---
source: An 等 - 2023 - Heterostructural Ni‐Ni0.2 Mo0.8 N Interface Engineering Boosts Alkaline Hydrog.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 53.895s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:36:37.845728Z
---

www.chemsuschem.org

# **Heterostructural Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N Interface Engineering Boosts Alkaline Hydrogen Electrocatalysis**

LuLu An,[a] Junhao Yang,[a] Jiang Zhu,[a] Chang Yang,[a] Xu [Zhao,](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7548-3022)\*[a] and Deli Wang\*[a]

Exploring efficient and low-cost bifunctional catalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) is highly desirable for the achievement of unitized regenerative fuel cells. Herein, a facile method to prepare hetero-interfacial Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets with tailored *d*-band for efficient alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis is presented. Mechanism studies indicate that interface engineering can downshift the *d*-band center of Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets due to the electron transfer from Ni to Ni0.2Mo0.8N, which weakens the binding strength of reaction intermediates, thereby boost-

ing the catalytic performance. Relative to pure Ni, Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets show a lower overpotential of 83 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and good stability during 2,000 cycles for HER. Meanwhile, Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets exhibit an improved exchange current density for HOR with a 10.2-fold enhancement in comparison with that of pure Ni. This work provides valuable insight into the reasonable design of efficient energy-related electrocatalysts based on the tailoring of *d*-band center by interface engineering.

# **Introduction**

Hydrogen is considered as an ideal energy carrier due to its clean and sustainable characteristics.[1] As the crucial processes for hydrogen generation and utilization, the electrochemical hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) under alkaline conditions have attracted much attentions due to the advantages of using platinum-groupmetal (PGM) free catalysts.[2] As the commercial catalysts for HER/HOR in alkaline electrolytes, Pt-based materials are severely limited to the industrial use due to the high cost and relatively sluggish kinetics in alkaline electrolytes with 2~3 orders of magnitude lowered value relative to that in acid solution.[3] Alternatively, nickel (Ni)-based materials have been considered as the most promising PGM-free candidates for HOR/HER in alkaline electrolytes.[4] However, pure Ni delivers inferior HOR/ HER activities owing to the relatively strong adsorption of hydrogen.[5] Accordingly, developing effective Ni-based hydrogen electrocatalysts with weakened hydrogen binding strength is desired.

To reduce the binding strength of hydrogen and enhance the catalytic activity, substantial efforts have been made in recent years.[6] For instance, the hydrogen binding energy of Ni could be regulated by the strong metal-support interaction between Ni nanoparticles and S-doped carbon supports, thus leading to the improved HOR catalytic activity.[7] Moreover, CoNiMo showed a lower hydrogen binding strength than that of pure Ni due to the alloy effect, which inducing a higher HOR activity about 20-fold enhancement in comparison with that of Ni.[8] In addition, hetero-interface engineering has been widely served as an effective strategy to optimize the binding strength of key reaction intermediates during electrocatalytic process and facilitate the catalytic reaction, which benefits from the modulated electronic structure of catalysts induced by charge transfer at the unique interface.[9] For example, Xie et al. reported that Ni3N/Co3N heterostructures showed excellent catalytic activity since the interfacial electron interaction could weaken hydrogen adsorption.[10] Similarly, Jiao et al. demonstrated that Co/Mo5N6 heterojunction showed extraordinary performance for hydrogen electrocatalytic reaction owing to the optimal hydrogen adsorption energy derived from interfacial electron redistribution.[11] Accordingly, constructing of hetero-interface engineering is expected to realize the development of high-efficiency bifunctional electrocatalysts for hydrogen-conversion.

Herein, we report the interfacial Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets with modulated *d*-band center for catalyzing HER and HOR in alkaline medium. The optimized Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets show significantly enhanced HER activity with a lower overpotential and decreased Tafel slope than that of pure Ni and Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets. Furthermore, the as-prepared Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanosheets show a higher exchange current density of 1.68 mAcm <sup>2</sup> than that of 0.15 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for pure Ni and an excellent longterm durability of 1,000 cycles for alkaline HOR. It is found that the enhanced HER and HOR performance can be attributed to the optimal adsorption strength of reaction intermediates caused by the downshift of *d*-band center. This work provides a

*Hubei Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry and Service Failure, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering*

*Huazhong University of Science and Technology*

*Wuhan, Hubei, 430074 (P. R. China)*

*E-mail: zhaoxu91@hust.edu.cn*

*wangdl81125@hust.edu.cn*

*This publication is part of a joint Special Collection of ChemSusChem* and *ChemistryOpen* including invited contributions to mark the 70th anniversary of Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) and the 40th anniversary of the School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering at HUST. Please visit [chemsuschem.org/collections](http://chemsuschem.org/collections) to view all contributions.

<sup>[</sup>a] *L. An, J. Yang, J. Zhu, C. Yang, Prof. X. Zhao, Prof. D. Wang Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage (Ministry of Education)*

reasonable strategy for the design of electrocatalysts for hydrogen electrocatalysis.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Typically, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets were synthesized by solvothermal treatment and subsequent annealing under ammonia atmosphere. The synthetic strategy is schematically illustrated in Figure 1a. Specifically, the precursors of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets were first prepared as the raw materials through a solvothermal method. [12] As shown in Figure S1, the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of the precursor shows a sheet-like structure. Then, the precursors were annealed in NH<sub>3</sub> atmosphere at 500 °C to obtain the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets. For comparison, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N with different composition and crystallinity were also obtained by changing the added amount of metal precursor and annealing temperatures (Figure S2). Pure Ni nanosheets were prepared by a similarly procedure without the addition of molybdate (Figure S3). Meanwhile, the Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N was obtained by the acid etching of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N (Figure S4). Figure 1b shows the SEM image of as-prepared Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N with an obvious sheet-like morphology. Meanwhile, the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets proves the sheet-like structure. The nanosheets were composed of small, interconnected nanoparticles, which can allow the effective electron transition (Figure 1c). Figure 1d shows the high-resolution TEM

(HRTEM) image of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets with a visually distinct phase interface. The lattice spacing of 2.0 Å and 2.5 Å can be typically indexed to the fringes of (111) facets of cubic Ni and (100) facets of hexagonal Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, respectively.<sup>[13]</sup> These results indicate the formation of a close-connected hetero-interface. The element composition and distribution were validated by the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectrum and elemental mapping. As shown in Figure 1e–i and Figure S5, the Ni, Mo and N elements are existence and homogeneously distribution throughout the whole nanosheets structure, suggesting the existence of high-density interface.

The structure of as-prepared Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets was characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Figure 2a shows the XRD patterns of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N, Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N and Ni nanosheets. The Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets exhibit both the characteristic peaks of pure Ni and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N phase. Specifically, the diffraction peaks located at 44.5°, 51.8° and 76.3° are attributed to the (111), (200), (220) facets of face-centered cubic nickel Ni (JCPD No.04-0850), [14] and the diffraction peaks at 32.2°, 36.5°, 49.4°, 65.6° and 75.1° are indexed to the (001), (100), (101), (110), (111) facets of hexagonal Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N (JCPD No.29-0931), [15] respectively. These results further confirm the coexistence of Ni and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N, which is consistent with that of HRTEM results. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was further performed to analyze the chemical states of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets. As shown in Figure 2b, the pure Ni

Figure 1. a) Illustration of the fabrication strategy of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets. b) SEM image, c) TEM image, d) HRTEM image, and elemental mapping of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets (e–i).

1.4 Downonded from https://chemistry-europe.onlineblary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cscs.202300218 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

Figure 2. a) XRD patterns of Ni, Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N and Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets. b) Ni 2p XPS spectra, c) Mo 3d XPS spectra and N 1s XPS spectra (d) of Ni, Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N and Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets.

nanosheets mainly exhibit two peaks at 852.5 eV for Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and 869.9 eV for Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> correspond to Ni<sup>0,[16]</sup> In comparison with pure Ni, the two peaks of Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> in Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N shift to higher binding energy, suggesting a modulated electronic structure of Ni. For the Mo 3d spectrum of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, two major peaks at the binding energies of 229.3 eV and 232.5 eV are attributed to  $Mo^{3+}$   $3d_{5/2}$  and  $Mo^{3+}$ 3d<sub>3/2</sub>, respectively (Figure 2c).<sup>[17]</sup> In addition, two pair peaks located at 230.2 eV and 233.7 eV, as well as 232.1 eV and 235.4 eV are assigned to the surface oxidation.[17,18] The N 1s spectrum of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N exhibits there peaks at 395.1 eV, 397.4 eV and 399.2 eV, which can be attributed to Mo 3p, N-Ni/ Mo and residual N-H bonds in ammonia gas, respectively (Figure 2d).[19] Notably, both Mo 3d and N 1s peaks in Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N show an obvious shift to lower energy relative to those of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, indicating the electron transfer from Ni to Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, which can tune the *d*-band structure of heterostructional Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets.

The electrocatalytic HER performance of Ni, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets was evaluated in 1 M KOH solution by using a standard three-electrode system and compared with that of pure Ni, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets and commercial Pt/C. The optimized Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets exhibit the lower onset potential and higher current density than that of pure Ni and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, suggesting that the construction of hetero-interface with moderate interface density and crystallinity can obviously improve the HER performance in alkaline solution (Figure 3a and Figure S6). As illustrated in Figure 3b and Figure S7, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets exhibit good HER activity with the overpotential of 83.0 mV at 10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup>, which is much lower

than that of 123.5 mV for Ni, 361.0 mV for Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and larger than that of 39 mV for commercial Pt/C, respectively. Moreover, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets show a higher HER mass activity of 44.47 mA mg $^{-1}$ <sub>cat</sub>. at 100 mV than that of 23.33 mA mg $^{-1}$ <sub>cat</sub>. for Ni. Besides, the faradic efficiency of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets is calculated to be 96.3% in 1M KOH (Figure S8). And Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N also shows a good HER performance in 0.1 M KOH solution (Figure S9). These results indicated that Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N is efficient for HER in alkaline solution. In addition, the Tafel slope of catalysts are related to the HER kinetics and rate determining step, which is helpful for the study of catalytic process. As show in Figure 3c and Figure S10, the Tafel slope of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N is as low as 70.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in comparison with that of 103.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for Ni, 115.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for pure Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and approaches to 43.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for commercial Pt/C, indicating an accelerated HER kinetics. Such a Tafel slope indicates a Volmer-Heyrovsky reaction mechanism.<sup>[20]</sup> Moreover, the HER performance of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets is even higher than most of the PGM-free HER catalysts (Table S1). To gain insight into the origin of HER activity, the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ) with cyclic voltammetry (CV) in the Faradaic region was measured to estimate the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA). As exhibited in Figure 3d and Figure S11, the calculated  $C_{dl}$  value of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N is 12.7 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of Ni (7.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). Such a higher  $C_{dl}$  value implies a larger electrochemical surface area and more exposed active sites, thereby enhancing the HER activity. Notably, the higher C<sub>dl</sub> of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets may be attributed to the loose and porous structure caused by the acid etching (Figure 3e, Figure S4 and S12). Meanwhile, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was

1.4 Downonded from https://chemistry-europe.onlineblary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cscs.202300218 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

Figure 3. a) HER polarization curves of Ni, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N with a scan speed of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in 1 M KOH solution. b) Comparison of overpotentials at  $-10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  for the as-prepared catalysts. c) Tafel slopes for the as-prepared catalysts. d) Charging current density differences as a function of scan rates for Ni, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets. e) Comparison of  $C_{d1}$  for the as-prepared catalysts. f) The Nyquist plots for Ni, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets. The inset shows the equivalent circuit diagram.

further used to analyze the kinetics of HER. As shown in Figure 3f, the Nyquist diagrams of all catalysts show obvious semicircles in the high-frequency region. Relative to  $\mathrm{Ni}_{0.2}\mathrm{Mo}_{0.8}\mathrm{N}$  and Ni nanosheets, Ni-Ni $_{0.2}\mathrm{Mo}_{0.8}\mathrm{N}$  nanosheets have the smaller radius. Meanwhile, the Nyquist plots were further analyzed and fitted to an electrical equivalent circuit diagram (inset of Figure 3f). The charge transfer resistances ( $R_{ct}$ ) of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}\mathrm{Mo}_{0.8}\mathrm{N}$ , Ni and Ni $_{0.2}\mathrm{Mo}_{0.8}\mathrm{N}$  are estimated to be 22.3  $\Omega$ , 79.5  $\Omega$  and 134.4  $\Omega$ , respectively. These results suggest the improved charge transfer kinetics after the formation of Ni and Ni $_{0.2}\mathrm{Mo}_{0.8}\mathrm{N}$  interfaces.

Stability is another important factor for advanced electrocatalysts. The HER stability of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N was further investigated by applying cyclic potential sweeps. Figure 4a shows the HER polarization curves of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets before and after the stability test. Obviously, the polarization curve of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets are almost unchanged after 2,000 potential cycles. Similarly good HER stability is also confirmed by the chronopotentiometry tests at higher current density on carbon paper (Figure S13). Meanwhile, the electro-

chemical active surface area of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets was studied after the cyclic potential sweeps to further understand the surface stability during catalytic process. As shown in Figure 4b and Figure S14, the  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets after HER stability test is 12.5 mF cm $^{-2}$ , which still retains 98% of the initial value. As such, the well-retained  $C_{\rm dl}$  value after the stability test further confirms the stability of catalytic active surface. Moreover, the XRD pattern and TEM image after stability test were also characterized to evaluate the structural stability of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets. As shown in Figure 4c&d, the Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N exhibits obvious characteristic peak of Ni and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N, as well as the maintained sheet-like structure. The above results indicate that Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N has excellent catalytic stability.

The development of bifunctional hydrogen electrocatalysts is conductive to the achievement of unitized regenerative fuel cells, which can work and switch between the water electrolyzer mode and fuel cell mode, thus realizing the reversible hydrogen generation and utilization. Accordingly, the HOR activity was further assessed in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytes by using

3.14, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinebitary.wiely.com/doi/10.1002/essc20230218 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/0/1205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensea

Figure 4. a) HER polarization curves of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N before and after potential sweeps of 2,000 cycles. b) Charging current density differences as a function of scan rates for Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N before and after the stability test for HER. c) Comparison of XRD patterns of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets before and after the HER test. d) TEM image of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets after HER stability test.

a three-electrode system with a scan rate of 2 mV s $^{-1}$ . As shown in Figure 5a and Figure S15, the anode currents of optimal Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets are significantly higher than that of Ni and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N, but lower than commercial Pt/C (Figure S16). At an overpotential of 50 mV, the apparent current density of Ni-

 $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  nanosheets reaches 1.41 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, while the current density of  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  and Ni is almost 0 and 0.17 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In addition, the  $Ni-Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  nanosheets show negligible anodic current in  $N_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytes, indicating the current could be originated from the hydrogen oxidation

Figure 5. a) HOR polarization curves of Ni, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N with a scan speed of 2 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. b) Polarization curves of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets at varied rotation speeds. The inset shows the Koutecky–Levich plot. c) Tafel plots of kinetic current densities. d) Micropolarization regions of Ni and Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets.

1.4 Downonded from https://chemistry-europe.onlineblary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cscs.202300218 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

Chemistry Europee European Chemical Societies Publishing

(Figure S17). These results indicate that the construction of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N heterostructures can effectively improve the catalytic performance of Ni-based catalysts. Figure 5b shows the polarization curves at different rotating rates from 400 rpm to 2500 rpm. Obviously, the current densities increase with the increase of rotating rates, which is attributed to the faster mass transport at the higher rotating rate. Moreover, a linear relationship between the inverse of current density at 50 mV and the square root of the rotating rates were plotted to understand the catalytic process. The calculated slope of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N is 4.76 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> (inset of Figure 5b), indicating a two-electron hydrogen oxidation process. To compare the HOR activity accurately, the mass activity  $(j_{k,m})$  of catalysts is obtained via normalizing kinetic current density  $(j_k)$  by the loading mass of catalysts. The  $j_k$  of catalysts for HOR is extracted from the Koutecky-Levich equation [Eq. (1)]. Accordingly, the mass activity of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets is calculated to be 9.15 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>cat.</sub> at 50 mV, which is 16.1 times higher than that of 0.57 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>cat.</sub> for pure Ni. To evaluate the intrinsic activity, the exchange current density  $(j_0)$  of as-prepared catalysts is obtained according to the Butler-Volmer equation [Eq. (2)]. As shown in Figure 5c and Figure S18, the  $j_0$  of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets is calculated to be 1.68 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of  $0.15 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  for Ni. Moreover, the  $i_0$  values are also extracted from the linear fitting of the micro-polarization regions of polarization curves [Eq. (3) and Figure 5d]. These two results are consistent with each other (Table S2). The above results further evidence the enhanced catalytic performance of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets due to the contraction of hetero-

Apart from catalytic activity for HOR, the catalytic stability was investigated to assess the application perspective. Figure 6a shows the polarization curves of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nano-

sheets before and after 1,000 cycles potential cycling at a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. The HOR current densities show a subtle change after 1,000 cycles potential cycling. Specifically, the current density at 50 mV and  $j_0$  only decreases 1% and 4%, respectively, suggesting the good catalytic stability of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets (Figure 6b and Figure S19). Figure 6c and 6d show the XRD patterns and SEM image of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets after HOR stability test. The Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets still remain the same component and sheet-like structure after HOR stability test (Figure 6c&d), further revealing the structural stability in catalytic process.

In view of the existence of CO impurity gas in hydrogen fuel, the CO tolerance of HOR catalysts is significantly important for the industrial application of hydrogen fuel cells. The HOR polarization curves of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets with and without the presence of 1,000 ppm CO were collected. For comparison, the polarization curve of commercial Pt/C catalysts were also conducted. As shown in Figure S20, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets exhibit a slight decrease of HOR current densities with the existence of 1,000 ppm CO. While the commercial Pt/C show a large attenuation of current densities at the same CO contamination. These results demonstrate that Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets have an excellent ability of CO tolerance.

To unveil the reason for the enhanced HER and HOR activities, the adsorption energy of key reaction intermediates was studied. The *d*-band structure was investigated by using the ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS). As shown in Figure 7a, the calculated values of valence band maximum are 3.45 eV for Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, 3.26 eV for Ni, and 2.76 eV for Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, respectively. These results indicate that the valence band of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N is shifted away from the Fermi level in comparison with that of Ni. Due to the valence electrons close to the Fermi level mainly affected the *d* states,<sup>[21]</sup> the *d*-band

Figure 6. a) Polarization curves of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets before and after 1,000 cycles. b) Comparison of current density at 50 mV and exchange current density of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets before and after the HOR test. c) Comparison of XRD patterns of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets before and after the HOR test. d) SEM image of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets after HOR test.

3, 14, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002essc.202300218 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/mems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Cereative Commons. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/mems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Cereative Commons. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/mems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Cereative Commons. Licenses are governed by the applicable Cereative Commons.

Figure 7. a) UPS valence band spectra of Ni,  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  and  $Ni-Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  nanosheets. b) Comparison of work function between Ni and  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ . c) Illustration of the enhanced mechanism for HER/HOR catalyzed by  $Ni-Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  heterostructures.

center of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N has also been downshifted from the Fermi level. Such a downshift of *d*-band center could weaken the adsorption strength of hydrogen intermediate on catalyst surface, thus boosting HER and HOR process. Furthermore, the secondary electron cut-off energy of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets is 18.28 eV, which is higher than that of 17.54 eV for Ni nanosheets. Accordingly, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets possess a smaller work function of 2.94 eV relative to 3.68 eV for Ni (Figure 7b), which could facilitate electron transfer and further accelerate the electrocatalytic reaction. Overall, these results confirm that the HER/HOR catalytic activities of Ni catalysts can be effectively improved by optimizing the adsorption strength of reaction intermediates via refining the *d*-band center through the construction of hetero-interface (Figure 7c).

## Conclusion

In summary, we successfully modulate the d-band center of Ni-based catalysts by the construction of hetero-interfacial Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets with improved catalytic performance for both alkaline HER and HOR. For HER, the Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets achieve a low overpotential of 83 mV at -10 mA cm $^{-2}$  and show good stability during 2,000 cycles. For HOR, the Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N nanosheets exhibit an exchange current density of 10.2-fold enhancement in comparison with that of pure Ni. Experimental results reveal that the construction of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N hetero-interface dowshifts the d-band center and thus weakens the binding strength of reaction intermediates, resulting in the elevated electrocatalytic performance for alkaline HER and HOR. This work provides a reasonable strategy for the design of efficient electrocatalysts via interface engineering.

## **Experimental Section**

#### Materials

Analytical grade of nickel (II) nitrate hexahydrate,  $Ni(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6 H_2O$ , sodium molybdate dihydrate,  $Na_2MoO_4 \cdot 2 H_2O$ , urea (CH<sub>4</sub>N<sub>2</sub>O), isopropyl alcohol (C<sub>3</sub>H<sub>8</sub>O) and potassium hydroxide (KOH) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd (Shanghai, China). All chemical reagents were analytical grade and used without any futher purification. Ultrapure water (18.2 M $\Omega$ ) was used in all the experiments.

#### Synthesis of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N heterostructures

The heterostructural Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanosheets were synthesized by method. Firstly, 2.0 mmol of hydrothermal-reduction  $Na_2MoO_4 \cdot 2H_2O_7$ , 2.0 mmol of  $Ni(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$  and 10 mmol urea were dissolved in 30 mL ultrapure water by stirring. Then, the solution was transferred to a Teflon autoclave and heated at 150 °C for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature, the green powder was obtained by washed with water and ethanol for several times and then dried in vacuum oven at 60°C. Secondly, the green powder was placed in a tubular furnace and annealed at 500 °C for 2 h under  $NH_3$  atmosphere with a heating rate of  $10\,^{\circ}\text{C}\,\text{min}^{-1}$ . The asprepared sample was named as Ni-Ni<sub>0.3</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, in which the molar ratio of Ni to Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N is calculated to be 2:1 according to the results of EDX and ICP. By changing the added molar amount of metal precursor, Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and Na<sub>2</sub>MoO<sub>4</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O to 1/3 and 3/1, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N with the Ni to Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N molar ratio of 1.6:1 and 2.5:1 is obtained. Meanwhile, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N with annealing temperatures of 450 °C and 550 °C were also prepared for comparison. In addition, pure Ni nanosheets were prepared by a similar procedure without the addition of molybdate. Ni<sub>0.7</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N was obtained by immersing Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N in 2M HCl for 3 h and washed with ultrapure water.

#### Characterization

Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected on the X-ray diffractometer (SmartLab SE, Rigaku) with Cu–K $\alpha$  radiation ( $\lambda$ = 0.1541 nm). SEM images were collected on a Nova NanoSEM 450 scanning electron microscope. TEM images were collected using a Hitachi H-7650 transmission electron microscope with 100 kV acceleration voltages. HRTEM, HAADF-STEM images and EDX mappings were obtained on F200x G2 filed-emission transmission electron microscope with 200 kV accelerating voltage. XPS spectra were obtained using an X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (K-alpha, Thermo Scientific) with a monochromatic Al K $\alpha$  X-ray source (h $\nu$ = 1486.6 eV). Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) spectra were measured on Thermo SCIENTIFIC ESCALAB Xi+ analyzer with He I light source (h $\nu$ = 21.22 eV).

#### **Electrochemical measurement**

All the electrochemical data were collected at CHI660E electrochemical workstation with a three-electrode system. A graphite rod and a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) were employed as the counter and reference electrode, respectively. To prepare working electrode, 5 mg of as-prepared catalysts and 5 mg of Vulcan XC-72 carbon were dissolved in 1 mL of isopropyl alcohol and 15  $\mu L$  of 5% Nafion solution by ultrasonication, and then the obtained ink was dropped onto the glassy carbon electrode with a loading of 0.32 mg cm $^{-2}$ . All the polarization curves were iR-corrected. In addition, all the HER and HOR tests were measured at 30 °C.

For HER test, the polarization curve was conducted in  $N_2$ -saturated 1.0 M KOH using linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at a speed of 1600 rpm. The long-term durability test was carried out by potential cycling for 2,000 cycles with a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. After that, a polarization curve at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> was recorded. The chronopotentiometry tests at -10 and -100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> were performed by using carbon paper with a mass loading of 1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm ell}$ ) was estimated by conducting cyclic voltammograms within the potential region of 0.20–0.30 V versus RHE at various scan rates from 10 to 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The charging current density differences ( $\Delta j = j_a - j_c$ ) were employed to plotted against the scan rates, where the slopes could be used to estimate the  $C_{\rm ell}$ .

For HOR test, the polarization curve was evaluated in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution by LSV between -0.05 to 0.15 V with a scan rate of 2 mVs<sup>-1</sup> at a speed of 1600 rpm. The accelerated durability tests were performed by potential cycling in the range of -0.05–0.1 V for 1,000 cycles with a scan rate of 100 mVs<sup>-1</sup>. After that, a polarization curve at a scan rate of 2 mVs<sup>-1</sup> was recorded. The  $j_k$  of catalysts for HOR was extracted from the Koutecky–Levich equation:

$$\frac{1}{j} = \frac{1}{j_k} + \frac{1}{j_d} = \frac{1}{j_k} + \frac{1}{\beta c_0 \omega^{1/2}}$$
 (1)

Here  $j_d$ ,  $j_k$  and j are diffusion current density, kinetic current density and measured current density, respectively;  $\beta$  represents to Levich constant;  $c_0$  refers to the solubility of  $H_2$ ;  $\omega$  is the rotating speed. The exchange current density  $(j_0)$  could be calculated from the Butler–Volmer equation:

$$j_{\nu} = j_{0} \left( e^{\frac{aF}{RT}\eta} - e^{\frac{-(1-a)F}{RT}\eta} \right) \tag{2}$$

where  $\alpha$ ,  $\eta$  and T refer to the charge transfer coefficient, overpotential and the operating temperature, respectively. F and R correspond to the Faraday constant and the universal gas constant,

respectively. In addition, the  $j_0$  of catalysts for HOR can also be extracted from micro-polarization region by linear fitting via the approximated Butler–Volmer equation as follow:

$$j_0 = \frac{j}{\eta} \frac{\mathsf{RT}}{\mathsf{F}} \tag{3}$$

where  $\eta$  and T refer to the overpotential and the operating temperature, respectively. F and R correspond to the Faraday constant and the universal gas constant, respectively.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22002046 and 22279036) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (2020kfyXJJS063). We thank the Open Research Fund of Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage (HUST), Ministry of Education (No. 2021JYBKF01). The authors thank the Analytical and Testing Center of HUST for allowing the use of its help and facilities for XRD and SEM.

#### **Conflict of Interests**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** electronic structure · interfaces · nickel-based heterostructures · hydrogen evolution reaction · hydrogen oxidation reaction

- [1] a) M. F. Lagadec, A. Grimaud, Nat. Mater. 2020, 19, 1140–1150; b) Q. M. Sun, N. Wang, Q. Xu, J. H. Yu, Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, e2001818; c) Y. Li, X. Y. Song, G. Zhang, L. Wang, Y. Liu, W. H. Chen, L. Chen, ChemSusChem 2022, 15, e202200901; d) J. Xu, X. Ding, Y. L. Gong, G. L. He, T. Hu, Energy Storage Sci. Technol. 2022, 11, 2374–2385.
- [2] a) V. R. Stamenkovic, D. Strmcnik, P. P. Lopes, N. M. Markovic, Nat. Mater.
  2016, 16, 57–69; b) X. Zhao, X. Y. Li, D. D. Xiao, M. X. Gong, L. L. An, P. F. Gao, J. L. Yang, D. L. Wang, Appl. Catal. B 2021, 295, 120280; c) L. L. An, X. Zhao, T. H. Zhao, D. L. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2021, 14, 2620–2638; d) S. Grau, M. Schilling, D. Moonshiram, J. B. Buchholz, S. Luber, C. G. Surinach, ChemSusChem 2020, 10, 2745–2752.
- [3] a) Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 52–65; b) Y. M. Zhao, X. W. Wang, Z. Li, P. P. Zhao, C. L. Tao, G. Z. Cheng, W. Luo, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2021, 33, 1065–1069; c) Z. H. Zhuang, W. Chen, J. Electrochem. 2021, 27, 125–143; d) E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 6665–6690.
- [4] a) E. S. Davydova, F. D. Speck, M. T. Y. Paul, D. R. Dekel, S. Cherevko, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 6837–6845; b) M. Wang, H. Yang, J. N. Shi, Y. F. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. G. Wang, S. J. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhao, T. Cheng, W. Zhao, Y. G. Li, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 5771–5777; Angew. Chem. 2021, 133, 5835–5841; c) F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 14179–14183; Angew. Chem. 2019, 131,

- 14317–14321; d) S. H. Lu, X. B. He, F. X. Yin, G. R. Li, *J. Electrochem.* **2020**, *26*, 136–147.
- [5] a) E. Davydova, J. Zaffran, K. Dhaka, M. Toroker, D. Dekel, Catal. 2018, 8, 454; b) Y. B. Li, Z. Li, H. J. Cong, C. Y. Yang, G. Z. Cheng, W. Luo, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2022, 10, 3682–3689; c) Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, Nat. Commun. 2016, 7, 10141; d) J. Wang, X. Dong, J. Liu, W. Z. Li, L. K. Rolling, J. P. Xiao, L. H. Jiang, ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 7422–7428; e) W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y. C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 10797–10801; Angew. Chem. 2020, 132, 10889–10893.
- [6] a) X. Zhao, X. Y. Li, L. L. An, K. Iputera, J. Zhu, P. F. Gao, R. S. Liu, Z. M. Peng, J. L. Yang, D. L. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2022, 15, 1234–1242;
  b) X. Zhao, X. Y. Li, L. L. An, L. R. Zheng, J. L. Yang, D. L. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202206588; Angew. Chem. 2022, 134, e202206588; c) C. Sun, P. C. Zhao, Y. Q. Yang, Z. Li, W. C. Sheng, ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 11830–11837; d) Y. N. Men, X. Z. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. X. Ge, S. F. Jia, J. B. Wang, G. Z. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. L. Chen, W. Luo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 12661–12672; e) F. Z. Song, T. Zhang, Y. Q. Qian, J. Shaw, A. T. Chen, G. G. Chen, Y. J. Sun, Y. Rao, Mater. Today Energy 2021, 22, 100846; f) T. Zhang, S. Debow, F. Z. Song, Y. Q. Qian, W. R. Creasy, B. G. Delacy, Y. Rao, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2021, 12, 11361.
- [7] F. L. Yang, X. Biao, Y. M. Zhao, X. W. Wang, G. Z. Cheng, G. Z. Cheng, W. Luo, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 10936–10941.
- [8] W. Sheng, A. P. Bivens, M. Myint, Z. Zhuang, R. V. Forest, Q Fang, J. G. Chen, Y. S. Yan, Energy Environ. Sci. 2014, 7, 1719–1724.
- a) S. J. Shen, Z. P. Wang, Z. P. Lin, K. Song, Q. H. Zhang, F. Q. Meng, L. Gu, W. W. Zhong, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, 2110631; b) L. Dai, Z. N. Chen, L. X. Li, P. Q. Yin, Z. Q. Liu, H. Zhang, Adv. Mater. 2022, 32, 1906915; c) J. T. Ren, X. M. Wu, T. Liu, L. Chen, R. Hao, Y. J. Song, Y. P. Liu, Z. Y. Yuan, Appl. Cat. B: Environ. 2022, 317, 121786; d) F. Z. Song, T. Zhang, D. X. Zhou, P. F. Sun, Z. Lu, H. T. Bian, J. S. Dang, H. Gao, Y. Q. Qian, W. Li, N. Jiang, H. Dummer, J. G. Shaw, S. T. Chen, G. G. Chen, Y. J. Sun, Y. Rao, ACS Mater. Lett. 2022, 4, 967–977.
- [10] Q. Z. Qian, J. H. Zhang, J. M. Li, Y. P. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Y. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Q. Zhang, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 5984–5993; Angew. Chem. 2021, 133, 6049–6058.

- [11] F. Lin, Z. H. Dong, Y. H. Yao, L. Yang, F. Fang, L. F. Jiao, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 10, 2002176.
- [12] S. Deng, X. Liu, X. Guo, T. Zhao, Y. Lu, J. Cheng, K. Chen, T. Shen, Y. Zhu, D. Wang, J. Energy Chem. 2021, 54, 202–207.
- [13] a) Y. Zhu, J. H. Zhang, Q. Z. Qian, Y. P. Li, Z. Y. Li, Y. Liu, C. Xiao, G. Q. Zhang, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202113082; Angew. Chem. 2022, 134, e202113082; b) B. Zhang, L. S. Zhang, Q. Y. Tan, J. S. Wang, J. Liu, H. Z. Wan, Energy Environ. Sci. 2020, 13, 3007.
- [14] a) C. Y. Wen, T. J. Zhu, X. Y. Li, H. F. Li, X. Q. Huang, G. B. Sun, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2020, 31, 1000–1003; b) H. M. Sun, Z. H. Yan, C. Y. Tian, C. Li, X. Feng, R. Huang, Y. H. Lan, J. Chen, C. P. Li, Z. H. Zhang, M. Du, Nat. Commun. 2022, 13, 3857.
- [15] P. Y. Wang, J. Bai, B. C. Zhao, H. Y. Ma, Q. Y. Li, X. B. Zhu, Y. P. Sun, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2022, 14, 38875–38886.
- [16] S. Y. Xiao, Z. Y. Meng, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 1994, 90, 2591–2595.
- [17] Z. H. Li, A. P. Wu, Y. Xie, H. J. Yan, D. X. Wang, S. Y. Wang, C. X. Jin, L. Wang, C. G. Tian, *Electrochim. Acta* 2022, 403, 139702.
- [18] W. Hua, H. H. Sun, H. Y. Liu, Y. Y. Li, J. G. Wang, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2021, 540, 148407.
- [19] a) L. Zhao, C. C. Hong, L. X. Lin, H. P. Wu, Y. W. Sun, X. B. Zhang, A. P. Liu, Carbon 2017, 116, 223–231; b) Y. C. Huang, J. Hu, H. X. Xu, W. Bian, J. X. Ge, D. J. Zang, D. J. Cheng, Y. K. Lv, C. Zhang, J. Gu, Y. G. Wei, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1800789; c) F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, P. Liao, Y. Sun, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4531.
- [20] S. Gupta, N. Patel, A. Miotello, D. C. Kothari, J. Power Sources 2015, 279, 620–625.
- [21] Z. Y. Chen, Y. Song, J. Y. Cai, X. S. Zheng, D. D. Han, Y. S. Wu, Y. P. Zang, S. W. Niu, Y. Liu, J. F. Zhu, X. J. Liu, G. M. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 2018, *57*, 5076–5080; *Angew. Chem.* 2018, *130*, 5170–5174.

Manuscript received: February 13, 2023 Revised manuscript received: April 4, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: April 12, 2023 Version of record online: June 14, 2023