---
source: Cheng 等 - 2024 - Optimizing Hydrogen and Hydroxyl Adsorption over RuWO2.9 MetalMetalloid Heterostructure.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 74.886s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:43:18.903892Z
---

# **Optimizing Hydrogen and Hydroxyl Adsorption over Ru/WO2.9 Metal/Metalloid Heterostructure Electrocatalysts for Highly Efficient and Stable Hydrogen Oxidation Reactions in Alkaline Media**

*Zhiyu Cheng, Yang Yang, Peichen Wang, Pengcheng Wang, Jiahe Yang, Dongdong Wang, and Qianwang Chen\**

**The development of high-performance, stable and platinum-free electrocatalysts for the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline media is crucial for the commercial application of anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs). Ruthenium, as an emerging HOR electrocatalyst with a price advantage over platinum, still needs to solve the problems of low intrinsic activity and easy oxidation. Herein, Ru nanoparticles are anchored on the oxygen-vacancy-rich metalloid WO2.9 by interfacial engineering to create abundant and efficient Ru and WO2.9 interfacial active sites for accelerated HOR in alkaline media. Ru/WO2.9/C displays excellent catalytic activity with mass activity (8.29 A mgNM<sup>−</sup>1) and specific activity (1.32 mA cmNM<sup>−</sup>2), which are 2.5/3.3 and 21.8/8.3 times that of PtRu/C and Pt/C, respectively. Moreover, Ru/WO2.9/C exhibits excellent CO tolerance and operational stability. Experimental and theoretical studies reveal that the improved charge transfer from Ru to WO2.9 in the metal/metalloid heterostructure significantly tune the electronic structure of Ru sites and optimize the hydrogen binding energy (HBE) of Ru. While, WO2.9 provides abundant hydroxyl adsorption sites. Therefore, the equilibrium adsorption of hydrogen and hydroxyl at the interface of Ru/WO2.9 will be realized, and the oxidation of metal Ru would be avoided, thereby achieving excellent HOR activity and durability.**

#### **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) technology has been rapidly developed in commercial applications,

Z. Cheng, Y. Yang, P. Wang, P. Wang, J. Yang, D. Wang, Q. Chen Hefei National Research Center for Physical Sciences at the Microscale and Department of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China E-mail: [cqw@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:cqw@ustc.edu.cn)

Q. Chen The High Magnetic Field Laboratory Hefei Institutes of Physical Science Chinese Academy of Sciences Hefei 230031, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202307780>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202307780**

through the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) at the anode and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) at the cathode to convert chemical energy into electrical energy with zero emissions.[\[1\]](#page-7-0) However, the application of PEMFCs is severely limited by the scarcity and high cost of platinum (Pt)-based catalysts, since the slow oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) heavily relies on Pt-based catalysts.[\[2\]](#page-7-0) Anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) are considered as potential alternatives to PEM-FCs due to the availability of non-noble metal electrocatalysts for the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction.[[3\]](#page-7-0) The HOR kinetic activity of Pt under alkaline conditions is very slow and much lower than that under acidic conditions, which leads to higher loading of platinum in AEM-FCs to achieve the same current density at the anode as under acidic conditions, thus leads to high costs.[\[4\]](#page-7-0) Although the total platinum content in fuel cell stacks has decreased significantly in the past decade, the high price of Pt has been hindering the commercial application of fuel cells.[\[5\]](#page-7-0)

Therefore, it is imminent to explore and develop highperformance and low-cost HOR catalysts in alkaline media. Although great progress has been made in non-noble metal HOR catalysts in alkaline media in the past decade, the HOR kinetic activity of non-noble metals is still far behind that of noble metal (NM).[\[6\]](#page-7-0) Some non-platinum HOR catalysts have been reported, such as Rh-based, Pd-based and Ir-based catalysts, which also exhibit comparable HOR activity to Pt/C.[\[7\]](#page-7-0) Ruthenium is a good hydrogen evolution catalyst and has a good adsorption capacity for hydrogen, while the price is much lower than that of Pt, Rh, Pd, and Ir, which makes Ru gradually become a candidate for HOR catalyst in alkaline media.[\[8\]](#page-7-0) The stronger hydrogen bonding and weak hydroxyl adsorption on the Pt surface in alkaline media are considered to be the main reasons for the slow kinetics of HOR.[\[9\]](#page-7-0) Recently, the HOR kinetic activity of catalysts was enhanced by adding a second component in Pt to tune HBE and promote hydroxyl adsorption. These enhancements were

**Scheme 1.** The 3D model of Ru/WO2.9 metal/metalloid nanoparticles heterostructure as an electrocatalyst towards hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline media.

attributed to the reaction of Had with OHad to form H2O on the catalyst surface, thereby accelerating Had desorption.[\[10\]](#page-7-0) PtRu/C catalysts with different Pt:Ru atomic ratios exhibit excellent HOR activity, but the cost of PtRu/C catalysts is still high because the main component of PtRu/C catalysts is Pt, and its CO tolerance is extremely poor. However, the intrinsic activity and stability of Ru are poor, which is attributed to the strong oxophilicity of Ru, which preferentially forms Ru-OHad at a relatively positive anodic potential, resulting in low activity, poor stability, and weak CO tolerance.[\[11\]](#page-7-0) Therefore, it is crucial to optimize the balance between Had and OHad active sites on the surface of HOR catalysts in alkaline media.[\[12\]](#page-7-0) Tungsten oxide has a tendency to form oxygen vacancies that leads to filling of the d-band and give rise to occupied gap states. These occupied states push the Fermi level very close to the conduction band, which enables tungsten oxide to accept electrons.[\[13\]](#page-7-0) Herein, metalloid WO2.9 was chosen as the carrier for Ru to construct Ru/WO2.9 heterostructure. Through interface interactions, the transfer of electrons from Ru to the WO2.9 substrate induces a downward shift of the d band center of Ru, thus weakening the HBE of Ru. Therefore, it becomes easier for Ru to absorb H. While, the abundance of oxygen vacancies in WO2.9 can provide sufficient adsorption sites for hydroxyl.[\[14\]](#page-7-0) Hence, achieving balanced adsorption of hydrogen and hydroxyl groups at the interface and synergistically accelerating the slow HOR kinetics (**Scheme 1**). Ru/WO2.9/C was prepared by pyrolysis of MOFs and subsequent acid treatment. During heat-treating the MOF in an inert atmosphere, the organic ligands will form graphene-like carbon during heat treatment, so that the nanoparticles of Ru is directly loaded on graphene-like carbon.[\[15\]](#page-7-0)

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The structure of NENU-3 is constructed by alternately connecting metal ions with 1,3,5-phenyltricarboxylic acid, in which the copper coordinated with water and glutamic acid and the phosphotungstic acid molecules are accommodated.[\[16\]](#page-7-0) We modified NENU-3 at room temperature and prepared Ru-modified NENU-3 precursors. The morphology of the synthesized Rumodified NENU-3 was characterized by scanning electron microscope (SEM), which maintained the octahedron shape of NENU-3 (Figure S1 and S2, Supporting Information). X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis showed that Ru-modified NENU-3 had a similar structure to NENU-3 (Figure S3, Supporting Information), indicating that the introduction of Ru nodes did not alter the skeletal structure of NENU-3 and was consistent with the XRD results of NENU-3 previously reported.[\[17\]](#page-7-0) Stable intermediate products were obtained by heat treatment of Ru modified NENU-3 in an inert atmosphere. According to the thermogravimetric analysis results (Figure S4, Supporting Information), the heat treatment temperature of the Ru modified NENU-3 is set to 600 °C. A series of control samples were also prepared under the same synthesis conditions followed by a thermal anneal at 500 and 700 °C, respectively. Subsequently, the heattreated sample was subjected to acid treatment and secondary annealing to obtain the final product Ru/WO2.9/C. The morphology of the synthesized Ru/WO2.9/C was characterized by SEM, showing a porous structure (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The N2 adsorption/desorption experiment was adopted and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller analysis showed that Ru/WO2.9/C has a type II isotherm showing a relatively high specific surface area of 97.98 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S6, Supporting Information). In addition, the pore size distribution curve of Ru/WO2.9/C shows that the pore size width of the mesopores is mainly distributed ≈2–3 nm (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The rich pore structure of Ru/WO2.9/C provides channels for H2 diffusion, and the large specific surface area provides more active site for HOR, which benefits from special acid treatment process. The high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image and elemental mapping (**Figure 1**[a–e\)](#page-2-0) indicate that Ru, W, and O elements are uniformly dispersed on the carbon substrate. High-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) images clearly display the interface between Ru

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. a-e) HAADF-STEM image and maps of elemental Ru (b), W (c), O (d), and C (e) in Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C. f,g) HRTEM images of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C.

and WO<sub>2.9</sub>, marked with black dotted lines, with resolved lattice stripes of Ru (002) and WO<sub>2.9</sub> (110) (Figure 1f,g; Figure S8, Supporting Information). The interaction between metal nanoparticles and the carrier will cause the nanoparticles to produce lattice strain,[18] thereby affecting the interplanar spacing of Ru and WO<sub>2.9</sub> slightly larger than the standard value. The XRD pattern of the catalyst further (Figure S9, Supporting Information) exhibits typical diffraction peaks of Ru (JCPDS card #06-0663) and WO<sub>2.9</sub> phase (JCPDS card #18-1417), respectively. For better comparison, Ru/C was prepared using a similar method and characterized by HRTEM. It is found that the Ru nanoparticles in Ru/C were also loaded on graphene-like carbon (Figure S10-S12, Supporting Information). The STEM-EDS (energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy) mapping results of Ru/C confirm the coexistence of Ru and C in the entire sample (Figure \$13, Supporting Information). We also performed Raman spectroscopy analysis on Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C and Ru/C. Two main peaks and broad peaks were observed in both Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C and Ru/C, which are characteristic of graphene (Figure S14, Supporting Information).[19] This further proves that there are similar graphene-like carbons in both  $Ru/WO_{29}/C$  and Ru/C.

To verify the abundant oxygen vacancies in Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C, we performed sophisticated physical characterization of the catalyst. Raman spectroscopy is an effective method to study the molecular structure of the surface, so it is utilized to examine the interaction of the surface structure with oxygen vacancies. As shown in **Figure 2a**, the stretching vibration of the O—W—O bond occurs at  $\approx$ 807 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and the bending vibration peak of the O—W—O bond of WO<sub>3</sub> is located at  $\approx$ 273 cm<sup>-1</sup>. [20] By comparing the Raman spectra of WO<sub>2.9</sub> and WO<sub>3</sub>, it can be seen that the half-peak width of WO<sub>2.9</sub> relative to WO<sub>3</sub> is significantly broadened, which indicates that there are various defect levels in the band structure of WO<sub>2.9</sub>, and also indicates that WO<sub>2.9</sub> possesses abundant oxygen vacancies. [21] Meanwhile, most of the Raman characteristic peaks

of WO<sub>2.9</sub> showed a slight blue shift, indicating the change of the oxidation state of W from W<sup>6+</sup> to W<sup>5+</sup>.[22] The chemical state of W was analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As shown in, Figure S15 (Supporting Information), The W4f XPS spectrum of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C shows two peaks at 35.84 eV and 37.98 eV, which correspond well to W4  $f_{2/7}$  and W  $4f_{2/5}$  of W(VI), respectively.<sup>[23]</sup> Furthermore, two deconvoluted peaks at 34.73 eV and 36.87 eV can be assigned to W(V). [24] However, for pure WO<sub>3</sub>, only two peaks belonging to W<sup>6+</sup> were observed (Figure S16, Supporting Information). This indicates that there are abundant oxygen vacancies in Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C.<sup>[25]</sup> The presence of W<sup>5+</sup> ions result in a high concentration of oxygen vacancies in the tungsten oxide lattice, which can also be expressed in the UV-vis absorption spectrum of Ru/WO<sub>2,9</sub>/C. As shown in, Figure S17 (Supporting Information), Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C exhibits strong absorption from the visible region to the near infrared region, which is a manifestation of the local surface plasmon resonance caused by the oxygen vacancy induced d-orbital free electrons.[26] Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) tests can sensitively and directly detect hypoxia in materials, and can also determine free radicals or other paramagnetic centers by the value of the g-factor produced under different conditions. As shown in Figure 2b, it is found that  $Ru/WO_{2.9}/C$  has an obvious symmetric peak  $\approx$ g  $\approx$ 2.003, which is a typical oxygen vacancy peak, but does not exist in pure WO<sub>3</sub>, which further proves that there are abundant oxygen vacancies in Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C.<sup>[27]</sup> Figure S18 (Supporting Information) presents the O K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C and WO<sub>3</sub>, the origin of the first peak is related to the unoccupied state at the bottom of the conduction band. The first peak in the O K-edge XANES spectra of tungsten oxide originates from the strong hybridization between O 2p and W 5d orbitals, so any change in the first peak reflects a change in W 5d occupancy, which is related to oxygen vacancies. [28] The intensity of the first peak in Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C is lower than that in WO<sub>3</sub>.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) The Raman spectra of Ru/WO2.9/C and WO3. b) EPR spectra of Ru/WO2.9/C and WO3. c) W L3-edge XANES spectra for W powder, Ru/WO2.9/C and WO3. d) Fourier transform of the W L3-edge EXAFS signals of W powder, Ru/WO2.9/C and WO3. e) Ru K-edge XANES spectra for Ru foil, Ru/C, Ru/WO2.9/C and RuO2. f) Fourier transform of the Ru K-edge EXAFS signals of Ru foil, Ru/C, Ru/WO2.9/C and RuO2.

X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) spectroscopy is a powerful tool for studying the local structure of specific elements. In Figure 2c, the normalized XANES curve of the W L3-edge shows that the white line intensity of Ru/WO2.9/C is higher than that of W powder and slightly lower than that of WO3. This shows that the average oxidation state of W in Ru/WO2.9/C is lower than that of WO3, proving the existence of oxygen vacancies in Ru/WO2.9/C. As shown in Figure 2d, the W L3-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra were obtained by Fourier transform (FT) from the W L3-edge XANES spectra. Obviously, Ru/WO2.9/C has a lower W─O bond peak intensity and longer W─O bond compared with WO3, which indicates that Ru/WO2.9/C has more oxygen vacancies[\[29\]](#page-8-0) The W L3-edge XAFS spectra and O K-edge XANES spectra show the degradation of the W 5d state in Ru/WO2.9/C, also suggesting more oxygen vacancies compared with WO3. [\[30\]](#page-8-0)

XPS was measured (Figure S19, Supporting Information) to study the interaction at the heterojunction interface. The Ru 3p peak binding energy of Ru/WO2.9/C (Ru 3p3/2: 462.8 eV, Ru 3p1/2:485.2 eV) shifted to a higher energy than that of Ru/C (Ru 3p3/2: 462.3 eV, Ru 3p1/2:484.7 eV), which indicates that electrons are removed from the Ru d band. The Ru/WO2.9/C catalyst could show better HOR kinetics because the center of the Ru d band in Ru/WO2.9/C moves downward, making the adsorption of hydrogen on the catalyst surface weaker.[\[31\]](#page-8-0) In order to further characterize the electronic valence state and coordination structure of the catalysts, the Ru components in the materials were analyzed by XAFSspectra. As shown in Figure 2e, the intensity of the Ru K-edge white line in Ru/WO2.9/C shifts towards higher energy relative to Ru foil and Ru/C, and the valence state of Ru increases, further demonstrating that the Ru in Ru/WO2.9/C tends to lose electrons, which is consistent with the XPS results. This interfacial electron transfer moves the d-band of Ru away from the Fermi level and weakens the HBE of Ru.[\[32\]](#page-8-0) The Fourier transform-extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra in Figure 2f shows an excellent signal-to-noise ratio. The results from R space show both Ru/WO2.9/C and Ru/C have a small amount of Ru-O coordination due to the surface of Ru nanoparticles being inevitably oxidized upon exposure to air.[\[33\]](#page-8-0) The Ru-Ru bond in Ru/WO2.9/C is shorter than that in Ru/C and Ru foil, and the shorter Ru-Ru bond in Ru/WO2.9/C further confirms the strong interaction between Ru and WO2.9. [\[18a\]](#page-7-0)

All electrochemical tests of the catalysts were performed with a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in a standard three-electrode system. The HOR activity of all catalysts was evaluated by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. As shown in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-4-0) the anodic current of Ru/WO2.9/C nanocatalyst increased sharply with increasing potential, and the Ru/WO2.9/C nanocatalyst exhibited the highest HOR activity compared with Ru/C, Pt/C, and PtRu/C. WO3 has almost no HOR activity. We heat-treated Ru modified NENU-3 at 500 °C, 600 °C, and 700 °C respectively. It is found that the catalyst prepared at 600 °C showed the best activity (Figure S20–S22, Supporting Information). Ru-modified

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) HOR polarization curves of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C, PtRu/C, Pt/C, Ru/C and WO<sub>3</sub> in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm. b) Polarization curves of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C at different rotation rates. Inset: The Koutecky-Levich plot of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C at an overpotential of 25 mV versus RHE. c) Representative HOR Tafel plots of kinetic current density for Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C, PtRu/C, Pt/C and Ru/C. d) The exchange current densities  $(j_{0,s})$  and the mass activities  $(j_{k,m})$  (at 50 mV) of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C, PtRu/C, Pt/C and Ru/C.

NENU-3 can be fully pyrolyzed at 600 °C, generating a sample with low resistance and small grain size. The material has rich Ru and WO<sub>2.9</sub> interfaces that can effectively promote the HOR. In order to study the effect of different ruthenium contents on catalytic activity, we added 20 mg, 30 mg, and 40 mg of RuCl<sub>3</sub> during the synthesis of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C. We performed ICP-AES analysis to prove our successful control of the Ru content (Table S1, Supporting Information). XRD analysis shows that the three catalysts with different Ru contents all exhibit the structure of Ru and WO<sub>2.9</sub> (Figure S23, Supporting Information). When 30 mg of RuCl<sub>3</sub> was added, Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C exhibited the best HOR activity due to its lower work function (Figure S24 and S25, Supporting Information). With a low work function, electrons are more easily transferred in the catalyst, leading to better catalytic activity,[34] which is consistent with our HOR activity test results. Subsequently, to verify that the anodic current in the LSV curves originated from HOR, the LSV curves of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH were taken as a comparison. The anodic current of  $Ru/WO_{2.9}/C$  in  $N_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH is negligible over the entire reaction potential range, which confirms that the anodic current indeed originates from the oxidation of H<sub>2</sub> (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Then the HOR kinetic parameters of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C nanocatalyst on RDE were studied. As shown in Figure 3b, we tested the LSV curves of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C at different rotational speeds varying from 2500 to 400 rpm, and the current density increased with the increase of rotational speed, which was due to faster mass transfer of H2 at high rotational speeds.

At an overpotential of 25 mV, the Koutecky-Levich plot of the  $Ru/WO_{2.9}/C$  nanocatalyst has a slope of 4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>, showing a linear relationship between the inverse of the total current density and the square root of the rotation rate, which is in line with the theoretical value for the two-electron HOR process. [6b,35] To quantitatively compare the HOR activities of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C with PtRu/C, Pt/C and Ru/C, we calculated the mass activity and specific activity of the catalysts based on their noble metal loading and electrochemical surface area (ECSA), respectively. Figure 3c shows the kinetic current density  $(j_k)$  versus potential for the catalysts as a logarithmic function. Among all catalysts, Ru/WO<sub>2,9</sub>/C exhibited the highest kinetic current density and was much higher than PtRu/C, Pt/C and Ru/C. The noble metal mass-normalized kinetic current densities  $(j_{k,m})$  at  $50\,mV$  have been calculated to be 8.29 A  $mg_{NM}^{~-1}$  , 3.29 A  $mg_{NM}^{~-1}$  , 0.38 A  $mg_{NM}^{~-1}$  and 0.93 A  $mg_{NM}^{~-1}$  for Ru/WO $_{2.9}/C$ , PtRu/C, Pt/C and Ru/C, respectively (Table S2 and S3, Supporting Information), and the HOR mass activity of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C is  $\approx 2.5$ times that of PtRu/C, 21.8 times that of Pt/C and 8.9 times that of Ru/C (Figure 3d). To evaluate the ECSA values of the catalysts, we used copper underpotential deposition (Cu-UPD) stripping voltammetry to further elucidate their intrinsic activity (Figure S27, ECSA values).[36] The exchange change densities  $(j_0)$  of the catalysts were obtained by linear fitting of the micropolarized regions (Figure S28, Supporting Information). [9a,37] To compare the intrinsic activity of each electrocatalyst,  $j_0$  was normalized by ECSA to obtain  $j_{0.s}$ , the HOR specific activity of

16136829, 2024, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/sml1.20207780 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [0701/2026]. See the

www.advancedsciencenews.com

 $Ru/WO_{2.9}/C$  (1.32 mA cm<sub>NM</sub><sup>-2</sup>) was  $\approx$ 3.3 times that of PtRu/C (0.40 mA cm $_{\rm NM}^{-2}$ ), 8.3 times that of Pt/C (0.16 mA cm $_{\rm NM}^{-2}$ ) and 2.1 times that of Ru/C (0.62 mA cm $_{\rm NM}^{-2}$ ) (Figure 3d; Table S3, Supporting Information), respectively. The mass activity and specific activity of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C are superior to most of the reported noble metal-based HOR catalysts (Table S4, Supporting Information). Because of the excellent HOR performance of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C on RDE, we further evaluated its activity in AEM-FCs (Figure S29, Supporting Information). We used Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C  $(0.15 \text{ mg}_{NM} \text{ cm}^{-2})$  as the anode and Pt/C  $(0.15 \text{ mg}_{NM} \text{ cm}^{-2})$  as the cathode of the membrane electrode assembly (MEA). A hydroxide exchange membrane (MTCP-50 membrane, 25 µm) was chosen for AEMFC. The AEMFCs with Ru/WO29/C as an anode achieved a peak power density (PPD) of 1.19 W cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.9 A cm<sup>-2</sup> under H<sub>2</sub>-O<sub>2</sub> operating conditions with a low noble metal loading of 0.15 mg<sub>NM</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> and a low back pressure of 0.1 MPa. This is far superior to Pt/C (0.74 W cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.7 A cm<sup>-2</sup>) with the same noble metal loading under the same test conditions. The utilization of noble metals in fuel cells reached 3970 mW mg<sup>-1</sup>, which is better than most reported HOR catalysts. (Table S5, Supporting Information). It is worth noting that the performance of AEMFCs is not only depended on the HOR activity of the catalyst but also related to the thickness of the hydroxide exchange membrane and the preparation process of the MEA.[38] It is known that membranes with higher ionic conductivity and smaller thickness (< 20 µm) lead to high power densities. It is reasonable to infer that fabricating MEAs with thinner membranes coated with our catalyst could achieve superior AEMFC performance. The activity of the catalyst is very important, and the electrochemical and operational stability of the catalyst is another outstanding issue faced by fuel cell applications. We loaded the catalyst on a RDE and applied chronoamperometry to evaluate the stability of the catalyst. After 10 hours of stability testing, Ru/WO29/C still maintained 92.4% of the HOR activity, while Ru/C only retained 37.3% of the HOR activity (Figure \$30, Supporting Information). This further proves that WO<sub>2.9</sub> is beneficial for improving the stability of the HOR of Ru nanoparticles. After the stability test,  $Ru/WO_{2.9}/C$  maintains a similar morphology and structure as before the stability test (Figure S31 and S32, Supporting Information). Currently, CO impurity is unavoidable in industrial hydrogen production. In fuel cell applications, noble metal catalysts at the anode are easily poisoned by CO present in hydrogen fuel.<sup>[11,39]</sup> This poisoning originates from the fact that CO tends to adsorb on the active sites of noble metals, thereby hindering the sites for hydrogen adsorption and dissociation. [6b] To verify the CO tolerance of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C, we loaded the catalyst on the RDE under an atmosphere in the presence of 1000 ppm CO, and applied chronoamperometry to evaluate the CO tolerance of the catalyst at a voltage of 0.1 V. As shown in, Figure \$33 (Supporting Information), the activity of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C only decreased by 9.5% after 2000 s of continuous operation. In contrast, PtRu/C lost 79.3% of its activity under the same conditions, and the Pt/C catalyst was almost completely deactivated after running for ≈1700 s. Figure \$34 (Supporting Information) shows the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C and Ru/C in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. The peak ≈0.1 V in the CV curve is related to the stripping process of underpotentially deposited hydrogen and the oxidation of Ru, and its peak potential is linearly related to HBE.[4b] The

lower peak potential of Ru/WO29/C indicates that Ru/WO29/C has weaker HBE, which further proves that the introduction of WO29 weakens Ru HBE. Notably, OHBE is currently also considered as an activity descriptor for HOR catalysts.<sup>[40]</sup> Considering that CO can be specifically adsorbed on the surface of metal catalysts, we used CO stripping experiments to study the binding ability of hydroxyl on the catalyst surface.[41] The CO stripping experiment was adopted because OH<sub>ad</sub> can remove CO<sub>ad</sub>, and the CO stripping potential has a direct relationship with the hydroxyl adsorption strength.<sup>[42]</sup> Ru/C in this article is obtained by heat treatment of Ru-based MOF. The obtained Ru nanoparticles are small in size and are easily protected by the graphene-like structure formed by organic ligands pyrosis (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Therefore, the exact position of the CO stripping peak of Ru/C cannot be determined. We prepared carbonsupported Ru nanoparticles according to the literature for CO stripping experiments.[11] We found that the CO stripping peak of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C is between Ru/XC-72R and Pt/C, which indicates that the adsorption capacity of Ru/WO<sub>2.9</sub>/C for hydroxyl groups is stronger than that for Pt/C and weaker than that for Ru/XC-72R (Figure \$35, Supporting Information), which is consistent with the results of our theoretical calculations. Moreover, the position of the CO stripping peak of Ru/XC-72R that we measured is close to the reported value.[32]

To investigate the origin of the catalyst's high HOR activity and the role of the oxygen-vacancy-rich support, we also performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations. For better comparison, the Ru cluster model and the Ru/WO<sub>3-x</sub> interface model were calculated. For the Ru cluster model, we calculated various possible adsorption sites for hydrogen and hydroxyl, among which the optimal adsorption sites are shown in, Figure \$36 (Supporting Information). For the Ru/WO<sub>3-x</sub> interface model, we also calculated various possible sites of hydrogen and hydroxyl on the Ru or WO<sub>3,x</sub> side of the Ru/WO<sub>3,x</sub> interface, among which the optimal adsorption sites are shown in Figure 4a,b; Figure S37 (Supporting Information). Obviously, the hydrogen and hydroxyl binding energies (HBE and OHBE) of Ru/WO<sub>3-x</sub> at the interface are much weaker than those of Ru cluster, and the HBE of Ru/WO $_{3-x}$  is close to Pt (Figure 4d). A good catalyst for HOR should have low HBE and moderate (not too strong and not too weak) OHBE,[43] while pure Ru is not a suitable choice because of its relatively strong adsorption of hydroxyl groups, which leads to the preferential formation of Ru-OH $_{\rm ad}$  at a relatively low anode potential. $^{[11,44]}$  Pt has a low HBE and can effectively adsorb H. However, the OHBE of Pt is too weak to provide effective OH adsorption sites (Figure 4d; Figure S38, Supporting Information), so Pt has poor HOR activity in alkaline environments.[44,45] For Ru/WO<sub>3,x</sub>, hydrogen tends to adsorb at the interface close to the Ru surface, and hydroxyl tends to adsorb at the interface close to the WO<sub>3-x</sub> surface. Ru/WO<sub>3-x</sub> has HBE close to Pt and moderate OHBE, which will be beneficial to improve HOR activity. As shown in Figure 4c, according to the charge density difference analysis, there is a charge transfer from Ru to WO<sub>3-x</sub> at the Ru/WO<sub>3-x</sub> interface, which is beneficial to weaken the Ru-H binding on the Ru side and further affect the catalytic activity. The density of states (DOS) of electrons near the Fermi level is directly related to the adsorption energy of intermediates. We therefore calculated the DOS of Ru clusters and Ru atoms in Ru/WO<sub>3-x</sub> (Figure \$39, Supporting Information). Specifically, the d-band center position of the Ru atom in

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Optimized structures of a) H\*, b) OH\* adsorbed on Ru/WO3-x from side view interface, the white, red, purple and green spheres represent H, O, W, and Ru atoms, respectively. c) Calculated charge density differences for the Ru and WO3-x interface models. The yellow and cyan regions refer to increased and decreased charge distributions, respectively. d) Calculated optimal binding energy of Δ EH\* and Δ EOH\* on Ru, Ru/WO3-x and Pt models.

the Ru/WO3-x model is −2.61 eV, which moves to a higher energy relative to the d-band center position of the Ru cluster, thus weakening the hydrogen and hydroxyl adsorption on the Ru near the interface. We also calculated the full HOR free energy profile following a bifunctional mechanism. As shown in, Figure S40 (Supporting Information), we compared the HOR free energy profiles for Pt, Ru and Ru/WO3-x. Our computational results prove that Ru/WO3-x not only has an optimal HBE analogous to that of Pt but also has a moderate OHBE and H2OBE, which well explains the observed HOR performance. Meanwhile, the H\* and OH\* adsorption on the Ru model is too strong, and the energy barrier is very large, which also explains the sluggish alkaline HOR kinetic process. The lower energy barrier for Ru/WO3-x is beneficial for accelerating reaction kinetics, contributing to its notable HOR performance. Overall, the introduction of WO3-x in Ru optimizes the HBE and OHBE at the interface, reduces the adsorption of hydroxyl groups on metal sites, and achieves excellent HOR performance and stability under alkaline conditions.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we successfully designed Ru-based heterostructures catalysts with abundant Ru and WO2.9 interfaces based on interface engineering. Compared with other traditional metal oxides, WO2.9 has better conductivity and its abundant oxygen vacancies can provide hydroxyl adsorption sites. The transfer of electrons from Ru to the WO2.9 substrate causes the d-band center of Ru to move downward, weakening the HBE of Ru. Therefore, Ru/WO2.9/C can realize the equilibrium adsorption of hydrogen and hydroxyl intermediates at the interface, synergistically accelerates the HOR kinetic process, and exhibits excellent HOR activity. The HOR mass activity and specific activity of Ru/WO2.9/C are 2.5/3.3 and 21.8/8.3 times that of PtRu/C and Pt/C, respectively, and it also exhibits a high noble metal utilization rate of 3970 mW mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in AEMFCs. The Ru/WO2.9/C catalyst also exhibited excellent operational stability and CO tolerance. This study demonstrated the importance of interface engineering and metalloid supports with rich oxygen vacancies for the development of Pt-free, highly active and stable HOR electrocatalysts, providing a new strategy for the development of highperformance alkaline HOR catalysts.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

Z.C. and Y.Y. contributed equally to this work. This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation (22102169, 22072140) and the National Key R&D Program of China (Grant No. 2021YFA1600202). The calculations were completed on the supercomputing system in the Supercomputing Center of University of Science and Technology of China.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>We thank the staff at the BL11B beamline of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) for measuring Ru K-edge XANES. We thank the staff at the soft X-ray magnetic circular dichroism end station (XMCD) of the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (NSRL) for measuring O K-edge XANES.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

electrocatalysts, heterostructure, hydrogen oxidation reaction, interface, oxygen-vacancy-rich

> Received: September 6, 2023 Revised: November 6, 2023 Published online: January 3, 2024

- [1] a) J. O. M. Bockris, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energ.* **2013**, *38*, 2579; b) B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020; c) I. E. L. Stephens, J. Rossmeisl, I. Chorkendorff, *Science* **2016**, *354*, 1378.
- [2] M. Shao, Q. Chang, J.-P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, *Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 3594.
- [3] a) H. T. Chung, J. H. Won, P. Zelenay, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 1922; b) H. Adabi, A. Shakouri, N. Ul Hassan, J. R. Varcoe, B. Zulevi, A. Serov, J. R. Regalbuto, W. E. Mustain, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 834; c) S. Liu, Z. D. Li, C. L. Wang, W. W. Tao, M. X. Huang, M. Zuo, Y. Yang, K. Yang, L. J. Zhang, S. Chen, P. P. Xu, Q. W. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 938; d) Y. Yang, K. T. Mao, S. Q. Gao, H. Huang, G. L. Xia, Z. Y. Lin, P. Jiang, C. L. Wang, H. Wang, Q. W. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1801732; e) B. Li, S. P. Sasikala, D. H. Kim, J. Bak, I.-D. Kim, E. Cho, S. O. Kim, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *56*, 524; f) Y. Xiong, Y. Yang, F. J. Disalvo, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 10744; g) M. M. Hossen, K. Artyushkova, P. Atanassov, A. Serov, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *375*, 214.
- [4] a) J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255; b) W. C. Sheng, Z. B. Zhuang, M. R. Gao, J. Zheng, J. G. G. Chen, Y. S. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 5848.
- [5] R. Wang, D. Li, S. Maurya, Y. S. Kim, Y. Wu, Y. Liu, D. Strmcnik, N. M. Markovic, V. R. Stamenkovic, *Nanoscale Horiz.* **2020**, *5*, 316.
- [6] a) W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Héroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schüler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804; b) Y. Duan, Z. Y. Yu, L. Yang, L. R. Zheng, C. T. Zhang, X. T. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, X. X. Yu, R. Liu, H. H. Ding, C. Gu, X. S. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789; c) F.-Y. Gao, S.-N. Liu, J.-C. Ge, X.-L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y.-R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. Dong, X. Yu, R.-C. Bao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, Z.-G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M.-R. Gao, Y. Yan, S.-H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 993; d) Y. F. Gao, Y. Yang, R. Schimmenti, E. Murray, H. Q. Peng, Y. M. Wang, C. X. Ge, W. Y. Jiang, G. W. Wang, F. J. DiSalvo, D. A. Muller, M. Mavrikakis, L. Xiao, H. D. Abruna, L. Zhuang, *P. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2022**, *119*, 2119883119; e) X. N. Wang, L. M. Zhao, X. J. Li, Y. Liu, Y. S. Wang, Q. F. Yao, J. P. Xie, Q. Z. Xue, Z. F. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.*

- **2022**, *13*, 1596; f) F. Yang, P. Han, N. Yao, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Chem. Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 12118; g) L. X. Su, D. Gong, N. Yao, Y. B. Li, Z. Li, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2106156; h) W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y.-C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2020**, *59*, 10797; i) S. Qin, Y. Duan, X. L. Zhang, L. R. Zheng, F. Y. Gao, P. P. Yang, Z. Z. Niu, R. Liu, Y. Yang, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2686.
- [7] a) Y. Zhang, G. Li, Z. L. Zhao, L. L. Han, Y. G. Feng, S. H. Liu, B. Y. Xu, H. G. Liao, G. Lu, H. L. Xin, X. Q. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105049; b) J. T. Zhang, X. Z. Liu, Y. J. Ji, X. R. Liu, D. Su, Z. B. Zhuang, Y. C. Chang, C. W. Pao, Q. Shao, Z. W. Hu, X. Q. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1761; c) Y. Qiu, L. Xin, Y. Li, I. T. Mccrum, F. Guo, T. Ma, Y. Ren, Q. Liu, L. Zhou, S. Gu, M. J. Janik, W. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 16580; d) L. Fu, Y. Li, N. Yao, F. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7322; e) A. K. Ipadeola, P. V. Mwonga, S. C. Ray, R. R. Maphanga, K. I. Ozoemena, *Chem-ElectroChem* **2020**, *7*, 4562; f) H. A. Miller, A. Lavacchi, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, F. Di Benedetto, F. D'acapito, Y. Paska, M. Page, D. R. Dekel, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2016**, *55*, 6004; g) B. H. Zhang, G. Q. Zhao, B. X. Zhang, L. X. Xia, Y. Z. Jiang, T. Y. Ma, M. X. Gao, W. P. Sun, H. G. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400; h) J. X. Jiang, J. H. Liao, S. C. Tao, T. Najam, W. Ding, H. J. Wang, Z. D. Wei, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *333*, 135444.
- [8] J. Mahmood, F. Li, S.-M. Jung, M. S. Okyay, I. Ahmad, S.-J. Kim, N. Park, H. Y. Jeong, J.-B. Baek, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2017**, *12*, 441.
- [9] a) S. Lu, Z. Zhuang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5156; b) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. Van Der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [10] a) Y.-H. Wang, X.-T. Wang, H. Ze, X.-G. Zhang, P. M. Radjenovic, Y.-J. Zhang, J.-C. Dong, Z.-Q. Tian, J.-F. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2021**, *60*, 5708; b) C. H. Zhan, Y. Xu, L. Z. Bu, H. Z. Zhu, Y. G. Feng, T. Yang, Y. Zhang, Z. Q. Yang, B. L. Huang, Q. Shao, X. Q. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6261.
- [11] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.
- [12] E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 6665.
- [13] M. T. Greiner, L. Chai, M. G. Helander, W.-M. Tang, Z.-H. Lu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2012**, *22*, 4557.
- [14] a) A. P. Shpak, A. M. Korduban, M. M. Medvedskij, V. O. Kandyba, *J Electron Spectrosc* **2007**, *156*, 172; b) Y. Liu, J. Li, H. Tang, W. Li, Y. Yang, Y. Li, Q. Chen, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2016**, *68*, 81; c) Z. Wei, W. Wang, W. Li, X. Bai, J. Zhao, E. C. M. Tse, D. L. Phillips, Y. Zhu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2021**, *60*, 8236.
- [15] a) Y. Yang, X. Sun, G. Han, X. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2019**, *58*, 10644; b) W. Jia, J. Zhang, Z. Lu, S. Wang, S. Feng, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 3902; c) Z. X. Song, Y. N. Zhu, H. S. Liu, M. N. Banis, L. Zhang, J. J. Li, K. Doyle-Davis, R. Y. Li, T. K. Sham, L. J. Yang, A. Young, G. A. Botton, L. M. Liu, X. L. Sun, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2003096.
- [16] S. S. Niu, Z. Y. Wang, T. Zhou, M. L. Yu, M. Z. Yu, J. S. Qiu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1605332.
- [17] J.-S. Li, S. Zhang, J.-Q. Sha, H. Wang, M.-Z. Liu, L.-X. Kong, G.-D. Liu, *Acs Appl. Mater. Inter.* **2018**, *10*, 17140.
- [18] a) Z. Jiang, S. Song, X. Zheng, X. Liang, Z. Li, H. Gu, Z. Li, Y. Wang, S. Liu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 19619; b) M. Wang, Q. Sun, Z. Fan, W. Zhu, F. Liao, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, H. Yang, H. Huang, M. Ma, T. Cheng, Q. Shao, M. Shao, Z. Kang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 4037.
- [19] S. Gong, C. Wang, P. Jiang, K. Yang, J. Lu, M. Huang, S. Chen, J. Wang, Q. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 15079.
- [20] H. Song, Y. Li, Z. Lou, M. Xiao, L. Hu, Z. Ye, L. Zhu, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2015**, *166*, 112.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

[36] Y. Zhao, X. Wang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*,

- [21] Q. Liu, F. Wang, H. Lin, Y. Xie, N. Tong, J. Lin, X. Zhang, Z. Zhang, X. Wang, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2018**, *8*, 4399.
- [22] L. Sun, Z. Li, R. Su, Y. Wang, Z. Li, B. Du, Y. Sun, P. Guan, F. Besenbacher, M. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2018**, *57*, 10666.
- [23] J. Park, S. Lee, H.-E. Kim, A. Cho, S. Kim, Y. Ye, J. W. Han, H. Lee, J. H. Jang, J. Lee, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2019**, *58*, 16038.
- [24] L. K. Wang, Y. Liu, G. R. Han, H. L. Zhao, *J. Alloy Compd.* **2022**, *890*, 161833.
- [25] J. D. Chen, C. H. Chen, M. K. Qin, B. Li, B. B. Lin, Q. Mao, H. B. Yang, B. Liu, Y. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5382.
- [26] Y. T. Ye, H. Bai, M. C. Li, Z. Tian, R. F. Du, W. H. Fan, G. C. Xi, *Adv. Mater. Technol.* **2019**, *4*, 1900282.
- [27] X. Feng, T. Sun, X. Feng, L. Chen, Y. Yang, F. Zhang, *Acs Appl. Mater. Inter.* **2022**, *14*, 54769.
- [28] P. K. Kriti, S. Kaur, D. Arora, K. Asokan, D. P. Singh, *Rsc. Adv.* **2019**, *9*, 20536.
- [29] N. Zhang, X. Li, H. Ye, S. Chen, H. Ju, D. Liu, Y. Lin, W. Ye, C. Wang, Q. Xu, J. Zhu, L. Song, J. Jiang, Y. Xiong, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 8928.
- [30] H. Jeon, J. H. Park, S. Y. Han, S. H. Ahn, J. Baik, H. Lee, H. S. Ahn, S. W. Hong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2021**, *567*, 150834.
- [31] M. E. Scofield, Y. Zhou, S. Yue, L. Wang, D. Su, X. Tong, M. B. Vukmirovic, R. R. Adzic, S. S. Wong, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 3895.
- [32] J. Jiang, S. Tao, Q. He, J. Wang, Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 10168.
- [33] a) Y. Men, D. Wu, Y. Hu, L. Li, P. Li, S. Jia, J. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2023**, *62*, 202217976; b) J. Ohyama, T. Sato, Y. Yamamoto, S. Arai, A. Satsuma, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 8016.
- [34] a) Y. B. Li, C. Y. Yang, J. C. Yue, H. J. Cong, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2211586; b) Y. Duan, Z.-Y. Yu, S.-J. Hu, X.-S. Zheng, C.-T. Zhang, H.-H. Ding, B.-C. Hu, Q.-Q. Fu, Z.-L. Yu, X. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, S.-H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2019**, *58*, 15772; c) J. Yang, C. D. Wang, H. X. Ju, Y. Sun, S. Q. Xing, J. F. Zhu, Q. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1703864.
- [35] a) Y. R. Xue, L. Shi, X. R. Liu, J. J. Fang, X. D. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. S. Yan, Z. B. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651; b) Z. B. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. S. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141.

- 11751. [37] Y. Cong, B. Yi, Y. Song, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *44*, 288.
- [38] a) X. Y. Wu, N. J. Chen, H. A. Klok, Y. M. Lee, X. L. Hu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2022**, *61*, 202114892; b) H. H. Chen, R. Tao, K. T. Bang, M. H. Shao, Y. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200934; c) W. Song, X. Liang, H. Zhang, X. Liu, X. Zhang, L. Wu, X. Ge, T. Xu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 21503.
- [39] Y. Duan, X.-L. Zhang, F.-Y. Gao, Y. Kong, Y. Duan, X.-T. Yang, X.-X. Yu, Y.-R. Wang, S. Qin, Z. Chen, R. Wu, P.-P. Yang, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, T.-B. Lu, Z.-Y. Yu, S.-H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2023**, *62*, 202217275.
- [40] a) M. Wang, H. Yang, J. Shi, Y. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. Wang, S. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhong, T. Cheng, W. Zhou, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2021**, *60*, 5771; b) L. L. Han, P. F. Ou, W. Liu, X. Wang, H. T. Wang, R. Zhang, C. W. Pao, X. J. Liu, W. F. Pong, J. Song, Z. B. Zhuang, M. V. Mirkin, J. Luo, H. L. L. Xin, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabm3779; c) F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew Chem. Int. Edit.* **2019**, *58*, 14179; d) B. X. Zhang, B. H. Zhang, G. Q. Zhao, J. M. Wang, D. Q. Liu, Y. P. Chen, L. X. Xia, M. X. Gao, Y. F. Liu, W. P. Sun, H. G. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5894.
- [41] a) J. Zheng, W. C. Sheng, Z. B. Zhuang, B. J. Xu, Y. S. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501602; b) A. Cuesta, C. Gutiérrez, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **1995**, *382*, 153; c) Y. Hori, A. Murata, *Electrochim. Acta* **1990**, *35*, 1777.
- [42] a) L. Zhuang, J. Jin, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2007**, *129*, 11033; b) Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [43] a) H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211854; b) C. R. Huang, M. Feng, Y. Peng, B. Zhang, J. L. Huang, X. Yue, S. M. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2300593.
- [44] X. B. Zhang, X. Xiao, J. Chen, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, M. Gao, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4511.
- [45] a) M. K. Kundu, T. Bhowmik, R. Mishra, S. Barman, *Chem. Sus. Chem.* **2018**, *11*, 2388; b) J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z.-F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.