---
source: Chen 等 - 2025 - Reversing PtC Degradation Via Ni(OH)2 ‐Wrapping Induced Spreading of Electric Field for.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 76.528s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:42:04.014193Z
---

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202509268 *Hydrogen Evolution Reaction* doi.org/10.1002/anie.202509268

# **Reversing Pt/C Degradation Via Ni(OH)2-Wrapping Induced Spreading of Electric Field for Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution Reaction**

*Yuzhu Chen, Jiajun She, Zizhun Wang, Wenwen Li, Fuxi Liu, Qing Liang, Kexin Song, Zhou Jiang, Xu Zou,\* [Wei Zhang,](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6414-7015)\* and Weitao Zheng\**

**Abstract:** Low mass activity due to unfavorable water dissociation and insufficient stability are two primary challenges for Pt catalysts. Herein, we find that the specific adsorption of solvent molecules in the inner Helmholtz plane (IHP) leads to local environmental degradation in the Pt/C catalyst. So, we propose an encapsulation-confined strategy, by which a poriferous Ni(OH)2 on Pt nanocages (thereafter Pt/Ni(OH)2) was spatially wrapped to regulate charge transfer. As the heterogeneous interface enables spreading the surface electric field, the wrapped Ni(OH)2 layer not only optimizes the proton-coupled electron dynamics but also stabilizes the Pt sites via undifferentiated adsorption of solvent molecules in the IHP, as demonstrated by using identical location transmission electron microscopy (IL-TEM). Consequently, the Pt/Ni(OH)2 (11.85 mA/mgPt at an overpotential of 70 mV) achieves an excellent mass activity of 12.74 times higher than the commercial Pt/C and long-term durability in 1 M KOH. Our work has gained insights into the architecture of microenvironments-involved interfaces.

#### *Introduction*

Pt is considered to be the most efficient element in the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) due to its near-optimal hydrogen adsorption energy.[\[1–5\]](#page-7-0) However, Pt catalysts suffer from high cost, and low HER mass activity particularly in alkaline media.[\[6–9\]](#page-7-0) This is mainly due to the almost fully occupied 5d orbitals of Pt; as it overlaps with the orbitals of water molecules to produce Pauli repulsion, the water dissociation process becomes unfavorable in the Volmer step.[\[1,7,10–13\]](#page-7-0) In addition, metal cations in an alkaline medium destroy

[\*] Y. Chen, J. She, Z. Wang, W. Li, F. Liu, Dr. Q. Liang, K. Song, Z. Jiang, Dr. X. Zou, Prof. W. Zhang, Prof. W. Zheng Key Laboratory of Automobile Materials MOE, School of Materials

Science & Engineering, Electron Microscopy Center, International Center of Future Science, Changbaishan Laboratory, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China

E-mail: [zoux@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:zoux@jlu.edu.cn) [weizhang@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:weizhang@jlu.edu.cn) [wtzheng@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:wtzheng@jlu.edu.cn)

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section

the hydrogen bond network at the interface and thereof increase the interfacial proton transfer energy barrier.[\[14\]](#page-8-0) In this regard, efforts to improve the alkaline HER kinetics of Pt-based catalysts have been focused on the construction of heterogeneous catalysts and the intended stability.[\[15–21\]](#page-8-0) The main types of deactivation include detachment of Pt sites from the substrate and agglomeration of catalyst particles during continuous operation. For the widely commercialized Pt/C catalysts, H2 bubbles on Pt particles lead to the weakening of the interaction between Pt particles and carbon carriers, promoting the migration and detachment of Pt particles. Other studies have shown that the surface chemistry of carbon in alkaline media enables modifying the anchoring point between the Pt particles and the carbon carrier, acting mainly as antidegradation of Pt/C, however, following an ambiguous mechanism.[\[22\]](#page-8-0) Whereas less attention has been paid to the modification of solvents in IHP. Therefore, it is of great significance for controlling the microenvironment of the electrode surface toward optimizing the activity and stability of catalysts.

On the other hand, the electric double layer (EDL) at the electrode–electrolyte interface is the core region of mass transfer and electronic transfer[\[23,24\]](#page-8-0) which has a significant impact on the kinetics of an electrochemical reaction (e.g., alkaline HER).[\[25\]](#page-8-0) The EDL can be classified into the inner and outer Helmholtz planes (IHP and OHP).[\[26\]](#page-8-0) The IHP, where the adsorbed species (reactants, intermediates, ions, and solvent molecules), electron transfer and desorption of products, dominate in the catalytic process.[\[27–29\]](#page-8-0) Consequently, changes in the surface electronic structure of catalysts lead to a complex dynamic evolution and migration of adsorbed species in the IHP.[\[30–32\]](#page-8-0)

Quite different from that of the bulk, the composition of the electrolyte surrounding the active sites is not conducive to stabilizing the Pt, prone to detachment and agglomeration. In particular, through analyzing the difference in the local distributions of solvent molecules, we found that the charge accumulation at the surface of the commercial Pt/C triggers the specific adsorption of solvent molecules. Herein, we constructed a proton permeability Ni(OH)2-confined Pt nanocage to trigger the spreading of a surface electric field by modulating electron transfer at the heterogeneous interface. Moreover, the electric charge distribution on the catalyst surface is homogenized by redistributing the interfacial charge, thus improving the environment of the active sites at IHP and achieving undifferentiated adsorption of solvent molecules. Moreover, the proton-permeable Ni(OH)2 accelerates the

dissociation of water, forming a proton-rich environment that facilitates the sustained and efficient transport of protons to the Pt sites

Taking advantage of these merits,  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$  can achieve overpotential activity of 26 mV under ultralow Pt loads (51.02  $\mu g_{Pt}/cm^2$ ) and stability of over 200 h at a current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>. Our work reverses the negative role of specific adsorbed solvent molecules at IHP and provides a unique perspective to understand the effects of tuning electronic structure on catalyst activity and stability.

#### **Results and Discussion**

The Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst was synthesized under weakly acidic conditions using a wet chemical galvanic replacement strategy. Specifically, under acidic conditions, the spontaneous redox reaction occurs between Pt<sup>4+</sup> and Ni. The Kirkendall effect caused by the different diffusion rates of Ni and Pt atoms led to the formation of platinum-rich nanocages, which were embedded in 3D poriferous Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1a). The morphology of the catalyst during the whole reaction was recorded by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (Figures S1, S2). In addition, the synergistic interplay between Kirkendall diffusion kinetics and controlled acidic etching generated a 3D interconnected mesoporous architecture within the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. The pore size distribution results from N<sub>2</sub> isothermal adsorption measurements show that the pore size of the Pt nanocages is  $\sim 10$  nm with 10–80 nm for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figures \$4, \$5). This porous structure may play a crucial role in enhancing HER by conferring electrolyte accessibility to the material, increasing active site availability, and reducing charge transfer resistance.[33]

We used the 3D reconstruction technology of TEM to image the intimate bonding between the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets and the Pt nanocages by rotating 90° clockwise and counterclockwise along the z axis, respectively (see Supporting Information Video S1). TEM images of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> observed from different directions (30°, 60°, 90°, -30°, -60°, and  $-90^{\circ}$  as shown in Figure 1b) confirm that Pt nanocages are uniformly embedded in poriferous Ni(OH)2, exhibiting a diameter of 30–50 nm (Figure S6). Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is readily broken up under an electron beam, indicative of ultrathin properties (Figure S7). This configuration affirms robust structural stability, which plays an important role in the durability of the catalyst. This observation is further attested by the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure S8). The structural information on Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is observed by using aberration-corrected high-resolution TEM (AC-HRTEM). As shown in Figure 1c, lattice fringes with distinct interplanar distances of 1.98 and 2.29 Å can be observed, which are close to the (200) and (111) planes of face-centered cubic phase Pt, respectively. The acute angle between the two planes is 54.74°. Remarkably, the lattice fringes present a random distribution of ordered and disordered Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, which may be due to the poor crystallization of nickel hydroxide under weak acidic conditions. The lattice fringes with distinct interplanar distances of 2.70 Å are assigned to the (100) plane of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, consistent with crystallographic information from X-ray diffraction (XRD) (Figure S9). High-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) mapping exhibits the uniform distribution of Ni and O species, whereas the Pt species are aggregated on nanocages (Figures 1d and S10). The analysis mentioned-above confirms that Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterojunction catalysts are successfully prepared. The Ni and Pt contents of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) were 46.14 and 12.68 wt%, respectively (Table S1). The Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> prepared by the spatially confined method shows a much lower content of Pt.

To gain insight into the catalytic process, the HER activity of Pt/Ni(OH)2 and Pt/C in 1 M KOH was evaluated by a conventional three-electrode device. We studied the linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves of Pt/C and Pt/Ni(OH)2 initially and after 5000 cycles, respectively (Figure 2a,d). After 5000 cycles, the overpotential of Pt/C has decreased by 27 mV at 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, whereas the HER performance of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> remains essentially unchanged, suggesting that Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> has better alkaline tolerance. In-situ identicallocation TEM (IL-TEM) was utilized to spatially track structural evolution, with imaging registrations performed on precisely aligned regions of both pristine and postreaction catalysts. The analysis of commercial Pt/C after HER reveals significant carbon support migration and Pt nanoparticles detaching from the substrate (Figure 2b). Concurrently, the Ostwald ripening occurred, increasing the mean Pt particle diameter from 2.80 to 3.24 nm (Figure S11). In contrast, after HER highly dispersed Pt nanocages within poriferous Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets were still observed, demonstrating the excellent structural stability of Pt/Ni(OH)2 under continuous HER conditions (Figures 2e and S12). This significant difference indicates that the encapsulation-confinement strategy effectively inhibits active site migration and Ostwald-driven size evolution.

We further quantified the detachment of Pt from Pt/C and Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). As shown in Figure 2g, the total Pt detachment from Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is ~1.12%, which is much lower than that of Pt/C (7.81%). To further demonstrate the stability of the active sites in the catalysts, we analyzed the Pt content of Pt/C and Pt/Ni(OH)2 before and after HER by using EDS. The Pt/C underwent significant metal loss with Pt content decreasing from 19.24 to 13.91 wt%, whereas the Pt content of Pt/Ni(OH)2 remained almost unchanged throughout the durability test (Figure 2h, Tables S2, S3). We find that both Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C after HER reaction contain small amounts of K, which can also be seen in the ICP-MS and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C after HER (Figure 2h, Tables S4, S5). The measured hydrogen underpotential deposition (H<sub>upd</sub>) peak area results showed that the H<sub>upd</sub> area of Pt/C decreased by 36.8% and that of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> decreased by 3.5%. This result showed a significant reduction in active sites of Pt in Pt/C, which was consistent with ICP-MS and EDS results (Figure \$13). According to the above data, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> played a role in stabilizing the active sites. The EDS elemental maps reveal the difference in the location distributions of K<sup>+</sup> on the Pt/C and Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> after HER. Pt/C exhibits K<sup>+</sup>

<span id="page-2-0"></span>*Figure 1.* Synthesis and structural characterization of Pt/Ni(OH)2 catalysts. a) Schematic illustration of the synthetic process of Pt/Ni(OH)2. Pt/Ni(OH)2 b) 3D TEM tomography images. c) AC-HRTEM images. d) HAADF-STEM image and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping.

accumulation at Pt-carbon interfaces. The spatial distribution of K<sup>+</sup> is closely related to the Pt elements, and there is no K<sup>+</sup> distribution on carbon carriers without Pt particles (green circles in Figures [2i,](#page-3-0) S14). In contrast, Pt/Ni(OH)2 shows an undifferentiated adsorption K<sup>+</sup> distribution throughout the structure. As shown in Figure [2j,](#page-3-0) K<sup>+</sup> is still present on Ni(OH)2 nanosheets without Pt nanocages (**red circles**, Figure S15). Since K<sup>+</sup> originates from the electrolyte, the distribution of K<sup>+</sup> on the electrode surface can reflect the adsorption behavior of solvent molecules on the electrode surface. From the above analysis, it can be seen that the adsorption behavior of solvent molecules is related to the stability of the catalyst. The specific adsorption of solvent molecules at the Pt/C interface leads to the removal of active sites from the catalyst (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). On the contrary, the undifferentiated adsorption of solvent molecules on Pt/Ni(OH)2 avoids the detachment of active sites (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0).

To gain insight into the electronic interactions between internal Pt nanocages and Ni(OH)2 shell in the Pt/Ni(OH)2, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was performed. The Pt L3-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra demonstrated that the white line intensity of Pt/Ni(OH)2 and H-Pt (homemade Pt, see the Experimental section in Supporting Information for synthetic details, Figure

<span id="page-3-0"></span>*Figure 2.* Characterization of the relationship between the adsorption of solvent molecules and the stability of the catalyst. a) Initial and 5000 cycles LSV testing, and b) IL-TEM images before and after HER of Pt/C. c) Schematic illustration of specific adsorption of solvent molecules on Pt/C. d) Initial and 5000 cycles LSV testing, and e) IL-TEM images before and after HER of Pt/Ni(OH)2. f) Schematic illustration of undifferentiated adsorption of solvent molecules on Pt/Ni(OH)2. g) The amounts (wt%) of leached Pt from Pt/C and Pt/Ni(OH)2 at 10 mA/cm2 for 24 h. h) Comparison of Pt content before and after HER, and K content after HER. i) Elemental mapping of C, Pt, and K in Pt/C after HER. j) Elemental mapping of Ni, Pt, and K in Pt/Ni(OH)2 after HER.

S16) was situated between those of Pt foil and PtO, which indicates Pt carried a moderately positive charge (Figure [3a\)](#page-4-0).[\[34\]](#page-8-0) The white line intensity of Pt/Ni(OH)2 shows the downshift compared to H-Pt, suggesting the Pt sites are enriched with more electrons under the limitation of Ni(OH)2. While in the Ni K-edge XANES spectra (Figure [3d\)](#page-4-0),[\[4,35\]](#page-7-0) the absorption edges of Pt/Ni(OH)2 are more positive compared to NiO and more negative compared to H-Ni(OH)2 (homemade Ni(OH)2, see Experimental section in Supporting Information for synthetic details, Figure S17), which indicates that the Ni atoms in Pt/Ni(OH)2 display higher valence states than +2.[\[36\]](#page-8-0) In XPS, the Ni 2p binding energy of Pt/Ni(OH)2 is larger than that of H-Ni(OH)2, and the 4f peak of Pt in Pt/Ni(OH)2 shows a negative shift compared to H-Pt.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) This indicates a decrease in the Pt valence state and an increase in the Ni valence state, which is consistent with the XPS results (Figure S18). The Fourier transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra revealed that Pt/Ni(OH)2 presented two prominent peaks at 1.99 Å and 2.51 Å are attributable to the Pt─Pt bond. Compared with PtO (0.76 Å and 1.28 Å), the Pt─O peaks of Pt/Ni(OH)2 shift to a lower radial distance with 0.92 Å and 1.38 Å (Figure [3b\)](#page-4-0).[\[38\]](#page-8-0) Simultaneously, the Ni K-edge EXAFS spectra show that the Ni─O and Ni─Ni peaks changed from 1.65 Å and 2.73 Å in H-Ni(OH)2 to 1.53 Å and 2.60Å in Pt/Ni(OH)2 (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0),[\[34,39\]](#page-8-0) respectively. The wavelet transforms (WT) further confirmed for this assignment and visualized the coexistence of coordination environment and bond length in Pt/Ni(OH)2 (Figures [3c,f,](#page-4-0) and S19). This clearly demonstrates the strong coupling between Pt nanocages and Ni(OH)2 by bridging oxygen atoms in Pt/Ni(OH)2.

The plane-averaged electron density difference of Pt/Ni(OH)2 in the Z-direction indicates that on both sides of the interface Pt is the electron acceptor (positive peak) and

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. Structure characteristics of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . a)  $PtL_3$ -edge XANES spectra, and b)  $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS spectra of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . c) WT for the  $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS signals of H-Pt and  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . d) Ni K-edge XANES spectra, and e) Ni K-edge EXAFS spectra of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . f) WT for the  $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS signals of H-Ni( $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS signals of H-Ni( $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS signals of H-Ni( $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS signals of H-Ni( $PtL_3$ -edge EXAFS spectra of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . The planar-averaged electron density difference in the Z-direction and charge density difference of g)  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$  and h) Pt/C, where yellow and cyan represent the electron-accumulation and electron-depletion regions, respectively. i) Electron localization function evaluations of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$  and Pt/C.

Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is the electron donor (negative peak), whereas the Pt/C exhibits an increase in charge density at the interface. A distinct peak appears around the interlayer position, meaning that Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> undergoes an efficient electron transfer at the interface through bridging oxygen to achieve charge redistribution. It lays a solid foundation for the formation of stable heterostructure interfaces (Figure 3g,h). As shown in Figure S20 the zeta potential of Pt/C (-19.30 mV) is more negative than that of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (-9.70 mV) in 1 M KOH. Thus, it further demonstrates that Pt/C exhibits an enhanced surface electric field.<sup>[40]</sup> A distinct peak appears in the interlayer position, meaning that Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> undergoes an efficient electron transfer at the interface through bridging oxygen to achieve charge redistribution, which is a solid

foundation for the formation of stable heterostructure interfaces. The 3D charge density difference of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> shows that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> core can donate electrons to Pt through the heterogeneous interface. This result is also confirmed by XPS and XAS. The Pt/C charge transfer is in the opposite direction, where C transfers the charge to Pt. This electron distribution can be visualized by 2D electron localization function, which reveals a strong electron localization at the Pt/C interface, promoting the adsorption of solvent molecules at the interface (Figure 3i). This information suggests that charge accumulation occurs at the Pt surface, which could explain the specific adsorption of solvent molecules on the Pt/C surface. However, an efficient electron transfer at the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> interface redistributes the interface

<span id="page-5-0"></span>*Figure 4.* Electrocatalytic performance of Pt/Ni(OH)2 and control catalysts in a three-electrode setup. a) LSV polarization curves of Pt/Ni(OH)2, Pt-Ni(OH)2, H-Ni(OH)2, Pt/C, and H-Pt in 1 M KOH. b) Tafel slope of Pt/Ni(OH)2, Pt/C, and H-Pt. c) Nyquist plots for Pt/Ni(OH)2, Pt/C, H-Pt, H-Ni(OH)2. d)–f) Bode phase plots of d) Pt/Ni(OH)2, e) H-Pt, and f) H-Ni(OH)2 at different applied potential according to the fitted data of EIS. g) Comparison of overpotential (η10), stability, turnover frequency, specific activity, mass activity parameters for Pt/Ni(OH)2, Pt/C, and H-Pt. h) Chronopotentiometry curves of Pt/Ni(OH)2, Pt/C, H-Pt, and comparison of HER stability with other Pt catalysts.

charge inducing a dispersed electric field, which leads to undifferentiated adsorption of solvent molecules.

The HER catalytic performance of Pt/Ni(OH)2 was evaluated in a standard three-electrode cell in 1 M KOH. For comparison, the same test conditions were used to evaluate the electrocatalytic activities of Pt-Ni(OH)2, H-Ni(OH)2, H-Pt, and commercial Pt/C. The polarization curves in 1 M KOH reveal that Pt/Ni(OH)2 exhibits a lower overpotential (26 mV) than commercial Pt/C (37 mV) in order to reach 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> (Figure 4a). Importantly, Pt/Ni(OH)2 shows optimal mass activity of 11.85 A/mgPt at 70 mV overpotential, which is 12.74 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C (0.93 A/mgPt) and 51.52 times higher than that of H-Pt (0.23 A mg/Pt) (Figure 4g). To evaluate the intrinsic activity of the catalysts, we calculated turnover frequency (TOF) and the specific activity by normalizing the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) (Figure S21). Compared to Pt/C and H-Pt, Pt/Ni(OH)2 exhibited the highest TOF (13.63 s−1) at an overpotential of 70 mV (Figure 4g). In addition to catalytic activity, stability is also a major parameter for evaluating catalysts. Pt/Ni(OH)2 exhibits the best stability, which is significantly better than that of commercial Pt/C catalysts. Furthermore, the long-term stability is examined at a higher current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> with a degradation rate only 15 µV h−<sup>1</sup> after 200 h (Figure 4h). Compared to the recently reported performance of Pt-based catalysts in alkaline HER (Table S8), it is clear that Pt/Ni(OH)2 possesses an excellent balance between activity and stability for the HER. In addition, we characterized Pt/Ni(OH)2 and Pt/C after HER, demonstrating the excellent structural and morphological

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. Theoretical insight into the alkaline HER mechanism on  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . a) Comparison of the Tafel slopes of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ , Pt/C, H-Pt, and  $Pt-Ni(OH)_2$ . b) CVs curves of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ , H-Pt, and H-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in 1 M KOH. c) The hydrogen adsorption Gibbs free energy for  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ , and the optimized atomic geometries of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ . d) Schematic mechanism for alkaline HER of  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$  and Pt/C.

stability of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is capable of maintaining its crystal structure (Figures 2e, S22, S23). EDS elemental mapping and as well as ICP show that the Pt elemental content of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> remains essentially unchanged after HER (Tables S3, S4). XPS also confirms that the surface chemical state of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is not altered after HER (Figure S25).

Moreover, the alkaline HER reaction kinetics of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> were analyzed. As shown in Figure 4b, the slope of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (28.23 mV/dec) is superior to that of Pt/C (39.20 mV/dec) and H-Pt (82.97 mV/dec), also supporting the heterogeneous-enhanced HER catalytic activity. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was used to investigate the charge transfer kinetics of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in alkaline HER. From the Nyquist plot, the solution resistances  $(R_s)$  in all the samples are in the range of 3.80–4.00  $\Omega$ . Comparing the charge transfer resistance  $(R_1)$  generated by water adsorption activation under low-frequency conditions, Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> holds  $\sim$ 2.40  $\Omega$ , which is much smaller than that of H-Pt ( $\sim$ 4.21  $\Omega$ ) and Pt/C ( $\sim$ 14.54  $\Omega$ ), suggesting that the fast charge transfer between the Pt/Ni(OH)2 surface and H<sub>2</sub>O molecules is faster (Figure 4c).<sup>[41]</sup> It can also be seen that the H adsorption resistance at high frequency  $(R_2)$  of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is very small at all potentials (Figure S27, Tables S9-S12), which illustrates the fast hydrogen adsorption kinetics on the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface.<sup>[42]</sup> The Bode plots show (Figure 4d–f) that the phase angle corresponding to Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is smaller compared to H-Pt and H-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>

at the same bias, suggesting that more charge on the surface of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is involved in the Faraday reaction.<sup>[13,43,44]</sup> However, H-Pt and H-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> involve more charges in the formation of the double layer capacitance. In addition, as the applied potential decreases, the frequency peaks of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> decrease in rapid positive displacement and phase angle relaxation, while the frequency peaks of H-Pt and H-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> decrease slowly. This indicates that the Faraday resistance of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> decreases and the surface reaction rate is faster. The fast charge transfer process and mass transfer process of Pt/Ni(OH)2 lead to better catalytic performance. In accordance with the abovementioned performances, the highest specific and mass activities of Pt/Ni(OH)2 could be attributed to the crucial role of interfacial electron transfer effects that provide highly efficient surface sites and inhibit the detachment of Pt

To gain more insight into the HER catalyst mechanism, Tafel slope analysis, cyclic voltammetry curves (CV), and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed. As shown in Figure 5a, the lower Tafel slope for  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$  corresponds to the Tafel step limiting mechanism, while the higher Tafel slopes for H-Pt and Pt/C are consistent with the Volmer and Heyrovsky limiting kinetics, respectively.<sup>[34]</sup> Mechanistic analysis shows a low adsorbed hydrogen atoms ( $H_{ad}$ ) coverage on the Pt/C surface, where  $H_{ad}$  combines with a water molecule and an electron to form an  $H_2$  molecule (Helovsky reaction). In  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ , the  $H_{ad}$  coverage

15213757, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202509268 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (and Cond

<span id="page-7-0"></span>is higher, and the H2 molecule is created and separated by the interaction of two neighboring Had atoms (Tafel reaction) (Figure [5d\)](#page-6-0). We further explored the interaction of Pt/Ni(OH)2 with underpotential deposition peak (Hupd) using CV curves (Figure [5b\)](#page-6-0). The Hupd of Pt/Ni(OH)2 is significantly stronger than that of H-Pt, suggesting that greater H adsorption on Pt/Ni(OH)2 accelerates the supply of protons to the active sites. The above analysis showed that the Pt/Ni(OH)2 catalyst encapsulates the Pt surface with a proton-permeable Ni(OH)2 shell that effectively promotes water dissociation while ensuring proton transfer, thus fundamentally altering the HER to acid-like Tafel-step-limited kinetics.

To further understand the effect of the interface electric field effect on the enhanced HER activity of Pt/Ni(OH)2, we investigate the hydrogen adsorption free energy (*G*H\*) by density functional theory (DFT) calculation (Figure [5c\)](#page-6-0). An atomistic model of the Pt/Ni(OH)2 interface was used as a basic model, which is characterized by a Ni(OH)2 layer partially covering Pt(111).[\[45\]](#page-8-0) Pt atoms and Ni atoms are bridged by O atoms (see details in Supporting Information, Figure S34). For comparison, Pt(111) and Ni(OH)2 (100) surfaces were also constructed,[\[39\]](#page-8-0) and the *G*H\* of the adsorption sites on the two surfaces were calculated (Figure [5c](#page-6-0) and Tables S9, Figures S35–S37). The results show that Pt/Ni(OH)2 and Pt have moderate *G*H\* values. Ni(OH)2 exhibits a relatively positive *G*H\* value. These results suggest that the presence of the interface makes the Pt/Ni(OH)2 surface constitute a more efficient catalytic site.[\[46\]](#page-8-0) To further understand the effect of the intrinsic electronic nature of the catalyst on HER activity, we calculated the density of states (DOS) of Pt and Pt/Ni(OH)2 (Figure S38). The d-band center of the Pt atom is positively shifted from −2.44 eV (Pt) to −2.19 eV (Pt/Ni(OH)2). This result indicates that the presence of the heterogeneous structure leads to a reduction of electrons in the antibonding orbitals and increases the bonding strength of the antibonding orbitals to the reaction intermediates, thus increasing the catalytic activity of HER.[\[47\]](#page-8-0) Overall, the interface-induced electric field effect in Pt/Ni(OH)2 optimizes the electronic structure of the surface and effectively reduces the reaction barrier, resulting in a high intrinsic activity in the HER process.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we report a proton penetrable Ni(OH)2 spatially confined Pt nanocage catalyst (Pt/Ni(OH)2) with a high-quality activity of 11.85 mA/mgPt at 70 mV and a durability of more than 200 h. The efficient electron transferinduced spreading of an electric field at the Pt/Ni(OH)2 interface resulted in an undifferentiated distribution of solvent molecules in the IHP, which significantly improved the microenvironment around the active sites and ensured high structural stability and active durability. The Ni(OH)2 accelerated the water dissociation and facilitated the supply of H\* to the Pt sites, significantly lowering the kinetic barrier of the reaction. 3D porous Ni(OH)2 acts as the encapsulation confinement for Pt nanocages, which greatly alleviates the detachment of Pt atoms and Ostwald ripening. Our work extends the influence of the electronic structure of the catalyst on the surface microenvironment of catalysts and inspires further studies on activity and stability.

#### *Supporting Information*

The authors have cited additional references within the Supporting Information.

#### *Acknowledgements*

This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51872115), and the Jilin Province Science and Technology Development Plan (20240304174SF).

#### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the Supporting Information of this article.

**Keywords:** Electrocatalytic • Hydrogen evolution reaction • Inner Helmholtz plane • Pt • Surface electric field effect

- [1] W. Ma, X. Zhang, W. Li, M. Jiao, L. Zhang, R. Ma, Z. Zhou, *Nanoscale.* **2023**, *15*, 11759–11776.
- [2] M. Zhang, Q. Liu, W. Sun, K. Sun, Y. Shen, W. An, L. Zhang, H. Chen, X. Zou, *Chemical Synthesis.* **2023**, *3*, 28.
- [3] X. Yang, Y.-X. Xiao, J.-B. Chen, F. Yu, G. Tian, F.-F. Pu, S. Zhang, S. I. C. de Torresi, M. D. Symes, C. Janiak, X.-Y. Yang, *Sci. China Mater.* **2023**, *66*, 3887–3894.
- [4] L. Zeng, Z. Zhao, F. Lv, Z. Xia, S.-Y. Lu, J. Li, K. Sun, K. Wang, Y. Sun, Q. Huang, Y. Chen, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3822.
- [5] P. Prabhu, J.-M. Lee, *Chem Catalysis.* **2023**, *3*, 100621.
- [6] J. D. Holladay, J. Hu, D. L. King, Y. Wang, *Catal. Today.* **2009**, *139*, 244–260.
- [7] N. R. Chodankar, S.-H. Ji, Y.-K. Han, D.-H. Kim, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2019**, *12*, 1.
- [8] J. Wu, J. Fan, X. Zhao, Y. Wang, D. Wang, H. Liu, L. Gu, Q. Zhang, L. Zheng, D. J. Singh, X. Cui, W. Zheng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202207512.
- [9] P. Li, G. Zhao, P. Cui, N. Cheng, M. Lao, X. Xu, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Nano Energy.* **2021**, *83*, 105850.
- [10] G. Gao, G. Zhu, X. Chen, Z. Sun, A. Cabot, *ACS Nano.* **2023**, *17*, 20804–20824.
- [11] E. Lee, W. Lee, H. Kim, M. Kim, S. Yun, J. Kim, W.-S. Yoon, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2023**, *8*, 707–714.
- [12] X.-P. Yin, H.-J. Wang, S.-F. Tang, X.-L. Lu, M. Shu, R. Si, T.-B. Lu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 9382–9386.
- [13] J. Wu, X. Wang, W. Zheng, Y. Sun, Y. Xie, K. Ma, Z. Zhang, Q. Liao, Z. Tian, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 19163–19172.

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[14] Y. Jia, Y. Li, Q. Zhang, S. Yasin, X. Zheng, K. Ma, Z. Hua, J. Shi, C. Gu, Y. Dou, S. Dou, *Carbon Energy.* **2024**, *6*, e528.
- [15] X. Mu, X. Zhang, Z. Chen, Y. Gao, M. Yu, D. Chen, H. Pan, S. Liu, D. Wang, S. Mu, *Nano Lett.* **2024**, *24*, 1015–1023.
- [16] C. Cui, R. Cheng, H. Zhang, C. Zhang, Y. Ma, C. Shi, B. Fan, H. Wang, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000693.
- [17] J. Li, J. Hu, M. Zhang, W. Gou, S. Zhang, Z. Chen, Y. Qu, Y. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3502.
- [18] H. Wang, Z. Gao, B. Sun, S. Mu, F. Dang, X. Guo, D. Ma, C. Shi, *Chem Catalysis.* **2023**, *3*, 100768.
- [19] X. Kang, J. Liu, Y. Xie, D. Wang, Q. Liu, P. Yu, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Sci. China Mater.* **2024**, *67*, 3579–3588.
- [20] X. Chen, S. Feng, S. Xie, Y. Miao, B. Gao, X. Zhang, L. Huang, Y. Li, P. K. Chu, X. Peng, *Sci. China Mater.* **2025**, *68*, 189–198.
- [21] H. Wang, J. Li, K. Li, Y. Lin, J. Chen, L. Gao, V. Nicolosi, X.
- Xiao, J.-M. Lee, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 1354–1390. [22] A. Zadick, L. Dubau, N. Sergent, G. Berthomé, M. Chatenet,
- [23] C. Chen, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Natl. Sci. Rev.* **2024**, *11*, nwae250.
- [24] V.-H. Do, J.-M. Lee, *ACS Nano.* **2022**, *16*, 17847–17890.

*ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 4819–4824.

- [25] Z. Liu, H. Tan, D. Liu, X. Liu, J. Xin, J. Xie, M. Zhao, L. Song, L. Dai, H. Liu, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6*, 1801829.
- [26] W. Schmickler, Electrochemical Theory: Double Layer, in *Reference Module in Chemistry, Molecular Sciences and Chemical Engineering*, Elsevier, Amsterdam, **2014**.
- [27] Q. Zhou, H. Zhao, C. Fu, J. Jian, H. Huo, Y. Ma, C. Du, Y. Gao, G. Yin, P. Zuo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202402625.
- [28] H. Yang, D. Chen, R. Zhao, G. Li, H. Xu, L. Li, X. Liu, G. Li, D. Chao, W. Han, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 2910–2923.
- [29] Y. Li, H. Xu, X. Xuan, Y. Zhang, H. Zhao, J. Li, M. Xu, L. Pan, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2025**, *505*, 158934.
- [30] C. Xie, W. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Yang, S. Wang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2024**, *53*, 10852–10877.
- [31] Y. Tomita, S. Teruya, O. Koga, Y. Hori, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2000**, *147*, 4164.
- [32] Á. Díaz-Duque, A. P. Sandoval-Rojas, A. F. Molina-Osorio, J. M. Feliu, M. F. Suárez-Herrera, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2015**, *61*, 74–77.

- [33] P. Prabhu, J.-M. Lee, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 6700–6719.
- [34] C. Wan, Z. Zhang, J. Dong, M. Xu, H. Pu, D. Baumann, Z. Lin, S. Wang, J. Huang, A. H. Shah, X. Pan, T. Hu, A. N. Alexandrova, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Nat. Mater.* **2023**, *22*, 1022–1029.
- [35] Y. Zhao, P. V. Kumar, X. Tan, X. Lu, X. Zhu, J. Jiang, J. Pan, S. Xi, H. Y. Yang, Z. Ma, T. Wan, D. Chu, W. Jiang, S. C. Smith, R. Amal, Z. Han, X. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2430.
- [36] M. A. Peck, M. A. Langell, *Chem. Mater.* **2012**, *24*, 4483–4490.
- [37] Z.-Y. Pan, Z. Tang, Y.-Z. Zhan, D. Sun, *Tungsten.* **2020**, *2*, 390– 402.
- [38] J. Wei, K. Xiao, Y. Chen, X.-P. Guo, B. Huang, Z.-Q. Liu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4592–4600.
- [39] L. Wang, M. Ma, C. Zhang, H.-H. Chang, Y. Zhang, L. Li, H.-Y. Chen, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202317220.
- [40] W. Li, Y. Ding, Y. Zhao, Z. Li, G. Lin, L. Wang, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202505924.
- [41] W. Shao, Z. Xing, X. Xu, D. Ye, R. Yan, T. Ma, Y. Wang, Z. Zeng, B. Yin, C. Cheng, S. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 27486– 27498.
- [42] Y. Liu, W. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 985–986.
- [43] Z. Xu, W. Zuo, Y. Yu, J. Liu, G. Cheng, P. Zhao, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *11*, 2306758.
- [44] G. Liu, T. Nie, Z. Song, X. Sun, T. Shen, S. Bai, T. Yu, L. Zheng, Y.-F. Song, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2411284.
- [45] M.-K. Song, S. D. Namgung, H. Lee, J. H. Yoon, Y.-W. Song, K. H. Cho, Y.-S. Lee, J.-S. Lee, K. T. Nam, J.-Y. Kwon, *Nano Res.* **2023**, *16*, 858–864.
- [46] L. Fu, S. Wang, J. Cai, H. Huang, F. Yang, S. Xie, *Chemical Synthesis.* **2024**, *4*, 8.
- [47] X. Zou, Z. Li, Q. Liang, F. Liu, T. Xu, K. Song, Z. Jiang, W. Zhang, W. Zheng, *Nano Lett.* **2024**, *24*, 16151–16158.

Manuscript received: April 27, 2025 Revised manuscript received: June 26, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: July 17, 2025 Version of record online: July 30, 2025