---
source: Fu 等 - 2024 - Ru Nanoparticles Encapsulated by Defective TiO2 Boost the Hydrogen Oxidation Evolution R.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 21.074s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:53:50.569064Z
---

# **Ru Nanoparticles Encapsulated by Defective TiO2 Boost the Hydrogen Oxidation/ Evolution Reaction**

*Xiuting Fu, Xiaoxiao Huang, Yaping Cen, Xiaoyang Ren, Li Yan, Shao Jin,\* Zhongbin Zhuang, Wanlu Li,\* and Shubo Tian\**

**The development of efficient and durable electrocatalysts for the alkaline hydrogen oxidation/evolution reaction is crucial for anion exchange membrane fuel cells/water electrolyzers. However, designing such electrocatalysts poses a challenge due to the need for optimizing various adsorbates. Herein, highly dispersed Ru nanoparticles catalysts is reported encapsulated and supported by defective anatase phase of titanium dioxide (named as Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A)) for boosting hydrogen-cycle electrocatalysis with robust anti-CO-poisoning in alkaline conditions. The Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) achieves a high-quality activity of 7.65 A mgRu <sup>−</sup>1, which is 23.2 and 9.5-fold higher than commercial Ru/C and Pt/C in alkaline HOR. Moreover, this catalyst exhibits an outstanding overpotential of 21 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in alkaline HER. Hydrogen underpotential deposition (Hupd) and CO stripping experiments demonstrate that Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) has the optimized H\*, OH\*, and CO\* adsorption strength, enabling the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst to display excellent and robust HOR/HER performance under alkaline conditions. Using density functional theory calculations, the enhanced HOR performance mechanism for the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst originates from the TiO2 step face in contact with the Ru nanoparticles, indicating that the kinetics of water formation are considerably more favorable at the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) interface.**

X. Fu, X. Huang, Y. Cen, X. Ren, L. Yan, S. Jin, S. Tian International Joint Bioenergy Laboratory of Ministry of Education State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering College of Chemistry

Beijing University of Chemical Technology

Beijing 100029, China

E-mail: [jinshao@mail.buct.edu.cn;](mailto:jinshao@mail.buct.edu.cn)[tianshubo@mail.buct.edu.cn](mailto:tianshubo@mail.buct.edu.cn)

Z. Zhuang

State Key Laboratory of Organic-Inorganic Composites Beijing University of Chemical Technology

Beijing 100029, China

W. Li

Aiiso Yufeng Li Family Department of Chemical and Nano Engineering University of California San Diego

CA 92093, USA

E-mail: [wal019@ucsd.edu](mailto:wal019@ucsd.edu)

W. Li

Program in Materials Science and Engineering University of California San Diego CA 92093, USA

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202406387>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202406387**

#### **1. Introduction**

With the increasing prominence of environmental concerns and energy crisis,[\[1\]](#page-7-0) as a low-carbon energy carrier, H2 is recognized as a viable alternative to traditional fossil fuels.[\[2\]](#page-7-0) In order to achieve efficient reversible hydrogen generation and utilization for a successful hydrogen economy, extensive research has been conducted on hydrogen electrode reactions.[\[3,4\]](#page-7-0) Specifically the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in water electrolysis and the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in fuel cells.[\[5–7\]](#page-7-0) Alkaline fuel cell/water electrolyzer anion exchange membrane has been developed rapidly due to their more favorable reaction conditions compared to proton exchange membrane fuel cells,[\[8,9\]](#page-7-0) and its development has led to growing interest in HOR/HER activities in alkaline media.[\[10,11\]](#page-7-0) However, the HOR/HER activities of Pt-based catalysts in alkaline media have demonstrated two orders of magnitude lower than acidic media,[\[12–16\]](#page-7-0) posing a major obstacle for advancements in anion exchange membrane

fuel cells/water electrolyzers. Moreover, non-precious metal catalyst exhibits significantly inferior activity compared to precious metal.[\[17–19\]](#page-7-0) Therefore, it is crucial to develop highperformance electrocatalysts for alkaline HOR/HER that will contribute greatly toward the commercialization of alkaline exchange membrane-based fuel cells and alkaline water electrolysis.

From the volcano diagram of calculated hydrogen adsorption energies based on different transition metals, Ru with the suitable Ru─H/Ru─OH bond strength, is considered as the most promising alternatives to Pt in the HOR/HER reaction.[\[20–23\]](#page-7-0) However, many reported Ru-based catalysts of HOR/HER still lack sufficient performance for practical applications, particularly in the HOR. Balancing absorptions between hydrogen (Had) and hydroxyl (OHad) is recognized as a crucial factor in enhancing hydrogen electrocatalysis.[\[24,25\]](#page-7-0) For example, Liu et al. demonstrated the introduction of surface remodeling at the interface of RuRh clusters by a trace oxygenophilic metal, which can modulate the d-band center of RuRh clusters to obtain electrocatalysts with optimal OHBE.[\[26\]](#page-7-0) Additionally, Liu et al. reported the demonstration of an efficient alkaline HER catalyst (RuCo ANSs) by

16136289, 2024, 51, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202406387 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. a) Schematic diagram of the synthesis of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A); b) HRTEM image of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A); c) AC-STEM images of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A); d) XRD patterns of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A).

modulating Ru-H interactions.[27] Based on previous research findings, one representative strategy involves alloying Ru with transition metals to adjust the d-band center and optimize the H<sub>ad</sub> binding energy.<sup>[28,29]</sup> Another engineering approach focuses on tuning the surface oxophilicity of catalysts by introducing foreign atoms with high oxophilicity to optimize the OH<sub>ad</sub> binding energy. Recently, modulating crystallinity and hybrid nanostructures of catalysts have emerged as effective methods for tuning  $H_{ad}$  or  $OH_{ad}$  to improve intrinsic activity.<sup>[30,31]</sup> Despite extensive research on regulating H<sub>ad</sub> and OH<sub>ad</sub> individually, optimizing both H<sub>ad</sub> and OH<sub>ad</sub> simultaneously remains a significant challenge.

Herein, a bifunctional catalyst Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalysts with outstanding HOR/HER performance was synthesized by strong metal support interaction (SMSI) between metal Ru nanoparticles and TiO<sub>2</sub> [32,33] The catalyst exhibited significantly enhanced alkaline HOR/HER activity with a mass activity of 7.65 A mg<sub>Ru</sub><sup>-1</sup> in the HOR reaction and an exchange current density  $(j_o)$  of 2.01 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which was 1.47 and 2.62 times higher than that of Pt/C (1.36 mA cm $^{-2}$ ) and Ru/C (0.766 mA cm $^{-2}$ ), respectively. The Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) also showed a low overpotential of 122 mV at a higher current density of 250 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER, which was lower than Pt/C (171 mV) and Ru/C (204 mV). Experimental characterations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations demonstrated that TiO<sub>2</sub> step face in contact with the Ru nanoparticles structure with optimized H<sub>ad</sub>, OH<sub>ad</sub>, and CO<sub>ad</sub> adsorption boosts the HOR/HER reaction.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

Figure 1a illustrates the synthesis scheme of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalyst (Details are shown in the Supporting Information). The metastable phase of titanium dioxide nanosheets (def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(B)) was synthesized through a two-step process according to previous literature.[34] Firstly, the precursor of metastable phase of TiO2 nanosheets was synthesized by hydrothermal method. Subsequently, def-TiO2(B) with oxygen vacancy was obtained by pyrolytic reduction under 5% H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere at 250 °C. RuCl<sub>2</sub>·nH<sub>2</sub>O precursors solution was slowly dropped into an aqueous solution with dispersed def-TiO2(B) while continuously stirring at 65 °C until the solution evaporated. Finally, the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) was synthesized after annealing in a 5% H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere at 500 °C for 2 h. During the pyrolytic reduction process, def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) played a crucial role in preventing Ru from agglomerating to form larger nanoparticles due to its tendency to form SMSI with Ru metals. Additionally, the conventional TiO<sub>2</sub> (anatase phase) instead of def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) was used to synthesize the Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> as the control sample following the same method as that used for synthesizing Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A). And the particle size of Ru in the Ru NPs/com.TiO2 was found to be larger compared to that of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) (Figure S1, Supporting Information).

As shown in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(B) has an ultrathin nanolayered structure, which confers a larger specific surface area compared to traditional titanium dioxide

16136829, 2024, 51, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406387 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

(Figure S3 and Table S1, Supporting Information), thus conducive to uniform adhesion of Ru ions. The crystal structure of the sample was examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns. As shown in Figure [1d,](#page-1-0) the characteristic peaks of Ru and def-TiO2(B) are not observed before H2 annealing, implying that the Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> atoms are loaded on metastable phase of TiO2 in the form of single atoms. After calcination at 500 °C under a hydrogen atmosphere, the characteristic diffraction peaks of Ru and TiO2 appear. The peaks at 38.39°, 42.15°, 44.01°, 58.32°, 69.41°, 78.39°, and 82.22°, correspond to the (100), (002), (101), (102), (110), (103), (200) crystal plane of hexagonal close-packed (crystal system: P63/mmc) Ru (JCPDS #06-0663),[\[35\]](#page-8-0) respectively, indicating the formation of Ru NPs. The strongest characteristic peak located at 25.30° indicates that the metastable def-TiO2(B) is converted to the anatase phase,[\[36\]](#page-8-0) which is assigned to the exposed crystal surface (101) (JCPDS #99-0008). The XRD diffraction peaks' position of Ru NPs/com.TiO2 catalyst are consistent with Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) (Figure S4, Supporting Information), suggesting that Ru nanoparticles are similarly formed on commercial anatase TiO2 carriers.

The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) shows that after calcination under hydrogen, Ru3<sup>+</sup> ions are reduced and aggregate to form Ru nanoparticles (Ru NPs) with an average size of 2.32 nm uniformly dispersed on def-TiO2(A) support (Figure [1b;](#page-1-0) Figure S5, Supporting Information). At this temperature, Ru doesn't further aggregate into larger nanoparticles due to the presence of SMSI between Ru and def-TiO2(A). Spherical aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-STEM) reveals the structure of Ru NPs and def-TiO2(A) support; the lattice fringes of 0.209 nm and 0.341 nm can be assigned to Ru (002) and def-TiO2(A) (101) crystal plane,[\[37\]](#page-8-0) respectively (Figure [1c\)](#page-1-0). The Ru NPs are covered by an amorphous TiO2 thin layer and this phenomenon can be more easily observed at the margin of the clusters in Figure [1c](#page-1-0) (insert) (the red arrow). Meanwhile, this structure further inhibits the sintering of Ru NPs, which indicates the presence of SMSI between the Ru NPs and the TiO2 substrate.[\[33,38](#page-8-0)] According to the inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), the corresponding Ru content of the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) is 10.47 wt%.

The surface valence states and electron transfer of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). **Figures [2](#page-3-0)**c and S6 (Supporting Information) show the high-resolution Ru 3d core level XPS spectra of the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) and Ru NPs/com.TiO2 with the C 1s standard corrected characteristic absorption peak.[\[39,40\]](#page-8-0) The Ru 3d5/2 and Ru 3d3/2 can be further deconvoluted into two peaks for the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A). The Ru 3d5/2 peaks at 280.0 and 281.3 eV are assigned to the metallic Ru and Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> oxidation states, respectively, and the ratio of Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ru<sup>0</sup> is 0.56, which is shown that a large amount of Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> are reduced to Ru<sup>0</sup> by interacting with def-TiO2(A) carriers during H2 thermal reduction process, but a small amount of the oxidized state of Ru is still present. The two peaks located at 284.1 and 285.6 eV correspond to Ru<sup>0</sup> and Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> of Ru 3d3/2. [\[41\]](#page-8-0) As shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information), in the prepared Ru NPs/com.TiO2 catalyst, Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ru<sup>0</sup> decreased to 0.27, with a significant increase in the proportion of Ru0, consistent with the reduction of Ru to larger particles observed in TEM. Since the Ru 3d and C 1s orbital spectra overlap, the peaks at 284.8 and 288.1 eV are attributed to calibrated C. To explore the electron transfer between Ru NPs and the substrate def-TiO2(A), we treated def-TiO2(B) with the same calcination treatment at 500 °C under 5% H2/Ar as the comparison sample. As shown in Figure [2d,](#page-3-0) Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) displays a remarkable negative core level shift of the bonding energy of Ti 2p compared with def-TiO2(A), indicating the electrons transfer from Ru to Ti in the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) system. Due to the spectra overlap of the Ti 2p and Ru 3p, the characteristic absorption peak of Ru 3p can also be clearly observed in Figure S7 (Supporting Information).[\[42\]](#page-8-0) The spectra of O 1s for the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst is further deconvoluted to lattice O (OL, 530.1 eV, belonging to the Ti─O-Ti bond) and O vacancies (Ov, 532.0 eV), respectively (Figure S8, Supporting Information).[\[43\]](#page-8-0) Moreover, it can be seen in Figure S8 (Supporting Information) that the oxygen vacancy concentration in the Ru NPs/com.TiO2 catalyst is much lower than that in the prepared def-TiO2(A) carrier as well as in the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst. Due to the capture of unpaired electrons at oxygen vacancies, Figure S9, (Supporting Information) shows the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) with a gfactor of 2.003,[\[44\]](#page-8-0) revealing the formation of Ov during the hydrogen annealing processing, which is in agreement with the O 1s XPS result.

The local coordination environment of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) was analyzed by Synchrotron radiation-based X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) using Ru foil and RuO2 as comparison samples. The white line (WT) indicates the transitions from 1s to 4d and d-p hybrid-orbitals.[\[45\]](#page-8-0) The K-edge X-ray absorption nearedge structure (XANES) of Ru in Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) has a lower WT absorption intensity (Figure [2a\)](#page-3-0) like Ru foil, suggesting that the unoccupied state of Ru 5p orbital is lower. The Fourier transform (FT) k3-weighted extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) reveals the main peak is similar to Ru foil, the high-intensity peaks at 2.37 Å in the R-space belonging to the scattering characteristic peaks of the Ru-Ru coordination (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). The smaller diffraction peak at 1.47 Å is attributed to Ru─O bonds scattering,[\[37,46\]](#page-8-0) suggesting that a small amount of Ru present as the oxidized state, which is consistent with the XPS results. Quantitative coordination information from fitting result of Ru in Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalysts are summarized in Figures S10, S11, and Table S2 (Supporting Information). The coordination numbers of the Ru─Ru bond and Ru─O bond of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) are 6.8 and 2.2, respectively (Ru-Ru and Ru-O distances of 2.68 Å and 1.98 Å), indicating Ru possesses a lower coordination environment than Ru foil (Ru─Ru bond coordination number = 12 and distance of 2.72 Å). This difference implies that the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst has more unsaturated coordination sites that can promote electrocatalytic HER/HOR reactions. The corresponding wavelet transforms of EXAFS spectra (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0) further confirm the presence of Ru─Ru and Ru─O bonds in Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst.

The HOR electrocatalytic performance of the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) and reference samples of Ru/C, Pt/C, and Ru NPs/com.TiO2 catalysts was tested by a rotating disk electrode (RDE) using a standard three-electrode system in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution, with all potentials corrected to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) (Details of the experiment are shown in the Supporting Information). As shown in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-4-0) among the different samples, the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) exhibits the

16136829, 2024, 51, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406387 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Ru K-edge XANES spectra of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A), RuO2, and Ru foil; b) Fourier transform (FT) Ru K-edge spectra of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A), RuO2 and Ru foil; XPS spectra of the C 1s and Ru 3d c), Ti 2p and Ru 3p d) of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) and def-TiO2(A); e) Wavelet transformation for the Ru Kedge EXAFS signals of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A).

highest HOR catalytic performance for producing HOR current at the lowest potential. In contrast, the performance of commercial Ru/C and Ru NPs/com.TiO2 are inferior, suggesting the def-TiO2(A) substrate with defects has an outstanding contribution to the HOR performance of Ru NPs. The Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) is also tested in nitrogen atmosphere and the results show that the capacitance contribution to the HOR polarization curve is negligible. A sharp decrease in the current density of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) and Ru/C (at ≈ 0.1 V vs RHE) is probably due to the oxidation of metal Ru,[\[47\]](#page-8-0) originating from the disappearance of Ru─H bond, which is a typical phenomenon of Ru-based HOR electrocatalysts. We also test the LSV polarization curve at

16136289, 2024, \$1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406387 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for luces of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) HOR Polarization curves of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A), Ru/C, Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH at the rotation speed of 1600 rpm, Scan rate: 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>; b) HOR polarization curves of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalysts at different rotational speeds (from 900 to 3600 rpm); c) Tafel diagram of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub> (A), Ru/C, Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C catalyst; d) Relative current-time chronoamperometry graphs of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) and Pt/C catalysts in pure H<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub>-saturated containing 1000 ppm CO solution media; e) CO stripping curves of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A), Ru/C, and Pt/C; f) CV curves of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A), Ru/C, Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C catalysts in N<sub>2</sub> saturated 0.1 m KOH with a scanning rate of  $50 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$ .

different rotational speeds (900-3600 rpm); the limiting current density increases with increasing rotational speed (Figure 3b). As shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information), the HOR/HER polarization curves of the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalysts show a higher value at micro-polarized region (-5 - +5 mV). By linear fitting of the micro-polarized polarization region (±5 mv) using the Butler-Volmer equation, [48] the exchange current density (jo) of Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) is 2.01 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 1.47 and 2.62 times that of Pt/C (1.36 mA cm $^{-2}$ ), Ru/C (0.766 mA cm $^{-2}$ ) and Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> (0.423 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively. Figure 3c shows the kinetic current density (j<sub>k</sub>) fitted by Koutecky-Levich, [48] Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) shows the highest j<sub>k</sub> value at a random potential compared to Pt/C, Ru/C, and Ru NPs/com.TiO2. Subsequently, mass-normalized calculations of j<sub>k</sub> at the potential of 50 mV (vs RHE) reveals that the electrocatalytic activity of Ru NPs/def- $TiO_2(A)$  is 7.65 A  $mg_{Ru}^{-1}$ , which is 9.5 times, 156.1 times and 23.2 times higher than Pt/C (0.805 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$ ), Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub>  $(0.049 \text{ A mg}_{R_{\rm H}}^{-1})$  and Ru/C  $(0.330 \text{ A mg}_{R_{\rm H}}^{-1})$  catalyst (Figure \$13a, Supporting Information). More importantly, the mass normalized kinetic current density of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalysts remains at the top of the list compared to recently reported noble metal-based alkaline HOR catalysts (Figure \$13b and Table \$3, Supporting Information).

The anti-CO-poisoning test of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) was evaluated with commercial Pt/C as the comparison in Figure \$14.(Supporting Information) The HOR diffusion-limited current only decreased by 5% at 0.1 V in 0.1 M H2-saturated KOH containing 1000 ppm CO indicating that Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) has better resistance to CO poisoning than the commercial Pt/C catalysts (which decreased by 23%) in a short HOR test. The stability of the catalyst is a prominent issue for application in fuel cells. The HOR stability of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) and commercial Pt/C catalysts were tested by chronoamperometry method at 0.1 V (vs RHE) in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. As shown in Figure 3d, after 25000 s operation in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated atmosphere, the current density of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) decreased by 12.3% relative to the original current density, while commercial Pt/C catalyst decreased by 77.3%. In order to obtain intuitive resistance CO toxicity ability, the stability of the catalyst was also evaluated in the presence of 1000 ppm CO. The current density of the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalyst decreased by 41.6% after 10000 s, while the Pt/C was almost completely deactivated. The chronoamperometry tests show that the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalyst not only has excellent HOR activity, but also has outstanding effect in anti-CO toxicity, which completely surpasses the commercial Pt/C.

In alkaline HOR reactions, H<sub>2</sub> initially adsorbs onto the catalyst surface to form adsorbed hydrogen (\*H). This is followed by electron transfer, leading to H<sub>ad</sub> desorption to form H<sup>+</sup> or combining with adsorbed OH (\*OH) to form water, which subsequently leaves the catalyst surface. Therefore, the energies of \*H and \*OH species on the electrocatalyst surface are closely related to the catalytic activity in alkaline media. [49] CO stripping experiments were used to investigate the catalyst's resistance to CO toxicity and \*OH adsorption behavior. Since \*OH

16136289, 2024, \$1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406387 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for luces of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. a) HER LSV curves, corresponding; b) Tafel curves of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A), Ru/C, Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C; c) Normalized mass activity of metal Ru on Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) and overpotential at the current density of 250 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER; (d) Stability test for Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) measured in 1 M KOH at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

adsorption promotes the removal of CO, the lower the potential at which the stripping peak occurs indicates a stronger \*OH adsorption in alkaline electrolytes. As shown in Figure 3e, the potential of the CO oxidation peak of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalyst is more negative than Pt/C and Ru/C, indicating that the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalysts has better CO tolerance and proper \*OH adsorption in alkaline media. [50] The desorption of \*H is another key factor to regulate electrocatalytic activity. Through hydrogen underpotential deposition (H<sub>upd</sub>) experiment in N<sub>2</sub> saturated 0.1 M KOH solution, Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) exhibits a more negative hydrogen desorption potentials (0.08 V vs RHE) than Ru/C, Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C catalysts (Figure 3f). Although the position of the hydrogen underpotential deposition peak of Ru-based catalysts is affected by other adsorbates, such as \*OH, assuming that this factor has the same effect on ruthenium-based catalysts, these results indicate that Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) has the most suitable adsorption of hydrogen. [51-53] It is presumed to be partly due to the role of oxygen vacancies, lowering the reactive energy barrier of the Volmer step, which is the rate-determining step in the HOR reaction.<sup>[54]</sup> H<sub>upd</sub> and CO stripping experiments demonstrate that the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst facilitates the rapid detachment of adsorbed hydrogen in the HOR reaction compared to Pt/C and Ru/C. Additionally, proper \*OH adsorption favors the anti-CO performance, resulting in excellent HOR performance of the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalyst under alkaline conditions.

The electrochemical HER performance of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) was further investigated in N2-saturated 1.0 M KOH alkaline solution. Figure 4a shows the HER polarization curves of the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) with Pt/C, Ru/C and Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> as the comparison samples. The overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>  $(\eta_{10})$  of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) is only 21 mV and it also shows a low overpotential of 122 mV at a higher current density of 250 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER, which is lower than Pt/C (171 mV), Ru/C (204 mV) and Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> (213 mV) (Figure 4c, 85% IR drop compensation). The Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) exhibits the highest mass activity (0.456 A mg<sub>Ru</sub><sup>-1</sup> at  $\eta = 50$  mV), which is superior to Pt/C (0.166 A mg $_{\mathrm{Pt}}^{-1}$ ) catalyst, Ru/C (0.372 mA  $mg_{Ru}^{-1}$ ) catalyst and Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> (0.235 mA  $mg_{Ru}^{-1}$ ) catalyst. As depicted in Figure 4b, the Tafel slope of Ru NPs/def- $TiO_2(A)$  is 28.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is smaller than Pt/C (39.1 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), Ru/C (58.9 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and Ru NPs/com.TiO<sub>2</sub> (54.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) has the highest reaction kinetics.[55] Finally, the HER durability tests of Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) was performed on carbon paper by chronovoltammetry method at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, Figure 4d shows the overpotential almost unchanged during 200 h of operation, demonstrating that the Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) catalyst also possesses excellent stability in the alkaline HER process.

Moreover, the polarization and power density profiles of anion-exchange membrane fuel cells with Ru NPs/def-TiO<sub>2</sub>(A) and commercial Ru/C as anode catalysts under  $H_2/O_2$  conditions are

16136829, 2024, 51, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406387 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Optimized structures of the intermediates involved in the HOR reaction on different surfaces; b) Free energy profiles on different surfaces at U = 0.828 V; c) Enlarged views of H…OH distances on the Ru45/TiO2\_1, Ru45/TiO2\_2, and Ru45/TiO2\_3 surfaces, where blue is for Ru, grey is for Ti, red is for O, and white is for H.

shown in Figure S15. (Supporting Information) The Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst as an anode material for the fuel cell has a current density of 0.84 A cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.65 V, which is higher than that of commercial Ru/C catalysts. More importantly, the peak power density of the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst at a current of 2.6 A cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is close to 1 W, which is much higher than that of the commercial Ru/C catalyst.

To investigate the enhanced HOR performance mechanism of the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) catalyst, we performed DFT calculations. Based on observations from AC-STEM results, the interface was modeled using the anatase TiO2 (101) surface, consisting of four layers expanded by 3 × 4 to form a supercell structure. A step structure was created to accommodate Ru45 clusters and one-third of the O atoms on the step surface were removed to model a reduced surface and ensure close contact between the TiO2 surface and Ru NPs. The detailed model structure was shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information). We also tested the detailed reaction mechanism following the OHBE mechanism (oxophilicity theory) which was proved to be profound in Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) system. The thermodynamic Tafel-Volmer pathways of HOR carried out in alkaline environment are described as follows:

$$1/2 H_2 + * \rightarrow H *$$
 (1)

$$H * + OH^{-} \rightarrow (H ... OH) * + e^{-}$$
 (2)

$$(H \dots OH) * \rightarrow H_2O * \tag{3}$$

$$H_2O *\rightarrow H_2O (l) + *$$
 (4)

Based on the constructed model, we compared the HOR reaction process at different interfacial sites. As shown in **Figure 5**a, we examined the stepped surface of the Ru45 clusters in contact with TiO2 (Ru45/TiO2\_1), the top face of the Ru45 clusters in contact with TiO2 (Ru45/TiO2\_2), and the facets of the Ru45 clusters (Ru45/TiO2\_3), which can be considered as the pure Ru surface without the interface impact from TiO2. These three configurations were also compared with the traditional Ru(0001) surface. In the Ru45/TiO2\_1 and Ru45/TiO2\_2 configurations, the reaction occurs at the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) interface, where H\* is adsorbed on the Ru45 clusters and OH\* is adsorbed on the oxyphilic TiO2 surfaces, whereas both are adsorbed on the Ru sites in Ru45/TiO2\_3. According to Figure 5b, the rate-determining step for these two interfaces is derived from the OH\* adsorption step, with almost identical overpotentials of Ru45/TiO2\_1 (0.31 eV) and Ru45/TiO2\_2 (0.33 eV) when U = 0.828 V, respectively, suggesting a preferable Langmuir-Hinshelwood mechanism. Notably, the Ru45/TiO2\_1 interface has an optimized H\* adsorption energy of 0.35 eV with a bridged configuration, compared to the stronger "fcc" type interactions seen in other surfaces (-0.45 to 0.65 eV), as shown in Figure S17. (Supporting Information) The catalytic behavior of Ru45/TiO2\_3 closely resembles that of traditional Ru (0001), where the formation of H2O\* is highly energetically unfavorable compared to Ru45/TiO2\_1 and Ru45/TiO2\_2, resulting in high overpotentials of Ru45/TiO2\_3 (0.59 eV) and Ru0001 (0.51 eV). This disparity arises because the OH\* adsorption energies on Ru45/TiO2\_1 and Ru45/TiO2\_2 are optimized due to the reducible Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) interlayers, where OH\* is more weakly adsorbed onto Ti atoms than onto the Ru surface. Additionally, a closer examination of the H2O\* configurations reveals that the Ru45/TiO2\_3 and Ru (0001) surfaces exhibit long H2O…Ru distances <span id="page-7-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

without interaction, whereas the Ru45/TiO2\_1 and Ru45/TiO2\_2 surfaces maintain interactions between H2O and the metal interfaces. Based on the geometry shown in Figure [5c,](#page-6-0) we find that the H…OH distances in Ru45/TiO2\_1 and Ru45/TiO2\_2 are shorter than that in Ru45/TiO2\_3, indicating a kinetic preference for OH\* and H\* to form H2O\* species. Indeed, the energy barrier for H2O formation on the Ru45/TiO2\_3 surface is calculated to be 0.82 eV, in contrast to 0.44 eV on the Ru45/TiO2\_1 surface, indicating that the kinetics of water formation are considerably more favorable at the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) interface. Moreover, Figure S18 (Supporting Information) shows the free energy diagram of the alkaline HER pathway. It can be seen that the \*H desorption process is a rate-determining step. The comparison shows that the energy barrier for this step is the lowest in Ru45/TiO2\_1, which greatly accelerates the HER reaction kinetics.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In this work, we synthesized highly dispersed Ru nanoparticles with an average size of 2.23 nm encapsulated by an ultrathin TiO2 (def-TiO2(A)) substrate, achieving optimized \*H, \*OH, and CO\* adsorption for enhanced hydrogen-cycle electrocatalysis and robust anti-CO-poisoning in alkaline condition. CO stripping and hydrogen underpotential deposition (Hupd) experiments demonstrated that Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) exhibited balanced hydroxyl adsorption (OHad) strength and hydrogen adsorption (Had) strength by unique electron transfer from Ru to def-TiO2(A), giving the catalyst excellent HOR/HER electrocatalysis. It exhibited high activity of 7.65 A mgRu<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> which was 9.5-fold higher than commerical Pt/C. Moreover, It also possessed excellent HER performance in 1 M KOH solution with an overpotential only 21 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and the HER stability had almost no attenuation in 200 h @ 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. DFT calculations revealed that the kinetics of water formation were considerably more favorable at the Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A) interface and the adsorption and desorption behavior of H was regulated, which enhanced HOR/HER performance. This bifunctional catalyst (Ru NPs/def-TiO2(A)) holds great potential for applications in the field of AEMFCs and water electrolysis.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

X.F., X.H., and Y.C. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2021YFA1502200, 2023YFA1507400), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22101015) and Fundamental Research Funds of Beijing University of Chemical Technology (JD2429-1). This work used the computational resources from the Expanse supercomputer at the San Diego Super Computing Center (SDSC), through allocation CHM230035 and CHE230113. W.-L. Li acknowledges startup funding from the Jacob School of Engineering, UCSD.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

### **Keywords**

defective TiO2, hydrogen evolution reaction, hydrogen oxidation reaction, Ru nanoparticles

> Received: July 27, 2024 Revised: September 21, 2024 Published online: October 10, 2024

- [1] S. Lee, Y. J. Lee, G. Lee, A. Soon, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3171.
- [2] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. B. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [3] H. Zhao, D. Chen, R. Yu, J. Jiao, W. Zeng, J. Zhu, X. Mu, Y. Yao, D. Wu, Y. Zhang, J. Wu, S. Mu, *Nano Energy* **2024**, *121*, 109247.
- [4] L. Fu, F. Yang, Y. Hu, Y. Li, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Sci. Bull.* **2020**, *65*, 1735.
- [5] L. Li, S. Liu, C. Zhan, Y. Wen, Z. Sun, J. Han, T. S. Chan, Q. Zhang, Z. Hu, X. Huang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 157.
- [6] L. Zhang, Y. Jia, G. Gao, X. Yan, N. Chen, J. Chen, M. T. Soo, B. Wood, D. Yang, A. Du, X. Yao, *Chem* **2018**, *4*, 285.
- [7] C. Hu, Q. Ma, S. F. Hung, Z. N. Chen, D. Ou, B. Ren, H. M. Chen, G. Fu, N. Zheng, *Chem* **2017**, *3*, 122.
- [8] H. Chen, R. Tao, K. T. Bang, M. Shao, Y. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200934.
- [9] Y. Yang, P. Li, X. Zheng, W. Sun, S. X. Dou, T. Ma, H. Pan, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2022**, *51*, 9620.
- [10] S. Zhu, Z. Li, L. Hou, M. G. Kim, H. Jang, S. Liu, X. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2314899.
- [11] Z. Liang, H. Liu, S. Huang, M. Xing, Z. Li, S. Wang, L. Yang, D. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2023**, *11*, 849.
- [12] D. J. Weber, C. Dosche, M. Oezaslan, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 15415.
- [13] W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Héroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schüler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804.
- [14] Y. Sun, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, Y. Li, L. Gu, S. Guo, *Matter* **2023**, *6*, 193.
- [15] Y. Dong, Q. Sun, C. Zhan, J. Zhang, H. Yang, T. Cheng, Y. Xu, Z. Hu, C. W. Pao, H. Geng, X. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2210328.
- [16] L. Jiao, E. Liu, S. Hwang, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 8165.
- [17] J. T. Ren, L. Chen, H. Y. Wang, Y. Feng, Z. Y. Yuan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 3960.
- [18] T. Tang, L. Ding, Z. C. Yao, H. R. Pan, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107479.
- [19] G. Qian, Y. Wang, L. Li, M. Lu, C. Chen, D. Min, Z. Wei, P. Tsiakaras, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, 2404055.
- [20] Z. C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 5153.
- [21] J. Mahmood, F. Li, S. M. Jung, M. S. Okyay, I. Ahmad, S. J. Kim, N. Park, H. Y. Jeong, J. B. Baek, *Nat. Nanotechnol* **2017**, *12*, 441.
- [22] J. Fan, Y. Zhang, W. Liu, M. Li, Y. Cai, Q. Ji, Z. Zhao, G. Hou, A. Li, W. Zhou, L. Yu, D. Deng, *Matter* **2023**, *6*, 3877.
- [23] T. Wang, P. Wang, W. Zang, X. Li, D. Chen, Z. Kou, S. Mu, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107382.
- [24] L. Su, D. Gong, Y. Jin, D. Wu, W. Luo, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *66*, 107.
- [25] J. Fang, H. Wang, Q. Dang, H. Wang, X. Wang, J. Pei, Z. Xu, C. Chen, W. Zhu, H. Li, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 4236.
- [26] Y. Cui, Z. Xu, D. Chen, T. Li, H. Yang, X. Mu, X. Gu, H. Zhou, S. Liu, S. Mu, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *90*, 106579;

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [42] H. Shi, Y. Yang, P. Meng, J. Yang, W. Zheng, P. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, Z. Cheng, C. Zong, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 16619.
- [43] Y. Chen, R. Guan, X. Cheng, J. Zhao, Z. Wu, Y. Wang, Q. Shang, Y. Sun, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *455*, 140929.
- [44] J. Wan, W. Chen, C. Jia, L. Zheng, J. Dong, X. Zheng, Y. Wang, W. Yan, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1705369.
- [45] S. Liu, H. Tan, Y. C. Huang, Q. Zhang, H. Lin, L. Li, Z. Hu, W. H. Huang, C. W. Pao, J. F. Lee, Q. Kong, Q. Shao, Y. Xu, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2305659.
- [46] J. Park, H. Kim, S. Kim, S. Y. Yi, H. Min, D. Choi, S. Lee, J. Kim, J. Lee, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2308899.
- [47] X. Zhang, L. Xia, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208821.
- [48] D. Liu, S. Lu, Y. Xue, Z. Guan, J. Fang, W. Zhu, Z. Zhuang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *59*, 26.
- [49] L. An, X. Zhao, T. Zhao, D. Wang, *Energy. Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 2620.
- [50] Y. Duan, X. L. Zhang, F. Y. Gao, Y. Kong, Y. Duan, X. T. Yang, X. X. Yu, Y. R. Wang, S. Qin, Z. Chen, R. Wu, P. P. Yang, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, T. B. Lu, Z. Y. Yu, S. H. Yu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *135*, 202217275.
- [51] Y. Xue, L. Shi, X. Liu, J. Fang, X. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651.
- [52] H. Inoue, J. X. Wang, K. Sasaki, R. R. Adzic, *J. Electroanal.* **2003**, *77*, 554.
- [53] A. K. Engstfeld, S. Weizenegger, L. Pithan, P. Beyer, Z. Jusys, J. Bansmann, R. J. Behm, J. Drnec, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2021**, *389*, 138350.
- [54] Q. Wang, H. Wang, H. Cao, C. W. Tung, W. Liu, S. F. Hung, W. Wang, C. Zhu, Z. Zhang, W. Cai, Y. Cheng, H. B. Tao, H. M. Chen, Y. G. Wang, Y. Li, H. B. Yang, Y. Huang, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 916.
- [55] J. Kwon, S. Sun, S. Choi, K. Lee, S. Jo, K. Park, Y. K. Kim, H. B. Park, H. Y. Park, J. H. Jang, H. Han, U. Paik, T. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300091.

- [27] C. Cai, K. Liu, Y. Zhu, P. Li, Q. Wang, B. Liu, S. Chen, H. Li, L. Zhu, H. Li, J. Fu, Y. Chen, E. Pensa, J. Hu, Y. R. Lu, T. S. Chan, E. Cortés, M. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202113664.
- [28] G. Zhao, L. Xia, P. Cui, Y. Qian, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhao, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 4845.
- [29] J. Jiang, S. Tao, Q. He, J. Wang, Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2020**, *8*, 10168.
- [30] Y. H. Wang, X. T. Wang, H. Ze, X. G. Zhang, P. M. Radjenovic, Y. J. Zhang, J. C. Dong, Z. Q. Tian, J. F. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5708.
- [31] L. Yan, D. Wang, M. Li, R. Lu, M. Lu, P. Li, K. Wang, S. Jin, Z. Wang, S. Tian, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, 202410832.
- [32] Y. Zhang, W. Yan, H. Qi, X. Su, Y. Su, X. Liu, L. Li, X. Yang, Y. Huang, T. Zhang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1697.
- [33] J. Li, L. Zhang, X. An, K. Feng, X. Wang, J. He, Y. Huang, J. Liu, L. Zhang, B. Yan, C. Li, L. He, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202407025.
- [34] S. Tian, W. Gong, W. Chen, N. Lin, Y. Zhu, Q. Feng, Q. Xu, Q. Fu, C. Chen, J. Luo, W. Yan, H. Zhao, D. Wang, Y. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 5223.
- [35] P. Wang, Y. Yang, W. Zheng, Z. Cheng, C. Wang, S. Chen, D. Wang, J. Yang, H. Shi, P. Meng, P. Wang, H. Tong, J. Chen, Q. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 27867.
- [36] X. Tian, R. Ren, F. Wei, J. Pei, Z. Zhuang, L. Zhuang, W. Sheng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 76.
- [37] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.
- [38] X. Wang, A. Beck, J. A. van Bokhoven, D. Palagin, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 4044.
- [39] Y. Pi, Z. Qiu, Y. Sun, H. Ishii, Y. F. Liao, X. Zhang, H. Y. Chen, H. Pang, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2206096.
- [40] Z. Wei, Z. Zhao, J. Wang, Q. Zhou, C. Zhao, Z. Yao, J. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 10160.
- [41] J. Zhou, Z. Gao, G. Xiang, T. Zhai, Z. Liu, W. Zhao, X. Liang, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 327.