---
source: He 等 - 2025 - Atomically Modulating Metal‐Support Interactions by Isolated Co‐N4 Sites for Efficient Hy.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.312s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:57:40.246757Z
---

# **Atomically Modulating Metal-Support Interactions by Isolated Co-N4 Sites for Efficient Hydrogen Oxidation Catalysis**

*Keyi He, Shuangying Wei, Qian Zhou,\* Yong Zhang, Dongyang Li, Yilin Liu, Weiwei Cai, Fang Yu, and Haiqing Zhou\**

**Supported metal electrocatalysts with appropriate metal-support interactions (MSIs) show great potential for heterogeneous catalysis, however, precisely tuning the interactions at an atomic level remains a significant challenge. In this work, single-atom Co-N4 sites are introduced to tailor the interfaces between PtIr alloy clusters and carbonaceous substrates, thereby establishing highly active and stable catalysts toward hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline electrolytes and realizing atomically MSIs modulation. The experimental and theoretical results unveil that the formation of robust MSIs at the interfaces with the incorporation of Co single atoms is evidenced by the increased coordination number of Pt-N/C, which effectively optimizes the adsorption behaviors of Had on Pt/Ir atoms and also tightly immobilizes PtIr clusters on the supports. The incorporation of isolated Co-N4 sites greatly reduces the energy barrier of the rate-determining Volmer step, thereby accelerating the HOR reaction kinetics in alkaline electrolytes. Consequently, the optimal PtIr-Co0.05NC catalysts exhibit exceptional HOR activity with an exchange current density up to 13.1 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a kinetics current density of 28.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 50 mV in 0.1 m KOH. Furthermore, the PtIr-Co0.05NC electrocatalyst delivers negligible activity degradation due to the confinement effect of Co-functionalized carbon supports on PtIr clusters.**

**1. Introduction**

Alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) have sparked unprecedented interest for several advantages over proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), such as longer lifespan of the overall fuel cell devices, richer variety of electrocatalysts for the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction, and wider selectivity of the cell's constituent parts.[\[1–4\]](#page-7-0) However, the kinetics of the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) is sluggish in alkaline media owing to the presence of a large energy barrier for the Volmer step (M─Had + OH<sup>−</sup> → M + H2O + e<sup>−</sup>).[\[5\]](#page-8-0) Consequently, the alkaline HOR activity is far from satisfactory even for commercial Pt/C owing to weak adsorption of hydroxy species. Especially, the traditional Pt/C catalysts suffer from severe stability problems resulting from metal dissolution, Ostwald ripening, aggregation during continuous operations, and detachment from the substrates.[\[6,7\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, designing Pt-based catalysts with high HOR activity and outstanding stability is crucial for the application of AEMFCs.

Currently, supported metal catalysts are extensively investigated and applied in electrocatalysis.[\[8–10\]](#page-8-0) As an important and pioneering research field, the metal-support interactions (MSIs) can regulate the chemisorption and electronic

properties of supported species, which exerts a significant influence on catalytic activity and stability.[\[11,12\]](#page-8-0) For example, benefitting from the synergetic interactions, the alkaline HOR activity of Pt-based clusters/nanoparticles can be enhanced by introducing high oxophilic transition metal oxides or carbides as

K. He, Q. Zhou, Y. Zhang, D. Li, F. Yu, H. Zhou Key Laboratory of Low-Dimensional Quantum Structures and Quantum Control of Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Matter Microstructure and Function of Hunan

Province

Department of Physics and Synergetic Innovation Center for Quantum Effects and Applications Hunan Normal University

E-mail: [qzhou108@hunnu.edu.cn;](mailto:qzhou108@hunnu.edu.cn) [hqzhou@hunnu.edu.cn](mailto:hqzhou@hunnu.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202419609>

S. Wei

Department of Inorganic Chemistry University of Chemistry and Technology Prague Technická 5, 166 28 Prague 6, Prague 16628, Czech Republic

Y. Liu School of Mechanical Engineering University of South China Hengyang 421001, China W. Cai Sustainable Energy Laboratory

Faculty of Materials Science and Chemistry China University of Geosciences Wuhan 430074, China

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202419609**

Changsha 410081, China

1616392, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.afm-journal.de

supports,[13-16] in which the supports can optimize the adsorption behavior of H<sub>ad</sub> on Pt and also serve as hydroxyl species adsorption sites. It is noteworthy that the majority of supported electrocatalysts that are easy to fabricate up to now can be classified as the adhered type, whose interactions between the metal clusters/nanoparticles and supports are usually not strong enough to significantly enhance the catalytic properties and stability. Consequently, it is essential to create interfacial sites with strong metal-support interactions (SMSIs) for optimizing the chemisorption/electronic characteristics of catalysts and suppressing the migration of noble metal species. Unfortunately, the classic SMSIs are often accompanied by the encapsulation effect on metals under thermal reduction, which would result in blockage of metal active sites.[17] Therefore, ensuring the Pt clusters/nanoparticles are tightly immobilized on supports while simultaneously maximizing the exposure of surface active sites is urgently needed yet remains a great challenge. Furthermore, atomically tailoring the interactions is critical for understanding the structure-activity relationship and achieving rational catalyst design, which holds great potential for further exploration.

Single atom-decorated carbonaceous materials have attracted considerable attention owing to their high atomic utilization and distinctive electronic structures.[18-20] In addition to serving as catalysts themselves, single-atom materials can also function as substrates to prevent catalyst nanoparticles from agglomerating derived from strong interfacial interactions, and as cocatalysts to coordinate and promote catalytic reactions. For instance, Liu et al. reported that alloyed Pt-Fe nanoparticles anchored on Fe-N-C sites exhibited negligible deterioration even after 5000 cycles for ORR.[21] Sun et al. fabricated multifunctional single atoms Ni-N-C acted as both conductive supports and water adsorption/dissociation sites for engineering heterostructured Pt/Ni-N-C electrocatalysts toward alkaline HER.[22] Inspired by these reports, we hypothesize that enhancing the MSIs via precise regulation of single atoms with high oxophilicity on supports would be an effective strategy to achieve highly satisfactory catalytic activity and stability toward alkaline HOR for supported Pt-based catalysts.

Herein, we design and synthesize oxophilic single-atom Co-N<sub>4</sub> sites on porous carbon coupled with PtIr clusters for excellent HOR activity and stability in alkaline electrolytes. The experimental and theoretical calculation results demonstrate that the increased MSIs at the interfaces with the incorporation of Co single atoms (Co SAs) are evidenced by the higher coordination number of Pt-N/C, which effectively optimizes the adsorption of H<sub>ad</sub> on Pt/Ir atoms and also tightly fix the PtIr clusters on the supports. The incorporation of isolated Co-N<sub>4</sub> sites greatly reduces the energy barrier of the rate-determining Volmer step, thereby facilitating the HOR kinetics in the base. Benefiting from the synergistic cooperation of the CoNC supports and PtIr clusters, the optimized PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC catalysts yield exceptional alkaline HOR performance with exchange and kinetic current densities up to 13.1 and 28.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Further, PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC catalysts exhibit superior stability with negligible activity degradation after a continuous operation at 50 mV (vs RHE) for 10 h owing to the confinement effect of Co-functionalized carbon supports on PtIr clusters.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

Figure 1a schematically exhibits the preparation process for the PtIr-Co, NC catalyst (see Experimental Section for details, Supporting Information). Briefly, the single-atom Co on mesoporous nitrogen-doped carbon was fabricated by a facile and scalable impregnation-annealing method, which is denoted as Co, NC (x is the concentration of cobalt chloride solution and x = 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1). Subsequently, the alloyed PtIr nanoclusters were synthesized and anchored on Co, NC substrates through a mild chemical reduction method. Here, the selection of PtIr alloys in this work, rather than monometallic Pt, is motivated by the oxophilic properties of Ir, which are highly expected to optimize the adsorption behaviors of  $H_{\text{ad}}$  on Pt sites and enhance the anti-CO poisoning capability of Pt.[23,24] As can be observed from the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure 1b), three prominent peaks located at  $\approx 40^{\circ}$ ,  $46^{\circ}$ , and  $67.5^{\circ}$  can be assigned to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of PtIr alloy clusters. Besides, the diffraction peaks of PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC catalyst are broader than that of Pt/Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC, which can be attributed to the partial oxidation of surface Ir atoms. Moreover, no evident diffraction peaks belonging to Co particles can be observed in PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC, and the peaks of Co still do not appear as the content of cobalt rises (Figure S1, Supporting Information), which might be ascribed to the low crystalline of cobalt species. The morphology of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC catalyst was further characterized by high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), which shows a 2D ultrathin and flexible sheet structure loaded with some nanoclusters (Figure 1c). The nanoclusters exhibit a homogeneous dispersion with an average particle size of  $\approx$ 2 nm (Figure 1d). The atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM image clearly reveals the coexistence of Co SAs (bright dots) and PtIr clusters (Figure 1e). The Co SAs are well confined on the N-C substrate, which is tagged with yellow circles. Also, PtIr clusters with a particle size of ≈2 nm can be observed anchoring on the carbon support and lattice distance of 0.224 nm corresponding to the (111) plane of the face-center-cubic (fcc) phase of PtIr alloy. In comparison, the TEM image for Co-free PtIr-NC was collected. The PtIr clusters on Co-free PtIr-NC are homogeneously distributed on the NC substrates with dimensions of ≈2 nm (Figure S2, Supporting Information), which is very similar to the size of PtIr clusters on PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC. STEM elemental mapping of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC further manifests the successful construction of PtIr clusters and Co SAs on N-doped carbon (Figure 1f). According to the inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) results (Table S1, Supporting Information), the content of Pt, Ir, and Co in PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC catalyst are determined to be 5.6, 4.0, and 0.5 wt.%, respectively. In addition, the contents of Co in PtIr-Co<sub>0.01</sub>NC and PtIr-Co<sub>0.1</sub>NC catalysts are tested to be  $\approx 0.26$  and 0.87 wt.%, respectively.

To gain a deep understanding of the valence states, electronic structures and coordination configurations of the as-prepared PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC catalyst, we collected and analyzed the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES), and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy. As shown in Figure S3 (Supporting Information), the XPS spectrum of Co $_{0.1}$ NC not only displays peaks corresponding to Co $^{2+}$  and Co $^{3+}$ , but also shows a distinct peak for

16163028, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthetic process of PtIr-Co0.05NC. b) XRD patterns of PtIr-Co0.05NC, Pt-Co0.05NC, and Ir-Co0.05NC. c–e) HAADF-STEM image of PtIr-Co0.05NC. f) STEM element mappings for C, N, Co, Pt, and Ir. The inset of (d) is the corresponding size distribution chart of PtIr clusters.

metallic Co0 that is absent in the Co0.01NC and Co0.05NC samples. This indicates that Co species would aggregate into nanoparticles in the higher Co content substrate (Co0.1NC). As displayed in **Figure <sup>2</sup>**[a,](#page-3-0) the binding energy of Pt 4f7/2 in PtIr-Co0.05NC exhibits a significant positive shift by 0.3 eV compared with Co-free PtIr-NC catalyst, suggesting the reduced electron density around the Pt atoms due to embedding of Co SAs into carbon substrate. Besides, the Pt 4f in PtIr-Co0.05NC shows lower binding energy than that of monometallic Pt-Co0.05NC catalyst (Figure S4, Supporting Information), confirming the successful generation of PtIr alloy clusters rather than the physical mixture of Pt and Ir. Analogously, the peak of Ir 4f for PtIr-Co0.05NC shows a noticeable positive shift of 0.2 eV as compared to the Co-free PtIr-NC catalyst (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). Also, the Ir 4f spectrum of PtIr-Co0.05NC is positiveshifted by 0.34 eV compared to that of Ir-Co0.05NC (Figure S5, Supporting Information), demonstrating the electrons transfer from Ir to Pt after the formation of alloy, which is consistent with the XPS result of Pt 4f. As displayed in Figure [2c,](#page-3-0) the highresolution N 1s XPS spectrum of PtIr-Co0.05NC can be deconvoluted into pyridinic N (398.4 eV), pyrrolic N (399.5 eV), graphitic N (401.0 eV), quaternary N (402.5 eV), and oxidized N (405.3 eV). It is noteworthy that the peak of pyridinic N in catalysts shows a positive shift by 0.2 eV after incorporation of Co SAs, whereas the position of pyrrolic N peak remains invariable, implying that the pyridinic N coordinates with Co atoms to form Co-Nx species. The electronic interactions between supported metals and carbon

16163028, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Pt 4f, b) Ir 4f, and c) N 1s XPS spectra of PtIr-Co0.05NC and PtIr-NC. d) Co K-edge XANES spectra of PtIr-Co0.05NC and Co0.05NC with Co foil, CoO, and Co2O3 as references. e) Pt L3-edge XANES spectra of PtIr-Co0.05NC, PtIr-NC, and Pt-Co0.05NC with Pt foil and PtO2 as references. f) The *k*3-weighted Fourier transform of EXAFS spectra derived from (d). g) The *k*3-weighted Fourier transform of EXAFS spectra derived from (e). h) Wavelet transforms for the EXAFS spectra of PtIr-Co0.05NC, PtIr-NC, Pt foil, and PtO2.

substrates were further investigated by Co K and Pt L3-edge Xray absorption near-edge structure spectra (XANES). The XANES spectrum of Co K-edge is shown in Figure 2d, along with Co foil, CoO, and Co2O3 as references. The adsorption edge (highlighted in a dashed box) of PtIr-Co0.05NC is located between CoO and Co2O3, disclosing that the oxidation state of Co is between +2 and +3. Moreover, the negative shift of the adsorption edge for the PtIr-Co0.05NC catalyst compared with the carbon-based substrate Co0.05NC indicates the slight alternation in charge density around Co atoms after the deposition of PtIr species, further implying the strong interactions between PtIr species and Co0.05NC support. This observation is also evidenced by the Pt L3-edge XANES spectra (Figure 2e), where the Pt exhibits stronger white line intensity after the incorporation of Co SAs into carbon substrate, suggesting the significantly decreased 5d electron density of Pt in PtIr-Co0.05NC probably associated with the electron transfer from Pt to Co0.05NC substrates. In addition, the white intensity of PtIr-Co0.05NC is slightly decreased compared with the monometallic Pt-Co0.05NC catalyst, suggesting efficient electron transfer from Ir to Pt atom, which is in accordance with the XPS results. To gain a deep understanding of the electronic structures and local coordination environments, Co K and Pt L3-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra were collected and analyzed. In comparison to the reference sample of Co foil, no obvious scattering peak at the position of Co-Co coordination (2.18 Å) can be observed in the EXAFS spectrum of PtIr-Co0.05NC (Figure 2f), validating that the Co species are uniformly dispersed at an atomic level without any aggregation. Clearly, a scattering peak appearing at ≈1.60 Å can be ascribed to the Co-N/O path, further confirming the isolated Co species. As for the FT EX-AFS analysis of the Pt L3 edge, two prominent peaks with the features of Pt foil and PtO2 are corresponding to Pt-Pt and Pt-O

1616392, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

SCIENCE NEWS

www.afm-journal.de

coordination, respectively (Figure 2g). Apparently, the peak intensity of Pt-Pt/Ir bonds in PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC and PtIr-NC are significantly lower than that of Pt foil, indicating much fewer coordination numbers of Pt-Pt/Ir in PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC and PtIr-NC owing to the interactions between PtIr clusters and carbon-based substrates. To further differentiate the subtle distinctions, we collected the FT EXAFS results and quantitative fitting data as depicted in Figure S6 and Table S2 (Supporting Information). The dominant peaks located at 2.74 and 2.75 Å correspond to the Pt-Pt/Ir path of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC and PtIr-NC, respectively. It should be noted that the Co-Pt scattering path is not observed in the FT EXAFS pattern of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC, suggesting that Co and Pt are not directly coordinated but probably exert influence on each other through long-distance non-bonded electron interaction. Besides Pt-Pt, a slight peak located at ≈1.5 Å can be attributed to the coordination between Pt atom and light atoms. As shown in Figure 2h, the intense lobe at  $\approx$ 5 Å<sup>-1</sup> for PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC, which is a little lower K than that of PtO<sub>2</sub>, indicates that Pt coordinates with lighter atoms than O, i.e., C and/or N atoms (Pt-C/N). Clearly, the coordination number of Pt-C/N for PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC (1.05) is larger than that of Co-free PtIr-NC (0.75) (Table S2, Supporting Information), which indicates the generation of stronger metalsupport interaction after Co SAs incorporation and also greatly contributes to the stability of the PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC. To better illustrate this trend, we collected the FT EXAFS spectra and quantitative fitting data of PtIr-Co<sub>0.01</sub>NC and PtIr-Co<sub>0.1</sub>NC (Figure S7, Table S2, Supporting Information). Clearly, the coordination numbers of Pt-N/C follow the order: PtIr-NC (0.75)<PtIr- $Co_{0.01}NC (0.83) < PtIr-Co_{0.05}NC (1.05) \approx PtIr-Co_{0.1}NC (1.07)$ , suggesting that the MSIs initially increase and then plateaus as the cobalt content rises.

The HOR electrocatalytic performance of the as-fabricated PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC electrocatalysts was studied using a typical threeelectrode device and a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in H2saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytes. For comparison, the Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC, PtIr-NC, PtRu/C, commercial Pt/C, and Ir/C electrocatalysts were also measured. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves, acquired at a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm, are displayed in Figure 3a. The PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC catalyst yields the highest current density across both kinetic and diffusion-limiting regions in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated media, and shows negligible anodic current in N2-saturated solutions (Figure S8, Supporting Information), demonstrating its outstanding HOR performance. Specifically, the current density of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC is 2.59 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a potential of 50 mV, much higher than that of Co-free PtIr-NC (1.97 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating that Co atoms play a pivotal role in enhancing the HOR activity of supported PtIr clusters. Meanwhile, the current density of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC at 50 mV is even higher than those of the benchmark commercial Pt/C (1.97 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ir/C (0.41 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and PtRu/C (0.92 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure S9, Supporting Information). Further, the HOR performance is closely associated with the Co loading evidenced by the ascending order of current densities at 50 mV for PtIr-NC, PtIr-Co $_{0.01}$ NC, and PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC (Figures S10 and \$11, Supporting Information), probably related to the variation of support-metal interactions between PtIr clusters and Co, NC supports that are represented by the coordination numbers of Pt-C/N. As expected, the alloyed PtIr clusters possess significantly faster HOR kinetics compared to the monometallic Pt

and Ir-based electrocatalysts, showing much higher current density (2.59 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) than those of Pt-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC (1.83 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Ir-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC (1.39 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) at 50 mV (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The polarization curves of all the electrocatalysts were examined as a function of rotating speed, ranging from 400 to 3600 rpm. Apparently, the limiting current densities increase with the rise of rotation rates owing to the improved mass transportation (Figure 3b; Figure S13, Supporting Information). A linear relationship exists between the inverse of kinetic current density and the square root of the rotation rate at 25 mV in the Koutecky-Levich plots for all the as-synthesized catalysts (Figure S14, Supporting Information). As presented in Figure 3c, the slope is calculated to be  $4.32 \text{ cm}^2 \text{ mA}^{-1} \text{ s}^{-1/2}$ for PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC, close to the theoretical value for two-electron HOR (4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>). In addition, the HOR kinetics current densities  $(j_k)$  are estimated, and then the exchange current densities  $(i_0)$  are collected by fitting the kinetic current with the Butler-Volmer equation (Figure 3d; Table S3, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 3e, the geometric  $j_k$  of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC reaches 28.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV, which is significantly larger than those of PtIr-NC (9.24 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), commercial Ir/C (0.68 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (7.14 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). The excellent performance of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC is also evidenced by the  $j_0$ . The PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC delivers the highest geometric  $j_0$ of 13.1 mA  $cm^{-2}$  (Figure 3e), which is 3.3, 32.0 and 4.9 times higher than those of PtIr-NC (3.95 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), commercial Ir/C (0.41 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (2.67 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively, ranking top level among the Pt-group-metal based electrocatalysts reported hitherto (Figure 3f). In addition, the intrinsic HOR activities were evaluated based on the polarization curves normalized by the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) (Figure \$15, Supporting Information) as well as noble metal mass loading. As displayed in Figure S11 and Table S4 (Supporting Information), the PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC catalyst exhibits ECSA-normalized exchange current density ( $j_{0,ECSA}$ ) of 0.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>PGM</sub>, which is significantly higher than that of PtIr-NC (0.25 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>PGM</sub>), commercial Pt/C (0.097 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>PGM</sub>) and commercial PtRu/C (0.15 mA  $\text{cm}^{-2}_{\text{PGM}}$ ). The noble metal mass loading-normalized exchange current density  $(j_{0.m})$  of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC can reach as high as 0.67 mA  $\mu g^{-2}_{PGM}$ , further highlighting its exceptional HOR catalytic performance (Table S3, Supporting Information). The outstanding  $j_{0, {\rm ECSA}}$  and  $j_{0, {\rm m}}$  endows PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC with a pronounced competitive superiority over those noble metal-based catalysts reported to date. The aforementioned results strongly indicate that embedding appropriate isolated Co SAs can significantly accelerate HOR kinetics.

Inspired by the superior HOR performance of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC, we assembled a membrane electrode assembly (MEA) using commercial Pt/C as the cathodic oxygen reduction catalyst  $(0.3 \,\mathrm{mg_{Pt}\,cm^{-2}})$  and PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC as the anodic HOR catalyst with a mass loading of  $0.2 \, \text{mg}_{\text{Pt+Ir}} \, \text{cm}^{-2}$ . The fuel cell with PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC anode catalyst achieves a decent peak power density (PPD) of 500 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of the cell with  $Pt/C_{com}$  as the anode catalyst (412 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Figure 3g displays the HER polarization curves of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC, PtIr-NC, and commercial Pt/C in 0.1 м KOH electrolytes. Accordingly, PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC shows the best HER performance with an overpotential of 39 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is much lower than those of

1616392, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.afm-journal.de

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrochemical HOR performance of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC and other controlled catalysts. a) Geometric area-normalized polarization curves in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solutions (rotating speed: 1600 rpm, scan rate: 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup>). b) Polarization curves of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC with various rotation speeds. c) The Koutecky-Levich curve of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC at 50 mV (vs RHE). d) Calculated HOR kinetic current densities ( $j_k$ ) versus potential curves. e) Comparison of  $j_0$  and  $j_k$  at 50 mV (vs RHE). f) Comparison of HOR performance between PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub> NC and recently reported platinum-group-metal-based catalysts (see Table S3, Supporting information). g) HER polarization plots in 0.1 M KOH media (rotating speed: 1600 rpm, scan rate: 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>). h,i) Relative chronoamperometry response at 50 mV (vs RHE) operated on RDE in (h) pure  $H_2$  and (i) 2000 ppm CO/ $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytes.

PtIr-NC (53 mV) and Pt/C (108 mV). The Tafel slopes of PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC are 41.07 and 56.04 mV dec $^{-1}$  in 1.0 and 0.1 m KOH solutions, respectively, which are much lower than other controlled catalysts in our work and most of the Pt-based catalysts reported previously (Figure S17 and Table S5, Supporting Information), implying fast HOR kinetics of PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC. The outstanding alkaline HOR and HER performance of PtIr-Co $_{0.05}$ NC strongly corroborate the viability of the proposed electrocatalyst design strategy for efficient hydrogen catalysis in alkaline media.

Besides catalytic activity, long-term stability is considered as another pivotal parameter for evaluating advanced catalysts. As shown in Figure 3h, PtIr-NC and Pt/ $C_{\rm com}$  suffer distinct activity decay with current densities decrease of 16.8% and 17.3%, respectively, after 10 h operation at 50 mV (vs RHE). In contrast, a negligible deterioration of current density ( $\approx$ 4.7%) is observed for PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC during continuous operation, manifesting the

notably improved long-term stability of PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC in comparison to that of Pt/C<sub>com</sub> and Co-free PtIr-NC catalysts. Additionally, as the Co loading increases, the stability of PtIr-Co, NC initially exhibits a rise followed by a gradual decline (Figure \$18, Supporting Information), which can be supported by the TEM, XRD, and XPS analysis after stability tests. The agglomeration of PtIr clusters within the PtIr-NC and PtIr-Co<sub>0.1</sub>NC catalysts are markedly more pronounced compared to that in PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC catalyst (Figure S19, Supporting Information), corroborating that the Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC substrate possesses the strongest confinement effect to PtIr clusters. By comparing the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the characteristic XRD peaks for all samples before and after the stability tests, it is noticeable that the decrease in FWHM of the characteristic peak for the PtIr-Co<sub>0.05</sub>NC is less pronounced compared to the samples with other cobalt contents (Figure S20, Supporting Information), further confirming that

16163028, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) HUPD electrochemical desorption curves. b) CO-stripping curves. c) The differential charge density for PtIr-Co0.05NC. The isosurface value is set to 0.02 e Å<sup>−</sup>3. The yellow and blue regions indicate the charge accumulation and dispersion, respectively, respectively. d) Calculated Had adsorption free energies on the Pt and Ir sites. e) Gibbs free energy diagrams of alkaline HOR on the surfaces of PtIr-Co0.05NC and PtIr-NC.

the agglomeration of supported PtIr clusters is not so severe in PtIr-Co0.05NC for HOR. The chemical valence states of PtIr-CoxNC after the stability test were further investigated by XPS (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The invariant Pt 4f and Ir 4f XPS spectra of PtIr-CoxNC before and after the stability test indicate these catalysts do not undergo serious electrochemical oxidation during the stability test. Besides, the long-term stability test of PtIr-Co0.05NC was also carried out with carbon paper as the conductive support with showing 0.5% and 23% decay in current density after 50 and 100 h operation (Figure S22, Supporting Information), further verifying the superb stability. Such superior stability of PtIr-Co0.05NC can be ascribed to the confinement effect of Co-functionalized carbon substrates on PtIr clusters, which can effectively mitigate the agglomeration and degradation of PtIr clusters during the HOR process. The anti-poisoning ability of CO is also an important consideration for HOR catalysts in commercial AEMFCs powered by H2 fuel derived from industrial reforming gas. The CO tolerance of PtIr-Co0.05NC and commercial Pt/C were measured by collecting chronoamperometry plots in H2/2000 ppm CO-saturated KOH solutions at 50 mV. Specifically, the current density of Pt/Ccom sharply decreases to 40.8% after 2000 s continuous operation (Figure [3i\)](#page-5-0), whereas the PtIr-Co0.05NC remains at 70.6% of its initial current density under the same testing condition. Besides testing on the RDE system, we also conducted the CO poisoning resistance test on the gas diffu-

sion electrode (GDE). The HOR current density of PtIr-Co0.05NC shows a decent decay of 24.4% after 1000 s continuous operation under 4000 ppm CO/H2, much lower than those of Pt/Ccom (80.1%) and PtIr-NC (56.2%) (Figure S23, Supporting information). The outstanding CO-tolerance of PtIr-Co0.05NC is ascribed to its strong capacity for hydroxyl adsorption by introducing oxophilic Co and Ir, which would oxidize CO to form CO2, and thus minimizing the CO blocking of the adjacent Pt active sites.[\[25,26\]](#page-8-0)

To gain a thorough understanding of the catalytic HOR process, electrochemical desorption plots of hydrogen underpotential deposition (HUPD) and CO stripping curves for different samples were acquired since they are compelling electrochemical tools for exploring the adsorption/desorption behavior of Had and OHad on noble metal-based electrocatalysts.[\[5,27\]](#page-8-0) It is widely acknowledged that the lower HUPD peak indicates weaker hydrogen binding strength.[\[28,29\]](#page-8-0) As shown in **Figure 4**a, the desorption peak position of PtIr-Co0.05NC (0.259 V) is lower than those of PtIr-NC (0.27 V) and Pt/Ccom (0.327 V), revealing that binding strength of Had on PtIr-Co0.05NC surface is attenuated compared with PtIr-NC and Pt/Ccom. With regard to OHad, it cannot be directly monitored via electrochemical measurements due to no electron transfer between Had and OHad. Therefore, CO stripping tests were conducted to investigate the strength of OH binding on the electrocatalysts since anodic current can only be derived from CO oxidation with reactive OHad. [\[30,31\]](#page-8-0) As presented

<span id="page-7-0"></span>in Figure [4b,](#page-6-0) the oxidation peaks of these three samples can be observed in the first CV curve (solid line) but disappear in the second CV curve (dash line) collected in N2 atmosphere, suggesting that the recorded anodic current comes from CO oxidation. Notably, the CO oxidation peak of PtIr-Co0.05NC is positioned at 0.68 V (vs RHE), which is substantially lower than that of Pt/Ccom (0.72 V) and PtIr-NC (0.95 V) (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0), indicating the stronger binding strength with OHad for PtIr-Co0.05NC. The enhanced interaction between OHad and PtIr-Co0.05NC might be derived from the introducing of oxophilic cobalt species.

DFT calculations were employed to further elucidate the underlying factors contributing to the heightened intrinsic activity of the PtIr-Co0.05NC catalyst toward alkaline HOR. According to experimental analysis, two slab models consisting of Pt7Ir6 clusters deposited on the CoNC and Co-free NC substrates were performed to simulate the structures of PtIr-Co0.05NC and PtIr-NC. In Figure [4c,](#page-6-0) the differential charge density distributions show the accumulation of electrons between the carbon atoms and its adjacent Pt/Ir atoms, indicating the existence of interactions between C/N and Pt/Ir atoms at the cluster-substrate interface, which plays a crucial role in stabilizing the PtIr clusters on CoxNC substrate. In order to provide further insight into the physical origins of the superior intrinsic activity, we calculated the adsorption-free energies of Had on Pt and Ir sites in PtIr-Co0.05NC and PtIr-NC (Figure S24, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [4d,](#page-6-0) the incorporation of Co SAs could significantly increase the adsorption energy of Had on both Pt and Ir sites, implying weak hydrogen adsorption. In particular, the Pt site in the PtIr-Co0.05NC possesses the most optimal Δ*G*\*H of −0.16 eV among all the models, closely approaching the optimal value for hydrogen catalysis (0 eV), which surpasses those of Pt (−0.34 eV) and Ir (−0.41 eV) sites in PtIr-NC. Therefore, introducing Co SAs into the substrates reduces the adsorption of Had on PtIr clusters, which is consistent with the results of HUPD tests. The whole reaction pathway from H2 to H2O is shown in Figure [4e,](#page-6-0) where the Volmer step is considered as a rate-determining step. The reaction barriers of the Volmer step are calculated to be 0.06 and 0.26 eV on PtIr-Co0.05NC (Pt site) and PtIr-NC (Pt site), respectively. Meanwhile, the reduced reaction barrier can also be observed on Ir sites from 0.39 to 0.18 eV after Co SA incorporation. Apparently, the Pt atom in the PtIr-Co0.05NC possesses the lowest reaction barrier, which probably acts as the most active sites for the HOR. Thus, the incorporation of isolated Co SAs into the carbon substrates could largely reduce the reaction barrier of the Volmer step for supported PtIr clusters, resulting in faster kinetics of HOR. The experimental and theoretical calculation results above collectively manifest that the presence of Co SAs enhances the interactions between carbon substrates and supported PtIr clusters, and effectively modulates the electronic structure of PtIr alloys, thereby optimizing binding strengths of Had on PtIr-Co0.05NC catalyst and greatly contributing to the accelerated HOR kinetics.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we successfully fabricated a class of isolated Co-N4 species coupling with PtIr alloy nanoclusters on nitrogendoped carbon substrates as an exceptional electrocatalyst for HOR in alkaline electrolytes. The optimal PtIr-Co0.05NC catalyst exhibits superb HOR activity with an exchange current density as high as 13.1 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and impressive stability. Our experimental and theoretical results unveil that the formation of robust MSIs at the interfaces with the incorporation of Co SAs is evidenced by the increased coordination number of Pt-N/C, which effectively optimizes the adsorption behaviors of Had on Pt/Ir atoms and greatly reduces the energy barrier of rate-determining Volmer step, thereby accelerating the HOR kinetics in basic media. Meanwhile, the increased Pt-C/N coordination number after Co SA incorporation effectively alleviates the migration and coalescence of Pt atoms for a significantly improved stability. This work shows the importance of MSIs regulation in designing high-performance electrocatalysts for alkaline hydrogen oxidation.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 52302248, 52172197, and 22309051), the Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province (2023JJ40427), the Youth 1000 Talent Program of China, Science and Technology Innovation Platform (Nos. 2021RC2075), the Major Projects "Takes the Lead" of National Science Foundation of Hunan Province (No. 2021JC0008) and the Interdisciplinary Research Program (No. 2023JC201) of Hunan Normal University in Changsha of P. R. China.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

hydrogen oxidation reaction, isolated Co-N4 site, metal-support interactions, platinum-group catalyst

> Received: October 16, 2024 Revised: January 22, 2025 Published online: February 24, 2025

16163028, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] F. Xiao, Y. C. Wang, Z. P. Wu, G. Y. Chen, F. Yang, S. Q. Zhu, K. Siddharth, Z. J. Kong, A. L. Lu, J. C. Li, C. J. Zhong, Z. Y. Zhou, M. H. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006292.
- [2] B. H. Zhang, G. Q. Zhao, B. X. Zhang, L. X. Xia, Y. Z. Jiang, T. Y. Ma, M. X. Gao, W. P. Sun, H. G. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400.
- [3] C. Y. Yang, J. C. Yue, G. Q. Wang, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202401453.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202419609 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [4] P. Y. Han, X. Y. Yang, L. Q. Wu, H. N. Jia, J. C. Chen, W. W. Shi, G. Z. Cheng, W. Luo, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2304496.
- [5] J. Zheng, W. C. Sheng, Z. B. Zhuang, B. J. Xu, Y. S. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501602.
- [6] C. Lafforgue, F. Maillard, V. Martin, L. Dubau, M. Chatenet, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 5613.
- [7] F. Xiao, Y. Wang, G. L. Xu, F. Yang, S. Q. Zhu, C. J. Sun, Y. D. Cui, Z. W. Xu, Q. L. Zhao, J. Jang, X. Y. Qiu, E. R. Liu, W. S. Drisdell, Z. D. Wei, M. Gu, K. Amine, M. H. Shao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 20372.
- [8] L. Y. Zeng, Z. L. Zhao, Q. Z. Huang, C. H. Zhou, W. X. Chen, K. Wang, M. G. Li, F. X. Lin, H. Luo, Y. Gu, L. Li, S. P. Zhang, F. Lv, G. Lu, M. C. Luo, S. J. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 21432.
- [9] D. Q. Liu, Z. X. Luo, B. X. Zhang, G. Q. Zhao, W. Guo, J. Chen, M. X. Gao, Y. F. Liu, H. G. Pan, W. P. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2202913.
- [10] G. Q. Zhao, P. Li, N. Y. Cheng, S. X. Dou, W. P. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000872.
- [11] J. C. Matsubu, S. Y. Zhang, L. DeRita, N. S. Marinkovic, J. G. G. Chen, G. W. Graham, X. Q. Pan, P. Christopher, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 120.
- [12] M. Xu, M. Peng, H. L. Tang, W. Zhou, B. T. Qiao, D. Ma, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 2290.
- [13] G. Q. Zhao, L. X. Xia, P. X. Cui, Y. M. Qian, Y. Z. Jiang, Y. Zhao, H. G. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. P. Sun, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 4845.
- [14] B. M. Stühmeier, S. Selve, M. U. M. Patel, T. N. Geppert, H. A. Gasteiger, H. A. El-Sayed, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 5534.
- [15] E. R. Hamo, R. K. Singh, J. C. Douglin, S. A. Chen, M. Ben Hassine, E. Carbo-Argibay, S. F. Lu, H. N. Wang, P. J. Ferreira, B. A. Rosen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 932.
- [16] Y. T. Yang, Q. M. Dai, L. Y. Shi, Y. Liu, T. T. Isimjan, X. L. Yang, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *13*, 2107.
- [17] W. J. Wang, C. Li, C. Zhou, X. Xiao, F. Y. Li, N. Y. Huang, L. Li, M. Gu, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202406947.

- [18] L. L. Han, H. Cheng, W. Liu, H. Q. Li, P. F. Ou, R. Q. Lin, H. T. Wang, C. W. Pao, A. R. Head, C. H. Wang, X. Tong, C. J. Sun, W. F. Pong, J. Luo, J. C. Zheng, H. L. L. Xin, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 681.
- [19] K. L. Zhang, Q. L. Meng, H. H. Wu, J. Yan, X. L. Mei, P. F. An, L. R. Zheng, J. Zhang, M. Y. He, B. X. Han, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 20834.
- [20] H. B. Zhao, R. F. Yu, S. C. Ma, K. Z. Xu, Y. Chen, K. Jiang, Y. Fang, C. X. Zhu, X. C. Liu, Y. Tang, L. Z. Wu, Y. Q. Wu, Q. K. Jiang, P. He, Z. P. Liu, L. Tan, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 818.
- [21] X. Ao, W. Zhang, B. T. Zhao, Y. Ding, G. Nam, L. Soule, A. Abdelhafiz, C. D. Wang, M. L. Liu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3032.
- [22] P. Li, G. Q. Zhao, P. X. Cui, N. Y. Cheng, M. M. Lao, X. Xu, S. X. Dou, W. P. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *83*, 105850.
- [23] J. M. Wang, B. X. Zhang, X. Z. Zheng, X. R. Liu, W. Guo, Z. X. Luo, Y. F. Liu, M. X. Gao, J. Chen, Z. B. Zhuang, H. G. Pan, W. P. Sun, *Nano Res.* **2024**, *17*, 6147.
- [24] D. J. Long, Y. D. Liu, X. Y. Ping, F. D. Chen, X. X. Tao, Z. Y. Xie, M. J. Wang, M. Wang, L. Li, L. Guo, S. G. Chen, Z. D. Wei, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 8105.
- [25] J. F. Ruan, Y. P. Chen, G. Q. Zhao, P. Li, B. X. Zhang, Y. Z. Jiang, T. Y. Ma, H. G. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. P. Sun, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2107067.
- [26] B. X. Zhang, J. M. Wang, G. M. Liu, C. M. Weiss, D. Q. Liu, Y. P. Chen, L. X. Xia, P. Zhou, M. X. Gao, Y. F. Liu, J. Chen, Y. S. Yan, M. H. Shao, H. G. Pan, W. P. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2024**, *7*, 441.
- [27] H. A. Miller, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, A. Zadick, L. Dubau, M. Chatenet, S. Geiger, S. Cherevko, H. Doan, R. K. Pavlicek, S. Mukerjee, D. R. Dekel, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *33*, 293.
- [28] D. Liu, S. Q. Lu, Y. R. Xue, Z. Guan, J. J. Fang, W. Zhu, Z. B. Zhuang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *59*, 26.
- [29] J. Zheng, Z. B. Zhuang, B. J. Xu, Y. S. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 4449.
- [30] Y. Wang, G. W. Wang, G. W. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. J. Han, L. Xiao, J. T. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [31] L. Zhuang, J. Jin, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2007**, *129*, 11033.