---
source: He 等 - 2024 - Ammonia‐Induced FCC Ru Nanocrystals for Efficient Alkaline Hydrogen Electrocatalysis.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 74.870s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:56:59.931741Z
---

# **Ammonia-Induced FCC Ru Nanocrystals for Efficient Alkaline Hydrogen Electrocatalysis**

*Shunyi He, Yuanhua Tu, Jiaxi Zhang,\* Longhai Zhang, Jun Ke, Liming Wang, Li Du, Zhiming Cui,\* and Huiyu Song\**

**The urgent development of effective electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HER/HOR) is needed due to the sluggish alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis. Here, an unusual face-centered cubic (fcc) Ru nanocrystal with favorable HER/HOR performance is offered. Guided by the lower calculated surface energy of fcc Ru than that of hcp Ru in NH3, the carbon-supported fcc Ru electrocatalyst is facilely synthesized in the NH3 reducing atmosphere. The specific HOR kinetic current density of fcc Ru can reach 23.4 mA cmPGM<sup>−</sup>2, which is around 20 and 21 times greater than that of hexagonal close-packed (hcp) Ru and Pt/C, respectively. Additionally, the HER specific activity is enhanced more than six times in fcc Ru electrocatalyst when compared to Pt/C. Experimental and theoretical analysis indicate that the phase transition from hcp Ru to fcc Ru can negatively shift the** *d* **band center, weaken the interaction between catalysts and key intermediates and therefore enhances the HER/HOR kinetics.**

# **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen, an energy carrier, has been considered as the promising substitutes for fossil fuel due to its high energy density and zero emission.[\[1\]](#page-7-0) To date, the development of hydrogen economy has received an ever-increasing attention in energy field due to its important role in achieving carbon neutrality.[\[2\]](#page-7-0) Hydrogen electrode reactions including hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) have played a critical role on the performance and cost of water electrolyzers and fuel cells, especially in alkaline media.[\[3\]](#page-7-0) Previous studies show that the kinetics of hydrogen electrode reactions in alkaline media is at least two orders of magnitude slower than that in acidic media.[\[4\]](#page-7-0) In addition, the mechanism of hydrogen electrode reactions in alkaline media is not well understood.[\[4a\]](#page-7-0)

The most frequently researched electrocatalysts for HER and HOR in alkaline media are Pt-based materials, but their scarcity and expensive cost prevent their widespread use.[\[4a,5\]](#page-7-0) Among the

S. He, Y. Tu, J. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. Ke, L. Wang, L. Du, Z. Cui, H. Song Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Fuel Cell Technology School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering South China University of Technology Guangzhou 510641, China

E-mail: [cejxzh@scut.edu.cn;](mailto:cejxzh@scut.edu.cn) [zmcui@scut.edu.cn;](mailto:zmcui@scut.edu.cn) [hysong@scut.edu.cn](mailto:hysong@scut.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202308053>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202308053**

developed HER/HOR catalysts, Ru with relatively high abundance and low cost,[\[6\]](#page-7-0) has gained enormous research attentions and been considered as appealing alternative to Pt catalysts.[\[7\]](#page-7-0) Ru metal possesses significant oxophilicity and thus can promote a faster water dissociation step than Pt during alkaline HER and facilitate the conversion of the Had during HOR.[\[5b,8\]](#page-7-0) However, the strong oxophilicity of Ru has resulted in the poisoning of the active sites and the increased reaction energy barriers by the difficult desorption of the reaction intermediates.[\[7c,d\]](#page-7-0) Thus, it is highly desirable to explore the strategy to optimize the binding strength of the reaction intermediates to Ru catalysts for boosting the HER/HOR in alkaline electrolyte.

Phase engineering has been identified as an effective strategy to regulate

the catalysts' electronic structure that determines the binding strength of reaction intermediates to them.[\[9\]](#page-7-0) For instance, dramatical changes of the electronic configurations were found when transitioning from the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) Ru to the unconventional face-centered-cubic (fcc) Ru.[\[10\]](#page-7-0) By constructing a fcc Ru catalyst, Ye et al. remarkably enhanced the catalytic activity of the dehydrogenation of ammonia borane and the reduction of *p*-nitrophenol by NaBH4 when compared to the hcp Ru counterpart.[\[11\]](#page-7-0) Hara and his colleagues succeeded to attain a 6 times increase in the reaction rate toward a model reductive amination of furfural generated from biomass to furfurylamine by tuning the crystal phase of Ru from hcp to fcc.[\[12\]](#page-7-0) These enhancements in heterogeneous catalysis aroused by fcc Ru motivated us to explore its further application as an efficient electrocatalyst for HER/HOR. This may offer a feasible way to optimize the electronic structure, prevent the poisoning by the reaction intermediates, and improve the HER/HOR activities of Ru-based materials, which have not been widely documented yet. Besides, the currently reported fcc Ru catalysts were generally synthesized by the complex and unscalable routes that required multiple treatment steps.[\[10a,13\]](#page-7-0) A simple and scalable approach is urgently needed for the synthesis of fcc Ru nanocrystals for hydrogen electrocatalysis.

Herein, we present a highly active catalyst of fcc Ru/C-NH3 synthesized by a facile ammonia-induced route for hydrogen electrocatalysis. The obtained unconventional fcc Ru/C-NH3 shows significant enhancement in HER/HOR activity compared to the common hcp Ru (hcp Ru/C-H2) and the

SMQ

16136829, 2024, 15, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/sml1.20208063 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2020 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 10

benchmarking Pt/C. Specifically, its HOR kinetic activity can reach 23.4 mA cm $_{\rm PGM}^{-2}$  at the overpotential of 50 mV, indicating more than 20 times that of hcp Ru/C-H $_2$  and Pt/C. Besides, the fcc Ru/C-NH $_3$  also achieves more than six-fold enhancement in mass and ECSA-normalized HER activity compared to Pt/C. Moreover, the operando EIS analysis and DFT calculation were employed to perform a comprehensive mechanism study on the enhanced kinetics of the hydrogen electrocatalysis. It is found that the transition from hcp Ru to fcc Ru can negatively shift the d band center and weaken the adsorption strength of the reaction intermediates (e.g., H\* and H $_2$ O\*) to catalysts, which lowers the reaction barriers and improves the reaction kinetics.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

NH<sub>3</sub> and H<sub>2</sub> that are commonly used as the reductant during catalyst synthesis. Density functional theory (DFT) was performed firstly to evaluate the structural stability of the fcc Ru and hcp Ru under two gases. It was found that the adsorbed H<sub>2</sub> molecule tended to cleave as two adsorbed H\* at some Ru facets (see Figures S1 and S2 and Note S1, Supporting Information), which was considered as the final state of the H<sub>2</sub>-adsorbed Ru surface. The possible facets and sites at fcc Ru and hcp Ru for NH<sub>3</sub> and H<sub>2</sub> adsorption were constructed to calculate the corresponding surface energy (Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information). As can be seen in Figure 1a, the surface energy of the NH<sub>3</sub>-adsorbed fcc Ru is lower than the NH<sub>3</sub>-adsorbed hcp Ru, indicating the higher stability of fcc Ru than hcp Ru under NH<sub>3</sub>. [10b] Differently, the hcp Ru is more stable than fcc Ru in H<sub>2</sub>. Based on the analysis above, it is possible to achieve controllable synthesis of Ru with various crystal phases (e.g., fcc or hcp) by adjusting the reducing gases, such as  $NH_3$  and  $H_2$ .

A freezing-dry and annealing method, [2b,14] which was developed by our group for preparing the carbon supported catalysts with ultrasmall particle sizes, was employed to synthesize the Ru nanoparticles (NPs) annealed under H<sub>2</sub> and NH<sub>3</sub>, respectively. In brief, the well-dispersed RuCl<sub>3</sub>/C precursors could be obtained by the freezing-dry method (see the details in the experimental section of the SI). After that, the precursors were annealed under NH<sub>3</sub> or H<sub>2</sub> flow at 400 °C for 2 h to reduce the precursors and obtain the Ru crystal with different phases (Figure 1b). The obtained Ru were denoted as fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub>, respectively. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis indicates that both fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H2 exhibit uniform dispersion of the Ru NPs on the support and present a narrowed distribution of particle size (≈3 nm) (Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information). The lattice fringes and FFT diffraction from the high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) images indicate a fcc Ru was formed under the NH3 annealing atmosphere (Figure 1c-e);<sup>[10a]</sup> while a hcp Ru could be produced under H<sub>2</sub> flow (Figure 1f-h). [7c] This change in crystal phase was further confirmed by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis (Figure 1i). The diffraction peaks of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> around 41°, 47.5°, and 69° can be indexed to (111), (200), and (220) facets of the fcc Ru with a space group of Fm-3m, respectively.[10a] Differently, the XRD peaks of hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> match well with the hcp Ru with a space group of P63/mmc.[7c] These findings support the earlier DFT estimates and provide an experimental confirmation of the controlled synthesis of Ru NPs with different crystal phases by varying the annealing atmospheres.X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed to analyze the changes in electronic states of Ru by the phase transition from hcp to fcc. As can be seen in Figure 1j, the valence band (VB) energy of fcc Ru/C-NH $_3$  shifts away from Fermi level compared to that of the hcp Ru/C-H $_2$ . [2a] This variation of VB implies the shift of the d-band center ( $\epsilon_d$ ) as the valence electrons closed to the Fermi level are generally ascribed to the d states. [15] To be specific, the VB spectra within -2 to 6 eV was used to calculate the tested  $\epsilon_d$ , which is obtained by the following equation: [2a]

$$\varepsilon_d = -\frac{\int_{-2}^6 I_d(\varepsilon) \, \varepsilon d\varepsilon}{\int_{-2}^6 I_d(\varepsilon) \, d\varepsilon} \tag{1}$$

where  $I_d(\epsilon)$  and  $\epsilon$  are the intensity and binding energy of the VB spectra, respectively. The obtained  $\epsilon_d$  of fcc Ru/C-NH $_3$  is -3.21 eV, which exhibits a negative shift of 0.32 eV away from the Fermi level compared to that of the hcp Ru/C-H $_2$  ( $\epsilon_d=-2.89$  eV) (bar graph of Figure 1j). This result implies that altering the Ru nanocrystal from hcp to fcc structure can move the d-band center away from the Fermi level, which will weaken the binding strength to the reaction intermediates according to the d-band theory. [2b,16] In the Ru 3p XPS spectra of fcc Ru/C-NH $_3$  (Figure 1k), the peak position of Ru  $3p_{3/2}$  presents a positive shift of 0.8 eV compared to that of the hcp Ru/C-H $_2$ , indicating the lower electronic density dominating at fcc Ru/C-NH $_3$ . [7c]

The HER performance of fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H2 were evaluated in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 1 M KOH solution. The solution was bubbled with H<sub>2</sub> for 30 min before the test to ensure the saturation of H<sub>2</sub> and to avoid shifting the equilibrium potential.<sup>[2b]</sup> The HER LSV curves collected from N<sub>2</sub>- and H<sub>2</sub>- saturated solution were compared in Figure S5 (Supporting Information), which shows their distinction in overpotential at the same current density. As shown in **Figure 2a**, fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> only requires an overpotential of 18 and 53 mV to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which are superior to the commercial Pt/C (44 and 207 mV), while hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> shows the similar overpotential to that of the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>. The ECSA (determined by CO-stripping curves) of the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C were 71, 146, and 59 m<sup>2</sup> g<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The ECSA-normalized activities (SA) and mass-normalized activities (MA) of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> are 4.78 and 3.42 A mg<sub>PGM</sub><sup>-1</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV, respectively, which are 6.3 and 7.6 folds of those for Pt/C (0.76 mA  $cm_{PGM}^{-2}$  and 0.45 A mg <sub>PGM</sub><sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 2c). Furthermore, the Tafel slopes of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> (31 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> (35 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) are much lower than that of Pt/C (85 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting the fastest HER kinetics of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> (Figure 2b). The TOF (at  $\eta = 50$  mV) of the three catalysts was further calculated and compared to reveal the difference in intrinsic activity. As shown in Figure S7 (Supporting Information), the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> shows the highest TOF of 1.78  $H_2$  site<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, surpassing the hcp Ru/C- $H_2$  and Pt/C with 0.23 and 1.33 H<sub>2</sub> site<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Moreover, Figure 2d and Table S1 (Supporting Information) summarize the overpotential, Tafel slope and TOF of HER with various catalysts in literature, [17] indicating that fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> exhibits standout performance and ranks among the top catalysts for the HER. The HER stability test was performed by ADT between -0.05 and

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) The lowest surface energy of the fcc Ru and hcp Ru adsorbed with NH3 and H2, respectively. b) Schematic diagram of synthesizing the fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H2 by controlling the reduction atmosphere. TEM images of c,e) fcc Ru/C-NH3 and f,h) hcp Ru/C-H2. FFT patterns of d) fcc Ru/C-NH3 and g) hcp Ru/C-H2. i) XRD patterns. j) The normalized XPS VB spectra. k) Ru 3*p* XPS spectra of fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H2.

0.05 V (vs RHE) in N2-saturated 1 m KOH. After 10000 cycles, the decay of fcc Ru/C-NH3 is only 3 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is much lower than Pt/C (26 mV) (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0). Moreover, the SA and MA of Pt/C are 45.6% and 46.3% decreases after 10 000 cycles; while those of fcc Ru/C-NH3 merely decrease 14.3% and 13.9% of the initial (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0), further demonstrating its excellent HER stability. The TEM images showed that the fcc Ru/C-NH3 nanoparticles could retain their small size and uniform distribution after the stability test (Figure S8a, Supporting Information), indicating no significant loss of active sites on fcc Ru/C-NH3. Besides, the fcc Ru maintained its crystal after the test as revealed by the HR-TEM image in Figure S8b (Supporting Information). In contrast, Pt/C experienced severe agglomeration (Figure S9, Supporting Information).

We further evaluated the HOR performance in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution (25 °C, ambient pressure). The line sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were recorded on a rotating disk electrode (RDE) with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm at a scanning rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. As shown in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-3-0) both fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H2 outperform the Pt/C toward HOR. It is worth noting that the transition of hcp Ru (hcp Ru/C-H2) to fcc Ru (fcc Ru/C-NH3) leads to a significant increase in HOR current density.

16136289, 2024, 15, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20208083 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for lucies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for lucies of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons License (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Creative Commons (Author) of the applicable Crea

www.small-journal.com

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** HER performance. a) HER polarization curves of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub>, and Pt/C in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 1  $\,$ m KOH. b) Tafel plots. c) Comparison of specific activity and mass activity at  $\eta=50$  mV. d) TOF at  $\eta=50$  mV and  $\eta_{10}$  comparisons of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> with the reported HER catalysts. [17] e) HER polarization curves of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> and Pt/C before and after 10 000 cycles in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 1  $\,$ m KOH. f) Comparison of specific activity and mass activity before and after 10 000 cycles at 50 mV.

Figure 3. HOR performance. a) HOR polarization curves of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub>, and Pt/C in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. b) Tafel plots of kinetic current density ( $j_k$ ) versus E via the Butler-Volmer fittings. c) Comparison of kinetic current density normalized by ECSA and exchange current density ( $j_0$ ) normalized by the mass of Ru or Pt at 50 mV. d) HOR exchange current density ( $j_0$ ) and  $j_0$ , comparison of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> with the reported catalysts.<sup>[3,21]</sup> e) HOR polarization curves in (H<sub>2</sub>:CO = 10:1 vol/vol) 0.1 M KOH with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. f) HOR polarization curves of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> and Pt/C before and after 1000 cycles in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH.

16136829, 2024, 15, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20208063 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are govern

Particularly, the current density of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> (2.70 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) is much higher than hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> (2.34 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (1.90 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) at 50 mV (Figure 3a), indicating the highest apparent HOR activity for fcc Ru/C-NH3. The current failure occurred at ≈0.2 V versus RHE for both fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> and hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> catalysts (Figure S10, Supporting Information), aligning with the prevailing trend observed in most reported Ru-based catalysts.[7d,18] LSV curves at different rotating speeds were obtained from 800 rpm to 2400 rpm (Figure S11a-c, Supporting Information). With the increasing of the rotating speed, the current density increases owing to the improved mass transfer of H<sub>2</sub>.<sup>[19]</sup> The Koutecky–Levich plots of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, hcp Ru/C- $H_2$  and Pt/C calculated to be 11.17, 11.37 and 13.50 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup>  $\omega^{1/2}$  at 100 mV are close to the theoretical value, [20] respectively, demonstrating the two-electron transfer of HOR process (Figure **S11d**, Supporting Information).

Figure 3b shows the kinetic current density  $(j_{\nu})$  obtained from the Koutecky-Levich equation, suggesting the best HOR kinetics of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>. The exchange current density  $(j_0)$  was calculated by the Butler-Volmer equation.<sup>[22]</sup> The specific activities of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, in terms of  $j_{k,s}$  (ECSA-normalized  $j_k$ ) and  $j_{0,m}$ (mass-normalized  $j_0$ ), at an overpotential of 50 mV, exhibit a remarkable improvement compared to the benchmark Pt/C catalyst. Specifically, the  $j_{k,s}$  (23.4 mA cm<sub>PGM</sub><sup>-2</sup>) and  $j_{0,m}$  (0.60 A mg<sub>PGM</sub><sup>-1</sup>) of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> reach 21 and 3.5 times the values observed for Pt/C, respectively (Figure 3c). Furthermore, the transition of hcp Ru to fcc Ru results in a significant enhancement in both  $j_{k,s}$  and  $j_{0,m}$ . The  $j_{k,s}$  is enhanced by a factor of 19.8, while the  $j_{0m}$  experiences a 1.6-fold improvement. Additionally, the fcc Ru shows the distinguished performance in specific and mass activity including that of  $j_{k}$  and  $j_{0}$  (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The TOF was further calculated to reveal the difference in intrinsic activity. As shown in Figure S13 (Supporting Information), the fcc Ru/C-NH3 shows the superior TOF than the hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C. Moreover, a comprehensive comparison of the HOR specific exchange current densities and other typical descriptors of HOR with various catalysts in literature indicates that fcc Ru/C-NH3 exhibits exceptional performance and ranks among the top catalysts for the HOR (Figure 3d; Table S2, Supporting Information).<sup>[21]</sup> It is of great importance to ensure the CO tolerance for HOR electrocatalysts in practical AEMFCs. With the high amount of CO (≈9% vol), the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> still retains a favorable HOR activity; while Pt/C almost completely deactivated, suggesting the superior anti-CO poisoning ability of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> (Figure 3e). The accelerated degradation test (ADT) shows an ignorable decrease in HOR activity for fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, while a significant deterioration is observed in that of Pt/C (Figure 3f; Figure S14, Supporting Information). TEM was conducted to further evaluate the morphology and crystal stability of the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> during HOR test. Different from the Pt/C with heavy agglomeration after ADT, the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles still retain their small size and uniform distribution (Figures \$15 and S16, Supporting Information). Moreover, the fcc Ru crystal structure remains unaltered following the HOR ADT test. The above findings solidify the position of fcc Ru/C-NH3 as one of the most promising catalysts for efficient and effective hydrogen oxidation reaction.

To explore the possible effect of N-doped carbon on the HER/HOR activity, we re-annealed the fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> under H<sub>2</sub> flow to convert the fcc Ru to hcp Ru and the sample was denoted as hcp Ru/C-NH3-H2 (Figure S17a, Supporting Information). The hcp Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>-H<sub>2</sub> showed a similar HER/HOR activity with that of the hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> (Figure S17b,c, Supporting Information), indicating that the enhanced activity of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> is dominated by the fcc Ru rather than the N-doped support. CVs were collected from 0.05 to 1.0 V (vs RHE) in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 м KOH to appraise the desorption behavior of H<sub>ad</sub> (Figure S18a, Supporting Information). Compared to hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub>, fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> exhibits 16 mV negative shifts for H<sub>ad</sub> desorption peak potential, indicating the weakening of H adsorption strength after the transition from hcp Ru to fcc Ru. It is well accepted that CO electrooxidation is triggered by the reactive OH species.<sup>[23]</sup> The onset potential of the CO oxidization is thus generally used for evaluating the adsorption strength to OH. [2b,23] The more negative onset potential of CO oxidation peak, the easier it is to absorb OH<sub>ad</sub> on the catalyst surface. As shown in Figure S18b (Supporting Information), the CO oxidation peak of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> (0.44 V vs RHE) is more positive than that of hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> (0.40 V vs RHE), indicating the weakened OH adsorption ability of the fcc Ru. These results prove that the strong adsorption of reaction intermediates was weakened when altering the Ru nanocrystal from hcp to the unconventional fcc structure, which is consistent with the XPS results (Figure 1j,k).

Intrinsic Tafel slope, operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and DFT calculations were conducted to reveal in depth the effect of phase transition on the HER kinetics. For Tafel approximation, we calculate the intrinsic Tafel plots with the current density normalized by ECSA in the region of the overpotential greater than 50 mV to neglect the impact of the backward reaction. [24] As can be seen in Figure S19 (Supporting Information), the Tafel slopes of fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub>, hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C are calculated to be 74, 75, and 105 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, indicating the Volmer-Heyrovsky mechanism of the HER.[1a] Operando EIS for HER was conducted between 0.15 V and -0.1 V (vs RHE) in 1 M KOH according to the previous work, [25] corresponding Bode plots and Nyquist plots were obtained (Figure 4a,b; Figure S20, Supporting Information). It should be noted that electron transfer only occurs in Volmer step and Heyrovsky step, while Tafel step cannot be identified by EIS since it does not involve electron transfer.<sup>[26]</sup> The equivalent circuit can be consist of three parts: 1) reaction intermediate accumulation, corresponding R<sub>2</sub> and constant phase element (CPE<sub>2</sub>) represent Volmer step related to low frequency; 2) interface reaction charge transfer, corresponding R<sub>3</sub> and CPE<sub>3</sub> represent Heyrovsky step related to middle frequency; 3) electrolyte resistance R<sub>c</sub> (Figure S21, Supporting Information; Figure 4a,b).<sup>[25]</sup> For fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> and hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> in 1 M KOH HER, as potential decreases, the phase angle related to Volmer step declines rapidly at low frequency, while the phase angle reduces tardily at the middle frequency demonstrating the sluggish Heyrovsky step (Figure 4a,b).<sup>[25]</sup> Moreover, the resistances during the HER process indicates that fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> and hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> follow the Volmer–Heyrovsky mechanism with Heyrovsky step as ratedetermining step (RDS) in 1 M KOH HER (Figure 4c,d). Furthermore, a comparison of the equivalent resistances with fcc Ru/C-NH<sub>3</sub> and hcp Ru/C-H<sub>2</sub> suggests that transition of hcp Ru to fcc Ru results in a faster HER reaction kinetics (Figure S22, Supporting Information).

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Operando EIS of HER. a,b) Bode plots. c,d) Correlation of the equivalent resistances (R2: Volmer step, R3: Heyrovsky step). e) Gibbs free energy diagram for HER reaction based on Volmer–Heyrovsky process. f) The correlation of *d* band center with the HER intrinsic activity and hydrogen adsorption energy.

According to the Tafel approximation and operando EIS analysis, the DFT analysis on the HER mechanism of fcc Ru and hcp Ru was based on the Volmer–Heyrovsky pathway. The water dissociation step is a key process of the alkaline HER for most of the catalysts.[\[1a\]](#page-7-0) The energy barriers of transition states during water dissociation (Volmer step) for fcc and hcp Ru were thus first calculated (Figures S23 and S24, Supporting Information). As can be seen in Figure 4e, the fcc Ru (0.46 eV) and hcp Ru (0.48 eV) present the small and closed energy barriers toward water dissociation. The energy barrier of Heyrovsky step involved the release of H2 molecules for fcc Ru and hcp Ru are 0.58 and 0.66 eV, respectively. This indicates the Heyrovsky step is the RDS step for these two models. Besides, the transition from hcp Ru to fcc Ru can reduce the energy barrier of the HER RDS step. These results consist with the results of the HER activities, Tafel approximation and operando EIS analysis. To unveil the intrinsic nature of the enhancement, the *d*-projected density of state (*d*-PDOS) was calculated and demonstrated in Figure S25 (Supporting Information). It has been found that the <sup>d</sup> of fcc Ru (−1.59 eV) is more negative than that of the hcp Ru (−1.57 eV), which is consistent with the tendency from the VB analysis. This could weaken the interaction between the reaction intermediates and catalyst.[\[16\]](#page-7-0) For instance, the H\* adsorption energy of fcc Ru is reduced compared to that of the hcp Ru, which facilitates the release of the H2 product, decreases the reaction barriers and increases the HER activity (Figure 4f). These results match well with the *d*-band theory and Sabatier principle.[\[16,27\]](#page-7-0)

As the reverse reaction of HER, HOR can also be identified by EIS. Herein, we attempt to assess the HOR kinetics with operando EIS. Similarly, the effect of phase transition on the HOR kinetics was explored through Tafel slope, operando EIS and DFT calculations. The Tafel slopes of fcc Ru/C-NH3, hcp Ru/C-H2 and Pt/C are 33, 58, and 95 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, indicating fcc Ru shows better HOR kinetics than hcp Ru (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Operando EIS was conducted between 0.08 V and −0.06 V (vs RHE) in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH, corresponding Bode plots and Nyquist plots were obtained (**Figure 5**[a,b;](#page-6-0) Figure S27, Supporting Information). It is well-accepted that HOR of Pt/C in 0.1 m HClO4 follows Tafel– Volmer mechanism.[\[28\]](#page-7-0) In this pathway, only the Volmer step with electron transfer can be identified, indicating that the phase angle at the low frequency region in the Bode plot can be indexed to the Volmer step of HOR (Figure S28, Supporting Information). Differently, the Pt/C follows a Heyrovsky–Volmer HOR pathway in 0.1 m KOH.[\[29\]](#page-7-0) In alkaline HOR of Pt/C (Figure S28, Supporting Information), the phase angle in middle frequency region is thus assigned to the Heyrovsky step. These results are consistent with the mechanism studies of Pt/C in the literature.[\[28,29\]](#page-7-0) The phase angle distributes both at the middle and low frequency region at HER potential (E *<* 0 V) in the Bode plots of fcc Ru/C-NH3, confirming the Volmer–Heyrovsky pathway of the HER for fcc Ru/C-NH3 (Figure [5a\)](#page-6-0). When the applied potential is swift to HOR potential (E *>* 0 V), the majority of phase angle signals are distributing in the low frequency region, with a much lower proportion in the middle frequency region than in the HER potential range. This implies that less signals of the Heyrovsky step can be probed by HOR Bode plots of fcc Ru/C-NH3. Similar results can be observed in the Bode plots of hcp Ru/C-H2 (Figure [5b\)](#page-6-0). For an intuitive comparison, the Bode plots of these catalysts at 0.04 V are extracted and illustrated in Figure S29 (Supporting

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Operando EIS of HOR. a,b) Bode plots in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. c) Gibbs free energy diagram for HOR reaction based on Volmer–Heyrovsky process. d) The correlation of *d* band center with the HOR intrinsic activity and H2O adsorption energy.

Information). These results suggest the possibility of a mixed HOR mechanism of Heyrovsky–Volmer and Tafel–Volmer pathway of fcc Ru/C-NH3 and hcp Ru/C-H2, suggesting the improved reaction mechanism compared to the benchmarking Pt/C.

We further calculated the difference in free energy of the HOR reaction coordinate. Figures S30 and S31 (Supporting Information) shows the adsorption arrangement of the reaction intermediates at the hcp Ru and fcc Ru models. The initial process (the adsorption of H or OH) and the water formation step both happen spontaneously on the surfaces of the two models, whereas the H\* + OH\* and the water desorption step take place in an endothermic manner at both the hcp Ru and fcc Ru (Figure 5c). It is found that the water desorption stage is the RDS in each of these models. Additionally, the energy barrier of the endothermic processes, including the RDS, can be lowered by the phase change from hcp Ru to fcc Ru. The negative of the *d* band center would weaken the interaction between water and the catalysts. The weakened water adsorption strength at fcc Ru thus reduces its RDS energy barrier and improves the HOR activity (Figure 5d).

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we provide a fcc Ru/C electrocatalyst by facilely reducing the carbon-supported RuCl3 in NH3 for highly efficient hydrogen electrocatalysis. It was found that fcc Ru/C-NH3 showed superior catalytic HER/HOR performance to the hcp Ru/C-H2 and Pt/C. Specially, the fcc Ru/C-NH3 exhibits the high SA and MA of 4.78 mA cmPGM<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 3.42 A mgPGM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV toward HER, achieving more than 6 times of those for Pt/C. Besides, the normalized HOR kinetic current density of fcc Ru/C-NH3 can reach 23.4 mA cmPGM<sup>−</sup>2, which is around 20 and 21 folds of that for hcp Ru/C-H2 and Pt/C, respectively. Moreover, the ADT analysis of fcc Ru/C-NH3 toward both HER and HOR indicates its superior durability to the benchmarking Pt/C. Experimental and DFT analysis results imply that the negatively-shift *d* band center of fcc Ru compared to hcp Ru can weaken the adsorption strength to the reaction intermediates of HER/HOR, which lowers the reaction energy barriers and improves the kinetics. In addition to offering an advanced HER/HOR electrocatalyst, this work provides a comprehensive understanding on designing highly active electrocatalysts toward hydrogen electrocatalysis.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

S.H., Y.T., and J.Z. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22072048), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2022M711195), the Guangdong Provincial Department of Science and Technology (2021A1515010128), the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2022A1515111097).

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

ammonia-induced, electrocatalyst, fcc Ru, hydrogen evolution reaction, hydrogen oxidation reaction

> Received: September 14, 2023 Revised: October 19, 2023 Published online: November 27, 2023

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>[1] a) J. Zhu, L. Hu, P. Zhao, L. Y. S. Lee, K.-Y. Wong, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 851; b) B. Pang, C. Jia, S. Wang, T. Liu, T. Ding, X. Liu, D. Liu, L. Cao, M. Zhu, C. Liang, Y. Wu, Z. Liao, J. Jiang, T. Yao, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 3826; c) X. Xu, G. Fu, Y. Wang, Q. Cao, Y. Xun, C. Li, C. Guan, W. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 629.
- [2] a) J. Zhang, L. Zhang, L. Du, H. L. Xin, J. B. Goodenough, Z. Cui, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *132*, 17641; b) J. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. Liu, C. Zhong, Y. Tu, P. Li, L. Du, S. Chen, Z. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5497.
- [3] Y. Zhao, X. Wang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11751.
- [4] a) P. Li, Y. Jiang, Y. Hu, Y. Men, Y. Liu, W. Cai, S. Chen, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 900; b) J. Zheng, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501602.
- [5] a) R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K.-C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 550; b) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. Van Der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300; c) G. H. Gu, J. Lim, C. Wan, T. Cheng, H. Pu, S. Kim, J. Noh, C. Choi, J. Kim, W. A. Goddard, X. Duan, Y. Jung, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 5355.
- [6] C. Lin, J.-L. Li, X. Li, S. Yang, W. Luo, Y. Zhang, S.-H. Kim, D.-H. Kim, S. S. Shinde, Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, Z. Jiang, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 1012.
- [7] a) Y. Zhao, X. Wang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11751; b) Y. Dang, T. Wu, H. Tan, J. Wang, C. Cui, P. Kerns, W. Zhao, L. Posada, L. Wen, S. L. Suib, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 5433; c) Q. Hu, K. Gao, X. Wang, H. Zheng, J. Cao, L. Mi, Q. Huo, H. Yang, J. Liu, C. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3958; d) Y. Xue, L. Shi, X. Liu, J. Fang, X. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651.
- [8] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z.-F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.
- [9] a) J. Liu, J. Huang, W. Niu, C. Tan, H. Zhang, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 5830; b) Y. Chen, Z. Lai, X. Zhang, Z. Fan, Q. He, C. Tan, H. Zhang, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2020**, *4*, 243.
- [10] a) M. Zhao, Z. D. Hood, M. Vara, K. D. Gilroy, M. Chi, Y. Xia, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 7241; b) P. Zhao, Z. Cao, X. Liu, P. Ren, D.-B. Cao, H. Xiang, H. Jiao, Y. Yang, Y.-W. Li, X.-D. Wen, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 2768.
- [11] H. Ye, Q. Wang, M. Catalano, N. Lu, J. Vermeylen, M. J. Kim, Y. Liu, Y. Sun, X. Xia, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 2812.
- [12] D. Chandra, Y. Inoue, M. Sasase, M. Kitano, A. Bhaumik, K. Kamata, H. Hosono, M. Hara, *Chem. Sci.* **2018**, *9*, 5949.
- [13] Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, Y. Zhu, L. H. Li, Y. Han, Y. Chen, M. Jaroniec, S.-Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 16174.
- [14] a) B. Zhang, G. Fu, Y. Li, L. Liang, N. S. Grundish, Y. Tang, J. B. Goodenough, Z. Cui, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 7857; b) W. Zhao, Y. Ye, W. Jiang, J. Li, H. Tang, J. Hu, L. Du, Z. Cui, S. Liao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 15822.
- [15] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 5076.
- [16] E. Christoffersen, P. Liu, A. Ruban, H. L. Skriver, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Catal.* **2001**, *199*, 123.

- [17] a) L. Fu, F. Yang, Y. Hu, Y. Li, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Sci. Bull.* **2020**, *65*, 1735; b) J. Fan, J. Wu, X. Cui, L. Gu, Q. Zhang, F. Meng, B.-H. Lei, D. J. Singh, W. Zheng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 3645; c) C. Wu, M. Zhang, F. Chen, H. Kang, S. Xu, S. Xu, *Dalton Trans.* **2020**, *49*, 13339; d) F. Yang, L. Fu, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 22959; e) Z. Jiang, S. Song, X. Zheng, X. Liang, Z. Li, H. Gu, Z. Li, Y. Wang, S. Liu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 19619; f) C. Zhang, P. Wang, W. Li, Z. Zhang, J. Zhu, Z. Pu, Y. Zhao, S. Mu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 19348; g) H. Li, K. Liu, J. Fu, K. Chen, K. Yang, Y. Lin, B. Yang, Q. Wang, H. Pan, Z. Cai, H. Li, M. Cao, J. Hu, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, E. Cortés, A. Fratalocchi, M. Liu, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *82*, 105767; h) T. Zhang, J. Jin, J. Chen, Y. Fang, X. Han, J. Chen, Y. Li, Y. Wang, J. Liu, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6875; i) P. Wang, Q. Shao, J. Guo, L. Bu, X. Huang, *Chem. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 3144; j) X. Qin, L. Zhang, G.-L. Xu, S. Zhu, Q. Wang, M. Gu, X. Zhang, C. Sun, P. B. Balbuena, K. Amine, M. Shao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 9614; k) J. Zhang, X. Mao, S. Wang, L. Liang, M. Cao, L. Wang, G. Li, Y. Xu, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116867.
- [18] X. B. Zhang, X. Xiao, J. Chen, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, M. Gao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4511.
- [19] J. Zhang, G. Ren, D. Li, Q. Kong, Z. Hu, Y. Xu, S. Wang, L.u Wang, M. Cao, X. Huang, *Sci. Bull.* **2022**, *67*, 2103.
- [20] J. Zheng, Y. Yan, B. Xu, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F1470.
- [21] a) Y. Li, C. Yang, C. Ge, N. Yao, J. Yin, W. Jiang, H. Cong, G. Cheng, W. Luo, L. Zhuang, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2202404; b) Y. Liu, L. Cheng, Y. Huang, Y. Yang, X. Rao, S. Zhou, T. Taylor Isimjan, X. Yang, *Chem-SusChem* **2023**, *16*, 202202113; c) S.-Y. Ma, T. Ma, Q. Hu, H.-P. Yang, C.-X. He, *Sci. China Mater.* **2022**, *65*, 3462; d) L. Su, X. Fan, Y. Jin, H. Cong, W. Luo, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207603; e) L. Wu, L. Su, Q. Liang, W. Zhang, Y. Men, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4127; f) C. Yang, Y. Li, C. Ge, W. Jiang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, W. Luo, *Chin. J. Chem.* **2022**, *40*, 2495; g) B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, L. Xia, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400; h) Y. Zhang, G. Li, Z. Zhao, L. Han, Y. Feng, S. Liu, B. Xu, H. Liao, G. Lu, H. L. Xin, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105049; i) Y. Zhao, D. Wu, W. Luo, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 1616.
- [22] J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255.
- [23] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [24] a) J. C. Fornaciari, L.-C. Weng, S. M. Alia, C. Zhan, T. A. Pham, A. T. Bell, T. Ogitsu, N. Danilovic, A. Z. Weber, *Electrochim. Acta* **2022**, *405*, 139810; b) K. S. Exner, *Electrochem. Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *2*, 2100037.
- [25] W. Chen, B. Wu, Y. Wang, W. Zhou, Y. Li, T. Liu, C. Xie, L. Xu, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Li, J. Liu, Y. Zou, R. Chen, C. Chen, J. Zheng, Y. Li, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6428.
- [26] P. Yan, T. Yang, M. Lin, Y. Guo, Z. Qi, Q. Luo, X.-Y. Yu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301343.
- [27] J. K. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, J. R. Kitchin, J. G. Chen, S. Pandelov, U. Stimming, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2005**, *152*, 23.
- [28] X. Tian, P. Zhao, W. Sheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808066.
- [29] Z.-C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 5153.