---
source: Huang 等 - 2023 - In Situ Construction of NiNi0.2 Mo0.8 N Heterostructure to Enhance the Alkali.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 82.454s
generated: 2026-01-10T05:59:02.703698Z
---

**[www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

# **In Situ Construction of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N Heterostructure to Enhance the Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction by Balancing the Binding of Intermediates**

*Churong Huang, Min Feng, Yang Peng, Bin Zhang, Jingle Huang, Xin Yue,\* and Shaoming Huang\**

**The inferior activity of hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkali severely hampers the deployment of Ni catalysts in the promising anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs), due to the unbalanced binding energies of hydrogen (HBE) and hydroxyl (OHBE) species. Ni-Mo alloy and nickel nitride have been proven to improve the Ni-based activities of HOR but they still can be further enhanced. Because it sacrifices the HBE for enlarging OHBE. Herein, it is reported that the activity can be further improved by constructing heterostructure between Ni nanoparticles (NPs) and nitride of Ni-Mo alloy (Ni0.2Mo0.8N) by an in situ synthetic strategy. The in situ prepared reduced graphene oxide (rGO) supported heterostructure (Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO) possesses the state-of-the-art activity (overpotential of 100 mV to achieve 2.9 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), faster kinetics (kinetics current density of 11.20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and exchange current density of 2.74 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), and ultrahigh durability (maintaining the current densities for over 40 h or 10000 cycles). Detailed characterizations together with density functional theory simulations reveal that the tuned d-band electronic structures optimize and balance the HBE and OHBE, facilitating the HOR process on the as-fabricated heterostructured catalyst.**

## **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen fuel cells are recognized as the crucial technology to realize the hydrogen economy, especially proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs).[1] However, PEMFCs require the heavy usage of platinum group metal (PGM)-catalysts to catalyze the sluggish cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[2] Currently, the emerging anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) are advocated to substitute the PEMFCs owing to the

C. Huang, M. Feng, Y. Peng, B. Zhang, J. Huang, X. Yue, S. Huang Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Low-Dimensional Materials and Energy Storage Devices Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Energy Materials School of Materials and Energy

Guangdong University of Technology Guangzhou 510006, P. R. China E-mail: [xinyue@gdut.edu.cn;](mailto:xinyue@gdut.edu.cn) [smhuang@gdut.edu.cn](mailto:smhuang@gdut.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under<https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202300593>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202300593**

developments of abundant PGM-free catalysts for ORR with Pt-like activity and higher stability in alkaline medium.[3] Meanwhile, the cheap air loops, membrane, and bipolar plates can be applied in AEMFCs as well.[4] Unfortunately, the kinetics of anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in an alkaline media is two to three orders of magnitude slower than that in acidic solution.[5] Therefore, the design and developments of low-cost and Earth-abundant PGM-free catalysts for alkaline HOR are the key issues to realize the large-scale applications of AEMFCs.[6]

To our best knowledge, metallic nickel (Ni) is regarded as the most promising candidate to replace PGM for HOR in an alkaline medium.[4a,6c,7] Nevertheless, its performance still lags far behind those of PGM catalysts at present.[8] According to the bifunctional theory developed by Markovic et al.,[9] on one hand, the binding strength between Ni and adsorbed hydrogen (\*H) specie, the key intermediate during HOR,

is too strong to yield appropriate HOR activity.[10] On the other hand, the adsorption of hydroxyl (\*OH) is a more severe issue, because it is difficult to approach the surfaces of the catalyst under the positive potential window far from free charge.[11] Given this, the process of interfacial water formation is widely believed to be the rate-determining step (RDS), i.e., the Volmer step.[12] Consequently, a rational strategy to design highly efficient Ni-based HOR catalysts is suggested to optimize and balance the hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and hydroxyl binding energy (OHBE), namely, weakened binding strength of Ni-Had and strengthened that of Ni-OHad. [10,13]

Recent research efforts have demonstrated that construction of Ni nitride (Ni3N) can enhance the HOR activity by tuning the d-band structures through strong electronic coupling between Ni and N.[10,14] On the other hand, alloying Ni with oxyphilic element, such as Mo, W, and so on, is also an effective strategy to boost the HOR based on the regulation the OHBE.[15] Despite great progress, they still face challenges, because these strategies always sacrifice the regulation of the HBE for boosting the OHBE.[12,16] Thus, balanced strategies are urgently required. Fortunately, fabrications of heterostructures between nitrides and Ni are well confirmed to be feasible, e.g., Ni/Ni3N.[12] It

16163028, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202300593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1.** a) The scheme of synthetic route for the Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO. b) The XRD patterns of the intermediates for fabrication of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO. c) The XRD patterns of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO and Ni/rGO.

has been extensively deemed that the electrons transfer from the metallic Ni to Ni3N across the heterointerfaces to tune the d-band structures of Ni (downshift) and Ni3N (upshift), resulting in the weakened HBE and strengthened OHBE at the boundary of heterophase.[17] Nevertheless, the heterostructures are commonly prepared by the ex situ methods, i.e., synthesizing each component or precursor separately and followed by the combination together.[18] It will lead to uneven distributions, lessened heterointerfaces, and resulting weakened interactions.[19] Hence, in this report, we design and successfully in situ fabricate the reduced graphene oxides (rGO) supported heterostructure between Ni nanoparticles (NPs) and nitride of Ni-Mo alloy (Ni0.2Mo0.8N) (Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO) through a hydrothermal treatment followed by an annealing process under ammonia (NH3) atmosphere. The growth mechanism was studied and proposed, including the nitridation of NiMoO4 intermediate, the separation of hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) Ni NPs together with the transformation into face-centered-cubic (fcc) Ni NPs. As a result, rGO supported Ni NPs (Ni/rGO) and Ni0.2Mo0.8N (Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO) only possess negligible activities toward alkaline HOR. Owing to the occurred interactions, rGO loaded heterostructure between Ni NPs and Ni0.2Mo0.8N (Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO) prepared by an ex situ method exhibits promoted activity that can reach 2.1 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at overpotential of 100 mV. However, it is still far from that of Pt/C (2.3 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Surprisingly, the activity can be further enhanced by the in situ synthetic strategy based on the larger heterointerfaces along with stronger interactions. Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO can achieve 2.9 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at overpotential of 100 mV. The larger kinetics current density (*j <sup>k</sup>* of 11.20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), as well as exchange current density (*j <sup>0</sup>* of 2.74 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) implies its fast kinetics and high intrinsic activity. Meanwhile, as-fabricated Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO shows ultrahigh stability toward HOR, which can maintain the catalytic current density for over 40 h or 10 000 cycles. Further density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the tuned d-band electronic structures by constructing the heterostructure owing to the transfer of electrons across the boundary of heterophase, optimize and balance the HBE and OHBE. It facilitates the alkaline HOR process on the heterostructure ultimately.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The scheme of the synthetic process for in situ fabrication of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO is depicted in **Figure 1**a, involving a hydrothermal treatment and followed by an annealing process under a NH3 atmosphere. In the synthetic process, the nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO3)2·6H2O) and ammonium molybdate tetrahydrate ((NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O) were served as the precursors of Ni and Mo elements. Additionally, rGO was used as the support of the heterostructure for enhancing the conductivity. The growth mechanism of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO was investigated by the X-ray diffraction (XRD) and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) (Figure 1b; and Figure S1, Supporting Information). It can be found that the NiMoO4·xH2O is generated as the intermediate during the hydrothermal treatment. During the annealing process under ammonia atmosphere, the lattice water

16163028, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202300593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** a,b) The TEM images, and c) HAADF-STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images of the intermediate annealed at 350 oC. d,e) TEM images, and f) HAADF-STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images of the Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO.

is evaporated below 280 oC (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Subsequently, the NiMoO4 is gradually reduced and nitrided with the increase of the heating temperature. Interestingly, the reduction of hexagonal-close-packed (hcp) Ni from Ni-rich intermediate can be found at 350 oC. The face-centered-cubic (fcc) Ni starts to generate at 400 oC. Finally, with the complete transformation of hcp Ni into fcc Ni at 500 oC, the heterostructure of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO is produced. For comparison, we synthesized the rGO supported heterostructure between Ni0.2Mo0.8N and Ni NPs (Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO) by an ex situ method as well, namely, combination of the Ni0.2Mo0.8N and Ni(OH)2, the precursor of Ni NPs, and followed by an annealing process under H2 (5%)/Ar atmosphere (for details see Experimental Section). In addition, rGO loaded Ni0.2Mo0.8N (Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO) and Ni NPs (Ni/rGO) were also fabricated as comparisons (for details see Experimental Section).

The crystal structures of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO and Ni/rGO were studied by XRD (Figure 1c). As observed in the XRD pattern of Ni/rGO, the diffraction peaks at 44.5, 51.8, and 76.4<sup>o</sup> can be assigned to the (111), (200), and (220) facets of fcc Ni (PDF#04-0850). The peaks for Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO at 32.2, 36.5, 49.4, 65.7, 77.6, and 86.5o are corresponding to the (001), (100), (101), (110), (200), and (201) planes of Ni0.2Mo0.8N (PDF#29-0931). The co-existence of fcc Ni and Ni0.2Mo0.8N phases can be both observed through XRD patterns of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO and Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, suggesting the successful preparations of the heterostructures by the in situ and ex situ methods, respectively. Moreover, the mass ratios of Ni NPs (15.39 wt%) and Ni0.2Mo0.8N (70.32 wt%) in the Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO were measured by the inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) (Table S1, Supporting Information). A similar situation regarding the mass ratios in Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO was obtained as well.

The variation of the morphologies during the annealing process for synthesizing heterostructure was investigated by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (Figure S2, Supporting Information). As a result, the Ni NPs can be observed to appear when annealed above 350 oC. Meanwhile, the Ni0.2Mo0.8N exhibits the nanoplates-like morphology stacked by nanosheets (Figure S3, Supporting Information). For further studying the growth mechanism, the intermediate annealed at 350 oC was characterized by the transmission electron microscopy (TEM), as displayed in **Figure 2**a,b. Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanoplates supported Ni NPs with sizes of 10-25 nm can be found in Figure 2a. The lattice fringes with interplanar spacings of 0.20 and 0.21 nm can be assigned to the {011} and (002) planes of hcp Ni. The lattice index of 0.27 nm is attributed to the (001) facet of Ni0.2Mo0.8N. Considering the same lattice direction of Ni0.2Mo0.8N (001) and hcp Ni (01—1) facets, it is inferred that the hcp Ni is epitaxially grown on the surface of Ni0.2Mo0.8N.[20] It means that the Ni0.2Mo0.8N gradually begins to form at this temperature. Additionally, the high angle annular dark field-scanning transmission electron microscope (HAADF-STEM) and corresponding elemental mapping images indicate uniform distribution of Mo and N across the Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanoplates. While, the element of Ni not only distributes in the Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanoplates, but also concentrates in the Ni NPs. The morphologies of Ni/Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, Ni-Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, and Ni/rGO were characterized by the TEM (Figure 2; Figures S4– S6, Supporting Information). As shown in the TEM images of Ni0.2Mo0.8N/rGO, it can be observed the Ni0.2Mo0.8N nanoplates with width of ≈220 nm along with the (101) and (100) facets of Ni0.2Mo0.8N (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, according to the TEM images of Ni/rGO, Ni NPs with sizes of 5–20 nm are found to be supported on the surface of rGO (Figure S5, Supporting Information). As shown in the TEM image of

16163928, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202300393 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 3.** a) The normalized XANES spectra at Ni K-edge of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni foil and NiO. b) Relationships of valence states against the absorption energy in the first derivative of XANES spectra for Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni foil and NiO. c) The normalized XANES spectra at Mo K-edge of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Mo foil. d) Relationships of valence states against the absorption energy in the first derivative of XANES spectra for Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, and Mo foil. e) Experimental data and fits of resulting Fourier-transformed (FT)  $k^3$  weighted  $\chi$ (k)-function of Ni K-edge EXAFS spectra for Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, and Ni foil. Wavelet transforms (WT) for the  $k^3$  weighted EXAFS contour plots of f) Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, g) Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, and h) Ni foil.

Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO in Figure 2d, abundant Ni NPs with sizes of 10–20 nm can be observed to grow on the surface of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanoplates (with width of  $\approx$ 220 nm). According to the highresolution (HR) TEM image in Figure 2e, the interfacial lattice fringes with interplanar spacings of 0.20 and 0.27 nm are assigned to the (111) facet of fcc Ni and (001) facet of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N. Moreover, the fcc Ni NPs are found to be confined in the lattice of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, rather than physically supported or adsorbed on the surface. The structure fuses these two components together and results in a stronger interaction, which is believed to be in favor of enhancing the catalytic activity.  $^{[21]}$  However, unlike the Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, the Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO generated by an ex situ method shows more seamed heterostructures. Namely, the Ni NPs are more like being supported on the Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanoplates (Figure S6, Supporting Information). At the same time, the distribution of Ni NPs on the Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N nanoplates is uneven as well. It will weaken the interaction and lead to inferior performance.[16] Additionally, the uniform distributions of Mo, Ni, and N across the Ni<sub>0,2</sub>Mo<sub>0,8</sub>N nanoplates and concentration of Ni in Ni NPs can be observed in the HAADF-STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO (Figure 2f).

The valence states of  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N/rGO$ ,  $Ni-Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N/rGO$ , and  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N/rGO$  were investigated by the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figure S7, Supporting Information). As a result, XPS characterizations reveal the successful fabrication of heterostructure between Ni and  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  as well as the transfer of electrons from Ni to  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ . Besides, it confirms the weaker interaction between Ni and  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  prepared by the ex situ method as well.

Furthermore, X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) spectroscopy was conducted to in-depth study the valence states and the coordination environments of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO.<sup>[22]</sup> X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO were recorded at the Ni K-edge, respectively (Figure 3a). The XANES spectra of Ni foil and NiO were also examined as comparisons. The XANES spectra of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibit the same absorption energy of the white line intensity at 8343.2 eV, maybe owing to the Ni-N bonds. The valence states of Ni in various materials were analyzed through the positions of highest absorption energy of the first derivative for XANES spectra at Ni K-edge (Figure S8a, Supporting Information).[23] As presented in Figure 3b, Ni and NiO show absorption energies of 8333.0 and 8347.0 eV, respectively, indicating the Ni<sup>0</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup>. The Ni<sub>0,2</sub>Mo<sub>0,8</sub>N/rGO possesses an absorption energy of 8338.0 eV, suggesting the atomic nature of Ni with a lower valence state as compared with that of Ni<sup>2+</sup> in NiO. Interestingly, after constructing the heterostructure between metallic Ni and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, the absorption energy increases to 8339.1 eV. Meanwhile, Mo atom in Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO (20 000.7 eV) exhibits a lower valence state very close to that of Mo foil (20 000.0 eV), which is much lower than that in Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N (20 003.7 eV) (Figure 3c,d; Figure S8b, Supporting Information). It represents the transfer of electrons from Ni sites to Mo sites, which should be the essence of the interaction occurred in the heterostructure.

As shown in the Fourier-transformed (FT) Ni K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra in Figure 3e, the peak at 1.6 Å on the spectra of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO is attributed to the nearest Ni–N bonds. The peak loaded at 2.1 Å is

16163928, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202300393 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. a) Polarization curves of HOR on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni/rGO, Ni/rGO, and Pt/C electrocatalysts in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH with rotating speeds of 1600 r. p. m. at scan rates of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (25 °C). b) HER/HOR Tafel plots of kinetics current densities on various electrocatalysts. c) Polarization curves of HOR on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO at different rotating speeds, and d) is the corresponding Koutecky-Levich plot at η = 50 mV. e) Comparisons of HOR activity in  $j_0$  and  $j_k$  on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and various current documented state-of-the-art PGM-free electrocatalysts. f) The chronoamperometric plots of HOR on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Pt/C electrocatalysts with same initial current densities of 2.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> tested at 30, 59, and 52 mV versus RHE, respectively. Polarization curves of HOR on g) Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, h) Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, and i) Pt/C electrocatalysts before and after corresponding cycles.

corresponding to the Ni-Ni bonds of Ni foil in the first shell. It can be found that the EXAFS spectrum of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibits combined features of both Ni and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, indicating the successful fabrication of heterostructure. Furthermore, the experimental data were well fitted to the cubic structure of fcc Ni (Fm-3m(225)) and hexagonal structure of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N (P-6m2(187)) (Table S2, Supporting Information). Fitting the EXAFS spectrum of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO yields a Ni-N bond with length of 2.073 Å and coordination number (CN) of 5.859 along with a Ni-Ni bond with length of 2.482 Å and CN of 10.458. The CN of Ni-Ni bond is smaller than that of Ni foil (11.656), which can be rationalized by the nanoscale particle sizes.<sup>[7a]</sup> Meanwhile, considering the similar lengths of Ni-Ni bonds in both Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Ni foil, it implies that N has not been doped into the Ni NPs of heterostructure during annealing under NH3 atmosphere. [7a] As depicted in Figure 3f-h, the coordination features of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, and Ni foil were analyzed by the wavelet transforms (WT) for the  $k^3$  weighted EXAFS spectra. The contour plot of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO is correlated with a k value of 7.3 Å<sup>-1</sup>, which is higher than that of  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N/rGO$  (5.1 Å<sup>-1</sup>) and a little lower than that of Ni foil (7.6  $Å^{-1}$ ). It means that the heterostructure of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO possesses the combined feature of coordination environments.

To investigate the catalytic performance of HOR on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO electrocatalyst, a standard three-electrodesystem was used to test in a H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution with a rotating speed of 1600 revolutions per minute (r. p. m.) at a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (for details see Electrochemical Measurements, Supporting Information). The polarization curves of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni/rGO, and Pt/C electrocatalysts were examined for comparisons as well. All linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) curves of HOR were iR-corrected. It is worth noting that the optimized testing conditions were adopted for the measurements of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO (Figures S9 and S10, Supporting Information). In addition, it has been proved that the anodic current densities of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, and Pt/C electrocatalysts in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 м KOH solutions are both due to the oxidation of H<sub>2</sub> (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Additionally, the HOR activity of intermediate for synthesize  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N/rGO$  that was annealed at 350 °C was tested as well (Figure S12, Supporting Information). It shows inferior activity, maybe because of the lower crystalline degree. As displayed in Figure 4a, Ni/rGO and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO only exhibit ignorable activities toward HOR, owing to the unbalanced HBE and OHBE.[24] After compounding Ni NPs with Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N by an ex situ method, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO shows an enhanced HOR activity that can

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

reach 2.1 mA cm $^{-2}$  at overpotential of 100 mV. It is due to the occurring interaction between Ni and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N.  $^{[15c,25]}$  However, it is still far from that of Pt/C (2.3 mA cm $^{-2}$ ). Surprisingly, the catalytic activity of heterostructure between Ni and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N can be further improved by in situ fabrication. The HOR on Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO can achieve 2.9 mA cm $^{-2}$  at overpotential of 100 mV. The promotion of HOR on Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO is assigned to the more seamless heterointerfaces and resulting in stronger interaction.  $^{[20]}$ 

The kinetics current density  $(j_k)$  without interference of mass transfer of H2 can be calculated through HER/HOR Tafel plots.<sup>[26]</sup> As presented in Figure 4b, at 50 mV versus RHE, a geometric  $j_k$  of 11.20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is obtained for Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, which exhibits 3.0- and 2.6 fold increases as compared with those of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO (3.68 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (4.35 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) electrocatalysts. Additionally, similar values of  $j_k$  for various electrocatalysts can be yielded through Koutecky-Levich equation as well (Figure 4c,d; Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information; for details see Electrochemical Measurements, Supporting Information).[13a] It can be noted that the Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibits a mass specific kinetics current density  $(j_{k,m})$  of 19.41 A  $g^{-1}_{Ni}$  at 50 mV, which is 3.73 times of Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO (5.21 A  $g^{-1}_{Ni}$ ). Interestingly, the Koutecky-Levich plot of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO obtained at 50 mV presents a linear relationship between the inverse of overall current density against the square root of the rotation rate, which calculates a slope of 4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>, equaling to the theoretical value for the two-electron process of HOR. [27] The exchange current densities  $(j_0)$  of HOR on various electrocatalysts were extracted from the linear fitting of micro-polarization regions (-5 to 5 mV, Figure S15, Supporting Information). As a result, Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO possesses a  $j_0$ of 2.74 mA cm $^{-2}$ , much higher than those of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO (2.27 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (2.14 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) electrocatalysts. The values are in good agreement with the fitting results of Butler-Volmer equation in Tafel plots (for details see Electrochemical Measurements, Supporting Information). Larger values of  $j_k$  and  $j_0$  mean higher intrinsic activity as well as faster kinetics of HOR on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO. Consequently, as-prepared Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO is at the similar or even better level in terms of  $i_0$  and  $i_k$  as compared with those of current reported state-of-the-art PGM-free catalysts for HOR in alkaline medium (Figure 4e; and Table S3, Supporting Information). Moreover, the smaller reaction resistance and largest electrochemical surface area (ECSA) are believed to contribute to the enhanced activity of HOR on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO as well (Figures S16–S18, Supporting Information).

The chronoamperometric plots of HOR on Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO, Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO and Pt/C electrocatalysts were examined at the same initial current densities of 2.0 mA cm $^{-2}$  to measure their stabilities. As a result, the catalytic current density of Pt/C decays rapidly from 2.0 to 0.2 mA cm $^{-2}$  within only 40 h, almost losing the catalytic capability. The current density of Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO declines from 2.0 to 1.3 mA cm $^{-2}$  in 40 h, with a 35% loss of activity. Amazingly, the current density of Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO decreases to 1.9 mA cm $^{-2}$ , indicating only 5% loss. The stabilities of HOR were further tested by applying continuous linear potential scans between -5 to 100 mV versus RHE. The polarization curves of HOR on

Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO are almost unchanged after 5000 and 10 000 cycles. The current density at  $\eta=50$  mV only decreases from 2.5 to 2.4 mA cm $^{-2}$  after 10 000 cycles, implying only 4% loss. However, the losses of j at  $\eta=50$  mV for Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO and Pt/C electrocatalysts after 10 000 cyclers are 25% and 93%, respectively. Additionally, the structure, valence states and morphology of Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO are unchanged after stability test (Figures S19 and S20, Supporting Information). The ultrahigh stability of HOR on Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO can be attributed to the stronger binding strength as well as excellent oxidation resistance to prevent the aggregation and oxidation of Ni NPs (Figure S21, Supporting Information). [15a]

It has been believed that the efficient electrocatalysts for HOR commonly possess good activity toward hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in alkaline media, the reverse reaction of HOR (Figure S22a, Supporting Information). As a result, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and Ni/rGO only show inferior intrinsic activities. Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibits a promoted activity that requires 63 mV of overpotential to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, close to that of Pt/C (56 mV). Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibits Ptlike onset potential of zero and can achieve current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at overpotential of only 27 mV. Additionally, Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO possesses accelerated kinetics (with a Tafel slope of only 31 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) together with the high stability (can maintain the current density of 25 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for over 20 h) (Figures S22b and S23, Supporting Information). It is even superior to that of Pt/C.

To further unveil the mechanism of HOR process on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO, the electrochemical in situ Raman spectroscopy was conducted in 0.1 M KOH under HOR conditions. At the same time, the in situ Raman spectra of Ni/rGO and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO were collected for comparisons as well. The bands at 446 cm<sup>-1</sup> on the in situ Raman spectra of Ni/rGO are assigned to the Ni-O vibrations, owing to the intrinsic oxidation of Ni NPs (Figure S24a, Supporting Information).[30] The Raman bands observed at 851 cm<sup>-1</sup> are believed to be attributed to the adsorption of H on Ni sites (Ni-H<sub>ad</sub>).<sup>[31]</sup> However, no vibration features caused by the adsorption of hydroxyl can be found in the in situ Raman spectra. It is in good agreement with the bifunctional theory developed by Markovic et al., e.g., Ni possesses too strong HBE and weak OHBE to catalyze alkaline HOR activity.[32] The Raman bands at 354 and 549 cm<sup>-1</sup> on the in situ spectra of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO are assigned to the MoO<sub>4</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> vibrations (Figure S24b, Supporting Information).<sup>[33]</sup> Interestingly, sharp bands that appeared at 718 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be attributed to the OH<sub>ad</sub> species.<sup>[34]</sup> It represents that the OHBE is greatly enhanced due to the introduction of the oxyphilic element (Mo) and the construction of metal nitride. Meanwhile, the features of M-H<sub>ad</sub> are found to red-shift to 823 cm<sup>-1</sup>, indicating weaker H bonding strength.[35] However, the weak amplitudes of the bands indicate the very low coverage of \*OH intermediate on the surface, which cannot yield the appropriate activity. [36] The bands at  $\approx 500$  cm<sup>-1</sup> on the in situ Raman spectra of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO are assigned to the Ni-O vibrations (Figure S24c, Supporting Information).[37] Meanwhile, bands at 720 and 805 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be attributed to the Mo-OH<sub>ad</sub> and Ni-H<sub>ad</sub> bonds. It means the comparable OHBE to Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO and much weaker HBE than Ni/rGO. In addition, the balanced intensities of characteristic modes for H<sub>ad</sub> and OH<sub>ad</sub> imply reasonable coverages of H<sub>ad</sub> and OH<sub>ad</sub> species on

16163928, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202300393 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 5. a) Gibbs free energy diagrams of alkaline HOR on the surfaces of  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ ,  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  and Ni. b) Histograms of HBE and OHBE on the surfaces of  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ ,  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ ,  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  and Ni. c) The density of state (DOS) plots of various models for adsorptions of \*H, \*OH, and \*H<sub>2</sub>O. d) The d-band centers of  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ ,  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ ,  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ , and Ni. g) The calculated diagram of charge density distribution in  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ . h) The optimal binding structure of \*H<sub>2</sub>O during HOR process on  $Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$ .

the surface of heterostructure, which is beneficial for the rapid completion of Volmer step.

To identify the enhancements of alkaline HOR on the heterostructure of Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed to clarify the mechanism and active sites.<sup>[38]</sup> Three types of computational models were established, including Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N, Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N, and Ni. Recent advances demonstrate that the alkaline HOR process on highly efficient PGM-free electrocatalysts generally follows the Tafel-Volmer mechanism, i.e., the adsorption of H species ( $H_2 \rightarrow 2H_{ad}$ ) and followed by the formation of water ( $H_{ad} + OH^- \rightarrow H_2O + e^-$ ). [2b,6a] Thus, the Gibbs free energies for HOR process on those three models were calculated. As shown in **Figure 5**a, the Gibbs free energy diagrams were obtained based on the optimized binding structures and energies of intermediates on the surface of catalysts. For both three electrocatalysts, the rate-determining step

(RDS) during HOR is the combination of reactive \*H and \*OH species to form water. Ni exhibits an energy barrier of 0.97 eV. Unexpectedly, Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N shows an enlarged energy barrier of 1.92 eV, suggesting an inferior intrinsic activity. Despite the high energy barrier of each component, Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N possesses a lowest energy barrier of only 0.51 eV, indicating the highest activity. Additionally, the DFT calculation indicates that the introduction of rGO in the electrocatalyst cannot significantly tune the electronic structures of heterostructure and enhance the catalytic activity toward HOR (Figure S25, Supporting Information). However, the application of rGO as the support of heterostructure can greatly improve the conductivity and results in higher activity.[39] On the other hand, the \*H (HBE) and \*OH (OHBE) binding energies were also simulated to study the essence of the improvements (Figure 5b). Ni exhibits a HBE of 0.69 eV along with an OHBE of 0.43 eV. After alloying with N and introducing

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

oxyphile element of Mo, the OHBE of  $\mathrm{Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N}$  is greatly increased to 5.84 eV. It has been believed that the stronger OHBE is more crucial to enhance the HOR activity on the as-prepared heterostructure. Nevertheless, such a strategy always sacrifices the adsorption of H species for enhancing the OHBE, which shows a stronger HBE of 1.36 eV. Excitingly, weakening the HBE (0.52 eV) along with enhancing the OHBE (5.31 eV) have been realized upon constructing heterostructure of  $\mathrm{Ni/Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N}$ . It indicates that it successfully achieves the balancing as well as optimizing the HBE and OHBE to boost HOR on the heterostructure.

To provide insight into the balanced and optimized binding energies of intermediates on Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, the density of state (DOS) has been calculated (Figure 5c-e).[40] Owing to the strong electronic coupling between N and metal atoms, the highest energy positions of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N below Fermi level are found to downshift as compared with that of Ni. It is beneficial for the adsorption of \*OH but hampers the weakening of HBE. However, because of the bifunctional boundary of heterophase, the positions of highest energy in DOS plots for Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N are upshifted than those of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, which can greatly weaken the binding with \*H. Similar results are obtained through the diagrams of d-band center, where the downshifting average d-band center of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N can be observed. According to the diagram of charge distribution in Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N depicted in Figure 5g, the electrons transfer from Ni to Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N at the heterointerfaces. It can be confirmed to be the essence of the interaction that occurred in the heterostructure. Moreover, the active sites are determined and the optimized structures of the intermediates adsorbed on the surfaces are displayed in Figure 5h and Figures S26-S28, Supporting Information, whereby the Ni sites of Ni NPs at the interfaces are the active sites for \*H, and Mo sites of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N at the boundary are more sensitive for \*OH. The above results of DFT calculations illustrate that d-band electronic structures can be tuned by constructing the heterostructure of Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N owing to the transfer of electrons across the heterointerfaces, thus facilitating the optimized and balanced HBE as well as OHBE. It will result in the enhanced activity for HOR in alkaline medium ultimately.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, an in situ synthetic strategy was applied to construct heterostructure between Ni NPs and nitride of Ni-Mo alloy (Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N) in this report. The growth mechanism for the preparation of rGO supported Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N has been studied and proposed, including the formation of NiMoO<sub>4</sub> intermediate during hydrothermal treatment, the separation of hcp Ni NPs together with the nitridation of NiMoO4 during the annealing process, and finally transformation into the rGO supported heterostructure of fcc Ni NPs and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N (Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO). Thanks to the preparation by in situ method, there were more seamless heterointerfaces between Ni NPs and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N, rather than physically supported or adsorbed Ni NPs on the surfaces of Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N. It was confirmed that the electrons transfer from Ni atoms to Mo atoms. Meanwhile, based on abundant heterointerfaces, Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO showed stronger interaction as compared with heterostructure synthesized by an ex situ method (Ni-Ni<sub>0,2</sub>Mo<sub>0,8</sub>N/rGO). Xray adsorption spectroscopy revealed the variation of valence stats in the heterostructure along with the coordination environments. As a result, Ni/rGO and Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO only possessed negligible activities toward alkaline HOR. Because of the occurred interaction, Ni-Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibited an improved activity that can achieve 2.1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at overpotential of 100 mV. But it still lags far behind that of Pt/C (2.3 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Amazingly, as-prepared Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO by an in situ method showed enhanced activity toward alkaline HOR, which can reach  $2.9~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$  at overpotential of 100~mV. At the same time, Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO exhibited higher values of  $j_k$  (11.20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and  $j_0$  (2.74 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), which is at the similar level as compared to those of reported state-of-the-art PGM-free catalysts recently, implying fast kinetics as well as high intrinsic activity. Ni/Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mo<sub>0.8</sub>N/rGO presented ultrahigh stability for HOR in alkaline, which can maintain the catalytic current density for over 40 h or 10 000 cycles. Additionally, it has been proved to be a highly efficient and durable non-precious metal electrocatalyst for HER in alkaline medium as well. Further DFT calculations revealed that the d-band electronic structures are tuned by constructing heterostructure, owing to the transfer of electrons across the heterointerfaces. It optimizes and balances the HBE and OHBE on the boundary of the heterophase, finally facilitating and enhancing the alkaline HOR on the heterostructure. This study is of significance for designing the non-precious metal electrocatalysts for alkaline HOR, clarifying the methodology of heterostructures, and revealing the structure-activity relationships.

### 4. Experiment Section

Synthesis Chemicals: Nickel nitrate hexahydrate  $(Ni(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O, AR)$ , ammonium molybdate tetrahydrate  $((NH_4)_6Mo_7O_{24} \cdot 4H_2O, AR)$ , potassium hydroxide (KOH, semiconductor grade), and isopropanol  $(C_3H_8O, AR)$  were purchased from Shanghai Macklin Biochemical Co., Ltd. Graphene oxide (GO, 5 mg mL $^{-1}$ ) was obtained from the sixth element Inc. Nitric acid  $(HNO_3, AR)$ , ethylene glycol  $(C_2H_6O_2, AR)$ , ammonia solution  $(NH_3 \cdot H_2O, 25\%)$ , and hydrochloric acid (HCl, AR) were purchased from Guangzhou Chemical Reagent Factory. All chemicals were used without any further purification.

Synthesis of Reduced Graphene Oxide Supported Heterostructure between Ni Nanoparticles and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N by an In Situ Method (Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO): First, Ni(NO $_{3}$ ) $_{2}$ ·6H $_{2}$ O (3.00 mmol) and (NH $_{4}$ ) $_{6}$ Mo $_{7}$ O $_{24}$ ·4H $_{2}$ O (0.48 mmol) were dissolved into deionized water (50.0 mL). After stirring for 30 min, graphene oxide (10.0 mL, 5 mg mL $^{-1}$ ) was put into the resulting mixture and then further stirred for another 30 min. The resulting mixture was then transferred to a Teflon-lined autoclave (100.0 mL). The autoclave was sealed and heated at 180 °C for 10 h under magnetic stirring, and then cooled down to room temperature naturally. Subsequently, the resulting product (reduced graphene oxide supported NiMoO $_{4}$ . NiMoO $_{4}$ /rGO) was washed with deionized water and ethanol for several times and dried at 60 °C in an oven. Afterward, the as-prepared NiMoO $_{4}$ /rGO precursor was annealed in a tube furnace system at 500 °C for 3 h under a NH $_{3}$  atmosphere.

Synthesis of Reduced Graphene Oxide Supported  $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N$  ( $Ni_{0.2}Mo_{0.8}N/rGO$ ): Generally, during the nitridation process under NH $_3$  atmosphere, Ni and Mo atoms act as Lewis soft acid to react with NH $_3$  molecules as Lewis hard base. According to hard and soft acids and bases (HSAB) theory, the Ni atoms possess greater absolute hardness ( $\eta=3.25$ ) than Mo atoms ( $\eta=3.1$ ), which tends to transfer onto the surface of the oxide precursor. [41] The Ni atoms on the surface of precursor will generate the Ni NPs under appropriate conditions, while the residual Ni and Mo atoms will react with NH $_3$  molecules to produce Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N phase. Thus, the pure Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N phase was considered to be impossible to prepare only by general synthetic strategy. [41] Thus, the

ADVANCED FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS 1616932, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/0.1002/atmf.202300393 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library of [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/ter

as-prepared Ni/Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO was put into 12.0  $\,$ m HCl solution and ultrasonically treated for 1  $\,$ h. Then, the resulting mixture was washed with deionized water and ethanol for several times and dried at 60  $\,$ °C.

Synthesis of Reduced Graphene Oxide Supported Heterostructure between Ni Nanoparticles and Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N by an Ex Situ Method (Ni-Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO): As-prepared Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO (50.0 mg) and Ni(NO $_3$ ) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O (0.22 mmol) were put into 5.0 mL deionized water and then stirred for 30 min. Afterward, 2.0 mL NH $_3$ ·H $_2$ O was added to the mixture and then stirred for another 5 min. At the same time, 45.0 mL of C $_2$ H $_6$ O $_2$  was put into the resulting mixture and then heated at 150 °C for 30 min under a magnetic string to obtain Ni(OH) $_2$ -Ni $_{0.2}$ Mo $_{0.8}$ N/rGO precursor. The resulting precursor was then placed into a tube furnace system and annealed at 400 °C for 8 h under a H $_2$  (5%)/Ar atmosphere to obtain Ni-Ni $_0$ 2Mo $_0$ 8N/rGO.

Synthesis of Reduced Graphene Oxide Supported Ni Nanoparticles (Ni/rGO): Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (0.22 mmol) and 10.0 mL graphene oxide (5 mg mL<sup>-1</sup>) were mixed and stirred for 30 min. Subsequently, 2.0 mL NH<sub>3</sub>·H<sub>2</sub>O was added to the mixture and stirred for another 5 min. At the same time, 45.0 mL of C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>6</sub>O<sub>2</sub> was put into the resulting mixture and then heated at 150 °C for 30 min under a magnetic string to obtain Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/rGO precursor. The as-prepared precursor was placed into a tube furnace system and annealed at 400 °C for 1 h under a H<sub>2</sub> (5%)/Ar atmosphere to obtain Ni/rGO.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

C.H. and M.F. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21802024 and 51920105004), the Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province (2023A1515030188), and the Science and Technology Program of Guangzhou (2023A04J1373).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

#### **Keywords**

alkaline medium, anion exchange membrane fuel cells, heterostructures, hydrogen oxidation reaction, platinum group metal-free electrocatalysts

Received: January 16, 2023 Revised: April 10, 2023 Published online: May 10, 2023

[1] a) K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. Bao, B. Xie, B. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. Fan, H. Wang, Z. Hou, S. Huo, N. P. Brandon, Y. Yin, M. D. Guiver, *Nature* 2021, 595, 361; b) F. Xiao, Y. C. Wang, Z. P. Wu, G. Chen, F. Yang, S. Zhu, K. Siddharth, Z. Kong, A. Lu, J. C. Li, C. J. Zhong, Z. Y. Zhou, M. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* 2021, 33, 2006292; c) J. Zhang, W. Zhu, T. Huang, C. Zheng, Y. Pei, G. Shen, Z. Nie, D. Xiao, Y. Yin, M. D. Guiver, *Adv. Sci.* 2021, 8, 2100284.

- [2] a) T. Bhowmik, M. K. Kundu, S. Barman, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 1929; b)
  G. Zhao, Y. Jiang, S.-X. Dou, W. Sun, H. Pan, Sci. Bull. 2021, 66, 85.
- [3] a) L. Yang, J. Shui, L. Du, Y. Shao, J. Liu, L. Dai, Z. Hu, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1804799; b) Y. Zhu, B. Zhang, X. Liu, D. W. Wang, D. S. Su, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 10673.
- [4] a) W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y. C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 10797; b) B. Xiong, W. Zhao, H. Tian, W. Huang, L. Chen, J. Shi, Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 432, 134189; c) J. R. Varcoe, P. Atanassov, D. R. Dekel, A. M. Herring, M. A. Hickner, P. A. Kohl, A. R. Kucernak, W. E. Mustain, K. Nijmeijer, K. Scott, T. Xu, L. Zhuang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2014, 7, 3135.
- [5] Z. C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, ACS Nano 2022, 16, 5153.
- [6] a) G. Zhao, J. Chen, W. Sun, H. Pan, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2010633; b) J. Mao, C. T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, Nano Lett. 2020, 20, 3442; c) P. Han, N. Yao, W. Zuo, W. Luo, Chin. J. Catal. 2022, 43, 1527.
- [7] a) X. Zhao, X. Li, L. An, K. Iputera, J. Zhu, P. Gao, R.-S. Liu, Z. Peng, J. Yang, D. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2022, 15, 1234; b) Y. Li, Z. Li, H. Cong, C. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2022, 10, 3682.
- [8] a) W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Heroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schuler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, Nat. Mater. 2022, 21, 804; b) X. Wang, X. Li, T. Cai, Y. Cui, D. Kong, J. Xu, H. Hu, Y. Wang, H. Hu, X. Gao, Y. Li, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, L. Zhao, W. Xing, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 425, 130654; c) E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 6665; d) Y. Cong, B. Yi, Y. Song, Nano Energy 2018, 44, 288.
- [9] a) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, Nat. Chem. 2013, 5, 300; b) E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 3232.
- [10] T. Wang, M. Wang, H. Yang, M. Xu, C. Zuo, K. Feng, M. Xie, J. Deng, J. Zhong, W. Zhou, T. Cheng, Y. Li, Energy Environ. Sci. 2019, 12, 3522.
- [11] a) I. Ledezma-Yanez, W. D. Z. Wallace, P. Sebastián-Pascual, V. Climent, J. M. Feliu, M. T. M. Koper, Nat. Energy 2017, 2, 17031; b) X. Chen, I. T. McCrum, K. A. Schwarz, M. J. Janik, M. T. M. Koper, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 15025.
- [12] X. Wang, Y. Tong, X. Li, L. Zhao, Y. Cui, Y. Wang, H. Hu, T. Cai, M. Wu, H. Hu, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, W. Xing, Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 445, 136700.
- [13] a) Y. Men, X. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. Ge, S. Jia, L. Li, J. Wang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 12661; b) F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 14179.
- [14] a) X. Zhao, X. Li, L. An, L. Zheng, J. Yang, D. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2022, 61, 202206588; b) W. Ni, A. Krammer, C. S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, A. Schuler, X. Hu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 7445.
- [15] a) F. Yang, P. Han, N. Yao, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, Chem. Sci. 2020, 11, 12118; b) H. Hou, X. Zeng, X. Zhang, Sci. China Mater. 2020, 63, 2119; c) F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, P. Liao, Y. Sun, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4531; d) L. Su, D. Gong, N. Yao, Y. Li, Z. Li, W. Luo, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2106156.
- [16] G. Zhao, K. Rui, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1803291.
- [17] a) F. Chen, J. Ren, F. Cheng, D. Cao, M. Qiao, B. Wu, N. Zheng, ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2021, 4, 11473; b) B. Zhang, J. Wang, J. Liu, L. Zhang, H. Wan, L. Miao, J. Jiang, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 9332.
- [18] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, G. Zhang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2103673.
- [19] J. Song, Y. Q. Jin, L. Zhang, P. Dong, J. Li, F. Xie, H. Zhang, J. Chen, Y. Jin, H. Meng, X. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2003511.
- [20] C. Zhu, A. L. Wang, W. Xiao, D. Chao, X. Zhang, N. H. Tiep, S. Chen, J. Kang, X. Wang, J. Ding, J. Wang, H. Zhang, H. J. Fan, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1705516.

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202300593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [21] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.
- [22] a) W. Li, M. Li, Y. Hu, J. Lu, A. Lushington, R. Li, T. Wu, T. K. Sham, X. Sun, *Small Methods* **2018**, *2*, 1700341; b) Y. Peng, C. Huang, J. Huang, M. Feng, X. Qiu, X. Yue, S. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2201011.
- [23] H. Zeng, S. Chen, Y. Q. Jin, J. Li, J. Song, Z. Le, G. Liang, H. Zhang, F. Xie, J. Chen, Y. Jin, X. Chen, H. Meng, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, 1908.
- [24] a) M. Lao, P. Li, Y. Jiang, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *98*, 107231; b) X. Zhang, G. Ma, L. Shui, G. Zhou, X. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 132666.
- [25] D. Zhang, H. Li, A. Riaz, A. Sharma, W. Liang, Y. Wang, H. Chen, K. Vora, D. Yan, Z. Su, A. Tricoli, C. Zhao, F. J. Beck, K. Reuter, K. Catchpole, S. Karuturi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 185.
- [26] Y. Duan, Z. Y. Yu, L. Yang, L. R. Zheng, C. T. Zhang, X. T. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, H. H. Ding, C. Gu, X. S. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789.
- [27] Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141.
- [28] F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, T. Yan, X. Liu, Y. Rao, P. Liao, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1594.
- [29] M. Feng, J. Huang, Y. Peng, C. Huang, X. Yue, S. Huang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *428*, 131206.
- [30] A. Y. Faid, A. O. Barnett, F. Seland, S. Sunde, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *361*, 137040.

- [31] W. Lai, L. Ge, H. Li, Y. Deng, B. Xu, B. Ouyang, E. Kan, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 26861.
- [32] a) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300; b) E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232.
- [33] a) Q. Zhang, J. Zhang, H. Yang, Y. Dong, Y. Liu, L. Yang, D. Wei, W. Wang, L. Bai, H. Chen, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2019**, *9*, 2915; b) J. Liu, R. Hu, H. Liu, J. Ma, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2017**, *718*, 349.
- [34] H. Ze, X. Chen, X. T. Wang, Y. H. Wang, Q. Q. Chen, J. S. Lin, Y. J. Zhang, X. G. Zhang, Z. Q. Tian, J. F. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 1318.
- [35] J. Huang, H. Sheng, R. D. Ross, J. Han, X. Wang, B. Song, S. Jin, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3036.
- [36] X. M. Lin, X. T. Wang, Y. L. Deng, X. Chen, H. N. Chen, P. M. Radjenovic, X. G. Zhang, Y. H. Wang, J. C. Dong, Z. Q. Tian, J. F. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 5544.
- [37] K. S. Joya, X. Sala, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2015**, *17*, 21094.
- [38] R. Zhao, X. Yue, Q. Li, G. Fu, J. M. Lee, S. Huang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2100391.
- [39] M. Feng, J. Huang, Y. Peng, C. Huang, X. Yue, S. Huang, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 13834.
- [40] S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [41] B. Wang, L. Guo, J. Zhang, Y. Qiao, M. He, Q. Jiang, Y. Zhao, X. Shi, F. Zhang, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2201927.