---
source: Liu 等 - 2023 - Tailoring Interfacial Charge Transfer of Epitaxially Grown Ir Clusters for Boosting Hydrogen Oxidati.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.928s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:06:29.473775Z
---

**www.advenergymat.de**

# **Tailoring Interfacial Charge Transfer of Epitaxially Grown Ir Clusters for Boosting Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction**

*Dan-Qing Liu, Zhouxin Luo, Bingxing Zhang, Guoqiang Zhao, Wei Guo, Jian Chen, Mingxia Gao, Yongfeng Liu, Hongge Pan, and Wenping Sun\**

**The sluggish kinetics of hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) is one of the critical challenges for anion exchange membrane fuel cells. Here, we report epitaxial growth of Ir nanoclusters (<2 nm) on a MoS2 surface (Ir/MoS2) and optimize the alkaline HOR activity via tailoring interfacial charge transfer between Ir clusters and MoS2. The electron transfer from MoS2 to Ir clusters can effectively prevent the oxidation of Ir clusters, which is not the case for carbon-supported Ir nanoclusters (Ir/C) synthesized using the same method. Moreover, the HOR performance of the Ir/MoS2 can be further optimized by tuning the hydrogen binding energy (HBE) via a precise annealing treatment. A substantial exchange current density of 1.28 mA cmECSA<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is achieved in the alkaline medium, which is ∼10 times over that of Ir/C. The HOR massspecific activity of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure is as high as 182 mA mgIr −1 . The experimental results and density functional theory calculations reveal that the significant improved HOR activity is attributed to the decreased HBE, which highlights epitaxial growth is an effective way for boosting catalytic activity of heterostructured catalysts.**

**1. Introduction**

With the increasing concerns about energy crisis and environmental pollution, hydrogen energy as a viable fossil fuel alternative has drawn ever-growing attention. Hydrogen fuel cells, which can convert hydrogen energy into electricity in a clean and efficient manner, are becoming one of the most promising technologies for the green energy industry. Compared to proton-exchange membrane fuel cells, anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) possess several benefits associated

D.-Q. Liu, Z. Luo, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, W. Guo, M. Gao, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun School of Materials Science and Engineering Zhejiang University Hangzhou 310058, P. R. China E-mail: wenpingsun@zju.edu.cn J. Chen, H. Pan Institute of Science and Technology for New Energy Xi'an Technological University Xi'an 710021, P. R. China W. Sun State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization

Zhejiang University Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202202913.

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202202913**

with the milder alkaline electrolyte including a possibility of using platinum group metal (PGM)-free catalysts, a longer lifetime for the overall fuel cell device and a decreased degradation and corrosion to the PGM catalysts.[1–5] However, the sluggish kinetics of anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline medium, even in the case of commercial Pt/C electrocatalyst, significantly limit the performance of the AEMFCs. Thus, many efforts have been devoted to developing active HOR electrocatalysts and lowering PGM loadings.[6–11] Despite these extensive researches, rendering HOR activity in alkaline medium for practical use and understanding its mechanism in depth still remain challenging.[12–16]

Recent studies have demonstrated that supported sub-nanometer cluster catalysts (SNCCs) (<2 nm) can exhibit enhanced catalytic performance due to their unique

geometric and electronic structure as well as synergistic effect among the atoms within the clusters.[17–20] The supported SNCCs also exhibit high atom utilization efficiency and can expose much more active atoms than corresponding nanoparticles in catalytic reactions. Meanwhile, compared with singleatom catalysts with uniformly isolated catalytic sites, the supported SNCCs can provide abundant active sites for the adsorption and activation of different intermediates. The rich (near-) interfacial metal atoms in the supported SNNCs are responsible for the optimization of adsorption behaviors involved in multiple reaction steps. They can be flexibly modified via metal-support interactions such as interfacial charge transfer and interfacial chemical bonding, which may decrease reaction energy barriers, constitute a new reaction route, and exhibit distinct catalytic activity.[21–25]

One strategy currently being utilized to tune the metal-support interactions of electrocatalysts is epitaxial growth in heterostructures.[26–27] The epitaxial growth is generally beneficial for interfacial electron transfer between two materials, leading to a significant enhancement in catalytic performance. For instance, the lattice confinement effect of Co-Ni3N nanowires has been shown to facilitate electron transfer at the epitaxial interface effectively. This was directly associated with highly boosted hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen evolution reaction activities, which stabilized the H adatom and desorbed the OH<sup>−</sup> quickly.[27] In the application field of HOR, the Ru clusters were partially confined in the lattice of TiO2 crystals, resulting

16146840, 2023, 1, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

in the electron transfer from the TiO2 support to the Ru metal and Ru-Ti bond formation.[28] The highly filled Ru 4d bands contributed to the antioxidation ability and blockage of CO adsorption. The HOR performance in both acidic and alkaline mediums was improved by weakening the surface oxophilicity and hydrogen binding energy (HBE) simultaneously derived from the lattice confinement effect.

The alkaline HOR catalytic activities of Ir-based electrocatalysts have rarely been reported,[12,25,29–30] unlike Pt-based electrocatalysts.[31–36] The Ir metal shows inferior HOR catalytic ability in alkaline solution compared to Pt,[1] despite its more active interaction with hydroxyl species (OHad) than Pt.[1,6] In order to improve the HOR kinetics of Ir catalysts, Ir was alloyed with transitional metals such as Ni[37,38] and Mo,30 was loaded on nitrogen-doped carbon,[39] and was hybridized with Pd nanosheets,29 which can achieve an optimal balance between HBE and hydroxide binding energy. The interfacial charge transfer has been confirmed in these Ir-based heterostructures, which plays an important role for facilitating HOR activity. However, how to modulate the interfacial charge transfer precisely remains a challenge for designing advanced HOR electrocatalysts. Jiang et al.[40] reported the alkaline HOR activity can be modified by changing the concentration of Fe species on the surface of IrFe alloy nanoparticles (NPs). The IrFe/C NPs after dealloying process with a trace level of Fe species (D-IrFe/C), regulated the charge transfer from Fe species to Ir, which obtained a medium OH adsorption for promoting the HOR activity.

In this work, we report an epitaxially grown Ir-based electrocatalyst for alkaline HOR and improve the catalytic activity by tailoring interfacial electron transfer. To construct epitaxially grown SNCCs as mentioned above, 2D MoS2 nanosheets can be used as a potential substrate to direct the epitaxial growth of noble metal nanostructures.[26] We synthesize MoS2-supported epitaxially grown Ir nanoclusters (NCs) and electrons transfer from MoS2 substrate to Ir NCs across the heterointerface, leading to the formation of electron-rich Ir (<2 nm) with a weakened HBE. However, its counterpart, the Ir NCs on carbon black, is easy to be oxidized, hindering its HOR catalytic activity. The alkaline HOR activity can be further enhanced by optimizing the metallic status of the Ir NCs using an annealing treatment. Our results demonstrate the lattice confinement effect can be a promising way to regulate the interface charge transfer for the supported SNCCs, contributing to impressive HOR catalytic performance and beyond.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

To obtain epitaxial growth of ultra-small Ir NCs, ultrathin MoS2 nanosheets were employed as the support since its (100) orientation is evidently aligned with the (111) orientation of Ir nanoparticles. The MoS2 nanosheets were first prepared using a modified hydrothermal method.[41] Then, Ir/MoS2 heterostructure (denoted as Ir/MoS2-RT) was synthesized via a wetchemical process using ethylene glycol (EG) as the reduction reagent. At last, annealing treatment under argon atmosphere at 200 °C and 300 °C was carried out to obtain Ir/MoS2-200 and Ir/MoS2-300 samples (see Experimental Section for details). Ir NCs anchored on carbon black (Ir/C) were synthesized as a control sample, and it was also annealed for comparing the catalytic activity change. A physically mixed Ir/MoS2 was prepared as well to prove the importance of epitaxial growth. As shown in Figure S1, Supporting Information, the diffraction peaks of X-ray diffraction (XRD) at around 14°, 34°, 40°, and 59° all agree well with the standard pattern of hexagonal MoS2 nanosheets (JCPDS 75–1539), corresponding to the (002), (101), (103), and (110) planes, respectively. A broad peak corresponding to the (111) planes of Ir NCs (JCPDS 88–2342) is observed at around 40°, which can be attributed to the ultra-small cluster size and low crystallinity.[42] The Ir content of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure is determined to be 5.75% from the inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) results, which is similar to that of the synthesized Ir/C sample (5.22%).

The successful epitaxial growth of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure was confirmed by transmission electron microscope (TEM) studies as shown in **Figure 1**. Figure 1a displays that ultra-small Ir NCs are uniformly dispersed on the MoS2 nanosheets in the sample of Ir/MoS2-200, with an average diameter of ≈1.8 nm (inset of Figure 1a). The TEM image of the Ir/MoS2-RT sample shows an almost identical morphology with the Ir/MoS2-200 (Figure S2, Supporting Information), while the size of Ir/ MoS2-300 shows an increasing trend (diameter of ≈2.4 nm) in Figure S3, Supporting Information. The TEM images suggest that the diameter of Ir NCs in synthesized Ir/C decreases slightly to 1.6 nm (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The structure and morphology of physically mixed Ir/MoS2 were studied (Figure S5, Supporting Information) and the Ir NCs show an aggregation trend. Detailed TEM analysis was conducted on the Ir/MoS2-200 sample, which clearly reveals the epitaxial growth of Ir NCs on the MoS2 substrate as marked with red boxes in Figure 1b. Figure 1c displays the zoom-in TEM image of area No. 1 in Figure 1b and its corresponding fast Fourier transition (FFT) image. Two sets of diffraction spots that are assigned to the MoS2 and Ir are shown herein, indicating the Ir (111) and Ir 1/3(422) crystal faces grew along the MoS2 (100) face. Note that the Ir (111) and Ir 1/3(422) planes have a theoretical lattice spacing of 2.25 and 2.35 Å, which are too close to distinguish.[26] The FFT images of the rest marked areas in Figure 1b are shown in Figure S6, Supporting Information. The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images of Ir/MoS2-RT and Ir/MoS2-300 as well as their corresponding FFT patterns are shown in Figure S7, Supporting Information. Moreover, there is a clear feature of the Ir (111) lattice fringes with a *d*-spacing of 2.3 Å (Figure 1d). The lattice fringes of MoS2 (100) are also observed with a *d*-spacing of 2.7 Å. The inset herein displays the corresponding FFT pattern of the whole area of Figure 1d. Similar to Figure 1c, the (111) spots (or 1/3(422)) of Ir are evidently aligned with the (100) spots of MoS2. Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) element mappings of Ir, Mo, and S correspond well to the profile of the Ir/MoS2-200 sample as shown in Figure 1e.

The surface chemical states of Ir/MoS2 heterostructures and synthesized Ir/C were examined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The presence of Ir, Mo, S, C, and O elements in all samples was verified by XPS survey spectra as shown in Figure S8, Supporting Information. Analysis of deconvoluted high-resolution spectra for Ir 4f (**Figure 2**a) shows an obvious negative shift of 0.54 eV as compared to Ir/C, indicating the Ir

//advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms

and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons

Figure 1. a) TEM image of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 heterostructure (inset is the corresponding Ir NCs size distribution histogram). b) HRTEM image of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 sample. The red boxes indicate the coexistence of MoS<sub>2</sub> (100) and Ir (111)/Ir 1/3(422). c) The cropped image corresponding to area No. 1 and its FFT pattern. d) HRTEM image of a selected area in Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 (inset: the corresponding fast FFT image). e) Dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM) image of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 heterostructure and the corresponding STEM element mappings for Ir, Mo, and S. Scar bar: 100 nm.

NCs of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT remain metallic state due to epitaxial growth of Ir NCs on MoS<sub>2</sub> support. The Ir  $4f_{7/2}$  and Ir  $4f_{5/2}$  peaks of Ir/ MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT heterostructure for the Ir<sup>0</sup> component possess binding energy (BE) of 61.3 and 64.3 eV, and those peaks for the Ir<sup>4+</sup> component locate at 62.1 and 65.1 eV. They agree well with the typical profiles for Ir<sup>0</sup> and Ir<sup>4+</sup>. [25] After annealing, the metallic Ir decreases slightly in Ir/MoS2-200 sample, where Ir<sup>0</sup> 4f<sub>7/2</sub> is prone to be at higher BE (located at 61.5 eV). For Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-300, the metallic Ir content increases with the increasing of particle size, as evidenced by TEM in Figure S3, Supporting Information (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The S 2p bands of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT sample possess one set of peaks of S 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and S  $2p_{1/2}$  located at 162. 47 and 163.62 eV (Figure 2b). These can be assigned to S<sup>2-</sup> in MoS<sub>2</sub> substrate, but are positively shifted as compared to the S 2p of pure MoS2, suggesting that the electrons transfer from the MoS2 support to the Ir NCs in the heterostructures.<sup>[43]</sup> Negligible BE shift of S 2p for Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 and  $Ir/MoS_2$ -300 (see SI, Figure S10, Supporting Information) over those from  $Ir/MoS_2$ -RT can be monitored. The Mo 3d bands of all samples were examined as well and the results are shown in Figure S11, Supporting Information. For pure  $MoS_2$ , the  $Mo^{4+}$  3d spectra can be deconvoluted into two peaks, which are assigned to Mo  $3d_{5/2}$  at 229.6 eV and Mo  $3d_{3/2}$  at 232.7 eV, respectively. [44-45] There is no binding energy shift for  $Ir/MoS_2$ -RT,  $Ir/MoS_2$ -200, and  $Ir/MoS_2$ -300 compared to pure  $MoS_2$ .

To gain further insight into the electron structure of the epitaxially grown Ir NCs, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) measurements were performed (Figure 2c). As shown from the Ir L<sub>III</sub>-edge XANES spectra, an increment of 5d electron density in Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT electrocatalyst is detected, as clearly evidenced by the much lower white line intensity when compared to synthesized Ir/C. This indicates epitaxial growth of Ir NCs on MoS<sub>2</sub> can promote interfacial charge transfer from the MoS<sub>2</sub> to the ultrafine Ir NCs, which is well

16146840, 2023, 1, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** XPS spectra of a) Ir 4f in synthesized Ir/C, Ir/MoS2-RT, and Ir/MoS2-200 samples and b) S 2p in MoS2, Ir/MoS2-RT, and Ir/MoS2-200 samples. c) Ir LIII-edge XANES spectra of Ir foil, standard IrO2 powders, synthesized Ir/C, Ir/MoS2-RT, Ir/MoS2-200, and Ir/MoS2-300 samples. d) Ir LIII-edge EXAFS spectra of synthesized Ir/C, Ir/MoS2-RT, Ir/MoS2-200, and Ir/MoS2-300. e) WT for the k3 -weighted EXAFS signals of different samples.

consistent with the XPS result. The white line intensities of all Ir/MoS2 electrocatalysts are in the order: Ir/MoS2-200 > Ir/MoS2-RT ≈ Ir/MoS2-300. This confirms that the annealing treatment is a useful method to regulate electron redistribution at Ir-MoS2 interface. In order to investigate the local coordination environment, the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) was analyzed. The least-squares EXAFS curve fittings (Figure 2d) reveal that a prominent peak at 2–3 Å, corresponding to *I*r–*I*r bond [29] exists in all Ir/MoS2 heterostructures and Ir/C. However, the relative intensity of Ir-O (between 1 and 2 Å)[46] of Ir/C is found to be much higher than that of Ir/MoS2 heterostructures, demonstrating a higher Ir-O coordination number in Ir/C, as evidenced in detailed EXAFS fitting results of Table S1, Supporting Information. Formation of epitaxially grown Ir/MoS2-RT results in the increase of Ir-Ir coordination number by around 5.98 compared to Ir/C, which is accompanied by an increase of length bond from 2.68 Å to 2.74 Å, generating lattice tension (2.2%) induced by the MoS2 substrate in the Ir NCs (Table S1, Supporting Information). By annealing at 200 °C, the Ir-Ir bond length in Ir/MoS2-200 sample decreases back to 2.69 Å, where the elimination of lattice tension would decrease its HBE accordingly *(vide infra*). Figure 2e displays wavelet transform (WT) for the k3-weighted EXAFS signals, where k is the photoelectron wavenumber of the Ir LIII-edge spectra. Ir/C clearly shows a maximum intensity value at around 6 Å−<sup>1</sup> , corresponding to the Ir-O coordination, which is absent for all the Ir/MoS2 electrocatalysts. The combination of XPS results, with XANES and EXAFS characterizations reveal that the formation of epitaxially grown Ir/MoS2 heterostructure allows efficient electron transfer from the MoS2 substrate to the Ir NCs. Hence, the metallic states of ultra-small Ir NCs are able to be maintained compared to synthesized Ir/C. Also, the interfacial charge transfer of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure can be modified further by proper annealing treatment.

In order to understand the lattice confinement effect of the Ir/MoS2 heterostructures on the electrocatalytic performance, their HOR activities were examined using a standard threeelectrode system with synthesized Ir/C as the control sample. The iR-corrected linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were obtained by a typical rotating disk electrode at 1600 rpm in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. As demonstrated in Figure 3a, the geometric area normalized HOR activity increases in the sequence: Ir/C << Ir/MoS2-300 < Ir/MoS2-RT < Ir/MoS2-200. The physically mixed Ir/MoS2 shows much lower HOR activity than Ir/ MoS2-RT (Figure S12, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S13, Supporting Information, the benchmark samples of Ir/C and annealed Ir/C both exhibit sluggish kinetics, possessing much higher half-wave potentials of 34 mV (vs RHE) than those of Ir/MoS2-RT (23 mV) and Ir/MoS2-200 (15 mV). The physically mixed Ir/MoS2 has a half-wave potential of 62 mV, which is even much higher than the control Ir/C samples (Table S2, Supporting Information). These results confirm that epitaxial growth combined with an annealing step, which regulates interfacial charge transfer, contributes to improving

16146840, 2023, I, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibitary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/aem.20220913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (07/01/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 3. a) Geometric area normalized HOR polarization curves for various electrocatalysts. b) HOR polarization curves of Ir/MoS $_2$ -200 sample at different rotation speeds. Inset: The Koutecky-Levich plot of Ir/MoS $_2$ -200 at an overpotential of 25 mV derived from Figure 3b. c) Calculated HOR kinetic current densities (jk) versus potential plots based on ECSA area normalized curves in Figure S14, Supporting Information. The scan rate is 5 mV s $^{-1}$ . Comparison of exchange current densities normalized to the d) ECSA and e) PGM mass loading of Ir/C, Ir/MoS $_2$ -RT, Ir/MoS $_2$ -200, and Ir/MoS $_2$ -300 catalysts in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH medium at a scan rate of 50 mV s $^{-1}$ .

HOR performance significantly. To better evaluate the intrinsic activities, the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) normalized polarization curves of various catalysts were plotted in Figure S14, Supporting Information. The peaks for hydrogen adsorption and desorption can be assigned based on literature data. [29,47] The hydrogen desorption area was integrated to calculate the ECSA, using a charge density of 218  $\mu C$  cm $^{-2}$  for the Ir-based catalysts herein. [29] Both the ECSA-specific activities of Ir/MoS $_2$ -RT and Ir/MoS $_2$ -200 samples improve greatly with respect to Ir/C and annealed Ir/C (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The ECSA of each sample is detailed in Figure S15, Supporting Information.

In Figure 3b, the current density of Ir-MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 heterostructure increases with increasing rotation speed due to improved mass transport. [47,48] A linear relationship is derived from the  $j^{-1}$  versus  $\omega^{-1/2}$  plot (Koutecky–Levich plot)[49] at an overpotential of 25 mV. The fitted slope has a value of 4.94 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> (inset of Figure 3b), which is close to the theoretical number for the two-electron transfer of HOR (4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>).[3] The kinetic currents as a function of the overpotential are obtained from the Koutecky–Levich equation, as shown in Figure 3c (normalized by ECSA). The trend in kinetic current density ( $j_k$ ) is: Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 > Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT > Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-300 >> Ir/C, indicating Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 yields the highest HOR kinetics among the epitaxially grown Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub> heterostructures.

Next, the exchange current densities,  $j_0$ , were deduced by fitting the ECSA-normalized  $j_k$  ( $j_{k \text{-}ECSA}$ ) as well as PGM (Ir)

mass-normalized  $j_k$  ( $j_{k\text{-PGM}}$ ) to the Bulter-Volmer equation, [50-51] as depicted in Figure 3d,e, respectively. The j<sub>0,ECSA</sub> of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT is 0.73 mA cm<sub>ECSA</sub><sup>-2</sup>, and Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 shows the highest current density with a value of 1.28 mA  $cm_{ECSA}^{-2}$  after annealing (Figure 3d). The  $j_{0\text{-ECSA}}$  of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 is  $\approx$ 10 times over that of Ir/C (0.13 mA  $cm_{ECSA}^{-2}$ ) and annealed Ir/C (0.11 mA  $cm_{ECSA}^{-2}$ derived from Figure S13, Supporting Information). This Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 catalyst yields the similar value to the best class of PGMbased HOR electrocatalysts such as Ir-based catalysts, [12,25,30,52] PtRu/C,<sup>[53]</sup> IrRu/C,<sup>[54]</sup> Ru/C,<sup>[55]</sup> and PtRu alloy nanowires<sup>[7]</sup> (Table S3, Supporting Information). The  $j_{0\text{-ECSA}}$  of Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-300 decreases to 0.46 mA cm<sub>ECSA</sub><sup>-2</sup> owing to the increased particle size (vide supra). Further, the  $j_{0,PGM}$  comparison exhibits again that the HOR-specific activities of epitaxially grown Ir/MoS2 catalysts including Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-RT, Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200, and Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-300 are higher than Ir/C benchmark (Figure 3e). Among them, the  $Ir/MoS_2$ -200 sample has the highest  $j_{0,PGM}$  of 182 mA  $mg_{Ir}^{-1}$ , confirming its enhanced HOR catalytic activity induced by regulation of interfacial charge transfer. To evaluate the catalytic stability of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure, chronoamperometry test at an overpotential of 50 mV in comparison with synthesized Ir/C was carried out (Figure S16a, Supporting Information). After 3.5 h operation, epitaxially grown Ir/MoS<sub>2</sub>-200 exhibits more superior catalytic durability than the benchmark of Ir/C. After this stability test, the morphology change of Ir/MoS2-200 is not obvious (Figure S16b, Supporting Information) compared to that in Figure 1a.

16146840, 2023, 1, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Although the HOR mechanism in alkaline medium has been extensively investigated, there is still a debate over whether HBE [1,3,34,51,56–53] or OH binding energy/oxophilicity [6,10,31,58–59] is the dominant descriptor for HOR activity. As an oxophilic metal, Ir metal possesses stronger interaction with the adsorbed hydroxyl species compared to Pt,[6] but too strong HBE evidenced by previous reports.[12,56–57] In this study, cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves between 0.03 and 0.6 V (vs RHE) in Ar-saturated 0.1 mol KOH are shown in Figure 3f. It can be noticed that the desorption peaks for Ir/MoS2 catalysts all shift to a more negative potential compared to that of synthesized Ir/C sample, with the shift trend of Ir/MoS2-200 catalyst being more pronounced (11 mV) than the other two Ir/MoS2 samples (Ir/MoS2-RT and Ir/MoS2-300). We conclude that the decreased HBE is attributed to the electrons transfer from the MoS2 substrate to the Ir NCs, resulting in a more metallic state of Ir. The HBE decrease of Ir/MoS2-200 catalyst likely arises from the elimination of lattice tension in Ir/MoS2-200 catalyst as demonstrated with EXAFS fitting results (Figure 2d and Table S1, Supporting Information), which further tunes the interfacial charge transfer and electronic structure of Ir NCs. As alluded to above, the critical role of HBE in determining alkaline HOR activity of Ir-based catalysts has been reported both experimentally and theoretically. For Ir/C system, a linear correlation between HBE and pH has previously been observed, indicating the HBE values contribute prominently in controlling the HOR activity.[56] On the other hand, theoretical calculations have revealed that H\* adsorption Gibbs free energy (Δ*GH*\*) can be regarded as the sole descriptor for HOR activity of Ir-MoO2 catalyst before OH\* formation potential (*UOH*\*). When the applied HOR potential is higher than *UOH*\*, OH\* formation has minor influence on its HOR performance as the formed OH\* induces relative strong H2O\* binding, making H2O\* desorption/ adsorption become the potential-determining step.[25] Thus, it is unlikely that OH binding energy would dominate the alkaline HOR activity of Ir-based catalysts.

It is generally accepted that the electronic interaction between the adsorbate valence states and the metal d states, which results in the formation of bonding and antibonding states,[14] could be considered as an important part of the interaction energy.[60] The degree of filling of the antibonding states above the Fermi level (*EF*) contributes to the changes of d-band center (*Ed*), which is a good descriptor for adsorbate-metal interaction.[10] According to this model, the epitaxially grown Ir/MoS2 catalyst that enriches electron density around Ir NCs, would improve the filling of antibonding states and move the *Ed* farther away from the *EF*, weakening the HBE of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure as evidenced by the XPS and XANES results. DFT calculations were further applied to better understand the mechanism underlying the notable HOR activity. We calculated the free energy of hydrogen adsorption on bare Ir and the Ir sites in Ir/MoS2 heterostructure, and the optimal adsorption site is optimized as shown in Figure 4a. In Figure 4b, the ∆*GH*∗ of Ir/MoS2 heterostructure is −0.27 eV, which is closer to the optimal adsorption process (i.e., ∆ → *GH*∗ 0) than that of bare Ir (−0.33 eV). In the meantime, the *Ed* of bare Ir and Ir/MoS2 relative to the *EF* are calculated to be −2.89 and −3.52 eV, respectively (Figure 4c). The *Ed* downshift of Ir/MoS2 was obtained, indicating a decreased HBE at the interface. Moreover, we postulate that the highest HOR activity of Ir/ MoS2-200 catalyst is attributed to decreased lattice tension after the annealing procedure (see Table S1, Supporting Information)

**Figure 4.** a) Structure models used for the DFT calculation. b) The calculated free energy of the hydrogen adsorption process on bare Ir and Ir/MoS2 heterostructure. c) DOS plots of the bare Ir and Ir/MoS2 heterostructure.

16146840, 2023, 1, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

compared to Ir/MoS2-RT. As we know, the position of *Ed* could be modified by surface strain effect, which is a general method to tailor the catalytic activity of metal catalysts.[61–62] The decreased tension strain after annealing induces an increase of bandwidth and a downshift of d-band center in metal, facilitating weakened binding for all intermediates in a reaction,[61] which is in agreement with the CV results (Figure 3f). We calculated the ∆*GH*∗ of the Ir/MoS2 with a tensile strain of 2%, which corresponds to the EXAFS fitting data for Ir/MoS2-RT in Table S1, Supporting Information (Figure S17, Supporting Information). The unstrained Ir/MoS2-200 reveals a decreased HBE compared to the strained Ir/MoS2-RT, confirming the Ir/MoS2-200 possesses the optimized HBE. The downshifted d-band center in Ir/MoS2-200 compared to the Ir/MoS2-RT is evident in Figure S17, Supporting Information as well. In addition, we calculated OH binding energy on the optimal adsorption site in Ir/MoS2 and bare Ir (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Ir/MoS2 possesses a OH binding energy of 0.20 eV that is very close to the binding energy on bare Ir (0.17 eV), indicating OH adsorption might not be the key factor affecting HOR activity under this circumstance. Therefore, the change in electronic structure of Ir/MoS2 catalyst induced by epitaxial growth weakens the HBE to a proper degree, contributing to boosted HOR kinetics in alkaline medium.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have successfully regulated interfacial charge transfer of Ir/MoS2 electrocatalysts by epitaxially growing ultra-small (<2 nm) Ir NCs on MoS2 support. The correlative relationship between changes in electronic structure of Ir/MoS2 and HOR catalytic performance in alkaline medium was revealed in two aspects. One is epitaxially grown Ir/MoS2 heterostructure facilitated electron transfer from the MoS2 support to the Ir NCs and greatly kept the metallic states of Ir NCs rather than highly oxidized Ir NCs in the benchmark of Ir/C sample, result in boosting the HOR activity in alkaline medium significantly. The other is the lattice tension on Ir NCs induced by epitaxial growth was removed after annealing treatment, contributing to an optimized HOR catalytical performance. The mechanism of the enhanced HOR activity of Ir/MoS2 catalyst can be rationalized by decreasing HBE to the optimal degree, as evidenced by the CV curves and DFT calculations. Overall, the concept of regulating interfacial charge transfer of supported NCs (<2 nm) heterostructures occurring during epitaxial growth provides profound insights into the rational design of electrocatalysts for HOR and beyond.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: All the chemicals were used as received without further purification. Potassium hexachloroiridate (K2IrCl6, purity 99.99%), hexaammonium heptamolybdate tetrahydrate ((NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O, purity 99.9%), and thiourea (CH4N2S, purity 99%) were purchased from Aladdin. Commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) was purchased from Sigma–Aldrich. Ethylene glycol (EG, purity >99.5%) was purchased from Tokyo Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. Potassium hydroxide (KOH, 90%) was purchased from Macklin. Nafion solution was purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Carbon black (VulcanXC-72, purity 99.5%) was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Ultrapure deionized water (purity, 18.2 MΩ cm resistivity at 25 °C) was used in all experiments.

*Synthesis of MoS*2 *Nanosheets*: MoS2 was prepared based on the previous work.[41] Typically, 1 mmol (NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O and 30 mmol thiourea were dissolved in 35 mL deionized water under ultrasonication for 10 min. Then, the mixture was transferred into a 45 mL autoclave and heated at 220°C for 18 h. When cooled to the room temperature, the final product was washed with deionized water and absolute ethanol for several times, and dried at 60 °C under vacuum overnight.

*Synthesis of Ir/MoS*2 *Heterostructure*: Ir/MoS2-RT was synthesized via a polyol reduction method. 30 mg as-prepared MoS2 was dissolved in 60 mL Ar-saturated EG solution and sonicated for 2 h to form a uniform suspension. 3 mL 2.4 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> K2IrCl6 aqueous solution was added into the suspension, and under ultrasonication for 10 min. Then, the suspension was placed into an oil bath at 120 °C for 2.5 h under continuous magnetic stirring. The obtained product was collected by centrifugation after cooling to room temperature. The sediment was washed with water and ethanol for several times and dried at 60 °C under vacuum overnight. The as-synthesized Ir/MoS2-RT sample was annealed at 200 and 300 °C under Ar gas for 0.5 h to obtain Ir/MoS2-200 and Ir/MoS2-300 catalysts, respectively.

*Synthesis of Ir/C Samples*: The preparation method of Ir/C was the same to that of Ir/MoS2-RT except using 30 mg carbon black instead of MoS2 nanosheets. The as-prepared Ir/C sample was also annealed under Ar gas for 0.5 h to obtain annealed Ir/C sample.

*Synthesis of Physically Mixed Ir/MoS*2 *Sample*: The Ir NCs were firstly prepared by employing the same procedure for preparing the Ir/MoS2-RT without adding MoS2 nanosheets. Then, the mixture was placed into an oil bath and heated at 180 °C for 2.5 h to obtain Ir NCs. The same amount of MoS2 nanosheets as used in the synthesis of Ir/MoS2-RT was added into the as-prepared Ir NCs suspension. The physically mixed Ir/MoS2 solution was saturated with Ar gas and was sonicated for 2 h. The sample was collected by centrifugation followed by washing with deionized water and ethanol for several times, and dried at 60 °C under vacuum overnight.

*Characterizations*: XRD patterns were collected using a RigakuDmax-rc X-ray diffractometer with Ni-filtered Cu K*α* (*λ* = 1.5418 Å) radiation. The morphologies of Ir/MoS2 heterostructures and Ir/C were imaged on a FEI Tecnai G2 F20 S-TWIN TEM. The dark-field STEM and EDS characterizations were performed on a FEI Titan G<sup>2</sup> 60–300. Elemental analysis results of Ir/MoS2-RT and Ir/C samples were obtained by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES, Agilent 720ES, USA). XPS spectra of catalysts were obtained with a VG Scientific ESCALab220i-XL spectrometer using Al K*α* radiation with 500 µm X-ray spot. The XAFS experiment was carried out on beamline BL14W1 at the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility. Data of Ir L3-edge XAFS were processed by the Athena and Artemis programs of the IFEFFIT package based on FEFF 6. Prior to merging, the spectra were aligned to the first and largest peak in the smoothed first derivative of the absorption spectrum, normalized and background removed. Data were processed by k3-weighting and an Rbkg value of 1.0. Merged data sets were aligned to the largest peak in the first derivative of the adsorption spectrum. Normalized µ(E) data was obtained directly from the Athena program of the IFEFFIT package. The quantitative structural parameters were obtained using a least-squares curve parameter fitting method by ARTEMIS module.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: All electrochemical data were performed with a standard three-electrode cell on an electrochemical station (Chi 760 E), with a glassy carbon electrode (GCE) as the working electrode (diameter = 5 mm), Hg/HgO as the reference electrode and graphite rod as the counter electrode. The GCE was polished with Al2O3 powder (particle size of 50 nm) and washed with water and ethanol for several times before coating thin film of catalysts. The ink solutions of Ir/MoS2 heterostructures (Ir/MoS2-RT, Ir/MoS2-200, Ir/MoS2-300) were prepared by dispersing 2 mg catalysts and 3.3 mg carbon black into a solution containing 16 µL of 5 wt% Nafion solution, 100 µL 2-propanol and 384 µL water, and sonicated for 30 min. The ink preparation of Ir/C

16146840, 2023, 1, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advenergymat.de**

and commercial Pt/C was the same as that of Ir/MoS2 heterostructures without carbon black. Then, 10 µL of the ink was dropped onto the GCE with a catalyst loading of ≈200 µg cm−<sup>2</sup> , and dried at room temperature. For LSV tests, the GCE was first cycled between −0.1 and 0.3 V versus RHE at a scan rate of 200 mV s−<sup>1</sup> for 10 cycles, followed by an LSV scan in H2-saturated KOH solution (0.1 M) at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with 95% iR correction. The stability tests were carried out on an RDE using chronoamperometry at a potential of 50 mV versus RHE. To measure the ECSA, CV curves were performed between 30 and 0.6 V versus RHE at a scanning rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in N2-saturated KOH solution (0.1 M).

*DFT Calculations*: All the spin-polarized DFT calculations on this system were conducted by Vienna ab initio simulation package.[63] The projector-augmented wave method and Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE)[64–65] functional within the generalized gradient approximation were applied to describe ionic cores and exchange-correlation effects, respectively. A cutoff energy of 500 eV was adopted and the Grimme method for DFT-D3 was used to account for van der Waals (vdW) interactions.[65] The convergence criteria for residual force and energy were set to 0.02 eV Å−<sup>1</sup> and 10−<sup>5</sup> eV, respectively. The Brillouin zone was sampled with 2 × 2 × 1 Gamma-centered special *k*-points grid for geometry optimization.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52171224). Dan-Qing Liu thanks the Office of China Postdoc Council (Grant No. YJ20200165). The authors thank the staff of beamline BL11B at the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and the staff at Photoemission End-station (BL10B) in the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (NSRL) for their support in XAFS measurements.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

electrocatalysis, epitaxial growth, hydrogen oxidation reaction, metalsupport interactions, supported nanoclusters

> Received: August 26, 2022 Revised: October 18, 2022 Published online: November 6, 2022

[1] J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255.

[2] B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020.

- [3] W. Sheng, H. A. Gasteiger, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2010**, *157*, B1529.
- [4] G. Zhao, J. Chen, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2010633.
- [5] F. Xiao, Y. C. Wang, Z. P. Wu, G. Chen, F. Yang, S. Zhu, K. Siddharth, Z. Kong, A. Lu, J. C. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006292.
- [6] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. Van Der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [7] M. E. Scofield, Y. Zhou, S. Yue, L. Wang, D. Su, X. Tong, M. B. Vukmirovic, R. R. Adzic, S. S. Wong, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 3895.
- [8] H. A. Miller, A. Lavacchi, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, F. Di Benedetto, F. D'Acapito, Y. Paska, M. Page, D. R. Dekel, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6004.
- [9] T. Wang, M. Wang, H. Yang, M. Xu, C. Zuo, K. Feng, M. Xie, J. Deng, J. Zhong, W. Zhou, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 3522.
- [10] Y. Duan, Z.-Y. Yu, L. Yang, L.-R. Zheng, C.-T. Zhang, X.-T. Yang, F.-Y. Gao, X.-L. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789.
- [11] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [12] J. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 4449.
- [13] Z.-C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 5153.
- [14] B. Hammer, J. K. Norskov, *Nature* **1995**, *376*, 238.
- [15] Q. Jia, E. Liu, L. Jiao, J. Li, S. Mukerjee, *Curr. Opin. Electrochem.* **2018**, *12*, 209.
- [16] T. Tang, L. Ding, Z. C. Yao, H. R. Pan, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107479.
- [17] H. Rong, S. Ji, J. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5884.
- [18] B. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Wang, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2202227.
- [19] Z. Lyu, X. G. Zhang, Y. Wang, K. Liu, C. Qiu, X. Liao, W. Yang, Z. Xie, S. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 16093.
- [20] X. Zhang, M. Zhang, Y. Deng, M. Xu, L. Artiglia, W. Wen, R. Gao, B. Chen, S. Yao, X. Zhang, *Nature* **2021**, *589*, 396.
- [21] M. Lao, G. Zhao, P. Li, T. Ma, Y. Jiang, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100698.
- [22] C. H. Choi, M. Kim, H. C. Kwon, S. J. Cho, S. Yun, H.-T. Kim, K. J. Mayrhofer, H. Kim, M. Choi, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10922.
- [23] Z. W. Wei, H. J. Wang, C. Zhang, K. Xu, X. L. Lu, T. B. Lu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *133*, 16758.
- [24] E. C. Tyo, S. Vajda, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2015**, *10*, 577.
- [25] M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Zheng, L. Li, J. Li, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14932.
- [26] X. Huang, Z. Zeng, S. Bao, M. Wang, X. Qi, Z. Fan, H. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 1444.
- [27] C. Zhu, A. L. Wang, W. Xiao, D. Chao, X. Zhang, N. H. Tiep, S. Chen, J. Kang, X. Wang, J. Ding, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1705516.
- [28] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.
- [29] B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, L. Xia, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400.
- [30] L. Fu, Y. Li, N. Yao, F. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7322.
- [31] G. Zhao, L. Xia, P. Cui, Y. Qian, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhao, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 4845.
- [32] X. Wang, L. Zhao, X. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, Q. Yao, J. Xie, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1596.
- [33] M. Ma, G. Li, W. Yan, Z. Wu, Z. Zheng, X. Zhang, Q. Wang, G. Du, D. Liu, Z. Xie, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103336.
- [34] S. Lu, Z. Zhuang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5156.
- [35] D. Weber, C. Dosche, M. Oezaslan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 15415.
- [36] S. M. Alia, B. S. Pivovar, Y. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 13473.

16146840, 2023, 1, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202202913 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [37] W. H. Lee, Y.-J. Ko, J. H. Kim, C. H. Choi, K. H. Chae, H. Kim, Y. J. Hwang, B. K. Min, P. Strasser, H.-S. Oh, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4271.
- [38] D. Liu, S. Lu, Y. Yue, Z. Guan, J. Fang, W. Zhu, Z. Zhang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *59*, 26.
- [39] X. Ji, P. Chen, Y. Liu, Z. Kang, H. Zhou, Z. Ji, X. Shen, X. Song, G. Zhu, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 14187.
- [40] J. Jiang, J. Liao, S. Tao, T. Najam, W. Ding, H. Wang, Z. Wei, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *333*, 135444.
- [41] J. Xie, H. Zhang, S. Li, R. Wang, X. Sun, M. Zhou, J. Zhou, X. W. Lou, Y. Xie, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 5807.
- [42] G. Zhao, P. Li, N. Cheng, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000872.
- [43] H. Li, K. Yu, X. Lei, B. Guo, H. Fu, Z. Zhu, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 22681.
- [44] W. Wei, K. Sun, Y. H. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 12398.
- [45] G. Zhao, Y. Lin, K. Rui, Q. Zhou, Y. Chen, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Nanoscale* **2018**, *10*, 19074.
- [46] Q. Wang, X. Huang, Z. L. Zhao, M. Wang, B. Xiang, J. Li, Z. Feng, H. Xu, M. Gu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 7425.
- [47] C. Wei, R. R. Rao, J. Peng, B. Huang, I. E. Stephens, M. Risch, Z. J. Xu, Y. Shao-Horn, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806296.
- [48] Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141.
- [49] N. M. Markovića, S. T. Sarraf, H. A. Gasteiger, P. N. Ross, *J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans.* **1996**, *92*, 3719.
- [50] G. Wang, J. Parrondo, C. He, Y. Li, V. Ramani, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2017**, *164*, F1307.

- [51] W. Sheng, A. P. Bivens, M. Myint, Z. Zhuang, R. V. Forest, Q. Fang, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 1719.
- [52] F. Yang, L. Fu, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 22959.
- [53] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [54] H. Wang, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 6807.
- [55] W.-J. Lee, S. Bera, H.-J. Woo, J.-W. An, J.-S. Bae, I.-K. Oh, S.-H. Kwon, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 17223.
- [56] J. Zheng, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, e1501602.
- [57] X. Tian, P. Zhao, W. Sheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808066.
- [58] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z. F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.
- [59] M. Wang, H. Yang, J. Shi, Y. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. Wang, S. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhong, T. Cheng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *133*, 5835.
- [60] A. Ruban, B. Hammer, P. Stoltze, H. L. Skriver, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem.* **1997**, *115*, 421.
- [61] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1998**, *81*, 2819.
- [62] H. Wang, S. Xu, C. Tsai, Y. Li, C. Liu, J. Zhao, Y. Liu, H. Yuan, F. Abild-Pedersen, F. B. Prinz, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *354*, 1031.
- [63] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169.
- [64] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [65] S. Grimme, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2006**, *27*, 1787.