---
source: Liu 等 - 2025 - Inert Copper Incorporation Enables the High Activity and Durability of NiW Electrocatalyst for Alkal.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 81.272s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:07:50.751190Z
---

**[www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

# **Inert Copper Incorporation Enables the High Activity and Durability of NiW Electrocatalyst for Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction**

*Guimei Liu, Yushen Liu, Xiaoyi Qiu, Bingxing Zhang, Juhee Jang, Yingdan Cui, Fei Xiao, Qinglan Zhao, Wenjun Wang, Yoonseob KIM, Wei Xing, and Minhua Shao\**

**The slow reaction kinetics of hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) on existing catalysts in alkaline hinders the commercialization of anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs). In this work, a Cu-incorporated NiW alloy (Cui -NiW) without any platinum group metal (PGM) is designed and evaluated in both liquid cells and AEMFCs. This catalyst enabled the achievement of an electrochemical surface area-normalized exchange current density of 70 µA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and robust stability, outperforming most PGM-free catalysts. Furthermore, the incorporation of Cu into other systems such as NiMo and NiV using the same method also showcased excellent HOR activity and durability. The fuel cells assembled with Cui -NiW as the anode and Pt/C or Fe-N-C as the cathode delivered peak power densities of 480 and 340 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. Experimental and theoretical studies reveal that the incorporated Cu is chemically inert but enhances the overall oxidation resistance of the catalysts. Moreover, it weakens hydrogen adsorption and promotes the adsorption of hydroxide ions, thereby enhancing the HOR activity significantly. These results may open a door for rational design of high-performance and durable PGM-free HOR catalysts.**

**1. Introduction**

With the rapid advancements in non-precious-metal oxygen reduction electrocatalysts and alkaline membranes, anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) are becoming increasingly cost-competitive.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) The sluggish kinetics of the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in the base, being two orders of magnitude slower compared to acidic conditions, pose a significant challenge for the commercialization of AEMFCs.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, the development of effective and low-cost HOR catalysts is necessary to overcome this limitation and enable the widespread adoption of AEMFCs.

Ni is widely recognized as one of the most promising platinum group metals (PGM) free catalysts for alkaline HOR. However, the intrinsic activity of Ni is insufficient for AEMFCs. This underperformance is mainly attributed to the strong hydrogen binding energy (HBE) associated with Ni.[\[3\]](#page-8-0) For this reason, considerable effort has been devoted to optimizing the HBE of Ni through different strategies, including nitridation, alloying, construction heterostructure, and so on.[\[4\]](#page-8-0) For example, the Hu group found that a weakened HBE could be obtained through Ni nitridation, which turned Ni's d-band center a down-shift

away from the Fermi level.[\[5\]](#page-8-0) Similar modifications in the d-band center have also been obtained by alloying Ni with Mo and W.[\[3a,6\]](#page-8-0) In addition to adjusting HBE, researchers have found that introducing oxophilic sites like CeO2, NiO, and V2O3 can significantly impact HOR by altering the binding strength of hydroxyl species.[\[7\]](#page-8-0) Despite ongoing debates regarding the HOR mechanism, notable advancements have been achieved in enhancing its activity.

G. Liu, Y. Liu, X. Qiu, B. Zhang, J. Jang, Y. Cui, F. Xiao, Q. Zhao, W. Wang, Y. KIM, M. Shao

Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong 999077, China E-mail: [kemshao@ust.hk](mailto:kemshao@ust.hk)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202405127>

© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Energy Materials published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/) License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202405127**

W. Xing

State Key Laboratory of Electroanalytical Chemistry Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry Chinese Academy of Sciences Changchun 130022, China

M. Shao

CIAC-HKUST Joint Laboratory for Hydrogen Energy Energy Institute

The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Clear Watery Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong 999077, China

M. Shao

Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Energy Storage Technologies

Fok Ying Tung Research Institute

The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Guangzhou 511458, China

www.advancedsciencenews.com

ADVANCED ENERGY MATERIALS

www.advenergymat.de

In contrast, few studies have focused on improving the stability of Ni. Ni-based electrocatalysts may experience failure when exposed to the atmosphere for long periods or transient periods of high overpotentials (>0.1 V vs a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)), due to the formation of Ni(OH)2/NiO outer layers. Recently, Zhuang et al. found that a carbon shell could effectively protect the Ni core from oxidation when exposed to air.[8] This approach enabled the Ni catalyst to attain 89.5% activity after 10000 cycles. However, the specific activity of Ni was inferior to other catalysts, such as Ni alloys, because the active sites were blocked by carbon shells. The three-component glassy metal Ni<sub>52</sub>Mo<sub>13</sub>Nb<sub>35</sub> in ribbon form developed by the Gao group showed robust stability even at an overpotential of 0.8 V (vs RHE). [9] However, the bulk nature of these catalysts posed practical challenges in their application. Likewise, the Ni<sub>5</sub>, WCu<sub>2</sub>, alloy on Cu foam had restricted exchange current density (14 µA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and was unsuitable for fuel cells due to its incompatible large size. [4c] In a different approach, Sheng and her colleagues leveraged the metal-support interaction to enhance stability, achieving stabilization of Ni<sub>4</sub>Mo on TiO<sub>2</sub> at 1.2 V (vs RHE).<sup>[10]</sup> Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the mass activity of this catalyst was found to be lower compared to other reported catalysts. To date, it seems that none of the PGM-free HOR catalysts have been able to provide a satisfactory balance between activity and durability.

The effectiveness of alloying in adjusting Ni's HBE has been proven by introducing high-oxophilicity foreign atoms such as W and Mo. As mentioned above, those bimetallic alloys fail to meet the requirements of the fuel cell. Incorporating a suitable third metal could serve as an alternative approach to further refining the properties of Ni. For instance, the addition of Cu, which exhibits low affinity to both H\* and OH\* species (with a preference order of W > V > Mo > Ni > Cu), may provide greater flexibility in antioxidation and balancing the interactions of H\* and OH\* for HOR. In this study, we proposed leveraging the low-affinity nature of Cu, which is not directly involved in the reaction, as a stable electronic regulator to optimize the adsorption and configuration of H\* and OH\* on the NiW alloy. This approach enhanced both the activity and stability of the system. The obtained nanostructured alloy catalyst has demonstrated exceptional performance and remarkable stability in HOR. It exhibited an electrochemical surface area-normalized exchange current density of 70 mA cm $_{\mathrm{Ni}}^{\mathrm{-2}}$  and 94.3% activity retention after 10000 potential cycles.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The synthesis of PGM-free  $\text{Cu}_i\text{-NiW}$  electrocatalyst is illustrated in **Figure 1a**. Initially,  $\text{Cu}(\text{OH})_2$  nanowires (Figure 1b) were prepared as a substrate and Cu source, which reacted sequentially with Ni and W compounds to produce a green precipitate (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Alongside the nanowires, a plethora of nanoparticles grew and formed aggregates, as observed in Figure 1c. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) reveals that the precursors retain their original  $\text{Cu}(\text{OH})_2$  structures, albeit with reduced crystallinity due to the addition of Ni and W. Subsequent high-temperature reduction yielded nanoparticles with an average size of  $\approx 12$  nm as confirmed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) (Figure 1d;

Figure \$3, Supporting Information). The high-resolution (HR) TEM image presented in Figure 1e displays well-defined interplanar spacing, corresponding to the (111) plane of Ni.[11] Other materials also show the Ni (111) plane from the TEM (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Further, the distribution of the three metals, including Ni, W, and Cu were confirmed through TEM-X-ray energy dispersive (EDS) mapping, as shown in Figure 1g-i. The coexistence and well-dispersion of these three metals suggest the formation of an alloy structure in the synthesized material. The XRD patterns in Figure 2a reveal three characteristic peaks located at  $2\theta = 44.0$ , 51.2, and 75.4 degrees, which can be indexed as the cubic Ni phase (JCPDS Card no. 04-0850). Interestingly, the diffraction peaks of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW, NiW, and Cu<sub>i</sub>-Ni differ from the pure Ni synthesized using the same method, with shifted peaks to lower positions indicative of expanded lattice constants after the introduction of Cu and W. Freshly synthesized NiW was found to be easily oxidized, resulting in the formation of a mixture of Ni, NiO, and WO3. In contrast, the absence of these metal oxides in Cu;-NiW indicates that Cu;-NiW is more stable in air than NiW, suggesting that Cu incorporation could enhance the oxidation resistance of NiW.

Furthermore, we employed the same procedures to incorporate Cu into NiMo and NiV catalysts. The structures and compositions of the prepared materials were further characterized to ensure the applicability of this synthetic method. The nanoparticle sizes of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiMo and Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiV were estimated to be  $\approx\!16$  and 26 nm, respectively, as illustrated in Figures S6 and S7 (Supporting Information). The observed lattice indices of 0.20 nm correspond to the (111) facet of Ni in both samples. The diffraction peaks correspond to the (111), (200), and (220) facets of Ni, with peaks shifted to lower angles compared to Ni. This shift indicates a successful inclusion of Cu. Overall, the facile three-step method utilized for synthesizing Cu-incorporated electrocatalysts offers significant advantages in terms of scalability and cost-effectiveness.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was utilized to reveal the surface compositions. Oxides were observed in all four samples due to the propensity of non-precious metals to oxidize in the atmosphere. The Ni 2p spectrum of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW (Figure 2b) was fitted with three component peaks at 852.8, 856.0, and 860.0 eV, which were assigned to  $\mathrm{Ni^0}$ ,  $\mathrm{Ni^{2+}}$ , and satellite. [11,12] The presence of Ni<sup>2+</sup> can be attributed to the surface Ni oxidation species. Notably, the peaks for Ni in NiW and Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW shifted to higher binding energies compared with metallic Ni, while the peak shifted to a lower position in Cu<sub>i</sub>-Ni, indicating Cu incorporation increases the electron density of Ni in Cu;-Ni, which will be balanced when W is further introduced in Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW. In the Cu 2p spectra, two peaks at 932.4 and 933.4 eV correspond to metallic Cu<sup>0</sup> and Cu<sup>2+</sup> (Figure 2c).<sup>[13]</sup> Similarly, the binding energies of Cu in Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW tend to be higher than in Cu<sub>i</sub>-Ni. The deconvolution of W 4f spectra displays 5 peaks, which are assigned to metallic W<sup>0</sup> (31.7 and 33.7 eV),  $W^{6+}$  (35.6 and 37.7 eV) and satellite (40.8 eV).<sup>[6]</sup> The binding energies of W6+ were found to be lower, indicating a lower oxidation state of W in Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW (Figure 2d). These observations suggest a charge transfer from the less-oxophilicity Cu to high-oxophilicity Ni/W (Cu $\rightarrow$ Ni $\rightarrow$ W) in Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW. Interestingly, a similar charge transfer phenomenon was also observed in the Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiV and Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiMo systems (Figures S8, S9, Supporting Information).

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Fabrication of  $Cu_i$ -NiW. a) Scheme of synthetic procedure toward  $Cu_i$ -NiW. b) TEM image of  $Cu(OH)_2$ . c) TEM image of  $Cu_i$ -NiW precursor. d)TEM image of  $Cu_i$ -NiW. e) HRTEM image  $Cu_i$ -NiW. f) High-angle-annular dark-field STEM (HAADF-STEM) image of  $Cu_i$ -NiW and g-i) corresponding EDS element mapping of Ni, Cu, and W.

The HOR activities of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW and its counterparts were evaluated in an H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. As shown in Figure 3a, the onset potential for the current generation in Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW was ≈0 V (vs RHE), indicating its capability to oxidize hydrogen in the alkaline. In contrast, freshly prepared Ni and Cu<sub>i</sub>-Ni exhibited minimal HOR current densities. In particular, Cu;-NiW achieved the highest current density of 2.2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at  $\eta = 50$  mV, surpassing Pt/C (1.68 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and NiW (0.04 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). The polarization curve of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW in an Ar atmosphere, showing nearly negligible current density, confirmed that the current was primarily generated from hydrogen oxidation (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The superior performance of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW over NiW underscores the significance of Cu incorporation in achieving enhanced HOR activity. The HOR performance of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiMo and Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiV were also assessed under the same conditions, showcasing significantly higher HOR current densities compared to their respective counterparts (NiMo and NiV) (Figures S12, S13, Supporting Information). These results confirm that the inclusion of low-affinity Cu can enhance HOR activities effectively.

HAADF

The current densities of the catalyst can be measured at different rotating speeds, with values increasing as rotation speeds due to a higher mass transportation rate (Figure 3b). The ki-

netic and diffusion-controlled current densities can be decoupled using the Koutecky-Levich equation. In Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW, a slope of 4.16 cm $^2$  mA $^{-1}$  s $^{-1/2}$  of a linear line can be obtained, which is close to the theoretical value (4.87) in Figure S14 (Supporting Information). The kinetic current can be further computed with this equation and normalized with the mass of the Ni, determined via inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) (Table S1, Supporting Information). The resulting kinetic current density for  $Cu_i$ -NiW at  $\eta = 50$  mV was calculated to be 117 mA mg<sub>Ni</sub><sup>-1</sup>, which is the highest among Ni-based HOR catalysts (Figure S15, Table S2, Supporting Information). [6,7d] Moreover, the exchange current densities for Ni-based samples were estimated from micro polarization between -5 and 5 mV (Figure S16, Supporting Information). The exchange current density of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW (2.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) was found to be 30 times higher than that of NiW (0.067 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). These exchange current densities were further normalized with the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) (Figure S17, Supporting Information). An exchange current density of 70  $\mu$ A cm $_{\mathrm{Ni}}^{-2}$  was achieved on Cu $_{\mathrm{i}}$ -NiW, which is 17 and 5 times larger than Ni and NiW, respectively (Figure 3c). Notably, the mass activity and exchange current density of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW surpasses other state-of-the-art PGM-free HOR catalysts (Figure 3d).

16146840, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202405127 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Structural analysis of Cui -NiW. a) XRD patterns of fresh samples. b) Ni 2*p* XPS spectra of Ni, Cui -Ni, and Cui -NiW. c) Cu 2*p* XPS spectra of Cui -Ni and Cui -NiW. d) W 4*f* XPS spectra of NiW and Cui -NiW.

The HOR activity was further evaluated in AEMFCs. To assess the performance, a membrane electrode assembly was constructed. The optimized AEMFC using Cui -NiW as anode and Pt/C as cathode demonstrated a peak power density of 480 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, while the maximum power density for NiW was only 75 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, as illustrated in Figure [3e.](#page-4-0) Importantly, this H2-O2 AEMFC exhibited good stability at high output levels, operating continuously for 20 h at a constant current density of 0.3 A cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S19a, Supporting Information). To attain completely non-precious metal catalysts for AEMFC, we combined a Cui -NiW anode and a Fe-N-C cathode. As shown in Figure [3f,](#page-4-0) this PGMs-free fuel cell could deliver 340 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> peak power density under H2-O2 and 233 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> under H2- CO2 free air, respectively. The performance surpasses most of the previous records achieved by similar AEMFCs (Table S3, Supporting Information). These findings highlight the potential of Cui -NiW as an efficient and cost-effective electrocatalyst for the HOR.

The CO tolerance and long-term stability of PGM-free electrocatalysts are key issues in their practical application. Pt/C suffers from rapid activity degradation due to strong adsorption for CO. As shown in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-5-0) Pt/C did lose its activity upon the CO gas introduction to the system, with its current density decaying to zero even after the CO gas was removed. In contrast, Cui -NiW sustained a decent current density even when high-concentrated CO was added to the system, and its current density gradually recovered to the initial level after the removal of CO. The result demonstrates that Cui -NiW exhibits better tolerance toward CO than Pt/C.

In order to evaluate the long-term stability influenced by Cu, an accelerated durability test (ADT) was carried out on Cui -NiW and NiW between −0.1 and 0.1 V. The exchange current density of the Cui -NiW even increased after 10000 cycles (Figure [4b\)](#page-5-0), meeting the target of 5000 cycles durability proposed by the U.S. Department of Energy for 2020. The increased exchange current density may be because a mild level of surface oxidation was introduced, which was proven to enhance the performance of the HOR by modulating the binding energy of OH\*. [\[7e\]](#page-8-0) In contrast, NiW could only maintain 66% of its current density at = 50 mV after the ADT test. Generally, Ni material will undergo electrochemical oxidation at ≈0.15 V (vs RHE), resulting in the formation of Ni(OH)2. This oxidation process leads to the occupation of active Ni sites by oxygen species.[\[14\]](#page-8-0) When the cyclic potential range extended to a higher overpotential window (between −0.1 and 0.2 V), the current density of Cui -NiW degraded by only 5.7% at = 50 mV (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0). In contrast, NiW completely lost its activity for HOR, exhibiting zero current density across all tested potentials. The results obtained highlight the potential of Cu incorporation in enhancing the antioxidation capability of Cui -NiW. Furthermore, the stabilities of related catalysts, including Cui - NiMo and Cui -NiV, were also assessed using the same protocols. Interestingly, Cui -NiMo exhibited a minimal 11% decline in current density at = 50 mV, much lower than the 30% reduction observed in NiMo (Figure S20, Supporting Information).

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. HOR performance of  $Cu_i$ -NiW. a) HOR polarization curves of Ni, NiW,  $Cu_i$ -NiW,  $Cu_i$ -NiW, and reference Pt/C in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH with a rotating speed of 1600 rpm at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. b) Polarization curves of  $Cu_i$ -NiW at different rotating speeds. c) A comparison of electrochemical mass-normalized  $(j_{k,m})$  and ECSA-normalized exchange current density  $(j_{0,ECSA})$ . d) A comparison of  $j_{k,m}$ , and  $j_{0,ECSA}$  with other state-of-art PGM-free HOR catalysts. Details are summarized in Table S2 (Supporting Information). e) Fuel-cell polarization plots with  $Cu_i$ -NiW or NiW as anode and Pt/C as cathode measured at 80 °C and 0.2 MPa backpressure on both sides under  $H_2$ - $O_2$ . f) Fuel-cell polarization plots with  $Cu_i$ -NiW as anode and Fe-N-C as cathode were measured at 80 °C and 0.2 MPa backpressure on both sides under  $H_2$ - $O_2$  and  $H_2$ - $O_2$  free air, respectively.

Similarly, the degradation in current density after the ADT test was significantly less pronounced in  $\text{Cu}_i$ -NiV (34.3%) compared to NiV (45.9%) (Figure S21, Supporting Information). These findings provide additional evidence supporting the role of Cu incorporation in enhancing the stability of these catalysts under ADT conditions.

To understand the reasons behind the improved stability, the structure and composition of the catalysts were carefully analyzed before and after the ADT tests. XRD patterns in Figure S22a (Supporting Information) show that the structure of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW remained unchanged after ADT testing, with no peaks associated with metal oxides observed. In contrast, significant NiO was detected in NiW, confirming that NiW was being oxidized during the ADT test. This oxidation contributes to the degradation of the HOR activity as the surface was blocked by oxide layers. XPS analysis indicates that the Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW only underwent mild surface oxidation, leading to an increase in Ni/W surface oxidized species (Figure S22b,c, Supporting Information). Significantly, the Cu XPS spectra closely resembled that of the fresh sample, suggesting Cu remained inert during the ADT test (Figure S22d, Supporting Information). Because the Ni 2p XPS spectra were mixed with F KLL from the Nafion binder, which caused the Ni<sup>2+</sup> concentration to be higher. In order to attain more accurate results, Ar etching was employed to remove the Nafion residue from the catalyst. The compositions of the sample after the test, conducted at a subsurface depth of ≈10 nm, were nearly identical to the initial compositions at the same depth. As seen in Figure 4d, the Cu retained its metallic state, with 100% Cu<sup>0</sup> present after the

ADT test. This proves that the inert Cu did not participate in the reaction and exhibited superior antioxidation effects within the system. In contrast, both Ni and W experienced slight oxidation during the long-term test, with a minor reduction in their metallic states, reduced by 10% and 13%, respectively (Figure 4e–g). Moreover, the morphology of the catalyst also did not change after the testing, with no additional metal oxides observed around the particles. A distinct lattice fringe of 0.202 nm confirmed that the catalyst retained its Ni<sup>0</sup> structure (Figure 4h,i). These observations validate that Cu does not actively participate in the reaction but rather promotes the antioxidation of Ni and W during the process. (Table S4, Supporting Information).

To exam the electrochemical stability of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW, a more vigorous potential (0.23 V) was subjected. After 10-min oxidation, the sample exhibited the characteristic Ni<sup>0</sup> structure with a lattice spacing of 0.202 nm and displayed the same selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern as the initial sample, as depicted in Figure S23 (Supporting Information). This further confirms the morphological stability of the catalysts under the experimental conditions. In addition to the morphological assessment, the dissolution of metals in the electrolyte was monitored using in situ ICP-MS. Figure \$24a (Supporting Information) illustrates that when exposed to the KOH electrolyte without any applied potential, W (in oxide form) exhibited significant dissolution owing to its thermodynamic instability. In contrast, Cu and Ni ions were detected but exhibited no change within the initial 200 s, suggesting that these ions likely originated from the electrolyte itself as impurities rather than from the electrode

16146849, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anm.202405127 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. HOR durability of  $Cu_i$ -NiW. a) Chronoamperometry curves of  $Cu_i$ -NiW and Pt/C in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH at 50 M KOH test results of  $Cu_i$ -NiW and NiW. The test was performed by running CV scans in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH (b) from -0.1 to 0.1 M And (c) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH CV Spectra at a subsurface depth of 10 M KOH (b) from -0.1 to 0.1 M KOH (c) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH (c) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH (c) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH (c) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH (d) from -0.1 to 0.1 M KOH at 50 M KOH (d) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH (d) from -0.1 to 0.2 M KOH (d) from -0.1 to 0.1 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KOH at 50 M KO

material. Upon applying a potential of 0.23 V, the dissolution of W decreased over time and eventually stabilized, indicating that the dissolution behavior of W was unaffected by the applied potential. Notably, the concentrations of Cu and Ni ions remained constant, indicating the absence of dissolution for these two metals. Furthermore, the electrode's stability was evaluated at different potentials ranging from 0 to 0.4 V (Figure S24b, Supporting Information). Similarly, only W dissolution was detected, and Cu and Ni demonstrated stability within the studied potential range. This is consistent with previous findings. [15] This observation indicates that the instability of NiW is attributed to both oxidation and dissolution of material.

To further investigate the origin of the high intrinsic activity of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW toward HOR, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were undertaken. In particular, the simulation models were based on the XRD results to guarantee precise structural anal-

ysis for both Cu;-NiW and NiW, which suggests that both possess crystalline structures that are similar to pure Ni. The crystal models of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW and NiW were constructed by replacing specific atoms within the Ni metal structure. The arrangement of Cu atoms was based on the orthorhombic Cu(OH)2 structure, while W was evenly distributed throughout the model (Figure \$25, Supporting Information). The number setting of different atoms was based on the molar ratio of different elements on the catalyst surface from the ICP-MS result (Table \$1, Supporting Information). After optimization, the lattice constant of Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW was measured to be 10.735 Å, which closely aligned with the experimental XRD measurement of 10.743 Å. Similarly, the simulated lattice constant for NiW was found to be 10.658 Å, while the XRD result showed 10.646 Å. The (1 1 1) facet was considered a catalytic surface. Specifically, one water layer with ice-like order was added to the models to simulate the liquid-solid interphase between

16146840, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202405127 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** Theoretical investigations of Cui -NiW. a) The optimized (1 1 1) facet structure with water layer. b) The optimized structure with intermedia in HOR. c) The Gibbs energy change diagram for HOR on Cui -NiW and NiW.

catalyst and solution during the experiment. The positioning of water molecules on the slab surface followed a nearly hexagonal arrangement, with half of the water molecules arranged in parallel and the remaining molecules oriented vertically (**Figure 5**a).

The HBE was first calculated. The sluggish kinetics of the HOR in alkaline conditions are primarily attributed to a high HBE. In Figure 5b, during the H\* adsorption step, the H\* atom resides in a hollow site, surrounded by three Ni atoms on the Cui -NiW surface. Conversely, on the NiW surface, the H\* atom is positioned on a bridge site located between two Ni atoms (Figure 5b). The free adsorption energy toward H\* on Cui -NiW was calculated to be −0.64 eV, while it was −1.16 eV for NiW. A significantly weakened HBE was obtained due to the incorporation of Cu, which is beneficial for the HOR. Despite the prevailing belief that the primary factor contributing to the enhanced HOR activity is the reduction of HBE, it is noteworthy that alterations in the OH\* binding energy (OHBE) also play a consequential role in this context. During the OH\* absorption step, both catalyst surfaces exhibit adsorption on the hollow site. On the Cui -NiW surface, the OH\* is coordinated with two Ni atoms and one W atom, while on the NiW surface, Ni atoms exclusively surround the OH\* species. As a result, the Gibbs free energy of OH\* adsorption on the Cui -NiW surface is exergonic while it is endothermic on NiW. In the case of NiW, the HOR process requires overcoming an energy barrier of 0.23 eV (Figure 5c). Such a barrier would impede the subsequent Volmer step. Therefore, it is likely that the NiW (111) surface is not the optimal reaction site for the HOR due to the substantial barrier in OH\* adsorption. It is noteworthy that Cu does not directly take part in either the H\* adsorption or the OH\* adsorption steps, which is consistent with the experimental results. However, the presence of Cu positively altered the adsorption sites and energies for the HOR intermediates.

The formation of the H2O molecule step was not shown as in previous work because the H2O molecule cannot be steadily adsorbed on the catalytic surface in this simulation, where a layer of surrounding water molecules was introduced beforehand, resulting in weak adsorption of water on the catalytic materials. Overall, the computational analysis indicates that the OH\* adsorption step is likely to be the rate-determining step of the HOR in this study. Consequently, the simulations further provide evidence that Cu does not act as active sites in the HOR reactions but plays an important role in optimizing the HBE and OHBE. This aligns with the earlier analysis regarding the unchanged state of Cu after long-term stability tests.

## **3. Conclusions**

In summary, we successfully developed highly active and durable electrocatalysts for HOR in alkaline by incorporating Cu in Ni-M catalysts (M = W, Mo, V). Acting as an effective regulator, Cu enhanced the HOR activity by weakening the adsorption of H\* and reducing the energy barrier for OH\* adsorption. Simultaneously, it improved the durability by preventing the active sites from being oxidized. The Cui -NiW exhibited impressive activity in both liquid cells and AEMFCs, with a mass activity of 117.9 mA mgNi<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at = 50 mV, surpassing the reported PGM-free catalyst records. In addition, it also showed remarkable stability during potential cycling and CO-tolerance capability. This work adds more insight into the rational design of PGM-free catalysts with an optimal balance between catalytic activity and durability for hydrogen fuel cell applications.

#### **4. Experimental Section**

*Preparation of Ni-Based Electrocatalysts*: The Cui -NiW was synthesized using a modified method reported by the Qin group.[\[4c\]](#page-8-0) To prepare the Cu(OH)2, 1 g of Cu(NO3)2·3H2O was dissolved in 100 mL of deionized (DI) water in a flask. Then, 30 mL of 0.15 m ammonia solution was added rapidly to Cu(NO3)2 solution. After allowing the solution to stabilize for 15 min, 1.0 m NaOH solution was added to the above solution dropwise until the pH value reached 8–9, resulting in a blue

www.advenergymat.de

<span id="page-7-0"></span>precipitate. The Cu(OH)<sub>2</sub> was obtained by being washed with DI water several times and then dried in a vacuum oven at 50 °C for 24 h. Subsequently,  $0.58 \text{ g Ni}(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$ ,  $0.12 \text{ g }(NH_4)_6H_2W_{12}O_{40} \cdot xH_2O$ , 0.36 g urea and0.05 g fresh Cu (OH)<sub>2</sub> were dispersed in 30 mL of DI water. The suspension was ultrasonicated for 30 min and transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave. The autoclave was then heated at 130 °C for 8 h in an oven, resulting in the green precursor. After washing and drying, the final product was then incinerated under 7% H<sub>2</sub>/Ar (99.999%, purity) in the tube furnace at 500 °C for 1 h, and denoted as Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW. Similar procedures were followed for the other catalysts, namely Ni, Cu<sub>i</sub>-Ni, and NiW, with the exception that the missing compounds were not added. The synthesis of other alloys (Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiV and Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiMo) using Cu(OH)<sub>2</sub> as a copper precursor can be achieved by following similar procedures that involve using ammonium metavanadate or ammonium molybdate as one of the metal sources. As mentioned, the introduced amount of V and Mo kept a similar molar ratio with the Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW.

Preparation of Fe-N-C: Fe- and N-codoped carbon (Fe–N–C) was prepared by following the previous work. <sup>[16]</sup> This catalyst was prepared by mixing 0.95 mm Zn(NO<sub>3</sub>) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O and 0.05 mm FeSO $_4$ ·7H $_2$ O as metal sources with 8.21 g of 2-methylimidazole as the organic linker in methanol to form Fe-doped ZIF-8. After washing and drying, Fe-doped ZIF-8 was heat-treated directly in an Ar gas (99.999%, purity) environment at 1000 °C for 1 h to obtain the final Fe-N-C catalyst.

Physical Characterization: The phase structure of catalysts was measured by the X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) equipped with a graphite monochromator and a Cu-Kα radiation source ( $\lambda=1.5406$  Å). The morphology, fine structure, and element distribution of catalysts were characterized using a transmission electron microscope (TEM, Lattice resolution = 0.19 nm, Multi-Scan CCD Camera with EDS mapping system and using 65mm² Oxford Silicon Drift Detector—X-Max with resolution better than 133 eV). Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were taken on JSM-7100F Thermal field emission electron microscope. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) equipped with a Kratos Axis Ultra DLD multi-technique was applied to observe the surface compositions. Metal contents were measured through inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) (Agilent 7900).

Electrochemical Measurement: Electrochemical measurements of the HOR were performed using a Teflon cell with a standard three-electrode set-up equipped with a CHI760e. To prepare the working electrode, 5 mg of catalysts was dispersed into a 1.25 mL solution containing DI water and isopropanol (volume ratio = 1:4) along with 10  $\mu$ L 5% Nafion solution. This suspension was ultrasonicated for 30 min, and 15 μL of ink was dispersed onto a glassy carbon electrode with a diameter of 5 mm, giving 0.3 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> catalyst loading. The carbon rod and Hg/HgO were used as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. Before cyclic voltammetry (CV) testing, the electrode was cleaned by cycling the potential from -0.3 to 0.25 V for 16 cycles in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH (99.99%, Aladdin) to remove the impurities on the catalyst surface. The HOR current was measured in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm and a sweeping rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. For reference, Pt/C's (28.2 wt%, Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K. K) loading was 10  $\mu g_{Pt} \ cm^{-2}.$  All of the potential values reported were referenced to the RHE. The polarization curves were corrected for solution resistance, which was measured using AC-impedance spectroscopy from 100 kHz to 1 Hz and a voltage perturbation of 5 mV. The HOR polarization curves were recorded with different rotating (400, 900, 1600, 2500 rpm) with a 5 mV  $s^{-1}$  scan rate.

The kinetic current densities of the HOR on catalysts were calculated using the Koutecky–Levich Equation (1):

$$\frac{1}{i} = \frac{1}{i_k} + \frac{1}{i_D} \tag{1}$$

where i is the measured current density,  $i_k$  is the kinetic current,  $i_D$  is the diffusion-limited current.

And  $i_D$  can be expressed as Equation (2).

$$i_D = i_{lim} \left( 1 - e^{-\frac{nF}{RT}\eta} \right) \tag{2}$$

 $i_{lim}$  is the limiting current, n is the number of electrons transferred, F is the Faraday constant (96485C mol $^{-1}$ ),  $\eta$  is the overpotential, R is the universal gas constant (8.314 J mol $^{-1}$  K $^{-1}$ ), T is the temperature.

 $i_{lim}$  is the limiting current, which can be obtained by Equation (3):

$$i_{lim} = 0.62nFAD^{2/3}v^{-1/6}\omega^{1/2}$$
(3)

where co is the H<sub>2</sub> solubility in the electrolyte,  $\omega$  is the rotation speed, A is the surface area of the electrode, D is the H<sub>2</sub> diffusion constant in the electrolyte, and v is the kinetic viscosity.

The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of catalysts was measured in Ar-saturated 0.1 m KOH at room temperature using the CV method. The potential window was set between -0.3 and 0.6 V (vs RHE). The OH desorption region on Ni was used to estimate the ECSA using a charge density of 514  $\mu$ C cm $_{\rm Ni}^{-2}$  for one monolayer of OH adsorption on Ni.  $^{[17]}$  The ECSA can be calculated using the following equation:

$$ECSA = \frac{Q}{mc} \tag{4}$$

where the Q is the charge of desorption of hydroxyl species, m is the mass of Ni, c is 514  $\mu$ C cm<sup>-2</sup>  $_{Ni}$ .

An accelerated durability (ADT) test was conducted on the catalyst by applying potential scans between -0.1 and 0.10/0.20~V at  $100~mV~s^{-1}$  for 10000 cycles in Ar-saturated 0.1  $\rm m$  KOH electrolytes. After the CV cycles, the polarization curve was measured in  $\rm H_2$ -saturated 0.1  $\rm m$  KOH with 1600 rpm for the working electrode and a 5  $\rm mV~s^{-1}$  scan rate.

In situ, ICP-MS experiments were conducted by subjecting the electrode to different potentials in Ar-saturated 0.1  $\,\rm M$  KOH, with continuous injection of the electrolyte into the ICP-MS to monitor the presence of dissolving metal ions from the working electrode. Initially, the working electrode was allowed to stabilize without applying any potential for 200 s, after which different potentials were applied for further analysis.

AEMFC Assembly and Tests: The Ni-based catalysts were utilized as the anode in the fuel cell tests. The anode catalyst ink was prepared by dispersing the fresh Ni-based catalysts, Vulcan carbon, and 5% Versogen dispersions (mass ratio 4:4:1) to IPA solution to form uniform ink by ultrasonication for 1 h. Subsequently, the ink was sprayed onto the 5 cm<sup>2</sup> active area alkaline membrane (PiperION Anion Exchange Membrane, 20 microns) using a hand airbrush with a loading of 4 mg<sub>Ni</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup>. The cathode ink was prepared by mixing Pt/C (47.1 wt%, Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K. K), DI water, isopropanol, and ionomer (I/C = 0.6). The resulting ink was sprayed onto the other side of the membrane with a Pt loading of  $0.4 \text{ mg cm}^{-2}$ . The loading for Fe-N-C was 1.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. Before assembling the fuel cell, the membrane electrode assembly (MEA) was treated in 1 M degassed KOH solution for 1 h (refreshing the solution every 20 min) and rinsed with DI water to remove the resident alkaline. The MEAs were then assembled with gaskets and gas diffusion layers (Sigracet, 22BB) on each side. The single fuel cell test was conducted in the Fuel Cell Technologies test station at a cell temperature of 80 °C and a backpressure of 200 kPa on both sides. The temperature of the anode humidifier was 78 and 80  $^{\circ}\text{C}$ of the cathode humidifier. The flow rate of  $H_2/O_2$  was 500 sccm.

Density Functional Theory Calculations: All density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) with the projected augmented wave (PAW) method.<sup>[18]</sup> The Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) generalized gradient approximation (GGA) exchange-correlation functional was used to describe the electron exchange-correlation interactions. The plane-wave cutoff energy was set to 500 eV for Cu<sub>i</sub>-NiW and 400 eV for Ni-W.<sup>[19]</sup> The electronic energy convergency threshold was  $10^{-5}$  eV and the one for force was 0.02 eV Å<sup>-1</sup>. Spin polarization was turned on for all DFT calculations while dipole corrections were added along the z-direction The Gaussian smearing method was used to describe partial occupancies with a smearing width of 0.20 eV, and dispersion corrections were calculated by using the DFT-D3 method of Grimme. To account for the strong on-site Coulombic interactions from localization of the Ni, Cu, and W 3d states, effective U values were applied using the DFT+U method by Dudarev et al.[20] The U-J parameters applied for Ni, W, and Cu in the Cui-NiW model are 3.8, 5.0, and 3.1 eV,

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

respectively. In the NiW model, the applied parameters are 5.5 eV (Ni) and 5.2 eV (W). The parameters were estimated by those used in previous research and adjusted to fit the lattice constants from the XRD result. The van der Waals correction was done by introducing the DFT-D3 method of Grimme with zero-damping function. The simulations were conducted on the three-layer (1 1 1) surface of both models. A 15 Å vacuum layer was set for each model to ensure the separation between slabs. A Γ-centered 3 × 3 × 1 k-point sampling mesh was used.

The Gibbs' energy change of the HOR process was calculated with Equation [\(4\)](#page-7-0) based on the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model:[\[21\]](#page-9-0)

$$\Delta G = \Delta E_{DFT} + \Delta E_{ZPE} - T\Delta S + pH \times kT \ln 10 - eU$$
 (5)

where Δ*EDFT* is the total energy of certain optimized structures with reaction intermedia from DFT simulation. Δ*EZPE* is the zero-point energy calculated from vibrational frequencies, *T* is the temperature (298.15 K), *S* is the entropy obtained from standard thermodynamics tables[\[22\]](#page-9-0) or from vibrational frequencies, *pH* is the pH value of electrolyte in reaction condition, k is the Boltzmann constant, and *U* is the applied electrode potential vs revisable hydrogen electrode (RHE). In this work, Δ*EZPE* and *S* were directly obtained from frequency calculations using VASPKIT.[\[23\]](#page-9-0)

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledged the support from the Hong Kong Research Grant Council (C6011-20GF, JLFS/P-602/24, and HKUST PDFS2021-4S12) and Guangzhou Science and Technology Bureau (2024A03J0609). The authors would like to thank HKUST Fok Ying Tung Research Institute and National Supercomputing Center in Guangzhou Nansha sub-center for providing high-performance computational resources.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Author Contributions**

G.L. and Y.L. contributed equally to this work. M.S. supervised the project. G.L. and M.S. conceived the idea and designed the experiments. G.L. performed the catalyst preparation, electrochemical measurements, and fuel cell testing. Y.L. carried out the simulations. X.Q prepared the Fe-N-C catalyst. B.Z. and J.J. conducted TEM characterization. Y.C., F.X., Q.Z., Y.K., and W.W. participated in some of the experimental work. G.L., B.Z., Y.L., X.W., and M.S. analyzed the data and wrote the manuscript.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

#### **Keywords**

alkaline membrane fuel cells, density functional theory, hydrogen oxidation reaction, nickel, stability

> Received: November 3, 2024 Revised: December 16, 2024 Published online: January 28, 2025

- [1] a) X. Y. Wu, N. J. Chen, H. A. Klok, Y. M. Lee, X. L. Hu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, 61, [https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202114892;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202114892) b) G. Q. Zhao, J. Chen, W. P. Sun, H. G. Pan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, 31, [https:](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202010633) [//doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202010633.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202010633)
- [2] a) W. E. Mustain, M. Chatenet, M. Page, Y. S. Kim, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 2805; b) H. Adabi, A. Shakouri, N. Ul Hassan, J. R. Varcoe, B. Zulevi, A. Serov, J. R. Regalbuto, W. E. Mustain, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 834.
- [3] a) Y. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, S. Qin, L. R. Zheng, Y. H. Wang, J. Liao, Q. Yang, M. R. Gao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202208040; b) X. L. Zhang, S. J. Hu, Y. H. Wang, L. Shi, Y. Yang, M. R. Gao, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 107; c) J. Park, J. H. Jang, A. Lee, S. Kim, S. Lee, S. J. Yoo, J. Lee, *Adv. Sustain. Syst.* **2022**, 6, [https://doi.org/10.1002/adsu.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adsu.202100226) [202100226.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adsu.202100226)
- [4] a) Y. Yang, X. D. Sun, G. Q. Han, X. Liu, X. Y. Zhang, Y. F. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. J. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10644; b) F. Z. Song, W. Li, J. Q. Yang, G. Q. Han, T. Yan, X. Liu, Y. Rao, P. L. Liao, Z. Cao, Y. J. Sun, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1594; c) S. Qin, Y. Duan, X. L. Zhang, L. R. Zheng, F. Y. Gao, P. P. Yang, Z. Z. Niu, R. Liu, Y. Yang, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2686; d) F. Y. Gao, M. R. Gao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2023**, *56*, 1445; e) Y. H. Wang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, Y. Yang, J. Liao, Z. Z. Niu, S. Qin, P. P. Yang, P. C. Yu, M. Sun, M. R. Gao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17485; f) Y. H. Wang, Y. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, L. Zhu, H. K. Yan, P. P. Yang, M. R. Gao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, 63, [https:](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202407613) [//doi.org/10.1002/anie.202407613.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202407613)
- [5] W. Y. Ni, A. Krammer, C. S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, A. Schuler, X. L. Hu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 7445.
- [6] Y. Duan, Z. Y. Yu, L. Yang, L. R. Zheng, C. T. Zhang, X. T. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, X. X. Yu, R. Liu, H. H. Ding, C. Gu, X. S. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, 11, [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-18585-4.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-18585-4)
- [7] a) P. Li, Y. L. Jiang, Y. C. Hu, Y. N. Men, Y. W. Liu, W. B. Cai, S. L. Chen, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 900; b) L. Li, Z. D. Wei, X. Q. Qi, M. T. Li, X. Huang, M. M. Deng, S. K. Jiang, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *13*, 10550; c) L. X. Su, J. X. Chen, F. L. Yang, P. Li, Y. M. Jin, W. Luo, S. L. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 12051; d) Y. Duan, X. L. Zhang, F. Y. Gao, Y. Kong, Y. Duan, X. T. Yang, X. X. Yu, Y. R. Wang, S. Qin, Z. Chen, R. Wu, P. P. Yang, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, T. B. Lu, Z. Y. Yu, S. H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, 62, [https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202217275;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202217275) e) C. Sun, P. C. Zhao, Y. Q. Yang, Z. Li, W. C. Sheng, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *13*, 1630; f) M. V. Pagliaro, M. Bellini, F. Bartoli, J. Filippi, A. Marchionni, C. Castello, W. Oberhauser, L. Poggini, B. Cortigiani, L. Capozzoli, A. Lavacchi, H. A. Miller, F. Vizza, *Inorg. Chim. Acta* **2022**, *543*, 121161.
- [8] Y. F. Gao, Y. Yang, R. Schimmenti, E. Murray, H. Q. Peng, Y. M. Wang, C. X. Ge, W. Y. Jiang, G. W. Wang, F. J. DiSalvo, D. A. Muller, M. Mavrikakis, L. Xiao, H. D. Abruna, L. Zhuang, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2022**, 119, [https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2119883119.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2119883119)
- [9] F. Y. Gao, S. N. Liu, J. C. Ge, X. L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y. R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. X. Dong, X. X. Yu, R. C. Bao, P. P. Yang, Z. Z. Niu, Z. G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M. R. Gao, Y. S. Yan, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 993.
- [10] X. Tian, R. Ren, F. Wei, J. Pei, Z. Zhuang, L. Zhuang, W. Sheng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 76.
- [11] Y. B. Qi, Y. Zhang, L. Yang, Y. H. Zhao, Y. H. Zhu, H. L. Jiang, C. Z. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, 13, [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-32443-5) [32443-5.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-32443-5)
- [12] L. L. Fan, P. F. Liu, X. C. Yan, L. Gu, Z. Z. Yang, H. G. Yang, S. L. Qiu, X. D. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, 7, [https://doi.org/10.1038/](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms10667) [ncomms10667.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms10667)
- [13] X. L. Zhou, J. Q. Shan, L. Chen, B. Y. Xia, T. Ling, J. J. Duan, Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2079.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

- [14] a) M. Ledendecker, J. S. Mondschein, O. Kasian, S. Geiger, D. Gohl, M. Schalenbach, A. Zeradjanin, S. Cherevko, R. E. Schaak, K. Mayrhofer, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 9767; b) A. G. Oshchepkov, G. Braesch, A. Bonnefont, E. R. Savinova, M. Chatenet, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7043.
- [15] a) E. S. Davydova, F. D. Speck, M. T. Y. Paul, D. R. Dekel, S. Cherevko, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6837; b) M. Schalenbach, F. D. Speck, M. Ledendecker, O. Kasian, D. Goehl, A. M. Mingers, B. Breitbach, H. Springer, S. Cherevko, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *259*, 1154.
- [16] F. Xiao, Q. Wang, G. L. Xu, X. P. Qin, I. H. Hwang, C. J. Sun, M. Liu, W. Hua, H. W. Wu, S. Q. Zhu, J. C. Li, J. G. Wang, Y. M. Zhu, D. J. Wu, Z. D. Wei, M. Gu, K. Amine, M. H. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 503.
- [17] a) J. Wang, X. Dong, J. Liu, W. Z. Li, L. T. Roling, J. P. Xiao, L. H. Jiang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 7422; b) Z. B. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. S. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, 7, [https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms10141.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms10141)

- [18] a) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169; b) P. E. Blöchl, *Phys. Rev. B* **1994**, *50*, 17953.
- [19] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [20] a) N. Doudin, S. Pomp, M. Blatnik, R. Resel, M. Vorokhta, J. Goniakowski, C. Noguera, F. P. Netzer, S. Surnev, *Surf. Sci.* **2017**, *659*, 20; b) P.-F. Guo, Y. Yang, W.-J. Wang, B. Zhu, W.-T. Wang, Z.-Y. Wang, J.-L. Wang, K. Wang, Z.-H. He, Z.-T. Liu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *426*, 130768.
- [21] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.
- [22] W. M. Haynes, in *CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics: A Ready-Reference Book of Chemical and Physical Data*, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, USA **2017**.
- [23] V. Wang, N. Xu, J.-C. Liu, G. Tang, W.-T. Geng, *Comput. Phys. Commun.* **2021**, *267*, 108033.