---
source: Luo 等 - 2023 - Amorphous MoO x  with High Oxophilicity Interfaced with PtMo Alloy Nanoparticles B.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 77.056s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:10:31.407798Z
---

# **Amorphous MoO***<sup>x</sup>* **with High Oxophilicity Interfaced with PtMo Alloy Nanoparticles Boosts Anti-CO Hydrogen Electrocatalysis**

*Heng Luo, Kai Wang, Fangxu Lin, Fan Lv, Jinhui Zhou, Weiyu Zhang, Dawei Wang, Wenshu Zhang, Qinghua Zhang, Lin Gu, Mingchuan Luo, and Shaojun Guo\**

**Advancing electrocatalysts for alkaline hydrogen oxidation/evolution reaction (HOR/HER) is essential for anion exchange membrane-based devices. The state-of-the-art Pt-based electrocatalysts for alkaline HOR suffer from low intrinsic activities and severe CO poisoning due to the challenge of simultaneously optimizing surface adsorption toward different adsorbates. Herein, this challenge is overcome by tuning an atomic MoO***<sup>x</sup>* **layer with high oxophilicity onto PtMo nanoparticles (NPs) with optimized Had, OHad, and COad adsorption for boosting anti-CO-poisoning hydrogen-cycle electrocatalysis in alkaline media. For alkaline HOR, this catalyst exhibits high kinetics and an exchange current density of 3.19 mA μgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 50 mV versus reversible hydrogen electrode and 0.83 mA cmPt<sup>−</sup>2, 10.3- and 3.8-fold higher than those of commercial Pt/C, respectively. For alkaline HER, it achieves an unprecedented overpotential of 37 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Experimental and theoretical studies show that the orchestrated electronic and oxophilic regulation of the PtMo/MoO***<sup>x</sup>* **interface NPs simultaneously optimizes Had and OHad adsorption for boosting alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis, whereas reactive oxygen from the amorphous MoO***<sup>x</sup>* **atomic layer lowers the CO oxidation reaction barrier, leading to superior anti-poisoning ability even at 100 ppm CO.**

H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, M. Luo, S. Guo

Key Laboratory of Theory and Technology of Advanced Batteries Materials School of Materials Science and Engineering

Peking University

Beijing 100871, P. R. China E-mail: guosj@pku.edu.cn

H. Luo, F. Lin, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, S. Guo

The Beijing Innovation Center for Engineering Science and Advanced

Technology Peking University

Beijing 100871, P. R. China

Q. Zhang, L. Gu

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics Institute of Physics

Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing 100190, P. R. China

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202211854**

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202211854

## **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen cycle electrocatalysis, including hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in fuel cells and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in electrolyzers, is of great significance to economically sustainable hydrogen economy.[1] A remaining challenge to commercialize alkaline exchange membranebased fuel cells (AEMFCs) is the slower kinetics of Pt toward HOR in alkaline (about two to three orders of magnitude) than that in acid, necessitating a much higher Pt loading in AEMFCs.[2] Balancing absorptions between hydrogen (Had) and hydroxyl, that is, OHad is deemed as a key to boosting HOR.[3] One of the representative strategies is to alloy Pt with transition metals to tune the d-band center for optimizing the Had binding energy (HBE).[4] Another engineering strategy is tuning the surface oxophilicity of catalysts by introducing foreign atoms with high oxophilicity to accelerate the Volmer step in alkaline via the so-called bifunctional mechanism in which hydroxyl adsorption energy (OHBE) describes catalytic reactivity.[5] Modulating the

crystallinity and hybrid nanostructures of catalysts have recently been developed as valid methods for tuning HBE or OHBE to improve intrinsic activity.[6] Despite extensive research on regulating HBE and OHBE individually, it remains challenging to optimize both Had and OHad to accelerate the rate-determining step, that is, Volmer step.

Anti-CO-poisoning property is also critical to H2-involved electrocatalysis since feeding H2 mainly comes from reforming gas, and inevitably contains CO impurities. Most currently used Pt catalysts exhibit strong CO adsorption and poor resistance to CO poisoning.[7] Specifically, Pt catalyst applied in AEMFCs is easily poisoned by even 10 ppm CO existing in H2, leading to tremendous degradation of device performances.[8] Despite considerable advance in electrocatalysts, the underlying mechanisms of enhanced HOR/HER activities and anti-CO-poisoning properties remain equivocal.

Herein, we report a new class of amorphous MoO*<sup>x</sup>* atomic layers with high oxophilicity interfaced with bimetallic PtMo alloy nanoparticles (NPs) (PtMo/MoO*x*), possessing the optimized www.advancedsciencenews.com

ADVANCED MATERIALS

www.advmat.de

521 4095, 2023, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202211854 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions of the Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles

 $\rm H_{ad}$ ,  $\rm OH_{ad}$ , and  $\rm CO_{ad}$  adsorptions, for efficient anti-CO-poisoning hydrogen cycle electrocatalysis in alkaline, which achieves a HOR kinetic current  $(j_k)$  and exchange current density  $(j_0)$  of up to 3.19 mA  $\rm \mu g_{Pt}^{-1}$  (at 50 mV vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) and 0.83 mA cm $_{Pt}^{-2}$ , respectively, about 10.3 and 3.8 times higher than those of commercial Pt/C. The PtMo/MoO $_x$  also shows a low overpotential of 37 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  for HER. Experimental characterizations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations jointly demonstrate that a weakened HBE and an enhanced oxophilicity/OHBE on PtMo/MoO $_x$  enable suitable balance between  $\rm H_{ad}$  and  $\rm OH_{ad}$  for improved HOR/HER. We also show the amorphous MoO $_x$  atomic layer facilitates CO oxidation at low potential during HOR by weakening the adsorption and oxidation binding energy of CO intermediates, leading to significant anti-CO-poisoning performance.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub> NPs with adjustable Pt/Mo atomic ratios were prepared via a two-step wet-chemical synthesis, denoted as PtMo NPs and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1,2,3,4 (with different Pt/Mo ratio), respectively (Figure 1a). Bare PtMo NPs have uniform size distribution centered at 4.58 nm from transmission electron microscopy (TEM) (Figure 1b and Figure S1a-c, Supporting Information). X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of PtMo NPs verifies its face-centered-cubic (fcc) structure (Figure S1d, Supporting Information). High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) reveals the atomicscale structure of one individual PtMo NP and a lattice spacing of 0.22 nm, in accordance with the (111) interplanar distance of fcc-Pt (Figure S2a, Supporting Information). Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping images of NPs reveal that Pt and Mo atoms distribute homogeneously, indicating the formation of solid-solution PtMo alloy (Figure S2b, Supporting

The PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 NPs (Figure 1c and Figure S3, Supporting Information) were made through subsequent Mo atom diffusion as well as the formation of amorphous MoO<sub>x</sub> layer. The XRD pattern of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 NPs (Figure 1d) reveals that they maintain the fcc structure (JCPDS# 04-0802). However, no correlative peak of Mo-based structure can be observed, suggesting that MoO, exists in amorphous state. The HAADF-STEM image further demonstrates that the inner part of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 NPs possesses excellent crystallinity while obvious amorphous atomic layers (red dotted part of Figure 1e and Figure S4, Supporting Information) can be observed on the outermost side. The bright atoms of one individual PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 NP in dark-field mode is Pt since Pt possesses larger molecular weight than Mo. As one can observe, dark Mo atoms are enriched at the edge of NPs while the central regions are composed of light Pt atoms and dark Mo atoms. The line scan and STEM-EDS mapping (Figure 1f-i and Figure S5, Supporting Information) also indicate that Mo is more enriched than Pt in the periphery of NPs. Furthermore, the metallic composition of Pt/Mo in PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 is determined to be 85/15 by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), in well agreement with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) result (Table S1, Supporting Information). The atomic-resolved lattice spacing (Figure 1j) is measured to be 0.196 nm, attributed to the (100) facet of fcc PtMo, being consistent with the results of the corresponding fast Fourier transform pattern (Figure S6, Supporting Information) and XRD.

Our method is quite general for making PtMo/MoO $_x$  NPs with different composition (within a range of 7–52% for Mo composition, detected by ICP-AES and XPS) (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The morphology and structure of PtMo/MoO $_x$ -2,3,4 NPs remains (Figures S9–S11, Supporting Information). However, some weak peaks (marked by green dotted box and blue dot) in the XRD patterns, ascribed to Mo $_9$ O $_{26}$  (JCPDS# 73-1536), can be observed when the proportion of Mo increases up to  $\approx$ 35% (Figure S12, Supporting Information). This indicates that MoO $_x$  gradually transforms from amorphous state to high crystallinity as the reaction time increases.

The surface chemistries of PtMo and PtMo/MoO.. NPs with different Pt/Mo atomic proportion were probed by XPS. The XPS survey spectra show the co-existence of Pt, Mo, and O elements in the as-prepared PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub> (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The binding energy of Pt 4f at PtMo NPs and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 NPs displays a negative shift compared with that of Pt/C (Figure S14, Supporting Information), attributed to higher electronegativity of Pt than that of Mo.<sup>[9]</sup> A generally decreased binding energy of Pt<sup>0</sup> 4f<sub>7/2</sub> can be observed as Mo content of PtMo/MoOx NPs rises while an opposite tendency appears in Mo 3d<sub>5/2</sub> spectra, indicating that electrons transfer from Mo to Pt in PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub> catalysts. Besides, charge density difference studies of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 also verify that most Pt atoms with obvious electrophilic behavior gain electrons, while Mo atoms with weaker electronegativity lose electrons (Figure S15, Supporting Information). In addition, the O 1s spectrum can be deconvoluted into lattice oxygen (Olattice, 530 eV), hydroxyl oxygen (Ohvdroxyl, 531.2 eV), and adsorbed H2O (Osurface, 532.6 eV) peaks, respectively.<sup>[10]</sup> The O<sub>lattice</sub> peak from PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 exhibits higher intensity than that from PtMo NPs, suggesting that more active O sites were introduced, caused by the formation of MoO<sub>x</sub> (Figure S16, Supporting Information). The presence of MoO<sub>x</sub> in PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 was further verified via electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) analysis (Figure 2a). The EPR patterns of both catalysts show clear signals at a g factor of 2.003, referred to unpaired electrons trapped on oxygen vacancies.[11] The peak intensity of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 is stronger than that of PtMo NPs, revealing more abundant O vacancies in PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 due to the existence of MoO<sub>x</sub>.

The surface valence band (VB) photoemission spectra (Figure 2b) show the gradually declined d-band center with the order of Pt/C (-4.17 eV) > PtMo NPs (-4.35 eV) > PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 (-4.42 eV). The downshift of Pt d-band center renders weaker hydrogen adsorption energy on the surface of the electrocatalysts. [12] Furthermore, the Pt L3-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) results of PtMo NPs and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 reveal that Pt in both catalysts exists in a metallic state (Pt<sup>0</sup>) (Figure 2c). The Fourier-transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra of Pt L3-edge (Figure 2d) show that the average Pt-Pt bond length become shorter by following the order:  $PtMo/MoO_x$ -1 (2.756 Å) < PtMoNPs (2.757 Å) < Pt foil (2.764 Å), further clarified by the corresponding wavelet transform plots (Figure 2e). The slight compression of the Pt-Pt bond derives from the atomic radius difference of Mo and Pt, further confirming their successful alloying. However, the Pt-Pt bond length of PtMo NPs and

15214095, 2023, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202211854 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1.** Synthesis and structural characterizations of PtMo/MoO*<sup>x</sup>* NPs. a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of PtMo and PtMo/MoO*<sup>x</sup>* NPs. b) TEM image of PtMo NPs. c) HAADF-STEM image and d) XRD pattern of PtMo/MoO*x*-1 NPs. e) Atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM image and f) EDS line-scanning profile of a single PtMo/MoO*x*-1 NP. g–i) EDS mapping images and j) HAADF-STEM image of PtMo/MoO*x*-1 NPs.

PtMo/MoO*x*-1 shows no obvious change, indicating that MoO*<sup>x</sup>* only exists on the surface of NPs. The correlative shell fitting results are summarized in Figure S17 and Table S2, Supporting Information. The coordination number of Pt–Pt bond of PtMo NPs and PtMo/MoO*x*-1 is fitted to be 6.8 and 6.43, respectively, indicating Pt exists in a lower coordination environment. Besides, the fitted Debye–Waller factor (2) of PtMo/MoO*x*-1 (≈5.4) is higher than those of Pt foil (≈3.8) and PtMo NPs (≈5.0), further confirming its more disorder lattice due to amorphous MoO*<sup>x</sup>* structure with low-crystallinity.

The electrocatalytic properties of as-made PtMo NPs and PtMo/MoO*<sup>x</sup>* NPs loaded onto carbon support (Ketjen Black-300J) (denoted as PtMo NPs/C and PtMo/MoO*x*-1,2,3,4/C) were measured in 0.1 m HClO4 solution (Figure S18, Supporting Information). A pair of redox peaks around 0.4–0.5 V vs RHE for the PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C catalyst is observed, attributed to the valence change of oxidized Mo on the catalyst surface, which confirms the existence of MoO*<sup>x</sup>* on the surface of PtMo alloy. The number of transferred electrons (*n*) involved in this reaction, calculated through the difference between the two peak potentials (Δ*E*P)

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2023, 29. Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atana.2022.11854 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 2. Characterization of the electronic state and coordination environment. a) The EPR signals and b) surface valence band photoemission spectra of Pt/C, PtMo NPs, and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 NPs. c) The Pt-L<sub>3</sub> edge XANES spectra, d) FT-EXAFS spectra, and e) wavelet transform plots of Pt foil, PtMo NPs, and PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1 NPs.

with the formula  $n=60/\Delta E_{\rm P}$ , is 2, confirming a two-electron transfer during redox process of surface Mo.<sup>[13]</sup> The electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) are calculated to be 49.83 and 63.86 m² g⁻¹ for PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C and Pt/C, respectively, by integrating hydrogen underpotential deposition (H<sub>upd</sub>) areas. The H<sub>upd</sub> in alkaline in **Figure 3**a and Figure S20, Supporting Information, shows the potentials of H desorption/adsorption peaks associated with HBE follow an order of Pt/C > PtMo NPs/C > PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C. The weakened alkaline HBE of our catalyst originates from the decline of d-band center, caused by ligand effect between Pt and Mo atom, being consistent with the XPS-VB results.

The HOR/HER electrocatalytic properties of PtMo NPs/C, PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>/C, and benchmarked Pt/C were evaluated on a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in 0.1 M H2-saturated KOH solution. The HOR performances of PtMo/MoOx/C with different Pt/Mo atomic ratios were investigated (Figure 3b and Figure S21, Supporting Information). Among different samples, PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C exhibits the highest limiting current density (2.93 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>geo</sub>) throughout the potential range, and the highest kinetic current density ( $j^{k,m}$ ) of 3.19 mA  $\mu g_{Pt}^{-1}$  at 50 mV vs RHE, exceeding PtMo NPs/C (0.805 mA  $\mu g_{\mathrm{Pt}}^{-1})$  and commercial Pt/C (0.31 mA  $\mu g_{\text{Pt}}^{-1})$  by 3.96 and 10.3 times, respectively (Figure 3c). Besides, the ECSA-normalized exchange current density ( $j^{0,s}$ ) from PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C is 0.83 mA cm<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-2</sup>, much higher than those of PtMo NPs/C (0.63 mA cm<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (0.22 mA  ${\rm cm_{Pt}}^{-2}$ ), and surpassing most state-of-the-art Ptbased and other precious metal-based electrocatalysts in alkaline (Table S4, Supporting Information). Furthermore, we find that the exchange current density normalized by Pt loading (j<sup>0,m</sup>) of PtMo/MoO $_x$  with different Pt/Mo atomic proportion emerges a volcanic relationship modulated by HBE (Figure 3d). Figure S22, Supporting Information, represents the Tafel plots of kinetic current density fitted with Butler–Volmer equation for PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1/C and Pt/C. The calculated  $j_k$  for PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1/C is 4.35 mA cm $_{\rm Pt}^{-2}$  at an overpotential of 50 mV, much higher than that of Pt/C (0.63 mA cm $_{\rm Pt}^{-2}$ ). In addition,  $j_k$  of PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1/C in the micro-polarization linear region also enjoys higher value (Figure S23, Supporting Information). These results suggest that PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1/C has the greatly accelerated HOR kinetics. In addition, the Koutecky–Levich plots of PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1/C and Pt/C reveal that their slopes are calculated as 4.40 and 4.33 cm $^2$  mA $^{-1}$  s $^{-1/2}$ , respectively, close to the theoretical value of two-electron HOR[ $^{14}$ ] (Figure S24, Supporting Information).

The adsorbed hydroxyl (OH\*) binding energy serves as another key descriptor for tuning the catalytic activity.[15] The OH\* behavior can be monitored by CO stripping technique because the OH\* groups trigger CO oxidation.[16] Herein, the CO stripping experiments were conducted to probe the OH\* binding behaviors of various catalysts (Figure 3e). The peak position of CO stripping increases in the order of Pt/C > PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C > PtMo NPs/C. The potential of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C shifts negatively by 47 mV relative to that of commercial Pt/C, indicative of a stronger OH\* adsorption on the PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C in alkaline. Enhanced OH\* adsorption is expected to boost the desorption of H\*, thus lowering the energy barrier of the Volmer step (rate-determining step) in HOR on Pt surfaces (Figure S25, Supporting Information). However, an excessively strong OH\* can be detrimental to HOR electrocatalysis (likely the case of PtMo NPs/C) due to: 1) a lower of pre-exponential factor in the rate

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2023, 29. Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atana.2022.11854 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 3. Electrochemical performance and theoretical investigations. a) CVs of Pt/C, PtMo NPs/C, and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. b) HOR polarization curves of Pt/C, PtMo NPs/C, and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH. c) The exchange current densities ( $j^{(0,s)}$ ) calculated by Butler–Volmer equation normalized by ESCAs and the kinetic current densities ( $j^{(k,m)}$ ) normalized by Pt mass of different catalysts. d) The exchange current densities corrected by Pt mass ( $j^{(0,m)}$ ) of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>/C with different Mo element ratios. e) CO stripping voltammetry curves of Pt/C, PtMo NPs/C, and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C recorded in 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. f) Reaction pathway for HOR on the PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1. White spheres: H atoms, green spheres: Mo atoms, gray spheres: Pt atoms, red spheres: O atoms. g) Calculated free energy profile from the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model for HOR at different sites of Pt/C, PtMo NPs/C and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C. h) Relative chronoamperometry response of Pt/C and PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH at 0.1 V vs RHE on RDE.

expression in which unoccupied sites are considered as the catalytic center and thus the reactant;<sup>[17]</sup> 2) an increased free energy of Volmer step induced by the overly binding OH\*. The catalytic efficiency of the Volmer step depends largely on the adsorption ability of hydroxyl species. The above results indicate that PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C possesses moderate oxophilicity for balancing the HBE and OHBE of catalysts in alkaline to achieve superb HOR performance.

DFT calculations were employed to investigate the origin of greatly improved HOR activity of  $PtMo/MoO_x$ -1/C. The calculated path of HOR was shown in Figure 3f. H atom is adsorbed on the surface, accompanied by OH species to form co-adsorption, and then H\* and OH\* combine to form H<sub>2</sub>O molecules. The hydrogen adsorption free energy ( $\Delta G_{H^*}$ ) on Pt (111) surface, PtMo, and amorphous  $MoO_x$  interfaced with PtMo was calculated (Figures S26 and S27, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 3g, PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 possesses a more thermoneutral

 $\Delta G_{\text{H}^*}$  value of -0.03 eV, much closer to equilibrium than those of PtMo NPs (-0.2 eV) and Pt (-0.31 eV). The substantially weakened HBE of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 greatly speeds up the Volmer step of HOR in basic media. Meanwhile, the hydroxyl adsorption free energy ( $\Delta G_{OH^*}$ ) calculated for these three catalysts indicates that the oxophilicity of Pt can indeed be promoted via introducing Mo atoms. The  $\Delta G_{OH^*}$  of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 (-0.47 eV) is much higher than that of Pt/C (0.58 eV). However, too excessive  $\Delta G_{\rm OH^*}$ of PtMo NPs (-0.72 eV) makes the formation of H<sub>2</sub>O be difficult. The interfaced MoO<sub>x</sub> is greatly instrumental in alleviating over-strong  $\Delta G_{\mathrm{OH}^*}$  to accelerate the kinetics of HOR. Transition state calculation suggests the energy barrier for the formation of H<sub>2</sub>O on the surfaces of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 is 0.46 eV, much lower than those of Pt/C (0.75 eV) and PtMo NPs (0.93 eV), respectively. Overall, the outstanding HOR performance of amorphous MoO, with high oxophilicity interfaced with PtMo alloy can be attributed to well-balanced  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  and  $\Delta G_{OH^*}$ .

15214095, 2023, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202211854 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** The anti-CO-poisoning HOR property of PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C. a) CO stripping voltammetry curves of Pt/C, PtMo NPs/C, and PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C recorded in 0.1 m HClO4 at a scan rate of 20 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. b) Relative chronoamperometry response of Pt/C, PtMo NPs/C, and PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C in 100 ppm CO/H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at 0.1 V (vs RHE) operated on RDE. c) HOR polarization curves of PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C in pure H2 and 100 ppm CO/H2 saturated 0.1 m KOH. d) XPS spectra of Mo 3d on PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C before and after anti-CO-toxicity HOR test.

The stability of the catalyst was further evaluated by chronoamperometry at 0.1 V vs RHE (Figure 3h). During the 8 h continuous operation, no significant performance attenuation of the PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C was observed. The high stability of PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C for HOR has been further proved by the fact that the PtMo/MoO*x*/C catalysts show no shift on HOR polarization curves before and after 2000 cycles in the potential range of 0–0.3 V vs RHE (Figure S28, Supporting Information).

We further explored the anti-CO-poisoning properties of various catalysts. The onset potential of CO stripping for PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C is 45 mV lower than that of Pt/C in 0.1 m HClO4 (**Figure 4**a), revealing its enhanced anti-CO-poisoning capacity.[18] We also find that the redox peak of MoO*<sup>x</sup>* disappears (inset of Figure 4a) due to electron transfer from CO to MoO*x*, which promotes CO oxidation and inhibits the redox change of Mo. These indicate that PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C possesses extraordinary resistance to CO poisoning during HOR. In order to gain intuitive anti-CO-performance, the HOR stability against CO toxicity was evaluated by the chronoamperometry at 0.1 V vs RHE in the presence of 100 ppm CO. The PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C maintains 88.5% of its original activity after continuous operation for 2500 s in 0.1 m H2-saturated KOH with 100 ppm CO while those of PtMo NPs/C and Pt/C decrease to 66.7% and 40.8% under the same condition (Figure 4b). In addition, HOR polarization curve result of PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C in the presence of 100 ppm CO reveals that there is negligible decrease (*<*4.6%) in the limiting current density (Figure 4c), whereas XPS results of PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C before and after stability test show that Mo 3d and Pt 4f spectroscopy can be kept after anti-CO-toxicity HOR test (Figure 4d and Figure S29, Supporting Information), indicating that PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C has excellent anti-CO stability for HOR.

To further elaborate the anti-CO-poisoning mechanism of PtMo/MoO*x*, the adsorption energy of CO\* on different catalysts was calculated (**Figure 5**a). The CO\* adsorption energy follows the order of PtMo/MoO*x*-1 NPs (−1.72 eV) *<* PtMo NPs (−1.95 eV) *<* Pt (−2.14 eV). We employ the limiting ab initio molecular dynamics simulation to evaluate the energy barrier of CO oxidation. For the PtMo/MoO*x*-1 catalyst, amorphous MoO*<sup>x</sup>* tends to provide additional oxygen atoms for oxidizing CO to CO2, accompanied by subsequent desorption of CO2 from the surface. As shown in Figure 5b, the energy barrier for CO\* oxidation on PtMo/MoO*x*-1 surface is as low as 0.688 eV. However, for Pt and PtMo NPs, the surface requires to adsorb extra OH\* to help oxidize CO since there is no fontal O atom supplied. The energy barriers for oxidizing CO\* to COOH\* on pure Pt and PtMo NPs are calculated to be 1.76 and 1.50 eV, respectively, much higher than those of PtMo/MoO*x*-1 (Figure 5c), demonstrating great CO toxicity resistance of PtMo/MoO*x*-1.

To verify this trend, charge density difference (Δ) and projected crystal orbital Hamilton population (pCOHP) were introduced to elucidate the interaction between metal active sites and CO\* (Figure 5d,e). We computed the integrated COHP (ICOHP) of Mo–O bond in amorphous MoO*<sup>x</sup>* to reveal the bond strength quantitatively, where the more negative ICOHP value (−10.36) shows stronger bonding of Mo–O (Figure 5f). Accordingly, O atoms separated from amorphous MoO*<sup>x</sup>* need to overcome an

www.advmat.de

1921/495, 2023, 29. Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atanta.2022.11854 University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2056]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the policy of the

Figure 5. Theoretical calculations of anti-CO-poisoning mechanism. a) CO adsorption energy on PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1, PtMo NPs, and Pt surface. b) Energy barrier of CO oxidation on PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 using slow-growth approach. c) CO oxidation energy on PtMo NPs and Pt using CI-NEB method. d,e) Charge density difference ( $\Delta \rho$ ) of O of MoO<sub>x</sub>. f) pCOHP of O of MoO<sub>x</sub>, g,h) Charge density difference ( $\Delta \rho$ ) of CO adsorbed on MoO<sub>x</sub>. i) pCOHP of CO adsorbed on MoO<sub>x</sub>. Tolors in the figure: purple sphere is Mo atom, red sphere is O atom, brown sphere is C atom, gray sphere is Pt atom.

energy barrier of 0.688 eV to form  $CO_2$  (Figure S30, Supporting Information). The  $\Delta \rho$  and pCOHP for Pt–CO\* bond were further investigated on amorphous  $MoO_x$  interfaced with PtMo alloy model (Figure 5g,h). A relatively weaker ICOHP value of -5.2 is observed, indicating more-easily broken Pt–C bond (Figure 5i). In alkaline environment, we find that OH\* can also act as an Osupplement to  $MoO_x$ , with an energy barrier of 0.92 eV (Figure S31a, Supporting Information). XPS O1s spectrum further reveals that the proportion of metal–O (M–O) bond decreases after anti-CO-poisoning HOR test, accompanied by enhanced intensity of M–OH bond (Figure S31b, Supporting Information), indicating that more O supplementation from OH\* happens (Table S3, Supporting Information).

We further evaluated the anti-CO stability on the catalyst modified with gas diffusion layer (GDL) to simulate the authentic fuel cell circumstances, in which the catalyst will be exposed under more extreme conditions, such as hydrogen starvation, greater flow of CO and unstable mass transport. We find that the relative current density of PtMo/MoO $_x$ -1/C modified with GDL decreases by only 13% at 0.1 V vs RHE in the presence of 100 mL min<sup>-1</sup> H $_2$  with 50 mL min<sup>-1</sup> pure CO bubbled while that of Pt/C was 94% (Figure S32, Supporting Information). Overall, the transformation—supplementation mechanism of O atoms in anti-CO HOR was verified, in which OH\* reaches the superficial MoO $_x$  to replenish the reactive lattice O atoms for oxidizing absorbed CO, completing the self-repairing of MoO $_x$ , thus weakening the coverage of CO on the catalyst.

The HER performances of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>/C and Pt/C in 0.1 M KOH were also evaluated. The result indicates that the HER performance of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>/C exhibits a volcanic relationship (Figure S34, Supporting Information), in which PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C shows the best intrinsic activity. The overpotential of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C is only 37 mV at current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 20 and 29 mV lower than those of PtMo NPs/C and Pt/C, respectively (Figure S35a, Supporting Information). Besides, PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C shows a Tafel slope of 76 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, lower than those of PtMo NPs/C (85 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and Pt/C (88 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), suggesting its faster HER kinetics (Figure S35b, Supporting Information). PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C provides a higher mass activity of 2.15 mA  $\mu g_{Pt}^{-1}$  than PtMo NPs/C (1.27 mA  $\mu g_{Pt}^{-1}$ ) and Pt/C (1.04 mA  $\mu g_{Pt}^{-1}$ ) at an overpotential of 70 mV (Figure S35c, Supporting Information). Furthermore, PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C presents a superior specific activity (4.15 mA cm $_{\rm Pt}^{-2}$ ) relative to PtMo NPs/C  $(3.02 \text{ mA cm}_{Pt}^{-2})$  and Pt/C  $(1.63 \text{ mA cm}_{Pt}^{-2})$ . The HER performance of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C lies on the top of Pt-based electrocatalysts yet reported in alkaline (Table S5, Supporting Information).

The PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1/C catalyst is also stable for HER by showing insignificant attenuation after 1000 accelerated cycles tests (Figure S36, Supporting Information). To explore the mechanism of enhanced HER catalytic activity, the energy barriers of H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation on the surface of PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1, PtMo NPs, and Pt/C were calculated. The energy barrier of H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation for the transient state at PtMo/MoO<sub>x</sub>-1 is 0.562 eV, much lower than those of PtMo NPs (0.81 eV) and Pt/C (1.24 eV), indicating its

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2023, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202211854 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

accelerated H2O dissociation kinetics (Figures S37–S39, Supporting Information).

## **3. Conclusions**

We have reported a new class of interface NPs with the optimized Had, OHad, and COad adsorptions, composed of PtMo nanocrystals and amorphous MoO*<sup>x</sup>* atomic layers with high oxophilicity, toward efficient anti-CO-poisoning hydrogen cycle electrocatalysis in alkaline media. We demonstrate that a balanced adsorption strength of hydrogen (Had) and hydroxyl (OHad) via modulating unique electronic structure and surface oxophilicity of PtMo/MoO*<sup>x</sup>* interface NPs is crucial for HOR and HER electrocatalysis. Rationally designed PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C catalyst shows the highest HOR kinetic current density and exchange current density, 10.3 and 3.8 times higher than those of Pt/C, respectively. It also delivers a superior HER performance by achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at overpotential of mere 37 mV. The anti-CO-poisoning result and DFT calculations jointly disclose that the superior CO tolerance of PtMo/MoO*x*-1/C results from the reactive oxygen species of amorphous MoO*x*, which efficiently enhances the ability of CO intermediates oxidation and removal.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

H.L and K.W. contributed equally to this work. This study was financially supported by National Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars (No. 52025133), National Key R&D Program of China (No. 2022YFE0128500), Tencent Foundation through the XPLORER PRIZE, National Science Fund for Young Scholars (No. 22102003), and the Research Fund of the State Key Laboratory of Solidification Processing (NPU), China (No. SKLSP202004). The authors thank the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for the synchrotron beam time.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

#### **Keywords**

anti-CO-poisoning, hydrogen electrocatalysis, interface nanoparticles, oxophilicity

> Received: December 18, 2022 Revised: January 19, 2023 Published online: June 4, 2023

- [1] a) X. Tian, P. Zhao, W. Sheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808066; b) J. M. Serra, J. F. Borras-Morell, B. Garcia-Banos, M. Balaguer, P. Plaza-Gonzalez, J. Santos-Blasco, D. Catalan-Martinez, L. Navarrete, J. M. Catala-Civera, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 910; c) Y.-C. Hsieh, Y. Zhang, D. Su, V. Volkov, R. Si, L. Wu, Y. Zhu, W. An, P. Liu, P. He, S. Ye, R. R. Adzic, J. X. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2466; d) L. Fu, Y. Li, N. Yao, F. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7322.
- [2] a) W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Heroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schueler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804; b) J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasche, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255; c) L. An, X. Zhao, T. Zhao, D. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 2620; d) E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, D. Huong Thi Thanh, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232; e) M. E. Scofield, Y. Zhou, S. Yue, L. Wang, D. Su, X. Tong, M. B. Vukmirovic, R. R. Adzic, S. S. Wong, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 3895; f) X. Chen, I. T. McCrum, K. A. Schwarz, M. J. Janik, M. T. M. Koper, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15025.
- [3] a) T. Tang, L. Ding, Z.-C. Yao, H.-R. Pan, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107479; b) R. Zhao, X. Yue, Q. Li, G. Fu, J.-M. Lee, S. Huang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2100391; c) X. Wang, X. Li, D. Kong, L. Zhao, Y. Cui, Y. Wang, T. Cai, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, W. Xing, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *104*, 107877; d) J. Zheng, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, e1501602.
- [4] a) L. Lu, L. Peng, L. Li, J. Li, X. Huang, Z. Wei, *J Energy Chem* **2020**, *40*, 52; b) W. Sheng, M. Myint, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 1509; c) J. Nash, J. Zheng, Y. Wang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, J3378; d) M. Wang, M. Wang, C. Zhan, H. Geng, Y. Li, X. Huang, L. Bu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 18972.
- [5] a) E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 6665; b) Z.-C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J.-S. Hu, L.- J. Wan, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 5153; c) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300; d) S. Lu, Z. Zhuang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5156; e) X.-M. Lin, X.-T. Wang, Y.-L. Deng, X. Chen, H.-N. Chen, P. M. Radjenovic, X.-G. Zhang, Y.-H. Wang, J.-C. Dong, Z.-Q. Tian, J.-F. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 5544; f) J. Zhang, X. Qu, L. Shen, G. Li, T. Zhang, J. Zheng, L. Ji, W. Yan, Y. Han, X. Cheng, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2006698.
- [6] a) P. Prabhu, V. Jose, J.-M. Lee, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910768; b) P. Prabhu, V. Jose, J.-M. Lee, *Matter* **2020**, *2*, 526; c) T. Zhao, G. Wang, M. Gong, D. Xiao, Y. Chen, T. Shen, Y. Lu, J. Zhang, H. Xin, Q. Li, D. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 15207; d) H. Du, Z. Du, T. Wang, B. Li, S. He, K. Wang, L. Xie, W. Ai, W. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204624; e) L. Fu, F. Yang, Y. Hu, Y. Li, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Sci. Bull.* **2020**, *65*, 1735; f) L. Su, Y. Jin, D. Gong, X. Ge, W. Zhang, X. Fan, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *62*, e202215585.
- [7] a) T. Wang, L.-Y. Li, L.-N. Chen, T. Sheng, L. Chen, Y.-C. Wang, P. Zhang, Y.-H. Hong, J. Ye, W.-F. Lin, Q. Zhang, P. Zhang, G. Fu, N. Tian, S.-G. Sun, Z.-Y. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9292; b) Y. Yang, F.-Y. Gao, X.-L. Zhang, S. Qin, L.-R. Zheng, Y.-H. Wang, J. Liao, Q. Yang, M.-R. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202208040.
- [8] a) L. Cao, W. Liu, Q. Luo, R. Yin, B. Wang, J. Weissenrieder, M. Soldemo, H. Yan, Y. Lin, Z. Sun, C. Ma, W. Zhang, S. Chen, H. Wang, Q. Guan, T. Yao, S. Wei, J. Yang, J. Lu, *Nature* **2019**, *565*, 631; b) X. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Wang, B. Mei, E. Luo, Y. Li, Q. Meng, Z. Jin, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, J. Ge, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26177.
- [9] J. Zheng, D. A. Cullen, R. V. Forest, J. A. Wittkopft, Z. Zhuang, W. Sheng, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 1468.
- [10] a) X. Yu, E. C. dos Santos, J. White, G. Salazar-Alvarez, L. G. M. Pettersson, A. Cornell, M. Johnsson, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2104288; b) Z. Xiao, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C. Xie, Z. Liu, S. Du, W. Chen, D. Yan, L. Tao, Z. Shu, G. Zhang, H. Duan, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, R. Chen, S. Wang,

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

- *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 12087; c) Y. Li, M. Wen, Y. Wang, G. Tian, C. Wang, J. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 910.
- [11] a) W. Shao, M. Xiao, C. Yang, M. Cheng, S. Cao, C. He, M. Zhou, T. Ma, C. Cheng, S. Li, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2105763; b) D. Ji, L. Fan, L. Tao, Y. Sun, M. Li, G. Yang, Q. T. Thang, S. Ramakrishna, S. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 13840.
- [12] a) S. Jiao, X. Fu, H. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107651; b) M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Zheng, L. Li, J. Li, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14932.
- [13] T. Ioroi, N. Fujiwara, Z. Siroma, K. Yasuda, Y. Miyazaki, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2002**, *4*, 442.
- [14] a) Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141; b) W. Sheng, H. A. Gasteiger, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2010**, *157*, 1529.
- [15] a) J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z.-F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594; b) M. Li, X. Zheng, L. Li, Z. Wei, *Wuli Huaxue Xuebao* **2021**, *37*, 2007054.
- [16] a) L. Zhuang, J. Jin, H. D. Abruna, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2007**, *129*, 11033; b) Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [17] Z.-D. He, Y.-X. Chen, E. Santos, W. Schmickler, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 7948.
- [18] C. Zhan, Y. Xu, L. Bu, H. Zhu, Y. Feng, T. Yang, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, B. Huang, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6261.
- [19] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.