---
source: Luo 等 - 2024 - Sub‐2 nm Microstrained High‐Entropy‐Alloy Nanoparticles Boost Hydrogen Electrocatalysis.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 27.174s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:10:58.584962Z
---

# **Sub-2 nm Microstrained High-Entropy-Alloy Nanoparticles Boost Hydrogen Electrocatalysis**

*Heng Luo, Lu Li, Fangxu Lin, Qinghua Zhang, Kai Wang, Dawei Wang, Lin Gu, Mingchuan Luo, Fan Lv,\* and Shaojun Guo\**

**High-entropy alloys (HEAs) confine multifarious elements into the same lattice, leading to intense lattice distortion effect. The lattice distortion tends to induce local microstrain at atomic level and thus affect surface adsorptions toward different adsorbates in various electrocatalytic reactions, yet remains unexplored. Herein, this work reports a class of sub-2 nm IrRuRhMoW HEA nanoparticles (NPs) with distinct local microstrain induced by lattice distortion for boosting alkaline hydrogen oxidation (HOR) and evolution reactions (HER). This work demonstrates that the distortion-rich HEA catalysts with optimized electronic structure can downshift the d-band center and generate uncoordinated oxygen sites to enhance the surface oxophilicity. As a result, the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs show a remarkable HOR kinetic current density of 8.09 mA μg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PGM at 50 mV versus RHE, 8.89, 22.47 times higher than those of IrRuRh NPs without internal strain and commercial Pt/C, respectively, which is the best value among all the reported non-Pt based catalysts. IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs also display great HER performances with a turnover frequency (TOF) value of 5.93 H2 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 70 mV versus RHE, 4.6-fold higher than that of Pt/C catalyst, exceeding most noble metal-based catalysts. Experimental characterizations and theoretical studies collectively confirm that weakened hydrogen (Had) and enhanced hydroxyl (OHad) adsorption are achieved by simultaneously modulating the hydrogen adsorption binding energy and surface oxophilicity originated from intensified ligand effect and microstrain effect over IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs, which guarantees the remarkable performances toward HOR/HER.**

## **1. Introduction**

Addressing the sluggish kinetics of hydrogen electrocatalysis, i.e., hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) and hydrogen evolution

H. Luo, L. Li, F. Lin, K. Wang, D. Wang, M. Luo, F. Lv, S. Guo

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Peking University Beijing 100871, P. R. China

E-mail: [lvfan@pku.edu.cn;](mailto:lvfan@pku.edu.cn) [guosj@pku.edu.cn](mailto:guosj@pku.edu.cn)

Q. Zhang, L. Gu

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics

Institute of Physics

Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing 100190, P. R. China

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202403674>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202403674**

reaction (HER) in alkaline media to realize satisfying catalytic performances holds the promise for anion exchange membrane fuel cells and water electrolyzers.[\[1–6\]](#page-8-0) The state-of-the-art platinum group metal (PGMs) catalysts still suffer from the intrinsically over-strong hydrogen adsorption (Had) binding energy (HBE) and the deficient hydroxyl (OHad) adsorption energy, which leads to slow HOR/HER kinetics in alkaline.[\[7–12\]](#page-8-0) An engineering strategy is introducing multielement alloy into PGMs to modulate its electronic structure so as to optimize HBE or construct additional active sites with high oxophilicity to accelerate the Volmer step, which has been proved as effective methods for boosting the kinetics of hydrogen electrocatalysis.[\[13–19\]](#page-8-0) However, regulating absorption energies of Had and OHad simultaneously in alkaline HOR/HER electrocatalysis still remains challenging.

High-entropy alloys (HEAs) have attracted widespread attention in electrocatalysis due to their tunable composition, electronic structure, and significant stability in corrosive media.[\[20–24\]](#page-8-0) Different from the classical lattice strain caused by the intrinsic lattice mismatch or release at sub-nanometer scale,[\[25–28](#page-8-0)] the strain in distortion-rich catalysts, nano HEAs as

representative here, has its local diversity of strains (compress or tensile) in one individual nanoparticle, which provides a new solution for the regulation of multi-site adsorption energies. However, achieving such HEAs within ultrasmall nanoscale to obtain intensified microstrain toward superior catalytic performances remains a grand challenge.

Herein, we present a new method for making a kind of sub-2 nm HEA NPs with distinct internal microstrain for achieving superior hydrogen electrocatalysis. Due to the lattice distortion effect of HEAs, the quinary IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs contain the obviously disordered lattices with different local strain distribution relative to ternary IrRuRh NPs of similar particle sizes, proved by geometric phase analysis (GPA) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS). Surface valence band (VB) photoemission spectra and electrochemical techniques demonstrate that a weakened HBE and enhanced oxophilicity on the microstrain-induced HEAs enable to balance Had and OHad for

promoted HOR/HER in alkaline. As a result, the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs presents a high ECSA of 92.35 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and the highest HOR specific activity (SA) of 8.76 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> PGM, exceeding those of ternary IrRuRh NPs and Pt/C. Moreover, it also exhibits a superior HER performance by achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the overpotential of mere 28 mV in alkaline, respectively, and has a high turnover frequency (TOF) value of 5.93 H2 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 70 mV versus RHE, 4.6 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C catalyst. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations further demonstrate that the ligand effect derived from incorporation of Mo and W with high oxophilicity into HEAs, as well as induced local microstrain collectively optimize the electronic states of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs to regulate the absorption energy between Had and OHad for promoted hydrogen electrocatalysis. This work demonstrates a new strategy to realize multiintermediate binding energy optimization for high-performance energy conversion catalysis by introducing the distinct local microstrain in HEA nanocatalysts.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

The controllable synthesis of ultrafine HEA NPs without separate phases is quite difficult due to the difference in redox potential of mixing elements.[\[29\]](#page-8-0) In this work, five metal carbonyl compounds (M(CO)x, M = Ir, Ru, Rh, Mo, W) were chosen as the precursors, and they experienced a rapid codecomposition without the reduction of metal ions, and then alloyed fastly to generate the HEA NPs at the temperature of 290 °C under Ar atmosphere (**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-2-0). The average size of as-prepared IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs and IrRuRh NPs is below 2 nm (Figure [1b](#page-2-0) and Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information), which is smaller than those of other reported HEAs.[\[30–34\]](#page-8-0) The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0) further reveal that the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs and ternary IrRuRh NPs have a single-phase face-centered cubic (*fcc*) structure, matched well with the standard PDF cards of Ir, Ru, and Rh with a space group of cubic, Fm-3m(225). According to the TEM energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) measurement, the atomic ratio of Ir/Ru/Rh/Mo/W is 15.3/29.1/20.0/13.4/22.2 (Figure S3, Supporting Information), roughly in accordance with the inductively coupled plasmaatomic emission spectroscopy (ICP–AES) (Table S1, Supporting Information). The corresponding high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF–STEM) elemental mapping results of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs indicate homogeneous distribution of all five elements in HEA nanoparticles. (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0). The HAADF–STEM images of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs demonstrate that when the element type reaches five in one individual nanoparticle, the local microstrain is caused. The microstrain is specifically manifested in the lattice expansion or contraction from the selected regions to achieve a relative strain balance, so that the diffraction peak shift is difficult to be observed in XRD pattern (Figure [1e\)](#page-2-0). Figure [1f](#page-2-0) also displays distinctly inconsonant lattice fringes ranging from 0.194 to 0.242 nm. It is noted that more high-density edge sites and step sites are irregularly formed on the surface of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs than that of IrRuRh NPs, indicating its highly exposed surface sites (Figure S4, Supporting Information).

Our method is quite universal for synthesizing the quaternary IrRuRhMo NPs and IrRuRhW NPs. Their morphology and structure are in accordance with IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs (Figures S5 and S6, Supporting Information). The metallic composition of Ir/Ru/Rh/Mo(W) in IrRuRhMo NPs and IrRuRhW NPs is determined to be 22/34.3/30.6/13.1 and 18.9/15.2/38.8/27.1 by ICP– AES, respectively. Besides, the HRTEM images demonstrate that obviously disordered lattices can be observed in IrRuRhMo NPs and IrRuRhW NPs catalysts when the element species increase, implying induced similar microstrain by lattice distortion.

The atomic-resolution STEM image of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs further demonstrates that lattice distortion as well as irregular atomic arrangement composed of different brightness due to high-entropy effect (**Figure [2](#page-3-0)**a and Figure S7, Supporting Information). Figure [2b](#page-3-0) shows the corresponding the fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern of the individual nanoparticle overlapped by at least two sets of diffraction spots. The inverse FFT (IFFT) pattern was further obtained along whole the crystallographic orientations (Figure [2c](#page-3-0) and Figure S8, Supporting Information). The lattice marked with "T" represent dislocations and red curves are distortions. As one can observe, lattice dislocations, twists and distortions can be seen, suggesting the local microstrain in HEA NPs. The GPA based on the atomic-resolution HAADF–STEM data sets related to the (110) and (011) planes display the quantitative xx and xy strain maps (Figure [2d,e\)](#page-3-0). Warm colors indicate expansive lattice deformation and cool colors represent the contraction with respect to the reference. The diversified color changes in the GPA confirm the local microstrain involving compress or tensile strain indeed exist in IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. Furthermore, 3D atom-overlapping Gaussian-function fitting map of the selected region in Figure [2a](#page-3-0) and its projection profile demonstrate disordered atomic distribution with different intensity of atomic columns, indicating lattice distortion-induced microstrain (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). On the contrary, The HAADF-STEM image (Figure [2g](#page-3-0) and Figure S9, Supporting Information) and 3D fitting maps (Figure [2l\)](#page-3-0) of IrRuRh NPs show more ordered atomic arrangement than IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs, and lattice distortions are not observed. The IFFT pattern also reveals regular crystal plane of twinned crystals in IrRuRh NPs (Figure [2i](#page-3-0) and Figure S10, Supporting Information). The GPA image of IrRuRh NPs further demonstrates a more uniform strain distribution than that of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs without larger dilatation or constriction in the xx and xy direction, implying negligible microstrain of IrRuRh NPs (Figure [2j,k\)](#page-3-0). At this point, HAADF–STEM, 3D fitting maps and GPA data collectively reveal the lattice distortion-induced local microstrain due to the high-entropy effect.

The Fourier-transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra of Rh K-edge (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0) of Ir-RuRhMoW HEA NPs show that the average Rh-Rh(M) bond length become shorter with the order of Rh foil (2.69 ± 0.01 Å) *>* IrRuRh NPs (2.68 ± 0.01 Å) *>* IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs (2.67 ± 0.01 Å), further investigated via the corresponding wavelet transform (WT) plots (Figure [3b–d\)](#page-4-0). The slight contraction of the Rh-Rh(M) bond derives from the local compressive microstrain. Besides, the FT-EXAFS spectra (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0) of Ru Kedge and WT data (Figure [3f–h\)](#page-4-0) reveal the interatomic distance of Ru-Ru(M) in the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs (2.68 ± 0.01 Å), IrRuRh NPs (2.65 ± 0.01 Å), and Ru foil (2.67 ± 0.01 Å), assigned to local

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of IrRuRhMoW high-entropy alloy (HEA) nanoparticles (NPs). b) TEM image and particle size distribution (inset) of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. c) X-ray diffraction patterns of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs and IrRuRh NPs matched with the standard PDF cards. d) high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF–STEM) image and the corresponding EDS elemental mapping of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. e) Aberration-corrected HAADF–STEM image of the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. f) Corresponding HAADF intensity profiles analysis and measurement of atomic spacing labeled in e).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a,g) Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) images of an individual IrRuRhMoW and IrRuRh nanoparticle. b,h) fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern of the region in a,g). c,i) Inverse FFT (IFFT) patterns of (−1 1 1) and (0 2 0) plane of the IrRuRhMoW and IrRuRh nanoparticle, presenting abundant dislocations marked with "T" and red lines. d,e,j,k) The strain distributions in geometric phase image of exx and exy direction of IrRuRhMoW high-entropy alloy (HEA) nanoparticles (NPs) and IrRuRh NPs catalysts. f,l) Three-dimensional (3D) topographic images of atomic sites and relative intensity distribution of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs and IrRuRh NPs.

tensile microstrain of Ru-M bond in IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. The correlative shell fitting results are summarized in Table S2 (Supporting Information). Such lattice distortion-induced local microstrain confirms the origin of the regional compression and stretching of the lattice in IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs, enabling an optimal adsorption energy of different reaction intermediates toward hydrogen electrocatalysis.[\[35–37\]](#page-8-0)

The surface chemical states of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs and Ir-RuRh NPs were investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS survey spectrum displays the co-existence of Ir, Ru, Rh, Mo, and W elements in the as-obtained IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Furthermore, one can see that Ir0/Ru0/Rh0 are partially converted to the corresponding Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>/Rh<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> after further introducing the Mo/W atoms due to the enhanced oxygen states on the surface of Ir-RuRhMoW HEA NPs (Figures S12 and S13, Supporting Information). At this point, Mo and W elements with high oxophilicity, possessing the enhanced unsaturated oxygen coordination in distortion-rich IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs, leads to the higher valance states of Ir/Ru/Rh. Generally, the elevated oxidized states can add low lying electron density relative to Fermi level, reflecting the change of the d-band center.[\[38–40\]](#page-9-0) The surface VB photoemission spectra (Figure [3i](#page-4-0) and Figure S14, Supporting Information) show the gradually declined d-band center with the order of IrRuRh NPs (−3.12 eV) *>* IrRuRhMo NPs (−3.43 eV) *>* IrRuRhW NPs (−3.54 eV) *>* IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs (−3.69 eV). The downshift of d-band center for IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs is mainly associated with a reduction in the hydrogen binding energy.[\[41\]](#page-9-0) In addition, the O 1s spectrum in XPS (Figure [3j](#page-4-0) and Figure S15, Supporting Information) shows that the lattice oxygen (Olattice) peak in metal-oxygen bonds from IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs displays higher intensity of 45.7% than those of IrRuRh NPs (21.7%), Ir-RuRhMo NPs (31.7%), and IrRuRhW (32.9%), respectively (Table S3, Supporting Information).[\[42,43\]](#page-9-0) As shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information), the oxygen element in STEM-EDX mapping is enriched at the edge of nanoparticles while the central regions are composed of HEA metallic atoms. In contrast, the IrRuRh NPs display a lower oxygen concentration on the surface (Figure S17, Supporting Information). The implantation of oxyphilic elements (Mo/W) in distortion-rich IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs forms uncoordinated oxygen sites, further clarifying the emerged oxidation state of Ir/Ru/Rh. More surface O sites were observed, which can be conducive to enhance the oxophilicity to accelerate the Volmer step toward hydrogen electrocatalysis.[\[15,44\]](#page-8-0) The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) analysis (Figure [3k\)](#page-4-0) further verifies the presence of abundant oxygen defect species in IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs, originated from unsaturated coordination sites induced by local lattice distortion. The X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) of Ir L3-edge shown in Figure S18 (Supporting Information), where white line peak of IrRuRhMoW

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Fourier-transforms of *k*3-weight a) Rh K-edge for IrRuRhMoW high-entropy alloy (HEA) nanoparticles (NPs), IrRuRh NPs and Rh foil. The corresponding wavelet transform (WT) plots of b) Rh foil, c) IrRuRh NPs, and d) IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. e) Ru K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs, IrRuRh NPs, catalysts and Ru foil. The WT plots of f) Ru foil, g) IrRuRh NPs, and h) IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. i) The surface valence band (VB) photoemission spectra, j) O 1s in X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra and k) electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) signals of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs and IrRuRh NPs catalysts.

HEA NPs exhibits a higher intensity than those of IrRuRh NPs and Ir foil, suggesting a declined 5d band occupation owning to the elevated valence state. Moreover, the oxidation valence of Ru in IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs increases relative to that of Ru foil, confirmed by Ru K-edge XANES spectra (Figure S19, Supporting Information). One can see that Ru-O bond also appears in FT-EXAFS spectra of Ru K-edge (Figure 3e) and the WT maxima (Figure 3h) due to distributed surface O species, being consistent with the XPS results.

Overall, the combination of Mo and W elements with high oxophilicity forming homogeneous IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs with microstrain effect generates uncoordinated oxygen sites on the surface, which can modulate electronic state of HEAs to tune the d-band center for boosting the HOR activity toward the adsorption of \*H intermediates and simultaneously optimize the oxophilic regulation of distortion-rich IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs toward suitable \*OH adsorption energy.

Before investigating their hydrogen electrocatalytic performance, the as-synthesized IrRuRhMoW and IrRuRh nanoparticles were loaded onto on the carbon supports, denoted as Ir-RuRhMoW/C and IrRuRh/C (Figures S20 and S21, Supporting Information). We first evaluated the electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and commercial Pt/C by underpotentially deposited copper (Cuupd) (Figure S22, Supporting Information). IrRuRhMoW/C shows a high ECSA of 92.35 m<sup>2</sup> gIr<sup>+</sup>Ru+Rh<sup>−</sup>1, larger than those of IrRuRh/C (81.48 m<sup>2</sup> gIr<sup>+</sup>Ru+Rh<sup>−</sup>1), Pt/C (74.84 m2 gPt<sup>−</sup>1), and other reported Ir/Ru/Rh-based electrocatalysts (Table S4, Supporting Information), indicating more active sites due to its ultra-fine structure with microstrain.

The HOR electrocatalytic properties of IrRuRhMoW/C, Ir-RuRh/C, and Pt/C were conducted in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-5-0). The Ir-RuRhMoW/C exhibits the dramatic increase in anode current

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Geometric area normalized hydrogen oxidation (HOR) polarization curves. b) The kinetic current densities at 50 mV versus RHE normalized via PGM mass and c) Tafel plots of *j* <sup>k</sup> fitted with the Butler–Volmer equation of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and Pt/C. d) CO stripping and *H*upd potentials of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, Ir/C, and Pt/C. e) Relative chronoamperometry test of Pt/C, IrRuRhMoW/C in 100 ppm CO/H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at 0.1 V versus RHE.

with the potential, indicating much higher dynamics than Ir-RuRh/C and Pt/C. Besides, the kinetic current density normalized via PGM-mass (jk, m) for IrRuRhMoW/C is 8.09 mA μg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PGM at 50 mV versus RHE, 8.89, 22.47 times higher than those of IrRuRh/C (0.91 mA μg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PGM) and Pt/C (0.36 mA μg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PGM), respectively (Figure 4b). Compared with other reported PGMbased HOR catalysts, the jk, m of IrRuRhMoW/C represents the top level (Table S5, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the IrRuRhMoW/C also achieves a highest SA (jk,s) of 8.76 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> PGM, exceeding those of IrRuRh/C (1.11 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> PGM) and Pt/C (0.41 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> PGM), respectively (Figure S23, Supporting Information). Figure 4c shows the Tafel plots of kinetic current fitted with Butler–Volmer equation. IrRuRhMoW/C presents the highest kinetic current throughout the whole potential range. In addition, the slopes of Koutecky–Levich plots of IrRuRhMoW/C and IrRuRh/C are calculated to be 4.74 and 4.48 cm2 mA<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> s<sup>−</sup>1/2, nearly two-electron HOR process (Figure S24, Supporting Information). Micropolarization regions of Jk (−5 to 5 mV) for Ir-RuRhMoW/C enjoys higher value, indicating the great HOR dynamics (Figure S25, Supporting Information). Furthermore, we find that the IrRuRhMo NPs and IrRuRhW NPs show high jk,m of 5.05 mA μg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PGM and 4.69 mA μg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PGM, respectively for HOR, 5.55 and 5.15 times higher than those of IrRuRh/C (Figure S26, Supporting Information).

Hydrogen underpotential deposition (H-upd) and CO stripping were employed to reveal the origin for the enhanced HOR performance of IrRuRhMoW/C (Figure 4d). As shown in Figure S27 (Supporting Information), the potential peaks of hydrogen desorption/adsorption associated with HBE emerge an order of Pt/C (0.29 V) *>* Ir/C (0.24 V) *>* IrRuRh/C (0.20 V) *>* IrRuRhMoW/C (0.18 V). The weakened hydrogen absorption originated from the optimal d-band center greatly accelerates the Volmer step of HOR. In addition, adjusting the oxophilicity on the surface of catalysts to effectively promote the adsorption of OHad further improves the desorption of Had serves as another factor to enhance HOR performance. Herein, we executed the CO stripping experiment to monitor hydroxyl absorption ability because the CO oxidation need to be triggered via the hydroxyl group. The potential of CO stripping peaks decreases successively in the sequence of Ir/C (0.95 V) *>* IrRuRh/C (0.81 V) *>* Pt/C (0.71 V) *>* IrRuRhMoW/C (0.67 V) (Figure S28, Supporting Information), suggesting increased OHad adsorption of Ir-RuRhMoW/C. Overall, the excellent HOR performance of our catalysts can be attributed to well-balanced adsorption behaviors between Had and OHad intermediates.

The anti-CO poisoning property is the key to determine the performance of fuel cells.[\[45\]](#page-9-0) The HOR stability against COpoisoning was further investigated by the chronoamperometry method at 0.1 V versus RHE in the presence of 100 ppm CO/H2 saturated 0.1 m KOH (Figure 4e). The relative current density of IrRuRhMoW/C decreases by only 10.87% of its original activity after 10 000 s, while Pt/C catalyst was attenuated by 62.53% for 6400 s test. The anti-CO poisoning performance of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs also lies on the top of electrocatalysts recently reported in alkaline (Table S6, Supporting Information). Moreover, the potential peak of CO stripping of IrRuRhMoW/C reaches 0.71 V versus RHE, lower than those of Pt/C (0.84 V), IrRuRh/C (0.81 V) and Ir/C (0.95 V), respectively, suggesting the enhanced anti-CO poisoning ability (Figure S29, Supporting Information). We further evaluated the stability of IrRuRhMoW/C toward HOR by

**Figure 5.** a) Reaction pathway for hydrogen oxidation (HOR) on the strain-IrRuRhMoW model. Colors in the figure: yellow sphere is Ir atom, green sphere is Rh atom, brown sphere is Ru atom, purple sphere is Mo atom, gray sphere is W atom, red sphere is O atom, and small pink sphere is H atom. b) The d-band center of Ir, Ru and Rh in IrRuRh, IrRuRhMoW, and strain-IrRuRhMoW models calculated from partial density of state (PDOS). Calculated crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) for \*H and catalysts: c) IrRuRh, d) IrRuRhMoW, and e) strain-IrRuRhMoW. f) Charge density difference (Δ) of \*OH adsorbed on strain-IrRuRhMoW. g) The relevant elementary steps for HOR on the IrRuRh, IrRuRhMoW, and strain-IrRuRhMoW models.

the accelerated durability tests (ADTs). After 2000 cycles of ADTs in the potential range of 0–0.3 V versus RHE, negligible performance attenuation is observed for IrRuRhMoW/C, and the morphology can be maintained (Figures S30 and S31, Supporting Information).

DFT calculations were employed to further elucidate the origin of the exceptional HOR performance of IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs. The correlative calculation methods are summarized the part of theoretical calculations in the Supporting Information. Based on all above experimental results, we built three models including ternary IrRuRh, IrRuRhMoW HEA without microstrain (IrRuRhMoW), and IrRuRhMoW HEA with microstrain (strain-IrRuRhMoW) (**Figure 5**a and Figures S32 and S33, Supporting Information) and calculated the adsorption energy of \*H, \*OH, and \*H2O during HOR. Firstly, partial density of state (PDOS) was calculated for Ir, Ru, and Rh atoms of IrRuRh, IrRuRhMoW, and strain-IrRuRhMoW to evaluate their d-band centers (Figure S34, Supporting Information). Figure 5b presents the gradually declined d-band center with the order of IrRuRh *>* IrRuRhMoW *>* strain-IrRuRhMoW (Table S7, Supporting Information), being in agreement with the experimental results. The crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) diagrams further demonstrate that the strain-IrRuRhMoW possesses weaker metal-H bonding state occupancy (0.11 eV) than those of IrRuRhMoW (0.50 eV) and IrRuRh (1.15 eV), indicating its weakened hydrogen adsorption (Figure 5c–e). Besides, the charge density differences reveal that an intense electron transfer between strain-IrRuRhMoW and \*OH intermediates with more charge accumulation toward \*OH, which also confirms the strengthened \*OH adsorption on strain-IrRuRhMoW (Figure 5f and Figure S35, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the free energy diagram of HOR pathway on IrRuRh, IrRuRhMoW, and strain-IrRuRhMoW were also calculated (Figure 5g). The strain-IrRuRhMoW presents a weakened Δ*E*H\* of −0.34 eV and enhanced Δ*E*OH\* of −0.82 eV, respectively, thus achieving the lowest energy barrier (0.11 eV) of potential determining step (PDS) than those of IrRuRhMoW (0.19 eV) and

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atana.202403674 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 6. a) Hydrogen evolution reactions (HER) polarization curves and b) mass activities at 70 mV versus RHE of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and Pt/C. c) Turnover frequency (TOF) values and comparisons (inset) of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and Pt/C in 0.1 m KOH. d) HER polarization curves and e) mass activities at 20 mV versus RHE of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and Pt/C. f) TOF values and comparisons (inset) of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and Pt/C in 0.1 m HClO<sub>4</sub>.

IrRuRh (0.25 eV). As concluded from the above-mentioned results, combining oxyphilic elements of Mo and W into HEAs and induced microstrain collectively optimize the local electronic structure of Ir/Ru/Rh atoms for downshifting d-band center and reinforcing electron transfer toward \*OH intermediates on strain-IrRuRhMoW, which efficiently enhance HOR performance.

The HER performances of IrRuRhMoW/C, IrRuRh/C, and commercial Pt/C were also investigated in 0.1 м КОН solutions (Figure 6a). Among these electrocatalysts, IrRuRhMoW/C requires a low overpotential of only 28 mV to attain the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, much smaller than those of IrRuRh/C (49 mV) and Pt/C (53 mV). The corresponding Tafel slopes of IrRuRhMoW/C is 51 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, much lower than those of Ir-RuRh/C (65 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Pt/C (79 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting faster kinetics (Figure \$36, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the IrRuRhMoW/C exhibits a high mass activity (MA) of 2.59 mA  $\mu g^{-1}$  and SA of 2.83 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, exceeding those of IrRuRh/C (MA: 1.73 mA  $\mu$ g<sup>-1</sup>, SA: 2.06 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and commercial Pt/C (MA: 1.31 mA μg<sup>-1</sup>, SA: 1.75 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively (Figure 6b and Figure S37, Supporting Information). IrRuRhMoW/C presents the highest TOF value of 5.93 H<sub>2</sub> s<sup>-1</sup> at 70 mV versus RHE, 4.6 times higher than that of Pt/C catalyst (1.30  $H_2$  s<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 6c).

The HER stability was further conducted by chronopotentiometry (CP) at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. We found that IrRuRhMoW/C shows no significant attenuation during the 15 h continuous operation and morphology can be kept after the stability test (Figure S38, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the HER performances were also probed in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solutions. Similarly, the IrRuRhMoW/C exhibits an overpotential of only 14 mV at 10 mA

cm<sup>-2</sup> and a low Tafel slope of 27 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, smaller than those of IrRuRh/C (25 mV, 46 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Pt/C (20 mV, 28 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 6d and Figure S39, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 6e and Figure S40 (Supporting Information), the MA and SA of IrRuRhMoW/C were calculated to be 2.06 mA  $\mu$ g<sup>-1</sup> and 2.2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> <sub>PGM</sub>, respectively, superior to those of IrRuRh/C, Pt/C and other PGM-based catalysts (Table S8, Supporting Information). To trace the high intrinsic activity of IrRuRhMoW/C, the TOF value at 20 mV (versus RHE) is 4.91 H<sub>2</sub> s<sup>-1</sup>, 5.1 times than that of Pt/C (0.97 H<sub>2</sub> s<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 6f). We also evaluate the stability of the IrRuRhMoW/C at a current of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 15 h. There is no significant degradation of performance, and the morphology can be maintained (Figure S41, Supporting Information).

#### 3. Conclusions

In summary, we synthesized a kind of microstrain-modulated Ir-RuRhMoW HEA NPs within sub-2 nm as a superior catalyst for HER/HOR electrocatalysis. GPA analysis and EXAFS fitting mutually demonstrate that the local lattice microstrain distributes nonuniformly at different areas of one individual distortion-rich IrRuRhMoW HEA NP, which brings about the optimization of multisite adsorption energies. The VB photoemission spectra, DFT calculations, and electrochemical characterizations speculate that the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs achieve a depressed d-band center and enhanced oxophilicity caused by intensified ligand effect and microstrain effect, enabling the suitable modulation between  $H_{\rm ad}$  and  $OH_{\rm ad}$  adsorptions for boosting hydrogen electrocatalysis. As a result, the IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs show an impressive HOR kinetic current density of 8.09 mA  $\mu g^{-1}_{\rm PGM}$  at 50 mV

<span id="page-8-0"></span>versus RHE, 8.89 and 22.47 times higher than those of IrRuRh NPs without internal strain and commercial Pt/C, respectively, which is the best performance among all the reported non-Pt based catalysts. The IrRuRhMoW HEA NPs also present a great TOF value of 5.93 H2 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 70 mV versus RHE for HER in alkaline, 4.6 times higher than that of Pt/C catalyst.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This study was financially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52333010, No. 52025133, No. 52261135633, No. 22309004), National Key R&D Program of China (2022YFE0128500), China National Petroleum Corporation-Peking University Strategic Cooperation Project of Fundamental Research, the Beijing Natural Science Foundation (No. Z220020), Tencent Foundation through the XPLORER PRIZE, and China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Nos. 2022M710187 and 2023M730029). The authors thank the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for the synchrotron beam time.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

#### **Keywords**

high-entropy alloy, hydrogen electrocatalysis, lattice distortion, microstrain, sub-nanometer nanoparticles

> Received: March 12, 2024 Revised: May 12, 2024 Published online: June 4, 2024

- [1] B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020.
- [2] Q. Wang, H. Wang, H. Cao, C.-W. Tung, W. Liu, S.-F. Hung, W. Wang, C. Zhu, Z. Zhang, W. Cai, Y. Cheng, H. B. Tao, H. M. Chen, Y.-G. Wang, Y. Li, H. B. Yang, Y. Huang, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 916.
- [3] Z. Chen, H. Hu, L. Yin, Z. Zhao, J.-H. Choi, G. Liu, F. Geng, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2023**, *120*, 2209760120.
- [4] W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Heroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schueler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804.
- [5] X. Tian, R. Ren, F. Wei, J. Pei, Z. Zhuang, L. Zhuang, W. Sheng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 76.
- [6] F.-Y. Gao, S.-N. Liu, J.-C. Ge, X.-L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y.-R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. Dong, X. Yu, R.-C. Bao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, Z.-G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M.-R. Gao, Y. Yan, S.-H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 993.
- [7] S. Zhu, X. Qin, F. Xiao, S. Yang, Y. Xu, Z. Tan, J. Li, J. Yan, Q. Chen, M. Chen, M. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 711.

- [8] I. T. McCrum, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 891.
- [9] E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, D. H. T. Thanh, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232.
- [10] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z.-F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.
- [11] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [12] L. Fu, Y. Li, N. Yao, F. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7322.
- [13] Q. Sun, N. J. Oliveira, S. Kwon, S. Tyukhtenko, J. J. Guo, N. Myrthil, S. A. Lopez, I. Kendrick, S. Mukerjee, L. Ma, S. N. Ehrlich, J. Li, W. A. Goddard Iii, Y. Yan, Q. Jia, *Nat. Energy* **2023**, *8*, 859.
- [14] L. Han, P. Ou, W. Liu, X. Wang, H.-T. Wang, R. Zhang, C.-W. Pao, X. Liu, W.-F. Pong, J. Song, Z. Zhuang, M. V. Mirkin, J. Luo, H. L. Xin, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabm3779.
- [15] H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211854.
- [16] S. Lu, Z. Zhuang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5156.
- [17] T. Tang, X. Liu, X. Luo, Z. Xue, H.-R. Pan, J. Fu, Z.-C. Yao, Z. Jiang, Z.- H. Lyu, L. Zheng, D. Su, J.-N. Zhang, L. Zhang, J.-S. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 13805.
- [18] B. Zhang, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, J. Wang, D. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Xia, M. Gao, Y. Liu, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5894.
- [19] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [20] H. Li, Y. Han, H. Zhao, W. Qi, D. Zhang, Y. Yu, W. Cai, S. Li, J. Lai, B. Huang, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5437.
- [21] T. A. A. Batchelor, J. K. Pedersen, S. H. Winther, I. E. Castelli, K. W. Jacobsen, J. Rossmeisl, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, 834.
- [22] Y.-H. Liu, C.-J. Hsieh, L.-C. Hsu, K.-H. Lin, Y.-C. Hsiao, C.-C. Chi, J.- T. Lin, C.-W. Chang, S.-C. Lin, C.-Y. Wu, J.-Q. Gao, C.-W. Pao, Y.-M. Chang, M.-Y. Lu, S. Zhou, T.-H. Yang, *Sci. Adv.* **2023**, *9*, eadf9931.
- [23] M. W. Glasscott, A. D. Pendergast, S. Goines, A. R. Bishop, A. T. Hoang, C. Renault, J. E. Dick, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2650.
- [24] A. L. Maulana, P.-C. Chen, Z. Shi, Y. Yang, C. L. Pueyo, F. Seeler, H. D. Abruna, D. Muller, K. S. Arndt, P. Yang, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 6637.
- [25] L. Bu, N. Zhang, S. Guo, X. Zhang, J. Li, J. Yao, T. Wu, G. Lu, J.-Y. Ma, D. Su, X. Huang, *Science* **2016**, *354*, 1410.
- [26] G. Wu, X. Han, J. Cai, P. Yin, P. Cui, X. Zheng, H. Li, C. Chen, G. Wang, X. Hong, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4200.
- [27] S. Hao, H. Sheng, M. Liu, J. Huang, G. Zheng, F. Zhang, X. Liu, Z. Su, J. Hu, Y. Qian, L. Zhou, Y. He, B. Song, L. Lei, X. Zhang, S. Jin, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2021**, *16*, 1371.
- [28] S. Maiti, K. Maiti, M. T. Curnan, K. Kim, K.-J. Noh, J. W. Han, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3717.
- [29] N. Nie, Y. Zhang, Y. Gu, H. Du, Y. Yuan, Y. Yang, H. Li, B. Yang, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *62*, 12337.
- [30] H. Zhu, S. Sun, J. Hao, Z. Zhuang, S. Zhang, T. Wang, Q. Kang, S. Lu, X. Wang, F. Lai, T. Liu, G. Gao, M. Du, D. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 619.
- [31] G. Zhu, Y. Jiang, H. Yang, H. Wang, Y. Fang, L. Wang, M. Xie, P. Qiu, W. Luo, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110128.
- [32] P. Zhao, Q. Cao, W. Yi, X. Hao, J. Li, B. Zhang, L. Huang, Y. Huang, Y. Jiang, B. Xu, Z. Shan, J. Chen, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 14017.
- [33] B. Song, Y. Yang, T. T. Yang, K. He, X. Hu, Y. Yuan, V. P. Dravid, M. R. Zachariah, W. A. Saidi, Y. Liu, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 1742.
- [34] H. Minamihara, K. Kusada, T. Yamamoto, T. Toriyama, Y. Murakami, S. Matsumura, L. S. R. Kumara, O. Sakata, S. Kawaguchi, Y. Kubota, O. Seo, S. Yasuno, H. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17136.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>

#### **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

- [35] W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y.-C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 10797.
- [36] F. Podjaski, D. Weber, S. Zhang, L. Diehl, R. Eger, V. Duppel, E. Alarcon-Llado, G. Richter, F. Haase, A. Fontcuberta i Morral, C. Scheu, B. V. Lotsch, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 55.
- [37] T. Gong, H. Alghamdi, D. Raciti, A. S. Hall, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2023**, *8*, 685.
- [38] Z. Lyu, X.-G. Zhang, Y. Wang, K. Liu, C. Qiu, X. Liao, W. Yang, Z. Xie, S. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 16093.
- [39] F. Liu, X. Gao, R. Shi, Z. Guo, E. C. M. Tse, Y. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202300094.
- [40] Y. Wang, J. Liu, H. Yuan, F. Liu, T. Hu, B. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2211909.

- [41] M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Zheng, L. Li, J. Li, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14932.
- [42] W. Hu, Y. Liu, R. L. Withers, T. J. Frankcombe, L. Noren, A. Snashall, M. Kitchin, P. Smith, B. Gong, H. Chen, J. Schiemer, F. Brink, J. Wong-Leung, *Nat. Mater.* **2013**, *12*, 821.
- [43] Z. Xiao, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C. Xie, Z. Liu, S. Du, W. Chen, D. Yan, L. Tao, Z. Shu, G. Zhang, H. Duan, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, R. Chen, S. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 12087.
- [44] F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 14179.
- [45] T. Wang, L.-Y. Li, L.-N. Chen, T. Sheng, L. Chen, Y.-C. Wang, P. Zhang, Y.-H. Hong, J. Ye, W.-F. Lin, Q. Zhang, P. Zhang, G. Fu, N. Tian, S.-G. Sun, Z.-Y. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9292.