---
source: Mu 等 - 2024 - Symmetry‐Broken Ru Nanoparticles with Parasitic Ru‐Co Dual‐Single Atoms Overcome the Volmer Step of.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.452s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:12:31.997058Z
---

## *Zuschriften*

*Fuel Cells*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202319618 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202319618](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202319618)

# **Symmetry-Broken Ru Nanoparticles with Parasitic Ru-Co Dual-Single Atoms Overcome the Volmer Step of Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation**

*Xueqin Q. Mu, [Suli](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7126-4631) L. Liu,\* Mengyang Y. Zhang, Zechao C. Zhuang, Ding Chen, Yuru R. Liao, Hongyu Y. Zhao, Shichun C. Mu, [Dingsheng](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0074-7633) S. Wang,\* and Zhihui H. Dai\**

**Abstract:** Efficient dual-single-atom catalysts are crucial for enhancing atomic efficiency and promoting the commercialization of fuel cells, but addressing the sluggish kinetics of hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline media and the facile dual-single-atom site generation remains formidable challenges. Here, we break the local symmetry of ultra-small ruthenium (Ru) nanoparticles by embedding cobalt (Co) single atoms, which results in the release of Ru single atoms from Ru nanoparticles on reduced graphene oxide (Co1Ru1,n/ rGO). In situ operando spectroscopy and theoretical calculations reveal that the oxygen-affine Co atom disrupts the symmetry of ultra-small Ru nanoparticles, resulting in parasitic Ru and Co dual-single-atom within Ru nanoparticles. The interaction between Ru single atoms and nanoparticles forms effective active centers. The parasitism of Co atoms modulates the adsorption of OH intermediates on Ru active sites, accelerating HOR kinetics through faster formation of \*H2O. As anticipated, Co1Ru1,n/rGO exhibits ultrahigh mass activity (7.68 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> ) at 50 mV and exchange current density (0.68 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), which are 6 and 7 times higher than those of Ru/rGO, respectively. Notably, it also displays exceptional durability surpassing that of commercial Pt catalysts. This investigation provides valuable insights into hybrid multi-single-atom and metal nanoparticle catalysis.

[\*] X. Q. Mu, Prof. S. L. Liu, M. Y. Zhang, Y. R. Liao, Prof. Z. H. Dai School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering Nanjing Tech University Nanjing 211816 (P. R. China)

E-mail: liusl@njtech.edu.cn dzh@njtech.edu.cn

X. Q. Mu, D. Chen, H. Y. Zhao, Prof. S. C. Mu State Key Laboratory of Advanced Technology for Materials Synthesis and Processing Wuhan University of Technology Wuhan 430070 (P. R. China)

Z. C. Zhuang, D. S. Wang Engineering Research Center of Advanced Rare Earth Materials Department of Chemistry, Tsinghua University Beijing100084 (P. R. China) E-mail: wangdingsheng@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn

*A*nion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs), as <sup>a</sup> highly promising clean energy technology, attract significant attention due to the potential utilization of efficient nonprecious metal-based electrocatalysts for the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[1–3] However, when compared to acidic conditions, the kinetics of the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) encounters significant limitations under alkaline conditions primarily due to the Volmer step consistently acting as a rate-limiting factor.[4,5] It is noted that OH adsorbs onto the electrode surface in an alkaline solution and then transforms into the adsorbed state (OHad) by obtaining electrons from the electrode surface, which determines the rate of reduction rate.[6] Subsequently, OH combines with electrons supplied by the electrode surface to form water molecules (H2O).[6,7] When the rate of electron transfer lags significantly behind the rates of OH adsorption and hydrolysis, electron transfer emerges as the limiting step in the overall reduction process.[4,8]

To expedite the Volmer step in alkaline conditions via the hydroxyl adsorption energy (OHBE), considerable efforts have been invested in enhancing OHad adsorption and modifying the surface ionophilicity of catalysts by incorporating oxyphilic atoms.[9,10] However, it is imperative to carefully select and design appropriate methods for introducing oxygen atoms to achieve the desired effect.[11] Furthermore, there is a pressing need to elucidate the influential mechanisms underlying the introduction of oxygen atoms on the surface property of catalysts. Compared to platinum (Pt), ruthenium (Ru) has emerged as an attractive alternative catalyst due to similar metal-hydrogen-bond strength to Pt, lower cost, and notably higher tolerance to CO.[12] However, Ru has greater oxyphilicity than Pt, consequently preferentially generating Ru-OHad species at low anode potentials, impeding hydrogen adsorption and significantly diminishing the kinetics of the HOR.[13] Crucially, a key challenge lies in finding a balance between promoting water dissociation and mitigating the detrimental effects of OHad on Ru sites. Through the deliberate design of a novel active center aiming at decoupling competitive adsorption, it optimizes adsorption energies for all pertinent intermediate species.[5] However, the adsorption energy may vary among different intermediate substances.[12,13] Consequently, enhancing the efficiency and selectivity of the reaction hinges on the ongoing pursuit of strategies by fine-

15213757, 2024, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte*

tuning the adsorption energy of each intermediate in the active center.

Dual-single-atom catalysts exhibit distinct catalytic activity when compared to single-atom catalysts, owing to unique electronic structures and parametric coordination environments.[14,15] Simultaneously, manipulating the size and atomic structures of nanoparticles can result in significantly larger surface areas and abundant reactive interfaces, which are advantageous for enhancing catalyst activity.[15] Furthermore, perturbing symmetric structures can lead to substantial differences at the interface, including lattice distortion, defects, electron redistribution, changes in charge density, and emergence of edge sites.[16] These alterations are conducive to the adsorption and activation of reaction intermediates.[17] Therefore, it can be inferred that an asymmetric dual-single-atom and nanoparticle system would facilitate charge transfer by balancing the adsorption behaviors of Had and OHad on distinct metal active sites during HOR processes. Such a system would also provide greater stability for single-atom metal sites through effective interactions between nanoparticles and single atoms which inhibits migration and aggregation of single atoms during reactions.[18]

In this study, we deliberately disrupt the symmetry structure of Ru nanoparticles by introducing cobalt (Co) single atoms, thereby creating a highly efficient Co1Ru1,n/ rGO catalyst. The incorporation of Co single atoms at the crystal edge through symmetry breaking brings about a significant impact on charge density distribution and prompts electron rearrangement, subsequently influencing the adsorption and reaction behavior of intermediates on Ru sites. Compared to single-metal catalysts, Co1Ru1,n/rGO exhibits a remarkable increase in catalytic activity. By manipulating multiple active sites within the parasitic Ru-Co double single-atom system in Ru nanoparticles, the binding of H and OH species is optimized, resulting in unprecedented HOR catalytic performance for Co1Ru1,n/rGO while maintaining exceptional stability. Additionally, the asymmetric interface between Co1Ru1,n/rGO provides effective protection to metallic Ru against oxidation thereby contributing significantly to the outstanding performance.

As depicted schematically in Figure 1a, Co1Ru1,n/rGO featuring Co-Ru dual-single-atom within Ru nanoparticles is synthesized on reduced graphene(rGO) through a solvothermal method. This process involves precise atomic-level engineering that disrupts the symmetry structure of Ru. During the reduction, Co atoms from cobalt chloride exist as Co single atoms. Under specific reaction conditions, Co atoms infiltrate the interior of the Ru lattice from the edges of the Ru nanoparticle by partially replacing Ru atoms. This substitution effectively breaks the symmetry of the Ru structure.[19] Furthermore, a small fraction of the displaced Ru atoms can be found on the surface of the structure as isolated single atoms. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) images (Figures S1 and 1b) demonstrate that Ru nanoparticles are uniformly distributed on the rGO surface, with an average particle size of 3.7 nm. Importantly, both Co and Ru single atoms are consistently dispersed around the Ru nanoparticles on rGO. The Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) pattern shows a hexagonal-close-packed (*hcp*) Ru structure, as revealed in magnified TEM and HAADF-STEM images of Co1Ru1,n/rGO (Figures 1c and S2).[20] Notably, the destruction of the edge structure in Ru is observed, specifically indicated by cyan arrows in Figure 1d where dispersed atoms with partial atomic absence can be seen. Furthermore, intensity line profiles and element analyses corresponding to marked green lines shown in Figure 1e provide conclusive evidence for atomic isolation of both Ru and Co species on the surface of Co1Ru1,n/rGO due to pronounced intensity contrast.

Additionally, as illustrated in Figures 1f and S3, the introduction of Co atoms disrupts the symmetry structure of the Ru nanoparticle, consequently resulting in the formation of atomic vacancies at the edges. This phenomenon arises due to differences in the atomic arrangement between edge positions and interior regions. These vacancies at the edges offer additional lattice spaces, facilitating the infiltration of Co atoms into the particle interior.[19] Upon incorporation into the nanoparticle, Co atoms occupy the original positions of other atoms, resulting in an asymmetric structure and generation of defects. This structural alteration, in turn, has a significant impact on the overall catalytic activity of the catalyst.[13] Furthermore, atomic resolution X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping in Figure 1g demonstrates the uniform distribution of Co, Ru, and O on Co1Ru1,n/rGO. This distribution aligns with the elemental analysis obtained from inductively coupled plasma (ICP) analysis, indicating Ru and Co contents in the catalyst of 2.09% and 0.06% by weight, respectively (Table S1).

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns depicted in Figure 2a confirm the presence of the *hcp* structure of ruthenium (Ru) (PDF No. 65–1863) in both Ru/rGO and Co1Ru1,n/rGO, verifying that Ru/rGO morphology (Figure S4) did not change significantly due to the introduction of Co. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) reveals characteristic signals corresponding to Ru, Co, and O for Co1Ru1,n/rGO (Figure S5). The high-resolution Co 2p spectra (Figure 2b) exhibit six peaks. The Co 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 peaks are situated at binding energies of 779.1 and 795.0 eV, respectively, corresponding to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. [22,23] Furthermore, the fitted Ru 3p spectra (Figure 2c) display four peaks on the surface of Co1Ru1,n/rGO, representing Ru<sup>0</sup> and several oxidation states of Ru<sup>n</sup><sup>+</sup> cations.[21] Notably, in contrast to Ru/rGO, the Ru 3p peak of Co1Ru1,n/rGO exhibits a slight positive shift (0.12 eV) toward lower binding energies, suggesting a greater electron transfer from Ru to Co. This shift can be attributed to the disparity in electronegativity between Ru and Co atoms, resulting in a synergistic coupling effect between these two elements.[24] Simultaneously, the histogram depicting the ratios of different O species identified in the O 1s XPS spectrum (Figure S6) in both Ru/rGO and Co1Ru1,n/rGO, consistent with the results of the EPR analysis (Figure S7). X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements of Co1Ru1,n/rGO are presented in Figures 2d–2i. The average oxidation state of Ru in Co1Ru1,n/rGO falls between 0 and +4 (Figure 2d),

*Figure 1.* (a) Structure design of Co1Ru1,n/rGO catalysts. (b–d) Atomic-resolved HADDF-STEM images of a representative Co1Ru1,n/rGO. The inset in 1b represents particle size distribution. The red circles in 1c indicate the single atoms and nanoparticles. The inset in 1c is the yellow box corresponding to the FFT pattern. The cyan arrows in 1d represent the edge structure with atomic deletion and the green lines in 1d correspond to 1e. (f) Structural model inference of Co1Ru1,n/rGO. (g) EDS mapping of Co1Ru1,n/rGO.

indicating that the majority of Ru within the compound exists in a metallic state.[25] Additionally, Figure 2e displays that the first shell peak at approximately 1.51 Å is attributed to the structure of isolated Ru atoms coordinated with oxygen atoms. Notably, the peak situated at 2.48 Å is attributed to the contribution of Ru-Ru(Co) in the second shell, respectively, aligning with the EXAFS fitting results (Figure S8 and Table S2).25 Moving to the Co K-edge XANES spectra (Figure 2f), the K-edge absorption intensity of Co in Co1Ru1,n/rGO falls between that of Co3O4 and Co foil, revealing that the average oxidation state of Co<sup>δ</sup><sup>+</sup> in Co1Ru1,n/rGO lies between these reference compounds. Furthermore, the Fourier-transformed (FT) EXAFS peak in Figure 2g at ~1.50 Å and ~3.50 Å corresponds to the backscattering of Co-O, the peak at ~2.50 Å corresponds to the backscattering of Co-Co.[23,25] The slightly positive shift of the Co-O coordination for Co1Ru1,n/rGO possibly originates from the strong electronic interaction between Ru and Co. The fitting results indicate a coordination number of 6.1 for Co-O in Co1Ru1,n/rGO, affirming the formation of a sixcoordination configuration for Co species with O atoms in the catalyst (Figure S9 and Table S3). The wavelet transform (WT)-EXAFS contour plot for Co1Ru1,n/rGO (Figures 2h and 2i) reveals two distinct regions: a first shell domain for Ru-O scattering with a local maximum at k=6.4 Å <sup>1</sup> , and a second shell domain for the Ru-Ru(Co) at k=9.3 Å <sup>1</sup> . [25,26] This result suggests that Ru in Co1Ru1,n/rGO exists in both oxidized and metallic Ru states. Conversely, Co primarily

*Figure 2.* (a) XRD patterns of Co1Ru1,n/rGO, and Ru/rGO. High-resolution XPS spectra of (b) Co 2p and (c) Ru 3p. (d) XANES and (e) EXAFS spectra of Co1Ru1,n/rGO, Ru-foil, and RuO2 at Ru K-edge. (f) XANES and (g) EXAFS spectra of Co1Ru1,n/rGO, Co-foil, and Co3O4 at Co K-edge. (h, i) WT for the k3-weighted EXAFS signal at Ru K-edge and Co K-edge.

resides in an oxidized state (Figure 2i), while the external electrons of Ru and Co exhibit a strong interaction.

The electrocatalytic activity for the HOR of Co1Ru1,n/ rGO Ru/rGO, Co/rGO, and Pt/C was assessed using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) at 1600 rpm and a scan rate of 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> in 1.0 M KOH saturated with H2, with all data corrected for ohmic resistance (with iR correction).[27] Among them, Co1Ru1,n/rGO demonstrates the highest HOR activity (Figure 3a). To further investigate the kinetics of the HOR, polarization curves of the catalysts were obtained at various rotation rates ranging from 2000 to 800 rpm, providing additional support for the two-electron pathway of the HOR (Figures 3b and S10).[27,28] The calculated slope for Co1Ru1,n/rGO is 4.37 cm2mA <sup>1</sup> s 1/2, closely matching the theoretical value of 4.87 cm2mA <sup>1</sup> s 1/2. In addition, the fitting HOR kinetic parameters using the Butler–Volmer equation, and the Tafel plots of *j*<sup>k</sup> versus potential are shown in Figure 3c. Also, Co1Ru1,n/rGO exhibits higher mass activity than that of previously reported HOR catalysts (Figure 3d, Table S4). The calculated mass activity for Co1Ru1,n/rGO is 7.68 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> , surpassing Ru/rGO (1.31 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> ) by a factor of six at an overpotential of 50 mV (Figure 3e). To determine the exchange current density (j0) in the Tafel region, the K–L equation was employed (Figure S11). Co1Ru1,n/rGO displays a j0 value of 0.68 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is 7 times larger than that of Ru/rGO (Figure 3e). Moreover, as shown in Figure 3f, the lower charge resistance observed from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) for Co1Ru1,n/rGO implies a faster rate of charge transfer and rapid catalytic kinetics.[22]

The accelerated durability test (ADT) indicates that Co1Ru1,n/rGO has no significant deviation in performance even after 8000 cyclic voltammetry curves (CVs), as depicted in Figure 3g. In contrast, under the same conditions (Figure 3h), the activity of Pt/C exhibits a noticeable decrease. The TEM, XPS, and XRD spectra obtained after the ADT

*Figure 3.* (a) Co1Ru1,n/rGO, Ru/rGO, Co/rGO and Pt/C HOR polarization curves in 1.0 M KOH at a scan rate of 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> at 1600 rpm. (b) HOR polarization curves of Co1Ru1,n/rGO at various rotating speeds. (c) Tafel slopes of Co1Ru1,n/rGO, Ru/rGO, and Pt/C. (d) Comparison of the mass activities of Co1Ru1,n/rGO and previously reported electrocatalysts at 50 mV in alkaline media. (e) Mass activities at 50 mV and exchange current densities (j0) comparison of Co1Ru1,n/rGO and Ru/rGO. (f) EIS Nyquist plots. (g, h) Comparison of the stability between Pt/C and Co1Ru1,n/rGO using the cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperometry techniques. (i) HOR polarization curves of Co1Ru1,n/rGO and Pt/C in pure H2 and 1000 ppm CO/H2-saturated 1.0 M KOH.

(Figure S12) confirm that the Ru catalyst with symmetrically broken parasitic Ru-Co atoms possesses remarkable stability during the HOR test and maintains stably throughout the reaction, without any noticeable structural changes or deactivation phenomena. Furthermore, considering that a small amount of CO typically coexists with H2 in reforming gas, CO tolerance is a crucial trait for hydrogen fuel cell applications.[9] To evaluate this aspect, we conducted longterm electrocatalysis in H2-saturated 1.0 M KOH with 1000 ppm of CO. As illustrated in Figure 3i, commercial Pt/ C exhibits a significant decrease in activity, while Co1Ru1,n/ rGO maintains robust HOR activity without any noticeable decline, demonstrating exceptional CO tolerance.

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were conducted to gain further insights into the electrocatalytic mechanism of the alkaline HOR on Co1Ru1,n/rGO by investigating the surface structure of Co1Ru1,n, the frequency of OHad, and the reaction activity. The structural model before and after the embedding of Co single atoms was established based on the experimental results of symmetrybroken structures. By adjusting the position of Co atom in the lattice, Co single-atom embedded into the defect site can be achieved, thereby forming a unique electronic state at a single atomic site. Thus, the differential charge density distribution between the Ru nanoparticle and double single atoms site was calculated, as depicted in Figure 4a. The metal-metal interaction is observed between the Ru nanoparticles and Ru single atoms on the carrier, forming an effective active center. The embedding of the Co atom induces charge redistribution, thereby stabilizing the active center and adjusting the band structure. The projected density of states (PDOS) presented in Figure 4b further illustrates the improved OHBE. According to the d-band center (Ed) theory, a higher Ed compared to the Fermi level (Ef) leads to stronger binding between the catalyst and adsorbate.[29,30] The Ed analysis in Figure 4b indicates that,

*Figure 4.* (a) Differential charge density of Co1Ru1,n and Ru1,n, the yellow and blue zones represent the charge accumulation and dispersion, respectively. (b) Density of states for the different active sites in Co1Ru1,n and Ru1,n structures. (c) CO-stripping measurements on the synthesized catalysts in N2-saturated 1.0 M KOH solution. (d, e) Free energy of \*OH and H2O formation step and (f) the calculated ΔGOH\* and ΔGH2O\* values on Co1Ru1,n and Ru1,n. (g–h) In situ Raman spectra of interfacial water on Co1Ru1,n and Ru1,n in 1.0 M KOH. (i) Schematic representation of the alkaline HOR mechanism of Co1Ru1,n models.

compared to Ru1,n ( 1.628 eV), the incorporation of Co single atoms results in greater separation between Ed and Ef in Co1Ru1,n( 1.844 eV). The decline of the d-band center indicates that the antibonding states are occupied by additional electrons after Ru single-atom doping, which weakens the adsorption of reaction intermediates and is beneficial for the desorption of H2O.[29] The d-band center of the Co single-atom site is in closer proximity to the Fermi level compared to that of Ru single-atom site, indicating a stronger intermediate adsorption capability and suggesting a preference for OH adsorption. By CO-stripping measurements (Figure 4c), it is observed that the onset of the OHad peak for Co1Ru1,n/rGO occurs earlier, indicating stronger adsorption energy of OHBE for this catalyst.[12,31] In comparison to the other catalysts, the order of OHBE on the catalyst surfaces is as follows: Co1Ru1,n/rGO (0.74 V)*>* Pt/C (0.82 V) *>* Ru/rGO (0.86 V). Based on the experimental findings, it can be inferred that the enhancement of OHBE promotes the Volmer reaction.[32] Consequently, these results shed light on the mechanism underlying the exceptional electrocatalytic performance of Co1Ru1,n for alkaline HOR, due to its robust OHBE.

The Gibbs free energy of the reaction process was calculated based on the catalyst model to validate the experimental findings, and the corresponding results are presented in Figures 4d and 4e. It reveals that OH adsorption exhibits a higher propensity at the active site of Co1Ru1,n/rGO compared to that of Ru1,n. Enhanced OH adsorption during HOR promotes an accumulation of OHad species on the catalyst surface.[33] This enhancement of OHBE promotes the kinetics of the H2O(OH ) pathway and accelerates the Volmer step, particularly at high pH values.[34] The improved OHBE following Co-doping contributes to the enhancement of HOR activity of

15213757, 2024, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202319618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte*

Co1Ru1,n. [35,36] The calculation of energy barrier determined that the formation of water is the rate-determining step of the reaction (Figure S13). As presented in Figure 4e, the energy barrier for H2O formation on Ru1,n and Co1Ru1,n was calculated to be 0.93 and 0.55 eV, respectively. This indicates that the surface of Ru1,n is unfavorable for either OHad or H2O formation. However, the synergistic effect resulting from the introduction of Co single atoms enhances the adsorption of OH on the surface and accelerates the formation of H2O intermediates (Figure S14), lowering the energy barrier for Co1Ru1,n in alkaline HOR. The relationship between ΔGOH\*, ΔGH2O\* and Ed is shown in Figure 4f. The insertion of Co single atoms adjusted the band structure of Ru1,n, resulting in an overall decrease of d-band center of the system. This modification weakens the adsorption of intermediates, accelerates the rate-determining step (desorption of H2O), and ultimately leads to excellent HOR catalytic activity.

To provide additional supporting evidence, in situ Raman spectroscopy was employed to investigate the interfacial H2O on the catalyst surface (Figures 4g and 4h). The Raman spectral fitting analysis allows for the decomposition of the O H stretching band of H2O into various types of O H stretching vibrations. The low wavenumber corresponds to 4-coordinated H-bonded H2O, while the higher wave number corresponds to 2-coordinated Hbonded H2O.[33] The higher peak intensity at ~3500 cm <sup>1</sup> for Co1Ru1,n/rGO compared to Ru/rGO suggests that more active trihedral coordination H-bond H2O molecules are readily formed on the former, indicating a facilitated process of H2O formation.[37] Additionally, operando FT-IR spectra of Co1Ru1,n/rGO and Ru/rGO were collected in H2-saturated 1.0 M KOH solution, as shown in Figure S15, the intensity and frequency of infrared peaks exhibit significant changes in response to variations in potential, providing evidence that the H2O molecule peak observed via ATR-SEIRAS corresponds to interfacial H2O on the catalyst. The absorption peak in the infrared range at 2800–3800 cm <sup>1</sup> corresponds to the O H stretching mode (νO-H) of water.[38–40] Compared to Ru/rGO, Co1Ru1,n/rGO exhibits a more pronounced Stark effect, suggesting \*H2O molecules on the surface of Co1Ru1,n/rGO. The increase in the νO-H frequency corresponds to a decrease in the degree of hydrogen bonding, resulting in an enhanced mobility of interfacial H2O. Consequently, the Co1Ru1,n/rGO surface exhibits superior capability for dissociation of H2O, which is more likely to occur during the HOR process, aligning with the DFT calculation results. As shown in Figure 4i, the incorporation of Co atoms induces an electron redistribution around Ru, thereby modulating the adsorption behavior of H2O on the active site of the Co1Ru1,n/rGO surface. This rearrangement expedites the crucial Volmer step by significantly lowering the energy barrier for HOR.

In summary, we successfully created a parasitic dualsingle-atom hosted asymmetric ultra-small Ru nanoparticle catalysis system (Co1Ru1,n/rGO) through a straightforward solvent-thermal synthesis strategy. In this nanostructure system, Co atoms infiltrate the interior of Ru nanoparticles and disrupt the symmetric structure of Ru nanoparticles, leading to the formation of asymmetric interfaces and the rearrangement of electrons around Ru. The escaped Ru single atoms and the nanoparticles formed metal-metal interaction, which constitute effective active sites. The embedded Co atom induces electron rearrangement and alters the band structure of the Ru active sites, thereby enhancing the adsorption of OH at the catalyst surface and the catalytic efficiency. Furthermore, the presence of Co atoms also influences an overall decrease of d-band center, weakening the adsorption of key intermediate water at the reaction site, resulting in the acceleration of the Volmer step. Therefore, the dual-single-atom, as a parasite of Ru nanoparticle crystals, plays a pivotal role in enhancing the catalytic efficiency of the HOR in the Ru composite catalyst. This research provides valuable information for the design and construction of high-efficiency dual-single-atom system catalysts.

### *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22234005, 22075223, 22325101), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20222015), the State Key Laboratory of Advanced Technology for Materials Synthesis and Processing (Wuhan University of Technology) (2023-ZT-1). Young Academic Leaders of the Qing Lan Project of Jiangsu Province (SUJIAOSHIHAN [2022] No.29). We thank the BL14W1 station in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), 1 W1B station in the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for help with characterizations.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** dual-single-atom catalysts **·** hydrogen oxidation reaction **·** symmetry-breaking **·** parasitic **·** Ru nanoparticles

<sup>[1]</sup> H. Adabi, A. Shakouri, N. Ul Hassan, J. R. Varcoe, B. Zulevi, A. Serov, J. R. Regalbuto, W. E. Mustain, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00878-7)* **2021**, *6*, [834–843](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00878-7).

<sup>[2]</sup> S. Cao, T. Sun, J.-R. Li, Q.-Z. Li, C.-C. Hou, Q. Sun, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-5082-z) Res.* **2023**, *16*, [4365–4380.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-5082-z)

<sup>[3]</sup> F. Xiao, Q. Wang, G. Xu, X. Qin, I. Hwang, C. Sun, M. Liu, W. Hua, H. Wu, S. Zhu, J. Li, J. Wang, Y. Zhu, D. Wu, Z. Wei, M. Gu, K. Amine, M. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [503–512](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00796-1).

<sup>[4]</sup> L. Liu, Y. Liu, C. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [4985–4989.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b13694)

<sup>[5]</sup> J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z.-F. Ma, Q. Jia, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201708484) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [15594–15598](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201708484).

- [6] X. Chen, X. Wang, J. Le, S. Li, X. Wang, Y. Zhang, P. Radjenovic, Y. Zhao, Y. Wang, X. Lin, J. Dong, J. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 5289.
- [7] A. Majumdar, J. M. Deutch, R. Prasher, T. Griffin, *[Joule](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2021.07.007)* **2021**, *5*, [1905–1908.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2021.07.007)
- [8] Y. Liu, J. Ding, F. Li, X. Su, Q. Zhang, G. Guan, F. Hu, J. Zhang, Q. Wang, Y. Jiang, B. Liu, H. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2207114.
- [9] H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211854.
- [10] X. Mu, S. Liu, L. Chen, S. Mu, *Small Structures* **2023**, *4*, 2200281.
- [11] X. Wang, Y. Tong, W. Feng, P. Liu, X. Li, Y. Cui, T. Cai, L. Zhao, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 3767.
- [12] a) Y. Hu, T. Chao, Y. Li, P. Liu, T. Zhao, G. Yu, C. Chen, X. Liang, H. Jin, S. Niu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**. *62*, e202308800; b) R. Li, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**. *15*, 6888–6923.
- [13] X. Song, X.-G. Zhang, Y.-L. Deng, Z.-A. Nan, W. Song, Y. Wang, L. Lv, Q. Jiang, X. Jin, Y. Zheng, M. Chen, Z. Xie, J.-F. Li, Z.-Q. Tian, F. R. Fan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [12717–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02604) [12725.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02604)
- [14] W.-H. Li, J. Yang, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202213318.
- [15] a) L. Liu, A. Corma, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, [4855–4933](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00733); b) T. Gan, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2023**, doi: [10.1007/s12274-023-5700-](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5700-4) [4.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5700-4)
- [16] a) S. Liu, H. Li, J. Zhong, K. Xu, G. Wu, C. Liu, B. Zhou, Y. Yan, L. Li, W. Cha, K. Chang, Y. Li, J. Lu, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eadd6421; b) L. Wang, J. Wu, S. Wang, H. Liu, Y. Wang, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2023**, doi: [10.1007/s12274-023-6037-8;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-6037-8) c) X. Zheng, J. Yang, P. Li, Z. Jiang, P. Zhu, Q. Wang, J. Wu, E. Zhang, W. Sun, S. Dou, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**. *62*, e202217449.
- [17] C. Xie, D. Yan, H. Li, S. Du, W. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, R. Chen, S. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, [11082–11098](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03034).
- [18] L. Liu, A. Corma, *Trends Chem.* **2020**, *2*, [383–400.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trechm.2020.02.003)
- [19] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, W. Chen, D. He, Y. He, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4958.
- [20] Y. Li, C. Yang, J. Yue, H. Cong, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2211586.
- [21] X. Zhang, L. Xia, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208821.
- [22] K. Shah, R. Dai, M. Mateen, Z. Hassan, Z. Zhuang, C. Liu, M. Israr, W.-C. Cheong, B. Hu, R. Tu, C. Zhang, X. Chen, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202114951.
- [23] X. Lyu, X. Gu, G. Li, H. Chen, H. Hou, J. Hu, *ChemCatChem* **2022**, *14*, e202201192.

- [24] Y. Cui, Z. Xu, D. Chen, T. Li, H. Yang, X. Mu, X. Gu, H. Zhou, S. Liu, S. Mu, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.106579)* **2021**, *90*, 106579.
- [25] X. Zheng, J. Yang, Z. Xu, Q. Wang, J. Wu, E. Zhang, S. Dou, W. Sun, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202205946.
- [26] D. Feng, P. Wang, R. Qin, W. Shi, L. Gong, J. Zhu, Q. Ma, L. Chen, J. Yu, S. Liu, S. Mu, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2300342.
- [27] Q. Wang, H. Wang, H. Cao, C.-W. Tung, W. Liu, S. Hung, W. Wang, C. Zhu, Z. Zhang, W. Cai, Y. Cheng, H. B. Tao, H. M. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Li, H. B. Yang, Y. Huang, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**. *6*, 916–926.
- [28] W. Ni, J. L. Meibom, N. U. Hassan, M. Chang, Y.-C. Chu, A. Krammer, S. Sun, Y. Zheng, L. Bai, W. Ma, S. Lee, S. Jin, J. S. Luterbacher, A. Schüler, H. M. Chen, W. E. Mustain, X. Hu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, [773–783](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-023-01007-1).
- [29] J. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, J. Rossmeisl, C. H. Christensen, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.121) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.121)* **2009**, *1*, 37–46.
- [30] X. Wang, S. Li, Z. Yuan, Y. Sun, Z. Tang, X. Gao, H. Zhang, J. Li, S. Wang, D. Yang, J. Xie, Z. Yang, Y.-M. Yan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202303794.
- [31] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE02564D) Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177–181.
- [32] Y. Duan, Z. Yu, L. Yang, L. Zheng, C. Zhang, X. Yang, F. Gao, X. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, H. Ding, C. Gu, X. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J. Zhu, M. Gao, S. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789.
- [33] Y. Wang, S. Zheng, W. Yang, R. Zhou, Q. He, P. Radjenovic, J. Dong, S. Li, J. Zheng, Z. Yang, G. Attard, F. Pan, Z. Tian, J. Li, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-04068-z)* **2021**, *600*, 81–85.
- [34] Y. Men, X. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. Ge, S. Jia, L. Li, J. Wang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01448) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [12661–12672](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01448).
- [35] T. Tang, X. Liu, X. Luo, Z. Xue, H.-R. Pan, J. Fu, Z. Yao, Z. Jiang, Z. Lyu, L. Zheng, D. Su, J. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. Hu, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02487) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [13805–13815.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02487)
- [36] L. Su, J. Chen, F. Yang, P. Li, Y. Jin, W. Luo, S. Chen, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c01164) Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [12051–12058.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c01164)
- [37] C. Yang, Y. Li, J. Yue, H. Cong, W. Luo, *Chem. Sci.* **2023**,*14*, 6289–6294.
- [38] Q. Sun, N. Oliveira, S. Kwon, S. Tyukhtenko, J. Guo, N. Myrthil, S. Lopez, I. Kendrick, S. Mukerjee, L. Ma, S. Ehrlich, J. Li, W. Goddard, Y. Yan, Q. Jia, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-023-01302-y)* **2023**, *8*, 859– [869](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-023-01302-y).
- [39] S. Zhu, X. Qin, Y. Yao, M. Shao, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c01104) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [8748–8754](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c01104).
- [40] M. Wang, K. Sun, W. Mi, C. Feng, Z. Guan, Y. Liu, Y. Pan, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, [10771–10780](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c02770).

Manuscript received: December 19, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: January 29, 2024 Version of record online: February 13, 2024