---
source: Qiu 等 - 2023 - 2D MOF‐assisted Pyrolysis‐displacement‐alloying Synthesis of High‐entropy Alloy Nanoparticles Librar.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.778s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:15:37.350552Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

*Electrocatalysis*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202306881 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202306881](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202306881)

# **2D MOF-assisted Pyrolysis-displacement-alloying Synthesis of Highentropy Alloy Nanoparticles Library for Efficient Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Oxidation**

*Ziming Qiu, Yong Li, Yidan Gao, Zhenyang Meng, Yangyang Sun, Yang Bai, Nian-Tzu Suen, Hsiao-Chien Chen, [Yecan](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-7446-2441) Pi,\* and [Huan](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5319-0480) Pang\**

**Abstract:** Multimetallic alloy nanoparticles (NPs) have received considerable attention in various applications due to their compositional variability and exceptional properties. However, the complexity of both the general synthesis and structure–activity relationships remain the long-standing challenges in this field. Herein, we report a versatile 2D MOF-assisted pyrolysis-displacementalloying route to successfully synthesize a series of binary, ternary and even high-entropy NPs that are uniformly dispersed on porous nitrogen-doped carbon nanosheets (PNC NSs). As a proof of utility, the obtained Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs exhibits apparent hydrogen oxidation activity and durability with a recordhigh mass specific kinetic current of 1.84 Amg <sup>1</sup> at the overpotential of 50 mV, which is approximately 11.5 times higher than that of the Pt benchmark. Both experimental and theoretical studies reveal that the addition of Pt engenders a phase transition in CoRu alloys from hexagonal close-packed (*hcp*) to facecentered cubic (*fcc*) structure. The elevated reactivity of the resulted ternary alloy can be attributed to the optimized adsorption of hydrogen intermediate and the decreased reaction barrier for water formation. This study opens a new avenue for the development of highly efficient alloy NPs with various compositions and functions.

## *Introduction*

Multimetallic alloy nanoparticles (NPs), which are composed of two or more different metal elements, have shown great potential for catalytic applications owing to their compositional tunability and exceptional properties.[1] By introducing inexpensive transition metal components into the precious metals with good performance, the utilization of precious metals can be increased, thereby greatly reducing the cost of catalysts.[2] More interestingly, in many cases, due to the alloy effect of constituent metal species, they can exhibit novel catalytic properties that are not present in their respective parental metal species.[3] Significant progress has been made in multimetallic alloys electrocatalysts in the past few years, however, the synthesis method of this series of nanocomposites using conventional wet chemical methods has been a long-standing challenge.[4] First, it is not easy to simultaneously control the nucleation and growth of two or more distinct metals due to their different thermodynamic and kinetic characteristics, which easily leads to inhomogeneous products.[5] Although many syntheses of specific binary and ternary alloy NPs have been reported, they are usually difficult to directly extend their methods/conditions to the synthesis of other multimetallic alloy NPs with different compositions.[6] Second, the introduction of organic protective agents remains imperative in the preparation of dispersed NPs, which can limit the exposure of active sites and thus reduce the catalytic performance. In addition, the low utilization of metal precursors (especially precious metals), the cumbersome loading process and the difficulty of large-scale production have also significantly hampered the practical application of multimetallic alloy NPs. In this sense, the development of an efficient, versatile and low-cost approach for the scaleable synthesis of multimetallic alloy NPs with tailored compositions is of great importance for the development of advanced electrocatalysts.[7]

Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), a crucial type of crystalline porous materials constructed by coordinating organic molecules and metal ions, have emerged as a rapidly

[\*] Z. Qiu, Y. Li, Y. Gao, Z. Meng, Dr. Y. Sun, Prof. N.-T. Suen, Dr. Y. Pi, Prof. H. Pang School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Yangzhou University

225009 Yangzhou, Jiangsu, (P. R. China) E-mail: piyecan@yzu.edu.cn panghuan@yzu.edu.cn

Dr. Y. Bai School of Pharmacy, Changzhou University 213164 Changzhou, Jiangsu, (P. R. China)

and

State Key Laboratory of Coordination Chemistry, Nanjing University 210023 Nanjing, Jiangsu, (P. R. China)

Prof. H.-C. Chen

Center for Reliability Science and Technologies, Chang Gung University; Kidney Research Center, Department of Nephrology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital Linkou, 333 Taoyuan (Taiwan)

growing research field in the past two decades.[8] Other than their direct use, MOFs can also be used as sacrificial templates to derive carbon-supported corresponding metal NPs by applying simple thermal treatments. Benefiting from the diversity of metal components in MOFs and the facile synthesis protocols of some certain established MOFs, this method holds promise for the low-cost and scaleable preparation of supported metal NPs.[9] Additionally, compared to other carbonaceous materials, MOF-derived carbons typically exhibit controllable micro/nano morphologies and porous architectures, especially for some low-dimensional MOF precursors such as nanowires or nanosheets, which facilitate the formation of well-exposed nanoparticles and thus improve catalytic performance.[10] However, the preparation of multimetallic alloy NPs from multi-component MOFs remains a formidable task, arising from the difficulty of ensuring a homogeneous distribution of the different metal components during the pyrolysis process. Furthermore, the challenging synthesis of platinum group metal-based MOFs represents another hindrance for the broad application of this strategy in catalysis.

To address the limitations of the traditional direct pyrolysis approach of MOF in the synthesis of multimetallic alloy NPs, we herein select uniform two dimensional (2D) MOF nanosheets as the initial template, and combined with a galvanic displacement process, to achieve the efficient and versatile synthesis of ultrafine multimetallic alloy NPs. By employing this 2D MOF-assisted pyrolysis-displacementalloying (PDA) route, we have successfully prepared various multimetallic alloy NPs with up to six different metal elements. The obtained NPs have a narrow size distribution and are uniformly dispersed on the porous nitrogen-doped carbon nanosheets (PNC NSs). In addition, this synthesis method demonstrates the utilization efficiency of metal precursors is around 90% and allows facile scale-up of production, making it a promising strategy for the costeffective and efficient preparation of multimetallic alloy catalysts (Figures S1, S2). As a proof of concept, we synthesized ternary CoRuPt alloy NPs as efficient multifunctional electrocatalyst for hydrogen oxidation and evolution reactions (HOR and HER). Specifically, the HOR mass activity and specific activity of the optimized Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/ PNC NSs in 0.1 M KOH were determined to be 11.5 and 7.9 times over that of commercial Pt/C, respectively. Excellent stability and resistance to CO poisoning of the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs were also demonstrated. Additionally, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs demonstrate remarkable HER activity with an overpotential of only 23 mV to achieve the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in alkaline media, surpassing that of commercial Pt/C and the most of recently reported electrocatalysts. Further studies revealed that the introduction of Pt induces the phase transition of CoRu alloy from hexagonal close-packed (*hcp*) to face-centered cubic (*fcc*) structure, resulting in the optimized adsorption of reaction intermediates, and ultimately promoting its exceptional HOR/HER activities in alkaline media.

### *Results and Discussion*

The 2D MOF-assisted PDA route for the preparation of PNC NSs supported multimetallic alloy NPs is illustrated in Scheme 1. First, the pristine ZIF-67 nanosheets were synthesized through a solvothermal method, followed by pyrolysis under a nitrogen atmosphere to form the PNC NSs supported Co NPs (Co/PNC NSs) (Figure S3). The metal Co

*Scheme 1.* Schematic illustration of the synthesis process of Co M alloy/PNC NSs.

*Angewandte*

loading in Co/PNC NSs was determined to be approximately 60 wt% by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES). Second, spontaneous galvanic displacement was performed with obtained Co NPs and desired metal precursors to obtain Co M multimetallic NPs (intermediate state). In this process, the Co NPs serve as a sacrificial template, while metal cations with a more positive redox potential are thermodynamically favored to"steal" electrons from the metallic Co and deposited on the surface of the NPs (Table S1).[11] Third, the resulting product is subjected to heat treatment under a nitrogen atmosphere, aiming at promoting the complete alloying of different metal components, to obtain the final multimetallic alloy NPs. More experimental details have been provided in the Supporting Information.

Significantly, the proposed synthesis strategy is robust and capable of fabricating the PNC NSs supported alloy NPs library by simply introducing the desired metal precursors at the galvanic displacement process. We demonstrate the versatility by synthesizing a series of binary (CoRu, CoPt, CoIr, CoRh, and CoPd), and ternary (CoRuPt, CoPtPd) alloy NPs, which were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS). Figure 1 shows the detailed characterizations for the PNC NSs supported alloy NPs library. In all cases, the square nanosheet shape of the MOF precursor can be well maintained, and the obtained NPs possess size uniformity and are evenly dispersed on the PNC NSs support (Figures S4, S5). Further analyses of the HRTEM, XRD, and EDS element mappings confirm the formation of alloy phases. It should be emphasized that we have also successfully synthesized highentropy alloy NPs composed of up to six different metal elements (CoRuPtIrRhPd), which further demonstrates the versatility of this synthesis method (Figure 1af–aj, Figure S6). For comparison, we have attempted to synthesize alloy NPs via the PDA route using MOF nanoparticles as the initial template. As a result, phase-separated product was finally obtained, demonstrating the importance of nanosheet with a high surface-to-volume ratio in the synthesis. It can facilitate the exposure of NPs and thus promote the synthesis process (Figure S7).

In recent years, Ru has emerged as a promising alternative to the conventional Pt catalyst for hydrogen electrode reactions, owing to its cost-effectiveness and decent catalytic activity. However, the too strong binding between Ru and hydrogen intermediate is acknowledged as a crucial factor impeding their catalytic activity for HOR and HER. Alloying with other metals has demonstrated efficacy in regulating the activity of monometallic Ru catalysts. Nevertheless, more efforts are necessary to further elucidate the impact of the composition and crystal phase of Ru-based alloys on their catalytic performance.[3,4,12] In view of this, we first prepared a series of binary CoxRu1-x/PNC NSs with different Co/Ru atomic ratios via the PDA route described above (Figure 1a–e, Figures S8–S10, Table S2). Interestingly, compared with the pristine *fcc* phase of Co/ PNC NSs, CoxRu1-x/PNC NSs with *hcp* phase was obtained even a small amount of Ru was introduced. Furthermore, it was found that the phase transform of Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs from pristine *hcp* phase into *fcc* phase could be induced by just introducing a small amount of Pt (Figures S11–13, Table S3).

Taking Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs as an example, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and TEM characterizations show that the obtained product has a uniform square nanosheet profile, which are uniformly covered with highly dispersed NPs with an average diameter of ~1.5 nm (Figure 2a–c). EDS element mappings demonstrate that Co, Ru, Pt, C and N are uniformly distributed on the NSs (Figure 2d). Furthermore, the elemental distribution analysis of an individual NP in the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs indicate that Co, Ru, and Pt were uniformly distributed throughout the NP (Figure 2e). HRTEM and XRD analysis further confirm that the obtained ternary NPs have an *fcc* alloy phase structure (Figure 2f–g). As shown in the XRD pattern, Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs display three characteristic diffraction peaks at 2θ=40°, 46.6°, and 68.1°, which can be assigned to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of the *fcc* alloy, respectively. In addition, the presence of a weak diffraction peak at 2θ=43.9° suggests that a very small amount of the *hcp* phase remains in the product. The overall Co/Ru/Pt composition was measured to be 19.1/70.7/10.2 by TEM-EDS, which is consistent with the result of inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) (Figure 2h). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) is employed to analyze the surface chemical state of the obtained samples (Figure 2i, Figure S14). Compared with the monometallic Co/PNC NSs, the Co<sup>0</sup> peaks of Co0.2Ru0.8/ PNC NSs and Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs shift toward higher binding energy, indicating the electron transfer from Co atoms to Ru or Pt atoms in the alloy. Meanwhile, the Ru0 peak of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs shifts to higher binding energy whilst the Pt<sup>0</sup> peak moves to lower binding energy compared with that of bimetallic Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs and Co0.2Pt0.8/PNC NSs, respectively. These results clearly demonstrate the existence of distinct electronic interactions between the metal components in the alloy NPs.

X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) were measured to further identify the electronic state and local coordination environment of different samples (Figures S15–20). As shown in Figure 2j, the absorption edge energy of Ru K-edge in Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs shifted to higher value compared with that of Ru foil and Co0.2Ru0.8/ PNC NSs, implying the electron transfer from Ru to Pt. This conclusion is also confirmed by the Pt L3-edge XANES spectra analysis, which is in accordance with the XPS results. Furthermore, the Fourier transform (FT) and wavelet transform (WT) were performed on the EXAFS spectrum to provide local coordination structure information. As shown in Figure 2k, only Ru M (M=Co or Pt) bond can be detected in the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs, with an average bond length of 2.675 Å. This value is slightly longer than that of Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs (2.670 Å) and Ru foil (2.673 Å). Through the fitting of the Ru K-edge EXAFS data, the coordination number (CN) of the Ru M bond in

*Figure 1.* Characterizations of Co M/PNC NSs. From top to bottom: CoRu/PNC NSs, CoPt/PNC NSs, CoIr/PNC NSs, CoRh/PNC NSs, CoPd/PNC NSs, CoPtPd/PNC NSs and CoRuPtIrRhPd/PNC NSs. (a, f, k, p, u, z, af) TEM images. (b, g, l, q, v, ab, ag) Magnified TEM images. (c, h, m, r, w, ac, ah) HRTEM images. (d, i, n, s, x, ad, ai) XRD patterns. (e, j, o, t, y, ae, aj) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding EDS elemental mappings.

*Figure 2.* Characterizations of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs. (a) SEM image, (b, c) TEM images of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs. Inset in (c): the corresponding particle size distribution. (d, e) EDS elemental mappings and line scanning analysis, (f) HRTEM image, (g) XRD and (h) TEM-EDS patterns of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs. (i) Ru 3p XPS spectra, Ru K-edge (j) XANES spectra and (k) FT-EXAFS spectra for Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs and references.

Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs and Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs was determined to be 7.5 and 5.8, respectively, which are obviously lower than that of Ru foil (CN=12) and can be attributed to their small particle size (Table S4). Moreover, the Co Kedge EXAFS analysis reveals the presence of Co N bonds in addition to the metal bonds in both Co/PNC NSs, Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs and Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs, which is believed to originate from the generation of Co single atoms during the pyrolysis of the MOF precursor.

To demonstrate the role of the component regulationinduced alloy phase engineering in the electrocatalysis, we first evaluated the HOR performance of obtained Ru-based alloy NPs in a H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte using the rotating disk electrode (RDE) method. (Figures S21, S22). The commercial Pt/C and Ru/C catalysts were also investigated at the same condition for comparison. HOR polarization curves of different catalysts obtained at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm are shown in Figure 3a. It can be seen clearly that the Ru/C possesses weak anodic current density of HOR, while the binary Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs shows obviously improved current density that even approaching the state-of-the-art Pt/C catalyst. More importantly, the ternary Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs shows a sharply increased anode current, which is far higher than that of Ru/C and even outperforms the Pt/C catalyst, indicating the excellent catalytic performance for alkaline HOR. In addition, the Ru/C and Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs show obviously decline of HOR activity at high potentials. In contrast, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs is tolerant of high anodic potentials, which can maintain a stable HOR current density at potentials up to 0.5 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), suggesting its good antioxidant capacity.[13] We have also evaluated the HOR activity of ternary Co0.2Ru0.8-xPtx/PNC NSs catalysts with different compositions, among which Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs exhibited the highest catalytic activity. We believe that the activity variation of the ternary catalysts can be attributed to the variations in both the relative abundance and intrinsic activity of the Ru and Pt sites (Figure S22). As shown in Figure 3b, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs shows the highest kinetic current density (*J*k) among other tested catalysts, further proving its excellent catalytic kinetics for HOR. Figure 3c shows the polarization curves of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/ PNC NSs at different rotational speeds from 400 to 2500 rpm. According to the Koutecky–Levich equation, a slope of 4.52 cm2mA <sup>1</sup> s 1/2 is obtained, which is well consistent with the theoretical value (4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA <sup>1</sup> s 1/2) for two-electron transfer HOR process. Furthermore, the exchange current density (*j*0) of the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs is determined to be 4.28 mAcm <sup>2</sup> by linear fitting of the micropolarized region, which compares favorably to other tested catalysts (Figure 3d, Figure S23). To further compare

*Figure 3.* HOR performance evaluation of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs and comparison catalysts. (a) Polarization curves at 1600 rpm in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. (b) Tafel plots. (c) Polarization curves of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs at different electrode rotation speeds, inset shows the corresponding Koutecky–Levich plot. (d) Micropolarized regions, (e) normalized mass activity and specific activity at an overpotential of 50 mV of different catalysts. (f) Polarization curves of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs and commercial Pt/C in 1000 ppm CO/H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. (g) HOR polarization curves for Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs before and after 20000 cycles of ADT. (h) Relative current-time chronoamperometry responses of different catalysts at 0.1 V vs. RHE.

the intrinsic activity of different catalysts, the specific activities (*J*SA) and mass activities (*J*MA) were calculated by normalizing the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) and the mass of platinum group metals (PGMs), respectively (Figure S24). As shown in Figure 3e, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs exhibits the highest *J*SA and *J*MA as compared with Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs, Co0.2Pt0.8/PNC NSs, Ru/C and Pt/C. Specifically, the *J*MA of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs (1.84 AmgPGM <sup>1</sup> ) is 11.5 times that of the commercial Pt/C (0.16 AmgPGM <sup>1</sup> ), indicating that the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs is a promising electrocatalyst toward alkaline HOR (Table S5).

CO poisoning of traditional Pt-based HOR catalysts is a long-standing problem in fuel cells, the development of a CO-tolerant catalyst is important for the application of this technology.[14] We therefore examined the HOR activity ofthe Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs catalyst in H2 gas containing CO (1,000 ppm)-saturated 0.1 M KOH. As shown in Figure 3f, a rapid decline of the HOR current density on Pt/C catalyst was detected compared with the initial state, suggesting the serious poisoning of the active sites by CO. In contrast, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs showed a small decrease of HOR current density under the same condition, indicating the good tolerance to CO. Moreover, a slight attenuation of HOR performance was observed after 20000 cycles in the accelerated durability test (ADT) (Figure 3g, Figure S25). In addition, the stability of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs was also evaluated by performing the chronoamperometry method at an overpotential of 100 mV. As shown in Figure 3h, a 14.2% decay was observed for Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/ PNC NSs after 3600 s of continuous operation. Under the same condition, however, the HOR activities of commercial Pt/C decrease by 47.1%, and the commercial Ru/C catalyst completely lost its activity before 2700 s. These results suggest the promising stability of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs for alkaline HOR (Figure S26).

The attractive HOR performance of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs prompted us to further probe its activity for HER, which is the reverse reaction of HOR. The experiments were conducted in N2-saturated 1 M KOH electrolyte. As shown in Figure 4a, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs exhibits remarkable HER activity with a small overpotential of

*Figure 4.* Electrocatalysis of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs for water splitting in 1 M KOH. (a) HER polarization curves and (b) Tafel plots of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs and comparison catalysts. (c) Polarization curves of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1 j jCo0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1 O and Pt/C j jRuO2 water splitting systems. (d) Comparison of the cell voltages to achieve 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> among different water splitting systems. (e) Chronopotentiometry stability measurements of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1 j jCo0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1 O and Pt/C j jRuO2 water splitting systems at 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> .

23 mV to achieve the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is obviously lower than those of Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs, Co0.2Pt0.8/PNC NSs and commercial Ru/C, Pt/C (Figures S27, S28). In addition, Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs shows the smallest Tafel slope (32.6 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) among other tested catalysts, implying its faster kinetics for alkaline HER (Figure 4b, Table S6). Not only that, Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs are expected to serve as a "universally compatible" electrocatalyst, offering excellent hydrogen electrocatalysis performance over the entire pH range (Figures S29, S30). Additionally, to distinguish the actual contribution of the Co single atom in electrocatalysis, poisoning experiments were conducted according to previous reports.[15] The results clearly suggest that the alloy NPs, rather than the Co single atom in the PNCs support, are the main active sites for HOR and HER (Figures S31, S32). Since Ru oxide is usually used as a benchmark catalyst for oxygen evolution reaction (OER), we have also evaluated the OER performance of the obtained Ru-based alloy catalyst. Before that, the pristine sample was calcined in air atmosphere to form the oxidized surface (denoted as Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs O) (Figure S33). As results, Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs O shows the overpotential of only 234 mV at a current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , exceeding that of commercial RuO2 (313 mV) (Figure S34). Afterward, the Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs cathode and Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs O anode were assembled into a water splitting electrolyzer. As shown in Figure 4c, Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs j jCo0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs O couple shows a cell voltage of 1.57 V to achieve the current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is much lower than that of Pt/C j jRuO2 couple (1.67 V) and is among the most efficient electrocatalysts reported for overall water splitting (Figure 4d, Table S7). Moreover, it was observed that the

Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs j jCo0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs O couple maintained its high activity at a current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for more than 100 h, whereas commercial Pt/ C j jRuO2 couple was completely deactivated within 20 h under the same test condition. These results suggest that Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs can serve as a highly active and stable catalyst for water splitting (Figure 4e).

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were employed to gain insights into the enhanced electrocatalytic performance of the alloy catalyst. The formation energy results reveal that the most stable phases of RuCo and RuCoPt alloys are *hcp* and *fcc* structures, respectively, which is consistent with the experimental results (Figure 5a, Figure S35). To this end, the RuCo (001) (*hcp* structure) and RuCoPt (111) (*fcc* structure) facets are chosen as the computing models of Co0.2Ru0.8/PNC NSs and Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/ PNC NSs, respectively (Figure S36). As shown in Figure 5b, the d-band center of RuCo ( 1.61 eV) is farther from the Fermi level (EF) compared to that of Ru ( 1.46 eV), while the d-band center of RuCoPt ( 1.57 eV) is located between the them. This result implies that alloying effect can affect the delectron structure of Ru atoms, which is usually closely related to the adsorption strength of transition metals and reaction intermediates. To further reveal the nature of the high catalytic activity of ternary alloys, the Gibbs free energy profiles for the elementary steps of HER/HOR were simulated on different surface models. As shown in Figure 5c, the hydrogen binding free energy (~GH\*) of Ru, RuCo and RuCoPt were calculated to be 0.44 eV, 0.30 eV and 0.16 eV, respectively. This evidences that alloy effect weakens the adsorption of hydrogen intermediate on Ru, RuCoPt with a <sup>~</sup>GH\* closer to the ideal value (~GH\*=0) will contribute to the highly efficient activity for

*Figure 5.* (a) Schematic diagram for the composition-induced phase transitions of Ru-based alloy. (b) The PDOSs of Ru sites in Ru (001), RuCo(001), and RuCoPt (111). The Fermi level is set to zero. The corresponding d-band centers are marked with white lines. Gibbs free energy profiles for (c) hydrogen adsorption (~GH\*) and (d) water formation on different surface models.

both HOR and HER in the experiment. Except for <sup>~</sup>GH\*, a growing number of studies have also indicated that the reaction between surface adsorbed \*OH and \*H to form H2O is also a key step in alkaline HOR.[16] Therefore, we investigated the reaction kinetics by exploring the reaction barrier of water formation. As shown in Figure 5d, the calculated energy barrier for water formation on RuCoPt is lower than that of RuCo and Ru, implying its facilitated reaction kinetics for alkaline HOR. Overall, these calculations confirm that the RuCoPt alloy with *fcc* structure offers optimized adsorption of hydrogen intermediate and decreases the reaction barrier for water formation, which strongly support our experimental observations.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we have reported an efficient and versatile 2D MOF-assisted PDA synthesis route to successfully prepare a series of highly dispersed binary, ternary and even highentropy alloy NPs loaded on PNC NSs. The resulting NPs exhibit uniformity and small size, and their composition can be conveniently adjusted. As a proof of concept, the synthesized Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs is evaluated as a catalyst to perform the HOR and water splitting catalysis, which exhibits excellent activity, stability and resistance to CO poisoning over commercial Pt/C catalysts. In particular, the HOR mass activity of Co0.2Ru0.7Pt0.1/PNC NSs reaches 1.84 Amg <sup>1</sup> at 0.05 V vs. RHE in 0.1 M KOH, which is about 11.5 times over that of commercial Pt/C. DFT calculations reveal that the composition-induced phase transformation results in a significant optimization of the adsorption of reaction intermediates by the ternary alloy, which ultimately boosts its catalytic performance. This work provides an attractive synthesis method to construct highperformance multimetallic nanomaterials for various applications.

## *Acknowledgements*

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22205196, U1904215), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20210790), and the start-up funding from Yangzhou University. This work was also supported by the Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education) in Nankai University.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Alloy Nanoparticles **·** Electrocatalysis **·** General Synthesis **·** Metal-Organic Framework Nanosheet **·** Ultrafine

[1] a) S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z.-P. Wu, D. Luan, X. W. Lou, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202106547) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19068; b) Y. Pi, Q. Shao, P. Wang, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, [1700886;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201700886) c) T. Zhu, J. Huang, B. Huang, N. Zhang, S. Liu, Q. Yao, S.-C. Haw, Y.-C. Chang, C.-W. Pao, J.-M. Chen, Q. Shao, Z. Hu, Y. Ma, X. Huang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, [2002860](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202002860); d) Y. Yao, Z. Huang, P. Xie, S. D. Lacey, R. J. Jacob, H. Xie, F.

15213757, 2023, 33, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202306881 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

## *Forschungsartikel*

- Chen, A. Nie, T. Pu, M. Rehwoldt, D. Yu, M. R. Zachariah, C. Wang, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, J. Li, L. Hu, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aan5412)* **2018**, *359*, [1489–1494.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aan5412)
- [2] a) Y. Xue, L. Shi, X. Liu, J. Fang, X. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651; b) Q. Yao, B. Huang, N. Zhang, M. Sun, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908092) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [13983–13988.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908092)
- [3] X. Tan, S. Geng, Y. Ji, Q. Shao, T. Zhu, P. Wang, Y. Li, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, [2002857](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202002857).
- [4] L. Li, C. Liu, S. Liu, J. Wang, J. Han, T.-S. Chan, Y. Li, Z. Hu, Q. Shao, Q. Zhang, X. Huang, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, [14885–](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c05776) [14894.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c05776)
- [5] Q. Hu, K. Gao, X. Wang, H. Zheng, J. Cao, L. Mi, Q. Huo, H. Yang, J. Liu, C. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3958.
- [6] a) Y. Pi, Q. Shao, J. Wang, B. Huang, Z. Hu, C.-T. Chen, C.- W. Pao, X. Duan, X. Huang, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.106251)* **2021**, *88*, 106251; b) Z.-Y. Yu, Y. Duan, Y. Kong, X.-L. Zhang, X.-Y. Feng, Y. Chen, H. Wang, X. Yu, T. Ma, X. Zheng, J. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, S.-H. Yu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [13163–13173.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c02989)
- [7] C.-L. Yang, L.-N. Wang, P. Yin, J. Liu, M.-X. Chen, Q.-Q. Yan, Z.-S. Wang, S.-L. Xu, S.-Q. Chu, C. Cui, H. Ju, J. Zhu, Y. Lin, J. Shui, H.-W. Liang, *Science* **2021**, *374*, [459–464.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abj9980)
- [8] Z. Zhuang, Y. Wang, C.-Q. Xu, S. Liu, C. Chen, Q. Peng, Z. Zhuang, H. Xiao, Y. Pan, S. Lu, R. Yu, W.-C. Cheong, X. Cao, K. Wu, K. Sun, Y. Wang, D. Wang, J. Li, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4875.
- [9] a) T. Chen, F. Wang, S. Cao, Y. Bai, S. Zheng, W. Li, S. Zhang, S.-X. Hu, H. Pang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, [2201779](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202201779); b) M. Du, P. Geng, C. Pei, X. Jiang, Y. Shan, W. Hu, L. Ni, H. Pang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209350; c) M. Wang, Y. Xu, C.-K. Peng, S.-Y. Chen, Y.-G. Lin, Z. Hu, L. Sun, S. Ding, C.-W. Pao, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [16512–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c06006) [16518;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c06006) d) L. Tao, M. Sun, Y. Zhou, M. Luo, F. Lv, M. Li, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, B. Huang, S. Guo, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03544) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [10582–10590.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03544)

- [10] L. Liang, H. Jin, H. Zhou, B. Liu, C. Hu, D. Chen, Z. Wang, Z. Hu, Y. Zhao, H.-W. Li, D. He, S. Mu, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.106221)* **2021**, *88*, [106221](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.106221).
- [11] S. M. Alia, Y. S. Yan, B. S. Pivovar, *Catal. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CY00736K)* **2014**, *4*, [3589–3600](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CY00736K).
- [12] a) F. Søndergaard-Pedersen, H. Lakhotiya, E. D. Bøjesen, M. Bondesgaard, M. Myekhlai, T. M. Benedetti, J. J. Gooding, R. D. Tilley, B. B. Iversen, *Catal. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY00177B)* **2022**, *12*, 3606– [3613](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY00177B); b) X. Wang, Y. Zhu, A. Vasileff, Y. Jiao, S. Chen, L. Song, B. Zheng, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b00454) Lett.* **2018**, *3*, [1198–1204](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b00454).
- [13] a) Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, [454–462;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-0446-9) b) X. Yang, B. Ouyang, P. Shen, Y. Sun, Y. Yang, Y. Gao, E. Kan, C. Li, K. Xu, Y. Xie, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00793) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [11138–11147.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00793)
- [14] a) H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202211854>; b) L. Cao, W. Liu, Q. Luo, R. Yin, B. Wang, J. Weissenrieder, M. Soldemo, H. Yan, Y. Lin, Z. Sun, C. Ma, W. Zhang, S. Chen, H. Wang, Q. Guan, T. Yao, S. Wei, J. Yang, J. Lu, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0869-5)* **2019**, *565*, [631–635](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0869-5).
- [15] P. Su, W. Pei, X. Wang, Y. Ma, Q. Jiang, J. Liang, S. Zhou, J. Zhao, J. Liu, G. Q. Lu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202103557) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 16044– [16050](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202103557).
- [16] a) L. Han, P. Ou, W. Liu, X. Wang, H.-T. Wang, R. Zhang, C.- W. Pao, X. Liu, W.-F. Pong, J. Song, Z. Zhuang, M. V. Mirkin, J. Luo, H. L. Xin, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabm3779; b) J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, [3442–3448.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00364)

Manuscript received: May 16, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: June 30, 2023 Version of record online: July 11, 2023