---
source: Ren 等 - 2025 - Carbon‐Encapsulated Single‐Atom Platinum Nickel Alloy for Efficient and Durable Alkaline Hydrogen Ox.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 52.391s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:17:44.547105Z
---

Check for updates

# Carbon-Encapsulated Single-Atom Platinum Nickel Alloy for Efficient and Durable Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Through Enhanced Charge Polarization

Huanwei Ren, Wanqing Yu, Maoyuan Lv, Jie Gao, Hao Hu, Mengdi Wang, Xuejing Cui, Jing Liu,\* and Luhua Jiang\*

Developing efficient and stable non-noble metal electrocatalysts for fuel cells is pivotal yet challenging. Herein, a dual-modulation strategy by integrating a single-atom alloy (SAA) core with carbon encapsulation to fabricate an advanced NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC catalyst is proposed, which exhibits an impressive specific activity of 82.0  $\mu\text{A}$  cm $^{-2}$  and superior stability for alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR). Experimental and theoretical investigations unveil that the superior HOR performance is due to the enhanced water adsorption and optimized hydrogen binding energy over the dual-modulated Ni active centers with a moderately downshifted d-band center, which stems from the charge polarization triggered by the introduced Pt atoms, creating an electron-rich local environment for Pt atoms while electron-depletion for Ni atoms, as well as inducing electrons transfer from the metallic core to the carbon shell. This study provides an effective dual modulation strategy to construct robust non-noble metal electrocatalysts for HOR, guiding the catalyst design of other related catalytic reactions.

### 1. Introduction

Anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) are gaining attraction due to their operation in less corrosive alkaline environments, which permits using more economical nonprecious metal catalysts, cost-effective bipolar plates, and hydrocarbon-based membranes.<sup>[1]</sup> This alignment with the U.S. Department of Energy's target to reduce fuel cell vehicle costs to \$30 kW<sup>-1</sup><sub>net</sub> makes AEMFCs a promising technology for sustainable energy solutions.<sup>[2]</sup> However, the anode hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in AEMFC presents a significant challenge,<sup>[3]</sup> as it exhibits considerably slower kinetics in alkaline conditions compared to acidic environments, even with the use of Pt catalysts.<sup>[4]</sup> Therefore, it is critical need to develop highly active, stable, and low-cost electrocatalysts for the alkaline HOR.

H. Ren, W. Yu, M. Lv, J. Gao, H. Hu, M. Wang, X. Cui, J. Liu, L. Jiang College of Materials Science & Engineering Qingdao University of Science & Technology

Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

E-mail: liuj955@qust.edu.cn; luhuajiang@qust.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202413754

DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202413754

Nickel (Ni)-based catalysts are emerging as a preferred choice for nonprecious metal catalysts in alkaline HOR due to their promising catalytic properties.<sup>[5]</sup> Recent advancements have boosted their activity through various methods such as alloying,<sup>[6]</sup> heterostructuring,<sup>[7]</sup> doping,<sup>[8]</sup> and amorphization.<sup>[6a,9,10]</sup> However, the stability of Ni-based catalysts remains a significant challenge under harsh conditions characterized by high pH levels and elevated temperatures, primarily due to the susceptibility of nickel catalysts to ambient oxygen and water vapor, resulting in surface oxidation/passivation.

In addressing these challenges, singleatom alloys (SAAs),<sup>[11]</sup> have garnered attention for their ability to efficiently utilize metal sites, modulate the electronic structure, and the potential for unique active sites that are distinct from those

found in bulk metals or traditional alloys of the host metal, thereby optimizing catalytic performance.  $^{[12]}$  The incorporation of atomic-level metallic dopants on metal hosts has also shown promising results in enhancing activity for alkaline HOR. For example, the dispersion of atomic Ru in Pt nanocrystals (Ru\_1Pt\_n), atomic Ni in Ru nanocrystals (Ni\_1Ru),  $^{[13]}$  and the modification of Pt nanocatalysts with single-atom Mo (Mo-Pt/NC),  $^{[14]}$  all of which exhibit enhanced activity for alkaline HOR. The activity improvement is attributed to the oxyphilic nature of dopant metal sites, facilitating  $\rm H_2O/OH$  adsorption, and optimizing the electronic microenvironment of host metal sites for H adsorption. However, a notable observation in these studies is the reliance on precious metals as host materials. There is a potent yet unexplored opportunity to utilize Ni as the host metal while incorporating noble metals as dopants.

Carbon encapsulation, on the other hand, provides a protective layer that shields the metal nanoparticles from deleterious interactions with the environment, such as oxidation or sintering. [15,16] The carbon shell can also contribute to the electronic modulation of the encapsulated metal nanoparticles, potentially facilitating electron transfer and further tuning the adsorption properties of the catalyst. [17] Moreover, the porous nature of the carbon shell ensures the accessibility of reactants to the active sites while maintaining the structural integrity of the catalyst under operation conditions.

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202413754 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Motivated by these discoveries, we propose a dual modulation strategy incorporating single-atom Pt in the Ni nanoparticle host and carbon encapsulation. The resulting NiPtSA@NC catalyst exhibits not only an increased specific activity, due to the synergistic effects of the single-atom Pt dopant and the carbon shell, but also superior stability by preventing the passivation of Ni active sites and mitigating the degradation that commonly plague Ni-based catalysts. This dual-modulation strategy is expected to result in a redistribution of charge density around the Ni and Pt atoms, leading to an optimized d-band center that favors HOR kinetics. The carbon shell further acts as a barrier against aggressive species in the alkaline environment, preserving the catalyst's integrity over extended periods.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

# **2.1. Preparation and Characterization of NiPtSA@NC**

The synthesis procedure of single Pt atom doped nickel nanoparticles, encapsulated within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer (NiPtSA@NC), is depicted in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) The process began with the formation of single Pt atom doped Ni nanoparticles via colloid chemistry and galvanic replacement. To ensure the preferential nucleation of Ni over Pt, the concentration of PtCl6 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> is meticulously controlled at an ultra-low level. Subsequently, dicyandiamide (DCD) was introduced to chelate with NiPtSA nanoparticles, followed by pyrolysis to form a nitrogendoped carbon shell.

To investigate the formation of single-atom Pt-doped Ni colloids, we conducted UV–vis spectroscopic analysis of the individual Pt and Ni colloid synthesis processes. Figure S1a (Supporting Information) presents the Ultraviolet-Visble Spectroscopy (UV–vis) absorption spectra of 1.40 mm H2PtCl6 in ethylene glycol solution at different reaction times. Notably, this concentration is 17.5 times higher than that used for the NiPtSA colloid synthesis. The initial absorption peak at 260 nm, characteristics of Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, completely disappeared after 10 min, accompanied by a color change from yellow to black. This indicates the reduction of H2PtCl6 within this period, consistent with previous literature.[\[18\]](#page-11-0) Subsequently, the peaks emerging near 242 and 278 nm with time are likely attributed to the oxidation products derived from ethylene glycol. Figure S1b (Supporting Information) displays the UV–vis absorption spectra for the reduction process of 20.33 mm Ni in ethylene glycol solution over different reaction times. The appearance of peaks at 266 nm after 1.5 h signifies the reduction of Ni2<sup>+</sup>. The color changes from bright green to yellow and then dark brown. Figure S1c (Supporting Information) shows the UV–vis absorption spectra for the reduction process of 0.08 mM H2PtCl6 and 20.33 mM Ni2<sup>+</sup> in ethylene glycol solution at different reduction times. Notably, the absorption peak at 266 nm, consistent with that observed in pure Ni colloid synthesis, emerges after 1.5 h, accompanied by a color change from bright green to yellow and then dark brown. Importantly, no absorption peaks attributable to the reduction process of Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> were observed in Figure S1c (Supporting Information). Based on the effective collision theory, the high concentration of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions leads to significant thermal motion and collisions between molecules, greatly reducing the probability of Pt nucleation and thus preventing the formation of Pt nuclei. Therefore, we can conclude that Ni nucleation occurs first during the synthesis process. This is followed by the replacement of Ni atoms by Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, driven by the potential difference of Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>/Pt<sup>0</sup> compared to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ni0. This process ultimately leads to the formation of singleatom Pt-doped Ni nanoparticles.

Furthermore, we conducted thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA) for the prepyrolyzed sample of NiPtSA@NC, denoted as NiPtSA@SC-DCD, as shown in Figure S2 (Supporting Information). The thermal analysis revealed multiple stages of decomposition. The initial decomposition occurs below 87 °C. This stage resulted in a 17% mass loss, primarily due to the evaporation of coordinated water and organic ligands. The intermediate stage is up to 252 °C, this phase showed a 13% mass loss, where trisodium citrate dehydrates and reacts to form carbon quantum dots, serving as the primary carbon source for the carbon coating framework. The final decomposition is from 252 to 367 °C. It is observed a significant 56% mass loss, during which dicyandiamide decomposes, releasing NH3. This process contributes to the nitrogen-doping in the carbon layer. To address the concerns about the polymerization products of dicyandiamide at the operational temperature of 370 °C, we subjected both dicyandiamide (DCD) and a mixture of trisodium citrate with dicyandiamide (SC+DCD) to the same thermal treatment. The results, as shown in the insert of Figure S3 (Supporting Information), indicated that DCD transformed into a light-yellow powder, while the SC+DCD mixture yielded a black powder. The XRD patterns of the two samples are shown in Figure S3 (Supporting Information). It shows that at 370 °C, DCD predominantly forms graphitic carbon nitride. The interaction with SC further alters the structure, possibly due to the formation of carbon quantum dots and additional carbonaceous species. For comparison, nitrogen-doped carbon-coated Ni nanoparticle catalysts (named Ni@NC) and uncoated Ni/C catalysts were synthesized using a similar synthesis method.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of Ni/C, Ni@NC, and NiPtSA@NC, shown in Figure [1b,](#page-2-0) reveal the presence of diffraction peaks at 44.5°, 51.8°, and 76.4°, which correspond to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of face-centered cubic (fcc) Ni phase in all samples. Notably, for NiPtSA@NC, there are no detectable diffraction peaks from Pt, indicating Pt disperses atomically. A slight shift in the (200) and (220) crystal planes of NiPtSA@NC toward lower 2 values compared to Ni@NC catalyst can be observed. This shift indicates a slight expansion of the crystal plane spacing of NiPtSA@NC, attributed to the incorporation of Pt atoms into the Ni lattice. Figure [1c](#page-2-0) shows the characteristic morphology of the NiPtSA@NC, featuring typical core–shell structured nanoparticle clusters with an average particle size of 7.6 nm. Figure [1d](#page-2-0) shows the shell distribution of the NiPtSA@NC catalyst, which consists of 1–3 graphene layers, with 50% of the particles having a single graphene layer. In addition, the high-resolution transmission electron micrographs (HRTEM) in Figure [1e](#page-2-0) show that the core lattice spacing of the catalyst is 0.205 and 0.184 nm, corresponding to the (111) and (200) crystal facets of fcc-Ni. Interestingly, the d-spacing is slightly expanded than the standard Ni shown in Ni@NC TEM and HRTEM in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), indicating the incorporation of Pt atoms might induce lattice distortion, which may be due to the ligand effect inherent in singleatom alloys. As shown in Figure [1f,](#page-2-0) the Pt atoms are identified

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the NiPtSA@NC synthesis. b) XRD. c) TEM image and the particle size distribution (inset). d,e) HRTEM image of NiPtSA@NC. f) AC-HAADF-STEM images of NiPtSA@NC. g) Enlarged AC-HAADF-STEM image in the selected area in (f). h) Intensity profile along the line X-Y in (g) highlighting the atomic dispersion of Pt on the Ni surface. i) AC-HAADF-STEM images of NiPtSA@NC. The corresponding elemental distribution mapping of j) Ni, k) Pt, l) N, m) C, and n) O.

using aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF-STEM). Due to the higher Z-value of Pt compared to Ni, several bright spots corresponding to Pt atoms (highlighted with yellow circles) are observed in the Ni lattice. Furthermore, the intensity distribution profiles in Figure 1g,h clearly depict the atomic arrangement of Pt and Ni, with Pt atoms showing a significantly higher intensity. This confirms that Pt atoms are isolated within the Ni matrix. Figure 1i–n presents the AC-HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding elemental distribution maps of the NiPtSA@NC sample.

To elucidate the local electron and atomic configurations of NiPtSA@NC, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended edge X-ray fine structure (EXAFS) characterization were conducted. **Figure [2](#page-3-0)**a presents the Ni K-edge of NiPtSA@NC, compared against NiO and Ni foil references, where the binding energy of NiPtSA@NC is nestled between those of Ni foil and NiO. This positioning indicates a partial positive charge on nickel atoms. Coherently, Pt L3-edge XANES of NiPtSA@NC shown in Figure [2b,](#page-3-0) displays a slight decrease in the white line intensity compared to Pt foil, indicating the electron transfer from Ni to Pt.[\[19\]](#page-11-0) The local coordination environments of Ni and atomic Pt

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Normalized Ni K-edge XANES spectra. b) Normalized Pt L3-edge XANES spectra. c) FT-EXAFS curves at the Ni K-edge. d) FT-EXAFS curves at the Pt L3-edge. e) Wavelet transforms Pt L-edge EXAFS spectra for NiPtSA@NC with f) Ni foil, g) Pt foil, and h) PtO2 for reference.

in NiPtsA@NC were thoroughly investigated via EXAFS at the Ni K-edge and Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge. The structural parameters obtained from EXAFS are summarized in Table \$1 (Supporting Information). The Fourier transform of Ni K-edge EXAFS oscillations, displayed in Figure 2c, exhibit a notable peak  $\approx$ 2.1 Å, analogous to that of Ni foil, signifying the Ni-Ni (Pt) coordination pathway. The Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge EXAFS analysis, as shown in Figure 2d, features a prominent peak at ≈2.2 Å, attributing to Pt-Ni coordination. The absence of the Pt-Pt coordination peak, typically observed in Pt foil, unequivocally confirms the atomic dispersion of Pt in NiPt<sub>SA</sub> @NC. The wavelet transform (WT) unveils the Ptlocalized coordination environments in both k and R spaces. The contour plot (Figure 2e-h), shows the absence of characteristic Ni-Ni ( $\approx$ 8.0 Å), Pt-Pt ( $\approx$ 12.5 Å), and Pt-O ( $\approx$ 6.8 Å) coordination signals in NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC, unlike those observed in Ni foil, Pt foil, and PtO2. This reinforces that Pt atoms in NiPtSA @ NC are atomically dispersed and predominantly coordinated with neighboring Ni atoms. Furthermore, EXAFS data confirms the d-spacing expansion, revealing a longer Ni-Pt bond length (2.51 Å) than the Ni—Ni bond length (2.48 Å). These findings strongly support the d-spacing expansion due to the doping of Pt single atoms.

### 2.2. Electrocatalytic Activity of NiPtsA@NC Toward HOR

The basic cyclic voltammetry (CV) of NiPt<sub>SA</sub> @NC, together with Ni@NC and Ni/C for comparison, was conducted in an N<sub>2</sub>saturated 0.1 м KOH electrolyte to evaluate the electrochemical property. As depicted in Figure 3a, the anodic oxidation peaks of the three catalysts are evident  $\approx 0.18$  V in the base CV. The peak signifies the conversion of Ni<sup>0</sup> to  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> during scanning; meanwhile, the reduction peak occurs ≈0 V is indicative of the reduction of  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to Ni<sup>0</sup>. [10,20] The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of the catalyst is calculated by integrating this peak area, which follows the sequence of Ni/C (20.73 m $^2$  g $^{-1}$ ) >Ni@NC (18.14 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) >NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC (10.62 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure S5, Supporting Information). It should be pointed out that the apparent discrepancy between the raw ECSA values and the ECSA normalized to Ni content arises from the differing nickel loadings in the catalysts. While all three catalyst electrodes were coated with a consistent areal mass loading of 255  $\mu g_{catalyst}$  cm<sup>-2</sup> geo, the mass loading of nickel differed. Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) analysis listed in Table S2 (Supporting Information) reveals that the nickel content was highest in NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC (88.10 wt.%), followed by Ni@NC (56.34 wt.%), and Ni/C (37.00 wt.%). Subsequently, the electrocatalytic activity of the three catalysts toward the HOR was evaluated using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in an H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 м КОН electrolyte (Figure 3b). Notably, the HOR current density of the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC catalyst surpasses that of Ni@NC and Ni/C at any given potential. Furthermore, the linear scanning voltammetry curves within the potential window from −0.1 to 0.1 V<sub>RHE</sub> were examined (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The corresponding Tafel plots are derived by correcting the HOR branch with the K-L equation (Figure 3c). The geometric exchange current density  $(j_0)$  is then estimated using the Bulter-Volmer equation, yielding values of 1.96, 1.40, and 0.37 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC, Ni@NC and Ni/C, respectively. After normalizing to the ECSA, the specific exchange current density  $(j_{0.s})$ , reflecting the intrinsic activity of the catalyst, was determined. As

shown in Figure 3d, the specific activity of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC for HOR is as high as 82.0 μA cm<sup>-2</sup>, surpassing Ni@NC (53.6 μA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Ni/C (19.2 µA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Moreover, the HOR polarization curves of NiPts @NC catalysts exhibit dependency on rotating speeds (Figure 3e), with a linear relationship observed between j<sup>-1</sup> and  $\omega^{-1/2}$  at the overpotential (n) of 50 mV. This yields a slope of 12.8 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> rpm<sup>1/2</sup> (Figure S7, Supporting Information), which is in good accordance with the literature.<sup>[21]</sup> The kinetic current densities (jk) of NiPtsA@NC, Ni@NC, and Ni/C catalysts are 3.45, 3.23, and 1.49 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information). Normalizing to the mass of Ni obtained by ICP, the mass activity (jkm) of NiPtsA@NC is calculated to be 15.6 A g-1. Notably, the specific activity of NiPts and NC is listed as the best of the current nickel-based HOR catalysts (Figure 3f and Table S3, Supporting Information), demonstrating the superior intrinsic HOR catalytic activity of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC.[16d,22] The HOR activity of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC at different temperatures is evaluated (Figure \$10, Supporting Information), showing the activity increases with the elevated temperature. The activation energy (E<sub>a</sub>) for the HOR on the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC catalyst is determined to be 28.6 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup> via the Arrhenius formula, as shown in Figure S11 (Supporting Information). The relatively low activation energy as compared to that previously reported on the metallic Ni catalyst (30.0 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup>)<sup>[23]</sup> suggests a favorite HOR kinetics over the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC surface.Ni<sub>100</sub>Pt<sub>x</sub>@NC catalysts with different Pt contents were also synthesized, denoted as Ni<sub>100</sub>Pt<sub>0.5</sub>@NC and Ni<sub>100</sub>Pt<sub>2</sub>@NC. XRD spectra (Figure S12, Supporting Information) reveal that the crystal structure remains fcc-Ni for all samples. The HOR catalytic activity is subsequently evaluated (Figure S13, Supporting Information), among which NiPt<sub>SA</sub> @NC with the optimal Ni/Pt ratio possesses the superior intrinsic HOR activity. We further synthesized a NiPt<sub>allov</sub>@NC catalyst with an increased Pt amount to five times the amount used for NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC. The XRD pattern (Figure S14, Supporting Information) shows that the crystal plane (111) of NiPt<sub>allov</sub> @NC has an obvious small angle shift, and the low angle shift is  $\approx 0.22^{\circ}$ , which strongly proves the formation of the  $NiPt_{alloy}$  phase. The electrochemical performance of this new catalyst was then compared with NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC, as shown in Figure S15 (Supporting Information). The results reveal that the HOR performance of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC is significantly superior to that of NiPt<sub>allov</sub>@NC.

## 2.3. Stability of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC for HOR

The electrochemical stability and chemical robustness of the catalysts are evaluated by applying different aging conditions, including accelerated degradation tests (ADT), conditions mimicking AEMFC operation, and ambient storage. The activity degradation of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC and Ni/C and the corresponding reversibility are summarized in **Figure 4a**,b. Specifically, ADT was conducted on the catalysts at a scan rate of 100 mV s $^{-1}$  within a potential window of  $-0.005-0.1~V_{\rm RHE}$ . The HOR polarization curves during different CV cycles were recorded and are shown in Figure S16a,b (Supporting Information). The activity at 0.1 V<sub>RHE</sub> is compared. Remarkably, the HOR current for the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC catalyst sustained 92.0% of its original activity after 3000 cycles, in stark contrast to the Ni/C catalyst, which retained a mere 60.0% of its initial activity. It is important to note that the observed activity

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) CV curves of Ni/C, Ni@NC, and NiPtSA@NC in N2-saturated 0.1 Mm KOH with a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. b) HOR polarization curves of Ni/C, Ni@NC, and NiPtSA@NC in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at a rotating rate of 2500 rpm. c) Tafel plots. d) Exchange current densities normalized by ECSA. e) HOR polarization curves of NiPtSA@NC at different rotating rates. f) Comparison of the ECSA-normalized activity (j0,s) with the state-of-the-art Ni-based catalysts.

degradation could not be recovered by subsequent electrochemical reduction, suggesting that the electro-oxidation of the Ni catalyst is an irreversible process and underscoring the superior electrochemical oxidation resistance of the NiPtSA@NC.

Subsequently, we measured the HOR polarization curves of the catalysts before and after 4 h of immersion in 1 m KOH solution at 60 °C, followed by electrochemical reduction (Figure S17a,b, Supporting Information). The Ni/C catalyst suffers a drastic loss in catalytic activity post-immersion, retaining only 11% of its initial activity, whereas the NiPtSA@NC catalyst preserves 55% of its original activity. After an electrochemical reduction protocol, the irreversible activity loss of NiPtSA@NC catalyst is 29%, significantly lower than the 52% loss for Ni/C, further verifying the enhanced OH<sup>−</sup> passivation resistance of NiPtSA@NC.

Figure S18a,b (Supporting Information) shows the HOR polarization curves of Ni/C and NiPtSA@NC freshly prepared and stored for 40 days, respectively. It can be seen that the catalytic activity of both samples showed a similar decrease degree after storage, with Ni/C and NiPtSA@NC at 0.1 VRHE HOR currents decreasing by 70% and 74% of the initial current, respectively. This indicates the carbon shell layer of NiPtSA@NC possesses a breathable porous structure. Interestingly, the performance degradation of NiPtSA@NC is mostly recoverable after electrochemical reduction, with the HOR current decreasing by only 26% at 0.1 VRHE. In contrast, the activity of the Ni/C catalyst is

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Summary of the activity retaining of a) NiPtSA@NC and b) Ni/C after different aging conditions. High-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra of c) NiPtSA@NC and d) Ni/C fresh and after different aging conditions.

irreversibly reduced by 46%. The result proves that NiPtSA@NC allows a reversible decay in catalytic activity under storage compared to the Ni/C catalyst.

To further understand the stability and chemical state changes of the catalysts under different aging conditions, XPS analysis was performed. Figure S19a (Supporting Information) presents the full XPS spectra for Ni@NC and NiPtSA@NC, further demonstrating the elemental composition of the material. The surface atomic ratio of NiPtSA@NC from XPS analysis is listed in Table S4 (Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S19b (Supporting Information), the N1s peak NiPtSA@NC is located at 399.0 eV, corresponding to pyridine nitrogen. The fitting parameters of the Ni 2p XPS are listed in Table S5. The Ni 2p XPS spectrum of the fresh Ni/C catalyst (Figure 4d) showed three distinct peaks at binding energies of 853.0, 854.7, and 856.5 eV, which correspond to Ni0, Ni2<sup>+</sup>-O, and Ni2<sup>+</sup>-OH, respectively. Notably, after the Ni/C catalyst was subjected to hightemperature alkaline conditions, a shift in the Ni<sup>0</sup> peak toward a higher binding energy by 0.3 eV was observed, along with a 16.1% decrease in the relative content of Ni<sup>0</sup> species. For the Ni/C sample post-ADT, it is observed that the position of the Ni<sup>0</sup> peak remained nearly unchanged, but the relative content of Ni<sup>0</sup> species decreased by 14.4%. Combined with the electrochemical test results, it is evident that the Ni/C catalyst is susceptible to partial oxidation under high-temperature alkaline as well as during ADT. Importantly, ADT appears to induce a more pronounced irreversible oxidation effect on the catalyst.

In comparison, the high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectrum of the freshly prepared NiPtSA@NC, depicted in Figure 4c, shows peaks for Ni0, Ni2<sup>+</sup>-O, and Ni2<sup>+</sup>-OH, centered at 852.6, 854.0, and 856.3 eV (Table S6, Supporting Information), respectively.[\[24\]](#page-11-0) The lower binding energy compared to Ni/C samples is because the electrons accumulate between the metal core and the carbon overlayer, thus preventing excessive oxidation of the nickel, as confirmed by theoretical calculations. Upon exposure to high-temperature alkaline conditions, NiPtSA@NC exhibits a modest positive shift of 0.2 eV in the Ni<sup>0</sup> peak along with an 11% reduction in the relative content of Ni0. It is noteworthy that both the shift of the Ni<sup>0</sup> peak and the decrease in Ni<sup>0</sup> content are less pronounced than those observed in the Ni/C catalyst. This suggests that the NiPtSA@NC catalyst exhibits a superior ability of anti-oxidation compared to Ni under harsh alkaline conditions. It is important to emphasize that after the ADT, Ni<sup>0</sup> in the NiPtSA@NC catalyst remains remarkably stable, maintaining as high as 99.3%, demonstrating its excellent resistance to electrochemical oxidation. The morphology and micro-structure of Ni/C and NiPtSA@NC catalysts after the ADT are meticulously analyzed. HRTEM images revealed that the NiPtSA@NC catalyst preserved its original structure after ADT (Figure S20, Supporting Information). In contrast, the HRTEM images of Ni/C catalyst reveal an interplanar spacing of 0.208 nm, which matches the NiO (200) plane, indicating partial oxidation of Ni (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The comprehensive stability analysis underscores the superior anti-oxidation ability of the NiPtSA@NC

16163208, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.2024) 754 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07.012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rem

-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. a) HOR polarization curves of NiPtsA@NC in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M KOH +5 mM KSCN, and fresh 0.1 M KOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at a rotating rotation of 2500 rpm. b) HOR/HER polarization curves of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M KOH + 5 mM LiOH, and 0.1 M LiOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at a rotating rotate of 2500 rpm. c) PZC measured for Pt/C and NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC. d) CO-stripping voltammetry curves. e) In situ SEIRAS spectra of interfacial water molecules in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M NaOH solutions at 0.1  $V_{RHE}$ . of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC and Pt/C. f) Normalized in situ SEIRAS spectra of interfacial water structure on NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC and Pt/C.

catalyst compared to the Ni/C catalyst under various degradation conditions.

#### 2.4. Understanding of Catalytic Mechanism

To elucidate the underlying reasons for the activity enhancement of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC, a combination of experimental and theoretical investigation is conducted. First, regarding the active sites, we investigated whether the HOR occurs on the metal surface or the coated NC surface. To probe this, we employed SCN<sup>-</sup> as a poison molecule to selectively block the metal sites.

Figure 5a presents the HOR polarization curves before and after introducing SCN<sup>-</sup> into the electrolyte. The presence of SCN<sup>-</sup> significantly reduces the HOR current density by up to 69.5% at 0.1 V<sub>RHE</sub>. Notably, this decrease in activity is irreversible, even after replacing the electrolyte. To support this finding, we subjected NiPt<sub>sA</sub>@NC to acid etching in 2 м HCl for 24 h to remove the metal core. Figure \$23a (Supporting Information) shows that the acid-etched sample shows no obvious redox peak for Ni, indicating the successful removal of Ni nanoparticles. In addition, the carbon layer exhibits little activity for the HOR (Figure S22b, Supporting Information). These findings collectively demonstrate that the metal core, specifically

www.advancedsciencenews.com

speaking, Ni serves as the primary active site in the NiPt<sub>s A</sub> @NC catalyst.

Second, we investigated the role of the carbon layers in influencing hydrogen gas and ion transport. In our work, the carbon layer is porous and defective, allowing for efficient transport of H<sub>2</sub> gas and ions to the metal surface, which has been confirmed by poisoning experiments and also in our previous work.[16d,24,25] We systematically varied the thickness of this carbon layer by adjusting the amount of sodium citrate (SC) used during synthesis. (HR)TEM images in (Figure S23a,b, Supporting Information) reveal that reducing the amount of trisodium citrate significantly thins the carbon layer to ≈0.6 nm, equivalent to the thickness of two graphene layers. Conversely, excessive trisodium citrate leads to a thicker carbon layer of  $\approx$ 1.8 nm, equivalent to six graphene layers (Figure S23c,d, Supporting Information). Figure S24a-c (Supporting Information) shows the base CV and HOR polarization curves of samples with different SC additions. As the SC amount decreases, the carbon layer thins, significantly increasing the active area (Figure S25a, Supporting Information). This is further corroborated by the HOR activity, which decreases with increasing carbon layer thickness (Figure S25b,c, Supporting Information). To assess the impact of carbon layer thickness on long-term stability, we performed accelerated aging tests (Figure S25d, Supporting Information). The sample with the thinner carbon layer (NiPt<sub>sa</sub>@NC-thin) exhibited an 11.5% activity loss after 3k CV cycles, while the NiPt<sub>sA</sub>@NC sample with a thicker layer showed only an 8% loss. This suggests that while a thinner carbon layer enhances activity, a thicker layer provides better stability. We selected the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC sample for this study, as it represents a balance between activity and stability.

Furthermore, to understand the catalytic mechanism of NiPt<sub>s,A</sub>@NC for the HOR, the effects of the types and concentrations of alkali metal cations (AM+) in the electrolyte were examined. Figure 5b shows the HOR/HER polarization curves for NiPt<sub>s A</sub> @NC in 0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M LiOH, and a mixed 0.1 M KOH and 5 mm LiOH electrolyte. It reveals that the HOR/HER activity in the LiOH electrolyte is inferior to that in the KOH, and the HOR/HER activity decreases slightly with the addition of 5 mm LiOH to 0.1 м KOH. It is noteworthy that the activity sequence for the HOR/HER is contrary to previous findings for polycrystalline Pt and Pt/C, where the activity in LiOH is higher than in KOH, and an increase of cation concentrations would promote HER but weaken HOR. It has been argued that the alkali ions at the electrode interface modulate the catalytic activity by interacting with the interfacial water molecules. Specifically, the strong interaction between alkali metal cations and solvated water molecules (more pronounced for K<sup>+</sup> than Li<sup>+</sup>) significantly disrupts the hydrogen bonding among water molecules within the electric double layer, thereby diminishing the connectivity of the hydrogen bond network.<sup>[26]</sup> Thus, the diverse impact of cations on the activity of the NiPts @NC catalyst from that on Pt catalyst surfaces is possibly owing to their different rate-limiting steps. The Pt catalyst exhibits weak water binding in alkaline electrolytes, whereas NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC potentially enhances the hydrogen bond network connectivity at the interface's electric double layer due to the unique structure. To confirm this, the zero charge potentials(PZC) for NiPtsA@NC and Pt/C were determined using the Gouy-Chapman capacitance minimum method.[27] As shown in Figure 5c, PZC values of NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC and Pt/C are 0.68 and

Adv. Funct. Mater. 2025, 35, 2413754

0.89 V, respectively. The lower PZC observed for NiPt<sub>SA</sub> @ NC suggests a reduced barrier for interfacial water reorganization compared to Pt/C, aligning with the observed cation effects on the HOR activity. Moreover, CO stripping voltammetry was utilized to investigate OH<sub>2d</sub> adsorption on the catalyst surface. As shown in Figure 5d, NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC exhibits similar CO<sub>ad</sub> onset oxidation potential and peak potential to Ni@NC, significantly lower than those of Pt/C, indicating that both the carbon-encapsulated Nibased catalysts possess enhanced OH binding energy compared to Pt/C. Given that NiPt<sub>SA</sub> @NC reduces the barrier for interfacial water organization and enhances OH adsorption, it is plausible that the Volmer step is not the rate-determining step. The cation experiment results support this hypothesis, demonstrating that HBE is a primary descriptor for the HOR on NiPts @NC. In situ, surface-enhanced infrared spectroscopy (SEIRAS) measurements are conducted to probe the interfacial water molecules on NiPtsA@NC and Pt/C in H2-saturated 0.1 м NaOH solutions at 0.1 V<sub>RHE</sub>. As shown in Figure 5e, a broad band spanning 3000-4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> appears in the spectrum, corresponding to the O-H stretching mode of interfacial water. Gaussian fitting of these spectra revealed three distinct components: water molecules in the gap region ( $\approx 3600 \text{ cm}^{-1}$ ,  $H_2O_{gap}$ ), above the gap region (≈3400 cm<sup>-1</sup>, H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>above-gap</sub>), and adjacent to the electrode surface region ( $\approx 3200 \text{ cm}^{-1}$ , Na·H<sub>2</sub>O).<sup>[28]</sup> Compared to Pt/C, all the peaks at NiPts @NC surface shift to a lower wavenumber, suggesting increased H<sub>2</sub>O adsorption and a more continuous Hbond network. Furthermore, NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC exhibits a higher proportion of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>gap</sub>, indicating enhanced connectivity of H-bond networks near the surface.

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations are performed to get more insights into the electron modulation of NiPt<sub>sA</sub>@NC and the catalytic activity of HOR. Based on the experimental results, the theoretical model of NiPtsA@NC catalyst is constructed, i.e., the surface of Ni (111) substituted by Pt single atom (Pt-Ni (111)) and added to the pyridine nitrogen-doped graphene (N-Gr) layer. For comparison, a theoretical model of Ni@NC catalyst is also established (Figure 6a left). The d-orbital partial density of states (d-PDOS) of the metal Ni (111), the Pt-Ni (111), and the Pt-Ni (111) @NGr are calculated. As shown in Figure 6b, the d-band center of the NiPtsA@NC is -1.44 eV, which is located between Ni (-1.31 eV) and NiPt<sub>sa</sub> (-1.47 eV). According to the d-band theory, a lower d-center implies a reduction in the adsorption strength of catalysts and intermediate species. Consequently, NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC, with its downshifted d-band, is expected to have weakened HBE, favorably influencing the HOR/HER reaction compared to the overly strong HBE of Ni. Figure 6c illustrates the electron distribution at the core, while Figure 6d displays the charge distribution at the interface of the core and shell for the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC catalyst. It reveals that electron transfer from Ni to Pt. This results in electron-rich Pt and partially positively charged Ni surfaces, aligning with XANES findings. Furthermore, it can be observed that a significant electron accumulation at the core-shell interface and a 0.77e<sup>-</sup> transfer from the metal core to the graphene layer in NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC. The optimized adsorption configuration of hydrogen atoms on the NiPt<sub>SA</sub>@NC catalyst surface is depicted in Figure 6a (right). The hydrogen atom exhibits bridge adsorption mode on the two Ni atoms adjacent to the Pt atom. It is reported that SAAs provide the potential to break the limitations of linear scaling relationships by decoupling

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Top view of NiPtSA@NC and the adsorption configurations of H\* intermediate on NiPtSA@NC surfaces. b) Ni 3d PDOS of Ni, NiPt and NiPtSA@NC. c) The top view and d) the side view of the charge density difference in the interface of NiPtSA@NC. e) Free energy diagram for NiPtSA@NC and Ni@NC toward the alkaline HOR. f) Schematic illustration of the alkaline HOR mechanism on NiPtSA@NC.

adsorption energy and site binding preferences.[\[12\]](#page-10-0) SAA structure is anticipated to facilitate hydrogen dissociation, with isolated doped atoms (Pt) stabilizing the transition state's strong adsorption, while the weakly bound main metals (Ni) favor the weak binding of the final state. Consequently, the unique singleatom Pt-doped Ni structure is expected to enhance both hydrogen dissociation and adsorption. Furthermore, the free energy profiles for the HBE pathway of the HOR are displayed in Figure 6e. The free energy of H adsorption on NiPtSA@NC is −0.10 eV, lower than that on Ni@NC (−0.20 eV). To elucidate the effect of the number of graphene layers, we conducted additional theoretical calculations using a three-layer graphene model, specifically Ni@NGr-3L and NiPtSA@NGr-3L. The optimized geometries of these catalysts and hydrogen (H) adsorption are illustrated in Figure S25 (Supporting Information). The free energy diagram shows that the Gibbs free energy for H adsorption on NiPtSA@NC-3L is −0.18 eV, compared to −0.27 eV for Ni@NC-3L, indicating that NiPtSA@NC-3L achieves closer to the ideal hydrogen adsorption. Notably, a deviation from neutrality in the three-layer graphene-confined model, compared to the <span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

single-layer model, suggests that electronic modulation by singlelayer graphene is more favorable than by three-layer graphene. These findings are consistent with the study by Bao and Deng et al., which examined the impact of graphene shell thickness on the catalytic performance of encapsulated CoNi nanoalloys for HER. Their research demonstrated that electron redistribution between the core and shell diminishes as the number of graphene layers increases.[\[29\]](#page-11-0) Overall, the calculations demonstrate that the dual charge modulation by the Pt single atom within the metal core and core–shell interface endows the NiPtSA@NC catalyst with optimal HBE, favorable to the kinetics of alkaline HOR. Combining our findings from CO stripping, cation effect investigation, PZC measurement, in situ SEIRAS, and DFT calculations we propose a catalytic mechanism for NiPtSA@NC toward the HOR, illustrated in Figure [6f.](#page-9-0) The nitrogen-doped carbon layer of NiPtSA@NC plays a triple role: i) interacting with the metal via electron transfer, ii) acting as a physical barrier to protect the catalyst against oxidation, and iii) enhancing water adsorption on the catalyst. The primary active site is Ni, where the bridge sites near Pt are the optimal sites for H adsorption. The introduction of Pt induces charge polarization between Ni and Pt, while the carbon layer optimizes the electronic structure of Ni, leading to optimal adsorption of intermediates. Consequently, hydrogen gas can efficiently pass through the porous carbon layer and dissociate at the modulated Ni sites. The enhanced water adsorption and reduced PZC facilitate the transport of OH<sup>−</sup> to the electrode surface, aiding in the release of adsorbed Had. This synergistic effect accelerates the HOR kinetics on the NiPtSA@NC catalyst.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, this study presents a novel dual modulation strategy involving SAA and carbon encapsulation for alkaline HOR. The NiPtSA@NC catalyst exhibits an impressive specific activity of 82.0 μA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and superior stability for alkaline HOR. Experimental and theoretical investigations reveal that the enhanced HOR performance can be attributed to improved water adsorption and optimized hydrogen binding energy. This improvement stems from the introduction of Pt atoms, which trigger charge polarization, enriching electrons in the Pt atom while depleting those around Ni atoms, and modulating electron transfer between the metal core and the carbon shell. Consequently, this charge redistribution effectively modulates the d-band center of Ni atoms in NiPtSA@NC. This study underscores the significant impact of the dual modulation strategy, merging SAA and carbon encapsulation, in substantially improving the durability and efficiency of Ni-based electrocatalysts for alkaline environments.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors appreciate the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22279067), the Major Fundamental Research Program of the Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (ZR2022ZD10).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

charge polarization, encapsulated electrocatalyst, hydrogen oxidation reaction, nickel nanoparticle, single-atom alloy

> Received: July 30, 2024 Revised: September 25, 2024 Published online: October 14, 2024

16163028, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202413754 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] F.-Y. Gao, M.-R. Gao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2023**, *56*, 1445.
- [2] a) R. Abbasi, B. P. Setzler, Y. Yan, *Energ Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 4404; b) Y.-F. Li, J.-L. Li, Z.-P. Liu, *J. Electrochem.* **2022**, *28*, 2108511; c) L. Huang, H.-C. Xu, B. Jing, Q.-X. Li, W. Yi, S.-G. Sun, *J. Electrochem.* **2022**, *28*, 2108061.
- [3] S. Deng, G. Du, J. Wang, *China Adhes.* **2014**, *23*, 3.
- [4] Z.-C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 5153.
- [5] a) E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 6665; b) A. G. Oshchepkov, G. Braesch, A. Bonnefont, E. R. Savinova, M. Chatenet, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7043.
- [6] a) F.-Y. Gao, S.-N. Liu, J.-C. Ge, X.-L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y.-R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. Dong, X. Yu, R.-C. Bao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, Z.-G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M.-R. Gao, Y. Yan, S.-H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 993; b) S. Qin, Y. Duan, X.-L. Zhang, L.-R. Zheng, F.-Y. Gao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, R. Liu, Y. Yang, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2686. c) Y. Qu, B. Chen, Z. Li, X. Duan, L. Wang, Y. Lin, T. Yuan, F. Zhou, Y. Hu, Z. Yang, C. Zhao, J. Wang, C. Zhao, Y. Hu, G. Wu, Q. Zhang, Q. Xu, B. Liu, P. Gao, R. You, W. Huang, L. Zheng, L. Gu, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 4505.
- [7] F. Yang, P. Han, N. Yao, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Chem. Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 12118.
- [8] a) X. Zhao, X. Li, L. An, K. Iputera, J. Zhu, P. Gao, R.-S. Liu, Z. Peng, J. Yang, D. Wang, *Energ Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*,1234; b) A. W. Ruttinger, S. Tavakkoli, H. Shen, C. Wang, S. M. Jordaan, *Energ Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 1222;. c) X. Zhao, X. Li, L. An, K. Iputera, J. Zhu, P. Gao, R.-S. Liu, Z. Peng, J. Yang, D. Wang, *Energy Environ Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 1234.
- [9] E. S. Davydova, F. D. Speck, M. T. Y. Paul, D. R. Dekel, S. Cherevko, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6837.
- [10] A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, V. A. Saveleva, V. Papaefthimiou, S. Zafeiratos, S. N. Pronkin, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *Top. Catal.* **2016**, *59*, 1319.
- [11] H. Zhou, Y. Wu, *Sci. Bull.* **2023**, *68*, 465.
- [12] T. Shen, S. Wang, T. Zhao, Y. Hu, D. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2201823.
- [13] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [14] M. Ma, G. Li, W. Yan, Z. Wu, Z. Zheng, X. Zhang, Q. Wang, G. Du, D. Liu, Z. Xie, Q. Kuang, L. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103336.
- [15] Q. Liu, M. Ranocchiari, J. A. van Bokhoven, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2022**, *51*, 188.
- [16] a) Y. Gao, H. Peng, Y. Wang, G. Wang, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 31575; b) Y. Gao, Y. Yang, R.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>Schimmenti, E. Murray, H. Peng, Y. Wang, C. Ge, W. Jiang, G. Wang, F. J. Disalvo, D. A. Muller, M. Mavrikakis, L. Xiao, H. D. Abruna, L. Zhuang, *PNAS* **2022**, *199*, 2119883119; c) R. Ren, C. Ge, Q. Li, G. Wang, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *J. Power Sources.* **2023**, *16*, 556; d) J. Wang, X. Dong, J. Liu, W. Li, L. T. Roling, J. Xiao, L. Jiang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 7422.
- [17] a) F. Yang, S. Lu, Y. Feng, L. Fu, L. Feng, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 2324; b) W. Yu, J. Liu, H. Hu, Z. He, X. Cui, L. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2315062.
- [18] a) Z. Zhou, S. Wang, W. Zhou, G. Wang, L. Jiang, W. Li, S. Song, J. Liu, G. Sun, Q. Xin, *Chem. Commun.* **2003**, 394; b) C.-W. Chen, M. Akashi, *Langmuir* **1997**, *13*, 6465.
- [19] L. Zeng, Z. Zhao, F. Lv, Z. Xia, S.-Y. Lu, J. Li, K. Sun, K. Wang, Y. Sun, Q. Huang, Y. Chen, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3822.
- [20] D. S. Hall, C. Bock, B. R. MacDougall, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2013**, *160*, F235.
- [21] Y. Men, D. Wu, Y. Hu, L. Li, P. Li, S. Jia, J. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202217275.
- [22] a) Z. Huang, R. Lu, Y. Zhang, W. Chen, G. Chen, C. Ma, Z. Wang, Y. Han, W. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2306333; b) L. Chen, X. Liang, D. Wang, Z. Yang, C.-T. He, W. Zhao, J. Pei, Y. Xue, *ACS Appl. Mater. Inter.* **2022**, *14*, 27814; c) Z. Yang, C. Chen, Y. Zhao, Q. Wang, J. Zhao, G. I. N. Waterhouse, Y. Qin, L. Shang, T. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *35*, 2208799; d) L. Wang, Z. Xu, C. H. Kuo, J. Peng, F. Hu,

- L. Li, H. Y. Chen, J. Wang, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202311937. e) Y. Men, X. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. Ge, S. Jia, L. Li, J. Wang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc* **2022**, *144*, 12661.
- [23] A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *269*, 111.
- [24] W. Yu, J. Liu, H. Hu, Z. He, X. Cui, L. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2315062.
- [25] J. Liu, B. Zhang, Y. Fo, W. Yu, J. Gao, X. Cui, X. Zhou, L. Jiang, *Chem. Eng. J* **2023**, *464*, 142692.
- [26] E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232.
- [27] a) Y.-H. Wang, F.-Y. Gao, X.-L. Zhang, Y. Yang, J. Liao, Z.-Z. Niu, S. Qin, P.-P. Yang, P.-C. Yu, M. Sun, M.-R. Gao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17485; b) T. Wu, G. Wang, F. Zhan, Q. Dong, Q. Ren, J. Wang, J. Qiu, *Water Res.* **2016**, *93*, 30; c) S. Trasatti, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **1972**, *39*, 163.
- [28] Y. Wang, Y. Yang, F. Gao, X. Zhang, L. Zhu, H. Yan, P.-P. Yang, M. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *136*, 202407613.
- [29] P. Li, Y. Jiang, Y. Hu, Y. Men, Y. Liu, W. Cai, S. Chen, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 900.
- [30] a) L. Yu, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 15294; b) J. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 2100.