---
source: Ren 等 - 2024 - Vanadium‐Doped Heterointerfaced Ni3 N‐MoOx Nanosheets with Optimized H and Hs.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 74.799s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:16:52.152637Z
---

# Vanadium-Doped Heterointerfaced $Ni_3N-MoO_x$ Nanosheets with Optimized H and $H_2O$ Adsorption for Effective Alkaline Hydrogen Electrocatalysis

Jin-Tao Ren, Dandan Yang, Lei Chen, and Zhong-Yong Yuan\*

Nickel (Ni)-based materials represent a compelling avenue as platinum alternatives in the realm of alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis. However, conventional nickel nitrides (Ni<sub>3</sub>N) have long been hindered by sluggish hydrogen evolution kinetics in alkaline environments, owing to inadequate adsorption strengths of both hydrogen and water molecules. Herein, a novel approach is presented involving the design of vanadium (V)-doped Ni<sub>3</sub> N/MoO<sub>2</sub> heterogeneous nanosheets (V-Ni<sub>3</sub> N@MoO<sub>2</sub>), engineered to achieve optimized adsorption strengths for hydrogen evolution and oxidation reactions (HER/HOR). Theoretical insights underscore the superior catalytic performance of this composite, attributed to a synergistic interplay between unique V doping and the heterointerfaced structure. This synergistic effect not only fine-tunes the electronic structure, establishing an optimal d band center to mitigate proton over-bonding, but also ameliorates the energy barrier through enhanced H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation capability. Consequently, V-Ni<sub>2</sub>N@MoO<sub>2</sub> manifests remarkable catalytic activities, evincing an overpotential of 56 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER and an exchange current density of 1.91 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HOR in alkaline media. Notably, the stability assessment reveals the enduring performance of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>2</sub> for HER/HOR, exhibiting no activity decay over extended operational durations. This study underscores the efficacy of heterogeneous interface modulation as a transformative strategy in designing Ni-based materials for alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis.

## 1. Introduction

The renewable hydrogen cycle stands as the cornerstone of a future hydrogen-based society. Hydroxide exchange membrane electrolyzers (HEMELs) and hydroxide exchange membrane fuel cells (HEMFCs) present compelling alternatives to their proton exchange membrane counterparts, offering less corrosive operating conditions and the potential for utilizing cost-effective platinum group metal (PGM)-free electrocatalysts.<sup>[1,2]</sup> Nonetheless, the adoption of alkaline media in HEMELs and HEMFCs

J.-T. Ren, D. Yang, L. Chen, Z.-Y. Yuan School of Materials Science and Engineering Nankai University Tianjin 300350, China

E-mail: zyyuan@nankai.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article

can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202406335

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202406335

poses significant challenges, as the kinetics of alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) are approximately two orders of magnitude slower than those in acidic environments.<sup>[3]</sup> Consequently, this disparity leads to suboptimal performance and necessitates the use of high loadings of precious PGM-based electrocatalysts.<sup>[4,5]</sup> Thus, there arises a critical need to explore nonplatinum hydrogen electrocatalysts with enhanced activity and cost-effectiveness to realize high-performance and practical hydrogen energy devices.

Among the array of non-PGM electrocatalysts for HER/HOR in alkaline media, Nibased compounds, such as oxides, sulfides, carbides, selenides, and nitrides, emerge as highly appealing catalysts.<sup>[5–8]</sup> Their distinct d-orbital electron configuration, coupled with earth abundance and potential for cost-effective synthesis, render them particularly attractive. Computational studies by Trasatti and Nørskov et al. have underscored the similarities between metallic Ni and Pt in terms of hydrogen adsorption energies and exchange current densities for HER.<sup>[9,10]</sup> Notably, among Ni derivatives, Ni-nitrides and their heterostructures

hold significant promise, owing to their strong binding capabilities for adsorbates (including atomic hydrogen, protons, or water molecules) and relatively low electrical resistance. However, hexagonal Ni<sub>3</sub>N, in its current state, exhibits sluggish HER/HOR kinetics in alkaline media, primarily attributable to inadequate absorption strengths of active species such as H and H<sub>2</sub>O, resulting in diminished activity. Addressing this challenge necessitates the design of a novel class of Ni<sub>3</sub>N-based catalysts capable of modulating electronic structures to optimize the adsorption behavior of both H and H<sub>2</sub>O, thus enhancing HER/HOR performance, which remains a formidable endeavor.

The augmentation of catalytic performance through heteroatom doping, exemplified by elements such as V, Cr, and Al, is well-documented, as these dopants adeptly tailor the electronic density of active centers. [15,16] Consequently, considerable efforts have been dedicated to the design of electrocatalysts incorporating heteroatoms for catalyzing HER, with competitive electrocatalytic performances observed. Notably, Guo et al.

16136829, 2024, 52, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406335 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrar

demonstrated the efficacy of Ru, P dual-doped NiMoO, multichannel nanorods in modulating the d-band center of the catalyst to enhance its intrinsic HER activity.[17] Thus, the optimization of the electron configuration of Ni-based materials via heteroatom doping holds promise for enhancing catalytic performance. Moreover, heterostructure modification of electrocatalysts facilitates the optimization of electronic structure, electronic transferability, and electron density of active sites, thereby bolstering intrinsic electrocatalytic activities across various electrochemical reactions.[18] Fundamentally, the adsorption and desorption processes of OH species play pivotal roles in the Volmer and Heyrovsky steps of alkaline HER and can be modulated by transition metal oxides with varying oxygen affinities, such as MoO<sub>2</sub>, CeO<sub>2</sub>, and Cr<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>. [19,20] Consequently, coupling metal oxides and heteroatoms with Ni-based materials to construct and modulate heterointerfaces holds considerable promise for enhancing intrinsic electrocatalytic activities. This, in turn, facilitates the reaction kinetics of both HOR and HER in alkaline electrolytes through electron interaction, leveraging the distinctive characteristics of metal oxides and heteroatoms.

Drawing inspiration from these considerations, we fabricated V-doped Ni<sub>3</sub>N nanosheet arrays coated with an amorphous MoO<sub>y</sub> shell grown on nickel foam (denoted as V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>y</sub>/NF) as efficient electrocatalysts to enhance catalytic performance. As anticipated, V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>y</sub>/NF exhibited robust catalytic activity for alkaline HER, showing overpotentials of only 56, 459, and 597 mV at current densities of -10, -500, and -800 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, and demonstrated stability over 80 h under larger current density. Notably, it displayed a significantly reduced Tafel slope of 44.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> compared to Ni3N/NF (138.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF (151.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating optimized reaction kinetics with a markedly decreased water-dissociation energy barrier in alkaline media. When utilized as alkaline HOR electrocatalysts, V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF delivered higher current densities and excellent durability, affirming the potential for realizing efficient hydrogen utilization through HEMFCs. Furthermore, we employed density functional theory (DFT) calculations to identify interaction effects between different components in V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF. Our findings revealed that electronic modulation induced by the interaction between V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N and MoO<sub>4</sub> modified the d-band center of heterostructures, thereby enhancing the optimized adsorption strength of H, H<sub>2</sub>O, and OH species involved in alkaline HER/HOR. Additionally, the intimate heterointerface structure facilitated accelerated H2O dissociation while concurrently lowering energy barriers.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Materials Characterization

The V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF electrocatalyst is synthesized via a sequential process involving continuous hydrothermal reaction, nitridation, and electrodeposition, as illustrated in Figure 1a. Initially, under hydrothermal conditions, uniform V-doped nickel hydroxide nanosheets are formed. This process involves the decomposition of urea, yielding NH<sub>3</sub> and CO<sub>2</sub>, which, in turn, provide OH- ions through the dissociation of NH3 in the aqueous solution.<sup>[16]</sup> The resulting OH<sup>-</sup> ions react with Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions to yield Ni(OH)2, while concurrently, VO3 ions are incorporated into the Ni(OH)2 framework.[21] The resulting V-doped Ni(OH), nanosheets (V-Ni-O/NF), characterized by a thin layer thickness, uniformly coat the nickel foam skeleton (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Subsequent nitridation in NH3 atmosphere leads to the dehydration and nitridation of these metal hydroxides, forming V-doped Ni<sub>2</sub>N nanosheets (V-Ni<sub>2</sub>N/NF). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure S2, Supporting Information) reveal vertically oriented nanosheets crossing each other, forming interconnected nanosheet arrays. Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF (Figure 1b) display intense characteristic peaks corresponding to the crystal planes of hexagonal Ni<sub>3</sub>N (JCPDS No.10-0280), with no discernible phases related to vanadium oxides/nitrides detected. This observation underscores the successful incorporation of V into the Ni<sub>3</sub>N crystal lattice rather than the formation of V-based components.

Following the electrodeposition of an amorphous MoO, layer in an aqueous solution of ammonium paramolybdate, [22] a homogeneous and thin layer uniformly coats the surface of V-doped Ni<sub>3</sub>N nanosheets, yielding the resultant sample of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF. XRD pattern (Figure 1b) of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF exhibits characteristic diffraction peaks of Ni<sub>3</sub>N, albeit with slightly smaller intensities compared to those of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF and Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, potentially attributed to the presence of the MoO<sub>v</sub> layer coating the surface. Notably, no crystalline state for molybdenum compounds is detected in the XRD patterns, suggesting its presence in an amorphous state. Despite the electrochemical deposition process, the ultrathin nanosheet arrays remain intact, although the surface of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF appears coarse, as evidenced by the high-resolution SEM image in Figure 1c. This nanosheet structure is further corroborated by the TEM image in Figure 1d, wherein magnified TEM images (Figure 1e) reveal numerous mesopores ranging from 10 to 20 nm on the nanosheets. The corresponding N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption curve (Figure S3, Supporting Information) displays distinct hysteresis loops at higher relative pressures, indicative of a large number of mesopores, consistent with the pore size distribution curve. The specific surface area of V- $Ni_3N@MoO_x/NF$  is calculated to be 71 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. These nanoscale pores on the virtual nanosheets ensure accessibility to the inner active sites, facilitating electrolyte infiltration and diffusion, thereby enhancing electrocatalytic performance. [23] Additionally, the high-resolution TEM image (Figure 1f,g) reveals an obvious amorphous-crystalline interface, indicating a mixed-crystal character with sufficient interfaces between amorphous and crystalline regions. The interplanar distance of 0.209 nm in the crystalline area (Figure 1g) corresponds to the (111) plane of hexagonal Ni<sub>3</sub>N. Furthermore, distinct diffraction rings observed in the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure 1e) correspond to crystal planes of Ni<sub>3</sub>N. Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDX) mapping (Figure 1h) demonstrates uniform distribution of V, Ni, N, Mo, and O elements across the entire nanosheet arrays, confirming homogeneous dispersion of V element and uniform coating of MoO<sub>x</sub> layer on the surface of V-doped Ni<sub>3</sub>N nanosheets. The EDX spectrum of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF (Figure S4, Supporting Information) reveals an atomic ratio of V:Ni: Mo of 3:83:14. These comprehensive results indicate that amorphous MoO<sub>x</sub> adheres uniformly to the surface of crystalline Ni<sub>3</sub>N nanosheets with uniform V doping.

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF. (a) XRD patterns of Ni3N/NF, V-Ni3N/NF, and V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF. c) SEM, d,e) TEM, and f,g) High-resolution TEM image of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF. Inset in (e) is the SAED. h) EDX element mapping images of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF.

Chemical composition and electronic interactions in the fabricated samples are explored using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As depicted in **Figure 2**[a,](#page-3-0) XPS survey scans unequivocally confirm the presence of all target elements in each sample. The Ni 2p spectrum (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0) of V-Ni3N/NF reveals contributions from Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, encompassing Ni─N peaks (854.9 and 872.6 eV), Ni─O bonds (856.6 and 875.3 eV), and their respective satellites (861.4 and 879.9 eV).[\[24,25\]](#page-8-0) The presence of high-valence Ni─O species is attributed to surface oxidation upon air exposure. Notably, Ni─N peaks of

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. a) XPS survey scan of the synthesized Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF, and MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF. High-resolution XPS survey scan of Ni 2p b), Mo 3d c), N 1s d), O 1s e), and V 2p f). All XPS analysis was performed for the powder samples prepared by the ultrasound from their nickel foam substrate.

V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF exhibit a 0.6 eV shift to lower binding energy compared to Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, indicating increased electron density of Ni atoms upon V doping, underscoring the role of charge redistribution in enhancing electrocatalytic activity. Conversely, Ni 2p peaks of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF shift to higher binding energy by ≈0.4 eV compared to V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, albeit remaining lower than those of Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, confirming significant electron transfer and charge redistribution between V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N and MoO<sub>v</sub>. The decrease in Ni-N bond intensity after electrodeposition is attributed to outer MoO<sub>v</sub> coverage. In addition, the decreased single area of Ni—O in Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>y</sub>/NF should be ascribed to the reduction effect during the electrodeposition process as well as the protection effect of MoO<sub>x</sub> shell to resist surface oxidation.<sup>[15,26,27]</sup>

In V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>y</sub>/NF, the Mo 3d region (Figure 2c) displays fitted peaks (230.1 and 233.3 eV) attributed to Mo<sup>5+</sup> and peaks (231.6 and 234.8 eV) assigned to Mo<sup>6+</sup>, verifying MoO<sub>x</sub> formation post-electrodeposition. [28,29] Importantly, the peak of Mo 3d in V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF shifts negatively by ≈0.6 eV compared to MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF, indicating electron redistribution at heterointerfaces between V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N and MoO, due to their differing electronegativities. In the N 1s region (Figure 2d) of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF and V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF, the binding energy at 397.4 eV corresponds to Ni–N bonds, while the peak emerging at  $\approx$ 400.2 eV is attributed to surface-oxidized nitrogen species.  $[^{30,31}]$  Notably, the N 1s peak of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF shifts to lower binding energy compared to Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF. Furthermore, the negative shift of O 1s peaks (Figure 2e) in V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF relative to MoO<sub>v</sub>/NF cor-

roborates efficient electron transfer from V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N to MoO<sub>v</sub>. The V 2p spectra in Figure 2f exhibit characteristic peaks of V—N bonds at bonding energies of 513.9 and 520.6 eV. The strong peaks at the binding energies of 516.4 and 523.7 eV indicate the presence of high-valence  $V^{\rm n+}$ , possibly originated from surface oxidation when exposed in the air.[32] The absence of V<sup>0</sup> peaks indicates that V atoms are doped into the Ni<sub>3</sub>N lattice, replacing partial Ni rather than forming a Ni-V alloy.[33,34] These XPS observations demonstrate that electron density decreases around V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N and increases around MoO<sub>v</sub>, further intensified by V atom doping. Such interface electron interaction and charge redistribution benefit electrocatalytic reactions. MoO<sub>x</sub> typically exhibits a strong affinity for surface OH-, accelerating the dissociation of H2O to H\* and OH-.[35-37] The electronic interaction at the interface between V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N and MoO<sub>y</sub>, along with the doping effect of V atoms, promotes the adsorption of H\* produced by H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation, expediting H2 formation and boosting the alkaline HER activity of Ni<sub>3</sub>N. Similarly, optimized adsorption energies of OH<sup>-</sup> and H<sup>\*</sup> at the interface between V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N and MoO<sub>x</sub> facilitate the alkaline HOR process.

### 2.2. Electrocatalytic Performance

The electrocatalytic HER behavior of V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N@MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF and reference samples, including Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, V-Ni<sub>3</sub>N/NF, MoO<sub>x</sub>/NF, and V-Ni-O/NF, was initially investigated in a three-electrode

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) HER polarization curves, and b) Comparison of the overpotential at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and Tafel slope of the designed electrocatalysts in 1.0 m KOH. c) Comparison of the overpotential at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and Tafel slope between V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF and reported literatures (Table S1, Supporting Information). d) LSV curves of electrocatalysts normalized to the ECSA. e) H2 TOF values (minimum values) of these electrocatalysts. f) Stability assessments for V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF. g) HOR polarization curves of the designed catalysts without *iR* compensation in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. h) Butler-Volmer plots in the micro-polarization region. Inset is the comparison of *J*<sup>0</sup> derived from Butler-Volmer plots. i) Stability test of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH.

configuration within 1.0 m KOH. Pt/C (20 wt.%) powder coated on nickel foam (Pt/NF), with optimized mass loading (Figure S5, Supporting Information), was selected for comparison purposes. The LSV curves of the electrocatalysts are presented in **Figure 3**a. Notably, V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF, with a MoOx shell, exhibits positively shifted polarization curves compared to other samples, indicating the beneficial effect of multi-component engineering on electrochemical performance. Remarkably, beyond an applied potential of −0.46 V, the cathodic current of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF significantly surpasses that of the Pt/C benchmark. Moreover, it requires only an overpotential of 597 mV to achieve a large current density of −800 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is advantageous for commercial electrocatalytic hydrogen production. Previous studies have shown that introducing higher valence-state V into transition metal nitrides, such as Ni3N and Co4N, can shift the d-band center away from the Fermi level. This downshift weakens hydrogen adsorption, promotes hydrogen desorption, and adjusts the Gibbs free energy of H\* (ΔGH\*) to be closer to the thermoneutral value, leading to improved HER performance.[\[38,39\]](#page-8-0) Thus, the enhanced performance of V-Ni3N/NF compared to Ni3N/NF is attributed to the optimized ΔGH\*, consistent with the negatively shifted binding energy

observed in XPS results. Additionally, the high oxophilicity of amorphous MoOx facilitates water adsorption, accelerating water dissociation in alkaline media, as reported in previous studies.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) Consequently, the engineered V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF demonstrates significantly enhanced HER activity, particularly at higher potentials.

The Tafel slope of the electrocatalysts was determined (Figure S6, Supporting Information) to investigate the reaction kinetics. As depicted in Figure [3b](#page-4-0) and V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF exhibits a lower Tafel slope of 44.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> compared to Ni3N/NF, confirming improved HER kinetics. For PGM-free transition metal-based electrocatalysts, their HER pathways typically follow the Volmer-Heyrovsky mechanism.[\[40–42\]](#page-8-0) The substantial decrease in Tafel slope from 138.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of Ni3N/NF to 44.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF indicates a shift in the ratedetermining step of Ni3N from the Volmer step to the Volmer-Heyrovsky step after V doping and MoOx coupling. This illustrates that the water dissociation step is dramatically expedited after electron redistribution of Ni3N. The impressive HER activity, in terms of overpotential and Tafel slope, positions V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF as one of the top transition metal-based electrocatalysts for HER, comparable to state-of-the-art catalysts, particularly Ni-based ones, as shown in Figure [3c](#page-4-0) and Table S1 (Supporting Information).

The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were conducted to further elucidate the enhanced HER activity. Notably, the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl), which is proportional to ECSA and derived from CVs, is significantly higher for V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF compared to other samples (Figure S7, Supporting Information). This indicates a larger ECSA, suggesting the presence of more exposed active sites. Furthermore, to assess intrinsic electrocatalytic behavior, the LSV curves of these electrocatalysts were normalized by ECSA. As depicted in Figure [3d](#page-4-0) and V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF consistently exhibits higher electrocatalytic activity than other samples. The Nyquist plots (Figure S8, Supporting Information) reveal that V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF possesses a minimum charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) compared to other samples, indicating rapid charge transfer between the electrode and electrolyte during the reaction process. To further evaluate the intrinsic specific activity of the fabricated catalysts, the exchange current density (*J*0) and turnover frequency (TOF) were calculated. The determined *J*0, obtained from the Tafel plot using the extrapolation method, for V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF is 1.09 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S9, Supporting Information), significantly higher than other samples. Additionally, the turnover frequency (TOF) value (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0) of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF exceeds that of the comparative electrocatalysts in the potential region between 0 to −0.2 V, indicating excellent intrinsic activity. These measured results unequivocally demonstrate that rational V doping and MoOx coupling substantially increase the catalytic active sites and intrinsic activity of Ni3N for HER in alkaline media.

Operation stability is another crucial evaluation indicator for electrocatalysts in commercial promotion. As depicted in Figure [3f,](#page-4-0) the overpotentials of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF exhibits minimal fluctuation at different current densities, such as −50, −200, and −100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, in the long-term period. Additionally, in Figure S11 (Supporting Information), the value of *C*dl for V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF after durability testing shows only slight decrease, indicating the maintenance of active sites even after long-term testing. The morphology and structure of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF after durability testing are well preserved, as evidenced by powder XRD and SEM characterization in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). Furthermore, the XPS spectra in Figure S13 (Supporting Information) of N 1s, V 2p, and Mo 4d maintain their original structure after HER testing, while the Ni 2p spectra exhibit evident increases in peak areas related to oxidized Ni species. This observation can be attributed to the inevitable formation of nickel hydr(oxy)oxides on the Ni3N during long-term HER electrochemical operation.[\[43\]](#page-8-0) Importantly, the shifting of binding energy of these target elements is still observed after HER testing, indicating that electron redistribution remains in V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF, which is beneficial for its extraordinary HER performance.

To achieve high-efficiency hydrogen consumption, the alkaline HOR performance of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF was tested in H2 saturated 0.1 m KOH with a rate scan of 1 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> to minimize the capacitive current background (Figure S14, Supporting Information). For comparison, Pt/C (20 wt.%) loaded nickel foam with different catalyst loadings was also measured (Figure S15, Supporting Information). As illustrated in Figure [3g,](#page-4-0) the anodic HOR curves of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF are notably higher than those of other samples, indicating that the doping of V element tailors the intrinsic activity of Ni3N, and the introduction of the MoOx layer further improves the reaction kinetics of Ni3N for HOR in alkaline media. Additionally, the lowest charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) on Nyquist plots (Figure S16, Supporting Information) as well as the largest ECSA determined by *C*dl (Figure S17, Supporting Information) further corroborate the outstanding intrinsic activity of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF. To evaluate their intrinsic activity, the exchange current density (*J*0) of these electrocatalysts was further estimated from the micro-polarization potential window from −20 to 20 mV. As plotted in Figure [3h](#page-4-0) and V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF exhibits a *J*<sup>0</sup> of 1.91 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, significantly higher than other samples. Additionally, after continuous operation at the anodic potential of 0.05 V (Figure [3i\)](#page-4-0), the current density for V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF exhibits little variation, signifying that the integrated electrode of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF is highly stable to resist activity attenuation during long-term operation. After long-term stability test, the SEM image and XRD pattern (Figure S18, Supporting Information) prove that the rough and porous nanosheet-like morphology, as well as the crystal structure of the V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF can be well retained. Further, the XPS results of the V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF after the HOR stability test (Figure S19, Supporting Information) were found to exhibit slight change with the obvious Ni-N and Mo-O signals. These measurements collectively demonstrate that V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF exhibits good catalytic activity and stability for HOR in alkaline electrolyte.

Based on the electrochemical measurements, we can conclude that the MoOx shell provides several key contributions. First, it alters the electronic properties of the underlying V-Ni3N, potentially impacting reaction kinetics and the behavior of active sites. Additionally, the interactions between MoOx and reactants or intermediates may influence the overall catalytic activity. Furthermore, MoOx plays a positive role in stabilizing the V-Ni3N phase and enhancing its structural integrity during reactions.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** DFT analysis on the structure-function relationship. a) 3D charge density of V-Ni3N@MoO2 (the blue and green regions represent electron accumulation and depletion domains, respectively). b) PDOSs of Ni d orbitals in Ni3N, V-Ni3N, and V-Ni3N@MoO2. c) Gibbs free energy schematic plot for the adsorption of H on the surface of Ni3N, V-Ni3N, and V-Ni3N@MoO2. d) Gibbs free energy schematic plot for the adsorption of H2O on the surface of Ni3N, V-Ni3N, and V-Ni3N@MoO2. e) Reaction pathways of Ni3N, V-Ni3N, and V-Ni3N@MoO2 for alkaline HOR; inset: the optimized structure models of the adopted adsorption sites of H\*, H\*-OH\*, and H2O\* on V-Ni3N@MoO2. V, Ni, Mo, N, H, and O atoms are denoted by green, gray, purple, yellow, orange, and red spheres, respectively.

#### **2.3. Theoretical Investigation**

Understanding the reasons behind the improved HER and HOR performance of electrocatalysts is crucial for guiding the rational design and preparation of catalysts. The electrocatalytic behavior of these catalysts is fundamentally governed by their electronic structure. Therefore, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed to elucidate the primary reaction steps occurring on V-Ni3N@MoOx during HER and HOR. In constructing the V-Ni3N@MoOx catalyst, V-doped Ni3N and MoO2 were employed. The 3D charge density of V-Ni3N@MoO2 clearly reveals a charge redistribution around the Ni site induced by V doping and MoO2 coupling (**Figure 4**a), which is in line with the XPS analysis. Through the orbital analysis of partial density of states (PDOS) for Ni3N, V-Ni3N, and V-Ni3N@MoO2 (Figure 4b), it is observed that the d band center of the Ni atom is shifted away from the Fermi level by the cooperative effect of V or MoO2, indicating a much weaker binding capacity for the reaction intermediates. Based on Bader charge analysis, the Ni active site in Ni3N gains 0.13e<sup>−</sup>, consistent with the XPS analysis. This outcome suggests that the V dopant as well as the MoOx layer act as electron donors in the V-Ni3N@MoOx heterointerface. The increased electron density of Ni atoms induced by the charge redistribution is conducive to repelling the electron-rich OH in H2O, thus promoting water dissociation, as well as interacting with H species in the electrolyte, thereby improving the reaction kinetics toward HER.[\[44\]](#page-8-0) However, the hole acceleration on the MoOx layer benefits the adsorption of OH\* to enhance alkaline HOR performance.[\[37,45\]](#page-8-0)

To gain a deeper understanding of the intrinsic activity differences among the fabricated electrocatalysts, the Δ*G*H\* was calculated. It is widely acknowledged that a moderate Δ*G*H\* close to zero is conducive to the preferable adsorption and desorption of H\* on electrocatalysts, contributing to excellent HER and HOR performance. As depicted in Figure 4c and V-Ni3N@MoO2 exhibits a lower Δ*G*H\* compared to that of Ni3N and V-Ni3N, which is consistent with their HER/HOR activity tendency observed in the polarization curves. Moreover, the most favorable adsorption sites for H\* occur on the Ni atoms adjacent to MoO2 at the V-Ni3N@MoO2 interface.

It has been observed that interfacial water molecules on the catalyst surface play a pivotal role in shuffling the intermediates of HOR, a crucial aspect of alkaline HOR electrocatalysis.[\[46,47\]](#page-8-0) For instance, studies by Xu et al. have illustrated that the pHdependent shift of the oxidation peak of underpotential deposited hydrogen originates from the adsorption ability and structure of interfacial water on Pt surfaces.[\[48\]](#page-8-0) Recently, Duan et al. have elucidated that the presence of a hydration layer with isolated cations

<span id="page-7-0"></span>can enhance alkaline HOR activity by modulating the adsorption of reaction intermediates on Pt surfaces with the assistance of water molecules.[\[49\]](#page-8-0) Conversely, surface water adsorption is also critical for subsequent H2O dissociation during HER.[\[50,51\]](#page-8-0) The values of water adsorption free energy (ΔGH2O\*) for electrocatalysts were further computed (Figure [4d\)](#page-6-0), revealing that interface coupling significantly enhances the water adsorption ability of V-Ni3N@MoO2.

Moreover, the reaction pathways of Ni3N, V-Ni3N, and V-Ni3N@MoO2 for alkaline HOR/HER were further investigated (Figure [4e\)](#page-6-0). Typically, the first step involves the adsorption of OH\* or H\* on the catalyst surface, as clearly depicted in Figure S20 (Supporting Information). Subsequent steps include the formation of OH\* + H\*, water, and the desorption of water for Ni3N, all of which are endothermic, suggesting that the water formation step is the potential-determining step (PDS). However, upon interaction with V and MoO2, the PDS for V-Ni3N@MoO2 shifts to the water desorption step with significantly decreased endothermic energy. Therefore, it can be inferred that hybridization through atom doping and interface coupling weakens the hydrogen adsorption free energy and promotes the water adsorption free energy on V-Ni3N@MoO2. This, along with the changed PDS from the water formation step to water desorption, is responsible for the enhanced alkaline HOR/HER kinetics.

Based on the comprehensive activity investigation and mechanism study conducted above, a plausible reaction pathway for V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF is proposed. In the proposed HER pathway of V-Ni3N@MoOx, the Ni species within V-Ni3N serve as the active sites for hydrogen adsorption, with the Ni─H interaction optimized by the interface electron redistribution. Concurrently, the MoOx component facilitates the adsorption of H2O/OH at the Volmer step, thereby contributing to the enhanced HER performance. Similarly, for the HOR mechanism of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF, the hole-accumulated MoOx promotes the adsorption of H2O/OH and accelerates the Volmer step, while the nearby V-Ni3N acts as the sites for hydrogen adsorption. The synergistic effect between V-Ni3N and MoOx at heterostructures enhances the kinetics of water formation, thereby facilitating the HOR process. Consequently, the improved HER and HOR performance of V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF is attributed to the enhanced water dissociation kinetics, optimized H adsorption energy on Ni3N through V doping and MoOx coupling-induced electron redistribution, and the facilitation of H2O adsorption in alkaline solution by MoOx. The abundant interfaces between V-Ni3N and MoOx further provide sufficient active sites for rapid reactions.

## **3. Conclusion**

This study presents the synthesis of hierarchical V-Ni3N@MoOx/NF as highly efficient electrocatalysts for both the HER and HOR processes in alkaline electrolytes. The remarkable activity and enhanced durability of V-Ni3N@MoOx are primarily attributed to the structural advantages of nanosheets and strong electronic interactions. Specifically, the V dopants act as electron donors, while the MoOx shell facilitates charge redistribution, collectively increasing the electron density at the Ni active sites within the heterointerface between V-Ni3N and MoOx. DFT calculations further support these findings, revealing optimal values for H and H2O adsorption on V- Ni3N@MoOx. Moreover, the rational heterointerface structure promotes water dissociation and formation, as evidenced by DFT results. The outstanding electrocatalytic activity and stability of V-Ni3N@MoOx position it as a promising candidate for highly efficient and active hydrogen production and consumption via electrochemical methods.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22105108, 22179065).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

electronic interaction, hydrogen evolution, hydrogen oxidation, interface engineering, nickel nitrides

> Received: July 25, 2024 Revised: October 10, 2024 Published online: October 28, 2024

16136829, 2024, 52, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202406335 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] Y. Yang, P. Li, X. Zheng, W. Sun, S. X. Dou, T. Ma, H. Pan, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2022**, *51*, 9620.
- [2] J.-T. Ren, L. Chen, H.-Y. Wang, Y. Feng, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 3960.
- [3] T. Tang, L. Ding, Z. C. Yao, H. R. Pan, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2107479.
- [4] E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 6665.
- [5] Y. Li, X. Bao, D. Chen, Z. Wang, N. Dewangan, M. Li, Z. Xu, J. Wang, S. Kawi, Q. Zhong, *ChemCatChem* **2019**, *11*, 5913.
- [6] Y. Yan, B. Y. Xia, B. Zhao, X. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 17587.
- [7] X. Zheng, X. Han, Y. Zhang, J. Wang, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Nanoscale* **2019**, *11*, 5646.
- [8] V. Vij, S. Sultan, A. M. Harzandi, A. Meena, J. N. Tiwari, W.-G. Lee, T. Yoon, K. S. Kim, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 7196.
- [9] J. Greeley, J. K. Nørskov, L. A. Kibler, A. M. El-Aziz, D. M. Kolb, *ChemPhysChem* **2006**, *7*, 1032.
- [10] S. Trasatti, *J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem.* **1972**, *39*, 163.
- [11] W. Ni, A. Krammer, C. S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, A. Schuler, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 7445.
- [12] J.-T. Ren, Y.-S. Wang, Y.-J. Song, L. Chen, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *309*, 121279.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

*Res.* **2022**, *3*, 2100189. [14] Y. Jin, L. Su, H. Jia, Y. Men, W. Luo, *ChemCatChem* **2023**, *15*, 202300056.

[13] L. Huo, C. Jin, K. Jiang, Q. Bao, Z. Hu, J. Chu, *Adv. Energy Sustainability*

- [15] L. Yang, R. Liu, L. Jiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1909618.
- [16] N. Yao, P. Li, Z. Zhou, Y. Zhao, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1902449.
- [17] L. Guo, J. Chi, J. Zhu, T. Cui, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *320*, 121977.
- [18] J.-T. Ren, X.-M. Wu, T. Liu, L. Chen, R. Hao, Y.-J. Song, Y.-P. Liu, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *317*, 121786.
- [19] H. Wang, W. Zhan, S. Jiang, K. Deng, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, H. Yu, L. Wang, *ChemSusChem* **2024**, *17*, 202400624.
- [20] X. Wang, G. Long, B. Liu, Z. Li, W. Gao, P. Zhang, H. Zhang, X. Zhou, R. Duan, W. Hu, C. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202301562.
- [21] L. Chen, H. Y. Wang, W. W. Tian, L. Wang, M. L. Sun, J. T. Ren, Z. Y. Yuan, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2307252.
- [22] J.-C. Liu, H. Li, M. Batmunkh, X. Xiao, Y. Sun, Q. Zhao, X. Liu, Z.-H. Huang, T.-Y. Ma, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 23941.
- [23] J. Wang, N. Zang, C. Xuan, B. Jia, W. Jin, T. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2104620.
- [24] M. Gao, L. Chen, Z. Zhang, X. Sun, S. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 833.
- [25] T. Wang, L. Miao, S. Zheng, H. Qin, X. Cao, L. Yang, L. Jiao, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4091.
- [26] M. B. Kale, R. A. Borse, A. Gomaa Abdelkader Mohamed, Y. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2101313.
- [27] X. Li, Y. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Da, J. Zhang, L. Li, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, X. Han, W. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003414.
- [28] L. He, W. Zhang, Q. Mo, W. Huang, L. Yang, Q. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 3544.
- [29] J. Lu, S. Chen, Y. Zhuo, X. Mao, D. Liu, Z. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2308191.
- [30] Z. Qi, Y. Zeng, Z. Hou, W. Zhu, B. Wei, Y. Yang, B. Lin, H. Liang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *16*, 4803.
- [31] F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, P. Liao, Y. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4531.

- [32] J. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Li, X. Jin, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Y. Wang, A. El-Harairy, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, H. Zhang, M. Cheng, S. Zeng, G. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 3881.
- [33] H. Zhang, J. Wang, F. Qin, H. Liu, C. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2021**, *14*, 3489.
- [34] Q. Zhou, J. Wang, G. Jin, H. Liu, C. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 12475.
- [35] J.-T. Ren, L. Wang, L. Chen, X.-L. Song, Q.-H. Kong, H.-Y. Wang, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2206196.
- [36] Y. Kwon, D. Hong, J.-H. Jang, M. Kim, S. Oh, D. Song, J. Lim, S. J. Yoo, E. Cho, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *332*, 122740.
- [37] H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211854.
- [38] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 5076.
- [39] B. Zhang, J. Wang, J. Liu, L. Zhang, H. Wan, L. Miao, J. Jiang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 9332.
- [40] N. Dubouis, A. Grimaud, *Chem. Sci.* **2019**, *10*, 9165.
- [41] A. Lasia, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2019**, *44*, 19484.
- [42] A. Eftekhari, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2017**, *42*, 11053.
- [43] R.-Q. Li, Q. Liu, Y. Zhou, M. Lu, J. Hou, K. Qu, Y. Zhu, O. Fontaine, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 4159.
- [44] B. You, Y. Zhang, Y. Jiao, K. Davey, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 11796.
- [45] Y. Zhang, C. Ma, X. Zhu, K. Qu, P. Shi, L. Song, J. Wang, Q. Lu, A. L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2301492.
- [46] S. A. Giles, J. C. Wilson, J. Nash, B. Xu, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *J. Catal.* **2018**, *367*, 328.
- [47] K. Zhao, X. Chang, H. S. Su, Y. Nie, Q. Lu, B. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202207197.
- [48] X. Yang, J. Nash, N. Oliveira, Y. Yan, B. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 17718.
- [49] A. H. Shah, Z. Zhang, Z. Huang, S. Wang, G. Zhong, C. Wan, A. N. Alexandrova, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 923.
- [50] E. Liu, L. Jiao, J. Li, T. Stracensky, Q. Sun, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *Energy*
- *Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3064. [51] L. F. Shen, B. A. Lu, Y. Y. Li, J. Liu, Z. C. Huang-Fu, H. Peng, J. Y. Ye,
- X. M. Qu, J. M. Zhang, G. Li, W. B. Cai, Y. X. Jiang, S. G. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 22397.