---
source: Samanta 等 - 2021 - Interface‐ and Surface‐Engineered PdO−RuO2 Hetero‐Nanostructures with High Activity for H.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.898s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:18:32.449165Z
---

# Interface- and Surface-Engineered PdO—RuO<sub>2</sub> Hetero-Nanostructures with High Activity for Hydrogen Evolution/Oxidation Reactions

Rajib Samanta, [a] Ranjit Mishra, [a] and Sudip Barman\*[a]

Active catalysts for HER/HOR are crucial to develop hydrogenbased renewable technologies. The interface of hetero-nanostructures can integrate different components into a single synergistic hybrid with high activity. Here, the synthesis of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>-C with abundant interfaces/defects was achieved for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR). It exhibited a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 44 mV with a Tafel slope of 34 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in 1 M KOH. The HER mass activity was 3 times higher in base and comparable to Pt/C in acid. The stability test confirmed high HER stability. The catalyst also exhibited excellent HOR activity in both media; in alkaline HOR it outperformed Pt/C. The exchange current density  $i_{0,m}$  of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C was 522 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> in base, which is 58 and 3.4 times higher than those of Pd/C and Pt/C. The HOR activity of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C was 22 and 300 times higher than those of PdO/C in acid and base. Improve-

ment of HER/HOR kinetics in different alkaline electrolytes was observed in the order K<sup>+</sup> < Na<sup>+</sup> < Li<sup>+</sup>, and increase of HER as well decrease of HOR kinetics was observed with increasing Li<sup>+</sup> concentration. It was proposed that  $OH_{ad}-M^+-(H_2O)_x$  in the double-layer region could influence HER/HOR activity in base. Based on the hard and soft acid and base (HSAB) theory, the OH<sub>ads</sub>-M<sup>+</sup>-(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>x</sub> could help to remove more OH<sub>ads</sub> into the bulk, leading to increase in HER/HOR activity in alkaline electrolyte (K<sup>+</sup> < Na<sup>+</sup> < Li<sup>+</sup>) and increasing the HER with increasing Li<sup>+</sup> concentration. The decrease of HOR activity of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C with increasing M<sup>+</sup> was due to M<sup>+</sup>-induced OH<sub>ads</sub> destabilization through the bifunctional mechanism. The high HER/HOR activity of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C could be attributed, among other factors, to interface engineering and strong synergistic interaction. This work provides an opportunity to design oxidebased catalysts for renewable energy technologies.

#### Introduction

In recent times, electrolyzers and fuel cells, which are feasible alternatives to fossil fuels-based technologies, have gained enormous attention among the scientific community due to growing environmental issues and energy demand.[1] Hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) is one of the fuels for hydrogen fuel cells, and it combines there with oxygen to produce electricity. [2] The hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) takes place at the cathode of electrolyzers to produce pure hydrogen,[3] whereas the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) takes place at the anode surface of fuel cells.<sup>[4]</sup> Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) operate at low pH and provide high power density but need a large amount of Pt for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Anionic exchange membrane (AEM) fuel cells operate at high pH and offer an alternative to PEMFCs because earth-abundant transition metal-based catalysts are used as catalysts for ORR and oxygen evolution reaction (OER).<sup>[5a,b]</sup> Pt is the state-of-theart catalyst<sup>[6]</sup> for HOR in fuel cells and also for HER of electrolyzers. Apart from Pt, other noble metals such as Rh, Ir and Ru are also good electrocatalyst for HER<sup>[7a,b,c,d,e]</sup> in acid. The poor HER/HOR activity and stability of commercial Pt/C in alkaline AEM-based technologies are the main problems, and its activity in base is still 2-3 times lower than that in acid media. Hence, in base media a large amount of metal is required to produce the same electricity as in acid media. Therefore, finding new HER/HOR electrocatalyst is essential for the commercialization of AEMFCs. In order to design and develop new robust HER/HOR electrocatalysts for alkaline media, understanding of HER/HOR mechanism for alkaline media is essential. In acid media, HOR is a two-step process: the first step is the formation of a M-H<sub>ads</sub> intermediate resulting from dissociative adsorption of H<sub>2</sub> on metal and, the second step is the formation H<sup>+</sup> from the M-H<sub>ads</sub> intermediate. [8a,b] The rate of HER is generally influenced by several steps such as dissociation of water on the metal surface forming H<sub>ads</sub> and OH<sub>ads</sub>, H<sub>2</sub> production by the recombination of two Hads and OHads desorption. [9] The hydrogen binding energy (HBE) is a sole descriptor for HOR in acidic media. [8a,10a,b] But the sluggish HOR in alkaline media was explained by two conflicting mechanisms: (i) effect of HBE of metal, [8b,11a,b] and (ii) oxophilicity of metal. [9,12a,b] There is another probability for HOR in alkaline media, where adsorbed hydroxyl, OH<sub>ads</sub>, reacts with M–H<sub>ads</sub> intermediate to form water.<sup>[13]</sup> However, the exact catalytic role of the OH<sup>-</sup> ions is not obvious for alkaline media HER/HOR. Wang et al.[14] suggested that oxophilicity of the metal surfaces does not have any significant role for HOR activity in alkaline media since HOR of PtRu catalyst in basic solution is 2 times higher than that of Pt catalyst although the onset potential for OH<sup>-</sup> adsorption of Pt is

2112

 <sup>[</sup>a] R. Samanta, R. Mishra, Dr. S. Barman
School of Chemical Science
National Institute of Science Education and Research (NISER), HBNI
Bhubaneswar, Bhimpur-Padanpur, Via Jatni, Khurda, Odisha 752050 (India)
E-mail: sbarman@niser.ac.in

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202100200

lower. Durst et al.[8b] showed that HBE is the sole descriptor for HER/HOR in alkaline media. Yan and co-workers[11a] reported a volcano-shaped plot for HER/HOR activities vs. HBE of various monometallic metals and also concluded HBE is the main descriptor for the HER/HOR. Zheng et al.[8a] studied the HOR/ HER activity over four different carbon-supported metal (Pt, Ir, Pd, Rh) catalysts in different pH solutions and also concluded that HBE is sole descriptor for the alkaline HOR. Our group[11b] also showed that HBE is a sole descriptor for HOR in basic solution. Strmcnik et al.[9] showed that oxophilicity of the metal catalysts plays a crucial role to define the HER/HOR performance in alkaline media and showed that poor availability of the OHads intermediate on the catalyst surface is the reason for sluggish HOR kinetics in alkaline media. The HOR activity was enhanced when Pt was integrated with oxophilic metals such as Ni, and a bifunctional mechanism was proposed to explain the enhanced HER/HOR activity. Koper and co-workers[15] observed that interfacial water reorganization was a descriptor for hydrogen evolution on Pt electrode, and they proposed the potential of zero free charges (pzfc) theory. The position of under potential deposited hydrogen (UPD-H) peak and the change of pzfc for the Pt surfaces changed in the same way. Although several groups reported the HOR mechanism for basic medium in the literature, further studies are still necessary to understand the HOR/HER mechanism for alkaline medium. Platinum-based electrocatalysts are generally the preferred choice for electrochemical reactions of fuel cells and electrolyzer because of the very high activity and stability of Pt. The scarcity of Pt is the main obstacle for their commercialization. Thus, there is a need for an alternative catalyst with comparable activity and low cost. Pd could be a feasible alternative[16] to Pt due to its similar electronic structure, more abundance, and higher CO tolerance. Pronkin et al.[17] reported that the HOR exchange current density of Pd catalyst, measured by gas diffusion method, was 2 times lower than that of Pt/C. Several strategies were reported to improve the electrocatalytic performance of Pd catalysts such as formation of bimetallic catalysts of Pd with other metals,[18a,b,c] supporting Pd or PdO on other metals oxides,[19] and others. Metal oxide and composite of two metal oxides[19,20a,b] are generally known as active catalysts for electrochemical OER[7a] and ORR processes. It is reported that strong interaction between PdO and other metal oxides modifies the electronic structure[20a] of Pd, leading to excellent ORR and OER activities. The interface between two different phases of a catalyst can play a crucial role for unusual catalytic performance in catalyzing reactions.[21a,b] For example, the CO oxidation reaction at Au/TiO2 catalyst[22] proceeds at the interface between Au and TiO2 (CO adsorption occurs at Au and O2 adsorption occurs at TiO2). Wang et al.[23] noticed that enhanced HER activity of Pt Ni nanowires was achieved through phase and interface engineering of the catalyst. Xi and co-workers[24] reported the synthesis of FeS2/CoS2 interface nanostructured composite with plenty of defects, which showed superior catalytic activities toward both HER and OER in alkaline media. Metal oxides are traditionally inactive towards HER. In recent years, some progress was achieved for alkaline HER using metal oxide-based catalysts,[25] and very few oxide electrocatalysts for HER in acid media were developed by creating oxygen vacancies in metal oxide or doping of metals/ non-metals in oxides. The HER activity and stability of oxide catalysts are still inferior to commercial Pt/C in both acid and base media. Although some reports for HER activity of oxidebased catalyst are known, there is no report of oxide electrocatalysts for HOR to the best of our knowledge.

Herein, we report a facile preparation method for interfaceengineered PdO RuO2/nitrogen-doped carbon composite (PdO RuO2/C). This catalyst showed superior activity for HER and HOR in both base and acid media. The RuO2 promotes the dissociation of H2O at the interface to form Hads and OHads. The interfaces and defects provide the active site for Hads and OHads. The HBE and OH adsorption (OHads) are the two descriptors for alkaline HOR/HER. The HER and HOR activities of this catalyst increase in different alkali metal electrolytes in the order of LiOH*>*NaOH*>*KOH. The adsorbed hydroxy-metal ion-water species [OHads M<sup>+</sup> (H2O)*x*] present in the double-layer region helps to remove OHads into the bulk according to hard and soft acid and base (HSAB) theory, leading to enhanced HER activity with increasing amount of Li<sup>+</sup> ions. However, the HOR activity of this catalyst decreases with Li<sup>+</sup> ion concentration because of the bifunctional mechanism. The very high HER and HOR activity of this catalyst is due to interface engineering, synergetic interaction among different components, porous morphology, high electrochemical surface area, and other factors.

## **Results and Discussion**

#### **Characterization**

The PdO RuO2/C hybrid was synthesized by two facile steps: (1) small Pd and Ru metal nanostructures stabilized on nitrogendoped carbon (N@C) support (Pd-RuNSs/C) were produced by simple sodium borohydride reduction of PdCl2 and RuCl3 in the presence of N@C; (2) Pd-RuNSs/C was heated at 400°C in the muffle furnace for 180 min to form PdO RuO2/C (see the Supporting Information for details). The PdO/C was also synthesized under similar experimental conditions. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of as-synthesized PdO/C and PdO RuO2/C hybrids are presented in Figure 1a. The XRD pattern of PdO/C showed the presence of several peaks at 2*θ* values of 33.29, 33.95, 41.7, 54.36, 60.05, 71.31°, which can be indexed to (002), (011), (110), (112), (013), (211) planes of tetragonal PdO. No diffraction peak for metallic Pd in PdO/C composite suggested the complete conversion of Pd into PdO on heating at 400°C.

In addition to the diffraction peaks of tetragonal PdO, other peaks corresponding to (110), (101), (200), (120), (220), (301), (321) planes of rutile RuO2 are also observed in the p-XRD pattern of PdO RuO2/C composite. The theoretical JCPDS data of tetragonal PdO (JCPDS No. 06-0515) and rutile RuO2 (JCPDS No. 88-0322) are also given in Figure 1a for comparison. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD patterns of PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C hybrids. (b) Representative TEM (low resolution) image of PdO RuO2/C. (c) SAED image of PdO RuO2/C. (d) HRTEM image of the composite. (e, f) Enlarged views of the HRTEM images of PdO RuO2/C.

done to examine the surface structures and interfaces between PdO and RuO2 components in PdO RuO2/C.

The TEM images of PdO RuO2/C composite are presented in Figure 1b and Figure S1a–d. These images showed that thin sheet-like nanostructures are self-assembled and are interconnected to form hierarchical structures. The self-assembled nanostructures are interconnected to form a hierarchically porous structure with a large number of corners, grains, interface, electron transfer pathways, and easily accessible active catalytic sites for electrochemical reactions. The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) image of PdO RuO2/C shows a polycrystalline structure (Figure 1c). The *d*-spacings were calculated from the SAED image, with values of 2.7, 1.96, 1.69, 1.33 Å assigned to (002), (012), (112), (211) planes of tetragonal PdO. The (110), (200) planes of rutile RuO2 are also observed in the SAED image. The high-resolution (HR)TEM image of PdO RuO2/ C hybrid is provided in Figure 1d–f and Figure S2. The lattice fringes with *d*-spacing of 2.7 and 3.3 Å can be assigned to the (200) and (110) planes of PdO and RuO2, respectively. The continuous lattice fringes suggest the epitaxial growth of RuO2 on PdO nanostructures or vice versa. In the HRTEM images, the interface boundary between PdO and RuO2 can be seen easily. The PdO and RuO2 nanostructures grown on the surface of each other show intimate contact between RuO2 and PdO, leading to abundant interface structure. In some boundaries between RuO2 and PdO nanostructures, there are no clear lattice fringes observed in the HRTEM image (Figure S2), suggesting the presence of amorphous regions in those interfaces. In addition, various defects are observed in the HRTEM images (Figure S2d,e) of this PdO RuO2/C composite. The interfaces and

defects, which are one of the characteristics of the catalyst, may act as active catalytic sites for electrochemical HER and HOR reactions. Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping are provided in Figure S3. It showed that Pd, Ru, and O are distributed uniformly over the entire PdO RuO2/C hybrid. The field-emission (FE)SEM image of the PdO RuO2/C hybrid is given in Figure 2a and Figure S3g, showing the porous morphology of the catalyst. In order to understand the mechanism of formation of these unique surface-engineered heterostructures, we performed several control experiments. The p-XRD, TEM, and SAED pattern of room-temperature Pd-RuNSs/C hybrid are provided in Figure S4a–d. The p-XRD pattern shows the diffraction peaks of both Pd and Ru metals, and the TEM images showed that Pd and Ru nanoparticles are dispersed well on the carbon layers. The HRTEM image in Figure S4e–g showed the *d*-spacing of 2.3 and 2.1 Å corresponding to (111) and (101) planes of Pd and Ru metal, confirming the presence of Pd and Ru metal in the hybrid (Pd-RuNSs/C). The elemental mappings of Pd-RuNSs/C in Figure S5 showed that the Pd and Ru are well dispersed on the carbon layer.

As shown in Figure S6, TEM, SAED, and HRTEM images of PdO/C confirmed the formation of tetragonal PdO on heating. The formation of rutile RuO2 was reported by our group[7a] where only Ru precursor was used for synthesis. In the roomtemperature compound, Pd RuNSs/C, both Pd and Ru nanoparticles are well dispersed on the carbon support. When Pd RuNSs/C was heated, PdNSs and RuNSs were oxidized to form PdO and RuO2 nuclei on carbon support, respectively. Then, growth and self-assembly led to the formation of the

**Figure 2.** (a) FESEM image of PdO RuO2/C. (b) Comparison of Pd3d XPS spectra of PdO RuO2/C and Pd-RuNSs/C composites. (c) Deconvoluted Ru3d XPS spectra of PdO RuO2/C composite. (d) O1 s XPS spectra of PdO RuO2/C.

PdO RuO2/C composite. After heat treatment in the air, the interface engineering was achieved to transform the Ru Pd nanostructures into unique PdO RuO2 hetero-nanostructures.

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) survey scan spectra of PdO RuO2/C and Pd-RuNSs/C composite in Figure S7a,b show the presence of C, N, Pd, Ru, and O. The small N1 s peak in the survey scan shows the presence of a small amount of nitrogen in PdO RuO2/C composite. The highresolution Pd3d XPS spectrum of PdO RuO2/C is compared with the Pd-RuNSs/C composite in Figure 2b. In the 3d XPS spectrum of room-temperature compound Pd-RuNSs/C, the two peaks at 335.4 and 340.7 eV are assigned to 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd<sup>0</sup> , confirming the metallic Pd<sup>0</sup> in Pd RuNSs/C composite, whereas two peaks at 337.0 and 342.4 eV of the Pd3d XPS spectrum can be attributed to 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of PdO. The absence of a peak at approximately 335 eV confirmed that there is no Pd-metal present in PdO RuO2/C, which is in agreement with XRD and TEM studies. As shown in Figure 2c, the Ru3d XPS spectrum of PdO RuO2/C composite was deconvoluted into seven peaks. The peaks at 280.6 and 282.6 eV can be attributed to RuO2 and RuO*<sup>x</sup>* species whereas the peaks at 284.5, 287.6, 288.7 eV are due to the C1 s peak of sp<sup>2</sup> hybridized carbon and the C1 s peak of oxygen-containing functional groups. The deconvoluted Ru3d XPS spectrum of Pd-RuNSs/C is given in Figure S7c. The two peaks of the O1 s XPS spectrum of PdO RuO2/C composite were fitted with six peaks (Figure 2d). The peaks at 529.1 and 530.1 eV are attributed to Ru O and Pd O, respectively, whereas the peak at 531.5 eV can be assigned to oxygen vacancies.[26] The presence of this oxygen vacancy peak in the O1 s XPS spectrum is of great importance as it may play an important role in enhancing catalytic activities. The peaks at 533.1 and 533.9 eV can be assigned to the surfaceadsorbed OH group and 3p3/2 of PdO. The broad peak at 335.2 eV may be attributed to the O2 anions and oxygencontaining functional groups. The anions, O2 on the PdO surface may be formed due to the accumulation of a layer near the PdO surface resulting from the transfer of electron from the surface of PdO to adsorbed O2 molecules, and this leads to enhanced conductivity of PdO. The metal loading in PdO RuO2/ C was measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES). The metal loading was found to be 56 wt%, and the Pd/Ru ratio in this PdO RuO2/C composite was 4:1. The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of this PdO RuO2/ C composite was measured by CO stripping experiment (see Figure S10) and found to be 119 and 102 m2g <sup>1</sup> in acid and base, respectively.

### **HER performance of PdO RuO2/C in base and acid**

The catalytic performance of PdO RuO2/C composite was first examined for electrochemical hydrogen evolution in N2 saturated 1 m KOH solution. We have used linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) to determine the HER performance of the catalyst.

As shown in Figure 3a, the LSV curve of PdO RuO2/C catalyst for HER in 1 m KOH solution is compared with comm.

**Figure 3.** HER performance of different catalysts in base: (a) LSV curves of PdO RuO2/C, Pd Ru NSs/C, PdO/C, RuO2/C, comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C in 1 m KOH. Comparison of (b) *J*, (c) SA and (d) MA of PdO RuO2/C, Pd RuNSs/C, comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C. (e) Tafel plots for PdO RuO2/C, Pd/RuNSs/C, comm. Pt/C, comm. Pd/C. (f) Stability (chronoamperometry) tests of PdO RuO2/C and comm. Pt/C.

Pt/C, comm. Pd/C, Pd RuNSs/C, PdO/C, and RuO2/C catalysts. This showed that PdO RuO2/C, comm. Pt/C and Pd-RuNSs/C have superior HER performances as these catalysts exhibited significant current densities at low overpotential with an onset potential of 0 V, but HER activities of PdO/C and comm. Pd/C electrodes were poor. The HER activity of GC electrode and N@C support is very low (data not shown). In comparison to comm. Pt/C catalyst, the PdO RuO2/C composite needed an appreciably lower overpotential to reach any current density. In alkaline 1 m KOH solution, the overpotential needed for PdO RuO2/C to achieve 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> current density is 44 mV, whereas the required overpotentials for comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C are 90.2 and 298.8 mV, respectively (Figure 3 and Table S1). We have measured the mass activity (MA) and surface activity (SA) at 0.1 V. The geometrical current density (*J*), SA, and MA at overpotential of 0.1 V of PdO RuO2/C are compared with comm. Pd/C and comm. Pt/C catalysts (Figure 3b–d). *J*, SA, and MA of PdO RuO2/C at 0.1 V are 33.67 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , 1.644 mAcm <sup>2</sup> metal and 1.68 mAmg <sup>1</sup> metal, respectively. The MA, SA, and current density of PdO RuO2/C are 17, 16.7, and 16 times higher than that of comm. Pd/C whereas the *J*, SA, MA of PdO RuO2/C are 3.0, 1.37, and approximately 3.2 times higher than that of comm. Pt/C, respectively. The plot of log [*J*] vs. potential (Tafel plot) for Pt/C, PdO RuO2/C and Pd Ru-NSs/C is provided in Figure 3e. The Tafel slope of PdO RuO2/C (34 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) is much lower than that of comm. Pt/C (96.4 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) and comm. Pd/C (213 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ). We also used electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) to calculate

the HER Tafel slope of the PdO RuO2/C in 1 m KOH solution. The EIS spectra and corresponding log *R*ct <sup>1</sup> (charge transfer resistance) vs overpotential plot of PdO RuO2/C and Pd-RuNSs/ C are given in Figure S9a–d, respectively. The Tafel slopes of PdO RuO2/C and Pd-RuNSs/C are 36.45 and 62.02 mVdec <sup>1</sup> respectively. The small Tafel slope value of PdO RuO2/C indicates fast HER kinetics in the basic medium in comparison to other catalysts. The exchange current density *i*<sup>0</sup> of a catalyst is an important kinetic parameter. The *i*<sup>0</sup> value for PdO RuO2/C catalyst in 1 m KOH medium is 1.33 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is higher than that of comm. Pt/C (1.05 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ). The HER activities of PdO RuO2/C catalysts, prepared at different temperatures and varying Ru-loading are also shown in Figure S11. The good long-term stability of a HER catalyst is essential for its commercialization of AEMFCs. The stability of the catalysts was investigated by chronopotentiometric measurement at a constant current density of 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . The PdO RuO2/C showed very good stability in comparison to comm. Pt/C (Figure 3f). We have characterized the PdO RuO2/C catalyst after 24 h stability test. The comparison of p-XRD pattern of PdO RuO2/C before and after stability is given in Figure S8a whereas TEM, HRTEM, and SAED images are shown in Figure S8b–d,f, respectively. The p-XRD and SAED image indicate the presence of PdO and RuO2. The HRTEM image confirmed the presence of PdO and RuO2. This proved that structure and morphology of the catalyst remained unaltered after stability. In alkaline media, the HER performance of PdO RuO2/C is compared with recently reported noble metal-based catalysts,[7b,11b,27] other non-noble

metal catalysts (Table S3). It showed that the  $PdO-RuO_2/C$  catalyst is one of the best electrocatalysts. We have also studied HER performance of  $PdO-RuO_2/C$  composite in acid media, and the comparison of HER performances of different catalysts in 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4$  solution is provided in Figure 4a.

The current density, SA, and MA values at  $-0.1 \, \text{V}$  for PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C are comparable to comm. Pt/C and is better than Pd-RuNSs/C and comm. Pd/C (Figure 4c–e). This shows that HER performances of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C, comm. Pt/C are comparable in acid media. The Tafel slope value of the PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C (Figure 4b) in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> was found to be 31 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, suggesting that HER follows the Volmer-Tafel pathway and the rate-determining step is the Tafel step. The exchange current density of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C and commercial Pt/C was 2.6 and 2.13 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> medium. The stability test (chronopotentiometric measurements at a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) shows that PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst is highly stable in H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> medium (Figure 4f). A HER comparison table of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C in acidic media with other reported catalysts is provided in Table S4.

#### HOR study on PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C at different pH values

Highly active HOR catalysts are crucial for the development of hydrogen-based fuel cells. Acid and base environments are used in PEMFCs and AMFCs, respectively. We used the rotating

disk electrode (RDE) method for the HOR performance of  $PdO-RuO_2/C$  catalyst.

Figure 5a,b represents HOR polarization curves (at different rotation speeds) for PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M solution of HClO<sub>4</sub> and KOH, respectively. There are three regimes in HOR polarization curves: (i) kinetically controlled regime, (ii) kinetically as well as diffusion-controlled regime, and (iii) mass-controlled limiting regime. The hydrogen mass transport limiting current density  $j_1$  is gradually increased upon increasing rotation speed. In the RDE method,  $j_1$  is a summation of kinetic current density  $j_k$  and diffusion current density  $j_d$ . The  $j_k$  can easily be obtained from the following Koutecky-Levich (K–L) equation [Eq. (1)]:<sup>[10a]</sup>

$$\frac{1}{j_1} = \frac{1}{j_k} + \frac{1}{j_d} = \frac{1}{j_k} + \frac{1}{BC_0 \ \omega^{1/2}}$$
 (1)

where  $j_d$  is defined according to Equation (2):

$$j_{\rm d} = 0.62 nFD^{2/3} \nu^{-1/6} C_0 \omega^{1/2} = BC_0 \omega^{1/2}$$
 (2)

where n, F,  $\omega$ , and D are the number of electrons, Faraday constant, rotation speed [rpm], and diffusion coefficient [cm² s⁻¹] of the reactant, respectively,  $C_0$  is the  $H_2$  concentration in the solution, and  $\nu$  is the viscosity [cm² s⁻¹] of the medium.  $BC_0$  is related to the number of electrons transferred in the oxidation reaction, diffusivity, and concentration of the gas, and the kinematic viscosity of the electrolyte.

Figure 4. HER performance of different catalysts in acid: (a) LSV curves of PdO–RuO $_2$ /C, Pd–RuNSs/C, PdO/C, RuO $_2$ /C, comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C in 0.5 M H $_2$ SO $_4$ . (b) Tafel plot of PdO–RuO $_2$ /C, Pd/RuNSs/C, comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C. Comparison of (c) J, (d) SA and (e) MA of PdO–RuO $_2$ /C, Pd–RuNSs/C, comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C. (f) Stability (chronoamperometry) tests of PdO–RuO $_2$ /C and comm. Pt/C at constant current of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ . For all catalysts metal loading was 20 μg cm $^{-2}$ .

www.chemsuschem.org

Figure 5. HER/HOR curves for PdO–RuO $_2$ /C in H $_2$ -saturated (a) 0.1 m HClO $_4$  and (b) 0.1 m KOH solution at varying rotation speeds. Scan rate was 10 mV s $^{-1}$  and the metal loading was 20  $\mu$ g cm $^{-2}$ . Inset: K–L plot at 0.2 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE).

The K–L plot (inset of Figure 5a,b) at  $0.2\,V$  in acidic and basic medium gave a straight line and passed through the origin. This indicates that HOR kinetics in both the solutions were controlled by  $H_2$  mass diffusion.

In 0.1 M solution of HClO $_4$  and KOH, the  $BC_0$  value of PdO–RuO $_2$ /C catalyst was found to be 0.074 and 0.0693 mA (cm $^2$  rpm) $^{-1/2}$ . The HOR polarization plot of Pd-RuNSs/C and comm. Pt/C in base media is given in Figure S12a,b, respectively, and comparison of K–L plots of these catalyst is shown in Figure S12c. Figure 6a,b displays the comparison of HOR polarization curves of PdO–RuO $_2$ /C with Pd-RuNSs/C, PdO/C, comm. Pd/C and comm. Pt/C catalysts in 0.1 M HClO $_4$  and 0.1 M KOH

solution, respectively. The limiting MA for HOR at 200 and 20 mV of these catalysts in both acid and base media are presented in Figure 6c,d, respectively.

The MA value at 20 mV in  $0.1 \,\mathrm{M}$  HClO<sub>4</sub> for PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C is found to be 328 A g<sup>-1</sup>, which is 10 times higher than that of comm. Pd/C. In  $0.1 \,\mathrm{M}$  KOH, the MA values of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C, comm. Pt/C, PdO/C, and comm. Pd/C are 221, 84, 1.5, and  $9.1 \,\mathrm{Ag^{-1}}$ , respectively (see Figure 6c and Table S2). The observed MA value of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C is about 24 times higher than that of comm. Pd/C and 2.6 times that of comm. Pt/C. The limiting MA of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst (at 200 mV) is 760 and 590 A g<sup>-1</sup> in acid and base, whereas the limiting MA values for

Figure 6. Mass-specific HER/HOR curves of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C and other catalysts in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated (a) 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> and (b) 0.1 M KOH solution (1600 rpm; scan rate 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>). MA at (c) 200 mV and (d) 20 mV for all catalysts.  $|J_k|$  vs. potential plot of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C and other catalysts in (e) 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> and (f) 0.1 M KOH. For all catalysts metal loading was 3.55 μg cm<sup>-2</sup>.

comm. Pt/C are 355 and 240 A g<sup>-1</sup> in acid and base, respectively (Figure 6d). The HOR branch follows Nernstian diffusion potential, and we corrected the HOR diffusion overpotential by using the following Equation (3):<sup>[28]</sup>

$$\eta_{\text{diffusion}} = -\frac{RT}{F} \ln \frac{1-j}{j_1} \tag{3}$$

We calculated  $j_k$  from the HOR curve by using first-order K–L correction [Eq. (4)]:<sup>[28]</sup>

$$j_{k} = j(j_{\text{lim}}/(j_{\text{lim}} - j)) \tag{4}$$

where  $j_{kr}$   $j_r$  and  $j_{lim}$  are the kinetic current density, measured current density at 1600 rpm, and diffusion-limiting current density, respectively.

Under pure diffusion conditions,  $j_d$  (maximum HOR current) is related to HER/HOR diffusion overpotential according to Equation (5):

$$j_{\rm d} = j \left[ 1 - \exp\left(\frac{-2F\eta}{RT}\right) \right] \tag{5}$$

The exchange current density was obtained by fitting the experimental HER/HOR curve with the Butler-Volmer equation [Eq. (6)]: $^{[28]}$ 

$$j_{k} = i_{0} \left[ e^{\left(\frac{\alpha r}{RT}\right)\eta} - e^{-\left(\frac{(\alpha - 1)F}{RT}\right)\eta} \right]$$
 (6)

where  $\alpha$  is the transfer coefficient,  $i_0$  is the exchange current density,  $j_k$  is the kinetic current density, T is the temperature, and F and R are the Faraday constant and gas constant, respectively.

Figure 6e,f presents the Butler-Volmer fitting of HOR polarization curves at 1600 rpm of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C and other catalysts in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> and 0.1 M KOH solutions, respectively. The surface-specific exchange current density comparison plot of different catalysts is shown in Figure S12d. The mass-specific exchange current (i<sub>0,m</sub>) of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> is found to be 829  $\rm mA\,mg^{-1}$ , which is 20 times higher than comm. Pd/C (42 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>). In 0.1 M KOH solution, the  $i_{0,m}$  values of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C, PdO/C, comm. Pt/C<sup>[29a,b]</sup> and comm. Pd/C catalysts are 523, 1.55, 154, and 9.1 mA mg $^{-1}$ <sub>metal</sub>, respectively. The i<sub>0,m</sub> value of this catalyst is 338, 55, and 3.4 times higher than that of PdO/C, comm. Pd/C and comm. Pt/C, respectively. The surface-specific exchange current  $(i_{0.5})$  values are calculated by normalizing the  $i_{0,m}$  value by ESCA values. The  $i_{0,s}$  of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/ C is  $0.55~\text{mA}\,\text{cm}^{-2}_{\text{PdRu}}$ , which is about 2 and 20 times higher than that of comm. Pt/C and comm. Pd/C, respectively. This result shows that this PdO-RuO2/C catalyst is also one of the best HOR catalyst compared with recently reported other catalysts. [2,7b,11b,18a,b,21b,27]

We have performed cyclic voltammetry (CV) and HOR measurements of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C and PdO/C catalysts at different pH buffer solutions to understand the pH effect on HOR. The HOR polarization curves of the catalyst and its normalized curves at various pH solutions are represented in Figure S12e,f

and Figure 7a,b. The half-wave potential 0.5  $i_{lim}$  of these two compounds was compared at different pH values in Figure 7c. A small change of 0.5  $i_{lim}$  with pH of the solutions was observed for PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C, but a negligible change below pH 7 and a large increase of 0.5  $i_{lim}$  with pH for PdO/C catalyst was observed. The half-wave potential of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C was shifted only 3 mV towards the positive side whereas a positive shift of 50 mV was noticed for PdO/C when pH was increased from 7 to 13. The comparison of overpotential at 1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (HOR) in different solution pH is given in Figure 7d. This shows almost negligible increase of overpotential for PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst, but in the case of PdO/C catalyst with a small change below pH 7 and above pH 7, the HOR overpotential increased significantly with pH. The HOR behaviors of these two catalysts with different pH values are significantly different.

The geometric exchange current density of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C in acid (10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and base (8.2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) suggest that the HOR activity of this catalyst is almost the same in both acid and base media, whereas the HOR activity of PdO/C in base media is 15 times lower than its acid activity. The HOR performance of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C is 20 times higher than that of PdO in acid media, but the HOR of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C in 0.1 M KOH solution is approximately 300 times higher than PdO/C. Based on these results, one can say that HOR activity of PdO/C is more sensitive for solution pH than that of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C. The HOR is a two-step process: Tafel (hydrogen dissociative adsorption to form Hads) step followed by the formation of proton from Hads (second step). In base, the second step is that either Hads and adsorbed  $OH^-$  ions ( $OH_{ads}$ ) or  $H_{ads}$  and  $OH^-$  ions from solution react to form water.<sup>[28]</sup> Durst et al.<sup>[8b]</sup> indicated that HBE in alkaline media is a prime descriptor for HOR/HER in alkaline media. Many groups<sup>[30a,b]</sup> also suggested that HBE is the sole descriptor for

**Figure 7.** Normalized HOR current curves for (a) PdO–RuO $_2$ /C and (b) PdO/C in different buffer solutions. (c) Potential at 0.5  $i_{\rm lim}$  for two catalysts at different pH. (d) Potential for HOR current of 1 mA cm $^{-2}$  at different pH values. For two catalysts metal loading was 20  $\mu$ g cm $^{-2}$ .

HOR in alkaline media. Markovic and co-workers[9,31] showed that the presence of Ni(OH)2 on Pt enhanced the HOR/HER activity in basic media and proposed a bifunctional mechanism. The role of OH ions is still not obvious, and two mechanisms are available to explain sluggish HOR/HER kinetics in base media: (i) HBE theory and (ii) OHads theory.

We have studied the under potential desorption of hydrogen (UPD-H) of two catalysts such as PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C in different pH buffer solutions to understand the alkaline HOR/ HER mechanism. The *E*peak for UPD-H is related to the HBE of the catalyst with Equation (7):

$$\Delta G (M-H) = -FE_{peak} \tag{7}$$

where *F* and Δ*G* are the Faraday constant and hydrogen binding energy, respectively. The CVs of PdO RuO2/C and PdO/ C catalyst in different (pH 0–13) buffer solutions are provided in Figures 8a and S13. As shown in Figure 8b, the *E*peak (UPD-H) of the catalysts are moved towards positive potentials with increasing the pH of solutions. The *E*peak (UPD-H) positions of PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C increased linearly with a slope of 11.16 and 15.1 mV pH <sup>1</sup> , respectively. The HBE on surfaces of PdO RuO2/C catalyst are also changed with pH of the solution. The HBE can thus explain the stronger pH effect on the HOR activity of PdO/C in comparison to PdO RuO2/C. The *i*<sup>0</sup> value of PdO RuO2/C is 22 times and 300 times higher than that of PdO/ C in acid and base, respectively. Although *E*peak of PdO/RuO2/C and PdO/C are close in acid media, the HOR activity of the two catalyst is significantly different. The HBE change alone cannot explain the huge difference of their activity in both the medium. We have performed a CO stripping experiment for these two catalysts to find the exact role of OH ions in the alkaline HOR mechanism.

The CO stripping voltammetric curve represents the OH absorption potentials on the surface of the catalyst. The CO stripping curves of PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C composites in 0.1 m HClO4 and 0.1 m KOH solution are presented in Figures 8c and S16a, respectively. For PdO RuO2/C catalyst, the main peak is observed at +0.65 V (RHE) with an onset potential of +0.46 V due to CO oxidation at lattice sites of PdO RuO2/C, whereas the CO striping peak and onset potential for the PdO/C catalyst are +0.93 and +0.69 V, respectively. This suggests that the PdO RuO2/C catalyst has a higher oxophilic property (i. e., stronger OH adsorption) than the PdO/C composite. The CO oxidation curves of PdO RuO2/C and Pd-RuNSs/C catalysts in different pH solutions are provided in Figures S14 and S15, respectively. The CO oxidation onset potential at different pH values is presented in Figure 8d.

This shows that the onset potentials for CO stripping of these two catalysts are decreased when the pH of the solutions is increased and the onset potential for the PdO RuO2/C composite is lower at all pH values. This indicates that the PdO RuO2/C catalyst has higher oxophilic property than the PdO/C composite. The presence of small amount of RuO2 in the PdO RuO2/C makes this catalyst more oxophilic. The RuO2 in PdO RuO2/C created more interfaces, which act as OH adsorption sites. The high OH adsorption/oxophilicity of the catalyst plays a significant role in HOR activity. Thus, HBE and OH adsorption may be two equal descriptors for HER/HOR in the base. The very high HOR performance of PdO RuO2/C as

**Figure 8.** (a) CVs of PdO RuO2/C in N2-saturated different buffer solutions (scan rate: 30 mVs 1 ). (b) *E*peak (UPD-H) vs. pH plot of PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C. (c) CO voltammograms of PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C in 0.1 m HClO4 solution. (d) *E*CO onset vs. pH for PdO RuO2/C and PdO/C.

compared to PdO/C composite in alkaline media may be attributed to the enhanced OH adsorption of PdO RuO2/C in comparison to PdO/C composite. Thus, OHads is an important intermediate for alkaline HOR. We propose a bifunctional mechanism for HOR in alkaline media. The interface between RuO2 and PdO, (PdO/RuO2) acts as OH adsorption site and H adsorption site. The dissociation of H2 takes place at the interface between PdO/RuO2 to form a (PdO/RuO2)-Hads intermediate. The neighbouring active site offers the OH adsorption and consecutively formed (PdO/RuO2)-OHads intermediate. In the final step, both these intermediates (Hads and OHads) react, and the H2O molecule is formed. The presence of RuO2 in the PdO RuO2/C composite not only influences HOR performance; its HER performance in the base media is also increased dramatically. The PdO RuO2/C composite is approximately 19 times more HER active than PdO/C catalyst in 1 m KOH solution. RuO2 promotes dissociation of H2O at the interface to form Hads and OHads, and then the neighboring Hads combine to form a H2 molecule.

Similar behavior, that is, the role of OH ions in alkaline HOR related to the fine-tuning of adsorption energy of OH (OHads) for metallic systems, was reported by several groups. Koper[12b] and Dekel and co-workers[13] reported that OHads improves the reactivity of Hads leading to enhanced overall HOR performance in alkaline media. The optimal interactions between the catalyst surface and both the Hads and OHads species are the main criteria for a good HOR catalyst for alkaline media. Figure 9a shows HOR curves of PdO RuO2/C catalyst with varying Ru loading, and its corresponding *i*<sup>0</sup> value (in base) vs. wt% of Ru is given in Figure 9c in the base. This showed that HOR activity of PdO RuO2/C increases linearly with increasing Ru-loading and reaches its maximum value when approximately 10 wt% Ru is present in PdO RuO2/C catalyst.

The change of *E*peak (UPD-H) and onset of CO stripping (OH adsorption) with different wt% Ru in PdO RuO2/C and their corresponding CV plots are presented in Figures 9b, S17, and S18, respectively. This suggests that both HBE decreases and OH adsorption increases with increasing amount of RuO2 in the catalyst, and after 10 wt% of Ru, the change of both decreased. The volcanic plot of exchange current vs. onset (CO) or *E*peak (UPD-H) (Figure 9d) suggests that Hads and OHads are the two descriptors for HOR in base media. The stronger affinity of RuO2 for OH helps to dissociate water into OH and H, which then adsorbs immediately on the interface between PdO/RuO2 or nearby defect sites of PdO. In the next step, two Hads combine to form H2 molecule in HER process. For HOR, dissociation of H2 occurs on the interface PdO/RuO2 or defects of PdO to form Hads, whereas OH adsorbed on the hetero-interface or RuO2 surface forms OHads. Finally Hads from interface combines with neighbouring OHads from interface/RuO2 surface to form an H2O molecule. Thus, the presence of hetero-interface of PdO/RuO2 helped to significantly enhance its HER and HOR activity through a bifunctional mechanism.

The HOR/HER performances of PdO RuO2/C hybrid in different alkaline metal electrolyte solutions were studied. In Figure 10a,b, the HER and HOR curves of the PdO RuO2/C catalyst

**Figure 9.** (a) HOR polarization curves in 0.1 m KOH. (b) *E*peak (UPD-H) or CO onset potential vs. wt% of Ru in PdO RuO2/C. (c) *i*<sup>0</sup> vs. wt% of Ru in PdO RuO2/C in 0.1 m KOH. (d) *i*<sup>0</sup> vs. *E*peak (UPD-H) or CO onset potential of PdO RuO2/C.

Figure 10. (a, b) HER/HOR LSV curves of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C in 0.1 m KOH, 0.1 m NaOH and 0.1 m LiOH solutions. (c) CVs of this catalyst in these three electrolyte solutions (inset: UPDH region in these solutions). (d) HOR curves of this catalyst in 0.1 M LiOH with varying concentration of Li<sup>+</sup> ions. (e) HER of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C in 0.1 M LiOH solution with varying amount of Li<sup>+</sup> ions. (f) CVs of this catalyst in 0.1 M LiOH with varying Li<sup>+</sup> ion concentrations (inset: UPDH region).

in 0.1 M solutions of KOH, NaOH, and LiOH are presented. This shows that both the HER and HOR activities of the PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst are changed on changing electrolyte solution. The pH and concentration of OH<sup>-</sup> ions in different electrolytes (KOH, NaOH, and LiOH) solution are same. Thus one guestion that arises is why the HER/HOR activity of PdO-RuO2/C catalyst is different in the environment of alkali metal ions (M<sup>+</sup>) with same concentration. Koper and co-workers[32] reported that when pH of the solution is increased, the potential for HER/HOR becomes more negative relative to pzfc. High water reorganization energy is needed at high pH to transport the OH<sup>-</sup> through the double-layer region and the energy barrier for the Volmer step is thus increased. Markovic and co-workers<sup>[9]</sup> observed that although the HER performance of the stepped Pt, Ru, and Ir surfaces increases on addition of alkaline metal ions (M<sup>+</sup>), the HOR activity remains same. It is not possible to explain the selective increment of HER by M+-induced change of the pzfc because pzfc simultaneously influences both HER/HOR performances. Jia et al.[33] proposed the 2B theory based on the HSAB theory and bifunctional mechanism to explain the influence of M<sup>+</sup> ions on the HER/HOR performance of Pt. The CVs of PdO-RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalysts in different electrolyte solutions are shown in Figure 10c. The UPD-H peak is shifted to negative potential in 0.1 M LiOH solution as compared to 0.1 M KOH, NaOH solutions. This suggests that observed potential change is due to non-covalent interaction between adsorbed hydrogen and hydrated metal ions. Similar negative shifting of UPD-H

peaks or H desorption peak for Pt surface in different electrolyte solutions was reported by several groups.<sup>[34a,b]</sup> Based on above observation, we propose that  $OH_{ads}$  anchors to  $M^{+}$  to form  $OH_{ads}-M^+-(H_2O)_x$  adduct, [35] but  $M^+$  is not anchored by  $RuO_2$  or PdO surface. The Volmer step  $(H_2O + e^- \rightleftharpoons H_{ads} + OH^-)$  can be written in two steps [Eqs. (8) and (9)]:

$$H_2O + [M^+ - (H_2O)_x] \rightleftharpoons H_{ads} + [OH_{ads} - M^+ - (H_2O)_x]$$
 (8)

$$[OH_{ads}-M^{+}-(H_{2}O)_{x}] + e^{-} \rightleftharpoons [OH^{-}-M^{+}-(H_{2}O)_{x}]$$
 (9)

The M<sup>+</sup> and the OH<sup>-</sup> are Lewis hard acid and Lewis hard base, respectively. Based on the HSAB theory [36] we can say that M<sup>+</sup> binds strongly with OH<sup>-</sup> but weakly with OH<sub>ads</sub>, a soft base. The hardness of M<sup>+</sup> increases in the order K<sup>+</sup> < Na<sup>+</sup> < Li<sup>+</sup>, the energy interaction between OH<sub>ads</sub> and [M<sup>+</sup>–(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>x</sub>] decreases in [OH<sub>ads</sub>-M<sup>+</sup>-(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>x</sub>], whereas the interaction between OH<sup>-</sup> and  $(H_2O)_xAM^+$  increases in  $[OH^--M^+-(H_2O)_x]$ . Therefore, the difference in interaction energy of [OH<sup>-</sup>-M<sup>+</sup>-(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>v</sub>] and [OH<sub>ads</sub>-M<sup>+</sup>  $-(H_2O)_x$ ] is getting smaller in the order of Li<sup>+</sup> > Na<sup>+</sup> > K<sup>+</sup> .The driving force for OH<sub>ads</sub> desorption decreases in the order Li<sup>+</sup>> Na<sup>+</sup> > K<sup>+</sup>. Therefore, the HER activity of PdO–RuO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst is decreased in the order of LiOH > NaOH > KOH (Figure 10b). The enhanced HER performance in base media due to the presence of  $[OH_{ads}-M^+-(H_2O)_x]$  suggested that we can be enhanced HER activity with increasing amount of [OH<sub>ads</sub>-M<sup>+</sup>-(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>v</sub>] by increasing amount of either OH<sub>ads</sub>/M<sup>+</sup> or both. This explains

why HER activity of metal-free PdO RuO2/C is much higher than that of oxide-free Pd-RuNSs/C catalyst. We have also studied HER and HOR of PdO RuO2/C catalyst in the varying concentration of Li<sup>+</sup> ions. Figure 10e shows that the HER performance of this catalyst increases with increasing concentration of Li<sup>+</sup> ions. For the solution with higher Li<sup>+</sup> ion concentration, the more of [OHads M<sup>+</sup> (H2O)*x*] species are present, the more (PdO RuO2) OHads bond are changed, leading to increase of HER activity. The identity of electrolyte or concentration of Li<sup>+</sup> ions influences the HER performance of the PdO RuO2/C. We also observed that the HOR performance of this catalyst is also strongly affected by the presence of Li<sup>+</sup> ions.

The HOR and HER performance of PdO RuO2/C in LiOH electrolyte solution in presence of varying Li<sup>+</sup> ion concentrations are shown in Figure 10d,e, respectively. This shows that the HOR of PdO RuO2/C catalyst is decreased with increasing Li<sup>+</sup> concentrations. The decreased limiting current density on increasing amount of Li<sup>+</sup> ions suggests that inherent HOR activity of the catalyst is influenced by Li<sup>+</sup> ions. As shown in Figure 10a, HOR performance of the catalyst in different electrolyte solutions decreases in the sequence of LiOH*>*NaOH*>*KOH. These two behaviors can be explained by the HSAB theory and bifunctional mechanism. The HER and HOR mechanism involving [OHads M<sup>+</sup> (H2O)*x*] in alkaline media are shown in Figure 11. The presence of [OHads M<sup>+</sup> (H2O)*x*] suggests the role of OHads can be influenced by M<sup>+</sup> ions leading to change in the (PdO RuO2) OHads binding energy. According to the HSAB theory, M<sup>+</sup> helps desorption of OHads to bulk. and weakens the (PdO RuO2) OHads bond. The weakening of (PdO RuO2) OHads bond is highest in K<sup>+</sup> ions, whereas the weakening effect is small for Li<sup>+</sup> ions. This explains the poor HOR performance of PdO RuO2/C in KOH in comparison to LiOH. It was further supported by the CO-stripping experiments.

The CO oxidation curves of PdO RuO2/C catalyst in different electrolyte solutions and the LiOH solutions with varying concentrations of Li<sup>+</sup> ions are presented in Figure S16b,c, respectively. This showed that the onset potential for CO stripping shifted to negative potential on changing from 0.1 m KOH to 0.1 m LiOH solution, suggesting that OHads desorption was influenced by M<sup>+</sup> ions. Jia and co-workers[35] reported that HOR activity of Pt/C decreased on increasing Li<sup>+</sup> ions concentration whereas HOR activity of bimetallic Pt-oxophilic metal (Ir, Ni, Ru) remained same. The decrease of HOR in Pt/C with increasing Li<sup>+</sup> ions was because Hads and OHads compete for same active site, unlike bimetallic Pt-catalysts where Hads and OHads preferentially adsorb on Pt and oxophilic metal sites respectively resulting same HOR activity. As shown in Figure 10f, the intensity of UPD-H peak of PdO RuO2/C in LiOH solution was not decreased with increasing Li<sup>+</sup> ion concentration, suggesting that Li<sup>+</sup> ions are not adsorbed into the catalytically active sites. We found a significant decrease of HOR activity of PdO RuO2/C on increasing concentration of Li<sup>+</sup> ions. Although RuO2 is more oxophilic, the hetero-interface PdO RuO2 is the active catalytic site for both Hads and OHads; thus, there is a competition between Hads and OHads for same active sites (PdO RuO2 interface or defects) in PdO RuO2/C. The positive shifting of CO onset potential with Li<sup>+</sup> ions concentration suggests that Li<sup>+</sup> ions destabilize the OHads. The weakening of (PdO RuO2) OHads bond, induced by M<sup>+</sup> ions, delays OH adsorption and hinders removal of Hads, leads to decrease of HOR performance of PdO RuO2/C.

#### **Factors responsible for high catalytic performance**

The superior electrocatalytic performance of PdO RuO2/C hybrid for HER/HOR can be attributed to the following factors:

(1) The PdO RuO2/C hybrid is a multi-component catalyst, and the role of each component is different. The interface can integrate different components to form a highly active catalyst. The PdO RuO2 interface offers active sites for the formation of Hads intermediate and also provides sites for the adsorption of OH , whereas N@C serves as electrical conductive support. The very high activity of PdO RuO2/C can be attributed to the synergistic interactions among different components. To understand the interactions we have performed EIS measurements. Figure S19b,c shows the Nyquist plot of the EIS analysis for PdO RuO2/C, physical mixture of PdO/C and RuO2/C and N@C. The charge-transfer resistance (*R*ct) values of PdO RuO2/C, physical mixture (PdO/C and RuO2) and N@C were 6.42, 1410 and 5460 Ω, respectively at 20 mV overpotential. The PdO RuO2/C has much lower *R*ct compared to the physical mixture (PdO/C and RuO2/C) and N@C support alone. The much lower *R*ct value of the PdO RuO2/C in comparison to PdO/C, physical mixture of PdO/C and RuO2/C, carbon support alone suggested a strong synergistic interaction between the different

**Figure 11.** Schematic diagram for HER and HOR mechanism in alkaline medium at PdO RuO2/C electrode.

components (PdO, RuO2, C support) in the PdO RuO2/C. The synergistic interaction was further confirmed by HER curves of PdO RuO2/C, physical mixture (PdO/C and RuO2/C) and N@C (Figure S19a). The much higher HER performance of PdO RuO2/ C in comparison to PdO/C, physical mixture of PdO/C and RuO2/ C, N@C proved that strong synergistic interaction between different components plays a crucial role in enhancing the electrochemical activity of the catalyst.

- (2) Several research groups showed that the interface engineering of catalysts can enhance the catalytic performances of the catalyst for catalyzing reactions. It can modify properties of the catalyst due to electronic effect, synergistic effect, and it also may offer catalytically active sites. For example, Yao and co-workers[37] showed that heterostructured NiFe layered double hydroxide (LDH)-graphene hybrid showed excellent HER and OER performance in alkaline media due to strong electronic coupling between NiFe LDH and defective graphene (DG). The surface defects can act as catalytically active site for adsorption and enhance its activity for electrochemical reactions. For example, Xi and co-workers[24] reported that FeS2/CoS2 interfaces with abundance of defects showed superior electrochemical HER and OER in alkaline media. The experimental evidence shows that PdO RuO2/C hybrid has plenty of interfaces between PdO and RuO2 and the uneven surface of catalysts has several defects. The abundance of interfaces and surface defects of the PdO RuO2/C hybrid could be another reason for its enhanced activity for HER/HOR at all pH solutions.
- (3) Another reason could be the highly porous morphology of the catalyst (PdO RuO2/C). The porous morphology allows easy accesses of reactants to the catalytic active site for electrochemical reactions and resulted products also come out easily. The SEM images showed highly porous structure of the PdO RuO2/C catalyst.
- (4) The presence of nitrogen in this PdO RuO2/C catalyst improves charge transfer kinetics due to the interaction between proton and N atoms, leading to enhanced electrocatalytic activity of the catalyst.
- (5) It is expected that the efficiency of a catalyst is generally proportional to the ECSA of the catalyst. Plenty of interfaces are present between the PdO and RuO2 nanostructures, and the active catalytic sites in the catalyst are highly exposed due to high porous morphology. This PdO RuO2/C catalyst has a very high ECSA value (119 m2g <sup>1</sup> in acid and 102 m2g <sup>1</sup> in base). The high ECSA of PdO RuO2/C catalyst originating from highly porous morphology and abundant interfaces contributes significantly to its very high electrocatalytic activity.

## **Conclusions**

We have discussed a facile preparation method for PdO RuO2 and carbon composite. This PdO RuO2/C hybrid displayed superior catalytic activity towards electrochemical hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in acid as well as base medium. The HER performance of this composite is much better than that of commercial Pt/C in alkaline media and is comparable in acid medium. The HOR of this composite was investigated by using rotating disk electrode (RDE) method in different pH solutions. PdO RuO2/C has higher OH adsorption than PdO/C and very high HER/HOR activity of PdO RuO2/C composite in alkaline media was explained through the bi-functional mechanism. We have established that hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and OH adsorption are two equally important descriptors for HER/HOR in alkaline media. We have demonstrated the catalytic role of hydroxy-metal ion-water species for alkaline HER/HOR activity of the catalyst. The effect of monovalent alkali metal ions (M<sup>+</sup>) on HER/HOR activities of PdO RuO2/C in alkaline media was studied. The HER activity of PdO RuO2/C catalyst in alkaline media increased in the order of K<sup>+</sup> *<*Na<sup>+</sup> *<*Li<sup>+</sup> (or with increasing Li<sup>+</sup> concentration) as per hard and soft acid and base (HSAB) theory due to the formation of OHads M<sup>+</sup> (H2O)*<sup>x</sup>* species. However, the HOR activity of this catalyst was decreased with increasing amount of Li<sup>+</sup> ions through a OHadsassisted bifunctional mechanism. We hope that this preparation method or a similar method for two or more different metal oxide composites and this understanding of HOR mechanism in alkaline media will help to overcome the challenges and will be applied to prepare next-generation Pt-free electrocatalysts with high activity for future fuel cells or other renewable technologies.

## **Experimental Section**

Details on materials, synthesis procedures, characterization (all TEM analysis and elemental mapping of PdO RuO2/C, Pd-RuNSs/C and PdO/C), XPS study, electrochemical measurements, impedance spectroscopy study, and HER and HOR comparison tables are given in the Supporting Information.

## *Acknowledgements*

*We are thankful to NISER and Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), India, for financial support. We also thankful to Center for Interdiciplinary Sciences (CIS), NISER for the instrumental facilities.*

## *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** Defects **·** electrocatalysis **·** hydrogen evolution **·** interface **·** nanostructures

- [1] W. Reitz, *Mater. Manuf. [Processes](https://doi.org/10.1080/10426910701416336)* **2007**, *22*, 789–789.
- [2] Y. Cong, B. Yi, Y. Song, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *44*, [288–303](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.12.008).
- [3] M. Winter, R. J. Brodd, *Chem. Rev.* **2004**, *104*, [4245–4270](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr020730k).
- [4] P. C. Vesborg, B. Seger, I. Chorkendorff, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.5b00306) Lett.* **2015**, *6*, 951– [957.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.5b00306)
- [5] a) S. Guo, S. Zhang, L. Wu, S. Sun, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206152) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, [11770–11773;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206152) *Angew. Chem.* **2012**, *124*, [11940–11943;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201206152) b) T. Bhowmik, M. K. Kundu, S. Barman, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *1*, [1200–1209.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.7b00305)
- [6] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, [eaad4998](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aad4998).

- [7] a) T. Bhowmik, M. K. Kundu, S. Barman, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b10436)* **2016**, *8*, [28678–28688](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b10436); b) M. K. Kundu, R. Mishra, T. Bhowmik, S. Barman, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA07028H) Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, [23531–23541](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA07028H); c) K. Wang, B. Li, W. Wei, J. Wang, Q. Shen, P. Qu, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 23740–23747; d) Q. Wang, C.-Q. Xu, W. Liu, S.-F. Hung, H. Bin Yang, J. Gao, W. Cai, H. M. Chen, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4246; e) M. Akbayrak, A. M. Önal, *J. [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2020.06.117) [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2020.06.117) Sci.* **2020**, *580*, 11–20.
- [8] a) J. Zheng, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **[2016](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.1501602)**, *2*, [e1501602](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.1501602); b) J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, [2255–2260](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE00440J).
- [9] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.1574) Chem.* **2013**, *5*, [300–306](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.1574).
- [10] a) W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, M. Gao, J. Zheng, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 5848; b) S. Lu, Z. Zhuang, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b00765) Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [5156–5163.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b00765)
- [11] a) W. Sheng, M. Myint, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ee00045a) Sci.* **2013**, *6*, [1509–1512](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ee00045a); b) T. Bhowmik, M. K. Kundu, S. Barman, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02485)* **2016**, *6*, [1929–1941](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02485).
- [12] a) G. Wang, J. Parrondo, C. He, Y. Li, V. Ramani, *J. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0251713jes) Soc.* **2017**, *164*, [F1307–F1315;](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0251713jes) b) M. T. Koper, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, [255–256](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.1600).
- [13] E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00689)* **2018**, *8*, [6665–6690](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00689).
- [14] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, [177–181](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE02564D).
- [15] X. Chen, I. T. McCrum, K. A. Schwarz, M. J. Janik, M. T. M. Koper, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201709455) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [15025–15029;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201709455) *Angew. Chem.* **2017**, *129*, [15221–](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201709455) [15225.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201709455)
- [16] L. Zhang, Q. Chang, H. Chen, M. Shao, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *29*, [198–219.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.02.044)
- [17] S. N. Pronkin, A. Bonnefont, P. S. Ruvinskiy, E. R. Savinova, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2010.01.060) Acta* **2010**, *55*, [3312–3323](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2010.01.060).
- [18] a) H. Wang, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [6807–6810;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b02434) b) Y. Cong, I. T. McCrum, X. Gao, Y. Lv, S. Miao, Z. Shao, B. Yi, H. Yu, M. J. Janik, Y. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, [3161–3169;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA11019K) c) X. Qin, L. Zhang, G.-L. Xu, S. Zhu, Q. Wang, M. Gu, X. Zhang, C. Sun, P. B. Balbuena, K. Amine, M. Shao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, [9614–9621](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01744).
- [19] J. Sunarso, A. A. J. Torriero, P. C. Howlett, D. R. MacFarlane, M. Forsyth, *Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc.* **2012**, *1491*, mrsf12-1491-c1406–1406.
- [20] a) J.-H. Lee, D. Yim, J. H. Park, C. H. Lee, J.-M. Ju, S. U. Lee, J.-H. Kim, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA02840A) Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [13490–13500](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA02840A); b) Y. Hu, X. Luo, G. Wu, T. Chao, Z. Li, Y. Qu, H. Li, Y. Wu, B. Jiang, X. Hong, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b16492)* **2019**, *11*, [42298–42304](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b16492).
- [21] a) Q. Xu, H. Jiang, H. Zhang, Y. Hu, C. Li, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *242*, [60–66;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.09.064) b) J. Jiang, S. Tao, Q. He, J. Wang, Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA02528C) Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [10168–10174.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA02528C)

- [22] Y.-G. Wang, Y. Yoon, V.-A. Glezakou, J. Li, R. Rousseau, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja402063v) Soc.* **2013**, *135*, [10673–10683.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja402063v)
- [23] P. Wang, X. Zhang, J. Zhang, S. Wan, S. Guo, G. Lu, J. Yao, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14580.
- [24] Y. Li, J. Yin, L. An, M. Lu, K. Sun, Y.-Q. Zhao, D. Gao, F. Cheng, P. Xi, *[Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201801070)* **2018**, *14*, [1801070.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201801070)
- [25] Y. Zhu, Q. Lin, Y. Zhong, H. A. Tahini, Z. Shao, H. Wang, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE02485F) Sci.* **2020**, *13*, [3361–3392.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE02485F)
- [26] J. Sunarso, A. M. Glushenkov, A. A. J. Torriero, P. C. Howlett, Y. Chen, D. R. MacFarlane, M. Forsyth, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2012**, *160*, H74–H79.
- [27] M. K. Kundu, T. Bhowmik, R. Mishra, S. Barman, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201800856)* **2018**, *11*, [2388–2401.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201800856)
- [28] J. Zheng, Y. Yan, B. Xu, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, [F1470–F1481.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0501514jes)
- [29] a) B. M. Stühmeier, S. Selve, M. U. M. Patel, T. N. Geppert, H. A. Gasteiger, H. A. El-Sayed, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 5534–5539; b) J. N. Schwämmlein, B. M. Stühmeier, K. Wagenbauer, H. Dietz, V. Tileli, H. A. Gasteiger, H. A. El-Sayed, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, H229–H239.
- [30] a) J. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, [4449–4455;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00247) b) M. E. Scofield, Y. Zhou, S. Yue, L. Wang, D. Su, X. Tong, M. B. Vukmirovic, R. R. Adzic, S. S. Wong, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, [3895–3908.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00350)
- [31] N. Danilovic, R. Subbaraman, D. Strmcnik, K.-C. Chang, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201204842) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, [12495–12498;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201204842) Angew. Chem. **2012**, 124, 12663–12666.
- [32] R. Gisbert Gregori, G. García, M. Koper, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2010.04.009) Acta* **2010**, *55*, 7961– [7968.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2010.04.009)
- [33] Q. Jia, E. Liu, L. Jiao, J. Li, S. Mukerjee, *Curr. Opin. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2018.11.017)* **2018**, *12*, [209–217](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2018.11.017).
- [34] a) D. J. Weber, M. Janssen, M. Oezaslan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2019**, *166*, F66-F73; b) X. Chen, I. T. McCrum, K. A. Schwarz, M. J. Janik, M. T. M. Koper, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [15025–15029](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201709455); *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201709455) Chem.* **2017**, *129*, [15221–15225.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201709455)
- [35] E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [3232–3239.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b13228)
- [36] R. G. Pearson, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1963**, *85*, [3533–3539.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja00905a001)
- [37] Y. Jia, L. Zhang, G. Gao, H. Chen, B. Wang, J. Zhou, M. T. Soo, M. Hong, X. Yan, G. Qian, J. Zou, A. Du, X. Yao, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, [1700017](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201700017).

Manuscript received: January 26, 2021 Revised manuscript received: March 19, 2021 Accepted manuscript online: March 24, 2021 Version of record online: April 8, 2021