---
source: Sun 等 - 2023 - Directional electronic tuning of Ni nanoparticles by interfacial oxygen bridging of support for cata.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 54.108s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:26:33.798469Z
---

# Directional electronic tuning of Ni nanoparticles by interfacial oxygen bridging of support for catalyzing alkaline hydrogen oxidation

Hongming Sun<sup>a</sup> D, Cha Li<sup>a</sup> D, Le Yang<sup>a</sup>, Yixuan Han<sup>a</sup>, Xueying Yu<sup>a</sup>, Cheng-Peng Li<sup>a</sup> D, Zhihong Zhang<sup>b</sup>, Zhenhua Yan<sup>c</sup> D, Fangyi Cheng<sup>c</sup>, and Miao Du<sup>b,1</sup>

Edited by Alexis Bell, University of California, Berkeley, CA; received May 13, 2023; accepted September 12, 2023

Metallic nickel (Ni) is a promising candidate to substitute Pt-based catalysts for hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR), but huge challenges still exist in precise modulation of the electronic structure to boost the electrocatalytic performances. Herein, we present the use of single-layer Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> MXene to deliberately tailor the electronic structure of Ni nanoparticles via interfacial oxygen bridges, which affords Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> electrocatalyst with exceptional performances for HOR in an alkaline medium. Remarkably, it shows a high kinetic current of 16.39 mA cm $_{
m disk}^{-2}$  at the overpotential of 50 mV for HOR [78 and  $2.\overline{7}$  times higher than that of metallic Ni and Pt/C (20%), respectively], also with good durability and CO antipoisoning ability (1,000 ppm) that are not available for conventional Pt/C (20%) catalyst. The ultrahigh conductivity of single-layer Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> provides fast transmission of electrons for Ni nanoparticles, of which the uniform and small sizes endow them with high-density active sites. Further, the terminated -O/-OH functional groups on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> directionally capture electrons from Ni nanoparticles via interfacial Ni-O bridges, leading to obvious electronic polarization. This could enhance the Nids-O2p interaction and weaken Nids-H1s interaction of Ni sites in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>enabling a suitable H-/OH-binding energy and thus enhancing the HOR activity.

metallic nickel | Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> Mxene | electronic metal-support interaction | hydrogen oxidation reaction

Renewable hydrogen technologies offer prospective approaches to replace the diminishing carbon economy via high-efficiency electrochemical processes, such as the production of electricity in H<sub>2</sub> fuel cells, during which the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) is involved (1–3). The alkaline hydroxide exchange membrane-based fuel cells have drawn great attention owing to the substantial developments of efficient nonnoble electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction in alkaline media (4-7). Although great efforts have been devoted to developing high-performance HOR electrocatalysts in alkaline conditions, the scarce and expensive Pt-based materials are still the benchmarked electrocatalysts for their optimal adsorption free energies of  $H^*$  ( $\Delta G_{H^*}$ ) (8, 9). Therefore, developing efficient nonnoble metal electrocatalysts with Pt-like HOR performances in alkaline electrolytes is highly desired but a great challenge.

According to the Sabatier's principle, the qualified HOR electrocatalysts should have moderate binding energy of adsorbed hydrogen (H\*), which is considered as a key descriptor to evaluate the HOR (10, 11). Furthermore, the potential window of alkaline HOR is beyond the potential of zero (free) charge, resulting in unfavorable OH adsorption on the catalyst surface (11). This causes the water formation process (Volmer step, H\* +  $OH^- \leftrightarrow H_2O + e^-$ ) to become the rate-determining step of alkaline HOR (10, 12). Accordingly, the exception of an optimized H\* adsorption and a favorable OH adsorption should be realized for the ideal alkaline HOR electrocatalysts (13). At present, Ni (Nickel) is the most concerned nonprecious metal HOR catalyst in alkaline media for its decent activity and abundant sources (14). However, the performance of metallic Ni is still far behind that of Pt-based catalysts, due to its strong hydrogen adsorption energy and lack of effective hydroxide adsorption sites (6, 15).

In this context, the precise controlling and tailoring of the electronic structures of metal catalysts have long been pursued to achieve enhanced electrocatalytic activities (16–18). A valid route to well optimize the surface electronic state of metallic catalyst is to induce the electronic metal-support interaction (EMSI) between the active species and substrate, which can greatly influence the *d*-band manifold of catalytic sites via electronic equilibration (19-22). The carbon-based materials with high electrical conductivity and chemical stability are widely used substrates (23). However, their inert surface can only provide weak EMSI with the loaded active species and is ineffective to regulate the electronic structures of catalysts (23). Metal oxides, particularly TiO<sub>2</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>, are also nice supports with strong EMSI between the metal catalysts (24, 25), but the low conductivity of

## **Significance**

The developments of efficient and stable nonnoble metal catalysts for the sluggish alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) are crucial for commercialization of hydroxide exchange membrane-based fuel cells. Nickel (Ni) is a promising alternative to the precious Pt-based catalysts for alkaline HOR. However, the activity of Ni is still far behind those of Pt-based catalysts, for its strong hydrogen adsorption energy and lack of effective hydroxide adsorption sites. A Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> electrocatalyst was developed and showed ultrahigh activity for alkaline HOR, with exceptional stability and tolerance to CO poisoning, outperforming Pt/C (20%). This work provides a promising strategy to precisely modulate the electronic structures of metal catalysts by directional electronic tuning via interfacial oxygen bridging of support to boost the electrocatalytic performance.

Author contributions: H.S. and M.D. designed research; C.L., L.Y., Y.H., and X.Y. performed research; H.S., C.L., C.-P.L., Z.Z., and Z.Y. analyzed data; and H.S., F.C., and M.D. wrote the paper.

The authors declare no competing interest.

This article is a PNAS Direct Submission.

Copyright © 2023 the Author(s). Published by PNAS. This article is distributed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License 4.0 (CC BY-NC-ND).

<sup>1</sup>To whom correspondence may be addressed. Email: dumiao@zzuli.edu.cn.

This article contains supporting information online at https://www.pnas.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10.1073/pnas. 2308035120/-/DCSupplemental.

Published October 26, 2023

these materials is a limiting factor for electrocatalysis. More importantly, their uncontrollable surface atoms (M or O) are not conducive to a directional regulation of electronic structures of the metal catalysts, due to the uncertain interfacial bridges between loaded metals and oxides (17, 26, 27). Alternatively, MXenes (e.g., Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> MXene) materials with unique layered structures and good electrical conductivity (e.g. Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>: ~9,880 S cm<sup>-1</sup>) are used as nice supports for electrocatalysts (28). More critically, MXenes with definite surface functionality (e.g.,  $Ti_3C_2T_x$ ,  $T_x = -O$ , -OH, and -Fgroups) can deliberately induce the EMSI with metal nanoparticles via forming M-O-Ti bonds (M representing loaded metal nanoparticles) (29). The strong chemical bonding between the d orbital of M and p orbital of O can readily lead to the electron transfer from M to O (18). The location of less valence electrons on the metal sites is beneficial to lower the H adsorption energy, which is also helpful to promote the valence-electron delocalization of OH-adsorption active sites and, thus, enhances the OH adsorption (30). Therefore, constructing MXene-supported Ni hybrids is highly desirable to realize the precise manipulation of electronic structures for Ni nanocatalysts, thus optimizing their adsorption behaviors during HOR (31).

Here, we design and prepare a new-style Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> supported Ni nanoparticles hybrid with significant EMSI, which results in the ultrahigh electrocatalytic performance of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> for HOR under alkaline conditions. Remarkably, Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> shows a high geometric exchange current density of 2.42 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and high geometric kinetic current density of 16.39 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 50 mV, which are 1.5 and 2.7 times higher than those of commercial Pt/C, respectively. Moreover, the outstanding tolerance against CO surface poisoning in hydrogen fuel is achieved on Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the terminated O of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> support captures electrons from Ni via strong Ni–O interactions in the interface between metallic Ni and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. This effective electronic perturbation leads to an optimized H-/OH-binding energy on Ni nanoparticles. Also, ultrahigh conductivity of the Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> support can enable fast electron conduction for Ni nanoparticles, which have uniform and small sizes to provide abundant catalytic active sites. As a result, Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> shows the excellent electrocatalytic performance for HOR in alkaline media.

#### Results

The Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid was synthesized by the in situ growth of Ni nanoparticles on the delaminated  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  MXenes (Fig. 1*A*). Briefly, Ti<sub>3</sub>AlC<sub>2</sub> was etched in 48% HCl/LiF water solution to give Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which was then delaminated via liquid ultrasonication to form singly layer Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (Fig. 1 B and C and SI Appendix, Figs. S1 and S2). The Ni nanoparticles were in situ loaded on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> using oleylamine-assisted method via reducing Ni(acac)<sub>2</sub>

Fig. 1. Synthesis and characterizations of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (A) Synthetic route of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (B) TEM image of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (C) AFM image of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (D) XRD pattern of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (E) TEM image of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (Inset: size distribution histogram of Ni nanoparticles). (F) SAED pattern of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (G) TEM-EDX elemental mapping of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (H and I) High-resolution TEM images of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> with line scan of HRTEM image indicated by the blue lines for Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni.

by triethylamine borane in oleylamine and oleic acid (SI Appendix, Fig. S3). The formed Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> precursor was reduced and crystallized at higher temperature under a H2 atmosphere to obtain the Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid. Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (Fig. 1*D*) shows the characteristic diffraction peaks at 6.1 and 60.9° for the (002) and (110) facets of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (32, 33). The other three diffraction peaks at 44.5, 51.8, and 76.4° are ascribed to the (111), (200), and (220) facets of cubic Ni (JCPDS No. 4-850, space group Pm3m), respectively, indicating the formation of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid.

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image shows that abundant Ni nanoparticles with narrow size distribution (~7.5 nm) are evenly dispersed on  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  (Fig. 1E). The diffraction rings in the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern can be indexed to the (111) and (200) facets of Ni, while the bright spots in SAED are assigned to the hexagonal structure of basal planes of the MXene flakes, having high crystallinity without clear defect (Fig. 1F). The TEM mapping (Fig. 1G) shows the homogenous distributions of Ti and O elements in Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> nanosheets, also verifying that the uniform Ni nanoparticles are homogeneously dispersed on  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  to support the Ni catalytic active sites. The high-resolution TEM image reveals an interplanar spacing of 0.203 and 0.252 nm, corresponding to the (111) plane of Ni and (0110) plane of  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  (Fig. 1 H and I). For a comparison, Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrids of different Ni:Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> mass ratios (SI Appendix, Fig. S4 and Table S1) were prepared by the similar method. Furthermore, the graphene-supported Ni nanoparticles (denoted as Ni/G) and pure Ni nanoparticles (denoted as Ni-Ref) were also synthesized to serve as the reference samples (SI Appendix, Figs. S5 and S6). The TEM image of Ni/G demonstrates that the Ni nanoparticles with uniform size (~8.0 nm) are evenly anchored on the surface of graphene, which is similar to Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>.

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) were used to study the chemical environments and electron structures of Ni nanoparticles after loading on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. The XPS survey spectrum shows that Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> consists of the elements including C, O, Ti, Ni, and slight F (SI Appendix, Fig. S7). In the XPS spectra of Ni 2p, the peak intensity of Ni–O bond in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is obviously higher than that in Ni-Ref (Fig. 2A), revealing the presence of Ni-O interactions between Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni (i.e., Ni–O–Ti bonding) (17, 34). To avoid the distraction of natural oxidation, in situ XPS measurements of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni-Ref under H<sub>2</sub>/Ar conditions were carried out (SI Appendix, Fig. S8). The peak intensity of Ni-O bond for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is gradually decreasing but did not disappear after calcination at 200, 300, or 400 °C for 2 h, while the peak corresponding to Ni-O for Ni-Ref has completely disappeared after calcination at 400 °C for 2 h. This verifies that there are indeed the Ni–O bonds between Ni and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. The positively shifted Ni 2p peaks of Ni (Fig. 2A) and the negatively shifted O 1s peaks of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (Fig. 2B) confirm the prominent redistribution of electronic structure in the interfacial area of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid. That is, the electron donation from Ni nanoparticles to the –O species on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> results in electron-deficient feature on the Ni nanoparticles of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (34). On the contrary, the peak intensity and binding energy of Ni-O bond in Ni/G are the same as those in Ni–Ref, which indicates the weak EMSI between Ni and inert graphene. The XPS spectra of Ti 2p could be deconvoluted into four peaks, including O-Ti-O, C-Ti-O, C-Ti-OH, and C-Ti-C, which demonstrates the O- and OH-terminated surface of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (Fig. 2C) (35). The uniform binding energy of the XPS spectra of Ti 2p for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> affirms that Ni nanoparticle is bonding with the –O species on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> rather than Ti. The XPS results indicate the existence of strong EMSI

between Ni nanoparticles and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> support, which will greatly decrease the valence electron density on Ni. Moreover, this prominent EMSI can be confirmed by a low-frequency shift of Ti-O bond stretching in the Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) spectrum of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> compared with that of pure  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  (Fig. 2D and SI Appendix, Fig. S9) (17).

X-ray absorption near-edge structure spectrum of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> at the Ni K-edge (Fig. 2E) is in line with that of the freshly synthesized Ni-Ref, showing the retentive metallic nature of Ni nanoparticles in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. The shifts to higher binding energy of near-edge adsorption energy of Ni in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, compared with that of pristine Ni, reveal that the Ni nanoparticles on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> substrate are partly positively charged (Fig. 2 E, Inset), which is consistent with the XPS tests. The extended X-ray absorption fine-structure (EXAFS) spectra of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni-Ref were taken to trace the radial structure function around Ni nanoparticles (Fig. 2F). A prominent Fourier transforms peak of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> at 2.41 Å in the R space plots, corresponding to the Ni–Ni path (Fig. 2F). The Ni K-edge EXAFS fitting illustrates that the first-shell Ni–Ni coordination numbers decreases from  $10.9 \pm 0.3$ for Ni to 4.6  $\pm$  0.5 for Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$  (SI Appendix, Table S2). Herein, the lower coordination number should be ascribed to the smaller crystal size and rich surface steps for Ni nanoparticles loaded on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which is beneficial to increase the active sites and tune the adsorption capability of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (36). No discernible intensity of interfacial Ni-O coordination can be identified, which may be attributed to the very high intensity of Ni–Ni coordination and the characteristics of volume-phase testing techniques of the XAS used in these experiments (37). The EXAFS spectra illustrate that the Ti-C/O and Ti-C-Ti bonds are predominant in the Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid, which is in agreement with those in Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (SI Appendix, Fig. S10). This result clearly confirms that the structure of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> can be well retained after supporting the Ni nanoparticles.

DFT calculations were explored to understand the interfacial electronic interactions between Ni and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, with Ni/G as a comparison. Herein, the structures of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni/G were established based on the determined structures of catalyst in hand (SI Appendix, Fig. S11). The redistribution of charge density occurs near the interface of Ni and  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  (Fig. 2G). The strong chemical bonds between the *d* orbital of Ni and *p* orbital of O in Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> can effectively induce the charge transfer from Ni to Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which however is not valid for Ni/G with a weak EMSI between Ni and graphene because of the low electronegativity of C atoms relative to O atoms (Fig. 2H) (21). This is further verified by bader charge analysis, showing that the Ni atoms close to interfacial region of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> exhibit a more positive charge density of ~0.25 e compared with that (~0.11 e) of the interfacial Ni atoms in Ni/G (Fig. 2 G-I). Significantly, the binding strength of Ni on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is 10.15 eV stronger than that of Ni on graphene (Fig. 2*J*). This enables the uniform dispersion and robust anchor of Ni on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which is conducive to its stability. Thus, the strong EMSI decreases the valence electron density of Ni nanoparticles greatly, which will not only boost the stability but also decrease the thermodynamic energy barriers to enhance the HOR activities (38).

To illustrate the synergistic behaviors of Ni and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> for HOR catalysis, electrochemical measurements were taken in 0.1 M KOH medium purged with  $H_2$ . Compared with Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, the Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> precursor shows a much lower catalytic activity due to the severe oxidation of Ni nanoparticles (SI Appendix, Fig. S12), as verified by the XPS spectrum of Ni 2p for Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$ precursor (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S3). Additionally, among the Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$ hybrids with different compositions (Ni-Ref, Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>-0.7:1,

Fig. 2. Electronic structure of Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$ . XPS spectra of (A) Ni 2p for Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$ , Ni-Ref and Ni/G, (B) O1s for Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$  and Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$  and Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$  and Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$ . (E) Ni K-edge XANES spectra for Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$ . Vi-Ref and NiO-Ref. (F) The Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, Ni-Ref, and NiO-Ref. (G and H) Difference of charge density with isosurface = 0.004 e bohr<sup>-3</sup> (yellow and cyan shadows reveal the electron accumulation and electron depletion, respectively) in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni/G. (/) Positive charge density on Ni sites of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni/G. (/) Binding energies of Ni nanoparticles on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and graphene.

 $Ni/Ti_3C_2T_x-1.3:1$ ,  $Ni/Ti_3C_2T_x-2.3:1$ , and  $Ni/Ti_3C_2T_x-4.1:1$ ), Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>-1.3:1 has the highest electrocatalytic activity with the largest exchange current density  $(j_0)$  and the largest kinetic current density (jk) at the overpotential of 50 mV (SI Appendix, Figs. S13 and S14), owing to the smallest crystal size of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>-1.3:1 in these hybrids.

The HOR catalytic activity of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>-1.3:1 (i.e., Ni/ Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>) was also evaluated by comparing with those of the Ni-Ref, Ni/G, Pt/C (20%), PtRu/C (20%), and  $Ti_3C_2T_x$ . A slow sweep rate of 0.2 mV s<sup>-1</sup> was applied to minimize the capacitance contribution (SI Appendix, Fig. S15). Notably, the steady-state polarization plot of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> achieved from chronoamperometry was measured to eliminate the interferences from current contributed by catalysts oxidation (5). The similar polarization behaviors indicate that the HOR activity of  $Ni/Ti_3C_2T_x$  can be realistically measured without interference (SI Appendix, Fig. S16). The optimal catalyst loading of 0.283 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> on an inert glassy carbon rotating-disk electrode was determined experimentally (SI Appendix, Fig. S17). The polarization curves with iR correction of catalysts indicate that the anodic current density of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is higher than those of Ni/G, Ni-Ref, Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, and commercial Pt/C (20%) and is close to the benchmark HOR catalyst PtRu/C (20%) in the whole potential range, revealing the superior HOR activity of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> in alkaline media. Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> drives a current density of 2.30 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV (Fig. 3*A*), which is larger than that of Pt/C (1.89 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and very close to that of the state-of-the-art PtRu/C (2.53 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). By contrast, Ni/G,  $Ti_3C_2T_x$ , and Ni-Ref show the lower HOR current density of 1.19, 0.44, and 0.21 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Further, the control experiments in Ar-saturated KOH electrolyte exhibit negligible anodic currents for Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$  (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S18). The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy tests on Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$  and control samples were also carried out (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S19). The small charge-transfer resistance ( $R_{cc}$ ) on Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$  further demonstrates its remarkable HOR activity.

The kinetic current densities  $(j_k)$  for HOR were extracted based on the Koutecky–Levich equation via eliminating the effect from  $H_2$  mass transfer (11). The HOR polarization curves of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> were recorded at different rotating speeds from 400 to 2,500 rpm (Fig. 3*B*). By plotting and fitting the reverse of current density  $(j^{-1})$  at the potential of 50 mV vs. the inverse of square

root rotation rate ( $\omega^{-1/2}$ ), a straight line is obtained with the slope of 4.81 cm² mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>, which is almost the same as the theoretical value of 4.87 cm² mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> for the 2-electron HOR process (Fig. 3 *B, Inset*) (39). The kinetic current density ( $j_k$ ) at the overpotential of 50 mV is 16.39 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which represents 7.9-, 78.0-, and 2.7-fold increases compared with those of Ni/G, Ni-Ref, and commercial Pt/C, respectively. Further, the exchange current density ( $j_0$ ) was extracted from a linear fitting of the micropolarization regions from –5 to 5 mV (Fig. 3*C*). The Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid shows a geometric  $j_0$  of 2.42 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is much higher than those of Ni/G (0.83 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ni-Ref (0.08 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and commercial Pt/C (1.50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). In terms of  $j_k$  (at 50 mV) and  $j_0$ , the Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid outperforms most reported HOR electrocatalysts (Fig. 3*D* and SI Appendix, Table S3). To identify the real active sites of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, SCN-anions are introduced to the electrolyte, which can bond with the

**Fig. 3.** Electrocatalytic HOR activities in 0.1 M KOH purged with  $H_2$ . (A) Polarization plots of Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$ ,  $Ti_3C_2T_x$ , Ni-Ref, PtRu/C(20%), Ni/G, and Pt/C(20%). (B) HOR polarization curves of Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$  at different rotation speeds of electrode (Inset: the Koutecky-Levich plot at 50 mV). (C) Micropolarization regions (-5 to 5 mV) of Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$ , Ni-Ref,  $Ti_3C_2T_x$ , commercial Pt/C and PtRu/C. (D) Comparison of  $J_k$  at 50 mV and  $J_0$  for Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$ ,  $Ti_3C_2T_x$ , Ni-Ref, Ni/G, and Pt/C(20%). (E) Polarization curves of Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$  and  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  in 0.1 M KOH with or without 10 mM KSCN solution. (E) Comparison of mass-normalized  $J_k$  at 50 mV and ECSA-normalized  $J_0$  for Ni/ $Ti_3C_2T_x$  with the representative HOR electrocatalysts.

metal sites and reduce the HOR activity (22, 40). Fig. 3E shows the LSV curves of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> in 0.1 M KOH, with and without potassium thiocyanate (KSCN, 10 mM). The addition of SCN<sup>-</sup> anions cannot affect the catalytic activity of  $Ti_3C_2T_r$ , since SCN<sup>-</sup> anions have no negative influence on the Ti–O terminated surface (not coordination) (29). In contrast, the current density of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> decreases significantly in the presence of SCN<sup>-</sup> anions, indicating that the Ni nanoparticles are the actual active sites of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which can be blocked by SCN<sup>-</sup>. With a valid support, the Ni nanoparticles in Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Ni/G composites have the larger electrochemical active surface areas (ECSAs) than that of Ni-Ref catalyst and thus possess more active sites (SI Appendix, Fig. S20). The ECSA of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is close to that of commercial Pt/C (20%) (SI Appendix, Fig. S21). A comparison of the mass-normalized  $j_k$  and ECSA-normalized  $j_0$  (Fig. 3F and SI Appendix, Fig. S22 and Table S3) further confirms the high intrinsic HOR activities of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>.

Long-term stability is critical to a HOR electrocatalyst (3, 38), which was first evaluated by chronoamperometry for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>.

After a continuous polarization at a constant potential of 100 mV for 10 h (Fig. 4A), the Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> catalyst exhibits the undetectable decay in current density (only 0.8%). The continuous CV sweep at the scan rate of  $100~\text{mV}~\text{s}^{-1}$  was also performed to evaluate the HOR durability for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which remains the initial activity after 2,000 cycles (Fig. 4B). Meanwhile, the R<sub>ct</sub> of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> after stability test also remains constant (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S23A), further indicating its high stability. The high stability of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> for HOR is ascribed to the fact that the strong anchoring effect of Ni metal on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> substrate prevents the agglomeration of Ni nanoparticles, as confirmed by the retentive uniformly dispersed nanostructures on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and unchanged ECSA of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (Fig. 4C and SI Appendix, Figs. S23B and S24 *A–F*). After the long-term stability experiment, the XRD pattern of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> matches well with the initial one (Fig. 4D). The SAED of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> also shows a reserved high crystallinity of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> after HOR test (Fig. 4E). The Ni 2p XPS spectrum of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid after the 10-h stability test reveals that the Ni nanoparticles keep the metallic state well (SI Appendix, Fig. S24G),

Fig. 4. Electrocatalytic HOR stability and CO tolerance. (A) Chronopotentionmetric curves of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C,T<sub>xr</sub> Pt/C(20%), PtRu/C(20%) and Ni/G at 50 mV. (B) Polarization curves of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>v</sub> before and after 2,000 cycles. (c) TEM image of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>v</sub> after HOR measurement. (D) XRD pattern of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>v</sub> after HOR measurement. (E) SAED pattern of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> after HOR measurement. (F) HOR polarization curves of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, Pt/C(20%), and PtRu/C(20%) in  $H_2/1$ ,000 ppm CO-saturated 0.1 M KOH. (G) Relative current-time chronoamperometry response of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, Pt/C(20%) and PtRu/C(20%) at 100 mV in H<sub>2</sub>/1,000 ppm CO-saturated 0.1 M KOH. (H) CO-stripping tests on Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Pt/C(20%) at sweep rate of 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The gray curve is the second cycle of test. Sweep rate: 0.2 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Rotation speed:

and the Ti 2p XPS spectrum of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hints no serious oxidation of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S24*H*). The unchanged elemental composition of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> after HOR further illustrates its high stability (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S24*I*). The stability of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is also investigated by in situ electrochemical Raman spectra. The results indicate that the main characteristic vibrational modes at 130, 244, 374, 612, and 727 cm<sup>-1</sup> as for Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> are retained up to 0.6 V (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S25), which proves the structural stability of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> in this potential range for HOR. On the contrary, the Pt/C (20%) and PtRu/C (20%) catalysts show inferior stability mainly because of the agglomeration of active sites during the test (*SI Appendix*, Figs. S26 and S27), while the low stability of Ni/G mainly results from the oxidation of Ni sites (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S28).

In the fuel cells, due to the preferential CO binding, the Pt-based materials for HOR are readily poisoned by CO impurity in hydrogen fuel (1). As a result, the limiting current density of polarization curve for Pt/C (20%) and PtRu/C (20%) tested in the presence of 1000 ppm CO decreases observably, while

Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> still maintains a high limiting current density (Fig. 4*F*). Moreover, the Pt/C (20%) and PtRu/C (20%) catalysts are completely inactivated after 3,000 s of operation in the presence of 1,000 ppm CO (Fig. 4*G*). Remarkably, the current density for HOR on Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> decreases by only 9.5% after the continuous operation for 3,000 s, suggesting its excellent CO tolerance for HOR. For the CO-stripping tests, the earlier onset CO oxidation peak (ca. 0.64 V) is observed for Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> compared with that for Pt/C (Fig. 4*H*). This result reveals that the preferable OH adsorption on Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> assists in the oxidation of adsorbed CO, which results in its impressive CO-tolerance performance (41).

To shed more light on understanding the intrinsic activity for HOR in heterogeneous interface of Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$ , DFT calculations were taken for the intermediate free energy on Ni-Ref, Ni/Ti $_3$ C $_2$ T $_x$ , and Ni/G. As HOR involves the adsorbed hydrogen H\*, the free energy of hydrogen adsorption ( $\Delta G_{H^*}$ ) is utilized to characterize the alkaline HOR activity of electrocatalysts (42). A thermoneutral  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  value of 0 eV is desirable due to the balance between the

**Fig. 5.** Theoretical calculations. (*A*) Adsorption configurations of H\* on the active site 1 of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (*B*) Calculated  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  values for Ni and Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (*C*) Adsorption configurations of OH\* on the active site 1 of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (*D*) Calculated OH adsorption energies for Ni and Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>. (*E*) Schematic illustration of accelerated alkaline HOR processes at Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> supported Ni nanoparticles.

reversible adsorption/desorption on active sites (43–45). As confirmed by the SCN $^-$  poison experiment, the metallic Ni species should be the catalytic active sites of Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  (Fig. 3E). Then, the  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  on different active sites of pure Ni, Ni/G, and Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  were calculated. With regard to Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  the optimized  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  (–0.26 eV) is achieved (Fig. 5 A and B and SI Appendix, Fig. S29), which is closer to zero than those of pristine Ni and Ni/G (Fig. 5B and SI Appendix, Figs. S30–S32). This result clearly suggests that the Ni nanoparticles supported on Ti $_3C_2T_x$  have favorable energetics to absorbed H\*, which can be ascribed to the valence-electron missing of metallic Ni sites in Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  that weakens the interaction between Ni ds and H 1s orbitals. The optimized  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  can tremendously facilitate the Tafel step (H $_2$  + 2\*  $\leftrightarrow$  H\* + H\*) for alkaline HOR (46).

Although different viewpoints exist, the formation possess of water (Volmer step,  $H^* + OH^- \leftrightarrow H_2O + e^-$ ) is generally regarded as the rate-determining step for alkaline HOR. Recent research studies indicate that enhanced OH\* binding could accelerate the electro-oxidative removal of H\* and thus promote the Volmer step in HOR process (47). Therefore, the binding energies of OH\* (OHBE) are a powerful indicator to describe the reactivity of water formation. As shown in Fig. 5 C and D and SI Appendix, Figs. S33– S36, OH performs stronger adsorption on Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> compared with Ni-Ref and Ni/G. This result can be further verified by the clear negative shift for OH adsorption peak of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> compared with that of Ni-Ref or Ni/G in their CV curves for OH adsorption and desorption on the catalyst surface (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S37). Notably, the optimal H adsorption site (3f coordinated Ni atoms) of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is adjacent to the optimal OH adsorption site (2f coordinated Ni atoms), which thus can be conveniently combined to finish the HOR smoothly (30, 45). The above results reveal that the sluggish water formation (Volmer step) of HOR on Ni nanoparticles can be greatly facilitated by loading on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which synergistically enhance the alkaline HOR electrocatalytic performances (Fig. 5E) along with facilitated Tafel step as discussed above. In addition, a comparison of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> with other metals and metal oxides in terms of the alkaline HOR activity descriptors suggests that Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> with relatively moderate HBE and OHBE is among the excellent catalysts (SI Appendix, Fig. S38 and Table S4).

Further, the universality for this synthetic strategy of hybrid has been verified for noble metal nanoparticles (Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>) with ESMI to boost the HOR activity. The prepared Ru nanoparticles with a small size of ca. 3.6 nm are evenly dispersed on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S39). The evident electron polarization and redistribution of metallic Ru atoms in Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> indicates the ESMI between Ru nanoparticles and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> support (SI Appendix, Fig. S40). As expected, the Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid exhibits obviously higher HOR activity than Ru/C and pure Ru catalysts in terms of jk at 50 mV and j<sub>0</sub> (SI Appendix, Fig. S41). More importantly, the Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid shows particularly high activity for HOR at potentials up to 0.6 V, which is clearly better than the commercial Ru/C (5%) electrocatalyst with rapidly decreasing HOR activity when higher than 0.1 V (*SI Appendix*, Fig. S41*G*). This indicates the high break-down potential of Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid, which however has rarely been obtained in other Ru-based catalysts because the oxophilic Ru is easily oxidized (6, 7, 27). Thus, Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> also shows higher stability than commercial Ru/C(5%). The mild decrease in activity of Ru/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> is due to the slight oxidation of Ru (SI Appendix, Fig. S42). These results reveal that this work provides a general designing strategy to boost the electrocatalytic performances of metal nanoparticles.

### **Discussion**

In conclusion, we have successfully developed a low-cost Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  electrocatalyst with ultrahigh performance for HOR in alkaline medium. Strikingly, the Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  presents a high  $j_{k,m}$  at an overpotential of 50 mV (57.92 A g  $^{-1}$ ) and  $j_{0,ECSA}$  (0.046 mA  $cm_{Ni}^{-2}$ ), surpassing most known nonnoble HOR electrocatalysts. Moreover, the Ni/Ti $_3C_2T_x$  hybrid shows exceptional HOR stability and tolerance to CO poisoning, outperforming the Pt/C (20%) catalysts. The DFT calculations reveal that the modification of O-terminated  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  matrix can effectively induce the directional electron transfer from Ni nanoparticles to the  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  support. This interfacial-bond-induced charge relocation would result in optimized HBE and OHBE, thereby enhancing the catalytic activity for alkaline HOR. More importantly, this remarkable EMSI effect induced by  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  could also be effectively used for metallic Ru. This work provides a promising strategy to design and synthesize robust electrocatalysts for alkaline hydrogen oxidation.

#### **Materials and Methods**

Additional details regarding the *Materials and Methods* may be found in *SI Appendix*.

**Synthesis of Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>.** Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> was prepared in the following steps according to the literature method (42). First, 80 mg Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> MXene was added in a 100 mL three-necked flask containing 30 mL oleylamine and 0.64 mL 1-octadecene, which was ultrasonicated for 20 min to disperse Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> MXene uniformly in the solvent. After that, 2 mmol Ni(acac)<sub>2</sub> was added into the above solution under vigorous stirring. The solution was heated to 110 °C under vacuum to remove the oxygen and water, which was then sealed and filled with nitrogen and cooled down to 90 °C. A solution of oleylamine (2.0 mL) containing triethylamine borane (0.7 mL) was injected into the above solution, which was kept at 90 °C for 1 h under stirring. After cooling to room temperature, the solution was washed by absolute ethanol. The formed Ni/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>-precursor was dried in a vacuum oven at 70 °C for 12 h and then calcinated at 400 °C under a hydrogen and argon mixture (H<sub>2</sub>/Ar = 1/9) atmosphere for 2 h. The Ni/G hybrid was prepared by a similar method with graphene replacing Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>

**Physical Characterizations.** Powder XRD patterns were recorded on a Rigaku model Ultima IV diffractometer with Cu-K $\alpha$  X-ray (40 kV and 100 mA). The SEM images were performed on a FEI Nova Nano 230 scanning electron microscope. The TEM tests were taken on a Philips Tecnai F20 system at 200 kV. The AFM images were taken with Bruker's proprietary ScanAsyst atomic force microscopy under scan mode (Bruker Dimension Icon). The chemical compositions and valence states were determined by XPS (AXIS ULTRA AI K $\alpha$ 1486.6 eV). The element composition was also evaluated by ICP-AES (PerkinElmer Optima 83000). The X-ray absorption experiments were taken at the XAS station (BL14W1) of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility. The X-ray absorption of Ni foil at the Ni K-edge was tested for energy calibration.

**Data, Materials, and Software Availability.** All study data are included in the article and/or *SI Appendix*.

**ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.** This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52101268) and Interdisciplinary Innovative Research Group Project of Henan Province (232300421005).

Author affiliations: <sup>a</sup>Tianjin Key Laboratory of Structure and Performance for Functional Molecules, College of Chemistry, Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin 300387, China; <sup>b</sup>College of Material and Chemical Engineering, Institute of New Energy Science and Technology, School of Future Hydrogen Energy Technology, Zhengzhou University of Light Industry, Zhengzhou 450001, China; and <sup>c</sup>Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education), College of Chemistry, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China

- 1. Y. Zhou *et al.*, Lattice-confined Ru Clusters with High CO Tolerance and Activity for The Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction. *Nat. Catal.* 3, 454–462 (2020).
- 2. X. Yang *et al.*, Colloidosome Catalysts for the Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction in Alkaline Media. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 144, 11138–11147 (2022).
- 3. H. Du *et al.*, Unlocking Interfacial Electron Transfer of Ruthenium Phosphides by Homologous Core-Shell Design toward Efficient Hydrogen Evolution and Oxidation. *Adv. Mater.* 34, 2204624 (2022).
- 4. Y. Zhang *et al.*, Atomically Isolated Rh Sites within Highly Branched Rh2Sb Nanostructures Enhance Bifunctional Hydrogen Electrocatalysis. *Adv. Mater.* 33, 2105049 (2021).
- 5. L. Su *et al.*, Modification of the Intermediate Binding Energies on Ni/Ni3N Heterostructure for Enhanced Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* 31, 2106156 (2021).
- 6. W. Ni *et al.*, An Efficient Nickel Hydrogen Oxidation Catalyst for Hydroxide Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. *Nat. Mater.* 21, 804–810 (2022).
- 7. W. Moschkowitsch, O. Lori, L. Elbza, Recent Progress and Viability of PGM-free Catalysts for
- Hydrogen Evolution Reaction and Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction. *ACS Catal.* 12, 1082–1089 (2022). 8. T. Wang, X. Gao, L. Jiao, Ni2P/NiMoP Heterostructure as a Bifunctional Electrocatalyst for Energy-
- Saving Hydrogen production. *eScience.* 1, 69–74 (2021). 9. Z. Jiang *et al.*, Lattice Strain and Schottky Junction Dual Regulation Boosts Ultrafine Ruthenium Nanoparticles Anchored on a N-Modified Carbon Catalyst for H2 Production. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 144,
- 19619–19626 (2022). 10. X.-M. Lin *et al.*, In Situ Probe of the Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction Intermediates on PtRu a Bimetallic Catalyst Surface by Core−Shell Nanoparticle Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy. *Nano Lett.*
- 22, 5544–5552 (2022). 11. F. Yang *et al.*, Boosting Hydrogen Oxidation Activity of Ni in Alkaline Media through Oxygen-Vacancy-Rich CeO2/Ni Heterostructures. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 58, 14179–14183 (2019).
- 12. M. Ma *et al.*, Single-Atom Molybdenum Engineered Platinum Nanocatalyst for Boosted Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation. *Adv. Energy Mater.* 12, 2103336 (2022).
- 13. E. Liu *et al.*, Unifying the Hydrogen Evolution and Oxidation Reactions Kinetics in Base by Identifying the Catalytic Roles of Hydroxyl-Water-Cation Adducts. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 141, 3232–3239 (2019).
- 14. S. Qin *et al.*, Ternary Nickel–Tungsten–Copper Alloy Rivals Platinum for Catalyzing Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation. *Nat. Common.* 12, 2686 (2021).
- 15. J. Wang *et al.*, Ultrafine Nickel Nanoparticles Encapsulated in N-doped Carbon Promoting Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction in Alkaline Media. *ACS Catal.* 11, 7422–7428 (2021).
- 16. W. Zhao *et al.*, Pt−Ru Dimer Electrocatalyst with Electron Redistribution for Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. *ACS Catal.* 12, 5540–5548 (2022).
- 17. L. Deng *et al.*, Electronic Modulation Caused by Interfacial Ni-O-M (M = Ru, Ir, Pd) Bonding for Accelerating Hydrogen Evolution Kinetics. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 60, 22276–22282 (2021).
- 18. X. Zhao *et al.*, Controlling the Valence-Electron Arrangement of Nickel Active Centers for Efficient
- Hydrogen Oxidation Electrocatalysis. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 61, e202206588. (2022). 19. H. Chen *et al.*, Photoinduced Strong Metal-Support Interaction for Enhanced Catalysis. *J. Am. Chem.*
- *Soc.* 143, 8521–8526 (2021). 20. Y. Liu *et al.*, Unraveling the Function of Metal-Amorphous Support Interactions in Single-Atom
- Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Evolution. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 61, e202114160. (2022). 21. J. Yang, W. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, Electronic Metal-Support Interaction of Single-Atom Catalysts and Applications in Electrocatalysis. *Adv. Mater.* 32, 2003300 (2020).
- 22. W. Yu *et al.*, The Synergistic Effect of Pyrrolic-N and Pyridinic-N with Pt under Strong Metal-Support Interaction to Achieve High-Performance Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution. *Adv. Energy Mater.* 12, 2200110 (2022).
- 23. P. Su *et al.*, Exceptional Electrochemical HER Performance with Enhanced Electron Transfer between Ru Nanoparticles and Single Atoms Dispersed on Carbon Substrate. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 60, 16044–16050 (2021).

- 24. J. Li *et al.*, Highly Active and Stable Metal Single-Atom Catalysts Achieved by Strong Electronic Metal-support Interactions. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 141, 14515–15419 (2019).
- 25. S. Liu *et al.*, Ultrastable Au Nanoparticles on Titania through an Encapsulation Strategy under Oxidative Atmosphere. *Nat. Common.* 10, 5790 (2019).
- 26. M. Li *et al.*, Revealing the Regulation Mechanism of Ir–MoO2 Interfacial Chemical Bonding for Improving Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction. *ACS Catal.* 11, 14932–14940 (2021).
- 27. X. Zheng *et al.*, Understanding the effect of interfacial interaction on metal/metal oxide electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution and hydrogen oxidation reactions on the basis of firstprinciples calculations. *Catal. Sci. Technol.* 10, 4743–4751 (2020).
- 28. D. A. Kuznetsov *et al.*, Single Site Cobalt Substitution in 2D Molybdenum Carbide (MXene) Enhances Catalytic Activity in the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 141, 17809–17816 (2019).
- 29. J. Peng, X. Chen, W.-J. Ong, X. Zhao, N. Li, Surface and Heterointerface Engineering of 2D MXenes and their Nanocomposites: Insights into Electro- and Photocatalysis. *Chem* 5, 18–50 (2019).
- 30. X. Wang *et al.*, Atomic-Precision Pt6 Nanoclusters for Enhanced Hydrogen Electro-Oxidation. *Nat. Common.* 13, 1596 (2022).
- 31. L. Dai *et al.*, MXene-Supported, Atomic-Layered Iridium Catalysts Created by Nanoparticle Re-Dispersion for Efficient Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution. *Small* 18, 2105226 (2022).
- 32. L. Ding *et al.*, MXene Molecular Sieving Membranes for Highly Efficient Gas Separation. *Nat. Common.* 9, 155 (2018).
- 33. H. Wu *et al.*, MXene Derived Metal−Organic Frameworks. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 141, 20037–20042 (2019).
- 34. H. Sun *et al.*, Bixbyite-Type Ln2O3 as Promoters of Metallic Ni for Alkaline Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Evolution. *Nat. Common.* 13, 3857 (2022).
- 35. D. N. Nguyen *et al.*, Core−shell Structured MXene@carbon Nanodots as Bifunctional Catalysts for Solar Assisted Water Splitting. *ACS Nano* 14, 17615–17625 (2020).
- 36. Y. Duan *et al.*, Bimetallic Nickel-Molybdenum/Tungsten Nanoalloys for High-Efficiency Hydrogen Oxidation Catalysis in Alkaline Electrolyte. *Nat. Common.* 11, 4789 (2020).
- 37. J. Zhu *et al.*, Ultrahigh Stable Methanol Oxidation Enabled by a High Hydroxyl Concentration on Pt Clusters/MXene Interfaces. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 144, 15529–15538 (2022).
- 38. C. Zhan *et al.*, Subnanometer High-Entropy Alloy Nanowires Enable Remarkable Hydrogen Oxidation Catalysis. *Nat. Common.* 12, 6261 (2021).
- 39. L. Han *et al.*, Design of Ru-Ni Diatomic Sites for Efficient Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation. *Sci. Adv.* 8, eabm3779 (2022).
- 40. H. Sun *et al.*, Superhydrophilic Amorphous Co–B–P Nanosheet Electrocatalysts with Pt-like Activity
- and Durability for the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* 6, 22062–22069 (2018). 41. K. Lu *et al.*, LixNiO/Ni Heterostructure with Strong Basic Lattice Oxygen Enables Electrocatalytic
- Hydrogen Evolution with Pt-like Activity. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 142, 12613–12619 (2020). 42. W. Ni *et al.*, Ni3N as an Active Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction Catalyst in Alkaline Medium. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 58, 7445–7449 (2019).
- 43. L. Wang *et al.*, Electronic Modulation of Metal-Organic Frameworks by Interfacial Bridging for Efficient pH-Universal Hydrogen Evolution. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* 33, 2210322 (2022).
- 44. C. Cai *et al.*, Optimizing Hydrogen Binding on Ru Sites with RuCo Alloy Nanosheets for Efficient Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 61, e202113664. (2022).
- 45. J. Wang *et al.*, Manipulating the Water Dissociation Electrocatalytic Sites of Bimetallic Ni-Based Alloy for Highly-Efficient Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 61, e202202518.
- 46. Y. Yang *et al.*, Enhanced Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Oxidation on Ni/NiO/C Derived from a Nickel-Based Metal-Organic Framework. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 58, 10644–10649 (2019).
- 47. L. Su *et al.*, The Role of Discrepant Reactive Intermediates on Ru-Ru2P Heterostructure for pH-Universal Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 62, e202215585. (2023).