---
source: Tian 等 - 2025 - Constructing a Localized OH Buffer Motif to Improve the Alkaline Hydroxide Reaction over Ru Clusters.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 43.914s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:28:40.452779Z
---

# **Constructing a Localized OH Buffer Motif to Improve the Alkaline Hydroxide Reaction over Ru Clusters**

*Lin Tian, Ruitao Zhu, Limin Liu, Xingen Lin, Yaner Ruan, Dayin He, Fangyao Zhou, Huang Zhou, Xusheng Zheng,\* Tongwei Wu,\* and Yuen Wu\**

**Developing Ru-based catalysts with high activity and stability for the alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) to replace precious Pt is essential for the practical application of anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) and Ni-H batteries. However, the hydroxyl group (OH), as one of the reactants of HOR, will be over-adsorbed on the Ru surface, resulting in its oxidative deactivation. Here, a new strategy is presented to overcome these limitations by anchoring a localized OH buffer motif on the Ru surface, thereby promoting the alkaline HOR. Density functional theory calculations, in situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy, and in situ attenuated total reflection-infrared spectroscopy demonstrate that the OH buffer motif on the Ru surface can effectively extract OH species from the Ru surface to expose active Ru sites, while creating a localized high OH concentration environment to facilitate the kinetics of the rate-determining step of the HOR process. This OH buffer mechanism improves the overall performance of alkaline HOR. Remarkably, it results in a record 32.1-fold increase in kinetic mass activity and a 2.2-fold increase in exchange current density compared to the pure Ru surface, significantly improving the performance of AEMFCs and Ni-H batteries.**

# **1. Introduction**

The alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) is integral to hydrogen energy technologies, including anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) and Ni-H batteries.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) The slow

L. Tian, R. Zhu, X. Lin, Y. Ruan, D. He, F. Zhou, H. Zhou, Y. Wu Deep Space Exploration Laboratory/School of Chemistry and Materials Science

University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China

E-mail: [yuenwu@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:yuenwu@ustc.edu.cn)

L. Liu, X. Zheng

National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory University of Science and Technology of China

Hefei 230029, China E-mail: [zxs@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:zxs@ustc.edu.cn)

T. Wu

Institute of Fundamental and Frontier Sciences University of Electronic Science and Technology of China

Chengdu 610054, China E-mail: [twwu77@uestc.edu.cn](mailto:twwu77@uestc.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202502910>

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202502910**

kinetics of HOR under alkaline conditions necessitate the use of noble metal Pt, resulting in a much higher demand for Pt compared to acidic conditions.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) However, the extensive reliance on Pt for alkaline HOR imposes a substantial constraint on the development and expansion of AEMFCs and Ni-H batteries, highlighting the urgent need for alternative non-Pt catalysts.[\[3\]](#page-8-0)

Among non-Pt alternatives, Ru-based catalysts have emerged as promising candidates for alkaline HOR due to their moderate hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and approximately half the cost of Pt.[\[4\]](#page-9-0) However, in alkaline environments, the strong oxophilicity of Ru leads to the formation of a dense hydroxyl adsorption (OHads) layer on its surface, thereby severely blocking Ru active sites (**Figure 1**[\)](#page-1-0).[\[5\]](#page-9-0) This significantly compromises the catalytic activity and stability of Ru-based catalysts, leading to the

increased usage of Ru and diminishing the competitiveness as substitutes for Pt. To alleviate the OH-induced passivation and deactivation of Ru-based catalysts, a common approach is to break the charge symmetry of the Ru surface by increasing localized structural disorder.[\[6\]](#page-9-0) While this strategy shows promise, it may diminish the intrinsic activity of Ru, and excessive modification might restrict the supply of hydroxyl group (OH) required for HOR. Given that the OH serves as a critical reactant in the HOR process, maintaining its equilibrium on the Ru surface is essential for achieving optimal performance. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop more effective strategies that not only address the excessive adsorption of OH on the Ru surface in alkaline HOR environments but also ensure a continuous OH supply.

Herein, we propose a new strategy by anchoring an OH buffer motif on the Ru surface to promote the alkaline HOR process (Figure [1\)](#page-1-0). The OH buffer motif can act as a collector to adsorb OH and provide active OH for subsequent reaction. To demonstrate this novel strategy and elucidate its underlying mechanism, we anchored Fe single atoms as an OH buffer site[\[7\]](#page-9-0) on the Ru surface, serving as a representative case for detailed analysis. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations, in situ Xray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), and in situ attenuated total reflection-infrared spectroscopy (ATR-IR) reveal that Fe single atoms on the Ru surface exist in a high oxidation state, leading

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** The alkaline HOR step, the OH-induced deactivation, and the OH buffer mechanism.

to its electron-deficient nature. This enables the Fe atom to extract OH species from the Ru surface, exposing active Ru sites. Simultaneously, the Fe atom provides a localized high OH concentration environment, thereby enhancing the kinetics of the rate-determining Volmer step in the HOR process. This OH buffer mechanism delivers a record 32.1-fold increase in kinetic mass activity and a 2.2-fold increase in exchange current density compared to the pure Ru surface. Additionally, when assembled into AEMFC and Ni-H battery, the Fe single atom-doped Ru clusters outperform both pure Ru clusters and commercial Pt/C.

# **2. Results**

#### **2.1. Theoretical Investigations**

To forecast the impact of the OH buffer motif on the Ru surface, we first performed DFT calculations. We selected the (001) lattice plane of Ru as the primary catalytic surface, and add O atoms to the Ru (001) surface to form a 4-coordination (denoted as Ru (001)). Besides, we introduced a Fe atom to the Ru (001) surface to investigate its effect on the OH distribution (denoted as Fe-doped-Ru (001)). Our calculations revealed that, compared to

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** A) Optimized structures of Ru (001)/H2O and Fe-doped-Ru (001)/H2O interfaces in the explicit solution, with a potential of 1 V being applied (blue, purple, red and white balls represent Ru, Fe, O and H atoms, respectively); B) Enlarged atomic structure of Fe-doped-Ru (001)/H2O interface corresponding to the gray rectangle in (A); C) Density distribution profiles of H and O atoms along the surface normal direction of Ru; Free energy of H atom combining with OH to form water on the surface of D) Ru (001) and E) Fe-doped-Ru (001); F) Adsorption energy of H and OH on Ru (001) and Fe-44doped-Ru (001).

conditions at zero charge potential (PZC), solution water molecules prefer to move toward Ru (001) when a positive potential of 0.2 V vs RHE is applied, with the distance decreasing from 4.5 to 3.9 Å (**Figure 2**A). For Fe-doped-Ru (001), the coordination number of Fe increases from Fe-O1(H2O)1(OH)3 to Fe-O1(H2O)2(OH)3 when a potential of 0.2 V vs RHE is applied (Figure 2B) as the OH group on the Ru surface migrates to the Fe site. Then, we calculated the densities of O and H along the vertical direction of the metal surface to observe the dynamic change of the Ru (001)/H2O interface (Figure 2C). The results show that the introduction of a Fe single atom mainly affects the distribution of O atoms, resulting in a wider distribution of O- containing species at the interface. Consequently, the originally localized O-containing species become more dispersed, thereby exposing more Ru active sites.

To further elucidate the role of a Fe single atom in alkaline HOR, we compared the free energy of Ru (001) and Fe-doped-Ru (001) surfaces in the HOR process. Our calculations indicate that H2 molecules spontaneously dissociate into two H atoms on both Ru (001) and Fe-doped-Ru (001) surfaces. Then, we calculated the energy required for an H atom to combine with an OH to form water, which is the rate-determining Volmer step in the HOR process.[\[8\]](#page-9-0) The results show that the activation energy for Ru (001) is higher than that for Fe-doped-Ru (001),

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 3.** A) Schematic illustration of OH adsorption on the surface of Ru/N-CNT and Fe1Ru/N-CNT; B) Aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM image and C) EDS mapping images of Fe1Ru/N-CNT; D) Magnified image, E) the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern and F) 3D surface intensity profile image obtained from the red rectangle in (B); G) EELS spectroscopy of single metal clusters on Fe1Ru/N-CNT; H) Fourier transforms of k3-weighted Ru K-edge EXAFS experimental and fitting data for Ru foil, Ru/N-CNT and Fe1Ru/N-CNT.

suggesting that Fe-doped-Ru (001) exhibits higher HOR activity (Figure [2D,E\)](#page-2-0). Furthermore, the enlarged transition state images reveal that the distance between reactive H and OH on Ru (001) and Fe-doped-Ru (001) is 2.98 and 2.49 Å, respectively. A shorter distance between the reactive H and OH facilitates their combination into water, thereby promoting the Volmer step. We also calculated the binding energies of H and OH on both Ru (001) and Fe-doped-Ru (001) surfaces (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The results show that the Fe site in Fe-doped-Ru (001) has a higher binding energy with H and OH than the Ru site in Ru (001). This shortens the distance between the reactive H and OH, thereby accelerating the formation of H2O (Figure [2F\)](#page-2-0). These findings clearly demonstrate that the introduction single Fe atom can effectively adsorb oxygen-containing species, making them more dispersed on the Ru (001) surface. More Ru active sites are thus exposed, while Fe single atoms can enhance the adsorption energy of OH and H to accelerate the Volmer step. The electron-deficient Fe can effectively improve the alkaline HOR through buffering the OH adsorption on the Ru surface.

## **2.2. Schematic Diagram and Structural Characterizations**

We further performed experiments to demonstrate the OH buffer mechanism (**Figure 3**A). To maintain high exposure of the active sites, N-doped carbon nanotube (N-CNT) was adopted as the support to anchor Ru clusters (Figure S2, Supporting Information).

www.advancedsciencenews.com

ADVANCED ENERGY MATERIALS

www.advenergymat.de

Then, Ru clusters on N-CNT (denoted as Ru/N-CNT) were prepared using an ethylene glycol reduction method. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images manifest that the Ru/N-CNT consists of ≈1.8 nm Ru clusters distributed on carbon nanotube (Figure S3A-C, Supporting Information). Energy dispersive Xray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping images show that Ru clusters are uniformly distributed across the N-CNT surface (Figure S3D, Supporting Information). A similar method was used to prepare Ru clusters anchored with Fe single atoms (denoted as Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT). Aberration-corrected high-angle annular darkfield scanning transmission electron microscopy (aberrationcorrected HAADF-STEM) images demonstrate that metal clusters with a diameter of ≈1.8 nm are uniformly distributed on the support (Figure 3B; Figure S4, Supporting Information). EDS mapping images show that the isolated Fe atoms are distributed on Ru clusters (Figure 3C). Due to the small size of the Ru clusters, X-ray diffraction (XRD) of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT did not detect any obvious peaks attributed to Ru (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The enlarged image of the red rectangle in Figure 3B and the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern reveal that the Ru cluster has lattice spacings of 0.234 and 0.214 nm corresponding to the Ru (100) and (002) planes, respectively (Figure 3D,E). Furthermore, the magnified image and the corresponding 3D surface intensity profile show that the Fe atom is atomically loaded onto the Ru cluster surface (Figure 3F). High-resolution EELS spectroscopy of single Ru clusters also detects the presence of the Fe signal (Figure 3G). The Ru and Fe loadings in Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT are 14 and 0.9 wt.%, respectively, as determined by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES, Table S1, Supporting Information).

We used X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra to analyze the elemental distribution and valence state of Ru/N-CNT and Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT. The XPS spectrum shows the presence of Ru, C, N, O, and Fe on Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT (Figure S6A, Supporting Information). The high-resolution N 1s XPS spectrum can be divided into pyridinic N (398.82 eV), pyrrole N (399.94 eV), and graphitic N (401.28 eV), which facilitate the stabilization of metal clusters (Figure S6B, Supporting Information). The highresolution C 1s+Ru 3d XPS and Ru 3p XPS spectra of Ru/N-CNT and Fe<sub>1</sub> Ru/N-CNT show the coordination environment of C and Ru (Figure S6C,D, Supporting Information). The Ru 3d and 3p peak positions of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT are shifted by 0.2 eV toward higher energies compared to Ru/N-CNT, suggesting that the introduction of the Fe atom alters the electronic state of Ru. Calculating the percentages of Ru4+ and Ru0 in the Ru 3p XPS spectrum yields a valence state of +0.8 for Ru. The high-resolution Fe 2p XPS pattern of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT indicates that the valence state of Fe is +3 (Figure S7, Supporting Information). X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra were also obtained to investigate the atomic structure of Ru and Fe. The XANES of Ru K-edge shows that the absorption edge of Ru/N-CNT and Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT lies between that of Ru foil and RuO2, indicating that the metal Ru is partially oxidized (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The EX-AFS spectra of Ru/N-CNT and Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT show two dominant peaks at 1.97 and 2.67 Å, which can be attributed to Ru-O and Ru-Ru bonds, respectively (Figure 3H). According to the fitting results, the coordination numbers of Ru-O and Ru-Ru are

3.5 and 4.7, respectively (Table S2, Supporting Information). The Fe L-edge XANES spectrum of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT is similar to that of  $Fe_2O_3$ , suggesting that the valence state of Fe is close to +3 (Figure S9A, Supporting Information). The Fe K-edge EXAFS spectrum and fitting results also display Fe—O coordination at 2.00 Å with a coordination number of 5.6 (Figure S9B, Supporting Information). Additionally, Fe-Ru coordination at 2.6 Å was observed, suggesting that the Fe single atom is positioned within the oxide layer adjacent to the Ru surface. The detailed fitting results are shown in Table S3 (Supporting Information). These results suggest that the metal clusters of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT are composed of surface-oxidized Ru with Fe single atoms located on the oxide layer.

#### 2.3. Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Oxidation Performance

The alkaline HOR performance of the prepared Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT, Ru/N-CNT and commercial Pt/C was evaluated in 0.1 м КОН solution at a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> using the standard threeelectrode system. We first investigated the effect of different Fe additions on the HOR reactivity of Ru (Figure \$10, Supporting Information). As shown in the polarization curves, a small amount of Fe addition (Fe-1) was insufficient to increase the HOR activity of Ru compared with Ru/N-CNT. In addition, excessive Fe addition (Fe-3) reduced the intrinsic HOR activity of Ru. Therefore, we advocate the use of an appropriate amount of Fe addition (Fe-2) as Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT for comparison with commercial Pt/C. The anodic current of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT increased faster than that of Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C with increasing potential (Figure 4A). Furthermore, the catalytic activity of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT remained stable up to 0.25 V vs RHE, whereas the current density of Ru/N-CNT began to decrease significantly at 0.1 V vs RHE. The current density of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT at different rotating speeds shows a linear relationship between j<sup>-1</sup> and  $\omega^{-1/2}$  (Koutecky– Levich plot), and the obtained slope (4.78 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>) is consistent with the theoretical value of the two-electron HOR process (4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>) (Figure 4B).<sup>[9]</sup> We also investigated the alkaline HOR performance of Co<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT and Ni<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Co<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT and Ni<sub>1</sub> Ru/N-CNT exhibit HOR performance similar to Ru/N-CNT, proving that it is only the Fe single atoms that can act as the OH buffer motif to improve the HOR performance of Ru.

Tafel plots of the kinetic current density (jk) were calculated using the Butler-Volmer equation. As shown in Figure 4C, Fe<sub>1</sub> Ru/N-CNT exhibits a higher j<sub>k</sub> than Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C. Additionally, the exchange current density (j<sub>0</sub>) was obtained by fitting the micro-polarization region of the Butler-Volmer equation. The j<sub>0</sub> value of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT, Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C were 3.46, 1.58, and 2.04 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (Figure 4D). The  $j_k$ at 50 mV vs RHE of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT is 74.9 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 16.5 and 13.9 times higher than that for Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C, respectively. Normalizing to the mass of Ru/Pt gives a kinetic mass activity  $(j_{k,m})$  at 50 mV vs RHE of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT is 14.28 A mg<sub>Ru</sub><sup>-1</sup>, which is 32.1 and 134.7 times higher than that of Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C (Figure 4E). The  $j_k$  and  $j_0$  of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT outperform most alkaline HOR catalysts, demonstrating its significant potential for practical applications in AEMFCs and Ni-H batteries (Figure 4F; Tables S4 and S5, Supporting Information).

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. A) HOR polarization curves without iR-correction of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT, Ru/N-CNT commercial Pt/C and commercial PtRu/C in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm and a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup>; B) HOR polarization curves of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT at different rotating speed and a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, inset is the corresponding Koutecky–Levich plot at 50 mV vs RHE; C) Calculated kinetic current densities ( $j_k$ ) and D) Micro-polarization region of the HOR polarization curves in (A); E) Kinetic current normalized to the mass of Ru/Pt at 50 mV vs RHE, and exchange current density ( $j_0$ ) of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT, Ru/N-CNT and commercial Pt/C; F) Comparison of  $j_k$  @50 mV vs RHE and  $j_0$  of different catalysts at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm and a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, without iR-correction; G) Chronoamperometry curves in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH measured at 0.05 V vs RHE; H) CO stripping voltammetry curves; I) Cyclic voltammogram (CV) curves in  $N_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH measured at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>.

Furthermore, the stability of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT was evaluated using the chronoamperometry method. After operating at 50 mV vs RHE, Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT exhibits slower current density decay than Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C, indicating enhanced stability (Figure 4G). We also assessed the resistance to CO in 1% CO/H<sub>2</sub> saturated 0.1 м KOH. Both Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT and Ru/N-CNT demonstrated improved resistance to CO than Pt/C (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The CO stripping peak of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT is 0.64 V, which is higher than that of Ru/N-CNT (0.60 V), but lower than that of Pt/C (0.72 V). This indicates decreased OH binding energy compared to Ru/N-CNT, but increased OH binding energy compared to Pt/C (Figure 4H).<sup>[10]</sup> Finally, the hydrogen binding energy (HBE) was derived from the position of the H<sub>upd</sub> peak in the cyclic voltammogram (CV) recorded in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 м KOH (Figure 4I).<sup>[11]</sup> The mini-

mal  $H_{\rm upd}$  peak of Fe $_1$ Ru/N-CNT manifests its highest HBE compared to Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C. The optimal adsorption toward H and OH in Fe $_1$ Ru/N-CNT is the key to its alkaline HOR activity.

## 2.4. Electronic and Interfacial Structure Investigation

To elucidate the superior performance of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT compared to Ru/N-CNT, in situ characterizations were conducted to investigate their electronic and interfacial structures in a practical reaction environment. Operando X-ray adsorption spectroscopy was performed to reveal the chemical state and coordination structure of Ru in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1  $\,\rm M$  KOH solution. The Ru K-edge XANES spectra of Ru/N-CNT at 0 V show that, compared

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** In situ Ru K-edge XANES spectra of A) Ru/N-CNT and B) Fe1Ru/N-CNT; C) The enlarged image corresponding to the rectangle in (A,B). In situ Ru K-edge EXAFS spectra of the D) Ru/N-CNT and E) Fe1Ru/N-CNT; F) Comparison of the Ru-Ru and Ru-O coordination numbers of Ru/N-CNT and Fe1Ru/N-CNT at different voltages; In situ ATR-IR spectra recorded during the multipotential steps of G) Ru/N-CNT and H) Fe1Ru/N-CNT; I) Comparison of the adsorption of O-containing species at different voltages.

with the pristine sample, the Ru valence state shifts closer to RuO2 due to the adsorption of O-containing species in the alkaline solution (**Figure 5**A). The Ru valence state of Fe1Ru/N-CNT at 0 V remains almost unchanged compared to the pristine sample (Figure 5B). As the potential rises further, the XANES spectra of Ru/N-CNT shift towards RuO2, while those of Fe1Ru/N-CNT shift towards Ru foil (Figure 5C). EXAFS fitting was also performed for Ru/N-CNT and Fe1Ru/N-CNT under different potentials (Figure 5D,E). The Ru-Ru coordination numbers in Ru/N-CNT decrease gradually as the voltage increases, accompanied by an increase in the Ru-O coordination numbers (Figure 5F). Conversely, the Ru-Ru coordination numbers in Fe1Ru/N-CNT increase with voltage, accompanied by a decrease in the Ru-O coordination numbers. The detailed fitting results are displayed in Tables S6 and S7 (Supporting Information). When considered alongside the HOR performance curves, the significant performance degradation of Ru/N-CNT at 0.1 V can be attributed to the Ru oxidation induced by the applied potential in the alkaline solution. In contrast, the retention of metallic Ru in Fe1Ru/N-CNT enables it to remain active and stable at higher potentials. To investigate the different Ru oxidation behaviour in Fe1Ru/N-CNT and Ru/N-CNT under alkaline HOR conditions,

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** A) H2-O2 fuel cell i-V polarization and power density plots of Fe1Ru/N-CNT and Ru/N-CNT; B) Comparison of the specific peak power density and mass activity at 0.65 V; C) GCD curves of Ni-H2 batteries at 0.25C; D) GCD curves of Ni-H2 (Fe1Ru/N-CNT) batteries at 0.15C, 0.25C and 0.4C; E) Cycle stability of Ni-H2 (Fe1Ru/N-CNT) battery at 0.15C.

we further analyzed the adsorption of O-containing species at the catalytic interface.

The adsorption of reaction intermediates onto the catalyst surface was detected using in situ attenuated total reflection-infrared spectroscopy (ATR-IR) at various applied potentials. In a H2 saturated 0.1 m KOH solution, signals were acquired for Ru/N-CNT and Fe1Ru/N-CNT at potentials ranging from 0 to 0.30 V vs RHE. As shown in Figure [5G,H,](#page-6-0) two peaks appear at wavelengths of 1640 and 3400 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with increasing potentials. The 1640 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> peak corresponds to the bending vibration of H─O─H, while the 3400 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> peak is associated with the stretching vibration of O─H.[\[12\]](#page-9-0) Thus, the 1640 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> peak can be attributed to adsorbed water molecules, whereas the 3400 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> peak represents a combination of H2O(above-gap) (3380 cm<sup>−</sup>1) and Na.H2O (3250 cm<sup>−</sup>1), indicating the interficial structure of O-containing species.[\[13\]](#page-9-0) For the Ru/N-CNT sample, the adsorption of O-containing species increased significantly with increasing potential, indicating a stronger adsorption of O-containing species at higher potentials (Figure [5I\)](#page-6-0). Excessive adsorption of O-containing species onto the Ru surface may lead to the oxidation of surface Ru, which is consistent with the in situ XANES and EXAFS spectra results. By contrast, the adsorption of O-containing species on Fe1Ru/N-CNT does not change significantly with applied potential, ruling out Ru deactivation caused by excessive adsorption of these species. Furthermore, the dominant peak at 2120 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> can be classified as the reactive H on the Ru surface (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The adsorption of reactive H on the Ru surface in Fe1Ru/N-CNT is significantly higher than in Ru/N-CNT, because dense O-containing species block the Ru surface in Ru/N-CNT. Based on these in situ characterization results, we conclude that the Ru surface of Ru/N-CNT is predominantly occupied by O-containing species, inhibiting contact with <span id="page-8-0"></span>www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

ADVANCED ENERGY MATERIALS

reactive  $H_2$ . In contrast, O-containing species on the surface of  $Fe_1Ru/N$ -CNT are significantly reduced due to OH concentrated adsorption on Fe single atoms, thereby exposing reactive Ru sites to contact with  $H_2$ . Then,  $H_2$  dissociates into single hydrogen atoms, which combine with the surrounding OH to form water. The continuous occurrence of HOR further diminishes the number of O-containing species on the Ru surface, consequently decreasing the oxidation state of Ru in Fe, Ru/N-CNT.

#### 2.5. Electrochemical Performance of AEMFCs and Ni-H Battery

Due to the excellent performance of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT in alkaline HOR, we further demonstrate its practical application in AEM-FCs and Ni-H batteries. We incorporated Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT and Ru/N-CNT into the membrane electrode assembly (MEA) as anode catalysts and assembled them into an AEMFCs single cell.[14] The current–voltage (i-V) polarization curves and power density distribution plots of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT show a peak power density of 1.03 W cm<sup>-2</sup> in the  $H_2/O_2$  cell, which is significantly higher than that of Ru/N-CNT (0.36 W cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 6A; Figure S14, Supporting Information). At an operating potential of 0.65 V, the Fe₁Ru/N-CNT fuel cell exhibits a current density of 1.1 A cm<sup>2</sup>. After normalizing the Ru loading to 0.1 mg cm<sup>2</sup>, the specific peak power density and mass activity at 0.65 V are 10.3 W mg<sub>Ru</sub> and 11 A mg<sub>Ru</sub>, respectively. The performance of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT in AEMFCs exceeds that of most reported catalysts, demonstrating the superiority of the OH buffer mechanism (Figure 6B; Table S8, Supporting Information). The performance of the Ni-H<sub>2</sub> battery was evaluated using a Swagelok device (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) polarization curves demonstrate the superior activity of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT, surpassing Ru/N-CNT and commercial Pt/C (Figure S16, Supporting Information). The cathode is an industrial-grade Ni(OH), electrode with a high capacity of 400 mAh. Fe<sub>1</sub> Ru/N-CNT, Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C were sprayed onto carbon paper for use as the anode. The galvanostatic charge-discharge (GCD) curves of the Ni-H<sub>2</sub> battery at 0.25C are shown in Figure 6C. The overpotential of Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT is significantly lower than that of Ru/N-CNT and Pt/C, due to its superior HOR/HER performance. The rate performance of the Ni-H<sub>2</sub> (Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT) battery at various capacities is presented in Figure 6D. Furthermore, the Ni-H<sub>2</sub> (Fe<sub>1</sub>Ru/N-CNT) battery exhibits excellent cycling stability, achieving a high average coulombic efficiency of 97.3% and negligible decay in discharge capacity after 100 cycles at 0.15C (Figure 6E).

## 3. Conclusion

In summary, we propose to construct an OH buffer motif on the Ru surface to enhance the alkaline HOR. Combining density functional theory calculations and multiple characterization techniques, we demonstrated that the OH buffer motif can effectively break the dense OH adsorption layer to expose an active catalytic surface, while providing a continuous supply of reactive OH to facilitate the kinetics of the rate-determining Volmer step. This results in an OH buffer mechanism, thereby significantly improving the overall HOR performance. This OH buffer motif activated OH buffer mechanism provides a general solution to mitigate the issue of decreased activity caused by reactants, showing great potential in various reactions.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2021YFA1501003), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22201271, 22221003, 92261105, 52202214), the Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Provincial (2108085UD06 and 2208085UD04), the Anhui Provincial Key Research and Development Project (2023z04020010), the USTC Research Funds of the Double First-Class Initiative (YD2060006005), and the Joint Funds from Hefei National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (KY2060000180). The numerical calculations in this paper have been done on the Computing Center in Xi'an. We acknowledge the Experimental Center of Engineering and Material Science at the University of Science and Technology of China. We thank the photoemission end-stations BL1W1B in Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF), BL14W1 in Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Author Contributions**

L.T., R.Z., and L.L. contributed equally to this work. Y.W. conceived the experiments and designed the study. L.T. planned synthesis, performed most of the reactions, collected and analyzed the data, and wrote the paper. L.L. and X.Z. performed the electron-microscopy characterization. DFT calculations were performed by T.W. Other authors performed some of the experiments and revised the paper.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs), hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR), Ni-H batteries, OH Buffering mechanism, Ru-based catalysts

Received: May 28, 2025 Revised: July 4, 2025 Published online: August 8, 2025 16146480, 2025, 37, Downloaded from thttps://advanced.onlinelibrary.wilej.co.mdoi/10.11002/anm.202502910 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2056]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensee

- a) N. Ramaswamy, S. Mukerjee, Chem. Rev. 2019, 119, 11945; b) H. Chen, R. Tao, K. Bang, M. Shao, Y. Kim, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022, 12, 2200934; c) S. Liu, Y. Wang, T. Jiang, S. Jin, M. Sajid, Z. Zhang, J. Xu, Y. Fan, X. Wang, J. Chen, Z. Liu, X. Zheng, K. Zhang, Q. Nian, Z. Zhu, Q. Peng, T. Ahmad, K. Li, W. Chen, ACS Nano 2024, 18, 4229; d) L. An, X. Zhao, T. Zhao, D. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2021, 14, 2620; e) W. Chen, Y. Jin, J. Zhao, N. Liu, Y. Cui, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2018, 115, 11694.
- [2] a) E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 6665; b) J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. N. Bates, T. D. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z.-F. Ma, Q. Jia, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 15594; c) I. T. McCrum, M. T. M. Koper, Nat. Energy 2020, 5, 891.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

- [3] a) L. Su, H. Wu, S. Zhang, C. Cui, S. Zhou, H. Pang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2414628; b) Q. Wang, H. Wang, H. Cao, C.-W. Tung, W. Liu, S.-F. Hung, W. Wang, C. Zhu, Z. Zhang, W. Cai, Y. Cheng, H. B. Tao, H. M. Chen, Y.-G. Wang, Y. Li, H. B. Yang, Y. Huang, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 916.
- [4] a) X. (Baohua) Zhang, L. Xia, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208821; b) P. Han, X. Yang, L. Wu, H. Jia, J. Chen, W. Shi, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *36*, 2304496; c) J. Ohyama, T. Sato, Y. Yamamoto, S. Arai, A. Satsuma, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 8016; d) X. Song, X.-G. Zhang, Y.-L. Deng, Z.-A. Nan, W. Song, Y. Wang, L. Lü, Q. Jiang, X. Jin, Y. Zheng, M. Chen, Z. Xie, J.-F. Li, Z.-Q. Tian, F. R. Fan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 12717; e) W. Ni, J. L. Meibom, N. U. Hassan, M. Chang, Y.-C. Chu, A. Krammer, S. Sun, Y. Zheng, L. Bai, W. Ma, S. Lee, S. Jin, J. S. Luterbacher, A. Schüler, H. M. Chen, W. E. Mustain, X. Hu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 773.
- [5] a) Z. Cui, Z. Ren, C. Ma, B. Chen, G. Chen, R. Lu, W. Zhu, T. Gan, Z. Wang, Z. Zhuang, Y. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 2404761; b) Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454; c) S. Zhu, X. Qin, F. Xiao, S. Yang, Y. Xu, Z. Tan, J. Li, J. Yan, Q. Chen, M. Chen, M. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 711.
- [6] a) X. Q. Mu, S. L. Liu, M. Y. Zhang, Z. C. Zhuang, D. Chen, Y. R. Liao, H. Y. Zhao, S. C. Mu, D. S. Wang, Z. H. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *136*, 2319618; b) H. Shi, Y. Yang, P. Meng, J. Yang, W. Zheng, P. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, Z. Cheng, C. Zong, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 16619; c) Y. Fang, C. Wei, Z. Bian, X. Yin, B. Liu, Z. Liu, P. Chi, J. Xiao, W. Song, S. Niu, C. Tang, J. Liu, X. Ge, T. Xu, G. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1614.

- [7] a) R. Pan, W. Lv, X. Ge, X. Huang, Q. Hu, K. Song, Q. Liu, H. Xie, B. Wu, J. Yuan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *35*, 2414193; b) X. Yin, H. Shi, Y. Wang, X. Wang, P. Wang, H. Yu, *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2024**, *40*, 2312007.
- [8] a) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300; b) Y. Wang, X. Wang, H. Ze, X. Zhang, P. M. Radjenovic, Y. Zhang, J. Dong, Z. Tian, J. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *133*, 5772; c) S. Zhu, X. Liu, X. Wang, Q. Zhao, M. Shao, *Joule* **2024**, *8*, 1890.
- [9] J. Zheng, Y. Yan, B. Xu, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F1470.
- [10] Y. Xue, L. Shi, X. Liu, J. Fang, X. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651.
- [11] a) W. Jiao, Z. Ren, Z. Cui, C. Ma, Z. Shang, G. Chen, R. Lu, T. Gan, Z. Wang, Y. Xiong, Y. Han, *Nat. Commun.* **2025**, *16*, 883; b) Z. Huang, S. Hu, M. Sun, Y. Xu, S. Liu, R. Ren, L. Zhuang, T.-S. Chan, Z. Hu, T. Ding, J. Zhou, L. Liu, M. Wang, Y.-C. Huang, N. Tian, L. Bu, B. Huang, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1097.
- [12] a) P. Li, Y. Jiao, Y. Ruan, H. Fei, Y. Men, C. Guo, Y. Wu, S. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 6936; b) I. Khalil, M. G. Rigamonti, K. Janssens, A. Bugaev, D. Arenas Esteban, S. Robijns, T. Donckels, M. T. Beydokhti, S. Bals, D. De Vos, M. Dusselier, *Nat. Catal.* **2024**, *7*, 921.
- [13] a) P. Li, Y. Jiang, Y. Hu, Y. Men, Y. Liu, W. Cai, S. Chen, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 900.
- [14] a) Y. Zhou, W. Yuan, M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Song, Y. Yang, J. Wang, L. Li, W. Ding, W.-F. Lin, Z. Wei, *Nat. Energy* **2024**, *9*, 1297; b) T. Jiang, K. Li, S. Park, K. Zheng, Y. Meng, Y. Yuan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhu, X. Zheng, S. Liu, W. Chen, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 1741.