---
source: Tran 等 - 2021 - Electrodeposited NiRh alloy as an efficient low‐precio.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 31.902s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:29:12.357684Z
---

#### RESEARCH ARTICLE

# Electrodeposited NiRh alloy as an efficient low-precious metal catalyst for alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction

Dinh Son Tran | Hyanjoo Park | Hoyoung Kim | Soo-Kil Kim

School of Integrative Engineering, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, South Korea

#### Correspondence

Soo-Kil Kim, School of Integrative Engineering, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseokno, Dongjak-gu, Seoul 06974, South Korea.

Email: [sookilkim@cau.ac.kr](mailto:sookilkim@cau.ac.kr)

#### Funding information

Chung-Ang University, Grant/Award Number: Young Scientist Scholarship (CAYSS) in 2019; National Research Foundation of Korea, Grant/Award Number: 2018M1A2A2062000

#### Summary

Developing a non-precious or low Pt-group metal-containing (low-PGM) hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) catalyst is crucial to fabricate economic anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs), an alternative to proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC). In this study, low-PGM Ni100-xRhx electrocatalysts, seldomly studied as alkaline HOR catalysts, with various compositions are fabricated via electrodeposition. Substantial changes are observed in both the morphology and crystalline structure of the catalysts when Ni is alloyed with Rh, such as enlarged surface area and development of different textures. The HOR activities of Ni100-xRhx catalysts evaluated in 0.1 M KOH solution are dramatically enhanced because of the enlarged surface area, bifunctional roles of H-providing sites (Ni/Rh) and OH-providing sites (Ni [OH]2/Rh2O3), and their balanced composition on the surface. The durability of Ni89Rh11, the most appropriate catalyst, is investigated with the 3000 potential cycling, giving the average decay rate of approximately 0.30 μA cm−<sup>2</sup> /cycle. The origin of enhanced activity and degradation during durability test was explained in terms of the electronic structures and surface composition of the catalysts. The initial high HOR activity of about 1.5 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for Ni89Rh11 at 0.05 VRHE, though it requires a further improvement in the durability, suggests the practical feasibility of it as a low PGM alkaline HOR catalyst.

#### KEYWORDS

activity, anion exchange membrane fuel cell, bifunctional effect, durability, electrodeposition, hydrogen oxidation reaction, low-PGM catalyst, nickel-rhodium alloy catalyst

# 1 | INTRODUCTION

Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) are the most widely studied fuel cells. They have a wide range of applications because of their high efficiency and power density, relative facile fabrication, and low operating temperature.1-3 However, their high cost due to the exclusive use of expensive Pt and Pt-based catalysts3,4 is still considered an obstacle to commercialization, despite the efforts to increase the mass activity of Pt.5,6 As a promising alternative to PEMFCs, anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) have been receiving increasing attention mainly because they comprise non-precious metals and alloy catalysts in alkaline media with relatively high activity and stability.7,8 Another benefit of using alkaline media, compared with acidic media, is the enhanced kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).9,10 Several cost-effective electrocatalysts for the ORR at the cathode with activities comparable to that of Pt in alkaline media have been reported.11,12 However, at the anode side where the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) occurs, a significant drop in the HOR activity is

Int J Energy Res. 2020;1–12. [wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/er](http://wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/er) © 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd 1

observed when the electrolyte is switched from an acidic to a basic system. Previous studies have demonstrated that the HOR activity of the most active catalyst, Pt, in alkaline media is two orders of magnitude smaller than that in acid.13-16 Thus, along with the optimization of the catalyst layer structures,<sup>17</sup> it is necessary to develop highly active HOR electrocatalysts to improve the AEMFC technology.

In alkaline media, two factors affect the activity of a catalyst for HOR: hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and the OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption (OHads, oxophilicity) of the catalyst. The mechanism of HOR in alkaline media can be described in two different ways: through the HOR pathway using OH<sup>−</sup> in the solution, or by performing OHads on the electrocatalyst surface.18-20 In the first pathway, hydrogen species (Hads) react with OH<sup>−</sup> from the solution18,19; therefore, the adsorption energy of hydrogen on the catalyst should be neither too high nor too low. For the second pathway, Hads reacts with the adsorbed OHads to form water; therefore, the catalyst surface must provide active sites for the adsorption of both hydrogen atoms and hydroxyl species. Hence, it is necessary to design multifunctional electrocatalysts that can provide an adsorbent surface for both hydrogen and hydroxide species to enhance the HOR activity in alkaline media.16,18,21,22

Because of their appropriate HBE on the catalyst surface, Pt and Pt group metals (PGM) show the highest HOR rate observed so far. Several Pt- and PGM-based catalysts have been investigated, such as Pt or Pd supported on activated carbon (Pt/C, Pd/C),<sup>18</sup> PtRu,<sup>21</sup> PtAu alloys,<sup>23</sup> Pt-coated Cu nanowires (Pt/CuNWs),<sup>24</sup> and Ir/C.<sup>25</sup> However, the use of high amounts of Pt and PGM increases the cost of AEMFCs and hence hampers their commercialization. Therefore, it is crucial to develop a cost-effective, durable, and high-activity non-precious or low-PGM HOR catalyst in alkaline media to fabricate practical AEMFCs.

Among the various non/low-PGM HOR catalysts, Nibased materials in alkaline media have been receiving the highest attention. Although the HOR activity of Ni is much lower than that of Pt,18 numerous efforts have been made to combine it with other transition elements in bimetallic or trimetallic materials to improve its activity. As a result, several effective Ni-based catalysts have been reported, such as Raney Ni,<sup>18</sup> CoNiMo,<sup>26</sup> NiCu,<sup>27</sup> and NiMo.<sup>28</sup>

Rh is a well-known noble metal that exhibits high catalytic activity toward many important industrial processes such as petroleum refinement, energy conversion and storage,<sup>19</sup> automobile engineering, and catalysis of both reduction and oxidation reactions.<sup>29</sup> Although several Rh-based materials have been used as electrocatalysts for HOR/HER in acidic media,19,30-32 only a few studies have investigated on their application in alkaline media.19,33,34

In this study, we prepared Ni100-xRhx catalysts with a low concentration of Rh by electrodeposition and examined their catalytic activity for HOR in alkaline media. Electrodeposition is a highly useful method for fabricating alloy catalysts for various energy conversion reactions such as ORR,35-37 hydrogen production via water electrolysis,38-44 and electrochemical CO2 reduction.45-49 The alloy composition of the NiRh catalyst can be easily controlled by varying the Ni and Rh precursor concentration in the electrolyte using electrodeposition method. In this work, the catalytic activities of various compositioncontrolled NiRh catalysts were investigated using different electrochemical and spectroscopic methods to explore the alloying effects, changes in the morphologies, and the oxidation status of each component. Furthermore, a durability test was performed with the best-performing NiRh catalyst, and the factors affecting the durability were investigated.

### 2 | EXPERIMENTAL

The Ni100-xRhx catalysts were synthesized by electrodeposition using a conventional three-electrode system. A rotating disk electrode with 3-mm diameter glassy carbon (GC Metrohm) was used as the working electrode. A Pt plate (Metrohm) and Ag/AgCl (Ag/AgCl, 3 M KCl, Metrohm) were employed as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. The electrolyte consisted of (50 − x) mM NiSO46H2SO4 (DEAJUNG) and x mM RhCl3 (ALDRICH), which were used as the sources for Ni and Rh, respectively. The supporting electrolyte comprised 0.1 M NaCl (DEAJUNG) and 0.3 M H3BO3 (DEAJUNG). The metal precursors were dissolved in 18.2 MΩ deionized water. To remove other dissolved gases, the electrolytes were purged with N2 for 20 minutes prior to the deposition. The GC surface was polished using Al2O3 powder with the grain size of 0.3 μm and subsequently sonicated in deionized water and dried with N2 gas. The electrodeposition process was carried out by the chronoamperometry method using a potentiostat (Metrohm, Autolab, PGSTAT302N) at room temperature. The atomic ratio of NiRh catalysts was controlled by varying the precursor concentration at the electrodeposition potential of −1.2 VAg/AgCl for 15 seconds at 1600 rpm.

The HOR activity of the prepared catalysts was tested in 0.1 M KOH solution. To minimize the capacitive and oxidation currents of the surface,<sup>26</sup> the HOR current was recorded after the application of each voltage for 15 seconds at 5-mV intervals varying from −0.998 to −0.788 VAg/AgCl. The polarization curves were reported with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The activity of the Pt/C catalyst was also examined as a reference. The Pt/C catalyst (0.2 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> ) was prepared by drop-casting 14 μL of the Pt/C stock solution onto the GC disk. The stock solution consisted of 10 mg Pt/C (40 wt%, TKK), 0.2 mL Nafion solution (5 wt%), 4 mL isopropanol, and 5.8 mL deionized water. The roughness factor (RF) was evaluated from the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) of the catalyst surface in the non-Faradaic potential region for each catalyst at a scan rate of 10 to 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in N2 purged 0.1 M KOH for 10 seconds between each scan.<sup>50</sup> The specific current density of each catalyst was calculated using the kinetic current obtained from Koutecky-Levich equation and the real surface area (RF × geometric area of the electrode). These electrochemical measurement methods were also used for pure Ni and Rh catalysts in order to study the enhancement in their activity through alloying. One of the samples, which was chosen with respect to the geometric/specific HOR current densities and the amounts of Rh contents, was used for an accelerated degradation test (ADT) with 3000 cycles under the same potential range to investigate the durability of the catalyst. An electrochemical impedance analysis for the catalyst before and after the ADT test was also performed with AC signal of 5 mV superimposed at 0.05 VRHE in the frequency range of 10<sup>5</sup> to 10−<sup>2</sup> Hz. To study the spectroscopic analysis, Ni100-xRhx catalysts as well as pure Ni and Rh catalysts were prepared on a detachable GC tip of 5-mm diameter (Pine Research Instrumentation, AFED050P040GC) under the same electrodeposition conditions. Fieldemission scanning microscopy (FE-SEM, Sigma, Carl Zeiss) and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS, Noran System 7, Thermo Fisher Scientific) were employed to analyse the surface morphologies and bulk atomic compositions of the prepared catalysts. Using the charge flow during the electrodeposition and the EDS analysis results, the electrodeposited amounts of Rh have been calculated to be in the range of 0.16 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> (Rh100) to 0.0084 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> (Ni96Rh4) at most (Note that 100% of faradaic efficiency for the electrodeposition was assumed and the actual amounts of electrodeposited Rh might be smaller than the calculations due to the hydrogen generation during the electrodeposition).The crystal structure of the catalysts was studied by performing Xray diffraction (XRD; New D8-Advance, Bruker-AXS, Bruker Corporation) at a scanning rate of 5/min in the 2θ range of 30 to 80. The change in the electronic structure due to alloying and HOR test was confirmed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, K-alpha+, ThermoFisher Scientific).

## 3 | RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Table 1 shows the atomic bulk compositions of Ni100-xRhx derived from EDS analysis, and Figure 1 shows their morphologies observed by FE-SEM. The EDS analysis suggested that the ratio of Ni:Rh in the alloys can be controlled by modifying the concentration of Ni and Rh precursors in the electrolyte, as the amounts of Rh in the deposits increased when the ratio between the concentrations of RhCl3 and NiSO4 is increased. Figure 1A, the SEM image of the Ni100 catalyst, shows plate-like flat morphology for pure Ni. In contrast, the surfaces of Ni100-xRhx and Rh100 deposits were covered with a large number of hemispherical particles of size ranging from 50 to 150 nm. When very small amounts of Rh precursor (0.5 mM) are added in the electrolyte, Ni100 changes to the Ni96Rh4 catalyst with particulate morphology (Figure 1B). The size of the particle gradually increases when the Rh composition in the alloy is increased up to 24% (Figure 1C-F). When the Rh composition is further increased to 44%, a slight decrease in the alloy particle size is observed (Figure 1G). This change in morphology is presumably owing to the difference in the surface energies of the two metals. Since the surface energy of Rh is higher than that of Ni,51,52 pure Rh deposits resulted in a relatively higher agglomerated surface (Figure 1H) than that obtained with pure Ni deposits (Figure 1A). Agglomeration of the Ni100-xRhx alloy is initiated when 4% of Rh is added to it, and a positive relationship, in general, is observed between the degree of agglomeration and the Rh amount.

The XRD data of the prepared Ni100-xRhx catalysts are presented in Figure 2. Figure 2A corresponds to the XRD data of the catalysts deposited for 15 seconds under the conventional conditions listed in Table 1, while Figure 2B corresponds to the catalysts deposited under the same conditions but with the increased deposition time of 300 seconds. The peaks for the GC substrate are observed at 43.1 and 78.2, corresponding to the (100) and (110) planes of GC, respectively. For all Ni100, Ni100-xRhx, and Rh100 catalyst samples deposited for 15 seconds (Figure 2A), no peaks are observed other than those of the carbon substrate. This is either because of the non-crystalline structures of the deposits or because of insufficient amounts or thickness of the deposit for such a short deposition period. To identify the reason, the electrodeposition time is increased to 300 seconds, and the XRD analysis results for these samples are slightly different as shown in Figure 2B. Two small peaks corresponding to Ni (111) at 44.5 and Ni (200) at 51.9, respectively, and a large peak corresponding to Ni (220) at 76.4 were observed in the Ni100 catalyst, which imply that the electrodeposited Ni has a crystalline structure.

TABLE 1 Atomic composition of the prepared catalysts and their electrodeposition conditions

| Bulk atomic composition | Electrolyte configuration (mM) |       |      |       | Deposition potential (V) vs | Deposition |
|-------------------------|--------------------------------|-------|------|-------|-----------------------------|------------|
| (by EDS)                | NiSO4                          | RhCl3 | NaCl | H3BO3 | Ag/AgCl (3 M KCl)           | time (s)   |
| Ni100                   | 50                             | 0     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Ni96Rh4                 | 49.5                           | 0.5   | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Ni95Rh5                 | 49                             | 1     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Ni89Rh11                | 48                             | 2     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Ni86Rh14                | 47                             | 3     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Ni76Rh24                | 46                             | 4     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Ni56Rh44                | 45                             | 5     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |
| Rh100                   | 0                              | 5     | 100  | 300   | −1.2                        | 15         |

FIGURE 1 FE-SEM images of the electrodeposited catalysts: A, Ni100, B, Ni96Rh4, C, Ni95Rh5, D, Ni89Rh11, E, Ni86Rh14, F, Ni76Rh24, G, Ni56Rh44, and H, Rh100. Insets are low-magnitude images. The compositions were obtained from EDS

FIGURE 2 XRD patterns of the electrodeposited catalysts: glassy carbon (black), Ni100 (gray), Ni96Rh4 (cyan), Ni95Rh5 (red), Ni89Rh11 (blue), N86Rh14 (green), Ni76Rh24 (orange), Ni56Rh44 (magenta), and Rh100 (brown). A, Deposition for 15 seconds. B, Deposition for 300 seconds [Colour figure can be viewed at [wileyonlinelibrary.com\]](http://wileyonlinelibrary.com)

Therefore, the absence of peaks for all the deposited catalysts in Figure 2A was due to the insufficient amounts of the deposit when the electrodeposition was performed 15 seconds only. The most interesting phenomenon observed for the NiRh alloys is that the preferential facet of Ni changed from (220) to (111) and (200) when alloyed with up to 11% Rh (Figure 2B). As the shape of a faceted crystal is determined by the growth of the surface with the lowest growth rate,<sup>53</sup> the growth rate of Ni (220) may accelerate in the presence of Rh, which changes the dominant crystallographic planes of Ni to (111). No distinct peak for Rh (111) was observed with 11% Rh content. However, when the Rh content was increased to 44%, the Ni (200) peak disappeared and the intensity of Ni (111) decreased. Instead, a broad peak composed of GC (100), left-shifted Ni (111), and right-shifted Rh (111) was observed because of the high degree of alloying between the small-sized Ni (atomic radius = 124 PM) and largesized Rh (atomic radius = 134 PM). Rh100 exhibited a clear peak of Rh (111) at 41.

The catalytic activities of Ni100-xRhx catalysts for the HOR are presented in Figure 3. As mentioned in our previous study,<sup>54</sup> the GC substrate does not show any activity for the HOR in KOH solution; therefore, it is not presented herein. The performance of the Pt/C catalyst was also measured for comparison. Similar to the previous studies,55-57 Pt showed an exceedingly high activity of 2.0 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at 0.05 VRHE. The Ni100 catalyst exhibited virtually no HOR activity, while the Rh100 catalyst exhibited excellent activity comparable to that observed for the Rh-Rh2O3 catalyst.<sup>19</sup> A very small cathodic current was observed for Ni100 at negative potentials, probably because of the reduction of NiO and Ni(OH)2 formed during electrodeposition in aqueous electrolyte and subsequent exposure of the Ni deposits to the atmospheric condition. The HOR activity of Ni visibly increased when a very small amount of Rh (4%) was added. However, the activity of Ni96Rh4 is not sufficient to bring the system to the mass transport-limited region even when a very high positive potential (0.15 V) was applied. As a result, the current density shows a gradual increase following positive polarization. When the Rh content is further increased, the limiting current was reached before polarization could be achieved at 0.15 V and slightly gentler slopes of the Tafel and linear regions than those of Pt/C were observed. It should also be noted that the onset potentials of Pt/C and most of NiRh catalysts differed by only 10 mV. These observations imply that both the kinetic and thermodynamic performances of NiRh catalysts are comparable with those of Pt/C. For a more precise comparison, the HOR current densities for the samples at 0.05 VRHE and 0.1 VRHE are summarized and presented in Figure 3B. At 0.1 VRHE, where the systems for most catalysts are under mass transport limitation, the limiting currents for all samples, except for Ni96Rh4, are in the range of 2.20 to 2.53 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . The activities of Ni100-xRhx catalysts at 0.05 VRHE, where the system is controlled by charge transport (kinetic), the current densities of NiRh catalysts showed, in general, a proportional relationship with Rh contents, and Ni56Rh44 exhibited the maximum current density of 1.58 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . This performance (current density) is somewhat higher than those of previously reported binary catalysts at 0.05 VRHE, such as NiMo supported on Ketjen Black (0.9 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ),<sup>28</sup> PdRu core-shell/alloy catalysts (less than 1.3 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ),<sup>58</sup> and CeOx-decorated Pd/C (1 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ),<sup>59</sup> still has a room for further

 ${\bf FIGURE~3}$  — A, HOR polarization curves for Pt/C and Ni<sub>100-x</sub>Rh<sub>x</sub> catalysts in 0.1 M KOH solution and B, performance comparison at 0.05 V<sub>RHE</sub> and 0.1 V<sub>RHE</sub> [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

improvement when compared with a ternary CoNiMo catalyst (over 2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>).<sup>26</sup> For all samples, a marginal fluctuation in the current densities at both potentials  $(0.05 V_{RHE})$  and  $0.1 V_{RHE}$ ) was observed, which can be explained with the help of the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA). To compare the ECSAs of the catalysts, electrochemical double-layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$ , which represents the electrochemical surface area, 50 was estimated by measuring the CV in N2-purged 0.1 M KOH solution at a non-Faradaic potential range by adjusting the scan rate. The half difference between the anodic and cathodic currents ( $[i_a - i_c]/2$ ) is plotted against the scan rate in Figure 4A. The slope values corresponding to  $C_{\rm dl}$ are extracted from Figure 4A and summarized in Figure 4B. The Ni<sub>100</sub> catalyst had the smallest surface area with the lowest  $C_{\rm dl}$  (0.05 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). The  $C_{\rm dl}$  of NiRh catalysts, and therefore their surface area, has a positive relationship with the atomic ratio of Rh with a slight variation. The surface area of Rh<sub>100</sub> was observed to increase

**FIGURE 4** Measurement of electrochemical double-layer capacitance. A, Half-current difference ( $[i_a - i_c]/2$ ) at the middle point of the potential with respect to the scan rate. B, Comparison of C<sub>dl</sub> for the Ni<sub>100-x</sub>Rh<sub>x</sub> catalysts [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

dramatically and become higher than that of other catalysts at the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of 0.64 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>. Based on a comparison of the surface area trend shown in Figure 4B with the activities depicted in Figure 3B, it can be reasonably concluded that the increase in the electrochemical surface area is, in general, one of the factors responsible for the increased HOR activities of NiRh alloy catalysts, although there is a slight variation from the proportional relation for samples with low Rh. Other factors than the surface area, which involve the activity will be further discussed with the XPS results at the later section with respect to the bifunctional role of Rh and changes in the HBE when alloyed with Rh.

To compare the intrinsic activity of the catalysts, the RF was first determined by dividing the measured  $C_{\rm dl}$  by the average specific capacitance of Ni (40  $\mu$ F cm<sup>-2</sup>), <sup>50</sup> and then the specific current density was derived by dividing the kinetic current density (from Koutecky-Levich

equation) by the RF obtained. The calculated specific activities are re-plotted in Figure 5A and the specific current densities at 0.05 V RHE are summarized in Figure 5B. Unlike the proportional but fluctuating trend of the geometric current density shown in Figure 3B, the results obtained using the specific current density demonstrate an apparent difference between the catalysts (Figure 5A) exhibiting a volcano-like behavior based on the Rh contents (Figure 5B). In particular, the Ni<sub>95</sub>Rh<sub>5</sub> catalyst exhibited the maximum specific activity of 2.25 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.05 V RHE. A further increase in the Rh contents decreased the activities, resulting in the specific activity of 0.48 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.05  $V_{RHE}$  for the Rh<sub>100</sub> catalyst. The results obtained based on the HOR activity and specific activity evaluations suggest that while pure Ni catalyst exhibited almost no catalytic activity, the intrinsic activity against HOR significantly improved when a small amount of Rh was added to form an alloy catalyst. The geometric activities at 0.05 V<sub>RHE</sub>, excluding Pt, are in the order of  $Rh_{100} > Ni_{56}Rh_{44} > Ni_{89}Rh_{11} > Ni_{95}Rh_5 \sim$  $Ni_{76}Rh_{24} > Ni_{86}Rh_{14} > Ni_{96}Rh_4$  (Figure 3B), while the specific activities at the same potential are in the order of  $Ni_{95}Rh_5 > Ni_{89}Rh_{11} > Ni_{86}Rh_{14} \sim Ni_{56}Rh_{44} > Ni_{76}Rh_{24} >$  $Rh_{100} \sim Ni_{96}Rh_4$ . Considering these trends and also the necessity of using smaller amounts of PGM, Ni<sub>100-x</sub>Rh<sub>x</sub> catalysts with  $5 \le x \le 11$  seem to be the most appropriate candidates for the HOR catalyst.

Based on the activity test results, the Ni<sub>89</sub>Rh<sub>11</sub> catalyst was chosen to investigate the durability by repeating 3000 potential cycles; the results are presented in Figure 6. The polarization curves in Figure 6A show that the catalyst activity was maintained during the first 100 cycles and then decreased gradually during the rest of the cycling test. The current density at  $0.05 \ V_{RHE}$ remained approximately  $1.46~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$  at the 100th cycle and decreased to 1.30 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at the 500th cycle. When the cycling number was increased to up to 3000, a rapid decrease in the activity was observed and a value of 0.60 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> was obtained (Figure 6B). The average decay rate was approximately 0.30 μA cm<sup>-2</sup>/cycle. As clearly observed in the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis results in Figure 6C, the charge transfer resistance of the as-made Ni<sub>89</sub>Rh<sub>11</sub> catalyst has been increased from  $34.78 \Omega \text{ cm}^2$  to  $42.93 \Omega \text{ cm}^2$  after the durability test indicating the activity loss of the catalyst.

Changes in the surface morphologies and the bulk compositions before and after the durability test are given in Figure 7. No substantial change was observed in the morphologies after the durability test, indicating that the degradation in activity may not be related to the morphology. However, after 3000 repetitive cycles, the alloy composition of the Ni<sub>89</sub>Rh<sub>11</sub> catalyst changed to Ni<sub>86</sub>Rh<sub>14</sub>, owing to a slight dissolution of Ni during the

FIGURE 5 Specific activity of Ni<sub>100-x</sub>Rh<sub>x</sub> catalysts obtained by dividing the kinetic current from Koutecky-Levich equation by the real surface area (roughness factor x geometric electrode area). A, Polarization curves. B, Comparison of specific activity at  $0.05 V_{RHE}$ [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

NiscRh14

Ni76Rh24

0.5

potential cycling. This increase in the Rh content of the catalyst is one of the reasons responsible for the decreased activity, as observed in Figures 3B and 5B. However, the decrease in the activity after the durability test is more substantial than that observed for the asmade Ni<sub>89</sub>Rh<sub>11</sub> and Ni<sub>86</sub>Rh<sub>14</sub> catalysts, implying that factors other than the composition change are responsible for the decreased activity after the durability test.

To further study the origin of the activity change after the durability test of the catalysts, XPS analyses of Ni<sub>100</sub>, Rh<sub>100</sub>, and Ni<sub>89</sub>Rh<sub>11</sub> catalysts before and after the durability test were performed, and the results are presented in Figure 8. The electronic structures of each sample are analyzed from the XPS results and are summarized in Table 2. The as-made Ni<sub>100</sub> catalyst consisted of 39.56% of Ni metal, 28.49% of NiO, and 31.95% of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, while the Ni<sub>89</sub>Rh<sub>11</sub> catalyst comprised 22.70% of Ni metal,

FIGURE 6 A, Durability test for Ni89Rh11 catalyst through 3000 repetitive cycles, B, comparison of catalyst performance at 0.05 VRHE and 0.1 VRHE according to the cycles, and C, electrochemical impedance analysis before and after the durability test [Colour figure can be viewed at [wileyonlinelibrary.com](http://wileyonlinelibrary.com)]

11.12% of NiO, and 66.18% of Ni(OH)2. This change can be explained by the difference in the electronegativities of Rh (2.2) and Ni (1.9), resulting in the transfer of electron from Ni to Rh when alloyed. In contrast, the asmade Rh100 catalyst comprised 48.21% of Rh metal, 44.51% of Rh2O3, and 7.28% of RhO2, which changed to 57.74%, 38.91%, and 3.35%, respectively, for the Ni89Rh11 catalyst because of the electron-withdrawing effect. After 3000 cycles of the durability test, the Ni metal content decreased to 14.65%, the NiO amount increased to 24.26%, and the Ni(OH)2 content slightly decreased to 61.09%. With 73.99%, the Rh metal dominated the Ni89Rh11 catalyst after 3000 cycles, while the amounts of Rh2O3 and RhO2 decreased to 22.97% and 3.04%, respectively.

The enhanced activity of the Ni catalyst in the presence of Rh could be ascribed to the change in the HBE and the bifunctional effect. First, the hydrogen adsorption energy on the pure Ni surface is much higher than that of some precious metal catalysts such as Pt and Pd18,26,60; as a result, a pure Ni surface shows very low activity for the HOR. It has been suggested that the formation of multi-metallic bonds in alloyed Ni catalysts modifies the HBE value.26,28,60 Since Rh has a lower HBE value than Ni,61 the presence of Rh in the alloy may decrease the adsorption energy of hydrogen on the catalyst surface and increase the HOR activity. The calculated values of surface segregation energy<sup>62</sup> indicated that Rh tends to segregate toward the surface of alloyed Ni (111). In addition to the modulation of the HBE by alloying, the intrinsic high activity of Rh (Figure 3A), partially segregated on the surface, is beneficial for the HOR activity of the NiRh alloy catalyst. The bifunctional role of Rh species on the surface also needs to be investigated. Kundu et al19 reported that the presence of Rh2O3 on the surface provides the site for OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption, while metallic Rh acts as a site for H adsorption to enhance the HOR activity in alkaline media. Ramaswamy et al63 also suggested different cases of catalytic systems for HOR in correlation with the electrochemical double-layer structures. Adopting this theory, the NiRh alloy catalyst might fall in the category of "bimetallic system II," where the precious metal (such as Rh in this work) provides sites for hydrogen adsorption and the transition metal (such as Ni in this work) forms Ni-OHad, suggesting the occurrence of the bifunctional effect. Therefore, the balance between the H-providing sites (mostly the metallic portion of the NiRh alloy) and the OH-providing sites (mostly the oxide/hydroxide portion) is important. After the durability test, the quantity of surface Ni(OH)2 and Rh2O3 substantially decreased (−15.9% for Rh2O3 and −5.1% for Ni(OH)2), while that of metallic Rh increased (+16.3%). Although the content of the metallic Ni decreased (−8.0%), the overall change in the surface composition of the catalysts may cause deterioration of their activity. That is, the balanced composition between the H-

FIGURE 7 FE-SEM images of Ni89Rh11 catalyst A, before (as-made) durability test and B, after 3000 repetitive cycles of durability test

FIGURE 8 XPS spectra of as-made Ni100, as-made Rh100, and Ni89Rh11 catalysts before (as-made) and after 3000 cycles of durability test. A, Ni 2p3/2 and B, Rh 3d [Colour figure can be viewed at [wileyonlinelibrary.com](http://wileyonlinelibrary.com)]

providing sites (Ni and Rh) and the OH-providing sites (Ni(OH)2 and Rh2O3) in the as-made Ni89Rh11 has been twisted after the durability test to the direction of less providing of OH and more providing of H.

As a summary, the above results show that NiRh alloy catalysts with very low contents of Rh (5%-11%) exhibited high HOR activity in alkaline media, which is comparable with (geometric activity) or higher than (specific activity) that of the Rh100 catalyst. The enhanced activity can be explained in terms of the increased electrochemical surface area, modification of HBE, and the bifunctional effect. However, poor durability owing to changes in the surface composition is still an obstacle for the commercialization of NiRh alloys.

### 4 | CONCLUSIONS

Low-PGM NiRh catalysts were fabricated using electrodeposition. By adjusting the concentration of Ni and Rh precursors, the composition of Ni100-xRhx was easily controlled. When Rh is added, the morphology of the Ni

TABLE 2 Electronic structures of as-made Ni100, as-made Rh100, and Ni89Rh11 catalysts before (as-made) and after 3000 cycles of durability test

|                            | Ni metal | NiO    | Ni(OH)2 |
|----------------------------|----------|--------|---------|
| As-made Ni100              | 39.56%   | 28.49% | 31.95%  |
| Ni89Rh11 Before durability | 22.70%   | 11.12% | 66.18%  |
| Ni89Rh11 After 3000 cycles | 14.65%   | 24.26% | 61.09%  |
|                            |          |        |         |
|                            | Rh metal | Rh2O3  | RhO2    |
| As-made Rh100              | 48.21%   | 44.51% | 7.28%   |
| Ni89Rh11 Before durability | 57.74%   | 38.91% | 3.35%   |

catalyst changed from plate-like flat to particulate type and the surface roughness increased. The catalytic activity of Ni significantly enhanced when a small amount of Rh is added. Based on the trends of HOR activity and specific activity, and the need to lower the amount of the precious metal used, 5% to 11% of Rh concentration seems to be the most appropriate value for fabricating optimal Ni100-xRhx electrocatalysts for HOR. The half-cell HOR performances obtained using some of the NiRh catalysts have comparable activities with those of pure Rh catalysts. However, changes in the surface compositions of the NiRh catalyst during the 3000 cycling durability test adversely affected the performance, which hinders the commercialization of the catalyst. Hence, more studies should be performed to develop methods for enhancing the durability of Ni100-xRhx electrocatalysts.

### ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This research was supported by the Chung-Ang University Young Scientist Scholarship (CAYSS) in 2019. This work was also supported by the National Research Foundation (NRF) of Korea grant funded by the Korean government (Ministry of Science and ICT [MSIT]) (grant number: 2018M1A2A2062000).

### DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### NOMENCLATURE

AEMFC anion exchange membrane fuel cell EDS energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy FE-SEM field-emission scanning electron microscopy

GC glassy carbon

HER hydrogen evolution reaction. HOR Hydrogen oxidation reaction

ORR oxygen reduction reaction

PEMFC proton exchange membrane fuel cell

PGM platinum-group metal

RHE reversible hydrogen electrode XPS X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy

XRD X-ray diffraction

### REFERENCES

- 1. Kulikovsky AA. Fuel cell basics. Analytical Modeling of Fuel Cells. Amsterdam, Netherlands: Elsevier; 2019:30. [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-44-464222-6.00008-3) [org/10.1016/B978-0-44-464222-6.00008-3](https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-44-464222-6.00008-3).
- 2. Hartnig C, Roth C. Operation and durability of low temperature fuel cells. Polymer Electrolyte Membrane and Direct Methanol Fuel Cell Technology: Fundamentals and Performance of Low Temperature Fuel Cells. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing; 2012:137. [https://doi.org/10.1533/9780857095473.2.137.](https://doi.org/10.1533/9780857095473.2.137)
- 3. Bhatt S, Gupta B, Sethi VK, Pandey M. Polymer exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell: a review. Int J Curr Eng Technol. 2012;2:219-226.
- 4. Bashyam R, Zelenay P. A class of non-precious metal composite catalyst for fuel cells. Nature. 2006;4:63-66. [https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature05118) [10.1038/nature05118](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature05118).
- 5. Ostroverkh A, Dubau M, Kúš P, et al. Durable ultra-lowplatinum ionomer-free anode catalyst for hydrogen proton exchange membrane fuel cell. Int J Energy Res. 2020;44:4641- 4651.<https://doi.org/10.1002/er.5245>.
- 6. Yarar Kaplan B, Haghmoradi N, Jamil E, Merino C, Alkan Gürsel S. Platinum nanoparticles decorated carbon nanofiber hybrids as highly active electrocatalysts for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells. Int J Energy Res. 2020;44:1-11. [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1002/er.5646) [org/10.1002/er.5646.](https://doi.org/10.1002/er.5646)
- 7. Pan J, Chen C, Zhuang L, Lu J. Designing advanced alkaline polymer electrolyte for fuel cell applications. Acc Chem Res. 2012;45:473-481.<https://doi.org/10.1021/ar200201x>.
- 8. Gottesfeld S, Dekel DR, Page M, et al. Anion exchange membrane fuel cells: current status and remaining challenges. J Power Sources. 2018;375:170-184. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.08.010) [jpowsour.2017.08.010](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.08.010).
- 9. Spendelow JS, Wieckowski A. Electrocatalysis of oxygen reduction and small alcohol oxidation in alkaline media. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2007;9:2654-2675. [https://doi.org/10.1039/B703315J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/B703315J)
- 10. Varcoe JR, Atanassov P, Dekel DR, et al. Anion-exchange membranes in electrochemical energy systems. Energy Environ Sci. 2014;7:3135-3191. [https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE01303D.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE01303D)
- 11. Nie Y, Li L, Wei Z. Recent advancements in Pt and Pt-free catalyst for oxygen reduction reaction. Chem Soc Rev. 2015;44:2168- 2201.<https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00484A>.
- 12. Chung HT, Won JH, Zelenay P. Active and stable carbon nanotube/nanoparticle composite electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction. Nat Commun. 2013;4:1922. [https://doi.org/10.1038/](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms2944) [ncomms2944.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms2944)
- 13. Sheng W, Gasteiger HA, Shao-Horn Y. Hydrogen oxidation and evolution reaction kinetics on platinum: acid vs alkaline electrolytes. J Electrochem Soc. 2010;157:B1529-B1536. [https://](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.3483106) [doi.org/10.1149/1.3483106](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.3483106).
- 14. Markovica N, Sarraf ST, Gasteiger HA, Ross PN Jr. Hydrogen electrochemistry on platinum low-index single-crystal surfaces

- in alkaline solution. J Chem Soc Faraday Trans. 1996;92:3719- 3275.<https://doi.org/10.1039/FT9969203719>.
- 15. Rheinlander PJ, Herranz J, Durst J, Gasteiger HA. Kinetics of the hydrogen oxidation/evolution reaction on polycrystalline platinum in alkaline electrolyte reaction order with respect to hydrogen pressure. J Electrochem Soc. 2014;161:F1148-F1457. <https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0501414jes>.
- 16. Sheng W, Zhuang Z, Gao M, Zheng J, Chen JG, Yan Y. Correlating hydrogen oxidation and evolution activity on platinum at different pH with measured hydrogen binding energy. Nat Commun. 2015;6:5848.<https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms6848>.
- 17. Xie X, Zhou J, Wu S, Park JW, Jiao K. Experimental investigation on the performance and durability of hydrogen AEMFC with electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. Int J Energy Res. 2019;43:8522-8535.<https://doi.org/10.1002/er.4851>.
- 18. Davydova ES, Mukerjee S, Jaouen F, Dekel DR. Electrocatalysts for hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline electrolytes. ACS Catal. 2018;8:6665-6690. [https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00689) [acscatal.8b00689](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b00689).
- 19. Kundu MK, Mishra R, Bhowmik T, Barma S. Rhodium nanostructures metal–rhodium with oxide (Rh–Rh2O3) Pt-like or better activity towards hydrogen evolution and oxidation reactions (HER, HOR) in acid and base: correlating its HOR/- HER activity with hydrogen binding energy and oxophilicity of the catalyst. J Mater Chem A. 2018;6:23531–23541. [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA07028H) [org/10.1039/C8TA07028H.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA07028H)
- 20. Cong Y, Yi B, Song Y. Hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline media: from mechanism to recent electrocatalysts. Nano Energy. 2018;44:288-303. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.12.008) [12.008](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.12.008).
- 21. Strmcnik D, Uchimura M, Wang C, et al. Improving the hydrogen oxidation reaction rate by promotion of hydroxyl adsorption. Nat Chem. 2013;5:300-306. [https://doi.org/10.1038/](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.1574) [nchem.1574.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.1574)
- 22. Alesker M, Page M, Shviro M, et al. Palladium/nickel bifunctional electrocatalyst for hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline membrane fuel cell. J Power Sources. 2016;304:332-339. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.11.026>.
- 23. Mahoney EG, Sheng W, Yan Y, Chen JG. Platinum-modified gold electrocatalysts for the hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline electrolytes. Chem Electro Chem. 2014;1:2058-2063. [https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201402159.](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201402159)
- 24. Alia SM, Pivovar BS, Yan Y. Platinum-coated copper nanowires with high activity for hydrogen oxidation reaction in base. J Am Chem Soc. 2013;135:13473−13478. [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja405598a) [1021/ja405598a.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja405598a)
- 25. Zheng J, Zhuang Z, Xu B, Yan Y. Correlating hydrogen oxidation/evolution reaction activity with the minority weak hydrogen-binding sites on Ir/C catalysts. ACS Catal. 2015;5: 4449-4455.<https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00247>.
- 26. Sheng W, Bivens AP, Myint M, et al. Non-precious metal electrocatalyst with high activity for hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline electrolytes. Energy Environ Sci. 2014;7:1719-1724. [https://doi.org/10.1039/C3EE43899F.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C3EE43899F)
- 27. Cherstiouk OV, Simonov PA, Oshchepkov AG, et al. Electrocatalysis of the hydrogen oxidation reaction on carbonsupported bimetallic NiCu particles prepared by an improved wet chemical synthesis. J Electroanal Chem. 2016;783:146-151. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2016.11.031.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2016.11.031)

- 28. Kabir S, Lemire K, Artyushkova K, et al. Platinum group metalfree NiMo hydrogen oxidation catalysts: high performance and durability in alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells. J Mater Chem A. 2017;5:24433–24443.<https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA08718G>.
- 29. Yuan Y, Yan N, Dyson PJ. Advances in the rational design of rhodium nanoparticle catalysts: control via manipulation of the nanoparticle Core and stabilizer. ACS Catal. 2012;2:1057-1069. [https://doi.org/10.1021/cs300142u.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs300142u)
- 30. Durst J, Simon C, Hasché F, Gasteiger HA. Hydrogen oxidation and evolution reaction kinetics on carbon supported Pt, Ir, Rh, and Pd electrocatalysts in acidic media. J Electrochem Soc. 2014;162:F190-F203. [https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0981501jes.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0981501jes)
- 31. Masud J, Nguyen TV, Singh N, et al. A RhxSy/C catalyst for the hydrogen oxidation and hydrogen evolution reactions in HBr. J Electrochem Soc. 2015;162:F455-F462. [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0901504jes) [1149/2.0901504jes](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0901504jes).
- 32. Uribe-Godínez J, García-Montalvo V, Jiménez-Sandoval O. Study of the oxygen reduction and hydrogen oxidation reactions on RhIrRu-based catalysts. Int J Hydrog Energy. 2016;41: 22520–22528. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.03.083.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.03.083)
- 33. Montero MA, de Chialvo MRG, Chialvo AC. Kinetics of the hydrogen oxidation reaction on nanostructured rhodium electrodes in alkaline solution. J Power Sources. 2015;283:181-186. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.02.133.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.02.133)
- 34. Wang H, Abruna HD. Rh and Rh alloy nanoparticles as highly active H2 oxidation catalysts for alkaline fuel cells. ACS Catal. 2019;9:5057-5062. [https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b00906.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b00906)
- 35. Tominaka S, Hayashi T, Nakamura Y, Osaka T. Mesoporous PdCo sponge-like nanostructure synthesized by electrodeposition and dealloying for oxygen reduction reaction. J Mater Chem. 2010;20:7175-7182.<https://doi.org/10.1039/C0JM00973C>.
- 36. Park H, Kim KM, Kim H, Kim D-K, Won YS, Kim S-K. Electrodeposition-fabricated PtCu-alloy cathode catalysts for hightemperature proton exchange membrane fuel cells. Korean J Chem Eng. 2018;35:1547-1555. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s11814-](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11814-018-0059-z) [018-0059-z](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11814-018-0059-z).
- 37. Linge JM, Erikson H, Kozlova J, Aruvali J, Sammelselg V, Tammeveski K. Oxygen reduction on electrodeposited silver catalysts in alkaline solution. J Solid State Electrochem. 2018; 22:81-89.<https://doi.org/10.1007/s10008-017-3724-y>.
- 38. Krstajic NV, Jovic VD, Gajic-Krstajic L, Jovic BM, Antozzi AL, Martelli GN. Electrodeposition of Ni–Mo alloy coatings and theircharacterization as cathodes for hydrogen evolution insodium hydroxide solution. Int J Hydrog Energy. 2008;33: 3676-3687. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2008.04.039.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2008.04.039)
- 39. Jafarian M, Azizi O, Gobal F, Mahjani MG. Kinetics and electrocatalytic behavior of nanocrystalline CoNiFe alloy in hydrogen evolution reaction. Int J Hydrog Energy. 2007;32: 1686-1693. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2006.09.030.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2006.09.030)
- 40. Hong SH, Ahn SH, Choi I, et al. Fabrication and evaluation of nickel cobalt alloy electrocatalysts for alkaline water splitting. Appl Surf Sci. 2014;307:146-152. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2014.03.197) [2014.03.197](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2014.03.197).
- 41. Carim AI, Saadi FH, Soriaga MP, Lewis NS. Electrocatalysis of the hydrogen-evolution reaction by electrodeposited amorphous cobalt selenide films. J Mater Chem A. 2014;2: 13835–13839.<https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA02611J>.
- 42. Irshad A, Munichandraiah N. Electrodeposited nickel−cobalt −sulfide catalyst for the hydrogen evolution reaction. ACS Appl

- Mater Interfaces. 2017;9:19746–19755. [https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b15399) [acsami.6b15399](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b15399).
- 43. Kim H, Park H, Kim D-K, Choi I, Kim S-K. Pulseelectrodeposited nickel phosphide for high-performance proton exchange membrane water electrolysis. J Alloys Compd. 2019; 785:296-304.<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2019.01.192>.
- 44. Kim H, Park H, Oh S, Kim S-K. Facile electrochemical preparation of nonprecious co-cu alloy catalysts for hydrogen production in proton exchange membrane water electrolysis. Int J Energy Res. 2019;44:1-12.<https://doi.org/10.1002/er.5099>.
- 45. Kottakkat T, Klingan K, Jiang S, et al. Electrodeposited AgCu foam catalysts for enhanced reduction of CO2 to CO. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2019;11:14734–14744. [https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b22071) [acsami.8b22071](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b22071).
- 46. Park H, Choi J, Kim H, et al. AgIn dendrite catalysts for electrochemical reduction of CO2 to CO. Appl Catal B Environ. 2017;219:123-131.<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2017.07.038>.
- 47. An X, Li S, Yoshida A, et al. Electrodeposition of tin-based electrocatalysts with different surface tin species distributions for electrochemical reduction of CO2 to HCCOH. ACS Sustain Chem Eng. 2019;7:9360-9368. [https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b00515) [acssuschemeng.9b00515.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b00515)
- 48. Morimoto M, Takatsuji Y, Yamasaki R, et al. Electrodeposited Cu-Sn alloy for electrochemical CO2 reduction to CO/HCOO−. Electrocatalysis. 2018;9:323-332. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s12678-](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12678-017-0434-2) [017-0434-2.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12678-017-0434-2)
- 49. Lu Y, Han B, Tian C, Wu J, Geng D, Wang D. Efficient electrocatalytic reduction of CO2 to CO on an electrodeposited Zn porous network. Electrochem Commun. 2018;97:87-90. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2018.11.002.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2018.11.002)
- 50. McCrory CCL, Jung S, Peters JC, Jaramillo TF. Benchmarking heterogeneous electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction. J Am Chem Soc. 2013;135:16977−16987. [https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p) [10.1021/ja407115p](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p).
- 51. Zhang J-M, Ma F, Xu K-W. Calculation of the surface energy of FCC metals with modified embedded-atom method. Appl Surf Sci. 2004;229:34-42. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2003.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2003.09.050) [09.050](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2003.09.050).
- 52. Wen Y-N, Zhang J-M. Surface energy calculation of the fcc metals by using the MAEAM. Solid State Commun. 2007;144: 163, 10.1016/j.ssc.2007.07.012-167.
- 53. Fredriksson H, Solidification AU. Faceted and dendritic solidification structures. Crystallization Processing in Metals and Alloys. New Jersey, NJ: Wiley & Sons; 2012:477. [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119975540.ch9) [org/10.1002/9781119975540.ch9](https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119975540.ch9).
- 54. Kim H, Park H, Tran DS, Kim S-K. Facile fabrication of amorphous NiMo catalyst for alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction. J Ind Eng Chem. Submitted.

- 55. Xiao W, Lei W, Wang J, et al. Tuning the structurally electrocatalytic activity of Pt by ordered PdFe/C for the hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline media. J Mater Chem A. 2018;6:11346–11352. [https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA03250E.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA03250E)
- 56. Qin B, Yu H, Jia J, et al. A novel IrNi@PdIr/C core-shell electrocatalyst with enhanced activity and durability for the hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline anion exchange membrane fuel cells. Nanocale. 2018;10:4872-4881. [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR09452C) [1039/C7NR09452C.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR09452C)
- 57. Liu D, Lu S, Xue Y, et al. One-pot synthesis of IrNi@Ir coreshell nanoparticles as highly active hydrogen oxidation reaction electrocatalyst in alkaline electrolyte. Nano Energy. 2019; 59:26-32.<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.01.070>.
- 58. Qin X, Zhang L, Xu G-L, et al. The role of Ru in improving the activity of Pd toward hydrogen evolution and oxidation reactions in alkaline solutions. ACS Catal. 2019;9:9614-9621. [https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01744.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b01744)
- 59. Singh RK, Davydova ES, Douglin J, et al. Synthesis of CeOxdecorated Pd/C catalysts by controlled surface reactions for hydrogen oxidation in anion exchange membrane fuel cells. Adv Funct Mater. 2020;30:2002087. [https://doi.org/10.1002/](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202002087) [adfm.202002087](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202002087).
- 60. Davydova ES, Zaffran J, Dhaka K, Toroker MC, Dekel DR. Hydrogen oxidation on Ni-based electrocatalyst: the effect of metal doping. Catalyst. 2018;8:454. [https://doi.org/10.3390/](https://doi.org/10.3390/catal8100454) [catal8100454.](https://doi.org/10.3390/catal8100454)
- 61. Frese KW Jr. Calculation of surface binding energy for hydrogen, oxygen and carbon atoms on metallic surfaces. Surf Sci. 1987;182:85-97. [https://doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028\(87\)90090-2](https://doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(87)90090-2).
- 62. Yu Y, Xiao W, Wang J, Wang L. Understanding the surface segregation behavior of transition metals on Ni(111): a firstprinciples study. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2016;18:26616–26622. <https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CP02983C>.
- 63. Ramaswamy N, Ghoshal S, Bates MK, Jia Q, Li J, Mukerjee S. Hydrogen oxidation reaction in alkaline media: relationship between electrocatalysis and electrochemical double-layer structure. Nano Energy. 2017;41:765-771. [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.07.053) [1016/j.nanoen.2017.07.053](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.07.053).

How to cite this article: Tran DS, Park H, Kim H, Kim S-K. Electrodeposited NiRh alloy as an efficient low-precious metal catalyst for alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction. Int J Energy Res. 2020;1–12. <https://doi.org/10.1002/er.6155>