---
source: Wang 等 - 2023 - Stabilizing Low‐Valence Single Atoms by Constructing Metalloid Tungsten Carbide Supports for Efficie.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 36.156s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:31:58.105143Z
---

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202311937 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202311937](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202311937)

# **Stabilizing Low-Valence Single Atoms by Constructing Metalloid Tungsten Carbide Supports for Efficient Hydrogen Oxidation and Evolution**

*Luqi Wang, Zipeng Xu, Chun-Han Kuo, Jian Peng, Feng Hu, Linlin Li, Han-Yi Chen, Jiazhao Wang, and [Shengjie](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1591-1301) Peng\**

**Abstract:** Designing novel single-atom catalysts (SACs) supports to modulate the electronic structure is crucial to optimize the catalytic activity, but rather challenging. Herein, a general strategy is proposed to utilize the metalloid properties of supports to trap and stabilize single-atoms with low-valence states. A series of singleatoms supported on the surface of tungsten carbide (M-WCx, M=Ru, Ir, Pd) are rationally developed through a facile pyrolysis method. Benefiting from the metalloid properties of WCx, the single-atoms exhibit weak coordination with surface W and C atoms, resulting in the formation of low-valence active centers similar to metals. The unique metal-metal interaction effectively stabilizes the low-valence single atoms on the WCx surface and improves the electronic orbital energy level distribution of the active sites. As expected, the representative Ru-WCx exhibits superior mass activities of 7.84 and 62.52 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> for the hydrogen oxidation and evolution reactions (HOR/HER), respectively. Indepth mechanistic analysis demonstrates that an ideal dual-sites cooperative mechanism achieves a suitable adsorption balance of Had and OHad, resulting in an energetically favorable Volmer step. This work offers new guidance for the precise construction of highly active SACs.

[\*] L. Wang, Z. Xu, Prof. F. Hu, Prof. L. Li, Prof. S. Peng College of Materials Science and Technology, Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Nanjing 210016 (China) E-mail: pengshengjie@nuaa.edu.cn

C.-H. Kuo, Prof. H.-Y. Chen Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Tsing Hua University Hsinchu 30013 (Taiwan)

J. Peng, Prof. J. Wang Institute for Superconducting and Electronic Materials Australian Institute for Innovative Materials, University of Wollongong Innovation Campus Squires Way, North Wollongong, NSW2522 (Australia)

### *Introduction*

The development of high-performance fuel cells and water electrolyzers urgently requires the design of advanced electrocatalysts for hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER).[1] The high cost and scarcity of noble metal-based catalysts with prominent catalytic activity have limited large-scale practical applications.[2] In addition, enhancing the ability of noble metal catalysts to resist CO poisoning is the key to designing high-performance fuel cells.[3] Currently, single-atom catalysts (SACs) are regarded as an effective strategy to reduce the loading of noble metals and obtain superior catalytic activity due to their high atom utilization and controllability.[4] The HOR/HER rates of SACs in alkaline electrolytes mainly depend on the hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and hydroxyl binding energy (OHBE).[5] Therefore, improving the electronic structure of single-atom active sites to achieve the adsorption balance of hydrogen (Had) and hydroxyl (OHad) is a prerequisite for enhancing electrocatalytic performance.[6] Generally, the electronic states of SACs are related to the local coordination environment between metal atoms and support materials, which has also been extensively studied.[7] However, it remains challenging to elucidate the structure-activity relationships between single-atom active sites and local coordination environments.

The supports of traditional SACs mainly include metal oxides, metal sulfides, and N/S doped carbon materials.[8] Single atoms can be stabilized by forming strong coordination bonds with neighboring electronegative elements (O/N/ S), which alters the electronic structure of the metal site and induces an increase in the valence state.[9] Due to the depressed charge cloud density and fewer d-band electrons, it is difficult for SACs with high valence states to match the catalytic reaction.[10] Meanwhile, the collapse of thermodynamically unstable high-valence single-atom sites under an applied potential exhibits insufficient catalytic performance.[11] Although utilizing carbon coordination with low electronegativity can effectively reduce the valence states of single-atom sites and enhance the catalytic activity, the stability of the catalysts is far from satisfactory.[12] Thus, developing novel supports with well-defined structures to optimize the charge distribution of single-atom sites is the focus of improving the performance of SACs. In this regard, transition metal carbides as ideal single-atom supports have

the advantages of exceptional corrosion resistance and efficient electron transport, ensuring that the electrocatalyst maintains high activity and stability in complex catalytic systems.[13] In particular, tungsten carbide (WC) with a wider d-band can modify the local interfacial electronic structure to present different catalytic pathways.[14] In addition, the metalloid properties of WC can trigger unique interactions with single atoms to stabilize the catalytic active sites and modulate the valence state, resulting in improved intrinsic activity compared with conventional catalyst supports.[15] Despite so many advantages, the fine-tuning of the coordi-

nation environment between WC and single-atom sites to achieve rational catalytic reaction pathways for HOR and HER is so far rarely reported. Therefore, adopting potential WC materials as supports for SACs are expected to be

superior electrocatalysts for HOR/HER.

Herein, we report a general strategy for single atoms dispersed on WCx supports (M-WCx, M=Ru, Ir, Pd) to achieve efficient HOR/HER activity. The multifunctional WCx as a robust single-atom carrier not only facilitates the high dispersion of active sites, but also accelerates the mass transfer and reaction kinetics. The weak coordination environment between single-atom and metalloid WCx restrains the rise of the valence state of the metal center, resulting in metal-metal interactions to adjust the charge distribution of the catalyst and stabilize the active sites. In addition, the single-atom active sites with valence states close to zero present an energy level distribution of electron orbitals suitable for the adsorption/desorption of intermediates, ultimately contributing to the HOR and HER processes. More importantly, the synergistic effect of the low-valence single-atom and adjacent tungsten sites rationally balances HBE and OHBE to optimize the progress of catalytic reaction steps. Impressively, the mass activities of Ru-WCx are 7.84 and 62.52 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> for HOR and HER in the alkaline environment, respectively, which is 30.05 and 13.09 times that of commercial Pt/C. This concept of SACs construction provides new insights into the design of bifunctional electrocatalysts and expands the ideas for the development of efficient energy conversion materials.

#### *Results and Discussion*

A facile pyrolysis strategy is performed to synthesize WCx nanoparticles with Ru single-atom loading (Ru-WCx), as shown in Figure 1a. Initially, metal-organic compounds with micro-spherical morphology are prepared by the coordination of Ru ions with dopamine molecules and tungstate (DA-RuW), in which the uniform distribution of Ru elements contributes to the formation of single-atom sites (Figure S1 and S2). Subsequently, the DA-RuW precursor is pyrolyzed to obtain Ru-WCx nanoparticles supported on the carbon matrix. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images show that Ru-WCx presents interconnected nanosheets aggregated to form a microsphere structure, which significantly increases the specific surface area and provides abundant electrode/electrolyte contact interfaces (Figure S3–S5). Meanwhile, the rough surface can store a large number of electrons endowing the catalyst with fast electrochemical kinetics and long-cycle capability. As shown in Figure 1b and 1c, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images confirm that the Ru-WCx nanoparticles are tightly embedded in the carbon matrix. The lattice fringe with a spacing of 0.252 nm is identified by high-resolution TEM (HRTEM), which can be assigned to the (100) crystal plane of WCx (Figure 1d). To verify the distribution of Ru species at the atomic scale, the structural information of Ru-WCx is analyzed by aberration-corrected high-angle annular darkfield scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) measurements. The HAADF-STEM image of Ru-WCx nanoparticles presents a bright and ordered array of W atoms along the [100] crystal direction (Figure 1e). It is worthwhile to mention that some less bright atomic columns on the surface of WCx can be distinguished as Ru atoms due to the lower atomic number of Ru relative to W.[16] The corresponding atomic intensity line scanning profiles present the distribution of isolated low-intensity Ru atoms, demonstrating the single-atom dispersed state of Ru on WCx (Figure 1f and 1 g). In addition, the energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping images indicate a homogeneous distribution of Ru, W, and C atoms without obvious Ru nanoparticles (Figure 1h and Table S1). The above analysis verifies the successful synthesis of the WCx catalyst with Ru single-atom loading by pyrolysis of metal compound precursors.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) characterization of Ru-WCx and WCx shows the hexagonal system structure of WC (JCPDS 72–97) and W2C (JCPDS 35–776) phases, mainly exposing the (100) plane of WC (Figure 2a). Compared with pristine WCx, the characteristic peaks of Ru-WCx cannot be observed to shift obviously, indicating that Ru single atoms are exclusively adsorbed on the surface of WCx. [17] The electronic interaction between single-atom sites and the supports is explored by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As shown in Figure 2b, two strong peaks in the W 4f region at binding energies of 31.26 and 33.41 eV are assigned to the W 4f7/2 and W 4f5/2 orbitals of W C, respectively (Figure S6).[15b] The peaks at higher binding energies of 35.12 and 37.27 eV arise from the inevitable surface oxidation of WCx. Notably, the binding energy of W 4f for Ru-WCx shows a positive shift compared with pristine WCx, indicating electron transfer from the WCx carrier to the Ru single-atom sites. Therefore, the unique WCx support as an electron donor can effectively reduce the valence state of Ru species to generate metal-metal interactions, which optimize the charge distribution at single-atom and stabilize the active sites. From the C 1s spectrum, characteristic peaks at 282.56, 283.86, and 285.23 eV are ascribed to the C W, C C, and C O bonds of WCx and Ru-WCx, respectively (Figure 2c). As for the Ru 3d spectrum of Ru-WCx, the peaks of Ru 3d5/2 and Ru 3d3/2 can be observed at binding energies of 279.91 and 280.82 eV, respectively, which reveal the low-valence state of Ru single atoms.[14a] The above results verify that the Ru single atoms adsorbed on the surface of WCx exhibit a low-valence state, which is expected to improve the electronic structure of the catalyst and enhance the catalytic activity.

*Figure 1.* Structural characterization of Ru-WCx. a) Schematic illustration for the synthesis process of Ru-WCx. b) TEM and c,d) HRTEM images of Ru-WCx. e) HAADF-STEM image of Ru-WCx. f) Intensity profile of the single site in Figure 1e. g) Proposed a structural model of Ru-WCx. h) Elemental mapping of Ru, W, and C in Ru-WCx, respectively.

The local electronic structure and coordination environment of Ru single-atom sites were further determined by Xray absorption fine structure (XAFS). In the normalized Xray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) of the Ru K-edge, the oxidation state of Ru-WCx is close to Ru foil and the intensity of the white line peak is significantly lower than that of RuO2 (Figure 2d).[18] Based on the evaluation of the first derivative curves, the valence state of the Ru singleatom sites in Ru-WCx is confirmed to be +0.18, thus providing a low-valence electronic structure similar to that of metallic Ru (Figure S7 and S8). According to the Fourier transform extended XAFS (FT-EXAFS) spectrum, the peaks of Ru-WCx at 1.57 Å and 2.72 Å are attributed to

Ru C and Ru W bonds, respectively, confirming the isolated dispersion of Ru atoms in Ru-WCx (Figure 2e). Notably, the absorption edge of Ru-WCx exhibits a slight shift towards higher energy in the W L3-edge XANES spectrum compared with pure WCx, indicating an increase in the oxidation state of W in Ru-WCx (Figure 2g). Combined with the Ru K-edge and W L3-edge XANES spectra, the existence of charge transport between Ru single atom and WCx carrier can be inferred, which improves the local electronic configuration. Furthermore, two peaks corresponding to the W C and W W bonds can be found in the W L3-edge FT-EXAFS of Ru-WCx (Figure 2h). Interestingly, the bond length of Ru W (3.08 Å) is much larger than

*Figure 2.* The fine structure analysis of Ru-WCx. a) XRD patterns of Ru-WCx and WCx, respectively. XPS spectra of the b) W 4f and c) C 1s and Ru 3d regions for Ru-WCx and WCx, respectively. d) Ru K-edge XANES spectra and e) FT-EXAFS spectra of the RuO2, Ru foil, and Ru-WCx, respectively. f) Wavelet transform for k3 -weighted EXAFS signal of RuO2, Ru foil, and Ru-WCx, respectively. g) W L3-edge XANES spectra and h) FT-EXAFS spectra of the WO3, W foil, WCx, and Ru-WCx, respectively.

that of W W (2.71 Å) in Ru-WCx, suggesting that atomically dispersed Ru species are weakly coordinated on the WCx surface (Figure S9 and Table S2). This is the main reason for the reduction of the valence state of Ru single atoms. The wavelet transform (WT) of the Ru K-edge and W L3-edge EXAFS oscillations of Ru-WCx also intuitively prove this phenomenon (Figure 2f and S10–S11). The XAFS and XPS analysis synergistically demonstrate that Ru single atoms with weak coordination on the WCx support generate metallike low-valence electronic structures to induce metal-metal interactions, which lays the foundation for optimizing the adsorption/desorption process of reaction intermediates.

Inspired by the unique electronic structure of the Ru-WCx catalysts, the HOR electrocatalytic performance was evaluated in an H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution using a typical three-electrode system. The optimized Ru-WCx (2.39 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) exhibits a higher current density than Ru/C (0.54 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) and WCx (0.22 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) at an overpotential of 50 mV even better than commercial Pt/C (1.31 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) (Figure 3a and S12). Compared to saturated N2 condition, the fast current response of the Ru-WCx catalyst confirms the occurrence of HOR on the anode in the presence of H2 (Figure S13). In Figure 3b, the kinetic current density (jk) of the Ru-WCx catalyst is superior to that of Pt/C at various potentials, implying the enhanced HOR kinetics due to the improved electronic structure. The exchange current density (j0) of the electrocatalyst is determined by linear fitting of the micro-polarization region (Figure 3c).[19] Compared with Pt/C (1.42 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) and Ru/C (0.92 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), the Ru-WCx (4.72 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) catalyst shows optimal j0 (Table S3). This result indicates that the intrinsic activity of Ru-WCx is improved by the metal-metal interaction, achieving more brilliant catalytic performance. In addition, the polarization curves of Ru-WCx at different rotating speeds are detected to investigate the mass transport process in HOR (Figure 3d and S14). According to the Koutecky–Levich equation, the slope of the Ru-WCx catalyst is 4.78 cm2mA <sup>1</sup> s 1/2 from the fitting of the linear relationship between j <sup>1</sup> and ω 1/2 in the inset of Figure 3d. This is close to the theoretical value for HOR two-electron transfer (4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA <sup>1</sup> s 1/2).

To further explore the improved HOR performance, mass normalization is employed to quantitatively evaluate the HOR activity of the catalysts. The mass activity of Ru-WCx (7.844 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> ) is 30.05 times that of Pt/C

Figure 3. HOR and HER evaluations of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub>. a) HOR polarization curves in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a rotating rate of 1600 rpm. b) Tafel plots of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub>, WC<sub>x</sub>, Ru/C, and Pt/C. c) Linear fitting curves of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub>, WC<sub>x</sub>, Ru/C, and Pt/C in the micro-polarization region. d) HOR polarization curves for Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> at various rotation speeds. Inset: The Koutecky–Levich plot of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> at an overpotential of 50 mV. e) Comparison of the  $j_{k,m}$  of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> with recently reported noble metal catalysts. f) Chronoamperometry curves of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> and Pt/C in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH measured at 0.1 V. Inset: HOR polarization curves of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> and Pt/C before and after 2000 CV cycles. g) The HER polarization curves of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub>, WC<sub>x</sub>, Ru/C, and Pt/C in 1 M KOH. h) The relationship between TOF and the tested potentials for Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> and Pt/C. i) Chronopotentiometry curve of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> at constant current densities of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Inset: HER polarization curves of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> before and after 3000 CV cycles.

(0.261 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) at an overpotential of 50 mV, highlighting the advantage of Ru single atoms in HOR (Figure S15 and Table S4). Meanwhile, the  $j_{0.s}$  normalized by the electrochemical active area (ECSA) is larger than that of commercial Pt/C (Table S5).  $^{[20]}$  Notably, the HOR catalytic activity of Ru-WC $_{x}$  also exceeds most of the recently reported noble-metal-based catalysts (Figure 3e and Table S6). In Figure 3f, the Ru-WC $_{x}$  catalyst still maintains 93.37% activity after continuous operation at an overpotential of 100 mV for 40 h.

Moreover, Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> shows negligible potential decay after 2000 cycles. After the durability test, the morphology and oxidation state of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> are well maintained (Figure S16 and S17). This suggests that the metal-metal interaction at the interface of low-valence Ru single atoms with WC<sub>x</sub> can contribute to the structural stability of the catalyst. The HER performance of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> is further investigated to reveal the bifunctional catalytic activity (Figure 3g). The overpotential of the Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> catalyst is

only 16 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is significantly lower than that of commercial Pt/C (32 mV) (Figure S18–S20). As in Figure 3h, the turnover frequency (TOF) is calculated to understand the intrinsic activity of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub>. Specifically, the TOF value of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> is about 7.09 times that of Pt/C at an overpotential of 50 mV, indicating that the intrinsic activity of Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> is enhanced by improving the coordination environment of Ru single atoms. In addition, Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> exhibits remarkable stability for 100 h at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and preserves the original morphology and electronic structure (Figure 3i and S21–S22). The above results demonstrate that satisfactory HOR and HER electrochemical activities are achieved by modulating the electronic structure of single-atom Ru sites in Ru-WC<sub>x</sub> catalysts.

Operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) at various voltages was implemented to gain insight into the adsorption and desorption kinetics of reaction intermediates on Ru active sites. The Nyquist plots of Ru-

*Angewandte*

WCx show a smaller semicircular trend than that of Pt/C under the applied potentials from 0 to 0.15 V (Figure 4a–b and S23, Table S7). This suggests that the Ru-WCx catalyst surface is favorable for the adsorption of reactants during the HOR/HER process, which is attributed to the optimized low-valence state Ru single-atom sites with electronic structures matching the reaction intermediates.[21] As shown in Figure 4d and 4e, the response of the low-frequency and high-frequency regions is derived from the interfacial charge transfer and inner-layer electron transport of the catalyst in the Bode plots, respectively.[22] Compared with Pt/C, the rapid decrease of the phase angle peak of Ru-WCx in the low-frequency region verifies the facilitated charge transfer at the catalyst interface, stimulating the reaction kinetics of HOR/HER. Furthermore, the binding energies of Had (HBE) and OHad (OHBE) on the catalyst surface are crucial for the HOR and HER activities in alkaline media. The desorption of the underpotential deposited hydrogen (Hupd) is one of the important methods to evaluate the strength of Had bonding.[23] In Figure 4c, the Hupd peak of Ru-WCx appears at 0.14 V, which is more negative than that of Pt/C (0.21 V) and Ru/C (0.29 V), implying a weaker HBE. The reduction of HBE is attributed to the metallization of lowvalence state Ru single-atom sites caused by the weak coordination effect, resulting in weakened Ru H bond energy.[24] This promotes the rate-determining step (RDS) of HOR and HER in alkaline media. Similarly, the OHad binding behavior on the surface of the electrocatalyst is monitored by the CO stripping technique.[25] The CO oxidation peak of Ru-WCx is negatively shifted by 40 mV relative to that of Pt/C, indicating that the Ru-WCx catalyst has a stronger binding with OHad (Figure 4f). The favorable OHBE of the Ru-WCx catalyst not only modulates the HOR and HER processes but also improves the CO tolerance. As expected, the HOR current of Ru-WCx exhibits a negligible change in H2 gas containing 100 ppm CO, confirming that OHad can effectively oxidize CO to prevent catalyst poisoning (Figure 4g). Meanwhile, the HOR activity of Ru-WCx is reduced by only 5.65% after continuous operation for 2000 s in the presence of CO impurities (Figure S24). This is also consistent with the results of zeta potential measurements (Figure 4h). Therefore, the weakened HBE and enhanced OHBE on the Ru-WCx catalyst surface achieve the adsorption balance be-

*Figure 4.* Mechanism investigation. Nyquist plots of a) Ru-WCx and b) Pt/C at different voltages. c) CV curves of Ru-WCx, WCx, Ru/C, and Pt/C in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH. Bode phase plots of d) Ru-WCx and e) Pt/C at different voltages. f) CO-stripping profiles on Ru-WCx, WCx, Ru/C, and Pt/ C. g) HOR polarization curves of Ru-WCx in 100 ppm CO/H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. h) Zeta potentials of Ru-WCx, WCx, Ru/C, and Pt/C.

tween Had and OHad to obtain superior HOR and HER performances.

The influence of low-valence state Ru single-atoms on the HOR and HER performances is further investigated by density functional theory (DFT) (Figure S25). The differential charge density of Ru-WCx is visually displayed in Figure 5a to elucidate the electronic states of the Ru single atom. The charge accumulation between the Ru single atom and the WCx support in the Ru-WCx catalyst further confirms the formation of metal-metal interactions, which effectively stabilizes the active centers. According to the Bader charge analysis, the Ru single atoms in Ru-WCx ( 0.12 je j) exhibit a charge close to the metallic state, which is consistent with the XANES results (Figure 5b). The total density of states (DOS) of the Ru-WCx catalyst shows a higher occupation at the Fermi level compared with WCx and Ru, suggesting that the electronic coupling between Ru and W atoms reduces the charge transfer resistance (Figure 5c).[26]

Noticeably, the d-band center of Ru-WCx (Ru) is lower than metallic Ru in the partial density of states (PDOS) plot (Figure 5d and 5e). Based on the d-band theory, the decline of the d-band center implies that the adsorption of reaction intermediates on the Ru site is weakened, promoting the subsequent evolution steps of H2O or H2. [27] The above results suggest that the formation of metal-metal interactions can lead to charge redistribution and modulate the energy band structure.

*Figure 5.* Theoretical calculation of HOR/HER activation energy. a) Differential charge density of Ru-WCx, the yellow and blue zones represent the charge accumulation and dispersion, respectively. b) Bader charge analysis of Ru-WCx. c) The DOS plots of Ru, WCx, and Ru-WCx. d) D-band centers of Ru-WCx (Ru), Ru-WCx (W), and Ru. e) Comparison of D-band centers of Ru-WCx (Ru), Ru-WCx (W), and Ru. Adsorption free energy of f) H\* and g) OH\* intermediates on the Ru-WCx (Ru), Ru-WCx (W), WCx, and Ru, respectively. The energy barriers for h) H2O formation and i) H2O adsorption on Ru-WCx, WCx, and Ru, respectively. j) The relationship between the calculated ΔGOH\*, ΔGH2O\*, ΔGH\* values and HOR current density at an overpotential of 50 mV. k) Schematic illustration of the catalytic mechanism for HOR/HER on the Ru-WCx.

15213757, 2023, 42, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202311937 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

The catalytic reaction pathways of HOR and HER are further elucidated by calculating the Gibbs free energy of the intermediates on the Ru-WCx system. From a thermodynamic point of view, the adsorption free energy of H\* (ΔGH\*) is close to zero, implying favorable H2 adsorption and H\* desorption.[28] As shown in Figure 5f, the ΔGH\* of the Ru and W atomic sites in the Ru-WCx catalyst are 0.11 eV and 0.28 eV, respectively (Figure S26). The ΔGH\* of the optimized low-valence Ru single-atom is close to the thermoneutral value to achieve smaller reaction energy barriers for the adsorption and desorption of H\*. The reaction energy barrier of Ru-WCx (W) declines to 1.16 eV lower than that of Ru-WCx (Ru) ( 0.82 eV) during the OH\* adsorption process (Figure 5g and S27). The OH\* intermediate is beneficial to preferentially adsorb on W sites, which effectively prevents the poisoning of Ru single-atom and appropriately enhances the OHBE. As expected, the Volmer step of the Ru-WCx catalyst is dramatically accelerated due to the weakened OHBE and enhanced HBE. Specifically, the free energy of H2O formation (ΔGH2O) of Ru-WCx only requires 0.31 eV, which is much lower than that of WCx (0.91 eV) and Ru (0.69 eV) (Figure 5h and S28). Moreover, the adsorption energy of H2O (ΔEH2O) on the catalyst surface is an important factor affecting the HER. The Ru-WCx ( 1.11 eV) catalyst shows more negative adsorption energy than WCx ( 0.68 eV) and Ru ( 0.51 eV), indicating that H2O can be conveniently activated on the Ru-WCx surface to drive the HER process (Figure 5i).[29] Therefore, the improved reaction energy barrier facilitates the HOR and HER of the Ru-WCx catalyst (Figure 5j and 5k). Overall, the unique Ru and W dual-sites synergy in the Ru-WCx catalyst optimally balances HBE and OHBE, promoting the depressed Volmer step and realizing the bifunctional catalytic activity of HOR and HER.

To verify the universality of low-valence single atoms decorated with weak coordination environments, Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx electrocatalysts are prepared. SEM and TEM measurements show that WCx nanoparticles are well dispersed on the spherical carbon matrix in Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx (Figure S29–S32). The XRD patterns of Ir-WCx and Pb-WCx present good phase purity and mainly expose the (100) plane of WC, without diffraction peaks related to Ir or Pd (Figure S33). Furthermore, the HAADF-STEM images and corresponding atomic intensity profiles demonstrate the existence of atomically dispersed Ir and Pd single atoms (Figure 6a–c). In the EXAFS spectra, the absence of Ir Ir and Pd Pd bonds also further verifies the successful preparation of Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx single-atom catalysts, which is consistent with the fitting results (Figure 6d–e and S34). As expected, the bond lengths of Ir W and Pd W are larger than the W W bond of WCx, which reveals the weak coordination environment of Pd and Ir single atoms (Table S8). The result is also confirmed by wavelet transform spectral analysis (Figure S35). Similarly, Pd and Ir single atoms have metal-like low-valence electronic structures due to the contribution of the weak coordination environment (Figure S36–S43). Benefiting from the electronic properties matched to the catalytic reaction, the mass activity of Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx catalysts is better than commercial Pt/C for HOR and HER (Figure 6f and S44– S46). The exchange current densities of Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx calculated from the linear fitting of the micro-polarization region demonstrate the optimized kinetics (Figure S47). In addition, Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx catalysts also achieve superior stability and CO tolerance (Figure S48–S54). DFT calculations reveal that the coordinated modulation of HEB and OHBE lowers the reaction energy barrier of the Volmer step, realizing the bifunctional catalytic activity of HOR and HER (Figure 6g and S55–S60). The Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx catalysts exhibit high electron densities near the Fermi level, indicating enhanced electrical conductivity (Figure S61). Therefore, the regulation strategy of inducing low-valence single atoms through weak coordination environments is also applicable to other metals (Figure 6h).

### *Conclusion*

In summary, we propose a general strategy to modulate HOR and HER catalytic activity at single-atom sites. A facile pyrolysis method is employed to successfully load a series of single-atoms on the WCx surface (M-WCx, M=Ru, Ir, Pd). In particular, WCx with metallic band states as a carrier for single-atoms can trigger the formation of a unique weak coordination environment. Due to the appropriate coordination environment, the single atoms exhibit lowvalence states close to zero and induce metal-metal interactions with WCx to stabilize the active sites. The optimized low-valence single-atom active sites acquire an electronic structure suitable for HOR and HER, which is a key factor in achieving high catalytic performance. In addition, DFT calculations further elucidate that the dual-sites cooperative mechanism can balance the adsorption behavior of Had and OHad, resulting in a significant reduction of the thermodynamic energy barrier of the Volmer step. As a result, the Ru-WCx electrocatalyst achieves brilliant mass activities of 7.84 and 62.52 AmgRu <sup>1</sup> towards HOR and HER under alkaline electrolytes, respectively, as well as extended longterm durability and decent CO tolerance. Our study gives valuable insight into the structure-activity relationship of SACs and guides the rational design of high-performance catalysts.

#### *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22075141 and 22101132), Scientific and Technological Innovation Special Fund for Carbon Peak and Carbon Neutrality of Jiangsu Province (BK20220039), Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20221482 and BK20210311), China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2021M691561 and 2021T140319), Jiangsu Postdoctoral Research Fund (2021K547C), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (NS2023032), State Key Laboratory for Modification of

*Figure 6.* Generality of weak coordination-induced low-valence single-atom concepts. HAADF-STEM images of a) Ir-WCx and b) Pd-WCx, respectively. c) Intensity profile of the single atom sites of Ir-WCx and Pd-WCx. FT-EXAFS spectra of d) Ir-WCx and e) Pd-WCx, respectively. f) HOR and HER mass activity comparison of Pt/C, Ir-WCx, and Pd-WCx, respectively. g) Adsorption free energy of H\* and OH\* intermediates on the Ir-WCx (Ir), Ir-WCx (W), Pd-WCx (Pd), and Pd-WCx (W), respectively. h) Schematic illustration of the mechanism for the enhanced HOR and HER activities of the as-prepared catalysts.

Chemical Fibers and Polymer Materials, Donghua University (KF2312).

### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Hydrogen Evolution Reaction **·** Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction **·** Low-Valence **·** Metal Carbides **·** Single-Atom Catalysts

[1] a) W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Héroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schüler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-022-01221-5)* **2022**, *21*, [804–810](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-022-01221-5); b) F.-Y. Gao, S.-N. Liu, J.-C. Ge, X.-L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y.-R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. Dong, X. Yu, R.-C.

- Bao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, Z.-G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M.-R. Gao, Y. Yan, S.-H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [993–1005](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00862-8); c) Z. Dong, Y. Nan, T. Tang, X.-Z. Liu, J. Fu, H.-R. Pan, Z. Jiang, L. Ding, X. Cheng, L.-R. Zheng, J. Zhang, X. Chang, B. Xu, J.- S. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, [7822–7830](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c01466).
- [2] a) L. Deng, F. Hu, M. Ma, S.-C. Huang, Y. Xiong, H.-Y. Chen, L. Li, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [22276–22282;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202110374) b) D. Yu, Y. Ma, F. Hu, C.-C. Lin, L. Li, H.-Y. Chen, X. Han, S. Peng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2101242; c) Y. Dong, Q. Sun, C. Zhan, J. Zhang, H. Yang, T. Cheng, Y. Xu, Z. Hu, C.- W. Pao, H. Geng, X. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2210328.
- [3] a) F.-Y. Gao, M.-R. Gao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2023**, *56*, [1445–1457;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.3c00071) b) Y. Yang, F.-Y. Gao, X.-L. Zhang, S. Qin, L.-R. Zheng, Y.- H. Wang, J. Liao, Q. Yang, M.-R. Gao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202208040; c) F.-Y. Gao, Y.-H. Wang, Y. Yang, J. Liao, J.-W. DuanMu, X.-L. Zhang, Z.-Z. Niu, P.-P. Yang, M.- R. Gao, *Nano Res.* **2023**, *16*, [10787–10795.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5792-x)
- [4] a) X. Guo, X. Wan, Q. Liu, Y. Li, W. Li, J. Shui, *[eScience](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esci.2022.04.002)* **2022**, *2*, [304–310;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esci.2022.04.002) b) Z. Yang, C. Chen, Y. Zhao, Q. Wang, J. Zhao, G. I. N. Waterhouse, Y. Qin, L. Shang, T. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208799; c) D. Wang, D. Jiao, M. Gong, H. Fan, Y. Chen, L. Wang, J. Fan, J. Wu, D. J. Singh, J. Zhao, W. Zheng, X. Cui, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *325*, [122331](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122331).

*Angewandte Chemie*

- [5] a) X. Zhang, L. Xia, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208821; b) J. Shan, C. Ye, C. Zhu, J. Dong, W. Xu, L. Chen, Y. Jiao, Y. Jiang, L. Song, Y. Zhang, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zhu, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [23214–23222.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c11374)
- [6] J. Cai, X. Zhang, Z. Lyu, H. Huang, S. Wang, L. Fu, Q. Wang, X.-F. Yu, Z. Xie, S. Xie, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, [6974–6982.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00803)
- [7] a) H. Jin, M. Ha, M. G. Kim, J. H. Lee, K. S. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2204213; b) C. Hu, J. Hu, Z. Zhu, Y. Lu, S. Chu, T. Ma, Y. Zhang, H. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202212397; c) T. Luo, J. Huang, Y. Hu, C. Yuan, J. Chen, L. Cao, K. Kajiyoshi, Y. Liu, Y. Zhao, Z. Li, Y. Feng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213058.
- [8] a) P. Rao, D. Wu, T.-J. Wang, J. Li, P. Deng, Q. Chen, Y. Shen, Y. Chen, X. Tian, *[eScience](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esci.2022.05.004)* **2022**, *2*, 399–404; b) L. Han, P. Ou, W. Liu, X. Wang, H.-T. Wang, R. Zhang, C.-W. Pao, X. Liu, W.-F. Pong, J. Song, Z. Zhuang, M. V. Mirkin, J. Luo, H. L. Xin, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabm3779; c) J. Wei, K. Xiao, Y. Chen, X.-P. Guo, B. Huang, Z.-Q. Liu, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE02151J) Sci.* **2022**, *15*, [4592–4600](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE02151J).
- [9] a) C. Chen, W. Ou, K.-M. Yam, S. Xi, X. Zhao, S. Chen, J. Li, P. Lyu, L. Ma, Y. Du, W. Yu, H. Fang, C. Yao, X. Hai, H. Xu, M. J. Koh, S. J. Pennycook, J. Lu, M. Lin, C. Su, C. Zhang, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008471; b) D. Feng, P. Wang, R. Qin, W. Shi, L. Gong, J. Zhu, Q. Ma, L. Chen, J. Yu, S. Liu, S. Mu, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2300342; c) T. He, Y. Song, Y. Chen, X. Song, B. Lu, Q. Liu, H. Liu, Y. Zhang, X. Ouyang, S. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *442*, [136337.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.136337)
- [10] a) R. Gao, J. Wang, Z.-F. Huang, R. Zhang, W. Wang, L. Pan, J. Zhang, W. Zhu, X. Zhang, C. Shi, J. Lim, J.-J. Zou, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00826-5) Energy* **2021**, *6*, [614–623;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00826-5) b) W. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Lin, J. Yao, X. Wu, C. Wu, X. Zuo, Q. Yang, B. Ge, L. Yang, G. Li, S. Chou, W. Li, Y. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2108464.
- [11] a) Z. Chen, L. Guo, L. Pan, T. Yan, Z. He, Y. Li, C. Shi, Z.-F. Huang, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103670; b) Z.-W. Wei, H.-J. Wang, C. Zhang, K. Xu, X.-L. Lu, T.-B. Lu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [16622–16627](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202104856).
- [12] S. Fang, X. Zhu, X. Liu, J. Gu, W. Liu, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Y. Lin, J. Lu, S. Wei, Y. Li, T. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1029.
- [13] a) C. Yang, R. Zhao, H. Xiang, J. Wu, W. Zhong, X. Li, Q. Zhang, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.107232)* **2022**, *98*, 107232; b) W. Peng, J. Han, Y.- R. Lu, M. Luo, T.-S. Chan, M. Peng, Y. Tan, *ACS [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c09841)* **2022**, *16*, [4116–4125.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c09841)
- [14] a) S.-C. Sun, H. Jiang, Z.-Y. Chen, Q. Chen, M.-Y. Ma, L. Zhen, B. Song, C.-Y. Xu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202202519; b) A. Salah, L. Zhang, H. Tan, F. Yu, Z. Lang, N. Al-Ansi, Y. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200332.
- [15] a) S. Li, B. Chen, Y. Wang, M.-Y. Ye, P. A. van Aken, C. Cheng, A. Thomas, *Nat. Mater.* **2021**, *20*, [1240–1247;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-021-01006-2) b) T. Ma, H. Cao, S. Li, S. Cao, Z. Zhao, Z. Wu, R. Yan, C. Yang, Y. Wang, P. A. van Aken, L. Qiu, Y.-G. Wang, C. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2206368.
- [16] J. Li, Y. Li, J. Wang, C. Zhang, H. Ma, C. Zhu, D. Fan, Z. Guo, M. Xu, Y. Wang, H. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2109439.
- [17] J. Yin, J. Jin, M. Lu, B. Huang, H. Zhang, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [18378–18386.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c05050)

- [18] a) J. Zhang, G. Chen, Q. Liu, C. Fan, D. Sun, Y. Tang, H. Sun, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209486; b) K. Xiao, R.-T. Lin, J.-X. Wei, N. Li, H. Li, T. Ma, Z.-Q. Liu, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [4980–4985](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4140-x).
- [19] X. Wang, L. Zhao, X. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, Q. Yao, J. Xie, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1596.
- [20] Y. Men, X. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. Ge, S. Jia, L. Li, J. Wang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01448) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [12661–12672](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01448).
- [21] a) P. Yan, T. Yang, M. Lin, Y. Guo, Z. Qi, Q. Luo, X.-Y. Yu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301343; b) H. Su, W. Zhou, W. Zhou, Y. Li, L. Zheng, H. Zhang, M. Liu, X. Zhang, X. Sun, Y. Xu, F. Hu, J. Zhang, T. Hu, Q. Liu, S. Wei, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6118.
- [22] a) W. Gou, Z. Xia, X. Tan, Q. Xue, F. Ye, S. Dai, M. Zhang, R. Si, Y. Zou, Y. Ma, J. C. Ho, Y. Qu, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.107960)* **2022**, *104*, [107960](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.107960); b) Q. Qian, X. He, Z. Li, Y. Chen, Y. Feng, M. Cheng, H. Zhang, W. Wang, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300935.
- [23] a) M. Ma, G. Li, W. Yan, Z. Wu, Z. Zheng, X. Zhang, Q. Wang, G. Du, D. Liu, Z. Xie, Q. Kuang, L. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103336; b) T. Tang, X. Liu, X. Luo, Z. Xue, H.-R. Pan, J. Fu, Z.-C. Yao, Z. Jiang, Z.-H. Lyu, L. Zheng, D. Su, J.-N. Zhang, L. Zhang, J.-S. Hu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02487) Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [13805–13815.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02487)
- [24] J. Zhang, X. Qu, L. Shen, G. Li, T. Zhang, J. Zheng, L. Ji, W. Yan, Y. Han, X. Cheng, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2006698.
- [25] a) Y. Duan, X.-L. Zhang, F.-Y. Gao, Y. Kong, Y. Duan, X.-T. Yang, X.-X. Yu, Y.-R. Wang, S. Qin, Z. Chen, R. Wu, P.-P. Yang, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, T.-B. Lu, Z.-Y. Yu, S.-H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202217275; b) H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211854.
- [26] a) P. Prabhu, V.-H. Do, C. K. Peng, H. Hu, S.-Y. Chen, J.-H. Choi, Y.-G. Lin, J.-M. Lee, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, [10733–10747;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c02066) b) W.-K. Han, J.-X. Wei, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, X. Peng, S. Zhao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202206050.
- [27] X. Song, X.-G. Zhang, Y.-L. Deng, Z.-A. Nan, W. Song, Y. Wang, L. Lü, Q. Jiang, X. Jin, Y. Zheng, M. Chen, Z. Xie, J.-F. Li, Z.-Q. Tian, F. R. Fan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [12717–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02604) [12725](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02604).
- [28] a) Y. Liu, J. Ding, F. Li, X. Su, Q. Zhang, G. Guan, F. Hu, J. Zhang, Q. Wang, Y. Jiang, B. Liu, H. B. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2207114; b) B. Zhang, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, J. Wang, D. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Xia, M. Gao, Y. Liu, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5894.
- [29] a) Y. Chen, Y. Lee, W. Chu, J. Li, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.144922) Eng. J.* **2023**, *472*, [144922](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.144922); b) J. Hao, Z. Zhuang, K. Cao, G. Gao, C. Wang, F. Lai, S. Lu, P. Ma, W. Dong, T. Liu, M. Du, H. Zhu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2662.

Manuscript received: August 16, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: September 2, 2023 Version of record online: September 13, 2023