---
source: Wang 等 - 2025 - Inhibiting Dissolution of Platinum with Atomic Rare Earth Bridged by Nitrogen to Boost Alkaline Hydr.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 80.267s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:33:18.374509Z
---

# **Inhibiting Dissolution of Platinum with Atomic Rare Earth Bridged by Nitrogen to Boost Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution**

*Peng Wang, Zhanjin Wang, Jiarong Mu, Yihua Zhao, Jing Xu, Jinlu He,\* Jianfang Jing,\* and Yiguo Su\**

**The unfavorable water dissociation and continuous dissolution of Pt singleatom catalysts significantly impede their practical application in alkaline anion exchange membrane water electrolyzers (AEMWEs). Herein, by integrating the electron-buffer functionality of rare earth single atoms (RE = Pr, Ce, Gd, Sm) dispersed on N-doped carbon substrates (N**─**C) with Pt single atoms, a novel catalyst Pt/RE-N-C is reported. The constructed Pt**─**N**─**Ce bridge causes electron enrichment on Pt sites and deficiency on RE sites, which favors adsorption of Hads and OHads, respectively, and significantly promotes water dissociation. Meanwhile, the increased covalency of Pt**─**N bond inhibits detachment and thermal vibration of Pt atoms. As a representative, Pt/Ce**─**N**─**C requires an overpotential of only 22 mV to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The excellent mass activity of 7.16 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV is 37.7 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C (0.19 A mgPt<sup>−</sup>1). More importantly, the AEMWE with Pt/Ce**─**N**─**C (with a loading of only 32 µgPt cm<sup>−</sup>2) as the cathode catalyst exhibits an ultralow potential (1.79 V) and high stability at an industrial current density of 1.0 A cm<sup>−</sup>2. This work demonstrates the advantages and potential of using RE single atoms for high-efficient energy conversion.**

## **1. Introduction**

Alkaline anion exchange membrane water electrolyzers (AEMWEs) present attractive benefits in terms of high efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and reliability, positioning them as a promising solution for hydrogen generation.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) However, the sluggish kinetics and high overpotential of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) significantly impede the widespread application of AEMWEs.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) Although Pt-based catalysts are widely acknowledged as the most efficient catalysts for HER to date, their limited availability has led to high costs for hydrogen production.[\[3\]](#page-8-0)

Single-atom catalysts (SACs), with high atom utilization and highly active coordination of unsaturated metal sites, are

P. Wang, Z. Wang, J. Mu, Y. Zhao, J. Xu, J. He, J. Jing, Y. Su Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Chemistry and Physics of Rare Earth Materials

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Inner Mongolia University Hohhot 010021, China

E-mail: [hejinlu@imu.edu.cn;](mailto:hejinlu@imu.edu.cn) [jjf17@tsinghua.org.cn;](mailto:jjf17@tsinghua.org.cn) [cesyg@imu.edu.cn](mailto:cesyg@imu.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202502196>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202502196**

expected to address the above issues.[\[4,5\]](#page-8-0) Ndoped defective graphene or mesoporous carbon has been widely employed as a conductive substrate to enhance electron transfer process and ensure the dispersion of Pt SACs with nitrogen coordination, which subsequently improves the electrocatalytic activity and stability.[\[6–9\]](#page-8-0) However, the following issues still necessitate resolution before the practical application of Pt SACs in industrial water electrolysis (**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-1-0). The problem with catalytic stability for Pt SACs is that the inherent electronegativity difference between Pt and N leads to the tendency of electron accumulation on the N atom site, exacerbating the local charge imbalance of Pt─N bonds, diminishing the covalency of Pt─N bonds, and consequently weakening the binding interaction between Pt SACs and the carbon substrate. The dissolution of Pt can lead to the degradation of active sites and contamination of the electrolyte.[\[10\]](#page-8-0) Moreover, thermal vibrations

induced by the high operating temperature of AEMWEs could also exacerbate the detachment of Pt SACs from the carbon substrate, rendering them impractical for practical applications.[\[11\]](#page-8-0) The challenge with activity lies in the fact that the unfilled dorbital feature of Pt in the Pt─N bond can enhance the interaction between oxygen-containing intermediates and Pt sites.[\[12\]](#page-8-0) As a result, single-atom Pt sites exhibit strong adsorption to H2O molecules or hydroxyl species but weak adsorption to hydrogen species, which hinders the activation of the O─H bond and adversely affects both the Volmer step and subsequent proton supply. Therefore, it is imperative to develop an effective strategy for enhancing the Pt─N bond strength and optimizing the competitive adsorption of reactants at the Pt site to achieve a satisfactory balance between the activity and stability of Pt SACs.

To mitigate the low covalency of Pt─N bonds caused by their electronegativity difference, the introduction of an appropriate co-catalyst can balance the electron density between Pt and N. Rare earth (RE) elements, with their adjustable 4f levels, variable valence states, and weak electron affinity, are particularly well-suited for this purpose. Their strong ionization tendency enables them to act as electron buffers, facilitating efficient electron transfer between metal sites and achieving a more uniform electron density distribution.[\[13,14\]](#page-8-0) Inspired by these principles, we hypothesized that constructing Pt/RE dual-atom catalysts could enhance the covalency of Pt─N bonds by efficiently extracting

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. Schematic illustration. a) The Pt-N-C catalyst. b) The Pt/RE-N-C catalyst.

electrons from neighboring RE atoms. This approach would also create electron-deficient RE sites, optimizing the adsorption configuration of reactants and disrupting the linear scaling relationship between the adsorption energies of reaction intermediates. Such a design could effectively mitigate competitive adsorption among reactants at active Pt sites. It should be noted that the uniform dispersion of RE elements as single atoms on the N-C substrate is essential for achieving efficient coupling between Pt and adjacent RE sites. However, the direct formation of covalent bonds between Pt and RE single atoms through f-d orbitals is impeded by an insurmountable energy barrier.[15] In addition, given the large atomic radius and rapid thermal migration rate of RE elements, [16] effectively constructing uniformly dispersed RE sites around Pt atoms and fully utilizing the active Pt sites remains a challenge. Meanwhile, understanding the underlying cause of the synergistic effect between Pt and RE single atoms on active and stability enhancement is also an urgent matter.

Herein, we developed a class of N-bridged Pt/RE dual-atom catalysts (Pt/RE–N–C: Pt/Ce–N–C, Pt/Pr–N–C, Pt/Sm–N–C, Pt/Gd–N–C) to enhance alkaline HER catalysis in AEMWEs. Taking Pt/Ce–N–C as a representative, the introduction of the Ce-N<sub>6</sub> sites triggers strong charge redistribution through the formation of the Pt–N–Ce bridge, which finely modulates the electronic states of the active Pt sites. As a result, the HER activity of the Pt/Ce–N–C catalyst is significantly improved, demonstrating a remarkably low overpotential ( $\eta_{10} = 22$  mV vs 45 mV, Pt–N–C) and high mass activity (MA<sub>50</sub> = 7.16 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> vs 0.19 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, commercial Pt/C). The constructed Pt/Ce–N–C-based AEMWE demonstrates remarkable potential for practical appli-

cations with its ability to deliver a low cell voltage of 1.79 V and sustain electrolysis for 200 h at a current density of 1.0 A cm<sup>-2</sup>. In addition, the other Pr, Sm, Gd-based Pt/RE—N—C catalysts also demonstrate diverse degrees of enhancement in HER performance through a similar procedure. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations and experimental characterizations confirm that the construction of the Pt—N—Ce bridge results in the generation of electron-rich Pt sites, effectively reducing the bond length of Pt—N bonds, enhancing the formation energy of Pt vacancies, thereby improving the stability of Pt/Ce—N—C. Additionally, Ce functions as Lewis acid sites and exhibits favorable adsorption capacity for hydroxyl species, preventing the blockage of Pt sites by hydroxyl species and optimizing water dissociation to enhance HER activity (Figure 1b).

#### 2. Results and Discussion

# 2.1. Theoretical Perspective on the Inhibitory Effect of Introduced RE Single Atoms on Pt Dissolution

The feasibility of enhancing the activity and stability of Pt SACs through the incorporation of single-atom RE sites was investigated using DFT calculations. The optimized structural models of Ce, Pr, Sm, and Gd-based Pt/RE—N—C and Pt—N—C catalysts are illustrated in Figure S1 (Supporting Information). The charge difference density results demonstrate that the introduction of the RE sites significantly augments the electron density on the Pt side, which may help to mitigate the local charge imbalance surrounding the Pt—N bond and enhancing its covalency (Figure 2a).

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a). Differential charge density. b) COHP analysis and the corresponding ICOHP values. c) The Pt─N bond length. d) The Pt vacancy formation energy and the corresponding structures with Pt vacancy. e) Standard deviations in positions of Pt atoms in Pt─N─C, and Ce, Pr, Sm, Gd-based Pt/RE─N─C systems at 300 and 353 K, respectively. The energy barrier for breaking the H─OH bond in the Volmer step for f) Pt─N─C and g) Pt/Ce─N─C. Insets: the optimized atomic geometries of the intermediate state. The blue, gray, purple, and pink spheres represent N, C, Pt, and Ce atoms, respectively.

Based on these results, the crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) of the Pt/RE─N─C and Pt─N─C models were further calculated to understand the variation in Pt─N bond covalency. As shown in Figure 2b, compared to Pt─N─C, the presence of fewer antibonding states located below the Fermi level and larger bond values indicates enhanced electronic interactions between the 5d orbital of Pt and the 2p orbital of N in Pt/RE─N─C, resulting in a higher covalency in the Pt─N bond.[\[17\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, the shorter Pt─N bond length in Pt/RE─N─C provides further sub-

stantiation for above conclusion (Figure 2c; Table S1, Supporting Information).

Moreover, the formation energy (*E*vf) of Pt vacancies calculated to investigate the complexity of removing a Pt atom bonded to N in Pt/RE─N─C and Pt─N─C systems. Figure 2d and Table S2 (Supporting Information) demonstrate that the *E*vf value of Pt/RE─N─C is significantly higher than that of Pt─N─C, indicating that the presence of RE sites effectively hinders the dissolution of Pt.

16136829, 2025, 23, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.20252196 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for July 2025 (Page 12) and the policy of the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the policy of the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the policy of the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the policy of the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the policy of the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the policy of the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) and the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (Page 12) an

The stability of Pt/RE-N-C-based AEMWE is predicted up to a temperature of 80 °C through ab initio MD simulation. The canonically averaged standard deviation of the position of each atom *i* is calculated,  $\sigma_i = \sqrt{\langle (\vec{r_i} - \vec{r_i})^2 \rangle}$ , where  $\vec{r_i}$  represents the location of atom i at time t along the 6 ps MD trajectories.<sup>[18]</sup> The standard deviation with a smaller value indicates decreased atomic fluctuation.<sup>[19]</sup> When the temperature increases from 300 to 353 K, the standard deviation of Pt in Pt/RE-N-C is significantly smaller compared to that in Pt-N-C (Figure 2e; Table S3, Supporting Information). This finding suggests that the presence of the RE sites effectively hinders the migration or diffusion of Pt atoms on the N-doped carbon substrate. The above results confirm that the introduction of RE sites can effectively reduce the thermal vibration of Pt single atoms on the N-doped carbon substrate by enhancing the covalency of Pt-N bonds, thereby ensuring their stable operation at the actual operating temperature of AEMWEs.

In alkaline solutions, the intrinsic reactivity of Pt SACs is typically two to three orders of magnitude lower than in acidic solutions, primarily due to their limited capacity for H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation (Volmer step).[20,21] Therefore, we selected Pt/Ce-N-C as a representative to explore the effect of this strategy on improving Pt SACs in the Volmer step. The adsorption of H<sub>2</sub>O molecules is considered the initial stage in alkaline HER and was initially explored (Figure S2, Supporting Information). For Pt-N-C, H<sub>2</sub>O molecules are forced to attach to the Pt site, exhibiting an  $H_2O$  adsorption energy ( $\Delta E_{\rm H2O}$ ) value of -0.06 eV. However, the Ce sites of Pt/Ce–N–C exhibit the most negative  $\Delta E_{\rm H2O}$  value (-0.28 eV), indicating that H<sub>2</sub>O molecules are more inclined to be adsorbed at Ce sites, thus creating favorable conditions for the subsequent H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation. The distinction of adsorption configurations results in considerably different activation energy barriers ( $\Delta G_{H2O}$ ) of the H<sub>2</sub>O molecules. As illustrated in Figure 2f, Pt-N-C needs to overcome an energy barrier of up to 5.31 eV to break the O-H bond, indicating that the H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation reaction is exceedingly sluggish. Meanwhile, oxygen-containing intermediates are more likely to adsorb at the positively charged Pt site, resulting in the Pt site being blocked by hydroxyl species, which is not conducive to subsequent proton supply. In contrast, the  $\Delta G_{\rm H2O}$  decreases to 0.59 eV for Pt/Ce–N–C, suggesting that the introduction of Ce sites facilitates the activation of the O-H bond (Figure 2g). The insets of Figure 2g illustrate the dissociation pathway of a H2O molecule adsorbed on the Ce site of Pt/Ce-N-C. The O-H bond undergoes elongation from its initial equilibrium distance of 0.97 Å, reaching a transition state at 1.83 Å and ultimately extending to 3.52 Å in the final state (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The coupling of Pt and Ce sites induces local charge redistribution, resulting in the precise generation of Pt with Lewis base characteristics and Ce with Lewis acid characteristics. Consequently, the dissociated H<sub>ads</sub> tends to bind to the Pt site, while OH<sub>ads</sub> tends to bind to the adjacent Ce site, leading to a lower energy final state and subsequently reducing the energy barrier for H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation. The mechanism of alkaline HER for Pt/Ce-N-C is illustrated in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), H2O molecules and OHads are more prone to adsorption at the Ce site. The coupling of Pt and Ce sites facilitates the activation of H2O molecules and expedites their dissociation, while the intermediate H<sub>ads</sub> is adsorbed at adjacent Pt sites and subsequently generates H2 through the Tafel or Heyrovsky step easily. The construction of Pt-Ce dual-atom sites effectively avoids the issue of competitive adsorption between reactants and promotes H2O dissociation, thereby significantly enhancing alkaline HER activity.

#### 2.2. Synthesis and Structural Characteristics of Pt/Ce-N-C

To validate the prediction results of DFT calculations, the Pt/RE dual-atom catalysts were prepared on N-doped carbon substrates with hierarchical porosity. Figure \$5 (Supporting Information) shows the synthesis procedure of the Pt/RE-N-C catalysts. The synthesis of a series of isolated RE SACs (RE-N-C: Ce-N-C, Pr-N-C, Gd-N-C, Sm-N-C) on N-doped carbon substrates with hierarchical porosity is achieved through the synergistic coordination and confinement effects. Briefly, highly loaded precursors with a lamellar architecture were obtained in the aqueous phase owing to the stacking effect of RE3+ with 2methylimidazole and the coordination adsorption effect of carboxylates during self-assembly.[22,23] The precursors were then pyrolyzed at 900 °C under Ar, during which hierarchical porous structures were formed due to the evaporation of Zn at high temperatures and the modulation by short-chain carboxylates. RE-N-C was obtained after acid washing removed the impurities. Finally, the Phh<sub>3</sub>-coordinated Pt atoms were anchored on the RE-N-C substrate by a facile wet-impregnation process to obtain Pt/RE—N—C catalysts.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of Pt/Ce-N-C shows that two broad peaks were identified at 25° and 44°, corresponding to the (002) and (101) diffraction peaks of carbon, respectively (Figure S6, Supporting Information). However, no discernible diffraction peak associated with facets of metal nanoparticles or metal oxides was observed. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure 3a) reveal that Pt/Ce-N-C exhibits accordionlike multi-layer stacked structures. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and atomic force microscopy (AFM) (Figure 3b; Figure S7a, Supporting Information) display densely distributed and abundant mesoporous structures on the carbon substrate. The nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms of Pt/Ce—N—C (Figure S7b,c, Supporting Information) show high absorption capacity at  $P/P_0 < 0.1$  and a  $H_4$ -type hysteresis loop at  $0.5 < P/P_0 < 0.9$ , revealing that Pt/Ce-N-C has abundant mesopores. The specific surface areas of Pt/Ce-N-C calculated by BET is up to 777 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. Mesoporous structures act as "fluid channels" and play a key role in mass transfer. This structural feature ensures that sufficient reactants are supplied to the active site during the transient process, thus improving HER kinetics.<sup>[8]</sup> The high dispersion of Pt and Ce atoms and the formation of dual-atom sites are confirmed by aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM) and corresponding 3D atom-overlapping Gaussian-function fitting mappings (Figure 3c-e). Referring to the additional intensity profiles (Figure 3f), it can be observed that the Pt–Ce atom pairs in regions 1, 2, and 3 are  $\approx$ 0.33 nm. This proximity between adjacent Pt and Ce atoms creates favorable conditions for electron interactions. HAADF-STEM and the corresponding energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) mapping further confirm the uniform dispersion of Ce and Pt on the entire carbon support (Figure 3g). SEM, TEM, HAADF-STEM, and EDS

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Structural characterization. a) SEM and b) TEM images of Pt/Ce─N─C. c) AC HAADF-STEM and d) corresponding locally magnified images of Pt/Ce─N─C. e) 3D atom-overlapping Gaussian-function fitting mappings corresponding to site 4 in Figure d. f) Intensity distributions corresponding to profiles along the yellow circle site 1, site 2, and site 3 shown in Figure d. g) EDS mapping images of Pt/Ce─N─C.

mapping images of the other RE─N─C and Pt/RE─N─C catalysts are provided in Figures S8–S15, Supporting Information.

#### **2.3. Electronic Properties and Coordination Environment**

The electronic structure and chemical environment of the metal species were elucidated using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The C 1s XPS spectra of Pt/Ce─N─C reveal that the peaks at 284.59, 285.22, and 287.70 eV correspond to C═C, C─N, and C─O bonds respectively (Figure S16, Supporting Information),[\[24\]](#page-8-0) indicating the absence of chemical bonding between Pt and C atoms or between Ce and C atoms in Pt/Ce─N─C. The fitting results of the N 1s spectrum indicate that Pt/Ce─N─C contains up to 18.5% metal-N content, suggesting that the metal atoms are anchored onto the carbon substrate via N coordination (Figure S17 and Table S4, Supporting Information). It is noteworthy that the binding energy of Pt 4f in Pt/Ce─N─C is significantly shifted to a lower energy compared to that in Pt─N─C, indicating that the Pt species in Pt/Ce─N─C exhibits a higher electron density and a lower valence state than that in Pt─N─C (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Conversely, the binding energy of Ce 3d in Pt/Ce─N─C experiences a notable positive shift compared to that in Ce─N─C (Figure S19, Supporting Information). This indicates that electrons transfer from Ce to Pt facilitates the augmentation of electron density surrounding Pt, which is consistent with predictions from DFT theoretical simulations. The Zn 2p XPS spectra observed at 1021.51 and 1044.66 eV are ascribed to the Zn 2p3/2 and Zn 2p1/2 of Zn, respectively (Figure S20, Supporting Information). Since only 4 mmol of zinc acetate was used in the preparation process, and after calcination at 900 °C for 3 h, a large amount of Zn had been volatilized along with the formation of a large number of mesoporous pores, the content of residual zinc in the Pt/Ce─N─C catalyst was found to be only 0.36 wt.% according to the inductively coupled plasma

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. Fine structural characterizations. a) Normalized Ce  $L_3$ -edge XANES spectra. b) Normalized Pt  $L_3$ -edge XANES spectra. c) Fourier-transforms of  $k^3$ -weight Ce  $L_3$ -edge EXAFS spectra. e,f) Wavelet transforms of the EXAFS spectra for various samples. g–i) Fourier-transform EXAFS spectra and the corresponding curve-fitting results of the Ce—N—C, Pt—N—C, and Pt/Ce—N—C models. The blue, gray, pink, and purple spheres represent N, C, Ce, and Pt atoms, respectively.

mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis (Table S5, Supporting Information). According to the reported references, [25–28] when the zeolite imidazolate framework is used as the precursor and calcined at high-temperature, a small amount of zinc remaining in the sample cannot be avoided, but its effect on the catalytic performance can be negligible.

The coordination structure and chemical environment of the metal sites were further investigated using X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) spectroscopy. The X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra (**Figure 4a**) of the Ce  $L_3$ -edge reveal a higher intensity in the white line region for Pt/Ce—N—C compared to Ce—N—C, indicating an elevated oxidation state of Ce in Pt/Ce—N—C. This provides further confirmation that Ce acts as an electron donor. Furthermore, the XANES spectra (Figure 4b) of the Pt  $L_3$ -edge reveal that Pt/Ce—N—C exhibits a lower white line intensity compared to Pt—N—C, indicating an

increased electron density of Pt in Pt/Ce-N-C and thus a reduction in its chemical valence state. This alteration can be attributed to the electron supply from adjacent Ce sites. The k<sup>3</sup>-weighed Fourier-transform X-ray absorption fine structure spectra (FT-EXAFS) further provide valuable information on the bonding characteristics of the catalysts. The Ce L<sub>3</sub>-edge EXAFS spectra (Figure 4c) reveal that both Pt/Ce-N-C and Ce-N-C exhibit a single peak at ~2.05 Å, which can be attributed to the firstshell Ce-N path. Furthermore, neither the Pt/Ce-N-C nor the Ce-N-C exhibits any observation of the Ce-Ce pair at  $\approx 3.53$  Å or the Ce–O pair at ≈1.86 Å. Similarly, in the Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge EX-AFS spectra (Figure 4d), a prominent peak at ~1.87 Å is observed for both Pt/Ce-N-C and Pt-N-C, indicating the presence of a first-shell Pt-N path. Moreover, neither the Pt--Pt pair at ≈2.58 Å nor the Pt-O pair at ≈1.56 Å can be detected in either Pt/Ce-N-C or Pt-N-C.[29,30] These findings indicate the

SMQ

16136829, 2025, 23, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20252196 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://on

atomic dispersion of Pt and Ce species on the N-doped carbon substrate. Especially, the Ce-N or Pt-N peak in Pt/Ce-N-C is weakened or slightly shifted compared to that in Ce-N-C or Pt-N-C, indicating that the interaction between adjacent Ce and Pt atoms influences the coordination environment at the metal center. Moreover, the Wavelet transform EXAFS (WT-EXAFS) is employed for enhanced visualization of the coordination environment surrounding the metal atoms (Figure 4e,f; Figure S21). The presence of only low k-values of Pt-N and Ce-N bonds, in contrast to those of Pt foil, PtO<sub>2</sub>, and CeO<sub>2</sub>, confirms the absence of long-range ordered Pt-O, Pt-Pt, Ce-O, and Ce-Ce coordination. Meanwhile, the primary scattering path in WT-EXAFS for Pt/Ce-N-C exhibits a slight deviation from that of Ce-N-C and Pt-N-C in the k-space. The peak at 3.51  $\text{Å}^{-1}$  in Ce-N-C can be attributed to the presence of the Ce-N bond, whereas the signal corresponding to the Ce-N bond in Pt/Ce-N-C is shifted to 3.62  $\text{Å}^{-1}$  (Figure 4e). Additionally, the peak observed at 6.23  $\text{Å}^{-1}$ in Pt-N-C is consistent with that of the Pt-N bond, while the peak associated with the Pt-N bond in Pt/Ce-N-C shifts to 6.44 Å<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 4f). This further confirms that the Ce–N and Pt–N coordination in Pt/Ce-N-C is effectively regulated compared to Ce-N-C and Pt-N-C, which can be attributed to the coupling between Ce and Pt dual-atom sites. Additionally, the EXAFS fitting results (Figure 4g-i; Figures S22-S24, Supporting Information) reveal that each Ce atom in Ce-N-C is coordinated with six N atoms, while each Pt atom in Pt—N—C is coordinated with four N atoms. It should be noted that Ce and Pt atoms share two N atoms in Pt/Ce-N-C, as indicated by the corresponding fitting parameters presented in Table S6 (Supporting Information). Consequently, the metal site structure in Pt/Ce—N—C can be determined as N<sub>2</sub>-Pt-N<sub>2</sub>-Ce-N<sub>4</sub> (Pt-N-Ce), as illustrated in inset of Figure 4i. The structure of Ce-N-C and Pt-N-C metal sites can be determined as Ce-N<sub>6</sub> and Pt-N<sub>4</sub> (inset of Figure 4g,h), respectively. Additionally, the formation of Pt-N-Ce configuration influences the local Pt-N bonding characteristics, resulting in a slight contraction of the Pt-N bond length in Pt/Ce-N-C compared to that in Pt-N-C. This decrease in Pt-N bond length plays a crucial role in enhancing the stability of Pt SACs on the N-doped carbon substrate. The combined XPS and XAS analyses reveal that the introduction of Ce sites induces local electron rearrangement through the formation of Pt-N-Ce bridge, thereby optimizing the electronic state of Pt sites and increasing the electron density at the Pt sites. This facilitates the alleviation of charge imbalance around the Pt-N bonds and enhances their covalency, ultimately resulting in contraction of the Pt-N bond length, which is consistent with predictions from DFT theoretical simulations.

#### 2.4. Electrode Performance and Stability Analyses

The HER activity of the electrocatalysts was assessed in 1.0 M KOH using a conventional three-electrode setup to elucidate the impact of constructing Pt—Ce dual atomic sites on catalytic performance. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves in **Figure 5**a demonstrate that the overpotential of Pt/Ce—N—C at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  is merely 22 mV, significantly lower than that of Pt—N—C (45 mV), Ce—N—C (235 mV), and commercial Pt/C (37 mV). The Tafel plots reveal that Pt/Ce—N—C exhibits a significantly lower Tafel slope of only 33.8 mV dec $^{-1}$ 

compared to Pt-N-C, Ce-N-C, and commercial Pt/C, indicating its enhanced HER kinetics (Figure \$25, Supporting Information). The as-prepared Pt/Ce-N-C demonstrates exceptional HER activity, surpassing most noble metal-based catalysts reported, as evident from the comparison of overpotentials and Tafel slopes in Figure 5b and Table S7 (Supporting Information). In addition, Pt/Ce-N-C achieves a high mass activity (MA) of 7.16 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  at an overpotential of 50 mV, surpassing Pt-N-C (2.04 A mg<sub>Pt</sub>-1) by a factor of 3.5 and outperforming commercial Pt/C (0.19 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) by a factor of 37.7 (Figure 5c). Moreover, compared to Pt-N-C (2.03 s<sup>-1</sup>), commercial Pt/C (0.19 s<sup>-1</sup>) and the majority of other reported noble metal-based catalysts, Pt/Ce-N-C exhibits a significantly higher turnover frequency (TOF) value of 7.23 s<sup>-1</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV, indicating remarkable efficiency in hydrogen production (Figure 5d; Table S8, Supporting Information). Furthermore, when compared to Pt-N-C, Ce-N-C, and commercial Pt/C catalysts, the higher electrochemical doublelayer capacitance ( $C_{d1}$ ) value observed in Pt/Ce-N-C suggests a substantial presence of accessible active sites for the HER (Figures \$26 and \$27, Supporting Information). On the other hand, the lower charge transfer resistance in Pt/Ce-N-C suggests enhanced charge transfer kinetics (Figure \$28, Supporting Information).

The chronopotentiometry test was conducted at a current density of  $100\,\mathrm{mA}\,\mathrm{cm}^{-2}$  to verify the durability of the catalyst. Impressively, Pt/Ce-N-C demonstrates a long-lasting stability of 200 h without any noticeable increase in overpotential (Figure 5e), surpassing the stability of Pt-N-C (Figure S29a, Supporting Information). The stability mechanism of Pt/Ce-N-C was investigated by conducting time-dependent inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) to monitor the Pt content during the stability test. After 125 h, the dissolution content of Pt is  $\approx 0.15\%$ and subsequently reaches a stable state. Therefore, the addition of Ce sites to Pt-N-C is in line with theoretical predictions, as it enhances the formation energy of Pt vacancies, thereby effectively preventing the dissolution of Pt in alkaline HER. In contrast, the dissolution content of Pt is ≈0.20% for Pt-N-C after 50 h (Figure S29b, Supporting Information). The robust stability of Pt/Ce-N-C is further demonstrated by the almost overlapping LSV curves observed after 10 000 and 20 000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles (Figure 5f). SEM and TEM images demonstrate that after the stability test, the layered stacked carbon skeleton structure remains intact, with no significant damage to the pore structure (Figures \$30a,b, Supporting Information). This substantiates the structural stability of the layered stacked carbon substrate with abundant pores, which is crucial for facilitating rapid pumping of the reaction liquid to the active center and minimizing bubble adhesion on the catalyst surface, thereby enhancing mass transfer efficiency. Furthermore, the atomic-scale distribution of metal species after the stability test was further investigated using AC HAADF-STEM. The AC HAADF-STEM image reveals distinct bright spots of atomically dispersed atoms on the N-doped carbon substrate, with no significant aggregation observed (Figure S30c, Supporting Information). Additionally, EDS mapping further confirms the homogeneous distribution of Pt, Ce, N, and C throughout the structure (Figure \$30d, Supporting Information). Moreover, the valence and electronic structures of the Pt/Ce-N-C after the stability test were analyzed in depth

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. Electrochemical HER performance. a) LSV curves. b) Comparison of the overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and Tafel slope with the recently reported noble metal-based catalysts. c) LSV curves of Pt/Ce—N—C, Pt—N—C, and Pt/C normalized by actual noble metal Pt mass in 1.0 m KOH solution. d) TOF curves. e) Chronopotentiometry curves of Pt/Ce—N—C at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Inset: percentage of Pt dissolved from Pt/Ce—N—C after electrocatalysis for different reaction times. f) Cycling stability tests of Pt/Ce—N—C. g) Polarization curves of the AEMWE using the Pt/Ce—N—C and Pt/C. h) Comparison of cathode noble metal Pt loading and mass activity (at 1.8 V) between Pt/Ce—N—C and Pt/C. i) The durability test of Pt/Ce—N—C in AEMWE. Inset: the schematic diagram of AEMWE.

using XPS. The N 1s XPS spectrum exhibits the presence of a characteristic peak of the Pt/Ce-N bond, indicating the wellpreserved Pt/Ce-N structure on the N-doped carbon substrate (Figure S31, Supporting Information). Furthermore, it can be observed from Figure \$32 (Supporting Information) that the Pt 4f and Ce 3d XPS peaks in Pt/Ce—N—C show minimal alterations in their shapes and positions. This suggests that the valence state and chemical environment of Pt-Ce dual-atom catalysts remain remarkably stable. The aforementioned performance test results validate the pivotal role of charge modulation of Ce sites on Pt sites in enhancing the activity and stability of the catalysts. In addition, we employed an identical preparation method but substituted Ce3+ with Pr3+, Sm3+, or Gd3+. Remarkably, the introduction of single-atom Pr, Sm, and Gd sites also leads to a significant enhancement in both the activity and stability of Pt SACs, thereby establishing the universality of this strategy (Figure S33, Supporting Information).

Then, an AEMWE was constructed using Pt/Ce-N-C as the cathode and homemade NiFe layered double hydroxide (NiFe-LDH) as the anode, and its overall water splitting performance was assessed (Figure S34, Supporting Information). The Pt/Ce-N-C | NiFe-LDH can achieve a current density of 1.0 A cm<sup>-2</sup> at voltages as low as 1.79 V, outperforming commercial Pt/C || NiFe-LDH systems (Figure 5g). Notably, Pt/Ce-N-C exhibits  $\approx 31$  times MA (33.8 A mg<sub>pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) improvement at 1.8 V with <1/10 of Pt loading (32  $\mu g_{pt}$  cm<sup>-2</sup>) of commercial Pt/C (1.1 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> and 0.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 5h). Moreover, the Pt/Ce-N-C || NiFe-LDH system demonstrates exceptional stability, withstanding 200 h of continuous operation at a current density of 1.0 A cm<sup>-2</sup> while exhibiting a negligible decay (Figure 5i). The aforementioned merits validate the potential advantages of Pt/Ce-N-C electrocatalysts for large-scale water electrolysis in practical industrial applications (Table \$9, Supporting Information).

## <span id="page-8-0"></span>**3. Conclusion**

In summary, we successfully synthesized N-bridged Pt/Ce dualatom catalysts, achieving an optimal balance between the activity and stability of Pt SACs in alkaline HER. After the introduction of atomically distributed Ce sites to Pt─N─C, the formation of Pt─N─Ce bridge induced electron rearrangement in Pt, in such a way that electrons are enriched around the Pt atoms and delocalized near the Ce atoms. This facilitates Hads binding at the Pt site and promotes OHads binding at the adjacent Ce site, thereby enhancing H2O dissociation while preventing blockage of the Pt site by OHads. Moreover, the increase in electron density surrounding the Pt atoms mitigated the local charge imbalance of the Pt─N bond, reinforced the bond strength of the Pt─N bond, and impeded the dissolution of Pt atoms. Accordingly, the obtained Pt/Ce-N-C exhibited an ultralow overpotential and high mass activity. The applied AEMWE performed with an ultralow potential and long-term stability at an industrial-scale current density. Similar HER results are also observed for other Pr, Gd, Sm based Pt/RE─N─C catalysts. The intriguing aspect of this study lies in its provision of a paradigm for the design of high-performance Pt/RE─N─C electrocatalysts for alkaline HER catalysis, showcasing the synergistic effect between Pt and RE single atoms in enhancing catalytic activity. Moreover, it holds significant implications for guiding the development of energy conversion electrocatalysts based on Pt single atoms.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant 22166027, 22309093 and 22363007), Natural Science Foundation of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China (2021MS02015, 2021MS05018 and 2023QN02001) and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Education Department 2023 universityresearch key project (NJZZ23093).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

P.W. and Z.J.W. contributed equally to this work. P.W. conducted the experiments, performed data analysis, and drafted the manuscript. J.R.M., Y.H.Z., and J.X. assisted with data analysis. Z.J.W. and J.L.H. provided software support. J.F.J. supervised the project. Y.G.S. provided supervision and revised the manuscript.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

covalency, hydrogen evolution, Pt single atoms, Pt─N bond, rare earth single atoms

> Received: February 19, 2025 Revised: April 2, 2025 Published online: April 17, 2025

- [1] L. Wang, M. Ma, C. Zhang, H. Chang, Y. Zhang, L. Li, H. Chen, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202317220.
- [2] X. Lin, W. Hu, J. Xu, X. Liu, W. Jiang, X. Ma, D. He, Z. Wang, W. Li, L. Yang, H. Zhou, Y. Wu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 4883.
- [3] J. Cai, H. Zhang, L. Zhang, Y. Xiong, T. Ouyang, Z. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2303488.
- [4] T. Wang, X. Cao, H. Qin, L. Shang, S. Zheng, F. Fang, L. Jiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21237.
- [5] R. Zhang, Y. Li, X. Zhou, A. Yu, Q. Huang, T. Xu, L. Zhu, P. Peng, S. Song, L. Echegoyen, F. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2460.
- [6] Y. Qu, B. Chen, Z. Li, X. Duan, L. Wang, Y. Lin, T. Yuan, F. Zhou, Y. Hu, Z. Yang, C. Zhao, J. Wang, C. Zhao, Y. Hu, G. Wu, Q. Zhang, Q. Xu, B. Liu, P. Gao, R. You, W. Huang, L. Zheng, L. Gu, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 4505.
- [7] Q. Yang, H. Liu, P. Yuan, Y. Jia, L. Zhuang, H. Zhang, X. Yan, G. Liu, Y. Zhao, J. Liu, S. Wei, L. Song, Q. Wu, B. Ge, L. Zhang, K. Wang, X. Wang, C. R. Chang, X. Yao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2171.
- [8] P. Kuang, Y. Wang, B. Zhu, F. Xia, C. W. Tung, J. Wu, H. M. Chen, J. Yu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008599.
- [9] D. Liu, X. Li, S. Chen, H. Yan, C. Wang, C. Wu, Y. A. Haleem, S. Duan, J. Lu, B. Ge, P. M. Ajayan, Y. Luo, J. Jiang, L. Song, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 512.
- [10] T. Li, J. Liu, Y. Song, F. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 8450.
- [11] A. Wang, J. Li, T. Zhang, *Nat. Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *2*, 65.
- [12] C. A. Zhou, K. Ma, Z. Zhuang, M. Ran, G. Shu, C. Wang, L. Song, L. Zheng, H. Yue, D. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 21453.
- [13] J. Huang, H. Sheng, R. D. Ross, J. Han, X. Wang, B. Song, S. Jin, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3036.
- [14] T. Dai, X. Zhang, M. Sun, B. Huang, N. Zhang, P. Da, R. Yang, Z. He, W. Wang, P. Xi, C. H. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2102593.
- [15] M. Li, X. Wang, K. Liu, H. Sun, D. Sun, K. Huang, Y. Tang, W. Xing, H. Li, G. T. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2302462.
- [16] M. Li, X. Wang, K. Liu, Z. Y. Zhu, H. Y. Guo, M. Z. Li, H. Du, D. M. Sun, H. Li, K. Huang, Y. W. Tang, G. T. Fu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 01162.
- [17] A. Li, S. Kong, C. Guo, H. Ooka, K. Adachi, D. Hashizume, Q. Jiang, H. Han, J. Xiao, R. Nakamura, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 109.
- [18] J. He, W. Fang, R. Long, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2020**, *8*, 607.
- [19] J. He, W. Fang, R. Long, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2018**, *9*, 4834.
- [20] J. Su, Y. Yang, G. Xia, J. Chen, P. Jiang, Q. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14969.
- [21] Y. H. Wang, S. Zheng, W. M. Yang, R. Y. Zhou, Q. F. He, P. Radjenovic, J. C. Dong, S. Li, J. Zheng, Z. L. Yang, *Nature* **2021**, *600*, 81.
- [22] K. Li, S. Lin, Y. Li, Q. Zhuang, J. Gu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 3439.
- [23] J. Gao, Y. Hu, Y. Wang, X. Lin, K. Hu, X. Lin, G. Xie, X. Liu, K. M. Reddy, Q. Yuan, H. J. Qiu, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2104684.
- [24] L. Yin, S. Zhang, M. Sun, S. Wang, B. Huang, Y. Du, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2302485.
- [25] C. Zhou, J. Shi, Z. Dong, L. Zeng, Y. Chen, Y. Han, L. Li, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, F. Lv, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 6741.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [26] Y. Xu, J. Du, J. Jiang, Y. Miao, Z. Zhuang, Z. Liu, Y. Yan, R. Pan, J. Yang, M. Wang, S. Gu, L. Kang, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2025**, [https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202502227.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202502227)
- [27] S. Zhang, B. Sun, K. Liao, X. Wang, Z. Chen, J. Wang, W. Hu, X. Han, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, [https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202425640.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202425640)
- [28] Y. Chen, R. Ding, J. Li, J. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2022**, *301*, 120830.
- [29] L. Zeng, Z. Zhao, Q. Huang, C. Zhou, W. Chen, K. Wang, M. Li, F. Lin, H. Luo, Y. Gu, L. Li, S. Zhang, F. Lv, G. Lu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 21432.
- [30] Y. Zhao, P. Kumar, X. Tan, X. Lu, X. Zhu, J. Jiang, J. Pan, S. Xi, H. Yang, Z. Ma, T. Wan, D. Chu, W. Jiang, S. Smith, R. Amal, Z. Han, X. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2430.