---
source: Wolfschmidt 等 - 2010 - Enhanced Reactivity for Hydrogen Reactions at Pt Nanoislands on Au(111).pdf
tool: marker
duration: 14.636s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:33:33.013899Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/cphc.201000148

# Enhanced Reactivity for Hydrogen Reactions at Pt Nanoislands on Au(111)

Holger Wolfschmidt,[a] Daniel Weingarth,[c] and Ulrich Stimming\*[a, b]

Dedicated to Prof. Dr. R. Jrgen Behm on the occasion of his 60th birthday

We report high exchange current densities exceeding 1 A cm-2 at Pt nanostructures on Au(111) for hydrogen-related reactions. Such activity is found at Pt nanoparticles with a coverage of less than 10% of a monolayer on Au(111) and on single Pt particles deposited on Au(111). Potential pulse technique as well as micropolarization curves with overpotentials of 10 mV were used in the case of extended nanostructured surfaces to determine the activity. Single Pt particles were investigated in an in situ electrochemical scanning tunneling microscope setup using the STM tip as local sensor. The reactivity obtained on Pt nanostructured Au(111) towards hydrogen reactions were subsidized by single particle reactivity measurements. The specific activity of platinum is enhanced by more than a factor of 1000 as compared to a Pt(111) single crystal. Aspects that may explain this enhancement such as an involvement of the substrate, highly reactive defect sites and enhanced mass transport are discussed.

### 1. Introduction

In electrocatalysis it is important to characterize decisive parameters influencing the electrocatalytic properties of supported nanoparticles. Those can be particle size,[1–3] particle dispersion,[4, 5] density of low-coordinated surface atoms[6–8] and influence of the substrate material.[9–18] Fast transport due to spherical diffusion for small, isolated particles resulting from fine particle dispersion might also be an important parameter. In order to evaluate these parameters, nanostructured model surfaces were investigated.

Extended well defined surfaces such as single-crystal surfaces play an important role providing accurate reference systems for interface systems, especially in the case of electrochemistry. Due to the importance of hydrogen in energy technology, these reactions were intensively studied in the last decades on polycrystalline as well as different high-quality singlecrystal electrodes.[9, 19–37] Due to their high catalytic activity, Pt surfaces are of special interest as catalysts. Regarding hydrogen catalysis, Au as an inert material compared to Pt is a suitable support for investigations on Pt. Pt polycrystalline electrodes as well as defined single crystals were electrochemically investigated regarding orientation and electrocatalytic activity during the last decades.[20, 30–32, 38–48] Typical voltammograms of Pt(hkl) in 0.1m H2SO4 are shown in ref. [46]. The characteristic current peak at 0.19 V versus SCE in the voltammogram of Pt(111) in 0.1m H2SO4 is caused by a rearrangement in the adsorbed sulphate ion adlayer[48] and can be seen as a parameter for the quality of the single crystal. The ordered (3 - 7) R19.18 adlayer of these sulphate ions can be observed via STM which was demonstrated by Funtikov et al.[41, 47] and Braunschweig and Daum.[49] Comparing the Pt(111) in 0.1m HClO4 and in 0.1m H2SO4 shows that there are no differences in cyclic voltammograms below 0.1 V versus SCE, indicating a weak influence of anions in this region. Details for Pt(100) and Pt(110) surfaces can be found elsewhere .[38–40, 42–45] Hydrogen reactions were intensively investigated on polycrystalline Pt as well as on single-crystal surfaces. Markovic et al.[22, 23] and Barber et al.[21, 24] found that the reactivity of different Pt(hkl) surfaces towards hydrogen reactions is strongly influenced by surface orientation. It was clearly shown that in alkaline as well as acidic electrolytes the reactivity increases in the following order: (111)<(100)<(110) and that the activation energy decreases in the sequence DH(111)>DH(100)>DH(110). The findings are in line with the activation energies obtained from Arrhenius plots[23, 26] showing the largest value of 18 kJmol-<sup>1</sup> for Pt(111) and the smallest value of 9.5 kJmol-<sup>1</sup> for the Pt(110) single-crystal surface. Arrhenius plots were also used to evaluate the hydrogen evolution in frozen aqueous electrolytes on different polycrystalline metal electrodes.[35, 37] Frese et al.[35] investigated the HER on polycrystalline Pt electrodes in liquid and in frozen electrolyte in the temperature range between 293 K and 176 K. In the liquid as well as in the solid phase the Volmer–Tafel mechanism occurs with the Tafel reaction as ratedetermining reaction. Extracting an Arrhenius from ref. [35], a linear behaviour is shown before and after the melting point of the electrolyte at around 227 K. The activation energies are

- [a] H. Wolfschmidt, Prof. Dr. U. Stimming Department of Physics E19 Technische Universitt Mnchen 85748 Garching (Germany) Fax: (+49) 89 289 12530 E-mail: stimming@ph.tum.de
- [b] Prof. Dr. U. Stimming Division I, ZAE Bayern 85748 Garching (Germany)
- [c] D. Weingarth General Energy Research Department (ENE) Paul Scherrer Institut, 5232 Villingen PSI (Switzerland)

in the range of 15 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup> for the liquid electrolyte and in the range of 27 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup> in the frozen electrolyte, clearly seen in the change of the slope at the melting point. The value obtained in the liquid electrolyte for the investigated polycrystalline electrode is comparable to the average of the values obtained on single crystals in ref. [23,26]. Markovic et al. [22] followed an approach by investigating the hydrogen reactions at low temperatures between 274 K and 333 K to obtain kinetic rates at slow reaction conditions using a rotating disc electrode setup. In this approach, the exchange current density was determined using micropolarization curves applying only small overpotentials in the range of  $\pm\,10\,\text{mV}$  versus the equilibrium potential and a value of  $j_0$  of approx. 1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> was obtained. In addition to micropolarization curves, extrapolation in the Tafel plot to overpotentials equal to zero was done and the results are in good agreement. In the literature, the values of  $i_0$  show a large scatter between less than 1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and several 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> obtained with different techniques such as RDE, SECM, microelectrodes and ultra-low Pt loadings.  $^{[4,5,22,31,50-55]}$  Extracting a reliable value for  $j_0$  from all these different references is still a challenge.

Cyclic voltammograms for Au(111), Au(100) and Au(110) surfaces in 0.1 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> are shown in ref. [46]. Especially the investigations in sulphuric acid with the typical current peaks in the voltammograms are an indicator for the single-crystal quality seen by evaluating the peaks attached to the lifting of reconstruction and forming of an ordered  $(\sqrt{3} \times \sqrt{7})$  R19.1° sulphate layer<sup>[46,56-58]</sup> at 0.78 V versus SCE. Surface reconstruction of Au(111) and Au(100) is lifted at potentials positive of 0.34 V versus SCE due to the adsorption of sulphate ions. [59] This is also an indicator for high-quality crystal surfaces. This leads to the unreconstructed  $(1 \times 1)$  surface. Gold oxide formation starts at potentials higher than 1 V versus SCE. Defects as well as small terraces will inhibit the well pronounced peaks at 0.34 V and 0.78 V versus SCE. Details on investigations on other lowindex Au single-crystal surfaces can be obtained elsewhere. [59-66] The investigations on Au single crystals towards HER are rare<sup>[25,27,28,67]</sup> and show a weak dependence on crystallographic orientation in early studies. Perez et al. [25] investigated the hydrogen evolution in different Au(hkl) single crystal electrodes. To avoid a strong influence of adsorbing ions and to correlate the structure-sensitive reactivity with the different single-crystal electrodes, perchloric acid was used as electrolyte. By using a rotating-disc setup with hanging meniscus, concentration gradients of hydrogen at the interface were avoided. Similar results to the abovementioned results on Pt crystal surfaces were obtained. Comparable to Pt, the different Au(hkl) surfaces are also structure sensitive. It was found that hydrogen evolution is obviously different on the three Au(111), Au(100) and Au(110) surfaces. With this result it was proven that the electrocatalytic activity is definitely dependent on the crystallographic orientation of Au single-crystal surfaces in the following sequence: Au(111) > Au(100) > Au(110). It was suggested that HER activity increases with the atomic density of the surface following the trend of the increasing work function for the electron. [29] While the activity for hydrogen evolution is also dependent on the crystallographic orientation seen in the case of Pt, the measured net current densities are several orders of magnitude lower for Au, making Au single crystals an excellent support for the active Pt for hydrogen reactions. Recent studies by theoretical [68-71] and experimental [72] groups also show the possibility that highly defective Au surfaces are active towards hydrogen adsorption and CO oxidation. The effect, however, is not as high as compared to Pt on Au in our studies presented herein.

Much experimental as well as theoretical work has been performed to get an understanding of the hydrogen reaction mechanism on the well defined catalyst surfaces reviewed above. A special case occurs if catalytic active material such as Pt and Pd are deposited onto foreign metal supports. Due to lattice strain of the Pt or Pd overlayer the reactivity towards the hydrogen reactions can be different compared to the bulk material. Adsorption and desorption processes of hydrogen were investigated on different single-crystal surfaces by the group of Kolb.[12,33,73] Various indicators were found that underline the importance of Pd overlayer thickness and selection of support. Pd thickness as well as support influence the adsorption and desorption behaviour and the electrocatalytic activity. The experimental finding was supported by theoretical work from the groups of Nørskov, [74-76] Groß [10,11] and Schmickler. [77-82] The experimental results for HER and HOR on monoatomically high Pd nanoislands deposited on Au(111) indicate a specific electrochemical activity that increases with decreasing coverage. [9,12,15,34] A similar increase in specific activity was shown for the HER as well as for the HOR for Pt nanostructured Au(111) surfaces. [34] Although the net current densities for HOR are one order of magnitude lower than those of HER, there is an enhancement of specific current density of nearly two orders of magnitude higher for both reactions when lowering the amount of Pt. The lower concentration of reactants and thus a diffusion limitation in the case of HOR can affect this behaviour. The enhancement is attributed to several possible effects. For decreasing Pd monolayers down to one monolayer a strain effect of the Pd overlayer according to the Nørskov model has to be considered. The strong enhancement for the submonolayers is explained by a hydrogen spill-over from the Pd particle onto the Au(111) support. Here, defect sites and steps dso not seem to have a big impact on the electrocatalytic activity. Similar results were also obtained by Kibler<sup>[9,12]</sup> for the HER. In contrast to investigations in refs. [15,34], the exchange current densities and not the specific current densities were investigated and an enhancement of a factor of about 4 was found comparing 1 ML with 0.07 ML Pd on Au(111). The importance of the free energy of hydrogen adsorption was underlined, although defect sites and steps also often play an important role. The group of Baltruschat<sup>[6,7,83]</sup> also performed several Pdon-Au(111) experiments. It was suggested that the main part of the electrocatalytic activity is caused by the steps. Pd deposited on Au(111) terraces is not very active and thus has no influence on the enhanced catalytic activity. According to Hernandez and Baltruschat, [6,7] a model based on a spill-over concept of hydrogen from Pd to the Au(111) support does not seem to be reasonable. Markovic and Ross<sup>[26]</sup> studied the system Pd on Pt(111). Here, an improvement of the catalytic

activity compared to pure Pt(111) was found as well. Decorating the Pt(111) surface with Pd enhances the performance towards the HER and HOR. Thickness was not varied, but the positive effect of Pd was also demonstrated in this case. However, a complete understanding that describes the overall effect was not found until now. A suitable value to compare the activity of the different systems is the exchange current density j0,which describes the electrocatalytic activity of the surface and is dependent on the surface structure as well as the concentration of educts and products.

Conway and Bockris[84] reported a correlation of the exchange current density j<sup>0</sup> to the electronic work function f, which defines the binding energy between electrons near the Fermi level and the material. For HER it was also shown that the logarithm of j<sup>0</sup> increases as the d character of the material increases. The latter was explained by the fact that as the d character increases, more electrons have paired spins and hence they require more energy to extract them, causing DH of adsorbed hydrogen atoms to decrease. Parsons[85] studied the relationship between exchange current density and the ability of the electrode to adsorb atomic hydrogen in terms of the standard free energy DGH. His theoretical studies showed that logj<sup>0</sup> reaches a maximum when DGH0. Metals such as Pt, Pd, Rh, and Ir that adsorb hydrogen moderately have high values of j0. Trasatti[86] obtained two fairly parallel lines if the exchange current density j<sup>0</sup> is plotted versus the work function. As mentioned previously, the rate and mechanism of HER depends on the bond strength between the metal and the hydrogen atom (M-H). A pass through a maximum is suggested and a similar volcano-shaped curve was reported by Krishtalik and Delahay.[87] As shown in Figure 1, Pt is close to the top of the volcano curve where the Pt-H bond is neither too strong nor too weak. A similar study was done by Nørskov et al.[16, 18] Density functional theory (DFT) calculations demonstrated a volcano-type behavior of hydrogen chemisorption energies with respect to the exchange current density for hydrogen evolution. Pt was again found to be a better catalyst than other metals for HER primarily because the hydrogen evolution reaction on Pt is thermoneutral at the equilibrium potential. The findings of that work can be used to predict the behaviour of other bimetallic systems for HER as well as HOR. The analy-

Figure 1. Volcano plot for the HER for various pure metals and metal overlayers from ref. [18]. Reprinted with permission.

sis was reported as a new method to obtain H adsorption free energies and understand trends for different systems that are of electrochemical interest.

While the reactivity of planar surfaces described above has been well investigated, there are many new aspects involved in the reactivity of nanoparticle surfaces. Meier et al.[88] used a novel method to measure nanoscale local reactivity at single Pd particles on Au(111) electrode surfaces. The STM tip, etched from a platinum–iridium wire, was loaded ex situ with Pd and transferred to a Pd-free electrochemical STM cell. Single Pd particles were created directly with the Pd tip via contact between tip and substrate, no excess Pd was deposited onto the Au surface electrochemically from solution. In the next step the STM tip electrode was used as a local sensor to detect the reaction products from the deposited particles. It was demonstrated that with decreasing size of single Pd nanoparticles on Au(111) from 200 nm to 6 nm the electrochemical activity with respect to the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is increased by more than two orders of magnitude.[89] This result is comparable to the significantly increased catalytic activity for HER that was found on nanostructured Au(111) electrode surfaces with electrodeposited Pd sub-monolayers in the work of Kibler,[9] Pandelov and Stimming[15] and Wolfschmidt et al.[34] Hernandez and Baltruschat[6, 7] also reported enhanced activity of Pd-step-decorated Au(332) surfaces. The experimental results from all these groups were ascribed to several effects comparable to extended surfaces and can be summarized as follows:

- 1) A strain effect in the lattice[75, 90] of the deposited Pd-nanoislands induced by the Au(111) substrate;[9, 15]
- 2) Enhanced activity of low-coordinated atoms such as those at step sites;[6–8]
- 3) Direct involvement of the gold surface in the mechanism of HER on nanostructured Pd/Au(111) electrode surfaces;[14]
- 4) Enhanced mass transport[4, 5, 50, 91] due to low coverages and single-particle approach.

Pd nanoparticles, either tip-induced single particles or electrochemically deposited particles on Au(111) surfaces exhibit activities higher than those observed on extended metal surfaces.[6, 7, 9, 15, 19, 34, 89] Since platinum is among the most important electrocatalysts, we have performed experiments where Pt is electrochemically deposited as flat islands on Au(111) single crystals and as single particles by using the tip of an electrochemical scanning tunneling microscope (EC–STM) on Au(111). In comparison to Pd, Pt has almost the highest activity of all metals for hydrogen reactions. The reactivity was investigated using two different approaches for the nanostructured Au(111) electrodes, namely potentiostatic pulse techniques and cyclic voltammetry. The coverage of active Pt on Au(111) was varied in the range between 0.005 ML and 7.8 ML. The single Pt particles with different heights between one atomic layer and five atomic layers were investigated using an EC–STM setup with the tip as a local sensor. Our emphasis was on understanding the influence of Pt coverage for the large electrodes and the influence of Pt particle height for the single particles on the electrocatalytic activity with respect to HER and hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR). Although both methods, namely investigating nanostructured single crystals as well as single particles, have different approaches, consistent results were obtained and the same trend concerning the exchange current density for decreasing coverages was found.

## 2. Results

The Pt/Au(111) nanostructured surfaces were prepared as described in the experimental section and coverages were varied in the range of 0.0005 ML to 7.8 ML Pt on Au(111). Potential step experiments as well as micropolarization curves in the range of 10 mV near the equilibrium potential were used to investigate the reactivity reflected in the exchange current density. In Figure 2, the exchange current density is plotted

Figure 2. Exchange current density for hydrogen reactions vs Pt coverage on Au(111). Values were obtained from potentiostatic pulses (\*) and micropolarization curves (&).

versus the coverage of Pt on Au(111). Both measurement techniques, namely potential pulse methods (\* in Figure 2) and micropolarization curves (& in Figure 2) show the same exchange current density j<sup>0</sup> versus coverage of platinum on Au(111). The x- and y-axes are logarithmically scaled to deal with the range variations in coverage and in exchange current density. As reference, a Pt(111) single crystal was investigated and showed behaviour in line with that recorded in literature.[21–24, 26] For Pt monolayers on Au(111) the reactivity is already larger than compared to Pt(111). A slight increase in exchange current density with decreasing monolayer thickness from 7.8 ML to 0.1 ML of noble metal is shown. The increase in exchange current density rapidly increases, however, at coverages lower than about 10% of a monolayer. An increase of more than two orders of magnitude for the hydrogen reactions was found in this region of the low coverages. Especially the values for coverages below 10% are supported by the abovementioned two different techniques namely potentiostatic pulse and micropolarization curves.

It is interesting to compare these results with single Pt particles. Figure 3 shows the dependence of the exchange current density versus the particle height, given in atomic layers (AL).

Figure 3. Exchange current density vs particle height of single Pt particles on Au(111).

Particles with a height between one and five atomic layers were investigated and the reactivity measurements indicate a strong increase with decreasing thickness of the particle from five AL down to only one AL height. The exchange current densities were determined as described above and values between 3 A cm-<sup>2</sup> and more than 40 A cm-<sup>2</sup> were found. The linear behaviour in a logarithmic plot indicates an exponential correlation between particle height and exchange current density (see Figure 3). This was established in a similar fashion for the Pd/Au(111) system.[89]

Platinum on the extended Au(111) surfaces shown above already indicate an increase in the exchange current density to several hundred mA cm-<sup>2</sup> with decreasing coverage down to a coverage of 0.0005 ML. The values of the local reactivity measurements show similar behaviour. The exchange current density strongly increases with decreasing particle height up to several tens of A cm-2 . A detailed comparison between extended Pt nanostructred Au(111) surfaces, single Pt particle on Au(111) and theoretical models is in preparation.[92]

### 3. Discussion

The reactivity of Au(111) surfaces covered with Pt and single Pt particles deposited on Au(111) show the following effects:

- 1) With decreasing coverage of Pt on Au(111), the exchange current density increases with decreasing layer thickness in the range between 7.8 ML down to 0.1 ML;
- 2) The exchange current density strongly increases with for coverages of less than 10% of Pt on Au(111);
- 3) For coverages below 0.0025 ML Pt on Au(111) an exchange current density of several 100 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> can be observed;
- 4) The exchange current density of single Pt particles on Au(111) increases with decreasing particle height;
- 5) The absolute values for exchange current density of single Pt particles is in the range of several A cm-<sup>2</sup> and several 10 A cm-2 , depending on particle height.

This strong increase in reactivity of the Pt nanoislands on Au(111) may be discussed in the following way considering several aspects enhancing catalytic activity:

- 1) The lattice of the Pt nanoislands experiences a strain effect due to the Au(111) substrate depending on the layer thickness, which changes the binding energy to the adsorbed hydrogen.[15, 75, 88–90] This could explain the higher activity of a monolayer of Pt compared to multilayers on Au(111) and of Pt single particles with only one atomic layer height. Also a modified bond energy to hydrogen for submonolayers was reported.[93] A spill-over concept should be taken into account considering the hydrogen binding on Pt as well as the Au support.[14]
- 2) A high number of reactive steps and defects may cause an increased specific activity[6, 7] for large Pt nanostructured surfaces as well as single Pt particles on Au(111).
- 3) Enhanced mass transport for small particles[50, 91] due to hemispherical diffusion as compared to planar diffusion on extended surfaces may lead to higher current densities for very small coverages and for single Pt particles on an extended single crystal.

Following from (1) directly above, assuming a pseudomorphic Pt adlayer on Au(111) the lattice of the Pt ad-layer on Au(111) is strained by approximately 4%. According to the Nørskov model[74, 75, 90] a shift of the center of the d band to higher energies results. This leads to a higher H adsorption energy on Pt/Au(111) as compared to bulk Pt. Nevertheless, the H desorption next to the H adsorption should be taken into account as well. Santos and Schmickler[94] calculated potential energy surfaces of the bond length between two hydrogen atoms and determined the saddle point of the reaction pathway. This leads to the assumption that desorption of hydrogen is an important step. In addition, a model based on a spill-over effect can be considered, first described by Eikerling et al.[14] Similar effects are not observed for oxygen reduction for comparable electrodes of Pt/Au(111); as expected the current for this reaction is proportional to the surface area of Pt,[34] which is not observed for to the hydrogen reactions. Kinetic data for a comparable coverage of Pt on HOPG yield specific current densities lower by orders of magnitude, emphasizing the importance of the substrate.[95] This is supported by measurements of Pd particles on Cu(111)[96] where no enhancement of reactivity was found. Copper has a smaller lattice constant than Pd and therefore there is a compression effect instead, lowering the center of the Pt d band.

Following from (2) directly above, it was suggested from experiments on stepped Pt surfaces by Lçffler et al.[97] that the high electrocatalytic reactivity is caused by step sites. Results of Pd mono- and sublayers on different vicinally stepped gold crystals investigated by Hernandez and Baltruschat[6, 7] underline the importance of steps and defect sites for HER activity. However, such dependence on the number of step sites was not found by Meier et al.[89] or Pandelov and Stimming.[15]

The concequence of (3) directly above is that enhanced mass transport based on spherical diffusion in case of nanoparticles as compared to planar diffusion on extended surfaces may be considered as an explanation, too. Such enhanced mass transport was reported by Chen and Kucernak using microelectrodes[50] and analyzed by Chialvo et al.[91] Gasteiger et al.[4] and Neyerlin et al.[5] also discussed enhanced diffusion in case of high particle dispersions and small particle sizes. Although this effect may play a role, it cannot be the only reason because Pt sub-monolayers on HOPG yield considerably lower specific currents as compared to Au(111) as a substrate.[95]

An explanation of the observed enhancement may be caused by any of the above factors or a combination of them. Further experiments will have to clarify their relative importance. The volcano curve for hydrogen evolution correlates the hydrogen–metal bond strength with the exchange current density[86] and its maximum lies close to the value for HER on Pt electrodes which is about 1 mA cm-2 . Greeley et al.[18] and Nørskov et al.[16] complemented this volcano curve using computational screening with metal overlayers and derived current densities that are about one order of magnitude higher in comparison to the pure metal. Other reports have stated that the exchange current density j<sup>0</sup> for HER and HOR exceeds 25 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> for Pt/C[4] or is even in the range of 200– 600 mA cm-2 . [5] Previously reported values of j0=0.45– 0.98 mA cm-2[98] or 1.7–3.0 mA cm-2[30] thus seem too low.

### 4. Conclusions

High exchange current densities of up to several 100 mA cm-2 at Pt nanostructures on Au(111) and of up to several 10 A cm-2 at single Pt particles for hydrogen-related reactions were found. This shows an enhancement in specific electrocatalytic activity of platinum of more than two orders of magnitude in comparison to a Pt(111) single crystal. Our results show that the exchange current follows the same trend as reported in refs. [4, 5] with values larger than 1 A cm-2 . Comparing this with the volcano, for example in ref. [18], indicates that either the volcano approach may need some modification for nanostructured surfaces or other, possibly experimental, effects yielded too low current densities in the past.

### Experimental Section

Extended Pt Nanostructured Au(111) Surfaces: The electrochemical measurements were carried out with a potentiostat/galvanostat (HEKA PG 310, EC-Tec BP600, Autolab PGStat 30) on Au(111) substrates (Schroer GmbH). Mercury/Mercury sulfate electrodes (Schott B3610, 0.1m H2SO4) were used as reference electrodes. The pre-treatment of the glassware, counterelectrodes and surfaces was performed as described in ref. [34]. Electrochemical platinum deposition was performed in 1m HClO4 made from 70% HClO4 (Merck, Suprapur) and ultrapure water (Millipore Milli-Q, 18.2 MWcm, 3 ppm TOC) containing 0.5 mmK2PtCl4 (Aldrich, 99.995%) or 0.5 mmK2PtCl6 (Alfa Aesar, 99.9%). For a defined deposition of Pt islands, a potential pulse deposition procedure was used. Starting from an initial potential of 860 mV vs NHE a potential of 660 mV vs NHE was applied, at which Pt is electrodeposited on Au(111). The amount of Pt was varied by varying the deposition times. Pt amounts were determined from the Faradayic charge, hydrogen adsorption and electrooxidation of adsorbed CO. A charge of 210 mC cm-<sup>2</sup> for the hydrogen adsorption and 280 mC cm-<sup>2</sup> for CO oxidation for one monolayer (ML) was used. The electrochemical methods agree well with the coverage determined via STM (Veeco Multimode, NanoScope 3D, E-Scanner).[34] It was shown that the sub-monolayers of Pt on Au(111) form monoatomically high nanoislands (Figure 4). The HER and HOR on Pt/Au(111) surfaces were investigated in hydrogen-saturated 1m HClO4 with potentio-

Figure 4. Left: Typical Au(111) surfaces, 500 nm - 500 nm and 50 nm - 50 nm, recorded in 0.1m HClO4, UWE=0 mV vs NHE, Ubias=350 mV, Itun=1 nA. Inset: atomic resolution, air mode, Ubias=30 mV, Itun=2 nA. Right: Pt-decorated Au(111) surfaces: 500 nm - 500 nm, 0.047 ML coverage; 500 nm - 500 nm, 0.67 ML coverage, air mode, Ubias=100 mV, Itun=1 nA.

static pulses of less than 100 ms length, a sampling rate of up to 100 kHz and micropolarization curves with overpotentials in the range of 10 mV versus the equilibrium potential with a sweep rate of 100 mV s-1 . In the case of the potentiostatic pulses, an extrapolation of the first 10 milliseconds to t=0 was used to obtain the kinetic current density as the intercept of the ordinate with the linear fit.[99] The exchange current density was obtained from the evaluation of the Tafel plots for the pulse measurements and from a linearization of the Bulter–Volmer equation from the micropolarization curves. The IR drop was determined using short galvanostatic pulses (t<1 ms) and the date corrected concerning the IR drop. The evaluation of currents and coverages had an accuracy of approx. 10%.

Single Pt Particles: Measurements were performed using Au(111) substrates as well as Au(111) single crystals (see Figure 4). The crystal was cleaned by an oxidation process, doing cyclic voltammetry measurements up to 1.8 V vs NHE in 1m H2SO4, then left in hydrochloric acid (30%, Merck, suprapur, Germany) for about 30 seconds to remove the oxidized material and contaminations. After the crystal was rinsed with Milli-Q water, an annealing process with the Bunsen burner followed and the crystal was cooled down in argon atmosphere. EC–STM images shown in Figure 4 illustrate the high quality of the (111) surfaces with terraces larger than 200 nm in width and a resolved herringbone structure.[65]

STM tips were made out of gold. The etching procedure was done with a lamella technique which is well known.[47] Here a concentrated hydrocloric acid was used as electrolyte, together with a DC voltage of 1.65 V. The setup was cleaned after every etching procedure to be sure to have reproducible sharp tips. Every freshly etched tip was cleaned in hot Milli-Q water and then insulated with apiezon wax at a temperature of about 2008C. Typically the free apex diameter was in the range of 30–40 nm obtained with an SEM (Hitachi S 2000). In order to create platinum nanoclusters, these gold tips were loaded with platinum. Therefore a solution containing 1m HClO4+0.5 mmK2PtCl6 was used. Under potential control at about 900 mV vs NHE the tip was dipped into the electrolyte to perform potential pulse depositions of platinum. The SEM images Figure 5 shows a tip to which two pulses with 60 seconds of length and potential of 500 mV vs NHE were applied. The platinum loading is clearly visible in the SEM and platinum islands 50 nm in diameter were produced compared to a bare Au tip.

Figure 5. Left: Au tip. Right: Pt-loaded Au tip.

The STM setup consists of a Nanoscope IIIa controller, a MI STM base and an external bi-potentiostat from EC-Tec. A modified, miniaturized four-electrode compartment had to be set up for the EC– STM system. Since the fourth electrode is represented by the tip, the main cell consists of the working electrode and a self-made Teflon ring with an inner diameter of 4 mm and an outer diameter of 8 mm. A gold/gold oxide reference electrode was prepared in 1m H2SO4 at a potential of +12 V for 3 min. The electrode was stable for several hours at about 1230 mV vs NHE. The counterelectrode formed out of a 0.5 mm thick gold wire was flame-annealed before it was used in the setup. The Teflon ring is fixed upon the gold crystal and electrolyte can be filled in under potential control. All measurements were performed in 0.1m HClO4. The working electrode was set to 0 V vs NHE and the tip to 350 mV vs NHE, resulting in a bias of 350 mV. A tunneling curent of 1 nA was set. Platinum nanostructures on Au(111) were prepared using the jump-to-contact technique.[88, 89, 100–102] On a suitable terrace on the Au(111) crystal the EC–STM feedback is switched off and the tip is moved between 1.5 nm and 2 nm towards the surface, until a jump-to-contact occurs and a Pt particle is left on the surface. Figure 6shows a particle with different heights, where the difference

Figure 6. Left: Particle created in 0.1m HClO4. The difference between two monolayers is visible. UWe=0 mV vs NHE, Utip=350 mV vs NHE, Itun=1 nA. Right: Cross section of deposited particle.

between two monolayers can be seen. A part one monolayer high as well as a part two monolayers high is marked. The part that is one monolayer high is larger und thus the determining part for the activity of the single particle. The reconstruction of the Au(111) support is also clearly visible.

The basic idea of local reactivity measurements is to use the EC– STM tip as a local sensor. The reaction products of an active species on the working electrode are reversibly converted at the tip into a Faradayic current. Here is the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), given by Equation (1):

$$2 H^+ + 2 e^- \rightarrow H_2$$
 (1)

at the particle is investigated, whereas the reverse reaction hydrogen oxidation (HOR), given by Equation (2):

$$H_2 \rightarrow 2 H^+ + 2 e^-$$
 (2)

is detected with the STM tip, schematically shown in Figure 7. A sequence of steps has to be done in order to perform local reactivity measurements. The circled numbers indicate the steps in the schematics on the left side (see Figure 8).

1) The tip is placed directly over the bare gold surface or a created particle to perform the reactivity measurement. Therefore, the STM feedback is turned off and the tip is retracted by 25 nm. The tip current now only consists of the Faradayic current and no tunnelling current or overlapping double layers can interfere (1–2).

Figure 7. Schematics of the method used. The hydrogen evolved at the catalyst particle is oxidized and thus detected with the STM tip.

Figure 8. Left: Potential distribution at the tip (black) and the working electrode (red) together with the tip distance in nm (green) during the reactivity measurements. Right: Typical current transient of local reactivity measurements, showing reactivity of bare gold (IAu), after creation of a Pt cluster (IPt on Au) and the corrected current evolved by the Pt particle (IPt).

- 2) The potential of the working electrode is varied to evolve hydrogen at the particle, which is then recorded as hydrogen oxidation current at the tip. A negative potential pulse lasting one second is applied to the working electrode, while the tip potential is kept constant at 350 mV vs NHE and the tip current is recorded.
- 3) After the potential pulse, the tip stays retracted for another 35 seconds to record the complete hydrogen oxidation current.
- 4) Again the tip approaches the surface and another morphology image of the cluster is recorded. Then the tip is set once more above the cluster and the procedure starts again at (1) with a different overpotential for the hydrogen evolution reaction.

During the whole measurement procedure the tip potential is kept constant at 350 mV vs NHE. A typical graph of the resulting current transients, all recorded with an oscilloscope, is shown in Figure 8 on the right side. The middle curve indicates the measurements on a bare gold surface (IAu), whereas the upper curve was recorded on top of a cluster (IPt on Au) that was created. The lower curve shows the difference of the upper and middle curve, which indicates the hydrogen oxidation current arising from the particle IPt. The hydrogen oxidation current is in first-order proportionality to the concentration of hydrogen in solution and therefore a rate for the activity of the platinum particle on the gold surface. The evaluation procedure of the recorded current transients is as follows: Figure 9

Figure 9. Corrected current (IPt, see Figure 6) transient of the hydrogen oxidation at the tip evolved at a cluster with diameter of 3 nm and height of 2 nm.

shows the current from the single Pt particle IPt (sum current minus background, IPt on Au-IAu) and the area that is integrated to gain the charge that was transposed by hydrogen oxidation at the tip. This charge, typically at values of several 100 pA, then is divided by the pulse time, here one second, to get an average current through the particle. The current density j is derived dividing the integrated corrected current values by the surface of the cluster, which were in the range between 20 and 200 nm2 obtained from STM images. With this value and the Butler–Volmer equation with a transfer coefficient of 0.5[16] for HER and HOR and standard values for the gas constant R, T and F, the exchange current density j<sup>0</sup> of a single particle can be calculated.

### Acknowledgements

This work was funded in part by the U.S. Army Research Office (ARO), USA under Grant No. W911NF-06–1–0483, by the European Commission with the project FCAnode (No. 032175) and by the International Graduate School of Science and Engineering (IGSSE).

#### Keywords: electrocatalysis · gold · hydrogen · nanoparticles · platinum

- [1] F. Maillard, M. Eikerling, O. V. Cherstiouk, S. Schreier, E. Savinova, U. Stimming, [Faraday Discuss.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b303911k) 2004, 125, 357 – 377.
- [2] F. Maillard, E. R. Savinova, U. Stimming, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2006.02.024) 2007, 599, [221 – 232.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2006.02.024)
- [3] K. A. Friedrich, F. Henglein, U. Stimming, W. Unkauf, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0013-4686(00)00430-8) 2000, 45[, 3283 – 3293](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0013-4686(00)00430-8).
- [4] H. A. Gasteiger, J. E. Panels, S. G. Yan, [J. Power Sources](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2003.09.013) 2004, 127, 162 [171.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2003.09.013)
- [5] K. C. Neyerlin, W. B. Gu, J. Jorne, H. A. Gasteiger, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.2733987) 2007, 154[, B631 – B635.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.2733987)
- [6] F. Hernandez, H. Baltruschat, [Langmuir](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la053257p) 2006, 22[, 4877 4884.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la053257p)
- [7] F. Hernandez, H. Baltruschat, [J. Solid. State Electr.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10008-007-0308-2) 2007, 11, 877 885.
- [8] A. Gross, [Top. Catal.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11244-006-0005-x) 2006, 37, 29 39.
- [9] L. A. Kibler, [ChemPhysChem](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cphc.200500646) 2006, 7, 985 991.
- [10] A. Roudgar, A. Gross, [Phys. Rev. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.67.033409) 2003, 67, 033409.
- [11] A. Roudgar, A. Gross, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(03)00230-4) 2003, 548, 121 130.
- [12] L. A. Kibler, A. M. El-Aziz, R. Hoyer, D. M. Kolb, [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.200462127) 2005, 117, [2116 – 2120](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.200462127); [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200462127) 2005, 44, 2080 – 2084.
- [13] J. Greeley, J. K. Nørskov, L. A. Kibler, A. M. El-Aziz, D. M. Kolb, [ChemPhys-](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cphc.200500663)Chem 2006, 7[, 1032 – 1035.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cphc.200500663)
- [14] M. Eikerling, J. Meier, U. Stimming, Z. Phys. Chem. 2003, 217, 395 414.
- [15] S. Pandelov, U. Stimming, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2007.02.043) 2007, 52, 5548 5555.
- [16] J. K. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, J. R. Kitchin, J. G. Chen, S. Pandelov, U. Stimming, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2005, 152, J23 – J26.
- [17] J. R. Kitchin, J. K. Nørskov, M. A. Barteau, J. G. Chen, [Phys. Rev. Lett.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.93.156801) 2004, 93[, 156801](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.93.156801).
- [18] J. Greeley, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Bonde, I. B. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, [Nat.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat1752) [Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat1752) 2006, 5[, 909 – 913.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nmat1752)
- [19] L. A. Kibler, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2008.01.097) 2008, 53, 6824 6828.
- [20] S. Schuldiner, M. Rosen, D. R. Flinn, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.2407282) 1970, 117, [1251](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.2407282).
- [21] J. H. Barber, B. E. Conway, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(98)00161-2) 1999, 461, 80 89.
- [22] N. M. Markovic´, B. N. Grgur, P. N. Ross, J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 5405 – 5413.
- [23] N. M. Markovic´, S. T. Sarraf, H. A. Gasteiger, P. N. Ross, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 3719 – 3725.
- [24] J. Barber, S. Morin, B. E. Conway, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(97)00652-9) 1998, 446, 125 [138.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(97)00652-9)
- [25] J. Perez, E. R. Gonzalez, H. M. Villullas, [J. Phys. Chem. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp9831987) 1998, 102, [10931 – 10935.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp9831987)
- [26] N. M. Markovic´, P. N. Ross, Surf. Sci. Rep. 2002, 45, 121 229.
- [27] A. Hamelin, L. Stoicoviciu, S. C. Chang, M. J. Weaver, [J. Electroanal.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(91)85547-3) [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(91)85547-3) 1991, 307[, 183 – 194.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(91)85547-3)
- [28] A. Hamelin, M. J. Weaver, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(87)85258-0) 1987, 223, 171 184.
- [29] S. Trasatti, [Russ. J. Electrochem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11175-005-0213-x) 2005, 41, 1255 1264.
- [30] K. Seto, A. Iannelli, B. Love, J. Lipkowski, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(87)80057-8) 1987, 226[, 351 – 360](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(87)80057-8).
- [31] H. Kita, S. Ye, Y. Gao, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(92)80583-P) 1992, 334, 351 357.
- [32] R. Gomez, A. Fernandezvega, J. M. Feliu, A. Aldaz, [J. Phys. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/j100120a032) 1993, 97[, 4769 – 4776](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/j100120a032).
- [33] M. Baldauf, D. M. Kolb, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0013-4686(93)80091-D) 1993, 38, 2145 2153.
- [34] H. Wolfschmidt, R. Bußar, U. Stimming, [J. Phys. Condens. Matter](http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/20/37/374127) 2008, 20[, 374127](http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/20/37/374127).
- [35] U. Frese, T. Iwasita, W. Schmickler, U. Stimming, [J. Phys. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/j100253a001) 1985, 89[, 1059 – 1062](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/j100253a001).
- [36] U. Frese, A. Pinkowski, U. Stimming, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1988, 135, C151 – C151.
- [37] U. Frese, U. Stimming, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(86)90015-X) 1986, 198, 409 416.
- [38] J. M. Feliu, A. Rodes, J. M. Orts, J. Clavilier, Pol. J. Chem. 1994, 68, 1575 – 1595.
- [39] J. Clavilier, J. M. Feliu, A. Fernandez Vega, A. Aldaz, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(89)80111-1) [1989](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(89)80111-1), 269[, 175 – 189](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(89)80111-1).

- [40] J. Clavilier, D. Armand, S. G. Sun, M. Petit, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(86)90237-8) 1986, 205[, 267 – 277](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(86)90237-8).
- [41] A. M. Funtikov, U. Linke, U. Stimming, R. Vogel, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(94)00774-8) 1995, 324, [L343L348](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(94)00774-8).
- [42] L. A. Kibler, A. Cuesta, M. Kleinert, D. M. Kolb, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(00)00065-6) [2000](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(00)00065-6), 484[, 73 – 82.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(00)00065-6)
- [43] S. Horch, H. T. Lorensen, S. Helveg, E. Laegsgaard, I. Stensgaard, K. W. Jacobsen, J. K. Nørskov, F. Besenbacher, Nature 1999, 398, 134 – 136.
- [44] N. M. Markovic, B. N. Grgur, C. A. Lucas, P. N. Ross, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0039-6028(97)00252-5) 1997, 384, [L805L814](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0039-6028(97)00252-5).
- [45] E. Vlieg, I. K. Robinson, K. Kern, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(90)90636-M) 1990, 233[, 248 254.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(90)90636-M)
- [46] L. A. Kibler, Preparation and Characterization of Noble Metal Single Crystal Electrode Surfaces in ISE M 2000 WARS 2002, 2003.
- [47] A. M. Funtikov, U. Stimming, R. Vogel, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(96)05051-6) 1997, 428, [147 – 153.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(96)05051-6)
- [48] D. A. Scherson, D. M. Kolb, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(84)80330-7) 1984, 176, 353 357.
- [49] B. Braunschweig, W. Daum, [Langmuir](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la901399j) 2009, 25[, 11112 11120.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/la901399j)
- [50] S. L. Chen, A. Kucernak, [J. Phys. Chem. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp048641u) 2004, 108, 13984 13994.
- [51] J. Maruyama, M. Inaba, K. Katakura, Z. Ogumi, Z.-i. Takehara, J. Electroanal. Chem. 1998, 447, 201 – 209.
- [52] V. S. Bagotzky, N. V. Osetrova, J. Electroanal. Chem. 1973, 43, 233 249.
- [53] W. Vogel, L. Lundquist, P. Ross, P. Stonehart, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0013-4686(75)85048-1) 1975, 20, [79 – 93.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0013-4686(75)85048-1)
- [54] C. G. Zoski, [J. Phys. Chem. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp027436g) 2003, 107, 6401 6405.
- [55] J. Zhou, Y. Zu, A. J. Bard, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(00)00100-5) 2000, 491, 22 29.
- [56] O. M. Magnussen, J. Hagebock, J. Hotlos, R. J. Behm, [Faraday Discuss.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/fd9929400329) 1992, 94[, 329 – 338.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/fd9929400329)
- [57] T. Dretschkow, T. Wandlowski, Ber. Bunsen Phys. Chem. 1997, 101, 749 757.
- [58] G. J. Edens, X. P. Gao, M. J. Weaver, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(94)03420-6) 1994, 375, [357 – 366.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(94)03420-6)
- [59] D. M. Kolb, [Prog. Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0079-6816(96)00002-0) 1996, 51, 109 173.
- [60] A. Hamelin, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(95)04499-X) 1996, 407, 1 11.
- [61] X. P. Gao, A. Hamelin, M. J. Weaver, [Phys. Rev. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.44.10983) 1991, 44, 10983 [10986](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.44.10983).
- [62] X. P. Gao, A. Hamelin, M. J. Weaver, [Phys. Rev. Lett.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.67.618) 1991, 67, 618 621.
- [63] O. M. Magnussen, J. Hotlos, R. J. Behm, N. Batina, D. M. Kolb, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(93)90027-H) [1993](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(93)90027-H), 296[, 310 – 332](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(93)90027-H).
- [64] A. S. Dakkouri, [Solid State Ionics](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0167-2738(96)00499-7) 1997, 94, 99 114.
- [65] O. M. Magnussen, J. Wiechers, R. J. Behm, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(93)90893-O) 1993, 289, 139 [151.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(93)90893-O)
- [66] M. Sturmat, R. Koch, K. H. Rieder, [Phys. Rev. Lett.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.5071) 1996, 77, 5071 5074.
- [67] G. J. Brug, M. Sluytersrehbach, J. H. Sluyters, A. Hamelin, [J. Electroanal.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0368-1874(84)83633-3) [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0368-1874(84)83633-3) 1984, 181[, 245 – 266.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0368-1874(84)83633-3)
- [68] A. Corma, M. Boronat, S. Gonzalez, F. Illas, [Chem. Commun.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b708468d) 2007, [3371 – 3373](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b708468d).
- [69] E. Bus, J. A. van Bokhoven, [Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b701402c) 2007, 9, 2894 [2902](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b701402c).
- [70] E. Bus, J. T. Miller, J. A. van Bokhoven, [J. Phys. Chem. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp051660z) 2005, 109, [14581 – 14587.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp051660z)
- [71] M. Boronat, F. Illas, A. Corma, [J. Phys. Chem. A](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp808271y) 2009, 113, 3750 3757.
- [72] D. C. Meier, D. W. Goodman, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja030359y) 2004, 126, 1892 1899.
- [73] L. A. Kibler, A. M. El-Aziz, D. M. Kolb, J. Mol. Catal. A 2003, 199, 57 63.
- [74] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(96)80007-0) 1995, 343[, 211 220](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(96)80007-0).
- [75] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, [Phys. Rev. Lett.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.81.2819) 1998, 81, [2819 – 2822](http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.81.2819).
- [76] A. Ruban, B. Hammer, P. Stoltze, H. L. Skriver, J. K. Nørskov, J. Mol. Catal. A 1997, 115, 421 – 429.
- [77] E. Santos, P. Quaino, G. Soldano, W. Schmickler, [J. Chem. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12039-009-0069-9) 2009, 121, [575 – 577.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12039-009-0069-9)
- [78] E. Santos, A. Lundin, K. Potting, P. Quaino, W. Schmickler, [J. Solid State](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10008-008-0702-4) [Electrochem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10008-008-0702-4) 2009, 13[, 1101 – 1109](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10008-008-0702-4).
- [79] E. Santos, W. Schmickler, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2007.12.049) 2008, 53, 6149 6156.
- [80] E. Santos, K. Potting, W. Schmickler, [Faraday Discuss.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b802253d) 2009, 140, 209 [218.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b802253d)
- [81] E. Santos, W. Schmickler, [Chem. Phys.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.chemphys.2006.11.033) 2007, 332, 39 47.
- [82] E. Santos, W. Schmickler, [ChemPhysChem](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cphc.200600441) 2006, 7, 2282 2285.
- [83] J. Steidtner, F. Hernandez, H. Baltruschat, [J. Phys. Chem. C](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp071712f) 2007, 111, [12320 – 12327.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp071712f)
- [84] B. E. Conway, J. O. Bockris, [J. Chem. Phys.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1743339) 1957, 26, 532 541.
- [85] R. Parsons, [Transactions of the Faraday Society](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/tf9585401053) 1958, 54, 1053 1063.

- [86] S. Trasatti, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(72)80485-6) 1972, 39, 163.
- [87] L. I. Krishtalik, P. Delahay (Eds.), Advances in Electrochemistry and Electrochemical Engineering, Interscience, New York, 1970.
- [88] J. Meier, K. A. Friedrich, U. Stimming, [Faraday Discuss.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b200014h) 2002, 121, 365 [372.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b200014h)
- [89] J. Meier, J. Schiotz, P. Liu, J. K. Nørskov, U. Stimming, [Chem. Phys. Lett.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2004.03.149) [2004](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2004.03.149), 390[, 440 – 444](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2004.03.149).
- [90] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, [Adv. Cat.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0360-0564(02)45013-4) 2000, 45[, 71 129](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0360-0564(02)45013-4).
- [91] P. M. Quaino, J. L. Fernandez, M. R. G. de Chialvo, A. C. Chialvo, J. Mol. Catal. A 2006, 252, 156 – 162.
- [92] H. Wolfschmidt, D. Weingarth, U. Stimming, unpublished results.
- [93] J. Greeley, J. K. Nørskov, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2007.01.037) 2007, 601[, 1590 1598.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2007.01.037)
- [94] E. Santos, W. Schmickler, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200702338) 2007, 46, 8262 8265.
- [95] T. Brlle, U. Stimming, J. Electroanal. Chem. 2009, 636, 10 17.
- [96] C. Camus, U. Stimming, unpublished results.

- [97] T. Lçffler, R. Bussar, E. Drbalkova, P. Janderka, H. Baltruschat, Electrochim. Acta 2003, 48, 3829 – 3839.
- [98] B. N. Grgur, N. M. Markovic, P. N. Ross, [Can. J. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1139/v97-176) 1997, 75, 1465 [1471](http://dx.doi.org/10.1139/v97-176).
- [99] A. J. Bard, L. R. Faulkner, Electrochemical methods, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2001.
- [100] D. M. Kolb, F. C. Simeone, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2004.12.042) 2005, 50, 2989 2996.
- [101] G. E. Engelman, J. C. Ziegler, D. M. Kolb, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.1838747) 1998, 145, [2970 – 2970](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.1838747).
- [102] G. E. Engelmann, J. C. Ziegler, D. M. Kolb, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0039-6028(98)00078-8) 1998, 401, [L420L424](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0039-6028(98)00078-8).

Received: February 24, 2010 Published online on April 15, 2010