---
source: Xu 等 - 2025 - Atomically Dispersed IrMo Nanoclusters Anchored on N‐Doped Hollow Carbon Nanospheres for Enhanced Al.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 78.747s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:36:18.529119Z
---

# Atomically Dispersed IrMo Nanoclusters Anchored on N-Doped Hollow Carbon Nanospheres for Enhanced Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction

Jing Xu, Zhenyu Huang, Yizhu Wang, Shouao Li, Yanfu Tong, Pengyun Liu, Xuejin Li, Hao Ren, Wei Xing,\* and Lianming Zhao\*

The slow hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) rate at the anode of the anion exchange membrane fuel cell currently holds back its further development. In this study, N-doped porous hollow carbon spheres (NHCSs) as a support are created, and highly dispersed small-sized IrMo nanoclusters (3.05 nm NCs) as the active species within NHCSs. The Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCS composite exhibits excellent HOR catalytic activity in 0.1 M KOH solution with a mass activity of 2687.20 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> and an exchange current density of 11.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which are 6.7 and 7.9 times higher than those of commercial Pt/C, respectively. Experiments and theoretical calculations suggest that Ir and Mo act as dual active sites for the H\* and OH\* adsorption. The high HOR catalytic activity of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is attributed to the synergistic effect of Ir and Mo, which modulates the d-band center of the catalyst and thus optimizes the binding energy of H\* and OH\*. Furthermore, the spatial confinement effect of the highly porous support structure, combined with the anchoring effect of N doping, not only increases the dispersion and exposure of active IrMo NCs, but also enhances their structural stability and resistance to CO poisoning.

## 1. Introduction

The extensive use of fossil fuels has led to a global energy crisis, environmental degradation, and climate disruption. [1–3] Hydrogen, as an ideal clean energy source, is seen as a potential replacement for fossil fuels, which could significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. [4–7] In hydrogen energy utilization, the anion exchange membrane fuel cell (AEMFC) is regarded as one of the most promising clean energy technologies. [8,9] It converts the chemical energy stored in hydrogen and oxygen into electricity through the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) at the anode and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) at the cathode. [10–12] Currently, the HOR at the anode is still considered a bottleneck for

J. Xu, Z. Huang, Y. Wang, S. Li, Y. Tong, P. Liu, X. Li, H. Ren, W. Xing, J. 7hao

Shandong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Energy Materials School of Materials Science and Engineering China University of Petroleum (East China) Qingdao, Shandong 266580, P. R. China E-mail: xingwei@upc.edu.cn; lmzhao@upc.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202504275

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202504275

AEMFCs.[13] The HOR dynamics on even the most catalytically active Pt-based catalysts were 2-3 orders of magnitude slower under alkaline conditions than under acidic conditions.[14-17] This implies higher catalyst usage and cost, which severely limits the further development of AEMFCs.[18] According to the bifunctional theory,[19] dual adsorption sites for H\* and OH\* are required under alkaline conditions, posing a challenge for catalyst design. Additionally, the low solubility of H<sub>2</sub> in solution limits the contact probability with the active substance, further resulting in slow HOR kinetics. Therefore, it is urgent to develop a new catalyst design strategy to address these issues.

Among various metals, Ir is considered a potential substitute for Pt, due to its higher stability and superior adsorption ability to OH species.<sup>[20,21]</sup> To reduce costs, the loading of iridium can be reduced by using single atom catalysts,

nanoparticle catalysts, or alloying strategies. It has been reported that compared to commercial Pt/C, Ir<sub>SA</sub>-Mo<sub>2</sub>C/C,<sup>[12]</sup> IrRu,<sup>[22]</sup> IrMo<sub>0.59</sub>,<sup>[23]</sup> and IrNi<sup>[24]</sup> exhibit superior HOR catalytic activity. Recently, atomically precise metal nanocluster (NC)based catalysts have received increasing attention in the field of electrocatalysis. [25-28] Compared to nanoparticle catalysts, NCbased catalysts offer higher atomic utilization and more precise atomic structure. [25,26] In contrast to single-atom catalysts, NCbased catalysts form stronger binding interactions with the support to improve stability due to abundant interfacial metal atoms, and provide more active centers to facilitate the adsorption of reaction intermediates (such as H and OH), to effectively avoid their competing adsorption on a single active site. [27,28] Zhao and his colleagues synthesized nitrogen-doped carbon sphere supported Pd nanoclusters, and found that Pd nanoclusters in the electron-deficient state exhibited superior catalytic hydrogenation performance compared to Pd nanoparticles.<sup>[27]</sup> Wang et al. prepared Ir clusters with an average size of 1 nm on porous hollow carbon nano-bowls, and the high distribution of Ir clusters resulted in excellent activity for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and long-term stability. [28] Despite these advantages, the further development of NC-based catalysts is hindered by shedding and agglomeration during the catalysis process.[20,29,30]

16136829, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202504275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthesis, morphology, and structure characterization of Ir1Mo5/NHCSs. a) Schematic representation of the synthetic route for Ir1Mo5/NHCSs. b) SEM image. c) TEM image. d) HAADF-STEM image. e) HAADF-STEM and corresponding EDX mapping images of Ir1Mo5/NHCSs showing the distribution of C (red), N (green), O (blue), Ir (yellow), and Mo (purple).

The catalyst support can not only anchor catalyst particles to enhance catalyst stability, but also modulate the electronic structure of catalysts through metal-support interactions to improve catalytic activity.[\[12,16,31,32\]](#page-7-0) Various nanostructured carbon materials, including carbon quantum dots, carbon nanotubes, porous carbon, and carbon spheres, are widely applied as catalyst support materials due to their high conductivity and low cost.[\[33,34\]](#page-8-0) Nevertheless, these materials do not exert enough anchoring effects on NCs to meet the stability requirements of the catalyst under operating conditions. An effective strategy is doping with heteroatoms and constructing special pore structures.[\[35,36\]](#page-8-0) In particular, Ndoped hollow porous carbon spheres (NHCSs) can exhibit superior anchoring and synergistic effects, when used as a catalyst support.[\[37,38\]](#page-8-0) First, the introduction of N atoms can produce an abundance of defects on the carbon sphere, which enhances the interaction with NCs, thereby promoting the stable dispersion of NCs.[\[39\]](#page-8-0) Second, the distinctive hollow structure and abundant nanoscale pores of NHCSs can spatially confine NCs, preventing their detachment and aggregation. Third, the unique NHCS structure can not only regulate the electronic structure of NCs to improve catalytic activity, but also exert spatial confinement effects to accumulate reactive species, thereby increasing the reaction probability.

Herein, we report the design of Ir1Mo5/NHCSs, where IrMo NCs are highly dispersed on NHCSs, showing outstanding HOR activity and stability in alkaline media. The unique hollow porous structure and N heteroatoms of NHCSs result in a significantly increased specific surface area and a plethora of structural defect sites, promoting a highly homogeneous dispersion of IrMo NCs with an average diameter of ≈3.1 nm. Experiments and density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that Ir and Mo in NCs can serve as efficient dual active sites for the H\* and OH\* adsorption in the HOR process. Benefiting from the synergistic interaction between Ir and Mo to finely regulate the adsorption of H\*, OH\*, and CO\*, as well as the unique spatial confinement of NHCSs with N doping to significantly enhance the anchoring effect on NCs, Ir1Mo5/NHCSs exhibit remarkable HOR catalytic activity, strong stability, and high CO poisoning resistance under alkaline conditions.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Catalyst Synthesis and Characterization**

The synthesis of IrMo/NHCSs, as depicted in **Figure 1**a, was refined from previously reported methods.[\[38\]](#page-8-0) Initially, TEOS underwent hydrolysis and condensation in solution to form silica cores, which were then deposited by dopamine hydrochloride (DA). Subsequently, NHCSs were produced by carbonizing polydopamine in the N2 atmosphere and etching the silica cores. Finally, the IrMo/NHCSs catalyst was prepared via a wet-chemical impregnation method using IrCl3 and (NH4)6Mo7O24-4H2O as

16136829, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202504275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Structure characterization of Ir1Mo5/NHCSs. a) XRD patterns of Ir/NHCSs, Ir/MoO2/NHCSs, Ir1Mo5/NHCSs, and NHCSs. b) Raman spectra of NHCSs, Ir1Mo5/NHCSs, and XC-72. c) EPR spectra of NHCSs and Ir1Mo5/NHCSs. d) Nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms of NHCSs and Ir1Mo5/NHCSs (inset: pore size distributions). High-resolution XPS spectra of e) C1s and f) N 1s of Ir1Mo5/NHCSs. g) High-resolution XPS spectra of Ir 4f regions in Ir1Mo5/NHCSs and Ir/NHCSs. h) High-resolution XPS spectra of Mo 3d regions in Ir1Mo5/NHCSs and Mo/NHCSs.

precursors, followed by reduction under an Ar/H2(90/10 v/v) atmosphere. To remove excess molybdenum oxides (e.g., MoO2), the product was treated with an HCl solution.[\[39\]](#page-8-0) For comparison, Ir/NHCSs, Mo/NHCSs, and IrMo/XC-72 catalysts were prepared using a similar approach. The successful formation of uniform hollow carbon spheres with a diameter of about 225 nm was confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure [1b;](#page-1-0) Figures S1,S2, Supporting Information). The rough surface facilitates the stable anchoring of IrMo NCs, ensuring high electrochemical stability. As shown in the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) (Figure [1c,d;](#page-1-0) Figure S3, Supporting Information), the typical Ir1Mo5/NHCSs present a morphologically homogeneous hollow sphere with a wall thickness of about 10 nm. The HAADF-STEM image further reveals that the IrMo NCs appear as bright dots uniformly distributed on the NHCSs without apparent aggregation. The average diameter of IrMo NCs was measured to be about 3.05 nm (Figure S3b, Supporting Information), which is evidently smaller than the pore size of NHCSs (4.13 nm, see Figure 2d). Therefore, IrMo NCs can infiltrate hollow carbon spheres and secure themselves within the inner shell and pore channels. In addition, the smaller size of IrMo nanoclusters contributes to high atomic utilization efficiency. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mappings suggest that Ir, Mo, N, and O elements are uniformly dispersed on the hollow carbon spheres (Figure [1e;](#page-1-0) Figure S4, Supporting Information). The introduction of N creates abundant structural defects on the surface of carbon spheres, enhancing the metalsupport interaction to stabilize IrMo NCs.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) Meanwhile, these defects can also modulate the electronic structure of IrMo NCs, thereby improving catalytic activity.[\[40\]](#page-8-0) In addition, the atomic ratio of Ir: Mo was tested to be 1:5, based on inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES, see Table S1, Supporting Information). All these results validate the successful synthesis of uniformly dispersed Ir1Mo5 NCs on the NHCSs support.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns reveal a prominent graphite carbon diffraction peak at around 26.5° for all the samples (see **Figure 2**a). Upon loading IrMo clusters, no distinct Ir and Mo diffraction peaks are detected, indicating that the IrMo NCs are highly dispersed on NHCSs support, with no crystalline structure. In the case of Ir/NHCSs, the characteristic peaks of Ir emerge at 40.66°, 47.30°, and 69.03°, corresponding to the (111), (200), and (220) crystal planes, respectively, suggesting the formation of Ir nanoparticles with a crystalline structure. Furthermore, Ir1Mo5/NHCSs exhibit almost no characteristic MoO2 peaks,

www.small-journal.com

16136829, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202504275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrar

indicating that most MoO<sub>2</sub> has been eliminated. In contrast, unetched Ir/MoO<sub>2</sub>/NHCSs exhibit distinct MoO<sub>2</sub> peaks. The degree of graphitization of all the samples can be found by Raman spectroscopy in Figure 2b, where the carbon peaks are located at around 1342 and 1605 cm<sup>-1</sup>, corresponding to the D and G bands, respectively. This  $I_D/I_C$  ratio is related to the degree of defects in the carbonaceous substrate. In general, a higher ratio indicates more defects, which favor a strong anchoring of the NCs on the NHCSs, thus improving the electrochemical stability. The  $I_D/I_G$  ratio of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  (1.01) is slightly lower than that of NHCSs (1.05), which can be attributed to the influence of nanoclusters anchoring.<sup>[20]</sup> However, it is significantly higher than that of conductive carbon black VX-72 (0.96), confirming more surface defects of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs.<sup>[27]</sup> Since the introduction of N can directly affect the electronic structure of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs, the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra were applied to measure the resonance response signal of unpaired electrons in composites.<sup>[41]</sup> As shown in Figure 2c, the pristine NHCSs display a subtle asymmetric derivative peak at a g factor value close to 2.025. Notably, the intensity of this peak significantly increases after the introduction of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>, suggesting the generation of more unpaired electrons, likely arising from N-Ir or N-Mo bonds. [42] The  $N_2$  adsorption experiments were further carried out to investigate the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area and average pore size (Figure 2d). Both Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs and NHCSs exhibit mesoporous structures with pore sizes ranging from 4–5 nm. The BET surface area of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is up to 1083 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, indicating a rich porous structure. Moreover, it is slightly lower than that of NHCSs (1171 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), due to the anchoring of the IrMo NCs on the surfaces.<sup>[43]</sup> The research results indicate that the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs prepared in this work have a high abundance of mesopores, which are conducive to the mass transfer process.[44] The well-dispersed and exposed IrMo clusters contribute to an increase in active sites. The spatial confinement effect of the pore channels helps to accumulate reactive species, thereby increasing the reaction probability. Consequently, the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCS catalyst, which consists of small-sized IrMo NCs and highly porous NHCSs, is expected to demonstrate outstanding performance in the HOR under alkaline conditions.

The surface composition and valence states of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs were analyzed utilizing X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS spectrum of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs (Figure S5, Supporting Information) confirms the presence of Ir, Mo, C, N, and O, aligning with the EDS results. This suggests the successful incorporation of N and the stable attachment of IrMo NCs to NHCSs. The high-resolution C 1s XPS spectrum (Figure 2e) displays a prominent main peak at 284.65 eV, corresponding to the C-C bond. In addition, two weak C-O and C=O peaks are also observed at 285.55 and 289.20 eV, respectively. The N 1s XPS spectrum shows four discernible peaks at 398.45, 399.80, 401.00, and 403.05 eV (Figure 2f), corresponding to pyridinic N, metal-N bond, graphitic N, and some oxidized N, respectively. [45] The data demonstrates a substantial peak area occupied by pyridine and graphitized nitrogen (Figure 2f), which can enhance the electron density near the Fermi level, leading to improved electrical conductivity.[45-47] The presence of metal-N bonding in the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs sample primarily results from interactions between Ir-N and Ir-Mo. Combined with EPR data, the metal-N bonds (Ir-N and Mo-N) suggest electron interactions between NCs and NHCSs, generating unpaired electrons and preventing NC aggregation.[39,48]

On the Ir 4f XPS spectrum, both Ir(0) and Ir(IV) species display a bimodal pattern (Figure 2g). For Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs, the peaks at 61.30 and 64.35 eV are assigned to the metallic Ir(0) as the predominant phase of the catalyst, while the peaks at 62.30 and 66.85 eV are attributed to Ir(IV) oxidation states.[43] Notably, compared to the Ir/NHCSs sample, the binding energy of Ir 4f for Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is decreased by about 0.23 eV (Figure 2g), suggesting the formation of electron-rich Ir. [43] By fitting the characteristic peaks, Mo 3d of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs can be assigned to Mo<sup>0</sup>, Mo<sup>4+</sup>, and Mo<sup>6+</sup>, and the corresponding characteristic peaks are located at 229.50/232.30, 231.05/232.80, and 231.60/234.80 eV, respectively (Figure 2h).[39] In comparison to the Mo/NHCSs sample, the binding energy of Mo 3d for Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is increased by 0.28 eV (Figure 2h), forming electron-deficient Mo. Therefore, an electron transfer from Mo to Ir occurs in Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs. This phenomenon modifies the electronic structures of IrMo NCs, improving H and OH binding energy (HBE and OHBE). Consequently, the catalytic performance is enhanced.[23]

### 2.2. Electrocatalytic HOR Activity

The HOR catalytic performance of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs, Ir/NHCSs, Mo/NHCSs, and commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) catalysts was tested on a CHI 660d electrochemical workstation with a standard three-electrode system in an H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte at 25 °C (**Figure 3**; Figures S6–S21, Supporting Information). The HOR performance of catalysts was evaluated by the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves using the rotating disk electrode method (Figure 3a). As shown in Figure 3a, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs exhibit the highest HOR anodic current in an H2-rich environment, indicating faster electrochemical kinetics than Ir/NHCSs, Mo/NHCSs, and Pt/C<sub>com</sub>. To explore the influence of NHCS supports on the HOR activity, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/C catalysts were also prepared and tested. As shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information), Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs exhibit an obviously higher current density compared to Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/C, suggesting a beneficial role of NHCSs in improving the HOR activity. The ultra-thin core-shell structure of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs can increase the contact area between the electrolyte and the electrode. Furthermore, the spatial confinement effect of pores and cavities can increase the concentration of insoluble reactants (such as H<sub>2</sub>), thereby enhancing the HOR probability. The LSV curves of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs were further tested in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH (Figure S7, Supporting Information). According to Figure S7 (Supporting Information), there is a negligible anodic current attributed to the oxidation of Mo species, indicating that the anodic current of the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is generated from hydrogen oxidation rather than from other reactions.

The cyclic voltammetry curves (CVs) of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs, Ir/NHCSs, Mo/NHCSs, and Pt/Ccom in N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution were measured to analyze the hydrogen adsorption/desorption behaviors and investigate the HOR mechanism (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Generally, the peak at 0.1-0.5 V versus RHE in the CVs corresponds to the hydrogen underpotential deposition ( $H_{upd}$ ) region of catalysts, where the  $H_{upd}$ peak potential is linearly dependent on HBE.[49] Compared to

16136289, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20254275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. Electrocatalytic HOR performance and stability. a) LSV polarization curves on  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ , Ir/NHCSs, Ir/NHCSs, and  $Pt/C_{com}$  in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at the rotating speed of 1600 rpm. b) In situ Raman spectra of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  collected in  $H_2$ -saturated and CO (1000 ppm)/ $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH. c) LSV curves of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  at different rotating rates (inset: the Koutecky–Levich plot of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  at an overpotential of 50 mV (versus RHE)). d) Tafel plots of the kinetic current densities. e) Comparison of mass activity at 50 mV ( $ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSs$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSS$  and Pt/ $ir_2Mo_5/NHCSS$  an

 $Pt/C_{com}$ , the lower peak potential of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  implies that it has a weaker HBE. Moreover, Mo/NHCSs show a negligible hydrogen deposition potential, revealing that Ir is the primary active site for H\* in Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs. The presence of CO on the metal surface can block active sites and thus reduce catalytic activity. However, at a certain voltage, the adsorbed OH\* becomes favorable for eliminating CO.[50] To confirm the effect of OH\* adsorption on CO oxidation performance, in situ Raman spectroscopy and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) were employed. In the Raman spectra (Figure 3b), a peak corresponding to OH\* appears at 980 cm<sup>-1</sup> under H<sub>2</sub> at 0.2-0.8 V. However, this peak vanishes upon CO introduction, confirming CO\* reacts with OH\*. [51] In addition, the high-frequency semicircle in Nyquist plots (Figure S9 and Tables S2 and S3, Supporting Information) is usually associated with the charge transfer resistance, with the diameter of the semicircle representing the magnitude of the charge transfer resistance (Rct).<sup>[52]</sup> Before the introduction of CO, the semicircle diameter was nearly identical at different voltages (Figure S9a, Supporting Information). However, after CO was added to the solution, the semicircle diameter decreased with the increasing voltage (Figure S9b, Supporting Information). This change indicates that the presence of CO reduces charge transfer resistance due to the reaction between the adsorbed OH\* and CO. Therefore, CO stripping experiments were further conducted to confirm the strength of OH adsorption on the catalyst surface. As shown in Figure S10 (Supporting Information), the CO stripping peak is negatively shifted from 0.88 V for Pt/C $_{\rm com}$  to 0.79 V for Ir $_{\rm 1}Mo_{\rm 5}/NHCSs$ , suggesting that Ir $_{\rm 1}Mo_{\rm 5}/NHCSs$  have stronger OH $_{\rm ad}$  adsorption than Pt/C $_{\rm com}$ .

The polarization process of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  was evaluated at various rotating speeds by fitting with the Koutecky-Levich equation (Figure 3c). As shown in Figure 3c, increasing rotational speed enhances current, indicating  $H_2$  mass transfer critically influences HOR kinetics. The Koutechy-Levich plot of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  was analyzed at 50 mV, revealing a linear slope of 4.56 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> (insert in Figure 3c). This value is reasonably close to the theoretical value of 4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> for the two-electron HOR process, suggesting that the anode current is mainly derived from the HOR process.<sup>[26]</sup> Alternatively, the Tafel slope can be calculated using the Tafel formula:

Tafel slope =  $2.303RT/(\alpha F)$ , where R represents the universal

gas constant, T is the temperature in Kelvin,  $\alpha$  is the transfer

coefficient, and F is Faraday's constant. In this work, the Tafel

slope of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is calculated to be 116 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, closely

approximating the theoretical value of 120 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. Conse-

quently, the Volmer step is identified as the rate-determining

step (RDS).[53] As shown in Figure 3d, the kinetic current den-

sity (jk) of Ir1Mo5/NHCSs is apparently higher than those of

Ir/NHCSs and Pt/C<sub>com</sub>. The exchange current density  $(j_0)$  was

calculated based on the Butler-Volmer formula by fitting the  $j_k$ .

 $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  exhibit a  $j_0$  value of 11.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 7.9

times larger than Pt/C<sub>com</sub> (1.4 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Furthermore, the no-

ble metal mass-normalized exchange current density  $(j_{0,m})$  and

kinetic current density  $(j_{km})$  based on ICP-OES measurements

of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs were calculated to be 2981.11 and 2687.20 mA

mg<sup>-1</sup> at 50 mV (see Figure S11, Supporting Information), which

are 17.7 and 6.7 times higher than  $Pt/C_{com}$  (168.74 mA  $mg^{-1}$ 

and 402.01 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>), respectively. The HOR activity of catalysts

with different Ir/Mo ratios was also studied. As shown in Figures S12–S17 (Supporting Information), the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs exhibit

the optimal electrocatalytic HOR performance under identical

conditions, indicating a composition-tuned synergistic effect be-

tween the Ir and Mo components. Notably, the outstanding mass

activity of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs outperforms that of most reported no-

ble metal-based catalysts in Figure 3e and Table S4 (Supporting

conditions, the voltage is increased to 100 mV for a subsequent current-time chronoamperometry experiment (Figure S21, Supporting Information). After 40 000 s of testing at a high voltage of 100 mV, the current density of Pt/C<sub>com</sub> experiences a significant decline of 72%. In contrast, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs show a much smaller reduction of only 26.5%, while maintaining excellent stability. Consequently, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs demonstrate superior stability compared to Pt/Ccom under real-world operating conditions. Notably, the high stability of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs primarily originates from the protection of IrMo NCs by the unique NHCS structure. To verify this mechanism, we systematically compared the surface chemical states and morphologies of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs before and after stability testing. As shown in Figure S22 (Supporting Information), XRD patterns demonstrate that both the positions and intensities of graphite carbon diffraction peaks in Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs remain essentially unchanged, with no observable impurity peaks emerging, indicating effective retention of a stable crystal structure. The unchanged Ir 4f and Mo 3d XPS spectra of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs before and after stability testing (Figure \$23, Supporting Information) further confirm their exceptional surface chemical stability during long-term electrochemical processes. Furthermore, TEM characterization reveals that Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub> NCs maintain uniform dispersion on the carbon nanosphere surfaces without significant agglomeration (Figure S24, Supporting

Information). These results demonstrate the outstanding HOR

catalytic stability of the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs catalyst.

Finally, the CO tolerance of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  and  $Pt/C_{\rm com}$  was evaluated by a chronoamperometry under 1000 ppm CO/H<sub>2</sub>saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 100 mV. After 1000s continuous testing, the current density of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs remained at 78.2%, whereas Pt/C<sub>com</sub> was completely deactivated after 650s (Figure 3h). This demonstrates that Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs exhibit superior CO resistance compared to Pt/C<sub>com</sub>. In addition, we conducted a comparative analysis of the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs against state-of-the-art HOR catalysts. As shown in Table \$5 (Supporting Information), the catalysts of Pt<sub>6</sub>NCs/C, [26] La<sub>1</sub>Pt@HCS, [50] and Pt-Sn-Sb<sup>[56]</sup> exhibit activity decreases of 39%, 23%, and 21.2%, respectively, when tested in a CO (1000 ppm)/H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 100 mV. In comparison, the Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs catalyst shows a decrease in activity of 21.8%, which is comparable to the CO tolerance of current state-of-the-art HOR catalysts. The high stability and CO tolerance of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs stem from the spatial confinement effect of NHCSs, which protects Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub> NCs. Additionally, the doping of N increases the interaction between Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub> NCs and NHCSs, thereby inhibiting the agglomeration and shedding of NCs during the catalytic process. Furthermore, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub> NCs have demonstrated a robust OH adsorption capacity, facilitating the oxidation of CO, and thus displaying exceptional resistance to CO poisoning.

Information). To explore the influencing factors of the catalytic activity, we studied the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA). Generally, the ECSA is related linearly to the electrochemical double layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>).<sup>[54]</sup> In this work, the C<sub>dl</sub> was calculated using cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements at nonfaraday regions (Figures S18, S19, Supporting Information).<sup>[28]</sup> As shown in Figure S19 (Supporting Information), the calculated  $C_{dl}$  for  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  is up to 25.67 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 2.7, 3.5, and 4.4 times higher than those of Ir/NHCSs (9.65 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), Mo/NHCSs (7.39 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Pt/ $C_{com}$  (5.89 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively, indicating that Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs show the largest ECSA. These results reveal that the outstanding HOR activity of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs is strongly dependent on their large ECSA. This can be attributed to the greater number of surface active sites created by the high dispersion of small-sized IrMo NCs and the large specific surface area of mesoporous NHCSs.[55] Additionally, the abundant mesoporous channels and cavities of NHCSs create unique spatial confinement effects, which can promote mass transfer and increase reaction probability, contributing to the high HOR activity of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs.

Besides the high electrocatalytic activity, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs exhibit exceptional durability and resistance to CO poisoning. First, continuous electrochemical CVs were conducted in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH to evaluate the durability (Figure 3f). After 2000 cycles, only a negligible decrease in electrocatalytic activity was observed for Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs, indicating the high stability of Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs. Then, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs and Pt/C<sub>com</sub> were examined by chronoamperometry at a rotating disk electrode at 60 mV. As shown in Figure 3g, Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs exhibit only a 13.4% decrease in current density after 10 hours, in contrast to a sharp deterioration (30.1%) for  $Pt/C_{\rm com}$ . It is worth noting that the catalyst retains 51.9% activity after the 100-hour stability test (Figure S20, Supporting Information). To better simulate real-world operating

Small 2025, 21, 2504275

# 2.3. Mechanism Investigation

To gain deeper insight into the HOR mechanism and elucidate the catalytic principle of catalysts, detailed DFT calculations were conducted for Ir<sub>1</sub>Mo<sub>5</sub>/NHCSs, Ir/NHCSs, and Mo/NHCSs catalysts (Figure 4; Figures S25-S33, Supporting Information). As depicted in Figure 4a, the charge density difference reveals a significant electronic interaction between IrMo NCs and NHCSs,

16136289, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202504275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. DFT calculation analyses. a) Side view of the charge density difference of the  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  model. The yellow and cyan regions refer to the decreased and increased charge distributions, respectively. b) Model of H\* adsorption on Ir sites (Ir, dark blue; Mo, cyan; C, grey; N, blue; H, white). c) Model of OH\* adsorption on Mo sites (Ir, dark blue; Mo, cyan; C, grey; N, blue; H, white; O, red). d) Calculated HBE and OHBE on optimal adsorption sites for Mo/NHCSs, Ir/NHCSs, and  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ . e) Model of CO adsorption on Ir sites (Ir, dark blue; Mo, cyan; C, grey; N, blue; O, red). f) Schematic illustration of the alkaline electrocatalytic HOR process of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  (Ir, dark blue; Mo, cyan; C, grey; N, blue; H, yellow; O, red). g) The PDOS diagram of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ , Ir/NHCSs, and  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ . h) Free energy diagram of the alkaline HOR on Mo/NHCSs, Ir/NHCSs, and  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ .

indicating that IrMo NCs are firmly anchored to the NHCS substrate. Furthermore, the Ir atoms in  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  are located within a distinct charge aggregation region (green color), while the Mo atoms are situated in a charge dissipation region (yellow color). These findings support a charge transfer from Mo to Ir, which is in agreement with the XPS analysis (Figure 2g,h). To elucidate the impact of the charge transfer on the electronic structure, the projected density of states (PDOS) of the d orbitals for  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ , Ir/NHCSs, and Mo/NHCSs catalysts were computed (Figure 4g). The d-band center of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  is located further from the Fermi level ( $E_F$ ) than those of Ir/NHCSs and Ir/NHCSs, which weakens the adsorption of species, such as Ir/NHCSs, and Ir/NHCSs.

As shown in Figure 4b,c, the IrMo NC in  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  was found to form efficient dual active sites for HOR catalysis, where the electrophilic H\* tends to adsorb at electronrich Ir sites, while the nucleophilic OH\* prefers to adsorb at electron-deficient Mo sites. From Figure 4d, it was observed that the HBE of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  ( $\Delta G_H = -0.09$  eV) has the closest ideal value for HOR ( $\Delta G_H = 0$ ). For the OH\* adsorption, the OHBE of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  is enhanced compared to

that of Ir/NHCSs (Figure 4d), which promotes the HOR process. However, Mo/NHCSs are prone to oxidation due to excessively strong OH adsorption (Figure 4d). In contrast, the reduced OHBE on the Mo site of  $\rm Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  can effectively prevent its oxidation compared to Mo/NHCSs. According to the bifunctional theory, [19] the optimized synergy of HBE and OHBE for  $\rm Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  enhances their HOR catalytic activity.

The CO adsorption model on  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  is shown in Figure 4e. The adsorption energy of CO on  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  (-0.9 eV, see Figure S34, Supporting Information) is significantly weaker than that on Pt/C (-1.5 eV), indicating that  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  have superior resistance to CO poisoning. Moreover, the stronger OHBE of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$  (Figure 4d) can promote CO removal during catalysis, contributing to their excellent CO-tolerant ability. [26]

The schematic diagram in Figure 4f depicts the electrocatalytic HOR process of  $Ir_1Mo_5/NHCSs$ . The HOR process begins with the adsorption of the  $H_2$  molecule at the optimal Ir site, followed by its decomposition into two atomic H\* through the Tafel process. Subsequently, the H\* at the Ir site combines with OH\* at the Mo site to produce water, which is the Volmer step. In the

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Tafel reaction, Ir atoms participate as the main active site in the adsorption of hydrogen molecules. From the charge density difference calculated in Figure [4a,](#page-6-0) it can be seen that there is an obvious charge aggregation region around Ir atoms, which is favorable for attracting hydrogen molecules. The experimental CV curves (Figure S8, Supporting Information) display peaks linked to hydrogen adsorption at specific potential intervals, confirming the process of hydrogen adsorption on the catalyst surface. Charge depletion around Mo sites (Figure [4a\)](#page-6-0) significantly enhances the OH\* adsorption, supported by adsorption energy data (Figure [4d\)](#page-6-0). The adsorbed H\* on the Ir site and the adsorbed OH\* on the Mo site are near each other and react on the catalyst surface to form water. This synergistic effect of Ir and Mo as dual active sites facilitates the effective reaction of the reactants in optimal spatial and energetic states, thereby avoiding the competitive adsorption of H\* and OH\* and subsequently enhancing the overall reaction efficiency. The calculated Gibbs free energy diagram of the Tafel-Volmer process is shown in Figure [4h.](#page-6-0) The free energy change for the Tafel step on Ir1Mo5/NHCSs was calculated to be 0.11 eV, indicating that this is a facile process. In comparison, the free energy change for the Volmer step has increased to 0.29 eV on Ir1Mo5/NHCSs, making it the potential-determining step (PDS) of HOR. It's worth noting that the free energy change of the PDS on Ir1Mo5/NHCSs is significantly lower than those on Mo/NHCSs (1.87 eV) and Ir/NHCSs (0.65 eV), confirming the high HOR dynamics on Ir1Mo5/NHCSs.

Overall, both DFT and experimental results indicate that: (i) Ir1Mo5/NHCSs can offer dual active sites to prevent competitive adsorption between H\* and OH\*. (ii) The electronic interactions between Ir and Mo optimize HBE, OHBE, and CO binding energy, reducing the HOR activation energy barrier and CO adsorption. These accelerate the HOR and improve the CO tolerance in alkaline media.

# **3. Conclusions**

In conclusion, we successfully synthesized N-doped hollow porous carbon nanospheres using a simple hard template approach and effectively enclosed the IrMo NCs within the hollow spheres via a wet-chemical impregnation process. The distinctive hollow porous structure and N-doping significantly improve the specific surface area and create numerous defect sites. This promotes homogeneous dispersion and stability of IrMo NCs on NHCSs. Moreover, the spatial confinement effect of the mesopores can accumulate reactive species to increase the HOR probability. Both experimental and theoretical calculations have demonstrated that Ir1Mo5/NHCSs can effectively provide dual active sites for the adsorption of H\* and OH\*. Furthermore, the electronic interaction between Ir and Mo in Ir1Mo5/NHCSs optimizes the HBE and OHBE, while weakening the CO binding energy. This optimization improves the kinetics of the HOR and reduces the oxidation of CO in alkaline media. Consequently, the Ir1Mo5/NHCSs catalyst exhibits impressive HOR catalytic activity, featuring a mass activity of 2687.20 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and an exchange current density of 11.0 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, along with notably improved structural stability and CO resistance. This work inspires the design and application of highly dispersed NC-based catalysts with high HOR activity in alkaline media.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (U23B2087) and Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation (ZR2022MB094).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

dual active sites, hydrogen oxidation reactions, IrMo nanoclusters, N-doped porous hollow carbon spheres, synergistic interaction

> Received: April 6, 2025 Revised: June 5, 2025 Published online: June 13, 2025

16136829, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202504275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, aad4998.
- [2] D. Li, E. J. Park, W. Zhu, Q. Shi, Y. Zhou, H. Tian, Y. Lin, A. Serov, B. Zulevi, E. D. Baca, C. Fujimoto, H. T. Chung, Y. S. Kim, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 378.
- [3] P. A. Kempler, J. J. Slack, A. M. Baker, *Joule* **2022**, *6*, 280.
- [4] S. Noh, J. Y. Jeon, S. Adhikari, Y. S. Kim, C. Bae, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2019**, *52*, 2745.
- [5] J. M. Thomas, P. P. Edwards, P. J. Dobson, G. P. Owen, *J. Energy Chem.* **2020**, *51*, 405.
- [6] Z. P. Cano, D. Banham, S. Ye, A. Hintennach, J. Lu, M. Fowler, Z. Chen, *Nat. Energy* **2018**, *3*, 279.
- [7] C. A. Campos-Roldán, N. Alonso-Vante, *Electrochem. Energy. Rev.* **2019**, *2*, 312.
- [8] N. Ramaswamy, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, Q. Jia, J. Li, S. Mukerjee, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *41*, 765.
- [9] B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020.
- [10] F. Yang, X. Bao, Y. Zhao, X. Wang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 10936.
- [11] B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, L. Xia, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400.
- [12] J. Fang, H. Wang, Q. Dang, H. Wang, X. Wang, J. Pei, Z. Xu, C. Chen, W. Zhu, H. Li, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 4236.
- [13] X. Wang, X. Li, D. Kong, L. Zhao, Y. Cui, Y. Wang, T. Cai, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, W. Xing, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *104*, 107877.
- [14] Z.-C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 5153.
- [15] Y. Zhao, D. Wu, W. Luo, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 1616.

16136829, 2025, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202504275 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[16] D. Q. Liu, Z. Luo, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, W. Guo, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *13*, 2202913.
- [17] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [18] Z. Cheng, Y. Yang, F. Zheng, S. Chen, P. Wang, P. Wang, H. Huang, C. Wang, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 3845.
- [19] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [20] X. Ji, P. Chen, Y. Liu, Z. Kang, H. Zhou, Z. Ji, X. Shen, X. Song, G. Zhu, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 14187.
- [21] E. Antolini, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 1426.
- [22] J. Ohyama, D. Kumada, A. Satsuma, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 15980.
- [23] L. Fu, Y. Li, N. Yao, F. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7322.
- [24] J. Liao, W. Ding, S. Tao, Y. Nie, W. Li, G. Wu, S. Chen, L. Li, Z. Wei, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2016**, *37*, 1142.
- [25] R. Jin, G. Li, S. Sharma, Y. Li, X. Du, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *121*, 567.
- [26] X. Wang, L. Zhao, X. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, Q. Yao, J. Xie, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1596.
- [27] H. Zhao, C. Liu, Y. Zheng, S. Li, Y. Gao, Q. Ma, F. Wang, Z. Dong, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 8619.
- [28] Y. Zhao, Q. Sun, X. Zhou, Z. Duan, C. Zhang, G. R. Xu, D. Ju, L. Wang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2305343.
- [29] Y. Chen, J. Lin, B. Jia, X. Wang, S. Jiang, T. Ma, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2201796.
- [30] Y. He, S. Hwang, D. A. Cullen, M. A. Uddin, L. Langhorst, B. Li, S. Karakalos, A. J. Kropf, E. C. Wegener, J. Sokolowski, M. Chen, D. Myers, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 250.
- [31] B. Qin, H. Yu, J. Chi, J. Jia, X. Gao, D. Yao, B. Yi, Z. Shao, *RSC Adv.* **2017**, *7*, 31574.
- [32] Y. Yang, L. Zhao, Y. Sun, Y. Lin, L. Yang, K. Mao, C. Li, K. Xu, *Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *62*, 5032.
- [33] E. H. Fragal, V. H. Fragal, X. Huang, A. C. Martins, T. S. P. Cellet, G. M. Pereira, E. Mikmeková, A. F. Rubira, R. Silva, T. Asefa, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 1066.
- [34] T. Asefa, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2016**, *49*, 1873.
- [35] C. Tang, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1604103.
- [36] L. Dai, Y. Xue, L. Qu, H.-J. Choi, J.-B. Baek, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, *115*, 4823.
- [37] L. P. L. Gonçalves, M. Meledina, A. Meledin, D. Y. Petrovykh, J. P. S. Sousa, O. S. G. P. Soares, Y. V. Kolen'ko, M. F. R. Pereira, *Carbon* **2022**, *195*, 35.

- [38] R. Liu, S. M. Mahurin, C. Li, R. R. Unocic, J. C. Idrobo, H. Gao, S. J. Pennycook, S. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2011**, *50*, 6799.
- [39] M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Zheng, L. Li, J. Li, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14932.
- [40] X. Kang, Y. Li, M. Zhu, R. Jin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 6443.
- [41] X. Zhang, Y. Liu, C. Li, L. Tian, F. Yuan, S. Zheng, Z. Sun, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132374.
- [42] Y. Duan, Y. Wang, W. Zhang, J. Zhang, C. Ban, D. Yu, K. Zhou, J. Tang, X. Zhang, X. Han, L. Gan, X. Tao, X. Zhou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301729.
- [43] N. Wei, M. Mao, J. Wu, Y. Long, G. Fan, *Fuel* **2022**, *319*, 123637.
- [44] Y. Li, S. Wang, X. J. E. Wang, *EcoEnergy* **2024**, *2*, 205.
- [45] R. Xing, T. Zhou, Y. Zhou, R. Ma, Q. Liu, J. Luo, J. Wang, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2017**, *10*, 3.
- [46] D. S. Su , J. Zhang, B. Frank, A. Thomas, X. Wang, J. Paraknowitsch, R. Schlögl, *ChemSusChem* **2010**, *3*, 169.
- [47] S. Wu, Y. Zhu, Y. Huo, Y. Luo, L. Zhang, Y. Wan, B. Nan, L. Cao, Z. Wang, M. Li, M. Yang, H. Cheng, Z. Lu, *Sci. China Mater.* **2017**, *60*, 654.
- [48] X. Wang, Y. Gong, Z. Liu, P. Wu, L. Zhang, J. Sun, *New Carbon Mater* **2024**, *39*, 164.
- [49] Y. Yang, Q. Dai, L. Shi, Y. Liu, T. T. Isimjan, X. Yang, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *13*, 2107.
- [50] X. Wang, Y. Tong, W. Feng, P. Liu, X. Li, Y. Cui, T. Cai, L. Zhao, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 3767.
- [51] Z. Huang, S. Hu, M. Sun, Y. Xu, S. Liu, R. Ren, L. Zhuang, T.-S. Chan, Z. Hu, T. Ding, J. Zhou, L. Liu, M. Wang, Y.-C. Huang, N. Tian, L. Bu, B. Huang, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1097.
- [52] H. Cai, H. Yang, S. He, D. Wan, Y. Kong, D. Li, X. Jiang, X. Zhang, Q. Hu, C. He, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, 202423765.
- [53] X. Tian, P. Zhao, W. J. A. M. Sheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808066.
- [54] D. Feng, Y. Dong, P. Nie, L. Zhang, Z.-A. Qiao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 132883.
- [55] I. S. Pieta, A. Rathi, P. Pieta, R. Nowakowski, M. Hołdynski, M. Pisarek, A. Kaminska, M. B. Gawande, R. Zboril, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2019**, *244*, 272.
- [56] X. Wang, X. Gao, L. Tang, P. Sun, Y. Liu, S. Hou, Y. Tong, X. Yin, X. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2411206.
- [57] S. Qin, Y. Duan, X.-L. Zhang, L.-R. Zheng, F.-Y. Gao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, R. Liu, Y. Yang, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2686.
- [58] X. Huang, W. Ling, R. Cui, X. Li, Y. Xi, Z. Tang, *EcoEnergy* **2025**, [https:](https://doi.org/10.1002/ece2.95) [//doi.org/10.1002/ece2.95.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ece2.95)