---
source: Yang 等 - 2019 - Boosting Hydrogen Oxidation Activity of Ni in Alkaline Media through Oxygen‐Vacancy‐Rich CeO2.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 13.063s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:36:31.595525Z
---

## **Akzeptierter Artikel**

**Titel:** Boosting Hydrogen Oxidation Activity of Ni in Alkaline Media through Oxygen Vacancy-Rich CeO2/Ni Heterostructures

Autoren: Wei Luo, Fulin Yang, Xi Bao, Peng Li, Xuewei Wang, Gongzhen Cheng, and Shengli Chen

Dieser Beitrag wurde nach Begutachtung und Überarbeitung sofort als "akzeptierter Artikel" (Accepted Article; AA) publiziert und kann unter Angabe der unten stehenden Digitalobjekt-Identifizierungsnummer (DOI) zitiert werden. Die deutsche Übersetzung wird gemeinsam mit der endgültigen englischen Fassung erscheinen. Die endgültige englische Fassung (Version of Record) wird ehestmöglich nach dem Redigieren und einem Korrekturgang als Early-View-Beitrag erscheinen und kann sich naturgemäß von der AA-Fassung unterscheiden. Leser sollten daher die endgültige Fassung, sobald sie veröffentlicht ist, verwenden. Für die AA-Fassung trägt der Autor die alleinige Verantwortung.

**Zitierweise:** Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 10.1002/anie.201908194 Angew. Chem. 10.1002/ange.201908194

Link zur VoR: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908194 http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201908194

# **Boosting Hydrogen Oxidation Activity of Ni in Alkaline Media through Oxygen Vacancy-Rich CeO2/Ni Heterostructures**

Fulin Yang,†[a] Xi Bao, †[a] Peng Li, †[a] Xuewei Wang,[a] Gongzhen Cheng,[a] Shengli Chen,\*[a]and Wei Luo\*[a]

**Abstract:** Searching for highly efficient platinum group metal (PGM) free electrocatalysts towards hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline electrolytes remains a great challenge for the development of alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs). Here we report the synthesis of oxygen vacancy-rich CeO2/Ni heterostructure and its remarkable HOR performance in alkaline media. Experimental results and density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate the electron transfer between CeO<sup>2</sup> and Ni could lead to the thermo-neutral adsorption free energies of H\* (Δ*G*H\*), together with the promoted OH\* adsorption strength derived from the plenty of oxygen vacancies in CeO<sup>2</sup> species, contributes to the excellent HOR performance with the exchange current density and mass activity of 0.038 mA cmNi -2 and 12.28 mA mgNi -1 , respectively, which present a new benchmark for PGM-free alkaline HOR. This work opens a new avenue toward rational designing of high-performance PGM-free electrocatalysts for alkaline HOR.

Compared to the commercialized proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs),[1] alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) have received considerable attentions due to the development of platinum group metal (PGM)-free electrocatalysts for catalyzing the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) with Pt-like activity and long-term stability under alkaline conditions.[2] Nevertheless, the kinetics of anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) becomes significantly sluggish, which is about two to three orders of magnitude slower in alkaline media than in acidic media.[3] Accordingly, searching for highly efficient PGM-free electrocatalysts towards hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline electrolytes becomes crucially important. To our best knowledge, previous studies on PGM-free HOR electrocatalysts are mainly focused on Ni-based materials,[4] however, their catalytic performances are still far behind those of PGM-based catalysts.[5]

 Recent advances demonstrate that the typical HOR process in alkaline media follows a Tafel–Volmer or Heyrovsky–Volmer mechanism: [4h,5b]

> Tafel step: <sup>2</sup> ↔ 2 Heyrovsky step: <sup>2</sup> + <sup>−</sup> ↔ + 2 + −

[a] F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, Prof. Dr. G. Cheng, Prof. Dr. S. Chen, Prof. Dr. W. Luo College of Chemistry and Molecular Sciences Wuhan University

Wuhan, Hubei 430072, P. R. China E-mail: slchen@whu.edu.cn; wluo@whu.edu.cn.

†These authors contributed equally. Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.((Please delete this text if not appropriate))

Volmer step: + <sup>−</sup> ↔ 2 + −

Owing to the relatively strong hydrogen binding energy (HBE) of Ni, the Volmer step has been regarded as the rate-determining step in alkaline HOR.[4a-c,h] Therefore, numerous efforts have been devoted to weakening the HBE of Ni species. It should be noted that, besides Had, the adsorption of hydroxyl species might also play a critical role in HOR under alkaline media. [6] Nevertheless, OH<sup>−</sup> is difficult to approach the electrode surface to complete the Volmer step because the potential window of HOR in alkaline electrolytes is far from the potential of zero (free) charge.[7] As a result, improving the oxophilicity of the catalysts should enhance the kinetics of HOR in alkaline media. Indeed, according to the bifunctional theory developed by Markovic et al., an ideal alkaline HOR catalyst is suggested to optimally balance the active sites that are used for adsorption of H species (Had) and hydroxyl species (OHad), which has been verified in Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> or Pt-Ru systems. [6a,8] Thus, the rational design and construction of Nibased catalysts to provide active sites for both optimal adsorption of Had and OHad is of great significant, but still remains a challenge.

 Herein, we synthesize a CeO2-decorated Ni NPs hybrid supported on Vulcan XC-72 carbon black, and show that it behaves as an excellent electrocatalyst for HOR in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. In addition, the relationship between the intrinsic HOR activity of Ni sites and the content of oxygen vacancies on CeO<sup>2</sup> is also investigated. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the CeO<sup>2</sup> with plenty of oxygen vacancies are shown to enhance the catalytic performance of Ni by optimizing the HBE and offering abundant active sites for adsorption of hydroxyl species.

 The CeO2-decorated Ni hybrid was synthesized on XC-72 through sequential processes including solvothermal synthesis of CeO2, and reduction of Ni precursors via NaBH<sup>4</sup> in the presence of CeO2and XC-72. In the first step, ceria nanocrystals were synthesized through a solvothermal process and followed by annealing treatment. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis confirms the formation of CeO<sup>2</sup> without crystalline impurity (Figure S1). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image indicates the polyhedral morphology of CeO<sup>2</sup> NPs with an average size of about 9.7 nm (Figure S2). In the reduction process, with adding of different amounts of CeO<sup>2</sup> (17.2 mg, 34.4 mg, and 51.6 mg), the obtained catalysts were denoted as CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1, CeO2(r)- Ni/C-2, and CeO2(r)-Ni/C-3, respectively (Table S1). In addition, the catalyst without adding CeO<sup>2</sup> was also synthesized in the same way, which denoted as Ni/C. Their XRD patterns are presented in Figure 1a. Besides the characteristic diffraction peaks of CeO2, other obvious peaks located at 44.5°, 51.8°, and 76.4° corresponding to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of facecentered cubic (*fcc*) Ni (PDF#04-0850) can be observed. The weak broad peaks located at about 25° for all the four samples

are attributed to the (002) plane of graphitic carbon (PDF#75- 1621).

**Figure 1.** XRD patterns (a) and electrochemical tests (b-e) of Ni/C, CeO2(r)- Ni/C-1, CeO2(r)-Ni/C-2, and CeO2(r)-Ni/C-3. CVs (b) in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−1 . HOR polarization curves (c) in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a rotating speed of 2500 rpm with a scan rate of 5 mV s−1 . Tafel plots (d) derived from (b). The lines indicate the Butler–Volmer fittings. (d) Comparison of the mass activities and the exchange current densities of the four catalysts.

The HOR performances of all the samples were performed using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) system in a standard threeelectrode system. In Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution, cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of these catalysts were first investigated and shown in Figure 1b. Apparent anodic peaks at about 0.3 V (versus the reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) and cathodic peaks at about 0.0 V can be attributed to the oxidation and reduction of Ni species, respectively.[9,10] It should be noted that, compared with the CeO2-free sample (Ni/C), the other three catalysts show about 10 mV negatively shifted anodic peaks, suggesting the changed electronic configuration of Ni surface due to the interaction with CeO<sup>2</sup> (*vide infra*).[9,11] The HOR polarization curves obtained in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH are presented in Figure 1c at a rotating speed of 2500 rpm. It can be seen unambiguously that CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 shows the highest catalytic performance. Figure S3 shows the HOR polarization curves on CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH as a function of rotation rate from 2500 rpm to 400 rpm, as well as the Koutecky– Levich plot constructed at the overpotential of 0.05 V. The slope is calculated to be 13.8 cm<sup>2</sup> mA-1 rpm1/2, in good agreement with the theoretical value of 14.8 cm<sup>2</sup> mA-1 rpm1/2 . The value of the kinetic current density (*j k* ) is measured to be 1.73 mA cm-2 from the intercept based on Koutecky–Levich equation. [4a,c] Additionally, the exact loadings of Ni in these catalysts were measured by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), which are 52.3, 46.1, 36.9, and 25.1 wt. %, for Ni/C, CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1, CeO2(r)-Ni/C-2, and CeO2(r)- Ni/C-3, respectively. Hence, after normalized by the mass of Ni on the working electrode, the mass activity of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 is around 12.28 mA mgNi-1 at 50 mV, which is higher than that of Ni/C (5.89 mA mgNi-1 ), CeO2(r)-Ni/C-2 (10.95 mA mgNi-1 ), CeO2(r)- Ni/C-3 (10.26 mA mgNi-1 ), and most of the other Ni-based catalysts,[4,5] as shown in Figure 1e and Table S2.

As shown in Figure 1d, four catalysts display the symmetrical kinetic current density-potential curves, with the values of *α*  between 0.47 and 0.58. After normalized by the electrochemically active surface areas (*ECSA*s) determined by the accumulated charge quantity of OH desorption from the surface of Ni (Figure S3),[4a,b] the value of the exchange current density (*j 0,s*) of CeO2(r)- Ni/C-1 is measured to be 0.038 mA cmNi-2 according to the Butler– Volmer equation, [4a,c] which is about 20 times higher than the pure Ni catalysts reported by others,[4a,h] and also higher than that of Ni/C (0.016 mA mgNi-2 ), CeO2(r)-Ni/C-2 (0.037 mA cmNi-2 ), CeO2(r)-Ni/C-3 (0.032 mA cmNi-2 ), as well as most of other reported Ni-based catalysts,[4,5] as shown in Figure 1e and Tables S2 and S3. To exclude the interference from the currents contributed by the formation of hydrids or (hydr)oxides, [12] steadystate polarization curve of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 obtained from the chronoamperometry is shown in Figure S5. The similar polarization behaviors indicate that the "true" HOR activities of these Ni-based catalysts could be measured without interference. Accelerated durability test was also performed to investigate the stability of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1. As shown in Figure S6, obviously decrease of *j 0,s* could be acttributed to the irreversible formation of *β*–Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> when the anodic potential is positive to about 0.1 V vs RHE.[13] However, it still higher than the pristine Ni/C, indicating the superior activity of ceria-contained Ni-based catalyst.

The TEM image of CeO2(r)-Ni/C shows the hybrids are well dispersed on carbon spheres with similar particle size distributions (Figures 2a, S7, and S8). The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image clearly reveals the presence of an interface between two different species marked by the white dotted line (Figure 2b). The lattice fringe above the interface is about 0.31 nm (Figure 2c), which could be attributed to the (111) plane of CeO2, agreeing with the XRD pattern. The lattice fringe below the interface is about 0.20 nm (Figure 2d), corresponding to the (111) facet of Ni. Moreover, the distributions of Ni, Ce, O, and C in CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 were also investigated by the high-angle annular dark field-Scanning TEM-energy dispersive X-ray (HAADF-STEM-EDX) elemental mapping analysis (Figure 2e-i). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was also performed to investigate the surface composition and valence state. As shown in Figure S9, Ni 2p3/2 XPS spectra of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 exhibites a slightly positive shift compared to Ni/C, indicating the electron transfer from Ni to CeO2.

**Figure 2.** TEM image (a) and HRTEM images (b-d) of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1. STEM image (e) and EDS maps of Ni (f), Ce (g), O (h), and C (i) elements in CeO2(r)- Ni/C-1.

To confirm the role of the oxygen vacancies on CeO<sup>2</sup> during the catalytic process, CeO2-Ni/C-1 was synthesized through a reduction process of Ni precursors by NaBH<sup>4</sup> in the presence of carbon supports, and sequential mixed with CeO<sup>2</sup> nanocrystals. The XRD pattern and TEM images are exhibited in Figure S10. Figure 3a shows the Raman spectra of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 and CeO2- Ni/C-1. The three bands marked by blue areas can be assigned to the F2g, D, and 2LO bands of CeO2, [14] while the other two bands marked by orange areas can be attributed to the D and G bands of graphitized carbon.[15] In general, F2g bands located at 458 cm-1 represent the vibrational mode of the fluorite-type structure of bulk CeO2, and D bands located at 500~600 cm-1 can be assigned to the oxygen vacancies when fractional CeIV turns into CeIII . [14a,c] The noticeably stronger intensity of D bands, as well as higher intensity ratio of D and F2g bands in CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1, suggest the much higher levels of the oxygen vacancy than those in CeO2- Ni/C-1 due to its extra reduction treatment. Moreover, to avoid the disturbance from surface oxidation of the Ni-species which possesses the characteristic peaks at around 570, 730, 906, and 1090 cm-1 , [16] two kinds of ceria (denoted as CeO2(r) and CeO2) without the addition of Ni-species and the carbon supports were also synthesized and characterized by Raman spectra. As shown in Figure S11, only F2g band is observed in CeO2. While for CeO2(r), D and 2LO bands can also be observed, suggesting the existence of abundant oxygen vacancies. It should be noted that the F2g band red-shifts from 464 cm-1 in CeO2(r) or CeO<sup>2</sup> to 458 cm-1 in CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 or CeO2-Ni/C-1, strongly suggesting the interaction between Ni and ceria-species,[14b] which is consistent with the result from the CVs in Figure 1b. XPS were also performed to investigate the nature of the surface species of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 and CeO2-Ni/C-1. Full spectra shown in Figure S12 suggest the existence of Ni, Ce, O and C. O 1s spectra presented in Figure 3b can be deconvoluted into four peaks, located at 529.5, 531.1, 531.9, and 533.3 eV, corresponding to the lattice oxygen, hydroxide, oxygen vacancy, and adsorbed water molecules or hydroxyl species, respectively.[17] Compared to CeO2-Ni/C-1, CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 shows more oxygen vacancies, which is in accordance with the Raman result.

**Figure 3.** Raman spectra (a), O 1s XPS (b), and electrochemical tests (c-f) of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 and CeO2-Ni/C-1. CVs (c) in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−1 . HOR polarization curves (d) in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a rotating speed of 2500 rpm with a scan rate of 5 mV s−1 . Tafel plots (e) derived from (d). The lines indicate the Butler–Volmer fittings. (f) Comparison of the mass activities and the exchange current densities of the two catalysts.

The CVs of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 and CeO2-Ni/C-1 were conducted in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s-1 and shown in Figure 3c. The anodic peak of CeO2-Ni/C-1 at 0.299 V is more positive than that of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 (0.294 V), but shifted negatively compared to Ni/C (0.304 V shown in Figure 2b). This result further confirms that the synergistically electronic interaction between Ni and CeO2. [9,11] The HOR polarization curves (Figure 3d) indicate that CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 exhibits a much higher apparent performance than CeO2-Ni/C-1. After normalized by the mass of Ni based on the ICP-AES result (48.7 wt.%), the mass activity of CeO2-Ni/C-1 is measured to be 8.48 mA mgNi-1 at 50 mV, which is much inferior to that of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 but higher than that of Ni/C. The exchange current density could be calculated according to the Butler–Volmer equation (Eq.2), as depicted in Figure 3e. After normalized by *ECSA* (Figure S13) , the *j 0,s* value of CeO2-Ni/C-1 is calculated to be about 0.026 mA cmNi-2 , which is also lower than that of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 but higher than that of Ni/C (Figure 3f). As expected, both the mass activity and exchange current density follow the order of CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 > CeO2-Ni/C-1 > Ni/C, further confirming the key role of oxygen vacancies in CeO2.

To further explore the role of the oxygen vacancy contained CeO2, we performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations (see Experimental section for details). The oxygen vacancy marked by blue circle is built on the surface of CeO<sup>2</sup> (denoted as CeO2(r)). Firstly, the electronic structure of this hybrid model (Figure 4a) was calculated through Lowdin charge analysis. It is clearly to see that about 1.4 e<sup>−</sup> are transferred from Ni to CeO2(r), which is consistent with the Raman and XPS results. Then, we calculated the adsorption free energies of H\* (Δ*G*H\*) on pristine Ni and CeO2(r)-Ni. As shown in Figure 4b, the active site on Ni (111) decorated by CeO2(r) possesses a more thermo-neutral *G*H\* compared to the pristine Ni (111), suggesting the much weakened HBE on Ni derived from the synergistically electronic effect of CeO2-species, which can tremendously facilitate the Volmer step for alkaline HOR.[18] On the other hand, the adsorption free energies of OH\* (Δ*G*OH\*) on Ni and CeO2(r)-Ni were also calculated. As shown in Figure 4c, CeO2(r)-Ni displays a much stronger adsorption of OH\* than Ni. Such an enhanced OH\* adsorptive behavior and oxygen vacancies contained surface structure will facilitate the capture of OH\* species on the surface of CeO2(r),[6,19] thereby accelerate the Volmer step during the alkaline HOR process via the bi-functional mechanism at the interfaces between Ni and CeO2(r) components, where adsorption of Had on Ni site and OHad on oxygen vacancies. Accordingly, as described in Figure 4d, the oxygen vacancy contained CeO<sup>2</sup> could effectively promote the OH\* adsorption strength and optimize the hydrogen adsorption free energy, supporting its enhanced HOR performance.

**Figure 4.** (a) The schematic of electron transfer between CeO2(r) and Ni in layered CeO2(r)-Ni hybrid model. (b) The calculated H adsorption free energies on Ni and CeO2(r)-Ni hybrid. (c) The calculated OH adsorption free energies on Ni and CeO2(r)-Ni hybrid. (d) The 2 D schematic illustration of catalytic roles of the oxygen vacancy contained CeO<sup>2</sup> during the HOR process.

In conclusion, a series of oxygen vacancy-rich CeO2/Ni heterostructure have been designed toward accelerated the HOR kinetics in alkaline electrolyte. Thanks to the synergistically electronic effect between CeO<sup>2</sup> and Ni, as well as the plenty of oxygen vacancies in CeO2, the as-obtained CeO2(r)-Ni/C-1 hybrid exhibits remarkable HOR performance in 0.1 M KOH, with the exchange current density and mass activity of 0.038 mA cm-2 and 12.28 mA mg-1 , respectively, which is higher than most of the documented PGM-free catalysts. DFT calculations reveal that the enhanced HOR performance are attributed to the promoted OH\* adsorption strength and optimal Δ*G*H\* derived from synergistic effect between oxygen vacancy contained CeO<sup>2</sup> and Ni species. Our results show that the oxygen vacancies at the surface of the oxophilic species in the catalyst play a key role in accelerating HOR kinetics in alkaline media, which provides a facile strategy for designing PGM-free catalysts toward alkaline fuel cells and beyond.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21571145, 21633008, 21832004), National Key Research and Development Program of China (2018YFB1502302). The DFT calculations in this work have been done on the supercomputing system in the Supercomputing Center of Wuhan University.

**Keywords:** hydrogen oxidation reaction • Ni • CeO<sup>2</sup> • oxygen vacancy • bi-functional mechanism

- [1] a) M. Z. Jacobson, W. G. Colella, D. M. Golden, *Science* **2005**, *308*, 1991-1995; b) O. Z. Sharaf, M. F. Orhan, *Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev.* **2014**, *32*, 810-853; c) Y. Wang, K. S. Chen, J. Mishler, S. C. Cho, X. C. Adroher, *Appl. Energy* **2011**, *88*, 981-1007.
- [2] a) H. A. Gasteiger, N. M. Markovic, *Science* **2009**, *324*, 48-49; b) B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020-1025; c) Z. F. Pan, L. An, T. S. Zhao, Z. K. Tang, *Prog. Energy Combust. Sci.* **2018**, *66*, 141-175.
- [3] a) W. Sheng, H. A. Gasteiger, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2010**, *157*, B1529-B1536; b) J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasche, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255-2260.

- [4] a) Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141; b) F. Yang, X. Bao, Y. Zhao, X. Wang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 10936- 10941; c) W. Sheng, A. P. Bivens, M. Myint, Z. Zhuang, R. V. Forest, Q. Fang, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 1719-1724; d) O. V. Cherstiouk, P. A. Simonov, A. G. Oshchepkov, V. I. Zaikovskii, T. Y. Kardash, A. Bonnefont, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2016**, *783*, 146-151; e) W. Ni, A. Krammer, C. –S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, A. Schugler, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, 7523-7527; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 7445-7449; f) A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, S. N. Pronkin, O. V. Cherstiouk, C. Ulhaq-Bouillet, V. Papaefthimiou, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *402*, 447-452; g) Y. Yang, X. Sun, G. Han, X. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, 10754-10759; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10644-10649; h) L. Gao, Y. Wang, H. Li, Q. Li, N. Ta, L. Zhuang, Q. Fu and X. Bao, *Chem. Sci.* **2017**, *8*, 5728-5734.
- [5] a) Y. Cong, B. Yi, Y. Song, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *44*, 288-303; b) E. S. Davydova, S. Mukerjee, F. Jaouen, D. R. Dekel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 6665-6690.
- [6] a) D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300-306; b) M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 255- 256.
- [7] a) X. Chen, I. T. McCrum, K. A. Schwarz, M. J. Janik, M. T. Koper, *Angew. Chem.* **2017**, *129*, 15221-15225; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15025-15029; b) I. Ledezma-Yanez, W. D. Z. Wallace, P. Sebastian-Pascual, V. Climent, J. M. Feliu, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Energy* **2017**, *2*, 17031.
- [8] E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232-3239.
- [9] a) A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, V. A. Saveleva, V. Papaefthimiou, S. Zafeiratos, S. N. Pronkin, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *Top. Catal.* **2016**, *59*, 1319-1331; b) A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *269*, 111-118.
- [10] D. Floner, C. Lamy, J. M. Leger, *Surf. Sci.* **1990**, *234*, 87-97.
- [11] a) C. Xu, Z. Tian, P. Shen, S. P. Jiang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2008**, *53*, 2610- 2618; b) H. A. Miller, A. Lavacchi, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, F. Di Benedetto, F. D'Acapito, Y. Paska, M. Page, D. R. Dekel, *Angew. Chem.* **2016**, *128*, 6108-6111; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6004-6007.
- [12] a) B. Beden, D. Floner, J. M. Leger, C. Lamy, *Surf. Sci.* **1985**, *162*, 822- 829; b) S. A. S. Machado, L. A. Avaca, *Electrochim. Acta* **1994**, *39*, 1385- 1391.
- [13] a) E. S. Davydova, F. D. Speck, M. T.Y. Paul, D. R. Dekel, S. Cherevko, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6837-6845; b) D. S. Hall, C. Bock, B. R. MacDougall, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2013**, *160*, F235-F243.
- [14] a) T. Taniguchi, T. Watanabe, N. Sugiyama, A. K. Subramani, H. Wagata, N. Matsushita, M. Yoshimura, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2009**, *113*, 19789- 19793; b) S. Chang, M. Li, Q. Hua, L. Zhang, Y. Ma, B. Ye, W. Huang, *J. Catal.* **2012**, *293*, 195-204; c) M. Guo, J. Lu, Y. Wu, Y. Wang, M. Luo, *Langmuir* **2011**, *27*, 3872-3877.
- [15] L. M. Malard, M. A. Pimenta, G. Dresselhaus, M. S. Dresselhaus, *Phys. Rep.* **2009**, *473*, 51-87.
- [16] N. Mironova-Ulmane, A. Kuzmin, I. Steins, J. Grabis, I. Sildos, M. Pärs, *J. Phys.: Conf. Ser.* **2007**, *93*, 012039.
- [17] a) J. C. Dupin, D. Gonbeau, P. Vinatier, A. Levasseur, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2000**, *2*, 1319-1324; b) X. Wang, Y. Yang, L. Diao, Y. Tang, F. He, E. Liu, C. He, C. Shi, J. Li, J. Sha, S. Ji, P. Zhang, L. Ma, N. Zhao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 35145-35153; c) H. A. E. Dole, L. F. Safady, S. Ntais, M. Couillard, E.A. Baranova, *J. Catal.* **2014**, *318*, 85- 94.
- [18] a) J. K. Norskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, J. R. Kitchin, J. G. Chen, S. Pandelov, U. Stimming, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2005**, *152*, J23-J26; b) W. Sheng, M. Myint, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 1509- 1512.
- [19] X. P. Wu, X. Q. Gong, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2016**, *116*, 086102.

#### **Entry for the Table of Contents** (Please choose one layout)

#### Layout 1:

#### COMMUNICATION

Oxygen vacancy-rich CeO2/Ni heterostructure have been designed toward accelerated the HOR kinetics in alkaline electrolyte by the promoted OH\* adsorption strength and optimal H\* adsorption strength from the oxygen vacancy-rich CeO2.

*Fulin Yang,† Xi Bao, † Peng Li, † Xuewei Wang, Gongzhen Cheng, Shengli Chen,\* and Wei Luo\**

*Page No. – Page No.*

**Boosting Hydrogen Oxidation Activity of Ni in Alkaline Media through Oxygen Vacancy-Rich CeO2/Ni Heterostructures**