---
source: Yu 等 - 2024 - Optimizing Nickel Orbital Occupancy via Co‐Modulation of Core and Shell Structures to Accelerate Alk.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 17.984s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:37:33.256532Z
---

**[www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

# **Optimizing Nickel Orbital Occupancy via Co-Modulation of Core and Shell Structures to Accelerate Alkaline Hydrogen Electro-Oxidation Reaction**

*Wanqing Yu, Jing Liu,\* Hao Hu, Zeyu He, Xuejing Cui, and Luhua Jiang\**

**Nickel-based catalysts are recognized as a promising alternative to platinum-based catalysts for the alkaline hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) yet suffer from poor stability and relatively low activity. Herein, a nitrogen ligand-assisted approach is reported to encapsulate nickel-copper nanoparticles within few carbon layers, and by modulating the core and shell components/structure, the charge distribution in the nanostructures can be finely regulated. The optimized Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst exhibits outstanding HOR activity with an intrinsic activity of 61.0 μA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and excellent stability, which is among the most advanced Ni-based HOR catalysts. Notably, an alkaline exchange membrane fuel cell utilizing this catalyst achieves a peak power density of 381 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and maintains stability at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for over 24 h. Experimental and theoretical investigations unveil that the electron re-distribution at the interface of NiCu core and nitrogen-doped carbon reduces the electron occupancy in Ni 4***s***-H 1***s* **bonding orbitals and Ni 3***d***z2/yz-O 2***p* **antibonding orbitals, leading to a weakened hydrogen binding energy and enhance hydroxide binding energy. Consequently, the limiting energy for the HOR is reduced following a bifunctional mechanism on the Ni93Cu7@NC. This work provides a core-shell co-modulation strategy to accurately regulate the electronic structure of transition metals to design robust catalysts.**

# **1. Introduction**

A fuel cell is an electrochemical reaction device that converts hydrogen energy directly into electrical energy. It offers high theoretical energy density, impressive power generation efficiency, and is environmentally friendly. These advantages have led to its widespread applications in aerospace and vehicles.[\[1\]](#page-9-0) Recent advancements in highly conductive and stable hydroxide ion-exchange membranes have sparked increasing research interest in hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells based on anion-exchange membranes.[\[2\]](#page-9-0) A notable feature of this technology lies in its

W. Yu, J. Liu, H. Hu, Z. He, X. Cui, L. Jiang College of Materials Science & Engineering Qingdao University of Science & Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

E-mail: [liuj955@qust.edu.cn;](mailto:liuj955@qust.edu.cn) [luhuajiang@qust.edu.cn](mailto:luhuajiang@qust.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202315062>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202315062**

low-corrosion working environment, enabling the utilization of non-precious metal electrocatalysts. This is expected to fundamentally alleviate the dependence of fuel cells on platinum-based precious metal catalysts, thereby significantly reducing the overall cost of fuel cells. For cathode oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), platinumfree metal catalysts such as single atomic catalysts and transition metal oxides have shown comparable performance to platinum (Pt) group metals.[\[3\]](#page-9-0) However, the kinetics of the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline electrolytes is notably slower.[\[4\]](#page-9-0) Even on platinum surfaces, the exchange current density for alkaline HOR is 0.1–1.0 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is two orders of magnitude lower than in acidic electrolytes. Therefore, the development of low-cost, highly active, and stable HOR electrocatalysts is crucial for advancing the practical application of Anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs).

Nickel (Ni), with the merits of abundant reserves, low cost, and strong adsorption of hydrogen, is regarded as a potent alternative to Pt catalysts.[\[5\]](#page-9-0) However, the HOR activity and stability of Ni are still far from

satisfactory for practical applications. According to the prevailing theories of hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and hydroxide binding energy (OHBE) for HOR in the alkaline media, various strategies including foreign-atom doping, heterogeneous interface, and support effects have been explored to improve the activity of Ni-based catalysts. These strategies aim to weaken the excessive hydrogen adsorption on Ni surfaces or to balance HBE while enhancing OHBE.[\[6\]](#page-9-0) Among these, Ni-alloys have garnered considerable attention due to their enhanced electrocatalytic activity endowed by ligand effect, ensemble effect, strain effect, and tunable d-band energy level.[\[7\]](#page-9-0) Copper (Cu), in particular, is a promising foreign metal to boost the HOR activity of Ni, leveraging the compromise between the stronger hydrogen binding energy (HBE) of Ni and the weaker HBE of Cu, alongside high anti-corrosive properties of Cu.[\[8\]](#page-9-0) However, surface segregation of Cu in NiCu alloys, especially at nano and sub-nano levels, can hinder electrocatalytic performance and stability due to the lower surface energy of Cu (1.83 J m<sup>−</sup>2) than Ni (2.45 J m<sup>−</sup>2). Therefore, maintaining a homogenous composition and robust interface of

**Figure 1.** a) Illustration of orbitals coupling between Ni and H, O. b) Schematic diagram of charge distribution on NiCu@NC. c) Schematic diagram of reduced -bonding occupancy and \* antibonding orbitals for weakened HBE and strengthened OHBE.

the Ni–Cu binary system is desirable for further improving HOR performance.

Addressing the stability issue of the Ni catalysts, encapsulating transitional metal nanoparticles (NPs) within a protective porous carbon shell is a promising approach.[\[9\]](#page-9-0) Ni nanoparticles encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon shell (Ni@CNx) have shown significantly enhanced durability and activity, owing to that the CNx coating layer reduces the HBE and improves the anti-oxidation ability of Ni.[\[10\]](#page-9-0) Further study suggests that lowering the carbon nanoshell thickness can notably increase HOR activity.[\[11\]](#page-9-0) Inspired by these findings, fabrication of Ni–Cu binary nanoparticles in a thin N-doped carbon shell offers a significant opportunity for not only improving the stability but also enhancing the activity of catalysts through co-modulation of core and shell structures.

As depicted in **Figure 1**, the molecular orbitals formed between Ni atom and intermediates of H and O species are illustrated. The ground state electronic configuration of Ni<sup>0</sup> is 3d84s2. However, when it interacts with adsorbates, it undergoes excitation to the 3d104s0 state. Notably, the electron filling of low-lying bonding orbitals results in a strong hydrogen binding energy (HBE), while fully occupied \* antibonding orbitals contribute to a weak oxygen-hydrogen binding energy (OHBE) (Figure 1a), which thereby leads to poor HOR activity. To modulate the electron redistribution between the Ni–Cu core and the nitrogendoped carbon shell, we anticipate a reduction in electron occupation on the Ni site. This aims to destabilize the strong HBE by minimizing the occupation of bonding orbitals and, simultaneously, stabilize the OHBE by reducing the filling of \* antibonding orbitals (Figure 1b,c). However, conventional carbon coating methods, such as pyrolysis of a metal–organic framework, chemical vapor deposition (CVD), or polymer-coated nanoparticle complexes, often fall short in achieving a precise and controllable synthesis of both the core and the carbon shell structures simultaneously.[\[12\]](#page-9-0)

Herein, we proposed a novel strategy based on the lowtemperature carbonization of in situ nanoparticle-ligand assembles. This innovative approach enables the controlled synthesis of nitrogen-doped carbon shell-encapsulated NiCu nanoparticles. The resulting Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst, featuring a heterostructure of Ni and intermetallic Cu3.8Ni in the core and a 1 nm shell in thickness, exhibits remarkable HOR activity with an intrinsic activity of 61.0 μA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Moreover, it demonstrates excellent stability during an accelerated degradation test and chronoamperometry test, ranking it among the most advanced Ni-based HOR catalysts. When applied in the AEMFC, the fuel cell could deliver a peak power density as high as 381 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, showing robust durability. Further, a combination of experimental and theoretical studies contributes to a profound understanding of the origin of the enhanced HOR performance.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Catalyst Preparation and Characterization**

The synthesis of nitrogen-doped carbon-encapsulated NixCuy nanoparticles is illustrated in **Figure 2**[a.](#page-2-0) First, NixCuy colloids with sodium citrate as a capping ligand were produced using

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Synthesis of NixCuy@NC. b) TEM image and the particle size distribution (inset). c) HRTEM image. d) Enlarged view of the selected area of (c). e) HAADF-STEM images of Ni93Cu7@NC. Elemental mapping of f) mixed, g) C, h) Ni, i) Cu, j) N, and k) O.

a modified polyol reduction method.[\[11\]](#page-9-0) Subsequently, dicyandiamide, serving as both a nitrogen ligand, and a carbon source, was introduced to chelate with NixCuy nanoparticles in situ, followed by pyrolysis to form a nitrogen-doped carbon shell. Figure 2b presents a representative transmission electron microscope (TEM) image of Ni93Cu7@NC, showing pomegranate-like ensembles of NiCu nanoparticles, each with an average diameter of 9.1 nm, encapsulated in carbon shells. High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image (Figure 2c) reveals that the carbon shell is ≈1 nm in thickness, and the NiCu nanoparticle core exhibits numerous interfaces between adjacent grains. In the enlarged view of the selected area, the lattice spacings of 0.211 and 0.171 nm are identified, corresponding to the (111) plane of intermetallic Cu3.8Ni and the (200) plane of Ni, respectively (Figure 2d).[\[13\]](#page-9-0) High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (HADDF-STEM) images and elemental mapping images (Figure 2e–k) confirm the core-shell structure of the carbon-encapsulated NixCuy nanoparticles and reveal a uniform distribution of Ni and Cu. The Ni and Cu content in the catalyst, as determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), is ≈53.09 and 3.69 wt.% respectively (Table S1, Supporting Information). For comparison, a Ni nanoparticle with a nitrogen-doped carbon coating layer (denoted as Ni@NC) was also synthesized using a similar method. The TEM and HRTEM images of Ni@NC, shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), display a similar pomegranate-like ensemble of core-shell structure.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of Ni93Cu7@NC, illustrated in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-3-0) validates the coexistence of face-centered cubic (fcc) Ni and intermetallic Cu3.8Ni phases. Compared to Ni@NC, distinctive diffraction peaks at 44.5°, 51.8°, and 76.4° correspond to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of fcc-Ni. Concurrently, peaks at 43.5°, 50.8°, and 74.7° arise from the intermetallic Cu3.8Ni phase, affirming the coexistence of these structures within the Ni93Cu7@NC sample.[\[14\]](#page-9-0) This is consistent with the results of HRTEM images, verifying the heterostructure of Ni and intermetallic Cu3.8Ni in the Ni93Cu7@NC sample. In contrast, Ni93Cu7 without carbon coating displays a distinct separation of Cu and Ni phases, accompanied by sharp diffraction peaks. This discrepancy suggests that the carbon coating plays a pivotal role in shaping the unique core-shell structure observed in Ni93Cu7@NC.

The surface elemental composition and chemical states of the composites were further analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS survey of the Ni93Cu7@NC sample, as depicted in Figure [3b](#page-3-0) and detailed in Table S2 (Supporting Information), indicates the coexistence of Cu, Ni, C, O, and N elements. In comparison, Ni@NC contains all of the aforementioned elements except for Cu (Table S3, Supporting Information). Notably, the surface atomic ratio of Ni to Cu is found to be 94:6, closely resembling the bulk Ni/Cu atomic ratio estimated by ICP-OES. This result implies a uniform distribution of Ni and Cu without segregation at the surface. Examining the highresolution Ni 2p XPS spectra in Figure [3c,](#page-3-0) both Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC samples exhibit three components centered at 852.5, 854.3, and 856.0 eV, corresponding to Ni0, Ni2<sup>+</sup>─O, Ni2<sup>+</sup>─OH, respectively.[\[15\]](#page-9-0) A noteworthy shift of 0.3 eV to higher binding energy in the Ni<sup>0</sup> peaks of Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC, compared to Ni93Cu7 (Table S4, Supporting Information), suggests electron donation from the metallic core nanoparticles to the carbon

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) XRD. b) The survey XPS spectra. c) High-resolution Ni 2p and d) N 1s XPS spectra. e) High-resolution Cu 2p XPS spectra. f) UPS valenceband spectra. g) Normalized Ni K-edge XANES spectra. h) Normalized Cu K-edge XANES spectra. i) The Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra.

coating layer. Further integration of peak areas reveals a higher relative Ni<sup>0</sup> content in the Ni93Cu7@NC sample (17.2%) compared to Ni@NC (10.4%) and Ni93Cu7 (13.2%), indicative of robust antioxidation properties (Table S5, Supporting Information).

In Figure 3d, the high-resolution N1s XPS peak of both Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC samples show a single peak at 399.0 eV, attributed to pyridinic nitrogen-doping in the carbon coating layers.[\[16\]](#page-9-0) The high-resolution Cu 2p XPS spectra, illustrated in Figure 3e, are fitted with spin-orbital doublet components of Cu 2p3/2 and Cu 2p1/2 located at 932.8 and 952.7 eV.[\[17\]](#page-9-0) Figure 3f displays the ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) results for Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC, showing maximum values in the valence band spectra at ≈0.41 eV for Ni@NC and 0.47 eV for Ni93Cu7@NC. The observed shift of the valence band away from the Fermi level suggests alterations in electronic structure. As the valence electrons near the Fermi level primarily contribute to the d states, this shift indicates a corresponding change in the d-band center of Ni93Cu7@NC compared to Ni@NC.[\[18\]](#page-9-0)

To delve into the local electronic and atomic structure of the samples, the X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) measurements were conducted. Figure 3g presents the X-ray absorption near-edge structure spectrum (XANES) of Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC at Ni K-edge along with references of NiO and Ni foil. The binding energy of the Ni-K-edge in both Ni93Cu7@NC and

ence but significantly deviates from the NiO reference. This observation strongly suggests that the nickel in the samples exists in a metallic state. Upon closer examination, the enlarged view reveals a distinctive trend in the absorption edge position: Ni93Cu7@NC *>* Ni@NC *>* Ni foil. This shift indicates that the nickel sites in Ni93Cu7@NC are partially positively charged compared to Ni@NC.[\[19\]](#page-9-0) In Figure [3h,](#page-3-0) the XANES of Ni93Cu7@NC at Cu K-edge aligns with Cu foil but slightly shifts to lower binding energy, indicating the metallic nature of Cu with partly negative charges.[\[20\]](#page-9-0) Combining all XANES spectral fingerprints and XPS results, it is evident that Ni93Cu7@NC predominantly exists in the metallic form of Ni and Cu, with Ni exhibiting partial positive charges and Cu displaying negative charges. Simultaneously, there is electron transfer from the Ni93Cu7 nanoparticles in the core to the carbon shell, signifying a strengthened metal-support interaction (SMSI).[\[21\]](#page-9-0)

Ni@NC samples closely aligns with that of the Ni foil refer-

To discern the local chemical configurations around Ni sites, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra were obtained. Figure [3i](#page-3-0) shows the Fourier-transformed (FT) Ni-Kedge EXAFS oscillation of the samples. It can be found that Ni93Cu7@NC has a similar FT-curve to Ni@NC, with a prominent peak at 2.1 Å corresponding to the Ni–Ni/Cu path.[\[22\]](#page-9-0) The Ni-K-edge EXAFS fittings show a decrease in the first-shell Ni– Ni (Cu) coordination number from 12 for Ni foil to 2.5 ± 0.7 for Ni93Cu7@NC, even *<*4.7 ± 1.3 for Ni@NC (Table S6, Supporting Information). Additionally, the Ni–Ni distance is slightly shortened in Ni93Cu7@NC compared to Ni@NC, attributed to the incorporation of Cu atoms with smaller atomic radius in Ni lattice. These low-coordination Ni sites in Ni93Cu7@NC are attributed to abundant interfaces, most likely leading to an upward shift of the local d-band center and facilitating enhanced adsorption.[\[23\]](#page-9-0)

#### **2.2. Catalytic Performance Toward the HOR**

The electrocatalytic HOR activity of Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst was evaluated using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, and compared with Ni@NC and a commercial Pt/C catalyst (10 wt.%, Fuel Cell Store). **Figure [4](#page-5-0)**a displays the HOR polarization curves at a rotating rate of 2500 rpm, with each catalyst applied to the glassy carbon electrode with a loading of 255 μgcat cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> geo. As seen, the HOR current density of the Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst is higher than that of Ni@NC at any given potential and approaches to the performance of the commercial Pt/C catalyst, especially at a high catalyst loading (510 μgcat cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> geo, denoted as Ni93Cu7@NC(H) in Figure [4a\)](#page-5-0). Figure [4b](#page-5-0) demonstrates the rotating rate-dependent HOR current density of the Ni93Cu7@NC. A linear relationship between the j<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at the overpotential (ƞ) of 50 mV and <sup>−</sup>1/2 was observed, yielding a slope of 13.48 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> rpm<sup>½</sup> in good accordance with the literature.[\[24\]](#page-9-0) The kinetic current density is estimated to be 4.1 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Ni93Cu7@NC, and 3.2 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Ni@NC (Figures S2 and S3, Supporting Information). When normalized to the mass of Ni, the mass activity of Ni93Cu7@NC is calculated to be 36.6 A g<sup>−</sup>1, which is much higher than that of Ni@NC (22.4 A g<sup>−</sup>1). Further, the linear scanning voltammetry curves of the three catalysts within the potential window from −0.1 to 0.1 VRHE are tested and shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information). The corresponding Tafel plots are derived after correcting the HOR branch with the K–L equation (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0). The geometric exchange current density (j0) is then estimated using the Bulter–Volmer equation, yielding values of 2.02, 1.40, and 1.90 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Ni93Cu7@NC, Ni@NC, and Pt/C, respectively. After conversion to the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) (Figure S5, Supporting Information), the specific exchange current density, which represents the intrinsic activity of the catalyst, was determined.[\[4,25\]](#page-9-0) The NixCuy@NC catalysts, with varying amounts of Cu, were synthesized using the similar method for comparison, denoted as Ni96Cu4@NC, Ni90Cu10@NC, Ni87Cu13@NC and Ni1Cu1@NC. For the former three samples, XRD patterns (Figure S6, Supporting Information) reveal that the crystalline structure of the samples consists of both fcc-Ni and intermetallic Cu3.8Ni. Notably, the content of intermetallic Cu3.8Ni in the samples increases as Cu content increases. In the case of Ni1Cu1@NC with higher Cu content, distinct diffraction peaks corresponding to Cu (111) and Cu (200) were observed. Furthermore, the diffraction peaks belonging to Ni shifted to a lower position, indicating the formation of NiCu alloys in this sample. Subsequently, the HOR catalytic activity of NixCuy@NC catalysts were assessed in a H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (Figures S7 and S8, Supporting Information). Ni93Cu7@NC exhibits a superior intrinsic HOR activity. It can be concluded that the Cu3.8Ni phase is not highly active for the HOR, as with an increase of the Cu3.8Ni content, the HOR activity decreases. The incorporation of optimized Cu3.8Ni can induce charge redistribution within the metallic core, leading to enhanced interaction with the carbon shell. We speculate that the improved SMSI might contribute to a more favorable electro-occupancy for the catalyst-intermediate orbitals, resulting in optimized intermediates adsorption of the catalyst, which is later verified by theoretical calculations. As shown in Figure [4d,](#page-5-0) the specific activity of Ni93Cu7@NC reached a remarkable 61.0 μA cm<sup>−</sup>2, outperforming Ni@NC and ranking among the top Ni-based HOR catalysts (Figure [4h;](#page-5-0) Table S7, Supporting Information).[\[5b,11,26\]](#page-9-0)

The synthetic conditions including pyrolysis temperature, nitrogen doping as well as the carbon layer thickness were optimized in this study. To investigate the pyrolysis process, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) of the Ni93Cu7@NC precursor was conducted. As shown in Figure S9 (Supporting Information), the first stage of weight loss occurs before 295 °C due to the loss of coordinated water and organic ligands. The second stage of weight loss occurs before 360 °C, which can be assigned to the carbonization process. To determine the optimal pyrolysis temperature, samples were synthesized at different annealing temperatures of 360, 370, and 380 °C. Subsequent electrochemical HOR activity testing (Figures S10 and S11, Supporting Information) revealed that the catalyst exhibited the best HOR activity at a pyrolysis temperature of 370 °C, and which was selected as the target pyrolysis temperature. To investigate the effect of nitrogen doping on the catalytic activity, we prepared Ni93Cu7@C catalyst without introducing an N source. As depicted in Figure S12 (Supporting Information), the undoped N sample exhibits much lower HOR catalytic activity than Ni93Cu7@NC. To investigate the impact of shell thickness on catalytic performance, we optimized the thickness of carbon shell layers by varying the amount of sodium citrate. High-resolution transmission

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** HOR performance. a) HOR polarization curves of Ni93Cu7@NC, Ni93Cu7@NC (H), Ni@NC, Ni93Cu7 and Pt/C in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> at a rotating rate of 2500 rpm. b) HOR polarization curves on Ni93Cu7@NC at different rotating rates. c) Tafel plots. d) Kinetics current densities normalized by metal mass at 50 mVRHE and exchange current densities normalized by ECSA. e) HOR polarization curves on Ni93Cu7@NC, Ni@NC, and Pt/C in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH with and without the presence of 100 ppm CO. f) HOR polarization curves in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a rotating rate of 2500 rpm with a scan rate of 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> at initial and after 1000, 2000, and 3000 CV cycles. g) Chronoamperometry responses collected on Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC catalysts in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at an overpotential of 100 mV. h) Comparison of the mass activity (jk,m) and the ECSA-normalized activity (j0,s) at an overpotential of 50 mV with the state-of-the-art Ni-based catalysts.

electron microscopy (HRTEM) analysis (Figure S13, Supporting Information) reveals that Ni@NC-1 (0.6 nm) with a much thinner thickness than Ni@NC (1 nm), but some particles are not well-capsulated. Ni@NC-2 synthesized with increased sodium citrate, exhibits a thicker carbon shell of ≈1.6 nm. The HOR polarization curves (Figure S14, Supporting Information) indicate that Ni@NC exhibits superior HOR activity, evident from its higher current density at given potentials. Thus, Ni@NC with a carbon layer thickness of 1.0 nm emerges as the control HOR catalyst in this work.

Furthermore, the CO-resistant ability of the catalysts was assessed in the 0.1 M KOH electrolyte saturated with H2 containing 100 ppm CO. As shown in Figure 4e, both Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC demonstrate improved resistance to CO poisoning compared to the Pt/C catalyst. When exposed to 100 ppm CO, the HOR current density of the Ni@NC catalyst decreased by 6% at 0.1 VRHE, compared to the 15.8% reduction observed for Pt/C. In contrast, Ni93Cu7@NC exhibits nearly identical activity with the Pt/C catalyst, with the HOR polarization curve closely overlapping the original curve measured in high-purity H2. This underscores the exceptional resistance to CO poisoning of Ni93Cu7@NC and which could be contributed to the synergic effect of carbon shell protection as well as the NiCu core. The electrochemical stability of Ni93Cu7@NC toward HOR was evaluated by an accelerated degradation test (ADT) conducted between −0.25 and 0.1 VRHE with a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. From the HOR

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. AEMFC performance. a) Discharging curves and power density curves of the AEMFCs with Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC as the anode catalyst. Anode metal loading: 1.3 mg<sub>Ni</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> for Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC; Cathode metal loading: 0.4 mg<sub>Pt</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup>. The cell is operated at 80 °C. The anode is fed with 100% humidified  $H_2$  at 1000 mL min<sup>-1</sup>. The cathode is fed with 100% humidified  $O_2$  at 2000 mL min<sup>-1</sup>. The back pressure of both sides is kept the same. b) The dynamic voltage curves respond to different current densities of 0-10-20-50-100-200-100-50-20-10-0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. c) Galvanic discharging at current densities of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 24 h. d) Comparison of the performance of Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC-based AEMFC with literature with Ni-based catalysts.

polarization curves in Figure 4f, Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC retained 80.8% of the current after 3000 cycles, while the Ni@NC catalyst retained only 41.2% of the current (Figure S15, Supporting Information), indicating the superior stability of the Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC catalyst. This high stability was further confirmed by the chronoamperometric curve recorded at 0.1 V<sub>RHE</sub>, demonstrating that Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC maintained 91.0% of its initial HOR current density at the end of the test (Figure 4g). After the ADT testing, Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC and Ni@NC catalyst powders were collected and physically characterized. XRD patterns confirmed the well-preserved crystalline structure of both catalysts (Figure \$16, Supporting Information), and HRTEM images of the core-shell structure of nitrogen-doped carbon-encapsulated nanoparticles remain very well during the HOR electrocatalysis (Figure \$17, Supporting Information). Additionally, the surface composition of the catalyst after ADT was analyzed by XPS. As revealed in the high resolution of Ni 2p XPS spectra (Figure \$18, Supporting Information), the active Ni

component in Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC keeps higher compared to the aged Ni@NC catalyst, suggesting the carbon layer protects the metallic Ni against oxidation.

#### 2.3. AEMFC Single-Cell Performance

A membrane electrode assembly (MEA) was assembled and tested to evaluate the potential applicability of Ni<sub>03</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC as an anodic catalyst in AEMFC. In Figure 5a, the discharge and power density curves depict the performance. The AEMFC with the Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC anode exhibits a high open circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.05 V and achieves a peak power density of 288 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at a backpressure of 200 kPa, and 381 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at a backpressure of 250 kPa. To evaluate Ni<sub>93</sub>Cu<sub>7</sub>@NC under dynamic AEMFC operation, a multistage discharging protocol is executed (Figure 5b), demonstrating a generally stable voltage response

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Ni93Cu7@NC in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M KOH + 5 mM KSCN, and fresh 0.1 M KOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> at a rotating rate of 2500 rpm. b) Ni93Cu7@NC in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M KOH + 5 mM LiOH, and 0.1 M LiOH with a scan rate of 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> at a rotating rate of 2500 rpm. c) CO-stripping measurements on the Ni93Cu7@NC catalysts. d) The side views of charge density difference at the interface of Ni93Cu7@NC. The cyan region reflects an electron-deficient state, while the yellow region reflects an electron-rich area. e) Calculated COHP analysis of Ni─H and Ni−O(H) bond. Ef means Fermi energy. f) The calculated H and OH adsorption-free energies on Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC. g) Free energy diagram of HOR reaction pathways on Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC.

during varied galvanic discharges. Furthermore, Figure [5c](#page-6-0) shows the Ni93Cu7@NC-based cell galvanically discharged at current densities of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for over 24 h. At the end of the test, the voltage loss is as low as 5%, confirming the excellent stability of Ni93Cu7@NC under AEMFC operations. As displayed in Figure [5d,](#page-6-0) the AEMFC based on Ni93Cu7@NC shows the most cutting-edge performance as compared to those documented in the literature.[\[8,10,11,24b,26c,j,27\]](#page-9-0) The outstanding HOR performance of Ni93Cu7@NC, as demonstrated in both the three-electrode test and MEA measurement, unequivocally underscores its substantial promise for applications in AEMFC.

#### **2.4. Understanding of the Catalytic Mechanism**

To get an insightful understanding of the origin of Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst in promoting the HOR, a combination of experimental and theoretical investigations was carried out. First, to identify the active sites where the HOR occurs, SCN<sup>−</sup> was employed as a probe molecular for poisoning metal sites. The HOR polarization curves before and after the introduction of SCN<sup>−</sup> in the electrolyte are displayed in **Figure 6**a. It is clear that the presence of SCN<sup>−</sup> leads to a reduction in the HOR current density by up to 70.9% at 0.1 VRHE (Figure S19, Supporting Information). Notably, the activity degradation could not be restored by refreshing the electrolyte. The SCN<sup>−</sup>-poisoning experiment suggests that the metal core serves as the primary active site for the HOR. To support this assertion, Ni93Cu7@NC underwent acid etching in 2 M HCl for 24 h to remove the metal cores. The TEM image in Figure S20 (Supporting Information) shows that the majority of the metal nanoparticles have been etched away, leaving holes in the carbon. Figure S21a (Supporting Information) depicts the base CV curve of the acid-etched sample, which shows no distinctive redox peaks attributed to Ni.[\[28\]](#page-10-0) Furthermore, there is no observed

activity on the HOR curve (Figure S21b, Supporting Information). These findings strongly suggest that the metal in the core serves as the active site of the Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst for the HOR.

In the quest to determine whether the HBE solely governs the HOR on the Ni93Cu7@NC, the effect of alkaline metal cations (AM<sup>+</sup>) on the HOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) was investigated. The HOR/HER polarization curves were measured in alkaline electrolytes with different metal cations (i.e., 0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M LiOH) and varied concentrations (i.e., 0.1 M KOH + 5 mM LiOH) in Figure [6b.](#page-7-0) Notably, the HOR/HER activity in LiOH electrolyte is higher than in KOH. The refined HBE theory may explain this difference in activity since K<sup>+</sup> weakens the H2O binding to the catalyst *>*Li<sup>+</sup>. [\[29\]](#page-10-0) However, the concentration of AM<sup>+</sup> induces a selective increase but a decrease in HOR on Ni93Cu7@NC. This contradicts the expectation that H2O binding to the catalyst diminishes with increasing AM<sup>+</sup> concentration, suggesting that HBE theory alone cannot explain this phenomenon. This finding is consistent with Jia et al. research on the catalyst systems Pt/C, PtNi/C, and Ni/C, indicating that the OHad plays an important role alongside Had in the HOR.[\[6b\]](#page-9-0) Subsequently, CO stripping was performed as the probe for the OHad adsorption on the Ni93Cu7@NC, and compared with Ni@NC. The CO stripping voltammetry curve in Figure [6c](#page-7-0) reveals that the COad oxidation peak on Ni93Cu7@NC is at 0.57 VRHE, which is 33 mV lower than that on Ni@NC. The result suggests that the OHBE is strengthened on Ni93Cu7@NC.

Moreover, the electronic modulation of Ni93Cu7@NC and its effect on the HOR catalytic activity is also understood by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. According to the experimental results, the theoretical model of Ni93Cu7@NC is simply established as Cu doped Ni (111) surface with one overlayer of pyridinic nitrogen-doped graphene (N-Gr). We selected the Ni (111) surface for our DFT calculations because it is known to be the most stable crystal face for nickel. The XRD patterns and HRTEM images of Ni93Cu7@NC (Figure S22, Supporting Information) serve as evidence for the presence of the Ni (111) crystal plane. For comparison, the Ni@NC catalyst is represented by an N-Gr overlayed Ni (111) surface (Figure S23, Supporting Information). In Figure [6d,](#page-7-0) it is observed that a redistribution of charge density occurs at the interface between the metal and the N-doped graphene layer, as well as between Ni and Cu atoms. Charges enrichment from the metal to the graphene layer is evidenced, with a substantial accumulation of electrons between the metal and the graphene layer. Based on the Mulliken charge analysis, it is clear that 0.86 e<sup>−</sup> are transferred from NiCu to the N-Gr overlayer, which is much higher than 0.77 e<sup>−</sup> for Ni@NC, indicating a stronger SMSI in Ni93Cu7@NC (Figure S24, Supporting Information). To evaluate the effect of the charge redistribution on the binding strength between metal sites and the intermediates (H and OH species), the crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) analyses are conducted. As shown in Figure [6e,](#page-7-0) the main component of the Ni–H interaction is attributed to the contribution of *s-s* orbitals. All Ni─H bonding orbitals located below the Fermi level are fully occupied while the antibonding orbitals are completely unoccupied for both Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC. The strength of adsorption is determined by the integrated projected COHP (ICOHP), where a more negative ICOHP indicates stronger bonding.[\[30\]](#page-10-0) For Ni93Cu7@NC, the ICOHP value of Ni─H is −0.51, which is more positive than the ICOHP value of Ni-H in Ni@NC (−0.53), suggesting a weakened HBE. Regarding the interaction between Ni and O(H), bonding orbitals are fully occupied below the Fermi level while the anti-bonding orbitals are partially occupied at the Fermi level. Notably, the *d*z2-*p* and *d*yz-*p* orbitals are the primary contributors to the antibonding energy level. The calculated ICOHP value of Ni─O for Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC are −0.78 and −0.77, respectively, demonstrating that OHBE is enhanced on Ni93Cu7@NC. Furthermore, the calculated HBE and OHBE on the Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC model configurations are in good agreement with the above-predicted trends (Figure [6f;](#page-7-0) Figures S25 and S26, Supporting Information). Subsequently, the free energy diagrams of the HOR process on Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC are calculated. As illustrated in Figure [6g,](#page-7-0) for Ni93Cu7@NC and Ni@NC, the potential determining step (PDS) is H2O desorption and formation, which requires energy of 0.29 and 0.38 eV, respectively. It can be concluded that the lower PDS free energy over Ni93Cu7@NC is due to the optimal intermediate adsorption resulting from charge redistribution conferred by the co-modulation of the core and the shell structure.

# **3. Conclusion**

In conclusion, we report a controllable synthesis of a thin nitrogen-doped carbon shell-encapsulated NiCu nanoparticle via low-temperature carbonization of in situ nanoparticle-ligand assemblies. The resulting Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst, featuring a heterostructure consisting of Ni and intermetallic Cu3.8Ni in the core and a N-doped carbon shell of 1 nm in thickness, exhibits outstanding HOR activity with an intrinsic activity of 61.0 μA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and excellent stability, which is among the most advanced Ni-based HOR catalysts. As the anode catalyst of an AEMFC, the fuel cell could deliver a remarkable peak power density of 381 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2. Furthermore, the AEMFC could stably discharges at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for over 24 h. Experimental and theoretical investigations unveil that the electron re-distribution at the interface of NiCu core and nitrogen-doped carbon reduces the electron occupancy in Ni 4*s*-H 1*s* bonding orbitals and Ni 3*d*z2/yz-O 2*p* antibonding orbitals, leading to a weakened HBE and enhanced OHBE. As a result, the limiting energy for the HOR is reduced following a bifunctional mechanism on the Ni93Cu7@NC catalyst.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

The authors appreciate the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22279067, U19A2016), the Major Fundamental Research Program of Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (ZR2022ZD10), and the Taishan Scholar Program of Shandong Province (ts201712046).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# <span id="page-9-0"></span>**Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

# **Keywords**

alkaline electrolyte, core-shell structure, hydrogen oxidation reaction, orbital occupancy

> Received: November 28, 2023 Revised: January 16, 2024 Published online: February 4, 2024

- [1] a) W. Sheng, A. P. Bivens, M. Myint, Z. Zhuang, R. V. Forest, Q. Fang, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 1719; b) B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020; c) M. Z. Jacobson, W. G. Colella, D. M. Golden, *Science* **2005**, *308*, 1901.
- [2] K. C. Neyerlin, W. Gu, J. Jorne, H. A. Gasteiger, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2006**, *153*, A1955.
- [3] Y. Wang, Y. Yang, S. Jia, X. Wang, K. Lyu, Y. Peng, H. Zheng, X. Wei, H. Ren, L. Xiao, J. Wang, D. A. Muller, H. D. Abruña, B. J. Hwang, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1506.
- [4] J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255.
- [5] a) M. Wang, H. Yang, J. Shi, Y. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. Wang, S. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhong, T. Cheng, W. Zhou, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5771; b) X. Zhao, X. Li, L. An, K. Iputera, J. Zhu, P. Gao, R.-S. Liu, Z. Peng, J. Yang, D. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 1234.
- [6] a) I. T. McCrum, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 891; b) E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232; c) N. Ramaswamy, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, Q. Jia, J. Li, S. Mukerjee, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *41*, 765; d) Y. Yang, C. R. Peltier, R. Zeng, R. Schimmenti, Q. Li, X. Huang, Z. Yan, G. Potsi, R. Selhorst, X. Lu, W. Xu, M. Tader, A. V. Soudackov, H. Zhang, M. Krumov, E. Murray, P. Xu, J. Hitt, L. Xu, H.-Y. Ko, B. G. Ernst, C. Bundschu, A. Luo, D. Markovich, M. Hu, C. He, H. Wang, J. Fang, R. A. DiStasio, L. F. Kourkoutis, et al., *Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *122*, 6117.
- [7] a) G. Li, N. Wei, Y. Wang, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *610*, 155459; b) J. Wang, S. Xin, Y. Xiao, Z. Zhang, Z. Li, W. Zhang, C. Li, R. Bao, J. Peng, J. Yi, S. Chou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202202518; c) T. Tang, X. Liu, X. Luo, Z. Xue, H.-R. Pan, J. Fu, Z.-C. Yao, Z. Jiang, Z.-H. Lyu, L. Zheng, D. Su, J.-N. Zhang, L. Zhang, J.-S. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 13805.
- [8] A. Roy, M. R. Talarposhti, S. J. Normile, I. V. Zenyuk, V. De Andrade, K. Artyushkova, A. Serov, P. Atanassov, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2018**, *2*, 2268.
- [9] J. M. Yoo, H. Shin, D. Y. Chung, Y.-E. Sung, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2022**, *55*, 1278.
- [10] Y. Gao, Y. Yang, R. Schimmenti, E. Murray, H. Peng, Y. Wang, C. Ge, W. Jiang, G. Wang, F. J. DiSalvo, D. A. Muller, M. Mavrikakis, L. Xiao, H. D. Abruña, L. Zhuang, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2022**, *119*, e2119883119.
- [11] J. Wang, X. Dong, J. Liu, W. Li, L. T. Roling, J. Xiao, L. Jiang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 7422.
- [12] a) Z. Pu, I. S. Amiinu, X. Liu, M. Wang, S. Mu, *Nanoscale* **2016**, *8*, 17256; b) D. Xie, Y. Chen, D. Yu, S. Han, J. Song, Y. Xie, F. Hu, L. Li, S. Peng, *Chem.Commun.* **2020**, *56*, 6842; c) H. Lee, S. M. Dellatore, W. M. Miller, P. B. Messersmith, *Science* **2007**, *318*, 426; d) L. Shen, J. Ying, K. I. Ozoemena, C. Janiak, X. Y. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2110851.

- [13] C. Sun, P. Zhao, Y. Yang, Z. Li, W. Sheng, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 11830.
- [14] a) J. Liu, J. Wang, Y. Fo, B. Zhang, C. Molochas, J. Gao, W. Li, X. Cui, X. Zhou, L. Jiang, P. Tsiakaras, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *454*, 139959; b) A. Mani, S. Mohan, N. G. Renganathan, K. Athinarayanaswamy, R. Srinivasan, *J. Mater. Sci. Lett.* **1996**, *15*, 1048; c) M. Thuyet-Nguyen, J.-C. Kim, *Arch. Metall. Mater.* **2023**, *64*, 893.
- [15] J. Liu, B. Zhang, Y. Fo, W. Yu, J. Gao, X. Cui, X. Zhou, L. Jiang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *464*, 142692.
- [16] M. V. Pagliaro, H. A. Miller, C. Evangelisti, M. Bellini, G. Tuci, C. Pham-Huu, G. Giambastiani, M. Marelli, F. Vizza, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 3586.
- [17] a) J. Zhong, W. Xiang, *J. Non-Cryst. Solids* **2017**, *462*, 17; b) J. Tang, X.- M. Zhang, S.-S. Yu, S.-L. Wang, G.-Q. Sun, *J. Electrochem.* **2021**, *27*, 508.
- [18] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 5076.
- [19] H. Sun, C. Li, L. Yang, Y. Han, X. Yu, C. P. Li, Z. Zhang, Z. Yan, F. Cheng, M. Du, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2023**, *120*, e2308035120.
- [20] Y. Yang, S. Kanchanakungwankul, S. Bhaumik, Q. Ma, S. Ahn, D. G. Truhlar, J. T. Hupp, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 22019.
- [21] J. Yang, W. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003300.
- [22] J. Mao, W. Chen, D. He, J. Wan, J. Pei, J. Dong, Y. Wang, P. An, Z. Jin, W. Xing, H. Tang, Z. Zhuang, X. Liang, Y. Huang, G. Zhou, L. Wang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Sci. Adv.* **2017**, *3*, e1603068.
- [23] Y. Duan, Z.-Y. Yu, L. Yang, L.-R. Zheng, C.-T. Zhang, X.-T. Yang, F.-Y. Gao, X.-L. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, H.-H. Ding, C. Gu, X.-S. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, S.-H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789.
- [24] a) Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141; b) W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Héroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schüler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804.
- [25] W. Sheng, H. A. Gasteiger, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2010**, *157*, B1529.
- [26] a) S. Qin, Y. Duan, X.-L. Zhang, L.-R. Zheng, F.-Y. Gao, P.-P. Yang, Z.-Z. Niu, R. Liu, Y. Yang, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2686; b) X.-L. Zhang, S.-J. Hu, Y.-H. Wang, L. Shi, Y. Yang, M.-R. Gao, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *23*, 107; c) Y. Men, X. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. Ge, S. Jia, L. Li, J. Wang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 12661; d) P. Han, N. Yao, W. Zuo, W. Luo, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, 1527; e) F. Yang, P. Han, N. Yao, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Chem. Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 12118; f) X. Wang, Y. Tong, X. Li, L. Zhao, Y. Cui, Y. Wang, H. Hu, T. Cai, M. Wu, H. Hu, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, W. Xing, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *445*, 136700; g) F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 14179; h) W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y. C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 10797; i) Y. Li, Z. Li, H. Cong, C. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 3682; j) L. Su, D. Gong, N. Yao, Y. Li, Z. Li, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2106156; k) Y. Duan, X. L. Zhang, F. Y. Gao, Y. Kong, Y. Duan, X. T. Yang, X. X. Yu, Y. R. Wang, S. Qin, Z. Chen, R. Wu, P. P. Yang, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, T. B. Lu, Z. Y. Yu, S. H. Yu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202217275.
- [27] a) S. Kabir, K. Lemire, K. Artyushkova, A. Roy, M. Odgaard, D. Schlueter, A. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, E. Savinova, D. C. Sabarirajan, P. Mandal, E. J. Crumlin, I. V. Zenyuk, P. Atanassov, A. Serov, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 24433; b) F. Chen, J. Ren, F. Cheng, D. Cao, M. Qiao, B. Wu, N. Zheng, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 11473; c) Y. Gao, H. Peng, Y. Wang, G. Wang, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 31575; d) Y. Yang, F.-Y. Gao, X.- L. Zhang, S. Qin, L.-R. Zheng, Y.-H. Wang, J. Liao, Q. Yang, M.-R. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202208040; e) S. Lu, J. Pan, A. Huang, L. Zhuang, J. Lu, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2008**, *105*,

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2024, 22, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202315062 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- 20611; f) S. Gu, W. Sheng, R. Cai, S. M. Alia, S. Song, K. O. Jensen, Y. Yan, *Chem.Commun.* **2013**, *49*, 131.
- [28] a) M. Alsabet, M. Grden, G. Jerkiewicz, *Electrocatalysis* **2011**, *2*, 317; b) A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *269*, 111.
- [29] a) J. Zheng, J. Nash, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, H27; b) M. C. O. Monteiro, A. Goyal, P. Moerland, M. T. M. Koper, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14328.
- [30] a) S. Steinberg, R. Dronskowski, *Crystals* **2018**, *8*, 225; b) Y. Fang, H. Sun, W. Peng, Q. Yuan, C. Zhao, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 5162.