---
source: Yuan 等 - 2021 - RuNi Alloy Nanoparticles Encapsulated in span style=.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 28.398s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:38:43.900502Z
---

**Cite this paper:** *Chin. J. Chem.* **2021**, *39*, 3455—3461. **DOI: 10.1002/cjoc.202100425**

# **RuNi Alloy Nanoparticles Encapsulated in Oxygen-Doped Carbon as Bifunctional Catalyst towards Hydrogen Electrocatalysis**

Qing Yuan, Yang Yang, Shipeng Gong, Shi Chen, Minxue Huang, Changlai Wang, Huigang Tong, and Qianwang Chen\*

*Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and Department of Materials Science & Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, China*

#### **Keywords**

Electrocatalysts | Water splitting | Hydrogen oxidation reaction |Metal-organic frameworks | Nanoparticles

## **Main observation and conclusion**

The efficient production and utilization of hydrogen play an important role in the closed loop of energy conversion. It is an urgent need to find low-cost and high-performance replacements for platinum-based catalysts towards hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, bifunctional RuNi alloy nanoparticles embedded in oxygen-doped carbon were prepared via simple annealing of Ru-doped Ni-BTC, the limiting current density of which could reach 2.46 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> (close to Pt) in 0.1 mol/L KOH for HOR. And the low overpotentials of only 29 mV in 1 mol/L KOH and 62 mV in 0.5 mol/L H2SO<sup>4</sup> were needed to reach the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for HER. The effect of alloying and oxygen-doped graphene contributed to the excellent activity and stability during hydrogen electrocatalysis. This work provides new ideas for the development of novel types of hydrogen electrocatalysts and enriches the application of MOFs in HOR.

## **Comprehensive Graphic Content**

\*E-mail: cqw@ustc.edu.cn

**[View HTML Article](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cjoc.202100425) [Supporting Information](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/action/downloadSupplement?doi=10.1002%2Fcjoc.202100425&file=cjoc202100425-sup-0001-Supinfo.pdf)**

#### **Background and Originality Content**

The increasing energy demand and worsening environment pollution promote people to explore green and sustainable energy sources including wind energy, tidal energy, solar energy, and so on.<sup>[1-2]</sup> However, a more effective way is urgently needed to solve the intermittent and localized deficiencies.<sup>[3]</sup> Hydrogen is a promising alternative to the current CO<sub>2</sub>-emitting fossil fuels because of its high calorific value, cleanness, and recyclability. [4] The use of electrolyzing water to produce hydrogen from renewable energy and hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells to generate electricity can effectively solve the above problems and build an energy system to meet the needs. [5] Hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), as two key reactions of hydrogen cycle, require high-performance catalysts. [6] With the development of anion exchange membranes and non-noble metal catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction in alkaline media, where kinetics of HOR and HER are two orders slower than that in acid media, it is of great practical potential to explore efficient anode catalysts to overcome sluggish reactions. [7-9]

Platinum is regarded as the electrocatalyst with the best inherent catalytic activity so far, but its high cost and insufficient reserves limit its large-scale industrial application. [10-11] At present, attentions have been paid on non-noble metals such as phosphides, [12] nitrides, [13] sulfides and chalcogenides. [15] However, due to their inherently slow kinetics, most of the materials have failed to reach the level of platinum-based catalysts. H\* is the crucial intermediate for HER and HOR, and the ability of catalysts to absorb and remove H\* can largely determine the progress of the reaction. [16] Hydrogen binding energy (HBE) is an important descriptor. According to the volcano plot, which is obtained by combining theoretical calculations and experimental tests, the closer to the top, the better the performance. [9,17-18] Alloving is an effective strategy to adjust the strength of adsorbed H by optimizing the surface chemical composition and electronic structure (e.g., PtRu, [19-20] PtNi, [21] PtRu<sub>3</sub>, [22] PtCo [23]). According to bifunctional mechanism, oxygenicity of materials can also affect the reactivity of HER and HOR in alkaline. [24] Compared to other platinum group metal, Ru is more economically advantageous in price (42 \$ per oz). Besides, Ru has moderate Ru—H bond strength like platinum, oxophilic effect and low energy barrier for water dissociation. [25-27] Its low ORR activity can also mitigate the reverse current mechanism. [28] Ru-based catalysts have been considered as good candidates for HOR/HER. Coupling the Ru with 3d-transition metals should be a facile and effective approach to further increase activity and reduce costs (e.g., RuAu, [29] CoRulr, CuRu, RuMo [32]). However, many RuM alloys cannot fully demonstrate catalytic potential due to their larger particle size, easy agglomeration and oxidation.

In recent years, carbon-based composite materials, especially heteroatom-doped carbon have shown excellent activity and stability in HER due to interaction. [33-35] For example, nitrogen doping can not only enhance the conductivity of the carbon matrix, but also promote electron transfer. However, there are few reports about their applications in HOR and on the role of oxygendoped carbon. Meanwhile, many researches have shown that the introduction of oxides heterojunction can effectively improve the catalytic activity for HOR. Mouhat demonstrated the specific properties of GO in water, an unusual combination of both hydrophilicity and fast water dynamics by realistic first-principles molecular simulations. [38] Metal organic framework compounds (MOFs) composed of metal nodes and organic ligands have great potential to synthesize various nanocomposites with close combination between particles and carbon materials. In this paper, the Ru-doped Ni-BTC (oxygen-containing precursor) was directly carbonized in nitrogen to synthesize a composite material with ultrafine RuNi alloy embedded in oxygen-doped carbon (denoted as RuNi@OC-T, where T represents the annealing temperature). Due to the effect of alloying and oxygen-doped carbon layer, the material showed excellent electrocatalytic activity and stability toward HOR and HER. The effect of alloying Ru with Ni contributed to its excellent activity. The oxygen-doped carbon layer acted as an "armor", which further improved the performance of Ru-based materials.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Detailed materials, synthesis, characterization and testing details are provided in Supporting Information. The synthesis process of NiRu@OC is described in Scheme 1. In the solution, Ni<sup>3+</sup> in Ni-BTC was partially replaced by Ru<sup>3+</sup>. [39-40] The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure S1) indicated that the rodshaped Ni-BTC was damaged after Ru doping, showing smaller rough cracked flakes. The next step of annealing in a nitrogen atmosphere could obtain RuNi nanoparticles embedded in oxygen-doped carbon. RuNi@OC-400 presented a fragmented morphology, with ultra-small nanoparticles uniformly dispersed in carbon layers (Figure S1, Figure 1a). As the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images showed in Figure 1, with increasing the calcination temperature from 400 °C, 600 °C to 800 °C, the particle size also gradually increased. No significant change in morphology was observed after the tests (Figure S2, Figure 1d). Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) of Ru-doped Ni-BTC precursor was shown in Figure S3. Oxygen-containing ligands were carbonized, accompanied by the release of gas and the reduction of metal ions, and oxygen species were bonded to the carbon layers in situ. There was a large weight loss between 400 °C and 500 °C, which indicated further pyrolysis and alloying process. According to the results, a series of samples annealed at different temperatures including 300 °C, 600 °C and 800 °C were synthesized under similar conditions, respectively, and their SEM images were shown in Figure S1. Undoped Ni@OC and Ru@OC were also obtained by

**Scheme 1** Synthetic path for RuNi@OC. (a) Ni-BTC precursor synthesized at room temperature, (b) Ru-doped Ni-BTC prepared by adding Ru<sup>3+</sup> to methanol containing precursor, (c) RuNi nanoparticles embedded in oxygen-doped carbon obtained from the pyrolysis of Ru-doped Ni-BTC under nitrogen

Figure 1 TEM images of (a) RuNi@OC-400, (b) RuNi@OC-600, (c) RuNi@OC-800, (d) RuNi@OC-400 after HER stability test.

calcining pure Ni-BTC and Ru-BTC as comparison.

The characterization results of high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) were shown in Figure 2 and Figure S4. In Figure 2, the diameter of the nanoparticles in RuNi@OC-400 was mainly distributed between 2.5 nm and 5.5 nm, with an average size of 3.7 nm. The inter-planar spaces of 0.234 nm, 0.205 nm and 0.34 nm corresponded to the (100), (101) crystal planes of the hexagonal (hcp) Ru and the graphene layer outside the particles, respectively. EDX results showed the existence of the four elements of C, O, Ni, and Ru and they were evenly distributed in RuNi@OC-400, further confirming the successful synthesis of RuNi alloys encapsulated in O-doped carbon matrix. The diameter of nanoparticles in RuNi@OC-800 was mainly distributed between 7.5 nm and 9.5 nm, and the average size increased to 8.6 nm (Figure S4). In addition to the (100) and (101) crystal planes of the hcp Ru, the (200) crystal plane of face-centered cubic (fcc) Ni with the planar space of 0.176 nm was also observed. The EDX results also confirmed the uneven distribution of Ni and the presence of segregation, indicating that the increase of the size of the nanoparticles at high temperature was accompanied by the formation of new phase.

**Figure 2** (a, c, d) HRTEM images of RuNi@OC-400, (b) the distribution of particles size, (e—j) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometry (EDX) mappings of RuNi@OC-400 for C (f), O (g), Ni (h), Ru (i) and C + O + Ni + Ru (j), respectively.

In order to determine the phase composition and change, the products synthesized at different temperatures were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD). In Figure 3a, the peaks of RuNi@OC-400 and RuNi@OC-600 at  $2\vartheta = 38.39^{\circ}$ , 42.16°, 44.01°, 58.32°, 69.41° and 78.39° could be indexed as hcp Ru (PDF#06-0663), corresponding to crystal planes (100), (002), (101), (102), (110) and (103), respectively. Compared with the standard card, the peaks position shifted to a relatively higher angle indicating the formation of alloying. The addition of Ni with a smaller atomic radius made the interplanar spacing smaller. [43] It was worth noting that the broad peak of RuNi@OC-400 indicated that the sample obtained at low-temperature also exhibited smaller particles and lower crystallinity. RuNi@OC-300 only showed broadened peak (Figure S5), indicating that no obvious crystal phase was formed at this temperature due to the low degree of pyrolysis. A new peak corresponding to fcc Ni (PDF#04-0850) appeared in RuNi@OC-800, which was consistent with the HRTEM results and meant that the migration of atoms at high temperatures was different from that at low temperatures, resulting in different particle size and phase. [44] As shown in Figure S5, since Ru@OC-400 was not fully pyrolyzed, there was no obvious peak. Meanwhile, strong Ru peaks appeared in Ru@OC-800. The peak in Ni@OC-

400 corresponded to the cubic Ni, which further confirmed the formation of RuNi alloy in RuNi@OC-400/600. Besides, it also showed that the presence of Ru changed the behavior of Ni during the pyrolysis process. It has been reported that size and temperature would cause the phase transition of nickel-based catalysts. [45-46] XRD results in Figure S6 showed that there was no significant change in phase and structure after the electrocatalytic tests corresponding to Ru-Ni alloy. The narrower peaks indicated a slight increase in the size of the particles. Figure 3b illustrated the Raman spectra, and the peaks at 1342 cm<sup>-1</sup>, 1597 cm<sup>-1</sup> corresponded to the D and G bands of carbon, respectively. The broad 2D peak near 2690 cm<sup>-1</sup> indicated that the carbon layer was composed of several layers of graphene. [37,47] The  $I_D/I_G$  of RuNi@OC-400, 600 and 800 were 1.03, 0.86, and 1.15 in order, indicating that there were a large number of defects in carbon materials. The fewest defects at 600 °C should be attributed to incomplete carbonization at low temperature and oxygen escape leaving defects at high temperature. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) specific surface area of RuNi@OC-400 was calculated to be 115 m<sup>2</sup>/g, and the average pore size was 7.7 nm as shown in Figure S7, which was a type II curve with a hysteresis loop.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of RuNi@OC (Figure S8, Table S1) revealed the co-existence of Ni, Ru, O and C. The atomic ratio of Ru and Ni measured by ICP-AES was about 2.1: 1. The Ru 3p peaks were further examined by high-resolution XPS. Compared with Ru@OC-800, Ru 3p peak of NiRu@OC-400 shifted by about 0.8 eV, [48-50] which meant that in the process of forming RuNi alloy, the electron transferred from Ni to Ru, resulting in a higher electron density of Ru (Figure 3c), Compared with NiRu@ OC-400, the Ru 3p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks of NiRu@OC-600 and NiRu@OC-800 further moved to the lower energy, indicating that there was relatively optimal electron density on Ru of NiRu@OC-400 (Figure 3d). Meanwhile, as shown in Figure S9a, there were mainly Ni<sup>2+</sup> in RuNi@400 and Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>0</sup> in NiRu@OC-600/800. [51-52] And Ni 2p of NiRu@OC-600 and NiRu@OC-800 transferred more electrons from Ni to Ru than that of RuNi@400, which was consistent with the change of Ru 3p. Spectrum of O 1s of RuNi@OC-400 could be deconvolved into four peaks, corresponding to Ni-0, C=0, -0H and C-0 (Figure S9b). [53-55] The XPS spectra were well maintained after the HER process in Figure S10, and the right shift of the spectral line should be caused by the oxidation at the high potential of the anode in the HOR process. As shown in Figure S11, the infrared spectroscopy (IR) also further showed the existence of -O, C=O, C=C, C—H and -OH on the carbon materials surface. [56]

Figure 4a presented the HER polarization curves of all RuNi@ OC samples in 1 mol/L KOH. It was obvious that RuNi@OC-400 needed a lower overpotential of 29 mV at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> than RuNi@OC-600 (35 mV), RuNi@OC-800 (98 mV), RuNi@OC-300 (42 mV), 20% Pt/C (40 mV) and other reported HER electrocatalysts (Tables S2, S3). Especially at the high current of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, the overpotential was much smaller than that of Pt/C. In Figure 4b, the performance of NiRu@OC-400 was much better than that of Ni@OC-400, Ru@OC-400, Ru@OC-800 (156 mV), commercial Ru powder (127 mV) and nano Ru powder (54 mV), meaning that alloying of non-noble metals with precious metals was an effective way to improve the catalyst activity. The HER performances of Ru-doped Ni-BTC and Ni-BTC were also evaluated in Figure S12a, and they showed almost no activity. RuNi@OC-400 also needed the lowest overpotential of 62 mV at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> in 0.5 mol/L H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, compared to RuNi@OC-600 (94 mV) and RuNi@ OC-800 (148 mV) (Figure 4c). In order to evaluate stability, cyclic voltammetry test was carried out as shown in Figure 4d. The polarization curves were overlapped before and after 4000 cycles, and the performance did not decrease. After 14 000 cycles, the overpotential at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> only increased by 3 mV, indicating that the oxygen-doped carbon coating in the NiRu@OC-400 improved the stability. Besides, chronoamperometry experiment

161 47065, 2021, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/gior.202100425 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2.

was also performed as shown in Figure S13a. As shown in Figure 4e, Ni@OC-400 exhibited the lowest Tafel slope of 33.79 mV/dec, indicating faster reaction kinetics of HER. In electrocatalytic reactions, smaller electrochemical impedance (EIS) represented faster charge transfer rate, and larger capacitance ( $C_{\rm cl}$ ) represented larger electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), which were conducive to superior activity. As shown in Figure 4f, the ECSA was obtained by cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurement. RuNi@

OC-400 had a larger  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of 17.40 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> than that of RuNi@OC-600 (9.45 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>) and RuNi@OC-800 (5.95 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>), which was in line with the above trend of activity. Similarly, RuNi@OC-400 showed the smallest semicircle diameter indicating smallest impedance (Figure S14). The best HER performance of RuNi@OC-400 may benefit from alloying, optimized phase, ultrasmall nanoparticles and the synergistic effect of oxygen-doped graphene layer.

Figure 3 (a) XRD patterns of RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600 and RuNi@OC-800. (b) Raman spectra of RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600 and RuNi@OC-800. (c) High-resolution Ru 3p XPS spectra of Ru@OC-800 and RuNi@OC-400, (d) High-resolution Ru 3p XPS spectra of RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600 and RuNi@OC-800.

Figure 4 (a) HER LSV curves of RuNi@OC-300, RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600, RuNi@OC-800 and 20% Pt/C in 1 mol/L KOH. (b) HER LSV of RuNi@OC-400, Ni@OC-400, Ru@OC-400, Ru@OC-400, Ru@OC-400, Ru@OC-400, Ru@OC-600 and RuNi@OC-800 in 0.5 mol/L H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>. (d) HER LSV curves of RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600, RuNi@OC-600, RuNi@OC-800 and 20% Pt/C in 1 mol/L KOH. (f) C<sub>dl</sub> of RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600 and RuNi@OC-800 in 1 mol/L KOH.

Figure 5 (a) HOR LSV curves of RuNi@OC-300, RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-600, RuNi@OC-800, nano Ru and 20% Pt/C in 0.1 mol/L KOH under H<sub>2</sub>, and LSV curve of RuNi@OC-600 under Ar. (b) HOR polarization curves of RuNi@OC-600 at different rotation rates under H<sub>2</sub>, inset: the Koutecky-Levich plot of RuNi@OC-600 at an overpotential of 50 mV.

The catalytic activities of the RuNi@OC for HOR in 0.1 mol/L KOH were shown in Figure 5a. The sample RuNi@OC-600 showed the highest current density, and the limiting current density of 2.46 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> was close to that of 20% Pt/C. At 0.1 V, the current densities of RuNi@OC-600, RuNi@OC-400, RuNi@OC-800, 20% Pt/C, and nano Ru powder were 2.07 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, 1.96 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, 2.00 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, 2.03 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, and 0.91 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, respectively. RuNi@OC-300 without obvious metal phase and precursors (Figure S12b) was almost inactive. It also proved that alloying was an effective means to improve HOR activity. The polarization current was almost zero under argon atmosphere, indicating that the polarization current originated from the electrocatalytic oxidation of H<sub>2</sub>. The polarization curves of the sample RuNi@OC-600 measured at the speed of 400—2500 r/min were shown in Figure 5b, and a slope of 3.72 cm<sup>2</sup>·mA<sup>-1</sup>·s<sup>-1/2</sup> could be obtained by fitting  $j^{-1}$  vs.  $\omega^{-1/2}$  at 50 mV, which was similar to that of Ru-based materials with better performance reported in the literature. [24,45] The calculated kinetic current density  $j_k$  was 1.65 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>. The best HOR performance was owing to the most optimum alloying degree and electronic structure of RuNi@OC-600. The current dropped slightly after 0.1 V. The chronoamperometry experiment was performed as shown in Figure S13b. It should be noted that the oxygen-containing graphene carbon layer acted as an "armor" to protect the stability of the material to a certain extent.

According to previous studies, the transfer of electrons from Ni to Ru in RuNi alloy was accompanied by a down-shift of the d-band center of Ru, which produced a more suitable hydrogen binding energy (HBE) for Ru as the hydrogen-adsorbed site. [27] Some researchers reported that the apparent hydrogen binding energy (HBE<sub>app</sub>) was the net results of HBE and water adsorption (HBE<sub>app</sub> =  $\Delta G_{0app}$  = HBE- $\Delta G_{0H_2O}$ ). As a result, the introduction of oxophilic sites can also enhance activity by reacting hydroxyl species (OH $_{\rm ad}$ ) with H $_{\rm ad}$ . [52,57] Therefore, the presence of Ni(II) oxidation state could further improve the activity by increasing the adsorption energy of water and hydroxyl species. Both HER and HOR activities for RuNi@OC-400 and RuNi@OC-600 were better than those of pure Ru@OC and Ni@OC, which verified the above conclusion that alloying could improve activity during hydrogen electrocatalysis. Meanwhile, oxygen-doped carbon may promote catalytic activity by affecting the adsorption and desorption of intermediate species. [42] The specific role of oxygenated species deserves further study as well. In addition, the outer carbon shell could also improve the stability of the catalyst. Bao et al. demonstrated that the carbon layer could protect alloy core from the

corrosion of acid or alkali ions, which made the catalysts more stable under acidic or alkaline conditions. The carbon shell layer could also prevent the metal core from being reduced at relatively negative potential during HER as well as being oxidized at relatively positive potential during HOR, thus improving stability in hydrogen electrocatalysis.

### **Conclusions**

In summary, this article reported a simple MOF derivation strategy. The RuNi alloy nanoparticles embedded in oxygendoped carbon were synthesized by directly calcining the Ru-doped Ni-BTC precursor. Limited by the carbon matrix during the carbonization process, the ultrafine RuNi nanoparticles were uniformly distributed with different crystal phases and morphologies at different temperatures. Due to the effect of alloying, the material exhibited excellent electrocatalytic HER activity and stability. The overpotentials at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> in alkaline and acid were only 29 mV and 62 mV, respectively. Especially in alkaline environment, the catalyst exhibited excellent Pt-like electrocatalytic HOR activity. In addition to alloying effect, oxygen-doped carbon layers acted as an "armor", which could improve the activity and stability of Ru-based materials. This work provides a new insight to develop novel oxygen-doped carbon-based catalysts for HOR and enriches the application of MOFs in HOR.

### **Experimental**

The Ru-doped Ni-BTC prepared at room temperature was directly carbonized under nitrogen to synthesize a composite material with ultrafine RuNi alloy embedded in oxygen-doped carbon (denoted as RuNi@OC-T, where T represents the annealing temperature).

#### **Supporting Information**

The supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cjoc.202100425.

### **Acknowledgement**

This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 51772283, 22072140, 21972145).

16147065, 2021, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cjoc.202100425 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# **References**

- [1] Chu, S.; Majumdar, A. Opportunities and challenges for a sustainable energy future. *Nature* **2012**, *488*, 294‒303.
- [2] Chu, S.; Cui, Y.; Liu, N. The path towards sustainable energy. *Nat. Mater.* **2016**, *16*, 16‒22.
- [3] Bruce Dunn, H. K.; Jean-Marie, T. Electrical Energy Storage for the Grid: A Battery of Choices. *Science* **2021**, *334*, 928‒935.
- [4] Abe, J. O.; Popoola, A. P. I.; Ajenifuja, E.; Popoola, O. M. Hydrogen energy, economy and storage: Review and recommendation. *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy* **2019**, *44*, 15072‒15086.
- [5] Desmond Ng, J. W.; Gorlin, Y.; Hatsukade, T.; Jaramillo, T. F. A Precious-Metal-Free Regenerative Fuel Cell for Storing Renewable Electricity. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2013**, *3*, 1545‒1550.
- [6] Zhang, P.; Sun, L. Electrocatalytic Hydrogenation and Oxidation in Aqueous Conditions. *Chin. J. Chem.* **2020**, *38*, 996‒1004.
- [7] Rhatigan, S.; Michel, M.-C.; Nolan, M. Hydrogen evolution on non-metal oxide catalysts. *J. Phys. Energy* **2020**, *2*, 042002.
- [8] Tian, X.; Lu, X. F.; Xia, B. Y.; Lou, X. W. Advanced Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Energy Conversion Technologies. *Joule* **2020**, *4*, 45‒68.
- [9] Wang, J.; Zhao, Y.; Setzler, B. P.; Rojas-Carbonell, S.; Ben Yehuda, C.; Amel, A.; Page, M.; Wang, L.; Hu, K.; Shi, L.; Gottesfeld, S.; Xu, B.; Yan, Y. Poly(aryl piperidinium) membranes and ionomers for hydroxide exchange membrane fuel cells. *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 392‒398.
- [10] Records, W. C.; Yoon, Y.; Ohmura, J. F.; Chanut, N.; Belcher, A. M. Virus-templated Pt–Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanonetworks for enhanced electrocatalytic reduction of water. *Nano Energy* **2019**, *58*, 167‒174.
- [11] Wang, Y.; Yuan, Y.; Huang, H. Recent Advances in Pt-Based Ultrathin Nanowires: Synthesis and Electrocatalytic Applications. *Chin. J. Chem.* **2021**, *39*, 1389‒1396.
- [12] Bu, X.; Wei, R.; Gao, W.; Lan, C.; Ho, J. C. A unique sandwich structure of a CoMnP/Ni2P/NiFe electrocatalyst for highly efficient overall water splitting. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 12325‒12332.
- [13] Wang, T.; Wang, M.; Yang, H.; Xu, M.; Zuo, C.; Feng, K.; Xie, M.; Deng, J.; Zhong, J.; Zhou, W.; Cheng, T.; Li, Y. Weakening hydrogen adsorption on nickel via interstitial nitrogen doping promotes bifunctional hydrogen electrocatalysis in alkaline solution. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 3522‒3529.
- [14] Liao, L.; Yang, L.; Zhao, G.; Zhou, H.; Cai, F.; Li, Y.; Wang, X.; Yu, F. Boosting pH-Universal Hydrogen Evolution of Molybdenum Disulfide Particles by Interfacial Engineering. *Chin. J. Chem.* **2021**, *39*, 288‒294.
- [15] Anantharaj, S.; Kundu, S.; Noda, S. Progress in nickel chalcogenide electrocatalyzed hydrogen evolution reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 4174‒4192.
- [16] Lu, S.; Zhuang, Z. Electrocatalysts for hydrogen oxidation and evolution reactions. *Sci. China Mater.* **2016**, *59*, 217‒238.
- [17] Sheng, W.; Myint, M.; Chen, J. G.; Yan, Y. Correlating the hydrogen evolution reaction activity in alkaline electrolytes with the hydrogen binding energy on monometallic surfaces. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 1509.
- [18] Zeradjanin, A. R.; Grote, J. P.; Polymeros, G.; Mayrhofer, K. J. J. A Critical Review on Hydrogen Evolution Electrocatalysis: Re-exploring the Volcano-relationship. *Electroanalysis* **2016**, *28*, 2256‒2269.
- [19] Wang, Y.; Wang, G.; Li, G.; Huang, B.; Pan, J.; Liu, Q.; Han, J.; Xiao, L.; Lu, J.; Zhuang, L. Pt–Ru catalyzed hydrogen oxidation in alkaline media: oxophilic effect or electronic effect? *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177‒181.
- [20] Li, Q.; Peng, H.; Wang, Y.; Xiao, L.; Lu, J.; Zhuang, L. The Comparability of Pt to Pt-Ru in Catalyzing the Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction for Alkaline Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cells Operated at 80 degrees C. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 1442‒1446.
- [21] Lu, S.; Zhuang, Z. Investigating the Influences of the Adsorbed Species on Catalytic Activity for Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction in Alkaline Electrolyte*. J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5156‒5163.
- [22] Zhang, J.; Qu, X.; Shen, L.; Li, G.; Zhang, T.; Zheng, J.; Ji, L.; Yan, W.; Han, Y.; Cheng, X.; Jiang, Y.; Sun, S. Engineering the Near-Surface of

- PtRu<sup>3</sup> Nanoparticles to Improve Hydrogen Oxidation Activity in Alkaline Electrolyte. *Small* **2021**, *17*, e2006698.
- [23] Scofield, M. E.; Zhou, Y.; Yue, S.; Wang, L.; Su, D.; Tong, X.; Vukmirovic, M. B.; Adzic, R. R.; Wong, S. S. Role of Chemical Composition in the Enhanced Catalytic Activity of Pt-Based Alloyed Ultrathin Nanowires for the Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction under Alkaline Conditions. *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 3895‒3908.
- [24] Li, M. T.; Wei, Z. D. Research Progress of Hydrogen Oxidation and Hydrogen Evolution Reaction Mechanism in Alkaline Media. *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2021**, *37*, 2007054.
- [25] Ishikawa, Y.; Mateo, J. J.; Tryk, D. A.; Cabrera, C. R. Direct molecular dynamics and density-functional theoretical study of the electrochemical hydrogen oxidation reaction and underpotential deposition of H on Pt (111). *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2007**, *607*, 37‒46.
- [26] Mitchell, W. J.; Xie, J.; Jachimowski, T. A.; Weinberg, W. H. Carbon Monoxide Hydrogenation on the Ru (001) Surface at Low Temperature Using Gas-Phase Atomic Hydrogen: Spectroscopic Evidence for the Carbonyl Insertion Mechanism on a Transition Metal Surface. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1995**, *117*, 2606‒2617.
- [27] Wang, H.; Yang, Y.; DiSalvo, F. J.; Abruña, H. D. Multifunctional Electrocatalysts: Ru–M (M = Co, Ni, Fe) for Alkaline Fuel Cells and Electrolyzers. *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 4608‒4616.
- [28] Kaspar, R. B.; Wittkopf, J. A.; Woodroof, M. D.; Armstrong, M. J.; Yan, Y. Reverse-Current Decay in Hydroxide Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2016**, *163*, 377‒383.
- [29] Chen, C. H.; Wu, D.; Li, Z.; Zhang, R.; Kuai, C. G.; Zhao, X. R.; Dong, C. K.; Qiao, S. Z.; Liu, H.; Du, X. W. Ruthenium-Based Single-Atom Alloy with High Electrocatalytic Activity for Hydrogen Evolution. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1803913.
- [30] Shan, J.; Ling, T.; Davey, K.; Zheng, Y.; Qiao, S. Z. Transition-Metal-Doped RuIr Bifunctional Nanocrystals for Overall Water Splitting in Acidic Environments. *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, e1900510.
- [31] Wu, Q.; Luo, M.; Han, J.; Peng, W.; Zhao, Y.; Chen, D.; Peng, M.; Liu, J.; de Groot, F. M. F.; Tan, Y. Identifying Electrocatalytic Sites of the Nanoporous Copper–Ruthenium Alloy for Hydrogen Evolution Reaction in Alkaline Electrolyte. *ACS Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, 192‒199.
- [32] Zhang, Z.; Li, P.; Wang, Q.; Feng, Q.; Tao, Y.; Xu, J.; Jiang, C.; Lu, X.; Fan, J.; Gu, M.; Li, H.; Wang, H. Mo modulation effect on the hydrogen binding energy of hexagonal-close-packed Ru for hydrogen evolution. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 2780‒2786.
- [33] Su, J.; Yang, Y.; Xia, G.; Chen, J.; Jiang, P.; Chen, Q. Ruthenium-cobalt nanoalloys encapsulated in nitrogen-doped graphene as active electrocatalysts for producing hydrogen in alkaline media. *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14969.
- [34] Yan, Q. Q.; Wu, D. X.; Chu, S. Q.; Chen, Z. Q.; Lin, Y.; Chen, M. X.; Zhang, J.; Wu, X. J.; Liang, H. W. Reversing the charge transfer between platinum and sulfur-doped carbon support for electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution. *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4977.
- [35] Ni, W.; Wang, T.; Heroguel, F.; Krammer, A.; Lee, S.; Yao, L.; Scheeler, A.; Luterbacher, J.; Yan, Y.; Hu, X. An Efficient Nickel Hydrogen Oxidation Catalyst for Hydroxide Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. *ChemRxiv* **2021**.
- [36] Yang, Y.; Lin, Z.; Gao, S.; Su, J.; Lun, Z.; Xia, G.; Chen, J.; Zhang, R.; Chen, Q. Tuning Electronic Structures of Nonprecious Ternary Alloys Encapsulated in Graphene Layers for Optimizing Overall Water Splitting Activity. *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 469‒479.
- [37] Wang, C.; Tong, H.; Lu, J.; Liu, B.; Zheng, F.; Tao, W.; Zhang, W.; Chen, Q. Boosting oxygen evolution reaction on graphene through engineering electronic structure. *Carbon* **2020**, *170*, 414‒420.
- [38] Mouhat, F.; Coudert, F.-X.; Bocquet, M.-L. Structure and chemistry of graphene oxide in liquid water from first principles. *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1566.
- [39] Wu, Y.; Chen, H.; Xiao, J.; Liu, D.; Liu, Z.; Qian, Y.; Xi, H. Adsorptive Separation of Methanol–Acetone on Isostructural Series of Metal– Organic Frameworks M-BTC (M = Ti, Fe, Cu, Co, Ru, Mo): A Computational Study of Adsorption Mechanisms and Metal-Substitution Impacts. *ACS Appl. Mater. Inter.* **2015**, *7*, 26930‒26940.

16147065, 2021, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cjoc.202100425 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [40] Sun, Y.; Xue, Z.; Liu, Q.; Jia, Y.; Li, Y.; Liu, K.; Lin, Y.; Liu, M.; Li, G.; Su, C. Y. Modulating electronic structure of metal-organic frameworks by introducing atomically dispersed Ru for efficient hydrogen evolution. *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1369.
- [41] Li, M.; Wang, C.; Yang, Y.; Jiang, P.; Lin, Z.; Xia, G.; Yang, K.; Xu, P.; Chen, Q. Turning Carbon Atoms into Highly Active Oxygen Reduction Reaction Electrocatalytic Sites in Nitrogen-Doped Graphene-Coated Co@Ag. *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, 14033‒14041.
- [42] Gong, S.; Wang, C.; Jiang, P.; Yang, K.; Lu, J.; Huang, M.; Chen, S.; Wang, J.; Chen, Q. O species-decorated graphene shell encapsulating iridium–nickel alloy as an efficient electrocatalyst towards hydrogen evolution reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 15079‒15088.
- [43] Liu, Y.; Li, X.; Zhang, Q.; Li, W.; Xie, Y.; Liu, H.; Shang, L.; Liu, Z.; Chen, Z.; Gu, L.; Tang, Z.; Zhang, T.; Lu, S. A General Route to Prepare Low-Ruthenium-Content Bimetallic Electrocatalysts for pH-Universal Hydrogen Evolution Reaction by Using Carbon Quantum Dots. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 1718‒1726.
- [44] Jiang, P.; Huang, H.; Diao, J.; Gong, S.; Chen, S.; Lu, J.; Wang, C.; Sun, Z.; Xia, G.; Yang, K.; Yang, Y.; Wei, L.; Chen, Q. Improving electrocatalytic activity of iridium for hydrogen evolution at high current densities above 1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2019**, *258*, 117965.
- [45] Liu, J. X.; Zhang, B. Y.; Chen, P. P.; Su, H. Y.; Li, W. X. CO Dissociation on Face-Centered Cubic and Hexagonal Close-Packed Nickel Catalysts: A First-Principles Study. *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 24895‒24903.
- [46] Wang, C.; Yang, H.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, Q. NiFe Alloy Nanoparticles with hcp Crystal Structure Stimulate Superior Oxygen Evolution Reaction Electrocatalytic Activity. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 6099‒6103.
- [47] Veziroglu, T. N. Conversion to Hydrogen Economy. *Energy Procedia* **2012**, *29*, 654‒656.
- [48] Li, Y.; Abbott, J.; Sun, Y.; Sun, J.; Du, Y.; Han, X.; Wu, G.; Xu, P. Ru nanoassembly catalysts for hydrogen evolution and oxidation reactions in electrolytes at various pH values. *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2019**, *258*, 117952.
- [49] Liu, G.; Zhou, W.; Chen, B.; Zhang, Q.; Cui, X.; Li, B.; Lai, Z.; Chen, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Gu, L.; Zhang, H. Synthesis of RuNi alloy nanostructures composed of multilayered nanosheets for highly efficient electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution. *Nano Energy* **2019**, *66*, 104173.

- [50] Li, M.; Wang, H.; Zhu, W.; Li, W.; Wang, C.; Lu, X. RuNi Nanoparticles Embedded in N-Doped Carbon Nanofibers as a Robust Bifunctional Catalyst for Efficient Overall Water Splitting. *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1901833.
- [51] Yang, Y.; Sun, X.; Han, G.; Liu, X.; Zhang, X.; Sun, Y.; Zhang, M.; Cao, Z.; Sun, Y. Enhanced Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Oxidation on Ni/NiO/C Derived from a Nick*. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.***2019**, *58*, 10644‒10649.
- [52] Xue, Y.; Shi, L.; Liu, X.; Fang, J.; Wang, X.; Setzler, B. P.; Zhu, W.; Yan, Y.; Zhuang, Z. A highly-active, stable and low-cost platinum-free anode catalyst based on RuNi for hydroxide exchange membrane fuel cells. *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651.
- [53] Uhlenbrock, S.; Scharfschwerdt, C.; Neumann, M.; Illing, G.; Freund, H.-J. The influence of defects on the Ni 2p and 0 1s XPS of NiO. *Phys. Condens. Matter* **1992**, *4*, 7973‒7978.
- [54] Smith, M.; Scudiero, L.; Espinal, J.; McEwen, J.-S.; Garcia-Perez, M. Improving the deconvolution and interpretation of XPS spectra from chars by *ab initio* calculations. *Carbon* **2016**, *110*, 155‒171.
- [55] Guo, L. Q.; Qin, S. X.; Yang, B. J.; Liang, D.; Qiao, L. J. Effect of hydrogen on semiconductive properties of passive film on ferrite and austenite phases in a duplex stainless steel. *Sci. Rep.* **2017**, *7*, 3317.
- [56] Kora, A. J.; Rastogi, L. Bacteriogenic synthesis of selenium nanoparticles by Escherichia coli ATCC 35218 and its structural characterisation. *IET Nanobiotechnol.* **2017**, *11*, 179‒184.
- [57] Strmcnik, D.; Uchimura, M.; Wang, C.; Subbaraman, R.; Danilovic, N.; Van der Vliet, D.; Paulikas, A. P.; Stamenkovic, V. R.; Markovic, N. M. Improving the hydrogen oxidation reaction rate by promotion of hydroxyl adsorption. *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300‒306.
- [58] Deng, J.; Deng, D.; Bao, X. Robust Catalysis on 2D Materials Encapsulating Metals: Concept, Application, and Perspective. *Adv. Mater.*  **2017**, *29*, 1606967.

Manuscript received: June 18, 2021 Manuscript revised: September 13, 2021 Manuscript accepted: September 22, 2021 Accepted manuscript online: September 28, 2021