---
source: Zhang 等 - 2024 - Symmetry Evolution Induced 2D Pt Single Atom Catalyst with High Density for Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidat.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 4.631s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:47:09.533875Z
---

# **Symmetry Evolution Induced 2D Pt Single Atom Catalyst with High Density for Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation**

*Haoran Zhang, Feng Wu, Rui Huang, Xiaokang Liu, Zhiwen Zhang, Tao Yao, Yu Zhang,\* and Yuen Wu\**

**The performance of single-atom catalysts is greatly influenced by the chemical environment surrounding the central atom. Here, a salt-assisted method is employed to transform the tetrahedral coordination structure of zeolitic imidazolate frameworks - 8 (ZIF-8) into a planar square coordination structure without altering the ligands. During the subsequent carbonization process, concurrent with the evaporation of zinc atoms, the structure of the nitrogen and carbon carriers (NC carriers) undergoes a transition from five-membered rings to six-membered rings to preserve the 2D structure. This transition results in the generation of additional defect sites on the 2D-NC substrates. Hence, the Pt single-atom catalysts with planar square coordination symmetries can be precisely prepared via electrodeposition (denoted as 2D-Pt SAC). The Pt loading of 2D-Pt SAC is 0.49 ± 0.03 μg cm<sup>−</sup>2, higher than that of 3D-Pt SAC (0.37 ± 0.04 μg cm<sup>−</sup>2). In the context of the hydrogen oxidation reaction electrocatalysis, under an overpotential of 50 mV, these single-atom catalysts with 2D coordination exhibit mass activities of 2396 A gPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (32 times higher than commercial Pt/C catalyst, 2 times higher than 3D-PtNC).**

H. Zhang, F. Wu, R. Huang, Z. Zhang, Y. Wu Department of Endocrinology The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC Division of Life Sciences and Medicine University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230001, China E-mail: [yuenwu@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:yuenwu@ustc.edu.cn)

X. Liu, T. Yao

National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China

Y. Zhang

Department of Endocrinology Institute of Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC Division of Life Sciences and Medicine University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230001, China

E-mail: [zy11260@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:zy11260@ustc.edu.cn)

Y. Wu

Deep Space Exploration Laboratory/School of Chemistry and Materials Science

University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202404672>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202404672**

# **1. Introduction**

The progression of proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) has indeed been remarkable. However, it faces challenges in keeping pace with the escalating costs of the entire system, primarily attributed to the high price of platinum and other expensive components.[\[1–3\]](#page-6-0) Despite extensive research aimed at reducing platinum content in catalysts, PEMFC costs continue to fall short of the targets for large-scale applications.[\[4\]](#page-6-0) By contrast, hydroxide exchange membrane fuel cells (HEMFCs) emerge as a promising solution to mitigate costs.[\[1\]](#page-6-0) The distinctive alkaline environment of HEMFCs not only enhances the corrosion resistance of catalysts but also allows for the selection of more economical bipolar plates and coatings due to the nonacidic surroundings.[\[5\]](#page-6-0) Moreover, hydrocarbon-based membranes in HEMFCs offer a significant cost advantage over perfluorinated membranes and the cathodic oxygen reduction catalysts.[\[6\]](#page-6-0)

Nevertheless, the challenges in the anodic situation are profound in the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR).[\[7–9\]](#page-6-0) The catalytic difficulty of HOR significantly increases in alkaline conditions, and the catalytic activity of platinum-free catalysts is far from comparable to platinum.[\[10,11\]](#page-7-0) Even the most active platinum group metals (PGMs) exhibit a reduction in HOR performance by an average of two orders of magnitude in alkaline environments compared to acidic conditions.[\[12–14\]](#page-7-0) Despite significant efforts in recent years to develop non-PGM-based catalysts, HEMFCs still rely on PGM catalysts.[\[14,15\]](#page-7-0) The sluggish HOR kinetics in alkaline media further necessitates higher metal loading in HEM-FCs to achieve the desired performance.[\[16\]](#page-7-0) Extensive work has been undertaken to modify catalysts with the aim of reducing the loading of precious metals in PGM-based catalysts, achieving significant progress through strategies such as introducing heterostructures,[\[5,17\]](#page-6-0) defect engineering,[\[18,19\]](#page-7-0) and doping.[\[20,21\]](#page-7-0) Over the past decade, the rapid advancement of single-atom catalysts, characterized by extremely high atom efficiency, presents a promising solution to this challenge.[\[22,23\]](#page-7-0)

In comparison to 3D materials, 2D single-atom materials offer increased surface exposure and possess notable advantages in facilitating reactant mass and electron transfer.[\[24\]](#page-7-0) The synthesis of 2D single-atom catalysts typically involves the deposition of metal single atoms onto 2D supports such as graphene[\[25\]](#page-7-0) and MoS2. [\[26\]](#page-7-0) **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 31, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202404672 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

However, conventional methods, owing to the regular planar structure of these supports, primarily rely on their inherent defects (e.g., oxygen,[\[27,28\]](#page-7-0) nitrogen,[\[29,30\]](#page-7-0) and sulfur defects[\[27,31\]](#page-7-0) ) to capture metal atoms. This hindered the production of highdensity single-atom materials. Currently, the development of simple and effective methods to enhance the surface defects of catalysts and achieve the synthesis of higher density singleatom catalysts poses a significant challenge. In this study, without altering the ligands, we transformed the tetrahedral structure of zeolitic imidazolate frameworks - 8 (ZIF-8) into a planar square coordination through a salt-assisted method.[\[32,33\]](#page-7-0) During the subsequent high-temperature carbonization process, concomitant with the evaporation of zinc atoms, the 2D nitrogendoped carbon (2D-NC) carrier undergoes a transition from a fivemembered ring to a six-membered ring to maintain its 2D structure. This transition results in the introduction of a greater number of defect sites into the final 2D-NC structure compared to 3D-NC. Following this process, nearly all nitrogen atoms in the 2D-NC structure transform into pyridine N within the six-membered rings, whereas the 3D-NC carrier, which does not undergo this transition, retains a substantial portion of graphite N that is unavailable for coordination and pyrrole N within five-membered rings. Subsequently, by employing high-temperature carbonization and electrodeposition, we obtained two types of Pt singleatom catalysts corresponding to the respective coordination environments (denoted as 2D-Pt SAC and 3D-Pt SAC). In the HOR performance tests, 2D catalyst exhibits better performance than 3D catalyst. The 2D-Pt SAC catalyst demonstrates an exchange current density of 1.47 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a mass activity at a 50 mV overpotential reaching 2396 A g<sup>−</sup>1, a remarkable 32 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C catalysts. This breakthrough marks a significant stride toward cost-effective and efficient HEMFCs and paves the way for sustainable energy solutions.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of 2D-Pt SAC**

ZIF-8 serves as a frequently employed carrier for single-atom catalysts, featuring a structure where the central Zn atom exhibits tetrahedral symmetry by coordinating with N atoms from the ligand 2-methylimidazole, forming a macroscopic rhombic dodecahedron structure.[\[34,35\]](#page-7-0) Typically, ZIF-8 undergoes carbonization at temperatures higher than the boiling point of zinc, accompanied by the evaporation of Zn atoms, creating vacancies that allow for the ingress of metal atoms.[\[22\]](#page-7-0) In this study, we employed a salt-induced method[\[32,33\]](#page-7-0) to treat ZIF-8 to regulate the symmetry of the central atom. Initially, it was heated at a relatively low temperature to transform its coordination mode from tetrahedral to planar square, and subsequently carbonized at high temperatures to allow Zn atoms to evaporate, resulting in a layered material. Finally, Pt single-atom catalysts were deposited within the vacancies through electrodeposition, yielding the 2D-Pt SAC material, as schematically illustrated in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) Figure [1b](#page-2-0) displays the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of 2D-Pt SAC, illustrating its layered structure. Atomic force microscopy was employed to investigate the thickness of this layered structure, revealing ≈2.1 nm (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0). Energydispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) confirmed the uniform distribution of Pt within the NC carrier. Elemental mapping results are depicted in Figure [1d,](#page-2-0) indicating the uniform distribution of each element. Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images (Figure [1e–g\)](#page-2-0) revealed the presence of atomic-dispersed Pt atoms in 2D-Pt SAC, owing to the higher *Z*-contrast of Pt compared to N and C. The selected area electron diffraction pattern displayed a ring pattern (Figure S1, Supporting Information), indicating the relatively poor crystallinity of 2D-Pt SAC.

In the salt-induced transformation processing, the heating temperature was set at 310 °C, exceeding the melting point of the NaNO3 molten salt used (307 °C). In 2 h, the gradual destruction of the rhombic dodecahedral structure of ZIF-8 is observed. The structures are gradually interconnected, ultimately transforming into a 2D sheet-like structure (denoted as 2D-ZnNC, Figure S2, Supporting Information). The obtained 2D-ZnNC after the 3D– 2D evolution process was dissolved in hydrochloric acid, and the corresponding NMR tests were conducted. The peaks belonging to dimethylimidazole is identical to ZIF-8 (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0). This result indicates that the 3D–2D evolution only changes the coordination symmetry around the Zn atoms without affecting the structure of the ligands. The structures of 2D-ZnNC and 3D-ZnNC are further characterized by the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements, and Figure [2b,c](#page-3-0) shows the Zn K-edge XAFS spectra of 2D-ZnNC, 3D-ZnNC, and Zn foil. At around 9665 eV, only the 2D-ZnNC sample exhibited a pre-edge peak. In the absence of axial coordination of zinc atoms, the pre-edge peak of the Zn K-edge is related to the 1s to 4p*<sup>z</sup>* transition.[\[36\]](#page-7-0) This is a characteristic peak of planar square coordination,[\[37\]](#page-7-0) which demonstrated the planar coordination of Zn atom in 2D-ZnNC. The crystal structure of ZIF-8 is tetrahedral coordination.[\[18\]](#page-7-0) In Figure [2d,](#page-3-0) the Zn K edge spectra in *R*-space of 2D-ZnNC and 3D-ZnNC were analyzed, and no Zn─Zn coordination peak was observed. A coordination peak for Zn─N was observed at ≈1.5 Å, indicating that Zn exists in a single-atom state within the carrier. According to the results (Figure S3 and Table S1 in the Supporting Information for fitting, Figure S4 in the Supporting Information for *k*-space), the Zn─C/N bond lengths for both samples are 2.01 Å, with a coordination number of 4.1. Subsequently, we subjected 2D-ZnNC to heat treatment at 900 °C to evaporate Zn and create vacancies (see Figure S5 in the Supporting Information for TEM photos). X-ray photoelectron spectrpscopy (XPS) analysis of the heat-treated 2D-NC and 3D-NC revealed that the proportion of pyridine N in 3D-NC is 33%, respectively, while the proportion of pyridine N in 2D-NC is 90% (**Figure 3**[e\)](#page-4-0). Since pyrrole is a five-membered ring and pyridine is a six-membered ring, the six-membered rings are beneficial to the formation of planar 2D structure. During the heat treatment process, 2D-ZnNC undergoes more structural transitions from five-membered to sixmembered rings to maintain the planar structure. This result is consistent with our electron microscopy findings in Figure [1](#page-2-0) and the symmetry analysis of XAFS. At the same time, there is less graphite N in 2D-NC (4% in 2D-NC while 30% in 3D-NC), indicating that more vacancies are generated after the 3D– 2D evolution. The aforementioned findings suggest that during the thermal-driven evolution from 3D to 2D structures, there is a notable alteration in the coordination environment surrounding the zinc atom, transitioning from tetrahedral coordination to planar square coordination. Subsequently, during the ensuing

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematics of preparation of 2D-Pt SAC. b) Transmission electron microscopy image for 2D-Pt SAC. c) Atomic force microscopy image for 2D-Pt SAC. d) Scanning transmission electron microscopy image and EDX elemental mapping analysis. e,f) HAADF-STEM image for 2D-Pt SAC. g) 3D intensity surface plot of the Pt single atom in (f) and the corresponding intensity of line profile of dotted line.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) 1H-NMR spectroscopy of 2D-ZnNC and 3D-ZnNC (ZIF-8) dissolved in hydrochloric acid. b,c) Zn K-edge EXAFS spectra in *E*-space for 2D-ZnNC, 3D-ZnNC, and Zn foil. d) Zn K-edge EXAFS spectra in *R*-space recorded for 2D-ZnNC, 3D-ZnNC, and Zn foil. e) XPS spectra for 2D-NC and 3D-NC. f) Pt L3-edge EXAFS spectra in *R*-space recorded for 2D-Pt SAC, 3D-Pt SAC, and Pt foil.

carbonization process, the evaporation and removal of zinc atoms facilitate the transformation of the carrier from five-membered rings to six-membered rings. Dimethylimidazole, a ligand featuring a five-membered ring, necessitates substantial structural distortion and disruption to uphold the stability of a 2D structure such as 2D-NC. Consequently, this significant structural rearrangement leads to a higher density of defects within the 2D-NC structure compared to that of 3D-NC.

After obtaining the 2D layered carrier, a three-electrode system was employed for the electrodeposition of single platinum atoms. The XAFS spectra for the obtained catalysts in *R*-space are shown in Figure 2f. The results indicated that both 2D-Pt SAC and 3D-Pt SAC only exhibited a Pt─C/N peak, with no evidence of a Pt─Pt peak, suggesting that Pt exists in a single-atom state within the carrier. The coordination numbers of Pt and N or C in 2D-Pt SAC and 3D-Pt SAC are 3.7 and 3.8, respectively, and the bond distances for Pt─C/N are 2.03 and 2.02, respectively (see Figure S6 in the Supporting Information for near-edge spectra, Figure S4 in the Supporting Information for *k*-space, fitting data in Figure S7 and Table S1 in the Supporting Information). The 3D-Pt SAC HAADF-STEM image and related EDX element mapping are shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information).

The electrodeposition potential range was set between −0.35 and −0.20 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), allowing for the occurrence of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). The deposited Pt atoms demonstrated a promotional effect on HER, leading to a gradual increase in current density during the deposition process. This increase intuitively reflects the deposition of Pt atoms. As depicted in Figure [3a,](#page-4-0) a linear relationship between current density and deposition cycles is observed on the 2D-NC substrate up to 40 cycles. However, beyond 40 cycles, this linear correlation is disrupted, accompanied by a significant decrease in the rate of increase in current density. Considering the median value of the deposited potential as −0.28V and observing the corresponding current for various deposition cycles, a clear linear relationship between the number of deposition cycles and the current is initially apparent. However, this linear trend is disrupted after 40 deposition cycles, attributed to the saturation of single-atom sites, leading to Pt deposition in cluster form thereafter. To corroborate this observation, HAADF-STEM images of 2D-Pt SAC at different deposition cycles were obtained (Figure [3c–f\)](#page-4-0). At lower deposition cycles, Pt atoms are observed to be deposited onto the substrate in a single-atomic state. However, upon reaching 50 cycles, the formation of some small clusters becomes evident (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0). At 100 cycles, the emergence of crystalline structures on the layered substrate is conspicuous (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0). The HAADF-STEM image confirms the lattice existence of Pt clusters (Figure S9, Supporting Information). Similarly, as illustrated in Figure S10 (Supporting Information), a comparable phenomenon is observed on the 3D-NC substrate, albeit reaching single-atom deposition saturation earlier (about 30 cycles), possibly due to fewer sites resulting from

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Polarization curves of Pt deposition process for 2D-Pt SAC. b) Relationship curve between deposition current and deposition cycles for 2D-Pt SAC. c–f) HAADF-STEM images of 2D-Pt SAC under different deposition cycles. g) Schematic diagram of the mechanism of 3D–2D evolution and the corresponding carbonization process.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) HOR polarization curves of 2D-Pt SAC, 3D-Pt SAC, and commercial Pt/C catalysts in H2-saturated aqueous solution of 0.1 m KOH with a rotating rate of 1600 rpm at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. b) Representative HOR/HER Tafel plots of kinetic current density (*j* k) for 2D-Pt SAC, 3D-Pt SAC, and commercial Pt/C catalysts. c) Exchange current density for 2D-Pt SAC, 3D-Pt SAC, and commercial Pt/C catalysts. d) Mass activity for 2D-Pt SAC under different deposition cycles. e) Mass activity for 2D-Pt SAC, 3D-Pt SAC, and commercial Pt/C catalysts. f) The Gibbs free energy of H adsorption (∆*G*H*\**) on PtNC catalyst and Pt(111).

increased graphite carbon. Figure S10c–f (Supporting Information) displays HAADF-STEM images after different deposition cycles. At lower cycles, Pt atoms deposited on the 3D substrate also exist in a single-atomic state. However, upon reaching 50 cycles, Pt clusters become more pronounced compared to 2D substrates, with even a small amount of lattice observed. After 100 cycles, clear metal crystalline structures are observed on the ZIF-8 substrate. Consequently, we set the deposition cycles for single-atom Pt to be 30 cycles. The Pt loading of the electrodeposited samples in single-atom saturated state was analyzed by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES), revealing that in 2D-Pt SAC-40cycles, the Pt loading is 0.61 ± 0.05 μg cm<sup>−</sup>2, and in 3D-Pt SAC-30cycles, the Pt loading is 0.37 ± 0.04 μg cm<sup>−</sup>2. This result suggests that the 2D-NC carrier possesses a greater number of defect sites available for Pt single-atom loading, a conclusion in alignment with the findings from XPS and XAFS analyses. During the carbonization process, the removal of zinc atoms results in the creation of vacancies. To preserve the planar structure, the 2D carrier must undergo a transition from a five-membered ring to a six-membered ring. This transition leads to the conversion of nearly all nitrogen atoms into pyridine N within the six-membered rings, thereby providing additional defect sites. The schematic representation of this process is illustrated in Figure [3g.](#page-4-0)

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Performance in HOR**

After electrodeposition, the catalytic performance of the 2D-Pt SAC catalyst for the HOR was directly studied in 0.1 m KOH and H2-saturated solution using a three-electrode system. The obtained data underwent IR correction. The polarization curves of 2D-Pt SAC, 3D-Pt SAC, and Pt/C in H2-saturated electrolyte are shown in **Figure 4**a. For the tests of the three catalysts in a saturated argon gas atmosphere (Figure S11, Supporting Information), no anodic current was observed, confirming that the anodic current above 0 V was provided by the HOR reaction. The initial potential of 2D-Pt SAC was as low as 0 V, and the limiting current density was nearly identical to that of commercial Pt/C, with an overpotential to reach the limiting current 0.05 V lower than that of commercial Pt/C. Both 2D-NC and 3D-NC carriers without Pt atoms did not exhibit HOR catalytic activity (Figure S12, Supporting Information), indicating that Pt atoms are active sites for catalyzing HOR reactions. At the same potential, 2D-Pt SAC exhibits the highest current density, indicating that 2D-Pt SAC has higher catalytic performance. Both 2D-Pt SAC and 3D-Pt SAC catalysts have better current density than commercial Pt/C. We hypothesize that the performance advantage of the planar coordination structure is attributable to an increased number of active sites and to steric <span id="page-6-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

hindrance effects. The planar coordination structure facilitates the relatively facile adsorption of hydrogen, whereas the 3D coordination structure poses greater challenges for H2 adsorption and activation.

The HOR kinetics current of the catalyst is shown in Figure [4b](#page-5-0) using the Koutecky–Levich and Butler–Volmer equations. At an overpotential of 5 mV, the kinetic current of 2D-Pt SAC reached 6.04 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> disk, significantly higher than 3D-Pt SAC and commercial Pt/C. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of the catalyst is presented in Figure S13 (Supporting Information). The normalized exchange current density (*j* 0) attributed to ECSA was determined by fitting the data using Butler–Volmer equations (Figure S14, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [4c,](#page-5-0) 2D-Pt SAC exhibited an exchange current density of 1.47 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, higher than 3D-Pt SAC (1.06 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and commercial Pt/C (0.54 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Combining the Pt loading data from ICP, the mass activity can be derived. After reaching 40 deposition cycles, the mass activity significantly decreased due to the generation of Pt clusters leading to a decrease in Pt atom utilization (Figure [4d\)](#page-5-0). Figure [4e](#page-5-0) shows that 2D-Pt SAC (30 cycles) demonstrated exceptionally high mass activity of 2396 A gPt<sup>−</sup>1, which is twice than that of 3D-Pt SAC (30 cycles, 1286 A gPt−1) and 32 times that of commercial Pt/C (75 A gPt−1). Compared to reported performances in other literature, 2D-Pt SAC exhibits nearly the best outstanding performance, as summarized in Table S2 (Supporting Information). To gain further insights into the origin of the catalyst's activity, we conducted density functional theory calculations. Based on the structures obtained from results of XAFS, we calculated the Gibbs free energy of H adsorption (∆*G*H*\**) on PtNC catalyst and Pt(111), which is an important criterion for HOR activity. Since XAFS testing cannot distinguish Pt─N from Pt─C coordination, we performed calculations for the Pt─N1C3, Pt─N2C2, Pt─N3C1, and Pt─N4 coordination scenarios (structures in Figure S15 in the Supporting Information). As depicted in Figure [4e,](#page-5-0) the structures of Pt─N1C3, Pt─N2C2, and Pt─N3C1 exhibit catalytic capabilities close to or better than that of Pt(111). This result indicates the excellent catalytic ability of Pt single-atom catalyst for HOR. The tetrahedral structure is unable to adsorb H2 molecules, indicating that its spatial configuration is unfavorable for the HOR reaction.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we employed a salt-induced method to induce the evolution of the tetrahedral coordination structure of ZIF-8 into a planar square configuration, while retaining the integrity of the ligands. During the subsequent carbonization process, additional defects were introduced onto the 2D nitrogendoped carbon support by leveraging the structural transition from 5-membered rings to 6-membered rings. Subsequently, high-density 2D single-atom catalysts containing platinum were prepared via electrodeposition. In the context of the HOR catalysis under alkaline conditions, we achieved a mass activity of 2396 A gPt−1, which represents a 32-fold increase compared to commercial platinum carbon and a twofold enhancement relative to 3D-Pt SAC catalysts. These findings offer valuable insights into addressing cost-related challenges in efficient HEMFCs, thereby paving the way for sustainable energy.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (Grant No. 2022YFB4002001), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 92261105 and 22221003), the Key Program of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. U23A2081), the Anhui Provincial Natural Science Foundation (Grant Nos. 2108085UD06, 2208085UD04), the Anhui Provincial Key Research and Development Project (Grant Nos. 2023z04020010, 2022a05020053), and the Joint Funds from the Hefei National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (Grant Nos. KY2060000180 and KY2060000195). The authors also acknowledge the photoemission end stations BL14W1 in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) for providing assistance in characterization.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Author Contributions**

Y.W. conceived and designed the experiments. H.Z., R.H., and Z.Z. performed the synthesis of catalysts and catalytic performance. Z.Z. helped with the spherical aberration electron microscopy tests and discussion. H.Z., X.L., and T.Y. designed and performed the XAFS experiments. H.Z. wrote the paper. All of the authors discussed the results and commented on the paper.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the Supporting Information of this article.

# **Keywords**

defects, hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR), single-atom catalysts (SACs), symmetry control

> Received: March 31, 2024 Revised: April 11, 2024 Published online: May 1, 2024

- [1] J. R. Varcoe, R. C. Slade, *Fuel Cells.* **2005**, *5*, 187.
- [2] H. T. Chung, J. H. Won, P. Zelenay, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 1922.
- [3] Y. J. Sa, C. Park, H. Y. Jeong, S. H. Park, Z. Lee, K. T. Kim, G. G. Park, S. H. Joo, *Angew. Chem.* **2014**, *126*, 4186.
- [4] M. Piana, M. Boccia, A. Filpi, E. Flammia, H. A. Miller, M. Orsini, F. Salusti, S. Santiccioli, F. Ciardelli, A. Pucci, *J. Power Sources.* **2010**, *195*, 5875.
- [5] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.
- [6] J. Wang, Y. Zhao, B. P. Setzler, S. Rojas-Carbonell, C. Ben Yehuda, A. Amel, M. Page, L. Wang, K. Hu, L. Shi, *Nat. Energy.* **2019**, *4*, 392.
- [7] L. Su, D. Gong, N. Yao, Y. Li, Z. Li, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2106156.

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>[8] Y. Yang, X. Sun, G. Han, X. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10644.
- [9] B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, L. Xia, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400.
- [10] S. Zhu, X. Qin, F. Xiao, S. Yang, Y. Xu, Z. Tan, J. Li, J. Yan, Q. Chen, M. Chen, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 711.
- [11] L. An, X. Zhao, T. Zhao, D. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 2620.
- [12] J. Zhang, X. Qu, L. Shen, G. Li, T. Zhang, J. Zheng, L. Ji, W. Yan, Y. Han, X. Cheng, *Small.* **2021**, *17*, 2006698.
- [13] S. Deng, X. Liu, X. Guo, T. Zhao, Y. Lu, J. Cheng, K. Chen, T. Shen, Y. Zhu, D. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *54*, 202.
- [14] Y. Duan, Z.-Y. Yu, L. Yang, L.-R. Zheng, C.-T. Zhang, X.-T. Yang, F.-Y. Gao, X.-L. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789.
- [15] M. Wang, H. Yang, J. Shi, Y. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. Wang, S. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhong, T. Cheng, *Angew. Chem.* **2021**, *133*, 5835.
- [16] I. Ledezma-Yanez, W. D. Z. Wallace, P. Sebastián-Pascual, V. Climent, J. M. Feliu, M. Koper, *Nat. Energy.* **2017**, *2*, 17031.
- [17] R. K. Singh, E. S. Davydova, J. Douglin, A. O. Godoy, H. Tan, M. Bellini, B. J. Allen, J. Jankovic, H. A. Miller, A. C. Alba-Rubio, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2002087.
- [18] H. Huang, K. Liu, F. Yang, J. Cai, S. Wang, W. Chen, Q. Wang, L. Fu, Z. Xie, S. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202315752.
- [19] L. Su, Y. Jin, D. Gong, X. Ge, W. Zhang, X. Fan, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202215585.
- [20] Y. H. Wang, X. T. Wang, H. Ze, X. G. Zhang, P. M. Radjenovic, Y. J. Zhang, J. C. Dong, Z. Q. Tian, J. F. Li, *Angew. Chem.* **2021**, *133*, 5772.
- [21] Y. Qiu, L. Xin, Y. Li, I. T. McCrum, F. Guo, T. Ma, Y. Ren, Q. Liu, L. Zhou, S. Gu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 16580.

- [22] X. Wang, Z. Chen, X. Zhao, T. Yao, W. Chen, R. You, C. Zhao, G. Wu, J. Wang, W. Huang, *Angew. Chem.* **2018**, *130*, 1962.
- [23] P. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, *Angew. Chem.* **2016**, *128*, 10958.
- [24] H. Lin, W. Qiu, J. Liu, L. Yu, S. Gao, H. Yao, Y. Chen, J. Shi, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903013.
- [25] H. Fei, J. Dong, Y. Feng, C. S. Allen, C. Wan, B. Volosskiy, M. Li, Z. Zhao, Y. Wang, H. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 63.
- [26] X. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Si, Q. Zhang, J. Wu, L. Gao, X. Wei, Y. Sun, Q. Liao, Z. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 4298.
- [27] C. Tang, Y. Jiao, B. Shi, J. N. Liu, Z. Xie, X. Chen, Q. Zhang, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem.* **2020**, *132*, 9256.
- [28] Z. Xue, M. Yan, Y. Zhang, J. Xu, X. Gao, Y. Wu, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2023**, *325*, 122303.
- [29] Y. Jia, J. Chen, X. Yao, *Mater. Chem. Front.* **2018**, *2*, 1250.
- [30] Y. Chen, R. Ding, J. Li, J. Liu, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2022**, *301*, 120830.
- [31] H. Zhou, Y. Zhao, J. Gan, J. Xu, Y. Wang, H. Lv, S. Fang, Z. Wang, Z. Deng, X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 12643.
- [32] L. Wang, X. Gao, S. Wang, C. Chen, J. Song, X. Ma, T. Yao, H. Zhou, Y. Wu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 13462.
- [33] G. Wu, X. Zheng, P. Cui, H. Jiang, X. Wang, Y. Qu, W. Chen, Y. Lin, H. Li, X. Han, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4855.
- [34] Y.-R. Lee, M.-S. Jang, H.-Y. Cho, H.-J. Kwon, S. Kim, W.-S. Ahn, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2015**, *271*, 276.
- [35] D. Saliba, M. Ammar, M. Rammal, M. Al-Ghoul, M. Hmadeh, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 1812.
- [36] H. Tanida, H. Nagatani, I. Watanabe, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2003**, *118*, 10369.
- [37] H. Nagatani, H. Tanida, I. Watanabe, T. Sagara, *Anal. Sci.* **2009**, *25*, 475.