---
source: Zhang 等 - 2025 - Core‐Shell Structure of Ni17 W3 @W Induced High Intrinsic Activity and Stabili.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 78.738s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:48:28.274171Z
---

# **Core-Shell Structure of Ni17W3@W Induced High Intrinsic Activity and Stability for Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation**

*Yunlong Zhang, Yang Yang, Pin Meng, Jiahe Yang, Hongda Shi, Xingyan Chen, Xi Lin, Dingge Fan, Siyan Chen, Dongdong Wang, and Qianwang Chen\**

**Hydrogen energy has attracted considerable attention due to its zero emissions and high conversion efficiency. However, the sluggish anodic kinetics in anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) necessitate the use of high-load platinum-group metal (PGM) catalysts, significantly increasing system cost. Herein, a nickel-based electrocatalyst of Ni17W3@W with a unique core-shell structure is reported, which exhibits outstanding intrinsic activity with an electrochemical surface area-normalized exchange current density of 0.072 mA cmNi<sup>−</sup>2. Compared to commercial Pt/C, Ni17W3@W also demonstrates superior CO tolerance and long-term operational stability. X-ray absorption spectroscopy and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy reveal an increased valence state of Ni in Ni17W3@W, leading to a downshift of d-band center and a corresponding decrease in hydrogen binding energy. In situ surface enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy confirms that the W shell optimizes the interfacial water structure, enhancing the hydrogen-bonding network and further promoting the hydrogen oxidation reaction. Moreover, the porous W shell serves as a protective barrier, effectively preventing oxidation of the Ni17W3 core and ensuring long-term catalyst durability. This work offers valuable insights for the rational design of high-performance non-PGM anode catalysts in AEMFCs.**

## **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen-oxygen fuel cell technology is considered a promising energy solution due to its high energy conversion efficiency and sustainability.[[1\]](#page-7-0) Currently, hydrogen-oxygen fuel cells typically operate in acidic environments, which necessitate the use of costly acid-resistant components and PGM catalysts to ensure stable catalytic performance.[\[2\]](#page-7-0) This significantly raises the overall cost of proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). However, the rapid advancement of anion exchange membranes has drawn increasing attention to AEMFCs.[\[3\]](#page-7-0) Compared to PEM-FCs, a major advantage of AEMFCs is their ability to utilize

Y. Zhang, Y. Yang, P. Meng, J. Yang, H. Shi, X. Chen, X. Lin, D. Fan, S. Chen, D. Wang, Q. Chen

Hefei National Research Center for Physical Sciences at the Microscale and Department of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China

Hefei 230026, China E-mail: [cqw@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:cqw@ustc.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202506274>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202506274**

inexpensive non-precious metals as catalysts.[\[4\]](#page-7-0) While many excellent nonprecious catalysts have emerged for the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction in AEMFCs,[\[5\]](#page-7-0) the kinetics of the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline conditions are 2-3 orders of magnitude slower than those in acidic conditions.[\[6\]](#page-7-0) Therefore, developing lowcost anode catalysts is crucial for advancing the efficiency and viability of AEMFCs.[\[7\]](#page-7-0)

At present, various theories have been proposed to elucidate the mechanism of the HOR under alkaline conditions. Among them, the Volmer step (H\* + OH<sup>−</sup> → H2O + e<sup>−</sup>) is generally regarded as the rate determining step, making the desorption of adsorbed hydrogen (Had) a crucial process. The hydrogen binding energy (HBE) theory establishes a correlation between the HBE on the catalyst surface and the desorption ability of catalysts-Had with stronger HBE tend to hinder the Volmer step, thus slowing down the

overall reaction.[\[8](#page-7-0)] This theory has been successfully applied to explain the deteriorating HOR/HER performance of noble metals with increasing pH.[\[9\]](#page-7-0) However, since HBE is an intrinsic property of the material and should be independent of the electrolyte environment, Zheng et al. further introduced the HBEapp theory, where HBEapp = HBE − WBE, incorporating the Gibbs free energy of interfacial water desorption (WBE) as a more accurate descriptor.[\[10\]](#page-7-0) In addition, the hydroxide binding energy (OHBE) on the catalyst surface has also been reported to significantly influence the reaction kinetics.[\[11\]](#page-7-0) Notably, recent studies have shown that introducing caffeine into the electrolyte can accelerate the HOR/HER kinetics of Pt/C catalysts, further highlighting the essential role of interfacial water structure in determining reaction activity.[\[12\]](#page-7-0)

Previous studies have identified nickel-based catalysts as promising materials for the HOR in alkaline conditions. These catalysts can generally be categorized into three main types: Ni-C catalysts,[\[13\]](#page-7-0) Ni-based alloy catalysts,[\[14\]](#page-7-0) and Ni-oxide-supported catalysts.[\[7b,15\]](#page-7-0) However, nickel-based catalysts face two significant challenges. First, their intrinsic activity is relatively low, requiring a high loading to achieve performance comparable to PGM catalysts. Second, the active Ni sites on their surface are easily passivated by oxygen species (e.g., O2, OH<sup>−</sup>), leading to poor long-term stability. To address these issues, various strategies

16136829, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202506274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-1-0"></span>

**Figure 1.** Synthesis and physical characterization of Ni17W3@W. a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Ni17W3@W. b) TEM-EDX elemental mapping of Ni17W3@W. Scale bars, 30 nm. c) elemental line scanning of a representative Ni17W3@W. d) HRTEM image of Ni17W3@W. Scale bars, 2 nm. e) XRD patterns of Ni17W3@W (up) and Ni17W3-W (down). f) TGA analysis of Ni@NiWO4. g) Ni 3p SRPES spectra of the Ni17W3@W with different photon energies.

have been proposed. Some studies suggest that alloying Ni with other metals can optimize its electronic structure,[\[14c\]](#page-7-0) thereby enhancing its intrinsic activity. Additionally, reports have shown that encapsulating Ni in carbon structures can significantly improve catalyst stability.[\[16\]](#page-7-0) The intrinsically low activity of Ni-based catalysts primarily originates from the mismatch of HBE and WBE. To address this limitation, alloying engineering was employed to modulate the electronic structure of surface Ni sites, inducing a downshift in the d-band center. Concurrently, coreshell architecture design was implemented to optimize interfacial water adsorption for enhanced WBE. Notably, the shell component in this configuration serves dual functions, not only as a protective barrier safeguarding internal Ni active sites against oxidative dissolution, thereby improving durability; but also as a structural promoter regulating water network reorganization to enhanced electrode-electrolyte interfacial connectivity. Guided by this mechanistic framework, we successfully synthesized a Ni-W intermetallic compound with tailored core-shell architecture, denoted as Ni17W3@W.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Physical Characterizations**

The synthesis of Ni17W3@W follows a straightforward twostep process (**Figure 1**a). Initially, the precursor material is synthesized using a one-pot method, where the reducing nature of ethylene glycol converts nickel ions into nickel particles.[\[17\]](#page-7-0) Subsequently, NiWO4 forms in situ as a shell around the nickel particles, resulting in Ni@NiWO4 (Figures S1, Supporting Information). During the subsequent hydrogen annealing process, some nickel and W from the shell are reduced and diffuse

\_small

16136829, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20256274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are govern

inward to form  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3}$ . This process continues until the shell's W is completely reduced, yielding the unique  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3@W}$  coreshell structure (Figures S2, Supporting Information). For comparison, we also synthesized a precursor using deionized water under identical conditions, which did not produce a nickel core during the precursor synthesis. Consequently, the final product lacked a core-shell structure and is designated  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3\text{-}W}$ .

The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information) reveal that Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W predominantly features spherical particles with an approximate diameter of 30 nm. As shown in Figure 1b, the elemental mapping results exhibit a distinct core-shell structure, supported by line-scan results in Figure 1c, which confirm the presence of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub> as the core and W as the shell, [18] the W shell is also observed to have a thickness of ≈7 nm. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image (Figure 1d) clearly illustrates the interface between Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub> and W, with a lighter lattice spacing of 0.206 nm corresponding to the (111) plane of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, and a darker spacing of 0.244 nm relating to the (110) plane of W. Notably, significant lattice distortion is observed at the interface. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure 1e) show characteristic peaks for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub> at 43.7°, 50.9°, and 74.8°, corresponding to the (111), (200), and (220) planes (JCPDS NO. 65-4828, space group  $Pm \bar{3} m$ ). Similarly, W exhibits peaks at 40.3°, 58.3°, and 73.2°, corresponding to its (110), (200), and (211) planes (JCPDS NO. 04-0806, space group Im 3 m), confirming the presence of only these two phases. Importantly, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W displays stronger diffraction peaks for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, indicating a higher relative content of this component, which is corroborated by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) measurements (Table S1, Supporting Information). To verify the presence of the Ni core in the precursor Ni@NiWO4, thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA) was conducted under N<sub>2</sub> and air conditions,<sup>[19]</sup> as shown in Figure 1f. The weight loss of Ni@NiWO4 under N2 was 2.5% lower than that under air, with the significant difference occurring between 250 and 600 °C, which is due to the oxidation of Ni to NiO in air. [20] This allows us to calculate that Ni constitutes 8.75 wt.% of Ni@NiWO<sub>4</sub>. In contrast, the thermal behavior of Ni-NiWO<sub>4</sub> under both atmospheres was similar (Figure S5, Supporting Information). To further confirm the core-shell structure of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, the synchrotron radiation photoemission spectroscopy (SRPES) spectra of Ni 3p were employed at varying energies, as depicted in Figure 1g. At lower energies (200-600 eV), no distinct Ni peaks were observed; however, a Ni 3p peak appeared at Al K $\alpha$  (1486.6 eV), suggesting that higher photon energies penetrate deeper into the sample. This indicates minimal Ni presence at the surface of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, with greater concentrations found at deeper levels. [21] Conversely, the W 4f peaks gradually diminish with increasing photon energies (Figure S6, Supporting Information), indicating a decreasing W content from the surface to the interior of the material. Meanwhile, when the Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W sample was treated with acid etching, the resulting XRD pattern only showed characteristic peaks of W (Figure S7, Supporting Information), this indicates that the  $\mathrm{Ni}_{17}\mathrm{W}_3$  core is accessible to the H<sub>3</sub>O<sup>+</sup>, which suggests that the outer W shell is porous. To further verify the presence of a porous structure in the W shell, we conducted full pore analysis on both Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, as shown in Figure S8a,c (Supporting Information). According to the BET results,  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3@W}$  exhibits a specific surface area of 17.84 m² g⁻¹, which is 58.3% higher than that of  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3^*W}$  (11.27 m² g⁻¹). This significant increase is likely attributable to the porous nature of the W shell on  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3@W}$ . Furthermore, the pore size distribution (Figure S8b,d, Supporting Information) shows that the pores of  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3@W}$  are mainly distributed in the 2–4 nm range, while those of  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3^*}$ -W are concentrated between 2 and 3 nm. The mesopore volume determined by the BJH method further supports this, with  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3@W}$  showing a value of 0.104 cm³ g⁻¹—nearly twice that of  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3^*}$ -W (0.054 cm³ g⁻¹). These results collectively confirm that the pores in the W shell of  $\mathrm{Ni_{17}W_3@W}$  are primarily mesoporous in nature.

To further investigate the chemical environments of Ni and W in Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, we performed X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) tests. Figure 2a presents the Ni 2p XPS spectrum, where the peaks at 852.6 and 855.9 eV correspond to Ni(0) and Ni(II),[22] respectively, with the latter indicating surface oxidation in pure Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. Both Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W exhibit a shift of the Ni(0) peak to higher energy regions (0.25 and 0.10 eV, respectively), suggesting electron loss from Ni. This indicates the following order of chemical state:  $Ni_{17}W_3@W > Ni_{17}W_3 - W > Ni_{17}W_3$ . The X-ray absorption spectroscopy at Ni K-edge data (Figure 2b) clearly show that both Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W shift positively compared to Ni foil, confirming the outward transfer of electrons from Ni. Notably, the electronic states of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub> are closer to that of Ni foil, with significant differences from NiO, indicating that the Ni in these three catalysts is predominantly in the reduced state. From the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra (Figure 2c), the main peaks for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub> are located at 2.2 Å, corresponding to the Ni-Ni(W) bond, thus confirming the metallic nature of Ni. In contrast, the Ni-O bond and Ni-Ni bond in NiO show a considerable shift from these positions. The wavelet transform results (Figure \$9, Supporting Information) further illustrate this phenomenon, reinforcing the presence of metallic Ni in the three catalysts. The XPS spectrum for W 4f (Figure \$10, Supporting Information) reveals a gradual negative shift in the characteristic peaks for  $Ni_{17}W_3$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3$ -W, and  $Ni_{17}W_3$ @W. The normalized W L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES curves (Figure 2d) indicate that the white line peak of W foil is higher than those of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, with the latter three gradually decreasing. These results collectively suggest a decrease in the oxidation state of W in the three catalysts. Figure 2e shows the W L3-edge EXAFS spectra, where peaks at 2.2 Å for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W are attributed to W-Ni bonding, [23] while the peak at 2.8 Å, closer to W foil, is attributed to W–W bonding. The wavelet transforms for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, and W foil (Figure 2f) indicate that the strongest intensities for W-Ni and W-W bonds are located at 8.5 and 11.6 Å<sup>-1</sup>, respectively.<sup>[24]</sup> For Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and  $Ni_{17}W_3$ -W, the intensity centers are at 8.8 and 11.0 Å<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, suggesting a higher nickel content in the former. According to d-band center theory,[25] the movement of the d-band center of nickel, which loses electrons, shifts away from the Fermi level, leading to reduced adsorption energy for reaction intermediates and facilitating the desorption process. Thus, based on the HBE theory, the electronic structure of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W is expected to exhibit excellent performance in the HOR.

16136289, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20256274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Electronic structure Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. a) XPS spectra of Ni 2p for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. b) Ni Kedge XANES spectra for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>.W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>.W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, Ni foil and NiO. c) The Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>.W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. Ni foil and NiO. d) W L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES spectra for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, and W foil. e) The Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, and W foil. f) Corresponding wavelet transforms of k<sup>3</sup>-weighted EXAFS spectra of W L<sub>3</sub>-edge.

### 2.2. Electrochemical Performance

The HOR catalytic activity of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W was evaluated by comparing with those of the Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, and commercial 20% Pt/C in 0.1 м KOH electrolyte by using a standard threeelectrode system with a rotating disk electrode (RDE). Figure 3a displays the steady-state polarization curves of the catalysts tested using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV). Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W shows a rapid increase in current with rising overpotential, reaching the diffusion-controlled limiting current before Pt/C, indicating its exceptional alkaline HOR catalytic performance. In contrast, although Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W demonstrates comparable acceleration in the micro-polarization region to Pt/C, its limiting current is notably lower, while Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub> exhibits the slowest kinetics and limiting current. At an overpotential of 50 mV, the kinetic cur-

rent density (j<sub>k</sub>) for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W is 17.64 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, representing increases of 2.19, 13.07, and 3.01 times compared to Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, and Pt/C, respectively (Figure 3b). Furthermore, the exchange current density (j<sub>0</sub>) was extracted from linear fittings in the micro-polarization region from -5 to 5 mV (Figure S11, Supporting Information), with Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W achieving 3.10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, placing it among the leading non-precious metal catalysts. Given that nickel-based materials may experience effects from sweep rate and oxidation during testing, we conducted polarization curve tests for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W at varying rotation speeds (Figure 3d). The results show a gradual increase in current as the rotation speed increases from 400 to 2500 rpm. By plotting the inverse of the current density at 25 mV against the inverse of the square root of the rotation speed, we derived a slope of 4.67 cm<sup>2</sup>  $mA^{-1}$  s<sup>-1/2</sup> (Figure 3e), which is close to the theoretical value of

16136289, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20256274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. Electrocatalytic HOR activities. a) Polarization curves of  $Ni_{17}W_3@W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3$ , and commercial 20% Pt/C in  $H_2$ -satureated 0.1 M KOH at 25 °C. The Pt/C loading was 0.02  $mg_{Pt}$  cm<sup>-2</sup>. The rotating speed was 1600 rpm, and the scan rate was 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. b) HOR/HER Tafel plots of the kinetic current density on  $Ni_{17}W_3@W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3-W$ , N

4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> for the two-electron transfer process of HOR,<sup>[26]</sup> confirming that the data is indeed sourced from hydrogen oxidation currents. To further validate this, we also tested the LSV curves of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W in Ar-saturated 0.1 M KOH (Figure S12, Supporting Information), which showed negligible anodic currents. The jk and jo data for four catalysts are presented in Figure 3c. For a quantitative performance analysis, we calculated the mass-normalized kinetic current density  $(j_{k,m})$  and the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) (Figure \$13, Supporting Information) - normalized exchange current density  $(j_{0,s})$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3@W$ achieved values of 70.54 mA  $mg_{Ni}^{-1}$  ( $\eta = 50$  mV) and 0.072  $mA cm_{Ni}^{-2}$ , respectively, both of these demonstrate excellent performance in the HOR catalytic process, and comparison with other similar Ni-base catalysts further confirms its high intrinsic activity (Table S2, Supporting Information). To quantitatively evaluate the intrinsic activity, we conducted turnover frequency (TOF) analysis under standardized conditions ( $\eta = 50 \text{ mV}$ ). The Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W catalyst exhibited a TOF of 0.043 s<sup>-1</sup>, representing a 1.8-fold enhancement compared to the conventional Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W alloy  $(0.024 \text{ s}^{-1})$ . This marked enhancement in specific activity (per active site) unambiguously confirms the superior catalytic efficiency achieved.<sup>[27]</sup> In addition, due to the differences between the testing conditions on an RDE and those in a practical AEMFC, we further evaluated the performance of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W under real operating conditions through AEMFC testing. As shown in Figure 3f, a membrane electrode assembly (MEA) was fabricated using Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W as the anode catalyst with a loading

of 1.5  $\rm mg_{Ni}~cm^{-2}$ , and 40 wt.% Pt/C as the cathode catalyst with a loading of 0.2  $\rm mg_{Pt}~cm^{-2}$ . The single-cell test was conducted at a cell temperature of 95 °C, with the anode and cathode temperatures maintained at 89 and 96 °C, respectively, and a backpressure of 250 kPa applied to both anode and cathode sides. Under  $\rm H_2\text{-}O_2$  conditions, the cell delivered a high peak power density (PPD) of 406 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>. Even under  $\rm H_2\text{-}Air$  conditions, which more closely resemble practical operation, the cell still achieved a relatively high PPD of 312 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>. These results are relatively high performance reported for AEMFCs employing non-PGM anode catalysts (Table S3, Supporting Information), demonstrating the great potential of  $\rm Ni_{17}W_3@W$  for practical AEMFC applications.

For conventional Pt-based HOR catalysts, even trace amounts of CO in hydrogen fuel can severely poison the active sites, resulting in a dramatic loss of catalytic activity. [14a,28] Therefore, robust CO tolerance is essential for advanced alkaline HOR catalysts. As shown in **Figure 4a**, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W exhibits outstanding resistance to CO poisoning. When tested in H<sub>2</sub> containing 1000 ppm CO at an overpotential of 100 mV and a rotation speed of 1600 rpm for 3600 s, the current of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W decreased by only 10.27%. In stark contrast, the current of commercial Pt/C dropped to nearly zero within just 3100 s under identical conditions, indicating complete deactivation. To further elucidate the origin of the enhanced CO tolerance, CO-stripping tests were performed (Figure 4b). Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W exhibits a CO oxidation peak at 0.52 V, which is significantly lower than that of Pt/C (0.74 V). This shift

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20256274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. CO resistance and Performance stability. a) Relative current-time chronoamperometry response of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and commercial 20% Pt/C at 0.1 V in H<sub>2</sub>/1000 ppm CO-saturated 0.1 M KOH, rotation speed: 1600 rpm. b) CO-stripping tests on Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and commercial 20% Pt/C at sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The pale curve is the first cycle of test. c) The accelerating durability test result of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W after 2500 and 5000 CV cycles. d) Chronoamperometry (j - t) responses recorded on Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Pt/C catalysts at a 0.1 V overpotential in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH, rotation speed: 1600 rpm.

suggests that the Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W catalyst possesses stronger OH adsorption capabilities, which facilitates the oxidative removal of adsorbed CO from the active sites, thus enhancing its anti-CO properties during HOR. From a practical standpoint, the long-term stability of the catalyst is critical. To further evaluate the stability of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, accelerated durability test (ADT) were conducted, as shown in Figure 4c. After 2500 and 5000 consecutive CV cycles, the current density at an overpotential of 50 mV decreased by only 0.13 and 0.09 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Moreover, even after 5000 CV cycles, the half-wave potential exhibited a negligible negative shift of only 2 mV compared to the initial state, [14e] demonstrating the catalyst's exceptional electrochemical stability. Subsequently, to further verify the stabilizing role of the coreshell architecture during long-term operation, more rigorous tests were performed under extended conditions. Figure 4d illustrates the chronoamperometric curves for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Pt/C at 0.1 V and 1600 rpm. Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W demonstrated a current decay of only 14.45% over 4 h, approximately half that of Pt/C (29.54%), highlighting its exceptional stability. In comparison, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W showed over a 30% current decline within just 3 h, underscoring the significant role of the core-shell structure of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W in enhancing stability.

#### 2.3. Mechanism Analysis

To explore the relationship between the electronic structure and the catalyst's performance, we measured the valence band (VB) spectra of  $Ni_{17}W_3$ ,  $Ni_{17}W_3$ -W, and  $Ni_{17}W_3$ @W using ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS). The VB spectra reveal that all catalysts exhibit electronic bands crossing the Fermi level (Figure 5a). Using the Fermi level (0 eV) as a reference, the peak positions for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W are 0.24, 0.46, and 0.64 eV, respectively.[24a] For both Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, the maximum of the metal d-band for Ni shifts positively compared to the Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. The work functions of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W were calculated and are shown in Figure 5b. The values are 4.35, 4.28, and 4.17 eV, respectively. The results indicate that Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W has the lowest work function among the three catalysts. A lower work function facilitates the transfer of electrons between the catalyst and the reactants, promoting the catalytic reaction.<sup>[29]</sup> Meanwhile, variations in work function are indicative of electron transfer between different components of the catalyst. Combining this with previous electronic structure measurements, we conclude that electron transfer from Ni to W occurs in both Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W. According to the d-band center and HBE theory, when Ni loses electrons, its d-band center shifts downward, improving the filling of Ni-H<sub>ad</sub> antibonding states. [25] This leads to weaker adsorption energy for  $H_{ad}$ , thereby facilitating the Volmer step in the HOR mechanism and endowing individual active sites of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W with exceptionally high intrinsic catalytic activity.[30]

Additionally, it is widely recognized that, aside from H adsorption, the electrode-solution interface may also influence the HOR.[12b,31] In situ surface enhanced infrared absorption

16136289, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202506274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. Electrocatalyst Surface Properties. a) VB spectra of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. b) UPS spectra of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>. c) Deconvolution of the O-H stretching vibration features of in situ SEIRAS spectra recorded at potentials from -0.05 to 0.1 V for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W. d) The relative fraction of the peak at ~3250 cm<sup>-1</sup> and Stark tuning rate of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W and Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W according to in situ SEIRAS. e) PZC measured for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, and Pt/C.

spectroscopy (SEIRAS) revealed distinct spectral features in the interfacial water O—H stretching region (3000–3800 cm<sup>-1</sup>). Spectral deconvolution resolved three discrete components: peaks at 3250 cm<sup>-1</sup> assigned to strongly hydrogen-bonded H<sub>2</sub>O, peaks at 3460 cm<sup>-1</sup> corresponding to intermediate hydrogen-bonded H<sub>2</sub>O, and peaks at 3600 cm<sup>-1</sup> indicative of free or weakly hydrogen-bonded H<sub>2</sub>O (Figure 5c). Notably, strongly hydrogenbonded H<sub>2</sub>O at 3250 cm<sup>-1</sup> is often associated with the O-down  $(H_2O\downarrow)$  configuration in the interface water. [26c,32] Relevant studies show that during the alkaline HOR process, the rate of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> on the Pt surface is much less than under acidic conditions.[33] Therefore, the orientation of the interface water is also an important factor affecting the performance of the alkaline HOR.[34] HOR-relevant potential at 0.05 V demonstrated Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W possesses substantially higher O-down water content (44.3%) compared to Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W (29.2%, Figures 5d; S14, Supporting Information), directly correlating with its superior HOR activity. Stark tuning rate analysis (Figure 5d) further revealed enhanced interfacial water responsiveness:  $Ni_{17}W_3@W$  exhibits  $\approx 220 \pm 20$  cm<sup>-1</sup> V<sup>-1</sup> tuning rates across all hydration states (color gradient: dark  $\rightarrow$  light = strong  $\rightarrow$  weak hydrogen-bonded H<sub>2</sub>O), twofold greater than  $Ni_{17}W_3$ -W ( $\approx 100 \pm 10 \text{ cm}^{-1} \text{ V}^{-1}$ ). These metrics quantitatively establish stronger WBE in  $Ni_{17}W_3@W$ , consistent with HBE<sub>app</sub> theory predictions where elevated WBE optimizes hydrogen intermediate adsorption/desorption energetics, thereby accelerating HOR kinetics.[32]

To further investigate the influence of interfacial water on the catalytic behavior, we measured the potential of zero charge (PZC), as shown in Figure 5e. Previous studies have demonstrated that when the PZC is closer to the equilibrium potential, the reorganization barrier of interfacial water is reduced and the water mobility is enhanced. [35] This facilitates mass transport at the electrode/electrolyte interface and accelerates the reaction kinetics. As a benchmark, the Pt/C catalyst exhibits a PZC of 0.86 V, which is consistent with reported values. [36] Notably, Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W shows a lower PZC of 0.26 V compared to 0.33 V for Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>-W, indicating that the W shell effectively optimizes the interfacial water structure.

## 3. Conclusion

In conclusion, we successfully synthesized the Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W electrocatalyst with a unique core-shell structure by precisely controlling experimental conditions. This structure enables active sites of Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W to exhibit outstanding intrinsic catalytic performance. The  $j_{k,m}$  and  $j_{0,s}$  of  $Ni_{17}W_3@W$  achieved values of 70.54 mA mg<sub>Ni</sub><sup>-1</sup> ( $\eta$  = 50 mV) and 0.072 mA cm <sub>Ni</sub><sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Moreover, the catalyst exhibited only a 14.45% performance loss after a 14 400 s chronoamperometry test. It is found that the heterostructure effectively tunes the d-band center of surface Ni sites, resulting in high intrinsic catalytic activity for the HOR in alkaline conditions. While the W coating on the outer surface modulates the interfacial water structure and prevents the passivation of Ni sites by oxygen species, hence significantly enhancing the catalyst's long-term stability. Based on the presence of reaction intermediates, we propose that Ni serves as the active site for the HOR in Ni<sub>17</sub>W<sub>3</sub>@W, with an optimized d-band center that ensures maximum catalytic activity per active site.

16136829, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202506274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-7-0"></span>These findings provide a clear framework for the future design of nickel-based catalysts and offer valuable insights for advancing the development of efficient and stable electrocatalysts.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

Y.Z. and Y.Y. contributed equally to this work. This study was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (Grant No. 2021YFA1600202) and the National Natural Science Foundation (22272155, 22102169). This work was partially carried out at the Instruments Center for Physical Science, University of Science and Technology of China (USTC). The authors thank the staff of BL11B beamline station for their help with XAFS measurements at Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF). The authors thank the Catalysis and Surface Science Endstation at the BL11U beamline in the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (NSRL) for help in the characterizations.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

alkaline medium, core-shell structure, hydrogen oxidation reaction, Ni-based electrocatalyst

> Received: May 28, 2025 Revised: August 3, 2025 Published online: August 13, 2025

- [1] K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. Bao, B. Xie, B. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. Fan, H. Wang, Z. Hou, S. Huo, N. P. Brandon, Y. Yin, M. D. Guiver, *Nature* **2021**, *595*, 361.
- [2] B. P. Setzler, Z. Zhuang, J. A. Wittkopf, Y. Yan, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2016**, *11*, 1020.
- [3] a) J. Wang, Y. Zhao, B. P. Setzler, S. Rojas-Carbonell, C. Ben Yehuda, A. Amel, M. Page, L. Wang, K. Hu, L. Shi, S. Gottesfeld, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 392; b) W. Song, K. Peng, W. Xu, X. Liu, H. Zhang, X. Liang, B. Ye, H. Zhang, Z. Yang, L. Wu, X. Ge, T. Xu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2732.
- [4] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [5] a) Y. Yang, Y. Xiong, M. E. Holtz, X. Feng, R. Zeng, G. Chen, F. J. DiSalvo, D. A. Muller, H. c. D. Abruña, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2019**, *116*, 24425; b) Y. Liu, J. Li, Z. Lv, H. Fan, F. Dong, C. Wang, X. Chen, R. Liu, C. Tian, X. Feng, W. Yang, B. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 12636; c) Y. Wang, Y. Yang, S. Jia, X. Wang, K. Lyu, Y. Peng, H. Zheng, X. Wei, H. Ren, L. Xiao, J. Wang, D. A. Muller, H. D. Abruña, B. J. Hwang, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1506.

- [6] J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255.
- [7] a) Y. Zhou, W. Yuan, M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Song, Y. Yang, J. Wang, L. Li, W. Ding, W.-F. Lin, Z. Wei, *Nat. Energy* **2024**, *9*, 1297; b) Y. Yang, W. Zheng, P. Wang, Z. Cheng, P. Wang, J. Yang, C. Wang, J. Chen, Y. Qu, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *18*, 24458.
- [8] W. C. Sheng, M. Myint, J. G. G. Chen, Y. S. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 1509.
- [9] J. Zheng, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501602.
- [10] J. Zheng, J. Nash, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, H27.
- [11] R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K. C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 550.
- [12] a) S. Intikhab, L. Rebollar, Y. Li, R. Pai, V. Kalra, M. H. Tang, J. D. Snyder, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 6798; b) K. Zhao, X. Chang, H. S. Su, Y. Nie, Q. Lu, B. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202207197.
- [13] a) L. Su, D. Gong, N. Yao, Y. Li, Z. Li, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2106156; b) W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y. C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 10797; c) Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141; d) W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Heroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schuler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804; e) H. Sun, C. Li, L. Yang, Y. Han, X. Yu, C. P. Li, Z. Zhang, Z. Yan, F. Cheng, M. Du, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2023**, *120*, 2308035120.
- [14] a) Y. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, S. Qin, L. R. Zheng, Y. H. Wang, J. Liao, Q. Yang, M. R. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202208040; b) Y. H. Wang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, Y. Yang, J. Liao, Z. Z. Niu, S. Qin, P. P. Yang, P. C. Yu, M. Sun, M. R. Gao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17485; c) Y. Duan, Z. Y. Yu, L. Yang, L. R. Zheng, C. T. Zhang, X. T. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, H. H. Ding, C. Gu, X. S. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789; d) S. Qin, Y. Duan, X. L. Zhang, L. R. Zheng, F. Y. Gao, P. P. Yang, Z. Z. Niu, R. Liu, Y. Yang, X. S. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2686; e) X. Wang, X. Liu, J. Fang, H. Wang, X. Liu, H. Wang, C. Chen, Y. Wang, X. Zhang, W. Zhu, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1137.
- [15] a) Y. Yang, X. Sun, G. Han, X. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10644; b) Y. Men, X. Su, P. Li, Y. Tan, C. Ge, S. Jia, L. Li, J. Wang, G. Cheng, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 12661; c) X. Tian, R. Ren, F. Wei, J. Pei, Z. Zhuang, L. Zhuang, W. Sheng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 76.
- [16] Y. Gao, Y. Yang, R. Schimmenti, E. Murray, H. Peng, Y. Wang, C. Ge, W. Jiang, G. Wang, F. J. DiSalvo, D. A. Muller, M. Mavrikakis, L. Xiao, H. D. Abruna, L. Zhuang, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2022**, *119*, 2119883119.
- [17] a) F. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Zhao, H. Li, *Chem. Lett.* **2004**, *33*, 146; b) R. S. Ningthoujam, N. S. Gajbhiye, S. Sharma, *Pramana* **2009**, *72*, 577.
- [18] T. Zhao, M. Li, D. Xiao, X. Yang, L. An, Z. Deng, T. Shen, M. Gong, Y. Chen, H. Liu, L. Feng, X. Yang, L. Li, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *136*, 202315148.
- [19] Q. He, Y. Zhou, H. Shou, X. Wang, P. Zhang, W. Xu, S. Qiao, C. Wu, H. Liu, D. Liu, S. Chen, R. Long, Z. Qi, X. Wu, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110604.
- [20] N. N. Greenwood, A. Earnshaw, *Chemistry of the Elements*, Elsevier Science & Technology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands **1984**.
- [21] J. J. Ge, D. S. He, W. X. Chen, H. X. Ju, H. Zhang, T. T. Chao, X. Q. Wang, R. You, Y. Lin, Y. Wang, J. F. Zhu, H. Li, B. Xiao, W. X. Huang, Y. Wu, X. Hong, Y. D. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 13850.
- [22] S. Li, B. Chen, Y. Wang, M. Y. Ye, P. A. van Aken, C. Cheng, A. Thomas, *Nat. Mater.* **2021**, *20*, 1240.
- [23] Z. Cheng, Y. Yang, P. Wang, P. Wang, J. Yang, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *Small* **2024**, *20*, [https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202307780.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202307780)

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

[30] C. Sun, P. C. Zhao, Y. Q. Yang, Z. Li, W. C. Sheng, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 11830.

- [24] a) R. Cury, J. M. Joubert, S. Tusseau-Nenez, E. Leroy, A. Allavena-Valette, *Intermetallics* **2009**, *17*, 174; b) I. Jonane, A. Anspoks, A. Kuzmin, *Modell. Simul. Mater. Sci. Eng.* **2018**, *26*, 025004.
- [25] S. Schnur, A. Groß, *Phys. Rev. B* **2010**, *81*, 033402.
- [26] a) Z. Cheng, Y. Yang, F. Zheng, S. Chen, P. Wang, P. Wang, H. Huang, C. Wang, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 3845; b) H. Shi, Y. Yang, P. Meng, J. Yang, W. Zheng, P. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, Z. Cheng, C. Zong, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 16619; c) P. Meng, W. Zheng, H. Shi, J. Yang, P. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, C. Zong, P. Wang, Z. Cheng, Y. Yang, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *Small* **2024**, [10.1002/smll.202401404e2401404.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202401404e2401404)
- [27] L. Han, P. Ou, W. Liu, X. Wang, H. T. Wang, R. Zhang, C. W. Pao, X. Liu, W. F. Pong, J. Song, Z. Zhuang, M. V. Mirkin, J. Luo, H. L. Xin, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, abm3779.
- [28] C. Molochas, P. Tsiakaras, *Catalysts* **2021**, *11*, 1127.
- [29] F. Y. Gao, S. N. Liu, J. C. Ge, X. L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y. R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. X. Dong, X. X. Yu, R. C. Bao, P. P. Yang, Z. Z. Niu, Z. G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M. R. Gao, Y. S. Yan, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 993.

- [31] Q. Sun, N. J. Oliveira, S. Kwon, S. Tyukhtenko, J. J. Guo, N. Myrthil, S. A. Lopez, I. Kendrick, S. Mukerjee, L. Ma, S. N. Ehrlich, J. Li, W. A. Goddard, Y. Yan, Q. Jia, *Nat. Energy* **2023**, *8*, 859.
- [32] W. Ni, J. L. Meibom, N. U. Hassan, M. Chang, Y.-C. Chu, A. Krammer, S. Sun, Y. Zheng, L. Bai, W. Ma, S. Lee, S. Jin, J. S. Luterbacher, A. Schüler, H. M. Chen, W. E. Mustain, X. Hu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 773.
- [33] M. Li, L. Li, X. Huang, X. Qi, M. Deng, S. Jiang, Z. Wei, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *13*, 10550.
- [34] C. Wan, Z. Zhang, S. Wang, Q. Sun, E. Liu, H. Pu, A. Zhang, Z. Chen, A. H. Shah, X. Fu, A. N. Alexandrova, Q. Jia, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2025**, *147*, 12162.
- [35] L. Rebollar, S. Intikhab, S. Zhang, H. Deng, Z. Zeng, J. D. Snyder, M. H. Tang, *J. Catal.* **2021**, *398*, 161.
- [36] H. W. Ren, W. Q. Yu, M. Y. Lv, J. Gao, H. Hu, M. D. Wang, X. J. Cui, J. Liu, L. H. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *35*, 2413754.