---
source: Zhang 等 - 2023 - Fast and Durable Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction at the Electron‐Deficient Ruthenium–Ruthenium.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 65.171s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:45:12.373009Z
---

# **Fast and Durable Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction at the Electron-Deficient Ruthenium–Ruthenium Oxide Interface**

*Xiaoyu (Baohua) Zhang, Lixue Xia, Guoqiang Zhao, Bingxing Zhang, Yaping Chen, Jian Chen, Mingxia Gao, Yinzhu Jiang, Yongfeng Liu, Hongge Pan,\* and Wenping Sun\**

**The slow hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) kinetics under alkaline conditions remain a critical challenge for the practical application of alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells. Herein, Ru/RuO2 in-plane heterostructures are designed with abundant active Ru–RuO2 interface domains as efficient electrocatalysts for the HOR in alkaline media. The experimental and theoretical results demonstrate that interfacial Ru and RuO2 domains at Ru–RuO2 interfaces are the optimal H and OH adsorption sites, respectively, endowing the well-defined Ru(100)/RuO2(200) interface as the preferential region for fast alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis. More importantly, the metallic Ru domains become electron deficient due to the strong interaction with RuO2 domains and show substantially improved inoxidizability, which is vital to maintain durable HOR electrocatalytic activity. The optimal Ru/RuO2 heterostructured electrocatalyst exhibits impressive alkaline HOR activity with an exchange current density of 8.86 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and decent durability. The exceptional electrocatalytic performance of Ru/RuO2 in-plane heterostructure can be attributed to the robust and multifunctional Ru–RuO2 interfaces endowed by the unique metal–metal oxide domains.**

X. (B.) Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Zhejiang University

Hangzhou 310058, P. R. China

E-mail: honggepan@zju.edu.cn; wenpingsun@zju.edu.cn

X. (B.) Zhang

Zhejiang Carbon Neutral Innovation Institute and College of Materials Science and Engineering

Zhejiang University of Technology

Hangzhou 310014, P. R. China

L. Xia

State Key Laboratory of Silicate Materials for Architectures International School of Materials Science and Engineering

Wuhan University of Technology

Wuhan 430070, P. R. China

J. Chen, H. Pan

Institute of Science and Technology for New Energy

Xi'an Technological University

Xi'an 710021, P. R. China

W. Sun

State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization

Zhejiang University

Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202208821.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202208821**

# **1. Introduction**

Alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) have been considered as the potential cost-effective fuel cells owing to their unique advantages, such as the development of anion exchange membrane, the broad selectivity of cell components, and non-noble electrocatalysts with platinum (Pt)-like activity for the oxygen reduction reaction at the cathode under alkaline conditions.[1–4] The kinetics of the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) at the anode, however, is significantly sluggish in alkaline media, which is two orders of magnitude lower than that in acid media.[5–7] Although Pt-based electrocatalysts generally exhibit impressive activity for alkaline HOR, the high cost of Pt is still a nonnegligible challenge for the commercialization of fuel cells. Therefore, searching for cost-effective and robust Pt-free alkaline HOR electrocatalysts is crucial for the

practical application of AEMFCs.

Ruthenium (Ru), which is much cheaper than Pt, possesses reasonable oxyphilic ability and hydrogen binding energy (HBE) toward the optimal adsorption of OHad and Had at low anode potentials, which is important for achieving fast HOR kinetics under alkaline conditions.[8] Therefore, to a certain degree, Rubased electrocatalyst can be regarded as an ideal potential alternative to Pt toward HOR in alkaline media.[9–11] Unfortunately, metallic Ru could not maintain sufficient oxide-free surface for bonding with Had with increasing the anodic potential, since it is susceptible to be oxidized at elevated anodic potentials (>0.1 V vs RHE).[10,12] As a result, the catalytic performance of Ru-based electrocatalysts generally decays rapidly at relatively high anode potentials.[13,14] The cell polarity reversal caused by H2 starvation usually occurs unavoidably and consequently increases the anode potential during the start-up or shut-down processes of the fuel cells.[15–17] Therefore, the activity and durability of Ru-based HOR electrocatalysts at elevated potentials should be paid enough attention. In this regard, researchers have put forward a large number of strategies to develop Rubased HOR electrocatalysts with remarkable activity and durability. The modulation of Ru electronic structure is effective for addressing the durability concern and delivering promising activity. Wei et al. reported Ru clusters surrounded by a uniform

www.advmat.de

TiO<sub>2</sub> coating layer on a carbon support (IO-Ru-TiO<sub>2</sub>/C) and Ru clusters partially confined in the lattice of TiO2 crystals (Ru@ TiO<sub>2</sub>) as HOR electrocatalysts with remarkable activity and durability under alkaline conditions.[10,18] The electron transfer at the heterostructured interfaces is critical to adjust the electron occupation of Ru 4d orbitals, which plays a vital role in balancing the adsorption strength of reaction intermediates. Luo's group also designed efficient Ru-based electrocatalysts for alkaline HOR by utilizing heteroatom doping to regulate the electronic structure of Ru.[19-21] Heteroatoms that possess strong electronegativity could accept electrons from Ru atoms and hence adjust the electronic structure of Ru, enabling optimized HBE and lowered reaction energy barrier for HOR. In addition, alloying Ru with other metals (e.g., Pt) was also demonstrated as an efficient strategy to increase the HOR performance via balancing the adsorption behaviors of H<sub>2d</sub> and OH<sub>2d</sub> on different metal active sites. For instance, the representative PtRu electrocatalysts deliver much higher HOR activity compared with Pt/C.[22,23] However, some disadvantages of PtRu electrocatalysts, such as the high cost of Pt and less tolerance to cell reversal, still need to be considered. Metal-metal oxide heterointerfaces in the electrocatalysts could usually contribute to the enhanced catalytic performance due to the balanced adsorption of reaction intermediates and the associated synergistic effect.[24-26] Therefore, constructing Ru-RuO<sub>x</sub> in-plane heterostructured electrocatalysts with abundant heterointerfaces would be an inspiring strategy to design advanced Rubased electrocatalysts for alkaline HOR toward practical device applications.

Herein, we design and synthesize  $Ru/RuO_2$  in-plane heterostructures composed of Ru and  $RuO_2$  domains with distinctive confined  $Ru(100)/RuO_2(200)$  interface toward fast and durable alkaline HOR electrocatalysis. The experimental results and theoretical calculations demonstrate that endowed by the strong in-plane metal–metal oxide interaction, the unique  $Ru-RuO_2$  domains can effectively inhibit metallic Ru from being oxidized at relatively high anode potentials ( $\approx 0.1–0.3~V~vs~RHE$ ). Meanwhile, the robust and multifunctional  $Ru-RuO_2$  heterointerface is capable of maintaining an optimal balance between  $H_{ad}$  and  $OH_{ad}$  adsorption over the whole reaction process, which eventually boosts the alkaline HOR kinetics and durability drastically.

### 2. Results and Discussion

Figure 1a illustrates the process for synthesizing  $Ru/RuO_2$  in-plane heterostructures with abundant  $Ru-RuO_2$  interface domains. First, the  $RuO_{2-x}$  nanosheets (NSs) were synthesized through annealing the mixture of  $Ru(acac)_3$  and KBr in the air. Then, the  $Ru/RuO_2$  NSs with different ratios of  $Ru^0/(Ru^{4+} + Ru^0)$  were obtained after solvothermal reduction treatment of  $RuO_{2-x}$  with ethylene glycol as the reducing agent at different temperatures. As can be seen from the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure 1b), most diffraction peaks of  $RuO_{2-x}$  NSs can be assigned to  $RuO_2$  (PDF-#88-0322), and only one weak diffraction peak at 44.0° corresponds to the (101) planes of metallic  $Ru.^{[27]}$  After solvothermal reduction treatment, crystal structure evolution between  $RuO_2$  and Ru occurs. Additional typical diffraction peaks that can be ascribed to the (103) and

(201) planes of metal Ru emerge, and the corresponding intensities are enhanced with the increment of the solvothermal reduction temperature. [13] RuO<sub>2-x</sub> is fully converted to Ru after solvothermal reduction at 250°C. The lattice spacings of 0.32 and 0.24 nm in the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of RuO<sub>2-x</sub> can be ascribed to the (110) and (100) planes of RuO<sub>2</sub> and Ru, respectively (Figure S1, Supporting Information), which are in agreement with the XRD results.<sup>[28]</sup> The lateral size and thickness of RuO<sub>2-x</sub> NSs are up to a few micrometers and ≈4.8 nm, respectively (Figure S1d, Supporting Information). After solvothermal reduction treatment, the nanosheet structure evolves to be composed of nanocluster domains (Figure 1c; Figure S2, Supporting Information), and the thickness of Ru/RuO2-180 is slightly reduced to ≈4.0 nm (Figure 1d). As can be seen from the HRTEM images of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 (Figure 1e), the lattice fringes with 0.24 and 0.22 nm interplanar spacing can be assigned to Ru(100) and RuO<sub>2</sub>(200), respectively. The fast Fourier transform (FFT) diffraction pattern of the selected area shows two sets of symmetries (inset, Figure 1e), confirming the coexistence of Ru and RuO<sub>2</sub> in Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180. The corresponding inverse FFT (IFFT) images obtained by choosing each of the two FFT patterns in Figure 1e are shown in Figure 1f,g. The lattice fringes (d = 0.24 nm) with an angle of  $60^{\circ}$  represents the (100) planes of metal Ru (Figure 1f). [29,30] In Figure 1g, the tetragonal symmetry can be ascribed to RuO2, and the lattice spacing of 0.22 nm with an angle of 90° corresponds to the (200) planes of RuO<sub>2</sub>.<sup>[31]</sup> More interestingly, a new structure is observed at the Ru-RuO2 interface, which fuses the Ru and RuO2 together (Figure 1e). The new structure can be identified by the lattice fringes in the HRTEM and high-resolution IFFT images. The lattice fringes at the interface region are different from those of the RuO<sub>2</sub>(200) and Ru(100), but they seem to have similar patterns with that of RuO<sub>2</sub> or Ru in each transition zone. The IFFT images show that Ru and RuO<sub>2</sub> lattice fringes emerge together at the interface (Figure 1e-g). Taken together with the contrast difference, it can be concluded that the Ru-RuO2 domains possess a unique interface-confined structure with distinctive Ru(100)/RuO<sub>2</sub>(200) intercalation. In addition, high-angle annular dark-field scanning (HAADF-STEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping images of RuO<sub>2-x</sub> and Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 are shown in Figures S1 and S2 (Supporting Information), confirming the in-plane heterostructures and the uniform distribution of Ru and O elements. Furthermore, HAADF-STEM and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) characterization were further performed to examine the Ru/RuO2-180 structure at atomic resolution (Figure 1h-j). Figure 1i,j present the EELS spectra of Ru-M2.3 and O-K edges along the line scan for the three regions from Ru to RuO2. According to the absence or presence of O-K edge, O-K edge intensity change, and the peak shift of Ru-M<sub>2,3</sub> edge in the three regions, we can conclude that there simultaneously exist Ru and RuO2 at the Ru-RuO2 interface region.[32,33] In addition, the similar profiles of Ru-RuO<sub>2</sub> interface are also observed from the TEM and HRTEM images of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-150 (Figure S3, Supporting Information) and Ru/ RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 (Figure S4, Supporting Information), which also show clear lattice spacings of 0.24 and 0.22 nm for Ru(100) and RuO<sub>2</sub>(200), respectively. The morphologies of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-150 are still maintained as NSs, whereas obvious aggregation occurs in Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250.

15214095, 2023, 9, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202208821 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Ru/RuO2. b) XRD patterns of different samples. c–j) Structure characterizations of Ru/RuO2- 180. c) TEM image. d) AFM image and the height profile. e) HRTEM image and the corresponding FFT patterns. f, g) IFFT image corresponding to (e), generated by selecting the FFT patterns of Ru (f) and RuO2 (g). h) HAADF-STEM image, and i,j) EELS spectra obtained from the line scan in (h).

The valence states of Ru for the samples are probed via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Due to the signal overlapping of Ru 3d and C 1s at the binding energy of ≈285 eV,[13,34,35] it is more reliable to collect Ru 3p spectra for detailed analysis (**Figure 2**a,b; Figures S5–S7, Supporting Information). RuO2−*x*, Ru/RuO2-150, Ru/RuO2-180, and Ru/RuO2-250 exhibit very similar Ru 3p spectra profiles. The peaks centered at ≈483.5 and ≈461.3 eV can be indexed to the Ru 3p1/2 and Ru 3p3/2 for metallic Ru, respectively.[34] The peaks with binding energies of ≈486.1 and ≈464.2 eV can be assigned to Ru 3p1/2 and Ru www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

15214995, 2023, 9, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibitary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/adna.20220882b y University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (07/01/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons.

**Figure 2.** X-ray spectroscopy characterizations of the samples. a,b) Ru 3p XPS spectra of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 (a) and Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 (b). c) The ratio of Ru<sup>0</sup>/ (Ru<sup>4+</sup>+Ru<sup>0</sup>) based on the quantitative XPS analysis. d) Ru K-edge XANES spectra. e) Fitted linear relationship between the energy position of Ru K-edge and Ru valence state. f) FT  $k^3$ -weighted  $\chi(k)$ -function of the EXAFS spectra for the Ru K-edge. g–i) WT for the  $k^3$ -weighted EXAFS of the Ru K-edge for RuO<sub>2-x</sub> (g), Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 (h), and Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 (i).

 $3p_{3/2}$  for  $Ru^{4+}$ , respectively. [36] Moreover, based on the quantitative XPS analysis (Figure 2c), the ratios of  $Ru^0/(Ru^{4+}+Ru^0)$  for  $RuO_{2-x}$ ,  $Ru/RuO_2$ -150,  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180, and  $Ru/RuO_2$ -250 are calculated to be 16.6, 38.8, 52.6, and 82.5, respectively. Besides, the Ru 3p spectra of all the samples display negative corelevel shifts with increasing the reduction temperature. These variations further testify the content of metallic Ru increases in the sequence of  $Ru/RuO_2$ -250 >  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180 >  $Ru/RuO_2$ -150 >  $Ru/RuO_2$ -. On the basis of the ratios of  $Ru^0/(Ru^{4+} + Ru^0)$ , we can conclude that the  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180 heterostructure has the highest density of  $Ru(100)/RuO_2(200)$  interfaces since Ru and  $RuO_2$  almost contribute equal proportion in  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180.

The Ru K-edge X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) characterization was performed to gain deeper understanding of the electronic and coordination structure of Ru species. Ru K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra (Figure 2d, Ru foil, and RuO<sub>2</sub> as the reference materials) show that the absorption edge of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 is very close to the

reference Ru foil, while the absorption edge of Ru/RuO2-180 locates between Ru foil and RuO2. The energy of the absorption edge decreases in the order of  $RuO_2 > RuO_{2-r} > Ru/RuO_2$  $150 > Ru/RuO_2-180 > Ru/RuO_2-250 > Ru$  foil, which further verifies that the average oxidation state of Ru decreases and metallic Ru increases accordingly with increasing the reduction temperature.[37] Based on the scaling relation between absorption energy and Ru valence state, the average valence of the Ru species is determined to be 3.1, 2.1, 1.9, and 0.7 for RuO<sub>2-x</sub>, Ru/ RuO2-150, Ru/RuO2-180 and Ru/RuO2-250, respectively, which is consistent with the XPS results (Figure 2e).<sup>[38,39]</sup> Ru K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) was collected to investigate the local coordination environment (Figure 2f; Figure S8, Supporting Information), and the fitting results are listed in Table S1 (Supporting Information). A well-defined peak at ≈1.5 Å corresponding to Ru-O bond can be found in the EXAFS spectra of all the samples.[40] The prominent peak at ≈2.4 Å can be assigned to the Ru–Ru coordination in metallic

15214095, 2023, 9, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202208821 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Ru domains for the Ru/RuO2-150, Ru/RuO2-180, and Ru/ RuO2-250 heterostructures.[10] The coordination number of the metallic Ru–Ru increases from 1.2 (RuO2−*<sup>x</sup>*) to 1.9 (Ru/RuO2- 150), 3.0 (Ru/RuO2-180), and 5.2 (Ru/RuO2-250) with increasing the reduction temperature, which is a direct evidence for the enhanced proportion of metallic Ru species after the solvothermal reduction treatment. To better illustrate the distinct coordination environment of Ru in Ru/RuO2 heterostructures, the Wavelet transforms (WT) for the *k*<sup>3</sup> -weighted EXAFS signals of the Ru K-edge spectra were performed (Figure 2g–i; Figure S9, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 2g, the coordination feature of Ru in RuO2−*<sup>x</sup>* is similar to that in RuO2. The WT of Ru/RuO2-180 (Figure 2h) and Ru/RuO2-150 (Figure S9a, Supporting Information) show combined features of Ru foil and RuO2, confirming the coexistence of metallic Ru and RuO2. When the reduction temperature is increased to 250 °C, the obtained WT of Ru/RuO2-250 resembles that of Ru foil, demonstrating the predominant metallic Ru–Ru coordination (Figure 2i; Figure S9c, Supporting Information).

The HOR electrocatalytic performances of as-prepared RuO2−*<sup>x</sup>* and Ru/RuO2−*<sup>x</sup>* electrocatalysts were examined by rotating disk electrode (RDE) in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte with a standard three-electrode system (see details in experimental section). The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves collected at a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm are presented in **Figure 3**a. Ru/RuO2-180 exhibits the highest current density in the whole potential range, demonstrating it has the highest electrocatalytic performance, while RuO2−*<sup>x</sup>* shows the lowest HOR activity. It is worth noting that a sharp decline of current density can be observed at ≈0.1 V (vs RHE) for Ru/RuO2-250. This kind of performance decline is induced by the oxidation of metallic Ru species in Ru/RuO2- 250, and would consequently lead to the vanishment of active metallic Ru sites for bonding with hydrogen, which is a typical

**Figure 3.** Electrochemical measurement results. a) Geometric area-normalized LSV curves of different catalysts. b) LSV curves of Ru/RuO2-180 at various rotation rates, and the inset shows the Koutecký–Levich plot at an overpotential of 50 mV. c) Linear fitting based on the Butler–Volmer equation of the kinetic current density at 1600 rpm. (Symbols are calculated *j*k based on experimental data and dash lines are fitting results). d) Comparison of *j*0 and mass-normalized current density at an overpotential of 50 mV of different catalysts. e) Relative chronoamperometry response of Ru/RuO2-180 and Ru/RuO2-250 in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution at 0.1 V (vs RHE). f) Relative chronoamperometry response of Ru/RuO2-180, Ru/RuO2-250, and 20 wt% Pt/C in H2/10 000ppm CO-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution at 0.1 V (vs RHE). g) HER polarization curves in N2-saturated 1.0 m KOH. h) CV curve of the samples in Ar-saturated 0.1 m KOH, showing the desorption of the Hupd. i) CO stripping voltammetry of RuO2<sup>−</sup>*x*, Ru/RuO2-150, Ru/RuO2- 180, and Ru/RuO2-250.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

phenomenon for Ru-based HOR electrocatalysts.[10,23] In contrast, the sharp current decline phenomenon does not occur for the case of Ru/RuO2-180 in the potential ranging from 0 to 0.33 V (vs RHE), suggesting that the oxidation of metallic Ru species is inhibited in  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180. The well-defined  $Ru-RuO_2$ interface domains in the heterostructured electrocatalyst possibly play a vital role in improving the inoxidizability of metallic Ru species and hence enhancing catalytic activity. [29] The polarization curves collected at different rotation speeds for all the catalysts are shown in Figure 3b and Figure S10 (Supporting Information). When increasing the rotation speed, the current density accordingly increases due to the improved mass transportation. [41] A linear relationship between  $\omega^{-1/2}$  and the inverse of current density at an overpotential of 50 mV is observed in the Koutecký-Levich plots. The slopes are calculated to be 4.80, 3.68, 4.79, 4.86, and 4.52 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> for Pt/C, RuO<sub>2-x</sub>, Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-150, Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180, and Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250, respectively, indicating that the two-electron reaction occurs based on the theoretical value of 4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>.<sup>[41]</sup> Figure 3c shows the kinetic current densities  $(i_k)$  as a function of the potential calculated according to the Koutecký-Levich equation, revealing the significantly improved HOR kinetics of Ru/RuO2-180. The exchange current densities (j<sub>0</sub>) were calculated via the Butler-Volmer equation. As shown in Figure 3d, the Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 catalyst possesses a geometric  $i_0$  of 8.86 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than those of Pt/C (2.48 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), RuO<sub>2-x</sub> (4.76 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ru/  $RuO_2$ -150 (2.69 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and  $Ru/RuO_2$ -250 (6.35 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>).  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180 with such a high  $j_0$  is by far one of the best alkaline HOR electrocatalysts (Table S2, Supporting Information). Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 exhibits the highest mass-normalized current density as well (Figure 3d; Figure S11, Supporting Information). All the above results reveal that Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 shows the highest HOR catalytic activity among the as-prepared electrocatalysts.

The insufficient durability is an innegligible concern for Rubased HOR electrocatalysts toward fuel cell applications. [42,43] The durability was evaluated by chronoamperometry test at 0.1 V (vs RHE) (Figure 3e). After a continuous 4.2 h operation, Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 loses 48.0% of its original current density. In contrast, Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 shows substantially enhanced durability, with current density declining by 8.5% and 10% after 4.2 and 8 h operation, respectively, which is also better than that of commercial Pt/C.[44] The chemical states of Ru/RuO2-180 and Ru/RuO2-250 after stability test were further investigated by XPS (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Based on the quantitative XPS analysis, the ratio of Ru<sup>0</sup>/(Ru<sup>4+</sup> + Ru<sup>0</sup>) for Ru/ RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 is 51.3%, which is almost unchanged compared with the initial value (52.6%) before stability test. While the ratio of Ru<sup>0</sup>/(Ru<sup>4+</sup> + Ru<sup>0</sup>) for Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 decreases obviously from 82.5% to 41.8%, suggesting that metallic Ru species in Ru/ RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 undergo serious electrochemical oxidation during the stability test. Furthermore, the nanosheet morphology for Ru/ RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 catalyst is well maintained (Figure S13, Supporting Information). It is worth noting that abundant active Ru-RuO<sub>2</sub> heterointerfaces are well preserved in Ru/RuO2-180, which is critical for maintaining high-performance durability. Therefore, the XPS and TEM result further prove the high stability of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 electrocatalyst from the perspectives of chemical composition and morphology, respectively. Presumably, the abundant Ru-RuO2 confined interfaces in Ru/RuO2-180 in-

plane heterostructure play a vital role in preventing Ru from being oxidized, which will be discussed later. Figure 3f displays the resistance to CO poisoning of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180, Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250, and Pt/C, which was tested by chronoamperometry at 0.1 V (vs RHE) in  $H_2/10~000$  ppm CO-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. The current density of Ru/RuO2-180 decreases 23.5% after continuous operation for 300 s. However, Ru/RuO2-250 and commercial Pt/C catalysts are completely inactivated after 221 and 91 s operation, respectively, under the same condition. The stability test of Ru/RuO2-180 was also carried out with carbon paper as the conductive support, as shown in Figure S14 (Supporting Information). The carbon paper-supported catalyst exhibits 20% decay in current density after 80 h continuous operations at 0.1 V (vs RHE), further verifying the promising stability. The geometric area-normalized (Figure 3g) and massnormalized (Figure S15, Supporting Information) HER polarization curves of the samples in 1.0 m KOH solution reveal that Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 possesses the highest catalytic activity for alkaline HER. Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 only requires an overpotential of 38 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is superior to the activity of Pt/C (68 mV), RuO<sub>2-x</sub> (61 mV), Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-150 (45 mV), and Ru/RuO2-250 (65 mV). It is worth noting that the HER activity of the Ru/RuO2 in-plane heterostructures presented in this work is much superior to the most reported alkaline HER electrocatalysts.<sup>[5,35]</sup> Similar to the case of alkaline HOR, the outstanding alkaline HER activity may also derive from the distinctive Ru-RuO2 interface domains, which possess strong capability to dissociate water and appropriate bonding energies of H<sub>ad</sub> and OH<sub>ad</sub>.<sup>[29,45]</sup>

The binding energy of H<sub>ad</sub> and OH<sub>ad</sub> species on the electrocatalyst surface is intimately correlated to the catalytic activity toward hydrogen electrocatalysis in alkaline media. [46] The H<sub>ad</sub> bonding strength was evaluated by the desorption of the underpotential deposited hydrogen (H<sub>und</sub>). Cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of the electrocatalysts collected in Ar-saturated 1.0 м KOH solution are shown in Figure 3h. Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 exhibits a more negative potential for hydrogen desorption (0.13 V vs RHE) than that of Pt/C (0.3 V vs RHE), RuO<sub>2-x</sub> (0.18 V vs RHE), Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-150 (0.16 V vs RHE), and Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 (0.22 V vs RHE). The result demonstrates that the properly decreased d-electron density weakens the Ru-H bonding energy, which would promote the rate-determining step (RDS) for fast alkaline HOR kinetics. [23,47] CO stripping is employed to monitor the adsorption behavior of OH<sub>2d</sub>, since the CO oxidation process has to proceed with the presence of OH species. As shown in Figure 3i, the CO oxidation peak of Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 is ca. 0.65 V (vs RHE), which is more negative than that of RuO<sub>2-x</sub> (0.77 V vs RHE), Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-150 (0.82 V vs RHE), and Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-250 (0.83 V vs RHE). Therefore, Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>-180 electrocatalyst has the strongest affinity with OH<sub>ad</sub>, which is one solid evidence to explain the enhanced activity for HOR and HER in alkaline media.

To further elucidate the origin of the exceptional electrocatalytic performance of the  $Ru/RuO_2$  in-plane heterostructured electrocatalysts, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were carried out. Three model systems of Ru(100),  $RuO_2(200)$ , and  $Ru/RuO_2$  heterostructure that Ru(100) slab in contact with  $RuO_2(200)$  are modeled reasonably. As can be seen from the Bader charge analysis of  $Ru/RuO_2$  in **Figure 4**a,

15214095, 2023, 9, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202208821 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** Theoretical calculation investigations. a) Bader charge analysis and b) electron-density distribution of Ru/RuO2 (the isosurface value is set to 0.05 e Å−<sup>3</sup> and the yellow and cyan regions refer to the increased and decreased electron distribution, respectively). c) Free energy for H adsorption, and d) adsorption energy of OH\* on different materials. (Note: 1H and 2H represent interfacial Ru and non-interfacial Ru sites for the adsorption of hydrogen, respectively. Similarly for 1OH/2OH and 1O/2O.) e,f) PDOS plots of Ru 4d states in Ru/RuO2(Ru) and pure Ru (e) and Ru/RuO2(RuO2) and pure RuO2 (f). g,h) Adsorption energy of OH\* (g) and O\* (h) on different Ru sites. i) Schematic illustration of the alkaline HOR mechanism on Ru/RuO2 in-plane heterostructure.

Ru atoms particularly the interfacial ones in the metallic Ru domains of Ru/RuO2 heterostructure carry more positive charges than the ones in pure Ru (Figure S16, Supporting Information), indicating obvious electron depletion occurs on the metallic Ru atoms. The electron depletion behavior is closely associated with the intense interaction at the heterointerface accompanied with electron transfer from Ru to RuO2 domains. The electron density depletion around interfacial metallic Ru atoms and accumulation around O atoms in RuO2 can be found in Figure 4b, further verifying that electrons transfer through the Ru/RuO2 heterointerface. To shed light on the mechanism for the performance enhancement, we calculated the adsorption energies of Had and OHad on different Ru and RuO2 sites in Ru/RuO2, Ru, and RuO2 models (Figure 4c,d; Figures S17–S20, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 4c, Figures S17 and S19 (Supporting Information), the Ru sites at Ru–RuO2 interface exhibit the most reasonable hydrogen adsorption energy. Compared with the Δ*G*H of Ru (−0.14 eV), RuO2 (0.22 eV), and Ru(2H)/RuO2 (0.12 eV), Ru(1H)/RuO2 exhibits a superior Δ*G*H\* of 0.06 eV, which is closer to the ideal value for hydrogen electrocatalysis.[14] As shown in Figure 4d, Figures S18, and S20 (Supporting Information), Ru/RuO2(1OH)

www.advmat.de

exhibits the strongest hydroxyl adsorption ( $\Delta G_{OH^*} = -0.61 \text{ eV}$ ) among different models, which is consistent with the experimental results. The results demonstrate that the interfacial Ru and RuO<sub>2</sub> domains at Ru-RuO<sub>2</sub> interface in Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub> act as the optimal adsorption sites for H and OH, respectively. We further investigated the computed projected density of states (PDOS) diagram. The d-band centers of interfacial Ru (Ru/RuO2(Ru)) and pure Ru are -3.01 and -2.78 eV with respect to the Fermi level, respectively (Figure 4e), while the d-band center of interfacial RuO<sub>2</sub> (Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub>(RuO<sub>2</sub>)) (-2.26 eV) upshifts as compared to that of bare RuO<sub>2</sub> (-2.47 eV) (Figure 4f). The variation of d-band centers of Ru and RuO2 in Ru/RuO2 is consistent with the electron transfer behavior between metallic Ru and RuO2 in the heterostructure. The d-band position is used as an important descriptor for the binding energy between metal and adsorbate, and, generally, lower/higher d-band center corresponds to lower/higher binding energy.<sup>[48]</sup> Thus, compared with pure Ru, the metallic Ru domains at heterointerfaces possess weaker interaction with H<sub>ad</sub>, and the interfacial RuO<sub>2</sub> domains in Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub> show stronger interaction with OH<sub>ad</sub> than pure RuO2. The conclusion is consistent with the experimental results. More importantly, the interfacial Ru in the heterostructure should also have weaker interaction with hydroxyl (OH) and oxygen (O) than pure Ru. As a result, the interfacial metallic Ru domains in Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub> would exhibit superior inoxidizability to pure Ru, because a higher energy barrier should be overcome for electrons transiting from Ru 4d orbit of metallic electron-deficiency Ru domains to O 2p orbit of adsorbed OH or O. To certify this point, we calculated the adsorption energies of OH and O on interfacial metallic Ru, non-interfacial metallic Ru and pure Ru (Figure 4g,h; Figures S20 and S21, Supporting Information). The interfacial metallic Ru sites possess the lowest adsorption energies for OH and O, confirming that the unique Ru-RuO<sub>2</sub> interface is capable of improving the inoxidizability of metallic Ru species. Therefore, the robust and multifunctional Ru-RuO2 interfaces can be effectively retained in the Ru/RuO2 in-plane heterostructures under HOR conditions, which is critical for delivering long-term durability. As schematically illustrated in Figure 4i, Ru and RuO2 domains at Ru-RuO2 interface work as the optimal Had and OHad adsorption sites, respectively, which eventually makes Ru-RuO2 interface as the preferential region for the alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis with fast reaction kinetics.

#### 3. Conclusion

We have reported a Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub> in-plane heterostructure with abundant well-defined Ru–RuO<sub>2</sub> interfaces as electrocatalysts toward HOR in alkaline media. The heterostructured Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub> electrocatalyst exhibits exceptional electrocatalytic activity and decent stability. The unique Ru(100)/RuO<sub>2</sub>(200) interfacial architecture in Ru/RuO<sub>2</sub> heterostructures is capable of achieving an optimal balance between hydrogen and hydroxyl adsorption due to the synergistic effect between interfacial Ru and RuO<sub>2</sub> domains, which enables fast alkaline HOR kinetics. Notably, the metallic Ru domains exhibit substantially improved inoxidizability owing to the strong electronic interaction with RuO<sub>2</sub> domains. As a result, the robust Ru–RuO<sub>2</sub> interfaces maintain

sufficient active sites for bonding with  $H_{ad}$  intermediate. This work demonstrates the significance of establishing robust and multifunctional heterointerfaces with balanced adsorption behaviors of intermediates toward alkaline hydrogen oxidation and beyond.

## 4. Experimental Section

*Materials*: Ruthenium acetylacetonate (Ru(acac)<sub>3</sub>) and Nafion solution (5 wt%) were purchased from Alfa Aesar China Co. Ltd. Pt/C (20 wt%) was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. Potassium bromide (KBr), ethylene glycol (EG,  $\geq$ 99%), CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O, H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, and ethanol were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. Ultrapure deionized water (DIW) (18 MΩ cm<sup>-1</sup>) was used in all the experiments.

Synthesis of  $RuO_{2-x}$  NSs: In a typical synthesis of  $RuO_{2-x}$  NSs, 64 mg  $Ru(acac)_3$  and 120 mg KBr were dissolved into a mixture solution containing 48 mL ethanol and 8 mL DIW. The above solution was stirred under magnetic stirring at 70 °C in a water bath to obtain dull red powders. The obtained powders were calcined at 325 °C for 1.5 h under air atmosphere in a tube furnace and were then cooled to the room temperature naturally. The final product was washed with DIW and ethanol for several times, collected via centrifugation, and eventually freeze-dried.

Synthesis of  $Ru/RuO_2$  NSs with Different Ratios of  $Ru^0/(Ru^{4+}+Ru^0)$ : A series of  $Ru/RuO_2$  samples with different ratios of  $Ru^0/(Ru^{4+}+Ru^0)$  were synthesized via a polyol reduction method. In a typical synthesis procedure, 16 mg as-prepared  $RuO_{2-x}$  powders were dispersed in 32 mL EG/water (volume ratio of 1:1) and sonicated for 20 min. The suspension was transferred into a 100 mL autoclave and kept at 150, 180, and 250 °C for 2 h in an electric oven. The obtained products were washed with DIW and ethanol for several times, collected by centrifugation, and freeze-dried. The final products were named as  $Ru/RuO_2$ -150,  $Ru/RuO_2$ -180, and  $Ru/RuO_2$ -250.

Characterizations: X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded on a RigakuDmax-rc X-ray diffractometer with Cu K $\alpha$  ( $\lambda$  = 1.5418 Å) radiation. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) were acquired with an FEI Tecnai G2 F20 S-TWIN electron microscope operating at 200 kV. Atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM images and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) were collected on an ARM-ARM200F electron microscope operating at 200 kV. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was conducted in the PeakForce mode using BioScope Resolve (Bruker) and analyzed with Nanoscope software. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted on an ESCALAB 250Xi. XAFS spectra at Ru K-edge were acquired under ambient conditions in transmission mode at beamline BL14W1 of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF). The data processing was conducted using Demeter software<sup>[49]</sup> and deconvolved by the wavelet transform (WT) method,<sup>[50]</sup> which mainly includes the analysis of the nature of the backscattering atoms and the bond lengths as well as the Fourier transform (FT) analysis.

Electrochemical Measurements: A standard three-electrode cell system along with an electrochemical workstation (CHI mosdel 760E) was applied for all the electrochemical measurements. A graphite rod was used as the counter electrode and an Ag/AgCl electrode was used as the reference electrode. The Ag/AgCl reference electrode was calibrated to a homemade reversible hydrogen electrode (Figure S22, Supporting Information). Hg/HgO was also calibrated by a reversible hydrogen electrode (E(RHE) = E(Hg/HgO) + 0.810 V) and was used as the reference electrode for stability test in alkaline media. During the electrochemical measurements, the working electrode was prepared by coating the electrocatalyst on a glassy carbon electrode (GCE, 5 mm in diameter). First, the electrocatalyst powders (1 mg) and VulcanXC-72 carbon black (4 mg) were dispersed in a mixed solution containing deionized water (1.5 mL), ethanol (436  $\mu$ L), and Nafion solution (5 wt%, 64  $\mu$ L).

www.advmat.de

Then, the homogeneous electrocatalyst ink (8  $\mu$ L) was dropped onto the GCE surface and dried to obtain the working electrode. The catalyst mass loading on GCE was 20  $ug_{metal}$   $cm^{-2}$ . For HOR test, LSV was performed in H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at a scan rate of 1.0 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with 95% iR compensation. The GCE coated with electrocatalyst of 0.2 mg<sub>metal</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> was used for durability tests in  $H_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution, and chronoamperometry test was performed at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. In addition, the catalyst was also coated on carbon paper (0.2 mg<sub>metal</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup>) with an active area of 1.0 cm<sup>2</sup> for long-term durability test. To evaluate the resistance to CO poisoning of different catalysts, the working electrode with the mass loading of 20 ug<sub>metal</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> on RDE was evaluated via chronoamperometry test at 0.1 V (vs RHE) in H<sub>2</sub>/10 000 ppm CO-saturated KOH solution (0.1 м). For HER test, LSV was performed in Ar-saturated 1.0 m KOH solution at a scan rate of 5.0 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with 95% iR compensation applied.

The specific exchange current density  $(j_0)$  which is normalized to the electrode area was obtained by fitting  $j_k$  with Butler–Volmer equation. [4,51]

$$j_k = j_0 \left( e^{\frac{\alpha F}{RT}\eta} - e^{\frac{-(1-\alpha)F}{RT}\eta} \right) \tag{1}$$

where  $j_0$  is the exchange current,  $\alpha$  is the charge transfer coefficient, R is the universal gas constant (8.314 J mol<sup>-1</sup> K<sup>-1</sup>), T is the temperature (K),  $\alpha$  and  $j_0$  are set as variables.

The kinetic current  $(j_k)$  was calculated based on the Koutecký–Levich equation. [52]

$$\frac{1}{j} = \frac{1}{jk} + \frac{1}{jd} = \frac{1}{jk} + \frac{1}{BC_0\omega^{1/2}} = \frac{1}{jk} + \frac{1}{0.62nFD^{2/3}V^{-1/6}C_0\omega^{1/2}}$$
(2)

where j stands for the measured current density,  $j_d$  represents the diffusion current density, B is the Levich constant,  $C_0$  is the solubility of H<sub>2</sub> (7.33  $\times$  10<sup>-4</sup> mol L<sup>-1</sup>), F is Faraday constant (96 485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>), D is the H<sub>2</sub> diffusion coefficient in 0.1 M NaOH,  $\nu$  is the kinematic viscosity (1.01  $\times$  10<sup>-2</sup> cm² s<sup>-1</sup>), and  $\omega$  is the rotating rate.  $j_d$  can be obtained based on Nernstian diffusion overpotential equation. [4]

$$j_d = j_l \left( 1 - \exp\left( -\frac{2F\eta}{RT} \right) \right) \tag{3}$$

where  $j_l$  is the diffusion-limited current,  $\eta$  represents the overpotential.

The hydrogen adsorption behavior was evaluated by the desorption of the underpotential deposited hydrogen ( $H_{upd}$ ), where CV was performed in the potential range from 0.02 to 0.6 V (vs RHE) at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in Ar-saturated 1.0 m KOH solution. CO stripping test was performed in 0.1 m KOH solution. First, the electrode was held at a certain potential for 10 min in CO-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution adsorb CO. Then, the electrode was transferred rapidly to the Ar-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution, and CV curves were collected in the potential range from 0 to 1.25 V (vs RHE) at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The obtained first forward scan is considered as the stripping of a monolayer of CO.

DFT Calculations: All spin-polarized DFT calculations were carried out by Vienna ab initio simulation package. [53] Exchange-correlation energies and ionic cores were described by the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) functional within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) and projector-augmented wave (PAW) method, respectively. [54] The cutoff energy is 500 eV and the Grimme's dispersion correction method (DFT-D3) is employed to describe the van der Waals (vdW) interactions. The vacuum gap between periodic images is set to 15 Å to avoid interaction.  $1\times 10^{-5}$  eV and 0.05 eV Å<sup>-1</sup> are set as the convergence criteria for energy and residual force, respectively. The Brillouin zone is sampled with a Gamma-centered special k-points grid of  $2\times 2\times 1$  for geometry optimization. The free energy was calculated on the basis of the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model. [55,56] In addition, Bader charge analysis was also employed to determine the specific charge properties of the Ru/RuO2 system.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2022YFB4002503) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52171224). X.Y.Z. acknowledges financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52001278), and Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation (Q21E010027). The authors thank the staff of beamline BL14W1 at the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and the staff at Photoemission End-station (BL10B) in the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (NSRL) for their support in XAFS measurements.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

2208821 (9 of 10)

electrocatalysis, heterostructures, hydrogen oxidation reaction, interface engineering,  $Ru/RuO_2$ 

Received: September 25, 2022 Revised: December 2, 2022 Published online: January 1, 2023 1521495, 2023, 9, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202208821 b University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library or rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensea

- [1] G. Zhao, Y. Jiang, S. Dou, W. Sun, H. Pan, Sci. Bull. 2021, 66, 85.
- [2] L. Gao, Y. Wang, H. Li, Q. Li, N. Ta, L. Zhuang, Q. Fu, X. Bao, Chem. Sci. 2017, 8, 5728.
- [3] F. Xiao, X. Liu, C. J. Sun, I. Hwang, Q. Wang, Z. Xu, Y. Wang, S. Zhu, H. W. Wu, Z. Wei, L. Zheng, D. Cheng, M. Gu, G. L. Xu, K. Amine, M. Shao, *Nano Lett.* 2021, 27, 3633.
- [4] G. Zhao, L. Xia, P. Cui, Y. Qian, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhao, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, Nano Lett. 2021, 21, 4845.
- [5] J. Duan, S. Chen, C. Zhao, Nat. Commun. 2017, 8, 15341.
- [6] X. Zhao, X. Li, L. An, L. Zheng, J. Yang, D. Wang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202206588.
- [7] F. Gao, S. Liu, J. Ge, X. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. Dong, X. Yu, R. Bao, P. Yang, Z. Niu, Z. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M. Gao, Y. Yan, S. Yu, Nat. Catal. 2022, 5, 993.
- [8] L. Zeng, H. Peng, W. Liu, J. Yin, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, J. Power Sources 2020,461, 228147.
- [9] K. Elbert, J. Hu, Z. Ma, Y. Zhang, G. Chen, W. An, P. Liu, H. S. Isaacs, R. R. Adzic, J. X. Wang, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 6764.
- [10] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, Nat. Catal. 2020, 3, 454.
- [11] B. Zhang, X. Xiao, J. Chen, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, M. Gao, Energy Environ. Sci. 2022, 15, 4511.
- [12] B. Zhang, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, J. Wang, D. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Xia, M. Gao, Y. Liu, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* 2022, 13, 5894.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

- [13] Y. Li, J. Abbott, Y. Sun, J. Sun, Y. Du, X. Han, G. Wu, P. Xu, *Appl. Catal B.* **2019**, *258*, 117952.
- [14] Y. Xue, L. Shi, X. Liu, J. Fang, X. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651.
- [15] Z. Siroma, N. Fujiwara, T. Ioroi, S.-i. Yamazaki, H. Senoh, K. Yasuda, K. Tanimoto, *J. Power Sources* **2007**, *172*, 155.
- [16] T. Ioroi, Z. Siroma, S. i. Yamazaki, K. Yasuda, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *9*, 1801284.
- [17] R. Zhao, X. Yue, Q. Li, G. Fu, J. M. Lee, S. Huang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2100391.
- [18] J. Jiang, S. Tao, Q. He, J. Wang, Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 10168.
- [19] Y. Zhao, F. Yang, W. Zhang, Q. Li, X. Wang, L. Su, X. Hu, Y. Wang, Z. Wang, L. Zhuang, S. Chen, W. Luo, *CCS Chem.* **2022**, *4*, 1732.
- [20] Y. Zhao, X. Wang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11751.
- [21] Y. Zhao, X. Wang, Z. Li, P. Zhao, C. Tao, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *33*, 1065.
- [22] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [23] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [24] Y. Yang, X. Sun, G. Han, X. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10644.
- [25] R. Li, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 6888.

*Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208821

- [26] Y. Wang, X. Zheng, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2021**, *15*, 1730.
- [27] J. Lim, J. M. Lee, C. Kim, S.-J. Hwang, J. Lee, W. Choi, *Environ. Sci. Nano* **2019**, *6*, 2084.
- [28] J. Zhang, X. Mao, S. Wang, L. Liang, M. Cao, L. Wang, G. Li, Y. Xu, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e2021168.
- [29] Y. Dang, T. Wu, H. Tan, J. Wang, C. Cui, P. Kerns, W. Zhao, L. Posada, L. Wen, S. L. Suib, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *245*, 5433.
- [30] M. Zhang, J. Chen, H. Li, P. Cai, Y. Li, Z. Wen, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *61*, 576.
- [31] N. Wang, S. Ning, X. Yu, D. Chen, Z. Li, J. Xu, H. Meng, D. Zhao, L. Li, Q. Liu, B. Lu, S. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *302*, 120838.
- [32] I. Abdallah, C. Dupressoire, L. Laffont, D. Monceau, A. Vande Put, *Corros. Sci.* **2019**, *153*, 191.
- [33] W. Zhan, A. Y. Kosinskiy, L. Vines, K. M. Johansen, P. A. Carvalho, O. Prytz, *Materials* **2019**, *12*, 888.
- [34] A. Jiang, Z. Wang, Q. Li, M. Dong, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2021**, *16*, 100300.

- [35] M. Lao, G. Zhao, P. Li, T. Ma, Y. Jiang, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100698.
- [36] S. Zhu, X. Qin, F. Xiao, S. Yang, Y. Xu, Z. Tan, J. Li, J. Yan, Q. Chen, M. Chen, M. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 711.
- [37] J. Shan, C. Guo, Y. Zhu, S. Chen, L. Song, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Chem* **2019**, *5*, 445.
- [38] N. Zhang, C. Wang, J. Chen, C. Hu, J. Ma, X. Deng, B. Qiu, L. Cai, Y. Xiong, Y. Chai, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 8537.
- [39] C. I. Hiley, M. R. Lees, J. M. Fisher, D. Thompsett, S. Agrestini, R. I. Smith, R. I. Walton, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 4423.
- [40] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [41] Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141.
- [42] L. Cai, W. Liu, Z. Cao, H. Li, Y. Cong, X. Zhu, W. Yang, *J. Membr. Sci.* **2020**, *599*, 117702.
- [43] B. Qin, H. Yu, X. Gao, D. Yao, X. Sun, W. Song, B. Yi, Z. Shao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 20374.
- [44] B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, L. Xia, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400.
- [45] Z. Liu, H. Tan, J. Xin, J. Duan, X. Su, P. Hao, J. Xie, J. Zhan, J. Zhang, J. J. Wang, H. Liu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 3699.
- [46] H. A. Miller, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, A. Zadick, L. Dubau, M. Chatenet, S. Geiger, S. Cherevko, H. Doan, R. K. Pavlicek, S. Mukerjee, D. R. Dekel, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *33*, 293.
- [47] W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, M. Gao, J. Zheng, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 5848.
- [48] L. Peng, X. Zheng, L. Li, L. Zhang, N. Yang, K. Xiong, H. Chen, J. Li, Z. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *245*, 122.
- [49] B. Ravel, M. Newville, *J. Synchrotron Rad.* **2005**, *12*, 537.
- [50] H. Funke, A. C. Scheinost, M. Chukalina, *Phys. Rev. B* **2005**, *71*, 094110.
- [51] G. Wang, J. Parrondo, C. He, Y. Li, V. Ramani, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2017**, *164*, F1307.
- [52] J. Ohyama, T. Sato, Y. Yamamoto, S. Arai, A. Satsuma, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 8016.
- [53] M. D. Segall, P. J. D. Lindan, M. J. Probert, C. J. Pickard, P. J. Hasnip, S. J. Clark, M. C. Payne, *J. Phys. Condens. Matter* **2002**, *14*, 2717.
- [54] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [55] V. Viswanathan, H. A. Hansen, J. Rossmeisl, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2012**, *3*, 2948.
- [56] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.