---
source: Zhang 等 - 2021 - Lattice‐Confined Ir Clusters on Pd Nanosheets with Charge Redistribution for the Hydrogen Oxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 51.940s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:44:07.199544Z
---

# **Lattice-Confined Ir Clusters on Pd Nanosheets with Charge Redistribution for the Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction under Alkaline Conditions**

*Baohua Zhang, Guoqiang Zhao, Bingxing Zhang, Lixue Xia, Yinzhu Jiang, Tianyi Ma, Mingxia Gao, Wenping Sun,\* and Hongge Pan\**

**Electrocatalysts with high activity and long-term stability for the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) under alkaline conditions is still a major challenge for anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs). Herein, a heterostructured Ir@Pd electrocatalyst with ultrasmall Ir nanoclusters (NCs) epitaxially confined on Pd nanosheets (NSs) for catalyzing the sluggish alkaline HOR is reported. Apparent charge redistribution occurs across the heterointerface, and both experimental and theoretical results suggest that the electrons transfer from Pd to Ir, which consequently greatly weakens the hydrogen binding on Pd. More interestingly, the interfacial epitaxy results in the formation of Ir/IrO2 Janus nanostructures, where the partially oxidized Ir species away from the interface further optimize the hydroxyl adsorption behavior. The unique Ir@Pd heterostructure eventually shows an optimal balance between hydrogen and hydroxyl adsorption, and hence exhibits impressive HOR activity with an exchange current density of up to 7.18 mA cm–2 in 0.1 m KOH solution. In addition, the Ir@Pd electrocatalyst exhibits negligible activity degradation owing to the confinement effect of the unique epitaxial interface.**

B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Jiang, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan School of Materials Science and Engineering State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization Zhejiang University Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China

E-mail: wenpingsun@zju.edu.cn; honggepan@zju.edu.cn L. Xia

State Key Laboratory of Silicate Materials for Architectures International School of Materials Science and Engineering Wuhan University of Technology Wuhan 430070, P. R. China

T. Ma

Centre for Translational Atomaterials Faculty of Science, Engineering & Technology Swinburne University of Technology Hawthorn, VIC 3122, Australia

H. Pan Institute of Science and Technology for New Energy Xi'an Technological University

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202105400**

Xi'an 710021, P. R. China

## **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen energy is a viable alternative for fossil fuel, which can efficiently alleviate the environment pollution and energy crisis, and has attracted intense interest.[1–4] Hydrogen fuel cells is one of the most promising hydrogen utilization technologies for highly efficient energy conversion.[5,6] Compared with the protonexchange-membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) possess their unique advantages, such as the broader selectivity of cell components, the long-term stability under alkaline conditions, and the facile use of non-precious metal electrocatalysts with Pt-like activity for the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[7–13] However, the sluggish kinetics of the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) as a nonnegligible issue has hindered the development of AEMFCs.[14] Designing robust electrocatalysts with enhanced HOR activity and sta-

bility is of paramount importance for the practical application of AEMFCs.

Until now, it is still a great challenge to simultaneously realize high activity and stability for HOR electrocatalysts in alkaline condition because they are generally inversely correlated.[15,16] Ir possesses appropriate capabilities for the adsorption of hydrogen (Had) and hydroxyl (OHad) species in alkaline media.[17] Theoretically, Ir should exhibit impressive activity and stability for alkaline HOR.[18] However, the highly oxophilic Ir is easily oxidized in the HOR potential region and then shows improved affinity with hydroxyl, making it difficult to maintain a metallic surface for bonding with hydrogen. As a result, Ir usually exhibits insufficient stability for HOR.[19] Rational combination of two components with different bonding behaviors with the intermediates is considered as an effective strategy to break the scaling relation toward the development of highly efficient electrocatalysts.[20,21] Different from Ir, another noble metal, Pd, is not very active for catalyzing alkaline HOR due to its strong bonding with Had, and the Volmer step (Had + OH– ↔ H2O + e + \*) is the rate-determining step (RDS).[10,22–28] However, Pd is extremely stable in particular under alkaline conditions.[29] Hence, we hypothesize it might be an effective

strategy that designing Ir/Pd-based hybrid electrocatalysts with an optimal balance between the adsorption of Had and OHad at the heterointerfaces, thereby enhancing the HOR kinetics accordingly.[20,22,30–33] In addition, engineering epitaxial nanostructures through depositing one nanocrystal on the surface of the other one has been considered as a promising method to develop advanced heterostructured catalysts with superior catalytic performance,[34–36] in great part due to their well-defined structures and heterointerfaces.[34]

Herein, we report a heterostructured Ir@Pd electrocatalyst with enhanced activity and stability toward the HOR under alkaline conditions for the first time. Ultrasmall Ir nanoclusters (NCs) are epitaxially confined on Pd nanosheets (NSs) accompanied with the formation of Ir/IrO2 Janus nanostructures. In the case of Ir@Pd heterostructure, an optimal balance between the adsorption behaviors of Had and OHad species is achieved at the Ir–Pd heterointerface, and the confinement effect of the unique epitaxial interface contributes to substantially enhanced long-term stability. In addition, the interfacial epitaxy structure could effectively inhibit Ir species from being totally oxidized. Hence, the heterostructured Ir@Pd electrocatalyst exhibits an impressive electrocatalytic performance for alkaline HOR.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The synthesis procedure of Ir@Pd heterostructure is illustrated in **Figure 1**a (see Experimental Section for details). Firstly, Pd(acac)2 is reduced by CO that is released by the decomposition of W(CO)6 in octanoic acid at 60 °C, and CO can strongly adsorb on Pd (111) that leads to the formation of ultrathin Pd NSs.[37] Then, Ir NCs are epitaxially grown on the above Pd NSs via a solution-phase epitaxial growth method. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure S1a, Supporting Information) reveals the formation of typical face-centered cubic Pd (JCPDS: 87-0643). The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure S1b,c, Supporting Information) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure S1d,e, Supporting

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Ir@Pd heterostructure. b) TEM image and the particle size distribution (inset) of Ir40%@Pd. c) AFM image and corresponding height profiles (inset) of Ir40%@Pd. d) The HRTEM image and FFT patterns (inset) of Ir40%@Pd. e,f) Selected-area FFT patterns and inverse FFT patterns of Ir, Pd (e) and IrO2 (f). g) EDX line-scanning profile and the HAADF-STEM image (inset) of the corresponding Ir40%@Pd.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2021, 43, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202105400 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Information) indicate that Pd NSs possess a typical graphenelike nanosheet morphology with smooth surface. The lattice spacings of 0.23 nm in the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image can be ascribed to the (111) planes of Pd nanosheets (Figure S1f, Supporting Information). The thickness of Pd NSs is determined to be around 5.1 nm (Figure S1g,h, Supporting Information).

The nanosheet morphology is still well maintained after depositing Ir NCs (Figure S2, Supporting Information), and, as can be seen from Figure 1b, ultrasmall Ir NCs with the average size of 1 nm are uniformly anchored on Pd NSs. The thickness of Ir40%@Pd is 6.1 nm (Figure 1c), suggesting that the Ir NCs are composed of 4 layers of Ir atoms. The lattice spacings of 0.23 nm can be attributed to the (111) planes of either Ir or Pd due to their similar lattice parameters (Figure 1d). Interestingly, the fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns show two sets of symmetries (inset, Figure 1d), and the inverse FFT (IFFT) images are generated by selecting each of the two FFT patterns. As shown in Figure 1e, the lattice fringes with an angle of 55° correspond to the (111) planes of Ir and Pd.[38,39] The tetragonal symmetry can be indexed to IrO2, and the lattice spacings of 0.22 nm with an angle of 90° correspond to the (200) planes of IrO2 (Figure 1d–f).[40] The results indicate that the Ir NCs are not purely metallic but partially oxidized due to their ultrasmall size and the confinement of the Pd support. The partially oxidized surface of Ir NCs is capable of enhancing the HOR activity by tuning the adsorption behavior of the reaction intermediate (e.g., Had, OHad).[41] In addition, the continuous lattice fringes across the interface between Ir and Pd clearly demonstrate the epitaxial growth of Ir NCs on Pd NSs (Figure 1e). More importantly, the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) line scan (Figure 1g) further verifies the epitaxial relationship between Ir NCs and Pd NSs. The EDS elemental mapping images confirm the uniform distribution of Ir NCs on the Pd NS (Figure S2c–e, Supporting Information). In the meantime, Ir nanoparticles (NPs) and carbon black supported Ir NCs (Ir/C) were also synthesized for comparison (Figure S3a,b, Supporting Information). The size of Ir anchored on carbon black is about 1.2 nm, very close to that of Ir40%@Pd. Pd NSs after hydrothermal treatment possess a typical graphene-like nanosheets morphology with smooth surface, as shown in Figure S4 in the Supporting Information, which is similar to the as-prepared Pd NSs.

As shown in **Figure 2**a, diffraction peaks related to Ir are missing in the XRD patterns of Ir40%@Pd and Ir/C, suggesting that the ultrasmall Ir NCs possess low crystalline.[18] The broad diffraction peaks of Ir NPs and Ir/C sample correspond to the (111) plane of Ir metal.[18] The chemical states of Ir@Pd heterostructures, Pd NSs, Ir/C, and Ir NPs were probed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and the survey spectra are shown in Figure S5 in the Supporting Information. The highresolution Pd 3d XPS spectra for Ir40%@Pd and Pd NSs are shown in **Figure 3**b. Ir40%@Pd displays a remarkable positive core-level shift of 0.8 eV as compared with Pd NSs, indicating that electrons transfer from Pd to Ir in the Ir@Pd system.[42,43] As shown in Figure 2c, the Ir 4f peaks can be deconvoluted into two states of Ir0 and Ir4<sup>+</sup>, and the relative peak area ratio reveals that metallic Ir accounts for the majority of Ir species. The binding energies of Ir 4f7/2 peaks for Ir<sup>0</sup> are located at 61.4, 61.5 and 61.7 eV for Ir40%@Pd, Ir/C, and Ir NPs, respectively. It is interesting to notice that the binding energies of Ir 4f for Ir@Pd system still shift positively although Ir species accept electrons from Pd. This uncommon shift can be ascribed to the formation of IrO2 species in Ir@Pd system, where electrons transfer from Ir to O.[19] Moreover, based on the quantitative XPS analysis, the content of Ir4<sup>+</sup> is calculated to be 43.7 and 32.5 wt% for Ir40%@Pd and Ir/C, respectively. X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) measurements were performed to gain deeper insights into the electronic structure.[44] Figure 2d and Figure S6a (Supporting Information) display the Pd K-edge XANES spectra, and the adsorption edge of the Ir40%@Pd heterostructure shifts positively as compared with pure Pd NSs, further indicating the decreased electron density around Pd sites after introducing Ir species. As for the Ir L3-edge XANES spectra (Figure 2e; Figure S6b, Supporting Information), the white line intensity of Ir40%@Pd gets much stronger than those of Ir/C and Ir foil, indicating significantly decreased 5d electron density of Ir in Ir40%@Pd and the existence of oxidized Ir species with high valence state. The XANES results are fully in accordance with the XPS results, confirming that intense charge redistribution happens at the heterointerface with electron transferring from Pd to Ir.[38] Extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements were further conducted to examine the local coordination environment, and the detailed fitting results are listed in Table S1. The fitted EXAFS spectra of Pd K-edge are shown in Figure 2f, and the coordination structure of Pd is not affected after the incorporation of Ir. Figure 2g shows the Ir L3-edge of the Ir40%@Pd, and the prominent peak between 1 and 2 Å is derived from Ir–O, and the peak between 2 and 3 Å can be assigned to Ir–Ir.[38] The wavelet transforms for the k3 -weighted EXAFS signals of the Ir L3-edge are shown in Figure 2h. The result confirms that there are considerable amounts of Ir-O in Ir40%@Pd heterostructure.

The HOR electrocatalytic performances were examined by a rotating disk electrode (RDE) with a standard three-electrode system. A low sweep rate of 1 mV s–1 was selected to minimize the capacitance contribution and guarantee a steady-state measurement.[45] The polarization curves obtained in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm are presented in Figure 3a. The anodic current above 0 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) is assigned to the oxidation of H2, because no current is detected in N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The Ir40%@Pd electrocatalyst possesses a lowest onset potential for yielding HOR current. It can be observed that the current density of Ir40%@Pd is higher than those of other electrocatalysts in the whole potential range. Meanwhile, both Ir NPs and Pd NSs especially Pd NSs, show negligible HOR activity, which strongly suggests that the enhanced catalytic activity of Ir@Pd derived from the synergetic effect between Ir and Pd. The intrinsic HOR activities were further compared on the basis of the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA)-normalized current density (Figure 3b; Figure S8, Supporting Information). The ECSAs of the samples are determined by the hydrogen underpotential deposition method, and are calculated from the H desorption region by using a charge density of 218 µC cm–2 for Ir40%@Pd, Ir/C, and Ir NPs, 424 µC cm–2 for Pd NSs and 210 µC cm–2 for Pt/C.[46] As shown in Figure 3b and Figure S9 (Supporting Information), Ir40%@Pd still exhibits the highest ECSA-normalized

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2021, 43, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/anda.202105400 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/205], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-

**Figure 2.** a) The XRD of  $Ir_{40\%}$  @Pd, Pd NSs, Ir/C, and Ir NPs. b) Pd 3d XPS spectra of  $Ir_{40\%}$  @Pd and Pd NSs. c) Ir 4f XPS spectra of  $Ir_{40\%}$  @Pd, Ir/C, and Ir NPs. d) Pd K-edge XANES spectra of  $Ir_{40\%}$  @Pd and Pd NSs obtained using Pd foil and standard PdO powders as references. e) Ir Ir Ir Ir Ir Ir Ir Ir

current density. Figure 3c and Figure S10 (Supporting Information) show the polarization curves at different rotation speeds, and the current density increases with increasing rotation speed owing to the improved mass transportation.<sup>[47]</sup> The overall current density is under mixed kinetic-diffusion control. The diffusion-limited current density  $(j_d)$  for a RDE is described by the Koutecky-Levich equation as a function of rotation speed (Figure 3d; Figure S10, Supporting Information). A linear relationship between the inverse of j at an overpotential of 50 mV and  $\omega^{1/2}$  is observed in the Koutecky–Levich plots. The calculated slopes are 4.51, 4.98, 5.36, 4.48 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> for Ir<sub>40%</sub> @Pd, Ir NPs, Ir/C, and Pt/C, respectively, which are close to the theoretical value (4.87 cm $^2$  mA $^{-1}$  s $^{-1/2}$  for the two-electron HOR). [48] The Tafel plots of  $j_k$  versus potential fitted with Butler-Volmer equation are shown in Figure 3e. In addition, the  $j_k$ values calculated from Koutecky-Levich equation at an overpotential of 40 mV (vs RHE) are shown in Figure S11 in the Supporting Information. The exchange current densities (j<sub>0</sub>) are extracted by fitting the kinetic current densities according to the Butler–Volmer equation. The  $Ir_{40\%}$ @Pd catalyst possesses a geometric  $j_0$  of 7.18 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is significantly higher than those of Ir/C (3.29 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ir NPs (1.41 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Pt/C (4.23 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). The mass-normalized current density of  $Ir_{40\%}$ @Pd, Ir/C, Ir NPs, and Pt/C at the overpotential of 50 mV (vs RHE) are shown in Figure 3f.  $Ir_{40\%}$ @Pd electrocatalyst exhibits the highest values of  $j_k$ ,  $j_0$ , and mass-normalized current density, further evidencing its enhanced catalytic performance.

The performance stability is another prominent concern for advanced electrocatalysts. As shown in Figure 3g, after a continuous operation at 0.1 V (vs RHE) for 10 h,  $Ir_{40}$ @Pd shows negligible decay in the current density (<6.7%). In contrast, the HOR activities of Ir/C and Pt/C lose 60% and 18.1%, respectively. Furthermore, the morphology and structures of Ir@Pd are well sustained after the stability test, and the Ir clusters are still epitaxially confined on Pd NSs (Figure S12a,b, Supporting

**Figure 3.** a) Geometric area-normalized HOR polarization curves and b) ECSA-normalized polarization curves in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 1 mV s–1. c) Polarization curves of Ir40%@Pd at different rotation rates. d) The Koutecky–Levich plot of Ir40%@ Pd at an overpotential of 50 mV (vs RHE). e) Calculated HOR kinetic current densities (*J*k) versus potential plots of Ir40%@Pd, Ir NPs, Ir/C, and Pt/C catalysts. f) Comparison of the mass-normalized current density at the overpotential of 50 mV and *j*0 of Ir40%@Pd, Ir NPs, Ir/C, and Pt/C. g) Steady stability test of the electrocatalysts for the HOR. Relative chronoamperometry response of Ir40%@Pd, Ir/C, Pt/C in an H2-saturated 0.1m KOH solution at 0.1V (vs RHE) operated on an RDE. h) HER polarization curves in N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 5 mV s–1. i) CO-stripping profiles on Ir40%@Pd, Ir/C, Ir NPs, and Pd NSs.

Information). In contrast, apparent aggregation of Ir species occurs in Ir/C (Figure S12c,d, Supporting Information). The epitaxial growth results in the formation of Ir–Pd bonds, which should contribute substantially to the structure integrity and stability improvement of the Ir@Pd catalyst. Figure 3h shows the HER polarization curves of Ir40%@Pd, Ir NPs, Ir/C, Pt/C, and Pd NSs in 1.0 m KOH solution. It can be unambiguously seen that Ir40%@Pd exhibits the highest catalytic activity, showing an overpotential of 42.8 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which is much superior to the activity of Ir NPs (125.6 mV), Ir/C (101.5 mV) and Pt/C (78.6 mV). The Ir20%@Pd and Ir60%@Pd electrocatalysts were also synthesized and investigated for comparison (Figures S13–S16, Supporting Information). Similarly, both Ir20%@Pd and Ir60%@Pd deliver substantially the enhanced alkaline HOR and HER activity over other controlled samples, strongly validating the feasibility of the proposed catalyst design strategy toward fast alkaline hydrogen electrocatalysis. The CO stripping test was employed to evaluate the strength of OH binding on the electrocatalysts (Figure 3i). The CO oxidation peak of Ir40%@Pd is located at 0.83 V (vs RHE), which shifts negatively as compared to Ir/C (0.90 V), Ir NPs (0.96 V), and Pd NSs (0.91 V), suggesting that Ir40%@Pd has stronger binding with OH.[24,49]

DFT calculations were employed to further elucidate the origin of the enhanced intrinsic activity of the Ir@Pd heterostructure toward the alkaline HOR. The details of the chargedensity distribution of Ir@Pd are shown in **Figure 4**a and Figure S17 (Supporting Information). The results verify the electron transfer from Pd to Ir at the Ir–Pd interface as well as the electron transfer form Ir to O. The result is consistent with the XPS and XANES analysis, verifying that the electron transfer process occurs in the heterostructured catalyst. To shed more light on the origin of the high intrinsic activity, we calculated the adsorption energy of Had and OHad on different

**Figure 4.** a) Charge-density distribution of the Ir@Pd model. Isosurface value is set to 0.05 e Å−<sup>3</sup> the yellow and cyan regions refer to the increased and decreased charge distributions, respectively. b) DFT-optimized structures of H and OH intermediates at Pd, Ir, and interfacial sites of Ir@Pd heterostruture. c) Free-energy diagram for H adsorption on Pd, Ir, and Ir@Pd heterostructure. d) Free-energy diagram for OH adsorption on Pd, Ir, and Ir@Pd heterostructure. e) DOS plots of Ir@Pd heterostructure and pure Pd. f) DOS plots of the Ir@Pd heterostructure and pure Ir.

Pd and Ir sites in Ir@Pd, pure Ir, and pure Pd (Figures S18 and S19, Supporting Information), and the optimal adsorption sites are presented in Figure 4b. Ir@Pd interface possesses optimized adsorption behaviors of Had and OHad. As can be seen from Figure 4c, Ir@Pd heterostructure exhibits an ideal hydrogen adsorption energy (Δ*G*H) of 0.02 eV, that is very close to the ideal value of 0 eV for hydrogen electrocatalysis,[50,51] which is superior to that of Pd (−0.51 eV) and Ir (−0.28 eV). Also, Ir@Pd displays stronger adsorption behavior of OHad (Figure 4d). In addition, the d-band density of states (d-DOS) of Ir@Pd (Pd) and Pd are located at −1.86 and −1.75 eV, respectively (Figure 4e). As a result, a downshift of the d-band center occurs when the Ir–Pd interface is constructed, which is associated with the decreased binding strength of hydrogen at the Ir–Pd interface.[52] The much weakened hydrogen adsorption behavior would tremendously facilitate the Volmer step for alkaline HOR. The d-band center of Ir in Ir@Pd (−2.16 eV) shifts closer to the Femi level compared to that of pure Ir (−2.57 eV) (Figure 4f), indicating the enhanced binding strength of hydroxide.[5] Such an enhanced OH adsorption behavior would facilitate the capture of hydroxide species on the surface of Ir@Pd, thereby accelerating the Volmer step via a bifunctional mechanism at the Ir-Pd interface. More interestingly, partially oxidized Ir species possess stronger hydroxyl adsorption compared to Ir in Ir@Pd (Figures S18 and S19, Supporting Information), proving that the formation of Ir/IrO2 Janus nanostructure contributes to further enhanced OH adsorption. Therefore, the balanced H and OH adsorption behaviors induced by the synergetic effect between Pd and Ir at the Ir@Pd heterostructure interface play a vital role in promoting the HOR kinetics in alkaline electrolytes, as schematically illustrated in **Figure 5**.

## **3. Conclusion**

We have reported a heterostructured Ir@Pd electrocatalyst with Ir nanoclusters confined on Pd nanosheets via the epitaxial growth toward HOR in alkaline media. Importantly, the optimal

**Figure 5.** Schematic illustration of the alkaline HOR mechanism of Ir@Pd.

Ir@Pd electrocatalyst exhibits substantially improved electrocatalytic performance and decent stability. The electron donation from Pd to Ir would weaken the hydrogen binding energy and the partially oxidized Ir surface results in electron transfer from Ir to O that can further strengthen OH adsorption. Therefore, the charge redistribution in heterostructured Ir@Pd electrocatalyst leads to an optimal balance between hydrogen and hydroxyl adsorption at the heterointerface, which can consequently accelerate the RDS step and improve the HOR activity. In addition, the epitaxial growth of Ir clusters contributes significantly to the enhanced durability of the heterostructured electrocatalyst. This work demonstrates the significance of controlling the well-defined heterointerface with charge redistribution and balanced adsorption behaviors toward fast alkaline hydrogen oxidation kinetics.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: Pd(acac)2, IrCl3, K2IrCl6, trioctylphosphine oxide (TOPO), Mo(CO)6, and Pt/C (20 wt%) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Octanoic acid was purchased from Macklin. Ethylene glycol (EG, ≥99%), potassium hydroxide (90%, KOH), ethanol (99.9%), and *N,N*dimethylformamide (DMF) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. Nafion solution were purchased from Alfa Aesar China Co. Ltd. Ultrapure deionized water (UP, 18 MΩ cm–1) was used in all the experiments. All the chemicals were used as received without further purification.

*Synthesis of Pd Nanosheets*: Pd NSs were synthesized via a modified method based on the previous work.[53] In a typical synthetic process, Pd(acac)2 (20 mg) and TOPO (260 mg) were added into octanoic acid (16 mL) in a 50 mL round-bottom flask and sonicated for 2 min. The mixture was magnetically stirred under N2 bubbling for 0.5 h in 60 °C water bath. Then, 20 mg of Mo(CO)6 and 3 mL of DMF were added into the above mixture solution in succession, and then the mixture was stirred for another 1 h in N2 atmosphere protection. The color of the solution was changed from faint yellow to dark blue within 10 min, indicating palladium ions were reduced. The final products were collected by centrifugation at 10 000 rpm for 3 min, washed with deionized water and ethanol for several times, and dried by the freeze drying.

*Synthesis of Ir@Pd Heterostructures*: Ir@Pd heterostructures were synthesized via a polyol reduction method. 4 mg Pd were added in 30 mL of EG-water (volume ratio = 1:1) solution and sonicated for 20 min. Then 4.2 mg of IrCl3 was added into the above solution and sonicated for another 10 min to form a uniform suspension. The suspension was transferred into a 100 mL autoclave and heated at 180 °C for 2 h to obtain Ir@Pd heterostructures. When cooled to the room temperature, the obtained products were collected by centrifugation, washed with deionized water and ethanol, and dried by the freeze drying. The obtained samples were named as Ir20%@Pd, Ir40%@Pd and Ir60%@Pd with adding different amount of IrCl3 (1.56, 4.2, and 9.4 mg). Pd NSs were also treated according to the above procedure without adding IrCl3 for comparison.

*Synthesis of Ir/C*: The procedure for the synthesis of Ir/C was same as that synthesis of Ir40%@Pd with 4 mg carbon black instead of Pd NSs.

*Synthesis of Ir NPs*: 4.2 mg of K2IrCl6 was added 30 mL EG forming a homogeneous solution, the solution was transferred into a 100 mL autoclave and heated at 180 °C for 2 h.

*Characterizations*: X-ray diffraction (XRD) was tested using a RigakuDmax-rc X-ray diffractometer with Ni-filtered Cu K*α* (*λ* = 1.5418 Å) radiation. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was performed using a F20 TEM. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) and energydispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) characterizations were carried out on a F20. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was conducted on a SU-3500 SEM. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was conducted by means of Veeco DI Nano-scope MultiMode V system. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) characterization was performed with a photoelectron spectrometer (ESCALAB 250). Pd K-edge and Ir L3-edge XAFS were collected at beamline BL14W1 at the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and the BL17C and 44A beamlines in the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center. The data processing was performed using Demeter software and then further deconvolved by the wavelet transform (WT) method using the Igor Pro script by Funke et al.[54] This procedure was mainly focused on analyzing the nature of the backscattering atoms and the bond lengths as well as complementing the conventional Fourier transform (FT) analysis by connecting the contributions in the EXAFS spectra to the FT peaks.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: All electrochemical measurements were carried out using a standard three-electrode cell system on a CHI 760E electrochemical workstation at room temperature, with a Ag/ AgCl electrode as the reference electrode, a graphite rod as the counter electrode, and a glassy carbon electrode (GCE) with a diameter of 5 mm coated with electrocatalysts as the working electrode. For the preparation of thin-film working electrodes, the catalyst ink solutions were loaded on the surface of GCE with the mass loading of 20 µgmetal cm–2. The catalyst ink solutions were prepared by dispersing certain amount of catalysts in Nafion aqueous solutions. Taking Ir@Pd heterostructures as an example, 1 mg of obtained powders and 4 mg of VulcanXC-72 were dispersed in a mixed 2 mL solution contaning 1.5 mL of deionized water, 436 µL of ethanol and 64 µL of 5% Nafion solution, followed by 20 min of ultrasonication. Then, 8 µL electrocatalyst ink was dropped onto the GCE surface. After being dried, the electrode was used for the electrochemical measurements. For the HER, the electrocatalysts were evaluated by LSV in N2-saturated KOH solution (1.0 m) at a scan rate of 5.0 mV s–1 with 95% iR correction. For the HOR, LSV was carried out in H2-saturated KOH solution (0.1 m) at a scan rate of 1.0 mV s–1 with 95% iR correction. The durability tests used the electrocatalysts with loading of 0.2 mgmetal cm–2 were performed in 1.0 m KOH solution by amperometric *i*–*t* curve test with rotating disk electrode.

CVs were collected in N2-saturated 1 m KOH solutions at a scanning rate of 50 mV s–1 from 0 to 1.2 V versus RHE. Hydrogen desorption was used to determine the electrochemical surface area of the electrodes. CO stripping voltammetry was implemented in 0.1 m KOH with the CV measurement. Firstly, the electrode was performed with amperometric *i*–*t* test for 10 min with CO saturated 0.1 m KOH solution

for CO adsorption. Then the electrode was transferred in Ar saturated 0.1 m KOH solution rapidly. The CO was oxidized with CV in the potential range of 0–1.3 V versus RHE and at a scan rate of 200 mV s–1. The first forward scan represents the stripping of a monolayer of CO.

*DFT Calculations*: All spin polarized DFT calculations were carried out using the CASTEP code.[55] All-electron calculations were employed using the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) and the Perdew, Bueke, and Ernzerhof (PBE) functional.[56] The ultrasoft pseudopotentials were used, which were fairly efficient than the normconserving pseudopotentials. The plane-wave cutoff energy was 450 eV and the Grimme method for DFT-D3 was used to account for van der Waals (vdW) interactions. The minimum energies for all structures were obtained until energy became less than 2 × 10−<sup>5</sup> eV per atom. The vacuum gap between periodic images was set to 15 Å to avoid interaction. The Brillouin zone was sampled with a 2 × 2 × 1 Gamma centered special k points grid for geometry optimization. The free energy profile was obtained based on the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model proposed by Nørskov and co-workers.[57,58] In this model, the free energy of proton-electron pair was equal to that of 1/2 H2(g). The free energy change for each fundamental step was determined by

$$\Delta G = \Delta E + E_{ZPE} - T\Delta S \tag{1}$$

where Δ*E* is the difference of electronic energy directly obtained from DFT simulation. Δ*E*ZPE is the variation of zero-point energy (ZPE), Δ*S* is the entropy (S) change, *T* is the temperature (*T* = 298.15 K), For the molecular in gas phase H2, the ZPE and S were taken from NIST5 database.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by "Hundred Talents Program" of Zhejiang University, the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52001278), China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No. 2020M671712), and Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation (Q21E010027). The authors thank the staff of beamline BL14W1 at the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and the staff at Photoemission End-station (BL10B) in the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (NSRL) for their support in XAFS measurements.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

## **Keywords**

electrocatalysis, epitaxial growth, heterostructures, hydrogen oxidation reaction, interface chemistry

> Received: July 13, 2021 Published online: September 21, 2021

- [1] Z. Zeng, K.-C. Chang, J. Kubal, N. M. Markovic, J. Greeley, *Nat. Energy* **2017**, *2*, 17070.
- [2] N. Ramaswamy, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, Q. Jia, J. Li, S. Mukerjee, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *41*, 765.
- [3] H. Xu, H. Shang, C. Wang, Y. Du, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2006317.
- [4] H. Cheng, L. X. Ding, G. F. Chen, L. Zhang, J. Xue, H. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1803694.
- [5] Y. Yang, X. Sun, G. Han, X. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Zhang, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10644.
- [6] J. Nash, J. Zheng, Y. Wang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, J3378.
- [7] T. Zhou, N. Zhang, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 1132.
- [8] F. Xiao, Y. C. Wang, Z. P. Wu, G. Chen, F. Yang, S. Zhu, K. Siddharth, Z. Kong, A. Lu, J. C. Li, C. J. Zhong, Z. Y. Zhou, M. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* 2006292, <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202006292>.
- [9] F. Xiao, X. Liu, C. J. Sun, I. Hwang, Q. Wang, Z. Xu, Y. Wang, S. Zhu, H. W. Wu, Z. Wei, L. Zheng, D. Cheng, M. Gu, G. L. Xu, K. Amine, M. Shao, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 3633.
- [10] H. Xu, H. Shang, C. Wang, Y. Du, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000793.
- [11] G. Zhao, L. Xia, P. Cui, Y. Qian, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhao, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 4845.
- [12] W. Sheng, A. P. Bivens, M. Myint, Z. Zhuang, R. V. Forest, Q. Fang, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 1719.
- [13] L. Zhang, P. Lu, Y. Luo, J. Y. Zheng, W. Ma, L.-X. Ding, H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 9609.
- [14] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [15] N. Danilovic, R. Subbaraman, K. C. Chang, S. H. Chang, Y. J. Kang, J. Snyder, A. P. Paulikas, D. Strmcnik, Y. T. Kim, D. Myers, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2014**, *5*, 2474.
- [16] J. Staszak-Jirkovsky, C. D. Malliakas, P. P. Lopes, N. Danilovic, S. S. Kota, K. C. Chang, B. Genorio, D. Strmcnik, V. R. Stamenkovic, M. G. Kanatzidis, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2016**, *15*, 197.
- [17] J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasché, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255.
- [18] L. Fu, Y. Li, N. Yao, F. Yang, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7322.
- [19] Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454.
- [20] S. M. Alia, B. S. Pivovar, Y. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 13473.
- [21] X. Qin, L. Zhang, G.-L. Xu, S. Zhu, Q. Wang, M. Gu, X. Zhang, C. Sun, P. B. Balbuena, K. Amine, M. Shao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 9614.
- [22] V. Bambagioni, C. Bianchini, Y. X. Chen, J. Filippi, P. Fornasiero, M. Innocenti, A. Lavacchi, A. Marchionni, W. Oberhauser, F. Vizza, *ChemSusChem* **2012**, *5*, 1266.
- [23] W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, M. Gao, J. Zheng, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 5848.
- [24] H. A. Miller, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, A. Zadick, L. Dubau, M. Chatenet, S. Geiger, S. Cherevko, H. Doan, R. K. Pavlicek, S. Mukerjee, D. R. Dekel, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *33*, 293.
- [25] S. Aliaa, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F849.
- [26] E. G. Mahoney, W. Sheng, Y. Yan, J. G. Chen, *ChemElectroChem* **2014**, *1*, 2058.
- [27] J. Zheng, S. Zhou, S. Gu, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2016**, *163*, F499.
- [28] H. Xu, H. Shang, C. Wang, Y. Du, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2005092.
- [29] N. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Kang, C. Ye, R. Jin, H. Yan, R. Lin, J. Yang, Q. Xu, Y. Wang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, L. Liu, W. Song, J. Liu, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 2.
- [30] F. Yang, X. Bao, P. Li, X. Wang, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 14179.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2021, 43, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202105400 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [31] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [32] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z. F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.
- [33] Z. Li, Q. Wu, C. Wu, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2002807.
- [34] C. Tan, Z. Zeng, X. Huang, X. Rui, X. J. Wu, B. Li, Z. Luo, J. Chen, B. Chen, Q. Yan, H. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 1841.
- [35] M. Kluenker, M. Nawaz Tahir, R. Ragg, K. Korschelt, P. Simon, T. E. Gorelik, B. Barton, S. I. Shylin, M. Panthöfer, J. Herzberger, H. Frey, V. Ksenofontov, A. Möller, U. Kolb, J. Grin, W. Tremel, *Chem. Mat.* **2017**, *29*, 1134.
- [36] W. L. Weng, C. Y. Hsu, J. S. Lee, H. H. Fan, C. N. Liao, *Nanoscale* **2018**, *10*, 9862.
- [37] M. Luo, Z. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Sun, Y. Xing, F. Lv, Y. Yang, X. Zhang, S. Hwang, Y. Qin, J. Y. Ma, F. Lin, D. Su, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nature* **2019**, *574*, 81.
- [38] G. Zhao, Y. Jiang, S. X. Dou, W. P. Sun, H. G. Pan, *Sci. Bull.* **2021**, *66*, 85.
- [39] J. Mahmood, M. A. R. Anjum, S. H. Shin, I. Ahmad, H. J. Noh, S. J. Kim, H. Y. Jeong, J. S. Lee, J. B. Baek, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1805606.
- [40] S. M. Alia, B. S. Pivovar, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, F441.
- [41] H. Wang, Z. N. Chen, D. Wu, M. Cao, F. Sun, H. Zhang, H. You, W. Zhuang, R. Cao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 4639.
- [42] D. D. Babu, Y. Huang, G. Anandhababu, X. Wang, R. Si, M. Wu, Q. Li, Y. Wang, J. Yao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 8376.
- [43] G. Zhao, P. Li, N. Cheng, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000872.
- [44] A. M. Abdel-Mageed, D. Widmann, S. E. Olesen, I. Chorkendorff, R. J. Behm, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5399.

- [45] Y. Duan, Z. Y. Yu, L. Yang, L. R. Zheng, C. T. Zhang, X. T. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, X. Yu, R. Liu, H. H. Ding, C. Gu, X. S. Zheng, L. Shi, J. Jiang, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4789.
- [46] H. A. Miller, A. Lavacchi, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, F. D. Benedetto, F. DÏAcapito, Y. Paska, M. Page, D. R. Dekel, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6004.
- [47] Z. Zhuang, S. A. Giles, J. Zheng, G. R. Jenness, S. Caratzoulas, D. G. Vlachos, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10141.
- [48] F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, P. Liao, Y. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4531.
- [49] J. Zheng, W. C. Sheng, Z. B. Zhuang, B. J. Xu, Y. S. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501602.
- [50] C. Li, J. B. Baek, *ACS Omega* **2020**, *5*, 31.
- [51] K. Xu, H. Ding, M. Zhang, M. Chen, Z. Hao, L. Zhang, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606980.
- [52] L. Zhao, H. Liu, Y. Liu, X. Han, J. Xu, W. Xing, W. Guo, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 40248.
- [53] N. Yang, H. Cheng, X. Liu, Q. Yun, Y. Chen, B. Li, B. Chen, Z. Zhang, X. Chen, Q. Lu, J. Huang, Y. Huang, Y. Zong, Y. Yang, L. Gu, H. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1803234.
- [54] H. Funke, A. C. Scheinost, M. Chukalina, *Phys. Rev. B* **2005**, *71*, 094110.
- [55] M. D. Segall, P. J. D. Lindan, M. J. Probert, C. J. Pickard, P. J. Hasnip, S. J. Clark, M. C. Payne, *J. Phys. Condens. Matter* **2002**, *14*, 2717.
- [56] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [57] V. Viswanathan, H. A. Hansen, J. Rossmeisl, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2012**, *3*, 2948.
- [58] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.