---
source: Zhang 等 - 2025 - Ru‐MnO Heterostructure Clusters Toward Efficient and CO‐Tolerant Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reactio.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 30.720s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:50:13.566640Z
---

# **Ru-MnO Heterostructure Clusters Toward Efficient and CO-Tolerant Alkaline Hydrogen Oxidation Reaction**

*Shaoqing Zhang, Renjie Ren, Jing Cao, Dezheng Zhang, Jingsen Bai, Ce Han, Li Xiao, Lin Zhuang,\* Ping Song,\* and Weilin Xu\**

**Designing efficient and CO-tolerant catalysts for hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in anode is one of the challenges for alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells in practical application. Herein, Ru-MnO heterostructure with two adjacent clusters supported on commercial carbon (BP 2000) (denoted as Ru-MnO/C) is designed to accelerate the sluggish kinetics of alkaline HOR. The cluster–cluster heterostructure interface modifies the electronic structure of Ru sites with electron transfer from Ru to MnO, then optimizes the adsorption of intermediates on Ru sites. Consequently, this catalyst exhibits high catalytic HOR activities in alkaline media with high exchange current density (3.71 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and mass activity (0.78 A mgRu<sup>−</sup>1). Meanwhile, the alkaline exchange membrane fuel cell delivers a specific peak power density (PPD) of 7.0 W mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Ru under H2/O2 condition, which is higher than that of most reported catalysts. More importantly, the catalyst also demonstrates the remarkable stability and CO-tolerance. This work presents the superiority of cluster–cluster heterostructure interface toward efficient HOR, which is expected to further enlighten the design of advanced catalysts for electrocatalysis.**

**1. Introduction**

Fuel cell is an important device for hydrogen society that directly converts the hydrogen energy into electricity by

S. Zhang, J. Cao, D. Zhang, J. Bai, C. Han, P. Song, W. Xu State Key Laboratory of Electroanalytical Chemistry and Jilin Province Key Laboratory of Low Carbon Chemical Power Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry

Chinese Academy of Sciences

5625 Renmin Street, Changchun 130022, P. R. China E-mail: [songping@ciac.ac.cn;](mailto:songping@ciac.ac.cn)[weilinxu@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:weilinxu@ciac.ac.cn)

S. Zhang, J. Cao, D. Zhang, J. Bai, W. Xu School of Applied Chemistry and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China

USTC

Hefei 230026, P. R. China

R. Ren, L. Xiao, L. Zhuang College of Chemistry and Molecular Sciences

Hubei Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Power Sources

Wuhan University Wuhan 430072, P. R. China E-mail: [lzhuang@whu.edu.cn](mailto:lzhuang@whu.edu.cn)

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202404266>

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202404266**

electrochemical reactions.[\[1\]](#page-6-0) Compared with the proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), low-cost alkaline exchange membrane fuel cells (AEM-FCs) have been regarded as the most promising technological means to replace PEMFCs, due to the cheap nonplatinum (Pt) electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in cathode.[\[1c,2\]](#page-6-0) However, the reaction kinetics of hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in alkaline media is around two orders of magnitude lower than that in the acidic environment, resulting in undesirable performance and high loading of precious Pt-based electrocatalysts.[\[3\]](#page-6-0) Moreover, due to the strong adsorption between CO and platinum group of metals (PGM), anode catalysts are easily poisoned by low levels of CO in crude hydrogen which is the most accessible hydrogen source.[\[4\]](#page-6-0) Therefore, it is crucial to explore high-performance non-Pt HOR

electrocatalysts with high CO-tolerance for the practical application of AEMFCs.[\[3a,b,5\]](#page-6-0)

Ruthenium (Ru)-based HOR electrocatalyst is regarded as an ideal potential alternative to Pt in alkaline media. Ru (≈270\$ per oz) is much cheaper than Pt (≈1023\$ per oz) and possesses reasonable hydroxyl binding energy (OHBE) and hydrogen binding energy (HBE), which are major descriptors for alkaline HOR according to bifunctional theory.[\[1,3a,6\]](#page-6-0) However, it is still a great challenge for Ru-based catalysts to overcome the sluggish kinetics and low CO-tolerance. Recently, the combination of Ru with 3d transition metal oxides is found to be a plausible way to achieve higher HOR activity in alkaline media.[\[2b,4a,5,7\]](#page-6-0) The interfacial interaction between Ru and 3d metal oxides support is able to modify the electronic structure and adsorption properties of Ru sites, which can optimize the balance between Had and OHad on the catalyst surface.[\[2b,3a,7a\]](#page-6-0) Meanwhile, favorable interfacial interaction also weakens CO adsorption to enhance COtolerance ability of catalyst.[\[4a,b\]](#page-6-0) Despite some reported catalysts have good activity in rotating disk electrode (RDE), because of these bottlenecks above, some catalysts show low performance or lack enough experimental data in AEMFCs, which severely limit the practical applications of Ru-based catalysts for alkaline HOR.

Herein, we synthesized Ru-MnO/C heterostructure catalyst with distinctive confined interface toward fast and durable alkaline HOR electrocatalysis. The Ru-MnO/C catalyst reveals a

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. Structural characterizations of Ru-MnO/C. a) XRD patterns of Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C. b) HAADF-STEM images of Ru-MnO/C. The red circles highlight the representative Ru-MnO/C clusters. c) Enlarged HAADF-STEM images of Ru-MnO/C with fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns. d) Enlarged HAADF-STEM image of Ru-MnO/C in grayscale mode, color model: Temperature. f) Enlarged STEM-EDS elemental mapping images of Ru-MnO/C. The different colors depict the following: red, Ru; green, Mn. g) The line scanning EELS spectra of Ru-MnO/C cluster. h) EELS mapping images of Ru-MnO/C cluster.

mass activity of 0.78 A mg $_{\rm Ru}^{-1}$  at an overpotential of 50 mV, representing 2.9 times and 4.8 times over that of commercial PtC (PtC $_{\rm com}$ ) and RuC (RuC $_{\rm com}$ ) for alkaline HOR, respectively. The fabricated AEMFCs delivers a high PPD of 0.70 W cm $^{-2}$  in H $_2$ /O $_2$  and 0.58 W cm $^{-2}$  in H $_2$ /air (CO $_2$ -free) with the low loading of anode catalyst (0.1 mg $_{\rm Ru}$  cm $^{-2}$ ). Additionally, Ru-MnO/C catalyst demonstrates the high CO-tolerance that the anodic current loses only 17.3% in H $_2$ /1000 ppm CO. Furthermore, experimental and density functional theory (DFT) calculation results illustrate that Ru-MnO/C heterostructure interface optimizes the adsorption energy of intermediate on Ru sites, thereby achieving high HOR activity.

#### 2. Results

# 1.1. Material Synthesis and Characterization

Ru-MnO/C catalyst was synthesized by the impregnation and pyrolysis methods (Supporting Information).<sup>[8]</sup> As can be seen from the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (**Figure 1**a), the major diffraction peaks in Ru-MnO/C can be assigned to (200) facet

of MnO (PDF#07-0230) and only one weak diffraction peak at 44.0° corresponds to the (101) planes of metallic Ru (PDF#06-0663). <sup>[9]</sup> Under the same synthesis process, MnO is also formed with only Mn<sup>2+</sup> adding in precursor (Figure S1, Supporting Information), which is consistent with the reported literature. [10] Interestingly, no diffraction peaks of RuO2 species are observed in Ru/C and Ru-MnO/C by the pyrolysis under H2(10%)/Ar atmosphere. High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images show that most nanoclusters in Ru-MnO/C present with obvious clustercluster interfaces (Figure 1b-e), which link Ru (1.8  $\pm$  0.4 nm) and MnO clusters (1.4  $\pm$  0.3 nm) to form a heterostructure (Figure S2, Supporting Information). The lattice spacings of 0.20 and 0.22 nm in the HAADF-STEM image of Ru-MnO/C can be ascribed to the (101) and (200) planes of Ru and MnO (Figure 1c), respectively, which are consistent with the XRD patterns.[11] It has been reported that HAADF-STEM signal is proportional to the atomic number.<sup>[12]</sup> Due to the difference in atomic numbers (heavy and light atoms), Ru and Mn atoms have different brightness and contrast in HAADF-STEM images. The STEM image in grayscale mode (Figure 1e) displays the distinct

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 2. X-ray spectroscopy characterizations of the samples. a) Ru 3p XPS spectra of Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C. b) Ru K-edge XANES spectra of different samples. c) FT  $k^3$ -weighted  $\chi(k)$ -function of the EXAFS spectra for the Ru K-edge. d–f) WT for the  $k^3$ -weighted EXAFS of the Ru K-edge of different samples.

structure of Ru-MnO/C cluster. In Figure 1f, enlarged STEM-EDS elemental mapping image of Ru-MnO/C clearly reveal that the signals of Ru and Mn appear in two adjacent clusters, respectively. To further verify the structure, the line-scan electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) spectra were collected across the cluster–cluster interface (Figure 1g). The O and Mn signal intensity increases when crossing from the Ru cluster to the MnO cluster over the interface, indicating that the Ru cluster is bonded with the MnO cluster. Moreover, EELS mapping images (Figure 1h) also clearly show that the Mn and O signals are tightly surrounding the Ru cluster, rather than appearing inside the Ru cluster.

In order to reveal the electronic structure of Ru-MnO/C catalyst, the valence states of Ru for the samples of Ru-MnO/C comparing with Ru/C were probed via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Due to the signal overlapping of Ru 3d and C 1s at the binding energy of 285.0 eV, it is more reliable to collect Ru 3p spectra for detailed analysis.[3a] In Figure 2a for Ru-MnO/C, the peaks located at 483.5 and 461.3 eV can be indexed to the Ru  $3p_{1/2}$  and Ru  $3p_{3/2}$  for metallic Ru, and those at 486.1 and 464.2 eV can be assigned to Ru  $3p_{1/2}$  and Ru  $3p_{3/2}$  for Ru<sup>4+</sup>, respectively.[3a] Ru-MnO/C exhibits very similar Ru 3p spectra profiles with Ru/C, while the binding energy of Ru in Ru-MnO/C shifts to higher energy comparing with that in Ru/C. As shown in Figure S3 (Supporting Information), Mn species of Ru-MnO/C and MnO/C mainly exist in the form of oxidation state. Correspondingly, the binding energy of Mn 2p and O 1s in Ru-MnO/C shifts to lower energy comparing with those in MnO/C, respectively, resulting in electron-rich O sites. This shift clearly reveals the strong interfacial interactions with the electron transfer from Ru cluster to MnO cluster, resulting in electron-deficient Ru sites more likely to modify the adsorption energy of intermediates.<sup>[13]</sup> The X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) characterization was performed to gain deeper understanding of the electronic and coordination structure of Ru species.<sup>[14]</sup> Ru K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra show that the absorption edge of Ru-MnO/C is located between Ru foil and RuO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 2b). It is indicated that the valence of Ru-MnO/C is higher than that of Ru foil but lower than that of RuO<sub>2</sub>, which probably results from the bonding of O in MnO to Ru cluster with the electron transfer from Ru to MnO. This valence further confirms the interfacial interactions between Ru and MnO clusters, consistent with the XPS analysis. In Figure 2b, Ru-MnO/C exhibits similar but lower white line as compared with the Ru foil. In the heterostructure of Ru-MnO, the Ru atoms around the interface are bonded with O from MnO clusters, so Ru with part oxidation valence state exists here. The decrease of white line peak of Ru-MnO/C may be caused by changes in electron density and coordination environment of electron-deficient Ru species. [14] Ru K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) was obtained by Fourier transformation (FT) to investigate the local coordination environment around Ru effected by MnO (Figure 2c). The well-defined peak of Ru-MnO/C at 2.4 and 1.5 Å can be assigned to the Ru-Ru and Ru-O bonds, respectively.[3a] The Ru-Ru coordination of Ru-MnO/C is greatly weakened, but the Ru-O coordination is enhanced compared with that of Ru foil. In

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrochemical HOR performance. a) LSV curves of different catalysts at 1600 rpm. b) LSV curves of Ru-MnO/C at various rotation rates, and the inset shows the Koutecky–Levich plot at an overpotential of 50 mV. c) Linear fitting curves at micropolarization region of different catalysts. d) The HOR Tafel plots of kinetic current density (*j* k). e) The mass activity and specific activity of different catalysts at an overpotential of 50 mV. f) Polarization and power density curves of H2/O2 and H2/air (CO2-free) AEMFCs with Ru-MnO/C in anode and PtCcom in cathode.

addition, the Ru─O bond of Ru-MnO/C shifts to higher radius than that of RuO2. It suggests that electron transfer from Ru to MnO stretches bond length of Ru─O, further indicating the interfacial interactions between Ru and MnO clusters, which is consistent with the above EELS results and can induce the change in electrocatalytic activity.[\[2b\]](#page-6-0) The detailed coordination number and bond length along with other EXAFS fitting results are shown in Figure S4 and Table S2 (Supporting Information). Additionally, wavelet transform (WT) analysis was also conducted to obtain more intuitive bonding information (Figure [2d–f\)](#page-2-0), and the results disclose that the Ru-MnO/C shows combined features of Ru foil and RuO2, confirming the coexistence of Ru─Ru and Ru─O bonds, which further exhibits Ru clusters connected with MnO clusters through Ru─O─Mn bond to form the heterostructure interface.

#### **1.2. Electrocatalytic Performance for Alkaline HOR**

In order to evaluate the effect of interfacial interaction in the catalytic activity, the HOR electrocatalytic performances of Ru-MnO/C, Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom electrocatalysts were tested by Rotating Ring-Disk Electrode (DC DSR ROTATOR, PHY-CHEMI) in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte. First, the relationship between the Ru/Mn added molar ratio and HOR activity was investigated in Figures S5, S6 and Table S4 (Supporting Information), and the optimal Ru/Mn molar ratio was 1:2. According to Inductively coupled plasma-Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) results, the chemical compositions of the optimized Ru-MnO/C sample is 10.51 wt.% (Ru) and 10.31 wt.% (Mn). As shown in **Figure 3**a, the HOR polarization curve of Ru-MnO/C manifests a sharp current respond, very close to the Nernst limit.[\[2a,15\]](#page-6-0) By comparison, no anodic current of Ru-MnO/C and MnO/C is observed in N2-saturated and H2-saturated electrolyte, respectively, demonstrating that the rapidly-increasing anodic current of Ru-MnO/C comes from HOR on Ru sites (Figures S7 and S8, Supporting Information).[\[16\]](#page-6-0) Meanwhile, the anodic current density of Ru-MnO/C is higher than those of other catalysts from 0 to 0.1 V, indicating the superior HOR activity of the developed catalyst in comparison to Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom catalysts.[\[17\]](#page-6-0) However, it is worth noting that a slight decrease of current density can be observed at 0.1 V for Ru-MnO/C, Ru/C, and RuCcom. It is a typical phenomenon for Ru-based HOR electrocatalysts because the strong oxophilicity of Ru led to the occupation of active Ru sites for bonding with hydrogen by oxygen species.[\[3a,7a\]](#page-6-0) To quantitatively estimate their reaction rate and activity, polarization curves of different catalysts were tested at different rotating speed (Figure 3b and Figure S9, Supporting Information). When increasing the rotation speeds, the current density accordingly increases due to the improved mass transportation. A linear relationship between <sup>−</sup>1/2 and the inverse of current density at an overpotential of 50 mV is observed in the Koutecky–Levich plots. The slopes are calculated to be 4.48, 4.76, 4.80, and 4.28 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> s<sup>−</sup>1/2 for Ru-MnO/C, Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom, respectively, which are close to theoretical value of 4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> s<sup>−</sup>1/2, indicating that the two-electron reaction occurs.[\[18\]](#page-6-0) The exchange current density (*j* 0) for each catalyst is further determined by the linear fitting of micropolarization regions and Butler–Volmer equation (Figure 3c).[\[19\]](#page-6-0) Ru-MnO/C catalyst shows the highest *j* 0 value of 3.71 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> among that of other reference catalysts

**Figure 4.** HOR polarization curves of a) Ru-MnO/C, b) Ru/C c) PtCcom, and d) RuCcom in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH (solid lines) and in H2/1000 ppm CO-saturated 0.1 m KOH after immersing electrode in H2/1000 ppm CO-saturated electrolyte for 10 min (dash lines). Chronoamperometry tests e) in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH and f) in H2/1000 ppm-saturated 0.1 m KOH.

(Table S5, Supporting Information). The kinetic current density (*j* k) of each catalyst can be extracted from the Koutecky–Levich formula (Figure [3d\)](#page-3-0). After normalizing the mass of PGM on each catalyst based on ICP-MS (Table S3, Supporting Information), the mass activity (MA) of Ru-MnO/C at 50 mV reaches 0.78 A g<sup>−</sup>1, which is 2.7, 2.9 and 4.8 times higher than that of Ru/C (0.29 A g<sup>−</sup>1), PtCcom (0.27 A g<sup>−</sup>1) and RuCcom (0.16 A g<sup>−</sup>1), respectively. Moreover, in order to evaluate the intrinsic HOR activity of catalyst, the specific activity (SA) normalized with the electrochemical surface areas (ECSA) is measured by copper underpotential deposition (Cuupd) (Figure S10, Supporting Information).[\[20\]](#page-6-0) As shown in Figure [3e,](#page-3-0) the specific activity of Ru-MnO/C is 2.58 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is 1.1, 8.9, and 11.7 times higher than that of Ru/C (2.25 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), PtCcom (0.29 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and RuCcom (0.22 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), respectively. Therefore, Ru-MnO/C catalyst exhibits remarkable HOR activity and outperforms some of the reported Ru-based HOR catalysts (Table S5, Supporting Information).

In order to confirm the application of the prepared catalysts in AEMFCs, Ru-MnO/C was further employed as the anode catalyst (0.1 mgRu cm<sup>−</sup>2) and PtCcom as the cathode (0.4 mgPt cm<sup>−</sup>2) for conducting the AEMFCs performance.[\[2c,21\]](#page-6-0) It can be seen from Figure [3f](#page-3-0) that the peak power density for Ru-MnO/C is up to 0.70 and 0.58 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> under H2/O2 and H2/air (CO2-free) conditions, respectively, similar with those of PtCcom by 0.84 and 0.66 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and higher those of Ru/C by 0.25 and 0.20 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> under the same cathodic feeding gas, respectively (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Moreover, the specific PPDs of Ru-MnO/C normalized by the PGM mass are 7.0 W mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Ru and 5.8 W mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Ru under the above different conditions, respectively, which are very close to those of PtCcom as anode catalyst and much higher than those of Ru/C and other catalyst systems in reported AEMFCs (Table S6, Supporting Information). The results of cell performance exhibit that Ru-MnO/C catalyst has superior HOR activity in alkaline condition.

### **1.3. CO-Tolerance and Stability Evaluation**

CO tolerance of each catalyst is a key indicator for the practical use of cost-effective crude H2 in fuel cells.[\[4b\]](#page-6-0) **Figure 4**a–d shows the polarization curves of the catalysts recorded after immersing the electrode in H2/1000 ppm CO-saturated 0.1 m KOH for 10 min. Notably, the HOR activities of Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom significantly degenerate at 0.1 V, indicating the severe poisoning of active sites by CO species for these catalysts. In contrast, the current density for Ru-MnO/C at 0.1 V decreases only 6.3%, much lower than that of Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom, indicating stronger ability to resist CO poisoning for Ru-MnO/C catalyst. Moreover, the stability is another key parameter for catalysts in practical application.[\[22\]](#page-7-0) Chronoamperometry (CA) tests were employed to examine stability and CO tolerance of each catalyst for 1 h. As shown in Figure 4e, the anodic current of Ru-MnO/C catalyst loses 9.2% in H2-saturated electrolyte, which is close to that of PtCcom and lower than that of Ru/C and RuCcom. With 1000 ppm CO, the anodic current of Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom catalysts suffer from a rapid decline and loss over 40% after one hour (Figure 4f). As a comparison, the anodic current on Ru-MnO/C catalyst loses only 17.4% under the same condition, validating the greatly enhanced CO-tolerant capability after the composite structure of Ru and MnO clusters.

Additionally, we carried out a stability test of Ru-MnO/C on AEMFC to evaluate the application value of catalysts. As shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information), the cell voltage of AEMFC almost has no decrease at 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 16 h. These above results suggest that Ru-MnO/C exhibits eminent stability and CO-tolerance.

**Figure 5.** a) CV curve of Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C in N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH, showing the desorption of the H. b) CO stripping voltammetry and background curves in N2-saturated electrolyte (grey dash lines) of Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C, respectively. c) The differential charge density distributions between Ru cluster and MnO cluster. Yellow and olive represent increased and decreased charge distributions, respectively. d) The PDOS of Ru sites on Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C with the values of d-band center, respectively. e) H adsorption energy and OH adsorption energy on Ru sites of Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C. f) Gibbs free energy of reaction pathways for alkaline HOR on Ru sites of Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C, respectively.

## **1.4. Mechanism Investigation**

To understand the origins of enhanced HOR kinetics by the Ru-MnO/C heterostructure, the critical H and OH adsorption strength behaviors were explored by experiment.[\[23\]](#page-7-0) In **Figure 5**a, hydrogen underpotential deposition (Hupd) test shows that the hydrogen desorption peak position for Ru-MnO/C (55 mV) is lower than that of Ru/C (71 mV), revealing that the Ru-H adsorption energy is weakened in Ru-MnO/C.[\[24\]](#page-7-0) It indicates that MnO can regulate the electronic structure of Ru cluster to weaken the H adsorption strength, then improve the HOR kinetic on Ru in alkaline solution. Moreover, CO stripping is employed to monitor the adsorption behavior of OHad because the OHad facilitates the removal of adsorbed CO.[\[25\]](#page-7-0) As shown in Figure 5b, the CO oxidation peak of Ru-MnO/C (0.77 V) is more positive than that of Ru/C (0.74 V), confirming that the composited clusters of Ru-MnO permitted a weaker OHBE on Ru sites rather than Ru/C.[\[26\]](#page-7-0) The above experimental results prove that the Ru-MnO/C heterostructure regulates the adsorption energy of H and OH to obtain optimized HBE and OHBE, which substantially promoted the key step for the HOR enhancements.

To further illustrate the mechanism, DFT calculations were performed on the cluster–cluster heterostructure model that was built on the basis of the experimental characterizations. The projected density of states (PDOS) calculation reveals a strong orbital overlap among Ru 4d, Mn 2p, and O 2p orbitals for Ru-MnO/C, confirming the strongly coupled interaction between Ru and MnO clusters (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The differential charge density mapping of Ru-MnO/C verifies the electron transfer from Ru to O via Ru─O─Mn bond as well as the electron transfer from Mn to O, consistent with the XPS and XANES analysis (Figure 5c). These results illustrate that the reinforced interfacial interaction could produce electron-deficient Ru sites by redistribution of electrons, which is expected to modify the d-band structure and adsorption properties.[\[4b\]](#page-6-0) As shown in Figure 5d, the d-band center on Ru site of Ru-MnO/C negatively shifts comparing with that of Ru/C, predicting that the weaker H binding strength on Ru site according to d-band theory in Ru-MnO/C with strong interfacial chemical interaction.[\[27\]](#page-7-0)

The adsorption behaviors of H and OH on Ru sites are presented in Figure 5e, Figures S14 and S15 (Supporting Information). The H adsorption energy (Ead-H\*) of Ru-MnO/C (−0.24 eV) is higher than that of Ru/C (−0.78 eV) consistent with the experimental analysis. Ead-H\* of Ru-MnO/C is also close to the optimal value of binding Gibbs energy (ΔGH, 0 eV) on Pt by Sabatier principle after simple estimating entropy and zero-point energy.[\[28\]](#page-7-0) Moreover, compared with isolated the Ru cluster, the interfacial interaction can significantly decrease OH adsorption on Ru sites to achieve a balance between Had and OHad, then the optimized hydrogen adsorption and hydroxyl adsorption on Ru sites can tremendously facilitate the electrocatalysis kinetics for HOR. In order to investigate the HOR activity for the two catalysts, the Gibbs free energy profiles for the whole reaction pathway from H2 to H2O in alkaline are shown in Figure 5f, according to the most common Tafel-Volmer mechanism.[\[29\]](#page-7-0) The ratedetermining steps (RDS) on Ru-MnO/C and Ru/C are the H2O

<span id="page-6-0"></span>desorption with the reaction free energy of 0.13 and 0.64 eV, respectively, indicating higher activity on Ru-MnO/C than isolated Ru cluster for the alkaline HOR. These results above indicate that MnO clusters modify the electronic structure of Ru sites in Ru-MnO/C catalyst and thus such interfacial interaction of heterostructure can modify the H and OH adsorption strength coincidentally enhancing the HOR activity.

# **2. Conclusion**

In summary, we design and synthesize a kind of Ru-MnO/C heterostructure catalyst with distinctive confined interface toward fast and durable alkaline HOR electrocatalysis. An integrated experimental and DFT calculations study illustrate that the interface modulation by the Ru-MnO/C heterostructure optimizes H and OH adsorption energy, which achieves great enhancement in HOR activity with higher exchange current density and mass activity comparing with isolated Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom catalysts. Meanwhile, the AEMFC employed by this catalyst delivers a specific PPD of 7.0 W mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Ru under H2/O2 condition, which is higher than most other reported catalysts. Notably, the Ru-MnO/C catalyst could maintain eminent stability with 1000 ppm CO, indicating stronger CO-tolerant capability by contrast with Ru/C, PtCcom, and RuCcom. Our work elucidates the correlation between cluster-cluster interface and HOR performance, and would further enlighten the design of advanced catalysts for potential heterogeneous HOR catalysis in industrial application.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

S.Z. and R.R. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported from the Key Research and Development Program sponsored by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) (No. 2022YFB4002000), and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 22372155, 22102172, 22072145, 21925205). We thank Shenzhen HUASUAN Technology Co., Ltd. for performing the XAS test. Thanks to eceshi [\(www.eceshi.com\)](http://www.eceshi.com) for the XPS test.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

AEMFCs, alkaline HOR, CO-tolerance, heterostructure

Received: September 17, 2024 Revised: October 20, 2024 Published online: November 9, 2024

- [1] a) X. Zhang, X. Xiao, J. Chen, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, M. Gao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4511; b) R. Zhao, X. Yue, Q. Li, G. Fu, J. M. Lee, S. Huang, *Small.* **2021**, *17*, 202100391; c) Y. Qiu, X. Xie, W. Li, Y. Shao, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, 2094.
- [2] a) Y. Xue, L. Shi, X. Liu, J. Fang, X. Wang, B. P. Setzler, W. Zhu, Y. Yan, Z. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5651; b) B. Zhang, J. Wang, G. Liu, C. M. Weiss, D. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Xia, P. Zhou, M. Gao, Y. Liu, J. Chen, Y. Yan, M. Shao, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2024**, *7*, 441; c) H. A. Miller, A. Lavacchi, F. Vizza, M. Marelli, F. Di Benedetto, F. D'Acapito, Y. Paska, M. Page, D. R. Dekel, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6004.
- [3] a) X. Zhang, L. Xia, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208821; b) F. Y. Gao, S. N. Liu, J. C. Ge, X. L. Zhang, L. Zhu, Y. R. Zheng, Y. Duan, S. Qin, W. Dong, X. Yu, R. C. Bao, P. P. Yang, Z. Z. Niu, Z. G. Ding, W. Liu, S. Lan, M. R. Gao, Y. Yan, S. H. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 993; c) W. Ni, J. L. Meibom, N. U. Hassan, M. Chang, Y.-C. Chu, A. Krammer, S. Sun, Y. Zheng, L. Bai, W. Ma, S. Lee, S. Jin, J. S. Luterbacher, A. Schüler, H. M. Chen, W. E. Mustain, X. Hu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 773.
- [4] a) Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454; b) Z. Yang, W. Lai, B. He, J. Wang, F. Yu, Q. Liu, M. Liu, S. Zhang, W. Ding, Z. Lin, H. Huang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300881; c) X. Wang, Y. Tong, W. Feng, P. Liu, X. Li, Y. Cui, T. Cai, L. Zhao, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 3767.
- [5] B. Zhang, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, J. Wang, D. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Xia, M. Gao, Y. Liu, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5894.
- [6] C. Lin, J.-L. Li, X. Li, S. Yang, W. Luo, Y. Zhang, S.-H. Kim, D.-H. Kim, S. S. Shinde, Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, Z. Jiang, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 1012.
- [7] a) H. Shi, Y. Yang, P. Meng, J. Yang, W. Zheng, P. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, Z. Cheng, C. Zong, D. Wang, Q. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 16619; b) L. Jing, G. Jie, W. Yu, H. Ren, X. Cui, X. Chen, L. Jiang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *472*, 145009.
- [8] B. A. T. Mehrabadi, S. Eskandari, U. Khan, R. D. White, J. R. Regalbuto, in *Advances in Catalysis*, (Ed.: C. Song), *61*, Academic Press, United States, **2017**, pp. 1–35.
- [9] a) N. G. García-Peña, R. Redón, A. Herrera-Gomez, A. L. Fernández-Osorio, M. Bravo-Sanchez, G. Gomez-Sosa, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2015**, *340*, 25; b) Y. Liu, Y. Ma, W. Yang, S. Bao, H. Chen, M. Xu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *473*, 145490.
- [10] L. Haifeng, S. Sheng, L. Lijun, X. Kai, H. Song, W. Yi, X. Jun, in *Clean Coal and Sustainable Energy*, (Eds.: J. Lyu, S. Li), Springer, Singapore **2022**, pp. 963–973.
- [11] a) R. Jiang, D. T. Tran, J. Li, D. Chu, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 201; b) W.-G. Cui, X.-Y. Zhuang, Y.-T. Li, H. Zhang, J.-J. Dai, L. Zhou, Z. Hu, T.-L. Hu, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2021**, *287*, 119959.
- [12] S. Yamashita, J. Kikkawa, K. Yanagisawa, T. Nagai, K. Ishizuka, K. Kimoto, *Sci. Rep.* **2018**, *8*, 12325.
- [13] Y. Zhou, Y. Liu, H. Tang, B.-L. Lin, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2023**, *11*, 10720.
- [14] W. Liu, H. Feng, Y. Yang, Y. Niu, L. Wang, P. Yin, S. Hong, B. Zhang, X. Zhang, M. Wei, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3188.
- [15] W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, M. Gao, J. Zheng, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 5848.
- [16] J. Mao, C.-T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [17] L. Han, P. Ou, W. Liu, X. Wang, H. T. Wang, R. Zhang, C. W. Pao, X. Liu, W. F. Pong, J. Song, Z. Zhuang, M. V. Mirkin, J. Luo, H. L. Xin, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabm3779.
- [18] F.-Y. Gao, Y.-H. Wang, Y. Yang, J. Liao, J.-W. DuanMu, X.-L. Zhang, Z.-Z. Niu, P.-P. Yang, M.-R. Gao, *Nano Res.* **2023**, *16*, 10787.
- [19] J. Ohyama, T. Sato, Y. Yamamoto, S. Arai, A. Satsuma, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 8016.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

- [20] R.-Y. Shao, L.-W. Chen, Q.-Q. Yan, W.-J. Zeng, P. Yin, H.-W. Liang, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 4284.
- [21] a) M. Bellini, M. V. Pagliaro, A. Lenarda, P. Fornasiero, M. Marelli, C. Evangelisti, M. Innocenti, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, J. Jankovic, L. Wang, J. R. Varcoe, C. B. Krishnamurthy, I. Grinberg, E. Davydova, D. R. Dekel, H. A. Miller, F. Vizza, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 4999; b) S. Gottesfeld, D. R. Dekel, M. Page, C. Bae, Y. Yan, P. Zelenay, Y. S. Kim, *J. Power Sources.* **2018**, *375*, 170.
- [22] Y. Cong, H. Wang, M. Liu, J. Tian, *Appl. Catal., A Gen.* **2024**, *676*, 119684.
- [23] a) Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177; b) J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z. F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.
- [24] J. Zhang, X. Qu, L. Shen, G. Li, T. Zhang, J. Zheng, L. Ji, W. Yan, Y. Han, X. Cheng, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *SmallSmall.* **2021**, *17*, 2006698.
- [25] L. Su, Y. Jin, D. Gong, X. Ge, W. Zhang, X. Fan, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *62*, 202215585.
- [26] L. Su, X. Fan, Y. Jin, H. Cong, W. Luo, *SmallSmall.* **2023**, *19*, 202207603.
- [27] W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Héroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schüler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804.
- [28] X. Wang, L. Zhao, X. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, Q. Yao, J. Xie, Q. Xue, Z. Yan, X. Yuan, W. Xing, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1596.
- [29] Z.-C. Yao, T. Tang, Z. Jiang, L. Wang, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *ACS Nano.* **2022**, *16*, 5153.