---
source: Zhang 等 - 2021 - Engineering the Near‐Surface of PtRu3 Nanoparticles to Improve Hydrogen Oxidation Activit.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 87.235s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:43:15.256229Z
---

# **Engineering the Near-Surface of PtRu3 Nanoparticles to Improve Hydrogen Oxidation Activity in Alkaline Electrolyte**

*Junming Zhang, Ximing Qu, Linfan Shen, Guang Li, Tianen Zhang, Jinhong Zheng, Lifei Ji, Wei Yan, Yu Han, Xiaoyang Cheng, Yanxia Jiang,\* and Shigang Sun\**

**Tailoring the near-surface composition of Pt-based alloy can optimize the surface chemical properties of a nanocatalyst and further improve the sluggish H2 electrooxidation performance in an alkaline electrolyte. However, the construction of alloy nanomaterials with a precise near-surface composition and smaller particle size still needs to overcome huge obstacles. Herein, ultrasmall PtRu3 binary nanoparticles (<2 nm) evenly distributed on porous carbon (PtRu3/PC), with different near-surface atomic compositions (Pt-increased and Ru-increased), are successfully synthesized. XPS characterizations and electrochemical test confirm the transformation of a near-surface atomic composition after annealing PtRu3/PC-300 alloy; when annealing in CO atmosphere, forming the Pt-increased near-surface structure (500 °C), while the Ru-increased near-surface structure appears in an Ar heat treatment process (700 °C). Furthermore, three PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts all weaken the hydrogen binding strength relative to the Pt/PC. Remarkably, the Ru-increased nanocatalyst exhibits up to 38.8-fold and 9.2-fold HOR improvement in mass activity and exchange current density, compared with the Pt/PC counterpart, respectively. CO-stripping voltammetry tests demonstrate the anti-CO poisoning ability of nanocatalysts, in the sequence of Ru-increased ≥ PtRu3/PC-300 > Pt-increased > Pt/PC. From the perspective of engineering a near-surface structure, this study may open up a new route for the development of highefficiency electrocatalysts with a strong electronic effect and oxophilic effect.**

**1. Introduction**

Under an alkaline environment, anion-exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) with high energy conversion efficiency can enable non-noble metals and Pt-based alloy nanocatalysts to play

Dr. J. Zhang, X. Qu, L. Shen, G. Li, T. Zhang, J. Zheng, L. Ji, W. Yan, Y. Han, X. Cheng, Prof. Y. Jiang, Prof. S. Sun State Key Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces Department of Chemistry College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Xiamen University Xiamen 361005, P. R. China E-mail: yxjiang@xmu.edu.cn; sgsun@xmu.edu.cn Dr. J. Zhang School of Chemical and Material Science Shanxi Normal University Linfen 041004, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202006698.

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202006698**

a long-term catalytic operation, thereby greatly reducing the cost of fuel cell systems.[1] In particular, with the significant development of noble-metal-free catalysts towards cathodic oxygen reduction reaction, MNCs samples have shown an activity comparable to the most advanced Pt/C nanocatalysts in AEMFCs.[2] For the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR), the electrocatalytic activity of Pt can still outperform other pure metals.[3] However, the HOR kinetics of Pt nanocatalysts in alkaline media is much sluggish, and their electrocatalytic activity is reduced by at least two orders of magnitude relative to acidic media.[4] Therefore, AEMFCs require a higher loading of precious metals to achieve the same power density as proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). From the structurefunction relationship perspective, electrocatalysts with a special surface structure or electronic effect etc., will significantly influence the adsorption strength of intermediates and trace impurities (e.g., H, OH, and CO), thus altering their HOR performance. For example, Markovića et al. studied the HOR on low-index Pt

faces in an alkaline medium, finding the correlation between activity and crystal faces: ≈(111)–(100) << (110).[5] Zhuang et al. confirmed that the PtRu/C nanocatalyst does have more active HOR activity in alkaline media than the Pt/C, and the activation energy obtained from the Arrhenius formula is 14.6 and 35.2 kJ mol−<sup>1</sup> on PtRu/C and Pt/C, respectively.[6] Li et al. reported that the HOR activity of as-synthesized PdCu/C intermetallic compound was four times higher than that of the Pd/C nanocatalyst.[7] Besides the electronic effect and ordered structure, the reason for the enhanced HOR activity relative to pure Pd is that the PdCu surface has similar H and OH binding strength to the pure Pt surface. Therefore, motivated by elucidating the reason for inferior HOR activity of Pt catalysts in base and developing alternative active catalysts, extensive research efforts are devoted to the Pt-based HOR nanocatalysts.

Determining the reaction descriptors and reaction mechanisms is critical to a rational HOR nanocatalyst's design. The correlation between HOR exchange current densities on a series of monometallic surfaces (Pt, Pd, Ag, Au, Fe, Ni, etc.) and calculated hydrogen binding energy (HBE) values can be

Takeguchi et al. optimized the PtRu nanocatalysts using a rapid quenching method and realized thoroughly mixed Pt and Ru atoms.[18] A membrane electrode assembly using this sample as anode catalyst exhibited higher performance than that with conventional PtRu nanocatalysts under a high concentration of CO. On basis of these insights, near-surface engineering of Pt-based alloys can modify and optimize the adsorption energy of intermediate species, so they show higher HOR activity and better anti-CO poisoning ability over pure Pt in an alkaline electrolyte.

In this paper, our goal is to enhance HOR activity and CO tolerance by regulating the near-surface atomic compositions of the low-platinum (≈7.8 wt%) PtRu3/PC alloy. The HOR activity exhibits a strong dependence on the near-surface atomic composition of the PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts, which was investigated through XPS and electrochemical tests. In particular, the nanocatalyst with Ru-increased near-surface structure exhibits exceptionally high mass activity and exchange current density, outperforming other as-synthesized Pt and PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts. Moreover, the Tafel slope and electron transfer coefficients of the Ru-increased nanocatalyst in 0.1 m KOH electrolyte is 38 mV dec–1 and 0.81, respectively, indicating this nanostructure is more conducive towards the alkaline HOR. Through a CO stripping experiment and chronoamperometry test, it is shown that the strong electronic effect and oxophilic effect for PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts are of great significance to inhibit CO poisoning. The fine near-surface nanostructure regulation is beneficial to improve electrocatalytic performance and has potential applications in clean AEMFCs.

established by a volcano plot in alkaline media, similar to the case in acidic media.[8] Moreover, Yan's group studied the pHdependent HOR activity of polycrystalline platinum and Pt/C catalysts in the electrolytes with a wide pH range from 0 to 13.[9] The HOR activity of Pt catalysts decreases with pH, while experimentally measured HBE linearly increases with pH. This relationship indicates that HBE can be used as the descriptor for HOR, and the HOR activity can be adjusted by changing the surface chemical properties of nanocatalysts. As noted in previous studies, neither too strong nor too weak HBE will promote the HOR, because strong or weak binding strength will lead to either difficulty in removing the final product or poor adsorption of the reactants.[10] Subsequently, a bifunctional mechanism was also proposed. Researchers believe that the surface of nanocatalyst is more sensitive to HOR in a base than acid, whose reaction rate is only controlled by HBE, while the former also involves the participation of adsorbed-OH species.[11] This mechanism was verified by Pt0.1Ru0.9 nanocatalysts, which exhibited outperformed Pt HOR activity, as well as an optimal binding strength of Had and OHad species.[12] For the Pt0.1Ru0.9 nanocatalyst, more Ru sites facilitate the adsorption of OH species at a lower potential, then remove the H intermediates adsorbed on nearby Pt surface sites. Moreover, Koper et al. used Pt (553) surrounded by (110) step sites as a model catalyst to demonstrate the co-adsorption of cations and hydroxyl, indicating the "hydrogen region" is actually a "hydrogenhydroxyl-cation" region.[13] As the concentration of alkali metal cations (Li+, Na+, K+, Cs+) increases, the "hydrogen peak" shifts to a higher positive potential than in HClO4. They suggested that the pH value has a greater impact on the stability of the OHad, so the adsorbed hydroxyl may participate in the HOR mechanism. In short, the above experimental results triggered a debate on the rational design of basic HOR nanocatalysts, whether HBE is sufficient to predict activity, or hydroxyl can act as the second reaction descriptor.

#### Regardless of whether the potential role of hydroxyl in an alkaline media is reasonable, HBE is an indispensable factor in estimating HOR activity. Based on the above analysis, the researchers suggest that combining Pt with an oxophilic metal (such as Ru, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, etc.) will enhance the HOR activity in the base.[14] PtRu alloys are one of the best catalysts for HOR and anti-CO poisoning, thus great efforts have been devoted to adjusting the structure-function relationship of PtRu to improve the reaction rate and catalytic efficiency. For instance, Zhuang et al. showed that the power density using PtRu/C as the anode catalyst of AEMFCs was 1.7 times than that of Pt/C catalyst; This indicated that the incorporation of Ru atoms modified the electronic structure of Pt atoms and weakened the Pt-Had interaction, thus it is beneficial to improve the HOR kinetics in an alkaline medium.[15] Papandrew et al. varied the electronic effect of a bimetallic PtRu electrocatalyst by tuning the thickness of Pt overlayers on metallic Ru nanotubes, and found the specific activity and mass activity of Ru0.90Pt0.10 nanotubes for HOR was 2.5 and 11.4 times greater than that of pure Pt nanotubes, respectively.[16] Jia et al. prepared Ru-doped Pt/C catalysts by electrochemical deposition of Ru on the surface of Pt/C, which was used to explore the HOR mechanism, and discovered that the Ru-doped Pt/C catalysts significantly accelerated the HOR rate in a base with the increase of Ru-doping.[17]

## **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Structural Analysis of PtRu3/PC Nanocatalysts**

PtRu3/PC-300 nanocatalyst was prepared following a facile and surfactant-free gas reduction method with the molar ratio of 1:3 for H2PtCl6 and RuCl3 precursors. Since the reduction potential of H2PtCl6 (≈0.72 V) is higher than that of RuCl3 (≈0.39 V), Pt nuclei are formed in preference to Ru in an H2 atmosphere. Then, the Pt nuclei facilitate the reduction of the Ru3+ through an autocatalytic process; at high temperatures, atoms diffuse into each other, and Ru atoms enter the Pt lattice to form small PtRu3 alloy nanoparticles. Furthermore, PC was introduced during the co-impregnation process. As mentioned in our previous work, PC support has some advantages over other common commercial nano-carbon-materials, such as a high degree of graphitization (carbonization temperature ≈1200 °C), high BET (1066 cm2 g−<sup>1</sup> ), small pore size (3 nm), and porous structure.[19] Thus, it can mitigate the agglomeration of nanoparticles under a high temperature, and facilitate the transfer of electrons and mass during an electrocatalytic process. Controlling the annealing temperature and atmosphere is conducive to the occurrence of surface segregation and the formation of various near-surface atomic compositions. Here, the temperatureinduced and adsorption-induced surface segregation methods are used to engineer the near-surface atomic compositions of PtRu3/PC samples, that is, the alloyed PtRu3/PC-300 samples were separately treated at 500 °C under a CO atmosphere or at 700 °C under an Ar atmosphere to form a Pt-increased or Ruincreased nanostructure (**Scheme 1**).

**Scheme 1.** Preparing PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts and tuning their near-surface atomic compositions via the CTTM.

Representative TEM images (**Figure 1**A–C) reveal that the as-prepared PtRu3/PC nanoparticles are highly evenly dispersed on the surface of PC support. The average size of PtRu3/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased nanoparticles is 1.4, 1.8, and 1.5 nm (Figure 1D–F), respectively. Due to the confinement effect of the PC support, even if the heat treatment is

**Figure 1.** TEM images and the corresponding size distribution histograms of A,D) PtRu3/PC-300, B,E) Pt-increased, and C,F) Ru-increased samples. The inset panel is the corresponding HRTEM image.

performed at a temperature as high as 700 °C, the nanoparticles still have a smaller particle size and no agglomeration. Recently, in order to prevent the agglomeration of precious metal alloy nanocatalysts during annealing, researchers proposed several strategies, including oxide coating (e.g., MgO, SiO2, or Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>),<sup>[20]</sup> polymer coating (such as polydopamine),<sup>[21]</sup> and KCl matrices, [22] etc. Compared with the use of PC support, these methods are more cumbersome, and the interaction between as-synthesized alloy nanoparticles and the support is weaker. Moreover, an as-prepared Pt/PC sample (Figure S1, Supporting Information) also has a smaller particle size (2.2 nm), and the d-spacing (2.3 Å) is ascribed to the {111} plane. The highly magnified images (HRTEM) shown in the illustration of Figure 1A-C clearly demonstrate the lattice fringe of three PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC samples, and the crystalline interplanar distance of the three catalysts is 2.2 Å. Intuitively, these d-spacing values of the three PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC alloys reduce slightly, when compared to Pt/PC, indicating the formation of PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC alloys, likely ascribable to the smaller size of Ru atoms. These small variations in the d-spacing values nevertheless validate the presence of a lattice strain effect of these catalysts, which can affect the surface electronic properties of nanocatalysts.<sup>[23]</sup> Highly dispersive PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC alloy nanocatalysts can provide a larger surface area and a higher atom utility, which is very important for electrocatalytic reactions.

The crystal structures of Pt/PC and three PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC samples have been examined by XRD, as shown in **Figure 2**. The five dominant diffraction peaks at  $2\theta = 39.7^{\circ}$ ,  $46.2^{\circ}$ ,  $67.5^{\circ}$ ,  $81.2^{\circ}$ , and  $85.7^{\circ}$  correspond to the face-centered cubic (fcc) structured Pt (111), (200), (220), (311), and (222) planes in curve a, respectively. After the addition of an Ru element (curves b and c), PC-supported PtRu<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles only show the diffraction peak of Pt (111), while the other peaks are too broad and too small to be seen. It should be noted that Pt (111) peaks of PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 and Pt-increased samples have shifted significantly to higher  $2\theta$  values than that of the Pt/PC nanocatalyst, indicating the formation of alloyed PtRu<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles, consistent with

**Figure 2.** Powder XRD patterns of a) Pt/PC, b) PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300, c) Pt-increased, and d) Ru-increased samples.

www.small-journal.com

HRTEM results. Moreover, the absence of monometallic Pt and Ru diffraction peaks implies that the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC nanoparticles are well-alloyed crystalline structures. Ru atoms with a smaller atomic radius enter the Pt atomic lattice, which causes lattice contraction and the decrease in Pt-Pt distance, thereby affecting the adsorption and/or desorption of reactants and enhancing electrocatalytic performance. The crystal structure information of the Ru-increased sample (curve d) is a totally different diffraction pattern from the common fcc structured Pt-based alloy. The seven dominant peaks at  $2\theta = 38.2^{\circ}$ ,  $41.5^{\circ}$ ,  $43.7^{\circ}$ ,  $57.9^{\circ}$ ,  $69.0^{\circ}$ ,  $77.8^{\circ}$ , and  $83.9^{\circ}$  correspond to the (100), (002), (101), (102), (110), (103), and (112) planes of the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) structured Ru, respectively. For Ru-based alloys with a high Ru content, the XRD peaks generally exhibit the same hcp structure as Ru/C, such as Ru<sub>0.7</sub>Co<sub>0.3</sub>/C,<sup>[24]</sup> Ru<sub>0.5</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>,<sup>[25]</sup> and AuRu<sub>3</sub>.<sup>[26]</sup> Pt-based alloy catalysts with hcp phase have also been synthesized and studied in literature. For instance, Xie et al. successfully synthesized the hcp Pt<sub>12</sub>Ni<sub>88</sub> nano-multipods alloy and made a detailed analysis towards the hcp structure, despite the PtNi alloys are usually crystallized in the fcc structure.<sup>[27]</sup> Fcc-ZrPt<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles were also transformed to a hcp-ZrPt<sub>3</sub> nanocatalyst by heat treatment at ≈900–1000 °C.[28] In addition, the EDX results confirm the coexistence of Pt and Ru atoms in the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC nanocatalysts, and the Pt/Ru atomic ratios of the three samples are almost close to 1/3 (Figure S2, Supporting Information), which is consistent with the ICP-OES measurement and the corresponding value in the precursor solutions.

Near-surface atomic compositions and electronic structures of PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC nanocatalysts are revealed on the basis of XPS technology and electrochemical tests. As can be seen from the XPS wide survey spectra of three PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC nanocatalysts (Figure S3, Supporting Information), the coexistence of Pt and Ru signals is in agreement with the EDX, also indicating that the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/ PC nanocatalysts are successfully prepared. Figure 3A,C,E shows the Pt 4f high-resolution spectra of three PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC samples, which could be divided into two pairs of doublets. For each sample, the lower binding energy peak corresponds to the Pt  $4f_{7/2}$  orbit, and the other is the Pt  $4f_{5/2}$  orbit. Previous studies have shown that the Pt 4f<sub>7/2</sub> peak of a pure Pt sample is generally around 71.0 eV.[19d] Furthermore, the Pt 4f<sub>7/2</sub> peak position of PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300, Pt-increased and Ru-increased samples is located at 71.8, 71.4, and 71.9 eV, respectively. As expected, the binding energy of the three alloys produces a positive shift relative to the Pt itself, which indicates the downward shift of the Pt d-band center, and the decrease of an electron back-donation from the Pt 5d orbital to the 2p\* orbital of CO, thus weakening the CO-Pt bonding and the adsorption of the H species. [23,29] Moreover, the near-surface atomic distribution will have a great impact on electronic structure, and the magnitude of the electronic effect is Pt-increased < PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 < Ru-increased. According to the measured relative peak areas, the percentage of near-surface metallic Pt for PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased samples is 64.7%, 66.8%, and 61.4%, respectively, in which metallic Pt is the most significant active site to the H-H cleavage. Based on these data, it can be reasonably asserted that the three alloyed nanocatalysts should exhibit better HOR kinetics than Pt alone, because they impair the adsorption of H and promote the H-H cleavage. For Ru 3p high-resolution spectra, the lower and higher binding energy peak corresponds

**Figure 3.** XPS spectra associated with the Pt 4f region for the three binary nanocatalysts: A) PtRu3/PC-300, C) Pt-increased, and E) Ru-increased; B) Ru 2p XPS spectra for PtRu3/PC-300, D) Pt-increased, and F) Ru-increased samples.

to the Ru 3p3/2 and 3p1/2 orbits, respectively. Two pairs of deconvoluted Ru peaks are assigned to the metallic Ru and RuO2 species. From the Ru 3p spectrums (Figure 3B,D,F) of three PtRu3/ PC nanocatalysts, the position of the Ru 3p3/2 peaks of PtRu3/ PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased samples is located at 462.2, 462.3, and 462.1 eV, respectively, which all produce a negative shift than that of Ru/PC (462.7 eV).[19d] The XPS analysis further confirms the presence of a strong electronic transfer interaction between Pt atoms and alloyed Ru atoms, of which Ru could modify the electronic structure of Pt. By calculating, we also could obtain the percentage of a near-surface metallic Ru for PtRu3/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased samples is about 48.5%, 51.5%, and 54.3%, respectively, suggesting the Ru element on the catalytic surface be affected by a slight surface oxidation upon exposure to air.[30] Moreover, based on the integrated area and sensitivity factors of Ru 3p and Pt 4f,[31] we can determine that the near-surface atomic ratio of Pt:Ru is equal to 1:2.8, 1:1.9, and 1:3.3 for PtRu3/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased samples, respectively. The near-surface atomic ratio of PtRu3/PC-300 nanocatalyst is near to that obtained from ICP-OES and EDS data. Compared with PtRu3/ PC-300 sample, Pt atoms of the Pt-increased sample move to the near-surface under a CO annealing atmosphere, while Ru atoms of Ru-increased sample shift to the near-surface under an Ar annealing atmosphere. By alloying Pt with Ru, a possible electronic effect could cause the downward shift of the Pt d-band center, which is consistent with the above XRD results; smaller size Ru atoms compress the lattice of the Pt. Therefore, because of the stronger charge transfer interactions between Pt and Ru atoms, the surface adsorption ability of small adsorbates (such as COad, Had, etc.) for PtRu3/PC would be weakened and the electrocatalytic performance for HOR will be improved.

In order to further confirm the near-surface atomic compositions of three PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts by electrochemical means, we also prepared an Ru/PC nanocatalyst using a similar gas-phase reduction method. Figure S4A,B, Supporting Information, shows the Ru nanoparticles with a very small particle size evenly disperse on the PC support, and possess a typical hcp crystal phase structure. Since the redox signals of Ru species are weak in an alkaline medium, the CV curves of these samples in an acid electrolyte were used to further analyze the surface atomic compositions, and the collected curves are the CV of a second circle. From the CV curve of the Ru/PC nanocatalyst, the obvious redox peaks of the corresponding Ru species can be seen. The three oxidation peaks in Figure S4C, Supporting Information, belong to three oxidation reactions: from a metallic state to divalent species, divalent species to a trivalent oxide, and trivalent species to a higher valence oxide. As can be seen from Figure S4D, Supporting Information, three PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts all show the obvious characteristic peaks of Ru species. The oxidation peaks of the Ptincreased sample are obviously weakened, indicating that the Pt atoms have undergone surface segregation. Nevertheless, the enhanced oxidation peak signals of the Ru-increased sample implies that the Ru content of the near-surface increases, which is consistent with XPS results.

### **2.2. Evaluating HOR Activities of PtRu3/PC Nanocatalysts**

In **Figure 4**A, the CV curves of four nanocatalysts in 0.1 m KOH electrolyte are compared, and all currents are normalized to the geometric surface area of the RDE electrode. The region before the electrochemical double-layer is the hydrogen region (<0.4 V versus RHE). After alloying Pt and Ru, the hydrogen region and the Pt-OHad formation region (ca. 0.8 V) of PtRu3/ PC nanocatalysts reduce relative to the Pt/PC, revealing that the Pt atoms on the surface of nanocatalyst have been partially replaced by Ru atoms. The hydrogen adsorption/desorption peak potential (*E*peak) can reflect the Pt-Had interaction (−*FE*peak = Δ*H*), which Pt-Had becomes weaker and weaker with the negative shift of *E*peak. [4c,9a,32] The hydrogen desorption peak potential of three PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts are more negative than that of the Pt/PC nanocatalyst, which is consistent with the fact that the PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts obtained by an XPS can weaken the bonding strength of a Had. RDE is employed to evaluate the HOR performance in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte at 30 °C and ambient pressure. HOR in an acidic medium is fast enough, so the reaction is completely under the control of H2 mass transport and kinetic data cannot be obtained by RDE test; However, the RDE method can well describe both of the HOR kinetic overpotential and H2 diffusion overpotential in an alkaline electrolyte due to the decreased reaction rate. Figure 4B demonstrates the polarization curves of the HER/HOR on Pt/PC and the as-synthesized three PtRu3/ PC nanocatalysts. The current density of three PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts increased with the potential faster than the Pt/PC, which indicates that the HOR activity of PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts is much higher. The HOR activity measured at 50 mV is 1.34, 2.34, 1.90, and 2.78 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> disk for Pt/PC, PtRu3/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased nanocatalysts, respectively. In addition, the HOR activity and half-wave potential (51 mV) of

**Figure 4.** A) CV curves of four nanocatalysts in N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ; B) Steady state positive-going sweeps polarization curves of PtRu3/PC-300, Pt-increased, Ru-increased, and Pt/PC nanocatalysts; C) The correlation between HOR activity at 0.05 V and *H*upd peak potential; D) Tafel plots.

**Figure 5.** A) HOR curves obtained *j* at varying rotation speeds (i.e., 400, 900, 1600, and 2500 rpm) of Ru-increased nanocatalyst; B) The Levich plot obtained at 0.5 V versus RHE at different rotation rates of Ru-increased nanocatalyst; C) Comparison of HOR MA (versus total metal and Pt) of Pt/PC, PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased nanocatalyst at 50 mV overpotential; D) Tafel slope.

pure Pt are close to the results reported in literature.<sup>[7,29,30]</sup> In particular, the Ru-increased nanocatalyst has a much smaller half-wave potential of 11 mV and reaches the diffusion-limited current at a lower potential (91 mV). The enhanced HOR ability of the Ru-increased nanocatalyst can be attributed to the stronger electronic effect, smaller particle size, as well as the lattice shrinkage of Pt atoms.

Based on above-mentioned CVs and corresponding LSV results, Figure 4C provides the correlation between HOR activity and Hund peak potential driven by near-surface engineering. It clearly shows that the HBE of nanocatalysts is following the order: Ru-increased < PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 < Pt-increased < Pt/PC. Therefore, incorporating Ru atoms to a pure Pt catalyst could help weaken the adsorption strength of H, and the nearsurface design of PtRu3 alloy can effectively control the adsorption energy of reaction intermediates. Zhuang et al. also found that the Ru-decorated Pt electrode exhibited about a three times higher HOR activity than the bare platinum electrode, which was attributed to the fact that the HBE on Ru decorated Pt (111) (-0.19 eV) was lower than that of the Pt (111) (-0.37 eV). [33] HER/HOR kinetic current density,  $j_k$ , was calculated based on the Koutecky-Levich equation (see the Supporting Information), and Figure 4D displays the  $j_k$  as a logarithmic function versus potential. Whereafter, the exchange current densities  $(j_0)$  and electron transfer coefficients ( $\alpha_a$ ) have been calculated by Butler– Volmer equation (see the Supporting Information) and used to evaluate electrocatalytic activity. The  $j_0$  of the Pt/PC nanocatalyst is determined to be 143.3 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Pt</sub>, in good agreement with a previous study. [9a,b,34]  $j_0$  normalized to the mass of the Pt on the Ru-increased nanocatalyst is 1312.2 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>Pt, which was 1.6, 1.9, and 9.2 times higher than those on the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300

(839.8 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Pt</sub>), Pt-increased (682.3 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Pt</sub>), and Pt/PC nanocatalysts, respectively. Moreover, the Ru-increased nanocatalyst outperforms other reported materials in the previous literature, in terms of its mass activity and exchange current density (Table S1, Supporting Information). The  $\alpha_a$  of the HOR kinetic currents on the Pt/PC is 0.51, which suggests that the HOR and HER are symmetric.<sup>[35]</sup> However, the  $\alpha_a$  is 0.71, 0.53, and 0.81 for PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Ru-increased nanocatalysts, respectively, which implies the Ru-increased nanocatalyst is more conducive towards the alkaline HOR instead of the alkaline HER process.<sup>[36]</sup>

The plateaus at  $\approx 2.5$  mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>disk</sub> in the HOR branch are caused by limited H2 transport to the electrode surface from the bulk electrolyte at a rotating speed of 1600 rpm, and the variation in the H<sub>2</sub>-limiting current density ( $j_{lim}$ ) is attributed to the different H<sub>2</sub> concentration and diffusivity in the electrolytes, as well as the different kinetic viscosity of the electrolytes, related by the Levich equation (see the Supporting Information).[37] Additional HOR curves for the Ru-increased nanocatalyst at various rotating speeds (i.e., 400, 900, 1600, and 2500 rpm) can be found in Figure 5A. Due to faster mass transfer at higher speeds, the current density increases with increasing rotating speed. The Levich plot shown in the Figure 5B exhibits a linear relationship between the inverse of j and  $\omega^{1/2}$ . The calculated slope is 0.065 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>disk</sub>·rpm<sup>0.5</sup>, which is very close to the theoretical value.[3] As shown in Figure 5C, the mass activity (MA) versus total metal or Pt were determined at 50 mV overpotential. An Ru-increased nanocatalyst exhibits the highest MA of 11.24 mA  $\mu g^{-1}_{Pt}$ , which is about 38.8, 6.9, and 2.6 times as much as those of the Pt/C (0.29 mA  $\mu g^{-1}_{Pt}$ ), Ptincreased (1.62 mA  $\mu g^{-1}_{Pt}$ ), and PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 (4.28 mA  $\mu g^{-1}_{Pt}$ )

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

**Table 1.** Comparison for four different nanocatalysts in terms of Pt loading, kinetic current density, exchange current density, Tafel slope, and  $\alpha_a$  toward alkaline HOR.

| Catalysts                 | Pt Loading [μg cm <sup>-2</sup> disk] | $j_{\rm k}$ [50 mV] [mA $\mu {\rm g}^{-1}_{\rm Pt}$ ] | j <sub>0</sub> [mA mg <sup>-1</sup> <sub>Pt</sub> ] | Tafel slope [mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ] | $lpha_{ m a}$ |
|---------------------------|---------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------|
| PtRu <sub>3</sub> /PC-300 | 4.0                                   | 4.28                                                  | 839.8                                               | 63                                  | 0.71          |
| Pt-increased              | 4.0                                   | 1.62                                                  | 682.3                                               | 91                                  | 0.53          |
| Ru-increased              | 4.0                                   | 11.24                                                 | 1312.2                                              | 38                                  | 0.81          |
| Pt/PC                     | 10.2                                  | 0.29                                                  | 143.3                                               | 123                                 | 0.51          |

nanocatalysts (**Table 1**), respectively. And the MA of the Ruincreased nanocatalyst stays on the top among reported noble metal-based HOR nanocatalysts in the previous work (Table S1, Supporting Information). The HOR in an alkaline medium proceed through the following order of Tafel–Volmer or Heyrovsky–Volmer sequences:

Tafel step: 
$$H_2 + 2* \leftrightarrow 2H_{ad}$$
 (1)

Heyrovsky step: 
$$H_2 + OH^- + * \leftrightarrow H_{ad} + H_2O + e^-$$
 (2)

Volmer step: 
$$H_{ad} + OH^- \leftrightarrow H_2O + e^- + *$$
 (3)

In the above elementary reaction steps, an adsorbed reaction intermediate of H<sub>ad</sub> on the electrode surface plays a critical role in determining the HOR activity in an alkaline electrolyte, similar to the case in the acidic electrolyte. Consequently, the adsorption and removal of H<sub>ad</sub> become competitive processes.<sup>[4b]</sup> As shown in Figure 5D, the Tafel slope values, collected at micropolarization region of HOR curves, appear to increase in the following order: Ru-increased (38 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>)  $< PtRu_3/PC-300 (63 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) < Pt-increased (91 \text{ mV de$ Pt/PC (123 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). As the Ru content of the near-surface increases, the HOR kinetics is improved and the Tafel slope gradually decreases. The binding energy of H<sub>ad</sub> on the Pt surface is relatively high, so the Volmer step usually restricts the HOR kinetics of most the Pt-based nanocatalysts in the alkaline medium.<sup>[38]</sup> However, the evolution of the Tafel slope from the Pt/PC to Ru-increased nanocatalyst suggests that the Ruincreased nanostructure changes the rate-determining step (RDS) of the Pt sites, possibly shifting from the Volmer to Tafel or Heyrovsky step. [17,39] The Ru-based catalysts in the literature also have similar lower Tafel slope values (such as 43 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> of Ru-doped Pt/C<sup>[17]</sup> and  $\approx$ 30 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> of Ru<sub>x</sub>Pt<sub>y</sub>,<sup>[40]</sup> Table S1, Supporting Information). Qiao et al. also found that the Tafel slope of PtNi/C (47 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and dealloyed PtCo/C (35 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) nanocatalysts in 0.1 м KOH solution is lower, which is attributed to the in-situ generation of H<sub>3</sub>O<sup>+</sup> ions on the surface of the nanocatalysts.<sup>[41]</sup> The presence of H<sub>3</sub>O<sup>+</sup> leads to an acidic local surface environment within the electric double layer region, thereby obtaining a Tafel slope close to that of an acidic electrolyte (≈30 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>)<sup>[42]</sup> in 0.1 M KOH solution. Therefore, it is reasonable to consider that the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC with an Ru-increased nanostructure should exhibit better kinetics and a weaker energy barrier for HOR. In comparison with the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 and Pt-increased nanocatalysts, the Ru-increased nanocatalyst contains a different phase structure, electronic structure, and

near-surface atomic composition, which offers a weaker HBE to enhance its HOR activity.

#### 2.3. Anti-CO Poisoning Ability Tests

Currently, in the industry, most of H2 was produced by reforming hydrocarbons from fossil fuels, thereby small amounts of CO impurity will be introduced in H2. Even deficient concentrations (≈10 ppm) of CO can strongly adsorb on the surface of nanocatalysts and drastically reduce the performance of AEMFCs. Our previous work has shown that the electronic effect of the Pt<sub>3</sub>Co/PC nanocatalysts can promote the oxidation of CO to COOH<sub>ad</sub> intermediate, while the oxophilic effect of Pt<sub>3</sub>Co/PC with a Co-increased structure can further improve the oxidation of COOHad to CO2. [19c] Furthermore, the high oxophilic behavior of pure Ru metal is demonstrated by the decreasing HOR currents at about 0.30 V due to the early formation of adsorbed OH species, reported by Gasteiger et al. [33] **Figure 6** shows the CO stripping voltammograms of four nanocatalysts in a 0.1 м КОН electrolyte. For pure Pt catalysts, compared to the acidic medium, there will be multiple CO oxidation peaks in the CO stripping voltammograms in an alkaline medium, such as early peak, pre-peak peak, and main peak. [43] Generally, the oxidation peak potential and onset oxidation potential depend on the surface atomic composition of nanocatalysts. The peak potential of CO<sub>ad</sub> oxidation on the three PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC nanocatalysts is more negative than that on the Pt/PC nanocatalyst. The Ru-increased and PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 nanocatalysts have a similar and more negative oxidation peak potential, but the onset oxidation potential of the Ru-increased is more negative than that of the PtRu<sub>3</sub>/PC-300 nanocatalyst. Thus, the CO tolerance ability of the Ru-increased is significantly enhanced by alloying with the Ru and high temperature treatment. The electronic effect derived from the lattice mismatch of the Pt and Ru atoms not only decreases the binding energy of reaction intermediates, but also promotes the oxidation of the CO. Furthermore, the CO<sub>ad</sub> oxidation tests can be used to predict the oxophilic effect of nanocatalysts, [44] the sequence of four nanocatalysts: Pt/C < Pt-increased < PtRu<sub>3</sub>/ PC-300 ≤ Ru-increased. According to the above analysis, the Ruincreased nanocatalyst has the strongest electronic effect and oxophilic effect, which can enhance the HOR performance by weakening the adsorption of the H and CO species as well as improving the oxidation of the CO.

Indeed, in the face to the development and application of AEMFCs, nanocatalysts with a high CO tolerance and HOR selectivity are essential to reduce the cost of a fuel cells system. Chronoamperometry is further used to examine the

**Figure 6.** CO-stripping voltammograms of four nanocatalysts in N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> .

CO tolerance and HOR selectivity of the PtRu3/PC and Pt/PC nanocatalysts at 0.4 V in the presence of 1000 ppm CO. Unlike the CO-stripping voltammetry experiment where only one layer of the CO is adsorbed on the surface of nanocatalyst, in the chronoamperometry test, the CO continuously enters the KOH solution and is adsorbed on the surface of the nanocatalyst in competition with H2. As shown in **Figure 7**, the current density for HOR on the Ru-increased nanocatalyst decreased by only 31.4% after continuous operation for 3600 s. For the other three nanocatalysts, PtRu3/PC-300, Pt/PC, and Pt-increased lost 35.6%, 53.1%, and 56.2% of its current under the same conditions, respectively. For the Pt-increased and Pt/PC nanocatalysts, CO will gradually poison the active sites and prevent the adsorption of H species, resulting in a great decline in electrocatalytic performance. However, due to the stronger electronic effect and oxophilic effect of the Ru-increased and PtRu3/ PC-300 nanocatalysts, the CO poisoning on the surface of the nanocatalysts is weakened, and more H species participate in

**Figure 7.** CO tolerance test of four samples in 0.1 m KOH solution at 0.4 V versus RHE, the solution was purged with H2/1000 ppm CO balance gas. Rotating rate: 1600 rpm.

the electrochemical reaction. Furthermore, the current density of the four nanocatalysts at 3600s is 1.23, 1.21, 1.40, and 1.98 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> disk for the Pt/PC, Pt-increased, PtRu3/PC-300, and Ru-increased, respectively. Therefore, the Ru-increased PtRu3/PC nanocatalyst possesses excellent selectivity for HOR against CO poisoning.

# **3. Conclusions**

In summary, the PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts with the same bulk composition and different near-surface atomic composition (Ptincreased, PtRu3/PC-300, and Ru-increased) were successfully synthesized by using controlled thermal treatment method. The near-surface atomic composition of the PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts strongly depends on the annealing temperature and atmosphere. This work establishes the correlation between the near-surface atomic composition of the PtRu3/PC nanocatalysts and the HOR activity. The Ru-increased nanocatalyst with the strongest electronic effect and oxophilic effect could not only maximize the utilization efficiency of the Pt, but also change the RDS of its HOR. The electronic effect can weaken the HBE and the binding strength of COad, and the oxophilic effect makes the CO more easily oxidized to the CO2. Therefore, the as-prepared Ru-increased nanocatalyst exhibits an enhanced HOR activity and CO tolerance relative to the PtRu3/PC-300, Pt-increased, and Pt/PC nanocatalysts, and the Ru-increased nanomaterial is expected to be served as an anodic nanocatalyst for AEMFCs.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This study was supported by grants from the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2017YFA0206500) and the Natural Science Foundation of China (21773198 and U1705253).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Keywords**

annealing, hydrogen oxidation reaction, near-surface atomic composition, porous carbon, PtRu3 nanocatalysts

> Received: October 26, 2020 Revised: December 8, 2020 Published online: January 20, 2021

- [1] a) J. Greeley, N. M. Markovic, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 9246;
  - b) N. Ramaswamy, S. Mukerjee, *Chem. Rev.* **2019**, *119*, 11945;
  - c) H. Wang, H. D. Abruña, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 5057; d) L. Zeng,

**www.small-journal.com**

- H. Peng, W. Liu, J. Yin, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *J. Power Sources* **2020**, *461*, 228147; e) Y. Zhou, Z. Xie, J. Jiang, J. Wang, X. Song, Q. He, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 454; f) J. Zhang, L. Shen, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 19557.
- [2] a) K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 2404; b) S. Yuan, L. L. Cui, Z. Dou, X. Ge, X. He, W. Zhang, T. Asefa, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2000742; c) X. Sun, P. Wei, S. Gu, J. Zhang, Z. Jiang, J. Wan, Z. Chen, L. Huang, Y. Xu, C. Fang, Q. Li, J. Han, Y. Huang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906057; d) W. Zhang, X. Yao, S. Zhou, X. Li, L. Li, Z. Yu, L. Gu, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1800423.
- [3] J. Mao, C. T. He, J. Pei, Y. Liu, J. Li, W. Chen, D. He, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 3442.
- [4] a) S. M. Alia, B. S. Pivovar, Y. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 13473; b) W. Sheng, H. A. Gasteiger, S. H. Yang, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2010**, *157*, B1529; c) J. Durst, A. Siebel, C. Simon, F. Hasche, J. Herranz, H. A. Gasteiger, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2255; d) H. A. Firouzjaie, W. E. Mustain, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 225; e) D. Liu, S. Lu, Y. Xue, Z. Guan, J. Fang, W. Zhu, Z. Zhuang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *59*, 26.
- [5] N. M. Markovica, S. T. Sarraf, H. A. Gasteigert, P. N. Ross, *J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans.* **1996**, *92*, 3719.
- [6] Q. Li, H. Peng, Y. Wang, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 1442.
- [7] Y. Qiu, L. Xin, Y. Li, I. T. McCrum, F. Guo, T. Ma, Y. Ren, Q. Liu, L. Zhou, S. Gu, M. J. Janik, W. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 16580.
- [8] W. Sheng, M. Myint, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 1509.
- [9] a) W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, M. Gao, J. Zheng, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 5848; b) J. Zheng, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, e1501602.
- [10] S. Lu, Z. Zhuang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5156.
- [11] M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 255.
- [12] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. v. d. Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [13] X. Chen, I. T. McCrum, K. A. Schwarz, M. J. Janik, M. T. M. Koper, *Angew. Chem.* **2017**, *56*, 15025.
- [14] a) K. Okubo, J. Ohyama, A. Satsuma, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, *55*, 3101; b) G. Wang, W. Li, N. Wu, B. Huang, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *412*, 282; c) N. Ramaswamy, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, Q. Jia, J. Li, S. Mukerjee, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *41*, 765.
- [15] Y. Wang, G. Wang, G. Li, B. Huang, J. Pan, Q. Liu, J. Han, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 177.
- [16] S. S. John, R. W. Atkinson, K. A. Unocic, R. R. Unocic, T. A. Zawodzinski, A. B. Papandrew, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 7015.
- [17] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, M. K. Bates, T. E. Miller, V. Davies, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, S. Mukerjee, Z. F. Ma, Q. Jia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 15594.
- [18] T. Takeguchi, T. Yamanaka, K. Asakura, E. N. Muhamad, K. Uosaki, W. Ueda, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 14508.
- [19] a) B. W. Zhang, Z. C. Zhang, H. G. Liao, Y. Gong, L. Gu, X. M. Qu, L. X. You, S. Liu, L. Huang, X. C. Tian, R. Huang, F. C. Zhu, T. Liu, Y. X. Jiang, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *19*, 198; b) B. W. Zhang, T. Sheng, Y. X. Wang, X. M. Qu, J. M. Zhang, Z. C. Zhang, H. G. Liao, F. C. Zhu, S. X. Dou, Y. X. Jiang, S. G. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 892; c) Z. C. Zhang, X. C. Tian, B. W. Zhang, L. Huang, F. C. Zhu, X. M. Qu, L. Liu, S. Liu, Y. X. Jiang, S. G. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *34*, 224; d) J. Zhang, X. Qu, Y. Han, L. Shen, S. Yin, G. Li, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *263*, 118345.
- [20] a) S. Yamamoto, Y. Morimoto, T. Ono, M. Takano, *Appl. Phys. Lett.* **2005**, *87*, 032503; b) T. Komatsu, M. Takasaki, K. Ozawa,

- S. Furukawa, A. Muramatsu, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2013**, *117*, 10483; c) J. Kim, Y. Lee, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 4996.
- [21] D. Y. Chung, S. W. Jun, G. Yoon, S. G. Kwon, D. Y. Shin, P. Seo, J. M. Yoo, H. Shin, Y. H. Chung, H. Kim, B. S. Mun, K. S. Lee, N. S. Lee, S. J. Yoo, D. H. Lim, K. Kang, Y. E. Sung, T. Hyeon, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 15478.
- [22] Z. Cui, H. Chen, M. Zhao, D. Marshall, Y. Yu, H. Abruna, F. J. DiSalvo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 10206.
- [23] W. Ni, T. Wang, P. A. Schouwink, Y. C. Chuang, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 10797.
- [24] H. Wang, Y. Yang, F. J. DiSalvo, H. D. Abruña, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 4608.
- [25] G. Liu, W. Zhou, B. Chen, Q. Zhang, X. Cui, B. Li, Z. Lai, Y. Chen, Z. Zhang, L. Gu, H. Zhang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *66*, 104173.
- [26] Q. Zhang, K. Kusada, D. Wu, T. Yamamoto, T. Toriyama, S. Matsumura, S. Kawaguchi, Y. Kubota, H. Kitagawa, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 510.
- [27] Z. Cao, Q. Chen, J. Zhang, H. Li, Y. Jiang, S. Shen, G. Fu, B. Lu, Z. Xie, L. Zheng, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15131.
- [28] G. V. Ramesh, R. Kodiyath, T. Tanabe, M. Manikandan, T. Fujita, N. Umezawa, S. Ueda, S. Ishihara, K. Ariga, H. Abe, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6*, 16124.
- [29] W. Xiao, W. Lei, J. Wang, G. Gao, T. Zhao, M. A. L. Cordeiro, R. Lin, M. Gong, X. Guo, E. Stavitski, H. L. Xin, Y. Zhu, D. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 11346.
- [30] M. E. Scofield, Y. Zhou, S. Yue, L. Wang, D. Su, X. Tong, M. B. Vukmirovic, R. R. Adzic, S. S. Wong, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 3895.
- [31] a) C. D. Wagner, L. E. Davis, M. V. Zeller, J. A. Taylor, R. H. Raymond, L. H. Gale, *Surf. Interface Anal.* **1981**, *3*, 211; b) Y. J. Deng, N. Tian, Z. Y. Zhou, R. Huang, Z. L. Liu, J. Xiao, S. G. Sun, *Chem. Sci.* **2012**, *3*, 1157; c) R. Rizo, R. M. Arán-Ais, E. Padgett, D. A. Muller, M. J. Lázaro, J. Solla-Gullón, J. M. Feliu, E. Pastor, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 3791.
- [32] T. Zhao, Y. Hu, M. Gong, R. Lin, S. Deng, Y. Lu, X. Liu, Y. Chen, T. Shen, Y. Hu, L. Han, H. Xin, S. Chen, D. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *74*, 104877.
- [33] W. Liu, K. Lyu, L. Xiao, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2019**, *327*, 135016.
- [34] H. A. Gasteiger, N. M. Markovic, P. N. Ross, *J. Phys. Chem.* **1995**, *99*, 16757.
- [35] W. Sheng, A. P. Bivens, M. Myint, Z. Zhuang, R. V. Forest, Q. Fang, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 1719.
- [36] Y. Cong, I. T. McCrum, X. Gao, Y. Lv, S. Miao, Z. Shao, B. Yi, H. Yu, M. J. Janik, Y. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 3161.
- [37] A. G. Oshchepkov, A. Bonnefont, S. N. Pronkin, O. V. Cherstiouk, C. Ulhaq-Bouillet, V. Papaefthimiou, V. N. Parmon, E. R. Savinova, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *402*, 447.
- [38] C. Long, K. Wang, Y. Shi, Z. Yang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, J. Han, Y. Bao, L. Chang, S. Liu, Z. Tang, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2019**, *6*, 2900.
- [39] X. Tian, P. Zhao, W. Sheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808066.
- [40] S. S. John, R. W. Atkinson, R. R. Unocic, T. A. Zawodzinski, A. B. Papandrew, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 13481.
- [41] X. Wang, C. Xu, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4876.
- [42] Z. Lin, L. Shen, X. Qu, J. Zhang, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Acta Phys. Chim. Sin.* **2019**, *35*, 523.
- [43] a) A. Cuesta, A. Couto, A. Rincon, M. C. Perez, A. Lopez-Cudero, C. Gutierrez, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2006**, *586*, 184; b) G. García, M. T. M. Koper, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2009**, *131*, 5384; c) H. Wang, H. D. Abruña, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2015**, *6*, 1899.
- [44] a) L. Zhuang, J. Jin, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2007**, *129*, 11033; b) L. Shen, B. Lu, X. Qu, J. Ye, J. Zhang, S. Yin, Q. Wu, R. Wang, S. Shen, T. Sheng, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *62*, 601.