---
source: Zheng 等 - 2025 - Lattice‐Matched Iridium on Vanadium Nitride as Efficient Hydrogen Electrocatalyst.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 53.539s
generated: 2026-01-10T06:54:08.438009Z
---

# **Lattice-Matched Iridium on Vanadium Nitride as Efficient Hydrogen Electrocatalyst**

*Yijuan Zheng, Zhenyu Xing, Sutong Xiao, Daoping Ye, Yuxuan Kong, Shuxin Zhang, Tian Ma, Chong Cheng,\* Shuang Li,\* and Changsheng Zhao*

**Iridium (Ir), with optimal hydrogen binding energy (HBE) and hydroxyl bonding energy (OHBE), is considered a promising platform for achieving bi-directional hydrogen catalysis. However, traditional Ir-based catalysts with multiple crystalline facets exhibit a gap between the apparent activity and theoretical value, especially for the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR). Here, a molten co-growth process of Ir and vanadium nitride (Ir-VN) is reported, realizing precise exposure of lattice-matched Ir (111) on VN with optimal HBE and OHBE, for highly active hydrogen catalysis. The Ir-VN catalyst demonstrates exceptional HOR activity with exchange currents 1.8–4.8 times higher than those of noble metal benchmark catalysts, as well as improved durability and CO tolerance. The unique lattice-matching effect promotes the directional electron transfer and induces shortened Ir**─**Ir bonds via the strongly coupled interface, therefore resulting in enhanced anti-oxidation and anti-CO capability. The Ir-VN catalyst also demonstrates great HER activity and operational durability in a wide pH range, requiring only 21, 12, and 82 mV to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in alkaline, acidic, and neutral conditions, respectively. This work not only deepens the understanding of hydrogen electrocatalysis mechanisms but also inspires the rational design and controllable synthesis of catalysts with active crystal facets for various applications.**

**1. Introduction**

Green hydrogen has been considered one of the most promising resources to achieve carbon neutralization owing to its zero-carbon release during production and conversion.[\[1–7\]](#page-10-0) The proton-exchange membrane fuel cells and electrochemical

Y. Zheng, Z. Xing, S. Xiao, D. Ye, Y. Kong, T. Ma, C. Cheng, S. Li, C. Zhao College of Polymer Science and Engineering National Key Laboratory of Advanced Polymer Materials Sichuan University Chengdu 610065, China

E-mail: [chong.cheng@scu.edu.cn;](mailto:chong.cheng@scu.edu.cn) [shuang.li@scu.edu.cn](mailto:shuang.li@scu.edu.cn)

S. Zhang State Key Lab of Organic−Inorganic Composites and Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Soft Matter Science and Engineering Beijing University of Chemical Technology Beijing 100029, China

*Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2508994 **2508994 (1 of 12)** © 2025 Wiley-VCH GmbH

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202508994>

water-splitting technologies based on electrolyzers have emerged as attractive technologies for developing green hydrogen economies.[\[8–13\]](#page-10-0) Two chemically reversible fundamental reactions, namely the hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) are included in the hydrogen cycles.[\[14–16\]](#page-10-0) The former primarily takes place at the anode of fuel cells, achieving chemical-to-electrical energy conversion, while the latter is the core reaction of hydrogen production by water electrolysis and realizes electric-to-chemical energy conversion.[\[17\]](#page-10-0) Due to the same intermediate in this reversible hydrogen catalysis for HOR and HER, one catalyst is supposed to exhibit high activity in both directions.[\[18–20\]](#page-10-0) However, this is not true for most of the reported catalysts, which show much poorer HOR activity relative to their HER. This insufficient HOR activity could have resulted from several reasons: i) the H\* coverage related hydrogen binding energy (HBE) on the surface and the different effects of hydroxyl bonding energy (OHBE);[\[21,22\]](#page-10-0) ii) the sequence of steps in the forward and backward may be

different;[\[23\]](#page-10-0) iii) the surface oxidation of the metallic surface forming metal oxide/ hydroxide surface during HOR conditions.[\[24\]](#page-10-0) The best catalyst for both HER and HOR must have optimal HBE and OHBE in acidic and alkaline conditions, as well as good stability under oxidation conditions.

In the circumstance of optimal HBE and OHBE, Ir can be considered as promising catalysts for bi-functional HOR and HER.[\[25–28\]](#page-10-0) However, according to experimental observations, most of the unmodified Ir catalysts show poor activity, especially for HOR. This could be attributed to the complicated surface atomic arrangement providing various geometric and crystal phases with different HBE and OHBE properties.[\[14,29,30\]](#page-10-0) It is reported that metallic Ir with low exponential crystal facets show much enhanced HOR and HER activity compared to the complex nanoparticles.[\[31,32\]](#page-10-0) For example, more negative hydrogen desorption peak potentials were observed on Ir (110) and Ir (111) as compared with high index Ir facets, indicating the lower HBE on them.[\[21\]](#page-10-0) However, traditional Ir-based electrocatalysts usually show island-like growth of Ir nanoparticles with a mixed state of multiple crystalline facets, which does not allow for precise exposure of highly active facets.[\[31\]](#page-10-0) Another key

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202508994**

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202508994 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

limiting factor of Ir is its easy-oxidation feature in the HOR potential region, which leads to enhanced OHad affinity and thus rapid catalyst deactivation.[\[33,34\]](#page-10-0) As a result, Ir-based catalysts usually exhibit insufficient stability for HOR. Meanwhile, complex surface atomic arrangement and catalytic environments lead to great difficulty in mechanism investigation for hydrogen electrocatalysis at the atomic scale.[\[35–37\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, the rational synthesis of Ir atomic structure with large exposure of high active facets and anti-oxidation ability is urgent and significant to push the development of hydrogen electrocatalysis.

In this article, we reported a lattice-matched molten co-growth strategy for constructing a controllable Ir structure with preferential active facet exposure on vanadium nitride (VN) support. The motivation for choosing VN as support is that: i) the very similar and well-matched VN face-centered cubic (fcc) crystal structures with metallic Ir; ii) the deficiency in the *d*-band and higher density of states of vanadium near the Fermi level allow noble metal-like behavior;[\[38\]](#page-10-0) iii) VN is known for its weaker HBE and optimal OHBE,[\[34\]](#page-10-0) which are expected to further optimize the HBE of Ir sites. As such, the good lattice match between VN and Ir ensures that Ir (111) facets grow precisely along the VN (111) facets, while the formed Ir─V bonds at the interface induce the directional electron transfer from V to Ir, which inhibits the overoxidation of Ir,[\[39\]](#page-10-0) and thus stabilizes metallic Ir and promotes catalytic efficiency. The strongly coupled interface and compressed Ir arrangement synergistically result in weaker CO adsorption on Ir-VN,[\[40\]](#page-10-0) and therefore less susceptibility to CO poisoning. The density functional theory (DFT) simulations suggest that the lattice-matching effect induces epitaxial growth of Ir, and the formed strongly coupled interface stabilizes atomic Ir layers. Moreover, combining DFT and in situ tests, the prominent electronic effects between Ir and VN rationally balance HBE and OHBE, ultimately contributing to the HOR and HER processes. As predicted, the well-defined Ir-VN catalyst exhibits superior bifunctional activities for both HOR and HER in wide pH conditions, which achieves a current density of 2.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 50 mV for HOR, and requires 21, 12, and 82 mV to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in alkaline, acidic, and neutral conditions for HER. These insights may inspire the rational design and controllable synthesis of efficient and durable catalysts with well-defined crystal facets in hydrogen electrocatalysis and other catalytic applications.

# **2. Results**

#### **2.1. Materials Synthesis and Characterization**

Inspired by the similar crystalline structure and lattice compatibility of VN and Ir, we propose that VN could be an ideal platform to exposure preferential Ir facets controllably via lattice-matching effect (Figure S1, Supporting Information). To achieve the precise co-nucleation and growth of Ir and VN lattice, we have developed a pre-complexation and melt assisted annealing approach, in which V<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> is nitrided into VN, while Ir<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> is reduced to metallic Ir and tends to grow along the VN lattice, denoted as the latticematched molten co-growth process (**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-2-0). For comparison, a chemical adsorption and reduction method was employed to load Ir particles onto the as-prepared VN (Ir@VN), where the Ir species randomly aggregated on the VN due to the weaker interaction between well-grown VN surface and Ir atoms (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern and the corresponding Rietveld refinement profiles reveal the formation of typical fcc VN (*Fm-3m*, PDF No. 35–0768) with a phase content of 96.24 wt.% (Figure S2 and Table S1, Supporting Information), and the negligible signal of Ir particles suggests the atomic thickness of Ir layers in Ir-VN catalyst.[\[41\]](#page-10-0) In contrast, an apparent coexistence of Ir particles and VN are observed in the XRD pattern of Ir@VN, indicating that the post adsorption-reduction method provides insufficient regulation on the Ir structure.

The morphologies of as-synthesized catalysts were investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) (Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information). SEM images indicate uniform particle structures of VN, Ir-VN, and Ir@VN with a narrow diameter of ≈55 nm (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Notably, the high-resolution TEM images of Ir-VN and Ir@VN reveal the lattice-matched and disordered growth, respectively (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The molten co-growth process of Ir atoms on VN is theoretically illustrated in Figure [1c;](#page-2-0) single Ir atoms or small clusters grow in VN lattice and then form a well-ordered epitaxial atomic Ir layers due to the affinity between Ir atoms. By analyzing the formation energies, this process is predicted to be thermodynamically favorable (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0). The growth process can be well confirmed by the aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field imaging scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF-STEM) in Figure [1e–g.](#page-2-0) Energy dispersive spectroscopic (EDS) mapping analysis reveals that the bright atom arrays on VN support are Ir species in Ir-VN (Figure [1h\)](#page-2-0). When viewed along the [111] zone axis, a spacing of 2.51 and 2.22 Å are observed (Figure [1i,j\)](#page-2-0), corresponding to the (111) facets of VN and Ir, respectively, verifying the Ir (111) facets grow along the VN (111) facets due to the similar lattice parameters. The resulting precisely exposed Ir (111) facets, belonging to most active low-index crystal facets,[\[21,42\]](#page-10-0) may contribute to high bi-directional electrocatalytic activity and increase the utilization of Ir atoms. Although not experimentally observed, the potential exposure of (100) facet attributed to the low surface energy cannot be ruled out.[\[43\]](#page-10-0) While these (100) facets may exhibit lower activity than the (111) facet, they remain highly active low-index facets, contributing to HOR/HER. The small lattice misfit and strong interaction between Ir and VN favor the formation and stabilization of controllable Ir (111).[\[44,45\]](#page-10-0) From the side view of the Ir-VN model, the Ir (111) grows with the same crystalline orientation as the well-defined VN (111), demonstrating superb lattice matching at the intimate interface (Figure [1k\)](#page-2-0). In contrast, the multi-state of Ir facets in Ir@VN reveals that the post approach cannot take full advantage of the lattice compatibility between VN and Ir; thus, the VN merely serves as a support without strong interfacial interaction or modulating effect with Ir (Figure S4, Supporting Information). We rationalize that the molten co-growth approach gives rise to the precise growth of Ir with preferential (111) facet on VN, which may offer a high fraction of active sites for bi-directional hydrogen electrocatalysis.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was further carried out to gain insights into the dependence of electron transfer on lattice-matched interfaces (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The XPS survey spectra confirm the presence of Ir, V, and N, along with C and O in Ir-VN (Figure S5a and Table S2, Supporting

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Formation process and morphological characterizations of molten co-grown Ir-VN. a) The molten co-growth of Ir-VN. b) The chemical reduction process of Ir@VN. c) The theoretic formation process of Ir (111) on VN during the molten co-growth process. d) The calculated formation energies of disoriented-growing Ir cluster and lattice-matched Ir (111) on VN. e–g) AC-HAADF-STEM images corresponding to the gradual growth of lattice-matched Ir on VN. h) AC-HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding EDS elemental mappings (Ir: yellow, V: Olive, N: Green). i) AC-HAADF-STEM image of structural representation of Ir layers along VN support. j) Intensity profiles of Ir ad VN taken from the selected yellow and olive areas in i). k) The side view of the corresponding model of the lattice-matched interface in Ir-VN catalyst.

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2025, 39. Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atana.202508994 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Structural evolution of lattice matched Ir on VN. a) Ir 4f XPS spectra, and b) relative rations of the valence state of Ir species for Ir-VN, Ir/C, and Ir@VN. c) Normalized XANES spectra at Ir L<sub>3</sub>-edge of Ir-VN and reference samples. d) Valence analysis of Ir-VN. e) Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra and corresponding fitting curve for Ir-VN. f) WT analysis of the Ir L<sub>3</sub>-edge for Ir-VN, Ir foil, and IrO<sub>2</sub>.

Information). The Ir-VN and Ir@VN present obvious metal-N peaks in the V 2p and N 1s spectra, confirming the successful formation of VN (Figure S5c, Supporting Information). [46,47] As depicted in Figure 2a, the Ir 4f XPS spectrum of Ir-VN can be divided into two double peaks, where the signals centered at 60.76 and 63.86 eV belong well to the Ir<sup>0</sup>, and 61.98 and 65.08 eV are assigned to Ir<sup>4+</sup> As compared with Ir/C and Ir@VN, Ir-VN exhibited significantly decreased binding energy, and the relative peak area ratio reveals that metallic Ir account for the majority of Ir species (Figure 2b), suggesting the promoted electron injection effect of VN into lattice-matched Ir layers. Accordingly, the binding energy of V 2p in Ir-VN exhibits a positive core-level shift compared to Ir@VN and pristine VN (Figure S5b, Supporting Information), thus again indicating that the lattice-matched cogrowth process significantly promotes the interfacial directional electron transfer from V to Ir. Hence, relying on the strongly coupled lattice-matched interface, VN support leverages the electron injection effect to protect Ir from overoxidation during HOR, and also lower the HBE of Ir sites.[22,48]

Then, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was performed to gain deeper insights into the coordination environment and bonding behavior of Ir sites in the co-grown Ir-VN catalyst. The Ir L<sub>3</sub>-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra show the white-line intensity of Ir-VN located between Ir foil and IrO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 2c), and the simulated oxidation state of Ir is around + 1.5 (Figure 2d). Then the local coordination environment of Ir species in Ir-VN was investigated from Fourier-transform (FT) and wavelet transforms (WT) of extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra. The coordination features of Ir in Ir-VN are similar to those in Ir foil, indicating strong metallic coordination in the lattice-matched structure (Figure 2e). The shorter Ir—Ir (2.36 Å) bond compared to Ir foil (2.52 Å), suggests the formation of strongly coupled interfacial Ir-V bonds and the compression of Ir arrangement, correlated with the epitaxial lattice-matched growth of Ir layers on the VN support. [22,49] The EXAFS fitting in the R-space and k-space further suggests the Ir-Ir scattering with the coordination number of 3.4 and the Ir-V scattering with a coordination number of 2.6 (Figure 2e; Table www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

321 4095, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202508994 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (thtps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (thtps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (thtps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (thttps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (thttps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (thttps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (thttps://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons.

S3, Supporting Information), indicating the presence of obvious Ir—V bonds. The strong signal of Ir  $L_3$ -edge of Ir-VN in k space certifies the accuracy of the fitting result (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The WT images in Figure 2f show that the WT intensity maximum value at  $k = 10.8 \text{ Å}^{-1}$  belonging to Ir-Ir/V backscattering contributions is detected for Ir-VN, distinctly different from Ir foil ( $k = 12.2 \text{ Å}^{-1}$ ), suggesting the partial formation of Ir-V interfacial bonds. [50,51] Combining experimental XPS, XAS, and HAADF-STEM results, the calculated differential charge density, interfacial bond length, and r<sub>Ir-Ir</sub> all indicate that Ir atoms are bonded with V with a significant directional electron transfer from VN to Ir (11.71 |e|) (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Thus, the lattice-matched structure contributed to the strongly coupled Ir-V interfacial bonding and compressed Ir arrangement, which allows the directional electron transfer from VN to the empty d bands of the Ir species, [52-54] thus greatly enhancing the antioxidation ability and stability for bi-direction hydrogen catalysis.

#### 2.2. Evaluation of HOR and HER Performance

The alkaline HOR performance was first investigated using the rotating disk electrode (RDE) with a typical three-electrode electrochemical setup in an H<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 м KOH solution. As shown in Figure 3a, the current density of Ir-VN rapidly increases at 0 V and reaches 2.5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.05 V, surpassing those of Ir@VN (0.8 mA  $cm^{-2}$ ), Ir/C (1.0 mA  $cm^{-2}$ ), and Pt/C (2.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). The anodic current above 0 V is assigned to the oxidation of H<sub>2</sub> because a negligible anodic current is detected in the Ar-saturated electrolyte (Figure S8, Supporting Information). According to the Koutecky-Levich plot (Figure S9, Supporting Information), the slope of Ir-VN determined for HOR is 5.20 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup>, corresponding well to the theoretical value of 4.87 cm<sup>2</sup> mA<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1/2</sup> for the two-electron HOR process.[22] Tafel slopes of all catalysts were depicted according to the Bulter-Volmer equation in Figure 3b. In addition, the  $j_k$  value of Ir-VN calculated from Koutecky-Levich equation at 100 mV versus RHE is 18.87 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, surpassing that of Ir@VN (2.48 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ir/C (13.51 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Pt/C (14.70 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). By linear fitting of the micro-polarization regions (form -4 to 4 mV) (Figure 3c), Ir-VN affords the highest exchange current density  $(j_0)$  of 3.44 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, surpassing that of Ir@VN (0.71 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ir/C (0.77 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Pt/C (1.88 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), evidencing that Ir layers with preferential low-index facet in Ir-VN possess the fastest HOR kinetics. The turnover frequency (TOF) values of catalysts were then calculated to reveal the activity per active sites, where Ir-VN also affords the highest TOF value of 0.13 s<sup>-1</sup> per Ir atom at 50 mV (Figure \$10, Supporting Information). The electrochemical double-layer capacitance (C<sub>d1</sub>) and the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) were calculated from the cyclic voltammetry (CV) method for activity normalization (Figure S11 and Table S4, Supporting Information). To fairly compare the intrinsic activity,  $j_0$  is normalized with ECSA. The Ir-VN delivers a higher ECSA-normalized  $j_0$  of 3.85  $\mu$ A cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 2.50, 2.19, and 2.23 times that of Ir@VN (1.54  $\mu$ A cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ir/C (1.76  $\mu$ A cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Pt/C (1.73 µA cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively (Figure S10, Supporting Information).

Catalytic durability is another key factor for Ir-based HOR catalysts in future applications. The HOR stability of Ir-VN was evaluated by chronoamperometry test on a RDE. After a continuous 8 h operation at 0.1 V versus RHE, the Ir-VN catalyst exhibits inconspicuous degradation in current density (13.2%), while Ir@VN, Ir/C, and Pt/C suffer from decay of 75.1%, 95.4%, and 39.9% after 4 h operation, respectively (Figure 3d). Furthermore, we performed stability test on a catalyst-modified gas diffusion electrode (GDE) to simulate the real fuel cell environment, where catalysts are exposed to harsher condition, such as hydrogen insufficiency and poor mass transport. As investigated in Figure 3e, Ir-VN maintains 86.1% and 70.7% in current density after 10 and 20 h of continuous operation at 100 mV versus RHE, indicating sustainable stability under severe conditions. The SEM images and XRD patterns of Ir-VN after stability test show the same morphology and crystal structure as the pristine catalyst (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Although there is a small increase in Ir<sup>4+</sup> content, the Ir-VN catalyst retains partial Ir<sup>0</sup> and maintains most of its original activity (Figure \$13, Supporting Information).

We then conducted electrochemical measurements for the reverse HER reaction in Ar-saturated 1.0 м КОН (Figure 3f; Figures S14 and S15, Supporting Information). Ir-VN exhibits an ultralow onset potential, which is close to that of state-of-art Pt/C (Figure S14a, Supporting Information). Ir-VN affords the smallest overpotential of 21 mV, corresponding to 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, and stands out among Ir@VN, Ir/C, and Pt/C (Figure 3f). The mass activities and TOF of all samples are calculated; a mass current density of 7.13 A mg-1 can be obtained at the overpotential of 100 mV for Ir-VN, which is 18.76, 26.40, and 8.59 times higher than that of Ir@VN (0.38 A  $mg^{-1}$ ), Ir/C (0.27 A  $mg^{-1}$ ), and Pt/C (0.83 A mg<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 3g). And the TOF value of Ir-VN is  $6.87 \text{ s}^{-1}$  at the overpotential of 100 mV, exceeding that of Ir@VN (0.36  $s^{-1}$ ), Ir/C (0.28  $s^{-1}$ ), and Pt/C (0.85  $s^{-1}$ ), respectively. Similarly, the Tafel slope combined with the  $i_0$  proves that the lattice-matched Ir-VN has excellent intrinsic activity for HER (Figure 3h; Figure S14, Supporting Information). [55] Meanwhile, the HER performance in acidic and neutral electrolytes has been monitored in 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4$  and 1.0 M PBS solutions (Figures \$16–\$19, Supporting Information). Optimum catalytic activities have been delivered for Ir-VN with the lowest overpotentials of 12 and 82 mV to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 0.5 м H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> and 1.0 м PBS solutions, respectively (Figure 3h; Figures S15-S19, Supporting Information). Even compared with many Ir-based catalysts reported currently, the small overpotentials also manifest Ir-VN as a highly efficient pH-universal electrocatalyst for HER (Table \$5, Supporting Information). Tafel slopes of the Ir-VN catalyst in acidic and neutral environments are 18 and 37 dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, which demonstrate the accelerated HER kinetics among other catalysts. The Ir-VN catalyst presents the highest HER intrinsic activity by normalizing the activity to the noble metal and ECSA in wide pH conditions (Figures S14, S16, and \$18, Supporting Information). The chronopotentiometric tests of Ir-VN in alkaline, acidic, and neutral conditions at a fixed current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 22 h exhibit a negligible decay, indicating the good HER stability of Ir-VN (Figure S20, Supporting Information). The Ir-VN catalysts show high chemical stability after all-pH-value HER, as indicated by the unchanged morphology and chemical state of Ir species (Figure \$12, Supporting

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic HOR and HER performance of molten co-grown Ir-VN. a) HOR polarization curves in H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. b) Tafel plots of current densities. c) Micro-polarized regions (- 4 to 4 mV) of various catalysts. Relative current-time chronoamperometry response of Ir-VN, Ir@VN, Ir/C, and Pt/C at 100 mV versus RHE in H2-saturated 0.1 M KOH on RDE d) and GDE e). f) HER polarization curves in 1.0 m KOH. g) Mass activity and TOF values for Ir-VN, Ir@VN, Ir/C, and Pt/C at the overpotential of 100 mV for alkaline HER. h) The overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and Tafel slopes under pH of 0.3, 7.2, and 13.8. i) Scheme of AEM system structure. j) The polarization curves of Ir-VN/carbon paper (CC) || RuO2/Ni foam (NF) and Pt/C/CC || RuO2/NF toward overall water splitting (inner: the photo of the AEM electrolyzer). k) Long-time stability for water splitting at 250 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

Information). We rationalize that the lattice matching interaction offers high exposure of active facets and a strongly coupled synergistic interface,[\[56\]](#page-10-0) giving rise to the HER kinetics and durability over the full pH range.

To further investigate the catalyst's viability in practical hydrogen production systems, we then tested the performance of an anion exchange membrane (AEM) electrolyzer equipped with the Ir-VN cathode and RuO2 anode in a flowing alkaline electrolyte (Figure 3i). As illustrated in Figure 3j, the Ir-VN||RuO2 couple requires only 2.13 V to achieve a current density of 1 A cm<sup>−</sup>2. The electrolysis voltage of Ir-VN||RuO2 maintains stability with a negligible increasing *E*cell at 0.25 A cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> after 22 h (Figure 3k). These results demonstrate that the molten co-grown Ir-VN catalyst can be a promising catalyst for the practical alkaline HER.

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202508994 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

We also optimized the temperature of the lattice-matched molten co-growth process (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Increasing the annealing temperature promotes the agglomeration of Ir into larger particles, thereby reducing the utilization of highly active Ir sites. Critically, Ir sites distal from the interface lack the strongly coupled interfacial effect, leading to decreased HOR/HER activity.[\[57\]](#page-10-0)

#### **2.3. Theoretical Investigations for HOR/HER Activities**

To elucidate the molecular-level understanding of the HOR/HER catalytic mechanism on co-grown Ir-VN catalyst, we then performed DFT calculations. Ir-VN was constructed by growing Ir (111) layers along the VN (111) due to the lattice matching effect, while Ir@VN with Ir particles supported on the VN, and Ir (111) were used as references. As shown in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-7-0) the standard Ir-Ir interatomic distance (rIr-Ir) is 2.714 Å; however, owing to the strong interaction and small lattice misfit between VN and Ir layers, the rIr-Ir in the optimized Ir-VN model is reduced to 2.588 Å, demonstrating lattice compression strain exists in the Ir layers of Ir-VN to some extent. There is also a certain compression effect in Ir@VN (rIr-Ir is 2.606 Å), due to the size effect of clusters. Moreover, the different electronic structures of Ir and VN result in charge redistribution when they interact with each other. As illustrated in Figure [4b](#page-7-0) and Figure S22 (Supporting Information), the differential electron density map of Ir-VN reveals that excess electrons accumulate at the Ir-VN interface and the electrons transfer from VN to Ir, which is quantified by Bader charge analysis (0.29 |e| per Ir atom). This reveals that the latticematching growth of Ir layers on the VN surface induces the compressive strain in Ir layers and allows higher electron enrichment on Ir layers. Noticeably, the partial density of states (PDOS) of the Ir-4*d* orbital shows the downshift of the Ir-4*d* band center relative to Fermi level in Ir-VN as compared to that in Ir (111) and Ir@VN (-2.31 eV of Ir-VN vs -2.07 eV of Ir (111) and -1.61 eV for Ir@VN) (Figure [4c\)](#page-7-0), suggesting the weakened interaction with reaction intermediates on Ir-VN.

It is acknowledged that the HOR/HER activities are governed by the binding strength of both intermediates H\* and OH\*. The over-strong HBE and OHBE hinder the reaction of H\* and OH\* in the following Volmer step; meanwhile, too-strong OHBE causes OH\* occupation to severely block the regeneration of active sites.[\[24,42,58\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, the adsorption behaviors of H\* (ΔGH\*) and OH\* (ΔGOH\*) have been carefully investigated (Figure [4d,e;](#page-7-0) Figure S23, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [4d,](#page-7-0) Ir-VN owns an optimal ΔGH\* value of -0.22 eV among all models (-0.30 eV of Ir (111) and -0.66 eV of Ir@VN), indicating favorable H\* adsorption/desorption behavior on Ir-VN. Hydrogen temperature programmed desorption (H2-TPD) and electrochemical hydrogen underpotential deposition (HUPD) have then been employed to examine the HBE of Ir-VN and Ir@VN experimentally. As previously proved, H2 molecules' behaviors change on different crystal facets.[\[59\]](#page-11-0) In the H2-TPD curve of Ir@VN, two desorption peaks at 299 and 423 °C correspond to the weak and strong adsorption of H2, respectively, in agreement with the peak positions of the mixed state of multiple crystalline Ir facets (Figure S24, Supporting Information).[\[60\]](#page-11-0) However, for Ir-VN, only one H2 desorption peak belonging to the weak H2 adsorption appears at 278 °C, again suggesting the preferentially exposed low-index facets with weaker HBE, in line with the AC-HAADF-STEM results. The electrochemical HUPD peak of Ir-VN is located at 0.14 V, which is more negative than that of Ir@VN (0.20 V) (Figure [4f\)](#page-7-0), indicating a considerable attenuation of HBE on Ir sites. The operando EIS was then employed to analyze the hydrogen adsorption and transfer kinetics during HOR/HER (Figure S25, Supporting Information). All Nyquist curves were fitted by a double-parallel equivalent circuit model (Tables S6 and S7, Supporting Information).[\[10\]](#page-10-0) The first and second parallel components represent the charge transfer resistance (Rct) and hydrogen adsorption resistance (Rad). The smaller values of potential-independent Rct suggest that lattice-matched Ir-VN creates an ideal platform for rapid charge transfer between reactants and catalytic sites. According to the EIS-derived Tafel plots of logRad versus overpotential (Figure [4g\)](#page-7-0), the lattice-matched Ir-VN catalyst obtains faster hydrogen adsorption and transfer kinetics. Owing to the higher electron density on Ir species results from the directional charge redistribution between Ir and VN, Ir layers in Ir-VN exhibit the weakest OH\* binding strength (0.43 eV) (Figure [4e;](#page-7-0) Figure S26, Supporting Information). In sharp contrast, the OH\* adsorption on Ir@VN is over-strong (-1.09 eV), which will facilitate the deactivation of Ir sites and result in a higher energy barrier in the Volmer step, inducing worse catalytic performance.

Subsequently, the HOR/HER catalytic reaction pathways on Ir-VN, Ir@VN, and Ir (111) were simulated (Figure [4h;](#page-7-0) Figure S27, Supporting Information). With respect, the optimal ΔGH\* and ΔGOH\* on Ir-VN effectively narrow the thermodynamical energy gap (energy barriers of 0.28 eV for HOR and 0.22 eV for HER, respectively), thus facilitating the HOR/HER process (Figures S28 and S29, Supporting Information). It should be noted that the rate-determining step (RDS) is the OH\* adsorption during the HOR process for Ir-VN due to the weaker OHBE; while for Ir@VN, owing to the over-strong binding abilities toward H\* and OH\*, the RDS is the combination of H\* and OH\* in the Volmer step for HOR and the desorption of OH\* for HER with much higher energy barriers of 1.03 and 0.77 eV, respectively. Overall, the alkaline HOR and HER processes of Ir-VN are illustrated in Figure S30 (Supporting Information); lattice matching effect induced directional electron transfer optimizes the HBE and OHBE and further promotes the Volmer step, thus augmenting its HOR/HER catalytic activity. Operando attenuated total reflectance surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscope (ATR-SEIRAS) measurement was conducted to further study the catalytic behavior during HOR and HER (Figure [4i,j;](#page-7-0) Figure S31, Supporting Information). The Ir@VN catalyst shows obvious adsorption bands at 1107 and 2049 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (belonging to the characteristic peak of Ir-OH\* and Ir-H\*, respectively) that occur and rapidly accumulate with increasing potential for HOR (Figure [4j\)](#page-7-0).[\[61\]](#page-11-0) The over-strong adsorption of H\* and OH\* inhibits the combination of intermediates to form H2O, leading to low kinetics for HOR. During HER, the difficult-to-remove OH\* on Ir@VN will block Ir sites, thereby hindering the desorption of OH\* and re-adsorption of H\*, which is consistent with the strong Ir-OH\* and negligible Ir-H\* signals.[\[34\]](#page-10-0) In contrast, the Ir-OH\* and Ir-H\* peaks of the Ir-VN remain weak for both HOR and HER, indicating the accelerated dynamic adsorption/desorption of OH\* and H\* species during the electrocatalytic process owing

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Mechanism investigation on molten co-grown Ir-VN. a) Optimized configurations of the Ir (111), Ir@VN, and Ir-VN. b) Differential electron density analysis at the Ir-VN interface (cyan and yellow show charge consumption and accumulation, respectively, the cut-off of the density-difference isosurface is 0.015 e·Bohr<sup>−</sup>3). c) Calculated PDOS of Ir 4*d* orbital of Ir (111), Ir@VN, and Ir-VN. d) ΔGH\* on Ir (111), Ir@VN, and Ir-VN. e) OH\* adsorption energy on Ir (111), Ir@VN, and Ir-VN. f) HUPD curves of Ir-VN and Ir@VN. g) EIS-derived Tafel plots of Ir-VN and Ir@VN obtained from the Rad. h) Calculated the Gibbs free energy diagram of HOR on the Ir (111), Ir@VN, and Ir-VN. ATR-SEIRAS spectra of i) Ir-VN and j) Ir@VN for HOR.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Anti-deactivation and CO tolerance evaluation on molten co-grown Ir-VN. a) The CO adsorption energy of catalysts. b) CO-TPD patterns of Ir-VN and Ir@VN. c) CO poisoning experiments of Ir-VN, Ir@VN, Ir/C, and Pt/C at 100 mV versus RHE in a 1000 ppm CO/H2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte. d) HOR polarization curves in a broad working potential window. In situ Raman spectra of Ir-VN e) and Ir@VN f). g) Potential-dependent proportion of H2O(gap) from in situ Raman spectra. h) Chronoamperometry responses of Ir-VN and Ir@VN at 0.4 V versus RHE on GDE. i) Schematic illustration of CO tolerance and anti-deactivation on lattice-matched Ir-VN.

to the weakened HBE and OHBE on Ir, as indicated by the DFT calculations.

#### **2.4. CO Tolerance and Anti-Deactivation Evaluation**

The H2 fuels in practical application are primarily derived from industrial reforming gas, which is inevitably accompanied by CO impurity.[\[62\]](#page-11-0) Forming a strongly coupled lattice-matched interface leads to the shortened Ir─Ir bond length, which may induce lattice strain to weaken the binding of CO\* (Figure [4a\)](#page-7-0).[\[40\]](#page-10-0) The adsorption energy of CO\* on Ir-VN is more positive than that of Ir@VN, indicating the decreased binding strength of CO\* (**Figure 5**a; Figure S32, Supporting Information). We then adopted CO-TPD measurement to monitor the CO adsorption behavior. As shown in Figure 5b and Figure S14 (Supporting Information), the CO-TPD curves show only one peak at 322 °C, belonging to the peak position of weak CO adsorption. Importantly,

the desorption amount of pre-adsorbed CO on Ir-VN is far lower than Ir@VN, suggesting the attenuated CO adsorption on latticematched Ir sites. We further examined the HOR stability in the presence of 1000 ppm CO to verify the resistance of Ir-VN to CO poisoning. As illustrated in Figure [5c](#page-8-0) and Figure S33 (Supporting Information), the current density of the Ir-VN catalyst maintains 86.2% after 2000 s. In contrast, due to the accumulation of CO on the catalyst surface, the current density on Ir@VN drops sharply to 60.4%. These results unambiguously show the lattice matching effect between Ir layers and VN support helps weaken CO adsorption.

Meanwhile, Ir is oxophilic and preferentially forms Ir-OH\*, making it difficult for traditional Ir-based catalysts to maintain an oxide-free surface for bonding H\* within the anode potential range, resulting in a significant decrease in HOR activity.[\[63\]](#page-11-0) Decreased HOR limiting current densities (≈44.1%) can be observed on Ir@VN; whereas, the Ir-VN catalyst obtains stable current density in the whole potential range (Figure [5d\)](#page-8-0). It can be reasonably inferred that the catalytic properties of Ir-VN are completely altered by lattice-matching effect, where the directional electron injection from VN to Ir favors maintaining oxide-free surface for H\* transfer (Figure [5b\)](#page-8-0). The mechanism of Ir deactivation at the high potential for alkaline HOR could be specifically described as follows: the severe oxidation of Ir surface is not favorable for the connection of the H-bond networks in the gap zone, which results in slow H\* oxidation release.[\[59\]](#page-11-0) The experimental O-H stretching peak for interfacial water in H2 saturated 0.1 M KOH can be deconvoluted into three distinct components through Gaussian fitting (Figure [5e,f;](#page-8-0) Figure S34, Supporting Information), with the peak at ≈3555 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> representing water molecules in the gap region (denoted H2O(gap)) being used to study the anti-oxidative passivation process of Ir-VN and Ir@VN.[\[64–66\]](#page-11-0) As illustrated in Figure [5g,](#page-8-0) the proportions of H2O(gap) molecules increase at 100 mV on both Ir-VN and Ir@VN, which is due to the decreased K<sup>+</sup> concentration in the electrochemical double layer.[\[24\]](#page-10-0) Then, serious surface oxidation causes severe depletion of interfacial water and H-bond networks on the Ir@VN surface at the potential up to 200 mV. In comparison, higher proportions of H2O(gap) of Ir-VN across the potential range verify the best connectivity of H-bond networks for HOR catalysis, arising from the enhanced anti-overoxidation by strong directional electron transfer from VN support into Ir layers. Further chronoamperometry measurements verify that Ir-VN exhibits a stable HOR current at 0.4 V for 20 h with a mere 24.5% current density decay, while the HOR activity of Ir@VN almost disappears within 10 h under the same condition (Figure [5h\)](#page-8-0). These results uncover that lattice-matching effect of co-grown Ir-VN improve the CO tolerance and anti-oxidative passivation by compressed Ir arrangement and integrating directional electron transfer (Figure [5i\)](#page-8-0).

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have successfully designed and synthesized preferential low-index Ir facets along VN lattice via a simple molten co-growth process, serving as a novel catalyst optimization strategy to enhance the catalytic activity, durability, and anti-CO capacity. The structure analysis has disclosed that this Ir-VN presents abundant advantages, including i) high exposure of (111) facets, ii) directional electron transfer, and iii) compressed Ir arrangement from a strongly coupled interface; these are the governing reasons for the excellent HOR/HER performance. In-depth mechanistic analysis demonstrates that the lattice-matched Ir-VN achieves a suitable HBE, OHBE, and weakened CO adsorption, resulting in an energetically favorable Volmer step and improved anti-oxidation and anti-CO capability. Through precisely constructing the active low-index Ir facets on VN, a high current density of 2.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 50 mV, and enhanced long-term stability and CO tolerance are achieved for HOR. Meanwhile, the Ir-VN catalyst requires 21, 12, and 82 mV to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in alkaline, acidic, and neutral environments for HER, respectively, surpassing the by-far-reported Ir-based catalysts. Moreover, the AEM equipped with an Ir-VN catalyst exhibits outstanding activity, requiring 2.13 V at a current density of 1A cm<sup>−</sup>2, as well as 22 h stability as a cathode for continuous H2-production at 0.25 A cm<sup>−</sup>2. Therefore, we believe that this work will deepen the understanding of hydrogen electrocatalysis mechanisms, and this unique lattice-matched co-growth strategy may offer new inspiration to design efficient and durable electrocatalysts for diverse electrocatalytic processes.

## **4. Experimental Section**

Experimental details, including materials, synthesis of catalysts, characterizations, electrochemical measurements, operando spectroscopic measurement, and computation details, are listed in the Supporting Information.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52473278, 52273269, and 52203177) and the Sichuan Science and Technology Program (2024YFHZ0041). The authors acknowledge the financial support from the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. The authors gratefully acknowledge Dr. Mi Zhou and Dr. Chao He at Sichuan University for their experimental assistance. We would like to thank Dr. Yunfei Tian, Dr. Suilin Liu, and Dr. Shuguang Yan of Analytical & Testing Center of Sichuan University for their assistance on XPS.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Author Contributions**

Y.J.Z. and Z.Y.X. contributed equally to this work. Y.J.Z., C.C., and S.L. conceived the idea and designed the experiments. Z.Y.X. conducted the theoretical calculations. S.T.X. and T.M. assisted with the figure production. D.P.Y., Y.X.K., and S.X.Z. helped with the experiments and results analysis. Y.J.Z., Z.Y.X., and S.L. wrote and edited the manuscript. C.C., S.L., and C.S.Z. supervised the whole project. All authors discussed the results and commented on the manuscript.

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>**Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

# **Keywords**

CO tolerance, directional electron transfer, hydrogen oxidation reaction, lattice match

> Received: May 13, 2025 Revised: June 28, 2025 Published online: July 14, 2025

- [1] Y. Hou, M. Qiu, M. G. Kim, P. Liu, G. Nam, T. Zhang, X. Zhuang, B. Yang, J. Cho, M. Chen, C. Yuan, L. Lei, X. Feng, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1392.
- [2] R. Mondal, R. Thimmappa, B. Nayak, A. Dewan, M. C. Devendrachari, Q. Chen, Z. Wen, M. O. Thotiyl, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 3860.
- [3] S.-Q. Wang, Z.-C. Yao, Z.-Q. Shi, X. Liu, T. Tang, H.-R. Pan, L. Zheng, Q. Zhang, D. Su, Z. Zhuang, L. Zhao, Q. An, J.-S. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2025**, *147*, 5398.
- [4] J. Lin, Z. Liu, H. Wu, Z. Wang, G. Wang, J. Bu, Y. Wang, P. Liu, J. Wang, J. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2025**, *8*, 338.
- [5] X. Chen, X. Li, Y. Peng, H. Yang, Y. Tong, M. S. Balogun, Y. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2416091.
- [6] Z.-H. Zhao, H. Wang, J. Li, X. Qiao, Z. Liu, Z. Ren, M. Yuan, J. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 29441.
- [7] H.-Y. Shi, Y.-X. Chen, M.-H. Ji, Q.-Q. Zhou, K.-X. Li, H.-L. Wang, R. Chen, X.-M. Lin, C.-Z. Lu, *Chem. Synth.* **2024**, *4*, 45.
- [8] K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. M. Bao, B. A. Xie, B. W. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. H. Fan, H. Z. Wang, Z. J. Hou, S. Huo, N. P. Brandon, Y. Yin, M. D. Guiver, *Nature* **2021**, *595*, 361.
- [9] W. Ni, T. Wang, F. Heroguel, A. Krammer, S. Lee, L. Yao, A. Schueler, J. S. Luterbacher, Y. Yan, X. Hu, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 804.
- [10] Q. Hu, Z. Zhang, D. He, J. Wu, J. Ding, Q. Chen, X. Jiao, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 16950.
- [11] L. Zeng, Z. Zhao, F. Lv, Z. Xia, S.-Y. Lu, J. Li, K. Sun, K. Wang, Y. Sun, Q. Huang, Y. Chen, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3822.
- [12] Y. Wang, C. Chen, X. Xiong, S. A. Skaanvik, Y. Zhang, E. D. Bojesen, Z. Wang, W. Liu, M. Dong, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 17032.
- [13] L. Zhang, R. Bai, J. Lin, J. Bu, Z. Liu, S. An, Z. Wei, J. Zhang, *Nat. Chem.* **2024**, *16*, 893.
- [14] F. Lin, H. Luo, L. Li, F. Lv, Y. Chen, Q. Zhang, X. Han, D. Wang, M. Li, Y. Luo, K. Wang, L. Gu, Q. Wang, X. Zhao, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Nat. Synth.* **2024**, *4*, 399.
- [15] L. Fan, Y. Ji, G. Wang, J. Chen, K. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Wen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7224.
- [16] J. Zhang, L. Qu, G. Shi, J. Liu, J. Chen, L. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2230.
- [17] Q. Wang, H. Wang, H. Cao, C.-W. Tung, W. Liu, S.-F. Hung, W. Wang, C. Zhu, Z. Zhang, W. Cai, Y. Cheng, H. B. Tao, H. M. Chen, Y.-G. Wang, Y. Li, H. B. Yang, Y. Huang, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 916.
- [18] V. Fourmond, N. Plumere, C. Leger, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2021**, *5*, 348.
- [19] S. Hardt, S. Stapf, D. T. Filmon, J. A. Birrell, O. Ruediger, V. Fourmond, C. Leger, N. Plumere, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 251.
- [20] X. F. Lu, L. Yu, X. W. Lou, *Sci. Adv.* **2019**, *5*, aav6009.
- [21] J. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 4449.
- [22] T. Tang, X. Liu, X. Luo, Z. Xue, H. Pan, J. Fu, Z. Yao, Z. Jiang, Z. Lyu, L. Zheng, D. Su, J. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 13805.

- [23] D. G. Blackmond, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2009**, *48*, 2648.
- [24] X. Zhang, H. Zhang, Z. Chen, X. Chen, J. Wang, S. Wei, S. Liu, Z. Wang, F. Dai, M. Wang, X. Lu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *35*, 2418940.
- [25] T. Liu, Y. Chen, Y. Hao, J. Wu, R. Wang, L. Gu, X. Yang, Q. Yang, C. Lian, H. Liu, M. Gong, *Chem* **2022**, *8*, 2700.
- [26] M. Sheng, B. Jiang, B. Wu, F. Liao, X. Fan, H. Lin, Y. Li, Y. Lifshitz, S.-T. Lee, M. Shao, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 2786.
- [27] M. Li, Z. Xie, X. Zheng, L. Li, J. Li, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14932.
- [28] H. Lin, P. Liu, H. Yang, *Chem. Synth.* **2024**, *5*, 15.
- [29] C. Yang, L. Wang, P. Yin, J. Liu, M. Chen, Q. Yan, Z. Wang, S. Xu, S. Chu, C. Cui, H. Ju, J. Zhu, Y. Lin, J. Shui, H. Liang, *Science* **2021**, *374*, 459.
- [30] H. Pan, Z. Shi, X. Liu, S. Jin, J. Fu, L. Ding, S. Wang, J. Li, L. Zhang, D. Su, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202409763.
- [31] W. H. Lee, Y.-J. Ko, J. H. Kim, C. H. Choi, K. H. Chae, H. Kim, Y. J. Hwang, B. K. Min, P. Strasser, H.-S. Oh, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4271.
- [32] X. Mu, S. Liu, L. Chen, S. Mu, *Small Struct.* **2023**, *4*, 2200281.
- [33] J. Qi, Y.-P. Lin, D. Chen, T. Zhou, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8917.
- [34] B. Zhang, G. Zhao, B. Zhang, L. Xia, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, M. Gao, W. Sun, H. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105400.
- [35] C.-A. Zhou, K. Ma, Z. Zhuang, M. Ran, G. Shu, C. Wang, L. Song, L. Zheng, H. Yue, D. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 21453.
- [36] J. Bu, Z. Liu, W. Ma, L. Zhang, T. Wang, H. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Feng, J. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 557.
- [37] Y. Zhang, H. J. C. S. Liang, *Chem. Synth.* **2024**, *4*, 39.
- [38] Z. Liu, X. Zhang, H. Song, Y. Yang, Y. Zheng, B. Gao, J. Fu, P. K. Chu, K. Huo, *ChemCatChem* **2020**, *12*, 2962.
- [39] D. Liu, Z. Luo, B. Zhang, G. Zhao, W. Guo, J. Chen, M. Gao, Y. Liu, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2202913.
- [40] Y. Hou, T. Shen, K. Hu, X. Wang, Q. Zheng, J. Le, J. Dong, J. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 2402496.
- [41] R. Yang, Y. Fan, J. Hu, Z. Chen, H. S. Shin, D. Voiry, Q. Wang, Q. Lu, J. C. Yu, Z. Zeng, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2023**, *52*, 7687.
- [42] D. Strmcnik, M. Uchimura, C. Wang, R. Subbaraman, N. Danilovic, D. van der Vliet, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 300.
- [43] J. Wang, S.-Q. Wang, *Surf. Sci.* **2014**, *630*, 216.
- [44] J. Liu, J. Zhang, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 2123.
- [45] M. Mushtaq, Z. Zhu, H. Yang, Z. Khanam, Y.-w. Hu, S. Mathi, Z. Wang, M. S. Balogun, Y. Huang, *Small* **2025**, *21*, 2409418.
- [46] X. Yang, J. Nash, J. Anibal, M. Dunwell, S. Kattel, E. Stavitski, K. Attenkofer, J. G. Chen, Y. Yan, B. Xu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 13387.
- [47] C. Wang, W. Lu, Q. Lai, P. Xu, H. Zhang, X. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1904690.
- [48] R. Bai, Z.-H. Zhao, M. Liu, W. Ma, J. Lin, S. An, J. He, Z. Liu, L. Zhang, H. Mei, J. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2025**, *147*, 6880.
- [49] Y. Zheng, W. Geng, S. Xiao, T. Ma, C. Cheng, Y. Liao, Z. Zeng, S. Li, C. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 2406427.
- [50] H. Fei, J. Dong, D. Chen, T. Hu, X. Duan, I. Shakir, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, 5207.
- [51] J. J. Rehr, R. C. Albers, *Rev. Mod. Phys.* **2000**, *72*, 621.
- [52] J. Yang, W.-H. Li, S. Tan, K. Xu, Y. Wang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19085.
- [53] A. Salah, L. Zhang, H. Tan, F. Yu, Z. Lang, N. Al-Ansi, Y. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200332.
- [54] Y. Wang, D. Chen, J. Zhang, M. S. Balogun, P. Wang, Y. Tong, Y. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2112738.
- [55] Q. Wang, X. Huang, Z. L. Zhao, M. Wang, B. Xiang, J. Li, Z. Feng, H. Xu, M. Gu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 7425.
- [56] J. Y. Chen, X. Y. Peng, Z. J. Li, B. Yang, Q. H. Zhang, J. G. Lu, L. C. Lei, Y. Hou, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *2409106*, 2409106.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 39, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202508994 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [57] C. Dong, R. Mu, R. Li, J. Wang, T. Song, Z. Qu, Q. Fu, X. Bao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17056.
- [58] D. E. Ramaker, C. Roth, *ChemElectroChem* **2015**, *2*, 1582.
- [59] S. Lv, X. Liu, X. Shen, *Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *718*, 122015.
- [60] W. Shao, Z. Xing, X. Xu, D. Ye, R. Yan, T. Ma, Y. Wang, Z. Zeng, B. Yin, C. Cheng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 4c08110.
- [61] R.-L. Wei, Y. Liu, Z. Chen, W. Jia, Y. Yang, W. Cai, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2021**, *896*, 115254.
- [62] H. Luo, K. Wang, F. Lin, F. Lv, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, D. Wang, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211854.
- [63] H. Wang, H. D. Abruna, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 6807.
- [64] L. Shen, B. Lu, Y. Li, J. Liu, Z. Huangfu, H. Peng, J. Ye, X. Qu, J. Zhang, G. Li, W. Cai, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 22397.
- [65] Y. Wang, Y. Yang, F. Gao, X. Zhang, L. Zhu, H. Yan, P. Yang, M. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 2407613.
- [66] R. Zhao, L. Li, Q. Wu, W. Luo, Q. Zhang, C. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 8367.