---
source: Acharya 等 - 2025 - Synergistic Inclusion of Reaction Activator and Reaction Accelerator to Ni‐MOF Toward Extra‐Ordinary.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 45.305s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:35:58.207661Z
---

# **Synergistic Inclusion of Reaction Activator and Reaction Accelerator to Ni-MOF Toward Extra-Ordinary Performance of Urea Oxidation Reaction**

*Animesh Acharya, Koustav Mandal, Neetu Kumari, and Kuntal Chatterjee\**

**Recently electrochemical urea oxidation reaction (UOR) has emerged as the technology of demand for commercialization of urea-based energy conversion. However, the nascent idea is limited by the energy burden of threshold voltage and the sluggish reaction kinetics involving a six-electron transfer mechanism. Herein, for the first time, the engineering of electrocatalysts are proposed with simultaneous inclusion of UOR activator and UOR accelerator. Nitrogen-doped carbon-decorated Ni-based Metal Organic Framework (MOF) has been synthesized as the base catalyst material. MoO2 and rGO with varied loading have been attached to the MOF to get the desired MoO2/Ni-MOF/rGO heterostructure incorporating defects and crystal strain within the materials. Investigations reveal that the invoked lattice strain and atomic defects promote plenteous Ni3<sup>+</sup> active sites. The optimized sample demonstrates extraordinary performance of UOR having the potential value as low as 1.32 V versus RHE to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and the tafel slope is only 31 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> reflecting very fast reaction kinetics. Here MoO2 plays the role of UOR activator whereas optimized loading of rGO proliferates the reaction speed. This work, experimentally and theoretically, presents a new insight to enhance electrocatalytic urea oxidation reaction opening an avenue of urea-based energy-harvesting technology.**

#### **1. Introduction**

To address the booming global energy demand, coupled with the impending crisis of dwindling fossil fuel hydrogen has already proven to be the forerunner due to its versatility, high energy density, and environmentally benign nature, provided we can prevail over several hurdles that come with its production, distribution and utilization.[\[1–3\]](#page-11-0) For decades researchers have been splitting their hair to find an efficient way to dissociate water for hydrogen

A. Acharya, K. Mandal, K. Chatterjee Department of Physics Vidyasagar University Midnapore, West Bengal 721102, India E-mail: [kuntal@mail.vidyasagar.ac.in](mailto:kuntal@mail.vidyasagar.ac.in)

N. Kumari Department of Chemical Engineering MNIT

Jaipur, Rajasthan 302017, India

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202407377>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202407377**

production but the intrinsic thermodynamic limitation of Oxygen Evolution Reaction (OER) has always triumphed over all their work.[\[4–6\]](#page-11-0) One intriguing alternative that has been gaining attention very recently due to its much lower decomposition voltage (0.37 V vs RHE compared to 1.23 V vs RHE for OER)[\[7,8\]](#page-12-0) which can drive the production cost of hydrogen down by up to 93%,[\[9\]](#page-12-0) is Urea Oxidation Reaction (UOR).

If we tap into the energy potential of Urea, it contains 6.7 wt%[\[10\]](#page-12-0) of hydrogen, has an energy density of 15.66 MJ kg<sup>−</sup>1, [\[11\]](#page-12-0) and costs only 0.26 USD per kg[\[12\]](#page-12-0) which makes it extremely alluring for hydrogen production via Urea Electrolysis (UE) or Direct Urea Fuel Cell (DUFC). Urea is also an earth-abundant material that can be found in the wastewater of factories and toilets, human and animal urines, agricultural wastes, etc.,[\[13,14\]](#page-12-0) which is nontoxic in its natural form but when left untreated, gradually decomposes to ammonia, intoxicating the surroundings. So, using this urea-rich wastewater, UOR not only produces hydrogen at an affordable cost

but also offers the benefit of wastewater treatment, simultaneously addressing two crucial challenges of modern society.[\[15,16\]](#page-12-0)

Anode: 
$$CO(NH_2)_2 + 6OH^- \rightarrow N_2 + 5H_2O + CO_{2(g)} + 6e^- E0$$
  
= -0.46 V (1)

Cathode: 
$$6H_2O + 6e^- \rightarrow 3H_2 + 6OH^- E0 = -0.83 \text{ V}$$
 (2)

Overall: 
$$CO(NH_2)_2 + H_2O \rightarrow N_2 + 3H_2 + CO_2$$
 Ecell  
= 0.37 V (3)

However, UOR comes with its own set of caveats owing to its lethargic six-electron transfer pathway necessitating highperformance catalysts that can power through the torpid kinetics of the reaction. The reactions associated with a UE cell are Urea Oxidation (UO) at the Anode and Hydrogen Evolution (HER) at the cathode.

While UOR research in Neutral[\[17\]](#page-12-0) and Acidic[\[18,19\]](#page-12-0) mediums has been stuttering due to major hurdles like catalyst poisoning, corrosive nature toward non-noble metal catalysts enforcing the use of noble metal catalysts such as Ru, Ti, Pt,[\[18,20–22\]](#page-12-0) reduced mass transport to the electrode due to the repulsion of positively charged protonated urea molecules from the anode (in acidic medium), studies under Alkaline Condition have been flourishing on account of its high ionic conductivity, charge neutrality of urea and chemical stability of transition metals in high pH.[\[23,24\]](#page-12-0) As a consequence, very recently there has been a surge in advancements for catalysts and devices that prioritize anodic urea electro-oxidation.[\[25\]](#page-12-0) The majority of the study focuses on nickel-based catalysts in an alkaline medium, likely inspired by the biomimetic approach, mirroring the active sites of urease enzymes that utilize Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> centers bridged by hydroxide groups.[\[26,27\]](#page-12-0) UOR with Ni-based catalysts involves a crucial interplay between the catalyst's surface transformation into active NiOOH sites and the subsequent decomposition pathway of urea molecules. To elucidate the UOR mechanism, several in-situ characterization techniques such as Raman Spectroscopy,[\[28\]](#page-12-0) Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR),[\[29\]](#page-12-0) X-ray diffraction (XRD),[\[30\]](#page-12-0) Xray Absorption Spectroscopy (XAS),[\[29\]](#page-12-0) Differential Electrochemical Mass Spectrometry (DEMS)[\[31\]](#page-12-0) have been adopted, providing evidence that NiOOH plays a central role, either directly facilitating urea's reaction with electrolyte OH<sup>−</sup> (Direct Mechanism)[\[16\]](#page-12-0) or indirectly oxidizing urea while being reduced itself (Indirect Mechanism/Catalyst Regeneration Mechanism).[\[30,32\]](#page-12-0) The corresponding reactions are:

Oxidation of Ni : *Ni*(*OH*)2(*s*) + *OH*<sup>−</sup> ⇌ *NiOOH*(*s*) + *H*2*O* + *e* <sup>−</sup>(4)

Direct Mechanism : 
$$CO(NH_2)_{2(aq)} + 6OH^{-} \xrightarrow{NiOOH} N_{2(g)} + 5H_2O_{(l)} + CO_{2(g)} + 6e^{-}$$
 (5)

Indirect Mechanism : 
$$6NiOOH_{(s)} + CO(NH_2)_{2(aq)} + H_2O_{(l)}$$
  
 $\rightarrow 6Ni(OH)_{2(s)} + N_{2(g)} + CO_{2(g)}$  (6)

So, designing efficient Ni-based catalysts hinges on maximizing NiOOH formation to steer urea decomposition toward the ideal N─N coupling pathway[\[33\]](#page-12-0) among three possible pathways that generate N2 and CO2, avoiding the undesired C─N cleavage pathway[\[34\]](#page-12-0) (as it produces harmful byproducts like NO2) as hypothesized by Daramola et al. usingdensity functional theory (DFT) calculations.[\[35\]](#page-12-0)

To optimize Ni-based catalysts for UOR, researchers employ a multi-pronged strategy. Engineering of nanostructures in different forms like nanowires,[\[36\]](#page-12-0) ribbons,[\[37\]](#page-12-0) nanotubes,[\[38\]](#page-12-0) mesoporous nanosheets,[\[39\]](#page-12-0) and Metal-Organic Frameworks (MOFs)[\[40,41\]](#page-12-0) promotes active site exposure. Particularly porous structures facilitate CO2 diffusion and provide high Electrochemically Active Surface Area (ECSA) enhancing catalystelectrolyte contact.[\[36–39,41\]](#page-12-0) Strategic doping with transition metals (Co,[\[42\]](#page-12-0) Mo,[\[43\]](#page-12-0) Zn,[\[44\]](#page-12-0) V)[\[45\]](#page-12-0) or non-metals (Sulphides,[\[46\]](#page-12-0) Phosphides,[\[47\]](#page-12-0) Selenides)[\[48\]](#page-12-0) enriches the electronic structure, aiding Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> oxidation,[\[43,49\]](#page-12-0) a crucial surface transformation step. Furthermore, composite catalysts utilizing carbon nano tubes (CNTs),[\[50\]](#page-12-0) nickel foam (NF),[\[51\]](#page-12-0) graphene,[\[52\]](#page-12-0) or carbon fiber clothes (CFCs)[\[53\]](#page-12-0) improve surface area, mechanical/electrical properties, and electron transfer, with some additional synergistic effect between catalyst and support material. Despite the promises of these multifaceted approaches, significant challenges still remain. Such as metal dopants, while enhancing oxidation state, face limitations due to strong reactantintermediate interactions.[\[54\]](#page-12-0) MOFs, though versatile, require further optimization as not all MOF-derived materials exhibit good catalytic activity, entailing modulation of their electronic structure through precursor doping[\[55\]](#page-12-0) or post-synthesis modifications with support materials.[\[56\]](#page-12-0) Addressing these two-fold hiccups, minimization of reaction threshold energy and acceleration of reaction kinetics is crucial for unlocking the full potential of Nibased UOR catalysts. Ni-based MOF structure has been explored in different aspects to enhance UOR activity. Zhu et al. demonstrated that the ultrathin nanosheet of Ni-MOF excels in UOR[\[57\]](#page-12-0) whereas Shulan Ma reported the UOR activity dependency on the structural variation of Ni-MOF.[\[58\]](#page-12-0) Chunxian Guo et al., in their review work,[\[59\]](#page-12-0) exclusively focused on pristine 2D MOF systems for electrocatalytic UOR activity. However, the performance enhancement of electrocatalyst Ni-MOF by reducing the onset potential value and increasing the reaction kinetics by two separate entities has never been conceived before.

To prevail over this task here we have, for the first time, introduced the idea of boosting the Ni-MOF performance by simultaneous inclusion of reaction activator (MoO2) and reaction accelerator (rGO).

Inspired by the enhanced HER activity of oxidized Mo species on the electrocatalytically active Ni─Mo system[\[60\]](#page-12-0) and Ni─Mo─N nanoparticles decorated rGO system[\[61\]](#page-12-0) and also encouraged by the success of Ni/MOF/rGO system in OER activity[[62\]](#page-12-0) our elemental choice focused on Ni-MOF, rGO and Mo source for our UOR study.

A nitrogen-rich Ni-MOF constructed from 2-methylimidazole is optimized with reduced graphene oxide (rGO) to enhance electron transfer and to expose active sites due to its high ECSA thereby performing the duty of reaction accelerator. The composite is further doped with MoO2 to tackle the high UOR overpotential thereby acting as a fruitful reaction activator. Characterization techniques like XRD, Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Raman, and Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) confirm the material's structure and elemental composition. The catalyst exhibits exceptional UOR performance, achieving a remarkable highest current density of over 260 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1.9 V while achieving 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at a low potential of 1.32 V (1 m KOH, 0.33 m urea). This is complemented by a very low Tafel slope of 31 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, signifying a more than 5 times faster reaction rate than its OER counterpart. MoO2 modifies the local electron density of Ni, facilitating NiOOH formation at a lower potential[\[44\]](#page-12-0) and rGO's excellent conductivity promotes efficient charge transfer (evident by low polarization resistance of 4.6 Ohm) and exposes more active sites, boosting the overall catalytic activity. Theoretically, the structurefunction correlation has been assessed based on density function theory which shows the combination of Ni-MOF and rGO enhances the catalytic proficiency. This work paves the way for designing high-performance MOF-derived catalysts through a

**Scheme 1.** Schematic diagram of the (a) synthesis procedure, and b) NMR formation.

simple one-step hydrothermal method to facilitate large-scale production for practical applications.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

The synthesis method of NMR50 (Nickel MOF + MoO2 + 50 mg rGO) has been illustrated in **Scheme 1**, the full experimental details are elaborated in supporting information. In short, Nickel Nitrate, Sodium Molybdate, and GO were dispersed in a solution and stirred for 4 h, then Hydrazine hydrate was added and the whole mixture was transferred to a Teflon-lined autoclave. After keeping it at 150 °C for 24 h, the powder was collected after centrifugation and annealed at 700 °C under an inert atmosphere to get the final sample. Depending upon the variation of rGO, the catalysts were named NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 where N stands for Nickel MOF, M stands for MoO2, R stands for rGO and the numbers 10, 30, and 50 indicate the weight (in mg) of GO used to synthesize the catalyst. To understand the underlying mechanism, the pristine Nickel MOF (Ni-MOF), Nickel MOF with 30 mg rGO (NR30), and NMR70 were also studied.

The morphologies of the as-prepared samples were observed using a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). **Figure [1](#page-3-0)**a shows

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 1. SEM images of a) Ni-MOF, b) NR30, c) NMR10, d) NMR30, e) NMR50.

the morphology of pristine Ni-MOF before the introduction of Mo or rGO. As expected, the individual MOF units have agglomerated to form a nano-cluster of MOFs and the structure effectively reduces the exposed surface area essential for catalytic activity. When rGO is introduced into the sample, it inhibits the agglomeration, and relatively bigger and separate units of MOFs emerge. The morphology of Ni-MOF and 30 mg rGO (NR30) in Figure 1b showcases this beautifully as the rGO intrudes in between the individual MOF structures and separates them. Figures 1c-e shows the morphology of NMR10, NMR30 and NMR50 respectively. The introduction of MoO2 and the subsequent loading of rGO changes the shape of the nano-structures from a somewhat rounded shape to a sharper figure with multiple edges. It is also apparent from Figures 1c-e that as the amount of rGO increases in the sample, the particle size decreases due to the fragmentation of MOF crystallites. This is also supported by the XRD analysis discussed later. However, this fragmentation procedure reaches its limit with  $\approx$ 50 mg rGO, as increasing it further doesn't result in smaller crystallite. The morphology of NMR70 (Figure S1, Supporting Information) showcases this phenomenon.

The structural footprints of the as-prepared catalysts were comprehensively investigated via X-ray diffraction (XRD). The XRD patterns of pristine Ni-MOF and the rGO amount varied  $MoO_2$  and Ni-MOF composites NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 are shown in **Figure 2a**. The Ni-MOF has distinct cubic metallic Nickel phases at 2Theta values of 44.5°, 51.8° and 76.4° which can be correlated to the (111), (200), and (220) planes respectively [PDF # 01-087-0712]. All these Nickel phases are also present in the diffraction pattern obtained from NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 with the monoclinic  $MoO_2$  planes (-111), (111), (021), (-312), (013), (-402), (-413), (231) which are found at 26°, 36.8°, 41.6°, 53.5°, 60.6°, 66.7°, 73.3°, 78.5° respectively [PDF # 00-032-0671]. In the NMR composites, the weak impression of the (002) plane of very thin rGO sheets at  $\approx$ 26° is superseded by the strong crystalline peak of the  $MoO_2$  plane. A decreasing trend in

the diffracted crystallographic intensity can be seen in the figure with increasing rGO content in the sample. From Figure 2c we can see the peak position of the Nickel-(111) plane shifts 0.18° from Ni-MOF to NMR10, a considerable shift which indicates that the plane has shrunk due to the successful integration of Mo and rGO into the Ni-MOF. When the rGO weight percentage is further increased we can see a smaller shift of 0.04° with each iteration. Apart from the decreasing peak intensity, a noticeable peak broadening can also be observed with rGO variation, indicating a change in crystallite size or micro-strain in the crystal structure. To study this further the Williamson-Hall plot was derived from the diffraction data of NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50. The technique used to derive the W-H plot is discussed in the Supporting Information. The W–H equation gives us a fairly precise estimation of crystallite size and micro-strain in the crystal structure by considering peak width as a function of  $2\theta$ .<sup>[63]</sup> If we plot  $\beta_{sample} \cos\theta$  versus  $4 \sin\theta$  which is known as the W-H plot, we can calculate the micro-strain directly from the slope, and crystallite size can be calculated from the intercept of the straight line. Figure 2b shows the W-H plot of NMR10, NMR30 and NMR50. The crystallite size of NMR10 is found to be  $\approx$ 111.4 nm, NMR30 to be 65.5 nm, and NMR50 to be 57.7 nm, thus clearly indicating a reduction of crystallite sizes with increasing rGO amount in the sample. This is visibly in line with the SEM images. However, the micro-strain values in radians as calculated for NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 are 7.0, 7.43, and 7.81 respectively (Figure 2d), which increases with rGO amount. This can be attributed to the fact that as rGO increases, stacking fault is introduced in the crystal structure, which can create dislocations and non-uniform lattice distortions in d-spacing. The dislocation density which is the measure of dislocation lines per unit volume of the crystal, is calculated from the crystallite sizes  $\frac{1}{r^2}$ ] are found to be 0.8, 2.3, 3.0 (nm<sup>-2</sup>) for NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 respectively (Figure 2e). The increasing dislocations distort the crystal lattice resulting in nonuniform d-spacing, causing elastic stress around the dislocation line and thereby

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD pattern of Ni-MOF, NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50, b) W–H plot derived from the XRD data, c) Peak shifting, Intensity weakening and peak broadening of Ni (111) plane with increasing rGO content, d) Micro-strain and Crystallinity Index plotted against rGO content, e) Crystallite size and Dislocation Density with rGO content.

increasing strain energy. Grain surfaces and interfaces in a nanomaterial result in residual stress leading to an increase in microstrain. The decreasing crystallite size can increase the number of grains in the crystal structure and hence grain boundaries, thereby contributing to the micro-strain. The crystallinity index measured from the XRD data shows that crystallinity decreases with increasing rGO. While NMR10 is found to be 80.7% crystalline, NMR30 decreases to 77.9% and NMR50 decreases further to 75.1% (Figure 2d). As amorphicity increases, stacking fault and line fault increase, the number of crystal grains increases, and stress in the grain boundaries increases, all contributing to higher strain energy and smaller crystallite size and thereby increasing the number of catalytically active sites of the material. All this data can be further fortified by the TEM analysis explained below.

The precise formation of the crystal structure of NMR50 is further confirmed by Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM). The corresponding SAED pattern and Elemental Mapping were used to determine the crystal planes and distribution of the elements. Figures S2a–c (Supporting Information) shows the TEM images of Ni-MOF, NR30, and NMR50 respectively. Agglomeration of the individual MOF units is clear from the TEM image. It is also evident from Figure S2b (Supporting Information) that the thin layer of rGO is lying around the separate units of MOF structures. Inhibition of cluster formation due to the insertion of rGO is pretty clear. In the case of the NMR50 sample, the main catalyst candidate of the study, it is exquisitely seen that the very small and dense unit of MoO2-Ni-MOF structure is intermittently anchored in the matrix of rGO forming an ideal microstructure for synergistic surface activity. Now to look into the details, an HRTEM study has been carried out and images in **Figure [3](#page-5-0)**a show two sets of lattice planes of MoO2, the (111) plane and the (−101) plane with interplanar spacing of 2.4 and 4.8 Å respectively[\[64\]](#page-12-0) which is completely in line with our XRD findings where the (111) plane of MoO2 was found to be at 2 value of 36.8°. The JCPDS PDF 00-032-0671 confirms the corresponding d spacing of the (111) and (−101) planes to be 2.4 and 4.8 Å. Figure [3a](#page-5-0) also contains the (002) plane of rGO with an interplanar spacing (d) of 3.7 Å[\[65\]](#page-12-0) and Figure [3b](#page-5-0) shows the (111) plane of metallic Nickel with d-value 2.06 Å,[\[40\]](#page-12-0) which is also in agreement with the XRD dominant plane found at an angle of 44.5°. Focusing the atomic fringe of all the three constituent compounds in the same HRTEM was not so good and that is the reason that Ni plane is shown in a separate image. The corresponding FFT and Inverse FFT images are shown in the inset of Figures [3a,b](#page-5-0) which will be discussed later. The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure [3c\)](#page-5-0) shows multiple sets of concentric rings specifying the polycrystalline nature of the material and confirming the presence of all three constituent compounds. The diffraction rings from inside to outside can be indexed as the (002) plane of rGO (d = 3.7 Å), (111) plane of MoO2 (d = 2.4 Å), (210) plane of MoO2 (d = 2.2 Å), (200) plane of Nickel (d = 1.7 Å), (301) and (112) planes of MoO2 (d = 1.4, 1.3 Å), (220) and (311) plane of Ni (d = 1.2, 1.1 Å), which are all in line with the XRD and HRTEM data. The elemental mapping of carbon (Figure [3e\)](#page-5-0) exhibits a convincing presence as both the MOF and rGO are made

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a,b) HRTEM images of NMR50, the insets are FFT and Inverse FFT of the corresponding images, c) SAED pattern of NMR50, d–i) Elemental mapping of NMR50.

of carbon framework. Ni and Mo are present in almost equal quantities (Figures 3f,g) as their precursors were used in a 1:1 molar ratio during the synthesis process. They are also dispersed identically and uniformly corroborating the successful formation of the heterostructure. Oxygen is present in line with Mo validating the formation of Mo─O bonding and a slight presence of Nitrogen can be seen as N is an integral part of the organic framework (2-methylimidazole). The EDX result shown in Figure S2d (Supporting Information) further confirms the successful integration of all the elements as per expectation. The chemical composition is further solidified in the XPS analysis which will be discussed shortly.

To closely study the structural characteristics of NMR50, a fast Fourier transformation (FFT) is taken in Figure 3a,b (**Figures 4**[a,c\)](#page-6-0) focusing on the different interfaces of the heterostructure. Selecting a set of differently oriented diffraction spots and masking them to denoise the image and thereby applying Inverse FFT we can faithfully recreate a filteredout image of the fringe patterns in real space (Figures [4b,d\)](#page-6-0). The vague atomic structure of two heterogeneous crystal interfaces, caused by strain, has been made clear by this filtering technique. We can separate the grain boundaries of rGO and MoO2 (dashed yellow lines), rGO and Ni (dashed orange lines) and MoO2 and Ni (dashed green lines), where the stress generated from the lattice mismatch of the (002) plane of rGO and (111) plains of MoO2 and Nickel respectively (Figures [4b,d\)](#page-6-0), create dislocation lines and non-uniform d-spacing in the crystal structure increasing the strain energy. As crystallite size decreases with the increasing loading of rGO, more smaller crystal grains will be created increasing the number of hetero-interfaces. More interfaces will create more fault lines and thereby more catalytically active edge sites. These images (Figures [4b,d\)](#page-6-0) are the perfect visual representation of the XRD analysis we did earlier. Our efforts to include two different materials in the Ni-MOF toward meticulous incorporation of defect-generated catalytically active sites have been well supported by both XRD and HRTEM analysis.

The chemical state of the elements of NMR50 was probed by X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (**Figures [5](#page-6-0)**). The survey scan reveals the presence of all the compounding elements C, N, Ni, Mo, and O (Figures [5a\)](#page-6-0). The quantitative analysis of NMR30 and NMR 50 has been shown in Figures S3a,b (Supporting Information) respectively. The increase of carbon in the atomic percentage is visible from the quantization procedure (from ≈53% to almost 65%). As a result, the Percentage of other components such as Ni and Mo decreases with increasing rGO amount. The overall structure of spectra remains unchanged indicating no further chemical changes. The C 1s spectra can be deconvoluted into five peaks (Figures [5b\)](#page-6-0) among which the sp2 hybridized graphitic C═C at 284.5 eV and sp3 hybridized C─C at 284.9 eV dominates the curve depicting a large presence of rGO and the organic framework of nickel. The three other peaks centered at 286.4, 288.1, and 289.5 eV correspond to the C─OH/C─O─C/C─N, C═O/C═N, O─C═O groups respectively[\[66\]](#page-12-0) which can be attributed to rGO, unreduced graphene oxide, and the C─N and C═N bond present on the organic framework (2-methylimidazole). This is further validated by the N 1s spectra (Figures [5c\)](#page-6-0) where the pyridinic, pyrrolic, and graphitic N found at 398.3, 398.6, and 400.8 eV[\[67\]](#page-12-0) contribute most to the curve fitting. The peak found at 395.7 eV of the N 1s spectra could have been attributed to the N─Ni bond[\[68\]](#page-12-0) but it also overlaps with the Mo 3p

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) FFT and b) Inverse FFT transformation of Figure [3a, c\)](#page-5-0) FFT and d) Inverse FFT of Figure S2e (Supporting Information).

**Figure 5.** XPS spectra of NMR50 a) Survey scan, b) C 1s, c) N 1s, d) Mo 3d, e) O 1s, f) Ni 2p.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a)Raman spectra of NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50, b) Deconvoluted Raman spectra of NMR50 showcasing the D, G, D\*, D" and D' band, c) Variation of 1/Crystallite size with ID/IG ratio which is fitted with a straight line according to the Tuinstra–Koenig model.

spectra. So, we can assume both of them contribute to the peak formation. The Mo 3d spectrum (Figures [5d\)](#page-6-0) is deconvoluted into multiple sets of doublets [Mo 3d3/2 and Mo 3d5/2] which can be correlated to Mo<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, Mo5<sup>+</sup>, and Mo6<sup>+</sup> which is consistent with the chemical structure of MoO2 from other studies.[\[69,70\]](#page-12-0) The Mo6<sup>+</sup> and Mo5<sup>+</sup> are identified by a single set of doublets each, situated at 235.8 eV (3d3/2) and 232.7 eV (3d5/2) for Mo6<sup>+</sup>, 234.5 eV (3d3/2) and 231.4 eV (3d5/2) for Mo5<sup>+</sup>. Whereas Mo<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> is deconvoluted into four sets of doublets, the most dominant ones are located at 233.3 eV (3d3/2) and 230.2 eV (3d5/2). The energy separation between the two peaks of each doublet is 3.1 eV which holds for Mo 3d stage. This specific structure of MoO2 can be linked to the reduced MoO2 structure, similar to one reported by Fairley et al[\[69\]](#page-12-0) where MoO2 was fabricated by reducing MoO3 at a temperature above 600 °C. As our sample was calcinated at 700 °C at the final step, it is safe to assume that after the hydrothermal process, the compound was in MoO3 form, which then got reduced to MoO2 during annealing. The O1s spectrum (Figures [5e\)](#page-6-0) is divided into four peaks positioned at 529.8, 530.4, 531.3, and 532.8 eV which can be attributed to Ni─O, Mo─O, ─OH, and chemisorbed oxygen respectively.[[70,71\]](#page-12-0) This indicates that besides Molybdenum, Nickel also formed a bit of oxide at the surface level. A hint of NiO could also be found from the Ni 2p spectra (Figures [5f\)](#page-6-0) by the peak situated at 852.4 eV. The rest of the Ni 2p peaks are aggregated by two sets of typical doublets corresponding to the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> state, situated at 853.8(2p3/2), 871.4(2p1/2) and 855.6(2p3/2), 873.5 (2p1/2) eV respectively. The satellite peaks are located at 860.9 and 879.4 eV.[\[72\]](#page-12-0) A significant shift in the binding energy level of Ni2<sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> form can be seen implying a drastic modification in the electronic structure of Ni due to the presence of Mo in the MOF. This lowers the energy required for nickel oxidation and hence increases the likelihood of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> transitioning to the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> state, which is the active state for the urea oxidation reaction. This can cater to our idea of inclusion of reaction activator to Ni-MOF toward lowering the effective overpotential.

By correlating the first-order Raman spectra of NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 we can get further insight into their structural development process. **Figure 6**a displays the typical D and G bands of carbon located at around ≈1350 and ≈1580 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for each sample. The D band represents the A1g mode of the sp2 carbon ring that typically indicates a high degree of disorder, often near defects or edge planes. That means a higher D value can improve the catalytic activity of a material. The G band corresponds to the E2g stretching mode of the sp2 ring and is the primary band observed in graphite and graphene. Considering the broadening and overlap of spectral bands, the Raman band intensity ratio (ID/IG) often yields ambiguous information about crystal order and defects in carbon materials. Therefore, we used the Lorentzian method to deconvolute all Raman peak sets. Deconvolution of the first-order Raman D and G bands resulted in five fitted curves within the 1200–1700 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> spectral range: D, G, D\*, D3 and D' band[\[73,74\]](#page-12-0) (Figure 6b). The D\* band typically generated by disordered graphitic lattices with sp3 orbitals, represents the oxygen content in the lattice. The high wavelength position and a small area under the curve of D\* in NMR50 indicate a low oxygen content in the carbon lattice, i.e., well-reduced graphene oxide. The D″ band corresponds to the amorphous phase of the material and is inversely proportional to its crystallinity. The D′ band located at ≈1606 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is linked to defect concentration in the crystal structure. A highly intense D′ band implies a defect-rich crystal lattice.[\[73\]](#page-12-0) The ID and IG values of NMR10, NMR30, and

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 7.** Electrochemical study of the synthesized catalysts in 1 m KOH with 0.33 m Urea a) LSV curves for UOR, b) Tafel slopes, c) Nyquist plots and its equivalent circuit, d) stability study of NMR50 after 10000 CV cycle.

NMR50 are calculated by considering the area under the curve of the D and G band due to their broad nature and are found to be 1.52, 1.79, and 1.89 respectively. ID/IG increases significantly from NMR10 to NMR50 suggesting an increase of disorder in the structure with increasing rGO amount. This is again in line with our XRD analysis. It can be further solidified with the Tuinstra– Koenig model[\[75\]](#page-13-0) which says that the D band is inversely proportional to the crystallite size and is caused by a breakdown of the k-selection rule. So, if we plot the inverse of the crystallite sizes (1/D) we got from the XRD results with the ID/IG values gathered from the Raman analysis, we should have a straight line. Figure [6c](#page-7-0) shows that we get a perfect straight line as predicted by Tuinstra and Koenig validating both the XRD and Raman analysis undeniably.

The porous structure of NMR50 was studied using the N2 sorption tests. The N2 adsorption–desorption isotherm in Figure S4a (Supporting Information) exhibits a steeper adsorption curve and a delayed decreasing desorption curve to form the loop. This specific type of shape can be identified as a H3 isotherm loop.[\[76\]](#page-13-0) This type of loop is observed in the mesoporous range and indicates that a wide distribution of pore sizes, with pores not being uniform or cylindrical is present in the sample. The H3 hysteresis loop is typically associated with materials that have slitshaped pores given by non-rigid aggregates of plate-like particles. H3 hysteresis loops usually have a high surface area and significant pore volume, which is quantified by the BJH method in Figure S4b (Supporting Information). The calculated surface area is found to be 17.4 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and the average pore volume is 0.036 cc g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with an average pore radius of 19.1 Å, which is very much conducive to the catalytic efficiency of the material by increasing the electrode–electrolyte contact and the electrochemical active surface area. Here it is worth noticing that the deliberate insertion of two different components, reaction activator and reaction accelerator, to the Ni-MOF synergistically holds a porous and surface-rich morphology which can facilitate our targeted UOR activity.

All the samples were put into rigorous testing to measure their ability to split urea-assisted alkaline (1 m KOH with 0.33 m Urea) water via a typical three-electrode system. The electrode preparation method and other technical aspects of the electrochemical measurements have been discussed in the supporting information. Before every measurement, a number of Cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles were taken to stabilize each electrode at a scan rate of 20 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. The Linear Sweep Voltammetry (LSV) curves taken in the anodic region of every catalyst have been shown in **Figure 7**a with the corresponding Tafel slopes taken at the onset region of the LSV curves shown in Figure 7b. The pristine Ni-MOF needs a potential of 1.47 V to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> which is not so bad but the associated Tafel slope (144 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) is the major concern. To improve that we introduced rGO in the Ni-MOF, and the NR30 (Ni-MOF with 30 mg rGO) sample showed a significant improvement in reaction kinetics, bringing the Tafel slope down to 82 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is almost half of Ni-MOF alone, implying a two times faster reaction rate. However, introducing rGO didn't improve the overpotential of the material. It took almost the same voltage (1.44 V) to reach the 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> threshold. To counter this, we added MoO2 in the mix as other studies[\[40\]](#page-12-0) suggested that introducing another metal or metal oxide can tune the electronic structure of Nickel favorably, which is evident by the performance of NMR30 (Ni-MOF+MoO2+30 mg rGO). The overpotential came down from 1.44 to 1.33 V So, it is very clear from these results that while rGO helps to boost **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

the reaction kinetics and thereby lowers the Tafel slope, MoO2 helps to reduce the overpotential of the Ni-MOF by tuning the electronic structure of Nickel in such a way that it requires less energy to get to Ni3<sup>+</sup> state, the active state for urea oxidation. We tried to tune the sample further for the best performance by varying the rGO amount in the sample. The potentials required for NMR10, NMR50, and NMR70 to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density are 1.36, 1.32, and 1.38 V respectively, and the corresponding Tafel slopes are 40, 31, and 77 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1. NMR50 comes out to be the best performer which is competitively better compared to the recent works in the field of UOR catalysts (Chart S1, Supporting Information). From the chart, it is quite obvious that the technical hitches are twofold: threshold potential and the Tafel value. In some systems like NiSAs-NC,[\[77\]](#page-13-0) NiMoO3S on Ni foam,[\[78\]](#page-13-0) NCMo-Ar,[\[79\]](#page-13-0) and Ni(OH)S[\[80\]](#page-13-0) the onset potential is very low, i.e., the reaction activation energy is reduced and in some other reports like Ni0.9Fe0.1O,[\[81\]](#page-13-0) NiSn-Sulphide[\[82\]](#page-13-0) Ni-Fe-F[\[83\]](#page-13-0) the tafel slope value is greatly reduced, i.e., the acceleration of reaction mechanism is high. Nevertheless, our present sample outperforms all such systems both in onset potential and tafel slope value. From the chart presentation, it is very evident that the NMR50 stands superior (the energy bar length is the lowest) among a vast number of such UOR electrocatalyst systems and it justifies our idea of modulating Ni-MOF with both reaction activator and reaction accelerator. As we have discussed earlier increasing rGO amount generates smaller crystallite and higher strain energy, generating more active sites with interconnected networks via the carbon framework but only up to a certain limit. Increasing it further doesn't create any smaller particles, instead increases the distance between two active sites thereby hampering the reaction kinetics due to excessive separation between the catalytically active sites.

In this study the choice of MoO2 as urea oxidation reaction activator for Ni-MOF catalyst was taken based on its availability of variable valence states. In the case of our reduced MoO2 (reduced from MoO3) Mo possibly has IV, V, and VI valance states as demonstrated by our XPS analysis. Reducing that Mo during the reaction, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> oxidation can be facilitated to form reaction-active NiOOH. The possible mechanism of reaction with the help of MoO2 near the Ni center has been demonstrated by the schematic diagram shown in supporting information (Scheme S1, Supporting Information).

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was applied to study the interfacial properties of the material electrodes. The corresponding Nyquist plots and the equivalent electrochemical circuit simulated from the fitted curve are shown in Figure [7c.](#page-8-0) It is pretty evident that with the smallest radius of the semicircles, NMR50 has the lowest charge transfer resistance (Rct). The Ni-MOF has the highest Rct of 36.5 Ω, while NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 have 16.3, 8.8, and 6.2 Ω respectively as calculated from the equivalent circuits of each material. The equivalent circuit for the NMR samples consists of a solution resistance denoted as Rs in series with three parallel combinations of Resistances and Common Phase Elements (CPE). Each of the R-CPE combinations is likely due to the three different steps of charge transfer, one from the electrolyte to the catalyst through the Nickel active centers, one from the Nickel to Carbon direct interface (rGO and Carbon framework of MOF), and another from Nickel to Carbon through Molybdenum (Ni─Mo─C). Consequently, the Nickel MOF and the NR30 samples required only two R-CPE combinations (Figure S7, Supporting Information) to fit the Nyquist plot, one of which can be attributed to the electrolyte-Ni-center diffusion process and the other to the Ni-Carbon interface of the materials. We can get a fair estimate of the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) by measuring the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) of the materials in the non-faradic region. Cdl of NMR10, NMR30, and NMR50 was measured by taking a CV curve with different scan rates (Figure S6, Supporting Information). NMR50 has the highest Cdl value signifying a considerably larger active surface area than its counterpart which explains its superior catalytic activity. It is to be noted that the rGO plays a major role in accelerating the reaction kinetics. The loading of rGO to a certain limit not only decreases the crystallite size incorporating defects but also increases the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) which is directly proportional to the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA).

The stability of NMR50 was evaluated in a dynamic working condition by putting it through a 10000 CV cycle at a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and comparing the LSV curves before and after (Figure [7d\)](#page-8-0). There was a negligible difference between the results indicating a highly stable catalyst for long-term usage. SEM images of NMR50 taken before and after the electrochemical dynamic stability test show no major or minor morphological deviation (Figures S7a,b, Supporting Information) and XRD pattern (Figure S7c, Supporting Information) taken after the 10000 CV cycle exhibits structurally identical behavior. However, a very slender protrusion of 021 and 130 peaks of MoO3 comes into the picture which indicates a slight oxidation of MoO2 that is so insignificant that it neither changes the surface morphology of the material nor the catalytic performance.

To check the efficiency of NMR50 for OER and UOR, LSV curves were taken in 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH with 0.33 separately with two different electrodes from the same batch of samples (**Figure 8**[a\)](#page-10-0). As per expectation, UOR achieves a higher current density with much less potential. 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density is achieved with only 1.4 V when assisted with urea compared to 1.7 V without. There is a peak in the region 1.3–1.5 V during the OER process due to the oxidation of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, which hampers the reaction while UOR doesn't have that issue as the curve starts rising from this oxidation point due to the formation of NiOOH, the active state of UOR. The highest current achieved in ≈1.9 V is almost half in the case of OER (≈130 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) compared to UOR (≈250 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) due to the slower reaction rate as evident by the Tafel slopes (31 compared to 86 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure [8b\)](#page-10-0). The EIS spectra also show almost three times lower charge transfer resistance during the UOR process (Figure [8c\)](#page-10-0). So, in the present case, UOR is a superior anodic reaction to OER in every way. We also tested the cathodic counterpart of water splitting, i.e., HER in both the solution with the NMR50 electrode to test if the presence of Urea hampers it in any way (Figure [8d\)](#page-10-0). But even the HER performance was marginally better in Urea assisted water boasting a slightly higher current density of 250 compared to 225 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at −0.8 V (vs RHE) proving that using Urea to assist with the water splitting reaction is superior and energy conserving from every direction.

To strengthen the correlation between the structure-activity relationship and experimental results and to get deeper insight into the prepared catalyst the theoretical simulation of the

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 8.** a) UOR versus OER LSV curves of NMR50, b) corresponding Tafel slopes, c) corresponding Nyquist plots and equivalent electrochemical circle circuit, d) HER LSV curves of NMR50 taken in 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH with 0.33 m Urea.

samples has been carried out with Density Functional Theory (DFT). The details mechanism of the study is given in the supporting information. **Figure [9](#page-11-0)** illustrates the structural and electronic properties of Ni-methylimidazole-based MOF (Ni-MOF), reduced graphene oxide (rGO), MoO2, and their hybrid combination, providing insights into their interaction and potential for catalytic applications. In Figure [9a,](#page-11-0) the optimized molecular structure of Ni-MOF shows nickel centers coordinated with methylimidazole ligands, forming a porous framework, while Figure [9b](#page-11-0) displays the structure of rGO, where the hexagonal carbon lattice is partially functionalized with oxygen-containing OH groups. Figure [9c](#page-11-0) highlights the crystalline structure of MoO2, which serves as a comparative material in this study, likely due to its catalytic relevance. Figures [9d,e](#page-11-0) illustrate the combination of rGO and Ni-MOF, revealing a strong interaction between the two materials. The top view in Figure [9d](#page-11-0) shows the alignment of rGO with Ni-MOF, suggesting a close interaction between them, while the side view in Figure [9e](#page-11-0) illustrates the binding distance (≈4.225 Å), with an estimated value of binding energy of −1.43 eV, indicating proximity with stable structure of composite system rGO-Ni-MOF. This structural integration points to potential enhancements in electron mobility and catalytic performance due to synergistic effects.

The combination of reduced graphene oxide (rGO) and Nimethylimidazole-based metal-organic frameworks (Ni-MOF) for urea oxidation reaction (UOR) could be further understood through density of states (DOS) calculations, which reveal key changes in their electronic structure. Figures [9f,g](#page-11-0) reveal the electronic properties of the individual materials and their combination. In Figure [9f,](#page-11-0) the DOS of Ni-MOF (black line) shows peaks at specific energy levels, corresponding to localized nickel d-states, while MoO2 (blue line) exhibits a high DOS near the Fermi level, indicating strong electronic activity. The DOS for rGO (red line) displays a relatively widespread near the Fermi level, consistent with its semi-metallic nature and high conductivity. Figure [9g](#page-11-0) compares the DOS of the combined rGO-Ni-MOF system (green line) with the individual DOS of Ni-MOF and rGO. The composite material exhibits an increase in DOS near the Fermi level compared to the individual components, indicating enhanced electronic interactions between rGO and Ni-MOF. This suggests a greater availability of electronic states for charge transfer, which can significantly improve conductivity and catalytic efficiency. The broadening of DOS and shift in energy levels reflect the synergistic effect between rGO's conductive properties and Ni-MOF's catalytic active sites, corroborating our effort to include rGO in the Ni MOF system as a reaction accelerator in the urea oxidation reaction (UOR). This combination likely leads to faster reaction kinetics and enhanced overall performance, driven by improved electron mobility and charge transfer at the rGO-Ni-MOF interface.

### **3. Conclusion**

To conclude, we have synthesized a highly efficient UOR catalyst derived from Ni-MOF and combined it with MoO2 as a reaction activator and rGO as a reaction accelerator. The synergistic composite brilliantly achieves a current density of above 260 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at ≈1.9 V. The Strategy to incorporate rGO into the MOF structure reduces crystallite size and consequently increases strain energy as well as improves the charge transfer

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 9.** Geometrically optimized molecular structure of a) Ni-methylimidazol based MOF (Ni-MOF), b) reduced graphene oxide (rGO), c) MoO2, Combined structure of rGO and Ni-MOF d) top view, e) side view, DOS of f) individual Ni-MOF, MoO2, rGO, g) combined rGO and Ni-MOF.

efficiency. On the other hand, the addition of MoO2 alters the electronic structure of Nickel to help with the NiOOH formation favoring the urea oxidation. By tuning the loading of rGO we found that the best-performing variant is NMR50 which exhibits significant improvement over its intermediate counterparts. The significance of approaching the anodic half-reaction of water splitting via the UOR route over OER has been shown in the report. On the cathode side, HER performance is also commanding, establishing the possibility of full-cell reaction. The appreciably low value of charge transfer resistance from the ECS study, in the present case, implies the fast reaction kinetics. Moreover, a long-term durability test has proved the robustness of the catalyst sample. The theoretical assessment based on DFT calculation also depicts that the rGO expedites the catalytic performance of Ni-MOF. The novel approach of tuning a material with an accelerator and activator can provide a new pathway for designing efficient electrocatalysts for sustainable industrial development.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

A.A. and K.M. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the CSIR–India [03(1391)/16/EMR-II], UGC-SAP, India [530/20/DRS-II/2015 (SAP-I)] and DST-FIST, India [SR/FST/PSI-219/2016]. The authors cordially acknowledge Dr. T. N. Narayanan and Mr. D. Maity, Dept. of Materials and Interface Engineering, TIFR, Hyderabad for providing measurement facilities. The authors are also thankful to INUP, IIT-Kharagpur, for providing the instrumental access.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

electrocatalysis, MoO2/Ni-MOF/rGO nanocomposite, reactionaccelerator, reaction-activator, urea-oxidation-reaction

> Received: August 21, 2024 Revised: October 15, 2024 Published online: November 24, 2024

[1] P. Jena, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2011**, *2*, 206.

- [2] L. Schlapbach, A. Züttel, *Nature* **2001**, *414*, 353.
- [3] J. A. Turner, *Science* **2004**, *305*, 972.
- [4] A. M. El-Sawy, I. M. Mosa, D. Su, C. J. Guild, S. Khalid, R. Joesten, J. F. Rusling, S. L. Suib, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1501966.

- <span id="page-12-0"></span>[5] C. Feng, M. B. Faheem, J. Fu, Y. Xiao, C. Li, Y. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 4019.
- [6] M. Gao, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, Q. Fang, S. Gu, J. Jiang, Y. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 7077.
- [7] D. Wang, W. Yan, S. H. Vijapur, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2013**, *89*, 732.
- [8] Q. Zhang, F. M. D. Kazim, S. Ma, K. Qu, M. Li, Y. Wang, H. Hu, W. Cai, Z. Yang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *280*, 119436.
- [9] R. K. Singh, K. Rajavelu, M. Montag, A. Schechter, *Energy Technol.* **2021**, *9*, 2100017.
- [10] A. N. Rollinson, J. Jones, V. Dupont, M. V. Twigg, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 1216.
- [11] W. Xu, Z. Wu, S. Tao, *Energy Technol.* **2016**, *4*, 1329.
- [12] *US Urea Spot Price Monthly Insights: IMF Primary Commodity Prices|YCharts*, [https://ycharts.com/indicators/us\\_urea\\_spot\\_spot](https://ycharts.com/indicators/us_urea_spot_spot) (accessed: April 2024).
- [13] R. Lan, S. Tao, J. T. S. Irvine, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2010**, *3*, 438.
- [14] T. Q. N. Tran, B. J. Park, W. H. Yun, T. N. Duong, H. H. Yoon, *Sci. Rep.* **2020**, *10*, 278.
- [15] W. Simka, J. Piotrowski, A. Robak, G. Nawrat, *J. Appl. Electrochem.* **2009**, *39*, 1137.
- [16] B. K. Boggs, R. L. King, G. G. Botte, *Chem. Commun.* **2009**, *32*, 4859.
- [17] W. Simka, J. Piotrowski, G. Nawrat, *Electrochim. Acta* **2007**, *52*, 5696.
- [18] V. Climent, A. Rodes, R. Albalat, J. Claret, J. M. Feliu, A. Aldaz, *Langmuir* **2001**, *17*, 8260.
- [19] B. Pierozynski, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2013**, *17*, 889.
- [20] M. Cataldo Hernández, N. Russo, M. Panizza, P. Spinelli, D. Fino, *Diamond Relat. Mater.* **2014**, *44*, 109.
- [21] H. Li, Q. Yu, B. Yang, Z. Li, L. Lei, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2015**, *738*, 14.
- [22] M. Rubel, C. K. Rhee, A. Wieckowski, P. A. Rikvold, *J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem.* **1991**, *315*, 301.
- [23] V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2013**, *108*, 660.
- [24] R. K. Singh, A. Schechter, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *278*, 405.
- [25] S. Xu, X. Ruan, M. Ganesan, J. Wu, S. K. Ravi, X. Cui, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2313309.
- [26] G. Estiu, K. M. Merz, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2004**, *126*, 6932.
- [27] N. Díaz, D. Suárez, K. M. Merz, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2001**, *123*, 9867.
- [28] R. K. Singh, P. Subramanian, A. Schechter, *ChemElectroChem* **2017**, *4*, 1037.
- [29] S. K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S. Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H. B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q. H. Liu, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [30] D. Wang, G. G. Botte, *ECS Electrochem. Lett.* **2014**, *3*, H29.
- [31] Y. Song, Z. Ji, S. Zhao, T. Wang, J. Liu, W. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 10417.
- [32] F. Guo, K. Ye, M. Du, X. Huang, K. Cheng, G. Wang, D. Cao, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *210*, 474.
- [33] L. Wang, S. Zhu, Y. Wang, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Q. Wang, M. Gu, K. Li, X. Sun, L. Yang, M. Shao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *460*, 141826.
- [34] H. Yu, S. Zhu, Y. Hao, Y. M. Chang, L. Li, J. Ma, H. Y. Chen, M. Shao, S. Peng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2212811.
- [35] D. A. Daramola, D. Singh, G. G. Botte, *J. Phys. Chem. A* **2010**, *114*, 11513.
- [36] F. Guo, K. Ye, K. Cheng, G. Wang, D. Cao, *J. Power Sources* **2015**, *278*, 562.
- [37] D. Wang, W. Yan, S. H. Vijapur, G. G. Botte, *J. Power Sources* **2012**, *217*, 498.
- [38] R. Y. Ji, D. S. Chan, J. J. Jow, M. S. Wu, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2013**, *29*, 21.
- [39] M. S. Wu, G. W. Lin, R. S. Yang, *J. Power Sources* **2014**, *272*, 711.
- [40] Y. Bao, K. Chen, Z. Feng, H. Ru, M. Guo, D. Chen, X. Li, J. Tu, L. Ding, X. Lai, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 11221.
- [41] Y. Xu, X. Chai, T. Ren, S. Yu, H. Yu, Z. Wang, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, *Chem. Commun.* **2020**, *56*, 2151.

- [42] X. Gao, Y. Wang, W. Li, F. Li, H. Arandiyan, H. Sun, Y. Chen, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *283*, 1277.
- [43] M. Fang, W. B. Xu, Y. Shen, P. Cao, S. Han, W. Xu, D. Zhu, Y. Lu, W. Liu, *Appl. Catal. A* **2021**, *622*, 118220.
- [44] W. Yan, D. Wang, G. G. Botte, *Appl. Catal. B* **2012**, *127*, 221.
- [45] S. Lu, X. Zheng, H. Wang, C. Wang, E. Akinlabi, B. B. Xu, X. Yang, Q. Hua, H. Liu, *EcoMat* **2024**, *6*, e12477.
- [46] J. Liu, Y. Wang, Y. Liao, C. Wu, Y. Yan, H. Xie, Y. Chen, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 26948.
- [47] Y. Zhang, C. Wang, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *32*, 2222.
- [48] E. T. Sayed, M. A. Abdelkareem, A. Bahaa, T. Eisa, H. Alawadhi, S. Al-Asheh, K. J. Chae, A. G. Olabi, *Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.* **2021**, *150*, 111470.
- [49] Y. Tong, P. Chen, M. Zhang, T. Zhou, L. Zhang, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 1.
- [50] P. Basumatary, D. Konwar, Y. S. Yoon, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *261*, 78.
- [51] X. Zhuo, W. Jiang, G. Qian, J. Chen, T. Yu, L. Luo, L. Lu, Y. Chen, S. Yin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 35709.
- [52] Y. Tong, L. Chen, P. J. Dyson, Z. Fei, *J. Mater. Sci.* **2021**, *56*, 17709.
- [53] X. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Xiong, G. Liu, C. Zhao, G. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *254*, 44.
- [54] L. Zhang, L. Wang, H. Lin, Y. Liu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, A. Chen, L. Wang, F. Ni, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, Y. Li, B. Zhang, H. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 16820.
- [55] T. Wang, R. Jin, X. Wu, J. Zheng, X. Li, K. Ostrikov, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 9228.
- [56] Y. Pan, K. Sun, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu, W. C. Cheong, Z. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Liu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 2610.
- [57] D. Zhu, C. Guo, J. Liu, L. Wang, Y. Du, S.-Z. Qiao, *Chem. Commun.* **2017**, *53*, 10906.
- [58] M. Yuan, R. Wang, Z. Sun, L. Lin, H. Yang, H. Li, C. Nan, G. Sun, S. Ma, *Inorg. Chem.* **2019**, *58*, 11449.
- [59] D. Zhu, M. Qiao, J. Liu, T. Tao, C. Guo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 8143.
- [60] J. A. Bau, S. M. Kozlov, L. M. Azofra, S. Ould-Chikh, A.-H. Emwas, H. Idriss, L. Cavallo, K. Takanabe, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 12858.
- [61] S. Xue, W. Zhang, Q. Zhang, J. Du, H.-M. Cheng, W. Ren, *Carbon* **2020**, *165*, 122.
- [62] S. L. Pasarakonda, S. Ponnada, D. B. Gorle, R. S. C. Bose, A. Palariya, M. S. Kiai, H. B. Gandham, M. Kathiresan, R. K. Sharma, A. Nowduri, *New J. Chem.* **2023**, *47*, 725.
- [63] G. K. Williamson, W. H. Hall, *Acta Metall.* **1953**, *1*, 22.
- [64] L. Zhou, H. B. Wu, Z. Wang, X. W. Lou, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2011**, *3*, 4853.
- [65] T. Anusuya, D. Prema, V. Kumar, *J. Mater. Sci.: Mater. Electron.* **2022**, *33*, 8935.
- [66] Z. Xing, Z. Ju, Y. Zhao, J. Wan, Y. Zhu, Y. Qiang, Y. Qian, *Sci. Rep.* **2016**, *6*, 26146.
- [67] M. Meng, H. Yan, Y. Jiao, A. Wu, X. Zhang, R. Wang, C. Tian, *RSC Adv.* **2016**, *6*, 29303.
- [68] J. S. Kang, M. A. Park, J. Y. Kim, S. H. Park, D. Y. Chung, S. H. Yu, J. Kim, J. Park, J. W. Choi, K. J. Lee, J. Jeong, M. J. Ko, K. S. Ahn, Y. E. Sung, *Sci. Rep.* **2015**, *5*, 10450.
- [69] J. Baltrusaitis, B. Mendoza-Sanchez, V. Fernandez, R. Veenstra, N. Dukstiene, A. Roberts, N. Fairley, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2015**, *326*, 151.
- [70] X. Huang, R. He, S. Wang, Y. Yang, L. Feng, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 18318.
- [71] Q. Xu, T. Yu, J. Chen, G. Qian, H. Song, L. Luo, Y. Chen, T. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Yin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 16355.
- [72] *Nickel (Ni), Z* = 28*, & Nickel Compounds*, [https://xpsdatabase.net/](https://xpsdatabase.net/nickel-ni-z28-chemicals/) [nickel-ni-z28-chemicals/](https://xpsdatabase.net/nickel-ni-z28-chemicals/) (accessed: July 2024).

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [73] T. Islam, M. M. Hasan, S. Sarker, A. J. S. Ahammad, *ACS Omega* **2023**, *8*, 14013.
- [74] S. Claramunt, A. Varea, D. López-Díaz, M. M. Velázquez, A. Cornet, A. Cirera, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 10123.
- [75] F. Tuinstra, J. L. Koenig, *J. Chem. Phys.* **1970**, *53*, 1126.
- [76] M. S. Mel'gunov, *Adsorption* **2023**, *29*, 199.
- [77] H. Jiang, J. Xia, L. Jiao, X. Meng, P. Wang, C.-S. Lee, W. Zhang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *310*, 121352.
- [78] W.-K. Han, X.-P. Li, L.-N. Lu, T. Ouyang, K. Xiao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Chem. Commun.* **2020**, *56*, 11038.
- [79] X. Liu, H. Qin, G. Wang, Q. Li, Q. Huang, Z. Wen, S. Mao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 16825.
- [80] X. Jia, H. Kang, X. Yang, Y. Li, K. Cui, X. Wu, W. Qin, G. Wu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *312*, 121389.
- [81] F. Wu, G. Ou, J. Yang, H. Li, Y. Gao, F. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Shi, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, *55*, 6555.
- [82] Z. Ji, J. Liu, Y. Deng, S. Zhang, Z. Zhang, P. Du, Y. Zhao, X. Lu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 14680.
- [83] K. Wang, M. Hou, W. Huang, Q. Cao, Y. Zhao, X. Sun, R. Ding, W. Lin, E. Liu, P. Gao, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *615*, 309.