---
source: Bornak 等 - 2024 - Electrochemical Synthesis of Urea from Carbon Dioxide and Nitrite at Cobalt Phthalocyanine-Ion Liqui.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 60.365s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:40:08.721041Z
---

### **OPEN ACCESS**

# Electrochemical Synthesis of Urea from Carbon Dioxide and Nitrite at Cobalt Phthalocyanine-Ion Liquid Electrodes

To cite this article: Mona Bornak et al 2024 J. Electrochem. Soc. 171 086504

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/ad6a97) for updates and enhancements.

## You may also like

- [Innovative urea formation using microwave](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1402-4896/ad9bfb) [plasma-water interaction: a study on](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1402-4896/ad9bfb) [reactive species and plant growth](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1402-4896/ad9bfb) Vikas Rathore, Kushagra Nigam, Chirayu N Patil et al. -
- [Communication—Electrochemical](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/acc97d) [Reduction of CO](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/acc97d)<sup>2</sup> [and N](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/acc97d)<sup>2</sup> [into Urea at ZIF-](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/acc97d)[8 Cathode](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/acc97d) Jiongliang Yuan, Zhaotao Liu, Lingjia Ma et al. -
- [Life Cycle Analysis for The Production of](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1755-1315/795/1/012031) [Urea Through Syngas](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1755-1315/795/1/012031) Prashant Kumar, Shalini Verma, Abhishek Gupta et al. -

# Electrochemical Synthesis of Urea from Carbon Dioxide and Nitrite at Cobalt Phthalocyanine-Ion Liquid Electrodes

Mona Bornak, <sup>1</sup> Jasmeen Akther, <sup>1</sup> Chaojie Song, <sup>2</sup> Khalid Fatih, <sup>2</sup> Ahmed H. Ali, <sup>1,3</sup> T. Jane Stockmann, <sup>1</sup> and Peter G. Pickup <sup>1,\*,z</sup>

Electrochemical coreduction of carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxyanion/oxide pollutants are attractive processes for simultaneous environmental remediation and sustainable production of urea. The development of suitable technology requires catalysts and electrodes that provide higher efficiencies by decreasing the overpotential required and increasing the faradaic efficiency. Electrode design is a key element in this process through which the environment of the catalyst can be manipulated to optimize activity and selectivity. Here, ionic liquids have been used to control the coreduction of carbon dioxide and nitrite at a cobalt phthalocyanine catalyst. Increasing the hydrophobicity of the catalyst layer with a mixture of 1-butylpyridinium hexafluorophosphate and trihexyltetradecylphosphonium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide was found to increase the faradaic efficiency for urea formation to 27% at the lowest overpotential (-0.064 V vs RHE), from 3% for a Nafion binder. Modulation of the electronic structure, arrangement (aggregation vs adsorption on the carbon support) and/or mobility (via solubilization) of the CoPc catalyst appear to play a role in determining the rate and faradaic efficiency of urea production. Combining the CoPc catalyst with a carbon supported Cu cocatalyst increased the rate of urea production by 195% at -0.064 V.

© 2024 The Author(s). Published on behalf of The Electrochemical Society by IOP Publishing Limited. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License (CC BY, http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted reuse of the work in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. [DOI: 10.1149/1945-7111/ad6a97]

Manuscript submitted June 6, 2023; revised manuscript received July 26, 2024. Published August 14, 2024.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Environmental concerns and the need for more sustainable production of fuels, commodity chemicals, and fertilizers has prompted massive growth in research on the electrochemical reduction of  $CO_2$ ,  $N_2$ , and nitrogen pollutants. Nitrite plays a central role in the nitrogen cycle and presents major environmental and health hazards. Its coreduction with  $CO_2$  to produce urea is a particularly attractive process because it can remove two serious pollutants from the environment while producing a high value product.  $^{3-5}$ 

Shibata et al. 6 demonstrated in 1995 that urea could be generated by coreduction of  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$  under ambient conditions at Cu loaded gas diffusion electrodes. Subsequently, they showed that a variety of other metals were effective for this process, 7 and that metallophthalocyanines (MPc) could also produce substantial amounts of urea. 8 FeTiO<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles, 9 Cu doped TiO<sub>2</sub>, 10 Te doped Pd, 11 AuCu nanofibers, and ZnO nanosheets 12 have also been shown to produce urea from coreduction of  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$ . A faradaic efficiency of 43% has been reported at a rate of 21  $\mu$ mol h<sup>-1</sup> for Cu doped TiO<sub>2</sub> at -0.4 V vs RHE. 10

Selectivity for the formation of urea from  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$  is determined by both the catalyst and the matrix used to support and immobilise it within the catalyst layer. Shibata et al.<sup>8,13</sup> employed gas diffusion electrodes with a hydrophobic carbon black layer on the gas side and a hydrophilic carbon black layer in contact with an aqueous  $0.2 \text{ M KHCO}_3 + 0.02 \text{ M KNO}_2$  electrolyte. In contrast, Cao et al.<sup>10</sup> and Feng et al.<sup>11</sup> simply drop cast their Cu doped  $TiO_2$  and Te doped Pd catalysts onto carbon paper and glassy carbon, respectively, with Nafion as a binder. Liu et al.<sup>14</sup> also used Nafion to bind AuCu nanofibers to carbon paper, while Siva et al.<sup>9</sup> applied a paste of Fe $TiO_3$  mixed with polyvinylidene fluoride and N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone to a stainless steel plate.

Incorporation of ionic liquids (IL) into catalyst layers offers greatly increased scope for manipulation of the microenvironment within which electrocatalytic reactions occur, including the local

hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity in the vicinity of the catalyst. When employed over a solid, often nanoparticle/nanoporous catalyst it is sometimes referred to as a "solid catalyst with ionic liquid layer" (SCILL). 15,16 An IL layer can also be used to select for certain reaction pathways/products as well as lower the overall thermodynamic energy barrier or improve the reaction kinetics. Indeed, Zhang et al. 17 employed a layer of 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium bis (trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide (BMImNTf2) IL over a Cu-foam nanocatalyst to select and investigate different CO2 reduction reaction pathways. The authors discovered that CO<sub>2</sub> reduction pathways involving a carbene intermediate could be suppressed using the IL layer, i.e., mechanisms generating ethanol or n-propanol.<sup>17</sup> Meanwhile, Suryanto et al. <sup>18</sup> demonstrated the catalytic properties of trihexyltetradecylphosphonium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide (P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) IL, in which the phosphonium cation acts as a proton carrier during NH<sub>3</sub> electrogeneration from N<sub>2</sub> through a ylide intermediate. Earlier work from MacFarlane's group utilized a similar IL; however, they swapped the NTf<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> anion for tris(pentafluoroethyl)trifluorophosphate (eFAP), i.e.,  $P_{66614}$ eFAP. MacFarlane and coworkers were able to achieve as high as 60%faradaic efficiencies, which they credit to the combination of the hydrophobic IL, which has a high N<sub>2</sub> solubility, and the nanoporous Fe electrocatalyst.

Other reports have used SCILL in combination with molecular or metal nanoparticle catalysts for  $NO_2^-$  reduction, which is a more thermodynamically favourable starting point than direct  $N_2$  reduction when operating in aqueous environments. Su et al.<sup>20</sup> employed a 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium ferricyanide IL with a poly(3-(aminopropyl)trimethoxysilane) layer for  $NO_2^-$  reduction in a sensor, while Li et al.<sup>21</sup> used a mixture of  $TiO_2$ , 1-butylpyridinium hexafluorophosphate (BuPyPF<sub>6</sub>), and graphite powder as a carbon paste electrode for  $NO_2^-$  oxidation and electrochemical analysis.

Here we have investigated the SCILL effects of  $P_{66614}NTf_2$ , a hydrophobic IL, and BuPyPF<sub>6</sub>, a hydrophilic one, on coreduction of  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$  at a carbon supported cobalt phthalocyanine catalyst (CoPc/C). Addition of these IL and their mixtures to the catalyst layer allows the hydrophobicity of the CoPc microenvironment to be controlled, which influences activity and product selectivity.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup>Department of Chemistry, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, A1B 3X7, Canada

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup>Clean Energy Innovation, National Research Council Canada, Vancouver, British Columbia, V6T 1W5, Canada

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup>Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Alexandria University, Alexandria (21568), Egypt

<sup>\*</sup>Electrochemical Society Member.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>z</sup>E-mail: ppickup@mun.ca

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Cyclic voltammograms ( $10 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$ ) for CoPc/C/GC electrodes, prepared with Nafion, BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> and/or P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>, in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> under N<sub>2</sub>.

<span id="page-2-1"></span>**Figure 2.** Cyclic voltammograms  $(10 \text{ mV s}^{-1})$  for CoPc/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub>+  $P_{66614}NTf_2$ )/CG electrodes in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> with and without 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under N<sub>2</sub> and CO<sub>2</sub>.

#### Experimental

Preparation of the CoPc/C and CoPc/Cu/C catalysts.—Carbon black (100 mg; Vulcan XC-72; Cabot) was dispersed in tetrahydrofuran (5 ml; THF; 99.9%; Sigma Aldrich) by sonication for 1 h. Cobalt(II) phthalocyanine (10 mg; 97%; Sigma Aldrich) in THF (1 ml) was then added and the mixture was sonicated for 2 h. The solvent was allowed to evaporate at room temperature in a fume hood overnight, and then the catalyst was dried in an oven at 80 °C for 1 h. A CoPc/Cu/C catalyst was prepared in the same way by using a commercial carbon supported Cu catalyst (Cu/C; 40% Cu on Vulcan carbon; Fuel Cell Store) in place of the carbon black.

X-ray diffraction (Fig. S1; Supplementary Material) of the CoPc/C catalyst showed very small peaks for crystalline CoPc, indicating good dispersion of the CoPc molecules over the carbon

surface. This was supported by transmission electron microscopy (Fig. S2), which shows no evidence of CoPc particles.

Electrode preparation.—CoPc/C, Cu/C or CoPc/Cu/C (10 mg) and the IL (10 mg; P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub> (≥95.0%, Sigma Aldrich), and/or BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> (98.0+%, Fisher Scientific)) were dispersed in 0.3 ml of THF and 2-propanol (1:1 volume ratio) by sonication for 1 h to form a uniform catalyst ink. The ink was drop coated onto glassy carbon (GC; 0.071 cm²; CH Instruments) or carbon fiber paper (CFP; 1 cm²; Toray TGP-H-090) electrodes to give a catalyst loading of 1.5 mg cm⁻² and IL loading of 1.5 mg cm⁻² (or 0.75 mg cm⁻² for Figs. 1 and 2). Electrodes prepared on CFP with BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> or a mixture of the two IL were heated in an oven for 30 min at 75 °C to improve stability. SEM images (Fig. S3) show that uniform catalyst layers were formed on the CFP electrodes when the mixed IL was employed.

Nafion containing electrodes were generated similarly using an ink prepared by dispersing 10 mg of CoPc/C in a mixture of  $H_2O$  (150  $\mu$ l), 2-propanol (75  $\mu$ l; 99.5% ACS grade; Caledon), and a 5% Nafion TM solution (75  $\mu$ l; 5.14 mass% in a mixture of lower aliphatic alcohols and 51.9% water; Dupont) followed by sonication for 3 h. The CoPc/C and Nafion loadings were 1.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> and 0.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively.

Electrochemistry.—Electrochemical measurements were made at ambient temperature in a glass cell with a Pt counter electrode and a saturated calomel reference electrode (SCE; 0.241 V vs SHE). Potentials are reported relative to the appropriate RHE (reversible hydrogen electrode), calculated to be at -0.486 V vs SHE under  $N_2$  (pH = 8.30) or -0.395 V vs SHE under  $CO_2$  (pH = 6.75), in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub>. The working and counter electrode compartments were separated by a porous glass frit. All measurements were made in aqueous 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> at an ambient temperature of ca. 20 °C. Nitrogen gas (Praxair, UHP, NI 5.0UH-T) and carbon dioxide (CD-50, industrial grade; Airgas) were used as received. Current densities are based on the geometric areas of the electrodes. The second scans of cyclic voltammograms are shown in all cases.

**Product analysis.**—Urea and ammonia in the electrolysis solutions were measured by UV-vis spectrophotometry by the salicylate<sup>22</sup> and diacetyl monoxime (DAM) methods,<sup>25,24</sup> respectively, as described in the Supplementary Material. For urea analysis, it was necessary to deionize samples prior to analysis to prevent interference from NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-,25</sup> The precision and accuracy of the analytical methods employed has been previously documented and discussed in detail.<sup>25</sup> Calibration plots are shown in Figs. S4 and S5.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Cyclic voltammetry at CoPc/C on glassy carbon electrodes.— Initially, glassy carbon (GC) electrodes were used to characterize the effects of the IL on the electrochemistry of the CoPc complex and electrochemical reduction of  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$ , in comparison with Nafion as a binder. Figure 1 shows voltammograms in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> under  $N_2$ .

Individually, the  $P_{66614}NTf_2$  and BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> IL gave poor quality voltammograms relative to Nafion, with no clear redox wave for the Co(II/I) couple, which appears at a formal potential (E°′) of 0.08 V with the Nafion binder. In contrast, a 1:3 mixture (by mass) of BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> and  $P_{66614}NTf_2$  was found to produce a reversible wave at E°′ = 0.59 V. The positive shift of the Co(II/I) formal potential relative to the Nafion containing electrode demonstrates that the IL mixture substantially changes the environment of the CoPc complex, with the more positive potential characteristic of a more hydrophobic (less aqueous) environment. <sup>26</sup> Suppression of the current at potentials below ca. -0.3 V by the ionic liquids is also consistent with a more hydrophobic environment, and indicates that the catalyst is coated with a layer of IL (i.e. that it is a SCILL). This is supported

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Cyclic voltammograms (10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) for CoPc/C/CFP electrodes in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> + 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub>.

<span id="page-3-1"></span>**Figure 4.** Current density vs time at various potentials for electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> at CoPc/C/CFP electrodes.

by the TEM image shown in Fig. S6, which shows less defined surface structures for the modified carbon particles relative to the inset image for CoPc/C without the IL.

Cyclic voltammograms for electrodes prepared with a 1:3 mixture of BuPyPF $_6$  and P $_{66614}$ NTf $_2$  (mixed IL) in 0.1 M NaHCO $_3$ , with and without 5 mM NaNO $_2$  under N $_2$  and CO $_2$ , are shown in Fig. 2. Changing the purge gas from N $_2$  to CO $_2$  in the absence of NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup> caused a -0.09 V shift of the Co(II/I) peaks due to the effect of the decrease in pH from formation of H $_2$ CO $_3$  in the electrolyte solution (i.e. there was not a significant change vs SCE). There was only a small increase in the cathodic current at potentials below ca. -0.3 V, indicating that there was low activity for CO $_2$  reduction.

When  $NO_2^-$  was added to the electrolyte, the Co(II/I) redox waves changed substantially under both  $N_2$  and  $CO_2$ , with a

<span id="page-3-2"></span>**Figure 5.** Faradaic efficiencies (FE) and rates for formation of urea from electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> at CoPc/C/CFP electrodes.

significant shift to less positive potentials and splitting into a peak and a shoulder. This suggests that there was coordination of  $NO_2^-$  to an axial site of the CoPc.<sup>27</sup> Under  $N_2$ , there was a new reduction wave starting at ca.  $-0.1\,V$  that can be attributed primarily to reduction of  $NO_2^-$  to  $NH_3$ .<sup>8</sup> The shoulders seen for the Co(II/I) redox waves for electrodes containing the mixed IL, and splitting seen in the presence of  $NO_2^-$ , can be attributed the presence of CoPc sites in different environments and with different  $NO_2^-$  binding strengths.<sup>26</sup>

When both  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$  were present there was a large increase in current at potentials below -0.05 V, with a shoulder at -0.3 V that was more than double the current at this potential for either  $NO_2^-$  or  $CO_2$  alone. This suggests that there was coreduction of  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$  in addition to their individual reduction processes. A previous report has demonstrated that urea is produced by CoPc under these conditions, in addition to CO and  $NH_3$ .

Electrolysis of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and CO<sub>2</sub> at CoPc/C/CFP electrodes.—In order to determine product yields, 1 cm<sup>2</sup> carbon fibre paper (CFP) electrodes were used for electrolysis of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M Na<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub>. In order to provide sufficient stability, electrodes prepared with BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> and the mixed IL were heated at 75 °C for 30 min before use. P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub> electrodes were not used because they exhibited very low activities.

A new electrode was used for each 2 h electrolysis experiment, and a cyclic voltammogram was recorded in the electrolysis solution before each electrolysis. Figure 3 shows voltammograms (second cycle) for electrodes prepared with Nafion, BuPyPF<sub>6</sub>, and a 1:3 mixture of BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> and P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>. There were not significant differences between the first and second cycles (Fig. S7). Heating of the IL electrodes resulted in significant changes in their voltammogram relative to the GC electrodes (illustrated for mixed IL electrodes by comparing the voltammogram in Fig. 3 with the voltammogram for NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in Fig. 2). Notably, the onset of coreduction of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and CO<sub>2</sub> shifted to more negative potentials, implying that melting of the IL mixture increased its coverage of the catalyst surface, restricting diffusion of the reactants to active CoPc sites.

The voltammograms in Fig. 3 demonstrate a very strong dependence of the catalyst activity on its environment, and that BuPyPF $_6$  and P $_{66614}$ NTf $_2$  are very effective for manipulation of the microenvironment and activity (demonstrating SCILL character). Whereas BuPyPF $_6$  alone increased activity for the coreduction of NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup> and CO $_2$ , and shifted the reduction wave to less negative

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Faradaic efficiencies and rates for formation of ammonia from electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> at CoPc/C/CFP electrodes.

<span id="page-4-1"></span>**Figure 7.** Cyclic voltammograms  $(10 \text{ mV s}^{-1})$  at CoPc/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> +  $P_{66614}$ NTf<sub>2</sub>), Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> +  $P_{66614}$ NTf<sub>2</sub>) and CoPc/Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> +  $P_{66614}$ NTf<sub>2</sub>) electrodes in 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub>.

potentials (lower overpotentials), the mixed IL greatly suppressed activity and increased the overpotential. Presumably, the opposite effects of the hydrophobic and hyrophilic IL influence the activity of the catalyst differently for each reaction pathway (i.e. for formation of urea, ammonia, CO,  $H_2$ , etc) and this offers much scope for manipulating selectivity.

Selectivity for the formation of urea and ammonia (NH<sub>3</sub> + NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>) was determined by analysis of samples prepared by constant potential electrolysis (2 h) of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub>. Figure 4 shows current vs time curves at three different potentials, and Figs. 5 and 6 show faradaic efficiencies and rates for formation of urea and ammonia, respectively. Average currents and concentrations of urea and ammonia are shown in Table S1. Averages and standard deviations are reported for three different mixed IL electrodes at -0.064 V to demonstrate reproducibility and assess the precision of the measurements. A control experiment at -0.064 V with 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under N<sub>2</sub> (Table S2) revealed that urea and ammonia were

<span id="page-4-2"></span>**Figure 8.** Current density vs time at various potentials for electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> at Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> +  $P_{66614}NTf_2$ ) and CoPc/Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> +  $P_{66614}NTf_2$ ) electrodes.

also produced in the absence of  $CO_2$  gas, although the average current was much lower (7.5  $\mu A$  cm $^{-2}$  under  $N_2$  vs 34.7  $\mu A$  cm $^{-2}$  under  $CO_2$ ). Urea production under these conditions can be attributed to the coreduction of  $NO_2^-$  and  $H_2CO_3/HCO_3^{-28}$  No urea or ammonia was detected following electrolysis of 0.1 M NaCO3 under  $N_2$ .

The effects of the IL on the electrolysis current are broadly consistent with those seen in cyclic voltammetry, with BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> (solid lines in Fig. 4) providing higher currents than Nafion (dashed lines) at the least negative potentials, and the mixed IL providing much lower currents (dotted lines). However, rates of urea formation (Fig. 5) show a much different effect of the mixed IL. The rate at  $-0.064 \,\mathrm{V}$  was much higher than for Nafion, and rates were similar for the three electrodes at -0.164 V. This clearly shows that the mixed IL greatly increases selectivity for formation of urea, particularly at higher potentials (lower overpotential). This is quantified by the faradaic efficiencies in Fig. 5. Whereas the Nafion and BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> electrodes produced urea with very low faradaic efficiency (1.1% to 3.8%) at all three potentials, the mixed IL produced urea with faradaic efficiencies of 27.0% at -0.064 V and 13.8% at -0.164 V. The highest faradaic efficiency was obtained at the lowest overpotential, which provides the highest energy efficiency.

In contrast to urea, rates of ammonia production did follow the trends seen in the electrolysis currents, resulting in similar faradaic efficiencies for the three electrode types (Fig. 6). On average the mixed IL gave slightly higher faradaic efficiencies than BuPyPF<sub>6</sub>, while the lowest faradaic efficiency was obtained with Nafion at the intermediate potential (-0.164 V). It is notable that the mixed IL electrode gave a very high combined faradaic efficiency of 90.2% for formation of urea plus ammonia.

Cu/C+IL/CFP and CoPc/Cu/C+IL/CFP electrodes.—Although the mixed IL greatly increases the faradaic efficiency for urea production from coreduction of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and CO<sub>2</sub> at CoPc/C electrodes, rates of urea and ammonia production are too low for practical applications. Shibata and Furuya<sup>8</sup> have shown that the faradaic efficiency of urea formation at metal (M) phthalocyanine electrodes depends on the rates of formation of intermediates from both NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and CO<sub>2</sub> reduction. Their proposed mechanism for coupling of

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 9.** Faradaic efficiencies and rates for formation of urea from electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> in 0.1 M NaHCO<sub>3</sub> at CoPc/C, CoPc/Cu/C and Cu/C electrodes with the 1:3 BuPyPF $_6$  +  $P_{66614}$ NTf $_2$  IL.

<span id="page-5-1"></span>**Figure 10.** Faradaic efficiencies and rates for formation of ammonia from electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO $_2$  under CO $_2$  in 0.1 M NaHCO $_3$  at CoPc/C, CoPc/Cu/C and Cu/C electrodes with the 1:3 BuPyPF $_6$  +  $P_{66614}$ NTf $_2$  IL.

adsorbed PcM–CO and PcM–NH $_2$  intermediates has been applied in a number of more recent studies,  $^{4,10,14,29,30}_{,10}$  and serves as a starting point for the design of more active and selective catalysts and electrode structures.

CoPc can reduce  $CO_2$  to a PcCo–CO intermediate bound in one of the axial positions, or  $NO_2^-$  to PcCo–NH $_2$ . However, formation of both simulaneously and their coupling requires two CoPc molecules in a suitable (cofacial) arrangement, and is therefore very slow. Higher rates could be possible by reaction of the PcCo-NH $_2$  and/or PcCo-CO intermediates with -NH $_2$  and/or -CO intermediates on a second catalyst (cocatalyst). <sup>29,30</sup> Here Cu metal nanoparticles on a carbon black support were employed as a cocatalyt, since Cu and Cu alloys have been shown to be effective for production of urea from  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$ . <sup>6,14</sup>

Cu/C and CoPc/Cu/C electrodes on CFP with the mixed IL binder (1:3 mixture of BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> and P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) were prepared in

the same way as CoPc/C electrodes by using a commercial Cu/C catalyst in place of carbon black. Figure 7 shows cyclic voltammograms for 5 mM NaNO $_2$  under CO $_2$ . Currents at the Cu/C electrode were much higher than at the CoPc/C electrode, and somewhat higher than those at the BuPyPF $_6$  and Nafion electrodes in Fig. 3. Adsorption of CoPc onto the Cu/C catalyst (CoPc/Cu/C) decreased the current significantly, but it remained much higher than for CoPc/C(BuPyPF $_6$ +P $_{66614}$ NTf $_2$ ).

Figure 8 shows current vs time plots for electrolysis of 5 mM NaNO<sub>2</sub> under CO<sub>2</sub> at Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> + P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) and CoPc/Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> + P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) electrodes. In contrast to the voltammetric data, currents were similar for the Cu/C and CoPc/Cu/C electrodes at the two highest potentials (-0.064 and -0.164 V), and highest for the CoPc/Cu/C electrode at -0.264 V. This indicates that the voltammograms were dominated by short term activity, which was also indicated by decreasing currents on successive cycles (Fig. S7). Nevertheless, both sets of electrodes provided much higher currents than CoPc/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> + P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) electrodes (Fig. 4). In particular, the average current density of -0.173 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at -0.064 V for the CoPc/Cu/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> + P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) electrode was nearly 7 times higher than for the CoPc/C(BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> + P<sub>66614</sub>NTf<sub>2</sub>) electrode in Fig. 4 (-0.035 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Average current densities and concentrations of urea and ammonia are shown in Table S3.

The higher currents at the CoPc/Cu/C electrode provided much higher rates for production of urea (Fig. 9) and ammonia (Fig. 10), and the faradaic efficiency for ammonia was also increased (Fig. 10). The Cu/C electrodes also provided higher rates and efficiencies for ammonia production than for CoPc/C. However, faradaic efficiencies for urea formation at CoPc/Cu/C were substantially lower than for CoPc/C, and very low ( $\leq 3.7\%$ ) for Cu/C. Nonetheless, the goal of increasing the rate of urea production has been achieved by combining CoPc with a Cu cocatalyst, with a 195% increase in rate at -0.064 V obtained at the expense of only a 41% decrease in faradaic efficiency (from 27.0% to 16.1%).

**Discussion.**—Coreduction of  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$  involves many different reactions that produce numerous products. <sup>1,5,31</sup> In most cases the primary products (CO, NH<sub>3</sub>, H<sub>2</sub>, etc) arise from the reduction of  $CO_2$  and  $NO_2^-$  (and  $H_2O$ ) separately, <sup>10,11</sup> without coupling to form urea and other C-N containing products. There are a multitude of factors involved in determining the rates of the reaction pathways, and therefore the activity and selectivity of a particular catalyst, <sup>29</sup> and the influence of the catalyst environment. <sup>31</sup>

The selectivity of a specific catalyst for production of urea depends on the reaction pathways and mechanisms, which vary between catalysts, and the populations and locations of key intermediates. For CoPc (and other metal phthalocyanines), Shibata and Furuya proposed a Langmuir—Hinshelwood-type mechanism in which metal bound -NH<sub>2</sub> and -CO intermediates couple to produce urea (Eq. 1).

$$2PcCo - NH_2 + PcCo - CO \rightarrow (NH_2)_2CO + 3CoPc$$
 [1]

Although this is not possible at isolated phthalocyanine molecules,  $^{29}$  it could occur at pairs of phthalocyanine molecules in approximately cofacial orientations. Alternatively, urea can be formed through a Eley–Rideal mechanism in which Co-NH $_{\rm x}$  species couple with free CO $_{\rm 2}$ , or by reaction with –CO bound to the catalyst support. <sup>32</sup>

The rates of each of these mechanisms will be strongly influenced by the environment of the CoPc molecules, and its influence on their electronic structure, arrangement (e.g. aggregation vs adsorption on the carbon support), mobility (e.g. via solubilization), and the mobility and local concentrations/activities of reactants and products. <sup>31,33</sup> The cyclic voltammograms in Fig. 1 and chronoamperometry in Fig. 4 show that the IL employed in this work cause major changes in the environment of the CoPc catalyst, and will have a significant influence on all of these properties and processes.

Most notably, the shift in  $E^{\circ\prime}$  for the Co(II/I) couple (Fig. 1) shows a strong electronic effect, while suppression of the current obtained during electrolysis shows decreased mobility and activity of reactants.

In terms of changing the faradaic efficiency for urea production, the higher solubility of CoPc in ionic liquids than water<sup>34</sup> may be a key factor. It would increase the concentration of mobile CoPc molecules and result in a higher rate for Langmuir—Hinshelwood-type (Eq. 1) and other mechanisms via dynamic formation of coupling sites. In addition, the effect of the IL on CO<sub>2</sub> solubility may promote urea formation. In Other ways in which the IL could increase urea production, relative to ammonia, are by decreasing the concentration of  $NO_2^-$  within the catalyst layer and decreasing  $H^+$  and  $H_2O$  activity, which would decrease the rate of ammonia formation. The role of the hydrophobicity of the IL in decreasing access of water and the reactants is illustrated in Figs. 1 and 3, where currents were decreased greatly when the mixed IL was used. This decreased the rate of ammonia formation greatly, relative to the BuPyPF<sub>6</sub> IL, but had a much smaller effect on the rate of urea formation

The effects of Cu on the rate of urea formation can be attributed in part to its ability to catalyse the coreduction of  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$  to urea.  $^{10.14,29}$  However, the results in Fig. 9 show that this was only significant at -0.264 V. At less negative potentials, there was a substantial synergistic effect. This suggests that the  $-NH_x$  and -CO reactive intermediates that produce urea were formed at Cu and Co sites, respectively. Coupling to form urea (Eq. 2), could then occur at CoPc molecules adsorbed on, or close to, the Cu surface.

$$2Cu - NH_x + PcCo - CO + (4 - 2x)H^+ \rightarrow (NH_2)_2CO + 2Cu + CoPc$$
 [2]

The much higher rates of ammonia formation at Cu/C relative to CoPc/C in Fig. 10 indicate that the alternate reaction, between PcCo-NH $_2$  and Cu-CO is much less likely. In addition, it has been shown that the favoured mechanism for urea formation at Cu is via coupling of CO $_2$  with Cu-NH $_x$  species. <sup>29</sup> The strong synergistic effect seen here suggests that reaction 2 is more favorable.

#### Conclusions

Incorporation of ionic liquids into CoPc/C catalyst layers increases the rate and faradaic efficiency for urea formation from coreduction of  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$ , relative to a Nafion binder. Increasing the hydrophobicity of the IL increases faradaic efficiency but decreases the current and rates of both urea and ammonia formation, presumably by decreasing access of water and the reactants. The IL also appear to modulate the selectivity of the coreduction of  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$  through their influence on the electronic structure, arrangement (e.g. aggregation vs adsorption on the carbon support) and/or mobility (e.g. via solubilization) of the CoPc catalyst.

Adsorption of CoPc on a carbon supported Cu catalyst enhanced the current for coreduction of  $NO_2^-$  and  $CO_2$  greatly, and produced a strong synergistic increase in the rate of urea formation. This appears to arise from coupling of  $-NH_x$  species on the Cu surface with PcCo-CO adsorbed onto, or close to, the Cu surface.

#### Acknowledgments

This project was funded in part by the Government of Canada/Ce projet est financé en partie par le gouvernement du Canada, and by Memorial University. Funding was provided by NRCan's Office of Energy Research and Development (OERD) through Carbon Capture Storage and Utilization (CCUS) program, NRC's Materials for Clean Fuels Challenge program.

#### ORCID

T. Jane Stockmann

#### References

- <span id="page-6-0"></span> C. Tang, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, and S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 60, 19572 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-1"></span> X. Zhang, Y. T. Wang, Y. B. Wang, Y. M. Guo, X. Y. Xie, Y. F. Yu, and B. Zhang, *Chem. Commun.*, 58, 2777 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-2"></span> S. S. Liu, M. F. Wang, Q. Y. Cheng, Y. Z. He, J. J. Ni, J. Liu, C. L. Yan, and T. Qian, ACS Nano, 16, 17911 (2022).
   Z. W. Mei, Y. L. Zhou, W. Q. Lv, S. F. Tong, X. Y. Yang, L. Q. Chen, and
- <span id="page-6-27"></span>N. Zhang, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng., 10, 12477 (2022).
  5. Z. X. Tao, C. L. Rooney, Y. Y. Liang, and H. L. Wang, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 143,
- <span id="page-6-3"></span> Z. X. Tao, C. L. Rooney, Y. Y. Liang, and H. L. Wang, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 143 19630 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-4"></span>6. M. Shibata, K. Yoshida, and N. Furuya, J. Electroanal. Chem., 387, 143 (1995).
- <span id="page-6-5"></span>7. M. Shibata, K. Yoshida, and N. Furuya, *J. Electrochem. Soc.*, **145**, 2348 (1998).
- <span id="page-6-6"></span>8. M. Shibata and N. Furuya, *J. Electroanal. Chem.*, 507, 177 (2001).
- <span id="page-6-7"></span>P. Siva, P. Prabu, M. Selvam, S. Karthik, and V. Rajendran, *Ionics*, 23, 1871 (2017).
- <span id="page-6-8"></span> N. Cao, Y. L. Quan, A. X. Guan, C. Yang, Y. L. Ji, L. J. Zhang, and G. F. Zheng, J. Colloid Interface Sci., 577, 109 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-9"></span> Y. G. Feng, H. Yang, Y. Zhang, X. Q. Huang, L. G. Li, T. Cheng, and Q. Shao, *Nano Lett.*, 20, 8282 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-10"></span> N. N. Meng, Y. M. Huang, Y. Liu, Y. F. Yu, and B. Zhang, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci., 2, 100378 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-11"></span>13. M. Shibata, K. Yoshida, and N. Furuya, J. Electrochem. Soc., 145, 595 (1998).
- <span id="page-6-12"></span> S. L. Liu, S. L. Yin, Z. Q. Wang, Y. Xu, X. N. Li, L. Wang, and H. J. Wang, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci., 3, 100869 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-13"></span>15. G. R. Zhang and B. J.-M. Etzold, Journal of Energy Chemistry, 25, 199 (2016).
- <span id="page-6-14"></span>16. G. R. Zhang and B. J.-M. Etzold, Adv. Funct. Mater., 31, 2010977 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-15"></span>G. R. Zhang, S. D. Straub, L. L. Shen, Y. Hermans, P. Schmatz, A. M. Reichert, J. P. Hofmann, I. Katsounaros, and B. J.-M. Etzold, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.*, 59, 18095 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-16"></span>B. H.-R. Suryanto, K. Matuszek, J. Choi, R. Y. Hodgetts, H. L. Du, J. M. Bakker, C. S.-M. Kang, P. V. Cherepanov, A. N. Simonov, and D. R. MacFarlane, *Science*, 372, 1187 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-17"></span> F. L. Zhou, L. M. Azofra, M. Ali, M. Kar, A. N. Simonov, C. McDonnell-Worth, C. H. Sun, X. Y. Zhang, and D. R. MacFarlane, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 10, 2516 (2017).
- <span id="page-6-18"></span>W. Y. Su and S. H. Cheng, Int. J. Electrochem. Sci., 7, 9058 (2012).
- <span id="page-6-19"></span>Y. H. Li, H. B. Wang, X. S. Liu, L. Guo, X. L. Ji, L. Wang, D. N. Tian, and X. H. Yang, J. Electroanal. Chem., 719, 35 (2014).
- <span id="page-6-20"></span> L. Q. Li, C. Tang, B. Q. Xia, H. Y. Jin, Y. Zheng, and S. Z. Qiao, ACS Catal., 9, 2902 (2019).
- <span id="page-6-21"></span>L. Chen, J. Ma, Y. Huang, M. H. Dai, and X. L. Li, *Limnol. Oceanogr. Meth.*, 13, 303 (2015).
- <span id="page-6-22"></span> D. Li, N. Xu, Y. X. Zhao, C. Zhou, L. P. Zhang, L. Z. Wu, and T. R. Zhang, Small Methods, 6, 2200561 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-23"></span> J. Akther, C. J. Song, K. Fatih, and P. G. Pickup, J. Electrochem. Soc., 170, 026505 (2023)
- <span id="page-6-24"></span> B. R. Kozub and R. G. Compton, Sensors and Actuators B-Chemical, 147, 350 (2010).
- <span id="page-6-25"></span>27. J. Z. Li, X. C. Wu, R. Yuan, H. G. Lin, and R. Q. Yu, *Analyst*, **119**, 1363 (1994).
- <span id="page-6-26"></span>28. J. Akther, C. Song, K. Fatih, and P. Pickup, *ECS Advances*, 2, 030503 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-28"></span> G. L. Yang, C. T. Hsieh, Y. S. Ho, T. C. Kuo, Y. Kwon, Q. Lu, and M. J. Cheng, ACS Catal., 12, 11494 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-29"></span>30. J. J. Fu, Y. Yang, and J. S. Hu, ACS Mater. Lett., 3, 1468 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-30"></span>J. J. Ni, Q. Y. Cheng, S. S. Liu, M. F. Wang, Y. Z. He, T. Qian, C. L. Yan, and J. M. Lu, Adv. Funct. Mater., 33, 2212483 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-31"></span>X. W. Liu, P. V. Kumar, Q. Chen, L. J. Zhao, F. H. Ye, X. Y. Ma, D. Liu, X. C. Chen, L. M. Dai, and C. A. Hu, *Appl. Catal., B Env.*, 316, 121618 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-32"></span> T. L. Soucy, Y. S. Liu, J. B. Eisenberg, and C. C.-L. McCrory, ACS Appl. Energy Mater., 5, 159 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-33"></span>34. F. Ghani, J. Kristen, and H. Riegler, J. Chem. Eng. Data, 57, 439 (2012).