---
source: Cai 等 - 2023 - Formation and Stabilization of NiOOH by Introducing α‐FeOOH in LDH Composite Electrocatalyst for Ox.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 32.251s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:40:44.777684Z
---

# **Formation and Stabilization of NiOOH by Introducing** *α***-FeOOH in LDH: Composite Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Evolution and Urea Oxidation Reactions**

*Minmin Cai, Qian Zhu, Xiyang Wang, Zhiyu Shao, Lu Yao, Hui Zeng, Xiaofeng Wu, Jun Chen, Keke Huang,\* and Shouhua Feng*

**NiOOH is considered as the most active intermediate during electrochemical oxidation reaction, however, it is hard to directly synthesize due to high oxidation energy. Herein, theoretical calculations predict that** *α***-FeOOH enables a decline in formation energy and an improvement in stabilization of NiOOH in NiFe-based layered double hydroxide (LDH). Inspiringly, a composite composed of** *α***-FeOOH and LDH is well-designed and successfully fabricated in hydrothermal treatment by adding extra Fe3<sup>+</sup> resource, and stable NiOOH is obtained by the following electro-oxidation method. Benefiting from strong electron-capturing capability of** *α***-FeOOH, it efficiently promotes charge redistribution around the Ni/Fe sites and activates Ni atoms of LDH, verified by X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) and X-ray absorption spectra (XAS). The d-band center is optimized that balances the absorption and desorption energy, and thus Gibbs free energy barrier is lowered dramatically toward oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and urea oxidation reaction (UOR), and finally showing an outstanding overpotential of 195 mV and a potential of 1.35 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , respectively. This study provides a novel strategy to construct highly efficient catalysts via the introduction of a new phase for complex multiple-electron reactions.**

**1. Introduction**

The development of highly efficient and stable electrocatalysts is pivotal in facilitating the sluggish kinetics of oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and urea oxidation reaction (UOR).[1–3] Among the various non-noble metal electrocatalysts, nickel– iron-based nanomaterials have received considerable attention owing to their cost effectiveness, natural abundance, and well-tuned electronic configuration.[4,5] Especially, with an edge-sharing octahedral MO6 layer-stacking crystal structure served as highly active sites, NiFe-based layered double hydroxides (NiFe LDHs) exhibited highly remarkable intrinsic electrochemical activity.[6,7] Several studies have reported that NiFe LDH is actually a precatalyst, and it heavily undergoes a self-reconstruction process in basic solution, generating Ni oxyhydroxide (NiOOH) as the active species for OER.[8,9] To begin with, Alexis et al. characterized the vibration mode of NiOOH by in situ Raman spectra, when Ni–Fe films worked as anodes in basic media during the OER.[10] Then, some research revealed that NiOOH species is generally recognized as the positive reaction species and can provide abundant intrinsic catalytic sites for OER.[11–13] Not limited to OER, NiOOH can also efficiently catalyze the anodic degradation of urea that featured with the more complex six-electron redox process.[14,15] However,

owing to the instability of the high valence state of Ni (III) which can easily transform into Ni (II), the direct synthesis and application of NiOOH have not been realized, unless a high anodic polarization is applied.[16,17] Therefore, it is crucial to explore synthesis methods to stabilize NiOOH catalyst.

Among the multiple regulation methods, surface structure reconstruction with the aid of a new phase is widely accepted as a controllable approach for synthesizing novel composites with

M. Cai, Q. Zhu, Z. Shao, L. Yao, H. Zeng, X. Wu, K. Huang, S. Feng State Key Laboratory of Inorganic Synthesis and Preparative Chemistry Jilin Provincial International Cooperation Key Laboratory of Advanced Inorganic Solid Functional Materials College of Chemistry

Jilin University Changchun 130012, China E-mail: kkhuang@jlu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202209338.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202209338**

X. Wang

Department of Mechanical and Mechatronics Engineering Waterloo Institute for Nanotechnology Materials Interface Foundry University of Waterloo Waterloo, Ontario N2L3G1, Canada

J. Chen Intelligent Polymer Research Institute Australian Institute for Innovative Materials Innovation Campus University of Wollongong

Squires Way, North Wollongong, NSW 2500, Australia

enhanced catalytic performance.[18–20] Recently, NiFe LDHsrelated studies suggested that FeOOH served as a second phase is capable of harvesting electrons from Ni-based oxides.[21] Chen et al. proposed that Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> of FeOOH is favorable to interact with Ni2+ and form close-connected oxygen bridges (Fe(3+*δ*)+−O− Ni2+), accelerating electron transfer.[22] Hence, it is expected that FeOOH can be used to modulate the electron configuration, aiming to raise the intrinsic catalytic performance of the composite.

Based on the above background, we firstly performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations to predict the behavior of LDH and NiOOH with the presence of *α*-FeOOH, which showed that *α*-FeOOH can promote the formation and stabilization of NiOOH. Motivated by the DFT predictions, an electrocatalyst composed of amorphous NiOOH/FeOOH and *α*-FeOOH was synthesized using a straightforward hydrothermal method and a subsequent "diffusion-redeposition" approach by electro-oxidation treatment (referred to as NiOOH/ (LDH/*α*-FeOOH)). Raman spectra showed the generation of NiOOH on LDH with the presence of *α*-FeOOH. In addition, the X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) and X-ray absorption spectra (XAS) results revealed that the obtained nanocomposite exhibited strong charge-transfer interactions between *α*-FeOOH and LDH, and a rarefied electron density around the Ni sites. The NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) exhibited superior electrocatalytical activity: an ultralow overpotential (195 mV) and potential (1.35 V) at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> toward OER and UOR, respectively. Further, the DFT calculations verified that the welldesigned NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) composite exhibited the lowest Gibbs free energy barrier toward OER and UOR. This study opens the avenue toward the stabilization and enhancement for catalyst by precisely constructing composite with the introduction of a new phase.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

DFT calculations were performed to predict the inductive effect of *α*-FeOOH on LDH and NiOOH. First, a composite model of LDH/*α*-FeOOH was constructed (**Figure 1**a). Bader charge analysis (Table S1, Supporting Information) demonstrated that 0.457 e− transferred from LDH to *α*-FeOOH, showing the ability of FeOOH to absorb electrons. The charge density difference through the LDH/*α*-FeOOH (Figure S2, Supporting Information) also show the trend. To explore the influence of *α*-FeOOH on LDH, the average Bader charge variations of Ni and Fe in LDH with or without *α*-FeOOH were determined (Figure 1b). In LDH/*α*-FeOOH, there was more charge loss in Ni and Fe atoms (−1.25 for Ni and −1.54 for Fe) and less charge loss occurs (−1.23 for Ni and −1.53 for Fe) in LDH. Therefore, the presence of *α*-FeOOH allows the cation valence of LDH to increase. In addition, the hydrogen migration energy (*Em*) values at the sites from the LDH to *α*-FeOOH (Equation (S10), Supporting Information) and the Hydrogenation formation energy (*E*H) of the oxygen sites in the *α*-FeOOH/NiOOH model (Equation (S11), Supporting Information) were determined, respectively. The hydrogen migration path is illustrated in Figure S3a (Supporting Information), the computed *E*m at the two sites were −0.602 and −0.409 eV (Figure S3b, Supporting Information), indicating that the loss of H atoms in LDH with the presence of *α*-FeOOH was exothermic thermodynamically. The loss of H atoms from LDH is a necessary step during the conversion to NiOOH. Therefore, it was believed that *α*-FeOOH theoretically contributed to the formation of NiOOH. To reveal the inductive effect of FeOOH on the stability of NiOOH, we constructed NiOOH and *α*-FeOOH/NiOOH models (Figure 1c) and compared their *E*H (Equation (S11), Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 1d, the *EH* of the oxygen sites is represented by the purple circles, and the two rightmost columns represent the average values. The average *EH* of NiOOH was −3.18 eV, while the *EH* of *α*-FeOOH/NiOOH was −2.92 eV, indicating the NiOOH with *α*-FeOOH is less prone to reduction than pure NiOOH. In brief, the above calculations predicted that the strong electron-capturing and hydrogen absorption ability, further facilitating the formation and stabilization of NiOOH. Inspired by this, we introduced *α*-FeOOH by a classic hydrothermal approach to obtain LDH and *α*-FeOOH composite nanosheets (LDH/*α*-FeOOH). Subsequently, the as-prepared LDH/*α*-FeOOH nanosheets were used as anodes and operated by linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) scanning in 1.0 m KOH; thereafter, fresh LDH/*α*-FeOOH decorated with amorphous NiOOH/FeOOH was obtained as expected (denoted as NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH)). The fabrication process of the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) nanosheet composite is illustrated in Figure 1e.

The crystal structure of the obtained samples were characterized by X-ray power diffraction technique (XRD). As shown in **Figure 2**a, in addition to the characteristic peaks of LDH (PDF#49-0188), the weaker diffraction peak observed at 21° corresponded to the (110) plane of *α*-FeOOH (PDF#03-0125), indicating the successful preparation of LDH/*α*-FeOOH composite.[23–25] The XRD pattern of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) hardly varies from LDH/*α*-FeOOH, demonstrating that continuous LSV scanning does not induce the structure changes. The Raman spectra are illustrated in Figure 2b, further exploring the variation in the surface layer of the materials. Several characteristic peaks of LDH and LDH/*α*-FeOOH centered at 460, 520, 537, 570, and 3581–3668 cm−<sup>1</sup> are attributed to the A1g stretching modes of Ni–OH, Ni–O, Fe–O–Fe, Fe–O, and O–H vibrations of NiFe hydroxides, respectively.[26,27,28]

No visible signal of *α*-FeOOH was observed in the LDH/*α*-FeOOH sample, which can be explained from two perspectives: the low content of *α*-FeOOH and the subsurface characterization of the detection depth of Raman technology (≈10 nm). Meanwhile, the intensity of –OH significantly broadens in LDH/*α*-FeOOH owing to the presence of *α*-FeOOH, compared to LDH. After the electrochemical operation, NiOOH/LDH distinctly shares the same Raman feature peaks as LDH; however, the surface structure of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) is completely distinguished from that of LDH/*α*-FeOOH. The peaks observed at 474 and 575 cm−<sup>1</sup> are attributed to the Eg bending and A1g stretching vibrations of Ni–O of NiOOH, respectively, whereas the peaks observed at 571 and 672 cm−<sup>1</sup> are assigned to the FeOOH in NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH).[21,29] Moreover, the disappearance of the –OH signal owing to the deprotonation effect further reveals that several active species (Ni/FeOOH) were generated on the surface of LDH/*α*-FeOOH. The Raman spectra also demonstrated that the entire structure exhibits a

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic model of LDH/*α*-FeOOH. b) The average Bader charge variations of Ni and Fe in LDH. c) Schematic model of *α*-FeOOH/ NiOOH. d) The hydrogenation formation energies on the O sites over NiOOH and *α*-FeOOH/NiOOH. e) Schematic illustration for the formation process of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) nanosheets.

large disorder, mainly because the presence of *α*-FeOOH promotes surface reorganization and the formation of rich and active NiOOH for electrocatalysis.[30,28]

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure S5, Supporting Information) showed that the 3D interlaced porous nanosheets grew vertically and densely in the LDH/*α*-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) samples. TEM images of LDH/*α*-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) validated the thin nanosheet morphology (Figure S6a, Supporting Information and Figure 2c). The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of LDH/*α*-FeOOH illustrated two lattice fringes with interplanar spacing of 0.25 and 0.21 nm, which are ascribed to (012) plane of LDH and (140) plane of *α*-FeOOH (Figure S6b, Supporting Information). After electrochemical treatment, NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) remained the same lattice fringes without distinction as before, whereas a narrow surface amorphous layer with a thickness of ≈3 nm occurred spontaneously, as shown in Figure 2d. Energy-dispersive spectrometry (EDS) elemental mapping images (Figure S6d–f, Supporting Information and Figure 2e) illustrated the homogeneous distribution of Ni, Fe, and O throughout the nanosheets of LDH/ *α*-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH). The EDS results of the SEM images (Figure S7, Supporting Information) confirmed that the relative contents of Fe and Ni remain at a constant level, revealing that the electrochemical procedure did not trigger the heavy migration of metal ions. In addition, ICP test with ten groups of solution after electrochemical operation was conducted to explore the content of solution metal ions. As exhibited in Table S2 (Supporting Information), the average value of Ni and Fe atom is 0.00177 and 0.02738 ppm, respectively. The extremely lower leaching concentration of Ni or Fe validates that fewer proportion of metal ions probably migrate from electrode surface and dissolve into electrolyte. Furthermore, atomic force microscopy (AFM) analysis (Figure 2f and Figure S8, Supporting Information) depicted that the thickness of the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) nanosheet was ≈5.4 nm, which was thinner than that of LDH/*α*-FeOOH (9.1 nm), suggesting that the nanosheets became more thinner after oxidization. **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns and b) Raman spectra of LDH, LDH/*α*-FeOOH, NiOOH/LDH, and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH). c) TEM, d) HRTEM, e) STEM and the corresponding mapping images, and f) AFM image of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH). g) Ni 2p XPS spectra, h) Ni L-edge XAS, i) O K-edge XAS (inset: magnified section of O peak Ι) of LDH, LDH/*α*-FeOOH, and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH). j) Fourier transform of the *k*<sup>2</sup> -weighted EXAFS spectra at Ni K-edge and k) Ni K-edge EXAFS of oscillations for LDH/*α*-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH).

During the reconstruction process, NiFe LDH served as a sacrificial template for providing a nanosheet framework and active metal ions, whereas, *α*-FeOOH acted as an inductive agent to attract charge reorganization regularly, ruled by a subsequent "diffusion-redeposition" path. The thinness of NiOOH/(LDH/ *α*-FeOOH) nanosheets was preferable for the diffusion of metal ions and solution anions. To determine the detailed evolution process of LDH/*α*-FeOOH under a given potential, a series of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH)-X (X denotes the scanning numbers) were prepared, and the corresponding HRTEM images are shown in Figure S9 (Supporting Information). The thickness of the outer amorphous layer increased from 0 to 5 nm with an increase in the scanning period. According to the EDS, ICP AFM, and HRTEM images, it was deduced that there were two steps during the growth process of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH). More specifically, metal (Ni/Fe) ions initially migrated to the nanosheets surface from LDH/*α*-FeOOH, resulting in thinner nanosheets. In the second stage, these outside metal ions started to nucleate and grow in the KOH solution, allowing for nanocrystal growth and evolution into a new phase, inducing the amorphous Ni/FeOOH to cover the nanosheets.

The elemental compositions and surface electronic states of LDH/*α*-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) were investigated through XPS to determine the relationship between

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2023, 7, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202209338 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library or rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensea

the electronic configuration and catalytic performance. As depicted in Figure 2g, the high-resolution XPS spectra of Ni in LDH, LDH/α-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH) consisted of two spin-orbit coupling peaks (Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{1/2}$ ) and two satellites, which were deconvoluted into Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup>. Although LDH/α-FeOOH possessed the same chemical states of Ni<sup>2+</sup> (855.8 eV) and Ni<sup>3+</sup> (857.4 eV) with LDH, Ni 2p peaks in LDH/\alpha-FeOOH exhibited a shift to high energy and the ratio of Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> increased to 1.01 from 0.97 (Table S2, Supporting Information), owing to the strong inducing effect of  $\alpha$ -FeOOH. In comparison to LDH/α-FeOOH, the Ni 2p peaks of NiOOH/ (LDH/\alpha-FeOOH) shifted significantly and the ratio of Ni3+/Ni2+ increased by 0.87. Most of the Ni<sup>3+</sup> originated from the newly thin amorphous NiOOH produced during electrochemical oxidation, which is in perfect agreement with the Raman spectra. It is experimentally verified that Ni<sup>3+</sup> was regarded as the active reaction site to convert the intermediate (-OO-) into O2, hence more Ni3+ elevates the probability for generating O2 at great extent.<sup>[28]</sup> In comparison to LDH and LDH/α-FeOOH, the Fe 2p peaks of NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH) exhibited a shift to a higher energy and the Fe<sup>3+</sup>/Fe<sup>2+</sup> ratio raised, revealing a higher electronic state than that of their counterparts (Figure S10a and Table S3, Supporting Information). Herein, Fe2+ and Fe3+ of LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) nanosheets were derived from LDH and surface-oxidized Fe<sup>3+</sup> or  $\alpha$ -FeOOH, respectively. [28,31,32] Correspondingly, there are three oxygen species in LDH, LDH/\alpha-FeOOH and NiOOH/(LDH/\alpha-FeOOH) (Figure S10b, Supporting Information), attributing to highly active oxygen species (-O-), hydroxyl group (O-H) and surface water molecule absorbed (H<sub>2</sub>O) at ≈530, 531, and 532 eV, respectively, reflecting the diverse forms of oxygen coordinated to the metal. [33-35] Moreover, a relative enhancement of -Owas exhibited in NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH), indicating that a large number of surface lattice oxygen atoms were oxidized. The above XPS results not only demonstrated the successful inducing effect of  $\alpha$ -FeOOH on LDH, but also indicated that the redistributed charges put the surface metals (Ni and Fe) in an extremely electron-poor environment, coinciding with the DFT calculations and Raman phenomenon.

To better investigate the surface electronic structure of these catalysts after electrochemical treatment, Ni L-edge, Fe L-edge, and O K-edge XAS spectra were obtained. As shown in Figure 2h, Ni L-edge XAS spectra are divided into two regions of interest: the L3-edge near 856 eV and the L2-edge near 874 eV. The normalized Ni L-edge XAS spectrum of NiOOH/ (LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) exhibited a higher peak intensity than LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH and LDH, indicating an increase in the valence state and a decrease in the electron density for Ni atoms. Subsequently, the normalized Fe L-edge XAS spectrum illustrated in Figure S11a (Supporting Information) also exhibited a similar result: NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) possesses a higher peak intensity, demonstrating that the Fe element in NiOOH/ (LDH/α-FeOOH) has a lower electron density and higher oxidation state.[36,37] These results were strictly consistent with XPS results. The normalized O K-edge XAS spectrum was used to analyze the valence of the metal-oxygen bond as illustrated in Figure 2i. Peak A was assigned to the hybridization of metal 3d and oxygen 2p, peak B represented the signal of peroxo-like -OO species with the O-O bond, whereas peak C was assigned to the covalence of Ni/Fe 4sp and O 2p.<sup>[38,39]</sup> Notably, the intensity of peak A in NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) slightly decreased to some extent and peak B shifted to a lower energy ( $\Delta E = 0.5$  eV), owing to the enhanced covalence of M–O bonds and the lattice oxygen oxidation that results in more active –OO<sup>-</sup> species, respectively. The obtained XAS results and other characterized results further demonstrated that the electronic states of Fe/Ni increase significantly, and the lattice oxygen was highly oxidized.

X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements were conducted to understand changes in the local structural motifs of metal elements (Fe/Ni) in LDH/α-FeOOH and NiOOH/ (LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH). The edge peak near 8340 eV in the normalized Ni K-edge XANES (Figure S12a, Supporting Information) has positively shifted for NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH), relative to LDH/α-FeOOH, And the intensity of white line peak near 8350 eV of NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) is higher than that of LDH/α-FeOOH. For Fe k-edge of NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH), the edge peak near 7110 eV shifts to higher energy and the intensity of white line peak enhances apparently, compared to LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH (Figure S12b, Supporting Information). These Ni and Fe K-edge XANES spectra demonstrates that valence state of metal ions has been elevated for electro-oxidation operation, which is strictly consistent with XPS and Ni/Fe L-edge XAS spectra results. As shown in Figure S11b (Supporting Information), NiOOH/(LDH/\alpha-FeOOH) and LDH/\alpha-FeOOH shared two coordination peaks, ascribed to the Fe-O and Fe-M paths, respectively. The peak intensities of Fe-O and Fe-M in NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) declined distinctly and the intensities of Ni–O and Ni–M in NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH) also increased (Figure 2j), demonstrating an enhanced local structural disorder after electrochemical oxidation. In comparison to LDH/  $\alpha$ -FeOOH, the distances of Ni–O and Ni–M paths contracted in NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH), signifying that the oxidation treatment triggered a distortion in the local coordination environment of Ni. As further confirmed by the Ni K-edge  $k^3 \chi$  data of EXAFS oscillations (Figure 2k), oxidizing LDH@FeOOH produced smaller amplitude oscillations, and decreased the coordination number of Ni atoms, indicating more defects of amorphous features in NIOOH/LDH@FeOOH.[38]

A series of NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH)-X samples were characterized to tailor the variation of composition, valence state and hybridization effect, and to probe the surface reconstruction process of LDH/α-FeOOH during oxidation. All XRD patterns (Figure S13a, Supporting Information) exhibited same patterns ranging from NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH)-5 to NiOOH/ (LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH)-100, revealing that the electrochemical treatment does not form any new phase or materials. However, the Raman spectra of NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH)-X distinctly changed with an increase in the degree of oxidization, as shown in Figure S13b (Supporting Information). At the beginning of the preparation, NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH)-5 exhibited vibration peaks the identical to those of LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH, whereas the peaks attributed to NiFe hydroxide started to disappear and novel peaks assigned to Ni/FeOOH occurred abruptly at X = 30. In particular, the signal of FeOOH was significantly stronger than that of NiOOH in NiOOH/(LDH/\alpha-FeOOH)-30 because Fe had a lower oxidization potential than Ni. Subsequently, the

www.advmat.de

enhanced intensities of the  $e_g$  bending vibration and  $A_{1\text{g}}$ stretching vibration of Ni<sup>III</sup>-O surpassed the usual formation speed of FeOOH. This abnormal phenomenon revealed the presence of intense electronic transfer between the Ni and Fe atoms in the oxidization process. The XPS spectra of NiOOH/ (LDH/α-FeOOH)-X samples were illustrated in Figure S14 (Supporting Information) to further explain this special reality. Fe 2p exhibited an initial shift to a higher energy, and maintained negligible migration when X reached 30. In addition, the parallel tendency can be applied to Ni 2p, demonstrating that the oxidization states of Fe/Ni increased initially and thereafter remained steady for a complete surface reaction. According to the calculated ratio of  $M^{3+}/M^{2+}$  (Table S3, Supporting Information), the surface content of Fe<sup>3+</sup> increased sharply initially and began to decrease in NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH)-40, however, the proportion of Ni3+ continued to increase at all times until it reached 100%. It was demonstrated that fully oxidized Fe started to harvest electrons from Ni to balance the charge. The interaction resulted in that oxidized Fe offers an excellent and beneficial platform to facilitate the formation of highly active species (NiOOH) for transforming -OO- into O2, which is in accordance with the Raman spectra. At expected, the content of lattice oxygen exhibited a same growth trend as that of Ni<sup>3+</sup>. As shown in Figure S14e (Supporting Information), with increasing scanning cycles, the proportion of the higher oxidation state of Fe remains a "volcano" type, whereas the Ni L-edge shows negligible fluctuation for a tough reversibility upon the oxidization and reduction reaction. Additionally, the hybridization effect of the metal 3d and oxygen 2p was enhanced as expected. During the preparation of catalyst, the induction of α-FeOOH was further evidenced by the fact that the charge around the Ni/Fe atoms started to reorganize, and the powerful electronic interaction between Fe and Ni occurred, resulting in the formation of NiOOH as quickly as possible. The induced reconstruction of the composite by  $\alpha$ -FeOOH species enhanced the electrochemical performance of the catalysts. To verify the aforementioned theory related to the structure-performance relationship, the electrocatalytic activity of the samples toward the OER was evaluated using a standard three-electrode setup in 1.0 м KOH. As illustrated in Figure 3a, the LSV polarization curves with IR correction demonstrated that NiOOH/(LDH/ α-FeOOH) exhibited significantly higher OER activity than the other as-prepared samples. The detected overpotential that reached a geometric current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for E-LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH was 195 mV, which was not only lower than those of NiOOH/LDH (210 mV), E-Ni(OH)2 (340 mV), LDH/ α-FeOOH (270 mV), LDH (265 mV), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (350 mV), and Ni foam substrate (320 mV), but superior to the numerous stateof-the-art catalysts (Figure S16 and Table S4, Supporting Information). The NiOOH/(LDH/α-FeOOH) composite could reach a higher current density than NIOOH/LDH under the same potential, which was corroborated by the induction and facilitation of  $\alpha$ -FeOOH. Notably, NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) required the smaller overpotentials of 230 and 250 mV to deliver current densities of 50 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (Figure 3b). To gain a deeper insight into the influence of the surface content of NiOOH on the electrochemical performance, a series of NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH)-X (X = 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and 100)

Figure 3. Electrochemical performance toward OER: a) Polarization curves of Ni foam, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, LDH, LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH, E-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, NiOOH/LDH, and NiOOH/(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH). b) Summarized overpotentials at J = 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and J = 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and c) Tafel slopes of Ni foam, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, LDH, LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH, E-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, NiOOH/LDH, and NiOOH(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH). d) Double-layer capacitance, e) normalized Polarization curves (The current density is normalized by ECSAs obtained from non-Faradic double-layer capacitance.) and f) electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, LDH, LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH, E-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, NiOOH/LDH, and NiOOH(LDH/ $\alpha$ -FeOOH) at 1.43 V (vs RHE).

were immediately tested in a basic solution (Figure S17b, Supporting Information). The current density for OER continued to rise initially and thereafter started to decline at a scanning cycle of 40, indicating that a suitable proportion of NiOOH coupled with LDH was favorable for elevating the electrochemical OER activity. Specifically, NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH)-40 with the outer amorphous thickness of 3 nm exhibits the superior OER activity among others (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The observed Tafel slopes of the catalysts (Figure 3c) demonstrated that E-LDH/*α*-FeOOH had the minimum value (35 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ), firmly implying better catalytic reaction kinetics than the other samples. Furthermore, the superior electrochemical activity of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) can be attributed to its enlarged electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) and the fast charge-transfer kinetics. In contrast to the other electrodes, the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) exhibited the largest non-Faradic double-layer capacitance (*C*dl = 8.5 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ); the enlarged active surface area (212.5 cm<sup>2</sup> ) was fully capable of contributing significantly to the electrochemical property (Figures 3d and Figure S19, Supporting Information). Based on the *C*dl values, the normalized LSV curves obtained by ECSA and the matching Tafel slopes of Ni(OH)2, LDH, LDH/*α*-FeOOH, E-Ni(OH)2, NiOOH/LDH and NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) were presented in Figures 3e and Figure S20b (Supporting Information), respectively. In addition, NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) exhibited the superior inherent catalytic activity and desirable dynamic reaction kinetics. The charge-transfer capability of the as-obtained catalysts was estimated through electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), as illustrated in Figure 3f. The least contact and charge-transfer resistances of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) validated that *α*-FeOOH changed the charge-transfer ability, and the surface incorporating NiOOH enhanced the conductivity to a certain degree. The designed composite (NiOOH/ (LDH/*α*-FeOOH)) had the largest electrochemically active area, significant exposure of active sites, and shortest charge and mass transfer paths, which exhibited intrinsic activity for producing O2 electrochemically. In addition to the electrochemical activity, the long-term durability of electrocatalysts plays a vital role in practical commercial applications. In this study, the chronoamperometric technique was carried out to estimate the stability. The current density of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) remained at 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> with inappreciable attenuation during the long-term OER tests under s fairly large potential (Figure S21, Supporting Information). After the long-term stability, the corresponding SEM images, XRD pattern and Raman spectrum were collected in Figure S22 (Supporting Information). The nanosheets morphology were remained and seldom tripped off from nickel foam and the crystal structure kept the same before and after OER test. Meanwhile, the Raman feature peaks were in accordance with that of the original, except that the peak intensity of NiOOH enhanced because Ni2+ continued to be oxidized under high potential. These results indicate that the well-constructed NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) exhibits superior OER activity and prominent stability, suggesting that the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) nanosheets have satisfactory and enormous practical industrial applications in electrochemical water splitting.

Despite the excellent performance toward OER of the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) composite, the efficient utilization of hydrogen energy still needs to be improved from a commercial application perspective. Another facile strategy is anodic UOR for the reduction of the energy input for hydrogen generation.[40] The UOR performance of the samples was assessed using a similar standard three-electrode setup in 1.0 m KOH with 0.33 m urea. In the presence of urea, the onset potential of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) was negatively shifted compared to that in 1.0 m KOH, as shown in **Figure 4**a. In comparison with the LSV curves observed in pure KOH, a lowered potential of 90 mV at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was obtained for UOR. For comparison, the UOR performance of other as-synthesized samples was also determined in 1.0 m KOH with 0.33 M urea. Among these electrodes, the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) composite exhibited the lowest potentials of 1.35, 1.37, and 1.4. V to reach 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , respectively (Figures 4b,c). To uncover the UOR dynamics, the corresponding Tafel slopes of all samples were determined and plotted in Figure 4d. The unexpectedly smaller Tafel slope of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) extracted from LSV curve was 30.1 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , which well ensured a rapid increase in the current density, that is, favorable kinetics for UOR. As shown in Figure 4e, the determined *C*dl values of the samples were 1.6, 2.5, 4.4, and 10.0 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, further suggesting that NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) possesses the largest ECSA and more exposed active sites in the UOR. Additionally, the EIS spectra recorded at 1.37 V was used to probe the electrode kinetics toward UOR, as shown in Figure 4f. As expected, the NiOOH/ (LDH/*α*-FeOOH) composite exhibited a smaller charge-transfer kinetics than those of LDH, LDH/*α*-FeOOH, and NIOOH/ LDH, which was in accord with smallest Tafel slope. The lowest potential, lowest Tafel slope, largest ECSA, and smallest chargetransfer resistance demonstrates the superior UOR activity of NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH), which was attributed to the fact that the NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) composite has adequate NiOOH species generated on the LDH and the strong electron interaction between LDH and NiOOH. Therefore, we demonstrated that more NiOOH species were capable of serving as highly active sites for the UOR.

To gain a deep insight into the catalytic mechanism of OER and UOR, a series of calculations were performed. Initially, three models of NiOOH, Ni(OH)2, and FeOOH/NiOOH were constructed, as shown in Figures S24 and S25 (Supporting Information), and Figure 5a, respectively. The reaction energies of samples for the elementary OER steps were determined. Figure 5b illustrated the OER Gibbs free energy diagrams of NiOOH, Ni(OH)2 and FeOOH/NiOOH. It can be observed that ∆*G*\*OH in the Ni(OH)2 model was significantly less than that of the other samples, indicating that the adsorption of \*OH was too strong to conveniently generate \*O, such that the energy barrier of the rate-determining step was 1.800 eV for Ni(OH)2. The adsorption of \*OH in the NiOOH model was slightly weak, resulting in the energy barrier 1.647 eV. For FeOOH/NiOOH, the adsorption of \*OH was the weakest, and the adsorptions of \*O and \*OOH were also relatively consistent. Hence, FeOOH/NiOOH exhibited the lowest the rate-determining step energy barrier (1.563 eV). The theoretical OER overpotentials for the three models were also determined (0.417, 0.570, and 0.332 V, respectively), as shown in Figure 5c, and the results were in agreement with the overpotentials measured in the experimental LSV curves. **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2023, 7, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202209338 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** Electrochemical performance toward UOR: a) Comparison of Polarization curves in 1.0 m KOH with and without 0.33 m urea, b) polarization curves, c) summarized potentials at *J* = 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, d) Tafel slopes, e) double-layer capacitance, and f) EIS spectra of LDH, LDH/FeOOH, E-LDH, and E-LDH/FeOOH in 1.0 m KOH with 0.33 m urea.

Thereafter, we analyzed the projected density of states (PDOS) of Ni 3d orbit at the adsorption site shown in Figure 5d. Three PDOS have the similar curve with a continuous DOS through the Fermi level (*E* – *E*<sup>f</sup> = 0 eV), showing a metallic character of Ni. It is worth noting that two peaks locate at −5.5 and −3.3 eV arise in PDOS of FeOOH/NiOOH, while PDOS of NiOOH show two lower peaks at −5.6 and −4.4 eV. As for PDOS of Ni(OH)2, only a low peak was shown at −4.0 eV. Therefore, there are more states in relatively low energy, leading to the lowest d band center of Ni site in FeOOH/ NiOOH (*ε*<sup>d</sup> = −1.77 eV). And d-band centers of the active sites in NiOOH, Ni(OH)2, were −1.32 and −0.84, respectively. It is well known that the d-band centers of metal atoms are highly correlated with the adsorption of reaction intermediates, and that higher d-band centers can better overlap with the p orbitals of O atoms, resulting in higher adsorption energies. Therefore, the d-band center results agree with the Gibbs free energy plot, indicating that the favorable d-band center of Ni can efficiently weaken the adsorption of key intermediates and reduce the theoretical overpotential. The 2D charge density maps of NiOOH, Ni(OH)2, and FeOOH/NiOOH were shown in Figures 5e–g, respectively, and the Bader charge variances at their adsorption sites were also marked. It can be observed that the order of their electron loss was FeOOH/NiOOH > NiOOH > Ni(OH)2, which was the reverse sequence of ∆*G*max in the three models. This may be due to the fact that Ni on Ni(OH)2 contains more electrons, making it easier to donate electrons to \*OH to form stronger covalent bonds, resulting in a higher adsorption energy. In contrast, the FeOOH/NiOOH composite model had fewer electrons around the Ni active atoms, resulting in weaker adsorption and satisfactory OER performance. We also calculated the lattice oxygen-mediated mechanism (LOM) as shown in Figure S28 (Supporting Information). However, the maximal free energy barrier are all higher than 2.1 eV (2.127, 2.550, 2.172 eV), significantly higher than that in absorbate evolution mechanism (AEM), illustrating the preference for AEM rather than LOM in the system. In addition, UOR performance of composites was also explored by the DFT calculations. First, absorption energy of urea in three coordination (bridge coordination, oxygen coordination, nitrogen coordination) was assessed (Figures S29–S31, Supporting Information).[41,42] The best adsorption mode on NiOOH is oxygen-coordinated (−1.15 eV), while on Ni(OH)2 and FeOOH/NiOOH is nitrogencoordinated urea (−1.05, −1.25 eV, respectively). Therefore, FeOOH/NiOOH possess the most negative adsorption energy, accelerating the urea to absorb on the catalyst. Further, Figure S32a (Supporting Information) showed the charge density difference of urea absorbed on FeOOH/NiOOH, where a significant charge density accumulation and depletion can be observed, indicating a strong adsorption between FeOOH/ NiOOH and urea. The Gibbs free energy diagram for the UOR was also shown in Figure S32b (Supporting Information),[43] in which FeOOH/NiOOH required a 6.382 eV free energy increase for the dissociation of the adsorbed CO(NH2)2\* to CO\* and NH\* intermediates, whereas NiOOH and Ni(OH)2 remained with higher energy barriers (6.688 and 6.998 eV, respectively), indicating that FeOOH/NiOOH can stabilize the CO\* and NH\* intermediates better than NiOOH and Ni(OH)2, which is consistent with the polarization curves in Figure 4b. Therefore, the theoretical calculations are in good agreement with the experimental data.

**Figure 5.** a) The crystal structure of FeOOH/NiOOH. b) The calculated Gibbs free energy diagram for the four steps of OER over NiOOH, Ni(OH)2 and FeOOH/NiOOH (100). The insets are the local crystal structure of FeOOH/NiOOH absorbed with \*OH, \*O, and \*OOH. c) Theoretical Overpotentials of NiOOH, Ni(OH)2 and FeOOH/NiOOH composites during OER. d) PDOS of NiOOH, Ni(OH)2 and FeOOH/NiOOH regarding the Ni 3d orbitals. The 2D charge density maps of e) NiOOH, f) Ni(OH)2, and g) FeOOH/NiOOH.

#### **3. Conclusions**

In this study, a two-step approach composed of hydrothermal treatment and followed electro-oxidation was conducted to synthesize NiOOH/(LDH/*α*-FeOOH) composite. Experimentally, the presence of *α*-FeOOH is vitally important for the formation and stabilization of NiOOH, as predicted by the initiatory DFT calculations. The charge density around Ni sites of LDH will certainly be bring down by the attraction of neighboring *α*-FeOOH owning to its strong electron-capturing and hydrogen-absorption capability. Subsequently, the active NiOOH species was successfully obtained by electro-oxidation triggered structural reconstruction. Owing to its more optimal d-band center and the lower Gibbs free energy barrier toward OER and UOR, the resultant nanocomposite presents an outstanding catalytic performance with an overpotential of 195 mV and a potential of 1.35 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. We proposed a novel strategy for constructing highly efficient composites by introducing a new phase to modulate the charge distribution, resulting in promoted surface reconstruction.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

M.C. and Q.Z. contributed equally to this work. This study was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC; 22090044, 21831003, 21621001, 22171102), the Jilin Province Science and Technology Development Plan (20200802003GH, 20200801005 GH, and 20210509035RQ) and the Scientific Research Project in the Education Department of Jilin Province. The authors thank BL11B beamline of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) for

providing the beamtime. This study was supported by the Users with Excellence Program of the Hefei Science Center CAS (2020HSC-UE002). W.Z. acknowledges the Open Foundation of the State Key Laboratory of Inorganic Synthesis and Preparative Chemistry.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

composite, NiOOH, oxygen evolution reaction, structure reconstruction, urea oxidation reaction, *α*-FeOOH

> Received: October 10, 2022 Revised: October 11, 2022 Published online: December 18, 2022

- [1] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, 6321.
- [2] X. F. Lu, S. L. Zhang, W. L. Sim, S. Y. Gao, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22885.
- [3] L. Han, J. Xu, Y. Huang, W. J. Dong, X. L. Jia, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *32*, 2263.
- [4] Z. Y. Shao, Q. Zhu, ; Y. Sun, Y. Zhang, Y. L. Jiang, S. Q. Deng, W. Zhang, K. K. Huang, S. H. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110172.
- [5] Y. Q. Wang, S. Tao, H. Lin, G. P. Wang, K. N. Zhao, R. M. Cai, K. W. Tao, C. X. Zhang, M. Z. Sun, J. Hu, B. L. Huang, S. H. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *81*, 105606.
- [6] L. Lv, Z. X. Yang, K. Chen, C. D. Wang, Y. J. Xiong, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 201803358.
- [7] Y. Wang, Y. L. Zhu, S. L. Zhao, S. X. She, F. F. Zhang, Y. Chen, T. Williams, T. Gengenbach, L. H. Zu, H. Y. Mao, W. Zhou, Z. P. Shao, H. T. Wang, J. Tang, D. Y. Zhao, C. Selomulya, *Matter* **2020**, *3*, 2124.
- [8] M. B. Stevens, C. Trang, L. Enman, J. Deng, S. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 11361.
- [9] M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329.
- [10] M. S. Burke, M. G. Kast, L. Trotochaud, A. M. Smith, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 3638.
- [11] S. A. Chala, M.-C. Tsai, B. W. Olbasa, K. Lakshmanan, W.-H. Huang, W.-N. Su, Y.-F. Liao, J.-F. Lee, H. J. Dai, B. J. Hwang, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 14996.
- [12] B. Wu, S. Gong, Y. C. Lin, T. Li, ; A. Y. Chen, M. Y. Zhao, Q. J. Zhang, L. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, 2108619.
- [13] D. W. Chen, L. T. Xu, X. R. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. D. Wang, Y. Y. Zhou, S. Q. Du, Q. L. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. L. Liu, Y. Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Q. Zou, Y. F. Li, Q. H. Liu, S. Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7297.
- [14] J. N. Li, J. L. Li, T. Liu, L. Chen, Y. F. Li, H. L. Wang, X. R. Chen, M. Gong, Z.-P. Liu, X. J. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26656.
- [15] C. G. Kuai, Y. Wu, D. Y. Zhang, D. Sokaras, L. Q. Mu, S. Spence, D. Nordlund, F. Lin, X. W. Du, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6027.

- [16] L. Francas, S. Corby, S. Selim, D. Lee, C. A. Mesa, ̀ R. Godin, E. Pastor, I. E. L. Stephens, K.-S. Choi, J. R. Durrant, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5208.
- [17] S. Q. Zhang, Z. F. Zhang, Y. M. Si, D. Li, B. F. L. X. Yang, X. Liu, W. L. Dai, S. L. Luo, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 15238.
- [18] S. L. Li, Z. C. Li, R. G. Ma, C. L. Gao, L. L. Liu, L. P. Hu, J. L. Zhu, T. M. Sun, Y. F. Tang, D. M. Liu, J. C. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3773.
- [19] M. Kim, B. Lee, H. Ju, S. W. Lee, J. Kim, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1901977.
- [20] L. Z. Wang, J. Qin, Z. M. Bai, H. M. Qian, Y. Y. Cao, H. M. K. Sari, Y. K. Xi, H. Shan, S. Wang, J. X. Zuo, X. H. Pu, W. B. Li, J. J. Wang, X. F. Li, *Small Struct.* **2022**, *3*, 2100233.
- [21] J. D. Chen, F. Zheng, S. J. Zhang, A. Fisher, Y. Zhou, Z. Y. Wang, Y. Y. Li, B. B. Xu, J. T. Li, S. G. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 11342.
- [22] K. Wang, H. F. Du, S. He, L. Liu, K. Yang, J. M. Sun, Y. H. Liu, Z. Z. Du, L. H. Xie, W. Ai, W. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2005587.
- [23] Z. Qiu, C.-W. Tai, G. A. Niklasson, T. Edvinsson, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 572.
- [24] Y. D. Xue, Z. S. Fishman, J. A. Röhr, Z. Pan, Y. Wang, C. Zhang, S. Zheng, Y. Zhang, S. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 21918.
- [25] L. Yang, L. Xie, R. Ge, R. Kong, Z. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Yao, Y. Luo, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 19502.
- [26] Y. S. Jin, S. L. Huang, X. Yue, H. Y. Du, P. K. Shen, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 2359;
- [27] Z. X. Xu, Y. R. Ying, G. G. Zhang, K. Z. Li, Y. Liu, N. Q. Fu, X. Y. Guo, F. Yua, H. T. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 26130.
- [28] C. J. Hu, Y. F. Hu, C. H. Fan, L. Yang, Y. T. Zhang, H. X. Li, W. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19774.
- [29] K. Y. Zhu, X. F. Zhu, W. S. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 1252.
- [30] M. Asnavandi, Y. C. Yin, Y. N. Li, C. H. Sun, C. Zhao, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, 1515.
- [31] S. Niu, W.-J. Jiang, Z. X. Wei, T. Tang, J. M. Ma, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan,
- *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7005. [32] M. J. Liu, K.-A. Min, B. Han, L. Y. S. Lee, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, 2101281.
- [33] J. T. Zhang, L. Yu, Y. Chen, X. F. Lu, S. Y. Gao, X. W. D. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1906432.
- [34] L. J. Yang, H. Li, Y. Yu, Y. Wu, L. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *271*, 118939.
- [35] M. Fang, D. Han, W. B. Xu, Y. Shen, Y. M. Lu, P. J. Cao, S. Han, W. Y. Xu, D. L. Zhu, W. J. Liu, J. C. Ho, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2001059.
- [36] Y. G. Cong, Q. Tang, X. Y. Wang, M. L. Liu, J. H. Liu, Z. B. Geng, R. Cao, X. B. Zhang, W. Zhang, K. K. Huang, S. H. Feng, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 11743.
- [37] A. Grimaud, W. T. Hong, Y. Shao-Horn, J. M. Tarascon, *Nat. Mater.* **2016**, *15*, 121.
- [38] S. Zhang, S. Q. Gu, Y. Wang, C. Liang, Y. Yu, L. Han, S. Zheng, N. Zhang, X. S. Liu, J. Zhou, J. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 7389.
- [39] C.-F. Li, L.-J. Xie, J.-W. Zhao, L.-F. Gu, H.-B. Tang, L. R. Zheng, G.-R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202116934.
- [40] L. P. Wang, Y. J. Zhu, Y. Z. Wen, S. Y. Li, C. Y. Cui, F. L. Ni, Y. X. Liu, H. P. Lin, Y. Y. Li, H. S. Peng, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 10577.
- [41] W.-K. Han, J.-X. Wei, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, X. Peng, S. Zhao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202206050.
- [42] W.-K. Han, X.-P. Li, L.-N. Lu, T. Ouyang, K. Xiao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Chem. Commun.* **2020**, *56*, 11038.
- [43] A. Kumar, X. Liu, J. Lee, B. Debnath, A. Jadhav, X. Shao, V. Bui, Y. Hwang, Y. Liu, M. Kim, H. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6494.