---
source: Cai 等 - 2019 - Tracing the Origin of Visible Light Enhanced Oxygen Evolution Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 3.799s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:40:12.523619Z
---

**Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

# **Tracing the Origin of Visible Light Enhanced Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Chao Cai, Shaobo Han, Weinan Caiyang, Ruyi Zhong, Yongliang Tang, Matthew J. Lawrence, Qi Wang, Limin Huang,\* Yongye Liang, and Meng Gu\**

**Hybrid nanostructures with a plasmonic core and catalytic shell often show significantly enhanced catalytic efficiency under illumination of specific frequency. Excitation of localized surface plasmonic resonance on plasmonic metals under illumination can generate hot electrons that assist in the catalytic reaction. However, the correlation between the microstructural geometry, dielectric environment, internal energy flow in the hybrid structure, and the chemical reaction rate is so far not clear. Here, a composite with a plasmonic Au metal yolk and a nearly transparent Ni3S2 shell is designed to maximize the absorption of incident light by forming strong localized surface plasmonic resonance at the yolk as predicted by 3D finite element method. The incoming photoenergy is dominantly dissipated on the shell by forming electron–hole pairs, leading to higher energy flow rate for oxygen evolution reaction. The overpotential is 252 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and the catalytic activity of Au@Ni3S2 achieves ca. 85-fold that of pure Ni3S2 under illumination and surpasses the commercial IrO2 catalyst. The study opens the door of exploration of highly effective hybrid composite catalysts for energy applications.**

With the ever-increasing need of energy consumption, clean and sustainable energy production becomes very important. Hydrogen, H2, production from water electrolysis comes up as one of the best solutions, but its efficiency is often quite low due to the poor reaction kinetics in the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). The improvement of OER performance is crucial to achieving clean energy supply.[1] Localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR), as a unique phenomenon of

C. Cai, S. Han, Dr. R. Zhong, Dr. Q. Wang, Prof. L. Huang, Prof. Y. Liang, Prof. M. Gu Southern University of Science and Technology

E-mail: huanglm@sustc.edu.cn; gum@sustc.edu.cn C. Cai, S. Han, W. Caiyang School of Physics University of Electronic and Science Technology of China Chengdu 610054, P. R. China

Dr. Y. Tang School of Physical Science and Technology Southwest Jiaotong University Chengdu 610031, P. R. China

M. J. Lawrence School of Chemistry University of Birmingham Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK

Shenzhen 518055, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201801543.

**DOI: 10.1002/admi.201801543**

the interaction between light and matter, has attracted intensive research interest, due to its potential applications in water electrolysis,[1a] biosensors,[2] photochemical catalysis,[3] and optical heating.[4] LSPR modes are the collective oscillations of conduction band electrons at the interface between materials with negative and positive permittivity,[5] such as Au,[6] Ag,[5c] and Cu,[7] upon illumination with light of specific wavelengths. The electromagnetic field at the surface of the metals is amplified by the electron oscillations.[8] Such near field enhancement affords higher energy electrons, and therefore significantly promote the catalytic performance of the plasmonic metals.[9] The LSPR effect is highly dependent upon the physiochemical properties of the catalysts, such as morphology of the plasmonic metals and the localized electronic landscape.[7,10]

Effective utilization of the LSPR effect

for high-performance catalysis is require fine tuning of dielectric relaxation routes between the excited plasmonic metals and the surrounding substances.[11] For instance, when the plasmonic metals are nanosized (<30 nm), the LSPR decay would favor chemical transformation, as a result of nonthermalized charge-carriers distributing according to the Landau damping model.[12] So far, enormous efforts have been devoted to controlling the plasmon decay by designing distinctive plasmonic metal-containing nanostructures.[11a,13] Au nanoparticles (NPs) have been frequently studied as typical plasmonic metal catalysts.[5b,14] The deposition of Au NPs onto Ni(OH)2 nanosheets promoted electrochemical water oxidation under illumination, compared to bare Ni(OH)2 and bare Au NPs.[1a] Additionally, yolk– shell nanostructures (YSs) and core–shell nanostructures (CSs) possess the advantage of collection of radiative, energetic carriers at the shells from the high concentration of electron–hole pairs at the cores, and thus facilitate the charge transfer of the nanomaterials to the adsorbates.[8a,9a,b,e,15] Energy losses within the CSs can be minimized by weakening the scattering, and thus, the confinement of the illumination energy by LSPR can be maximized. The controllable dielectric relaxation of LSPR decay of YSs has been observed in Ag@Pt CSs nanostructures under wavelength-specific illumination.[15b] However, the energy transfer mechanism between the core/yolk and the shell in YSs is still unclear.

In this work, hybrid YSs with Au yolk (ca. 8 nm) and Ni3S2 shell (ca. 8 nm in thickness) were fabricated to promote the visible-light-assisted OER. The efficient harvesting of solar energy

**www.advmatinterfaces.de**

**Figure 1.** A) XRD patterns of Au@Ni3S2 and Ni3S2. Annotated Miller indices correspond to Au FCC (black) and Ni3S2 (blue). B) HAADF image of Au@Ni3S2 YSs; scale bar represents 100 nm. C) Element mapping of Au@Ni3S2 YSs; scale bar represents 20 nm.

was realized by LSPR of Au yolks in Au@Ni3S2, wherein the spatial electronic field distribution was determined by electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS). Theoretical calculations demonstrated that the specific YSs facilitate very high light absorption with minimal optical scattering in the shell. The migration of energetic electrons within the structure was investigated. The incoming energy was dominantly dissipated on the shell, and the ratio of dissipation to chemical energy was remarkably increased through the LSPR confined in the Au@Ni3S2 structure.

Detailed experimental procedures for the synthesis of Au@ Ni3S2 are presented in the Supporting Information. **Figure 1**A shows the powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of Au@Ni3S2 and Ni3S2. The characteristic diffraction peaks of both Au facecentered cubic (FCC) and heazlewoodite Ni3S2 (rhombohedral structure) are observed. Figure 1B shows the morphology of Au@ Ni3S2 YSs with diameter of 25 ± 0.27 nm as revealed by high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) imaging (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The brighter yolks, which were assigned to Au, are all covered with the darker Ni3S2 shells; there is a ca. 1 nm gap between yolk and shell. The elemental mappings (Au, Ni, and S) obtained by energydispersive X-ray spectroscopy are displayed in Figure 1C. They unambiguously demonstrate the Au@Ni3S2 yolk@shell structure and suggest that the shell thickness is ca. 8 nm. The diameter of the Au NPs was 8.2 ± 0.21 nm, while the pure Ni3S2 exists aggregates of small NPs (Figure S1, Supporting Information).

The chemical state of Ni in Au@Ni3S2 and Ni3S2, as determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, are presented in Figure S2 in the Supporting Information. Au@Ni3S2 and Ni3S2 show similarly intense peaks at 870.6 eV for Ni 2p1/2 and 853.5 eV for Ni 2p3/2, corresponding to Ni atoms bonded to S.[16] Moreover, two shake up satellite peaks at 876.6 and 859.4 eV are observed for both catalysts.[17] However, the Ni0 peak in Au@Ni3S2, located at ca. 850 eV, is redshifted 1 eV relative to the Ni° component peak in Ni3S2. This shift is indicative of strong electronic coupling between the Au yolk and Ni3S2 shell, feasibly caused by the lower ionization energy of Au (9.22 eV) relative to Ni (7.63 eV).[18]

Spot analysis of EELS was performed on a single Au@Ni3S2 NP (**Figure 2**). Three spots were picked to ascertain the spatial electronic field distribution: the interface of Au and Ni3S2, in the Ni3S2 shell and on the external surface of the hybrid NP. The consistency of the EELS peak position of a single Au@Ni3S2 and the optical absorption peak of Au@Ni3S2 YSs points out that the resonance frequency of Au@Ni3S2 YSs is not altered by the aggregation state and the Au yolks in YSs are free from LSPR coupling even if the NPs are in close proximity. As shown in Figure 2B, the highest electron field density was observed at the interface between Au and Ni3S2, suggesting that the highest intensity of LSPR occurs at the Au yolk, consistent with previously reported Au@TiO2, [9b] Au@SiO2, [19] and Au@Cu2O[20] structures. Besides, all three spots show EELS peaks at ca. 2.5 eV (corresponding to light energy with a 500 nm wavelength), and the peak for the differential spectrum between spots 1 and 2 is also located at 2.5 eV (Figure 2B), indicating a homogeneously distributed electronic field within the shell. Therefore, the incoming photoenergy absorbed by Au yolk dissipated through formation of LSPR into the catalytic active Ni3S2 shell, leading to theoretically highest OER performance with around 500 nm wavelength light illumination.

UV–vis spectra are presented in Figure 2C, with the corresponding full width at half maxima tabulated in Table S1 in the Supporting Information. The Au@Ni3S2 YSs NPs show a broader, blueshifted plasmon peak. The observed increase in peak width is caused by interface damping of Au@Ni3S2 YSs and is indicative of an increase in the relaxation time of photogenerated e−/h<sup>+</sup> pairs.[21] The blueshift corresponds to the higher dielectric constant of the Ni3S2 shell compared to vacuum.[19] The large skin depth of light is a fundamental parameter to enable the LSPR modes decay on Au yolk. Since

**www.advmatinterfaces.de**

**Figure 2.** A) Single Au@Ni3S2 particle selected-point EELS spectra. Scale bar represents 10 nm. B) Corrected EELS spectrum of spot 1 (black circle in (A)). C) extinction spectra of Au, Ni3S2, and Au@ Ni3S2. D) 3D FEM simulation of electric field distribution of half of a Au@Ni3S2 YS particle. E) Field enhancement of Au@Ni3S2 as a function of incident wavelength. F) Radiative absorption of individual components in Au@Ni3S2.

the shell thickness (ca. 8 nm) is far smaller than theoretic value (144 nm), basing on the skin depth of Ni3S2 (Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information), the Ni3S2 shell in YSs is almost transparent to light.

3D electrodynamic finite element method (FEM) modelling was conducted to simulate Au LSPR and verify the pronounced near field enhancement. The results indicated that field energy at the surface of Au could be strengthened by about 220% upon incident irradiation by 500 nm light (Figure S5C, Supporting Information). The high efficiency interband transitions of Au facilitate strong absorption in the region of the plasmon resonance, thus promoting the formation of electron–hole pairs. Furthermore, it has been reported that the catalytic activity of Au-Ni(OH)2 in alkaline solution increased by ca. 220% under incident light.[1a] With our Au@Ni3S2 YSs the electronic field strength at the Au surfaces was enhanced to ca. 610%, as shown by the FEM simulations in Figure 2D,E, and the strengthened field appeared to be confined to the yolk–shell interfacial gap. This suggested that the Au yolk was the predominant acceptor of incident energy. A large fraction of plasmon resonance energy is dissipated through dielectric relaxation of materials and Figure 2F indicates that the most significant energy dissipation occurs at the Ni3S2 shell. The surrounded shell is the only channel of dissipating incoming light energy for promoting catalytic efficiency.[22] In these similar core–shell like nanostructures, chemical active shell is responsible for the highly promoted catalytic efficiency because of the preferential energy dissipation and triggered chemical transformation on the shell. Though the Ni3S2 shell has positive permittivity, the same mechanism of energy dissipation was assumed when comparing Au@Ni3S2 YSs to hypothetical YSs (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The results demonstrated that YSs benefitted from significantly higher relative absorption than their individual core components.

Nanomaterial surface scattering is the major obstacle to promoting the efficiency of light harvest. In our Au@Ni3S2 design, negligible optical scattering was observed (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Control experiments, in which the shell thickness was progressively increased, demonstrated that the ratio of relative shell to yolk absorption increased with shell thickness (Figure S9F, Supporting Information), suggesting that the shell light extinction is positively related to total volume. Furthermore, light extinction studies demonstrated that optical scattering was positively related to the geometrical cross-section (Figure S10, Supporting Information) and simulations revealed that the fraction of absorption is far larger than scattering in our YSs (Figure S10F, Supporting Information). More importantly, an enhancement threshold was observed in field enhancement studies (Figure S11, Supporting Information) where the maximum field strength was observed when the Ni3S2 shell thickness was ca. 8 nm, as was the case for our prepared YSs.

Single particle optical analysis in Figure 2D suggested that the incident energy is concentrated at the Au surface by confining LSPR in the interfacial YSs gap. In this specific YS, the photogenerated charge carriers predominantly migrated to the shell, significantly increasing the internal energy transfer from Au yolk to Ni3S2 shell, which is desirable for promoting the rate of reaction. Thus, OER activity was characterized using a standard three electrode system in oxygen saturated 1 m KOH. Xe lamp is used as visible light source (AM 1.5G, 100 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> close to 1 sun). Experiments are conducted in two conditions, including dark condition (postfixed with D) and illuminated with Xe lamp (postfixed with L). In addition,

**www.advmatinterfaces.de**

**Figure 3.** A) Polarization curves of Ni3S2, Au, and Au@Ni3S2 in different electrochemical characterization condition. Xe lamp (AM 1.5G, λ > 420 nm) used as the light source ("D" denotes a measurement conducted in the absence of light, i.e., dark and "L" denotes the presence of light). B) Tafel plots of Ni3S2 and Au@Ni3S2. Ni3S2 sample has nearly changes in the value of Tafel slope and Au@Ni3S2 have a larger decrease value of slopes. C) Mass activity is calculated from 1.45 to 1.55 V versus RHE. D) Specific density of Ni3S2 and Au@Ni3S2. Inset is the amplified image of Ni3S2-D. E) Polarization curves of Au@Ni3S2 under illumination by light of various wavelengths. F) Comparison of changes in the Ni oxidation peak as a function of the incident light wavelength, including peak position, charge, and extinction spectrum. The catalyst loading on glassy carbon electrode was ca. 0.114 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2.

control experiments are performed on pure Au and Ni3S2 particles in same conditions.

The photo-electrocatalytic activities of Au, Ni3S2, and the YSs were greatly improved under incident light in terms of overpotential, Tafel slope, and mass activity (Table S2, Supporting Information, and **Figure 3**A–C). Xe lamp (AM 1.5 G, λ > 420 nm) was applied as the light source. The poor light harvesting capability of Ni3S2, as demonstrated in Figure 2E, resulted in the least significant improvement in OER current density under illumination being observed for that material. (Figure 3A). Due to the LSPR of Au and the subsequent accelerated flow of internal energy, the electron transfer of YSs increased significantly and the charge transfer coefficient also largely increased under illumination compared to the experiment in dark.[23] Thus, the decrease of overpotential and Tafel slope were observed with light illumination. Other Au-based catalysts[1a] such as Au-Ni(OH)2 and Au-MoS2 have also shown similar enhanced activity in LSPR-assisted water electrolysis.[24] Our Au-Ni3S2 YSs achieved superior OER performance than commercial IrO2 (Figure S12, Supporting Information) and the lowest overpotential value (252 mV) at 10 mV cm−<sup>2</sup> for Au-based OER catalysts reported to date (Table S3, Supporting Information). Figure 3D summarizes the specific current density at 1.48 V. Au@Ni3S2, under light illumination, achieved specific current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , approximately three times that of the current density measured in the dark and ca. 85 times that obtained with Ni3S2 under illumination.

To investigate mechanism of light-assisted OER, electrochemical measurements of cyclic voltammetry (CV) and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) were performed. The energetic excitons generated by LSPR decay and lead to a nonthermalized population of vibrationally excited molecules, which generate charge carriers that participate in the electrochemical transformation.[11a] The yolk–shell geometry ensures that all the excited electron oscillations on Au yolks conduct to Ni3S2 shells. Thus, charge transfer between Au yolk and Ni3S2 shells can be monitored by CV and/or LSV under monochromatic light. Figure 3E shows the results of LSV measurements under illumination by light with wavelength between 400 and 650 nm and in the dark. The peak is related to the oxidation process of Ni2<sup>+</sup> to high valence Ni ions, such as Ni3<sup>+</sup>/Ni4<sup>+</sup> and the peak position reflects the surface electronic states,[25] which are closely related to synergism between yolk and shell in the catalysts. The Ni oxidation peak near 1.37 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) varies when illuminated by light of different discreet wavelengths. The slopes of Tafel plots are proximately 58 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Photocurrent test was also conducted by chronoamperometry and the results are shown in Figure S14 in the Supporting Information. With the light on and off, the current changed between the plateau of ca. 6.25 µA and 4.5 µA at the applied voltage of 1.1 V versus RHE (nondouble layer capacitor effect). However, compared to the increase of measured current (0.46 mA) during OER at 1.48 V versus RHE, the photocurrent is negligible in light-assisted OER.

Figure 3F presents the correlation of the integral area and position of Ni oxidation peak as a function of wavelength, respectively, during LSV measurement. Compared to the dark experiment, the peak areas are smaller and the peak positions are located at more positive potentials under illumination. The smaller peak area denotes lower quantity of Ni3<sup>+</sup>/Ni4<sup>+</sup> oxidation

**www.advmatinterfaces.de**

in the YSs shell of Au@Ni3S2, while the more positive potential indicates the higher energy barrier for the formation of Ni4<sup>+</sup>. These LSPR-generated energetic excitons, dissipated on the Ni3S2 shells by dielectric relaxation, would be responsible for the alterations of Ni oxidation peak under illumination. The charge carriers induced by LSPR modes have significantly shorter lifetime (ca. 10<sup>−</sup>14 s) than those in electrochemical transformation process (ca. 10<sup>−</sup><sup>5</sup> –10<sup>−</sup><sup>4</sup> s), whereby reducing the alteration frequency of the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ni4<sup>+</sup>, resulting in blueshift of Ni oxidation peak.[25] The Ni3S2 shell is charged after the light reduction occurring on Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ni4<sup>+</sup>. Thus, the value of shift in peak position is inversely proportional to the increase in light wavelength, while the measured value of charges in shell is positive. With the incident light frequency increasing (wavelength decreasing), the energetic charge carriers will increase in Au cores. These electrons reduce high valence Ni ions preferentially and thus lead higher potential to form high valence Ni ions. CV measurements confirm the same trends (Figure S15, Supporting Information). Under incident light of longer wavelength the LSPR induced interband transitions is weakened. Moreover, the energy dissipation increased with the decrease in wavelength, indicating that most of the incoming energy dissipated through the formation of electron–hole pairs in the Ni3S2 shell, leading to higher OER performance.

In addition, electrochemical impedance spectrums are used to clarify the accelerated mass transport efficiency of Au@Ni3S2 under light (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The Nyquist plots shows that Au@Ni3S2 has a larger decrease of resistance comparing to Ni3S2, demonstrating LSPR of Au core highly promoted the mass transport efficiency. Moreover, the high stability of Au@Ni3S2 under light condition is demonstrated, as shown in Figure S19 in the Supporting Information, in which Ni-based catalyst are stable in alkaline solution, highly agreeing with the previous report.[26]

In summary, Au@Ni3S2 YSs can be synthesized with controlled morphology. Through EELS and FEM modeling, the spatial distribution of LSPR is shown to be closely correlated with incident light wavelength and yolk–shell nanostructure ratios. The Au@Ni3S2 YSs show excellent OER activity, ca. 27-fold current density increase over pure Ni3S2 at 1.48 V versus RHE. The light illumination further promotes the OER activity to approximately threefold that of the "dark" measurements. The LSPR modes decay in the specific hybrid nanostructures with a plasmonic yolk (Au here) and traditional band metal shell (Ni3S2) account for the significant improvement. The accelerated internal energy flow is a fundamental factor in promoting chemical reaction rate. By monitoring the variation of the electrochemical properties, the dominant energy dissipation of incoming photoenergy is found to be via energetically charge carrier formation in Ni3S2 shells, which leads to higher energy transfer rate for OER reactions.

#### **Experimental Section**

Experimental details can be found in the Supporting Information.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

M.G. wishes to acknowledge the support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 21802065). The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) work was performed at the SUSTech Pico center that received funding from the Shenzhen government.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Keywords**

electrocatalysts, gold, localized surface plasmonic resonance (LSPR), nickel, photo-electrochemistry

> Received: October 5, 2018 Revised: November 16, 2018 Published online: December 3, 2018

- [1] a) G. Liu, P. Li, G. Zhao, X. Wang, J. Kong, H. Liu, H. Zhang, K. Chang, X. Meng, T. Kako, J. Ye, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 9128; b) J. Yang, C. Cai, Y. Li, L. Gao, H. Guo, B. Wang, B. Pu, X. Niu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *262*, 48; c) J. Yang, H. Guo, S. Chen, Y. Li, C. Cai, P. Gao, L. Wang, Y. Zhang, R. Sun, X. Niu, Z. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 13859; d) Q. Wang, Z. L. Zhao, S. Dong, D. He, M. J. Lawrence, S. Han, C. Cai, S. Xiang, P. Rodriguez, B. Xiang, Z. Wang, Y. Liang, M. Gu, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *53*, 458; e) C. Cai, Y. Mi, S. Han, Q. Wang, W. Liu, X. Wu, Z. Zheng, X. Xia, L. Qiao, W. Zhou, X. Zu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *295*, 92.
- [2] L. Shang, C. Liu, M. Watanabe, B. Chen, K. Hayashi, *Sens. Actuators, B* **2017**, *249*, 14.
- [3] H. Chen, L. Shao, Q. Li, J. Wang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2013**, *42*, 2679.
- [4] I. Aibara, J.-i. Chikazawa, T. Uwada, S. Hashimoto, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2017**, *121*, 22496.
- [5] a) Y. Zhang, S. He, W. Guo, Y. Hu, J. Huang, J. R. Mulcahy, W. D. Wei, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *118*, 2927; b) X. Liu, J. Iocozzia, Y. Wang, X. Cui, Y. Chen, S. Zhao, Z. Li, Z. Lin, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 402; c) L. Y. Hsu, W. Ding, G. C. Schatz, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2017**, *8*, 2357.
- [6] H.-E. Lee, H.-Y. Ahn, J. Mun, Y. Y. Lee, M. Kim, N. H. Cho, K. Chang, W. S. Kim, J. Rho, K. T. Nam, *Nature* **2018**, *556*, 360.
- [7] A. Marimuthu, J. Zhang, S. Linic, *Science* **2013**, *339*, 1590.
- [8] a) H. Cheng, X. Qian, Y. Kuwahara, K. Mori, H. Yamashita, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 4616; b) R. Jiang, B. Li, C. Fang, J. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 5274.
- [9] a) L.-T. Guo, Y.-Y. Cai, J.-M. Ge, Y.-N. Zhang, L.-H. Gong, X.-H. Li, K.-X. Wang, Q.-Z. Ren, J. Su, J.-S. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 388; b) Z. W. Seh, S. Liu, M. Low, S. Y. Zhang, Z. Liu, A. Mlayah, M. Y. Han, *Adv. Mater.* **2012**, *24*, 2310; c) X.-Q. Deng, B. Zhu, X.-S. Li, J.-L. Liu, X. Zhu, A.-M. Zhu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2016**, *188*, 48; d) Z. Sun, H. Zheng, J. Li, P. Du, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 2668; e) N. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Fu, Y.-J. Xu, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2011**, *115*, 9136; f) Z. Liu, W. Hou, P. Pavaskar, M. Aykol, S. B. Cronin, *Nano Lett.* **2011**, *11*, 1111; g) C. Sonnichsen, T. Franzl, T. Wilk, G. von Plessen, J. Feldmann, O. Wilson, P. Mulvaney, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2002**, *88*, 077402; h) K. Wu, J. Chen, J. R. McBride, T. Lian, *Science* **2015**, *349*, 632.
- [10] a) J. A. Scholl, A. L. Koh, J. A. Dionne, *Nature* **2012**, *483*, 421; b) M. Yilmaz, E. Babur, M. Ozdemir, R. L. Gieseking, Y. Dede, U. Tamer, G. C. Schatz, A. Facchetti, H. Usta, G. Demirel, *Nat.*

**www.advmatinterfaces.de**

- *Mater.* **2017**, *16*, 918; c) S. Liu, Z. Wang, S. Zhou, F. Yu, M. Yu, C. Y. Chiang, W. Zhou, J. Zhao, J. Qiu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1700874; d) R. G. Hobbs, W. P. Putnam, A. Fallahi, Y. Yang, F. X. Kartner, K. K. Berggren, *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, 6069; e) P. Christopher, H. Xin, S. Linic, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 467.
- [11] a) C. Boerigter, R. Campana, M. Morabito, S. Linic, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10545; b) K. Li, N. J. Hogan, M. J. Kale, N. J. Halas, P. Nordlander, P. Christopher, *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, 3710.
- [12] a) H. Cheng, M. Wen, X. Ma, Y. Kuwahara, K. Mori, Y. Dai, B. Huang, H. Yamashita, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 9316; b) I. Kriegel, F. Scotognella, L. Manna, *Phys. Rep.* **2017**, *674*, 1; c) F. Doveil, D. F. Escande, A. Macor, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2005**, *94*, 085003.
- [13] a) A. M. Brown, R. Sundararaman, P. Narang, W. A. Goddard 3rd, H. A. Atwater, *ACS Nano* **2016**, *10*, 957; b) M. Bernardi, J. Mustafa, J. B. Neaton, S. G. Louie, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 7044; c) C. Boerigter, U. Aslam, S. Linic, *ACS Nano* **2016**, *10*, 6108; d) S. Griffin, N. P. Montoni, G. Li, P. J. Straney, J. E. Millstone, D. J. Masiello, J. P. Camden, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2016**, *7*, 3825.
- [14] G. V. Hartland, L. V. Besteiro, P. Johns, A. O. Govorov, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2017**, *2*, 1641.

- [15] a) Y. Kim, J. G. Smith, P. K. Jain, *Nat. Chem.* **2018**, *10*, 763; b) U. Aslam, S. Chavez, S. Linic, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2017**, *12*, 1000.
- [16] J. Zhang, T. Wang, D. Pohl, B. Rellinghaus, R. Dong, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6702.
- [17] X. Xu, F. Song, X. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12324.
- [18] X. Wang, S. Sun, Z. Huang, H. Zhang, S. Zhang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2014**, *39*, 905.
- [19] W. Albrecht, T. S. Deng, B. Goris, M. A. van Huis, S. Bals, A. van Blaaderen, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 1818.
- [20] L. Zhang, D. A. Blom, H. Wang, *Chem. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 4587.
- [21] a) B. Lamprecht, J. R. Krenn, A. Leitner, F. R. Aussenegg, *Appl. Phys. B: Lasers Opt.* **1999**, *69*, 223; b) B. Lamprecht, J. R. Krenn, A. Leitner, F. R. Aussenegg, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1999**, *83*, 4421.
- [22] U. Aslam, S. Chavez, S. Linic, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2017**, *10*, 1000.
- [23] a) Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 2060; b) A. Holewinski, S. Linic, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2012**, *159*, H864.
- [24] Y. Shi, J. Wang, C. Wang, T. T. Zhai, W. J. Bao, J. J. Xu, X. H. Xia, H. Y. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 7365.
- [25] E. Kazuma, T. Tatsuma, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2013**, *117*, 2435.
- [26] L. L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G. D. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen, X. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14023.