---
source: Chand 等 - 2024 - Heterobimetallic Synergism in Triple‐Redox 2D Framework for Largely Boosted Water Oxidation and Flan.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 77.439s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:42:02.219633Z
---

# **Heterobimetallic Synergism in Triple-Redox 2D Framework for Largely Boosted Water Oxidation and Flanked Carboxylic-Acid-Triggered Unconventional Tandem Catalysis**

*Rudra Chand, Arun Karmakar, Subrata Kundu,\* and Subhadip Neogi\**

**A fish-bone-shaped and thermochemically stable 2D metal-organic framework (MOF) with multimodal active center-decked pore-wall is devised. Redox-active [Co2(COO)4] node and thiazolo[5,4-d]thiazole functionalization benefit this mixed-ligand MOF exhibiting electrochemical water oxidation with 375 mV overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density and 78 mV per dec Tafel slope in alkaline medium. Pair of oppositely oriented carboxylic acids aids postmetalation with transition metal ions to engineer heterobimetallic materials. Notably, overpotential of Ni2<sup>+</sup> grafted triple-redox composite reduces to 270 mV with twofold declined Tafel slope than the parent MOF, ranking among the best-reported values, and outperforming majority of related catalysts. Significantly, turnover frequency and charge transfer resistance display 35.5 and 1.4-fold upsurge, respectively, with much uplifted chronopotentiometric stability and increase active surface area owing to synergistic Co(II)–Ni(II) coupling. The simultaneous presence of** ─**COOH and nitrogen-rich moieties renders this hydrogen-bonded MOF as acid–base synergistic catalyst for recyclable deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction with** *>***99% product yield under solvent-free mild condition. Besides control experiments, unique role of** ─**COOH as hydrogen-bond donor site in substrate activation is validated from comparing the performances of molecular-shearing approach-derived structurally similar unfunctionalized MOF, and the heterobimetallic composite. To the best of tandem Knoevenagel condensation, larger-sized acetal exhibits poor yield of ,-unsaturated dicyanides, and demonstrates pore-fitting-mediated size-selectivity.**

R. Chand, A. Karmakar, S. Kundu, S. Neogi Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR) Ghaziabad 201002, India E-mail: [skundu@cecri.res.in;](mailto:skundu@cecri.res.in) [sneogi@csmcri.res.in](mailto:sneogi@csmcri.res.in) R. Chand, S. Neogi Inorganic Materials & Catalysis Division CSIR-Central Salt & Marine Chemicals Research Institute Bhavnagar, Gujarat 364002, India A. Karmakar, S. Kundu

Electrochemical Process Engineering (EPE) Division CSIR−Central Electrochemical Research Institute (CECRI) Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu 630003, India

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202404085>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202404085**

## **1. Introduction**

In view of carbon-free approach for the interconversion of electrical energy into chemical energy, electrochemical water splitting boomed as an environment friendly pathway for generating alternative energy sources.[\[1\]](#page-11-0) As a half-reaction in water decomposition, anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is crucial but faces challenges due to the multiple electron transfer process, prolonged kinetics, and a high positive Gibbs free energy.[\[2\]](#page-11-0) Thus, the demand for an efficient OER electrocatalyst to provide high current densities at low overpotentials is paramount. At present, noble metal oxides (RuO2 and IrO2) are the most effective OER catalysts.[\[3\]](#page-11-0) Nevertheless, their high cost, limited availability, and instability during bulk electrolysis prevent practical use and raised the quest to develop earth-abundant transition metal-based catalysts with improved performance.[\[4\]](#page-11-0) Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have received momentous attraction for a wide range of applications because of their various topology, tunable character, diversity of the metal centers and task-specific grafting of functional groups.[\[5\]](#page-11-0) These materials also emerged as suitable electrocatalysts due to the availability of pore-channel, which can accommodate space for the electrolytes, accelerates the diffusion of the

reactants and lift the conveyance of evolved oxygen gas.[\[6\]](#page-11-0) Specifically, the modulation of stacked 2D MOF sheet is an effective means to improve properties and promote their application in various fields, wherein Co(II)-based structures are promising due to their switchable redox features during OER.[\[7\]](#page-11-0) Further, astute design of catalytic centers via combining the aspects of synthetic strategy, chemical composition optimization, and functionalization at the molecular levels promises unfolding fundamental mechanisms in MOF-based water oxidation reaction (WOR).[\[8\]](#page-11-0) Even so, the electrocatalytic activity of single metalbased material is still poor. In this scenario, fabrication of stacked 2D structures through bottom-up self-assembly between suitable metal ions and organic linkers is softer and more controllable for a targeted application.[\[9\]](#page-11-0) For example, stacked MOFs are

advantageous in electrocatalysis because of high electron transfer ability, and long-term stability. As a step-forward, Co–Ni bimetallic sites have shown enormous activity boost due to the coupling effect between these 3d transition metals.[\[10\]](#page-11-0) However, poor chemical stability in certain MOFs often hinders their direct usability as electrocatalysts.[\[11\]](#page-11-0) Then again, strategic devising of heterobimetallic MOF to enhance current density by minimizing overpotential is still challenging and needs further development of novel approaches.

On the other hand, solvent-free tandem reactions gained massive consideration in comparison with conventional catalytic approaches. These reactions offer obvious advantages in terms of efficiency and environmental impact by reducing the a) generation of hazardous waste, b) exposure to toxic chemicals, c) costs of associated solvent, along with fewer purification steps due to in situ formed product. Furthermore, such reactions are aligned with the principles of "Green Chemistry" as they often proceed quickly under milder condition due to higher reactant concentrations, leading to improved energy efficiency.[\[12\]](#page-11-0) Specifically, atom economic deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction is important as it produces derivatives of benzylidene malononitrile, which are valuable intermediates for the production of cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, perfumes and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.[\[13\]](#page-11-0) Lewis acid-mediated Knoevenagel condensation in MOF requisites presence of open metal site (OMS) for effective MOF‒aldehyde interaction and subsequent activation to react with active methylene compound. However, majority of MOF structures collapse during the loss of metal-bound solvent molecules. As an effective alternative to OMS-mediated catalysis, hydrogen bond donor (HBD) emerged as potential pseudo-Lewisacidic compound, capable of activating electrophile towards nucleophilic addition via two-point hydrogen bonding interaction. In particular, HBD functionality-grafted linker even in OMSexcluded MOF can exhibit profound reactivity for the production of benzylidene malononitrile derivative, and offer obvious benefits in Knoevenagel condensation because of their heterogeneous nature, tunable porosity and maintenance of the postcatalytic structure.[\[14\]](#page-11-0) Although thiourea, urea, amidinium and guanidinium functionalities generally activate the substrate via two-point hydrogen bonding,[\[15\]](#page-11-0) these catalysts often dimerize/ oligomerize through intermolecular hydrogen bonding in homogeneous phase, which negatively affects the reactivity.[\[16\]](#page-11-0) Therefore, unprecedented methodology to dictate the overall synthetic efficacy for C─C bond formation is demanding. To address this issue, MOF acts as a potential platform to integrate homogeneous HBD sites via postsynthetic modification or using prefunctionalized linker over its backbone. Such uniform spatial regulation of the H-bonding responsive centers not only evades the possibility of self-quenching-induced catalyst deactivation but also resolves the separation difficulty.[\[17\]](#page-11-0) On a different note, deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction proceeds through the deprotection of acetal moiety by an acid, followed by condensation in the presence of a base. Therefore, acid–base dual siteengineered catalyst is principally appropriate to ensure fruitful tandem condensation. Given such antagonistic chemical sites may frequently countervail in a single system, judiciously self-assembled bi-functional MOF promises circumventing this issue.[\[18\]](#page-12-0) Furthermore, MOFs with optimized channels manifest a pore confinement phenomenon and lead to size-specific catalysis via excluding the diffusion of reactants with large molecular dimension.[\[19\]](#page-12-0) Here, it is worth mentioning that 2D stacked MOF sheets as organo-catalysts offer more surface accessibility with active sites toward substrates by overcoming the diffusion barrier, caused in 3D MOFs.

Considering the above, we developed a multifunctional Co(II) MOF using *C*<sup>3</sup> symmetric ligand and thiazole functionalized linker in the form of a 2D fishbone-type network FCG-2 (FCG = Framework Chemistry Group). The redox-active [Co2(COO)4] node and linker in the MOF supports alkaline medium electrochemical water oxidation (overpotential: 375 mV, Tafel slope: 78 mV per dec). An important aspect of FCG-2 is the presence of oppositely oriented free ─CO2H sites due to its stacked 2D structure. Post-metalation at flanked carboxylic acid with transition metals leads fabrication of M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>@FCG-2 (M = Mn, Fe, Ni). Among others, Ni2<sup>+</sup> grafted composite shows dramatically enhanced electrochemical WOR because of effective heterobimetallic coupling. Besides an impressive overpotential of 270 mV, the sharply reduced Tafel slope (41 mV per dec), 35.5-fold increased turnover frequency and substantially boosted chronopotentiometric stability renders high performance, which ranks among the topmost MOF catalysts and superior to commercial ones. The hydrogen-bonded parent framework catalyzes deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction with *>*99% yield under solvent-free mild condition and unveils molecular-dimensionmediated size-selectivity. The unique role of dangling ─COOH in HBD reaction is confirmed from controlled experiments, and comparing the activity losses in pendent-functionality-truncated isostructural MOF as well as in Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>@FCG-2. Though Lewis acid catalyzed tandem Knoevenagel condensation is separately reported, carboxylic acid groups as two-point hydrogen bond donor is hitherto unexplored for this catalysis in a synergistic manner. The results provide valuable insight on development of 2D MOF and their composites for benchmark water splitting, and executing tandem reactions via functionality fueling around optimized porous channel.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Crystal Structure and Detailed Characterization of the MOF**

Reddish orange-colored block-shaped crystals of FCG-2 were achieved by solvothermal reaction between Co(NO3)2, 4,4′,4″ nitrilotribenzoic acid (H3TCA) and 2,5-di(pyridin-4-yl)thiazolo- [5,4-d]thiazole (DPTz) (2:1:2) in dimethyl formamide (DMF) and water (1:1) mixture at 100 °C for 2 d. The framework crystallizes in triclinic space group *P*-1. Single-crystal X-ray diffraction (SCXRD) analysis revealed Co(II) ion, partially deprotonated ligand (HTCA2<sup>−</sup>: L) and linker, one each, in the asymmetric unit (Figure S1a, Supporting Information). Note that sulphur (S) and nitrogen (N) atoms of the DPTz linker are disordered over two positions because of the poor crystal and data quality (Table S2, Supporting Information). Individual Co(II) ion shows distorted octahedral geometry through ligation from four O atoms of three deprotonated carboxylate (average Co─O: 2.09 Å), and pyridyl nitrogen atoms of two linkers (average Co─N: 2.17 Å). Two Co(II) ions are joined by chelating bidentate carboxylate to form a dinuclear [Co2(COO)4] secondary building unit (SBU). Linkage among these SBUs via L form elliptical entities (**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-2-0),

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Pendant free carboxylic acid groups, and b) layer-stacked architecture of FCG-2. PXRD of the framework in c) different solvents, and d) under some drastic conditions. e) FE-SEM image and EDX analysis of FCG-2. f) XPS survey spectrum of FCG-2.

which are further attached by DPTz to create 2D-layered fish-bone shaped network. The neighboring 2D layers are stacked by ⋯ stacking from the aromatic rings of HTCA<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>. Strikingly, uncoordinated ─COOH groups of the ligand in the parallel 2D layers remain oppositely faced inside the pores (Figure 1b), provisioning a podium for post-metalation and/ or hydrogen-bonding interaction. Highly disordered electron cloud did not allow us to crystallographically map the lattice solvent molecules. Instead, their presences were ascertained from thermogravimetric weight loss and PLATON calculation,[\[20\]](#page-12-0) which endorsed the molecular formula [Co(TCA)(DPTz)]·DMF·H2O. Structural simplification by TOPOS[\[21\]](#page-12-0) reveals 2,3,5-c net topology with 3-nodal net (Figure S1d, Supporting Information) with the Schlafli symbol {42.6.86.12}{42.6}{8}.

Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) analysis (Figure 1c) revealed sharp peaks of the as-synthesized MOF, which are in decent agreement with the simulated FCG-2, delineating high crystallinity and phase purity. The lattice guest molecules in the assynthesized crystals were replaced by lower boiling methanol solvent. The guest-free structure was generated via thermal activation of the solvent-shuffled crystals (100 °C for 2 h), followed by overnight degassing in dynamic vacuum. Figure 1d shows that PXRD pattern of the activated MOF exhibits good resemblance with FCG-2, confirming stability after activation. The observed decrease in the O─H stretching frequency in the Fouriertransform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) after activation suggests (Figure S2, Supporting Information) liberation of hydrogenbonded guest molecules associated with free ─COOH groups. The MOF was able to maintain its structural integrity when immersed in water for 2 d (Figure 1d). The stability of the framework was also observed in different pH media and some known organic solvents (Figure 1c,d). Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) under N2 atmosphere (30‒800 °C) showed 9% weight loss (Cal. 10.9%) within 250 °C and remains stable up to 300 °C (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Afterwards, an abrupt weight loss eventuated because of structural breakdown. The block-shaped morphology of the MOF crystals (Figure 1e) from field emissionscanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) is comparable with the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure S4a, Supporting Information). TEM selected area diffraction pattern (SAED) of FCG-2 (Figure S4b, Supporting Information) supported its crystalline nature. Further, SEM energy-dispersive Xray analysis (EDX) showed presence of all MOF forming elements over the surface (Figure S5, Supporting Information).

The chemical states of elements on the surface of FCG-2 were studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), which confirms (Figure 1f) the presence of Co, C, N, O, and S in the material.[\[21\]](#page-12-0) The high-resolution Co spectrum revealed peaks at binding energies of 780.9 and 796.9 eV with a spin-energy difference of ≈15 eV, designated to Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2 spin–orbit peaks,[\[22\]](#page-12-0) respectively (Figure S6a, Supporting Information). Further, two distinct satellite peaks were observed at 785.2 and 802.3 eV for Co 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 respectively.[\[23\]](#page-12-0) The deconvoluted C 1s spectrum (Figure S6b, Supporting Information) exhibited three peaks at binding energies 284.7, 285.9 and 288.05 eV, corresponding to C─C, C─O and C═O bonding.[\[24\]](#page-12-0) The deconvoluted O 1s XPS spectrum (Figure S6c, Supporting Information) displayed two peaks at 531.4 and 533.1 eV related to Co─O and C─O moieties.[\[25\]](#page-12-0) The peak at 399.6 eV corresponds to the Co─N bond in the high-resolution N 1s spectrum (Figure S6d,

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Linear sweep voltammetry of FCG-2 along with other commercially available catalysts. b) Tafel's plot for the FCG-2 along with other commercially used catalysts. c) Electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) of FCG-2 at 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. d) Cyclic voltammetry of parent and Ni2<sup>+</sup> grafted MOF revealing characteristics oxidation peak of involved metal ions. e) Electrochemical active surface area comparison of FCG-2 and M2+@FCG-2 (M = Mn, Fe, Ni). f) TOF values of FCG-2, its postmetalated compounds, and other commercial catalysts.

Supporting Information).[\[26\]](#page-12-0) Further, peaks at 164.8 and 165.9 eV are designated to S 2p3/2 and S 2p1/2, respectively, in the high-resolution S 2p spectrum (Figure S6e, Supporting Information).[\[27\]](#page-12-0) Given the activated MOF shows negligible N2 uptake (Figure S7, Supporting Information) at 77 K, we performed CO2 adsorption at 195 K (Figure S8, Supporting Information) to get an idea on the porosity. The isotherm displayed a maximum uptake of 62 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1, corresponding to Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area of 394.18 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1.

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Water Oxidation of the MOF**

Dual assembly of electrochemically dynamic DPTz linker and redox-active [Co2(COO)4] SBU, coupled with the presence of highly conjugative aromatic strut and alkaline medium stability led us studying the electrocatalytic water oxidation potential of FCG-2. Using the activated MOF as working electrode, carbon cloth as counter electrode and Hg/HgO as reference electrode, the OER activity was assessed through linear sweep voltammetry (LSV or polarization study) at pH 14 (1.0 m KOH) under a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. For comparison, the electrochemical activities of commercial and benchmark catalysts were also executed under akin conditions. As depicted in **Figure 2**a, the MOF required 375 mV overpotential to reach the benchmark current density (10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), which is comparable to commercially available standard catalyst (RuO2: 370 mV), but lower than NiO (405 mV), Co3O4(430 mV) and some previously reported Co(II) frameworks (Table S4, Supporting Information). However, the overpotential value is not among the best reported Co(II) MOF catalysts, and provides an opportunity to boost its performance via molecular level engineering (vide infra). Cyclic voltammetry (CV) of the MOF revealed a prominent quasi-reversible couple (Figure 2d) endorsing the Co<sup>+</sup><sup>2</sup>→Co<sup>+</sup><sup>3</sup> oxidation. The Tafel plot, extracted from the LSV study, exhibited a Tafel slope of 78 mV per dec (Figure 2b) that designates superior charge transfer in activated FCG-2 at the electrolyte-electrode interface compared to commercial (IrO2: 100.47 mV per dec, Co3O4: 92 mV per dec, NiO: 84 mV per dec) and many other MOF catalysts (Figure 2b and Table S4, Supporting Information). It may be noted that this value is comparable to state-of-the-art RuO2 (74 mV/dec). The long-term electrochemical durability of the framework is tested from chronopotentiometry study at a current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The *j– t* curve displayed 23 h of stability with no degradation (Figure S10, Supporting Information) and merely altered overpotential (21 mV) after 1000 cycles. Further, pH-dependent OER studies (Figures S11 and S12, Supporting Information) divulged that O2 evolution simultaneously increases upon raise in the pH of the solution, which is accredited to accumulation of more number of OH‒ ions on the catalyst surface. In addition, the Nyquist plot (Figure 2c) showed lower charge transfer resistance (*R*ct: 5.9 Ω) than that of commercial NiO (10.37 Ω), Co3O4 (8.35 Ω), and RuO2 (34.17 Ω), implying faster charge transfer in this layerstacked structure. The faradaic efficiency (FE) has been assessed

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) EDX analysis (inset: FE-SEM image) and b) elemental mapping of the heterobimetallic composite Ni2+@FCG-2 highlighting the presence of respective elements. c) High-resolution XPS spectrum of Ni 2p for Ni2+@FCG-2. d) Linear sweep voltammetry e) Tafel's plot f) Electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) at 20 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (inset shows the comparison of *R*ct values of the different catalyst) of M2+@FCG-2 (M = Mn, Fe, Ni).

via gas chromatography (GC) for measuring the evolved oxygen gas while chronoamperometry was studied for 1 h at a time interval of 12 (Figure S14, Supporting Information). Calculated FE (81.25%) is comparable to reported transition metal-based MOFs (Table S4, Supporting Information) and confirm activated FCG-2 as an efficient OER catalyst. Further studies on electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), turnover frequency (TOF) and roughness factor (*R*f) provided insights on the intrinsic activities of the catalyst. ECSA is the ratio of electrochemical double layer capacitance (*C*dl) produced via charge build-up at the non-faradaic part and specific capacitance (*C*s) of a plane surface of the working electrode. The *C*dl value was obtained from the slope of the cyclic voltammetry at diverse scan rates of 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with current density, and found to be 3.33 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2. Surmising on typical specific capacitance (*C*s) value of 0.040 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, ECSA turned to be 83.5 cm<sup>2</sup> (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0), which states highly interactive and exposed surface area of the catalyst. The roughness factor was calculated from dividing the ECSA by the geometric surface area of the electrode (1.0 cm2), yielding a value of 83.5. This, in turn, resulted in a turnover frequency (TOF) value of 1.74 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0), which is superior to others.

#### **2.3. Development of Heterobimetallic Composites and Advanced OER Performance**

An interesting structural feature of FCG-2 is that two exposed carboxylic acid groups are oppositely arranged, which facilitates binding with a secondary redox-active metal species. Building on this, we ventured incorporating redox-active, non-noble transition metal ions to fabricate hetero-bimetallic composites M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>@FCG-2 (M = Mn, Fe, Ni) for boosting the electrochemical OER performance of parent MOF. The synthetic details of all MOF composites are detailed in the experimental section. Further characterization revealed unaltered PXRD patterns (Figure S15, Supporting Information), delineating maintenance of framework integrity after secondary metal ion grafting. Moreover, SEM (Figures S16 and S17 Supporting Information) and TEM (Figure S18, Supporting Information) images of all postmetalated materials showed preservation of the block-shaped morphology of the pristine framework while TEM-SAED patterns endorsed their crystalline nature. As a representative example, we presented FE-SEM image (**Figure 3**a) and SEM-EDX analysis of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>@FCG-2 (Figure 3b), which support the successful incorporation of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ion into the framework. To check the binding between the MOF and grafted metal ion, we analyzed FT-IR spectrum of M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>@FCG-2 that clearly depicted disappearance of the O─H stretching frequency due to the co-ordination of deprotonated O atom of dangling ─CO2H group with the metal ion (Figure S19, Supporting Information). Further, slight shift in C═O stretching frequency of free carboxylic acid moiety of FCG-2 to the lower wave number region corroborates metal coordination with the flanked carboxylic acid. The attachment of M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to the free carboxylic acid group of FCG-2 is further justified from the XPS analysis (Figures S20–S22 Supporting Information). For Ni2<sup>+</sup>@FCG-2, two prominent peaks (Figure 3c) at energy levels of 855.6 and 873.4 eV, originate from the binding energies of Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, respectively.[\[28\]](#page-12-0) These peaks exhibit a spin energy separation of ≈17.5 eV. Additionally, accompanying shake-up satellites are observed at 861.8 and 879.7 eV.[\[29\]](#page-12-0)

SMQ

16138289, 2024. 40, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202404085 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

The high resolution XPS spectrum of O 1s reveals 0.3 eV shift of C—O toward higher binding energy value (Figure S20b, Supporting Information) because of its coordination to the available —CO<sub>2</sub>H site.

Subsequently, we executed water oxidation reaction of the triple-redox MOF composites in a three-electrode system (vide supra) that showed (Figure 3d) significantly lowered (270 mV) overpotential for Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 to reach the benchmark current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under similar measurement conditions (5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, 1.0 м KOH). Amazingly, the magnitude of the Tafel slope (Figure 3e) of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 (41 mV per dec) is 37 mV per dec lower than the pristine framework and stands best among all of the hetero-bimetallic composites. Moreover, this value is much reduced to commercially available materials, indicating its highest rate of electron transfer among all of the said interfaces (Table S4, Supporting Information). This particular MOFcomposite furnished obvious improvement in the current density with growing pH of the solution (Figure \$23, Supporting Information), and points to boosted OER activity as concentration of OH ions rises. Such a high-performance catalytic activity of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 was deemed to be arising from the synergetic effect between the two different redox-active metals, which modulated the conductivity and electronic structure (vide infra).[30] Accordingly, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) study was endeavored, which depicted that  $R_{ct}$  value (Figure 3f) of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 (4.03  $\Omega$ ) is 1.4 times lower than that of H-bonded pristine framework, and superior to  $M^{2+}$ @FCG-2 (M = Mn, Fe). Such an outcome designates smoother and faster charge transfer in the heterobimetallic composite compared to FCG-2 because of efficient Co-Ni coupling.[31] In a pH-dependent EIS study (Figure S24, Supporting Information); we noted that the  $R_{ct}$  of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 diminished at higher pH levels, signifying an expedited charge transfer. A chronopotentiometric study at a current density of 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> demonstrated increased chemical stability of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 (25 h) compared to FCG-2 without any structural change (Figure \$25, Supporting Information). Moreover, only a marginal 4.0 mV overpotential change was observed after 1000 cycles (Figure 3d). These outcomes evidently highlight the increased robustness of the framework upon Ni(II) incorporation. Moreover, cyclic voltammetry (CV) analysis of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 exhibited a prominent quasi-reversible redox couple, indicating the oxidation processes of Co<sup>+2</sup>/Co<sup>+3</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup>, which also supports Co-Ni synergism (Figure 2d). To our delight, re-

dox peak area after nickel ion incorporation is threefold compared to FCG-2 (Figure S27, Supporting Information) and higher than other two heterobimetallic materials, which leads to more number of OH<sup>-</sup> ions adsorption on the surface, thereby delivering pronounced electrochemical activity. FE measurement showed 93.3% for Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 (Figure S28, Supporting Information), suggesting that the applied current is nearly fully utilized to produce O<sub>2</sub>. To unveil the reason for highest OER activity of the bimetallic composite, the ECSA (Figure 2e) is estimated by measuring the C<sub>dl</sub> of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 coated electrode. The result indicates higher C<sub>dl</sub> (3.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and increased active surface area (90 cm<sup>2</sup>), illustrating more exposed active sites upon grafting of Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions in FCG-2. On the other hand, TOF stands for the production rate of evolved gas molecules per surface of metal atom.[32] Outstandingly, TOF for Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 turned out to be 35.5 times (61.82 s<sup>-1</sup>) larger than the pristine framework, and ranks highest among all the post-metalated frameworks (Figure 2f). It may be emphasized that this TOF value is far superior to commercially available catalysts as well as reported high-performing MOFs (Table S4, Supporting Information).[33] These values evidently ascribes the positive effect of introducing redox-active Ni<sup>2+</sup> metal ion to a 2D MOF in remarkable improvement of the OER performance.[34] To crosscheck the catalyst stability, we inspected the PXRD patterns of all the studied materials after OER, and found good agreement of peaks with the as-synthesized ones (Figure S30, Supporting Information). Further, FE-SEM (Figure \$31, Supporting Information) as well as TEM results (Figure \$32, Supporting Information) depicted unaltered morphologies after water oxidation reaction, and suggest no degradation of any of the studied frameworks under the applied electrochemical conditions. Also, in-depth XPS analysis divulged nearly identical peak position and intensities in all three post-metalated frameworks (Figure \$33, Supporting Information). Moreover, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) revealed negligible leaching of metal ions.

Based on the experimental outcome and literature reports,<sup>[35]</sup> a probable mechanistic route of FCG-2 and Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 catalyzed OER reaction is shown in **Scheme 1**. At first, hydroxide ions (OH<sup>-</sup>) interact with the metal center, giving rise to M···O—H adducts. Next, the presence of another OH<sup>-</sup> ion generates M···O species through water elimination. Subsequently, metal-oxyhydroxide (M···OOH) complex is produced by ensuing attack of a third OH<sup>-</sup>. It is worth noting that introduction of Ni<sup>2+</sup>

 $\textbf{Scheme 1.} \ \ \textbf{Schematic representation of OER mechanism with corresponding RDS before and after Ni^{+2} incorporation. }$ 

<span id="page-6-0"></span>

Scheme 2. Tandem synthesis of benzylidenemalononitrile from (dimethoxymethyl)benzene.

ion can principally reduce the energy barrier that forms OOH and promote the electrical conductivity in Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2.<sup>[36]</sup> Finally, one hydroxyl ion deprotonates the metal-oxyhydroxide species to remove H<sub>2</sub>O and liberated oxygen from the metal center to regenerate the catalyst. As per the previous reports, [37] the Tafel slope of 120, 60, and 40 mV per dec of any OER catalyst resembles the first step (one-electron transfer), second step (twoelectrons transfer), and third step (three-electrons transfer), respectively, as the rate-determining step (RDS). Based on the Tafel slope value of the pristine framework (78 mV per dec) and Ni(II)grafted material (41 mV per dec), the second step is RDS for the former while the third step is RDS for Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2. On a different note, Co(II) species are generally considered as the main active centers for Ni—Co bimetallic electrocatalysts, wherein presence of Ni2+ can adjust the local electronic structure of Co(II) sites, thereby improving OER activity.[38] In the high-resolution Co 2p scan, the XPS signals shift to the lower binding energies in Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2.<sup>[39]</sup> To precisely rationalize specific transfer processes and involved kinetic factors in much improved OER performance of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 and further validate the effect of hetero-atom-rich aromatic ligands, we compared the electrocatalytic activity of hydroxide-coordinated NiCo-based catalyst, NiCo-LDH (layered double hydroxides). The LSV polarization reveals 303 mV overpotential to drive a 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> current density, which is 33 mV higher than that of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 (Figure S34b, Supporting Information). In both LDH and Ni-grafted MOF with similar metal ions, the clear difference in electrochemical performance originates due to the different attainment of the extent of metal ions in the activation process. From previous finding, we note that the preferable active site in NiCo-LDH is Co<sup>2+</sup>.[40] This is further confirmed from its CV analysis, which shows characteristics oxidation peak corresponding to  $Co^{2+} \rightarrow Co^{3+}$ conversion, but oxidation maxima for Ni<sup>2+</sup>→Ni<sup>3+</sup> conversion is absent (Figure S34c, Supporting Information). In contrast, activation of both the metal ions to corresponding higher oxidation states is found in Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 (Figure S34c, Supporting Information). Therefore, synergistic cooperation between two metal ions through the participation of electron-rich ligands is crucial in propagating the OER process. The importance of such cooperative interaction is further proven from the  $R_{ct}$  information of all the studied MOFs (Figure 3f). The results unveil that grafting of Fe<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions result improved charge transfer kinetics as compared to FCG-2. In contrast, an increase in the  $R_{ct}$  value could be observed in Mn<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2, which is also reflected from its higher overpotential compared to FCG-2 (Figure 3d,e). This fact is ascribed to the oxidation of Mn2+ to Mn4+, which would adsorb the -OOH species very strongly and deactivate the catalyst as highlighted previously.[41] Therefore, synergistic cooperation through the electron-rich organic ligand is crucial in determining

the charge transfer kinetics at the interface. The above outcomes corroborate that grafting of Ni<sup>2+</sup> ion render the highest ability of the material to accept electrons during water oxidation among all the studied catalysts, thereby influencing the coupling effect between Ni and Co to drastically improve the OER performance.

## 2.4. Solvent-Free Deacetalization-Knoevenagel Condensation Reaction

Since FCG-2 exemplifies unique acid-base bi-functional character by virtue of dangling carboxylic acid from N-bridgehead HTCA<sup>2-</sup> and presence of thiazolo[5,4-d]thiazole from DPTz, we expect the material to be applied for Knoevenagel condensation. In particular, the pair of —COOH group can facilitate the

**Table 1.** Optimization of reaction conditions for solvent-free deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction.

| Entry <sup>a)</sup> | Catalyst                | Temperature [°C] | Time [min] | Yield <sup>h)</sup> [%] |
|---------------------|-------------------------|------------------|------------|-------------------------|
| 1.                  | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | 60 <sup>b)</sup>        |
| 2.                  | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | 56 <sup>c)</sup>        |
| 3.                  | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | 81 <mark>d)</mark>      |
| 4.                  | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | >99                     |
| 5.                  | FCG-2                   | R.T.             | 120        | 15                      |
| 6.                  | FCG-2                   | 40               | 120        | 53                      |
| 7.                  | FCG-2                   | 50               | 120        | 74                      |
| 8.                  | FCG-2                   | 60               | 120        | 88                      |
| 9.                  | FCG-2                   | 80               | 120        | 99                      |
| 10.                 | FCG-2                   | 70               | 30         | 53                      |
| 11.                 | FCG-2                   | 70               | 60         | 76                      |
| 12.                 | FCG-2                   | 70               | 90         | 90                      |
| 13.                 | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | 56 <sup>e)</sup>        |
| 14.                 | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | 82 <sup>f)</sup>        |
| 15.                 | FCG-2                   | 70               | 120        | 99 <sup>g)</sup>        |
| 16.                 | H <sub>3</sub> TCA      | 70               | 120        | 20                      |
| 17.                 | $Co(NO_3)_2$            | 70               | 120        | 36                      |
| 18.                 | DPTz                    | 70               | 120        | 40                      |
| 19.                 | _                       | 70               | 120        | n.r.                    |
| 20.                 | CSMCRI-28               | 70               | 120        | 18                      |
| 21.                 | Ni <sup>2+</sup> @FCG-2 | 70               | 120        | 70                      |
| 22.                 | 0.1 mmol HCl            | 70               | 120        | 98 ( <b>1B</b> )        |
| 23.                 | Et <sub>3</sub> N       | 70               | 120        | Trace                   |

a) Optimized conditions: **1A** (0.5 mmol), malononitrile (0.5 mmol), time: 2 h; b) In DMSO; c) In acetonitrile; d) In ethanol; e) Using 3 mol% catalyst; f) Using 5 mol% catalyst; g) Using 8 mol% catalyst. R.T.: room temperature, n.r.: no reaction; h) Yields (%) were calculated based on 1 H NMR analysis.

**Figure 4.** Time variant 1H NMR for solvent-free deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction, catalyzed by FCG-2, showing maximum product conversion within 2 h under optimized condition.

deprotection of an acetal moiety followed by abstraction of the methylene proton of malononitrile via Lewis basic sites to promote tandem deacetalization-Knoevenagel condensation (**Scheme [2](#page-6-0)**). Accordingly, the reaction was executed in a 15 mL sealed tube by using (dimethoxymethyl)benzene (**1A**: 0.5 mmol) and malononitrile (0.5 mmol) as model substrate. The influence of temperature, solvent, catalyst amount, and time were thoroughly studied, and the product conversion was calculated from 1H NMR. Screening experiments in the presence of organic solvents (acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, ethanol) (**Table [1](#page-6-0)**, entries 1–3) and under solvent-free conditions (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry 4) divulged maximum conversion when no solvent was deployed. On the other hand, room temperature reaction yielded 15% product (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry-5), which increased with rising temperature and attained maximum at 70 °C (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entries 6–8). Afterward, temperature did not play any significant role in the rate of the reaction (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry 9). Subsequent variations in the catalyst amount at 70 °C revealed that 8 mol% of FCG-2 is convenient for this solvent-free deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entries 13–15).

Duration of the reaction has been verified from timedependent catalytic studies (**Figure 4**), which showed the condensation completes in just 2 h. Accordingly, the optimized condition for this reaction was established as 8 mol% of FCG-2 at 70 °C in 2 h. A comparison of catalytic performance of this hydrogen-bonded 2D MOF with previously reported systems shows superior efficiency in view of solvent-free and mildcondition tandem reaction (**Figure 5**[a;](#page-8-0) Table S5, Supporting Information). A series of control experiments were conducted to affirm that the reaction did not proceed well with the metal salt or by individual organic parts (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entries 16, 17, 18). Then again, catalysis barely occurred in the absence of any catalyst (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry 19), which was additionally confirmed from a hotfiltration test (Figure [5b\)](#page-8-0). In separate experiments, we studied tandem Knoevenagel condensation using structurally equivalent unfunctionalized CSMCRI-28, and post-metalated Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>@FCG-2, which revealed 18% (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry 20) and 70% (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry 21) yields, respectively. These studies indicated the occurrence of the tandem catalysis through pendent carboxylic acid (vide infra).

The recyclability of the material was surveyed by separating the catalyst through centrifugation followed by rinsing with methanol and successive activation at 100 °C for 2 h. The regenerated MOF depicted a minute loss in activity even after five successive reaction cycles (Figure [5c\)](#page-8-0). The PXRD pattern (Figure S35, Supporting Information) of the recovered catalyst exhibited good agreement of peaks with the pristine framework. The recovered catalyst's FE-SEM (Figure S36, Supporting Information) and TEM images (Figure S37, Supporting Information) showed an untainted surface morphology, while XPS analysis (Figure S38, Supporting Information) depicted similar pattern and intensity. A lack of leaching of Co(II) ions (0.0342 ppm) during catalysis was confirmed by ICP-MS analysis. All these post-catalytic characterization results established the excellent sturdiness of the material during tandem Knoevenagel condensation.

#### **2.5. Substrate Scope and Size Selectivity in the Tandem Reaction**

Under the optimized condition, the reactivity of FCG-2 toward different substituents of (dimethoxymethyl)benzene was explored. The final products were characterized by 1H and 13C NMR spectral data as well as SCXRD measurement (for two products). As displayed in **Table [2](#page-9-0)**, electron-lacking 4 bromobenzaldehyde dimethylacetal (**2A**) exhibited 100% yield (entry 2) while electron-rich 4-methoxybenzaldehyde dimethylacetal (**3A**) resulted slightly diminished yield (Table [2,](#page-9-0) entry

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) A comparison of tandem Knoevenagel activity of previous MOF-based catalysts and FCG-2. b) Hot-filtration test for the model reaction. c) Recyclability test of the catalyst up to five cycles showing negligible loss in activity. d) Yield (%) of the product without and with proper activation of catalyst. e) FT-IR profile of the adduct (intermediate benzaldehyde + FCG-2) showing decrease in ─COOH band intensity due to H-bonding interaction with substrate. f) Luminescence decline in FCG-2 by adding benzaldehyde, corroborating two-point H-bonding interaction between electrophile and dangling ─CO2H moieties.

3). These results are in accordance with prior reports, wherein electron withdrawing group containing substrate results higher yields. Alternatively, the reaction does not proceed with phenylacetaldehyde dimethyl acetal (Table [2,](#page-9-0) entry 5) because substituted substrate is unable to provide required delocalization energy.[\[42\]](#page-12-0) Surprisingly, we found a large drop in the yield of 9- (dimethoxymethyl)anthracene (Table [2,](#page-9-0) entry 4). This anomaly can be ascribed to its larger molecular size that restricts facile diffusion through the narrow pores of FCG-2 to reach the catalytically active sites, and alternatively points size-exclusive tandem catalysis. To more accurately demonstrate the occurrence of this reaction within the porous channel and validate moleculardimension-mediated size selectivity, we conducted one more control experiment. For this, we separated FCG-2 through centrifugation and reused for a fresh reaction without washing or activation. Strikingly, the yield of benzylidene malononitrile reduced to 52% (Figure 5d), indicating that the condensation transpired on the catalyst surface. What is more, usual washing of the same catalyst followed by activation (vide supra) resulted usual 97% yield in the next cycle and supports that deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction primarily emerged inside the porous channels of FCG-2.

#### **2.6. Mechanistic Validation of Tandem Deacetalization-Knoevenagel Reaction**

The mechanistic route of one-pot deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction by FCG-2 has been established from a battery of control experiments. While cobalt nitrate or constituting organic struts provided low yield, as-made MOF could not bring about expected product due to the blockage of task-specific sites by the lattice solvents. Next, we checked consequences of external base/acid, which displayed complete conversion of **1A** to benzaldehyde intermediate (**1B**) in the presence of dilute HCl (0.1 mmol) (Table-1, entry 22), but no formation of the final product (**1C**). Oppositely, addition of Et3N (0.1 mmol) caused no reaction (Table [1,](#page-6-0) entry 23) because of deprotonation of flanked ─COOH. Based on these observations coupled with few literature reports,[\[43\]](#page-12-0) we proposed a tentative catalytic route for FCG-2 catalyzed tandem Knoevenagel condensation in **Scheme [3](#page-10-0)**. Initially, interaction with O-H moieties of the pendent carboxylic acid activates **1A** through a twopoint hydrogen bonding. The catalytic reaction proceeded via formation of **1B** as established through 1H NMR data (Figure S39, Supporting Information). In the next step, the proximate nitrogen atom in L and/or thiazole moiety in DPTz facilitated deprotonation of malononitrile. Afterwards, the so formed carbanion undergoes nucleophilic addition to **1B**, forming the product through the elimination of H2O and FCG-2 is released to take part in the next cycle. To more precisely assert that catalytic activity in FCG-2 originates from the hydrogen bonding with the flanked ─COOH group, we employed a molecular-shearing approach. This embraced purposeful trimming of the third ligand arm to produce isostructural Co(II) framework (CSMCRI-28) that does not contain any dangling -COOH and/or thiazole moiety. Surprisingly, this MOF produced low (18%) yield for the model reaction under optimized conditions (Table-1, entry 20), and corroborates

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Table 2.** Substrate scope for tandem deacetalization-Knoevenagel condensation (**1C** and **3C** are additionally characterized by single crystal X-ray diffraction).

| Entry | Substrate | Model structure | Product | Yield [%] |
|-------|-----------|-----------------|---------|-----------|
| 1.    |           |                 |         | > 99      |
| 2.    |           |                 |         | 100       |
| 3.    |           |                 |         | 77        |
| 4.    |           |                 |         | 27        |
| 5.    |           |                 |         | Nil       |

16136829, 2024, 40, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202404085 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque

<span id="page-10-0"></span>Scheme 3. Mechanistic route of free carboxylic acid group mediated tandem deacetalization Knoevenagel reaction in FCG-2.

the prominent role of pore-decked acid-base moieties in catalyzing this synergistic reaction. Moreover, impeding the availability of free carboxylic acid sites in post-metalated Ni2+@FCG-2 displayed lower product yield (Table 1, entry 21). Nevertheless, some conversion of product is accredited to the grafted Ni(II) ions. The interaction of 1A and intermediate aldehyde with the pristine MOF at the molecular level was substantiated by fluorescence spectroscopy and FT-IR analysis. The strong luminescence intensity of FCG-2 gradually diminished upon the addition of a  $1.0 \times 10^{-3}$  M solution of acetal and/or **1B** (Figure S40a, Supporting Information; Figure 5e). Alternatively, FT-IR spectra of the adducts (FCG-2 + acetal, and FCG-2 + 1B) displayed a sharp intensity drop in O-H band of carboxylic acid (Figure S40b, Supporting Information; Figure 5f). These outcomes convincingly support first-ever hydrogen-bond mediated tandem deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction by flanked carboxylic acid groups in this acid-base bi-functionalized layer-stacked 2D MOF.

#### 3. Conclusions

In conclusion, we report self-assembly of a 2D layer-stacked Co(11)-organic framework FCG-2 from C<sub>3</sub> symmetric tricarboxylic acid and a long dipyridyl linker. In-situ generated [Co2(COO)4] node and thiazole functionalized strut manifest bimodal redox-activity, which renders the MOF as water oxidation catalyst in alkaline medium with 375 mV overpotential, 78 mV per dec Tafel slope, 81.25% Faradic efficiency (FE) and 23 h of chronopotentiometric stability. Suitably oriented free carboxylic acid groups benefits post-metalation devising of heterobimetallic  $M^{2+}$ @FCG-2 composites (M = Mn, Fe, Ni). Among others, Ni<sup>2+</sup> grafted FCG-2 reveals radical enhancement in electrochemical oxygen evolution reaction (OER) activity under similar conditions. While overpotential notably reduced to 270 mV, the Tafel slope (41 mV per dec) declines almost half to that of pristine MOF. Besides increase in FE, both turnover frequency and charge transfer resistance displayed significant upsurge of 35.5 and 1.4-fold, respectively, with substantially uplifted chronopotentiometric stability compared to all of the studied MOFs. Such a high-performance water oxidation activity ranks among the bestreported values and outperforms commercial/ benchmark catalysts as a result of synergistic cooperation between two redoxactive metal ions through participation of electron-rich ligands, which modulates the conductivity and electronic structure. Free carboxylic acid and thiazole grafted pores in FCG-2 renders bifunctional acid-base character for size-selective deacetalization-Knoevenagel reaction with high yield and multicyclic usability under mild condition. Flanked -COOH sites in this MOF acts as unique hydrogen bonding motif for substrate activation, as validated by employing a pendent-functionality-truncated isostructural MOF through molecular-scissoring approach, comparing the performance of Ni<sup>2+</sup>@FCG-2 and other controlled experiments. This breakthrough sets the podium for the postmetalation of free carboxylic acid in MOFs to address future renewable energy generation and introduces a novel concept for customized engineering of unconventional task-specific sites in heterogeneous tandem catalysis.

#### 4. Experimental Section

Synthesis of FCG-2: A mixture of Co(NO $_3$ ) $_2$  (0.08 mmol,23.3 mg), 2,5-di (pyridine-4-yl)thiazolo-[5,4-d]thiazole (DPTz) (0.08 mmol, 23.7 mg), and 4,4′,4″-tricarboxytriphenylamine (H $_3$ TCA) (0.04 mmol, 15.094 mg) was dissolved in a 3 mL of dimethylformamide (DMF) and 3 mL of water in a 15 mL screw-caped vials. After heating the reaction at 100 °C for 2 d, reddish orange-colored shiny crystals were obtained. Block-shaped crystals were filtered and washed with fresh DMF (yield 50%).

Synthesis of  $M^{2+} \otimes FCG-2$  (M=Mn, Fe, Ni): Activated MOF (50 mg) and NiCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (20 mg) were stirred in 20 mL of methanol at room temperature for 2 h. After filtration and thorough methanol washing, the resulting yellowish-green powdered material (Ni<sup>2+</sup> @FCG-2) was dried at room temperature and characterized for subsequent reactions. The other heterobimetallic materials were prepared following the above synthetic protocol, by replacing NiCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O with MnCl<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O (Mn<sup>2+</sup> @FCG-2), and FeCl<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O (Fe<sup>2+</sup> @FCG-2).

Synthesis of UN MOF (CSMCRI–28): A mixture of  $Co(NO_3)_2$  (0.08 mmol, 23.3 mg), dpa ((E)–1,2-di(pyridin-4-yl)diazene) (0.08 mmol, 14.736 mg), and  $H_2OBA$  (0.04 mmol, 10.33 mg) was dissolved in 3 mL of DMF and 3 mL of water in a 15 mL screw-caped vial. After heating the reaction at 100 °C for 3 d, brown colored block shaped crystals were obtained. Crystals were filtered and washed with fresh DMF (Yield 45%).

<span id="page-11-0"></span>*Electrode Construction by Activated M2*+*@FCG-2 and FCG-2*: In a solution consisting of 50 μL Nafion, 200 μL ethanol, and 750 μL distilled water, 3 mg of respective catalysts were added. After 15 min of sonication, 34.5 μL of the catalyst ink solution was drop-casted onto carbon and pretreated with an ethanol–acetone mixture. Hg/HgO was employed as a reference electrode, and a carbon cloth served as the counter electrode. The loading of each catalyst was approximately 0.1045 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2.

*FCG-2 Catalyzed Solvent-Free Tandem Deacetalization-Knoevenagel Reaction*: Aromatic dimethyl acetal (0.5 mmol), malononitrile (0.5 mmol), and FCG-2 (8 mol %) were taken in a reaction tube, and the mixture was stirred at 70 °C for 2 h under solvent-free conditions. Following completion of the reaction, the mixture was centrifuged with CDCl3, and the products were analyzed by NMR spectroscopy. After thorough washing of the recovered catalyst with methanol, further characterization and recycling studies were conducted.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

R.C. thanks UGC, Delhi, for providing a junior research fellowship. A.K. acknowledges CSIR, New Delhi for SRF (CSIR Grant No: 31/020(0190)/2019-EMR-I). S.K. acknowledges the Department of Science and Technology (DST) for CRG (Core Research Grant) funding number #CRG/2021/001089 dated November 20, 2021, with CSIR-CECRI project number GAP 22/2021. S.N. acknowledges DST-SERB (CRG/2021/002529) for financial support. The authors acknowledge Srinu Tothadi for help in SCXRD. The analytical and instrumental facility from AESD & CIF (CSM-CRI) is gratefully acknowledged. CSMCRI communication no. 33/2024.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Author Contributions**

R.C.: material synthesis & characterization, data curation, formal analysis, writing original draft. A.K.: experimentation of electrochemical water oxidation, writing original draft. S.K.: writing-review and editing, supervision, funding acquisition. S.N.: writing-review and editing, supervision, funding acquisition.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the Supporting Information of this article.

## **Keywords**

bimetallic synergy, boosted OER, hydrogen-bonded MOF, molecular scissoring, size selectivity, tandem catalysis, triple-redox material

> Received: May 20, 2024 Revised: July 1, 2024 Published online: July 20, 2024

- [1] a) S. Overa, B. H. Ko, Y. Zhao, F. Jiao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2022**, *55*, 638; b) M. D. Kärkäs, O. Verho, E. V. Johnston, B. Åkermark, *Chem. Rev.* **2014**, *114*, 11863; c) T. Xiong, J. Li, J. C. Roy, M. Koroma, Z. Zhu, H. Yang, L. Zhang, T. Ouyang, M. S. Balogun, M. Al-Mamun, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *81*, 71; d) A. B. Galyas, L. Kis, L. Tihanyi, I. Szunyog, M. Vadaszi, A. Koncz, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, 14795.
- [2] a) N. Seal, K. Karthick, M. Singh, S. Kundu, S. Neogi, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132301; b) A. Karmakar, D. Mahendiran, R. Madhu, P. Murugan, S. Kundu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 16349.
- [3] a) N. Seal, A. Karmakar, S. Kundu, S. Neogi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 3501; b) Q. Shi, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, 3181.
- [4] a) X. Su, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, S. Gu, J. Li, S. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11286; b) Y. He, Y. Hu, Z. Zhu, J. Li, Y. Huang, S. Zhang, M. S. Balogun, Y. Tong, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *489*, 151348.
- [5] a) R. Goswami, K. Karthick, S. Das, S. Rajput, N. Seal, B. Pathak, S. Kundu, S. Neogi, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 29773; b) N. Seal, R. Goswami, M. Singh, R. S. Pillai, S. Neogi, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2021**, *8*, 296; c) N. Seal, A. S. Palakkal, M. Singh, R. Goswami, R. S. Pillai, S. Neogi, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 28378; d) H. Furukawa, K. E. Cordova, M. O'Keeffe, O. M. Yaghi, *Science* **2013**, *341*, 1230444; e) X. Zhang, Z. Chen, X. Liu, S. L. Hanna, X. Wang, R. Taheri-Ledari, A. Maleki, P. Li, O. K. Farha, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 7406; f) D. Chen, Q. Sun, C. Han, Y. Guo, Q. Huang, W. A. Goddard, J. Qian, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 16007; g) L. Figueroa-Quintero, D. Villalgordo-Hernández, J. J. Delgado-Marín, J. Narciso, V. K. Velisoju, P. Castaño, J. Gascón, E. V. Ramos-Fernández, *Small Methods* **2023**, *7*, 2201413.
- [6] a) D. Senthil Raja, X.-F. Chuah, S.-Y. Lu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801065; b) J. Jiang, L. Huang, X. Liu, L. Ai, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 7193; c) W. Zheng, M. Liu, L. Y. S. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 81.
- [7] S. Gutiérrez-Tarriño, J. L. Olloqui-Sariego, J. J. Calvente, M. Palomino, G. Mínguez Espallargas, J. L. Jordá, F. Rey, P. Oña-Burgos, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 46658.
- [8] a) T. Xiong, Z. Zhu, Y. He, M.-S. Balogun, Y. Huang, *Small Methods* **2023**, *7*, 2201472; b) Z. Zhu, L. Luo, Y. He, M. Mushtaq, J. Li, H. Yang, Z. Khanam, J. Qu, Z. Wang, M.-S. Balogun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2306061; c) T. Zhou, Y. Du, A. Borgna, J. Hong, Y. Wang, J. Han, W. Zhang, R. Xu, *Energy Environ. Sci* **2013**, *6*, 3229.
- [9] G. Chakraborty, I.-H. Park, R. Medishetty, J. J. Vittal, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 3751.
- [10] a) S. Zhao, Y. Wang, J. Dong, C. T. He, H. Yin, P. An, K. Zhao, X. Zhang, C. Gao, L. Zhang, J. Lv, J. Wang, J. Zhang, A. M. Khattak, N. A. Khan, Z. Wei, J. Zhang, S. Liu, H. Zhao, Z. Tang, *Nat. Energy* **2016**, *1*, 16184; b) J. Zhang, X. Bai, T. Wang, W. Xiao, P. Xi, J. Wang, D. Gao, J. Wang, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2019**, *11*, 1; c) Y. Li, Z. Gao, H. Bao, B. Zhang, C. Wu, C. Huang, Z. Zhang, Y. Xie, H. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *53*, 251; d) P. Karthik, A. R. M. Shaheer, A. Vinu, B. Neppolian, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1902990.
- [11] a) X. F. Lu, P. Q. Liao, J. W. Wang, J. X. Wu, X. W. Chen, C. T. He, J. P. Zhang, G. R. Li, X. M. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 8336; b) L. Zhong, J. Ding, X. Wang, L. Chai, T.-T. Li, K. Su, Y. Hu, J. Qian, S. Huang, *Inorg. Chem.* **2020**, *59*, 2701.
- [12] B. M. Sahoo, B. K. Banik, in *Green Approaches in Medicinal Chemistry for Sustainable Drug Design* (Ed: B. K. Banik), Elsevier, Amsterdam **2020**, pp. 523–548.
- [13] M. L. Gao, M. H. Qi, L. Liu, Z. B. Han, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, *55*, 6377.
- [14] C. M. McGuirk, M. J. Katz, C. L. Stern, A. A. Sarjeant, J. T. Hupp, O. K. Farha, C. A. Mirkin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 919.
- [15] X.-W. Dong, T. Liu, Y.-Z. Hu, X.-Y. Liu, C.-M. Che, *Chem. Commun.* **2013**, *49*, 7681.
- [16] M. Singh, S. Neogi, *Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *62*, 871.

- <span id="page-12-0"></span>[17] N. Seal, S. Neogi, *Chem. Commun.* **2023**, *59*, 4954.
- [18] H. He, F. Sun, B. Aguila, J. A. Perman, S. Ma, G. Zhu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 15240.
- [19] a) V. Pascanu, G. González Miera, A. K. Inge, B. Martín-Matute, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7223; b) D. Li, H.-Q. Xu, L. Jiao, H.-L. Jiang, *EnergyChem* **2019**, *1*, 100005.
- [20] A. Spek, *J. Appl. Crystallogr.* **2003**, *36*, 7.
- [21] V. A. Blatov, M. O'Keeffe, D. M. Proserpio, *CrystEngComm* **2010**, *12*, 44.
- [22] a) R.-L. Zhang, J.-J. Duan, J.-J. Feng, L.-P. Mei, Q.-L. Zhang, A.-J. Wang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *587*, 141; b) X. Liu, J. Jiang, L. Ai, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 9707; c) S. Wang, Y. Hou, X. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 4327.
- [23] W. Wei, W. Chen, D. G. Ivey, *Chem. Mater.* **2008**, *20*, 1941.
- [24] S. Bag, K. Roy, C. S. Gopinath, C. R. Raj, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6*, 2692.
- [25] L. Ai, X. Gao, J. Jiang, *J. Power Sources* **2014**, *257*, 213.
- [26] H. B. Aiyappa, J. Thote, D. B. Shinde, R. Banerjee, S. Kurungot, *Chem. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 4375.
- [27] R. Goswami, A. Karmakar, S. Rajput, M. Singh, S. Kundu, S. Neogi, *Mater. Chem. Front.* **2023**, *7*, 881.
- [28] Q. Zhang, P. Li, J. Wu, Y. Peng, H. Pang, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2304102.
- [29] W.-D. Zhang, Q.-T. Hu, L.-L. Wang, J. Gao, H.-Y. Zhu, X. Yan, Z.-G. Gu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *286*, 119906.
- [30] Q. Qi, J. Hu, Y. Zhang, W. Li, B. Huang, C. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Sustainablity Res.* **2021**, *2*, 2000067.
- [31] G. A. Gebreslase, M. V. Martínez-Huerta, M. J. Lázaro, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *67*, 101.
- [32] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16977.
- [33] a) Zeenat, Z. A., A. Maqbool, M. Asif Hussain, R. Adel Pashameah, A. Shahzadi, N. Nazar, S. Iqbal, A. K. Alanazi, M. Naeem Ashiq, H. M. Abo-Dief, *Fuel* **2023**, *331*, 125913; b) Y. Shi, S. Zhou, J. Liu, X. Zhang, J. Yin, T. Zhan, Y. Yang, G. Li, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2024**, *341*,

- 123326; c) S. Bhardwaj, R. Srivastava, T. Mageto, M. Chaudhari, A. Kumar, J. Sultana, S. R. Mishra, F. Perez, R. K. Gupta, *Discover Nano* **2023**, *18*, 59; d) Y. Ou, L. P. Twight, B. Samanta, L. Liu, S. Biswas, J. L. Fehrs, N. A. Sagui, J. Villalobos, J. Morales-Santelices, D. Antipin, M. Risch, M. C. Toroker, S. W. Boettcher, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 7688.
- [34] D. H. Taffa, D. Balkenhohl, M. Amiri, M. Wark, *Small Struct.* **2023**, *4*, 2200263.
- [35] a) M. Singh, A. Karmakar, N. Seal, P. P. Mondal, S. Kundu, S. Neogi, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, 24504; b) F. Song, M. M. Busch, B. Lassalle-Kaiser, C.-S. Hsu, E. Petkucheva, M. Bensimon, H. M. Chen, C. Corminboeuf, X. Hu, *ACS Cent. Sci.* **2019**, *5*, 558; c) N. Seal, A. Karmakar, S. Kundu, S. Neogi, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2023**, *11*, 979.
- [36] X.-R. Wang, J.-Y. Liu, Z.-W. Liu, W.-C. Wang, J. Luo, X.-P. Han, X.-W. Du, S.-Z. Qiao, J. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800005.
- [37] R. Madhu, A. Karmakar, K. Karthick, S. Sam Sankar, S. Kumaravel, K. Bera, S. Kundu, *Inorg. Chem.* **2021**, *60*, 15818.
- [38] C. Cao, D.-D. Ma, Q. Xu, X.-T. Wu, Q.-L. Zhu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1807418.
- [39] W. Zhou, D.-D. Huang, Y.-P. Wu, J. Zhao, T. Wu, J. Zhang, D.-S. Li, C. Sun, P. Feng, X. Bu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 4227.
- [40] H. N. Dhandapani, D. Mahendiran, A. Karmakar, P. Devi, S. Nagappan, R. Madhu, K. Bera, P. Murugan, B. R. Babu, S. Kundu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 17488.
- [41] M. Rittiruam, S. Somdee, P. Buapin, N. Aumnongpho, N. Kerdprasit, T. Saelee, S. Kheawhom, N. Chotigkrai, S. Praserthdam, P. Praserthdam, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2021**, *869*, 159280.
- [42] S. Mistry, A. Sarkar, S. Natarajan, *Cryst. Growth Des.* **2019**, *19*, 747.
- [43] a) Z.-S. Zhao, Y. Zhang, T. Fang, Z.-B. Han, F.-S. Liang, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 6316; b) Y. Hu, J. Zhang, H. Huo, Z. Wang, X. Xu, Y. Yang, K. Lin, R. Fan, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2020**, *10*, 315; c) Y. Zhang, Y. Wang, L. Liu, N. Wei, M.-L. Gao, D. Zhao, Z.-B. Han, *Inorg. Chem.* **2018**, *57*, 2193;