---
source: Chen 等 - 2025 - What Is the Mechanism by which the Introduction of Amorphous SeO x  Effectively Pr.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 56.404s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:43:56.909545Z
---

# **What Is the Mechanism by which the Introduction of Amorphous SeO***<sup>x</sup>* **Effectively Promotes Urea-Assisted Water Electrolysis Performance of Ni(OH)2?**

*Qiuyan Chen, Jinwei Chen,\* Xinran Dong, Changxue Dong, Yunzhe Zhou, Jie Zhang, Gang Wang, and Ruilin Wang\**

**Nickel hydroxide (Ni(OH)2) is considered to be one of the most promising electrocatalysts for urea oxidation reaction (UOR) under alkaline conditions due to its flexible structure, wide composition and abundant 3D electrons. However, its slow electrochemical reaction rate, high affinity for the reaction intermediate \*COOH, easy exposure to low exponential crystal faces and limited metal active sites that seriously hinder the further improvement of UOR activities. Herein it is reported electrocatalyst composed of rich oxygen-vacancy (Ov) defects with amorphous SeO***x***-covered Ni(OH)2 (Ov-SeO***x***/Ni(OH)2). Surprisingly, at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, compared with Ni(OH)2 (1.46 V (vs RHE)), Ov-SeO***x***/Ni(OH)2 has a potential of 1.35 V. Meanwhile, Ov-SeO***x***/Ni(OH)2 catalyst also showed good hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) performance, so it is used as the electrolytic cell assembled by UOR and HER bifunctional catalysts and only 1.57 V could reach 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Density functional theory (DFT) study revealed that introduce of amorphous SeO***<sup>x</sup>* **optimizes the electronic structure of the central active metal, amorphous/crystalline interfaces promote charge-carrier transfer, shift d-band center and entail numerous spin-polarized electrons during the reaction, which speeds up the UOR reaction kinetics.**

## **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen (H2), as a clean fuel with high energy density, is regarded as an ideal energy carrier to replace fossil fuels, addressing energy crisis and environmental deterioration.[\[1\]](#page-15-0) Electrolysis has been described as an efficient and simple method to convert electrical energy into H2. In the realm of H2 production through electrolytic water splitting, H2 is mainly obtained through a

Q. Chen, J. Chen, X. Dong, C. Dong, Y. Zhou, J. Zhang, G. Wang, R. Wang College of Materials Science and Engineering

Sichuan University

Chengdu 610065, P. R. China

E-mail: [jwchen@scu.edu.cn;](mailto:jwchen@scu.edu.cn)[rl.wang@scu.edu.cn](mailto:rl.wang@scu.edu.cn)

Q. Chen, J. Chen, X. Dong, C. Dong, Y. Zhou, J. Zhang, G. Wang, R. Wang Engineering Research Center of Alternative Energy Materials & Devices Ministry of Education

Sichuan University Chengdu 610065, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202409306>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202409306**

cathodic reduction half-reaction (i.e., hydrogen evolution reaction, HER), and the corresponding half-reaction is an anodic oxidation reaction (i.e., oxygen evolution reaction, OER).[\[2\]](#page-15-0) In alkaline media, HER is usually a low thermodynamic barrier reaction and a simple two-electron process (2H2O + 2e<sup>−</sup> → 2OH<sup>−</sup> + H2).[\[1d\]](#page-15-0) Under the action of commercial Pt/C catalysts, HER current density can be achieved at a potential of tens of millivolts. On the contrary, large thermodynamic potential (1.23V vs RHE) and complex four-electron process (4OH<sup>−</sup> − 4e<sup>−</sup> → 2H2O + O2) are involved in the anode reaction, which inevitably leads to a low conversion efficiency of electrical energy to hydrogen energy.[\[2b\]](#page-15-0) In recent years, there has been growing interest in so-called "assisted" hydroelectrolysis. When hydrogen production at the cathode is coupled with anodizing of organic molecules, the latter usually occurs at a lower potential compared to OER. For this reason, researchers have selected many chemicals with low thermodynamic

oxidation potential (such as small molecular alcohols, aldehydes and urea, etc.) to replace the direct decomposition of water and made great progress.[\[3\]](#page-15-0) Among them, urea oxidation reaction (UOR) has an extremely low thermodynamic potential (0.37 V) and may be a good alternative to water oxidation. In addition, UOR is an essential reaction in enzyme-free electrochemical urea sensors, direct urea fuel cells, and the purification of urea-rich wastewater. However, due to the 6e<sup>−</sup> transfer process, urea electrolysis is plagued by slow kinetics (CO(NH2)2 + 6OH<sup>−</sup> − 6e<sup>−</sup> → N2 + CO2 + 5H2O), complex intermediate materials, and many desorption steps, which seriously hinder its practical application.[\[1c,4\]](#page-15-0) Therefore, highly active UOR catalysts are urgently needed to improve the effect of intermediate material exchange to drive the slow anodic oxidation reaction.

Considering the cost and subsequent promotion of the catalyst. A cheap and efficient catalyst is the ideal choice. Among various inexpensive catalysts, Ni-based transition metal materials, including Ni-based oxides,[\[1d,5\]](#page-15-0) Ni-based hydroxides[\[3a,b,6\]](#page-15-0) and their derivatives,[\[7\]](#page-15-0) show excellent electrocatalytic UOR properties. Nickel hydroxide (Ni(OH)2) has been widely studied as a promising UOR electrocatalyst because of its inherent lamellar

structure, wide composition and abundant 3d electrons in alkaline environment. In the UOR process, Ni(OH), is first oxidized by a single electron to produce NiOOH, which is then identified as the UOR active site. During the subsequent UOR process, participates in indirect urea electrooxidation (6NiOOH +  $CO(NH_2)_2 + H_2O \rightarrow 6Ni(OH)_2 + N_2 + CO_2$ ) or direct electrooxidation (NiOOH-CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> + 6OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  NiOOH + N<sub>2</sub> + CO<sub>2</sub> + 5H<sub>2</sub>O + 6e<sup>-</sup>) two pathways generate N<sub>2</sub> and CO<sub>2</sub> on the formed NiOOH. [2c,3a,8] However, the active species of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst is NiOOH, and the Ni<sup>3+</sup> contained in itself is quickly consumed during the catalytic process, and the potential required for the oxidation of Ni<sup>2+</sup> to Ni<sup>3+</sup> is high, resulting in a slow reaction rate in the electrochemical reaction process of the Ni(OH), electrode. [2c,5] Second, the NiOOH active site has a high affinity for the reaction intermediate (\*COOH), which seriously hinds the catalytic reaction (M\*COOH + OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  M\*CO<sub>2</sub> + H<sub>2</sub>O + e<sup>-</sup>). [2c,3a,8] Furthermore, Ni(OH)2 catalysts easily exposed low-index surface and limited metal active sites further hinder UOR electrocatalytic activity. [3b,9] Thus, the key objectives for designing Ni(OH)2-based UOR catalysts are: 1) Reduce the potential required for the oxidation of Ni<sup>2+</sup> to Ni<sup>3+</sup>. 2) Increase the active site of NiOOH. 3) Rapid intermediate material exchange on the NiOOH surface. 4) Selective crystal surface structure control is carried out for NiOOH easily exposed low index surface.

At present, many researchers have proposed strategies to improve the UOR activity of NiOOH, including electronic structure regulation, [2c,10] crystal plane modulation, [3b,11] component regulation, [1d,12] heteroatom doping [1c,13] and the construction of heterogeneous interfaces. [1d,4b,14] Compared with crystalline structural materials, amorphous materials often have abundant defects, which sometimes lead to the enhancement of catalytic activity of the catalyst. [15] In addition, the flexibility of amorphous materials allows the active site to adopt any shape required for electrocatalytic reactions, contributing to surface remodeling and thus optimizing the surface state. [16] For example, Wu et al.[17] prepared a novel catalyst composed of amorphous Ni(OH)S nanosheets by hydrolyzing NiCl<sub>2</sub> (CH<sub>3</sub>CSNH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>4</sub> at room temperature. The Ni(OH)S catalyst contains a Ni<sup>3+</sup> rich phase, which significantly accelerates the kinetics of the UOR catalytic reaction, reaching 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.34 V. Wang et al.[15] constructed a crystal-amorphous CoP/CeO<sub>v</sub> heterojunction material to drive a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in HER requiring an overpotential of 118 mV. Therefore, the project of constructing crystalline-amorphous heterogeneous interfaces is expected to achieve high efficiency UOR/HER catalytic activity. Theoretically, the activity of UOR is directly determined by the chemisorption energy of the intermediate state, which is mainly affected by the d orbital of the transition metal ion. It can be seen that adjusting the d orbital electron state can accelerate the reaction kinetics of UOR. Selenium (Se) is a sulfur element with similar chemical properties and greater polarization with sulfur.[18] Thus, the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> into Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to construct SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterogeneous catalyst is expected to improve the potential catalytic activity of UOR/HER. Moreover, the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> will also weaken the metal-oxygen bond to a certain extent, resulting in a high concentration of oxygenvacancy (O,), which can adjust the bond strength of the metal adsorption, achieve a rapid intermediate exchange effect, and thus obtain excellent electrocatalytic performance. Moreover, the

mechanism by which the introduction of amorphous materials improves UOR activity still needs to be further clarified.

Here, the  $O_v$  rich  $SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2$  catalyst  $(O_v-SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2)$ was prepared by a two-step method. It is found that the surface O<sub>v</sub> changes with the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>v</sub>, and the mechanism of introducing amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> into crystalline Ni(OH), materials to enhance the activity of UOR and HER processes was revealed through experimental and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The theoretical calculation and experimental results show that the introduction of amorphous SeO, not only exposes more UOR intrinsic active sites, but also adjusts the electronic state of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and weakens the chemisorbed energy between the intermediate substance and the catalyst surface. Besides, the coexistence of O<sub>v</sub> and amorphous SeO<sub>v</sub> results in strong electron interaction in the catalyst interfacial region. Benefit from the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> and the presence of O<sub>v</sub>, the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst showed a lower reaction barrier in HER respectively (HER: Hydrolysis ionization barrier decreased from 0.992 to 0.77 eV) and good performance (operating potential 1.35 V (vs RHE) at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), long-term stability (no significant attenuation at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> current density for 60 h) and good degradation efficiency of urea-rich wastewater (After 60 h of long-term stability test at current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the urea degradation rate reached 61.62%).

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterization

O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> was grown on nickel foam (NF) substrates a two-step process (Figure 1A). In the first step, Ni(OH), was grown on the NF surface by hydrothermal method in the presence of Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, NH<sub>4</sub>F, CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> and deionized water (DW). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) characterization revealed that the prepared Ni(OH), primarily consisted of nano-flower structure (Figure S1, Supporting Information) and Ni(OH), phase (Figure 2A) is formed by selfassembly of nanosheets. In the second step, SeO<sub>x</sub> was grown on Ni(OH)2 surface. As shown in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> maintains the nano-flower structure, but the surface was rougher. This rough surface provided more active sites for the catalyst, which could effectively promote the occurrence of catalytic reactions.

XRD analysis<sup>[19]</sup> indicates that the X-ray diffraction peak at 11.58° corresponds to the (0 0 3) face of  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH), (PDF No. 38-0715), and the peak at 22.99° corresponds to the (0 0 6) face. Similarly, the peaks at 19.46°, 33.25°, and 38.91° correspond to the (0 0 1), (1 0 0), and (1 0 1) faces of  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (PDF No. 73-1520) (Figure 2B), respectively. Importantly, after the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub>, the intensity of all Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> diffraction peaks decreased, indicating that the crystallinity of the catalyst may be reduced. Figure 2B shows that, compared with Ni(OH)2, the diffraction peaks of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> are negatively shifted at (0 0 1) and (1 0 0) crystal planes, but no significant shifts are observed at other diffraction peaks. This indicated that the introduction of amorphous SeO, may result in lattice defects. This suggests that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to shift to a smaller angle on the (0 0 1) and (1 0 0) crystal faces. Relevant literature indicates that such shift of the catalyst diffraction peak may lead to the increase

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** A) Synthetic illustration of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 electrode. B) HRTEM. C,D) SAED. E-I) energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy mapping.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** XRD and XPS spectra of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2, Ni(OH)2 and NF. A,B) XRD spectra. C) Ni 2p. D) Se 3d. E) O 1s. F) EPR spectra.

of lattice defects and the increase of active sites, thereby enhancing the electrocatalytic activity.[20]

According to Scherrer's formula  $a = \gamma/(2\sin\theta\sqrt{h^2 + k^2 + l^2})$ to calculate the Ni(OH)2 and Oy-SeOx/Ni(OH)2 catalysts of (001) (h = k = 0, l = 1) and (100) (h = 1, k = l = 0) crystal faces of lattice constants. Where  $\gamma$  is the ray wavelength ( $\gamma = 2.6885 \text{ Å}$ ) and  $\theta$  is the Bragg diffraction Angle. The lattice constants of the O<sub>v</sub>- $SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2$  crystal faces (0 0 1) and (1 0 0) are  $a_{(001)} = 7.9482$  Å and  $a_{(100)} = 4.9482 \,\text{Å}$ , respectively. However, these values are identical to those of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $a_{(001)} = 7.9482 \text{ Å}$  and  $a_{(100)} = 4.9482 \text{ Å}$ ). This may be due to the change of atomic arrangement of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> lattice after the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub>, which affects the size of lattice constant. On the other hand, it may be due to the contraction of lattice anisotropy caused by macroscopic residual stress.

It is worth noting that the introduction of amorphous SeOx may have caused changes in the atomic arrangement of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> lattice, potentially affecting the lattice constant size. Additionally, macroscopic residual stress could lead to lattice anisotropy contraction, which may influence the lattice parameters. Since SeO<sub>x</sub> grows predominantly on the (0 0 1) and (1 0 0) crystal planes of Ni(OH)2, these lattice parameters may be particularly affected, potentially causing the diffraction peak to shift to a lower angle. In summary, these results show that the catalyst does not have significant phase shift after the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> into Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, which proves the formation of electrocatalyst O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

To further confirm the effect of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> material structure, Mott-Schottky analysis was performed at 1 kHz. As shown in Figure \$3 (Supporting Information), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> exhibits a P-type (negative slope) while O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> displays an inverted V-type (positive slope and negative slope), which indicates that p-n heterojunction is formed when Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and SeO<sub>x</sub> hybridize with each other. It is well-known that the combination of p-type and n-type semiconductors to form a pn heterojunction can enhance the electron density on the surface of the p-type material, thereby improving the electrocatalytic activity of the catalysts.<sup>[21]</sup> Thus, when amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> is introduced to form a p-n heterojunction on the  $Ni(OH)_2$  material, local regions of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and SeO<sub>x</sub> carry equivalent negative and positive charges, respectively. The formation of this p-n heterojunction may provide an abundance of active sites that facilitate electron transport during catalytic reactions.

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images revealed that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is a 3D nano-flower structure formed by the self-assembly of multiple 2D nanosheets (as shown in the highangle annular dark-field scanning TEM, HAADF-STEM, image in Figure 1E). This hierarchical heterostructure is conducive to enhancing the catalytic performance. Furthermore, the 3D nanoflower structure of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode provides a high specific surface area (41.78 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure S4, Supporting Information) and more edge active sites, which offer more attachment points for the catalyst to adsorb small urea molecules and facilitate the occurrence of UOR catalytic reactions. The highresolution TEM (HRTEM) image in Figure 1B shows a clear boundary between SeO<sub>x</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, where the lattice fringes of Ni(OH), are  $\approx 0.453$  nm, corresponding to the (001) plane of  $Ni(OH)_2$  in the  $O_v$ -SeO<sub>x</sub>/ $Ni(OH)_2$  composite. The corresponding selected area electron diffraction (SAED) image displays several bright rings with discrete spots that can be indexed to the (003), (200), and (113) planes of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1C,D), further confirming that SeO<sub>x</sub> exists in an amorphous state. Figures 1E-I and Table S1 (Supporting Information) demonstrate that Ni, Se, and O elements are uniformly distributed within the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> structure. These results further validate the successful synthesis of the SeO<sub>x</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterogeneous inter-

The electronic interaction between Se and Ni atoms on the surface of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode was characterized by Xray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).[22] Figure S5A (Supporting Information) clearly demonstrates the presence of Ni, Se and O elements in O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst, further confirming the successful preparation of SeO<sub>x</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructures. Among these elements, the C 1s peak is calibrated with the standard carbon peak at 284.8 eV (Figure \$5B, Supporting Information). The XPS fine spectra of Ni 2p, Se 3d, and O 1s, after the corresponding correction, are shown in Figures 2C-E. In Figure 2C, the Ni 2p energy spectra of both O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>3</sub> contain two pairs of spin-orbit split peaks, Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, which are characteristic of Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> ions, along with their corresponding shake-up satellite peaks. The two fitting peaks of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 856.49 and 874.04 eV correspond to Ni<sup>2+</sup>  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni<sup>2+</sup>  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively, while the two fitting peaks at 859.87 and 876.04 eV correspond to Ni<sup>3+</sup>  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni<sup>3+</sup>  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively. The other two fitting peaks at 863.03 and 880.56 eV are satellite peaks. Compared with Ni(OH)2, the high-resolution XPS spectra of Ni<sup>2+</sup> 2p in O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> exhibit a negative shift, indicating that some electrons were transferred from Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to SeO<sub>x</sub> at the interface between Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and SeO<sub>x</sub>. This result suggests that, due to the higher electronegativity of Ni atoms, they can attract more electrons from the Se atoms. Figure 2D displays the Se 3d spectrum of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, which shows two fitting peaks at 59.04 and 60.43 eV, indicating the presence of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> in the O<sub>y</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> materials. Figure 2E reveals that the O 1s spectrum of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst can be deconvolved into three peaks labeled O1, O2, and O3. The peaks at 530.63, 531.63, and 532.75 eV are attributed to the metal-oxygen bond, the O atom near the oxygen vacancies (Ov), and surface-adsorbed water, respectively. Furthermore, the O2 ratio in O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (32.70%) is higher than that in Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (25.41%). The introduction of Se increases the proportion of oxygen vacancies, confirming that the incorporation of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> leads to an increased number of oxygen vacancies on the Ni(OH), surface. This point is well supported by the results of Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) spectroscopy (Figure 2F).

From the above results, the formation mechanism of O<sub>v</sub>- $SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2$  can be concluded as follows: 1)  $Ni(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$ and Se powder were used as Ni source and Se source, respectively. 2) Urea and NH<sub>4</sub>F produce alkaline medium at high temperature. 3) Due to the existence of alkaline medium and high temperature conditions, some Ni atoms will precipitate from the precursor to form Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. 4) Under the catalysis of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Se source can catalyze the conversion of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface in situ. 5) Under high temperature conditions, some of the water molecules in Ni(OH), may break down, releasing hydrogen and oxygen. Meanwhile, the introduction of Se may

react with the released oxygen, causing some of the oxygen atoms in the Ni(OH), lattice to be consumed or escape, resulting in the formation of O<sub>w</sub>.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical Performance Characterization

#### 2.2.1. UOR Activity and Stability

The performance of UOR is tested in a standard three-electrode system with a temperature of 30 °C. The purpose of this study is to replace OER with UOR to provide an excellent catalyst for high efficiency and energy saving hydrogen production. The detailed reaction process of urea oxidation is shown in Figure 3A, where the urea molecule is first adsorbed on the catalyst surface and then dissociated into the crucial intermediates (i.e., \*CO, \*COOH and \* NH), which is regarded as the essential step for UOR and having a considerable effect on the efficacy of urea oxidation. First, activation is performed in 1.0 M KOH solution with a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and a cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves in the range of 1.00 to 1.975 V (vs RHE). CV activation not only helps to remove impurities on the electrode surface, optimize the electrode surface structure, and promote the activation of the catalyst. In addition, a large amount of catalytically active Ni<sup>3+</sup> substance was accumulated during the pre-oxidation reaction as the active site of OER and UOR.[23] Nextly, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were used to analyze the situation of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode with and without 0.5 M urea in 1.0 M KOH solution. As shown in Figure 3B, the current density of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode first increases slowly at  $\approx$ 1.34 V in 1.0 M KOH solution, and the small increase in current density is mainly related to the oxidation of Ni<sup>2+</sup> to Ni<sup>3+</sup> to form NiOOH. It begins to increase sharply at 1.53 V, indicating that NiOOH is the main catalytic site for the OER catalytic process. However, in the presence of 0.5 M urea, the current density of the  $O_v$ -SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode increased sharply at  $\approx 1.32$  V, which may be attributed to the oxidation of Ni<sup>2+</sup> promoting the increase in UOR related current density, indicating that NiOOH is the catalytic site of UOR. In addition, at 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the potential of UOR is reduced by ≈300 mV relative to the potential of OER, indicating that the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode has higher selectivity and catalytic activity for UOR. The decrease of potential is due to the easy oxidation of urea molecules, which further indicates that the substitution of OER by UOR as anode reaction is beneficial to reduce the energy barrier. The LSV curves of UOR on  $O_v$ -SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrodes in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution at different scanning rates (5–50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) without iR correction are shown in Figure S6A (Supporting Information). Figure S6A (Supporting Information) show that the UOR activity is independent of the scan rate at both low and high current densities. This shows that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode has excellent charge transfer ability and non-capacitive control characteristics in UOR process.

To highlight the interaction between Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and SeO<sub>x</sub>, the UOR electrocatalytic performance of pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NF was tested in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution (Figure 3C). As expected, the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode showed good UOR performance, with a potential of 1.32 V for 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, while only 1.35 V was required to drive 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Much lower

than Ni(OH), (1.35 V@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 1.46 V@100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and pure NF (1.38 V@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 3D). Additionally, comperied with crystalline/crystalline NiSe2/Ni(OH)2 catalyst (modified according to the reference [24] to obtain the NiSe<sub>2</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> crystalline/crystalline catalyst, detailed preparation methods are described in Supporting Information Experiment Section 1.2) (Figure S7, Supporting Information). O<sub>v</sub>-SeOx/Ni(OH), have better electrocatalytic activity. The results show that the amorphous/crystalline state has better UOR catalytic activity. It is worth noting that the UOR performance of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode is much better than that of most reported catalysts (Figure 3I; Table S2, Supporting Information), such as Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>,<sup>[25]</sup> Ni-CuO NAs/CF,<sup>[26]</sup> Gr-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>,<sup>[27]</sup> NiMoO- $Ar,^{[28]} Ni_3 Se_2/MoO_2@Ni_{12}P_5^{[4b]}$  and  $NiSe_2 NWs^{[16]}$  et al. The potential of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode in the catalytic activity of UOR was further verified. Importantly, the performance of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode without IR correction is still superior to the vast majority of other reported catalysts (Figure S8, Supporting Information). This result further demonstrates the potential of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode in the field of UOR electrocatalysis.

The UOR dynamics were investigated by using Tafel slope. As shown in Figure 3E, the Tafel slope of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode is 31.35 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is much lower than Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>  $(35.71 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$  and pure NF  $(43.91 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ . This indicates that the  $O_v$ -Se $O_x$ /Ni(OH), electrode has the fastest UOR kinetics. Additionally, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy was used to reveal the influence of the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> on the interfacial charge transfer kinetics during the UOR process, and an equivalent circuit model was used to fit the kinetic parameters of the catalyst in the UOR (Figure 3G). The first parallel resistor (charge transfer resistance, R<sub>ct</sub>) and the constant-phase element (CPE) are related to the conversion of Ni(OH), to NiOOH. Figure 3G shows that the reduction of R<sub>ct</sub> after the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> is due to the accelerated Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> reaction rate at the electrode/electrolyte boundary, which involves an indirect (catalyst reconstruction mechanism) oxidation process. Studies have shown that surface reconstruction can affect the catalytic reaction. First, surface reconstruction can change the active site distribution and surface energy of the catalyst, thereby regulating the rate and selectivity of the reaction. Second, surface reconstruction can change the interaction between catalyst and reactant, and affect the rate and energy barrier of adsorption, dissociation and diffusion. In addition, surface reconstruction can also regulate the activity and stability of the catalyst. Compared with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $R_{ct} = 258.7 \Omega$ ) and pure NF ( $R_{ct} = 2023 \Omega$ ) electrodes,  $O_v$ -Se $O_v$ /Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode has a lower  $R_{ct}$  ( $R_{ct} = 3.517 \Omega$ ), which may be due to the fact that the introduction of SeO<sub>x</sub> reduces the band gap of Ni(OH)2 and enhances the intrinsic conductivity (Table S3, Supporting Information). Thus, the Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> oxidation reduction process is promoted. On the other hand, it may be due to the flexibility of the introduced amorphous material SeO<sub>x</sub> itself that the Ni(OH), active site can adopt any shape required for electrocatalytic reaction, contributing to surface reconstruction, thereby optimizing the surface state and promoting the occurrence of UOR catalytic reaction. Therefore, the significant catalytic capacity of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode may come from the fact that the introduction of amorphous  $SeO_x$  reduces the band gap of Ni(OH)2, accelerates.[1d] Besides, Figure 3H shows that the

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 3.** UOR electrocatalytic activity and stability. A) Schematic diagram of UOR. B) LSV curves of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 electrode in 1.0 M KOH solution with/without 0.5 M urea. C) LSV curves of different self-supported electrodes. D) UOR potential at 10/100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. E) Tafel slopes. F) Cdl. G) Nyquist plots (inset shows the equivalent circuit). H) Conductivity of the different electrodes. I) Comparison of electrochemical UOR performance of this work with other reported electrodes. J) Stability measurement of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

Figure 4. Bode plots of  $O_v$ -SeO $_x$ /Ni(OH) $_2$  catalysts in 1.0 M KOH solution with/without 0.5 M urea. A) 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution, and B) 1.0 M KOH solution. In situ Raman spectra of C)  $O_v$ -SeO $_x$ /Ni(OH) $_2$  was recorded from open circuit potential (OCP) to 1.66 V in 0.1 M KOH + 0.05 M urea solution. D) Intensity ratio ( $I_{\delta/v}$ ) of  $O_v$ -SeO $_x$ /Ni(OH) $_2$  at potential 1.22–1.66 V with an interval of 0.4 V.

electrical conductivity of  $O_v$ -SeO $_x$ /Ni(OH) $_2$  electrode is the highest, which is  $0.65 \times 10^6$  S m $^{-1}$ , much higher than that of Ni(OH) $_2$  (0.32  $\times$  10 $^6$  S m $^{-1}$ ). Overall,  $O_v$ -SeO $_x$ /Ni(OH) $_2$  electrodes exhibit high UOR performance due to their fast reaction kinetics, large active surface area, low  $R_{ct}$ , and high electrical conductivity.

Furthermore, the Bode plot, obtained by plotting the frequency in relation to the phase Angle, studies the details of the number of processes that occur in electrochemical reactions. The high frequency relaxation process (10<sup>1.9</sup>–10<sup>2.5</sup> Hz), as shown in Bode Figure 4A,B and Figure S9 (Supporting Information), belongs to the Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> oxidation reduction process and is associated with indirect UOR. When the potential reaches 1.30 V, the peak of the high frequency area is gone, indicating that the Ni<sup>2+</sup> on O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode surface is reconstructed into high-valence NiOOH. It is generally believed that the lowfrequency region of the Bode plot (10<sup>0</sup>–10<sup>1</sup> Hz) is a non-uniform charge distribution, that is, the electrode surface forms an intermediate material. [3a,29] In 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution, when  $O_v$ -SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> potential was  $\approx 1.30$  V compared with Ni(OH)2, there was an obvious peak in the low frequency region, which indicated that the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> promoted the oxidation of small urea intermediates. In addition, O<sub>v</sub>- $SeO_{x}/Ni(OH)_{2}$  and  $Ni(OH)_{2}$  in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution (Figure 4A; Figure \$9A, Supporting Information) consistently exhibit lower starting potentials compared to O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH), in the 1.0 M KOH solution (Figure 4B; Figure S9B, Supporting Information). It is remarkable that when the potential is increased to 1.30 V, the peak frequency of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> moves to a higher frequency region (≈10 Hz), and the phase angle decreases with the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub>. This indicated that the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> promotes the dissociation kinetics of urea and the oxidation of intermediates.

To better understand the surface evolution process of the catalyst and determine the true active substance of the catalyst, the specific information of the amorphous phase was obtained using in-situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy (Figure S10, Supporting Information), and the reconstruction process of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode under UOR conditions was deeply understood. Figure 4C revealed that the in situ Raman spectrum of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode, recording from the open circuit potential to 1.66 V. During 1.30 V and higher, two strong Raman bands were observed near 482.15 cm<sup>-1</sup> ( $\delta$ -Ni-O) and 551.82 cm<sup>-1</sup> ( $\nu$ -Ni-O), corresponding to the Ni<sup>3+</sup>-O bending and tensile vibrations of the high-valence NiOOH, respectively.[3a,30] In general, the ratio of  $\delta$ (Ni-O) to the peak intensity of  $\nu$ (Ni-O) is higher in  $\gamma$ -NiOOH than in  $\beta$ -NiOOH (I $\delta/\nu$ ), This is due to the looser structure of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> compared to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode. [8,23] It should be noted that during the reconstruction process, the O<sub>v</sub>- $SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2$  of  $I_{\delta/v}$  value reaches 1.04 at 1.26 V, which indicates that  $\gamma$ -NiOOH is related to the partial formation of Ni<sup>4+</sup> (Figure 4D), that is, the surface reconstruction of the catalyst occurs during the electrochemical process of UOR.[31] Meanwhile, the  $I_{\delta/\nu}$  value of  $O_{\nu}$ -Se $O_{\nu}$ /Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode ranges from 1.03 to 1.07 V in the potential range of 1.22 to 1.66 V, and the  $I_{\delta/\nu}$  value decreases slightly with the increase of applied potential (1.50 V). This may be due to structural defects and lattice disorder caused by the introduction of amorphous  $SeO_{\kappa}$ .[3a]

To research the electrochemical active area of the catalyst, the double layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) (Figure 3F) of different materials was calculated according to the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves

www.small-journal.com

16136829, 2025, 7, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.02029036 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. Se the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

at different scan rate (Figures S6B-D, Supporting Information). As expected, the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode had the largest C<sub>d1</sub> value (24.08 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), 2.94 and 4.19 times that of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (8.17 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and bare NF (0.81 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively. Indicating that the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> enhanced the number of Ni(OH), active sites, effectively promote the adsorption of urea molecules on the catalyst and improve the catalytic activity. Finally, the stability of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode was tested at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 60 h. The corresponding potential-time curves has no significant loss of activity, indicating good stability (Figure 3]). In addition, in order to better characterize the stability of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst, the I-t stability experiment was also carried out at a potential of 1.43 V (vs RHE) in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution for 70 h. In Figure S11 (Supporting Information), after stability test at 1.43 V for 70 h, the curves decreased slightly (possibly due to urea consumption). It is further indicated that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst has excellent UOR electrochemical stability.

Subsequently, structure, chemical properties and valence information of the catalyst were revealed by SEM, HRTEM, XRD and XPS measurements of the UOR stabilized samples. Figure S12 (Supporting Information) shows that after the longterm stability test at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 60 h, the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub> /Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode maintains the nano-flowerlike structure, and the morphology remains basically unchanged, but the surface roughness increases, which may be caused by the surface remodeling phenomenon of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode. Figure S13 (Supporting Information) shows that after the long-term stability test for 60 h, the content of Se element decreased slightly, which may be due to: 1) Se element participated in the reaction as a component of the catalyst, and was consumed or transformed during the reaction process, resulting in a decrease in content. 2) There will be heat during the electrode test, and the increase in electrode temperature may accelerate the volatilization and diffusion process of Se elements, resulting in a decrease in Se content.

In the XRD pattern shown in Figure S14A (Supporting Information), after long-term stability test, no other miscellaneous peaks were formed except the peak intensity weakening for O<sub>v</sub>- $SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2$ . The surface chemical state of  $O_y$ - $SeO_x/Ni(OH)_2$ electrode after long-term stability of UOR was analyzed by XPS. All peaks were corrected at C 1s (284.8 eV) (Figure S14B, Supporting Information). Figure \$14C (Supporting Information) displayed that Ni, Se, and O elements are uniformly distributed in the catalyst. In the spectrum of Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub>, the characteristic peaks of the Ni-O bond in the sample after UOR are slightly shifted towards a lower binding energy relative to the initial bond, indicating that Ni forms a lower oxidation state (Figure S14D, Supporting Information). These observations can be attributed to the destruction of  $\gamma$ -NiOOH, where the Ni atoms will be directly connected to the O atoms, which will increase the local electron density, resulting in the presence of Ni 2p in the form of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> with a lower binding energy. [3a,32] For Se 3d spectrum, after UOR test, the peak of Se elemental disappeared and the proportion of SeOx increased, indicating that part of the low-priced Se in Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> was oxidized to SeO<sub>x</sub> under UOR process (Figure S14E, Supporting Information). Moreover, the presence of surface oxygen was confirmed by O 1s XPS spectroscopy (Figure S14F, Supporting Information). Compared with initial Ni(OH)2, the O<sub>v</sub> contribution (O2 peak) of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> after UOR long-term

stability test was higher than that of initial Ni(OH)2, confirming that the presence of SeO<sub>x</sub> may also promote the formation of O<sub>y</sub> in Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Table S4, Supporting Information). Therefore, the dynamically generated hypervalent NiOOH plays a decisive role in the activity of UOR and can be considered as the real active phase in the system. In addition, the presence of SeO<sub>x</sub> causes O<sub>y</sub> and lattice disorder in Ni(OH)2, thus optimizing the geometry and electronic structure of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

#### 2.2.2. Decomposition Rate of Urea in Urea-Rich Wastewater

Urea is widely distributed in wastewater, which is harmful to human health. Since the products of UOR are all non-toxic (such as  $N_2$  and  $CO_2$ ), urea oxidation can be considered as a viable wastewater treatment strategy. Herein, O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst to treat urea rich wastewater, and an indoxyl blue method was used to evaluate the purification effect. In the UV-vis spectrophotometer, the urea peaked at 678 nm. Figure \$15A (Supporting Information) displayed that the peak strength of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> decreases significantly during the long-term test, indicating that the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst gradually degrades urea during the electrocatalytic process. A more vivid effect of urea degradation can be recognized from the color change of the solution during the measurement process. The digital photos of the solution after different treatment times are shown in Figure \$15B (Supporting Information). It can be seen that the wastewater changed from dark green to light green after treatment for 60 h. Impressively, the urea degradation rate of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> reached 61.62% after 60 h, which indicates that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> has great potential as a catalyst for large-scale hydrogen production and purification of urea-rich wastewater.

#### 2.2.3. HER Activity and Stability

During hydrogen evolution, water molecules are first adsorbed on the surface of the catalyst and then dissociated into key intermediates (i.e., H<sub>ads</sub>). Because H<sub>ads</sub> is the first step in the movement of hydrogen atoms from gas to the metal surface, it has a considerable impact on the effect of hydrogen evolution reactions (Figure 5A). Firstly, measure HER polarization curves at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> using LSV curves (Figure 5B). The overpotential at a current density of  $10~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$  was used as the basis for comparison of catalytic activity. The overpotential of bare NF is 226 mV, and that of pure Ni(OH), is 174 mV (Figure 5C; Figure S16, Supporting Information). After the introduction of SeO<sub>x</sub>, the catalytic performance of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> material was greatly improved (52 mV). Although O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> has better catalytic activity, there is still a certain gap compared with Pt/C (48 mV) (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Surprisingly, as expected, compared to the vast majority of other reported excellent catalysts, such as P-W-NiCo@C<sup>[2c]</sup>, P/Cr<sub>60</sub>-NiMoO<sub>4</sub>, [1c] Ni-S-Se/NF<sup>[33]</sup> and CoMn/CoMn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>,  $^{[34]}$  O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> showed even better potential for HER activity (Figure 5E; Table S5, Supporting Information). This enhanced catalytic activity of the O<sub>y</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> material can be attributed to the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> regulating the electronic environment of the active center Ni and promoting the absorption of water.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 5.** HER electrocatalytic activity and durability in 1.0 M KOH solution. A) Schematic diagram of HER. B) LSV curves of different self-supported electrodes. C) HER overpotential at 20/100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. D) Tafel slope. E) Comparison of electrochemical HER performance of this work with other reported electrodes. F) Nyquist plots (inset shows the equivalent circuit). G) Stability measurement of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

Importantly, the performance of the Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 electrode without IR correction is still superior to the vast majority of other reported catalysts (Figure S18, Supporting Information). This result further demonstrates the potential of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 electrode in the field of HER electrocatalysis. Figure 5D show that Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 with the best activity has the lowest Tafel slope (108.05 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), which is much lower than 145.28 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of Ni(OH)2 and 166.19 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of NF. The results show that the catalytic process of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 is consistent with Volmer-Heyrovsky mechanism, and its kinetics is more favorable to electrochemical hydrogen evolution.[\[15,35\]](#page-15-0) As shown in (Figure 5F; Table S6, Supporting Information), the Nyquist figure of

different samples shows that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> has the smallest semicircle diameter and the lowest impedance, indicating that the introduction of SeO<sub>x</sub> can strongly promote charge transfer through electron coupling effect and accelerate the occurrence of catalytic reactions.

According to the area of the redox peak in the CV curves (Figure S19A, Supporting Information) and the formula  $Q_s =$ S<sub>H</sub>/V (where S<sub>H</sub> represents the peak area, V stands for scanning rate) estimated surface charge Q<sub>s</sub>,<sup>[36]</sup> calculated the specific number of active sites, and further determined the turnover frequency (TOF) to further understand the intrinsic activity and catalytic efficiency of the electrocatalyst. The estimated Q<sub>s</sub> of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and bare NF were 560.50, 421.22 and 187.91 mC, respectively. In Figure S19B (Supporting Information), the calculated TOF is compared in the potential range of -0.09 to -0.17 V, and the TOF values of  $O_v$ -SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is significantly higher than that of Ni(OH), at the same potential. Furthermore, the TOF value of  $O_v$ -SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is 0.03415 s<sup>-1</sup> at -0.15 V, 2.4 times that of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (0.0142 s<sup>-1</sup>) and 6.0 times that of bare NF (0.0057 s<sup>-1</sup>). Suggesting that the introduction of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub> leads to the electron modulation of the Ni center and promotes the Volmer process, so that the electrocatalytic activity of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is significantly improved. Finally, the stability of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> was tested within 60 h. The corresponding current-time curve shows no significant loss of activity, indicating good stability (Figure 5G).

After long-term stability test, the morphology and microstructure of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> were further characterized. From the SEM image, after the long-term stability test of HER for 60 h,  $\rm O_{v}\textsc{-}$ SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode still maintains the flower-like structure to a certain extent, and the shape remains basically unchanged. Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers can still be seen on the surface covered by a layer of amorphous SeO<sub>x</sub>, but the surface roughness increases (Figure S20, Supporting Information). This may be related to the surface remodeling of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> electrode. Moreover, the XRD pattern after HER long-term stability reaction for 60 h is similar to that of the original electrode, and no new peak point appears (Figure S21, Supporting Information), indicating that the amorphous structure of the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> compound also remains stable during HER process. XPS shows that Ni, Se, and O elements are uniformly distributed in the catalyst (Figure S22, Supporting Information). After HER, the XPS of Ni, Se and O elements were corrected at C 1s (284.8 eV) (Figure S23A, Supporting Information). In the XPS spectrum of Ni 2p (Figure S23B, Supporting Information), the disappearance and presence of the Ni-O characteristic peak at 855.75 eV indicate that partial oxidation/hydroxylation occurred on the electrocatalyst surface during HER testing. [18] This indicated that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> structure is stable, with hypervalent NiOOH mainly active material, the se 3d signal that has weakened strength (Figure S23C, Supporting Information). In addition, the presence of surface oxygen was confirmed by O 1s XPS spectroscopy (Figure S23D, Supporting Information). Compared with initial Ni(OH)2, the O<sub>v</sub> contribution (O2 peak) of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> after HER long-term stability test was higher than that of initial Ni(OH)2, to further confirming that the presence of SeO<sub>x</sub> may also promote the formation of O<sub>v</sub> in Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Table S4, Supporting Information). Overall, the complex structure of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is basically stable under electrochemical her condition.

#### 2.2.4. UOR | HER System Activity and Stability

The theoretical driving potential required for electrolytic hydrogen production with urea oxidation is 0.37 V, which is an ideal choice for energy saving electrolytic hydrogen production instead of OER anode half-reaction. This alternative can reduce the energy consumption of the hydrogen production process and improve energy efficiency, the detailed reaction process is schematically depicted in Figure 6A. Considering that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> has good bifunctional electrocatalytic activity for both UOR and HER, and O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is used as two electrodes for the reaction between UOR and HER, a hydrogen production device with energy-saving performance is assembled (Figure 6B). First, the O.-SeO../Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is also shown as the anode and cathode electrode in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution, the LSV curves under the different scanning rate (5–50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) is shown in Figure 6C. It can be seen from the Figure 6C that the UOR activity is independent of the scanning rate at both low and high current densities. This indicates that the O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst has good charge transfer ability and non-capacitive control characteristics in the process of acting as both anode and cathode electrode. Experiments show that at current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, UOR || HER is significantly smaller than traditional OER || HER (1.46 V@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 1.87 V@100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), with an average energy saving of  $\approx$ 85%, which indicates that urea-assisted hydrolysis is advantageous (Figure 6D,E), including lower battery voltage and lower energy consumption. In particular, compared with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (1.46 V@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 1.75  $V@10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ) and NF (1.54  $V@10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ , 1.84 V@100 mAcm<sup>-2</sup>), O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> shows lower cell voltages of 1.33 and 1.57 V, respectively, achieving a total urea-assisted water decomposition current density of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figures 6F,G; Figure S24, Supporting Information). It also showed a higher potential than the commercial catalyst of Pt/C || RuO2 (1.54 V@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure S25, Supporting Information). It is worth noting that O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> || O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is superior to recently developed electrocatalysts such as P-W-NiCo@C || P-W-NiCo@C,<sup>[2c]</sup> NiS/MoS<sub>2</sub>@CC || NiS/MoS<sub>2</sub>@CC,<sup>[37]</sup> Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>- $Ni_3P/NF \parallel Ni_3S_2-Ni_3P/NF^{[38]}$  and  $Ni-S-Se/NF \parallel Ni-S-Se/NF^{[33]}$ in urea electrolysis performance (Figure 6H; Table S7, Supporting Information). In addition, the R<sub>ct</sub> of O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>v</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ||  $O_v$ -Se $O_x$ /Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is 4.077  $\Omega$ , which is far less than Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> | Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $R_{ct} = 160.10 \Omega$ ) and bare NF || NF ( $R_{ct} = 1575 \Omega$ ), which indicates that the introduction of SeO<sub>x</sub> can strongly improve the transfer of charge through the electronic combined effect (Figure 6I). Most importantly, O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> || O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> showed negligible activity attenuation at a high current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (10.27%) for 60 h (Figure 6J), and the potential is only shifted by 45 mV (Figure S26, Supporting Information), showing good long-term stability. In addition, after 60 h long-term stability test, the potential of SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst at 10/100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is still higher than that of the initial OER||HER system (Figure S27, Supporting Information). The potential of using UOR instead of OER for auxiliary electrolysis of water to produce hydrogen was further demonstrated. Furthermore, the two-electrode system can be powered by a 1.50 V battery, and the bubbles generated by the electrodes are clearly visible (Figure S28, Supporting Information). Based on these combined advantages, O<sub>v</sub>-SeO<sub>x</sub>/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> can be considered as a

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 6.** UOR||HER system activity and durability in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution. A) Schematic diagram of the urea-assisted water spilling to produce hydrogen. B) Schematic diagram of a full-cell in which Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 serves as both the anode and cathode. C) LSV curves of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 at different scan rate (inset shows the corresponding current densities at 1.60 V with different scan rates). D) LSV curves of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 in 1.0 M KOH solution with/without 0.5 M urea. E) UOR || HER and OER || HER system potential at 10/100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. F) LSV curves of different self-supported electrodes towards UOR. G) UOR || HER system potential at 10/100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. H) Comparison of electrochemical UOR || HER system performance of this work with other reported electrodes. I) Nyquist plots (inset shows the equivalent circuit). J) Stability measurement of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 as both the anode and cathode at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Figure 7.** Schematic illustration of water adsorption for A) Ni(OH)2. C) SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and E) Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. Schematic illustration of urea adsorption for B) Ni(OH)2. D) SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and F) Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. The adsorption energy of water and urea molecules on Ni(OH)2, SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. G) Water. H) Urea.

promising self-supporting electrode for energy saving hydrogen production.

### **2.3. Mechanism Analysis**

To further investigate the underlying reasons for the excellent electrocatalytic activity of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 on UOR and HER, DFT calculation was used to reveal the potential catalytic mechanism of UOR and HER reaction pathway in alkaline environment. Based on XPS results and previous studies,[\[20a,39\]](#page-15-0) a model of pure Ni(OH)2 (Figure S29A and 30A, Supporting Information), amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* (Figure S29B, Supporting Information), Ni(OH)2 co-modified by amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* (SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2) (Figures S29C and 31A, Supporting Information), Ov and amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* introduced by pure Ni(OH)2 (Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2) was constructed (Figures S29D and 32A, Supporting Information). In general, the adsorption energy of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 catalyst surface water and urea molecules is a crucial indicator in the urea oxidation process, because UOR and OER compete with each other. As can be seen from **Figure 7**A-F, Figures S30B,D, S31B,D and S32B,D (Supporting Information), urea molecules are more likely to adsorb on the catalyst than water molecules, indicating that UOR is superior to OER.[\[39a,40\]](#page-16-0) More importantly, Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 (−1.156 eV) showed a stronger urea adsorption energy than SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 (0.893 eV) and Ni(OH)2 (−0.613 eV) Figure 7G,H, indicating that the presence of Ov and amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* can effectively enhance urea adsorption, which is conducive to the progress of UOR process.

To reveal the manipulation of electron spins by Ov on an amorphous/crystalline composite-type catalysts, the work function () of the model was calculated using DFT (**Figures 8**[A-C\)](#page-13-0), which are 3.944 eV (Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2), 3.858 eV (SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2) and

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**Figure 8.** Electrostatic potentials of A) the Ni(OH)2, B) SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and C) Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. Isosurface of the local charge density variation of D) SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and E) Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 in which the yellow and cyan areas denote electron accumulation as well as depletion regions. F) Calculated DOS of Ni(OH)2, SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. The PDOS of metal orbitals in G) Ni(OH)2, H) SeO*<sup>x</sup>* /Ni(OH)2 and I) Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. J) Density of states projection of metal d orbitals in Ni(OH)2, SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2. K) Gibbs free energy (ΔGH\*) diagram of the HER for Ni(OH)2, and Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 on different active sites.

2.507 eV (Ni(OH)2), respectively, suggesting that electrons are favorable for the transfer from crystalline Ni(OH)2 to amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* until the two Fermi energies (EF) can reach the same level.[\[41\]](#page-16-0) The difference in charge density in Figure [7D,E](#page-12-0) shows that the charge redistribution occurs at the SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 heterogenous interface, where the electron-rich SeO*<sup>x</sup>* region and the electron-poor Ni(OH)2 region can be clearly seen. This suggests that some of the electrons of Ni(OH)2 can be spontaneously transferred to the adjacent SeO*x*. In electrochemical UOR processes, this strong electron interaction in the interface region may be conducive to optimizing the absorption/desorption behavior of the reaction intermediates,[\[39a\]](#page-16-0) which may be one of the reasons for the superior electrocatalytic UOR performance of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2.

Moreover, the introduction of Ov can enrich the d orbital orientation of Ni(OH)2 active site, and adjust the distribution of electrons in some d orbitals. Compared with SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2, Ov leads to more localization of electron states near the Fermi level (That is, in the interface region, the amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* side is in an electron-rich state, Figures [8D,E\)](#page-13-0), which is also consistent with projected density of states (PDOS) analysis of Ov induced electron localization at Se and calculated work functions. In summary, the Ov alters the redistribution of electrons in the d orbital, which in turn affects the thermodynamics and dynamics of the reactions of different intermediate substances on the surface. These results suggest that the existence of Ov and amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* regulate the electronic structure of Ni and accelerate electron transfer to improve UOR activity.

To gain a deeper understanding of the electronic structure of the amorphous/crystalline interface, the total density of states (TDOS) and PDOS of the samples were calculated. Figure [8F](#page-13-0) shows that the TDOS of SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 near the EF is stronger than that of Ni(OH)2, which indicates that the conductivity and charge transfer dynamics can indeed be improved by constructing heterogeneous structures. The TDOS of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 near the EF is stronger than that of SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2, which indicates that the high conductivity and charge transfer kinetics of catalysts can be further improved by the presence of Ov defects. It is worth noting that it is not difficult to find that the DOS near EF of each catalyst mainly comes from the 3D state of Ni (Figures [8G-I\)](#page-13-0), which is closely related to the electronic interaction between the adsorption and the surface of the heterogeneous catalyst. A large number of studies[\[42\]](#page-16-0) have shown that the introduction of other elements or defects in Ni-based materials can effectively regulate the electronic structure of the active center Ni, so as to regulate the D-band center (Ed), which is conducive to the adsorption/resolution of urea molecules in the catalyst during the reaction process, and finally achieve excellent urea oxidation reaction kinetics. In Figure [8J,](#page-13-0) the Ed values of Ni(OH)2, SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 and Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 are −2.10, −2.69 and −2.57 eV, respectively, where the appropriate Ed values of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 help to establish a delicate balance during the adsorption/desorption process of reaction intermediates[\[43\]](#page-16-0) (The Ed value is the average value of all Ni elements). Thus, Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 has efficient UOR activity. Meanwhile, Se orbitals have a wide distribution range and is located in the deep position of EF, indicating that their electron rich characteristics not only help to maintain the valence state of Ni site, but also balance the adsorption/desorption of reaction intermediates at the active site.

For HER, the energy of the reaction pathway was calculated in an alkaline environment.[\[8,41\]](#page-15-0) Note that the atomic hydrogen reactant formation (Volmer step) is generally rate-determining for alkaline HER because water dissociation as an additional step is prerequisite for proton supply in alkali. Thus, such a shift from Volmer to Heyrovsky limitations means that catalyst can accelerate the rate of water dissociation in alkali and meanwhile the slight Heyrovsky limitation suggests a desirable coordination of atomic hydrogen adsorption and desorption transitions to generate H2. Therefore, the hydrolytic dissociation capacity catalyzed by Ni(OH)2 and Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2was further analyzed. Due to the highly active Ni site, the energy required for H2 generation on Ni(OH)2 and SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 is 0.992 and 0.875 eV, respectively (Figure [8K\)](#page-13-0). In contrast, HER on Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 presents a significant barrier of only 0.77 eV, reducing the overall reaction efficiency. This results indicates that the introduction of amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* greatly accelerates the slow Volmer mechanism on Ni(OH)2.

Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 has excellent electrocatalytic UOR, HER activity and stability factors: 1) The introduction of amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* may changes the density of the electron cloud around Ni(OH)2 and optimizes the electronic structure of the central active metal Ni. 2) The introduction of amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* makes Ni(OH)2 catalyst with abundant defects (such as oxygen vacancy defects) and abundant edge sites, thus enhancing its electrocatalytic activity and stability. 3) The introduction of amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* enhanced the ECSA of Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2, effectively promoted the adsorption of small urea molecules and H2O molecules on the catalyst, significantly reduced the UOR process and hydrolysis ionization barrier. 4) The introduction of amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* optimized the thermodynamics and kinetics of the active center NiOOH, promoted the adsorption of urea molecules by the catalyst, reduced the hydrolysis ionization energy barrier. 5) The introduction of amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* will form p-n heterojunction when it hybridized with Ni(OH)2, and the built-in electric field constructed at the interface may promote the transfer of catalyst electrons at the interface, thus promoting electron transfer in the catalytic reaction process.

### **3. Conclusion**

In conclusion, a self-supporting bifunction electrode (Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2) consisting of coordination of Ov with amorphous SeO*x*-coated Ni(OH)2 nanoflowers, was synthesized by two-step hydrothermal method. The Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 catalyst showed high and stable electrocatalytic activity for UOR and HER due to its surface reconstruction, high electrochemically active surface area and improved charge transferability. Meanwhile, the existence of Ov defect and amorphous SeO*<sup>x</sup>* alters the electron cloud density around Ni(OH)2 and optimizes the electronic structure of the central metal site, and significantly reduced the deprotonation process of UOR and the dissociation barrier of hydrolysis. In particular, urea-assisted hydrogen electrolysis systems using Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2 as bifunctional electrodes require only 1.33 and 1.57 V battery potential to provide current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. This work provides a potential way to develop UOR electrocatalysts with excellent activity.

### <span id="page-15-0"></span>**4. Experimental Section**

*Synthesis of Ni(OH)2*: First, 1.0 mmol Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, 7.0 mmol CO(NH2)2 and 3.0 mmol NH4F dissolve in 35 mL DW and stir them on a magnetic agitator for 30 min to obtain a uniform mixed solution, which was then transferred to the inner liner of a 50 mL polytetrafluoroethylene autoclave. Subsequently, the cleaned NF (3 × 3 cm2) was vertically immersed in the lining, then sealed with a stainless steel reactor shell, and reacted in an oven at 120 °C for 6 h. Then, after cooling to room temperature, the product was repeatedly cleaned with water and ethanol, respectively. Finally, it was dried overnight in a vacuum drying oven at 80 °C to obtain Ni(OH)2.

*Synthesis of Ov-SeOx/Ni(OH)2*: First, 2.0 mmol selenium powder and 1.7 mmol NaBH4 dissolve in a 50 mL beaker filled with 35 mL DW and stir on a magnetic stirrer for 2 h to obtain a uniform brick-red mixed solution. Here NaBH4 was used as a reducing agent to reduce Se to Se2<sup>−</sup>. Next, it was moved to a liner of 50 mL polytetrafluoroethylene autoclave, and the Ni(OH)2 obtained in the previous step was vertically immersed in the liner, sealed with a stainless steel reactor housing and reacted in an oven at 120 °C for 2 h. Finally, after cooling, the product was repeatedly cleaned with water and ethanol, and then dried overnight in a vacuum drying oven at 80 °C to obtain Ov-SeO*x*/Ni(OH)2.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

The work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2018YFB1502700), the Natural Science Foundation of Sichuan Province (No. 2022NSFSC1192), Provincial Transfer Payment Project of Ya'an City (2022ZYZF0007) and Creative Project of Engineering Research Center of Alternative Energy Materials & Devices, Ministry of Education, Sichuan University (AEMD−C202203). In addition, the authors also would like to thank Jie Zhang from Central Lab of College of Materials Science and Engineering at Sichuan University for the XRD measurement.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

### **Keywords**

amorphous/crystalline interfaces, electronic structure regulation, hydrogen evolution reaction, oxygen-vacancy defects, urea oxidation reaction

> Received: October 14, 2024 Revised: December 20, 2024 Published online: January 15, 2025

[1] a) D. Li, R. Xiang, F. Yu, J. Zeng, Y. Zhang, W. Zhou, L. Liao, Y. Zhang, D. Tang, H. Zhou, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *36*, 2305685; b) J. Bak, T. G. Yun,

- J. S. An, H. B. Bae, S. Y. Chung, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 610; c) Y. Li, H. Guo, Y. Zhang, R. Song, *Appl. Catal., B* **2024**, *341*, 123296; d) L. Yang, R. He, X. Wang, T. Yang, T. Zhang, Y. Zuo, X. Lu, Z. Liang, J. Li, J. Arbiol, P. R. Martínez-Alanis, X. Qi, A. Cabot, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *115*, 108714.
- [2] a) X. Xu, H. Ullah, M. Humayun, L. Li, X. Zhang, M. Bououdina, D. P. Debecker, K. Huo, D. Wang, C. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2303986; b) Y. Zhou, B. Chu, Z. Sun, L. Dong, F. Wang, B. Li, M. Fan, Z. Chen, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *323*, 122168; c) Q. Chen, X. Deng, H. He, L. Jiang, C. Liang, J. Zhang, R. Wang, J. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *484*, 149561.
- [3] a) H. Qin, Y. Ye, J. Li, W. Jia, S. Zheng, X. Cao, G. Lin, L. Jiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *33*, 2209698; b) Y. Liu, Z. Yang, Y. Zou, S. Wang, J. He, *Energy & Environmental Materials* **2023**, *7*, e12576; c) V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2013**, *108*, 660.
- [4] a) M. Pan, G. Qian, T. Yu, J. Chen, L. Luo, Y. Zou, S. Yin, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *435*, 134986; b) S. Feng, J. Luo, J. Li, Y. Yu, Z. Kang, W. Huang, Q. Chen, P. Deng, Y. Shen, X. Tian, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2022**, *23*, 100646; c) Y. Zhang, C. Wang, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *32*, 2222.
- [5] G. Ma, Q. Xue, J. Zhu, X. Zhang, X. Wang, H. Yao, G. Zhou, Y. Chen, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *265*, 118567.
- [6] W. Yang, X. Yang, B. Li, J. Lin, H. Gao, C. Hou, X. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 26364.
- [7] a) M. Yan, Y. Zeng, Y. Mou, J. Hu, W. Tang, C. Jiang, Q. Li, Y. Zhao, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2023**, *931*, 167465; b) S. Ligani Fereja, P. Li, Z. Zhang, J. Guo, Z. Fang, Z. Li, S. He, W. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *432*, 134274.
- [8] G. Qian, J. Chen, W. Jiang, T. Yu, K. Tan, S. Yin, *Carbon Energy* **2023**, *5*, e368.
- [9] Q. Cao, Y. Yuan, K. Wang, W. Huang, Y. Zhao, X. Sun, R. Ding, W. Lin, E. Liu, P. Gao, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *618*, 411.
- [10] Z. Wang, W. Liu, J. Bao, Y. Song, X. She, Y. Hua, G. Lv, J. Yuan, H. Li, H. Xu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 133100.
- [11] a) K. Zhang, S. Wang, X. Li, H. Li, Y. Ni, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2300054; b) Z. Yu, Y. Li, V. Martin-Diaconescu, L. Simonelli, J. Ruiz Esquius, I. Amorim, A. Araujo, L. Meng, J. L. Faria, L. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2206138.
- [12] M. Liu, W. Zou, J. Cong, N. Su, S. Qiu, L. Hou, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2302698.
- [13] D. Li, W. Wan, Z. Wang, H. Wu, S. Wu, T. Jiang, G. Cai, C. Jiang, F. Ren, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2201913.
- [14] X. Xu, L. Xu, X. Wei, M. Huang, A. Toghan, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2023**, *36*, 101148.
- [15] X. Song, W. Zhu, J. Ni, Y. Zhao, T. Zhang, Z. Tan, L. Liu, X. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 33151.
- [16] X. Xu, J. Li, C. Zhang, S. Zhang, G. Su, Z. Shi, H. Wang, M. Huang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *319*, 121949.
- [17] X. Jia, H. Kang, X. Yang, Y. Li, K. Cui, X. Wu, W. Qin, G. Wu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *312*, 121389.
- [18] S. Shen, Z. Wang, Z. Lin, K. Song, Q. Zhang, F. Meng, L. Gu, W. Zhong, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110631.
- [19] a) J. Xie, W. Liu, X. Zhang, Y. Guo, L. Gao, F. Lei, B. Tang, Y. Xie, *ACS Mater. Lett.* **2019**, *1*, 103; b) J. Xie, W. Liu, F. Lei, X. Zhang, H. Qu, L. Gao, P. Hao, B. Tang, Y. Xie, *Chemistry – A European Journal* **2018**, *24*, 18408.
- [20] a) Y. Zhang, H. Guo, M. Song, L. Sun, R. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 3584; b) X. Luo, P. Ji, P. Wang, R. Cheng, D. Chen, C. Lin, J. Zhang, J. He, Z. Shi, N. Li, S. Xiao, S. Mu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903891; c) C. Wu, B. Liu, J. Wang, Y. Su, H. Yan, C. Ng, C. Li, J. Wei, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2018**, *441*, 1024.
- [21] B. Qiu, C. Wang, N. Zhang, L. Cai, Y. Xiong, Y. Chai, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6484.
- [22] a) J. Xie, H. Qu, F. Lei, X. Peng, W. Liu, L. Gao, P. Hao, G. Cui, B. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 16121; b) J. Xie, L. Gao, S. Cao, W. Liu, F. Lei, P. Hao, X. Xia, B. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 13577; c) Z.

- <span id="page-16-0"></span>Wei, W. Sun, S. Liu, J. Qi, L. Kang, J. Li, S. Lou, J. Xie, B. Tang, Y. Xie, *Particuology* **2021**, *57*, 104.
- [23] a) W. Sun, J. Li, W. Gao, L. Kang, F. Lei, J. Xie, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 2430; b) X. Yang, L. Kang, Z. Wei, S. Lou, F. Lei, P. Hao, J. Xie, B. Tang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *422*, 130139; c) M. Hao, J. Chen, J. Chen, K. Wang, J. Wang, F. Lei, P. Hao, X. Sun, J. Xie, B. Tang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *642*, 41.
- [24] T. Yu, Q. Xu, J. Chen, G. Qian, X. Zhuo, H. Yang, S. Yin, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *449*, 137791.
- [25] L. Xia, Y. Liao, Y. Qing, H. Xu, Z. Gao, W. Li, Y. Wu, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 2996.
- [26] H. Sun, J. Liu, H. Kim, S. Song, L. Fei, Z. Hu, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, F. Ciucci, W. Jung, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*.
- [27] J. Zhang, X. Song, L. Kang, J. Zhu, L. Liu, Q. Zhang, D. J. L. Brett, P. R. Shearing, L. Mai, I. P. Parkin, G. He, *Chem Catalysis* **2022**, *2*, 3254.
- [28] Z. Yu, C. Lang, M. Gao, Y. Chen, Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 1890.
- [29] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *34*.
- [30] L. Bai, S. Lee, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *60*, 3095.
- [31] C. Huang, Q. Zhou, D. Duan, L. Yu, W. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Liu, B. Peng, P. An, J. Zhang, L. Li, J. Yu, Y. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4647.
- [32] Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, L. Yu, G. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*.
- [33] N. Chen, Y. X. Du, G. Zhang, W. T. Lu, F. F. Cao, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *81*.

- [34] C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*.
- [35] Y. Tang, C. Yang, X. Xu, Y. Kang, J. Henzie, W. Que, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*.
- [36] a) Q. Chen, Z. Chen, A. Ali, Y. Luo, H. Feng, Y. Luo, P. Tsiakaras, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *427*; b) X. Xu, A. Cao, W. You, Z. Tao, L. Kang, J. Liu, *Small* **2021**, *17*.
- [37] C. Gu, G. Zhou, J. Yang, H. Pang, M. Zhang, Q. Zhao, X. Gu, S. Tian, J. Zhang, L. Xu, Y. Tang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *443*.
- [38] J. Liu, Y. Wang, Y. Liao, C. Wu, Y. Yan, H. Xie, Y. Chen, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 26948.
- [39] a) G. Qian, J. Chen, W. Jiang, T. Yu, K. Tan, S. Yin, *Carbon Energy* **2023**, *5*, e368; b) L. Yang, R. He, X. Wang, T. Yang, T. Zhang, Y. Zuo, X. Lu, Z. Liang, J. Li, J. Arbiol, P. R. Martínez Alanis, X. Qi, A. Cabot, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *115*.
- [40] M. Yang, Y. Jiang, M. Qu, Y. Qin, Y. Wang, W. Shen, R. He, W. Su, M. Li, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *269*.
- [41] L. Li, X. Zhang, M. Humayun, X. Xu, Z. Shang, Z. Li, M. F. Yuen, C. Hong, Z. Chen, J. Zeng, M. Bououdina, K. Temst, X. Wang, C. Wang, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *18*, 1214.
- [42] a) H. Xie, Y. Feng, X. He, Y. Zhu, Z. Li, H. Liu, S. Zeng, Q. Qian, G. Zhang, *Small* **2023**, *19*; b) L. Guo, J. Chi, J. Zhu, T. Cui, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *320*; c) S. Saini, J. Halldin Stenlid, F. Abild-Pedersen, *npj Comput. Mater.* **2022**, *8*, 163; d) S. Sun, X. Zhou, B. Cong, W. Hong, G. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 9086.
- [43] X. Xu, X. Wei, L. Xu, M. Huang, A. Toghan, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *85*, 116.