---
source: Dharman 等 - 2025 - Regulating the Electronic Structure of Tungsten Carbide‐Induced Co(OH)2 for Efficient Wat.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 42.343s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:46:58.229607Z
---

**[www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

# **Regulating the Electronic Structure of Tungsten Carbide-Induced Co(OH)2 for Efficient Water and Urea Electrolysis in Hydrogen Production from Urea-Containing Water**

*Ranjith Kumar Dharman, Pandian Mannu, Athibala Mariappan, Chung-Li Dong,\* and Tae Hwan Oh\**

**Urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is considered a capable method for simultaneously producing hydrogen and treating urea-rich wastewater. The development of well-designed, high-performance electrocatalysts is crucial for efficient urea oxidation. In this study, a tungsten carbide (WC) and Co(OH)2 nanocomposite (WC@Co(OH)2) is synthesized through a simple hydrothermal process for electrocatalytic UOR performance. X-ray absorption spectroscopy revealed that WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited higher levels of high-spin Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> electronic states compared to pristine Co(OH)2. The optimized WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts showed remarkable activity in the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and UOR, with potentials of 0.152, 1.475, and 1.38 V, @ 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. The WC@Co(OH)2-2 catalyst also exhibited a high turnover frequency of 31.2 s<sup>−</sup>1. Moreover, an overall urea electrolysis system constructed with the prepared WC@Co(OH)2, attained 1.55 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is 0.21 V lower than the potential required for overall water splitting. In situ Raman result revealed the quick reconstruction of WC1-x@Co(OH)2, where tungsten species infiltrate into CoOOH, forming a restored WC1-x@CoOOH layer that serves as the active species for water splitting. Furthermore, the WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited a high Faradaic efficiency of 92.18% and exceptional durability. This work broadens the UOR electrocatalyst and contributes the advancement of energy-efficient hydrogen production technologies.**

**1. Introduction**

The over-dependence on conventional fossil fuels has led to energy scarcity, exacerbating environmental threats due to the

R. K. Dharman, A. Mariappan, T. H. Oh School of Chemical Engineering Yeungnam University Gyeongsan 38541, South Korea E-mail: [taehwanoh@ynu.ac.kr](mailto:taehwanoh@ynu.ac.kr)

P. Mannu, C.-L. Dong Department of Physics Tamkang University New Taipei 25137, Taiwan E-mail: [cldong@mail.tku.edu.tw](mailto:cldong@mail.tku.edu.tw)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202501189>

**DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202501189**

greenhouse effect. As a result, significant global research is focused on the development of green and renewable energy sources. Hydrogen energy, considered a promising alternative to commercial fossil fuels, offers substantial advantages in terms of sustainability, pollution-free nature, and ultrahigh energy density.[\[1,2\]](#page-10-0) Hydrogen (H2) is a key clean fuel due to its simple atomic structure and ability to generate power without emitting carbon dioxide. Additionally, hydrogen's energy yield is three times greater than that of hydrocarbon fuels and five times higher than methanol.[\[3\]](#page-10-0) The most common H2 production techniques rely on fossil fuels, which are expensive and produce pollutants. Therefore, it is crucial to develop cost-effective and environmentally friendly methods for hydrogen production, such as water-splitting processes, which utilize water as the primary input, including electrocatalysis and photocatalysis.[\[4,5\]](#page-10-0) Electrocatalytic water splitting is a viable and sustainable method for H2 production, efficiently converting electrical energy into

chemical energy. Typically, two half-reactions are contained in water splitting: the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[\[6\]](#page-10-0) However, water electrolysis involving OER and HER is hindered by sluggish kinetics. Thus, effective and reliable electrocatalysts are necessary to accelerate the water-splitting process.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) While noble metals (Pt, Ru, and Ir) exhibit excellent HER and OER activity, their practical application is limited due to their shortage and expensive. Therefore, it is essential to develop earth-abundant catalysts to replace precious metal-based materials.[\[6,8\]](#page-10-0)

Recent efforts have highlighted the exploration of half-cell reaction catalysts, resulting in significant achievements. However, these electrocatalysts typically exhibit efficient catalytic activity in either alkaline or acidic electrolytes. The stability of electrocatalysts is heavily influenced by the electrolyte pH, as extreme pH values (acidic or alkaline) can impede ion transport to the electrode surface. In acidic conditions, the HER benefits from

abundant protons, which facilitate rapid hydrogen adsorption. However, the OER is hindered by the energy-demanding process of water splitting to generate OH<sup>−</sup> ions.[\[9\]](#page-10-0) This process involves complex steps—OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption, oxide formation, and O2 cleavage—requiring four electron-proton transfers, resulting in high anodic overpotentials. Additionally, catalyst corrosion in acidic media reduces stability, impairs current supply, and increases cell voltage. In contrast, alkaline conditions promote the OER by enabling rapid OH<sup>−</sup> transport. However, the HER faces challenges due to the need for water dissociation to generate protons.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, developing cost-effective, highly active bifunctional catalysts is essential to prevent pH mismatches, simplify the reaction system, and reduce costs.[\[11,12\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, replacing the OER with the electrochemical oxidation of small molecules (such as urea,[\[13\]](#page-10-0) hydrazine,[\[14,15\]](#page-10-0) and sulfur ions[\[16\]](#page-10-0) ) provides an effective pathway for achieving efficient hydrogen production with reduced energy consumption. Among these, urea oxidation reaction (UOR) has garnered substantial attention due to its theoretical oxidation potential (0.37 V),[\[17\]](#page-10-0) which is significantly lower than the voltage needed for overall water splitting (1.23 V).[\[18\]](#page-10-0) Additionally, the UOR offers an effective methodology for the remediation of urea wastewater.[\[19,20\]](#page-10-0) Thus, the rational design of effective OER and UOR catalysts is crucial for electrocatalytic hydrogen production.

Recent studies have introduced various bifunctional electrocatalysts, including metal oxides,[\[21\]](#page-10-0) sulfides,[\[22,23\]](#page-10-0) layered double hydroxides,[\[24\]](#page-10-0) phosphides,[\[25\]](#page-10-0) selenides,[\[26\]](#page-10-0) and nitrides.[\[27\]](#page-10-0) Transition metal oxides and hydroxides, in particular, have emerged as promising electrocatalysts due to their versatile chemical compositions. Among these, cobalt hydroxide (Co(OH)2) is known for its excellent OER activity, attributed to its multivalent oxidation states and strong corrosion resistance.[\[28\]](#page-10-0) Co(OH)2 features a cationic brucite-like structure with a relatively open framework, providing more accessible active sites and facilitating rapid reactant and product diffusion. However, HER performance is limited due to insufficient active sites and poor capacity for converting Had intermediates into H2. [\[29\]](#page-10-0) This limitation is primarily due to its suboptimal electronic structure and low conductivity.[\[30,31\]](#page-10-0) Adjusting the electronic valence of cobalt is an effective strategy to enhance the electrochemical activity of Co(OH)2, which typically contains two Co3<sup>+</sup> ions at octahedral sites and one Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ion at a tetrahedral site.[\[32,33\]](#page-10-0) Various methods have been developed to modulate the atomic ratio of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Co3<sup>+</sup> sites, aiming to achieve superior electrochemical performance. Metal carbides, particularly tungsten carbide (WC), are considered among the most promising non-noble metal electrocatalysts due to their high electrical conductivity and Pt-like electron density around the Fermi level.[\[34\]](#page-10-0) WC has shown exceptional stability and conductivity, making it a potential alternative to conventional carbon materials, such as Vulcan XC-72, in fuel cells.[\[35\]](#page-10-0) Recently, Feng et al. modified the interfacial electronic field in a CoSe-Ni0.95Se and Ti3C2Tx heterostructure, enabling efficient hydrazine-assisted water splitting through electron transfer from Ni0.95Se to CoSe.[\[36\]](#page-10-0) Yuan et al. developed a Co-ZIF-derived Co@C and Ni3Se4-MoSe2 heterostructure for electrocatalytic urea-assisted water splitting, where the synergistic effect of Co@C and Ni3Se4-MoSe regulates the electronic states, modifies the d-band center, and redistributes the charge, enhancing catalytic performance.[\[37\]](#page-10-0) Liu et al. fabricated a ZIF67@CoNiSe electrocatalyst for hydrazineassisted water splitting, where the ultrathin nanosheets significantly improve the electrocatalytic properties for both hydrazine oxidation (HzOR) and HER.[\[38\]](#page-11-0) Shi et al. synthesized Fe-doped NiCoZnP heterogeneous electrocatalysts for HER and HzOR, where the incorporation of Fe shifts the d-band center toward the Fermi level, optimizing the electronic structure for enhanced electrochemical activity.[\[39\]](#page-11-0)

Here, we developed WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts for effective bifunctional electrocatalytic overall water and urea oxidation. The optimized WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts exhibited superior electrocatalytic activity for the OER, HER, and UOR. Under alkaline conditions, the surface of the WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts undergoes reconstruction to form the WC1-x@CoOOH species. Furthermore, the full urea electrolysis system, assembled with the prepared WC@Co(OH)2, operates at both the anode and cathode, providing a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1.55 V, which is 0.21 V lower than that required for overall water splitting. This study highlights the progress of metal hydroxide-based electrocatalysts for water electrolysis in alkaline electrolytes.

### **2. Results and Discussion**

**Figure <sup>1</sup>**[a](#page-2-0) illustrates the preparation method of WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts. Figure [1b,c](#page-2-0) shows the field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) images of WC, which exhibited an irregular, spherical-like morphology. Figure [1d,e](#page-2-0) display the FE-SEM images of WC@Co(OH)2-2, revealing the presence of both WC and flake-like Co(OH)2 in the nanocomposite. Moreover, the FESEM image WC@Co(OH)2-1 shows that the low presence of WC, whereas WC is more abundant in the WC@Co(OH)2-3 electrocatalysts (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images of WC@Co(OH)2-2 (Figure [1f–h\)](#page-2-0) clearly show that the WC particles are decorated on the Co(OH)2 nanoflakes. The observed interlayer spacing of 0.26 nm corresponds well to the (100) plane of Co(OH)2 (**Figure <sup>2</sup>**[g\)](#page-3-0).[\[40\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the lattice distance of WC, measured at 0.25 and 0.249 nm, corresponds to the (100) crystal plane of WC (Figure [1h1,1h2\)](#page-2-0).[\[41\]](#page-11-0) The elemental mapping images confirm the presence of W, C, Co, and O elements in the WC@Co(OH)2-2 nanocomposites (Figure [1i\)](#page-2-0).

The crystalline properties of the as-prepared electrocatalysts were analyzed using X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Figure [2a,](#page-3-0) the diffraction peak of Co(OH)2 corresponds to JCPDS Card No. 38–0547.[\[42\]](#page-11-0) Similarly, the characteristic peaks of WC match the hexagonal WC structure, with diffraction peaks consistent with JCPDS Card No. 51–0939.[\[43\]](#page-11-0) The diffraction peak intensities of Co(OH)2 in WC@Co(OH)2 decrease with increasing WC concentration. Additionally, the major peaks of Co(OH)2 and WC shift slightly toward higher 2 angles, which may indicate an intermediate state during the oxidation process.[\[44,45\]](#page-11-0) The Co(OH)2 peak was more suppressed in the WC@Co(OH)2-3 electrocatalysts due to the presence of a higher concentration of WC. The electronic interaction between WC and Co(OH)2 was further examined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As illustrated in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), the XPS survey spectra confirmed that the W, C, Co, and O elements were present in the WC@CO(OH)2-2 electrocatalysts. The XPS Co 2p spectra of Co(OH)2 show binding energies for Co3<sup>+</sup> (779.53 and

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. a) Preparation process of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>. FESEM images: b,c) WC, d,e) WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2. f-h) HRTEM images and i) elemental mapping of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2.

794.54 eV) and Co<sup>2+</sup> (781.04 and 796.23 eV) (Figure 2b). <sup>[46]</sup> Notably, the Co 2*p* peak in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 shifts toward higher binding energy by 0.48 eV, indicating a higher valence state of Co in the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 nanocomposite. <sup>[47]</sup> In addition, the content of Co<sup>3+</sup> increased in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, suggesting oxidation of Co<sup>2+</sup>. <sup>[48]</sup> As displayed in Figure 2c, the O 1s spectra of Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>, the binding energies were observed at 529.11, 530.55, and 532.16 eV, corresponding to M-O (metal-oxygen bond), O-H (indicating the presence of hydroxyl species), and H—O—H (surface-bonded water), respectively. <sup>[49]</sup> The ratio of metal-oxygen bonds decreases in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 due to the presence of tungsten carbide in Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>. In the W 4f spectra of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, the binding energies at 31.82 eV (W 4f<sub>7/2</sub>) and 33.99 eV (W

 $4f_{5/2}$ ) are associated with the W—C state, while the binding energies at 35.09 eV (W  $4f_{7/2}$ ) and 37.24 eV (W  $4f_{7/2}$ ) correspond to W—O (Figure 2d). [41.50] The intensity of the W—O peak increases due to the oxidation of WC during the hydrothermal process. Figure S3 (Supporting Information) reveals the C 1s spectra of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, indicating binding energies at 282.71 eV corresponding to C—W, 284.8 eV corresponding to C—C bond, and 287.82 eV corresponding to C—O. [51] The electron spin resonance (ESR) spectrum indicates defect sites in the electrocatalysts that contain unpaired electrons. As shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrocatalysts exhibited a higher ESR signal of unpaired electrons with g = 2.009 than Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>. These result indicates that the introduction of WC in

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. a) XRD patterns of the as-prepared electrocatalysts. XPS spectra of b) Co 2p, c) O 1s of Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, and d) W 4f of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2.

Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> induces a substantial formation of oxygen vacancies on WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrocatalysts.

The electronic structures and elemental states of Co(OH), and WC@Co(OH)2-2 were further determined by X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES). In the Co K-edge XANES spectra, the main absorption peak of Co(OH), is close to that of the CoO standard, confirming that Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> primarily exhibits a Co<sup>2+</sup> oxidation state (Figure 3a). In contrast, the Co K-edge XANES of WC@Co(OH)2, shows a significant shift in both the absorption edge and main absorption peak to higher energy, indicating an increased oxidation state of Co. [52] Additionally, the Co Kedge XANES spectra of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 exhibited a higher peak intensity comparable to that of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, further suggesting the presence of Co3+ in WC@Co(OH)2 and confirming the partial transformation of Co<sup>2+</sup> (Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>) to Co<sup>3+</sup> (WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>).<sup>[53]</sup> This observation is consistent with the XPS results discussed earlier (Figure 2b). Figure 3b shows the Fourier-transformed (FT) extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) for the

Co K-edge of Co(OH), and WC@Co(OH), 2, providing additional information about the local atomic structure. The overall FT-EXAFS Co R-space spectrum of Co(OH), is similar to that of CoO standard reference, exhibiting two dominant peaks at ≈1.56 and 2.72 Å, corresponding to Co-O and Co-Co-Co bonds, respectively.[54] In contrast, the Co R-space spectra of the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrocatalyst resemble those of the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> standard reference. Notably, the bond lengths of Co-O (1.42 Å) and Co-Co (2.39 Å) are shorter in WC@Co(OH), compared to Co(OH)2, which is ascribed to increased disorder due to structural distortion in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>.[55-57] Furthermore, the contraction of the Co-O bond length in WC@Co(OH), suggests the presence of Co<sup>3+</sup>, further supporting the higher oxidation state of Co in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>. These findings align with the Co K-edge spectra, again confirming the partial transformation of Co<sup>2+</sup> to Co<sup>3+</sup>. To further confirm the above observation and the atomic structure of the prepared electrocatalyst, the corresponding k<sup>3</sup>weighted EXAFS oscillations of the Co K-edge (Figure 3c) were

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Co K-edge XANES spectra, b) corresponding Co R-space FFT-EXAFS spectra of Co(OH)2 and WC@Co(OH)2-2, c) Fourier-transformed k<sup>3</sup> data of EXAFS oscillations for Co in *k-space*, d) W L3-edge XANES spectra, e) corresponding W R-space FFT-EXAFS spectra of WC and WC@Co(OH)2-2, and f) Co L-edge spectra of Co(OH)2 and WC@Co(OH)2-2.

recorded. The spectra in Figure 3c show distinct oscillations for both Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> (similar to Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>) and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst, demonstrating a dissimilar coordination environment around Co in WC@Co(OH)2. These results, along with the XANES and EXAFS spectra, confirm the presence of high-valent Co<sup>3+</sup> with cationic vacancies in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>.<sup>[53,58–60]</sup> Moreover, the different oscillation amplitudes in WC@Co(OH), indicate the occurrence of more disordered octahedra. This structural disorder in WC@Co(OH), is consistent with the observation in the pre-edge feature of the Co K-edge (Figure 3a, inset), which shows that the pre-edge peak intensity is slightly higher and shifted to higher energy than Co(OH)2, signifying increased octahedral symmetry disorder in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>. Thus, the pre-edge feature of the Co K-edge, associated with octahedrally coordinated Co<sup>3+</sup>, displays a greater intensity for WC@Co(OH), than for Co(OH), further supporting the enhanced cationic (cobalt) and oxygen vacancies in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

Further, the W L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES spectra for all the prepared catalysts were recorded (Figure 3d). The main XANES absorption peak intensity of WC@Co(OH), is lower than that of WC, indicating an increase in the electron density of the W 5d band compared to WC. This suggests the confinement of electron density at the tungsten atom in surface-confined Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure 3d). This parameter is crucial for determining the interaction energy between the adsorbate and the metal surface. [61-63] The effective electrocatalytic activity of WC@Co(OH), is likely attributed to the alteration in the d-band state of W compared to WC. Additionally, the FT-EXAFS spectra of WC exhibited two peaks at 1.85 and 2.66 Å, corresponding to the W-C and W-W bonds, respectively (Figure 3e). In WC@Co(OH)2-2, the bond lengths of W-C (1.84 Å) and W-W (2.59 Å) are shorter than those in WC. Furthermore, the reduced peak intensity of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 compared to WC, along with the protuberant edge shift, signifies the more reductive nature of WC@Co(OH)2. [64] This phenomenon is further supported by the k<sup>3</sup>-weighted EXAFS oscillations of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 (Figure S5, Supporting Information), which show smaller EXAFS oscillations compared to Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

To investigate the local geometrical structure, spin, and valence state of the prepared catalyst, soft X-ray absorption spectra were measured. The Co L₃-edge spectra (≈775–785 eV) of both CoO and Co(OH), exhibited several fine structures, indicated by vertical dashed lines, suggesting the high-spin (HS) state of Co<sup>2+</sup> with a  $t_{2g}^{5}e_{g}^{2}$  configuration (Figure 3f). [61-63] The spectral profile of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 differs significantly from that of Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>, with the predominant peak shifting to higher energy, ≈782 eV, which is attributable to the presence of a higher Co oxidation state (octahedral Co<sup>3+</sup> (HS)) at the surface. [60,65] The low-energy peak associated with HS Co<sup>2+</sup> remains present in WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, indicating that both Co<sup>2+</sup> and Co<sup>3+</sup> coexist in Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> following decoration with WC. Notably, WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited shoulderlike features on both the higher-energy (down arrow) and lowerenergy (up arrow) sides of the predominant peak, which can be attributed to low-spin (LS) Co<sup>3+</sup> and HS Co<sup>3+</sup>, respectively. However, it is challenging to conclude whether WC@Co(OH)2-2 contains both LS Co3+ and HS Co3+ or only one of these electronic states, as they strongly overlap with the energy region of the absorption features of HS Co<sup>2+</sup>. To clarify this, L<sub>2</sub>-edge was also studied. The L₂-edge (≈793–800 eV) of WC@Co(OH)₂-2 shifts to higher energy compared to that of Co(OH)2, strongly implying

that WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 exhibits HS Co<sup>3+</sup> electronic states. Consequently, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 reveals both HS Co<sup>3+</sup> and LS Co<sup>3+</sup> electronic states. It is suggested that the initial HS Co<sup>2+</sup> in Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> reconfigures to HS Co<sup>3+</sup> upon decoration with WC. Integrating the results obtained here with the previous W L-edge data, it is proposed that charge redistribution occurs from Co to W sites during the interaction between Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> and WC, which is consistent with the electronegativities of W (2.36) and Co (1.88). Hence, the Co L-edge spectra indicate an interaction between Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> and WC, likely due to metal-to-ligand charge transfer (MLCT), which results in the contraction of the Co—O bond.<sup>[61–63]</sup>

The electrochemical performance of the prepared electrocatalysts was demonstrated in 1 m KOH using a three-electrode system. As shown in Figure 4a, the overpotentials of WC, Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-1, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3, and RuO<sub>2</sub> were 405, 360, 310, 245, 350, and 270 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited a lower overpotential than the other electrocatalysts, significantly outperforming commercial RuO2. The current density of WC@Co(OH)2-2 was higher than that of the other electrocatalysts, indicating superior OER performance. The electrochemical performance of WC@Co(OH)2-3 electrocatalysts was decreased, which is due to the presence of a higher concentration of WC. Furthermore, WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited the smallest Tafel value (113 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) compared to WC (210 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> (168 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-1 (145 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3 (156 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 4b). This suggests that WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 exhibits faster kinetics during the OER process. Durability is another critical factor for practical applications. As shown in Figure 4c, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 maintains a stable potential after 100 h at current densities of 10 and 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Additionally, the LSV curve of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 after stability test remains nearly identical to its initial state, demonstrating excellent electrocatalyst stability (Figure 4c (inset)).

Figure 4d shows the LSV curve of different electrocatalysts for HER performance in an alkaline medium. The overpotentials of WC (398 mV), Co(OH), (325 mV), WC@Co(OH),-1 (208 mV), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 (152 mV), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3 (285 mV), and Pt/C (58 mV). The overpotential decreased with increasing WC concentration in Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>; however, further increasing the concentration led to an increase in overpotential. The WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 exhibited a lower overpotential than the other as-prepared electrocatalysts, and its performance was compared with previous reports (Tables S1 and S2, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 4e, the Tafel value of WC@Co(OH)2-2 is 106 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, indicating faster reaction kinetics than the other as-prepared electrocatalysts. Furthermore, chronopotentiometry measurements of WC@Co(OH)2-2 showed excellent stability during the HER performance (Figure 4f). The LSV polarization curve of WC@Co(OH)2-2 after the stability test showed only a slight increase in overpotential after 100 h at -10 and -50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> current densities (Figure 4f, inset). In addition, the Nyquist plot was used to estimate the reaction kinetics of the electrocatalysts during electrochemical performance. The Nyquist plot was fitted using an equivalent circuit to obtain the charge transfer resistance (R<sub>ct</sub>) of the prepared electrocatalysts (Figure 4g). The  $R_{ct}$  values for Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> (16.5  $\Omega$ ), WC (18.2  $\Omega$ ), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-1 (12.8  $\Omega$ ), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 (8.6  $\Omega$ ), and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3 (14.6  $\Omega$ ) were obtained. WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 exhibited the smallest R<sub>ct</sub>

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) OER LSV polarization curve of different electrocatalysts, b) corresponding Tafel plots, c) chronopotentiometry curve of WC@Co(OH)2-2 at 10 and 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (inset: LSV curves before and after stability testing), d) HER LSV polarization curve of different electrocatalysts, e) corresponding Tafel plots, f) chronopotentiometry curve of WC@Co(OH)2-2 at −10 and −50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (inset: LSV curves before and after stability testing), g) Nyquist plots, h) Cdl values, and i) TOF values of different electrocatalysts.

value, indicating outstanding charge transfer and faster kinetics during electrochemical performance. The ECSA value of the prepared electrocatalysts was obtained from Cdl values derived from the CV curves (Figure S6, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 4h, the Cdl values of WC, Co(OH)2, WC, WC@Co(OH)2-1, WC@Co(OH)2-2, and WC@Co(OH)2-3 were 3.1, 4.7, 4.9, 6.8, and 4.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. The large Cdl value of WC@Co(OH)2-2 obtained corresponds to the highest ECSA value of 170 cm<sup>2</sup> (Figure S7, Supporting Information), demonstrating that a well-designed structure can significantly enhance the number of active sites and improve electrochemical performance. As shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information), WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited a higher current density than other electrocatalysts after normalization by the ECSA, confirming that the increased activity is not solely attributed to surface area.[\[66,67\]](#page-11-0) TOF is a key metric for assessing the intrinsic activ-

ity of electrocatalysts, as shown in Figure 4i. WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited a higher TOF value of 31.2 s<sup>−</sup>1, which is superior to WC (8.6 s<sup>−</sup>1), Co(OH)2 (10.1 s<sup>−</sup>1), WC@Co(OH)2-1 (16.4 s<sup>−</sup>1), and WC@Co(OH)2-3 (12.6 s<sup>−</sup>1).

The anode substitution process for urea oxidation is considered a viable method to minimize the energy consumption of hydrogen generation. The UOR helps reduce urea pollution in water resources and has a low theoretical voltage of 0.37 V.[\[68\]](#page-11-0) The electrocatalytic activities of the as-prepared electrocatalysts were explored in a three-electrode system with 1 m KOH + 0.33 m urea. **Figure 5**[a](#page-7-0) shows the LSV curve of WC@Co(OH)2-2 electrocatalysts for both the OER and UOR performances. The potential of WC@Co(OH)2-2 was reduced from 1.47 to 1.38 V for UOR, suggesting that WC@Co(OH)2-2 may facilitate energyefficient hydrogen production at a lower potential by substituting UOR for OER. As shown in Figure [5b,](#page-7-0) WC@Co(OH)2-2

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. a) Comparison of OER and UOR LSV curves of WC@Co(OH) $_2$ -2, b) LSV curves of different electrocatalysts, c) UOR potential values of different electrocatalysts at 10 mA cm<sup>2</sup>, d) Tafel slopes, e) Nyquist plots of different electrocatalysts, and f) chronopotentiometry test of WC@Co(OH) $_2$ -2 at 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (inset: LSV curves before and after 5000 CV cycles).

exhibited a lower potential than other prepared electrocatalysts in UOR. Specifically, the potentials at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> were 1.59, 1.52, 1.49, 1.38, and 1.5 V for WC, Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-1, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3, respectively (Figure 5c). These values were compared with those from previous reports (Table \$3, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the Tafel value of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 (113 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), which is lower than that of WC (158 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> (149 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-1 (136 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3 (142 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), indicates that the electrocatalysts significantly accelerate UOR kinetics (Figure 5d). The dynamic charge transfer properties at the electrode-electrolyte interface were also studied using a Nyquist plot for the prepared electrocatalysts in 1 m KOH and 0.33 m urea. The  $R_{ct}$  value of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 (9.4  $\Omega$ ), which is lower than those of WC (26.8  $\Omega$ ), Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> (21.4  $\Omega$ ), WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-1 (14.5  $\Omega$ ), and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3 (19.8  $\Omega$ ), indicates that WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 facilitates efficient electron transfer during the UOR process (Figure 5e). Another critical parameter for the widespread practical implementation of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 is its electrochemical stability toward UOR performance in an alkaline environment. Figure 5f shows the chronopotentiometry test of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 at current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The results showed that the potential of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 increased only slightly after 100 h of stability performance at both current densities. Additionally, the LSV curve of WC@Co(OH)2-2 demonstrated good cycling stability even after 5000 CV cycles (Figure 5f (inset)).

In situ Raman spectroscopy was demonstrated to investigate the real-time transition and structural dynamics of the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 catalyst during OER and UOR processes under LSV tests with a low scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Raman spectra were

acquired to gain a comprehensive understanding of the electrocatalytic mechanism of this reaction. Raman spectra of the fresh catalysts (pristine, dry state) were recorded under consecutively increasing potentials, ranging from 1.20 to 1.60 V (vs RHE) with 0.05 V increments, as shown in Figure 6a and Figure S9 (Supporting Information). For the pristine (dry state) WC@Co(OH)2-2 and WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-3, a notable Raman band at 535 cm<sup>-1</sup> was observed, associated with the Co-O vibration of Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>. [69,70] Notably, the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 catalyst exhibits surface alteration when placed in the electrolyte, even without an electrical potential applied. The Co-O (F<sub>20</sub>) peaks transform into the CoOOH (E<sub>a</sub>) peaks when WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 is immersed in 1 M KOH solution under open circuit potential (OCP) conditions. The band at 535 cm<sup>-1</sup>, related to the Co-O vibration, disappeared, while a new peak at  $\approx$ 690 cm<sup>-1</sup> appeared, related to the Co–O (A<sub>10</sub>) vibration. Additionally, a sharp band at ≈500 cm<sup>-1</sup> is indicative of CoOOH formation, suggesting that the surface is reconstructed from Co(OH), to the oxyhydroxide (Co<sup>3+</sup>) structure.<sup>[71]</sup> The Co—O (A1g) band is observed beginning from the open circuit potential (OCP) and up to an applied potential of 1.35 V. Notably, at a potential of 1.40 V, a broad peak appears in the range of 570–630 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which is associated with the E<sub>a</sub> vibrational mode of Co—OH. This signal indicates the formation of the CoOH phase and the presence of adsorbed OH<sup>-</sup> ions on the surface of the catalyst.<sup>[72]</sup> Further, throughout the potential range of 1.40 to 1.60 V under OER conditions, the Co-OH (Eg) peak was observed along with the dominant CoOOH (E<sub>a</sub>) peak for the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 catalyst. This indicates that CoOOH represents the most thermodynamically stable phase in an alkaline medium for the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 catalyst. Notably, at the increased potential of 1.60 V, only the

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 6. In situ Raman spectra of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrocatalysts a) 1 м КОН, and b) 1 м КОН + 0.33 м Urea.

CoOOH peak is observed, underscoring its role as the primary active site for enhanced OER kinetics, functioning as a fast-active site. Consequently, oxyhydroxide species are expected to serve as the intermediates in the OER process. [73] Notably, these peaks are hardly observed in WC@Co(OH) $_2$ -3 electrocatalysts (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The difference in phase evolution with potential indicates that WC@Co(OH) $_2$ -2 more easily transforms into CoOOH than WC@Co(OH) $_2$ -3, under electrochemical conditions.

During the UOR in a 1 m KOH + 0.33 m urea system, the distinct characteristic peaks typically observed in the spectrum vanish. For the WC@Co(OH)2-2 catalyst, the transition of Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> to CoOOH initiates at a potential of 1.4 V, which aligns closely with the UOR onset potential of 1.37 V (Figure 6b). During the UOR process, the applied potential is increased from 1.2 to 1.6 V versus RHE, resulting in the generation of two strong Raman bands at  $\approx 1004$  and  $\approx 1066$  cm<sup>-1</sup> were observed. A Raman band at 1004 cm<sup>-1</sup>, for the symmetric C-N stretching vibration of urea, is weakened with the increasing amount of Co3+ at high potentials, confirming that the Co<sup>3+</sup> species is the UOR active species. When the potential is increased to 1.30 V, the peak appears at  $\approx 1066 \text{ cm}^{-1}$  to a symmetric extension of  $CO_3^{2-}$ , corresponding to the UOR process producing CO<sub>2</sub>. It is worth mentioning that the Raman peak intensity slightly decreases with increasing voltage, likely due to the generation of air bubbles that scatter the incident laser beam on the electrode surface. In situ Raman spectroscopy results revealed the conversion of Co<sup>3+</sup> within the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrode into higher valence Co species (CoOOH) as the potential increased during UOR. The presence of CoOOH as an active component suggests its involvement in the UOR process. When Co<sup>3+</sup> is formed to drive the UOR, the Raman signal of WC is invisible. The disappearance of WC can be attributed to the increased urea adsorption at high potentials, which passivated the phonon vibrations due to the strong interactions between WC and nucleophilic N or O in urea, further verifying that the WC species is not UOR active.

Evidently, the peak intensity of CoOOH increases with the applied potential (particularly at 1.40 and 1.5 V), suggesting that Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> is involved in the urea decomposition process. Therefore, the reconstruction of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> to WC@CoOOH and

the dynamically stable WC@Co(OH)2-2 catalyst layer is confirmed by the Raman spectra. The two-step reconstruction mechanism for WC@Co(OH), during the electrocatalytic process is as follows: i) the primary Co(OH), in WC@Co(OH), is partly oxidized into CoOOH, resulting in the formation of WC/CoOOH, and ii) the restored WC<sub>1,v</sub>@CoOOH layer is formed when tungsten species sustainably infiltrate into CoOOH, serving as the active species for oxygen evolution. Considering the UOR mechanism, the Raman results revealed that the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 catalyst undergoes surface reconstruction during the UOR process. The influence of oxygen vacancies (V<sub>0</sub>) on the surface of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 is proposed to regulate the adsorption energy of OH<sup>-</sup> at Co sites and act as a significant intermediary for OOH<sup>\*</sup> transfer, thereby catalyzing the OER.[74] The oxygen defects on WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 are more readily filled with OH\*, facilitating the pre-oxidation of Co sites and the reconstruction/deprotonation of intermediates (M-OOH\*). Moreover, oxygen defects/vacancies are anticipated to play a key role in the enhanced OER activity of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2, which is consistent with the XPS analysis.

Inspired by the outstanding OER, HER, and UOR performance, along with their durability, an energy-efficient twoelectrode urea electrolyzer (HER||OER and HER||UOR) was constructed using WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrodes as both cathodes and anodes (Figure 7a). As shown in Figure 7b, WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrodes require 1.77 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER||OER, while for HER||UOR, only 1.55 V is needed to achieve the same current density, which is 0.21 V lower than HER||OER. This indicates that replacing HER with UOR is an effective method for energy-saving hydrogen generation. As shown in Figure 7c, the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 electrode exhibited a Faraday efficiency of ≈92.18% for hydrogen evolution, indicating its high energy conversion efficiency. The practical application of these bifunctional electrocatalysts for energy-efficient hydrogen production was further assessed through a long-term durability test. Figure 7d shows the chronopotentiometry test of WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 in both 1  $\,\mathrm{M}$  KOH and 1  $\,\mathrm{M}$  KOH + 0.33  $\,\mathrm{M}$  urea solutions. The test reveals no significant change in potential after 100 h at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Furthermore, the WC@Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>-2 sample (poststability) was characterized using XPS, XRD, and HRTEM analysis. The XPS survey spectra of WC@Co(OH)2-2 (post-stability)

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) Schematic illustration of the fabrication process for the two-electrode full cells, b) LSV curve of WC@Co(OH)2-2||WC@Co(OH)2-2 for overall water and urea splitting, c) Faradaic efficiency for hydrogen production, and d) chronopotentiometry test of WC@Co(OH)2-2for overall water and urea splitting.

confirmed the presence of Co, O, W, and C elements, with no additional elements observed after the stability process (Figure S10, Supporting Information). Figure S11 (Supporting Information) presents the high-resolution XPS spectra of WC@Co(OH)2- 2 (post-stability), including Co *2p*, O *1s*, W *4f*, and C *1s*. In the Co 2p spectra, the binding energy of WC@Co(OH)2-2 (poststability) shifts toward a lower binding energy, indicating oxidation of the Co species after the stability test (Figure S11a, Supporting Information).[\[75,76\]](#page-11-0) Similarly, the O 1s spectra show an increased W-O bond peak compared to the fresh catalyst, likely formed during the long-term stability process (Figure S11b, Supporting Information).[\[77\]](#page-11-0) The intensity of the W 4f peak significantly decreased after the stability test, indicating the loss of W elements in WC@Co(OH)2-2 (Figure S11c, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the XRD pattern revealed no additional peaks after the chronopotentiometry test of WC@Co(OH)2-2, though the peak intensities were slightly reduced (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Post-HRTEM images (Figure S13, Supporting Information) show that the morphology of WC@Co(OH)2-2 remained unchanged after the stability test. Hydrogen gas generated from the electrolyzer was collected using a drainage method to evaluate the efficiency of the urea electrolyzer.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts were synthesized via a simple hydrothermal process for overall electrocatalytic water splitting and urea oxidation reactions. The XAS result stated that WC@Co(OH)2-2 exhibited higher levels of high-spin (HS) Co3<sup>+</sup> electronic states. The optimized WC@Co(OH)2 electrocatalysts exhibited exceptional electrocatalytic activity for both HER and OER. The electrocatalysts demonstrated UOR activity, requiring only 1.38 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and maintained stable performance for 100 h. Furthermore, the urea electrolyzer required 1.55 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is 0.21 V lower than the water electrolyzer, and excellent stability for 46 h at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The outstanding electrocatalytic performance of WC@Co(OH)2

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

23669608, 2025, 9, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smtd.202501189 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

can be attributed to the regulation of the electronic structure of Co(OH)2, enhanced charge transfer rate, and the exposure of active sites. The in situ Raman analysis demonstrated the rapid formation of restored WC1-x@Co(OH)2, with tungsten species infiltrating CoOOH and forming a restored WC1-x@CoOOH layer. This research offers a cost-effective and versatile approach to producing affordable electrocatalysts for urea electrolyzers.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This research was supported by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE) of the Republic of Korea under the project numbers RS-2022-00155713, P0022396, and RS-2024-00433873. The authors (P.M. and C.L.D.) would like to thank the National Science and Technology Council of Taiwan (NSTC) under contract (113-2112-M-032-012 and 114-2811-M-032-009-MY3). Furthermore, the authors (P.M. and C.L.D.) are thankful to the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Taiwan, for providing the beamtime to perform XAS measurements.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Author Contributions**

R.K.D. performed conceptualization, methodology, analysis, and wrote the original draft. P.M. performed wrote the original draft and collected data. A.M. performed the Methodology, wrote the original draft. C.L.D. performed supervision and validation. T.H.O. performed visualization, wrote, reviewed, and edited the final manuscript.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

Co(OH)2, electrocatalysts, overall water splitting, tungsten carbide, urea oxidation

> Received: June 16, 2025 Revised: June 29, 2025 Published online: July 26, 2025

- [1] K. Wu, C. Wang, X. Lang, J. Cheng, H. Wu, C. Lyu, W.-M. Lau, Z. Liang, X. Zhu, J. Zheng, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *654*, 1040.
- [2] F. Saeed, M. Ahmad, A. Zada, D. Qi, Y. Wang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *59*, 1196.
- [3] R. Jasrotia, A. Verma, J. Ahmed, V. Khanna, M. Fazil, S. M. Alshehri, S. Kumari, P. Kumar, T. Ahmad, A. Kandwal, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *52*, 1228.

- [4] L. Meng, H. Xuan, J. Wang, X. Liang, Y. Li, J. Yang, P. Han, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *51*, 271.
- [5] X. Xiao, L. Yang, W. Sun, Y. Chen, H. Yu, K. Li, B. Jia, L. Zhang, T. Ma, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2105830.
- [6] J. Zhou, L. Yu, Q. Zhou, C. Huang, Y. Zhang, B. Yu, Y. Yu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *288*, 120002.
- [7] X. Lv, S. Wan, T. Mou, X. Han, Y. Zhang, Z. Wang, X. Tao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2205161.
- [8] C.-L. Huang, Y.-G. Lin, C.-L. Chiang, C.-K. Peng, D. S. Raja, C.-T. Hsieh, Y.-A. Chen, S.-Q. Chang, Y.-X. Yeh, S.-Y. Lu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *320*, 122016.
- [9] S. Anantharaj, S. Ede, K. Karthick, S. S. Sankar, K. Sangeetha, P. Karthik, S. Kundu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 744.
- [10] J. Su, Y. Yang, G. Xia, J. Chen, P. Jiang, Q. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14969.
- [11] J. Duan, K. Guo, H. Li, J. Li, Y. Peng, H. Ma, C. Xu, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *615*, 156361.
- [12] S. S. Sankar, K. Karthick, K. Sangeetha, A. Karmakar, R. Madhu, S. Kundu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 11961.
- [13] V. Maheskumar, K. Saravanakumar, J. Govindan, C. M. Park, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *612*, 155737.
- [14] C. J. Moon, V. Maheskumar, A. Min, A. Kumar, S. Lee, R. A. Senthil, M. Ubaidullah, M. Y. Choi, *Small* **2025**, *21*, 2408569.
- [15] N. Nwaji, B. Fikadu, M. Osial, Z. M. Goudarzi, S. Asgaran, L. T. Tufa, J. Lee, M. Giersig, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *86*, 554.
- [16] R. K. Dharman, A. Mariappan, P. Mannu, T. T. T. Nga, C.-L. Dong, T. H. Oh, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 29184.
- [17] N. Nwaji, B. Fikadu, M. Osial, M. Warczak, Z. Moazzami Goudarzi, M. Gniadek, S. Asgaran, J. Lee, M. Giersig, *Small* **2025**, *21*, 2410848.
- [18] Z. Guo, L. Ga, M. Liu, J. Ai, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *480*, 148365.
- [19] S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [20] Y. Song, C. Tang, T. Wang, Y. Liu, X. He, C. Xie, G. Chen, C. Deng, Z. He, J. Huang, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2024**, *670*, 160649.
- [21] M. P. Kumar, N. Kumaresan, R. Mangalaraja, I. Zaporotskova, A. Arulraj, G. Murugadoss, A. Pugazhendhi, *Environ. Res.* **2024**, *252*, 119030.
- [22] A. Mariappan, R. K. Dharman, T. H. Oh, *Ceram. Int.* **2023**, *49*, 29984.
- [23] R. K. Dharman, H. Im, M. K. Kabiraz, J. Kim, K. P. Shejale, S. I. Choi, J. W. Han, S. Y. Kim, *Small Methods* **2024**, *8*, 2301251.
- [24] A. Mariappan, R. K. Dharman, T. H. Oh, S. Prabu, K.-Y. Chiang, *Mater. Chem. Phys.* **2023**, *309*, 128321.
- [25] S.-Q. Deng, M.-J. Pei, Z.-H. Zhao, K. Wang, H. Zheng, S.-R. Zheng, W. Yan, J. Zhang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *676*, 884.
- [26] X. Fan, H. Ding, T. Huang, X. Liu, J. Xiao, M. Xie, G. Xu, L. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2024**, *7*, 11530.
- [27] V. Jayaraman, G. Jang, G.-H. Noh, M. Murmu, D.-H. Kim, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 17663.
- [28] Q. Zhang, W. Xiao, W. H. Guo, Y. X. Yang, J. L. Lei, H. Q. Luo, N. B. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102117.
- [29] C. Gong, L. Zhao, D. Li, X. He, H. Chen, X. Du, D. Wang, W. Fang, X. Zeng, W. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *466*, 143124.
- [30] Y. Jiang, H. Liu, Y. Jiang, Y. Mao, W. Shen, M. Li, R. He, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *324*, 122294.
- [31] H. Xu, C. Wang, G. He, H. Chen, Y. Du, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 14224.
- [32] R. Chen, Y. Tan, Z. Zhang, Z. Lei, W. Wu, N. Cheng, S. Mu, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 9813.
- [33] Y. Zhang, X. Huang, J. Li, J. Bai, C. Zhou, L. Li, J. Wang, M. Long, X. Zhu, B. Zhou, *Environ. Sci. Technol.* **2022**, *56*, 9693.
- [34] J. Chen, B. Ren, H. Cui, C. Wang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1907556.
- [35] B. Wang, Y. Ai, Y. Yao, M. Jiang, L. Yan, S. Xu, W. Sun, *Electrochim. Acta* **2022**, *415*, 140254.
- [36] Z. Feng, H. Meng, Y. Fu, L. Ren, B. Gao, W. Liu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2403270.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[37] Z. Yuan, X. Sun, B. Gao, Z. Fan, P. Yang, Z. Feng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *499*, 156647.
- [38] W. Liu, T. Shi, Z. Feng, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *630*, 888.
- [39] T. Shi, B. Gao, H. Meng, Y. Fu, D. Kong, P. Ren, H. Fu, Z. Feng, *Green Chem.* **2024**, *26*, 4209.
- [40] J. Qi, X. Yang, P.-Y. Pan, T. Huang, X. Yang, C.-C. Wang, W. Liu, *Environ. Sci. Technol.* **2022**, *56*, 5200.
- [41] L. Wang, Z. Xu, C. H. Kuo, J. Peng, F. Hu, L. Li, H. Y. Chen, J. Wang, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202311937.
- [42] Y. Liu, R. Ge, Y. Chen, M. Huang, R. Zhu, W. Li, Y. Liu, L. Feng, R. Che, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *420*, 127598.
- [43] Y. Liu, J. Li, D. Sun, L. Men, B. Sun, X. Li, Q. An, F. Liu, Z. Su, *New J. Chem.* **2022**, *46*, 178.
- [44] Y. Wang, A. Li, C. Cheng, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2101720.
- [45] S. Karmakar, A. B. Garg, M. Sahu, A. Tripathi, G. D. Mukherjee, R. Thapa, D. Behera, *J. Appl. Phys.* **2020**, *7*, 128.
- [46] C. Wang, H. Shang, Y. Wang, H. Xu, J. Li, Y. Du, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 14601.
- [47] X. Zhang, H. Zhong, Q. Zhang, Q. Zhang, C. Wu, J. Yu, Y. Ma, H. An, H. Wang, Y. Zou, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1383.
- [48] J. Meng, Y. Song, Z. Qin, Z. Wang, X. Mu, J. Wang, X. X. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2204026.
- [49] A. N. Naveen, S. Selladurai, *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**, *125*, 404.
- [50] L. Liu, D. Han, L. Shi, Z. Luo, R. Shi, J. Gao, Y. Shi, X. Cao, Z. Chen, *Ceram. Int.* **2022**, *48*, 26575.
- [51] Y.-L. T. Ngo, K. Bhamu, A. Voronova, J. Jana, S. G. Kang, J. S. Chung, W. M. Choi, J. H. Jang, S. H. Hur, B. Seo, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *450*, 137915.
- [52] L. Zhuang, J. Li, K. Wang, Z. Li, M. Zhu, Z. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2201127.
- [53] A. Mariappan, P. Mannu, K. S. Ranjith, T. T. T. Nga, Y. K. Han, C. L. Dong, R. K. Dharman, T. H. Oh, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2310112.
- [54] S. Xin, Y. Tang, B. Jia, Z. Zhang, C. Li, R. Bao, C. Li, J. Yi, J. Wang, T. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2305243.
- [55] T. Zheng, J. He, P. Cai, X. Liu, D. Wu, L. Song, Q. He, Y. Tang, G. Wang, M. Gu, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2021**, *168*, 114515.
- [56] D. Qi, J. Xu, Y. Zhou, H. Zhang, J. Shi, K. He, Y. Yuan, J. Luo, S. Wang, Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem.* **2023**, *135*, 202307355.
- [57] C. He, L. Yang, X. Peng, S. Liu, J. Wang, C. Dong, D. Du, L. Li, L. Bu, X. Huang, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 5861.

- [58] D. Gajdek, P. A. Olsson, S. Blomberg, J. Gustafson, P.-A. Carlsson, D. Haase, E. Lundgren, L. R. Merte, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2022**, *126*, 3411.
- [59] N. Li, R. G. Hadt, D. Hayes, L. X. Chen, D. G. Nocera, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4218.
- [60] B. Singh, P. Mannu, Y. C. Huang, R. Prakash, S. Shen, C. L. Dong, A. Indra, *Angew. Chem.* **2022**, *134*, 202211585.
- [61] Y. Cui, X. Tan, K. Xiao, S. Zhao, N. M. Bedford, Y. Liu, Z. Wang, K.-H. Wu, J. Pan, W. H. Saputera, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, 3560.
- [62] D. Huang, K. Chang, W. Pong, P. Tseng, K. Hung, W. Huang, *Catal. Lett.* **1998**, *53*, 155.
- [63] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Surf. Sci.* **1995**, *343*, 211.
- [64] B. Xiong, W. Zhao, L. Chen, J. Shi, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1902505.
- [65] J. Huang, C. N. Borca, T. Huthwelker, N. S. Yüzbasi, D. Baster, M. El Kazzi, C. W. Schneider, T. J. Schmidt, E. Fabbri, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 3067.
- [66] Z. Feng, E. Wang, S. Huang, J. Liu, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 4426.
- [67] Z. Feng, Y. Fu, Z. Yang, Y. He, C. Feng, B. Gao, P. Zhang, X. An, A. Abudula, G. Guan, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2025**, *678*, 913.
- [68] A. Zhou, W. Cai, Y. Fan, W. Guo, J. Ma, Y. Wang, J. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *494*, 152973.
- [69] C. Jing, T. Yuan, L. Li, J. Li, Z. Qian, J. Zhou, Y. Wang, S. Xi, N. Zhang, H.-J. Lin, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 10276.
- [70] S. Gao, Y. Sun, F. Lei, L. Liang, J. Liu, W. Bi, B. Pan, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 12789.
- [71] Z. Chen, C. X. Kronawitter, Y.-W. Yeh, X. Yang, P. Zhao, N. Yao, B. E. Koel, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 842.
- [72] R. Zhang, L. Pan, B. Guo, Z.-F. Huang, Z. Chen, L. Wang, X. Zhang, Z. Guo, W. Xu, K. P. Loh, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 2271.
- [73] A. Bergmann, E. Martinez-Moreno, D. Teschner, P. Chernev, M. Gliech, J. F. De Araújo, T. Reier, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 8625.
- [74] H. B. Tao, L. Fang, J. Chen, H. B. Yang, J. Gao, J. Miao, S. Chen, B. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 9978.
- [75] A. Meena, P. Thangavel, A. S. Nissimagoudar, A. N. Singh, A. Jana, D. S. Jeong, H. Im, K. S. Kim, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 132623.
- [76] P. Mannu, R. K. Dharman, T. T. T. Nga, A. Mariappan, Y. C. Shao, H. Ishii, Y. C. Huang, A. Kandasami, T. H. Oh, W. C. Chou, *Small* **2025**, *21*, 2403744.
- [77] W. Zhou, X.-J. Wu, X. Cao, X. Huang, C. Tan, J. Tian, H. Liu, J. Wang, H. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 2921.