---
source: Du 等 - 2017 - Hierarchical porous Fe3 O4 Co3 S4 nanosheets as an effi.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.575s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:48:47.576283Z
---

# Journal of Materials Chemistry A

PAPER

View Article Online

View Journal | View Issue

Cite this: J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5,

# Hierarchical porous $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$ nanosheets as an efficient electrocatalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction<sup>†</sup>

Jing Du, ab Ting Zhang, a Jiale Xing and Cailing Xu (1)\*\*a

Transition-metal sulfides have attracted extensive interest as oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalyst alternatives to noble metal based catalysts but generally exhibit limited electrocatalytic activity. We here report hierarchical porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  composite nanosheets for a highly efficient electrocatalytic OER in alkaline electrolytes. The preparation of the composite involves a hydrothermal synthesis and a subsequent sulfurization process. The prepared porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  composite shows strong synergetic coupling effects, facilitating active site exposure, and facile charge transfer. Remarkably,  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets afforded an electrocatalytic OER with a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a low potential of 1.50 V and a small Tafel slope of about 56 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. This indicates that the composite of porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets is promising as an efficient electrocatalyst for the OER that can be used in the fields of fuel cells, metal-air batteries and water splitting for hydrogen production.

Received 8th March 2017 Accepted 10th April 2017

DOI: 10.1039/c7ta02108a

rsc.li/materials-a

## Introduction

The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is of paramount importance in various devices of electrochemical energy conversion and storage including artificial photosynthesis, metal-air batteries and water splitting for hydrogen production.<sup>1-5</sup> The rate of the oxygen evolution reaction is greatly influenced by the sluggish reaction kinetics due to O-H bond breakage and O-O bond formation in multi proton-coupled electron transfer steps. 1,6,7 Therefore, the development of efficient, durable and cost effective electrocatalysts for the OER is critically required. Presently, precious-metal electrocatalysts, such as IrO2 and RuO2, have shown the best performance for the OER, but their cost and scarcity prohibit them from widespread applications. Extensive efforts have been dedicated to exploiting alternative nonprecious metal catalysts that are composed of earthabundant elements for catalyzing the OER. Recently, innumerable materials, including transition metal oxides,8-10 chalcogenides, 11-13 phosphides, 14,15 nitrides, 16-18 and two-dimensional layered double hydroxides,19-21 have been used as catalysts for OER applications.

Transition metal sulfides have been used as catalysts in various applications, such as metal-O2 batteries, hydrogen evolution reactions, hydrodesulfurization, and dye sensitized solar cells.22-25 Among them, cobalt sulfide materials have attracted particular interest as catalysts because of their excellent electrical and optical properties.26,27 Cobalt sulfides include various phases such as CoS<sub>2</sub>, Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>, CoS, Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>, etc.<sup>28-30</sup> The catalytic performance of the Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> phase for the OER has been investigated in alkali aqueous solutions.31,32 However, it affords inferior activity compared with other cobalt based catalysts. It is reported that the activities of cobalt-based catalysts partly rely on the microchemical environment of cobalt sites.<sup>33</sup> The properties of cobalt active centers would be improved by introducing doping ions, substrates, or another functional modification. 33-36 Recent studies also indicate that composite catalysts often exhibit enhanced catalytic activities due to the strong synergetic effects between them.33,37

In addition, the morphology and microstructure of a catalyst material also have a great influence on its electrocatalytic performance.<sup>38</sup> Recently, porous nanostructures have attracted particular interest because of their improved chemical and physical properties compared with their bulk nanoscale counterparts.<sup>38,39</sup> Studies have indicated that the existence of nanopores in materials could not only provide highly accessible channels for electrolyte infiltration, but also increase exposed active sites.<sup>10</sup> Especially, two-dimensional nanostructures with pores have incredible properties due to their unique geometrical configuration, which possess a high aspect ratio, thus facilitating the accessibility of exposed active sites and potentially enhancing the catalytic efficiency.<sup>40</sup> Moreover, these unique nanostructures can also promote the evolution and

<sup>&</sup>quot;State Key Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry, Laboratory of Special Function Materials and Structure Design of the Ministry of Education, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China. E-mail: xucl@lzu.edu.cn; Fax: +86 0931 8912582; Tel: +86 0931 8912589

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>b</sup>Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education), Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, China

 $<sup>\</sup>dagger$  Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: XRD data and SEM images of  $Fe_3O_4$  and  $Co_3S_4$  samples,  $N_2$  adsorption/desorption isotherms, XPS survey, LSV curves, Nyquist plots, and additional CV profiles. See DOI: 10.1039/c7ta02108a

release of gas bubbles from the catalyst surface, and thus reinforce the electrolyte contact with the catalyst.<sup>41</sup>

Considering all these factors, it is desirable to develop cobalt sulfide based composites with the combination of two-dimensional and porous nanostructures. Herein, we report the preparation of a hierarchical porous two-dimensional nanostructure of the  $\rm Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  composite using a facile phase transformation from porous  $\rm FeCo_2O_4$  nanosheets. The as-prepared  $\rm Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheet composite is studied as an electrocatalyst for the OER and shows preferable electrocatalytic performance compared to those of noble metal-based catalysts in basic electrolytes.

# **Experimental section**

#### Material synthesis

Chemical reagents of cobalt nitrate, ferrous sulfate, ammonium fluoride, urea, sublimed sulfur, iridium oxide ( $IrO_2$ ), ethanol (99.9%) and Nafion (5% in a mixture of lower aliphatic alcohols and water) were all purchased from Alfa Aesar.

The preparation of hierarchical porous FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets consists of a two-step route:42 synthesis of precursors through a hydrothermal method and calcination of precursors to form FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets. In a typical synthesis, the precursors were first synthesized by dissolving cobalt nitrate (1 mmol) and ferrous sulfate (0.5 mmol) in 30 mL deionized water. Subsequently, 5 mmol ammonium fluoride and 7.5 mmol urea were added and the resulting solution was vigorously stirred for 1 h. The resultant mixture solution was transferred to a 50 mL Teflon-lined autoclave. The autoclave was placed in an oven at 120 °C for 9 h. After being cooled and depressurized, the obtained suspensions were centrifuged, washed, vacuum-dried, and calcined at 550 °C in air for 200 min to obtain porous FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets. To prepare hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/ Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets, 15 mg of FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and 150 mg of sublimed sulfur were placed at two separate positions in a ceramic crucible with the sublimed sulfur at the upstream side. The samples were heated in a N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere at 450 °C for 1 h.

For comparison, Fe $_3$ O $_4$  and Co $_3$ S $_4$  were also prepared by the same synthetic method. 1.5 mmol ferrous sulfate and cobalt nitrate, respectively, were used in the process for the preparation of Fe $_3$ O $_4$  and Co $_3$ O $_4$ . The other reagents, dosage, and reaction conditions are the same as those for the FeCo $_2$ O $_4$  nanosheets. As for the preparation of Co $_3$ S $_4$ , 15 mg of Co $_3$ O $_4$  and 150 mg of sublimed sulfur were heated in a N $_2$  atmosphere at 450 °C for 1 h.

#### **Material characterization**

The crystal structures of the prepared samples were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD, Rigaku D/max 2400 X-ray generator, Cu K $\alpha$  radiation,  $\lambda=1.5406$  Å) at a scanning rate of 8° min <sup>-1</sup> from 10 to 80°. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were taken on a Hitachi S-4800 microscope (operating voltage, 7 kV). Transmission electron microscope (TEM) and high resolution TEM (HRTEM) images were obtained on a Philips Tecnai F20 operated at 200 kV. X-ray photoelectron

spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed using a PHI-5702 instrument. Nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurements were performed on a BEL-Mini adsorption analyzer. The composition of the sample was measured by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (IRIS ER/S, Thermo Jarrell-Ash Corp).

#### **Electrochemical tests**

Electrochemical measurements were carried out with a computer-controlled CHI 760E electrochemistry workstation at room temperature. A three-electrode system consisting of a working electrode (5.0 mm in diameter), a saturated calomel electrode (SCE), and a graphite rod counter electrode was used. The working electrode was a glassy carbon electrode coated with a thin layer of catalyst, which was prepared by ultrasonically mixing 5.0 mg of the as-prepared catalyst with 30 µL of Nafion solution and 500  $\mu L$  of ethanol solvent for 30 min in order to form a catalyst ink. Then, 20.0 µL of the prepared catalyst ink was loaded onto the surface of a glassy carbon electrode of 5.0 mm diameter using a micropipette. Finally, the ink was allowed to dry overnight under ambient conditions to form a thin catalyst film. To improve the conductivity, the obtained samples were mixed with 30 wt% of carbon powders (Cabot Vulcan XC-72) while fixing the weight of the total catalyst mixture. Catalyst loading is approximately 0.672 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> on the glassy carbon electrode. For comparison, the electrocatalytic performance of the benchmark IrO2 was also investigated under the same conditions. Voltammetry studies were performed in 1.0 M aqueous KOH electrolyte. Linear sweep voltammetry was performed at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. All the polarization curves of the oxygen evolution reaction were iR-corrected. Unless otherwise stated, all potentials were converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) potential in all measurements. In 1.0 M KOH solution, the potential of the SCE was calibrated as +1.067 V with respect to the RHE. Electrochemical impedance spectra were obtained over a frequency range of 100 kHz to 100 mHz at a direct-current bias potential of 1.55 V at room temperature. Chronoamperograms were measured to evaluate the catalyst durability at 1.50 V in 1.0 M KOH solution.

#### Results and discussion

A two-step procedure was used to synthesize hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets. First, hierarchical porous FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets were hydrothermally prepared according to a previously reported method,<sup>42</sup> followed by converting FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets into Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets with a similar morphology by a sulfurization reaction at high temperature (see the Experimental section for details). The composition and crystallinity of the obtained samples were first investigated by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. The XRD pattern of the FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets precursor could be readily indexed to the spinel phase of FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (JCPDS no. 16-3952, *Fd3m* space group) (Fig. 1a).<sup>42</sup> After sulfurization, the diffraction peaks of the obtained sample corresponding to the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> phase (JCPDS no. 75-33) can be distinguished in the XRD

Fig. 1 XRD patterns of the  $FeCo_2O_4$  nanosheets (a) and  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets (b). For comparison, the standard patterns of  $FeCo_2O_4$  (JCPDS no. 16-3952),  $Fe_3O_4$  (JCPDS no. 75-33) and  $Co_3S_4$  (JCPDS no. 42-1448) are also shown.

pattern (Fig. 1b). Noticeably, the diffraction peaks at  $26.6^{\circ}$ ,  $31.3^{\circ}$ ,  $38.1^{\circ}$ ,  $50.3^{\circ}$  and  $55.1^{\circ}$  can be indexed to the  $Co_3S_4$  phase (JCPDS no. 42-1448). This indicates the conversion of the original oxide  $FeCo_2O_4$  into the  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  composite. The formation mechanism of the  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  composite powder from  $FeCo_2O_4$  nanosheets may be described as follows:  $(Fe,Co)(Fe,Co)_2O_4+4S \rightarrow FeFe_2O_4$   $(Fe_3O_4)+CoC_2S_4$   $(Co_3S_4)$ . From the previous report, the sulfidation of iron oxide mainly occurred at larger sulfur contents and higher temperatures. For comparison,  $Fe_3O_4$  and  $Co_3O_4$  samples were also prepared according to the hydrothermal method and thermal treatment (for details see the Experimental section). Subsequently,  $Co_3O_4$  was also converted into the  $Co_3S_4$  phase under the same sulfurization conditions (Fig.  $S1^{\dagger}$ ).

The morphologies and microstructures of the prepared products were further analysed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The assynthesized  $FeCo_2O_4$  sample displays a nanosheet-assembled flower-like morphology (Fig. 2a). The size of the flower is estimated to be about 4–6  $\mu$ m. A large number of irregular

nanosheets with a thickness of about 40-60 nm are evident in Fig. 2b. Closer observations revealed that the nanosheets contained numerous nanopores (Fig. 2b and c). After the sulfurization, the morphology of the hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets is almost unaltered (Fig. 2e-g), compared with the original FeCo2O4 nanosheets. The size, thickness, and nanoporous architectures would be effectively maintained after phase transformation. Fig. 2d depicts the high resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of a FeCo2O4 nanosheet, in which the clear lattice fringes of 0.28 nm correspond to the (220) plane of FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The result is consistent with the XRD data in Fig. 1a. Fig. 2h shows HRTEM images of a Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet, which provides clear lattice fringes. The lattice spacing of 0.54 nm and 0.25 nm can be indexed to the (111) planes of Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> and the (311) planes of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, respectively. As illustrated in Fig. 2i-m, elemental mapping figures as obtained from scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) further confirmed the formation of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet-assembled flower in which all elements were uniformly distributed in the system. In addition, the SEM images of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> product are also shown in Fig. S2.† The as-synthesized Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is composed of nanoparticles with a size of 100-200 nm. And Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> displays a nanorod morphology, whose length is approximately 2 µm and diameters change from 50 to 70 nm. The formation and growth of these prepared catalysts with different microstructures may be explained by the nucleation and crystalline growth. It is reported that the raw materials have important roles in the formation and growth of the microstructures.44 Thus, the different morphologies of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> and the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> composite may be controlled by different metal cations that were used as raw materials. In addition, there are different reactions between different metal cations and urea, NH<sub>4</sub>F precipitates (see the ESI, Fig. S3†). This may also have an effect on the microstructure of the prepared sample.

Fig. 2 (a, b) High resolution SEM images of porous  $FeCo_2O_4$  nanosheets. (c, d) TEM and HRTEM images of porous  $FeCo_2O_4$  nanosheets. (e, f) High resolution SEM images of porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets. (g, h) TEM and HRTEM images of porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets. (i–m) TEM elemental mapping analysis of the  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  product. (i) STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping for (j) iron, (k) cobalt, (l) oxygen, and (m) sulphur.

The specific surface area and the porosity of the obtained hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets were characterized by the nitrogen sorption isotherms. The isotherm indicates a distinct hysteresis loop of typical type-IV shape (Fig. S4†), suggesting the existence of porous structures, in line with SEM and TEM results. The determined Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) specific surface area of the porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet catalyst is calculated as 60.4 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. The large specific surface area and porous structure possibly supply more active sites in the nanosheets, which could be accessible channels for electrolyte infiltration upon the electrocatalytic process. 10,45 Thus, this feature is favorable to the enhancement of the electrocatalytic activity. We also investigated the composition ratio of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> in the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> sample by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) analysis. It was demonstrated that the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets contain about 25 wt% of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed to investigate the element chemical states of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> sample. The full survey scan XPS spectrum indicates the presence of Co, Fe, O, and S elements in the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> product (Fig. S5†), being consistent with TEM elemental mapping results. The spectrum of Co 2p (Fig. 3a) consists of two pairs of spin-orbit doublets arising from 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and 2p<sub>1/2</sub> signals and two shakeup satellites, which indicate the presence of Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>.46 The binding energies of Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Fe 2p<sub>1/2</sub> peaks are 711.1 eV and 724.1 eV (Fig. 3b), respectively. The  $2p_{3/2}$  peak position of Fe corresponds to a mixed oxidation state of +2 and +3, which is in good accord with the reported results.33,47 The O 1s XPS core level spectrum can be deconvoluted into three peaks (Fig. 3c). The peaks at 531.4 and 533.0 eV would relate to oxygen in hydroxyl groups and absorbed water. The peak centered at 529.4 eV is associated with typical metal-oxygen bonds. 48 Fig. 3d shows the XPS of S 2p; the peaks at 162.6 and 161.4 eV correspond to the binding energies of S 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and S 2p<sub>3/2</sub>, respectively, which are assigned to divalent sulfide (S<sup>2-</sup>).48

Fig. 3 XPS spectra of the (a) Co 2p, (b) Fe 2p, (c) O 1s, and (d) S 2p peaks of porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets

Oxides/sulfides containing mixed transition-metal elements are superior oxygen electrocatalysts. This is due to the fact that the variable metal valences provide donor-acceptor chemisorption sites for the reversible adsorption of oxygen and enable electron hopping with the provision of surface redox centers to realize high electrical conductivity.33 Therefore, the prepared Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> composite may exhibit excellent properties as an electrocatalyst. The synthesized samples were deposited on a glass carbon electrode to investigate the OER electrocatalytic activity in an alkaline solution. The catalytic activities of the hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet electrode have been assessed for the OER in 1.0 M KOH by linear sweep voltammetry at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, and compared with those of the stateof-the-art IrO2 electrode. The catalytic activities of FeCo2O4 nanosheets and bare GC electrodes are also measured for comparison. Fig. 4a shows the typical linear sweep voltammograms of the different catalysts with iR-compensation. The GC substrate itself was not electrochemically active and showed a very low OER current. It is interesting to note that the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/  $\text{Co}_3\text{S}_4$  sample exhibited the earliest onset potential ( $\approx 1.46 \text{ V}$ ), which was similar to the value for IrO<sub>2</sub>. In addition, the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/ Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> electrode also displayed a significantly enhanced OER catalytic activity, compared to FeCo2O4, Fe3O4 and Co3S4 catalysts individually (Fig. 4a and S6†), with a low overpotential of 270 mV to deliver a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ . This value is lower than that of recently reported nonprecious metal based electrodes such as NiFe<sub>3</sub>N nanoparticles (280 mV), <sup>16</sup> graphene supported Co-B<sub>i</sub> nanosheets (290 mV), <sup>49</sup> Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (a) Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/rGO (320 mV),33 and sandwich-like CoP/C materials (330 mV).50 It is noted that the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> sample without Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> shows very low OER activity, from which it may be deduced that the excellent OER performance of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> sample is mainly attributed to the Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> phase, and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> species possibly act as a synergist.

The OER kinetics were also evaluated from the corresponding Tafel slopes (Fig. 4b). The Tafel slope of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> is 56 mV per decade, which is smaller than that of FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (60 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and IrO<sub>2</sub> (71 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). The lower Tafel slope of the hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet catalyst indicates its more effective kinetics of the oxygen evolution reaction. This suggests that the enhancement of current densities is more rapid with the increase of overpotentials. The prepared catalysts exhibit similar Tafel slopes for the OER, indicating similar reaction pathways and rate-determining steps for these

Fig. 4 (a) Polarization curves of porous FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets, GC, and IrO2 in 1.0 M KOH at a potential sweep rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (b) Tafel plots of porous FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets and IrO2 derived from the OER voltammograms.

catalysts, which is consistent with reported results for other Fe/Co-based OER catalysts.<sup>33</sup>

To further study the electrode kinetics of the OER process in an electrolyte, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements of both FeCo2O4 and Fe3O4/Co3S4 nanosheets were performed at 1.55 V from 100 kHz to 100 mHz in 1 M KOH solution (Fig. 5a). We used an equivalent circuit to fit the electrochemical impedance of the OER process (inset of Fig. 5a). Here,  $R_s$  is the resistance of the electrolyte,  $R_{ct}$  represents the charge transfer resistance, and C<sub>dl</sub> is the double-layer capacitance. Derived from their EIS spectra (Fig. 5a and S7†), all of the prepared electrodes show a similar solution resistance  $(R_s)$ . The corresponding Nyquist plots also demonstrate that Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets have a much smaller charge transfer resistance in the lower frequency region compared to FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, IrO<sub>2</sub>, Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>, indicating a faster electron transfer and thus better OER electrocatalytic performance. This is likely due to the higher electrical conductivity and the special hierarchical porous nanosheet structure, which are favorable to shuttling charges and a fast diffusion and reaction at the electrolyteelectrode interface.10 Moreover, we calculated the electrical double-layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$  in 1 M KOH electrolyte to estimate the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet catalyst. Derived from the cyclic voltammogram (CVs) measurements with various scan rates (Fig. S8†), the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of 63.2 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> on porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets is higher than that on FeCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (36.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), as shown in Fig. 5b. The higher  $C_{\rm dl}$  value suggests a larger reaction specific surface area in the electrochemical reaction system, which also indicates the enriched active sites and enhanced electrocatalytic activity of the OER.

The high OER electrocatalytic properties of  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets can be partly ascribed to the synergistic effects of  $Fe_3O_4-Co_3S_4$ . The reaction processes for oxygen evolution promoted by cobalt-based catalysts have been proposed by previous reports.<sup>33,51</sup> Based on these results, the possible reaction pathways with the  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  catalyst are proposed (see the ESI, Fig. S9†). Among these processes, the  $O_2$  molecule release step may be a rate-limiting step.<sup>51</sup> Thus, the promotion of Co–O bond breaking is believed to promote the whole reaction. The introduction of Fe oxides would accelerate the breaking of the Co–O bond, which is due to the fact that the

Fig. 5 (a) Nyquist plots of porous  $FeCo_2O_4$ ,  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets. (b) Electrochemical double-layer capacitance measurements. Linear fitting of the capacitive currents (data obtained from the CVs in Fig. S7 in the ESI†) of the catalysts against the scan rate to fit a linear regression.

electron transfer from Fe species to  $\text{Co}_3\text{S}_4$  will lead to a lower oxidation state for cobalt ions.<sup>33</sup> Thus, the catalytic activity of the  $\text{Fe}_3\text{O}_4/\text{Co}_3\text{S}_4$  composite is highly enhanced.

The durability of a catalytic electrode is another important parameter to consider for practical applications. The long-term stability of the sample was then studied by cycling continuously for 1000 cycles on a glassy carbon electrode in 1 M KOH solution. Fig. 6a shows that the polarization curve of the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheet catalyst after 1000 cycles affords a similar curve to the initial cycle, indicating the satisfactory durability of the material during long-term cycling in alkaline electrolytes. As shown in Fig. 6b, at a constant potential of 1.5 V, the OER current density generated by the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> catalyst retained 82% over 24 h of continuous polarization. Interestingly, some fluctuation of the current density was observed (inset of Fig. 6b), which might be ascribed to the accumulation and release of O<sub>2</sub> bubbles on the electrode surface during the long-time stability testing.<sup>52</sup>

Lastly, it deserves to be mentioned that the prepared  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  sample is also active for electrocatalysis of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). In 1.0 M KOH solution,  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets afforded a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an

Fig. 6 (a) OER polarization curves for the porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets before and after 1000 cycles of the accelerated stability test. (b) Chronoamperometric profile of porous  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets at 1.5 V in 1.0 M KOH. The inset enlarges the amperometric curve in about 12 h regions.

Fig. 7 Polarization curve of water electrolysis by using the  $Fe_3O_4/Co_3S_4$  nanosheets as the anode and cathode with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in 1 M KOH. Inset: the enlarged region around the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

overpotential of 0.21 V (Fig. S10†). Furthermore, considering the bifunctional electrocatalytic activities of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets for both the OER and HER, we constructed a twoelectrode electrolyzer system using the Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> as both the anode and cathode. A current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> can be obtained at a cell voltage of 1.65 V, representing a combined overpotential of 420 mV for overall water-splitting in 1 M KOH (Fig. 7), which is close to those of Co-based compounds (CoSe: 1.65 V,53 Co-P films: 1.65 V,54 hollow Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> microtube arrays: 1.63 V)<sup>55</sup> and the commercial Pt/C-IrO<sub>2</sub> couple (Fig. S11†). In a word, depending on the experiments described above, it is reasonably revealed that hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets act as an efficient bifunctional electrocatalyst in strong alkaline electrolytes. The exciting catalytic activity of Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> can be ascribed to several factors. First, the composites have strong synergetic coupling effects between Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and the Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> phase. Second, the two-dimensional nanosheet nanostructure exposes a significantly high proportion of active atoms. Third, the porous nanosheet structure favors shuttling charges and a fast diffusion and reaction at the electrolyte-electrode interface.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, we have demonstrated novel hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> composite nanosheets as a high-efficiency OER electrocatalyst in alkaline solutions, exhibiting a lower overpotential (270 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) compared to IrO<sub>2</sub> (280 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and good durability in 1.0 M KOH. Furthermore, the composite of hierarchical porous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets showed a promising bifunctional OER/HER catalytic ability for overall water splitting due to the strong synergetic coupling effects, the presence of a porous two-dimensional nanostructure, and facile charge transfer. This study indicates great potential to attain noble metal-like electrocatalytic activity for transition metal oxides/ sulfides by synergistic coupling of nonprecious functional materials and controlling the nanostructure.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by grants from the Natural Science Foundation of China (NNSFC no. 21673105, 21503102), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central University (lzujbky-2015-274, lzujbky-2016-K09), the Foundation of Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education) in Nankai University, and the Science and Technology Program of Gansu Province of China (145RJZA176).

# Notes and references

- 1 J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough and Y. Shao-Horn, Science, 2011, 334, 1383.
- 2 F. Y. Cheng, J. Shen, B. Peng, Y. D. Pan, Z. L. Tao and J. Chen, Nat. Chem., 2011, 3, 79.
- 3 M. M. Najafpour, T. Ehrenberg, M. Wiechen and P. Kurz, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2010, 49, 2233.

- 4 N.-T. Suen, S.-F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y.-J. Xu and H. M. Chen, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2017, 46, 337.
- 5 Y. H. Dou, T. Liao, Z. Q. Ma, D. L. Tian, Q. N. Liu, F. Xiao, Z. Q. Sun, J. H. Kim and S. X. Dou, Nano Energy, 2016, 30, 267.
- 6 D. U. Lee, P. Xu, Z. P. Cano, A. G. Kashkooli, M. G. Park and Z. W. Chen, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 7107.
- 7 M.-S. Balogun, W. T. Qiu, H. Yang, W. J. Fan, Y. C. Huang, P. P. Tang, G. R. Li, H. B. Ji and Y. X. Tong, Energy Environ. Sci., 2016, 9, 3411.
- 8 B. Zhao, Y. Zheng, F. Ye, X. Deng, X. M. Xu, M. L. Liu and Z. P. Shao, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2015, 7, 14446.
- 9 J. Du, C. C. Chen, F. Y. Cheng and J. Chen, Inorg. Chem., 2015, 54, 5467.
- 10 X.-F. Lu, L.-F. Gu, J.-W. Wang, J.-X. Wu, P.-Q. Liao and G.-R. Li, Adv. Mater., 2017, 29, 1604437.
- 11 Y. W. Liu, C. Xiao, M. J. Lyu, Y. Lin, W. Z. Cai, P. C. Huang, W. Tong, Y. M. Zou and Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2015, 54, 11231.
- 12 N. Y. Cheng, Q. Liu, A. M. Asiri, W. Xing and X. P. Sun, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 9072.
- 13 B. L. Chen, R. Li, G. P. Ma, X. L. Gou, Y. Q. Zhu and Y. D. Xia, Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 20674.
- 14 M. J. Liu and J. H. Li, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2015, 7, 14446.
- 15 A. Mendoza-Garcia, D. Su and S. H. Sun, Nanoscale, 2016, 8, 3244.
- 16 X. D. Jia, Y. F. Zhao, G. B. Chen, L. Shang, R. Shi, X. F. Kang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L. Z. Wu, C. H. Tung and T. R. Zhang, Adv. Energy Mater., 2016, 6, 1502585.
- 17 Y. Q. Zhang, B. Ouyang, J. Xu, G. H. Jia, S. Chen, R. S. Rawat and H. J. Fan, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55, 8670.
- 18 M. Shalom, D. Ressnig, X. F. Yang, G. Clavel, T. P. Fellinger and M. Antonietti, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2015, 3, 8171.
- 19 H. F. Liang, F. Meng, M. Caban-Acevedo, L. S. Li, A. Forticaux, L. C. Xiu, Z. C. Wang and S. Jin, Nano Lett., 2015, 15, 1421.
- 20 J. F. Ping, Y. X. Wang, Q. P. Lu, B. Chen, J. Z. Chen, Y. Huang, Q. L. Ma, C. L. Tan, J. Yang, X. H. Cao, Z. J. Wang, J. Wu, Y. B. Ying and H. Zhang, Adv. Mater., 2016, 28, 7640.
- 21 A. Sumboja, J. W. Chen, Y. Zong, P. S. Lee and Z. L. Liu, Nanoscale, 2017, 9, 774.
- 22 D. U. Lee, P. Xu, Z. P. Cano, A. G. Kashkooli, M. G. Park and Z. W. Chen, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 7107.
- 23 X. D. Cui, Z. Q. Xie and Y. Wang, Nanoscale, 2016, 8, 11984.
- 24 L. Yang, X. Z. Wang, Y. Liu, Z. F. Yu, J. J. Liang, B. B. Chen, C. Shi, S. Tian, X. Li and J. S. Qiu, Appl. Catal., B, 2017, 200, 211.
- 25 S. J. Pen, L. Li, X. P. Han, W. P. Sun, M. Srinivasan, S. G. Mhaisalkar, F. Y. Cheng, Q. Y. Yan, J. Chen and S. Ramakrishna, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2014, 53, 12594.
- 26 Q. Liu and J. Zhang, CrystEngComm, 2013, 15, 5087.
- 27 P. Sennu, M. Christy, V. Aravindan, Y.-G. Lee, K. S. Nahm and Y.-S. Lee, Chem. Mater., 2015, 27, 5726.
- 28 Y. J. Feng, T. He and N. Alonso-Vante, Chem. Mater., 2008, 20,
- 29 R. Li, Y. Dai, B. B. Chen, J. L. Zou, B. J. Jiang and H. G. Fu, J. Power Sources, 2016, 307, 1.

- 30 H. L. Wang, Y. Y. Liang, Y. G. Li and H. J. Dai, *Angew. Chem.*, *Int. Ed.*, 2011, **50**, 10969.
- 31 W. W. Zhao, C. Zhang, F. Y. Geng, S. F. Zhuo and B. Zhang, *ACS Nano*, 2014, **8**, 10909.
- 32 H. J. Wang, Z. P. Li, G. H. Li, F. Peng and H. Yu, *Catal. Today*, 2015, 245, 74.
- 33 J. Yang, G. X. Zhu, Y. J. Liu, J. X. Xia, Z. Y. Ji, X. P. Shen and S. K. Wu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 2016, **26**, 4712.
- 34 F. Song and X. L. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2014, 136, 16481.
- 35 B. S. Yeo and A. T. Bell, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2011, 133, 5587.
- 36 M. R. Gao, S. A. Liu, J. Jiang, C. H. Cui, W. T. Yao and S. H. Yu, *J. Mater. Chem.*, 2010, **20**, 9355.
- 37 T. Yoon and K. S. Kim, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2016, 26, 7386.
- 38 N. Bao, L. Shen, T. Takata and K. Domen, *Chem. Mater.*, 2007, 20, 110.
- 39 Y. Xu and B. Zhang, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2014, 43, 2439.
- 40 B. Konkena, J. Masa, A. J. R. Botz, I. Sinev, W. Xia, J. Koßmann, R. Drautz, M. Muhler and W. Schuhmann, *ACS Catal.*, 2017, 7, 229.
- 41 Z. Peng, D. S. Jia, A. M. Al-Enizi, A. A. Elzatahry and G. F. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.*, 2015, **5**, 1402031.
- 42 S. G. Mohamed, C.-J. Chen, C. K. Chen, S.-F. Hu and R.-S. Liu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces*, 2014, **6**, 22701.
- 43 Z. You, G. Li, Z. Peng, L. Qin, Y. Zhang and T. Jiang, *J. Min. Metall. Sect. B-Metall.*, 2017, 53, 115.

- 44 L. Z. Pei, Y. Q. Pei, Y. K. Xie, C. G. Fan, D. K. Li and Q. F. Zhang, *J. Mater. Res.*, 2012, 27, 2091.
- 45 Y. Z. Dong, M. J. Liu, Y. Liu, S. W. Wang and J. H. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2015, 3, 19969.
- 46 W. L. Gu, L. Y. Hu, W. Hong, X. F. Jia, J. Li and E. Wang, *Chem. Sci.*, 2016, 7, 4167.
- 47 J. Xu, K. Jang, J. Choi, J. Jin, J. H. Park, H. J. Kim, D. H. Oh, J. R. Ahn and S. U. Son, *Chem. Commun.*, 2012, 48, 6244.
- 48 L. An, L. Huang, P. P. Zhou, J. Yin, H. Y. Liu and P. X. Xi, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 2015, 25, 6814.
- 49 P. Z. Chen, K. Xu, T. P. Zhou, Y. Tong, J. C. Wu, H. Cheng, X. L. Lu, H. Ding, C. Z. Wu and Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2016, 55, 2488.
- 50 Y. J. Bai, H. J. Zhang, Y. Y. Feng, L. Fang and Y. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2016, 4, 9072.
- 51 G. Mattioli, P. Giannozzi, A. A. Bonapasta and L. Guidoni, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, 2013, **135**, 15353.
- 52 M. Kuang, P. Han, Q. H. Wang, J. Li and G. F. Zheng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 2016, **26**, 8555.
- 53 T. T. Liu, Q. Liu, A. M. Asiri, Y. L. Luo and X. P. Sun, *Chem. Commun.*, 2015, 51, 16683.
- 54 N. Jiang, B. You, M. Sheng and Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2015, 54, 6251.
- 55 Y. P. Zhu, T. Y. Ma, M. Jaroniec and S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2017, **56**, 1324.