---
source: Guo 等 - 2025 - Interface Electron Transfer Direction‐Tuned Urea Electrooxidation Over Multi‐Interface Nickel Sulfid.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 20.089s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:52:47.705089Z
---

# Interface Electron Transfer Direction-Tuned Urea Electrooxidation Over Multi-Interface Nickel Sulfide Heterojunctions

Xingyu Guo, Yu Li, Zhengrong Xu, Deng Liu, Aiguo Kong,\* and Rui Liu\*

Hydrogen can be produced by electrolyzing urea aqueous solution under smaller overpotentials, owing to the lower thermodynamic potential of urea oxidation reaction (UOR) at anode than oxygen evolution reaction (OER). The efficient and selective electrocatalysts for UOR are crucial to achieve this. Herein, two NiS-based NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub> heterojunctions with Ni cores embedding in nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>- and NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT) are demonstrated as efficient UOR electrocatalysts. The electrocatalytic UOR performance over heterojunctions is efficiently tuned by altering the electron transfer direction on their interfaces. NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT with interface electrons transferring from Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> to NiS, delivers a 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> UOR current density in 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m urea at 1.37 V, superior to NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT with the electron transfer direction from NiS to NiS2. Experimental and theoretical calculation results reveal that NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Mott-Schottky heterojunctions facilitate the rapid in situ formation of NiOOH active species by removing electrons of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, and also accelerate the adsorption and conversion of urea molecules and key intermediates of \*CON<sub>2</sub> at its interfaces. This work demonstrates an interface electron transfer direction tuning strategy on heterojunctions for harvesting high-performance **UOR** electrocatalysts.

1. Introduction

Hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) has been identified as a promising energy carrier due to its high energy density, lack of emissions, and recyclability.<sup>[1]</sup> As part of efforts toward sustainable development,

X. Guo, Y. Li, Z. Xu, D. Liu, R. Liu

Key Laboratory of Advanced Civil Engineering Materials of Ministry of Education

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Tongji University Shanghai 201804, China E-mail: ruiliu@tongji.edu.cn

A. Kong

School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering East China Normal University

Shanghai 200241, China

E-mail: agkong@chem.ecnu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202408908

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202408908

electrocatalytic water splitting has emerged as a key focus for its efficient production of H2, offering an economical and environmentally friendly solution.[2] Due to the advantage of significantly lower theoretical voltage, electrocatalytic urea oxidation reaction (UOR, 0.37 V) has shown increasing potential to replace oxygen evolution reaction (OER, 1.23 V) in the water electrolysis process.[3] However, the kinetics of UOR with a 6e- transfer process is sluggish, thus the development of high-performance and low-cost electrocatalysts is required. Among lots of UOR electrocatalysts, nickel (Ni)-based materials are believed as one type of the most promising electrocatalysts, owing to better stability in concentrated alkaline media and impressive electrocatalytic UOR activity.[4] Nickel oxyhydroxide (NiOOH) species from surface reconstruction usually contribute to electrocatalytic UOR, but NiOOH is also very active for OER side reactions.[5] It is crucial to obtain high UOR efficiency by inhibiting OER side reaction, especially at high operating potential and large current density.

Non-precious metal catalysts have been widely used for urea electrooxidation due to their noble-metal liked performance and low cost. [6] Recently, a large number of heterointerfaces in- $(NiFeCo)S_v/FeOOH/NiFeCo(OH)_v^{[7]}$   $CoS_v/MoS_v,^{[8]}$  $CoS_{1.097}/Ni_3S_2,^{[9]}$  $MoS_2/Ni_3S_2,^{[10]}$  $NiS_2/MoO_2$ ,<sup>[11]</sup>  $Ni_3S_2/Ni_xP_y$ ,<sup>[12]</sup>  $Ni_2P-Ni_{12}P_5$ ,<sup>[13]</sup>  $NiS/Ni_3S_2$ ,<sup>[14]</sup>  $NiSe_2/FeSe_2$ ,<sup>[15]</sup> and NiS/MoS<sub>2</sub><sup>[16]</sup> have shown the impressive UOR electrocatalytic performance. It is believed that interfacial engineering facilitates self-driven electron transfer across the interfaces accompanying local charge redistribution, and therefore tunes the adsorption-desorption capacities of urea molecules and their intermediates in the interfacial region. Moreover, the formation of Mott-Schottky (M-S) heterojunctions would create a built-in electric field in their interfaces, enhancing electron transport and separation during electrocatalysis. It should be noticed that the interface electron transfer in heterojunctions and its effect on UOR are confirmed and understood, but the electron transfer direction between interfaces on UOR performance is rarely investigated. Different electron transfer directions on interfaces might shift main active locals on UOR between interfaces and

**Figure 1.** Schematic diagram of interface electron transfer direction-tuned urea electrooxidation over NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2.

differentiate activation behavior and performance of urea. To recognize and understand this would be very helpful to design more active UOR interface electrocatalyst.

In nature, urease with Ni metal sites can efficiently decompose urea into NH3 and CO2, hence nickel-based catalysts are the focus of UOR research. Particular attention has been especially focused on nickel sulfide species due to their distinctive *d*-electron configuration, facile synthesis techniques, lower toxicity, good chemical stability, and appropriate UOR activity.[\[17\]](#page-9-0) The varied structures (NiS, NiS2, Ni3S2, Ni7S6, and Ni9S8) provide an adjustable and available material platform to construct heterojunctions with different electron transfer directions but similar element composition.[\[18\]](#page-9-0) In the present work, two NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2 heterojunctions with interface electron transfer directions from N3S2 to NiS or from NiS to NiS2 were successfully prepared (**Figure 1**). Two heterojunctions contained Ni cores and then were embedded in nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (NiS/Ni3S2- and NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT), which enhanced electron conductivity and stability of nickel sulfides in 1 m KOH with 0.5 m urea. The NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 displays a potential of 1.37 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a Tafel slope of 39 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for UOR, among the best UOR electrocatalysts. It has been found that NiS/Ni3S2 with interface electron transfer directions from N3S2 to NiS is more efficient than NiS/NiS2 with a contrary direction. NiS/Ni3S2 Mott–Schottky heterojunctions facilitate the faster in situ formation of NiOOH active species by removing electrons of Ni3S2 and also accelerate more efficient adsorption and conversion of urea molecules and key intermediates of \*CON2 at the interfaces. This work not only provides efficient electrocatalysts for UOR in alkaline media with higher electrolysis selectivity but also delivers new knowledge about the effect of interface electron transfer direction on UOR performance.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

Multiple-interface heterostructures of nickel sulfides were constructed by two-step synthesis procedures as illustrated in **Figure 2**[a.](#page-2-0) The first step is to form nickel cores in NCNT by calcining Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>-coordinated melamine complexes in N2 atmospheres, labeled as Ni@NCNT. The second step is vulcanization by annealing Ni@NCNT with different amounts of sulfur powder, denoted as NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m (m represents milligrams of sulfur). X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of Ni@NCNT (Figure [2b\)](#page-2-0) displays that the diffraction peaks at 44.4°, 51.8°, and 76.3° correspond to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of metallic nickel (JCPDS No. 70–1849), confirming the formation of Ni nanoparticles after pyrolysis process. After vulcanization, the XRD patterns of different NiSx materials are newly observed with the rising addition of sulfur powder. The XRD patterns of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-25 and −50 (Figure [2a\)](#page-2-0) indicate the diffraction peaks at 30.1°, 34.7°, 45.8°, 53.5°, and 73.1° ascribing to (100), (101), (102), (110), and (202) planes of NiS (JCPDS No. 75–0613), while other diffraction peaks at 31.2°, 37.9°, 49.9°, and 55.3° are assigned to the (1–10), (111), (210), and (2–11) planes of Ni3S2 (JCPDS No. 73–0698). Notably, the diffraction intensity of Ni3S2 is stronger for NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50. With further increasing the sulfur amount, in addition to NiS, the NiS2 XRD peaks at 27.1°, 31.5°, 35.2°, 38.7°, 45.0°, 53.3°, 56.0°, 58.4°, and 60.8° (JCPDS No. 89–7142) are initially observed in NiS/NiS2- Ni@NCNT-75 and become clearer in NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100.

Typical multiple-interface heterostructures of NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT were further investigated by transmission electron microscope (TEM) and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM). The TEM image of Ni@NCNT illustrates a nanotube morphology with a diameter of ≈40 nm, in which a ≈30 nm-sized nanoparticle is located at the nozzle of a nanotube (Figure S1a, Supporting Information). A tubular structure with a nanoparticle embedded at the nozzle is also observed for NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-25/50, similar to Ni@NCNT (Figures [2c,d](#page-2-0) and S1b, Supporting Information). A clearer observation from the HRTEM image of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 (Figure [2e\)](#page-2-0) reveals the lattice spacings of 0.176, 0.198, 0.232, and 0.342 nm, respectively corresponding to the (200) facet of metallic nickel, (102) facet of NiS, (111) facet of Ni3S2, and (002) facet of graphitic carbon. The three kinds of interfaces including Ni/Ni3S2 (or NiS), NiS/Ni3S2, and NiS(or Ni3S2)/NCNT could be found in this heterostructure. The high angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and corresponding elemental mapping images of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 further reveal the formation of its multiple-interface structures (Figure [2f,g\)](#page-2-0). C and N are clearly distributed in the walls of nanotubes, while S and Ni are predominantly concentrated over a nanoparticle at the nozzle of a nanotube. In comparison with the solid distribution of Ni element, there is a hollow S distribution, corresponding to the existence of Ni cores. The thickness of NiS/Ni3S2 is estimated to be ≈5 nm according to the contrast degree of the enlarged TEM

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Schematic diagram of the preparation of NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m. b) XRD patterns. c) TEM, d) enlarged TEM, e) HRTEM, f) HAADF-STEM and g) corresponding elemental mapping images of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50.

image and element mapping images (Figure 2d,g). Similarly, TEM and HRTEM images also show the multiple-interface structures of NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-75/100 containing Ni/NiS2 (or NiS), NiS/NiS2 and NiS (or NiS2)/NCNT (Figure S1c,d, Supporting Information).

The surface chemical states of as-prepared heterostructures were studied using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS survey spectra in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) verify the existence of C, N, and Ni in Ni@NCNT. The additional S is presented in NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m, similar to the element mapping results (Figure 2f,g). The deconvoluted C 1s high-resolution XPS spectra of Ni@NCNT and NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m indicate the successful doping of nitrogen atoms into the carbon architectures, as evidenced by the appearance of C-N species at ≈285.6 eV (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-3-0). The N 1s XPS spectra are fitted to three peaks located at ≈398.9, 401.0, and 404.9 eV (Figure [3b\)](#page-3-0), corresponding to pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N species, respectively.[\[19\]](#page-9-0) For S species in NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m, two chemical states of S2<sup>−</sup> and S2 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> could be observed, showing similar high-solution S 2p XPS peaks between 160 and 166 eV (Figure [3c\)](#page-3-0). The peaks located at ≈161.5 eV could be ascribed to S 2p3/2 of S<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> ions, while the peaks at 163.6 eV correspond to the S 2p1/2 XPS signals of S2 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> ions. The XPS signals located at ≈162.5 eV are attributed to the mixed XPS signals of S 2p1/2 for S2<sup>−</sup> and S 2p3/2 for S2 2−, similar to the reported results.[\[20\]](#page-9-0) With the rising sulfur sources, the peaks of S 2p XPS signals for S<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> reveal a slightly positive shift. This is probably attributed to the decreased electron density on S<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> with the rising content of (S2) <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> in NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m.[\[21\]](#page-9-0) The Ni 2p3/2 XPS spectra of Ni@NCNT and NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m could be deconvoluted into four signals (Figure [3d\)](#page-3-0). There is a small Ni(0) peak at ≈852.5 eV among these samples. The weak intensity of Ni(0) signals is resulted from the dual-shell encapsulation of carbon and NiSx, which causes the difficulty from surface XPS test techniques. The XPS Ni 2p3/2 peaks located at ≈854 eV are the signals of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, while the XPS signals with a higher binding energy of ≈856 eV correspond to surface Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> or Ni-S-O species.[\[22\]](#page-9-0) It should be noticed that the peaks of Ni 2p3/2 in NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-25 and -50 indicate a gradually positive shift compared with Ni@NCNT. In contrast, the peaks in NiS/NiS2-Ni/NCNT-75 and -100 shift back, and only display a slight positive shift compared to Ni/NCNT. This is probably related to the enhanced regulatory effect of Mott–Schottky heterojunction on interfacial electrons in NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-25/50, more efficient than NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-75/100.[\[16\]](#page-9-0)

The electrocatalytic UOR performance is first observed by linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves in 1 m KOH

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 3. High-resolution XPS spectra of Ni/NCNT and NiS<sub>v</sub>-Ni@NCNT-m: a) C 1s, b) N 1s, c) S 2p, and d) Ni 2p.

and 0.5 m urea in the electrolyte. As shown in Figure 4a. NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 indicates the lowest UOR potential (1.37 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and onset potential (1.32 V) among different samples. In contrast to OER LSV curves in 1 м KOH without urea (Figure S3, Supporting Information), the UOR current densities are much higher than the corresponding OER values, suggesting preferred electrocatalytic UOR performance on NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 electrocatalyst. The potential values of these samples at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> are NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>- $Ni@NCNT-50 (1.37 V) < NiS/Ni_3S_2-Ni@NCNT-25 (1.42 V) <$  $NiS/NiS_2-Ni@NCNT-75$  (1.44 V) <  $NiS/NiS_2-Ni@NCNT-100$ (1.45 V) < Ni@NCNT (1.49 V). The onset-potentials reveal the same change trend. It concludes that the multiple-interface heterostructures demonstrate higher electrocatalytic performance than Ni@NCNT without NiS<sub>v</sub>. It is interesting that heterostructures with NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> testified much higher current density than those with NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub> during UOR.

Moreover, the UOR current densities for NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 and -25 exhibit a potential-current linear relationship. In contrast, Ni@NCNT and NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT display current passivation at a high potential (>1.50 V, purplecolor zone in Figure 4a), which might be attributed to the OER side effect during the UOR process. The UOR kinetics were assessed through a series of characterizations (Figures 4b-d and S4, Supporting Information). NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 exhibits a Tafel slope of 39 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, significantly lower than NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-25 (49 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-75 (56 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-100 (107 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and Ni@NCNT

(111 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 4b), well agreeing with their polarization curve results. The double-layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) of NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 (5.0 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) based on the cyclic voltammetry (CV) (Figure S4, Supporting Information) is significantly larger than those of NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-25 (3.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-75 (2.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-100 (2.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Ni@NCNT (1.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 4c). The chargetransfer resistance of NiS/Ni $_3$ S $_2$ -Ni@NCNT-50 is the smallest among the prepared samples (Figure 4d), indicating its fastest charge-transfer kinetics. Figure 4e summarizes the overall performance of prepared catalysts and illustrates the optimal electrocatalytic UOR performance of NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50, superior to the other reported Ni-based catalysts (Figure 4f and Table S1, Supporting Information).

The UOR stability of NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 was evaluated by chronoamperometry. The i-t and LSV curves before and after 20 and 50 h stability tests indicate that the catalytic current density toward UOR is well-maintained (Figure 4g and Figure S5a, Supporting Information). After the durability test, the collected NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 sample reveals a small positive drift at the potential of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The structures of NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 were also observed after 20 and 50h durability tests. NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 retains a similar tubular structure, and the elemental compositions are almost identical with pristine material (Figure S5d-i,S6a,b, Supporting Information). The XRD and Ni 2p XPS spectra (Figure S5b,c) show no changes for NiS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ni@NCNT-50 after 20 h stability test. The decreased relative XRD intensity might result from the slight etching of NiS, in alkaline electrolytes (Figure S6c, Supporting

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) UOR LSV curves, b) Tafel slopes, c) calculated Cdl values, d) Nyquist plots at the potential of 1.40 V *vs*. RHE, e) comprehensive performance comparison of Ni@NCNT and NiSx-Ni@NCNT-m. f) UOR performance comparison with reported Ni-based catalysts. g) UOR chronopotentiometric curve of 50 h on NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 (Inset: LSV curves before and after 50 h stability test). FEs for different UOR/OER products under different potentials on h) NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and i) NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100.

Information), similar to the reported literature.[\[23\]](#page-9-0) This can be verified by ICP analysis of the electrolyte, which indicates 0.0005, 0.0010, 0.0013, 0.0016, and 0.0018 mm Ni2<sup>+</sup> after 1, 5, 15, 30, and 50 h of stability testing, respectively. These results exhibit the durability of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 during long-time continuous UOR in alkaline media.

The potential dependent Faradic efficiency (FE) during the catalytic process was computed based on the products N2, O2 and NO2 <sup>−</sup>, which was confirmed via gas chromatography (GC) or ion chromatography (IC) (Figure 4h,i). The corresponding calibration curves are shown in Figure S7 (Supporting Information). For NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50, the FE for N-containing products (mainly N2 and NO2 <sup>−</sup>) from UOR remains ≈90% at all potentials with few OER products (O2) (Figure 4h). NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 was typically used as the contrast sample. It could be observed that the FEN-products evidently diminish over NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 with increased potential, while FEO2 significantly increases (Figure 4i). It indicates a better UOR selectivity of NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT-50, superior to NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 at higher potentials. The OER side reaction at higher potentials could be inhibited over NiS/Ni3S2 heterostructures. The amounts of hydrogen produced during UOR under different potentials are shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information). NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 delivers 501.3 μmol at 1.6 V, significantly higher than that of NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 (279.7 μmol), indicating its better catalytic activity.

The heterostructural catalysts Ni/NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/Ni3S2 were also prepared to investigate the role of multi-interfaces (the detailed prepared process is provided in SI). As shown in Figure S9a (Supporting Information), the XRD patterns of Ni/NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/Ni3S2 confirm the same NiS and Ni3S2 phases as NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50. The UOR performance of Ni/NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/Ni3S2 is shown in Figure S9b (Supporting Information). It is evident that Ni/NiS/Ni3S2 and

NiS/Ni3S2 indicate identical onset potential (1.36 V), which is close to NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 (1.32 V). This suggests that Ni/NiS/Ni3S2, NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 possess the same source of UOR activity, NiS/Ni3S2. Compared to Ni/NiS/Ni3S2, NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 presents a significantly higher current density at 1.5 V, which implies a lower resistance of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50. The LSV curves of Ni/NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/Ni3S2 display identical current density before 1.45 V, while indicating distinct separation after 1.5 V. This illustrates that the existence of Ni is mainly to maintain a linear increase in current density, which is conducive to high current catalysis. Nyquist plots further confirm that NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 possesses lower resistance and a faster electron transfer rate (Figure S9c, Supporting Information). This indicates that the main role of NCNT in NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 is to facilitate electron transport.

The active species and performance differences for NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT-50 and NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 with different heterojunctions were investigated. The local structure changes of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 during UOR practical catalysis were first observed. In situ electrochemistry Raman spectra at 1.45 V were carried out to observe the dynamic state transition of Ni sites during the UOR process. For NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 (Figure S10a, Supporting Information), surface NiOOH species begin to appear after 90 s in 1 m KOH electrolyte and stabilize after 150 s. However, this NiOOH peak rapidly disappears after injecting urea solution at 120 s (Figure S10b, Supporting Information), owing to the reduction of NiOOH with the spontaneous reaction between NiOOH and urea.[\[4b\]](#page-9-0) This also confirms that the in situ formed surface NiOOH species are the main active sites for UOR at 1.45 V.[\[4a\]](#page-9-0) On the other hand, whereas 0.5 m urea and 1 m KOH are used as the initial electrolyte, the peak belonging to C-N shows the greatest intensity, suggesting efficient adsorption of urea on NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50. Raman signals for adsorbed urea molecules gradually decrease with the UOR reaction, and reach a dynamic equilibrium of urea adsorption and oxidation reaction after 120 s (Figure S10c, Supporting Information). The case of NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100, demonstrates a similar change to NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-50 in 1 m KOH electrolyte or injected urea solution (Figure S10d,e, Supporting Information). However, the C-N peak ascribing to urea adsorption in 1 m KOH with 0.5 m urea electrolyte is significantly weaker than that of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 (Figure S10f, Supporting Information). The weaker urea adsorption capacity of NiS/NiS2 interface structure could contribute to its lower electrocatalytic UOR performance than NiS/Ni3S2 interface structures.[\[5b\]](#page-9-0)

In situ Raman spectra at varied potentials were further tested. The strong NiOOH signals in NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 are clearly observed at 1.45 V in 1 m KOH, while only a weak signal at 1.50 V for NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 (**Figure 5**[a,c\)](#page-6-0). More NiOOH active species could be generated on the NiS/Ni3S2 interface structure at the same potential, and this is responsible for its higher UOR performance. In 0.5 m urea and 0.1 m KOH electrolyte (Figure [5b\)](#page-6-0), the C-N Raman peaks of urea over NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 could be observed *<*1.15 V and have a strong existence from 1.35 to 1.6 V. For comparison in NiS/NiS2- Ni@NCNT-100, the Raman C-N peak of urea gradually weakens and disappears when the potential reaches *>*1.30 V (Figure [5d\)](#page-6-0). This information indicates an advantageous OER side effect over NiS/NiS2 interface structure at *>*1.30 V, while UOR is more competitive than OER over NiS/Ni3S2 interface structure. This obvious discrepancy during UOR between NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 is consistent with the result of Faraday efficiency.

It should be noted that there are no clear formation signals of surface NiOOH species at ≈*<*1.35 V in in situ Raman spectra (Figure [5a–d\)](#page-6-0). The oxidation peak of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 in 1 m KOH also reveals the formation of Ni(III)OOH species only at ≈*>* 1.35 V, and for NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 at ≈*>* 1.4 V (Figure S3, Supporting Information). However, the weak UOR performance at *<*1.35 V could be observed in the corresponding UOR LSV curves of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50, and for NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 at ≈*<* 1.4 V (Figure [4a\)](#page-4-0). The electrocatalytic UOR performance of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 is still better than NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 at lower potentials of *<* 1.4 V. It can be inferred that NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and NiS/NiS2- Ni@NCNT-100 might directly pole as active species before the appearance of NiOOH at lower electrolysis potentials. At higher electrolysis potentials of *>*1.4 V, the in situ formed surface NiOOH species becomes the main active species for UOR and the parent nickel sulfide heterojunctions still contribute to the urea adsorption and continuous formation of surface NiOOH species.

The different content of in situ formed NiOOH species and urea adsortpion performance of NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2 interface structures might originate from their different electrontransferring ability with different directions. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) of two heterostructures at different potentials was conducted in 1m KOH and 0.5 m urea solution. The Bode plots of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and NiS/NiS2- Ni@NCNT-100 during UOR are shown in Figure [5e,f.](#page-6-0) The Bode plots of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 indicate only a single peak located at low-frequency range. Its phase angle reveals a faster decrease than NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 from 1.35 to 1.6 V, which implies its fast charge transfer during UOR.[\[24\]](#page-9-0) The fast electron transferring capacities might be related to their different heterostructures. The work functions of NiS, NiS2, and metallic Ni3S2 are calculated to be 6.07, 6.14, and 5.31 eV, respectively (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Compared to semiconducting NiS, the work function of metallic Ni3S2 is obviously smaller, meeting the condition for the formation of the Schottky barrier.[\[25\]](#page-9-0) The direction of charge transfer during the formation of a Mott–Schottky contact is determined by the work functions of both metallic and semiconducting components. Consequently, electrons will automatically move from Ni3S2 to NiS under the Fermi level equilibrium when two phases are contacted (Figure [5g\)](#page-6-0).[\[26\]](#page-9-0) Such an electron movement not only induces charge redistribution at the interface but also creates a build-in electric field, which is beneficial for electron transfer.[\[27\]](#page-9-0) Conversely, the small Fermi level gap between NiS and NiS2 contributes to a slight Fermi level equilibrium (Figure [5h\)](#page-6-0), which results in a direction switch from NiS to NiS2 with a relatively slow electron transfer.

The charge density images of NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2 interfaces (**Figure 6**[a,b\)](#page-7-0) further display the effect of different electron transfer behaviors. NiS/Ni3S2 exhibits a more pronounced region of electron aggregation and depletion in comparison to NiS/NiS2,

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** In situ Raman spectra of UOR in 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH +0.5 m urea catalyzed by a,b) NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and c,d) NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100. Bode plots of e) NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and f) NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 at different applied potentials for UOR. Energy band diagram after contact: g) NiS and Ni3S2, h) NiS and NiS2.

indicating a stronger self-built electric field in NiS/Ni3S2. [\[28\]](#page-9-0) This could be attributed to the formation of Mott–Schottky heterojunction of NiS/Ni3S2 with a larger work function difference than NiS/NiS2. Under the regulation effect of Mott–Schottky heterojunction on local charge at heterogeneous interfaces, the electron depletion in Ni of Ni3S2 is conducive to the adsorption of nucleophile urea molecules and the formation of NiOOH active sites.[\[29\]](#page-9-0) Conversely, the weak Fermi level equilibrium between the two phases leads to poor electron transfer due to the close work function of NiS and NiS2, and the weaker electron-deficient state in Ni of NiS contributes to the poor urea adsorption and tardy formation of NiOOH. This agrees well with the conclusions from in situ Raman observation and other experiment results.

To understand UOR activity difference over different nickel sulfides at lower potentials and the conversion and adsorption of urea at higher potentials, NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2 models were established (Figure [6a,b\)](#page-7-0). The main reaction route of UOR on them can be summarized in Figure [6c.](#page-7-0) The calculated free energy of the six-electron reaction pathway of urea on two heterostructures reveals the superiority of the Mott–Schottky heterojunction of NiS/Ni3S2 at U = 0 V and U = 1.55 V. As illustrated in Figure [6d,e,](#page-7-0) NiS/Ni3S2 exhibits a lower adsorption free energy for urea than NiS/NiS2 at both conditions. Notably, the free energy of \*CO(NH2)2 to \*CON2 (i → ii) over NiS/Ni3S2 (ΔE = 1.37 eV at U = 0 V and ΔE = −0.35 eV at U = 1.55 V) is substantially lower than NiS/NiS2 (ΔE = 2.49 eV at U = 0 V and ΔE = 0.66 eV at U = 1.55 V). In this process, the self-built electric field might be used to stabilize the carbonyl group through diminishing electron density of Ni3S2, which reduces the energy barriers for breaking N-H bonds. In fact, as discussed

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Charge density of a) NiS/Ni3S2 and b) NiS/NiS2, where green and blue represent the electron-accumulation and electron-depletion regions, respectively. c) Reaction pathway of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 for UOR. Calculated Gibbs free energy profiles of NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2 for UOR at d) 0 V and e) 1.55 V *vs*. RHE. Mechanism diagram of UOR/OER competition on f) NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 and g) NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100.

in Figure [5g,](#page-6-0) the Mott–Schottky heterojunction of NiS/Ni3S2 facilitates the electron transfer from Ni3S2 to NiS by causing band bending and electron redistribution at the interface. This establishes a continuous electron transmission path between Ni3S2 and NiS, which increases the density of active sites as well as reduces the energy barrier for deprotonation.

Based on the experiment and theoretical calculation results above, the UOR selectivity of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 (≈90%) higher than NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100 (≈70–80%) is also understood at higher potentials of *>*1.5 V. When the applied potential is *<* 1.50 V, the formation of surface NiOOH species is relatively slow over two heterojunctions. The preferentially adsorbed urea molecules for both two interface structures are sufficient to react with NiOOH, which limits OER side reaction. But the potentials of *>*1.50 V induce the fast formation of surface NiOOH species. Owing to the better urea adsorption performance of NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT-50, urea molecules are still sufficiently supplied to surface NiOOH species (Figure 6f). As evidenced by the calculated Gibbs free energy for UOR and OER (Figures 6d,e and S12, Supporting Information), it exhibits a significantly lower adsorption free energy for urea compared to that for OH<sup>−</sup>. However, for NiS/NiS2-Ni@NCNT-100, the lower urea adsorption results in insufficient supply to surface NiOOH, and the OER side reaction in relation to O2 evolution remarkably occurs (Figure 6g).

Given the impressive UOR performance of NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT-50, an overall urea-assisted water splitting system (OUS) was constructed using a 1 m KOH/0.5 m urea solution with NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 as the anode and 5% Pt/C as cathode (**Figure 7**[a\)](#page-8-0). For comparison, an overall water splitting (OWS) system of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C was also set up in 1 m KOH solution. As shown in Figure [7b,](#page-8-0) the NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C electrolyzer for OWS requires a voltage of 1.70 V to reach the current densities of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. While in the case of urea-assisted water splitting, where the anodic reaction is replaced by UOR, the system can achieve the same current density with a voltage of only 1.39 V. This substitution demonstrates that using UOR instead of the traditional anodic OER process can reach the desired current density at a much lower voltage, leading to a substantial reduction in energy consumption for hydrogen production. In addition, the OUS of Pt/C‖Pt/C system requires a voltage of 1.62 V to attain 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is much higher than the NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C electrolyzer (1.39 V). EIS in the OUS process indicates that the charge-transfer resistance of NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C is much smaller than

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) Schematic diagram of urea-assisted water electrolysis device. b) Polarization curves of different electrolyzers for overall water splitting and urea-assisted water splitting without iR-compensation. c) The comparison of the urea-assisted water splitting activity for NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C with other reported similar electrolyzers. d) Chronopotentiometric curve of the NiS/Ni3S2-Ni/NCNT-50‖Pt/C electrolyzer at a voltage of 1.39 V for 50 h (Inset: LSV curves before and after 50 h stability test).

that of Pt/C‖Pt/C (Figure S13a, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the cell voltage based on the NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C electrolyzer for OUS also surpasses other reported electrolyzers at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 7c and Table S2, Supporting Information). The stability of NiS/Ni3S2- Ni@NCNT-50‖Pt/C electrolyzer was tested at a constant voltage. It shows that the current density maintains well after the 20 h OUS stability test (Figure S13b, Supporting Information) and the catalyst only indicates a slight inactivation after the 50 h test (Figure 7d). Faraday efficiency based on hydrogen reaches 91.3%, indicating good water splitting performance.[\[30\]](#page-9-0)

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, two NiS-based NiS/Ni3S2 and NiS/NiS2 heterojunctions with Ni cores trapping in nitrogen carbon nanotube were prepared. Only 1.37 V is required on NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50 to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for UOR in 1 m KOH with 0.5 m urea, with high Faraday efficiency of *>* 90% for UOR at higher potential. Profiting from more efficient electron transferring ability and favorable direction from Ni3S2 to NiS, the in situ formation of NiOOH active species at lower potentials and the selective adsorption and activation of nucleophilic urea molecules could be achieved over NiS/Ni3S2-Ni@NCNT-50. The modulating effect on interfacial electrons of NiS/Ni3S2 Mott–Schottky heterojunction is superior to that of NiS/NiS2 with interface electron transfer from NiS to NiS2. This work not only provides a strategy to tune the interface electron transfer direction on heterojunctions for developing high-efficiency UOR electrocatalysts but also introduces a thorough comprehension of advantageous UOR over OER on different nickel sulfide heterostructures.

# **4. Experimental Section**

Experimental details can be found in Supporting Information.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. 22120230104).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# <span id="page-9-0"></span>**Keywords**

electrocatalysts, heterogeneous interfaces, Mott–Schottky heterojunction, OER side reaction, urea oxidation reaction

> Received: September 29, 2024 Revised: November 24, 2024 Published online: December 5, 2024

- [1] K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang, H. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3783.
- [2] L. L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G. D. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen, X. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14023.
- [3] a) R. Q. Li, Q. Liu, Y. Zhou, M. Lu, J. Hou, K. Qu, Y. Zhu, O. Fontaine, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 4159; b) Y. Song, Z. Ji, S. Zhao, T. Wang, J. Liu, W. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 10417; c) L. Sha, K. Ye, J. Yin, K. Zhu, K. Cheng, J. Yan, G. Wang, D. Cao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *381*, 122603; d) Z. Zhao, J. Zhao, H. Wang, X. Li, L. Yang, Z. Zhao, X. Liu, Y. Liu, P. Liu, Z. Cai, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2020**, *45*, 14199; e) K. Zhang, C. Liu, N. Graham, G. Zhang, W. Yu, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *87*, 106217; f) P. Wang, X. Bai, H. Jin, X. Gao, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2300687; g) X. Zheng, J. Yang, P. Li, Z. Jiang, P. Zhu, Q. Wang, J. Wu, E. Zhang, W. Sun, S. Dou, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202217449; h) L. Wang, S. Zhu, Y. Wang, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Q. Wang, M. Gu, K. Li, X. Sun, L. Yang, M. Shao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *460*, 141826.
- [4] a) W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7297; b) R. Lin, L. Kang, T. Zhao, J. Feng, V. Celorrio, G. Zhang, G. Cibin, A. Kucernak, D. J. L. Brett, F. Corà, I. P. Parkin, G. He, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 2386; c) V. M. Zemtsova, A. G. Oshchepkov, E. R. Savinova, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 13466.
- [5] a) P. W. Menezes, S. Yao, R. Beltrán-Suito, J. N. Hausmann, P. V. Menezes, M. Driess, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 4640; b) X. Gao, X. Bai, P. Wang, Y. Jiao, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 5842.
- [6] a) S. Xu, X. Ruan, M. Ganesan, J. Wu, S. K. Ravi, X. Cui, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2313309; b) Y. Song, J. Huang, C. Tang, T. Wang, Y. Liu, X. He, C. Xie, G. Chen, C. Deng, Z. He, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2403612.
- [7] T. X. Nguyen, Z. Y. Wei, T. M. Zheng, Y. H. Su, K. S. Chuang, J. M. Ting, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *496*, 153841.
- [8] T. L. Luyen Doan, D. C. Nguyen, K. Kang, A. Ponnusamy, H. I. Eya, N. Y. Dzade, C. S. Kim, C. H. Park, *Appl. Catal., B: Environ.* **2024**, *342*, 123295.
- [9] M. Du, Y. Ji, Y. Li, S. Liu, J. Yan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 202402776.

- [10] Y. Ren, C. Wang, W. Duan, L. Zhou, X. Pang, D. Wang, Y. Zhen, C. Yang, Z. Gao, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *628*, 446.
- [11] S. Ligani Fereja, P. Li, Z. Zhang, J. Guo, Z. Fang, Z. Li, S. He, W. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *432*, 134274.
- [12] X. Luo, P. Ji, P. Wang, R. Cheng, D. Chen, C. Lin, J. Zhang, J. He, Z. Shi, N. Li, S. Xiao, S. Mu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903891.
- [13] J. Luo, L. Tang, J. Song, J. Zhou, S. Liu, T. Chang, Y. Fang, *Mol. Catal.* **2024**, *564*, 114276.
- [14] Q. Zhao, C. Meng, D. Kong, Y. Wang, H. Hu, X. Chen, Y. Han, X. Chen, Y. Zhou, M. Lin, M. Wu, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 15582.
- [15] S. Ni, H. Qu, Z. Xu, X. Zhu, H. Xing, L. Wang, J. Yu, H. Liu, C. Chen, L. Yang, *Appl. Catal., B: Environ.* **2021**, *299*, 120638.
- [16] C. Gu, G. Zhou, J. Yang, H. Pang, M. Zhang, Q. Zhao, X. Gu, S. Tian, J. Zhang, L. Xu, Y. Tang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *443*, 136321.
- [17] a) M. Yang, C. Ding, Y. Liu, Q. Bai, *Colloids Surf. Physicochem. Eng. Aspects* **2021**, *618*, 126425; b) H. Xu, Y. Liao, Z. Gao, Y. Qing, Y. Wu, L. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 3418.
- [18] a) M. Liu, Y. Jiao, S. Zhan, H. Wang, *Catal. Today* **2020**, *355*, 596; b) M. G. S. da Silva, C. M. Leite, M. A. L. Cordeiro, V. R. Mastelaro, E. R. Leite, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 9498.
- [19] a) H. Hu, Q. Zhang, F. Luo, L. Guo, K. Qu, Z. Yang, S. Xiao, Z. Xu, W. Cai, H. Cheng, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 1413; b) H. Hu, F. M. D. Kazim, Q. Zhang, K. Qu, Z. Yang, W. Cai, *ChemCatChem* **2019**, *11*, 4327.
- [20] a) W. Xu, R. Zhao, Q. Li, B. Sun, J. Wu, W. Zhong, Y. Gao, X. Nan, Q. Huang, Y. Yang, X. Li, N. Yang, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300978; b) X. Zhuo, W. Jiang, G. Qian, J. Chen, T. Yu, L. Luo, L. Lu, Y. Chen, S. Yin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 35709.
- [21] a) H. Liu, Z. Liu, F. Wang, L. Feng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *397*, 125507; b) S. Harish, P. Bharathi, P. Prasad, R. Ramesh, S. Ponnusamy, M. Shimomura, J. Archana, M. Navaneethan, *RSC Adv.* **2021**, *11*, 19283.
- [22] a) Y. Ding, J. Chen, X. Lian, Z. Tian, X. Geng, Y. Wang, Y. Liu, W. Wang, M. Wang, Y. Xiao, T. Jin, M. Sun, Z. Yang, K. H. L. Zhang, J. Q. Zhong, W. Chen, *Appl. Catal., B: Environ.* **2024**, *343*, 123508; b) W. Yang, X. Yang, C. Hou, B. Li, H. Gao, J. Lin, X. Luo, *Appl. Catal., B: Environ.* **2019**, *259*, 118020.
- [23] M. Wang, C. Dong, Y. Huang, S. Shen, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 1855.
- [24] M. Zhong, M. Xu, S. Ren, W. Li, C. Wang, M. Gao, X. Lu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 1984.
- [25] N. Jiang, Q. Tang, M. Sheng, B. You, D. E. Jiang, Y. Sun, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2016**, *6*, 1077.
- [26] D. Xu, S. N. Zhang, J. S. Chen, X. H. Li, *Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *123*, 1.
- [27] H. Zheng, M. Pei, R. Qiu, D. Ma, S. Deng, X. Jiao, K. Wang, Y. Zuo, W. Yan, Y. Liu, J. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *476*, 146801.
- [28] J. Cheng, Z. Niu, Z. Zhao, X. Pei, S. Zhang, H. Wang, D. Li, Z. Guo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *13*, 2203248.
- [29] L. Zhang, J. Wang, K. Jiang, Z. Xiao, Y. Gao, S. Lin, B. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202214794.
- [30] Y. Feng, L. Huang, Z. Xiao, X. Zhuang, T. S. Aslam, X. Zhang, Y. Tan, Y. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 7771.