---
source: Huang 等 - 2022 - Construction of Fe‐doped NiS–NiS2 Heterostructured Microspheres Via Etching Prussian Blue.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 85.560s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:54:13.268179Z
---

# **Construction of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 Heterostructured Microspheres Via Etching Prussian Blue Analogues for Efficient Water-Urea Splitting**

*Shoushuang Huang,\* Qian Zhang, Peijun Xin, Jie Zhang, Qiaochuan Chen,\* Jie Fu, Zhiqiang Jin, Qing Wang, and Zhangjun Hu\**

**Developing efficient and robust non-precious-metal-based catalysts to accelerate electrocatalytic reaction kinetics is crucial for electrochemical water-urea splitting. Herein, Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured microspheres, an electrocatalyst, are synthesized via etching Prussian blue analogues following a controlled annealing treatment. The resulting microspheres are constructed by mesoporous nanoplates, granting the virtues of large surface areas, high structural void porosity, and accessible inner surface. These advantages not only provide more redox reaction centers but also strengthen structural robustness and effectively facilitate the mass diffusion and charge transport. Density functional theory simulations validate that the Fe-doping improves the conductivity of nickel sulfides, whereas the NiS–NiS2 heterojunctions induce interface charge rearrangement for optimizing the adsorption free energy of intermediates, resulting in a low overpotential and high electrocatalytic activity. Specifically, an ultralow overpotential of 270 mV at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is achieved. After adding 0.33 M urea into 1 M KOH, Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 obtains a strikingly reduced urea oxidation reaction potential of 1.36 V to reach 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , around 140 mV less than OER. This work provides insights into the synergistic modulation of electrocatalytic activity of non-noble catalysts for applications in energy conversion systems.**

S. Huang, Q. Zhang, P. Xin, J. Zhang, J. Fu, Z. Jin, Q. Wang, Z. Hu School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering Shanghai University

99 Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, P. R. China E-mail: sshuang@shu.edu.cn; zhangjun.hu@liu.se

Q. Chen

School of Computer Engineering and Science Shanghai University 99 Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, P. R. China

E-mail: qcchen@shu.edu.cn

Z. Hu

Division of Molecular Surface Physics & Nanoscience Department of Physics Chemistry and Biology Linköping University Linköping 58183, Sweden

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202106841.

© 2022 The Authors. Small published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202106841**

# **1. Introduction**

In recent years, the increasingly intractable energy and environmental threats have attracted great attention around the world. To alleviate these issues, hydrogen stands out from many renewable resources and becomes the most attractive and promising alternative energy carrier by virtue of high eco-friendliness, gravimetric energy density, and calorific value along with intermittent availability.[1] Electrochemical water splitting, which includes oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), is preferred owing to the advantages of high-efficiency, handleability, and pollution-free. Nevertheless, the implementation of generating hydrogen on a large-scale remains bottlenecked due to the high energy cost generated by high overpotential.[2] Therefore, it is highly imperative to design and develop efficient catalysts for commercial applications. Noble metal-based compounds, such as Pt and RuO2, are typical HER and OER catalysts with excellent efficiency.

However, they were impeded by reserves and expense concerns for further scale use.[3] In this regard, the research shift from noble metal to non-noble metal is undoubtedly a wise choice.

Recently, extensive investigations focus on transition metalbased catalysts containing metal carbides,[4] nitrides,[5] phosphides,[6] and chalcogenides,[7] etc. By means of low-cost, richreserves, and intriguing catalytic activity, nickel sulfides have captured tons of attractions.[8] Nevertheless, several key issues are found to prevent nickel sulfide from being applied to largescale industrial production, mainly on unsatisfied conductivity caused by an unbefitting electronic structure and insufficient catalytic sites. To promote the intrinsic electrocatalytic activity of nickel sulfides, electronic modulation, crystalline regulation, and morphological design have been widely employed.[9] Particularly, heteroatoms doping has been demonstrated to be an effective approach on regulating electronic structure and gained some gratifying results. For instance, Liu et al.[10] reported that Cr-doped NiS*x* in situ grown on Ni foam exhibited excellent HER activity with 81 mV at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . The enhanced activity was attributed to the improved conductivity induced by Cr-doping and reduced Gibbs free energy (Δ*G*H). Zeng et al.[11]

www.small-journal.com www.advancedsciencenews.com

discovered that the incorporation of Mn into NiS2 resulted in lattice defects and the electron rearrangement, which adjusted the hydrogen adsorption free energy with an overpotential of 71 mV to drive 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> toward HER. Similarly, Yin et al.<sup>[12]</sup> reported that doping Co into NiS2 contributed to optimizing electronic and atomic configuration. Liu et al.[13] found that 10% V-doped NiS2 exhibited dramatically enhanced activity than pure NiS2 due to the rapid electron transfer from doped V to Ni sites. Most recently, density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that introducing an appropriate content of Fe was more advantageous than those of V, Co, Mn element owing to lower reaction energy barrier.<sup>[14]</sup> For instance, Xie et al.<sup>[15]</sup> reported that 10 wt% Fe-NiS<sub>2</sub>/C only required 1.49 V (versus RHE) to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> toward OER. Li et al. found hierarchical Fe-doped NiS and Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> exhibited improved OER electrocatalytic activity on account of the structural defects and the regulation of the surface electronic states caused by Fe-doping, which allowed the well-exposure of active sites and the reduction of energy barrier. Therefore, the doping of Fe is a productive strategy to enhance intrinsic electrocatalytic activity of

Apart from heteroatom doping, constructing heterostructures has attracted more and more attention due to the synergistic effect. For example, Guan et al.[17] reported that NiS2/MoS2 heterostructure required the overpotentials of 106 and 203 mV for HER and OER at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH, respectively. The boosted performance related to the electron redistribution on heterogenous interface. Zhou et al. [9b] reported that the construction of NiS/NiS<sub>2</sub>@N-rGO heterostructure exposed more active sites and expedited the charge transfer rate, leading to markedly improved HER catalytic activity than NiS or NiS<sub>2</sub>. By this means, synergistically boosted electrocatalytic activity can be acquired because of optimized electronic structures, welldefined nanostructures, abundant active sites, faster charge, and mass transfer rates. Recently, there are several researches focusing on the combination of multiple strategies to enhance the electrocatalytic activities of catalysts. For instance, Li et al.[18] reported that the catlyst of Fe-doped (NiS<sub>2</sub>/MoS<sub>2</sub>)/CNT exhibited low overpotentials of 87 mV for HER and 234 mV for OER to attain 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH, respectively, much smaller than that of NiS2/MoS2. However, little attention has been devoted to such a study on the synergistic effect of Fedoping and the formation NiS-NiS2 heterojunctions for further improving the electrocatalytic activity for overall water splitting.

As we all know, OER is a typical four-electron reaction with sluggish reaction kinetics. In contrast, urea is more easily oxidized than water. Most recently, an increasing number of studies have revealed that urea has huge advantages in electrocatalytic water-splitting (named as urea-assisted system). Especially, urea-assisted system can be easily established by adding urea into water electrolyte, then the urea molecules are preferentially oxidized to produce CO2 and N2 at anode (known as urea oxidation reaction (UOR)), whereas the cathode is still responsible for hydrogen production.<sup>[19]</sup> Benefitting from the ultralow thermodynamic cell voltage of 0.37 V (versus 1.23 V) and non-toxic, urea-assisted system significantly reduces the anode overpotentials and cuts the practical costs.<sup>[20]</sup>

Based on the above discussion, in present work, nearly uniform Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 heterostructured hierarchical microspheres were fabricated through a low-temperature hydrothermal reaction following a controlled annealing procedure. The as-obtained Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 microspheres are constructed by mesoporous nanoplates, which endows the catalyst extensive inner surface and higher porosity, thus providing more active sites and expediting the diffusion and transmission of electrolyte. Additionally, the synergistic modulation of Fe-doping and NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> heterojunction can optimize electronic structure and induces electron redistribution, thus contributing to the regulation of adsorption/desorption process for reactive intermediates. Benefiting from the above advantages, the resulting Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 exhibits excellent electrocatalytic performance, only 270 mV is required to drive 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for OER and 163 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER in 1 M KOH. After adding 0.33 M urea into 1 M KOH, it merely demands an extremely low potential of 1.36 V toward UOR, roughly 140 mV lower than OER to offer 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In a nutshell, this work may provide a benign guidance for the design and application of electrocatalyst in the future.

## 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Fe-Doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>

The synthetic procedure of the Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> heterostructured microspheres is systematically displayed in Figure 1. Firstly, uniform Ni-Co PBA nanocubes with an average size of 242 nm were synthesized through a co-precipitation strategy. Subsequently, Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS<sub>x</sub>/Ni<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> hierarchical microspheres were prepared via selective chemical etching/ anion exchange reaction at elevated temperature, in which Ni-Co PBA nanocubes were used as nickel source and (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>S was used as etching agent and sulfur source, respectively. During the heat process, a large number of polysulfide ions  $(S_x^{2-})$  and hydroxide ions (OH<sup>-</sup>) were generated due to the double hydrolysis of (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>S in the solution, leading to the etching of the Ni-Co PBA nanocubes. As the reaction went on, the templates of Ni-Co PBA nanocubes were completely destroyed, and the released Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions then reacted with OH<sup>-</sup> to generate γ-NiOOH nanoplates with a self-assembly style. In addition, the Fe3+ ions were easily doped into crystal lattice of γ-NiOOH owing to the similar ionic radius with that of Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions. Meanwhile, the γ-NiOOH nanosheets were continuously transformed into NiS<sub>x</sub> and Ni<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> driven by the thermodynamic equilibrium, resulting in the formation of uniform and nearly monodispersed Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS<sub>x</sub>/Ni<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> hierarchical microspheres. All the reaction processes can be expressed as

$$Ni_3[Co(CN)_6]_2 + 6OH^- \rightarrow 3Ni(OH)_2 + 2[Co(CN)_6]^{3-}$$
 (1)

$$Ni(OH)_2 + OH^- \rightarrow NiOOH + H_2O + e^-$$
 (2)

$$NiOOH + xS^{2-} + H_2O \rightarrow NiS_x + 3OH^- + (2x - 3)e^-$$
 (3)

Afterward, these Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS<sub>x</sub>/Ni<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> microspheres were annealed at 350 °C for 2 h under the protection

**Figure 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured microspheres.

of N2 gas, the polysulfide of NiS*x* was transformed into high-crystallinity NiS2 nanoparticles. Meanwhile, Fe-doped γ-NiOOH nanoplates were decomposed to generate CO2, H2O, and Fe-doped NiO nanoparticles. These small nanoparticles further reacted with polysulfide ions adsorbed on its surface or sulfur vapor derived from the decomposition of NiSx, which were in situ converted into NiS and NiS2 nanoparticles. Thus, uniform Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured hierarchical architectures constructed by porous nanoplates were obtained. The co-existence of NiS and NiS2 phases indicate the complicated coordination environment of Ni atoms in the Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS*x*/Ni9S8 precursor.

The morphological features of the resultant samples were then investigated through scanning electron microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM). The SEM image in **Figure 2**a shows that the average size of the as-synthesized Ni-Co PBA nanocubes is around 242 nm with a narrow sizedistribution. The TEM image in Figure 2b,c illustrates that the Ni–Co PBA nanocubes are well-defined solid particles. These Ni–Co PBA nanocubes are then used as sacrifice templates and nickel source for the fabrication of Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS*x*/ Ni9S8 precursor via a facile hydrothermal method. After a reaction time of 0.5 h at 100 °C, it can be found that the edges of the Ni–Co PBA nanocubes are completely etched, whereas their plane surfaces have almost no changes, leading to the formation of unique truncated nanocubes (Figure 2d,e). This result can be ascribed to the higher reaction activity at the edge of the nanotubes than that of plane parts, accordance with Yu's word and previous studies.[21,22] After reaction for 10 h, all the Ni– Co PBA nanocubes completely disappear, and uniform nanoplates-assembled hierarchical microspheres can be obtained according to the SEM and TEM observations. Specifically, the relevant SEM in Figure 2f implies that the average size of the hierarchical microspheres is about 1.1 µm, much larger than that of Ni–Co PBA nanotubes. The TEM images in Figure 2g,h confirm the microspheres are assembled by nanoplates with smooth surface. The crystal structure and composites are then analyzed by XRD measurements. As shown in Figure 2i, the diffraction patterns can be well identified as NiS*x* (JCPDS No. 51-0717), γ-NiOOH (JCPDS No. 06-0075), and Ni9S8 (JCPDS No. 78-1886), respectively. Additionally, no diffraction peaks of iron-based compounds can be found. All these results suggest that the as-synthesized samples are composed of Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS*x*/Ni9S8 hierarchical microspheres.

After annealing at 350 °C for 2 h under N2 atmosphere, the Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS*x*/Ni9S8 precursor is transformed into Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured microspheres. The SEM in **Figure 3**a indicates the Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 inherits the nanoflower-like structure, similar to the pure NiS2 (Figure S1, Supporting Information), NiS–NiS2 heterojunctions (Figure S2, Supporting Information), and Fe-doped NiS2 samples (Figure S3, Supporting Information). However, the obvious contrast differences in TEM image of Figure 3b imply that the sample presents the porous structure, and many holes can be found on a single nanoplate from a magnified TEM image (Figure 3c). The thickness of the nanoplates is in the range of 23–27 nm (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Apparently, the porous struture are beneficial for providing more abundant accessible channels to facilitate the charge transfer and mass diffusion. Figure 3d–k shows the high-resolution (HRTEM) images of a single nanoplate. Several different crystal plane orientations of NiS2 and NiS can be found in Figure 3e. Figure 3f exhibits the clear lattice fringes corresponding to the region f marked in Figure 3e, indicating the high crystallinity of the Fedoped NiS–NiS2 sample. In addition, the interplanar spacing of 0.296 and 0.284 nm in Figure 3g,h match well with (100) facet of NiS and the (200) facet of NiS2, respectively, evidencing the formation of NiS–NiS2 heterojunctions. The clear NiS–NiS2

Figure 2. The SEM image (a) and TEM images (b,c) of the Ni–Co PBA nanocubes. The SEM images of etched Ni–Co PBA nanocubes (d,e) after reaction for 0.5 h at 100 °C. The SEM image (f), TEM images (g,h), and the XRD pattern (i) of Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS<sub>X</sub>/Ni<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>.

heterogeneous interface and characteristic lattice plane can also be observed in Figure 3i-k. Besides, some defects can also be observed. The close contact of NiS and NiS2 can improve the charge transfer during the electrocatalytic process and reduce the reaction barrier. From the elemental mapping images in Figure 3l, Ni, S, and Fe elements were distributed evenly in the Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>, confirming the successful doping of Fe into the sample. EDX result indicated that the weight content of Fe is 1.57 wt%, and the weight ratio of Ni and S elements is 55.73: 42.70 (Figure S5, Supporting Information), suggesting that the molar content ratio of NiS and NiS2 in Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 is around 3: 2. Additionally, it is found that the annealing temperature exerts a big influence on the formation of Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> sample (Figure S6, Supporting Information). When the annealing treatment was performed at 200 °C, the γ-NiOOH phase still existed in the sample. However, pure Fe-doped Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> can be obtained when it was annealed at 500 °C.

The crystal structure and phase information of the as-synthesized Fe-doped NiS $_2$ , NiS-NiS $_2$ , and Fe-doped NiS–NiS $_2$  samples were also analyzed by XRD measurements. As displayed in **Figure 4**a, for the Fe-doped NiS $_2$  sample, the peaks at  $2\theta=27.14^\circ$ , 31.43°, 35.26°, 38.75°, 45.05°, and 53.38° matched well with the (111), (200), (210), (211), (220), and (311) planes of cubic NiS $_2$  (JCPDS No. 88-1709), respectively. No other diffraction peaks, such as Fe $_2$ O $_3$ , FeS, and FeS $_2$ , could be observed after Fe doping, indicating the high purity of the products. For

the NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> sample, the diffraction peaks of NiS<sub>2</sub> can still be discovered. Besides, the new peaks located at  $2\theta = 30.15^{\circ}$ , 34.67°, 45.91° could be ascribed to (100), (101), (102) planes of NiS (JCPDS No. 75-0613), respectively, suggesting the coexistence of NiS and NiS2 in the product. The XRD pattern of Fedoped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> is very similar to that of NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>, implying the well-retained crystal structure after the Fe-doping. Figure 4b showed the Raman spectra of the Fe-doped NiS2, NiS-NiS2, and Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 samples, respectively. All three samples displayed a sharp and strong peak around 472.2 cm<sup>-1</sup> and a weak and a broad peak at around 272.5 cm<sup>-1</sup>, matching with the stretching vibrations of the S-S pairs (Ag mode) and the Eg phonons of NiS2, respectively.[22b] Besides, the peaks located at 294.1 and 365.6 cm<sup>-1</sup> in NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> and Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> can be ascribed to the A<sub>1</sub> stretching modes of NiS, [22b,23] suggesting the presence of NiS and the formation of heterostructure. [24] Moreover, a big and wide peak appeared at 550 cm<sup>-1</sup> for the Fe-doped NiS2 and Fe-doped NiS-NiS2, which is attributed to the Fe-S bonds. These results suggested the successful doping of Fe into nickel sulfides, in good agreement with the element mapping results.

The XPS measurements were implemented to study the elemental states and chemical bonding configurations of Fedoped NiS<sub>2</sub> and Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>. As shown in Figure 4c, the elements of Fe, Ni, S, C, and O are detected from the survey spectra of the samples. Figure 4d displays the high-resolution

Figure 3. The SEM (a), TEM images (b,c), HRTEM images (d-k), and the elemental mapping images (l) of the as-synthesized Fe-doped NiS-NiS2.

Ni 2p spectra of the Fe-doped NiS2 and Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 samples. As for the Fe-doped NiS2, the two peaks at around 871. $\overline{3}$  and 853.4 eV are assigned to Ni  $2p_{1/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  of Ni<sup>2+</sup> species, [25] while the other two peaks at 875.5 and 854.9 eV are ascribed to the Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> of Ni<sup>3+</sup> species, respectively. [8a] Besides, the two peaks at 859.5 and 881.6 eV correspond to the shakeup satellite peaks (denoted as sat.). [26] Particularly, the binding energies of Ni 2p shift to a higher binding energy region by about 0.25 eV upon forming NiS-NiS2 heterojunctions, strongly suggesting the electron transfer occurred at the heterojunction interfaces. In terms of Fe 2p region (Figure 4e), the peak at 707.2 eV is associated with strong Fe-S bonding,<sup>[27]</sup> while the two pairs of pronounced peaks at 724.2 and 712.5 eV can be attributed to Fe  $2p_{1/2}$  and Fe  $2p_{3/2}$  of Fe<sup>3+</sup> signals, respectively, implying that most Fe exists in the form of Fe3+.[28] Recent studies demonstrate that the high valence Ni<sup>3+</sup> species can tune the electron density of Ni and therefore enhance the OER activity.<sup>[29]</sup> Particularly, the peak ratio of Ni<sup>3+</sup>/ Ni<sup>2+</sup> for Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> is 1.39 (Table S1, Supporting Information), smaller than that of Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 (1.64). These results indicate that the formation of heterojunctions leads to an increased valence state of partial Ni components in the Fedoped NiS-NiS2, which is beneficial for the OER reaction. For S 2p region shown in Figure 4f, the peaks position of  $S_2^{2-}$  2p<sub>3/2</sub> and  $S_2^{2-}$  2p<sub>1/2</sub> orbitals are at 162.8 and 164.0 eV for Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub>, while the peak located at 168.9 eV is associated with S-O bond induced by the air oxidation.<sup>[30]</sup> For Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>, the peak of  $S_2^{2-}$   $2p_{3/2}$  shifts around 0.12 eV to a lower binding energy compared with that of Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub>, which can be attributed to the formation of NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> and strong electronic interactions between NiS and NiS<sub>2</sub>. Additionally, the peaks located at 161.6 and 162.7 eV ascribed to  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  of S<sup>2-</sup>, respectively, following its heterogeneous structure.

## 2.2. Electrochemical Performance of Fe-Doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>

### 2.2.1. OER Performance of Fe-Doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>

The OER performance of the Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> catalyst was explored through the LSV measurements. For comparison, Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub>, NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> catalysts were also comprehensively evaluated under identical conditions. The IR-corrected LSV curves presented in **Figure 5a** indicate that the Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> catalyst manifests the best OER catalytic activity among the four electrodes, and a current density of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> can be obtained at a low overpotential of 270 mV, superior to the overpotentials of 404 mV for NiS<sub>2</sub>, 388 mV for NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, 291 mV for Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> and 306 mV for RuO<sub>2</sub>, respectively. These results are comparable to or better than other Ni-based chalcogenide OER electrocatalysts in alkaline media (Table S2, Supporting Information). In addition, the current density of Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> in 1.5–1.6 V (versus RHE) is significantly higher than the

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 4. a) XRD patterns of the as-synthesized samples. b) Raman spectra of Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 and the references. c-f) XPS spectra of Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> and Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub>. c) Survey spectra of samples and d-f) high-resolution XPS spectra of Ni 2p (d), Fe 2p (e), and S 2p (f).

reference samples, which also reflects its outstanding electrocatalytic activity toward OER. Remarkably, the current density of Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 can reach 389.5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at the potential of 1.6 V, being approximately 13.56, 10.38, 3.03, and 2.01 times larger than those of the NiS<sub>2</sub> (28.73 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> (37.52 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), RuO<sub>2</sub> (128.60 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Fe-NiS<sub>2</sub> (193.80 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) catalyst, respectively. Tafel slope was then taken to study the OER catalytic reaction kinetics, which refers to the slope of the linear region (overpotential versus log |current density) displayed in Figure 5b. Evidently, the Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> exhibits a much smaller Tafel slope of 84.21 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> than NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> (149.22 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), RuO<sub>2</sub> (124.03 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Fedoped NiS<sub>2</sub> (105.24 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and NiS<sub>2</sub> (150.79 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). The lowest overpotential and Tafel slope for the Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> catalyst imply that the construction of NiS-NiS2 heterostructure associated with Fe-doping can tremendously boost the OER kinetics.

To investigate the origin of the high catalytic activity of the Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 electrode, CV measurements at different scan rates (Figure S7, Supporting Information) were operated in the non-Faradaic region to assess the electrochemical double-layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$  value, which is proportional to electrochemical active surface area (ECSA).[31] By fitting the linear slope of the current density differences against the scan rates, the  $C_{\rm dl}$  values of different catalysts are obtained. As depicted in Figure 5c, Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> displays a C<sub>dl</sub> value of 9.19 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, much larger than those of NiS<sub>2</sub> (5.37 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>),  $NiS-NiS_2$  (5.81 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Fe-doped  $NiS_2$  (6.28 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating that the doping of Fe element and formation of heterointerface can enlarge the exposure of electrochemical

active areas. To understand the electrochemical process and reaction kinetics on electrode surface, electrochemical impedance (EIS) tests were performed. The charge transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  is well established as a crucial metric for revealing charge transfer kinetics at the catalyst/electrolyte interface.<sup>[32]</sup> In Figure 5d, the  $R_{ct}$  value for Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> is 3.38  $\Omega$ , smaller than Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> (4.92  $\Omega$ ), testifying that the electronic modulation by interfacial engineering is an effective strategy to enhance the activity of OER electrocatalysts. Besides, the  $R_{ct}$  value of Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> is also smaller than that of NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> (10.25  $\Omega$ ).

This comparison demonstrates the Fe-doping can significantly accelerate the charge transfer and expedite the OER process. For interpreting the intrinsic catalytic activity, the turnover frequency (TOF) values were calculated by CV tests. The TOF represents the generated numbers of the product molecule per active site in unit time, which intuitively reflected the intrinsic activity of catalysts. The related results are displayed in Figure 5e. Within the overpotential range of 270 to 370 mV, Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 displays a markedly larger TOF value of 0.028 s<sup>-1</sup> than Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> (0.016 s<sup>-1</sup>) and NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> (0.003 s<sup>-1</sup>) at 310 mV, revealing the intrinsic OER superiority of Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>.

The long-term stability is also a crucial descriptor to intuitively reflect the ability to retain the initial activity over a longtime operation. The LSV curves before and after continuous 1000 CV cycles are displayed in Figure 5f. The overlapped polarization curves suggest the well-retained activity of Fedoped NiS-NiS2 after continuous 1000 CV cycles. The chronoamperometry responses of Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> within 12 h were

16136829, 2022, 14, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.020106841 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions

: (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 5. OER performance in 1 M KOH. a) LSV curves of Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub>, NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, RuO<sub>2</sub>, and NiS<sub>2</sub>, b) the corresponding Tafel slopes, c) the fitted  $C_{dl}$  values, d) Nyquist plots measured at 0.6 V (versus Reference), and e) TOFs of samples at different overpotentials from 270 to 370 mV. f) LSV curves before and after 1000 CV cycles, the inset of (f) shows the *I–t* curve of Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> at  $\eta_{50}$  of 270 mV.

also recorded under 1.5 V (versus RHE, inset of Figure 5f), no marked attenuation of activity can be observed within 12 h at 50 mA cm $^{-2}$ , suggesting the excellent OER stability of Fe-doped NiS–NiS $_2$  in 1.0 M KOH.

## 2.2.2. UOR performance of Fe-Doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>

Differ from OER, UOR occurs preferentially at the anode based on the equation of  $CO(NH_2)_2 + 8 OH^- \rightarrow 6 H_2O + N_2 + CO_3^{2-} + 6 e^-$  in the electrolyte containing urea. [33] Herein, we

chose 0.33 M urea as an example based on 1 M KOH solution, and the overpotentials, Tafel slopes,  $C_{\rm dl}$ ,  $R_{\rm ct}$  along with stability toward UOR were systematically assessed for comparation. From **Figure 6a**, Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> merely requires a driving potential of 1.36 V (versus RHE) to reach 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, lower than that of Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> (1.37 V) and NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> (1.39 V) and NiS<sub>2</sub> (1.41 V). The Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> still shows the lowest potential among all the samples, consistent with OER results. The Tafel plots were displayed in Figure 6b, obviously, Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> holds the minimum Tafel slope of 33.01 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> relative to Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> (36.88 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>),

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

**Figure 6.** UOR performance in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea. a) LSV curves of Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, RuO<sub>2</sub>, NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, and NiS<sub>2</sub>, b) the corresponding Tafel slopes, c) the  $C_{dl}$  values at different scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, d) Nyquist plots measured at 0.6 V (versus Reference), e) LSV curves before, and after 1000 CV cycles and f) the comparison of the polarization curves for Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> with and without 0.33 M urea.

NiS–NiS $_2$  (50.47 mV dec $^{-1}$ ), NiS $_2$  (106.31 mV dec $^{-1}$ ) and the commercial RuO $_2$  (72.29 mV dec $^{-1}$ ), suggesting Fe-doped NiS–NiS $_2$  undergoes the fastest UOR catalytic kinetics. The C $_{\rm dl}$  values coming from CV tests (Figure S8, Supporting Information) were shown in Figure 6c. The Fe-doped NiS–NiS $_2$  possesses the maximum C $_{\rm dl}$  value of 8.03 mF cm $^{-1}$ , greater than that of Fe-doped NiS $_2$  (5.57 mF cm $^{-1}$ ), NiS–NiS $_2$  (4.03 mF cm $^{-1}$ ), and NiS $_2$  (3.08 mF cm $^{-1}$ ), implying the largest active surface exposure for Fe-doped NiS–NiS $_2$  in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea electrolyte.

The EIS tests were conducted to discuss the charge transfer kinetics on the electrolyte/electrode interface. The  $R_{\rm ct}$  values together with typical equivalent circuit were supplied in Figure 6d and its inset. The NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> exhibits the maximum  $R_{\rm ct}$  value of 13.86  $\Omega$ , however, the  $R_{\rm ct}$  value of Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> decreases to 4.35  $\Omega$  after Fe-doping. The markedly reduced resistance is attributed to the promoted charge and mass transfer rates after Fe-doping. Meanwhile, Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> enjoys a larger  $R_{\rm ct}$  of 6.77  $\Omega$  than Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, affirming the unique advantage of NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> hierarchical heterostructure on accelerating electrochemical process.

The long-term durability for Fe-doped  $NiS-NiS_2$  was measured in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea. The polarization curves with 1000 cycles CV scanning are displayed in Figure 6e. The highly repetitive trend can be clearly observed, indicative of the prominent stability toward UOR. Moreover, the comparison results of LSV curves for Fe-doped  $NiS-NiS_2$ , with and without 0.33 M urea, are supplied in Figure 6f. Clearly, a significant reduction of about 140 mV can be found after adding 0.33 M urea at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which conforms to previous reports. [34] Therefore, we confirm the potential advantage of urea on reducing the anode overpotential by experimental tests.

#### 2.2.3. HER Performance of Fe-Doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub>

Typically, heterostructure combined with iron doping also achieves high catalytic activity toward HER. Under the same three-electrode system, a series of electrochemical tests were measured and appraised in 1 M KOH electrolyte. For Fe-doped NiS-NiS2, it takes only 167 mV (versus RHE) of overpotential to attach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, while the required overpotentials of Fedoped NiS2 and NiS-NiS2 are 189 and 216 mV (versus RHE), respectively. (Figure 7a) The lowest overpotential of Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> suggests that the smallest activation energy barrier is required to overcome when driving HER process. Additionally, the highest catalytic current of Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 at the same potential also indicates its superior intrinsic activity. The corresponding Tafel slopes are shown in Figure 7b, where Fedoped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> possesses the smallest value of 98.40 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> compared to that of Fe-doped NiS2 (131.13 mV dec-1) and NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> (135.61 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). This comparison strongly suggests the NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> heterostructures can effectively activate HER catalytic reaction. Besides, the incorporation of Fe gives rise to the wellregulated electronic structure on the surface of catalyst, further expediting the generation of  $H_2$ . Additionally, a considerable  $C_{dl}$ value of 53.42 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> is presented in Figure 7c and Figure S9, approximately twice as large as that of Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> (22.41 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), suggesting that the more abundant electrochemically active surface area can be achieved after constructing NiS-NiS2 heterojunction. A significantly lower Cdl value of 2.47 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> is obtained for NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, further demonstrating that the doping of Fe conduces to the production of more available active sites and thereby improves catalytic activity. To further understand the stability of Fe-doped NiS-NiS2, the

Figure 7. HER performance of samples. a–c) The corresponding performance in 1 M KOH: a) LSV curves, b) Tafel slopes, and c) the  $C_{dl}$  values at different scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. d–f) The corresponding performance in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea: d) LSV curves, e) Tafel slopes, and f) the  $C_{dl}$  values at different scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> of 20 wt % Pt/C, Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub>, and NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> samples.

chronoamperometry test was conducted at the potential of -1.1~V (versus RHE). Clearly, the favorable stability can be discovered from Figure S10. Within 12 h, the current density can maintain at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  and has no significant attenuation.

To explore the effect of adding urea in electrolyte on cathodic reaction, the relevant tests were measured in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea solution. For convenience, the cathodic reaction occurring in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea solution is marked as HER (U). It is obvious that Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> still exhibits the lowest overpotential of 162 mV (versus RHE) to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, whereas that of Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> and NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> require larger overpotentials of 187 and 236 mV, respectively. (Figure 7d) For comparison, no distinct overpotential change occurs at cathode when adding 0.33 M urea into 1 M KOH, in keeping with previous reports. Figure 7e shows the derived Tafel slopes of different samples. Obviously, the lowest Tafel slope of 102.11 mV dec-1 for Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 means the fastest reaction kinetics of HER, corresponding to the lowest overpotential for Fe-doped NiS-NiS2. In contrast, Fe-doped NiS2 and NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> hold the larger slopes of 112.65 and 140.03 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The above results evidence that the rapid catalytic kinetics toward HER (U) can still be maintained in 1 M KOH +0.33 M urea, which can be attributed to the synergistic effect of NiS-NiS2 heterojunction and heteroatomic doping. Moreover, the corresponding C<sub>dl</sub> values from CV tests (Figure S11, Supporting Information) were presented in Figure 7f. It can be found that the Fe-doped NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> obtains a considerable  $C_{dl}$ value of 57.31 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, much bigger than that of Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub> (4.63 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> (2.69 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), illustrating the increased catalytic sites in the sample.

# 2.2.4. Overall Water Splitting (OWS) and Overall Urea Splitting (OUS) Performance

For the sake of exploring the bifunctional feature toward overall water-splitting, a two-electrode system is assembled in 1 M KOH and 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea electrolyte. For comparison. the ruthenium dioxide and platinum carbon serve as anode and cathode (RuO<sub>2</sub>||20wt% Pt/C), respectively. From Figure 8a, it can be shown that Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 merely demands a cell voltage of 1.59 V to yield 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH, while its counterparts, Fe-doped NiS<sub>2</sub>, NiS-NiS<sub>2</sub> and NiS<sub>2</sub> hold the larger applied voltages of 1.65, 1.71 and 1.75 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, verifying the superiority of synergistically regulation by integrating Fe-doping effect with heterojunction. Besides, Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 also shows better catalytic activity than RuO<sub>2</sub>||20wt% Pt/C under higher current density. Meanwhile, the optimized Fe-doped NiS-NiS2 sample can perform well over a period of 12 h evidenced by the i-t curves in Figure 8c, suggesting its excellent stability.

Motivated by the drastically reduced overpotential toward UOR, it is quite necessary to study the overall electrocatalytic activity toward both HER (cathode) and UOR (anode). Interestingly, Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> possesses the best bifunctional performance and minimum energy consumption, even overtaking the benchmark of RuO<sub>2</sub>||20 wt% Pt/C. Specifically, a small cell voltage of 1.55 V proceeded on Fe-doped NiS–NiS<sub>2</sub> in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea (Figure 8b) When driving 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, almost reduced by 40 mV compared to OWS (Figure 8d), indicating that urea molecule also plays a positive role on overall water splitting system. Besides, the current density for Fe-doped

**Figure 8.** Overall water and urea splitting performance of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 and the reference samples. a) LSV curves for the full electrolyze cells of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2, Fe-doped NiS2, NiS–NiS2, NiS2, and RuO2||20 wt.% Pt/C electrodes measured in 1 M KOH. b) The corresponding LSV curves of samples measured in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea with a scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . c) *I*–*t* curve of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 measured in 1 M KOH at a voltage of 1.59 V. d) The comparison of the polarization curves with or without 0.33 M urea for Fe-doped NiS–NiS2. The dashed line and arrow in (a,b) marked the voltage to deliver 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

NiS–NiS2 increases sharply and reaches a high value at low voltage. As a contrast, larger potentials of 1.59, 1.61, and 1.64 V are achieved for Fe-doped NiS2, NiS–NiS2, and NiS2, respectively. Thus, we can conclude that adding urea into 1 M KOH is a effective way to reduce the overall energy cost.

#### **2.3. Analysis of Intrinsic Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity**

For elucidating the intrinsic reasons of the boosted electrocatalytic activity of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 for both OER and UOR, DFT calculations were then conducted to analyze the changes of electron structure and the adsorption free energy of oxygen-containing intermediates induced by Fe-doping and formation of NiS/NiS2 heterojunctions. The pristine NiS (100) and NiS2 (100) planes were selected to simulate the surface properties according to the HRTEM images. Then, six schematic models in all were established, that is, pure NiS2, pure NiS, Fe-substituted Ni in NiS, Fe-substituted Ni in NiS2, NiS– NiS2 heterojunctions (Figures S12–S14, Supporting Information), and Fe-substituted Ni in the NiS–NiS2 heterojunctions, which are named as NiS2, NiS, Fe-NiS2, Fe-NiS, NiS–NiS2, and Fe-NiS–NiS2, respectively. The optimized Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterojunction model is depicted in **Figure 9**a. The charge density differences in Figure 9b illustrated a self-driven electron transfer from NiS2 (100) to NiS (100), indicating a strong charge exchange occurred between NiS and NiS2. Particularly, there is a clear electron decrease around Ni atoms at the heterointerface of NiS and NiS2, which is beneficial for the capture of hydroxyl groups to accelerate the OER.[35] As deduced from the band structure (Figure S15a, Supporting Information), the bandgap of NiS2 is calculated to be 0.17 eV, displaying a semiconductor characteristic. However, the bandgap is decreased to 0.01 eV for the Fe-doped NiS2 (Figure S15b, Supporting Information), implying the enhanced conductivity of NiS2 by Fe doping (Figure S15c, Supporting Information).[14] Similar results are also obtained for Fe-doped NiS (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Figure 9c showed the density of state (DOS) of NiS2, NiS, and Fe-doped NiS–NiS2. It can be seen that the electronic states of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 close to Fermi level manifested a higher intensity than that of pure NiS and NiS2, reflecting the boosted charge transfer rate and electrical conductivity for the Fe-doped NiS–NiS2. [36] It is found that hydrogen adsorption free energy (Δ*G*H\*) on at the interface is only 0.17 eV, which is close to optimal value thus showing its high HER performance (Figure S17, Supporting Information). The four elementary steps proceeding on the Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterojunction toward OER were illustrated in Figure 9d. Obviously, the generation of activated \*OOH intermediates from \*O is the rate-determining step (RDS) during the entire OER process.[37] In Figure 9e-g and Figure S18, Supporting Information, the calculated Gibbs free energy change (Δ*G*) of the RDS on Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 is 1.79 eV, much lower than those of NiS2 (2.49 eV), NiS (2.55 eV), Fe–NiS2 (2.17 eV), Fe–NiS (2.36 eV),

**Figure 9.** The optimized atomic structure (a) and charge density difference (b) of the Fe-doped NiS–NiS2. c) DOS of NiS2, NiS, NiS–NiS2, and Fe-doped NiS–NiS2. d) Schematic illustration of H2O activation, the formation of OH\*, O\*, OOH\* intermediate, and oxygen generation processes on Fe-doped NiS–NiS2. The calculated Gibbs free-energy diagrams for four steps of OER on NiS2 (e), NiS (f), and Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 (g).

and NiS–NiS2 (2.25 eV) counterparts, respectively. The significantly reduced Δ*G* of the RDS implied that the establishment of NiS–NiS2 heterojunction association with Fe-doping could significantly reduce the reaction energy barrier and therefore display excellent OER catalytic activity.[31b] As for the UOR, due to the presence of electrostatic interaction, electron-withdrawing carbonyl may be prone to be absorbed on the surface Ni atoms of NiS2 side, while the electron-donating amino group is easily absorbed on the surface Ni atoms at NiS side. In this regard, the CN bond in urea molecule is disturbed, which promotes the urea electrooxidation.[38] The above DFT simulation results clearly demonstrate that the heteroatom doping and interface engineering can effectively tune the electronic structure of the catalysts with reduced reaction barrier for water and urea oxidation.

Based on the above electrochemical analysis and DFT calculation results, the elaborately designed Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 catalyst indeed possesses admirable electrocatalytic activity and rapid catalytic kinetics for water-urea splitting, which can be attributed to the following aspects: 1) The hierarchical structure provides enlarged active surface and higher porosity, in favor of exposing more available active sites and facilitating electrolyte diffusion. 2) The construction of NiS–NiS2 heterojunctions effectively regulates the electronic structure of nickel sulfides, improves conductivity, and increases the amounts of active sites. 3) Introducing Fe heteroatom into the crystal lattice of NiS–NiS2 heterostructure induces the electron redistribution, facilitating the electron transfer kinetics and the intrinsic activity. As a result, the Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured microspheres exhibited favorable electrocatalytic performance toward urea-assisted water splitting.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured hierarchical microspheres built by porous nanoplates were synthesized via etching Prussian blue analogues following a controlled annealing treatment. The electrochemical measurements and DFT calculation results verify that the establishment

**www.small-journal.com**

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

of NiS–NiS2 heterojunction associated with Fe-doping can improve the conductivity, modulate the electronic configuration of nickel sulfides and optimize the free energy of oxygencontaining intermediates adsorption and desorption on the active sites. Meanwhile, the hierarchical architecture exposes more available active sites and facilitates electrolyte diffusion, making great contributions to improving the reaction kinetics and accelerating the electrocatalytic process. Benefiting from the above superiorities of thermodynamics and kinetics, the Fedoped NiS–NiS2 exhibited synergistically boosted electrocatalytic activity, around 270 mV for OER to deliver 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , superior to that of other samples. Noticeably, the anode overpotential for UOR reduced by 140 mV compared to OER after adding 0.33 M urea, greatly reducing energy consumption practically. Additionally, a small voltage of 1.55 V was required at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for OUS, 40 mV lower than that of OWS (1.59 V), meaning that urea plays a key role in reducing overpotential and energy consumption. We anticipate that this work can provide more insights for developing efficient and cost-efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts for energy conversion.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Synthesis of Fe-Doped* γ*-NiOOH/NiSx/Ni*9*S*8 *Hierarchical Microspheres*: To prepare Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiSx/Ni9S8 precursor, well-defined nickel-cobalt Prussian blue analogous (Ni-Co PBA) nanocubes with narrow size distribution were firstly synthesized through a coprecipitation reaction according to the previous work.[21] Then, 60 mg of as-obtained Ni-Co PBA nanocubes and 0.017 mmol of Fe(NO3)3∙9 H2O were added into 90 mL of mixed solvent of ethanol/H2O with a volume ratio of 2:1. After magnetic stirring for 30 min, 3.0 mL of (NH4)2S (≥20%) aqueous solution was added and stirred evenly for another 30 min. Afterward, the mixture solution was transferred into the stainless-steel autoclave and kept at 100 °C for 10 h in an oven. After being cooled down to room temperature, the precipitate, named as Fe-doped *γ*-NiOOH/NiS*x*/Ni9S8, was obtained by centrifugation and then washed with ethanol and water three times, and finally dried overnight in a vacuum at 60 °C.

*Synthesis of Fe-Doped NiS–NiS*2*, NiS–NiS*2*, and Fe-Doped NiS*<sup>2</sup> *Microspheres*: The Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterostructured microspheres were fabricated by annealing the resultant Fe-doped *γ*-NiOOH/NiS*x*/ Ni9S8 precursor at 350 °C for 2 h under N2 flow with a ramp rate of 2°C min−<sup>1</sup> . For comparison, pure NiS–NiS2 and Fe-doped NiS2 microspheres were also prepared. The synthetic process of NiS–NiS2 heterostructured microspheres was similar to that of Fe-doped NiS– NiS2, except for the use of Fe(NO3)3∙9 H2O. To fabricate the Fe-doped NiS2 microspheres, 30 mg of Fe-doped γ-NiOOH/NiS*x*/Ni9S8 and 120 mg of sublimed sulfur powder were severally set in the two sides of the crucible, and annealed at 350 °C for 2 h in N2 atmosphere. Pure NiS2 sample was synthesized by the sulfidation of *γ*-NiOOH/NiS*x*/Ni9S8 precursor according to the previous study.

*Materials Characterizations*: The crystal structure and phase composition information were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD, D/MAX2200-3kw) with Cu-Kα radiation. The morphology and microstructure were intensively examined through scanning electron microscope (SEM, Hitachi S-4800), transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEM-200 CX), and high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM, JSM-2010F). Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy elemental mapping data were recorded to analyze the chemical element species. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS; Thermo Scientific K-Alpha<sup>+</sup>) was conducted with Mono chromated Al-Kα light source, and all accurate binding energies were determined by the adventitious C 1s peak (284.8 eV). Raman spectrum was measured on a spectrometer of XploRA PLUS using a 514 nm wavelength laser.

*The Preparation of Working Electrode*: The working electrode was prepared by a slurry coating method on the pre-treated nickel foam (NF). Typically, 6 mg of catalyst and 40 µL of Nafion were dispersed in the mixed solvent of 330 µL of deionized water and 110 µL of ethanol with ultrasonication treatment for 30 min. Then, 120 µL of the as-obtained "ink" was dropped on the NF with a geometric area of 1 × 1 cm2 . The electrode was dried at room temperature in a vacuum oven. The catalyst loading is about 1 mg cm−<sup>1</sup> .

*The Electrochemical Measurements of Samples*: The electrochemical performance of samples toward HER or OER/UOR was measured by constructing a three-electrode device connected to an electrochemical workstation (CHI 660e, Chenhua, Shanghai). The whole measurements were separately performed in 1 M KOH and 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea for comparison, and the potentials were converted against the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by the equation: *E*RHE (V) = *E*Hg/HgO (V) + 0.059 pH + 0.098 V, where 0.098 V was the standard potential of Hg/ HgO. Prior to tests, cyclic voltammetry (CV) test was firstly conducted at 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> for 50 scan cycles as electro-activation step, and the potential ranges were set at 0.024–0.224 V (versus RHE) for HER and 0.924– 1.124 V (versus RHE) for OER/UOR. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was set at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in the potential of 0.124–0.376 V (versus RHE) for HER and 0.924–1.724 V (versus RHE) for OER/UOR. All the polarization curves were IR compensated with 90%. The CV tests with different scan rates (10, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> ) were successively set in a constant potential window, commonly 0.1–0.2 V (versus RHE) for HER and 1.13–1.23 V (versus RHE) for OER/UOR. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analysis was performed at 0.6 V (versus Reference) with the amplitude of 5 mV, the frequency was set in the range of 0.01 Hz–1000 kHz. The chronoamperometry test was measured under a constant potential within 12 h; the LSV test before and after 1000 CV circles was used for investigating the activity change; The multi-step current measurement was conducted under various current density (10, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) with 12 h. The overall water splitting performance with or without 0.33 M urea was measured at a two-electrode setup. Especially, the CV electro-activation was measured in the range of 1–1.2 V for 50 cycles with 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , and LSV test was performed at 1–2 V at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> .

*Computational Method*: The DFT calculations were carried out by using the Vienna ab initio simulation package code. Projected augmented wave was used for depicting ion-electron interactions and the electronic structures were treated by employing the Perdew– Burke–Ernzerhof form of the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) expanded in a plane wave basis with a kinetic cutoff energy of 400 eV. In this study, 3d orbitals of Fe and Ni atoms were treated by using the GGA + U approach with an effective U value of 4.3 and 3.8 eV, respectively.[37] The Monkhorst–Pack meshes of 2 × 2 × 1 were used for k points-sampling in the Brillouin zone. The optimization calculation finished until the force acting on the atom is smaller than 0.02 eV Å−<sup>1</sup> According to the HRTEM observation, the NiS–NiS2 heterostructure model was built by combining the NiS(100)/NiS2(100) interfaces with a lattice mismatch ratio of 5.3%. The model of Fe-doped NiS–NiS2 heterojunction was built by replacing one Ni atom in NiS2 with one Fe atom. For comparison, pure NiS2, pure NiS, Fe-substituted Ni in NiS, Fe-substituted Ni in NiS2, and NiS–NiS2 heterojunctions were also built, which were named as NiS2, NiS, Fe–NiS2, Fe–NiS, NiS–NiS2, and Fe– NiS–NiS2, respectively. The generated heterostructure was separated by a 15 Å vacuum layer along z axis. The free energy diagram was calculated in a method reported by previous research.[39]

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

**www.small-journal.com**

## **Acknowledgements**

S.H. and Q.Z. contributed equally to this work. The work was supported by the Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (19ZR1418100), Science and Technology Program of Shanghai (21010500300), STINT Joint China-Sweden Mobility Project (CH2017- 7243), and Swedish Government strategic faculty grant in material science (SFO, MATLIU) in Advanced Functional Materials (AFM) (VR Dnr. 5.1-2015-5959). The authors also appreciate the Shiyanjia Lab (www. shiyanjia.com) for the XPS tests, the High-Performance Computing Center of Shanghai University and Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Intelligent Computing System (No. 19DZ2252600) for providing the computing resources and technical support.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

## **Keywords**

electrocatalysis, Fe-doping, heterostructures, sulfides, urea electrolysis

Received: November 8, 2021 Revised: January 7, 2022 Published online: February 18, 2022

- [1] a) M. Zeng, Y. G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 14942; b) B. Owens-Baird, Y. V. Kolen'ko, K. Kovnir, *Chem. - Eur. J.* **2018**, *24*, 7298.
- [2] W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. B. Liang, R. Q. Zou, S. J. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2650.
- [3] a) M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. W. Zhang, L. Wang, J. J. Zou, Z. L. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *37*, 136; b) X. X. Zou, Y. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 5148.
- [4] a) Q. P. Lu, Y. F. Yu, Q. L. Ma, B. Chen, H. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 1917; b) M. Naguib, O. Mashtalir, J. Carle, V. Presser, J. Lu, L. Hultman, Y. Gogotsi, M. W. Barsoum, *ACS Nano* **2012**, *6*, 1322.
- [5] a) Y. Wu, X. M. Li, H. Zhao, F. B. Yao, J. Cao, Z. Chen, X. D. Huang, D. B. Wang, Q. Yang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *418*, 129296; b) K. R. G. Lim, A. D. Handoko, S. K. Nemani, B. Wyatt, H. Y. Jiang, J. W. Tang, B. Anasori, Z. W. Seh, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 10834.
- [6] Y. Q. Wu, X. Tao, Y. Qing, H. Xu, F. Yang, S. luo, C. H. Tian, M. Liu, X. H. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900178.
- [7] a) A. Sohn, C. Kim, J. H. Jung, J. H. Kim, K. E. Byun, Y. Cho, P. Zhao, S. W. Kim, M. Seol, Z. Lee, S. W. Kim, H. J. Shin, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, 2103286; b) T. F. Li, T. Y. Lu, Y. Li, J. W. Yin, Y. W. Tang, M. Y. Zhang, H. Pang, L. Xu, J. Yang, Y. W. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *428*, 131094.
- [8] a) N. Jiang, Q. Tang, M. L. Sheng, B. You, D. E. Jiang, Y. J. Sun, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2016**, *6*, 1077; b) H. Q. Wang, W. J. Zhang, X. W. Zhang, S. X. Hu, Z. C. Zhang, W. J. Zhou, H. Liu, *Nano Res.* **2021**, *14*, 4857; c) F. Jing, Q. Y. Lv, J. Xiao, Q. J. Wang, S. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 14207.
- [9] a) S. Geng, Y. Q. Liu, Y. S. Yu, W. W. Yang, H. B. Li, *Nano Res.* **2020**, *13*, 121; b) G. Y. Zhou, Y. Chen, H. Dong, L. Xu, X. Liu, C. W. Ge, D. M. Sun, Y. W. Tang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2019**, *44*, 26338;

- c) W. J. Jiang, T. Tang, Y. Zhang, J. S. Hu, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2020**, *53*, 1111.
- [10] D. Liu, R. Tong, Y. J. Qu, Q. Zhu, X. W. Zhong, M. L. Fang, K. H. Lo, F. F. Zhang, Y. C. Ye, Y. X. Tang, S. Chen, G. C. Xing, H. Pan, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *267*, 118721.
- [11] L. Y. Zeng, Z. Liu, K. A. Sun, Y. J. Chen, J. C. Zhao, Y. J. Chen, Y. Pan, Y. K. Lu, Y. Q. Liu, C. G. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 25628.
- [12] J. Yin, J. Jin, H. Zhang, M. Lu, Y. Peng, B. L. Huang, P. X. Xi, C. H. Yan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 18676.
- [13] H. J. Liu, Q. He, H. L. Jiang, Y. X. Lin, Y. K. Zhang, M. Habib, S. M. Chen, L. Song, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 11574.
- [14] T. T. Wang, X. S. Guo, J. Y. Zhang, W. Xiao, P. X. Xi, S. L. Peng, D. Q. Gao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 4971.
- [15] L. H. Xie, D. K. Zhao, J. L. Dai, Z. X. Wu, L. G. Li, *Catalysts* **2019**, *9*, 458.
- [16] P. S. Li, X. P. Zhao, X. X. Duan, Y. P. Li, Y. Kuang, X. M. Sun, *Sci. China Mater.* **2020**, *63*, 356.
- [17] S. D. Guan, X. L. Fu, Z. Z. Lao, C. H. Jin, Z. J. Peng, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2019**, *3*, 2056.
- [18] C. Y. Li, M. D. Liu, H. Y. Ding, L. Q. He, E. Z. Wang, B. L. Wang, S. S. Fan, K. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 17527.
- [19] a) F. Guo, K. Ye, K. Cheng, G. L. Wang, D. X. Cao, *J. Power Sources* **2015**, *278*, 562; b) R. K. Singh, K. Rajavelu, M. Montag, A. Schechter, *Energy Technol.* **2021**, *9*, 2100017.
- [20] a) J. F. Xie, H. C. Qu, F. C. Lei, X. Peng, W. W. Liu, L. Gao, P. Hao, G. W. Cui, B. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 16121; b) W. X. Zhu, Z. H. Yue, W. T. Zhang, N. Hu, Z. T. Luo, M. R. Ren, Z. J. Xu, Z. Y. Wei, Y. R. Suo, J. L. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 4346; c) M. X. He, S. N. Hu, C. Q. Feng, H. M. Wu, H. K. Liu, H. Mei, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2020**, *45*, 23.
- [21] S. S. Huang, H. T. Wang, Y. Zhang, S. D. Wang, Z. W. Chen, Z. J. Hu, X. F. Qian, *RSC Adv.* **2018**, *8*, 5992.
- [22] a) X. Y. Yu, L. Yu, B. H. Wu, X. W. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 5331; b) S. S. Huang, Z. Q. Jin, P. Ning, C. Y. Gao, Y. Wu, X. Liu, P. J. Xin, Z. X. Chen, Y. Jiang, Z. J. Hu, Z. W. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, 127630.
- [23] C. Dai, B. Li, J. Li, B. Zhao, R. X. Wu, H. F. Ma, X. D. Duan, *Nano Res.* **2020**, *13*, 2506.
- [24] P. Luo, H. J. Zhang, L. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Deng, C. H. Xu, N. Hu, Y. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 2500.
- [25] a) X. Ma, M. Ma, D. N. Liu, S. Hao, F. L. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. P. Sun, *ChemCatChem* **2017**, *9*, 3138; b) T. C. An, Y. Wang, J. Tang, W. Wei, X. Q. Cui, A. M. Alenizi, L. J. Zhang, G. F. Zheng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 13439.
- [26] Y. J. Ruan, J. J. Jiang, H. Z. Wan, X. Ji, L. Miao, L. Peng, B. Zhang, L. Lv, J. Liu, *J. Power Sources* **2016**, *301*, 122.
- [27] N. Yang, C. Tang, K. Y. Wang, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. P. Sun, *Nano Res.* **2016**, *9*, 3346.
- [28] B. Dong, X. Zhao, G. Q. Han, X. Li, X. Shang, Y. R. Liu, W. H. Hu, Y. M. Chai, H. Zhao, C. G. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 13499.
- [29] a) J. Choi, D. Kim, W. R. Zheng, B. Y. Yan, Y. Li, L. Y. S. Lee, Y. Piao, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *286*, 119857; b) Z. Q. Xue, X. Li, Q. L. Liu, M. K. Cai, K. Liu, M. Liu, Z. F. Ke, X. L. Liu, G. Q. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900430; c) J. Zhang, T. Wang, D. Pohl, B. Rellinghaus, R. H. Dong, S. H. Liu, X. D. Zhuang, X. L. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6702.
- [30] Q. Y. Ma, C. Y. Hu, K. L. Liu, S. F. Hung, D. H. Ou, H. M. Chen, G. Fu, N. F. Zheng, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *41*, 148.
- [31] a) L. Y. Hu, X. Zeng, X. Q. Wei, H. J. Wang, Y. Wu, W. L. Gu, L. Shi, C. Z. Zhu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *273*, 119014; b) W. D. Zhang, Q. T. Hu, L. L. Wang, J. Gao, H. Y. Zhu, X. D. Yan, Z. G. Gu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *286*, 119906.
- [32] G. Y. Zhou, M. Li, Y. L. Li, H. Dong, D. M. Sun, X. Liu, L. Xu, Z. Q. Tian, Y. W. Tang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1905252.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

- [33] H. Xu, Y. Liao, Z. F. Gao, Y. Qing, Y. Q. Wu, L. Y. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 3418.
- [34] a) Y. Q. Feng, X. Wang, J. F. Huang, P. P. Dong, J. Ji, J. Li, L. Y. Cao, L. L. Feng, P. Jin, C. R. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *390*, 124525; b) Y. L. Sun, S. J. Wang, J. Q. Ning, Z. Y. Zhang, Y. J. Zhong, Y. Hu, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 991.
- [35] Y. Zhang, H. R. Guo, X. P. Li, J. Du, W. L. Ren, R. Song, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *404*, 126483.
- [36] C. C. Liu, Y. Han, L. B. Yao, L. M. Liang, J. Y. He, Q. Y. Hao, J. Zhang, Y. Li, H. Liu, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2007334.
- [37] Y. Yang, Y. K. Kang, H. H. Zhao, X. P. Dai, M. L. Cui, X. B. Luan, X. Zhang, F. Nie, Z. T. Ren, W. Y. Song, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1905083.
- [38] J. C. Liu, Y. Wang, Y. F. Liao, C. L. Wu, Y. G. Yan, H. J. Xie, Y. G. Chen, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 26948.
- [39] P. L. Zhai, Y. X. Zhang, Y. Z. Wu, J. F. Gao, B. Zhang, S. Y. Cao, Y. T. Zhang, Z. W. Li, L. C. Sun, J. G. Hou, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5462.