---
source: Janyasupab 等 - 2023 - Electrochemically Non-Enzymatic Urea Estimation in Human Dialysate Waste Using Indirect NiOOH-Urea O.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 79.056s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:56:53.053419Z
---

## Electrochemically Non-Enzymatic Urea Estimation in Human Dialysate Waste Using Indirect NiOOH-Urea Oxidation

To cite this article: Metini Janyasupab et al 2023 J. Electrochem. Soc. 170 057512

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/acd353) for updates and enhancements.

### You may also like

- [A high-accuracy measurement method of](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6501/aa87e4) [glucose concentration in interstitial fluid](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6501/aa87e4) [based on microdialysis](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6501/aa87e4) Dachao Li, Qingmei Xu, Yu Liu et al. -
- [Removal of endotoxin from deionized](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0960-1317/21/5/054029) [water using micromachined silicon](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0960-1317/21/5/054029) [nanopore membranes](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0960-1317/21/5/054029) Ross A Smith, Ken Goldman, William H Fissell et al. -
- (Invited[\)](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/MA2020-01411825mtgabs) [Electrooxidation of Urea and](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/MA2020-01411825mtgabs) [Creatinine on a Nickel Electrocatalyst](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/MA2020-01411825mtgabs) Eric M. Stuve and Kelly Carpenter -

This content was downloaded from IP address 222.195.81.63 on 06/01/2026 at 16:16

# Electrochemically Non-Enzymatic Urea Estimation in Human Dialysate Waste Using Indirect NiOOH-Urea Oxidation

Metini Janyasupab, <sup>1,z,\*</sup> Narawee Asavakijthananont, <sup>2</sup> Narong Chanlek, <sup>3</sup> Sirinart Chio-Srichan, <sup>3</sup> Yuan Zhang, <sup>4</sup> Werasak Surareungchai, <sup>5,6,7</sup> and Piyanart Sommani <sup>1</sup>

Non-enzymatic urea detection in human dialysate offers a sustainable and spontaneous platform for advanced analysis and monitoring. This study investigated urea estimation in dialysate by using an indirect urea oxidation of nickel on nitrogen doped carbon with an incorporation of surface roughness ( $R_f$ ) and double layer current ( $I_{cll}$ ). Fascinatingly, the second oxidation peak on (reverse) cathodic scan at 0.42 V vs Ag/AgC1 in cyclic voltammetry and the first peak of differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) after background subtraction were evidenced to the exploited NiOOH binding with urea, concurrently with the regeneration of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. In presence of more urea, the decreasing trends of the oxidation peaks in both techniques were observed and capable of determining urea concentrations in human dialysate. In consideration of actual reaction current, the measured total current after background subtraction in fresh simulated dialysate provides the sensitivity of  $-5.136 \times 10^{-5}$  A.mM<sup>-1</sup> ( $R^2 = 0.998$ ) and limit of detection of  $60.2 \,\mu\text{M}$  in 1–5 mM linear range. For validation in patients' dialysate, the total current peak was normalized by  $R_f$  and subtracted from  $I_{cll}$ , resulting in excellent urea estimation with recovery percentage between 99.18 and 102.68 in comparison to that of clinical standard, offering future prognostic monitoring and wearable artificial kidney.

© 2023 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited. [DOI: 10.1149/1945-7111/acd353] All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.

Manuscript submitted January 25, 2023; revised manuscript received April 11, 2023. Published May 18, 2023.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) need a dedicated health monitoring and nutrition management to maintain their declining kidney functions. Recently, Center of Disease Control and Prevention reported in 2021 that more than 15% of adults (37 million people) in the US are estimated to have CKD. More importantly, 10% of global population (approximately 800 million people) has been affected by CKD, causing long-term health burdens, especially in low and middle income countries.2 Not only an early detection, but also a practical estimation of treatment adequacy can crucially increase life expectancy, accurately provide a warning sign of disease, and ultimately offer a better quality of life on a daily basis. For a clinical standard, diagnosis and prognosis of CKD underline the values of glomerulus filtration rate (GFR), which can be expressed by measurement of serum creatinine, serum urea nitrogen (BUN), including other endogenous markers such as beta-trace protein, cystatin-C, and microalbumin.<sup>3,4</sup> If GFR estimation is less than 15%, most patients need to routinely undergo either hemodialysis (HD) or peritoneal dialysis (PD). In general, HD is performed 2-3 times a week in a hospital, whereas, PD is operated daily at home, in remote areas, and for patients with limited mobility. Technically, there are two types of PD: automated (APD) with an overnight cycling process and continuous ambulatory PD (CAPD) allowing the patients to undergo a sequentially quadruple 30 min treatment course in each day. To estimate GFR in any types of dialysis, primary indicators of BUN-creatinine ratio and Urea Reduction Ratio (URR) are measured by collecting blood and acquired from machine's parameters (in the case of HD) such as urea clearance in dialyzer (K), dialysis time (t), and urea distribution volume (V) to calculate the value of Kt/V, corresponding to logarithmic function between initial and final time dependent concentrations of urea.<sup>5,6</sup> Unlike HD, both types of PD do not have any systematic sensors at all. In fact, APD machine is fundamentally based on cycler mechanics, and, CAPD relies only upon a manual operation from gravity and fluid diffusion.<sup>7</sup> Thus,

determination of dialysis adequacy mainly depends on kinetic estimations of physiological kidney's models, of which suffer from the lack of actual urea sensors, and indeed become a vital challenge for optimizing body waste removal process.

Strategical developments of actual urea measurement in blood serum, dialyzer, or dialysate waste can practically improve the current dialysis adequacy estimation paradigm. Recent advances of urea detections in wastewater managements, 8.9 food industries, 10,11 as well as biomedical applications <sup>12–15</sup> have been extensively demonstrated in neutral and alkaline electrolyte. 16-18 In particular, two primary approaches based on optical and electrochemical measurements, such as liquid chromatography, <sup>19</sup> Fourier Transform Infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), <sup>5,20,21</sup> Raman spectroscopy, <sup>22</sup> chemiluminescence, <sup>23</sup> ion-selective electrode, <sup>24</sup> amperometry, <sup>14,18,25,26</sup> impedimetry, <sup>27</sup> and voltammetry<sup>11,28</sup> have been widely reported performances of urea detection in aqueous solution or human physiological waste. For example of optical based detection in dialysate, Jensen et al. incorporated FTIR with urease to determine urea concentration up to 10 mM in human spent dialysate during dialysis, in the mid infrared range of 1500–1000 cm<sup>-1</sup>. Interestingly, Swati et al. synthesized encapsulated calcium alginate and cresol red dye microspheres, coated with urease and polyelectrolyte nanofilms layer-by-layer to quantify urea concentrations from 0.1-60 mg.dL<sup>-1</sup> in spent dialysate, by using fiber optic spectrometer at 520 nm wavelength in flow cell analysis.<sup>29</sup> Unlike optical detection, electrochemical based approach offers a robust, affordable, and portable platform with various designs. For instance, Zhybak et al. investigated the use of novel ammonium ion-specific copper-polyaniline for developing a urease-based biosensor, exhibiting an excellent sensitivity of 112 mA.M<sup>-1</sup>.cm<sup>-2</sup> for urea oxidation in serum.<sup>30</sup> For a continuous flow measurement, Kim et al. reported a chronoamperometric screen-printed electrode in peritoneal dialysate, using immobilized urease on porous silk fibroin membrane, with a clinically significant range of 0.1–20 mM urea.<sup>31</sup> Furthermore, the study of Bonini et al. recently demonstrated a real-time potentiometric monitoring of urea in patients' dialysate by incorporating reduced graphene oxide layer functionalized with 4-amino benzoic acid and

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup>School of Engineering, King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, Bangkok, 10520, Thailand

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup>Zensorium Thailand Ltd, Khlong Toei, Bangkok 10110, Thailand

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup>Synchrotron Light Research Institute, Nakhon Ratchasima, 30000, Thailand

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup>Materials Genome Institute, Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, People's Republic of China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup>School of Bioresources and Technology, King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi, Bangkok, 10150, Thailand <sup>6</sup>Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Graduate Program, Faculty of Science, King Mongkut's University of Technology

Thonburi, Bangkok, 10140, Thailand

Analytical Sciences and National Doping Test Institute, Mahidol University, Ratchathewi, Bangkok 10400, Thailand

<sup>\*</sup>Electrochemical Society Member.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>z</sup>E-mail: metini.ja@kmitl.ac.th

<span id="page-2-2"></span>**Schematic 1.** Detection mechanisms of indirect urea oxidation on Ni/NC Ni/NC, respectively.

urease.<sup>32</sup> It was important to note that dialysate is freely disposable from dialysis, however, most studies incorporate urease, whose intrinsic properties of enzyme instability and loss of activities occur during immobilization process, and, become extremely sensitive to environmental factors such as pH, humidity, and protein interaction.<sup>33,34</sup> For the past decade, only a few studies of enzyme-free urea detection in dialysate have been reported. For example, Hayashi et al. reported a novel non-enzymatic chemiluminescence based biosensor using hypobromite reagent to determine urea concentration in spent dialysate within the detection range of 2–25 mg.dL<sup>-1</sup> and 3% accuracy.<sup>23</sup> On the other hand, non-enzymatic electrochemical detection primarily relies on urea oxidation reaction (UOR). For instance, an incorporation of protonated pyrrole with sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) as supporting electrolyte could reduce ammonia, the product of urea addition in water, resulting in a good electrochemical performance with sensitivity of  $1.11 \,\mu\text{A}.\mu\text{M}^{-1}\text{cm}^{-2}$ , limit of detection of 40  $\mu$ M, and linear range of 80–1440  $\mu$ M by using amperometric and impedimetric methods.<sup>27</sup> Further enhancements of non-enzymatic detection can be found by employing several metals such as Pt, 35,3 Co,<sup>37</sup> Mo,<sup>15,38</sup> Ni<sup>39–43</sup> and their combinations, exhibiting highly electrocatalytic activities of urea hydrolysis or urea oxidation in acid, neural, and basic aqueous solution for a practical UOR in a wide physiological range.

Among these catalyst candidates, Ni was considered as the most favorable non-precious metals of UOR, due to the outperformed activity and durability in alkaline electrolyte. 17,44-46 In particular, Ni has been of great interest in hydrogen evolution reactions of energy storage, and water splitting for environmental applications.<sup>47</sup> Furthermore, recent incorporating Co, Mo, Fe metals or doping nitrogen with Ni can facilitate electron transfer and active site of NiOOH (Ni<sup>3+</sup>) formation, thereby electrocatalytically promoting urea oxidation reactions. It was fascinatingly reported that N containing carbon materials could remarkably promote UOR by weakening the binding strength of intermediate CO<sub>2</sub> poisoning surface, as demonstrated by using Ni/embedded N doped carbon nanotube to detect 0.5 M urea in 0.1 M KOH, outperforming more than 3.8 fold than that of Pt electrode. Similarly, incorporating N doped single-walled carbon nanotube (SWCNT) with silver nanoparticles can also non-enzymatically enhance UOR with the sensitivity of 141  $\mu$ A. $\mu$ M<sup>-1</sup>cm<sup>-2</sup> in the range of 66 nM to 20.6 mM urea in tap water and milk samples. 11,49 Mechanistically, UOR in nonenzymatic detection depends upon oxyhydroxide surface formation on Ni surface in the form of Ni(OH)2/Ni(OOH), also known as Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> redox pair. Demonstrated by the study of Botte et al., UOR on Ni(OH)2/Ni(OOH) at anode could directly convert urea in urine and generate pure hydrogen gas at cathode, with the cell potential of 1.4 V.<sup>10,50</sup> In addition, further theoretical work by Vedharathinam et al. showed the role of Ni catalyst toward electrocatalytic activities after permeated by hydroxyl or oxide groups, involved in possible pathways (1) and (2) as written below. With an indirect UOR mechanism, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is electrochemically converted to the active urea binding sites, NiOOH as shown as process (A) in Schematic 1. Under voltametric waveform sweeping, NiOOH can be reduced to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> by urea and repeat the cycle for the regeneration of active sites in process (B) of Schematic 1. Overall, the net reaction at anode is illustrated as (3).<sup>51</sup>

<span id="page-2-1"></span><span id="page-2-0"></span>
$$6Ni(OH)_2(s) + 6OH^- \rightleftharpoons 6NiOOH(s)$$
  
+  $6H_2O(l) + 6e^-$  [1]

$$6Ni(OOH)(s) + CO(NH_2)_2(aq)$$
  
+  $H_2O(l) \rightarrow 6Ni(OH)_2(s)$   
+  $N_2(g) + CO_2(g)$  [2]

$$CO(NH_2)_2(aq) + 6OH^- \rightarrow N_2(g) + 6H_2O(l) + CO_2(g) + 6e^-$$
 [3]

<span id="page-2-3"></span>Elaborated study by Miao et al. also explained electrocatalysis of active site NiOOH formation, achieved by a full oxidation of positive potential sweeping on Ni, NiO or two polymorphous crystal structures of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, namely,  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in basic solution. Under dehydration in alkaline solution,  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> turns into  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, and catalytically converted into  $\gamma$ -NiOOH and  $\beta$ -NiOOH, respectively during the charging mode. However, both forms can be oxidized to  $\gamma$ -NiOOH and  $\alpha$ -NiOOH at a high potential of 0.45 V vs Hg/HgO or above. 33 If overcharging occurs,  $\beta$ -NiOOH is then transformed backed into  $\gamma$ -NiOOH, and subsequently returning to  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in the discharge mode.<sup>33</sup> Similarly, an experimental study by Nguyen et al. demonstrated a highly sensitive urea-based sensor using NiO/cellulose/carbon nanotube composite to confirm the role of Ni with enhancement of nitrogen doping on supporting material of Ni surface.<sup>52</sup> The developments of nitrogen doped nanoporous carbon materials have also been proven high specific areas, enriched porous surface, and enhanced catalytic activities toward oxygen reduction reaction in alkaline solution. 45,53 More interestingly, the synthesized Ni on N doped carbon nanotube (Ni@NCNT) by Zhang et al. showed the more nitrogen dopant facilitates active sites formation and favors UOR catalytic activities, thereby easily facilitating desorption of CO2 and resulting in more available Ni for regeneration.<sup>54</sup> However, multiple phases of Ni oxide layer cause various electroanalytical results of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/NiOOH pathways with non-fully established knowledge of intermediate, adsorption, and kinetics toward practical non-enzymatic urea detection in human dialysate. In addition, the exchanged constituents in dialysate between pre and post treatment of each patient varies each day, causing unpredictable background and difficulty in translation. In this work, a strategic estimation technique of indirect UOR on sustainable Ni supported N-doped highly activated carbon (NC) was investigated. Experimental cyclic voltammetry (CV) and differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) in simulated dialysate were assessed to explore electrocatalytic behaviors and construct the linear calibration plot. By exploiting electrochemical active surface area (Aec), roughness of Ni hydroxyl surface  $(R_f)$ , and double layer current  $(I_{dl})$ , the versatile and highly accurate urea estimation in human dialysate could be translated from the calibration plot, solving the problem of background subtraction in indirect UOR, minimizing environmental factors, and resulting in comparable urea quantification with that of clinical standard method. Furthermore, material characterizations including TEM, XPS, FTIR, XRD and relevant electrochemical characterizations were extensively carried out. Ultimately, this proposed method could be employed into practical monitoring of prognostic dialysis, treatment

adequacy estimation, and further advancement of wearable artificial kidney.

#### **Experimental**

Chemicals and reagents.—Nickel (II) chloride hexahydrate (NiCl<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.9%), hydrazine monohydrate (N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>.H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%), polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, molecular weight of 40,000), Nafion (5% w/v) and Ethylene glycol (EG) were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. Vulcan XC72 (Cabot) and melamine (99%, Sigma-Aldrich) were used to synthesize nitrogen doped carbon support. In a typical experiment, fresh simulated hemodialysate solution was prepared byfollowing clinical standard in S1 (Supplemental). Furthermore, sodium hydroxide (NaOH, 97.0%, Univar), potassium ferricyanide (K<sub>3</sub>Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>, 99.0% Univar), potassium ferrocyanide (K<sub>4</sub>Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>.3H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.0% Univar), urea (99%, Sigma-Aldrich), glucose (d-glucose anhydrous, 99.0%, Univar) and uric acid (UA, 99%, Sigma-Aldrich) were used to promote hydroxyl layer and evaluate A<sub>ec</sub>, including to quantify electrochemical performances and anti-inference properties. All chemicals were of analytical grade and used as received.

Synthesis of Ni nanowire/NC catalyst.—Ni nanowire was synthesized based on an assisted PVP-hydrazine reduction method. Initially, 0.3 g of PVP wad dissolved in EG (15 ml), followed by adding 75  $\mu$ l of 1 M Ni precursor into the mixture. After 15 min stirring, the solution was then heated to 100 °C for 10 min, and subsequently added hydrazine solution (0.5 ml, 6.5 mM) dropwise. The process will gradually precipitate black Ni nanowire. Afterwards, Ni wire was repeatedly removed residues by washing with ethanol/acetone and centrifuging at 8,000 rpm for 3-4 times. Finally, Ni wire was collected and dried at 80 °C for 12 h. To functionalize nitrogen doped in carbon, 0.6 g of melamine as N source was dissolved in 30 ml DI water, and sonicated for 30 min. By continuously stirring, the mixture was added 0.15 g of Vulcan XC72 and sonicated for 30 min, 60 °C. To form nitrogen doped carbon by hydrothermal reduction, the mixture was loaded into a Teflon-line autoclave and heated at 200 °C for 18 h. After cooling down at room temperature, NC was washed with ethanol and centrifuged at 8,000 rpm, repeatedly for 3-4 times. For catalyst preparation, Ni wire solution (containing about 17.8 mg Ni) was mixed with 26.7 mg of ground NC dissolved in ethanol, then stirred, sonicated for 30 min, and dried at 80 °C for 12 h. For each electrode fabrication, 2.5 mg of Ni catalyst (40% wt. loading) was dissolved in  $100 \,\mu l$  ethanol and  $25 \,\mu l$  of 5% Nafion solution. After 30 min sonication,  $2 \mu l$  of the ink mixture was drop-casted onto the GCE electrode (Ni loading of 509.6  $\mu$ g.cm<sup>-2</sup>).

*Material characterization.*—Morphological images, elemental compositions, surface compositions, and phase patterns of Ni/NC were characterized by Field Emission Transmission Electron Microscopy (FETEM, JEM-3100F, Japan), Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FESEM, JEOL, JSM-7610F, USA), Selected Area Electron Diffraction (SAED), Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy (EDS, Oxford Instrument, X-Max 20), X-ray diffraction (XRD, Rigaku, Japan, Cu k $\alpha$ ,  $\lambda = 1.5406$  Å, 40 kV, 30 mA, 10° per min, 0.2° of step width), and X-ray Photoemission Spectroscopy (XPS, PHI 5000 Versa Probe II, Japan). In addition, Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR, Shimadzu IRPrestige-21, Japan) was used to verify chemical bonds and interaction of urea detection by Ni/NC.

 $\label{eq:characterization.} \emph{Electrochemical} \quad \emph{characterization.} \emph{—} \textit{Potentiostat} \quad (eDAQ, ER466, Australia) and glassy rotating disk electrode (RDE, diameter of 2 cm, BVT Technologies, Czech Republic) were used to assess cyclic voltammetry (CV) and differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) to find <math>I_{dl}$ ,  $A_{ec}$ , and urea measurements. Experimentally, a three-electrode system of modified Ni/NC on RDE working electrode, Pt auxiliary electrode (model RRPG257PT, Pine Research, USA), and Ag/AgCl reference electrode (model RRPEAGCL, Pine Research,

USA) was employed at 900 rpm speed to study kinetics of nonenzymatic urea detection. Prior to experiments, an electrochemical pretreatment of 50 cycle-CV from 0 to 1.2 V at 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> was applied on Ni/NC with 0.5 M NaOH supporting electrolyte for surface cleaning and formulating active Ni hydroxyl layer. To determine I<sub>dl</sub>, CV of Ni/NC from -0.35 to -0.05 V vs Ag/AgCl in potassium hydroxide solution (KOH) was assessed by varying scan rates. In addition, CV of Ni/NC in 10 mM K<sub>3</sub>Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>/K<sub>4</sub>Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub> supporting with 0.5 M KOH was carried out to estimate Aec and Rf based on Randle-Sevcik equation. For optimal non-enzymatic urea estimation, 2.375 ml of dialysate was added with 2.625 ml of 0.95 M NaOH (2.5 mmol) to achieve 0.5 M supporting electrolyte in total volume of 5 ml in this work. CV and DPV of Ni/NC in fresh dialysate in successive addition of urea corresponding from 0.25 to 25 mM concentrations were investigated to study indirect UOR behaviors and estimate the calibration equation. To validate this method, patients' spent dialysate samples were obtained from Srirattanakosin Hemodialysis Center, Bangkok, Thailand. Finally, the results of DPV in human dialysate were normalized by R<sub>f</sub> and subtracted from I<sub>dl</sub> to predict urea in comparison to clinical standard, using a urease/ glutamate dehydrogenase enzymatic detection.<sup>13</sup> Furthermore, antiinterfence, and stability studies were also extensively carried out in dialysate solution.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Morphological and bulk-elemental characterizations.— Scalable and highly effective synthesis of PVP-hydrazine reduction provided successful Ni nanowire as shown in Fig. 1A. By incorporating into hydrothermal NC support, Fig. 1B indicates noticeably random Ni clusters of wiring network onto a high surface area of porous N doped carbon. High resolution FESEM images in Figs. 1C and 1D also illustrate the morphological detail of Ni wire and Ni/NC cluster with the approximate width and length of 120 nm and 4–6  $\mu$ m, respectively. In addition, EDS mapping of Ni nanowire and Ni-NC indicate thoroughly elemental compositions of Ni (red) and C (green) as shown in Figs. 1E and 1F, respectively. Furthermore, EDS spectra also provide the estimated values of 92.78 wt% and 72.45 at% of pure Ni nanowire shown in Fig. 1G. Similarly, Ni and C elemental composition percentage of 38.55 and 61.45 in weight was evaluated by EDS spectra in Fig. 1F, verifying successful 40% Ni metal loading on NC. It was also noted that there were two instrumental EDS signals at 0.5 and 1.5 keV in Figs. 1G and 1F, corresponding to the oxygen (O) in the chamber and aluminum (Al) sample stage, respectively. To further investigate atomic features of Ni, FETEM images also confirm morphological wiring network of Ni clusters shown in Figs. 2A and 2B. As illustrated in Fig. 2C, higher resolution of FETEM exhibits the lattice fringes of 0.125, 0.176, and 0.203 nm, representing crystalized plane of Ni(220), Ni(200), and Ni(111), respectively. Moreover, the analysis of SAED reveals the ring patterns of Ni(111), Ni(200), Ni(220), and Ni(311), indicating the existence of preferential Ni active sites (Ni111) and Ni(200), potentially forming Ni hydroxyl layer surface as nanozyme for urea detection. This finding agrees with the powder XRD results of NC, Ni, and Ni/NC, indexed by ICDD# 01-08-7533 (Ni) and ICDD#00-028-0064(C). As shown in Fig. 3, XRD pattern of Ni/NC peaks are located at 25.4, 44.33, 51.70, and 76.16 in degree of 2-thetha, corresponding to C(002), Ni (111), Ni(200), Ni(220), respectively. It was also noted that the second peak represented C(100) of NC at 43.10 degree and submerged into Ni(111) plane of Ni/NC sample, resulting in a slightly increase of peak intensity. Overall, d-spacing in the highresolution FETEM, the SAED pattern, and the XRD analysis were essentially evidenced to active binding sites: Ni(111) and Ni(200) by using this synthesis method.

Surface-elemental and chemical characterizations.—Further surface analysis of elemental characterization provides more insightful information of Ni/NC catalytic properties. Prior to XPS

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 1. (A)–(B) FESEM; (C)–(D) HR-FESEM; (E)–(F) EDS mapping; (G)–(H) EDS spectra of Ni and Ni/NC, respectively.

measurements, all samples of pure NC and Ni/NC were collected by scratching the catalyst ink on RDE after performing each typical test of electrochemical pretreatment and DPV measurement under the specified conditions: either in absence or presence of urea (5 mM).

Additionally, the condition of 10 mM urea detection was also performed to confirm the response of urea in Ni/NC. Furthermore, all samples were dropcasted on clean silicon wafer substrate and sealed to protect air exposure before XPS analysis. As shown in

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 2. (A)-(B) FETEM, (C) HR-FETEM and (D) SAED images of Ni nanowires.

<span id="page-5-1"></span>Figure 3. XRD patterns of Ni/NC, Ni, and NC, respectively.

Figs. 4A-4E, XPS spectra of C1s in 5 comparative conditions of pure NC, Ni/NC, pure NC with 5 mM urea, Ni/NC with 5 mM urea, and Ni/NC with 10 mM urea in simulated dialysate were carried out. For all samples, five deconvoluted peaks of C1s were presented at 284.6, 285.3, 286.3, 288.6,and 290 eV,corresponding to  $C=C \text{ (sp}^2),$ C-C (sp<sup>3</sup>), C-O-C or C-OH or C-NH, O=C-O, and shake-up excitation peak on sp<sup>2</sup> carbon, respectively. 45,55 Noticeably, addition of urea in both NC and Ni/NC reveals another peak, located at 287.7 eV, attributed to N-C-O. In addition, the more urea concentration, the more growing of N-C-O and O-C=O bonding and more excitation peak at sp<sup>2</sup> carbon was observed. It was also clearly shown that more bonding interaction of urea pronounced in Ni/NC than that of NC alone, implying enhanced detection by incorporating Ni catalyst. As shown in Fig. 5, XPS spectra and deconvoluted peaks of Ni2p in pure Ni, Ni/NC, pure Ni with 5 mM urea, Ni/NC with 5 mM urea, and Ni/NC with 10 mM are presented, respectively. After electrochemical pretreatment and DPV measurement, all samples reveal two primary peaks, located at 855.9 and 874.1 eV, attributed to  $\mathrm{Ni}^{3+}_{2\mathrm{p}3/2}$  and  $\mathrm{Ni}^{3+}_{2\mathrm{p}1/2}$  with their satellite peaks. This evidence provided important information of catalytically active binding site (NiOOH) on both pure Ni and Ni/NC for urea detection in dialysate. Remarkedly, the initial peaks in Figs. 5A and 5B,

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. XPS spectra and deconvoluted curves of C1s with (A) pure NC, (B) Ni/NC, (C) pure NC with 5 mM urea, (D) Ni/NC with 5 mM urea, and (E) Ni/NC with 10 mM urea in dialysate.

<span id="page-6-1"></span>Figure 5. XPS spectra and deconvoluted curves of Ni2p with (A) pure Ni, (B) Ni/NC, (C) pure Ni with 5 mM urea, (D) Ni/NC with 5 mM urea, and (E) Ni/NC with 10 mM urea in dialysate.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 6. FTIR spectra of (A) Ni/NC in the presence and absence of urea; (B) the narrow band from 1300 to 900 cm-1 of four catalysts: Ni, Ni/NC, Ni/C, C in the presence and absence of urea; (C) the narrow band from 1300 to 900 cm-1 of Ni/NC in CKD patients' dialysate samples in comparison with those of urea responses in simulated dialysate.

identified at 853.7 and 871 eV (denoted in brown and light green), corresponded to Ni $^{2+}$ 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Ni $^{2+}$ 2p<sub>1/2</sub>, respectively, confirming the existence of Ni $^{2+}$  formation as only presented in absence of urea.  $^{56}$  Therefore, Ni $^{2+}$  was completely converted to Ni $^{3+}$  and became active sites to bind with urea molecules in dialysate after urea addition. Furthermore, the effect of nitrogen doping of Ni/NC compared with NC was examined in XPS N1s spectra shown in Fig. S1 in Supplemental, confirming the existence of pyridinic (N-6) and pyrrolic (N-5) nitrogen group in aromatic  $\pi$  system at 398.9 and 400.3 eV, respectively.  $^{53}$  It was commonly known that the pyridinic N promotes the role of strong electron donor to enhance electrocatalytic activities, pseudocapacitance effects, wettability, and hydrophilicity on the surface.  $^{45,49,57}$ 

To investigate chemical interactions, all catalyst samples: pure C, pure Ni, 40% catalyst loading Ni/C and 40% catalyst loading Ni/NC, were tested either in absence or presence of 2 mM urea, then scratched from the RDE after each DPV measurement in simulated dialysate. In addition, Ni/NC catalyst samples after DPV tests of patients' dialysate were also collected and analyzed. In the attenuated total reflected (ATR) mode of FTIR model Shimadzu IRPrestige-21, each collected catalyst sample was dropcasted onto the single-bounced ATR ZnSe prism sample holder (standard model MIRacle A), capable of liquid and powder sample analysis. Figure 6 illustrates FTIR spectra of pure C, pure Ni, Ni/C and Ni/NC under several conditions. As shown in Fig. 6A, the results of 40% loading Ni/NC in presence and absence of 2 mM urea are shown in the wide scan of 4,000 to 500 cm<sup>-1</sup> in wavenumber. In both samples, the O–H absorptions were presented in the range of 3,600-3,000 and 1,630 cm<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, contributed to the hydroxyl formation on Ni surface. Prior to the C-O stretching region at 1087 cm<sup>-1</sup>,5,20 there were two distinguish shoulder peaks at 1161 and 1130 cm<sup>-1</sup> indicating the effect of urea addition on Ni/NC. As shown in Fig. 6B (left inset), the shoulder peaks were absent in most samples, except for pure Ni and Ni/NC in presence of 2 mM urea denoted in blue and red, respectively. This vibration of C-O in the presence of urea could also be further observed in metal oxide region at approximately 952 cm<sup>-1</sup> as shown in Fig. 6B (right-inset), confirming the strong evidence of nanozyme to bind with urea in dialysate. Furthermore, urea in human spent dialysate of Patient A, B, and C after DPV assessment was examined in Fig. 9C, whose insets similarly show existence of shoulder peaks in C-O stretching and metal oxide region. The results of Ni/NC for urea detection in human dialysate samples were strongly in agreement with that of Ni/NC with urea in simulated dialysate, implying the important role of Ni supported NC for catalytic interaction with urea. In consideration of electrocatalytic oxidation in 1, the active sites of NiOOH can bind with urea as described in 2 and generate the regenerated Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> as well as CO2 intermediates. While the former species provides an advantage for more available active sites in the next catalyst cycle, the latter species competitively becomes poisoning on Ni surface. In addition, the urea in alkaline media will also bind with hydroxyl group and generate CO<sub>2</sub> intermediates as illustrated in 3. Therefore, the incorporation of NC can modulate the electronic configuration of Ni system for weakening the binding strength of CO<sub>2</sub> intermediates. Consequently, the desorption of CO<sub>2</sub> is accelerated, and more available Ni(OOH) active sites in catalytic cycle can interact with urea molecules. 49 Based on the evidence of XPS and FTIR spectra, it was confidently proved that the contribution of electrocatalytic Ni active sites and urea binding occurs in this study.

**Proposed urea estimation in human dialysate.**—In this study, our investigation proposed a practical estimation of urea measurement by using the actual NiOOH-urea reaction current from indirect UOR during Ni active site/urea interaction and Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> regeneration in human dialysate waste. As commonly known, the so-called linear calibration plot of total current (I<sub>tot</sub>) and urea concentrations

<span id="page-8-4"></span>Figure 7. CV of Ni/NC with 0.5 M KOH in presence and absence of 10 mM potassium ferri-ferro cyanide; (B) CV of Ni/NC with 0.5 M KOH and 10 mM ferri-ferro cyanide at various scan rates from 0.10 to  $0.90 \text{ V s}^{-1}$ ; (C) Peak analysis of  $\text{Fe}^{2+/3+}$ ; (D) Peak analysis of  $\text{Ni}^{2+/3+}$ .

<span id="page-8-0"></span>(x<sub>urea</sub>) in the unit of A and mM, respectively is presented in Eq. 4:

$$I_{tot} = mx_{urea} + c$$
 [4]

where m and c correspond to sensitivity and interception of theoretical zero concentration of urea, respectively. In general, Itot can be obtained from peak current in voltammetry or steady-state current in amperometry. Based on the properties of Ni hydroxyl formation, Ni is associated with charging and discharging in various polymorphic forms:  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>,  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>,  $\beta$ -NiOOH, and  $\gamma$ -NiOOH, and becomes electrocatalytically active in both redox pairs of Ni<sup>1+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup>. The quantities and phases of Ni redox pairs also depend on adjusting the ratio of hydroxyl concentration and synthesizing suitable Ni phase. Due to implementation of voltametric waveform inevitably causing on-going capacitive current, two concurrent processes of Ni3+/Ni2+ conversion and competitively active Ni3+ urea interaction occur in UOR. More pronouncing effects of this phenomenon can be observed in presence of several electroactive species such as Na<sup>+</sup>, K<sup>+</sup>, Cl<sup>+</sup>, Mg<sup>+</sup>, glucose, and pH, contributed to unpredicted background current in electrochemical measurements. Therefore, the background subtraction is commonly used to reveal the actual response. However, if the background become significantly larger than the response signal, detection in real specimen becomes difficult to implement. In this work, our strategic estimation method has proposed three important factors, involved with  $A_{ec}$ ,  $R_{f}$ , and  $I_{dl}$  to modify the linear calibration for urea determination in human dialysate waste. Initially, the sensitivity value of m is denoted as  $m_{fresh}$  and calculated based on the background subtracted total current of DPV in fresh simulated dialysate. Unlike the fresh dialysate, human spent dialysate has <span id="page-8-1"></span>already consisted of urea with various constituents for each patient, causing unpredictable environmental background and difficult for data analysis. As a result, the kinetic data of total current in human dialysate can be divided by unitless  $R_{\rm f}$  to reflect the actual kinetic oxidation current on Ni active sites surface as the normalized total current ( $I_{\rm normalized,total}$ ) shown in Eq. 5.

$$I_{\text{normalized, total}} = \frac{I_{\text{total}}}{R_{\text{f}}}$$
 [5]

$$A_{ec} = R_f A_g$$
 [6]

$$I_{p} = (2.69 \times 10^{5} \text{n}^{\frac{3}{2}} \text{D}^{\frac{1}{2}} \text{C}) A_{ec} v^{1/2}$$
 [7]

<span id="page-8-3"></span><span id="page-8-2"></span>To determine  $R_f$  in Eq. 6, the value of  $A_{ec}$  is estimated based Randle-Sevik equation on the reduction of  $[Fe(CN)_6]^{3-}$  to  $[Fe(CN)_6]^{4-}$  in CV assessment as an effective method for  $A_{ec}$  determination. <sup>27,59,60</sup> As shown in Eq. 7,  $A_{ec}$  can be quantified by calculating the slope of calibration plot between the reduction peak current of  $K_4Fe(CN)_6/K_3Fe(CN)_6$  redox couple  $(I_p)$  and the square root of scan rate  $(v^{1/2})$  with the known values of  $n^{3/2}$ , C, and  $D^{1/2}$  corresponding to number of electron transfer (n), ferri/ferrocyanide concentration (C) and diffusion coefficient (D), respectively, with the listed values in Table SII (Supplemental).

Furthermore,  $I_{\rm dl}$  is considered as true zero concentration baseline of reaction current prior to Ni redox formation and urea interaction. Unlike the linear calibration plot of DPV in simulated fresh dialysate, the real specimen contains unknown urea concentrations

<span id="page-9-1"></span>Figure 8. Determination of double layer current of Ni/NC; (inset) cyclic voltammogram at double layer region from −0.35 to −0.05 V in 0.5 M KOH with various scan rates from 0.025–0.35 V s−<sup>1</sup> .

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 9. (A) CV of Ni/NC in simulated dialysate from 0 to 25 mM urea concentration at 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , (B) label peaks of Ni redox pairs with increasing urea, (C) DPV of Ni/NC in simulated dialysate and (D) background subtracted current profile with (inset).

<span id="page-10-5"></span>Figure 10. Results of patients' waste dialysate showing (A) CV, (B)–(D) DPV, (E) subtracted double layer current DPV, and (F) estimated urea concentration of 3 individuals with 5 separate trials.

with no background for subtraction. In addition, the interception of the calibration plot cannot be used due to the calculation is based on the background subtracted results. Therefore,  $I_{\rm dl}$  of Ni in alkaline electrolyte is incorporated and used for background subtraction instead. As shown in Eq. 8,  $I_{\rm dl}$  can be found by averaging forward  $(I_{\rm forward})$  and reverse  $(I_{\rm reverse})$  capacitive current of CV at double layer region, particularly in the negative potential range with various scan rates, illustrated as follows:

$$I_{dl} = 0.5(I_{forward} + I_{reverse})$$
 [8]

<span id="page-10-1"></span><span id="page-10-0"></span>Finally,  $I_{\text{dl}}$  is subtracted from  $I_{\text{normalized,total}}$  to deduct the charge associated contribution, providing the result of actual reaction current ( $I_{\text{reaction}}$ ) in Eq. 9 and re-written Eq. 4 as shown in Eq. 10.

$$I_{reaction} = I_{normalized, total} - I_{dl}$$
 [9]

$$I_{\text{normalized total}} = m_{\text{fresh}} x_{\text{urea}} + I_{\text{dl}}$$
 [10]

<span id="page-10-2"></span>Due to  $I_{dl}$  is much greater than  $I_{normalized,total}$ ,  $I_{reaction}$  is, therefore, less than zero and proportional to the urea concentration expressed in Eq. 11, which in turn, is in agreement of the negative value of

<span id="page-10-3"></span>sensitivity by  $\mathrm{Ni}^{3+}$ /urea interaction in fresh simulated dialysate ( $\mathrm{m}_{\mathrm{fresh}}$ ), and ultimately re-written the estimated urea concentration ( $\mathrm{X}_{\mathrm{rea}}$ ) in human spent dialysate as described in Eq. 12.

$$I_{reaction} = m_{fresh} X_{urea}$$
 [11]

$$X_{urea} = \frac{(I_{normalized, total} - I_{dl})}{m_{fresh}}$$
 [12]

<span id="page-10-4"></span>Determination of R<sub>f</sub> and A<sub>ec</sub>

As previously discussed, the reduction of  $[Fe(CN)_6]^{3-}$  to  $[Fe(CN)_6]^{4-}$  can be used to quantify electrochemical surface area. As shown in Fig. 7, a comparison of CV measurements of Ni/NC in KOH in presence and absence of  $K_4Fe(CN)_6$  and  $K_3Fe(CN)_6$  demonstrates the redox peak current. In Fig. 7A, CV of Ni/NC (black) provides evidence of Ni<sup>1+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> redox pair, indicating submerged oxidation and reduction peaks at 0.658 V and 0.578 V, respectively. More prominently, Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> redox pair can be clearly observed oxidation and reduction peaks at 0.776 and 0.704 V, respectively. In addition of 10 mM  $K_4Fe(CN)_6$  and  $K_3Fe(CN)_3$ , the strong electron transfer  $Fe^{2+}/Fe^{3+}$  redox peaks are

<span id="page-11-0"></span>Table I. Comparison of estimated urea concentrations from dialysate waste and clinical results in five separate trials (n = 5) for each patient.

| Patients | Clinical result urea (mM) | This work's estimation urea (mM) | Recovery (%) | RSD (%) n = 5 |  |
|----------|---------------------------|----------------------------------|--------------|---------------|--|
| A        | 2.470                     | 2.480                            | 100.40       | 1.27          |  |
| В        | 2.985                     | 3.065                            | 102.68       | 0.40          |  |
| C        | 1.564                     | 1.551                            | 99.18        | 7.17          |  |

shown at 0.434 and 0.298 V, accordingly, denoted in red. In comparison of both graphs,  $\mathrm{Ni^{1+}/Ni^{2+}}$  redox peaks (red) with  $\mathrm{K_4Fe}(\mathrm{CN})_6$  and  $\mathrm{K_3Fe}(\mathrm{CN})_3$  are present at the same locations as those of Ni/NC alone (black), but more distinguishable peak intensity of  $\mathrm{Ni^{1+}/Ni^{2+}}$  can be observed in addition of  $\mathrm{Fe^{2+}/Fe^{3+}}$ . However, the oxidation and reduction peaks of  $\mathrm{Ni^{2+}/Ni^{3+}}$  are slightly right shifted at 0.784 and 0.722 V, respectively, in presence of  $\mathrm{K_4Fe}(\mathrm{CN})_6$  and  $\mathrm{K_3Fe}(\mathrm{CN})_6$ . Thus, the addition of  $\mathrm{Fe^{2+}/Fe^{3+}}$  redox couple does not only facilitate signal amplification but also affect internal potential of Ni-NC catalyst, causing a slightly higher overpotential. Furthermore, variation of scan rates from 0.1 to  $0.9~\mathrm{V~s^{-1}}$  in Fig. 7B influences more peak separation of both  $\mathrm{Fe^{2+}/Fe^{3+}}$  and  $\mathrm{Ni^{2+}/Ni^{3+}}$  redox pairs, indicating more pronouncing capacitive current as increasing scan rates.

As shown in Fig. 7C, the linear relationship of anodic peak current (black) and cathodic peak current (red) of Fe<sup>2+</sup>/Fe<sup>3+</sup> redox couple versus the square root of scan rate is found to obey Randle-Sevcik equation, denoted in black and red, respectively. The slope values of Fe<sup>2+</sup>/Fe<sup>3+</sup> oxidation and reduction are  $6.485 \times 10^{-4}$  A.(V/s)<sup>-0.5</sup> (R<sup>2</sup> of 0.992) and  $-5.796 \times 10^{-4}$  A.(V/s)<sup>-0.5</sup> (R<sup>2</sup> of 0.988), respectively. Based on Eqs. 6-7, the slope of cathodic Fe<sup>2+</sup>/Fe<sup>3+</sup> peak with the relevant parameters in Table SII (Supplemental) estimates the values of A<sub>ec</sub> and R<sub>f</sub> to be 0.079 cm<sup>2</sup> and 2.542, respectively. It was worthwhile to note that the value of  $R_f$  in this study agrees with the charge associated  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface roughness of  $2.10 \pm 0.74$ . Furthermore, Fig. 7D also displays the linear relationship of anodic peak current (black) and cathodic peak current (red) of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni <sup>3+</sup> redox couple in terms of square root of scan rate, with the estimated slopes of  $1.240 \times 10^{-3} \text{ A.(V/s)}^{-0.5} (\text{R}^2)$ of 0.991) and  $-8.273 \times 10^{-4} \text{ A.}(\text{V/s})^{-0.5} (\text{R}^2 \text{ of } 0.995)$  for anodic and cathodic processes, respectively, suggesting a diffusion controlled process of hydroxyl layer of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni <sup>3+</sup> formation under 0.5 M [OH] supporting electrolyte in this study. Reported by the study of Guo et al., Aec of Ni catalyst was proportional to the charge of reducing NiOOH to Ni(OH)2, implying the dynamic change of R<sub>f</sub>.<sup>62</sup> In addition, Liu et al. also experimentally confirmed the high cultivate sites of catalyst, proportional to R<sub>f</sub>, thereby enhancing multi-carbon selectivity and coverage of hydroxyl groups in carbon monoxide reduction reaction. <sup>63</sup> As shown in Fig. 7D, the slope ratio of oxidation and reduction in Ni<sup>2+/3+</sup> was approximately 1.5, indicating that the oxide/hydroxyl formation of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> occurs much faster than the regeneration of quasi-reversible process on Ni/ NC in alkaline medium.

Determination of double layer current.—In general, the capacitive double layer current (Idl) and electrochemical redox reaction current are difficult to distinguish; nevertheless, the effect of Idl is minimized with the slow scan rate below 10 mV.s<sup>-1</sup>.64 Hall et al. also showed that the active surface area of  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> formation, prominently forming at approximately 0.3 V vs RHE during the forward sweep, was different to that of  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. Therefore, the determination of I<sub>dl</sub> was necessary because the active sites of Ni/NC formation contributed to both urea binding and charging association processes. Figure 8 shows an evaluation of double layer current  $(I_{dl})$ by assessing CV measurement (inset) of Ni/NC in 0.5 M KOH in double layer region of Ni from -0.35 to -0.05 V vs Ag/AgCl with various scan rates from 0.025 to 0.35 V s<sup>-1</sup>. Within this potential range, the result reveals non-redox peaks and indicates pseudocapacitive current response of nickel oxide surface in alkaline media, which in turn provides an estimation of I<sub>dl</sub> by averaging current from

<span id="page-11-1"></span>Figure 11. Interference study of peak current in addition of either 1 mM creatinine or 5 mM glucose or both into patients' spent dialysate (n = 3).

forward and reverse directions between -0.25 and -0.15 V at a given scan rate. 66 As a result, the linear relationship of I<sub>dl</sub> versus scan rate  $(\nu)$  can be illustrated in Fig. 8 with the slope and interception of  $1.353 \times 10^{-4}$  and  $-1.398 \times 10^{-5}$  (R<sup>2</sup> of 0.995), respectively, in the unit of A.(V/s)<sup>-1</sup>. Based on this calibration equation, the correlation coefficient confirms that I<sub>dl</sub> is dependent to the scan rate and the slope is the value of double layer capacitance of Ni/NC in KOH. In this study, the selected scan rate of 0.05 V s  $I_{dl}$  of 1.92  $\times$  10<sup>-5</sup>A would be used for urea estimation in both CV and DPV, implying an onset Ni double layer capacitive current prior to any hydroxyl surface formation as zero-urea concentration current. When applying a voltametric waveform in alkaline electrolyte, Ni oxide layers are further built up and become Ni(OH)/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni(OOH), forming the active binding sites to urea molecules with additional capacitive current in the total current toward positive potential sweeps. Furthermore, it was also believed that not any nickel hydroxyl forms can catalytically interact with urea. Despite  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/ $\beta$ -Ni(OOH), corresponding to  $Ni^{2+}/Ni^{3+}$  conversion, the highly catalytic active phase  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/γ-Ni(OOH) to actively provide stronger current exchange per redox reaction, consequently, increase the capacitive current response.<sup>67</sup> Therefore, the mixture of both phases alter capacitive current while urea adsorption and catalytic regeneration occurs. Thus, our investigation implemented background subtraction for the sensitivity estimation in fresh dialysate and applied I<sub>dl</sub> for substituting the interception (c) in Eq. 4, representing the zero concentration of urea in actual human dialysate correction in Eqs. 9, 10 and 12. Further electrochemical performances were carried out to examine catalytic activities of Ni/NC in alkaline media and to explore suitable potentials that results in active sites bind to urea.

Electrochemically non-enzymatic urea measurements..—For catalytic urea detection, urea measurements were assessed by CV and DPV in fresh simulated dialysate shown in Fig. 9. In this work, a calibration plot of urea on Ni/NC was constructed in successive urea addition in the optimized mixing ratio: 2.375 ml of dialysate (in the

<span id="page-12-0"></span>

| Table II. Comparison of | of electrochemical | urea-based | detections in | human dialysate. |
|-------------------------|--------------------|------------|---------------|------------------|
|-------------------------|--------------------|------------|---------------|------------------|

| Materials                       | Specimen                         | Supporting electrolyte | Method                                    | Linear range (mM) | Sensitivity $(A.mM^{-1}.cm^{-2})$                              | LOD<br>(mM) | References |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|------------|
| Ammonium ISFET/ur-<br>ease      | Fresh simulated dialysate        | PBS                    | Differential potentio-<br>metry/FIA       | 0.8-5.8           | 0.98 <sup>b)</sup> at 2.15 ml.min <sup>-1</sup>                | _           | 69         |
| Parylene-coated PTFE/<br>urease | Spent human peritoneal dialysate | $(NH_4)_2CO_3$         | Amperometry at 1.1 V<br>FIA <sup>-1</sup> | 4–20              | $0.46 \times 10^{-3}$ at $10 \text{ ml.min}^{-1}$              | 1.2         | 14         |
| Ammonium ISE/urease             | Spent human dialysate            | _                      | Voltammetry/ISE                           | _                 | _                                                              | _           | 71         |
| PDMS/silk-fibroin/ur-<br>ease   | Peritoneal dialysate             | $(NH_4)_2CO_3$         | Amperometry at 1.1 V<br>FIA <sup>-1</sup> | 0.1–20            | $0.85 \times 10^{-3} \text{ at}$<br>$10 \text{ ml.min}^{-1}$   | _           | 31         |
| PVA/SbQ/urease                  | Spent human dialysate            | PBS                    | Potentiometry/pH-FET                      | 0.5–15            | $40 \text{ mV pH}^{-1}, 15-20 \text{ mkA}$<br>$\text{pH}^{-1}$ | 0.1         | 13         |
| Ni foam doped Fe                | Mimic dialysate                  | KOH                    | CV                                        | 10                | _                                                              | _           | 41         |
| Ni/NC <sup>a)</sup>             | Human Dialysate                  | КОН                    | DPV                                       | 1–5               | $1.635 \times 10^{-3}$                                         | 0.060       | This work  |

a) Non-enzymatic sensors FIA: Flow injection analysis b) Relative comparison of sensitivity with standard method PDMS: Polydimethylsiloxane FET: Field effect transistor PTFE: Polytetrafluoroethylene ISE: Ion selective electrode PVA/SbQ: poly(vinyl alcohol)/styrylpyridinium.

range of 0.25-25 mM urea) and of 2.625 ml of 0.95 M NaOH (2.5 mmol) to achieve 0.5 M supporting electrolyte in the total volume of 5 ml. Because the detection mechanism depends on active sites (Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup>) rather than (Ni<sup>0</sup>), two essential parameters of A<sub>ec</sub> and I<sub>dl</sub> of Ni interfacial surface are necessarily considered during the on-going oxide formation for calculating urea estimation in real specimen. As shown in Fig. 9A, CV measurements of Ni/NC in simulated dialysate show a decreasing trend of oxidation peaks at +0.49 V and right shift toward +0.53 V in addition of 25 mM urea in the (forward) anodic scan. Interestingly, at the nearby location on the (reverse) cathodic scan, the secondary oxidation peak at +0.50 Voccurs and grows toward more positively anodic current, rather than becoming more negatively cathodic current as increasing urea concentrations. This phenomenon of the secondary oxidation peak was also found in the study of Ag/N-SWCNT by Kumar et al. 11 and the study of indirect urea oxidation on Ni by Vedharathinam et al.,<sup>5</sup> reported that this anodic peak around 0.45 V during the reverse scan, attributed to the further oxidation of urea molecules in the regeneration of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> active sites.

For a closer examination, Fig. 9B compares both Ni redox pairs with the urea concentrations of 0, 1, 5, and 25 mM in fresh simulated dialysate, denoting in black, green, brown, and pink, respectively. In absence of urea, only peak (i) of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>1+</sup> cathodic peak occurred, initially at 0.304 V and subsequently shifts to 0.292, 0.298, 0.288 V becoming less negative cathodic current in the presence of 1, 5, and 25 mM urea concentration as denoted in green, dark yellow, and pink, respectively. In addition, there was a shoulder cathodic peak at 0.372 V, left shifted to 0.348 V in addition of 25 mM urea, corresponding to the Ni1+/Ni2+ labelled as (ii) in red dash arrow and red solid arrow, respectively. Furthermore, the strongest oxidation peak, labelled as (iii) Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> was presented at 0.492 V in the absence of urea, and right shifted to 0.564 V in addition of 25 mM urea in dialysate in blue dash arrow and blue solid arrow, respectively. More fascinatingly, the secondary oxidation peak occurs at the reverse scan from 0.444 V (0 mM) to 0.504 V (25 mM urea) with the increasing trend of anodic peak current as shown by (iv) Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> blue dash arrow and blue solid arrow for 0 and 25 mM urea, respectively. In agreement to the so-called Bode-Botte scheme of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni(OOH) phase transition in UOR, <sup>48</sup> the first oxidation peak current in this study revealed the hydroxyl formation of  $\gamma$ -Ni(OOH) and  $\beta$ -Ni(OOH) active sites, associated to the fast UOR and the slow UOR, respectively. By increasing urea concentration, the fast UOR occurs predominately, resulting in more depleted  $\gamma$ -Ni(OOH) active sites as shown by decreasing oxidation peak (iii). Subsequently, the product of fast UOR generates activated  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and gradually converted  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, which in turns, can be oxidized to  $\beta$ -Ni(OOH) in presence of urea. As a result, an increasing trend in anodic current of peak (iv) in the reverse scan can be observed.

Further study of DPV could determine the faradic process of urea detection on 900 rpm rotating disk electrode. As shown in Fig. 9C, DPV results of 0 to 25 mM urea concentrations indicate a declining trend of strong and wide oxidation peak current as increasing urea concentrations with the onset potential at 0.35 V vs Ag/AgCl. In comparison with Fig. 9B, DPV is assessed by the positive potential scan and minimized the non-faradic process by differential pulse waveform. Thus, the DPV results shown in Fig. 9C primarily describe the summation of the first Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> oxidation peak and the secondary Ni<sup>3+</sup> urea oxidation peak, in agreement with the results of Fig. 9B. To determine the actual reaction current of urea-Ni<sup>3+</sup> interaction, the total current was subtracted from background (0 mM urea) as illustrated in Fig. 9D. In this study, we proposed the use of I<sub>dl</sub> (in real specimen) shown in the gray dash line in Fig. 9D as depicted the current response at 0 mM urea concentration of Ni/NC in dialysate. Based on the oxidation potential location in Fig. 9B, the background subtracted results reveal two distinguished current peaks at 0.425 and 0.50 V vs Ag/ AgCl, corresponding to Ni3+ urea oxidation and Ni2+/Ni3+ formation, labelled as the first peak and the second arrows, respectively. In agreement of this work, the phenomenon of oxidation at the (reverse) cathodic scan was previously observed in the CV results of 0.33 M urea in 0.5 M KOH at 0.55 V vs Hg/HgO by Bogg et al., revealing the slower NiOOH-urea absorption than the catalytic  $Ni(OH)_2/NiOOH$  conversion. <sup>50</sup> Due to the active sites of Ni catalyst being charged association, the actual reaction current in this work was determined by background subtracted total current in fresh simulated dialysate to estimate the sensitivity of Ni/NC. Thus, the calibration plot of the current peak and urea concentration was calculated based on the first peak of DPV in this study at 0.425 V vs Ag/AgCl, attributed to the oxidation after NiOOH-urea adsorption. As shown in Fig. 9D inset, the sensitivities of the calibration curve were estimated to the values of  $-2.583 \times 10^{-4}$  (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.999), -5.136 $\times 10^{-5}$  (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.998), and  $-8.511 \times 10^{-6}$  (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.992) A.mM<sup>-1</sup>, corresponding to the range of 0-1, 1-5, and 5-25 mM urea concentration, respectively. Despite of multiple linear ranges, the normal level of urea in serum is commonly found in the range of 2.5–6.7 mM.<sup>68</sup> In addition, Koncki et al. reported the dialysate urea concentration after 180 min-hemodialysis was normally below 3.57 mM.69 A similar study by Eddy et al. also showed that the median and the mean of dialysate urea concentration of 15 patients after 240 min treatment were 3.43 and 4.22 mM, respectively.<sup>70</sup> Therefore, the sensitivity of  $-5.136 \times 10^{-5}$  A.mM<sup>-1</sup> in the middle range of 1-5 mM urea was selected in this study as a meaningful threshold, applicable for prognosis. In addition, the limit of detection (LOD) in this work was 60.2  $\mu$ M, calculated based on signal to noise ratio of 3 (SNR = 3) by using 6 independent background current, thereby showing an excellent performance for non-enzymatic urea dialysate based sensor.

Validation of urea detection in human spent dialysate..—It was commonly known that pre and post urea concentrations in dialysis are in a wide range, depending on patients' urea generation rate, dialyzing clearance, and urea reduction ratio. Therefore, two common urea determinations: time-average concentration (TAC) and average predialysis concentration (PAC), for calculating Kt/V. Despite secreted urea in dialysate is expectedly diluted in a lower range, few knowledge has been established. This is essentially a challenge of urea estimation in dialysate. For practical validation in this work, Fig. 10 demonstrates both CV and DPV results of three patients in five separate spent dialysate measurements in the last hour of treatment. As shown in Fig. 10A, Patient A-C have similar oxidation and reduction peaks of CV in human spent dialysate with slightly shifting locations and different amplitudes. The redox peak separation potential is also approximately 0.15 V, similar in all samples. For further studies, Figs. 10B-10D demonstrate 5 separate DPV profiles of each patient's specimen, showing the strong oxidation peaks at approximately 0.445, 0.455 and 0.475 V vs Ag/ AgCl for Patient A-C, respectively. It was also noted that DPV results of Patient C were less precise than those of Patient A and B with another oxidation peak presented at 0.20-0.22 V.

For non-enzymatic urea estimation, the total current of the first oxidation peak was normalized by R<sub>f</sub> and subtracted by I<sub>dl</sub>, resulting in the actual Ni<sup>3+</sup>/urea reaction current as shown in Eq. 9. Finally, our predicted urea concentrations (X<sub>urea</sub>) in human spent dialysate were calculated by Eq. 12 and illustrated in Fig. 10F, demonstrating the estimated urea concentrations of patients' dialysate. Furthermore, Table I shows a comparison between the clinical standard measurement of urea by using optical urease-based detection, and our proposed non-enzymatic estimation. It was also found that the actual urea concentrations in spent dialysate of Patient A, B, and C were 2.470, 2.985, and 1.564 mM, respectively. In comparison, this work estimated the urea concentrations to be 2.480, 3.065, and 1.551 mM, indicating excellent recovery of 100.40%, 102.68%, and 99.18% from the clinical values for Patient A, B, and C, respectively. In addition, the percentages of RSD for Patient A, B, and C, are 1.27, 0.40, and 7.17, respectively. Furthermore, interference and stability studies were also carried out. Figure 11 shows average peak current of possible interferents such as glucose and creatinine at commonly found levels. In addition of 1 mM creatine spike in spent dialysate of Patient A, B, and C, the peak current results in 1.54, 3.66, 2.31% deviated with the control. Similarly, adding 5 mM glucose in human spent dialysate causes 0.96, 0.73, and 4.54% in difference to that of Patient A, B, and C, respectively. Ultimately, adding both 1 mM creatinine and 5 mM glucose contributes to 3.35, 2.71, 1.65% of current change in the spent dialysate of Patient A, B, and C, respectively, implying insignificant effect of interference for non-enzymatic Ni/NC based urea biosensor. For stability, the catalyst was tested at 10 mM urea measurement in dialysate at three separate trials and found out that the current peak drops about 9.31% after 4 weeks. In comparison, the existing electrochemical urea-based biosensors in human or simulated dialysate was summarized in Table II. Prominently, most developments incorporate ion-selective field effect transistor (ISFET) and urease. For example, Min Park et al. recently reported the use of amperometric based biosensor with parylene-A-coated PTFE membrane and urease in ammonium carbonate supporting electrolyte to quantify urea level in spent human dialysate in the range of 4–20 mM with the sensitivity of 0.46 mA.mM<sup>-1</sup>.cm<sup>-2</sup>.<sup>14</sup> Similar configuration of ammonium ion-selective electrode assessed by voltammetry in human dialysate was also reported. Another interesting design by Kyunghee Kim et al. implemented polymeric PDMS silk-fibroin with urease supported by ammonium carbonate electrolyte to detect the wider range of 0.1-20 mM urea concentrations in human peritoneal dialysate with enhanced sensitivity of 0.85 mA.mM<sup>-1</sup>.cm<sup>-2</sup>.<sup>31</sup> For recent decades, only a few studies have been investigating the practical electrochemical translation of nonenzymatic urea oxidation peak toward this phenomenon of concurrent processes of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> formation and Ni<sup>3+</sup>/urea interaction in dialysate. To our best knowledge, one study by Kelly Carpenter et al. demonstrated nickel foam doped iron supported by KOH in mimicking dialysate to detect urea in the range up to 10 mM by using CV with the unreported sensitivity of the sensor.<sup>41</sup> Thus, our developed Ni/NC along with the proposed urea determination method reported the highest sensitivity of 1.635 mA.mM<sup>-1</sup>.cm<sup>-2</sup> among non-enzymatic urea biosensors, within the linear range of 1-5 mM in human dialysate. Further improvement of scalable, costeffective materials with expansion of specimen quantity can promisingly promote a better long-term stability and even extend the linear range from our proposed urea estimation approach for nonenzymatic Ni based detection in dialysate to become more practical on future prognostic platforms, and applicable for advanced data analyses of simultaneous or real-time dialysis adequacy.

#### <span id="page-14-43"></span>Conclusions

This study experimentally reported the decreasing trends of oxidation peak in presence of more urea concentration in simulated dialysate, shown by both CV and DPV result on the nitrogen doped carbon supported nickel based urea biosensor. For sensitivity estimation, the background subtraction was implemented on DPV, revealing two oxidation peaks, corresponding to NiOOH-urea binding and NiOOH/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> conversion, respectively. By exploited the NiOOH-urea oxidation peak, the urea estimation in human spent dialysate can be calculated with the normalization of roughness, and double layer current subtraction, providing a highly accurate prediction in the recovery percentage of 99.18–102.68 in comparison to that of clinical standard method. Overall, our investigation reported the fascinating phenomenon of metastable polymorph Ni catalyst in alkaline medium, potentially found suitable applications on future prognostic sensors for real-time dialysis and wearable artificial kidney development.

#### Acknowledgments

This research was financially supported by School of Engineering, King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, (No.2565-02-01-017), and Shanghai "Road and Belt" International Cooperation Project (No.19520744200). In addition, the human specimen collection was approved by the Institutional Review Board (Research Ethics Committee) of King Mongkut's Institute of Technology, reference number EC\_KMITL \_64\_052 in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. Furthermore, our collaborations from Sensor Technology Laboratory (King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi) and Synchrotron Light Research Institute (Thailand) were gratefully acknowledged.

#### **ORCID**

Metini Janyasupab https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7381-6540

#### References

- <span id="page-14-0"></span>1. "Centers for Disease Control and Prevention." Chronic Kidney Disease in the United States, 2021 (Atlanta, GA)(US Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) (2021).
- <span id="page-14-1"></span>2. C. P. Kovesdy, Kidney Int. Suppl., 12, 7 (2022).
- <span id="page-14-2"></span>3. L. A. Inker et al., Am J Kidney Dis., 77, 673 (2021).
- <span id="page-14-3"></span>4. S. Gowda, S. S. Desai Pb Fau - Kulkarni, V. V. Kulkarni Ss Fau - Hull, A. A. K. Hull Vv Fau - Math, S. N. Math Aa Fau - Vernekar, and S. N. Vernekar, N. Am. J. Med. Sci., 2, 170 (2010).
- <span id="page-14-4"></span>5. I. Syed, S. Ismail Ahmad, S. A. I. Iizhar, P. Ravi Prasad, and A. Ahmad, Der. Pharma. Chemica., 6, 90 (2014).
- <span id="page-14-5"></span>6. A. Vartia, ISRN Nephrology, 2013, 341026 (2013).
- <span id="page-14-6"></span>7. F. P. Wieringa and J. P. Kooman, Nat. Rev. Nephrol., 16, 554 (2020).
- <span id="page-14-7"></span>8. X. Zhuo, W. Jiang, G. Qian, J. Chen, T. Yu, L. Luo, L. Lu, Y. Chen, and S. Yin, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 13, 35709 (2021).
- <span id="page-14-42"></span><span id="page-14-40"></span><span id="page-14-8"></span>9. J. Li, S. Wang, J. Chang, and L. Feng, Adv Powder Mater., 1, 100030 (2022).
- <span id="page-14-41"></span><span id="page-14-9"></span>10. A. Yazdani and G. G. Botte, Curr Opin Chem Eng, 29, 89 (2020).
- <span id="page-14-10"></span>11. T. H. V. Kumar and A. K. Sundramoorthy, J. Electrochem. Soc., 165, B3006 (2018)
- <span id="page-14-11"></span>12. Y.-L. Liu, R. Liu, Y. Qin, Q.-F. Qiu, Z. Chen, S.-B. Cheng, and W.-H. Huang, Anal. Chem., 90, 13081 (2018).
- <span id="page-14-39"></span>13. S. V. Marchenko, I. S. Kucherenko, A. N. Hereshko, I. V. Panasiuk, O. O. Soldatkin, A. V. El'skaya, and A. P. Soldatkin, Sens Actuators B Chem, 207, 981 (2015).
- <span id="page-14-21"></span>14. M. Park, J. Kim, K. Kim, J.-C. Pyun, and G. Y. Sung, Sensors, 19, 4560 (2019).
- <span id="page-14-12"></span>15. S. Singh, M. Sharma, and G. Singh, IET Nanobiotechnol., 15, 358 (2021).
- <span id="page-14-13"></span>16. A. Ahmadi and A. Nezamzadeh-Ejhieh, J. Electroanal. Chem., 801, 328 (2017).
- <span id="page-14-38"></span>17. Y. Ma, C. Ma, Y. Wang, and K. Wang, Catalysts, 12, 337 (2022).
- <span id="page-14-14"></span>18. N. S. Nguyen, G. Das, and H. H. Yoon, Biosens. Bioelectron., 77, 372 (2016).
- <span id="page-14-15"></span>19. M. Czauderna and J. Kowalczyk, Czech J. Anim. Sci., 57, 19 (2018).
- <span id="page-14-16"></span>20. P. S. Jensen, J. Bak, S. Ladefoged, and S. Andersson-Engels, Spectrochim. Acta Part A: Mol. Biomol., 60, 899 (2004).
- <span id="page-14-17"></span>21. J. T. Olesberg, M. A. Arnold, and M. J. Flanigan, Clin. Chem., 50, 175 (2004).
- <span id="page-14-18"></span>22. S. Cassiano Junior, A. Maurício Liberal de, B. Jeyse Aliana Martins, P. Antonio Luiz Barbosa, F. Adriana Barrinha, and S. Landulfo, Jr, J. Biomed. Opt., 21, 1
- <span id="page-14-19"></span>23. J. Y. H. Kunihito Hayashi, M. Ozaki, M. Nakagawa, and M. Hashiguchi, Sens. Mater., 3, 607 (2019)
- <span id="page-14-20"></span>24. Y. Rayanasukha, S. Pratontep, S. Porntheeraphat, W. Bunjongpru, and J. Nukeaw, Surf. Coat. Technol., 306, 147 (2016).
- <span id="page-14-22"></span>25. I. F. Coelho, J. R. Barbosa, L. Liu, C. D. S. C. Nogueira, D. F. Franceschini, E. A. Ponzio, J. C. M. Silva, and Y. Xing, Mater. Renew. Sustain. Energy, 9, 20
- <span id="page-14-23"></span>26. W. Yan, D. Wang, and G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta*, 61, 25 (2012).
- <span id="page-14-24"></span>27. S. Mondal and M. V. Sangaranarayanan, Sens. Actuators, B, 177, 478 (2013).
- <span id="page-14-25"></span>28. M. Tyagi, M. Tomar, and V. Gupta, Biosens. Bioelectron., 41, 110 (2013).
- <span id="page-14-26"></span>29. M. Swati, N. K. Hase, and R. Srivastava, Anal. Chim. Acta, 676, 68 (2010).
- <span id="page-14-27"></span>30. M. Zhybak, V. Beni, M. Y. Vagin, E. Dempsey, A. P. F. Turner, and Y. Korpan, Biosens. Bioelectron., 77, 505 (2016).
- <span id="page-14-28"></span>31. K. Kim, J. Lee, B. M. Moon, Y. B. Seo, C. H. Park, M. Park, and G. Y. Sung, Sensors, 18, 2607 (2018).
- <span id="page-14-29"></span>32. A. Bonini et al., IEEE Sens. J., 20, 4571 (2020).
- <span id="page-14-30"></span>33. Y. Miao, L. Ouyang, S. Zhou, L. Xu, Z. Yang, M. Xiao, and R. Ouyang, Biosens. Bioelectron., 53, 428 (2014).
- <span id="page-14-31"></span>34. P. Manusha, K. Theyagarajan, M. Elancheziyan, H. Shankar, K. Thenmozhi, and S. Senthilkumar, ECS Sensors Plus, 1, 033601 (2022).
- <span id="page-14-32"></span>35. Z.-F. Li, Y. Wang, and G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta*, 228, 351 (2017).
- <span id="page-14-33"></span>36. M. Wester, F. Simonis, N. Lachkar, W. K. Wodzig, F. J. Meuwissen, J. P. Kooman, W. H. Boer, J. A. Joles, and K. G. Gerritsen, Artif. Organs, 38, 998 (2014).
- <span id="page-14-34"></span>37. K. J. Babu, N. Senthilkumar, A. R. Kim, and G. G. kumar, Sens. Actuators, B, 241, 541 (2017).
- <span id="page-14-35"></span>38. W. Shi, R. Ding, X. Li, Q. Xu, and E. Liu, *Electrochim. Acta*, 242, 247 (2017).
- <span id="page-14-36"></span>39. N. A. M. Barakat, M. A. Yassin, A. S. Yasin, and S. Al-Meer, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 42, 21741 (2017).
- 40. A. G. Anil, T. S. Sunil Kumar Naik, S. Subramanian, and P. C. Ramamurthy, J. Electroanal. Chem., 883, 115062 (2021).
- <span id="page-14-44"></span>41. K. Carpenter and E. M. Stuve, J. Appl. Electrochem., 51, 945 (2021).
- 42. T. S. Sunil Kumar Naik, S. Saravanan, K. N. Sri Saravana, U. Pratiush, and P.
- <span id="page-14-37"></span>C. Ramamurthy, *Mater. Chem. Phys.*, **245**, 122798 (2020). 43. S. Lu, Z. Gu, M. Hummel, Y. Zhou, K. Wang, B. B. Xu, Y. Wang, Y. Li, X. Qi, and X. Liu, J. Electrochem. Soc., 167, 106509 (2020).

- <span id="page-15-0"></span>44. Z. Yu, J. Piao, and Z. Liang, "Synthesis of 2D nitrogen-doped mesoporous carbon catalyst for oxygen reduction reaction." [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.3390/ma10020197), 10, 197 (2017).
- <span id="page-15-8"></span>45. P. Kamedulski, W. Zielinski, P. Nowak, J. P. Lukaszewicz, and A. Ilnicka, [Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-75831-x) [Rep.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-75831-x), 10, 18793 (2020).
- <span id="page-15-1"></span>46. M. Inagaki, M. Toyoda, Y. Soneda, and T. Morishita, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.02.024), 132, 104 (2018).
- <span id="page-15-2"></span>47. D. S. Hall, D. J. Lockwood, C. Bock, and B. R. MacDougall, [Proc. R. Soc. A](https://doi.org/10.1098/rspa.2014.0792), 471, 20140792 (2015).
- <span id="page-15-3"></span>48. S. Chakrabarty, I. Offen-Polak, T. Y. Burshtein, E. M. Farber, L. Kornblum, and D. Eisenberg, [J. Solid State Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10008-020-04744-6), 25, 159 (2021).
- <span id="page-15-4"></span>49. Q. Zhang, F. M. D. Kazim, S. Ma, K. Qu, M. Li, Y. Wang, H. Hu, W. Cai, and Z. Yang, [Appl. Catal., B](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119436), 280, 119436 (2021).
- <span id="page-15-5"></span>50. B. K. Boggs, R. L. King, and G. G. Botte, [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/B905974A), 2009, 4859 (2009).
- <span id="page-15-6"></span>51. V. Vedharathinam and G. G. Botte, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137), 108, 660 (2013).
- <span id="page-15-7"></span>52. N. S. Nguyen and H. H. Yoon, [Sens. Actuators, B](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2016.05.165), 236, 304 (2016).
- <span id="page-15-9"></span>53. H. F. Gorgulho, F. Gonçalves, M. F. R. Pereira, and J. L. Figueiredo, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2009.03.050), 47, 2032 (2009).
- <span id="page-15-10"></span>54. S. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Rui, R. Wang, and X. Li, [Green Energy Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2020.10.013), 6, 458 (2021).
- <span id="page-15-11"></span>55. Z. Guo, G. Ren, C. Jiang, X. Lu, Y. Zhu, L. Jiang, and L. Dai, [Sci. Rep.](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep17064), 5, 17064 (2015).
- <span id="page-15-12"></span>56. X. Wang, B. Liu, J. Li, Y. Zhai, H. Liu, L. Li, and H. Wen, [Electroanalysis](https://doi.org/10.1002/elan.202060586), 33, 1484 (2021).

- <span id="page-15-13"></span>57. Y. Zhu, F. Wang, H. Zhang, X. Lv, Z. Hu, H. Han, X. Fan, J. Ji, and X.-D. Guo, [J. Alloys Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2018.02.346), 747, 276 (2018).
- <span id="page-15-14"></span>58. A. K. Sharma, S. Desnavi, C. Dixit, U. Varshney, and A. Sharma, [Int. J. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.7763/IJCEA.2015.V6.472) [Eng.](https://doi.org/10.7763/IJCEA.2015.V6.472), 6, 156 (2014).
- <span id="page-15-15"></span>59. J. Krejci, Z. Sajdlova, V. Nedela, E. Flodrova, R. Sejnohova, H. Vránová, and R. Plicka, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.091406jes), 161, B147 (2014).
- <span id="page-15-16"></span>60. M. J. Gira, K. P. Tkacz, and J. R. Hampton, [Nano Convergence](https://doi.org/10.1186/s40580-016-0063-0), 3, 6 (2016).
- <span id="page-15-17"></span>61. M. Grdeń, M. Alsabet, and G. Jerkiewicz, [ACS Applied Mater. & Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/am300380m), 4, 3012 (2012).
- <span id="page-15-18"></span>62. F. Guo, K. Ye, K. Cheng, G. Wang, and D. Cao, [J. of Power Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.12.125), 278, 562 (2015).
- <span id="page-15-19"></span>63. Y. Liu, H. Jiang, and Z. Hou, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202016332), 60, 11133 (2021).
- <span id="page-15-20"></span>64. D. M. Morales and M. Risch, [J. Phys.: Energy](https://doi.org/10.1088/2515-7655/abee33), 3, 034013 (2021).
- <span id="page-15-21"></span>65. D. Hall, C. Bock, and B. MacDougall, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0711412jes), 161, H787 (2014).
- <span id="page-15-22"></span>66. M. Łukaszewski, M. Soszko, and A. Czerwiński, [Int. J. Electrochem. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.20964/2016.06.71), 11, 4442 (2016).
- <span id="page-15-23"></span>67. B. K. Kim, V. Chabot, and A. Yu, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.07.119), 109, 370 (2013).
- <span id="page-15-26"></span>68. M. Vidotti, M. R. Silva, R. P. Salvador, S. I. C. D. Torresi, and L. H. Dall'Antonia, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2007.11.029), 53, 4030 (2008).
- <span id="page-15-27"></span>69. R. Koncki, A. Radomska, and S. Głąb, [Talanta](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0039-9140(99)00346-X), 52, 13 (2000).
- <span id="page-15-28"></span>70. C. Eddy, M. Flanigan, and M. Arnold, [Appl. Spectrosc.](https://doi.org/10.1366/000370203769699081), 57, 1230 (2003).
- <span id="page-15-25"></span><span id="page-15-24"></span>71. M. Berger, M. Sehlmeyer, F. Sellering, H. Röhrich, T. Perl, H. Mansour, D. Baasner, and S. Zimmermann, [J. Sens. Sens. Syst.](https://doi.org/10.5194/jsss-9-251-2020), 9, 251 (2020).