---
source: Ji 等 - 2020 - Oxygen Vacancy‐rich NiNiO@NC Nanosheets with Schottky Heterointerface for Efficient Urea Oxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.160s
generated: 2026-01-09T19:57:33.217472Z
---

Chemistry–Sustainability–Energy–Materials

## **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Oxygen Vacancy-rich Ni/NiO@NC Nanosheets with Schottky Heterointerface for Efficient Urea Oxidation Reaction

**Authors:** Xinyang Ji, Yongxia Zhang, Zhuo Ma, and Yunfeng Qiu

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.202001185

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202001185

# **Oxygen Vacancy-rich Ni/NiO@NC Nanosheets with Schottky Heterointerface for Efficient Urea Oxidation Reaction**

Xinyang Ji,[a] Yongxia Zhang,[a] Zhuo Ma,\*[c] and Yunfeng Qiu\*[a,b]

[a] X.Y. Ji, Y.X. Zhang, Prof. Dr. Y.F. Qiu School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Harbin Institute of Technology Harbin, 150001, People's Republic of China E-mail: qiuyf@hit.edu.cn

Harbin, 150001, People's Republic of China

[b] Prof. Dr. Y.F. Qiu Key Laboratory of Micro-systems and Micro-structures Manufacturing Harbin Institute of Technology

[a] Dr. Z. Ma School of Life Science and Technology I Harbin Institute of Technology Harbin, 150001, People's Republic of China E-mail: zhuoma@hit.edu.cn

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.((Please delete this text if not appropriate))

**Abstract:** H<sup>2</sup> production *via* electrocatalytic water splitting was greatly hindered by the sluggish oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Urea oxidation reaction (UOR) has drawn specific attention not only due to its lower theoretical voltage of 0.37 V compared with OER (1.23 V), but also for treating sewage water. Herein, we constructed Ni/NiO nanosheets with an ultrathin N-doped C layer containing Schottky Ni and NiO heterointerface. Because of the self-driven charge redistribution at the heterointerface, janus charge domains were successfully created to drive the cleavage of urea molecules. Meanwhile, the synergistic effect between N-doped C and Ni/NiO restrained the deactivation of active sites in alkaline solution. Our catalyst displayed 1.35 V for UOR at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , 0.27 V lower than that of OER. The final potential increase was only 2 mV after longterm stability test of 12 h for UOR, much smaller than the uncoated sample (38 mV). The present work proved that carbon coated transition metal nanomaterials with oxygen-vacancies and Schottky heterointerface were promising candidates for simultaneously boosting UOR with both high activity and long-term stability.

#### **Introduction**

With the increasing concerns about the fossil fuel energy and environmental crisis, clean energy has drawn great attention in nowadays.[1] In particular, hydrogen energy is one of the most competitive clean energy sources due to its high combustion value and ecofriendly features. Among various hydrogen production techniques, electrocatalytic water splitting is regarded to be potential for large-scale industrialization.[2] However, conventional water electrolyzer needs high energy input to produce H<sup>2</sup> due to the sluggish OER process, which suffers from large overpotential. In principle, anodic oxidation of organic compounds can proceed at lower theoretical potential, such as urea, glucose, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural, alcohols, etc. [3] Therefore, these anodic oxidation reactions can replace OER for fabricating hybrid water electrolyzer. [3b, 4] In this way, we can not only produce H<sup>2</sup> in less-energy consumption, but also turn these organic compounds into value-added products. [3a] In particular, urea oxidation reaction (UOR) can proceed at theoretical potential of 0.37 V, much lower than OER (1.23 V). [5] UOR has been reported to be an alternative anodic organic compound reaction to replace OER for H<sup>2</sup> production. [6] Meanwhile, the risky H2/O<sup>2</sup> mixture in hybrid water electrolyzer can be avoided, and sewage water containing urea is treated simultaneously. Taken together, UOR electrocatalysts with both high intrinsic activity and long-term stability are urgently needed for H<sup>2</sup> production in less-energy consumption. [7]

Although noble metal including platinum and rhodium could catalyze UOR efficiently, high cost and scarcity, as well as relatively poor long-term stability severely impeded their practical applications. For the purpose of large-scale industrialization, transition metal based electrocatalysts have drawn particular attention due to their low cost, excellent performance, widely available sources, etc. [2a, 8] So far, various material design and synthetic strategies have been developed to prepare nonprecious UOR electrocatalysts, including transition metal oxides and hydroxides, metal alloys, metal phosphides, metal sulfides, etc. [6, 9] Basically, researchers found that electrocatalysts with hierarchical porous nanostructures, oxygen vacancies, and surface chemical and electronic modifications, etc., could effectively boost the electrocatalytic performance.

In general, the large number of active sites and high intrinsic activities, as well as long-term stability are basic requirements for high-performance UOR electrocatalysts. [11] However, there are still large room in the development of high performance UOR electrocatalysts considering both activities and long-term stability. In comparison with OER, UOR undergoes complex 6e- electron transfer process CO(NH<sup>2</sup> )<sup>2</sup> + 6OH<sup>−</sup> → N<sup>2</sup> + CO<sup>2</sup> + 5H2O + 6e <sup>−</sup> , which needs high active sites for promoting the breakage of C-N bonds into N<sup>2</sup> and CO2. [6, 12] Fast electrocatalytic kinetics are dependent on the surface electronic structure, which determines the adsorption of urea molecules and subsequent cleavage of C-N bonds. The Schottky catalyst formed by the contact between metal and semiconductor is an emerging electrocatalyst. For instance, Li et. al. found that CoS2/MoS<sup>2</sup> Schottky heterojunctions was able to yield the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at 1.29 V for

UOR. [5a] Wang's group developed a bimetal Schottky heterostructure CoMn/CoMn2O4, which possessed self-driven charge transfer at the heterointerface, and exhibited potential of 1.32 V to reach 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for UOR.[12a] In brief, the existence of the Schottky heterointerface will effectively modulate the electronic structure of materials, favoring the UOR process.

In addition, previous work also found that the presence of oxygen vacancy could form defective energy level below the forbidden band, then the conductivity increased due to the decreased band gap, thus favoring the electron transfer during electrocatalytic process. [13] Meanwhile, these vacancies could expose more active sites for the adsorption of reagents. Furthermore, favorable decomposition of urea molecules on electrocatalyst surface can be realized *via* constructing Schottky heterointerface. [14] Apart from the research attention on improving the intrinsic activity, how to improve the long-term stability in alkaline solution is also a bottle-neck issue for final industrialization. For instance, NiOOH will be formed on the surface of Ni based UOR electrocatalysts, which suffers from severe corrosion issue in alkaline solution, thus resulting in rather poor durability. In particular, the structural strength is even worse when the thickness of two-dimensional transition metal nanosheets close to atomic scale, highly probably, because of its highly exposed atoms on basal planes and relatively large surface energy. Carbon coating on nanomaterials' outer surface, namely being regarded as "armor", is proved to be a successful strategy to improve the stability of catalysts in both nanocatalysis and electrocatalysis due to the synergistic modulation of the active sites, structural and electronic properties. [16] In particular, heteroatom introduction in carbon will result in synergistic effect with transition metals, modifying their 3d orbital distribution. However, seldom electrocatalysts are designed and prepared considering the above features to improve UOR activities and long-term stability.

Herein, two-dimensional Ni/NiO nanosheets coated with N-doped carbon layer was designed and prepared, in which Schottky heterointerface was built for boosting its UOR performance. <sup>39</sup> We are planning to use self-driven charge distribution at Schottky heterointerface of Ni/NiO to induce the generation of electrophilic and nucleophilic domains, which are thought to modulate the adsorption of urea and subsequent decomposition into N<sup>2</sup> and CO2. The "armor" of carbon coating was designed to protect electrocatalysts to restrain corrosion in alkaline solution. And Ndoping in carbon enhances the interaction with Ni/NiO to modulate the 3d orbital distribution of Ni, adjusting its interaction with reagents. Our catalyst needed 1.35 V *vs.* RHE to drive UOR at current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , much smaller than that of OER (1.62 V). Benefiting from the "armor", our catalyst exhibited superior long-term stability to the uncoated benchmark sample. Given the simultaneous realization of activity and stability, Schottky heterointerface in non-precious electrocatalysts will attract more and more attention for final industrialization.

#### **Results and Discussion**

In this work, the preparation procedure of Ni/NiO@NC is displayed in **Figure 1a**. Surfactant assisted assembly method was used to synthesize sheet-like NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor. [17] In our case, CTAB concentration was high enough to form layered micelles, which will incorporate Ni2+ ion between bilayers. Once the reducing agent, namely NaBH4, was added into the solution, all Ni2+ ions stuck in the micelles will be reduced immediately into nanosheets. The thickness of NiBO<sup>x</sup> nanosheets was estimated using atomic force microscopy (AFM) in **Figure 1b** and **1c**, which is around 3.5 nm. The sheet-like morphology was also proved by SEM and TEM images in **Figure S1a** and **Figure S2a**. In our Schottky electrocatalyst, metal-semiconductor heterointerface should be designed and synthesized. Therefore, NiBO<sup>x</sup> nanosheets precursor was hydrogenated at 320 <sup>o</sup>C, resulting in partial reduction. SEM in **Figure S1b** indicated the sheet-like morphology was well maintained, but some nanoparticles were newly generated on the surface of nanosheets. In addition, hydrogenation is effective to create oxygen vacancies for forming additional defective energy level in forbidden band of NiO, increasing the conductivity.[18] The oxygen vacancy will be proved and discussed in following paragraphs. To improve the conductivity and stability of materials, N-doped C was introduced

**Figure 1.** Synthetic scheme and AFM characterizations. (a) Schematic preparation process of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>T</sup> nanocomposites (T represents temperature). AFM image of (b) NiBOxand (c) corresponding height profile, as well as AFM image of (d) Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> and (e) corresponding height profile.

as protective layer by carbonization. AFM image of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was also measured in **Figure 1d**. The thickness of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> is about 4.9 nm in **Figure 1e**, larger than that of NiBOx, which might be caused by carbon coating.

After reduction by NaBH4, one can see that crystalline phase was surrounded by amorphous domains in HR-TEM image in **Figure 2a.** As shown by inset in **Figure 2a**, the lattice distance was around 0.208 nm, which can be indexed to (200) lattice plane of NiO. After reduction in Ar/H<sup>2</sup> atmosphere at 320 <sup>o</sup>C for 3 h, nanoparticles were in-situ generated on nanosheets with an average diameter of 15.6 nm, as shown **in Figure 2b** (diameter distribution was shown in inset). HR-TEM image in **Figure 2c** presented lattice distances of 0.202 nm and 0.243 nm, which can be indexed to the crystalline (111) facets of Ni and NiO, respectively, indicating the successful generation of Ni. After carbon coating process and carbonization at 400 <sup>o</sup>C for 2 h in Ar atmosphere, the nanoparticles underwent slight aggregation in **Figure S1d** and **Figure 2d**, showing larger average diameter of 25.0 nm than Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> by diameter distribution in inset of **Figure 2d**. HR-TEM image in **Figure 2e** displayed the distinct crystalline fringes with interlayer distances of about 0.201 nm and 0.238 nm, which were assigned for the (111) lattice plane of metal Ni and NiO, consistent with hydrogenated sample. This result indicated the formation of the crystalline metal Ni nanoparticles and NiO hybrid nanosheets. It's worthy of noting that there also existed distinct thin carbon layers with 0.34 nm layer spacing in **Figure 2e**. Meanwhile, from the SAED analysis, the coexistence of metal Ni and NiO with respective corresponding rings were observed in **Figure 1f**. Furthermore, the energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectrum in **Figure 2g** showed Ni, O, C, B and N elements, confirming the successful coating of N-doped carbon layers in Ni/NiO@NC400. Element mapping showed the even distribution of

**Figure 2.** TEM, SAED and EDX characterizations of catalysts. (a) TEM image of NiBOx. The inset is the HR-TEM photograph. (b and d) TEM and (c and e) HR-TEM images of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC400, respectively. Insets in (b and d) and (c and e) are the size distribution of Ni nanoparticles and the enlarged HR-TEM images of Ni/NiO320, Ni/NiO@NC400, respectively. (f) SAED pattern and (g) EDX spectrum of Ni/NiO@NC400. (h) SEM image of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> for EDS measurement and corresponding element mapping of (i) Ni, (j) O, (k) C, (l) B, and (m) N, respectively.

Ni, O, C, B and N elements in Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> from **Figure 2h** to **2m**, respectively. Inspired from previous work, coupling effect between N-doped carbon and Ni/NiO domains was able to modify the 3d orbital distribution of Ni, possibly resulting in the improved charge polarization of Ni.[19] For this reason, the binding energy of intermediates on the active sites will be modulated in UOR process.

In order to systematically study the annealing temperature effect on UOR performance, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> was further carbonized at 300 <sup>o</sup>C and 500 <sup>o</sup>C, respectively. SEM images for Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> were in **Figure S1c** and **S1e**, showing similar sheet-like morphologies with sample annealed at 400 <sup>o</sup>C. TEM image of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> was shown in **Figure S2b**, showing newly generated nanoparticles with average diameter of ~22.2 nm. When elevating the annealing temperature to 500 °C, the sheet-like morphology was still maintained, but nanoparticles became aggregated with much larger diameter in **Figure S2c** (31.3 nm). Basically, higher temperature will facilitate the graphitization of carbon for better conductivity, however nanoparticles will be aggregated accordingly. Thus, we need to balance these two aspects by adjusting the annealing temperature at a moderate level.

In **Figure 3a**, XRD was performed to identify the crystal structure and phase of the prepared catalysts. XRD pattern of NiBO<sup>x</sup> displayed no distinct characteristic peaks, confirming the amorphous feature. After reduction at 320 <sup>o</sup>C, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> showed diffraction peaks at 2*θ* of 44.5, 51.8, and 76.4°, which were indexed to the (111), (200) and (220) facets of the cubic phase of Ni (JCPDS Card no.04-0850), respectively. However, the characteristic peaks for NiO were not observed. After carbonization, Ni/NiO@NC300, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> all have similar crystalline structure with two phases of Ni (JCPDS Card no.04-0850) and NiO (JCPDS Card no.47-1049).[20] Additionally, the relatively small peak at 43.3<sup>o</sup> for NiO was overlapped with the peak at 44.5<sup>o</sup> for Ni when annealed at 300 <sup>o</sup>C, showing its poor crystallinity. The XRD results indicated that low

**Figure 3.** Spectra Characterizations. (a) XRD patterns of NiBOx, Ni/NiO320, Ni/NiO@NC300, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC500, respectively. (b) Roomtemperature ESR spectra of NiBO<sup>x</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC400, respectively. (c) FTIR spectra of the mixture of glucose and urea, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> coated with glucose and urea, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and NiBOx. (d) TGA spectra of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/Ni<sup>320</sup> coated with glucose and urea.

annealing temperature may lead to incomplete graphitization or crystallization, which might affect the conductivity, thus lowing the UOR kinetics. The characteristic diffraction peaks of carbon are not observed in XRD for Ni/NiO@NC400, highly probably, because of the ultralow content. We further used Raman to confirm the presence of carbon. No characteristic peaks for carbon were observed in the case of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> in **Figure S3**. However, Raman spectra of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> displayed D peak at about 1350 cm-1 and G peaks at 1580 cm-1 , which were derived from carbon layer, indicating the successful coating of carbon. [21] In general, NaBH<sup>4</sup> reduction is able to create oxygen vacancy in metal oxides, and subsequent hydrogenation of metal oxides is also useful to create oxygen vacancies, which will form defective energy level in forbidden band to decrease the band gap of semiconductor, thus the electron transfer rate will be increased due to the improved conductivity. EPR was carried out to investigate the oxygen vacancy of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor and Ni/NiO@NC400. The oxygen vacancy signal of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was not only remained, but also increased slightly compared with that of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor in **Figure 3b,** indicating higher oxygen vacancy content in the former material. Besides the improvement of conductivity, the presence of oxygen vacancy can facilitate the adsorption of urea molecules on the surface of catalysts, favorable for enhancing the UOR performance.

Conventional glucose based hydrothermal method was widely used for carbon coating, however this method always led to thick carbon layer on the target nanomaterials. [22] Too thick carbon layer will block the active sites on electrocatalysts, and might affect the interaction with electrolyte ions. In our synthetic procedure, urea and glucose served as N and C sources for carbon layer coating. Therefore, the initial adsorption of urea and glucose is vital for the subsequent carbonization. In order to obtain the organic groups information, FTIR spectrum of glucose and urea mixture was performed in **Figure 3c**. [23] As shown by the green curve, the broad band in the range of 3200-3600 cm-1 was well known to be assigned to hydroxyl groups. Methylene (CH2) stretching region appeared at 2923 cm-1 . The characteristic peak for double bond stretching of carbonyl was at 1680 cm-1 , and a peak close to it at 1599 cm-1 was assigned to be N-H deformation. We can't observe these characteristic peaks in the cases of NiBO<sup>x</sup> and Ni/NiO320. However, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> coated with glucose and urea displayed similar peaks at corresponding regions, except for the overlapping of N-H deformation and stretching carbonyl centered at 1630 cm-1 . This result indicated that this dip coating method was successful to load glucose and urea, which will serve as C and N sources for the subsequent growth of ultrathin N-doped carbon layer. In order to further confirm the presence of carbon layer on the surface of Ni/NiO320, TGA analysis of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> coated with glucose and urea were shown in **Figure 3d**. In both cases, the weight loss below 200 <sup>o</sup>C was ascribed to the adsorbed water. The former one left about 87.2% weight residues after 500 <sup>o</sup>C, which might be Ni and NiO. In contrast, after soaking in glucose and urea mixture solution, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> loaded with these C and N sources displayed more weight loss above 500 <sup>o</sup>C, which was due to the thermal decomposition of small molecules and carbothermal reaction between metal oxides and carbon. We also found that NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor showed the largest weight loss above 500 <sup>o</sup>C in **Figure S4**, highly possibly due to the release of CTAB molecules and thermal decomposition of B containing compounds. These results proved that the initial calcination of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor was necessary to remove all the adsorbents besides for the

**Figure 4.** BET analysis. N<sup>2</sup> adsorption–desorption isotherms of (a) NiBOx, (b) Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and (c) Ni/NiO@NC400, respectively. (d) Comparison of the BET surface area of NiBOx, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC400. The insets in a, b and c show the corresponding pore size distribution curves.

purpose of generating Ni/NiO heterointerfaces. In addition, in all TGA curves, it is seen that decomposition mainly occurred in the temperature range of 300-500 <sup>o</sup>C, which greatly affected the final nanostructures and compositions.

Basically, nanosheets suffer from the restacking issue during thermal annealing, which will result in low surface area, thus active sites might be blocked. [24] According to the SEM and TEM results, nanoparticles were in-situ generated during thermal annealing, and these nanoparticles acted as pillars to support the adjacent nanosheets. Consequently, the infiltration of the reagents and electrolyte ions became favorable. Type-IV N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherms of different catalysts have been measured in **Figure 4**. The BET specific surface area for NiBO<sup>x</sup> was 150.6 m<sup>2</sup> /g. The specific surface areas for Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> increased to 169.8 m<sup>2</sup> /g and 170.4 m<sup>2</sup> /g after thermal annealing, respectively. As assumed, no decrease of specific surface area was observed in final product, indicating the pillar effect of in-situ generated nanoparticles on preventing restacking. Insets in **Figure 4a** to **4c** demonstrated that corresponding pores lies in mesoporous scale except Ni/NiO320, in which around 100 nm pores were dominant, much larger than that of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor (35.2 nm) and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> (36.2 nm). The large surface area and ideal mesoporous structure of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> can promote the exposure of active sites, diffusion of intermediates and the release of gases products in UOR process.

XPS was measured to investigate the surface compositions and chemical valence states of NiBO<sup>x</sup> and Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> as well as Ni/NiO@NC400. The fine Ni 2p XPS spectra in **Figure 5a** can be deconvoluted into two spin-orbit doublets and two satellites (denoted as sat in graph). In detail, the peaks presented at 855.7 and 873.4 eV are assigned to Ni2+ and peaks appeared at binding energy of 857.0 and 875.1 eV were assigned to Ni3+. Note that there existed peaks at 852.4 and 852.8 eV corresponding to Ni<sup>0</sup> in both Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC400, however, this peak is silent in NiBOx. This result is in agreement with the HR-TEM and XRD results. In brief, the coexistence of metal Ni and Ni oxides is the basic requirement for fabricating Schottky heterointerface,

**Figure 5.** Fine XPS spectra deconvolution analysis. (a) Ni 2p XPS, (b) O 1s spectra of NiBOx, Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC400, respectively.

providing possibility to enhance its UOR performance[25]. In **Figure 5b**, the O 1s XPS spectra displayed two peaks at 530.3 eV (O1) and 532.9 eV (O3), which were attributed to lattice oxygen and surface adsorbed water molecules. And another peak at 531.7 eV was assigned to the defect sites with a low oxygen coordination (namely oxygen vacancy, denoted as O2)[26]. After hydrogenation treatment in Ni/NiO320, about 51.7% O2 atomic content was observed, slightly higher than that of NiBO<sup>x</sup> (45.1%). After coating carbon layer and thermal annealing, the O2 content was well maintained in Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> (46.6%), slightly higher than that of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor, agreeing well with the EPR results. Taking the overall O contents into account, the concentrations of oxygen-vacancy were about 25.7%, 27.4%, and 26.1% for NiBOx, Ni/NiO320, and Ni/NiO@NC400, respectively. C and N contents were around 6.90 atomic% and 1.22 atomic%, respectively, indicating that the N-doped carbon atomic content was around 8.12% in Ni/NiO@NC400. The fine deconvolution of N 1s in **Figure S5a** showed four types of N species, including oxidized N at 403.5 eV, graphitic N at 401.2 eV, pyrrolic N at 400.1 eV, pyridinic N at 398.5 eV, respectively. It is hypothesized that the presence of oxygen vacancies played important role in boosting the UOR performance with respect to the improved conductivity and exposure of active sites.

On the basis of above characterizations, it is seen that Ni/NiO@NC400contained Schottky heterointerface between metal Ni and semiconductor NiO, "armor" layer of N-doped carbon, and mesopores, which will significantly improve the adsorption and decomposition of urea, drive the mass transport, and fasten the electrocatalytic kinetics, thus ultimately boosting its UOR performance. The LSV curve of NiBO<sup>x</sup> displayed overpotential at 1.44 V to reach current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for UOR in **Figure 6a**. After thermal annealing in Ar/H<sup>2</sup> atmosphere, the overpotential of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> was 1.47 V at the same current density. The UOR performance of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> became inferior to precursor, this might be due to the larger pores, unfavorable for exposing active sites. After coating carbon and annealed at 300 <sup>o</sup>C, LSV curve of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> showed even worse UOR performance in terms of its larger overpotential of 1.56 V for achieving the current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . We planned to improve the UOR performance *via* carbon coating, but this is an unexpected result. As stated in above paragraph, the annealing temperature of 300 <sup>o</sup>C is not high

**Figure 6.** Electrocatalytic UOR performance of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> and reference samples in 1.0 M KOH solution containing 0.33 M urea. (a) LSV curves, and (b) Tafel plots derived from (a) for UOR. (c) Comparison of UOR and OER activities of Ni/NiO@NC400. (d) Overpotential (@10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> ) comparison of recent reported electrocatalysts in Table S1. (e) Current density as a function of the scan rates to give Cdl for various catalysts. (f) EIS measurements for NiBO<sup>x</sup> (black curve), Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> (red curve), Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> (blue curve), Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> (pink curve) and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> (green curve), respectively. (g) Chronopotentiometry curves for Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> and other catalysts at a constant current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>for 12 h. The catalysts were deposited on carbon cloth with the loading of 0.5 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> for durability tests.

enough to drive the complete carbonization of urea and glucose. Therefore, the coated carbon didn't possess ideal conductivity for electron transfer during UOR process, resulting in poor activity. In sharp contrast, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> requires overpotential of only 1.40 V to reach the current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , dramatically lower than that of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor and Ni/NiO320. When elevating the annealing temperature to 500 <sup>o</sup>C, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> needs slightly higher overpotential of 1.41 V at the same current density, which might be related to the aggregation of nanoparticles. Briefly, it is seen that the UOR overpotential was greatly dependent on the annealing temperature and carbon coating treatment. The underlying factors were related to the introduced Schottky heterointerface and ultrathin N-doped carbon layer.

Tafel was further analyzed in **Figure 6b**. It is seen that Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> possessed similar small Tafel slopes of 19.0 mV/dec and 19.7 mV/dec, respectively. However, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> prepared at lower temperature gave rise to higher Tafel slope of 96.5 mV/dec, indicating its slow electrocatalytic kinetics. We also found that the Tafel slops of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor and Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> are 37.7 mV/dec and 43.9 mV/dec, both larger than that of Ni/NiO@NC400. Among all electrocatalysts, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> displayed the smallest Tafel slope, revealing its fastest UOR kinetics due to the presence of optimal Ni/NiO heterointerface, ideal pore structures, synergistic effects between N-doped carbon "armor" and metal active sites[27]. As is known, a smaller Tafel slope represents a more rapid reaction rate as the potential increases. The effectiveness of UOR in comparison with OER for decreasing the overpotential is proved in **Figure 6c**. The potential of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> for UOR dramatically decreased by 0.27 V and 0.33 V at current density of 10 and 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> in comparison with OER, respectively. The fast current density increase upon addition of 0.33 M urea in electrolyte solution was resulted from the superior adsorption of urea on electrode surface and subsequent thermodynamically favorable oxidation tendency. We summarized recently published UOR results in **Figure 6d**, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> possesses superior UOR performance, at least comparable to the state-of-art UOR catalysts.

It is acknowledged that electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) plays a vital role in electrocatalytic reaction. ECSA is proportional to the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl). Higher Cdl value represents larger accessible surface area of the electrode. [28] CV of different catalysts were measured in a nonfaradaic potential range at various scan rates in **Figure S6**. Cdl can be derived from the slope of the plot of the difference between charging and discharging current densities *vs*. scan rates. As shown in **Figure 6e**, Cdl of NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor was 0.19 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> , and

decreased to 0.18 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> in the case of Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> after thermal annealing. Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> displayed moderate Cdl value of 0.22 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> , smaller than Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> (0.24 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> ) and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> (0.36 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> ). In comparison with Ni/NiO320, carbon coating was favorable for improving the Cdl values in all Ni/NiO@NC samples annealed at 300, 400 and 500 <sup>o</sup>C, respectively. This result might be related to the thermal decomposition of carbon and carbothermal reaction between carbon and transition metal oxides, resulting in additional pores on nanosheets for exposure more active sites. Additionally, EIS in **Figure 6f** depicted that Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> had the smallest semicircle in comparison with other control groups, showing the smallest charge transfer resistance (Rct) of 15.2 Ω after fitting with equivalent circuit in **Figure S7**, indicating its fast electron transfer rate for UOR. This result was correlated with the presence of higher density of oxygen vacancies and ultrathin carbon coating, which led to the modulation of conductivity and interface resistance between electrocatalysts and electrolyte ions.

The above results indicated that the introduction of oxygen vacancy, Schottky Ni/NiO heterointerface, and carbon coating was favorable to enhance UOR performance. How about the influence of each factor with different contents or ratios on the UOR performance? We next to synthesize a series of control groups with various concentrations of oxygen-vacancies, Ni/NiO ratios, pure Ni and NiO covered by N-doped carbon layer, and different carbon weight ratios in the final Ni/NiO@NC catalysts. Basically, under similar synthetic conditions of Ni/NiO@NC400, two control groups with low and high carbon weight ratios were prepared by using low and high concentrations of glucose/urea solution. The final products were characterized by full XPS spectra in **Figure S8a** and fine C 1s XPS spectra in **Figure S8b**. The atomic N-doped carbon contents increased from 5.93%, to 8.12% and 15.81% as enhancing the glucose and urea concentrations in **Figure S8c**. LSV curves for Ni/NiO@NC400with various carbon contents were displayed in **Figure S9a**. In comparison with Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with 8.12% carbon weight ratio, these two control groups with less and high carbon weight ratios displayed larger potential of 1.39 and 1.37 V to reach the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , indicating their worse UOR activities. And these two control groups displayed Tafel slopes of 55.6 and 43.3 mV/dec in **Figure S9b**, also higher than that of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with medium carbon weight ratio. It is assumed that less carbon weight ratio will weaken the electronic coupling between N-doped carbon and Ni active sites, and too high carbon weight ratio will form thick carbon layer to block the active sites, thus both cases are not favorable for enhancing the UOR performance.

Ni@NC and NiO@NC catalysts were prepared according to the same carbonization method in present paper. XRD patterns in **Figure S10** indicated the crystal structures of Ni@NC and NiO@NC catalysts, consistent with Ni (JCPDS Card no.04-0850) and NiO (JCPDS Card no.47-1049). Other Ni/NiO@NC catalysts with different concentrations of oxygen-vacancies, namely various Ni/NiO ratios, were characterized by XRD and XPS. In order to get low concentration of oxygen-vacancy in our catalysts, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was hydrothermally treated in water solution at 120 <sup>o</sup>C for 2 h. High concentration of oxygen-vacancy in Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was synthesized by introducing 5 sccm H<sup>2</sup> in the presence of 95 sccm Ar during carbonization process. TEM images in **Figure S11** displayed nanoparticles with average diameters of 21.2 and 24.7 nm for Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with low and high concentrations of oxygen vacancies, comparable to Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> in **Figure 2d**. As shown by fine O 1s XPS spectra in **Figure S12**, O2 ratios for low, medium, and high oxygenvacancies in Ni/NiO@NC were about 15%, 46.6%, and 71.5%, respectively. Considering the overall oxygen content in three samples, the concentrations of oxygen-vacancies (atomic ratio) in the Ni/NiO@NC catalysts were roughly calculated to be 8.3%, 26.1%, and 38.9%, respectively. EPR was further measured to disclose the oxygen-vacancies level. As seen in **Figure S13**, largest intensity was obtained in the case of Ni/NiO@NC catalyst with 38.9% oxygen-vacancy content, consistent with XPS results. Ni/NiO@NC catalysts with different concentrations of oxygenvacancies corresponded to various Ni/NiO ratios. It is seen that the relative intensity ratio between (111) facet for Ni and (200) facet for NiO was gradually decreased in **Figure S14**, indicating the successful modulation of Ni/NiO ratios. Meanwhile, XPS spectra in **Figure S15** displayed similar trend. With the increasing Ni/NiO ratios, the peak intensity at binding energy of 852.3 eV increased gradually. For pure NiO@NC, no metal Ni was observed. In contrast, the strongest peak for Ni<sup>0</sup> was observed for Ni@NC, and the characteristic peaks for Ni oxides was also seen at higher binding energy. It is well known, metal Ni is too active, and undergoes spontaneous surface oxidation, thus Ni2+ or Ni3+ signals are always seen in XPS. [29] In order to obtain the exact Ni/NiO ratios, the integrated areas of metal Ni and Ni oxides Ni 2p XPS spectra were used to calculate the Ni/NiO ratios. Less (3.53%), medium (8.49%), and high (25.46%) Ni/NiO ratios were obtained in Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> catalysts.

The LSV curves for Ni@NC and NiO@NC catalysts were measured in **Figure S16a** and **S16b**, 1.37 and 1.40 V were needed to reach the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for UOR. These potentials were inferior to that of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with medium Ni/NiO ratio (1.35 V). Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with less and high Ni/NiO ratios gave rise to 1.39 and 1.38 V to achieve the same current density. Tafel slopes in **Figure S16c** and **S16d** also displayed that Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with medium Ni/NiO ratio had the smallest value of 19.0 mV/dec, much lower than other control groups, indicating its fastest electrocatalytic kinetics. It is worth noting that Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> with medium Ni/NiO ratio also contained moderate concentration of oxygen-vacancy, which is regarded as an optimal concentration level for enhancing the UOR activity. Basically, increasing Ni/NiO ratio, namely enhancing the concentration of oxygen-vacancy in Ni/NiO@<sup>400</sup> catalysts, is favorable for creating more Schottky heterointerfaces, exposing the active sites, and increasing conductivity. As a result, the charge redistribution became more favorable for the adsorption and cleavage of urea molecules, and fast charge transfer between active sites and reagents was also obtained. However, the adsorption of OOH\* on active sites would become unstable when too high oxygen vacancy (namely high Ni/NiO ratio) was introduced in Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> catalyst. Therefore, the above results demonstrated that the optimal Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> for enhancing the UOR performance should possess medium Ni/NiO ratio, namely medium concentration of oxygen-vacancy.

Besides the catalytic activity, long term catalytic durability is another key factor in evaluating a reliable catalyst toward UOR. Thus we then used the chronopotentiometry method to identify the stability at current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . As demonstrated in **Video S1**, large amount of N<sup>2</sup> and CO<sup>2</sup> bubbles were generated on electrode surface. In **Figure 6g**, it is seen that the steady potential of Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> for urea oxidation increased 2 mV after

### WILEY-VCH

#### **FULL PAPER**

**Figure 7.** Urea oxidation device and TEM, XPS characterizations of Ni/NiO@CN $_{400}$  after stability test. (a) Digital pictures of three-electrode UOR device and N $_2$ , CO $_2$  gas bubbles generated on work electrode during test. (b) HR-TEM image after long-term UOR test, and inset is the enlarged region for clear demonstration of interlayer distances. (c) XPS Ni 2p spectra of Ni/NiO@NC $_{400}$  before and after the stability test.

12 h, distinctly lower than that of NiBO<sub>x</sub> precursor (30 mV), Ni/NiO<sub>320</sub> (37 mV), and the other two carbon coated samples including Ni/NiO@NC<sub>300</sub> (30 mV) and Ni/NiO@NC<sub>500</sub> (18 mV), respectively. The smallest potential attenuation of Ni/NiO@NC<sub>400</sub> indicated that the active sites activities could be well maintained for long-term catalytic stability for UOR in the strong alkaline condition. Overall, all three carbon coated samples have better durability performance than NiBO<sub>x</sub> and Ni/NiO<sub>320</sub>, indicating the protection effect of the carbon layer. Basically, without carbon layer, the in-situ generated NiOOH will directly contact with the strong alkaline solution, suffering from severe corrosion. However, in the case of Ni/NiO@NC<sub>400</sub>, ultrathin carbon layer didn't not affect the electron transfer between NiOOH and reagents, and carbon layer will also serve as buffer interface between NiOOH and strong alkaline electrolyte ions.<sup>[30]</sup>

In order to prove the application of Ni/NiO@NC<sub>400</sub> for hydrogen production in urea electrolysis system, ANF@NW was prepared according to our previous method, [31] which showed nanowires morphology in Figure S17. As shown in Figure S18a, ANF@NW needed 152 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>. The cell voltage was 1.50 V using Ni/NiO@NC400 as anode and ANF@NW as cathode in a two-electrode electrolyzer system in Figure S18b, which is smaller than that of commercial Ir/CIIPt/C based urea electrolysis system (1.52 V), and also outperformed than that of CoS<sub>2</sub> NA/Ti (1.59 V),[32] NCS/CC (1.52 V),[33] MOF-Ni@MOF-Fe-S (1.54 V),[34] Co<sub>0.85</sub>Se NRs (1.63 V),[35] Pomegranate-like Ni/C (1.6 V).[36] and HC-NiMoS/Ti (1.59 V)[37] based systems. The long-term hydrogen production in both urea electrolysis systems were compared by chronopotentiometry curves in Figure S18c, our material displayed better activity retention ability after 20 h.

At chronopotentiometric stability test of UOR, it is seen that large amount of bubbles were generated on the electrode surface at the end of 12 h in **Figure 7a**, indicating the sustainable urea oxidation ability. The used electrode was washed by distilled water, and soaked in water for 12 h for removing adsorbents. Ni/NiO@NC<sub>400</sub>

was collected by sonication and centrifugation, and was subjected to TEM measurement in Figure S19a. The sheet-like morphologies and nanoparticle size (26.9 nm) were well maintained. HR-TEM and SAED of Ni/NiO@CN<sub>400</sub> after stability test have been performed. It is seen that crystalline fringes with interlayer distances of 0.202 nm and 0.240 nm for the (111) facets of metal Ni and NiO in Figure 7b, indicating the existence of Ni/NiO heterointerface after UOR tests. In addition, it is also observed that amorphous phase, highly possibly NiOOH, was formed around the crystalline particles, which might be caused by the surface oxidation under high potential. Polycrystalline rings in SAED pattern in Figure S19b also proved the coexistence of metal Ni and NiO. Briefly, although partial regions contained amorphous phases, Ni/NiO Schottky heterointerface was still well maintained. And the comparisons of XPS Ni 2p spectra were displayed in Figure 7c, showing that metal Ni peak was remained at binding energy of 852.3 eV, consistent with the post HR-TEM result. The Ni<sup>0</sup> atomic content decreased 1.2% after UOR test. which is ascribed to the spontaneous surface oxidation or in-situ oxidation under high potential.[38] Meanwhile, the ratio of Ni34 specie after UOR test was 17.4%, higher than that in the fresh samples (16.3%), which might be caused by the in-situ generated NiOOH with high valence of Ni3+. Another important feature in our electrocatalyst is the preservation of oxygen vacancy content during harsh electrocatalytic process. The fine deconvolution of O 1s in Figure S5b displayed that O2 atomic content was wellmaintained to be 25.7% after UOR test, slightly lower that of fresh sample (26.1%), indicating that oxygen vacancy content was preserved after long-term test.

Our catalyst possesses unique two-dimensional sheet-like nanostructure with thickness of 4.9 nm, which will favor the exposure of more active sites on its basal planes. During annealing treatment in Ar/H<sub>2</sub> atmosphere, it is assumed that the in-situ generated nanoparticles serves as pillars to prevent the restacking of nanosheets. Meanwhile, the carbothermal reaction between carbon and NiO might create more pores on its basal planes. [39] On the basis of the above features, our material possessed more defects, and the exposed active sites have more possibilities to contact with reagents and electrolyte ions. This

**Figure 8.** Mechanism analysis. (a) Comparison of *ECSA* and *RF* for all prepared samples. b) *ECSA* corrected UOR LSV curves. (c) Energy band diagram of metal Ni and NiO with Schottky heterointerface. (d) The schematic UOR catalytic mechanism based on Ni/NiO Schottky synergistic effects.

assumption has been proved by the large *ECSA*. As shown in **Figure S20**, the oxidation peak current density (*jpa*) of the Ni2+/Ni3+ redox couple increased gradually as a function of scan rates. And the plot of *jpa* vs. ν0.5 presented a linear relationship in the scan rates range of 5-150 mV/s, indicating our electrode was diffusioncontrolled. [40] Therefore, ideal mass transport path was highly desired for electrocatalytic reactions. We also found that XPS and EPR results proved the abundant oxygen vacancies in our materials, which will form defective energy level in forbidden band, and improving its conductivity. [41] This feature is favorable for accelerating the electrocatalytic kinetics, as confirmed by the small Tafel slopes. Urea provides N source for the synthesis of Ndoped carbon. In this way, the coupling effect between Ni/NiO and N-doped carbon will dramatically modify the 3d orbital distribution of Ni, possibly resulting in the improved charge polarization of Ni. [19a] Consequently, the adsorption energy barrier of intermediates on the active sites will be modulated in UOR process.

We further compared the *ECSA* and The roughness factor (*RF*) of all electrocatalysts in **Figure 8a**. As is known, *ECSA* can be derived from equation = ⁄ . *C<sup>s</sup>* is the specific capacitance value, which can be selected as 0.040 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> for a smooth surface electrode. [42] *RF* was calculated by the equation = ⁄ (*A<sup>g</sup>* is geometric area of glassy electrode). Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> displayed the largest *ECSA* of 0.64 cm<sup>2</sup> , and *RF* value of 9.05 among all materials. Therefore, all LSV curves were transformed into specific current density (*js*), which is able to reflect the intrinsic activity. *j<sup>s</sup>* can be calculated by dividing current density (*j*) with *ECSA*. As seen in **Figure 8b**, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> needs potential of 1.42 V to reach the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , lower than the other two samples annealed at 300<sup>o</sup> (1.67 V) and 500<sup>o</sup>(the current density was only 5.88 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at 1.42 V). Meanwhile, NiBO<sup>x</sup> and Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> delivered the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at potential of 1.44 V and 1.46 V, respectively, larger than that of Ni/NiO@NC400, consistent with the above results. Basically, C-N bond cleavage was the key step for urea oxidation on electrode surface. In our catalyst, there existed Schottky heterointerface, which is located at Ni and NiO interface. In general, self-powered electron flow from Ni toward NiO occurs in **Figure 8c**, because the work function of Ni (4.5 eV) was smaller than that of NiO (around 5-5.6 eV). [43] As a result, our catalyst possesses electrophilic Ni domain and nucleophilic NiO domain, respectively. Therefore, electron-donating amino group and electron-withdrawing carbonyl group in urea molecules can be selectively adsorbed on the above electrophilic and nucleophilic domains in **Figure 8d**. [12a] As a result, the C-N bond cleavage became favorable, and urea oxidation could proceed at lower potential. The last feature of our catalyst is its long-term stability, which is realized by the introduction of carbon layer. Carbon layer not only acts as mediator for electron transfer between NiOOH and reagents, but also served as "armor" to restrain the corrosion of active sites in alkaline solution. Post characterizations confirmed that all the above features were well preserved, which is promising for future industrialization.

#### **Conclusion**

In conclusion, we reported an oxygen vacancy-rich Ni/NiO nanosheets coated with ultrathin N-doped carbon, which exhibited promising UOR performance. Systematic characterizations indicated that our materials possessed some basic yet attractive features for boosting electrocatalytic performance. It has two-dimensional mesoporous nanosheet structure with thickness of 4.9 nm, and in-situ generated Ni/NiO nanoparticles with diameter of 25.0 nm served as pillars to prevent sheets restacking. There existed Schottky heterointerface at Ni and NiO interface. Self-powered electron redistribution resulted in electrophilic and nucleophilic domains, which provided unique active sites for the selective adsorption of electrondonating amino groups and electron-withdrawing carbonyl groups in urea molecules, thus effectively driving urea decomposition. Ultrathin N-doped carbon layers strengthened the coupling effect with Ni/NiO, inducing charge polarization of active sites. In particular, carbon layer was useful to act as buffer layer to prevent the corrosion of NiOOH in alkaline solution, improving the longterm stability. Hence, our catalyst exhibited high UOR performance. Nevertheless, there is still plenty of room in the design and synthesis of Schottky electrocatalysts. In principle, it is possible to simultaneously improve the electron donating ability of metal for hydrogen evolution reaction, and the oxidative ability of semiconductor for OER and UOR, as well as other organic compounds oxidation reactions, which are promising for the ultimate realization of energy-saving H<sup>2</sup> production, sewage water treatment, or generation of value-added products.

#### **Experimental Section**

Chemicals: The nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO3)2·6H2O), cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB), sodium borohydride (NaBH4), glucose and urea were purchased from Aladdin Ltd. Ni nanoparticles with diameter of 20-100 nm and NiO nanoparticles with diameter around 30 nm were also purchased from Aladdin Ltd. Ethanol was purchased from Macklin Ltd. All reagents were used as received without further treatment.

Synthesis of NiBOx: CTAB (0.5 g) and Ni(NO3)2·6H2O (0.582 g) were well dispersed in 25 mL deionized water by 15 min stirring at 50 <sup>o</sup>C on heating plate. After cooling down, 10 mL NaBH<sup>4</sup> aqueous solution (50 mg/mL) was added to the above solution within 3 minutes under continuous stirring. After 5 minutes, black precipitates could be collected by filtration, washed by ethanol for 5 times, then dried in vacuum for overnight to obtain precursor (named as NiBOx).

Synthesis of Ni/NiO320: The as-synthesized NiBO<sup>x</sup> precursor was heated to 320 <sup>o</sup>C in a tube furnace with a rate of 5 <sup>o</sup>C/min and maintained for 3 h in Ar/H<sup>2</sup> atmosphere (85/15 sccm). The obtained black powder was denoted as Ni/NiO320.

Synthesis of Ni/NiO@NC: First of all, 100 mg Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> was dispersed in 50 mL glucose/urea solution (100 mg glucose and 100 mg urea dissolved in 50 mL deionized water) and stirred for 1 h. Powder were collected by filtration and dried in vacuum for 12 h. At last, the Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was obtained through carbonization at 400 <sup>o</sup>C with a rate of 5 <sup>o</sup>C/min and maintained for 2 h in Ar atmosphere (100 sccm). Ni/NiO@NC<sup>300</sup> and Ni/NiO@NC<sup>500</sup> were prepared by the same method as described above, but the carbonization temperature were 300 and 500 <sup>o</sup>C, respectively. Under similar synthetic conditions of Ni/NiO@NC400, two control groups with low and high carbon weight ratios were prepared. Basically, for low carbon weight ratio synthesis, 25 mg glucose and 25 mg urea were dissolved in 50 mL deionized water, which was used as carbon precursor solution for 100 mg Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> powders. For high carbon weight ratio synthesis, 500 mg glucose and 500 mg urea were dissolved in 50 mL deionized water, in which 100 mg Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> powders were dispersed. The above two Ni/NiO<sup>320</sup> powders coated with different amount carbon precursor were calcined at 400 <sup>o</sup>C with a rate of 5 <sup>o</sup>C/min in Ar for 2 h.

Ni/NiO@NC catalysts with different concentrations of oxygen-vacancies were prepared as follows. In order to get low concentration of oxygenvacancy, Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was hydrothermally treated in water solution at 120 <sup>o</sup>C for 2 h. High concentration of oxygen-vacancy in Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> was synthesized by introducing 5 sccm H<sup>2</sup> in the presence of 95 sccm Ar during carbonization process.

Characterization: X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were characterized on a Diffractometer-6000 with Cu *Kα* radiation (λ = 0.1542 nm) in the range from 10 to 90° at room temperature to identify material species. Scanning electronic microscopy (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometry (EDX) analysis were conducted under a FEI FEG250 to study the morphology and elemental distribution of the catalyst. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) were performed on a field-emission TEM (TECNAI, FEI, US). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out with an X-ray photoelectron spectrometer [Thermo Fisher 250 XI XPS, using Al (*Kα*) radiation as a probe to get information about the valence state of surface element. Raman spectra were recorded on a confocal microscope-based Raman spectrometer (LabRAM XploRA; incident power = 1 mW; pumping wavelength = 532 nm). Nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms were performed on a TriStar II 3020. The specific surface areas were calculated by the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method and the Barrett–Joyner– Halenda (BJH) method is used to determine the pore size distribution curve. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was conducted on a TGA Q500 equipment at nitrogen atmosphere with a heating rate of 10 °C/min. Fourier transform infrared spectra (FTIR) were performed on a Bruker Tensor Germany spectrometer in the range from 400 to 4000 cm-1 . Electron paramagnetic resonance spectra was conducted on a Bruker EMX EPR spectrometer.

Electrochemical measurements: For the preparation of the working electrode, 5 mg material was dispersed in a mixed solution consisting of 650 μL deionized water, 350 μL isopropanol and 30 μL Nafion polymer. The solution was sonicated for 40 min to form a homogeneous ink. Then 5 μL ink was drop-casted on the glassy carbon electrode (GCE) with an area of 0.07068 cm<sup>2</sup> to achieve a loading of ~0.35 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> . The GCE was dried at 50 <sup>o</sup>C for 30 min.

Electrochemical tests were conducted on a CHI760E electrochemical workstation (CH Instrument, China).The OER and UOR tests were both carried out in a typical three-electrode system. The GCE as the working electrode, Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) and graphite rod as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. OER experiments were performed in O2 saturated 1 M KOH. UOR experiments were performed in 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea solution. The polarization curves were obtained in the potential range from 0.1 to 0.9 V versus Hg/HgO at room temperature with a scan rate of 5 mV/s. All the polarization curves were obtained after 20 CV cycles and corrected by the *iR* compensation. All potentials are converted according to the following equation: ERHE = EHg⁄HgO + 0.927 V in 1.0 M KOH.[31, 44] The electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) was calculated by CV curves which were measured at scan rate of 10, 20, 40, 60, 80, 100, 120, 150 mV/s in non-faradaic potential region from 1.22 to 1.33 V versus RHE. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was performed in the frequency range from 0.1 to 10<sup>5</sup> Hz at 1.35 V for all materials. In stability test, carbon cloth coated with electrocatalysts (0.5 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> ) was used as working electrode. A blank carbon cloth was used as counter electrode to replace graphite rod. Stability tests for all materials were performed by chronopotentiometry at η10in 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea.

Hydrogen production via urea electrolysis was measured in twoelectrode systems. Carbon cloth loaded with 0.5 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> Ni/NiO@NC<sup>400</sup> served as anode, and ANF@NW acted as cathode in a two-electrode electrolyzer system. Commercial Ir/C and Pt/C (Johnson Matthey-JM, 20 wt.%) were deposited on carbon cloth with loading amount of 0.5 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> , which were used as anode and cathode, respectively. Polarization curves were carried out in 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea solution. Chronopotentiometry curves were recorded at 1.5 V for Ni/NiO@NC400‖ANF@NW electrolyzer, and at 1.52 V for Ir/C‖Pt/C electrolyzer in 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea.

#### **Acknowledgements**

We gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants 51902071), Key Laboratory of Micro-systems and Micro-structures Manufacturing of Ministry of Education, Harbin Institute of Technology (No. 2015KM006), and Heilongjiang Postdoctoral Foundation (LBH-Q16091).

**Keywords:** Two-dimensional nanosheets • Urea oxidation reaction • Schottky heterointerface • Carbon coating • Synergistic effect

- [1] a) M. D. Symes, L. Cronin, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, 5, 403; b) Y. Ma, X. Dong, Y. Wang, Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, 57, 2904; c) Y. Yu, Y. Shi, B. Zhang, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2018**, 51, 1711; d) Q. Gong, Y. Wang, Q. Hu, J. Zhou, R. Feng, P. N. Duchesne, P. Zhang, F. Chen, N. Han, Y. Li, C. Jin, Y. Li, S.-T. Lee, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, 7, 13216.
- [2] a) Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, 44, 2060; b) E. Chornet, S. Czernik, *Nature* **2002**, 418, 928; c) T. J. Meyer, *Nature* **2008**, 451, 778; d) J. K. Norskov, C. H. Christensen, *Science* **2006**, 312, 1322; e) M. Li, T. Liu, X. Bo, M. Zhou, L. Guo, S. Guo, *Nano Energy* **2017**, 33, 221.
- [3] a) B. You, Y. Sun, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2018**, 51, 1571; b) X. Liu, J. Chi, B. Dong, Y. Sun, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, 6, 2157.
- [4] a) C. Hu, Q. Ma, S.-F. Hung, Z.-N. Chen, D. Ou, B. Ren, H. M. Chen, G. Fu, N. Zheng, *Chem* **2017**, 3, 122; b) Z.-Y. Yu, C.-C. Lang, M.-R. Gao, Y. Chen, Q.-Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S.-H. Yu, *Energy & Environ. Sci.* **2018**, 11, 1890.
- [5] a) C. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zhuo, H. Ju, D. Li, Y. Guo, X. Wu, H. Li, T. Zhai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, 8, 1801775; b) M. Song, Z. J. Zhang, Q. W. Li, W. Jin, Z. X. Wu, G. T. Fu, X. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, 7, 3697.
- [6] B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, *Small* **2020**, 16, 1906133.
- [7] Z. X. Wu, X. Y. Guo, Z. H. Zhang, M. Song, T. T. Jiao, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, X. Liu, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2019**, 7, 16577.
- [8] a) Y. Liu, N. Zhang, L. Jiao, J. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, 27, 6702; b) C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, L. He, X. Jiang, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, 29, 1602441; c) Y. Zhang, C. Wu, H. Jiang, Y. Lin, H. Liu, Q. He, S. Chen, T. Duan, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, 30, 1707522; d) Y. Zhang, Y. Qiu, X. Ji, T. Ma, Z. Ma, P. A. Hu, *ChemSusChem* **2019**, 12, 3792.
- [9] a) D. Liu, T. Liu, L. Zhang, F. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, 5, 3208; b) C. B. Sun, M. W. Guo, S. S. Siwal, Q. B. Zhang, *J. Catal.* **2020**, 381, 454.
- [10] a) N. A. M. Barakat, M. A. Yassin, A. S. Yasin, S. Al-Meer, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2017**, 42, 21741; b) Y. Gu, S. Chen, J. Ren, Y. A. Jia, C. Chen, S. Komarneni, D. Yang, X. Yao, *ACS Nano* **2018**, 12, 245.
- [11] a) K.-L. Yan, J.-F. Qin, Z.-Z. Liu, B. Dong, J.-Q. Chi, W.-K. Gao, J.-H. Lin, Y.-M. Chai, C.-G. Liu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2018**, 334, 922; b) Y. Zhang, Q. Shao, S. Long, X. Huang, *Nano Energy* **2018**, 45, 448; c) J. Hou, Y. Wu, B. Zhang, S. Cao, Z. Li, L. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, 29, 1808367; d) J. Duan, S. Chen, C. Zhao, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, 8, 15341.
- [12] a) C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, 30, 2000556; b) J.-Y. Zhang, T. He, M. Wang, R. Qi, Y. Yan, Z. Dong, H. Liu, H. Wang, B. Y. Xia, *Nano Energy* **2019**, 60, 894.
- [13] a) Z. Xiao, Y. Wang, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Wei, C.-L. Dong, J. Ma, S. Shen, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Energy & Environ. Sci.* **2017**, 10, 2563; b) G. Liu, Z. Li, J. Shi, K. Sun, Y. Ji, Z. Wang, Y. Qiu, Y. Liu, Z. Wang, P. Hu, *App. Catal. B: Environ.* **2020**, 260, 118134; c) B. Zhang, S. Wang, Z. Ma, Y. Qiu, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, 496, 143710.
- [14] a) Z.-H. Xue, H. Su, Q.-Y. Yu, B. Zhang, H.-H. Wang, X.-H. Li, J.-S. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, 7, 1602355; b) J. Hou, Y. Sun, Y. Wu, S. Cao,

- L. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, 28, 1704447; c) J.-Y. Wang, T. Ouyang, N. Li, T. Ma, Z.-Q. Liu, *Sci. Bulletin* **2018**, 63, 1130.
- [15] a) S. Zou, M. S. Burke, M. G. Kast, J. Fan, N. Danilovic, S. W. Boettcher, *Chem. Mater.* **2015**, 27, 8011; b) B. Beden, A. Bewick, *Electrochim. Acta* **1988**, 33, 1695.
- [16] a) X. Cui, P. Ren, D. Deng, J. Deng, X. Bao, *Energy & Environ. Sci.* **2016**, 9, 123; b) M. Zhang, J. Guan, Y. Tu, S. Chen, Y. Wang, S. Wang, L. Yu, C. Ma, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Energy & Environ. Sci.* **2020**, 13, 119; c) X. F. Lu, L. Yu, X. W. Lou, *Sci. Adv.* **2019**, 5, 9.
- [17] L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, 29, 1606793.
- [18] L. Z. Zhuang, Y. Jia, T. W. He, A. J. Du, X. C. Yan, L. Ge, Z. H. Zhu, X. D. Yao, *Nano Res.* **2018**, 11, 3509.
- [19] a) H. Jin, J. Wang, D. Su, Z. Wei, Z. Pang, Y. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, 137, 2688; b) H. Zhang, Y. Liu, T. Chen, J. Zhang, J. Zhang, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, 31, 1904548.
- [20] J. Liu, Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, Z. Wang, Z. Lu, A. Vasileff, S.-Z. Qiao, *Small* **2018**, 14, 1704073.
- [21] a) X. Ji, S. Wang, E. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Z. Ma, Y. Qiu, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2019**, 7, 11024; b) Y. Huang, Z. Ma, Y. Hu, D. Chai, Y. Qiu, G. Gao, P. Hu, *RSC Adv.* **2016**, 6, 51725.
- [22] X. W. Lou, D. Deng, J. Y. Lee, L. A. Archer, *Chem. Mater.* **2008**, 20, 6562.
- [23] G. F. Mohsin, F.-J. Schmitt, C. Kanzler, J. Dirk Epping, S. Flemig, A. Hornemann, *Food Chem.* **2018**, 245, 761.
- [24] I.-S. Jung, H. J. Kwon, M. Kim, D. Kim, J.-H. Kim, H. Lee, D. Yun, S. Byun, D. Yu, H. An, J. Jang, D. Im, H. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, 7, 10397.
- [25] X.-H. Li, M. Antonietti, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2013**, 42, 6593.
- [26] F. Lei, Y. Sun, K. Liu, S. Gao, L. Liang, B. Pan, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, 136, 6826.
- [27] a) X. Wu, B. Feng, W. Li, Y. Niu, Y. Yu, S. Lu, C. Zhong, P. Liu, Z. Tian, L. Chen, W. Hu, C. M. Li, *Nano Energy* **2019**, 62, 117; b) Q.-Q. Yan, D.- X. Wu, S.-Q. Chu, Z.-Q. Chen, Y. Lin, M.-X. Chen, J. Zhang, X.-J. Wu, H.-W. Liang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, 10, 4977.
- [28] a) X. Shan, J. Liu, H. Mu, Y. Xiao, B. Mei, W. Liu, G. Lin, Z. Jiang, L. Wen, L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, 59, 1659; b) C. Wei, R. R. Rao, J. Peng, B. Huang, I. E. L. Stephens, M. Risch, Z. J. Xu, Y. Shao-Horn, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, 31, 1806296.
- [29] I. S. Pieta, A. Rathi, P. Pieta, R. Nowakowski, M. Hołdynski, M. Pisarek, A. Kaminska, M. B. Gawande, R. Zboril, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2019**, 244, 272.
- [30] L. Peng, J. Shen, L. Zhang, Y. Wang, R. Xiang, J. Li, L. Li, Z. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, 5, 23028.
- [31] H. Sun, Z. Ma, Y. Qiu, H. Liu, G.-g. Gao, *Small* **2018**, 14, 1800294.
- [32] S. Wei, X. Wang, J. Wang, X. Sun, L. Cui, W. Yang, Y. Zheng, J. Liu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, 246, 776.
- [33] P. Hao, W. Zhu, L. Li, J. Tian, J. Xie, F. Lei, G. Cui, Y. Zhang, B. Tang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, 338, 135883.
- [34] H. Xu, K. Ye, K. Zhu, J. Yin, J. Yan, G. Wang, D. Cao, *Dalton Trans.* **2020**, 49, 5646.
- [35] Y. Sun, S. Wang, J. Ning, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhong, Y. Hu, *Nanoscale* **2020**, 12, 991.
- [36] L. Wang, L. Ren, X. Wang, X. Feng, J. Zhou, B. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater.*
- *Interfaces* **2018**, 10, 4750. [37] X. Wang, J. Wang, X. Sun, S. Wei, L. Cui, W. Yang, J. Liu, *Nano Res.*
- **2018**, 11, 988. [38] H. Ali-Löytty, M. W. Louie, M. R. Singh, L. Li, H. G. Sanchez Casalongue, H. Ogasawara, E. J. Crumlin, Z. Liu, A. T. Bell, A. Nilsson, D. Friebel, *J*
- *Phy. Chem. C* **2016**, 120, 2247. [39] D. Zhou, Y. Cui, P.-W. Xiao, M.-Y. Jiang, B.-H. Han, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, 5, 4716.
- [40] a) L. Chen, H. Guo, T. Fujita, A. Hirata, W. Zhang, A. Inoue, M. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2011**, 21, 4364; b) W. Zhang, J. Qi, K. Liu, R. Cao, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, 6, 1502489.
- [41] D. Yan, Y. Li, J. Huo, R. Chen, L. Dai, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, 29, 1606459.
- [42] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, 135, 16977.

- [43] P. Rai, J.-W. Yoon, H.-M. Jeong, S.-J. Hwang, C.-H. Kwak, J.-H. Lee, *Nanoscale* **2014**, 6, 8292.
- [44] a) Y. Zhang, H. Sun, Y. Qiu, X. Ji, T. Ma, F. Gao, Z. Ma, B. Zhang, P. Hu, *Carbon* **2019**, 144, 370; b) B. Zhang, E. Zhang, S. Wang, Y. Zhang, Z. Ma, Y. Qiu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2019**, 543, 84.

### **Entry for the Table of Contents**

Oxygen vacancy-rich Ni/NiO nanosheets with Schottky heterointerface were protected by ultrathin N-doped carbon layer, and displayed high urea oxidation reaction (UOR) performance. Charge polarization of active sites at Schottky interface, enhanced conductivity due to the presence of defective energy level, and synergistic effect between anti-corrosion carbon layer and active sites were responsible for the enhanced specific UOR activity and long-term stability.

Harbin Institute of Technology