---
source: Kang 等 - 2022 - CoP Nanoparticle Confined in P, N Co‐Doped Porous Carbon Anchored on P‐Doped Carbonized Wood Fibers.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 32.502s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:00:04.515697Z
---

# CoP Nanoparticle Confined in P, N Co-Doped Porous Carbon Anchored on P-Doped Carbonized Wood Fibers with Tailored Electronic Structure for Efficient Urea **Electro-Oxidation**

Jingfei Kang, Fan Yang, Can Sheng, Han Xu,\* Jiayi Wang, Yan Qing,\* Yiqiang Wu, and Xihong Lu\*

Electronic structure optimization and architecture modulation are widely regarded as rational strategies to enhance the electrocatalysts catalytic performance. Herein, a hybridization of ZIF-67-derived CoP nanoparticles embedded in P, N co-doped carbon matrix (PNC) and anchored on P-doped carbonized wood fibers (PCWF) is constructed using a simple simultaneous phosphorization and carbonization strategy. Benefiting from the optimized surface/interface electronic structures, abundant exposed active sites, and outstanding conductivity, the CoP@PNC/PCWF can drive the urea oxidation reaction (UOR) with greater activity and better stability than most recently reported electrocatalysts, in which a potential as low as 1.32 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) is needed to reach 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and shows excellent durability. Furthermore, for overall urea splitting, using the CoP@PNC/PCWF electrocatalyst as the anode and commercial Pt/C supported on nickel foam as the cathode, an ultralow cell voltage of 1.50 V (vs RHE) is expected to achieve the 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and operate continuously for more than 50 h at 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The reported strategy may shed light on the use of renewable resources to design and synthesize high-performance non-Ni-based phosphides UOR electrocatalysts for energy-saving H<sub>2</sub> production.

J. F. Kang, C. Sheng, H. Xu, J. Y. Wang, Y. Qing, Y. Q. Wu College of Materials Science and Engineering Central South University of Forestry and Technology Changsha 410004, P. R. China E-mail: xuh@csuft.edu.cn; qingyan@csuft.edu.cn F. Yang, X. H. Lu MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic and Synthetic Chemistry The Key Lab of Low-Carbon Chem & Energy Conservation of Guangdong

School of Chemistry Sun Yat-Sen University Guangzhou 510275, P. R. China

E-mail: luxh6@mail.sysu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202200950.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202200950

#### 1. Introduction

Hydrogen (H2) has been considered a great substitute for traditional fossil fuels because of its low carbon footprint and high energy density.[1-3] The production of H2 in large quantities via overall water splitting is one of the most ecologically benign and long-term solutions to today's energy crises and pollution, especially when powered by sustainable energy sources like solar and wind.[4,5] However, as a half-reaction of water splitting at the anode, the oxygen evolution reaction (OER,  $4OH^- \rightarrow 2H_2O + O_2 + 4e^-$ , E = 1.23 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) suffers from slow kinetics, which necessitates a significantly high overpotential, restricting the development of overall water splitting technique. [6-9] To deal with this issues, substituting OER in some of the more oxidizable anode reactions is revolutionary in terms of lowering the potential required to generate H<sub>2</sub> but also total energy prices. [10–12] Especially, urea electrolysis, which is assisted by the

anodic urea oxidation reaction (UOR) that operates at a lower theoretical voltage of 0.37 V (vs RHE) than typical water oxidation (1.23 V, vs RHE), is highly compelling and can significantly improve the efficiency of H<sub>2</sub> production.<sup>[13,14]</sup> Besides, UOR is a central chemical reaction in direct urea fuel cells, urea-rich wastewater purification, and artificial kidneys.[15,16] While the anodic UOR process involves 6e<sup>-</sup> transfer (CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> + 6OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  $N_2 + 5H_2O + CO_2 + 6e^-$ ), highly active and affordable electrocatalysts are required to boost the efficiency.<sup>[17]</sup> Despite the fact that Pt/C and IrO2 have demonstrated excellent catalytic activity for UOR, their low earth-abundance and increased price prevent them from being used on a large scale. [18-21] Consequently, high-efficiency electrocatalysts are urgently needed for UOR toward more energy-efficient H<sub>2</sub> production.

Recently, Ni-based catalysts, such as Ni-based (oxy)hydroxides, phosphides, sulfides, and their hybrids, have exhibited significant electrocatalytic activity against UOR.[22-24] Ni-based phosphides, in particular, have demonstrated promising

application prospects due to their low cost, variable composition, tunable hydroxyl ability, and redox chemistry.[25,26] Nonetheless, as with UOR, the catalytic properties of other transition metal phosphides must be optimized to reduce the reaction potential and energy output. According to data, the catalytic performance of electrocatalyst can be multiplied by the number of exposed catalytically active sites, which can be accomplished through architecture modulation and the rational design of electrode structure. Currently, zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs) are being studied extensively as precursors for engineering the nanoarchitecture of derived materials as robust electrocatalysts.[27–30] Nonetheless, the majority of reported ZIFs-derived electrocatalysts have been obtained through direct pyrolysis of ZIFs crystals, which are prone to agglomerate during the reaction process, unfavorable for exposing catalytically active sites and results in unsatisfactory catalytic activity and durability.[31–33] Although some research has focused on the direct growth of ZIFs throughout a conductive matrix (such as carbon cloth, Ni foam, etc.), the chemical properties on the surface of these conductive matrices are typically chemically inert, necessitating additional manipulation to make them coordination with the metal ions for ZIF growth.[34] Therefore, the direct growth of ZIFs throughout a matrix through a facile strategy is highly desirable.

The naturally wood fibers (WF), as the most abundant and sustainable biopolymer on earth, own a huge percentage of hydroxyl groups (–OH) on their surface, which may firmly adsorb the metal ions for the direct growth of ZIFs.[35,36] Motivated by these features, a rational design architecture constructed by the ZIF-67-derived CoP nanoparticles embedded in P, N co-doped carbon matrix (PNC) and direct growth on P-doped carbonized WF (PCWF) is prepared (CoP@PNC/PCWF) for UOR by simultaneous carbonization and phosphorization process in one step. The well-defined CoP@PNC/PCWF not only can effectively ensure the uniformity of CoP nanoparticles and prevents CoP corrosion, but it also can fix the CoP@PNC nanostructures and improve their conductivity. Furthermore, P doped into carbon matrix can induce more defects in carbon, which could improve the electronic interaction between CoP and PNC by forming heterogeneous interfaces, and then result in synergistic interaction of CoP@PNC/ PCWF to improve electrocatalytic performance for UOR. Interestingly, the as-prepared CoP@PNC/PCWF performed admirably in terms of UOR, it only required 1.32 V (vs RHE) to achieve a current density of 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m urea as well as excellent stability for more than 72 h at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . Furthermore, using CoP@PNC/PCWF as anode and commercial Pt/C as a cathode result in a low cell voltage of 1.50 V to deliver 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . This work introduces a new concept for designing efficient non-Ni-based phosphides UOR electrocatalysts and increasing H2 generation more economically.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Materials Characterization**

The electrocatalyst preparation procedure for CoP@PNC/ PCWF is depicted schematically in **Figure 1**. First, a large number of natural WF with abundant hydroxyl groups were infiltrated a mixed solvent containing cobalt nitrate and methanol solution and then adsorbed Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> at room temperature. The FTIR spectra of pure WF and the Co2<sup>+</sup> adsorbed WF were shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), it can be observed that the stretching vibration peak of the FTIR spectra with metal ion adsorbed WF does not change except for its intensity, indicating that a part of −OH on the surface of WF bonds with metal ions.[35] Moreover, the SEM images and XRD pattern of pure WF also be investigated in Figure S2 (Supporting Information). The pre-adsorption of Co2+ will play the role of binding locus to grown ZIF-67 crystals anchor on WF (denote as ZIF-67/WF). Then the ZIF-67/WF precursors were annealed at 800 °C under N2 atmosphere to harvest the desired catalysts through simultaneous phosphorization and carbonization in one step. When ZIF-67/WF precursors were thermal decomposition at 800 °C in N2 atmosphere in the presence of NaH2PO2·H2O, poplar pulp fiber the coordinated Co2<sup>+</sup> in ZIF-67 to cobalt metal, which is then reacted with PH3 vapor to form CoP nanoparticles. The 2-MeIM linkers and WF were converted simultaneously to PNC and PCWF, respectively. As a result, a hybrid electrocatalyst consisting of CoP NPs embedded in PNC and anchored on PCWF were created in a single step through a sample preparation process.

The crystalline phase and morphology of the synthesized ZIF-67/WF precursors were firstly studied by the XRD and SEM, respectively. XRD pattern of ZIF-67/WF shows peaks between 5° and 40° that can be indexed to the conventional ZIF-67 (Figure S3, Supporting Information).[37,38] The fabricated ZIF-67/WF has typical polyhedral configurations with smooth surfaces and uniformly distributed on the WF (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The as-prepared CoP@PNC/PCWF

**Figure 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthetic process of CoP@PNC/PCWF.

**Figure 2.** a–c) SEM images of CoP@PNC/PCWF with different magnifications. d,e) TEM images of CoP@PNC/PCWF. f) HRTEM images of CoP@PNC/PCWF (the inset is the corresponding SAED pattern). g–k) HAADF-STEM image and corresponding STEM-EDS elemental mappings of CoP@PNC/PCWF.

retains the original polyhedral configuration of ZIF-67 after the simultaneous high-temperature carbonization and phosphorization, and a rough surface derived from ZIF-67 pyrolysis products were observed, resulting in an increased surface area of CoP@PNC/PCWF (**Figure 2**a–c). To obtain in-depth structural information, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis was conducted. Related TEM images show that CoP@PNC inherits the polyhedral configuration of ZIF-67, and CoP NPs are uniformly distributed within the carbon framework (Figure 2d,e). Meanwhile, the CoP@PNC has a plethora of dense pores covering its entire surface; these randomly oriented pores promote electrolyte filling and electron transport, revealing more active sites and boosting reactant diffusion.[39,40] Further research reveals that the (111) planes of CoP crystals have a lattice spacing of 0.25 nm, and the carbon matrix was being made up of an amorphous carbon phase (Figure 2f). The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern reflects the polycrystalline structure of CoP@PNC with spot- and ring-like patterns (inset in Figure 2f). Meanwhile, the scanning TEM (STEM) and corresponding EDS elemental mapping images reveal a relatively uniform dispersion of Co, P, and N elements throughout the carbon matrix (Figure 2g–k).

N2 adsorption–desorption measurements are performed to evaluate the porous structures and pore-size distributions of CoP@PNC/PCWF. The CoP@PNC/PCWF presents a hysteresis hoop between its adsorption and desorption curves in **Figure 3**a, corresponding to a type-IV isotherm. This indicates it contains numerous mesoporous structures (the pore size is about 4 nm, inset in Figure 3a). The calculated Brunauer–Emmett–Teller surface area of CoP@PNC/PCWF is around 214.9 m2 g–1, which is higher than the CoP@PNC (147.4 m2 g–1), indicating that the CoP@PNC anchoring on the PCWF could considerably enhance the specifical surface area of the CoP@PNC/PCWF. Furthermore, the crystal structures and composition of CoP@PNC/PCWF

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.small-journal.com**

**Figure 3.** a) N2 adsorption–desorption isothermal curves (the inset is the corresponding pore-size distribution plot) for CoP@PNC/PCWF and CoP@PNC. b) XRD patterns of CoP@PNC/PCWF and Co@NC/CWF. The high-resolution XPS spectra of c) Co 2p, d) C 1s, and e) P 2p for CoP@PNC/PCWF. f) Raman spectra for CoP@PNC/PCWF and CoP@NC/ CWF.

were characterized using XRD measurements (Figure 3b). The XRD pattern of Co@NC/CWF display obvious diffraction peaks at 44.2°, 51.5°, and 75.8°, corresponding to the (111), (200), and (220) lattice planes of the face-centered cubic metal Co, respectively (JCPDS No. 89-7093). While the CoP@PNC/PCWF exhibits obvious diffraction peaks located at 31.6°, 35.3°, 36.3°, 46.2°, 48.1°, 52.3°, 56.0°, 56.8°, and 77.1°, which correspond to the (011), (200), (111), (112), (211), (103), (020), (301), and (222) lattice planes of the orthorhombic CoP, respectively (JCPDS No. 89-2598), indicating that CoP was successfully synthesized in the CoP@PNC/PCWF by the simultaneous phosphorization and carbonization procedure. For comparison, the XRD patterns of CoP@PNC/PCWF synthesized at different temperatures, CoP@NC/CWF and CoP@PNC are also displayed in Figures S5 and S6 (Supporting Information), respectively, the XRD patterns all show the CoP diffraction peaks, which are similar to that of CoP@PNC/PCWF.

XPS was used to elucidate the surficial composition and chemical states in the CoP@PNC/PCWF. Apart from a small amount of O which might contribute from partial oxidation of the surface of CoP@PNC/PCWF, only Co, P, N, and C elements are discovered in the survey XPS spectrum of CoP@PNC/PCWF (Figure S7a, Supporting Information), and the surface N, P content is ≈2.35 and 16.03 at%, respectively. In the high-resolution Co 2p spectrum of CoP@PNC/PCWF, the peaks at 779.1 and 794.0 eV can be attributed to CoP bonds which confirmed the formation of CoP, and the oxidized Co species caused by the partial oxidation of CoP in the air atmosphere could be attributed to the peaks at 781.5 and 797.8 eV (Figure 3c).[41] For the high-resolution C1s spectrum of CoP@PNC/PCWF (Figure 3d), the peaks centered at 284.6, 285.1, 286.1, and 290.1 eV are derived from CC, CP, CN, and OCO bonding, respectively, illustrating the forming of a P, N co-doped carbon matrix.[35] Meanwhile, the high-resolution XPS spectrum for P 2p (Figure 3e) further verifies that the P has been doped into the carbon matrix.[42,43] The high-resolution spectrum of N 1s reveals that doped N primarily exists in the carbon matrix as pyridinic N, graphite N, and oxidized N (Figure S7b, Supporting Information).[44] For comparison, the XPS spectrum of CoP@NC/CWF is also obtained (Figure S8, Supporting Information). There are no PC bonds found in the high-resolution C1s and P 2p spectra of CoP@NC/CWF, and the peaks of Co–P for CoP@NC/CWF shifted to 779.3 and 794.2 eV, respectively. The positive shift in the binding energy of the Co species, in this case, is most likely caused by P doping in the carbon matrix. Previous works have confirmed that P doped into carbon matrix can change the electronic structure and surface polarity of carbon to induce more defects, which could improve the electronic interaction between CoP and PNC by forming heterogeneous interfaces and result in the binding energy shift of Co–P peaks in CoP@PNC/PCWF.[45,46] This synergistic interaction has the potential to improve CoP@PNC/PCWF electrocatalytic performance for UOR. To characterize the more defects existence in the carbon matrix of

**www.small-journal.com**

CoP@PNC/PCWF, the Raman spectra of CoP@PNC/PCWF and CoP@NC/CWF were collected. As shown in Figure 3f, the CoP@PNC/PCWF shows two distinct Raman peaks at 1331 and 1577 cm–1, corresponding to the featured D-band and G-band for carbon.[47] The relative intensity ratio of D-band to G-band for CoP@PNC/PCWF is ≈1.12, which is greater than that of CoP@NC/CWF (0.57), suggesting that the carbon matrix of CoP@PNC/PCWF has a substantial number of defects.[48]

#### **2.2. UOR Performance**

The electrocatalytic properties of CoP@PNC/PCWF were evaluated in 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m urea electrolyte under a typical three-electrode system, for comparison, CoP@NC/CWF, Co@NC/CWF, CoP@PNC, PCWF, CWF, and commercial Pt/C with the same loading are also studied. The corresponding SEM images of CoP@NC/CWF, Co@NC/CWF, and CoP@PNC are presented in Figure S9 (Supporting Information) and the XRD pattern of PCWF is shown in Figure S10 (Supporting Information). The polarization curves were obtained using a linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) at a scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . As presented in **Figure 4**a, the CoP@PNC/PCWF has a high UOR activity and only requires 1.29 V (vs RHE) when delivering a current density of 10 mA cm–2. More significantly, only 1.32 V (vs RHE) is required to achieve the high current density of 50 mA cm–2. The potential is reduced by 257 mV in comparison to the OER performed in 1.0 m KOH at the same current density, demonstrating its outstanding UOR performance. Moreover, the potential of CoP@PNC/PCWF at the current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for UOR is significantly lower than that of CoP@NC/CWF (1.35 V), CoP@PNC (1.37 V), Co@NC/CWF (1.41 V), and commercial Pt/C (1.39 V), while the PCWF and CWF has little electrochemical activity (Figure 4b and Figure S11, Supporting Information). We also compared the performance of CoP@PNC/PCWF synthesized at different temperatures, and the results indicate that the CoP@PNC/ PCWF synthesized at 800 °C has the best UOR performance (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The remarkable UOR activity of CoP@PNC/PCWF also surpasses those of reported advanced UOR catalysts (Figure 4c and Table S1, Supporting Information). In addition, to further demonstrate that P doping influences the electronic structure and the catalytic performance of CoP@PNC/PCWF, the underlying catalytic mechanisms were discovered using density functional theory (DFT) computations. The structural models of CoP@PNC and CoP@NC have been constructed based which reveals the spatial distribution, as illustrated in Figure S13 (Supporting Information). Furthermore, the corresponding charge density difference diagrams of the CoP@PNC and CoP@NC are shown in Figure 4d and Figure S14 (Supporting Information) (the blue and yellow areas represent the depletion and accumulation of electron, respectively), which display that the interface of CoP@PNC occurs a significant charge redistribution, indicating that P

**Figure 4.** a) Polarization curves for the OER and UOR of CoP@PNC/PCWF with a scan rate of 5 mV s–1. b) LSV curves of CoP@PNC/PCWF, CoP@NC/PCWF, CoP@PNC, Co@NC/CWF, and commercial Pt/C. c) The comparison of potentials between CoP@PNC/ PCWF and recently reported UOR catalysts at 10 mA cm–2. d) The charge density difference of CoP@PNC. e) The calculated free-energy diagram of the UOR on the surface of CoP@PNC and CoP@NC. f) The corresponding Tafel slopes.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2022, 24, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202200990 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

doped into carbon matrix can improve the electronic interaction between CoP and PNC by modifying electronic structure of CoP@PNC. Meanwhile, the Gibbs free energy profiles for UOR elementary steps on CoP@PNC and CoP@NC were generated to verify and validate the intrinsic activity (Figure 4e and Figure S15, Supporting Information). Figure 4e indicates that the thermodynamic of the UOR at the surface of CoP@PNC decreases significantly, which suggesting a more facile bond cracking of C–N in  $\text{CO}(\text{CN}_2)_2^*$  and is primarily attributable to the higher catalytic activity of CoP@PNC/PCWF for the UOR observed in the experimental data. [49]

#### 2.3. Mechanism Analysis

To analyze the reaction kinetics of the catalysts, Figure 4f displays the corresponding Tafel slopes derived from the polarization curves. CoP@PNC/PCWF possesses a Tafel slope of 34.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is lower than that of CoP@NC/CWF (38.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Co@NC/CWF (68.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), CoP@PNC (63.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and Pt/C (51.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>); and the results suggest its rapid electron transfer rate and superior UOR catalytic kinetics. Additionally, the UOR kinetics of these catalysts were illustrated in **Figure 5**a using EIS. The smallest charge transfer resistance ( $R_{rt}$ ) value obtained from CoP@PNC/PCWF (1.6  $\Omega$ ) is

due to its smallest Tafel slope and further confirms its remarkable UOR charge transfer kinetics. The ECSA is a critical metric for determining whether electrocatalysts have improved their electrocatalytic performance, as evidenced by the double-layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) (Figure 5b and Figure S16, Supporting Information).<sup>[50]</sup> The C<sub>dl</sub> value of CoP@PNC/PCWF (19.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) is much higher than those of CoP@NC/CWF (11.3 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), CoP@PNC (8.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), Co@NC/CWF (5.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), and Pt/C catalyst on NF (4.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 5c), which demonstrates that the CoP@PNC/PCWF can provide higher ECSA and better exposure of the electroactive sites for UOR. The larger ECSA of CoP@PNC/PCWF can be attributed to the uniform dispersion of the anchoring effect of PCWF and the confinement of CoP nanoparticles in P, N co-doped porous carbon. This unique structural effect can effectively prevent nanoparticle agglomeration while also providing a large specific surface area and reaction-available surface, resulting in increased ECSA. In theory, normalizing the electrocatalytic current in relation to the ECSA can provide a more trustworthy metric for comparing catalyst intrinsic activity.<sup>[51,52]</sup> As shown in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), it is obvious that the ECSA-normalized current density of CoP@PNC/PCWF is clearly higher than that of CoP@NC/CWF, CoP@PNC, Co@NC/CWF, and Pt/C, indicating that the higher UOR electrocatalytic performance of CoP@PNC/PCWF is due to both

Figure 5. a) Nyquist plots of CoP@PNC/PCWF, CoP@NC/CWF, Co@NC/CWF, CoP@PNC, and Pt/C in 1.0  $\,$ M KOH+0.5  $\,$ M urea. b) CV curves of CoP@PNC/PCWF in the non-faradic potential region (1.0–1.1  $\,$ V vs RHE) at various scan rates (20–100  $\,$ mV s<sup>-1</sup>). c) The  $\,$ C<sub>dl</sub> of the as-prepared catalysts. d) The chronoamperometry response of CoP@PNC/PCWF, CoP@NC/CWF at 10  $\,$ mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for UOR.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2022, 24, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202200950 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

the varied electronic structure and the enhanced intrinsic catalytic activity. Another important property to consider when considering a catalyst's practical application is its electrocatalytic durability. The chronoamperometric response of CoP@PNC/ PCWF at 10 mA cm–2 in 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m urea is shown in Figure 5d. After 72 h of continuous operation, the current density is retained at 96.9%, indicating that the CoP@PNC/ PCWF has excellent stability for UOR in alkaline media. While for CoP@NC/CWF, Co@NC/CWF, and CoP@PNC, the potentials increase much larger than that of CoP@PNC/PCWF as shown in Figure 5d and Figure S18 (Supporting Information), indicating that the catalytic durability of these catalysts are obviously lower than that of CoP@PNC/PCWF. When the current density was further increased to 50 mA cm–2, it can maintain 50 h which only increased 4.1%, indicating the remarkable electrocatalytic stability toward the UOR process (Figure S19, Supporting Information). In addition, the structural and chemical stability of the CoP@PNC/PCWF were further investigated by SEM, XRD, and XPS spectra (Figures S20–S22, Supporting Information). The SEM and XRD results show that the polyhedral morphology and main component of the CoP@PNC/ PCWF are nearly unchanged after the long-term stability test. However, as revealed by the XPS spectra, the CoP@PNC/PCWF surfaces were oxidized to oxides and/or hydroxides during the UOR stability test.[53]

#### **2.4. Overall Urea Splitting**

We were inspired by the impressive UOR performance of CoP@PNC/PCWF as an anodic electrocatalyst, and combined it with a superior cathodic electrocatalyst (such as Pt/C) to produce H2. The HER activity of Pt/C electrocatalyst is stable with or without urea in the electrolyte, implying that urea in the solution has little effect on HER activity (Figure S23, Supporting Information). As a result, we built a two-electrode cell for overall urea splitting, with CoP@PNC/PCWF acting as the anode and Pt/C as the cathode. **Figure 6**a shows that the HER||UOR system with Pt/C and CoP@PNC/PCWF electrodes only needs a cell voltage of 1.50 V to reach a current density of 50 mA cm–2, which is significantly lower than the conventional HER||OER system (1.77 V), implying that substituting OER with UOR is an efficient method for energy-saving H2 generation. Furthermore, in a same HER||UOR coupling system, the overall electrocatalytic property of Pt/C ||CoP@PNC/PCWF is even better than Pt/C||Pt/C, with a cell voltage of (1.50 V vs 1.75 V for Pt/C||Pt/C) at a current density of 50 mA cm–2 (Figure 6b). We also investigated the durability of Pt/C||CoP@PNC/PCWF for urea splitting, and found that after 50 h of uninterrupted H2 production at a high current density of 20 mA cm–2, there was no apparent activity decline (Figure 6c). Furthermore, the Pt/C||CoP@PNC/PCWF device is powered by a commercial AA battery with a voltage of 1.50 V to test its viability for implementation. The clear bubbles can be seen in both the cathode and anode of the device (inset in Figure 6c), which should be attributable to H2 and N2/CO2, respectively, demonstrating that the CoP@PNC/PCWF can operate as an efficient anode electrode and shows great prospect for urea-assisted energy-saving H2 generation.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, using a simple simultaneous phosphorization and carbonization strategy, we formed a hybrid porous structure electrocatalyst with ZIF-67-derived CoP nanoparticles embedded in PNC and anchored on PCWF substrate. The incorporation of P into the carbon matrix can alter the electronic structure of carbon, causing more defects to form, potentially optimizing the surface/interface electronic structures of the CoP@PNC/PCWF. Meanwhile, the anchoring effect of PCWF can effectively prevent nanoparticle agglomeration, and provide a reaction-available surface. This synergistic interaction can facilitate improving the electrocatalytic performance of CoP@PNC/PCWF for UOR. To drive the UOR process at a current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , the CoP@PNC/PCWF needed a low potential of 1.32 V (vs RHE) and displayed excellent stability operating for 50 h with almost no decay. Furthermore, the cell voltage required for Pt/C‖CoP@PNC/PCWF (1.50 V) to achieve the current density of 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> was below that of Pt/C‖Pt/C (1.77 V) required during overall urea splitting. This research could lay the foundation for the development of lowcost urea-assisted energy-saving H2 generation and urea-rich water contamination treatment.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Chemicals and Materials*: Co(NO3)2⋅6H2O, 2-methylimidazole (C4H6N2), KOH, urea (CO(NH2)2), were purchased from Adamasbeta. Methanol (CH3OH) was purchased from SCR. Suzhou Sinero Technology Co., Ltd. supplied Nafion solution (5 wt%) and platinum on carbon (Pt/C, 20 wt%). Wood fibers were extracted from poplar pulp fiber. In all experiments, deionized water was used. The chemicals employed in this experiment were all analytical grades and had not been refined any further.

*Synthesis of CoP@PNC/PCWF, CoP@PNC, and PCWF*: The pulp WF were obtained by wood residuals chips which undergoing pretreatment, mechanical conditions and bleaching treatment.[54] Typically, 4.0 mmol Co(NO3)2·6H2O was dissolved in 40 mL CH3OH as solution A, and 0.052 g WF were immersed into solution A kept for 24 h at room temperature. Then, 30 mmol C4H6N2 was dissolved in 40 mL CH3OH as solution B, which was then poured into solution A, and the mixtures were maintained at room temperature for 24 h. The formed purple product ZIF-67/WF was centrifuged, thoroughly washed with CH3OH, and vacuum-dried overnight at 60 °C. The preparation of ZIF-67 powder was similar to that of ZIF-67/WF, with the exception that ZIF-67 powder was not made with WF. ZIF-67/WF was synthesized and placed in a ceramic boat. Meanwhile, 9.4 mmol NaH2PO2·H2O was added to the upstream side of a quartz boat, and then transferred into a tube furnace (ramp rate: 2 °C min–1) under N2 atmosphere. The furnace was heated from room temperature to 250 °C, and then held there for 2 h. The temperature was then raised to 800 °C and held for 4 h. After naturally cooling to room temperature, the CoP@PNC/PCWF was collected. CoP@PNC and PCWF were also synthesized using the same synthesis process, but with ZIF-67 and blank WF as precursor, respectively.

*Synthesis of Co@NC/CWF, CoP@NC/CWF, and CWF*: The as-prepared ZIF-67/WF was placed in a ceramic boat, then placed into a temperatureprogrammed furnace under an N2 atmosphere. The carbonization of ZIF-67/WF was performed at 250 °C for 2 h with a heating ramp rate of 2 °C min–1 from the room temperature, then the temperature was further increased to 800 °C and was kept for 4 h. After naturally cooling to room temperature, the Co@NC/CWF was obtained. CWF was also synthesized using the same synthesis process, but with WF as precursor. To prepare CoP@NC/CWF, the as-synthesized Co@NC/CWF and NaH2PO2·H2O

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**Figure 6.** a) LSV curves of Pt/C|| CoP@PNC/PCWF for overall urea electrolysis in 1.0 m KOH with and without 0.5 m urea. b) LSV curves of urea electrolysis at Pt/C||CoP@PNC/PCWF and Pt/C||Pt/C. c) Chronopotentiometry plots of Pt/C||CoP@PNC/PWCF obtained at a constant current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2(the inset is a digital photo of the overall urea splitting cell).

were placed in separate porcelains, with NaH2PO2·H2O on the upstream side of the tube furnace. The sample was calcined at 250 °C for 2 h with a heating speed of 2 °C min−<sup>1</sup> in N2 atmosphere and after naturally cooled to room temperature to obtain the CoP@NC/CWF.

*Materials Characterizations*: The morphology of as-prepared materials was examined using a transmission electron microscope (TEM, FEI TF20) and field-emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Zeiss, sigma 300,). HAADF-STEM image and elemental mapping were collected by TEM (FEI TF20) equipped with EDX module (Super-X). N2 adsorption–desorption measurements at 77 K on a Micromeritics ASAP 2460 instruments were used to investigate the pore structure. Raman spectra were obtained on a Thermo DXR microscopic laser Raman spectroscopy using 532 nm as a laser. Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) was performed on a Thermo Scientific Nicolet iS10. Power X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained on a Bruker D8 ADVANCE using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.54 Å) under a generator voltage of 40 kV and a generator current of 50 mA. The scanning rate was 10° min–1 in the 2θ range of 5° to 85°. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements equipped with a monochromatic Al Kα radiation source (*hν* = 1486.6 eV) were carried out on the Thermo Scientific ESCALAB Xi<sup>+</sup> spectrometer, and the C 1s peak (284.98 eV) as a calibration reference.

*Electrocatalytic Experiment*: At room temperature, the electrochemical properties of 1.0 m KOH solution without or with urea were evaluated on an electrochemical workstation (GAMRY, Interface 1000) in a standard three-electrode configuration. As counter and reference electrodes, a graphite electrode (spectral grade, 1.8 cm2) and a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) were used, respectively. The working electrodes were made using CoP@PNC/PCWF or other control catalysts modified nickel foam (NF), which were made as follows: the as-synthesized samples (5 mg) and 10 µL Nafion solution (5 wt%) were ultrasonicated for 20 min in 250 L of deionized water: ethanol solution (1:4) to produce a homogeneous catalyst ink. To achieve a loading of 5 mg cm–2, 125 µL of catalyst ink was dropwise applied to the NF with a surface area of 0.5 cm2 for measurements. For the preparation of Pt/C: The commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) powder (5 mg) and 10 L Nafion solution (5 wt%) were ultrasonicated for 20 min in 250 µL of deionized water: ethanol solution (1:4) to form homogeneous ink. The appropriate amount was then dripped onto the cleaned NF and allowed to dry in the air. The measured potentials were calibrated to RHE according to the equation: E (V vs RHE) = E (V vs SCE) + 0.242 + 0.059 pH. The *iR*-corrected polarization curves were recorded in 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m urea solution by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) with a scan rate of 5 mV s–1. Tafel plots are calculated using the equation η = *b* log(*j*)+*a* (where *b* is Tafel slope and *j* is the current density). Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were performed using an AC amplitude of 5 mV and a frequency range of 0.1 to 100 kHz. The double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) was measured electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) with cyclic voltammetry in the potential range of 1.01 to 1.11 V (vs RHE) at different scan rates of 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 mV s–1. The linear slope *C*dl is calculated by plotting the *j* (*j* = *j*a – *j*c)/2 at a potential of 1.06 V (vs RHE) against the scan rate. In addition, ECSA can be calculated from the *C*dl

SMQ

16136289, 2022, 24, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202200990 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

by using the specific capacitance value for a flat standard with 1 cm<sup>2</sup> of real surface area. For the estimates of surface area, general specific capacitances of  $C_s=0.040~\rm mF~cm^{-2}$  based on typical reported values were used. ECSA was calculated as follows:

$$A_{\text{ECSA}}^{\text{catalyst}} = \frac{C_{\text{dl}}^{\text{catalyst}} \left( \text{mF cm}^{-2} \right)}{C_{\text{s}} \left( \text{mF cm}^{-2} \right) \text{per cm}_{\text{ECSA}}^{2}} \tag{1}$$

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by National Science Foundation of China (31890771, 21905307, and 31922057), the science and technology innovation Program of Hunan Province (2021RC3103), the Hunan Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (2020JJ5964), and Hunan Graduate Scientific Research Innovation Project (CX20210865). The authors thank Prof. Kuizhong Shen from Chinese Academy of Forestry, Institute of Chemical Industry of Forest Products for the supply of poplar pulp fiber. They also thank the Shiyanjia Lab (www.shiyanjia.com) for the support of TEM/HRTEM and XPS tests.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## Keywords

carbonized wood fibers, CoP, electrocatalysis, urea oxidation reaction, 71F-67

Received: February 13, 2022 Revised: April 5, 2022 Published online: May 13, 2022

- [1] M. S. Dresselhaus, I. L. Thomas, Nature 2001, 414, 332.
- [2] S. Deng, Y. Zhong, Y. Zeng, Y. Wang, Z. Yao, F. Yang, S. Lin, X. Wang, X. Lu, X. Xia, J. Tu, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1700748.
- [3] J. X. Feng, S. Y. Tong, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140. 5118.
- [4] J. Zhu, L. Hu, P. Zhao, L. Y. S. Lee, K. Y. Wong, Chem. Rev. 2020, 120, 851.
- [5] X. F. Lu, L. Yu, X. W. Lou, Sci. Adv. 2019, 5, 6009.
- [6] J. Du, F. Li, L. Sun, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 2663.
- [7] C. F. Li, J. W. Zhao, L. J. Xie, J. Q. Wu, Q. Ren, Y. Wang, G. R. Li, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 18129.
- [8] L. Gao, C. Tang, J. Liu, L. He, H. Wang, Z. Ke, W. Li, C. Jiang, D. He, L. Cheng, X. Xiao, Energy Environ. Mater. 2020, 4, 392.
- [9] H. Xue, A. Meng, H. Zhang, Y. Lin, Z. Li, C. Wang, Nano Res. 2021, 14, 4173.

- [10] Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, Angew Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 5984.
- [11] Y. Zhang, B. Zhou, Z. Wei, W. Zhou, D. Wang, J. Tian, T. Wang, S. Zhao, J. Liu, L. Tao, S. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, 2104791.
- [12] K. Wang, W. Huang, Q. Cao, Y. Zhao, X. Sun, R. Ding, W. Lin, E. Liu, P. Gao, Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 427, 130865.
- [13] Z. Y. Yu, C. C. Lang, M. R. Gao, Y. Chen, Q. Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S. H. Yu, Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 1890.
- [14] X. Xu, T. Guo, J. Xia, B. Zhao, G. Su, H. Wang, M. Huang, A. Toghan, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 425, 130514.
- [15] A. Kumar, X. H. Liu, J. Lee, B. Debnath, A. R. Jadhav, X. D. Shao, V. Q. Bui, Y. Hwang, Y. Liu, M. G. Kim, H. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* 2021, 14, 6494.
- [16] G. Wang, Y. Ling, X. Lu, H. Wang, F. Qian, Y. Tong, Y. Li, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 8215.
- [17] X. Xu, P. Du, T. Guo, B. Zhao, H. Wang, M. Huang, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2020, 8, 7463.
- [18] Y. Huang, S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z. P. Wu, D. Luan, X. W. Lou, Angew Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 11841.
- [19] T. Ouyang, Y. Q. Ye, C. Y. Wu, K. Xiao, Z. Q. Liu, Angew Chem., Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 4923.
- [20] C. F. Li, J. W. Zhao, L. J. Xie, J. Q. Wu, G. R. Li, Appl. Catal., B 2021, 291, 119987.
- [21] F. Zhu, J. Xue, L. Zeng, J. Shang, S. Lu, X. Cao, B. F. Abrahams, H. Gu, J. Lang, Nano Res. 2021, 15, 1020.
- [22] S. K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S. Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H. B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q. H. Liu, S. Z. Qiao, Nat. Energy 2021, 6, 904.
- [23] B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, Small 2020, 16, e1906133.
- [24] Y. Feng, X. Wang, J. Huang, P. Dong, J. Ji, J. Li, L. Cao, L. Feng, P. Jin, C. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, 390, 124525.
- [25] H. Jiang, M. Z. Sun, S. L. Wu, B. L. Huang, C. S. Lee, W. J. Zhang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2104951.
- [26] X. Tao, H. Xu, S. Luo, Y. Wu, C. Tian, X. Lu, Y. Qing, Appl. Catal., B 2020, 279, 119367.
- [27] B. Zhang, Y. Zheng, T. Ma, C. Yang, Y. Peng, Z. Zhou, M. Zhou, S. Li, Y. Wang, C. Cheng, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, 2006042.
- [28] Z. X. Cai, Z. L. Wang, Y. J. Xia, H. Lim, W. Zhou, A. Taniguchi, M. Ohtani, K. Kobiro, T. Fujita, Y. Yamauchi, *Angew Chem.*, *Int. Ed.* 2021, 60, 4747.
- [29] X. F. Lu, L. Yu, J. Zhang, X. W. Lou, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1900699.
- [30] H. Lei, S. Yang, Q. Wan, L. Ma, M. S. Javed, S. Tan, Z. Wang, W. Mai, J. Energy Chem. 2022, 68, 78.
- [31] S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z. P. Wu, D. Luan, X. W. Lou, Angew Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 19068.
- [32] Y. L. Wu, X. Li, Y. S. Wei, Z. Fu, W. Wei, X. T. Wu, Q. L. Zhu, Q. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, 2006965.
- [33] W. Li, J. Liu, P. F. Guo, H. Z. Li, B. Fei, Y. H. Guo, H. G. Pan, D. L. Sun, F. Fang, R. B. Wu, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2102134.
- [34] G. Cai, W. Zhang, L. Jiao, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *Chem* **2017**, *2*, 791.
- [35] C. Yang, Q. Wu, W. Xie, X. Zhang, A. Brozena, J. Zheng, M. N. Garaga, B. H. Ko, Y. Mao, S. He, Y. Gao, P. Wang, M. Tyagi, F. Jiao, R. Briber, P. Albertus, C. Wang, S. Greenbaum, Y. Y. Hu, A. Isogai, M. Winter, K. Xu, Y. Qi, L. Hu, *Nature* 2021, 598, 590.
- [36] M. Song, X. Tao, Y. Wu, Y. Qing, C. Tian, H. Xu, X. Lu, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 421, 129751.
- [37] Z. Li, X. Zhang, Y. Kang, C. C. Yu, Y. Wen, M. Hu, D. Meng, W. Song, Y. Yang, Adv. Sci. 2021, 8, 2002631.
- [38] S. Dou, C. L. Dong, Z. Hu, Y. C. Huang, J. L. Chen, L. Tao, D. Yan, D. Chen, S. Shen, S. Chou, S. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 27, 1702546.
- [39] C. F. Li, J. W. Zhao, L. J. Xie, J. Q. Wu, G. R. Li, Appl. Catal., B 2021, 282, 119463.
- [40] J. Yu, W. J. Li, G. B. Kao, C. Y. Xu, R. R. Chen, Q. Liu, J. Y. Liu, H. S. Zhang, J. Wang, J. Energy Chem. 2021, 60, 111.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

- [41] W. C. Xu, G. L. Fan, S. L. Zhu, Y. Q. Liang, Z. D. Cui, Z. Y. Li, H. Jiang, S. L. Wu, F. Y. Cheng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2107333.
- [42] H. Liu, J. Guan, S. Yang, Y. Yu, R. Shao, Z. Zhang, M. Dou, F. Wang, Q. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003649.
- [43] L. Wang, J. Fan, Y. Liu, M. Chen, Y. Lin, H. Bi, B. Liu, N. Shi, D. Xu, J. Bao, M. Han, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2010912.
- [44] Y. Zhou, G. Chen, Q. Wang, D. Wang, X. Tao, T. Zhang, X. Feng, K. Müllen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102420.
- [45] J. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, L. Dai, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2015**, *10*, 444.
- [46] H. Luo, W. J. Jiang, Y. Zhang, S. Niu, T. Tang, L. B. Huang, Y. Y. Chen, Z. Wei, J. S. Hu, *Carbon* **2018**, *128*, 97.
- [47] D. Wang, N. He, L. Xiao, F. Dong, W. Chen, Y. Zhou, C. Chen, S. Wang, *Angew Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 24605.

- [48] H. Q. Li, L. Chen, P. F. Jin, Y. F. Li, J. X. Pang, J. Hou, S. L. Peng, G. Wang, Y. L. Shi, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 950.
- [49] L. Zhang, L. Wang, H. Lin, Y. Liu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, A. Chen, L. Wang, F. Ni, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, Y. Li, B. Zhang, H. Peng, *Angew Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 16820.
- [50] D. Z. Guo, X. Li, Y. Q. Jiao, H. J. Yan, A. P. Wu, G. C. Yang, Y. Wang, C. G. Tian, H. G. Fu, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 238.
- [51] Z. Wang, L. Xu, F. Huang, L. Qu, J. Li, K. A. Owusu, Z. Liu, Z. Lin, B. Xiang, X. Liu, K. Zhao, X. Liao, W. Yang, Y. B. Cheng, L. Mai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1900390.
- [52] C. C. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16977.
- [53] X. W. Yu, J. Zhao, M. Johnsson, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2101578.
- [54] Y. Chen, K. Shen, G. Li, *Nord. Pulp Pap. Res. J.* **2020**, *35*, 631.