---
source: Klahan 等 - 2024 - Copper‐Nickel Alloy Modified‐Silicon Photoanodes for Photoelectrochemical Water Oxidation and Urea O.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 28.821s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:00:33.340796Z
---

<www.chemnanomat.org>

# **Copper-Nickel Alloy Modified-Silicon Photoanodes for Photoelectrochemical Water Oxidation and Urea Oxidation**

[Kanokwan](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2345-1632) Klahan,[a] [Gabriel](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-4809-5013) Loget,[b] and Pichaya [Pattanasattayavong\\*](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6374-1840)[a]

The development of silicon (Si) photoanodes for photoelectrochemical (PEC) oxidation is highly crucial for the progress of solar-driven hydrogen production. Apart from the typical water oxidation reaction or oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is gaining more attention due to favorable thermodynamics. In this work, we study Si photoanodes modified with electrodeposited copper-nickel (CuNi) alloy for OER and UOR. The optimized photoanodes exhibit a low onset potential of 1.15 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and a current density of 6 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V vs RHE (the

thermodynamic potential for water oxidation) for OER. Further, CuNi alloy-modified photoanodes can drive the UOR at a lower onset potential (1.05 V vs RHE) and generate a higher current density of 31 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V vs RHE. Importantly, the CuNi alloy can extend the stability for UOR under PEC conditions when compared to a planar Ni film deposited by a vacuumbased process. This work demonstrates that CuNi alloy can further improve the properties of inhomogeneous metalinsulator-semiconductor Si photoanodes which can be efficiently utilized for both OER and UOR.

# **Introduction**

Photoelectrochemical (PEC) hydrogen production is one of the promising ways to harvest solar energy into a chemical form. In this case, electricity and sunlight are combined to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. While hydrogen can be efficiently produced at the cathodic side (hydrogen evolution reaction, HER),[1,2] the anodic reaction for water oxidation or oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is greatly limited by poor kinetics.[3] As a result, alternative reactions, e.g., urea oxidation reaction (UOR), alcohol oxidation, or 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) oxidation,[4–6] have attracted great interest because, when coupled with the HER, they can reduce the required energy input and make the overall process more efficient.

Silicon (Si) has become a promising candidate as photoanodes for PEC water oxidation because of its abundance, appropriate band gap/electronic properties, and technological availability.[7,8] However, Si photoanodes have poor catalytic activity for OER and suffer from degradation during the operation. Several strategies have been devised to overcome these challenges, for example, nanostructuring, protective layer coating, or junction engineering.[9–12] Among these methods, coating the Si surface with a high work function metal provides several advantages. Firstly, a metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) junction [composed of Si (the semiconductor), its native or chemically-produced oxide SiOx (the insulator), and the metal] can be formed, leading to a higher photovoltage, i. e., more energy can be harvested from the sunlight.[13–16] Furthermore, several transition metals are highly active for OER and can greatly improve reaction kinetics. Lastly, the coating layer can offer some protection to the Si surface from degradation (e.g., anodic passivation).[13–16] Various transition metals and their alloys have been studied, with Ni, Co, and Fe being prominent selections due to their high performance.[14,17–20] While the metal layer can be either homogeneous or inhomogeneous,[21] recent reports show that the inhomogeneous MIS Si photoanodes exhibit superior PEC performance for OER as reflected in larger photovoltages.[22–25] To this end, cathodic electrodeposition is a simple and cost-effective way to inhomogeneously coat Si photoanodes with metal nanoparticles (NPs) or nanostructures.[19,26–29]

As mentioned above, an alternative oxidation reaction to OER that has recently gained attention is UOR,[30–34] which requires significantly less energy, resulting in a lower potential to trigger the redox reaction. Ni-based electrocatalysts are highly promising for UOR and have been extensively studied,[35] but the applications of Ni co-catalyst coatings on Si photoanodes for PEC reactions (also involving light) have only begun to appear and are still limited. So far, they usually feature a planar Ni film coating (deposited with vacuum-based processes) which is then modified with an additional layer.[23,24,36,37]

An opportunity to improve Ni-based catalysts further for UOR is to alloy it with Cu. CuNi alloy has been shown to yield a better catalytic activity toward UOR along with a higher resistance for catalyst poisoning.[24,38–40] In this work, we inhomogeneously coated Si photoanodes with CuNi alloy NPs by electrodeposition and studied their performance for OER and UOR. By controlling electrochemical parameters, the composition and morphology/thickness of the alloy could be systematically varied. For OER, the optimized CuNi alloy-

<sup>[</sup>a] *K. Klahan, Dr. P. Pattanasattayavong Department of Materials Science and Engineering School of Molecular Science and Engineering Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology Wangchan, Rayong 21210, Thailand E-mail: pichaya.p@vistec.ac.th*

<sup>[</sup>b] *Dr. G. Loget University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux INP, ISM, UMR CNRS 5255, F-33607 Pessac, France*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/cnma.202400036>*

modified Si photoanodes provided up to 6 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V [unless otherwise specified, all potentials in this article are referred vs the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)] with an onset potential (*E*onset) of 1.16 V. In the presence of urea (UOR), *E*onset was lowered to 1.05 V while the current density reached a value of 31 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V. When compared to Si photoanodes coated with a planar Ni film, the stability and UOR catalytic activity of the photoanodes coated with CuNi alloy were also significantly better.

# **Results and Discussion**

#### **Effects of the Electrodeposition Charge Density on Morphology and Composition**

CuNi alloy was deposited on Si photoanodes via electrodeposition from the solution containing nickel sulfate (NiSO4), copper sulfate (CuSO4), and sodium citrate dihydrate (SCD) as the complexing agent (see full description in the Supporting Information, SI). The electrodeposition of CuNi alloy in the citrate bath has been extensively studied and found to yield good alloy quality with high uniformity and smoothness.[41–43] Due to the significant difference in the reduction potentials of Cu and Ni, SCD is required to co-deposit the alloy by forming metal complexes and shifting the reduction potentials of the metals closer to each other.[44,45] In our method, the electrodeposition was performed at a constant cathodic potential of 1.2 V vs saturated calomel electrode (SCE). To precisely control the amount of the deposited metal, we varied the charge density instead of the deposition time. Each photoanode is annotated as "CuNi X" where X is the electrodeposition charge density (ECD) in mC cm <sup>2</sup> .

The chronoamperometric curves during the electrodeposition onto n-Si (for PEC) with different charge densities (Figure S1a, SI) demonstrate excellent reproducibility of our experimental procedures as the curves followed the same trace. The electrodeposition on highly-doped, degenerate p<sup>+</sup>-Si (employed for dark studies to evaluate the electrocatalytic performance) under the same conditions exhibited similar characteristics (Figure S1b), indicating that samples deposited on n-Si and p<sup>+</sup>-Si can be judiciously compared. The morphology and composition of CuNi alloy with different ECD were investigated with scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (SEM-EDS) as shown in Figure 1a–f (higher magnification displayed in Figure S1c–h, SI). At low ECD (5– 15 mCcm <sup>2</sup> ), small NPs were formed and covered most of the Si surface, but the exposed substrate area was still apparent. When the ECD was increased, the film became denser and thicker due to the higher amount of metal deposited. The film thickness of CuNi-50 and CuNi-100 were determined to be 24� 2 nm and 35�3 nm using cross-sectional SEM, respectively (Figure 1g and h). As expected, a thicker film was obtained with a higher ECD. The variation in the charge density also alters the composition of CuNi alloy as shown in Figure 1i. With the increasing ECD, the atomic percentage of Cu decreased while that of Ni correspondingly increased. This suggests that a higher amount of Cu is deposited at the early stage while the electrodeposition of Ni dominates in the later stage.

**Figure 1.** SEM images of CuNi alloy with different ECD: (a) 5, (b) 10, (c) 15, (d) 20, (e) 50, and (f) 100 mCcm <sup>2</sup> . Cross-sectional SEM images of CuNi alloy with ECD of (g) 50 and (h) 100 mCcm <sup>2</sup> . (i) Atomic percentages of Cu and Ni present in the CuNi alloy electrodeposited with different charge densities. (j) Cyclic voltammograms of n-Si/SiOx/CuNi electrodeposited with different charge densities tested in 1 M KOH under simulated sunlight (1 sun, AM1.5G).

#### **Photoelectrochemical Water Oxidation Performance**

Before comparing the performance, each n-Si/SiOx/CuNi photoanode was cycled between 0.9 and 1.8 V for up to 100– 200 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles in 1 M KOH under simulated sunlight (1 sun, AM1.5G) until the current reached its highest level (Figure S2a–f). The performance improvement gained from this CV cycling is referred to as the activation process and will be discussed further in the next section. Cyclic voltammograms (recorded in 1 M KOH) of photoanodes prepared with different ECD after activation are shown in Figure 1j. The photoanodes prepared with 5, 10, and 15 mCcm <sup>2</sup> exhibited comparable performance with an *E*onset of ~1.15 V and a current density of ~6–8 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V. As the charge density increased, *E*onset shifted to higher potentials while the lightlimited current density (measured at the plateau) also decreased. The latter phenomenon is attributed to the CuNi layer becoming thicker and denser, inhibiting light absorption by the underlying Si. Table S1 (SI) summarizes the performance parameters of each photoanode. The electrocatalytic activity of the CuNi 'itself' was studied by depositing the alloy on p<sup>+</sup>-Si. As shown in Figure S3, all electrodes exhibited similar characteristics (except for 5 mCcm <sup>2</sup> which we ascribe to a higher content of Cu than Ni in this case).[46,47] This result suggests that the electrocatalytic properties of the samples were similar and that the differences in PEC performance should arise from different photophysical properties.

The stability of each photoanode was studied by monitoring the current density when continuously operated at 1.8 V under 1-sun illumination in 1 M KOH (pH=14) as shown in Figure S4a. As the ECD increased, the stability of the photoanode improved. We postulate that this behavior could arise from two main reasons. The first is that the thicker and denser CuNi alloy at high ECD can protect the Si surface from the harsh environment better. The second aspect is related to the composition of the coating which changes upon the variation of ECD. The alloy containing a higher amount of Cu (at low ECD) might be more prone to degradation in the highly alkaline electrolyte. This is supported by the study of the Si photoanodes modified by sputtered Cu film which degrade faster when compared to Ni film.[14,48] With these results combined, we selected ECD= 15 mCcm <sup>2</sup> (sample CuNi-15) as the optimal condition since it provided photoanodes with a low *E*onset, high current density, and considerable stability. When operated in the Li-borate/Kborate buffer (pH=9.6),[49] the stability could be extended by about 8 times as shown in Figure S4b. From this point onwards, unless otherwise stated, the CuNi samples that are discussed were those prepared with the optimal ECD.

#### **Effects of the Activation Process**

Through the initial CV cycling (the 'activation' step), *E*onset was reduced while the slope and current density were increased. For example, CuNi-15 showed a 190 mV decrease in *E*onset after the activation by cycling through 200 scans between 0.9 and 1.8 V as shown in Figure 2a. SEM-EDS was performed on the optimized photoanode (CuNi-15) before and after the activation to investigate the change in the morphology and composition. As shown in Figure 2b and c, the surface and composition of the CuNi alloy changed drastically upon activation. The morphology became more inhomogeneous with larger but more irregular nanostructures while the Cu content decreased from 41 to 13 at.% (atomic percent). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was also conducted to study the changes in the chemical state. In Figure 2d, the wide scan spectra appeared to indicate the decrease of both Cu and Ni after the activation process. The reduction in the amount of Cu was consistent with

**Figure 2.** (a) Cyclic voltammograms of the n-Si/SiOx/CuNi-15 sample before and after activation, highlighting the change of *E*onset. SEM images of the (b) asdeposited and (c) activated n-Si/SiOx/CuNi-15 photoanodes. (d) Survey XPS spectra before/after activation.

the EDS result. The changes in both the morphology and composition of the CuNi alloy through electrochemical processes have been ascribed to dealloying.[50–52] Cu metal in CuNi alloy is oxidized and leaches out while a layer of NiOx is formed in the alkaline condition. This passive oxide layer can protect the metal core from further dealloying.[51]

We investigated the samples in more detail by depthprofiling XPS using Ar<sup>+</sup> ion etching. The wide scan spectra at different etching time are shown in Figure S5. The progression from Cu- and Ni-dominant to Si-dominant signals can be observed. The narrow scans and deconvoluted peaks of Cu 2p and Ni 2p states of the as-deposited sample are displayed in Figure 3a–d while those of the activated sample are shown in Figure 3e–h. We then used the data to quantify the composition of the alloy at various depths as summarized in Table S2. Interestingly, a systematic variation in the composition was observed. The composition of the as-deposited CuNi alloy was dominated by Cu at the surface. After several seconds of surface etching, the bulk composition contained a slightly higher amount of Ni. Close to the Si substrate, the atomic percentage of Ni then became greatly dominant. Thus, we may deduce that Ni is nucleated first at the early stage of the electrodeposition, followed by similar rates of Cu and Ni deposition, and finally Cu deposition dominates at the later stage.

The chemical states of Cu and Ni could be distinguished from the deconvoluted XPS data. At the surface (etching time of 1 and 3 s), the Cu 2p3/2 spectrum of the as-deposited CuNi alloy (Figure 3c) contained two peaks located at 932.7 eV (Cu<sup>0</sup> ) and 933.7 eV (Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>), which can be assigned to metallic Cu and CuO, respectively.[48,53] The relative peak areas suggested that the surface Cu was mostly metallic with a slight amount of CuO. As we looked deeper into the film with longer etching time

**Figure 3.** Depth-profiling narrow scan XPS spectra of (a) Cu 2p and (b) Ni 2p of the as-deposited n-Si/SiOx/CuNi-15 photoanode. Deconvoluted (c) Cu 2p3/2 and (d) Ni 2p3/2 spectra of the as-deposited photoanode at different etching times. Lighter shaded areas represent the metallic state whereas darker shaded areas represent the oxidized phase. (e–h) Analogous set of data for the activated sample. (i) Illustration of CuNi alloy on the Si photoanode before and after the activation.

, 8, Downloaded from https://aces.onlineibtrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cmna.202400036 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/11/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlineibtrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons

(e.g., at 13 s), CuO was absent. We note also that Cu<sub>2</sub>O could not be completely ruled out due to the weak satellite peak, and the characteristic Cu 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks for Cu<sub>2</sub>O and Cu appear at a similar binding energy. At the surface (etching time of 1 and 3 s), the Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> spectrum was composed of metallic Ni at 852.9 eV (Ni<sup>0</sup>) and NiO at 853.7 eV (Ni<sup>2+</sup>) (Figure 3d).<sup>[54,55]</sup> Similarly, the proportion of the Ni oxide phase was also reduced deeper into the sample (higher etching time). This result suggests that the electrodeposited CuNi alloy was mostly in the metallic state in the bulk with the presence of a thin oxide layer at the surface as illustrated in Figure 3i.

After the activation process, the Cu 2p intensity became significantly lower than that of Ni 2p. This further confirms that the dissolution of Cu is greater during the activation process. As shown earlier (Table S2), the surface of the activated photoanode was dominated by Ni up to 80 at.%. The deconvoluted Cu  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  spectra of the activated photoanode are displayed in Figure 3g and h, respectively. It is evident that the proportion of the oxide phases, CuO at 933.7 eV (Cu<sup>2+</sup>) and NiO at 853.8 eV (Ni<sup>2+</sup>), [48,53-55] became much higher when compared to the as-deposited sample. Moreover, a small peak at 855.0 eV appeared, indicating the formation of Ni(OH)2 after the activation (also Ni<sup>2+</sup>).<sup>[55]</sup> During the activation process, both Cu and Ni are oxidized, resulting in an enrichment of NiO and a loss of Cu.[51] Deeper into the sample, the amounts of the oxidized phases were lower. It can be summarized that the activation process leads to the dealloying of Cu and the formation of the passive NiO<sub>x</sub> layer at the surface as illustrated in Figure 3i.

#### Insights into the Photoelectrochemical Performance

Detailed analyses of the electrical properties and PEC performance were conducted to further elucidate the effects of the activation. Mott-Schottky (M—S) plots between  $1/C^2$  vs E, where C is the capacitance and E is the applied potential, of the asdeposited and activated photoanodes are shown in Figure 4a (please refer to SI for discussion on the use of potential scale with respect to the ferri/ferrocyanide redox couple). The flat band potential ( $E_{fb}$  in V) can be obtained from the M—S plot based on Eq. (1):

$$\frac{1}{C^2} = \frac{2}{\varepsilon_0 \varepsilon_{\rm SI} q N_{\rm d}} \left( E - E_{\rm fb} - \frac{k_{\rm B} T}{q} \right) \tag{1}$$

where  $\varepsilon_0$  represents the vacuum permittivity,  $\varepsilon_{\rm Si}$  the relative permittivity of the semiconductor (Si), q the elementary charge,  $N_{\rm d}$  the concentration of donors in n-Si,  $k_{\rm B}$  the Boltzmann constant, and T the temperature.  $E_{\rm fb}$  can be determined by subtracting the x-intercept of the linear region in the M–S plot with  $k_{\rm B}T/q$ . From the x-intercept values of -0.507 and -0.721 V for the as-deposited and activated photoanodes,  $E_{\rm fb}$  was calculated to be -0.533 and -0.747 V, respectively. From the slope of the M–S plot,  $N_{\rm d}$  was found to be  $2.00\times10^{15}$  and  $2.85\times10^{15}$  cm<sup>-3</sup> for the as-deposited and activated photoanodes, respectively. These  $N_{\rm d}$  values correspond to a resistivity around

**Figure 4.** (a) Mott-Schottky plots of the as-deposited and activated photo-anodes in 1 M KCl + 0.5 mM  $\rm K_3Fe(CN)_6$ / $\rm K_4Fe(CN)_6$ . Schematic energy band diagrams of the (b) as-deposited and (c) activated photoanodes displaying the barrier height of each system. VB and CB denote the valence band and conduction band, respectively.

 $2\,\Omega\cdot\text{cm}$  which is consistent with the specifications from the manufacturer (1–10  $\Omega\cdot\text{cm}),$  verifying the validity of our M–S analysis.

The effective barrier height ( $\phi_b$ ) can be calculated from  $E_{fb}$  and the energy difference between the conduction band and the Fermi level ( $\phi_n$ ) using Eq. (2). The latter is in turn calculated from Eq. (3), where  $N_c$  or the effective density of states in the conduction band equals to  $3\times10^{19}\,\mathrm{cm}^{-3}$  for Si at room temperature. [56]

$$\phi_{\rm b} = -qE_{\rm fb} + \phi_{\rm n} \tag{2}$$

$$\phi_{\rm n} = k_{\rm B} T \ln \left( \frac{N_{\rm c}}{N_{\rm d}} \right) \tag{3}$$

The  $\phi_{\rm b}$  values of 0.780 eV and 0.985 eV were determined for the as-deposited and activated photoanodes, respectively. This data allowed us to construct the schematic energy band diagrams as illustrated in Figure 4b and c. It is apparent that the activation step results in a larger band bending which generally provides more photovoltage and higher performance for PEC water oxidation as widely reported in the literature. [15,25,28,57,58] The higher degree of film inhomogeneity can be attributed to

dealloying during the activation step which leads to the modulation of the junction behavior.[59] Thus, the activation process is very crucial for the high-performance photoanodes.

To assess the effects of the activation on the photovoltage, we compared the photoanodes against the electrocatalytic (EC) control sample using p<sup>+</sup>-Si as the substrate. The photovoltage was determined by the difference in *E*onset between n-Si/SiOx/ CuNi (under 1-sun illumination) and p<sup>+</sup>-Si/SiOx/CuNi (in the dark) at a current density of 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . The voltammograms of the two samples at different potential scan cycles are shown in Figure S6. When we tracked *E*onset, the two sample types displayed different behaviors (Figure 5a). For the control sample on p<sup>+</sup>-Si, *E*onset initially decreased but settled after 50 potential scans and showed little to no change after that. On the contrary, *E*onset of the n-Si photoanode continued to decrease over several potential scans. The photovoltage calculated from the difference between *E*onset of the n-Si photoanode and the p<sup>+</sup> -Si electrode was initially 226 mV during the first 50 cycles and increased to 365 mV at the end of the 200th cycle as shown in Figure 5b.

While the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) is a traditional parameter used for comparing catalytic activity, its quantification is not straightforward. This is especially true for Ni-based catalysts, for which the determination of ECSA is confounded by the complex electrochemistry and phases of Ni, and different methods yield varying results.[60,61] In this work, we compared the change in the number of electrochemically active Ni sites by analyzing the well-defined quasi-reversible NiIII/NiII redox peaks (anodic and cathodic peaks before the current onset) present in Figure S6. Specifically, the number of electrochemically active Ni sites can be estimated by integrating the redox peaks and calculating the charge.[62,63] Note that in this case we compared the cathodic peaks to avoid interference from the OER current on the anodic peaks. It is found that the number of active sites increased over the potential cycling for both the p<sup>+</sup> -Si EC and n-Si PEC systems. Their numbers were initially similar before the amount in n-Si became slightly higher at the late potential scans (Figure S7a). Focusing on the n-Si PEC system, the charge density associated with the NiIII/NiII peak increased from 0.44 to 2.92 mCcm <sup>2</sup> (equivalent to an increase in the number of electrochemically addressable Ni sites from 2.75×10<sup>15</sup> to 1.83×10<sup>16</sup> cm <sup>2</sup> ), representing an enhancement of 6.6 times following the activation. This can also support the observed increase in the activity of the activated photoanodes.

SEM-EDS images (Figure S7b and c) of p<sup>+</sup>-Si/SiOx/CuNi (prepared with the same ECD of 15 mCcm <sup>2</sup> ) also exhibited similar morphology and composition before and after the activation as those of n-Si/SiOx/CuNi. This suggests that the reduction in *E*onset of the photoanode during the early stage arises from the improvement of the electrocatalytic activity. The continuous shift in *E*onset in the case of the photoactive n-Si/ SiOx/CuNi can be attributed to the change in the junction behavior due to the inhomogeneous structure of the coating layer and the *in-situ* formation of SiOx. [59] The increase in both the effective barrier height and photovoltage after the activation process could be from the higher degree in the inhomogeneity after the activation, which has been previously demonstrated in other reports.[23,24,59]

In addition, we employed electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) to determine the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) at the photoanode surface. The measurements were carried out under 1-sun illumination at *E*onset, i. e., 1.324 V for the asdeposited sample and 1.174 V for the activated sample. The data shown in Figure 5c allowed *R*ct to be obtained from fitting with the standard equivalent circuit (inset). As reported in Table S3, *R*ct decreased by a factor of 2.6 after the activation, indicating a more efficient surface toward OER which could be ascribed to the formation of the active metal oxide species during the dealloying process as evident from the XPS measurements. We note that the small noticeable shift in the series resistance (*R*s) in Figure 5c could be due to variations in the experimental setup, such as electrode area, electrode distance, back Ohmic contact, or electrical connections. The resistance of the electrolyte did not vary as confirmed by an EIS measurement using a Pt wire before and after the activation process.

**Figure 5.** (a) Onset potential (*E*onset) vs the number of CV cycles of n-Si/SiOx/CuNi under 1-sun illumination and p<sup>+</sup>-Si/SiOx/CuNi in the dark, tested in 1 M KOH. (b) Photovoltage vs the number of CV cycles of n-Si/SiOx/CuNi. (c) Nyquist plots from impedance spectroscopy performed at *E*onset of the as-deposited and activated photoanodes. The inset shows the equivalent circuit model: *R*<sup>s</sup> the series resistance, *R*ct the charge transfer resistance, and CPE the constant phase element.

#### **Photoelectrochemical Urea Oxidation**

Next, we investigated the PEC urea oxidation of n-Si/SiOx/CuNi. Running multiple CV cycles in 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea also resulted in the activation of the samples (Figure S8). The voltammograms of the activated photoanodes prepared from different ECD are shown in Figure 6a. CuNi-5 was not stable and showed poor performance. Similar to the abovementioned results, CuNi-15 exhibited the best performance with the lowest *E*onset around 1.05 V. At the water oxidation potential, the current density reached 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , almost equal to its maximum value. These characteristics suggest that the n-Si photoanodes modified with CuNi alloy are promising for UOR.

We then compared the PEC urea oxidation performance of CuNi against different Ni co-catalyst systems, i. e., Ni nanoparticles (Ni-NPs) prepared by electrodeposition and planar Ni film (Ni-film) prepared by thermal evaporation. As shown in Figure 6b, the CuNi-modified n-Si photoanode improved over the CV cycling (due to the activation process discussed above). On the other hand, for n-Si modified with Ni-NPs, the sample degraded rapidly during the CV, indicating the poor stability of this system for UOR (Figure 6c). The photoanode coated with 10-nm Ni-film system also exhibited the improvement over the CV cycling and, in fact, provided the best performance with *E*onset of 0.85 V and a maximum current density of 35 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at the water oxidation potential (Figure 6d). We note that the Nifilm, when tested for OER only (no urea), also exhibited an improvement in the onset potential over multiple scans as shown in Figure S9a. This phenomenon can be explained by the change in the morphology of the Ni-film surface during cyclic voltammetry (Figure S9b and c) that contributed to a larger barrier height, similar to the observation in CuNi alloy. The case of Ni film has been studied in detail previously.[59]

In Figure 7a, the PEC performances of the activated n-Si photoanodes modified with different co-catalysts are compared in the absence/presence of urea. When there was no urea, only water oxidation occurred (dashed lines). As can be observed, the Ni-film yielded the highest performance for both UOR and OER although this sample suffered from more degradation as discussed later. For the electrodeposited CuNi alloy and Ni-NPs, the PEC performances without urea were comparable. In the presence of urea, n-Si/SiOx/CuNi showed a clear improvement with a cathodic shift of *E*onset because UOR is more energetically favorable than OER (similar observation for Ni-film).[4,64,65] However, the sample modified with Ni-NPs was not stable. The PEC performance parameters are summarized in Table S4.

To assess the parameters affecting the performance of the photoanodes, the electrocatalytic properties of CuNi and Ni-film

**Figure 6.** (a) Cyclic voltammograms of activated n-Si/SiOx/CuNi photoanodes prepared with different ECD in 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea. Cyclic voltammograms at various CV cycles of (b) n-Si/SiOx/CuNi-15 (c) n-Si/SiOx/Ni-NPs (d) n-Si/SiOx/Ni-film in 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea. All data were recorded with 1-sun illumination.

2199692x, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://aces.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cnma.202400036 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 7.** (a) Cyclic voltammograms of n-Si modified with electrodeposited CuNi alloy, electrodeposited Ni-NPs, and thermally evaporated planar Ni-film in 1 M KOH (for OER, dashed lines) and 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea (for UOR, solid lines) under dark and 1-sun illumination. All samples produced negligible current density under dark condition. (b) Linear sweep voltammograms of p<sup>+</sup>-Si modified with CuNi, Ni-NPs, and Ni-film in 1 M KOH (dashed lines) and 1 M KOH +0.33 M urea (solid lines) under dark condition to show the electrocatalytic activity. (c) Cyclic voltammograms in 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea at different cycles (thick lines: forward scans; thin lines: reverse scans).

were studied on p<sup>+</sup>-Si in the dark. As shown in Figure 7b, the Ni-film exhibited marginally better OER electrocatalytic activity than CuNi alloy. In the presence of urea, the current density drastically increased at the same potential as the NiIII/NiII redox peaks. It has been suggested that the formation of NiOOH species is linked to high UOR activity.[66,67] The drop in the current after the UOR peak could be ascribed to the kinetic limit.[66] Due to the adsorption of urea, its intermediates, and products, these components can block the active sites and suppress the oxidation reaction.[68] Finally, the rise in the current following that (at potentials higher than 1.5–1.6 V) was due to OER. Comparing the UOR performance, it is evident that CuNi alloy showed higher activity toward urea oxidation compared to Ni-film.

Moreover, the UOR activity of CuNi improved over multiple potential cycles whereas that of Ni-film severely deteriorated as shown in Figure 7c. To investigate the UOR stability of the photoanodes further, we then used multistep amperometry measurements under light illumination during which two different potentials were applied periodically to switch the UOR on and off. This method can help extend the stability of the photoanodes as reported in the literature.[65] For n-Si/SiOx/CuNi, a high potential of 1.1 V was applied for 60 s to switch on the UOR, followed by 0.7 V for 20 s to switch off the photoanode. For n-Si/SiOx/Ni-film, due to its lower *E*onset, the UOR potential pulse was chosen to be 0.97 V. Note that for both samples, a similar current density of around 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> was reached at their selected UOR potentials. The data is plotted in Figure 8a and b, and the tracking of the current density at the end of the UOR pulse is shown in Figure 8c for a clearer comparison. It can be observed that Ni-film degraded significantly faster than CuNi. We remark that the current spikes that occurred when the potential was switched could be ascribed to electrochemical phenomena, such as mass transport, capacitive charging/ discharging, or catalyst poisoning.[38] Similar spikes were also observed when we measured samples prepared on p<sup>+</sup>-Si in the dark (data not shown), ruling out the effects from light.

Despite the planar Ni system having a lower *E*onset under PEC conditions, the stability of CuNi alloy system is significantly better. Overall, our data presents that CuNi alloy is more active for UOR (in terms of electrocatalytic activity) and has higher resistance toward catalyst poisoning when compared to Ni metal. Previous studies on the electrocatalyst containing both Ni and Cu suggest that this is due to the weaker CO adsorption and better desorption of CO2 on Cu.[38,69] In terms of the ease of sample fabrication, the electrodeposition of CuNi alloy is

**Figure 8.** Chronoamperometric curves of (a) n-Si/SiOx/CuNi and (b) n-Si/SiOx/Ni-film for UOR in 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea under 1-sun illumination. (c) Tracking of current density taken at the end of the reaction pulse of the two samples.

simpler and does not require any high vacuum processes when compared to physical vapor deposition techniques typically employed to prepare Ni film.

# **Conclusions**

We successfully fabricated n-Si photoanodes modified with CuNi alloy nanostructures which were applicable for both water oxidation and urea oxidation. By varying the ECD, the composition of the alloy could be systematically controlled. The optimal condition was 15 mCcm <sup>2</sup> which yielded n-Si photoanodes with a low *E*onset of 1.15 V for OER and a current density of 6 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V (water oxidation potential). Our detailed investigation into the activation process also found that the likely mechanism can be ascribed to the dealloying of Cu and formation of NiOx. The photovoltage of the system was significantly improved after the activation, attributable to the higher effective barrier height.

Furthermore, n-Si/SiOx/CuNi photoanodes also exhibited excellent UOR performance with a low *E*onset of 1.05 V and a large current density of 31 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 1.23 V. When compared to Ni-film, CuNi showed higher electrocatalytic activity and better stability for UOR under PEC conditions. This work further advances the development of inhomogeneous MIS photoanodes and demonstrates that the CuNi alloy system could be a promising candidate for UOR.

# **Supporting Information**

The experimental section, supplementary tables, and supplementary figures are available in the Supporting Information.

# *Acknowledgements*

This research is funded by National Research Council of Thailand (NRCT), grant no. N42A650255 and N42A650196. This material is based upon work supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research under award number FA2386-22-1-4082. K. K. and P. P. acknowledge Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology (VISTEC) for PhD scholarship and research funding and VISTEC's Frontier Research Center (FRC) for scientific instruments. Dr. Somlak Ittisanronnachai from FRC, VISTEC, is acknowledged for their help with XPS. Dr. Pongkarn Chakthranont from National Nanotechnology Center (NANO-TEC), Thailand, is thanked for their helpful suggestions and discussions.

# *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** alloys **·** copper **·** nickel **·** silicon photoanodes **·** water splitting

2199692x, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://aces.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cnma.202400036 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<sup>[1]</sup> C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p) Soc.* **2013**, *135*, [16977–16987.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p)

<sup>[2]</sup> N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CS00328A) Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, [337–365](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CS00328A).

- [3] M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. Zhang, L. Wang, J. J. Zou, Z. L. Wang, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.05.022) Energy* **2017**, *37*, [136–157](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.05.022).
- [4] X. M. C. Ta, R. Daiyan, T. K. A. Nguyen, R. Amal, T. Tran-Phu, A. Tricoli, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2201358.
- [5] B. Mei, G. Mul, B. Seger, *Adv. Sustainable Syst.* **2017**, *1*, 1600035.
- [6] A. Y. Ru Ng, B. Boruah, K. F. Chin, J. M. Modak, H. Sen Soo, *[ChemNano-](https://doi.org/10.1002/cnma.201900616)Mat* **2020**, *6*, [185–203](https://doi.org/10.1002/cnma.201900616).
- [7] K. Sun, S. Shen, Y. Liang, P. E. Burrows, S. S. Mao, D. Wang, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300459q) Rev.* **2014**, *114*, [8662–8719](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300459q).
- [8] B. Fabre, G. Loget, *[Accounts](https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.2c00180) Mater. Res.* **2023**, *4*, 133–142.
- [9] Y. Li, Y. Xiao, C. Wu, D. Zhang, J. Huang, Z. Zhang, J. He, C. Li, *ACS [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmaterialslett.1c00821) Lett.* **2022**, *4*, [779–804](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmaterialslett.1c00821).
- [10] J. X. Jian, M. M. Yao, J. X. Liao, M. H. Zhou, Y. J. Chen, M. X. Deng, Y. M. Huang, C. P. Liu, Q. X. Tong, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2022**, *12*, [5640–5648.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY00830K)
- [11] J. X. Jian, J. X. Liao, M. H. Zhou, M. M. Yao, Y. J. Chen, X. W. Liang, C. P. Liu, Q. X. Tong, *Chem. A Eur. J.* **2022**, *28*, e202201520.
- [12] J. Y. Lin, J. X. Liao, F. W. Dagnaw, J. H. Li, L. H. Xie, M. H. Zhou, C. P. Liu,
- J. X. Jian, Q. X. Tong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2024**, *648*, [159089](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.159089). [13] I. A. Digdaya, B. J. Trześniewski, G. W. P. Adhyaksa, E. C. Garnett, W. A. Smith, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2018**, *122*, [5462–5471](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b11747).
- [14] M. J. Kenney, M. Gong, Y. Li, J. Z. Wu, J. Feng, M. Lanza, H. Dai, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1241327)*
- **2013**, *342*, [836–840.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1241327) [15] I. A. Digdaya, G. W. P. Adhyaksa, B. J. Trześniewski, E. C. Garnett, W. A.
- Smith, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15968.
- [16] J. Hemmerling, J. Quinn, S. Linic, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903354. [17] G. Loget, B. Fabre, S. Fryars, C. Mériadec, S. Ababou-Girard, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00034)*
- *Lett.* **2017**, *2*, [569–573](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00034).
- [18] S. A. Lee, T. H. Lee, C. Kim, M. J. Choi, H. Park, S. Choi, J. Lee, J. Oh, S. Y. Kim, H. W. Jang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, [420–429.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b03899)
- [19] K. Oh, V. Dorcet, B. Fabre, G. Loget, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1902963.
- [20] Z. Liu, C. Li, Y. Xiao, F. Wang, Q. Yu, M. B. Faheem, T. Zhou, Y. Li, *J. [Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b10967) Chem. C* **2020**, *124*, [2844–2850.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b10967)
- [21] G. Loget, *Curr. Opin. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cocis.2019.01.001) Sci.* **2019**, *39*, 40–50.
- [22] J. R. Hemmerling, A. Mathur, S. Linic, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103798.
- [23] G. Loget, C. Mériadec, V. Dorcet, B. Fabre, A. Vacher, S. Fryars, S. Ababou-Girard, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 3522.
- [24] P. Aroonratsameruang, P. Pattanasattayavong, V. Dorcet, C. Mériadec, S. Ababou-Girard, S. Fryars, G. Loget, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2020**, *124*, [25907–](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c08971) [25916.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c08971)
- [25] P. Aroonratsameruang, K. Klahan, G. Loget, P. Pattanasattayavong, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c04274) Phys. Chem. C* **2022**, *126*, [15587–15595.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c04274)
- [26] S. A. Lee, T. H. Lee, C. Kim, M. G. Lee, M. J. Choi, H. Park, S. Choi, J. Oh, H. W. Jang, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, [7261–7269](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b01999).
- [27] S. Lee, L. Ji, A. C. De Palma, E. T. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3982.
- [28] J. C. Hill, A. T. Landers, J. A. Switzer, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, [1150–1155](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4408).
- [29] G. Xu, Z. Xu, Z. Shi, L. Pei, S. Yan, Z. Gu, Z. Zou, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201700825)* **2017**, *10*, [2897–2903](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201700825).
- [30] B. K. Boggs, R. L. King, G. G. Botte, *Chem. Commun.* **2009**, [4859–4861](https://doi.org/10.1039/b905974a).
- [31] G. Wang, Y. Ling, X. Lu, H. Wang, F. Qian, Y. Tong, Y. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee22087c) Sci.* **2012**, *5*, [8215–8219.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee22087c)
- [32] J. Li, J. Li, T. Liu, L. Chen, Y. Li, H. Wang, X. Chen, M. Gong, Z. P. Liu, X. Yang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [26656–26662](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202107886).
- [33] S. W. Tatarchuk, J. J. Medvedev, F. Li, Y. Tobolovskaya, A. Klinkova, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209839.
- [34] L. Rebiai, D. Muller-Bouvet, R. Benyahia, E. Torralba, M. L. Viveros, V. Rocher, S. Azimi, C. Cachet-Vivier, S. Bastide, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.141516) Acta* **2023**, *438*, [141516.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.141516)
- [35] X. Hu, J. Zhu, J. Li, Q. Wu, *[ChemElectroChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.202000404)* **2020**, *7*, 3211–3228.
- [36] J. Dabboussi, R. Abdallah, L. Santinacci, S. Zanna, A. Vacher, V. Dorcet, S. Fryars, D. Floner, G. Loget, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [19769–19776](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA01212J).
- [37] S. A. Lee, J. W. Yang, T. H. Lee, I. J. Park, C. Kim, S. H. Hong, H. Lee, S. Choi, J. Moon, S. Y. Kim, J. Y. Kim, H. W. Jang, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121765) B* **2022**, *317*, [121765.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121765)
- [38] M. A. Hefnawy, S. A. Fadlallah, R. M. El-Sherif, S. S. Medany, *J. [Alloys](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.162857) [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.162857)* **2022**, *896*, 162857.

- [39] K. Zhang, S. Wang, X. Li, H. Li, Y. Ni, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2300959.
- [40] M. Wala, A. Blacha–Grzechnik, A. Stolarczyk, S. Bajkacz, P. Dydo, W. Simka, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, [34229–34243.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.05.214)
- [41] R. Y. Ying, P. K. Ng, Z. Mao, R. E. White, *J. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.2095470) Soc.* **1988**, *135*, [2964–2971.](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.2095470)
- [42] T. A. Green, A. E. Russell, S. Roy, *J. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.1838360) Soc.* **1998**, *145*, 875–881.
- [43] R. Oriňáková, A. Turoňová, D. Kladeková, M. Gálová, R. M. Smith, *J. Appl. Electrochem.* **2006**, *36*, 957–972.
- [44] S. H. Ahn, H. Y. Park, I. Choi, S. J. Yoo, S. J. Hwang, H. J. Kim, E. Cho, C. W. Yoon, H. Park, H. Son, J. M. Hernandez, S. W. Nam, T. H. Lim, S. K. Kim, J. H. Jang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2013**, *38*, [13493–13501.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2013.07.103)
- [45] S. Wang, X. Guo, H. Yang, J. Dai, R. Zhu, J. Gong, L. Peng, W. Ding, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2013.10.065) Surf. Sci.* **2014**, *288*, [530–536](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2013.10.065).
- [46] X. Chen, J. Wu, Q. Li, X. Zhu, Q. Wang, X. Wu, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.07.262) Energy* **2022**, *47*, [33754–33764](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.07.262).
- [47] R. P. Gautam, H. Pan, F. Chalyavi, M. J. Tucker, C. J. Barile, *[Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CY00427H) Sci. Technol.* **2020**, *10*, [4960–4967.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CY00427H)
- [48] Y. Shi, C. Gimbert-Suriñach, T. Han, S. Berardi, M. Lanza, A. Llobet, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b09816) Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b09816)* **2016**, *8*, 696–702.
- [49] T. Han, Y. Shi, Z. Yu, B. Shin, M. Lanza, *Solar RRL* **2019**, *3*, 1900195.
- [50] L. Sun, C. L. Chien, P. C. Searson, *Chem. Mater.* **2004**, *16*, [3125–3129](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm0497881).
- [51] P. Zhang, L. Li, D. Nordlund, H. Chen, L. Fan, B. Zhang, X. Sheng, Q. Daniel, L. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 381.
- [52] J. K. Chang, S. N. Hsu, I. W. Sun, W. T. Tsai, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0772474) C* **2008**, *112*, [1371–1376.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0772474)
- [53] M. C. Biesinger, L. W. M. Lau, A. R. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2010.07.086) Surf. Sci.* **2010**, *257*, [887–898.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2010.07.086)
- [54] L. Trotochaud, J. K. Ranney, K. N. Williams, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja307507a) Soc.* **2012**, *134*, [17253–17261](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja307507a).
- [55] M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, L. W. M. Lau, A. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, *[Surf.](https://doi.org/10.1002/sia.3026) Interface Anal.* **2009**, *41*, [324–332.](https://doi.org/10.1002/sia.3026)
- [56] S. M. Sze, *Physics of Semiconductor Devices* **1981**.
- [57] X. Zhou, R. Liu, K. Sun, K. M. Papadantonakis, B. S. Brunschwig, N. S. Lewis, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, [892–897](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5EE03655K).
- [58] C. Li, M. Huang, Y. Zhong, L. Zhang, Y. Xiao, H. Zhu, *Chem. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b03775)* **2019**, *31*, [171–178](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b03775).
- [59] F. A. L. Laskowski, M. R. Nellist, R. Venkatkarthick, S. W. Boettcher, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE03505A) Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, [570–579](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE03505A).
- [60] E. Cossar, M. S. E. Houache, Z. Zhang, E. A. Baranova, *J. [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2020.114246) Chem.* **2020**, *870*, [114246](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2020.114246).
- [61] R. Martínez-Hincapié, J. Wegner, M. U. Anwar, A. Raza-Khan, S. Franzka, S. Kleszczynski, V. Čolić, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2023.143663) Acta* **2024**, *476*, 143663.
- [62] L. D. Burke, T. A. M. Twomey, *J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(84)80158-8)* **1984**, *162*, [101–119.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(84)80158-8)
- [63] M. R. Gennero de Chialvo, A. C. Chialvo, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0013-4686(98)80013-3) Acta* **1988**, *33*, 825– [830.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0013-4686(98)80013-3)
- [64] X. Wang, J. P. Li, Y. Duan, J. Li, H. Wang, X. Yang, M. Gong, *ChemCatChem* **2022**, *14*, e202101906.
- [65] E. T. Sayed, T. Eisa, H. O. Mohamed, M. A. Abdelkareem, A. Allagui, H. Alawadhi, K. J. Chae, *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *417*, [159–175.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.12.024)
- [66] V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137) Acta* **2013**, *108*, 660–665.
- [67] D. A. Daramola, D. Singh, G. G. Botte, *J. Phys. Chem. A* **2010**, *114*, [11513–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp105159t) [11521.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp105159t)
- [68] R. Lin, L. Kang, T. Zhao, J. Feng, V. Celorrio, G. Zhang, G. Cibin, A. Kucernak, D. J. L. Brett, F. Corà, I. P. Parkin, G. He, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE03522C) Sci.* **2022**, *15*, [2386–2396.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE03522C)
- [69] L. Yang, R. He, X. Wang, T. Yang, T. Zhang, Y. Zuo, X. Lu, Z. Liang, J. Li, J. Arbiol, P. R. Martínez-Alanis, X. Qi, A. Cabot, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2023.108714)* **2023**, *115*, [108714.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2023.108714)

Manuscript received: January 16, 2024 Revised manuscript received: April 28, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: May 14, 2024 Version of record online: June 26, 2024