---
source: Kumar 等 - 2021 - Comprehensive and High‐throughput Electrolysis of Water and Urea by 3–5 nm Nickel and Copper Coordin.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 88.875s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:02:38.713844Z
---

# **Comprehensive and High-throughput Electrolysis of Water and Urea by 3–5 nm Nickel and Copper Coordination Polymers**

Ashwani Kumar<sup>+</sup> , [a] Sahanaz Parvin+ , [a] Raj Kumar Das,[a, b] and Sayan Bhattacharyya\*[a]

**Abstract:** Metal-organic coordination polymers (CP) have attracted the scientific attention for electrochemical water oxidation as it has the similar coordination structure like natural photosynthetic coordinated complex. However, the harsh synthesis conditions and bulky nature pose a major challenge in the field of catalysis. Herein, 3–5 nm CP particles synthesized at room temperature using aqueous solutions of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and 2,5-dihydroxyterepthalic acid as precursor were applied for alkaline water and urea electrolysis. The overpotential required is only 300 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> by Nano-Ni CP for water oxidation, with turnover frequency (TOF) of 21.4 s <sup>1</sup> which is around 8 times higher than its bulk-counterpart. Overall water and urea splitting were achieved with Nano-Cu ( ) kNano-Ni (+) couple on Ni foam at 1.69 and 1.52 V to achieve 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. High electrochemical surface area (ECSA), high TOF, and enhanced mass diffusion are found to be the key parameters responsible for the state-of-the-art water and urea splitting performances of nano-CPs as compared to their bulk counterparts.

# **Introduction**

Molecular hydrogen obtained by electrochemical water splitting is regarded as a promising carbon-free alternative to fossil fuels.[1] Although expensive noble metal-based electrocatalysts such as Ir/Ru/Pt-based oxides and alloys are well known to drive the uphill half-reactions of oxygen and hydrogen evolution (OER and HER),[2] several low-cost earthabundant electrocatalysts have been extensively researched and developed in the recent years.[3–11] Many of such transition metal-based systems however suffer from below par activity and stability due to the leaching of metal ions under harsh basic/acidic electrochemical environment, and thus hindering their large-scale applications.[12] The OER halfreaction with a large thermodynamic potential of 1.23 V constitutes a major hurdle due to its sluggish kinetics from the involvement of 4e . The elevation of activation energy barrier for the rate-determining step (RDS) i. e. the protoncoupled electron transfer process, thwarts the overall efficiency of water electrolysis. Urea oxidation reaction (UOR) with a low thermodynamic potential of only 0.37 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), can replace the sluggish anodic OER by employing the more readily oxidizable urea, according to equation (1):

$$CO(NH_2)_2 + 6OH^- \rightarrow N_2 + CO_2 + 5H_2O + 6e^-$$
 (1)

This approach provides an opportunity for simultaneously achieving energy-saving H2 production and urea-rich wastewater treatment.[13,14] In spite of the low thermodynamic voltage, UOR is a complex process owing to the 6e transferstep and requires highly active and affordable catalysts to promote the reaction rate.[13] Therefore, it is no doubt imperative to develop advanced homologous catalyst structures which will fasten the sluggish OER/UOR steps, as well as promote the 2e HER, thus reducing the overall cell voltage for H2 generation.[15]

In green plants, the oxygen-evolving complexes involve MnCaO5 with other functional ligands in the first and second coordination sphere, achieving a high TOF at a very low overpotential (*<*200 mV).[16] The design of coordination complexes involving electron-rich ligand, carboxylate or phenolate group can not only stabilize the higher valent states of metals but also act as an internal base for transferring proton during the formation of O O bond.[17] Recently, transition metal (Co and Cu) based porous CPs in their bulk form have been utilized as electrocatalysts for OER/HER under various pH environments.[18–21] However, most of the CPs at the molecular level or in their bulk form occlude the active sites, thereby restricting the potential to catalyze the respective half-reactions. One of the remedial approaches is nano-structuring the CPs to imbibe well-defined porosity, abundant active sites to enhance the mass diffusion, lowering the OER/UOR/HER overpotentials (η), besides overcoming the problem of metal leaching during prolonged stability.[22,23] However, CPs are not frequently explored due to their uncertain electronic conductivity,[24–26] unlike the inorganic structures,[12,27] and most of the reported CP electrocatalysts are bulky in nature that clogs the active sites. Also commonly used hydrothermal synthesis does not allow

[a] *A. Kumar,+ S. Parvin,+ Dr. R. K. Das, Prof. S. Bhattacharyya Department of Chemical Sciences and Centre for Advanced Functional Materials*

*Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata Mohanpur 741246 (India) E-mail: sayanb@iiserkol.ac.in*

[b] *Dr. R. K. Das Current Affiliation: School of Chemistry and Biochemistry Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology Bhadson Road, Patiala 147004 (India)*

<sup>+</sup>] *These authors contributed equally.*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/asia.202100916>*

*This manuscript is part of a Special Collection celebrating the 15th Anniversary of IISER Inception.*

*Chem Asian J.* **2021**, *16*, 3444–3452 3444 © 2021 Wiley-VCH GmbH

their morphological control at high temperatures. Often, when CPs are pyrolyzed into better conducting nanocomposites, their multi-metal coordinated environment cannot be utilized.<sup>[7,28]</sup> Therefore, need of the hour is to find a room temperature pathway for nanoscale CPs with well-defined shape and size.

Herein, we report a one-step room temperature preparation of Nano-Ni and Nano-Cu CPs, attractive from both industrial and environmental points of view, and utilized them as electrocatalysts for OER, UOR, and HER at pH 14. A clear distinction is drawn between the nano and bulk CPs in terms of their physical attributes and electrochemical performance. The nano-CPs demonstrate better activity than the bulk because of more accessible active sites, enhanced mass diffusion and better operational stability. In addition, the nano-CP based water and urea electrolyzers demonstrate admirable water and urea splitting performances, requiring only 1.69 and 1.52 V, respectively, at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> along with long-term stability for at least 50 h.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Figure 1a illustrates the formation of Nano-M (M: Ni, Cu) CP using 2,5-dihydroxyterepthalic acid (DHTP) and bivalent metal ions at room temperature (details in the Experimental section). The CPs possess one-dimensional carboxylate and hydroxo-bridged metal chain interconnected by DHTP<sup>2-</sup> linkers to generate the hexagonal-shaped porous network. Field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) images reveal a distinct size difference between nano and bulk CPs (Figure S1 and Figure S2), although they have analogous crystal structures

(Figure S3a).<sup>[31]</sup> The diffraction peaks of the bulk CPs are much sharper than the nano CPs, as expected. The infrared vibrational bands originate from the metal-coordinated organic ligand and a broad peak at 3400 cm<sup>-1</sup> from OH stretching of adsorbed water molecules (Figure S4). Raman spectral bands in between 551 and 588 cm<sup>-1</sup> reveal the presence of metal-oxygen bond in both the bulk and nano-CPs, which is absent in the case of only DHTP ligand (Figure S4c). The bands at 1085 and 1284 cm<sup>-1</sup> correspond to the in-plane vibrational mode of the benzene ring and C—O stretching mode of carboxylate group, respectively, in both the CPs and the bare ligand. The 1445 and 1570 cm<sup>-1</sup> bands are due to O—C—O and C—O stretching in the DHTP ligand, respectively.<sup>[32,33]</sup>

Transmission electron microscope (TEM) images of nano-CPs show spherical morphology with an average diameter of 3-5 nm, whereas the grains in bulk CPs are irregular with lateral dimensions of  $\sim 1.2$  and  $\sim 13 \mu m$ , for Bulk-Cu and Bulk-Ni CPs, respectively (Figure 1b-e and Figure S5). The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns in Figure 1c, e show a lattice spacing of 0.21 nm corresponding to (11-9-1) plane. Scanning TEM-high-angle annular dark-field (STEM-HAADF) mapping shows a uniform elemental distribution within the coalesced nanoparticle ensemble (Figure S3b,c). X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) of Nano-Ni exhibit the presence of Ni<sup>2+</sup> at a binding energy of 856.06 eV with satellite peak at 860.32 eV in Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> spectra. [34] In Nano-Cu, Cu 2p<sub>3/2</sub> spectrum deconvolutes into two peaks suggesting two chemical environments of Cu<sup>2+</sup> at 932.9 eV (Cu<sup>2+</sup>-O) and 934.93 eV (Cu<sup>2+</sup>-OH) with a satellite at 941.13 eV (Figure 2a, b). [35] The oxidation states and hence the electronic

Figure 1. (a) Schematic illustration for the formation of nano-CPs and their application as electrocatalysts. (b) TEM and (c) HRTEM images of Nano-Cu. (d) TEM and (e) HRTEM images of Nano-Ni. (Insets in c and e: corresponding SAED pattern).

1861471x, 2021, 21, Downloaded from https://accs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/axis.a.202100916 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (https:

Figure 2. Fitted high resolution XPS spectra of (a) Ni 2p in Nano-Ni, (b) Cu 2p in Nano-Cu, (c) Ni 2p in Bulk-Ni and (d) Cu 2p in Bulk-Cu.

states of Ni and Cu do not alter between the nano and bulk CPs (Figure 2c, d).

The nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms show that both nano and bulk CPs display type-I hysteresis resembling a dominant microporosity (Figure S6). The surface area of Nano-Ni (86  $m^2g^{-1}$ ) and Nano-Cu (152  $m^2g^{-1}$ ) are lower than Bulk-Ni (120 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>) and Bulk-Cu (407 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>). The lower-than-expected surface area is not due to any change in crystallinity or structure during the degassing stage (Figure S7).[12] The pore volume of Bulk-Ni, Bulk-Cu, Nano-Ni, and Nano-Cu are 0.126, 0.275, 0.054 and  $0.696 \text{ cm}^3\text{g}^{-1}$ , respectively. Bulk CPs consist of < 1 nmmicropores while nano-CPs contain both micropores and 3-4 nm mesopores (Figure S6 insets), necessary to boost the electrochemical mass diffusion. The pore diameter and surface area are inversely related and hence nano-CPs with larger pore diameter have lower surface area. Moreover, nano-CPs with greater surface effect show lower surface area in the low P/P<sub>0</sub> region where monolayer adsorption is dominant. Thermogravimetric analyses (TGA) under N<sub>2</sub> shows that since bulk CPs differ from the nano-CPs in the order of linker decomposition, the former requires higher temperature than 370-400°C for the nano-CPs to achieve a near-complete weight loss (Figure S8ad). Additionally, the nano-CPs exhibit similar weight loss to that of DHTP-ligand, suggesting that all the ligands coordinated to metals in the nanoscale CPs are easily accessible due to their high surface area to volume ratio (Figure S8e).

The electrocatalytic OER activity of the nano and bulk-Ni was investigated in 1 M KOH solution in a three-electrode setup in which carbon fiber paper (CFP) loaded with catalyst is used as working electrode, graphite rod as counter electrode, and Hg/HgO (1 M NaOH) as reference electrode, following the standard experimental protocols. [36] Figure 3a illustrates the iRcorrected linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves at 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> scan rate to ensure steady-state behavior at the electrode surface. [27,37] The LSV curves were recorded in a backward scan to avoid the current contribution from the oxidation of Ni<sup>2+</sup> or Ir<sup>4+</sup> to higher oxidation states. Keeping the catalyst loading on CFP constant, Nano-Ni demonstrates  $\eta$ = 300 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> which is only 40 mV higher than the benchmark IrO<sub>2</sub> ( $\eta^{10}$  = 260 mV) but 90 mV lower than its bulk

1861-41x, 2021, 21, Downloaded from https://aces.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asia.202109916 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emm

Figure 3. LSV polarization curves, Tafel slopes and bar plots corresponding to the required overpotentials to achieve  $\pm$  10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup> and Tafel slopes for (a-c) OER and (d-f) HER. The LSV polarization curves were recorded at 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> scan rate in backward scan.

counterpart ( $\eta^{10}=390$  mV) (Figure 3a,c), and much superior to that of Nano-Cu and NiO nanoparticles (Figure S9a). The Tafel slope of Nano-Ni, IrO<sub>2</sub> and bulk Ni are 83, 95, 130 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, demonstrating its efficient OER kinetics for Nano-Ni (Figure 3b, c). The interfacial charge transfer resistance ( $R_{CT}$ ) determined from the Nyquist plots recorded at  $\eta=370$  mV (Figure S10a) is much lower for Nano-Ni (8.57  $\Omega$ ) than Bulk-Ni (97.6  $\Omega$ ). Moreover, the large double layer capacitance ( $C_{cll}$ ) and electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of Nano-Ni (0.21 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> and 0.84 cm<sup>2</sup>) than Bulk-Ni (0.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> and 0.4 cm<sup>2</sup>), respectively, suggests the prevalence of active sites in the nano-CPs (Figure S11).

The Nano-Ni electrode shows chronoamperometric stability for at least 24 h at  $\eta = 410 \text{ mV}$  with unchanged LSV plot after the stability test, because of the retention of active sites (Figure S12a) and its morphology (Figure S12b). The LSV plots before and after stability were recorded in forward scan mode with a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. This is supported by the 95% faradaic efficiency measured at 2.04 V versus RHE, suggesting the negligible occurrence of parasitic reactions (Figure S12c). For EIS, stability, and Faradaic efficiency, Ag/AgCl (3 M KCl) and Pt wire were used as reference and counter electrodes, respectively. The presence of electron-rich coordinated ligands helps in tuning the redox character of the metal sites. In this case, under positive bias, a greater number of Ni<sup>2+</sup> converts to Ni<sup>3+</sup> in nano-CP than its bulk counterpart, exposing more OER active sites in the former, which can be easily inferred from the calculated charge density that is higher in the nanostructure. The charge densities corresponding to Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> redox peak is 0.26 and 0.005 mC cm<sup>-2</sup> for nano and bulk structures, respectively, although the  $Ni^{2+}$  to  $Ni^{3+}$  conversion occurs at a slightly lower potential (1.4 V vs RHE) in the bulk structure than the nano-CP (1.43 V vs RHE) (Figure S13).

For designing the cathode, nano and bulk-Cu CPs were employed instead of the Ni-counterparts. The CPs were fabricated on CFP to make the working electrode, Hg/HgO (1 M NaOH) was used as the reference electrode and graphite rod as the counter electrode. LSV polarization plots were collected in a backward scan with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> to avoid the current contribution from metal reduction and capacitive current. In electrochemical HER studies at pH 14, Nano-Cu performs the best with  $\eta = 336 \text{ mV}$  at  $-10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  outperforming its bulk counterpart (490 mV) and other control samples such as Nano-Ni and CuO nanoparticles (Figure 3d,f, and Figure S9b). The benchmark 40 wt.% Pt/C remains the best with  $\eta^{-10} = 18$  mV. Nano-Cu and Bulk-Cu exhibit Tafel slopes of 261 and 330 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, indicating the Volmer-Heyrovsky mechanism, where Volmer step is rate-determining (Figure 3e,f). Nano-Cu has a smaller  $R_{CT}$  of 44.9  $\Omega$  at  $\eta = 398$  mV than Bulk-Cu (70.8  $\Omega$ ), thereby demonstrating faster electron transfer rates in nano-CP (Figure S10b). The C<sub>dl</sub> values for Nano-Cu (0.4 mFcm<sup>-2</sup>) and Bulk-Cu (0.14 mFcm<sup>-2</sup>) suggest higher ECSA for Nano-Cu (1.4 cm²) than Bulk-Cu (0.56 cm²) (Figure S11). Nano-Cu also shows at least 24 h durability at  $\eta = 380$  mV with intact morphology (Figure S12d,e). The faradaic efficiency is as high as 93%, measured at -0.664 V vs RHE (Figure S12f). [39] If these numbers are extrapolated to the industrial scale, Nano-Cu can ideally generate  $61 \times 10^{-4}$  moles H<sub>2</sub> at -0.66 versus RHE with a 10 cm<sup>2</sup> sized electrode. The EIS, stability and Faradaic efficiency for HER were also conducted taking Ag/AgCl (3 M

KCI) and Pt wire as reference and counter electrodes, respectively.

For overall water splitting, Nano-Cu (-) || Nano-Ni (+) couple supported on CFP requires a cell voltage of only 1.84 at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. (Figure 4a, b). These values are close to the potential difference of 1.86 V between the half reactions at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4e) and better than the corresponding bulk CP couple. Its current density also surpasses the Pt/C (-) ||  $IrO_2$  (+) electrolyzer at higher cell voltage. When supported on Ni foam, the cell voltage of this couple is reduced to 1.69 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4c). This cell voltage of Nano-Cu (-) || Nano-Ni (+) electrolyzer is also better than and close to many recently reported electrolyzers (Table S1).  $^{[15,18-21,23,24,40-47]}$  Figure 4d show its stability for at least 50 h on Ni foam at 40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and on CFP at a constant cell voltage of 2.1 V with continuous O<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub> bubble release along with exact match of the LSV plots before and after stability test. In contrast, despite better activity, the Pt/C (-) || IrO<sub>2</sub> (+); electrolyzer has extremely poor stability (Figure \$14). Expectedly, the crystallographic phases, oxidation states, and integrity of the nano-CP catalysts remain almost unchanged, which is attributed to the unique CP structure where metal atoms are strongly coordinated to the organic ligand withstanding harsh electrochemical conditions (Figure S15). The attenuated total reflectance infrared (ATR-IR) spectra also do not show any change in the vibrational modes of Nano-Cu after HER (Figure \$16a). The inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectral (ICP-OES) analysis of the electrolyte after the stability test suggests negligible metal leaching from the CP structure after the 50 h stability tests (Table S2).

In the first step of the proposed OER mechanism with Nano-Ni catalyst, the water molecules bind to the Ni(II) metal center followed by one electron oxidation to generate the radical cation species (Figure 5a). [48] This step is followed by subsequent proton and electron transfer reactions resulting in the deprotonation of the coordinated water molecule with concomitant oxidation of the Ni(II) center to generate the hydroxide bound species. Coupled with proton abstraction, the intermolecular electron transfer from the hydroxide to the coordinating ligand gives rise to the Ni(III)-O\* species, a mechanism previously validated by in situ X-ray absorption near edge structure of MOF nanosheets. [49] Prior to O-O bond formation, Ni(II)-OOH species is generated, which undergoes another proton-coupled electron transfer reaction to give Ni(II)-OO\*. The final oxidation step results in the release of O2 and generation of the starting complex with Ni(II) state, revealed by Ni 2p XPS spectra after the stability test. On the other hand, according to the HER Tafel slope of Nano-Cu, H<sub>2</sub> is released through the Heyrovsky reaction. In the first step of the proposed HER mechanism (Figure 5b), one proton from H<sub>2</sub>O binds on the oxygen atom bound to Cu, forming a cationic species, followed by one electron reduction which generates the Cu(I) species. Another proton from the adjacent H<sub>2</sub>O coupled with one more electron reacts with the adsorbed proton and releases molecular H<sub>2</sub>, in turn regenerating the starting complex with Cu(II) state, [50] as observed in the Cu 2p XPS spectra after stability test. The exact mechanism can be understood by operando spectroscopy through monitoring the changes in metal center oxidation

Figure 4. (a) LSV polarization curves of the two-electrode setup on CFP for overall water-splitting in 1 M KOH (iR uncorrected) and (b) the required cell voltage to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. (c) LSV polarization curves of Nano-Cu (-)  $\parallel$  Nano-Ni (+) electrolyzer on Ni foam for overall water-splitting in 1 M KOH (iR uncorrected). (d) Chronoamperometry at 2.1 V and chronopotentiometry at 40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of water electrolysis for the Nano-Cu (-)  $\parallel$  Nano-Ni (+) electrolyzer on CFP and Ni foam, respectively. The left inset in (d) shows the LSV curves before and after the chronoamperometric test and the right inset shows the optical images of  $O_2$  and  $O_2$  and  $O_3$  bubbles generated. (e) Steady-state polarization curves with corresponding voltage difference at a fixed 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of nano and bulk-CPs for OER and HER on CFP. (f) LSV polarization curves of Nano-Cu (-)  $\parallel$  Nano-Ni (+) electrolyzer on Ni foam for urea electrolysis in 1 M KOH ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$  M urea ( $O_3$ 

Figure 5. (a and b) Proposed mechanism for the electrochemical water oxidation and reduction reaction catalyzed by Nano-Ni and Nano-Cu, respectively. TOF for (c) OER at 300 mV overpotential and (d) HER at 400 mV overpotential for both bulk and nanostructured CPs, respectively. ECSA normalization plots for (e) OER and (f) HER.

states and coordination environment which is a topic of future study.

Unfortunately, there are significant but unnoticed errors in the evaluation parameters of water splitting, which have been discerned by the global scientific community in the last few years. For electrochemical water splitting, the key evaluation parameters are overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>geo,</sub> Tafel slope, exchange current density, TOF, mass activity and specific activity. However, the use of Tafel slope and overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>geo</sub> carries a significant error as the values are exaggerated with a slight increase in the mass loading of the catalyst. Moreover, the overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>qeo</sub> is only useful for engineering perspective of the performance of the overall electrode, but not for the evaluation of its intrinsic activity. For a better understanding of the intrinsic activity, the evaluation of TOF and specific activity (ECSA normalized activity) show a distinct contrast between the nano and bulk CPs. [51] Nano-Ni has a very high TOF value of 21.4 O<sub>2</sub> s<sup>-1</sup> which is almost 8 times higher than its bulk counterpart. The specific activities of the catalysts were determined by normalizing the current with respect to the ECSA values, which also show the better activity of Nano-Ni than the Bulk-Ni. A similar trend is observed for the homologous Cu containing CPs (Figure 5c–f, Discussion S1 and S2). The particle size, morphology and catalytic activities of the nano CPs are found reproducible from two more batches of synthesis (Figure S17 and Figure S18).

The alternative to OER, i.e. the UOR activity was evaluated in a three-electrode set-up by employing a backward scan with a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Nano-Ni CP loaded either on CFP or Ni foam substrate, is the working electrode, Hg/HgO (1 M NaOH) is the reference electrode and graphite rod is the counter electrode in 1 M KOH containing 0.33 M urea electrolyte. The Nano-Ni also exhibits excellent UOR activity, requiring only 1.37 and 1.35 mV potential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> when loaded on CFP and Ni foam, respectively. The UOR potentials are much lower than those required for the conventional OER, which in turn is expected to generate H2 at a much lower applied voltage. The Nano-Ni CP shows UOR durability for more than 12 h (Figure S19). ATR-IR spectral analysis, FESEM imaging and powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) investigations show that after the 12 h UOR stability test, the nano-Ni CPs transform into Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> flakes due to the long exposure in an alkaline medium (1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea) and under an anodic current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. However, there is no distinct

change in particle morphology after the LSV polarization measurements in the same electrolyte. Energy dispersive analysis of X-rays (EDAX) elemental mapping shows the retention of elemental homogeneity after the 12 h catalysis (Figure S16b–e). The urea electrolyzer constructed by assembling Nano-Ni anode and Nano-Cu cathode on Ni foam substrates in 1 M KOH and 0.33 M urea, requires only 1.52 V to generate 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> which is 0.17 V lower than that of water electrolyzer and with durability for at least 50 h (Figure 4f, g). This UOR and urea electrolysis performance is comparable and superior to recently reported catalysts (Table S3).<sup>[13,52–55]</sup>

# **Conclusions**

To summarize, nano-CPs were synthesized by an economical route at room temperature, attractive from both environmental as well as industrial point of view. Nano-Ni CP exhibits excellent OER performance achieving 300 mV overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, along with a durability of 24 h with no change in the morphology and oxidation state. The activity of nano-Ni outperforms that of bulk structure due to the formation of greater number of accessible Ni (III) species. The electrocatalytic activities of nano-CPs are significantly higher in terms of both intrinsic and extrinsic activity compared to the bulk CPs. The Nano-Cu (-)||Nano-Ni (+) alkaline electrolyzer delivers a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a cell voltage of 1.69 and 1.84 V on Ni foam and CFP, respectively, with stability for at least 50 h. This couple can similarly perform urea electrolysis requiring only 1.52 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Although the utilization of the CPs towards overall water and urea electrolysis is still in its early stage with plenty of opportunities in terms of the catalyst design, this work opens up a new avenue for designing nanoscale CP electrocatalysts for a range of energy conversion reactions in the near future.

### **Experimental section**

#### Materials

Nickel acetate tetrahydrate (Ni(CH $_3$ COO) $_2$ ·4H $_2$ O; Sigma-aldrich, 98%), copper acetate monohydrate (Cu(CH $_3$ COO) $_2$ .H $_2$ O; Sigma-Aldrich,  $\geq$ 99%), nickel(II) nitrate hexahydrate extra pure (Ni-(NO $_3$ ) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O; Merck,  $\geq$ 97%), copper(II) nitrate hexahydrate (Cu-(NO $_3$ ) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O; Merck,  $\geq$ 97%), ammonium fluoride (NH $_4$ F; Sigma-Aldrich,  $\geq$ 99.99%), urea (CO(NH $_2$ ) $_2$ ; Sigma-Aldrich,  $\geq$ 99%), 2,5-dihydroxyterephthalic acid (C $_8$ H $_6$ O $_6$ ; TCI chemicals,  $\geq$ 98%), tetrahydrofuran (THF; Merck, 98%), N,N-Dimethylformamide (DMF) (C $_3$ H $_7$ NO; Merck, 98%), 2-propanol (CH $_3$ CHOHCH $_3$ ; Merck,  $\geq$ 99.9%), methanol (CH $_3$ OH; Merck,  $\geq$ 99.9%), potassium hydroxide pellets (KOH; Merck,  $\geq$ 85%), ethanol (C $_2$ H $_5$ OH; Merck,  $\geq$ 99.9%), commercial Pt/C (40 wt.%, Sigma-Aldrich), Toray Carbon Fiber Paper (CFP; Alfa Aesar) and nafion perfluorinated resin solution (5 wt.%, Sigma-Aldrich) were used without further purification.

#### Synthesis of Nano-Ni and Nano-Cu

A solution of DHTP (0.2 g; 1.0 mmol) in 5 ml of DMF was added drop wise to a solution of nickel acetate tetrahydrate (0.646 g, 2.6 mmol)/copper acetate monohydrate (0.519 g, 2.6 mmol) in 20 ml DMF at room temperature leading to immediate precipitation. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 h. The solid was collected by centrifugation, washed with 20 ml DMF followed by washing with 20 ml methanol twice. The solid was kept immersed in methanol for 3 days, followed by centrifugation and drying at room temperature under vacuum overnight to obtain Nano-Ni/Nano-Cu (depending on the metal acetate precursor).

#### Synthesis of Bulk-Ni

Bulk-Ni was synthesized from a literature report with slight modifications. <sup>[26]</sup> A solution of 492 mg DHTP in 8 mL THF was added to the aqueous solution of 1 g nickel(II) nitrate hexahydrate in 8 mL deionized water, followed by stirring for 1 h. The mixture was placed in a 25 mL autoclave at 100 °C for 72 h. After cooling down to room temperature the solid was centrifuged, washed with water and ethanol and then immersed in methanol for 3 days. Finally, the sample was dried at room temperature under vacuum overnight.

#### Synthesis of Bulk-Cu

Bulk-Cu was also synthesized from a literature report with slight modifications. <sup>[27]</sup> In a typical synthesis, 106 mg of DHTP and 472 mg of copper(II) nitrate hexahydrate were dissolved in a mixture of 20 mL DMF and 1 mL of 2-propanol. The mixture was introduced in a glass bottle and heated at 100 °C for 24 h. The obtained solid was centrifuged and washed with DMF, followed by immersing the solid in methanol for 3 days. Finally, the sample was dried at room temperature under vacuum overnight.

# Synthesis of IrO<sub>2</sub>

0.2 mmol  $\rm K_2 IrCl_6$  was added to 50 ml aqueous solution of 0.16 g of sodium hydrogen citrate (0.63 mmol). Then the red-brown solution was adjusted to pH 7.5 using NaOH solution (0.25 M) and heated to 95 °C in an oil bath with constant stirring. After heating for 30 min, the solution was cooled to room temperature, and the NaOH solution was added to adjust the pH to 7.5. The addition of NaOH solution at room temperature, followed by heating at 95 °C for 30 min, was repeated until the pH stabilized to 7.5. The  $\rm IrO_x$  colloidal solution was precipitated by centrifugation and dried overnight in a desiccator. Finally, the dried powder was calcined in a box-furnace at 400 °C for 30 min to form the oxide.

## Synthesis of NiO and CuO nanoparticles

A 50 mL autoclave containing 40 mL DI water, Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (1.05 mmol), urea (3.36 mmol), and NH<sub>4</sub>F (5 mmol) was heated at 130 °C for 6 h in a muffle furnace. The resultant sample was washed 2 times with DI water and ethanol, respectively, dried at 60 °C overnight, followed by calcination at 400 °C for 2 h with a heating rate of 3 °C min<sup>-1</sup> to form NiO nanoparticles. The CuO nanoparticles were synthesized by a similar procedure except replacing Ni-(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O with Cu(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O as the Cu precursor.

#### Characterization methods

FESEM images were obtained using a Carl Zeiss SUPRA 55VP FESEM. EDAX spectra were performed in an Oxford Instruments X-Max with

1861471x, 2021

, 21. Downloaded from https://aces.onlinelibrary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/asia.202100916 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/1/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensen

the INCA software coupled to the FESEM. TEM images were obtained by UHR-FEG TEM system (JEOL, Model JEM 2100 F) DST-FIST IISER Kolkata, using a 200 kV electron source. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy studies were performed with a Perkin Elmer spectrum RX1 with KBr pellets. ATR-IR spectra were recorded with a Bruker instrument of model alpha, serial No. 200799. Raman spectra were recorded with the 532 nm line of a He-Ne ion laser as the excitation source in LABRAM HR800. The powder XRD measurements were performed with a Rigaku (mini flex II, Japan) powder Xray diffractometer having Cu K $\alpha$  = 1.54059 Å radiation. The surface area and porosity measurements were performed with a Micromeritics Gemini VII surface area analyzer and N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms were reported by BJH (Barrett-Joyner-Halenda) surface/volume mesopore analysis. All the samples were degassed at 150 °C for 6 h. The specific surface area was determined according to the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method. XPS measurements were carried out using photoelectron spectrometer PHI 5000 Versa Probell, FEI Inc, IIT Kanpur using Al K $\alpha$  (1486.6 eV) excitation source. The TGA data were collected on a Mettler Toledo STARe, under N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere at 10 °C min<sup>-1</sup> heating and cooling rates. The ICP-OES measurements were done using thermo scientific iCAP 7000 series ICP spectrometer.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

All the electrochemical measurements were carried out using an electrochemical workstation (Biologic Instruments, VSP-300) and the plots were analyzed with inbuilt software in the electrochemical workstation. The electrochemical tests for OER, HER and C<sub>dl</sub> measurements were performed in a conventional three-electrode electrochemical cell and the overall water splitting was performed in a two-electrode system in 1 M KOH with the catalyst ink loaded on commercial CFP/Ni foam as the working electrode. For urea electrolysis, 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea was used as the electrolyte. For electrochemical measurements, Hg/HgO (1 M NaOH) and graphite rod are used as reference and counter electrodes, respectively. For EIS, stability, Faradaic efficiency, ECSA determination, and activity for control samples, platinum wire and Ag/AgCl (3 M KCI) served as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. The catalyst ink was prepared by dispersing 6 mg catalyst in 500 µl ethanol containing 10 µl of 5% Nafion solution and sonicated for 60 min. A certain amount of catalyst ink was drop-casted onto CFP (loading 2 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Ni foam (loading 4 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) and left to dry in air. Then the working electrode was coated with 10 µl of 0.5% nafion solution in ethanol and dried at 60 °C overnight. Before recording the electrochemical activity of the catalyst, the catalyst was activated by CV scans at higher oxidation and reduction potentials for few seconds at a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. LSV curves were recorded at a scan rate of 5 and 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> on Ni foam and CFP, respectively, in order to minimize the capacitive current. [56] All the three electrode measurements for OER and HER are conducted at 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in backward scan unless specified. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) studies were performed to compare  $R_{\text{CT}}$  in the faradaic region. In order to exclude the influence of pH, reference electrodes and internal solutions, all reported potentials were converted from the Hg/HgO (1 M NaOH) scale to RHE following equation (2):

$$E_{(RHE)} = E_{(Hg/HgO)} + E^{0}_{(Hg/HgO)} + 0.059*pH$$
 (2)

All reported potentials were converted from the Ag/AgCl (3 M KCl) scale to RHE following equation (3):

$$E_{(RHE)} = E_{(Ag/AgCI)} + E^{0}_{(Ag/AgCI)} + 0.059*pH$$
 (3)

To calculate the current density, a single side of the working surface area was considered. The stability of the catalyst was tested by bulk electrolysis, both chronoamperometry and chronopotentiometry. To measure the faradaic efficiency, the actual amount of gas ( $O_2$  and  $H_2$ ) produced was measured using the water displacement method in an air-tight vessel. ( $^{[27]}$   $C_{\rm dl}$  values were obtained by collecting CVs at various scan rates in the non-faradaic region. ECSA values were estimated by dividing the  $C_{\rm dl}$  values by specific capacitance ( $C_s$ =0.04 mF cm $^{-2}$ ). All the potentials in three-electrode HER, OER and UOR measurements were 85% iR-corrected with respect to the ohmic resistance of the solution unless specified and calibrated to RHE based on equation (4):

$$E_{(RHE)} = E_{(Ref)} + E_{(Ref)}^0 + 0.059 \text{ pH } - 85\% iRs$$
 (4)

# Acknowledgements

A.K., S.P. and R.K.D. thank the Academic & Research Fund of IISER Kolkata, University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi and Institute postdoctoral scheme of IISER Kolkata for their fellowships, respectively. The financial support from DST-SERB under Sanction No. CRG/2020/000084 is duly acknowledged. The authors acknowledge Mr. Saikat Bag and Prof. Rahul Banerjee, IISER Kolkata for providing the TGA measurement facility.

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** Coordination polymer · Nanostructure Electrocatalyst · Water splitting · Urea splitting

- [1] J. Lee, A. Kumar, T. Yang, X. Liu, A. R. Jadhav, G. H. Park, Y. Hwang, J. Yu, C. T. Nguyen, Y. Liu, S. Ajmal, M. G. Kim, H. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* 2020, 13, 5152–5164.
- [2] A. Sahasrabudhe, H. Dixit, R. Majee, S. Bhattacharyya, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 2014.
- [3] V. Q. Bui, A. Kumar, H. T. D. Bui, J. Lee, Y. Hwang, H. M. Le, Y. Kawazoe, H. Lee, Chem. Mater. 2020, 32, 9591–9601.
- [4] R. Wang, X. Y. Dong, J. Du, J. Y. Zhao, S. Q. Zang, Adv. Mater. 2017, 30, 1703711.
- [5] B. Debnath, A. Kumar, H. G. Salunke, S. Bhattacharyya, J. Phys. Chem. C. 2017, 121, 25594–25602.
- [6] Q. Zha, M. Li, Z. Liu, Y. Ni, ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 2020, 8, 12025– 12035.
- [7] A. Kumar, S. Bhattacharyya, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 41906– 41915.
- [8] A. Kumar, D. K. Chaudhary, S. Parvin, S. Bhattacharyya, J. Mater. Chem. A. 2018, 6, 18948–18959.
- [9] A. Kumar, V. Q. Bui, J. Lee, A. R. Jadhav, Y. Hwang, M. G. Kim, Y. Kawazoe, H. Lee, ACS Energy Lett. 2021, 6, 354–363.
- [10] A. Datta, S. Kapri, S. Bhattacharyya, J. Mater. Chem. A. 2016, 4, 14614– 14624.
- [11] Q. A. Islam, R. Majee, S. Bhattacharyya, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 19453– 19464.
- [12] R. Majee, S. Chakraborty, H. G. Salunke, S. Bhattacharyya, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 1, 3342–3350.
- [13] Z.-Y. Yu, C.-C. Lang, D.-J. Gao, Y. Chen, Q.-Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S.-H. Yu, Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 1890–1897.
- [14] N. Muthuchamy, S. Jang, J. C. Park, S. Park, K. H. Park, ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 2019, 7, 15526–15536.
- [15] W. Li, F. Li, H. Yang, X. Wu, P. Zhang, Y. Shan, L. Sun, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 5074.

1861471x, 2021

, 21, Downloaded from https://aces.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asia.202100916 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/ems.

∻and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [16] T. Meyer, M. Huynh, H. Thorp, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007, 46, 5284-5304; Angew. Chem. 2007, 119, 5378-5399.
- [17] L. Duan, L. Wang, F. Li, F. Li, L. Sun, Acc. Chem. Res. 2015, 48, 2084–2096.
- [18] Y.-P. Wu, W. Zhou, J. Zhao, W.-W. Dong, Y.-Q. Lan, D.-S. Li, C. Sun, X. Bu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 13001-13005; Angew. Chem. 2017, 129, 13181-13185.
- [19] P. Muthukumar, D. Moon, S. P. Anthony, Catal. Sci. Technol. 2019, 9, 4347-4354.
- [20] P. Muthukumar, M. Pannipara, A. G. Al-Sehemi, D. Moon, S. P. Anthony CrystEngComm 2020, 22, 425-429.
- [21] G. Ruan, P. Ghosh, N. Fridman, G. Maayan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 10614-10623.
- [22] H.-C. Zhou, J. R. Long, O. M. Yaghi, Chem. Rev. 2012, 112, 673–674.
- [23] W. Fang, L. Huang, S. Zaman, Z. Wang, Y. Han, B. Y. Xia, Chem. Res. Chin. Univ. 2020, 36, 611-621.
- [24] X.-L. Wang, L.-Z. Dong, M. Qiao, Y.-J. Tang, J. Liu, Li, Y. S.-L. Li, J.-X. Su, Y.-Q. Lan, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 9660-9664; Angew. Chem. 2018, 130, 9808-9812.
- [25] J. Duan, S. Chen, C. Zhao, Nat. Commun. 2017, 8, 15341.
- [26] D. Mullangi, V. Dhavale, S. Shalini, S. Nandi, S. Collins, T. Woo, S. Kurungot, R. Vaidhyanathan, Adv. Energy Mater. 2016, 6, 1600110.
- S. Parvin, A. Kumar, A. Ghosh, S. Bhattacharyya, Chem. Sci. 2020, 11, 3893-3902.
- [28] S. Jin, ACS Energy Lett. 2019, 4, 1443-1445.
- [29] T. Xu, X. Hou, S. Liu, B. Liu, Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 2018, 259, 178-183
- [30] R. Sanz, F. Martínez, G. Orcajo, L. Wojtas, D. Briones, Dalton Trans. 2013, 42, 2392-2398
- [31] M. Diaz-Garcia, A. Mayoral, I. Diaz, M. Sanchez-Sanchez, Cryst. Growth Des. 2014, 14, 2479-2487.
- [32] S. Bordiga, C. Lamberti, G. Ricchiardi, L. Regli, F. Bonino, A. Damin, K. Lillerud, M. Bjorgen, A. Zecchina, Chem. Commun. 2004, 20, 2300-2301.
- [33] M. Bláha, V. Valeš, Z. Bastl, M. Kalbáč, H. Shiozawa, J. Phys. Chem. C 2020. 124. 24245-24250.
- [34] C. Liang, P. Zou, A. Nairan, Y. Zhang, J. Liu, K. Liu, S. Hu, F. Kang, H. Fan, C. Yang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2020, 13, 86-95.
- [35] C. Zhu, A. Osherov, M. Panzer, Electrochim. Acta 2013, 111, 771-778.
- [36] C. C. McCrory, S. Jung, I. M. Ferrer, S. M. Chatman, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 4347-4357.
- [37] S. Parvin, D. K. Chaudhary, A. Ghosh, S. Bhattacharyya, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 30682-30693.
- [38] Z. Chen, D. Cummins, B. N. Reinecke, E. Clark, M. K. Sunkara, T. F. Jaramillo, Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 4168-4175.

- [39] R. Majee, A. Kumar, T. Das, S. Chakraborty, S. Bhattacharyya, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 2881-2889; Angew. Chem. 2020, 132, 2903-2911.
- [40] K. Jayaramulu, J. Masa, D. M. Morales, O. Tomanec, V. Ranc, M. Petr, P. Wilde, Y. T. Chen, R. Zboril, W. Schuhmann, R. A. Fischer, Adv. Sci. 2018, 5, 1801029.
- [41] E. A. Flugel, V. W.-H. Lau, H. Schlomberg, R. Glaum, B. V. Lotsch, Chem. Eur. J. 2016, 22, 3676-3680.
- [42] J. Jiang, L. Huang, X. Liu, L. Ai, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 7193-
- [43] X.-F. Lu, P.-Q. Liao, J.-W. Wang, J.-X. Wu, X.-W. Chen, C.-T. He, J.-P. Zhang, G.-R. Li, X.-M. Chen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 8336-8339.
- [44] J.-O. Shen, P.-O. Liao, D.-D. Zhou, C.-T. He, J.-X. Wu, W.-X. Zhang, J.-P. Zhang, X.-M. Chen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 1778–1781.
- [45] F. Malara, S. Carallo, E. Rotunno, L. Lazzarini, E. Piperopoulos, C. Milone, A. Naldoni, ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 4786-4795.
- [46] S. Raja, H. Lin, S. Lu, Nano Energy 2019, 57, 1-13.
- [47] S. Jabarian, A. Ghaffarinejad, J. Inorg. Organomet. Polym. 2019, 29, 1565– 1574
- [48] P. M. Usov, S. R. Ahrenholtz, W. A. Maza, B. Stratakes, C. C. Epley, M. C. Kessinger, J. Zhu, A. J. Morris, J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 16818-16823.
- [49] S. Zhao, Y. Wang, J. Dong, C.-T. He, H. Yin, P. An, K. Zhao, X. Zhang, C. Gao, L. Zhang, Nat. Energy 2016, 1, 16184.
- [50] S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Karthick, S. Sam Sankar, K. Sangeetha, P. E. Karthik, S. Kundu, Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 744-771.
- [51] S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu, ACS Energy Lett. 2019, 4, 1260-1264.
- [52] D. Zhu, C. X. Guo, J. Liu, L. Wang, Y. Du, S. Qiao, Chem. Commun. 2017, 53, 10906-10909.
- [53] X. Zhu, X. Dou, J. Dai, X. An, Y. Guo, L. Zhang, S. Tao, J. Zhao, W. Chu, X. C. Zeng, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 12465-12469; Angew. Chem. 2016. 128. 12653-12657.
- [54] S. Chen, J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 3804-3808; Angew. Chem. 2016, 128, 3868-3872.
- [55] W. Xu, H. Zhang, G. Li, Z. Wu, Sci. Rep. 2014, 4, 5863.
- [56] S. Parvin, V. Hazra, A. G. Francis, S. K. Pati, S. Bhattacharyya, Inorg. Chem. **2021**, 60, 6911-6921.

Manuscript received: August 9, 2021 Revised manuscript received: August 29, 2021 Accepted manuscript online: August 30, 2021 Version of record online: September 8, 2021