---
source: Lee 等 - 2017 - Ligand‐Controlled Electrodeposition of Highly Intrinsically Active and Optically Transparent NiFeOs.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 29.888s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:04:22.655923Z
---

ChemPubSoc

DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201701869

## Ligand-Controlled Electrodeposition of Highly Intrinsically Active and Optically Transparent NiFeO $_x$ H $_y$ Film as a Water Oxidation Electrocatalyst

Husileng Lee, [a] Xiujuan Wu,\*[a] Xiaonan Yang, [a] and Licheng Sun\*[a, b]

A highly intrinsically active and optically transparent NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> water oxidation catalyst was prepared by electrodeposition of [Ni(C<sub>12</sub>-tpen)](ClO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> complex (Ni–C<sub>12</sub>). This NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> film has a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an overpotential ( $\eta$ ) of only 298 mV at nanomolar concentration and the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> remains constant over 22 h in 1 m KOH. The extremely high turnover frequency of 0.51 s<sup>-1</sup> was obtained with  $\eta$  of 300 mV. More importantly, such outstanding activity and transparency (optical loss < 0.5%) of the NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> film are attributed to a ligand effect of the dodecyl substituent in Ni–C<sub>12</sub>, which enables its future application in solar water splitting.

Exploring renewable energy resources is urgently needed as the world faces up to the problems of depletion of fossil fuels, pollution of the environment, and climate change.[1] Solar energy is an attractive candidate because of its abundance and accessibility. One approach to utilizing this alternative energy source is to convert it into chemical energy, such as H<sub>2</sub>. Overall water splitting, consisting of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), seems to be a promising way to complete this process. However, water oxidation, a 4H<sup>+</sup>/4e<sup>-</sup> process, is considered to be a bottleneck of the overall water splitting reaction because a large overpotential  $(\eta)$  is required to drive this reaction. [2] To realize largescale manufacture, many efforts have been made to date to explore low-cost and highly active catalysts based on first-row transition metals, such as Mn, [3] Fe, [4] Co, [5] Ni, [6] or Cu. [7] Among these catalysts, NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> species have been studied for several years and are considered to be among the best electrochemical water oxidation catalysts (WOCs) in alkaline media. [8] Systematic studies of Calle-Vallejo and Hu's groups, made attempts to fully understand the correlation between multimetal mixed oxides/hydroxides toward OER activity and proved by experiment and DFT calculations that  $NiFeO_xH_y$  is one of the most active first-row transition metal-based catalysts. [8a]

However, such active NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> WOCs usually show two main drawbacks against the application of solar energy. Firstly, large loadings of the bimetallic oxide result in a thick film, which causes high optical absorption. Secondly, porous supports, such as Ni mesh, Ni foam, and carbon materials, are used to improve the catalytic activity of OER. However, the opacity of this kind of support inhibits the application of NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> WOCs for solar water-splitting devices.

To avoid the negative factors of metal oxide/hydroxide films as mentioned above, herein, we report a highly intrinsically active and optically transparent NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> film on fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) electrode as an electrocatalytic WOC, which was easily prepared by electrodeposition of [Ni(C<sub>12</sub>-tpen)](ClO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> (denoted as Ni–C<sub>12</sub>; C<sub>12</sub>-tpen = N'-dodecyl-N,N,N'-tris(pyridin-2-ylmethyl)ethane-1,2-diamine; Figure 1 and Figures S1 and S2 in the Supporting Information) with dodecyl

**Figure 1.** Structures of Ni-based molecular precursors with different substituent groups.

group as a substituent in a mixture of iron-containing sodium phosphate buffer solution (NaPi) and acetonitrile (39:1 v/v, denoted as NaPi\*). To compare and explore the role of long aliphatic substituents in generation of such active and ultrathin bimetal oxide films, [Ni(Bn-tpen)](ClO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> (denoted as Ni–Bn; Bntpen = N'-benzyl-N,N,N'-tris(pyridine-2-ylmethyl) ethane-1,2-diamine; Figure 1),  $[Ni(C_1-tpen)](CIO_4)_2$   $(Ni-C_1; C_1-tpen = N'-methyl-$ N,N,N'-tris(pyridine-2-ylmethyl) ethane-1,2-diamine; Figure 1), and Ni(ClO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> were presented as precursors to produce Ni-FeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> film under the same conditions. Among them, the film deposited from Ni-C<sub>12</sub> displayed the best catalytic activity, reaching a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at  $\eta = 298$  mV with Ni concentration of only 43.2 nmol in 1 M KOH solution. Meanwhile, a Tafel slope of 39 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> was achieved and a stable current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> was sustained for at least 22 h without iR compensation. A prominent turnover frequency (TOF) of 0.51 s<sup>-1</sup> was obtained with overpotential of 300 mV. More importantly, this ultrathin NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> film is optically trans-

E-mail: wuxiujuan@dlut.edu.cn

[b] Prof. L. Sur

Department of Chemistry, School of Chemical Science and Engineering KTH Royal Institute of Technology
Stockholm 10044 (Sweden)
E-mail: lichenas@kth.se

₩:

Supporting Information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/

<sup>[</sup>a] H. Lee, Dr. X. Wu, X. Yang, Prof. L. Sun State Key Laboratory of Fine Chemicals, DUT-KTH Joint Education and Research Center on Molecular Devices, Dalian University of Technology (DUT) Dalian 116024 (P. R. China)

parent and could thus be developed as a photoanode with bismuth vanadate (BiVO<sub>4</sub>).

The catalytic films were prepared by simple electrodeposition of four precursors: Ni-C<sub>12</sub>, Ni-Bn, Ni-C<sub>1</sub>, and Ni(ClO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub> (0.5 mм) on FTO electrodes (1 cm²) in 0.1 mм NaPi\* containing impurity  $Fe^{3+}$  (2×10<sup>-5</sup> mm). The first successive 50-cycle cyclic voltammetry scans (CV, scan rate: 0.1 V s<sup>-1</sup>) with the precursors resulted in a very light brown film formed on the FTO electrodes. Subsequently, anodization of the coated FTO at a constant potential of 1.73 versus RHE in 0.5 mm NaPi in the absence of precursors was sustained for about 2 h until the catalytic current reached steady-state value (Figures S3 and S4). Depending on the precursor, the obtained films were denoted as F-C<sub>12</sub>, F-Bn, F-C<sub>1</sub>, and F-Ni<sup>2+</sup>.

The OER activity of deposited films were estimated under alkaline conditions (1 M KOH, pH 13.6) using a three-electrode system with catalyst-coated FTO as working electrode (WE), Hg/HgO as reference electrode (RE), and Pt wire as counter electrode (CE). The polarization curves of thin films were obtained by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV; Figure 2a) at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with iR compensation. The overpotential, defined as the potential where the current density reaches 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, is commonly used as a standard of performance for heterogeneous WOCs. [9] F-C<sub>12</sub> can efficiently drive the OER with  $\eta$  of 298 mV to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is comparable to those of the state-of-the-art OER catalysts, especially in the catalytic system with conductive glass (FTO or ITO) as electrode (Table S2). In contrast, the  $\eta$  values of F-Bn, F-C<sub>1</sub>, and F-Ni<sup>2+</sup> with a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> are 352, 387, and 426 mV, respectively. To gain additional insight into the OER process on the films, Tafel curves were ob-

Figure 2. a) iR-corrected LSV curves of blank FTO (gray), F-Ni<sup>2+</sup> (black), F-C<sub>1</sub> (green), F–Bn (blue), and F– $C_{12}$  (red) in  $Ni^{2+}$ -free 1 M KOH solution. RE: Hg/ HgO; CE: Pt wire; scan rate: 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>; electrode area: 1 cm<sup>2</sup>. b) Tafel plot of F-Ni<sup>2+</sup> (black), F-C<sub>1</sub> (green), F-Bn (blue), and F-C<sub>12</sub> (red) in Ni<sup>2+</sup>-free 1 м KOH solution. The overpotential  $\eta = (V_{appl} - iR) - E_0$ , where,  $V_{appl}$  is the applied potential, iR is the potential loss for resistance, and  $E_{0}=0.803$  V is the thermodynamic potential for water oxidation at pH 13.6.

www.chemsuschem.org

tained by plotting overpotential as a function of logarithm of current density (Figure 2b). The Tafel slope of F-C<sub>12</sub> is merely 39 mV decade<sup>-1</sup>, which is much smaller than previously reported materials including RuO<sub>2</sub> (Table S2).<sup>[10]</sup> For F–Bn, F–C<sub>1</sub>, and F-Ni<sup>2+</sup>, the Tafel slopes are 123, 207, and 240 mV decade<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. It is clearly shown that F-C<sub>12</sub> is much more active than the other three films in electrocatalytic water oxidation.

The composition and valence state of F-C<sub>12</sub> were examined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Raman spectroscopy, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), and inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES). Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> spectrum displays a main peak at 855.3 eV, with a satellite peak at 861.0 eV, which can be assigned to Ni<sup>2+</sup> species (Figure 3 a).[11] XPS analysis of Fe 2p shows two dominant peaks at 710.9 (Fe  $2p_{3/2}$ ) and 724.1 eV (Fe  $2p_{1/2}$ ), characteristic of high-spin Fe<sup>3+</sup> species (Figure 3b).<sup>[12]</sup> The resolved peaks at 530.1 and 531.4 eV correspond to O<sup>2-</sup> in the oxide and OH<sup>-</sup> in the hydroxide, suggesting the formation of mixed NiFe oxide and hydroxide/oxyhydroxide on the FTO surface (Figure 3 c). [4a,8a] The Raman spectrum of F-C<sub>12</sub> shows two strong peaks at 480 and 554 cm<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3 d), indicating the presence of NiOOH species, according to a previous report, [13] which is in good accordance with the analysis of XPS results. Further study by EDX revealed that a small amount of Fe, originating from NaPi, was incorporated into the F-C<sub>12</sub> film during the electrodeposition process. It should be noted that the amount of iron is hard to determine by EDX because the total loading of bimetal oxide is nanomolar in concentration (Figure S5). By combining XPS with ICP-OES analysis, F-C<sub>12</sub> was assigned as Ni<sub>0.73</sub>Fe<sub>0.27</sub>O<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub>, whereas F–Bn, F–C<sub>1</sub>, and F–Ni<sup>2+</sup> were found to be  $Ni_{0.37}Fe_{0.63}O_xH_y$ ,  $Ni_{0.64}Fe_{0.36}O_xH_y$ , and  $Ni_{0.25}Fe_{0.75}O_xH_y$ , respectively (Figures S6 and S7).

The most electrocatalytically active F-C<sub>12</sub> film was next selected for investigation of its kinetic and optical properties. The TOF was calculated according to a previously reported method in 1 м KOH (See experimental detail in the Supporting Information).[14] Assuming all loading metal sites are electrochemically active in water oxidation reaction, a TOF of 0.51 s<sup>-1</sup> was obtained for F-C<sub>12</sub> with overpotential of 300 mV (Figure S8). Since some of these metal sites are electrochemically inaccessible, the TOFs could not represent the maximum catalytic activity of oxygen-evolving catalysts (OECs). Even so, this catalyst is comparable to  $IrO_x$  film (6 s<sup>-1</sup> at  $\eta = 0.68$  V)<sup>[15]</sup> and among the most active reported NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> OER catalysts (Table S2). The extremely low concentration of deposited catalyst provokes us to investigate its optical properties by UV/Vis absorption spectroscopy (Figure 4a). Although the color of the electrode surface changed after electrodeposition, due to the formation of NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> film, F-C<sub>12</sub> has almost no optical absorption (transmittance T > 99.5%) in comparison with blank FTO, which indicates that an optically transparent NiFeO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> OEC was prepared by electrodeposition of novel molecular precursor Ni-C<sub>12</sub>. To evaluate the potential of F-C<sub>12</sub> as an interesting photoresponsive material, a simple photoanode was fabricated by electrodeposition of the catalyst on a BiVO<sub>4</sub>-coated FTO electrode. The photoelectrochemical (PEC) properties of photoanodes were examined in 0.1 M pH 9 NaPi under AM 1.5G si-

Figure 3. Sections of the XPS spectra of F@C<sup>12</sup> film around the (a) Ni 2p, (b) Fe 2p, and (c) O 1s energy regions. d) Raman spectra of F@C<sup>12</sup> on FTO electrode before (black) and after (red) anodization.

Figure 4. a) UV/Vis absorption spectra of blank FTO electrode (black) and F@C<sup>12</sup> coated FTO electrode (red). b) J–V curves for bare BiVO<sup>4</sup> (black) and F@C12/BiVO<sup>4</sup> (red) photoanodes measured in 0.1m NaPi buffer (pH 9) under illumination (AM 1.5G, 100 mWcm@<sup>2</sup> , scan rate=10 mVs @1

mulated sunlight (100 mW/cm<sup>2</sup> ). The typical photocurrent–potential (J–V) plot for OER indicates that F@C<sup>12</sup> modified BiVO<sup>4</sup> (denote as F@C12/BiVO<sup>4</sup> ) shows enhanced photocurrent in comparison to bare BiVO<sup>4</sup> (Figure 4 b). The photocurrent–time (J–t) study of F@C12/BiVO<sup>4</sup> displayed a slight decrease in photocurrent density within several minutes (Figure S9). Preliminary study of the PEC properties of F@C12-coated semiconductor photoelectrode reveals a strong possibility to assemble an effective and stable PEC device.[14,16]

To optimize the electrocatalytic activity and optical properties of the deposited film, the NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> loading was varied by changing the cycle number of the CV scan from 50 to 30, 100, and 200 with Ni@C<sup>12</sup> as precursor and the loading mass was measured by ICP-OES (Figure S10). F@C<sup>12</sup> with a 50-cycle CV scan exhibited the highest electrocatalytic activity due to the suitable film thickness.[8a] The colors of the four prepared films became darker with CV scan cycles, which indicates optical transparency decreases with loading amount of NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> . [7c] The electrodeposition process of active materials was performed in 0.1m NaPi\* at various pH values and the 50th cycle CV curves were recorded (Figure S11).

1864564x, 2017, 23, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201701869 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

In view of practical application, the long durability of F@C<sup>12</sup> was examined under harsh basic condition (1m KOH). In contrast to previously reported NiO<sup>x</sup> films deposited from molecular precursors that suffer from instability, [17] the film we obtained exhibited a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> and no current decay was detected over least 22 h (Figure 5 a). Large amount of bubbles, at the same time, were observed on the surface of the FTO electrode. Due to the strong turbulance and release of the bubbles from the electrode, the current curve has some fluctuation but this did not affect the stability. In a custom-built gas-tight electrochemical cell, the amount of evolved O<sup>2</sup> was determined by gas chromatography. 85.6 mmol of O<sup>2</sup> was produced with 33.54 C of charge passed for 2 h of electrolysis at 1.63 V versus RHE, corresponding to a faradaic efficiency of 98% (Figure S12).

To explore the reason behind such a difference in electrocatalytic activities between F@C<sup>12</sup> and the other three films for OER, several effective factors such as morphology, charge transfer, electrochemically active surface area (ESCA) and electrodeposition rate of these four catalysts were investigated under same conditions. Firstly, the morphology of the thin films was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). All films showed similar nanostructures consisting of nanoparticles with diameter of 100–200 nm (Figure S13). The

Figure 5. a) Chronopontimetric curve obtained in constant current (j=10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> ) bulk water electrolysis with F@C<sup>12</sup> electrode in 1m KOH solution. RE: Hg/HgO; CE: Pt wire; electrode area: 1 cm<sup>2</sup> . No iR compensation was applied. b) Nyquist plots of F@Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (black), F@C<sup>1</sup> (green), F@Bn (blue), and F@C<sup>12</sup> (red). Dots and solid lines represent the measured values and fitted results, respectively.

size of nanoparticles increases with the increasing number of carbons in three Ni complexes, and F@Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> shows a smoother surface than the other three films.[18] BET examination was not successful as the NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> film is too thin to scrape from the FTO electrode. X-ray diffraction (XRD) shows that only peaks of the SnO<sup>2</sup> substrate are observed on these deposited catalysts, which indicates that these films are formed as amorphous materials (Figure S14). Secondly, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted to examine charge transfer under the oxygen-evolving condition. Based on the Nyquist plots, it is apparent that the charge transfer impedance of F@C<sup>12</sup> is the smallest among the four materials in this study (Figure 5 b), which in good accordance with the result that F@C<sup>12</sup> shows the best activity in electrocatalytic water oxidation. Thirdly, ECSA is another important factor for evaluation of OECs, which can be calculated by using the electrochemical effective double-layer capacity (Cdl), which was obtained from fitting results of EIS data (see experimental details in the Supporting Information, Figure S15 and Table S1). Surprisingly, Cdl analysis gives tvery close Cdl values of 1.15, 0.80, 1.34, and 1.07 mF cm @2 for F@C12, F@Bn, F@C<sup>1</sup> , and F@Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> , respectively. Combining the excellent performance of F@C<sup>12</sup> in Tafel slope calculation, TOF value, and electrical conductivity, we concluded that the high catalytic activity of F@C<sup>12</sup> derives from the intrinsic properties of the catalyst.[11] Fourthly, the decomposition rate of the Ni complexes was studied by UV/Vis spectrophotometry. UV/Vis spectra were recorded after every 10 cycles of the CV scan under the electrodeposition conditions discussed above. Ni@C<sup>12</sup> showed clear decay within 50-cycley in comparison to Ni@Bn and Ni@C<sup>1</sup> (Figure S16), suggesting that the dodecyl group enhanced the decomposition rate of Ni complexes. This is strong evidence for a ligand effect whereby nickel loading and the composition of the NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> material could be controlled by using a dodecyl-substituted Ni complex. Finally, the surface coverages of nickel and iron in all deposited OECs were quantified by using ICP-OES. For F@C12, the result showed that only 62.9 nmol of total bimetal hydroxide was deposited on the 1 cm 2 FTO slide. For F@Bn, F@C<sup>1</sup> , and F@Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> , 24.2, 49.8, and 17.7 nmol of active materials were measured on FTO electrodes (1 cm<sup>2</sup> ) after the electrodeposition process, respectively (Figure S7 a).

In comparison, F@C<sup>12</sup> exhibits better intrinsic activity, lower electrical resistance, larger loading, and more suitable Ni/Fe ratio than the catalysts produced from complexes bearing benzyl and methyl substituents, and Ni salt. Based on the aforementioned detection results, we considered that the outstanding performance of F@C<sup>12</sup> can be attributed to the ligand effect in dodecyl group-modified [Ni(C12-tpen)](ClO<sup>4</sup> )<sup>2</sup> complex. Firstly, the concentration of Ni precursors on the FTO electrode surface can be increased by the hydrophobicity of the dodecyl group and the decomposition rate of Ni@C<sup>12</sup> was also enhanced by the dodecyl substitute, which controlled the total loading amount and the composition of the NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> material. According to previous reports, the Fe content of 27% for F@C<sup>12</sup> is within the range of optimum composition.[19] Secondly, the high porosity of the catalyst surface attributed to bulk dodecyl group and self-aggregation of Ni@C<sup>12</sup> not only decreases the charge transfer impedance of catalyst,[18,20] but also prevents gas bubble detention on the surface of the electrode. The dodecyl substituent appears essential for formation of the extraordinarily active NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> catalyst.

In conclusion, a nickel(II) complex incorporating a long aliphatic substituent was applied for preparing highly intrinsically active, ultrathin, and optically transparent NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> film through a simple electrodeposition process in NaPi\* for incorporation of Fe. The obviously improved activity of F@C<sup>12</sup> in OER compared with F@Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> , F@C<sup>1</sup> , and F@Bn is attributed to a ligand effect. The prepared F@C<sup>12</sup> achieved an overpotential of 298 mV for a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> with a loading amount of NiFeOxH<sup>y</sup> at nanomolar concentration. A TOF value of 0.51 s @<sup>1</sup> was measured at h=300 mV in 1m KOH, which imply the high intrinsic activity of this new active material. Moreover, the optical transparency of F@C<sup>12</sup> (optical loss <0.5%) enables the preparation of an effective PEC device for using solar energy in water splitting.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21403028), the National Basic Research Program of China (973 program, 2014CB239402), the Swedish Energy Agency, and the K&A Wallenberg Foundation.

## Conflict of interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: electrocatalysis · electrodeposition · ligand effects · thin films · water oxidation

- [1] a) J. Tollefson, [Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/473134a) 2011, 473[, 134– 135](https://doi.org/10.1038/473134a); b) Z. Yu, F. Li, L. Sun, [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE03565H) [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE03565H) Sci. 2015, 8[, 760– 775](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE03565H).
- [2] a) H. Inoue, T. Shimada, Y. Kou, Y. Nabetani, D. Masui, S. Takagi, H. Tachibana, ChemSusChem 2011, 4, 173– 179; b) P. Du, R. Eisenberg, [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee03250c) [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee03250c) Sci. 2012, 5[, 6012– 6021.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee03250c)
- [3] a) A. Indra, P. W. Menezes, I. Zaharieva, E. Baktash, J. Pfrommer, M. Schwarze, H. Dau, M. Driess, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201307543) Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 13206 – [13210](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201307543); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201307543) 2013, 125, 13447 – 13451; b) C. H. Kuo, W. Li, L. Pahalagedara, A. M. El-Sawy, D. Kriz, N. Genz, C. Guild, T. Ressler, S. L. Suib, J. He, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201407783) 2015, 127, 2375– 2380.
- [4] a) Y. Wu, M. Chen, Y. Han, H. Luo, X. Su, M. T. Zhang, X. Lin, J. Sun, L. Wang, L. Deng, W. Zhang, C. Rui, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201412389) Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 4870 – [4875](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201412389); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201412389) 2015, 127, 4952– 4957; b) F. Li, L. Bai, H. Li, Y. Wang, F. Yu, L. Sun, Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CC00766J) 2016, 52, 5753 – 5756.
- [5] a) M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1162018) 2008, 321, 1072 1075; b) Y. Surendranath, M. Dinca, D. G. Nocera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131[, 2615](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja807769r) – [2620.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja807769r)
- [6] a) M. Dinca˘, Y. Surendranath, D. G. Nocera, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2010, 107, 10337 – 10341; b) P. Zhang, M. Wang, Y. Yang, T. Yao, H. Han, L. Sun, Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2015.11.020) 2016, 19, 98 – 107.
- [7] a) F. Yu, F. Li, B. Zhang, H. Li, L. Sun, ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs501510e) 2015, 5, 627 630; b) X. Liu, H. Jia, Z. Sun, H. Chen, P. Xu, P. Du, [Electrochem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2014.05.029) 2014, 46, [1 –4](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2014.05.029); c) J. Du, Z. Chen, S. Ye, B. J. Wiley, T. J. Meyer, Angew. [Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408854) Ed. 2015, 54[, 2073](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408854) [– 2078](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408854); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201408854) 2015, 127, 2101 – 2106.
- [8] a) C. G. Morales-Guio, L. Liardet, X. Hu, J. Am. [Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05196) 2016, 138, [8946](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05196) [– 8957](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05196); b) O. Diaz-Morales, I. Ledezm-Yanez, M. T. M. Koper, F. Calle-

- vallejo, ACS Catal. 2015, 5[, 5380](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01638)  [5387;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01638) c) J. Wang, L. Ji, S. Zuo, Z. Chen, [Adv. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201700107) Mater. 2017, 7, 1700107.
- [9] C. C. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Am. [Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p) 2013, 135[, 16977 –16987.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p)
- [10] M. Gao, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, Q. Fang, S. Gu, J. Jiang, Y. Yan, J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja502128j) Chem. Soc. 2014, 136[, 7077 –](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja502128j) 7084.
- [11] K. Fan, H. Chen, Y. Ji, H. Huang, P. M. Claesson, Q. Daniel, B. Philippe, H. Rensmo, F. Li, Y. Luo, L. Sun, Nat. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms11981) 2016, 7, 11981.
- [12] D. Guo, J. Qi, W. Zhang, R. Cao, [ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201601151) 2017, 10, 394– 400.
- [13] A. Singh, S. L. Y. Chang, R. K. Hocking, U. Bach, L. Spiccia, [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cy00017f) Sci. Technol. 2013, 3[, 1725](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cy00017f) [– 1732](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cy00017f).
- [14] C. G. Morales-Guio, M. T. Mayer, A. Yella, S. D. Tilley, M. Gr-tzel, X. Hu, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b05544) Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137[, 9927](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b05544) [– 9936](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b05544).
- [15] T. Nakagawa, C. A. Beasley, R. W. Murray, J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp9060076) C 2009, 113, [12958](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp9060076) [– 12961](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp9060076).
- [16] J. Wang, L. L. Ji, Z. Chen, ACS Catal. 2016, 6[, 6987– 6992.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b01837)
- [17] a) A. Singh, S. L. Y. Chang, R. K. Hocking, U. Bach, L. Spiccia, [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/C2EE23862D) Environ. Sci. [2013](https://doi.org/10.1039/C2EE23862D), 6[, 579– 586](https://doi.org/10.1039/C2EE23862D); b) D. A. Kuznetsov, D. V. Konev, N. S. Komarova, A. M. Ionov, R. N. Mozhchil, I. V. Fedyanin, Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CC04400J) 2016, 52, [9255](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CC04400J) [– 9258](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CC04400J).
- [18] K. Fominykh, P. Chernev, I. Zaharieva, J. Sicklinger, G. Stefanic, M. Dçblinger, A. Meller, A. Pokharel, S. Bçcklein, C. Scheu, ACS [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b00520) 2015, 9, [5180](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b00520) [– 5188](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b00520).
- [19] M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135[, 12329 –](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja405351s) 12337.
- [20] I. Corbucci, A. Petronilho, H. Meller-Bunz, L. Rocchigiani, M. Albrecht, A. Macchioni, ACS Catal. 2015, 5[, 2714](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00319) [– 2718.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00319)

1864564x, 2017, 23, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201701869 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Manuscript received: October 3, 2017

Accepted manuscript online: October 22, 2017 Version of record online: November 14, 2017