---
source: Li 等 - 2023 - Key Roles of Interfacial OH− ion Distribution on Proton Coupled Electron Transfer Kinetic.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 26.032s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:07:29.648287Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/((please add manuscript number))

# Article type: Research Article

Key roles of interfacial OH- ion distribution on proton coupled electron transfer kinetics toward urea oxidation reaction

Ruopeng Lie, Yaqiang Lie, Peixia Yange\*, Penghui Rene, Dan Wange, Xiangyu Lue, Huiling Zhange, Zhengfeng Zhange, Pengfei Yane, Jinqiu Zhange, Maozhong Ane, Bo Wange\*, Huakun Liude, Shixue Doude

R. P. Li, Y. Q. Li, Prof. P. X. Yang, P. H. Ren, X. Y. Lu, H. L. Zhang, Dr. J. Q. Zhang, Prof. M. Z. An, Dr. B. Wang

<sup>a</sup>MIIT Key Laboratory of Critical Materials Technology for New Energy Conversion and Storage, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, 150001 Harbin, China.

E-mail: yangpeixia@hit.edu.cn (P. X. Yang); wangbo19880804@163.com (B. Wang)

Dr. D. Wang

This is the anti-or manuscript accepted for publication and has undergone full peer review but has not been the 19th the copyediting, typesetting, pagination and proofreading process, which may lead to differences between this version and the <u>Version of Record</u>. Please cite this article as <u>doi:</u> 10.1002/sml1.202302151.

# WILEY-VCH

161 36829, 2023, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202302151 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<sup>b</sup>Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Advanced Catalytic Materials and Technology, School of Petrochemical Engineering, Changzhou University, Changzhou, Jiangsu, 213164, P. R. China.

Dr. Z. F. Zhang, P. F. Yan

<sup>c</sup>Beijing Key Laboratory of Microstructure and Property of Solids, Faculty of Materials and Manufacturing, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing 100124, PR China.

Prof. H. K. Liu, Prof. S. X. Dou

dInstitute of Energy Materials Science (IEMS), University of Shanghai for Science and technology, 516 Jungong Road, Shanghai, 200093, China.

eInstitute for Superconducting & Electronic Materials, Australian Institute of Innovative Materials, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW 2500, Australia.

Keywords; Nickel based (oxy)hydroxides; Urea oxidation reaction; Proton-coupled electron

transfer: Electrode-electrolyte interfacial environment; High-efficiency renewable electrolysis.

Abstract

Enhancing alkaline urea oxidation reaction (UOR) activity is essential to upgrade renewable electrolysis systems. As a core step of UOR, proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) determines the overall performance, and accelerating its kinetic remains challenge. In this work, we report a newly raised electrocatalyst of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> with derived multi-metal co-doping (oxy)hydroxide species during electrochemical oxidation states, which ensures considerable alkaline UOR activity (10/500 mA cm-2 at 1.32/1.52 V vs. RHE, respectively). Impressively, comprehensive studies elucidate the correlation between the electrode-electrolyte interfacial microenvironment and the electrocatalytic urea oxidation behavior. Specifically, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> featured with dendritic nanostructure creates a strengthened electric field distribution. This structural factor prompts the local OH- enrichment in electrical double layer (EDL), so that the dehydrogenative oxidation of the catalyst is directly reinforced to facilitate the subsequent PCET kinetics of nucleophilic urea, resulting in high UOR performance. In practical utilization, NiCoMoCuOxHy-driven UOR coupled cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and carbon dioxide reduction reaction (CO2RR), and harvested high value-added products of H<sup>2</sup> and C2H4, respectively. Our work clarifies a novel

mechanism to improve electrocatalytic UOR performance through structure-induced interfacial microenvironment modulation.

Keywords: Nickel-based (oxy)hydroxides; Urea oxidation reaction; Proton-coupled electron transfer; Electrode-electrolyte interfacial environment; High-efficiency renewable electrolysis.

## 1. Introduction

Searching for an electro-oxidation reaction with lower thermodynamic potential, and coupled with valuable electroreduction reaction (e.g. hydrogen evolution, CO<sup>2</sup> reduction), is considered as a promising strategy to promote the energy-saving electrolytic synthesis of renewable resources[1]. Among the candidates, urea oxidation reaction (UOR) has a significantly lower thermodynamic potential of 0.37 V vs. RHE than oxidation evolution reaction (OER, 1.23 V) [2] . Meanwhile, its de-nitrification role of urea-rich industrial and domestic sewage implements the concept of environmentally friendly electrolysis, thus attracting extensive attention [1b, 3]. Nevertheless, the sluggish UOR kinetics limitation due to the intrinsically multi-electron transfers paths, complex nucleophile dehydrogenative oxidation and intermolecular coupling processes, results in low electrolysis efficiency and urgently need to be overcome by high-activity electrocatalysts.

Previous studies have elucidated that the UOR mechanism first undergoes urea dehydrogenation, a prerequisite nucleophile oxidation process that serve for the subsequent N-N coupling, hydration and rearrangement, in which the proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) process is the link [4]. The molecularly simulated urea dehydrogenation reaction pathway calculated in Supplementary Fig. S1 shows that dehydrogenation is an energy-consuming processes of the overall reaction (From PCET 1 to PCET 6), so that optimizing PCET kinetics is conducive to improve UOR performance. Electrogenerated nickel (oxy)hydroxide species have been recognized as the desirable candidate because of its H-deficient sites with considerable intrinsic activity in various PCET-involved electro-oxidative reactions [5]. Theoretically, the rational electronic configuration and moderate nickel-oxygen hybrid can be realized by adjusting the Ni-OOH phase through heterometallic doping, which can weaken the urea dehydrogenation energy barrier and improve intrinsic UOR activity [1c, 5b, 5c, 6]. Intriguingly, design catalysts for quaternary or even more heterogeneous metal categories endows it with high-entropy states, thereby achieving an unexpected increase in catalytic activity. This so-called cocktail effect has been confirmed in many kinds of catalyst candidates, including (oxy)hydroxide, alloy, chalcogenide, phosphide, oxide, et al., which provides references for fabrication of nickel-based catalysts with heterogeneous metal doping[7] .

Meanwhile, a non-negligible factor should be pointed out that the concentrations of the electrolyte and the reactants directly associate with the catalytic kinetics, and also determine the overall reaction kinetics [5d, 8]. Since OH- directly participates in the preactivated

dehydrogenation processes of nickel-based catalyst to generate (oxy)hydroxide species, it may have a rate-controlling effect [9]. On the other hand, theoretically, the strong polarization under the electro-oxidation potential will disturb the ion distribution on the electrode-electrolyte electronic double layer, resulting in limited mass transfer ability [8c, 10] . Accordingly, a tunable interfacial environment with optimized OH- distribution enabling accelerated (oxy)hydroxide species reconstruction to promote PCET, is feasible to promote the overall electrocatalytic processes.

In this study, we focus on improving PCET kinetics to activate the electrocatalytic UOR performance. A novel quaternary (oxy)hydroxide electrocatalyst with dendritic nanostructure that labeled as NiCoMoCuOxHy, is designed and fabricated via a bubble-template electrodeposition and subsequent electrochemical activation strategy. The highly disordered nickel-based metallic-(oxy)hydroxides formation by heteroatoms decorating (Mo, Cu and Co) endows favorable electronic structures and coordination states, enabling considerable UOR activity. Importantly, experimental and simulation results jointly reveal that a strengthening electric field distribution induced by unique dendritic high-curvature nanostructure creates an OH- -rich microenvironment. Further comprehensive studies verify the critical influences for abundant OHreactant, which favors the active Ni-based (oxy)hydroxide reconstruction to facilitate the continuous and efficient PCET processes, thereby ensuring high UOR performance. Furthermore, to evaluate the practical application of anodic UOR, coupled with cathodic HER and CO2RR, the as-constructed urea-assisted overall electrolyzers exhibit high-efficient H<sup>2</sup> generation and ethylene, respectively.

## 2. Results and discussion

Previous representative studies have demonstrated that homogenously distributed heteroatoms decorated on conventional materials to construct high-entropy (HE) materials, can endow "cocktail effect" that is feasible to improve catalytic activity[11]. In this regard, we propose a heteroatom co-doping strategy to positively tune the intrinsic electronic configuration of nickel-based (oxy)hydroxide candidates (Figure 1a). DFT calculations were carried out to theoretically predict the modulation effect by heteroatoms co-doping (Mo, Co and Cu) on active nickel-based (oxy)hydroxides (Supplementary Figure S2). Density of states (tDOS and corresponded pDOS) models with different element orbitals show that the bonding and antibonding orbital between Ni 3d and O 2p can be regulated by Mo, Cu, and Co doping, respectively. Thereinto, NiCoMoCu model features wide and relatively lower intensity, revealing that the chemical bonds are of strengthened covalent (Supplementary Figure S3). The urea reaction processes occurring on the catalyst surface were then studied. Considering that PCET 1 is a prerequisite and energy-determined step, all the constructed catalyst-reactant model was used to calculate the energy barrier in this step and to evaluate the kinetic properties. COHP analyses (Figure 1b) imply that the Fermi level directly passes through the anti-bonding orbital of the N-H bond, which contributes to the urea N-H bond breakage on the NiCoMoCu surface. Consequently, NiCoMoCu model has the relatively lowest energy barriers of 3.209 eV toward nucleophilic oxidation than NiCu (5.706 eV), NiMo (3.661 eV), NiCo (3.938 eV) and Ni (4.858 eV) (Figure 1c). All these results imply the thermodynamic advantage for active (oxy)hydroxides generation under heterometallic

synergy that facilitates proton trapping behavior, so as to modulate the intrinsic PCET energy barrier.

A bottom-up route for the synthesis of NiCoMoCu-based (oxy)hydroxide is illustrated schematically in Supplementary Figure S4a. The self-supported nickel foam (NF) serves as substrate, and after undergoing gas-template electrodeposition, the precursor of NiCoMoCu-based solid solution was fabricated with a delicate dendritic nanostructure (Supplementary Figure S4b and S4c). The following in-situ electrochemical activation in 1 M KOH (detailed in Supplementary Figure S5) realized the surficial reconstruction (labeled as NiCoMoCuOxHy). The corresponding activation CV curves, in-situ Raman spectra and the oxygen atomic ratio rise in SEM-EDS analyses imply the characteristics nickel oxidation behavior to generate (oxy)hydroxide species. In the scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> (Figure 1d), the 3D architecture is maintained after activation, while a cross-linked morphology can be identified on the surface. The superhydrophilic properties induced by 3D structure are beneficial for heterogeneous electrocatalytic reactions (liquid contact angle test in Supplementary Figure S6). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) characterization of the as-prepared NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> in Figure 1e-1g verified an epitaxial growth of phase existed after activation. As displayed in Fig. 1d and H1 area, the internal metallic nickel-based species exhibit a well-defined interplanar spacing of 0.209 nm corresponding to Ni (111), which is consistent with the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) results (inset of Figure 1e) and XRD patterns (Figure S5d). Additionally, interface with different crystalline states can be observed, in which the low crystallinity specie emerged

in H2 area is designated as nickel-based hydroxides on the surface. In Figure 1h, the high-angle annular dark field-scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) elemental mappings and SEM energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) analyses display NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> with a homogeneous element distribution.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out to investigate the surficial elemental composition (Figure 1i and Supplementary Figure S7). Towards NiCoMoCu-pre, the high-resolution spectra of Ni 2p exhibit two main peaks located at 856.3 and 874.2 eV corresponding to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, and metallic Ni<sup>0</sup> species appear at 852.6 eV, illustrates metallic Ni state as well as the partial oxidization [12]. The Co 2p spectra can be deconvoluted into Co 2p 3/2 (776.4 eV) and 2p 1/2 in oxidation (781.3 eV), respectively, similar with Ni composition [11a, 13]. The Mo 3d spectra shows a pair of oxidation peaks were identified at 232.5 and 235.6 eV, respectively, and Mo<sup>0</sup> peak denoted at 227.5 eV is identified that arising from the alloying of co-electrodeposition [12c, 14]. For Cu 2p, peaks at 934.6 and 932.8 eV are ascribed to Cu1+/2+ the copper metallic species [15]. Significantly, after electrochemical activation, all the metallic species are attenuated, along with the emergence of higher oxidation states and an O atom ratio increasing, together prove the oxidized phases generation. Furthermore, the as-prepared catalysts exhibited traces of reduced Cu, Mo ratios in both XPS and ICP analyses before and after undergoing activation (Supplementary Table S1), which was attributed to a property of their solvation behavior. To further investigate the electronic configuration, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was performed, and the same synthetic route only without introducing heteroatoms was adopted to prepare counterpart of

NiOxH<sup>y</sup> (Supplementary Fig. S8). As displayed in Figure 1j, the X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES) spectra of the Ni K-edge curves exhibit an oxidation species coexist with a state ranging of 0/2+, while a negative energy shifts of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> than NiOxHy, implying that the coexistence of heteroatoms doping changes in local electronic environment. The EXAFS spectra and the corresponding fitting results at the Ni K-edge (Figure 1k, Supplementary Figure S9 and Table S2) show stable Ni-O bonding, as well as the greater coordination unsaturation of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> compared to NiOxH<sup>y</sup> (the coordination number of 5.7 slightly lower than that of 5.95). These indicate that the modulated d-p orbital hybridization in Ni-O-M (M: Co, Mo, Cu) bridging, which is considered to be potentially beneficial for enhancing the inherent electrocatalytic properties either preferential electronic environment or more active sites exposure [11a, 12b] .

With the desirable nanostructure and composition, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> has potential to offer a promising electrocatalysis urea oxidation performance. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was performed to evaluate the UOR activity in a standard three-electrode electrochemical system, and NiOxH<sup>y</sup> was also included for comparison. As shown in Figure 2a, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> has a remarkable activity with a lower onset potential, and 1.32/1.52 V to deliver the current densities of 10/500 mA cm-2 . After adding 0.33 M urea, the UOR performance of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> has a negative shift of 240 mV than OER at 100 mA cm-2 , demonstrating an institutive reaction thermodynamic advantages. Moreover, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> also displays an obviously better activity than that of NiOxH<sup>y</sup> (1.32 V vs 1.36 V at 10 mA cm-2 ) (Figure 2b). The calculated Tafel slopes (inset of Figure 2b) exhibit a relatively lower values

of NiCoMoCuO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> (45.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than NiO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> (74.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), demonstrating an improved UOR reaction kinetics by heteroatoms doping. Further testing of NiCoMoCu-pre in Supplementary **Figure S10** also elucidates the critical role of electrochemical activation for enhanced UOR performance.

Next. comprehensive electrochemical analyses were adopted to investigate the properties systemically. The Nyquist plots measured by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) are shown in Supplementary Figure S11 that NiCoMoCuO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> exhibits a relatively lower charge-transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ) of 2.69  $\Omega$  at 1.40 V, which ensures fast electron transfer during high current density reaction (corresponding fitting results in Supplementary **Table S3**). The calculated double-layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) and electrochemical surface area (ECSA) were performed to evaluate the active sites density (detailed in Supplementary Figure S12). Compared with the precursor, NiCoMoCuO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> exhibits a higher C<sub>dl</sub> values of 29.3 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> than NiO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> of 19.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>. Moreover, the ECSA-normalized LSV curves intuitively illustrates that factors besides active area can also determine the catalytic kinetics. For evaluating the intrinsic activity, turnover frequency (TOF) values were then investigated in Supplementary Figure \$13. The corresponding TOF-normalized LSV curves show that under the potential of 1.50 V, NiCoMoCuO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> with the values of 0.074 s<sup>-1</sup> is obviously higher than NiO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> (0.031 s<sup>-1</sup>), confirming the improvement of site activity. An integrated radar charts in Figure 2d visually exhibit the outstanding performance of NiCoMoCuO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> candidate. Meanwhile, the UOR performance comparison with single-species doping candidates of NiCoO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub>, NiMoO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> and NiCuO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>v</sub> (Supplementary

Figure S14 and Figure S15) also confirms the key role of multimetallic co-doping, which is consistent with the above DFT predictions. Emphatically, it can be observed that the nanostructure of the catalyst changes significantly after the introduction of copper, that is, from a relatively smooth morphology to a fine dendrite. This structural characterization may affect on UOR performance and will be elaborated in subsequent chapters. Afterwards, the eletrocatalytic stability assessment was performed by chronopotentiometric testing under gradient current densities (10, 100 and 200 mA cm-2 , respectively). As displayed in Figure 2e, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> remains a 20 h stability without significant overpotential increased. Further XPS and SEM and the accompanying EDS results in Supplementary Fig. S16 together confirm the component and structural integrity.

In view of that solution reactant concentration directly impact the heterogeneous catalysis performances, the effect of different KOH and urea concentrations, respectively, were systemically investigated to identify the kinetic mechanism. As shown in Figure 2f, a promoted anodic current density follows with the increasing OH- concentration from 0.1 to 1 M, and the corresponding calculated reaction orders of OHis 1.84. The same correlation also appears in changing urea concentration (Figure 2g) along with a relatively lower reaction order of 0.39, clarifying that the UOR reaction kinetics stronger depend on OH- concentration, and we will explore the key impact of this factor on UOR performance in detail later (Figure 2h).

Given that the significant correlation between catalyst-electrolyte interfacial mircoenviroment states and catalytic performance in heterogeneous reaction, it is predictable

that the OHion, as the core reactant participate of UOR confirmed by reaction order results, its interfacial distribution can kinetically determine the overall UOR oxidation performance. Theoretically, the reactant enrichment environment induced by the strengthened electric field can be realized by altering the nanostructure feature of electrocatalysts (namely tip discharge effect produced by high-curvature structure), which has been recognized in a various of catalytic reaction that facilitates catalytic activity as well as higher production selectivity (e.g. CO<sup>2</sup> reduction reaction (CO2RR) and HER) [8e, 16]. As a proof of concept, for NiCoMoCuOxHy, we then focus on exploring the mechanism among the dendritic high-curvature nanostructure, the OH- distribution and the UOR performance. For conducting a comparative study, a control group with a relatively lower curvature nanostructure was fabricated (labeled as L-NiCoMoCuOxHy) by fine-tuning the coordination co-electrodeposition behavior (SEM images of Figure 3a, b and detailed in Supplementary Figure S17). Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) spectra in Figure 3c presents that NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> has a higher surficial potential distribution than L-NiCoMoCuOxHy, indicating that high-curvature strengthens the charge accumulation of the electrode. To deeply reveal the underlying influences of the structural characteristics on the interfacial charge/ion distribution states, an isometric model with reference to catalysts morphology were constructed to simulate electrochemical modules (detailed in Experience section). In the current distribution comparison (Supplementary Figure S18a), the 3D model with high-curvature characteristics (equivalent to NiCoMoCuOxHy) has a relatively uniformity of the current distribution than low-curvature model (equivalent to L-NiCoMoCuOxHy), implying a more desirable state that facilitates mass

transfer. Next, the as-constructed 2D models with different curvature were employed to simulate the linear relationship between the interfacial position, the electric field strength, and the OH- concentration. The high-curvature model exhibits a relative stronger electric field distribution (Figure 3d), which also represents a more charge accumulation state that is consistent with the electric potential stimulations (Supplementary Figure S18b) and SKPT analyses. Further linear simulation results in Figure 3e exhibit that the high-curvature group experiences a faster electric field intensity promotion with the operating potential rise, and corresponded to a linear OH- concentration increases in electric double layer (EDL), which is about 2 times higher than the low curvature group (0.035 vs. 0.068 mmol cm-3 at 0.4 V, and 0.115 vs. 0.056 mmol cm-3 at 0.6 V). All these discussions demonstrate the interfacial OHion enrichment of high-curvature NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> (diagram in Figure 3f). Impressively, as determined by polarization curves comparison (with or without ECSA normalization) in Figure 3g and Supplementary Figure S19, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> exhibits better UOR activity than L-NiCoMoCuOxHy. Previous work[4] has demonstrated that OHions directly participate in the electrogeneration of (oxy)hydroxide active species in the series UOR processes, and the dehydrogenation and oxidation of urea molecules occur spontaneously through the bridged PCET process. We further conducted a periodic chronoamperometry measurement (refer to the Wang's previous work[4]) to determine the nanostructure-induced change in OHdistribution and the spontaneity of urea decomposition behavior. As shown in Figure 3h, two samples participate under the same electro-oxidation potential (1.48 V) in 1 M KOH electrolyte (stage 1). Clearly, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> with high-curvature exhibits a higher current

density and reach steady state faster, which represents an accelerated (oxy)hydroxides generation that induced by enriched OHion. To study the spontaneity of the reaction, the activated samples were transfer into new solution (1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea and 1 M KOH, respectively), and laid under the open circuit potential (during the stage 2). Afterwards, in stage 3, sample in the solution without urea exhibits an obvious negative current under the potential (1.18 V), which represents the electro-reduction behavior of high-valence nickel-based species. No significant reduction current signal can be detected in urea solution, which indicates that the active -OOH is consumed to sequester electrons and protons from urea spontaneously. All the analyses prove that the regnant factor of structure-induced OHredistribution contributes to catalytic performance.

It is believed that the accelerated PCET kinetics determines the considerable UOR performance of NiCoMoCuOxHy, while the interfacial OH- enrichment is presumed to be the promotor of PCET. To prove this hypothesis and deeply elucidate the correlation between UOR performance and interfical OHion distribution, we then constructed an electrolyte-electrode interface system with different OH- concentrations for electrochemical investigation, namely exfoliating NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> loading on glassy carbon electrodes to stablize the electric double layer (EDL) state (detailed schematic in Figure 4a). Cycle voltammetry (CV) measurement was carried out under Faraday potential interval. As shown in Figure S20, both curves have a typical nickel redox reversible process in alkaline media without urea. Under the high OH- concentration condition, the oxidation peak delivers the current density of 2.32 mA cm-2 at a relatively lower potential of 1.37 V, which is 1.3 times

higher than that of low OH- concentration condition. After adding 0.33 M urea, the following polarization curves in Figure 4b indicate that UOR activity is better under high OHconcentration condition, implying that the increase of interfacial OH- concentration is energetically preferable for electrochemical oxidation and facilitates UOR. To investigate the dynamic electrode-electrolyte interfacial states during UOR, operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement was then employed (Supplementary Figure S21). The corresponding Bode curves in Figure 4c present that with the increase of operating potential, a characteristic peak centered at about 0.1 Hz occurs, and shifts to high frequencies and lower phase degrees as the operating potential increases throughout the whole potential range. Both two electrolytes with different alkalinity exhibit better electronic conductivity and faster charge transfer capacity. Although there are no obvious two electrochemical processes that can be attributed to the overlapping effect in the nickel-based catalyst, lower phase degree in alkaline urea media with high OH- concentration reveals that an increased OH- concentration enables accelerated charge-mass transfer at the high frequency region and simultaneous PCET processes at the low frequency region [9c] .

Next, in-situ electrochemistry Raman spectra was collected to deeply understand the electrochemical dehydrogenation processes in alkaline media with different OHconcentrations. In Supplementary Figure S22, two groups with no urea added exhibit double peaks at 400-600 cm-1 , were identified with the Ni-O characteristic bonding of NiOx(OH)y, respectively, demonstrating the formation of active (oxy)hydroxides species that is consistent with the above analyses [5f, 17]. The more advanced vibrational responses and relatively

greater vibrational intensities seen in the high OH- concentration group with increasing operating potential imply a sufficient accumulation of (oxy)hydroxide species. Critically, it can be observed that after adding 0.33 M urea (Figure 4d-e and Supplementary Figure S22), although the strength of Ni-O is greatly reduced during the reaction, an intensive response still occurrs on the high OH- concentration group, indicating that sufficient nickel-based (oxy)hydroxide species on standby to ensure rapid participation in the urea-involved PCET processes. Meanwhile, in alkaline urea media under an operating potential of 1.45 V vs RHE, time-resolved in-situ Raman spectra in Figure 4f also monitors a broad peak located at 1314 cm-1 , which attributes to the NH-CO-NH and N-CO-N characteristic vibration, as well as C=O characteristic vibration located at 2160 cm-1 [2b]. Specifically, high OH- concentration facilities elongated vibration that continued over time, and the easily identifiable CO<sup>3</sup> 2- vibration assigned at 1420 cm-1 , further proves that the accelerated PCET kinetics promotes nucleophilic urea dehydrogenation during UOR. An in-situ electrochemistry mass spectrometry was also conducted to analyze reaction pathways by tracking product content. As displayed in Figure 4g, after applying a working potential of 1.45 V, both N<sup>2</sup> and CO<sup>2</sup> generated in a fast response are the main products [4]. It should be noted that the rate of product generation is significantly accelerated after switching the alkaline urea electrolyte from low OH- concentration to high OH- concentration. All the above discussions jointly clarify the interfacial OH- concentration can be recognized as a key character for determining PCET kinetics, for which the high concentration alkaline condition facilitates dehydrogenation behavior to assist subsquent N-N coupling and carbon oxide formation. In conclusion, the key

influence between the nanostructure characteristics and the UOR performane is deciphered, and we herein propose a structure-induced PCET acceleration mechanism, that is, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> with high-curvature feature strengthens the electric field distribution and induces surficial OH- enrichment, which continuously stimulates the electrochemical regeneration of the (oxy)hydroxide species to participate in the PCET processes, thereby facilitating the UOR (Figure 4h).

As a promising alternative anodic reaction with thermodynamic advantages, the UOR coupled with cathodic reaction of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is to realize sustainable H<sup>2</sup> production. As shown in Figure S23a, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> shows superior alkaline HER activity with an overpotential of 31 and 241 mV at the current density of 10 and 500 mA cm-2 , respectively, comparable to Pt-C and drastically better than NiCoMoCu-pre (Ƞ <sup>500</sup>= 315 mV), NiOxH<sup>y</sup> (Ƞ <sup>10</sup>= 157 mV). The corresponding Tafel slopes in Supplementary Figure S23b demonstrate that NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> (36.1 mV dec-1 ) undergoes the typical Volmer-Heyrovsky path, which exhibits a promoted electrocatalytic HER kinetics than NiCoMoCu-pre of 47.9 mV dec-1 and NiOxH<sup>y</sup> of 102.3 mV dec-1 . By virtue of the bifunctional performance, a symmetrical electrolysis cell was constructed by using self-supported NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> as both cathode and anode (Figure 5a). As expected, the NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> ǀǀ NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> couple exhibits remarkable alkaline urea electrolysis performance, only requires 1.50 V to deliver 100 mA cm-2 , which is much smaller than that of the alkaline water electrolysis without adding urea,

demonstrating that substituting OER with UOR is feasible for energy-saving H<sup>2</sup> generation (Figure 5b). At the same time, the performance advantages of this couple are also prominent in many representative studies (Figure 5c and Supplementary Table S4). The H<sup>2</sup> generation Faradic efficiency measured by gas chromatography and the calculated results is approximately 98.5 %, and simultaneous binding of LSV measurements in different media with and without urea, together prove the high reaction selectivity (Supplementary Figure S24a, b). A self-constructed solar-powered system was employed to drive the urea electrolysis (Supplementary Movie S1 and Figure S24c), illustrating the potential for intermittent storage (from renewable solar energy to hydrogen energy). To implement the concept of industrialization, we constructed a flow electrolysis cell system, with NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> placed on both sides of the anion exchange membrane (detailed illustration in Figure 5d and Figure S25). The operating potential under gradient current density is recorded synchronously in Fig. 5e that the as-constructed UOR system has excellent performance superior to the OER system, with 1.39, 1.51, 1.61 and 2.08 V to reach 10, 50, 100 and 500 mA cm-2 (without IR compensation), verifying the great practical promising of energy-saving electrolysis toward H<sup>2</sup> production (Movie S2). The durable property was elucidated by chronoamperometric test under 100 and 500 mA cm-2 in Figure 5f. It can be seen that there is no obvious attenuation after maintaining operation for 48h.

Considering that CO2, as the core product of urea degradation, can participate in the

# WILEY-VCH

1613628, 2023, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiely.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202302151 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

carbon-based conversion cycle, a flowed electrolyzer was fabricated, for which realizes the value-added C<sub>2</sub>+\_products generation. The high-selectivity candidate of Cu nanowires as cathodic electrocatalyst for CO2RR, and NiCoMoCuOxHv as anodic electrocatalyst was integrated (detailed information in Supplementary Figure S26). In order to comparatively study the effect of the anodic thermodynamic properties on the overall electrolysis performance, 1 M KOH media with or without 0.33 M urea was adopted. LSV curves of electrolyzers operated in CO<sub>2</sub>-saturated environment (Figure S27a) exhibit increment in current density and decrement in onset potential than that of in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated environment. verifying the CO<sub>2</sub>RR occurred effectively. Subsequently, the conversion of CO<sub>2</sub> electroreduction to high-valued ethylene was estimated using GC measurement. In Figure **S27b**, the FE of the urea-assisted system for C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> production is 55 % under -0.8 V. significantly higher than the urea-free system of 48.8 %, indicating a higher selectivity for the C<sub>2</sub><sup>+</sup> product owing to the UOR activation. The calculated partial current density results in Supplementary Figure S27c, d also display a higher jC<sub>2</sub>+ of the urea-assisted system under all around operating voltage, further proving its high current efficiency. A durability plot of this couple was carried out in Supplementary Fig. S27e. Under the current density of 150 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the Faradaic efficiency is stable at the level of 70%, verifying the considerable long-term performance.

Conclusions

In summary, a novel electrocatalyst of NiCoMoCuOxHywith dendritic nanostructure was designed and fabricated. An appropriate coordinate configuration by heterometallic synergy enables efficient both electrochemical dehydrogenation and urea nucleophilic oxidation, resulting in remarkable intrinsic activity. Importantly, comprehensive characterizations and simulations illustrate the positive impact of the optimized OH- distribution in the electrolyte-electrode microenvironment toward UOR process. With the interfacial modulation induced by high-curvature structure, the OH- enrichment effect is projected into NiCoMoCuOxHy, which facilitates PCET to promote efficient UOR proceeding. Impressively, UOR catalyzed by NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> is coupled with value-added cathodic reaction of HER and CO2RR, respectively, enables efficient overall electrolysis, highlighting the promising future for the UOR-assisted industrial application.

## Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22278097), Natural Science Foundation of Heilongjiang Province (YQ2021B004), Open

Project of State Key Laboratory of Urban Water Resource and Environment (Grant No QA202138), and the Australian Research Council (DP200100365). The numerical calculations in this work have been done on Hefei advanced computing center. The authors would like to thank Shiyanjia Lab (www.shiyanjia.com) for the XPS measurement.

Received: ((will be filled in by the editorial staff))

Revised: ((will be filled in by the editorial staff))

Published online: ((will be filled in by the editorial staff))

## References

[1] a)S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, Nat. Energy 2021, 6, 904; b)B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, Small 2020, 16, e1906133; c)W. Xu, H. Zhang, G. Li, Z. Wu, Sci. Rep. 2014, 4, 5863; d)X. F. Lu, S. L. Zhang, W. L. Sim, S. Gao, X. W. D. Lou, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl .2021, 60, 22885; e)L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2021, 60, 10577. f)R. Li, Y. Li, P. Yang, P. Ren, D. Wang, X. Lu, R. Xu, Y. Li, J. Xue, J. Zhang, M. An, J. Ma, B. Wang, H. Liu, S. Dou, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2022, 318, 121834. g) X. Lu, H. Xu, P. Yang, L. Xiao, Y. Li, J. Ma, R. Li, L. Liu, A. Liu, V. Kondratiev, O. Levin, J. Zhang, M. An, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2022, 313, 121454.

- [2] a)J. Li, J. Li, T. Liu, L. Chen, Y. Li, H. Wang, X. Chen, M. Gong, Z. P. Liu, X. Yang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2021, 60, 26656; b)Z. Ji, Y. Song, S. Zhao, Y. Li, J. Liu, W. Hu, ACS Catal. 2021, 12, 569. b) R. Li, Q. Li, L. Xiao, X. Bai, S. Ji, J. Zhang, M. An, P. Yang, Mater. Today Energy 2021, 22, 100882.
- [3] R.-Q. Li, Q. Liu, Y. Zhou, M. Lu, J. Hou, K. Qu, Y. Zhu, O. Fontaine, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 4159.
- [4] W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2021, 60, 7297.
- [5] a)J. Woo, B. C. Moon, U. Lee, H.-S. Oh, K. H. Chae, Y. Jun, B. K. Min, D. K. Lee, ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 4078; b)S. Li, R. Ma, J. Hu, Z. Li, L. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Lu, G. E. Sterbinsky, S. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Liu, D. Liu, J. Wang, Nat. Commun. 2022, 13, 2916; c)R. E. Warburton, A. V. Soudackov, S. Hammes-Schiffer, Chem. Rev. 2022, 122, 10599; d)W. Yang, X. Yang, C. Hou, B. Li, H. Gao, J. Lin, X. Luo, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2019, 259; e)L. Hou, Y. Shi, C. Wu, Y. Zhang, Y. Ma, X. Sun, J. Sun, X. Zhang, C. Yuan, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28; f)L. Fan, Y. Ji, G. Wang, J. Chen, K. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Wen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 7224.
- [6] a)J. Li, S. Wang, S. Sun, X. Wu, B. Zhang, L. Feng, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 9308; b)G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, C. Tian, H. Fu, Small Struct. 2021, 2, 2100095; c)A. Allagui, S. Sarfraz, E. A. Baranova, Electrochim. Acta 2013, 110, 253; d)B. Zhou, Y. Li, Y. Zou,

- W. Chen, W. Zhou, M. Song, Y. Wu, Y. Lu, J. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2021, 60, 22908.
- [7] a)J. Wu, W. Chen, H. Zheng, M. Chen, J. Xia, X. Qian, J. Alloys Compd. 2023, 945; b)L. Wang, M. D. Hossain, Y. Du, S. A. Chambers, Nano Today 2022, 47, 101697; c)F. McKay, Y. Fang, O. Kizilkaya, P. Singh, D. D. Johnson, A. Roy, D. P. Young, P. T. Sprunger, J. C. Flake, W. A. Shelton, Y. Xu, J. Phys. Chem. C Nanomater. Interfaces 2021, 125, 17008; d)M. Cui, C. Yang, B. Li, Q. Dong, M. Wu, S. Hwang, H. Xie, X. Wang, G. Wang, L. Hu, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 11; e)D. Lai, Q. Kang, F. Gao, Q. Lu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 17913; f)F. N. I. Sari, G. Frenel, A. C. Lee, Y.-J. Huang, Y.-H. Su, J.-M. Ting, J. Mater. Chem. A 2023, 11, 2985.
- [8] a)R. Shi, J. Guo, X. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, Z. Han, Y. Zhao, L. Shang, C. Zhou, L. Jiang, T. Zhang, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 3028; b)X. Shan, J. Liu, H. Mu, Y. Xiao, B. Mei, W. Liu, G. Lin, Z. Jiang, L. Wen, L. Jiang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2020, 59, 1659; c)P. Liu, B. Chen, C. Liang, W. Yao, Y. Cui, S. Hu, P. Zou, H. Zhang, H. J. Fan, C. Yang, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, e2007377; d)F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 4182; e)M. Liu, Y. Pang, B. Zhang, P. De Luna, O. Voznyy, J. Xu, X. Zheng, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, C. Cao, F. P. de Arquer, T. S. Safaei, A. Mepham, A. Klinkova, E. Kumacheva, T. Filleter, D. Sinton, S. O. Kelley, E. H. Sargent, Nature 2016, 537, 382.

- [9] a)S. Chakrabarty, I. Offen-Polak, T. Y. Burshtein, E. M. Farber, L. Kornblum, D. Eisenberg, J.Solid State Electrochem. 2020, 25, 159; b)B. J. Taitt, D.-H. Nam, K.-S. Choi, ACS Catal. 2018, 9, 660; c)N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2019, 58, 15895; d)V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, Electrochim. Acta 2012, 81, 292.
- [10] C. Liang, P. Zou, A. Nairan, Y. Zhang, J. Liu, K. Liu, S. Hu, F. Kang, H. J. Fan, C. Yang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2020, 13, 86.
- [11] a)L. Zhang, W. Cai, N. Bao, H. Yang, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, e2110511; b)L. Zhang, W. Cai, N. Bao, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, e2100745.
- [12] a)T. G. Ritter, A. H. Phakatkar, M. G. Rasul, M. T. Saray, L. V. Sorokina, T. Shokuhfar, J. M. Gonçalves, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 2022, 3, 100847; b)Y. Li, X. Tan, R. K. Hocking, X. Bo, H. Ren, B. Johannessen, S. C. Smith, C. Zhao, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 2720; c)H. Liu, X. Li, L. Chen, X. Zhu, P. Dong, M. O. L. Chee, M. Ye, Y. Guo, J. Shen, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 32, 2107308.
- [13] R. Li, H. Xu, P. Yang, D. Wang, Y. Li, L. Xiao, X. Lu, B. Wang, J. Zhang, M. An, Nanomicro. Lett. 2021, 13, 120.
- [14] Y. Yuan, S. Adimi, X. Guo, T. Thomas, Y. Zhu, H. Guo, G. S. Priyanga, P. Yoo, J. Wang, J. Chen, P. Liao, J. P. Attfield, M. Yang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2020, 59, 18036.

- [15] B. Wang, K. Zhao, Z. Yu, C. Sun, Z. Wang, N. Feng, L. Mai, Y. Wang, Y. Xia, Energy Environ. Sci. 2020, 13, 2200.
- [16] H. Jiang, Z. Hou, Y. Luo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2017, 56, 15617.
- [17] a)X. Liu, J. Meng, K. Ni, R. Guo, F. Xia, J. Xie, X. Li, B. Wen, P. Wu, M. Li, J. Wu, X. Wu, L. Mai, D. Zhao, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci. 2020, 1, 100241; b)M. Han, C. Wang, J. Zhong, J. Han, N. Wang, A. Seifitokaldani, Y. Yu, Y. Liu, X. Sun, A. Vomiero, H. Liang, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2022, 301, 120764.

Figure 1 a Schematic illustration of PCET on nickel-based (oxy)hydroxide model. b Integrated COPH results of Ni-O bonding of NiCoMoCu and Ni (oxy)hydroxide models, respectively. c Calculated energy of urea dehydrogenation behavior. d SEM images of NiCoMoCuOxHy. Scale bar, 2 µm (insets: magnified images). e, f SAED and TEM images of NiCoMoCuOxHy. g HRTEM image of the white area in f. h the corresponded HAADF-STEM images and

elemental mappings. i High-revolution XPS spectra of NiCoMoCu-pre and NiCoMoCuOxHy. j, k Ni K-edge XANES spectra and corresponding FT-EXAFS spectra for Ni foil, NiO, NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> and NiOxHy, respectively.

Figure 2 a Polarization curves of NiCoMoCuOxHyin different media. b, c UOR polarization curves of NiCoMoCuOxHy, NiOxH<sup>y</sup> and NF (inset: corresponding Tafel slopes comparison

between NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> and NiOxHy). d Integrated electrochemical performance radar chart

e Chronopotentiometric curves at different current densities (10-200 mA cm-2 ) of NiCoMoCuOxHy. f-h Reaction orders calculated for different OH- and urea.

Figure 3 a, b SEM images and c SKPT spectrum of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> and L-NiCoMoCuOxHy, respectively. d Comparison of electric field distributions with different curvatures. e The liner relationship between the OH- concentration and electric field strength versus potential. f

Schametic illustration of structure-induced OH- enrichment. g LSV comparison and h periodic chronocurrent measurement of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> and L-NiCoMoCuOxHy.

Figure 4 a Schematic illustration of NiCoMoCuOxHyloaded on GC electrode for construction of electrode-electrolyte interface with steady polarization model. b UOR polarization curves

with different OH- concentration. c Integrated Bode spectra under UOR operating condition. d, e In-situ Roman intensity projection map of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> under LSV operating conditions in alkaline urea solution with different OH- concentration. f, g In-situ Roman spectra and in-situ electrochemical mass spectrometry of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> under potentiostatic condition. h Schematic illustration of the structure-induced PCET kinetics

acceleration mechanism for efficient UOR.

Figure 5 a Schematic illustration of membrane-free urea electrolysis. b Polarization curves in 1 M KOH with or without 0.33 M urea. c Comparison with recent representative work. d Schematic illustration of alkaline exchange membrane urea electrolysis system. e

Voltage-current correlation towards urea electrolysis in 1 M KOH with or without 0.33 M urea.

f Chronoamperometric curves of urea electrolysis at 100 and 500 mA cm-2 , respectively.

The table of contents entry should be 50−60 words long, and the first phrase should be bold.

A novel quaternary (oxy)hydroxide-based electrocatalyst of NiCoMoCuOxH<sup>y</sup> is designed and fabricated via a novel gas-template electrodeposition followed by electrochemical activation processes. Comprehensive studies demonstrate that the synergistic heteroatoms co-doping effects and the structure-induced interfacial microenvironment optimization jointly accelerate the alkaline PCET kinetics, so as to achieve the catalytic UOR performance breakthrough.

Nickel-based (oxy)hydroxides; Urea oxidation reaction; Proton-coupled electron transfer; Electrode-electrolyte interfacial environment; High-efficiency renewable electrolysis.

Title ((no stars))

Key roles of interfacial OHion distribution on proton coupled electron transfer kinetics toward urea oxidation reaction

ToC figure ((Please choose one size: 55 mm broad × 50 mm high or 110 mm broad × 20 mm high. Please do not use any other dimensions))