---
source: Li 等 - 2024 - Sulfur‐Vacancy Engineering Accelerates Rapid Surface Reconstruction in Ni‐Co Bimetal Sulfide Nanoshe.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 54.402s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:08:24.052792Z
---

# **Sulfur-Vacancy Engineering Accelerates Rapid Surface Reconstruction in Ni-Co Bimetal Sulfide Nanosheet for Urea Oxidation Electrocatalysis**

*Haoyuan Li, Yujuan Pu,\* Wenhao Li, Zitong Yan, Ruojing Deng, Fanyue Shi, Chenhao Zhao, Youkui Zhang,\* and Tao Duan*

**Developing a highly efficient catalyst for electrocatalytic urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is not only beneficial for the degradation of urea pollutants in wastewater but also provides a benign route for hydrogen production. Herein, a sulfur-vacancy (Sv) engineering is proposed to accelerate the formation of metal (oxy)hydroxide on the surface of Ni-Co bimetal sulfide nanosheet arrays on nickel foam (Sv-CoNiS@NF) for boosting the urea oxidation electrocatalysis. As a result, the obtained Sv-CoNiS@NF demonstrates an outstanding electrocatalytic UOR performance, which requires a low potential of only 1.397 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode to achieve the current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The ex situ Raman spectra and density functional theory calculations reveal the key roles of the Sv site and Co9S8 in promoting the electrocatalytic UOR performance. This work provides a new strategy for accelerating the transformation of electrocatalysts to active metallic (oxy)hydroxide for urea electrolysis via engineering the surface vacancies.**

#### **1. Introduction**

The replacement of oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in electrochemical water splitting with urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is a feasible choice to simultaneously achieve hydrogen (H2) production and urea degradation in wastewater.[\[1–3\]](#page-7-0) The UOR in alkaline media is a complicated six-electron transfer process, which requires a higher overpotential than OER.[\[4,5\]](#page-7-0) Even so, the thermodynamic equilibrium potential of urea electrolysis is only 0.37 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE),[\[6,7\]](#page-7-0)

H. Li, W. Li, Z. Yan, R. Deng, F. Shi, C. Zhao, Y. Zhang, T. Duan State Key Laboratory of Environment-Friendly Energy Materials School of Nuclear Science and Technology Southwest University of Science and Technology Mianyang 621010, China E-mail: [zyk224@mail.ustc.edu.cn](mailto:zyk224@mail.ustc.edu.cn) Y. Pu

College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Chongqing University Chongqing 401331, China

E-mail: [yujuanpu@stu.cqu.edu.cn](mailto:yujuanpu@stu.cqu.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202403311>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202403311**

which is much lower than water electrolysis required potential (1.23 V vs RHE),[\[8\]](#page-8-0) the overall working potential for UOR remains lower than OER.[\[9\]](#page-8-0) So far, noblemetal (Pt, Ir, and Ru, etc.)-based materials have been reported for effectively catalyzing UOR, but the high cost limits their large-scale application.[\[10,11\]](#page-8-0) Recently, non-noble transition-metal (Co, Ni, Fe, etc.)-based materials with adjustable electronic structure and low-cost, have attracted extensive attention and been developed as promising electrocatalysts for UOR in alkaline media.[\[5,12,13\]](#page-7-0) Specifically, most of the transition metal-based materials undergo surface reconstruction during UOR to form metallic oxyhydroxide (MOOH) species, which was considered as the most active species during electrochemical oxidation reaction.[\[14,15\]](#page-8-0) It is

therefore of high significance to rationally synthesize superior electrocatalysts with abundant MOOH species for optimizing the UOR catalytic performance.

Till now, two main strategies, including direct synthesizing of bulk MOOH and in-situ transformation of the electrocatalysts into MOOH during the UOR process, are widely employed to fabricate the MOOH species.[\[16–18\]](#page-8-0) Among them, the directly synthesized MOOH materials with relatively limited electric conductivity and coordination-saturated MO6 octahedrons,[\[19](#page-8-0)] which may impede the electrocatalytic UOR performance. In contrast, electrochemical in-situ conversion was the proposed method for the formation of MOOH species on the near-surface of transition metal-based electrocatalysts.[\[20–22\]](#page-8-0) For example, the active NiOOH species could be electrochemically synthesized on Ruanchored Ni(OH)2 and the electrochemical process of proton deintercalation from the Ni(OH)2 lattice to form NiOOH mainly determined the reaction rate for UOR.[\[23\]](#page-8-0) Besides, it is well known that the Ni and/or Co -based chalcogenides exhibit intrinsic metallic properties because of metal-metal bonds throughout their structure, which exhibit excellent electrical conductivity and induce the surface reconstruction to form (oxy)hydroxides when exposed to oxidation potentials.[\[20,24\]](#page-8-0) Additionally, the sulfur vacancy (Sv) in chalcogenides can significantly improve the catalytic activity of catalysts by regulating the local electronic structure.[\[25,26\]](#page-8-0) However, commonly works attempt to seek highperformance metal chalcogenides as precatalysts for UOR, but

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthesis procedure of Sv-CoNiS@NF.

neglect how sulfur species in metal chalcogenides affect surface reconstruction.

In this work, Sv was introduced in heterogeneous Ni-Co bimetal sulfide (CoNiS) nanosheet arrays on nickel foam (NF) skeleton (marked as Sv-CoNiS@NF) to accelerate the formation of metal hydroxide (MOH) and oxyhydroxide (MOOH) species for electrocatalytic UOR. The abundant Sv combining the unique heterointerface structure in the CoNiS nanosheet not only provides reaction sites but also regulates the electron structure for boosting the electrocatalytic UOR performance. The optimized Sv-CoNiS@NF exhibited remarkable efficiency for the UOR, which demands a low voltage of only 1.397 V versus RHE to achieve the current density () of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (100) in an electrolyte containing 1 m KOH and 0.33 m urea, comparable with other reported electrocatalysts. The ex situ Raman spectroscopy characterization revealed that the Sv can accelerate the structure reconstruction of Sv-CoNiS@NF to form MOH and MOOH species at a relatively low voltage. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations further indicated that the Co9S8 can modulate the electron structure of Sv-CoNiS@NF to promote the adsorption of urea molecule on the Ni-Ni sites around the Sv site, which is beneficial for further UOR. This work provides a deep understanding for the reconstruction of electrocatalysts to real active species during UOR and offers new insight for the design of highly active electrocatalysts.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Structural Characterizations**

In this work, the Sv-CoNiS@NF composite was synthesized via a modified electrodeposition method followed with an annealing treatment as depicted in Scheme 1. In a typical procedure, the Co-NiS nanosheet arrays were first prepared on NF (denoted as Co-NiS@NF) by a facile electrodeposition reaction according to the previously reported literature.[\[27\]](#page-8-0) As revealed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images, the bare NF skeleton was uniformly and densely covered with nanosheet arrays after the electrodeposition process (Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information). The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image further revealed the nanosheet structure of CoNiS (Figure S3a, Supporting Information). In the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of CoNiS@NF (Figure S3b,c, Supporting Information), the interplanar spacing of 0.191 and 0.181 nm can be well-indexed to the (511) and (211) crystal plane of Co9S8 and N3S2, respectively. In addition, the corresponding energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) mapping images revealed that the Ni, S, and Co elements were uniformly dispersed in the CoNiS nanosheet (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Subsequently, the as-obtained Co-NiS@NF was subjected to an annealing treatment at 350 °C in H2/Ar gas flow for 120 min to form Sv. [\[28\]](#page-8-0) As revealed by SEM and TEM images (**Figure 1**[a–d\)](#page-2-0), the morphology of asobtained Sv-CoNiS@NF well preserved the nanosheet structure. The HRTEM images presented the interplanar spacing of 0.176 and 0.204 nm, which correspond to the (440) and (202) plane of Co9S8 and Ni3S2 (Figure [1e,f\)](#page-2-0), respectively, forming a heterointerface structure (marked by yellow dash line in Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0). The spherical aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF-STEM) images further revealed that the Sv-CoNiS@NF exhibited the typical sulfur vacancies sites where some small gray dots were disappeared (highlighted as red circles in Figure S5, Supporting Information). The EDS mapping results also revealed the uniform distribution of the Ni, S, and Co elements across the whole Sv-CoNiS@NF (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0). Besides, based on the EDS results, the atomic ratio of S in Sv-CoNiS@NF (1.59%) was smaller than that of CoNiS@NF (2.15%), indicating the decrease of S amount during the formation of Sv in Sv-CoNiS@NF (Table S1, Supporting Information).[\[29\]](#page-8-0)

To analyze the crystal structure of the as-prepared samples, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded. In the XRD pattern of CoNiS@NF, only weak Ni3S2 (PDF#44-1418) phase can be detected (Figure S6, Supporting Information), indicating that the Ni3S2 and other metal (nickel and cobalt) sulfides are low crystallinity or amorphous.[\[30\]](#page-8-0) After annealing the CoNiS@NF in H2/Ar atmosphere to obtain the Sv-CoNiS@NF (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0), the

16138289, 2024, 42, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202403311 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common. Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use and the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Creative Common. Licenses are governed to the applicable Creative Creative Crea

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. a-c) SEM, d) TEM, and e,f) HRTEM images of  $S_v$ -CoNiS@NF. g) EDS mapping images of Co, Ni, and S elements of  $S_v$ -CoNiS@NF.

diffraction peaks of  $Ni_3S_2$  (PDF#44-1418) became sharper and the  $Co_9S_8$  (PDF#02-1459) phase appeared. The strong diffraction peaks marked by "\*" in the XRD patterns of CoNiS@NF and  $S_v$ -CoNiS@NF could be signed to the metallic Ni (PDF#04-0850), which may originate from the NF substrate. Besides, the Raman spectra also revealed the formation of metal sulfide (Figure 2b). In the Raman spectra of CoNiS@NF and  $S_v$ -CoNiS@NF, a set of peaks located in the region below 400 cm $^{-1}$  could be assigned to the typical Ni-S vibrations,[ $^{31-33}$ ] while another series of peaks above 400 cm $^{-1}$  could be assigned to the typical CoS vibrations.[ $^{34.35}$ ] Furthermore, the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra of the  $S_v$ -CoNiS@NF presented an enhanced signal at g=2.003 compared to CoNiS@NF, suggesting the existence of more unpaired electrons caused by the  $S_v$  (Figure S7, Supporting Information).

To delve deeper into the surface chemical composition of the as-prepared CoNiS@NF and S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF, an X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed. As illustrated in Figure 2c, the survey spectra indicated the existence of Ni, S, and Co elements in both CoNiS@NF and S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF, in accordance with the findings from the EDS elemental mapping. As depicted in Figure 2d, the high-resolution Co 2p XPS spec-

trum could be deconvoluted with two spin-orbit doublets and two shakeup satellite (Sat.) peaks. In the case of CoNiS@NF, the binding energy (BE) approximately at 781.0 and 796.7 eV were assigned to Co<sup>3+</sup>, whereas those at 782.8 and 798.1 eV were assigned to Co<sup>2+</sup>.<sup>[36]</sup> After the formation of S<sub>v</sub> in S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF, new peaks assigned to Co<sup>0</sup> were detected at 778.8 and 794.4 eV,<sup>[30]</sup> confirming that a part of the surface Co species was reduced by H<sub>2</sub> during the annealing process.<sup>[37]</sup> For the Ni 2p XPS spectra of CoNiS@NF and S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF (Figure 2e), the deconvoluted peaks at 856.1 and 873.7 eV could be assigned to Ni<sup>2+</sup>.[38,39] Similar to the analysis of Co species, the signal for Ni<sup>0</sup> was also detected in the Ni 2p spectrum of S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF. Additionally, the S 2p XPS spectrum of S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF could be deconvoluted into three peaks centered at ≈163, 164, and 168 eV, which were ascribed to the S  $2p_{3/2}$ , S  $2p_{1/2}$  orbitals of metal-sulfur (M—S), and S—O bonds (Figure 2f),[40,41] respectively. Compared with CoNiS@NF, the S  $2p_{3/2}$  and S  $2p_{1/2}$  characteristic peaks for  $S_v$ -CoNiS@NF became stronger and negatively shifted to lower BE, demonstrating the loss of S and the successful formation of S<sub>v</sub> in the S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF.<sup>[25,42]</sup> Besides, the increase of the area share of S  $2p_{1/2}$  in the S<sub>v</sub>-CoNiS@NF also suggested the formation of sulfur vacancies (Table S2, Supporting Information). [43] These XPS

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD pattern of Sv-CoNiS@NF. b) Raman spectra, c) XPS survey, and d–f) high-resolution spectra for Co 2p (d), Ni 2p (e), and S 2p (f) of the CoNiS@NF and Sv-CoNiS@NF.

results demonstrated that the Sv was successfully fabricated in the hierarchically structured Sv-CoNiS@NF.

#### **2.2. UOR Performance**

The electrocatalytic activity of the as-prepared materials for UOR was evaluated in 1 m KOH electrolyte containing 0.33 m urea by a standard three-electrode configuration using Ag/AgCl and graphite rod as the reference electrode and counter electrode, respectively. As shown by the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0), the optimized Sv-CoNiS@NF required a significantly low potential of only 1.397 V versus RHE to reach the <sup>100</sup> in 1 m KOH electrolyte containing 0.33 m urea, which was much smaller than that needed for the OER to reach the <sup>100</sup> (1.690 V vs RHE) in 1 m KOH electrolyte. This result indicated that the oxidation of urea was more conducive to occur on Sv-CoNiS@NF at a low potential than OER. To compare with Sv-CoNiS@NF, the bare NF and CoNiS@NF were also evaluated for electrocatalytic UOR. As shown in Figure [3b,](#page-4-0) the Sv-CoNiS@NF achieved significant UOR activity with the lowest potential of 1.397 V versus RHE to reach 100, while the CoNiS@NF required a higher potential (1.430 V vs RHE) to reach that. This result demonstrated that the Sv significantly promoted the electrocatalytic activity toward UOR. Impressively, the UOR activity of Sv-CoNiS@NF also outperformed most of the existing transition metal-based electrocatalysts (Table S3, Supporting Information). To evaluate the effect of Sv concentration on the UOR performance, the samples obtained with different annealing times and annealed in N2 were also tested (Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information). With annealing times increased from 30 to 120 min, the obtained samples possessed improved catalytic activity for UOR. However, when the annealing time increased to 180 min, the UOR performance was decreased. Besides, the Sv-CoNiS@NF also exhibited a better UOR activity with a small overpotential than that of Sv-NiS@NF (Figure S10, Supporting Information), indicating that the introduction of Co9S8 in Sv-CoNiS@NF is critical to enhance electrocatalytic UOR performance. These results suggested that the moderate Sv concentration and Co9S8 species in Sv-CoNiS@NF are beneficial for improving the activity of electrocatalytic UOR.

To understand the UOR kinetics of different samples, the Tafel slopes and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) were determined. The Tafel slope of Sv-CoNiS@NF was 28.4 mV dec‒<sup>1</sup> (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0), which was lower than that of bare NF (65.6 mV dec‒1) and CoNiS@NF (32.2 mV dec‒1). Besides, the Sv-CoNiS@NF exhibited a much lower charge transfer resistance than other samples as confirmed by the smallest Nyquist semicircle diameter (Figure S11, Supporting Information), implying its higher conductivity for electron transfer. Additionally, to evaluate the electrochemical surface areas (ECSA) of samples, the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) was calculated by the cyclic voltammetry method. The calculated Cdl for Sv-CoNiS@NF was 22.7 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S12, Supporting Information), significantly larger than those of the bare NF (3.81 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and CoNiS@NF (20.99 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), indicating the larger ECSA was exposed in Sv-CoNiS@NF compared to the control samples. Furthermore, the stability of Sv-CoNiS@NF for the UOR was examined by holding at a constant

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic UOR performances on Sv-CoNiS@NF and control samples. a) LSV curves for the OER and UOR on Sv-CoNiS@NF were recorded in 1 m KOH with and without 0.33 m urea. b) LSV curves for UOR of different samples in 1 m KOH containing 0.33 m urea and c) the corresponding Tafel plots. d) Chronoamperometric response of Sv-CoNiS@NF for UOR. e) The LSV and f) TOF curves for the HER of different samples in 1 m KOH containing 0.33 m urea. g) LSV curves for the urea electrolysis using Sv-CoNiS@NF as both the anode and cathode. h) Chronoamperometric response of Sv-CoNiS@NF for urea electrolysis.

potential of 1.335 V versus RHE. The Sv-CoNiS@NF exhibited robust stability for UOR at a of ≈15 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> within continuous operation for 10 h (Figure 3d).

The Sv-CoNiS@NF was also performed in 1 m KOH electrolyte to evaluate the electrocatalytic performance toward HER. As shown by the LSV curves in Figure 3e, in terms of reaching the of 50 mA cm‒2, the Sv-CoNiS@NF only required −0.229 V versus RHE, significantly lower than that of bare NF (−0.432 V vs RHE) and CoNiS@NF (−0.310 V vs RHE). Moreover, the turnover frequency (TOF) value of Sv-CoNiS@NF at the overpotential of 200 mV was 5.38 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure 3f; Figure S13, Supporting Information), which was higher than that of CoNiS@NF (4.13 s<sup>−</sup>1), indicating the superior inherently HER catalytic activity of Sv-CoNiS@NF. Meanwhile, the Faraday efficiency over Sv-CoNiS@NF was ≈96.7% (Figure S14, Supporting Information), which was obtained from online gas chromatography measurement and theoretical calculation.[\[44\]](#page-8-0)

Based on the excellent catalytic activity for both UOR and HER, a two-electrode system was constructed by using the Sv-CoNiS@NF as both anode and cathode to assess its catalytic ability for urea electrolysis. Impressively, a low potential of only 1.651 V was required for urea electrolysis to achieve of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 3g), which is lower than that required for water electrolysis (1.915 V), proving the higher energy efficiency for urea electrolysis. Moreover, due to the low operating potential needed for UOR, the two-electrode assembled with Sv-CoNiS@NF can be driven by a standard commercial AA battery, which provides a voltage of 1.5 V (Figure S15 and video S1, Supporting Information), highlighting the great potential of Sv-CoNiS@NF for practical applications. Not only that, the two-electrode urea

electrolysis assembled by Sv-CoNiS@NF also demonstrated very good durability (Figure S16, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [3h,](#page-4-0) under a constant applied voltage of 1.335 V, the urea electrolysis maintained a steady current for 60 h, further demonstrating the superior catalytic stability of Sv-CoNiS@NF for UOR.

#### **2.3. Mechanism Discussion**

To gain a thorough insight into the role of Sv in boosting UOR activity, the surface structure and chemical states of Sv-CoNiS@NF after urea electrolysis for 10 h were studied (**Figure [4](#page-6-0)**; Figure S17, Supporting Information). As revealed by the high-resolution Co 2p XPS spectrum, the peak intensity of the Co<sup>0</sup> signal was decreased in Sv-CoNiS@NF after UOR (Figure [4a\)](#page-6-0), implying that partial surface Co species were oxidized to a higher oxidation state during UOR process. Similar results could be found in the high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectrum of Sv-CoNiS@NF after UOR as well (Figure S17, Supporting Information), indicating the oxidation of surface Ni species.[\[32\]](#page-8-0) Besides, the high-resolution S 2p XPS spectrum for Sv-CoNiS@NF after UOR showed that the relative peak intensity of S 2p was decreased and the BE of S 2p was positively shifted (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0), further confirming the electrochemical oxidation of surface S species during UOR.[\[21\]](#page-8-0)

To probe the dynamic process of electrochemical oxidation on the surface of the as-prepared CoNiS@NF and Sv-CoNiS@NF during the electrocatalytic UOR process, ex situ Raman spectra were collected in a potential range from 1.2 to 1.6 V versus RHE with a step size of 0.1 V. Prior to applying the voltage, both the CoNiS@NF and Sv-CoNiS@NF electrodes were immersed in an electrolyte containing 1 m KOH and 0.33 m urea to observe potential surface phase variations. At open circuit potential (OCP), both the CoNiS@NF and Sv-CoNiS@NF manifest no obvious change in comparison with pristine catalysts (Figure [4c,d\)](#page-6-0). Under the applied voltage conditions, the transformation on CoNiS@NF and Sv-CoNiS@NF become distinct. When the voltage of 1.2 V versus RHE was applied, the Raman spectrum of CoNiS@NF exhibited two strong peaks appeared at ≈250 and 350 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which can be assigned to the Ni-N stretching vibration,[\[6\]](#page-7-0) indicating that the urea molecule was adsorbed on the Ni atoms. At a higher voltage of 1.4 V versus RHE, a board peak exhibited at ≈530 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which could be assigned to M(II)─O (M═Ni and Co) in surficial formed defective or disordered MOH (Ni(OH)2 and Co(OH)2) species.[\[32,45\]](#page-8-0) When the voltage was increased to higher than 1.5 V versus RHE, a board peak appeared in the range of 420 to 600 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which could be assigned to the M(III)─O bond in oxyhydroxides centered at ≈470 and 560 cm<sup>−</sup>1, indicating the potentialtriggered formation of MOOH phase, in agreement with the existing literature.[\[46,47\]](#page-8-0) These results implied the structural transformation beginning at the voltage of 1.4 V versus RHE on the surface of CoNiS@NF, and further transferred to MOOH species at higher voltage of over 1.5 V versus RHE.

However, the Sv-CoNiS@NF manifests a different electrochemical reconstruction process in comparison with Co-NiS@NF. As for the Raman spectra of Sv-CoNiS@NF, when a voltage of 1.2 V versus RHE was applied, the peaks of Ni─N stretching vibration and Ni3S2 located in the range of 280 to 360 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> were highlighted. Besides, the well-defined peak centered at ≈530 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponding to M(II)─O in defective or disordered MOH could be observed,[\[32,45\]](#page-8-0) indicating the easier surface self-reconstruction of the Sv-CoNiS@NF than CoNiS@NF at relatively low potential. When the potential was applied at 1.5 V versus RHE, the M(III)─O species corresponding to the MOOH were accumulated on the Sv-CoNiS@NF surface.[\[48\]](#page-8-0) The reconstruction of metal species to higher oxidation states was in agreement with the XPS results. Combined with the above Raman results, it could be concluded that the Sv species in Sv-CoNiS@NF promoted the surface reconstruction to take place at low potential during the UOR process.

In order to verify the possible effect of the Sv engineering and Co9S8 for enhancing the UOR performance of Sv-CoNiS@NF, DFT calculations were applied. Combined with the characterization results and previously reported literatures,[\[30,49,50\]](#page-8-0) the possible models of CoNiS and Sv-CoNiS with surface Sv were constructed (Figure S18, Supporting Information). To evaluate the adsorption ability of urea molecules onto the catalyst surface, which was regarded as a crucial step in UOR,[\[51,52\]](#page-8-0) the adsorption energy of urea molecules (∆Eurea) on the proposed sites (Co and Ni) was theoretically calculated (**Figure 5**[a–d;](#page-7-0) Figure S19, Supporting Information). The theoretical calculation results showed that the neighboring Ni-Ni sites around the Sv site exhibited a more negative ∆Eurea of −2.42 eV than that of Co─Ni (−2.07 eV) and Co─Co (−1.54 eV) around the Sv in Sv-CoNiS (Figure [5e\)](#page-7-0). This result indicates that the urea molecules are thermodynamically trending to be adsorbed on the Ni-Ni sites around the Sv site in Sv-CoNiS@NF, beneficial for improving the UOR reaction kinetics. For comparison, the ∆Eurea on the Ni-Ni sites around the S atom in CoNiS (−2.18 eV) was more positive than that of Sv-CoNiS, indicating that the Sv in CoNiS is beneficial for urea molecule adsorption, thereby improving UOR catalytic activity. Furthermore, the charge density difference of the Sv-CoNiS@NF was also calculated to analyze the possible charge transfer at the interface between the Co9S8 and Ni3S2. The strong interaction between the Co9S8 and Ni3S2 regulates the charge redistribution at the interface in Sv-CoNiS (Figure S20a, Supporting Information), where the electrons were tended to deplete from Ni sites and to accumulate around adjacent Co-S bonds. This would form a local electrophilic region on the Ni site, which is beneficial for the adsorption of electron-donating −NH2 groups in urea molecules.[\[53\]](#page-8-0) After the urea molecule was adsorbed on Sv-CoNiS@NF via the adsorption of the −NH2 group on the Ni─Ni sites around the Sv site, the electron was accumulated around the Ni─N bonds (Figure S20b, Supporting Information), indicating the strong coupling between Ni site and N atom in urea. Taking the DFT calculation results together, it can be proposed that the introduction of Co9S8 has a significant function in tailoring the adsorption strength of the −NH2 in urea molecule on active Ni sites of Sv-CoNiS@NF.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a sulfur vacancy (Sv) engineered CoNiS hybrid nanosheet array supported on nickel foam (denoted as Sv-CoNiS@NF) was designed and synthesized as an electrode for electrocatalytic UOR by facile electrodeposition combined with surface reduction. Based on the experiments, characterization results, and DFT calculations, the rich Sv species can accelerate the surface reconstruction of Sv-CoNiS to form active species.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a,b) XPS spectra for (a) Co 2p and (b) S 2p of the Sv-CoNiS@NF electrode before and after the UOR test. c,d) The ex situ Raman spectra for (c) CoNiS@NF and (d) Sv-CoNiS@NF under varying potential during UOR process.

Besides, the Co9S8 modulated the charge redistribution at the interface between Co9S8 and Ni3S2, resulting in enhanced adsorption of urea molecules on Ni3S2 for further UOR electrocatalysis. Benefiting from the self-standing nanosheet arrays with abundant exposed active sites, the optimized Sv-CoNiS@NF electrode exhibited a high-efficient catalytic activity, requiring a low working voltage of 1.397 V versus RHE to reach <sup>100</sup> for electrocatalytic UOR in an electrolyte containing 1 m KOH and 0.33 m urea. Moreover, the Sv-CoNiS@NF assembled electrolyzer for overall urea electrolysis can be powered by a standard commercial AA battery. This work not only demonstrates the key role of Sv engineering in faster reconstruction of electrocatalysts but also

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Side-view of the optimized models of urea molecule adsorption on a) Co─Co, b) Co─Ni, and c) Ni─Ni sites around the Sv site on the Sv-CoNiS surface and d) Ni─Ni sites on the CoNiS surface, respectively. e) The calculated adsorption energy of the urea molecule on different sites in (a–d).

provides a new strategy for designing and preparing promising electrocatalytic material for UOR.

Science and Technology (20fksy12, 21fksy15). The authors would like to thank Shiyanjia Lab [\(www.shiyanjia.com\)](http://www.shiyanjia.com) for the XPS test.

#### **4. Experimental section**

*Synthesis of CoNiS@NF*: The CoNiS@NF was prepared via one step electrodeposition method. Before synthesis, the commercial NF (1.0 cm × 1.5 cm) was cleaned sequentially with HCl (3 m), deionized water (DIW), and C2H5OH to remove possible impurity and surface oxide layers. The CoNiS@NF was obtained by electrodeposition method using a standard three-electrode system with an electrolyte containing Co(NO3)2·6H2O (5 mm) and CH4N2S (0.375 m). The pretreated NF, carbon rod, and Ag/AgCl were used as the working electrode, counter electrode, and reference electrode, respectively. The electrodeposition was performed on the CHI760e workstation using a cyclic voltammetry (CV) technique in the voltage range from −1.2 to 0.2 V for 60 cycles with a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. Finally, the prepared CoNiS@NF electrode was cleaned with DIW and dried at 40 °C in a vacuum oven.

*Synthesis of Sv-CoNiS@NF*: The Sv-CoNiS@NF was synthesized by annealing the CoNiS@NF in H2/Ar atmosphere (H2 5 vol.%) in a tubular furnace at 350 °C for 120 min with a heating rate of 3 °C min<sup>−</sup>1. The control samples were synthesized via a similar procedure to Sv-CoNiS/NF electrode except with different annealing times (30 and 180 min).

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21902129), the Sichuan Science and Technology Program (2022NSFSC0260, 2021JDTD0019), the Project of State Key Laboratory of Environment-friendly Energy Materials, Southwest University of

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

electrochemical reconstruction, Raman spectroscopy, sulfur-vacancy, urea oxidation electrocatalysis

> Received: April 24, 2024 Revised: May 29, 2024 Published online: June 14, 2024

16136829, 2024, 42, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202403311 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] K. Ye, G. Wang, D. Cao, G. Wang, *Top. Curr. Chem.* **2018**, *376*, 42.
- [2] C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000556.
- [3] W. Han, J. Wei, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, X. Peng, S. Zhao, Z. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202206050.
- [4] H. Wang, L. Zhang, H. Jiang, P. Kannan, R. Wang, P. Subramanian, S. Ji, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2021**, *870*, 159486.
- [5] K. Zhang, S. Wang, X. Li, H. Li, Y. Ni, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2300959.
- [6] S. Geng, Y. Zheng, S. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q. Liu, S. Qiao, *Nat. Energy.* **2021**, *6*, 904.

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[7] S. Patil, N. Chodankar, S. Hwang, G. Raju, Y. Huh, Y. Han, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2103326.
- [8] S. Tatarchuk, J. Medvedev, F. Li, Y. Tobolovskaya, A. Klinkova, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202209839.
- [9] Z. Yu, C. Lang, M. Gao, Y. Chen, Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 1890.
- [10] T. Yu, Q. Xu, J. Chen, G. Qian, X. Zhuo, H. Yang, S. Yin, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *449*, 137791.
- [11] Z. Gao, Y. Liao, A. Deng, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, L. Xia, Y. Qing, X. Li, Y. Wu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *456*, 141117.
- [12] T. Yu, Q. Xu, J. Chen, G. Qian, X. Zhuo, H. Yang, S. Yin, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *435*, 134986.
- [13] Z. Ji, Y. Song, S. Zhao, Y. Li, J. Liu, W. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 569.
- [14] L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 10577.
- [15] Y. Gan, Y. Ye, X. Dai, X. Yin, Y. Cao, R. Cai, B. Feng, Q. Wang, X. Zhang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2303250.
- [16] J. Yoon, Y. Yoon, D. Kim, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 7651.
- [17] J. Xie, L. Gao, S. Cao, W. Liu, F. Lei, P. Hao, X. Xia, B. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2019**, *7*, 13577.
- [18] W. Bao, J. Yang, W. Yan, Y. Tang, Z. Yang, Y. Zhao, G. Wang, S. Yang, F. Yu, *J. Power Sources.* **2023**, *580*, 233307.
- [19] J. Huang, J. Chen, T. Yao, J. He, S. Jiang, Z. Sun, Q. Liu, W. Cheng, F. Hu, Y. Jiang, Z. Pan, S. Wei, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 8722.
- [20] N. Yao, G. Wang, H. Jia, J. Yin, H. Cong, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202117178.
- [21] M. Cai, Q. Zhu, X. Wang, Z. Shao, L. Yao, H. Zeng, X. Wu, J. Chen, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209338.
- [22] L. Zhang, L. Wang, H. Lin, Y. Liu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, A. Chen, L. Wang, F. Ni, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, Y. Li, B. Zhang, H. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 16820.
- [23] J. Zhang, J. Zhu, L. Kang, Q. Zhang, L. Liu, F. Guo, K. Li, J. Feng, L. Xia, L. Lv, W. Zong, P. Shearing, D. Brett, I. Parkin, X. Song, L. Mai, G. He, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 6015.
- [24] D. Li, W. Wan, Z. Wang, H. Wu, S. Wu, T. Jiang, G. Cai, C. Jiang, F. Ren, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2201913.
- [25] F. Wu, R. Yang, S. Lu, W. Du, B. Zhang, Y. Shi, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2022**, *7*, 4198.
- [26] W. Jiang, X. Zhuo, T. Yu, J. Lu, Z. Zhai, H. Wen, S. Yin, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2024**, *12*, 998.
- [27] B. Liu, S. Qu, Y. Kou, Z. Liu, X. Chen, Y. Wu, X. Han, Y. Deng, W. Hu, C. Zhong, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2018**, *10*, 30433.
- [28] Y. Zhu, J. Lim, Z. Zhang, Y. Wang, S. Sarkar, H. Ramsden, Y. Li, H. Yan, D.i. Phuyal, N. Gauriot, A. Rao, R. Hoye, G. Eda, M. Chhowalla, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 13545.
- [29] C. Du, Q. Zhang, Z. Lin, B. Yan, C. Xia, G. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2019**, *248*, 193.

- [30] H. Xie, Y. Feng, X. He, Y. Zhu, Z. Li, H. Liu, S. Zeng, Q. Qian, G. Zhang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207425.
- [31] D. Ma, B. Hu, W. Wu, X. Liu, J. Zai, C. Shu, T. Tsega, L. Chen, X. Qian, T. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 3367.
- [32] Z. Xu, Q. Chen, Q. Chen, P. Wang, J. Wang, C. Guo, X. Qiu, X. Han, J. Hao, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2022**, *10*, 24137.
- [33] Q. Xu, M. Chu, M. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Jiang, C. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *411*, 128488.
- [34] R. Guan, G. Dong, Z. Li, S. Yang, W. Zhao, *J Mater Sci-Mater El* **2021**, *32*, 19136.
- [35] L. Jin, B. Huang, X. Qian, *ChemElectroChem* **2022**, *9*, 202101337.
- [36] S. Wang, X. Yang, Z. Liu, D. Yang, L. Feng, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 10827.
- [37] T. Chen, Q. Wu, F. Li, R. Zhong, Z. Chen, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 18364.
- [38] G. Zhang, D. Chen, N. Li, Q. Xu, H. Li, J. He, J. Lu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8255.
- [39] H. Yang, L. Gong, H. Wang, C. Dong, J. Wang, K. Qi, H. Liu, X. Guo, B. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5075.
- [40] L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen, X. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14023.
- [41] S. Deng, Y. Zhong, Y. Zeng, Y. Wang, X. Wang, X. Lu, X. Xia, J. Tu, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2003294.
- [42] P. Zhai, Y. Zhang, Y. Wu, J. Gao, B. Zhang, S. Cao, Y. Zhang, Z. Li, L.
- Sun, J. Hou, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5462. [43] J. Liu, M. Wang, L. Zhang, D. Zang, H. Liu, L. Francesca Liotta, H. Wu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *591*, 148.
- [44] G. Qian, J. Chen, W. Jiang, T. Yu, K. Tan, S. Yin, *Carbon Energy* **2023**,
- *5*, e368. [45] M. Chen, H. Li, C. Wu, Y. Liang, J. Qi, J. Li, E. Shangguan, W. Zhang,
- R. Cao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2206407. [46] C. Hu, Y. Hu, C. Fan, L. Yang, Y. Zhang, H. Li, W. Xie, *Angew. Chem.,*
- *Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19774. [47] P. Gao, Y. Zeng, P. Tang, Z. Wang, J. Yang, A. Hu, J. Liu, *Adv. Funct.*
- *Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2108644. [48] W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du,
- Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7297.
- [49] Z. Xing, D. Wang, T. Meng, X. Yang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2020**, *12*, 39163.
- [50] L. Wang, H. Su, Z. Zhang, J. Xin, H. Liu, X. Wang, C. Yang, X. Liang, S. Wang, H. Liu, Y. Yin, T. Zhang, Y. Tian, Y. Li, Q. Liu, X. Sun, J. Sun, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202314185.
- [51] H. Sun, L. Li, H. Chen, D. Duan, M. Humayun, Y. Qiu, X. Zhang, X. Ao, Y. Wu, Y. Pang, K. Huo, C. Wang, Y. Xiong, *Sci. Bull.* **2022**, *67*, 1763.
- [52] A. Kumar, X. Liu, J. Lee, B. Debnath, A. Jadhav, X. Shao, V. Bui, Y. Hwang, Y. Liu, M. Kim, H. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6494.
- [53] T. Wang, L. Miao, S. Zheng, H. Qin, X. Cao, L. Yang, L. Jiao, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4091.