---
source: Li 等 - 2017 - Mechanism of Water Oxidation Catalyzed by a Mononuclear Manganese Complex.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.528s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:05:58.336386Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201601538 Full Papers

# Mechanism of Water Oxidation Catalyzed by a Mononuclear Manganese Complex

Ying-Ying Li,[a] Ke Ye, [a] Per E. M. Siegbahn, [b] and [Rong-Zhen](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8989-6928) Liao\*[a]

The design and synthesis of biomimetic Mn complexes to catalyze oxygen evolution is a very appealing goal because water oxidation in nature employs a Mn complex. Recently, the mononuclear Mn complex [LMnII(H2O)<sup>2</sup> 2+ [1, L=Py2N(tBu)<sup>2</sup> , Py=pyridyl] was reported to catalyze water oxidation electrochemically at an applied potential of 1.23 V at pH 12.2 in aqueous solution. Density functional calculations were performed to elucidate the mechanism of water oxidation promoted by this catalyst. The calculations showed that 1 can lose two protons and one electron readily to produce [LMnIII(OH)<sup>2</sup> + (2),

which then undergoes two sequential proton-coupled electron-transfer processes to afford [LMn<sup>V</sup>OO]<sup>+</sup> (4). The O@O bond formation can occur through direct coupling of the two oxido ligands or through nucleophilic attack of water. These two mechanisms have similar barriers of approximately 17 kcal mol@<sup>1</sup> . The further oxidation of 4 to generate [LMnVIOO]<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (5), which enables O@O bond formation, has a much higher barrier. In addition, ligand degradation by C@H activation has a similar barrier to that for the O@O bond formation, and this explains the relatively low turnover number of this catalyst.

# Introduction

The splitting of water into molecular oxygen and hydrogen driven by sunlight is a very promising technology for the conversion of solar energy to chemical energy. In nature, water oxidation is catalyzed by the Mn4Ca cluster in the oxygen-evolving complex (OEC)[1–4] of photosystem II. During this process, four photons provide the energy for the removal of four electrons and four protons, and this is followed by O@O bond formation through the direct coupling of a Mn IV-bound oxyl radical and a Mn-bridging oxido ligand.[5–8]

During the last three decades, extraordinary efforts have been dedicated to the laboratory synthesis of Mn complexes that mimic the structure and function of the OEC.[9–30] In 2014, Smith and co-workers [31] disclosed the mononuclear Mn complex [{Py2N(tBu)<sup>2</sup> }Mn(H2O)<sup>2</sup> 2+ (1, Py=pyridyl), which enables electrocatalytic water oxidation in basic aqueous solution. At pH 12.2, the onset potential was measured to be approximately 1.3 V, which corresponds to an overpotential of approximately 0.8 V, and the turnover number was estimated to be approximately 20. Mechanistic studies showed a first-order dependence of the water-oxidation rate on the concentration of 1; therefore, the involvement of a dinuclear catalyst can be ruled out. The bulky tBu group may play an important role in preventing the formation of the dinuclear complex, as the displacement of a tBu group by a much less bulky hydrogen atom or methyl group leads to the formation of a dimeric species during the oxidation of the corresponding monomeric complex.[32–34] In addition, the involvement of nanoparticles has also been excluded on the basis of several control experiments. [31] Furthermore, a water-nucleophilic-attack pathway was suggested for the critical O@O bond formation.[31]

In the present study, density functional calculations were employed to elucidate the reaction mechanism of water oxidation catalyzed by the mononuclear Mn complex 1. We found that the O@O bond formation occurs at a formal Mn<sup>V</sup> center through a direct coupling of two oxido ligands bound to the Mn center or through the alternative water nucleophilic attack. These two pathways have similar barriers at the B3LYP-D3 and B3LYP\*-D3 levels, whereas the M06-D3 functional favors the direct-coupling pathway significantly. These findings will undoubtedly help the design of improved Mn catalysts for water oxidation.

# Computational Methods

The calculations presented herein were performed with the B3LYP-D3 density functional (with the Grimme[35] D3 dispersion),[36] as implemented in the Gaussian 09 program.[37] The geometries were optimized with the SDD[38] pseudopotential for Mn and the 6-31G(d,p) basis sets for the C, N, O, and H atoms. The frequencies were computed analytically at the same level of theory as that for the geometry optimizations to verify the nature of all the stationary points (no imaginary fre-

[a] Y.-Y. Li, K. Ye, Prof. Dr. R.-Z. Liao

Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage, Ministry of Education, Hubei Key Laboratory of Bioinorganic Chemistry and Materia Medica, Hubei Key Laboratory of Materials Chemistry and Service Failure, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Wuhan 430074 (P. R. China) E-mail: rongzhen@hust.edu.cn

[b] Prof. Dr. P. E. M. Siegbahn Department of Organic Chemistry, Arrhenius Laboratory

SE-10691 Stockholm (Sweden)

Stockholm University

Supporting Information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201601538) [cssc.201601538.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201601538)

quencies for minima and only one imaginary frequency for transition states) and also to obtain Gibbs free-energy corrections at 298.15 K. On the basis of the optimized geometries, the final and solvation energies in water solution were calculated as single-point corrections with the solvation model based on density (SMD)[39] continuum solvation model and a larger basis set, in which all elements except Mn (SDD for Mn) were described by 6-311+ G(2df,2p). Singlet-point calculations were also performed with the B3LYP\*-D3 [40] [15% Hartree–Fock (HF) exchange, including D3 correction from B3LYP] and M06-D3[41] methods to evaluate the sensitivities of the redox potentials and barriers to the choice of functionals (see below). For the solvation energy of water in water solution, the experimental value of @6.3 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> was used.[42] The concentration correction of 1.9 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> derived from the freeenergy change for 1 atm (in gas phase, 24.5 Lmol@<sup>1</sup> 298.15 K) to 1m (in water solution) at 298.15 K was added for all species expect for water, for which 4.3 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> was used because the standard state of the water solvent is 55.6m.

To calculate the redox potentials for all oxidation steps, the experimental absolute redox potential of the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE, 4.281 V) was used as a reference and corresponds to an electron affinity of 98.7 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . [43] For the calculations of the pK<sup>a</sup> values, which are important for the identification of the protonation states of various species at the working pH (pH 12.2), the experimental solvation energy of a proton (@264.0 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> , corresponding to 1 atm in the gas phase and 1m in the solution phase) [42] was used. It should be noted that this methodology leads to a total driving force of 68.9 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> , which differs somewhat from the experimental value of 66.6 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> [4V(0.508– 1.23)V23.0605]. Thus, the error for the total driving force is only 2.3 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> , and the error for each oxidation step is only 0.6 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> ; this value is so small that it does not alter any mechanistic conclusions in the present study. The uncertainties of the DFT/SMD method for the calculation of the redox potentials and pK<sup>a</sup> values have been shown to be approximately 0.2 V and three units in water solution, respectively. [44,45]

,

## Results and Discussion

## Oxidation from 1 to 4

Our investigation started from the hexacoordinate MnII complex 1 (Figure 1), the ligand framework of which is composed of Py2N(tBu)<sup>2</sup> (a macrocycle with two pyridine rings and two

Figure 1. Optimized structures of 1, 2, 3, and 4. Distances are given in a. Spin densities on selected atoms are indicated in italics. For clarity, unimportant hydrogen atoms are not shown.

amine groups) and two aqua ligands. It should be mentioned that different protonation states have to be considered to identify the most stable structure at the working pH (pH 12.2). The pK<sup>a</sup> of 1 was calculated to be 16.7, which suggests that 1 has two bound water molecules and a total charge of +2. Complex 1 prefers to be a high-spin sextet, and the doublet and quartet are 48.7 and 35.8 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher, respectively.

1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

The oxidation of 1 is associated with the release of two protons (Scheme 1). The reason that this can occur is that the pH value is as high as 12.2. At a normal pH value of 7 this would be quite costly. The quintet MnIII complex 2 (Figure 1) is generated, and the singlet and triplet states are 56.8 and 27.9 kcal mol@<sup>1</sup> higher, respectively. The pK<sup>a</sup> values of [LMnIII(H2O)<sup>2</sup> 3+ (2dpt) and [LMnIII(H2O)(OH)]<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (2pt, Figure S2 in the Supporting Information) were calculated to be @1.45 and 5.94, respectively. The redox potential for this oxidation step was calculated to be 0.04 V; thus, this step is exergonic by 27.4 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> (Figure 2) at an applied potential of 1.23 V.

Next, a proton-coupled electron-transfer (PCET) oxidation leads to the formation of [LMnIVO (OH)]<sup>+</sup> (3, Scheme 1) with an associated redox potential of 1.40 V. It should be pointed out that the pK<sup>a</sup> of [LMnIV(OH)<sup>2</sup> ] 2+ (3pt, Figure S3) was calculated to be 12.18, which is very close to the working pH (pH 12.2). Therefore, it is difficult to determine whether the oxidation is a PCET process or a one-electron process. The calculated redox

$$\begin{bmatrix} OH_{2} \\ Mn^{II} - OH_{2} \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-2H^{+} - e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{III} - OH \end{bmatrix}^{+}_{-H^{+} - e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{IV} = O \end{bmatrix}^{+}_{-H^{+} - e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{IV} = O \end{bmatrix}^{+}_{-H^{+} - e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e^{-}} \begin{bmatrix} OH \\ Mn^{V} = O \end{bmatrix}^{2+}_{-e$$

Scheme 1. Calculated redox potentials from 1 to 5. The Py2N(tBu)<sup>2</sup> ligand is omitted.

Figure 2. Energy diagram for water oxidation catalyzed by 1.

potential of 1.40 V is slightly higher than the applied potential (1.23 V) and suggests that this oxidation process is endergonic by 3.9 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . Species 3 is a quartet and best described as a high-spin MnIII center (SMn=2) coupled antiferromagnetically to an oxyl radical (SO=1/2); however, it also involves some MnIV=O character. The spin densities at the Mn and O2 atoms are 3.60 and @0.69, respectively. The doublet is 20.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher in energy. It is pertinent to mention that both [MnIVO(OH)]<sup>+</sup> and [MnIV(OH)<sup>2</sup> 2+ forms have also been found for related Mn complexes with tetradentate N<sup>4</sup> supporting ligands. [46–52] For example, Busch and co-workers reported the crystal structure of [Me2EBCMnIV(OH)<sup>2</sup> 2+ (Me2EBC=4,11-dimethyl-1,4,8–11,tetraazabicyclo[6.6.2]hexadecane), the pK<sup>a</sup> of which was estimated to be approximately 10.[47] This value is quite close to our calculated value for species 3 (pKa=12.2), even though the metal environment is slightly different.

The subsequent PCET leads to the generation of the triplet Mn<sup>V</sup> complex [LMn<sup>V</sup>O<sup>2</sup> + (4, Scheme 1). The pK<sup>a</sup> of [LMn<sup>V</sup>O(OH)]<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (4pt, Figure S4) was calculated to be 7.7. The redox potential for this oxidation step was calculated to be 1.22 V, which is unexpectedly lower than that for the oxidation of 2. The reason for this could be the density functional used because some other functionals gave a somewhat different picture (see below). A spin-population analysis on 4 showed partial spin delocalization on the two oxido ligands (1.59 for Mn, 0.19 for O1, and 0.22 for O2). The broken-symmetry singlet and quintet states lie at +14.9 and +1.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> , respectively, relative to the triplet state. For the quintet, the spin densities for Mn, O1, and O2, are 2.27, 0.88, and 0.88, respectively.

1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

The calculated redox potential for 2/3 is higher than the applied one. A very important concern is whether 3 and 4 can be accessed or not. The accessibility of a redox process with a higher potential than the applied potential depends on whether a subsequent irreversible chemical reaction occurs. If a subsequent irreversible chemical reaction did not occur, O@O bond formation in this case, 3 and 4 would not be accumulated and observed because their formation would be hindered thermodynamically. However, the situation becomes different if a subsequent irreversible O@O bond-formation step occurs. In principle, the reaction can continue from 4 and pass the following transition state as long as it has a reasonable barrier (see below). A similar analysis can be found in our previous study on Ir-catalyzed water oxidation.[53]

#### O@O bond formation from [LMn<sup>V</sup>O<sup>2</sup> ] +

The formal Mn<sup>V</sup> state has been proposed to initiate the O@O bond formation for both the OEC and many other biomimetic Mn catalysts.[54–62] Two mechanistic scenarios (Scheme 2) can be envisioned for O@O bond formation from 4. First, the O@O bond can be formed through the direct coupling of the two oxido ligands. Second, a water molecule might initiate a nucleophilic attack on the Mn<sup>V</sup>=O moieties, as suggested by Smith and co-workers.[31] Thus, both pathways were considered.

The transition state (TS1) for the oxo–oxo coupling at the Mn<sup>V</sup> state is shown in Figure 3. TS1 prefers to be a quintet, in which the two oxygen atoms have opposite spins (0.87 and @0.68), as is required for an efficient O@O bond formation. The barrier was calculated to be 13.8 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to 4. If the energetic penalty for the formation of 4 is added, the total barrier becomes 17.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . For the triplet state of TS1, the barrier of 26.6 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to 4 is 12.8 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher than that of the quintet. Importantly, a spin crossing from the triplet to the quintet is necessary for this step. The reason is that the resulting intermediate Int1 prefers to be a quintet, and the triplet state is 29.4 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher in

energy. At TS1, the nascent O@O bond length is 2.10 a, a decrease from 2.63 a in 4. In addition, the Mn@O1 and Mn@O2

Figure 3. Optimized structures of TS1, Int1, TS1', and Int1', Distances are given in a. Spin densities on selected atoms are indicated in italics. The imaginary frequencies of TS1 and TS1' are also shown. For clarity, unimportant hydrogen atoms are not shown.

bond lengths are inequivalent (1.74 and 1.83 a, respectively). TS1 was characterized to be a true transition state (see the in1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Scheme 2. Suggested water-oxidation mechanism for catalyst 1.

trinsic reaction coordinate[63] profile in Figure S10) with only one imaginary frequency of 423.1i cm@<sup>1</sup> At Int1, the O@O bond length is 1.43 a, and the spin density for the Mn atom is 4.05. The electronic structure of Int1 can be best characterized as a MnIII–peroxido species.

.

For the alternative water-nucleophilic-attack mechanism, one of the two oxygen atoms functions as a general base to abstract a proton from the water molecule during the attack. The optimized five-membered-ring transition state (TS1', see Figure S11 for the intrinsic reaction coordinate profile) in the triplet state and the resulting intermediate (Int1') in the quintet state are displayed in Figure 3. Int1' is an isomer of Int2 with a different hydrogenbonding pattern between the hydroxide and the hydroperoxide anions, and the interconversion between Int1' and Int2 is very facile. The total barrier for this mechanism was calculated to be 16.8 kcal mol@<sup>1</sup> (13.1 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to 4, Figure 2) in the triplet state, whereas it is 8.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher for the quintet state. This is slightly lower than that for the direct oxo–oxo coupling mechanism. Thus, it is quite difficult to draw a safe conclusion about which one is preferred, and both pathways probably contribute to the catalysis. We have also considered the use of an additional water molecule to facilitate the proton transfer during the attack. This seven-membered ring transition state (TS1'') is shown in Figure S5, and the barrier was calculated to be higher (19.2 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to 4); this suggests that the inclusion of more water does not lower the barrier for the water attack.

From Int1, a water insertion (via TS2) is coupled with a proton transfer to the peroxido ligand to generate the MnIII(OH)(OOH) intermediate Int2.

The energies of TS2 and Int2 were calculated to be 13.0 and 2.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> , respectively, relative to Int1. From Int2, a PCET oxidation leads to the formation of the quartet Mn III – superoxido intermediate Int3 (the sextet is 4.2 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher) with a redox potential of only 0.15 V. For Int3, the spin densities for Mn, O1, and O2 are 4.16, @0.52, and @0.80, respectively. If the spin state is switched into the octet, O<sup>2</sup> dissociates from the metal spontaneously. Further, the one-electron oxidation of Int3 leads to the formation of a septet MnIII – oxygen complex, intermediate Int4 (Figure 4), with a redox potential of 0.66 V. During the oxidation, an electron is removed from the superoxido ligand. Then, Int5 (Figure 4) is formed through the release of the O<sup>2</sup> molecule from Int4, and this step was calculated to be exergonic by 6.6 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . Finally, another water molecule binds the MnIII ion, followed by a deprotonation to regenerate 2, which can start the next catalytic cycle. The concerted O<sup>2</sup> release and water-binding pathway (via TS3) has also been considered. However, it is less favorable, and the barrier for TS3 (Figure 4) was calculated to be 2.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> in the septet state (5.6 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> for the triplet state).

Figure 4. Optimized structures of TS2, Int2, Int3, Int4, TS3, and Int5. Distances are given in a. Spin densities on selected atoms are indicated in italics. The imaginary frequencies of TS2 and TS3 are also shown. For clarity, unimportant hydrogen atoms are not shown.

Possibly, the O<sup>2</sup> release occurs directly from Int3 to form Int4' (Figure S6), and this process was calculated to be exergonic by 5.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . Further water binding and protonation can regenerate 1. The concerted pathway via TS3' (quartet, Figure S6) has a barrier of 3.8 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to Int3. However, both pathways seem to be thermodynamically less favorable compared with the one-electron oxidation of Int3.

1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

#### O@O bond formation from [LMnVIO<sup>2</sup> 2+

The one-electron oxidation of 4 (Scheme 1) to form a formally MnVI complex 5 (Figure 5) has also been considered, and the redox potential for this step was calculated to be 1.80 V. An energetic penalty of 13.1 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> has to be paid for this step if a potential of 1.23 V is applied. Complex 5 is a doublet, and the spin densities for Mn, O1, and O2 are 1.45, @0.56, and 0.28, respectively. The quartet and the sextet state are 9.2 and 10.3 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher in energy, respectively.

Similarly to 4, both direct oxo–oxo coupling and water-nucleophilic-attack mechanisms have been considered for 5. The transition states (5-TS1 for O@O coupling and 5-TS1' for water

Figure 5. Optimized structures of 5, 5-TS1, 5-Int1, 5-TS1', and 5-Int1'. Distances are given in a. Spin densities on selected atoms are indicated in italics. The imaginary frequencies of 5-TS1 and 5-TS1' are also shown. For clarity, unimportant hydrogen atoms are not shown.

nucleophilic attack) and the resulting intermediates (5-Int1 and 5-Int1') are displayed in Figure 5. 5-TS1 has a barrier of 23.0 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> in the quartet state (41.3 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> for the doublet), which is 5.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> higher than the barrier for oxo– oxo coupling from 4. At 5-TS1, the critical O1@O2 distance is 2.03 a, which is slightly shorter than that in TS1. For the waternucleophilic-attack mechanism, 5-TS1' has an even higher barrier of 28.7 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> (Figure 2) in the quartet state (33.7 kcal mol@<sup>1</sup> for the doublet) relative to 2. These results suggest that O@O bond formation preferentially occurs at the formally Mn<sup>V</sup> state.

Single-point calculations by the B3LYP\*-D3 and M06-D3 methods were also performed. The redox potentials and total barriers are displayed in Table 1. Importantly, for the total barriers, all three functionals gave a lower barrier for the Mn V state compared with that for the MnVI state. For B3LYP-D3 and B3LYP\*-D3, both direct oxo–oxo coupling and waternucleophilic-attach mechanisms are possible for the O@O bond formation at the Mn<sup>V</sup> state. However, for M06-D3, the direct oxo–oxo coupling mechanism is much more favorable than the water-nucleophilic mechanism. For B3LYP-D3 and B3LYP\*-D3, the calculated redox potential for the MnIV/Mn<sup>V</sup> couple is slightly lower than that for the MnIII/MnIV couple, whereas M06-D3 gave the opposite results. In addition, M06-D3 gave a larger energy cost for the access to the Mn<sup>V</sup> state. This is quite similar to the results for the OEC, for which Siegbahn and Blomberg found that only B3LYP with 20 and 15% HF exact exchange show good agreement with the available experimental data.[64] Of course, the study of the OEC is more challenging because it involves four Mn ions, whereas only one Mn ion is involved in the present case. It seems that B3LYP with 20 and 15% HF exact exchange is a suitable choice for the study of Mn-based water-oxidation catalysis.[61,64,65]

## Catalyst degradation

The relatively low turnover number (TON) of this Mn catalyst indicates that ligand degradation occurs under highly oxidative conditions. It is very difficult to identify these undesired pathways experimentally; however, density functional calculations can provide important implications for the initial ligand modifications by the high-valent metal oxido intermedi1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

ates.[61,66] For the present catalyst, two plausible competing pathways have been considered, namely, the C@H activation of the methyl groups and the nitrogen oxidation of the pyridine and amine groups. There are four possibilities for the C@H activation, and the corresponding transition states are shown in Figure 6. The C@H activation occurs in the triplet state, and the lowest barrier (TSCH3) is 15.3 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to 2 at the B3LYP-D3 level. This barrier is actually 1.5 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> lower than that for O@O bond formation (Table 2) and is 3.0 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup>

|           | Redox potential [V] |                |          |              | Total barrier[a] [kcalmol@1 | ]           |
|-----------|---------------------|----------------|----------|--------------|-----------------------------|-------------|
|           | MnII/MnIII          | MnIII<br>/MnIV | MnIV/MnV | MnV<br>/MnVI | MnV                         | MnVI        |
| B3LYP-D3  | 0.04                | 1.40           | 1.22     | 1.80         | 17.5 (16.8)                 | 23.0 (28.7) |
| B3LYP*-D3 | @0.24               | 1.16           | 0.91     | 1.62         | 13.2 (14.2)                 | 23.2 (29.4) |
| M06-D3    | 0.16                | 1.39           | 1.54     | 1.74         | 16.6 (25.6)                 | 29.9 (36.8) |

1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 6. Optimized structures of the transition states for ligand degradation. Energies are given in kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> relative to 2 (energies relative to 4 are shown in parentheses). Distances are given in a. Spin densities on selected atoms are indicated in italics. The imaginary frequencies are also shown. For clarity, unimportant hydrogen atoms are not shown.

| Table 2. Comparison of the barriers for O@O bond formation and ligand degradation<br>for different density functionals. |                               |                 |      |      |      |      |      |      |  |  |  |  |  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------|------|------|------|------|------|------|--|--|--|--|--|
|                                                                                                                         | Total barrier [kcalmol@1<br>] |                 |      |      |      |      |      |      |  |  |  |  |  |
|                                                                                                                         | Water attack                  | Direct coupling | CH1  | CH2  | CH3  | CH4  | CN1  | CN2  |  |  |  |  |  |
| B3LYP-D3                                                                                                                | 16.8                          | 17.5            | 16.5 | 17.8 | 15.3 | 20.7 | 38.4 | 23.7 |  |  |  |  |  |
| B3LYP*-D3                                                                                                               | 14.2                          | 13.2            | 16.6 | 16.2 | 17.2 | 20.5 | 38.8 | 26.4 |  |  |  |  |  |
| M06-D3                                                                                                                  | 25.6                          | 16.6            | 16.6 | 18.3 | 20.8 | 20.7 | 36.3 | 29.4 |  |  |  |  |  |

higher if B3LYP\*-D3 is used. The energy difference is so small that we cannot draw a solid conclusion about which one is favored on the basis of the calculations. However, because O@O bond formation can be observed, it is highly likely that the B3LYP\*-D3 method gave better results. Nitrogen oxidation has a higher barrier. The two optimized transition states are displayed in Figure 6. The oxidation of the pyridyl moiety has a barrier of 38.4 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> , whereas that for the amine oxidation is 23.7 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . Consequently, the oxidation of a methyl group is the dominant ligand degradation pathway, similarly to our previous study on the Fe catalyst of Collins.[66] On the basis of these calculations, we suggest that the methyl ligand should be modified to a more inert one to prevent C@H activation and catalyst degradation and, thus, increase the TON. In addition, electron-donating substituents might be introduced to lower the redox potentials and energy cost for the formation of the high-valent Mn<sup>V</sup> state, in which the O@O bond formation occurs.

# Conclusions

In this paper, the water-oxidation mechanism of [LMn(H2O)<sup>2</sup> 2+ [L=Py2N(tBu)<sup>2</sup> ] was investigated through density functional calculations. Various redox intermediates, redox potentials, and reaction pathways for O@O bond formation, O<sup>2</sup> release, and ligand degradation were calculated. The whole catalytic cycle is summarized in Scheme 2, and the corresponding energy diagram is shown in Figure 2.

Three sequential oxidations of 1 result in the generation of the formal Mn<sup>V</sup> species 4, from which the critical O@O bond formation can proceed through either direct oxo–oxo coupling or water attack. Both pathways gave barriers of approximately 17 kcal mol@<sup>1</sup> at the B3LYP-D3 level, whereas the M06-D3 results favor the direct oxo–oxo coupling pathway by more than 10 kcalmol@<sup>1</sup> . Further experimental studies may be helpful to distinguish these two pathways because they should give different deuterium kinetic isotope effects.

For the oxo–oxo coupling mechanism, a water insertion leads to the formation of a Mn III(OH)(OOH) intermediate, which undergoes a proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) to form the MnIII–superoxido intermediate Int3, followed by another one-electron oxidation to form the MnIII complex Int4 with a bound oxygen molecule. Finally, O<sup>2</sup> release occurs from Int4 and is followed by water binding and deprotonation to regenerate 2 for the next catalytic cycle.

The further one-electron oxidation of 4 to form the formally MnVI complex 5 has a potential of 1.80 V, which is too high to be accessible. Importantly, the subsequent O@O bond formation through either direct oxo–oxo coupling or water attack has very high barriers. These results further support that the

O@O bond formation occurs at the Mn<sup>V</sup> state.

The dominant pathway for ligand degradation has been found to be C@H activation, which explains the rather low turnover number (TON) of this catalyst. The methyl-substituted ligand could be modified into a more inert one to prevent C@H activation and increase the TON of the catalyst. Further experimental studies are needed to verify our suggestions.

# Full Papers

# Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21503083) and startup funding from Huazhong University of Science and Technology.

Keywords: density functional theory · manganese · oxidation · reaction mechanism · water splitting

- [1] K. N. Ferreira, T. M. Iverson, K. Maghlaoui, J. Barber, S. Iwata, [Science](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1093087) 2004, 303[, 1831](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1093087) [– 1838](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1093087).
- [2] B. Loll, J. Kern, W. Saenger, A. Zouni, J. Biesiadka, [Nature](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature04224) 2005, 438, [1040](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature04224) [– 1044](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature04224).
- [3] A. Guskov, J. Kern, A. Gabdulkhakov, M. Broser, A. Zouni, W. J. Saenger, Nat. [Struct.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nsmb.1559) Mol. Biol. 2009, 16, 334 – 341.
- [4] Y. Umena, K. Kawakami, J.-R. Shen, N. Kamiya, [Nature](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature09913) 2011, 473, 55 60.
- [5] P. E. M. Siegbahn, Chem. Eur. J. 2006, 12[, 9217](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/chem.200600774)  [9227](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/chem.200600774).
- [6] P. E. M. Siegbahn, Chem. Eur. J. 2008, 14[, 8290](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/chem.200800445)  [8302](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/chem.200800445).
- [7] P. E. M. Siegbahn, Acc. [Chem. Res.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ar900117k) 2009, 42, 1871 1880.
- [8] P. E. M. Siegbahn, [Biochim. Biophys.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bbabio.2012.10.006) Acta 2013, 1827, 1003 1019.
- [9] Y. Naruta, M. Sasayama, T. Sasaki, [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.199418391) Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1994, 33, [1839](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.199418391); [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.19941061829) 1994, 106, 1964.
- [10] J. Limburg, J. S. Vrettos, L. M. Liable-Sands, A. L. Rheingold, R. H. Crabtree, G. W. Brudvig, [Science](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.283.5407.1524) 1999, 283, 1524 – 1527.
- [11] M. Yagi, K. Narita, J. Am. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja039780c) Soc. 2004, 126, 8084  [8085](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja039780c).
- [12] Y. Shimazaki, T. Nagano, H. Takesue, B.-H. Ye, F. Tani, Y. Naruta, [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200352564) [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200352564) Int. Ed. 2004, 43, 98 – 100; [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.200352564) 2004, 116, 100– 102.
- [13] A. K. Poulsen, A. Rompel, C. J. McKenzie, [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200502114) Chem. Int. Ed. 2005, 44, [6916](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200502114) [– 6920](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200502114); [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.200502114) 2005, 117, 7076– 7080.
- [14] P. Kurz, G. Berggren, M. F. Anderlund, S. Styring, [Dalton](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b710761g) Trans. 2007, [4258](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b710761g) [– 4261](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b710761g).
- [15] Y. Gao, J.-H. Liu, M. Wang, Y. Na, B. akermark, L.-C. Sun, [Tetrahedron](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tet.2006.12.060) 2007, 63[, 1987](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tet.2006.12.060) [– 1994.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tet.2006.12.060)
- [16] K. Beckmann, H. Uchtenhagen, G. Berggren, M. F. Anderlund, A. Thapper, J. Messinger, S. Styring, P. Kurz, Energy [Environ.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b811806j) Sci. 2008, 1, 668 – [676.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b811806j)
- [17] Y. Gao, T. akermark, J.-H. Liu, L.-C. Sun, B. akermark, J. Am. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja901139r) Soc. 2009, 131[, 8726](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja901139r) [– 8727](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja901139r).
- [18] R. Brimblecombe, A. Koo, G. C. Dismukes, G. F. Swiegers, L. Spiccia, [J.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja910055a) Am. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja910055a) Soc. 2010, 132, 2892 [– 2894](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja910055a).
- [19] E. A. Karlsson, B.-L. Lee, T. akermark, E. V. Johnston, M. D. K-rk-s, J.-L. Sun, :. Hansson, J.-E. B-ckvall, B. akermark, [Angew. Chem. Int.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201104355) Ed. 2011, 50[, 11715](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201104355) [– 11718](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201104355); Angew. Chem. 2011, 123[, 11919 –](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201104355) 11922.
- [20] J. S. Kanady, E. Y. Tsui, M. W. Day, T. Agapie, [Science](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1206036) 2011, 333, 733 736.
- [21] H.-M. Berends, A.-M. Manke, C. N-ther, F. Tuczek, P. Kurz, [Dalton](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2dt30129f) Trans. 2012, 41[, 6215](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2dt30129f) [– 6047.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2dt30129f)
- [22] K. J. Young, M. K. Takase, G. W. Brudvig, Inorg. Chem. 2013, 52[, 7615](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic400691e) [7622.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic400691e)
- [23] M. D. K-rk-s, O. Verho, E. A. Karlsson, B. akermark, [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cr400572f) Rev. 2014, 114, [11863– 12001.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cr400572f)
- [24] W. A. A. Arafa, M. D. K-rk-s, B.-L. Lee, T. akermark, R.-Z. Liao, H.-M. Berends, J. Messinger, P. E. M. Siegbahn, B. akermark, Phys. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3cp54800g) Chem. Phys. 2014, 16[, 11950](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3cp54800g) [– 11964.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3cp54800g)
- [25] R. Al-Oweini, A. Sartorel, B. S. Bassil, M. Natali, S. Berardi, F. Scandola, U. Kortz, M. Bonchio, [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201404664) Int. Ed. 2014, 53[, 11182– 11185](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201404664); [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201404664) Chem. 2014, 126[, 11364](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201404664) [– 11367](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201404664).
- [26] S. Khan, K. R. Yang, M. Z. Ertem, V. S. Batista, G. W. Brudvig, ACS [Catal.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01976) 2015, 5[, 7104](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b01976) – 7113.
- [27] J. D. Blakemore, R. H. Crabtree, G. W. Brudvig, [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00122) Rev. 2015, 115, [12974](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00122) [– 13005](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00122).
- [28] L. Ma, Q. Wang, W.-L. Man, H.-K. Kwong, C.-C. Ko, T.-C. Lau, [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500507) Chem. Int. Ed. 2015, 54[, 5246](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500507) – 5249; [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201500507) 2015, 127, 5335 – [5338.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201500507)
- [29] C.-X. Zhang, C.-H. Chen, H.-X. Dong, J.-R. Shen, H. Dau, J.-Q. Zhao, [Sci](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa6550)ence 2015, 348[, 690– 693.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa6550)
- [30] B. Schwarz, J. Forster, M. K. Goetz, D. Yucel, C. Berger, T. Jacob, C. Streb, [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201601799) Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 6329 – 6333; [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201601799) 2016, 128, [6437](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201601799) [– 6441](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201601799).

- [31] T. Lee, S. B. Munoz III, D. A. Dickie, J. M. Smith, [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402407) Int. Ed. 2014, 53[, 9856](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402407) [– 9859](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402407); [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201402407) 2014, 126, 10014 – 10017.
- [32] C. Hureau, G. Blondin, M.-F. Charlot, C. Philouze, M. Nierlich, M. Cesario, E. Anxolabehere-Mallart, Inorg. Chem. 2005, 44[, 3669– 3683](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic050243y).
- [33] S. Groni, C. Hureau, R. Guillot, G. Blondin, G. Blain, E. Anxolabehere-Mallart, Inorg. Chem. 2008, 47[, 11783](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic8015172) [– 11797](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic8015172).
- [34] W.-T. Lee, S. Xu, D. A. Dickie, J. M. Smith, [Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ejic.201300184) 2013, [3867](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ejic.201300184) [– 3873](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ejic.201300184).
- [35] S. Grimme, J. Antony, S. Ehrlich, H. Krieg, J. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.3382344) Phys. 2010, 132, [154104](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.3382344).
- [36] A. D. Becke, J. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.464913) Phys. 1993, 98, 5648  [5652](http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.464913).
- [37] Gaussian 09 (Revision D.01), M. J. Frisch, G. W. Trucks, H. B. Schlegel, G. E. Scuseria, M. A. Robb, J. R. Cheeseman, G. Scalmani, V. Barone, B. Mennucci, G. A. Petersson, H. Nakatsuji, M. Caricato, X. Li, H. P. Hratchian, A. F. Izmaylov, J. Bloino, G. Zheng, J. L. Sonnenberg, M. Hada, M. Ehara, K. Toyota, R. Fukuda, J. Hasegawa, M. Ishida, T. Nakajima, Y. Honda, O. Kitao, H. Nakai, T. Vreven, J. A. Montgomery Jr., J. E. Peralta, F. Ogliaro, M. Bearpark, J. J. Heyd, E. Brothers, K. N. Kudin, V. N. Staroverov, R. Kobayashi, J. Normand, K. Raghavachari, A. Rendell, J. C. Burant, S. S. Iyengar, J. Tomasi, M. Cossi, N. Rega, M. J. Millam, M. Klene, J. E. Knox, J. B. Cross, V. Bakken, C. Adamo, J. Jaramillo, R. Gomperts, R. E. Stratmann, O. Yazyev, A. J. Austin, R. Cammi, C. Pomelli, J. W. Ochterski, R. L. Martin, K. Morokuma, V. G. Zakrzewski, G. A. Voth, P. Salvador, J. J. Dannenberg, S. Dapprich, A. D. Daniels, :. Farkas, J. B. Foresman, J. V. Ortiz, J. Cioslowski, D. J. Fox, Gaussian, Inc., Wallingford CT, 2009.
- [38] D. Andrae, U. H-ubermann, M. Dolg, H. Stoll, H. Preu, [Theor. Chim.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF01114537) Acta 1990, 77[, 123– 141.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF01114537)
- [39] A. V. Marenich, C. J. Cramer, D. G. Truhlar, J. Phys. [Chem. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp810292n) 2009, 113, [6378](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp810292n) [– 6396](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp810292n).
- [40] M. Reiher, O. Salomon, B. A. Hess, [Theor. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00214-001-0300-3) Acc. 2001, 107, 48 55.
- [41] Y. Zhao, D. G. Truhlar, [Theor. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00214-007-0310-x) Acc. 2008, 120, 215– 241.
- [42] D. M. Camaioni, C. A. Schwerdtfeger, J. Phys. Chem. A 2005, 109[, 10795](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp054088k) [10797](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp054088k).
- [43] A. A. Isse, A. Gennaro, J. Phys. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp100402x) B 2010, 114, 7894  [7899](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp100402x).
- [44] A. V. Marenich, J. Ho, M. Coote, C. J. Cramer, D. G. Truhlar, Phys. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c4cp01572j) Chem. Phys. 2014, 16[, 15068](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c4cp01572j) [– 15106](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c4cp01572j).
- [45] A. V. Marenich, A. Majumdar, M. Lenz, C. J. Cramer, D. G. Truhlar, [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206012) Chem. Int. Ed. 2012, 51[, 12810](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206012) [– 12814](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206012); [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201206012) 2012, 124, 12982 – [12986](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201206012).
- [46] G. Yin, M. Buchalova, A. M. Danby, C. M. Perkins, D. Kitko, J. D. Carter, W. M. Scheper, D. H. Busch, [Inorg. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic0522030) 2006, 45, 3467 – 3474.
- [47] G. Yin, J. M. McCormick, M. Buchalova, A. M. Danby, K. Rodgers, V. W. Day, K. Smith, C. M. Perkins, D. Kitko, J. D. Carter, W. M. Scheper, D. H. Busch, [Inorg. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic0521123) 2006, 45, 8052 – 8061.
- [48] G. Yin, A. M. Danby, D. Kitko, J. D. Carter, W. M. Scheper, D. H. Busch, Inorg. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic061957r) 2007, 46, 2173 [– 2180.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic061957r)
- [49] G. Yin, A. M. Danby, D. Kitko, J. D. Carter, W. M. Scheper, D. H. Busch, [J.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja0673229) Am. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja0673229) Soc. 2007, 129, 1512 [– 1513](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja0673229).
- [50] S. Shi, Y. Wang, A. Xu, H. Wang, D. Zhu, S. B. Roy, T. A. Jackson, D. H. Busch, G. Yin, [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201100588) Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 7321 – 7324; [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201100588) 2011, 123[, 7459– 7462.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201100588)
- [51] S. C. Sawant, X. Wu, J. Cho, K.-B. Cho, S. H. Kim, M. S. Seo, Y.-M. Lee, M. Kubo, T. Ogura, S. Shaik, W. Nam, [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201000819) Chem. Int. Ed. 2010, 49, 8190 – [8194](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201000819); [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201000819) 2010, 122, 8366 – 8370.
- [52] I. Garcia-Bosch, A. Company, C. W. Cady, S. Styring, W. R. Browne, X. Ribas, M. Costas, [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201100907) Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 5648 – 5653; [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201100907) [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201100907) 2011, 123, 5766 [– 5771](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201100907).
- [53] R. Z. Liao, P. E. M. Siegbahn, ACS Catal. 2014, 4[, 3937– 3949.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cs501160x)
- [54] P. E. M. Siegbahn, Inorg. Chem. 2000, 39[, 2923– 2935](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic9911872).
- [55] M. Lundberg, M. R. A. Blomberg, P. E. M. Siegbahn, [Inorg. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic0348188) 2004, 43[, 264– 274.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic0348188)
- [56] P. E. M. Siegbahn, M. Lundberg, [Photochem. Photobiol.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b506746b) Sci. 2005, 4, [1035](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b506746b) [– 1043](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/b506746b).
- [57] T. Privalov, L. Sun, B. akermark, J. Liu, Y. Gao, M. Wang, Inorg. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic700940x) 2007, 46[, 7075](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic700940x) [– 7086.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic700940x)
- [58] M. Busch, E. Ahlberg, I. Panas, Phys. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0cp02132f) Chem. Phys. 2011, 13, [15069](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0cp02132f) [– 15076](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0cp02132f).
- [59] W. M. C. Sameera, C. J. McKenzie, J. E. McGrady, [Dalton](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0dt01362e) Trans. 2011, 40, [3859](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0dt01362e) [– 3870](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0dt01362e).
- [60] M. Hatakeyama, H. Nakata, M. Wakabayashi, S. Yokojima, S. Nakamura, [J.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp300174n) Phys. [Chem. A](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp300174n) 2012, 116[, 7089– 7097](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp300174n).

1864564x, 2017, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201601538 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [61] R.-Z. Liao, M. D. K-rk-s, B. L. Lee, B. akermark, P. E. M. Siegbahn, [Inorg.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic5024983) [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic5024983) 2015, 54[, 342– 351](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ic5024983).
- [62] X.-C. Li, P. E. M. Siegbahn, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2015, 17[, 12168](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5CP00138B) [12174](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5CP00138B).
- [63] C. Gonzalez, H. B. Schlegel, J. Phys. [Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/j100377a021) 1990, 94, 5523  [5527.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/j100377a021)
- [64] P. E. M. Siegbahn, M. R. A. Blomberg, J. Chem. Theory [Comput.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ct401039h) 2014, 10, [268– 272.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ct401039h)
- [65] R. Z. Liao, P. E. M. Siegbahn, J. [Photochem. Photobiol.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2014.12.005) B 2015, 152, 162– [172.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2014.12.005)

[66] R. Z. Liao, X. C. Li, P. E. M. Siegbahn, [Eur. J. Inorg.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ejic.201300710) Chem. 2014, 728– 741.

Manuscript received: October 27, 2016

Revised: December 1, 2016

Accepted Article published: December 7, 2016 Final Article published: February 14, 2017