---
source: Lim 等 - 2023 - Energy‐Efficient and Self‐Powered Green Ammonia Synthesis by Electrochemical Nitrate Reduction Combi.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 21.164s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:10:37.992898Z
---

# **Energy-Efficient and Self-Powered Green Ammonia Synthesis by Electrochemical Nitrate Reduction Combined with Hydrazine Oxidation**

*Chaeeun Lim, Hyogyun Roh, Eun Ho Kim, Hangyeol Kim, Taiho Park, Donghwa Lee, and Kijung Yong\**

**To achieve the global goal of carbon neutrality, recently, emphasis has been placed on developing green ammonia production method to replace the Haber–Bosch process. Nitrate reduction reaction (NO3RR) has received considerable attention, especially for electrochemically producing ammonia from nitrate and simultaneously purifying wastewater. This study first demonstrates that the combination of NO3RR with hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) is an energy efficient green ammonia production method, which overcomes the sluggish water oxidation limitation. Tungsten phosphide (WP) nanowires (NWs) are prepared as cathode NO3RR electrocatalysts, which exhibit a high Faradaic efficiency in both neutral (≈93%) and alkaline (≈85%) media. Furthermore, they show a high bifunctional activity in anodic reactions and exhibit a low potential 0.024 V for generating a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in HzOR. The overall NO3RR-HzOR required an impressively low potential of 0.24 V for generating a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2; this potential is much lower than those required for NO3RR-OER (1.53 V) and NO3RR-UOR (1.31 V). A self-powered ammonia production system, prepared by assembling an NO3RR-HzOR with a perovskite solar cell, displays a high ammonia production rate of 1.44 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1. A single PV cell provides enough driving voltage in the PV-EC due to low required potential. This system facilitates unassisted green ammonia synthesis with a low energy consumption and also allows upcycling of wastewater to produce useful fuel.**

**1. Introduction**

Ammonia has traditionally been an important chemical and recently received considerable attention as a high-density hydrogen storage medium owing to its high hydrogen content (17.6 wt.%) and energy density (6.25 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1).[1] Currently, 100% of ammonia is produced via the Haber– Bosch process, which accounts for ≈1% of the global energy consumption because of the harsh reaction conditions (350–450 °C, 100–200 atm).[2,3] In addition, this process leads to the emission of around 1.4% of global greenhouse gases during the hydrogen feedstock production process.[4,5] Therefore, developing environment-friendly green ammonia production methods to replace the Haber– Bosch process is crucial to achieve the global goal of carbon neutrality.[6]

Recently, the electrochemical process has garnered significant attention as a green ammonia production method, because of its benign process conditions (room temperature and atmospheric pressures) and zero CO2 emission.[7] Nitrogen is used as a raw material in the electrochemical production of ammonia due to its atmospheric abundance. However, nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) exhibits a low efficiency, current density, and ammonia production rate, because nitrogen gas has

a limited solubility and high ionization energy, which originates from its nonpolar molecular structure with a strong triple bond (≈941 kJ mol<sup>−</sup>1). Recently, nitrate has emerged as an

C. Lim, H. Roh, K. Yong Surface Chemistry Laboratory of Electronic Materials (SCHEMA) Department of Chemical Engineering Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH) Pohang 37673, South Korea E-mail: kyong@postech.ac.kr C. Lim, H. Roh, H. Kim, T. Park, K. Yong Research Center for Carbon-zero Green Ammonia Cycling (RCCGAC) Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH) Pohang 37673, South Korea

E. H. Kim, D. Lee Computational Nano-Materials Design Laboratory (CNMD) Department of Material Science & Engineering Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH) Pohang 37673, South Korea H. Kim, T. Park Polymer Chemistry & Electronics Lab (PCEL) Department of Chemical Engineering Pohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH)

Pohang 37673, South Korea

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202304274

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202304274**

alternative nitrogen feedstock for green ammonia production.[8] Due to its relatively low chemical bond energy (204 kJ mol<sup>−</sup>1), nitrate reduction reaction (NO3RR) is expected to generate a high yield of ammonia.[9–11] However, most previous NO3RR studies mainly focused on wastewater purification for conversion into nitrogen,[12,13] and the significance of nitrate reduction in the production of green ammonia has only recently been emphasized.

In general, aqueous NO3RR proceeds with water oxidation, and the overall electrochemical reaction involves cathode reduction (NO3RR) and anode oxidation (oxygen evolution reaction (OER)). OER is a kinetically unfavorable sluggish process and requires a high standard oxidation potential (1.23 V vs RHE),[14] which inevitably increases the overall operation potential and thus lowers the energy efficiency of green ammonia production. Although various NO3RR studies have focused on developing efficient catalysts for cathodes,[15,16] they have limitations in energy efficiency due to the inherent requirement of a high potential for the anodic OER process.[17] Replacing OER with a low-potential oxidation process is an innovative method to enhance energy efficiency. According to several recent studies on the water-splitting process, anode reactions can be designed to reduce the required potential for OER; this method includes anodic reactions that involve the oxidation of small molecules, such as ethanol, hydrazine, urea, and ammonia.[18–20] Similarly, methanol, urea, and benzyl alcohol have also been applied to reduce the oxidation potential in NO3RR. However, such molecules show an insufficient effect on the oxidation potential in NO3RR.[21–23]

In the present study, we have newly combined NO3RR with hydrazine/urea oxidation to reduce cell potentials and enhance the energy efficiency of green ammonia production. Hydrazine/urea oxidation reactions (HzOR/UOR) have additional advantage in the environmental decontamination and wastewater purification because they decompose contaminants present in wastewater. We synthesized tungsten phosphide (WP) nanowires (NWs) by thermal evaporation/chemical vapor deposition and utilized them as a bifunctional catalyst for cathodic NO3RR and anodic OER/HzOR/UOR. Most previous studies on NO3RR employed Cu[17,22,24] or Fe[16,25–27]-based catalysts; by contrast, the use of W-based catalysts for electrochemical NO3RR has not yet been reported. Tungsten is known as a major element of enzymes that converts nitrate to nitrite in biochemistry.[28] In addition, phosphorous in metal phosphide is reportedly advantageous for hydrogen adsorption.[23] Accordingly, we designed WP NWs as an electrocatalyst to promote the reduction of nitrate to nitrite, the first reduction step in NO3RR, and facilitate the subsequent hydrogenation reaction. We achieved a maximum Faradaic efficiency (F.E.) of 93.0 ± 3.0% with a production yield of 1.4 ± 0.3 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at –0.5 V versus RHE under neutral conditions for the nitrate reactions. In alkaline environments, the WP NWs exhibited a maximum efficiency of 85.1 ± 5.9% with a production yield of 1.9 ± 0.4 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at −0.1 V versus RHE. In addition, these bifunctional catalysts exhibited a remarkably high performance in the anodic reactions for OER (1.54 V), UOR (1.38 V), and HzOR (0.024 V) to generate a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Particularly, the required cell potential with HzOR (0.24 V) was noticeably lower than those with OER (1.53 V) and UOR (1.31 V) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Finally, NO3RR-HzOR electrolysis with a perovskite photovoltaic (PV) cell was demonstrated as an unassisted and low-cost ammonia synthesis system, which produced 1.44 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of ammonia. These results indicate that WP NWs are promising catalysts for self-operating and lowpowered green ammonia generation systems.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of WP NWs as Bifunctional Electrocatalysts**

WP NWs were synthesized by a facile two-step process, i.e., thermal evaporation and chemical vapor deposition, in a tube furnace. First, tungsten oxide (WO) NWs were directly grown on Ni foam (NF) by thermal evaporation at 1050 °C (WO3 heating temperature) under vacuum. Then, these WO NWs were converted into WP NWs by an additional chemical vapor deposition of WO NWs with 1 g of NaH2PO2⋅H2O. The tube furnace was purged with Ar gas and heated to 300 and 800 °C in a two-zone furnace for 1 h. During the reaction (2NaH2PO2 → Na2HPO4 + PH3), NaH2PO2 decomposed to form phosphine (PH3) gas, which is known as a strong phosphorization agent.

The surface structure and morphology of the WO and WP NWs were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and low-resolution transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The SEM and TEM results of the WO NWs catalyst unveiled a bunch of NWs (**Figure 1**a–d) with an average thickness of several micrometers and lengths of several hundred micrometers. Energy-dispersive spectrometry (EDS) analysis confirmed a uniform distribution of W and O elements in the catalysts (Figure 1b; Figure S1a, Supporting Information). Highresolution TEM (HRTEM) analysis of the WO NWs revealed a lattice spacing of 0.37 nm, which was consistent with that of W18O49 (0 1 0). Figure 1e–h reveals that the NW structure is maintained after phosphorization. EDS mapping confirmed an even distribution of the W and P elements (Figure 1f; Figur S1b, Supporting Information). The HRTEM image (Figure 1h) indicated a lattice spacing of 0.42 nm, which was consistent with that of the WP (1 0 1). To obtain the optimal sample, phosphorization temperatures of 700–900 °C were tested and their analysis results are provided in Supporting Information (Figures S2 and S3, Supporting Information). The sample synthesized at 700 °C was not fully phosphorized, exhibiting a low percentage of phosphorus in EDS elemental mapping results of Figure S2a (Supporting Information). On the other hand, the synthesis at 900 °C causes partial surface structure collapse as shown in Figure S2b (Supporting Information). NO3RR experiments were performed with the prepared samples and the results are provided in Figure S3 (Supporting Information). According to the results, the catalyst phosphorized at 800 °C exhibited the highest Faradaic Efficiency of 85.1 ± 5.89% and the highest ammonia yield of 1.97 ± 0.35 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1. In contrast, the catalyst phosphorized at 700 °C showed significantly lower Faradaic Efficiency (12.38 ± 1.39%) and ammonia Yield (0.61 ± 0.19 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1). The catalyst phosphorized at 900 °C exhibited an efficiency of 67.32 ± 2.93%, but still had a low ammonia yield of 0.85 ± 0.13 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1.

The crystallinity of the as-prepared samples was investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis (**Figure 2**a). Crystals of W18O49 were observed on WO/NF after the WO3 powder thermal evaporation process (confirmed by reference, JCPDS No. 084– 1516). The most intense peak observed at 23.6° corresponded

**Figure 1.** a,e) SEM and c,g) Low-resolution TEM images of the WO and WP NWs. b,f) EDS elemental mappings of the WO and WP NWs, respectively. d,h) HRTEM images and the corresponding diffraction patterns (insets) of the WO and WP NWs, respectively.

to W18O49 (0 1 0). After phosphorization, the W18O49 peaks disappeared, and new diffraction peaks appeared, which were wellmatched with those of the WP reference (JCPDS No. 29–1364). The most intense peak, observed at 31.2°, originated from WP (1 0 1). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was conducted to identify the chemical binding states of WO/NF and WP/NF. The tungsten peaks of WO/NF and WP/NF were deconvoluted for W 4f7/2, W 4f5/2, and W 5p3/2 as shown in Figure 2b. The main peaks of WO/NF showed dual binding states of W<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> and W5<sup>+</sup>. In contrast, WP/NF exhibited an additional W–P binding peak at 31.6 eV. The phosphorous peaks of WP/NF clearly indicated the presence of the phosphate (P–O) bonding at 134.5 eV and metal phosphide (P-M) bonding at 130.6 and 129.6 eV, which confirmed the successful synthesis of the WP sample (Figure 2c). As expected, no phosphorous peak was observed in the profile of WO/NF. The O 1s spectrum of WO/NF showed a main lattice oxygen state (W-O) with hydroxyl binding, whereas the profile of WP/NF revealed the presence of P-O bonding at 533.1 eV, thereby confirming the successful synthesis of the WP sample (Figure 2d).

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Cathodic Reaction: NO3RR Activity of WP NWs**

The electrochemical NO3RR was carried out under an ambient temperature and pressure in a customized H-cell. To test the activity of the catalysts under various pH conditions, two types of electrolytes (neutral and alkaline) were prepared. Industrial wastewater and textile wastewater have a pH range of 7 to 8, indicating a neutral environment. However, in some specific cases of low-level nuclear wastewater, it exhibits an alkaline PH. Initially, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) analysis was conducted using 0.45 M K2SO4 and 1 M KOH as the neutral and alkaline electrolytes, respectively, and 0.1 m KNO3 was used as a nitrate source for the NO3RR. **Figure 3**a,d shows the LSV curves of the WO/NF and WP/NF catalysts for neutral and alkaline NO3RRs, respectively. These results show that in both neutral and alkaline conditions, the current densities generated by the WP/NF are higher than those generated by the WO/NF, indicating that the catalytic activity of the WP/NF for NO3RR is higher than that of the WO/NF. The current densities recorded in 1 m KOH are significantly higher than those recorded in 0.45 m K2SO4, indicating that compared to neutral electrolytes, alkaline electrolytes provide a higher ion conductivity and more concentrated ions for promoting electrochemical reactions.

To evaluate the NO3RR performances, two parameters were compared: Faradaic efficiency (F.E.) and ammonia production rate (NH4 <sup>+</sup> yield). A chrono-amperometric (*I–t*) analysis, in which the current generated upon the application of a fixed voltage was measured, was carried out for one hour at each voltage. Figures S4 and S5 (Supporting Information) display the current profiles recorded for 1 h at each applied voltage. By comparing the current profiles measured at the given voltage, we found the current density generated by WP/NF was higher than that of WO/NF in both neutral and alkaline electrolytes; this result reconfirmed that the electrochemical activity of WP/NF was better than that of WO/NF. The concentration of ammonia in the electrolyte produced over 1-h period was measured using the well-known quantitative analysis method for ammonia, i.e., the colorimetric indophenol test (Figure S6, Supporting Information).

The F.E. was calculated based on the concentration of ammonia produced and the total charge applied for 1 h. Figure 3b indicates that in neutral conditions, WP/NF generated F.E.

**Figure 2.** a) XRD spectra of the NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. XPS profiles of b) W 4f c) P 2p, and d) O 1s for the WP/NF and WO/NF samples.

of 93 ± 3.0% at −0.5 V versus RHE, whereas WO/NF generated a comparatively low F.E. of 76.8 ± 8.1% at −0.4 V versus RHE. This effect was also observed under alkaline conditions. Under alkaline conditions (Figure 3e), WP achieved 85.1 ± 5.9% at −0.1 V versus RHE, whereas WO generated a low efficiency 75.3 ± 2.2% at −0.1 V versus RHE (Figure 3e; Figures S7 and S8, Supporting Information). Figures S7 and S8 (Supporting Information) show the presence of the well-known by-product in forms of ion NO2 <sup>−</sup> and its related F.E. WP/NF exhibited lower NO2 <sup>−</sup> production compared to WO/NF. Also. gas-phase by-products were additionally analyzed using gas chromatography and gas FT-IR analysis. As presented in Figures S9 and S10 (Supporting Information), no gas products were detected after NO3RR. Furthermore, in alkaline conditions, the F.E. of WP/NF decreased after reaching its maximum value, when a greater negative potential was applied. This decrease in the F.E. of WP/NF can be attributed to the well-known competing reaction of hydrogen evolution. The same tendency was observed for WO/NF at high applied potentials.

The ammonia yields per unit time and unit area were calculated at each voltage, under both neutral and alkaline conditions, based on the measured concentration of the produced ammonia as shown in Figure 3c,f. In both cases, the ammonia yield increased with the increasing applied potential, and the yield exhibited by WP/NF was higher than that shown by WO/NF. At the voltage, where the highest F.E. of WP/NF was obtained,

Figure 3. a) LSV curves for the NO<sub>3</sub>RR with 0.1 M KNO<sub>3</sub> in 0.45 M K<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> (neutral electrolyte) on WO/NF and WP/NF. b,c) Faradaic efficiency and ammonia yield at each applied potential with 0.1 M KNO3 in 0.45 M K2SO4 (neutral electrolyte). d) LSV curves for the NO3RR with 0.1 M KNO3 in 1 M KOH (alkaline electrolyte) on WO/NF and WP/NF. e,f) Faradaic efficiency and ammonia yield at each applied potential with 0.1 M KNO₃ in 1 M KOH (alkaline electrolyte). g) <sup>1</sup>H-NMR results obtained with 0.1 m <sup>14</sup>N-KNO<sub>3</sub> and <sup>15</sup>N-KNO<sub>3</sub> in 1 m KOH (alkaline electrolyte) for WP/NF h) Faradaic efficiency of the control experiments based on both isotope NMR test and colorimetric indophenol test. i) Stability test for the NO<sub>3</sub>RR with 0.1 M KNO<sub>3</sub> in 1 м КОН (alkaline electrolyte) on WP/NF.

WP/NF generated ammonia at rates of 1.4  $\pm$  0.3 (-0.5 V vs RHE) and 1.9  $\pm$  0.4 (-0.1 V vs RHE) mg cm<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in neutral and alkaline electrolytes, respectively. Conversely, WO/NF generated ammonia at rates of 0.4  $\pm$  0.2 (-0.4 V vs RHE) and 0.5  $\pm$ 0.1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in neutral and alkaline electrolytes, respectively. To study the applicability of current results to wastewater treatment, we have performed NO3RR experiments on quasiwastewater. A sample of wastewater contains various anions, such as sulfate (SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>), chloride (Cl<sup>-</sup>), bicarbonate (HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>), and nitrate (NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>). First, we prepared lab-made wastewater with referenced concentrations in neutral and alkaline solution. [39] In the following experiments, to match the concentration of the reactant (nitrate source) used in the original experiment, we prepared wastewater with all anions at 100 times concentration in reference paper. The NO<sub>3</sub>RR test results are provided in supporting information (Figure S11, Supporting Information). According to

the experiment results with the model wastewater at low and high concentrations of anions, the WP NWs exhibit slightly low but comparable Faraday efficiency compared to the original data. These results well demonstrate that our catalyst exhibits competitive activity in quasi-wastewater treatment. Our research on WP revealed that NO<sub>3</sub>RR exhibits distinct advantage in both neutral and alkaline condition. The most notable advantage of neutral condition is its high Faraday efficiency, exceeding 90 percent. In contrast, alkaline condition demonstrates high current density and production rate, allowing for the generation of a significant amount of ammonia with less energy.

Next, isotope experiments were carried out to exclude the effects of contamination from other sources on the ammonia quantification. When <sup>14</sup>N-KNO<sub>3</sub> was used as the nitrate source, three peaks, with 55 Hz intervals, between 7.0 and 7.3 ppm were observed in the nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra;

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2023, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20204274 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. Theoretical calculation of  $\Delta G_{ads}(NO_3^-)$  at the WO<sub>3</sub> and WP surface. a,b) Top view (top) and side view (bottom) of WO<sub>3</sub> (001) and WP (010) surface. c) Calculated adsorption energy of nitrate ( $\Delta G_{ads}(NO_3^-)$ ) and d) charge transferred from surface to nitrate at the WO<sub>3</sub> and WP surface.

these peaks can be assigned to <sup>14</sup>NH<sub>4</sub>+<sup>[5]</sup> (Figure 3g). Similarly, when the same experiment was conducted using <sup>15</sup>N-KNO<sub>3</sub>, two peaks, with 73 Hz interval, between the previously observed three peaks were detected; these two peaks correspond to <sup>15</sup>NH<sub>4</sub>+. This result confirmed that nitrates were the sole sources for ammonia production in the current experiments. Control experiments, carried out without nitrate, further confirmed zero ammonia production occurs in the absence of nitrate (Figure 3h; Figure S12, Supporting Information). Colorimetric indophenol and <sup>1</sup>H-NMR tests confirmed that ammonia was detected only when a nitrate source was applied. For a more rigorous quantitative analysis, ammonia production was quantified using an isotopic nitrate. The calibration curve representing the area ratio of maleic acid to the concentration used exhibited a good linearity in the <sup>1</sup>H -NMR results (Figure S13, Supporting Information). For the  $^{15}\mathrm{N}$  ammonia production, the <sup>1</sup>H -NMR value was within the acceptable error range compared to the <sup>14</sup>N ammonia production measured in the colorimetric method. The calculated F.E. also showed a value within the error range. Finally, the durability of the NO<sub>3</sub>RR process was tested by repetitive reaction cycles; not only a constant current density but also F.E and ammonia yield were maintained for five cycles, and the duration for each cycle was 10 h (Figure S14, Supporting Information). An initial current drop was repetitively observed in the early stage in each run during the cycle test. This trend can be explained by 1) the decrease in NO<sub>3</sub> concentration and 2) change in the electrolyte pH due to ammonia production, according to a previous reported. However, the current density returned to its initial value with a fresh electrolyte recharge (with a similar trend), indicating a good stability of the catalyst (Figure 3i). In addition, SEM and XRD of the WP/NF after 30 hours of NO<sub>3</sub>RR exhibit no changes in the nanowire structure and crystallinity of WP (Figure S15a,c, Supporting Information).

## 2.3. Theoretical analysis for NO<sub>3</sub>RR Activity: Adsorption Reaction

We performed theoretical analysis for WO and WP surfaces for understanding a critical reaction step in NO<sub>3</sub>RR, which is the adsorption reaction analysis of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> on both surfaces. Firstprinciples density functional theory (DFT) calculations were employed to understand different NO<sub>3</sub>RR performances between WO/NF and WP/NF catalysts. We first constructed slab systems to investigate interactions between nitrate and the surface of NWs. Since HRTEM analysis (Figure 1d-h) identified (001) and (010) planes as the main exposed face of WO<sub>3</sub> NWs and WP NWs, WO<sub>3</sub> (001) surface and WP (010) surface were modeled. For WO<sub>3</sub> (001) surface, the topmost layer was terminated with half terminal oxygen, which has a lower surface energy than WO2 or O termination (Table S1 and Figure S16, Supporting Information). In the case of WP (010) surface, only one type of WP termination exists. (See Figure S17, Supporting Information). Next, we look at the adsorption of NO<sub>3</sub> on WO<sub>3</sub> (001) and WP (010) surface since it has been reported that the adsorption of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> plays a crucial role in the whole NO<sub>3</sub>RR process.<sup>[29]</sup> Figure 4a,b shows the top and side views of adsorption structure of NO<sub>3</sub> on WO<sub>3</sub> (001) surface and WP (010) surface. NO<sub>3</sub> binds with one W atom on WO<sub>3</sub> (001) surface, while bridges with two W atoms on WP (010) surface. Also, on WP (010) surface, all W atoms are exposed, whereas on WO<sub>3</sub> (001) surface, half of W atoms are covered by oxygen atoms, and the remaining W atoms are placed below surface O atoms. Thus, we expect that WP (010) surface can show stronger adsorption with NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> than WO<sub>3</sub> (001) surface. We further calculate the adsorption energy of  $NO^{3-}$  ( $\Delta G_{ads}(NO_3^-)$ ) on  $WO_3$  (001) and WP (010) surface to confirm our structural interpretation. Detailed methodology to obtain the adsorption energy is provided in Supporting Information. Our DFT calculations predict that

Δ*G*ads(NO3 <sup>−</sup>) is 0.94 eV on WO3 (001) and −1.60 eV on WP (010) at −0.1 V versus RHE (Figure 4c). Negative value represents that the adsorption is an exothermic reaction and so energetically stable. Thus, we confirm that NO3 <sup>−</sup> can show stronger adsorption on WP (010) surface. The charge transfer analysis based on Bader charge[30] also confirms that NO3 <sup>−</sup> can have stronger interaction with WP (010) than WO3 (001); the amount of charge transferred from surface to NO3 <sup>−</sup> is 0.77 e<sup>−</sup> for WP (010) and 0.60 e<sup>−</sup> for WO3 (001) (Figure 4d). Considering this in connection with electrochemical results, it can be inferred that WP/NF has stronger nitrate adsorption, which benefits multi-electron reactions. As a result, WP/NF shows higher efficiency in generating ammonia with enhanced yield, which requires the participation of 8 electrons. On the other hand, the two-electron reaction, generating nitrite, is more prominently generated in WO/NF.

#### **2.4. Electrocatalytic Anodic Reaction: Comparison of OER, UOR, and HzOR**

As a counter-electrochemical reaction of the cathodic NO3RR, the anodic reaction activitie of WP/NF were tested by measuring electrochemical property. Three anodic reactions were compared in the current study; oxygen evolution reaction (OER), urea oxidation reaction (UOR), and hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR). OER, UOR, and HzOR activities were examined for bare NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF by conducting reactions in a three-electrode electrochemical cell with graphite (counter electrode) and Hg/HgO (reference electrode). The obtained results were calibrated to a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) with eliminating Ohmic resistance by iR correction. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) data were acquired with an equivalent circuit consisting of the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct), solution resistance (*R*s), and constant phase element (CPE) (Figure S18, Supporting Information).

First, the OER catalytic activity was evaluated by measuring LSV curves in 1 M KOH (alkaline electrolyte) for NF, WO/NF, WP/NF samples (**Figure 5**a). Comparing the required potential for 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, WP/NF shows the lowest value of 1.535 V, while the WO/NF and NF show higher potentials of 1.634 and 1.628 V, respectively. In Figure 5b, the Tafel slopes are compared to evaluate the kinetic energy of OER. WP/NF exhibits the lowest Tafel slope (50.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1); for WO/NF and NF, the Tafel slope values are 73.1 and 74.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1. The EIS analysis was conducted to study the kinetic charge transfer activity of the OER at the electrode/electrolyte interface (Figure S19, Supporting Information). The EIS Nyquist plot of WP/NF shows a smaller radius size than those of WO/NF and NF, indicating lower charge transfer resistance (Rct) of WP/NF. The OER stability of WP/NF was tested by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and chrono-potentiometric (*V-t*) analyses. The potential showed a steady value at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 20 h during the *V–t* test (Figure 5c). The *CV* stability test shows almost identical curves after 1000 cycles. The high OER activity of WP/NF can also be explained based on their electrochemical surface areas (ECSAs). The ECSA values of NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF are determined from the CV results obtained at various scan rates Figure S20a–c. The obtained Cdl values of NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF are 1.37, 5.38, and 59.08 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively (Figure S20d, Supporting Information). The highest ECSA of WP/NF can be attributed to its large reactive surface area, which results from the large number of active sites exposed on the NW structure.

The electro-oxidation of urea was performed using a typical human urine concentration (0.33 m urea) in alkaline electrolyte. The resultant LSV curves shown in Figure 5d compare the UOR catalytic activities of NF, WO/NF, WP/NF. Compared to bare NF and WO/NF, WP/NF demonstrated an enhanced activity with a lower potential requirement of 1.384 V for producing 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. NF and WO/NF exhibited higher potentials of 1.404 and 1.486 V, respectively. The Tafel slope of WP/NF exhibits the lowest value of 15.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1; for WO/NF and NF, we obtain 229.7 and 46.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, as seen in Figure 5e. The EIS Nyquist plot of WP/NF for UOR shows a smaller radius size than WO/NF and NF (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The UOR stability of WP/NF was tested, and Figure 5f shows a highly stable 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density for over 20 h (*V–t test*) with an almost identical curve after 1000 cycles of CV test.

Finally, the electro-oxidation of hydrazine was performed using 0.1 m hydrazine in alkaline electrolyte. The obtained LSV curves exhibited HzOR catalytic activity of NF, WO/NF, WP/NF (Figure 5g). The required potential for 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was 0.024 V for WP/NF, which is low compared to those of WO/NF (0.092 V) and NF (0.183 V). Notably, these required potentials are much lower compared to those for OER and UOR. The Tafel slope of WP/NF exhibits a low value (35.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) that those of with WO/NF (54.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and NF (97.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) as shown in Figure 5h. WP/NF exhibits the outstanding HzOR activity, providing a large surface reaction area and fast kinetic properties. The EIS analysis of WP/NF for HzOR confirms a smaller charge transfer resistance compared to those of WO/NF and NF (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The HzOR stability of WP/NF was tested by CV test and *V-t* analysis, indicating high durability (Figure 5i). In addition, SEM and XRD of the WP/NF after 30 hours of HzOR exhibits no changes in the nanowire structure and crystallinity of WP (Figure S15b,c, Supporting Information). These results indicate a high ability of the anodic HzOR in replacing OER for lowering power consumption for ammonia synthesis by NO3RR.

### **2.5. Overall Reaction Systems: Comparison of NO3RR-OER, NO3RR-UOR, and NO3RR-HzOR**

A two-electrode overall reaction system in an H-cell was tested by coupling NO3RR with OER, UOR, and HzOR. **Figure 6**a schematically depicts the reaction mechanisms of three systems: NO3RR-OER, NO3RR-UOR, and NO3RR-HzOR. The required cell potential of WP/NF to generate 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is lower than those of WO/NF and NF in each system. In NO3RR-OER, cell potential of WP/NF (1.53 V) is lower than those of WO/NF (1.61 V) and NF (1.72 V), as shown in Figure S23 (Supporting Information). NO3RR-UOR also exhibited a lower cell potential of WP/NF (1.31 V) for 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density compared to those of WO/NF (1.45 V) and NF (1.62 V), as shown in Figure S24 (Supporting Information). The NO3RR-HzOR showed the biggest difference between WP/NF (0.24 V), WO/NF (1.06 V) and NF (1.14 V) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density (Figure S25, Supporting Information).

**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves in OER with 1.0 m KOH solution for NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. b) Corresponding Tafel plots for NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. c) Chrono-potentiometric analysis at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for the OER of WP/NF. Inset of c) CV curves for WP/NF over 1000 cycles of the OER. d) LSV curves in UOR with 0.33 m Urea/1.0 m KOH solution for NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. e) Corresponding Tafel plots for NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. f) Chronopotentiometric analysis at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for the UOR of WP/NF. Inset of f) CV curves for WP/NF over 1000 cycles of the UOR. g) LSV curves in UOR with 0.1 m Hydrazine/1.0 m KOH solution for NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. h) Corresponding Tafel plots for NF, WO/NF, and WP/NF. i) Chrono-potentiometric analysis at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for the HzOR of WP/NF. Inset of i) CV curves for WP/NF over 1000 cycles of the HzOR.

Figure 6b directly compares the LSV curves for WP/NF-WP/NF in two-electrode configuration with NO3RR-OER, NO3RR-UOR, and NO3RR-HzOR. NO3RR-HzOR requires a much lower operation potential than NO3RR-UOR and NO3RR-OER. The required potential to generate 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is 0.34 V for NO3RR-HzOR, which is low compared to that of NO3RR-UOR (1.37 V) and NO3RR-OER (1.60 V). These results indicate that NO3RR-HzOR has high activity with a low-powered electrolysis (Figure S26–S28, Supporting Information). An additional advantage of this system is that it generates ammonia and also decomposes contaminants for water treatment at the same time.

To assess the power required for operating the overall reaction systems, the potential profiles were monitored for NO3RR-HzOR and NO3RR-OER by measuring the cathode-anode potentials to generate a constant current of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 6c). The WP/NF electrode was equally applied for both cathode and anode reactions in two systems. The cathodic potential of NO3RR was similar for both NO3RR-HzOR and NO3RR-OER. However, a clear difference in anodic potential was observed: ∼ 0.1 V (HzOR) and 1.5 V (OER) versus Ag/AgCl. These results give remarkable differences in the cell potential requirements for NO3RR-HzOR (1.1 V) and NO3RR-OER (2.4 V). The remarkably low required potential of NO3RR-HzOR suggests its high potential as an alternative green ammonia production way with high energy efficiency (Figure S29, Supporting Information). Figure 6d compares the energy consumption (kW hr kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> NH3) [31] and F.E. (%) of various electrochemical ammonia production methods. Energy consumption is closely related to the cost of ammonia production, an important factor for assessing the electrochemical ammonia synthesis as a green process alternative to the traditional

Figure 6. a) Schematic illustration of NO<sub>3</sub>RR-OER, NO<sub>3</sub>RR-UOR, and NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR. b) LSV curves for WP/NF-WP/NF in two-electrode configuration with NO₂RR-OER, NO₂RR-UOR, and NO₂RR-HzOR. c) the potential profile for cathode and anode reaction in NO₂RR-HzOR and NO₂RR-OER. d) Comparison of Faradaic efficiency and energy consumption of various electrochemical ammonia production methods.

Haber-Bosch process. Compared to nitrogen reduction reaction (NRR) by either aqueous reaction<sup>[32–35]</sup> or Li-mediated one, <sup>[36–38]</sup> the NO<sub>3</sub>RR shows higher F.E. and lower energy consumption (Table S2, Supporting Information). [15,16,22,23,25,39-43] This is due to the higher reactivity of nitrates compared to nitrogen gas as Nsource materials. Especially our NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR records the lowest energy consumption among NO<sub>3</sub>RR results with comparable F.E. although it shows still some deviation from the commercial Haber-Bosch process.

#### 2.6. Self-Powered Ammonia Production System: Coupling with a Perovskite Solar Cell

We suggest a self-powered ammonia production-waste water purification system by combining our NO<sub>2</sub>RR-HzOR system with a perovskite solar cell (PSC). PSCs have gained attention as a nextgeneration low-cost solar cell, applied as a power device in this work. Synthesized PSC produces an open-circuit voltage  $(V_{OC})$  of 1.15 V and a short-circuit current density ( $I_{SC}$ ) of 23.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under 1 Sun condition (100 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). Since the  $V_{\rm OC}$  of a PSC cannot provides a potential sufficient to drive a potential above ≈1.3 V for NO<sub>3</sub>RR-OER, two PSCs in a series structure are required to generate a sufficient photovoltage for operating the given system. In contrast, the NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR system can operate at much lower voltages, which enable operation with a single PSC. Figure 7a exhibits the I-V curves of the PSC and WP/NF(NO<sub>3</sub>RR)-WP/NF(HzOR) system. The theoretical operation point of the NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR and PSC combination device was calculated at 0.36 V and 23.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The actual operation point of our PV-EC system generates a current density of ≈23 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, indicating minimum energy loss in converting electricity to ammonia (Figure 7b). This current density generation corresponds to 1.44 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> of ammonia production rate based on the F.E. obtained in the electrolysis results (Figure S29, Supporting Information). Further, the stability was not degraded during an hour of operation. These results indicate the feasibility of realizing ammonia generation with low energy consumption.

In summary, the electrochemical NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR system connected to a PV cell can cycle both energy and chemicals as shown in Figure 7c. This cycle starts with nitrate and hydrazine discharged into wastewater from factories and farms. They can be supplied as reactants for the electrocatalytic NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR system. Electrochemical ammonia synthesis is then performed by nitrate reduction along with hydrazine oxidation driven by a PV cell. The ammonia generated by the self-power generation system can be supplied as a basic chemical and energy source for industrial applications and can also serve as a raw material for fertilizers in agriculture. Underground wastewater discharged from industries and farms contains nitrates and hydrazine, which can be recovered and used as raw materials.

#### 3. Conclusions

In conclusion, we presented a novel low-power-consuming ammonia production method based on the NO<sub>3</sub>RR-HzOR system.

**Figure 7.** a) *I–V* curves of the WP/NF(NO3RR)-WP/NF(HzOR) in a two-electrode configuration and perovskite solar cell, where the junction point indicates the ideal working current. b) Chrono-potentiometric of the unbiased PV-EC system combining WP/NF(NO3RR)-WP/NF(HzOR) with perovskite solar cell. c) Schematic illustration of cyclic electrochemical system with a PV cell for ammonia production based on NO3RR-HzOR system.

First, we synthesized WP NWs as bifunctional catalysts and confirmed the ability of these synthesized electrocatalysts to display effective performances in both cathodic and anodic reactions. WP/NF exhibited exceptionally high activities in NO3RR under various pH conditions. This catalyst achieved F.E. of 93 ± 3% and 85.1 ± 5.9%, with ammonia yields of 1.4 ± 0.3 and 1.9 ± 0.4 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1, in neutral and alkaline electrolytes, respectively. Moreover, the potential required by WP/NF to generate a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in HzOR (0.024 V) was lower than those required in OER (1.535 V) and UOR (1.384 V). The cell potential for the overall NO3RR-HzOR (0.24 V) was noticeably lower than those for the NO3RR-OER (1.53 V) and NO3RR-UOR (1.31 V) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Due to this low potential requirement, our NO3RR-HzOR system recorded the lowest energy consumption among all the NO3RR systems with comparable Faradaic efficiencies. Finally, a PV cell was used to form an unassisted NO3RR-HzOR system, which produced a current density of ≈23 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, leading to an ammonia production rate of 1.44 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1. These findings represent a significant advancement in green ammonia production through anodic reaction coupling, which lowers the energy consumption and allows self-operation using a PV-EC system. Also, it presents a useful upcycling way of wastewater to produce useful fuel.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

C.L. and H.R. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korea Government (MSIT) (NRF-2021R1A5A1084921, NRF-2021K1A4A8A02079226).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

## **Keywords**

ammonia production, hydrazine oxidation, nitrate reduction, photovoltaicelectrolysis, tungsten phosphide

Received: May 22, 2023 Revised: July 21, 2023

Published online: August 25, 2023

- [1] J. Choi, B. H. R. Suryanto, D. Wang, H. L. Du, R. Y. Hodgetts, F. M. Ferrero Vallana, D. R. MacFarlane, A. N. Simonov, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1.
- [2] R. Hawtof, S. Ghosh, E. Guarr, C. Xu, R. M. Sankaran, J. N. Renner, *Sci. Adv.* **2019**, *5*, 1.
- [3] W. Chen, X. Yang, Z. Chen, Z. Ou, J. Hu, Y. Xu, Y. Li, X. Ren, S. Ye, J. Qiu, J. Liu, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, 2300512.
- [4] P. H. van Langevelde, I. Katsounaros, M. T. M. Koper, *Joule.* **2021**, *5*, 290.
- [5] J. Zhao, X. Ren, X. Liu, X. Kuang, H. Wang, C. Zhang, Q. Wei, D. Wu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *452*, 139533.
- [6] J. Norskov, J. Chen, *Report, DOE Roundtable.* **2016**, 1.
- [7] S. Z. Andersen, V. Coli ˇ ´c, S. Yang, J. A. Schwalbe, A. C. Nielander, J. M. McEnaney, K. Enemark-Rasmussen, J. G. Baker, A. R. Singh, B. A. Rohr, M. J. Statt, S. J. Blair, S. Mezzavilla, J. Kibsgaard, P. C. K. Vesborg, M. Cargnello, S. F. Bent, T. F. Jaramillo, I. E. L. Stephens, J. K. Nørskov, I. Chorkendorff, *Nature.* **2019**, *570*, 504.
- [8] S. Han, H. Li, T. Li, F. Chen, R. Yang, Y. Yu, B. Zhang, *Nature catalysis.* **2023**, *6*, 402.
- [9] N. Zhang, G. Zhang, P. Shen, H. Zhang, D. Ma, K. Chu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2211537.
- [10] K. Chen, Z. Ma, X. Li, J. Kang, D. Ma, K. Chu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2209890.
- [11] X. Deng, Y. Yang, L. Wang, X. Z. Fu, J. L. Luo, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 1.
- [12] F. Zhao, J. Xin, M. Yuan, L. Wang, X. Wang, *Water Res.* **2022**, *209*, 117889.
- [13] M. A. Kanafi, M. Baghdadi, N. Mehrdadi, *J. Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *39*, 1.
- [14] D. Kim, Y. Jeong, H. Roh, C. Lim, K. Yong, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 10909.
- [15] Z. Wu, M. Karamad, X. Yong, Q. Huang, D. A. Cullen, P. Zhu, C. Xia, Q. Xiao, M. Shakouri, F. Chen, J. Yoon, T. Kim, Y. Xia, K. Heck, Y. Hu, M. S. Wong, Q. Li, I. Gates, S. Siahrostami, H. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2870.
- [16] P. Li, Z. Jin, Z. Fang, G. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3522.
- [17] R. Daiyan, T. Tran-Phu, P. Kumar, K. Iputera, Z. Tong, J. Leverett, M. H. A. Khan, A. Asghar Esmailpour, A. Jalili, M. Lim, A. Tricoli, R. S. Liu, X. Lu, E. Lovell, R. Amal, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3588.
- [18] D. Kim, Y. Jeong, H. Roh, C. Lim, K. Yong, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2022**, *9*, 10909.
- [19] H. Roh, C. Lim, D. Kim, T. Park, K. Yong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *610*, 155520.
- [20] H. Roh, H. Choi, J. S. Kim, H. Shin, T. Park, K. Yong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *606*, 154951.
- [21] S. Nangan, Y. Ding, A. Zaki, Y. Liu, Z. Wen, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2021**, *286*, 119892.

- [22] Z. Niu, S. Fan, X. Li, P. Wang, Z. Liu, J. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *450*, 138343.
- [23] S. Ye, Z. Chen, G. Zhang, W. Chen, C. Peng, X. Yang, L. Zheng, Y. Li, X. Ren, H. Cao, D. Xue, J. Qiu, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 760.
- [24] W. Jung, J. Jeong, Y. Chae, H. Lee, Y. Ko, H. Chae, H. Oh, U. Lee, D. Ki, B. Min, H. Shin, Y. Hwang, D. Won, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2022**, *10*, 23760.
- [25] J. Li, Y. Zhang, C. Liu, L. Zheng, E. Petit, K. Qi, Y. Zhang, H. Wu, W. Wang, A. Tiberj, X. Wang, M. Chhowalla, L. Lajaunie, R. Yu, D. Voiry, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2108316.
- [26] X. Xu, X. Liu, J. Xu, J. Zhou, X. Sun, D. Wu, C. Zhang, X. Ren, Q. Wei, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *437*, 135417.
- [27] X. Xu, X. Liu, J. Zhao, D. Wu, Y. Du, T. Yan, N. Zhang, X. Ren, Q. Wei, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *606*, 1374.
- [28] S. De Vries, M. Momcilovic, M. J. F. Strampraad, J. P. Whitelegge, *Biochemistry.* **2010**, *49*, 9911.
- [29] H. Niu, Z. Zhang, X. Wang, X. Wan, C. Shao, Y. Guo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2008533.
- [30] W. Tang, E. Sanville, G. Henkelman, *J. Phys. Condens. Matter.* **2009**, *21*, 084204.
- [31] H. Jiang, G. Chen, O. Savateev, J. Xue, L. Ding, Z. Liang, M. Antonietti, H. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 13.
- [32] K. Chu, J. Wang, Y. Liu, Q. Li, Y.-l. Guo, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2020**, *8*, 7117.
- [33] Q. Qin, Y. Zhao, M. Schmallegger, T. Heil, J. Schmidt, R. Walczak, G. Gescheidt-demner, H. Jiao, M. Oschatz, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 13101.
- [34] H. Su, L. Chen, Y. Chen, R. Si, Y. Wu, X. Wu, Z. Geng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20411.
- [35] M. Yuan, Q. Li, J. Zhang, J. Wu, T. Zhao, Z. Liu, L. Zhou, H. He, B. Li, G. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 21465.
- [36] B. H. R. Suryanto, K. Matuszek, J. Choi, R. Y. Hodgetts, H. Du, J. M. Bakker, C. S. M. Kang, P. V. Cherepanov, A. N. Simonov, D. R. Macfarlane, *Science.* **2021**, *1191*, 1187.
- [37] K. Kim, J. Lee, D. Kim, C. Yoo, W. Choi, *ChemSusChem.* **2018**, *11*, 120.
- [38] J. Ma, D. Bao, J. Ma, D. Bao, M. Shi, J. Yan, X. Zhang, *Chem.* **2017**, *2*, 525.
- [39] R. Zhang, Y. Guo, S. Zhang, D. Chen, Y. Zhao, Z. Huang, L. Ma, P. Li, Q. Yang, G. Liang, C. Zhi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103872.
- [40] J. Zhu, Q. Xue, Y. Xue, Y. Ding, F. Li, P. Jin, P. Chen, Y. Chen, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2020**, *12*, 14064.
- [41] R. Zhang, S. Zhang, Y. Guo, C. Li, J. Liu, Z. Huang, Y. Zhao, Y. Li, C. Zhi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3024.
- [42] Y. Guo, R. Zhang, S. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Q. Yang, Z. Huang, B. Dong, C. Zhi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3938.
- [43] J. Yang, H. Qi, A. Li, X. Liu, X. Yang, S. Zhang, Q. Zhao, Q. Jiang, Y. Su, L. Zhang, J. Li, Z. Tian, W. Liu, A. Wang, T. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 12062.