---
source: Liu 等 - 2015 - Scalable Synthesis of Efficient Water Oxidation Catalysts Insights into the Activity of Flame‐Made.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 103.332s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:12:21.327705Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201500704

# Scalable Synthesis of Efficient Water Oxidation Catalysts: Insights into the Activity of Flame-Made Manganese Oxide Nanocrystals

Guanyu Liu,<sup>[a]</sup> Jeremy Hall,<sup>[b]</sup> Noushin Nasiri,<sup>[a]</sup> Thomas Gengenbach,<sup>[c]</sup> Leone Spiccia,<sup>[d]</sup> Mun Hon Cheah,<sup>[e]</sup> and Antonio Tricoli<sup>\*[a]</sup>

Chemical energy storage by water splitting is a promising solution for the utilization of renewable energy in numerous currently impracticable needs, such as transportation and high temperature processing. Here, the synthesis of efficient ultrafine Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> water oxidation catalysts with tunable specific surface area is demonstrated by a scalable one-step flame-synthesis process. The water oxidation performance of these flamemade structures is compared with pure Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub>, obtained by post-calcination of as-prepared Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (115 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), and commercial iso-structural polymorphs, probing the effect of the manganese oxidation state and synthetic route. The

structural properties of the manganese oxide nanoparticles were investigated by XRD, FTIR, high-resolution TEM, and XPS. It is found that these flame-made nanostructures have substantially higher activity, reaching up to 350% higher surface-specific turnover frequency (0.07  $\mu\text{mol}_{O_2}\,\text{m}^{-2}\,\text{s}^{-1}$ ) than commercial nanocrystals (0.02  $\mu\text{mol}_{O_2}\,\text{m}^{-2}\,\text{s}^{-1}$ ), and production of up to 0.33  $\text{mmol}_{O_2}\,\text{mol}_{\text{Mn}}^{-1}\,\text{s}^{-1}$ . Electrochemical characterization confirmed the high water oxidation activity of these catalysts with an initial current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  achieved with overpotentials between 0.35 and 0.50 V in 1 m NaOH electrolyte.

#### Introduction

Solar, wind and, in general, electrical energy storage through the synthesis of renewable carbon-free fuels, such as hydrogen, has extensive industrial potential. Efficient large-scale production of hydrogen is hindered by the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). This is the first, highly energy-demanding step of

[a] G. Liu, N. Nasiri, Dr. A. Tricoli Nanotechnology Research Laboratory Research School of Engineering The Australian National University Canberra, 2001 (Australia) E-mail: antonio.tricoli@anu.edu.au

[b] J. Hall

Research School of Chemistry

The Australian National University

Canberra, 2001 (Australia)

[c] Dr. T. Gengenbach
Division of Materials Science and Engineering
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO)
Bayview Avenue, Clayton, VIC, 3168 (Australia)

[d] Prof. L. SpicciaSchool of ChemistryARC Centre of Excellence for Electromaterials ScienceMonash UniversityMelbourne, 3800 (Australia)

[e] Dr. M. H. Cheah Research School of Biology The Australian National University Canberra, 2001 (Australia)

Supporting Information for this article is available on the WWW under http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201500704.

This publication is part of a Special Issue on the "FutureEnergy" conference in Sydney, Australia. To view the complete issue, visit: http://online-library.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.v8.17/issuetoc.

water-splitting that requires extraction of four electrons from two water molecules along with the formation of a O=O bond. To date, its efficient catalysis requires precious metals, such as Ir- and Ru-based compounds, that are too scarce for large-scale production.<sup>[1]</sup>

Non-precious materials such as Co, Fe, and Ni are currently investigated as alternative materials for water oxidation catalysis. Amongst those, Mn-based compounds have shown considerable potential. Mn is earth-abundant, inexpensive, and environmentally friendly. It is utilized in the Mn<sub>4</sub>CaO<sub>5</sub>(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>4</sub> oxygen evolving centers of the photosystem II, Mn and in energy conversion and storage technologies, such as metal-air batteries, fuel cells, and electrolyzers. Several Mn-compounds have shown high activity for both OER and oxygen reduction reactions (ORR) and self-healing manganese oxides are considered for development of robust and long-lasting catalyst systems.

Optimizing the water oxidation activity of manganese oxide compounds, as well as establishing scalable synthetic routes, is currently the focus of extensive research. [6,8] Active manganese oxide-based catalysts were reported throughout an extensive number of crystalline and amorphous structures varying in composition and oxidation states. For example, doped  $\rm K^I$ ,  $\rm Cd^{II}$ ,  $\rm Mg^{II}$  layered manganese oxides, [9] as well as  $\rm MnO_x$  nanostructures obtained by partial oxidation (corrosion) of MnO particles [10] have all demonstrated high activity for the OER. However, the catalytic mechanism and nature of the most active manganese oxide sites, as well as optimal surface composition and oxidation state, have not yet been identified. This is particularly challenging owing to the large number of Mn-polymorphs,

and the impact of the synthetic route on the surface composition, specific surface area (SSA), and morphology.

Flame synthesis is a scalable, low-cost synthetic route currently utilized for the commercial production of many nanoparticle commodities, such as fumed silica, carbon black, and TiO<sub>2</sub> pigments.<sup>[11]</sup> Synthesis of up to 1.1 kg h<sup>-1</sup> of nanocatalysts was already demonstrated using lab-scale flame spray-pyrolysis prototypes.<sup>[12]</sup> In the past two decades, its synthetic potential was expanded by the utilization of spray flames, [13] enabling synthesis and fine-tuning of complex metal oxide morphologies, such as anatase TiO2, [14] partially segregated Si:SnO2, [15] and tailored Sn<sub>1-x</sub>Ti<sub>x</sub>O<sub>2</sub> solid solutions. [16] Recently, it was applied to the one-step synthesis of tailored LiMn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> particles demonstrating potential for large-scale ultrafine manganese oxide production.[17] A major advantage is that flame-made primary particles are usually quasi-spherical, and the crystal structure and size can be separately controlled by process parameters, such as flame enthalpy[18] and dopants.[19]

Here, we present the characterization of the water-oxidation activity of high-temperature flame-made manganese oxide polymorphs. We investigate the structural properties and catalytic performance of nine quasi-spherical manganese oxides varying in crystal structure, specific surface area, and synthetic environment. We demonstrate the use of flame spray pyrolysis to produce in one-step highly pure, spinel-like Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (hausmannite) nanoparticles with controllable specific surface area. Dry post-processing conditions are identified to recrystallize the as-prepared Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles into pure layered Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> and bixbyite Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> while preserving similar quasi-spherical morphologies. The turnover frequencies (TOF) of these nanocrystalline catalysts, and commercial equivalents, are critically compared, providing an insight on the OER activity of hightemperature synthesized nanocrystalline surfaces, and an assessment of the impact of three main structural parameters, namely specific surface area, crystal structure, and poly-crystallinity, on the OER.

### **Results and Discussion**

Manganese oxide nanoparticles were synthesized by one-step flame spray pyrolysis of manganese(III) acetylacetonate [Mn(acac)<sub>3</sub>] solutions (Figure 1) and continuous filtration of the hot particle-laden aerosol. It was found that the effective Mnatom concentration fed into the gas-phase was the main parameter controlling the resulting particle size and specific surface area. This was separately adjusted from the production rate (Table 1) by varying the dispersion oxygen rate (Figure 1) at constant atomization pressure. Figure 2a shows the SSA of the synthetic manganese oxide powders as a function of the fed gas-phase Mn-concentration ([Mn]  $_{\mbox{\scriptsize gas}})$  and atomization pressure ( $\Delta P$ ). The SSA increased quasi-linearly from 30 to  $115 \text{ m}^2\text{g}^{-1}$  with decreasing [Mn]<sub>qas</sub> from 1.16 to 0.3 mм. Increasing the atomization pressure from 3 to 7 bar (1 bar = 0.1 MPa) did not have a significant impact on the resulting SSA, indicating effective precursor atomization and nanoparticle nucleation from a super-saturated manganese oxide vapor<sup>[20]</sup> (Figure 1). The drop in SSA with increasing [Mn]<sub>gas</sub> is Agglomeration

Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Crystallization

Coagulation

Condensation

Mn<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> Nucleation

Evaporation

Atomization

Figure 1. Optical image and schematic of one-step manganese oxide nanoparticle synthesis by flame spray pyrolysis of Mn(acac)<sub>3</sub> solutions.

| <b>Table 1.</b> Flame spray-pyrolysis (FSP) process parameters and as-prepared Mn <sub>3</sub> O <sub>4</sub> properties. <sup>[a]</sup> |                                     |                                         |                  |                                          |                          |                          |                                         |  |  |  |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------|--|--|--|--|
| [Mn] <sub>gas</sub><br>[mм]                                                                                                              | $L_{\rm R}$ [mL min <sup>-1</sup> ] | $O_{2-\Delta P}$ [L min <sup>-1</sup> ] | $\Delta P$ [bar] | SSA<br>[m <sup>2</sup> g <sup>-1</sup> ] | d <sub>BET</sub><br>[nm] | d <sub>XRD</sub><br>[nm] | d <sub>TEM</sub> <sup>[b]</sup><br>[nm] |  |  |  |  |
| 0.3                                                                                                                                      | 3                                   | 5                                       | 5                | 115                                      | 11                       | 12                       | 12                                      |  |  |  |  |
| 0.5                                                                                                                                      | 5                                   | 5                                       | 5                | 67                                       | 19                       | 16                       | 18                                      |  |  |  |  |
| 0.7                                                                                                                                      | 7                                   | 5                                       | 7                | 76                                       | 16                       | 16                       | 17                                      |  |  |  |  |
| 0.7                                                                                                                                      | 7                                   | 5                                       | 5                | 61                                       | 20                       | 19                       | 19                                      |  |  |  |  |
| 1.16                                                                                                                                     | 7                                   | 3                                       | 3                | 30                                       | 42                       | 22                       | 27                                      |  |  |  |  |

[a] Definitions: [Mn]<sub>gas</sub>=fed gas-phase Mn-concentration,  $L_R$ =precursor feed rate,  $O_{2-\Delta P}$ =dispersion  $O_2$ ,  $\Delta P$ =atomization pressure, SSA=specific surface area, d=the average crystal  $(d_{XRD})$ , TEM  $(d_{TEM})$ , and Sauter  $(d_{BET})$  mean diameters. [b] The calculation of  $d_{TEM}$  is as shown in Figure S6.

attributed to the resulting increase in primary particle growth by condensation and Brownian coagulation, as previously observed for  ${\rm SnO_2}^{[21]}$ 

Figure 2 b–e show the TEM images of the synthesized manganese oxide powders as a function of [Mn]<sub>gas</sub> and  $\Delta P$ . All the as-prepared manganese oxide powders showed a fractal-like structure made of partially sintered ultra-fine particles of few nanometers. The visible TEM primary particle size increased with increasing [Mn]<sub>gas</sub>, showing an apparent agglomerate densification above 0.5 mm. Increasing  $\Delta P$  from 5 to 7 bar at a concentration of 0.7 mm (Figure S4) did not have any notable effect on the agglomerate and particle morphology further indicating a homogenous gas-phase nucleation synthetic route. The primary particle morphology was quasi-spherical with hexagonally- and square-shaped structures matching well the Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> tetragonal crystal structure. EDX analysis revealed no measurable amount of Ni, Ru, or Co, and only trace concentra-

**Figure 2.** (a) Specific surface area (SSA) of the as-prepared manganese oxide powders as a function of the Mn concentration fed in the gas-phase ([Mn] $_{gas}$ ) for different atomization pressures ( $\Delta P$ ). (b–e) Transmission electron microscope images of the as-prepared Mn $_3O_4$  nano-powders as a function of [Mn] $_{gas}$  showing a consistent quasi-spherical particle morphology and a steadily increasing primary particle size.

tions of Fe (Figure S13). Most importantly, these results demonstrate the scalable flame-synthesis of ultra-fine manganese oxide nano-powders composed of quasi-spherical agglomerated primary particles with controllable specific surface area (Figure 2) by the rapid and continuous combustion of Mn(acac)<sub>3</sub> solutions (Figure 1). This enables a particle morphology-independent investigation of the water oxidation activity of manganese oxide as a function of crystal phase and sizes.

XRD analysis revealed that all the as-prepared powders (Figure S5) consisted of a spinel structure, confirming a pure hausmannite Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> composition. Increasing [Mn]<sub>gas</sub> did not affect the XRD spectra, but led to a continuous peak narrowing that indicates an increase in crystal size. FTIR analysis of the Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> samples confirmed these results, showing three main absorption bands (Figure S7) located between 400 and 650 cm<sup>-1</sup>. The spectrum is very similar to that reported by Driess and coworkers. The peaks at 600 and 480 cm<sup>-1</sup> most likely correspond to the coupled stretching modes Mn–O bonds located in tetrahedral and octahedral sites, <sup>[23]</sup> these peaks are slightly red-shift-

ed compared to those of larger particles, as also observed for Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>.[24] A third peak at 410 cm<sup>-1</sup> is attributed to the vibration of Mn<sup>3+</sup>–O species in the octahedral sites of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>.<sup>[23]</sup> The broad and narrow absorption bands at 3400 and 1650 cm<sup>-1</sup> correspond to the O-H stretching and bending modes of adsorbed water, respectively. Some minor C-O related vibration modes were found at 1431 and 1546 cm<sup>-1</sup>. These surface contaminants are attributed to post-synthesis adsorption of airborne carbon-containing molecules from the environment<sup>[25]</sup> and/or pyrolysis and chemisorption of the liquid precursor. They were removed prior to water oxidation experiments by low-temperature calcination, as detailed in the Experimental Section. The TOF before low temperature calcination at 250 °C was lower than after calcination (Figure S10). This may be attributed to less of the manganese oxide surface being available for the OER owing to the presence of surface-absorbed

Figure 3 shows the average crystal ( $d_{XRD}$ ,  $\square$ ), TEM ( $d_{TEM}$ ,  $\diamondsuit$ ), and sauter mean diameters ( $d_{BEV}$ ,  $\bigcirc$ ) as a function of [Mn]<sub>qas</sub>

**Figure 3.** Average as-prepared  $Mn_3O_4$  particle diameters ( $d_{BED}$ ,  $d_{TEM}$ , and  $d_{XRD}$ , as a function of the Mn-concentration fed in the gas-phase ([Mn]<sub>pax</sub>).

and  $\Delta P$ . Up to 0.7 mm, all diameters were within 2 nm linearly increasing from  $\sim$  11 nm at 0.3 mm to 18 nm. This indicates the formation of mostly monocrystalline primary particles and low inter-particle sintering. At [Mn]<sub>gas</sub> of 1.16 mm,  $d_{\rm BET}$  (Figure 3,  $\odot$ ) followed the same linear trend, reaching nearly 43 nm. However, the  $d_{\rm XRD}$  and  $d_{\rm TEM}$  had a significantly smaller size of 22 and 27 nm, respectively. This suggests the formation of denser polycrystalline agglomerates, in line with the TEM analysis (Figure 2). This is attributed to the short flame residence time that is not sufficient to fully recrystallize the sintered primary particles into a single domain. Similar trends were previously observed for flame-made SnO<sub>2</sub> and Y<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles. [21,26]

To evaluate the water oxidation activity of similarly-shaped manganese polymorphs, the as-prepared  $Mn_3O_4$  were post-processed under dry conditions. Oxidation of Mn was achieved by sintering the finest  $Mn_3O_4$  powders (115  $m^2g^{-1}$ ) in an oxygen atmosphere at 350 °C. The resulting XRD spectra (Figure 4a, —) show a pure  $Mn_5O_8$  compositional formula of  $Mn_2^{2+}Mn_3^{4+}O_8^{[27]}$  with a SSA of 78  $m^2g^{-1}$ . This material is com-

**Figure 4.** (a) XRD patterns of as-prepared Mn $_3$ O $_4$ , calcined flame-made particles at 350  $^{\circ}$ C in oxygen and 500  $^{\circ}$ C in air compared with commercial nanocrystalline Mn $_3$ O $_4$  and Mn $_2$ O $_3$ . High-resolution TEM images of the flame-made (b) Mn $_3$ O $_4$ , (c) Mn $_5$ O $_8$ , and (d) Mn $_2$ O $_3$ . Corresponding (e) FTIR spectra of the Mn–O vibrational frequencies.

Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>

800 700 600 500 400

Wavenumber (cm<sup>-1</sup>)

SSA=30 m

10 nm

posed of two-dimensional octahedral sheets of  $[Mn_3^{4+}O_8]^{4-}$  consisting of  $Mn^{4+}$  ions separated by  $Mn^{2+}$  layers. [27c] Successful synthesis of pure  $Mn_5O_8$  was further confirmed by high-resolution TEM analysis (Figure 4c), showing lattice plane spacing consistent with the unit cell of  $Mn_5O_8$ . FTIR analysis of these  $Mn_5O_8$  powders (Figures 4e and S9, ——) revealed a fundamentally different structure from  $Mn_3O_4$  (Figures 4e and S9, ——) with two main (603 and 572 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and three minor vibration modes (504, 449, and 428 cm<sup>-1</sup>). This is slightly different from peaks of  $Mn_5O_8$  reported by Gillot et al., [28] which again may be a result of different nanoparticle size and lattice disorder. [24] The synthesis mechanism is in line with that previously proposed for  $Mn_5O_8$ . [27b, 29] However, here it was found that, independent of temperature ramping-rate, pure  $Mn_5O_8$  could be

consistently obtained by sintering in a pure oxygen atmosphere.

Increasing the sintering temperature of the as-prepared Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> to 550 °C and decreasing the oxygen content to 20 % in N<sub>2</sub> led to the formation of Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>. The XRD analysis (Figure 4a, -) revealed a pure bixbyite ( $\alpha$ -Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>) crystal structure and a notable narrowing of the diffraction peaks. This resulted in a crystal size of 22 nm, a  $d_{\rm BFT}$  of 45 nm, and an SSA of 30 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>. This is in line with the stronger sintering expected at 550 °C and oxidation/reduction recrystallization dynamics. The high-resolution TEM analysis and FTIR spectra (Figure 4b-e, further support the formation of pure Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and a large increase in primary particle diameter. The presence of three peaks at approximately 478, 562, and 653 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and three smaller shoulders are comparable to those reported by Driess and coworkers.[22] These bands are attributed to surface and bulk Mn-O vibrational modes. Their position, and relative intensity depend on particle size and lattice disorder as observed by Chen et al.[24] Most importantly, all the manganese oxide polymorphs obtained here had a similar morphology, namely fractal-like quasi-spherical agglomerated particles (Figure S8). This enabled a quasi-iso-morphological comparison of the water-oxidation activity of different manganese oxide species with an oxygen-to-metal ratio ranging from 1.3 to 1.6 and very dissimilar crystal structures.

The performance of these flame-made manganese oxide nanocatalysts was assessed by measurement of their oxygen evolution rate against that of commercially available Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> powders. XRD analysis of the commercial powders (Figure 4a, ——) revealed a nanocrystalline composition resulting in a  $d_{XRD}$  of 55 and 36 nm, respectively. Nitrogen adsorption indicated a SSA of 0.84 (Mn $_3O_4$ ) and 1.53  $m^2g^{-1}$  (Mn $_2O_3$ ), resulting in a  $d_{\rm BET}$  of 1470 and 872 nm, respectively. These large grain sizes are commonly obtained by large-scale commercial production of manganese oxides. The large spread between  $d_{XRD}$  and  $d_{BFT}$  suggests polycrystalline grains. Here, (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>Ce(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>6</sub>, further referred to as CAN, was used as electron acceptor instead of common photo-sensitizers such as  $[Ru(bpy)_3]^{2+}$  (Table 2, bpy=2,2'-bipyridine) to avoid testing under visible light. It was shown that owing to the photo-catalytic activity of some manganese oxide species, the water oxidation activity can be overestimated under light irradiation.[7d,30]

Figure S11 shows the oxygen evolution rate of  $Mn_3O_4$ ,  $Mn_2O_3$ , and  $Mn_5O_8$  suspensions. Pure  $Mn_5O_8$  was determined as an active crystal structure for water oxidation. Within the measurement time, all catalysts showed a quasi-linear increase in oxygen content indicating a constant oxidation rate. The  $Mn_3O_4$  powders (Figure S11, —) had nearly twice as high activity than the  $Mn_5O_8$  and  $Mn_2O_3$  (Figure S11, — and —). However, this was mainly a result of the considerably higher SSA of the as-prepared  $Mn_3O_4$  powders (Table 2). Comparison of the mole-specific TOF for similar SSA nanocatalysts showed very similar activity for both  $Mn_3O_4$  and  $Mn_2O_3$  (Figure 5,  $\bigcirc$  and  $\bigcirc$ ). In contrast, the mole-specific TOF of the  $Mn_5O_8$  was  $\sim 30\%$  lower (Figure 5 a,  $\square$ ) than that of  $Mn_3O_4$  with comparable SSA.

**Table 2.** Water oxidation performance of manganese oxide nanocatalysts and qualitative comparison with previous reports using CAN as the electron acceptor.

| Catalyst<br>Material           | Source                           | $TOF_{mol}^{[a]}$ $[mmol_{O_2}mol_{Mn}^{-1}s^{-1}]$ | SSA $[m^2g^{-1}]$ | $TOF_{surface}^{[b]}$ $[\mu mol_{O_2} m^{-2} s^{-1}]$ | Ref.      |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| $Mn_3O_4$                      | FSP-made, batch 1 <sup>[c]</sup> | $0.33 \pm 0.008$                                    | 115               | $0.037 \pm 0.001$                                     | This work |
|                                | FSP-made, batch 2 <sup>[c]</sup> | $0.14 \pm 0.013$                                    | 30                | $0.063 \pm 0.006$                                     | This work |
|                                | Commercial                       | $0.0012 \pm 0.0007$                                 | 0.84              | $0.018 \pm 0.01$                                      | This work |
| $Mn_2O_3$                      | As synthesized <sup>[d]</sup>    | $0.17 \pm 0.008$                                    | 30                | $0.070 \pm 0.003$                                     | This work |
|                                | Commercial                       | $0.0025 \pm 0.001$                                  | 1.53              | $0.020 \pm 0.01$                                      | This work |
|                                | -                                | 0.027                                               | 16.6              | 0.021 <sup>[e]</sup>                                  | [41]      |
| Mn <sub>5</sub> O <sub>8</sub> | As synthesized <sup>[d]</sup>    | $0.19 \pm 0.015$                                    | 78                | $0.031 \pm 0.002$                                     | This work |
| Amorphous Mn-oxides            | -                                | 0.52                                                | 184               | 0.029 <sup>[e]</sup>                                  | [40]      |
| $CaMn_2O_4\cdot H_2O$          | -                                | 0.54                                                | 205               | 0.023 <sup>[e]</sup>                                  | [41]      |

[a] Mole-specific TOF. [b] Surface-specific TOF. [c] These represent two different batches of FSP-made  $Mn_3O_4$  with different process parameters as shown in Table 1. [d] FSP-made batch 1 was used for the synthesis of  $Mn_2O_3$  and  $Mn_5O_8$ . [e] As computed from the reported mole-specific TOF and SSA. The TOFs are an average of three measurements and the error represents the standard deviations.

**Figure 5.** (a) Mole- and (b) surface-specific turnover frequency (TOF) of the flame-prepared and commercial manganese oxide nanocrystalline powders. The TOFs are an average of three measurements and the error bars were computed as standard deviations.

SSA  $(m^2 g^{-1})$ 

Overall, the mole-specific TOF of the flame-made  $Mn_3O_4$  increased quasi-linearly from 0.14 to 0.33  $mmol_{O_2} mol_{Mn}^{-1} s^{-1}$  with increasing SSA from 30 to 115  $m^2 g^{-1}$  (Figure 5 a,  $\bigcirc$ ). However, their surface-specific TOF (Figure 5 b,  $\bigcirc$ ) decreased from 0.063 to 0.037  $\mu mol_{O_2} m^{-2} s^{-1}$ , indicating that larger  $Mn_3O_4$  grains have up to 68% higher surface-specific activity. A possi-

ble explanation is that the polycrystalline nature of the coarse Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> results in a higher density of grain boundaries and defect/reaction sites. Furthermore, the highly agglomerated structure of the ultra-fine Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> may provide a shielding effect to the diffusion of the CAN molecules, [31] thus effectively slowing the TOF. The surface-specific TOF of the flame-made Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> having similar SSA was within 11.1%, indicating nearly identical performance. This is in contrast to previous reports showing a considerably stronger activity of Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> over Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. [32] However, in those studies the morphology of these two polymorphs was considerably different, with one being rod- and the other spherically-shaped. Here, we show that for similar nanocatalyst morphology and SSA, the water oxidation performance of  $Mn_2O_3$  and  $Mn_3O_4$  is nearly identical, and Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> has a comparable activity. Although it is not possible to completely rule out that CAN may influence the oxidation states of Mn sites located on or near the nanoparticle surface. high-resolution TEM analysis and XRD (Figure 6) of the flameprepared manganese oxides before and after water oxidation revealed no change in the crystal plane spacing or surface composition. This suggests that any variation of the catalyst composition is limited to a relatively small amount of sites on their surface, in-line with the constant oxygen evolution rates observed during the OERs (2 min) and previous reports on the CAN interaction with manganese oxide nanocrystals, reporting visible changes only after period of hours.[33]

Spiccia and coworkers investigated the water oxidation activity of various manganese oxides formed in Nafion by electrodeposition from molecular Mn precursors and protic ionic liquid electrolyte solutions. [34-36] The catalytic activity of the birnessite formed in the Nafion films [7c,d] was found to increase with the degree of nanoscale structural disorder [34] and with increasing amounts of Mn [135] In addition, amongst the materials deposited from the ionic liquids, those containing Mn were found to be more active. [36] This is consistent with recent studies by Driess and coworkers that emphasized the contribution of the Jahn–Teller effect, often encountered in octahedral complexes such as Mn [11]—containing Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, to the water oxidation activity of manganese oxides. [37] However, nanostruc-

90 100 110

0.00

20 30 40 50 60 70

Figure 6. (a–d) XRD patterns and (e–j) high-resolution TEM images of  $Mn_3O_4$ ,  $Mn_5O_8$ , and  $Mn_2O_3$  nanoparticles before and after the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with CAN.

tured  $\beta$ -MnO<sub>2</sub>, a Mn<sup>IV</sup> mineral, was also shown to have high water oxidation activity, even though no evidence for the presence of Mn<sup>III</sup> could be obtained.<sup>[30]</sup> This suggests that other crystalline manganese oxide polymorphs, such as Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> having a mixed Mn<sub>2</sub>(II) and Mn<sub>3</sub>(IV) valence, may also efficiently catalyse the water oxidation reaction.

Figure 7 shows XPS analysis of the highest and lowest SSA  $Mn_3O_4$  and  $Mn_5O_8$  nanocatalysts before and after testing of the water oxidation activity with CAN. The Mn 2p spectra are difficult to evaluate quantitatively, and here only a qualitative interpretation has been attempted. The Mn 2p XPS spectra for the highest and lowest SSA  $Mn_3O_4$  are indiscernible (Figure 7a–b). This suggests that the observed difference in surface-specific TOF between the two samples may originate from morphological effects rather than chemical changes. The XPS Mn 2p spectra of the manganese oxides (Figure 7) show that contributions from lower oxidation states increases from

Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> to Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub>. Considering that both Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> have a mixed-valence of Mn<sup>II</sup>/Mn<sup>III</sup> and Mn<sup>II</sup>/Mn<sup>IV</sup>, respectively, this may suggest an higher contribution from Mn<sup>II</sup> in the flame-prepared Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub>. An increase in the contribution from higher binding energy states was observed following testing of the OER with CAN mainly for the Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> samples. This suggests that the Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> particle surface may undergo oxidation during the OER. Some amount of surface oxidation is consistent with the increase in O/Mn ratio observed in all Mn<sub>v</sub>O<sub>v</sub> nanoparticles after catalytic testing with CAN (Table S2). However, it should be noted that the increase in O/Mn ratio is not solely a result of an increase in oxidation state of Mn. Additional O species were introduced into the sample in the form of nitrate and Ce oxides/hydroxide species during the OER. An increase in the N/ Mn ratio and a relatively high Ce/Mn ratio was observed for all Mn<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> nanoparticles after reaction with CAN, and may be attributed to the physisorption of residual Ce species. The lower

Figure 7. Mn 2 p XPS spectra before and after testing the oxygen evolution activity of Mn3O<sup>4</sup> with (a) the highest and (b) lowest specific surface area (SSA), and (c) Mn5O<sup>8</sup> nanoparticles.

than expected N/Ce ratio, however, indicates that not all the Ce is in the form of nitrates, and that some Ce may be present as oxide or hydroxide species. Organic capping groups present on the surface of the MnxO<sup>y</sup> nanoparticles are another possible source of adventitious oxygen. Indeed, in all XPS samples, the C/Mn ratio is noticeably high, particularly for the Mn3O<sup>4</sup> samples.

Although the XPS analyses suggest surface oxidation of the Mn3O<sup>4</sup> nanocatalysts on exposure to CAN (Figure 7), the unaltered XRD spectra and high-resolution TEM morphology (Figure 6) indicate that this oxidation is confined to a very small (<1 nm) depth from the particle surface. In contrast, XPS, XRD and TEM indicate that the surface of the Mn5O<sup>8</sup> samples is nearly unchanged upon water oxidation in CAN. This is also in line with their ~30% lower surface-specific TOF.

The slight oxidation of the Mn3O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticle surface after OER with CAN, observed by XPS, suggests that partial oxidation of the manganese oxide surface may be required for efficient water oxidation with crystalline manganese oxides, and that the lower performance of Mn5O<sup>8</sup> could arise from a more stable surface that is deficient in such oxidation sites. Furthermore, the indiscernible Mn 2 p spectra of the lowest and highest SSA Mn3O<sup>4</sup> , obtained before and after catalytic testing with CAN (Figure 7 a–b), suggest that their different surface-specific water oxidation TOFs may not be a result of changes in chemical composition, but to morphological factors. This is tentatively attributed to the shielding effect of large agglomerates composed of ultra-fine primary particles[39] that may result in a diffusion-limited TOF. This phenomenon was also observed in previous work by Spiccia and coworkers.[7c,d,30,34]

Comparison of the mole-specific TOF of the flame-made manganese oxides with the commercial samples revealed up to nearly 30 times higher activity (Figure 5 a). Comparison of their surface-specific TOF (Figure 5 b) confirmed an up to 350% higher activity for the flame-made structures. This may be attributed to the surface composition (e.g., defects or oxidation) of the high temperature flame-made nanocatalysts, offering more active reaction sites. Their determination was outside the scope of this study and requires further investigation. The Mn3O<sup>4</sup> and Mn2O<sup>3</sup> presented here have among the best water oxidation activity reported for pure manganese oxide nanocatalysts tested under similar conditions with comparable CAN concentrations (Table 2). In particular, the highest surfacespecific TOFs of 0.063 and 0.070 mmol<sup>O</sup><sup>2</sup> m¢<sup>2</sup> s ¢<sup>1</sup> determined here for Mn3O<sup>4</sup> and Mn2O<sup>3</sup> , respectively, are more than twice as high as those reported for amorphous manganese oxides (0.029 mmol<sup>O</sup><sup>2</sup> m ¢2 s ¢1 ).[40] They are also more than 3 times higher than that of sol-gel-made crystalline Mn2O<sup>3</sup> and Ca–Mn compounds (0.021 and 0.023 mmol<sup>O</sup><sup>2</sup> m ¢2 s ¢1 , respectively).[41]

The voltammograms for the flame-made manganese oxide nanoparticulate films are shown in Figure 8 a. The Mn2O<sup>3</sup> films required a lower overpotential (0.410.06 V, 30 m 2g ¢1 ) to reach a current density of 10 mAcm¢<sup>2</sup> than the high (0.48 0.06 V, 115 m<sup>2</sup>g ¢1 ) and low (0.510.01 V, 30 m 2g ¢1 ) SSA Mn3O<sup>4</sup> , and Mn5O<sup>8</sup> (0.490.01 V, 78 m<sup>2</sup>g ¢1 ) films. The corresponding Tafel plots are shown in Figure 8 b. The Tafel slopes follow the order of Mn2O<sup>3</sup> (992 mV dec¢<sup>1</sup> , 30 m<sup>2</sup>g ¢1 ), Mn3O<sup>4</sup> (1072 mV dec¢<sup>1</sup> , 30 m<sup>2</sup>g ¢1 ), Mn5O<sup>8</sup> (1083 mV dec¢<sup>1</sup> , 78 m 2g ¢1 ), and Mn3O<sup>4</sup> (1215 mV dec¢<sup>1</sup> , 115 m 2g ¢1 ). The Tafel slopes were the average of four measurements (two measurements Õ two batches) and the error bars were computed as standard deviations. These Tafel slope values are essentially indicating a similar water oxidation mechanism. While there is some correlation between Tafel slopes and TOFs determined with CAN (e.g., the Mn3O<sup>4</sup> and Mn2O<sup>3</sup> with the same SSA show comparable Tafel slopes, and similar TOFs when tested with CAN), these electrochemical results are dependent on additional parameters, such as film thickness, morphology, electronic conductivity of the catalyst, the electrolyte, post-calcination

**Figure 8.** (a) Cyclic voltammogram (second cycle) and (b) Tafel slopes derived from the cyclic voltammetry curves (anodic branches) of flame-made manganese oxide nanoparticulate films.

temperature, and so on. They are, therefore, not directly comparable with OER tests using oxidants such as CAN or [Ru(bpy)<sub>3</sub>]<sup>3+</sup>, as was discussed by Suib and coworkers.<sup>[42]</sup> The stability of the manganese oxide films during the OER was tested at 0.7 V (vs. Ag/AgCl) in 1 M NaOH over a 10 h period (Figure \$14). The current density of all the manganese oxides decreased over time leveling off at 17%, 8%, 12%, and 6.5% of the initial value for  $Mn_3O_4$  (30  $m^2g^{-1}$ ),  $Mn_3O_4$  (115  $m^2g^{-1}$ ), Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub>, and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, respectively. This behavior suggests partial deactivation of their surface, as previously reported for many manganese oxide polymorphs. [43] High-resolution TEM images of the manganese oxide nanoparticles after controlled potential electrolysis (Figure S15) reveal no visible change of the nanoparticle morphology. Therefore, the partial deactivation of the flame-made manganese oxides is tentatively attributed to a change in surface catalytic sites, as suggested by XPS analysis and TEM images after testing with CAN (Figure 6 and 7). Further optimization and investigation of the long-term surface activity of these flame-prepared manganese oxide nanocrystals has the potential to lead to low-cost, scalable production of highly efficient water oxidation catalysts.

#### **Conclusions**

In summary, we report the characterization of the water oxidation activity of high temperature gas-phase synthesized manganese oxide polymorphs. Highly pure crystalline  $\alpha$ -Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and Mn<sub>s</sub>O<sub>s</sub> with guasi-spherical morphology were obtained by dryphase post-processing of as-prepared flame-made Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanopowders. This enabled the comparison of the turnover frequency (TOF) of three quasi-spherical and crystalline species with oxidation ratio (O/Mn) varying from 1.3 to 1.6. It was found that Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> have nearly identical surface-specific TOF, whereas  $Mn_5O_8$  was slightly less active with  $\sim 30\%$ lower water oxidation TOF. The XRD, high-resolution TEM, and XPS analyses indicated slight oxidation of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticle surface and almost no traceable oxidation of Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> after the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>Ce(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>6</sub> (CAN). The lack of Jahn-Teller distortion and oxidation sites on the Mn<sub>s</sub>O<sub>s</sub> nanocatalysts may explain their lower water oxidation activity.

The flame-made manganese oxide powders revealed an order of magnitude higher mole-specific TOF than commercial nanocrystalline manganese catalysts. Comparison of the surface-specific TOF of the commercial and flame-made Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> resulted in up to 350% higher activity of the latter reaching up to 0.063 and 0.070  $\mu$ mol<sub>0</sub>, m<sup>-2</sup>s<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The high water oxidation catalytic activity of these flame-prepared manganese oxides was further confirmed by cyclic voltammetry. Low overpotentials of 0.35 to 0.50 V were required to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Furthermore, Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> samples with the same SSA had comparable Tafel slopes in agreement with the similar TOFs obtained with CAN. These results show that flame-synthesis is a promising process for rapid and scalable production of manganese oxide nanocatalysts with enhanced surface activity and may provide a controllable route for the identification of highly active water oxidation sites.

#### **Experimental Section**

Synthesis of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>: Ultra-fine (SSA > 100 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) manganese oxide nanoparticles were produced by flame spray pyrolysis (Figure 1) of solutions containing a readily available manganese complex, Mn(acac)<sub>3</sub>. The flame spray pyrolysis synthesis mechanism was previously discussed in detail for coarser manganese oxide, [13a] alumina, [13a] and several other ultra-fine metal-oxide nanoparticles, such as SiO<sub>2</sub>, [13b] TiO<sub>2</sub>, [14] and LiMn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, [17] Combustible liquid solutions were prepared by dissolving Mn(acac)<sub>3</sub> (Aldrich) in a 1:1 (volumetric ratio) mixture of acetonitrile (Sigma–Aldrich, purity > 99.5 %) and 2-ethylhexanoic acid (SAFC, purity > 99%), to reach a total Mnatom concentration ([Mn]<sub>liq</sub>) of 0.5 m. This solution was fed at a 3–7 ml min<sup>-1</sup> rate ( $L_R$ ) through a custom build nozzle (Figure 1), and atomized with an oxygen flow (O<sub>2- $\Delta P$ </sub> = 3–5 L min<sup>-1</sup>, COREGAS grade 2.5) at a set pressure drop ( $\Delta P$  = 3–7 bar). The resulting spray was ignited with a surrounding annular set of premixed methane/

## CHEMSUSCHEM Full Papers

oxygen flame (CH<sub>4-flamlet</sub> =  $1.2 \, L \, min^{-1}$ , O<sub>2-flamlet</sub> =  $2 \, L \, min^{-1}$ , COREGAS grade 4.5). Nanoparticle powders were collected with a vacuum pump (ICME Type M80B4) on water-cooled glass-fiber filters (Sartorius glass microfiber, 160 mm diameter) placed at 45 cm height above burner. Commercial nanocrystalline, pure  $Mn_3O_4$  powders (purity > 99%) were acquired from Sigma–Aldrich with an average crystal size of 55 nm and a SSA of  $0.8 \, m^2 \, g^{-1}$ .

**Synthesis of Mn**<sub>5</sub>**O**<sub>8</sub> **and Mn**<sub>2</sub>**O**<sub>3</sub>: Nanocrystalline Mn<sub>5</sub>**O**<sub>8</sub> and Mn<sub>2</sub>**O**<sub>3</sub> powders were synthesized by sintering and recrystallization of the flame-made Mn<sub>3</sub>**O**<sub>4</sub> ([Mn]<sub>liq</sub>=0.5 m,  $L_R$ =3 mlmin<sup>-1</sup>,  $O_{2\cdot\Delta P}$ =5 Lmin<sup>-1</sup>,  $\Delta P$ =5 bar, SSA=115 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>) in a tubular furnace (inner diameter 43 mm, MTl Corporation, GSL-1100x) with controlled atmospheric and temperature conditions. Pure Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> nanoparticles were obtained by purging with O<sub>2</sub> (1 Lmin<sup>-1</sup>) for 130 min, and isothermal sintering in a pure O<sub>2</sub> atmosphere (0.3 Lmin<sup>-1</sup> O<sub>2</sub>) at 350 °C for 12 h (heating rate 10 °C min<sup>-1</sup>). Pure Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles were obtained by sintering in synthetic air at 550 °C for 90 min (heating rate 10 °C min<sup>-1</sup>). Commercial nanocrystalline, pure Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> powders (purity > 99%) were acquired from Sigma–Aldrich with an average crystal size of 36 nm and a SSA of 1.5 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>.

Material Characterization: All powders were analyzed using a Hitachi H7100FA 125 kV transmission electron microscope with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) and a JEOL JEM-2100F Field Emission Gun Transmission Electron Microscope (FEGTEM). Average particle diameters ( $d_{\text{TEM}}$ ) were determined by counting the size distribution of 70 particles per sample with standard image processing software (Nano Measurer). The crystal phase and average size  $(d_{XRD})$  were determined by XRD analysis with a D2 Phaser, Bruker, USA. The powder SSA was measured by N<sub>2</sub> adsorption using a porosity analyzer (Micromeritics, TriStar II, U.S.A). The Sauter diameter was measured by the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) method ( $d_{BFT}$ ) from the SSA. The composition and purity were investigated by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR-ATR, Bruker-Alpha, U.S.A), and elemental analysis with a Carlo Erba 1106 CHN analyzer. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed using an AXIS Ultra DLD spectrometer (Kratos Analytical Inc., Manchester, UK) with a monochromated  $Al_{K\alpha}$  source at a power of 144 W (12 kV×12 mA), a hemispherical analyzer operating in the fixed analyzer transmission mode and the standard aperture (analysis area:  $0.3 \times 0.7 \text{ mm}$ ). The total pressure in the main vacuum chamber during analysis was typically between 10<sup>-9</sup> and 10<sup>-8</sup> mbar. Survey spectra were acquired at a pass energy of 160 eV. To obtain more detailed information about, for example, chemical structure and oxidation states, high-resolution spectra were recorded from individual peaks at 20 eV pass energy (yielding a typical peak width for polymers of 0.8–1.0 eV). Each specimen was analyzed at an emission angle of 0° as measured from the surface normal. Assuming typical values for the electron attenuation length of relevant photoelectrons, the XPS analysis depth ranges between 5 and 10 nm for a flat surface. Since the actual emission angle is ill-defined in the case of small particles (ranging from 0° to 90°) the sampling depth may range from 0 to ~10 nm. Data processing was performed using CasaXPS processing software version 2.3.15 (Casa Software Ltd., Teignmouth, UK). All elements present were identified from survey spectra. The atomic concentrations of the detected elements were calculated using integral peak intensities and the sensitivity factors supplied by the manufacturer. The accuracy associated with quantitative XPS was ~10-15%. Precision (i.e., reproducibility) depends on the signal/noise ratio, but was usually better than 5%. The latter is relevant when comparing similar samples.

Characterization of Water Oxidation Performance: FTIR analysis of the as-prepared manganese oxide samples revealed low concentration amounts of water and hydrocarbon-related species (see Results and Discussion for more details). These are attributed to either post-synthesis adsorption of airborne water and hydrocarbons present in the environment, [25] or pyrolysis and chemisorption of the liquid precursor. To ensure a clean and consistent manganese oxide surface, prior to water oxidation experiments, both the water- and hydrocarbon-related species were successfully desorbed by low temperature calcination (1 hr at 250 °C) without affecting the crystal structure and morphology as verified by XRD (Figure S1), FTIR (Figure S2), elemental analysis (Table S1), TEM (Figure S3), and BET-SSA. Oxygen evolution was measured by a Clarktype oxygen electrode system (Oxytherm System, Hansatech Instruments, England). First, a deionized water solution was deoxygenated by N2 purging for calibration of the electrode. In a typical run, manganese oxide catalysts (2.2-3.5 mg) were suspended in deionized water (0.8 mL) by sonication (1 min) and vortex mixing (5 min). Then the nanocatalysts suspension (0.2 mL) were added immediately to deionized water (0.8 mL) in the reaction vessel, and degassed by N2 purging. Thereafter, an anaerobic solution of CAN (2 м, 0.1 mL) was added and the oxygen evolution was measured under continuous stirring. The measurements were completed within 2-3 min as expected from the consumption of electron acceptor CAN. Each powder composition (phase, crystal size and SSA) was tested for three times, and the oxygen evolution rate was determined from the slope of the linear fit for the first 60 s.

Electrochemical Characterization: Cyclic voltammetry with scan rate at 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and chronoamperometry data were collected with a Bio-Logic VMP3 potentiostat at room temperature. Tafel plots were retrieved from the anodic sweep of the voltammogram curves. Chronoamperometry experiments were performed using the as-prepared working electrodes without further treatment to improve the mechanical stability of the catalyst films. For all electrochemical measurements, the electrolyte was aqueous NaOH (1.0 M, pH 13.6) and a Ag/AgCl reference electrode (ALS Co., Ltd), Pt wire counter electrode, and flame-prepared manganese oxide films deposited on FTO glass (Dyesol) as working electrodes. To prepare the working electrodes, the FTO-coated glass substrates were cleaned by sonication for 10 min in acetone. The clean FTO glass substrates, using a metal mask (hole size is 4×4 mm), were mounted at a height above the burner of 8 cm for Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (115  $\text{m}^2\text{g}^{-1}\text{)}$  deposition and 17 cm for  $\text{Mn}_3\text{O}_4$  (30  $\text{m}^2\text{g}^{-1}\text{)}.$  The deposition time is 60 and 24 s, respectively. The synthesis parameters of  $Mn_3O_4$  (115 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and  $Mn_3O_4$  (30 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) were as mentioned in Table 1. The Mn<sub>5</sub>O<sub>8</sub> and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> films were synthesized by post-calcination of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (115 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) as described earlier in this paper. The potentials were measured using a Ag/AgCl (3.0 M NaCl) reference electrode at room temperature ( $E^{\circ} = 0.209 \,\mathrm{V}$  vs. normal hydrogen electrode, NHE) and then converted to values with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the Nernst equation:  $V_{RHE} = V_{Ag/AgCI} + (0.209 \text{ V vs. NHE}) + 0.059 \times \text{pH}.$ 

#### **Acknowledgements**

A.T. was financially supported through the FERL fellowship of the Research School of Engineering at ANU and ARC Discovery Project DP150101939 grant. L.S. acknowledges financial support of this work by the ARC Centre of Excellence for Electromaterials Science (CE140100012). M.H.C. acknowledges financial support of the Australian Research Council Discovery Project #120100872.

## CHEMSUSCHEM Full Papers

Access to the facilities of the Centre for Advanced Microscopy (CAM) with funding through the Australian Microscopy and Microanalysis Research Facility (AMMRF) is gratefully acknowledged.

**Keywords:** catalysts · manganese · oxides · nanomaterials · water oxidation

- a) N. D. Morris, M. Suzuki, T. E. Mallouk, J. Phys. Chem. A 2004, 108, 9115–9119; b) S. K. Das, P. K. Dutta, Microporous Mesoporous Mater. 1998, 22, 475–483; c) L. Duan, F. Bozoglian, S. Mandal, B. Stewart, T. Privalov, A. Llobet, L. Sun. Nat. Chem. 2012, 4, 418–423.
- a) J. D. Blakemore, H. B. Gray, J. R. Winkler, A. M. Müller, ACS Catal. 2013,
   2497–2500; b) L. Trotochaud, J. K. Ranney, K. N. Williams, S. W. Boettcher, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 17253–17261; c) R. D. L. Smith,
   M. S. Prévot, R. D. Fagan, S. Trudel, C. P. Berlinguette, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 11580–11586.
- [3] M. Wiechen, M. M. Najafpour, S. I. Allakhverdiev, L. Spiccia, Energy Environ. Sci. 2014, 7, 2203 – 2212.
- [4] M. Suga, F. Akita, K. Hirata, G. Ueno, H. Murakami, Y. Nakajima, T. Shimizu, K. Yamashita, M. Yamamoto, H. Ago, J.-R. Shen, *Nature* 2015, 517, 99 103.
- [5] K. Kinoshita, Electrochemical oxygen technology, Vol. 30, Wiley, 1992.
- [6] F. Cheng, J. Shen, B. Peng, Y. Pan, Z. Tao, J. Chen, Nat. Chem. 2011, 3, 79–84.
- [7] a) M. M. Najafpour, M. Kompany-Zareh, A. Zahraei, D. J. Sedigh, H. Jaccard, M. Khoshkam, R. D. Britt, W. H. Casey, *Dalton Trans.* 2013, 42, 14603 14611; b) M. Huynh, D. K. Bediako, D. G. Nocera, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2014, 136, 6002 6010; c) R. K. Hocking, R. Brimblecombe, L.-Y. Chang, A. Singh, M. H. Cheah, C. Glover, W. H. Casey, L. Spiccia, *Nat. Chem.* 2011, 3, 461 466; d) A. Singh, R. K. Hocking, S. L.-Y. Chang, B. M. George, M. Fehr, K. Lips, A. Schnegg, L. Spiccia, *Chem. Mater.* 2013, 25, 1098 1108.
- [8] a) J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* 2011, 3, 546–550; b) X. Han, T. Zhang, J. Du, F. Cheng, J. Chen, *Chem. Sci.* 2013, 4, 368–376.
- [9] M. M. Najafpour, D. J. Sedigh, B. Pashaei, S. Nayeri, New J. Chem. 2013, 37, 2448 – 2459.
- [10] A. Indra, P. W. Menezes, I. Zaharieva, E. Baktash, J. Pfrommer, M. Schwarze, H. Dau, M. Driess, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 13206–13210; Angew. Chem. 2013, 125, 13447–13451.
- [11] S. E. Pratsinis, Prog. Energy Combust. Sci. 1998, 24, 197–219.
- [12] R. Mueller, L. Mädler, S. E. Pratsinis, *Chem. Eng. Sci.* **2003**, *58*, 1969–
- [13] J. Tikkanen, K. A. Gross, C. C. Berndt, V. Pitkanen, J. Keskinen, S. Raghu, M. Rajala, J. Karthikeyan, Surf. Coat. Technol. 1997, 90, 210 – 216.
- [14] A. Tricoli, A. S. Wallerand, M. Righettoni, J. Mater. Chem. 2012, 22, 14254–14261.
- [15] A. Tricoli, M. Graf, S. E. Pratsinis, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2008**, *18*, 1969–1976.
- [16] A. Tricoli, M. Righettoni, S. E. Pratsinis, Nanotechnology 2009, 20, 315502.
- [17] S. Y. Chew, T. J. Patey, O. Waser, S. H. Ng, R. Büchel, A. Tricoli, F. Krumeich, J. Wang, H. K. Liu, S. E. Pratsinis, P. Novák, *J. Power Sources* 2009, 189, 449–453.
- [18] A. Tricoli, T. D. Elmøe, AlChE J. 2012, 58, 3578-3588.
- [19] a) M. Righettoni, A. Tricoli, S. E. Pratsinis, Anal. Chem. 2010, 82, 3581 3587; b) M. J. Height, L. Madler, S. E. Pratsinis, F. Krumeich, Chem. Mater. 2006, 18, 572 578.

- [20] L. Mädler, H. Kammler, R. Mueller, S. Pratsinis, J. Aerosol Sci. 2002, 33, 369 – 389.
- [21] A. Tricoli, M. Graf, F. Mayer, S. Kühne, A. Hierlemann, S. E. Pratsinis, Adv. Mater. 2008, 20, 3005 – 3010.
- [22] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, P. Littlewood, M. Schwarze, C. Göbel, R. Schomäcker, M. Driess, ChemSusChem 2014, 7, 2202 – 2211.
- [23] M. Ishii, M. Nakahira, T. Yamanaka, Solid State Commun. 1972, 11, 209–212.
- [24] a) Z. Chen, Z. Jiao, D. Pan, Z. Li, M. Wu, C.-H. Shek, C. M. L. Wu, J. K. L. Lai, Chem. Rev. 2012, 112, 3833–3855; b) Z. W. Chen, J. K. L. Lai, C. H. Shek, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 2006, 352, 3285–3289.
- [25] a) P. J. Smith, P. M. Lindley, AIP Conf. Proc. 1998, 449, 133 139; b) A. Kurokawa, K. Odaka, Y. Azuma, T. Fujimoto, I. Kojima, J. Surf. Anal. 2009, 15, 337 340; c) M. Baldi, E. Finocchio, C. Pistarino, G. Busca, Appl. Catal. A 1998, 173, 61 74; d) E. Finocchio, V. Lorenzelli, V. Escribano, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 1996, 92, 1587 1593.
- [26] A. Camenzind, R. Strobel, S. E. Pratsinis, Chem. Phys. Lett. 2005, 415, 193–197.
- [27] a) M. Sugawara, M. Ohno, K. Matsuki, Chem. Lett. 1991, 1465–1468;
   b) J. H. Lee, Y. J. Sa, T. K. Kim, H. R. Moon, S. H. Joo, J. Mater. Chem. A
   2014, 2, 10435–10443;
   c) T. Gao, P. Norby, F. Krumeich, H. Okamoto, R. Nesper, H. Fjellvåg, J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 922–928.
- [28] B. Gillot, M. El Guendouzi, M. Laarj, Mater. Chem. Phys. 2001, 70, 54-60.
- [29] H. R. Oswald, M. J. Wampetich, Helv. Chim. Acta 1967, 50, 2023-2034.
- [30] M. Fekete, R. K. Hocking, S. L. Chang, C. Italiano, A. F. Patti, F. Arena, L. Spiccia, Energy Environ. Sci. 2013, 6, 2222 2232.
- [31] V. B. R. Boppana, S. Yusuf, G. S. Hutchings, F. Jiao, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2013, 23, 878–884.
- [32] a) D. M. Robinson, Y. B. Go, M. Mui, G. Gardner, Z. Zhang, D. Mastrogio-vanni, E. Garfunkel, J. Li, M. Greenblatt, G. C. Dismukes, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 3494–3501; b) F. Jiao, H. Frei, Chem. Commun. 2010, 46, 2920–2922.
- [33] M. M. Najafpour, D. J. Sedigh, Dalton Trans. 2013, 42, 12173 12178.
- [34] S. L. Y. Chang, A. Singh, R. K. Hocking, C. Dwyer, L. Spiccia, J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2, 3730 – 3733.
- [35] M. Khan, E. Suljoti, A. Singh, S. A. Bonke, T. Brandenburg, K. Atak, R. Golnak, L. Spiccia, E. F. Aziz, J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2, 18199 18203.
- [36] a) F. Zhou, A. Izgorodin, R. K. Hocking, L. Spiccia, D. R. MacFarlane, Adv. Energy Mater. 2012, 2, 1013–1021; b) F. Zhou, A. Izgorodin, R. K. Hocking, V. Armel, L. Spiccia, D. R. MacFarlane, ChemSusChem 2013, 6, 643–651
- [37] A. Indra, P. W. Menezes, M. Driess, ChemSusChem 2015, 8, 776 785.
- [38] M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, A. P. Grosvenor, L. W. M. Lau, A. R. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2011, 257, 2717 – 2730.
- [39] A. Gamez, D. Richard, P. Gallezot, F. Gloaguen, R. Faure, R. Durand, *Electrochim. Acta* 1996, 41, 307–314.
- [40] A. Iyer, J. Del-Pilar, C. K. King'ondu, E. Kissel, H. F. Garces, H. Huang, A. M. El-Sawy, P. K. Dutta, S. L. Suib, J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 6474– 6483.
- [41] M. M. Najafpour, T. Ehrenberg, M. Wiechen, P. Kurz, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2010, 49, 2233 – 2237; Angew. Chem. 2010, 122, 2281 – 2285.
- [42] C.-H. Kuo, I. M. Mosa, A. S. Poyraz, S. Biswas, A. M. El-Sawy, W. Song, Z. Luo, S.-Y. Chen, J. F. Rusling, J. He, S. L. Suib, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 1693–1699.
- [43] Y. Meng, W. Song, H. Huang, Z. Ren, S.-Y. Chen, S. L. Suib, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 11452 – 11464.

Received: May 26, 2015 Revised: July 30, 2015 Published online on November 25, 2015