---
source: Liu 等 - 2023 - Anchoring Ni3 S2 Cr(OH)3 hybrid nanospheres on Ti3 Csu.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 66.936s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:14:23.910351Z
---

## **Nanoscale**

PAPER View Article Online
View Journal | View Issue

Cite this: Nanoscale, 2023, 15, 14131

# Anchoring $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3$ hybrid nanospheres on $Ti_3C_2@NF$ dual substrates by ion exchange for efficient urea electrolysis†

Yifeng Liu, Qianqiao Chen \* and Qin Zhong

Developing efficient nonprecious-metal urea oxidation reaction (UOR) electrocatalysts will promote large-scale hydrogen production via electrolytic water splitting. Therefore, on dual substrates consisting of nickel foam (NF) with high-conductivity  $Ti_3C_2$  adsorbed on it,  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3$  nanosphere catalysts were facilely in situ constructed at room temperature via an ion-exchange method. The optimized electrode exhibits obvious advantages and excellent stability in a solution of 1 M KOH containing 0.5 M urea, with an overpotential of 130 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for the UOR. The two-electrode system requires merely 1.52 V to attain a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, and shows excellent durability over 60 h. The superior performance of the electrode is mainly attributed to the following three aspects: (i) the introduction of amorphous  $Cr(OH)_3$ , which improves the catalyst morphology and regulates the electronic structure of the active metal; (ii) the synergistic catalysis by the defect-rich  $Ni_3S_2$  and  $Cr(OH)_3$  on the nanospheres; (iii) the large adsorption surface and excellent electrical conductivity provided by the dual substrates; and (iv) the mild preparation process, which provides excellent stability for the electrode. The ingenious structural design and simple preparation method of  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2(aNF)$  provide ideas for the development of low-cost, high-efficiency UOR electrodes with industrial application prospects.

Received 30th May 2023, Accepted 30th July 2023 DOI: 10.1039/d3nr02524a

rsc.li/nanoscale

### 1. Introduction

As a clean and renewable energy source, hydrogen has great potential to become a major fuel for the low-carbon economy, and water electrolysis is considered as a promising option for carbon-free hydrogen production.<sup>1,2</sup> However, in conventional water electrolysis, the energy conversion efficiency of the reaction is extremely low due to the sluggish kinetics of the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and the theoretical potential of up to 1.23 V.<sup>3-5</sup> As an alternative, electro-oxidation of small molecules, such as glucose,<sup>6</sup> urea,<sup>4</sup> aldehydes, *etc*,<sup>7</sup> has attracted immense attention for providing a lower theoretical potential.<sup>8</sup> Among these reactions, the urea oxidation reaction (UOR) will be the most promising alternative, having a much lower theoretical potential (0.37 V) and a wide range of natural sources from animal urine, and industrial and agricultural wastewater.<sup>9</sup>

To date, great efforts have been devoted to the development of excellent UOR catalysts, and the cost-effective Ni-based catalysts have been found to be the most promising materials, <sup>10,11</sup> with examples such as Ni-MOFs, <sup>11,12</sup> Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, <sup>13,14</sup> nickel

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, China. E-mail: cqq@njust.edu.cn

† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.1039/d3nr02524a nitrides<sup>15,16</sup> and nickel sulfides<sup>17,18</sup> exhibiting favorable UOR activity. Among these, nickel sulfide has aroused wide interest due to its good electrical conductivity and relative stability in alkaline electrolytes. However, the undesired strong absorption of Ni<sup>3+</sup> active sites toward the COO\* intermediate results in its electrocatalysis still being far from satisfactory. 11 Several effective strategies have been developed to modulate the electronic structure of active metals and optimize the electroactivity, including the incorporation heteroatoms, 13,19,20 defect engineering 21,22 and morphology engineering, 23,24 which were exploited to facilitate mass and gas transfer. Generally, a precursor solution containing S (Na<sub>2</sub>S, CH<sub>4</sub>N<sub>2</sub>S)<sup>25,26</sup> can lead to corrosion of a nickel foam substrate and reduce the electrocatalytic stability during highpressure and -temperature in situ liquid-phase synthesis of sulfides. So, it is a challenge to synthesize high-performance nickel-sulfide composite electrodes on metal substrates. Meanwhile, Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> possesses excellent intrinsic metallic electrical conductivity and chemical stability, 27,28 and has been successfully applied to electrochemical energy storage, 29 electrocatalysis,30 and biomedicine.31 Hence, it is the best candidate material as an additional substrate to protect nickel foam, and to expand the adsorption surface of highly active materials.

Herein,  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3$  nanospheres anchored on a  $Ti_3C_2/NF$  substrate were synthesized by a facile method at room temperature. By the introduction of Cr ions, amorphous  $Cr(OH)_3$ 

and nickel sulfide nanospheres were formed simultaneously during the ion exchange process, which improved the morphology and also generated some defects. Meanwhile, the large number of vacancies in the d orbitals of Cr atoms could receive electrons from Ni atoms and generate more Ni<sup>3+</sup> as active sites, <sup>32,33</sup> and further promoted the catalytic activity for

Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the preparation process of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF.

Fig. 2 (a and b) SEM images. (c) SAED image. (d-f) HRTEM images. (g) Element mapping spectra.

Nanoscale Paper

the UOR. The dual substrates composed of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> and NF dramatically enhance the electrode conductivity and provide a channel for electron transport. The prepared Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF catalyst only requires 1.36 V to produce a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for the UOR. In the two-electrode system, the potential is 1.52 V at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The excellent electrocatalytic performance and the energy- and time-saving synthesis method provide potential industrial applications.

#### 2. Results and discussion

Fig. 1 illustrates the stepwise preparation of the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr (OH)3-Ti3C2@NF electrode. Briefly, clean nickel foam was immersed in a suspension of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> (synthesized from Ti<sub>3</sub>AlC<sub>2</sub>; see the Experimental section in the ESI†). Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> nanosheets can be easily adsorbed onto the 3D skeleton of the nickel foam (Fig. S1†) due to its surface negative charges (-F and -OH) and excellent hydrophilicity.34,35 Subsequently, Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF was immersed in Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> and Cr(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub> solution to adsorb metal ions under stirring. Finally, a Na2S solution was slowly dripped into the above solution using a micro-injector to ensure the formation of small-sized hybrid nanospheres.36 The synthesis process can be completed within 3 hours at room temperature. The contents of the electrode components and their influence on the performance are shown in the ESI (Table S1 and Fig. S2 and S3†). The optimal preparation conditions were selected for subsequent testing.

The crystal structures of the samples were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD). As revealed in Fig. S4,† the Al peak at 39° disappears, indicating the successful preparation of the Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> MXene.<sup>37</sup> As for Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF (Fig. S5†), only the typical peaks of nickel foam at 44.5°, 51.9° and 76.4° are visible in the XRD, 38 while no characteristic peaks of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> can be found due to the strong diffraction signal of NF. The morphological structure of the nanomaterials was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). As shown in Fig. 2(a and b), the hybrid material shows scattered spherical structures with a diameter of about 50 nm, and the nanospheres can be seen uniformly attached to the skeleton of the nickel foam. Meanwhile, a Cr-free sample prepared via the same method exhibits a dense structure with large cracks (Fig. S7†). The SEM images verify that the introduction of Cr significantly improves the catalyst morphology, exposes more active sites, and can facilitate mass transfer in the UOR process. As shown in Fig. 2(c), the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) image presents some diffuse halo rings, indicating the existence of both amorphous and lowcrystallinity structures in Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>.<sup>39</sup> The two different crystal phase regions can be observed using high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM). As shown in Fig. 2(d-f), the amorphous region belongs to Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>. The interplanar spacings of 0.21 nm and 0.24 nm correspond to the (003) and (202) crystal planes of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, respectively (PDF#44-1418). Simultaneously, as shown in Fig. 2(e), the fracture and deformation of the lattice stripes indicates a certain number of defects in the structure, which may be attributed to the preparation conditions at room temperature and the lattice

Fig. 3 High resolution XPS spectra of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>. (a) Ni 2p, (b) Cr 2p, (c) S 2p, (d) Ti 2p

Paper Nanoscale

distortion caused by doping of heteroatoms. Amorphous materials have more unsaturated sites which can enhance the absorption of reactants and further improve electrocatalytic activity. 39,40 In a crystalline-amorphous structure, the amorphous part helps to provide an open framework and more infiltration pathways for ions, 41 and the crystalline part acts as an electron reservoir to decrease the reaction resistance. 42 In addition, the abundant defects may provide additional active sites and promote charge transfer, which is conducive to enhancing the performance of the UOR/HER.43 The element mapping in Fig. 2(g) shows a uniform distribution of Ni, Cr, S, O and Ti. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was also utilized to further investigate the chemical states and elemental composition of the prepared electrode. The survey spectrum confirms the presence of Ni, Cr, Ti and S elements on the electrode surface (Fig. S8†). All peaks were calibrated using the

peak of C 1s at 284.6 eV before fitting. In the high-resolution XPS spectra (Fig. 3), the two peaks of Ni 2p located at 856.09 eV and 873.69 eV correspond to Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub>, respectively, and the separation energy of 17.6 eV indicates the presence of Ni2+ and Ni3+,44 while the two peaks at 861.99 eV and 879.99 eV are satellite peaks (identified as "Sat."). 45 A slight negative shift could be observed after the introduction of Cr, which verifies the significant impact of Cr on the electronic structure of Ni. This originates from the electronegativity difference between Ni (1.9) and Cr (1.6), 19 and may have some influence on the electrocatalytic activity. In the Cr 2p spectrum, the two broad peaks located at 577 eV and 587 eV correspond to Cr 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Cr 2p<sub>1/2</sub>, respectively. 46,47 In the S 2p region, 161.99 eV and 163.59 eV derive from S 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and S 2p<sub>1/2</sub>, respectively, corresponding to metal-sulfur bonds. The other two peaks at 165.59 eV and 168.59 eV could correspond

Fig. 4 (a) Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves for Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> in 1.0 M KOH with and without urea. (b) Polarization curves. (c) The corresponding Tafel slopes derived from (b). (d) EIS patterns of different catalysts towards the UOR. (e) The corresponding double-layer capacitance for the UOR. (f) Chronopotentiometric curve of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> for UOR at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. (g) The comparison chart of UOR potential at current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm $^{-2}$  among Ni $_3$ S $_2$ /Cr(OH) $_3$ -Ti $_3$ C $_2$  and recently reported catalysts. (h) Potential of Ni $_3$ S $_2$ /Cr(OH) $_3$ -Ti $_3$ C $_2$  and recently reported catalysts.  $Ti_3C_2$  and  $Ni(OH)_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for the UOR.

to  $\rm S_2^{2-}$  and S–O bonds. <sup>18,48</sup> The Ti 2p spectrum of the MXene can be deconvoluted into four parts and all peaks appear as a  $\rm 2p_{1/2}$ – $\rm 2p_{3/2}$  doublet, including those of Ti<sup>2+</sup> (455.09 eV/460.99 eV), Ti<sup>3+</sup> (456.29 eV/462.89 eV), Ti–C (455.29 eV/461.89 eV), and Ti–O (458.39 eV). <sup>49,50</sup>

Nanoscale

To evaluate the electrochemical performance of the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/ Cr(OH)3-Ti3C2@NF electrode, the traditional three-electrode system was used to test the performance for the UOR. As expected and as shown in Fig. 4(a), the anodic current density increases sharply with applied potential after the addition of 0.5 M urea to the KOH solution, suggesting a distinct catalytic activity for the UOR rather than the OER. Interestingly, Cr (OH)3-Ti3C2 also exhibits a low overpotential, which may be attributed to the adsorption of Cr<sup>3+</sup> to the amino group (-NH<sub>2</sub>) in the initial urea molecule, promoting the decomposition of urea and accelerating the process of UOR. 15,51 As shown in Fig. 4(b), the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> hybrid requires only 1.45 V at a current density of 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which provides a significant advantage over Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> (1.52 V) and is also much lower than the values for Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> (1.52 V) and Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> (1.53 V) for these single-phase catalysts. Furthermore the electrocatalytic performance is also superior to those of many recently reported UOR catalysts (Table S2†). Such performance may be attributed to the crystalline/amorphous heterointerfaces between Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>, which can accelerate the absorption/desorption of urea molecules and gaseous products. 52,53 The layered structure of the MXene provides a stable conductive network. Meanwhile, high hydrophilicity and excellent aerophobic properties prevent the accumulation and aggregation of large bubbles, which is vital for the enhancement of water electrolysis performance at high current density.<sup>54</sup> To further verify the excellent UOR performance of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>, the reaction kinetics of the catalyst was characterized by Tafel slope analysis (Fig. 4c). The Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr (OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> hybrid material shows the lowest Tafel slope of 14.99 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, compared with other catalysts, which is consistent with the fastest current density rise of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>, suggesting its rapid electron-transfer rate and superior UOR kinetics. Then, the kinetics at the interface of the catalyst and electrolyte were analyzed by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> possesses a very low charge-transfer resistance ( $R_{ct} = 0.4 \Omega$ ), which indicates that it has the highest charge-transfer rate (Fig. 4d).<sup>55</sup> In addition,  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$  displays the smallest  $R_s$  ( $R_s = 1.19 \Omega$ ), proving a minor contact resistance between Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub> and the MXene, and demonstrating the importance of heteroatom doping and interfacial interactions for enhancing UOR activity. The Tafel and EIS results are consistent, demonstrating that the constructed hybridized structure greatly alleviates the issue of slow UOR kinetics. 43 Cyclic voltammetry was used to calculate the electrochemically active surface area of the catalyst (ECSA, expressed by the electrochemical double-layer capacitance,  $C_{\rm dl}^{56}$ ). Fig. 4(e) shows that, compared with other samples, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> with a higher linear slope (5.16 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) was proved to have a greater density of active sites, enhancing the intrinsic activity.<sup>39</sup> Electrochemical stability is also an important criterion for assessing the performance of catalysts and their potential for industrial application. As shown in Fig. 4(f), long-term chronopotentiometry tests were conducted at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for up to 90 h without electrolyte replacement, and the performance degradation was negligible. The attenuation is mainly due to the decreasing activity of the catalyst itself and the consumption of urea in the electrolyte. The XPS spectra of the main active elements are shown in Fig. S10.† After a 90 h test for the UOR, peaks for Ni<sup>3+</sup> and Cr<sup>6+</sup> appear, indicating that the two elements are partially oxidized to higher valence states. The increased valence of the transition metals is believed to facilitate the electronic transmission process involved in electrooxidation, which contributes to highly active UOR catalysts. 57,58 The well-designed Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> catalyst is shown to be a highly efficient UOR catalyst (Fig. 4g and h). The NF skeleton with MXene wrapping has a larger specific area, as well as superior stability. Moreover, the mild preparation method greatly alleviates the problem of nickel foam corrosion via the high-temperature sulfuration process, which considerably improves the overall stability and catalytic activity of the electrode.

Aiming to check the feasibility for overall urea electrolysis, the investigation of the HER performance was continued under the same conditions. The  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2@NF$ 

Fig. 5 (a) LSV curves of different catalysts in 1.0 M KOH and 0.5 M urea. (b) Potential of  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$  and  $Ni(OH)_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$  at -10 mA cm $^{-2}$  for the HER. (c) Nyquist plots of different samples for the HER. (d) Tafel plots for the HER derived from (a). (e) Chronopotentiometric curve of  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$  for the HER at a current density of -10 mA cm $^{-2}$ .

Paper

Fig. 6 (a) The polarization curves of  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$  for the UOR, HER and OER. (b) Comparison of LSV curves for urea electrolysis and water  $electrolysis. \ (c)\ The\ chronopotentiometric\ curve\ of\ Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2\ at\ a\ current\ density\ of\ 10\ mA\ cm^{-2}\ over\ 60\ h.$ 

electrode can drive -10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> current density at an overpotential of 169 mV (Fig. 5a), far below that of other catalysts (Fig. 5b). EIS and Tafel slope analysis were conducted to elucidate the reaction kinetics. As shown in Fig. 5(c), Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr (OH)3-Ti3C2 exhibits the smallest charge-transfer resistance of 1  $\Omega$ , which is consistent with LSV results indicating the best electrocatalytic activity. The Tafel slope of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> is only 60.22 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Fig. 5d), which is much lower than those of other catalysts, indicating faster HER kinetics of  $Ni_3S_2/Cr(OH)_3-Ti_3C_2$ . Chronopotentiometry measurements were performed to assess the durability of the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> electrode. At a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, only a negligible loss was observed after a 60 h test, confirming its remarkable stability for the HER.

Benefitting from the excellent UOR and HER activities of the electrode (Fig. 6a), a two-electrode system was constructed with Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF electrodes as the cathode and the anode. As shown in Fig. 6(b), the required potential is only 1.52 V at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a reduction of 180 mV compared with the potential required for conventional water splitting, showing that the catalyst has superior performance for urea electrolysis. The chronoamperometry test (Fig. 6(c)) shows that the performance of the two-electrode system at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> does not decay significantly over 60 h. As mentioned above, such outstanding bifunctional catalytic performance may be attributed to the following points: (i) the introduction of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> improves the overall conductivity of the electrode, promotes the release of gas from the electrode surface, and enables close contact of the catalyst and electrolyte, which further improves the efficiency of hydrogen production. (ii) The unique bimetallic crystalline/amorphous interface structure plays a vital role in

enhancing catalytic performance. (iii) The abundant defects provide additional active sites and promote charge transfer. Combining the above advantages, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> can be used as an effective bifunctional catalyst for the UOR and HER, providing a new direction for the electrooxidation of hydrogen evolution from urea in alkaline medium.

#### 3. Conclusions

In conclusion, a Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF catalyst is successfully synthesized by a facile absorption-ion exchange route. The Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF dual substrates endow Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub> with a large adsorption surface to expose more active sites, and dramatically enhance the hydrophilic and aerophobic properties of the electrode, reducing the accumulation of bubbles on the surface of the electrode under high current densities. More importantly, the synergy between the crystalline and amorphous phases of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub> significantly increases the number of electrochemically active sites and modulates the electronic properties of the hybrid material, which enhances the intrinsic activity and charge-transfer capability for the UOR. As a result, the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>@NF electrode exhibits superior catalytic activity with low potentials for the UOR (1.36 V) and HER (-169 mV) at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, with favorable stability. Furthermore, it achieves a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.52 V in the overall urea electrolysis system. Therefore, the present rational design and innovative synthesis method open up a new route for the large-scale production and application of urea-assisted water electrolysis catalysts.

Nanoscale Paper

## **Author contributions**

Yifeng Liu: Conceptualization, methodology, validation, data curation, writing – original draft. Qianqiao Chen: Methodology, validation, supervision, funding acquisition. Qin Zhong: Project administration, funding acquisition.

## Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (30920041108).

## References

- 1 L. Y. Hu, M. Y. Li, X. Q. Wei, H. J. Wang, Y. Wu, J. Wen, W. L. Gu and C. J. Zhu, Modulating interfacial electronic structure of CoNi LDH nanosheets with Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T MXene for enhancing water oxidation catalysis, *Chem. Eng. J.*, 2020, 398, 125605.
- 2 Y. Tang, F. Liu, W. Q. Liu, S. L. Mo, X. H. Li, D. X. Yang, Y. J. Liu and S. J. Bao, Multifunctional carbon-armored Ni electrocatalyst for hydrogen evolution under high current density in alkaline electrolyte solution, *Appl. Catal., B*, 2023, 321, 122081.
- 3 X. J. Cao, T. Z. Wang and L. F. Jiao, Transition-Metal (Fe, Co, and Ni)-Based Nanofiber Electrocatalysts for Water Splitting, *Adv. Fiber Mater.*, 2021, 3, 210–228.
- 4 W. K. Han, J. X. Wei, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, X. W. Peng, S. L. Zhao and Z. Q. Liu, Activating Lattice Oxygen in Layered Lithium Oxides through Cation Vacancies for Enhanced Urea Electrolysis, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2022, **61**, e202206050.
- 5 C. F. Li, L. J. Xie, J. W. Zhao, L. F. Gu, H. B. Tang, L. R. Zheng and G. R. Li, Interfacial Fe-O-Ni-O-Fe Bonding Regulates the Active Ni Sites of Ni-MOFs via Iron Doping and Decorating with FeOOH for Super-Efficient Oxygen Evolution, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2022, 61, e202116934.
- 6 W. J. Liu, Z. R. Xu, D. T. Zhao, X. Q. Pan, H. C. Li, X. Hu, Z. Y. Fan, W. K. Wang, G. H. Zhao and S. Jin, Efficient electrochemical production of glucaric acid and H<sub>2</sub> via glucose electrolysis, *Nat. Commun.*, 2020, **11**, 265.
- 7 X. H. Deng, G. Y. Xu, Y. J. Zhang, L. Wang, J. J. Zhang, J. F. Li, X. Z. Fu and J. L. Luo, Understanding the Roles of Electrogenerated Co<sup>3+</sup> and Co<sup>4+</sup> in Selectivity-Tuned 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Oxidation, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2021, **60**, 20535–20542.
- 8 T. Z. Wang, X. J. Cao and L. F. Jiao, Progress in Hydrogen Production Coupled with Electrochemical Oxidation of Small Molecules, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2022, **61**, e202213328.

- 9 Z. B. J. Hu, Z. B. Liang and R. Q. Zou, Designing Advanced Catalysts for Energy Conversion Based on Urea Oxidation Reaction, *Small*, 2020, **16**, 1906133.
- 10 B. K. Boggs, R. L. King and G. G. Botte, Urea electrolysis: direct hydrogen production from urine, *Chem. Commun.*, 2009, 4859–4861.
- 11 Z. Gao, Y. Wang, L. Xu, Q. Q. Tao, X. D. Wang, Z. Y. Zhou, Y. D. Luo, J. Y. Yu and Y. X. Huang, Optimizing local charge distribution of metal nodes in bimetallic metalorganic frameworks for efficient urea oxidation reaction, *Chem. Eng. J.*, 2022, 433, 133515.
- 12 X. F. Xu, Q. M. Deng, H. C. Chen, M. Humayun, D. L. Duan, X. Zhang, H. C. Sun, X. Ao, X. Y. Xue, A. Nikiforov, K. F. Huo, C. D. Wang and Y. J. Xiong, Metal-Organic Frameworks Offering Tunable Binary Active Sites toward Highly Efficient Urea Oxidation Electrolysis, *Research*, 2022, 2022, 9837109.
- 13 J. F. Xie, L. Gao, S. S. Cao, W. W. Liu, F. C. Lei, P. Hao, X. Y. Xia and B. Tang, Copper-incorporated hierarchical wire-on-sheet α-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoarrays as robust trifunctional catalysts for synergistic hydrogen generation and urea oxidation, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2019, 7, 13577–13584.
- 14 J. F. Xie, W. W. Liu, X. D. Zhang, Y. Q. Guo, L. Gao, F. C. Lei, B. Tang and Y. Xie, Constructing Hierarchical Wire-on-SheetNanoarrays in Phase-Regulated Cerium-Doped Nickel Hydroxide for Promoted Urea Electro-oxidation, ACS Mater. Lett., 2019, 1, 103–110.
- 15 M. Li, X. D. Wu, K. Liu, Y. F. Zhang, X. C. Jiang, D. M. Sun, Y. W. Tang, K. Huang and G. T. Fu, Nitrogen vacancies enriched Ce-doped Ni<sub>3</sub>N hierarchical nanosheets triggering highly-efficient urea oxidation reaction in urea-assisted energy-saving electrolysis, *J. Energy Chem.*, 2022, 69, 506–515.
- 16 T. Z. Wang, L. C. Miao, S. Y. Zheng, H. Y. Qin, X. J. Cao, L. Yang and L. F. Jiao, Interfacial Engineering of Ni<sub>3</sub>N/ Mo<sub>2</sub>N Heterojunctions for Urea-Assisted Hydrogen Evolution Reaction, ACS Catal., 2023, 13, 4091–4100.
- 17 Z. L. Ji, J. Liu, Y. Deng, Z. S. T. hang, Z. Zhang, P. Y. Du, Y. L. Zhao and X. Q. Lu, Accurate synergy effect of Ni–Sn dual active sites enhances electrocatalytic oxidation of urea for hydrogen evolution in alkaline medium, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2020, **8**, 14680–14689.
- 18 Y. F. Ren, C. T. Wang, W. Duan, L. H. Zhou, X. X. Pang, D. J. Wang, Y. Z. Zhen, C. M. Yang and Z. W. Gao, MoS<sub>2</sub>/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Schottky heterojunction regulating local charge distribution for efficient urea oxidation and hydrogen evolution, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.*, 2022, 628, 446–455.
- 19 H. Yang, M. W. Yuan, Z. M. Sun, D. Wang, L. Lin, H. F. Li and G. B. Sun, In Situ Construction of a Mn<sup>2+</sup>-Doped Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Electrode with Highly Enhanced Urea Oxidation Reaction Performance, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng., 2020, 8, 8348–8355.
- 20 C. F. Li, L. J. Xie, J. W. Zhao, L. F. Gu, J. Q. Wu and G. R. Li, Interfacial electronic modulation by Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>/NiFe-LDHs heterostructures for efficient oxygen evolution at high current density, *Appl. Catal.*, *B*, 2022, **306**, 121097.

Paper

21 Y. W. Liu, X. M. Hua, C. Xiao, T. F. Zhou, P. C. Huang, Z. P. Guo, B. C. Pan and Y. Xie, Heterogeneous Spin States in Ultrathin Nanosheets Induce Subtle Lattice Distortion To Trigger Efficient Hydrogen Evolution, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, 2016, **138**, 5087–5092.

- 22 Z. H. Xiao, Y. Wang, Y. C. Huang, Z. X. Wei, C. L. Dong, J. M. Ma, S. H. Shen, Y. F. Li and S. Y. Wang, Filling the oxygen vacancies in Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> with phosphorus: an ultra-efficient electrocatalyst for overall water splitting, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 2017, 10, 2563–2569.
- 23 Y. Y. Ding, X. Q. Du and X. S. Zhang, Rose-like Cu-doped Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers decorated with thin NiFe LDH nanosheets for high-efficiency overall water and urea electrolysis, *Appl. Surf. Sci.*, 2022, **584**, 152622.
- 24 Y. Zhang, H. R. Guo, M. Song, L. M. Sun and R. Song, Modulation of the morphology and electronic structure of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> nano-forests via P and Mo co-doping in polyoxometalates to promote the urea oxidation reaction, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2023, **11**, 3584–3593.
- 25 N. Chen, Y. X. Du, G. Zhang, W. T. Lu and F. F. Cao, Amorphous nickel sulfoselenide for efficient electrochemical urea-assisted hydrogen production in alkaline media, *Nano Energy*, 2021, 81, 105605.
- 26 Y. Lu, Y. H. Qin, M. Y. Chen, G. F. Liu, P. C. Qi, H. Wu and Y. W. Tang, Multi-dimensional Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/(Ni (OH)<sub>2</sub>(NiOOH)<sub>.167</sub>)<sub>.857</sub>@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> hierarchical structure for high-performance asymmetric supercapacitor, *Appl. Surf. Sci.*, 2023, **611**, 155625.
- 27 M. Naguib, V. N. Mochalin, M. W. Barsoum and Y. Gogotsi, 25th anniversary article: MXenes: a new family of two-dimensional materials, *Adv. Mater.*, 2014, **26**, 992–1005.
- 28 M. Naguib, K. M. Urtoglu, V. Presser, J. Lu, J. J. Niu, M. Heon, L. Hultman, Y. Gogotsi and M. W. Barsoum, Two-dimensional nanocrystals produced by exfoliation of Ti<sub>3</sub>AlC<sub>2</sub>, *Adv. Mater.*, 2011, 23, 4248–4253.
- 29 X. L. Liu, M. P. Wang, B. Y. Qin, Y. F. Zhang, Z. T. Liu and H. S. Fan, 2D-2D MXene/ReS<sub>2</sub> hybrid from Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> MXene conductive layers supporting ultrathin ReS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets for superior sodium storage, *Chem. Eng. J.*, 2022, **431**, 133796.
- 30 P. V. Shinde, P. Mane, C. B. hakraborty and C. S. Rout, Spinel NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles decorated 2D Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> MXene sheets for efficient water splitting: Experiments and theories, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.*, 2021, **602**, 232–241.
- 31 X. S. Li, F. Liu, D. P. Huang, N. Xue, Y. Y. Dang, Z. M. Q. hang, L. L. Zhang, B. Li, D. Liu, L. Wang, H. Liu and X. T. Tao, Nonoxidized MXene Quantum Dots Prepared by Microexplosion Method for Cancer Catalytic Therapy, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 2020, **30**, 2000308.
- 32 Z. L. Wang, W. J. Liu, Y. M. Hu, M. L. Guan, L. Xu, H. P. Li, J. Bao and H. M. Li, Cr-doped CoFe layered double hydroxides: Highly efficient and robust bifunctional electrocatalyst for the oxidation of water and urea, *Appl. Catal., B*, 2020, 272, 118959.
- 33 Z. J. Ji, Y. J. Song, S. H. Zhao, Y. Li, J. Liu and W. P. Hu, Pathway Manipulation via Ni, Co, and V Ternary Synergism

- to Realize High Efficiency for Urea Electrocatalytic Oxidation, *ACS Catal.*, 2022, **12**, 569–579.
- 34 T. Y. Pian, C. H. Yang, W. X. Que, Y. C. He, X. B. Liu, Y. Y. Luo, Y. T. Yin and L. B. Kong, Ni foam supported quasi-core-shell structure of ultrathin Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> nanosheets through electrostatic layer-by-layer self-assembly as high rate-performance electrodes of super capacitors, *J. Power Sources*, 2017, 369, 78–86.
- 35 T. Tang, C. H. Yang, Y. W. Yang, X. T. Yin, W. X. Que and J. F. Zhu, Three dimensional hierarchical network structure of S-NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> modified few-layer titanium carbides (MXene) flakes on nickel foam as a high efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution, *Electrochim. Acta*, 2019, **296**, 762–770.
- 36 Z. Z. Tian, Z. L. Qi, Y. H. Yang, H. L. Yan, Q. Q. Chen and Q. Zhong, Anchoring CuS nanoparticles on accordion-like Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> as high electrocatalytic activity counter electrodes for QDSSCs, *Inorg. Chem. Front.*, 2020, 7, 3727–3734.
- 37 H. Tang, R. H. Guo, M. J. Jiang, Y. Zhang, X. X. Lai, C. Cui, H. Y. Xiao, S. X. Jinag, E. H. Ren and Q. Qin, Construction of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> MXene@C@SnS with layered rock stratum structure for high-performance lithium storage, *J. Power Sources*, 2020, **462**, 228152.
- 38 H. J. Zhang, X. P. Li, A. Hähnel, V. Naumann, C. Lin, S. Azimi, S. L. Schweizer, A. W. Maijenburg and R. B. Wehrspohn, Bifunctional Heterostructure Assembly of NiFe LDH Nanosheets on NiCoP Nanowires for Highly Efficient and Stable Overall Water Splitting, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2018, 28, 1706847.
- 39 X. J. Xu, T. Guo, J. Y. Xia, B. L. Zhao, G. Su, H. L. Wang, M. H. Huang and A. Toghan, Modulation of the crystalline/amorphous interface engineering on Ni-P-O-based catalysts for boosting urea electrolysis at large current densities, *Chem. Eng. J.*, 2021, 425, 130514.
- 40 J. F. Zhang, Y. C. Hu, D. L. Liu, Y. Yu and B. Zhang, Enhancing OxygenEvolution Reaction at High Current Densities on Amorphous-Like Ni-Fe-S Ultrathin Nanosheets via Oxygen Incorporation and Electrochemical Tuning, *Adv. Sci.*, 2017, 4, 1600343.
- 41 M. M. Liang, M. S. Zhao, H. Y. Wang, Q. Y. Zheng and X. P. Song, Superior cycling stability of a crystalline/amorphous Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> core–shell heterostructure for aqueous hybrid supercapacitors, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2018, **6**, 21350–21359.
- 42 X. D. Yan, L. H. Tian and X. B. Chen, Crystalline/amorphous Ni/NiO core/shell nanosheets as highly active electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction, *J. Power Sources*, 2015, **300**, 336–343.
- 43 H. Li, S. L. Yang, W. Wei, M. M. Zhang, Z. F. Jiang, Z. X. Yan and J. M. Xie, Chrysanthemum-like FeS/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> heterostructure nanoarray as a robust bifunctional electrocatalyst for overall water splitting, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.*, 2022, 608, 536–548.
- 44 Z. J. Xie, L. Y. Liu, Y. X. Li, D. Y. Yu, L. H. Wei, L. Y. Han, Y. J. Hua, C. T. Wang, X. D. Zhao and X. Y. Liu, Synthesis of core-shell structured Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>@MnMoO<sub>4</sub> nanosheet arrays on Ni foam for asymmetric supercapacitors with superior performance, *J. Alloys Compd.*, 2021, 874, 159860.

45 Y. Q. Yang, K. Zhang, H. L. Ling, X. Li, H. C. Chan, L. C. Yang and Q. S. Gao, MoS<sub>2</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Heteronanorods as Efficient and Stable Bifunctional Electrocatalysts for Overall Water Splitting, ACS Catal., 2017, 7, 2357-2366.

Nanoscale

- 46 H. Shimizu and Y. Sanada, Collapse of Cr(OH)<sub>3</sub>/n-Si Schottky barrier and growth of atomic bridging-type surface photovoltages in Cr-deposited n-type Si(001) wafers, Surf. Interface Anal., 2012, 44, 1035-1038.
- 47 C. L. Dong, X. T. Yuan, X. Wang, X. Y. Liu, W. J. Dong, R. O. Wang, Y. H. Duan and F. O. Huang, Rational design of cobalt-chromium layered double hydroxide as a highly efficient electrocatalyst for water oxidation, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 11292-11298.
- 48 C. Y. Li, D. D. Zhang, J. Cao, P. F. Yu, J. Q. Qin and X. Y. Zhang, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Nanoparticles Anchored on d-Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub> Nanosheets with Enhanced Sodium Storage, ACS Appl. Energy Mater., 2021, 4, 2593-2599.
- 49 M. Z. Yu, Z. Y. Wang, J. S. Liu, F. Sun, P. J. Yang and J. S. Qiu, A hierarchically porous and hydrophilic 3D nickel-iron/MXene electrode for accelerating oxygen and hydrogen evolution at high current densities, Nano Energy, 2019, 63, 103880.
- 50 L. N. Tie, N. Li, C. F. Yu, Y. Liu, M. Yang, S. Y. Chen, H. Dong, S. Y. Sun, J. Y. Dou, S. X. Sun and J. H. Self-Supported, Nonprecious MXene/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Electrocatalysts for Efficient Hydrogen Generation in Alkaline Media, ACS Appl. Energy Mater., 2019, 2, 6931-6938.
- 51 L. P. Wang, Y. J. Zhu, Y. Z. Wen, S. Y. Li, C. Y. Cui, F. L. Ni, Y. X. Liu, H. P. Lin, Y. Y. Li and H. S. Peng, Regulating the Local Charge Distribution of Ni Active Sites for the Urea Oxidation Reaction, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2021, 60, 10577-10582.
- 52 Z. X. Wu, X. Y. Guo, Z. H. Zhang, M. Song, T. T. Jiao, Y. Zhu, J. Wang and X. Liu, Interface Engineering of MoS<sub>2</sub>

- for Electrocatalytic Performance Optimization Hydrogen Generation via Urea Electrolysis, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng., 2019, 7, 16577-16584.
- 53 X. J. Xu, X. B. Hou, P. Y. Du, C. H. Zhang, S. C. Zhang, H. L. Wang, A. Toghan and M. H. Huang, Controllable Ni/ NiO interface engineering on N-doped carbon spheres for boosted alkalinewater-to-hydrogen conversion by urea electrolysis, Nano Res., 2022, 15, 7124-7133.
- 54 F. Sun, J. S. Qin, Z. Y. Wang, M. Z. Yu, X. H. Wu, X. M. Sun and J. S. Qiu, Energy-saving hydrogen production by chlorine-free hybrid seawater splitting coupling hydrazine degradation, Nat. Commun., 2021, 12, 4182.
- 55 X. M. Wang, X. Zong, B. Liu, G. F. Long, A. Q. Wang, Z. Q. Xu, R. Song, W. G. Ma, H. Wang and C. Li, Boosting Electrochemical Water Oxidation on NiFe (oxy) Hydroxides Constructing Schottky Junction toward Electrolysis under Industrial Conditions, Small, 2022, 18, 2105544.
- 56 L. H. Zhou, C. M. Yang, W. C. Zhu, R. Li, X. X. Pang, Y. Z. Zhen, C. T. Wang, L. J. Gao, F. Fu, Z. W. Gao and Y. C. Liang, Boosting Alkaline Hydrogen Evolution Reaction via an Unexpected Dynamic Evolution of Molybdenum and Selenium on MoSe<sub>2</sub> Electrode, Adv. Energy Mater., 2022, 12, 2202367.
- 57 D. R. Li, W. J. Wan, Z. W. Wang, H. Y. Wu, S. X. Wu, T. Jiang, G. X. Cai, C. Z. Jiang and F. Ren, Self-Derivation and Surface Reconstruction of Fe-Doped Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Electrode Realizing High-Efficient and Stable Overall Water and Urea Electrolysis, Adv. Energy Mater., 2022, 12, 2201913.
- 58 Y. Y. Song, M. Z. Sun, S. C. Zhang, X. Y. Zhang, P. Yi, J. Z. Liu, B. L. Huang, M. H. Huang and L. X. Zhang, Alleviating the Work Function of Vein-Like Co<sub>x</sub>P by Cr Doping for Enhanced Seawater Electrolysis, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2023, 2214081.