---
source: Liu 等 - 2021 - Construction of self-supporting bimetallic sulfide arrays as a highly efficient electrocatalyst for.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 55.639s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:13:16.970667Z
---

# **INORGANIC** CHEMISTRY

**FRONTIERS** 

# **RESEARCH ARTICLE**

View Article Online
View Journal | View Issue

**Cite this:** *Inorg. Chem. Front.*, 2021, **8**, 4528

# Construction of self-supporting bimetallic sulfide arrays as a highly efficient electrocatalyst for bifunctional electro-oxidation†

Wenjun Liu,‡<sup>a</sup> Liming Dai,†<sup>b</sup> Yiming Hu,<sup>a</sup> Ku Jiang,<sup>a</sup> Qian Li,<sup>a</sup> Yilin Deng,<sup>a</sup> Junjie Yuan,<sup>a</sup> Jian Bao (1) \*\* and Yucheng Lei\*\*

Hydrogen production by water splitting is considered to be a feasible and energy-conserving way to develop renewable energy. Compared with water electrolysis which involves oxygen/hydrogen evolution reaction (OER/HER), the introduction of urea not only improves the energy conversion efficiency of water electrolysis but also involves the urea-rich wastewater treatment. In this work, a promising and novel bifunctional electrocatalytic material, bimetal nickel-cobalt sulfide nanosheet arrays on Ni Foam (NCS/NF), is developed as an electrocatalyst for water splitting. Benefiting from the sulfuration effect, which facilitates the formation of the high-valence states of Ni and Co during the oxidation process, the NCS/NF demonstrates a low potential of 1.46 V for the OER and 1.31 V for the UOR at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. When utilized in a water-splitting system with urea, the voltage is further reduced to 1.397 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The result lays the foundation for exploring the feasibility of low energy-intensive and large-scale hydrogen production in the future.

Received 19th May 2021, Accepted 6th August 2021 DOI: 10.1039/d1qi00640a rsc.li/frontiers-inorganic

# Introduction

The increasing energy crisis and ecological issues resulted from the excessive consumption of fossil fuels have stimulated strong interest to exploit hydrogen energy. 1-4 Among hydrogen production technologies, electrochemical water-splitting is an ideal candidate in terms of high efficiency and environmental friendliness. 5,6 In conventional water electrolysis, the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) take place at the cathode and anode, respectively.<sup>7</sup> However, as a half-reaction of water splitting, the OER suffers from sluggish kinetics that requires a considerably high overpotential, causing high energy consumption.8-10 To address this problem, replacing the OER with other more oxidizable anode reactions is ground-breaking for reducing the potential required to produce hydrogen and overall energy costs. Following this strategy, the electrocatalysis of more easily oxidizable molecules such as methanol,<sup>11</sup> ethanol,<sup>12</sup> and urea<sup>13,14</sup>

has been recently developed. In particular, assisted by the

In recent years, transition metal chalcogenides (TMCs), have attracted extensive attention in the field of electrolysis, attributed to their low cost, rich resources, and high electrical conductivity. To improve the electrocatalytic properties of the catalysts, the introduction of a second metal ion into monometallic-based catalysts could be an effective way to regulate the electronic structure. Although bimetallic sulfide species would be oxidized to the corresponding oxides/(oxy)hydroxides at oxidation potentials, it is surprising that the metal oxides/hydroxides reconstructed on the surface exhibit better electrocatalytic activity than directly prepared metal oxides/hydroxides. In this regard, Ni–Co bimetallic sulfide with a

electrocatalytic urea oxidation reaction (UOR) with a lower theoretical voltage of 0.37 V than the traditional water oxidation (1.23 V),  $^{15}$  the electrolysis process can not only generate  $\rm H_2$  more efficiently but also offer the prospect of urea-rich wastewater purification. It is worth noting that UOR involves a six-electron-transfer process (CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> + 60H<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  N<sub>2</sub> + 5H<sub>2</sub>O + CO<sub>2</sub> + 6e<sup>-</sup>), thus high-efficiency electrocatalysts are urgently required for the UOR toward energy-saving hydrogen generation.  $^{14,16-18}$  Up to now, Pt and Pd-based electrocatalysts exhibit excellent activities for the HER and UOR.  $^{19}$  However, their high cost, scarce resources, and insufficient durability still restrict their wide applications. Therefore, exploiting effective and Earth-abundant electrocatalysts for facilitating the catalytic processes is highly worthwhile.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>a</sup>School of Material Science & Engineering, Institute for Energy Research, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, 212013, P. R. China. E-mail: baojian@ujs.edu.cn,

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>b</sup>School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University of Science and Technology, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210094, P. R. China

 $<sup>\</sup>dagger\, Electronic$  supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: 10.1039/d1qi00640a

<sup>‡</sup>These authors contributed equally to this work.

spinel structure is particularly attractive for high electrochemical performance. In spinel sulfide, the trivalent cations usually occupy the octahedral ( $O_h$ ) positions, while divalent anions generally occupy the tetrahedral ( $T_d$ ) positions.  $^{26-30}$  It is generally believed that the  $O_h$  site in spinel plays a leading role in catalysis.  $^{31}$  Despite the composition control, the structural engineering of catalysts also contributes to the promotion of electrocatalytic activities because of their fast electron transfer, rapid mass transport, and large specific surface area.  $^{32-34}$  Also note that the 2D nanosheet structure provides a short diffusion path for electrons and ions. Besides, to further facilitate the charge transport and avoid the utilization of the polymer binder, electrocatalysts can be directly integrated or grown *in situ* on conductive substrates (such as nickel foam (NF), *etc.*) to facilitate electrocatalytic activities.  $^{35}$ 

In this work, vertically aligned bimetallic sulfide grown on NF (defined as NCS/NF) is designed and used as a multifunctional electrocatalyst for water splitting. The formation of high-valence-state Ni and Co as active sites during the catalytic process can provide optimized electrocatalytic activity, and the nanosheet array structure also has a large number of exposed catalytic active sites and promotes the penetration of electrolytes. Benefiting from the above advantages, NCS/NF exhibits superior multifunctional OER, HER, and UOR electrocatalytic properties. When assembling NCS/NF (used as both the anode and cathode) into the water splitting system assisted by urea, the system can achieve the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with a low voltage of 1.397 V, which is 233 mV less than that of the counterpart without urea. This work emphasizes the significance of the rational design of catalysts for energy-efficient hydrogen production in the future.

# Experimental

## Synthesis of Ni-Co precursor/NF

All reagents were used as received without further purification. 0.582 g of  $Co(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$ , 0.145 g of  $Ni(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$ , and 0.6 g of hexamethylenetetramine (HMT) were dissolved in 30 mL of methanol solution under stirring to form a clear solution. Then, pieces of Ni foam (NF) with the size of 1 cm  $\times$  3 cm were transferred into a Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave, and then sealed and maintained at 180 °C for 12 h. After the autoclave cooled down to room temperature, the sample was taken out and cleaned with deionized water and ethanol, and finally dried at 60 °C overnight in a vacuum oven.

## Synthesis of NCS/NF, NCS-0/NF, and NCO/NF

To prepare NCS/NF and NCS-0, Na<sub>2</sub>S-9H<sub>2</sub>O (with a different molar quantity of 6 and 0 mmol, respectively) was added into 30 mL of deionized water by magnetic stirring. Then, the above solution and above-prepared Ni–Co precursor/NF were transferred together into a 50 mL Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave and held at 120 °C for 8 h. The as-synthesized samples with the addition of 0 and 6 mmol Na<sub>2</sub>S-9H<sub>2</sub>O were named NCS-0/NF, and NCS/NF, respectively. These samples

were further washed with deionized water and ethanol, and then dried at 60 °C overnight in a vacuum oven. By contrast, Ni–Co oxide nanosheets named NCO/NF arrays on NF were synthesized by annealing Ni–Co precursor/NF in air at 300 °C for 2 h with a ramp rate of 5 °C min<sup>-1</sup>.

#### Characterization

The crystal structures of the as-prepared products were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Shimadzu XRD-6100 X-ray diffractometer) with Cu K $\alpha$  radiation ( $\lambda$  = 1.54 Å). Morphological and lattice structural information was examined with scanning electron microscopy (SEM, JEOL JSM-7800F), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM, Tecnai G2 F30 USA FEI). Raman spectra were recorded using a Raman spectrometer (DXR) with a 514 nm laser. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, VG Multi Lab 2000 system) was performed to study the chemical compositions of electrocatalysts.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

The electrochemical tests were carried out on an electrochemical workstation (CHI 660E) utilizing a three-electrode system in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M KOH + 0.33 M urea electrolytes. The catalyst grown on NF with 1 cm<sup>2</sup> served as the working electrode. A carbon rod/platinum sheet was used as the counter electrode for the HER/OER process, respectively, and an Hg/HgO electrode was used as the reference electrode. All the resulting potentials were transformed from Hg/HgO to a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the following Nernst equation:  $E (RHE) = E (Hg/HgO) + 0.098 + 0.059 \times pH$ . The cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurement with a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> was used for activating the working electrodes before the main measurements. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) tests were performed with the scan rate of 1 mV  $s^{-1}$ . Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted at a frequency between 0.01 Hz and 100 kHz. The OER and HER LSV curves were studied at a rotation rate of 300 rpm in 1.0 M KOH solution. All the samples were tested under the same conditions. For the water splitting test, the NCS/NF and NCO/NF catalysts served as both the cathode and anode.

## Results and discussion

The NCS/NF sample was obtained through the sulfuration of NiCo hydroxide, and the crystal phase was investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Fig. 1a, the XRD pattern of NCS/NF mainly contains two series of peaks. Besides typical diffraction peaks at 44.5°, 51.7° and 76.5° from Ni foam, peaks at 26.8°, 31.5°, 38.1°, 50.1° and 55.3° can be indexed to (220), (311), (400), (511) and (440) of CoNi<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub> (JCPDS no. 24-0334), respectively. As shown in Fig. S7a,† the XRD pattern of NCO/NF reveals that NCO/NF mainly contains two characteristic peaks locating at 31.0°, 36.7°, 44.5°, 59.1° and 65.0°, indexed to (220), (311), (400), (511), and (440) of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (JCPDS no. 20-0781), respectively. Meanwhile, the XRD pattern of NCS-0/

Fig. 1 (a) XRD pattern of the NCS/NF sample. XPS spectra of (b) Co 2p, (c) Ni 2p, and (d) S 2p for the NCS/NF sample.

NF proves that besides NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and NF, the diffraction peaks of NiCo-LDH locating at 11.6°, 23.3°, 39.2°, and 46.6° can also be observed (Fig. S3a†). The elemental compositions of the assynthesized samples were investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Fig. S1† is the survey XPS spectrum of the NCS/NF sample, which indicates the presence of Ni, Co, and S elements. In Fig. 1b, for the Co 2p spectrum, two peaks at 778.5 and 793.6 eV can be ascribed to Co  $2p_{1/2}$  and Co  $2p_{3/2}$  of Co<sup>3+</sup>, respectively, and the other two peaks at 781 and 796.6 eV are characteristic of Co<sup>2+</sup> ions.<sup>3</sup> As displayed in Fig. 1c, the deconvoluted peaks at 852.8 eV for Ni 2p3/2 and 873.2 eV for Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> are due to the spin-orbit characteristics of Ni<sup>2+</sup>, while peaks at 855.8 eV and 874.8 eV are indicative of Ni<sup>3+</sup>.4 The S 2p spectrum of NCS/NF in Fig. 1d is matched to three peaks. The peaks located at 161.7 and 162.6 eV correspond to S 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and S  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively. The peak at 163.7 eV is ascribed to metalsulfide bonds, 36 demonstrating the existence of the Ni-Co-S phase, which is consistent with the XRD result.

The morphology of the NCS/NF catalyst could be observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). For comparison, the structure of the oxidized sample, named NCO/NF, was also investigated. Low-magnification SEM images of NCS/NF on Ni foam (NF) suggest the complete coverage of nanosheets in the form of highly oriented nanoarrays (Fig. 2a). From the highresolution SEM images in Fig. 2b, the nanosheet array formed internetworked 3D microporous surfaces which not only expose a large number of active sites but also ensure the rapid dissipation of the gaseous products generated. Moreover, the SEM measurements of NCO and NCS-0 were also conducted and the results are displayed in Fig. S2a, b and S3b, c.† The networked structures of NCO/NF and NCS-0/NF also exhibit similar vertical nanosheet array morphologies. Compared with the TEM image of the NCO nanosheet, the NCS nanosheet in Fig. 2c shows some small holes that resulted from the etchinglike effect of S<sup>2-</sup> ions. The corresponding high-resolution TEM

Fig. 2 (a) Low and (b) high magnification images of NCS/NF. (c) TEM images and (d) HR-TEM image of the NCS nanosheet. (e) EDX elemental mapping images of the NCS sample.

(HR-TEM) image of NCS/NF (Fig. 2d) reveals two well-resolved lattice fringes with interplanar distances of about 0.283 nm and 0.27 nm, which could be well indexed to the (311) and (222) planes of CoNi<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub>. Elemental mapping in TEM images (Fig. 2e and S2e<sup>†</sup>) of the NCS and NCO nanosheets indicates a homogeneous elemental distribution in the two samples.

To verify the catalytic activity of NCS/NF, electrochemical measurements were carried out in a three-electrode alkaline electrolyzer (1.0 M KOH) with NCS/NF as the working electrode, Pt wire as the counter electrode, and Hg/HgO electrode as the reference electrode. The electrocatalytic activities of the compared samples were also tested. As displayed in Fig. 3a, the NCS/NF shows the lowest overpotential of 230 and 307 mV for the OER to achieve 10 and 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> when compared with NCO/NF and NCS-0/NF. As another key parameter, the Tafel slope was used for evaluating the OER performance. As shown in Fig. 3b, NCS/NF demonstrates the smallest Tafel slope among these electrocatalysts in the OER process, thus indicating its favorable OER activity. Fig. 3c shows that NCS/ NF required only 230 mV to obtain a current response of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is significantly smaller than that of Fe-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/FeNi foil (282 mV),<sup>37</sup> Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NF (260 mV),<sup>38</sup> NiCo<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub>/NF (260 mV), 39 CNTs@Co-S/CP (306 mV), 40 NiCoFeP (273 mV), 41 NiCoFeB (284 mV), 42 Ni<sub>3</sub>Se<sub>4</sub> nanorod (243 mV), 43 NiFe-NiCoO<sub>2</sub> (286 mV), 44 Co<sub>2</sub>NiS<sub>2.4</sub>(OH)<sub>1.2</sub> (279 mV), 45 and CuO@NiCo LDH/ CF (256 mV),46 and is also superior to those for other recent catalysts (see Table S1†).

To further investigate the intrinsic OER performance and exclude the effect of the electrochemical surface area, the

Fig. 3 (a) OER performances of NCS/NF and the compared samples. (b) Tafel plots of NCS/NF and the compared samples. (c) The overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> compared to other recently reported catalysts. (d) Capacitive current densities of different electrodes plotted against the scan rate. (e) LSV curves of all samples normalized by  $C_{\rm dl}$ . (f) Nyquist plots of the NCS/NF and other electrodes.

current densities were normalized using  $C_{\rm dl}$ . As shown in Fig. 3d and Fig. S3,† the NCS/NF exhibits a higher  $C_{dl}$  value than that of the other samples, exposing that NCS/NF has a higher surface roughness which thereby provides more active sites. After normalization by  $C_{\rm dl}$  (Fig. 3e), NCS/NF still displays the most favorable intrinsic OER activity, which indicates the beneficial influence of sulfuration. In attempts to explore the catalytic kinetic process of catalysts, electrochemical impedance spectrum (EIS) measurements were performed. Fig. 3f and Table S2† reveal that the NCS/NF possess the lowest charge transfer resistance ( $R_{\rm ct}$ , 0.739  $\Omega$ ) among the three electrocatalysts for the OER, highlighting the best charge transfer efficiency toward the catalytic process. As shown in Fig. S5,† the electronic conductance of NCS/NF was measured by the four-probe method and showed a high value of 9700 S m<sup>-1</sup>.

The OER performance of NCS/NF is further evaluated by the faradaic efficiency. When applied at a current density of 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, NCS/NF shows a high faradaic efficiency of 98.72% (Fig. 4a). Furthermore, the chronoamperometry tests in Fig. 4b show that NCS/NF can steadily drive at 15, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 72 000 s, thus indicating its long-term durability. To further understand the reasons for the superior OER performance, the post-OER sample was collected and analyzed. As displayed in Fig. 4c and d, the post-test NCS/NF catalyst still retains the phase structure and nanosheet morphology. The high-resolution XPS spectra of the NCS and NCO catalysts after

Fig. 4 (a) Faradaic efficiency of NCS/NF at 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. (b) The stability testing of NCS/NF at the current densities of 15, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. (c) XRD patterns of the NCS/NF sample before and after the OER processes. (d) TEM image of the NCS/NF nanosheet after the OER process. (e) Co 2p, and (f) Ni 2p spectra of the NCS/NF before and after the OER processes, respectively

the OER are shown in Fig. 4e-f, Fig. S5, and S6b-d.† It is observed that the Co3+/Co2+ and Ni3+/Ni2+ ratio increased and the peaks of S<sup>2-</sup> decreased after the OER in the NCS, indicating a part of Co and Ni ions is oxidized to higher valence states. By contrast, the ratio of Co<sup>3+</sup>/Co<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> in NCO after the OER remains unchanged. These results suggest the surface reconstruction for the formation of cobalt/nickel oxyhydroxide which acts as real active sites for the OER is more convenient to form on the NSC/NF sample which benefited from the S<sup>2-</sup>. In order to further demonstrate the formation of MOOH, we performed in situ Raman spectra of the NCS/NF catalyst in the OER. For the OER, as shown in Fig. S8a and b,† the NCS nanosheet shows three major peaks at 330 cm<sup>-1</sup> and 383 cm $^{-1}$  before the OER, indexed to the  $T_{2g}$  and  $A_{1g}$  of spinel sulfide, respectively.<sup>47</sup> Alongside the applied potential, two Raman characteristic peaks at 473 and 558 cm<sup>-1</sup> appeared, which belong to active MOOH species. 48 The MOOH formed on the surface could act as the active sites, thus facilitating the OER processes.49

To evaluate the bifunctional catalytic activities, the HER performances for NCS/NF, NCS-0/NF, and NCO/NF were tested in 1.0 M KOH. As presented in Fig. 5a-c, NCS/NF also shows the lowest overpotential, Tafel slope, and charge transfer resistance among the three samples, thus demonstrating its faster HER reaction kinetics. As depicted in Fig. S10,† the faradaic

Fig. 5 (a) LSV curves of NCS/NF and the compared samples for the HER in 1 M KOH. (b) The corresponding Tafel plots. (c) Nyquist plots of NCS/NF and the compared samples at a constant potential of -1.1 V for the HER in 1.0 M KOH. (d) The durability test of the HER for NCS/NF at  $-10~\mathrm{mA~cm^{-2}}$  for about 30 h. (e) LSV curve of water splitting for NCS/NF and NCO/NF samples in a two-electrode configuration, inset is the schematic diagram of the water-splitting electrolyzer. (f) Durability test of the electrolyzer at a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte.

efficiency for the HER process is close to 98.8%. Besides, as shown in Fig. 5d, the HER electrolysis curve of NCS/NF exhibits sustained catalytic current for 30 h, thus indicating its superior stability. For the HER, as shown in Fig. S8c,† with the decrease of the applied voltage, the shape and intensity of the characteristic Raman peak were basically unchanged. As displayed in Fig. S9a,† the position and shape of the main peaks in XRD were almost retained after the HER, revealing the stable composition and structure of the NCS/NF sample. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. S9b-d,† the ratios of Co<sup>3+</sup>/Co<sub>2</sub>+ and Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup>, and the peaks of S<sup>2-</sup> in NCS after the HER remain basically unchanged. Attributed to the superior activities for the OER and HER, the water electrolyzer can be built using NCS/NF as both the anode and cathode. In Fig. 5e and f, the two-electrode setup NCS/NF (+, -) shows a high-efficiency electrocatalytic activity affording 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.68 V as well as 20 h durability. The above data suggest the favorable influence of sulfuration in enhancing the bifunctional catalytic activities. Based on this, the NCS/NF catalyst is a promising catalyst for overall water splitting.

To further verify the role of sulfuration for electro-oxidation, we also tested the oxidation catalytic performances of other small molecules, that is, the urea oxidation reaction (UOR). The UOR performance of NCS/NF was studied by LSV in 1.0 M

Fig. 6 (a) UOR activities of NCS/NF and the compared samples with and without 0.33 M urea in 1.0 M KOH, inset (a) is the corresponding Tafel plots. (b) The compared voltage at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with recently reported superior UOR electrocatalysts. (c) Nyquist plots of the NCS/NF and NCO/NF electrodes. (d) Polarization curves of NCS/NF and NCO/NF for water splitting with and without 0.33 M urea in 1.0 M KOH. (e) Chronoamperometry curve of the NCS/NF with and without 0.33 M urea in 1.0 M KOH. (f) The electrolysis-water device was driven by a 1.5 V commercial battery driven in 1.0 M KOH with 0.33 M urea.

KOH + 0.33 M urea. As observed in Fig. 6a, compared with the OER, the higher UOR performance of NCS/NF shows a lower potential of 1.31 V to attain 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The UOR performance of NCO/NF is also much lower than that of NCS/NF. As displayed in Fig. 6b, it can be seen that the NCS/NF electrode (1.312 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) outperforms the most reported UOR electrocatalysts like S-MnO<sub>2</sub> (1.33 V), NiSe<sub>2</sub> (1.36 V), NiO nanosheet array (1.38 V), 51 Ni(OH)2 nanotube/NF (1.41 V), 52 Fe 11.1%-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NF (1.44 V),<sup>53</sup> NiCo alloy (1.53 V),<sup>54</sup> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanocube array (1.55 V),55 and other recently reported UOR materials listed in Table S4,† thus indicating the beneficial role of the sulfuration effect. An overall water-splitting electrolyzer assisted with urea was fabricated by using NCS/NF as both anode and cathode in Fig. 6c. The potential of water electrolysis at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is greatly reduced to 1.397 V, which is about 131 mV lower than that of NCO/NF (1.578 V). The EIS tests results (Fig. 6d and Table S5†) further prove a better charge transfer process for NCS. Besides, the overall water-splitting device also runs stably for a long time (Fig. 6e). As shown in Fig. 6f, we further build up the 1.5 V dry battery-driven overall water-splitting configurations, thus attaining the goal of efficient hydrogen production. Attributed to the above superiorities, bimetallic sulfide indeed possesses

Fig. 7 (a) Ni 2p, and (b) Co 2p spectra of the NCS/NF before and after the UOR process, respectively. (c) Ni 2p, and (d) Co 2p spectra of the NCO/NF before and after the UOR process, respectively.

better electrocatalytic performances for electrocatalytic processes.

To further investigate the role of S2- for the superior electrocatalytic activities, the post-UOR samples were also analyzed by XPS (Fig. 7 and Fig. S7†). As displayed in Fig. 7a and c for Ni 2p, the Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> ratio of NCS/NF after the UOR increased much higher than that of NCO/NF, indicating that a part of Ni ions is oxidized to higher valence states and the Ni<sup>3+</sup> ions promote the superior UOR activity of NCS/NF. Similar to Ni 2p, Fig. 7b and d show that the proportion of Co<sup>3+</sup> increased in NCS/NF, which does not change in NCO/NF. These highvalence states Ni and Co could act as the active sites in the UOR process. Based on these data, the sulfuration effect could facilitate Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Co<sup>3+</sup> to form active Ni<sup>3+</sup> and Co<sup>3+</sup>, thus benefiting the OER and UOR processes.

## Conclusions

In summary, a bimetal Ni-Co sulfide nanosheet array on Ni Foam is used as a promising multifunctional electrocatalyst for water splitting. Profiting from the sulfuration process, the formation of high-valence state Ni and Co ions can promote bifunctional catalytic performances. Meanwhile, nanosheet structure could provide more exposed catalytic active sites and also be beneficial to reduce the mass transport resistance of ions. The obtained NCS/NF catalyst exhibits superior electrocatalytic activities with ultralow overpotential, low Tafel slope, and favorable stability. Impressively, at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the water-splitting voltage with urea of NCS/NF is only 1.397 V superior to most reported bifunctional catalysts. This work provides a new opportunity for using bimetallic sulfides for the energy-saving urea-assisted electrolytic production of hydrogen.

# Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

# Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China for Youths (No. 21905118), China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No. 2020M673037 and 2019M651716), Jiangsu Provincial Agricultural Science and Technology Independent Innovation Fund (CX(20)3081), and a Project Funded by the Priority Academic Program Development of the Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions.

# Notes and references

- 1 A. Oh, H. Y. Kim, H. Baik, B. Kim, N. K. Chaudhari, S. H. Joo and K. Lee, Topotactic Transformations in an Icosahedral Nanocrystal to Form Efficient Water-Splitting Catalysts, Adv. Mater., 2019, 31, 1805546.
- 2 A. Alarawi, V. Ramalingam and J. He, Recent advances in emerging single atom confined two-dimensional materials for water splitting applications, Mater. Today Energy, 2019, **11**, 1–23.
- 3 W. Liu, D. Rao, J. Bao, L. Xu, Y. Lei and H. Li, Strong coupled spinel oxide with N-rGO for high-efficiency ORR/ OER bifunctional electrocatalyst of Zn-air batteries, J. Energy Chem., 2021, 57, 428-435.
- 4 W. Liu, J. Bao, L. Xu, M. Guan, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, Y. Huang, J. Xia, Y. Lei and H. Li, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> ultrathin nanosheets with oxygen vacancies as bifunctional electrocatalysts for Zn-air battery, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2019, 478, 552-559.
- 5 C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen and X. Wang, Bimetal Schottky Heterojunction Boosting Energy-Saving Hydrogen Production from Alkaline Water via Urea Electrocatalysis, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2020, 30, 2000556.
- 6 W. Song, M. Xu, X. Teng, Y. Niu, S. Gong, X. Liu, X. He and Z. Chen, Construction of self-supporting, hierarchically structured caterpillar-like NiCo2S4 arrays as an efficient trifunctional electrocatalyst for water and urea electrolysis, Nanoscale, 2021, 13, 1680-1688.
- 7 A. Zagalskaya and V. Alexandrov, Role of Defects in the Interplay between Adsorbate Evolving and Lattice Oxygen Mechanisms of the Oxygen Evolution Reaction in RuO2 and IrO<sub>2</sub>, ACS Catal., 2020, 10, 3650-3657.
- 8 W. Liu, J. Bao, L. Xu, M. Guan and Y. Lei, Chromiummodulated multifunctional electrocatalytic activities of spinel oxide for Zn-air batteries and overall water splitting, I. Power Sources, 2020, 479, 229099.
- 9 M. P. Browne, Z. Sofer and M. Pumera, Layered and two dimensional metal oxides for electrochemical energy conversion, Energy Environ. Sci., 2019, 12, 41-58.
- 10 C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, Energy-Saving Electrolytic Hydrogen

Generation: Ni<sub>2</sub>P Nanoarray as a High-Performance Non-Noble-Metal Electrocatalyst, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2017, **56**, 842–846.

Research Article

- 11 T. Take, K. Tsurutani and M. Umeda, Hydrogen production by methanol-water solution electrolysis, J. Power Sources, 2007, 164, 9-16.
- 12 L. Dai, Q. Qin, X. Zhao, C. Xu, C. Hu, S. Mo, Y. O. Wang, S. Lin, Z. Tang and N. Zheng, Electrochemical Partial Reforming of Ethanol into Ethyl Acetate Using Ultrathin Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Nanosheets as a Highly Selective Anode Catalyst, ACS Cent. Sci., 2016, 2, 538-544.
- 13 X. Zhu, X. Dou, J. Dai, X. An, Y. Guo, L. Zhang, S. Tao, J. Zhao, W. Chu, X. C. Zeng, C. Wu and Y. Xie, Metallic Nickel Hydroxide Nanosheets Give Superior Electrocatalytic Oxidation of Urea for Fuel Cells, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55, 12465-12469.
- 14 S. Chen, J. Duan, A. Vasileff and S. Z. Qiao, Size Fractionation of Two-Dimensional Sub-Nanometer Thin Manganese Dioxide Crystals towards Superior Urea Electrocatalytic Conversion, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, **55**, 3804–3808.
- 15 C. Xiao, S. Li, X. Zhang and D. R. MacFarlane, MnO<sub>2</sub>/ MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/Ni heterostructure with quadruple hierarchy: a bifunctional electrode architecture for overall urea oxidation, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5, 7825-7832.
- 16 D. Liu, T. Liu, L. Zhang, F. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, High-performance urea electrolysis towards less energy-intensive electrochemical hydrogen production using a bifunctional catalyst electrode, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5, 3208-3213.
- 17 P. Babar, A. Lokhande, V. Karade, B. Pawar, M. G. Gang, S. Pawar and J. H. Kim, Bifunctional 2D Electrocatalysts of Transition Metal Hydroxide Nanosheet Arrays for Water Splitting and Urea Electrolysis, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng., 2019, 7, 10035-10043.
- 18 W. Yan, D. Wang and G. G. Botte, Template-assisted synthesis of Ni-Co bimetallic nanowires for urea electrocatalytic oxidation, J. Appl. Electrochem., 2015, 45, 1217-1222.
- 19 Y. Tong, P. Chen, M. Zhang, T. Zhou, L. Zhang, W. Chu, C. Wu and Y. Xie, Oxygen Vacancies Confined in Nickel Molybdenum Oxide Porous Nanosheets for Promoted Electrocatalytic Urea Oxidation, ACS Catal., 2018, 8, 1–7.
- 20 N. Yao, P. Li, Z. Zhou, R. Meng, G. Cheng and W. Luo, Nitrogen Engineering on 3D Dandelion-Flower-Like CoS<sub>2</sub> for High-Performance Overall Water Splitting, Small, 2019, **15**, 1901993.
- 21 J. Song, C. Zhu, B. Z. Xu, S. Fu, M. H. Engelhard, R. Ye, D. Du, S. P. Beckman and Y. Lin, Bimetallic Cobalt-Based Phosphide Zeolitic Imidazolate Framework: CoPx Phase-Dependent Electrical Conductivity and Hydrogen Atom Adsorption Energy for Efficient Overall Water Splitting, Adv. Energy Mater., 2017, 7, 1601555.
- 22 T. Liu, X. Ma, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, Y. Ma, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun and L. Chen, Mn Doping of CoP Nanosheets Array: An Efficient Electrocatalyst for Hydrogen Evolution

- Reaction with Enhanced Activity at All pH Values, ACS Catal., 2017, 7, 98-102.
- 23 L. Yan, L. Cao, P. Dai, X. Gu, D. Liu, L. Li, Y. Wang and X. Zhao, Metal-Organic Frameworks Derived Nanotube of Nickel-Cobalt Bimetal Phosphides as Highly Efficient Electrocatalysts for Overall Water Splitting, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2017, 27, 1703455.
- 24 F. Lyu, Q. Wang, S. M. Choi and Y. Yin, Noble-Metal-Free Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Evolution, Small, 2019, 15, 1804201.
- 25 O. Mabayoje, A. Shoola, B. R. Wygant and C. B. Mullins, The Role of Anions in Metal Chalcogenide Oxygen Evolution Catalysis: Electrodeposited Thin Films of Nickel Sulfide as "Pre-catalysts", ACS Energy Lett., 2016, 1, 195-
- 26 W. Liu, J. Zhang, Z. Bai, G. Jiang, M. Li, K. Feng, L. Yang, Y. Ding, T. Yu, Z. Chen and A. Yu, Controllable Urchin-Like NiCo<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub> Microsphere Synergized with Sulfur-Doped Bifunctional Catalyst for as Rechargeable Zn-Air Battery, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2018, 28, 1706675.
- 27 P. Wang, X. Liu, Y. Yan, J. Cao, J. Feng and J. Qi, Exploring CoP core-shell nanosheets by Fe and Zn dual cation doping as efficient electrocatalysts for overall water splitting, Catal. Sci. Technol., 2020, 10, 1395-1400.
- 28 H. Liu, D. Zhao, M. Dai, X. Zhu, F. Qu, A. Umar and X. Wu, PEDOT decorated CoNi<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub> nanosheets electrode as bifunctional electrocatalyst for enhanced electrocatalysis, Chem. Eng. J., 2022, 428, 131183.
- 29 X. Li, Z. Kou, S. Xi, W. Zang, T. Yang, L. Zhang and J. Wang, Porous NiCo<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub>/FeOOH nanowire arrays with rich sulfide/hydroxide interfaces enable high OER activity, Nano Energy, 2020, 78, 105230.
- 30 W. He, C. Wang, H. Li, X. Deng, X. Xu and L. Zhai, Ultrathin and Porous Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/CoNi<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub> 3D-Network Structure for Superhigh Energy Density Asymmetric Supercapacitors, Adv. Energy Mater., 2017, 7, 1700983.
- 31 M. Chauhan, K. P. Reddy, C. S. Gopinath and S. Deka, Copper Cobalt Sulfide Nanosheets Realizing a Promising Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution Reaction, ACS Catal., 2017, 7, 5871-5879.
- 32 E. Hu, J. Ning, D. Zhao, C. Xu, Y. Lin, Y. Zhong, Z. Zhang, Y. Wang and Y. Hu, A Room-Temperature Postsynthetic Ligand Exchange Strategy to Construct Mesoporous Fe-Doped CoP Hollow Triangle Plate Arrays for Efficient Electrocatalytic Water Splitting, Small, 2018, 14, 1704233.
- 33 Q. Wang, H. Zhao, F. Li, W. She, X. Wang, L. Xu and H. Jiao, Mo-doped Ni<sub>2</sub>P hollow nanostructures: highly efficient and durable bifunctional electrocatalysts for alkaline water splitting, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2019, 7, 7636-
- 34 Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, T. Ren and Z. Yuan, Self-Supported Cobalt Phosphide Mesoporous Nanorod Arrays: A Flexible and Bifunctional Electrode for Highly Active Electrocatalytic Water Reduction and Oxidation, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2015, 25, 7337-7347.

- 36 Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y. Kang, Y. Bando and Y. Yamauchi, Elaborately assembled core-shell structured metal sulfides as a bifunctional catalyst for highly efficient electrochemical overall water splitting, Nano Energy, 2018, 47, 494-502.
- 37 C. Yuan, Z. Sun, Y. Jiang, Z. Yang, N. Jiang, Z. Zhao, U. Y. Qazi, W. Zhang and A. Xu, One-Step In Situ Growth of Iron-Nickel Sulfide Nanosheets on FeNi Alloy Foils: High-Performance and Self-Supported Electrodes for Water Oxidation, Small, 2017, 13, 1604161.
- 38 L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen and X. Zou, High-Index Faceted Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Nanosheet Arrays as Highly Active and Ultrastable Electrocatalysts for Water Splitting, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2015, 137, 14023-14026.
- 39 A. Sivanantham, P. Ganesan and S. Shanmugam, Hierarchical NiCo2S4 Nanowire Arrays Supported on Ni Foam: Efficient and Durable Electrocatalyst for Oxygen and Hydrogen Evolution Reactions, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2016, 26, 4661-4672.
- 40 J. Wang, H. Zhong, Z. Wang, F. Meng and X. Zhang, Three-Dimensional Carbon Paper/Carbon Integrated Tubes/Cobalt-Sulfide Sheets as an Efficient Electrode for Overall Water Splitting, ACS Nano, 2016, 10, 2342-2348.
- 41 Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y. Sugahara and Y. Yamauchi, Hollow Porous Heterometallic Phosphide Nanocubes for Enhanced Electrochemical Water Splitting, Small, 2018, 14, 1802442.
- 42 Y. Li, B. Huang, Y. Sun, M. Luo, Y. Yang, Y. Qin, L. Wang, C. Li, F. Lv, W. Zhang and S. Guo, Multimetal Borides Nanochains as Efficient Electrocatalysts for Overall Water Splitting, Small, 2019, 15, 1804212.
- 43 J. Zhang, X. Tian, T. He, S. Zaman, M. Miao, Y. Yan, K. Qi, Z. Dong, H. Liu and B. Y. Xia, In situ formation of Ni<sub>3</sub>Se<sub>4</sub> nanorod arrays as versatile electrocatalysts for electrochemical oxidation reactions in hybrid water electrolysis, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 15653-15658.
- 44 R. Shi, J. Wang, Z. Wang, T. Li and Y. Song, Unique NiFe-NiCoO2 hollow polyhedron as bifunctional electrocatalysts for water splitting, J. Energy Chem., 2019, 33, 74.
- 45 B. Wang, C. Tang, H. Wang, X. Chen, R. Cao and Q. Zhang, Core-branch CoNi hydroxysulfides with versatilely regulated electronic and surface structures for superior oxygen evolution electrocatalysis, J. Energy Chem., 2019, 38, 8.

- 46 Y. Cao, T. Wang, X. Li, L. Zhang, Y. Luo, F. Zhang, A. M. Asiri, J. Hu, Q. Liu and X. Sun, A hierarchical CuO@NiCo layered double hydroxide core-shell nanoarray as an efficient electrocatalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction, Inorg. Chem. Commun., 2021, 8, 3049.
- 47 C. E. Beckett-Brown, A. M. McDonald and W. Zhe, A Crystallo-graphically Oriented Intergrowth of Siegenite (CoNi<sub>2</sub>S<sub>4</sub>) and Millerite from the Morokweng Impact Structure, South Africa: Chemistry, Texture, and Origin, Can. Mineral., 2018, 56, 705-722.
- 48 Z. Shi, Z. Yu, R. Jiang, J. Huang, Y. Hou, J. Chen, Y. Zhang, H. Zhu, B. Wang and H. Pang, MOF-derived M-OOH with rich oxygen defects by in situ electro-oxidation reconstitution for a highly efficient oxygen evolution reaction, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2021, 9, 11415-11426.
- 49 Z. Xue, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, W. Geng, B. Jia, J. Tang, S. Bao, H. Wang, Y. Fan, Z. Wei, Z. Zhang, Z. Ke, G. Li and C. Su, Modulating Electronic Structure of Metal-Organic Framework for Efficient Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution, Adv. Energy Mater., 2018, 8, 1801564.
- 50 P. Xiong, X. Ao, J. Chen, J. Li, L. Lv, Z. Li, M. Zondode, X. Xue, Y. Lan and C. Wang, Nickel diselenide nanoflakes give superior urea electrocatalytic conversion, Electrochim. Acta, 2019, 297, 833-841.
- 51 M. Wu, G. Lin and R. Yang, Hydrothermal growth of vertically-aligned ordered mesoporous nickel oxide nanosheets on three-dimensional nickel framework for electrocatalytic oxidation of urea in alkaline medium, J. Power Sources, 2014, 272, 711-718.
- 52 R. Ji, D. Chan, J. Jow and M. Wu, Formation of open-ended nickel hydroxide nanotubes on three-dimensional nickel framework for enhanced urea electrolysis, Electrochem. Commun., 2013, 29, 21-24.
- 53 W. Zhu, Z. Yue, W. Zhang, N. Hu, Z. Luo, M. Ren, Z. Xu, Z. Wei, Y. Suo and J. Wang, Wet-chemistry topotactic synthesis of bimetallic iron-nickel sulfide nanoarrays: an advanced and versatile catalyst for energy efficient overall water and urea electrolysis, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 4346-4353.
- 54 W. Xu, H. Zhang, G. Li and Z. Wu, Nickel-cobalt bimetallic anode catalysts for direct urea fuel cell, Sci. Rep., 2014, 144, 194-199.
- 55 M. Wu, R. Ji and Y. Zheng, Nickel hydroxide electrode with a monolayer of nanocup arrays as an effective electrocatalyst for enhanced electrolysis of urea, Electrochim. Acta, 2014, 144, 194-199.