---
source: Mao 等 - 2024 - Modulating Silver Performance in Electrocatalytic Oxidation of HCHO via SMSI between Ag‐Co3su.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.818s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:20:21.132190Z
---

# **Modulating Silver Performance in Electrocatalytic Oxidation of HCHO via SMSI between Ag-Co3O4 Interfaces**

*Peiyuan Mao, Bingbing Chen,\* Rui Huang, Yang Jing, Long Xiao, Baihao Zhang, and Chuan Shi\**

**The replacement of oxygen evolution reactions with organic molecule oxidation reactions to enable energy-efficient hydrogen production has been a subject of interest. However, further reducing reaction energy consumption and releasing hydrogen from organic molecules continue to pose significant challenges. Herein, a strategy is proposed to produce hydrogen and formic acid from formaldehyde using Ag/Co3O4 interface catalysts at the anode. The key to improving the performance of Ag-based catalysts for formaldehyde oxidation lies in the strong SMSI achieved through the well-designed "spontaneous redox reaction" between Ag and Co3O4 precursors. Nano-sized Ag particles are uniformly dispersed on Co3O4 nanosheets, and electron-deficient Ag<sup>+</sup> are formed by the SMSI between Ag and Co3O4. Ag/Co3O4 demonstrates exceptional formaldehyde oxidation activity at low potentials of 0.32 V versus RHE and 0.65 V versus RHE, achieving current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. The electrolyzer "Ag/Co3O4||20% Pt/C" achieves over 195% hydrogen efficiency and over 98% formic acid selectivity, maintaining stable operation for 60 hours. This work not only presents a novel approach to precisely modulate Ag particle size and interface electronic structure via SMSI, but also provides a promising approach to efficient and energy-saving hydrogen production and the transformation of harmful formaldehyde.**

# **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen, with its zero emissions and high energy density, is widely considered as the most ideal alternative to non-renewable energy sources for the future.[\[1–3\]](#page-8-0) The challenge of producing hydrogen with minimal energy consumption and environmental impact has emerged as a focus of research.[\[4–6\]](#page-8-0) Water electrolysis, an emerging technology, leverages renewable electricity to sustainably produce green hydrogen, offering significant advantages in terms of environmental sustainability, safety, and the potential for equipment miniaturization.[\[7–9\]](#page-8-0) However, the

P. Mao, B. Chen, R. Huang, Y. Jing, L. Xiao, B. Zhang, C. Shi

School of Chemistry State Key Laboratory of Fine Chemicals

Dalian University of Technology Dalian 116024, China

E-mail: [chenbb@dlut.edu.cn;](mailto:chenbb@dlut.edu.cn) [chuanshi@dlut.edu.cn](mailto:chuanshi@dlut.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202405358>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202405358**

practical implementation of water electrolysis is constrained by the sluggish oxygen evolution reaction (OER), necessitating a high input voltage for electrolysis (typically above 1.23 V), which in turn leads to substantial energy consumption (exceeding 4.5–6 kWh).[\[10,11\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, the less economically valuable oxygen from the anode can intermix with the hydrogen produced at the cathode, posing safety risks.[\[12\]](#page-8-0)

A practical and efficient strategy is to replace the OER reaction with organic small molecule oxidation reactions, which are more thermodynamically favorable and have the potential to generate value-added products, thereby increasing economic viability.[\[13–18\]](#page-8-0) Previous studies have demonstrated that suitable organic small molecules, including methanol,[\[14\]](#page-8-0) ethylene glycol,[\[15\]](#page-8-0) and glycerol,[\[16\]](#page-8-0) can effectively replace OER, reducing the initial potential and facilitating hydrogen production from water in a more energy efficient manner.[\[17\]](#page-8-0) However, in most electrocatalytic systems, hydrogen is exclusively produced at the cathode and requires an initial potential *>*1 V.[\[18–21\]](#page-8-0) The challenge lies

in liberating hydrogen from organic small molecules at the anode and further reducing the energy consumption of the reaction.

Formaldehyde is a prevalent harmful pollutant frequently detected in industrial wastewater.[\[22\]](#page-8-0) Typically, it is eliminated using chemical oxidation technique that require significant amounts of oxidants such as H2O2 or employing bioremediation technique with strict and rigorous conditions.[\[23,24\]](#page-8-0) However, formaldehyde, containing 6.66 wt% hydrogen, can be oxidized at very low potentials, facilitating its efficient and convenient degradation via electrocatalytic approaches.[\[25,26\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, replacing the oxygen evolution reaction with the formaldehyde oxidation reaction (FOR), which yields formate and hydrogen, is advantageous for both efficient and energy-saving hydrogen production and the transformation of harmful formaldehyde. This approach also holds significant practical significance for advancing hydrogen production technology through water electrolysis and the industrial treatment of formaldehyde.

The current design of catalyst for electro-oxidation of formaldehyde is on copper- and silver-based catalysts, which can oxidize formaldehyde at low potentials, thereby preventing its

<span id="page-1-0"></span>excessive oxidation.[\[27,28\]](#page-8-0) Copper-based catalysts are preferred over silver-based catalysts due to their superior formaldehyde oxidation activity and cost-effectiveness.[\[29,30\]](#page-8-0) Wang et al. developed a dual-electrode hydrogen production system for aldehyde oxidation with a Cu2O/Cu foam as the anode, which requires one-fourteenth of the power input of conventional water electrolyzers.[\[31\]](#page-8-0) Zou et al. reported the electro-oxidation of formaldehyde on partially reduced CuxO@CF, achieving a high current density of 165 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.35 V versus RHE, and investigated the synergistic effect of Cu<sup>0</sup> and Cu<sup>+</sup>. [\[32\]](#page-8-0) However, the low oxidation potential of the Cu catalyst itself, at only 0.521 V versus RHE,[\[33\]](#page-8-0) restricts the voltage range for electro-oxidation of formaldehyde. Additionally, the deactivation of copper-based catalysts during long-term testing further impedes practical application. While Ag catalysts, boasting a higher oxidation potential of 0.799 V versus RHE,[\[34\]](#page-8-0) potentially expands the voltage range for formaldehyde oxidation. Additionally, superior conductivity and corrosion resistance of Ag catalysts provide a significant advantage in terms of stability.[\[35,36\]](#page-8-0) Lu et al. designed and synthesized a series of pure silver catalysts with varying structural characteristics and demonstrated that these catalysts exhibited distinct sensitivities to their structural properties.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) Li et al. controlled the shape of AuNR@Ag-Au core-shell nanostructures and proposed a mechanism for the oxidation of formaldehyde to formic acid and water.[\[38\]](#page-8-0) Currently, research on silverbased catalysts for electro-oxidation of formaldehyde is relatively limited, with a primary focus on the manipulation of Ag morphology.[\[39,40\]](#page-8-0) To improve the intrinsic activity of Ag catalysts and minimize the use and cost of silver-based catalysts, it is essential to design interface catalysts with modulated electronic and geometric Ag structure for formaldehyde oxidation activity. Traditional methods for preparing silver-based catalysts frequently involve high-temperature reduction and the use of strong reducing agents (e.g., NaBH4), resulting in uneven dispersion and uncontrolled sizing of Ag particles, which restricts catalytic efficiency.[\[41–43\]](#page-8-0)

Herein, we develop a spontaneous redox reaction between ZIF-67 precursor and AgNO3 to create a supported Ag/Co3O4 catalyst with a strong metal support interaction and rich active interface. Controlled-size Ag particles are uniformly dispersed on Co3O4 nanosheets by precisely controlling the reaction temperature. Through strong metal support interaction (SMSI) effect, abundant Ag<sup>+</sup> active sites are formed at the interface of Ag and Co3O4 enhancing the formaldehyde oxidation capacity. Combined with the strong adsorption capability of the carrier for formaldehyde, Ag/Co3O4 catalyst displayed excellent formaldehyde oxidation activity under low potential conditions, efficiently converting formaldehyde into hydrogen and formic acid. DFT calculations combined with in-situ IR reveal that the enhanced performance of Ag/Co3O4 is attributed to its increased formaldehyde conversion and lowered the energy barrier of C-H bond cleavage of H2C(OH)O\*, facilitated by interfaces with abundant Ag<sup>+</sup> active sites. This work not only demonstrates a novel approach to precisely modulate the size of Ag particles and regulate the electronic structure of interfaces via SMSI, but also provides a new route to efficient and energysaving hydrogen production and the transformation of harmful formaldehyde.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Characterization of the Catalysts**

The Ag/Co3O4-R electrocatalyst was prepared by spontaneous redox reaction of precursors at a specified temperature to avoid high-temperature reduction Equation (1). The synthesis scheme of the is illustrated in **Figure 1**a. Initially, ZIF-67 with a rhombic dodecahedral structure was synthesized by the conventional coprecipitation method (Figure S1, Supporting Information).[\[17,40\]](#page-8-0) Subsequently, ZIF-67 and AgNO3 were dissolved in a mixed solution of water and ethanol, which underwent a spontaneous redox reaction at 40 °C. The Ag/Co3O4 precipitate was then collected until the solution turned black without further calcination. The Ag content of Ag/Co3O4-R is about 34% by ICP-AES analysis.

$$2Ag^{+} + 3C_{0}^{0} + 4H_{2}O \longrightarrow 2Ag + Co_{3}O_{4} + 6N NH + 2H^{+}$$
 (1)

The morphology and microstructure of Ag/Co3O4-R are characterized using scanning microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). As depicted in Figure 1b–e, the rhombic structure of ZIF-67 is gradually disrupted upon exposure to the mixed H2O and ethanol solution, releasing Co2<sup>+</sup> that are subsequently oxidized by Ag<sup>+</sup> to form Co3O4. The SEM images in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) provide in detailed formation process of Ag/Co3O4-R nanosheets at varying reflux times. In contrast, the pure ethanol solution hindered the hydrolysis of ZIF-67, impeding reaction from progressing. Thereby, the optimized ratio of water to ethanol is approximately 1:8, which affects the final product via the hydrolysis rate.[\[41\]](#page-8-0) Finally, the asprepared Ag/Co3O4-R exhibits a typical nanosheet structure with uniformly dispersed Ag nanoparticles adhering to the surface (Figure 1d, inset). Besides solvent, the reflux temperature exerts great effects on the prepared catalysts. The size of the Ag nanoparticles gradually increased from ≈5 to ≈23 nm with the rise in reflux temperature from 40 °C to 100 °C, as supported by the TEM statistics of Ag particles in Figure S3 (Supporting Information). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of Ag/Co3O4-R at various reaction temperatures further confirmed that the enhancement characteristic peaks of Ag (111). The growth of Ag nanoparticles is quantitatively calculated by the Scherrer formula, consistent with the TEM results, as depicted in Figure S4 and Table S1 (Supporting Information). The formation of Ag/Co3O4-R is completed in 10 hours at a reflux temperature of 40 °C, while at 100 °C, the process is completed in just 8 minutes. In addition, the precise synthesis of Ag/Co3O4-R is influenced by the amounts of reactants used, which are shown in detail in Figure S5 (Supporting Information). Therefore, optimized reaction temperature, suitable duration, and precise feeding amount improve the dispersion of the Ag particles on Co3O4 nanosheets, boosting atomic efficiency and facilitating the formation of Ag/Co3O4 interfaces. For the optimized Ag/Co3O4 sample with reflux temperature of 40 °C, the Ag nanoparticles on Co3O4 nanosheets with an average particle size of approximately 5.2 nm is verified by TEM analysis in Figure 1e, coupled with detailed elemental mapping

**Figure 1.** a) Scheme diagram for the synthesis of Ag/Co3O4-R by a reflux procedure. b) SEM image of the ZIF-67. c) SEM image of reaction intermediate. d) SEM images of Ag/Co3O4-R, inset: SEM image of Ag nanoparticles on the surface of Co3O4 nanosheets. e) HAADF-STEM image of Ag/Co3O4-R, inset: the size distribution of Ag nanoparticles. f–i) The corresponding EDS element mapping of Ag/Co3O4-R: Co (pink), O (blue), Ag (yellow), and overlay. j,k) HRTEM images of Ag/Co3O4-R.

studies (Figure [1f–i\)](#page-1-0). As shown in Figure [1j,k,](#page-1-0) the distinct lattice fringes of 0.23 and 0.24 nm correspond to the (111) crystal plane of Ag and the (311) crystal plane of Co3O4, respectively.

For comparison, reference samples were prepared using coprecipitation (Ag/Co3O4-C) and incipient impregnation (Ag/Co3O4-I) methods, as shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information). These samples underwent calcination at 450 °C in air for 4 h at a heating rate of 5 °C min<sup>−</sup>1. The silver content in Ag/Co3O4-C and Ag/Co3O4-I is 34% and 32% respectively. As indicated in XRD patterns (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0), the characteristic diffraction peak of Ag in Ag/Co3O4-C and Ag/Co3O4-I is sharper and more intense compared to Ag/Co3O4-R, and the Ag particle size in Ag/Co3O4-C and Ag/Co3O4-I is about 11.8 and 46.9 nm, respectively, as calculated by the Scherrer formula. The specific surface area analysis indicates that the Ag/Co3O4-R possesses the largest surface area, approximately 80 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1, which is notably higher than that of Ag/Co3O4-C (25 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1), Ag/Co3O4-I (8 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1), and the Co3O4 (6 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1), as shown in Figure [2b](#page-3-0) and Table S2 (Supporting Information). The increased surface area can be attributed to the unique preparation for Ag/Co3O4-R, potentially leading to improved Ag dispersion.

The electronic states evolution of Ag, Co, and O in Ag/Co3O4- R, Ag/Co3O4-C, and Ag/Co3O4-I are investigated through X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), employing Co3O4 and commercial Ag film as reference. In Figure [2c,](#page-3-0) the Ag 3d spectra shows distinct symmetric double peaks at around 374.0 and 368.0 eV of Ag/Co3O4-C, Ag/Co3O4-I and Ag, corresponding to Ag 3d3/2 and Ag 3d5/2. [\[30,42\]](#page-8-0) However, double peaks of Ag/Co3O4- R exhibit a 0.3 eV shift toward 374.3 and 368.3 eV. This phenomenon attributed to the SMSI that facilitates the electron transfer from Ag to the carrier material, further producing Ag<sup>+</sup> in electron deficient state. Conversely, the XPS peaks of Ag in Ag/Co3O4-C and Ag/Co3O4-I remain constant due to the absence

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns of Ag/Co3O4-R, Ag/Co3O4-C, and Ag/Co3O4-I. b) N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms of Co3O4 and various Ag/Co3O4 catalysts. c–e) High-resolution XPS spectra of Ag 3d, Co 2p, and O 1s for Ag/Co3O4-R, Ag/Co3O4-C, Ag/Co3O4-I, Ag and Co3O4. f) Projected density of states of Ag and Ag/Co3O4, inset shows charge density differences of Ag/Co3O4, the yellow regions refer to the charge accumulation.

of heterogeneous interfaces formation, influenced by the synthesis method. As shown in Figure 2d, the Co 2p peaks locked at 778.8 and 793.8 eV are assigned to Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2, respectively, accompanied by satellite peaks flanking the main peaks.[\[15,44\]](#page-8-0) As to the distribution of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup> , the ratio of Co2<sup>+</sup>/(Co2<sup>+</sup> + Co3<sup>+</sup>) in Ag/Co3O4-R is about 76%, significantly higher than that in Ag/Co3O4-C (52%), Ag/Co3O4-I (50%) and Co3O4 (54%). And O 1s spectra (Figure 2e) show two peaks located around 530.1 and 531.4 eV, corresponding to surface-O (O1) and metal-O (O2), respectively.[\[45,46\]](#page-9-0) It is noteworthy that the noncalcined Ag/Co3O4-R exhibits a significantly surface-O content of 50% (O1/O1+O2), compared to that of Ag/Co3O4-C (35%), Ag/Co3O4-I (32%), and Co3O4 (30%). The detailed valence state distribution is presented in Table S3 (Supporting Information). This result indicates the presence of charge transfer from Ag to Co3O4 support, causing an elevation in Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> content and surface oxygen, which potentially enhances the adsorption of formaldehyde intermediates. Figure 2f reveals that the projected density of states (PDOS) of Ag/Co3O4 is shifted by 0.21 eV towards more positive energy compared to the PDOS of Ag, indicating a decrease in the total electron count on Ag. The charge density distribution (Figure 2f, inset) further confirms the migration of electrons from Ag towards the interface, which is consistent with the XPS analysis.

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Performances**

The electrochemical measurements for formaldehyde oxidation are carried out in a standard H-type cell with a typical three-electrode system, separated by an anion exchange membrane (AEM). **Figure [3](#page-4-0)**a presents chronoamperometric curve of Ag/Co3O4-R in 1 m KOH solution following sequential addition of 0.5 m methanol, 0.5 m potassium formate, and 0.5 m formaldehyde. Obviously, the current density of Ag/Co3O4-R observed a negligible increase in mixed KOH solution containing methanol or potassium formate at 0.6 V versus RHE. In contrast, the current density increased rapidly to 70 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> after addition of the formaldehyde, indicating that Ag/Co3O4-R exhibits significant selectivity towards formaldehyde oxidation. Figure S7 (Supporting Information) shows the effect of HCHO concentration on the reaction activity. As the HCHO concentration increases from 0.0 to 0.5 m, the current density in the LSV curve increases progressively, accompanied by a slight shift of the oxidation peak towards higher potentials.[\[47\]](#page-9-0) As the potential rises, the oxidation of silver and the competition with the OER become dominant, resulting in a decrease in the peak current for formaldehyde oxidation.[\[27,30\]](#page-8-0) The current density remains unchanged with further increases in formaldehyde concentration, as the adsorption capacity of Ag/Co3O4-R is saturated. As shown in Figure [3b](#page-4-0) and Figure S8 (Supporting Information), with the reaction temperature increasing from 40 °C to 100 °C, the formaldehyde oxidation capacity of Ag/Co3O4-R decreases, and the potential rises from 0.32 V versus RHE to 0.42 V versus RHE at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, concurrent with an increase in Ag particle size from ≈5 to ≈23 nm. This relationship between the reaction temperature, activity, and the size of Ag particles reveals that the sensitive of formaldehyde oxidation capability to the structure of Ag/Co3O4-R.

The FOR performance of Ag/Co3O4-R along with Ag/Co3O4- C, Ag/Co3O4-I, Ag film, and Co3O4 is shown in Figure [3c](#page-4-0) and Figure S9 (Supporting Information). Ag/Co3O4-R shows the highest activity in FOR with a potential of 0.32 V versus RHE

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Chronoamperometric curve collected at a half cell potential of 0.6 V versus RHE with the continuous addition of 0.5 m CH3OH, 0.5 m HCOOH, and 0.5 m HCHO into 1.0 m KOH. b) Reaction temperature in relation to activity and Ag particle size. c) LSV curves of Ag/Co3O4-R, Ag/Co3O4- C, Ag/Co3O4-I, Ag and Co3O4 for electro-oxidation of formaldehyde in 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m HCHO and OER in 1.0 m KOH. d) Normalized current density by silver loading at 0.8 V versus RHE. e) The concentration of HCHO changes caused by Ag/Co3O4-R, Ag/Co3O4-C, Ag/Co3O4-I, Ag and Co3O4. f) Chronoamperometric curve collected at 0.7/0.5 V versus RHE with the periodic refreshing electrolyte. g) LSV curves of the Ag/Co3O4-R||20% Pt/C in 1.0 m KOH with/without 0.5 m HCHO. h) Hydrogen production at different voltages. i) Faradaic efficiencies of hydrogen and formate for 15 min at the voltage of 0.6 V in an electrolytic cell system.

corresponding to 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, outperforming Ag/Co3O4-C (0.41 V versus RHE), Ag/Co3O4-I (0.43 V versus RHE) and Ag film (0.40 V versus RHE). Similarly, at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, Ag/Co3O4-R exhibits a lower potential (0.65 V versus RHE) than Ag/Co3O4-C (0.69 V versus RHE), Ag/Co3O4-I (0.84 V versus RHE), and Ag film (0.98 V versus RHE), which further illustrates the superior performance. However, Co3O4 exhibits minimal activity in FOR at low potential. This indicates that Ag is the primary active site of Ag/Co3O4-R, while the Co3O4 nanosheets serve as an excellent carrier.

We further compare the intrinsic activities of Ag/Co3O4-R, Ag/Co3O4-C, and Ag/Co3O4-I in Figure 3d. When normalizing the activities based on silver loading, Ag/Co3O4-R demonstrated a mass activity of 436.8 A g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 0.8 V versus RHE, which is higher than that of Ag/Co3O4-C (266.0 A g<sup>−</sup>1) and Ag/Co3O4-I (211.3 A g<sup>−</sup>1). Additionally, the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) is assessed via double-layer capacitance (*Cdl*), as shown in Figure S10 (Supporting Information). By normalizing the current density to ECSA, Ag/Co3O4-R exhibited similarly optimal activity, outperforming Ag/Co3O4-C and Ag/Co3O4-I as illustrated in Figure S11 (Supporting Information). These results indicate that the active sites exposed by Ag/Co3O4-R are more abundant and facilitate a more effective utilization of silver atoms, which further promotes the formation of additional Ag<sup>+</sup> to accelerate the oxidation of formaldehyde through the SMSI effect.[\[46,48\]](#page-9-0)

Subsequently, formaldehyde consumption experiment is conducted at 0.6 V versus RHE to evaluate the oxidation rates for Ag/Co3O4-R, Ag/Co3O4-C, Ag/Co3O4-I, Ag and Co3O4. As shown in Figure 3e, the average oxidation rate of Ag/Co3O4-R within one hour is 1.67 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> mmol min<sup>−</sup>1, significantly higher than Ag/Co3O4-C (9.6 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>4</sup> mmol min<sup>−</sup>1), Ag/Co3O4-I (6.3 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>4</sup> mmol min<sup>−</sup>1), Ag (1.33 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> mmol min<sup>−</sup>1), and

Co3O4 (no oxidation capability). This result further suggests the Ag/Co3O4-R exhibits an amazing oxidative capacity for formaldehyde.

The stability of Ag/Co3O4-R is assessed using both chronopotentiometry and multiple LSV techniques. As shown in Figure [3f,](#page-4-0) the current density decreases more rapidly at 0.7 V compared to 0.5 V, attributed to the rapid consumption of formaldehyde at high potential. After refreshing the electrolyte, the current density recovered quickly, and eight consecutive recoverable tests demonstrate the stability of the Ag/Co3O4-R. When the potential exceeded 1.0 V, the oxidation of Ag dominated, resulting in a significant and irreversible decrease in stability, as shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). Concurrently, the Ag content in Ag/Co3O4-R decreased from 34% to 12% after 1 h of reaction. Additionally, the chronopotentiometry curve in Figure S13 (Supporting Information) approximates a straight line at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The multiple LSV curves exhibited a gradual decrease activity of Ag/Co3O4-R in formaldehyde oxidation with increasing scans, attributed to the reduction in formaldehyde concentration. Following electrolyte replacement, the activity of Ag/Co3O4-R is largely restored, although a 2.7% loss persisted in Figure S14 (Supporting Information). Post-reaction SEM and XRD analyses show that the composition and lamellar structure of Ag/Co3O4- R remained unchanged in Figure S15 (Supporting Information). Overall, Ag/Co3O4-R shows excellent structural and mechanical stability during prolonged formaldehyde oxidation reactions. The electrooxidation performance of Ag/Co3O4-R catalyst is also compared with that of recently reported copper- and silver-based selfsupported catalysts in Table S4 (Supporting Information), highlighting the superiority of our work in terms of voltage window range and stability.

Given the excellent performance of Ag/Co3O4-R in half-cell for formaldehyde oxidation as mentioned above, a coupled novel electrolyzer is designed by combining FOR and HER with Ag/Co3O4-R and commercial Pt/C as the anode and cathode electrocatalysts respectively. As shown in Figure [3g,](#page-4-0) the LSV curve of the novel electrolyzer shows a significant decrease in voltage input, requiring only 0.4 and 1.0 V to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. However, conventional electrolyzer for water splitting (OER/HER) require a voltage input exceeding 1.8 V to achieve 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, leading to inefficient energy consumption. In terms of energy efficiency in green hydrogen production, a novel FOR/HER electrolyzer with dual-electrode hydrogen production capability has an energy consumption of only 1.22 kWh per cubic meter of hydrogen produced, significantly lower than the FOR/OER electrolyze (4.67 kWh), detailed calculations in supporting information. Meanwhile, Figure S16 (Supporting Information) shows that the identical chronopotentiometry curves remain consistent over 60 hours at 0.4 V, which demonstrates the excellent stability of the electrolyzer.

## **2.3. Products Analysis**

Gas chromatography is employed to quantify the gaseous products on both sides of electrolyzer. And the standard curve for quantifying hydrogen is depicted in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), employing Ar as the carrier. As shown in Figure [3h,](#page-4-0) hydrogen is not detected at the anode of the electrolyzer without an applied voltage, suggesting that Ag/Co3O4-R is unable to thermostatically drive electrocatalytic oxidation of HCHO. With the voltage rising from 0.3 to 1.1 V, the hydrogen generation rate gradually increased at the anode, leading to a progressive reduction in the time required to produce 0.1 mmol hydrogen. The faradaic efficiency of H2 in the anode reaction chamber, calculated from the theoretical amount of H2 produced based on charge measurements, is over 95%, as shown in Figure S18 (Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the amount of H2 produced at the 20% Pt/C electrode is very close to theoretical amount of hydrogen, as shown in Figure S19 (Supporting Information). Consequently, the total cumulative H2 production in the whole electrolyzer with Ag/Co3O4-R and 20% Pt/C serving as the anode and cathode electrocatalysts respectively, exceeds 195%, as shown in Figure [3i.](#page-4-0)

The nuclear magnetic resonance hydrogen spectra (1H-NMR) are utilized to analyze the liquid-phase products from the anode, with DMSO serving as the internal standard.[\[48\]](#page-9-0) The standard curves for different concentrations of potassium formate have been presented in Figure S20 (Supporting Information). In particular, the impact of the Cannizzaro reaction (2HCHO + OH<sup>−</sup> → HCOO<sup>−</sup> + CH3OH) on the analysis of the liquid phase products cannot be underestimated.[\[25,32,35\]](#page-8-0) The conversion rate of HCHO in 1 m KOH at different time intervals is analyses thermodynamically. Figure S21 (Supporting Information) shows that the conversion of formaldehyde is about 3.2% within 1 hour, increasing to 17.1% within 12 hour. The influence of the Cannizzaro reaction on the analysis of liquid-phase products necessitates the exclusion of its impact when evaluating FEHCOO- based on the standard curve. The 1H-NMR spectrum in Figure S22 (Supporting Information) demonstrates that formic acid is the only liquidphase product, with no other liquid-phase products observed. As depicted in Figure [3i,](#page-4-0) almost all of formate originates exclusively from formaldehyde oxidation, exhibiting a faradaic efficiency approaching 98%.

Additionally, in half-cell tests for formaldehyde oxidation, the Faraday efficiencies for hydrogen and formate are 95% and 98%, respectively, as depicted in Figure S23 (Supporting Information). In brief, the novel Ag/Co3O4-R interface catalyst efficiently electro-oxidizes formaldehyde into hydrogen storage molecules, unlocking the high potential of formaldehyde, along with the harmless disposal of formaldehyde and energy-efficient continuous hydrogen production.

#### **2.4. Mechanistic Analysis**

To comprehensively understand the electrocatalytic oxidation process of formaldehyde, in situ attenuated total reflection surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR-SEIRAS) was employed to monitor the reaction intermediates. Herein, the generation or increase of intermediates corresponded to positive peaks, while the opposite resulted in negative peaks. Upon increasing the potential, the intensity of the broad band at 1650 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> attributed to the adsorbed C-O stretching vibration of H2C(OH)O<sup>−</sup> increased significantly.[\[30\]](#page-8-0) This indicated a strong adsorption of H2C(OH)O<sup>−</sup> on the surface of Co3O4 (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0). For the Ag sample, the positive peak at 1650 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> associated to H2C(OH)O<sup>−</sup> became negative as the

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a–c) In situ ATR-SEIRAS of  $Co_3O_4$ , Ag and  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -R in 0.1 M KOH with 0.5 M HCHO at different potentials. d) OCP measurements of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ ,  $Co_3O_4$ , and Ag. e) Binding energy of the  $H_2C(OH)O^-$  intermediate with model surfaces of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ ,  $Co_3O_4$ , and Ag. f) The Gibbs energy of reaction coordinate with model surfaces of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ ,  $Co_3O_4$ , and Ag.

potential increased, suggesting a high conversion rate of  $H_2C(OH)O^-$  on the Ag surface, as shown in Figure 4b. Notably, the bands at  $1580 \text{ cm}^{-1}$ ,  $1440 \text{ cm}^{-1}$ ,  $1387 \text{ cm}^{-1}$  and  $1344 \text{ cm}^{-1}$  assigned to  $v_{as}$  (\*OCHO), v (C-O) of HCOO<sup>-</sup> and v (\*OCHO) appeared more prominently with the potential increased, demonstrated that the presence of Ag could partially oxidize formaldehyde to formate.[27,30] In the case of Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R sample, characteristic bands derived from co-adsorbed H2C(OH)O- and formate species were detected at 1650, 1580, 1440, 1387, and 1344 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which implied that H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O<sup>-</sup> could be adsorbed on the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> surface, while the presence of Ag particles could accelerate its oxidation into formate species (Figure 4c). This result further confirmed the vital role of SMSI in Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R interfaces in the formaldehyde electrooxidation performance. And the spectrum of Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-C and Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-I closely resemble that of Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R as depicted in Figure S24 (Supporting Informa-

To investigate the adsorption capacity of the intermediates on  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -R,  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -C,  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -I, Ag and  $Co_3O_4$ , the open circuit potential (OCP) is measured, which reflects the change in the species of the Helmholtz layer and the behavior of the electric double layer. [49] As shown in Figure 4d, the OCP of these samples decreases rapidly, indicating a modification in the Helmholtz layer and the rapid adsorption of the intermediates. The OCP of  $Co_3O_4$  decreased by 763 mV after the addition of formaldehyde, which is higher than Ag (583 mV), implying that  $Co_3O_4$  has a stronger adsorption capacity than Ag. Moreover,  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -R experiences a reduction of 741 mV following the introduc-

tion of HCHO, indicating a more robust adsorption capability than that of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -C (669 mV) and  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -I (664 mV) in Figure S25 (Supporting Information). This enhanced adsorption is attributed to the larger surface area of the  $Co_3O_4$  nanosheets carrier.

To clarify the improved performance of Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R compared to metallic Ag and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> in FOR to yield formate and H<sub>2</sub>, density functional theory (DFT) is further carried out to investigate the electronic properties of three catalysts and the conditions of critical steps in the electrocatalytic oxidation of HCHO process. Three catalyst models are constructed based on the preliminary characterization results, including Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (311) for representing Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets, Ag (111) for representing Ag nanoparticles, and Ag (111)/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (311) for representing Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Under thermal conditions, HCHO undergoes spontaneous hydration and deprotonation in the alkaline solution to produce the H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O<sup>-</sup>. Figure 4e compares the relative adsorption energies and optimal structures of H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O<sup>-</sup> on surfaces of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (311), Ag (111), and Ag (111)/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (311). The binding energy of the  $H_2C(OH)O^-$  is -2.89 eV on the surface of  $Co_3O_4$ , much higher than that of Ag (-2.04 eV) and Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (-2.41 eV). This indicates a higher preference for H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O<sup>-</sup> intermediates to adsorb on the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> surface, thus providing further validation of the ATR-SEIRAS and OCP results.

In addition, the thermodynamic mechanism of electrocatalytic oxidation of HCHO is further investigated to further explain the effect on performance of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ . The Gibbs free energy difference ( $\Delta G$ ) and optimized models for each elementary step

\_small

16138289, 2024. 48, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1202405388 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

are illustrated in Figure 4f and Figures \$26-\$30 (Supporting Information). It is widely recognized that H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O\* undergoes dehydrogenation via C-H cleavage, resulting in the formation of HCOOH\* and H\*  $(H_2C(OH)O* \rightarrow HCOOH* + H*)$  during the electrocatalytic oxidation of HCHO. Moreover, the dehydrogenation of H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O\* serves as the rate-determining step for Ag, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> throughout the reaction. The results indicate that Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> exhibits a lower free energy difference of 1.01 eV in this step, in contrast to Ag (1.14 eV) and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (1.35 eV), indicating that the C-H bond breaking of H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O\* is facilitated on Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. In the next steps, the desorption of HCOOH\* to HCOOH and followed hydrogen formation is readily achieved on Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Ag. However, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> must overcome a significant energy barrier (0.33 eV) for the desorption of HCOOH\*, which hinders subsequent reactions. Consequently, the enhanced performance of Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is attributed to its increased formaldehyde conversion and decreased free energy difference, facilitated by the abundant  $Ag^{\delta+}$  active sites.

#### 3. Conclusion

This study proposes a strategy to produce hydrogen and formic acid from formaldehyde at the anode using Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R interface catalysts. Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R achieve strong SMSI through a carefully designed "spontaneous redox reaction" between their precursors. Nano-sized Ag particles are uniformly dispersed on Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets, and electron-deficient  $Ag^{\delta+}$  are formed by the SMSI between Ag and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> accelerating the conversion of formaldehyde. Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-R exhibit outstanding formaldehyde oxidation activity at low potential of 0.32 V versus RHE and 0.65 V versus RHE to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The electrolyzer with Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> as the anode and Pt/C as the cathode achieves over 195% hydrogen efficiency and over 98% formic acid selectivity, maintaining stable operation for 60 hours. DFT calculations combined with in-situ IR reveal that the enhanced performance of Ag/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is attributed to its increased formaldehyde conversion and lowered the energy barrier of C-H bond cleavage of H<sub>2</sub>C(OH)O\*, facilitated by heterointerfaces with abundant  $Ag^{\delta+}$  active sites. This work not only demonstrates a novel approach to precisely modulate the size of Ag particles and regulate the electronic structure of interfaces via SMSI, but also provides a new route to efficient and energy-saving hydrogen production and the transformation of harmful formaldehyde.

### 4. Experimental Section

Catalyst Preparation: Synthesis of  $Co_3O_4$ : ZIF-67 was synthesized with slight modification reported in the previous literature. [17,40] Briefly, 2-methyl-imidazole (4.0 g) was dissolved in methanol (200 mL) with stirring until the solution was clarified.  $Co(NO_3)_2$ ·6H $_2O$  (4.0 g) was dissolved in methanol (200 mL) with stirring until the solution changed to clear pale pink. Subsequently, the two solutions were rapidly mixed and allowed to stand for 12 hours at room temperature, then the ZIF-67 was obtained by centrifuging the precipitate several times with methanol. Finally, the collected ZIF-67 was annealed in Ar at 450 °C for 4 hours to obtain  $Co_3O_4$ .

Synthesis of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -R:  $Ag/Co_3O_4$  was prepared via a spontaneous redox reaction ( $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -R). Typically, ZIF-67 (0.4 g) was dispersed in a flask containing 60 mL of ethanol under ultrasonic conditions, and then the flask was transferred to an oil bath and kept at different temperatures

(30 °C to 100 °C). Then, 10 mL of AgNO $_3$  solution was added to the above flask. When the color of the solution turned into completely black, the powder was collected by centrifugation, washed with ethanol, and dried overnight under vacuum.

Synthesis of Ag/Co $_3O_4$ -C: Ag/Co $_3O_4$ -C was synthesized by a conventional co-precipitation method. Typically, 50 mL of an aqueous solution containing Na $_2$ CO $_3$  was added dropwise into a solution containing Co(NO $_3$ ) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O (4.0 g) and AgNO $_3$  under stirring. The resulting mixture was then centrifuged and washed with distilled water, dried under vacuum, and finally calcined at 450 °C in air to obtain Ag/Co $_3$ O $_4$ -C.

Synthesis of  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -I:  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -I was prepared through an impregnation method. In a typical synthesis, the  $Co_3O_4$  (0.2 g) support was impregnated with an aqueous solution of  $AgNO_3$  and left in the dark at room temperature until the solution fully evaporated. Subsequently, the resulting sample was dried in a vacuum drying chamber at 120 °C for 2 hours and calcined in a muffle furnace at 450 °C to obtain  $Ag/Co_3O_4$ -I.

*Characterizations*: *XRD*: X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded on D8 Advance (Bruker, Germany) with Cu K $\alpha$  radiation source operating at 2.2 KW. Step scans were performed over the  $2\theta$  in the range from 10 to 80° with a scanning rate of 5° min  $^{-1}$ .

<code>HRTEM</code>. High resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and EDX- mapping were measured on a JEM-F200 working at 200 kV. Prior to measurements, the catalyst was dispersed in absolute ethanol and then dropped onto a copper grid.

SEM: Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were obtained using a JSM-7900F (JEOL Japan) operated at 10 kV.

XPS: X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were acquired on an ESCALAB250Xi (Thermo Fisher Scientific, America) to investigate the elemental composition. 284.6 eV was used as the binding energy standard for C 1s to adjust surface charge migration.

*ICP-AES*: Inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) was performed on AVIO 500 (Perkin Elmer, America). Prior to the measurements, the catalyst was thoroughly dissolved in a strong acid solution.

*BET*: Nitrogen adsorption-desorption curves were measured on ASAP 2460 analyzer (Micromeritics, America). The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method was applied to calculate the total surface area.

In Situ ATR-SEIRAS: In situ ATR-SEIRAS spectra were recorded on FTIR spectrometer equipped with an MCT detector (Bruker, Germany).

Electrochemical Measurements: All electrochemical tests were performed in the electrochemical workstation (IVIUM) in 1.0 м КОН reaction medium with or without commercial formaldehyde (37 wt.%). In the three-electrode configuration, carbon paper covered with catalysts was utilized as the working electrode, while a carbon rod and a Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) electrode were used as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. In the two-electrode configuration, catalysts-coated carbon paper was used directly as the working electrode with counter electrode (carbon paper covered with 20% Pt/C). Four milligram of catalyst was dispersed in a solution of 680 μL deionized water, 300 μL ethanol, and 20 μL water to form a homogeneous suspension under sonication for the preparation of the corresponding electrode. All measured potentials are converted to values relative to RHE according to the Nernst equation:  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm Hg/HgO}$ + 0.924 V. The catalyst loading on the carbon paper is 1 mg cm $^{-2}$ . Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were obtained with a potential range of 0–1 V versus RHE (1 to 2 V versus RHE in the two-electrode configuration) at a scan rate of 5  $\rm \dot{m}V~s^{-1}.$  The long-term stability test was performed in a flow cell with an updated fresh electrolyte (1.0 м КОН and 0.5 м НСНО). A non-Faraday voltage window (0.04–0.12 V versus RHE) was selected and CV cycling was performed with sweep rates of (50, 75, 100, 150, 200 mV s<sup>-1</sup>). Subsequently, Data points were then taken at 0.08 V versus RHE potential, and a linear function graph was plotted with sweep rate as the x-axis and current density as the y-axis to determine the slope of the function, which also referred to as double layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ).

*Product Analysis*: The production of  $H_2$  in the anode and cathode chambers was analyzed using gas chromatography (GC) with a Molecular Sieve 13 packed column and a thermal conductivity detector. The oven temperature of GC was maintained at 80 °C, and Ar was used as the carrier gas.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 48, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405358 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

The identification and quantification of liquid phase products from the anode chamber were carried out using 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis on a Bruker Avance instrument (400 MHz). Calibration curves were constructed with dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) as an internal standard (30 mg DMSO in 25 mL deionized water) and various potassium formate (HCOOK) solutions at different concentrations. Electrolyte samples were prepared by combining 300 μL of electrolyte solution with 100 μL of 0.5 m H2SO4, followed by the addition of 50 μL of deuterated water and 50 μL of DMSO solution.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Key R & D Program of China (No. 2021YFA1501102 and 2023YFA1506602), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 21932002, 22276023), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (DUT22LAB602), and Liaoning Binhai Laboratory Project (LBLF-202306). Furthermore, the authors would like to thank the assistance of DUT Instrumental Analysis Center.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

Ag/Co3O4 interfaces, bipolar hydrogen generation, electrocatalytic oxidation of HCHO, SMSI

> Received: June 29, 2024 Revised: August 16, 2024 Published online: September 18, 2024

- [1] M. F. Lagadec, A. Grimaud, *Nat. Mater.* **2020**, *19*, 1140.
- [2] S. Chen, C. Pei, J. Gong, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 3473.
- [3] P. Liu, X. Zhang, J. Fei, Y. Shi, J. Zhu, D. Zhang, L. Zhao, L. Wang, J. Lai, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2310591.
- [4] G. Han, G. Li, Y. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 224.
- [5] J. T. Ren, L. Chen, H. Y. Wang, W. W. Tian, Z. Y. Yuan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 49.
- [6] L. Guo, J. Chi, T. Cui, J. Zhu, Y. Xia, H. Guo, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2400975.
- [7] W. Tong, M. Forster, F. Dionigi, S. Dresp, R. Sadeghi Erami, P. Strasser, A. J. Cowan, P. Farràs, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 367.
- [8] Y. Sun, Z. Xue, Q. Liu, Y. Jia, Y. Li, K. Liu, Y. Lin, M. Liu, G. Li, C. Y. Su, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1369.
- [9] S. Hsu, J. Miao, L. Zhang, J. Gao, H. Wang, H. Tao, S. Hung, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1707261.
- [10] J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196.

- [11] L. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2109321.
- [12] R. J. Ouimet, J. R. Glenn, D. De Porcellinis, A. R. Motz, M. Carmo, K. E. Ayers, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 6159.
- [13] W. J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X. Q. Pan, H. C. Li, X. Hu, Z. Y. Fan, W. K. Wang, G. H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, H. Q. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 265.
- [14] Y. Qi, Y. Zhang, L. Yang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhu, H. Jiang, C. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4602.
- [15] R. Xia, R. Wang, B. Hasa, A. Lee, Y. Liu, X. Ma, F. Jiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 4570.
- [16] R. Y. Fan, X. J. Zhai, W. Z. Qiao, Y. S. Zhang, N. Yu, N. Xu, Q. X. Lv, Y. M. Chai, B. Dong, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 190.
- [17] Z. Li, S. Ning, J. Xu, J. Zhu, Z. Yuan, Y. Wu, J. Chen, F. Xie, Y. Jin, N. Wang, H. Meng, S. Sun, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 5300.
- [18] Y. Li, X. Wei, S. Han, L. Chen, J. Shi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21464.
- [19] X. Du, T. Wei, M. Tan, H. Kobayashi, Z. Peng, H. Zhu, Z. Jin, J. Song, W. Liu, R. Li, *ACS Sustain Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 7108.
- [20] Z. Chen, N. Han, W. Wei, D. Chu, B. Ni, *EcoEnergy* **2024**, *2*,114.
- [21] S. Yuan, T. Li, J. Cui, J. Sun, Y. Gong, A. Braun, H. Liu, J. Wang, *EcoEnergy* **2024**, *2*, 322.
- [22] Z. Zhou, L. Zeng, G. Xiong, L. Yang, H. Yuan, J. Yu, S. Xu, D. Wang, X. Zhang, H. Liu, W. Zhou, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *426*, 129214.
- [23] C. Jarusutthirak, K. Sangsawang, S. Mattaraj, R. Jiraratananon, *J. Environ. Eng.* **2012**, *138*, 265.
- [24] G. Moussavi, A. Bagheri, A. Khavanin, *J. Hazard. Mater.* **2012**, *237*, 147.
- [25] Y. Yang, X. Wu, M. Ahmad, F. Si, S. Chen, C. Liu, Y. Zhang, L. Wang, J. Zhang, J. Luo, X. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202302950.
- [26] L. Xiao, W. Dai, S. Mou, X. Wang, Q. Cheng, F. Dong, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 2696.
- [27] L. Zhao, Z. Lv, Y. Shi, S. Zhou, Y. Liu, J. Han, Q. Zhang, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 770.
- [28] L. B. Kong, R. T. Wang, X. W. Wang, Z. S. Yang, Y. C. Luo, L. Kang, *Int. J. Appl. Phys. Math.* **2011**, *1*, 5.
- [29] H. Liu, N. Agrawal, A. Ganguly, Y. Chen, J. Lee, J. Yu, W. Huang, M. Mba Wright, M. J. Janik, W. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4175.
- [30] Y. Zhang, J. Wu, X. Zhu, Z. Ren, J. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2024**, *354*, 124093.
- [31] T. Wang, L. Tao, X. Zhu, C. Chen, W. Chen, S. Du, Y. Zhou, B. Zhou, D. Wang, C. Xie, P. Long, W. Li, Y. Wang, R. Chen, Y. Zou, X. Z. Fu, Y. Li, X. Duan, S. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *5*, 66.
- [32] Y. Pan, Y. Li, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, J. Wu, J. Shi, Y. Lu, M. Yang, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 963.
- [33] H. Liu, J. Yu, Y. Chen, J. Lee, W. Huang, W. Li, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, 37477.
- [34] P. Zhou, X. Lv, H. Huang, B. Cheng, H. Zhan, Y. Lu, T. Frauenheim, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *23*, 12402.
- [35] G. Li, G. Han, L. Wang, X. Cui, N. K. Moehring, P. R. Kidambi, D. Jiang, Y. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 525.
- [36] Y. Chen, J. Li, G. Yue, X. Luo, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2017**, *9*, 32.
- [37] J. Geng, Y. Bi, G. Lu, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2009**, *11*, 1255.
- [38] D. Li, X. Zhang, J. Zhu, C. Wu, T. Zheng, C. Li, M. Cao, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2020**, *528*, 146935.
- [39] A. Ejaz, Y. Joo, J. C. Cho, J. M. Choi, J. Y. Kim, S. Lee, S. Jeon, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2018**, *813*, 31.
- [40] L. Su, Y. Cheng, J. Shi, X. Wang, P. Xu, Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, S. Zhang, L. Xinxin, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2022**, *169*, 047507.
- [41] A. Herzog, A. Bergmann, H. S. Jeon, J. Timoshenko, S. Kühl, C. Rettenmaier, M. Lopez Luna, F. T. Haase, B. Roldan Cuenya, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7426.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [42] R. Li, X. Zhu, X. Yan, H. Kobayashi, S. Yoshida, W. Chen, L. Du, K. Qian, B. Wu, S. Zou, L. Lu, W. Yi, Y. Zhou, J. Fan, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 1478.
- [43] H. Zhou, M. Zheng, H. Tang, B. Xu, Y. Tang, H. Pang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1904252.
- [44] X. Wang, B. Liu, Y. Zhang, T. Butburee, K. Ostrikov, S. Wang, W. Huang, *EcoEnergy* **2024**, *1*, 108.
- [45] X. Bai, Q. Liu, J. Liu, H. Zhang, Z. Li, X. Jing, P. Liu, J. Wang, R. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2017**, *315*, 35.
- [46] H. Cai, L. Wang, W. Liu, X. Zhang, B. Chen, P. Mao, J. Fang, R. Gao, C. Shi, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207146.
- [47] D. Su, Z. Lam, Y. Wang, F. Han, M. Zhang, B. Liu, H. Chen, *Joule* **2023**, *7*, 2568.
- [48] Q. Li, J. Wu, L. Lv, L. Zheng, Q. Zheng, S. Li, C. Yang, C. Long, S. Chen, Z. Tang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 230558.
- [49] M. Yang, Y. Li, C. Dong, S. Li, L. Xu, W. Chen, J. Wu, Y. Lu, Y. Pan, Y. Wu, Y. Luo, Y. Huang, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304203.