---
source: Qian 等 - 2023 - Strong electronic coupling of CoNi and N‐doped‐carbon for efficient urea‐assisted H2 prod.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 35.593s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:22:41.035040Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/cey2.368

### RESEARCH ARTICLE

## Strong electronic coupling of CoNi and N‐doped‐carbon for efficient urea‐assisted H2 production at a large current density

Guangfu Qian | Jinli Chen | Wenjie Jiang | Tianqi Yu | Kexin Tan | Shibin Yin

Guangxi Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Energy Materials, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, College of Light Industry and Food Engineering, Guangxi University, Nanning, China

### Correspondence

Shibin Yin, Guangxi Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Energy Materials, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, College of Light Industry and Food Engineering, Guangxi University, 100 Daxue Rd, Nanning 530004, China.

#### Email: [yinshibin@gxu.edu.cn](mailto:yinshibin@gxu.edu.cn)

### Funding information

National Natural Science Foundation of China, Grant/Award Number: Shibin Yin / 22162004

## Abstract

Exploiting efficient urea oxidation reaction (UOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) catalysts are significant for energy‐saving H2 production through urea‐assisted water electrolysis, but it is still challenging. Herein, carbon‐encapsulated CoNi coupled with CoNiMoO (CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO) is prepared by solvothermal method and calcination to enhance the activity/ stability of urea‐assisted water electrolysis at large current density. It exhibits good activity for UOR (E10/1,000 = 1.29/1.40 V) and HER (E−10/−<sup>1000</sup> = −45/ −245 mV) in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution. For the UOR||HER system, CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO only needs 1.58 V at 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and shows good stability. Density functional theory calculation suggests that the strong electronic interaction at the interface between NiCo alloy and N‐doping‐ carbon layers can optimize the adsorption/desorption energy of UOR/HER intermediates and accelerate the water dissociation, which can expedite urea decomposition and Volmer step, thus increasing the UOR and HER activity, respectively. This work provides a new solution to design UOR/HER catalysts for H2 production through urea‐assisted water electrolysis.

### KEYWORDS

carbon‐encapsulated structure, catalyst, hydrogen production, large current density, urea‐assisted water electrolysis

## 1 | INTRODUCTION

Replacing oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is regarded as an effective strategy for energy‐saving H2 generation because of the lower thermodynamic potential of UOR (0.37 V) than OER (1.23 V).1[–](#page-11-0)<sup>3</sup> Meanwhile, the electrocatalytic oxidation of urea can also purify the urea‐rich sanitary/ industrial wastewater to reduce its threats to the environment, and accelerate the nitrogen cycle process.[4,5](#page-11-1) Unfortunately, UOR is a sluggish 6e<sup>−</sup> kinetics process [CO(NH ) (aq) + 6OH CO (g) + N (g) + 5H O(l) + 6e 2 2 <sup>−</sup> 22 2 → <sup>−</sup>, reaction formulas 3–10 in Supporting Information,[6,7](#page-11-2) which involves complicated intermediates transfer,

This is an open access article under the terms of the [Creative Commons Attribution](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

© 2023 The Authors. Carbon Energy published by Wenzhou University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

necessary to develop high-performance catalysts for accelerating this process.<sup>8</sup>

Recently, researchers suggested that Ni-based materials

Recently, researchers suggested that Ni-based materials can be applied as promising substitutes for noble metals because the self-oxidation behavior of Ni at ~1.35 V can form NiOOH active sites for UOR. The recognized UOR process on NiOOH surface is \*+CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>  $\rightarrow$ \*CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>  $\rightarrow$ \*CO(NH<sub>2</sub>·NH)  $\rightarrow$ \*CO(NH·NH)  $\rightarrow$ \*CO(NH·N)  $\rightarrow$ \*CO(N<sub>2</sub>)  $\rightarrow$ \*CO (OH) + N<sub>2</sub>  $\rightarrow$ \*CO(OH·OH)  $\rightarrow$ \*COO  $\rightarrow$ \*+CO<sub>2</sub>, in which \* represents the active sites. Thus, the key intermediates are \*CO(N<sub>2</sub>), \*CO(NH·N), and \*COO. However, due to the strong interaction between Ni<sup>3+</sup> and \*COO, as well as the sluggish oxidation of \*CO(N<sub>2</sub>), the CO-poisoning and weak CO<sub>2</sub>-desorption usually occur in the UOR process for Ni-based materials.

To optimize the adsorption/desorption energies of UOR intermediates, Wang et al.  $^{10}$  discovered that the introduction of Co into  $\beta$ -Ni(OH) $_2$  can effectively modulate its electron density distribution to form  $\beta$ -Co $_{0.1}$ Ni $_{0.9}$ -(OH) $_2$  with hydrogen defect, hence improving UOR activity. Liu et al.  $^9$  proposed that the introduction of Co into Ni-based materials can improve the ability of anti-CO-poisoning for enhancing UOR activity. These results indicate that the combination of Ni and Co is effective to improving the UOR intrinsic activity. However, the reported catalysts cannot exhibit good performance for both HER and UOR, and the activity at large current densities needs to be further improved.

Constructing carbon-encapsulated metals and heterojunction have been regarded as effective methods to improve the UOR/HER performance, 11-15 which can enhance the electron transfer and adjust the electronic structure to accelerate the reaction kinetics of UOR/ HER. 16-20 In addition, the carbon encapsulating layers can act as armor to keep the catalysts with high stability in harsh conditions. 21,22 Yang et al. 23 designed the nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes coated Ni with good UOR/HER activity. The authors suggested that<sup>24</sup> nitrogen dopants are beneficial for CO2-desorption. Bao et al.<sup>22</sup> demonstrated that carbon-encapsulating structure also can regulate the electronic structure of carbon/metal for the N-doped-carbon encapsulated CoNi alloy, thus enhancing the HER activity. Yang et al.<sup>25</sup> designed the NiSe<sub>2</sub>/FeSe<sub>2</sub> p-p heterojunction with good UOR/OER activity. The authors proposed that the charge redistribution at the interface between NiSe2 and FeSe2 favors the adsorption of urea and OH-, improving UOR/ OER activity. But most of the carbon-encapsulated and heterojunction materials can only work at small current densities (<100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and the UOR catalytic mechanism of these materials has rarely been clearly illustrated. Therefore, it is significant to prepare new

catalytic materials with high performance for UOR/HER at large current densities (>500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and study the intrinsic reasons for their high activity to meet the high criteria of commercial application.

This work combines the advantages of CoNi bimetals, carbon-encapsulating structure, heterojunction, and selfsupporting strategy, and thus N-doped-carbon encapsulated CoNi combined with CoNiMoO (CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO) grown on nickel foam is prepared for highefficiency urea-assisted H<sub>2</sub> production. It only needs a low cell voltage of 1.58/1.67 V at 500/1000 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for the UOR||HER system, which is smaller than OER||HER system (1.88/2.01 V). Besides, it can maintain for 120 h at 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> without significant performance decay, suggesting good stability at large current density. According to the density functional theory (DFT) results, the CoNi active sites are optimized by carbon-encapsulating structure to balance the adsorption/desorption energy of UOR intermediates for enhancing their activity. Furthermore, the strong electronic interaction between NiCo and N-doping-carbon layers is beneficial for water dissociation to accelerate the Volmer step, thus optimizing the H\* Gibbs free energy ( $\Delta G_{H^*}$ ) to boost HER activity.

## 2 | RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

### 2.1 | Physical characterization

The CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO is synthesized via two steps as shown in Figure 1A (Experimental details are displayed in Supporting Information). Figure S1 and Video 1 suggest that the nickel foam substrate has good mechanical stability. First, the nanorod precursor with smooth surface (Figure S2a,b) is prepared by the solvothermal method for 12 h at 160°C, which is composed of CoMo<sub>3</sub>O<sub>10</sub>•4.6H<sub>2</sub>O and NiMo<sub>3</sub>O<sub>10</sub>•9H<sub>2</sub>O (Figure S3). Then it is converted to CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO with nanorod/nanoparticles morphology (Figure S2c,d) by calcination at 350°C (N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere, 2 h) and 450°C (H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere with volume ratio of 5%:95%, 2 h).

The composition and carbon defects of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO are investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Raman spectrum. As illustrated in Figure S4, the XRD pattern suggests that the diffraction peaks are assigned to NiCo alloy [(111), (200), and (220) planes],  $Co_2Mo_3O_8$  (PDF#34-0511), and  $Ni_2Mo_3O_8$  (PDF#37-0855). According to the Raman spectrum (Figure S5), the area ratio of D (Area<sub>D</sub>) to G (Area<sub>G</sub>) is 1.29. This value is larger than that of the precursor (Figure S6), which is beneficial for UOR/HER. Furthermore, it is noticed that the calcination temperature in  $H_2/Ar$  atmosphere is crucial for the formation of the ideal

<span id="page-2-0"></span>FIGURE 1 (A) Synthetic illustration of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO; (B–D) TEM and (E–K) high‐angle annular dark‐field scanning TEM and energy‐dispersive X‐ray spectroscopy mapping pictures of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO.

catalyst. As shown in SEM, Raman, and XRD results (Figures S1‐9), NiCo alloy phase with lower crystallinity and carbon with fewer defects are obtained at lower temperatures, while the higher temperature leads to the destruction and shrinkage of nano morphology; therefore, 450°C is the optimum temperature to obtain the satisfactory structure. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image (Figure [1B](#page-2-0)) further shows the nanorod/nanoparticles morphology. The high‐resolution TEM (HRTEM, Figure [1C](#page-2-0)) image indicates that the (111) plane of CoNi (0.211 nm) is encapsulated by approximately three carbon layers. The existence of carbon layers can not only activate the UOR/HER activity but also avoid corrosion of CoNi alloy by electrolyte for boosting the chemical stability[.27,28](#page-11-14) Notably, the nanointerface can be clearly observed between CoNi alloy and CoNiMoO (Figure [1D](#page-2-0)), which is favorable for the UOR/HER activity.[16](#page-11-8) Besides, CoNiMoO is composed of Co2Mo3O8 [(202), (211)] and Ni2Mo3O8 [(102)], which is in accordance with the XRD result. Figure [1E](#page-2-0)–K indicates the uniform distribution of C, O, N, Co, Ni, and Mo elements.

X‐ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) is employed to further detect the chemical states of catalysts' surfaces. For CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO, the XPS survey spectrum (Figure S10) reveals the presence of C, O, N, Co, Ni, and Mo, which is in accordance with energy‐dispersive X‐ray spectroscopy mapping pictures. In the Ni 2p spectrum (Figure [2A](#page-3-0)), six peaks can be assigned to Ni0 2p (852.4/869.7 eV), Ni2+ 2p (854.9/872.2 eV), Ni3+ 2p (856.3/873.6 eV), and the other two peaks (861.6/ 878.9 eV) are ascribed to satellite peaks. In Figure [2B,](#page-3-0) the eight peaks located at 778.2/793.6, 782.8/798.2, 780.6/796, and 786.6/802 eV can be indexed to Co<sup>0</sup> 2p, Co2+ 2p, Co3+ 2p, and the satellite peak for Co 2p spectrum, respectively. For Mo 3d spectrum (Figure [2C\)](#page-3-0), the peaks located at 232.1/229.0 (Mo4+ 3d), 232.9/229.8 (Mo5+ 3d), and 234.7/231.6 (Mo6+ 3d) eV are derived from Mo−O bonding.[29](#page-11-15) Because the sample is exposed to the air inevitably, the high valence Co, Ni, and Mo are detected.[30,31](#page-11-16) For the O 1 s spectrum, two peaks at 532.3 and 530.8 eV are attributed to adsorbed‐O and CoNiMo‐ O (Figure [2D\)](#page-3-0), respectively. As displayed in Figure [2E](#page-3-0), the C 1s of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO are assigned to 284.8 (C−C), 286.5 (C−N), and 288.4 eV (C═O), and the pyridinic‐N and graphitic‐N are located at 398.4 and 401.4 eV (Figure [2F](#page-3-0)), respectively,[32,33](#page-11-17) demonstrating the formation of N‐doped‐carbon.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>FIGURE 2 XPS spectra of (A) Ni 2p and (B) Co 2p of CoNi‐CoNiMoO and CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO; (C) Mo 3d, (D) O 1s, (E) C 1s, and (F) N 1s of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO.

More importantly, the high-resolution XPS spectra of Co<sup>0</sup> 2p and Ni<sup>0</sup> 2p in CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO both exhibit positive shifts compared with CoNi-CoNiMoO (Figure 2A,B), implying the electronic interaction between N-doped-carbon and CoNi alloy. Furthermore, the charge density difference (Figure S45) of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO indicates the electron transfer from CoNi alloy to N-doped-carbon at the interface. This interaction could obtain the positively charged CoNi core and negatively charged N-doped-carbon layers, <sup>28</sup> which could act as active sites for UOR and HER, optimizing the adsorption/desorption energy of urea/hydrogen reaction intermediates and water dissociation energy to improve UOR/HER activity.

From the above results, the formation mechanism of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO can be concluded as follows: (1) Ethylene glycol and  $\rm H_{24}Mo_7N_6O_{24}{}^{\bullet}4H_2O$  are used as the carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively; (2) Due to the different enthalpy of Co, Ni, and Mo, parts of Co/Ni atoms will segregate from precursor to form the CoNi alloy; (3) The C and N sources can be in situ catalytically transformed into N-doped-carbon due to the catalytic effect of CoNi alloy<sup>22,34,35</sup>; (4) Mo and O atoms will combine with other Co and Ni atoms to form  $\rm Co_2Mo_3O_8$  and  $\rm Ni_2Mo_3O_8$ . Therefore the heterostructure is formed between CoNi@CN and NiCoMoO.

# 2.2 | Electrochemical characterization for UOR

The UOR activity of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO is assessed by the standard three-electrode system in 1.0 M KOH with different concentrations of urea solution. Figure S11 shows that it has the best UOR activity in 1.0 M KOH with 0.5 M urea solution. Furthermore, the UOR linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO with/without *iR* correction are shown in Figure S12. And Figure 3A displays that the CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO with N-doped-carbon has faster UOR kinetics than CoNi-CoNiMoO.

To meet the need for a large-scale application for UOR, catalysts must have low potentials at both small and large current densities. Figure 3B,C exhibits that CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO has low potentials of 1.29/1.37 V at 10/500 mA cm $^{-2}$ , which is superior to CoNi-CoNiMoO ( $E_{10/500}=1.33/1.46\,\mathrm{V}$ ), indicating that the N-doped-carbon encapsulating structure is beneficial for enhancing the UOR intrinsic activity. Besides, the UOR activity of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO is also better than that of CoNi@CN ( $E_{10/500}=1.32/1.49\,\mathrm{V}$ , Figure S13), which suggests that the formation of heterojunction composed of CoNiMoO and CoNi@CN can enhance the UOR activity. Meanwhile, the activity of

CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO is significantly better than those of precursor ( $E_{10/500} = 1.34/1.61 \,\mathrm{V}$ ), IrO<sub>2</sub>/C ( $E_{10/500} = 1.35/1.50 \,\mathrm{V}$ ), NF ( $E_{10/500} = 1.37/1.67 \,\mathrm{V}$ ), and most of the reported Ni-based materials (Figure 3D and Table S1).<sup>6,16,23,36-43</sup> Importantly, CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO only needs 1.40 V at 1000 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which displays good prospect for industrial applications.

Meanwhile, Figure S14 shows that the best UOR activity is obtained by calcination at 450°C ( $\rm H_2/Ar$  atmosphere). CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO displays lower potentials than CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO-2 ( $E_{10/500} = 1.32/1.44$  V) and CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO-3 ( $E_{10/500} = 1.31/1.42$  V), indicating that the sample with a Ni:Co molar ratio of 1:1 has the highest UOR activity (Figure S15). Remarkably, CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO displays inferior OER activity ( $E_{500} = 1.61$  V) (Figure 3E), which is larger than the potential (1.37 V) of UOR at 500 mA cm $^{-2}$ , suggesting that replacing the sluggish OER at the anode with a thermodynamically beneficial UOR is an efficient method to improve the energy conversion efficiency of water electrolysis.

Tafel slopes are acquired from LSV curves to evaluate the UOR kinetics of catalysts. CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO has a smaller Tafel slope (30 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than those of CoNi- $(41 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , precursor  $(62 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ ,  $IrO_2/C$  (53 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and NF (83 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that it has the fastest UOR kinetics among all catalysts (Figure 3F). Additionally, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) is also employed to assess the UOR kinetics. Figure S16 illustrates that the CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO shows the lowest charge transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$ , which is consistent with Tafel results, confirming its good charge transfer kinetics in the UOR process. Subsequently, its UOR LSV curves at different scan rates  $(5\sim50 \text{ mV s}^{-1})$  without iR correction in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution indicate the excellent charge transfer capability and non-capacitive-control characteristic of the catalyst during UOR (Figure S17).

Stability at large current density is an important index to evaluate its ability for practical application. Figure 3G shows the good UOR stability of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO at  $500 \,\mathrm{mA \, cm^{-2}}$  for  $120 \,\mathrm{h}$  in  $1.0 \,\mathrm{M}$  KOH +  $0.5 \,\mathrm{M}$  urea solution, which is better than those of CoNi-CoNiMoO (Figure S18) and CoNi@CN (Figure S19). This result further verifies that the N-doped-carbon encapsulating structure and the existence of heterojunction can effectively improve the stability of the catalyst, because the N-doped-carbon can act as armor to avoid the corrosion of electrolytes toward the internal metal. Furthermore, the heterojunction structure composed of CoNiMoO and CoNi@CN presents the nanorod/nanoparticles morphology supported on nickel foam. This morphology can expose more active sites and prevent the aggregation and Ostwald ripening of the catalyst to

<span id="page-5-0"></span>FIGURE 3 (A) UOR mechanism, CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO shows better UOR kinetics than CoNi‐CoNiMoO; (B) UOR LSV curves of all catalysts in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea; (C) UOR potentials of all catalysts at 10/500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ; (D) comparison of UOR potentials with reported works; (E) UOR LSV curves of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO in 1.0 M KOH with/without urea; (F) Tafel slopes; (G) chronopotentiometry curve.

improve stability. Meanwhile, it can also facilitate the gas and liquid transfer during the urea‐assisted water electrolysis process at a large current density.

Additionally, Figure S20 shows the negligible changes for LSV and Nyquist curves of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO before and after the chronopotentiometry (CP) test. Additionally, the SEM (Figure S21), TEM (Figure S22), and Raman (Figure S23) results after the CP test all indicate its good stability. For XPS results (Figure S24a,b), the Ni0 and Co0 of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO disappear after the UOR stability test, which could be due to the formation of NiOOH/ CoOOH active sites (Supporting Information, Reaction formulas 11–16)[,44](#page-12-0)–<sup>46</sup> thus maintaining high UOR activity at large current density during the stability test.

In Figure S24c, Mo<sup>4+</sup> is oxidized to Mo<sup>6+</sup> and Mo<sup>5+</sup>, which can conduce to the conversion of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>2+</sup> into Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> to generate NiOOH/CoOOH for boosting UOR activity. Besides, the combination of Mo, Ni, and Co could optimize the adsorption/desorption energy of \*NH2 and \*CO intermediates on the active sites for UOR. 47 The existence of Mo can make the Co/Ni element easier to be oxidized to a higher oxidation state and promote the oxidation of \*CO, thereby reducing UOR overpotential and improving stability.<sup>48</sup> Meanwhile, the presence of Co atoms and N-doping-carbon layers can promote the oxidation of carbonaceous compounds to enhance the ability of anti-CO/CO<sub>2</sub> poisoning for improving UOR durability. 9,23

## **Electrochemical characterization** for HER

The HER performance of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO is investigated in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution. Figure 4A indicates that it shows better HER kinetics than CoNi-CoNiMoO. Figure \$25 displays the HER LSV curves of the catalyst with/without iR correction. In Figure 4B,C, it is worth noting that CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO  $(E_{-10/-500} = -45/-168 \text{ mV})$  shows higher HER activity than CoNi-CoNiMoO ( $E_{-10/-500} = -60/-284 \text{ mV}$ ). This result suggests that the N-doped-carbon structure can effectively improve the HER intrinsic activity at both small and large current densities. The HER activity of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO surpasses that of CoNi@CN  $(E_{-10/-500} = -85/-362 \text{ mV}, \text{ Figure } S26), \text{ indicating that}$ the heterojunction composed of CoNiMoO and CoNi@CN is beneficial for enhancing the HER intrinsic activity. In addition, the HER activity of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO is better than those of precursor  $(E_{-10/-500} =$ -148/-431 mV) and NF ( $E_{-10/-500} = -229/-539 \text{ mV}$ ), as well as most of the reported Ni-based materials (Figure 4D and Table S2),6,16,23,36-39,41 and it is close to Pt/C ( $E_{-10/-500} = -26/-157 \text{ mV}$ ). Notably, it only needs  $-245 \,\mathrm{mV}$  at  $-1000 \,\mathrm{mA \, cm}^{-2}$ , exhibiting the prospect of industrial applications.

Figure 4E implies that the existence of urea in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte has no obvious effect on HER activity. And the best HER activity is obtained by calcination at 450°C in H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere (Figure S27). Furthermore, CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO needs lower potentials to drive  $-10/500 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ than CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO-2  $(E_{-10/-500} = -69/-258 \text{ mV})$ and CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO-3  $(E_{-10/-500} = -58/-246 \text{ mV},$ Figure S28), suggesting that 1:1 is the optimal molar ratio of Ni to Co for HER activity.

Subsequently, the HER kinetics of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO are researched by Tafel slopes and EIS. Its Tafel slope (Figure 4F, 61 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) is much smaller than those of CoNi-CoNiMoO (124 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), precursor  $(147 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , and NF  $(190 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , and close to Pt/C (38 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), implying that it follows the Vomer-Heyrovsky mechanism.<sup>27,49</sup> Furthermore, CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO shows the lowest  $R_{ct}$  among all catalysts. The above results indicate its fast electron transfer rate and remarkable HER kinetics. Figure S29 implies that it has excellent charge transfer capability. And it undergoes noncapacitive control for HER (Figure S30). Meanwhile, its Faraday efficiency is close to 100% (Figure S31), which is derived from the volume of H<sub>2</sub> theoretically calculated and experimentally measured. Electrochemical surface area (ECSA) is proportional to double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) measured by the cyclic voltammetry (CV) method (Figure S32a,c,e), which can reflect the number of active sites. The  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO (145.13 mF) is superior to CoNi-CoNiMoO (71.67 mF) and CoNi@CN (35.50 mF) (Figure S32b,d,f), indicating that it possesses the most active sites among all the samples. And the UOR and HER LSV curves are normalized by ECSA (Figure S33),<sup>50</sup> which is in accordance with the initial results, implying that the N-doped-carbon encapsulating structure and heterojunction of CoNi@CN and CoNiMoO are beneficial for increasing the number of active sites and boosting UOR/HER intrinsic activity.

CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO also shows better HER stability at  $-500 \,\mathrm{mA}\,\mathrm{cm}^{-2}$  (Figure 4G) than CoNi-CoNiMoO (Figure S34) and CoNi@CN (Figure S35), suggesting that the stability of the catalyst can be enhanced by the N-doped-carbon encapsulating structure and the heterojunction. The reason for such good HER stability is the same as UOR. Besides, Figure S36 shows that the changes in LSV and Nyquist curves before and after the CP test are negligible. SEM (Figure S37), TEM (Figure S38), Raman (Figure S39), and XPS (Figure \$40) results after the CP test all indicate good HER stability.

#### **Urea-assisted water electrolysis** 2.4

Considering the good UOR/HER activity of CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO, it is used as the cathode and anode simultaneously for urea-assisted water electrolysis (Figure 5A). It only needs  $1.34/1.58 \, \text{V}$  to reach  $10/500 \, \text{mA cm}^{-2}$ (Figure 5B), which is obviously smaller than those of the  $Pt/C//IrO_2/C$  system  $(E_{10/500} = 1.40/1.99 \text{ V})$  and most of the reported values (Figure 5C and Table S3), 6,16,17,36,38,39,41,51,52 confirming its prospect for urea-assisted water electrolysis. CoNi@CN-CoNiMoO only requires voltages of 1.34/1.58/  $1.67\,\mathrm{V}$  at  $10/500/1,000\,\mathrm{mA\,cm^{-2}}$  for the UOR||HER system

<span id="page-7-0"></span>FIGURE 4 (A) HER mechanism, CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO shows better HER kinetics than CN; (B) HER LSV curves of catalysts in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea; (C) HER potentials of all catalysts at −10/−500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ; (D) comparing of HER overpotentials with reported works; (E) HER LSV curves of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO in 1.0 M KOH with/without urea; (F) Tafel slopes; (G) chronopotentiometry curve.

(Figure [5D](#page-8-0)), which is 70/300/342 mV lower than that of the OER||HER system (1.41/1.88/2.01 V), verifying that urea‐ assisted water electrolysis is energy‐efficient for H2 generation. Additionally, the UOR||HER system can continuously produce H2 for 120 h at 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure [5E\)](#page-8-0), showing its potential for large‐scale H2 generation and urea‐rich wastewater purification.

## 2.5 | DFT calculation for UOR and HER

DFT calculations are employed to verify the synergistic effect between CoNi alloy and N‐doped‐carbon, which can enhance the UOR/HER performance of the catalyst. Combined with the HRTEM/XPS/XRD results, theoretical calculation, and works of literature reported,[26](#page-11-19) the models

<span id="page-8-0"></span>FIGURE 5 (A) Schematic illustration of urea electrolysis using CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO as anode and cathode; (B) urea‐assisted water electrolysis LSV curves of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO and Pt/C//IrO2/C in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea; (C) comparing urea‐assisted water electrolysis potentials with reported works; (D) urea‐assisted water electrolysis LSV curves of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO in urea electrolysis and water electrolysis; (E) chronopotentiometry curve of urea electrolysis.

of N‐doped‐carbon, CoNi‐CoNiMoO, and CoNi@CN‐ CoNiMoO with different molar ratios of Ni/Co are constructed (Figure S41). Generally, the adsorption energy of water and urea molecules on the surface of the catalyst is a crucial index in the process of urea oxidation, because UOR and OER will compete with each other[.53](#page-12-4) Models for water and urea adsorption on different catalysts are displayed in Figures S42 and S43. Figure S44 suggests that the urea molecule is more easily adsorbed on the catalyst than on the water molecule, indicating the dominance of UOR over OER. More importantly, CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO (−1.16 eV) exhibits stronger urea adsorption energy compared with CoNi‐CoNiMoO (−1.12 eV), which indicates that the N‐doped‐carbon encapsulating structure can effectively enhance the urea adsorption, facilitating UOR process. Besides, the urea molecule adsorption on the surface of CoNi alloy with different ratios of Ni/Co before/after N‐doped‐carbon encapsulation is an exothermic reaction; therefore, the urea molecule adsorption is a spontaneous reaction on the active site. The urea adsorption energy on CoNi@CN‐ CoNiMoO (−1.16 eV) is moderate, which is stronger than those of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐2 (−1.08 eV) and weaker than CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐3 (−1.25 eV), suggesting that

the molar ratio of Ni/Co plays an important role in regulating the adsorption energy of urea molecule.

The free energy of the UOR pathway is calculated to reveal the superiority of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO. \*CON2 is formed firstly by dehydrogenation of the urea molecules adsorbed on the surface of catalysts [\*CO(NH2·NH2) → \*CO (NH·NH2) → \*CO(N·NH2) → \*CO(NH·N) → \*CON2], and the generated ΔG value of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO is smaller than that of CoNi‐CoNiMoO, especially for the rate‐determining step (RDS, Figure [6A](#page-9-0)). This result can be ascribed to that the N‐doping‐carbon encapsulating structure can effectively reduce the electron density of Co/Ni, as shown in the charge density difference plot (Figure S45), which can facilitate the cleavage of N−H bonds. Besides, during this 6e<sup>−</sup> reaction (Figure [6A](#page-9-0)), Co atoms with high oxygen affinity can stabilize the carbonyl group, while the highly active Ni atoms combine with the N atoms to enhance the UOR kinetics. Then, \*CON2 undergoes C−N breakage and N−N coupling processes to form \*CO. Subsequently, the \*CO is attacked by OH<sup>−</sup> to generate \*COOH. Due to the existence of N‐doping‐carbon and the catalytic oxidation ability of Co to carbon monoxide,[9](#page-11-6) CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO obtains a lower ΔG value of \*COOH than CoNi‐CoNiMoO, and this can effectively alleviate poisoning on the catalyst. Furthermore, compared with traditional nickel‐based materials, the RDS (Figure [6A\)](#page-9-0) changes from \*COO → \* + CO2 to \*CO(NH2)2 → \*CO(NH·NH2) on both the surface of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO and CoNi‐CoNiMoO and the CO2‐desorption is a

<span id="page-9-0"></span>FIGURE 6 (A) UOR energy pathways of catalysts, insert images are 6e<sup>−</sup> steps of urea oxidation on catalysts; (B) DOS, (C) schematic diagram of water dissociation and (D) ΔGH\* for catalysts.

spontaneous reaction, which can improve the anti‐poisoning ability for CO2. [23](#page-11-10) Partial density of states (PDOS) are employed to further study the essential reasons for the enhanced activity. In Figure [6B,](#page-9-0) the Ni PDOS of CoNi@CN‐ CoNiMoO shows a value (−0.95 eV) closer to Ef, which acts as the active site for fast electron transfer. Meanwhile, C and N orbitals show a wide distribution range located at the deep positions of the Ef, suggesting the electron‐rich characteristic, which can not only contribute to maintaining the valence of Ni/Co site but also balance the adsorption/desorption of reaction intermediates on the active sites. More importantly, compared with CoNi‐CoNiMoO, the d‐band centers of Co and Ni for CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO (Figure [6B\)](#page-9-0) shift up. These results indicate that N‐doping‐carbon layers can modulate the electronic structure of Ni/Co, accelerating electron transfer to enhance the UOR activity. Besides, the Ni d‐ band center of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐2 and CoNi@CN‐ CoNiMoO‐3 exhibits larger or smaller shifts than that of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO in Figure [6B](#page-9-0), which results in the strong or weak adsorption for UOR intermediates. This result reveals that CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO has optimum adsorption for UOR intermediates in comparison to CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐2 and CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐3, showing the highest UOR intrinsic activity.

Generally, the ortho‐carbon of pyridine‐N acts as the HER active site;[26,54](#page-11-19) thus, it is used as a research object in this work, and the \*H adsorption sites of CN, CoNi‐ CoNiMoO, CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO, CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐2, and CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐3 are shown in Figures S46 and S47. As known, due to the lack of hydrogen ions in alkaline solutions, the \*H is formed only by water dissociation;[55](#page-12-5)–<sup>57</sup> and thus, the Volmer step is important for HER. In Figure [6C](#page-9-0), CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO (0.79 eV) displays a lower water dissociation energy than CoNi‐ CoNiMoO (0.88 eV), indicating that the former with N‐ doping‐carbon layers can accelerate the Volmer step. Besides, the H\* Gibbs free energy value (ΔGH\*) is an important HER activity descriptor[.58,59](#page-12-6) It can be seen in Figure [6D](#page-9-0) that the ΔGH\* value (0.03 eV) closer to zero can be obtained for the ortho‐carbon of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO in comparison with that of N‐doped‐carbon (1.3 eV) and CoNi‐ CoNiMoO (fcc, −0.33 eV), indicating that the N‐doped‐ carbon encapsulating structure can accelerate the HER kinetics. As Figure S48 indicated, the ΔGH\* value for the ortho‐carbon of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO models is also closer to zero than those of CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐2 (0.41 eV) and CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐3 (−0.29 eV), which implies that the Ni/Co ratios have an influence on the HER activity of N‐ doped‐carbon.

Simultaneously, the PDOS and COHP are used to study the electronic structure of the N‐doped‐carbon and the interaction strength between ortho‐carbon and hydrogen, respectively. In Figure S49a, the PDOS of C in CoNi@CN‐ CoNiMoO exhibits a broad range compared to N‐doped‐ carbon. This result indicates that the PDOS with a broad range is beneficial for stabilizing the bond between the active site and hydrogen to optimize the adsorption of hydrogen and boost the charge‐transfer kinetics of HER. Besides, the data for Ni/Co ratio also shows similar results (Figure S49b). Meanwhile, in Figure S50, the COHP of C−H for CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO (1.66) is larger than that of N‐doped‐ carbon (1.60), suggesting that the stronger C−H bonding can be obtained on the surface of carbon for CoNi@CN‐ CoNiMoO. Besides, as shown in Figure S51, it displays the moderate COHP value (derived from PDOS, Figure S52) of C−H compared to CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐2 (1.72) and CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO‐3 (1.64), which indicates that CoNi@CN‐CoNiMoO has the optimal adsorption/desorption for hydrogen intermediates. The above results show that the N‐doped‐carbon encapsulated CoNi alloy structure can effectively adjust the electronic structure of both N‐doped‐ carbon and CoNi to optimize the adsorption/desorption of the urea/hydrogen reaction intermediates, thus increasing the UOR/HER intrinsic activity.

## 3 | CONCLUSIONS

In conclusion, the N‐doped‐carbon encapsulated CoNi coupled with CoNiMoO grown on nickel foam is prepared for high‐efficiency urea‐assisted H2 production at large current density. It requires low potentials for UOR (E10/1000 = 1.29/1.40 V) and HER (E−10/−<sup>1000</sup> = −45/ −245 mV) and displays the satisfied stability toward UOR/HER at 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M urea solution. Importantly, for UOR||HER system, it displays a low cell voltage of 1.58/1.67 V at 500/1000 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which is 300/342 mV less than that of the OER||HER system. Furthermore, it also exhibits superior stability at 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for 120 h, implying the potential for commercial applications. DFT calculation indicates that it can not only balance the adsorption/desorption energy of urea/hydrogen reaction intermediates on the active sites for UOR/HER but also reduce the water dissociation energy to accelerate the Volmer step, enhancing HER activity. Hence, this work provides an effective strategy to design high‐performance catalysts for energy‐saving H2 production by urea‐assisted water electrolysis.

### ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22162004), the Excellent Scholars and Innovation Team of Guangxi Universities, the Innovation Project of Guangxi Graduate Education (YCBZ2022038), and the High‐performance Computing Platform of Guangxi University.

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

### ORCID

Shibin Yin <http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1539-4474>

## REFERENCES

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>1. Qin X, Kim D, Piao Y. Metal‐organic frameworks‐derived novel nanostructured electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction. Carbon Energy. 2021;3(1):66‐100.
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>2. Geng SK, Zheng Y, Li SQ, et al. Nickel ferrocyanide as a high‐ performance urea oxidation electrocatalyst. Nat Energy. 2021;6(9):904‐912.
- 3. Ji J, Hou Y, Zhou S, et al. Oxygen‐coordinated low‐nucleus cluster catalysts for enhanced electrocatalytic water oxidation. Carbon Energy. 2023;5(2):e216.
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>4. Kumar A, Liu X, Lee J, et al. Discovering ultrahigh loading of single‐metal‐atoms via surface tensile‐strain for unprecedented urea electrolysis. Energy Environ Sci. 2021; 14(12):6494‐6505.
- 5. Pei C, Chen S, Zhao T, et al. Nanostructured metallic glass in a highly upgraded energy state contributing to efficient catalytic performance. Adv Mater. 2022;34(26):2200850.
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>6. Jiang H, Sun M, Wu S, Huang B, Lee CS, Zhang W. Oxygen‐ incorporated NiMoP nanotube arrays as efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts for urea‐assisted energy‐saving hydrogen production in alkaline electrolyte. Adv Funct Mater. 2021; 31(43):2104951.
- 7. Wang X, Zhang G, Yin W, et al. Metal‐organic framework‐ derived phosphide nanomaterials for electrochemical applications. Carbon Energy. 2022;4(2):246‐281.
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>8. Zhang L, Wang L, Lin H, et al. A lattice‐oxygen‐involved reaction pathway to boost urea oxidation. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2019;58(47):16820‐16825.
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>9. Ji Z, Song Y, Zhao S, Li Y, Liu J, Hu W. Pathway manipulation via Ni, Co, and V ternary synergism to realize high efficiency for urea electrocatalytic oxidation. ACS Catal. 2021;12(1):569‐579.
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>10. Chen W, Xu L, Zhu X, et al. Unveiling the electrooxidation of urea: intramolecular coupling of the N‐N bond. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2021;60(13):7297‐7307.
- <span id="page-11-7"></span>11. Ji X, Zhang Y, Ma Z, Qiu Y. Oxygen vacancy‐rich Ni/NiO@NC nanosheets with Schottky heterointerface for efficient urea oxidation reaction. ChemSusChem. 2020;13(18):5004‐5014.
- 12. Wu MJ, Zhang GX, Hu YF, et al. Graphitic‐shell encapsulated FeNi alloy/nitride nanocrystals on biomass‐derived N‐doped carbon as an efficient electrocatalyst for rechargeable Zn‐air battery. Carbon Energy. 2020;3(1):176‐187.
- 13. Song W, Li M, Wang C, Lu X. Electronic modulation and interface engineering of electrospun nanomaterials‐based electrocatalysts toward water splitting. Carbon Energy. 2020;3(1):101‐128.
- 14. Wang T, Wang P, Zang W, et al. Nanoframes of Co3O4‐Mo2N heterointerfaces enable high‐performance bifunctionality toward both electrocatalytic HER and OER. Adv Funct Mater. 2021;32(7):2107382.
- 15. Yang W, Zhang W, Liu R, et al. Amorphous Ru nanoclusters onto Co‐doped 1D carbon nanocages enables efficient hydrogen evolution catalysis. Chin J Catal. 2022;43(1):110‐115.

- <span id="page-11-8"></span>16. Wang C, Lu H, Mao Z, Yan C, Shen G, Wang X. Bimetal Schottky heterojunction boosting energy‐saving hydrogen production from alkaline water via urea electrocatalysis. Adv Funct Mater. 2020;30(21):2000556.
- 17. Li C, Liu Y, Zhuo Z, et al. Local charge distribution engineered by Schottky heterojunctions toward urea electrolysis. Adv Energy Mater. 2018;8(27):1801775.
- 18. Pu Z, Zhao J, Amiinu IS, et al. A universal synthesis strategy for P‐rich noble metal diphosphide‐based electrocatalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction. Energy Environ Sci. 2019; 12(3):952‐957.
- 19. Wang M, Zhang C, Meng T, et al. Iron oxide and phosphide encapsulated within N,P‐doped microporous carbon nanofibers as advanced tri‐functional electrocatalyst toward oxygen reduction/evolution and hydrogen evolution reactions and zinc‐air batteries. J Power Sources. 2019;413:367‐375.
- 20. Shi W, Zhu J, Gong L, et al. Fe‐incorporated Ni/MoO2 hollow heterostructure nanorod arrays for high‐efficiency overall water splitting in alkaline and seawater media. Small. 2022; 18(52):2205683.
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>21. Jin H, Wang X, Tang C, et al. Stable and highly efficient hydrogen evolution from seawater enabled by an unsaturated nickel surface nitride. Adv Mater. 2021;33(13):2007508.
- <span id="page-11-12"></span>22. Deng J, Ren P, Deng D, Bao X. Enhanced electron penetration through an ultrathin graphene layer for highly efficient catalysis of the hydrogen evolution reaction. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2015;54(7):2100‐2104.
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>23. Zhang Q, Kazim FM, Ma S, et al. Nitrogen dopants in nickel nanoparticles embedded carbon nanotubes promote overall urea oxidation. Appl Catal B. 2021;280:119436.
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>24. Wang Z, Xiao B, Lin Z, et al. PtSe2/Pt heterointerface with reduced coordination for boosted hydrogen evolution reaction. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2021;60(43):23388‐23393.
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>25. Ni S, Qu H, Xu Z, et al. Interfacial engineering of the NiSe2/ FeSe2 p‐p heterojunction for promoting oxygen evolution reaction and electrocatalytic urea oxidation. Appl Catal B. 2021;299:120638.
- <span id="page-11-19"></span>26. Zhao D, Sun K, Cheong WC, et al. Synergistically interactive pyridinic‐N‐MoP sites: identified active centers for enhanced hydrogen evolution in alkaline solution. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2020;59(23):8982‐8990.
- <span id="page-11-14"></span>27. Lu J, Yin S, Shen PK. Carbon‐encapsulated electrocatalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction. Electrochem Energy Rev. 2018;2(1):105‐127.
- <span id="page-11-18"></span>28. Jiang H, Yan L, Zhang S, et al. Electrochemical surface restructuring of phosphorus‐doped carbon@MoP electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution. Nano‐Micro Lett. 2021;13(1):215.
- <span id="page-11-15"></span>29. Yang G, Jiao Y, Yan H, et al. Interfacial engineering of MoO2‐FeP heterojunction for highly efficient hydrogen evolution coupled with biomass electrooxidation. Adv Mater. 2020;32(17):2000455.
- <span id="page-11-16"></span>30. Zhang B, Zhang L, Tan Q, et al. Simultaneous interfacial chemistry and inner Helmholtz plane regulation for superior alkaline hydrogen evolution. Energy Environ Sci. 2020;13(9): 3007‐3013.
- 31. Qian G, Chen J, Yu T, Liu J, Luo L, Yin S. Three‐phase heterojunction NiMo‐based nano‐needle for water splitting at industrial alkaline condition. Nano‐Micro Lett. 2021;14(1):20.
- <span id="page-11-17"></span>32. Chen Z, Qing H, Wang R, Wu R. Charge pumping enabling Co‐NC to outperform benchmark Pt catalyst for pH‐universal

- hydrogen evolution reaction. Energy Environ Sci. 2021;14(5): 3160‐3173.
- 33. Qian G, Chen J, Yu T, Luo L, Yin S. N‐doped graphene‐ decorated NiCo alloy coupled with mesoporous NiCoMoO nano‐sheet heterojunction for enhanced water electrolysis activity at high current density. Nano‐Micro Lett. 2021;13(1):77.
- 34. Wang C, Yang H, Zhang Y, Wang Q. NiFe alloy nanoparticles with hcp crystal structure stimulate superior oxygen evolution reaction electrocatalytic activity. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2019;58(18):6099‐6103.
- 35. Huang C, Zhang B, Wu Y, et al. Experimental and theoretical investigation of reconstruction and active phases on honeycombed Ni3N‐Co3N/C in water splitting. Appl Catal B. 2021;297:120461.
- 36. Liu J, Wang Y, Liao Y, et al. Heterostructured Ni3S2‐Ni3P/NF as a bifunctional catalyst for overall urea‐water electrolysis for hydrogen generation. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2021;13(23): 26948‐26959.
- 37. Liu G, Huang C, Yang Z, Su J, Zhang W. Ultrathin NiMn‐LDH nanosheet structured electrocatalyst for enhanced electrocatalytic urea oxidation. Appl Catal A. 2021;614:118049.
- 38. Li RQ, Wan XY, Chen BL, et al. Hierarchical Ni3N/ Ni0.2Mo0.8N heterostructure nanorods arrays as efficient electrocatalysts for overall water and urea electrolysis. Chem Eng J. 2021;409:128240.
- 39. Li RQ, Liu Q, Zhou Y, et al. 3D self‐supported porous vanadium‐doped nickel nitride nanosheet arrays as efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts for urea electrolysis. J Mater Chem A. 2021;9(7):4159‐4166.
- 40. Chen N, Du YX, Zhang G, Lu WT, Cao FF. Amorphous nickel sulfoselenide for efficient electrochemical urea‐assisted hydrogen production in alkaline media. Nano Energy. 2021;81:105605.
- 41. Zhang JY, He T, Wang M, et al. Energy‐saving hydrogen production coupling urea oxidation over a bifunctional nickel‐ molybdenum nanotube array. Nano Energy. 2019;60:894‐902.
- 42. Xu X, Guo T, Xia J, et al. Modulation of the crystalline/ amorphous interface engineering on Ni‐P‐O‐based catalysts for boosting urea electrolysis at large current densities. Chem Eng J. 2021;425:130514.
- 43. Yu ZY, Lang CC, Gao MR, et al. Ni‐Mo‐O nanorod‐derived composite catalysts for efficient alkaline water‐to‐hydrogen conversion via urea electrolysis. Energy Environ Sci. 2018; 11(7):1890‐1897.
- <span id="page-12-0"></span>44. Wang T, Wu H, Feng C, Zhang L, Zhang J. MoP@NiCo‐LDH on nickel foam as bifunctional electrocatalyst for high efficiency water and urea‐water electrolysis. J Mater Chem A. 2020;8(35):18106‐18116.
- 45. Dresp S, Ngo Thanh T, Klingenhof M, Brückner S, Hauke P, Strasser P. Efficient direct seawater electrolysers using selective alkaline NiFe‐LDH as OER catalyst in asymmetric electrolyte feeds. Energy Environ Sci. 2020;13(6):1725‐1729.
- 46. Hao P, Wen H, Wang Q, et al. Superassembly of NiCoO<sup>x</sup> solid solution hybrids with a 2D/3D porous polyhedron‐on‐sheet structure for multi‐functional electrocatalytic oxidation. J Mater Chem A. 2021;9(13):8576‐8585.
- <span id="page-12-1"></span>47. Xu H, Liao Y, Gao Z, Qing Y, Wu Y, Xia L. A branch‐like Mo‐ doped Ni3S2 nanoforest as a high‐efficiency and durable catalyst for overall urea electrolysis. J Mater Chem A. 2021; 9(6):3418‐3426.

- <span id="page-12-2"></span>48. Shi W, Sun X, Ding R, et al. Trimetallic NiCoMo/graphene multifunctional electrocatalysts with moderate structural/ electronic effects for highly efficient alkaline urea oxidation reaction. Chem Commun. 2020;56(48):6503‐6506.
- 49. Jing S, Lu J, Yu G, et al. Carbon‐encapsulated WO<sup>x</sup> hybrids as efficient catalysts for hydrogen evolution. Adv Mater. 2018;30(28):1705979.
- <span id="page-12-3"></span>50. Chen J, Qian G, Zhang H, et al. PtCo@PtSn heterojunction with high stability/activity for pH‐universal H2 evolution. Adv Funct Mater. 2021;32(5):2107597.
- 51. Wang K, Huang W, Cao Q, et al. Engineering NiF3/Ni2P heterojunction as efficient electrocatalysts for urea oxidation and splitting. Chem Eng J. 2022;427:130865.
- 52. Li P, Zhuang Z, Du C, et al. Insights into the Mo‐doping effect on the electrocatalytic performance of hierarchical CoxMoyS nanosheet arrays for hydrogen generation and urea oxidation. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020;12(36):40194‐40203.
- <span id="page-12-4"></span>53. Yang M, Jiang Y, Qu M, et al. Strong electronic couple engineering of transition metal phosphides‐oxides heterostructures as multifunctional electrocatalyst for hydrogen production. Appl Catal B. 2020;269:118803.
- 54. Wang KX, Wang S, Hui KS, et al. Synergistically boosting the elementary reactions over multiheterogeneous ordered macroporous Mo2C/NC‐Ru for highly efficient alkaline hydrogen evolution. Carbon Energy. 2022;4(5):856‐866.
- <span id="page-12-5"></span>55. Wang H, Xu J, Zhang Q, et al. Super‐hybrid transition metal sulfide nanoarrays of Co3S4 nanosheet/P‐doped WS2 nanosheet/Co9S8 nanoparticle with Pt‐like activities for robust all‐pH hydrogen evolution. Adv Funct Mater. 2022; 32(17):2112362.
- 56. Chen D, Lu R, Yao Y, et al. Duetting electronic structure modulation of ru atoms in RuSe2@NC enables more moderate H\* adsorption and water dissociation for hydrogen evolution reaction. J Mater Chem A. 2022;10(14):7637‐7644.
- 57. Zhang W, Huang B, Wang K, et al. WOx‐surface decorated PtNi@Pt dendritic nanowires as efficient pH‐universal hydrogen evolution electrocatalysts. Adv Energy Mater. 2020;11(3):2003192.
- <span id="page-12-6"></span>58. Wang P, Qin R, Ji P, et al. Synergistic coupling of Ni nanoparticles with Ni3C nanosheets for highly efficient overall water splitting. Small. 2020;16(37):2001642.
- 59. Zhang H, Aierke A, Zhou Y, et al. A high‐performance transition‐metal phosphide electrocatalyst for converting solar energy into hydrogen at 19.6% STH efficiency. Carbon Energy. 2023;5(1):e217.

## SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of this article.

How to cite this article: Qian G, Chen J, Jiang W, Yu T, Tan K, Yin S. Strong electronic coupling of CoNi and N‐doped‐carbon for efficient urea‐ assisted H2 production at a large current density. Carbon Energy. 2023;5:e368. [doi:10.1002/cey2.368](https://doi.org/10.1002/cey2.368)