---
source: Qin 等 - 2023 - Synergistic Engineering of Doping and Vacancy in Ni(OH)2 to Boost Urea Electrooxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 38.266s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:23:19.303746Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

**Synergistic Engineering of Doping and Vacancy in Ni(OH)2 to Boost Urea Electrooxidation**

*Hongye Qin, Yukun Ye, Jinhong Li, Wenqi Jia, Siyu Zheng, Xuejie Cao, Guangliang Lin, and Lifang Jiao\**

**Nickel hydroxide (Ni(OH)2) has been identified as one of the best promising electrocatalyst candidates for urea oxidation reaction (UOR) due to its flexible structures, wide compositions, and abundant 3d electrons under alkaline conditions. However, its layered structure with limited exposed edge sites severely hinders further improvement of the UOR activity. Herein, oxygenvacancy rich and vanadium doped Ni(OH)2 (Ovac-V-Ni(OH)2) catalysts are prepared and synergistically boost the urea electrooxidation. Vanadium doping contributes more exposed active sites, and simultaneously generates oxygen vacancies, switching the rate-determining step of UOR from \*COOH deprotonation to the N–H bond cleavage process and lowering the thermodynamic barrier by around 1.13 eV. The novel Ovac-V-Ni(OH)2 demonstrates good electrocatalytic performances with a working potential of 1.47 V at a high current density of 100 mA cm**<sup>−</sup>**<sup>2</sup> . Synergistic engineering of doping and oxygen vacancy is a promising strategy for designing efficient UOR electrocatalysts.**

# **1. Introduction**

Urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is technologically important for the development of renewable energy-related systems due to the lower thermodynamic potential compared with the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) (0.37 vs 1.23 V).[1] Therefore, replacing thermodynamically unfavorable OER with UOR offers a promising strategy to improve the energy conversion efficiency of electrochemical devices. Moreover, UOR has been widely used in the treatment of urea-rich wastewater simultaneously with energy recovery.[2] Nonetheless, urea electrolysis suffers from sluggish kinetics owing to the 6e− transfer process (CO(NH2)2 + 6OH− – 6e<sup>−</sup> → CO2 + N2 + 5H2O), complicated intermediate species, and multiple gas-desorption steps, which heavily hampers its practical use.[3] Highly active UOR catalysts

H. Qin, Y. Ye, J. Li, W. Jia, S. Zheng, X. Cao, G. Lin, L. Jiao Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education)

Renewable Energy Conversion and Storage Center

College of Chemistry Nankai University Tianjin 300071, China E-mail: jiaolf@nankai.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202209698.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202209698**

are thus urgently needed to improve the effect of intermediate species exchange to drive the sluggish reaction.

Inspired by urease with Ni metal sites efficiently catalyzing urea to NH3 and CO2 in nature,[4] low-cost Ni-based catalysts, such as nickel oxides,[5] nickel alloys,[6] nickel nitrides,[7] nickel sulfides,[8] and nickel hydroxides (Ni(OH)2),[9] are found to be more promising candidates for UOR. Among them, Ni(OH)2 has received more attention due to its structural diversity, rich resource, and well-supplied 3*d* electrons.[10] Ni(OH)2 firstly undergoes oneelectron oxidation to *γ*-NiOOH which is then identified as the active site for UOR. However, the *γ*-NiOOH active sites have a high affinity for the reaction intermediate species, which would impede catalytic reaction.[5a] In addition, the easily exposed low-index surface with limited metal active

sites of *γ*-NiOOH, further stands in the way of UOR electrocatalytic activity.[11] Therefore, the key objective for the design of Nibased UOR catalysts is to (1) increase active sites of *γ*-NiOOH and (2) realize fast intermediate species exchange at the surface of *γ*-NiOOH.

At present, many strategies have been proposed to improve the UOR activity of *γ*-NiOOH, including structure modulation,[12] compositional regulating,[13] and heteroatom doping engineering.[14] Among these, heteroatom doping is the most tunable and scalable method to realize high-efficiency catalytic activity for UOR.[15] In theory, UOR activity is directly determined by the chemisorption energy of intermediate species, which is essentially affected by the *d* orbital of transition metal ions. Regulating *d* electron states can accelerate the reaction kinetics of UOR, which makes it advisable to select vanadium doping in *γ*-NiOOH.[16] In addition, weak oxophilic metal doping usually weakens metal-oxygen bonds and leads to a high concentration of O vacancies,[17] which can regulate the bond strength of metal-adsorbates to realize fast intermediate exchange effects for superior electrocatalytic performance.[18] However, the mechanism of O vacancy formation induced by heteroatom doping needs further clearly investigation, especially at the atomic level. To understand the single roles of O vacancies and heteroatoms, and their synergistic effect on decomposing urea is in urgent need of clarity.

Here, the O-vacancy rich Ni(OH)2 was prepared by a facial vanadium (V) doping method (denoted as Ovac-V-Ni(OH)2).

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

It was found that the surface O vacancy concentration varied with different V content, and the mechanism of O vacancy formation induced by vanadium doping is also revealed through bond analysis. The theoretical calculation combined with the experimental results demonstrates that vanadium doping not only exposes more intrinsic active sites for UOR but also tunes the electronic states of *γ*-NiOOH, weakening the chemisorption energy between intermediate species and the catalyst surfaces. The O vacancies and vanadium doping synergistic shift the rate-determining step (RDS) of UOR from \*COOH deprotonation to the process of cleaving the first N-H bond. Benefiting from the doping-vacancy collaboration, the as-produced Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH catalysts display decreased reaction barriers (from 3.48 to 2.35 eV) and exceptional performance (working potential of 1.47 V at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ) in the electrolyte of 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Morphological and Structural Characterizations**

The one-step hydrothermal method is used to synthesize the Ni(OH)2 materials as shown in **Figure 1**a. The synthesis of vanadium-doped Ni(OH)2 with different vanadium concentrations was the same as that of Ni(OH)2 (denoted as V-doped Ni(OH)2, more details are shown in Supporting Information). Three kinds of V-doped Ni(OH)2 with different vanadium concentration was prepared, namely bare Ni(OH)2, V0.08-doped Ni(OH)2), and V0.12-doped Ni(OH)2. For convenience, the corresponding samples are marked as V0, V1, and V2 respectively. Their stoichiometric proportion is confirmed by using the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), as shown in Supplementary Table S1, Supporting Information. The formation of

**Figure 1.** Synthesis, morphology, and composition of materials. a) Schematic representation of V-doped Ni(OH)2 catalyst synthesis. b) XRD patterns of V0, V1, and V2. SEM images of c) V0 and d) V2. e) STEM image and f–h) the corresponding elemental mappings of O, Ni, and V of V2. i,j)HRTEM images of V2 , and k) the corresponding 3D pseudo-color surface plot of j).

16163928, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aftm. 202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

ADVANCED FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS

the electrocatalysts is evidenced by the X-ray diffraction peaks found at 19.3°, 33.1°, and 38.5° (Figure 1b and Figure S1, Supporting Information), corresponding to the (001), (100), and (101) planes (PDF No.14-0117) of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> respectively. This result demonstrates no phase segregation in Ni(OH)2 occurs after doping vanadium. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of V0 (Figure 1c) and V2 (Figure 1d) clearly reveal the vertical nanosheets, which evenly disperse over the entire nickel foam, while a certain agglomeration and curl are presented on the V-doped Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure S2, Supporting Information), indicating that the excessive introduction of vanadium will destroy the layered structures of Ni(OH)2. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area is studied by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The BET surface area of V2 (271.50  $\text{m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1}$ ) is much higher than that of V0 (229.56 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), which suggests that more V doping on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> leads to a higher surface area of the catalysts. The chemical bonding state of the V0 and V2 was examined via Raman spectroscopy. The peaks located at 315.9 and 451.1 cm<sup>-1</sup> in the spectrum for pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> are attributed to Raman-active vibrations of the  $E_g$  and  $A_{1g}$  modes of  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, respectively (Figure S4, Supporting Information). As V incorporates into the Ni(OH)2 matrix, the Raman spectrum changes dramatically, and the E<sub>\sigma</sub> and  $A_{1g}$  modes of  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> vanish, while two broad peaks emerge near 300 cm<sup>-1</sup>. This phenomenon is also consistent with previous work.[19] Meanwhile, the emerging peak located at 815.6 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be assigned to O-V vibration, which is a clear indicator of the incorporation of V into the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> matrix.<sup>[20]</sup> Figures 1e-h show the EDX elemental mappings of V2, which provides direct-viewing evidence for the uniform distribution of O, Ni, and V elements.

The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images of V0 and V2 catalysts are further conducted to analyze the fine structure. The HRTEM image of V2 indicates the interplanar spacing of 0.459 and 0.233 nm, which can be assigned to the (001) and (101) facets of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1i, j), respectively. Moreover, as shown in Figure 1j, there are more exposed surfaces and point defects (marked as white dashed circles) in V2 than those in V0 (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The comparatively rough V2 surface can be clearly seen via the corresponding 3D pseudo-color surface plot (Figure S6, Supporting Information), which suggests that the lattice is disconnected by relatively random defects. The above results show that vanadium was successfully introduced into Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> along with many defects, which would increase the specific surface area and active sites.

Furthermore, fine structure characterization was employed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to study the electron interaction between V and Ni atoms at the surface of the asprepared V-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> /Ni foam catalysts. The existence of Ni, O, and V elements in the V-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> /Ni foam nanosheets is verified by the XPS survey spectrum in **Figure 2**. As illustrated in Figure 2a, the Ni 2p core level spectra of V0, V1, and V2 all contain one pair of spin-orbit doublets, Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{1/2}$ , which belong to the characteristic of Ni<sup>2+</sup> and their corresponding two shakeup satellite peaks. [21] The two fitted peaks of Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{1/2}$  of V2 located at 855.65 eV and 873.35 eV, are smaller than the two fitted peaks of V0 located at 855.82 and 873.52 eV. This result implies that Ni atoms can adsorb more electrons from V atoms due to their greater electronegativity. Moreover,

the Ni<sup>3+</sup> signal strengthens as the vanadium content increases, indicating vanadium doping promotes the formation of Ni<sup>3+</sup>, which is consistent with previous work.<sup>[22]</sup> V 2p XPS spectrum is exhibited in Figure 2b, the deconvolution of the V 2p profile manifests two sets of peaks  $(2p_{3/2} \text{ and } 2p_{1/2})$ , and three peaks located at 516.55, 517.37, and 518.77 eV can be ascribed to  $V^{3+}$ ,  $V^{4+}$ , and  $V^{5+}$ , respectively.[16,23] It is worth noting that the V 2p peaks of V2 (517.37 eV) are shifted prominently relative to the corresponding peaks of V1 (516.98 eV), which may be due to the reduced Ni/V ratio weakens the attraction of nickel to V electrons causing the delocalization of electrons around the V atoms. From the O 1s spectrum (Figure 2c and Figure S7, Supporting Information), three peaks located at 530.10, 531.40, and 533.01 eV are assigned to metal-hydroxide bonds, O atoms in the vicinity of an O vacancy and surface adsorbed water, respectively.[24] Moreover, the increased ratio of O vacancies with V doping also confirms that V doping causes more O vacancies at the basal plane of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Table S2, Supporting Information).

The electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy (EPR) (Figure 2d) was carried out at room temperature to detect the chemical environment of unpaired electrons. The sharpened EPR signal indicates that the unpaired electrons and defects are increasing with vanadium doping.<sup>[25]</sup> Moreover, the asymmetric EPR peak area also implies the introduction of V atoms changes the atomic distance and bonding strain of Ni-O. The change in the electronic/magnetic structure can subsequently occur via various types of interaction with neighboring O and transition metal ions, which can affect the dynamic covalent bond strength of Ni-O or V-O in V-Ni(OH)2. Why does vanadium doping increase O vacancy defects? We further investigate the nature of Ni-O bonds in Ni(OH)2 and V-O bonds in V-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The enlarged (V-O) bond length (2.148 Å) compared with Ni-O (2.079 Å) signifies that the overlap between the p orbital of O atoms and the d orbital of V is weakened (Figures S9 and S10, Supporting Information), which can promote the dissolution of V atoms and the formation of oxygen vacancies consequently. To go beyond qualitative reasoning, the orbitals' phases must be included; therefore, crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) analysis (Figure 2e,f) was performed. [26] The projected COHP (pCOHP) of the Ni-O bonds in Ni(OH)2 and the V-O bonds in V-Ni(OH), demonstrates that the energy gap between the Fermi level and V-O antibonding state decreases, which means electrons near the Fermi level have a higher probability of filling into antibonding orbitals and weaken the O-V bonds consequently. The strength of the V-O and Ni-O bond quantified by the integrated COHP (ICOHP) values also confirms the instability of V-O bonds in the V-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> structure; specifically, the more positive ICOHP V-O is, the weaker V-O bond becomes. Based on the above results, vanadium atoms have been successfully doped in the basal plane of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> coupling with O vacancies. Moreover, the mechanism of O vacancy formation is due to the weakening of the O–V bond.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical Oxidation of Urea Over Catalyst

To evaluate the effect of V atoms and O vacancies on the catalytic activity of UOR, we conducted the electrochemical

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** High-resolution XPS spectra of a) Ni 2p of V0, V1, and V2; b) V 2p of V1 and V2; c) O 1s of V1 and V2; d) EPR spectra of V0 and V2 at room temperature. DOS and pCOHPs of the shortest M–O bond in the catalyst for e) Ni(OH)2, f) V-Ni(OH)2.

measurements of Ni(OH)2 and V-Ni(OH)2 catalysts in 1.0 M KOH with 0.33 M urea solution. In **Figure 3**a, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curve without iR correction exhibits that the overpotential of V2 reaches 1.47 V versus RHE (Reversible Hydrogen Electrode) at a current density of 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which is much lower than that of V0 (1. 60 V vs. RHE), indicating that the V doping can promote the catalytic performance efficiently. The superior reaction kinetics of V2 for UOR is also elucidated by a much lower Tafel slope of 29.12mVdec−<sup>1</sup> than those of V0 (47.09mVdec−<sup>1</sup> ) and V1 (43.87 mVdec−<sup>1</sup> ) (Figure 3b). Furthermore, the influence of V dopants on the interfacial charge transfer kinetics in the UOR process is revealed by the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy in Figure 3c. An equivalent circuit model (shown in the inset of Figure 3c) was employed to fit the kinetic parameters of the catalysts in the UOR. The first resistance Rct1 and constant phase element CPE1 in parallel are related to the conversion from Ni(OH)2 to NiOOH. The smaller Rct1 after the introduction of V is attributed to an accelerated Ni2+/Ni3<sup>+</sup> reaction rate at the electrode/electrolyte boundary, which involves the indirect (catalyst reconstruction mechanism) oxidation process (Figure S11, Supporting Information).[27] The V1 and V2 electrodes exhibit lower *R*ct1 (0.69 and 0.51 Ω) than the V0 electrode (0.73 Ω) owing to their decreased bandgap and enhanced intrinsic conductivity for boosting the Ni2+/Ni3<sup>+</sup> redox reaction (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The second semicircle at a low frequency corresponds to a parallel connection of the faradic impedance (*R*ct2) and a constant phase element (CPE2), which is related to the charge transfer during direct urea electro-oxidation reaction. The V2 electrode also shows lower Rct2 (2.60 Ω) than the V0 electrode (4.78 Ω), suggesting its better kinetics for direct UOR (Table S3, Supporting Information). Thus, a pronounced catalytic ability of the V2 electrode arises from the intercalation of V, which decreases the bandgap of Ni(OH)2 to accelerate electrons mobility and increases active sites to facilitate both the direct and indirect UOR process.[28] Moreover, the Bode plot obtained by plotting log (-frequency)

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibtrary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209998 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 3. a) LSV curves of V0, V1, and V2 in 1 M KOH electrolyte with 0.33 M urea. b) The Tafel slopes for the V0, V1 and V2. c) Nyquist plots of the V0, V1, and V2 at the potential of 1.40 V versus RHE. The illustration is an equivalent circuit model containing an electrolyte resistor ( $R_s$ ) in series with two charge transfer resistances  $R_{ct}$  which are severally in parallel with the constant phase element (CPE). d)  $C_{dl}$  values of V0, V1, and V2. e) i-t curve of V2 recorded in 110 h at 1.37 V versus RHE. f) Comparison of polarization curves for the two-electrode configuration for urea electrolysis and water electrolysis.

versus phase angle gives details about the number of processes that occur during the electrochemical reaction. The higher frequency relaxation process (10<sup>1.9</sup>–10<sup>2.5</sup> Hz), as seen in the Bode plot (Figure S13, Supporting Information), belongs to the Ni<sup>2+</sup>/ Ni<sup>3+</sup> redox process and is related to an indirect UOR. When the voltage reaches 1.4 V, the peak located at high frequency disappears, which indicates that surface Ni<sup>2+</sup> is reconstructed to high-valence nickel species. The low frequency (10<sup>0</sup> Hz-10<sup>1</sup> Hz) region of the bode plot is generally considered to nonhomogeneous charge distribution, [29] namely the formation of intermediate species on the electrode surface. An apparent peak is found in the low-frequency region at the potential of 1.40 V for V0 and V2 in the urea electrolyte, which consistently shows a lower onset potential compared with that in the KOH electrolyte. The peak frequency significantly shifts toward a higher frequency region (≈10 Hz) when the voltage increases to 1.4 V and the phase angle apparently decreases with the presence of V dopant in the lattice (Figure S13, Supporting Information). This demonstrates that V doping promotes the dissociation kinetics of urea and the electro-oxidation of the intermediate. In addition, electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) measurements have been further carried out to research the active

surface areas of as-prepared electrode materials. It is obvious from Figure 3d and Figure S14, Supporting Information that V2 manifests  $C_{\rm dl}$  with a much higher value of 5.65 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> than those of V0 (3.45 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and V1 (3.86 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), which is in agreement with the previous speculation that doping V provides more active sites for the catalytic reaction.

The electrochemical stability of the electrocatalysts is evaluated via amperometric *i-t* curve test. In Figure 3e, V-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is found to have superior catalytic stability at a fixed potential of 1.37 V (vs RHE) over 110 h. Meanwhile, the excellent electrochemical performance of UOR on V2 compared with OER makes it require less energy to drive the UOR in the electrolyzer (Figure S15, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, The V2 also shows superior UOR activities compared with other nickel-based catalysts (Table S4, Supporting Information). Toward more practical applications, we incorporated the KOHcontaining electrolyte into a two-electrode (the cathode is a platinum electrode) undivided cell for urea and water electrolysis. The LSV curve of V2 is clearly exhibited when the current density of the urea electrolysis system reaches 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, and the cell voltage is only 1.50 V, which is far less than 1.67 V required by the conventional water electrolysis system (Figure 3f).

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

#### **2.3. Active Phase and Postreaction Characterizations of Catalysts**

To better gain insight into the surface evolution process of the catalysts and determine the real active species, more indepth structure, chemical identity, and valence information of catalysts were revealed through postmortem HRTEM, in situ Raman, and XPS measurements. The morphology of V2 remains unchanged after the CV activation process (Figure S16). The lattice distance of 0.270 nm is distributed to the (100) plane of Ni(OH)2 (Figure S16c, Supporting Information). The corresponding HRTEM image shows an amorphous layer (≈2 nm) at the edge sites, which demonstrates that the part of the surface is electrochemically restructured to an amorphous phase. Moreover, in situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy was performed to obtain specific information on the amorphous phase and have an in-depth insight into the reconstruction process of V0 and V2 under UOR conditions (Figure S17, Supporting Information). **Figure 4**a shows insitu Raman spectra of V0 and V2, which are recorded from the open circuit potential to 1.6 V (vs. RHE). At 1.4 V and above, two strong Raman bands at around 475.0 (*δ*-Ni-O) and 553.6 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (*ν*-Ni-O) are observed corresponding to the Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O bending and stretching vibrations of NiOOH, respectively.[30] Their appearance indicates the presence of NiOOH at these potentials, which is consistent with previous Bode plot results. Compared to V0, the vibration peaks of Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O in V2 (476.1 and 555.8 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) show blue shifts and increase in full width at half maximum (FWHM) (Figure 4b and Figure S18, Supporting Information), which originates from the structural disorder and decreased crystallinity induced by V doping. We compared directly the representative Raman spectra of V0 and V2 at 1.6 V (Figure 4c). The feature of broad peaks of the V2 near 810 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> could be assigned to the symmetric-stretching vibrational modes of the V–O bond.[19] Moreover, The FWHM of V–O vibration was significantly higher than that in the air, which is indicative of the higher structural disorder of the O–V bond that may be caused by intermediate species reacting at V active sites. Generally, *γ*-NiOOH exhibits a higher peak intensity ratio of *δ*(Ni-O) to *ν*(Ni-O) (denoted as I*δ*/*ν*) compared with *β*-NiOOH, due to its looser structure.[31] It is worth noting that the value of I*δ*/*ν* for the V0 catalyst is as high as 2.0–2.3 over the potential of 1.5 V during the reconstruction process, suggesting the formation of *γ*-NiOOH with Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> (Figure 4d).[32] Meanwhile, the value of I*δ*/*ν* for the V2 catalyst shows as high as 3.0–3.7 between the potential of 1.40–1.55 V and slightly reduces with the increase of applied potential (at 1.60 V) originating from the structural defects and lattice disorder owing to V incorporating.[33]

Furthermore, XPS analysis of the post-OER samples was performed to study the chemical state of reconstructed surface species, as presented in Figures S19–S21, Supporting Information. For the Ni *2p3/2* spectrum, the characteristic peak of the Ni-O bond of the post-UOR sample slightly shifts to lower binding energy relative to the initial one, indicating the formation of a lower oxidation state of Ni (Figure S19, Supporting Information). These observations can be ascribed to the destruction of the *γ*-NiOOH and the Ni atom will be directly connected with the O atom, which will increase local electron density and thus result in the lower binding energy of Ni 2*p* in the form of Ni(OH)2. [34] For the V 3*d* spectrum (Figure S20, Supporting Information), after the UOR test, the ratio of V5<sup>+</sup> increases, which indicates that partial low valence V in Ni(OH)2 is oxidized to V5<sup>+</sup> under the UOR process (Table S5, Supporting Information). Moreover, the presence of surface oxygen species is also confirmed in the O 1*s* XPS spectrum (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Compared with V0, the oxygen vacancy contribution (O2 peak) obviously increases after UOR of V2, confirming the presence of V also promotes the formation of oxygen vacancies in *γ*-NiOOH (Table S6, Supporting Information). Therefore, the dynamically generated *γ*-NiOOH species play a decisive role in UOR activity and can be considered a real active phase in this system. Furthermore, the V doping also causes oxygen vacancy and lattice disorder in *γ*-NiOOH, which can optimize the geometry and electronic structure of *γ*-NiOOH.

**Figure 4.** In situ Raman spectra of a) V0 and b) V2 were recorded from open circuit potential (OCP) to 1.6 V versus RHE in 1.0 M KOH with 0.33 M urea solution. c) Raman spectra of V0 and V2 at 1.60 V versus RHE in 1 M KOH and 0.33 M urea solution. d) Intensity ratio (I*δ*/*ν*) of V0 and V2 at potential 1.40–1.60 V with an interval of 0.5 V.

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

#### **2.4. DFT Analysis**

Density functional theory (DFT) was performed to unveil the separate role of O vacancies and V atoms, and their synergistic effect on decomposing urea in catalysts. We study *γ*-NiOOH reactivity by considering low-index surfaces (100) due to exposed step edges,[35] as well as Ni atoms not fully coordinated. Therefore, many more active sites are provided for urea adsorption. For the V doped *γ*-NiOOH (V-*γ*-NiOOH), O-vacancies and V co-modified *γ*-NiOOH (Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH) model, we replaced the high-valence nickle sites on the surface with vanadium atoms and created adjacent oxygen defects (Figure S22, Supporting Information).[35b] Moreover, O vacancies are also more prone to form at V-*γ*-NiOOH than at *γ*-NiOOH owning to weak oxygen adsorption energy (2.94 eV vs 2.03 eV) at the surface (Figure S23, Supporting Information).

The introduction of O vacancies also causes changes in the crystal structure of the active phase.[36] More specifically, the introduction of O vacancies inevitably gives rise to the transformation of the surrounding crystal structure from VO5 square pyramidal to VO4 tetrahedral (the corresponding structures are plotted in **Figure 5**a and Figure S22, Supporting Information), which enriches the d orbital orientation of the active sites and tunes the d electron distribution at the partial d orbital. Notably, from Figure S24, Supporting Information, O vacancies also cause more electronic states to be localized near the Fermi level compared with V-*γ*-NiOOH, which is also consistent with Bader charge analysis that O vacancies induce electrons to localize at V (Table S7, Supporting Information). Based on the above results, oxygen vacancies change the redistribution of electrons in the d orbital and in turn affect the thermodynamics and kinetics of the reaction of different intermediate species on the surface.

**Figure 5.** a) The cartoon schematic structure configuration of VO5 and VO4 and corresponding effects on adsorbates. The Gibbs free energy (ΔG) profiles of the proposed UOR pathway at b) *γ*-NiOOH, and c) Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH.

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

To understand the intrinsic reactivity of the electrochemical oxidation reaction of urea at the catalyst surface, urea dissociation is proposed to consist of four steps, namely urea adsorption, dehydrogenation, N-N coupling, and CO2 desorption (Figure 5b,c).[37] The initial adsorption configuration of urea is systematically studied and found out that the carbonyl group in urea can be more easily adsorbed at metal sites (Figure S25, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, V doping and O vacancies also promote the adsorption of urea.

For the direct dehydrogenation pathway of *γ*-NiOOH (Figure 5b), the adsorbed urea molecule is first oxidized and dehydrogenated to form \*NHCONH2 via proton-coupled electron transfer with a 2.11 eV thermodynamic barrier. The \*NHCONH2 can be further oxidized into \*NHCONH, \*CONN, and \*CO through oxidative dehydrogenation. Moreover, the \*COOH dehydrogenation reaction ([M·COOH]ads + OH<sup>−</sup> → [M·CO2]ads + H2O + e<sup>−</sup>) is the thermodynamically limiting step for *γ*-NiOOH with a huge thermodynamic barrier (3.48 eV), which is biased from the previous work.[37] It may be owning to the introduction of an explicit solvent molecules and ions in this work. At this point, the urea molecule has been completely deprotonated by the OH<sup>−</sup> ion and released CO2 consequently. In conclusion, *γ*-NiOOH exhibits low UOR activities originating from the huge thermodynamic barriers. The effect of V on urea catalytic thermodynamics in the *γ*-NiOOH is also revealed. The thermodynamic barrier of \*COOH dehydrogenation reaction is decreased from 3.48 to 3.14 eV due to the introduction of V (Figure S26, Supporting Information).

Next, the UOR dehydrogenation path also reveals at the surface of Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH (Figure 5c). Strikingly, the energy profile indicates that the rate-determining step along the pathway of UOR at Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH is the desorption of the first pair of hydrogen atoms (2.35 eV), which demonstrates that the first hydrogen binds the amino so strongly that the desorption of hydrogen to form \*CONH2NH is difficult to achieve. While, perhaps due to the C*2v* symmetry of urea being broken, the subsequent dehydrogenation reactions are endothermic. Moreover, in this work, we do not expect geometric constraints to severely inhibit H from coupling with *γ*-NiOOH. Instead of further \*CO reaction with adsorbed \*OH to a presumably active \*COOH species, we find that the Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH surface is likely to attract one \*H from \*COOH to produce state \*CO2 with 0.33 ML surface oxygen atom hydroxidation, which indicates that surface non-hydroxylation oxygen atoms are also involved in the dissociation of \*COOH to generate CO2 directly (Figure S27, Supporting Information). Moreover, when the surface is coordinated with 1/3 OH coverage, the elementary reaction ([M·CO]ads + OH<sup>−</sup> → [M·COOH]ads + e-) at Ovac-V -*γ*-NiOOH surface is exothermic (Figure S28, Supporting Information). This phenomenon indicates that OH− coverage at the catalyst surface promotes the \*CO to couple with OH− and convert to \*COOH intermediate which is also consistent with previous work.[38]

As mentioned above, it can be concluded that the reactivity of V-Ni(OH)2 catalysts for UOR is influenced by three factors. One is that the suitable vanadium site promotes urea chemisorption and decreases the RDS barriers due to flexible d empty orbital. The other is the O vacancies induced by V doping, which can cooperate with V to shift RDS from [M·COOH]ads + OH<sup>−</sup> → [M·CO2]ads + H2O + e− to the step that first oxidized dehydrogenation forms \*NHCONH2. Lastly, the doping of vanadium atoms also promotes surface hydroxylation, which significantly reduces the [M·COOH]ads + OH<sup>−</sup> → [M·CO2]ads + H2O + e<sup>−</sup> thermodynamic barrier.

## **3. Conclusions**

In summary, the Ovac-V-Ni(OH)2 electrocatalyst with high activity for the UOR was prepared in a facial and readily scalable way. It exhibits an extraordinarily low voltage to drive the UOR in the electrolyzer compared to the Ni(OH)2 counterparts. Notably, the essentials of bond dissociation and O vacancy formation of multivalent cations catalysts are also systematically revealed by experiment and bonding analysis. DFT results reveal that the highly enhanced electrochemical performance originates from the changing of geometry and electronic structure due to vanadium and O-vacancy double-active sites in the active phase (Ovac-V-*γ*-NiOOH). Specifically, the flexible vanadium d empty orbital much more easily captures lone pair electrons of urea and tunes the distribution of electronic states inside urea. The O vacancies cooperate with V atoms shift the selectivity of intermediate species through geometry structure modulation. This work indicates that the dual center engineering of the heteroatom doping and vacancies bridges the gap between selectivity design and catalyst surface science, which can be extended to other heterostructure catalysts for energy conversion.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52025013, 22121005), the Haihe Laboratory of Sustainable Chemical Transformations, the 111 Project (B12015), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. Additionally, the authors appreciate Biao Zhang from Xiamen University and Licheng Miao from Nankai University for their contribution to the graphic design and discussion.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

heteroatom dopants, nickel hydroxides, oxygen vacancies, synergistic engineering, urea electrooxidations

> Received: August 21, 2022 Revised: October 15, 2022

Published online: November 16, 2022

16163028, 2023, 4, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202209698 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [2] a) C. Pei, S. Chen, T. Zhao, M. Li, Z. Cui, B. Sun, S. Hu, S. Lan, H. Hahn, T. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200850; b) Z. Li, W. Wang, Q. Qian, Y. Zhu, Y. Feng, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, M. Cheng, G. Zhang, *eScience* **2022**, *2*, 416.
- [3] a) C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000556; b) T. Wang, X. Cao, L. Jiao, *eScience* **2021**, *1*, 69.
- [4] a) C. Lv, L. Zhong, H. Liu, Z. Fang, C. Yan, M. Chen, Y. Kong, C. Lee, D. Liu, S. Li, J. Liu, L. Song, G. Chen, Q. Yan, G. Yu, *Nat. Sustain.* **2021**, *4*, 868; b) J. J. Sigurdarson, S. Svane, H. Karring, *Rev. Environ. Sci. Bio/Technol.* **2018**, *17*, 241.
- [5] a) L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2021**, *60*, 10577; b) X. Cao, T. Wang, H. Qin, G. Lin, L. Zhao, L. Jiao, *Nano Res.* **2022**, [https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4635-5;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4635-5) c) Z. Dong, F. Lin, Y. Yao, L. Jiao, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1902703.
- [6] J. Yoon, D. Lee, Y. N. Lee, Y. S. Yoon, D.-J. Kim, *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *431*, 259.
- [7] S. Hu, C. Feng, S. Wang, J. Liu, H. Wu, L. Zhang, J. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 13168.
- [8] a) X. Zhuo, W. Jiang, G. Qian, J. Chen, T. Yu, L. Luo, L. Lu, Y. Chen, S. Yin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 35709; b) S. Feng, J. Luo, J. Li, Y. Yu, Z. Kang, W. Huang, Q. Chen, P. Deng, Y. Shen, X. Tian, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2022**, *23*, 100646; c) C. Huang, L. Yu, W. Zhang, Q. Xiao, J. Zhou, Y. Zhang, P. An, J. Zhang, Y. Yu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *276*, 119137.
- [9] C. Lin, Z. Gao, F. Zhang, J. Yang, B. Liu, J. Jin, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 13867.
- [10] J. Yan, L. Kong, Y. Ji, J. White, Y. Li, J. Zhang, P. An, S. Liu, S. T. Lee, T. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2149.
- [11] A. Govind Rajan, J. M. P. Martirez, E. A. Carter, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 3600.
- [12] S. Chakrabarty, I. Offen-Polak, T. Y. Burshtein, E. M. Farber, L. Kornblum, D. Eisenberg, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2021**, *25*, 159.
- [13] J. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, G. Rao, C. Wu, Y. Hu, X. Wang, R. Lu, Y. Li, J. Xiong, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 17458.
- [14] C. B. Sun, M. W. Guo, S. S. Siwal, Q. B. Zhang, *J. Catal.* **2020**, *381*, 454.
- [15] Q. Cao, Y. Yuan, K. Wang, W. Huang, Y. Zhao, X. Sun, R. Ding, W. Lin, E. Liu, P. Gao, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *618*, 411.
- [16] Z. Ji, Y. Song, S. Zhao, Y. Li, J. Liu, W. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 569.
- [17] a) Y. Li, X. Zhang, Z. Zheng, *CCS Chem.* **2021**, *4*, 31; b) H. Xue, A. Meng, T. Yang, Z. Li, C. Chen, *J Energy Chem* **2022**, *71*, 639.
- [18] a) Y. Tong, P. Chen, M. Zhang, T. Zhou, L. Zhang, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 1; b) X. Chen, M. Yu, Z. Yan, W. Guo, G. Fan, Y. Ni, J. Liu, W. Zhang, W. Xie, F. Cheng, J. Chen, *CCS Chem.* **2020**, *3*, 675; c) H. Yang, Y. Liu, X. Liu, X. Wang, H. Tian,

- G. I. N. Waterhouse, P. E. Kruger, S. G. Telfer, S. Ma, *eScience* **2022**, *2*, 227.
- [19] H. S. Chavan, C. H. Lee, A. I. Inamdar, J. Han, S. Park, S. Cho, N. K. Shreshta, S. U. Lee, B. Hou, H. Im, H. Kim, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 3821.
- [20] D. Wang, Q. Li, C. Han, Q. Lu, Z. Xing, X. Yang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 3899.
- [21] X. Zhou, Z. Xia, Z. Zhang, Y. Ma, Y. Qu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 11799.
- [22] R. R. Rao, S. Corby, A. Bucci, M. García-Tecedor, C. A. Mesa, J. Rossmeisl, S. Giménez, J. Lloret-Fillol, I. E. L. Stephens, J. R. Durrant, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7622.
- [23] a) J. Jiang, F. Sun, S. Zhou, W. Hu, H. Zhang, J. Dong, Z. Jiang, J. Zhao, J. Li, W. Yan, M. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2885; b) P. Li, X. Duan, Y. Kuang, Y. Li, G. Zhang, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1703341.
- [24] H. Idriss, *Surf. Sci.* **2021**, *712*, 121894.
- [25] C. Drouilly, J.-M. Krafft, F. Averseng, S. Casale, D. Bazer-Bachi, C. Chizallet, V. Lecocq, H. Vezin, H. Lauron-Pernot, G. Costentin, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2012**, *116*, 21297.
- [26] a) V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J Phys Chem A* **2011**, *115*, 5461; b) S. Maintz, V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2013**, *34*, 2557.
- [27] Y. Li, H. Jiang, Z. Cui, S. Zhu, Z. Li, S. Wu, L. Ma, X. Han, Y. Liang, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2021**, *125*, 9190.
- [28] H. Qin, B. Zhang, Y. Pan, X. Wang, L. Diao, J. Chen, J. Wu, E. Liu, J. Sha, L. Ma, N. Zhao, *J. Catal.* **2020**, *381*, 493.
- [29] a) Y. Lu, T. Liu, C.-L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185; b) X. Zhao, Y. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 5773.
- [30] L. Bai, S. Lee, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3095.
- [31] S. Lee, L. Bai, X. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8072.
- [32] C. Huang, Q. Zhou, D. Duan, L. Yu, W. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Liu, B. Peng, P. An, J. Zhang, L. Li, J. Yu, Y. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, [https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE01478E.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE01478E)
- [33] M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329.
- [34] Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, L. Yu, G. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1901139.
- [35] a) D. Friebel, M. W. Louie, M. Bajdich, K. E. Sanwald, Y. Cai, A. M. Wise, M.-J. Cheng, D. Sokaras, T.-C. Weng, R. Alonso-Mori, R. C. Davis, J. R. Bargar, J. K. Nørskov, A. Nilsson, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 1305; b) H. Xiao, H. Shin, W. A. Goddard3rd, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2018**, *115*, 5872.
- [36] K. Zhu, F. Shi, X. Zhu, W. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *73*, 104761.
- [37] L. Zhang, L. Wang, H. Lin, Y. Liu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, A. Chen, L. Wang, F. Ni, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, Y. Li, B. Zhang, H. Peng, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2019**, *58*, 16820.
- [38] a) J. Li, J. Li, T. Liu, L. Chen, Y. Li, H. Wang, X. Chen, M. Gong, Z.-P. Liu, X. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26656; b) C. F. Dickens, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2017**, *121*, 18516.