---
source: Reddy 等 - 2022 - One-pot hydrothermal synthesis of Co–Ni hexacyanoferrate nanocuboids on Ni-foam as efficient catalys.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 80.266s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:24:39.572983Z
---

### **PAPER • OPEN ACCESS**

One-pot hydrothermal synthesis of Co–Ni hexacyanoferrate nanocuboids on Ni-foam as efficient catalysts for oxygen evolution and urea oxidation reactions

To cite this article: Bommireddy Purusottam Reddy et al 2022 Mater. Res. Express 9 066302

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1088/2053-1591/ac72ff) for updates and enhancements.

### You may also like

- [Enhanced hydrogen production via urea](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6528/ad0243) [electrolysis over Ni-NiO electrodeposited](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6528/ad0243) [on Ti mesh](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6528/ad0243) -
- Yajing Wang, Minjie Zhu, Taiping Xie et al.
- [Research on Urea Oxidation Coupled with](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ad2e7e) [Electrolysis of Water to Produce Hydrogen](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ad2e7e) [Based on \(NiFe\)](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ad2e7e)<sup>2</sup> [P Catalyst](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ad2e7e) Xiaohong Xia, Jiajie Liu, Yuchao Wen et al. -
- [Heterojunction catalysts for urea oxidation](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2752-5724/add60e) [reaction](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2752-5724/add60e) -

Yashu Guo, Zhijie Chen, Yinghui Lin et al.

# Materials Research Express

#### **OPEN ACCESS**

#### RECEIVED

15 April 2022

22 May 2022

### ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION

24 May 2022

#### PUBLISHED

10 June 2022

Original content from this work may be used under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0

Any further distribution of this work must maintain attribution to the author(s) and the title of the work, journal citation and DOI

### **PAPER**

# One-pot hydrothermal synthesis of Co-Ni hexacyanoferrate nanocuboids on Ni-foam as efficient catalysts for oxygen evolution and urea oxidation reactions

Bommireddy Purusottam Reddy\* , Youngsuk Suh and Si-Hyun Park\*

Department of Electronic Engineering, Yeungnam University, 280 Daehak-ro, Gyeongsan-si, Gyeongsanbuk-do, Republic of Korea Authors to whom any correspondence should be addressed.

E-mail: purusottam.svu@gmail.com and sihyun park@ynu.ac.kr

Keywords: prussian blue analog, oxygen evolution reaction, urea oxidation reaction

#### **Abstract**

Recently, considerable research has been conducted on Prussian blue analogues (PBAs), a type of metal-organic framework (MOF) material, as novel electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reactions (OERs) and urea oxidation reactions (UORs). In the present work, considering Co-Ni hexacyanoferrate (Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF) as a PBA, Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF nanocuboids with different Co and Ni compositions were synthesized on Ni foam (NF) by hydrothermal synthesis. Further, their application toward OER and UOR catalytic activity was studied. The synthesized Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composites with high catalytic activity and conductivity exhibited superior catalytic performance for the OERs and UORs. The  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes exhibited a lower overpotential ( $\eta$ ) of 334 mV with a lower Tafel slope of 72 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for the OER catalytic activity and a lower potential of 1.38 V with a lower Tafel slope of 50 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for the UOR catalytic activity. It was observed that low charge transfer resistance, high electrochemically active surface area, and availability of Co<sup>3+</sup> ions are major factors contributing to the OER activity. The presence of oxidative Ni<sup>2+</sup> species contributed significantly to the UOR activity. Overall, the present study elucidates the binder-free  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  electrodes as stable and high-performance OER and UOR catalysts and provides pathways for designing advanced PBA catalysts.

### 1. Introduction

Hydrogen energy, which is clean, non-toxic, and extremely proficient, is considered as one of the most promising alternative to conventional and unsustainable resources such as fossil fuels. Over the past few decades, significant attention has been given to the development of key technologies focusing on the economical and efficient production of hydrogen fuel. Among the various technologies, the production of hydrogen from the electrolysis of water is considered as an effective approach owing to its simplicity, affordability, and high conversion efficiency. Oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the half-cell reaction at the anode during the electrolysis of water is considered as a rate-determining step. It is largely limited by its slow kinetics and requirement of high voltages and catalysts to promote the reaction [1, 2]. The OER can be promoted by replacing the anodic oxidation reaction with other oxidation reactions, such as the oxidation of urea, methanol, and ethanol, which require less potential than the OER [3–8]. The electrolysis of urea offers much easier access to hydrogen owing to its lower overpotential (0.37 V) compared to the electrolysis of water (1.23 V) and high gravimetric concentration (6.71%) of hydrogen.

During the electrolysis of urea, hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) occurs at cathode (at -0.46 V versus SHE) whereas electro oxidation of urea (UOR) occurs at anode (at -0.83 V versus SHE). However, the overall performance of urea electrolysis depends mainly on the UOR, which is limited by the six-electron transfer reaction. Therefore, it is desirable to develop efficient UOR catalysts to minimize the activation energy of the entire reaction. In the context of H<sub>2</sub> production, exploring the OER catalytic activity along with the UOR activity of the catalyst is important to save cost and increase its application. Primarily, catalysts based on rare metals such as platinum, ruthenium, or iridium are widely used for the UOR and OER; however, the cost and availability of these materials hinder their widespread application [[9](#page-8-0)–[14](#page-8-0)]. In this context, the development of highly efficient, affordable, and abundant catalysts for OER and UOR is in high demand. Recently, even though considerable efforts has been focused on metal oxides[[15](#page-8-0)–[18](#page-8-0)], chalcogenides[[19](#page-8-0), [20](#page-8-0)], nitrides[[21](#page-8-0)–[23](#page-8-0)] and phosphides [[24,](#page-8-0) [25](#page-8-0)], more research interest has also been focused on Prussian blue analogues(PBAs), a type of metal organic framework (MOF) material, as a novel class of electrocatalysts for OER and UOR [[26](#page-8-0)–[32](#page-8-0)].

In general, PBAs can be described by the generic formula A P R CN .nH O, x y 6z 2 [ ( )] where A represents an alkali metal and P and R represent transition metal ions. In the PBA crystal system, the N-coordinated high-spin P cations and C-coordinated low-spin R cations are interlinked with C≡N bridges, forming an open face-centered cubic structure that provides distinctive advantages such as high porosity, large specific surface area, and tunable metal active sites, which are beneficial for various applications, such as catalysis, energy storage, and sensors [[33](#page-8-0)–[37](#page-8-0)]. Currently, among the wide selection of PBA family, the metal hexacyanoferrates(HCFs), in which lowspin R cations are replaced with Fe and high-spin cations are replaced with transition metal ions(mostly Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn), are of interest owing to their chemical stability over a wide pH range, tunable physicochemical properties, and catalytic activities, which are comparable to those of metal oxides[[31,](#page-8-0) [38](#page-8-0)]. Despite these technical advantages, metal HCFs still suffer from low current densities and mechanical resistance owing to their conductivity and poor interfacial bonding with the electrode surfaces; subsequently, limiting their application. Therefore, it is important to synthesize in situ integrated metal HCFs on highly conductive 3D porous substrates such as Ni foam (NF) to provide efficient electron and mass transfer pathways to boost catalytic activity. The rapid coprecipitation method, a largely employed method for the synthesis of metal HCFs, constantly results in inconsitent morphology and size, owing to the extremely low solubility of HCF complexes. Moreover, coating the metal HCF powders on the substrates using binders results in high contact resistance and removal of the active material during gas evolution. Application of hydrothermal/solvothermal process during the synthesis of metal HCF results in the in situ growth of binder-free electrodes and provides a better control of morphology and phase purity.

In view of the above considerations, CoxNi1−xHCF nanocuboids with different Co and Ni composition was synthesized on NF, by hydrothermal synthesis, and their application toward OER and UOR catalytic activity was studied. Combining the advantages of high catalytic activity inherited from CoxNi1−xHCF and high conductivity inherited from NF, the binder-free CoxNi1−xHCF:NF electrodes could provide a high catalytic activity and stability for OERs and UORs. The CoxNi1−xHCF:NF composite electrodes exhibited a low OER overpotential (η) of 334 mV and UOR potential of 1.38 V at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . This work describes the potential use of binder-free CoxNi1−xHCF:NF composite electrodes as OER and UOR catalysts, which can be used as a template to design new PBAs for developing advanced catalysts.

### 2. Materials and methods

In the present study, analytical grade chemicals were used without any modification.

To prepare CoHCF, initially, a 50 ml of a freshly prepared aqueous solution containing 0.01 M of K3Fe(CN)<sup>6</sup> and 0.1 M of(CH2COONa)2.2H2O was slowly added to the 50 ml of an aqueous solution containing 0.02 M of Co(NO3)2.6H2O and 150 mg of Polyvinylpyrrolidone. After vigorous stirring for 10 min, the precursor solution was transferred to a 150 ml Teflon- lined autoclave. A well-cleaned NF substrate was placed vertically inside the solution, and the autoclave was sealed and maintained at 160 °C for 12 h. The NF composite and final product were then collected from the mother liquid. After repeated washing in water and ethanol, the NF composite and final product were dried in an oven at 80 °C for 24 h. Finally, the NF composite was collected and labelled as CoHCF:NF. A similar procedure was employed for the synthesis of NiHCF:NF and CoxNi1−xHCF:NF composites by replacing (or adding)Co(NO3)2.6H2O with Ni(NO3)2.6H2O.

The electrochemical measurements were carried out in a three-electrode configuration using a Corrtest CS 350 electrochemical workstation with the synthesized NF composites as the working electrode, platinum as the counter electrode, and a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) as the reference electrode. The OER and UOR performance of the synthesized NF composites were evaluated in an electrolyte solution of 1 M KOH and 1 M KOH with 0.5 M urea, respectively. The catalytic activities of the synthesized NF composites were evaluated using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronopotentiometry (CP), and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS)studies. Unless otherwise specified, all the electrochemical potentials provided in this report are in terms of the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Table 1. The synthesized CoxNi1<sup>−</sup>xHCF:NF composites and their respective Rietveld analysed lattice parameters.

| Synthesized CoxNi1−xHCF:NF composite | Lattice constant (Å) | Unit cell volume ( Å3<br>) | Symmetry | Chi 2 | Crystallite size (nm) |
|--------------------------------------|----------------------|----------------------------|----------|-------|-----------------------|
| NiHCF:NF                             | 9.9841               | 995.25                     | Fm-3m    | 5.19  | 34.5                  |
| Co0.3Ni0.7HCF:NF                     | 10.0347              | 1010.44                    | Fm-3m    | 8.53  | 33.2                  |
| Co0.7Ni0.3HCF:NF                     | 10.0379              | 1011.41                    | F-43m    | 6.72  | 17.2                  |
| CoHCF:NF                             | 10.0408              | 1012.31                    | F-43m    | 4.25  | 13.1                  |

## 3. Results and discussion

### 3.1. Structure and morphology

The synthesized CoxNi1−xHCF:NF (with 0 *x* 1) composites were analyzed using x-ray diffraction (XRD). The obtained XRD patterns revealed that the CoxNi1−xHCF:NF composites are polycrystalline and impurity-free (figure S1 (available online at[stacks.iop.org](http://stacks.iop.org/MRX/9/066302/mmedia)/MRX/9/066302/mmedia)). The diffraction patterns corresponding to the pure CoHCF:NF (x = 1) and NiHCF:NF (x = 0) matched well with the standard ICDD patterns corresponding to cubic K2Co[Fe(CN)6] (JCPDS card no:75–0038) and KNi[Fe(CN)6] (JCPDS card no:51–1897)structures, respectively. To further understand the crystal structure and determine the lattice parameters, the XRD patterns were refined by Rietveld analysis(figures 1(a)–(d)), and the results are provided in table 1. The results show that the pure NiHCF had an Fm-3 m crystal symmetry, and a transition in crystal symmetry from Fm-3 m to F-43 m with an increase in x. The lattice constant 'a' is observed to increase with an increase in Co concentration in NiHCF. The diffraction patterns began to shift toward higher angles, as x was increased from 0 to 1, suggesting contraction in the unicell volume owing to the compressive stress induced by the incorporation of Co in the NiHCF lattice.

Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and Raman spectroscopic studies of the synthesized  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites were conducted to analyze their structures in detail. The FTIR spectrum (figure 1(e)) of the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites exhibited a weak and broad absorption bands attributed to the stretching and bending vibrations of zeolitic water molecules at 3400 cm<sup>-1</sup> and 1613 cm<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The absorption bands at lower-wavenumbers than above were attributed to Fe–C and N–Ni (or Co) vibrations. Further, the FTIR spectrum of the CoHCF: NF composite had a strong absorption band at 2157 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which correspond to the  $\nu$  (CN) vibration; therefore, confirming the presence of cyanide ligands in the HCF lattice. The Raman spectrum of the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites (figure 1(f)) exhibited two stokes lines that correspond to  $\nu$ (CN) vibrational modes in the presence of  $Co^{2+}$  (or  $Ni^{2+}$ ) and  $Co^{3+}$  (or  $Ni^{3+}$ ) ionic environments. Moreover, the absorption frequency corresponding to  $\nu$ (CN) vibration began to shift toward a lower wavenumber, as x changed from 0 to 1. A similar shift in  $\nu$ (CN) vibration was also observed in the FTIR spectra of the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites. This shift in the absorption frequency was attributed to the higher degree of  $Ni^{2+}$  polarization compared to that of  $Co^{2+}$ .

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was used to study the chemical states of the constituent elements present in the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites, and the results are presented in figure 2. The XPS studies showed that the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites were formed under stoichiometric conditions. The Co 2p narrow scan spectra reveal two major peaks (at 781 eV and 796 eV attributing to the  $Co\ 2p_{3/2}$  and  $Co\ 2p_{1/2}$  states, respectively), which were deconvoluted further to characterize the  $Co^{2+}$  and  $Co^{3+}$  ionic states. The Ni 2p narrow scan spectra exhibit doublet peaks at 856.3 eV and 873.8 eV attributing to Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{1/2}$  states, respectively, which were deconvoluted further into  $Ni^{2+}$  and  $Ni^{3+}$  ionic states. The results showed that  $Co\ coexisted$  in the 2+ and 3+ ionic states, whereas Ni was preferentially present in the 2+ ionic state in the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF$  lattice. The presence of the 3+ ionic state in  $Co\ coexisted$  or the OER activity. The XPS spectra of Fe  $Co\ coexisted$  potential, which is beneficial for the OER activity. The XPS spectra of Fe Coexisted potential, which is beneficial for the OER activity. The XPS spectra of Fe Coexisted potential, which is energy separation of 13.1 eV, indicating Fe in Coexisted potential, and Coexisted potential, and Coexisted potential, and Coexisted potential elements at Coexisted potential, which is beneficial for the OER activity. The XPS spectra of Fe Coexisted potential, and Coexisted potential elements at Coexisted potential elements at Coexisted potential elements and Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexisted potential elements and Coexisted potential elements are presented in the Coexiste

The surface morphologies of the  $\operatorname{Co}_x\operatorname{Ni}_{1-x}\operatorname{HCF:NF}$  composites were studied using field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM), and the results are shown in figure 3. When x=1, that is, in case of pure CoHCF:NF composite, a distorted cuboid morphology was observed. The particle sizes were non uniform and varied in the range of 45–110 nm. The particles were well-distributed throughout the surface without agglomeration. When x is decreased, that is, with increase in Ni concentration, the particle size started to increase, and a cube-like morphologybegan to appear, owing to the change in crystal symmetry, as evidenced by the XRD results. When x=0, the surface morphology of the pure NiHCF:NF composite had cubic structures that were fused together. This suggests that the presence

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** ((a)–(d)) FE-SEM and ((e)–(h)) HR-TEM images of synthesized  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites and ((i)–(n)) elemental mapping of constituent elements present in the  $Co_{0.7}Ni_{0.3}HCF:NF$  composite.

of Ni in the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF$  lattice improved the Ostwald ripening process. Elemental mapping of the constituent elements present in  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF$  revealed their uniform distribution throughout the surface.

### 3.2. OER catalytic activity

Electrochemical properties of the synthesized Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composites were investigated using a standard three-electrode configuration. Figure 4(a) shows the polarization curves of the Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>1-2</sub>HCF:NF electrodes in 1 M KOH solution. At lower potentials, the polarization curves corresponding to  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF$ : NF exhibit a pair of oxidation peaks which correspond to the conversion of M<sup>2+</sup> to M<sup>3+</sup> and M<sup>3+</sup> to MOOH (where M=Co or Ni) species. However, the sharp increase in the current density (j) at higher potentials was due to the OER activity of the Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF electrodes. The polarization curves showed that the pure CoHCF:NF composite electrodes exhibited a lower OER overpotential ( $\eta$ ) of 334 mV at j = 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> compared to the Co<sub>0.3</sub>Ni<sub>0.7</sub>HCF:NF (389 mV), Co<sub>0.7</sub>Ni<sub>0.3</sub>HCF:NF(408 mV) and NiHCF:NF(443 mV) composite electrodes. Tafel plots were derived from the corresponding polarization curves and are shown in figure 4(b). The Tafel plots show that the pure CoHCF:NF composite electrodes had a lower Tafel slope of 72 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> compared to that of  $Co_{0.3}Ni_{0.7}HCF:NF$  (88 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>),  $Co_{0.7}Ni_{0.3}HCF:NF$  (90 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and NiHCF:NF (126 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) composite electrodes. Therefore, the most favorable kinetics toward OER catalytic activity is that of the CoHCF: NF composite electrodes. To obtain further information on the kinetics of the CoHCF:NF composite electrodes, EIS measurements were made at 1.6 V, and the corresponding Nyquist plots are shown in figure 4(c). The results showed that the CoHCF:NF composite electrodes exhibited smaller semicircles than the other  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes, indicating low charge transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ) and better OER charge transfer kinetics compared to the other composite electrodes. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA)

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. (a) Linear polarization curves, (b) Tafel plots, (c) Nyquist plots, (d)  $\Delta j$  versus  $\nu$  plot, and (e) chrono amperometric curves corresponding to  $Co_xNi_{1-x}$ HCF:NF composite electrodes in 1 M KOH solution. Comparison of OER and UOR potentials as a function of x in  $Co_xNi_{1-x}$ HCF:NF composite electrodes. (f) Linear polarization curves, (g) Tafel plots, and (e) chrono amperometric curves corresponding to  $Co_xNi_{1-x}$ HCF:NF composite electrodes in 1 M KOH with 0.5 M urea solution.

and double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ) of the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes were estimated from the nonfaradaic region of the CV curves (figure S3). The results show that the CoHCF:NF composite electrodes exhibit a higher ECSA (47.3 cm $^{-2}$ ) and C<sub>dl</sub> (189  $\mu$ f) compared to that of Co<sub>0.3</sub>Ni<sub>0.7</sub>HCF:NF (ECSA = 39.2 cm $^{-2}$  and C<sub>dl</sub> = 157  $\mu$ f), Co<sub>0.7</sub>Ni<sub>0.3</sub>HCF:NF (ECSA = 32.5 cm<sup>-2</sup> and C<sub>dl</sub> = 130  $\mu$ f) and NiHCF:NF (ECSA = 29.5 cm<sup>-2</sup> and  $C_{dl} = 118 \,\mu f$ ) composite electrodes (figure 4(d)). It indicates that the CoHCF:NF composite electrodes exhibit more number of electrochemically active sites exposed to the surface, which resulted in a higher OER catalytic activity. Moreover, XPS analysis showed that Co in the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes is present mainly in the 3 + ionic state, which enhances the formation of CoOOH species associated with OER catalytic activity. As a result, when x is changed from 0 to 1, the OER catalytic activity of the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes increased, and a higher OER catalytic activity was observed in the pure CoHCF:NF composite electrodes. Chronoamperometry tests were conducted by applying a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  to test the durability of the Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composite electrodes (figure 4(e)). All the Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composite electrodes exhibited good stability and sustained their catalytic performance even after 9 h. Overall, the CoHCF: NF composite electrodes showed lower overpotential and a higher stability for OER catalytic activity compared to the other Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composite electrodes, owing to their low charge transfer resistance, high electrochemically active surface area, and availability of Co<sup>3+</sup> ions.

### <span id="page-7-0"></span>3.3. UOR catalytic activity

Further, the performance of the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes toward the UOR activity was analyzed in the presence of 0.5 M urea in a 1 M KOH solution. In contrast to 1 M KOH, the polarization curves (figure 4(g)) in the presence of 0.5 M urea showed a significant increase in current density in  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$ composite electrodes at the oxidation potentials of Ni<sup>2+</sup>. Further, maximum current densities were observed in the NiHCF:NF electrodes, which indicate that the oxidized species of Ni are more favorable for UOR catalytic activity. The results showed that the pure NiHCF:NF composites exhibited a lower UOR potential of 1.38 V at  $j = 10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  compared to that of the  $Co_{0.3}Ni_{0.7}HCF:NF$  (1.384 V),  $Co_{0.7}Ni_{0.3}HCF:NF$  (1.386 mV) and CoHCF:NF (1.39 mV) composite electrodes. Moreover, the NiHCF:NF composite electrodes had a lower Tafel slope of 50 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> compared to that of the  $Co_{0.3}Ni_{0.7}HCF:NF$  (64 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>),  $Co_{0.7}Ni_{0.3}HCF:NF$ (70 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and CoHCF:NF (106 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) composite electrodes (figure 4(h)) indicating the most favorable kinetics of NiHCF:NF composites toward UOR catalytic activity. Chronoamperometry tests were conducted by applying a current density of 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  to test the stability of the Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composite electrodes (figure 4(h)). All the Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>HCF:NF composite electrodes exhibited good stability and sustained their UOR catalytic performance even after 9 h with an initial current density of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. These results suggest that the presence of Co<sup>3+</sup> is more favorable for OER catalytic activity, and the presence of the oxidative species of Ni<sup>2+</sup> provides better UOR catalytic activity.

### 4. Conclusions

In summary, we synthesized  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites using a one-pot hydrothermal method. The synthesized  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites with the advantages of high catalytic activity inherited from  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF$  and high conductivity inherited from NF, exhibited superior catalytic performance toward the OERs and UORs. Overall, the pure CoHCF:NF composite electrodes exhibited a lower overpotential ( $\eta$ ) of 334 mV at j=10 mA cm $^{-2}$  and high stability toward OER catalytic activity compared to the other  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composite electrodes, owing to its low charge transfer resistance, high electrochemically active surface area and availability of  $Co^{3+}$  ions. The pure NiHCF:NF composites exhibited a lower UOR potential of 1.38 V at j=10 mA cm $^{-2}$  and better stability owing to the presence of higher  $Ni^{2+}$  ions compared to that other composites. The present study not only establishes the  $Co_xNi_{1-x}HCF:NF$  composites as high-performance and stable catalysts for the OER and UOR, but also provides a template for the design of hybrid PBA catalysts to further enhance their catalytic activity.

### Acknowledgments

This work was supported by a National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korean government (MSIT) (No. 2019R1A2C1089080) and a National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korean government (MSIT) (No. NRF-2022R1G1A1008585).

### Data availability statement

All data that support the findings of this study are included within the article (and any supplementary files).

### Conflicts of interest

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

### **ORCID** iDs

Bommireddy Purusottam Reddy https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1100-7895 Si-Hyun Park https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7106-7913

### References

- [1] Song J, Wei C, Huang Z-F, Liu C, Zeng L, Wang X and Xu Z J 2020 Chem. Soc. Rev. 49 2196–214
- [2] Gao L, Cui X, Sewell C D, Li J and Lin Z 2021 Chem. Soc. Rev. 50 8428–69
- [3] Singh R K, Rajavelu K, Montag M and Schechter A 2021 Energy Technol. 9 2100017
- [4] Zhu B, Liang Z and Zou R 2020 Small 16 1906133

<span id="page-8-0"></span>[5] Yuda A, Ashok A and Kumar A 2022 Catalysis Reviews 64 [126](https://doi.org/10.1080/01614940.2020.1802811)–228 [6] Yang L, Ge J, Liu C, Wang G and Xing W 2017 Current Opinion in Electrochemistry 4 [83](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2017.10.018)–8 [7] Bai J, Liu D, Yang J and Chen Y 2019 ChemSusChem 12 [2117](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201803063)–32 [8] Yaqoob L, Noor T and Iqbal N 2021 RSC Adv. 11 [16768](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1RA01841H)–804 [9] Wu Z-P, Lu X F, Zang S-Q and Lou X W 2020 Adv. Funct. Mater. 30 [1910274](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201910274) [10] Shi Q, Zhu C, Du D and Lin Y 2019 Chem. Soc. Rev. 48 [3181](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8CS00671G)–92 [11] Noor T, Yaqoob L and Iqbal N 2021 ChemElectroChem 8 [447](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.202001441)–83 [12] Miles M H, Klaus E A, Gunn B P, Locker J R, SerafinW E and Srinivasan S 1978 Electrochim. Acta 23 [521](https://doi.org/10.1016/0013-4686(78)85030-0)–6 [13] King R L and Botte G G 2011 J. Power Sources 196 [9579](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2011.06.079)–84 [14] Shu J, Li R, Lian Z, Zhang W, Jin R, Yang H and Li S 2022 J. Colloid Interface Sci. [605](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.07.056) 44–53 [15] Li J, Zhang J and Yang J-H 2022 Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 47 [7693](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.12.099)–712 [16] Zhu Y, Liu X, Jin S, Chen H, Lee W, Liu M and Chen Y 2019 J. Mater. Chem. A 7 [5875](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA12477A)–97 [17] Cheng Y and Jiang S P 2015 Progress in Natural Science: Materials International 25 [545](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pnsc.2015.11.008)–53 [18] Wang Y-J, Fan H, Ignaszak A, Zhang L, Shao S, Wilkinson D P and Zhang J 2018 Chem. Eng. J. [348](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.04.208) 416–37 [19] Chen Z, Wei W and Ni B-J 2022 Current Opinion in Electrochemistry 31 [100888](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2021.100888) [20] Wang H, Jiao X, Zeng W, Zhang Y and Jiao Y 2021 Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 46 [37792](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.09.050)–801 [21] Tareen A K, Priyanga G S, Khan K, Pervaiz E, Thomas T and Yang M 2019 ChemSusChem 12 [3941](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201900553)–54 [22] Zhang W, Cui L and Liu J 2020 J. Alloys Compd. 821 [153542](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2019.153542) [23] Wang Ket al 2020 Nano Energy 77 [105162](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105162) [24] Lv Y and Wang X 2017 Catalysis Science & Technology 7 [3676](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CY00715A)–91 [25] Lei C, Lyu S, Si J, Yang B, Li Z, Lei L, Wen Z, Wu G and Hou Y 2019 ChemCatChem 11 [5855](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201901707)–74 [26] Wang Y, Chen S and Zhang J 2019 Adv. Funct. Mater. 291904955 [27] Su X, Wang Y, Zhou J, Gu S, Li J and Zhang S 2018 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 140 [11286](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b05294)–92 [28] Gu X, Liu Z, Liu H, Pei C and Feng L 2021 Chem. Eng. J. 403 [126371](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.126371) [29] Xu H, Ye K, Zhu K, Gao Y, Yin J, Yan J, Wang G and Cao D 2020 ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 8 [16037](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c06883)–45 [30] Xu H, Ye K, Zhu K, Gao Y, Yin J, Yan J, Wang G and Cao D 2021 Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers 8 [2788](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1QI00230A)–97 [31] Feng Y, Wang X, Dong P, Li J, Feng L, Huang J, Cao L, Feng L, Kajiyoshi K and Wang C 2019 Sci. Rep. 9 [15965](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-52412-1) [32] He T, He Y, Li H, Yin X, Ma J, Shi H, Zhou L and Chen L 2021 Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 46 [37872](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.09.032)–83 [33] Bommireddy P R, Kumar M, Lee Y-W, Manne R, Suh Y and Park S-H 2021 J. Power Sources 513 [230521](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.230521) [34] Bommireddy P R, Chandra Sekhar M, Lee Y-W, Kumar M, Suh Y and Park S-H 2022 Ceram. Int. 48 [11849](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2022.01.055)–57 [35] Matos-Peralta Y and Antuch M 2019 J. Electrochem. Soc. 167 [037510](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0102003JES)

[36] Karyakin A A 2017 Current Opinion in Electrochemistry 5 [92](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2017.07.006)–8

[37] Wang X-F, Ma W, Jiang F, Cao E-S, Sun K-M, Cheng L and Song X Z 2018 Chem. Eng. J. [338](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.01.072) 504–12 [38] Xu X, Wang T, Su L, Zhang Y, Dong L and Miao X 2021 ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 9 [5693](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c00855)–704