---
source: Sharma 等 - 2025 - Vanadium‐Doped Ni3 S2  Morphological Evolution for Enhanced Industrial‐Scale.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 23.365s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:25:46.220496Z
---

www.chemsuschem.org

# **Vanadium-Doped Ni3S2: Morphological Evolution for Enhanced Industrial-Scale Water and Urea Electrolysis**

Pooja J. Sharma,[a] Kinjal K. Joshi,[a] Sohel Siraj,[b] Parikshit Sahatiya,[b] C. K. Sumesh,[a] and Pratik M. [Pataniya](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5858-5895)\*[a]

The development of an earth abundant, cost-effective, facile and multifunctional 3D-porous catalytic network for green hydrogen production is a tremendous challenge. Herein, we report the V-Ni3S2 self-supported catalytic network with optimized morphology grown directly on nickel foam (NF) by the one-step hydrothermal technique for water and urea electrolysis at industrial scale hydrogen generation. The morphology of Ni3S2 was modulated by doping of different concentrations of vanadium from granules to cross-linked wires to hierarchal nanosheets arrays, which is beneficial in electrochemical charge and mass transport, and generates more exposed active sites. The V-Ni3S2 catalyst requires the overpotential of 147 mV for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). The OER and UOR half-cell reaction on V-Ni3S2 catalyst requires potential 1.57 V and 1.39 V (vs RHE), respectively to generate current 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . The water electrolysis cell developed by V-Ni3S2 as both anode and cathode generates 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at cell voltage of 1.88 V in laboratory condition (1 M KOH, 25°C) and 1.61 V at industrial condition (5 M KOH, 80°C) and also shows considerable stability for 82 hr at current 300 mA/cm2 . The urea electrolysis cell with 1 M KOH and 0.33 M urea generates 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at a cell voltage of 1.73 V, which is 150 mV less than that required for water electrolysis and demonstrate stability for 85 hr at a current of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . The results provide an innovative plan for the considerate synthesis and design of bifunctional catalysts for energy storage and water splitting.

# **Introduction**

One of the most essential challenges of modern research is the advancement of high-performance pollution free energy production at sustainable and large scale. An effective and sustainable way of generating environmentally friendly technology to solve energy-related problems is by the electrochemical water splitting of hydrogen (H2) and oxygen (O2).[1] The anodic O2 evolution reaction is a complex four-electron transfer process, which requires a large overpotential. This severely restricts large-scale hydrogen production via water splitting. However, urea and methanol are easily oxidized at the cathode. Urea is a common substance found in human and animal urine, sewage wastewater, etc. It has the dual properties of being a resource and a pollutant. Ammonia, nitrite, nitrate, and nitrogen oxides created by urea will pollute the air and ground-water, eventually pose a major hazard to human health and safety if they are not treated in a timely and appropriate way. The urea oxidation reaction (UOR) exhibits higher negative equilibrium potential of 0.37 V vs. RHE as compared to the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) (i. e. 1.23 V vs. RHE) when compared to the conventional water oxidation reaction.[2]

Since few years, various materials have been explored for efficient electrochemical water splitting, including transition metal nitrides,[3] carbides,[4] oxides,[5] phosphides,[6–9] sulfides,[10–14] and borides.[15] Among these, transition metal sulfides (TMS) have attracted a lot of attention due to their higher electrical conduction, accelerated redox mechanism due to abundance of various valence states of the 3d transitionmetals and their intermediates, and tunable structure and morphology.[16–18] Among them, Ni3S2-based nanostructure has drawn significant attention for bi-functional water electrolysis. The mechanism for urea oxidation on nickel-based electrocatalysts is as follows:

$$6Ni(OH)_2 + 6OH^- \rightleftharpoons 6NiOOH + 6H_2O + 6e^-$$
 (1)

$$6NiOOH + CO(NH2)2 + H2O \rightarrow 6Ni(OH)2 + N2 + CO2$$
 (2)

The Ni-based catalysts demonstrate the oxidation of Ni2<sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, enhances decomposition of urea into N2 and CO2 before reverting to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> for the subsequent electrochemical process. However, the performance of the pure Ni3S2-based nanostructure is poor due to inefficient exposure of active atomicsites and inadequate catalytic activity. To improve the catalytic performance of Ni3S2-based nanostructure or nanocomposites, there are two processes, first is the doping, which promotes the internal activity of each active site. The doping of metal elements such as Co, V, W Mo, and Fe leads to the accelerated electron transport rate as well as electrical conductivity by modify the electronic structure of host material.[19–22] Second is nano-structuring, which is important to increase more exposed

*Correspondence: Pratik M. Pataniya, Department of Physical Sciences, P. D. Patel Institute of Applied Sciences, Charotar University of Science and Technology, CHARUSAT, Anand, Gujarat 388421, India. Email: pm.pataniya9991@gmail.com*

<sup>[</sup>a] *Department of Physical Sciences, P. D. Patel Institute of Applied Sciences, Charotar University of Science and Technology, CHARUSAT, Anand, Gujarat, India*

<sup>[</sup>b] *Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, BITS Pilani Hyderabad, Secunderabad, India*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202401371>*

active sites.[23–25] Recently, U. Phadikar et al. synthesized the marigold like FeNi2S4@Mo-doped Ni3S2/NF nanoarray. The conductivity and the number of redox active sites of heterostructure catalyst is increased by the synergy between FeNi2S4 and Mo-doped Ni3S2. [16] Moreover, Chunhong Qu et al. reported the core-shell nanosheet arrays based on Co4S3/Ni3S2@MoS2 for water electrolysis for hydrogen synthesis and energy storage devices. The core-shell structure exhibits good conductivity and, small interface and it is also advantageous for charge reduction and volume shrinking/swelling during the faster charge/discharge process.[26]

Inspired by the above-mentioned factors, we demonstrated the one-step synthesis of V-doped Ni3S2 nanosheet (NSs) arrays based catalytic network for water and urea electrolysis in an industrial alkaline condition and current densities. An effective modulation of morphology of V-Ni3S2 from granules to crosslinked wires to hierarchal nanosheets arrays improves charge and mass transport and enhances the catalytic performance. Self-supported V-Ni3S2 catalytic network requires low overpotentials for HER, OER, and UOR, demonstrating high efficiency and stability under both laboratory and industrial conditions, making it a promising tri-functional catalyst for large-scale hydrogen generation via water and urea electrolysis.

## **Experimental Section**

**Materials**: Ammonium metavanadate (NH4VO3) and thioacetamide (CH3CSNH2) (Make: Sigma Aldrich) were used for the synthesis. Ni-foam (Make: Techinstro, Purity� 99%) of thickness 1.5 mm, porosity: 95–98% was used for the preparation of working electrodes. HCl, KOH, and acetone were purchased from SRL Chemicals. All chemicals were of the analytical grade and were used directly.

**Fabrication of V-Ni3S2@NF**: The V-Ni3S2@NF was synthesized by facile hydrothermal technique. For the synthesis of V-Ni3S2@NF, thioacetamide (CH3CSNH2) and ammonia metavanadate (NH4VO3) were used as a source of sulfur and vanadium respectively. Initially, for the preparation of V-Ni3S2@NF, 0.075 gm of thioacetamide and 0.012 gm of ammonia metavanadate were solubilized in 50 ml of distilled water. The precursor solution was stirred for about 15–20 min. Concurrently, the nickel foam (NF) pieces measuring (1 cm×2 cm) were subjected to a 2.5 M HCl solution for cleaning, which included sonication for 15 minutes to eliminate any oxide layers and other contaminants. After that, distilled water and acetone were used to rinse the NF pieces. 1×1 cm2 area was defined on pretreated NF, and the remaining area was masked with Teflon tape and placed within a Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave with precursor solution. The Teflon-lines stainless-steel autoclave was heated at 160°C for 12 h which was followed by natural cooling. The resulting electrodes were rinsed with distilled water and acetone and then dried at 70°C for 5 h in a vacuum oven. We synthesized three different electrodes namely 2 mM V-Ni3S2, 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2 by varying the concentration of ammonia metavanadate (NH4VO3) (Table S1, Supporting information). The pristine Ni3S2@NF was prepared using similar procedure without a source of vanadium. It was proposed that the sulfidization of NF occurs via the processes delineated in Equations (3) and (4).[27]

$$(NH_2)_2CS + 2H_2O \rightarrow H_2S + CO_2 + 2NH_3$$
 (3)

$$2H_2S + 3Ni \rightarrow Ni_3S_2 + 2H_2 \tag{4}$$

As prepared Ni3S2@NF, and XV-Ni3S2@NF (X=2 mM, 4 mM, and 6 mM) were used for further characterization and electrochemical tests. The loading of mass on nickel foam for all the electrodes was found to be about 2.30 mg/cm2 (Ni3S2@NF), 4.10 mg/cm2 (2 mM V-Ni3S2@NF), 4.80 mg/cm2 (4 mM V-Ni3S2@NF), 4.97 mg/cm2 (6 mM V-Ni3S2@NF).

## **Result and Discussion**

The self-supported V-Ni3S2 catalysts have been synthesized direct on the scaffold of Ni-foam using one-step hydrothermal technique (Scheme 1). The tuning of morphology and enhanced catalytic performance for V-Ni3S2 catalysts have successfully demonstrated. Firstly, the structure of the V-Ni3S2 catalysts was investigated by powder XRD. Figure 1a presents the powder XRD patterns of pristine Ni3S2 and V-Ni3S2, showing peaks centred at 21.7°, 31.0°, 37.7°, 49.7° and 55.0°, which are wellindexed to (101), (110), (003), (113) and (122) planes of trigonal lattice structure of Ni3S2 (JCPDS no. 44–1418).[28–30] In addition, the peaks at angle 44.6° and 51.9° are indexed to (111) and (200) of Ni (JCPDS no: 04–0850). No phase associated with V are detected in XRD, suggesting the generation of the solidsolution phase.[31] Moreover, the peaks are shifted towards the higher angle side, indicating the lattice compression on addition of V into Ni3S2 lattice.[32] As shown in Figure S1 (supporting information), the TEM image shows the ultra-thin sheets of V-Ni3S2, which is attributing the higher surface-area for the V-Ni3S2 catalysts. Figure S1(c) shows the well-oriented interplanar spacing of 0.19 and 0.24 nm which are attributed to (113) and (003) planes of V-Ni3S2.

Further, the surface chemical composition was investigated by XPS analysis. The high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra of V-Ni3S2 (Figure 1b) presents the characteristic peaks at 854.9 eV and 872.7 eV owing to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> electronic state. The peaks centred at 856.4 eV and 874.5 eV forms due to presence of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> electronic state, confirming the formation of Ni3S2 phase. While, a tiny peak at 851.9 eV can be seen due to Ni<sup>0</sup> electronic state of the Ni-foam. The peaks at 860.5 eV and 878.7 eV are regarded as the satellite peaks.[31,33–36] As compared to XPS of the Ni 2p survey of pristine Ni3S2, the V-incorporation in Ni3S2 causes the positive shifting of Ni 2p peaks, indicating the strong V Ni interaction (Figure S2, supporting information) and also the modified electronic density around the Ni-sites by V-incorporation.[37] Figure 1c displays the V 2p XPS spectrum of V-Ni3S2, showing two distinct peaks at binding energies of 516.1 and 523.5 eV, which are ascribed to V 2p3/2 and V 2p1/2 levels of V<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, indicating the successful incorporation of V into the V-Ni3S2 catalyst. The high-resolution spectra of S 2p is presented in

1864564x, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401371 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Scheme 1.** One-pot hydrothermal synthesis of V-Ni3S2 catalysts, Variation in the morphology of the catalyst with different concentrations of V, Schematics of water and urea electrolysis.

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD pattern of pristine and V-Ni3S2 catalysts and XPS spectra of (b) Ni 2p, (c) V 2p, (d) S 2p for 4 mM-VNi3S2, catalyst.

1864564x, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401371 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 1d, the characteristics peaks at binding energy 161.48 eV and 162.44 eV correspond to S 2p3/2 and S 2p1/2 orbitals of S2 electronic state suggests the presence of metal-sulphide phase. The satellite peak, located at 168.2 eV, is a result of surface oxidation and is observed due to presence of SO4 <sup>2</sup> species. To estimate of ratio of Ni3<sup>+</sup>/Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> concentration, the Ni 2p3/2 peak for pristine Ni3S2 and V-Ni3S2 was analysed. The ratio of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/ Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> is enhanced from 0.82 for pristine Ni3S2 to 0.88 for V-Ni3S2, indicating the enhanced concentration of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> sites on Vincorporation. Considering the lattice compression and enhanced Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ni2<sup>+</sup> ratio, it may be considered that the V4<sup>+</sup> with ionic size 58 nm more readily occupy the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> site with larger ionic size of 69 nm than the Ni3<sup>+</sup> site with smaller ionic size 54 nm.[33,34] Promisingly, Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> electronic state, which maintains more number of 3d electron orbits, leads to the advanced electron-accepting features, resulting in the improved electrocatalytic performance.[37]

Additionally, Figure 2 shows the SEM images of the pristine Ni3S2 and V-Ni3S2 catalysts for the investigation of the morphology. In the pristine Ni3S2, the S2 released from the thioacetamide (20 mM) reacts with the Ni-foam during the hydrothermal process and develops the Ni3S2 granules on the surface of commercial nickel foam (Figure 2b). Herein, the synthesis was carried out without additional Ni-precursor. On feeding 2 mM vanadium precursor in synthesis solution, the Ni-foam surface was fully covered by the vertically oriented and cross-linked-

**Figure 2.** FESEM images of (a) Nickel foam, (b) pristine Ni3S2, (c) 2 mM V-Ni3S2, (d) 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and (e) 6 mM V-Ni3S2 electrode.

1864564x, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401371 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

nanowires of V-Ni3S2 catalyst (Figure 2c). On increasing the Vprecursor up to 4 mM, the cross-linked-nanowires and vertically oriented hierarchical network of nanosheets was developed (Figure 2d), which is beneficial in electrochemical charge transport because of their anisotropic structure, which gives electrons and ions a shorter diffusion path and rapid diffusion kinetics.[38,39] Furthermore, constructing a binder-free self-supported vertically oriented catalytic array direct on the current collector will result in the development of an extremely effective electron conducting convey between the active material to the substrate.[40–44] However, the aggregated and stacked nanosheets structure have been observed on surface of electrodes synthesized with 6 mM V-precursor (Figure 2e). This morphological evolution shows that the size of the nanostructures increases with the increment of the V<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> with large size.[38] This occurrence suggests the addition of V<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> ions could enhance the nucleation and growth rate of V-Ni3S2 on the surface of NF, resulting in an optimisation of the V-Ni3S2 shape.[38] The EDS mapping was further used to characterize the chemical purity and deposition of the catalysts. Figure S3 (supporting information), shows the EDS mapping images of the 4 mM V-Ni3S2 electrode which shows the uniform distribution of V, Ni, and S elements on the surface of catalysts.

#### **Hydrogen Evolution Reaction (HER)**

The electrocatalytic HER performance of pristine Ni3S2, 2 mM V-Ni3S2, 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2 electrodes was investigated in alkaline 1.0 M KOH electrolyser. For comparison, the HER performance of control electrodes such as bare nickel foam and commercial Pt/C was also observed in the identical condition. Figure 3a shows the iR compensated polarization curves for HER on all the electrodes recorded at scan rate of 2 mV/s. As expected, bare NF and pristine Ni3S2 shows the inferior HER activity due to limited catalytic performance. For the quantitative analysis, the overpotential was derived at labscale benchmark current density of 10 and 100 mA/cm2 . The catalytic performance of V-Ni3S2 catalysts is improved as compared to pristine catalysts. The catalyst 2 mM V-Ni3S2, 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2 require the low overpotential of 192, 147, and 185 mV vs RHE to generate 10 mA/cm2 and 311, 254, and 290 mV vs RHE to generate the geometric current value of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . V-Ni3S2 catalysts exhibits the smaller overpotential values as compared to previously reported catalysts based on non-precious and earth-abundant metals Table S2 (Supporting information). However, the performance of present V-Ni3S2 catalysts is inferior than the precious metal Pt/C. To study the HER kinetics, Tafel plots of the as-prepared catalysts are calculated by using polarization curves (Figure 3b). The 4 mM V-Ni3S2 electrode shows the lowest Tafel slope (103 mV/dec) compared to pristine Ni3S2 (109 mV/dec), 2 mM V-Ni3S2 (130 mV/dec), 6 mM V-Ni3S2 (118 mV/dec), indicating that the 4 mM V-Ni3S2 catalyst facilitates the accelerated HER activity because of the superior electrochemical mechanism.[38] The HER activity is directed by the Volmer (H2O+e !Had+OH ) – Heyrovsky (H2O+Had+e !H2+OH ) mechanism, and it is crucial that H2O species first adsorb on the active surface of catalyst. According to the Tafel plot, the V dopants are favourable from a reaction kinetics, viewpoint for enhancing intrinsic HER activity.

Further, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was utilized to study the interfacial charge-transfer at the surface of the electrode, as shown in Figure 3c. The lowered

**Figure 3.** (a) iR-corrected LSV curves. (b) Tafel slopes, and (c) Nyquist plots at 120 mV, of bare NF, Pt/C, Ni3S2, 2 mM V-Ni3S2, 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2 toward HER. (d) The calculated Cdl of Ni3S2, 2 mM V-Ni3S2, 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2. (e) Chrono-potentiometry curve, (f) overpotential comparison at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> current density of as-synthesized catalysts in 1.0 M KOH solution.

semicircle diameter represents a decrease in interfacial charge transfer resistance (Rct), which is directly linked with the reaction kinetics at the catalyst-electrolyte interface. It can be observed that 4 mM V-Ni3S2 catalysts has lowest Rct (3.4 Ωcm2 ) among all the electrodes including pristine Ni3S2 (28.4 Ωcm2 ), 2 mM V-Ni3S2 (4.6 Ωcm2 ), 6 mM V-Ni3S2 (8.0 Ωcm2 ), and therefore, exhibits the faster charge transfer. The presence of a semi-circle for all the electrodes further suggests the strong interaction between electrode and electrolyte, facilitating the efficient chargetransport.[38,45,46] Yuanju Qu et al report the DFT calculations Vdoped Ni3S2 for enhanced HER. The V-doping in Ni3S2 increases the density of states near the Fermi level, which leads to higher conductivity. These results can be confirmed by decreased charge-transfer resistance on V-doping in Ni3S2. [47]

Furthermore, electrocatalytic performance is greatly influenced by electrochemical active surface area (ECSA), because reactions happen at the catalyst surface in solution, so ECSA is directly correlated with its activity. The double-layered capacitance (Cdl) and ECSA were calculated by the CV curves measured at scan rate ranging from 10 to 100 mV/s in the nonfaradic potential range, (Figure S4, supporting information) the results of which are shown in Figure 3d. The ECSA is directly proportional to Cdl (ECSA=Cdl/Ce, Ce=Capacitance in alkaline electrolyte=0.04 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> , Cdl=double layered capacitance), which is measured in a non-faradic region, where the catalyst is not subject to redox chemistry.[14,48] The Cdl of 4 mM V-Ni3S2 is 84.1 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> which is significantly larger than Ni3S2 (0.4 mF/ cm<sup>2</sup> ), 2 mM V-Ni3S2 (47.1 mF/cm2 ), and 6 mM V-Ni3S2(40.8 mF/ cm<sup>2</sup> ). According to these results, there is a greater concentration of electrochemically active sites in the 4 mM V-Ni3S2 electrode compared to other prepared electrodes. An analysis of multistep chrono-potentiometry curves at various current densities ranging from 10 to 300 mA/cm2 is conducted to comprehend the efficacy of mechanical robustness and mass transport of the as-prepared catalysts. As shown in Figure 3e, at different current densities the potential value is found to be almost stable, which demonstrates the stable electronic charge transport of the electrodes. Figure 3f, is the overpotential comparison graph of the prepared electrodes at 10 mA/cm2 and 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density.

#### **Oxygen Evolution Reaction (OER) and Urea Oxidation Reaction (UOR)**

In order to explore the catalyst for overall water electrolysis, the other half reaction i. e. anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) of V-Ni3S2 is also evaluated in the same alkaline electrolyte (1.0 M KOH). Figure 4a shows the iR-compensated polarization curves for pristine Ni3S2, 2 mM V-Ni3S2, 4 mM V-Ni3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2, bare NF and commercial RuO2. With the optimized vanadium concentration, 4 mM V-Ni3S2 shows the superior catalysts performance with the low anodic potential of 1.63 V vs RHE to generate the current density of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> as compared to other electrodes including pristine Ni3S2 (1.800 V vs RHE), 2 mM V-Ni3S2 (1.65 V vs RHE), 6 mM V-Ni3S2 (1.638 V vs RHE), which indicates the vanadium doping also accelerate the OER performance due to accelerated kinetics. However, the performance of present V-Ni3S2 catalysts is inferior to the precious metal RuO2. Promisingly, the current density of 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> is achieved at a low anodic potential of 1.72 V vs RHE. In addition to usual OER characteristic, all polarization curves exhibit with onset at around 1.32 V vs RHE, showing the oxidation of Ni2<sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> electronics states due to the in-situ formation of the NiOOH phase.[49] The peaks current increases significantly for V-Ni3S2 electrodes as compared to pristine Ni3S2 and bare NF, showing the accelerated redox kinetics and leading the higher catalytic performance due to abundance of catalytically active NiOOH sites. The OER performance of the V-Ni3S2 can be facilitated by following steps:[50]

$$*M + OH^{-}_{(aq)} \rightarrow *MOH_{ads} + e^{-}$$
 (5)

\*MOH<sub>ads</sub> + OH<sup>-</sup><sub>(aq)&</sub> 
$$\rightarrow$$
\* MO<sub>ads</sub> + H<sub>2</sub>O + e<sup>-</sup> (6)

\*
$$MO_{ads} + OH_{(aq)\&}^- \rightarrow *MOOH_{ads} + H_2O + e^-$$
 (7)

\*MOOH<sub>ads</sub> + OH<sup>-</sup><sub>(aq)&</sub> 
$$\to$$
 \* M + O<sub>2</sub> + H<sub>2</sub>O + e<sup>-</sup> (8)

(\*M–surface active sites of V-Ni3S2 catalyst)

As discussed for HER, the higher ECSA also leads to higher OER performance for 4 mM V-Ni3S2 due to the abundance of catalytically active sites. Further, the kinetics of OER activity of the as-prepared catalysts is characterized by using the Tafel plot. As shown in Figure 4b, the 4 mM V-Ni3S2 (90 mV/dec) has lowest Tafel slope value among all the catalysts including pristine Ni3S2 (188 mV/dec), 2 mM V-Ni3S2 (94 mV/dec), and 6 mM V-Ni3S2 (127 mV/dec), indicating that 4 mM V-Ni3S2 has faster catalytic kinetics. As shown in Nyquist plots (Figure 4c), the interfacial resistance of 4 mM V-Ni3S2 is around 1.2 Ω, which is significantly less than that of pristine Ni3S2(15.9 Ω), 2 mM V-Ni3S2(2.4 Ω), and 6 mM V-Ni3S2(2.0 Ω), indicating the rapid charge transfer efficiency which leads to improved OER activity. Furthermore, the multi-step chrono-potentiometry test (Figure 4d) was conducted at different current densities from 10 to 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , to evaluate their capacity under dynamic power supply to continuously provide stable currents because it is highly desirable to design electrolysers that operate under fluctuating and highly intermittent renewable energy devices for sustainable and industrial scale hydrogen synthesis. The anodic potential is highly stable in the whole test range of current density (10 mA/cm2 to 300 mA/cm2 ). V-Ni3S2 catalysts exhibits the smaller OER overpotential values as compared to previously reported catalyst based on non-precious and earthabundant metals as tabulated in table. (Table S3, supporting information)

The catalytic activities of the pristine Ni3S2 and V-Ni3S2 in the urea oxidation was first assessed by polarizing them in an aqueous electrolyte, containing 1.0 M KOH and 0.33 M urea. As seen in Figure 4e–g, the UOR processed more often than the OER because of the low thermodynamic potential of UOR (0.37 V). However, a shift from the UOR to the OER occurred at a certain potential based on the catalyst material with a gradual rise in the polarization potential for pristine Ni3S2 catalyst. At a

**Figure 4.** (a) iR-corrected LSV curves in 1 M KOH (b) Tafel Plots, (c) Nyquist plots at 60 mV vs RHE of Ni3S2, 2 mM VNi3S2, 4 mM VNi3S2, and 6 mM V-Ni3S2 toward OER. (d) multi-step chrono-potentiometry curves for as prepared catalysts, (e) LSV polarization curve of 4 mM V-Ni3S2 in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M KOH+0.33 M urea, (f) Half-cell potential for OER and UOR at different current density, (g) LSV polarization curve in 1.0 M KOH+0.33 M Urea solution, (h) Tafel plots, (i) Nyquist Plot toward UOR, (j) multi-step chrono-potentiometry curves for as prepared catalysts in 1.0 M KOH+0.33 M Urea, (k) chrono-amperometry curve at 320 mV vs RHE for urea detection from 0.4 mM to 4 mM concentration, and (l) corresponding CV curve of 4 mM VNi3S2 catalyst at a scan rate of 10 mV/sec.

higher current density, the rate of UOR becomes slow and it switches to OER due to the restriction of the charge and/or mass transfer of electrode materials. Encouragingly, the V-Ni3S2 catalysts demonstrate highly selective UOR, even at higher current density of 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . The urea oxidation reaction occurs via two step process: (i) electrochemical oxidation and (b) chemical reduction process. In the process of the UOR, the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> sites in the catalytic network are first hydrolysed to the corresponding hydroxide and then oxidized to the high-valence Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> OOH phase.[51] This catalytically active phase is continu-

ously consumed by the UOR, as demonstrated by the Equations (9) and (10).[52–54]

Ni 
$$(OH)_2 + OH^- \rightarrow Ni^{3+} - OOH (s) + H_2O + e^-$$
 (9)

$$6Ni^{3+} - OOH (s) + CO(NH2)2 (aq) + 6OH-$$

$$\rightarrow 6Ni^{2+} - (OH)2 (s) + N2 (g) + 5H2O + CO2 (g) + 6e-$$
(10)

As the polarization potential increased, an increasing number of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> OOH sites formed and were eventually consumed. However, when the creation of Ni3<sup>+</sup> OOH sites is

slower than what is required at a specific bias potential, the oxidation current becomes limited, resulting in the formation of an OER-UOR trade-off zone. Figure 4g presents the polarization curves of the prepared catalysts in 1 M KOH  $\pm$  0.33 M urea solution. Moreover, 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalysts show improved activity toward the UOR because it needs a very low overpotential of 1.33 V and 1.53 V vs RHE at the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> and 400 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> respectively. Figure 4f shows the LSV polarization curve of 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> electrode with and without urea in 1 M KOH solution. The peak in the LSV of OER at 1.42 V (vs. RHE) can be ascribed to the peak generated by Ni<sup>+3</sup> –OOH. The anode current of UOR begins to grow at the potential that Ni+3-OOH forms, suggesting that Ni+3-OOH species serve as the catalytic active site for UOR. As shown in Figure 4f, when urea was added, the current density increased quickly, showing that urea can effectively increase the catalytic activity of the as-prepared 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst. we observed that to achieve 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density, the 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> electrode requires an additional 180 mV overpotential in OER compared to UOR confirming the ultralow energy consumption for the substitute UOR. V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalysts exhibits the smaller UOR overpotential values as compared to previously reported catalyst based on non-precious and earth-abundant metals Table. (Table S4, supporting information). Figure 4h, illustrates the Tafel result of the prepared catalysts, demonstrating that compared to pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> (57 mV/dec), 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> achieves a much lower Tafel value of 34 mV/dec, suggesting that V dopants may greatly speed up the UOR catalytic kinetics of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was used to examine the charge transfer characteristics of the electrodes in 1 M KOH + 0.33 M urea solution (Figure 4i). The EIS curve shows that the 4 mM VNi<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalysts have a low interfacial charge transfer resistance of  $0.54 \,\Omega \text{cm}^2$  compared to pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> (0.7 Ωcm<sup>2</sup>), it is confirmed that V-dopants improve reaction kinetics and charge transfer. Multistep chrono-potentiometry was used to further study the durability and mass transport at various current density ranges, from 10 to 300 mA/ cm<sup>2</sup> (Figure 4i). The effective diffusion of electrolyte into the porous and vertical structure of electrodes causes the potential changes sharply when the current density is switched from 10 to 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, indicating efficient mass transfer. Figure 4k displays the amperometry response of the 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> electrode, which was measured with a constant applied potential of 0.32 V while different concentrations of urea (0.4 mM to 4 mM) were added to the alkaline solution successively while stirring continuously. The current response demonstrated a high sensitivity of the electrode to urea concentrations as low as 0.4 mM, which is easily detectable by the 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> electrode. Figure 4l shows the CV response of the  $4\,\text{mM}\,\text{V-Ni}_3\text{S}_2$  electrode with varying urea concentrations. An increase in urea content was associated with a more pronounced rise of anodic peak current densities, indicating high electrocatalytic activity of 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst toward urea electro-oxidation.

#### **Overall Water Electrolysis**

Inspired by the remarkable HER, OER, and UOR catalytic performance of the prepared electrodes, we proposed a twoelectrode setup to examine the overall water-splitting performance in 1.0 M KOH solution. Figure 5a, is the schematic of water electrolysis. 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> | |4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> in Figure 5b demonstrates remarkable HER | OER bi-functionality demonstrating a profound cell potential as low as 1.64 V at the current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> in water electrolysis. Its property exceeds those of  $Ni_3S_2 | Ni_3S_2$  (1.83 V), 2 mM V- $Ni_3S_2 | 2$  mM V- $Ni_3S_2$  (1.70 V), and 6 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> |  $|6 \text{ mM V-Ni}_3S_2|$  (1.69 V) at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density for HER | OER. We also check the performance of 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> electrode in higher concentration and a higher temperature range from 25°C to 80°C (Figure 5c). From Figure 5c, we observed that in 1 M KOH, the 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> required 1.88 V cell voltage to achieve 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density which is reduced to 1.77 V in 5 M KOH solution at room temperature. The 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalysts need only 1.61 V and 1.75 V to achieve 100 and 400 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density, respectively in 5 M KOH at 80 °C temperature. Moreover, as seen in Figure 5d, EIS analysis was carried out to determine the electrocatalysts' kinetics at the electrode/electrolyte interface. The lowest R<sub>ct</sub> further confirms the positive impact of vanadium doping in Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> which provides a short distance for electron transport, and shows the greatly increased HER | OER kinetic of the prepared catalysts.

Additionally, the long-term stability of the catalysts for electrolysis is extremely essential for sustainable water electrolysis. The chrono-potentiometry test was conducted at an industrial scale current density of 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> to investigate the stability of the 4 mM-VNi<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> electrocatalyst for overall water electrolysis (Figure 5e). The cell voltage to generate the higher current density of 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> is seen to be stable for time interval of 82 hours, suggesting the robust nature of selfsupported catalytic network. Generally, morphological evolution and structural change occur on the anode due to oxidation metals. Therefore, the structure of the 4 mM V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst (on anode) was investigated by powder XRD (inset of Figure 5e), showing the preservation of structural purity after long-term catalytic performance. The morphology of the V-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> is also tested after stability to investigate the dimensional stability of the electrodes. The hierarchal nanosheets array type morphology of electrodes is nicely preserved. Furthermore, it is important to study the electronic structure of electrodes after catalytic performance. The XPS spectra of Ni 2p of 4 mM VNi<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst (on anode) shows the characteristic peaks associated with Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> electronic states (Figure S5, supporting information). The electronic environment around Ni-sites is nicely preserved after the stability test. The Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> ratio is slightly enhanced after stability test of anode, attributing the oxidation of Ni<sup>2+</sup> to Ni<sup>3+</sup> and formation of NiOOH species on the surface of anode in alkaline electrolyte during the catalytic performance. [8,67] However, the V2p spectra shows the additional peaks associated with V<sup>5+</sup> apart from V<sup>4+</sup> electronic state, which may be due to formation of V<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> phase after stability test in the alkaline electrolyte. Additionally, the ratio of atomic percentage

**Figure 5.** (a) Schematic diagram of water electrolysis process (b) LSV polarization curve in 1.0 M KOH solution, (c) polarization curve of 4 mM V-Ni3S2 electrode with varying concentration and temperature value, (d) Nyquist plot at 1.5 V cell voltage (e) long-term stability test performed at 300 mA/cm2 constant current density, (f) Chrono-potentiometry curve (g) comparison with previously reported electrochemical overall water-splitting performance of bi-functional catalysts at 10 and 100 mA/cm2 in 1.0 M KOH solution.[55–66]

of V/Ni on anode remains almost unchanged after stability test. However, the proportion of sulphur decreases on the surface of the electrode, which may be due to oxidation of the electrodes.[31,68,69] Figure 5f illustrates the chrono-potentiometry performance of the prepared electrodes, which was measured at 10 to 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density. Furthermore, the vanadium-doped Ni3S2 catalysts show better performance compared to various reported data (Table S5, supporting information) in 1 M KOH (at 10 and 100 mA/cm2 ) solution for overall water electrolysis, as demonstrated in Figure 5g.

#### *Overall Urea Electrolysis*

The schematic presentation of the urea electrolysis process is illustrated in Figure 6a. 4 mM V-Ni3S2 j j4 mM V-Ni3S2 in Figure 6b demonstrates remarkable HERj jUOR bi-functionality demonstrating a profound cell potential as low as 1.73 V at the current density of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> in urea electrolysis (1 M KOH+ 0.33 M urea) which is 150 mV lower than the water electrolysis (1.88 V). Figure 6c illustrates the polarization curve of the all prepared catalysts, showing that the electrocatalytic performance of 4 mM V-Ni3S2 is the best among all-synthesized catalysts Ni3S2 j jNi3S2 (1.90 V), 2 mM VNi3S2 j j2 mM VNi3S2 (1.76 V), and 6 mM VNi3S2 j j6 mM (1.79 V) at 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for urea electrolysis. Figure 6d shows the Nyquist plots for all the catalysts, showing the most efficient charge-transport for 4 mM V-Ni3S2, leading the low overpotential loss and yielding superior catalytic performance.[70,71] To study the viability of the electrode for urea electrolysis, the chrono-amperometry without iRcompensation was carried out at 1.8 V in 1 M KOH+0.33 M urea solution and 4 mM V-Ni3S2 electrode used as both anode and cathode (Figure 6e). It is seen that the current decreases significantly during chrono-amperometry test, indicating the oxidation of urea on 4 mM V-Ni3S2 anode. After 39 h of electrolysis, fresh electrolyte is filled in the electrolysis cell and encouragingly, the current regains its initial value, suggesting the stability of electrodes towards the urea electrolysis. The stability test for urea electrolysis is conducted for time interval of 85 hours. The V-Ni3S2 catalyst (on anode) was tested by

**Figure 6.** (a) Schematic diagram of urea electrolysis, (b) LSV polarization curve of 4 mM V-Ni3S2 in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M KOH+0.33 M urea solution, (c) LSV polarization curve in 1.0 M KOH+0.33 M Urea solution, (d) Nyquist plot at 1.5 cell voltage, (e) chrono-amperometry without iR-compensation test performed at 1.8 V in 1 M KOH+0.33 M Urea solution.

powder XRD after long-stability test (Figure S6, supporting information). The V-Ni3S2 catalyst preserved the crystal structure after long-term urea electrolysis, indicating that V-Ni3S2 NSs functioned as a highly effective UOR catalyst because it not only produced hydrogen by the electrolysis process but also plays a key role in the reduction of urea content in the electrolyte.[72]

Overall, the V-Ni3S2 with optimized concentration of vanadium demonstrates the tuning of the morphology and electronic structure, which leads to the enhanced tri-functional catalytic performance for HER, OER and UOR. Owing the robust nature of the self-supported catalytic network, the water electrolysis is successfully realised in industrial alkaline conditions (5 M KOH and 80°C temperature) and the stability test was conducted at industrial current density of 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for time interval of 82 hours. Furthermore, the urea electrolysis is also conducted for 85 hours for energy saving hydrogen production. 3D-porous catalytic network of V-Ni3S2 on nickel foam offers the multitude of exposed active sites and enhanced electrochemical surface area for catalytic performance. The hierarchal structure of nanosheets with cross-linked wires also speed up the mass transfer of reactant ions. Finally, the present research advocates the development of optimized, robust and non-noble catalytic network for industrial scale hydrogen production.

## **Conclusions**

In conclusion, the V-doped Ni3S2 catalytic array with superior catalytic performance, is synthesized using single-step hydrothermal technique. Optimum content of vanadium in V-Ni3S2 catalysts leads to morphological evolution, resulting in the elevated performance for water and urea electrolysis. The 4 mM V-Ni3S2 catalysts show excellent performance for HER, OER, and UOR in an alkaline medium. The overpotential to achieve 10 mA/cm2 current density is 147 mV, 1.37 V, and 1.33 V vs RHE for HER, OER, and UOR respectively. In the case of water electrolysis, it needs a 1.88 V overpotential at 100 mA/cm2 current density and it shows excellent stability of 82 hours at 300 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> current density, suggesting the capabilities of catalytic network for sustainable hydrogen production at industrial scale. By substituting the anodic oxygen evolution process with UOR in 1.0 M KOH with 0.33 M urea, we were able to further build an energy-efficient hydrogen generating system mediated by urea. This urea electrolysis cell needs only 1.73 V to offer 100 mA/cm2 current density which is 150 mV less than that of water electrolysis. Thus, this work offered an effective approach for creating extremely active electrode materials electrocatalysis, which would be advantageous for practical applications.

## *Acknowledgements*

This work was financially supported by Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) under CHARUSAT SEED GRANT FOR RESEARCH (CSGR)-PD3/22 (WATERSPLITTING). Ms. Pooja J. Sharma is thankful to CHARUSAT for Providing CPSF (CHARUSAT PhD scholar fellowship). The authors are thankful to CHARUSAT for providing research facilities.

## *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

## *Data Availability Statement*

Data will be made available on request.

**Keywords:** V-Ni3S2 catalysts **·** Hydrothermal synthesis **·** Overall water electrolysis **·** Overall urea electrolysis

- [1] C. Wu, Y. Du, Y. Fu, D. Feng, H. Li, Z. Xiao, Y. Liu, Y. Yang, L. Wang, *Energy Fuels* **2020**, *4*, 1654–1664 [https://doi.org/10.1039/C9SE00822E.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9SE00822E)
- [2] J. Wan, Z. Wu, G. Fang, J. Xian, J. Dai, J. Guo, Q. Li, Y. You, K. Liu, H. Yu, W. Xu, H. Jiang, M. Xia, H. Jin, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *91*, [226–235](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2023.12.017) https:// [doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2023.12.017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2023.12.017).
- [3] D. Guo, Z. Zeng, Z. Wan, Y. Li, B. Xi, C. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2101324.
- [4] Y. Y. Ma, Z. L. Lang, L. K. Yan, Y. H. Wang, H. Q. Tan, K. Feng, Y. J. Xia, J. Zhong, Y. Liu, Z. H. Kang, Y. G. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE01129J) Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2114– 2123 [https://doi.org/10.1039/c8ee01129j.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE01129J)
- [5] M. S. Alnarabiji, O. Tantawi, A. Ramli, N. A. Mohd Zabidi, O. Ben Ghanem, B. Abdullah, *Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.* **2019**, *114*, 109326 [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.109326) [org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.109326.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.109326)
- [6] S. Li, G. Zhang, X. Tu, J. Li, *[ChemElectroChem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201701112)* **2018**, *5*, 701–707.
- [7] X. Fan, F. Kong, A. Kong, A. Chen, Z. Zhou, Y. Shan, *ACS Appl. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b11229) Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, [32840–32850.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b11229)
- [8] P. J. Sharma, K. H. Modi, P. Sahatiya, C. K. Sumesh, P. M. Pataniya, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2024**, *644*, 158766 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.158766) [158766](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.158766).
- [9] P. J. Sharma, S. Siraj, P. Sahatiya, C. K. Sumesh, P. M. Pataniya, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2024**, *967*, 118491 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2024.118491) [2024.118491](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2024.118491).
- [10] X. Ji, Y. Lin, J. Zeng, Z. Ren, Z. Lin, Y. Mu, Y. Qiu, J. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1380.
- [11] W. Zhu, M. Ren, N. Hu, W. Zhang, Z. Luo, R. Wang, J. Wang, L. Huang, Y. Suo, J. Wang, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, [5011–5020.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b04663)
- [12] N. Trivedi, M. Balal, V. Patel, S. R. Barman, C. K. Sumesh, P. M. Pataniya, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2023**, *944*, 117648 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2023.117648) [2023.117648.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2023.117648)
- [13] N. Trivedi, K. K. Joshi, S. Siraj, P. Sahatiya, V. Patel, C. K. Sumesh, P. M. Pataniya, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *49*, 1113–1122 [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.11.036) [1016/j.ijhydene.2023.11.036](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.11.036).
- [14] P. M. Pataniya, V. Patel, P. Sahatiya, D. J. Late, C. K. Sumesh, *Surf. Interfaces* **2022**, *34*, 102319 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2022.102319>.
- [15] X. Ma, K. Li, X. Zhang, B. Wei, H. Yang, L. Liu, M. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2019**, *7*, [14904–14915.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA03762D)
- [16] U. Phadikar, S. Das, S. Bolar, A. Kundu, H. Kolya, C. W. Kang, N. C. Murmu, T. Kuila, *J. Power Sources* **2023**, *576*, 233244 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2023.233244) [jpowsour.2023.233244](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2023.233244).
- [17] L. Long, Y. Yao, M. Yan, H. Wang, G. Zhang, M. Kong, L. Yang, X. Liao, G. Yin, Z. Huang, *J. Mater. Sci.* **2017**, *52*, 3642–3656 [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-016-0529-9) [1007/s10853–016–0529–9.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-016-0529-9)
- [18] L.-L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G.-D. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen, X. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14023–14026 [https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b08186) [5b08186.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b08186)
- [19] H. Qin, B. Zhang, Y. Pan, X. Wang, L. Diao, J. Chen, J. Wu, E. Liu, J. Sha, L. Ma, N. Zhao, *J. Catal.* **2020**, *381*, 493–500 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.018) [2019.11.018](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.018).
- [20] P. Liu, J. Zhu, J. Zhang, P. Xi, K. Tao, D. Gao, D. Xue, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00111) Lett.* **2017**, *2*, [745–752](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00111).
- [21] M. S. Amer, P. Arunachalam, A. M. Al-Mayouf, A. A. AlSaleh, Z. A. Almutairi, *Environ. Res.* **2023**, *236*, 116818 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2023.116818) [envres.2023.116818.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envres.2023.116818)
- [22] M. J. S. Mohamed, Y. Slimani, M. A. Gondal, M. A. Almessiere, A. Baykal, M. Hassan, A. Z. Khan, A. Roy, *Sci. Rep.* **2023**, *13*, 2120 [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598023290812) [1038/s41598–023–29081–2.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598023290812)

- [23] W. Zhou, J. Zhao, J. Guan, M. Wu, G. R. Li, *ACS Omega* **2019** [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b02555) [org/10.1021/acsomega.9b02555.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b02555)
- [24] M. Yue, X. He, S. Sun, Y. Sun, M. S. Hamdy, M. Benaissa, A. A. M. Salih, J. Liu, X. Sun, *Nano Res.* **2023**, 1–6 [https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274–023–](https://doi.org/10.1007/s1227402360026) [6002–6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s1227402360026).
- [25] J. S. Chen, C. Guan, Y. Gui, D. J. Blackwood, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b14746)* **2017**, *9*, 496–504 [https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b14746.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b14746)
- [26] C. Qu, J. Cao, Y. Chen, M. Wei, H. Fan, X. Liu, X. Li, Q. Wu, B. Feng, L. Yang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, 648–661, [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.09.278) [ijhydene.2022.09.278.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.09.278)
- [27] X. Ou, L. Gan, Z. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2014**, *2*, [19214–19220.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA04502E)
- [28] W. Dong, H. Zhou, B. Mao, Z. Zhang, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.12.192) Energy.* **2021**, *46*, 10773–10782 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.12.192.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.12.192)
- [29] B. Ma, X. Guo, X. Zhang, Y. Chen, X. Fan, Y. Li, F. Zhang, G. Zhang, W. Peng, *Energy Technol.* **2019**, *7* <https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.201900063>.
- [30] L. Ma, K. Zhang, S. Wang, L. Gao, Y. Sun, Q. Liu, J. Guo, X. Zhang, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.06.044) Surf. Sci.* **2019**, *489*, 815–823 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.06.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.06.044) [044.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.06.044)
- [31] Q. Ha, N. Susanto, C. Yeh, D. Kuo, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *472*, 144931 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.144931.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.144931)
- [32] T. Logu, K. Sankarasubramanian, P. Soundarrajan, J. Archana, Y. Hayakawa, K. Sethuraman, *J. Anal. Appl. [Pyrolysis.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaap.2016.09.019)* **2016**, *122*, 230–240 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaap.2016.09.019.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaap.2016.09.019)
- [33] X. Tong, Y. Li, N. Pang, Y. Qu, C. Yan, D. Xiong, S. Xu, L. Wang, P. K. Chu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *425*, 130455 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.130455) [130455.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.130455)
- [34] X. Han, N. Li, P. Xiong, Y. Kang, Q. Dou, Q. Liu, W. Li, J. Y. Lee, H. S. Park, *Compos. Part B Eng.* **2022**, *234*, 109670 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2022.109670) [compositesb.2022.109670](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2022.109670).
- [35] Y. Zhu, X. Wang, X. Zhu, Z. Wu, D. Zhao, F. Wang, D. Sun, Y. Tang, H. Li, G. Fu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2206531 [https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202206531.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202206531)
- [36] Y. Zhu, X. Wu, Z. Wu, X. Wang, X. Wang, C. Wang, X. Zhu, M. Li, D. Sun, H. Li, Y. Tang, G. Fu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *n/a*, 2409324 [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202409324) [org/10.1002/adfm.202409324](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202409324).
- [37] H. Wang, T. Liu, K. Bao, J. Cao, J. Feng, J. Qi, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.12.044) Sci.* **2020**, *562*, 363–369 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.12.044.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.12.044)
- [38] X. Chang, S. Li, L. Wang, L. Dai, Y. Wu, X. Wu, Y. Tian, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, 2313974 [https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202313974.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202313974)
- [39] X. Yang, L. Xu, S. Xiong, H. Rao, F. Tan, J. Yan, Y. Bao, A. Albanese, A. Camposeo, D. Pisignano, B. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2024**, *24*, 566–575 [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.3c03213) [org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.3c03213](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.3c03213).
- [40] H. Yang, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102074 [https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102074.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102074)
- [41] F. Diao, W. Huang, G. Ctistis, H. Wackerbarth, Y. Yang, P. Si, J. Zhang, X. Xiao, C. Engelbrekt, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, [23702–23713](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c03089) <https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c03089>.
- [42] H. Sun, Z. Yan, F. Liu, W. Xu, F. Cheng, *J. Chen, Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1– 18 <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201806326>.
- [43] X. Yang, R. Xu, L. Wen, Z. Lou, Q. Chen, B. Li, *[Fundam.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fmre.2021.06.023) Res.* **2022**, *2*, 59– 65 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fmre.2021.06.023.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fmre.2021.06.023)
- [44] H. Rao, Z. Liu, M. Chen, C. Zheng, L. Xu, J. Liu, J. W. Y. Lam, B. Li, X. Yang, B. Z. Tang, *Aggregate* **2024**, *5*, e453, [https://doi.org/10.1002/agt2.453.](https://doi.org/10.1002/agt2.453)
- [45] P. J. Sharma, N. M. Solanki, K. H. Modi, U. Purohit, S. Siraj, P. Sahatiya, S. K. Gupta, P. N. Gajjar, C. K. Sumesh, P. M. Pataniya, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.352) Energy* **2024**, *85*, 374–384 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.352) [352.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.352)
- [46] P. J. Sharma, N. A. Trivedi, K. S. Joseph, S. Siraj, P. Sahatiya, S. Dabhi, C. K. Sumesh, P. M. Pataniya, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.224) Energy.* **2024**, *84*, 97–105 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.224.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.08.224)
- [47] Y. Qu, M. Yang, J. Chai, Z. Tang, M. Shao, C. T. Kwok, M. Yang, Z. Wang, D. Chua, S. Wang, Z. Lu, H. Pan, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b13244)* **2017**, *9*, 5959–5967 [https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b13244.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b13244)
- [48] S. Feng Zai, Y. Han Wu, Y. Tong Zhou, Z. Tian Hui Li, C. Bin Guo, *J. [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.04.043) Interface Sci.* **2023**, *643*, 350–359 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.04.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.04.043) [043.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.04.043)
- [49] W. Yang, X. Yang, C. Hou, B. Li, H. Gao, J. Lin, X. Luo, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2019**, *259*, 118020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118020) [118020.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118020)
- [50] R. Manikandan, C. Justin Raj, G. Nagaraju, R. Velayutham, S. E. Moulton, J. Puigdollers, B. Chul Kim, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *414*, 128924 [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.128924) [org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.128924.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.128924)
- [51] R. Lin, L. Kang, T. Zhao, J. Feng, V. Celorrio, G. Zhang, G. Cibin, A. Kucernak, D. J. L. Brett, F. Corà, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, [2386–2396.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE03522C)

- [52] R. P. Forslund, J. T. Mefford, W. G. Hardin, C. T. Alexander, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 5044–5051 [https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00487) [acscatal.6b00487](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00487).
- [53] L. Sha, K. Ye, J. Yin, K. Zhu, K. Cheng, J. Yan, G. Wang, D. Cao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *381*, <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2019.122603>.
- [54] R. Lin, L. Kang, T. Zhao, J. Feng, V. Celorrio, G. Zhang, G. Cibin, A. Kucernak, D. J. L. Brett, F. Corà, I. P. Parkin, G. He, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE03522C) Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 2386–2396 [https://doi.org/10.1039/d1ee03522c](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE03522C).
- [55] J. Yu, Y. Du, Q. Li, L. Zhen, V. P. Dravid, J. Wu, C.-Y. Xu, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2018.09.177) Surf. Sci.* **2019**, *465*, 772–779 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2018.09.177.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2018.09.177)
- [56] Y. Zhang, Q. Shao, S. Long, X. Huang, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *45*, [448–455.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.01.022)
- [57] X. Li, X. Duan, C. Han, X. Fan, Y. Li, F. Zhang, G. Zhang, W. Peng, S. Wang, *Carbon N. Y.* **2019**, *148*, [540–549.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2019.04.021)
- [58] R. Q. Li, Q. Liu, Y. Zhou, M. Lu, J. Hou, K. Qu, Y. Zhu, O. Fontaine, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA09473K) Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 4159–4166 [https://doi.org/10.1039/d0ta09473k](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA09473K).
- [59] Q. Liu, L. Wei, Q. Liu, G. Chen, X. Kong, *ACS Appl. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00710) Mater.* **2018**, *1*, 3488–3496 [https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00710.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00710)
- [60] Z. Liang, Z. Yang, J. Dang, J. Qi, H. Yuan, J. Gao, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, R. Cao, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2019**, *25*, [621–626.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201804492)
- [61] J. Wang, H. Zhong, Z. Wang, F. Meng, X. Zhang, *ACS [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b07126)* **2016**, *10*, [2342–2348](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b07126).
- [62] J. Yin, Y. Li, F. Lv, M. Lu, K. Sun, W. Wang, L. Wang, F. Cheng, Y. Li, P. Xi, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1–8 [https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201704681) [201704681](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201704681).
- [63] H. Liang, L. Li, F. Meng, L. Dang, J. Zhuo, A. Forticaux, Z. Wang, S. Jin, *Chem. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, [5702–5711](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b02177).

- [64] Y. Li, B. Huang, Y. Sun, M. Luo, Y. Yang, Y. Qin, L. Wang, C. Li, F. Lv, W. Zhang, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1804212.
- [65] M. A. R. Anjum, M. H. Lee, J. S. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, [8296–8305.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b01794)
- [66] C. B. Sun, M. W. Guo, S. S. Siwal, Q. B. Zhang, *J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.034)* **2020**, *381*, 454– 461 <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.034>.
- [67] V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2013**, *108* [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137) [org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137)
- [68] M. Ahasan Habib, R. Mandavkar, S. Lin, S. Burse, T. Khalid, M. Hasan Joni, J.-H. Jeong, J. Lee, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *462*, 142177 [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.142177) [1016/j.cej.2023.142177](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.142177).
- [69] J. Wang, X. Ma, F. Qu, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Inorg. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b02808)* **2017**, *56*, 1041– 1044 [https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b02808.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6b02808)
- [70] H. Xu, Y. Liao, Z. Gao, Y. Qing, Y. Wu, L. Xia, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA09423D) Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 3418–3426 [https://doi.org/10.1039/d0ta09423d.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA09423D)
- [71] H. R. Kim, G. Lee, G. D. Nam, D. Kim, J. H. Joo, *Small* **2021**, *17* [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202101571) [org/10.1002/smll.202101571.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202101571)
- [72] J. Wang, Y. Sun, Y. Qi, C. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c18593)* **2021**, *13*, 57392–57402 <https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c18593>.

Manuscript received: June 26, 2024 Revised manuscript received: August 25, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: August 31, 2024 Version of record online: October 28, 2024