---
source: Shi 等 - 2025 - Self‐Encapsulated Ni Nanoparticles on Delignified Wood Carbon for Efficient Urea‐Assisted Hydrogen P.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.309s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:27:59.152497Z
---

# **Self-Encapsulated Ni Nanoparticles on Delignified Wood Carbon for Efficient Urea-Assisted Hydrogen Production**

*Zhikai Shi, Yao Zhang, Wei Guo, Zhuohui Niu, Yan Chen, and Jianlin Huang\**

**Developing efficient, low-cost electrocatalysts for industrial-level hydrogen production remains a significant challenge. Here lattice-distorted Ni nanoparticles (NPs) encapsulated within a nitrogen-doped carbon shell on delignified wood carbon (Ni-NC@DWC) are constructed through a chitosan-induced assembly and the pyrolysis process. Experimental and theoretical results indicate that the lattice distortion due to strong metal-support interactions, boosts electron transfer and reaction intermediate adsorption/desorption, enhancing both the urea oxidation reaction (UOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Interestingly, the active center Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O is dynamically cyclically generated during the UOR. When utilized as a self-standing electrode in an alkaline electrolyte, the Ni-NC@DWC exhibits low potentials of 24 mV and 1.244 V at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER and UOR, respectively. Moreover, the Ni-NC@DWC achieves an ultrasmall cell voltage of 1.13 V at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for urea-assisted water splitting and can operate stably over 1000 h. Furthermore, when it is self-assembled as an anion exchange membrane (AEM) electrolyzer, it requires only 1.62 V at 2000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for industrial urea-assisted water splitting and operates stably for 150 h without degradation, confirming that it is highly attractive for economical, sustainable, and scalable hydrogen production.**

**1. Introduction**

Substituting the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is a promising strategy for energy-saving hydrogen (H2) generation, given the lower thermodynamic voltage of 0.37 V for UOR compared to that of OER (1.23 V).[\[1–3\]](#page-10-0) Additionally, urea-rich wastewater can be efficiently purified by the electrocatalytic oxidation of urea, which not only eliminates pollution to the environment, but also facilitates the N-cycling process.[\[4\]](#page-10-0) Nevertheless, the UOR has torpid kinetics, which involves multiple intermediates transformation, gas product-desorption, and CO-poisoning.[\[5–7\]](#page-10-0) Thus, it is of considerable significance to develop electrocatalysts with high activity and robust stability for accelerating the rate of this complicated process.

Z. Shi, Y. Zhang, W. Guo, Z. Niu, Y. Chen, J. Huang School of Environment and Energy Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Solid Wastes Pollution Control and Recycling South China University of Technology Guangzhou 510006, China E-mail: [jianlinhuang@scut.edu.cn](mailto:jianlinhuang@scut.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202414935>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202414935**

Numerous studies have shown that Nibased catalysts hold great promise as an effective alternative to noble metals in catalyzing both hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and UOR. This is due to their intrinsic activity, multiple valences, and ability to undergo self-oxidation during the electrocatalytic process.[\[8–10\]](#page-10-0) However, it is difficult for Ni-based catalysts to exhibit remarkable activity and satisfactory durability in both HER and UOR due to the usual occurrence of dissolution, oxidation, and corrosion for catalytic sites under severe reaction conditions, i.e., alkaline/acidic electrolyte, high cell voltage, and large current density. To address these issues, many strategies have been developed to fabricate highly efficient and durable nonnoble-metal-based electrocatalysts, such as alloys,[\[11–13\]](#page-10-0) heterojunction,[\[14–16\]](#page-10-0) and encapsulated/embedded-type catalysts[\[17–19\]](#page-10-0) for boosting HER and UOR performances. Among these catalysts, particular focus has been directed toward N-doped-carbon encapsulated metal

nanoparticles (NPs) due to their stable carbon shells. These shells serve to inhibit the corrosion and aggregation of the metal active sites, while also accelerating electrons transmission between N-doped carbon layers and metal sites, resulting in enhanced catalytic performance.[\[20–22\]](#page-10-0) While proven effective, encapsulated-type catalysts often exist in a powder state requiring a tedious slurry-based electrode preparation process, wherein inevitably covers some of the catalytic sites partially and obstructs mass transport. Moreover, the powdered electrocatalyst is often detached from conductive substrates due to the weak bonding between substrate and catalyst during the reaction process, leading to a decline in the activity and stability of electrocatalysts. Therefore, an ideal electrocatalyst with remarkable activity and satisfactory stability should be low-cost, self-standing, additive/binder-free, and sustainable. Such catalysts can maximize the exposure of the active sites and enhance charge and mass transfer. Recent research on woodderived carbon as a green, inexpensive, sustainable template scaffold has rapidly advanced for a wide range of functional applications.[[23–27\]](#page-10-0) With its 3D less-tortuous hierarchically porous structure, inexpensive, excellent electric conductivity, and superb corrosion resistance, it is regarded as a promising candidate material for high-performance electrodes. For example, Hu and coworkers[\[28\]](#page-10-0) presented few-graphene-layer-encapsulated

NiFe-alloy NPs in porous carbonized wood as outstanding electrocatalysts for HER. Li and co-authors prepared an integrated carbon electrode,[\[29\]](#page-10-0) delivering remarkable catalytic performance toward HER at industrial-level current density. Peng et al. developed a wood-derived chainmail catalyst,[\[30\]](#page-10-0) exhibiting impressive trifunctional electrocatalytic performance toward biomass-assisted hydrogen production. Wang et al. reported selfencapsulation of high-entropy alloy NPs on carbonized wood for highly active and durable HER.[\[31\]](#page-10-0) Despite these encouraging achievements, it is important to recognize the significant gap between laboratory research and industrial application. Therefore, the rational design of electrocatalysts with distinguished performance remains an urgent need for large-scalable and sustainable hydrogen production.

In this study, an efficient, durable, and self-standing electrocatalyst is developed by encapsulating Ni NPs in the N-doped carbon shell, in situ grown on delignified wood carbon (Ni-NC@DWC). Such "self-encapsulation" represents that the coating layer of Ni NPs was *in-situ* formatted during the synthesis process, rather than post-addition of the carbon layer. This highly open, lowtortuosity, 3D interconnected hierarchically porous structure of Ni-NC@DWC facilitates electron and electrolyte transport within the electrodes, ensuring rapid desorption of gas products. Thus, the as-prepared Ni-NC@DWC catalyst exhibits impressive bifunctional electrocatalytic performance for both UOR and HER. It achieves low overpotentials of 24 mV and 1.244 V at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER and UOR, respectively. Notably, in a two-electrode electrolyzer using Ni-NC@DWC as bifunctional catalysts for the urea-assisted hydrogen production system, an ultralow cell voltage of only 1.13 V is required to achieve an industrial-level current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is 450 mV lower than the 1.58 V required for traditional water splitting. Moreover, it maintains performance for over 1,000 h at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> without obvious decline, indicating extraordinary durability even under a large current density. Surprisingly, when the bifunctional Ni-NC@DWC is self-assembled as an anion exchange membrane (AEM) electrolyzer, it requires only 1.62 V at an industrial-grade current density of 2000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for urea-assisted water splitting and operates stably for 150 h without degradation. This work highlights an inexpensive, effective, and sustainable bifunctional electrocatalyst for urea-assisted water splitting, promoting energy-saving hydrogen production and demonstrating significant potential in electrocatalytic energy conversion and wastewater purification.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Compositional and Structural Characterizations**

The fabricated process of Ni-NC@DWC is illustrated in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) First, natural wood was delignified to expose more porosities and ribbon cellulose with substantial hydroxyl (─OH) groups, providing plentiful coordinated active sites. Afterward, the delignified wood (DW) substrate was impregnated into the suspension of Ni2<sup>+</sup> chelated chitosan (Ni-CTS) by NH2-groups. During the immersion, the Ni-CTS further reacted with ─OH groups on the cell walls of DW through hydrogen-bond interactions. Ultimately, the impregnated DW was pyrolyzed in an inert atmosphere, resulting in Ni NPs self-encapsulated within N-doped carbon shells on porous delignified wood carbon (Ni-NC@DWC). Wherein, the chitosan as a green, renewable, and biodegradable ligand plays multifunction:1) providing an Ndoped carbon shell coated Ni nanoparticle core with strong metalsupport interactions; 2) offering plentiful NH2-groups to coordinate Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> for the homogenous dispersion of Ni active sites; 3) acting as a stabilizer and bridge-linker to anchor and confine Ni NPs into ribbon cellulose in every channel of DWC. In addition, the Ni-NC@DWC exhibits superior surface wettability with a water contact angle of ≈0°, lower than those of carbon paper (≈116.3°), wood carbon (WC ≈114.3°), and delignified wood carbon (DWC ≈83.6°) (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The rapid diffusion and penetration of water droplets on the Ni-NC@DWC surface were clearly observed in Video S1 (Supporting Information). Meanwhile, it also demonstrates improved electrical conductivity with a resistance of 2.8 Ω, lower than that of carbon paper (4.1 Ω), WC (8.3 Ω), and DWC (3.7 Ω). These results suggest that the Ni-NC@DWC possesses desirable hydrophilicity and conductivity, which are favorable for promoting electrolyte infiltration, electron migration, and mass diffusion toward highly efficient water electrolysis.

The micromorphology and structure of the Ni-NC@DWC were investigated by the SEM and TEM characterizations. The photographs of Ni-NC@DWC show a monolithic shape with a size of 1.0 × 1.0 × 0.05 cm<sup>3</sup> and can be directly used as selfstanding electrodes (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). In Figure [1c,d,](#page-2-0) the Ni-NC@DWC well-inherits low-tortuous channel structure from natural wood, and the Ni NPs are homogenously dispersed on cellulose in each microchannel of DWC. During the annealing process, the Ni(CH3COO)2 precursor was reduced to Ni NPs through reducing species, i.e., N and C generated via the chitosan decomposition, and firmly anchored onto each channel inside DWC. The as-prepared Ni-NC@DWC possesses a large surface area, favoring more exposure of Ni NPs due to its hierarchical porosity structure (Figure S4a–d, Supporting Information). The Ni-NC@DWC also exhibits amazing mechanical integrity, standing *>*10 000 times its initial weight without obvious structural collapse (Figure S4h, Supporting Information). Figure [1e](#page-2-0) and Figure S4e (Supporting Information) confirm the uniform dispersion of Ni NPs in the microchannels of DWC with an average diameter of approximately 30 nm. Figure [1f](#page-2-0) and Figure S4g (Supporting Information) reveal that the Ni-core NPs are coated by the N-doped carbon shells, which can not only inhibit the agglomeration of Ni NPs, but also enhance the corrosion resistance of the Ni NPs during the electrocatalytic process. The interplanar spacings of 0.22 and 0.34 nm could be assigned to metallic Ni (111) and graphite carbon (002), respectively.[\[32,33\]](#page-10-0) Interestingly, abundant distorted lattices of the Ni-core NPs were clearly observed in Figure [1g,h,](#page-2-0) which can be attributed to the strong metal-support interaction between the Ni nanoparticle core and the N-doped carbon shell. Moreover, the distortion degrees of the Ni lattices were significantly affected by different amounts of added chitosan in the precursors. Direct pyrolysis without chitosan will lead to the agglomeration of naked Ni NPs (Figure S5, Supporting Information). With the addition of chitosan (0.2 g), the lattice distortion of Ni NPs occurs on the DWC (Figure S6, Supporting Information). With more chitosan, the lattice distortion will increase gradually (Figure S7, Supporting Information), and finally lead to maximum lattice deformation

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Ni-NC@DWC. b) Photo, c,d) SEM, e–h) TEM images, i) SAED pattern, and j) corresponding elemental mappings of the Ni-NC@DWC.

(1.0 g chitosan), which favors to form an asymmetric region of electron-donating/electron-withdrawing and generates more defects at core-shell interfaces (Figure 1g,h; Figure S8b, Supporting Information). Figure 1i indicates the different two sets of diffraction rings for the Ni-NC@DWC.[\[34\]](#page-10-0) As shown in Figure 1j, the uniform distribution of C and N elements on the surface of Ni NPs, confirms the successful formation of self-coated Ni NPs. As detailed in Table S2 (Supporting Information), the mass loading of Ni NPs in the Ni-NC@DWC composite is determined to be 2.49 wt%(0.25 mg·cm<sup>−</sup>2) by the inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) measurement.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) peaks of Ni-NC@DWC well correspond to the standard cards of metallic Ni (PDF#04-0850) and graphite carbon in **Figure 2**[a,](#page-3-0) [\[35,36\]](#page-10-0) implying the successful

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD and b) Raman patterns of different samples. High-resolution XPS spectrums of c) N 1s and d) Ni 2p. e) N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms and f) corresponding pore size distribution. The inset is a part of 0–35 nm pore size magnified.

preparation for the self-encapsulation of Ni NPs. Raman spectra deliver typical graphitic (G band) and defective (D band) peaks at 1583 and 1351 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> respectively (Figure 2b).[\[37\]](#page-10-0) The ID/IG value is used to investigate the defect strength and graphitic degree in carbonaceous materials. The Ni-NC@DWC shows a lower ID/IG value of 1.46 than that of NC@DWC (2.42) and DWC (2.20), indicating more graphited carbons generation in Ni-NC@DWC during pyrolysis, which is beneficial for enhancing electronic conductivity. The chemical valences and the near-surface region compositions of the prepared electrocatalysts are displayed by the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analyses. The XPS full spectrum is presented in Figure S12a (Supporting Information), demonstrating the existence of C, N, O, and Ni elements in Ni-NC@DWC, which is well agreed with the result of TEMmapping. In Figure S12b (Supporting Information), the XPS spectra of C 1s could be deconvolved into four peaks at 288.7, 287.1, 286.0, and 284.8 eV belonging to the C═O, C─O, C─N, and C═C/C─C peaks, respectively.[\[38,39](#page-10-0)] The XPS spectrum of N 1s could be deconvoluted into five peaks at 398.8, 399.4, 400.2, 401.7, and 403.6 eV in Figure 2c, corresponding to pyridine N, Ni-Nx, pyrrolic N, graphitic N, and oxidized-N, respectively.[\[40,41\]](#page-10-0) The binding energy of pyridine N in the Ni-NC@DWC shows a positive shift (≈0.7 eV) contrasted to the NC@DWC, indicating the formation of the Ni-Nx bond.[\[42\]](#page-10-0) This result suggests electron transfer from the NC to Ni atoms, attributed to the strong metalsupport interactions between the nickel nanoparticle cores and the N-doped carbon shell. It should be noted that the incorporation of N atoms into the carbon matrix can regulate the electronic configuration of nearby carbon atoms, and generate more intrinsic defects as active sites for promoting electrocatalytic activity.[\[43\]](#page-10-0) Additionally, the self-encapsulation of Ni NPs firmly anchored into low-tortuosity porous DWC can synergistically facilitate electrocatalytic performances due to the dual-interfacial-interaction, i.e., the core-shell strong metal-support interaction and substrateactive sites interface. In Figure 2d, the Ni 2p3/2 XPS spectra show two peaks at around 852.1 and 868.6 eV, corresponding to the Ni<sup>0</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively.[\[38,44\]](#page-10-0) Compared to Ni@DWC, the binding energy of Ni 2p3/2 in Ni-NC@DWC is negatively shifted (≈1.3 eV), which can be attributed to the changed coordination environment of Ni species due to the strong metal-support interactions, further confirming the Ni─Nx bond formation.[\[45\]](#page-10-0) Compared with DWC (94.7 m<sup>2</sup>·g<sup>−</sup>1), the Ni-NC@DWC possesses a higher Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area of 179.5 m<sup>2</sup>·g<sup>−</sup>1, which can be attributed to the chitosan introduction, generating more porosities during the pyrolysis process (Figure 2e; Table S1, Supporting Information). In Figure 2f, the pore-size distribution of Ni-NC@DWC reveals the dominance of micro- /meso-pores, which enables rapid diffusion kinetics of reactants to active centers.

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Performance**

The HER performance of the synthesized electrocatalysts was evaluated in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte using a three-electrode system. The HER performance is first evaluated via the tests of linear sweep voltammetry (LSV). As demonstrated in **Figure 3**[a,b,](#page-4-0) the Ni-NC@DWC exhibits an excellent HER activity with only 8.0 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Remarkably, Ni-NC@DWC requires an overpotential of only 17 mV to achieve the current density

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) IR-Corrected polarization curves, b) Corresponding overpotential histograms at 50 and 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of catalysts. c) Comparison with the recently reported HER activities of Ni-based catalysts. d) Tafel plots, and e) Nyquist plots. f) Long-term stability of Ni-NC@DWC at 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH. Inset is a water electrolysis device with a Ni-NC@DWC electrode.

of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is much lower than those of Ni@DWC (131 mV), Pt/C (141 mV), and NC@DWC (454 mV). Moreover, Ni-NC@DWC demonstrates the overpotentials of 24 and 49 mV to attain high current densities of 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> respectively, which much outperform those of recently reported Ni-based electrocatalysts and commercial Pt/C catalysts (Figure 3c; Table S3, Supporting Information). The Tafel slopes originated from the polarization curve of LSV are served to assess the HER kinetics. As illustrated in Figure 3d, the Ni-NC@DWC shows a smaller Tafel slope of 26.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> than those of Ni@DWC (81.0 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1), NC@DWC (197.1 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1), and Pt/C (87.4 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1), implying the faster kinetics for HER. [\[46\]](#page-10-0) As shown in Figure 3e and Figure S15 (Supporting Information), the favorable dynamics of Ni-NC@DWC are also demonstrated by the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and electrochemical active surface area (ECSA). The Ni-NC@DWC exhibits an ECSA value of 1300 cm2, which is ≈1.5 times larger than that of Ni@DWC (880 cm2), demonstrating that the Ni-NC@DWC possesses more accessible active sites for HER.[\[47\]](#page-10-0) The mass activity of Ni-NC@DWC is 259.6 A·g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 20 mV, which is 10.1 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C catalyst (Table S5, Supporting Information). Notably, the Ni-NC@DWC exhibits a lower overpotential after ECSA normalization compared to Ni@DWC and NC@DWC (Figure S15g,i, Supporting Information), further confirming its enhanced intrinsic electrocatalytic activity for HER.[\[48\]](#page-10-0) As shown in Figure 3e and Table S6 (Supporting Information), the charge transfer resistance (Rct) of the Ni-NC@DWC electrode was only 0.17 Ω, much lower than that of Ni@DWC (17.48 Ω), indicating the faster electron transfer rate during the HER process.[\[49\]](#page-10-0) The small charge migration resistance of the Ni-NC@DWC electrode can be ascribed to its integrated structure, which combines self-encapsulated Ni NPs and its intimate bonding to the substrate, ensuring ion/electron rapid transfer. In addition, the current density of Ni-NC@DWC maintains 99% of its initial activity after successive operations at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 100 h (Figure 3f). The SEM, XPS, and XRD further indicate that the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst after a long-term cycling test still well-retains its initial microstructure/morphology and chemical composition (Figures S16 and S17, Supporting Information).

Similarly, the OER performance of the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst was also investigated in 1.0 m KOH media. In **Figure 4**[a,b,](#page-5-0) the Ni-NC@DWC electrode affords the best OER activity with overpotentials of 211 and 377 mV at 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively among all the catalysts. The Ni-NC@DWC also exhibits the lowest overpotential after ECSA normalization (Figure S15h,i, Supporting Information), further confirming its enhanced intrinsic electrocatalytic activity for OER. The Tafel slope of Ni-NC@DWC was determined to be 42.3 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1, lower than those of the Ni@DWC (57.2 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1), commercial RuO2 (59.6 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1), and NC@DWC (145.8 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1). Figure [4d](#page-5-0) further reveals that the Ni-NC@DWC possesses a minimum charge resistance among all the electrodes, suggesting the fastest electron migration rate at the electrolyte-electrode interface for the Ni-NC@DWC during the OER process. Furthermore, the OER was replaced with urea oxidation reaction (UOR) for energy-saving hydrogen production. In Figure [4e,f,](#page-5-0) the Ni-NC@DWC electrode

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) IR-Corrected polarization curves, b) corresponding overpotential histograms at 10 and 100 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2, c) Tafel plots, and d) Nyquist plots of catalysts for OER in 1.0 m KOH. e) IR-corrected polarization curves and f) corresponding overpotential histograms at 10 and 100 mA·cm−<sup>2</sup> of catalysts for UOR in 1.0 m KOH + 0.33 m Urea. g) IR-corrected polarization curves of the Ni-NC@DWC in different electrolytes. h) Comparison with the recently reported UOR activities of nickel-based catalysts. i) Long-term stability of the Ni-NC@DWC at 100 mA·cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH + 0.33 m Urea.

also delivers the best UOR activity with potentials of 1.233 and 1.244 V at 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> respectively, among all the catalysts. Notably, the required overpotential of Ni-NC@DWC for UOR is 363 mV lower than that of OER (1.607 V) at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> due to the very favorable kinetics of UOR (Figure 4g), which is superior to that of the recently reported nickel-based electrocatalysts (Figure 4h; Table S7, Supporting Information). As depicted in Figure 4i, the chronoamperometric tests demonstrate that the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst maintains initial activity of 98% over 100 h durability test at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for the UOR, confirming its high stability. Moreover, the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst demonstrates microstructural integrity after the UOR except that the surface becomes slightly rougher than that of the initial state (Figure S18, Supporting Information). This change can be attributed to the formation of Ni─OOH species on the catalyst surface during the UOR process, as confirmed by the XRD (Figure S19f, Supporting Information). Further analysis of surface composition by XPS reveals the appearance of high valent Ni during the UOR, corresponding to the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> at 859.1 and 875.9 eV in the Ni─OOH (Figure S19b, Supporting Information).[\[50\]](#page-11-0) This result can be supported by a new peak for the Ni─O bond at 531.8 eV in the O 1s spectrum (Figure S19e, Supporting Information).[\[51\]](#page-11-0) Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) delivers a pronounced oxygen defect peak at g = 2.003,[\[52\]](#page-11-0) indicating the reconstruction of Ni-core NPs surface to generate Ni─OOH. Generally, oxygen defects will favor to generation of abundant spin-polarized electrons and reduce the reaction energy barrier of UOR intermediates, accelerating the UOR kinetic process.[\[53\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the post-UOR stability measurements of Ni-NC@DWC show a resistance value of 3.1 Ω and water contact angle of ≈0° (Figure S19h,g, Supporting Information), nearly identical to the initial values, confirming its excellent electrical conductivity and hydrophilicity.

Motivated by the outstanding performance of both UOR and HER, a two-electrode electrolyzer was fabricated by utilizing Ni-NC@DWC as a bifunctional electrocatalyst (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-6-0). The

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Schematic diagram of a two-electrode electrolyzer. b) Water splitting and urea-assisted water splitting performance of Ni-NC@DWC. c) Comparison with the recently reported urea-assisted water-splitting activities of Ni-based catalysts. d) Long-term stability of Ni-NC@DWC at 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH + 0.33 m urea solution. Inset is an electrolysis device with Ni-NC@DWC electrodes. e) Polarization curves and f) Corresponding overpotential histograms at 500, 1000, and 2000 mA·cm−<sup>2</sup> of Ni-NC@DWC||Ni-NC@DWC AEM electrolyzer recorded in 1.0 m KOH + 0.33 m Urea; the electrode size: 1 × 1 × 0.05 cm3. g) Long-term stability of the Ni-NC@DWC||Ni-NC@DWC AEM electrolyzer at 1000 and 2000 mA·cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH + 0.33 m Urea.

electrolyzer of Ni-NC@DWC allows H2 production at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a cell voltage of 1.13 V, which is 450 mV lower than that of conventional water-splitting (Figure 5b). This activity is better than most reported bifunctional non-precious catalysts (Figure 5c). Moreover, the Ni-NC@DWC||Ni-NC@DWC electrolyzer possesses extraordinary durability at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> over 1,000 h for urea-assisted water splitting, much surpassing most lately reported inexpensive metal-based electrocatalysts (Table S8, Supporting Information). The remarkable stability of Ni-NC@DWC can be ascribed to its unique porous integrated structure and self-encapsulation of Ni NPs with strong metalsupport interactions. Moreover, this hybrid water electrolysis system can stably generate H2 during continuous operation for 30 h with extensive gas bubbles generated on the anodic and cathodic

electrodes (Video S2, Supporting Information), indicating the practically effective method by urea oxidation-assisting the H2 production (inset of Figure 5d). In addition, unlike powdered catalysts, the Ni-NC@DWC can be directly assembled into an anion exchange membrane (AEM) electrolyzer without the need for additional gas diffusion electrodes (GDEs) due to its unique monolithic 3D structure and nitrogen-doped carbon encapsulated coatings, which can optimize gas-liquid interfaces and maximize the mass transfer capability, thus avoiding the use of inactive components in the electrode fabrication process and reducing additional costs (Figure 5e). The Ni-NC@DWC//Ni-NC@DWC AEM electrolyzer exhibits excellent electrocatalytic performance by requiring only 1.62 V at an industrial-grade current density of 2000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 5f), indicating its great potential for practical

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** In situ FT-IR spectra of a) Ni@DWC and b) Ni-NC@DWC at different voltages. c) Schematic for competing adsorption of urea and hydroxyl on Ni-NC@DWC surface. In situ Raman spectra of Ni-NC@DWC at different voltages, during the d) OER and e) UOR respectively, and f) coupled reaction system at different times at 1.3 V versus RHE. g) In situ Raman spectra of Ni-NC@DWC during the HER from OCP to ≈0.4 V versus RHE. h) Schematic illustration of the electronic coupling between Ni and N.

application toward highly efficient energy-saving H2 production. Moreover, this AEM electrolyzer showed no obvious performance degradation during 150 consecutive hours of ureaassisted water splitting at 2000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [5g\)](#page-6-0), which further confirmed its excellent stability and broad industrial application prospect. As shown in Figure S20a–c (Supporting Information), the Faraday efficiency (FE) of urea-assisted water splitting was calculated by comparing the ratio of actual H2 and N2 production.[\[54\]](#page-11-0) Obviously, the amount of evolved H2 and N2 can well meet the theoretical value, suggesting the FE is nearly 100%. Similarly, the concentration of urea in the electrolyzer diminishes over time, ultimately reaching a conversion rate close to ≈100% (Figure S20d–f, Supporting Information).

#### **2.3. Study of Reaction Mechanism**

To gain more insights into the UOR mechanism, in situ Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was performed in **Figure 6**a,b. Compared to the Ni@DWC catalyst, the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst exhibits higher characteristic signals of urea molecules as the potential increases.[\[55,56\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, a more remarkable peak at 2168 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of NCO intermediate was observed from the beginning of 1.2 V for the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst than that of the Ni@DWC catalyst (Figure 6c).[\[57\]](#page-11-0) Two characteristic peaks at 2340 and 2363 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of the produced CO2 also appeared at a lower potential of ≈1.4 V for Ni-NC@DWC catalyst compared to Ni@DWC.[\[58\]](#page-11-0) These results indicate that the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst has stronger adsorption and faster reaction kinetics for

urea molecules than the Ni@DWC catalyst. Additionally, a broad peak at 2823 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is attributed to the O─H bond vibration in the COOH intermediate,[\[59\]](#page-11-0) implying hydroxide ions (OH<sup>−</sup>) prefer to form \*COOH intermediates through C─N bond cleavage rather than participate in OER on the catalyst surface (Figure [6c\)](#page-7-0). The O─H bond intensity for the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst is obviously higher than that of the Ni@DWC catalyst as a potential rise, indicating the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst has a better catalytic performance for UOR than that uncoated Ni NPs catalyst. Further, in situ, Raman spectroscopy was also carried out to investigate the surface reconstruction process of the Ni-NC@DWC catalyst during UOR. As shown in Figure [6d,](#page-7-0) two distinct peaks at 480 and 560 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponding to the signals of the Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O vibration are observed,[\[60\]](#page-11-0) when anodic potential increased to 1.3 V in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte, while no remarkable signals of the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>- O vibration are found after added 0.33 m urea in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte (Figure [6e\)](#page-7-0), indicating introduction of urea leads to the conversion of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. [\[61](#page-11-0)] This is further evidenced by the appearance of the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O signal peaks at 1.3 V in the KOH electrolyte (Figure [6f\)](#page-7-0), however, it disappeared when 0.33 m urea was added after 400 s. These observations strongly suggest that the dynamic active sites occurred on the Ni-NC@DWC surface (Figure [6h\)](#page-7-0), suggesting that the dynamically generated Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O species as real active sites for UOR.[\[62–64\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the peak at 238 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> belongs to the stretching vibration mode of the Ni-Nx structure (Figure [6g\)](#page-7-0),[\[65\]](#page-11-0) which gradually increases with the negative increase of the applied potential, implying that there is a strong electron transfer between Ni core and N-doped carbon shells due to the strong metal-support interactions (Figure [6h\)](#page-7-0), suggesting that Ni-Nx is the true HER active site.

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to further disclose the strong interfacial interaction between the Ni NPs and the N-doped carbon shells during HER and UOR. The optimized models of Ni, NC, and Ni-NC were constructed in **Figure 7**[a–c.](#page-9-0) As shown in Figure [7d,](#page-9-0) the charge density of Ni-NC demonstrates the formation of an electrophilic/nucleophilic region at the core-shell interfaces, which will facilitate the adsorption of electron-donating/electron-withdrawing groups and activate urea decomposition,[\[66\]](#page-11-0) thus improving the UOR activity. The density of electronic states (DOS) calculations of different samples is shown in Figure [7e.](#page-9-0) The DOS at the Fermi level of Ni-NC is higher than Ni, NC, and Ni-C, indicating an enhanced intrinsic conductivity and synergistic effect.[\[67\]](#page-11-0) Further, the Dband center of Ni in Ni-NC (−1.28 eV) is closer to the Fermi level compared to Ni-C (−1.44 eV) and pure Ni (−1.48 eV), indicating the upshift of the d-band center of Ni for the Ni-NC (Figure [7f\)](#page-9-0). This d-band center upshift will significantly enhance the adsorption dynamics and reduce the energy barriers of key reaction intermediates.[\[68\]](#page-11-0) In Figure [7g,](#page-9-0) the energy barrier of water dissociation on the Ni-NC surface is only 0.43 eV compared with 1.53, 0.68, and 0.58 eV for NC, Ni, and Ni-C respectively, indicating the N-doped carbon-coated Ni NPs can promote water splitting due to the strong electronic interaction at the coreshell interface.[\[69\]](#page-11-0) It also exhibits a Gibbs free energy of hydrogen (△GH\*) of 0.04 eV extremely close to zero, much lower than those of NC (0.33 eV), Ni (0.25 eV), and Ni-C (0.07 eV), suggesting the best catalytic activity for HER (Figure [7h\)](#page-9-0).[\[70\]](#page-11-0) As shown in Figure [7i,](#page-9-0) the dehydrogenation of CONHN\* to CON2 \* was identified as the rate-determining step (RDS) for the UOR. Compared to control samples, the Ni-NC delivers the lowest RDS energy barrier of 1.17 eV. Such self-encapsulation of Ni NPs with a strong metal-support interaction can significantly reduce the activation energy of the RDS, thereby boosting the UOR process. The DFT calculations disclose that the formation of N-doped carbon shell can not only optimize the electronic configuration of Ni NPs, but also provide strong metal-support interaction to synergistically improve the catalytic performance.

In short, the superior electrocatalytic performance of Ni-NC@DWC is primarily attributed to its unique 3D integrated structure design and the strong metal-support interactions. i) The DWC as a 3D self-supporting conductive skeleton with a low-tortuous hierarchically porous structure facilitates gas/mass fast transport and exposes more active sites of Ni species; ii) The self-encapsulation of Ni NPs results in the strong metalsupport interaction with dual effects of electron and confinement, thereby enhancing catalytic activity and stability; iii) The in situ techniques and DFT calculations indicate that the surface reconstruction and self-encapsulation of Ni NPs optimize the electronic configuration, reduce adsorption/desorption energy barriers of intermediates, and result in an upshift of the d-band center of Ni. These combined features allow an outstanding performance of urea-assisted hydrogen production for the Ni-NC@DWC, marking it as a highly promising electrocatalyst for practical water electrolysis. Moreover, our strategy of the chitosan-induced self-encapsulation of lattice-distorted Ni NPs with strong metal-support interactions can be also applied to other metal and alloy-supported electrocatalysts (e.g., Co, Fe, and NiFe alloy, Figures S23–S26, Supporting Information) for highly effective hydrogen production from water electrolysis. Compared to recently representative reports,[\[13,20,29–31\]](#page-10-0) the novelty of this work is briefly summarized as follows: 1) Self-encapsulation of the lattice-distorted Ni NPs induced by chitosan grown on delignified wood carbon serves as a cost-effective and robust electrode material without the need for additional current collectors or conductive additives/binders due to its strong bonding to the supporting substrate and the excellent electrical conductivity. 2) Such lattice distortion originated from the interfacial interaction between the N-doped carbon layer and the surface of the Ni NPs, resulting in an upshift of the d-band center. This, in turn, accelerates electron transfer and enhances the adsorption/desorption of reaction intermediates. 3) This study not only highlights a general approach for the construction of a highly promising water electrolysis catalyst but also demonstrates a new route to achieve high-performance AEM electrolyzers for industrial H2 production coupled with wastewater purification simultaneously.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have developed lattice distorted Ni NPs encapsulated within N-doped carbon shell grown on delignified wood carbon (Ni-NC@DWC) toward highly effective urea-assisted H2 generation at high current densities. When tested in alkaline media, it requires low potentials for HER (E50/100 = 17/24 mV) and UOR (E100/200 = 1.244/1.251 V), and displays excellent stability for operation of 100 h at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. When evaluated in the HER+UOR coupled system, it demonstrates a low cell voltage of 1.13 V at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is 450 mV lower than the 1.58 V

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 7.** Structural models of a) Ni, b) NC, and c) Ni-NC. d) Charge density of Ni-NC. e) TDOS, inset is a part of −5–5.0 eV Fermi level magnified., f) Ni d-band center, g) energy barriers of water dissociation, h) ΔGH\*, and i) free energy diagrams of different samples for UOR.

required for conventional water splitting. Moreover, it also exhibits robust durability, maintaining 97% of its initial activity at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for over 1000 h, indicating great potential for commercial applications. Furthermore, when it is self-assembled as an AEM electrolyzer, it requires only 1.62 V at 2000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for urea-assisted water splitting and operates stably for 150 h without degradation. This self-encapsulation of Ni NPs coupled with strong metal-support interaction leads to the lattice distortion and charge reconstruction of Ni NPs surface, resulting in significantly enhanced electrocatalytic activity of Ni-NC@DWC for HER, UOR, and hybrid water electrolysis. Furthermore, the cyclically dynamically active center Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O contributes to the efficient UOR. The DFT calculations reveal that it greatly decreases the water dissociation energy and optimizes the adsorption/desorption of UOR/HER intermediates on the active sites. We believe that the strategy of self-encapsulated Ni NPs coupled with strong metal-support interactions is applicable to other metal and alloysupported electrocatalysts for cost-effective, sustainable, and scalable energy-saving hydrogen production.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22076049), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2024YFE0101500), Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2024A1515010333), <span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2025, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202414935 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

and Guangzhou Science and Technology Program (202201010063). [Correction added on October 14, 2024, after first online publication: Figure [3](#page-4-0) has been updated in this version.]

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

delignified wood carbon, hierarchical porosity, metal-support interactions, self-encapsulated, urea-assisted hydrogen production

> Received: August 15, 2024 Revised: September 25, 2024 Published online: October 8, 2024

- [1] J. Jiang, X.-L. Zhou, H.-G. Lv, H.-Q. Yu, Y. Yu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2212160.
- [2] F. O. Boakye, M. G. Sendeku, A. Kumar, S. Ajmal, K. A. Owusu, K. B. Ibrahim, M. Tabish, F. u. Zaman, M. A. Mushtaq, K. M. Alotaibi, M. Z. Ansari, G. Yasin, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2024**, *352*, 124013.
- [3] R. Li, Y. Li, P. Yang, P. Ren, D. Wang, X. Lu, H. Zhang, Z. Zhang, P. Yan, J. Zhang, M. An, B. Wang, H. Liu, S. Dou, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2302151.
- [4] J.-T. Ren, L. Chen, H.-Y. Wang, W.-W. Tian, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 49.
- [5] Y. Zhu, C. Liu, S. Cui, Z. Lu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, W. Shi, X. Huang, L. Xue, J. Bian, Y. Li, Y. Xu, B. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301549.
- [6] M. A. Gaikwad, V. V. Burungale, D. B. Malavekar, U. V. Ghorpade, U. P. Suryawanshi, S. Jang, X. Guo, S. W. Shin, J.-S. Ha, M. P. Suryawanshi, J. H. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2303730.
- [7] Y. Zhang, Y. Lei, Y. Yan, W. Cai, J. Huang, Y. Lai, Z. Lin, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2024**, *353*, 124064.
- [8] M. Batool, A. Hameed, M. A. Nadeem, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *480*, 215029.
- [9] M. Liu, W. Zou, S. Qiu, N. Su, J. Cong, L. Hou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2310155.
- [10] L. Yang, R. He, X. Wang, T. Yang, T. Zhang, Y. Zuo, X. Lu, Z. Liang, J. Li, J. Arbiol, P. R. Martínez-Alanis, X. Qi, A. Cabot, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *115*, 108714.
- [11] J. Wang, S. Xin, Y. Xiao, Z. Zhang, Z. Li, W. Zhang, C. Li, R. Bao, J. Peng, J. Yi, S. Chou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202202518.
- [12] Z. Cui, W. Jiao, Z. Huang, G. Chen, B. Zhang, Y. Han, W. Huang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2301465.
- [13] C. Mao, Z. Shi, J. Peng, L. Ou, Y. Chen, J. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2308337.
- [14] S. Ni, H. Qu, Z. Xu, X. Zhu, H. Xing, L. Wang, J. Yu, H. Liu, C. Chen, L. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *299*, 120638.
- [15] K. Wang, W. Huang, Q. Cao, Y. Zhao, X. Sun, R. Ding, W. Lin, E. Liu, P. Gao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *427*, 130865.
- [16] C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000556.
- [17] X. Sheng, Y. Li, T. Yang, B. J. J. Timmer, T. Willhammar, O. Cheung, L. Li, C. J. Brett, S. V. Roth, B. Zhang, L. Fan, Y. Guo, X. Zou, L. Berglund, L. Sun, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2020**, *264*, 118536.

- [18] Q. Jin, B. Ren, H. Cui, C. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *283*, 119643.
- [19] Z. Lu, J. Xie, J. Hu, K. Wang, Y. Cao, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2104656.
- [20] D. I. Jeong, U. Y. Lee, H. Kim, H.-S. Bang, H. W. Choi, J. Kim, H. G. Choi, H.-S. Oh, B. K. Kang, D. H. Yoon, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2307830.
- [21] M. Huang, S. Zhou, D.-D. Ma, W. Wei, Q.-L. Zhu, Z. Huang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *473*, 145170.
- [22] P. Balasubramanian, H. Khan, J.-H. Baek, S.-H. Kwon, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *471*, 144378.
- [23] H. Chen, Y. Zou, J. Li, K. Zhang, Y. Xia, B. Hui, D. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *293*, 120215.
- [24] D. Li, H. Cheng, X. Hao, G. Yu, C. Qiu, Y. Xiao, H. Huang, Y. Lu, B. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2304917.
- [25] Z. Shi, C. Mao, L. Zhong, J. Peng, M. Liu, H. Li, J. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *339*, 123123.
- [26] Y. Wang, X. Lin, T. Liu, H. Chen, S. Chen, Z. Jiang, J. Liu, J. Huang, M. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1806207.
- [27] J. Huang, B. Zhao, T. Liu, J. Mou, Z. Jiang, J. Liu, H. Li, M. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1902255.
- [28] Y. Li, T. Gao, Y. Yao, Z. Liu, Y. Kuang, C. Chen, J. Song, S. Xu, E. M. Hitz, B. Liu, R. J. Jacob, M. R. Zachariah, G. Wang, L. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801289.
- [29] D. Li, H. Cheng, X. Hao, G. Yu, C. Qiu, Y. Xiao, H. Huang, Y. Lu, B. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2304917.
- [30] D. Li, Z. Li, Z. Chen, G. Shi, L. Wang, Z. Chen, W. Tu, R. Xia, E. I. Iwuoha, C. Liu, X. Peng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300427.
- [31] Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, P. Xing, X. Li, Q. Du, X. Fan, Z. Cai, R. Yin, Y. Yao, W. Gan, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2402391.
- [32] Y. Kwon, D. Hong, J.-H. Jang, M. Kim, S. Oh, D. Song, J. Lim, S. J. Yoo, E. Cho, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *332*, 122740.
- [33] T. Li, L. Tao, L. Xu, T. Meng, B. C. Clifford, S. Li, X. Zhao, J. Rao, F. Lin, L. Hu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2302951.
- [34] X. Xu, H. Ullah, M. Humayun, L. Li, X. Zhang, M. Bououdina, D. P. Debecker, K. Huo, D. Wang, C. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2303986.
- [35] T. Xu, H. Huang, T. Lu, Z.-J. Wang, S. Zhu, H. Jin, J. Li, X. Zhou, J.-J. Lv, S. Wang, *Carbon* **2023**, *205*, 207.
- [36] X. Lin, J. Liu, X. Qiu, B. Liu, X. Wang, L. Chen, Y. Qin, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202306333.
- [37] Z. Li, S. Ji, H. Liu, C. Xu, C. Guo, X. Lu, H. Sun, S. Dou, S. Xin, J. H. Horton, C. He, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *n/a*, 2314444.
- [38] S. Liang, Q. Jiang, Q. Wang, Y. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2101477.
- [39] D.-H. Wu, M. Ul Haq, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, F. Yang, A.-J. Wang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *662*, 149.
- [40] M. Ayiania, M. Smith, A. J. R. Hensley, L. Scudiero, J.-S. McEwen, M. Garcia-Perez, *Carbon* **2020**, *162*, 528.
- [41] Z.-F. Jiang, F.-M. Tian, K.-M. Fang, Z.-G. Wang, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, A.-J. Wang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2025**, *677*, 718.
- [42] X. Li, W. Bi, M. Chen, Y. Sun, H. Ju, W. Yan, J. Zhu, X. Wu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 14889.
- [43] J. Zhu, M. Xiao, G. Li, S. Li, J. Zhang, G. Liu, L. Ma, T. Wu, J. Lu, A. Yu, D. Su, H. Jin, S. Wang, Z. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903003.
- [44] J.-C. Gan, Z.-F. Jiang, K.-M. Fang, X.-S. Li, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, A.-J. Wang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2025**, *677*, 221.
- [45] Y. Xie, T. Xiong, C. Li, H. Shi, C. Zhou, F. Luo, Z. Yang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *652*, 41.
- [46] O. Van der Heijden, S. Park, R. E. Vos, J. J. J. Eggebeen, M. T. M. Koper, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2024**, *9*, 1871.
- [47] C. Wei, S. Sun, D. Mandler, X. Wang, S. Z. Qiao, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, 2518.
- [48] S. Anantharaj, V. Aravindan, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1902666.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2025, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202414935 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [49] B. L. Corso, I. Perez, T. Sheps, P. C. Sims, O. T. Gül, P. G. Collins, *Nano Lett.* **2014**, *14*, 1329.
- [50] C.-F. Du, K. N. Dinh, Q. Liang, Y. Zheng, Y. Luo, J. Zhang, Q. Yan, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801127.
- [51] V. T. T. Phan, Q. P. Nguyen, B. Wang, I. J. Burgess, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 4830.
- [52] Y. Mao, P. Wang, L. Li, Z. Chen, H. Wang, Y. Li, S. Zhan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 3685.
- [53] Y. Tong, P. Chen, M. Zhang, T. Zhou, L. Zhang, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 1.
- [54] Y. Zhou, B. Chu, Z. Sun, L. Dong, F. Wang, B. Li, M. Fan, Z. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *323*, 122168.
- [55] W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y.-C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C.-L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7297.
- [56] S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [57] L. Wang, S. Zhu, N. Marinkovic, S. Kattel, M. Shao, B. Yang, J. G. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2018**, *232*, 365.
- [58] C. Cai, B. Liu, K. Liu, P. Li, J. Fu, Y. Wang, W. Li, C. Tian, Y. Kang, A. Stefancu, H. Li, C.-W. Kao, T.-S. Chan, Z. Lin, L. Chai, E. Cortés, M. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202212640.
- [59] Y. Wang, T. Ge, C. Cai, J. Xu, *Fuel* **2024**, *367*, 131539.

- [60] J. Hu, T. Guo, X. Zhong, J. Li, Y. Mei, C. Zhang, Y. Feng, M. Sun, L. Meng, Z. Wang, B. Huang, L. Zhang, Z. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2310918.
- [61] Z. Yang, B. Zhang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *330*, 122590.
- [62] M. Cai, Q. Zhu, X. Wang, Z. Shao, L. Yao, H. Zeng, X. Wu, J. Chen, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209338.
- [63] X. Gao, X. Bai, P. Wang, Y. Jiao, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 5842.
- [64] L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 10577.
- [65] F. Luo, S. Pan, Y. Xie, C. Li, Y. Yu, Z. Yang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *90*, 1.
- [66] M. Zhong, M. Xu, S. Ren, W. Li, C. Wang, M. Gao, X. Lu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 1984.
- [67] M.-W. Gu, C.-T. Lai, I.-C. Ni, C.-I. Wu, C.-h. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202214963.
- [68] X. Wang, S. Li, Z. Yuan, Y. Sun, Z. Tang, X. Gao, H. Zhang, J. Li, S. Wang, D. Yang, J. Xie, Z. Yang, Y.-M. Yan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202303794.
- [69] J. Zhang, T. Wang, P. Liu, Z. Liao, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, M. Chen, E. Zschech, X. Feng, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15437.
- [70] Q. Zhou, C. Xu, J. Hou, W. Ma, T. Jian, S. Yan, H. Liu, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 95.