---
source: Singh 等 - 2015 - Catalytic Activity and Impedance Behavior of Screen‐Printed Nickel Oxide as Efficient Water Oxidatio.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 41.413s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:28:40.567928Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201500835 Full Papers

# Catalytic Activity and Impedance Behavior of Screen-Printed Nickel Oxide as Efficient Water Oxidation Catalysts

Archana Singh,\*[a, b, c] Monika Fekete,[a, b] Thomas Gengenbach, [d] Alexandr N. Simonov, [a, b] Rosalie K. Hocking,[a, b, e] Shery L. Y. Chang,[a] Mathias Rothmann,[f] Satvasheel Powar,[a] Dongchuan Fu,[f] Zheng Hu, [g] Qiang Wu, [g] Yi-Bing Cheng, [f, g] Udo Bach,[d, f, h] and Leone Spiccia\*[a, b]

We report that films screen printed from nickel oxide (NiO) nanoparticles and microballs are efficient electrocatalysts for water oxidation under near-neutral and alkaline conditions. Investigations of the composition and structure of the screenprinted films by X-ray diffraction, X-ray absorption spectroscopy, and scanning electron microscopy confirmed that the material was present as the cubic NiO phase. Comparison of the catalytic activity of the microball films to that of films fabricated by using NiO nanoparticles, under similar experimental conditions, revealed that the microball films outperform nanoparticle films of similar thickness owing to a more porous structure and higher surface area. A thinner, less-resistive NiO nanoparticle film, however, was found to have higher activity per Ni atom. Anodization in borate buffer significantly improved the activity of all three films. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy showed that during anodization, a mixed nickel oxyhydroxide phase formed on the surface of all films, which could account for the improved activity. Impedance spectroscopy revealed that surface traps contribute significantly to the resistance of the NiO films. On anodization, the trap state resistance of all films was reduced, which led to significant improvements in activity. In 1.00m NaOH, both the microball and nanoparticle films exhibit high long-term stability and produce a stable current density of approximately 30 mAcm¢<sup>2</sup> at 600 mV overpotential.

## Introduction

The potential of solar water splitting (2H2O!O2+2H<sup>2</sup> ) to provide a cheap and abundant source of renewable energy is stimulating interest in the development of materials that catalyze two key processes: water oxidation and proton reduction.[1,2] In recent years, water oxidation catalysts based on cheap and abundant first-row transition series metal ions, such as Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni, have been attracting much attention.[3–26] Among the materials from first-row transition series metal ions, nickel oxyhydroxides have been shown to be very promising electrocatalysts.[3,6,27–32] Nocera and co-workers recently reported the electrodeposition of g-NiOOH from borate-buffered aqueous Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> solutions (pH 9.20)[3] and showed that the films oxidized water at moderate overpotentials.

We recently demonstrated that uniform nickel oxyhydroxide films can be electrochemically deposited from solutions of the tris(1,2-diaminoethane)nickel(II) complex, [Ni(en)<sup>3</sup> ] 2+ . [33] These films were shown to have higher electroactive surface area and catalytic activity relative to the corresponding films derived from Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> under similar experimental conditions.[33] In general, the NiO films that have been used as water oxidation catalysts

- [a] Dr. A. Singh, Dr. M. Fekete, A. N. Simonov, Dr. R. K. Hocking, Dr. S. L. Y. Chang, Dr. S. Powar, Prof. Dr. L. Spiccia School of Chemistry Monash University Victoria, 3800 (Australia) E-mail: archanas002@gmail.com leone.spiccia@monash.edu
- [b] Dr. A. Singh, Dr. M. Fekete, A. N. Simonov, Dr. R. K. Hocking, Prof. Dr. L. Spiccia Australian Centre of Excellence for Electromaterials Science Monash University Victoria, 3800 (Australia)
- [c] Dr. A. Singh Advanced Materials and Processing Research Institute CSIR Bhopal (India)
- [d] T. Gengenbach, Prof. Dr. U. Bach Manufacturing Flagship, CSIRO Clayton, Victoria 3168 (Australia)

- [e] Dr. R. K. Hocking School of Chemistry James Cook University Townsville, Queensland, 4811 (Australia)
- [f] M. Rothmann, Dr. D. Fu, Prof. Dr. Y.-B. Cheng, Prof. Dr. U. Bach Department of Materials Science and Engineering Monash University Victoria, 3800 (Australia)
- [g] Z. Hu, Q. Wu, Prof. Dr. Y.-B. Cheng Key Lab of Mesoscopic Chemistry of MOE School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Nanjing University Nanjing 210093 (PR China)
- [h] Prof. Dr. U. Bach Melbourne Centre for Nanofabrication Clayton, Victoria 3168 (Australia)
- Supporting Information for this article is available on the WWW under [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201500835.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201500835)

# Full Papers

have been deposited by using either electrochemical or sol– gel methods.[30–32] Although these methods are facile, electrodeposition can suffer from a nonuniform rate of mass transport to the electrode surface, which results in the growth of inhomogeneous films, and it can also be difficult to control film thickness, for which catalysis and deposition occur in parallel. Sol–gel processing is often limited in the thickness of films that can be deposited and the films may not necessarily be ideal for catalytic applications. Screen printing, on the other hand, is a cost-effective alternative for fabricating films with controlled thickness and area with high reproducibility. We, and others, have shown that manganese oxides can be efficiently screen printed and exhibit excellent water oxidation activity over a variety of experimental conditions.[14,34–37]

Screen-printed NiO microball films with high surface area and optimum optical properties have been successfully implemented in p-type dye-sensitized cells and have been shown to achieve photocurrent densities of 7 mAcm¢<sup>2</sup> under 1 sunlight intensity. [34] To the best of our knowledge, however, screenprinted NiO films have not been studied as electrocatalysts for the water oxidation reaction. Herein, we report an investigation of the catalytic activity of screen-printed NiO in which the films derived from microballs (NiO-MB) and nanoparticles (NiO-NP) are compared under similar experimental conditions. The composition, structure, and morphology of the screen-printed films were studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area analysis, and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and the catalytic activity was investigated by linear scan voltammetry (LSV), controlled potential electrolysis, and evolved oxygen quantification.

#### Results and Discussion

NiO microballs were synthesized by a thermolysis method, as previously described,[34] whereas the nanoparticles were obtained commercially. The NiO microballs have a porous spherical morphology, with each sphere having a diameter of approximately 3 mm. Powder XRD measurements confirmed that both the NiO microballs and commercial powder have the cubic NiO structure, in agreement with previous work.[26] The films were printed on fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) glass by using a commercial semiautomatic screen printer following an established procedure.[34] The thickness of a single layered NiO-MB film, measured by using stylus profilometry, was 3.1 mm. For comparison, a NiO-NP film of similar thickness (2.8 mm) and the single-layered NiO-NP1 films (thickness: 0.8 mm) were also printed (see Table 1). The surface area of the sintered NiO-MB was approximately 16% higher than that of the sintered NiO-NP (Table 1).[34] Inductively coupled plasma-time of flight-mass spectrometry (ICP-TOF-MS) was used to quantify the amount of Ni present per square centimeter of geometric electrode area. Although the NiO-MB films are slightly thicker than the NiO-NP films, owing to their more porous structure, they contain less Ni, 0.45 mgNi cm¢<sup>2</sup> compared to 1.1 mgNi cm¢<sup>2</sup> for NiO-NP. The single-layered NiO-NP1 film contained 0.33 mgNi cm¢<sup>2</sup>

The three printed catalyst films were used to study catalytic activity in water oxidation. The catalytic activity in 0.60m aqueous sodium borate buffer solution was assessed by LSV, at a scan rate of 20 mVs ¢1 , in a standard three-electrode cell comprising the NiO films as working electrodes, a Pt counter electrode, and a AgjAgCljKCl (3m) (hereinafter, Ag/AgCl) reference electrode. The films were tested as freshly made (Figure 1, full lines) and were then subjected to constant potential electrolysis (CPE) for 12 h at an overpotential (h) for water oxidation of approximately 0.62 V (1.10 V vs. Ag/AgCl at pH 9.20). {h; calculated as the difference between the potential applied to the electrode and the standard electrode potential for the water oxidation reaction, which is pH dependent according to E 0= 1.23–0.059·pH V vs. normal hydrogen electrode}.This treatment is further referred to as anodization, or electrode ageing, and typical current transients are shown in the insets of Figures 1 and 2. The activities of the anodized films were then once again tested by LSV (Figure 1, dashed lines). To compare the catalytic efficiencies of the three films in terms of catalytic activity per Ni center, the results of the electrochemical performance analysis are presented both scaled to the geometric electrode surface area (Figure 1 A) and to the Ni content of each film (Figure 1 B). The LSV scans of the three fresh films show an onset potential for water oxidation at approximately 0.90 V versus Ag/AgCl (corresponding to h0.42 V) right after a voltammetric peak associated with oxidation of the surfaceconfined Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species.[6] Figure 1 A shows that the highest activity was achieved by the NiO-NP film, followed by the thin NiO-NP1 film, whereas the NiO-MB film had the lowest activity upon scaling to geometric surface area. In comparison, per Ni

Table 1. Turnover frequency, BET surface area,[27] and calculated relative electrochemical surface areas of NiO-MB, NiO-NP, and NiO-NP1 before and after anodization in 0.60m borate buffer solution (pH 9.20).

| Film    | [a]<br>Thickness<br>[mm] | [b]<br>Ni content<br>[mgcm¢2<br>]<br>fresh |    | [c]<br>O2<br>production<br>¢1<br>¢1<br>[molO2<br>molNi,<br>h<br>]<br>active site<br>anodized | BET surface area[d]<br>[m2g<br>¢1<br>] | [e]<br>Aechem<br>2<br>¢2<br>[cme<br>cmg<br>] |
|---------|--------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| NiO-MB  | 3.2                      | 0.45                                       | 8  | 10                                                                                           | 65                                     | 292                                          |
| NiO-NP  | 2.8                      | 1.1                                        | 6  | 8                                                                                            | 56                                     | 610                                          |
| NiO-NP1 | 0.8                      | 0.33                                       | 13 | 17                                                                                           | 56                                     | 184                                          |

[a] Thickness was measured by profilometry. [b] Ni content was measured by ICP-TOF-MS. [c] Oxygen production was measured in 0.60m borate buffer (pH 9.20) at 1.00 V versus Ag/AgCl (h=0.52 V) over 1 h by using a NeoFox fluorescence-quenching oxygen sensor. [d] Surface area was measured by BET analysis. [e] Aechem was calculated on the basis of the BET and ICP-TOF-MS data; see Equation (1).

**Figure 1.** LSV curves of A) fresh NiO-MB (——), NiO-NP (——), NiO-NP1 (——), anodized NiO-MB (-----), anodized NiO-NP (-----), and anodized NiO-NP1 (-----) films in 0.60 м borate buffer recorded at scan rate of 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Inset shows the CPE graph for NiO-MB, NiO-NP, and NiO-NP1 films in 0.60 м borate buffer (pH 9.20) at 1.10 V versus Ag/AgCl ( $\eta$  = 0.62 V) continuously for 12 h. B) Data in panel A is shown scaled against the Ni content of each film.

atom, the thin NiO-NP1 film achieved the highest activity (Figure 1B). This implies that, whereas thicker films benefit from a larger electrochemical surface area, this advantage is outweighed by an increase in film resistance and/or hindered mass transport. This supposition is in agreement with Bell and Yeo, who reported that the catalytic activity of nickel oxyhydroxide films, deposited on a gold substrate, decreases sharply with increasing film thickness. Dyer also discussed that a denser loading of NiO may cause a blockage effect that is reflected in a decrease in the catalytic efficiency as the NiO $_{\rm x}$  loading increases. Discussed in the catalytic efficiency as the NiO $_{\rm x}$  loading increases.

The NiO-MB film outperformed the NiO-NP film of similar thickness. A possible reason for this could be that more Ni centers are accessible to the water substrate in the porous NiO-MB film and also that the protons generated from water oxidation can be transported away from the reaction centers more efficiently by the buffer solution than in the case of the compact NiO-NP film. The activity of NiO<sub>x</sub> films was previously shown to increase significantly on anodization as a result of the conversion of NiO into a phase that is more active in water oxidation catalysis.<sup>[3]</sup> To examine whether anodization affects the catalytic activity of these NiO films, long-term testing of the NiO-MB, NiO-NP, and NiO-NP1 electrodes was performed at 1.10 V versus Ag/AgCl in 0.60 M borate buffer (pH 9.20), which

Figure 2. LSV curves of A) NiO-MB (——), NiO-NP (——), and NiO-NP1 (——) films in 1.00 м NaOH recorded at 1.00 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. B) LSV data in panel a scaled against the Ni content of films. Inset shows the CPE for NiO-MB (——), NiO-NP (——), and NiO-NP1 (——) films in 1.00 м NaOH recorded at 0.80 V versus Ag/AgCl ( $\eta$  ≈ 0.60 V).

186454x, 2015, 24, Dowloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiely.com/doi/10.1002/cssc201500835 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses.

corresponds to  $\eta\!=\!0.62$  V, for a continuous period of 12 h (insets of Figure 1 A and B). It is clear from the data that the water oxidation current recorded for the NiO-MB films nearly doubled in the first hour and was found to be stable over the rest of the 12 h testing period. Similarly, the activity of the NiO-NP1 films increased rapidly in the first hour (by  $\approx\!50\,\%$ ) and then stabilized.

The current density obtained from the NiO-NP films increased significantly over a period of approximately 8 h of CPE, and resulted in a threefold improvement in activity (see Figure 1 A inset). The anodization current profile of the NiO-NP film may differ from those of the other two films because of the larger amount of NiO present in the compact film and a slower transformation into a catalytically more active phase. Partial oxidation of the films is further indicated by a diminution in the oxidation peaks clearly visible in the LSV scans of all fresh films just below the onset potential ( $\approx 0.80 \, \text{V}$  vs. Ag/AgCl). Phase transformation to a mixed nickel oxide—hydroxide was later confirmed by XPS studies (see below). Importantly, the robustness of the screen-printed films under extended testing is demonstrated by the fact that the films functioned

www.chemsuschem.org

as water oxidation catalysts continuously for 12 h, producing highly stable currents.

To confirm that the observed current was due to water oxidation, the amount of evolved oxygen by a NiO-MB film was measured by using an Ocean Optics fluorescence-based oxygen sensor. Over a period of 1 h at pH 9.20 and an applied bias of 1.10 V (vs. Ag/AgCl), enough charge was passed to produce 7.7 mmol of oxygen, whereas 7.2 mmol was measured experimentally, corresponding to a Faradaic efficiency of 94% (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The Tafel slopes, determined by stepwise chronoamperometry (Figure S2), were found to be (1112), (1162), and (992) mVdecade¢<sup>1</sup> for the NiO-MB, NiO-NP, and NiO-NP1 films, respectively. These results are in agreement with those reported previously for active NiO electrocatalysts (120 mVdecade¢<sup>1</sup> ).[30,32]

The fact that NiO<sup>x</sup> films are efficient water oxidation catalysts in alkaline media led to an assessment of the performance of the NiO-MB and NiO-NP films in 1.00m NaOH (Figure 2).[30,38, 40] The LSV curves of the NiO-MB and NiO-NP films show an onset of water oxidation at 0.60 V versus Ag/AgCl, which corresponds to an overpotential of approximately 0.35 V, a significant reduction compared to h=0.41 V in the pH 9.20 borate buffer (Figure 2A and B). In a controlled potential electrolysis experiment at h0.60 V (0.80 V vs. Ag/AgCl in 1.00m NaOH), stable current densities of 29 and 33 mAcm¢<sup>2</sup> were measured over hours for the NiO-MB and NiO-NP1 films, respectively (see Figure 2 A, inset); this corresponds to turnover frequencies (TOFs) of 15 and 18 (molecules of O<sup>2</sup> produced per Ni center per hour) of NiO-MB and NiO-NP1. NiO-NP1 films were further tested as water oxidation catalysts for a continuous 12 h of operation at an overpotential of 0.60 V in 1.00m NaOH electrolyte solution (Figure S3).Thus, the films showed a similar trend in the NaOH electrolyte solution as that in the borate buffer, and again the thin NiO-NP1 films exhibited the highest activity per Ni atom (Figure 2 B). Importantly, compared to pH 9.20, the films produced much higher current densities and an approximate 10-fold increase in the TOF at a similar overpotential. The CPE experiments (Figure 2A and B, insets; see also Figure S3) also illustrate the good stability of the NiO films. The current density measured for the NiO-MB film slightly increased up to 1 h of operation and then became stable. The NiO-NP1 films were stable in their performance for at least 12 h (Figure S3). These observations highlight the benefits of the screen-printing method for the fabrication of thin catalyst films for water oxidation and other applications.

The morphology of the screen-printed NiO films was studied by SEM and TEM. The SEM images of the fresh NiO-MB and NiO-NP films (shown in Figure 3 A and B) indicate significant differences in film structure. The NiO-MB film consists of thin flakes with a lacelike fine structure, whereas the NiO-NP film is composed of agglomerated nanoparticles (diameter, d 25 nm). In addition, the morphology of the NiO-MB film differs significantly from that of the powder form. Previous SEM studies have shown that the NiO-MB powder consists of a well-defined porous spherical structure,[27,34] which, in the case of the currently presented NiO-MB film, was replaced by a flakelike structure (Figure 3 A). This change in morphology

Figure 3. SEM images of the fresh A) NiO-MB and C) NiO-NP films recorded at a working distance of 5 mm. Panels B and D show the SEM images of the NiO-MB and NiO-NP films, respectively, recorded after 12 h of catalytic operation in a 0.60m borate buffer.

occurred during ball milling of the NiO-MB powder, which forms part of the preparation of the screen-printing paste, as described above. The SEM images recorded after 12 h of operation (Figure 3A and B) show a small degree of surface corrosion in the case of the NiO-MB films. No significant changes were observed on the NiO-NP film surface, which confirms the chemical and mechanical stability of the films. The XRD patterns of the fresh screen-printed films (shown in Figure S4) are consistent with the cubic NiO phase with characteristic peaks at 2q=37.3, 43.4, 63.0, 75.6, and 79.68 identified as the [111], [2 0 0], [22 0], [3 11], and [2 2 2] planes for cubic NiO crystallites, respectively. [41] The predominance of the cubic NiO phase for all films (fresh and anodized) was also confirmed by high-resolution (HR) TEM (Figure S5). The measured lattice spacings based on electron diffraction patterns showed a good match in each case with the JCPDS 73-1519 cubic NiO standard.

Ex situ nickel K-edge XAS of the freshly prepared NiO-MB and NiO-NP films (see Figure 4) was also consistent with the cubic NiO structure (Figure S6).[17] A comparison of the LSV curve of the anodized and nonanodized films (Figure 1 A and B, respectively) clearly shows an improvement in current density on anodization (films were subjected to anodization in borate buffer for 12 h at an overpotential of 0.62 V) and a reduction in the onset of catalysis by 80–100 mV. However, the X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES; Figure 4), XRD, and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS; Figures S4 and S6) of the fresh and anodized NiO-NP and NiO-MB films revealed no significant change in the spectra after anodization, which indicates that no bulk phase transformation had

Figure 4. Top) XANES and bottom) pre-edge XAS of fresh (c) and anodized (a) NiO-MB and fresh (c) and anodized (a) NiO-NP films. Anodization was done in 0.60m borate buffer at pH 9.20.

occurred, and the XRD peak at 2q=43.18 (characteristic of cubic NiO) is still present even after prolonged testing.

To test if a phase change, accounting for the observed improvements in catalytic activity, could have occurred on the surface of the NiO particles during water oxidation, the fresh and anodized films were analyzed by XPS. XPS analysis revealed that, contrary to the bulk of the films, the surface layer of both the nanoparticle and the microball films transformed into a mixed nickel oxide–hydroxide phase after electrocatalytic studies in borate buffer and NaOH solutions. Figures 5 and S7 show the corresponding characteristic change in the Ni2p spectra, as described and discussed by Biesinger et al.[42] In the case of pure NiO, the main portion of the Ni2p3/2 spectrum consists of a sharp narrow peak at a binding energy (BE) of 854.6 eV and a broader component at a BE of approximately 855.5 eV, whereas for Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> the same spectral region does not display the narrow, lower BE peak but only a single broad peak at the higher BE.[42] Our data clearly show a significant loss in intensity of the peak at a BE of 853.6 eV relative to the component at a BE of 855.5 eV after anodization. The fact that the lower BE peak had not completely disappeared indicates that both Ni hydroxide and NiO were present at the surface (within the XPS sampling depth of 5–10 nm). The corresponding O 1s spectra are shown in Figure S8. Determination of the surface compositions by XPS provided additional evidence for this chemical surface change. For the films subjected to 12 h anodization in the borate buffer solution, the O/Ni atomic ratio increased from 0.94 for NiO-NP and 0.93 for NiO-MB to 1.40 and 1.24, respectively, after anodization. In NaOH, this ratio increased from 0.94 to 2.00 for the NiO-NP1 sample after continuous water oxidation at h=0.60 V for 12 h. Given that Conway, Nocera, and others[3,4,6,9,27–32] have found that nickel oxyhydroxide is a highly active catalyst in water oxidation, it is likely that

Figure 5. XPS Ni2p spectra of A) NiO-NP, B) NiO-MB, C) NiO-NP anodized at pH 9.20 in 0.60m borate buffer, and D) Ni-MB anodized at pH 9.20 in 0.60m borate buffer films. See text for details.

even a thin layer of the nickel oxyhydroxide could result in a significant improvement in the catalytic activity.

1864564x, 2015, 24, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201500835 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

The origin of the difference in the catalytic activities of the NiO-NP, NiO-NP1, and NiO-MB films was further investigated by EIS. EIS is a powerful tool that can be used to extract information about the origin and factors contributing to the total Ohmic resistance involved in the water oxidation reaction, which ultimately determines its efficiency. Therefore, to improve the overall efficiency by identifying resistance bottlenecks, it is essential to establish an equivalent circuit (EC) that can be used to model the charge-transfer processes in the electrochemical cell. Bisquert and co-workers, by applying an EC similar to that pictured in Figure 6, demonstrated the role of surface states in water oxidation by using hematite electrodes.[43] The surface hole collection efficiency was shown to approach unity if a fast hole collector (the ferrocene0/<sup>+</sup> redox couple) in acetonitrile was used. In contrast, the holes accumulated in the depletion layer of the semiconductor film were transferred more sluggishly to the water molecules in aqueous solutions. In this case, surface states were identified as recombination centers that trap holes from the valence band and electrons from the conduction band. The presence of such surface traps can easily be determined by carrying out current transients on the catalyst films in question. The approach sug-

Figure 6. Equivalent circuit used for fitting the EIS data.

gested by the Bisquert group was employed in the characterization of the NiO-MB and the two NiO-NP films: transients were recorded in both non-aqueous and aqueous electrolyte solutions (0.10m ferrocene in acetonitrile and a pH 9.20 borate buffer, respectively). Upon application of a square-wave potential signal (amplitude 0.50 V), current spikes are indicative of surface states. In the case of all three NiO films tested, no spikes were observed in the non-aqueous solution, whereas significant spikes were characteristic of the transient current response to potential disturbances in a pH 9.20 borate buffer solution (see Figure S9). This result indicated that a similar approach to that described by Bisquert and co-workers could be used in the EIS characterization of the NiO catalyst films.[43] The EC based on this model includes the following elements: space charge and Helmholtz double-layer capacitances in series, referred together as Cbulk ; surface state (trap state) capacitance Ctr; series resistance, R<sup>s</sup> ; trap state resistance (Rtr, representing resistance caused by the recombination of charge carriers at the surface traps); and charge-transfer resistance from the surface states to the electrolyte, Rct,tr. This EC model was found to fit the impedance data well if Cbulk was replaced by a constant phase element, CPEbulk (see Figure 6). A CPE is commonly used to model the dielectric behavior of electrical double layers and pseudocapacitors, and it acts as an imperfect capacitor. Metal oxide electrodes generally have high pseudocapacitances, and NiO porous films have also been used as supercapacitors.[44–47] Therefore, the CPEbulk is considered more appropriate for modeling the dielectric capacitance of the NiO films than a pure capacitor.

The chemical nature of the surface state capacitance (Ctr) is discussed elsewhere, [48,49] and a peak in Ctr was shown to correspond to interfacial charge transfer, in this case, water oxidation. In the non-aqueous solution, Ctr for NiO was constant over a large potential window, as for other oxide films. As shown in Figure S10, Ctr was small and constant over a 1.00 V potential window if ferrocene was used as a hole collector in acetonitrile (measured versus an Ag/AgNO<sup>3</sup> pseudoreference electrode). Measured in the pH 9.20 borate buffer, Ctr was found to have a Gaussian shape centered at approximately 1.00 V versus Ag/AgCl (Figure S11). The Nyquist plots of the fresh NiO-MB and NiO-NP films, measured at potentials from 0.40 to 1.50 V at intervals of 0.10 V in 0.60m borate buffer, show two semicircles in the high-frequency [first; at lower Re(Z)] and low-frequency [second; at higher Re(Z)] region (Figure 7). For all films, the second, lower frequency semicircle shows a significant reduction in radius with applied potential, especially at 1.00 V, for which the water oxidation reaction is apparent.

EIS was also used to investigate the increase in activity of the films after anodization in the borate buffer solution. The impedance spectra of the NiO-MB, NiO-NP, and NiO-NP1 films in 0.60m borate buffer are shown before and after anodization in Figure 8A–C. After anodization,adistinctive reduction in the radius of the second semicircle can be observed, whereas little

Figure 7. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (Nyquist plots) of fresh NiO-MB, NiO-NP, and NiO-NP1 films in contact with 0.60m borate buffer (pH 9.20) at different potentials: 0.50 V (&), 0.70 V (\*), and 1.0 V versus Ag/AgCl (~).

Figure 8. Nyquist plots of fresh (&) and anodized in 0.60m borate (pH 9.20) (\*) A) NiO-MB, B) NiO-NP, and C) NiO-NP1 films recorded at 1 V versus Ag/AgCl in a 0.60m borate buffer.

# Full Papers

or no change was recorded in the radius of the first semicircle. This indicates that ageing mainly affected Rct,tr, which makes charge transfer from the catalyst to the electrolyte more efficient. This correlates well with the higher current densities measured by CPE and LSV after anodization in borate buffer.

Two explanations are provided to account for the increase in catalytic activity on ageing or anodization: one, a change in the Ni oxidation state; [3,38, 40] two, physical changes in the film (surface roughness). [6,30,40] The present results indicate that anodization causes a significant change in Rtr for all films and that there is a significant change in the nickel oxidation state on the catalyst surface (as analyzed by XPS). The bulk remains mainly in the cubic NiO phase (as probed by ex situ XAS and XRD).

### Conclusions

Films of cubic NiO nanoparticles and microballs, deposited by screen printing, were demonstrated to be very robust water oxidation catalysts upon testing in borate buffer (pH 9.20) and alkaline solution (1.00m NaOH). Notably, for the latter, current densities of 33 mAcm¢<sup>2</sup> were achieved at an overpotential of 0.60 V. Impedance spectroscopy and other analytical techniques highlighted that parameters, such as the oxide film thickness, morphology, and metal-ion loading, are important in optimizing catalytic performance in addition to the phase and metal oxidation state; these experiments further confirmed the beneficial effect of anodization on the catalytic activity. EIS also emphasized the role of surface states in the catalytic process, in keeping with previous observations by the Bisquert group on photoactive hematite materials. [43,50] Resistance and capacitance data, extracted from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis, were in good agreement with the catalytic activity observed for the three NiO films.

Amorphous materials and layered structures are known to perform as efficient water oxidation catalysis, but in the present study, we demonstrated that highly crystalline, cubic NiO can also form the basis of a robust and efficient water oxidation electrocatalyst. The catalytic activity of the NiO films was significantly improved by anodization, a process that was shown to generate a thin nanometer-sized layer of mixed nickel oxyhydroxide on the film surface. This observation is consistent with other literature reports that have suggested that if electrochemical water oxidation catalysis is performed in the presence of an applied bias then the activity of the bulk structure versus that of the outer surface exposed to water should be considered carefully. [51–54] We believe that screen printing offers the opportunity to use a wide array of materials to rapidly and controllably fabricate water oxidation catalysts on large areas for potential commercial use.

### Experimental Section

#### Materials and Methods

Reagent- and analytical-grade chemicals were sourced from commercial suppliers and were used as received unless stated otherwise. Deionized water was used throughout. NiO microballs (NiO-MB) were synthesized by a thermolysis method as previously described.[34] For comparison, water oxidation catalytic studies were also performed on films prepared by using commercially available NiO nanoparticles (NiO-NPs, sourced from Inframat, 73.2 wt% Ni). The NiO-MB powder was ball milled to enable preparation of a smooth screen-printing paste. The films were deposited by using a screen-printing method following a procedure similar to that detailed in our previous publication.[34] In brief, 13.3 wt% synthesized NiO-MBs and as received NiO-NPs were mixed with 40% ethyl cellulose solution (5 wt% in ethanol) and 46.7% terpineol. After preparing the mixture, ethanol was evaporated by rotary evaporation and the pastes were subsequently printed on FTO glass by using a semiautomatic screen printer. To prepare the NiO-MB film, a single layer of the paste was printed by using a 90T mesh screen designed to print 25 4 Õ4 mm<sup>2</sup> squares. The resulting films were sintered at 4008C for 30 min and then at 5508C for 10 min. The NiO-NP paste was printed by using the same method in a single layer (NiO-NP1) and in three layers (NiO-NP) to achieve a thickness similar to that of the NiO-MB film. The thickness of the films was measured by using a VeecoDektak 6M stylus profilometer. The FTO sheet was then cut into rectangles approximately 10Õ 7 mm in size each containing a NiO film. Electrodes were made by soldering copper wire to the FTO glass.

#### Electrochemical techniques

Measurements were performed in a three-electrode cell by using a BioLogic VSP potentiostat with Ag/AgCl as the reference electrode, a Pt sheet as the counter electrode, and the NiO films as the working electrode. Water oxidation activity testing was performed at room temperature. The potentials are referenced to the AgjAgCljKCl (3m) (Ag/AgCl) reference electrode with no correction for Ohmic potential losses. Either a 0.60m borate buffer solution, prepared by using appropriate quantities of H3BO<sup>3</sup> and NaOH, or a 1.00m NaOH solution was used as electrolyte.

Linear scan voltammograms were run in 0.60m borate buffer solutions at a scan rate of 20 mVs ¢1 to determine the current versus potential profiles of the films. Long-term testing was performed at 1.10 V versus Ag/AgCl for 12 h of continuous operation. The films were tested in an H-shaped cell with continuous stirring. The NiO films, together with the reference electrode, were placed in one arm of the cell, whereas the counter electrode was located in the other arm of the cell. A Tafel plot was constructed from stepwise chronoamperometry data, which was measured after holding the potential constant at each potential step for 2 min to ensure a stable current was obtained. The chronoamperogram was recorded in the anodic and cathodic directions. The average of the cathodic and anodic peaks was used to construct the Tafel plots. Oxygen detection was performed in a custom-built three-electrode electrochemical cell with the NiO-MB film as the working electrode, Ag/AgCl as the reference electrode, and Pt mesh as the counter electrode. The experiment was performed at an applied potential of 1.10 V versus Ag/AgCl in a low-oxygen glove box at atmospheric pressure. Oxygen was detected in the headspace of the electrochemical cell by using a NeoFox fluorescence-quenching oxygen sensor. The values obtained were corrected by accounting for the dissolved oxygen determined by Henry's law. [33]

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy measurements were performed in a Zahner PECC-I cell, in which the distance between the working and reference electrodes was constant for all the films to improve accuracy of the measurements. Impedance spectra were

CHEMSUSCHEM Full Papers

recorded between 0.40 and 1.50 V (with 0.10 V increments) in a 0.60 M borate buffer versus Ag/AgCl reference electrode between frequencies of 1 MHz and 100 mHz by using an amplitude of 10 mV. EIS measurements were also performed in acetonitrile with 0.10 M ferrocene by using a Ag/AgNO<sub>3</sub> (CH<sub>3</sub>CN) system as a pseudoreference electrode. The working electrode area was 0.16 cm<sup>2</sup>.

#### Characterization methods

The structure and morphology of the films were studied by SEM, TEM, XPS, XAS, and XRD techniques. SEM images of the films before and after water oxidation studies were recorded with a FEI Nova FEG-SEM at a working distance of 5 mm at 5 keV beam landing energy. The films were previously sputter coated with a 1 nm thick layer of iridium. To compare the surface morphology of the films before and after anodization, the films were electrolyzed in 0.60 м borate buffer at 1.10 V continuously for 12 h and then used to record the SEM images. TEM images and diffraction patterns were recorded with a Tecnai T20 instrument operated at 200 keV. Powder XRD patterns were recorded with a Philips instrument  $(2\theta = 10-90^{\circ})$ . XPS analysis was performed with an AXIS Ultra DLD X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (Kratos Analytical, Manchester, U.K.) by using a monochromatic AlK $\alpha$  source and the standard aperture (analysis area: 0.70 mm×0.30 mm). Survey spectra were acquired at a pass energy of 160 eV. To obtain more detailed information about the chemical structure, oxidation states, and so on, high-resolution spectra were recorded from individual peaks at 20 eV pass energy. Each specimen was analyzed at an emission angle of 0° as measured from the surface normal. Assuming typical values for the electron attenuation length of relevant photoelectrons, the XPS analysis depth ranged between 5 and 10 nm for a flat surface. XPS survey spectra were quantified by integrating relevant peaks (e.g., Ni 2p, O1s) after subtraction of a Shirley background, then applying appropriate relative sensitivity factors (provided by the manufacturer) to the peak areas (e.g., 4.044 for Ni 2p, 0.78 for O1s, all relative to 1.0 for F1s). To determine their Ni contents, each film was dissolved in aqua regia and then analyzed by ICP-TOF-MS by using a GBC Optimass 9500 instrument, following a similar procedure to that used in our previous work. [33] BET surface area measurements ( $N_2$  absorption/desorption analysis) were conducted with Micrometrics Tristar 3000 equipment. The relative electrochemical surface area (given as cm<sub>e</sub><sup>2</sup>) over the geometric surface area (cm<sub>g</sub><sup>2</sup>) of the three films was calculated from the BET and ICP-MS data [Eq. (1)]:

$$\begin{aligned} &A_{\text{echem}}\left[\text{cm}_{\text{e}}^{\ 2}\,\text{cm}_{\text{g}}^{\ -2}\right] = \\ &\text{Ni content}\left[\text{mg cm}_{\text{g}}^{\ -2}\right] \times \text{BET surface area}\left[\text{cm}_{\text{e}}^{\ 2}\,\text{mg}\right] \end{aligned} \tag{1}$$

Ni K-edge XAS spectra were recorded with the multipole wiggler XAS beam-line 12 ID at the Australian Synchrotron, in operational mode 1. The beam energy was 3.0 GeV and the maximum beam current was 200 mA. The energy scale was calibrated by using a Ni foil as an internal standard, for which the calibration energy of 8333.0 eV corresponds to the first inflection point of the foil. The Average program, was used to average raw data files and to exclude channels. Fluorescent mode XAS data were taken directly on the electrodes at room temperature. The program PySpline was used to subtract background data, spline the data, and calculate the Fourier transform of the EXAFS. An  $E_0$  value of 8340 eV was used in defining the k-range of the EXAFS. A four-segment spline of order 2 was fit to the EXAFS region, and all data were normalized to the edge jump at 8370 eV.

#### **Acknowledgements**

Financial support by the Australian Research Council (ARC), through the ARC Centre for Excellence for Electromaterials Science, is gratefully acknowledged. A.S. is grateful to Monash University for a Monash Graduate Research Scholarship and an International Postgraduate Research Scholarship. A.S. is also grateful for financial assistance provided through an INSPIRE Faculty award, Department of Science and Technology, India. The authors acknowledge the use of facilities in the Monash Centre for Electron Microscopy. Access to equipment and assistance from Dr. M. Raveggi (School of Geosciences, Monash University) is greatly appreciated. Part of this research was undertaken on the X-ray absorption spectroscopy beamline at the Australian Synchrotron, Australia.

**Keywords:** nanostructures  $\cdot$  nickel oxide  $\cdot$  screen printing  $\cdot$  thin films  $\cdot$  water oxidation catalysis

- [1] D. G. Nocera, Daedalus 2006, 135, 112-115.
- [2] N. S. Lewis, D. G. Nocera, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2006, 103, 15729– 15735.
- [3] D. K. Bediako, B. L. Kaiser, Y. Surendranath, J. Yano, V. K. Yachandra, D. G. Nocera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 6801 – 6809.
- [4] a) J. G. McAlpin, T. A. Stich, C. A. Ohlin, Y. Surendranath, D. G. Nocera, W. H. Casey, R. D. Britt, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 15444-15452; b) D. Wang, G. Ghirlanda, J. P. Allen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 10198-10201; c) K. Sun, X. Pang, S. Shen, X. Qian, J. S. Chang, D. Wang, Nano Lett. 2013, 13, 2064-2072; d) D. Hong, Y. Yamada, T. Nagatomi, Y. Takai, S. Fukuzumi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 19572-19575; e) M. Gao, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, Q. Fang, S. Gu, J. Jiang, Y. Yan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 7077-7084.
- [5] M. D. Symes, Y. Surendranath, D. A. Lutterman, D. G. Nocera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 5174–5177.
- [6] M. Dincă, Y. Surendranath, D. G. Nocera, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2010, 107, 10337 – 10341.
- [7] M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, *Science* **2008**, *321*, 1072 1075.
- [8] S. Y. Reece, J. A. Hamel, K. Sung, T. D. Jarvi, A. J. Esswein, J. J. H. Pijpers, D. G. Nocera, *Science* 2011, 334, 645–648.
- [9] Y. Surendranath, M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 16501 – 16509.
- [10] Y. Surendranath, D. A. Lutterman, Y. Liu, D. G. Nocera, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 6326–6336.
- [11] G. C. Dismukes, R. Brimblecombe, G. A. N. Felton, R. S. Pryadun, J. E. Sheats, L. Spiccia, G. F. Swiegers, Acc. Chem. Res. 2009, 42, 1935–1943.
- [12] R. Brimblecombe, A. Koo, G. C. Dismukes, G. F. Swiegers, L. Spiccia, ChemSusChem 2010, 3, 1146 – 1150.
- [13] R. Brimblecombe, A. Koo, G. C. Dismukes, G. F. Swiegers, L. Spiccia, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 2892–2894.
- [14] R. Brimblecombe, A. M. Bond, G. C. Dismukes, G. F. Swiegers, L. Spiccia, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2009, 11, 6441 – 6449.
- [15] R. Brimblecombe, G. F. Swiegers, G. C. Dismukes, L. Spiccia, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2008, 47, 7335–7338; Angew. Chem. 2008, 120, 7445–7448
- [16] R. K. Hocking, R. Brimblecombe, L. Y. Chang, A. Singh, M. H. Cheah, C. Glover, W. H. Casey, L. Spiccia, Nat. Chem. 2011, 3, 461 467.
- [17] M. Risch, K. Klingan, J. Heidkamp, D. Ehrenberg, P. Chernev, I. Zaharieva, H. Dau, Chem. Commun. 2011, 47, 11912 – 11914.
- [18] M. Grätzel, Nature 2001, 414, 338-344.
- [19] K. Sivula, F. Le Formal, M. Grätzel, ChemSusChem 2011, 4, 432 449.
- [20] M. Risch, I. Zaharieva, L. Gerencser, P. Chernev, H. Dau, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 6936–6937.
- [21] M. M. Najafpour, V. McKee, Catal. Commun. 2010, 11, 1032–1035.

, 24, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.201500835 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms

and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA

s are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [22] M. M. Najafpour, W. Hillier, A. N. Shamkhali, M. Amini, K. Beckman, Z. Jaglicic, M. Jagodic, P. Strauch, A. N. Moghaddam, G. Beretta, M. Bagherzadeh, *Dalton Trans.* 2012, 41, 12282 12288.
- [23] M. Najafpour, S. Nayeri, B. Pashaei, *Dalton Trans.* **2011**, *40*, 9374 9378.
- [24] M. Najafpour, Dalton Trans. 2011, 40, 3805 3807.
- [25] P. Kurz, G. Berggren, M. F. Anderlund, S. Styring, *Dalton Trans.* 2007, 4258–4261.
- [26] K. Beckmann, H. Uchtenhagen, G. Berggren, M. F. Anderlund, A. Thapper, J. Messinger, S. Styring, P. Kurz, Energy Environ. Sci. 2008, 1, 668– 676
- [27] B. E. Conway, L. Bai, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 1986, 11, 533-538.
- [28] J. Y. Huor, M. Trudeau, L. Brossard, R. Schulz, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **1989**, *14*, 319–323.
- [29] P. Oliva, J. F. Laurent, J. Power Sources 1982, 8, 229–255.
- [30] M. R. G. de Chialvo, A. C. Chialvo, *Electrochim. Acta* 1988, 33, 825–830.
- [31] K. Sun, N. Park, Z. Sun, J. Zhou, J. Wang, X. Pang, S. Shen, S. Y. Noh, Y. Jing, S. Jin, P. K. L. Yua, D. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 7872 7877.
- [32] X. Wanga, H. Yang, P. J. Sebastian, S. A. Gamboa, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2004, 29, 967 – 972.
- [33] A. Singh, S. Chang, R. K. Hocking, U. Bach, L. Spiccia, *Energy Environ. Sci.* 2013, 6, 579 – 586.
- [34] S. Powar, Q. Wu, M. Weidelener, A. Nattestad, Z. Hu, A. Mishra, P. Bäuerle, L. Spiccia, Y. Cheng, U. Bach, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 3280 3283.
- [35] A. Zouni, W. Horst-Tobias, J. Kern, P. Fromme, N. Krauss, W. Saunger, P. Orth. Nature 2001, 409, 739 – 743
- [36] W. L. Butler, M. Kitajima, Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1975, 396, 72-85.
- [37] A. Tenderholt, B. Hedman, K. O. Hodgson in XAFS13, Vol. 882, AIP, Stanford, 2007, p. 105.
- [38] B. S. Yeo, A. T. Bell, J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 8394-8400.

- [39] C. K. Dyer, J. Electrochem. Soc. 1985, 132, 64-67.
- [40] M. E. G. Lyons, M. P. Brandon, Int. J. Electrochem. Sci. 2008, 3, 1386–
- [41] N. Srivastava, P. C. Srivastava, Bull. Mater. Sci. 2010, 33, 653-656.
- [42] M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, L. W. M. Lau, A. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, Surf. Interface Anal. 2009, 41, 324–342.
- [43] B. Klahr, S. Gimenez, F. Fabregat-Santiago, T. Hamann, J. Bisquert, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 4294–4302.
- [44] X. Xia, J. Tu, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, C. Gu, X. Zhao, H. J. Fan, *ACS Nano* **2012**, *6*, 5531–5538.
- [45] C. Yuan, X. Zhang, L. Su, B. Gao, L. Shen, J. Mater. Chem. 2009, 19, 5772 – 5777
- [46] X. Zhang, W. Shi, J. Zhu, W. Zhao, J. Ma, S. Mhaisalkar, T. L. Maria, Y. Yang, H. Zhang, H. H. Hng, Q. Yan, Nano Res. 2010, 3, 643 652.
- [47] http://www.easyspin.org/.
- [48] J. Bisquert, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2003, 5, 5360-5364.
- [49] J. Bisquert, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2008, 10, 49-72.
- [50] B. Klahr, S. Gimenez, F. Fabregat-Santiago, T. Hamann, J. Bisquert, T. W. Hamann, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 16693 – 16700.
- [51] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, P. Littlewood, M. Schwarze, C. Göbel, R. Schomäcker, M. Driess, ChemSusChem 2014, 7, 2202 – 2211.
- [52] A. Indra, P. W. Menzes, M. Driess, ChemSusChem 2015, 8, 776 785.
- [53] D. González-Flores, I. Sanchez, I. Zaharieva, K. Klingan, J. Heidkamp, P. Chernev, P. W. Menzes, M. Driess, H. Dau, M. L. Montero, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 2472 2476; Angew. Chem. 2015, 127, 2502 2506.
- [54] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, D. Gonzalez-Flores, N. R. Schraie, I. Zaharieva, M. Schwarze, P. Strasser, H. Dau, M. Driess, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 2017 2027.

Received: June 19, 2015

Published online on November 30, 2015