---
source: Tamilarasi 等 - 2024 - Boosting the Production of Hydrogen from an Overall Urea Splitting Reaction Using a Tri‐Functional S.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 9.049s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:31:52.571554Z
---

# **Boosting the Production of Hydrogen from an Overall Urea Splitting Reaction Using a Tri-Functional Scandium–Cobalt Electrocatalyst**

*S Tamilarasi, Ramasamy Santhosh Kumar, Ae Rhan Kim,\* Hyun Jin Kim, and Dong Jin Yoo\**

**The creation of highly efficient and economical electrocatalysts is essential to the massive electrolysis of water to produce clean energy. The ability to use urea reaction of oxidation (UOR) in place of the oxygen/hydrogen evolution process (OER/HER) during water splitting is a significant step toward the production of high-purity hydrogen with less energy usage. Empirical evidence suggests that the UOR process consists of two stages. First, the metal sites undergo an electrochemical pre-oxidation reaction, and then the urea molecules on the high-valence metal sites are chemically oxidized. Here, the use of scandiumdoped CoTe supported on carbon nanotubes called Sc@CoTe/CNT is reported and CoTe/CNT as a composite to efficiently promote hydrogen generation from highly durable and active electrocatalysts for the OER/UOR/HER in urea and alkali solutions. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy indicates that the UOR facilitates charge transfer across the interface. Furthermore, the Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalyst has high performance in KOH and KOH-containing urea solutions as demonstrated by the HER, OER, and UOR (215 mV, 1.59, and 1.31 V, respectively, at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 1 m KOH) and CoTe/CNT shows 195 mV, 1.61 and 1.3 V, respectively. Consequently, the total urea splitting system achieves 1.29 V, whereas the overall water splitting device obtaines 1.49 V of Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT shows 1.54, 1.48 V, respectively. This work presents a viable method of combining HER with UOR for maximally effective hydrogen production.**

S Tamilarasi, R. S. Kumar, D. J. Yoo

Department of Energy Storage/Conversion Engineering (BK21 FOUR) of Graduate School

Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Research Center

Jeonbuk National University

Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do 54896, Republic of Korea

E-mail: [djyoo@jbnu.ac.kr](mailto:djyoo@jbnu.ac.kr) A. R. Kim, H. J. Kim, D. J. Yoo Department of Life Science

Jeonbuk National University Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do 54896, Republic of Korea

E-mail: [kimaerhan@jbnu.ac.kr](mailto:kimaerhan@jbnu.ac.kr)

A. R. Kim

Department of Energy Storage/Conversion Engineering (BK21 FOUR) of

Graduate School R&D Center for CANUTECH

Business Incubation Center Jeonbuk National University

Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do 54896, Republic of Korea

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202405939**

# **1. Introduction**

The increasing global population and modern industries are increasing the demand for energy. Furthermore, the exhaustion of fossil resources may have a severe influence on human society.[\[1–3\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, researchers are searching for alternative energy sources that are clean and emission-free.[\[4,5\]](#page-10-0) Water electrolysis is required to produce CO2-free hydrogen with the highest purity (99.9%) as a renewable resource.[\[6–9\]](#page-10-0) Furthermore, the two halfreactions related to electrocatalytic water splitting are the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), which occur on the cathode and anode, respectively.[\[10,11\]](#page-10-0) The OER is a key reaction in many fields, including water electrolysis, renewable fuel cells, rechargeable metal-air batteries, nitrogen reduction, and electrocatalytic CO2. [\[9,12,13\]](#page-10-0) OER, which requires a higher potential significantly greater than the anticipated theoretical cell voltage (1.23 V), limits the manufacturing of hydrogen on a large scale.[\[8,14\]](#page-10-0) In contrast to benchmark OER electrocatalysts such as

IrO2/RuO2, efficient electrocatalysts that exhibit low anodic overpotentials are needed to enhance overall catalytic efficiency.[\[15,16\]](#page-10-0) However, slow OER reaction kinetics and high energy barriers are the main drawbacks for largescale applications. Energy-saving oxidation techniques using urea, methanol, glycerol, hydrazine hydrate, and other compounds have been developed for use in electrochemical processes.[\[17\]](#page-10-0)

Specifically, urea-assisted water splitting is a safe, harmless oxidation reaction that requires an optimal voltage of 0.37 V, lower than that of the OER (1.23 V).[\[18\]](#page-10-0) For this reason, it is believed that the urea oxidation reaction (UOR) can serve as a beneficial OER alternative in alkaline electrolysis.[\[13\]](#page-10-0) The electrochemical synthesis of H2 using urea electrolysis theoretically requires 94% less energy than water splitting, Equations (1)–[\(3\)](#page-1-0) depict the reactions occurring at the electrodes as well as the overall procedure.[\[18b,19\]](#page-10-0)

Cathode : 2H2O + 2e<sup>−</sup> → H2 + 2OH<sup>−</sup> (Eo = 0 V versus RHE) (1)

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Anode : 
$$CO(NH_2)_2 + 6OH^- \rightarrow N_2 + CO_2 + 5H_2O + 6e^-$$
  
 $(E^\circ = 0.07 \text{ V versus RHE})$  (2)

Overall: 
$$CO(NH_2)_2 + H_2O \rightarrow N_2 + CO_2 + 3H_2$$
  
 $(\Delta G^{\circ} = 39.5 \text{ KJ mol}^{-1}; |E_{cell}^{\circ}| = 0.07 \text{ V})$  (3)

A very stable and effective electrocatalyst is needed to perform trifunctional HER, OER, and UOR. As opposed to their single-component equivalents for HER or OER, heterogeneous nanostructures exhibit synergistically accelerated kinetics on a variety of dynamic sites and electron-reconfigured interfaces.[\[6,20\]](#page-10-0) Through the thoughtful integration of HER, OER, and UOR active materials, heterogeneous nanostructures can function as trifunctional electrocatalysts to perform total urea and water splitting. Due to its encouraging results in UOR catalysis, nickel has received the greatest attention of all the metal catalysts.[\[21,22\]](#page-11-0) Other studies also looked into the UOR catalytic activity of materials based on Co, Mn, and Fe.[\[2,23\]](#page-10-0) In contrast to Co, Mn, Fe, and Ni, the metal Sc only possesses a single electron inside a dorbital (3d<sup>1</sup> 4s2) and is incapable of forming highly valenced oxidative ions. Therefore, Sc-based catalyst is anticipated to be safe for both the electrode and the electrolyte solution. Although they have been thoroughly studied for HER,[\[24\]](#page-11-0) ORR,[\[25–27\]](#page-11-0) electrooxidation,[\[28\]](#page-11-0) and oxidation of water,[\[29\]](#page-11-0) Sc-based catalysts have not been thoroughly studied for UOR. Furthermore, research from the literature indicates that metal tellurides have a better catalytic effectiveness than other binary chalcogenides based on transition metals. Tellurides (2.1) have superior metallic characteristics that benefit the electrocatalytic activity since their electronegativity is lower than that of various chalcogenides (O *>* S *>* Se *>* Te). Additionally, telluride-based electrocatalysts have superior band alignment than selenides when it comes to water oxidation ratios.[\[30,31\]](#page-11-0)

Here, we describe a simple hydrothermal and annealing method for creating atomically distributed Sc ions on CoTe over carbon nanotubes (Sc@CoTe/CNT). In comparison to the benchmarked noble metal Ir- and Pt-based catalysts, Sc@CoTe/CNT provides equivalent electrocatalytic tri-functional HER, OER, and UOR activity. Additionally, as evidenced by the HER, OER, and UOR (215 mV and 1.59 V in 1 m KOH, and 1.31 V in 1 m KOH + 0.5 m urea at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively), the Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT (195 mV, 1.61, and 1.3 V) nanocatalysts exhibits outstanding performance in KOH- and urea-containing solutions. The overall water splitting device receives 1.49 V, whereas the overall urea splitting system receives 1.29 V of Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalyst; CoTe/CNT receives 1.54 and 1.48 V, respectively. Additionally, Sc@CoTe/CNT shows outstanding endurance (12 hours) in solutions that are either alkaline or include urea.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Structural and Chemical Characterization**

**Figure [1](#page-2-0)**a shows the synthesis procedure for Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT. Cobalt nitrate, a precursor of carbon nanotubes, and sodium telluride were first utilized to make CoTe/CNT. A hydrazine solution was then employed as a reducing agent at ambient temperature. Tellurium powder was tellurized with mixed Ar gas to produce the final catalyst, CoTe/CNT. Upon annealing the CoTe/CNT in a mixed Ar gas, the DI water broke down into doped scandium (III) nitrate hydrate, which is a white rare earth salt that is moderately soluble in water and served as a crystalline supply of Sc for the formation of Sc@CoTe/CNT. Additionally, metallic cobalt ions quickly transformed into cobalt nanoparticles. With an abundance of Ar, these extremely active cobalt nanoparticles accelerated the formation of CNTs. The length of the CNTs increased with temperature and time, yielding the intended Sc@CoTe/CNT. Then, to create the Sc@CoTe/CNT combination, the cobalt nanoparticles in Sc@CoTe/CNT were tellurized using a hydrothermal process with Ar gas. In this technique, cobalt telluride nanoparticle aggregation may be prevented by ordered growth of Sc@CoTe/CNT. In the preparation procedure, the annealing temperature might be varied to produce a good electrocatalyst.[\[32\]](#page-11-0)

Figure [1b–d](#page-2-0) displays field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) images of the as-prepared CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT. It is evident from Figure [1b](#page-2-0) that the prepared CoTe exhibits a partial arrangement of nanoparticles on a CNT tube. Remarkably, the nanoparticle configuration of Sc changes to a plate-like structure upon incorporation of CoTe/CNT (Figure [1c,d\)](#page-2-0).[\[33\]](#page-11-0) The performance of electrocatalysts is significantly influenced by both the surface area and the pore-size distribution, as seen in **Figure 2**[e,f.](#page-3-0) The surface areas and porosities of the as-prepared catalysts were examined using nitrogen adsorption–desorption analysis.[\[32\]](#page-11-0) CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalysts exhibited improved electrochemical performance due to their large specific surface areas of roughly 73.2 and 70.2 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1, respectively. The CoTe/CNT nanoparticles and Sc@CoTe/CNT plate-like structure catalyst hysteresis curve (type IV isotherm) demonstrates mesoporous structures at relative pressure. The Barret-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) model was utilized to investigate the distribution of pore size of the CoTe/CNT nanoparticles and Sc@CoTe/CNT plate-like structural catalysts. The curve presented in the inset photos indicates pore sizes of 13.2 and 17.2 nm in the mesoporous environment. Enhanced HER, OER, and UOR activity is achieved through the high specific surface area of the Sc@CoTe/CNT plate-like structure and mesoporous CoTe/CNT nanoparticle catalysts.

The crystal structures of the as-synthesized nanomaterials were investigated using X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. The acquired XRD patterns of the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalysts are displayed in Figure [1g.](#page-2-0) Representative CoTe/CNT catalyst spots from the (1 10), (111), (200), and (023) sequences are shown in the XRD spectrum at 36.5, 44.2, and 64.8°. A distinctive diffraction pattern directed toward CoTe/CNT (JCPDS; 074–0245) is displayed by these peaks. Strong peaks were seen in the XRD peaks of the Sc@CoTe/CNT material at 27.6, 29.3, 34.3, 41.4, and 53.5°, which corresponded to the respective (310), (311), (020), (024), and (027) phases of the cubic shape of Sc@CoTe/CNT (JCPDS; 047-0010), as reported in the literature. The carbon in the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts showed wide peaks at 22.9 and 24.5, which corresponded to the (0 0 2) plane of carbon. This confirmed that

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic route for the synthesis of CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts. SEM images of b) CoTe/CNT and c,d) Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts. N2 sorption isotherm of e) CoTe/CNT and f) Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts and the corresponding pore size distribution. g) XRD analysis of CNT, CoTe/CNT, and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts, respectively.

the hydrothermal process successfully converted the carbon to CNTs.[\[11,34\]](#page-10-0)

CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT were employed as distinctive nanomaterials for additional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies. The TEM images in Figure [2a](#page-3-0) of the CoTe/CNT show apparent nanoparticles on the CNT nanotube, and that the CoTe and Sc@CoTe nanoparticles are uniformly distributed on the exterior of CNT nanotubes. The interfaces between crystalline CoTe/CNT nanoparticles are depicted in the high-resolution-TEM image in Figure [2b,c](#page-3-0) (insert image of FFT transmission). The crystal structures yielded lattice spacings of 27.4, 0.28, and 0.31 nm, which agree with the corresponding crystal structures of the CoTe/CNT nanoparticle catalyst. Sc@CoTe/CNT nanoparticles with plate-like structures embedded on CNT substrates are shown in Figure [2d–f,](#page-3-0) where the crystal structure perfectly matches the XRD spectrum of the Sc@CoTe/CNT nanoparticle catalyst. These figures clearly illustrate a lattice separation resulting from d-spacings of 0.21 and 0.27 nm, respectively. Moreover, the EDX elemental mapping of CoTe/CNT nanoparticle compositions indicate the presence of C 1s, Co 2p, and Te 3d, as shown in Figure [2g.](#page-3-0) Last, the EDX spectrum in Figure [2h](#page-3-0) illustrates the dependability of the nanostructures in CNTs by displaying the ratios of Sc 2p, Co 2p, and Te 3d elements in the Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts.

Raman spectroscopy is an analytical method for chemical examination that is non-destructive and can yield extensive information about molecular interactions, phase and polymorphic, crystallinity, and chemical structure.[\[35,36\]](#page-11-0) The method operates on the basis of light interaction with a material's chemical bonds. The defect D band and graphitic G band (sp2 carbon) of the

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** TEM and HR-TEM images of a–c) CoTe/CNT and d–f) Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts (insert image). (a,d) The particle size distribution indicates the percentage of particles of a certain size. Elemental mapping images of g) CoTe/CNT and h) Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts for the analogous elements Sc, Co, Te, and C, in that order.

external carbon layer are shown in **Figure [3](#page-4-0)**a using the nanocatalyst spectra at ≈1344, 1574, and 2D 2691 cm<sup>−</sup>1. The dynamic bimetal interactives were demonstrated by the D band position shifting from 1561 to 1568 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> during the bimetal introduction. Additionally, Sc@CoTe/CNT has a D and G band index to intensity ratio (ID/IG) of about 1.15, which is greater than the 1.17 of lone CoTe. This shows that the new defect site promotes electrically charged sites

and an electron-transport nature toward the generation of hydrogen.[\[31\]](#page-11-0)

Employing X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements, the chemical states and electronic structures of the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalysts were examined.[\[37\]](#page-11-0) First, the XPS survey spectrum in Figure [3b](#page-4-0) verified the existence of Sc, Co, Te, C, and O components in CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT. Additionally, as shown in Figure [3c,](#page-4-0) the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Raman spectra of CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT composites. High-resolution XPS spectra of CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT composites: b) survey spectra, c) Sc 2p, d) Co 2p, and e) Te 3d. X-ray absorption spectra at the Co k-edge. f) Normalized XANES spectra; g) FT-EXAFS region for the local structures of M–Te, Co–Co, and Co–Sc; and h) EXAFS of Co k-space for CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts.

high-resolution XPS Sc 2p spectra of the Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocomposite showed peaks at 401.28 and 406.28 eV that correspond to Sc 2p3/2 and Sc 2p1/2, respectively. Sc3<sup>+</sup> and Sc2<sup>+</sup> are present in the Sc 2p3/2 spectra and are deconvoluted onto two peaks that emerge at 401 and 401.8 eV, respectively. The successful production of the Sc@CoTe composite was confirmed by the simultaneous appearance of 405.4 and 406.2 eV of Sc<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Sc2<sup>+</sup> states of oxidation in the Sc 2p1/2 spectra, respectively.[\[38\]](#page-11-0)

Co 2p3/2 (780.6 eV), Co 2p1/2 (796.6 eV), and two satellite peaks denoted as "Sat." occurring at 786.2 and 802.6 eV were obtained from deconvolution of the Co 2p spectra of CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT in Figure 3d. [\[39\]](#page-11-0) Additionally, the Co 2p3/2 spectra are deconvoluted into a pair of peaks at 780.5 and 782.2 eV, which indicate that the CoTe/CNT composite contains Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co2<sup>+</sup> states, respectively. In addition, Co 2p1/2 deconvoluted into two peaks that showed the existence of Co3<sup>+</sup> and Co2<sup>+</sup> in addition to satellite peaks at 796.2 and 797.5 eV. Because Sc metal was added to the CoTe/CNT composite, the Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> spectra exhibited increased intensity and a chemical shift into positive binding energy.[\[40,41\]](#page-11-0) Additionally, the Co 2p3/2 exhibited a negative shift in binding energy from 780.6 eV (CoTe) to 780.4 eV (Sc@CoTe), which is beneficial to both Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe electrocatalytic activity. This shift is attributed to an increase in the number of collected electrons in the Co site.

Additionally, Te 3d spectra are displayed in Figure 3e, where peaks at 575.5 and 575.7 eV are in accordance with the respective CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT binding energies of Te 3d5/2 values. Te 3d3/2 is represented by other peaks at 585.9 and 586.1 eV, showing a positive shift in binding energy. The exerted positive shift suggests that non-metals experience a stronger oxidation phenomenon than metals.[\[39,42\]](#page-11-0) With the addition of more metal from CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT, the C 1s peak was further deconvoluted, and minor changes in the binding energy were observed at 283.6, 284.1, 285.1, and 288.1 eV

indicating C─C, C─OH, C═C, and O─C═O, respectively (Figure S4b, Supporting Information).[\[43\]](#page-11-0) Additionally, the deconvoluted O 1s spectra for the matching O─C═O, C─O, and C═O peaks in the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT composites are displayed in Figure S4c (Supporting Information) at 529.9, 530.8, and 531.7 eV, respectively.[\[44\]](#page-11-0)

Using data from X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES), the chemical state of Co atoms was examined. Figure [3f](#page-4-0) XANES spectra show that Co foil, CoTe/CNT, and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts exhibit Co K-edge adsorption. The valence state of the Co atoms in this material is approximately +2/+3 using Co foil as a point of reference. XPS investigations supported this outcome. Regarding the Co 2p spectrum, the Co 2p1/2 and Co 2p3/2 orbitals of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> are represented by peaks at BEs of 797.6 and 780.2 eV, respectively.[\[45\]](#page-11-0) The Co foil, CoTe/CNT, and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts exhibited pre-edge and post-edge peaks at 7709.8 and 7733.8 eV, respectively, indicating the oxidation and chemical states of the Co atoms. Additionally, compared to CoTe/CNT catalysts, the post-edge peak intensity of Sc@CoTe/CNT catalyst was higher, indicating that the Sc atom had successfully bound with the CoTe/CNT catalyst because of its strong interaction with the Co atom.[\[37\]](#page-11-0)

Terrible and anionic metal ion coordination environments were evaluated by EXAFS spectra.[\[46\]](#page-11-0) EXAFS spectra were used to further investigate the coordination states of the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts. As seen in Figure [3g,](#page-4-0) three prominent meta-anion and metal-metal peaks arose at 1.63 (M–Te), 2.3 (Co–Co), and 2.7 Å (Co–Sc) in the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts. Interestingly, the Co–Co peak strength was lower than the Co–Sc signal, indicating a strong link between the Sc and Co atoms as a result of successful Sc@CoTe catalyst production. CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalyst oscillations display a clean EXAFS spectrum in Figure [3h,](#page-4-0) ranging from a fair signal to noise percentage. Last, we examined the coordination states and chemical structures of the CoTe and Sc@CoTe that were successfully generated in carbon nanotubes. These findings indicate that certain catalysts performed better than others in electrochemical methods.

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Performances for HER, OER, and UOR**

After fully revealing the structural, compositional, and physical features of the catalysts, a number of electrochemical techniques were employed to evaluate the electrochemical properties. Using a three-electrode setup with Pt wire serving as the counter electrode and Ag/AgCl (KCl saturated) as the reference electrode, the electrochemical properties of CoTe/CNT, Sc@CoTe/CNT, commercial IrO2, and Pt-C in 1 m KOH were investigated. All the materials were immediately used as functional electrodes because their active substances were prepared directly on the nickel foam.[\[13,47\]](#page-10-0) First, we investigated the OER activity of CoTe/CNT, Sc@CoTe/CNT, and IrO2 electrocatalysts. With an *E*onset of roughly 1.45 V (IrO2), **Figure [4](#page-6-0)**a exhibits the highest OER activity of these materials and is more detrimental than CoTe/CNT (1.53 V) and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalyst (1.51 V), respectively. Because the Sc atom has a higher surface area and faster kinetics on the CoTe external, the produced Sc@CoTe/CNT (1.59 V) electrocatalyst exhibited greater OER activity than CoTe/CNT (1.61 V).

We examined the UOR performances of the produced electrocatalysts after imposing OER motion. This was accomplished utilizing a three-electrode arrangement in 1 m KOH with 0.5 m urea. The UOR is among the most straightforward methods for creating green hydrogen.[\[48,49\]](#page-11-0) Figure [4b](#page-6-0) shows that the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT electrodes exhibited greater UOR performance than OER performance. Specifically, the UOR occurs at potentials of 1.32 and 1.30 V, slightly lower than those of the OER potential (1.61 and 1.59 V) on the respective CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT electrodes with 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density. Our findings were corroborated by the CV curves in Figure S5a–d (Supporting Information), which display excellent oxidation and reduction peaks in KOH solutions with and without urea. Figure [4d,e](#page-6-0) compares the activities at current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, demonstrating the highest activity in a 1 m KOH solution containing urea. Compared to this is attributed to the Sc@CoTe/CNT high activity, large Sc atom surface area, and strong charge transfer across the electrodes and electrolytes. These findings demonstrate the overpotential of UOR to be smaller than that of OER, and that achieving a swap current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Sc@CoTe/CNT requires a voltage of 1.32 V for the UOR, which is 0.12 V less than that needed for the OER. This suggests that the UOR proceeds more quickly than the OER and has a higher reaction efficiency.

Next, the HER performance was analyzed. Using a 1 m KOH solution, electrochemical techniques of chronopotentiometry, LSV, and CV were used to assess the HER function of the asprepared electrocatalyst.[\[50,51\]](#page-11-0) The redox maximum currents of the Sc@CoTe/CNT were notably higher than those of the corresponding electrode, underscoring the critical function of Sc in rapid electron transfer. As shown in Figure S9a,c (Supporting Information), the Sc@CoTe/CNT nanoparticle displayed a redox peak in the quasi-rectangular CV curves upon the insertion of a pseudocapacitive Sc plate-like structure on the CoTe/CNT nanoparticle. The iR-corrected LSV comparison curves of commercial Pt–C electrocatalysts, CoTe/CNT, and Sc@CoTe/CNT are displayed in Figure [4c.](#page-6-0) Compared to Sc@CoTe/CNT (215 mV) at an identical current density, the ideal CoTe/CNT showed a smaller overpotential of 195 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, although this is higher than that of the standard Pt–C catalyst of 58 mV as shown in Figure [4f](#page-6-0) (also see the Table S2, Supporting Information compare the OER, UOR, and HER). The CoTe/CNT exhibited a slightly higher HER performance than Sc-doped CoTe/CNT due to the increased HER activity of higher Sc loading of the Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst. This is particularly true for applications involving OER and UOR, where Sc@CoTe/CNT showed better performance than CoTe/CNT.

The appropriate LSV curves were linearly fit to produce Tafel plots (Figure [4g\)](#page-6-0), which were used to analyze the OER kinetics for each sample. Tafel slopes of IrO2 (22.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), CoTe/CNT (52.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and Sc@CoTe/CNT (55.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) in 1 m KOH solution were observed. Following UOR analysis, the performance of the electrocatalysts in 1 m KOH + 0.5 m urea solution was lower than those of Sc@CoTe/CNT (21.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and CoTe/CNT (23.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), as shown in Figure [4h.](#page-6-0) Because of its wide surface area and quick reaction kinetics, CoTe/CNT considerably accelerated the transfer of electrons, enhancing the

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** LSV curves (iR compensation) for the a) OER, b) UOR, c) HER, d,e) corresponding overpotential of OER and UOR, f) comparison of HER overpotentials at different current densities toward the Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT electrocatalysts, g–i) Tafel slopes of the OER, UOR, and HER.

OER and UOR electroactivity for the Sc atom, leading to the reduced Tafel value for the Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst. The addition of urea enhanced the number of redox-active regions on the surface, as seen by the Tafel values in the KOH and KOH + urea electrolytes. This further indicates the practicality of using UOR in place of sluggish OER.[\[52\]](#page-11-0) Furthermore, Figure S6a,b (Supporting Information) presents a schematic proposal of the potential OER/UOR mechanism of the Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst based on the previously reported characterization and electrochemical results.

We also conducted a Tafel study to further identify the reaction kinetics of HER performances. The results showed that the CoTe/CNT catalyst exhibited a smaller Tafel slope value of 46.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in comparison to Sc@CoTe/CNT (50.4 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) electrocatalysts. This value is higher than that of the benchmark Pt–C electrocatalyst, which is 38.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (see in Figure 4i). The best CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT had better intrinsic catalytic activity with improved HER kinetics, as this finding shows. According to the Tafel data, the HER reaction proceeds as follows, with the rate-determining steps displayed in Figure S6c (Supporting Information). This demonstrates that the Volmer– Heyrovsky mechanism is the reaction route for the HER, and that the rate-determining step is electrochemical breakdown. Furthermore, the adsorption of hydrogen is impacted by the existence of bubbles, which is why the experimentally measured Tafel slope is greater than the predicted value. First, hydroxide ions are produced when gas is adsorbed on the catalyst surface. According to Figure S6c (Supporting Information), there are two different -ways that H2 gas molecules can escape the catalyst surface: i) the Heyrovsky process and ii) the Tafel process. The Volmer-Heyrovsky step is the mechanism by which H2 molecules exit the surfaces of the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts according to the reaction pathway.

All of the produced electrocatalysts were used in subsequent electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) studies at a faradaic potential versus RHE to understand their

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a–c) EIS spectra of OER, UOR, and HER studies (inset image: the insertion is the simulated equivalent circuit). Cdl results of d) OER, e) UOR, and f) HER. g,h) Rct values and ECSA values comparisons for OER, UOR, and HER. i) Bar chart diagram showing the TOF calculations for OER and HER using CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalysts, respectively.

interfacial transfer of charge kinetics for OER, UOR, and HER (**Figure 5**a–c).[\[37,53\]](#page-11-0) A lower Rct value is indicative of a higher electron transfer rate. The charge-transfer resistance (Rct), which is obtained from the circle diameter in the Nyquist plots, is linked to the electrocatalytic dynamics at the connection involving the electrocatalyst and electrolyte.[\[32,54\]](#page-11-0) At the interface of the electrode and the electrolyte of OER, UOR, and HER, Sc@CoTe/CNT exhibited superior reaction kinetics, rapid electron transfer, and high conductivity, as seen in Figure 5a–c, which also demonstrates that its Rct is lower than those of CoTe/CNT and IrO2. The results presented in Figure 5g indicate that Sc@CoTe/CNT exhibits high charge transfer ability and rapid reaction kinetics during the OER, UOR, and HER.

The smallest Rct values of Sc@CoTe/CNT (2.81, 4,33, and 1.83 Ω) are compatible with its lowest Tafel slope. The remaining control Rct values for the CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst were 3.55, 8.03, and 4.95 Ω. The Nyquist plot analysis for OER and HER revealed that IrO2 and Pt–C exhibited much faster catalytic rates (Figure 5g and equivalent circuit for Figure 5a–c).[\[55,56\]](#page-11-0) Another important metric for assessing the intrinsic activities of the electro-catalyst is the electrochemically active surface area, or ECSA.[\[47,57\]](#page-11-0) A generally accepted way to measure the relative surface area is to measure the double-layer capacitance (Cdl), which has a linear relationship with the ECSA and is associated with non-faradaic capacitive current.[\[58,59\]](#page-11-0) The electrocatalyst is endowed with strong electrical conductivity by virtue of its unique carbon nanotube architecture, which also provides a large electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of plate-like Sc@CoTe. Cyclic voltammetry (CVs) at different scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> was used to extract the Cdl from double-layer charging curves. The CVs were used in a narrow potential range (0.25–0.30 V vs RHE) for OER and UOR (Figure S7a–c,g,h, Supporting Information) and HER potential ranges (−0.12–0 V vs RHE) (Figure S7d–f, Supporting Information).

As shown in Figure 5d,e, the Cdl values were determined by measuring CV curves in the non-faradaic area with varying scan

speeds. For OER and UOR, the Cdl values of Sc@CoTe/CNT were ≈0.81 and 0.60 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which are better than the 0.74 and 0.69 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> of CoTe/CNT. The UOR application value was reduced due to the inclusion of 1 m KOH with 0.5 m urea. After examining OER/UOR, we examined the HER capacitance, as shown in Figure [5f,](#page-7-0) demonstrating that the Sc-doped CoTe catalyst has a better Cdl (≈0.01 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) than the CoTe catalyst (≈0.028 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2). Sc@CoTe/CNT catalystcomputed ESCA values (20.2, 15, and 0.25 cm<sup>2</sup> of OER, UOR, and HER, respectively) are displayed in Figure [5h,](#page-7-0) indicating a larger number of electroactive sites than in CoTe/CNT. Moreover, as seen in Figure [5i,](#page-7-0) the Sc@CoTe/CNT catalyst displayed a greater turnover frequency (TOF) statistic for the hydrogen evolution reaction, measuring 0.0757 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 200 mV, than the CoTe/CNT catalyst (0.0225 s<sup>−</sup>1). Continuous oxygen evolution process at 1.561 V Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT electrodes exhibits TOF values of 0.115 and 0.157 s<sup>−</sup>1. These findings provide more evidence that the CoTe and Sc@CoTe nanostructures on carbon nanotubes provide larger active sites both HER and OER.

Furthermore, the long-term OER, UOR, and HER stability of Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT was examined utilizing CV measurements at 500 mA current density for 1000 cycles (as illustrated in Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information). With slight potential variations in OER in a 1 M KOH solution, the stability CV and LSV curves before and after are contrasted in Figure S8a–d (Supporting Information). Simultaneously, we added 0.5 m urea to a 1 m KOH solution and performed a multistep chronopotentiometry test for Sc@CoTe/CNT. The results indicate that the CoTe/CNT electrocatalysts exhibited slight potential changes, as illustrated in Figure S8e,f (Supporting Information). Additionally, we investigated the stability of the HER using the CV test for 1000 cycles at a 500 mA current density in a 1 m KOH solution, as illustrated in Figure S9a–d (Supporting Information), which demonstrates significant potential variations between the stability test results before and after.

#### **2.3. Overall Water Splitting and Urea Splitting Performances**

**Figures [6](#page-9-0)**a and S10a (Supporting Information) provide a schematic illustration of the water with urea splitting devices used to evaluate the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT with a water electrolysis approach. Inspired by the promising HER, OER, and UOR activities, the synthetic nanocatalysts CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT were employed to fabricate electrolysis devices for water and urea. CV, LSV, and chronopotentiometry were employed in all techniques for the splitting of water and urea utilizing solutions of 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH + 0.5 m urea. The chemical capacities of the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalysts, as determined by the CV measurements, are displayed in Figure [6b,c.](#page-9-0) This figure also illustrates the positive potential of Sc@CoTe/CNT in contrast to CoTe/CNT in terms of both overall water and urea splitting devices (see Table S2, Supporting Information comparison of Urea and water splitting system). The LSV evaluations of the Sc@CoTe/CNT, CoTe/CNT, and Pt-C/IrO2 electrocatalyst performances are shown in Figure [6d,e,](#page-9-0) and Figure S10b (Supporting Information). The Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst produced overall respective water and urea splitting cell voltages of roughly 1.49 and 1.29 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, in contrast to the CoTe/CNT nanocatalyst 1.54 and 1.48 V at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which were comparable (1.39 V in KOH solution) to the commercially available Pt-C + IrO2. For the entire urea and water splitting processes, the potential shifts were 200 and 60 mV, respectively. This suggests that the generated nanocatalysts were more active in the urea-containing solution.

Chronopotentiometry investigations were also conducted to understand the durability of the instrument at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, as shown in Figure [6f.](#page-9-0) Over the course of 12 h, the chronopotentiometry data demonstrated stable potentials for the water and urea splitting devices for CoTe/CNT || CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT || Sc@CoTe/CNT. In addition, the overall water splitting efficiency was improved even in the absence of any possible modifications. Throughout the long-term stability test, gas bubbles were continually produced by the urea splitting process (Figure S10c,d, Supporting Information). Gases in the Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst were particularly dynamic on the HER and UOR sides.

The chemical composition of the Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalyst was investigated to ensure long-term stability, and the findings are shown in Figure S11a (Supporting Information). The same scanning spectra analysis method was used for the cathode and anode to obtain XPS spectra of all key elementals. Moreover, as the Co 2p spectrum in Figure [6g](#page-9-0) illustrates, robust base environments with less structural degradation led to superior electrocatalyst stability. Moreover, the Sc 2p and Te 3d spectra (Figure S11b,c, Supporting Information) demonstrated a small amount of deformation after the endurance test. Notably, the anode and cathode poles of Sc@CoTe/CNT were the only parts of the chemical composition analyzed for durability after splitting using urea. Additionally, TEM images show that after urea electrolysis, the morphological structures of the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts do not significantly vary, which further supports the heterostructures (Sc@CoTe/CNT) stability since it has well-sustained its structural integrity (Figures S12 and S13, Supporting Information). This is more typical in Figures S12c and S13c (Supporting Information) XRD examination regarding the CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT catalysts (020) and (111) crystal planes.

### **3. Conclusion**

Here, a large-scale, inexpensive hydrothermal method for creating CoTe and Sc@CoTe nanoparticles and plate-like structures on carbon nanotubes is presented. The produced CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT nanocatalysts had high surface area (ECSA), strong charge transfer capability, excellent electrochemical activities, high stability, synergistic effects, and efficient gas production. In a base medium, these nanocatalysts demonstrated strong activity as well as efficient OER, HER, and UOR. When used as the cathode and anode for the whole water/urea splitting process, the generated nanocatalyst Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT exhibited exceptional electrocatalytic activity. In contrast to catalysts described thus far, the device demonstrated a significant degree of durability (10 h) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density in alkaline and urea-containing alkaline solutions, while also reaching excellent cell voltages of 1.49 and 1.29 V (Sc@CoTe/CNT) and 1.54 and 1.48 V (CoTe/CNT) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density. Consequently, this research shows how well-suited scandium and cobalt with

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Schematic illustration of overall urea splitting with Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalyst for pre-oxidation. CV and LSV curves of the b,c) overall water splitting reaction and d,e) overall urea splitting reaction for CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT electrocatalysts, respectively. f) Combined overall water/urea splitting reaction for chronopotentiometric durability test of CoTe/CNT || CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT || Sc@CoTe/CNT for achieving a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> over 20 h in 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH + 0.5 m urea solutions. g) After stability XPS analysis of high-resolution Co 2p spectra.

tellurium atoms were for a trifunctional electrocatalyst role and the enormous promise those have for urea splitting to produce green hydrogen.

### **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: Sigma–Aldrich provided the following materials: ammonium fluoride (99.99%), sodium tellurite (99%), scandium (III) nitrate hydrate (Sigma–Aldrich, 99.9%), multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT, 70–80%), and cobalt (II) nitrate hexahydrate (98%). The following materials were acquired from Alfa Aesar: hydrazine monohydrate (80.0%), commercialized Pt/C and iridium oxide (IrO2) catalysts, and urea (99.0– 100.5%). Deionized (DI) water was generated in the lab using a routine procedure. Each chemical was of the highest quality for analytical reagents and was utilized without additional purification.

*Synthesis of CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT Nanocatalysts*: The Hummers' approach was adopted to oxidize MWCNTs.[\[60,61\]](#page-11-0) A magnetic stirrer was used to mix 10 mg of CNT with 16 mg of cobalt nitrate. After the cobalt-CNT solution had been agitated, 8 mg of sodium tellurite was added gradually and reduced with hydrazine. After adding 40 mL of deionized water and the structural tuning agent ammonium fluoride to the previously mentioned solution, the entire mixture was sonicated for 30 min. After the solution was moved into a 60 mL Teflon flask, it was hydrothermally heated to 180 °C for 10 h in a stainless-steel autoclave. The mixture was centrifuged in DI water, cleaned in ethanol, and dried overnight in an oven set to 60 °C. Subsequently, the final product (CoTe/CNT) was obtained by annealing it for 2 h at 300 °C in an Ar atmosphere.[\[62\]](#page-11-0)

The same procedure was used to add Sc atoms to the CoTe/CNT after it had been synthesized. The required amount of DI water was continuously mixed with 20 mg of without annealing CoTe/CNT. After that, 12 mg of scandium nitrate was dissolved in DI water and added to the previously mentioned solution drop by drop. The mixture was stirred continuously while adding a small amount of ammonium fluoride. The solution was stirred for 30 min before transferring to a 60 mL Teflon flask, which was autoclaved using the hydrothermal process at 180 °C for 10 h. The autoclave <span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

validation, visualization, formal analysis, writing the original draft, and reviewing and editing of the final manuscript were performed by R.S.K. Review of original draft and data visualization were performed by A.R.K. and H.J.K. Supervision of work, writing the original draft, and reviewing and editing of the final manuscript, visualization, validation, investigation, and

was made of stainless steel. After synthesis and washing with ethanol and DI water, the product was dried in an oven for one night at 60 °C. It was then annealed in an Ar atmosphere for 2 h at 300 °C. Last, CoTe/CNT and Sc@CoTe/CNT were utilized to investigate the electrochemical techniques and evaluate the various characterizations. The materials characterization process is provided in the Supporting Information file.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: Electrochemical testing was performed at ambient temperature using a Gamry apparatus with a reference electrode (Ag/AgCl, 1.0 m KOH), a counter electrode (a graphitic rod electrode with a diameter of 4 mm), and a working electrode (a produced catalyst). N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone liquid was subjected to sonication to disperse 1 mg of polyvinylidene fluoride and 3 mg of the produced catalyst. Next, a nickel foam electrode was covered with a catalyst ink dispersion, air-dried, and used for electrochemical reactions.

*OER, UOR, and HER Measurements*: Cyclic voltammetry (CV) was used for 30 cycles between 0 and 1.3 V versus RHE to study HER and OER. The polarization curve was obtained utilizing linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) scanning at 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in a 1.0 m KOH solution. Measurements of the electrolytic double-layer capacitive material were performed at different sweep rates between 10 and 100 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. An overpotential-biased DC voltage of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> made it possible to acquire electrical impedance spectra (EIS) from 0.01 Hz to 100 KHz. A 1000-cycle cyclic stability test was carried out over an extended period of time using a 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> current density.

To activate the electrodes for the UOR investigation, a CV test was conducted for 30 cycles using a solution of 1.0 m KOH with 0.5 m urea. The double layer capacitance was recorded with CV between 0.25 and 0.30 V versus RHE at scan rates of 10–100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> to evaluate the electrochemical activity of the catalysts. Electrode EIS measurements were performed at a potential of 1.3 V versus RHE and a frequency range of 100 KHz– 0.01 Hz. The electrochemical stability was evaluated by means of multistep chronopotentiometric experiments.

*Overall Water and Urea Splitting Assessments*: The dispersed catalyst ink was sprayed onto the nickel foam over an area of 1 cm × 1 cm, acting as either an anode or a cathode (with a loading mass of ≈1 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2). After being allowed to dry at room temperature, the catalyst electrode was employed as the working as well the counter electrodes. Using CV, LSV, and chronopotentiometric tests, the overall water and urea oxidation were assessed in 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH + 0.5 m urea solutions.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

This research was supported by the "Regional Innovation Strategy (RIS)" through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education (MOE)(2023RIS-008). This research was supported by the H2KOREA funded by the Ministry of Education (2024 Hydrogen Industry-002, Innovative Human Resources Development Project for Hydrogen Industry). This research was supported by Basic Science Research through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education (NRF-2021R1I1A1A01050905). This work was supported by BK21 FOUR Program by Jeonbuk National University Research Grant. [Correction added on December 20, 2024, after first online publication: Acknowledgement Section has been updated.]

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

Conceptualization, experimental, investigation, formal analysis, and writing and reviewing of the original draft were performed by S.T. Supervision,

# **Data Availability Statement**

funding acquisition were performed by D.J.Y.

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

hydrogen production, overall urea splitting, oxygen/hydrogen evolution reactions, pre-oxidation of Sc@CoTe/CNT and CoTe/CNT, urea oxidation reaction

> Received: July 15, 2024 Revised: August 26, 2024 Published online: September 24, 2024

16136829, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405939 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] S. J. Yao, S. K. Wolfson, B. K. Ahn, C. C. Liu, *Nature* **1973**, *241*, 471.
- [2] S. Chen, J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 3804.
- [3] G. Wang, Y. Ling, X. Lu, H. Wang, F. Qian, Y. Tong, Y. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 8215.
- [4] Y. Gorlin, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 13612.
- [5] P. Li, Y. Liu, M. A. Mushtaq, D. Yan, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2023**, *10*, 4650.
- [6] Y. Yang, K. Zhang, H. Lin, X. Li, H. C. Chan, L. Yang, Q. Gao, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 2357.
- [7] J. Kibsgaard, I. Chorkendorff, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 430.
- [8] G. A. Gebreslase, M. V. Martínez-Huerta, M. J. Lázaro, *J Energy Chem* **2022**, *67*, 101.
- [9] P. Li, Y. Lin, Z. Qi, D. Yan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 21078.
- [10] B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. García-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, F. P. García de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2016**, *352*, 333.
- [11] R. Santhosh Kumar, S. C. Karthikeyan, S. Ramakrishnan, S. Vijayapradeep, A. R. Kim, J. S. Kim, D. J. Yoo, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *451*, 138471.
- [12] T. Tang, S. Li, J. Sun, Z. Wang, J. Guan, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 8714.
- [13] A. Mariappan, P. Mannu, K. S. Ranjith, T. T. T. Nga, Y. K. Han, C. L. Dong, R. K. Dharman, T. H. Oh, *Small* **2024**, *n/a*, 2310112.
- [14] T. Li, Y. Lv, J. Su, Y. Wang, Q. Yang, Y. Zhang, J. Zhou, L. Xu, D. Sun, Y. Tang, *Adv. Sci.* **2017**, *4*, 1700226.
- [15] a) C. Luan, G. Liu, Y. Liu, L. Yu, Y. Wang, Y. Xiao, H. Qiao, X. Dai, X. Zhang, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 3875; b) S. Park, Y. Shao, J. Liu, Y. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci. 5*, 9331; c) M. Gong, W. Zhou, M. J. Kenney, R. Kapusta, S. Cowley, Y. Wu, B. Lu, M. C. Lin, D. Y. Wang, J. Yang, B. J. Hwang, H. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2012**, *54*, 11989.
- [16] M. A. Mushtaq, M. Ahmad, A. Shaheen, A. Mehmood, G. Yasin, M. Arif, Z. Ali, P. Li, S. N. Hussain, M. Tabish, A. Kumar, S. Ajmal, W. Raza, M. Akhtar, A. Saad, D. Yan, *ACS Mater. Lett.* **2024**, *6*, 3090.
- [17] a) W. Ge, L. Lin, S. Q. Wang, Y. Wang, X. Ma, Q. An, L. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 15100; b) N. Logeshwaran, I. R. Panneerselvam, S. Ramakrishnan, R. S. Kumar, A. R. Kim, Y. Wang, D. J. Yoo, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2105344; c) X. Ren, Y. Tong, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *49*, 489.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[18] a) S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S. Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H. B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q. H. Liu, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904; b) S. W. Tatarchuk, J. J. Medvedev, F. Li, Y. Tobolovskaya, A. Klinkova, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202209839.
- [19] a) B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906133; b) W. Xu, Z., Wu, S. Tao, *Energy Technology* **2016**, *4*, 1329.
- [20] X. D. Wang, Y. F. Xu, H. S. Rao, W. J. Xu, H. Y. Chen, W. X. Zhang, D. B. Kuang, C. Y. Su, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 1468.
- [21] W. Yan, D. Wang, L. A. Diaz, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**, *134*, 266.
- [22] J. S. A. Carneiro, J. Williams, A. Gryko, L. P. Herrera, E. Nikolla, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 516.
- [23] C. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zhuo, H. Ju, D. Li, Y. Guo, X. Wu, H. Li, T. Zhai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801775.
- [24] M. He, S. Han, Z. Xu, G. Liu, G. Qiao, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2022**, *47*, 11904.
- [25] X. Wen, Z. Duan, L. Bai, J. Guan, *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *431*, 265.
- [26] M. Xu, H. Sun, W. Wang, Y. Shen, W. Zhou, J. Wang, Z. G. Chen, Z. Shao, *J. Mater. Sci. Technol.* **2020**, *39*, 22.
- [27] T. P. Johansson, E. T. Ulrikkeholm, P. Hernandez-Fernandez, P. Malacrida, H. A. Hansen, A. S. Bandarenka, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, I. E. L. Stephens, I. Chorkendorff, *Top. Catal.* **2014**, *57*, 245.
- [28] Y. Wu, L. Ma, J. Wu, M. Song, C. Wang, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *n/a*, 2311698.
- [29] W. Zhou, M. Zhao, F. Liang, S. C. Smith, Z. Zhu, *Mater. Horiz.* **2015**, *2*, 495.
- [30] U. De Silva, J. Masud, N. Zhang, Y. Hong, W. P. R. Liyanage, M. Asle Zaeem, M. Nath, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 7608.
- [31] S. C. Karthikeyan, S. Prabhakaran, R. S. Kumar, S. Ramakrishnan, A. R. Kim, D. H. Kim, D. J. Yoo, *Mater. Today Nano* **2023**, *24*, 100412.
- [32] X. Wang, X. Huang, W. Gao, Y. Tang, P. Jiang, K. Lan, R. Yang, B. Wang, R. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 3684.
- [33] J. Jia, J. Wu, J. Dong, J. Lin, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *185*, 184.
- [34] X. Liu, K. Deng, P. Liu, X. Lv, W. Tian, K. Ma, H. Li, J. Ji, *Appl. Catal., B* **2024**, *343*, 123470.
- [35] R. Santhosh Kumar, D. Sayfiddinov, S. Tamilarasi, D. J. Yoo, *Nanoscale* **2024**, *16*, 14861.
- [36] H. J. Kim, R. Santhosh Kumar, S. Tamilarasi, S. Vijayapradeep, H. B. Kwak, D. J. Yoo, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *489*, 151003.
- [37] R. Santhosh Kumar, S. Ramakrishnan, S. Prabhakaran, A. R. Kim, D. R. Kumar, D. H. Kim, D. J. Yoo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 1999.
- [38] L. Yang, K. Xie, L. Wu, Q. Qin, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, T. Xie, Y. Wu, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 21417.
- [39] X. Xu, Y. Zhang, H. Sun, J. Zhou, Z. Liu, Z. Qiu, D. Wang, C. Yang, Q. Zeng, Z. Peng, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2100272.

- [40] M. A. Mushtaq, A. Kumar, G. Yasin, M. Tabish, M. Arif, S. Ajmal, W. Raza, S. Naseem, J. Zhao, P. Li, H. G. Ali, S. Ji, D. Yan, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2310431.
- [41] R. Santhosh Kumar, P. Muthu Austeria, C. Sagaya Selvam Neethinathan, S. Ramakrishnan, K. Sekar, A. R. Kim, D. H. Kim, P. J. Yoo, D. J. Yoo, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *641*, 158469.
- [42] W. Kang, R. Xie, Y. Wang, C. An, C. Li, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 24463.
- [43] C. Min, Z. He, H. Song, D. Liu, W. Jia, J. Qian, Y. Jin, L. Guo, *Appl. Sci.* **2019**, *9*, 1.
- [44] S. Wu, G. Wen, J. Wang, J. Rong, B. Zong, R. Schlögl, D. S. Su, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2014**, *4*, 4183.
- [45] R. S. Kumar, P. Mannu, S. Prabhakaran, T. T. T. Nga, Y. Kim, D. H. Kim, J. L. Chen, C. L. Dong, D. J. Yoo, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2303525.
- [46] Y. Zhou, L. Zheng, D. Yang, H. Yang, X. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101886.
- [47] R. S. Kumar, S. Prabhakaran, S. Ramakrishnan, S. C. Karthikeyan, A. R. Kim, D. H. Kim, D. J. Yoo, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207096.
- [48] X. W. Chang, S. Li, L. Wang, L. Dai, Y. P. Wu, X. Q. Wu, Y. Tian, S. Zhang, D. S. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *n/a*, 2313974.
- [49] X. Xu, H. Ullah, M. Humayun, L. Li, X. Zhang, M. Bououdina, D. P. Debecker, K. Huo, D. Wang, C. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2303986.
- [50] M. B. Poudel, A. R. Kim, S. Ramakrishan, N. Logeshwaran, S. K. Ramasamy, H. J. Kim, D. J. Yoo, *Composites, Part B* **2022**, *489*, 110339.
- [51] W. Ye, Y. Yang, X. Fang, M. Arif, X. Chen, D. Yan, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 18085.
- [52] K. Liu, J. Cheng, Y. Yu, Z. Sui, F. Guo, S. Lei, L. Zhang, M. Li, Y. Yun, *Surfaces and Interfaces* **2024**, *45*, 103950.
- [53] J. Y. Zhang, T. He, M. Wang, R. Qi, Y. Yan, Z. Dong, H. Liu, H. Wang, B. Y. Xia, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *60*, 894.
- [54] L. Yang, R. He, X. Wang, T. Yang, T. Zhang, Y. Zuo, X. Lu, Z. Liang, J. Li, J. Arbiol, P. R. Martínez-Alanis, X. Qi, A. Cabot, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *115*, 108714.
- [55] Y. Zhou, Y. Kuang, G. Hu, X. Wang, L. Feng, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2022**, *27*, 100831.
- [56] M. Kim, K. Min, D. Ko, H. Seong, S. E. Shim, S. H. Baeck, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *650*, 1851.
- [57] Z. Guo, W. Ye, X. Fang, J. Wan, Y. Ye, Y. Dong, D. Cao, D. Yan, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2019**, *6*, 687.
- [58] Q. Hu, B. Zhu, G. Li, X. Liu, H. Yang, C. D. Sewell, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, C. He, Z. Lin, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *66*, 104194.
- [59] K. Zhang, C. Liu, N. Graham, G. Zhang, W. Yu, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *87*, 106217.
- [60] Y. Liang, H. Wang, P. Diao, W. Chang, G. Hong, Y. Li, M. Gong, L. Xie, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Z. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 15849.
- [61] N. A. Fathy, *RSC Adv.* **2017**, *7*, 28535.
- [62] T. H. Lu, C. J. Chen, Y. R. Lu, C. L. Dong, R. S. Liu, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 28093.