---
source: Wang 等 - 2024 - Photo‐Excited High‐Spin State Ni (III) Species in Mo‐Doped Ni3 S2 for Efficien.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 72.698s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:39:57.487786Z
---

# Photo-Excited High-Spin State Ni (III) Species in Mo-Doped Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> for Efficient Urea Oxidation Reaction

Peichen Wang, Wei Zheng, Yafei Qu, Naiyuan Duan, Yang Yang, Dongdong Wang, Hui Wang, and Qianwang Chen\*

Designing robust catalysts for increasing the sluggish kinetics of the urea oxidation reaction (UOR) is challenging. Herein, the regulation of spin states for metal active sites by photoexcitation to facilitate the adsorption of urea and intermediates is demonstrated. Mo-doped nickel sulfide nanoribbon arrays (Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>@NMF) with excellent light-trapping capacity are successfully prepared. Under AM 1.5G illumination, the activity of the Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>@NMF exhibits a 50% improvement in the UOR current. Compared with those under dark conditions, Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>@NMF achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.315  $V_{RHE}$  for UOR and 1.32  $V_{cell}$  for urea electrolysis, which are decreases of 15 and 80 mV, respectively. The electron spin resonance, in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy analysis and density functional theory calculations reveal that illumination led to the formation of Ni<sup>3+</sup> active sites in a high-spin state, which strengthens the d-p orbital hybridization of Ni-N, hence facilitating the adsorption of urea. C-N cleavage of the \*CONN intermediate is further inhibited, which promotes the oxidation of urea molecules via the active N2 pathway, thereby accelerating the UOR rate.

#### 1. Introduction

The electrochemical urea oxidation reaction (UOR), as a substitute for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in the hydrogen production process, is regarded as a potential organic small molecule oxidation reaction. Theoretically, the UOR has a noticeable equilibrium potential [0.37 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode(RHE)], which is much lower than the 1.23 V of the OER. Therefore, the application of the UOR in industrial alkaline water electrolysis can greatly reduce energy loss, and a lower operating potential is also conducive to

P. Wang, W. Zheng, Y. Qu, N. Duan, Y. Yang, D. Wang, Q. Chen Hefei National Research Center for Physical Sciences at the Microscale and Department of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China E-mail: cqw@ustc.edu.cn

H. Wang, Q. Chen The High Magnetic Field Laboratory Hefei Institutes of Physical Science Chinese Academy of Sciences Hefei 230031, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202403107

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202403107

avoiding the chlorine evolution reaction (1.37  $V_{RHE}$ ),<sup>[2]</sup> which provides the UOR with compelling commercial prospects.

However, high UOR performance is hindered by sluggish kinetics and limited onset potential. The primary reason is the complex reaction pathways of the UOR. The adsorbed urea molecules undergo intramolecular N-N binding in the CO2&N2 pathway or C-N breakage in the  $CNO^{-}\&NO_{X}^{-}$  (x = 2, 3) pathway.[3] Therefore, the UOR involves the adsorption of various intermediates such as \* $CON_2H_V$  (x = 0-3), nitrogen species (\*NH<sub>2</sub>, \*NOOH, \*NO, etc.) and carbon species (\*CO, \*COOH, etc.). Moreover, the occurrence of the OER competition reaction results in the significant occupation of the active sites by OH-, leading to a decrease in UOR performance.[4] To overcome the aforementioned challenges, a large number of advanced

heteroatom-doped catalysts (NiCoGe, [5] Ni-CuO, [6] CoV-NiS $_2$ , [7] Ni-WOx, [8] etc.) and heterojunction catalysts (Ni $_3$ N/Mo $_2$ N, [9] CoS $_2$ /MoS $_2$ , [10] CoMn/CoMn $_2$ O $_4$ , [11] etc.) have been prepared to tune the electronic structure of the active site. The optimized dorbital of transition metal (TM) sites typically exhibits enhanced hybridization with the p-orbital of adsorbed urea molecules, which accelerates electron transfer between the active sites and urea molecules. [1c,12]

Recently, the photo-assisted electrocatalytic system has garnered attention for its potential to tune the local surface electron density by a light field.[13] The localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) effect in plasmonic nanostructures, along with the interband/intraband electron transitions in semiconductors, can generate high-energy electrons through the excitation of photons.[14] The transition of high-energy electrons to orbitals with energies exceeding the Fermi level reduces the occupation of antibonding orbitals, which facilitates d-p orbital hybridization between TM sites and adsorbed species.<sup>[15]</sup> In addition, the TM sites may change from a low-spin (LS) state to a high-spin (HS) state during the transition of excited electrons, which is known as a light-induced spin state change (LISC).[16] This LS-to-HS transition of the TM active site has been demonstrated to have a substantial impact on electrocatalytic processes.<sup>[17]</sup> Therefore, boosting the UOR performance of Ni-based catalysts by light field is feasible. The transition from LS Ni  $^{3+}(t_{2g}^{\phantom{2}6}~e_g^{\phantom{2}1})$  to HS Ni  $^{3+}(t_{2g}^{\phantom{2}5}~e_g^{\phantom{2}2})$ may strengthen the coupling between the Ni d-orbital and the N

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Mo-Ni3S2@Foam. b) HR-TEM images of the Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbon. c) STEM-EDS mapping of Ni, S, and Mo in the Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbon. d) Ni K-edge XANES spectra of Ni foil, NiO, Ni3S2 and Mo-Ni3S2. e) Ni 2p XPS spectra of Ni3S2 and Mo-Ni3S2. f) Charge density difference of Mo-Ni3S2. g) The electron spin resonance (ESR) of Mo-Ni3S2.

p-orbital in urea molecules, thereby promoting urea adsorption and facilitating efficient charge transfer during reactions.

Herein, Mo-doped Ni3S2 was prepared as a UOR catalyst. Mo was selected because, on the one hand, it can regulate the d-band center of Ni sites and improve the Ni-based catalytic activity.[\[18\]](#page-9-0) On the other hand, it can narrow the bandgap of Ni3S2, further improving the light absorption performance of Ni3S2. Photoexcited spin-state vibrations were investigated by electron spin resonance (ESR), and the mechanism was characterized by in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and in situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), which revealed that high-spin state Ni(III) could significantly promote the UOR.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. The Physical Characterization of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF**

Mo-Ni3S2@NMF was synthesized by a one-step solvothermal method (**Figure 1**a). The foam covered with nickel-molybdenum alloy (NMF) not only acts as a nickel and molybdenum source but also acts as a substrate for the in situ growth of Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbons in a high-temperature ethanol solution with sulfide ions (S2<sup>−</sup>). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns showed the clear characteristic peaks of Ni3S2 (JCPDS No. 44–1418) and the NiMo Foam (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The morphology of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMFs was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and atomic force microscope (AFM), as shown in Figure 1b and Figures S2 and S3 (Supporting Information), respectively. The Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbons tens of microns in length, which are ≈60 nm thick and can link with each other into wider nanoribbons, grow uniformly on NMF. High-magnification TEM images showed that the center and margin of the Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbons consisted of a Ni3S2 (003) crystal plane and a Ni3S2 (104) crystal plane with interplanar distances of 0.246 and 0.170 nm, respectively. A clear grain boundary can be observed between the (003) and (104) crystal planes. HRTEM results show that the lattice parameters of Mo-Ni3S2 are larger than that of Ni3S2 [0.1678 nm for (104) and 0.2379 nm for (003), PDF 01-073-0698]. XRD patterns of Mo-Ni3S2 and Ni3S2 (Figure S4, Supporting Information) show that the diffraction peaks of Ni3S2 (101), (110), (003) and (300) negatively shift to a lower angle region by 0.05°, 0.09°, 0.09°, and 0.09° after the introduction of Mo. In addition, as shown in the element mapping images (Figure 1c), Mo was uniformly distributed in the Ni3S2 nanoribbon. The results of both Energydispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and inductively coupled plasma (ICP) indicated that the atomic proportion of Mo was ≈3.0 at.%. The above results proved that Mo was successfully doped into the Ni3S2 nanoribbons. The structure transformation of the catalyst during UOR was also characterized. The characteristic peaks of Ni3S2 are maintained after UOR in XRD pattern (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Raman spectrum of Mo-Ni3S2 after UOR **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 45, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202403107 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

shows some new peaks located at 465 and 562 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which can be assigned to the doublet of NiOOH (Figure S6, Supporting Information).[\[19\]](#page-9-0) Therefore, we infer that Ni3S2 phase is partially transformed into NiOOH phase during UOR, which is considered to be the real active species. HRTEM (Figure S7, Supporting Information) and STEM-EDS mapping (Figure S8, Supporting Information) further graphically reveal this transformation. the original nanoribbon morphology of Ni3S2 were maintained after the UOR, but some tiny nanosheets were generated at the edge of the nanoribbon.[\[20\]](#page-9-0) The interplanar distance and element composition indicate that the main phase of nanosheets is -NiOOH.

The electronic structure and elemental composition of Mo-Ni3S2 were further characterized by X-ray absorption near-edge structure spectra (XANES) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The Mo 3d XPS signal can be detected in Mo-Ni3S2 (Figure S9c, Supporting Information), which supports the doping of Mo in the Ni3S2 nanoribbon. According to the electronegativity order of S(2.58) *>* Ni(1.92) *>* Mo(1.47), Mo doping will increase the valence charge of the surrounding Ni and S sites compared to that of Ni3S2. Unfortunately, there is only a slight negative shift in the Ni K-edge position in the XANES spectrum (Figure [1d\)](#page-1-0) and in the Ni 2p peak in the XPS spectrum (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0), which may be caused by the limited Mo doping content and the separation between metal sites in Ni3S2. [\[21\]](#page-9-0) Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to further analyze the charge transfer of Mo-Ni3S2 at the atomic level. As shown in Figure [1e,](#page-1-0) the charge density around the doped Mo atom decreases, while the charge density of the adjacent S and Ni atoms increases. The average Bader charges of the Ni and S atoms in Ni3S2 are 9.617 and 6.574, respectively. The Bader charges of the Mo atoms, adjacent Ni atoms and S atoms in Mo-Ni3S2 are 5.031, 9.684, and 6.671, respectively. This result shows that Mo lost 0.97 valence electrons and transferred 0.1 and 0.066 electrons to the nearest S and Ni atoms, respectively (Figure S10, Supporting Information). This order of magnitude of electron transfer is sufficient to affect the catalytic performance of the active site.[\[22\]](#page-9-0) In addition, the ESR of Mo-Ni3S2 was measured under illumination/dark conditions (Figure [1g\)](#page-1-0). The resonances at g ≈2.13, 2.23, and 2.35 can be ascribed to Ni(III) species, and the resonances at g ≈2.52 can be ascribed to Mo(VI) species.[\[23\]](#page-9-0) Under AM1.5G illumination, the ESR signal was enhanced, indicating an increase in the number of single spin electrons.[\[14a,24\]](#page-8-0) The Ni(III) signal shifted to the high spin state (S = 3/2), which confirmed the LISC of the Ni site.[\[23a\]](#page-9-0) The specific g-factor values of Ni(III) in Mo-Ni3S2 and reference are shown in Table S2 (Supporting Information).

#### **2.2. Excellent Light-Trapping Capacity of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF**

A series of optical characterizations were used to evaluate the light-trapping ability of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF. As shown in **Figure 2**[a,](#page-3-0) the Tauc plots derived from the UV–Vis absorption spectra show that Mo doping reduces the direct bandgap (from 0.45 to 0.23 eV).[\[25\]](#page-9-0) A narrow bandgap facilitates full-spectrum absorption and promotes photoexcited electron relaxation through a nonradiative route.[\[14c,26\]](#page-8-0) The band structure of Mo-Ni3S2 simulated by DFT also proves that Mo doping narrows the bandgap of Ni3S2 (Figure S14, Supporting Information). Figure [2b,c](#page-3-0) shows the transmission and diffuse reflection of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF and bare foam in the range of 200–2500 nm, respectively. The results demonstrate that the Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbon array significantly improves the transmission absorption and reduces the diffuse reflection over the test range, which verifies the excellent light-trapping capacity of Mo-Ni3S2. In addition, the unique hairlike morphology led to light reflection between surfaces, further improving the utilization of radiation. The finite difference time domain (FDTD) simulations were used to investigate the effect of different surface morphologies on the light-trapping capacity. As shown in Figure [2d,](#page-3-0) we constructed a model of nanoribbon arrays, nanosphere arrays, and flat surfaces with the same materials (the model construction parameters and entire graphics are shown in Figure S15, Supporting Information). The FDTD results showed that the nanoribbon array model has a greater radiation utilization area than the nanosphere and flat surface models. Moreover, the photothermal conversion caused by phonon vibration causes the model to generate a local temperature field. Under 1 sun (96 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2) illumination, the maximum temperature of the nanoribbon array model reached 355 K, which is much higher than the maximum temperature of the nanosphere array (300 K) and the flat surface (297 K). We monitored the temperature of the Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbon array, Ni3S2 arrays and bare foam with an infrared camera under simulated sunlight, and the results are shown in the temperature change curve (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0) and thermal images (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). The Mo-Ni3S2@NMF rapidly heated to 177 °C under the illumination of 1.5 G AM, which is higher than that of Ni3S2@NF (154 °C) and bare foam (67 °C). These results are in agreement with the FDTD simulation results, which prove that the optimized bandgap and special morphology give Mo-Ni3S2@NMF excellent light trapping ability. In addition, the temperature of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF in the electrolyte was also measured (Figure S16, Supporting Information) to clarify the effect of temperature on the UOR performance. Under 1 sun illumination, the electrode temperature increased by 10 K in the electrolyte. Compared with the UOR performance at different temperatures (Figure S17, Supporting Information), 10 K temperature increase improved the UOR performance by only 7.2%, indicating that the temperature increase is not the main source of activity improvement.

#### **2.3. Photo-Assisted Strategy for Boosting the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF UOR Performance**

First, the intrinsic UOR performance of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF was evaluated. Linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) and chronopotentiometry (CP) were performed in a 1 m KOH + 0.33 m urea electrolyte (**Figure 3**[a,b\)](#page-4-0). To reach the UOR current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the requested potentials are 1.33 and 1.38 V, respectively, which are much lower than the potential required in a 1 m KOH electrolyte (<sup>100</sup> = 1.60 V). In the long-term stability test of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF, the potential to reach 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> increased by 6.1% after 72 h, indicating satisfactory stability at a high current density. In addition, compared with the contrast samples (Ni3S2@NF and NMF), Mo-Ni3S2@NMF has a more negative onset potential (Figure S18A, Supporting Information), a smaller Tafel slope (Figure S18B, Supporting Information), a larger electrochemical active surface area (Figure S19C, Supporting Information), and

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Direct bandgap plot of Mo-Ni3S2 and Ni3S2. b) Transmission spectra and c) diffuse reflection of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF and bare foam. d) FDTD temperature field simulations of nanoribbon arrays and nanosphere arrays. e) The temperature change curves with respect to time for Mo-Ni3S2@NMF, Ni3S2@NF and bare foam. f) Thermal images of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF and bare foam.

a smaller reaction impedance (Figure S19D, Supporting Information), which demonstrate the excellent UOR performance of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF.

Remarkably, the UOR performance of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF was significantly improved by photo-assisted strategy. Under AM 1.5G illumination, the potentials to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> were only 1.315 and 1.344 V, respectively (Figure [3a\)](#page-4-0), corresponding to decreases of 15 and 36 mV, compared to those under dark conditions. Figure [3c](#page-4-0) shows that the UOR current density increases by ≈50% under AM 1.5G illumination, and the current density changes rapidly in response to illumination. As shown in Figure S20 (Supporting Information), the UOR performance changes of Ni3S2@NF and NMF under illumination are 13.2% and 7.4%, respectively, demonstrating the key role of Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbon arrays in the photo-assisted strategy. To distinguish this photoassisted phenomenon from photocatalysis and photoelectrocatalysis, the *I*–*T* curves around the reaction potential were obtained (Figure [3d\)](#page-4-0). The change in current density is not obvious before the onset potential, but it gradually becomes noticeable as the reaction progresses, which proves that the improvement is caused by the enhancement of electrocatalytic activity rather than by photocatalysis.[\[13a,27\]](#page-8-0) The Tafel slope of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF with illumination was 23.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which was lower than the Tafel slope without illumination (28.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), proving the enhancement of the reaction kinetics under illumination (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0). Figure [3f](#page-4-0) shows that the electrochemical double layer capacitance (Cdl) increased slightly under illumination (from 5.60 to 6.43 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2). According to the OER LSV curves (Figure S22, Supporting Information), the area of the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> → Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> reduction peak did not increase, but the peak location moved to a negative potential. This suggests that UOR current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> AM 1.5G illumination does not increase the number of active sites (Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) but promotes the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup>. [\[14a\]](#page-8-0) In addition, we found that illumination can also promote Mo-Ni3S2@NMF activity toward the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) (Figure S23, Supporting Information). However, the effect of illumination on the HER was limited compared with that on the UOR. Under AM 1.5G, the HER current density increases by ≈ 15%, and <sup>100</sup> decreases by 26 mV. Eventually, the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF acted as the cathode and anode of the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) LSV polarization curves of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF for the UOR and OER, Ni3S2@NF for the UOR and Mo-Ni3S2@NMF for the UOR under AM 1.5G, with 80% IR correction. b) Long-term stability test of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. c) The I-T curve of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF; the red areas represent the time range with AM 1.5G illumination. d) I–T curves of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF at 1.22, 1.32, and 1.40 V, with intermittent AM 1.5G illumination. e) The Tafel plots and f) double-layer capacitance Cdl of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF with/without AM 1.5G illumination. g) Polarization curves for urea electrolysis with/without AM 1.5G illumination and water electrolysis, with 80% correction. h) Comparison of the onset potentials of Mo-Ni3S2@NMF and recently reported works in UOR and urea electrolysis cells.

urea electrolysis cell (Figure 3g). The Mo-Ni3S2@NMF showed a very low onset potential of 1.32 V and required 1.48 V to reach 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> under illumination, which is a significant improvement compared to that in the dark condition (<sup>10</sup> = 1.40 V; <sup>100</sup> = 1.60 V). As shown in Figure 3h, the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF has excellent performance compared to recently reported catalysts, which shows that the photo-assisted strategy is an effective way to improve urea electrolysis performance.[\[9,11,20c,28\]](#page-8-0)

#### **2.4. Mechanism Studies of Photo-Assisted Strategy for the UOR**

In order to investigate the reaction process of the UOR and the possible mechanism of the illumination intensification effect. In situ FT-IR was used to detect the adsorbed species and intermediates during the UOR (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-5-0). We used a gold-plated attenuated total refraction (ATR) Si crystal coated with Mo-Ni3S2 as the working electrode. The IR radiation passes through the ATR crystal by total reflection, which is unaffected by the additional AM 1.5G illumination. As shown in Figure [4b,](#page-5-0) the UOR current suddenly decreased by half when the illumination was removed, indicating the intensification of the UOR under AM 1.5G. Figure [4c–f](#page-5-0) shows the FT-IR spectra of Mo-Ni3S2 with and without illumination in the potential range from 1.2 to 1.7 V, respectively. In the FT-IR spectra without illumination, the bands at 3380, 2170, and 1320 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> can be assigned to the N-H of \*NH,[\[29\]](#page-9-0) CNO<sup>−</sup>[\[5,30\]](#page-8-0) and N-O of nitrite,[\[31\]](#page-9-0) respectively. As the potential becomes progressively positive, the intensity of these bands

16138289, 2024. 45, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/doi/10/02/smll.202403107 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (1998). The common Library of Common Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library of Common Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. In situ FT-IR spectrum of Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> for the UOR. a) Schematic diagram of the optical path and device. b) Current curves of the in situ electrolytic cell. In situ FT-IR spectra of Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> without illumination at c) 3000–4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> and d) 1200–2200 cm<sup>-1</sup>. In situ FT-IR spectra of Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> with illumination at e)  $1200-2200 \text{ cm}^{-1}$ . f)  $3000-4000 \text{ cm}^{-1}$ .

increases significantly, reflecting the oxidation pathway of urea to  $NO_2^-$  and  $CNO^-$  (\*NHCONH<sub>2</sub> + 2OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  \*NH + 2H<sub>2</sub>O (l) +  $CNO^{-}$  (aq) + e<sup>-</sup>; \*NH + 5OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$   $NO_{2}^{-}$  + 3H<sub>2</sub>O (l) + 4e<sup>-</sup>).<sup>[5,31]</sup> In addition, the  $v_{\rm C-O}$  of \*COOH (located at 1340 cm<sup>-1</sup>) proves the occurrence of the CO<sub>2</sub> reaction path.<sup>[29,31]</sup> Under illumination, the bands related to the nitrate reaction pathway are significantly suppressed, which indicates that the assistance of illumination is unfavorable for C-N cleavage. To further verify this assertion, NO2- was also detected by ion chromatography (IC). The faradic efficiencies of NO<sub>2</sub> with and without illumination were 7.8% and 24.2%, respectively (Figure \$24, Supporting Information). This phenomenon can be attributed to the enhanced adsorption of urea and OH- on the catalyst surface during UOR under illumination. The bands at 1433 and 1286 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be assigned to the stretching and bending vibration of the C-N of the (-CO-NH-) group, respectively.[28,30] The signals of both bands can be observed under illumination, indicating that a large amount of urea is adsorbed on the surface. In addition, the band located at 3730 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be assigned to nonhydrogen-bonded OH<sup>-</sup>.[32] Under illumination, a large number of OH<sup>-</sup> groups are adsorbed on the catalyst surface at a lower potential, and OHis gradually consumed by the reaction with increasing reaction rate. Interestingly, the photothermal effect is not conducive to

the adsorption of reactive species due to the increase in temperature. Therefore, we suggest that illumination excites electrons near the Fermi surface of Ni and improves the adsorption of urea and OH-, which will be discussed later in the DFT results. In addition, the in situ FT-IR spectrum of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> was also obtained. As shown in Figure \$25 (Supporting Information), a similar urea enhanced adsorption phenomenon was also observed for Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, but illumination had no significant effect on the intensity of the CNO band, which also indicated that the change in the reaction path was the main reason for the increase in the UOR current.

Combined with the results of FT-IR and previous work, we posit the existence of two primary UOR pathways for Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>@NMF:<sup>[31,33]</sup> i) The N atoms in \*CONN undergo intramolecular N-N coupling to form N2, while the CO adsorbed on the catalyst surface is subsequently oxidized to \*COOH and ultimately converted into  $CO_2$  molecules  $(CO(NH_2)_2 + 6OH^- \rightarrow$  $CO_2(g) + N_2(g) + 5H_2O(l) + 6e^-$ ). (ii) \*CONH<sub>2</sub>N transforms into  $^*$ NH $_2$  and CNO $^-$  by C–N cleavage.  $^*$ NH $_2$  is subsequently oxidized to form  $NO_2^-$  (CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> + 8OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  CNO<sup>-</sup> +  $NO_2^-$  + 6H<sub>2</sub>O + 6e<sup>-</sup>). DFT calculations were used to evaluate the thermodynamic potential of these two paths. According to our HRTEM and Raman spectrum, Mo-Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> will be partially transformed into Mo-NiOOH during the UOR. Moreover, some recent works have

16138289, 2024. 45, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/doi/10/02/smll.202403107 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (1998). The common Library of Common Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library of Common Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on International Conditions

**Figure 5.** a) The free energy diagram for urea oxidation to  $N_2$  and  $CO_2$  of Mo-NiOOH. The red, dark blue, light blue, purple, white and black spheres represent O, Ni, N, Mo, H, and C, respectively. b) The free energy diagram for urea oxidation to  $CNO^-$  and  $NO_2^-$  of Mo-NiOOH. c) Schematic illustration of the alteration of UOR pathways by HS Ni<sup>3+</sup> sites. d) PDOS plots of LS Mo-NiOOH and HS Mo-NiOOH. e) The absorption energy for urea of HS/LS Mo-NiOOH.

suggested that the NiOOH model rather than the synthetic Nibased catalyst model is more consistent with the real UOR process and can obtain reasonable calculation results.[19] Therefore, the Mo-NiOOH slab model was constructed for further DFT calculations (Figure S26, Supporting Information). First, the adsorption of urea molecules onto nearby NiNi or NiMo sites through NN, NO, and O bonding was evaluated. NN bonding was ultimately selected because of its more thermodynamically appropriate nature (Figure \$27, Supporting Information). The free energy diagrams through the N<sub>2</sub> and NO<sub>2</sub> pathways are shown in Figure 5a,b. For the N2 path, \*CONHN removing one proton to oxidize to \*CONN is the rate determining step (RDS) with an energy barrier of 1.31 eV, which is fairly close to the onset potential in the experiment. For the NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> path, the subsequent oxidation process of \*NH2 to NO2 has multiple steps with a larger energy barrier. That is, \*NH<sub>2</sub> oxidizes to \*NH (1.71 eV), \*NO oxidizes to \*NOOH (2.42 eV) and NO<sub>2</sub> - (1.42 eV) desorbs. The obtained results demonstrate that the subsequent oxidation process of \*NH<sub>2</sub> not only encompasses a greater number of reaction steps but also needs to overcome the higher energy barrier compared to the \*CO oxidation process. Therefore, the activity of the UOR is improved when more urea molecule oxidation occurs via the N<sub>2</sub> pathway (Figure 5c). The positive effect of Mo heteroatom doping on the UOR is shown in Figure S28 (Supporting Information).  $\beta$ -NiOOH without Mo doping has a larger energy barrier of 1.81 eV in the electron-proton coupled transfer step.

In addition, the effect of illumination on the urea adsorption of Mo-NiOOH was also investigated. The low-spin (LS) state of Ni<sup>3+</sup> has only one unpaired electron located in the e<sub>o</sub> orbital. And some paired electrons in lower-energy  $t_{\rm 2g}$  orbitals can undergo a photon transition to a higher-energy  $e_{\rm g}$  or bital, resulting in the formation of high-spin (HS) Ni<sup>3+</sup>. DFT calculations of the HS Mo-NiOOH. The "NUPDOWN" keyword was used to simulate the high-spin state of Ni<sup>3+</sup>, which is set to the number of Ni atoms \* 3.<sup>[34]</sup> According to orbital symmetry conservation, the  $d_{z2}$ ,  $d_{xz}$  and  $d_{vz}$  orbitals of Ni are considered to have stronger overlap with the p orbital of adsorbed N species, and the proximity of these orbitals to the Fermi level will facilitate the efficient exchange of reaction charge. [35] Therefore, the electrons in the  $d_{yz}$ ,  $d_{yz}$  and  $d_{yz}$  orbitals of HS NiOOH moving toward the Fermi level will strengthen the interaction between Ni and N, which is conducive to urea adsorption at the Ni<sup>3+</sup> site (Figure 5d). As shown in Figure 5e, the urea adsorption energy of HS Mo-NiOOH (-1.232 eV) is greater than that of LS Mo-NiOOH (-0.886 eV). This result shows that the photoactivated HS Ni<sup>3+</sup> site is more conducive to urea adsorption, which is also consistent with the FT-IR results.

In situ EIS is also a powerful way to investigate the properties of catalysts and the electrolyte-catalyst interface, which could offer additional support for the aforementioned hypothesis. The Bode-phase plots of the Mo-Ni $_3$ S $_2$ @NMF tested in a 1  $_{\rm M}$  KOH electrolyte are shown in Figure S29 (Supporting Information). When the potential exceeds 1.50 V, a complete phase peak can

**Figure 6.** In situ EIS of Mo-Ni3S2 in a potential window from 1.20 to 1.40 V. Bode-phase plots of Mo-Ni3S2 in 1 m KOH + 0.33 urea electrolyte a) without illumination and b) with AM 1.5G illumination. c) The equivalent circuit model for simulating UOR processes. The gray, blue, and red areas represent the electrode portion, the catalyst-electrolyte interface portion, and the electrolyte portion, respectively. d) The equivalent resistances curves to the potentials of the reaction charge transfer process resistance (Rct) and electrolyte resistance (*R*s).

be seen in the low frequency region, indicating the occurrence of the OER.[\[36\]](#page-9-0) After adding urea to the electrolyte, a complete phase peak appeared at a potential of 1.30 V (**Figure 6**a). Under AM 1.5G illumination, the potential that represents the beginning of the UOR further decreased by 0.02 V (Figure 6b), which is consistent with the results of the electrochemical tests. To further quantitatively assess the impact of illumination-assisted UOR. We constructed an equivalent circuit in the UOR process with two parts (Figure 6c) [\[37\]](#page-9-0) i) Rct and CPEct represent the reaction charge transfer process at the catalyst-electrolyte interface. which is related to the phase change of the catalyst and the adsorption of the reaction species. ii) Rs represents the uncompensated resistance in the electrolyte. The Zview fitting results (Figure 6d) showed that before UOR occurred (1.20 VRHE-1.26 VRHE), the illumination significantly reduced Rct, which corresponds to a decrease in the UOR onset overpotential under illumination. In the UOR potential region (1.28 VRHE-1.36 VRHE), the Rct with illumination is also lower than the Rct without illumination, which proves that illumination accelerates the rate of charge transfer in the UOR process. According to the above DFT and FT-IR results, this phenomenon is related to the enhancement of the adsorption between the active species (urea and OH<sup>−</sup>) and the catalyst by illumination. In addition, prolonged illumination is required to increase the electrolyte temperature to improve the UOR performance, thereby resulting in a negligible change in Rs at 1.20 V. Subsequently, as the electrolyte was gradually heated by the photothermal field, the RS decreased, which indicates that the instantaneous performance change was not caused by temperature.

In conclusion, according to the aforementioned DFT and ESR results, the presence of illumination-induced HS Ni3<sup>+</sup> sites are considered to be the primary cause of the enhancement of UOR performance. The excited active site facilitates the adsorption of urea and accelerates charge transfer with reactive species. In addition, it also leads to the suppression of the thermodynamically inferior NO2 <sup>−</sup> reaction path.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we reported the generation of high-spin state Ni(III) by photoexcitation, which facilitates the adsorption of active species. Moreover, illumination inhibited C–N cleavage in the NO2 <sup>−</sup> reaction path, making it more favorable for decomposing urea to N2 and CO2, which is conducive to the rapid reaction of urea oxidation. By utilizing AM 1.5G illumination, the UOR performance of the Mo-Ni3S2@NMF significantly improved. Compared to those under dark conditions, the UOR current increased by 50%, and the onset potentials for UOR and urea electrolysis were 1.315 V and 1.32 V, decreasing by 15 mV and 80 mV, respectively. These findings illustrate the significant potential and underlying mechanisms of illumination-assisted strategies in enhancing UOR performance.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*The Synthesis of the Catalysts*: The purchased nickel-molybdenum foam was cut into 2 cm\*3 cm pieces. Then, the foam was ultrasonically <span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

cleaned in acetone, 3 M HCl solution and ethanol for 10 min to clean the oil and oxide layer on the surface. Pretreated nickel-molybdenum foam was placed in a 30 ml Teflon-lined autoclave, and 20 mL ethanol solution containing 0.3 g TAA was added to the reactor. The Teflon-lined autoclave was transferred to an oven, heated at 180 °C for 12 h and then cooled naturally. Uniform Mo-Ni3S2 nanoribbons (Mo-Ni3S2@NMF) were grown on the surface under the action of high temperature and sulfur atoms. The prepared Mo-Ni3S2@NMF was washed repeatedly in water and ethanol and then dried at room temperature. The preparation method of Ni3S2@NF was the same as above, but the base was replaced with nickel foam.

*Physical Characterization*: The powder XRD patterns of the samples were recorded with an X-ray diffractometer (Japan Rigaku D/MAX-A) using Cu-Ka radiation ( = 1.54178 Å) with a 2 range of 30°–80°. TEM images were collected from a Hitachi H-800 transmission electron microscope using an accelerating voltage of 200 kV, and an HRTEM (FEI Talos F200X) was operated at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted on an ESCALAB 250 X-ray photoelectron spectrometer instrument. The X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) of the Ni K-edge was investigated at the BL14W1 beamline of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF). The adsorption curves were treated by a normalization process. In situ Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy was performed on a Nicolet iS50 FT-IR instrument with a VeeMAX III variable angle specular reflectance accessory purchased from PIKE Technologies. The NO2 <sup>−</sup> concentration was detected by ion chromatography (ICS 3000, EG-5). The thermal images were collected by a FLIR-ETS320 infrared camera. The illumination was introduced by a high power xenon light source (PLS-SXE 300E).

*Electrochemical Measurements*: The electrochemical measurements were conducted at 25 °C by an electrochemical workstation (CHI 660E). The prepared Mo-Ni3S2@Foam was cut into 1 cm × 1 cm pieces as the working electrodes. A platinum wire and an Ag/AgCl electrode were employed as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. First, 1 M KOH + 0.33 m urea and 1 m KOH solution were used as the UOR electrolyte and OER electrolyte, respectively. All potentials were measured against an Ag/AgCl reference electrode and converted to the RHE scale based on the Nernst equation (ERHE = EAg/AgCl+0.059×pH+0.205). Cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronopotentiometry (CP) and IT curves were obtained without IR correction. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was conducted with a scan rate of 0.01 V s−<sup>1</sup> with 80% IR correction. The Tafel slopes were calculated from the LSV curves. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted at a potential window of 1.20–1.42 V with a frequency range of 10<sup>−</sup>2–105 Hz. Cyclic voltammetry measurements at different scan rates (20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 mV s<sup>−</sup>1.) was carried out to calculate the double-layer capacitance (Cdl).

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22072140, 22272155, and 22102169) and the National Key Research and Development Program of China (Grant No. 2021YFA1600202). The DFT calculations were conducted on the supercomputing system in the Supercomputing Center of the University of Science and Technology of China. The authors also thank BL14W1 beamlines of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) for measurements of Ni K-edge and XAFS.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

high spin state, illumination assisted strategy, urea electrolysis, urea oxidation reaction

> Received: April 17, 2024 Revised: July 2, 2024 Published online: July 19, 2024

16136829, 2024, 45, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202403107 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] a) W. Sun, J. Li, W. Gao, L. Kang, F. Lei, J. Xie, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 2430; b) X. Gao, S. Zhang, P. Wang, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2024**, *53*, 1552; c) S. Xu, X. Ruan, M. Ganesan, J. Wu, S. K. Ravi, X. Cui, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2313309.
- [2] B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906133.
- [3] a) X. Wang, J. P. Li, Y. Duan, J. Li, H. Wang, X. Yang, M. Gong, *Chem-CatChem* **2022**, *14*, 202101906; b) W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2021**, *60*, 7297.
- [4] R. Lin, L. Kang, T. Zhao, J. Feng, V. Celorrio, G. Zhang, G. Cibin, A. Kucernak, D. J. L. Brett, F. Corà, I. P. Parkin, G. He, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 2386.
- [5] P. Wang, X. Bai, H. Jin, X. Gao, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2300687.
- [6] H. Sun, J. Liu, H. Kim, S. Song, L. Fei, Z. Hu, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, F. Ciucci, W. Jung, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2204800.
- [7] Z. Ji, Y. Song, S. Zhao, Y. Li, J. Liu, W. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *12*, 569.
- [8] L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2021**, *60*, 10577.
- [9] T. Wang, L. Miao, S. Zheng, H. Qin, X. Cao, L. Yang, L. Jiao, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4091.
- [10] C. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zhuo, H. Ju, D. Li, Y. Guo, X. Wu, H. Li, T. Zhai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801775.
- [11] C. Wang, H. Lu, Z. Mao, C. Yan, G. Shen, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000556.
- [12] W. K. Han, J. X. Wei, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, X. Peng, S. Zhao, Z. Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2022**, *61*, 202206050.
- [13] a) H. Zhang, F. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 27193; b) J. Zhao, S. Xue, R. Ji, B. Li, J. Li, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 12070; c) D. Mateo, J. L. Cerrillo, S. Durini, J. Gascon, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 2173; d) W. Zhang, Y. Chen, G. Zhang, X. Tan, Q. Ji, Z. Wang, H. Liu, J. Qu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2021**, *60*, 4872.
- [14] a) G. Liu, P. Li, G. Zhao, X. Wang, J. Kong, H. Liu, H. Zhang, K. Chang, X. Meng, T. Kako, J. Ye, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 9128; b) Y. Liu, C. H. Liu, T. Debnath, Y. Wang, D. Pohl, L. V. Besteiro, D. M. Meira, S. Huang, F. Yang, B. Rellinghaus, M. Chaker, D. F. Perepichka, D. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 541; c) X. Cui, Q. Ruan, X. Zhuo, X. Xia, J. Hu, R. Fu, Y. Li, J. Wang, H. Xu, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 6891.
- [15] a) T. Sun, F. Huang, J. Liu, H. Yu, X. Feng, X. Feng, Y. Yang, H. Shu, F. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2306049; b) Z. Zhang, J. Huang, Y. Fang, M. Zhang, K. Liu, B. Dong, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*,1606688.
- [16] a) M. Arczynski, J. Stanek, B. Sieklucka, K. R. Dunbar, D. Pinkowicz, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 19067; b) M. M. Paquette, D. Plaul, A. Kurimoto, B. O. Patrick, N. L. Frank, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 14990.

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[17] a) J. Yan, Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, S. Xia, J. Yu, B. Ding, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007525; b) F. Li, H. Ai, D. Liu, K. H. Lo, H. Pan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 17749.
- [18] a) C. Yin, F. Yang, S. Wang, L. Feng, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2023**, *51*, 225; b) S. Wang, J. Zhu, X. Wu, L. Feng, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *33*, 1105; c) S. Wang, L. Zhao, J. Li, X. Tian, X. Wu, L. Feng, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *66*, 483.
- [19] a) D. Li, W. Wan, Z. Wang, H. Wu, S. Wu, T. Jiang, G. Cai, C. Jiang, F. Ren, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2201913; b) Y. Zhu, C. Liu, S. Cui, Z. Lu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, W. Shi, X. Huang, L. Xue, J. Bian, Y. Li, Y. Xu, B. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301549.
- [20] a) S. Li, S. Wang, Y. Wang, J. He, K. Li, Y. Xu, M. Wang, S. Zhao, X. Li, X. Zhong, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214488; b) G. Zhang, Y.-S. Feng, W.-T. Lu, D. He, C.-Y. Wang, Y.-K. Li, X.-Y. Wang, F.-F. Cao, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5431.
- [21] a) Q. Tang, J. Wu, X.-Z. Chen, R. Sanchis-Gual, A. Veciana, C. Franco, D. Kim, I. Surin, J. Pérez-Ramírez, M. Mattera, A. Terzopoulou, N. Qin, M. Vukomanovic, B. J. Nelson, J. Puigmartí-Luis, S. Pané, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *108*,108202; b) Z. Wei, J. He, Y. Yang, Z. Xia, Y. Feng, J. Ma, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *53*, 303.
- [22] a) M. H. Han, M. W. Pin, J. H. Koh, J. H. Park, J. Kim, B. K. Min, W. H. Lee, H.-S. Oh, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 27034; b) S. Ghosh, B. Dasgupta, S. Kalra, M. L. P. Ashton, R. Yang, C. J. Kueppers, S. Gok, E. G. Alonso, J. Schmidt, K. Laun, I. Zebger, C. Walter, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2206679; c) N. Duan, T. Hou, W. Zheng, Y. Qu, P. Wang, J. Yang, Y. Yang, D. Wang, J. Chen, Q. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 1384.
- [23] a) H. He, Z. Ye, D. Shimizu, I. Sumra, Y. Zhang, Z. Liang, Y. Zeng, L. Xu, A. Osuka, Z. Ke, H.-W. Jiang, *Chem. – Eur. J.* **2022**, *28*, 202103272; b) B. K. Maiti, L. B. Maia, S. R. Pauleta, I. Moura, J. J. Moura, *Inorg. Chem.* **2017**, *56*, 2210.
- [24] W.-C. Hu, Y. Shi, Y. Zhou, C. Wang, M. R. Younis, J. Pang, C. Wang, X.-H. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 10601.
- [25] a) J. Tauc, R. Grigorovici, A. Vancu, *Phys. Status Solidi B* **1966**, *15*, 627; b) P. Makula, M. Pacia, W. Macyk, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2018**, *9*, 6814.

- [26] J. Wang, Y. Li, L. Deng, N. Wei, Y. Weng, S. Dong, D. Qi, J. Qiu, X. Chen, T. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*,1603730.
- [27] S. Zhong, Y. Xi, S. Wu, Q. Liu, L. Zhao, S. Bai, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 14863.
- [28] a) L. Li, X. Zhang, M. Humayun, X. Xu, Z. Shang, Z. Li, M. F. Yuen, C. Hong, Z. Chen, J. Zeng, M. Bououdina, K. Temst, X. Wang, C. Wang, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *18*, 1214; b) Y. Li, H. Guo, Y. Zhang, R. Song, *Appl. Catal., B* **2024**, *341*,123296; c) X. W. Chang, S. Li, L. Wang, L. Dai, Y. P. Wu, X.-Q. Wu, Y. Tian, S. Zhang, D.-S. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2313974; d) M. Zhong, M. Xu, S. Ren, W. Li, C. Wang, M. Gao, X. Lu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 1984.
- [29] V. Tucureanu, A. Matei, A. M. Avram, *Crit. Rev. Anal. Chem.* **2016**, *46*, 502.
- [30] S. K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H. B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [31] V. M. Zemtsova, A. G. Oshchepkov, E. R. Savinova, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 13466.
- [32] M. Casas-Cabanas, M. D. Radin, J. Kim, C. P. Grey, A. Van der Ven, M. R. Palacín, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 19256.
- [33] S. W. Tatarchuk, J. J. Medvedev, F. Li, Y. Tobolovskaya, A. Klinkova, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2022**, *61*, 202209839.
- [34] C. Tang, G. Chen, Y. Liu, J. Wang, X. He, C. Xie, Z. He, J. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 16671.
- [35] J. Yang, F. Xu, W. Zhao, L. Liu, B. Weng, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2309363.
- [36] a) Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185; b) S. F. Hung, Y. Y. Hsu, C. J. Chang, C. S. Hsu, N. T. Suen, T. S. Chan, H. M. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *8*, 1701686.
- [37] a) C. G. Morales-Guio, L. Liardet, X. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 8946; b) Y. Lyu, J. Zheng, Z. Xiao, S. Zhao, S. P. Jiang, S. Wang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906867; c) R. A. Raimundo, V. D. Silva, E. S. Medeiros, D. A. Macedo, T. A. Simões, U. U. Gomes, M. A. Morales, R. M. Gomes, *J. Phys. Chem. Solids* **2020**, *139*, 109325.