---
source: Wang 等 - 2020 - Manganese‐Modulated Cobalt‐Based Layered Double Hydroxide Grown on Nickel Foam with 1D–2D–3D Heteros.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 46.118s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:35:47.899848Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Manganese-modulated cobalt-based layered double hydroxide grown on nickel foam with 1D-2D-3D heterostructure for highly efficient oxygen evolution reaction and urea oxidation reaction

**Authors:** Zhaolong Wang, Yiming Hu, Wenjun Liu, Li Xu, Meili Guan, Yan Zhao, Jian Bao, and Huaming Li

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *Chem. Eur. J.* 10.1002/chem.202001055

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202001055

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

## Manganese-modulated cobalt-based layered double hydroxide grown on nickel foam with 1D-2D-3D heterostructure for highly efficient oxygen evolution reaction and urea oxidation reaction

Zhaolong Wang, <sup>‡ [a]</sup> Yiming Hu, <sup>‡ [a]</sup> Wenjun Liu, <sup>[a]</sup> Li Xu, <sup>[a]</sup> Meili Guan, <sup>[a]</sup> Yan Zhao, <sup>[a]</sup> Jian Bao, <sup>\* [a]</sup> Huaming Li <sup>[a]</sup>

[a] Z. Wang, Y. Hu, W. Liu, Dr. L. Xu, Dr. M. Guan, Dr. Y. Zhao, Dr. J. Bao, Prof. H. Li School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Institute for Energy Research Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, 212013, P. R. China E-mail: baojian@ujs.edu.cn
‡ Z. W. and Y. H. contributed equally to this work.

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

Abstract: Hydrogen production via energy-efficient electrochemical water electrolysis is a green avenue to meet the development of contemporary society. However, oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and urea oxidation reaction (UOR) occurring on the anode are impeded by the sluggish kinetics reaction during the water-splitting process. Consequently, it is promising to develop bifunctional anodic electrocatalyst consisting of non-precious metal. Herein, we report a bifunctional CoMn layered double hydroxides (LDH) grown on nickel foam with a 1D-2D-3D hierarchical structure for efficient OFR and UOR performance in alkaline solution. Benefited from the significant synergistic effect of Mn doping and heterostrouture engineering simultaneously, the obtained Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF exhibits a satisfactory OER activity with a low potential of 1.515 V to attain 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>. Besides, the potential of Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF catalyst for UOR at the same current density is only 1.326 V. much lower than other counterparts and most reported electrocatalysts. Remarkably, a urea electrolytic cell with anodic Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF and cathodic Pt-C/NF electrode is established, then the low cell voltage of 1.354 V at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> is acquired. The optimized strategy may endow promising candidates for developing a new generation of bifunctional electrocatalysts for clean energy production.

#### Introduction

The use of efficient and convenient energy conversion technology to manufacture pollution-free hydrogen is the general trend of future social development.[1] Among them, electrochemical water-splitting technology, which converts the energy of electricity into chemical energy through a simple device, provides a good choice for hydrogen production.[2] However, the pairing of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in electrocatalytic water splitting usually needs a higher potential than the theoretical value to promote the effect of the desired hydrogen production throughout the reaction. Especially, the anodic OER is a dynamic slow process that needs to overcome the reaction of a multi-electron transfer reaction, which is also one of the key difficulties in breaking through the efficiency of water electrolysis.[3] Recently, an anodic urea oxidation reaction (UOR) which takes place in an alkaline solution containing urea molecules, is also considered as a valuable electrocatalytic route for wastewater treatment and water splitting. [4] The traditional OER process owns the theoretical equilibrium voltage of 1.23 V (vs. RHE), and UOR displays a much smaller value of 0.37 V, thus showing the superiority of UOR for water splitting. [5] Based on the above considerations, a bifunctional electrocatalyst capable of high-efficiency UOR and OER performance can be utilized to promote the hydrogen-producing efficiency and alleviate the situation of urea-rich wastewater contamination.

As known, due to the non-negligible deficiencies of the precious metal catalysts, such as high prices, low reserves, poor stability, etc., researchers began to focus on the application and development of non-precious metal materials. Among many transition-metal materials, Ni-based catalysts have been frequently reported for applications in OER and UOR. NiFe LDH and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> materials for OER, IT and the NiO and NiMoO<sub>4</sub> materials for UOR. Similar to Ni-based materials, the Cocontaining materials with rich reserve, have been also reported widely for OER. However, there are few reports on its application in the field of UOR. Therefore, it is meaningful to develop a bifunctional Co-based electrocatalyst that can be applied to both OER and UOR.

In order to make Co-based materials to become a practicable catalyst for both OER and UOR, some reasonable strategies should be implemented. In that field, elemental doping is one of the most effective ways to regulate the composition to achieve the multi-functionalization of materials.[10] Our group has reported a Mo-doped Co-based LDH material, which could be applied as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for OER and HER.[11] Studying from the above work, it is hopeful to select suitable metal-ion doping to achieve the bi-functionalization of OER and UOR. Of them, Mn doping was reported to provide some properties tuned electronic structure, tailored atomic disorder, and optimized electrical conductivity in Co-based compounds, thus leading to the promoted OER process.[12] Besides, Qiao et. al also found that manganese-based materials feel well disposed towards UOR process.[13] Inspired by these work, Mn was chosen as a dopant in Co-based materials to adjust the properties of the catalyst and also provide additional UOR active sites, truly realizing the design of the bifunctional catalyst. Apart from the elemental incorporation, the engineering of hierarchical

nanostructures is also a promising direction.[14] Tang et. al constructed a hierarchical structure containing Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> nanowire grown on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets. Benefitting from the unique wireproperties, on-sheet structural it displays superior electrocatalytic activity in the OER and UOR.[15] Therefore, the beneficial heterostructure could not only offer abundant active sites during the catalytic process but also provide a favorable conducive framework to promote charge transport. Based on these, the reasonable applications of element-doping and heterostructure in Co-based materials are expected to improve its electrocatalytic performance and broaden the new functionality of the electrocatalyst.

In this work, manganese-incorporated cobalt-based LDH nanoarrays grown on nickel foam with a hierarchical sheet-onwire nanostructure was fabricated. Strategies for simultaneous integration of element doping and morphological regulation give this material a new vibrancy in the field of electrocatalysis. The doping of Mn ions could not only regulate the electronic structure of the catalyst but also add additional active sites for the UOR process, thus enhancing the catalytic performance. Moreover, the sheet-on-wire of 1D-2D-3D hierarchical nanostructure facilitates sufficient exposure of the active site in the electrolyte and increases charge transport during the reaction. Thus the asprepared CoMn LDH could simultaneously act as the electrode of water and urea oxidation in an alkaline environment. At the current density of 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, the optimized Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF only requires the potential of 1.515 V and 1.326 V for OER and UOR process, respectively. Furthermore, when coupled with a cathodic Pt-C/NF electrode, Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF displays the potential of 1.354 V for a full water-splitting device in 1.0 M KOH with 0.33 M urea. This research provides meaningful guidance to develop more versatile and high-performance bifunctional electrocatalysts in the future.

#### **Results and Discussion**

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were employed to reveal the structure of the obtained material. The characteristic diffraction peaks centered at 11.8°, 23.7°, 34.6°, 38.9°, and 65.3° can correspond to the lattice planes of (003), (006), (102), (105) and (116), respectively, thus exhibiting the structure of layered double hydroxide (JCPDS No. 46-0605) (Figure 1a). While the strong peaks situated at 45.2° and 52.3° should belong to the NF. The surface elemental composition and chemical states of the obtained material were studied by an Xray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS) spectra. As shown in Figure S1, the elements of Co, Mn, and O were detected in the survey spectrum. Moreover, the XPS spectrum of Co 2p (Figure 1b) could be decomposed into six peaks. And the peaks centered at 795.1 and 779.5 eV corresponds to Co3+, and the peaks located at 796.6 and 781.2 eV should belong to Co2+. Furthermore, the shake-up satellite peak corresponding to Co<sup>2+</sup> also appears at 802.6 and 784.4 eV.[16] The Mn 2p<sub>3/2</sub> core-level spectrum in the material could be deconvoluted into two peaks at 644.6 and 641.5 eV, which are assigned to Mn4+ and Mn3+ (Figure 1c). Besides, the distance of two peaks in Mn 3s region with the peak separation of 4.5 eV at the range between 80-94 eV (Figure S2), further disclosing the exitance of Mn<sup>4+</sup>. [17] O 1s XPS spectra of the sample is mainly associated with the surface adsorbed oxygen species (Oads).[18]

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD pattern of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF catalysts. XPS spectra and the fitting results of (b) Co 2p, (c) Mn 2p and (d) O 1s for the  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF sample.

The morphology of Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF is further examined with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). As displayed in Figure 2a, the low-resolution SEM image exhibits a 3D skeleton of NF, which can provide the permeable porous structure for gas release and ion diffusion and facilitate the fast electron transport. Magnified images for the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH in Figure 2b and 2c further show the 1D nanorod array morphology with roughly several micrometers in lengths and 100 nm in width, and 2D nanosheet on the surface of nanorod. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was taken to reveal the morphological information of CoMn LDH. As can be seen from Figure 2d, the nanosheets were wrapped on the nanorod thus further indicating the distinctive 1D-2D-3D hierarchical structure. And in the inset of the figure, the polycrystalline nature of the sample was revealed by the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern. Besides, the structure was further verified by the high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM). As indicated in Figure 2e, the interplanar spacing of 0.174 nm and 0.20 nm could be indexed to the (102) and (105) facets of LDH, and the lattice is the same on the nanorod and the nanosheet, further confirming the hierarchical structure. The elemental mapping images (Figure 2f-2i) also confirm the existence of the Co, Mn and O elements and reveal the uniform element distribution of these elements. The above characterizations reveal the successful fabrication of the CoMn LDH with the sheet-on-wire structure grown on NF.

**Figure 2.** (a-c) SEM images of the  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF sample, (d) TEM image and (e) HRTEM image of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF sample, (f-i) Elemental mapping images of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF sample.

**Figure 3.** The OER performance of series of CoMn LDH/NF electrocatalysts in 1.0 M KOH. (a) LSV curves of CoMn LDH/NF samples. (b) Tafel slopes of CoMn LDH/NF samples. (c) Long-term stability evaluation of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> using the chronoamperometry method. (d) The faradaic efficiency of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF.

In order to comprehend the effect of Mn doping on the OER performance, we optimized the doping amount of Mn ions in the LDH structure. Three samples with different ratios were synthesized and their OER performance was explored through a three-electrode configuration in alkaline solution (1.0 M KOH). Under the same condition, Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF demonstrates the lower overpotential of 285 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> than Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>0.5</sub> LDH/NF, Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>2</sub> LDH/NF and some reported excellent Cobased materials (Table S2), thus indicating its optimal amount of Mn in LDH. Besides, the current density of Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF shown in Figure S4 is nearly 3 times higher than CoCo LDH/NF at 1.8 V vs. RHE (Table S3), thus further illustrating the significant synergistic effect of Mn doping for improvement of OER performance. In spite of overpotential, the corresponding Tafel slope is also an important evaluation parameter for OER. As presented in Figure 3b, Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF delivers the smallest Tafel slope (69 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup>) in contrast to the other CoMn LDH samples, reflecting the fastest reaction kinetics. Owing to the stability is also a crucial factor for OER, the electrochemical stability of the as-obtained Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF catalyst was employed by the chronoamperometry (i-t) test. As displayed in Figure 3c, the retention rate of current density for Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF catalyst is almost 98% even after 20 h of testing and the morphology could be also retained well. Furthermore, faradaic efficiency was also tested to evaluate the oxygen conversion rates. Figure 3d shows the Faradaic efficiency of Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF is 94%, thus exhibiting more stability and efficient energy-conversion rate in the material.

In the interest of further investigating the intrinsic OER properties of these CoMn LDH/NF electrodes, the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\text{cl}}$ ) could be measured by cyclic voltammetry (CV) plot to probe the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of them at non-Faradaic region (Figure 4a and Figure S5). The calculated  $C_{\text{cl}}$  value of different Co/Mn ratios was shown in Figure 4b and the values for these samples are very close. That is to say, different content of Mn introduction does not bring great advantages to the electrochemically active area of the material. To reflect the intrinsic OER activity without the influence of ECSA, the normalized OER performance by the  $C_{\text{cl}}$  was carried out. As shown in Figure 4c, the  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF electrode represents a higher  $C_{\text{cl}}$ -normalized current density than  $Co_1Mn_{0.5}$  LDH/NF and  $Co_1Mn_2$  LDH/NF at 1.8 V vs. RHE.

This phenomenon illustrates that the Mn concentration affects the intrinsic OER performance may bring from the adjust electronic structure while not the surface area. The kinetic process could be reflected by the charge transfer resistance, which is because of the lower  $R_{ct}$  value, the faster process of kinetics. As shown in Figure 4d and Table S4,  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF shows a smaller  $R_{ct}$  value of 3.51  $\Omega$  than that of  $Co_1Mn_2$  LDH/NF and  $Co_2Mn_1$  LDH/NF, suggesting that the  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF owns faster charge transfer process for OER. In virtue of the high intrinsic activity and favorable kinetics,  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF indeed shows the superior catalytically active after proportional optimization to catalyze OER for electrochemical water splitting.

**Figure 4.** (a) CV curves of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF with the scan speed from 7 mV s<sup>-1</sup> to 15 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (b) The capacitive current measured at 0.175 V vs. Hg/HgO was plotted as the different scan rate. (c) The polarization curves of CoMn LDH/NF samples were normalized by the corresponding  $C_{dl}$ . (d) EIS curves and equivalent circuit of CoMn LDH/NF electrocatalysts.

Inspired by the superior OER activity, the electrocatalytic properties of this Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF electrode for UOR was further investigated in the solution of 1.0 M KOH and 0.33 M urea. Simultaneously, the measurement of compared CoCo LDH and bare NF were also applied at the same conditions. As observed in Figure 5a, the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF sample displays a small potential of 1.326 V for UOR to afford 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, much surpassing the compared samples (CoCo LDH and bare NF) and other recently reported electrocatalysts. Apparently, the great enhancement of UOR may bring by the incorporation of Mn sites and the unique hierarchical structure. In addition, the corresponding Tafel plots were evaluated to reveal the kinetics of these samples for UOR process (Figure 5b). The Tafel slopes of samples are exhibited to be 73 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup> (Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF), 128 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup> (CoCo LDH/NF), and 197 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup> (bare NF), respectively. The smallest Tafel slope presented by Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF indicates the facile charge transport, thus guaranteeing the fast kinetics for UOR. In order to affirm the UOR stability of the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF catalyst, the time-dependent stability was employed around 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S6). During the continuous measurement, Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF just shows the slight current density variation, which reveals the satisfactory UOR activity and superior stability of Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF. For purpose of evaluating the practicability of the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF catalyst, a two-electrode configuration was assembled, where the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF served as the anode and the commercial Pt-C acted as the cathode. The electrolytic device with the CoCo LDH/NF catalyst and bare NF as the anode was also measured as the

reference, respectively. As illustrated in Figure 5c,  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF merely needs the potential of 1.354 V to drive 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, this voltage is much smaller than that of CoCo LDH/NF, and bare NF. The chronopotentiometric curve also showed only a slight decay with the continuous oxidation of urea in alkaline conditions for 40 hours (Figure 5d). These results declared that the environment-friendly hydrogen energy could be obtained at the lower potentials with the aid of anodic urea oxidation.

Figure 5. Electrocatalytic UOR property of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF, CoCo LDH/NF and bare NF electrocatalysts in the solution of 1.0 M KOH and 0.33 M urea. (a) Polarization curves and (b) Tafel slopes of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF and the counterpart. (c) LSV curves of two electrodes overall urea-electrolysis device with  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF as anode and Pt-C/NF cathode. (d) The stability evaluation of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF by the chronoamperometry method for anodic urea oxidation assisted water splitting. (e) The potential of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF and recently reported UOR electrocatalysts under the same conditions (10 mA cm²).

For the sake of investigating the catalytic process for the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF, XPS characterization was carried out on the post-reaction samples, respectively. As shown in Figure 6a, the Co3+ signal becomes much stronger after a long-term oxidation test, thus indicating the oxidation of Co<sup>2+</sup> in the sample during the OER and UOR process.[19] The long-term electrocatalytic oxidation process might contribute to the formation of oxyhydroxides. As shown in the O 1s spectrum (Figure S7a), a peak O3 appeared thus further indicating the in-situ formed CoOOH (529.1 eV) during the OER and UOR.[20] It is also deduced that the guick transformation from initial LDH structure into highly active CoOOH species during the oxidation could benefit to the improved OER and UOR performance. These results further illustrate Co sites are involved in the catalytic process for the process of OER and UOR. In addition, we also carried out a detailed analysis of the valence state of Mn before and after catalysis. As shown in Figure 6b, the Mn ions in the Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF always keep the valence of +4 and +3 before and after catalysis. However, from the spectrum of Mn 3s (Figure S7b), we can see that the spectrum of the Mn ion belonging to the +4 valence tends to increase in the OER process and decreases for the UOR. This is because Mn<sup>3+</sup> is

**Figure 6.** The high-resolution XPS and fitting results of (a) Co 2p and (b) Mn 2p of  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF before and after OER and UOR performance. (c) Schematic illustration of the two electrodes overall water-electrolysis device with  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF as anode and Pt-C/NF cathode.

partially oxidized to a higher valence ( $Mn^{4+}$ ) after OER, the peak at the position of  $Mn^{4+}$  becomes stronger. And for UOR, there is an associative process that contains an electrochemical oxidation step and a chemical redox step.<sup>[21]</sup> The  $Mn^{4+}$  eventually undergo redox reaction with urea, thereby reducing the content of  $Mn^{3+}$ . This behavior also confirms that the doping of  $Mn^{3+}$  is also consistent with previously reported.<sup>[13]</sup> Based on the above, the  $Co_1Mn_1$  LDH/NF with 1D-2D-3D heterostructure is indeed an efficient bifunctional catalyst to serve as an anode for electrochemical water splitting.

#### Conclusion

In this work, a CoMn LDH grown on the NF skeleton, which possessed a unique 1D-2D-3D hierarchical structure, was proposed by a facile hydrothermal fabrication. The unique heterostructure not only guarantees sufficient active sites but also offers a favorable conducive framework to promote charge transport during the catalysis process. Simultaneously, the modulation of Mn ion in CoMn LDH/NF is vital to ameliorating the OER performance by regulating the electronic structure, and the existence of the Mn element could also supply additional active sites for UOR. Hence, the obtained Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF exhibits a satisfactory activity with a low potential of 1.515 V for OER and 1.326 V for UOR to achieve 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>. As of a twoelectrode configuration, the electrolytic cell assembled by the anodic Co<sub>1</sub>Mn<sub>1</sub> LDH/NF achieves efficient and stable hydrogen production at the voltage of 1.354 V. Our work can provide new and rational strategies to obtain more multifunctional

applications of budget metal materials in the field of energy-saving water electrolysis.

### **Experimental Section**

Synthesis of CoMn LDH/NF catalyst. The purchased reagents were analytical grade and directly used in the synthesis of the catalyst. Prior to preparing the catalyst, the NF substrate was separately immersed in hydrochloric acid, ethanol, and water for ultra-sonication to wash away some oxide impurities remaining on the surface. CoMn LDH/NF was synthesized by a simple hydrothermal process. Briefly, 0.1428 g CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 0.1188 g MnCl<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O, and 0.15 g CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> were dissolved into 40 mL H<sub>2</sub>O, and a homogeneous pink solution was gained after 20 minutes by vigorous stirring. The miscible liquid was transferred into the autoclave, meanwhile, two pieces of treated NF were immersed in it completely. The autoclave was sealed at 80°C for the hydrothermal reaction. After reacting for 12 hours and then cooling naturally, the NF loaded with the catalyst was taken out and washed three times with water and ethanol, respectively, and it was dried at 60°C in a vacuum oven overnight. The mass loading of the catalyst covered on the working electrode (NF) is about 1 mg/cm2. Hereon, the as-obtained catalyst electrode was synthesized with a metal-ion molar ratio of 1:1 (Co<sup>2+</sup>/Mn<sup>2+</sup>), and it was ensured that the total metal ion molar amount is 1.2 mmol.

For comparison, different mole ratios of  $Co^{2+}/Mn^{2+}$  solution (1: 0, 1: 0.5 and 1: 2) were confected to synthesize other materials in the same way as above and denominated them as CoCo LDH,  $Co_1Mn_{0.5}$  LDH, and  $Co_1Mn_2$  LDH.

**Materials characterization.** The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained with a Shimadzu X-ray Diffractometer in via using a high-intensity Cu-Kα ( $\lambda$ =1.54 Å) radiation (30 kV and 30 mA). The surface chemical composition and valence state of the as-obtained catalyst was ascertained by an ESCALAB 250Xi X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS, Al Kα X-ray source, 40 eV). And the binding energies of C 1s peak at 284.80 eV were used as a reference to calibrate the XPS spectrum. Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, JSM-7800F, JEOL) was employed to characterize the morphology of the samples. High-resolution transmission electron microscope (HR-TEM), elemental mapping and selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) were carried out on a JEM-2100F TEM at an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. The analysis of the metallic ion content in the catalyst was investigated by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES).

Electrochemical measurement. All electrochemical properties were gathered at the CHI 660E workstation (CH Instruments Inc., Shanghai) using a traditional three-electrode cell. Specifically, the catalyst modified NF (1×1 cm) used as a working electrode, a platinum plate, and a saturated Hg/HgO was employed as the counter electrode and reference electrode, respectively. OER is tested in 1.0 M KOH, and the electrolyte of UOR is 1.0 M KOH with 0.33 M urea. Before the OER and UOR measurements, the working electrode was activated by the cyclic voltammetry (CV) from the potential of 0 to 0.8 V (vs. Hg/HgO) at the scan rate of 0.1 V s<sup>-1</sup>. The scanning rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> was chosen to record the line scan voltammograms (LSV) curves and the stability test was operated at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In this article, the conversion of potential used the following formula:  $E_{(RHE)} = E_{(Hg/HgO)} + 0.059 \times pH + 0.098$ . The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was tested at 0.6 vs. Hg/HgO from 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of the electrodes was evaluated by measuring CV curves with different scan rates at a non-Faradaic region. The Faradaic efficiency was measured by the volumetric method. Comparing the actual volume of oxygen evolution with the theoretical one (FE= Vactual / Vtheoretical).

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China for Youths (No. 21601067, 21701057, 51603092) and High-tech Research Key laboratory of Zhenjiang (SS2018002), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No. 2017M611708), the Jiangsu Province Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No. 1701109B), and a Project Funded by the Priority Academic Program Development of the Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions.

**Keywords:** oxygen evolution reaction (OER) • layered double hydroxides (LDH) • urea oxidation reaction (UOR) • doping • heterostrcuture engineering

- a) J. Yi, H. Li, Y. Gong, X. She, Y. Song, Y. Xu, J. Deng, S. Yuan, H. Xu, H. Li, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* 2019, 243, 330-336. b) X. Xiong, Y. Ji, Ma. Xie, C. You, L. Yang, Z. Liu, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, Electrochem. Commun. 2018, 86, 161-165. c) Y. Liu, H. Niu, W. Gu, X. Cai, B. Mao, D. Li, W. Shi, *Chem. Eng. J* 2018, 339, 117-124.
- [2] L. Yang, L. Xie, X. Ren, Z. Wang, Z. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Yao, X. Sun, Chem. Commun. 2018, 54, 78-81.
- a) Y. Xin, X. Kan, L. Gan, Z. Zhang, ACS Nano 2017, 11, 10303-10312.
   b) X. Zhang, B. Yu, X. Wang, D. Yang, Y. Chen, J. Power Sources 2019, 434, 126670. c) Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y. Kang, Y. Bando, Y. Yamauchi, Nano Energy 2018, 47, 494-502.
- [4] Z. Yu, C. Lang, M. Gao, Y. Chen, Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S. Yu, Energ. Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 1890-1897.
- [5] a) H. Wang, H. Lee, Deng, Y. Z. Lu, P. Hsu, Y. Liu, D. Lin, Y. Cui, Nat. Commun. 2015, 6, 7261. b) R. Ding, L. Qi, M. Jia, H. Wang, Nanoscale 2014, 6, 1369-1376. c) Y. Liang, Q. Liu, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, Electrochim. Acta 2015, 153, 456-460.
- [6] a) T. Audichon, T. W. Napporn, C. Canaff, C. Morais, C. Comminges, K. B. Kokoh, J. Phy. Chem. C 2016,120, 2562-2573. b) P. Bhanja, B. Mohanty, A. K. Patra, S. Ghosh, B. K. Jena, A. Bhaumik, Chemcatchem 2019, 11, 583-592.
- [7] a) X. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhao, R. Shi, G. I. N. Waterhouse, T. Zhang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2019, 9, 1900881. b) W. Liu, J. Bao, L. Xu, M. Guan, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, Y. Huang, J. Xia, Y. Lei, H. Li, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2019, 478, 552-559.
- [8] Z. Yue, W. Zhu, Y. Li, Z. Wei, N. Hu, Y. Suo, J. Wang, *Inogy. Chem.* 2018, 57, 4693-4698.
- [9] a) C. You, Y. Ji, Z. Liu, X. Xiong, X. Sun, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2018, 6, 1527-1531. b) X. Yang, J. Chen, Y. Chen, P. Feng, H. Lai, J. Li, X. Luo, Nano-Micro Lett. 2017, 10, 15.
- [10] a) M. Ma, F. Qu, X. Ji, D.i Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Yao, L. Chen, X. Sun, Small 2017, 13, 1700394. b) J. Zhao, X. Li, G. Cui, X. Sun, Chem. Commun. 2018, 54, 5462-5465. c) G. Liu, D. He, R. Yao, Y. Zhao, J. Li, Electrochim. Acta 2017, 253, 498-505.
- [11] J. Bao, Z. Wang, J. Xie, L. Xu, F. Lei, M. Guan, Y. Huang, Y. Zhao, J. Xia, H. Li, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* 2018, 5, 2964-2970.
- [12] X. Zhao, X. Li, Y. Yan, Y. Xing, S. Lu, L. Zhao, S. Zhou, Z. Peng, J. Zeng, Appl. Catal. B-Environ. 2018, 236, 569-575.
- [13] S. Chen, J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Edit. 2016, 55, 3804-3808
- [14] a) J. Xie, W. Liu, F. Lei, X. Zhang, H. Qu, L. Gao, P. Hao, B. Tang, Y. Xie, Chem-Eur. J. 2018, 24, 18408-18412. b) X. Ji, R. Zhang, X. Shi, A. M. Asiri, B. Zheng, X. Sun, Nanoscale 2018, 10, 7941-7945. c) G. Zhu, L. Yang, R. Zhang, F. Qu, Z. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Yao, X. Sun, Nanoscale 2017. 9, 12343-12347.
- [15] P. Hao, W. Zhu, F. Lei, X. Ma, J. Xie, H. Tan, L. Li, H. Liu, B. Tang, Nanoscale 2018, 10, 20384-20392.
- [16] a) C. Yuan, J. Li, L. Hou, L. Yang, L. Shen, X. Zhang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2012, 22, 16084-16090. b) X. Cai, X. Shen, L. Ma, Z. Ji, C. Xu, A. Yuan, Chem. Eng. J. 2015, 268, 251-259.
- [17] a) Y. Teng, X. Wang, J. Liao, W. Li, H. Chen, Y. Dong, D. Kuang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1802463. b) H. Sim, C. Jo, T. Yu, E. Lim, S. Yoon, J. H. Lee, J. Yoo, J. Lee, B. Lim, Chem-Eur. J. 2014, 20, 14880-14884.

[18] H. B. Li, M. H. Yu, X. H. Lu, P. Liu, Y. Liang, J. Xiao, Y. X. Tong, G. W.

**FULL PAPER**

- Yang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Inter.* **2014**, 6, 745-749. [19] X. Bo, Y. Li, X. Chen, C. Zhao, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, 402, 381-387.
- [20] J. Yang, H. Liu, W. N. Martens, R. L. Frost, *J. Phy. Chem. C* **2010**, 114, 111-119.
- [21] a) J. Xie, H. Qu, F. Lei, X. Peng, W. Liu, L. Gao, P. Hao, G. Cui, B. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, 6, 16121-16129. b) V. Vedharathinam,

### **Table of Contents**

A CoMn LDH/NF electrode with 1D-2D-3D heterostructure issuccessfully fabricated as a bifunctional OER and UOR electrocatalyst.