---
source: Xu 等 - 2023 - Fe Electron Center Local Regulation of CoFe‐Layered Double Hydroxides Nanosheets for Enhancing the E.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 43.319s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:43:42.439411Z
---

Check for updates

www.chemnanomat.org

# Fe Electron Center Local Regulation of CoFe-Layered Double Hydroxides Nanosheets for Enhancing the Electrocatalytic Oxidation of Benzyl Alcohol

Yanqi Xu,\*<sup>[a, b]</sup> Hejun Liu,<sup>[a]</sup> Yixiong Wu,<sup>[a]</sup> Qian Wu,<sup>[a]</sup> Cunjun Li,<sup>[a, b]</sup> Xinyu Wang,<sup>[c]</sup> Haiqing Qin,<sup>[d]</sup> Aimiao Qin,<sup>[a, b]</sup> and Linjiang Wang\*<sup>[a, b]</sup>

Replacing sluggish oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with electrocatalytic oxidation (ECO) of alcohols was a promising hotspot due to its advantages of requiring low potential, inhibiting mixing of gases, and forming value-added products. In the ECO of alcohols process, Fe electron centers of Fe-based layered double hydroxides (LDHs) can regulate the d band of LDHs overlap, optimize the active local structure of LDHs, and then enhance the electrocatalytic oxidation performance. In this work, Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>y</sub>-LDHs nanosheets with different ratios of Co/Fe were prepared for selective ECO of benzyl alcohol (BA) to benzoic acid (BAC). Comprehensive characterizations revealed

that the adjustment of bandgap and OH species adsorption of  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs resulted in the appropriate thermodynamic driving force, which improved the electrical conductivity of  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs and enhanced their ECO of BA. Especially, the as-prepared  $Co_3Fe_1$ -LDH showed intriguing electrocatalytic activity and only required a potential of 1.51 V (vs. RHE) to achieve a total current density of 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  in alkaline solution containing 10 mM BA with a conversion (96.79%) of BA and selectivity (94.93%) of BAC, which was 60 mV lower than that of OER. After six cycles,  $Co_3Fe_1$ -LDH still achieved 94.74% conversion of BA and 92.10% selectivity of BAC without significant degradation.

#### Introduction

In recent years, researches on constructing hybrid water electrolysis systems by combining electrocatalytic oxidation (ECO) of alcohols to produce high-value-added products with hydrogen evolution reaction have been widely conducted.<sup>[1]</sup> The ECO of benzyl alcohol (BA) to benzaldehyde (BAD) and benzoic acid (BAC) shows more advantages than traditional catalytic processes which usually require complex conditions and involve hazardous reagents.<sup>[2]</sup> To date, two different

[a] Dr. Y. Xu, H. Liu, Y. Wu, Q. Wu, C. Li, Prof. A. Qin, Prof. L. Wang College of Materials Science and Engineering Guilin University of Technology Guilin 541004 (China) E-mail: wlinjiang@163.com xuyanaj@alut.edu.cn

- [b] Dr. Y. Xu, C. Li, Prof. A. Qin, Prof. L. Wang Key Laboratory of New Technology for Processing Nonferrous Metals and Materials, Ministry of Education, Collaborative Innovation Center for Exploration of Nonferrous Metal Deposits and Efficient Utilization of Resources, Guilin University of Technology Guilin 541004 (China)
- [c] Dr. X. Wang School of Materials and Energy University of Electronic Science and Technology of China Chenadu 611731 (China)
- [d] Prof. H. Qin Guangxi Key Laboratory of Superhard Material, National Engineering Research Center for Special Mineral Material, Guangxi Technology Innovation Center for Special Mineral Material China Nonferrous Metal (Guilin) Geology And Mining Co., Ltd. Guilin 541004 (China)
- Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cnma.202300414

mechanisms (Fleischmann mechanism and hydride transfer mechanism) have been hypothesized in the ECO of alcohols. In Fleischmann mechanism, alcohol oxidation firstly underwent hydration to form the 1,1-geminal diol, and then it underwent an oxidation mechanism to form the carboxylic acid, [3] while in hydride transfer mechanism, oxidation of alcohols to aldehydes underwent through the potential-dependent oxidation pathway. [4] Previous studies have demonstrated that electrode materials are clearly important parameters in the ECO of alcohols since the mechanisms of the electrode reactions depended on the electrode materials and thereby opened up carbon-neutral and renewable pathways to access varieties of chemicals.

Kinds of electrocatalysts with various compositions (e.g., sulfide, phosphide, oxide, hydroxide) and structures (e.g., nanosheets array, heterojunction) were designed and reported. At present, the noble metal-based materials (such as Ag-, Ru-, Pdand Pt-based electrocatalysts) with low overpotentials are the most popular electrocatalysts for the ECO of BA.<sup>[5]</sup> For example, it is possible to completely oxidize BA on Pd- and Pt-based electrocatalysts at an overpotential lower than 1.23 V (thermodynamic potential for oxygen evolution reaction (OER)).[6] However, these electrocatalysts demonstrate low mass activity and have durability issues because of catalysts surface poisoning due to the irreversible adsorption of different intermediates. In contrast, many non-noble electrocatalysts based on Co, Ni, or Fe show high current densities at much higher potential as compared to noble-metal-based electrocatalysts during the ECO of BA. For instance, 2D NiO/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> heterointerface electrocatalyst exhibited outstanding ECO of BA with a working potential of 1.38 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a 98% selectivity towards BAC.[7] In general, the chemical environment and surface

structure are vital for getting good electrocatalytic performance, as reactions take place on the exposed surface of electrocatalysts. Usually, the dual-metal electrocatalysts, especially, Co, Ni, or Fe based metals oxides, oxy-hydroxides, and phosphates electrocatalysts, *etc.*, commonly showed superior electrocatalytic performances than their single-component counterparts due to the 3*d*-block metal hydroxides featuring well-tailorable electronic structures.[8] Unsatisfactory, strong binding 3d-block metal and the adsorbed \*OOH species still sustains unsatisfactory activity. Previous studies have been demonstrated the correlation between the *d*-band electron configuration of active sites and the intrinsic activity, and the energy barrier that restricts electron transfer between *d* orbital of 3*d*-block metal and *p* orbital of oxygen is one of the key factors.[9] In these contexts, incorporating another metal into the transition metalbased electrocatalysts to design selective multicomponent compounds could optimize the local structure of active sites of electrocatalysts due to the *d* bands' overlap. The electrons are partially transferred from the higher to the lower orbital energy element, which induces the shifting of the *d* band center relative to the Fermi level, thus the adsorption of OH species are altered and subsequently enhance the electrocatalytic activity of the materials.[10] Particularly, it has been suggested that Ni, Co and Fe doping have been illustrated to successfully optimize the *d*-band centers of the host catalysts.[11] For instance, when Fe was incorporated into lattice of CoOOH to forming Fe-substituted CoOOH, the energy levels of intermediates and products were significantly reduced because the partial CoO6 octahedral structure in CoOOH is exchanged by FeO6 octahedrons and FeO6 possesses high active sites.[12] Therefore, regulating the local structures and the consequent atomic interactions through doping Ni, Co and Fe elements is an effective way to regulate the *d-*band center of electrocatalysts, which can expose the active sites and enhance the adsorption properties to improve ECO performance.

Layered double hydroxides (LDHs), as benchmark kind of electrocatalysts actively studied over the past decades for their performance towards OER. The oxidation reaction of organic molecules, is one typical multi-component system with the formula of [M2<sup>+</sup> 1-*x*M3<sup>+</sup> *<sup>x</sup>*(OH)2] *<sup>x</sup>*<sup>+</sup>(A*<sup>n</sup>* )*x*/*n*·*m*H2O, where the M2<sup>+</sup> is divalent cations (e.g. Mg2<sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Co2<sup>+</sup>, *etc.*), and M<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> is trivalent cations (such as Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Co3<sup>+</sup>, V<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Al<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, *etc.*), and *x* is in the range of 0.2-0.4.[13] Compared with other (oxy)hydroxides, LDHs show the advantages of highly tunable chemical composition, resulting in the formation of an ordered distribution of both the M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and M3<sup>+</sup> ions in the LDHs framework. This ordered dispersibility and regularity of metal cations in the LDHs layers can realize complementary functionalities and synergies between active sites and synergetic metals, which can further regulate the redistribution of electrons and promote the activation and conversion of reactants by influencing the thermodynamic energy conversion process.[14] It is increasingly convinced that the interactions of the active sites can modulate the local structure of LDHs and have more affinity for the adsorption of OH species, thereby enhance the electrocatalytic performance at low potential.[15] Furthermore, the electroncoupled interactions between metallic *d*-orbitals and metal-like *sp*-orbitals can cause the center of the *d* orbitals to deviate from the Fermi level, resulting in an increase in the conductivity of the LDHs. It is worth noting that Fe centers in Fe containing-LDHs play a vital role on the electrocatalytic performance. The chemical environment modification of Fe by incorporating other valence variable transition metals (such as Co, Mn, and V) into Fe based-LDHs has been regarded as an effective protocol to strengthen the local structure effects and atomic interactions of LDHs.[16]

Herein, the CoFe-layered double hydroxides nanosheets (denoted as Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs) as highly efficient electrocatalysts were successfully synthesized through one-step coprecipitation, which liberated ECO of BA at anode and hydrogen evolution at cathode simultaneously in water medium (Scheme 1). Regulation the Co/Fe molar ratios in the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs leaded to the electrons partially transferred from Fe atom to Co atom. Subsequently *d* band center of LDHs shifted toward the Fermi level to improve the adsorption properties of OH species, which could narrow the bandgap and enhance the electric conductiv-

**Scheme 1.** Illustration of the synthetic process of Co3Fe1-LDH and the ECO of BA equipped with Co3Fe1-LDH and Pt mesh as anode and cathode in the H-type electrochemical cell separated by a Nafion-117 membrane.

ity of LDHs. As the result, the as-prepared Co3Fe1-LDH with minimum bandgap showed excellent ECO activity and cycling stability. The half-cell study required an onset potential of 1.30 V for ECO of BA. Under the reaction conditions of 25°C, 0.8 V *vs.* Ag/AgCl, 8 h, the Co3Fe1-LDH showed excellent conversion of BA (C*BA*=96.79%) and selectivity of BAC (S*BAC*= 94.93%) for ECO of BA, which far exceeded the electrocatalytic performance of Fe(OH)3 (C*BA*=71.82%) and Co(OH)2 (C*BA*= 79.65%). Meanwhile, the electrocatalytic performance was still well maintained after six cycles, where the conversion of BA and selectivity of BAC were 94.74% and 92.10%, respectively. This work may supply a new and convenient approach for designing transition metal-based electrodes with valuable chemicals for green synthesis.

# **Results and Discussion**

As shown in Scheme 1, the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs (*x*:*y*=2:1, 3:1 and 4 :1) with different Co/Fe mole ratios were synthesized by one-step coprecipitate process. The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were performed to examine the crystal structures of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. As seen from Figure 1a, a serial of (00 *l*) Bragg diffraction peaks of all samples showed the typical laminar stacking of LDHs, which were well-corresponded to the reported CoFe-LDH (JCPDS Card NO: 50-0235),[17] indicating the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs were successfully prepared. The *d*-spacing of (003) Bragg reflections gradually shifted from 7.94 Å (Co4Fe1-LDH) to 7.84 Å (Co3Fe1-LDH) and then to 7.79 Å (Co2Fe1-LDH), indicating the interlayer spacings decreased of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs caused by the increase of Fe content.[18] Furthermore, the reflections intensity of the corresponding Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs gradual declined with the Co/Fe ratio increasing from 2:1 to 4:1, revealing that smaller crystal size and lower crystallinity of LDHs with increasing Fe content. To identify the functional groups of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs, FT-IR spectra were conducted (Figure 1b). All the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs exhibited the absorption peaks at about 1481 cm <sup>1</sup> , which were ascribed to the absorption peaks of CO3 <sup>2</sup> . The wide absorptions

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD patterns, (b) FT-IR spectra, (c) N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, and (d) the corresponding pore size distributions of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs.

at 3430, 1631, 680, and 510 cm <sup>1</sup> were assigned to the O H stretching, interlayered and adsorbed water molecules, metal-OH bending, and metal-O stretching vibrations, respectively.[19] Besides, N2 adsorption-desorption measurements were applied to demonstrate the specific surface area and porosity of the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. Depending on the N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms (Figure 1c), the hysteresis loops of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs conformed to the type IV isotherm and the H3-type hysteresis loop, revealing the presence of mesopores in Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. Moreover, the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs possessed high Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area (137.51~225.64 m<sup>2</sup> /g) and pore diameters were around 2.57~3.49 nm owing to the hierarchical structure (Figure 1d and Table S1). The BET surface area (225.64 m2 /g) and pore volume (0.19 cm<sup>3</sup> /g) of Co3Fe1-LDH were the largest among the three samples. Such high BET surface area and large pore structure would benefit to expose more active sites and promote the adsorption of benzyl alcohol (BA) molecules on Co3Fe1-LDH, and thus accelerate the whole catalytic reaction process.

Electron microscopies were performed to investigate the morphologies and microstructures of the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs materials. The morphologies of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs were affected by the Co/Fe molar ratio (Figure S1). The Co2Fe1-LDH was composed of irregular nanoparticles and some tiny nanosheets. While the Co3Fe1-LDH displayed flower-like structure, consisting of laminar nanosheets. Interestingly, these nanosheets were interleaved together to form a loose layered structure, which could supply more accessible channels and active sites for the electrocatalytic oxidation (ECO) of BA. As the ratio of Co/Fe increased to 4:1, the Co4Fe1-LDH also displayed hierarchical structure, but the lamella was not maintained well with slight fracture and collapse. Taking Co3Fe1-LDH as a typical sample, high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) was applied to explore the microstructure. As illustrated in Figure 2a, the low magnification TEM image of Co3Fe1-LDH displayed its hierarchical structure. In addition, lattice fringes with a spacing of 0.25 nm was identified in Figure 2b and 2c, which was ascribed to the (012) crystal plane of LDH, and the corresponding selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure 2d) confirmed the polycrystalline nature of the Co3Fe1-LDH. Elemental mapping by energy dispersive spectroscopy (Figure 2e) confirmed that the elements (Co, Fe, C, and O) were uniformly distributed within the Co3Fe1-LDH nanosheets. Moreover, the Co/Fe molar ratios measured by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) (Table S2) were determined to be 1.98, 2.92, and 3.74 for Co2Fe1-LDH, Co3Fe1-LDH, and Co4Fe1-LDH, respectively, which were nearly close to the theoretical molar ratios, indicating that Co and Fe were evenly distributed in the process of reaction.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out to determine the surface chemical state and electronic structure of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. The survey scan spectra (Figure 3a) revealed the presence of Co, Fe, and O elements in Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. In addition, the high-resolution Co 2p spectra for Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs comprised the Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2 characteristic peaks accompanied by two satellite peaks (Figure 3b).[20] The deconvoluted Co 2p regions of Co2Fe1-LDH, Co3Fe1-LDH, and Co4Fe1-LDH possessed

**Figure 2.** (a-c) HRTEM images, (d) the corresponding SAED, and (e) elemental mappings of Co3Fe1-LDH.

**Figure 3.** XPS spectra of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs: (a) survey scan spectrum and highresolution XPS spectra of (b) Co 2p, (c) Fe 2p, and (d) O 1s, respectively.

2p3/2 binding energy values of 780.96, 781.28, and 781.20 eV, respectively (Figure 3b), suggesting the binding energy of Co shifted to high binding energy which meant that the valence state of Co element decreased, as binding slightly shifting to higher energy direction suggested that the Co3<sup>+</sup> was partially reduced to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. [21] These values corroborated the Co2<sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup> mixed oxidation states in the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs.[22] By comparing the Co 2p spectra of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs, it was found The spectra of Fe 2p in Figure 3c depicted a spin-orbit splitting into 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 along with the satellite peaks.[23] The binding energies of Fe 2p3/2 for Co2Fe1-LDH, Co3Fe1-LDH, and Co4Fe1-LDH were 713.40, 713.70, and 733.60 eV, respectively. Similarly, the binding energies of Fe also shifted towards high binding energy from Co2Fe1-LDH to Co4Fe1-LDH, suggesting that the valence state of the Fe element increased due to the transfer of electrons from Fe to O and then to Co with the increased incorporation content of Fe in the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. Meanwhile, it also manifested that the incorporation of Fe in the LDHs structure affected the electronic interactions around the Co, Fe, and O atoms. Appropriate metal element ratio of LDHs could enhance the adsorption capacity for surface OH species, and achieve excellent electrocatalytic performance at low potential. As shown in the O 1s spectra of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs (Figure 3d), three peaks at 529.8, 531.8, and 534.0 eV were associated with the characteristic metal-oxygen (M O M), hydroxyl oxygen (M O H), and water adsorbed on the surface, respectively.[24] It was shown that the M O M area decreased with the increase of Fe content from Co2Fe1-LDH to Co4Fe1-LDH, indicating that the electron transfer was regulated by the changes in the ratio of Co and Fe, thus enhancing the interaction between O atoms and OH groups to obtain excellent ECO performance. It was obvious that the proportion of OH groups in Co3Fe1-LDH was the highest among the three samples. From these results, it was verified that the amount of surface OH groups in Co3Fe1-LDH was larger than those in Co2Fe1-LDH and Co4Fe1-LDH, which could provide more active sites for BA adsorption and accelerate the fracture of O H bond to promote catalytic reaction effectively.

X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (XAFS) as a convincing characterization was performed to probe the changes in the localized electronic and coordination structure of the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs. As shown in Figure 4a, the energy positions in Co K-edge XANES spectra of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs decreased in the sequence of Co2Fe1-LDH*>*Co3Fe1-LDH*>*Co4Fe1-LDH, demonstrating the reduced oxidation state of Co along with the increase of Co/Fe ratio, which was caused by electron transfer between metal elements. The Co EXAFS k<sup>3</sup> χ(k) oscillation functions of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs (Figure 4b) showed the similarly trends of amplitude, illustrating the subtle differences in the Co coordination environment. Moreover, the Co K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs illustrated two shells including the first shell Co O (~1.6 Å) and second shell Co Co/Fe (~2.7 Å) (Figure 4c). With the increase of Co/Fe ratio, the Co O shell and the Co Co/Fe shell for Co*x*Fe*y*-

**Figure 4.** (a) Co K-edge XANES spectra, (b) Co K-edge EXAFS oscillation functions k3 χ(k), (c) magnitude of k3 -weighted FT of the Co K-edge extended EXAFS spectra, (d) Fe K-edge XANES spectra (the inset was the enlarged adsorption edge), (e) Fe K-edge oscillation functions k3 χ(k), and (f) magnitude of k3 -weighted FT of the Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra for Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs.

LDHs decreased significantly, indicating the increased of defect structure. On the contrary, with the increased of Co/Fe ratio (Figure 4d), the energy positions of Fe K-edge increased in the sequence of Co2Fe1-LDH*<*Co3Fe1-LDH*<*Co4Fe1-LDH, indicating that the electrons around Fe atom moved towards the surrounding O atom, forming the metal position of high valence state. The Fe EXAFS k3 χ(k) oscillation functions of the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs (Figure 4e) showed the similarly trends of amplitude, implying the Fe atom coordination environment occurred insignificant structural changes. The Fe EXAFS spectra of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs (Figure 4f) exhibited two major peaks corresponding to the Fe O shell (~1.5 Å) and the Fe Fe/Co shell (~2.7 Å), respectively. Meanwhile, the intensity of Fe O shell increased with the increase of Co/Fe ratio of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs, and the second shell shifted to the lower *R* direction, which confirmed a large degree of structural disorder in LDH. The EXAFS data strongly certified the existence of vacancies, which could have an impact on the ECO performance of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs.

Energy band structure of materials had an important effect on catalytic performance. In this study, the band structure of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs were further investigated with U-visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UV-vis DRS) and Mott-Schottky measurements. As shown in Figure 5a, all of samples exhibited wide absorption range from 200 to 800 nm, and the band centred at 531 nm was concerned with the transition of <sup>4</sup> T1g(F)!<sup>4</sup> T1g(P) of [Co(H2O)6] 2+.

According to the plot of transformed Kubelka-Munk function versus the energy of exciting light, Co3Fe1-LDH

**Figure 5.** (a) UV-visible diffuse reflectance spectra (UV-vis DRS), (b) Tauc plots (the insert was diagram of the magnified bandgap values), (c) Mott-Schottky plot, and (d) mechanism schematic band diagrams of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs, respectively.

exhibited the smallest bandgap (~1.39 eV) among all samples (Figure 5b and S2), meanwhile, the bandgaps were evaluated to be ~1.50 eV for Co2Fe1-LDH and ~1.62 eV for Co4Fe1-LDH, respectively. The narrow bandgap ensures it more easily for Co ions to be excited from the valence band (VB) to the conduction band (CB).[8e] Hence, the efficiency of electron/ions transmission was significantly enhanced, and the ECO of BA capability was also greatly promoted. Based on the results of Mott-Schottky plots (Figure 5c), the top of the VB of Co3Fe1-LDH was 0.84 eV *vs.* Ag/AgCl (pH=7) (Figure 5d), and the bottom of the CB was about 0.55 eV. It is noted that the EVB of Co3Fe1-LDH (0.84 eV) was more positive than those of Co2Fe1-LDH and Co4Fe1-LDH, suggesting Co3Fe1-LDH could have better oxidation capacity of BA. These results indicated that Co3Fe1-LDH with an appropriate band structure could provide an appropriate thermodynamic driving force in ECO of BA process.

The ECO performance of the Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs were estimated in a standard three-electrode system. The linear sweeping voltammetry (LSV) curves of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs in different electrolytes were measured to evaluate the intrinsic activity (Figure 6a). The LSV curves of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs showed initial peaks at the range from ~1.25 V to ~1.45 V *vs.* RHE in 1.0 M KOH+10 mM BA solution that might be ascribed to convolution of the BA oxidation and the redox peaks of Co/Fe, which was lower than that in 1.0 M KOH solution, suggesting that Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs enabled the improved ECO performance. Noticeably, Co3Fe1-LDH showed a lower potential of 1.51 V (*vs.* RHE) at a high total current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , which was much lower than those of Co2Fe1-LDH (1.53 V) and Co4Fe1-LDH (1.54 V). As a contrast, the commercial references exhibited higher potentials at the same current density (Figure S3), indicating that a synergistic effect between Co and Fe in Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs was essential to optimize ECO of BA. Moreover, the Tafel slops of the corresponding polarization curves could reveal the charge transfer resistance and electrochemical reaction kinetics of the electrocatalysts. The lower Tafel slopes were attributed to better charge transfer kinetics.

**Figure 6.** (a) LSV curves of  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs in 1.0 M KOH with 10 mM BA (solid line) and without 10 mM BA (dotted lines) at a scanning rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (b) Tafel slopes with corresponding error bars, (c)  $C_{dl}$  calculations, and (d) Nyquist plots (the insert was diagram of equivalent circuit diagram) of  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs.

As shown in Figure 6b, the Tafel slope of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH (91.56 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) was lower than those of the other Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>y</sub>-LDHs (107.32 and 161.65 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for Co<sub>2</sub>Fe₁-LDH and Co₄Fe₁-LDH, respectively), indicating Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH possess better charge transfer kinetic. Based on the comparison of the Tafel slopes and LSV curves, a certain amount of Fe incorporation was beneficial to the excitation of Co-based LDH performance, but excessive Fe was too counterproductive to enhance the electrocatalytic activity of Co-based LDH nanosheets. When the ratio of Co/Fe reached to 3:1, the appropriate Fe content could regulate the adsorption properties of OH species on the surface and promote the breaking of O-H bond of BA, thus promoting the electrocatalytic reaction. Generally, the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) was applied to evaluate the area of active regions that was calculated by the C<sub>dl</sub> from CV curves with different scan rates to reveal the activity of the Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>v</sub>-LDHs, and the calculation equation can be described as ECSA = C<sub>dl</sub>/Cs (where Cs is the specific capacitance of the sample) (Figure 6c and S4).The C<sub>dl</sub> value for Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH was 0.99 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>, which was larger than those of Co<sub>2</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH (0.97 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>) and Co<sub>4</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH (0.81 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>), suggesting more effective active sites and better electrochemical activity of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH. [25] The ECSA values of Co<sub>2</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, and Co<sub>4</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH were calculated to be 2.02, 2.06, and 1.69 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The oxidation currents normalized to ECSA could represent the intrinsic activity of electrocatalysts, and the normalized LSV curves for Co<sub>2</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, and Co<sub>4</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH were measured. As shown in Figure S5, Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH still showed highest potential at the same current density, suggesting that rather than the active surface area, other factors, such as the flower-like structure and the corresponding electrical conductivity, contribute to the higher ECO performance of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH. It was well known that superior electrical conductivity could facilitate reaction kinetics at the active sites. Therefore, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was performed on Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>y</sub>-LDHs to access the conductivity during the ECO of BA process. As the Nyquist plots shown in Figure 6d, the Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH had the smallest semi-circular radius than those of Co<sub>2</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, and Co<sub>4</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, suggesting markedly declined chargetransfer resistance (R<sub>ct</sub>) and more excellent electrode kinetics in Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH, which could result in the enhancement of conductivity caused by the optimized composition of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH. In addition, R<sub>ct</sub> obtained from fitting of EIS data could be used as a common parameter to evaluate the electrical conductivity of electrocatalysts. The equivalent circuit diagram revealed the resistance of electrolyte (R<sub>s</sub>) and R<sub>ct</sub> of Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>v</sub>-LDHs for ECO of BA. Compared to Co<sub>2</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH (15.23 Ω) and Co<sub>4</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH (45.12  $\Omega$ ), Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH showed lowest R<sub>ct</sub> value of 10.91  $\Omega$ (Table S3), confirming that the superior catalytic activity of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH was mainly due to fast electron transfer.

The ECO of BA was evaluated using  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs as electrocatalysts, and the BA conversion and products selectivity were evaluated by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). During the electrochemical procedure of ECO of BA, three HPLC peaks identified as BA at ~6.48 min, benzoic acid (BAC) at ~8.48 min, and benzaldehyde (BAD) at ~14.31 min were detected (Figure S6). During the ECO of BA process, a large amount of  $H_2$  was generated overtime in the cathode cell (Figure S7), which also confirmed the ECO of BA was promoted in the anodic cell. For comparison, Fe(OH) $_3$  and Co(OH) $_2$  commercial materials were used as electrodes to evaluate the influence of electrocatalysts on the BA conversion and products selectivity. As shown in Figure 7a and 7b, when Fe(OH) $_3$  and

Figure 7. (a) BA conversion and (b) product selectivity over different catalysts. (c) BA conversion and (d) product selectivity at 25 °C under different potential (0.4~0.9 V vs. Ag/AgCl); (e), (f) Recycling performance of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH. Reaction conditions: 35 mL of 10 mM BA, 20 mg catalyst, 0.8 V vs. Ag/AgCl, 8 h, 25 °C.

Co(OH)2 were applied as electrode materials, the BA conversion were determined to be 71.28% and 79.65%, while the selectivity of BAC were 87.31% and 88.17%. When Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs was used as electrodes, the conversion of BA and selectivity of BAC were greatly improved. The influence of Co/Fe ratio of Co*x*Fe*y*-LDHs for ECO of BA was also investigated under the same conditions, and the Co3Fe1-LDH showed the highest conversion and selectivity after 8 h (96.79% and 94.93%, respectively), which was higher than those of Co2Fe1-LDH (94.53%, 90.60%), and Co4Fe1-LDH (82.86%, 89.16%). This result indicated that the ECO of BA was significantly influenced by the Co/Fe ratio. All these results demonstrated the favorable performance of Co3Fe1-LDH for ECO of BA, which was comparable to most of the precious metal electrocatalysts reported for BA oxidation reactions (Tables S4). To explore the influence of substrate used in the electrode preparation process on the ECO activity, the ECO of BA of Co3Fe1-LDH using Ni foil and NF as the substrates was evaluated. As shown in Figure S8, only 3.03% conversation of BA and 32.52% selectivity of BAC can be achieved using NF as substrate (denoted as Co3Fe1-LDH/NF), suggesting that the effect of NF on the ECO of BA was weak. When Ni foil was used as the substrate to prepare the electrode (denoted as Co3Fe1-LDH/Ni foil), the BA conversion and BAC selectivity were 95.77% and 94.87%, respectively, which was almost the same as the ECO performance of the Co3Fe1-LDH/NF, suggesting that the use of NF for preparing electrodes was acceptable. Furthermore, the effect of different BA concentration on the ECO performance was also investigated and the results were shown in Figure S9 and Table S5. When the percentage of BA increased from the 32% to 96%, the conversion of BA decreased from 35.98% to 19.18%, which were much lower than that obtained from 1.0 M KOH+10 mM BA (i. e. 0.1% BA and 99.9% water) catalytic system. Besides, selectivity of BAC obtained from the catalytic systems of high concentration of BA showed similarly trend. These results could be ascribed to the low solubility of BA in KOH solution impeded the selective oxidation in the electrocatalytic process, resulting in extremely low conversion and product selectivity. Based on the experimental results, the concentration of BA played an important role in BA conversion and BAC selectivity. Therefore, Co3Fe1-LDH was applied as electrocatalysts and the concentration of 10 mM BA was employed in the ECO process below.

To future study the effect of external conditions on ECO of BA, control experiments were carried out by adjusting potentials. As seen in Figure 7c and 7d, both the BA conversion and BAC selectivity were firstly increasing and then decreasing with the potential increasing from 0.4 to 0.9 V *vs.* Ag/AgCl (Figure S10). When the potential was 0.8 V, BA conversion (~96.79%) and BAC selectivity reached the highest values (~94.93%). As a consequence, 0.8 V *vs.* Ag/AgCl was chosen as the optimized potential for ECO of BA. Usually, the stability of catalysts played a vital role for the practical application of electrocatalysts, thus the reusability of the electric catalyst was assessed. To study the long-term stability of the Co3Fe1-LDH in the ECO of BA process, the CA curve was recorded at 0.8 V (*vs.* AgCl) in 10 M KOH+10 mM BA solution for 8 h. As shown in Figure S11, Co3Fe1-LDH still maintained nearly constant current density after 8 h, which revealed that Co3Fe1-LDH had superior operational stability. As shown in Figure 7e and 7f, six cycles of ECO of BA over Co3Fe1-LDH were conducted and no significant degradation in electrocatalytic performance was observed. After six cycles, the BA conversion was 94.74% and the BAC selectivity was 92.10%. In addition, the structural characterizations of the recycled Co3Fe1-LDH (denoted as Re-Co3Fe1-LDH) were carried out. The XRD pattern and FT-IR spectra of Re-Co3Fe1-LDH showed that there was almost no shifting occurred for the diffractions and absorption bands, suggesting stable crystal structure of LDH and no new organic or inorganic functional groups were detected after the ECO reaction (Figure S12). SEM and HRTEM images confirmed that the morphology of Co3Fe1-LDH nanosheets were well maintained and the lattice fringe did not distort during the ECO of BA (Figure S13 and S14). In addition, the real percentage of Co and Fe in the Co3Fe1-LDH and Re-Co3Fe1-LDH were measured by the EDX test (Figure S13). The atomic ratios of Co/Fe for Co3Fe1-LDH and Re-Co3Fe1-LDH were calculated to be 2.94 and 2.70, respectively. To further explain the valence states and electronic characteristics of different elements after ECO of BA, XPS analysis of Re-Co3Fe1-LDH was carried out (Figure S15). The results showed that the corresponding atomic ratios of Co/Fe of Co3Fe1-LDH and Re-Co3Fe1-LDH were determined to be 2.37 and 1.42, respectively, which might be ascribed to the Co and Fe atoms on the catalyst surface participated in the ECO process, indicating the surface structure of the catalysts slightly changed. The above results clearly proved that Co3Fe1-LDH had relatively good durability for ECO of BA.

Due to the ECO of BA being fulfilled in an aqueous solution, the OER may be a competitive reaction and hinder the ECO reaction. As shown in Figure 8a, a pair of redox peaks at 1.15 and 1.34 V (V *vs.* RHE) could be observed from the CV curve of Co3Fe1-LDH in the absence of BA, which could be ascribed to the transformation between M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/M3<sup>+</sup> (M=Co, Fe) on the Co3Fe1-LDH surface. In contrast, only a weak oxidation peak at

**Figure 8.** (a) CV curves, (b) LSV curves, and (c) Tafel slopes with corresponding error bars of Co3Fe1-LDH with and without 10 mM BA at a scanning rate of 5 mV s 1 . (d) The capacitive currents at 0.30 V *vs.* Ag/AgCl as a function of the scan rate for Co3Fe1-LDH with and without BA.

1.26 V (V vs. RHE) was detected in the presence of BA, suggesting the ECO of BA involved. It worth noting that the very weakly oxidation peak of BA in the reverse sweep was observed, implying that the catalyst surface participated in the ECO of BA and took place changes. Furthermore, the current density of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH increased significantly for the CV curve measured in the electrolyte containing BA, indicating that Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH had an obvious electrocatalytic performance for ECO of BA. From LSV curves in Figure 8b, Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH exhibited a lower potential (1.51 V vs. RHE) at a total current density of 50 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> for ECO of BA. On the contrary, the potential of OER was 1.57 V vs. RHE for Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH at the same current density. The results of LSV and CV showed that the oxidation of BA was considerably easier than OER catalyzed by Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH. Moreover, the Tafel slope of 91.56 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for ECO of BA was lower than that for OER (117.03 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 8c), implying superior kinetics of the ECO of BA on the Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH. The C<sub>dl</sub> of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH (0.99 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>) for ECO of BA was indeed larger than that (0.59 mF/cm<sup>2</sup>) in water oxidation (Figure 8d and S16), further proving that the ECO of BA was more likely to occur in this system. In addition, the Faradaic efficiency reflects the utilization efficiency of electrons involved in an electrochemical system, and it can be calculated as follows: Faradaic efficiency = 4Fn/(lt), where F, n, I, and t are Coulomb constant, the experimentally product amount, constant oxidation current and certain time. The Faraday efficiency of Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH for ECO of BA to BAC was evaluated to be 71.0%, suggesting the ECO of BA was the primary catalytic reaction.

To reveal the intrinsic mechanism of ECO of BA, the trapping experiments were performed in the reaction process. Trapping reagents such as, tertiary butanol (TBA), p-benzoquinone (BQ), and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) were used for scavenging the active species, including hydroxyl radicals (\*OH), superoxide (\*O<sub>2</sub>-) and carbon-centered radicals (R\*), respectively. As shown in Figure 9a, when TBA was added to the solution, BA conversion was inhibited nearly completely, determining that \*OH was a key factor in ECO of BA. Moreover, with the adding of  ${}^{\bullet}O_{2}^{-}$  scavenger (BQ) and carbon-centered radicals (BHT) for the ECO of the BA, the conversion of BA reduced from 96.79% to 68.68% and 77.55%, and the selectivity of BAC decreased from 94.93% to 82.39% and 84.65%, respectively (Figure 9b). These results testified that free radicals accelerated the oxidation rate of BA in the electrocatalytic process, and the \*OH radical, R\* and \*O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> played a vital role in electrocatalytic process.

According to the above results and previous reports, the reaction pathway to produce BAC on the surface of  $Co_3Fe_1$ -LDH (Figure 9c) was prefer to follow the Fleischmann mechanism. Firstly, with the introduction of an external current, BA was adsorbed on the surface of  $Co_3Fe_1$ -LDH, and then BA underwent a dehydrogenation process to form  $C_7H_7O^*$  and higher valence oxyhydroxide ( $M^{(II)}OOH$ , M=Co/Fe) (Step I). In the following step, dehydrogenation process occurred at the  $\alpha$ -position of the  $C_7H_7O^*$  to form  $C_7H_6O^*$  under the action of  $M^{(II)}OOH/M^{(II)}OOH$  transition (Step II). Latterly,  $C_7H_6O^*$  could interact with  $OH^-$  in the solution to form BAD or  $C_7H_7O_2^*$  (Step III). Finally, electron transferred from  $C_7H_7O_2^*$  to  $M^{(III)}OOH$ , resulting in the formation

**Figure 9.** (a) The conversion of BA oxidation and (b) its product selectivity in the addition of various scavengers respectively. Reaction condition: 25 °C, 35 mL of 10 mM BA, 20 mg catalyst, 0.8 V vs. Ag/AgCl, 8 h; (c) The mechanism of selective oxidation of BA to BAC.

of BAC and M<sup>(II)</sup>OOH (Step IV), and then reacted with hydroxide ions to complete the electrocatalytic cycle.

#### **Conclusions**

In summary, Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>v</sub>-LDH nanosheets as an efficient noble metalfree anode material were synthesized, which exhibited excellent electrocatalytic activity and outstanding ECO of BA in a water medium. Moreover, the simultaneous H<sub>2</sub> production and selective ECO of BA with high BA conversion (96.79%) and BAC selectivity rate (94.93%) was achieved by employing Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH electrocatalyst in a two-electrode electrolyzer. Besides, the Co<sub>3</sub>Fe<sub>1</sub>-LDH show excellent cycling performance, where 94.74% conversion of BA and 92.10% selectivity of BAC remained after six cycles. The superior ECO performance could be attributed to the Fe electron centers local regulation of Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>v</sub>-LDH, which affected the electron interactions around Co, Fe, and O atoms, and the synergistic effects between the adaptable proportion of Co and Fe metal elements modulated the band gap width of LDHs and its adsorption for OH species, thus significantly improved the reaction kinetics, thereby enhanced the overall electrocatalytic activity. Notably, this work provided the possibility for designing efficient electrocatalytic coupling of biomass oxidation to produce hydrogen.

### **Experimental Section**

#### Materials

Formamide and Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·9H<sub>2</sub>O were obtained from Aladdin Bio-Chem Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China). Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and Benzyl alcohol (BA, 99%) were purchased from Rhawn Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. KOH, NaOH, and NaNO<sub>3</sub> were provided from and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

2199692x, 2023,

Xilong Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Nickel foam (NF, with thickness = 1.5 mm) was bought from Changde Liyuan New Material Co., Ltd. Nafion solution (5%) was bought from Format New Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China). All of the above chemicals were without further treatment.

#### Characterizations

X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns were characterized by X' Pert PRO X-ray diffractometer using a Cu K $\alpha$  radiation source ( $\lambda$ = 1.5405 Å, 5°/min in the  $2\theta$  range of 5 and 70°). Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra were carried out between 400-4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> on a spectrometer (Thermo Nicolet NEXUS 670). The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area determined on TriStarlI3200. Morphologies and microstructures of the samples were examined with a scanning electron microscope (SFM, Hitachi S4800) and transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEOL JEM-2010). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed on Thermo Scientific Ka X-ray photoelectron spectrometer, in which all the binding energies were corrected by the standard C 1s spectra (284.8 eV). X-ray absorption structures (XAS) of materials were collected from 1 W1B and 4B7B laser beams at the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF). Ultraviolet-visible diffuse reflectance spectra (UV-vis DRS) were recorded via a UV/Vis/NIR spectrophotometer (UV3600, Shimadzu).

#### Synthesis of Co<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>v</sub>-LDHs

 $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs (x:y=2:1,3:1,4:1) nanosheets were prepared by one-step coprecipitation process.<sup>[26]</sup> In the typical process, the 10 mL  $Co(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$  (0.6 mmol) and  $Fe(NO_3)_3 \cdot 9H_2O$  (0.2 mmol) aqueous solution were added into 10 mL  $NaNO_3$  (0.2 mmol) solution containing 23 vol% formamide and continuously stirred at 80 °C. In the meantime, 0.02 M NaOH solution was added to maintain the system at a pH value of ~10. The titration was finished in 5 minutes, and the obtained precipitate was centrifugally washed and dried at 60 °C. Finally, these obtained  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs samples were named as  $Co_2Fe_1$ -LDH,  $Co_3Fe_1$ -LDH, and  $Co_4Fe_1$ -LDH, with Co/Fe raw molar ratios (x:y) of 2:1, 3:1, and 4:1, respectively.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

The ECO of BA was carried out with  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs (x:y=2:1, 3:1, 4:1) on Nickel foam (NF) substrate as working electrode materials. Firstly, NF ( $1\times2$  cm²) was pre-processed with 1 M HCl solution, acetone and absolute ethanol (each time for 30 min), respectively. Then, weighted 20 mg  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs mixed with 10  $\mu$ L Nafion solution were dispersed in 2 mL ethanol, and the mixture was sonicated for 30 min to gain a homogeneous ink solution. Thereafter, the above ink solution was coated on a pre-processed NF with an area of  $1\times1$  cm², which was dried at  $60\,^{\circ}$ C for 6 hours to acquire working electrode required for testing.

The CHI660E electrochemical workstation equipped with a standard three-electrode cell (Shanghai, China) was used for electrochemical measurements in 1.0 M KOH, where  $Co_xFe_y$ -LDHs supported by NF was used as working electrode, a Pt mesh (1×1 cm²) and the saturated Ag/AgCl electrode were applied as counter electrode and reference electrode, respectively. The potentials recorded against an Ag/AgCl electrode, were converted into the potentials vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) through the equation:  $E_{RHE} = E_{Ag/AgCl} + 0.059pH + 0.197$ . Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were obtained at a weeping rate of 5 mV s $^{-1}$ . Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were obtained at open circuit potential from 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz. The Mott-Schottky

tests were studied in 0.1 M  $\rm Na_2SO_4$  electrolyte. Geometric double-layer capacitance ( $\rm C_{cl}$ ) was measured through cyclic voltammetry (CV) at various scanning rates of 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 mV/s with the potential range of 0.26 to 0.34 V (vs. Ag/AgCl). The electrochemical active surface areas (ECSA) of obtained catalysts were calculated from the  $\rm C_{cl}$  values. The chronoamperometric (CA) curve of  $\rm Co_3Fe_1$ -LDH was performed in 1.0 M KOH+10 mM BA solution with a potential of 0.8 V (vs. Ag/AgCl) at room temperature.

#### Electrocatalytic oxidation of benzyl alcohol

A conventional H-type electrochemical cell separated by a Nafion-117 membrane was utilized for selectively ECO of BA equipped with Co<sub>v</sub>Fe<sub>v</sub>-LDHs and Pt mesh as anode and cathode, respectively. 35 mL of 1.0 M KOH + 10 mM BA solution was used in the anodic cell, while 35 mL of 1.0 M KOH was used in the cathodic cell. The ECO was carried out for 8 h at a series of initial potentials (0.4~0.9 V) at room temperature. Recycled ECO performance was evaluated by chronoamperometry for 6 consecutive times in 35 mL KOH+10 mM BA solution with 0.8 V working potential at room temperature. After reactions, BA and its oxidizing products were quantified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) instrument (Thermo Fisher U 3000 is equipped with an UV detector and a C18 (2) column). 0.02 M Formic acid aqueous solution and acetonitrile (volume ratio of HCOOH/CH3CN=70:30) were used as the mobile phase with a flow rate of 1 mL/min. The conversion of BA (C<sub>RA</sub>) and the selectivity (S) of its oxidizing products were defined as the follows:

$$C_{BA} (\%) = \frac{C_{BA}^{0} - C_{BA}^{t}}{C_{BA}^{0}} \times 100\%$$
 (1)

$$S_{BAC} (\%) = \frac{C_{BAC}}{C_{RAC} + C_{RAD}} \times 100\%$$
 (2)

$$S_{BAD} (\%) = \frac{C_{BAD}}{C_{BAC} + C_{BAD}} \times 100\%$$
(3)

where  $C_{BA}^0$  and  $C_{BA}^t$  are concentrations of BA at initial and at different reaction times,  $C_N$  is the concentrations of the oxidizing products (N= benzoic acid (BAC), benzaldehyde (BAD)) at different reaction times.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 42062003), the Research Foundation of State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering (No. CRE-2022-01-01), the Research Foundation of Key Laboratory of New Processing Technology for Nonferrous Metal & Materials, Ministry of Education/Guangxi Key Laboratory of Optical and Electronic Materials and Devices (No. 22KF-23), the Research Foundation of Guangxi Key Laboratory of Superhard Material, National Engineering Research Center for Special Mineral Material, Guangxi Technology Innovation Center for Special Mineral Material (No. 2023-K-01).

**Research Article**

# *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Layered double hydroxides **·** Fe electron center local regulation **·** Synergistic effect **·** Electrocatalytic reaction **·** Benzyl alcohol oxidation

- [1] a) B. You, X. Liu, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, [4564–4570;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b00876) b) L. Du, Y. Sun, B. You, *[Materials](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matre.2020.12.001) Reports: Energy* **2021**, *1*, 100004; c) M. Xiang, N. Wang, Z. Xu, H. Zhang, Z. Yan, *[ChemPlusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cplu.202100327)* **2021**, *86*, 1307–1315; d) D. M. Morales, D. Jambrec, M. A. Kazakova, M. Braun, N. Sikdar, A. Koul, A. C. Brix, S. Seisel, C. Andronescu, W. Schuhmann, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04150)* **2022**, *12*, [982–992;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04150) e) Y. Zhang, Z. Xue, X. Zhao, B. Zhang, T. Mu, *[Green](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1GC04499K) Chem.* **2022**, *24*, [1721–1731](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1GC04499K); f) H. A. Miller, A. Lavacchi, F. Vizza, *[Curr.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2020.02.001) Opin. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2020.02.001)* **2020**, *21*, 140–145; g) Y. Wang, S. Gonell, U. R. Mathiyazhagan, Y. Liu, D. Wang, A. J. M. Miller, T. J. Meyer, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b01616) Energ. Mater.* **2019**, *2*, [97–101.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b01616)
- [2] a) Q. Dai, J. Zhou, X. Meng, D. Feng, C. Wu, J. Chen, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2015.12.054) Eng. J.* **2016**, *289*, [239–246](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2015.12.054); b) Q. Han, X.-T. Zhou, X.-Q. He, H.-B. Ji, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2021.116847) Eng. Sci.* **2021**, *245*, [116847;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2021.116847) c) S. Toprak Döşlü, A. Döner, R. Yıldız, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 22409–22421; d) K. Lagerblom, E. Lagerspets, J. Keskiväli, C. Cook, F. Ekholm, A. Parviainen, T. Repo, *[ChemCatChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201700710)* **2017**, *9*, [3880–3887;](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201700710) e) S. Bera, F. Banerjee, S. K. Samanta, *ChemNanoMat* **2023**, *9*, e202300088.
- [3] M. Fleischmann, K. Korinek, D. Pletcher, *J. [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(71)80040-2) Chem. Interfacial [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(71)80040-2)* **1971**, *31*, 39–41.
- [4] M. T. Bender, K. S. Choi, *ChemSusChem* **2022**, *15*, 1864–5631.
- [5] a) N. Dimitratos, J. A. Lopez-Sanchez, D. Morgan, A. Carley, L. Prati, G. J. Hutchings, *Catal. Today* **2007**, *122*, [317–324;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2007.01.002) b) A. Corma, H. Garcia, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2008**, *37*, [2096–2126;](https://doi.org/10.1039/b707314n) c) S.-i. Yamazaki, M. Yao, N. Fujiwara, Z. Siroma, K. Yasuda, T. Ioroi, *Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc30888f)* **2012**, *48*, 4353– [4355;](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc30888f) d) G. Liu, X. Zhang, C. Zhao, Q. Xiong, W. Gong, G. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, *New J. Chem.* **2018**, *42*, [6381–6388](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NJ00446C); e) G. Zhang, Z. Zhang, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2020**, *7*, [2231–2240.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0QI00233J)
- [6] L. Gao, W. Yue, S. Tao, L. Fan, *[Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/la303663x)* **2013**, *29*, 957–964.
- [7] R. Li, P. Kuang, L. Wang, H. Tang, J. Yu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *431*, [134137.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.134137)
- [8] a) T.-H. Ko, K. Devarayan, M.-K. Seo, H.-Y. Kim, B.-S. Kim, *Sci. Rep.* **2016**, *6*, 20313; b) D. Hassen, S. A. El-Safty, K. Tsuchiya, A. Chatterjee, A. Elmarakbi, M. A. Shenashen, M. Sakai, *Sci. Rep.* **2016**, *6*, 24330; c) H. Huang, C. Yu, X. Han, H. Huang, Q. Wei, W. Guo, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE02607G) Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, [4990–4999;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE02607G) d) Q. Wang, L. Chen, S. Guan, X. Zhang, B. Wang, X. Cao, Z. Yu, Y. He, D. G. Evans, J. Feng, D. Li, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03655) Catal.* **2018**, *8*, [3104–3115;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03655) e) Y. Y. Huang, R. Yang, G. Anandhababu, J. F. Xie, J. Q. Lv, X. T. Zhao, X. Y. Wang, M. X. Wu, Q. H. Li, Y. B. Wang, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b01071) Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, [1854–1860](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b01071); f) F. Pazoki, M. Shamsayei, S. Bagheri, E. Yazdani, A. Heydari, *Appl. Clay Sci.* **2020**, *187*, [105494;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clay.2020.105494) g) W. Liu, D. Zheng, T. Deng, Q. Chen, C. Zhu, C. Pei, H. Li, F. Wu, W. Shi, S.-W. Yang, Y. Zhu, X. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [10614–10619.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202100371)
- [9] a) P. Hao, R. Xu, Q. Wang, Z. Zhao, H. Wen, J. Xie, F. Lei, G. Cui, B. Tang, *Chem. Commun.* **2021**, *57*, [13752–13755](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CC05752A); b) Y. Huang, R. Yang, G. Anandhababu, J. Xie, J. Lv, X. Zhao, X. Wang, M. Wu, Q. Li, Y. Wang, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b01071) Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, [1854–1860;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b01071) c) J. Zhao, J.-J. Zhang, Z.-Y. Li, X.-H. Bu, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2003916; d) F. Arshad, T. u. Haq, I. Hussain, F. Sher, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c01932) Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2021**, *4*, [8685–8701;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c01932) e) Z. Zhao, Q. Shao, J. Xue, B. Huang, Z. Niu, H. Gu, X. Huang, J. Lang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [310–316.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3475-z)
- [10] a) H. Han, K. M. Kim, J. H. Ryu, H. J. Lee, J. Woo, G. Ali, K. Y. Chung, T. Kim, S. Kang, S. Choi, J. Kwon, Y.-C. Chung, S. Mhin, T. Song, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.104945)*

- *Energy* **2020**, *75*, [104945;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.104945) b) B. Liu, X. Wang, S. Wang, H.-Q. Peng, T. Xiao, G. Liu, S. Bai, Y. Zhao, W. Zhang, Y.-F. Song, *Mater. Today [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2022.101082)* **2022**, *28*, [101082;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2022.101082) c) Z. Jiao, Y. Chen, M. Du, M. Demir, F. Yan, W. Xia, Y. Zhang, C. Wang, M. Gu, X. Zhang, J. Zou, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2022.11.131) Sci.* **2023**, *633*, 723– [736.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2022.11.131)
- [11] a) X. Zhang, A. Wu, D. Wang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, C. Jin, Y. Xie, C. Tian, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122474) Catal. B* **2023**, *328*, [122474;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122474) b) Y. Lin, K. Sun, X. Chen, C. Chen, Y. Pan, X. Li, J. Zhang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *55*, [92–101](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.06.073).
- [12] S.-H. Ye, Z.-X. Shi, J.-X. Feng, Y.-X. Tong, G.-R. Li, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201712549) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [2672–2676.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201712549)
- [13] a) Q. Wang, D. O'Hare, *Chem. Rev.* **2012**, *112*, [4124–4155;](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr200434v) b) J. Yu, F. Yu, M.-F. Yuen, C. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [9389–9430](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA11910E); c) H. Feng, J. Yu, L. Tang, J. Wang, H. Dong, T. Ni, J. Tang, W. Tang, X. Zhu, C. Liang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *297*, [120478](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120478); d) X. Kong, B. Xia, Y. Xiao, H. Chen, H. Li, W. Chen, P. Wu, Y. Shen, J. Wu, S. Li, F. Huo, W. Zhang, B. Zheng, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b01370) Appl. Nano Mater.* **2019**, *2*, [6387–6396;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b01370) e) J. Shang, C. Xu, Q. Wang, S. Wang, J. Chen, X. Wang, *ACS Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2022**, *5*, [12427–12436;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.2c02062) f) M. Ishizaki, H. Tanno, H. Sutoh, T. Katsuki, T. Hayasaka, M. Yagi, Y. Tsubonouchi, K. Tajima, T. Kawamoto, Y. Sakuda, M. Kurihara, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.0c01439) Energ. Mater.* **2020**, *3*, [9040–9050](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.0c01439).
- [14] a) G. A. Gebreslase, M. V. Martínez-Huerta, M. J. Lázaro, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.10.009) Chem.* **2022**, *67*, [101–137](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.10.009); b) Q. Li, T. Yang, S. Liao, L. Yang, X. Xu, F. Wang, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2022.104300) Energy [Storage](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2022.104300)* **2022**, *50*, 104300; c) G. Karim-Nezhad, S. Pashazadeh, A. Pashazadeh, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2012**, *33*, [1809–1816](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(11)60452-X); d) Y. Song, Z. Li, K. Fan, Z. Ren, W. Xie, Y. Yang, M. Shao, M. Wei, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120669) B* **2021**, *299*, [120669;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120669) e) Y. Li, Y. Xu, C. Li, W. Zhu, W. Chen, Y. Zhao, R. Liu, L. Wang, *[Molecules](https://doi.org/10.3390/molecules28031173)* **2023**, *28*, 1173.
- [15] a) L. Xu, Z. Wang, X. Chen, Z. Qu, F. Li, W. Yang, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.12.065) Acta* **2018**, *260*, [898–904](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.12.065); b) N. Shilpa, A. Pandikassala, P. Krishnaraj, P. S. Walko, R. N. Devi, S. Kurungot, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c00982)* **2022**, *14*, 16222– [16232.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c00982)
- [16] a) F. Yang, K. Sliozberg, I. Sinev, H. Antoni, A. Bähr, K. Ollegott, W. Xia, J. Masa, W. Grünert, B. R. Cuenya, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, *[ChemSu](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201601272)sChem* **2017**, *10*, [156–165;](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201601272) b) Z. Wang, W. Liu, Y. Hu, L. Xu, M. Guan, J. Qiu, Y. Huang, J. Bao, H. Li, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2019**, *6*, [1890–1896;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9QI00404A) c) D. Yue, X. Yan, C. Guo, X. Qian, Y. Zhao, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.9b03597) Lett.* **2020**, *11*, 968– [973;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.9b03597) d) K. R. Park, J. Jeon, H. Choi, J. Lee, D.-H. Lim, N. Oh, H. Han, C. Ahn, B. Kim, S. Mhin, *ACS Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2022**, *5*, [8592–8600](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.2c01115).
- [17] P. F. Liu, S. Yang, B. Zhang, H. G. Yang, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b12803)* **2016**, *8*, [34474–34481.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b12803)
- [18] K. Ma, J. P. Cheng, J. Zhang, M. Li, F. Liu, X. Zhang, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.03.082) Acta* **2016**, *198*, [231–240.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.03.082)
- [19] a) R. Ma, J. Liang, K. Takada, T. Sasaki, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja1087216) Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 613– [620;](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja1087216) b) X. Liu, R. Ma, Y. Bando, T. Sasaki, *Adv. Funct. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201400193)* **2014**, *24*, [4292–4302.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201400193)
- [20] a) C. Hao, Y. Wu, Y. An, B. Cui, J. Lin, X. Li, D. Wang, M. Jiang, Z. Cheng, S. Hu, *Mater. Today Energy* **2019**, *12*, [453–462;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2019.04.009) b) F. Sun, Y. Zhou, Z. You, H. Xia, Y. Tuo, S. Wang, C. Jia, J. Zhang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2103307.
- [21] R. Liu, Y. Wang, D. Liu, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1701546– 1701552.
- [22] Y. Yang, L. Dang, M. J. Shearer, H. Sheng, W. Li, J. Chen, P. Xiao, Y. Zhang, R. J. Hamers, S. Jin, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1703189.
- [23] L. S. Zhong, J. S. Hu, H. P. Liang, A. M. Cao, W. G. Song, L. J. Wan, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.200600504) Mater.* **2006**, *18*, [2426–2431](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.200600504).
- [24] a) P. Babar, A. Lokhande, H. H. Shin, B. Pawar, M. G. Gang, S. Pawar, J. H. Kim, *Small* **2017**, *14*, 1702568; b) P. Ding, F. Luo, P. Wang, W. Xia, X. Xu, J. Hu, H. Zeng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [1105–1112](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA12377F).
- [25] a) H. Yang, T. Guo, D. Yin, Q. Liu, X. zhang, X. Zhang, *[Journal](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtice.2020.06.012) of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical [Engineers](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtice.2020.06.012)* **2020**, *112*, 212–221; b) Y. Hu, W. Liu, K. Jiang, L. Xu, M. Guan, J. Bao, H. Ji, H. Li, *Inorg. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0QI01003K) Front.* **2020**, *7*, [4461–4468](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0QI01003K).
- [26] R. Gao, D. Yan, *Nano Res.* **2018**, *11*, [1883–1894.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1806-x)

Manuscript received: August 25, 2023 Revised manuscript received: September 19, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: September 22, 2023 Version of record online: October 27, 2023