---
source: Yue 等 - 2025 - Polyoxometalated metal-organic framework superstructure for stable water oxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 50.584s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:45:17.655204Z
---

# **ELECTROCHEMISTRY**

# Polyoxometalated metal-organic framework superstructure for stable water oxidation

Kaihang Yue<sup>1,2,3</sup>†, Ruihu Lu<sup>4</sup>†, Mingbin Gao<sup>5</sup>†, Fei Song<sup>6</sup>, Yao Dai<sup>1</sup>, Chenfeng Xia<sup>2</sup>, Bingbao Mei<sup>6</sup>, Hongliang Dong<sup>7</sup>, Ruijuan Qi<sup>8</sup>, Daliang Zhang<sup>9</sup>, Jiangwei Zhang<sup>10</sup>\*, Ziyun Wang<sup>4</sup>\*, Fuqiang Huang<sup>11</sup>\*, Bao Yu Xia<sup>2,12</sup>\*, Ya Yan<sup>1,3</sup>\*

Stable, nonprecious catalysts are vital for large-scale alkaline water electrolysis. Here, we report a grafted superstructure, MOF@POM, formed by self-assembling a metal-organic framework (MOF) with polyoxometalate (POM). In situ electrochemical transformation converts MOF into active metal (oxy) hydroxides to produce a catalyst with a low overpotential of 178 millivolts at 10 milliamperes per square centimeter in alkaline electrolyte. An anion exchange membrane water electrolyzer incorporating this catalyst achieves 3 amperes per square centimeter at 1.78 volts at 80°C and stable operation at 2 amperes per square centimeter for 5140 hours at room temperature. In situ electrochemical spectroscopy and theoretical studies reveal that the synergistic interactions between metal atoms create a fast electron-transfer channel from catalytic iron and cobalt sites, nickel, and tungsten in the polyoxometalate to the electrode, stabilizing the metal sites and preventing dissolution.

ater electrolysis is a critical technology for renewable energy conversion and storage (1–7). Commercial systems require efficient, stable, and earthabundant catalysts, particularly for alkaline water oxidation, in which first-row (3d) transition-metal (oxy)hydroxides have shown promise over the past decades (8–13). However, achieving the required activity and stability at industrial-scale current densities remains challenging, primarily due to the substantial overpotential needed to drive water oxidation at the desired current densities. Under these operational conditions, the active

<sup>1</sup>State Key Laboratory of High Performance Ceramics and Superfine Microstructure, Shanghai Institute of Ceramics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. <sup>2</sup>School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, State Key Laboratory of Materials Processing and Die & Mould Technology, Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage (Ministry of Education), Hubei Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry and Service Failure, Wuhan National Laboratory for Optoelectronics, Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST), Wuhan, China. <sup>3</sup>Center of Materials Science and Optoelectronics Engineering, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. <sup>4</sup>School of Chemical Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 5National Engineering Laboratory for Methanol to Olefins, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian, China. <sup>6</sup>Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Shanghai Advanced Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China. Center for High Pressure Science and Technology Advanced Research, Shanghai, China. <sup>8</sup>Key Laboratory of Polar Materials and Devices (MOE), Department of Electronics, East China Normal University, Shanghai, China, 9Multiscale Porous Materials Center, Institute of Advanced Interdisciplinary Studies and School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Chongqing University, Chongqing, China. <sup>10</sup>College of Energy Material and Chemistry; Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Low Carbon Catalysis, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot, China. 11State Key Lab of Metal Matrix Composites, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China. 12 Center for Next-Generation Energy Materials and School of Chemical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU), Seobu-ro, Jangan-gu, Suwon, Gyeonggi-do,

\*Corresponding author. E-mail: zjw11@tsinghua.org.cn (J.Z.); ziyun.wang@auckland.ac.nz (Z.W.); huangfq@sjtu.edu.cn (F.H.); byxia@hust.edu.cn (B.Y.X.); yanya@mail.sic.ac.cn (Y.Y.) †These authors contributed equally to this work.

phase, typically metal (oxy)hydroxides, often degrades due to dissolution of catalytic metal sites or phase segregation (14-16). One critical limitation arises from the inherently weak interactions between metal atoms and oxygen, rendering active metal sites susceptible to dissolution in the electrolyte. Additionally, the high potential for water oxidation can induce localized structural distortions in the catalyst, resulting in mechanical degradation, such as the peeling of active sites or phases (14, 17). Despite various strategies to enhance activity and stability, achieving sustained, long-term operation at high current densities under future industrial conditions remains a formidable challenge (18-20).

In this work, we report a grafted superstructure of MOF@POM derived from the selfassembly of a metal-organic framework (MOF) and polyoxometalate (POM), followed by an electrochemical transformation into monolayer CoFe oxyhydroxides (CoFe-LDH) grafted onto POM. The transformation involves a twodimensional (2D) CoFe-MOF precursor undergoing phase transitions to form monolayer CoFe-LDH grafted on POM while also serving as a reservoir of predefined active metal sites (Co and Fe) under water oxidation conditions. The resulting catalysts exhibit substantial activity and stability in water electrolysis, achieving a low overpotential of 178 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. When incorporated into an anion exchange membrane water electrolyzer (AEMWE), the system delivers a current density of 3 A cm<sup>-2</sup> at an applied voltage of 1.78 V, meeting the US Department of Energy's (DOE's) 2025 target for 2035 AEM technologies (1.8 V at 3 A cm<sup>-2</sup>) (21). Furthermore, the AEMWE demonstrates stable operation for >5140 hours at a current density of 2 A cm<sup>-2</sup> under ambient conditions. In situ electrochemical investigations combined with computational studies reveal that interactions between metal atoms, including W, Ni, Co, and Fe, establish a rapid electron-transfer channel. This channel facilitates efficient electron transport from CoFe catalytic sites to electrodes, protecting the catalytic sites from dissolution. Additionally, the Ni interlayer functions as an elastic deformation interlayer, stabilizing the active metal (oxy)hydroxide phase. These synergistic effects contribute to substantial improvements in both the activity and durability of AEMWE systems.

# Synthesis and structural examination

The synthesis of MOF@POM involves a dualtemplate assembly process (fig. S1). First, a CoFe-MOF forms through the self-coordination of Fe<sup>3+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup> with 1,4-benzenedicarboxylic acid (11), chosen for its layered structure, which promotes axial growth and enhances the interaction and stability of POM-Ni-MOF stacking. This formation process is accompanied by the decomposition of symmetric PW9-Ni4 into a trilacunary Keggin anion,  $[PW_9O_{34}]^{9-}$   $(PW_9)$ (22-26). Subsequently, the CoFe-MOF reassembles with PW<sub>9</sub>, facilitated by the Ni-O bridge, to form the innovative MOF@POM superstructure (Fig. 1A). Ab initio molecular dynamics simulations corroborate this selfassembly process of MOF with POM, revealing a gradual decrease in surface energy, as evidenced by the reducing distance between the Ni atoms in POM and the O atoms in MOF during self-assembly (figs. S2 and S3). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images display a petal-like morphology for MOF@POM (Fig. 1B), which exhibits a more uniform and ordered arrangement compared with the pure MOF (fig. S4). Atomic force microscopy (AFM) measurements confirm a monolayer thickness of  $3.54 \pm 0.18$  nm for MOF@POM (Fig. 1C), in contrast to the pure MOF monolayer thickness of 1.73  $\pm$  0.17 nm, highlighting the successful grafting of POM (fig. S5). Furthermore, spherical aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy (TEM) reveals thin lamellar structures (fig. S6). High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images, coupled with selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns (Fig. 1D), highlight the crystalline facets within the MOF@POM, with a crystalline spacing of 0.63 nm, consistent with the pure MOF (fig. S7). X-ray diffraction (XRD) results corroborate this observation of the (200) and (001) facets for the MIL-53 MOF (fig. S8), confirming the presence of the MOF within the MOF@POM superstructure (27). Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy also validates the presence of characteristic absorption peaks of PW<sub>9</sub> within the MOF@POM superstructure (fig. S9) (22). Thermogravimetric analysis of MOF@POM and the pure MOF reinforce these findings. The presence of POM enhances the mass retention of the MOF (fig. S10). High-angle annular dark-field scanning

transmission electron microscopy analysis of MOF@POM, coupled with elemental mapping (fig. S11 and table S1), provides definitive evidence of the uniform distribution of Co, Fe, Ni, C, O, P, and W within the superstructure.

Full-range synchrotron pair distribution function (PDF) analysis provides a detailed view of the atomic structure of MOF@POM (fig. S12). Further validation is achieved by fitting the PDF data to a structural model based on Fig. 1A. This fit shows excellent agreement ( $R^2 \approx$ 0.88) with the experimental results, confirming the presence of the MOF@POM superstructure (Fig. 1E). Each peak in Fig. 1E corresponds to specific atom pairs within the model (table S2). For instance, peak 1 corresponds to the distance between the O-W and O-Ni atom pairs. The correlation of the O-W pair across multiple peaks (1 to 16) provides evidence for the long-range order of the MOF@POM superstructure. Partial-PDF (p-PDF) analysis further characterized the MOF@POM structure. A comparison of the p-PDF results with a structural model focused on the Ni-Fe interaction (fig. S13) reveals excellent agreement between the theoretical and experimental Ni-Fe distances. This alignment supports the hypothesis that the characteristic W-O peaks observed in the FTIR spectra originate from POM semiclusters. Moreover, this agreement between the p-PDF data and the structural model suggests a specific attachment motif for the POM moiety to the MOF. This attachment primarily occurs through the intermediary Ni sites. Accordingly, the crystal structure can be described as follows: The Ni atom acts as a bridge connecting the metal node layer of the MOF with the W-O layer of PW9. This linkage is further stabilized by Ni-O interactions between two Ni atoms, resulting in a robust superstructure substrate that anchors the POM clusters.

# Water oxidation performance

Cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements reveal the exceptional activity of MOF@POM for water oxidation. Considering the significant impact of the metal ratio of Fe and the proportion of POM on the catalytic performance (figs. S14 and S15) (28-30), the optimized MOF@POM demonstrates a very low overpotential of only 178 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Fig. 2A). This performance surpasses that of the pure MOF (203 mV) and commonly used CoFe-LDHs (250 mV) and NiFe-LDHs (220 mV). The low water oxidation current density observed for pure POM highlights the crucial role of the synergetic effect achieved through grafting in the MOF@POM superstructure (fig. S16). Analysis of the turnover frequency (TOF) calculated using the actual active site numbers obtained from the CV curves (fig. S17) indicates that the TOF of Co and Fe ( $TOF_{Co+Fe}$ ) in MOF@POM is 78 times

higher that of pure MOF at the overpotential of 200 mV (fig. S18). Consequently, the mass activity of MOF@POM is >7 times greater than that of pure MOF (fig. S19). The Tafel slopes for CoFe-LDHs and NiFe-LDHs are 42.9 and 45.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, at 1.50 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) (fig. S20), which align with the 46 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> reported for oxidized Ni, Co, and Fe electrodes in alkaline conditions (31). This indicates that the rate-determining step involves the formation of a superoxy (-OOH) intermediate. For MOF and MOF@POM, the Tafel slopes decrease to 37.0 and 27.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, which can be attributed to the in situ formation of single-layer LDHs (32) and POM grafting. The lowest Tafel slope observed for MOF@POM suggests a significant enhancement in catalytic OER activity (2, 33-35). Electronic conductivity is a critical factor for determining catalyst activity (7, 36, 37). Combined results of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy reveal that MOF@POM has the lowest charge-transfer resistance among the

tested samples (figs. S21 and S22). Two-probe resistivity measurements confirm that the electrical conductivity of MOF@POM is higher than that of pristine MOF (fig. S23). This indicates that POM grafting provides a more efficient electron-transfer pathway within the MOF, leading to a significant increase in the TOF of the Co and Fe sites. Moreover, under a threeelectrode system, MOF@POM demonstrates exceptional stability, showing negligible degradation for 1000 hours at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (fig. S24 and S25). This performance is quite competitive with previously reported catalysts for water oxidation (tables S3 and S4).

Furthermore, the AEMWE cell constructed with MOF@POM exhibits a significantly lower voltage requirement than the cell constructed from pure MOF. At 25°C, a current density of 1 A cm<sup>-2</sup> is achieved with a cell voltage of only 1.83 V for MOF@POM, whereas the pure MOF cell requires nearly 1.97 V (Fig. 2B and figs. S26 to S27). The results obtained from focused ion beam scanning electron microscopy demonstrate that the performance differences between the two are not attributable to the

Fig. 1. Structural characterization. (A) Mercury-visualized structure model of the MOF@POM superstructure. (B) SEM image of MOF@POM. (C) AFM image of MOF@POM. (D) Spherical aberration-corrected TEM image of MOF@POM. Inset shows the SAED pattern. (E) Full-range synchrotron PDF analysis for MOF@POM, with the corresponding Rietveld refinement and the calculated partial PDF patterns of the Ni-Fe distance.

2 of 7 Yue et al., Science 388, 430-436 (2025) 25 April 2025

contact interface between the catalyst and the current collector (fig. S28). Even under simulated real-world operation conditions (1 M KOH, 60° to 80°C), MOF@POM displays exceptional activity, achieving a current density of 2 A cm<sup>-2</sup> with a very efficient cell voltage of only 1.69 V at 80°C (corresponding to an energy consumption of 4.04 kWh Nm<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>). Increasing the cell voltage to 2.0 V enables a current density exceeding 5.5 A cm<sup>-2</sup> (at this point, the background current of pure Ni foam is only 0.23 A cm<sup>-2</sup>). By comparison, a mere 1.78 V is sufficient to achieve a current density of 3 A cm<sup>-2</sup>, surpassing the ambitious AEM future 2035 requirements (1.8 V at 3 A, mentioned in the DOE 2025 target) (Fig. 2B) (21).

A rigorous stability evaluation revealed the excellent durability of MOF@POM in AEMWE. The MOF@POM cell shows a decay rate of only 0.015 mV  $\rm h^{-1}$  after 2000 hours of operation at 1 A cm<sup>-2</sup>, meeting the DOE 2025 target (21). By contrast, the decay rate of the pure MOF cell reaches nearly 1 mV  $\rm h^{-1}$  within the first 300 hours at the same current density, after which it degrades further, exceeding 4 mV  $\rm h^{-1}$  (fig. S29). This highlights the significant role of the grafted POM in enhancing the catalytic sta-

bility of MOF@POM. Compared with the CoFe-LDH and NiFe-LDH catalysts synthesized using typical methods, the MOF@POM exhibits higher stability. At 25°C, MOF@POM maintains a current density of 2 A cm<sup>-2</sup> for 5140 hours with a minimal decay rate of 0.02 mV h<sup>-1</sup>. By contrast, these metal (oxy)hydroxides show a significant decay rate within 100 hours (Fig. 2C). This exceptional stability is maintained even at elevated temperatures (60°C). Moreover, MOF@POM exhibits commendable stability at higher current densities (3, 5, and 10 A cm<sup>-2</sup>) for extended durations (3000, 500, and 200 hours, respectively), with minimal performance fluctuations, suggesting potential adaptability to fluctuating green electricity (figs. S30 to S32). Analysis of the decay rates across the current density range of 1 to 10 A cm<sup>-2</sup> reveals a slow linear (y = 0.0067 + 0.0075x), with a coefficient of determination  $R^2 \approx 0.96$ ) decay for MOF@POM at lower current densities (up to 5 A cm<sup>-2</sup>). However, the decay rate transitions to exponential  $(y = 0.111e^{0.3067x})$ , with a coefficient of determination  $R^2 \approx 0.99$ ) at higher current densities (10 A cm<sup>-2</sup>) (fig. S33). This behavior contrasts with the rapid linear decay observed for CoFe/NiFe-LDHs at 2 A cm<sup>-2</sup>

(Fig. 2C) and the exponential decay of the pure MOF at  $1~{\rm A~cm^{-2}}$  (fig. S29). These findings suggest that a structurally stable catalyst exhibits a linear decay profile within a specific current density range, whereas unstable structures experience exponential decay.

The exceptional stability of MOF@POM during AEMWE operation is evidenced by its superior preservation of active sites. To gain insight into the behavior of active metal sites during AEMWE operation, the S number, which reflects the stability of active sites based on metal dissolution in the electrolyte, was calculated (table S5) (38). MOF@POM exhibits the highest S number, surpassing those of CoFe-LDHs, NiFe-LDHs, and even the MOF by a significant margin (fig. S34), which indicates that MOF@POM loses fewer active sites during water oxidation. The activity stability factor, which correlates the rate of metal dissolution with the O<sub>2</sub> production rate, was also used (figs. S34 and S35) (14, 39). The activity stability factor of MOF@POM is nearly an order of magnitude greater than that of the pure MOF, CoFe-LDHs, and NiFe-LDHs. This finding experimentally supports the exceptional stability of the POMgrafted CoFe (oxy)hydroxide (table S6).

Fig. 2. Electrochemical measurements. (A) CV curves of MOF, MOF@POM, and the reference samples. (B) Polarization curves of the AEMWE cell using MOF@POM as the anode (AEM: Sustainion X37-50 Grade T. cathode: 20% Pt/C). (C) Longterm durability of the AEMWE cell at 2 A cm<sup>-2</sup> (AEM: Sustainion X37-50 Grade T, cathode: 20% Pt/C, electrolyte: 1 M KOH). At the positions indicated by the arrows, the fresh electrolyte was replaced in the electrolyzer. (D) Relationship between current and time during continuous long-term durability tests in AEMWE using different electrocatalysts (the references are given in table S7). (E) Economic analysis of the operational costs of different catalysts and the leveled cost of hydrogen production.

Yue et al., Science 388, 430–436 (2025) 25 April 2025 3 of 7

# **Techno-economic analysis**

The performance merits of MOF@POM were further evaluated by considering both the activity and durability of the AEMWE. Compared with existing electrocatalysts, MOF@POM demonstrates superior stability and efficiency across a range of current densities (Fig. 2D, figs. S36 and S37, and table S7). A preliminary technoeconomic analysis (TEA) was conducted to explore the economic and sustainability benefits of MOF@POM-based AEMWE systems (Fig. 2E and supplementary note). This analysis considers factors such as annual operating expenditure and the levelized cost of hydrogen (LCOH). The TEA calculations demonstrate that MOF@POM results in the lowest annual operating expenditure and highest profitability compared with the CoFe-LDHs and NiFe-LDHs catalysts, showing negative revenue projections. Considering a 10-year lifetime for 100 m<sup>2</sup> AEMWEs operating at 2 A cm<sup>-2</sup>, MOF@POM enables green hydrogen production at a competitive LCOH of US\$2.324 per kg H<sub>2</sub>, which is lower than the European Commission's 2030 target (<\$2.5 per kg H<sub>2</sub>). Compared with MOF@POM, the TEA results for the CoFe-LDHs and NiFe-LDHs systems yield significantly higher LCOHs. Furthermore, an AEM electrolyzer in the laboratory assembled with a MOF@POM anode  $(5 \times 5 \text{ cm}^2)$  can achieve a current of 70 A (2.8 A cm<sup>-2</sup>) at a voltage of 1.98 V at 25°C, demonstrating the scalability of the MOF@POM catalyst for large-scale applications (fig. S38).

# Investigation of structural evolution

We systematically investigated the structural transformation of MOF@POM during the water oxidation process. After complete activation of MOF@POM during water oxidation, MOF@POM (MOF@POM-act) maintains its excellent structural integrity, whereas the pure MOF (MOFact) undergoes significant degradation and structural collapse (fig. S39). HRTEM images reveal subtle changes in the lattice stripes, consistent with the formation of CoFe-related metal (oxy)hydroxide, the catalytically active phase (fig. S40). XRD characterization corroborates these observations, showing that the MOF@POM structure transitions from its initial state to a mixed state of MOF and hydroxide, ultimately forming the desired CoFe-related metal (oxy)hydroxides (Fig. 3A and fig. S41) (40). Furthermore, AFM measurements confirm a significant reduction in the lamellar thickness of MOF@POM from 3.54 ± 0.18 to  $1.47 \pm 0.20$  nm upon ligand detachment (fig. S42). In situ Raman spectroscopy provides realtime insights into surface structure changes (Fig. 3B and fig. S43). As the applied potential increases, characteristic Raman peaks associated with organic components at 1611, 1422, 633, and 376 cm<sup>-1</sup> diminish. At a potential of 1.53 V versus RHE, these peaks nearly disap-

pear, replaced by new peaks (540 to 465 cm<sup>-1</sup>), indicating the formation of hydroxyl oxide species (41). This transformation occurs only upon an applied potential, underscoring its dependence on water oxidation (fig. S44). Unlike the pure MOF, the surface state of MOF@POM transitions to metal (oxy)hydroxide only after ~5 min at a voltage of 1.63 V versus RHE (Fig. 3B). This behavior aligns well with the results from in situ FTIR spectroscopy (fig. S45). This phenomenon was further corroborated by x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy of MOF-act and MOF@POM-act after the stability test (figs. S46 and S47). The emergence of a new peak in the O 1s spectrum corresponding to M-OH and an increase in the valence state for Co and Fe confirms the in situ conversion of MOF@POM to a metal (oxy)hydroxide-grafted POM catalyst during water oxidation.

The MOF@POM-act superstructure was further validated through PDF analysis and detailed investigations of its atomic and periodic structural relationships. The detected PDF of MOF@POM-act demonstrates excellent alignment with the model presented in Fig. 3C (fig. S48). The preservation of PW<sub>9</sub> clusters in the MOF@POM-act superstructure was further confirmed through the p-PDF of Ni-Fe (fig. S49A). Detailed analysis of Ni-Ni interlayer atomic distances reveals two primary contributions from bond pairs (Fig. 3C): one originating from a single PW9 cell (marked in pink) and another from interactions between two PW<sub>o</sub> cells (marked in green). The peaks before 9 Å, such as Ni<sub>1</sub>-Ni<sub>2</sub>, correspond to Ni sites within a single PW9, whereas a distinct contribution at 9.12 Å indicates interactions between multiple POMs. The most pronounced inter-POM atomic contribution appears at 13 Å, resulting from bond pairs across multiple POMs located at the same site. Analogous peak positions are identified at larger distances, such as the 13 Å extension to the next cell at 26 Å. A similar pattern emerges in the p-PDF of Ni-W (fig. S49B), with the distance relationships mirroring the periodic structure. These findings collectively validate that the MOF@POM-act superstructure aligns well with the monocrystalline cell.

# Catalytic behavior analysis

The transformation of MOF@POM during water oxidation reveals distinct roles of Co, Fe, and Ni. The x-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectrum (Fig. 3D and fig. S50) shows a rapid increase in the valence states of the Co and Fe sites as the applied potential increases (fig. S51). Extended x-ray absorption fine structure analysis (Fig. 3D and fig. S52) indicates that the coordination environments of Co and Fe transition from M-O (where M = Co or Fe) to M-OH and ultimately to M-OOH. This conclusion is supported by the observation that the M-O bond length in the MOF exceeds 2 Å, whereas it is ~1.9 Å in M-OOH (42). This change signifies the formation of oxyhydroxide species and confirms that Co and Fe sites on the surface of the MOF@POM catalyst transform into the genuine active phase M-OOH, which is widely recognized as the true active phase for most alkaline water oxidation catalysts (42). By contrast, the behavior of Ni atoms, which act as the intermediate layer in the superstructure, differs significantly during this process (Fig. 3D and fig. S52). Although Ni initially exhibits a valence increase upon potential application, this change is less pronounced. Furthermore, the Ni K-edge shifts back toward its initial position after catalyst reconstruction, indicating that the Ni sites do not transition into an irreversible Ni-OOH state, which is different from the in situ XAS data previously reported for Ni as the active site (43-45). A similar phenomenon is observed for the W sites (Fig. 3D). The final Ni-O coordination layer in the MOF@POM-act closely resembles that in the freshly prepared MOF@POM material. These observations confirm that Ni does not serve as a catalytic active site during the water oxidation process; on the contrary, it undergoes elastic deformation during the structural transformation process. The changes in oxidation states of Ni and W observed during the water oxidation process indicate their involvement in electron transfer from CoFe sites to the electrode. Ni sites act as intermediate connectors in the upper structure, stabilizing the active phase, whereas POM primarily serves as an electron-transfer carrier (46, 47), enhancing conductivity during the water oxidation process.

To provide a comprehensive understanding of the stable mechanism of metal active sites during the water oxidation process, the bonding state between adjacent metals and oxygen in the layer was analyzed. As shown in fig. S53, MOF@POM-act and MOF-act materials exhibit shorter M-M and M-O bond lengths. This result stems from the self-optimization of the catalysts during structural transformation, suggesting that metal (oxy)hydroxide has a more stable coordination environment than the initial MOF materials. After the transformation, the bond lengths of M-M and M-O remain relatively stable despite increases in applied potential. This observation is consistent with the minimal K-edge shifts detected at various voltages, indicating that the catalyst no longer undergoes significant structural changes after the reconfiguration (figs. S54 and S55). The Ni sites maintain consistent coordination numbers for M-O and M-O-M throughout this process (Fig. 3E). In particular, after the cessation of the applied potential, the coordination numbers of both M-O and M-O-M of the Ni sites nearly return to their initial state. These in situ XAS observations for Ni over the MOF@POM catalyst

4 of 7 Yue et al., Science 388, 430-436 (2025) 25 April 2025

Fig. 3. Structural evolution. (A) XRD comparison of MOF@POM in different states during the water oxidation. (B) In situ Raman spectra of MOF@POM during the water oxidation process. (C) p-PDF fitting of Ni-Ni in MOF@POM-act. (D) XANES spectra of Co, Fe, Ni, and W at different potentials of MOF@POM. (E) Variation in the bond lengths and coordination numbers of the Co (Fe, Ni)-O and Co (Fe, Ni)-O-M coordination shells obtained from the XAS absorption spectra of MOF@POM during water oxidation.

reveal that the Ni sites serve as elastic deformation modulators, preserving a stable coordination environment for the Co and Fe sites during structural transformation, as well as the water oxidation process. This role ensures sustained catalytic activity.

# Theoretical calculation of catalytic mechanism

We used density functional theory to determine the effect of POM grafting on the water oxidation performance of the MOF@POM-act superstructure, especially for long-term water oxidation operation. In accordance with our p-PDF fitting of the MOF@POM-act structure and the evolved active species for the water oxidation, we constructed and modeled single-

layer Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH grafted onto POM (CCDC-2421729) (Fig. 4A). A thermodynamic dissolution diagram was calculated to predict the stable phase of single-layer Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH and POM/ Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH relative to dissolutive phases under high oxidative potential and pH conditions (figs. S56 to S58) (48). Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH on POM is more stable than bare Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH under water oxidation conditions (pH = 14). In addition, the electrochemical phase diagram (at pH = 14) confirms the enhanced stability of POM/Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH over Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH (Fig. 4B and figs. S59). As the potential increases, Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH is a thermodynamically stable phase up to 1.48 V versus RHE (Fig. 4C). Beyond this potential, phases that tend to dissolve become thermodynamically favored. Through the grafting of POM, Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH can be stabilized at potentials up to 1.80 V versus RHE. Considering the dissolution energy barrier reported in the literature ( $G_a = \sim 0.4 \text{ eV}$ ) (fig. S60), we calculated that the degradation time can be expressed as a function of the reaction energy and barrier using the Arrhenius equation (Fig. 4C). The Fe and Co sites in traditional Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH can quickly dissolve into the electrolyte at 2.0 V versus RHE. This rapid dissolution leads to low stability, often limiting the operational life of these materials to significantly less than 2000 hours. By contrast, at the same potential, introducing POM substantially suppresses the dissolution of Fe and Co sites,

**Fig. 4. Theoretical investigations.** (**A**) Side view of POM-supported POM/Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH. The white, red, pink, yellow, green, blue, and purple spheres represent H, O, P, Fe, Co, Ni, and W atoms, respectively. (**B**) Formation energies of the  $Co_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}OOH$ , POM/Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH, and dissolved ( $FeO_4^{2^-} + CoOH^{2^+}$ ) phases expressed as a function of potential. The dotted line shows that the dissolution barrier is greater than the reaction energy. (**C**) Stability (10% sites/dissolution rate) is a function of the working potential and dissolution barrier. (**D**) Charge state of the Fe and Co sites on  $Co_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}OOH$  and POM/Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH. (**E**) Free energy profile of the water oxidation on  $Co_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}OOH$  and POM/Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH. The arrow and number indicate the corresponding energy change in the rate-determining step (RDS).

allowing  $\mathrm{Co_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}OOH}$  to work for up to ~5000 hours, notably improving the stability of the transition metal compounds. This theoretical prediction is in good agreement with the active decay pattern observed in the experimental data (Fig. 2C). Moreover, the decay of the catalyst activity exhibits linear behavior below 2.0 V, as shown in Fig. 4C. This theoretical prediction is in good agreement with the active decay pattern collected from experimental data (Fig. 2C and fig. S33), providing an insightful methodology for the screening of highly active and stable catalysts.

In addition, we calculated the electronic structure to study the mechanism of long-term stability. According to the calculated charge difference density, electron transfers from the Ni atom to the Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH reduce the charge state of the Fe and Co sites for catalyzing the water oxidation (Fig. 4D and fig. S61). This effectively prevents Fe and Co sites from the highcharge state to overoxidation during the water oxidation process, thereby mitigating their dissolution. Conversely, a high-water oxidation overpotential (corresponding to low activity) forces the Fe and Co sites to catalyze the water oxidation at relatively high potentials, which is also a reason for overoxidation. Diminishing the impact of potential on the dissolution of Fe and Co atoms is a way to improve stability.

We analyzed the water oxidation activity of Coo5Feo5OOH with and without POM by calculating the free energy change of the water oxidation (Fig. 4E). The highest energy change of 2.37 eV occurs during the \*OOH formation step on Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH, indicating a greater energy requirement for \*OOH formation compared with other intermediates (35). This is consistent with the tested Tafel slopes, suggesting that \*OOH formation is the rate-determining step, with an associated overpotential of 1.14 V. By contrast, POM/ Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH displays a lower overpotential of 0.64 V for the same rate-determining step. This suggests that Fe and Co sites in POM/ Coo 5Feo 5OOH facilitate water oxidation at lower potentials, ensuring stable water oxidation operation. These theoretical findings support the durability of POM-stabilized Co<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>OOH during long-term water oxidation operation.

# **Conclusions**

In summary, we report a robust superstructure by constructing a POM-coordinated MOF through targeted grafting, aiming to solve the dissolution and corrosion issue of the crucial metal (oxy)hydroxide active sites responsible for alkaline water oxidation. We have shown the high stability and activity of this catalyst

in the AEMWEs. Implementing it in industry that can contribute to a sustainable green hydrogen production will critically rely on the development of membrane fabrication, truly affordable electricity, and the maturity of the hydrogen energy industry chain.

### REFERENCES AND NOTES

- 1. X. Wang et al., Nature 611, 702-708 (2022).
- 2. L. Chong et al., Science 380, 609-616 (2023).
- 3. W. Shi et al., Science **387**, 791–796 (2025). 4. C. Baeumer et al., Nat. Mater. **20**, 674–682 (2021).
- X. Zheng et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 118, e2101817118 (2021).
- 6. K. Yue et al., Energy Environ. Sci. 14, 6546–6553 (2021).
- 7. E. Fabbri et al., Nat. Mater. 16, 925-931 (2017).
- B. Zhang et al., Science 352, 333-337 (2016).
- . L. Magnier et al., Nat. Mater. 23, 252-261 (2024)
- 10. A. Bergmann et al., Nat. Catal. 1, 711–719 (2018).
- 11. S. Zhao et al., Nat. Energy 1, 16184 (2016).
- 12. S. Yuan et al., Nat. Mater. 21, 673-680 (2022)
- 13. M. S. Burke et al., J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 6, 3737-3742 (2015)
- 14. D. Y. Chung et al., Nat. Energy 5, 222-230 (2020).
- 15. H. Liu et al., Joule 7, 558–573 (2023)
- 16. F. M. Li et al., Adv. Mater. 34, e2200840 (2022).
- 17. C. Kuai et al., Nat. Catal. 3, 743–753 (2020)
- 18. Z. Li et al., Joule 8, 2920-2937 (2024)
- S. Z. Oener, A. Bergmann, B. R. Cuenya, Nat. Synth. 2, 817–827 (2023).
- F.-Y. Chen, Z.-Y. Wu, Z. Adler, H. Wang, Joule 5, 1704–1731 (2021).
  National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), "U.S. Department of Energy Hydrogen Program: 2022 Annual Merit Review and Peer Evaluation Meeting; June 7-8 2022" (NREL,
- 2023); https://www.osti.gov/biblio/1990033 22. O. Yin et al., Science **328**, 342–345 (2010).
- I. A. Weinstock, R. E. Schreiber, R. Neumann, *Chem. Rev.* 118, 2680–2717 (2018).
- 24. L. Vilà-Nadal. L. Cronin. *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2**. 17054 (2017).

- 25. G. Paille et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 140, 3613–3618 (2018).
- 26. Y. Shimoyama, N. Ogiwara, Z. Weng, S. Uchida, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 144, 2980–2986 (2022).
- 27. D. Salionov et al., Nat. Commun. 13, 3762 (2022).
- 28. M. B. Stevens, C. D. M. Trang, L. J. Enman, J. Deng, S. W. Boettcher, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 139, 11361–11364 (2017).
- 29. L. Trotochaud, S. L. Young, J. K. Ranney, S. W. Boettcher, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 136, 6744–6753 (2014).
- 30. Y. Ou et al., Nat. Commun. 14, 7688 (2023).
- 31. M. E. G. Lyons, M. P. Brandon, J. Electroanal. Chem. 641, 119–130 (2010).
- 32. F. Song, X. Hu, Nat. Commun. 5, 4477 (2014).
- 33. D. Zhou et al., Chem. Soc. Rev. 50, 8790–8817 (2021).
- 34. W. H. Lee et al., Nat. Commun. 13, 605 (2022).
- 35. H. N. Nong et al., Nature 587, 408–413 (2020).
- 36. M. B. Stevens et al., Nano Res. 12, 2288–2295 (2019).
- 37. R. A. Krivina et al., Adv. Mater. 34, e2203033 (2022).
- 38. S. Geiger et al., Nat. Catal. 1, 508–515 (2018).
- 39. A. Li et al., Nat. Catal. 5, 109–118 (2022).
- 40. S.-P. Zeng et al., Nat. Commun. 14, 1811 (2023).
- 41. M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 135, 12329–12337 (2013).
- 42. S. Zhao et al., Nat. Energy 5, 881–890 (2020).
- 43. P. Acharya et al., J. Phys. Chem. C 127, 11891–11901 (2023).
- 44. D. Wang et al., J. Phys. Chem. C 119, 19573–19583 (2015).
- 45. D. F. Abbott et al., J. Mater. Chem. A 6, 24534–24549 (2018).
- 46. Y.-S. Xia et al., Nat. Synth. 3, 406–418 (2024).
- 47. I. A. Weinstock, Chem. Rev. 98, 113–170 (1998).

- 48. R. R. Rao et al., Nat. Catal. 3, 516–525 (2020).
- 49. K. Yue et al., Polyoxometalated metal-organic framework superstructure for stable water oxidation, Dryad (2025); <https://doi.org/2010.5061/dryad.hqbzkh2021t2029>.

### ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank the staff of the BL20U1/BL17B/BL01B beamline of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) and the staff of the 1W2B beamline of the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for assistance during data collection; the East China Normal University Multifunctional Platform for Innovation (004) for the TEM measurements; and Y. Chen for help with the XAFS measurements. All density functional theory calculations were performed at the New Zealand eScience Infrastructure (NeSI) highperformance computing facilities. Funding: This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grants 22325901 and 22279159), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (grants 2021YFA1600800 and 2021YFA1501000), the Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai (grant 22ZR1471900), the Research Plan of International Collaboration Fund for Creative Research Teams (ICFCRT) of NSFC (grant W2441008), and the Shanghai Rising-Star Program (grant 22QA1410300). The computational study was supported by the Marsden Fund Council from Government Funding (grant 21-UOA-237) and a Catalyst: Seeding General Grant (22-UOA-031- CGS) managed by Royal Society Te Apārangi. Author contributions: Y.Y. and B.Y.X. conceived and supervised the project. K.Y., Y.Y., and B.Y.X. synthesized and characterized the materials and analyzed

the data. Z.W. and B.Y.X. supervised R.L. and M.G. during the theoretical calculations. J.Z. and K.Y. performed the PDF measurements. K.Y., Y.Y., B.Y.X., F.S., H.D., and B.M. performed the XAFS measurements. C.X., R.Q., and D.Z. performed the TEM measurements. Y.D. assisted K.Y. and Y.Y. with the AEMWE tests. F.H. suggested the catalytic mechanism. Y.Y., K.Y., R.L., and B.Y.X. wrote and revised the manuscript. All authors have read the manuscript and agree with its content. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Data and materials availability: Pair distribution function data and electrochemical data are available at Dryad (49). License information: Copyright © 2025 the authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original US government works. [https://www.science.org/about/science](https://www.science.org/about/science-licenses-journal-article-reuse)[licenses-journal-article-reuse](https://www.science.org/about/science-licenses-journal-article-reuse)

### SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS

[science.org/doi/10.1126/science.ads1466](https://science.org/doi/10.1126/science.ads1466) Materials and Methods Supplementary Text Figs. S1 to S66 Tables S1 to S21 References (50–129)

Submitted 31 July 2024; resubmitted 3 December 2024 Accepted 12 March 2025 10.1126/science.ads1466

Yue et al., Science 388, 430–436 (2025) 25 April 2025 7 of 7