---
source: Zhang 等 - 2019 - Hydrated‐Metal‐Halide‐Based Deep‐Eutectic‐Solvent‐Mediated NiFe Layered Double Hydroxide An Excelle.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 69.107s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:47:26.489016Z
---

DOI Full Paper : 10.1002/asia.201900742

# Hydrated-Metal-Halide-Based Deep-Eutectic-Solvent-Mediated NiFe Layered Double Hydroxide: An Excellent Electrocatalyst for Urea Electrolysis and Water Splitting

Chenyun Zhang, Tingting Chen, Hong Zhang, [Zhonghao](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0699-300X) Li,\* and Jingcheng Hao [a]

Abstract: The liquid structures of deep eutectic solvents (DESs) based on hydrated metal halides and their application as electrolytes have been widely studied. However, little attention has been paid to the direct use of this type of DES in the preparation of micro-/nanomaterials. Herein, an FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea DES was used in the one-step synthesis of NiFe-LDH\_D with a nanoflower morphology. In alkaline media, this catalyst promoted excellent electrocatalytic activity for the oxidation of urea at potential of 1.32 V (vs. RHE) and for the oxygen-evolution reaction at a potential of 1.39 V to achieve a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> . These results were superior to the results with NiFe-LDH/NF that was obtained from an aqueous solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> , as well as most of the previously reported transition-metal catalysts. Furthermore, NiFe-LDH\_D/NF could be readily implemented as both a cathode and an anode for the electrolysis of urea and water splitting. The use of hydrated-metal-halide-based DESs for the preparation of LDH catalysts through a dippingredox strategy should both enrich the research of DESs and offer guidance for the rational surface engineering of catalysts for the electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting with high performance.

# 1. Introduction

The global energy crises and environmental issues have prompted extensive study into the use of hydrogen as an alternative sustainable energy source. Currently, the most widely accepted technology for hydrogen production is electrochemical water splitting. [1] However, overall water splitting requires a high cell voltage (1.23 V), owing to the sluggish oxygen-evolution reaction (OER). In recent years, nonflammable and nontoxic urea, as a more readily oxidizable molecule than water, has been considered as a promising alternative, because its electrolysis requires a much lower voltage (0.37 V; CO(NH<sup>2</sup> )2+H2O=N2+3H2+CO<sup>2</sup> ) under standard conditions.[2] More importantly, the electrolysis of urea offers simultaneous hydrogen production and the purification of urea-rich wastewater. [3] However, the electrolysis of urea also suffers from an intrinsic kinetic bottleneck, owing to a six-electron-transfer process in the anodic urea-oxidation reaction (UOR). Therefore, the development of high-performance electrocatalysts is key to efficiently achieving this reaction. In particular, the development of nonprecious-metal catalysts is of great significance, considering their economic viability and large-scale use.[4]

[a] Dr. C. Zhang, T. Chen, H. Zhang, Prof. Dr. Z. Li, Prof. Dr. J. Hao Key Laboratory of Colloid and Interface Chemistry Ministry of Education Shandong University No. 27, Shanda Nanlu Jinan 250100 (P. R. China) E-mail: zhonghaoli@sdu.edu.cn

Supporting information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under: <https://doi.org/10.1002/asia.201900742>.

Bimetallic nickel–iron layered double hydroxide (NiFe-LDH) has been widely used as an electrochemical catalyst for the OER, and even for overall water splitting, owing to its promising efficiency and high stability.[5] Furthermore, since the development of urea electrolysis, NiFe-LDH-based catalysts have also been tested in the UOR.[5d,6] The composition and electronic structure of NiFe-LDH have been regulated to try to improve its catalytic performance. In particular, decoration of the NiFe-LDH precursor on nickel nanoparticles or its conversion into Fe-Ni3S<sup>2</sup> could lead to advanced electrocatalytic activity for the electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting. LDHs can be synthesized by using a range of synthetic methods. Traditional approaches include electrodeposition[7] and hydrothermal reactions.[5b] Recently, a dipping-based synthetic strategy for NiFe-LDH was reported, in which immersing iron foam into a Ni 2+ solution caused the NiFe-LDH catalyst to grow directly on the surface of the substrate.[5c] This method was not only facile, but also resulted in superior interfacial contact, which decreased the transmission barrier. The soaking solution, typically aqueous solutions, affects the structure and properties of the obtained catalyst. However, the use of deep eutectic solvents (DESs) as the soaking media has not been reported.

DESs are formed from the mixing of two or even three cheap, nontoxic, and biodegradable components. Strong hydrogen-bonding interactions between hydrogen-bond donors and hydrogen-bond acceptors drives DESs to adopt a liquid state.[8] DESs have been demonstrated to be a promising medium for the synthesis of micro-/nanostructured materials,[9] and can regulate the morphologies and structures of the materials to improve performance. For example, MgAl-LDH [10] and CoFe-LDH[11] were prepared in a choline-chloride/urea DES. However, there have been no reports on the synthesis of NiFe-LDH in a DES, as a common and effective catalyst in energy

Full Paper

and environmental applications. Hydrated-metal-halide-based DESs themselves contain metal-ion species. The liquid structure of FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea, as a low cost and benign DES, and its application as "greener" electrolyte have been studied.[12] A distinguishing characteristic of its liquid structure is the formation of coordinate interactions between the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> centers and oxygen donor ligands (urea or water), in addition to the hydrogen-bonding interactions present in the DES.[12] However, little attention has been paid to the direct use of this self-contained metal-ion species DES as a medium as well as an iron source for the synthesis of iron-based nanostructures. This type of DES is expected to achieve the in situ surface regulation of the catalyst, which would affect the properties of the micro-/nanomaterials.

Herein, a hydrated-metal-halide-based DES was used to prepare a NiFe-LDH electrocatalyst for the electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting, in which it played three roles: 1) as a medium, 2) an oxidant, and 3) an Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ion source. Dipping Ni foam (NF) into the DES for 30 s at 608C led to the one-step formation of NiFe-LDH/NF through a redox reaction. The DESmediated NiFe-LDH/NF exhibited efficient electrocatalytic activity for the UOR and OER in alkaline media. Its performance was not only superior to NiFe-LDH/NF that was obtained from an aqueous solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> , but it also surpassed most of the previously reported transition-metal-based UOR and OER catalysts. Furthermore, a NiFe-LDH\_D/NF kNiFe-LDH\_D/NF pair could also be implemented very well in the electrolysis of urea and water splitting. Combined with the dipping-redox strategy, the FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea DES, which comprised a self-contained metal-ion species, was applied to the preparation of LDH nanomaterials for the first time. We expect that these results will expand DES research whilst providing a rational surfaceengineering strategy for new electrocatalysts.

## 2. Results and Discussion

The FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea DES (2:1 molar ratio) was synthesized from the reaction between FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O and urea according to a literature procedure (Scheme 1).[12] Soaking the Ni foam in the DES induced a series of reactions: 1) the hydrolysis of urea; 2) a redox reaction between Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and the Ni foam; and 3) the formation of NiFe-LDH nanoflowers. Urea can be hydrolyzed into NH<sup>4</sup> + and OH@ by reacting it with the water content in hy-

Scheme 1. Schematic representation of the synthesis of NiFe-LDH\_D on the surface of a Ni foam.

drated FeCl<sup>3</sup> . When Ni foam, as sacrificial template and substrate, is immersed in the DES, it is oxidized into Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> by the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ions in the DES. Then, the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> , Fe 3+ , and OH@ groups would construct the NiFe-LDH nanostructures in situ on the Ni foam, with double-sided growth. The color of the Ni foam changed from silvery gray to dark yellow during the reaction. This dipping-redox strategy follows the "green" chemistry concept. Firstly, DES is a biodegradable and environmentally friendly solvent. Furthermore, DES also simultaneously serves as an oxidant, as well as an Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ion source, thereby offering good atom economy. Secondly, compared with the traditional hydrothermal synthesis of NiFe-LDH, which requires high temperatures for a long time,[6,13] this dipping-redox strategy is exceptionally simple, fast, reproducible, and energy-saving.

First, we characterized the Ni foam by using powder X-ray diffraction (XRD). The XRD pattern exhibited three strong diffraction peaks at 2q=76.30, 51.86, and 44.468 (see the Supporting Information, Figure S1). These peaks corresponded to the (220), (200), and (111) planes of nickel (JCPDS no. 04–0850), respectively. Such strong XRD peaks for the Ni foam skeleton made the XRD diffraction pattern of the product too weak to be observable. Therefore, the dipped Ni foam was sonicated to strip off the LDH powder from its surface. The XRD pattern of the powder exhibited main diffraction peaks at 2q=11.11, 22.26, 33.32, and 61.278, respectively (Figure 1 a), which were indexed to the typical diffraction peaks for the (003), (006), (009), and (110) crystal faces of NiFe-LDH, respectively, thereby indicating the formation of NiFe-LDH in the DES (denoted as NiFe-LDH\_D).

FTIR spectroscopy also confirmed the composition of the asprepared product. As shown in Figure 1 b, the peak at 675.61 cm@<sup>1</sup> corresponded to the M@O vibration in the LDH.[14] In addition, the organic components could also be observed in the FTIR spectra. The broad band at about 3398.80 cm@<sup>1</sup> was ascribed to N@H or O@H stretching vibrations, which might originate from NiFe-LDH\_D with absorbed urea and water. The stretching peaks at 1629.34 and 1472.72 cm@<sup>1</sup> were consistent with the characteristics of C=O and C@N stretching bands, respectively, thus indicating the existence of urea in NiFe-LDH\_D. Compared with the FTIR spectra of urea alone (C=O appeared at 1685.97 cm@<sup>1</sup> ; see the Supporting Information, Figure S2), the C=O stretching vibration in NiFe-LDH\_D was significantly shifted to lower frequency, by about 57 cm@<sup>1</sup> , thus indicating that the oxygen atom in the C=O group was coordinated to the metal ion, consistent with literature reports.[15] This result showed that urea molecules had combined in situ on the surface of NiFe-LDH\_D, through interactions with Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ions. Therefore, the use of DES as a soaking solution was able to realize the in situ surface regulation of LDH. Thus, the combination of urea with LDH could tailor the electronic structure of the metal sites, thereby inducing advanced electrocatalytic activity. [16] This work will allow for rational surface engineering for the preparation of new electrocatalysts.

XPS was also performed to study the states of nickel and iron elements in these materials. The peak at 873.63 eV (with a satellite peak at 879.15 eV) was ascribed to the binding energy of Ni 2p1/2, whilst the peak that was centered at 855.71 eV

Figure 1. a) XRD pattern and b) FTIR spectra of NiFe-LDH\_D; c) Ni 2p and d) Fe 2p XPS spectra of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF.

(with a satellite peak at 861.65 eV) was consistent with Ni 2p3/2 (Figure 1 c). Furthermore, the peaks that were centered at 726.05 and 713.17 eV were assigned to Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p1/2 and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p3/2, respectively (Figure 1d). The binding energies of the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species were consistent with those of LDH, further indicating that NiFe-LDH had been formed.

TEM and SEM were used to determine the morphology of NiFe-LDH\_D. TEM analysis revealed the typical nanosheet structure of LDH (Figure 2 a–c), whilst SEM analysis revealed that NiFe-LDH\_D was composed of a 3D flowerlike architecture, in which each nanoflower consisted of smooth nanosheets (Figure 2 d). Furthermore, SEM analysis of NiFe-LDH\_D/ NF indicated that the distribution of NiFe-LDH\_D on the Ni foam was uniform and ordered (Figure 2 e,f). The nanoflower morphology maximized the electrochemically active surface area to increase the number of active sites, thereby promoting mass transfer of the electrolyte and diffusion of the gas products. EDX elemental mapping indicated that O, Fe, and Ni elements were all evenly distributed throughout the selected area (Figure 2 g). The molar ratio of Ni/Fe in NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was 11.55:1 (see the Supporting Information, Figure S3). Such a high ratio was presumably affected by the Ni foam skeleton. Therefore, to exclude the influence of the Ni foam on the measurements, we recorded the EDX spectrum of the powder that had been stripped off the surface of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF (see the Supporting Information, Figure S4). The powder exhibited a Ni/Fe ratio (atom%) of 1.36:1, which was likely the actual ratio in NiFe-LDH\_D, without the interference of the Ni foam.

To comprehensively explore the influence of DES on the morphology and properties of NiFe-LDH, we replaced FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea DES with an aqueous solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> and characterized the as-obtained product by using XRD (see the Supporting Information, Figure S5). As with the product that was formed in the DES, the diffraction peaks for Ni masked those of the product. After stripping the product off the Ni foam, it was also confirmed to be NiFe-LDH (denoted as NiFe-LDH\_W). We speculated that the OH@ moieties were derived

Figure 2. a–c) TEM and d) SEM images of NiFe-LDH\_D; e) low- and f) highmagnification SEM images of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF; g) EDX mapping of NiFe-LDH\_D.

Full Paper

from the ionization of water. Although the amount of OH@ was very small in the ionization balance, the consumption of OH@ would lead to the ionization balance of water to move to the right, thereby eventually resulting in the formation of NiFe-LDH\_W. FTIR analysis of NiFe-LDH\_W was also performed and the broad band at 3337.89 cm@<sup>1</sup> was attributed to an O@H stretching vibration, whilst the band at 1623.08 cm@<sup>1</sup> was ascribed to the bending vibration of water molecules (see the Supporting Information, Figure S6).[17] The peak at 632.63 cm@<sup>1</sup> corresponded to the M@O vibration in LDH.[14] In addition, NiFe-LDH\_W/NF also exhibited a nanoflower morphology, as characterized by using TEM and SEM (see the Supporting Information, Figure S7). However, the nanoflowers were irregular compared with NiFe-LDH\_D/NF.

On comparing NiFe-LDH\_D/NF with NiFe-LDH\_W/NF, we found that the two catalysts differed in several aspects, in addition to their morphological uniformity.

Firstly, the mass loadings of the two catalysts were different, as confirmed by three pieces of evidence. 1) The intensity of the Ni peaks in the XRD pattern of NiFe-LDH\_W/NF was much stronger than that of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF, thus indicating that more Ni was exposed in NiFe-LDH\_W/NF (see the Supporting Information, Figure S5a). 2) Low-magnification SEM images of the catalysts showed that the density of NiFe-LDH\_D on the Ni foam was higher than that of NiFe-LDH\_W, which indicated that NiFe-LDH\_D had a higher mass loading than NiFe-LDH\_W on the Ni foam (see the Supporting Information, Figure S8). 3) A difference between the mass loadings of the LDHs was also observed by comparing the amounts of NiFe-LDHs in the catalysts. To minimize the operational error, we sonicated several pieces of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF and NiFe-LDH\_W/NF and then weighed the amount of NiFe-LDH powder that was obtained, which allowed us to determine the mass loadings of these catalysts. The average mass loading of NiFe-LDH\_D on the Ni foam was calculated to be about 1.4 mgcm@<sup>2</sup> , whilst that of NiFe-LDH\_W was about 0.8 mgcm@<sup>2</sup> .

Secondly, the Ni foams were corroded to different degrees in different soaking solutions. XRD and SEM analyses revealed the degrees of etching of the Ni foam in the DES and in the aqueous solution, which provided favorable evidence regarding the corrosion of the Ni foam. The presence of Ni in the XRD pattern of the NiFe-LDH\_W powder indicated that the corrosion in the aqueous solution was more severe than that in DES (see the Supporting Information, Figure S5 b). Furthermore, SEM analysis also showed the apparent destruction of the Ni foam framework during the growth of NiFe-LDH\_W, whilst the Ni skeleton that was covered with NiFe-LDH\_D remained relatively intact (see the Supporting Information, Figure S8).

Thirdly, the coordination of urea to the NiFe-LDH\_D/NF surface was achieved in situ. EDX analysis of NiFe-LDH\_D showed the presence of elemental nitrogen (see the Supporting Information, Figure S4). Under our synthetic conditions, all of the elemental nitrogen should be derived from urea. Therefore, this result confirmed that urea had coordinated to NiFe-LDH\_D in situ. In addition, FTIR analysis of NiFe-LDH\_D confirmed the existence of urea on the NiFe-LDH\_D/NF surface (Figure 1 b). Moreover, urea had the ability to regulate the electronic structure of the material's metal sites.[18] By comparing the FTIR spectra of the two catalysts, the M@O stretching vibrations were located at 675.61 and 632.63 cm@<sup>1</sup> for NiFe-LDH\_D and NiFe-LDH\_W, respectively (Figure 1 b and the Supporting Information, Figure S6).[17] This difference was attributed to a difference between the strengths of the M@O bond. The d orbital in the transition-metal ions (such as Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ) wasn't filled. As such, the p electrons in urea inevitably partially filled the d orbital and delocalization of the p electrons caused the electron density on the M@O group to increase. Thus, the absorption peak would appear at higher frequency.

We speculated that the differences between NiFe-LDH\_D and NiFe-LDH\_W could be attributed to several factors. The first factor was the viscosity of the medium, that is, the relatively high viscosity of the DES made the ions move more slowly. The second factor was that Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ions in the DES were in a combined state with urea, whereas those in the aqueous phase were free. The synergistic effect of high viscosity and close interactions between the species in the DES prevented the free diffusion of metal ions, which allowed sufficient time to form a well-arranged LDH. On the contrary, free diffusion of the ions in the aqueous solution caused the Ni foam to react more rapidly and undergo more-severe corrosion under the reaction conditions than the DES. Furthermore, the low viscosity of the aqueous solution allowed the generated Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to diffuse into the aqueous solution before it had been built into the LDH, thereby resulting in a low mass loading of NiFe-LDH\_W on the surface of the Ni foam.

The electrocatalytic properties of a NiFe-LDH/NF electrode for the UOR and OER were assessed by performing a series of electrochemical measurements in a standard three-electrode system at room temperature with IR correction. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) analysis before and after IR correction was performed at 5 mV s@<sup>1</sup> (see the Supporting Information, Figure S9). The OER was performed in 1.0m KOH electrolyte, and NiFe-LDH\_D/NF required a potential of 1.39 V (vs. RHE) to achieve a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> (Figure 3 a), which was superior to many previously reported OER catalysts (see the Supporting Information, Table S1). In 1.0m KOH with 0.5m urea solution, the required potential decreased to 1.32 V. As-prepared NiFe-LDH\_D/NF presented superior catalytic activity for the UOR to a lot of non-noble-metal electrocatalysts (see the Supporting Information, Table S2). In addition, by comparing the potentials for the UOR and OER, the favorable thermodynamics of the UOR seemed to result in a remarkable decrease in energy consumption. Further assessment of the suitability of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF for the UOR and OER was obtained from the corresponding Tafel slopes (Figure 3 b). The Tafel slope of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was 42 mV dec@<sup>1</sup> for the OER, whilst it decreased to 38 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> for the UOR. Therefore, NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was clearly an efficient electrocatalyst for both the UOR and OER, with low potentials and small Tafel slopes, whilst the UOR was easier to promote than the OER.

Control experiments with NiFe-LDH\_W/NF, bare Ni foam, and commercial IrO<sup>2</sup> were performed in 1.0m KOH solution in the presence or absence of urea (Figure 3 c, d). The bare Ni

Figure 3. a) Polarization curves and b) Tafel plots in 1.0m KOH electrolyte with and without urea for the UOR and OER. c,d) Polarization curves of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF, NiFe-LDH\_W/NF, IrO<sup>2</sup> , and Ni foam for the UOR (c) and OER (d). e–h) Stability tests of the NiFe-LDH\_D/NF catalyst: polarization curves before and after 1000 CV cycles for the UOR (e) and OER (f), and chronoamperometry tests at a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> for the UOR (g) and OER (h).

foam showed negligible electrocatalytic performance for both anodic oxidation reactions, whilst IrO<sup>2</sup> required potentials of 1.37 V for the UOR and 1.54 V for the OER, which were similar to previous reported values.[5e,19] For NiFe-LDH\_W, the electrocatalytic activity was remarkably enhanced compared with Ni foam and IrO<sup>2</sup> . The potentials that were required to achieve 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> were 1.37 V for the UOR and 1.41 V for the OER. Therefore, NiFe-LDH\_D/NF exhibited better catalytic activity than NiFe-LDH\_W/NF and IrO<sup>2</sup> for the UOR and OER. This phenomenon was related to the structures and morphologies of the two LDHs. Firstly, the surface of NiFe-LDH\_D was modified in situ by urea and could tailor the electronic structure of the metal sites when DES was used as the soaking solution. Secondly, the regular morphology of NiFe-LDH\_D should facilitate the transport of electrolyte, electrons, and generated gases. Thirdly, urea is a polar molecule, which favors the adsorption and activation of water and urea molecules. Therefore, urea itself had a positive impact on the electrocatalytic activity of the urea-modified LDH for the UOR and OER.

Electrocatalytic stability is another key factor in evaluating the performance of a catalyst from a cost viewpoint. The assessment of electrocatalyst stability often incorporates three methods: 1) cyclic voltammetry (CV); 2) chronoamperometry (CA); and 3) controlled-current electrolysis (CCE).[5e,19b,20] CV analysis of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was performed in 1.0m KOH solution with or without 0.5m urea. We found that the polarization curves for both the UOR and OER after 1000 cycles only showed a slight decrease in current density compared with the initial curves (Figure 3 e,f). In the chronoamperometry tests, both the UOR and OER remained stable for 55 hours, with negligible decay in activity (Figure 3 g, h). Controlled-current electrolysis was used to determine the stability of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF during the UOR and OER at a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> (see the Supporting Information, Figure S10). No clear change in the CCE process was observed for at least 24 hours, thus demonstrating excellent stability of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF for the UOR and OER. These three tests all suggested that the DESmediated NiFe-LDH\_D/NF catalyst offered high stability for the anodic oxidation reaction, and is suitable for large-scale industrial production.

Next, we calculated the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF to determine its electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), because these parameters are directly proportional to one another. The Cdl of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was 7.95 mF cm@<sup>2</sup> , which was superior to previously reported values for other NiFe-LDHs that were synthesized by using other methods, such as Ni NP/NiFe-LDH (1.27 mF cm @2 ) and NiFe-LDH (0.8 mF cm@<sup>2</sup> ; see the Supporting Information, Figure S11).[6] This large ECSA was presumably derived from its 3D hierarchical nanostructure. Furthermore, the charge-transfer resistance (Rct) of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was determined by using electrochemical impendence spectroscopy (EIS) to be 1.97 W (see the Supporting Information, Figure S12). Such a low Rct was attributed to its direct growth on the Ni foam, with a low barrier to electronic transmission,[21] which would be beneficial for the kinetics of as-prepared electrodes.

The excellent electrocatalytic activity and durability of the catalyst for the UOR and OER promoted us to conduct postmeasurements on NiFe-LDH\_D/NF after the CA tests for 12 hours at 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , to provide direct evidence of its structure and morphology (see the Supporting Information, Figure S13). XRD analysis clearly revealed that the residual catalytic species was still NiFe-LDH (see the Supporting Information, Figure S14), whilst SEM and TEM images of the NiFe-LDH\_D residue showed that the 3D flowerlike architecture had largely been retained, although the structure had collapsed to some extent (see the Supporting Information, Figure S15). These data indicated that NiFe-LDH\_D/NF had good stability.

The as-synthesized NiFe-LDH\_D/NF has also been shown to exhibit good activity and promising stability for the hydrogenevolution reaction (HER) in 1.0m KOH (see the Supporting Information, Figures S16 and S17). Based on its remarkably catalytic ability for the UOR and OER, as well as for the HER, NiFeLDH\_D/NF was also tested as a catalyst for the electrolysis of urea and for overall water splitting. Thus, a two-electrode electrolyzer was constructed in a single cell by using NiFe-LDH\_D/ NF as both a cathode and an anode (NiFe-LDH D/NF || NiFe-LDH D/NF). For the water splitting in 1.0 M KOH, the electrode couple required 1.61 V to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4a). As expected, the addition of urea significantly improved the electrocatalytic performance. The reguired cell voltage for the electrolysis of urea decreased to 1.52 V in 1.0 м KOH with 0.5 м urea (Figure 4a), which was lower than those of other reported catalysts for the electrolysis of urea, such as NiMoS/Ti | NiMoS/Ti (1.59 V)<sup>[22]</sup> and Pt/C | IrO<sub>2</sub> (1.72 V). [3a] Therefore, in the presence of NiFe-LDH\_D/NF as a catalyst, the electrolysis of urea in alkaline electrolyte is a good substitute for electrochemical hydrogen production. We also probed the stability of NiFe-LDH D/NF during full electrolysis in 1.0 M KOH solution without and with urea by using CV and CA measurements, respectively (Figure 4b-4e). We found that the polarization curves after 1000 CV cycles were almost identical with the initial curves for both the electrolysis of urea and water splitting (Figure 4b, c). In addition, under continuous electrolysis at 1.52 V for the electrolysis of urea and 1.61 V for water splitting, the current density was maintained for over 55 hours with negligible degradation (Figure 4d, e). Therefore, the as-obtained NiFe-LDH\_D/NF catalyst could be employed as a versatile and high-performance catalytic electrode for the si-

**Figure 4.** a) Polarization curves for the electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting. b,c) Stability tests of the NiFe-LDH\_D/NF catalyst: polarization curves before and after 1000 CV cycles for the electrolysis of urea (b) and water splitting (c), and chronoamperometry tests at a current density of  $10 \text{ mAcm}^{-2}$  for the electrolysis of urea (d) and water splitting (e).

multaneous electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting in a base at ambient temperature.

Considering that NiFe-LDH\_D/NF exhibited extraordinarily catalytic activity and electrochemical durability towards the urea electrolyte (1.0 м КОН+0.5 м urea), we investigated the further application of this catalyst to the electrolysis of simulated human urine (1.0 м КОН+0.33 м urea). When the simulated human urine was oxidized, we found that the required potential was similar to that for the 1.0 m KOH+0.5 m urea solution, that is, 1.33 V was needed to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (see the Supporting Information, Figure S18). Next, we performed the full electrolysis of simulated urine by using a single-cell NiFe-LDH\_ D/NF || NiFe-LDH\_D/NF pair and the required voltage to achieve  $10~\text{mA}\,\text{cm}^{-2}$  was 1.51~V. These results showed that NiFe-LDH D/NF is a promising catalyst for the oxidation of urine. Because urine is produced in large quantities every day, the conversion of urine into clean energy whilst lessening its environmental pollution would be highly significant. [2b,23]

### 3. Conclusions

In summary, we used an FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O/urea DES to prepare a NiFe-LDH electrocatalyst through a dipping-redox synthetic strategy. Simply dipping Ni foam into the self-contained DES drove the growth of nanoflowered NiFe-LDH architectures directly on the surface of the foam with regulated composition and structure. NiFe-LDH D/NF possessed excellent electrocatalytic performance for the electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting. A potential of 1.32 V was required for the UOR to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, whilst a potential of 1.39 V was required for the OER. The electrocatalytic performance of NiFe-LDH\_D/ NFs was not only superior to the performance of NiFe-LDH/NF that was obtained from an aqueous solution of FeCl<sub>3</sub>, but also surpassed most of the previously reported transition-metalbased catalysts. Moreover, a NiFe-LDH D/NF || NiFe-LDH D/NF pair system was also able to catalyze the full electrolysis of urea at a cell voltage of 1.52 V, and 1.61 V was required for overall water splitting to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The utilization of hydrated-metal-halide-based DESs as a soaking solution, in combination with a dipping-redox strategy for the preparation of DES-mediated NiFe-LDH, not only enriches the research of DESs, but also offers guidance for the rational surface engineering of catalysts for the electrolysis of urea and overall water splitting with high performance.

## **Experimental Section**

### Materials

Hydrated iron(III) chloride (FeCl $_3$ ·6 H $_2$ O; 98% purity), urea (CON $_2$ H $_4$ ; 98.7% purity), and potassium hydroxide (KOH;  $\geq$  96% purity) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Nickel foam (NF; bulk density: 0.23 g cm $^{-3}$ , thickness: 1.5 mm) was purchased from Changsha Lyrun New Material Co., Ltd. Iridium oxide (IrO $_2$ ; 99.9% purity) was purchased from Aladdin industrial Corp.

### Pretreatment of the Nickel Foam (NF)

First, the Ni foam was cut into individual nanosheets (1.0V1.0 cm<sup>2</sup> ). Then, the sheets were treated with ultrasound in 1.0m HCl solution for 10 min to remove any nickel oxide on the surface. Finally, the sheets were cleaned by washing with absolute EtOH and water and dried in a vacuum oven overnight.

#### Preparation of the FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6 H2O/Urea (2:1) DES

FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O (3.34 g, 12 mmol) was mixed with urea (0.36 g, 6 mmol) and the mixture was heated at 608C until the FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea (2:1) DES was formed as a clear reddish brown solution.

#### Synthesis of NiFe-LDH in the FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/Urea DES (NiFe-LDH\_ D)

First, the pretreated NF sheet was dipped into the as-obtained FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O/urea DES, held in the solution for 30 s at 608C, and then removed. Then, the NF was allowed to cool to RT and washed three times with water and EtOH to remove any impurities. Finally, the as-obtained NiFe-LDH\_D/NF was dried in a vacuum oven overnight at RT. NiFe-LDH\_D was stripped off NiFe-LDH\_D/NF and the removed product was dried in a vacuum oven before further experimental characterization. Based on the weight of the powder that had been stripped from NiFe-LDH\_D/NF, the mass loading was calculated to be about 1.4 mgcm@<sup>2</sup> .

#### Synthesis of NiFe-LDH in an Aqueous Solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> (NiFe-LDH\_W)

First, the pretreated NF sheet was dipped into an aqueous solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> for 30 s at 608C. For comparison, the volume of the solution and the amount of FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O (3.34 g) were the same as that in the DES. FeCl<sup>3</sup> did not dissolve completely in water at RT; however, on heating to 608C, it dissolved quickly and a clear aqueous solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> was obtained in less than 5 min. Then, the Ni foam was removed and the NF was allowed to cool to room temperature, before being washed three times with water and EtOH to remove any impurities. Finally, the as-obtained NiFe-LDH\_W/NF was dried in a vacuum oven overnight at RT. NiFe-LDH\_W was removed from NiFe-LDH\_W/NF and dried in a vacuum oven prior to the analysis. The mass loading was about 0.8 mgcm@<sup>2</sup> .

### Material Characterization

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed on a photoelectron spectrometer ESCALAB 250 XI. X-ray diffraction characterization was performed on a Bruker D8A A25 Xray diffractometer. Transmission electron microscopy was performed on a JEM 1400 TEM. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping and EDX analysis were performed on an Oxford Instruments X-Max<sup>N</sup> . Fourier-transform infrared spectra were recorded on a Thermo Nicolet iS50 FTIR spectrometer. Scanning electron microscopy was performed on a ZEISS MERLIN Compact.

### Electrochemical Measurements

Electrochemical measurements were recorded on a CHI model 760E. The fabricated NiFe-LDH/NF sample was used as the working electrode, a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) was used as the reference electrode, and a graphite rod was used as the counter electrode. Characterization data for the catalysts were obtained in 1.0m KOH, with or without urea, versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) with IR correction. The area of the working electrode was 0.5 cm<sup>2</sup> . A scan rate of 5 mV s@<sup>1</sup> was used in the LSV tests. The potentials that corresponded to a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> were determined according to the equation ERHE= ESCE+0.244 V+0.059 VVpH. Cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronoamperometry (CA), and controlled-current electrolysis (CCE) were performed to assess the stability of the samples. The sweep rate in the CV analysis was 100 mVs @1 for 1000 cycles. Chronoamperometry measurements were performed at a constant voltage for 55 h. To measure the charge-transfer resistance (Rct), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was used at frequencies within the range 0.01 Hz to 100 KHz at an alternating voltage of 5 mV. The experimental EIS data for the equivalent circuit was fitted by using Zview software. The electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) of NiFe-LDH\_D was determined from the CV curves. Because there was no redox peak or other reactions within this voltage range, CV analysis was performed at a scan rate of 20–100 mVs @<sup>1</sup> within the range 1.10–1.20 V (vs. RHE). The capacitive current (DJ; Janodic@Jcathodic) was plotted as a function of CV versus the scan rate. The Cdl value corresponded to half of the gradient of the best-fit line. Cdl was linearly related to the electrochemically active surface area.

# Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21673128).

# Conflict of interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: deep eutectic solvents · electrochemistry · layered double hydroxides · nanostructures · water splitting

- [1] a) N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CS00328A) Soc. Rev. [2017](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CS00328A), 46, 337 – 365; b) B. Zhang, Y. Xue, A. Jiang, Z. Xue, Z. Li, J. Hao, ACS Appl. [Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b00722) 2017, 9, 7217– 7223; c) C. Zhang, B. Xin, Z. Xi, B. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Hong, Z. Li, J. Hao, ACS [Sustainable Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b03954) Eng. 2018, 6[, 1468](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b03954) [– 1477](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b03954).
- [2] a) W. Zhu, M. Ren, N. Hu, W. Zhang, Z. Luo, R. Wang, J. Wang, L. Huang, Y. Suo, J. Wang, ACS [Sustainable Chem. Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b04663) 2018, 6, 5011 –5020; b) W. Xu, Z. Wu, S. Tao, [Energy Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.201600185) 2016, 4, 1329 – 1337; c) J. F. Xie, W. W. Liu, F. C. Lei, X. D. Zhang, H. C. Qu, L. Gao, P. Hao, B. Tang, Y. Xie, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201803718) Eur. J. 2018, 24[, 18408 –](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201803718) 18412; d) C. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zhuo, H. Ju, D. Li, Y. Guo, X. Wu, H. Li, T. Zhai, Adv. [Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201801775) 2018, 8, 1801775 – 1801782.
- [3] a) S. Chen, J. J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, [Angew. Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201600387) Ed. 2016, 55[, 3804](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201600387) [– 3808](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201600387); [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201600387) Chem. 2016, 128, 3868 – 3872; b) D. Liu, T. Liu, L. Zhang, F. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, J. [Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA11127K) A 2017, 5, 3208 – [3213.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA11127K)
- [4] a) R. K. Singh, A. Schechter, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.05.049) 2018, 278, 405– 411; b) Y. Sun, K. Xu, Z. Wei, H. Li, T. Zhang, X. Li, W. Cai, J. Ma, H. Fan, Y. Li, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802121) Mater. 2018, 30[, 1802121;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802121) c) L. Hang, T. Zhang, Y. Sun, D. Men, X. Lyu, Q. Zhang, W. Cai, Y. Li, J. [Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA07773H) 2018, 6[, 19555 –19562](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA07773H); d) Y. Sun, L. Hang, Q. Shen, T. Zhang, H. Li, X. Zhang, X. Lyu, Y. Li, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR03515B) 2017, 9[, 16674 –11667;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR03515B) e) Y. Q. Sun, T. Zhang, X. Y. Li, D. L. Liu, G. Q. Liu, X. M. Zhang, X. J. Lyu, W. P. Cai, Y. Li, Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CC07962A) 2017, 53, 13237 – [13240](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CC07962A); f) L. F. Hang, Y. Q. Sun, D. D. Men, S. W. Liu, Q. Zhao, W. P. Cai, Y. Li, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5[, 11163](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02539D) [– 11170](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02539D); g) J.-W. Wang, P. Sahoo, T.-B. Lu, ACS Catal. 2016, 6[, 5062](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00798) [– 5068](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00798); h) M. Zhang, M. T. Zhang, C. Hou, Z. F. Ke, T. B. Lu, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201406983) Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 13042 – 13048; [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201406983) Chem. 2014, 126[, 13258](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201406983) [– 13264](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201406983).
- [5] a) F. Song, X. Hu, Nat. Commun. 2014, 5, 4477 4485; b) M. Gong, Y. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liang, J. Z. Wu, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4027715) Am. [Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4027715) 2013, 135[, 8452– 8455](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja4027715); c) X. Yang, C. J. Wang, C. C. Hou,

- W. F. Fu, Y. Chen, ACS [Sustainable](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b04199) Chem. Eng. 2018, 6, 2893 2897; d) W. Zhu, Z. Yue, W. Zhang, H. Na, Z. Luo, M. Ren, Z. Xu, Z. Wei, Y. Suo, J. Wang, J. [Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA10584C) A 2018, 6, 4346– 4353; e) F. Zhang, J. Wang, J. Luo, R. Liu, Z. Zhang, C. He, T. Lu, Chem. Sci. 2018, 9[, 1375– 1384.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7SC04569G)
- [6] X. Gao, X. Long, H. Yu, X. Pan, Z. Yi, J. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0561706jes) Soc. 2017, 164, [H307](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0561706jes) [–H310.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0561706jes)
- [7] Z. Li, M. Shao, H. An, Z. Wang, S. Xu, M. Wei, D. Evans, X. Duan, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5SC02417J) Sci. 2015, 6[, 6624– 6631](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5SC02417J).
- [8] a) E. L. Smith, A. P. Abbott, K. S. Ryder, Chem. Rev. 2014, 114[, 11060](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300162p) [11082](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300162p); b) X. Ge, C. Gu, X. Wang, J. Tu, J. [Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA01659J) A 2017, 5, 8209 – [8229](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA01659J); c) O. S. Hammond, D. T. Bowron, K. J. Edler, Green [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5GC02914G) 2016, 18, [2736](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5GC02914G) [– 2744](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5GC02914G).
- [9] a) C. Zhang, B. Zhang, Z. Li, J. Hao, ACS Appl. [Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00197) 2019, 2, [3343](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00197) [– 3351](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00197); b) J. Jiang, C. Yan, X. Zhao, H. Luo, Z. Xue, T. Mu, [Green](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7GC01012E) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7GC01012E) 2017, 19, 3023 [– 3031.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7GC01012E)
- [10] a) N. Rouahna, D. Barkat, A. Ouakouak, E. Srasra, Sens. Lett. 2017, 15, 655– 662; b) Z. Gao, S. Xie, B. Zhang, X. Qiu, F. Chen, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2017.03.002) Eng. J. [2017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2017.03.002), 319, 108 – 118.
- [11] a) X. Ge, C. D. Gu, X. L. Wang, J. P. Tu, J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2015.05.013) Sci. 2015, 454, [134](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2015.05.013) [– 143](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2015.05.013); b) X. Ge, C. D. Gu, X. L. Wang, J. P. Tu, J. [Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA03789H) 2014, 2[, 17066](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA03789H) [– 17076](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA03789H).
- [12] Y. Wang, H. Zhou, Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE00902F) Sci. 2016, 9, 2267 2272.
- [13] D. H. Youn, Y. B. Park, J. Y. Kim, G. Magesh, Y. J. Jang, J. S. Lee, J. [Power](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.06.098) [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.06.098) 2015, 294[, 437– 443.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.06.098)
- [14] a) L. G. Yan, K. Yang, R. R. Shan, T. Yan, J. Wei, S. J. Yu, H. Q. Yu, B. Du, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2015.02.048) Colloid [Interface Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2015.02.048) 2015, 448, 508 – 516; b) V. P. Isupov, A. I. Katunina, I. A. Borodulina, S. S. Shatskaya, J. Mater. Sci. 2007, 42, 9210– 9215.
- [15] a) X. Li, S. Wang, X. Shi, J. Zhanjiang Normal College 2005, 26, 60 64; b) G. Athanasellis, G. Zahariou, S. Kikionis, O. Igglessi-Markopoulou, J. Markopoulos, Bioinorg. Chem. Appl. 2008, 547915; c) Y. Xu, W. Sun, W.

- Li, X. Hu, H. Zhou, S. Weng, F. Zhang, X. Zhang, J. Wu, D. Xu, G. Xu, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1002/1097-4628(20000919)77:12%3C2685::AID-APP160%3E3.0.CO;2-G) Appl. [Polym.](https://doi.org/10.1002/1097-4628(20000919)77:12%3C2685::AID-APP160%3E3.0.CO;2-G) Sci. 2000, 77, 2685 [– 2690](https://doi.org/10.1002/1097-4628(20000919)77:12%3C2685::AID-APP160%3E3.0.CO;2-G); d) Y. J. Wu, Y. Z. Xu, D. J. Wang, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.13495) Appl. [Polym.](https://doi.org/10.1002/app.13495) Sci. 2004, 91, 2869 – 2875; e) D. Gao, X. Li, J. Shi, X. Kang, T. Kang, J. Xia, X. Ling, S. Weng, Y. Xu, I. Noda, J. Wu, Chin. [Chem. Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2015.01.013) [2015](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2015.01.013), 26, 177 – 181; f) X. Cui, J. Wang, B. Liu, S. Ling, R. Long, Y. Xiong, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b06723) Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140[, 16514 –](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b06723) 16520.
- [16] P. Chen, Y. Tong, C. Wu, Y. Xie, [Acc. Chem. Res.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00266) 2018, 51, 2857 2866.
- [17] L. J. Foruzin, Z. Rezvani, Y. H. Shishavan, B. Habibi, Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2017.11.012) [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2017.11.012) 2018, 43, 150 – 160.
- [18] a) N. N. Adarsh, D. Krishna Kumar, P. Dastidar, [CrystEngComm](https://doi.org/10.1039/b803410a) 2008, 10, [1565](https://doi.org/10.1039/b803410a) [– 1573](https://doi.org/10.1039/b803410a); b) R. Custelcean, B. A. Moyer, V. S. Bryantsev, B. P. Hay, [Cryst.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cg0505057) [Growth](https://doi.org/10.1021/cg0505057) Des. 2006, 6[, 555– 563](https://doi.org/10.1021/cg0505057); c) M. M. Mortland, Clay [Miner.](https://doi.org/10.1180/claymin.1966.006.3.02) 1966, 6, [143– 156.](https://doi.org/10.1180/claymin.1966.006.3.02)
- [19] a) H. Lin, J. Wang, X. Guo, S. Yao, M. Liu, Z. Zhang, T. Lu, J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA09240K) Chem. A 2018, 6[, 24479](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA09240K) [– 24485](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA09240K); b) L. Cao, Y. Hu, S. Tang, A. Iljin, J. Wang, Z. Zhang, T. Lu, Adv. Sci. 2018, 5[, 1800949.](https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.201800949)
- [20] Z. Zhang, P. P. Sahoo, J. Tan, T. Lu, S. K. Singh, ChemCatChem 2018, 10, 1075 – 1084.
- [21] W. Zhu, R. Zhang, F. Qu, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, [ChemCatChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201601607) 2017, 9, [1721](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201601607) [– 1743](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201601607).
- [22] X. Wang, J. Wang, X. Sun, S. Wei, L. Cui, W. Yang, J. Liu, [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1711-3) Res. 2018, 11[, 988](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1711-3) [– 996](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1711-3).
- [23] L. Rong, S. Tao, J. T. S. Irvine, Energy Environ. Sci. 2010, 3, 438– 441.

Manuscript received: May 31, 2019 Revised manuscript received: July 10, 2019 Accepted manuscript online: July 16, 2019 Version of record online: August 7, 2019