---
source: Zheng 等 - 2023 - Dual‐Atom Support Boosts Nickel‐Catalyzed Urea Electrooxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 54.867s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:50:53.643651Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

### *Urea Oxidation*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023,** *62,* e202217449 Internationale Ausgabe: [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202217449](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202217449) Deutsche Ausgabe: [doi.org/10.1002/ange.202217449](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202217449)

# **Dual-Atom Support Boosts Nickel-Catalyzed Urea Electrooxidation**

*Xiaobo Zheng, Jiarui Yang, Peng Li, Zhuoli Jiang, Peng Zhu, Qishun Wang, Jiabin Wu, Erhuan Zhang, Wenping Sun, Shixue Dou, Dingsheng Wang,\* and [Yadong](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1544-1127) Li\**

**Abstract:** Nickel-based catalysts have been regarded as one of the most promising electrocatalysts for urea oxidation reaction (UOR), however, their activity is largely limited by the inevitable self-oxidation reaction of Ni species (NSOR) during the UOR. Here, we proposed an interface chemistry modulation strategy to trigger the occurrence of UOR before the NSOR via constructing a 2D/2D heterostructure that consists of ultrathin NiO anchored Ru Co dual-atom support (Ru-Co DAS/NiO). Operando spectroscopic characterizations confirm this unique triggering mechanism on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO. Consequently, the fabricated catalyst exhibits outstanding UOR activity with a low potential of 1.288 V at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and remarkable long-term durability for more than 330 h operation. DFT calculations and spectroscopic characterizations demonstrate that the favorable electronic structure induced by this unique heterointerface endows the catalyst energetically more favorable for the UOR than the NSOR.

[\*] Dr. X. Zheng, J. Yang, Z. Jiang, Dr. P. Zhu, Dr. Q. Wang, Dr. J. Wu, Dr. E. Zhang, Prof. D. Wang, Prof. Y. Li

Department of Chemistry, Tsinghua University

Beijing 100084 (China)

E-mail: wangdingsheng@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn ydli@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn

Dr. P. Li

School of Science, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology Melbourne, VIC 3000 (Australia)

Prof. W. Sun

School of Materials Science and Engineering, State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization, Zhejiang University

Hangzhou 310027 (China)

Prof. S. Dou

Institute of Energy Materials Science,

University of Shanghai for Science and Technology

Shanghai 200093 (China)

Prof. Y. Li

College of Chemistry, Beijing Normal University

Beijing 100875 (China)

and

Key Laboratory of Functional Molecular Solids, Ministry of Education, College of Chemistry and Materials Science,

Anhui Normal University

Wuhu 241002 (China)

### *Introduction*

Converting biomass resources and industrial wastewater into value-added substances via advanced electrocatalysis technique is of paramount significance for both environmental protection and energy-sustainable developments.[1] The electrochemical urea oxidation reaction (UOR) have received considerable attention due to its great role in treating urea-containing wastewater, which could simultaneously decompose urea and generate green hydrogen resource.[2] Meanwhile, the UOR features an energetic advantage with low thermodynamic equilibrium potential (0.37 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), much lower than conventional oxygen evolution reaction (OER) of 1.23 V), enabling it to 70% theoretical energy saving and thereby being a promising alternative to the OER toward sustainable hydrogen generation.[3] Moreover, urea fuel cells (UFCs) have gained enormous attention as sustainable energy storage and conversion device due to their high gravimetric energy density (3000 Whkg <sup>1</sup> ), low cost, and environmental benignity. Despite these advantages, similar to urea electrocatalysis, the practical UFCs are still impeded by the intrinsic sluggish UOR electrokinetics caused by the inherent 6 electron-proton coupled transfer process and complex intermediates adsorption-desorption kinetics, and the inferior stability issues of catalysts.[4] Therefore, devising highly efficient and long-lived electrocatalysts to catalyze urea with accelerated kinetics and lower energy barrier is highly critical and urgently desired to realize the large-scale applications of urea electrocatalysis and UFCs.[5]

Nickel-based materials are considered as one of the most promising catalysts for the UOR due to their fascinating electronic structures and easy availability.[4a, 6] Nevertheless, some of their UOR activity and durability are far from being satisfied, which largely limits their large-scale applications. Previous reports indicated that the NiOOH derivatives induced by the self-oxidation reaction of Ni species (NSOR) are usually regarded as the catalytically active species for the UOR in nickel-based catalysts.[7] As a consequence, this also radically results in the occurrence of electrooxidation of urea falling behind the Ni oxidation reaction, which poses a larger overpotential to drive the UOR. Atomically dispersed metal catalysts such as single and dual-atom site catalysts (SACs and DACs) have attracted considerable research insights due to their high atom utilization efficiency and therefore have been intensively studied in the various catalytic reactions.[8] However, advanced SACs and DACs have been barely reported for urea electrocatalysis, let alone

## *Forschungsartikel*

UOR catalysts featuring dual-atom support (DAS).[9] Therefore, developing a strategy to catalyze urea prior to the NSOR and unraveling the underlying triggering mechanisms by constructing DAS-tailored Ni-based catalysts are of great significance from both fundamental insights and practical applications.

In this work, we report a novel interface chemistry modulation strategy to trigger the occurrence of UOR anterior to the NSOR via constructing a novel 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS tailored NiO heterostructure (Ru-Co DAS/NiO). The structural and spectroscopic characterizations confirm the formation of the unique heterointerface and the resulting strong electronic coupling and charge redistribution between Ru-Co DAS and NiO. Meanwhile, Operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy verified that the UOR prevails over the NSOR with a lower potential on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure. Consequently, the obtained Ru-Co DAS/NiO catalyst exhibits outstanding UOR activity with a low potential of 1.288 V and excellent long-term durability with no obvious decay after 330 h operation. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further predict the more thermodynamically favorable UOR than NSOR on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO catalyst.

#### *Results and Discussion*

The 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructured catalyst was fabricated by a mechanical exfoliation strategy combined with an electrochemical deposition method, as demonstrated in Figure 1. Typically, single Ru-atom doped LiCoO2 was fabricated by the solid-state reaction and the prepared bulk powders were further delaminated via an ultrasonic exfoliation process to obtain the 2D nanosheets (Ru-Co DAS).[10] Then the Ru-Co DAS nanosheets were processed by conducting linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) in NiCl2 solution to acquire Ru-Co DAS decorated ultrathin NiO (denoted as Ru-Co DAS/NiO) (More details can be found in the experimental section). Transmission electron microscope (TEM) images demonstrate the successful synthesis of 2D Ru-Co DAS nanosheets with the maintained crystal structure (Figures S1 and S2). High-angle annual dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (HAADF-STEM) images show that atomically dispersed Ru single atoms are presented as brighter white spots (marked by the white circles) on the Ru-Co DAS (Figure 2a). The intensity profile of the white rectangular area and the colored HAADF-STEM images in the white rectangular area in Figure 2a provide solid evidence to confirm the presence of Ru Co atom-pair. Other representative HAADF-STEM images and elemental mapping images further consolidate the successfully introduced Ru single atoms in the Ru-Co DAS (Figures S3 and S4). As indicated in Figure S5, TEM images demonstrate the successful synthesis of 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure consisting of ultrathin NiO grown on Ru-Co DAS. HAADF-STEM images of Ru-Co DAS/NiO further reveal the interactive effects between Ru-Co DAS and NiO (Figure 2b–d and Figure S6). Moreover, the corresponding colored HAADF-STEM image vividly exhibits the heterointerface between Ru-Co DAS and NiO (Figure 2d). Specifically, the presence of characterized (003) lattice plane with 0.48 nm spacing and the corresponding crystal lattices derived from fast Fourier transform (FFT) suggest the well-maintained crystal structure of Ru-Co DAS with Rm space group in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure 2b and c, and Figure S7). Meanwhile, the observed (200) lattice facet with 0.21 nm spacing and the characterized cubic crystal lattice infer the formation of NiO phase (Fmm), which verifies the successful fabrication of 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure (Figure 2c and d). Other representative HAADF-STEM images presented in the Supporting Information further confirm the formation of a heterointerface between Ru-Co DAS and NiO (Figure S7). The corresponding fast Fourier transform pattern and representative selected area electron diffraction (SAED) confirm the existence of typical lattice facets of Ru-Co DAS (003) and (102), and NiO (200) (Figure 2e and Figure S8). The line scan intensity profile and STEM energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping show that more NiO nanosheets were deposited on the surface of Ru-Co DAS along the (001) direction (Figure 2f, and Figure S9). In

*Figure 1.* Schematic illustration of the fabrication process of the 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure.

15213757, 2023, 22, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202217449 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 2.* Microscopic characterizations of 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure. a) HAADF-STEM image of Ru-Co DAS, suggesting the presence of Ru Co atom-pair on the Ru-Co DAS. The top inset in (a) is the line scan intensity profile derived from the small white rectangle area, and the bottom inset is the colored HAADF-STEM image derived from the white rectangle area. b), c) HAADF-STEM image of Ru-Co DAS/NiO. The inset in (b) is the line scan intensity profile derived from the red rectangle area. The inset on the left side of (c) is the FFT pattern derived from the red rectangle area, and the inset on the right side is the FFT pattern derived from the yellow rectangle area. d) Colored HAADF-STEM image of (c). The inset in (d) is the line san intensity profile derived from the white rectangle area. e) The corresponding FFT pattern of (c). f) Line scan profile of Co, Ni, and Ru in Ru-Co DAS/NiO. Inset is the corresponding HAADF-STEM image and the yellow rectangle is the selected area for the line scan profile. g) STEM-EDS mapping for Co, Ni, Ru, and O in Ru-Co DAS/NiO.

addition, STEM-EDS elemental mapping and EDS spectrum derived from representative area reveal the coexistence of Co, Ni, Ru, and O elements in the heterostructure, further consolidating the successful formation of heterostructured Ru-Co DAS/NiO catalyst (Figure 2g and Figure S10).

To examine the electronic and geometric structure evolution after the formation of Ru-Co DAS/NiO, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) were conducted. The Co K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra demonstrate that the absorption edge of Ru-Co DAS/NiO is higher than Co foil and CoO, but slightly lower than the Ru-Co DAS (Figure 3a), suggesting the slightly enhanced Co 3d electron density and reduced d-band holes in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO.[11] This implies the slightly reduced oxidation state of Co in Ru-Co DAS/NiO compared to Ru-Co DAS after the formation of the heterostructure, which could be further supported by the obvious broadening of Co 2p XPS spectra of Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure S11a).[12] Meanwhile, the deconvoluted components of the O 1s signal of Ru-Co DAS/NiO, including lattice O (529.5 eV), O in hydroxyl group or defective oxygen species (531.3 eV), and O in the adsorbed H2O (533.0 eV), shows lower binding energies than that of Ru-Co DAS, further consolidating the slightly reduced oxidation of Co in Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure S11b and Table S1).[13] The Fourier-Transformed (FT) Co K-edge extend X-ray fine structure (EXAFS) of Ru-Co DAS/NiO

15213757, 2023, 22, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202217449 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 3.* Electronic structure characterizations of Ru-Co DAS/NiO. a) Co K-edge XANES spectra of Co foil, CoO, Ru-Co DAS, and Ru-Co DAS/NiO. The inset in (a) is the enlarged area of Co K-edge XANES. b) Fitting results of FT-EXAFS spectra of Co foil, Ru-Co DAS, and Ru-Co DAS/NiO. c) WT plots for the Co K-edge k3 -weighted EXAFS signal for Ru-Co DAS/NiO. d) Ni K-edge XANES spectra and e) FT-EXAFS spectra of Ni foil, NiO, and Ru-Co DAS/NiO. f) WT plots for the Ni K-edge k3 -weighted EXAFS signal for Ru-Co DAS/NiO. Both the Co and Ni K-edge FT-EXAFS spectra are not phase-corrected.

exhibits an obvious peak at ~1.45 Å, ascribed to the Co O coordination in the first shell, and another peak at ~2.4 Å, which is contributed by Co M (M=Co, Ru, Ni) scattering paths (Figure S12).[14] This is similar to the Co K-edge FT-EXAFS of Ru-Co DAS, further illustrating the wellmaintained crystal structure of Ru-Co DAS in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO. The quantitative EXAFS fitting results (Figure 3b, Figures S13–S15, Table S2) reveal that the average coordination numbers of Co O (~5.0) and Co M (~4.9, M=Co, Ru, Ni) in Ru-Co DAS/NiO are decreased compared with Ru-Co DAS, which further confirms the decreased Co oxidation and the presence of defective oxygen species in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO. These results could be explained by the local structural disorder induced by atomic rearrangement during the formation of heterointerface, and the resulting charge redistribution between the Ru-Co DAS and NiO. The wavelet transform (WT) plots for the Co K-edge k3 -weighted EXAFS further evidence the existence of Co O and Co M scattering path in Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure 3c and Figure S16).[10]

After examining the electronic properties of Co in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO, the electronic and coordination structure of Ni was further explored by the XAS techniques. The adsorption energy of Ni K-edge of Ru-Co DAS/NiO is higher than Ni foil and coincides with NiO reference, suggesting that the valence state of Ni in the Ru-Co DAS/ NiO is close to 2 (Figure 3d). This is supported by the highresolution Ni 2p XPS spectra with the binding energy of ~855.6 eV and ~973.2 eV for Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, respectively (Figure S17). The Ni K-edge FT-EXAFS of RuCo DAS/NiO shows a peak located at ~1.55 Å, assigned to the Ni O coordination in the first shell, which is lower than the NiO (~1.67 Å), indicating the obvious Ni O compression in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure 3e). Meanwhile, a more prominent peak sited at ~2.5 Å derived from the Ni M coordination in the second shell was also observed, suggesting the presence of the NiO phase in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO. Notably, the FT-EXAFS fitting results quantitatively verify the shrinkage of Ni O (~2.0 Å) and Ni M (~ 2.91 Å) in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figures S18–S20 and Table S3). This is well in agreement with the corresponding WT-EXAFS contour maps of Ru-Co DAS/NiO, in which the intensity maximum for Ni O and Ni M scattering paths are lower than the NiO in the R space (Figure 3f and Figure S21). Additionally, the survey spectra and highresolution of Ru 3p, Ru 3d, and Li 1s further collectively confirm the coexistence of Li, Co, Ru, Ni, and O elements in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figures S22 and S23). These results indicate that the formation of the heterointerface between Ru-Co DAS and NiO will induce the charge redistribution, and electronic and coordination evolution of Ru-Co DAS/ NiO, which may have a positive effect on the enhancement of UOR performance.

The UOR performance of Ru-Co DAS/NiO was recorded and compared with those of Ru-Co DAS and Ni foam (NF) in 1 M KOH solution with 0.33 M urea. In addition, the OER activity of Ru-Co DAS/NiO without the addition of urea was also assessed for comparison. As demonstrated in Figure 4a, the Ru-Co DAS/NiO delivers the catalytically most active polarization curve with a huge

Figure 4. Electrochemical performance of Ru-Co DAS/NiO in the 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea. a) LSV curves of NF, Ru-Co DAS, Ru-Co DAS/NiO. b) The corresponding potential at the current density of 10 and 100 mAcm<sup>-2</sup>. c) Tafel slopes. d) The comparison of UOR activity between Ru-Co DAS/NiO and previously reported UOR electrocatalysts at the current density of 10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup>. e) The metal dissolution rate of Co and Ni in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO after a long-term stability test. f) HRTEM image of Ru-Co DAS/NiO after long-term stability test. The inset (left) is the enlarged colored HRTEM image for the yellow rectangle area, and the right inset is the corresponding FFT pattern. g) Chronopotentiometry measurement of Ru-Co DAS/NiO for 330 h at the current density of 10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup>.

increase in current density. Specifically, Ru-Co DAS/NiO exhibits a low potential of 1.288 V to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH solution with 0.33 M urea, which is 108 and 105 mV smaller than Ru-Co DAS and NF (Figure 4b and Table S4). The potential gap further increases to 236 and 216 mV when the current density reaches 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Impressively, the required potential to reach 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is only 1.363 V for Ru-Co DAS/NiO, suggesting the superiority of Ru-Co DAS/NiO in catalyzing urea. In addition, it should also be noted that the UOR in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO happens before the oxidation of Ni species, and therefore it can exhibit a much low potential to catalyze urea. (Figure 4a).

The enhanced UOR kinetics can also be realized by the formation of heterostructured Ru-Co DAS/NiO, which can be inferred by the much smaller Tafel slope of Ru-Co DAS/NiO (23.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than NF (37.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Ru-Co DAS (91.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 4c). This is further supported by the considerably decreased charge transfer resistance of Ru-Co DAS/NiO than NF and Ru-Co DAS, illustrating the important role of heterointerface in accelerating the charge transfer kinetics (Figure S24). Additionally, the double-layer

capacitance  $(C_{dl})$  derived from the cyclic voltammograms (CVs) suggests the considerably increased active site density in Ru-Co DAS/NiO, which is nearly 4 times higher than Ru-Co DAS (Figure S25). More importantly, chronopotentiometry (CP) measurement demonstrates that Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure also delivers outstanding stability at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for more than 330 h with only about 0.52 mV h<sup>-1</sup> decay, better than that of Ru-Co/DAS and NF (Figure 4g and Figure S26a). It should also mention that the small decay is not only caused by the degradation of the catalyst but the detachment from the collector which is usually observed during the gas evolution reaction possibly related to the intense bubble production.<sup>[15]</sup> This is also solidly supported by the obvious detached catalysts during operation and the tiny metal dissolution of Ni (1.22%) and Co (0.47%) after more than 330 h durability test (Figure 4e and Figure S26b). The excellent durability could be attributed to the good structural stability of Ru-Co DAS/NiO, evidenced by the well-maintained morphology, crystal structure, and elemental distribution (Figure 4f, Figures S27 and \$28). Consequently, to our best knowledge, the overall UOR performance of Ru-Co DAS/NiO is superior to most 15213737, 2023, 22, Downloaded from https://onlinelbray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202217449 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Co

*Angewandte*

reported Ni-based catalysts and comparable to the state-ofthe-art UOR electrocatalysts (Figure 4d, and Table S5).

To reveal the underlying UOR mechanisms, *Operando* electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted in 1 M KOH with and without 0.33 M urea, which has been regarded as an effective characterization tool to track the dynamic interface kinetics, electronic transfer, and mass transfer evolution of catalyst during the catalytic process.[6b,16] To rule out the interference of the Ni foam substrate, the *Operando* EIS measurements were conducted with a rotating disk electrode (RDE) system using a glassy carbon electrode. As indicated in Figure 5a, the obvious oxidation peak of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni3<sup>+</sup> was observed in the LSV curve in 1 M KOH solution, which can be attributed to the formation of NiOOH species from NiO. This is reflected by the corresponding phase peak response appearing in the middle-frequency region in the Bode phase plot, which is usually related to the self-oxidation of the catalyst (Figure 5b).[16a,17] The corresponding phase peak decreased significantly after 1.32 V, implying the formation of NiOOH species on the surface of the catalyst. A transition phase peak in the low-frequency region (10<sup>0</sup> –10<sup>1</sup> Hz), usually related to the nonhomogeneous charge distribution caused by the OER, was observed at 1.47 V, suggesting the occurrence of the OER and the important role of NiOOH species in catalyzing water oxidation.[18] In addition, a small semicircle was observed in the high-frequency area (10<sup>5</sup> – 10<sup>6</sup> Hz) of Bode and Nyquist plots for Ru-Co DAS in 1 M KOH with and without 0.33 M urea, which might be related to the oxidation of Co species in Ru-Co DAS.[16b] Accordingly, the Nyquist plots feature three semicircles when the potential reaches 1.47 V, and two of them in the higher frequency could be related to the oxidation of Ru-Co DAS/ NiO, and the one in the low frequency corresponds to the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) of the OER (Figure 5c and Figure S29). It also found that there is an apparent dropping of *R*ct after 1.47 V, demonstrating the onset of OER, well consistent with the corresponding LSV curve. Interestingly,

*Figure 5.* Dynamic evolution of Ru-Co DAS/NiO during UOR and OER process. a) LSV curve of Ru-Co DAS/NiO in 1 M KOH solution. b) The corresponding phase angle relaxation as a function of frequency at different potentials. c) The corresponding Nyquist plots. The inset is a Nyquist plot at 1.42 V. d) LSV curve of Ru-Co DAS/NiO in 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea solution. e) The corresponding Bode plot and f) Nyquist plot at different potentials. The inset is the Nyquist plot at 1.32 V. g) Operando Raman spectroscopy at various potentials and h) the corresponding 3D contour plot. i) The proposed UOR path on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO.

no obvious oxidation peak of NiO was observed in the LSV curve, and the current density increased suddenly at a low potential of 1.27 V in 1 M KOH with 0.33 M urea, suggesting a different reaction mechanism with the introduction of urea (Figure 5d). This is supported by the disappeared phase angle peak in the middle frequency in the Bode plots (Figure 5e). An obvious phase peak response is illustrated in the low-frequency region when the voltage reaches 1.27 V, which could be related to the UOR. Therefore, it can be inferred that the UOR does not happen on the surface of NiOOH, but immediately occurs between the diffuse double layer and the Ru-Co DAS/NiO surface. In addition, the phase angle peak in high-frequency is maintained but with lower intensity, indicating that the electrooxidation of Ru-Co DAS has been suppressed with the introduction of urea. Correspondingly, there are two semicircles in the Nyquist plots and the *R*ct of UOR in the low-frequency begins to decrease sharply at 1.27 V, manifesting the favorable kinetics process of UOR in Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure 5f and Figure S30). The relaxation curves of Ru-Co DAS/NiO in the different electrolytes at the potential of 1.37 V were selected to examine their kinetics difference, in which the absence of phase peak in middle frequency and the substantially decreased in high frequency with the presence of urea suggest the much more favorable UOR than the OER (Figure S31). However, the NOOH species might form on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO at a higher potential during the UOR process, as indicated by the obvious reduction peak in its CV curve (Figure S32).

The operando Raman spectroscopy was then conducted to examine the dynamic evolution mechanisms of Ru-Co DAS/NiO during the UOR process. The ex situ Raman spectroscopy reveals that the signal peaks at ~480 cm <sup>1</sup> and ~590 cm <sup>1</sup> are mainly derived from the oxygen vibrations involving Co O stretching (A1g) and O Co O bending (*E*g) vibrations (Figure 5g and Figure S33).[19] These signal peaks are also well-maintained during the entire UOR process. The peak observed at ~1003 cm <sup>1</sup> corresponds to the symmetric C N stretch of urea, demonstrating the adsorption of urea molecules on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure S34).[3b] A new peak at ~1066 cm <sup>1</sup> , assigned to the symmetric stretch of CO3 <sup>2</sup> , emerged at 1.18 V, and become more pronounced as the potential increases, suggesting that catalyzing urea to CO2 can be realized at a lower potential on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure 5g and h).[20] This is further supported by the maintained peak signal of CO3 after reducing the voltage to the open circuit potential (Figure S35). These observations suggest that Ru-Co DAS/ NiO might follow a novel UOR path, which is different from the traditional path of Ni-based (hydro)oxides, in which they suffered from a self-oxidation to the formation of highvalent active Ni3<sup>+</sup> species and then Ni3<sup>+</sup> species (NiOOH) was acted as the active species to catalyzing urea.[21] In this proposed new path, the UOR tends to occur prior to the formation of NiOOH, which can significantly reduce the reaction barrier and therefore the decreased overpotential to drive UOR (Figure 5i).

To further examine the unique UOR mechanisms on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure, DFT calculations were conducted. The charge density difference of Ru-Co DAS/ NiO revealed that there are considerable electron exchanges in the heterointerface between the NiO and Ru-Co DAS, which is well in agreement with the spectroscopic characterization results, demonstrating the charge redistribution and electronic interaction after the formation of Ru-Co DAS/ NiO (Figure 6a and Figure S36).[22] This is further evidenced by the electron localization function (ELF) of Ru-Co DAS/ NiO (Figure S37). In addition, the projected density of states (PDOS) of Ru-Co DAS/NiO reveals that the PDOS near the Fermi level is mainly contributed by the Co 3d, Ni 3d, Ru 4d, and O 2p orbitals in Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure 6b and Figure S38). The strong overlaps between Co 3d, Ni 3d, Ru 4d, and O 2p endow the possibility of the enhanced electron transfer and exchange capability to activate and accelerate the UOR reaction. Specifically, the Ni 3d orbital exhibits an obvious peak across the Fermi level, which serves as the catalytically active site to catalyze urea with accelerated kinetics. Moreover, the Co 3d orbital features narrowed the *d*-band near the Fermi level, which could as the electron reservoir to Ni active sites.

After examining the intrinsic electronic properties of Ru-Co DAS/NiO, the adsorption behavior of intermediates and reaction pathways on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure is further explored (Figure S39). First of all, the competitive adsorption between CO(NH2)2\* and OH\* on Ru-Co DAS/NiO was examined. As indicated in Figure 6d, the adsorption energy of CO(NH2)2 on Ru-Co DAS/NiO is 1.11 eV, much smaller than the adsorption of OH ( 0.44 eV), suggesting that urea can preferentially occupy the Ni active sites than OH\*. This endows the possibility of the occurrence of UOR before NSOR as the adsorption of urea molecule is the prerequisite for the UOR. However, it is more important to identify the free energy of the initial dehydrogenation from the adsorbed CO(NH2)2\* to CONH2NH\* intermediate, since this is the first electron step of UOR, determining the decomposition feasibility of the adsorbed urea. As indicated in Figure 6e, though there is a small energy increase of 0.34 eV for the initial dehydrogenation of absorbed urea, the energy is still smaller than the formation of OH\*intermediate. Hence, theoretical calculations reveal the thermodynamically favorable process of UOR on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO, suggesting the feasibility to trigger UOR by interface chemistry regulation strategy. The electronic properties evolution of urea molecule on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO is further deployed. As indicated in the charge density difference analysis results, substantial electron transfer from the urea molecule to the Ni site was observed, suggesting the superior catalyzing urea capability of Ru-Co DAS/NiO (Figure S40). The PDOS demonstrates the electronic interactions are mainly derived from the Ni 3d orbital and O 2p/N 2p orbital, which results in the obvious electronic structure alteration of the adsorbed urea with the continuous PDOS band across the Fermi level (Figure 6c and Figures S41 and S42). This ensures the accelerated electron transfer and exchange between Ru-Co DAS/NiO and urea molecule, which could trigger the optimized adsorption kinetics.

*Figure 6.* Theoretical insights into the UOR mechanisms on Ru-Co DAS/NiO. a) Charge density difference of Ru-Co DAS/NiO. b) PDOS of Ni 3d, Co 3d, and O 2p orbitals in the Ru-Co DAS/NiO. c) PDOS of urea molecule before and after adsorption of Ru-Co DAS/NiO surface. d) The adsorption energy of Co(NH2)2\* and OH\*. e) Free energy diagram of the UOR on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO. f) Schematic illustration of the proposed UOR mechanisms.

In addition, the UOR mechanisms were further unraveled by calculating the free energy of various intermediates. The potential-determining step is the dehydrogenation of CONHN\* to CON2\*, with an energy barrier of about 1.31 eV.[23] All elementary steps involving electrons are downhill when applied a basis of 1.31 V, demonstrating the energetically favorable UOR on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure (Figure S43 and Table S6). Also, the lower energy position of CONH2NH\* ( 2.1 eV) than OH ( 1.75 eV) further confirmed the thermodynamically favorable process of UOR even with a potential bias. Therefore, the proposed UOR pathway on the Ru-Co DAS/NiO surface i s CO(NH2 ) <sup>2</sup> \*!CONH2NH\*! CONH2N\*!CONHN\*!CON2\*!CO\* + N2\*!CO\*! COOH\*!CO2\*, as indicated in Figure 6f.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we have proposed a novel interface chemistry regulation strategy to trigger the occurrence of the UOR before the NSOR by constructing a unique 2D/2D Ru-Co DAS/NiO heterostructure. Operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy characterizations verify the superiority of UOR on the Ru-Co DAS/ NiO. Therefore, the Ru-Co DAS/NiO electrocatalyst delivers excellent UOR activity with a low potential of 1.288 V at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and remarkable long-term durability without obvious degradation after 330 h operation. DFT calculations reveal the thermodynamically favorable process of UOR on the surface of Ru-Co DAS/NiO. This study provides new insights to trigger optimized reaction pathways by devising dual-atom support modulated heterostructure towards energy-related applications.

#### *Acknowledgements*

This work was partially supported by the Beijing Natural Science Foundation (2224096), the National Key R&D Program of China (2018YFA0702003), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22171157, 21890383), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2021M690086, 2021TQ0170), and the Australian Research Council (ARC) DECRA Grant (DE230101068). X.B. Zheng acknowledges funding support from the Office of China Postdoctoral Council (YJ20200277) and the "Shuimu Tsinghua Scholar Program (2020SM109)" of Tsinghua University, China. The

authors also thank the BL11B station in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), and the 1W1B station in the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for help with X-ray absorption spectroscopy characterizations.

### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** 2D Heterostructure **·** Dual-Atom Support **·** Electronic Coupling **·** Interface Chemistry **·** Urea Oxidation Reaction

- [1] a) X. Zhu, X. Dou, J. Dai, X. An, Y. Guo, L. Zhang, S. Tao, J. Zhao, W. Chu, X. C. Zeng, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201606313) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [12465](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201606313); b) X. Wu, Y. Wang, Z.-S. Wu, *[Chem](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2022.07.010)* **2022**, *8*, [2594–2629](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2022.07.010); c) Q. Liu, X. B. Liao, Y. H. Tang, J. H. Wang, X. Z. Lv, X. L. Pan, R. H. Lu, Y. Zhao, X. Y. Yu, H. B. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, [3246–3256](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE01463G); d) R. Li, K. Xiang, Z. Peng, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102292) Mater.* **2021**, *11*, [2102292;](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102292) e) B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, *Small* **2020**, *16*, [1906133.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201906133)
- [2] a) T. Wang, X. Cao, L. Jiao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, e202213328; b) S. Chen, J. J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [3804–3808](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201600387); c) R. K. Singh, K. Rajavelu, M. Montag, A. Schechter, *Energy [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.202100017)* **2021**, *9*, [2100017;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.202100017) d) S. Wang, L. Zhao, J. Li, X. Tian, X. Wu, L. Feng, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.08.042) Energy Chem.* **2022**, *66*, [483–492.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.08.042)
- [3] a) L. Zhang, L. Wang, H. Lin, Y. Liu, J. Ye, Y. Wen, A. Chen, L. Wang, F. Ni, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, Y. Li, B. Zhang, H. Peng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [16820–16825;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201909832) b) S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00899-2)* **2021**, *6*, [904–912;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00899-2) c) S. W. Tatarchuk, J. J. Medvedev, F. Li, Y. Tobolovskaya, A. Klinkova, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, e202209839.
- [4] a) E. T. Sayed, T. Eisa, H. O. Mohamed, M. A. Abdelkareem, A. Allagui, H. Alawadhi, K.-J. Chae, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.12.024)* **2019**, *417*, [159–175;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.12.024) b) G. Gnana kumar, A. Farithkhan, A. Manthiram, *Adv. Energy [Sustainability](https://doi.org/10.1002/aesr.202000015) Res.* **2020**, *1*, 2000015.
- [5] Z.-Y. Yu, C.-C. Lang, M.-R. Gao, Y. Chen, Q.-Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S.-H. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, [1890–1897.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE00521D)
- [6] a) X. Xu, Q. Deng, H. C. Chen, M. Humayun, D. Duan, X. Zhang, H. Sun, X. Ao, X. Xue, A. Nikiforov, K. Huo, C. Wang, Y. Xiong, *Research* **2022**, *2022*, 9837109; b) W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202015773) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [7297–7307](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202015773); c) J. Li, S. Wang, S. Sun, X. Wu, B. Zhang, L. Feng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [9308–9326;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA00120A) d) J.-Y. Zhang, T. He, M. Wang, R. Qi, Y. Yan, Z. Dong, H. Liu, H. Wang, B. Y. Xia, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *60*, [894–902.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.04.035)
- [7] a) G. Ma, Q. Xue, J. Zhu, X. Zhang, X. Wang, H. Yao, G. Zhou, Y. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *265*, [118567;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118567) b) Y. Wang, C. Wang, H. Shang, M. Yuan, Z. Wu, J. Li, Y. Du, *J. [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.07.124) [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.07.124) Sci.* **2022**, *605*, 779–789; c) Q. Zhang, F. M. D. Kazim,

- S. Ma, K. Qu, M. Li, Y. Wang, H. Hu, W. Cai, Z. Yang, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119436) Catal. B* **2021**, *280*, [119436.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119436)
- [8] a) W. H. Li, J. Yang, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202213318; b) T. Cui, Y. P. Wang, T. Ye, J. Wu, Z. Chen, J. Li, Y. Lei, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202115219; c) G. Wang, Z. Chen, T. Wang, D. Wang, J. Mao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202210789; d) Y. Wang, X. B. Zheng, D. S. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [1730–1752;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3794-0) e) P. Zhu, X. Xiong, D. S. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [5792–5815](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4265-y); f) R. Z. Li, D. S. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [6888–6923;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4371-x) g) X. B. Zheng, B. B. Li, Q. S. Wang, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4429-9) Res.* **2022**, *15*, [7806–7839](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4429-9); h) X. Zheng, P. Li, S. Dou, W. Sun, H. Pan, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE00248A) Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 2809; i) Z. Liu, Y. Du, R. Yu, M. Zheng, R. Hu, J. Wu, Y. Xia, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202212653; j) Z. Zhang, J. Zhu, S. Chen, W. Sun, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202215136.
- [9] a) A. Kumar, X. Liu, J. Lee, B. Debnath, A. R. Jadhav, X. Shao, V. Q. Bui, Y. Hwang, Y. Liu, M. G. Kim, H. Lee, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE02603H) Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, [6494–6505](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE02603H); b) H. Sun, L. Li, H.-C. Chen, D. Duan, M. Humayun, Y. Qiu, X. Zhang, X. Ao, Y. Wu, Y. Pang, K. Huo, C. Wang, Y. Xiong, *Sci. Bull.* **2022**, *67*, [1763–](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scib.2022.08.008) [1775](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scib.2022.08.008).
- [10] X. Zheng, J. Yang, Z. Xu, Q. Wang, J. Wu, E. Zhang, S. Dou, W. Sun, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202205946.
- [11] X. Zheng, Y. Chen, W. Lai, P. Li, C. Ye, N. Liu, S. X. Dou, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, [2200663.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202200663)
- [12] L. Dahéron, R. Dedryvère, H. Martinez, M. Ménétrier, C. Denage, C. Delmas, D. Gonbeau, *Chem. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm702546s)* **2008**, *20*, 583– [590](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm702546s).
- [13] a) S. Hao, H. Sheng, M. Liu, J. Huang, G. Zheng, F. Zhang, X. Liu, Z. Su, J. Hu, Y. Qian, L. Zhou, Y. He, B. Song, L. Lei, X. Zhang, S. Jin, *Nat. [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-021-00986-1)* **2021**, *16*, 1371–1377; b) L. Zu, X. Qian, S. Zhao, Q. Liang, Y. E. Chen, M. Liu, B. J. Su, K. H. Wu, L. Qu, L. Duan, H. Zhan, J. Y. Zhang, C. Li, W. Li, J. Y. Juang, J. Zhu, D. Li, A. Yu, D. Zhao, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c11241) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [2208–2217](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c11241).
- [14] a) X. Zheng, P. Cui, Y. Qian, G. Zhao, X. Zheng, X. Xu, Z. Cheng, Y. Liu, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202005241) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [14533–14540;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202005241) b) J. Wang, S. J. Kim, J. P. Liu, Y. Gao, S. Choi, J. Han, H. Shin, S. Jo, J. Kim, F. Ciucci, H. Kim, Q. T. Li, W. L. Yang, X. Long, S. H. Yang, S. P. Cho, K. H. Chae, M. G. Kim, H. Kim, J. Lim, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, [212–222](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00578-1).
- [15] A. L. Li, S. Kong, C. X. Guo, H. Ooka, K. Adachi, D. Hashizume, Q. K. Jiang, H. X. Han, J. P. Xiao, R. Nakamura, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [109–118](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00732-9).
- [16] a) Y. Qi, Y. Zhang, L. Yang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhu, H. Jiang, C. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4602; b) H. Y. Wang, S. F. Hung, H. Y. Chen, T. S. Chan, H. M. Chen, B. Liu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b10525) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [36–39;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b10525) c) W. Chen, Y. Wang, B. Wu, J. Shi, Y. Li, L. Xu, C. Xie, W. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, T. Wang, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, C. Chen, J. Zheng, J. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. Zou, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, [2105320.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202105320)
- [17] R. Ge, Y. Wang, Z. Li, M. Xu, S. M. Xu, H. Zhou, K. Ji, F. Chen, J. Zhou, H. Duan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202200211.
- [18] a) Y. Lu, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Y. Zou, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. Li, N. He, J. Shi, S. Wang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202007767) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [19215–19221](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202007767); b) Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202107185)* **2022**, *34*, [2107185;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202107185) c) M. E. G. Lyons, M. P. Brandon, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2009.03.019) [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2009.03.019) Chem.* **2009**, *631*, 62–70.
- [19] X. Zheng, Y. Chen, X. Zheng, G. Zhao, K. Rui, P. Li, X. Xu, Z. Cheng, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Adv. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201803482) Mater.* **2019**, *9*, [1803482](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201803482).

## *Forschungsartikel*

- [20] V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137) Acta* **2013**, *108*, [660–665.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2013.06.137)
- [21] L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202100610) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [10577–10582.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202100610)
- [22] a) G. Wen, B. Ren, M. G. Park, J. Yang, H. Dou, Z. Zhang, Y. P. Deng, Z. Bai, L. Yang, J. Gostick, G. A. Botton, Y. Hu, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [12860–12867](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202004149); b) B. Ren, G. Wen, R. Gao, D. Luo, Z. Zhang, W. Qiu, Q. Ma, X.
- Wang, Y. Cui, L. Ricardez-Sandoval, A. Yu, Z. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2486.
- [23] H. Jiang, M. Sun, S. Wu, B. Huang, C. S. Lee, W. Zhang, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202104951) Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, [2104951.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202104951)

Manuscript received: November 27, 2022 Accepted manuscript online: March 23, 2023 Version of record online: April 19, 2023