---
source: Zhong 等 - 2024 - Significantly Enhanced Energy‐Saving H2 Production Coupled with Urea Oxidation by Low‐ an.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 20.598s
generated: 2026-01-09T20:51:14.245146Z
---

# **Significantly Enhanced Energy-Saving H2 Production Coupled with Urea Oxidation by Low- and Non-Pt Anchored on NiS-Based Conductive Nanofibers**

*Mengxiao Zhong, Junyu Yang, Meijiao Xu, Siyu Ren, Xiaojie Chen, Ce Wang, Mingbin Gao,\* and Xiaofeng Lu\**

**Rational designing electrocatalysts is of great significance for realizing high-efficiency H2 production in the water splitting process. Generally, reducing the usage of precious metals and developing low-potential nucleophiles oxidation reaction to replace anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) are efficient strategies to promote H2 generation. Here, NiS-coated nickel–carbon nanofibers (NiS@Ni-CNFs) are prepared for low-content Pt deposition (Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs) to attain the alkaline HER catalyst. Due to the reconfiguration of NiS phase and synergistic effect between Pt and nickel sulfides, the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst shows a high mass activity of 2.74-fold of benchmark Pt/C sample. In addition, the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst performs a superior urea oxidation reaction (UOR) activity with the potential of 1.366 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which demonstrates the great potential in the replacement of OER. Thus, a urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs (cathode)||NiS@Ni-CNFs (anode) is constructed to exhibit small voltages of 1.44 and 1.65 V to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is much lower than its overall water splitting process, and presents a 6.5-fold hydrogen production rate enhancement. This work offers great opportunity to design new catalysts toward urea-assisted water splitting with significantly promoted hydrogen productivity and reduced energy consumption.**

M. Zhong, M. Xu, S. Ren, X. Chen, C. Wang, X. Lu Alan G. MacDiarmid Institute College of Chemistry Jilin University 2699 Qianjin Street, Changchun 130012, P. R. China E-mail: [xflu@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:xflu@jlu.edu.cn)

J. Yang Division of Energy Materials Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics Chinese Academy of Sciences Dalian 116023, P. R. China

M. Gao

National Engineering Research Center of Lower-Carbon Catalysis Technology

Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics Chinese Academy of Sciences Dalian 116023, P. R. China

E-mail: [mbgao@dicp.ac.cn](mailto:mbgao@dicp.ac.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under<https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202304782>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202304782**

# **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen (H2) is considered to be one of the most promising alternatives to fossil fuels due to its high mass energy density and zero pollution.[1–4] Water splitting is acknowledged as an efficient, economical and sustainable strategy to produce high-purity H2, which compensates for the shortcomings of traditional H2 production technologies, such as large release of CO2, the generation of harmful by-products, and high energy consumption.[5–8] In the two half reactions of overall water splitting, the activity of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is strongly influenced by the coverage of the adsorbed H species in a proportional manner. The HER efficiency is undesirable in alkaline medium due to the lower coverage of adsorbed H species than in acidic electrolyte.[9–11] However, the HER catalysts offer higher durability due to the lower cathode dissolution under alkaline conditions. Therefore, rational designing and synthesizing an efficient alkaline HER catalyst is desirable but challenging.

So far, platinum (Pt) is still the most active HER catalyst owing to its moderate binding capacity with adsorbed H intermediate and the high intrinsic activity.[12–16] Nevertheless, apart from the free energy of adsorbed H species (Δ*G*H\*), the efficiency of alkaline HER also depends on the dissociation energy of water molecules which is the first step (Volmer step) of HER under alkaline condition.[17] The sluggish water dissociation kinetics of Pt under alkaline condition leads to inefficient HER activity.[18,19] Therefore, considering the significant increase in hydrogen demand and the additional pressure on already scarce Pt catalysts, how to reduce the Pt content while achieving superior catalytic activity is the key to the design and synthesis of high-performance Pt-based HER electrocatalysts. Minimizing the size of Pt species is an effective way to improve Pt utilization efficiency, and thus reduce the dosage of Pt in catalysts.[20–22] However, the particles extremely prone to aggregate with decreasing size down to several nanometers, which results in deteriorated activity.[20,23] On this basis, in order to efficiently immobilize the Pt species, it is rational to introduce suitable substrates to enhance the intrinsic activity of low-loaded

Pt-based catalysts.[24–26] Transition metal-based compounds, including oxides,[18,19,27] hydroxides,[28–30] phosphides,[31] sulfides,[32,33] and carbides,[34] have been regarded as HER catalysts, which can be further served as substrate to couple with other catalysts to promote the electrocatalytic performance. In this regard, the interfacial synergistic effect among different compositions boosts the HER activities. Some transition metalbased compounds are capable to cleave the HO–H bond,[35–37] hence reducing the energy barrier for the Volmer step in alkaline HER. For example, Sun et al.[18] successfully dispersed Pt nanoparticles on LiCoO2 nanosheets (Pt/LiCoO2), whereas the Pt nanoparticles are the active centers and the substrate LiCoO2 plays the role of confining the nanoparticles and promoting water dissociation. Among various transition metal-based compounds, the first-row transition metal sulfides (NiS, Ni3S2, CoS2, FeS2, and their composites) have been widely investigated due to their advantages of high electrical conductivity, rich valence states and low cost.[38–40] Guan et al.[41] constructed a Ni3S2/NiS heterojunction on Ni foam with the overpotential of 129 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> toward alkaline HER. The catalyst presents a favorable downshifting of the d-band center due to the strong charge transfer between Ni3S2 and NiS, which optimized the valence state of Ni and the free energy of adsorbed H intermediate on the active sites. Furthermore, the formation of NiS accelerated the conductivity of catalyst, together enhancing the HER activity. Inspired by these findings, anchoring Pt species onto transition metal sulfides is expected to further reduce the HER overpotential and overcome the intrinsic activity limitation of low-loaded Pt-based catalysts.

Apart from developing high-performance HER and OER catalysts to improve the efficiency of overall water splitting for H2 production, replacing OER with other nucleophiles oxidation reactions is another approach to radically reduce energy depletion.[42–44] Among various nucleophile reagents, urea has attracted much attention as a promising candidate because of its high energy density, abundant reserves, and low cost.[45,46] Moreover, urea-assisted water splitting process not only enables H2 production but also treats the urea-rich wastewater, which is also highly expected for environmental protection.[47] Urea oxidation reaction (UOR) process can be expressed as follows:[48,49] CO(NH2)2 + 6OH<sup>−</sup> → CO2 + N2 + 5H2O + 6e<sup>−</sup>. Theoretically, UOR only requires a thermodynamic potential of 0.37 V, which is remarkably lower than 1.23 V of OER.[50,51] However, the sluggish six electron transfer process triggers the slow kinetics of UOR. Therefore, it is necessary to design a highly efficient catalyst to overcome the kinetic barrier. And previous reports have proved that Ni-based materials can act as desirable energy saving catalysts for urea-assisted water splitting in alkaline medium.[52]

Herein, we report the fabrication of low-content Pt species anchored on NiS-coated nickel-carbon nanofibers (Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs) as efficient alkaline HER catalyst. Benefiting from the conductive substrates, the reconfiguration of NiS phase and strong interfacial interactions between Pt and NiS components, the obtained Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst exhibits a superior HER efficiency with 2.74-fold mass activity of benchmark Pt/C catalyst. In addition, the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst performs excellent for UOR, which only requires 1.366 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea system. It shows a merit of about 200 mV over OER at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Based on the superior HER and UOR electrocatalytic performances, a urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer is assembled, in which the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs and NiS@Ni-CNFs catalysts are served as cathode and anode, respectively. The electrolyzer can afford the current density of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a low voltage of 1.44 and 1.65 V, and exhibits a promoted hydrogen production rate of 6.5-fold of the overall water splitting device with the same electrodes, demonstrating the great potential for energy saving and highly efficient H2 production.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Characterizations of Catalysts**

As shown in **Figure 1**a, we have first prepared flexible PAN nanofibrous membranes containing Ni(CH3COO)2 with diameters of around 520–580 nm by electrospinning technology (Figure S1, Supporting Information). After a high-temperature pyrolysis, the diameters of Ni-CNFs with smooth surface shrinks to 240–260 nm because of the decomposition of polymer (Figure S2a, Supporting Information). Since Ni-CNFs still possess flexible and bendable properties, they can be used as selfsupporting membrane electrodes in electrodeposition reactions. In general, metallic Ni can be reduced in two steps by adsorption intermediates

Ni (II) 
$$L + e^- \rightarrow Ni$$
 (I)  $L_{ads}$  (1)

Ni (I) 
$$L_{ads} + e^- \rightarrow Ni$$
 (s) + L (2)

where L is the ligand of citrate ion, which can cooperate with Ni2<sup>+</sup> to form complexes and subsequently reacts on the cathode to deposit metallic Ni on the surface of the self-supported fibrous membrane. As depicted in Figure S2b (Supporting Information), the diameters of the electrodeposited nanofibers become thicker to 490–530 nm with a significant accumulation of nanoparticles on the surface. In the following, the as-prepared Ni@Ni-CNFs are subjected to hydrothermal vulcanization operation to obtain NiS@Ni-CNFs. The vulcanization reaction results in a rougher surface and a slight increase in fiber diameters to ≈650–710 nm (Figure S3a, Supporting Information). The subsequent ion adsorption leads to the attachment of Pt species on the surface of NiS@Ni-CNFs. As shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), there is no significant change in the morphology of Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs obtained by adsorbing different concentrations of Pt solution. Moreover, the surface morphology and fiber diameters of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs, which are obtained by a thermal reduction of the adsorbed products under H2/Ar atmosphere, are similar to those before the reduction process (Figure 1b; Figure S5a–c, Supporting Information). In addition, the H2 treated-control sample with no Pt addition (H-NiS@Ni-CNFs) also remains the rough surface (Figure S6, Supporting Information). To further investigate the morphological characteristics of the as-prepared samples, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis is used to observe the interior structure. As presented in the TEM image of Ni-CNFs (Figure S2c, Supporting Information), there are plenty of nanoparticles uniformly embedded in the CNFs with smooth surface. However, after the electrodeposition process, the TEM image of the obtained

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the fabrication of NiS@NiCNFs and Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs. b) SEM and c) TEM images of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5. d) XRD patterns of prepared samples. e) HRTEM image, and f) EDX pattern of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5. g) HAADF-STEM image and EDX mappings of Pt, Ni, and S elements of the prepared Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5.

Ni@Ni-CNFs shows that many nanoparticles are accumulated on their surface (Figure S2d, Supporting Information). Due to the arranging of the relatively tight nanoparticles on the fiber surface, the sulfides in the NiS@Ni-CNFs sample obtained from the vulcanization process exhibit a continuous shell layer along the nanofibers (Figure S3b, Supporting Information), which are also well-maintained in the final Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs and H-NiS@Ni-CNFs samples (Figure 1c; Figure S5,S6b, Supporting Information).

The crystal structures of the prepared samples are characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurement. As illustrated in Figure 1d, the diffraction peaks located at 44.6°, 51.9°, and 76.5° are indexed to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of metallic Ni (JCPDS No.04-0850), which indicates that after pyrolysis process, the Ni component in PAN nanofibers decomposes into metallic Ni nanoparticles and is embedded in the nanofibers. Because of the electrodeposition at the cathodic potential, Ni2<sup>+</sup> ions coordinate with citrate ions are reduced to metallic Ni, which still exhibit obvious Ni phase in Ni@Ni-CNFs. And the XRD pattern of NiS@Ni-CNFs sample after the vulcanization illustrates strong and sharp diffraction peaks, corresponding to -NiS phase (JCPDS No.12-0041). Notably, the Ni peaks in the XRD pattern

**Figure 2.** XPS spectra of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs and H-NiS@NiCNFs: a) Full survey, b) Pt 4f, c) S 2p, d) Ni 2p, and e) C 1s. f) Raman spectra of prepared samples.

of NiS@Ni-CNFs almost disappear, demonstrating that the Ni source introduced by electrospinning also undergoes vulcanization process as well. However, there is still a very small diffraction peak at 44.6° corresponding to metallic Ni that can be observed in the NiS@Ni-CNFs sample, illustrating that the vulcanization of the Ni source in the CNFs is not complete and a little Ni residue exi in the product. In the following, it is apparent to see that the crystal type of Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs sample is scarcely changed and no obvious diffraction peaks of metallic Pt are observed, even in the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs samples (Figure S7, Supporting Information), which can result from the low content of Pt and the small size of the nanoparticles. Therefore, the possible active metals in the samples are quantified by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) (Table S1, Supporting Information), and the mass percentage of Pt in Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 is only 4.9 wt%. The lattice fringe of 0.229 nm illustrated in the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of NiS@Ni-CNFs (Figure S8a, Supporting Information) can be ascribed to the (211) plane of -NiS. The energy dispersive Xray (EDX) spectrum shows the presence of Ni, S, and C elements in the NiS@Ni-CNFs (Figure S8b, Supporting Information). In addition, the d-spacings observed from the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern can be in accordance with the XRD results (Figure S8c, Supporting Information). High-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image and EDX mappings further exhibit the well distribution of Ni, S, and C elements along the entire nanofiber (Figure S8d, S8e, Supporting Information). It is worth noting that the distribution of C element is significantly narrower than that of Ni and S elements, indicating that the prepared nanofibers have a core–shell structure with carbon fibers as the core and NiS as the shell layer. The (111) and (200) planes of Pt with *d*-spacing of 0.227 and 0.195 nm, respectively, can be clearly observed in the HRTEM of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 (Figure 1e). On the other hand, the long lattice fringes of 0.188 nm correspond to the (131) plane of -NiS phase. The TEM result also shows that Pt nanoparticles are deposited on the surface of NiS matrix. The statistic histogram of the size distribution of Pt nanoparticles has been given in Figure S9 (Supporting Information), revealing that the average size of Pt nanoparticles is around 4.0 nm. The EDX spectrum reveals obvious signals of Pt element, further demonstrating the existence of Pt in the final Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs sample (Figure 1f). However, in accordance with the XRD results, the SAED pattern of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs also displays only -NiS phase without any obvious diffraction signals from Pt (Figure S10a, Supporting Information), which indicates that the aggregation of Pt is minimal. Furthermore, the HAADF-STEM image and EDX mappings distinctly reveal the homogeneous distribution of Pt, Ni, S, and C elements (Figure 1g; Figure S10b, Supporting Information). In addition, it can be clearly observed in the HADDF/STEM line scans of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 that the signals for Ni and S elements are strong on sides and weak in the middle, further demonstrating the core–shell structure of the nanofibers (Figure S11, Supporting Information).

We have explored the chemical states and electronic properties of our prepared samples through X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) analysis. **Figure 2**a gives the full surveys of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 and H-NiS@Ni-CNFs, which further confirms the presence of Pt species. The overlapped peak **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202304782 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

observed at the binding energy of 68.1 eV is attributed to Ni 3p (Figure 2b).[9] The narrow-scan XPS spectrum of Pt 4f displays the doublets at 72.0 and 75.5 eV, corresponding to Pt 4f7/2 and 4f5/2, which can be deconvoluted into Pt0 (71.6 and 74.6 eV) and Pt<sup>+</sup> (72.3 and 75.5 eV).[53,54] The Pt<sup>+</sup> species are dominant, revealing the formation of a higher coordination number with the Pt–S or some Pt–O*<sup>x</sup>* bonds than the Pt–Pt bonds.[55] Moreover, the effects of Pt loading on the electronic state of NiS is further investigated. The fine spectrum of S 2p region of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 can be deconvoluted into four major peaks, where the binding energy peaks at 161.8 and 162.8 eV correspond to 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of S<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>, respectively (Figure 2c).[56,57] The other two characteristic peaks with binding energies of 163.8 and 168.6 eV are attributed to metal–S bond and surface oxides of sulfur (e.g., SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>).[58,59] Interestingly, compared with the H-NiS@Ni-CNFs sample without Pt loading, the characteristic peaks of S 2p in Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 sample exhibit a significant negative shift, which further confirms that the electrons are able to transfer from Pt to S through the Pt–S bonds and enriched around S atom.[55] In addition, the binding energies located at 853.2 and 870.3 eV observed from the Ni 2p spectrum of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 are assigned to Ni2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of metallic Ni, which are mainly derived from the substrate Ni-CNFs (Figure 2d).[60] And the characteristic peaks at 856.0 and 873.9 eV correspond to Ni 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Ni2<sup>+</sup>, accompanied with two satellite peaks at 860.9 and 879.6 eV, respectively, arising from -NiS.[32,61] Notably, a negative shift of the binding energies of Ni 2p is detected after introducing Pt content, suggesting that the loading of Pt increases the electron density around the Ni atom, which is beneficial for the enhancement of electrocatalytic performances. C 1s spectrum reveals three peaks centered at 284.7, 285.6, and 288.1 eV, corresponding to C–C/C═C, C–O and C═O bonds (Figure 2e).[62] Additionally, the XPS characterization on NiS@Ni-CNFs samples is also investigated, confirming the formation of NiS on the surface of Ni-CNFs (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Figure 2f displays the Raman spectra of asprepared samples. The peaks at the Raman shift of 246 and 352 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are attributed to -NiS vibrations.[63,64] And the observed peak at the position of ≈560 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs is ascribed to the Pt–O*<sup>x</sup>* vibration,[65] further demonstrating the presence of Pt and some surface oxides in our prepared Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs samples.

#### **2.2. Hydrogen Evolution Reaction (HER)**

The alkaline HER performances of the prepared catalysts are investigated by using the typical three-electrode electrocatalytic system. As shown in the **Figure 3**a,b, it can be seen that the overpotential of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 is 62.6 mV at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, lower than that of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5 (119.2 mV), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1 (100.7 mV), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-5 (81.8 mV), H-NiS@Ni-CNFs (176.8 mV), NiS@Ni-CNFs (195.3 mV), Ni@Ni-CNFs (116.4 mV), and Ni-CNFs (183.9 mV), and slightly higher than that of commercial Pt/C (31.0 mV). Notably, based on the measured polarization curves, although Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst exhibits higher overpotentials than commercial Pt/C within the test range, the HER activity of the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 tends to surpass that of commercial Pt/C at the higher applied potential. Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst only requires an overpotential of 179 mV to achieve a high current density of 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Thus, it has promising application prospects in water splitting, and also presents a significant advantage over many reported catalysts in terms of HER activity (Table S2, Supporting Information). Specifically, all the prepared Pt-containing catalysts (Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs) have lower overpotentials than the prepared Pt-free catalysts, indicating that the low Pt loading is beneficial for the enhancement of HER activity. Generally, a higher loading of Pt produces a better HER activity, therefore, Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst shows a lower overpotential than Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5 and Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1. However, a further increased Pt loading leads to a little increasing of the size of Pt nanoparticles (Figure S13, Supporting Information), resulting in a reduced HER activity. Therefore, the optimal concentration of Pt solution for ion adsorption experiments to prepare Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs is 2.5 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> m. Based on the ICP data given in Table S1 (Supporting Information), the mass activity in terms of Pt of each Pt-containing catalyst is calculated to assess the intrinsic activity of the catalyst. As shown in Figure 3c, Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst exhibits the highest mass activity value (1209.2 A g<sup>−</sup>1), which is 2.74-fold of the commercial Pt/C, indicating that the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst has superior intrinsic activity at a lower mass loading of Pt.

Tafel slopes are also calculated to assess the kinetics of the catalysts. As shown in Figure 3d, the Tafel slope of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst is calculated to be 42.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which outperforms to that of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5 (82.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1 (58.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-5 (56.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), H-NiS@Ni-CNFs (109.4 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), NiS@Ni-CNFs (117.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ni@Ni-CNFs (72.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and Ni-CNFs (144.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and is comparable to that of commercial Pt/C (42.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1). In general, the mechanism of HER process can be simply determined from the Tafel slope.[66] Therefore, the calculated value of 42.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> means that the rate-determining step (RDS) in our case is the Heyrovsky step (M-Hads + H2O + e<sup>−</sup> → M + H2 + OH<sup>−</sup>). That is, our prepared Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst follows the Volmer–Heyrovsky mechanism for HER process. The kinetics of the catalyst on HER can be further investigated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement (Figure 3e). According to the Nyquist plots fitted by the equivalent circuit model (Figure S15, Supporting Information), the semicircle diameter in the low frequency region is the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) of the catalyst toward HER. Thus, the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst performs the lowest *R*ct value of 3.03 Ω, which is lower than that of other prepared comparison samples listed in Table S3 in the Supporting Information. A lower *R*ct value represents a faster charge transfer ability. It illustrates that the catalyst has kinetic merits which facilitates the enhancement of electrocatalytic performances. It is worth noting that all the catalysts loaded with Pt species have significantly lower charge transfer resistances. And based on the former XPS characterization, it can be inferred that the Pt loading may have a modulating effect on the electron density of Ni sites, which promotes electron transfer and improves the electrocatalytic activity.

The intrinsic activity of the catalysts can be evaluated by electrochemical surface area (ECSA), which can be obtained from the value of the double layer capacitance (*C*dl). As shown in

**Figure 3.** HER measurements in 1 m KOH. a) Polarization curves of different catalysts. b) Overpotential comparison histogram of different catalysts at the currents densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. c) Mass activity in terms of Pt of different catalysts at the overpotential of 150 mV. d) Corresponding Tafel plots. e) Nyquist plots of as-prepared catalysts at the potential of −1.1 V versus Hg/HgO electrode in an enlarged region of Figure S14 in the Supporting Information. f) TOF plots of different catalysts. g) *i–t* curve at −1.05 V versus Hg/HgO electrode. h) Calculated free energy diagrams for water dissociation on the surface of NiS, Pt-NiS, Ni3S2, Pt-Ni3S2. i) Calculated free energy diagrams for hydrogen desorption steps on the surface of NiS, Pt-NiS, Ni3S2, and Pt-Ni3S2 for alkaline HER process.

Figures S16,S17 (Supporting Information), the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst exhibits a *C*dl value of 14.5 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, higher than Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5 (9.8 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1 (10.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), and Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-5 (10.4 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2). The corresponding ECSA and roughness factor (RF) values are calculated to be shown in Table S4 (Supporting Information), demonstrating that the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst has a larger electrochemical active area and roughness. This suggests that the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst is available in more active sites than other control samples with different loading of Pt content. Moreover, the linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves of Pt-based catalysts are normalized by ECSA, which suggests the higher intrinsic catalytic activity of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst (Figure S18a, Supporting Information).[67] The turnover frequency (TOF) is another important parameter for an in-depth understanding of the catalyst intrinsic activity. As displayed in Figure 3f, assuming that all metal contents contained in the catalyst participate in the catalytic reaction, the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst reveals the highest TOF value of 0.029 s<sup>−</sup>1, superior to Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5 (0.006 s<sup>−</sup>1), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1 (0.013 s<sup>−</sup>1), Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-5 (0.020 s<sup>−</sup>1), H-NiS@Ni-CNFs (0.001 s<sup>−</sup>1), NiS@Ni-CNFs (0.001 s<sup>−</sup>1), Ni@Ni-CNFs (0.003 s<sup>−</sup>1), and Ni-CNFs(0.002 s<sup>−</sup>1). The ECSA-normalized TOF plots are also given in Figure S18b (Supporting Information). Evidently, our Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst demonstrates the highest intrinsic activity among all the prepared Pt-based catalysts. Stability is one of the indicators to

assess the activity of the catalyst. As shown in Figure S19 (Supporting Information), the current density of the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst at each potential in 1 m KOH only slightly decreases after 1000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles, proving that the catalyst possesses outstanding cycling stability. In addition, we also perform the *i–t* test at a constant potential (Figure 3g). And the result shows that there is only slight decline in current density after 30 h of continuous testing, indicating the long-term stability of our Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst.

Interestingly, we find that both the low Pt and non-Pt catalysts show significant differences in the polarization curves before and after the CV activation (Figure S20, Supporting Information). We hypothesize that in addition to the Pt species that effectively enhance the catalytic activity of HER, some new active species may be generated during the activation and participate in the HER catalytic process. Therefore, in order to understand the electrocatalytic mechanism of the catalyst in the HER process, a series of characterizations are performed on the postreaction catalyst. XRD pattern of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 after HER process reveals that new characteristic diffraction peaks are attributed to Ni3S2 (JCPDS No.44-1418) (Figure S21, Supporting Information), which demonstrates that the surface -NiS undergoes reconfiguration at the cathodic potential, and the generated Ni3S2 species catalyze the HER together with Pt nanoparticles and -NiS. SEM image shown in Figure S22a (Supporting Information) displays almost no significant change in the morphology of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 after HER, indicating its morphology robustness. Moreover, the chemical nature of the catalyst surface after HER is further characterized by XPS analysis (Figure S22b–d, Supporting Information). The narrow-scan Pt 4f spectrum illustrates the spin-orbit peaks at 72.0 and 75.2 eV, attributed to the Pt 4f7/2 and 4f5/2 of Pt<sup>+</sup>, respectively. And the binding energies centered at 71.4 and 74.4 eV are indexed to Pt 4f7/2 and 4f5/2 of Pt0, respectively. It is evident that the surface Pt species during HER is in the form of Pt–S and Pt–O*<sup>x</sup>* bonds and metallic Pt. Additionally, the characteristic peaks associated with S<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> can still be observed in the S 2p spectrum. And two peaks shown in Ni 2p spectrum at the binding energies of 855.8 and 873.5 eV are ascribed to Ni 2p3/2 and 2p1/2, along with two shakeup satellite peaks located at 861.7 and 879.6 eV.[68]

To elucidate the intrinsic enhanced alkaline HER activity of the obtained Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5 catalyst, comprehensive density functional theory (DFT) calculations are performed to determine the energy barriers in water dissociation step (Volmer step) and subsequent hydrogen desorption process.[69] In Figure 3h and Figure S23 (Supporting Information), the Ni3S2 catalyst exhibits the relative lower energy barrier of water dissociation (1.37 eV) than that on NiS catalyst (1.47 eV), indicating the phase change from NiS to Ni3S2 can benefit the water dissociation step under alkaline conditions. Further, the activation barriers for water dissociation are remarkably reduced to 0.99 and 0.63 eV on Pt-NiS and Pt-Ni3S2 catalysts, respectively, indicating the loaded Pt nanoparticles can facilitate the cleavage of H–OH bonds. In particular, Pt-Ni3S2 catalyst exhibits the lowest water dissociation energy barrier in comparison with other three catalysts, demonstrating that the synergy of loading Pt nanoparticles and phase change greatly enhance water dissociation. After the formation of H\* intermediates in prior water dissociation step, these species are desorbed from the active sites, thus yielding H2 gas. The free energy of adsorbed H\* intermediates (Δ*G*H\*) is a good activity descriptor for the hydrogen generation step. In Figure 3i and Figure S24 (Supporting Information), it can be found that the Δ*G*H\* on all four catalysts are less than 0, which means that the desorption of H\* can be considered as the RDS. The Δ*G*H\* values on NiS and Ni3S2 surfaces are −3.42 and −4.94 eV, respectively, which are much less than that on Pt-NiS (−0.26 eV) and Pt-Ni3S2 (−0.92 eV) surfaces, suggesting that Pt loading could facilitate the hydrogen adsorption/desorption process. Therefore, the loading of Pt nanoparticles on NiS or Ni3S2 surface not only reduces the energy barrier of water dissociation but also facilitates the release of H2 to prevent the block of active sites, demonstrating an efficient synergistic effect toward HER. In addition, the projected density of state (PDOS) analysis (d-orbital) is further investigated to probe the electronic interaction between the H adsorbate and the Ni site of nickel sulfide before and after the Pt loading as well as the phase change.[70,71] As depicted in Figure S25 (Supporting Information), the d-band center (*E*d) relative to Fermi level (*E*f) is calculated. And Pt-NiS exhibits a deeper *E*<sup>d</sup> of −1.94 eV at the Ni site closed to Pt nanoparticles than barNiS (−1.83 eV), which is also revealed from the calculated *E*<sup>d</sup> of Pt-Ni3S2 (−1.67 eV) and Ni3S2 (−1.49 eV). The downshift of the dband center after Pt loading suggests the lower antibonding energy states and the weaken interaction between the H\* intermediates and Ni site, reducing the adsorption energy of H\* intermediates while promoting their desorption, which agrees well with the results of Δ*G*H\*. [72] In a word, the favorable HER performance is attributed to the interaction between Pt and nickel sulfides.

#### **2.3. Urea Oxidation Reaction (UOR)**

Metal sulfides are not only an excellent OER catalyst, but also catalyze the UOR process. In this study, we investigate the UOR activities of NiS@Ni-CNFs and Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs catalysts. As shown in **Figure 4**a, the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst performs an excellent UOR activity in the 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea system under the anodic potential (1.393 V versus RHE at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), showing an advantage of about 200 mV over OER at the same current density (1.589 V versus RHE). Additionally, NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst requires only a low potential of 1.366 V versus RHE to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The polarization curves also show that the applied potential of the UOR process is much lower than that of OER throughout the potential window, indicating that the material is more favorable for UOR catalysis. It further demonstrates that UOR can significantly reduce energy consumption and is an ideal alternative to anodic OER to improve the overall electrocatalytic HER efficiency. Notably, in the OER polarization curve, a clear oxidation peak can be observed at the potential range of around 1.35–1.40 V versus RHE, which corresponds to the electrochemical oxidation (Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>→Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) of Ni-based catalysts in alkaline medium under the anodic potential. And the generated Ni3<sup>+</sup> sites are usually served as the active sites for electrochemical reactions. UOR tests on the prepared Ni-CNFs and Ni@Ni-CNFs samples are performed under the same conditions, as shown in Figure 4b,c. NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst displays the lowest catalytic potential with a Tafel slope of only 12.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is lower than that of the Ni-CNFs (21.2 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1)

**Figure 4.** a) Polarization curves of NiS@Ni-CNFs in 1 m KOH (OER) and 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea (UOR). b) Polarization curves of different catalysts in 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea. c) Corresponding Tafel plots of different catalysts for UOR. d) Comparison of UOR performances between NiS@Ni-CNFs and various reported nickel-based catalysts. e) *i*–*t* curve of NiS@Ni-CNFs for UOR at the potential of 0.46 V versus Hg/HgO electrode. f) Schematic diagram of the in situ Raman device. g) In situ Raman spectra of NiS@Ni-CNFs for OER and UOR processes.

and Ni@Ni-CNFs (19.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) catalysts. Figure 4d also illustrates that the excellent UOR performance of our NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst exceeds many reported electrocatalysts (Table S5, Supporting Information). Notably, the UOR activities of the catalysts loaded with Pt species (Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs) are not significantly enhanced compared with the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst (Figure 4b). The DFT calculations are performed to understand the reason of poor UOR performance of Pt-based catalyst (Figure S26, Supporting Information). It is found that the adsorption energy of urea on NiS surface (−2.52 eV) is more negative than that on Pt-NiS surface (−1.94 eV), indicating that urea is easier to be adsorbed on the Ni-sites of NiS surface. In addition, the strong adsorption of O atom of urea on Pt nanoparticles is detrimental to the contact and dehydrogenation of urea on NiS surface (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Therefore, the obtained NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst is a more suitable UOR catalyst from the perspective of cost saving.

The effect of urea concentration is studied in 1 m KOH electrolyte containing different concentrations of urea. Figure S27 (Supporting Information) displays that the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst reveals the best UOR activity in 0.33 m urea. The catalyst shows poorer UOR performance in a high urea concentration (0.5 m) system, generally resulting from the higher coverage of urea molecules and intermediates on the catalyst surface, which will decrease OH<sup>−</sup> ion around the active sites, and thus reduce the rate of urea oxidation. In addition, excess urea will hydrolyze into CO2, thereby reducing the current density.[73,74] So the electrolytic system of 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea is used throughout the experiments, which is also closer to the urea concentration of human urine. Stability is another crucial criterion for evaluating the UOR

performance of the catalysts. As shown in Figure S28 (Supporting Information), the polarization curves of the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst after 1000 and 2000 CV cycles perform only slight decline, indicating excellent cycling stability of our NiS@Ni-CNFs. Furthermore, the NiS@Ni-CNFs operate stably for 40 h under a continuous potential with a slight current change, signifying the robust UOR stability (Figure 4e). It is noteworthy that after replacing the fresh electrolyte approximately every 10 h or a little more time, the decreased current picks up again, indicating that its current decrease is partially caused by the consumption of urea in the electrolytic system. Similarly, a series of characterizations are performed on the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst after UOR process. The nanofibrous morphology with rough surface can be clearly observed in the SEM image (Figure S29a, Supporting Information), demonstrating the morphology stability of the nanofibers during UOR, which is beneficial to the maintenance of the catalytic activity. XRD pattern also confirms that the -NiS species are well maintained in the post-UOR NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst (Figure S29b, Supporting Information). However, as shown in the narrow-scan XPS spectrum of Ni 2p, the characteristic peaks of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> appear at binding energies of 857.1 and 874.6 eV (Figure S29c, Supporting Information). Since the catalytic reaction is an interfacial reaction, combined with the previous characterization, the -NiS on the surface of NiS@Ni-CNFs may undergo electrochemical reconfiguration during UOR, that is, the conversion from Ni–S to Ni–O bond. The disappearance of the S<sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> characteristic peaks in the S 2p spectrum of the NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst after UOR further confirms the conversion of - NiS (Figure S29d, Supporting Information). Since the XRD pattern is still dominated by -NiS, this partial conversion may only occur at the surface of the catalyst, but this higher valence of Ni3<sup>+</sup> also plays an important role in the enhancement of UOR activity.[39]

Therefore, to figure out the mechanism of UOR, in situ Raman measurements are conducted to monitor the structural transition and the change of surface species of NiS@Ni-CNFs (Figure 4f). As shown in the in situ Raman spectra (Figure 4g), when the applied potential of OER process reaches 0.50 V versus Hg/HgO, a small peak belonging to the bending vibration of Ni3<sup>+</sup>–O in -NiOOH appears at 475 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in the Raman spectrum. As reported in the literatures, Ni-based catalyst is firstly reconstructed to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>–O (Ni(OH)2) in alkaline electrolyte, and then electrochemical oxidized to Ni3<sup>+</sup>–O (-NiOOH), which is usually served as the active site for UOR. However, the absence of Raman signal of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>–O during the UOR process suggests that the newly formed Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>–O is consumed before it can be detected, resulting from the faster UOR kinetics of NiS@Ni-CNFs compared with OER. Thus, it can be inferred that the UOR mechanism of our prepared NiS@Ni-CNFs catalyst follows an indirect route, that is, electrochemical–chemical (E–C) mechanism[75,76]

Electrochemical reaction

$$6\text{Ni}(OH)_2 + 6OH^- \rightleftharpoons 6\text{Ni}OOH + 6H_2O + 6e^-$$
 (3)

Chemical reaction

$$6\text{NiOOH} + \text{CO}(\text{NH}_2)_2 + \text{H}_2\text{O} \rightarrow 6\text{Ni(OH)}_2 + \text{N}_2 + \text{CO}_2$$
 (4)

#### **2.4. Urea-Assisted Water Splitting**

In order to explore the prospective application of our prepared catalysts in practical applications, a simple electrolyzer is assembled to investigate the performance in urea-assisted water splitting. As shown in **Figure 5**a, since the prepared Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs and NiS@Ni-CNFs catalysts possess HER and OER/UOR properties, they are served as cathode and anode, respectively, to establish the overall water splitting and urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzers. First, with 1 m KOH as the electrolyte, the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs||NiS@Ni-CNFs electrolyzer for overall water splitting requires the applied voltages of 1.61 and 1.88 V to achieve current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively (Figure 5b,c); whereas in the electrolyte of 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea, the above electrolyzer only demands the voltages of 1.44 and 1.65 V to afford the same current densities, which is superior to the commercial Pt/C-assembled urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer (1.83 V@100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and many other currently reported electrolyzers (Figure 5c; Table S6, Supporting Information). It can be seen that replacing the anodic OER process with UOR can achieve the required current density at a lower voltage and effectively reduce the energy consumption of H2 production. Notably, the H2 production rate of 0.13 mmol h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is achieved at the voltage of 1.60 V for urea-assisted water splitting, which is 6.5-fold of the overall water splitting with no addition of urea (Figure 5d). In addition, the stability of the urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer is investigated (Figure 5e), and the Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs||NiS@Ni-CNFs electrolyzer exhibits less current decline for 55 h, indicating its excellent stability and promising prospects in practical application.

### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have prepared Pt immobilized NiS-coated nickel-carbon nanofibers (Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs) with favorable HER performance under the alkaline condition. The Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs displays higher mass activity than commercial Pt/C catalyst. Various analyses confirm that the excellent HER activities are beneficial from the Ni nanoparticles embedded carbon substrate to improves the electrical conductivity of catalyst and thus facilitate the charge transfer, the interaction between Pt and NiS to stabilize the Pt species and prevent the aggregation of Pt, and the interfacial synergistic effect among the new species of Ni3S2 generated by surface reconstruction, Pt and NiS species. Furthermore, the assembled urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer offers a low voltage of 1.44 V to deliver the10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which performs a 6.5-fold hydrogen production rate of traditional overall water splitting. This work provides new inspiration to design high-efficiency electrocatalysts to construct urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer to achieve significantly enhanced energysaving H2 production and simultaneous urea-rich wastewater treatment.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Chemicals and Reagents*: Polyacrylonitrile (PAN, *M*<sup>w</sup> = 80 000) was purchased from Jilin Chemical Plant. *N*, *N*-dimethylformamide (DMF) was acquired from Tianjin Tiantai Fine Chemicals Co. Ltd. Nickel(II) acetate

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2024, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelbary.wiley.com/do/10.1002/smll.20234782 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [060]/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 5. a) Digital graph of urea-assisted water splitting electrolyzer at the current density of 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. b) Polarization curves of different electrolyzers for overall water splitting and urea-assisted water splitting. c) Working voltage comparison of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs||NiS@Ni-CNFs electrolyzer for urea-assisted water splitting and overall water splitting. d) Cathodic H<sub>2</sub> evolution at 1.60 V in 1 м КОН with or without 0.33 м urea. e) The i-t curve of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs||NiS@Ni-CNFs electrolyzer and comparison of the urea-assisted water splitting activity for Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs||NiS@Ni-CNFs with other reported similar electrolyzers. The arrows in (e) indicate the fluctuation arising from the replacement of electrolyte.

tetrahydrate (Ni(CH<sub>3</sub>COO)<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O) was obtained from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. Nickel sulfate hexahydrate (NiSO<sub>4</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O), sodium citrate (C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>5</sub>Na<sub>3</sub>O<sub>7</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O) and thiourea were purchased from Beijing Chemical Works. Chloroplatinic acid hexahydrate (H2PtCl6·6H2O) was provided by Aladdin. Commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) and Nafion solution (5%) were available from Johnson Matthey and Sigma-Aldrich, respectively.

Preparation of Ni-Carbon Nanofibers (CNFs): The Ni-CNFs were prepared from electrospinning technology with subsequent high-temperature pyrolysis. First, 300 mg of PAN powder was added into DMF under 90 °C to obtain a polymer solution with the PAN mass ratio of 5.5 wt%. After cooling down to the ambient temperature, 450 mg of Ni(CH<sub>2</sub>COO)<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O was added into the above polymer solution under continuous stirring to form a homogeneous electrospinning precursor. Then, the electrospinning process was performed with a voltage power supply of 16 kV at a needle-collector distance of 20 cm. The obtained light green Ni precursor-PAN membranes were preoxidized in air at 240 °C for 2 h and then completely pyrolyzed at 800 °C for 2 h under Ar atmosphere. The flexible black Ni-CNFs membrane was finally obtained.

Preparation of NiS@Ni-CNFs: The electrodeposition process was carried out by using a typical three-electrode configuration, in which the prepared flexible Ni-CNFs (1 cm  $\times$  1 cm), saturated calomel electrode (SCE) and graphite rods were served as working electrode, reference electrode and counter electrode, respectively. And 20 mL of aqueous solution containing 368 mg of NiSO<sub>4</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and 200 mg of sodium citrate was used as the electrodeposition electrolyte. An optional reaction current of -10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup> was held for 15 min at ambient temperature. The obtained Ni@Ni-CNFs membranes were washed by DI water and ethanol for several times followed by drying at 45 °C in an oven. Subsequently, 10 mg of Ni@Ni-CNFs was immersed into 30 mL of aqueous solution containing 1.6 mmol of thiourea. After shaking for at least 30 min, the mixture was transferred into a Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and reacted at 200 °C for 12 h. The resultant products were washed with DI water and ethanol for several times, and then dried in an oven to obtain NiS@Ni-CNFs.

Preparation of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs: The Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs were firstly prepared from a simple adsorption method. 5 mg of NiS@Ni-CNFs were immersed into 5 mL of H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O aqueous solution with different concentrations for 12 h. And the concentration of H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O was set to 0.5, 1, 2.5, and 5  $\times$  10<sup>-3</sup> M, respectively. The samples were rinsed and dried for further use, which were denoted as Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5, Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1, Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5, and Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs-5, respectively. Finally, the Pt(IV)-NiS@Ni-CNFs samples were annealed at 200 °C for 2 h under 5% H<sub>2</sub>/Ar flow to reduce the Pt atoms. The corresponding samples were named as Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-0.5, Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-1, Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-2.5, and Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-5, respectively. Besides, NiS@Ni-CNFs sample with no Pt addition underwent a same reduction process to form another control sample named H-NiS@Ni-CNFs.

Characterizations: The morphological characteristics of the prepared samples were studied by FE-SEM (FEI Nova NanoSEM450) and TEM (JEOL JEM-2100). The FEI Tecnai G2 F20 electron microscope was used to perform the HRTEM images, EDX patterns, SAED patterns, and elemental mapping analyses of Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs and NiS@Ni-CNFs. The crystal type of the prepared samples was confirmed through XRD analysis by using PANalytical B.V. Empyream. Moreover, the XPS were recorded on the Thermo Fisher 250xi spectrometer to analyze the surface oxidation states of the as-prepared samples. ICP-OES measurement (Agilent 725) was carried out to estimate the weight percentage of Pt in the catalyst. Raman spectra of the powders were collected on LabRAM HR Evolution measurement and the in situ Raman spectra were recorded with an inverted Raman spectroscopy system, which combines a PI spectrometer (PIX2560-SF-Q), 532 nm laser (MSL-III-532nm-100Mw-19021075) and Olympus inverted microscope (IX73)

Electrochemical Experiments: The electrochemical experiments were conducted on the CHI 760E electrochemical working station. The investigation of each half-reaction was carried out by using a three-electrode configuration, in which the catalyst-coated carbon paper and calibrated

Hg/HgO electrode were served as working electrode and reference electrode, respectively. In addition, a graphite rod was employed as counter electrode for HER, while a Pt wire was used for OER and UOR. The electrolyte varied according to the reaction, with HER and OER performing in 1 m KOH and UOR in 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea. To prepare the working electrode, 4 mg of catalyst was first added into 1 mL of ethanol containing 20 μL of Nafion solution, and then sonicated and dispersed for at least 30 min to obtain a uniformly dispersed catalyst ink. Subsequently, 100 μL of catalyst ink was evenly dropped onto a carbon paper with a mass loading of 2 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2. All the tested potentials are converted to theRHE according to the Nernst equation: *E*RHE = *E*Hg/HgO + 0.927 V. The polarization curves were obtained by LSV with a scan rate of 2 mV s<sup>−</sup>1, prior to which CV was used to activate and stabilize the working electrode. EIS for HER was tested at an initial potential of −1.1 V versus Hg/HgO electrode in a frequency range from 10 kHz to 0.1 Hz with the amplitude of the sinusoidal perturbation fixed at 5 mV. Unless otherwise specified, the polarization curves obtained by the LSV method were corrected for 100% *iR*compensation according to the following equation: *E*correction = *E*experiment – *iR*<sup>s</sup> (*R*<sup>s</sup> is the solution resistance obtained from the EIS test). The *i*–*t* tests for HER and UOR were conducted at the requested potentials using catalyst-coated nickel foams as the working electrodes (0.4 cm × 0.5 cm, catalyst mass loading of 4 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2).

A two-electrode system was used to carry out the urea-assisted water splitting. Nickel foam (0.4 cm × 0.5 cm) was used as the support for the working electrode, where Pt-NiS@Ni-CNFs-coated nickel foam was served as the cathode and NiS@Ni-CNFs-coated nickel foam was used as the anode with mass loading of 4 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2. In the electrolytes of 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea, the polarization curves were obtained by using the LSV method at a scan rate of 2 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. In addition, the stability test of the electrolyzer was performed at a certain voltage in 1 m KOH/0.33 m urea.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

M.Z. and J.Y. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51973079) and Science and Technology Development of Jilin Province, China (20220402008GH).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

electrospinning, nickel sulfide, platinum, synergistic effect, urea-assisted water splitting

> Received: July 11, 2023 Revised: August 8, 2023 Published online: August 30, 2023

- [1] B. Xiong, L. Chen, J. Shi, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 3688.
- [2] C. Gu, G. Zhou, J. Yang, H. Pang, M. Zhang, Q. Zhao, X. Gu, S. Tian, J. Zhang, L. Xu, Y. Tang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *443*, 136321.
- [3] L. Lin, P. Sherrell, Y. Liu, W. Lei, S. Zhang, H. Zhang, G. G. Wallace, J. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903870.
- [4] M. Zhong, N. Song, C. Li, C. Wang, W. Chen, X. Lu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *614*, 556.
- [5] S. T. Wismann, J. S. Engbæk, S. B. Vendelbo, F. B. Bendixen, W. L. Eriksen, K. Aasberg-Petersen, C. Frandsen, I. Chorkendorff, P. M. Mortensen, *Science* **2019**, *364*, 756.
- [6] C. McGlade, P. Ekins, *Nature* **2015**, *517*, 187.
- [7] Z. Sun, G. Wang, S. W. Koh, J. Ge, H. Zhao, W. Hong, J. Fei, Y. Zhao, P. Gao, H. Miao, H. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2002138.
- [8] M. Zhong, W. Li, J. Chen, S. Ren, R. Qi, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Sep. Purif. Technol.* **2023**, *310*, 123164.
- [9] A. Pei, R. Xie, Y. Zhang, Y. Feng, W. Wang, S. Zhang, Z. Huang, L. Zhu, G. Chai, Z. Yang, Q. Gao, H. Ye, C. Shang, B. H. Chen, Z. Guo, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 1035.
- [10] R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K. C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 550.
- [11] S. L. Zhang, B. Y. Guan, X. F. Lu, S. Xi, Y. Du, X. W. D. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002235.
- [12] Q. Shao, P. Wang, T. Zhu, X. Huang, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2019**, *52*, 3384.
- [13] M. Li, K. Duanmu, C. Wan, T. Cheng, L. Zhang, S. Dai, W. Chen, Z. Zhao, P. Li, H. Fei, Y. Zhu, R. Yu, J. Luo, K. Zang, Z. Lin, M. Ding, J. Huang, H. Sun, J. Guo, X. Pan, W. A. Goddard, P. Sautet, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 495.
- [14] C. Li, Z. Chen, H. Yi, Y. Cao, L. Du, Y. Hu, F. Kong, R. Kramer Campen, Y. Gao, C. Du, G. Yin, I. Y. Zhang, Y. Tong, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 15902.
- [15] M. Zhong, S. Yan, J. Xu, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2022**, *9*, 4881.
- [16] J. Xu, M. Zhong, N. Song, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2023**, *34*, 107359.
- [17] Y. Wang, L. Chen, X. Yu, Y. Wang, G. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1601390.
- [18] X. Zheng, P. Cui, Y. Qian, G. Zhao, X. Zheng, X. Xu, Z. Cheng, Y. Liu, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 14533.
- [19] K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang, H. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3783.
- [20] Y. Wu, W. Wei, R. Yu, L. Xia, X. Hong, J. Zhu, J. Li, L. Lv, W. Chen, Y. Zhao, L. Zhou, L. Mai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2110910.
- [21] S. Anantharaj, P. E. Karthik, B. Subramanian, S. Kundu, *ACS Catal.*
- **2016**, *6*, 4660. [22] X. Chen, S. Yan, S. Wen, J. Chen, J. Xu, C. Wang, X. Lu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *641*, 782.
- [23] S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z. P. Wu, D. Luan, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem.,*
- *Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19068. [24] Z. Ma, H. Tian, G. Meng, L. Peng, Y. Chen, C. Chen, Z. Chang, X. Cui, L. Wang, W. Jiang, J. Shi, *Sci. China Mater.* **2020**, *63*, 2517.
- [25] W. Li, M. Li, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Sci. China Mater.* **2023**, *66*, 1024.
- [26] Z. Li, W. Niu, Z. Yang, A. Kara, Q. Wang, M. Wang, M. Gu, Z. Feng, Y. Du, Y. Yang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3110.
- [27] X. Chen, W. Liao, M. Zhong, J. Chen, S. Yan, W. Li, C. Wang, W. Chen, X. Lu, *Nano Res.* **2023**, *16*, 7724.
- [28] W. Chen, B. Wu, Y. Wang, W. Zhou, Y. Li, T. Liu, C. Xie, L. Xu, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, Y. liu, Y. Li, J. Liu, Y. Zou, R. Chen, C. Chen, J. Zheng, Y. Li, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6428.
- [29] D. Li, X. Chen, Y. Lv, G. Zhang, Y. Huang, W. Liu, Y. Li, R. Chen, C. Nuckolls, H. Ni, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2020**, *269*, 118824.
- [30] Z. Xing, C. Han, D. Wang, Q. Li, X. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 7131.

- [31] H. Yang, P. Guo, R. Wang, Z. Chen, H. Xu, H. Pan, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107548.
- [32] L. Sha, T. Liu, K. Ye, K. Zhu, J. Yan, J. Yin, G. Wang, D. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 18055.
- [33] X. Han, X. Wu, Y. Deng, J. Liu, J. Lu, C. Zhong, W. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1800935.
- [34] M. Li, Y. Zhu, H. Wang, C. Wang, N. Pinna, X. Lu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1803185.
- [35] M. Lao, K. Rui, G. Zhao, P. Cui, X. Zheng, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 5432.
- [36] H. Yin, S. Zhao, K. Zhao, A. Muqsit, H. Tang, L. Chang, H. Zhao, Y. Gao, Z. Tang, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6430.
- [37] J. Joo, T. Kim, J. Lee, S. I. Choi, K. Lee, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806682.
- [38] K. Jayaramulu, J. Masa, O. Tomanec, D. Peeters, V. Ranc, A. Schneemann, R. Zboril, W. Schuhmann, R. A. Fischer, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1700451.
- [39] Y. Guo, T. Park, J. W. Yi, J. Henzie, J. Kim, Z. Wang, B. Jiang, Y. Bando, Y. Sugahara, J. Tang, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807134.
- [40] W. Li, M. Zhong, X. Chen, S. Ren, S. Yan, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Sci. China Mater.* **2023**, *66*, 2235.
- [41] M. Chen, Q. Su, N. Kitiphatpiboon, J. Zhang, C. Feng, S. Li, Q. Zhao, A. Abudula, Y. Ma, G. Guan, *Fuel* **2023**, *331*, 125794.
- [42] B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 13639.
- [43] W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Xiao, Z. Wei, S. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. Ma, S. Wang, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 2974.
- [44] J. Na, B. Seo, J. Kim, C. W. Lee, H. Lee, Y. J. Hwang, B. K. Min, D. K. Lee, H. S. Oh, U. Lee, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5193.
- [45] Y. Ding, X. Du, X. Zhang, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *584*, 152622.
- [46] M. Zhong, W. Li, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *575*, 151708.
- [47] Z. Liu, C. Zhang, H. Liu, L. Feng, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2020**, *276*, 119165.
- [48] B. Zhu, Z. Liang, R. Zou, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906133.
- [49] J. Li, S. Wang, S. Sun, X. Wu, B. Zhang, L. Feng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 9308.
- [50] L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 10577.
- [51] Q. Zhang, F. M. D. Kazim, S. Ma, K. Qu, M. Li, Y. Wang, H. Hu, W. Cai, Z. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2021**, *280*, 119436.
- [52] K. S. Anuratha, M. Rinawati, T.-H. Wu, M.-H. Yeh, J.-Y. Lin, *Nanomaterials* **2022**, *12*, 2970.
- [53] A. Mosallanezhad, C. Wei, P. Ahmadian Koudakan, Y. Fang, S. Niu, Z. Bian, B. Liu, T. Huang, H. Pan, G. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2022**, *315*, 121534.
- [54] B. Zhou, Y. Li, Y. Zou, W. Chen, W. Zhou, M. Song, Y. Wu, Y. Lu, J. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22908.

- [55] X. Shi, C. Dai, X. Wang, J. Hu, J. Zhang, L. Zheng, L. Mao, H. Zheng, M. Zhu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1287.
- [56] P. Luo, H. Zhang, L. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Deng, C. Xu, N. Hu, Y. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 2500.
- [57] F. Mingli, L. Xue, W. Dandan, W. Yinling, L. Maoguo, *Electrochim. Acta* **2019**, *328*, 135075.
- [58] W. Li, H. Zhao, H. Li, R. Wang, *Nanoscale Adv.* **2022**, *4*, 1220.
- [59] C. Panda, P. W. Menezes, S. Yao, J. Schmidt, C. Walter, J. N. Hausmann, M. Driess, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 13306.
- [60] K. Srinivas, Y. Chen, X. Wang, B. Wang, M. Karpuraranjith, W. Wang, Z. Su, W. Zhang, D. Yang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 1920.
- [61] J. Yan, Z. Fan, W. Sun, G. Ning, T. Wei, Q. Zhang, R. Zhang, L. Zhi, F. Wei, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2012**, *22*, 2632.
- [62] B. Tang, X. Yang, Z. Kang, L. Feng, *Appl. Catal. B:Environ.* **2020**, *278*, 119281.
- [63] K. Zhang, Y. Duan, N. Graham, W. Yu, *Appl. Catal. B:Environ.* **2023**, *323*, 122144.
- [64] C. Dai, B. Li, J. Li, B. Zhao, R. Wu, H. Ma, X. Duan, *Nano Res.* **2020**, *13*, 2506.
- [65] B. Xu, I.-S. Park, Y. Li, D.-J. Chen, Y. J. Tong, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2011**, *662*, 52.
- [66] H. Wang, L. Ouyang, G. Zou, C. Sun, J. Hu, X. Xiao, L. Gao, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 9529.
- [67] D. Voiry, M. Chhowalla, Y. Gogotsi, N. A. Kotov, Y. Li, R. M. Penner, R. E. Schaak, P. S. Weiss, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 9635.
- [68] Y. Zhou, Y. Wang, D. Kong, Q. Zhao, L. Zhao, J. Zhang, X. Chen, Y. Li, Y. Xu, C. Meng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *33*, 2210656.
- [69] Z. Chen, Y. Xu, D. Ding, G. Song, X. Gan, H. Li, W. Wei, J. Chen, Z. Li, Z. Gong, X. Dong, C. Zhu, N. Yang, J. Ma, R. Gao, D. Luo, S. Cong, L. Wang, Z. Zhao, Y. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 763.
- [70] Z. Wang, Z. Lin, J. Deng, S. Shen, F. Meng, J. Zhang, Q. Zhang, W. Zhong, L. Gu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2003023.
- [71] G. Cao, X. Li, R. Duan, K. Xu, K. Zhang, L. Chen, Q. Jiang, J. Li, J. Wang, M. Li, N. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Xi, C. Xie, W. Li, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *116*, 108755.
- [72] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 5076.
- [73] L. Sha, K. Ye, J. Yin, K. Zhu, K. Cheng, J. Yan, G. Wang, D. Cao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *381*, 122603.
- [74] V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2012**, *81*, 292.
- [75] V. Vedharathinam, G. G. Botte, *Electrochim. Acta* **2013**, *108*, 660.
- [76] F. Guo, K. Ye, M. Du, X. Huang, K. Cheng, G. Wang, D. Cao, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *210*, 474.