---
source: Aijaz 等 - 2017 - MOF‐Templated Assembly Approach for Fe3 C Nanoparticles Encapsulated in Bamboo‐Like N‐Dop.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 76.357s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:29:29.723673Z
---

## ■ Carbon Nanotubes

## MOF-Templated Assembly Approach for Fe<sub>3</sub>C Nanoparticles **Encapsulated in Bamboo-Like N-Doped CNTs: Highly Efficient** Oxygen Reduction under Acidic and Basic Conditions

Arshad Aijaz, [a] Justus Masa, [c] Christoph Rösler, [d] Hendrik Antoni, [a] Roland A. Fischer, [e, f] Wolfgang Schuhmann,\*[c] and Martin Muhler\*[a, b]

**Abstract:** Developing high-performance non-precious metal catalysts (NPMCs) for the oxygen-reduction reaction (ORR) is of critical importance for sustainable energy conversion. We report a novel NPMC consisting of iron carbide (Fe<sub>3</sub>C) nanoparticles encapsulated in N-doped bamboo-like carbon nanotubes (b-NCNTs), synthesized by a new metal-organic framework (MOF)-templated assembly approach. The electrocatalyst exhibits excellent ORR activity in  $0.1\,\mathrm{M}$  KOH  $(0.89\,\mathrm{V}$  at  $-1\,\mathrm{mA\,cm^{-2}})$  and in  $0.5\,\mathrm{M}$  $H_2SO_4$  (0.73 V at  $-1 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ) with a hydrogen peroxide yield of below 1% in both electrolytes. Due to encapsulation of the Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles inside porous b-NCNTs, the reported NPMC retains its high ORR activity after around 70 hours in both alkaline and acidic media.

The oxygen-reduction reaction (ORR) is a key process in fuel cells and metal-air batteries.<sup>[1]</sup> The current state-of-the-art catalysts for this sluggish cathodic reaction are based on platinum and its alloys. [2] However, the limited availability, high cost, and

- [a] Dr. A. Aijaz, H. Antoni, Prof. Dr. M. Muhler Laboratory of Industrial Chemistry Ruhr-University Bochum, 44780 Bochum (Germany) E-mail: muhler@techem.rub.de
- [b] Prof. Dr. M. Muhler Max Planck Institute for Chemical Energy Conversion 45470 Mülheim an der Ruhr (Germany)
- [c] Dr. J. Masa, Prof. Dr. W. Schuhmann Analytical Chemistry-Center for Electrochemical Sciences (CFS) Ruhr-University Bochum, 44780 Bochum (Germany) E-mail: wolfaana.schuhmann@rub.de
- Anorganische Chemie II, Organometallics & Materials Ruhr-University Bochum, 44780 Bochum (Germany)
- [e] Prof. Dr. R. A. Fischer Department of Chemistry, Technical University Munich Lichtenbergstrasse 4, 85748 Garching (Germany)
- [f] Prof. Dr. R. A. Fischer Catalysis Research Centre, Technical University Munich Ernst-Otto-Fischer-Strasse 1, 85748 Garchina (Germany)
- Supporting Information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/

Part of a Special Issue to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the German Chemical Society (GDCh). To view the complete issue, visit https://doi.org/ chem v23 50

insufficient durability of platinum preclude its long-term widescale use. In recent years, non-precious metal catalysts (NPMCs), especially metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C, M=Co, Fe, or Mn), have drawn much attention owing to their low cost and high catalytic ORR activity.[3,4] NPMCs are very promising catalysts under harsh ORR conditions, but need further improvement in terms of synthetic approach and durability. Very few NPMCs have been found to have sufficient ORR activity and stability in the more challenging acidic media. [5,6] Therefore, platinum is still the most-used ORR catalyst.

The use of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) as self-sacrificial templates for porous carbon was first reported in 2008 by Xu et al., [7d] resulting in an enormous upsurge of interest in MOF-derived nanostructured materials for energy storage and conversion applications.<sup>[7]</sup> MOF-derived NPMCs often exhibit large surface area and hierarchical porous structures, which are essential for high ORR performance.[8] Recently, NPMCs based on iron carbide (Fe<sub>3</sub>C) encapsulated in carbon nanostructures have been reported to be very active towards the ORR.[3,5] For example, Yu and co-workers synthesized Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles encapsulated in porous Fe-N-doped carbon fibers exhibiting high ORR activity.[5a] Jia and Guo et al. found that bamboo-like carbon nanotube (CNT)/Fe<sub>3</sub>C composites had excellent ORR activity in both alkaline and acidic media. [5b] Li and co-workers demonstrated very efficient ORR electrocatalysis using hollow spheres of Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles encased in graphitic layers. [5c] Encapsulating metal nanoparticles inside carbon structures provides a unique synergistic effect, which also activates the adjacent atoms surrounding the nanoparticle, and the outer surface carbon atoms for the ORR.[9] In addition, encapsulation provides resistance against corrosion of the metal nanoparticles, especially in acidic electrolytes, which is a necessary prerequisite to ensure long-term performance. [10] Very few studies have reported the synthesis of Fe<sub>3</sub>C-based catalysts from MOF precursors, probably because of two reasons. Firstly, carbonization of the Fe-MOF mostly leads to a mixed-phase product such as Fe<sub>3</sub>C, iron oxide, or metallic iron; <sup>[11]</sup> this complicates unambiguous identification of the true active sites for the ORR. Secondly, the prepared catalysts do not have well-defined nanostructures.[12] Hence, new synthesis strategies are needed to explore the potential of MOF-derived nanostructured Feelectrocatalysts. Herein, we report a new MOF-template-assembly strategy for the synthesis of a new NPMC consisting of Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles encapsulated in porous bamboo-like Ndoped carbon nanotubes. The as-synthesized catalyst possess-

es the desired features for efficient ORR, including intrinsic active sites (in the forms of Fe3C@carbon, Fe@N<sup>x</sup> /C, or N-doped carbon), high surface area, and nanoporous structure; as well as a highly graphitic bamboo-like carbon framework. As a result, the electrocatalyst showed excellent ORR activity and stability in both alkaline and acidic media.

In a typical synthesis, 1.0 g of ZIF-8 (preactivated at 2008C under vacuum), and 1.0 g of pyrrole were thoroughly mixed, followed by dropwise addition of an aqueous solution of FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O (6.0 mL, 0.1m) over a period of roughly 3 hours. This led to polymerization of the pyrrole residing inside and outside of the ZIF-8 pores, and coordination of the pyrrole nitrogen atom to Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> . ZIF-8 was deliberately chosen because this N-containing Zn-MOF is known for its high thermal and chemical stability, as well as its large surface area with a 1.2 nm cavity size. The resulting homogeneous mixture was left to dry overnight at room temperature. The obtained powder was pyrolyzed at a rate of 5 8Cmin@<sup>1</sup> to 800 8C in an N<sup>2</sup> atmosphere, and kept at this temperature for 2 hours. The resulting catalyst is denoted as Fe3C/b-NCNT, in which b-NCNT refers to bamboo-like nitrogen-doped carbon nanotube.

The powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) pattern of Fe3C/b-NCNT displayed a strong peak around 26.58 assigned to the (002) reflection of graphitic carbon, in agreement with the structure of multi-walled CNTs (Figure 1 a). The other peaks in Figure 1 a located at 37.8, 43.1, 43.1, 43.9, 44.9, 46.0, 48.7, and 49.38 correspond to the Fe3C phase. No diffraction pattern corresponding to zinc was observed, due to the formation of amorphous zinc metal followed by its vaporization, [8g] although residual 2.8 wt% zinc was found by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis of Fe3C/b-NCNT revealed typical features of b-NCNTs with a diameter of 50–100 nm (Figures 1 b, 1 c, S1, and S2). Small Fe3C nano-

Figure 1. a) PXRD pattern. b) SEM image and c) TEM image of Fe3C/b-NCNT. d) High-resolution HAADF-STEM image of a single Fe3C nanoparticle in Fe3C/ b-NCNT. e) HAADF-STEM image and f–h) EDS elemental mappings of Fe3C/ b-NCNT.

particles, visible as black dots in Figure 1 c, were distributed mainly within b-NCNTs. High-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) further identified the encapsulated black particles in b-NCNTs as iron carbide with a lattice distance of 0.21 nm, corresponding to the (211) crystal planes of Fe3C (Figure 1 d). Selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns also demonstrated the presence of crystalline Fe3C (Figure S3). Careful evaluation of the HAADF-STEM images revealed the porous and hollow nature of the b-NCNTs (Figure 1 e). We further investigated the elemental distribution in Fe3C/b-NCNT using HAADF-STEM and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) techniques, which indicated the presence of C, N, and Fe (Figures 1 f–h). Notably, except for the nanoparticle regions, all elements were homogeneously distributed in the Fe3C/b-NCNT sample. High uniformity of the Fe species in the b-NCNT matrix was observed at the atomic level, and the Fe and N intensities coincided with each other to a significant degree, suggesting that there are probably Fe species stabilized by Ncoordination (so-called Fe@N<sup>x</sup> sites), which are commonly assumed to be active sites for the ORR.[5a] In the nanoparticle region, the strong Fe signals and weak C signals were observed simultaneously, which possibly indicates the iron carbide phase. Indeed, PXRD measurement confirmed that the nanoparticles in Fe3C/b-NCNT are pure Fe3C.

The porous nature of Fe3C/b-NCNT was further assessed by N2 -sorption analysis. Figure 2 a shows typical adsorption-desorption isotherms for samples with both micro- and mesopores. The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area and pore volume were 185 m<sup>2</sup>g @1 and 0.35 cm<sup>3</sup>g @1 , respectively, with a pore size distribution mainly centered at 3.7 nm (Fig-

Figure 2. a) N<sup>2</sup> sorption isotherms. b) Raman spectrum. c) N 1 s XPS spectrum and d) Fe 2 p XPS spectrum for Fe3C/b-NCNT.

ure S4). The elemental composition and graphitic nature of Fe3C/b-NCNT were evaluated by ICP-MS analysis and Raman spectroscopy, respectively. The amount of Fe and N in Fe3C/ b-NCNT was 7.1 and 8.6 wt%, respectively. The D (1360 cm@<sup>1</sup> ) and G (1590 cm@<sup>1</sup> ) bands in the Raman spectrum provide information about the defect density and crystallinity of the sp<sup>2</sup> carbon. Fe3C/b-NCNT showed an ID/I<sup>G</sup> value of 1.09, indicating a high degree of graphitization in agreement with the PXRD results (Figure 2 b). The porous and graphitic nature of Fe3C/ b-NCNT are favorable for rapid diffusion and enhanced electrical conductivity, respectively.

High-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were conducted to elucidate the surface properties of Fe3C/b-NCNT. The deconvoluted N 1 s spectrum showed 4 peaks, assigned to pyridinic N (398.5 eV), pyrrolic N (400.4 eV), graphitic N (401.7 eV), and oxidized N (404.2 eV) (Figure 2 c). The peak at a binding energy of 398.5 eV also includes some contribution from N bound to iron (N@Fe), because there is only a small difference between the binding energies of pyridinic N and N@Fe.[5a] The amount of pyridinic N was determined to be about 59%. The Fe 2 p3/2 and Fe 2 p1/2 signals were centered at 710.7 eV and 723.4 eV, respectively (Figure 2 d). Deconvolution of the Fe 2 p3/2 region suggests the presence of Fe3C (or metallic Fe) (707.8 eV).[3b] The main peak at 710.7 eV strongly supports the EDS and elemental analysis results that suggest Fe is present as N@coordinated Fe in the Fe3C/b-NCNT sample.[3b,13] It must be noted that the peak at 710.7 eV assigned to Fe@N<sup>x</sup> in Fe3C/b-NCNT shows a 0.7 eV higher binding energy compared to the standard values (&710 eV). [3b,13] This shift suggests a lower electron density on the Fe atoms, which could originate from the interaction of Fe@N<sup>x</sup> and Fe3C nanoparticles.[3b] Recent reports have demonstrated that a high proportion of pyridinic N can increase the spin density and the density of p-states of the carbon atoms near the Fermi level, thus enhancing O<sup>2</sup> reduction. [14] Therefore, a high amount of pyridinic N together with highly dispersed Fe@N<sup>x</sup> active sites in Fe3C/b-NCNT is expected to enhance the intrinsic ORR activity.

The structure of Fe3C/b-NCNT can therefore be described as crystalline Fe3C nanoparticles that are entirely encapsulated in highly graphitic N and Fe@N<sup>x</sup> -doped porous bamboo-like carbon nanotubes. Previous studies showed that despite the fact that the encapsulated Fe3C nanoparticles are shielded from direct contact with electrolytes, they are able to activate surrounding graphitic carbon for the ORR,[5c,9] most likely through electronic interaction. Therefore, the unique confinement of Fe3C nanoparticles within graphitic porous b-NCNTs is believed to efficiently improve ORR electrocatalysis. Additionally, synergistic interaction between the two species Fe@N<sup>x</sup> and Fe3C can further enhance ORR activity. To the best of our knowledge, this is a rare report of homogeneous bamboo-like CNTs based on a MOF as a precursor.

A possible mechanism of the formation of Fe3C/b-NCNT is suggested in Figure 3. The final carbonization temperature required to form hollow b-NCNTs is critical. At 6008C, the ZIF-8 structure collapses to generate carbon only. At 700 8C, a onedimensional carbon structure is formed. TEM images confirm

Figure 3. TEM images of samples synthesized a) at 8008C; b) at 900 8C; and c) at 8008C using a lower Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> content. d) Schematic representation of Fe3C/ b-NCNT formation.

that the assembled carbon structure was not hollow in nature, and carbon particles were mostly connected in a one-dimensional chain (Figure 3 a). Increasing the temperature to 8008C led to homogeneous Fe3C/b-NCNT (Figure 1 b), whereas a higher carbonization temperature (900 8C) only produced collapsed Fe3C/b-NCNT nanostructures (Figure 3 b). The sample prepared without using ZIF-8 did not produce any CNTs (Figure S5). The mechanism of formation of the porous hollow b-NCNTs at 800 8C was further investigated by adjusting the iron content, because iron is known to catalyze CNT formation. [15] As shown in Figure 3 c, hollow carbon capsules were generated at 800 8C when a lower amount of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> was used (2 mL of 0.1m FeCl<sup>3</sup> ·6H2O). These findings suggest that the composite of polypyrrole with ZIF-8 synergistically produced the hollow structure at 800 8C, and required a sufficient amount of iron to catalyze homogeneous growth of the b-NCNTs. A similar coupling and conversion of hollow structures into b-NCNTs has been observed recently. [5b] Therefore, we conclude that the pyrolysis protocol, the polypyrrole/ZIF-8 composite, an effective release (vaporization) of the zinc byproduct, and the adjusted iron content are altogether responsible for the formation of the novel Fe3C/b-NCNT catalyst.

The ORR activity of Fe3C/b-NCNT was assessed in both alkaline and acidic electrolytes using rotating-disk-electrode (RDE) and rotating-ring-disk-electrode (RRDE) techniques. To perform these tests, 0.42 mgcm@<sup>2</sup> of Fe3C/b-NCNT was loaded onto the surface of a glassy carbon electrode. As shown in Figure 4 a, Fe3C/b-NCNT displayed an impressive ORR activity in 0.1m KOH, with a 0.96 V onset potential, and 0.83 V at a current density of @3 mA cm @2 . This performance is very close to that of a commercially available state-of-art 20% Pt/C catalyst (Pt-ETEK), which produced a potential of 0.86 V at a current density of @3 mA cm @2 . These data are comparable to the previous activity benchmarks of Fe3C-based ORR electrocatalysts.[3,5] Moreover, extremely low H2O<sup>2</sup> oxidation currents were detected at the ring in the RRDE measurements corresponding to

**Figure 4.** a) Voltammograms of Fe $_3$ C/b-NCNT and 20 wt% Pt/C. b) Rotating ring-disk voltammogram showing the hydrogen peroxide ring current (below) and the electron transfer number (n; above) of Fe $_3$ C/b-NCNT. c) Tafel plots of Fe $_3$ C/b-NCNT and 20 wt% Pt/C. d) Chronoamperometric ORR stability measurement of Fe $_3$ C/b-NCNT at 0.78 V vs. RHE. All measurements were obtained in O $_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm, except the chronoamperometric stability measurement, which was performed at 900 rpm. The catalyst loading was 0.42 mg cm $^{-2}$  for Fe $_3$ C/b-NCNT and 0.21 mg cm $^{-2}$  (42  $\mu$ g/ $_{(Pt)}$ cm $^{-2}$ ) for Pt/C. The scan rate was 5 mV s $^{-1}$ 

less than 1% H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield at all potentials (Figure 4b), which is much lower compared to previously reported benchmark Fe<sub>3</sub>C-based NPMC. [5b] The number of electrons transferred per O2 molecule (n) during the ORR was calculated to be close to 4, suggesting a predominantly four electron oxygen-reduction pathway, producing water as the main product (Figure 4b). Tafel plots of the kinetic currents, corrected for the background and mass transport effects, yielded a Tafel slope of 71.2 mV decade<sup>-1</sup> for F<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT at low overpotentials, close to  $62.9 \; \text{mV} \, \text{decade}^{-1} \; \text{for} \; 20 \, \% \; \text{Pt/C} \; \text{catalyst} \; \text{(Figure 4 c)}. \; \text{These Tafel}$ slopes do not vary significantly from low to high overpotentials, suggesting that the mechanism of oxygen reduction with Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT in 0.1 M KOH follows a similar mechanism as to that with Pt/C. Therefore, corresponding to the known ORR processes on Pt/C, the transfer of the first electron is most probably the rate-determining step of the ORR on Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT.[5c] Chronoamperometric stability evaluation (at 0.78 V vs. a reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) showed no significant loss in ORR activity after  $\approx$  70 hours of continuous measurement, indicating that Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT is able to sustain a stable ORR performance over a long period of time (Figure 4d).

Furthermore, we evaluated the ORR performance of  $Fe_3C/b$ -NCNT in 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4$  (Figure 5). The ORR polarization curve of  $Fe_3C/b$ -NCNT exhibited a potential of 0.63 V at a current

**Figure 5.** a) Voltammograms of Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT and 20 wt % Pt/C. b) Hydrogen peroxide ring current (below) and electron transfer number (n; above) of Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT. c) Tafel plots of Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT and 20 wt % Pt/C. d) Chronoamperometric ORR stability measurement of Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT at 0.61 V vs. RHE. All measurements were obtained in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm, except the chronoamperometric stability measurement which was performed at 900 rpm. The catalyst loading was 0.42 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> for Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT and 0.21 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> (42  $\mu$ g(Pt) cm<sup>-2</sup>) for Pt/C. The scan rate was 5 mVs<sup>-1</sup>.

density of  $-3 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ . In contrast, the potential at −3 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> obtained with 20% Pt/C was 0.75 V (Figure 5a). The H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield during ORR on Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> was below 1% over the entire investigated potential range (Figure 5 b), which is lower than in 0.1 м КОН. The very low H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield indicates that this catalyst reduces O2 nearly exclusively to H<sub>2</sub>O through the 4-electron transfer process. Kinetic currents derived from the curves in Figure 5a generated Tafel plots of Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT and 20% Pt/C are shown in Figure 5 c. Although the hydrogen peroxide generation curves are similar in both 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, the Tafel slope of the ORR on Fe<sub>3</sub>C/ b-NCNT in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> varied significantly, from 27 mV decade<sup>-1</sup> in the lower overpotential region to 83 mV decade<sup>-1</sup> at higher overpotentials. This indicates that the mechanism of the ORR on Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT in acidic electrolyte varied significantly with potential in this narrow potential range. Moreover, the mechanism of the ORR on Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT is different in both electrolytes. Chronoamperometric stability studies performed at a potential of 0.61 V vs. RHE showed minimal loss in the ORR current after  $\approx$  70 hours of continuous polarization (Figure 5 d). The novel Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT catalyst thus exhibits promising durability even in the more challenging acidic electrolytes.

Based on the structural and compositional characterization of Fe<sub>3</sub>C/b-NCNT, we conclude that five important aspects are

responsible for its excellent ORR activity and stability: 1) High content of N (8.6 wt%) enhances hydrophilicity, thus strengthening the electrode–electrolyte interaction. 2) High percentage of pyridinic N (59%) promotes O<sup>2</sup> adsorption, owing to the reduced local work function of carbon. [9c] 3) Unique bamboo-like CNTs offer a higher number of edges, thus introducing a higher number of ORR active-sites. 4) High content of Ndoping in b-NCNTs as a prerequisite for the formation of active Fe@N<sup>x</sup> sites. 5) Encapsulated metal NPs can lead to unique host–guest electronic interactions, which make the outer surface of the carbon layer more active in the ORR.[9]

In summary, we developed a novel NPMC-based ORR electrocatalyst consisting of Fe3C nanoparticles encapsulated in porous bamboo-like N-doped CNTs, synthesized by a new MOF-templated assembly approach. The excellent electrocatalytic activity, negligible hydrogen peroxide formation, and long-term stability in both acidic and basic media render Fe3C/ b-NCNT a promising low-cost, highly efficient ORR catalyst. This work provides a new protocol to construct pure-phase Fe3C hybrids from MOF templates, and opens new avenues for further development of active and durable ORR catalysts.

## Acknowledgements

Financial support from the DFG (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) in the framework of the Cluster of Excellence RESOLV (EXC1069) is gratefully acknowledged. A.A. acknowledges the Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung forapostdoctoral fellowship. The authors thank the ICAN team at the Universit-t Duisburg-Essen for the electron microscopy support.

## Conflict of interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: heterogeneous catalysis · iron carbides · metal– organic frameworks · nanostructured materials · oxygenreduction reaction

- [1] a) M. K. Debe, [Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11115) 2012, 486, 43; b) F. Cheng, J. Chen, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c1cs15228a) Soc. Rev. 2012, 41[, 2172.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c1cs15228a)
- [2] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, Science 2017,<https://doi.org/10.1002/science.aad4998>; b) C. Cui, L. Gan, M. Heggen, S. Rudi, P. Strasser, Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3668) 2013, 12, [765.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3668)
- [3] a) G. A. Ferrero, K. Preuss, A. Marinovic, A. B. Jorge, N. Mansor, D. J. L. Brett, A. B. Fuertes, M. Sevilla, M.-M. Titirici, ACS Nano 2016, 10[, 5922](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b01247); b) W. J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. J. Zhang, J. Q. Wang, J. S. Hu, Z. Wei, L. J. Wan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138[, 3570](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00757); c) J. Wei, Y. Liang, Y. Hu, B. Kong, G. P. Simon, J. Zhang, S. P. Jiang, H. Wang, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201509024) Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55[, 1355](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201509024); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201509024) 2016, 128, 1377; d) G. Ren, X. Lu, Y. Li, Y. Zhu, L. Dai, L. Jiang, ACS Appl. [Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b11786) 2016, 8, [4118](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b11786).
- [4] a) A. Miura, C. Rosero-Navarro, Y. Masubuchi, M. Higuchi, S. Kikkawa, K. Tadanaga, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201601568) Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 7963; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201601568) 2016, 128[, 8095](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201601568); b) W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. Liang, R. Zou, S. Guo, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201504830) Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55[, 2650](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201504830); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201504830) 2016, 128, 2698; c) J. Wei, Y. Liang, Y. Hu, B. Kong, J. Zhang, Q. Gu, Y. Tong, X. Wang, S. P. Jiang, H. Wang, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201606327) Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 12470; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201606327) 2016, 128,

- [12658](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201606327); d) U. I. Kramm, I. Herrmann-Geppert, J. Behrends, K. Lips, S. Fiechter, P. Bogdanoff, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b11015) Soc. 2016, 138, 635; e) J. H. Zagal, M. T. M. Koper, [Angew. Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604311) Ed. 2016, 55, 14510; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201604311) 2016, 128[, 14726](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201604311); f) J. Masa, W. Xia, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500569) Chem. Int. Ed. 2015, 54[, 10102](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500569); Angew. Chem. 2015, 127[, 10240](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201500569); g) C. H. Choi, C. Baldizzone, J. P. Grote, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201504903) Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 12753; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201504903) 2015, 127, 12944; h) K. Elumeeva, J. Ren, M. Antonietti, T.- P. Fellinger, [ChemElectroChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201402364) 2015, 2, 584; i) D. Deng, L. Yu, X. Chen, G. Wang, L. Jin, X. Pan, J. Deng, G. Sun, X. Bao, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201204958) 2013, 125, [389](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201204958); j) H. T. Chung, J. H. Won, P. Zelenay, Nat. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms2944) 2013, 4, 1922; k) Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087) [2011](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087), 10, 780.
- [5] a) Z.-Y. Wu, X.-X. Xu, B.-C. Hu, H.-W. Liang, Y. Lin, L.-F. Chen, S.-H. Yu, [Angew. Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201502173) Ed. 2015, 54, 8179; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201502173) 2015, 127, 8297; b) W. Yang, X. Liu, X. Yue, J. Jia, S. Guo, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja5129132) Soc. 2015, 137, [1436](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja5129132); c) Y. Hu, J. O. Jensen, W. Zhang, L. N. Cleemann, W. Xing, N. J. Bjerrum, Q. Li, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201400358) Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 3675; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201400358) 2014, 126[, 3749](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201400358); d) M. Xiao, J. Zhu, L. Feng, C. Liu, W. Xing, Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500262) 2015, 27[, 2521.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500262)
- [6] a) Y. J. Sa, D.-J. Seo, J. Woo, J. T. Lim, J. Y. Cheon, S. Y. Yang, J. M. Lee, D. Kang, T. J. Shin, H. S. Shin, H. Y. Jeong, C. S. Kim, M. G. Kim, T.-Y. Kim, S. H. Joo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138[, 15046](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b09470); b) S. Yasuda, A. Furuya, Y. Uchibori, J. Kim, K. Murakoshi, [Adv. Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201503613) Mater. 2016, 26, 738; c) K. Strickland, E. Miner, Q. Jia, U. Tylus, N. Ramaswamy, W. Liang, M.-T. Sougrati, F. Jaouen, S. Mukerjee, Nat. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms8343) 2015, 6, 7343; d) L. Lin, Q. Zhu, A.-W. Xu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136[, 11027](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja504696r); e) H. W. Liang, W. Wei, Z. S. Wu, X. Feng, K. Mellen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135[, 16002](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407552k); f) K. Kamiya, K. Hashimoto, S. Nakanishi, Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc34719a) 2012, 48, [10213](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc34719a).
- [7] a) Y. V. Kaneti, J. Tang, R. R. Salunkhe, X. Jiang, A. Yu, K. C.-W. Wu, Y. Yamauchi, Adv. Mater. 2017,<https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201604898>; b) J. Tang, R. R. Salunkhe, J. Liu, N. L. Torad, M. Imura, S. Furukawa, Y. Yamauchi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137[, 1572](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja511539a); c) J. Tian, A. Morozan, M. T. Sougrati, M. LefHvre, R. Chenitz, J.-P. Dodelet, D. Jones, F. Jaouen, [Angew. Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201303025) Ed. 2013, 52, 6867; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201303025) 2013, 125, 7005; d) B. Liu, H. Shioyama, T. Akita, Q. Xu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130[, 5390.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja7106146)
- [8] a) A. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rçsler, W. Xia, P. Weide, A. J. R. Botz, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, [Angew. Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201509382) Ed. 2016, 55, 4087; [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201509382) Chem. 2016, 128[, 4155](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201509382); b) Q. L. Zhu, W. Xia, T. Akita, R. Zou, Q. Xu, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201600979) Mater. 2016, 28[, 6391](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201600979); c) P. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, G. Zhou, S. Wei, Y. Li, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604802) Int. Ed. 2016, 55[, 10800](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604802); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201604802) 2016, 128, 10958; d) Z. Li, M. Shao, L. Zhou, R. Zhang, C. Zhang, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505086) 2016, 28[, 2337](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505086); e) B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, N. Li, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, X. Wang, Nat. Energy 2016, 1[, 15006](https://doi.org/10.1038/nenergy.2015.6); f) B. Y. Guan, L. Yu, X. W. Lou, Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE02171A) Sci. 2016, 9[, 3092](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE02171A); g) H. Yang, S. J. Bradley, A. Chan, G. I. N. Waterhouse, T. Nann, P. E. Kruger, S. G. Telfer, J. Am. [Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b06736) 2016, 138, 11872; h) P. Zhao, X. Hua, W. Xu, W. Luo, S. Chen, G. Cheng, Catal. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CY01031H) 2016, 6[, 6365](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CY01031H); i) P. Zhao, W. Xu, X. Hua, W. Luo, S. Chen, G. Cheng, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b03070) Phys. [Chem. C](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b03070) 2016, 120, 11006; j) Y. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Wu, Y. Xiong, Q. Xu, S.-H. Yu, H. Jiang, Adv. Mater. 2015, 27[, 5010](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201502315); k) W. Zhang, Z.-Y. Wu, H.-L. Jiang, S.-H. Yu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136[, 14385](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja5084128); l) H. Zhong, J. Wang, Y. Zhang, W. Xu, W. Xing, D. Xu, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408990) Chem. Int. Ed. 2014, 53[, 14235](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408990); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201408990) 2014, 126, 14459.
- [9] a) J.-P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, L. Yang, M. LefHvre, [ChemCatChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201402133) 2014, 6, [1866](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201402133); b) F. Zhang, X. Pan, Y. Hu, L. Yu, X. Chen, P. Jiang, H. Zhang, S. Deng, J. Zhang, T. B. Bolin, S. Zhang, Y. Huang, X. Bao, Proc. Natl. [Acad.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1306784110) Sci. USA 2013, 110[, 14861;](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1306784110) c) D. Deng, L. Yu, X. Chen, G. Wang, L. Jin, X. Pan, J. Deng, G. Sun, X. Bao, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201204958) Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 371; [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201204958) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201204958) 2013, 125, 389.
- [10] C. Galeano, J. C. Meier, V. Peinecke, H. Bongard, I. Katsounaros, A. A. Topalov, A. Lu, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, F. Scheth, J. Am. [Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja308570c) 2012, 134, [20457](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja308570c).
- [11] T. A. Wezendonk, V. P. Santos, M. A. Nasalevich, Q. S. E. Warringa, A. I. Dugulan, A. Chojecki, A. C. J. Koeken, M. Ruitenbeek, G. Meima, H. U. Islam, G. Sankar, M. Makkee, F. Kapteijn, J. Gascon, ACS Catal. 2016, 6[, 3236.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b00426)
- [12] a) H. Zhang, T. Wang, J. Wang, T. D. Dao, M. Li, G. Liu, X. Meng, K. Chang, L. Shi, T. Nagao, J. Ye, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505187) 2016, 28, 3703; b) E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, M. Lefevre, N. Larouche, J. Tian, J. Herranz, J.-P. Dodelet, [Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1427) [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms1427) 2011, 2, 416.

15213765, 2017, 50, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/chem.201701389 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [13] R. Cao, R. Thapa, H. Kim, X. Xu, M. Gyu Kim, Q. Li, N. Park, M. Liu, J. Cho, Nat. Commun. 2013, 4, 2076.
- [14] a) Y. Zhao, K. Watanabe, K. Hashimoto, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja3085934) Soc. 2012, 134, [19528](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja3085934); b) J. Liang, Y. Jiao, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, [Angew. Chem. Int.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206720) Ed. 2012, 51[, 11496](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206720); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201206720) 2012, 124, 11664; c) K. Gong, F. Du, Z. Xia, M. Durstock, L. Dai, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1168049) 2009, 323, 760.
- [15] a) N. Li, X. X. Chen, L. Stoica, W. Xia, J. Qian, J. Assmann, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.200602625) 2007, 19, 2957; b) K. Hernadi, A. Fonseca, J. B. Nagy, D. Bernaerts, A. A. Lucas, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/0008-6223(96)00074-7) 1996, 34, 1249.

Manuscript received: March 28, 2017 Accepted manuscript online: March 29, 2017 Version of record online: May 2, 2017