---
source: Dan 等 - 2025 - Atomically Dispersed Fe Confined into MnO Nanoclusters Enhances Alkaline Oxygen Reduction Activity a.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 48.812s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:37:40.857408Z
---

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **2025**, 64, e202501531 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202501531

### Oxygen Reduction Reaction

### **Atomically Dispersed Fe Confined into MnO Nanoclusters Enhances Alkaline Oxygen Reduction Activity and Stability**

Meng Dan, Xiting Zhang, Congyi Du, Zhen Guo, Jianan Zhang,\* and Zhao-Qing Liu\*

**Abstract:** Transition metal oxide electrocatalysts are promising alternatives to expensive noble metals for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Here, we present a simple metal-atom localization strategy to confine the atomically dispersed Fe into MnO nanoclusters, which are dispersed and immobilized on high-conductivity carbon support (MF/CN). The experimental and theoretical calculation results reveal that the trace Fe(III) ions doped into MnO nanoclusters can induce charge transfer and spin state transition to trigger a butterfly effect, obtaining abundant active Mn(III) with single-electron  $e_g$  configuration and strengthened built-in electric field (BIEF), which is greatly helpful to balance the adsorption and desorption of ORR O-containing intermediates, facilitate the interfacial electron transfer, and improve the electrical conductivity. As a result, the optimized MF<sub>0.04</sub>/CN exhibits compelling alkaline ORR activity (half-wave potential 0.79 V vs. RHE) and stability (nearly 100% current retention rate for 30 h). Finally, the MF<sub>0.04</sub>/CN realizes a remarkable power density (138 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) and durability (>666 h at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) in Zn-air batteries. This finding not only helps to design high-performance metal oxide heterointerfaces by tuning  $e_g$  orbital occupancy and BIEF strength, but also deepens the understanding of the reaction mechanism.

#### Introduction

The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in alkaline solutions via a four-electron (4e<sup>-</sup>) transfer pathway is one of the central themes in sustainable and clean energy conversion devices such as alkaline fuel cells, metal-air batteries, and so forth. [1-6] Commercial platinum-based (Pt-based) catalysts are recognized as the most efficient for promoting the 4e<sup>-</sup> ORR; however, their high cost, scarcity, and inadequate stability significantly hinder widespread applications in renewable energy devices. [7-9] Transition metal oxide (TMO) catalysts with modulable d-orbital filling, abundant reserves, and flexible composition have attracted enormous interests as potential

alternatives to Pt-based catalysts capable of catalyzing the ORR, especially in alkaline solutions. [10-14] In a seminal work, Suntivich and coworkers confirmed that the ORR activity of oxides exhibited a volcano-shaped dependence on the number of e<sub>g</sub> electrons of metal cations.<sup>[15]</sup> When the e<sub>g</sub> electron filling state of the metal sites toward unity, the oxide catalysts would exhibit the highest ORR catalytic activity, which could be attributed to the metal site with a single eg electron filling state, enabling an appropriate interaction with reaction intermediates. Later, only a few strategies were reported to realize the tailoring of the  $e_g$  electron filling of TMOs, including gradient orbital coupling, [16] heteroatom doping, [17-19] defect engineering.<sup>[20]</sup> etc. Despite recent advancements, the precise modulation of the eg electron configuration in TMOs to achieve single-electron occupation remains a significant challenge, critically limiting catalytic performance optimization. Concurrently, unsatisfactory conductivity persists as a major obstacle in TMOs.

The synthesis of the oxide catalysts on carbon materials is one of the most promising approaches to enhance conductivity. [21,22] However, achieving efficient interfacial electron transfer has remained a significant challenge in interface systems. [23] First, the suitable built-in electric field (BIEF) direction (from oxides to carbon matrix) can tune the directional electron transfer from carbon matrix to oxides (reaction active sites) under the reaction process, which is favorable to the ORR. The BIEF direction depends on the work function ( $\Phi$ ) when two materials come in contact. The electrons transfer from low  $\Phi$  species to high  $\Phi$  species until their Fermi level is aligned at the same level, resulting in a BIEF at the interface. [24,25] Generally, a suitable BIEF direction is constructed when oxides are in close contact with carbon, since oxides always have a lower  $\Phi$  as compared to

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering/Institute of Clean Energy Materials/Guangzhou Key Laboratory for Clean Energy and Materials/Key Laboratory for Water Quality and Conservation of the Pearl River Delta, Ministry of Education, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou 510006, P.R. China

E-mail: lzqgzu@gzhu.edu.cn

Dr. M. Dan, Prof. Z. Guo

School of Materials Science & Engineering, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan 030024, P.R. China

Prof. J. Zhang

School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, P.R. China

E-mail: zjn@zzu.edu.cn

Prof. Z.-Q. Liu

School of Chemistry, South China Normal University, Guangzhou 510006. P.R. China

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section

<sup>[\*]</sup> Dr. M. Dan, Dr. X. Zhang, C. Du, Prof. Z.-Q. Liu

the carbon substrate.[\[26,27\]](#page-9-0) Moreover, the strong BIEF could provide a powerful driving force to accelerate the interfacial electron transfer, which is beneficial to further optimize the ORR kinetics of carbon-supported TMO catalysts. The BIEF strength shows a linear dependence on the difference (-), large could cause strong BIEF.[\[28,29\]](#page-9-0) However, most studies primarily examine intrinsic interfacial electron transfer directions but neglect the impact of BIEF strength. Thus, developing a new strategy to modulate the BIEF strength and simultaneously obtain rich active sites with a single eg electron configuration in carbon-supported oxide composites is highly desirable, yet remains a grand challenge.

In this work, we present a triphenylphosphine oxide (TPPO)-induced metal-atom localization strategy by anchoring the atomically dispersed Fe into MnO nanoclusters, which are then confined on a high-surface-area carbon support. The trace Fe(III) ions inducing charge transfer and spin state transition triggers a butterfly effect, forming abundant Mn(III) centers with a single electron residing on the eg orbitals, which is favorable for balancing the interaction between the active sites and ORR O-species. Meanwhile, the imbalanced electron occupation of eg states for Mn(III) displays a superior electron-donating ability, strengthening the interfacial BIEF. As a result, the trace atomically dispersed Fe modified MnO/CN (MF/CN) affords excellent ORR activity and stability in the alkaline media.

### *Results and Discussion*

#### *Catalyst Synthesis and Characterization*

As shown in Figure [1a,](#page-2-0) a novel TPPO-induced strategy is proposed to synthesize the Fe-modified MnO/CN (MF/CN) catalyst. The TPPO acts as a typical complexing agent with strong coordination ability.[\[30,31\]](#page-9-0) First, the manganese acetate (Mn(OAc)2) could be trapped or coordinated by TPPO in the methanol solution (Solution A) under stirring, leading to produce TPPO-Mn-OAc complex, which is crucial for the formation of MnO nanocrystal, because the periphery of Mn(II) can form an oxygen-enriched units. Then, the ferric acetylacetonate (Fe(AcAc)3) is added into solution A under stirring, whereas the structural crosslinking between Fe(AcAc)3 and TPPO-Mn-OAc occurs via hydrogen bonding interaction and van der Waals interaction, inducing the formation of TPPO-Mn-OAc…Fe-AcAc complex, which is important for the formation of the Fe-modified MnO structure. And the solution A is subsequently injected into solution B (including ZIF-8 seed crystal, 2-methylimidazole, and Zn(II)) under vigorous stirring, and the mixture solution undergoes a self-assembly solvothermal process to form (TPPO-Mn-OAc…Fe-AcAc)…ZIF-8 internet structure. The scanning electron microscope (SEM) images prove that the introduction of Mn or Mn/Fe could not change the geometric structure (rhombic dodecahedron crystals) of ZIF-8 (Figure S1) in the solvothermal process. Finally, a series of Fe-modified MnO/CN (denoted as MFx/CN, x represents the molar weight of Fe precursor) with different Fe contents were synthesized by the pyrolysis process at 920 °C in an Ar atmosphere for 3 h. The actual Fe content in the different synthetic samples was determined by the inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP) (Table S1), demonstrating that trace Fe (<1 wt%) was successfully induced into MFx/CN samples. For comparison, the MnO/CN was also prepared by pyrolysis of Mn-TPPO…ZIF-8 at 920 °C.

To further investigate the synthesis process of the MFx/CN catalyst, the density functional theory (DFT, Gaussian package) was employed in this work (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). First, the formation of TPPO-Mn-OAc (methanol as solvent) was confirmed at room temperature. Then, the stability of TPPO-Mn-OAc complex in the solvothermal process (methanol as solvent) was also studied. The geometric structure of the TPPO-Mn-OAc complex was barely changed in the solvothermal process. The stable structure is crucial for the formation of MnO during the pyrolysis process. The DFT calculation results illustrate that the Mn(II) from the TPPO-Mn-OAc complex with unique oxygen-rich functional groups provides a coordination condition for designing MFx/CN catalysts.

After that, a series of experimental tests were performed to substantiate the microstructure and composition of MFx/CN samples. First, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) indicated that MnO was successfully doped into CN support with high crystallinity (Figures S2,S3, "CN" stands for the N-doped carbon matrix from the carbonization of 2-methylimidazole (mIm) during the pyrolysis process). However, no signals of Fe nanoparticles or any other Fe-containing phases were observed for MFx/CN samples, which may be derived from the Fe species with the low loading (<1 wt%, Table S1). With further analysis of the XRD results, it was remarkable that the diffraction peak (e.g., the (111) plane of MnO) at 2θ ≈ 34.9° shifted to higher angles after the introduction of Fe. And the Mn(II) (0.80 Å) in MnO was partially replaced by Fe species (Fe(II) (0.78 Å) or Fe(III) (0.65 Å)), indicating that Fe was successfully incorporated into the MnO(111). Besides, the graphitization degree of the carbon matrix can be significantly influenced by the incorporation of Fe. Among them, the carbon substrate in the MF0.04/CN with the highest graphitization degree was further verified by G-band peaks in the Raman spectra (Figures S4,S5). The enhanced graphitic degree contributes to stable and efficient electrocatalytic performance by significantly improving electrical conductivity and anticorrosive capacity.[\[32,33\]](#page-9-0) The increased graphitic degree could be ascribed to the introduction of trace Fe(III), because the effect of the acetylacetonate can be directly eliminated by a control experiment (Figure S6). Moreover, the existence of MnO and carbon matrix was also further confirmed by the Raman results (Figures S4,S5). N2 adsorption–desorption experiment was carried out to investigate the specific surface area as well as the porous structure of the prepared catalysts. Typical type I and IV combinative isotherms were displayed in Figures S7,S8, indicating the coexistence of microporous and mesoporous. However, when the MnO NPs and Fe species are introduced, the surface area for MF/CN or MnO/CN decreased (Table S2, ∼600 m<sup>2</sup> g−1) as compared to CN (775.19 m2 g−1). This phenomenon may be attributed to the small particle sizes of

<span id="page-2-0"></span>*Figure 1.* Synthetic process and structural characterizations for MF/CN. a) Illustration of the two-step synthesis process for MF/CN. b) DFT to further investigate the stirring, solvothermal, and pyrolysis process. c) TEM images of MF0.04/CN. d–f) High resolution HAADF-STEM images of MF0.04/CN. g) Intensity line scans for the boxed atoms illustrating different Fe atom morphologies of MF0.04/CN. h) STEM image and corresponding EDS elemental mapping of MF0.04/CN.

the MnO NPs or Fe species easily entering into the micro- and meso-pores of CN.

The scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and high-angle annular darkfield scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) were used to characterize the dispersion and shape of all-obtained samples. The SEM and TEM images revealed that the rhombic dodecahedron structure of ZIF-8 can be maintained after pyrolysis (Figures S9,S10). With the introduction of Mn, a mass of nanoparticles (NPs) is distributed evenly on the CN surface (Figure S9c,d) owing to the formation of MnO NPs. The morphology of MnO/CN can also be maintained when Fe was further introduced (Figures 1c, S9e,f). The high-resolution HAADF-STEM image further determined the existence of MnO and carbon substrate (Figure 1d). The atomic-resolution STEM images of MnO nanocrystallites observed along (111) crystallographic directions show a bright Fe atom array with some individual bright dots (highlighted by yellow circles,

Figure [1e\)](#page-2-0). Meanwhile, the Fe atoms were hardly found on the carbon supports (Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0). The line profiles for the HAADF image (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0) are taken across a dimmer atomic column along the (111) plane. The variation in atomic column intensity validates the presence of Fe atoms with a random distribution at the (111) plane of MnO. The associated energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) mapping showed the distribution of each element in the MF0.04/CN, confirming the existence of Mn, Fe, O, C, and N (Figure [1h\)](#page-2-0). Notably, Fe, Mn, and O exhibit a similar distribution, which is different from that of C and N elements, proving that Fe with atomically dispersed can be precisely modified to the MnO nanoclusters, not CN matrix. In addition, the P element cannot be found ascribing to the P element with a low sublimation temperature (590 °C, Figure S11). In summary, the as-synthesized MnO nanoclusters are crystalline, isolated on the CN support, and atomically dispersed Fe can be selectively anchored into MnO nanoclusters.

#### *Coordination Environment Analysis of MF0.04/CN*

The chemical component and structure of each element in the catalysts were systematically studied. First, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed (Figures S12–S18). The XPS survey results proved the existence of Mn, C, N, and O in the MF samples (Figures S12,S13). The Fe signal can not be observed (Figures S12, S13, and S16b), which could be attributed to the content of Fe (Table S1, Fe < 1 wt% in the MF samples) in the MF samples being below the detection limit or incorporation into the MnO bulk phase. The fitting results of C 1s, N 1s spectra revealed the existence of carbon–nitrogen species in all samples. The Mn 2p spectrum confirmed the existance of Mn in the ionic state with an oxidation state of about +2.[\[34,35\]](#page-9-0) Fe doping caused a slight increase in the valence state of Mn atoms, which is attributed to the partial electron transfer of MnO to the adjacent Fe atoms. The higher average oxidation state of Mn in MF0.04/CN (5.2 eV) was further proven in the smaller separation of the Mn 3s values compared to MnO/CM (5.6 eV, Figure S17). Correspondingly, based on the equation of *V* = 8.956−1.126E,[\[22,36\]](#page-9-0) a Mn average valence state of 3.10 is observed for MF0.04/CN, which is higher than that of MnO/CN (2.65). In addition, the O 1s (∼ 530.0 eV ascribed to lattice oxygen, Figures S14c,S15c) further verifies that the Mn(II) can be attributed to MnO.[\[37\]](#page-9-0) Interestingly, the adsorbtion ability of hydroxyl oxygen (∼ 532.2 eV) and water (534.0 eV) on MnO/CN surface were obviously influenced by the introduction of Fe. These peaks were shifted down beyond 0.5 eV, suggesting that the introduction of Fe observably influenced the adsoption/desorption property of O-containing species on the catalysis surface, which may be favorable for ORR. The P 2p spectrum of MF0.04/CN again confirmed that the P element was fully removed at the high pyrolysis temperature (920 °C, Figure S18).

The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) were performed to further obtain the chemical state and coordination environment of metal species in the samples. As shown in Mn K-edge XANES curves of the samples in Figure [2a,](#page-4-0) the Mn near-edge position of MnO/CN and MF0.04/NC is close MnO, the corresponding absorption edges for MF0.04/CN shift to higher energy as compared to MnO/CN, indicating that the oxidation state of the Mn becomes higher with the Fe doped in MF0.04/CN.[\[38,39\]](#page-9-0) The FT-EXAFS spectra of MnO/CN exhibit prominent peaks at approximately 1.71 and 2.71 Å (Figure [2b\)](#page-4-0), corresponding to Mn–O and Mn– Mn scattering paths, which closely resemble those observed in the reference MnO sample,[\[40\]](#page-9-0) suggesting that the MnO nanoclusters are successfully modified into the CN matrix. This point was also further confirmed by the WT EXAFS spectra (Figure [2g\)](#page-4-0). With the introduction of Fe, the shortrange Mn–O structure exhibits an obvious change (Figure [2c\)](#page-4-0), illustrating that Mn in the bulk MnO6 octahedron is partially replaced with Fe. Meanwhile, the long-range Mn─O─Mn scattering path peak of MF0.04/CN at 2.56 Å displayed a slight blue shift as compared to MnO/CN sample, which could be attributed to the Mn ionic that is replaced by the Fe ionic, because the ionic radius of Mn(II) (0.80 Å) is much larger than that of Fe(II) (0.78 Å) or Fe(III) (0.65 Å),[\[41–43\]](#page-9-0) which is consistent with XRD analysis (Figures S2,S3). The EXAFS fitting parameters are summarized and listed in Table S3. These results indicated that the formation of Fe– O in MF0.04/CN. In addition, the K-edge XANES spectra of Fe in the MF/CN is also further displayed in Figure [2d–f.](#page-4-0) First, the Fe near-edge position of MF0.04/NC is different from the Fe phthalocyanine (FePc), excluding the possibility of the formation of an atomically dispersed Fe─N─C catalyst with FeN4 structure, which is in agreement with the EDS elemental mapping results. And the corresponding absorption edges for MF0.04/CN shift to lower energy as compared to reference Fe2O3, illustrating that the oxidation state of the Fe(III) becomes lower when the Fe is doped into MF0.04/CN (Figure [2d\)](#page-4-0). Further, the FT-EXAFS curves of MF0.04/NC show the prominent peak at 1.56 Å, which is attributed to the first shell Fe–O scattering path (Figure [2e,f\)](#page-4-0). Meanwhile, the coordination environment of Fe in the MF0.04/CN is similar to that of reference Fe2O3 (Figure [2e\)](#page-4-0). The Fe─O─Fe signal at about 2.6 Å nearly disappears for MF0.04/CN, further illustrating that the Fe is successfully injected into the bulk phase of MnO. Based on the above XANES, EXAFS, and STEM results, the atomically dispersed Fe atoms have been successfully anchored into MnO nanoclusters in MF/CN by a TPPO-induced metal-atom localization strategy.

#### *Catalytic Performance Investigation*

Inspired by the above experiment results, the electrocatalytic ORR performance of as-prepared catalysts was first thoroughly evaluated via using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. First, cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements of MF0.04/CN were conducted in the O2- or N2-saturated electrolytes, a conspicuous cathodic peak was observed in O2-saturated solution, clearly illustrating that the ORR catalytic activity of the MFx/CN sample (Figure S19). The linear sweeping voltammetry (LSV, Figures [3a,](#page-5-0) S20) that of MnO/CN,

<span id="page-4-0"></span>*Figure 2.* Microstructure analysis by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) characterization. a) Normalized Mn K-edge XANES spectra and b) corresponding FT-EXAFS spectra of MnO/CN, MF0.04/CN, and reference sample. c) The fitting curves at Mn K-edge for MnO/CN, and MF0.04/CN. d) Normalized Fe K-edge XANES spectra and e) corresponding FT-EXAFS spectra of MF0.04/CN, and reference samples. f) The fitting curves at Fe K-edge for MF0.04/CN, inset: MnO-Fe model. g) WT-EXAFS contour plots at Mn K-edge for MnO/CN, MF0.04/CN, reference MnPc and MnO.

MF0.04/CN, Pt/C, and Fe0.04/CN, revealed that the MF0.04/CN sample has an exceptional ORR catalytic activity, with an onset potential (*E*onset) of 0.95 V (at 0.1 mA cm−2) and a *E*1/2 of 0.79 V at 1600 rpm, exceeding the E1/2 value for MnO/CN (0.75 V) and Fe0.04/CN (0.78 V). Furthermore, the performance of MF0.04/CN is comparable to that of Pt/C (i.e., *E*1/2 = 0.82 V, *E*onset = 0.95 V). Notably, MF0.04/CN displays a Tafel slope of 72 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> in Figure [3b,](#page-5-0) which is smaller than that of other catalysis (Pt/C (75 mV dec−1), MnO/CN (89 mV dec−1), and Fe0.04/CN (94 mV dec−1)), it holds great significance for practical applications. The electron transfer numbers (n) and H2O2 yield (H2O2%) of MF0.04/CN are then discovered as about 4 and below 20% in a wide potential range (>0.4 V vs. RHE), respectively, proving a direct 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway (Figure S21). Moreover, MF0.04/CN shows excellent durability with a nearly 100% current retention rate at a continuous potential of 0.6 V (vs. RHE) for 30 h (Figure [3c\)](#page-5-0), much higher than that of the MnO/CN (85.7%, 15 h) and Pt/C catalyst (86.7%, 10 h). The XRD and TEM results support the structural maintenance of MF0.04/CN after the ORR (Figures S22,S23). Meanwhile, ICP-MS analysis confirmed that the elemental composition of MF0.04/CN showed no significant changes following the stability test (Table Supporting Information). Interestingly, the

<span id="page-5-0"></span>*Figure 3.* ORR and ZABs performance. a) ORR polarization curves of the samples with a scanning rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in 0.1 M O2-saturated KOH solution, and b) the corresponding Tafel plots. c) CA test of the catalysts at 0.6 V (vs. RHE) and a rotation rate of 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. d) Open-circuit plots of ZAB tests. e) Long-time galvanostatic discharge curves of the ZAB at 100 mA cm−2. f) Galvanostatic discharge curves of the ZAB at different current densities. g) Cycling performance with MF0.04/CN as the ORR catalyst and IrO2 as the oxygen evolution reaction catalyst at 10 mA cm−2.

graphitization degree of the carbon matrix is further enhanced in the ORR process, which is favourable for facilitating the electrical conductivity and the stability (Figure S22). Besides, the MF0.04/CN catalyst exhibits good methanol tolerance, with no significant changes after methanol injection compared to Pt/C (Figure S24). All results demonstrate that comparable activity and stability for the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR can be realized by doping trace Fe into MnO nanoclusters.

The remarkable ORR activity and durability of the MF0.04/CN greatly encourage us to investigate its practical application in energy devices. Thus, Zn–air batteries (ZABs) are constructed using Zn foil as the anode and MF0.04/CN as the air cathode in a 6 M KOH electrolyte (Figure S25). The ZAB with MF0.04/CN displays a stable and comparable open circuit voltage (OCV, ∼ 1.50 V) to that of commercial Pt/C (1.50 V) (Figure 3d), which is higher than that of MnO/CN (1.48 V). Meanwhile, a high peak power density of 138 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> is also achieved (Figure S26). Furthermore, Figure 3e shows the galvanostatic discharge curves of MF0.04/CN, MnO/CN, and Pt/C driven batteries at a constant current density of 100 mA cm−2. By normalizing to the consumed Zn mass, the specific capacity of MF0.04/CN-based ZAB is determined to be 742.8 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> (90% of the theoretical capacity, 820 mAh g−1),[\[44\]](#page-9-0) which is superior to that of MnO/CN-based ZAB (676.3 mAh g−1). The MF0.04/CN-based ZAB demonstrates exceptional rate capability and rapid dynamic response characteristics (Figure 3f). Notably, when the current density is cyclically reduced, the OCV recovers

completely without detectable degradation in the MF0.04/CNbased system. Meanwhile, the galvanostatic discharge curves of devices equipped with MF0.04/CN demonstrate excellent discharge stability at various current densities ranging from 1 to 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure [3f\)](#page-5-0). Finally, the long-term galvanostatic charge and discharge tests were carried out (Figure [3g\)](#page-5-0). MF0.04/CN-based ZAB shows a good cycling stability, even under the charge/discharge cycling test at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (voltage gap: 0.75 V) beyond 666 h (>2000 cycles), with no significant change in potential difference. Such excellent cycling stability outperforms most previously reported metal oxides electrocatalysts for ZABs to date under comparable conditions, including commercial Pt/C (< 200 h)[\[45\]](#page-9-0) (Table S4). Therefore, MF0.04/CN can act as a promising ORR catalyst for metal–air battery applications.

#### *Mechanism Study*

To elucidate the mechanism of the superior ORR catalytic activity of MFx/CN and the structural evolution of the MnOx matrix, in situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy was performed. Concretely, a gradually decreasing reduction voltage was applied to the working electrode (containing MF0.04/CN sample) to trigger the ORR process (Figure S27), and the corresponding spectra were collected synchronously (Figure [4a–c\)](#page-7-0). First, the pristine MF0.04/CN displays three characteristic peaks located at 644.9, 1343.4, and 1590.6 cm−1. The ν*<sup>1</sup>* Raman band centred at 644.9 cm−<sup>1</sup> can be assigned to the symmetric stretching vibration (Mn–O) of the MnO6 octahedra along the dz2 orbital of the central metal ions,[\[46,47\]](#page-9-0) and the Raman band at 1343.4 and 1590.6 cm−<sup>1</sup> can be ascribed to the carbon D and G bands, respectively.[\[48\]](#page-9-0) After the MF0.04/CN sample was immersed in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, the ν*<sup>1</sup>* peak disappeared, and a new peak could be found at approximately 577.3 cm−<sup>1</sup> (ν*2*), corresponding to the stretching vibration of the MnO6 octahedra in the dx2-y2 orbital plane.[\[44\]](#page-9-0) And then, with the gradual decrease of applied voltage from 1.0 V versus RHE, the intensity of the ν*<sup>2</sup>* peak also gradually decreases (Figure [4a–c\)](#page-7-0). Specifically, in the diffusion-controlled region, the ν*<sup>2</sup>* peak entirely disappears (Figure [4c\)](#page-7-0). This result proves that the dx2-y2 orbital plane plays a crucial role in the O2 adsorption and diffusion process. In addition, the intensity of the ν<sup>1</sup> peak gradually increases with decreasing applied voltage, accompanied by a Raman peak shift toward higher wavenumbers, indicating that the dz<sup>2</sup> orbital of MnO6 actively participates in the whole electrocatalytic ORR reaction process. The XPS tracking test was then further carried out to investigate the function of the Mn sites of MF0.04/CN in the ORR process (Figure S28). As shown in Figure [4d,](#page-7-0) the Mn 2p3/2 shows a slight shift about 0.3 eV to higher binding energy, indicating that the more high-valent Mn on the surface of MF/CN can be produced by the charge redistribution in the ORR process, due to the O-species adsorption on the metal active sites (Figure S29).[\[45\]](#page-9-0) This redistribution process has not been observed for the MnO/CN (Figure S30). The Mn L-edge XANES spectra results (Figure [4e\)](#page-7-0) confirm that the trace Fe(III) ions and CV-O2 activation can trigger a butterfly effect to obtain abundant active Mn(III) species. The valence state of 3d transition metals is directly related to the magnetic properties. The temperature-dependent magnetizations were measured with a magnetic field (H) of 1000 Oe under fieldcooling procedures to reveal the magnetic properties of MnO/CN, MF0.04/CN, and MF0.04/CN after CV-O2 activation (Figure S31). By fitting the susceptibility versus, an effective magnetic moment (*µ*eff) of MnO/CN is 4.2*µ*B, which is higher than that of MF0.04/CN (2.1*µ*B) and MF0.04/CN after CV-O2 activation (0.4*µ*B) samples, illustrating that the number of singly occupied orbital of Mn decrease after trace Fe(III) doped and CV-O2 activation (Figure [4f\)](#page-7-0). In general, the highvalent Mn(III) or Mn(IV) possesses fewer singly occupied orbitals than the low-valent Mn(II). Therefore, the magnetization studies further confirm that the abundant active Mn(III) will form by doping trace Fe(III) and CV-O2 activation process.

For the interface system, the efficient electron transfer in the interface system was determined by the built-in electric field (BIEF), including direction and strength. Generally, the charge transfer process depends on the -. [\[24–27,49\]](#page-9-0) First, to determine the direction of electron transfer in the MF/CN interface system, the of MnO, MF (MnO-Fe), and Carbon-L measured by the DFT calculations are 3.61, 3.66, and 4.33 eV, respectively (Figures [4g,](#page-7-0) and S32,S33). The introduction of Fe(III) can slightly increase the of MnO from 3.61 to 3.66 eV, which could be attributed to Fe(III) with a stronger electron capture ability than Mn(II). As a result, when MF is in close contact with the carbon support, electrons will be transferred from MF to the carbon support until *E*<sup>f</sup> at the interface tends to equilibrate (Figure [4g\)](#page-7-0), resulting in the formation of BIEF with suitable direction from MF to the carbon support. Meanwhile, the electrons transfer process mediates the carbon matrix reduction (CR1). The improvement of the graphitic degree of the carbon matrix, leading to the increase, and further improving the -. Notably, the reduction degree of the carbon matrix in the MF/CN is increased as compared to MnO/CN (Figure S2), illustrating that the produced Mn(III) species by doping trace Fe(III) with excellent electron-donating ability can further reduce the Carbon-L to Carbon-H. The electron transfer process and the existence of Mn(III) can also be directly supported and verified by the above XPS, XAS, and XRD results. Then, under the application of an external electric field (EEF), electrons are directionally transferred from carbon supports to MF nanoclusters through BIEF. Subsequently, these electrons migrate to the reaction-active sites, enabling highly efficient ORR. Note that the carbon matrix can be further reduced (CR2) in the ORR process (Figure S22). The Carbon-H shows a high reaching up to 4.68 eV, leading to a large - (1.02 eV) between MF and carbon matrix. Therefore, trace Fe(III) can induce an obvious BIEF strengthening effect to accelerate the electron transfer in a contacting MF/CN interface system, which could be attributed to the active Mn(III) with remarkable electrondonating ability. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) further verified this point (Figure S34), as evidenced by the smaller charge transfer resistance arc radius of MF0.04/CN compared to MnO/CN in the Nyquist plot.[\[50\]](#page-9-0) However, the

<span id="page-7-0"></span>*Figure 4.* Investigation reaction process and electron-transfer pathway. In-situ Raman spectra under a) the kinetic-controlled b) mixed kinetic-diffusion-controlled, and c) diffusion-controlled region for MF0.04/CN. d) The change of binding energy for Mn2p3/2 in MF0.04/CN under the ORR with different potentials. The error bars represent the standard deviation derived from two repeated experiments. e) Mn L-edge XANES spectra of MnO/CN, MF0.04/CN, and MF0.04/CN after CV-O2 activation. f) The µeff of MnO/CN, MF0.04/CN, and MF0.04/CN after CV-O2 activation. g) Schematics of heterointerfaces formation in MF/CN and the electron-transfer mechanism.

BIEF strengthening effect is not observed at the MnO/CN interface (Figure S35), which could be attributed to the lower electron-donating ability of Mn(II) compared to Mn(III). Overall, the special BIEF strengthening effect induced by doping trace Fe(III) into MF/CN is crucial for realizing robust ORR performance.

Based on the above result analysis, the ORR process is closely related to Mn eg orbitals (dx2-y2, dz2), valence states, and BIEF. Therefore, we propose a comprehensive mechanism to explain the enhancement of the ORR intrinsic activity and stability (Figure [5\)](#page-8-0). Concretely, MnO has a cubic NaCl-type crystal structure with Mn(II) ion coordinated to six oxygen atoms. The five valence electrons in Mn(II) are distributed on two sets of 3d orbitals, three lower degenerate t2g orbitals, and two higher degenerate eg orbitals, respectively. The pure MnO then shows a symmetric Mn(II)Oh–O– Mn(II)Oh backbones with high-spin state (*1*), which will be broken as Mn(II) centers are partially substituted by highvalence Fe(III) to form Mn(II)Oh–O–Fe(III)Oh backbones (*2*). One of two electrons on the Mn(II) eg orbitals will be transferred to the Fe(III) t2g orbitals, leading to one electron eg configuration for Mn(III) center (*3, ET1*), and then the unstable high-spin state (quintet state) of Fe(II) in Mn(III)Oh– O–Fe(II)Oh will go further to the more stable low-spin state (singlet state) by spin state transition process (*4*). The stability test also supports that the incorporation of Fe can significantly enhance the stability of MnO (Figure [3c\)](#page-5-0). Such imbalance electron occupation of eg states for Mn(III) are favorable for electrons donation to promote the Carbon-L reduction (Carbon-L + Mn(ll) → Carbon-H + Mn(IV); Carbon-L with high-valence carbon exhibits strong electron capture ability due to the surface absorbed electron-withdrawing groups: ─CHO, ─OH, pyridine N, pyridine N, and et al.) to the more stable Carbon-H and the electron deficient Mn(IV) production (*5, ET2*), followed by double active Mn(III) regeneration (*6, ET3*) by the comproportionation reaction of Mn(II)Oh and Mn(IV)Oh. Meanwhile, the BIEF strengthening can also be observed with the Carbon-L reduction. Then, the special BIEF strengthening effect can accelerate the interfacial electron transfer to produce more active Mn(III) by repeating steps *5* and *6*. Finally, the rich O-species in the ORR reaction medium can further induce the charge redistribution of Mn sites to produce rich active Mn(III) (2n), until the Carbon-L is completely transferred to Carbon-H.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>*Figure 5.* The proposed mechanism of electron transfer and BIEF strengthening over MF/CN for ORR.

The increased graphitic degree can further strengthen BIEF. This possess can be well supported by the XRD results of MF0.04/CN after ORR (Figure S22). So, the abundant active Mn(III) with single-electron eg configuration and strengthened BIEF can be simultaneously realized by trace Fe(III) doped in MF/CN, which drives the subsequent high activity and stability of alkaline ORR. For the MnO/CN, the carbon matrix (Carbon-L) exhibits strong electron capture ability, but the Mn(II) is hard to donate electrons to obtain active Mn(III).

### *Conclusion*

In summary, we demonstrated a TPPO-induced metal-atom localization strategy to obtain the atomically dispersed Fe atoms immobilized into MnO nanoclusters/carbon. The atomically dispersed Fe(III) into MnO nanoclusters induces an asymmetric electron Mn─O─Fe channel, resulting in the strengthened BIEF. The active Mn(III) would be regenerated by the comproportionation reaction between Mn(II) and Mn(IV), which can initiate a chain reaction to produce more active Mn(III) (2n) by repeating the Carbon-L reduction and comproportionation reaction. The abundant active Mn(III) with single-electron eg configuration and strengthened BIEF can be simultaneously realized by the butterfly effect of trace Fe(III) in MF/CN, which is responsible for the highly reactive and stable alkaline ORR. This finding could help the development of highly active and conductive metal oxide/carbon composites for a wide range of electrocatalytic applications.

### *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. U24A20541, 22278094, 22209029, and 22479104), Guangdong Graduate Education Innovation Program (No. 2023JGXM\_102), Basic and Applied Basic Research Program of Guangzhou (No. SL2024A03J00499), Open Fund of National-Local Joint Engineering Research Center of Heavy Metals Pollutants Control and Resource Utilization (Nanchang Hang Kong University, No. EL202180071), and Tertiary Education Scientific research project of Guangzhou Municipal Education Bureau (2024312256).

### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### <span id="page-9-0"></span>*Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the Supporting Information of this article.

**Keywords:** Atomically dispersed • Built-in electric field • Eg orbital filling • Metal oxides • Oxygen reduction reaction

- [1] W. Sun, F. Wang, B. Zhang, M. Zhang, V. Küpers, X. Ji, C. Theile, P. Bieker, K. Xu, C. Wang, M. Winter, *Science* **2021**, *371*, 46–51.
- [2] X. Lei, Q. Tang, Y. Zheng, P. Kidkhunthod, X. Zhou, B. Ji, Y. Tang, *Nat. Sustain.* **2023**, *6*, 816–826.
- [3] Q. Lu, X. Zou, Y. Bu, Z. Shao, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *55*, 166–192.
- [4] X. Zou, M. Tang, Q. Lu, Y. Wang, Z. Shao, L. An, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 386–424.
- [5] C.-X. Zhao, X. Liu, J.-N. Liu, J. Wang, X. Wan, C. Wang, X.-Y. Li, J. Shui, L. Song, H.-J. Peng, B.-Q. Li, Q. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202313028.
- [6] Y. Zhao, D. P. Adiyeri Saseendran, C. Huang, C. A. Triana, W. R. Marks, H. Chen, H. Zhao, G. R. Patzke, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 6257–6358.
- [7] X.-T. Wang, T. Ouyang, L. Wang, J.-H. Zhong, T. Ma, Z.-Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 13291–13296.
- [8] Y. Wu, Y. Zhang, L. Lan, T. Hu, S. Tang, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, e202502019.
- [9] C. Santoro, P. Bollella, B. Erable, P. Atanassov, D. Pant, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 473–484.
- [10] Z. Wang, J. Huang, L. Wang, Y. Liu, W. Liu, S. Zhao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202114696.
- [11] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y.-L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 457–465.
- [12] Q. Lu, X. Zou, Y. Bu, K. Liao, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2105604.
- [13] X. Zou, Q. Lu, M. Tang, J. Wu, K. Zhang, W. Li, Y. Hu, X. Xu,
- X. Zhang, Z. Shao, L. An, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2025**, *17*, 6. [14] W. Zhong, J. Jiang, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2024**, *15*, 5445–5451.
- [15] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 546–550.
- [16] X. Wang, J. Wang, P. Wang, L. Li, X. Zhang, D. Sun, Y. Li, Y. Tang, Y. Wang, G. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2206540.
- [17] Y. Rao, S. Chen, Q. Yue, Y. Kang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 8097– 8103.
- [18] Y. Tong, J. Wu, P. Chen, H. Liu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11165–11169.
- [19] A. Zhang, Y. Liang, H. Zhang, Z. Geng, J. Zeng, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 9817–9844.
- [20] V.-H. Do, J.-M. Lee, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 17847–17890.
- [21] C. Chen, Z.-J. Tang, J.-Y. Li, C.-Y. Du, T. Ouyang, K. Xiao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2370002.
- [22] X. Liu, Y. Yao, D. Wang, S. Yao, S. Wang, Z. Fu, Y. Li, J. Wang, Z. Hou, X. Gao, Z. Yang, Y.-M. Yan, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300384.
- [23] J. Chen, L. Zhang, Z. Lam, H. B. Tao, Z. Zeng, H. B. Yang, J. Luo, L. Ma, B. Li, J. Zheng, S. Jia, Z. Wang, Z. Zhu, B. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3183–3189.
- [24] Y. Wang, T. Zhou, S. Ruan, H. Feng, W. Bi, J. Hu, T. Chen, H. Liu, B. Yuan, N. Zhang, W. Wang, L. Zhang, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 6622–6630.

- [25] S. Huang, T. Ouyang, B.-F. Zheng, M. Dan, Z.-Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 9546–9552.
- [26] S. Deng, Z. Tie, F. Yue, H. Cao, M. Yao, Z. Niu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202115877.
- [27] C. Wang, J. Ding, C. Gong, T. Chen, Y. Zhang, K. Song, C. Shi, F. He, *J. Mater. Sci.* **2023**, *58*, 211–229.
- [28] S. Zhu, Z. Li, L. Hou, M. G. Kim, H. Jang, S. Liu, X. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2314899.
- [29] H. Gao, M. Hu, J. Ding, B. Xia, G. Yuan, H. Sun, Q. Xu, S. Zhao, Y. Jiang, H. Wu, M. Yuan, J. Li, B. Li, J. Zhao, D. Rao, Y. Xie, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213410.
- [30] M. C. Etter, T. W. Panunto, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1988**, *110*, 5896– 5897.
- [31] Y. C. Xing, W. J. Dong, X. J. Li, R. D. Yang, *J. Coord. Chem.* **1990**, *22*, 71–78.
- [32] F. Qiang, J. Feng, H. Wang, J. Yu, J. Shi, M. Huang, Z. Shi, S. Liu, P. Li, L. Dong, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 4002–4015.
- [33] W. Ye, S. Chen, Y. Lin, L. Yang, S. Chen, X. Zheng, Z. Qi, C. Wang, R. Long, M. Chen, J. Zhu, P. Gao, L. Song, J. Jiang, Y. Xiong, *Chem* **2019**, *5*, 2865–2878.
- [34] S. Wu, X. Huang, H. Zhang, Z. Wei, M. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 58–65.
- [35] L. Fan, Y. Ji, G. Wang, J. Chen, K. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Wen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7224–7235.
- [36] G. Zhu, W. Zhu, Y. Lou, J. Ma, W. Yao, R. Zong, Y. Zhu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4152.
- [37] M. G. Ahmed, Y. F. Tay, X. Chi, A. S. Razeen, Y. Fang, M. Zhang, A. Sng, S. Y. Chiam, A. Rusydi, L. H. Wong, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202416757.
- [38] L. Cao, Q. Luo, W. Liu, Y. Lin, X. Liu, Y. Cao, W. Zhang, Y. Wu, J. Yang, T. Yao, S. Wei, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 134–141.
- [39] M. Ju, Z. Chen, H. Zhu, R. Cai, Z. Lin, Y. Chen, Y. Wang, J. Gao, X. Long, S. Yang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 11215–11226.
- [40] X. He, H. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Q. He, H. Chen, Y. Cheng, M. Peng, X. Qin, H. Ji, D. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5721.
- [41] J. Bae, D. Shin, H. Jeong, C. Choe, Y. Choi, J. W. Han, H. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 11066–11074.
- [42] L. Peng, N. Yang, Y. Yang, Q. Wang, X. Xie, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 24612–24619.
- [43] H. Lv, Z. Wei, C. Han, X. Yang, Z. Tang, Y. Zhang, C. Zhi, H. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 3117.
- [44] J. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, L. Dai, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2015**, *10*, 444–452.
- [45] M. Dan, X. Zhang, Y. Yang, J. Yang, F. Wu, S. Zhao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2024**, *121*, e2318174121.
- [46] Y.-K. Hsu, Y.-C. Chen, Y.-G. Lin, L.-C. Chen, K.-H. Chen, *Chem. Commun.* **2011**, *47*, 1252–1254.
- [47] P. F. Smith, B. J. Deibert, S. Kaushik, G. Gardner, S. Hwang, H. Wang, J. F. Al-Sharab, E. Garfunkel, L. Fabris, J. Li, G. C. Dismukes, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 2089–2099.
- [48] M. Wang, S. Xu, Z. Zhou, C. L. Dong, X. Guo, J. L. Chen, Y. C. Huang, S. Shen, Y. Chen, L. Guo, C. Burda, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202204711.
- [49] Z. Zhu, H. Huang, L. Liu, F. Chen, N. Tian, Y. Zhang, H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202203519.
- [50] M. Dan, S. Yu, W. H. Lin, M. Abdellah, Z. Guo, Z. Q. Liu, T. Pullerits, K. B. Zheng, Y. Zhou, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2415138.

Manuscript received: January 19, 2025 Revised manuscript received: April 27, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: May 12, 2025 Version of record online: May 22, 2025