---
source: Fan 等 - 2019 - Highly‐Branched Palladium Nanodandelions Simple, Fast, and Green Fabrication with Superior Oxygen R.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.579s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:38:52.309308Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Highly branched Palladium nanodandelions: simple, fast, and green fabrication with superior oxygen reduction property

**Authors:** Chuang Fan, Zihan Huang, Chao Wang, Xianyu Hu, Xiaoyu Qiu, Peiliang She, Dongmei Sun, and Yawen Tang

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *Chem. Eur. J.* 10.1002/chem.201805521

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/chem.201805521

**Supported by**

# **Highly branched Palladium nanodandelions: simple, fast, and green fabrication with superior oxygen reduction property**

Chuang Fan, Zihan Huang, Chao Wang, Xianyu Hu, Xiaoyu Qiu\*, Peiliang She, Dongmei Sun\*, Yawen Tang

**Abstract:** Controllable synthesis of highly branched metallic structures is of great interest and broad significance for their unique properties of superior conductivity, high porosity, low density, etc., that promote the development of high-efficiency electro-catalysts. Herein, without the demand of elevated temperature, seed, template, prolonged reaction time and any organically toxic reducing agent from previously reported highly branched nanostructures, we investigate a simple, rapid and green method for the synthesis of highly branched palladium nanodandelions with flexible ultrafine tentacles and bumpy superficial atomic steps. For the first time, N,N'- Methylenebisacrylamide (MBAA) serves as the only participant to simultaneously cover the functions of coordinating agent, reducing agent and structure-directing agent, facilitating the strategy of intramolecular coordination and self-reduction. Deriving from their plentiful ultrafine tentacles, highly branched structure-caused porosity, and abundant surface atom steps, the Pd nanodandelions exhibit more positive half-wave of 0.863 V *vs.* RHE, optimized specific kinetic activity of 3.0 mA cm-2 at 0.9 V, and better cycle stability with a maintenance of 77.8% after 20000 s for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) compare to commercial Pd black. We believe this architectural design of highly branched metallic structures as well as the smart fabrication strategy may hold great promise for exploring a variety of functional nanomaterials.

Palladium (Pd) nanostructures, as ideal Pt-alternative electrocatalysts, have attracted extensive interests owing to their less-pricy quotation, good poisoning tolerance and relatively high abundance, which can efficiently catalyze many important electrochemical reactions, especially the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on the cathode.[1] As the ORR catalytic activity is closely related to the differences in morphology, size, exposed facets, and amount of surface atoms at corners, edges, and terraces, manipulating these factors of Pd nanostructures is an effective strategy for enhancing their utilization and catalytic performance.[2] So far, Pd-based nanostructures with diverse exposed facets and various shapes have been applied in ORR electrode materials, such as nanosheets,[3] nanorods,[4] nanoclusters,[5] nanowires[6] and nanobowls.[7] Among the nanostructures mentioned above, three dimensional (3D) self-

[a] *C. Fan, Z.Huang, C. Wang, X. Hu, Dr. X. Qiu, Dr. P. She, D. Sun, Y. Tang*

*Jiangsu Key Laboratory of New Power Batteries, Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Centre of Biomedical Functional Materials School of Chemistry and Materials Science Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210023 (PR China) E-mail: qxy18251813615@163.com, sundongmei@njnu.edu.cn*

*Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.*

supported nanostructures have attracted extensive attention, which are not inclined to aggregate as compared with the zero-dimensional (0D) or one-dimensional (1D) nanomaterials. From the structural point of view, the 3D self-supported nanostructures possess highly hierarchical porousity, tremendous corners, accessible active sites, and abundant electron transfer pathways, endowing the catalysts superior electrochemical performance and stability.[8] In parallel, highly branched nanodendrites, with low coordinated sites (e.g., corners, edges, and stepped atoms) along their branches, usually exhibit superior electrocatalytic performance based on their large active surface area and excellent electrical and thermal conductivity.[9] From the above discussion, it is highly desirable to prepare highly branched nanodendrites (HBDs) with well-defined self-supported structures for predictable catalytic activity and stability towards ORR.

Currently, as briefly listed in Table 1, the synthesis of monometallic or alloy HBDs employs several methods, such as seedmediated growth, co-chemical reduction, two-step gelation process and electrochemical deposition. However, many issues still await to be solved in respects of synthetic route and surface structural control in a precise manner. Conventional synthesis of previously reported HBDs always requires complicated reaction procedures, prolonged reaction time and high temperature. Moreover, surfactants are frequently employed in liquid phase synthesis to inhibit extreme overgrowth and aggregation of nanoparticles, thus dramatically occupying the surface activity sites due to their strong adsorption.[10] Besides, the degree and diameter of branches, including the amount of steps, ledges and kink sites on the surface, is another point waiting to be concerned as the atomic arrangement on the surface influences the adsorption energies and reaction pathways closely.[11] However, the challenge is the absence of intrinsic driving force for the spontaneous formation of the highly branched anisotropic structures with narrow diameters. Thus, despite the accomplishments that have been achieved on the controlled synthesis of Pd nanodendrites, a facile, rapid, and efficient approach to the systematic production of highly branched Pd nanodendrites with abundant surface defect atoms is still highly desired and remains a significant challenge.

In this work, we report a facile (room temperature), rapid (stand for 9 min), and green route (without any surfactant and toxic agents) to the one-pot synthesis of highly branched Pd nanodandelions (Pd HBDs) with flexible ultrafine tentacles and bumpy superficial atomic steps. Intramolecular coordination and self-reduction mechanism is responsible for the ingenious fabrication by exclusively using MBAA (a symmetrical non-conjugated diolefin with double bond at terminal position) as coordinating agent, reducing agent and structuredirecting agent simultaneously. The Pd HBDs are featured with plentiful tentacles with narrow diameter, highly branched structurecaused porosity, and high density of low coordinated atoms at step, ledge and kink sites, which offer more contact surfaces and reaction

**Table 1** Comparison of the synthetic method from some previously reported Pd-based nanodendrites

| Catalyst           | Reactant                      | Temperature | Time   |
|--------------------|-------------------------------|-------------|--------|
| PdCu NDs[12]       | Benzyl alcohol + W(CO)6 + PVP | RT          | 1 h    |
| Pd nanoflowers[13] | Carrageenan + KBr + AA        | 50 oC       | 2.5 h  |
| Pd NPs[14]         | CPC + AA                      | 70 oC       | 40 min |
| Pd-Pt NDs[15]      | Urea + PVP                    | 80 oC       | 2 h    |
| Pt-Pd NDs[16]      | Urea + PVP +KOH + N2H4        | Ice-bath    | 1 h    |
| Rh-Pd NDs[17]      | CTAB + OAm                    | 200 oC      | 2 h    |
| Branched Pd[18]    | OA + OAm + toluene            | 270 oC      | 30 min |

active sites to promote the catalytic activity. As a result, the Pd HBDs exhibit outstanding electrocatalytic performance toward the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) with boosted activity, durability compared to commercial Pd catalyst.

Typically, just by mixing the aqueous solution of MBAA and K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> for 9 min at room temperature, the purified Pd HBDs were synthesized without any demand of elevated temperature, seed, template, prolonged reaction time, and organically toxic agent (schematic illustration shown in Figure 1a). MBAA, which possesses a pair of amide groups with double bond at terminal position, can be responsible for such simple and facial route as it can serve as both coordination agent and reduction agent. As schematic interaction shown in Figure 1b, the addition of MBAA could generate the coordinated interaction between MBAA and PdII in K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> solution, forming MBAA-Pd II complex, which was confirmed by UV-vis measurements. As displayed in Figure 1c, The UV-vis spectrum of K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> solution exhibits three characteristic absorption peaks at 236, 311 and 414 nm, which can be assigned to ligand-to-metal charge transfer bands of the [PdCl3(H2O)]– complex. Upon adding the MBAA solution, all the characteristic absorption peaks of K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> disappear completely, indicating the coordination interaction between MBAA and PdII. Such electrostatic interaction could effectively manipulate the reducing kinetics of metal precursor, as well as decrease the nucleation and growth rate, thus the introduction of MBAA would be crucial for the generation of high-quality Pd HBDs. The actual reaction progress of the Pd HBDs was monitored by the optical photographs (Figure 1d). As observed, the colour of MBAA-PdII mixture solution turned from yellow, gray to black quickly in the initial 9 minutes, then remaining stable opaque black, hinting the generation of metallic Pd nanoparticles. All the results clearly demonstrate that our method is a simple and energy-efficient synthetic strategy for the synthesis of Pd HBDs, which is quite different from the conventional surfactantassistant strategy and seed-mediated growth. [19]

**Figure 1** (a) Schematic illustration of the formation of Pd HBDs. (b) Schematic interaction between MBAA and Pd ions. (c) UV-vis absorption spectra of K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> solution, MBAA solution, and the mixture solution of K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> and MBAA. (d) Overall synthetic route presented from the optical photographs at different reaction stages

The morphology features of as-prepared Pd HBDs were firstly investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). As shown in Figure 2a, the sample exhibits a highly branched 3D self-supporting structure consisted of plentiful 1D anisotropic tentacles. A typical TEM image of Pd HBDs (Figure 2b) confirms the dendrite-like nanostructure with a diameter of 200 nm. The magnified TEM image (Figure 2c) recorded from the red frame in Figure 2d clearly shows

the flexible branches with narrow diameters of 2.2 nm. These ultrafine branches tend to connect and bend together to form the 3D dendrites with obviously rough surface, which greatly improve the utilization of Pd atoms and reduce the resistance of electron conduction. Moreover, HRTEM image of an individual dendrite (Figure 2d) displays the integrated self-supported structure with high porosity, which may be beneficial for promoting the mass permeation and transport during catalysis processes.[20] The magnified HRTEM image (Figure 2e) taken from a corner of the branch displays the well-resolved fringes. Owing to the high wavy feature of the branch, the lattice fringes are discontinuous and their orientations vary along the branch. The lattice spacing is measured to be 0.242 nm, which is attributed to the (111) lattice plane of the face-centered cubic (*fcc*)-phase Pd.[21] The corresponding selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of an individual Pd HBDs is displayed in Figure S1, implying its polycrystalline nature. In addition, as marked by red arrows in Figure 2f, low coordinated atoms at steps, ledges and kink sites can be evidently observed on the superficial surface, which could serve as possible catalytic sites and transport channels for reactants, and therefore effectively improve the electrocatalytic activity. EDX mapping displayed in Figure 2g indicates the homogeneous distribution of Pd element and slight N element, manifesting the uniform interaction between MBAA and Pd HBDs through the Pd-N bond.[22]

**Figure 2**. Morphology characterization of the as-synthesized Pd HBDs. (a) SEM image, (b-f) TEM images of Pd HBDs at different magnification. (g) STEM image and corresponding EDX mappings of Pd (red) and N (blue) elements distributed at the Pd HBDs.

The successful synthesis of metallic Pd HBDs was certified by XRD pattern (Figure 3a). Five diffraction peaks at 39.7, 46.2, 67.5, 81.3 and 85.7 are assigned to the (111), (200), (220), (311) and (222) reflections of the face-centered cubic (*fcc*) Pd (JCPDS No. 46- 1043). In particular, Scherrer analysis of the (111) diffraction peak shows an average crystallite-size of around 3 nm, implying that the as-synthesized Pd HBDs are constructed by nano-sized substructures with small crystallite-size. XPS analysis was performed to acquire further insight into the surface components of the Pd HBDs (Figure 3b and S2). The statistic analysis based on the peak areas of metallic Pd (blue region) and PdO (red region) shows that the percentage of metallic Pd species in Pd HBDs is about 87.9%, indicating that the PdII precursor is indeed reduced in the ultrashort reaction time. Nitrogen adsorption-desorption experiments were implemented to characterize the porosity of as-prepared Pd HBDs. As shown in Figure 3c, the N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherms of the Pd HBDs can be categorized as type IV with a remarkable hysteresis loop in the p/p0 range from 0.50 to 0.90, indicating the presence of mesoporous materials. The BJH pore-size distribution (Figure 3d) reveals the presence of mesoporous structure with centered pore size distribution of 4 nm, matching the morphology features displayed in Figure 2d.[23] The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area of Pd HBDs is calculated to be 61.44 m2 g-1 , illustrating the large surface area for better mass transport.

**Figure 3.** (a) XRD pattern. (b) high-resolution XPS spectrum of the Pd HBDs at Pd 3d region. (c) The N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherm, and (d) BJH pore size distribution of Pd HBDs.

Since MBAA is the only participant to facilitate the intramolecular coordination and self-reduction in the system, the atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ has been adjusted for quantitative understanding of the formation of Pd HBDs. The plausible schematic diagram and the corresponding products obtained using different atomic ratio of MBAA/Pd2+ are displayed in Figure 4. When the initial atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ was under a value of 2, the products exhibited flowerlike morphology with relatively irregular edges (indicated by Figure 4c1-d1). While the atomic ratio was under a range of 2~4, the morphology of the products changed to typical highly branched Pd nanodandelions with plentiful flexible tentacles as indicated by Figure 4c2-d2. While the atomic ratio was increased to 4~6, numerously flexible Pd tentacles still remained and twined too tightly to exert a close-grained dandelion-like structure (Figure 4c3-d3). While increasing the atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ further, the obtained flexible Pd tentacles became gathering together to form compacted ball-like structure finally, exhibiting rough surface consisted of numerously glomerate Pd tentacles (Figure 4c4-d4). According to the above TEM observations, the possible formation mechanism of the

Pd HBDs could be proposed as follows. As we know, MBAA, combining the unsaturated bond-based coordination ability and double to bond-based reducing capacity, could be coordinated with Pd2+ modulate the crystal growth.[24] When the atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ was under a value of 2, insufficient coordination effect happened, showing a relative weak characteristic peak confirmed by UV-vis measurements (Figure 4b1). At this time, the insufficient MBAA-PdII complex and dissociative PdII were coexistent in the solution (Figure 4a1). Such insufficient degree of coordination and weak reducing capacity caused by few MBAA could remarkably decrease the nucleation and growth rate so that the crystal growth became kinetically controlled to form the flower-like structure. When the atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ reached a value of 2, coordination effect reached the saturation state, showing a relative stronger characteristic peak compare to the result from Figure 4b1. At this stage, whenever further increasing the atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ the intensity of the characteristic peak kept unchanged, which evidentially certified the saturated coordination status of the solution (UV-vis measurements as shown in Figure 4b2-b4). At these conditions, the solution always contained saturated MBAA-PdII complex and increased dissociative MBAA along with the addition of MBAA (Figure 4a2-a4). While increasing the atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ from 2 to 4 to 6, the products regularly evolved from the highly branched porous structure to compacted ball-like structure, always consisted of plentiful flexible Pd tentacles invariably, which were possibly due to the enhanced reduction capacity and stronger steric-hinerance effect caused by superfluous MBAA in the system.[25] The inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) was served to measure the concentrations of PdII ions remaining in the reaction solution at different time (Figure S3). All four cases display the positive correlation between the decreased concentration of Pd(II) ions and extended reaction time. In addition, the higher concentration of MBAA leads to faster reduction rate, suggesting the reducing capacity of the solution is highly dependent on the amount of MBAA. The difference in reduction kinetics may lead to different

**Figure** 4 (a1)-(a4) Schematic diagram between MBAA and Pd2+. (b1)- (b4) UV-vis spectrum of the solution prepared with different proportions of MBAA and Pd2+. (c1)-(c4) TEM images, (d1)-(d4) highresolution TEM images of the final products obtained using different amounts of MBAA.

reducing pathways, thus resulting in nanostructures with different characteristics.Therefore, according to the aforementioned explanations, it is reasonable to deduce that the proper atomic ratio of MBAA and Pd2+ is primarily responsible for the highly branched nanostructure, and the products with different characteristics can be captured accurately by varying the proportions of MBAA and Pd2+ quantitatively.Moreover, In order to reveal the morphological evolution of the unique Pd HBDs, a series of time-dependent experiments were carried out and the intermediate products collected at different reaction durations were investigated by TEM. As displayed in Figure S4, the products collected at 1 min were dominantly composed of spherical nanoparticles with an average size of 20 nm. As the reaction was proceeded to 3 min, the nanoparticles gradually evolved into 3D self-supported nanoflowers with plentiful anisotropic tentacles. When the reaction continued to 5 min, the aspect ratio of the tentacles increased significantly, giving rise to the tendency of 3D anisotropy and stratified porosity. By further increasing the reaction time to 9 min, the intermediate Pd nanodandelions continued their epitaxial growth, forming well-developed highly branched structure constructed by numerous of ultrathin tentacles. All the results above clearly showed the organized morphology evolution during the rapid reduction process, indicative the rapid and green method for the one-pot synthesis of Pd HBDs.

The electrochemical performance of the Pd HBDs was first investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV) in N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution (Figure 5a). Based on the reduction charge of Pd oxide, the electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) for Pd HBDs and commercial Pd black catalyst (Figure 5b) are evaluated to be 10.97 m2 g-1 and 9.35 m2 g-1 , respectively. Clearly, the ECSA of Pd HBDs is much larger than that of Pd black catalyst, which may benefit from their unique 3D self-supporting structures and highly branched tentacles mentioned above.[26] Then, the typical ORR polarization electrode curves of the Pd HBDs and Pd black were obtained in O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 1600 rpm using a dedicated rotating ring disk (RRDE). The illustration shown in Figure 5c intuitively reveals that the onset potential for Pd HBDs is more positive than that of commercial Pd black, suggesting the preferential oxygen occurred on the Pd HBDs. Moreover, the half-wave potentials for both two catalyst are also used to evaluate their ORR activity.[27] The half-wave potential for Pd HBDs (0.863 V *vs.* RHE) displays a 31 mV positive shift relative to commercial Pd black (0.832 V *vs.* RHE), indicative the higher catalytic activity of Pd HBDs. Since specific kinetic activity is more representative of the intrinsic catalytic activity, we calculated the kinetic currents (specific activities, *jk*) from the ORR polarization curves using the Koutecky-Levich (*K-L*) equation. As shown in Figure 5d, the Pd HBDs reflect clearly enhanced specific kinetic activity over the whole potential range (0.85 V-0.95 V *vs.* RHE) compared to commercial Pd black. Meanwhile, the specific kinetic activity of Pd HBDs is 3.0 mA cm-2 at 0.9 V (*vs.* RHE), which is 3.61 times larger than that of the commercial Pd black (0.83 mA cm-2 ). As faster rotating speed could enhance the diffusion of oxygen on the catalyst surface, the ORR polarization curves recorded at different rotating speeds were measured to acquire the K-L plots (Figure 5e-5f). The electron transfer number (*n*) was calculated to be 4 closely at 0.5 V, 0.6 V, 0.7

,

V, respectively, revealing the "4 e- " pathway (O<sup>2</sup> + 2 H2O + 4 e- 4 OH- ) occurred on the surface of Pd HBDs.

**Figure 5.** CVs for (a) the Pd HBDs, and (b) Pd black in N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at a scan rate of 50 mV s–1 . (c) ORR polarization curves in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at a rotation rate of 1600 rpm, sweep rate: 5 mV s -1 . (d) Kinetic current densities at different potentials, inset: kinetic current densities for two catalysts at 0.90 V. (e) Rotation-rate-dependent current-potential curves, and (f) the corresponding Koutecky-Levich plots at differnt potentials for the Pd HBDs.

Accelerated durability tests (ADTs) were carried out in oxygen saturated 0.1 M KOH solution for 1000 cycles (Figure 6a). After ADTs, the *E*1/2 of the Pd HBDs exhibits a weakly negative shift of 8.1 mV, while the *E*1/2 of commercial Pd black shows a huge negative shift of 13.6 mV (as histogram shown in Figure S5). Meanwhile, HRTEM images of the Pd HBDs after the1000 cycles are provided in Figure S6. The present highly branched dendritic nanostructures have been highly preserved after the durability test, ensuring the morphology stability. Moreover, the tips, corners, and pores of the Pd HBDs are also retained, which have been recognized as highly active sites for ORR.[28] The XRD pattern (Figure S7) still shows five obvious diffraction peaks assigned to the (111), (200), (220), (311), and (222) reflections of the *fcc* Pd (JCPDS No. 46-1043), further affirming the structural robustness of the Pd HBDs after ADTs. Hence, both the negligible variations of *E*1/2 and the robust structure of Pd HBDs demonstrate the superior eletro-chemical and structural stability compare to commercial Pd black. The fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra of the Pd HBDs before and after ADTs have been measured to explain the presence of MBAA. As shown in Figure S8, the FTIR spectroscopy reveals the presence of -CH<sup>2</sup> and C-N groups, suggesting that the as-prepared Pd HBDs are modified with MBAA. After ADTs, the FTIR spectroscopy of the products still shows weak stretching vibration of -CH<sup>2</sup> and C-N groups, suggesting the existance of a small number of MBAA.

**Figure 6**. (a) Accelerated stability test of Pd HBDs and commercial Pd catalysts after 1000 cycles in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. (b) Chronoamperometry curves of the Pd HBDs and commercial Pd catalysts recorded at 1.56 V for 20000 s

Furthermore, the long-term stability of the catalysts was investigated through chronoamperometry (CA) measurements, which were completed in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 1.56 V for 20000 s. As displayed in Figure 6b, the normalized current on Pd HBDs still retains 77.8% of the initial value after 20000 s, which is much higher than that of commercial Pd (57.5%), implying a lower current decay of Pd HBDs over the whole time in comparison with commercial Pd black. On the base on the above results and literatures of previously reported nanodendrites, the remarkable catalytic activity and stability of Pd HBDs can be attribute to the follow factors. (1) The uniquely highly branched nanodandelion structure greatly improves the Pd atomic utilization, providing a large surface area and abundant active sites on the steps, ledges and kink sites, which are beneficial for enhancing the intrinsic activity of catalyst.[29] (2) A large number of long tentacles display the one-dimensional and flexible property, ensuring the rapid electron transfer and well corrosion resistance.[30] (3) Numerous interspaces-caused porosity significantly promotes the O<sup>2</sup> diffusion and mass transfer, allowing the accessibility of the fuel molecules to the active sites.[31] (4) The overall 3D self-supported network guarantees the structural stability, inhibiting the catalyst decay caused by electrochemical corrosion and Oswald ripening effect to a certain extent.[32]

# **Conclusions**

In summary, we have developed a simple, facile, and nontoxic strategy for the rapid synthesis of Pd HBDs with ultrafine tentacles and superficial bumpy atomic steps. It's worth noting that MBAA serves as the only participant for the fabrication of intramolecular coordination and self-reduction without complicated procedures and commonly produce from early reported synthetic strategies. By virtues of plentiful branches with narrow diameter, and abundant surface atoms, the resultant Pd HBDs exhibit extraordinary enhanced activity and durability toward the ORR in alkaline medium, outperforming commercial Pd black catalyst. We believe that the simple and scalable methodology presented here could inspire the future design of other highly branched metal nanodandelions with diverse functionalities and promising applications.

## **Experimental Section**

**Reagents and Chemicals:** N,N- Methylenebisacrylamide (MBAA) was supplied from Alfa Aesar Co., Ltd. Potassium chloropalladite (K2PdCl4) was purchased from Johnson Matthey Chemicals Co., Ltd. Commercial Pd black was purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. (Shanghai, China). All the reagents were up to analytical reagent grade and used without further purification.

**Synthesis of highly branched Pd** nanodandelions: In a typical synthesis, 157.1 mg MBAA was dispersed in 25 mL deionized water to form uniform solution. Then 5mL 50 mM K2PdCl<sup>4</sup> solution was added to initiate the reaction. The mixture was standing for 9 minutes at room temperature (30 <sup>o</sup>C) to obtain highly branched Pd nanodandelions. At last, the products were washed with acetic acid several times and centrifuged at 15000 rpm for 5 min to remove the residual MBAA, and then dried at 50 <sup>o</sup>C for 6 h in a vacuum dryer.

**Electrochemical Measurements:** All electrochemical experiments were measured on a CHI 760D electrochemical analyzer (CH instruments, Shanghai, Chenhua Co., Ltd.) at 25 ± 1 <sup>o</sup>C. A standard three-electrode system was used to perform all the electrochemical experiments, which consisted of a saturated calomel electrode as a reference electrode, a platinum sheet as an auxiliary electrode, and a catalyst-modified glassy carbon electrode as a working electrode. For the preparation of working electrode, a homogeneous suspension of catalyst was prepared by ultrasonic 5 mg catalyst and 1 ml H2O for 30 min. Then 10 μL of the resulting suspension was dropped on the surface of the glassy carbon electrode (5 mm diameter, 0.196 cm<sup>2</sup> ). After drying, 5 μL of Nafion solution (5 wt.%) was coated on the surface of the modified electrode and dried again.

**Instruments:** TEM images were obtained from a JEOL JEM-2100F TEM operated at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. SEM images were taken on a JSM-2010 microscopy. XRD patterns were acquired from model D/maxrC X-ray diffractometer using Cu kα radiation source (λ = 1.5406 Å) operated at 40 kV and 100 mA. Energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis of particles was carried out on a JSM-2010 SEM. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were carried out on a Thermo VG Scientific ESCALAB 250 spectrometer with an Al Kα radiator. The binding energy was corrected by means of the C 1s peak energy of 284.6 eV

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (21576139, 21875112 and 21503111), Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20171473 and BK20150045), and Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions of China (16KJB150020). The authors are also grateful for the supports from National and Local Joint Engineering Research Center of Biomedical Functional Materials and a project sponsored by the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions.

**Keywords:** Rapid room-temperature synthesis • Highly branched nanostructure • Pd nanodandelions • Oxygen reduction reaction • N,N-Methylenebisacrylamide

[1] a) Y. Zhang, M. Wang, E. Zhu, Y. Zheng, Y. Huang and X. Huang, *Nano Lett.*, **2015**, 15, 7519-7525; b) W. Xiao, M. A. Liutheviciene Cordeiro, M. Gong, L. Han, J. Wang, C. Bian, J. Zhu, H. L. Xin and D. Wang, *J. Mater.* 

- *Chem. A*, **2017**, 5, 9867-9872; c) Z. Wei and H. Matsui, *Nat. Commun.*, **2014**, 5, 3870; d) C. Ge, R. Wu, Y. Chong, G. Fang, X. Jiang, Y. Pan, C. Chen and J.-J. Yin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, **2018**, 28, 1801484.
- [2] a) Q. Gao, M.-R. Gao, J.-W. Liu, M.-Y. Chen, C.-H. Cui, H.-H. Li and S.- H. Yu, *Nanoscale*, **2013**, 5, 3202-3207; b) D. Gao, H. Zhou, J. Wang, S. Miao, F. Yang, G. Wang, J. Wang and X. Bao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, **2015**, 137, 4288-4291; c) T. K. Sau and A. L. Rogach, *Adv. Mater.*, **2010**, 22, 1781-1804.
- [3] X. Qiu, H. Zhang, P. Wu, F. Zhang, S. Wei, D. Sun, L. Xu and Y. Tang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, **2017**, 27, 1603852.
- [4] N. Tian, Z. Y. Zhou and S. G. Sun, *Chem. Commun.*, **2009**, 12, 1502- 1504.
- [5] K. Wang, H. Lin, B. Ni, H. Li, M. A. Z. G. Sial, H. Yang, J. Zhuang and X. Wang, *Nano Res.*, **2017**, 11, 3175-3181.
- [6] H. Huang, A. Ruditskiy, S. I. Choi, L. Zhang, J. Liu, Z. Ye and Y. Xia, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces*, **2017**, 9, 31203-31212.
- [7] G. Fu, M. Gong, Y. Tang, L. Xu, D. Sun and J.-M. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, **2015**, 3, 21995-21999.
- [8] a) X. Li, T. W. Goh, L. Li, C. Xiao, Z. Guo, X. C. Zeng and W. Huang, *ACS Catal.*, **2016**, 6, 3461-3468; b) Z. Wang, S. Ning, P. Liu, Y. Ding, A. Hirata, T. Fujita and M. Chen, *Adv. Mater.*, **2017**, 29, 1703601.
- [9] a) B. Lim and Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, **2011**, 50, 76-85; b) X. Qu, Z. Cao, B. Zhang, X. Tian, F. Zhu, Z. Zhang, Y. Jiang and S. Sun, *Chem. Commun.*, **2016**, 52, 4493-4496.
- [10] a) W. Hong, Y. Fang, J. Wang and E. Wang, *J. Power Sources*, **2014**, 248, 553-559; b) H.-C. Peng, J. Park, L. Zhang and Y. Xia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, **2015**, 137, 6643-6652.
- [11] X. Zong, X. Miao, S. Hua, L. An, X. Gao, W. Jiang, D. Qu, Z. Zhou, X. Liu and Z. Sun, *Appl. Catal., B*, **2017**, 211, 98-105.
- [12] Y. Xiong, W. Ye, W. Chen, Y. Wu, Q. Xu, Y. Yan, H. Zhang, J. Wu and D. Yang, *RSC Adv.*, **2017**, 7, 5800-5806.
- [13] N. Ma, X. Liu, Z. Yang, G. Tai, Y. Yin, S. Liu, H. Li, P. Guo and X. S. Zhao, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.*, **2017**, 6, 1133-1140.
- [14] S. Liu, X. Mu, H. Duan, C. Chen and H. Zhang, *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.*, **2017**, 2017, 535-539..
- [15] Z.-J. Wang, J.-J. Lv, J.-J. Feng, N. Li, X. Xu, A.-J. Wang and R. Qiu, *RSC Adv.*, **2015**, 5, 28467-28473.
- [16] J.-J. Lv, J.-N. Zheng, S.-S. Li, L.-L. Chen, A.-J. Wang and J.-J. Feng, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, **2014**, 2, 4384-4390.
- [17] Y. Qi, J. Wu, H. Zhang, Y. Jiang, C. Jin, M. Fu, H. Yang and D. Yang, *Nanoscale*, **2014**, 6, 7012-7018.
- [18] L. Graham, G. Collins, J. D. Holmes and R. D. Tilley, *Nanoscale*, **2016**, 8, 2867-2874.
- [19] a) A. Chen, C. Ostrom, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, 115, 11999-12044; b) C. Zhu, D. Du, A. Eychmuller, Y. Lin, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, 115, 8896-8943; c) W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.*, **2018**, 30, 1706962; d) Y. W. Lee, M. Im, J. W. Hong, S. W. Han, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, 9,44018-44026.
- [20] W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li and S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.*, **2018**, 30, 1706962.
- [21] S. Zhuo, J. Zhang, Y. Shi, Y. Huang and B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, **2015**, 54, 5693-5696.
- [22] G.-R. Xu, F.-Y. Liu, Z.-H. Liu and Y. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, **2015**, 3, 21083-21089
- [23] a) L. Y. Zhang, Z. L. Zhao and C. M. Li, *Nano Energ.*, **2015**, 11, 71-77; b) S. K. Das, M. K. Bhunia, A. K. Sinha, A. Bhaumik, *Acs Catal.*, **2011**, 1, 493-501; c) M. Pramanik, Y. Tsujimoto, V. Malgras, S. X. Dou, J. H. Kim, Y. Yamauchi, *Dalton Trans.*, **2013**, 42, 5140-5149.
- [24] L. Du, S. Zhang, G. Chen, G. Yin, C. Du, Q. Tan, Y. Sun, Y. Qu and Y. Gao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces*, **2014**, 6, 14043-14049.
- [25] a) Z. Sun, J. H. Kim, Y. Zhao, F. Bijarbooneh, V. Malgras, Y. Lee, Y. M. Kang and S. X. Dou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, **2011**, 133, 19314-19317; b) Y. Xuan, L. T. Roling, M. Vara, A. O. Elnabawy, Z. Ming, Z. D. Hood, S. Bao, M. Mavrikakis and Y. Xia, *Nano Lett.*, **2016**, 16, 6644-6649.
- [26] C. Du, P. Li, F. Yang, G. Cheng, S. Chen and W. Luo, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces*, **2018**, 10, 753-761.

# Accepted Manuscript

# **COMMUNICATION**

- [27] a) Z. Cui, G. Fu, Y. Li and J. B. Goodenough, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, **2017**, 56, 9901-9905; b) M. Bao, I. S. Amiinu, T. Peng, W. Li, S. Liu, Z. Wang, Z. Pu, D. He, Y. Xiong and S. Mu, *ACS Energ. Lett.*, **2018**, 3, 940- 945.
- [28] Z. G, J. Y, L. F, Z. H, J. C, Y. J, Y. D and Z. Z, *Chem. Commun.*, **2014**, 50, 9447-9450.
- [29] B. Zhang, G. Yang, C. Li, K. Huang, J. Wu, S. Hao and Y. Huang, *Nano Res.*, **2018**, 11, 4225-4231.
- [30] S. J. May, J. G. Zheng, B. W. Wessels and L. J. Lauhon, *Adv. Mater.*, **2010**, 17, 598-602.
- [31] a) Y. Tao, Y. Ma, Q. Huang, M. He, G. Cao, S. Xia, D. Zhang, M. Wang, Z. Hong and Z. Tong, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces*, **2016**, 8, 23646- 23654; b) H. Kwon, M. K. Kabiraz, J. Park, A. Oh, H. Baik, S. I. Choi and K. Lee, *Nano Lett.*, **2018**, 18, 2930-2936.
- [32] a) L. Gloag, T. Benedetti, S. Cheong, Y. Li, X. H. Chan, L. M. Lacroix, S. Chang, R. Arenal, I. Florea and H. Barron, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, **2018**, 57,41-10245; b) C. Yang, M. Y. Gao, Q. B. Zhang, J. R. Zeng, X. T. Li and A. P. Abbott, *Nano Energ*., **2017**, 36, 85-94.

# **Table of Contents**

# COMMUNICATION

*Chuang Fan, Zihan Huang, Chao Wang, Xianyu Hu, Xiaoyu Qiu\*, Peiliang She, Dongmei Sun\*, Yawen Tang*

**Highly branched Palladium nanodandelions: simple, fast, and green fabrication with superior oxygen reduction property**

Herein, we describe a facile, rapid and room-temperature stategy for the synthesis of Pd HBDs via N,N'- Methylenebisacrylamide (MBAA) as the coordinating agent, reducing agent and structure-directing agent for intramolecular coordination and self-reduction. Due to plentiful and ultrafine branches, long tentacles-caused porosity, and superficial bumpy atomic steps, the Pd HBDs show remarkable catalytic activity and durability toward the ORR.