---
source: Gao 等 - 2023 - A Cobalt( III ) Corrole with a Tethered Imidazole for.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 81.708s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:41:15.442262Z
---

Check for updates

Cite this paper: Chin. J. Chem. 2023, 41, 2866-2872. DOI: 10.1002/cjoc.202300294

# A Cobalt(III) Corrole with a Tethered Imidazole for Boosted **Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

Yimei Gao, <sup>‡,a</sup> Benxing Mei, <sup>‡,a</sup> Yizhen Wu, <sup>‡,b</sup> Qian Zhao, <sup>a</sup> Zijia Bao, <sup>a</sup> Haonan Qin, <sup>a</sup> Yuhan Xu, <sup>a</sup> Haoyuan Lv, <sup>a</sup> Xinyang Peng,<sup>a</sup> Yan He,<sup>a</sup> Ting Luo,<sup>a</sup> Ran Yao,<sup>a</sup> Wei Zhang,<sup>a</sup> Haitao Lei,\*<sup>a</sup> and Rui Cao\*<sup>a</sup>

# **Keywords**

Molecular electrocatalysis | Cobalt corrole | Axial ligand effect | Oxygen reduction reaction | O<sub>2</sub> binding

# Comprehensive Summary

Developing electrocatalysts with high activity and selectivity for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is vital to promote the performance of the next-generation energy technologies, which depend on the efficiency of the catalytic reduction of dioxygen. In the structure of cytochrome c oxidases (CcOs), a histidine imidazole residue binding to the axial position of Fe plays a crucial role in facilitating the selective reduction of  $O_2$  to water. Inspired by nature, we herein report on the synthesis of  $Co^{III}$  corrole 1 tethered with an imidazole ligand as well as its electrocatalytic ORR and O<sub>2</sub> binding features. As compared to the imidazolium-free analogue, complex 1 displayed remarkably boosted activity for the selective four-electron/four-proton ( $4e^-/4H^+$ ) ORR with a half-wave potential of  $E_{1/2} =$ 0.82 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions. Importantly, we demonstrate that the tethered axial imidazole ligand improves the  $O_2$  binding ability of 1 thermodynamically and dynamically, which is crucial to boost electrocatalytic ORR performance. This work presents an example to improve electrocatalytic ORR activity and selectivity of Co corroles by introducing an axial imidazole ligand to enhance the O<sub>2</sub> binding and activation.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>†</sup>These authors contributed equally to this work.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>a</sup> Key Laboratory of Applied Surface and Colloid Chemistry, Ministry of Education, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710119, China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>b</sup> Beihang School, Beihang University, Beijing 100191, China

<sup>\*</sup>E-mail: leiht2017@snnu.edu.cn; ruicao@snnu.edu.cn

#### **Background and Originality Content**

Electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is considered a key reaction in fuel cells and metal-air batteries, which are the representatives of new energy conversion and storage techniques. However, the sluggish kinetics of ORR requires the use of high-efficiency catalysts, such as Pt and its alloy materials. Due to the low earth-abundance and high cost of Pt, extensive efforts have been made to find inexpensive transition metal catalysts to replace Pt-based materials. Macrocyclic complexes with the classical M-N<sub>4</sub> model are an intriguing family of catalysts that show great promise in this regard. Therefore, diverse molecular complexes of first-row transition metal elements, including Mn, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe, Pe

In nature, diverse heme proteins with Fe porphyrin sites are employed for O<sub>2</sub> binding and activation (Figure 1a). For example, cytochrome c oxidases (CcOs) can catalyze the reduction of  $O_2$  to water with high efficiency. [52] By studying the structure-function relationships of synthetic model complexes, the ORR process occurring at CcOs has been greatly studied. In addition to the heme active site in CcOs, the Cu' ion, the phenol group, and the amino acid residues located at the second sphere of Fe porphyrin sites play key roles in improving  ${\rm O_2}$  binding and activation.  $^{[5,24,38,53]}$ Particularly, the ORR activity and selectivity of CcOs are strongly influenced by a histidine imidazole group coordinated to the axial position of the Fe ion. Collman, Dey and their co-workers suggested that this axial imidazole can increase electron density of Fe via a so-called "push effect" (Figure 1a). [54] In addition to Fe porphyrins, electron-donating axial ligands can also lead to improved electrocatalytic 4e<sup>-</sup>/4H<sup>+</sup> ORR with Co porphyrins<sup>[29,55]</sup> and Fe phthalocyanines. [47,56] Importantly, our recent studies showed that the presence of an imidazole group on the central metal ion can contribute greatly to promoting  $O_2$  binding and activation for both Fe porphyrins and Co porphyrins. On the other hand, metal corrole complexes usually have better ORR performance than their related metal porphyrin analogues. [39,57-58] This improved performance is due to the fact that trianionic corrole macrocycles are more effective than dianionic porphyrin macrocycles in stabilizing high-valent metal ions, which are key intermediates in ORR.  $^{[59-60]}$  Considering the remarkable ORR performance of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of the contract of mance of metal corroles, it is of high interest to examine

**Figure 1** (a) Diagram showing the active site of CcOs and the electronic "push effect" of the *trans* axial imidazole. (b) Molecular structures of **1** and **2** studied in this work.

the effect of an axial imidazole coordinated to the metal ion of metal corroles on electrocatalytic  $4e^-/4H^+$  ORR.

Based on the above considerations, we herein report on the synthesis of  $\text{Co}^{\text{II}}$  corrole **1** (Figure 1b) tethered with an imidazole group that binds to the Co ion and its electrocatalytic ORR features. Importantly, **1** showed higher activity and selectivity for electrocatalytic ORR than **2**, which is a  $\text{Co}^{\text{II}}$  corrole analogue without such an imidazole group binding to the central Co ion (Figure 1b). First, Co corrole **1** is more active and selective than its imidazole-free analogue **2** for the electrocatalytic  $4\text{e}^-/4\text{H}^+$  ORR in aqueous solutions. Second, our results suggested that an imidazole group on Co can greatly improve the  $O_2$  binding and further promotes the  $O_2$  activation. This work is therefore significant to clarify the crucial effect of an axial imidazole group of metal corroles on intensifying the activity and selectivity of ORR.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Co corroles 1 and 2 were synthesized according to the synthetic route presented in Scheme S1 and Scheme S2, respectively, by utilizing the methods reported previously. [61] Characterization details are provided in the Supporting Information (Figures S1— S16). The identity and purity of 1 and 2 were verified by X-ray crystallography (Figure 2), <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectroscopy (Figures S9 and S14), infrared spectroscopy (Figures S10 and S15) and high-resolution mass spectrometry (Figures S11 and S16). The presence of one pyridine and one imidazole in 1 was determined by <sup>1</sup>H NMR (Figure S9). The mass spectrum of 1 displayed an ion at a massto-charge ratio of 984.0966, which matched the calculated value of 984.0950 for 1 losing an axial pyridine. Unlike 1, <sup>1</sup>H NMR of 2 suggested that there are two pyridines (Figure S14). In the mass spectrum of 2, the mass-to-charge ratio of 762.0316 is consistent with a calculated value of 762.0307 for 2 losing two pyridines. High-quality single crystals of 1 and 2, which are suitable for single crystal X-ray diffraction studies, were obtained by recrystallization of 1 or 2 from a pyridine/hexane/dichloromethane mixture (cell parameters presented in Supporting Tables S1 and S2). As shown in Figure 2, the Co atom of 1 and 2 each has a six-coordinated octahedral geometry. Their Co atoms are located perfectly in the macrocycle plane defined by the four N atoms of the corrole ligands. Furthermore, the Co-N(imidazole) bond distance of 1.929(4) Å in 1 is shorter than the Co-N(pyridine) bond lengths. This observation is consistent with previous reports that imidazole has a stronger electron-donating ability than pyridine. [62] In addition, the UV-vis spectrum of 1 is quite different from that of 2. As shown in Figure S17, 1 has only one Soret band at 437, but 2 has two Soret bands at 380 and 431 nm. Note that the band around 389 nm is commonly assigned to the Co corrole with one axial pyridine. [62] Unlike 2, no such mono-pyridine Co corrole was observed in the UV-vis spectrum of 1, suggesting that the interactions between Co and axial ligands in 1 are stronger than those in 2. It is worth noting that complexes 1 and 2 used for the

**Figure 2** Thermal ellipsoid plots (30% probability) of the X-ray structure of Co corroles **1** and **2**. Color code: carbon, grey; fluorine, green; nitrogen, blue; oxygen, red; cobalt, purple. Hydrogen atoms and solvent molecules are omitted for clarity.

subsequent experimental studies in this work were in the form of single crystals.

The redox features of 1 were first measured in anhydrous dimethylformamide (DMF) containing 0.1 mol/L Bu<sub>4</sub>NPF<sub>6</sub> under N<sub>2</sub> (Figure S18). The cyclic voltammogram (CV) of 1 in DMF revealed three quasi-reversible  $1e^-$  redox couples at  $E_{1/2} = 0.07$ , -0.81, and -1.80 V versus ferrocene, which can be assigned to the formal redox couple of Co<sup>IV</sup>/Co<sup>III</sup>, Co<sup>III</sup>/Co<sup>II</sup>, and Co<sup>II</sup>/Co<sup>I</sup>, respectively. A similar CV was presented in 2, exhibiting three redox processes at  $E_{1/2}$  = 0.12 and -0.45 and -1.82 V versus ferrocene. The redox potentials of the Co<sup>IV</sup>/Co<sup>III</sup> and Co<sup>II</sup>/Co<sup>I</sup> couples of **1** are very similar to those of 2, while the Co<sup>III</sup>/Co<sup>II</sup> redox potential of 1 showed a cathodic shift of 360 mV as compared to that of 2. This observation is in a good agreement with the previous report, that is, the axal pyridine ligand on Co ion can cause the cathodic shift of Co<sup>|||</sup>/Co<sup>||</sup> for Co corroles. <sup>[62]</sup> Furthermore, the CVs of **1** were carried out under different scan rates, which displayed a linear relationship between the formal Co<sup>ii</sup>/Co<sup>ii</sup> and Co<sup>i</sup>/Co<sup>i</sup> reduction peak currents and the square root of the scan rates (Figure S19). Similar results were also observed in the case of 2 (Figure S20). Those observations suggest that both 1 and 2 have the free diffusion characteristics in homogeneous solutions.

The electrocatalytic ORR activities of 1 and 2 were evaluated in 0.1 mol/L KOH. We first loaded 1 and 2 onto carbon black (CB) for ORR electrocatalysis. The use of CB as a supporting material for molecular catalysts 1 and 2 was aimed to improve conductivity and also to promote the mass transfer. The resulted hybrids 1@CB and 2@CB were then studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Figures 3a and 3b, respectively) and transmission electron microscope (TEM, Figures 3c and 3d, respectively), showing no aggregated particles of Co corroles in the hybrids 1@CB and 2@CB. Furthermore, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of 1@CB and 2@CB showed the characteristic signals of Co 2p, F 1s and N 1s (Figure S21), confirming the successful loading of both 1 and 2 in these hybrids. For comparison, the SEM, TEM and XPS analysis of blank CB was also provided in Figures S21 and S22.

Next, we studied the electrocatalytic ORR activity of 1@CB and 2@CB in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions. The CV of a GC electrode loaded with 1@CB displayed a large catalytic current with a peak potential at 0.80 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) under  $O_2$  (Figure S23a). Note that in this work, all potentials in aqueous solutions are reported with the reference to RHE. In contrast, 1@CB showed no such current under  $N_2$ . Therefore, this obvious catalytic wave comes from the electrocatalytic ORR process. Similar finding with the use of 2@CB was obtained,

Figure 3 SEM images of 1@CB (a) and 2@CB (b). TEM images of 1@CB (c) and 2@CB (d).

showing an ORR wave peaked at 0.74 V (Figure S23b). Besides, the catalytic ORR current with 1@CB is significantly larger than that with 2@CB (Figure S23). The boosted ORR activity of 1@CB in terms of both the decreased overpotential and the increased catalytic current further suggest that the axial imidazole ligand plays a crucial role in improving ORR. Note that similar phenomena of improving ORR activity are common in both CcOs and relevant metal porphyrin complexes. [25,29,52,63] Note that blank CB displayed a poor ORR activity in 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions (Figure S24).

Furthermore, the number (n) of electrons transferred per  $O_2$ molecule is an important parameter of the electrocatalytic ORR. As a result, the use of rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) measurements was aimed to study the n value during the ORR process. In RRDE measurements, the disk electrodes loaded with 1@CB and 2@CB were scanned from 1.05 V to 0 V with a scan rate of 5 mV·s<sup>-1</sup>, while the ring electrode was polarized at 1.46 V. As shown in Figure 4a, the linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) of 1@CB and 2@CB displayed notable ORR currents with a half-wave potential  $E_{1/2} = 0.82$  V and 0.75 V at 1600 r/min in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions, respectively. The ORR n values were then calculated from the disk and ring currents. As depicted in Figure 4b, RRDE measurements gave n =3.85 for 1@CB and n = 3.39 for 2@CB. As a consequence, the assessed H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yields are 3.7% for 1@CB and 15.2% for 2@CB over the potential range of 0-0.7 V. Moreover, the ORR Tafel slope is 44 mV per decade for 1@CNT, while it is 60 mV per decade for 2@CNT (Figure S25). This result suggests that 1 exhibited better kinetics than 2 during the ORR. In RDE measurements, the LSV data were collected at different rotation speeds (Figures 4c and 4e). The ORR n values were also calculated from the Koutecký-Levich (K-L) method, giving n = 3.92 for 1@CB (Figure 4d) and 3.31 for 2@CB (Figure 4f). It is worth noting that these ORR n values obtained via the K-L analysis were in a good agreement with those calculated from the RRDE data. These results thus showed that, in addition to activity, the imidazole group also played critical roles in improving 4e ORR selectivity for Co corroles. We can show that 1 is a remarkable ORR electrocatalyst in 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions by comparing its ORR performance to that of previously described molecular electrocatalysts (Table S2).

Additionally, we evaluated the stability of 1@CNT and 2@CNT as ORR electrocatalysts. After a 10-h electrolysis under controlled potential at 0.65 V, the electrocatalytic ORR current with 1@CB dropped by 8.2% (Figure S26a), while the current with 2@CB dropped by 11.0% (Figure S26b). The stability of 1 and 2 was identified by analyzing the after-electrolysis catalysts using the linear sweep voltammetry (Figure S27). Moreover, the stability of 1 was confirmed by analyzing the after-electrolysis catalysts using XPS (Figure S28). These results suggested that the axial imidazole group can facilitate the 4e<sup>-</sup> ORR for Co corroles not only in activity and selectivity but also in stability.

In order to understand the effects of the axial imidazole ligand on ORR catalysis, we studied the thermodynamics and kinetics of O2 binding with these two catalysts. UV-vis spectroscopy analysis was used to study the reaction of Co corrole with O2 (Figures 5a and 5b). Cobaltocene (Cp2Co) was used to reduce 1 and 2 to form 1e $^-$  reduced products (1 $^-$  and 2 $^-$ ), because Co $^{|||}$  corrole was found to be difficult to directly react with O<sub>2</sub>. [64] For 1, upon reacting with one equivalent of Cp2Co in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran (THF) under N2, the bands at 440, 586, and 607 nm were noticeably decreased, and a new band appeared at 422 nm (Figures 5a and S29a). These results are consistent with the formation of  $\mathbf{1}^-$  (Co"). After that, the resulted 1 was used to react with O<sub>2</sub>. As shown in Figure 5a, the UV-vis spectrum of 1 after reacting with O2 is consistent with a Co<sup>III</sup>-superoxo species. [29,65] This result indicates that the reaction of  $O_2$  with  $\mathbf{1}^-$  gives  $\mathbf{1}$ -superoxo. For the reduction of  $\mathbf{2}$ , the bands at 383, 433, 584, and 607 nm were decreased, and new bands appeared at 420 and 564 nm (Figures 5b and S29b). This result is consistent with the reaction of Cp<sub>2</sub>Co with 2 to give 2<sup>-</sup>.

Figure 4 (a) RRDE data of 1@CB and 2@CB at 1600 r/min rotation rate in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions. The ring electrode potential was held at 1.46 V. (b) ORR n values with 1@CB and 2@CB in 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions as determined by RRDE. ORR LSVs of 1@CB (c) and 2@CB (e) in 0.1 mol/L KOH solutions at different rotation speeds. K–L plots for ORR with 1@CB (d) and 2@CB (f). Conditions: GC disk electrode (area 0.125 cm<sup>2</sup>), Pt ring electrode (area 0.188 cm<sup>2</sup>), scan rate 5 mV·s<sup>-1</sup>.

**Figure 5** (a) The UV-vis spectra of  $\bf 1$  and  $\bf 1^-$  under  $N_2$  and  $O_2$ . (b) The UV-vis spectra of  $\bf 2$  and  $\bf 2^-$  under  $N_2$  and  $O_2$ . The EPR spectra of  $\bf 1^-$  (c) and  $\bf 2^-$  (d) under  $N_2$  and  $O_2$  at 100 K in THF.

We also studied the reaction between  $\mathbf{2}^-$  and  $O_2$ . Besides the  $\operatorname{Co}^{|||}$ -superoxo signals, there are also signals of  $\mathbf{2}^-$  species after the reaction of  $\mathbf{2}^-$  with  $O_2$ . The equilibrium constant  $(K_{O_2})$  for  $O_2$  binding to  $\operatorname{Co}^{|||}$  at room temperature was determined to be  $\mathbf{1.48} \times \mathbf{10}^5$   $\operatorname{M}^{-1}$  for  $\mathbf{1}^-$  (Figure S30) and  $\mathbf{1.35} \times \mathbf{10}^3$   $\operatorname{M}^{-1}$  for  $\mathbf{2}^-$  (Figure S31). The  $K_{O_2}$  value of  $\mathbf{1}^-$  is two orders of magnitude larger than that of  $\mathbf{2}^-$ , corroborating the beneficial role provided by the axial imidazole ligand. In addition, the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy analysis was also used to study the reaction of  $\operatorname{Co}$  corrole with  $\operatorname{O}_2$ . Co corrole  $\mathbf{1}$  and  $\mathbf{2}$  were reduced to  $\mathbf{1}^-$  and  $\mathbf{2}^-$  for EPR measurements, respectively. Note that the  $\operatorname{Co}^{|||}$  corrrole is EPR silent. As shown in Figure 5, the EPR spectra of  $\mathbf{1}^-$  and  $\mathbf{2}^-$  both displayed eight-line hyperfine spectral pattern under  $\operatorname{N}_2$ , confirming the formation of the  $\operatorname{Co}^{|||}$  species.

duced into  $\mathbf{1}^-$ , the different EPR signals revealed the formation of  $\mathbf{1}$ -superoxo (Figure 5c). Notably,  $\mathbf{2}^-$  cannot completely convert to  $\mathbf{2}$ -superoxo under the same condition (Figure 5d). This difference of UV-vis and EPR between  $\mathbf{1}$  and  $\mathbf{2}$  may be a result from a tethered imidazole coordinated to the axial position of the Co ion. As a consequence,  $\mathbf{1}$  is much more efficient than  $\mathbf{2}$  to bind and activate  $O_2$  due to an imidazole ligand at the axial position of the Co ion.

Next, the kinetics of the reaction between  $Co^{\parallel}$  and  $O_2$  was studied by using stopped-flow technique. As shown in Figure 6, the reactions of  $\mathbf{1}^-$  and  $\mathbf{2}^-$  with a large excess amount of  $O_2$  in THF resulted in obvious conversions. The isosbestic point at 428 nm indicated a clean transformation from  $\mathbf{1}^-$  to  $\mathbf{1}$ -superoxo (Figure 6a). This transformation was completed within 0.4 s (Figure 6b),

Figure 6 (a) The UV-vis spectral change of  $\mathbf{1}^-$  upon reacting with  $O_2$ . (b) The absorption decay at 419 nm for  $\mathbf{1}^-$ . (c) The UV-vis spectral change of  $\mathbf{2}^-$  upon reacting with  $O_2$ . (d) The absorption decay at 419 nm for  $\mathbf{2}^-$ .

and the  $k_{\rm obs}$  of the reaction of  ${\bf 1}^-$  with  ${\rm O_2}$  was calculated to be 8.42 s<sup>-1</sup>. Notably, compared to  ${\bf 1}^-$ ,  ${\bf 2}^-$  could not be completely converted to **2**-superoxo under the same conditions (Figure 6c). The  $k_{\rm obs}$  of the  ${\rm O_2}$  binding reaction for  ${\bf 2}^-$  was 1.44 s<sup>-1</sup>, which is far smaller than that of  ${\bf 1}^-$  (Figure 6d). We also obtained the second-order rate constants. The  $k_2$  value of  ${\rm O_2}$  binding reactions was 2551 M<sup>-1</sup>·s<sup>-1</sup> for  ${\bf 1}^-$  and 436 M<sup>-1</sup>·s<sup>-1</sup> for  ${\bf 2}^-$ . These results indicate that the imidazole ligand on the axial position of Co ion in  ${\bf 1}$  is crucial for binding and activating  ${\rm O_2}$ .

### **Conclusions**

In summary, we reported the synthesis of Co corrole 1 tethered with an imidazole axial group and its electrocatalytic ORR feature. Compared to its imidazolium-free analogue, 1 displays improved electrocatalytic  $4e^-$  ORR performance in terms of activity and selectivity in alkaline aqueous solutions. In addition, our results demonstrated that 1 exhibits an apparent improvement in the  $O_2$  binding and activation than 2 because of the electronic "push effect" of an axial imidazole ligand. Therefore, this work shows the effect of the axial imidazole of Co corroles on  $O_2$  binding and activation and highlights the value of axial ligand tuning on boosted electrocatalytic ORR.

#### **Experimental**

#### Stopped-flow experiments

**Reduction by Cp<sub>2</sub>Co.** The reduction of Co corroles **1** and **2** with Cp<sub>2</sub>Co was monitored by UV-vis spectroscopy at room temperature. A 0.5 mmol sample of **1** (0.52 mg) or **2** (0.46 mg) was dissolved in 25 mL of degassed dry THF, giving a  $2 \times 10^{-5}$  mol/L solution of **1** and **2**. Cp<sub>2</sub>Co (1.2 equivalent) was then added to the solution, and the resulted solution was stirred strongly to make the reaction complete.

**Reaction with O<sub>2</sub>.** Freshly prepared THF solutions of O<sub>2</sub> (6.6 ×  $10^{-3}$  mol/L) and of  $1^-$  or  $2^-$  were mixed in the SX20 stopped-flow instrument by a volume ratio of 1:1 with a simultaneous injection at 25 °C. The UV-vis spectra were recorded immediately after the mixing.

# Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy

X-band continuous wave EPR measurements were carried out using a Brüker E500 EPR spectrometer at a microwave frequency of 9.43 GHz with a liquid helium cooling system. The EPR spectra were measured at 100 K with a modulation amplitude of 8 Gauss, a modulation frequency of 100 KHz, and a microwave power of 20.0 mW. EPR measurements include the following: (a) 1 was dissolved in 1 mL of degassed dry THF (30 mmol/L); (b) 2 was dissolved in 1 mL of degassed dry THF (30 mmol/L); (c) 1 was dissolved in 1 mL of degassed dry THF (30 mmol/L), then added Cp<sub>2</sub>Co (1.2 equivalent) to the solution; (d) 2 was dissolved in 1 mL of degassed dry THF (30 mmol/L), then added Cp<sub>2</sub>Co (1.2 equivalent) to the solution. Manipulations of the above experiments were operated in the glove box. (e) When 1 was reduced to  $1^-$ , then added excess  $0_2$ . (f) When 2 was reduced to  $2^-$ , then added excess  $0_2$ .

Other experimental details and characterization data are available in Supporting Information.

## **Supporting Information**

The supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cjoc.202300294.

# **Acknowledgement**

We are grateful for support from the National Natural Science

Foundation of China (21902099, 22171176 and 22105010), Key Research and Development Program of Shaanxi (2023-YBGY-296), Fok Ying-Tong Education Foundation for Outstanding Young Teachers in University, Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (GK202203002), and Research Funds of Shaanxi Normal University.

#### References

- [1] Haider, R.; Wen, Y.; Ma, Z.-F.; Wilkinson, D. P.; Zhang, L.; Yuan, X.; Song, S.; Zhang, J. High Temperature Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells: Progress in Advanced Materials and Key Technologies. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 1138–1187.
- [2] Fang, X.; Kalathil, S.; Reisner, E. Semi-Biological Approaches to Solar-to-Chemical Conversion. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49, 4926–4952.
- [3] Zhao, D.; Zhuang, Z.; Cao, X.; Zhang, C.; Peng, Q.; Chen, C.; Li, Y. Atomic Site Electrocatalysts for Water Splitting, Oxygen Reduction and Selective Oxidation. *Chem. Soc. Rev.* 2020, 49, 2215–2264.
- [4] Pegis, M. L.; Wise, C. F.; Martin, D. J.; Mayer, J. M. Oxygen Reduction by Homogeneous Molecular Catalysts and Electrocatalysts. *Chem. Rev.* 2018, 118, 2340–2391.
- [5] Zhang, W.; Lai, W.; Cao, R. Energy-Related Small Molecule Activation Reactions: Oxygen Reduction and Hydrogen and Oxygen Evolution Reactions Catalyzed by Porphyrin- and Corrole-Based Systems. Chem. Rev. 2017, 117, 3717–3797.
- [6] Yang, L.; Shui, J.; Du, L.; Shao, Y.; Liu, J.; Dai, L.; Hu, Z. Carbon-Based Metal-Free ORR Electrocatalysts for Fuel Cells: Past, Present, and Future. Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1804799.
- [7] Chen, J.; Ou, Z.; Chen, H.; Song, S.; Wang, K.; Wang, Y. Recent Developments of Nanocarbon Based Supports for PEMFCs Electrocatalysts. Chin. J. Catal. 2021, 42, 1297–1326.
- [8] Anson, C. W.; Stahl, S. S. Mediated Fuel Cells: Soluble Redox Mediators and Their Applications to Electrochemical Reduction of O₂ and Oxidation of H₂, Alcohols, Biomass, and Complex Fuels. Chem. Rev. 2020, 120, 3749–3786.
- [9] Zheng, Z.; Wang, C.; Mao, P.; Zhu, Y.; Ran, R.; Zhou, W.; Liao, K.; Shao, Z. In Situ Formation of Self-antistacking FeCoOx on N-doped Graphene: A 3D-on-2D Nanoarchitecture for Long-life Zn-air Batteries. Carbon Energy 2022, 5, e274.
- [10] Zhang, G.; Liu, B.; Wang, T.; Gong, J. Arificial Leaves for Solar Fuels. Chin. J. Chem. 2021, 39, 1450–1458.
- [11] Peng, R.; Zhao, Z.; Sun, H.; Yang, Y.; Song, T.; Yang, Y.; Shao, J.; Jin, H.; Sun, H.; Zhao, Z. The Active Sites and Corresponding Stability Challenges of the M-N-C Catalysts for Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell. Chin. J. Chem. 2023, 41, 710–724.
- [12] Shao, Q.; Wang, P.; Zhu, T.; Huang, X. Low Dimensional Platinum-Based Bimetallic Nanostructures for Advanced Catalysis. Acc. Chem. Res. 2019, 52, 3384–3396.
- [13] Huang, L.; Zaman, S.; Tian, X.; Wang, Z.; Fang, W.; Xia, B. Y. Advanced Platinum-Based Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts for Fuel Cells. Acc. Chem. Res. 2021, 54, 311–322.
- [14] Li, J.; Feng, X.; Wei, Z. Recent Progress in Pt-Based Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. J. Electrochem. 2018, 26, 589–601.
- [15] Zhao, C.-X.; Li, B.-Q.; Liu, J.-N.; Huang, J.-Q.; Zhang, Q. Transition Metal Coordinated Framework Porphyrin for Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction. Chin. Chem. Lett. 2019, 30, 911–914.
- [16] Zhao, X.; Yin, Q.; Mao, X.; Cheng, C.; Zhang, L.; Wang, L.; Liu, T.-F.; Li, Y.; Li, Y. Theory-Guided Design of Hydrogen-Bonded Cobaltoporphyrin Frameworks for Highly Selective Electrochemical H₂O₂ Production in Acid. Nat. Commun. 2022, 13, 2721.
- [17] Hong, Y.; Li, L.; Huang, B.; Tang, X.; Zhai, W.; Hu, T.; Yuan, K.; Chen, Y. Molecular Control of Carbon-Based Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts through Metal Macrocyclic Complexes Functionalization. Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2100866.
- [18] Li, Y.; Wang, N.; Lei, H.; Li, X.; Zheng, H.; Wang, H.-Y.; Zhang, W.; Cao, R. Bioinspired N₄-Metallomacrocycles for Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction Reaction. Coord. Chem. Rev. 2021, 442, 213996.
- [19] Kumar, A.; Zhang, Y.; Jia, Y.; Liu, W.; Sun, X. Redox Chemistry of

- N4-Fe2+ in Iron Phthalocyanines for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Chin. J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, 1404–1412.
- [20] Yuan, S.; Zhang, J.; Hu, L.; Li, J.; Li, S.; Gao, Y.; Zhang, Q.; Gu, L.; Yang, W.; Feng, X.; Wang, B. Decarboxylation-induced defects in MOF-derived single cobalt atom@carbon electrocatalysts for efficient oxygen reduction. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21685–21690.
- [21] Cook, E. N.; Machan, C. W. Homogeneous Catalysis of Dioxygen Reduction by Molecular Mn Complexes. *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 11746–11761.
- [22] Marianov, A. N.; Jiang, Y. Effect of Manganese Porphyrin Covalent Immobilization on Electrocatalytic Water Oxidation and Oxygen Reduction Reactions. *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 3838–3848.
- [23] Passard, G.; Dogutan, D. K.; Qiu, M.; Costentin, C.; Nocera, D. G. Oxygen Reduction Reaction Promoted by Manganese Porphyrins. *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 8671–8679.
- [24] Bhunia, S.; Ghatak, A.; Dey, A. Second Sphere Effects on Oxygen Reduction and Peroxide Activation by Mononuclear Iron Porphyrins and Related Systems. *Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *122*, 12370–12426.
- [25] Xie, L.; Zhang, X.-P.; Zhao, B.; Li, P.; Qi, J.; Guo, X.; Wang, B.; Lei, H.; Zhang, W.; Apfel, U.-P.; Cao, R. Enzyme-Inspired Iron Porphyrins for Improved Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Reactions. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7576–7581.
- [26] Zhou, X.-Y.; Xu, C.; Guo, P.-P.; Sun, W.-L.; Wei, P.-J.; Liu, J.-G. Axial Ligand Coordination Tuning of the Electrocatalytic Activity of Iron Porphyrin Electrografted onto Carbon Nanotubes for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Chem. - Eur. J.* **2021**, *27*, 9898–9904.
- [27] Guo, H.; Wang, Y.; Guo, K.; Lei, H.; Liang, Z.; Zhang, X.-P.; Cao, R. A Co Porphyrin with Electron-Withdrawing and Hydrophilic Substituents for Improved Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction. *J. Electrochem.*  **2022**, *28*, 2214002.
- [28] Lv, H.; Guo, H.; Guo, K.; Lei, H.; Zhang, W.; Zheng, H.; Liang, Z.; Cao, R. Substituent Position Effect of Co Porphyrin on Oxygen Electrocatalysis. *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *32*, 2841–2845.
- [29] Li, X.; Li, P.; Yang, J.; Xie, L.; Wang, N.; Lei, H.; Zhang, C.; Zhang, W.; Lee, Y.-M.; Zhang, W.; Fukuzumi, S.; Nam, W.; Cao, R. A Cobalt(II) Porphyrin with a Tethered Imidazole for Efficient Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Electrocatalysis. *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *76*, 617–621.
- [30] Park, J.; Chen, Z.; Flores, R. A.; Wallnerström, G.; Kulkarni, A.; Nørskov, J. K.; Jaramillo, T. F.; Bao, Z. Two-Dimensional Conductive Ni-HAB as a Catalyst for the Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 39074–39081.
- [31] Miner, E. M.; Gul, S.; Ricke, N. D.; Pastor, E.; Yano, J.; Yachandra, V. K.; Van Voorhis, T.; Dincă, M. Mechanistic Evidence for Ligand-Centered Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction with the Conductive MOF Ni3(hexaiminotriphenylene)2. *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 7726–7731.
- [32] Ross, R. D.; Sheng, H.; Ding, Y.; Janes, A. N.; Feng, D.; Schmidt, J. R.; Segre, C. U.; Jin, S. Operando Elucidation of Electrocatalytic and Redox Mechanisms on a 2D Metal Organic Framework Catalyst for Efficient Electrosynthesis of Hydrogen Peroxide in Neutral Media. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 15845–15854.
- [33] Gentil, S.; Molloy, J. K.; Carrière, M.; Gellon, G.; Philouze, C.; Serre, D.; Thomas, F.; Le Goff, A. Substituent Effects in Carbon-Nanotube-Supported Copper Phenolato Complexes for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Inorg. Chem.* **2021**, *60*, 6922–6929.
- [34] Ali, A.; Prakash, D.; Majumder, P.; Ghosh, S.; Dutta, A. Flexible Ligand in a Molecular Cu Electrocatalyst Unfurls Bidirectional O2/H2O Conversion in Water. *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 5934–5941.
- [35] Langerman, M.; Hetterscheid, D. G. H. Fast Oxygen Reduction Catalyzed by a Copper(II) Tris(2-pyridylmethyl)amine Complex through a Stepwise Mechanism. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 12974–12978.
- [36] Zhang, B.; Sun, L. Artificial Photosynthesis: Opportunities and Challenges of Molecular Catalysts. *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, 2216-2264.
- [37] Machan, C. W. Advances in the Molecular Catalysis of Dioxygen Reduction. *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 2640–2655.
- [38] Martin, D. J.; Wise, C. F.; Pegis, M. L.; Mayer, J. M. Developing Scaling Relationships for Molecular Electrocatalysis through Studies of Fe-Porphyrin-Catalyzed O<sup>2</sup> Reduction. *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2020**, *53*, 1056–1065.

- [39] Lei, H.; Li, X.; Meng, J.; Zheng, H.; Zhang, W.; Cao, R. Structure Effects of Metal Corroles on Energy-Related Small Molecule Activation Reactions. *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 4320–4344.
- [40] Liu, K.; Fu, J.; Lin, Y.; Luo, T.; Ni, G.; Li, H.; Lin, Z.; Liu, M. Insights into the Activity of Single-Atom Fe-N-C Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2075.
- [41] Wen, X.; Qi, H.; Cheng, Y.; Zhang, Q.; Hou, C.; Guan, J. Cu Nanoparticles Embedded in N‐Doped Carbon Materials for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Chin. J. Chem.* **2020**, *38*, 941–946.
- [42] Qin, H.; Wang, Y.; Wang, B.; Duan, X.; Lei, H.; Zhang, X.-P.; Zheng, H.; Zhang, W.; Cao, R. Cobalt Porphyrins Supported on Carbon Nanotubes as Model Catalysts of Metal-N4/C Sites for Oxygen Electrocatalysis. *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *53*, 77–81.
- [43] Liu, T.; Zhang, Q.; Guo, H.; Liang, Z.; Cao, R. Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction Reaction with Metalloporphyrins. *Sci. Sin. Chim.* **2022**, *52*, 1306–1320.
- [44] Liu, Y.; Liu, X.; Lv, Z.; Liu, R.; Li, L.; Wang, J.; Yang, W.; Jiang, X.; Feng, X.; Wang, B. Tuning the Spin State of the Iron Center by Bridge-Bonded Fe-O-Ti Ligands for Enhanced Oxygen Reduction. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202117617.
- [45] Liu, M.; Yang, M.; Shu, X.; Zhang, J. Design Strategies for Carbon-Based Electrocatalysts and Application to Oxygen Reduction in Fuel Cells. *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2021**, *37*, 2007072.
- [46] Kong, F.; Cui, X.; Huang, Y.; Yao, H.; Chen, Y.; Tian, H.; Meng, G.; Chen, C.; Chang, Z.; Shi, J. N-doped Carbon Electrocatalyst: Marked ORR Activity in Acidic Media without the Contribution from Metal Sites? *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202116290.
- [47] Zhao, K.-M.; Liu, S.; Li, Y.-Y.; Wei, X.; Ye, G.; Zhu, W.; Su, Y.; Wang, J.; Liu, H.; He, Z.; Zhou, Z.-Y.; Sun, S.-G. Insight into the Mechanism of Axial Ligands Regulating the Catalytic Activity of Fe–N<sup>4</sup> Sites for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *61*, 2103588.
- [48] Xue, S.; Ryan Osterloh, W.; Lv, X.; Liu, N.; Gao, Y.; Lei, H.; Fang, Y.; Sun, Z.; Mei, P.; Kuzuhara, D.; Aratani, N.; Yamada, H.; Cao, R.; Kadish, K. M.; Qiu, F. Enhanced Four-Electron Oxygen Reduction Selectivity of Clamp-Shaped Cobalt(II) Porphyrin(2.1.2.1) Complexes. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202218567.
- [49] Zhang, R.; Warren, J. J. Recent Developments in Metalloporphyrin Electrocatalysts for Reduction of Small Molecules: Strategies for Managing Electron and Proton Transfer Reactions. *ChemSusChem*  **2021**, *14*, 293–302.
- [50] Xie, X.; Peng, L.; Yang, H.; Waterhouse, G. I. N.; Shang, L.; Zhang, T. MIL-101-Derived Mesoporous Carbon Supporting Highly Exposed Fe Single-Atom Sites as Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction Catalysts. *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101038.
- [51] Shang, L.; Yu, H.; Huang, X.; Bian, T.; Shi, R.; Zhao, Y.; Waterhouse, G. I.; Wu, L. Z.; Tung, C. H.; Zhang, T. Well-Dispersed ZIF-Derived Co,N-Co-doped Carbon Nanoframes through Mesoporous-Silica-Protected Calcination as Efficient Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts. *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 1668–1674.
- [52] Wikström, M.; Krab, K.; Sharma, V. Oxygen Activation and Energy Conservation by Cytochrome *c* Oxidase. *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2469– 2490.
- [53] Li, X.; Lei, H.; Xie, L.; Wang, N.; Zhang, W.; Cao, R. Metalloporphyrins as Catalytic Models for Studying Hydrogen and Oxygen Evolution and Oxygen Reduction Reactions. *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2022**, *55*, 878–892.
- [54] Collman, J. P.; Devaraj, N. K.; Decréau, R. A.; Yang, Y.; Yan, Y.-L.; Ebina, W.; Eberspacher, T. A.; Chidsey, C. E. D. A Cytochrome *c* Oxidase Model Catalyzes Oxygen to Water Reduction under Rate-Limiting Electron Flux. *Science* **2007**, *315*, 1565–1568.
- [55] Zhou, Y.; Xing, Y.-F.; Wen, J.; Ma, H.-B.; Wang, F.-B.; Xia, X.-H. Axial Ligands Tailoring the ORR Activity of Cobalt Porphyrin. *Sci. Bull.* **2019**, *64*, 1158–1166.
- [56] Chen, K.; Liu, K.; An, P.; Li, H.; Lin, Y.; Hu, J.; Jia, C.; Fu, J.; Li, H.; Liu, H.; Lin, Z.; Li, W.; Li, J.; Lu, Y.-R.; Chan, T.-S.; Zhang, N.; Liu, M. Iron Phthalocyanine with Coordination Induced Electronic Localization to Boost Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4173.
- [57] Lei, H.; Zhang, Q.; Liang, Z.; Guo, H.; Wang, Y.; Lv, H.; Li, X.; Zhang, W.; Apfel, U.-P.; Cao, R. Metal-Corrole-Based Porous Organic Polymers

- for Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Reactions. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202201104.
- [58] Mahammed, A.; Gross, Z. Metallocorroles as Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction (ORR). *Isr. J. Chem.* **2016**, *56*, 756–762.
- [59] Zhang, X.-P.; Chandra, A.; Lee, Y.-M.; Cao, R.; Ray, K.; Nam, W. Transition Metal-Mediated O-O Bond Formation and Activation in Chemistry and Biology. *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 4804–4811.
- [60] Zhang, X.-P.; Wang, H.-Y.; Zheng, H.; Zhang, W.; Cao, R. O–O Bond Formation Mechanisms During the Oxygen Evolution Reaction over Synthetic Molecular Catalysts. *Chin. J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, 1253‒1268.
- [61] Zipp, C. F.; Michael, J. P.; Fernandes, M. A.; Mathura, S.; Perry, C. B.; Navizet, I.; Govender, P. P.; Marques, H. M. The Synthesis of a Corrole Analogue of Aquacobalamin (Vitamin B12a) and Its Ligand Substitution Reactions. *Inorg. Chem.* **2014**, *53*, 4418–4429.
- [62] Mahammed, A.; Giladi, I.; Goldberg, I.; Gross, Z. Synthesis and Structural Characterization of a Novel Covalently-Bound Corrole Dimer. *Chem. - Eur. J.* **2001**, *7*, 4259–4265.
- [63] Samanta, S.; Das, P. K.; Chatterjee, S.; Dey, A. Effect of Axial Ligands

- on Electronic Structure and O<sup>2</sup> Reduction by Iron Porphyrin Complexes: Towards a Quantitative Understanding of the "Push Effect". *J. Porphyrins Phthalocyanines* **2015**, *19*, 92–108.
- [64] Mittra, K.; Mondal, B.; Mahammed, A.; Gross, Z.; Dey, A. Dioxygen Bound Cobalt Corroles. *Chem. Commun.* **2017**, *53*, 877–880.
- [65] Yang, J.; Li, P.; Li, X.; Xie, L.; Wang, N.; Lei, H.; Zhang, C.; Zhang, W.; Lee, Y.-M.; Zhang, W.; Cao, R.; Fukuzumi, S.; Nam, W. Crucial Roles of a Pendant Imidazole Ligand of a Cobalt Porphyrin Complex in the Stoichiometric and Catalytic Reduction of Dioxygen. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202208143.

Manuscript received: May 11, 2023 Manuscript revised: June 25, 2023 Manuscript accepted: June 25, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: June 28, 2023 Version of record online: August 4, 2023

#### *The Authors*

**Left to Right:** (top) Yimei Gao, Benxing Mei, Yizhen Wu, Qian Zhao, Zijia Bao, Haonan Qin, Yuhan Xu (bottom) Haoyuan Lv, Xinyang Peng, Yan He, Ting Luo, Ran Yao, Wei Zhang, Haitao Lei, Rui Cao