---
source: Ghorui 等 - 2025 - Defect‐Engineered N‐Doped Graphene Oxide‐ZnWO4 Nanocuboids Advancing Oxygen Reduction an.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 98.157s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:44:30.041928Z
---

# **Defect-Engineered N-Doped Graphene Oxide-ZnWO4 Nanocuboids: Advancing Oxygen Reduction and Photo-Assisted Methanol Oxidation Reactions**

*Uday Kumar Ghorui,\* Gokul Sivaguru, Mukaddar Sk, Ranjit Thapa, MVR Akshay Sampath, and Sabyasachi Chakrabortty\**

**The development of direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs) relies on designing replacements for benchmark platinum (Pt)-based electrocatalysts toward methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) that exhibit high resistance to CO poisoning, improve kinetic sluggishness, devoid of unwanted intermediates, low catalyst cost, and wide operating conditions. This study presents the development of defect engineering N-doped graphene oxide (NG) supported ZnWO4 nanocuboids as an efficient catalyst for photoelectrochemical MOR and electrochemical ORR. Under visible light (420 nm), the NG/ZnWO4 nanohybrid exhibits exceptional photoelectrochemical MOR with low potential of 0.5V with a high oxidation peak current density of ≈10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is recorded while comparing with benchmark catalyst Pt/C. In two electrode systems for DMFC, the catalyst reaches an impressive maximum power production of 111 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with very stable charge-discharge cycles of 0.33 mV cycle<sup>−</sup>1, which is far superior to ZnWO4's alone. Simultaneously, the nanocomposite exhibits excellent ORR activity in alkaline medium with improved onset half-wave potential of 0.85V, high current density of 5.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1600 rpm, and robust stability, attributed to the synergistic effect between NG and ZnWO4. This work has reinforced these findings with theoretical insights using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) to assess both PMOR and ORR performance and reaction intermediates.**

U. K. Ghorui, G. Sivaguru, MV. A. Sampath, S. Chakrabortty Department of Chemistry SRM University – AP, Andhra Pradesh Guntur, Andhra Pradesh 522240, India

E-mail: [udaykumar.g@srmap.edu.in;](mailto:udaykumar.g@srmap.edu.in) [sabyasachi.c@srmap.edu.in](mailto:sabyasachi.c@srmap.edu.in)

U. K. Ghorui

Department of Chemistry Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology Shibpur, Howrah 711103, India

M. Sk, R. Thapa Department of Physics SRM University - AP, Andhra Pradesh Guntur, Andhra Pradesh 522240, India

R. Thapa Centre for Computational and Integrative Sciences SRM University−AP, Andhra Pradesh Amaravati, Andhra Pradesh 522240, India

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202505511>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202505511**

# **1. Introduction**

In a direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC), methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) and the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) would occur simultaneously where methanol could be converted into electricity for a portable and high-energy-density power source applications, such as mobile devices, vehicles etc.[\[1,2\]](#page-15-0) With their low operating temperature, minimal emissions, and impressive energy density (≈6100 Wh·kg<sup>−</sup>1), DM-FCs present a promising solution for powering portable electronics and distributed energy systems.[\[3\]](#page-15-0) However, slow reaction kinetics, mainly brought on by the intricate multi-electron transfer process and the creation of multiple sequential intermediates, severely reduce their efficiency. Also, the cost factor for the usage of benchmark Pt-group metal catalyst imposes additional bottleneck for this technology to be commercially viable.[\[4,5\]](#page-15-0) Addressing these challenges requires optimized catalysts efficacy, improved electrode designs, and strategic reaction pathway modifications to enhance overall performance and energy conversion

efficiency. Additionally, methanol stands out as a preferred fuel over hydrogen due to its affordability, widespread availability, and ease of transport and storage. Thus, significant barriers such as the high consumption of the noble metal platinum (Pt), along with its limited resistance to CO poisoning by blocking the active sites of the catalyst during catalysis either in MOR or ORR, are needed to be addressed.[\[4,6\]](#page-15-0) The accumulation of CO on the Pt catalyst surface significantly slows down the reaction kinetics of DMFCs. This poisoning effect prevents the overall performance, efficiency and stability of MOR and ORR. As a result, the sluggish reaction kinetics lead to lower power output and hinder the large-scale implementation of DMFC technology. To mitigate Pt's susceptibility to CO poisoning, various strategies have been developed, including alloying, heterostructure engineering, and phase engineering etc.[\[7–9\]](#page-15-0) These approaches work by tuning the metal d-band center and lowering the CO binding energy (BE) at the active sites, thereby facilitating CO removal by quick conversion to CO2 and significantly reducing the likelihood of catalyst poisoning.

modifying ZnWO4's surface properties or introducing dopants or compositing with doped C-moiety can help mitigate these issues. Researchers have explored different synthesis methods to enhance its stability and photocatalytic performance.[\[14,15\]](#page-15-0) Overcoming these limitations requires innovative strategies, such as surface modifications, protective coatings, or the integration of co-catalysts to improve their stability and performance. To address those, an exceptionally high percentage of surface

atoms in hetero atom doped C-moiety supported monoclinic ZnWO4 could envision as better catalytic active sites with high specific surface area. Additionally, for 3D nanostructured the carrier migration (or transport) is typically governed by the Nernst-Planck equation:[\[16\]](#page-15-0) J = qnnE + qDn∇n, where: q = elementary charge, n = electron density, <sup>n</sup> = mobility, Dn = diffusion coefficient, E = −∇ϕ = electric field. Here, charge carrier migration from the interior to the surface plays a crucial role in optimizing catalytic performance. This movement facilitates efficient charge separation, enhances surface reactions, and minimizes recombination losses, ultimately improving the overall activity of the material. Driven by these insights, a N-doped graphene oxide (GO) supported mixed metal oxide (NG/ZnWO4) approach was employed to explore the internal promotion mechanism for better MOR and ORR activity. A simple yet effective synthesis method was used to fabricate ZnWO4 nanocuboids on N-doped GO sheet, with NH3 and urea controlling the doping process. The composite underwent comprehensive physicochemical characterization to assess its structural and functional properties. To investigate MOR activity under light excitation and its interaction with OH<sup>−</sup>, NG/ZnWO4 nanocuboids were initially utilized as anodic electrode. The NG/ZnWO4 electrode demonstrated significantly enhanced photo-assisted electrocatalytic methanol oxidation, achieving improvements of nearly 2.5-fold under visible light irradiation (420 nm) compared to conventional electrocatalytic processes. The energy consumption was comparatively low (≈0.5V) with respect to 0.9V for benchmark catalyst Pt/C. Additionally, this system enhances overall stability and performance by enabling efficient methanol oxidation to carbon dioxide while effectively mitigating carbon monoxide poisoning at active catalytic sites. Also, the synergistic interaction between NG and ZnWO4 improves charge transfer dynamics and reaction kinetics, leading to impressive oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity in an alkaline medium. This is evidenced by an improved onset half-wave potential of 0.85V, a high current density of 5.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1600 rpm, and outstanding durability. The theoretically lower overpotential observed in NG/ZnWO4 highlights its promise as a potential candidate for both MOR and ORR activities, supported by insights from Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). This study highlights NG-supported ZnWO4 nanocuboids as an efficient dual-functional catalyst for energy conversion, especially in DMFCs, driving progress in fuel cell technology.

#### moved from the catalyst surface, converting it into CO2 in MOR kinetics. In this process, oxophilic phases capable of supplying sufficient OHad are essential, as they accelerate the oxidation of CO intermediates at nearby catalyst sites.[\[4\]](#page-15-0) This, in turn, promotes the renewed exposure of active sites, enhancing further methanol oxidation. Traditionally, improved catalytic activity has been achieved by alloying Pt with oxyphilic metals such as Csupported PtRu, leveraging this bifunctional mechanism to optimize performance.[\[4,5\]](#page-15-0) However, the ongoing challenges with stability and long-term performance hinder their widespread adoption, necessitating further research into more resilient materials and advanced catalytic strategies to enhance their robustness. In this context, an electronic synergistic interaction between intermetallic oxide and heteroatom doped C components has drawn research interest. While this approach enhances catalytic activity mainly due to the delayed oxidation of CO intermediates, the restricted exposure of active sites leading to the overall improvement in durability remains limited. In that respect, photoassisted direct methanol fuel cells (PDMFCs), an emerging advancement in DMFC technology, have recently gained significant attention.[\[10–12\]](#page-15-0) To enhance performance, PDMFCs integrate electrocatalytic and photocatalytic methanol oxidation, utilizing light-driven semiconductors as supporting materials. This innovative approach extends both catalytic mechanisms, improving efficiency and overall fuel cell functionality.

The OHad species plays a key role in oxidizing CO that has re-

When a semiconductor (SC) is exposed to light, it undergoes excitation, generating electron–hole pairs as electrons transition from the valence band (VB) to the conduction band (CB). The photogenerated electrons then travel toward the SC surface via the Schottky junction, where they facilitate the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> ions, resulting in the formation of SC–OHad species.[\[10,11\]](#page-15-0) For example, the adsorbed Pt–OHad species play a vital role in enabling the complete oxidation of COad intermediates and mitigating Pt surface poisoning. Simultaneously, the photogenerated holes, endowed with strong oxidative potential, can oxidize OH<sup>−</sup> ions to produce highly reactive hydroxyl radicals (OH).[\[10,12\]](#page-15-0) These surface-bound . OH radicals further enhance the photocatalytic oxidation of methanol, effectively suppressing COad accumulation on catalyst surface and thereby significantly improving its catalytic efficiency and stability. As a result, the enhancement of MOR activity is fundamentally reliant on OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption/desorption as well as the formation of . OH. Despite the existence of numerous light-assisted semiconductor fuel cell systems, there remains a significant lack of research specifically investigating the impact of . OH on the efficiency of methanol oxidation. This could lead to breakthroughs in catalytic performance and fuel cell advancements. In this regard, photoelectrodes such as Cu2O, CuInGaSe2, Cu2ZnSnS4, CuInS4, and InP attract significant interest due to their narrower band gap, which enhances significant light absorption.[\[13\]](#page-15-0) However, their practical application is often hindered by severe photocorrosion and high charge recombination rates, leading to reduced catalytic efficiency in alkaline environments. ZnWO4 is a promising photocatalyst, but it faces challenges in alkaline environments. Photocorrosion occurs when the material degrades due to prolonged exposure to light, reducing its stability and effectiveness. Additionally, high charge recombination rates can participate in catalytic reactions, leading to lower efficiency. Studies suggest that

### **2. Experimental Section**

A comprehensive experimental section has been provided in the Supporting Information detailing the chemicals and materials used, the synthesis of ZnWO4 nanocuboids, the preparation of graphene oxide (GO), and the methods for physical characterization.

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** Schematic synthesis process of N-doped GO composite ZnWO4 nanocuboid.

#### **2.1. Synthesis of One-Pot N-Doped GO-ZnWO4 Nanocomposite**

N-doped GO was synthesized by subjecting GO to 2 h of sonication in a 20 mL mixture of 3:1 H2O and ethanol (C2H5OH). The resulting mixture was transferred into a three-necked roundbottom flask (RB) equipped with a reflux condenser and an argonfilled balloon, as illustrated in **Scheme 1**. The reaction mixture was first degassed using a vacuum dryer and then carefully filled with argon gas while maintaining a temperature of ≈50 °C for 30 min. Subsequently, an aqueous solution containing 2 mL of 1M NH3 and 8 mL of 0.5M urea was added sequentially to the reaction mixture. It was then stirred at 80 °C for 1.5 h. The Ndoped GO was separated from the reaction aliquot by centrifugation, and after being dried at 60 °C overnight, it was subjected to standard physicochemical characterization.

Following this, a hot aqueous solution of ammoniacal 1 mmol Zn(NO3)2·6H2O, with its pH adjusted to 4–5, was introduced into the N-doped GO stock and stirred at a constant temperature for 15 min. Next, 1 mmol of Na2WO4·2H2O was added to the mixture. Reflux was carried out for an additional 4 h at an elevated temperature of 100 °C. Once the reaction mixture had cooled to room temperature, the product was collected via centrifugation and washed sequentially with water and a 1:1 ethanol-water mixture. Finally, the sample was dried overnight in a hot-air oven at 60 °C.

#### **2.2. Electrode Preparation**

For electrocatalytic Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and photoelectrocatalytic methanol oxidation reaction (MOR), the RRDE and L-shaped glassy carbon electrode (L-GCE) were polished with alumina powder and cleaned through ultrasonic treatment in a 1:1 ethanol-water mixture for 20 min. To prepare the working electrodes, ≈2.5 mg of nanoparticles were dispersed in a solution comprising 40 μL of 5% Sustanion and 960 μL of ethanol, followed by 1.5 h of ultrasonic agitation. A 10 μL portion of this suspension was then carefully applied to the polished RRDE glassy carbon disk and L-GCE surfaces, and dried in a hot-air oven at 50 °C for 2 h. For comparison, electrodes employing commercial 10%-Pt/C for ORR and MOR were prepared using the same methodology and mass loading (≈0.35 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2). The geometric surface areas of the RRDE were measured as 0.126 cm<sup>2</sup> for the disk and 0.071 cm<sup>2</sup> for the ring, while the L-GCE displayed a surface area of 0.071 cm2. The reference electrode was Ag/AgCl, and the counter electrode was a Pt Spring electrode.

#### **2.3. Electrochemical Measurement**

All electrochemical measurements were performed at room temperature using a CHI7014E electrochemical analyzer (CH Instrument, USA) equipped with a three-electrode system where, Pt-spring has been used as counter electrode. The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity was analyzed using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) setup on an RRDE-3A electrode rotator, offering valuable insights into the kinetics and efficiency of catalytic processes, evaluated through Koutecky-Levich (KL) plots.[\[23\]](#page-15-0) An O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution served as the electrolyte, with iR correction applied to obtain precise cyclic voltammetry (CV) and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves. Long-term stability testing for both ORR and methanol oxidation

www.small-journal.com

16136829, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.20255511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and the proposal of the conditions) on Wiley Online Library on (and the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal

reaction (MOR) were conducted using amperometric techniques. ORR was assessed at the half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$ , while MOR stability was evaluated at the oxidation peak potential, with constant current density maintained for 24 h. All the electrochemical potentials were reported on the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale using the equation:  $E_{\rm )RHE)} = E_{\rm )Ag/AgCl)} + 0.197 +$ 0.059pH ( $E^0_{Ag/AgCl)} = 0.197$  V, saturated with 4 M KCl). Photoelectrochemical MOR was conducted by solar light illumination. A 300 W xenon lamp was employed to simulate solar illumination, with a UV cut-off filter applied to enable measurements exclusively in the visible-light range ( $\lambda \ge 420$  nm).

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was performed at the onset potential of the electrocatalysts, with an AC amplitude spanning frequencies from 10<sup>5</sup> Hz to 1 mHz. The doublelayer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) was calculated from constant phase element (CPE) parameters using the equations: [17,18]

$$Y_0 = Q(i\omega)^n \tag{1}$$

$$C_{dl} = Q^{1/n} [1/R_s + 1/R_{ct}]^{(n-1)/n}$$
 (2)

Here,  $Y_n$  ( $\Omega^{-1}$ ) denotes conductance or capacitance, Q is the CPE constant, n (0 < n  $\leq$  1; n = 1 for an ideal capacitor) represents the consistency factor,  $\omega$  is angular frequency (rad s<sup>-1</sup>), R<sub>s</sub> is solution resistance ( $\Omega$ ), R<sub>ct</sub> is charge transfer resistance ( $\Omega$ ), and i is the imaginary number. This comprehensive analysis underscores the robustness and precision of the measurements conducted.

#### 2.4. Computational Details

To perform the first principles calculations, this work had employed Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP).[19] Herein, the projected augmented wave (PAW)[20] pseudopotential method was implemented to model the core electron interactions. To perform the structure, electronic and catalytic properties, we have considered Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional within the framework of generalized gradient approximation (GGA).<sup>[21]</sup> The structural optimization of all systems was carried out by using a kinetic energy cut off of 450 eV and the Brillouin zone was sampled via the Monkhorst-Pack scheme using a 3×3×1 K-point grid. Prior to the electronic and catalytic studies, all the systems were fully relaxed with an energy convergence threshold of 10<sup>-6</sup> eV and a force convergence criterion of 0.01 eV Å<sup>-1</sup>, which allowed each atom to settle until the Hellmann-Feynman forces reached the specified limit. To model the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nanostructure, we have employed a graphene oxide sheet and ZnWO<sub>4</sub> system having monoclinic structure with space group of P2/c. Further, this work had prepared a nano rod kind of structure of ZnWO4 by cleaving in (1 1 0) plane and its thickness was chosen in such a way as it contains 6 Zn, 6 W and 24 O atoms. Further, to ignore the interaction with periodic images, the vacuum was considered along the z-direction. Moreover, the thermodynamic stability of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> was verified by performing ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations at 300 K in canonical ensemble (NVT).[22]

#### 2.5. DMFC Test

Alkaline DMFC test was performed in H-cell two electrode set up where, the anode material was used by coating our nanocomposite NG/ZnWO4 on carbon paper. Commercially available 10%-Pt/C was used as cathode material. The catalyst ink was prepared by making slurry of 4 mg of catalyst and 25 wt% of acetylene black in a mixture of 10 µL Sustanion and 90 µL ethanol. The ink was then drop casted on the  $1 \times 2$  cm<sup>2</sup> carbon paper so that the effective area maintained 1 cm<sup>2</sup>. Fumasep FAA3-50 membrane was used as separator of the two compartments of H-cell which were filled with 0.1M KOH and 1M CH<sub>3</sub>OH. The fuel cell performance was measured by discharging test at room temperature.

#### 3. Results and Discussion

As illustrated in Scheme 1, to ensure efficient nitrogen doping into graphene oxide (GO) and optimize reaction kinetics, thermal stability, and ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nucleation in NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, sonicated GO was dispersed in a water-ethanol solution, degassed, and treated with argon at 50 °C, initially. This mild condition enhances GO activation for efficient doping. The temperature was then raised to 80 °C, where NH<sub>3</sub> gas, liberated from 1M NH<sub>3</sub> and decomposing urea, facilitated nitrogen incorporation, forming thin, sheet-like NG. Subsequently, ZnWO<sub>4</sub> precursors were introduced, and the mixture was refluxed at 100 °C for 4 h, ensuring crystalline ZnWO<sub>4</sub> anchoring on NG.[12,23] Separately, we have prepared ZnWO4 alone as a control where the comparison of (photo)electrochemical performances with the composite and benchmark catalysts were performed. We hypothesized that a synergistic interaction between NG and ZnWO<sub>4</sub> could be responsible for enhanced MOR and ORR performances that are illustrated later.

Structural, functional group identification, bonding states and surface chemical composition analysis of NG/ZnWO, were illustrated in **Figure 1**. As depicted in Figure 1a, the diffraction peaks of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> at 15.4°, 18.9°, 23.7°, 24.5°, 30.6°, 36.3°, 38.4°,  $41.1^{\circ}$ ,  $44.3^{\circ}$ ,  $45.9^{\circ}$ ,  $48.6^{\circ}$ ,  $50.2^{\circ}$ ,  $51.6^{\circ}$ ,  $53.6^{\circ}$ ,  $56.7^{\circ}$  and  $58.3^{\circ}$  corresponded to (010), (100), (011), (110), (111), (021), (200), (121), (112), (211), (022), (220), (130), (202), (212) and (013) planes of ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (Ref: 73–0554) with monoclinic phase and space group number of 13 which also agreed with the pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> presented in Figure S1a, Supporting Information. The Yobs and Y<sub>calc</sub> in Figure 1a are the experimental intensity obtained during the XRD technique, and the simulated intensity obtained during the Rietveld refinement process. The crystallite size and strain factor were determined using the Williamson-Hall (W-H) plot, which is commonly referred to as the uniform deformation model (UDM), as illustrated in Figure S1b, Supporting Information. The UDM plot holds notable significance in the calculation of crystallite size and strain parameters, as it accounts for their contribution to X-ray line broadening. In contrast, Scherrer's equation solely considers crystallite size, neglecting the influence of strain on the broadening effect. [24,25] Moreover, the positive slope in the UDM plot attributed to the tensile train (elongation), resulting in in cell expansion as shown in Table S1, Supporting Information.<sup>[18]</sup> In addition, a slight increase in lattice parameter and a subtle decrease in crystallite size NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> from control ZnWO<sub>4</sub> might be responsible for the effective

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Rietveld refined x-ray diffraction pattern of NG/ZnWO4 where high crystallinity of NG/ZnWO4 is observed. b) Enlarged image of diffraction pattern at 2 of 30.6° where the (002) pane and a subtle shift in peak relates to the successful integration of ZnWO4 on NG matrix. c) Raman spectra of the heterostructure reveals a greater ID/IG ratio which correlates to the defects and disorientation in the honeycomb structure of NG. d) Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra of ZnWO4, NG and NG/ZnWO4 substantiating the formation heterostructure. XPS spectra of e) W 4f, f) W 4d, and g) N 1s.

www.small-journal.com

16136829, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.20255511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (and the proposal of the conditions) on Wiley Online Library on (and the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal of the proposal

formation of heterointerface and generation of vacant sites.<sup>[26]</sup> Importantly, the presence of a distinct diffraction peak for graphitic carbon in Figure 1a, corresponding to the (002) plane at 28.7°, signifies the effective decoration of the ZnWO4 on NG sheets, leading to the formation of nano-heterostructure. Also, we observed a subtle shift in the main intense peak of  $NG/ZnWO_4$  (Figure 1b) toward higher  $2\theta$  angle, substantiating the successful formation of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nanocomposite with better crystallinity.<sup>[27]</sup> We believe that this distinctive heterointerface with photoactive material may open-up more active sites for proficient electron transfer rate and enhance the conductivity of the heterostructure. Furthermore, the heterostructure formation was validated through Raman spectra presented in Figure 1c. Generally, the typical peaks for ZnWO4 were observed in the range of 100 to 1000 cm $^{-1}$  out of which the  $A_{\sigma}$  modes were positioned at  $\approx$ 192,  $\approx$ 346,  $\approx$ 419,  $\approx$ 568, and  $\approx$ 900 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and the B<sub>o</sub> modes were projected at  $\approx$ 319,  $\approx$ 522, and  $\approx$ 756 cm<sup>-1</sup>.[28] In the case of wolframite monoclinic tungstate, two different kinds of vibrational modes were expected, that is, internal and external vibrational modes. The internal stretching vibrations were due to the WO<sub>6</sub> octahedrons which are observed at  $\approx$ 417 (A<sub>o</sub>),  $\approx$ 900 (A<sub>o</sub>), and  $\approx$ 761 cm<sup>-1</sup> (B<sub>a</sub>). In the framework of group theory, the tungstate structure was characterized by a total of 3N = 36 degrees of freedom, attributed to the 12 atoms contained within its unit cell, displayed in the equation 3.

$$\Gamma_{IR+Raman} = 8A_{\sigma} + 10B_{\sigma} + 8A_{u} + 10B_{u}$$
(3)

where A<sub>11</sub> and B<sub>21</sub> are vibrationally active modes in IR, and A<sub>2</sub> and B<sub>σ</sub> are the vibrationally active modes in Raman. Therefore, the Raman spectrum was anticipated to exhibit a total of 18 vibrationally active modes. However, not all the predicted lines were observed in the Raman spectra. Signals from 8 vibrational modes were successfully identified and compared with previously reported findings. [29,30] Consequently, we also observed the presence of D and G of NG in the Figure 1c at  $\approx$ 1328 and  $\approx$ 1607 cm<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. These bands were absent in the pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (presented in Figure S2a, Supporting Information). This indicates indirectly, the successful anchoring of ZnWO<sub>4</sub> on the honeycomb lattice of photoactive NG. Generally, the D band arises due to the presence of structural imperfection in the basal plane and G band arises due to the single crystalline sp2 hybridized carbon atom in honeycomb structure.[31] It is well-grounded that the ratio of intensity of these two bands provides the information about defects and dis-orientation due to the doping of a heteroatom. This can also be visualized from Figure S2b, Supporting Information, where the  $I_D/I_G$  ratio increased from 0.92 to 1.05 after the functionalization of N-atom in the honeycomb structure. In the NG-ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, the  $I_D/I_C$  furthermore increased to 1.12 signifying more defected lattice, ultimately enhancing the conductivity, promoting electron transfer rate and light harvesting property.[32,33]

Additionally, the FTIR measurement was executed with the aim of finding the functional groups present in the NG/ZnWO4. As stated earlier, there are 36 modes of vibrations out of which 18 are Raman active and the remaining are IR active. Out of these 18 modes of vibrations, 3 are acoustic vibrations and therefore can-

not be visualized in IR spectra. [28,30] Thus, eq. 3 can be re-written as equation 4:

$$\Gamma_{\rm IR} = 7A_{\rm u} + 8B_{\rm u} \tag{4}$$

Figure 1d revealed the FTIR spectra of ZnWO4, NG and  $NG/ZnWO_4$  where the peak positioned at  $\approx$ 598 and  $\approx$ 687cm<sup>-1</sup> in ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, attributed to the to the W-O bond of octahedral WO<sub>6</sub>. An additional peak observed ≈836 cm<sup>-1</sup> was attributed to the interaction occurring between Zn-O-W bonds, matched well with the reported literature.[34] Moreover, the peaks at  $\approx$ 3331 and  $\approx$ 3135 cm<sup>-1</sup> resembled to the vibrational transition of O-H and N-H groups, respectively. Furthermore, the stretching frequency of C=O and C=C were designated at ≈1653 and  $\approx$ 1554 cm<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, that were also present in the pristine GO and NG (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The peak centered at ≈1382 and ≈1026 cm<sup>-1</sup> in NG coincides with the stretching frequency of C-N and C-O. These peaks were also observed in the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> heterostructure, as additional proof for the successful incorporation of N to GO and thereby the formation of composite.[35,36]

Additionally, the chemical state of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> was examined through XPS analysis. The overall survey scan of the XPS spectra, included in the supporting information (Figure S4, Supporting Information), verified the presence of C, N, Zn, O, and W. The spin-orbit coupling of W  $4f_{5/2}$  and  $4f_{7/2}$  for  $ZnWO_4$  in Figure 1e can be fitted at 37.7 eV and 35.4 eV with peak separation of 2.3 eV confirming the presence of W in +6 oxidation state. [14,15] A peak arise at 37 eV might be due to W+5 indicating the co-existence of V/VI oxidation state in WO<sub>6</sub> octahedron which could also facilitate the electronic transition for electrocatalytic MOR/ORR. The peak aligned at 260.2 and 247.4 eV in Figure 1f features to the  $4d_{3/2}$  and  $4d_{5/2}$ , respectively, with peak spacing of 12.8 eV which verified the W in +6 state. In Figure 1g, the peak situated at 401.3, 399.6, and 398.2 eV indicated the graphitic, pyrrolic and pyridinic N – atoms, respectively.[37] Surprisingly, the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> also displayed same binding energies which is indicative of successful integration of ZnWO4 on to the NG sheet. This anchoring can be further visualized from the HRTEM and HRSEM images presented in **Figure 2**.

Figure 2 displayed the incorporation of ZnWO<sub>4</sub> on the NG sheets through electron microscopy images. It is clearly evident from Figure 2a that the ZnWO<sub>4</sub> exhibited cuboid – like shape and NG was present as sheet-like structure. The d-spacing obtained from Figure 2b aligned well with the diffraction pattern, where the lattice spacing of 0.567 nm and 0.363 nm relates to (010) and (110) planes of ZnWO4 in the nano-heterostructure. The average dimensions of the ZnWO<sub>4</sub> cuboid in NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> were calculated to be 28.8 nm in length (Figure S5a, Supporting Information) and 10.9 nm (Figure S5b, Supporting Information) in width. Figure 2c,d are the IFFT (Inverse Fast Fourier Transform) and FFT (Fast Fourier Transform), respectively. Corresponding grey scale values were shown in -Figure 2e,f from where the lattice spacing was calculated. Additionally, the lattice-spacing of 0.171 nm, 0.294 nm and 0.474 nm from SAED pattern (Figure 2g) correspond to (202), (100) and (111) planes of ZnWO<sub>4</sub> only, respectively, affirming the formation of nanocuboid on N-doped GO matrix. The HRTEM image of pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and pristine NG are presented in Figure S6a,e, Supporting Information where it is

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Transmission electron microscope (TEM) image of NG/ZnWO4 revealing the interfacial interaction between NG sheet and ZnWO4 cuboid. b) High resolution TEM image of heterostructure where the lattice spacing of 0.576 nm and 0.363 nm corresponds to the (010) and (110) plane. c) Inverse Fast Fourier Transform (IFFT), d) Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) and, e,f) gray scale value of (010) and (110) planes. g) The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of NG/ZnWO4 heterostructure where (202), (100) and (111) of ZnWO4. h) Scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of NG/ZnWO4 which substantiates the cuboid structure of ZnWO4 observed from TEM image. i) The EDX spectra of the synthesized heterostructure

clear that the cuboid like shape of ZnWO4 and sheetlike structure of NG was synthesized. The heterostructure is further shown in the SEM image presented Figure [2h](#page-6-0) where the resemblance of cuboid – like structure reflects the ZnWO4 and EDS spectra in Figure [2i](#page-6-0) substantiated the presence of Zn, W, O, N, C in the heterostructure. This integration of ZnWO4 onto a photoactive material, that is, NG was believed to not only improve the electrochemical performance but also activate photo-induced processes, thereby significantly enhancing the electrochemical and photoelectrochemical properties.

To confirm the effective loading of ZnWO4 onto the N-doped GO matrix for superior electrocatalytic activity toward ORR and PMOR, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) of NG/ZnWO4 was conducted and presented in Figure S7, Supporting Information. The TGA results provided insights into the composite's thermal stability and decomposition behavior. Specifically, distinct weight loss stages were observed between 100and 150 °C, corresponding to the removal of adsorbed moisture, and between 360 and 720 °C, attributed to the decomposition of organic components, primarily carbon and nitrogen in NG. Beyond 720 °C, the weight stabilizes, indicating the crystallization of ZnWO4. The in situ nucleation process resulted in a ZnWO4 loading of 65.6%, which enhances the material's structural stability and contributes to its observed catalytic performance.

To assess the photoactivity of NG/ZnWO4, DRS spectra of ZnWO4 and NG/ZnWO4 were compared in Figure [2j](#page-6-0) as normalized reflectance vs wavelength (nm) plot. Similarly, for NG and GO, the DRS spectra is depicted in Figure S8a, Supporting Information. The doping of N into Go was first confirmed through the DRS spectra where a clear change has been observed. The band gap of NG/ZnWO4 was obtained from DRS plot by employing Kubelka-Munk (KM) equation (eq. 5) and given in inset of Figure [2j.](#page-6-0)

$$F(R) = \frac{(1-R)^2}{2R} \tag{5}$$

where, R is the reflectance. A significant reduction in band gap after nitrogen doping was observed from Figure S8b, Supporting Information. This is due to the presence of – conjugation as well as various kinds of nitrogen bonding which includes pyridinic, pyrrolic and graphitic, resulting in shifts in Fermi energy level.[\[15\]](#page-15-0) This justified the shift in band gap toward the lower value observed in the case of NG/ZnWO4 heterostructure (Figure [2j\)](#page-6-0). The low band gap value suggested the minimum threshold energy required to excite an electron from ground state to excited state. The emission spectra in Figure [2k](#page-6-0) exhibited a strong peak centered at 490 nm for ZnWO4, attributing to the rapid recombination of self-trapped excitons which was typical for wolframite structure of ZnWO4. [\[14\]](#page-15-0) For NG, the PL intensity quenched due to the high conductivity (faster electron transport rate) and delocalized -electrons causing non-radiative recombination.[\[14\]](#page-15-0) Similarly, for NG/ZnWO4, the PL intensity quenched significantly higher, indicating the enhanced conductivity and delocalized electrons due to the successful integration of NG intro ZnWO4. This inhibited the radiative recombination of EH pair, thereby quenching the PL intensity. Also, the emission band shape can be described to the interaction between the O 2p orbital and vacant W 5d orbital.[\[14\]](#page-15-0) Interestingly, we observed the bifurcation of ZnWO4 490 nm emission peaks into two new peaks at 474 nm and 505 nm in NG/ZnWO4. We hypothesized that this might be due to the interface-induced surface defect, creating a new center with distinct energy levels for the recombination of EH pair, resulting in additional emission peaks.[\[14,15\]](#page-15-0) To validate this hypothesis, the excitation and emission spectra of NG/ZnWO4 were measured and found that a characteristic peak for ZnWO4 arise at 440 nm as represented in Figure [2l.](#page-6-0) It was typically attributed to the blue luminescence arising from radiative recombination of self-trapped excitons (STEs) or defectrelated states. Additionally, to perceive the energy transfer process and interaction between the electronic states, we have performed time resolved photo luminescence (TRPL) for all the material as depicted in Figure [2m.](#page-6-0) In general, all the materials displayed a biexponential decay with an average decay lifetime of 12.1 ns, 7.2 ns and 4.2 ns for NG/ZnWO4, ZnWO4 and NG, respectively. This average lifetime of the samples was influenced by direct recombination (1) and defect state recombination (2), with their respective amplitudes represented as a1, and a2 and the values were tabulated in Table S2, Supporting Information. The integration of ZnWO4 into the NG matrix has been successfully achieved, leading to an enhanced photoluminescence (PL) lifetime, improved electron transfer kinetics, and increased electronic conductivity, thereby elevating the electrochemical as well as the photoelectrochemical activity of NG/ZnWO4. Additionally, N-doping in graphene nanostructures would impart ideal bandgap engineering in visible region, enhanced charge separation for better catalytic activities, creation of active catalytic sites, and structural synergism.

### **3.1. Electrochemical ORR Performance**

The electrocatalytic performance and durability of the nanohybrid, ORR efficiency for DMFC applications were studied using the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) method. First, the ORR activity for the composite material has been conducted in acidic medium (0.1M H2SO4) as shown in Figure S9a, Supporting Information. However, stability and sluggish kinetics limit its effectiveness compared to platinum-based catalysts. As shown in Figure S9a, Supporting Information, the LSV polarization curve lacked a stable limiting current, making half-wave potential (E1/2) inapplicable for fuel cell applications. The inset image of cyclic voltammograms (CV) further confirmed the composite's instability in acidic conditions as the reduction peak gets

confirming the presence of Zn, W, O, C, and N. j) The diffused reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) curve displaying the photoactivity of the NG/ZnWO4 where the bandgap was calculated and presented as the inset plot. k) Compared Emission spectra of ZnWO4, NG and NG/ZnWO4 where the decrease in PL intensity was observed which relates to the enhancement in conductivity and presence delocalized -electrons due to the successful integration of NG intro ZnWO4. l) The excitation and emission spectra of NG/ZnWO4 where the excitation wavelength was found to be 391 nm and emission wavelength was found to be 505 nm. m) Time resolved photoluminescence (TRPL) spectra of ZnWO4, NG and NG/ZnWO4 where the increase in lifetime was observed after the successful anchoring of ZnWO4 onto the NG matrix.

16138289, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202505511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Ferms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are gover

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Cyclic voltammogram of NG/ZnWO $_4$  in 0.1M KOH saturated with N $_2$  and O $_2$  gases. b) Linear sweep voltammogram of ZnWO $_4$ , NG/ZnWO $_4$  and 10%-Pt/C at 1600 rpm at scan rate of 5 mV S $^{-1}$  to understand the E $_{onset}$  and E $_{1/2}$ . c) LSV polarization curve of NG/ZnWO $_4$  at different rotational speed of 100 to 2500 rpm for ORR activity. d) K-L plots of NG/ZnWO $_4$  at different potential. e) Tafel plots of ZnWO $_4$ , NG/ZnWO $_4$  and Pt/C at the potential range of E $_{onset}$  to E $_{1/2}$  to understand the kinetics of the catalysts during ORR. f) K-L plot of the catalysts at 0.4 V to calculate kinetic current. g) EIS Nyquist plot of ZnWO $_4$  and NG/ZnWO $_4$ ; inset: equivalent circuit diagram after fitting the EIS plot and an enlarged form of EIS at the high frequency range. h) LSV polarization curve of ZnWO $_4$ , NG/ZnWO $_4$  and Pt/C presenting both the ring and disk current density at 1600 rpm to understand the formation of percentage of H $_2$ O $_2$  production during ORR processes. i) Chronoamperometric stability of ZnWO $_4$ , NG/ZnWO $_4$  and Pt/C at E $_{1/2}$  potential of the corresponding catalysts; inset: change in E $_{1/2}$  potential of NG/ZnWO $_4$  after 8000 CV cycles.

diminished with increasing CV cycles. Therefore, the CVs of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> were performed in N<sub>2</sub>- and O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte at a sweep rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> under ambient conditions (**Figure 3a**). A noticeable increase in reduction peak current was observed in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte compared to N<sub>2</sub>-saturated KOH solution suggesting the presence of ORR behavior. NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> exhibited a higher peak current (–1.1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) than pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (–0.34 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (–0.55 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) as described in Figure S9b,c, Supporting Information, highlighting its superior ORR activity. The CV curves revealed a distinct O<sub>2</sub> reduction peak ( $\approx$ 0.9 V), significantly higher than those of ZnWO<sub>4</sub> or Pt/C alone, attributed to the high surface area and electrocatalytic activities of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>. In comparison, all catalysts showed less prominent peaks in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated KOH. In particular, this enhanced ORR activity

of porous carbon-based catalysts (i.e., the presence of NG) has already been reported due to the reduction of  $O_2$  on their high-surface-area nanostructure. [18,38] The onset redox potentials shifted higher in the order from ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (0.64 V) < to Pt/C (0.89 V)  $\approx$  to NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (0.9 V), confirming the enhanced electrocatalytic performance of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nano-hybrid due to synergism in ZnWO<sub>4</sub>'s cuboid nanostructures anchored onto NG sheets. The ZnWO<sub>4</sub> crystals exhibited a robust synergistic interaction with the NG support, significantly contributing to improved fuel cell durability. Moreover, the integration of nitrogen atoms into graphene sheets played a vital role in enhancing catalytic efficiency, leveraging active sites and boosting overall electrocatalytic performance. [39–41] In general, nitrogen doping in graphene enhanced catalytic efficiency through active sites (pyridinic, graphitic, pyrrolic). Quantum mechanical studies further

16136829, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20255511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) of the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/te

support these improvements, showcasing enhanced electrontransport kinetics toward ORR.[39-42] To evaluate the potential efficiency of catalysts for ORR, the half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  serves as a crucial indicator, reflecting the active sites and effectiveness of surface reactions within hybrid catalysts. Consequently, ORR activities were assessed through LSV analysis of the catalysts in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (as shown in Figure 3b). The findings demonstrate that the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> catalyst exhibited a higher half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2} \approx 0.85 \text{ V}$ ) alongside improved diffusion-controlled kinetics and limiting current. These performance metrics surpass those of the ZnWO<sub>4</sub> catalyst ( $E_{1/2} \approx 0.69$  V) and Pt/C catalyst ( $E_{1/2} \approx 0.825$  V), indicating enhanced ORR activity attributed to the efficient integration of NG with the ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nanostructure and its advantageous surface morphology.[12,23] The NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> demonstrated the most effective electrical synergism between the ZnWO4 and NG interfaces as can been interpreted from Figure 2a, indicated by its highly positive onset potential and E<sub>1/2</sub> value. These excellent electrochemical characteristics established our electrocatalyst as a strong contender while comparing with the high-cost Pt/C benchmark. Additionally, the limiting current density  $(J_I)$ for NG/ZnWO4 was notably high within the potential range of 0.6-0 V vs. RHE, as depicted in the LSV curve. The maximum diffusion current density was observed within this potential region during the RDE measurement, indicating that the electrode surface experienced the highest reduction of oxygenated species. [43–45] Additionally, the higher J<sub>1</sub> value for NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, in comparison to ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and Pt/C, suggested superior conductivity at the metal tungstate-defect engineered GO interface and its active basal plane, which significantly boosted its electrochemical ORR performance.

A powerful method for investigating oxygen reduction pathways in electrolytic solutions involves analyzing the kinetic behavior of the ORR reaction. To this end, ORR polarization curves were utilized to study the kinetic response of catalysts in O<sub>2</sub>saturated 0.1 M KOH solution across rotation speeds ranging from 100 rpm to 2500 rpm, at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The limiting current densities of NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, as illustrated in Figure 3c, along with ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and 10% Pt/C (Figure S10a,b, Supporting Information), exhibited a significant rise with increasing rotation speeds. This increase was linked to the enhanced surface activation of the catalysts and improved adsorption of O<sub>2</sub> or oxygenated intermediates, resulting from stronger electrodeelectrolyte interaction.<sup>[40,45]</sup> The Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equation was applied to determine reaction pathways and the number of electrons transferred (n) during ORR from these polarization curves. A clear demonstration of first-order kinetics was observed for all the materials that is, NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, and Pt/C, which was further indicated by the linear correlation between the inverse square root of rotational speeds ( $\omega^{-1/2}$ ) and the inverse of current density (j<sup>-1</sup>), as depicted in Figure 3d, Figure S10c,d, Supporting Information, respectively. This analysis pointed out the efficient electron transport and catalytic performance of the materials studied. The number of electrons transferred for NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> was determined to be 4.02 (average value) in the potential range of 0-0.6 V vs. RHE in order to enable effective reduction of oxygen molecules. This value was marginally superior to the commercial Pt/C catalyst (3.95) and much greater than that of ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (2.96). This implies that, in comparison to both ZnWO<sub>4</sub>

and the commercially available benchmark catalyst (Pt/C), the reduction of O2 to OH- through H2O2 production was more pronounced in the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> electrode. [12,46] An electron transfer number exceeding 4 can arise under specific conditions, primarily due to sequential electron transfer events, multi-step reduction processes, or secondary reactions. This phenomenon is often facilitated by highly active catalytic sites and the involvement of additional redox-active species, which enhance charge transfer dynamics and reaction kinetics.<sup>[46,47]</sup> The two main methods for explaining and modeling the ORR performances are - (a) first-principles-based microkinetic models, which compute the rate-determining steps of the basic processes involved in ORR using quantum mechanics, and (b) empirical models based on the Tafel equation, which are verified by experimental calibration and results from the literature. The first-principal method has been explored and explained in the theoretical section of this article. Empirical models showed that lower Tafel slopes indicated better electrocatalytic performance, while higher slopes signified stronger polarization and less favorable catalytic activity. In comparison to the commercial 10% Pt/C catalyst (131 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> showed a remarkably lower Tafel slope of 77 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3e) where the pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> had the Tafel slope of 186 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. This reduced Tafel slope demonstrated NG/ZnWO4's superior ORR kinetic performance where the electrolyte ions had a shorter transport pathway to the electrode, indicating extremely efficient ORR kinetics and better active sites for improved electrocatalytic efficiency.

A representative linear K-L plot was generated for each electrode, as shown in Figure 3f, to examine the difference in kinetic current (J<sub>k</sub>) between the NG-supported ZnWO<sub>4</sub> electrode and ZnWO<sub>4</sub> at 0.4 V vs. RHE. The intercept of the linear plot of J<sup>-1</sup> vs  $\omega^{-1/2}$  was used to get the value of  $J_k$ . The kinetic currents of the catalysts and the electron transfer numbers during the ORR processes were displayed in a bar diagram, as shown in Figure S11a, Supporting Information. The composition of defect-engineered NG-supported ZnWO<sub>4</sub> was clearly the one with the highest J<sub>k</sub> value (≈1.3–1.4 times than the pristine ZnWO₄ and commercial Pt/C), the highest electron transfer number, and a reasonably low Tafel slope. These characteristics highlighted NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>'s suitability as an effective electrode material for metal-air batteries or fuel cells. Additionally, calculations were performed in the potential range of 0.1 V to 0.6 V vs. RHE in order to evaluate the electron transfer rate constant (Figure S11b, Supporting Information). The findings validated NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>'s superior electrocatalytic performance over ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and Pt/C while increasing the limiting potential the electron transfer rate constant increased for NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, but for other two catalysts this value gradually decreased. This indicated that more OH- ions were getting adsorbed/desorbed quickly on the active defect site of the material when higher electrode potential is applied.

Electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), which correlates with double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ), was evaluated using Figures S12, Supporting Information to analyze the surface features of the electrodes. Within the non-Faradic region,  $C_{\rm dl}$  values were determined using the cyclic voltammetry (CV) method (Figure S12a–c, Supporting Information) at varying scan rates (10 to 120 mV s $^{-1}$ ) in the non-Faradic potential range of respective electrocatalysts. From Figure S12d, Supporting Information, the NG/ZnWO $_4$  composite exhibited a  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of 14.3 mF cm $^{-2}$ ,

16136829, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.20255511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) of the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/te

surpassing those of  $ZnWO_4$  (4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (7.2 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating that the composite electrode material provided the highest electrode-electrolyte interface's charge storage capacity. ECSA was then calculated by dividing C<sub>dl</sub> by the specific capacitance (C<sub>s</sub>), fixed at 40 µF cm<sup>-2</sup> in 0.1 M KOH. The NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> catalyst demonstrated the highest ECSA value of 102.14 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> among the other two catalysts (ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (28.57 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and Pt/C (51.42 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>)) which highlighted its better active surface accessibility. In addition, the charge transfer resistance (R<sub>ct</sub>), derived from the Nyquist plot of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), was displayed in Figures 3g. By applying the Randle's equivalent circuit model for electron transfer kinetics, the fitted Nyquist plots demonstrated a progressive decrease in R<sub>ct</sub> values with the composition of NG, reaching the lowest point for NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> (as shown in inset of Figure 3g). Compared to ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, which exhibited an R<sub>ct</sub> of 167  $\Omega$ , the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> electrode showed the smallest semicircle in the Nyquist plot, with an  $R_{ct}$  of 86  $\Omega$ , highlighting its excellent conductivity and thus superior electrical activity. We believe that the adsorption rates of OH- and molecular O2 were enhanced by the improved electrical conductivity and accelerated electron transfer rates at the electrode-electrolyte interface. [47] As the double-layer charge capacitance (Cd1) rose and the charge transfer resistance (Rct) dropped, the catalysts exhibited better electrochemically active surface area (ECSA). The synergistic interplay between ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and NG, characterized by increased C<sub>dl</sub> and reduced R<sub>ct</sub>, contributed to a higher density of accessible active micropores on the electrode surface. This electronic synergism further demonstrates the influence of the HO<sub>2</sub> - production rate at the electrode surface, as derived from the ring current density of the catalysts during the ORR processes. As mentioned previously the electron transfer number for ZnWO<sub>4</sub> is 2.96 which reflects the simultaneous growth of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub>O (probable mechanistic pathway has been provided in Supporting Information). [12,23] The RRDE polarization curve, depicting ring and disk current at the electrode surface under applied potential (Figure 3h), further supported the finding that minimal H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production occurs on the disk electrode surface. Figure \$13, Supporting Information demonstrated an analysis of the H2O2 yield percentage and the electron transfer number on the active surface during ORR for each catalyst. Notably, pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> displays a gradual increase in H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production with rising potential, whereas the composite nanocuboid demonstrates a declining trend, with an average H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production of only 3.4%. Therefore, the oxygen reduction process follows a four-electron mechanism, as evidenced by the minimal  $H_2O_2$  yield and the calculated electron transfer number of  $\approx 4.0$ .

One of key assessments of the electrode stability and durability is essential for the advancing clean energy solutions such as DMFC fuel cell. Also, stable and efficient electrocatalysts are crucial, as the sluggish kinetics and high overpotential of the ORR limit device performance. Thus, stability and durability of the electrodes were assessed using LSV analysis before and after 8000 CV cycles. Notably, NG/ZnWO4 exhibited a minimal increase of 13 mV in  $E_{1/2}$  even after 8000 CV cycles (inset of Figure 3i), although  $E_{1/2}$  increased for all samples, including 10% commercial Pt/C (17 mV, Figure S14b, Supporting Information). Furthermore, NG/ZnWO4 experienced a significantly smaller increase in  $E_{1/2}$  and  $E_{onset}$  compared to the ZnWO<sub>4</sub> catalyst (Figure S14a, Supporting Information) demonstrated remarkable stability under these conditions. As shown in Figure 3i, a 24-h chronoamperometric test at 0.9V vs. RHE revealed that NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> exhibited significantly better stability than Pt/C, which showed a larger drop in current density. The poor stability and electrocatalytic activity of Pt/C may result from Pt nanoparticle aggregation on the amorphous carbon surface or the corrosive nature of Pt during the formation of oxides/hydroxides in the ORR process.[48]

#### 3.2. Photoelectrochemical Methanol Oxidation Reaction

Photoelectrochemical methanol oxidation (PMOR) is a fascinating process for renewable energy solution that involves the oxidation of methanol upon light incident on an electrode. Pt/C has widely been used for an electrocatalyst toward hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), ORR and MOR however, their usefulness as photocatalyst is largely not utilized due to low light activities. Also, other nanohybrids were demonstrated as potential PMOR catalyst in the literature, but they generally suffer from high cost, CO poisoning and relatively low photoactivity.[11] To minimize surface poisoning during the MOR, the removal of neutral CO formed alongside other unwanted oxygenated species—is essential. Generally, the energy required for its dissociative desorption falls within the range of 2.2 to 3.0 eV, corresponding to visible and near-UV light.[49] Interestingly, our NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> showed excitation spectra at that region. In this study, the catalyst was deposited onto an L-shaped glassy carbon electrode (GCE), and a three-electrode cell was assembled within a quartz glass vessel to prevent light scattering, as illustrated in **Figure 4**a. Initially, cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were conducted in 0.1M KOH for all three catalysts without light exposure, as shown in Figure S15a, Supporting Information. The results indicate that the Pt/C electrode exhibited the highest current density during the CV profile, confirming its superior electroactivity for energy conversion applications. However, when exposed to 1M CH<sub>3</sub>OH, the NG/ZnWO4 catalyst demonstrated a remarkable enhancement in current response, nearly tenfold compared to its performance in 0.1M KOH, as depicted in Figure S15b, Supporting Information. This response depicted more (photo)electro activity toward methanol than the benchmark catalyst, Pt/C. Besides the current response, oxidation and a reduction peak raised at 0.54 and 0.28V, respectively, while for Pt/C these peaks are observed at 0.9 and 0.67V. This result demonstrated that our nanocomposite requires 360 mV less energy to oxidize methanol to CO<sub>2</sub> than Pt/C under appropriate light illumination. While light illumination with Xearc light (using a cut-off filter of 420 nm) the current response for  $NG/ZnWO_4$  increased  $\approx 2.25$  times as shown in Figure 4b. When comparing light and without light source as depicted in Figure 4c, our composite nanocuboid exhibited a further decrease in oxidation potential of 40 mV during MOR in 0.1M KOH solution. For other two catalysts (pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub> and benchmark Pt/C, Figure S15c,d, Supporting Information) no such phenomenon was noticed with a slight increase in current density as well as oxidation peak potential were observed. More precisely, in presence of light, sole ZnWO<sub>4</sub> has no prominent peak current change except a current increase in higher potential. Moreover, under visible light exposure, the NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nanocomposite exhibits exceptional photosensitivity and photostability in methanol (Figure 4d). The

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Photoelectrochemical MOR: a) Schematic representation of a three-electrode cell set up for photoelectrochemical MOR experiments. b) CV of ZnWO4, NG/ZnWO4 and Pt/C electrode in 0.1M KOH + 1M CH3OH solution at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with visible light irradiation. c) CV of NG/ZnWO4 in 0.1M KOH and 1M CH3OH mixture with light illumination and without light illumination. d) Chronoamperometric photo responses of the electrocatalysts under light on/off at the corresponding anodic peak potential. e) Bar diagram of specific and mass activity of ZnWO4, NG/ZnWO4 and Pt/C electrodes. f) CVs of NG/ZnWO4 catalyst at different scan rate under light illumination for the diffusion control reaction. g) Linear plot of peak current response vs. square root of scan rate. h) Chronoamperometric stability test of NG/ZnWO4 and Pt/C for 6 h in 0.1M KOH and 1M CH3OH mixture. i) Accelerating durability test (ADT) of ZnWO4, NG/ZnWO4 and commercial Pt/C.

control Pt/C catalyst did not show any such behavior as observed from the flat line presented in the spectrum. A repeating pattern under light on or off conditions, unambiguously confirmed the exceptional light mediated MOR for our nanocomposite. The PMOR for NG/ZnWO4 nanocomposite was evaluated using hole scavengers such as EDTA and electron scavenger K2Cr2O7 to probe the oxidation mechanism. EDTA, a strong hole scavenger, confirmed the role of photogenerated holes in the oxidation process, while K2Cr2O7 serves as an electron acceptor, facilitating charge separation and improving reaction kinetics. The experimental results as depicted in Figure S16a,b, Supporting Information, indicated that the presence of EDTA significantly suppresses the oxidation current, confirming hole-driven oxidation as the dominant pathway. These findings highlighted the synergistic effect of NG/ZnWO4 in promoting methanol oxidation through efficient hole transfer mechanisms. This result obtained for NG/ZnWO4 could be due to a proper band alignment as calculated from the Mott-Schottky analysis (Figure S17a–c and Table S3, Supporting Information, an explanation has been mentioned in Supporting Information) and the electronic transition during light illumination (Figure S18a,b, Supporting Information). This enhanced performance was largely attributed to its high charge carrier density and an optimally positioned band gap.[\[50\]](#page-16-0) When visible light illuminates the electrode surface, charge separation occurred between the valence band (VB) and the conduction band (CB). Electrons in the CB migrated through the circuit, generating photocurrent, while the holes in the VB led the photoelectrochemical (PEC) oxidation of methanol.[\[11,51\]](#page-15-0) As the PEC potential increases beyond the initial value, charge separation became more efficient, with continuously enhancing the overall redox reaction.[\[52\]](#page-16-0) Consequently, this process resulted in a substantial increase in photocurrent density. Additionally, the mass

activity which was normalized to the mass of the catalyst and specific activity which referred to the catalytic activity normalized to the ECSA of NG/ZnWO4 were graphically represented in Figure [4e.](#page-11-0) In this study both the activity has been calculated at the oxidation peak potential of the corresponding electrode. The mass activity of NG/ZnWO4 was 2.5 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C and ≈34 times greater than that of ZnWO4. The specific activity of NG/ZnWO4 was obtained 9.4 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, a nearly 2.3 times of Pt/C and 25 times of pristine ZnWO4. Thus, a greater enhancement compared to ECSA (as mentioned previously in Figure S12, Supporting Information), indicated that the improved electrocatalytic performance resulted from both the increased ECSA and enhanced reaction kinetics. Previous research suggested that the synergistic interaction between metal oxide nanoparticles and C-moiety in a C-supported metal oxide nanocomposite can significantly boost metal oxide's electrocatalytic efficiency while enhancing its durability against CO-like intermediate poisoning.[\[6,53\]](#page-15-0) In this context, the ratio of forward scan (If) to backward scan (Ib) peak current density is commonly used to assess a catalyst's tolerance to poisoning. During the forward scan, methanol oxidation generates carbon-based intermediates such as CO\* and COOH\*, which become adsorbed on the catalyst's surface. The backward scan subsequently facilitates the further oxidation of these intermediates.[\[6,9\]](#page-15-0) Consequently, the If:Ib ratio acts as an indicator of MOR activity, with a higher ratio implying more efficient oxidation of intermediates in the forward scan, leaving fewer residual species for oxidation in the backward scan. This factor was evident in the high specific and mass activity observed in our study.

To assess the effect of scan rate on the electron transfer mechanism and chemical kinetics during the photo electro-oxidation of methanol on the surface of NG/ZnWO4 catalyst, CVs were performed in 0.1M KOH and 1M CH3OH mixture at different scan rate ranging from 10 – 100 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> as depicted in Figure [4f.](#page-11-0) The cyclic voltammetry (CV) results indicated that as the scan rate increased, both oxidation and reduction peak currents progressively rose. This demonstrated the influence of scan rate on the electro-oxidation process occurring at the electrode surface. Furthermore, the Randles–Sevcik equation[\[47\]](#page-16-0) [Ip = (2.69 × 105) ACD1/2n3/21/2] was applied to generate a calibration curve (Figure [4g\)](#page-11-0) by plotting peak current against the square root of the scan rate. The regression equation and correlation coefficient confirmed the linearity of the calibration curve. This linearity suggested that the electrochemical oxidation process is primarily governed by a diffusion-controlled mechanism rather than a surface-controlled reaction.

Durability is one of the key considerations in catalyst performance. As shown in Figure [4h,](#page-11-0) chronoamperometry measurements at 0.5 V for NG/ZnWO4 and 0.9 V for Pt/C revealed that NG/ZnWO4 catalysts exhibit significantly higher initial current densities and stability compared to Pt/C. After 6h durability tests the loss of relative current density was observed only about 3% for NG/ZnWO4 while 13% for Pt/C even after 3 h. Additionally, an accelerated durability test (ADT) was conducted within a potential range of 0.4–1.0 V over 6000 cycles, as depicted in Figure [4i.](#page-11-0) After 2000 cycles, the commercial Pt/C catalyst experienced a substantial decline, losing 18% of its initial ECSA. Over the subsequent 4000 cycles, an additional 35% reduction occurred, leaving only 47% of its original ECSA after 6000 ADT cycles. In contrast, NG/ZnWO4 catalysts demonstrated significantly greater stability. After 6000 ADT cycles, NG/ZnWO4 retained 57.4%, while ZnWO4 retained only 16% of their initial ECSA, respectively. This result corroborated with the post-testing MOR activity of NG/ZnWO4 by CV test after 6000 cycles as shown in Figure S19, Supporting Information. After the 6000 CV cycle, the minimal loss of current density for both the peaks confirms the photo induced MOR activity of NG/ZnWO4 catalyst was exhibiting the highest stability.[\[54\]](#page-16-0) Even with remarkable electrochemical MOR electrolysis, it is important to remember that the aspects of catalyst surface rebuilding after catalyst recovery. After ADT, the structure and morphology of the composite nanocuboid NG/ZnWO4 was observed from TEM, HRTEM and FESEM images as shown in Figure S20, Supporting Information. The structural and chemical composition of NG/ZnWO4 remained nearly unaltered, as observed in the TEM (Figure S20a, Supporting Information) and HRTEM (Figures S20b, Supporting Information) images captured after 6000 CV cycles of ORR/PMOR operations, as well as following a chronoamperometric stability test. Additionally, the inset image of Figure S20b, Supporting Information, the inverse FFT image, clearly demonstrated the coexistence of lattice planes for ZnWO4. Though the compositional reformation was observed after all the electrochemical activities, the nature of the nanocuboid of ZnWO4 mostly lost its morphology showing its deactivation of surface reconstruction, which is also as noticed from the FESEM image, Figure S20c, Supporting Information. Indirectly, this observation proved the role of NG to get a stable catalyst after their performances and later, for reusability.

**Figure <sup>5</sup>**[a](#page-13-0) presented the optimized structure of NG/ZnWO4 which clearly indicated the presence of bonding between the host NG sheer and ZnWO4 nanocuboid confirming the presence of chemical interaction between them through charge exchange process. Also, we have calculated the root mean square deviation (RMSD) of NG/ZnWO4 through ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations at 300 K as shown in Figure [5b](#page-13-0) which clearly demonstrated its dynamic stability due to ignorable fluctuation of the same. Further, to understand the methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) activity of NG/ZnWO4, we have calculated the free energy profile through the well-known path CH3OH→ \*CH3O → \*CH2O→ \*CHO→ \*CO → \*CO+\*OH → CO2 as shown in Figure [5c.](#page-13-0) Interestingly, it clearly indicated that 1→ 2, 2→ 3, 3→ 4 and 4→ 5 were spontaneous in nature. In contrast, \*CO → \*CO+\*OH and CO+\*OH → CO2 were endothermic where the CO → \*CO+\*OH step was believed to be the potential determine step with the value of 0.51 eV. Furthermore, \*CHO→ \*CO step showed the modest release of energy of 0.69 eV which indicated the less poisoning effect of the catalyst by CO as required for MOR activity.[\[55\]](#page-16-0) Also, the higher interaction of OH with catalyst than the CO intermediate was also clearly demonstrated from the charge density difference plot as shown in Figure [5d](#page-13-0) possible due to the higher amount of charge accumulation between the bond length of O and Zn (catalyst) during OH adsorption. Further we have calculated the binding energy of CO and OH with the below equation

$$E_{B} = E_{Sur/Ad} - (E_{sur} + E_{ad})$$
 (6)

where ESur/Ad is the energy of the catalyst after intermediate adsorption. On the other hand, Esur is the energy of the catalyst

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) The optimized structure of NG/ZnWO4 nanocomposite, b) RMSD plot, c) MOR free energy profile of NG/ZnWO4, respectively whereas d) represents the charge density difference of NG/ZnWO4 after OH (top) and CO (bottom) adsorption, e) binding energy of CO and OH, f–h) presented the partial density of states of Zn catalyst before and after CO, OH adsorption, respectively. i) shows the ORR free energy profile of NG/ZnWO4.

before intermediate adsorption and EB is the binding of the adsorb molecule. The binding energy of OH (ΔEOH) and CO (ΔECO) were investigated and shown in Figure 5e with the ΔEOH and ΔECO values of−1.73 and−1.21 eV, respectively. The negative and lower ΔEOH indicated that OH intermediate could strongly interact with the catalyst. Furthermore, we have calculated the partial density of catalyst (Zn) before and after CO and OH adsorption as presented in Figure 5f–h which clearly shown a significant shift of d-band center (d) after CO and OH adsorption toward Fermi-level, indicating the charge transfer interactions between catalyst and intermediates.[\[56\]](#page-16-0) However, a shift of <sup>d</sup> after OH adsorption indicated the strong interaction between OH and catalyst. Altogether, this study revealed that CO will be weakly binding but OH will be strongly bound with catalyst which is ideally required to perform MOR with high efficiency where OH could easily replace the attached CO. To explore the formation of potential byproducts in the MOR, we conducted a comprehensive free energy profile analysis across multiple reaction pathways (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Our findings reveal that, alongside CO2 and H2O, formic acid can emerge as an intermediate. This occurs due to its moderate adsorption energy of −0.61 eV on the catalyst surface, which facilitates its stability under certain reaction conditions. However, the adsorbed gaseous formic acid ultimately undergoes oxidation, leading to its conversion into CO2. [\[56,57\]](#page-16-0) This final oxidation step ensures complete mineralization, aligning with the overall reaction mechanism. Furthermore, we have performed the ORR activity of NG/ZnWO4 through free energy profile calculations as shown in Figure 5i. It is worth noting that the ORR activity may proceed via following pathway: ∗ +O2 → OOH<sup>∗</sup> → O<sup>∗</sup> → OH<sup>∗</sup>→<sup>∗</sup> + H2O. The detailed investigation showed that 3→ 4 was the PDS due to the highest uphill with the overpotential in ORR value of 0.41 V. The obtained lower overpotential (theoretically) in the case of NG/ZnWO4 indicated the potential of our nanocomposite as emerging candidate for both MOR and ORR activities.

To evaluate the efficiency of the NG/ZnWO4 for DMFC fuel cell, commercial 10% Pt/C was utilized as cathode and NG/ZnWO4 as anode with the required light source toward it, as depicted in **Figure 6**[a.](#page-14-0) In Figure [6b,](#page-14-0) it was clear that the heterostructure exhibited outstanding performance in 0.1 M KOH + 1 M CH3OH electrolyte with a narrow potential gap between the charge and discharge curve, signifying better recharge capability than the commercially available 10% Pt/C. Additionally, NG/ZnWO4 showed a maximum power output of 111 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 300 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which was significantly greater than the pristine ZnWO4 with a maximum power output of 60 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 141.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density, indicating the superior behavior of the catalyst. Furthermore, the cycling stability was analyzed using galvanostatic charge discharge in 0.1 M KOH + 1 M CH3OH at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and displayed in Figure [6c.](#page-14-0) The NG/ZnWO4 displayed a voltage gap of 0.58 V, which was lower than the ZnWO4 (0.71 V). Moreover, the NG/ZnWO4 maintained the voltage drop throughout 120 cycles, whereas the ZnWO4 faced a significant degradation in performance. This result has been graphically presented in Figure [6d](#page-14-0) where the ZnWO4 displayed a greater decaying rate of 2.75 mV cycle<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> even after 40 cycles of charge-discharge which was ≈8.3 times better than that of 0.33 mV cycle<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for NG/ZnWO4. We believe that the degradation of ZnWO4 was due to the lack of active sites, absence of defect states and having larger band gap for the possible photoactivity toward MOR.[\[58,59\]](#page-16-0) On the other hand, the remarkable performance of NG/ZnWO4 was due to the formation of heterointerface, thereby enhancing the stability and conductivity of the heterostructure.[\[59\]](#page-16-0) Taken together, these findings on ORR and MOR illustrated the promising application of NG/ZnWO4 as potential bifunctional catalyst DMFC and other metal-air batteries. Besides the performance of our photoelectron catalyst for DMFC, their superior stability played a crucial role in energy conversion technology. The composite catalyst showed an exceptional striping voltage stability at different applied current than that of ZnWO4 as shown in Figure [6e.](#page-14-0) Another noting factor from this experiment was the lower voltage requirement for a definite current to reach than the pristine ZnWO4.

16136829, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.20255511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for Judge of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [6601/

<span id="page-14-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Schematic illustration of DMFC full cell where  $NG/ZnWO_4$  is used as anode and 10% Pt/C is used as cathode. b) Galvanodynamic charge-discharge curve and respective power densities of  $NG/ZnWO_4$  and pristine  $ZnWO_4$  in which  $NG/ZnWO_4$  exhibits maximum power density of 111 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>. c) Galvanostatic charge and discharge curve profile where  $NG/ZnWO_4$  exhibits longer stability without voltage deviation. d) Voltage deviation at different cycles where  $NG/ZnWO_4$  displays 0.33 mV cycles<sup>-1</sup> loss. e) Chronopotentiometric striping stability of  $ZnWO_4$ ,  $NG/ZnWO_4$  in a two electrode H-cell set up.

#### 4. Conclusion

Inspired from both the experimental and first principle theoretical model, NG-supported monoclinic ZnWO4 was developed to investigate the internal promotion mechanism for bifunctional MOR and ORR activity. A straightforward and efficient synthetic strategy has been utilized to fabricate ZnWO4 nanocuboids uniformly anchored onto N-doped GO sheets. The doping process was precisely regulated using controlled concentrations of NH<sub>3</sub> and urea, ensuring optimal incorporation of N into the GO framework. The resulting composite material underwent comprehensive physicochemical characterization to evaluate its structural, morphological, and chemical properties, confirming its enhanced catalytic potential. The NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> featured a high density of surface atoms, serving as active catalytic sites, while its large specific surface area provided abundant reaction sites. Charge carrier transportation from the interior to the surface further enhanced charge separation, accelerates surface reactions, and minimizes recombination losses by significantly boosting the catalytic performance. The NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nanocuboids as the anodic electrode system demonstrated a 2.5fold enhancement in photo-assisted electrocatalytic methanol oxidation under visible light, consuming just 0.5V compared to the 0.9V required for Pt/C. Additionally, the composite improves stability and efficiency by enabling complete methanol oxidation to CO2 while preventing significant CO poisoning at catalytic sites. The NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> catalyst exhibits a notable maximum power output of 111 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, significantly outperforming pristine ZnWO<sub>4</sub>, which achieves only 60 mW/cm<sup>2</sup> during two electrode cells set up for DMFC tests. This highlights its superior photo-electrocatalytic efficiency. Moreover, NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> exhibits highly stable toward charge-discharge cycles of 0.33 mV cycle<sup>-1</sup> which is ≈8.3 times lower than observed in ZnWO<sub>4</sub>. The synergistic effect between NG and ZnWO<sub>4</sub> enhances charge transfer and reaction kinetics, yielding superior ORR performance in an alkaline medium, with an onset half-wave potential of 0.85V with a high current density of 5.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1600 rpm, and exceptional durability. Our findings are strengthened by theoretical insights from VASP, which we used to evaluate PMOR and ORR performance, as well as reaction intermediates. The lower theoretical overpotential observed in NG/ZnWO<sub>4</sub> further emphasizes its potential as a promising candidate for MOR and ORR activities, backed by VASP analysis. This study underscores the potential of NGsupported ZnWO<sub>4</sub> nanocuboids as a dual-functional catalyst for energy conversion applications, particularly in direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs), paving the way for advancements in fuel cell technology.

# <span id="page-15-0"></span>**Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

S.C. acknowledges the financial support from Anusandhan National Research Foundation (ANRF) under Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB) State University Research Excellence (SERB SURE) Scheme (SUR/2022/001424), DST-FIST (SR-FST-CS-I-2021-219(C)) and SRM University AP, Andhra Pradesh for internal research grant (SRMAP/URG/E&PP/2022-23/014). Authors thank National Supercomputing Mission support for the access to PARAM Porul, for carryout the computational work. R.T. thanks the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), India, for financial support (Grant No. CRG/2022/005423).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

defect engineering, N-doped GO composite ZnWO4, nanocuboid structures, ORR, photoelectrochemical MOR

> Received: May 6, 2025 Revised: May 29, 2025 Published online: June 11, 2025

- [1] X. Zhao, M. Yin, L. Ma, L. Liang, C. Liu, J. Liao, T. Lu, W. Xing, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 2736.
- [2] H. Huang, X. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 6266.
- [3] Q. Tan, T. Qu, C. Y. Shu, Y. Liu, Y. He, W. Zhai, S. W. Guo, L. Liu, Y. N. Liu, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 17145.
- [4] J. Ruan, Y. Chen, G. Zhao, P. Li, B. Zhang, Y. Jiang, T. Ma, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2107067.
- [5] F. Xu, S. Cai, B. Lin, L. Yang, H. Le, S. Mu, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2107387.
- [6] L. Gong, X. Zhu, T. T. T. Nga, Q. Liu, Y. Wu, P. Yang, Y. Zhou, Z. Xiao, C. L. Dong, X. Fu, L. Tao, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202404713.
- [7] Z. Qi, C. Xiao, C. Liu, T. W. Goh, L. Zhou, R. Maligal-Ganesh, Y. Pei, X. Li, L. A. Curtiss, W. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 4762.
- [8] D. W. G. Stewart, K. Scott, A. J. Wain, T. E. Rosser, E. Brightman, D. MacPhee, M. Mamlouk, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 37079.
- [9] J. Lin, B. Qiao, J. Liu, Y. Huang, A. Wang, L. Li, W. Zhang, L. F. Allard, X. Wang, T. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, 2920.
- [10] S. Hu, B. Wang, Y. Ma, M. Li, L. Zhang, Z. Huang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2019**, *552*, 179.
- [11] A. Leelavathi, G. Madras, N. Ravishankar, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 14445.
- [12] U. K. Ghorui, P. Mondal, B. Adhikary, A. Mondal, A. Sarkar, *Chem-ElectroChem* **2022**, *9*, 202200526.
- [13] S. H. Osman, S. K. Kamarudin, N. Shaari, I. H. Hanapi, O. S. J. Elham, M. A. Aminudin, *EnergyFuels* **2025**, *12*, 5651.

- [14] U. K. Ghorui, J. Satra, P. Mondal, S. Mardanya, A. Sarkar, D. N. Srivastava, B. Adhikary, A. Mondal, *Mater. Adv.* **2021**, *2*, 4041.
- [15] U. K. Ghorui, P. Mondal, J. Satra, B. Adhikary, A. Mondal, *Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process.* **2022**, *143*, 106559.
- [16] M. Kumaran, S. Bajpai, M. Tech, *Int. J. Eng. Res. Rev.* **2015**, *3*, 40.
- [17] U. K. Ghorui, B. Show, D. Roy, A. Basak, B. Adhikary, A. Mondal, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2024**, *16*, 3460.
- [18] U. K. Ghorui, M. R. A. Sampath, G. Sivaguru, R. Dutta, S. Sangaraju, S. Chakrabortty, *Catal. Today* **2025**, *454*, 115287.
- [19] G. Kresse, D. Joubert, *Phys. Rev. B* **1999**, *59*, 1758.
- [20] P. E. Blochl, *Phys. Rev. B* **1994**, *50*, 17953
- [21] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *18*, 3865.
- [22] R. Iftimie, P. Minary, M. E. Tuckerman, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2005**, *102*, 6654.
- [23] D. Roy, K. Panigrahi, B. K. Das, U. K. Ghorui, S. Bhattacharjee, M. Samanta, S. Sarkar, K. K. Chattopadhyay, *Nanoscale Adv.* **2021**, *3*, 4739.
- [24] S. Devesa, A. P. Rooney, M. P. Graça, D. Cooper, L. C. Costa, *Mater. Sci. Eng., B* **2021**, *263*, 114830.
- [25] S. Kanwal, M. T. Khan, N. Mehboob, M. Amami, A. Zaman, *ACS Omega* **2022**, *7*, 32184.
- [26] G. Sivaguru, U. K. Ghorui, M. Girirajan, G. K. Dalapati, P. S. Maram, S. Ghosh, S. Sangaraju, S. Chakrabortty, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *7*, 7205.
- [27] R. Pandiyan, P. Veerakumar, S. M. Chen, P. Rameshkumar, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2024**, *7*, 12507.
- [28] M. ting Liu, E. cai Xiao, J. qing Lv, Z. ming Qi, Z. Yue, Y. Chen, G. Chen, F. Shi, *J. Mater. Sci.: Mater. Electron.* **2020**, *31*, 6192.
- [29] S. R. Ede, A. Ramadoss, U. Nithiyanantham, S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu, *Inorg. Chem.* **2015**, *54*, 3851.
- [30] H. W. Shim, I. S. Cho, K. S. Hong, A. H. Lim, D. W. Kim, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2011**, *115*, 16228.
- [31] D. Chen, H. Feng, J. Li, *Chem. Rev.* **2012**, *112*, 6027.
- [32] L. Jiang, B. van Dijk, L. Wu, C. Maheu, J. P. Hofmann, V. Tudor, M. T. M. Koper, D. G. H. Hetterscheid, G. F. Schneider, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 173.
- [33] D. Jiang, T. Wang, M. Chen, J. Wu, P. Du, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, 14271.
- [34] J. Cao, H. Wu, D. Zhang, D. Luo, L. Zhang, X. Yang, J. Qin, G. He, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202319661.
- [35] M. T. Hasan, R. Gonzalez-Rodriguez, C. Ryan, N. Faerber, J. L. Coffer, A. V. Naumov, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1804337.
- [36] M. A. Zafar, O. K. Varghese, F. C. Robles Hernandez, Y. Liu, M. V. Jacob, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 5797.
- [37] P. Lazar, R. Mach, M. Otyepka, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2019**, *123*, 10695.
- [38] J. Wang, B. Zhang, W. Guo, L. Wang, J. Chen, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211099.
- [39] A. R. Poerwoprajitno, L. Gloag, J. Watt, S. Cheong, X. Tan, H. Lei, H. A. Tahini, A. Henson, B. Subhash, N. M. Bedford, B. K. Miller, P. B. O'Mara, T. M. Benedetti, D. L. Huber, W. Zhang, S. C. Smith, J. J. Gooding, W. Schuhmann, R. D. Tilley, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 231.
- [40] G. Huang, Y. Li, L. Tao, Z. Huang, Z. Kong, C. Xie, S. Du, T. Wang, Y. Wu, Q. Liu, D. Zhang, J. Lin, M. Li, J. Wang, J. Zhang, S. Lu, Y. Cheng, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202215177.
- [41] M. Chen, J. Ma, Y. Feng, Y. Wu, G. Hu, X. Liu, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2025**, *535*, 216612.
- [42] Z. Zhang, J. Liu, J. Wang, Q. Wang, Y. Wang, K. Wang, Z. Wang, M. Gu, Z. Tang, J. Lim, T. Zhao, F. Ciucci, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 5235.
- [43] D. Geng, Y. Chen, Y. Chen, Y. Li, R. Li, X. Sun, S. Ye, S. Knights, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 760.
- [44] L. Song, T. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Xue, X. Fan, H. Guo, W. Xia, H. Gong, J. He, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 3713.
- [45] H. Zheng, J. Z. Ou, M. S. Strano, R. B. Kaner, A. Mitchell, K. Kalantar-Zadeh, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2011**, *21*, 2175.

<span id="page-16-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2025, 31, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202505511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [46] Y. Wang, J. Li, Z. Wei, *J Mater Chem A Mater* **2018**, *6*, 8194.
- [47] U. K. Ghorui, B. Adhikary, A. Mondal, *New J. Chem.* **2023**, *47*, 9779.
- [48] U. K. Ghorui, G. Sivaguru, U. B. Teja, M. Aswathi, S. Ramakrishna, S. Ghosh, G. K. Dalapati, S. Chakrabortty, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *18*, 7649.
- [49] P. Li, Z. P. Li, B. H. Liu, *J. Power Sources* **2012**, *199*, 146.
- [50] C. Jia, H. Yin, H. Ma, R. Wang, X. Ge, A. Zhou, X. Xu, Y. Ding, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2009**, *113*, 16138.
- [51] Y. Zhou, Y. Zhang, M. Lin, J. Long, Z. Zhang, H. Lin, J. C. S. Wu, X. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 8340.
- [52] M. Zhu, C. Zhai, M. Sun, Y. Hu, B. Yan, Y. Du, *Appl. Catal., B* **2017**, *203*, 108.
- [53] W. Chen, S. Luo, M. Sun, M. Tang, X. Fan, Y. Cheng, X. Wu, Y. Liao, B. Huang, Z. Quan, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2107803.

- [54] W. Wang, Z. Jiang, X. Tian, T. Maiyalagan, Z.-J. Jiang, *Carbon* **2023**, *201*, 1068.
- [55] Y. Wang, Z. Li, X. Zheng, R. Wu, J. Song, Y. Chen, X. Cao, Y. Nie, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *325*, 122383.
- [56] J. H. Zheng, G. Li, J. M. Zhang, N. Cheng, L. F. Ji, J. Yang, J. Zhang, B. W. Zhang, Y. X. Jiang, S. G. Sun, *Sci. China Chem.* **2023**, *66*, 279.
- [57] P. Ferrin, A. U. Nilekar, J. Greeley, M. Mavrikakis, J. Rossmeisl, *Surf. Sci.* **2008**, *602*, 3424.
- [58] Y. Niu, X. Teng, S. Gong, M. Xu, S. G. Sun, Z. Chen, *Nanomicro Lett.* **2021**, *13*, 126.
- [59] K. Wang, P. Liu, M. Wang, T. Wei, J. Lu, X. Zhao, Z. Jiang, Z. Yuan, X. Liu, J. He, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2025**, *36*, 110532.