---
source: Guangzhi 等 - 2022 - Nitrogen, Sulfur and Fluorine Tri-Doped Carbon Supporting Cobalt Nanoparticles for Oxygen Reduction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 54.825s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:45:24.871804Z
---

# Nitrogen, Sulfur and Fluorine Tri-Doped Carbon Supporting Cobalt Nanoparticles for Oxygen Reduction Catalysis

To cite this article: Yang Guangzhi et al 2022 J. Electrochem. Soc. 169 034501

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/ac5792) for updates and enhancements.

# You may also like

[Co, N, S Tri-Doped Carbon as an Effective](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ab6fed) [Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ab6fed) [Reaction Prepared from High-Sulfur Raw](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ab6fed) [Coal](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ab6fed) -

Hui-Juan Zhang, Chunlei Cai, Jing Geng et al.

[Bright White Up-Conversion Emission from](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734) [Ho](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734)3+[/Yb](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734)3+[/Tm](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734)3+ [Tri-Doped Y](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734)<sup>2</sup> [SiO](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734)<sup>5</sup> [Phosphors](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1149/1.3590734) -

Linna Guo, Yuhua Wang, Jia Zhang et al.

[Synthesis of C–N–Y tri-doped TiO](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/2/10/105011)[2](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/2/10/105011) [photo](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/2/10/105011)[catalyst for MO degradation and](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/2/10/105011) [characterization](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/2/10/105011) -

F Hoseinian-Maleki, A Nemati and Yasir F Joya

# Journal of The Electrochemical Society, 2022 169 034501

1945-7111/2022/169(3)/034501/7/\$40.00 © 2022 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited All rights, including for text and data mining. All training, and similar technologies, are reserved.

# Nitrogen, Sulfur and Fluorine Tri-Doped Carbon Supporting Cobalt Nanoparticles for Oxygen Reduction Catalysis

Yang Guangzhi, <sup>1</sup> Bo Chen, <sup>1</sup> Wenqing Zhao, <sup>1</sup> Minghao Xu, <sup>1</sup> Yang Lu, <sup>1</sup> Yuhua Xue, <sup>1</sup> and Hui-Juan Zhang <sup>1,2,z</sup>

<sup>1</sup>School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Shanghai for Science and Technology, 200093 Shanghai, People's Republic of China

Non-precious metal catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) are urgently needed in clean energy conversion systems, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries. Cobalt nanoparticles supported on nitrogen, sulfur and fluorine tri-doped carbon (Co/NSF-C) is a new class of non-precious metal materials, which exhibit ORR catalysis in alkaline media. These catalysts are prepared by pyrolyzing cobalt chloride and melamine sulfuric acid hydrogen fluoride with carbon black in a nitrogen atmosphere at temperatures from 600 °C to 900 °C with Co content from 0 to 15wt%. The electrochemical performance of the catalysts shows hat the best temperatures and the best cobalt contents in descending order are 700 °C > 600 °C > 800 °C > 900 °C and 10 wt%  $\approx$  5 wt% > 15 wt% > 0 wt%, respectively. The catalyst with cobalt content of 10 wt% and prepared at 700 °C (Co/NSF-C700) has a mesopore surface with high heteroatom defect density and a specific surface area of 875 m² g⁻¹. Co/NSF-C700 exhibits the best ORR catalytic performance with a mainly 4-electron reaction pathway, an ORR peak potential of 0.856 V and the half-wave potential of 0.855 V, as well as a good stability in 0.1 M KOH.

© 2022 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited. [DOI: 10.1149/1945-7111/ac5792] All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.

Manuscript submitted November 27, 2021; revised manuscript received January 22, 2022. Published March 3, 2022.

Catalytic reduction of small oxygen molecular  $(O_2)$  has attracted more and more attention due to its technological importance in clean energy conversion systems, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries.  $^{1-3}$  However, oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) at the cathode of these systems, which is in a sluggish and complex process, always depends strongly on effective catalysts.  $^{1-3}$  Currently, the commercial catalysts for ORR are carbon supported precious metal platinum and its alloys, which are high cost, limited supply and low tolerant to methanol crossover.  $^{4,5}$  To solve these problems, many research efforts have been made to develop effective non-precious metal catalysts for ORR.

In terms of non-precious metal catalysts, earth abundant 3d transition metal Co nanoparticles supported on N-doped carbon have been investigated extensively as one of the most promising ORR catalysts owning to their good performances. 6-11 For example, G. Ma's group has reported Co nanoparticles embedded in N-doped highly porous carbon (Co/NHPC) derived from biomass hemp as an ORR catalyst with the high half-wave potential of 0.826 V, superior catalytic stability and tolerance to methanol. Co nanoparticles encapsulated in N-doped graphene (Co/NG), N-doped graphitic carbon nanosheets (Co/N-GCNs), N-doped carbon (Co/NC), N-doped carbon nanotube nanotube nanotube to N-co-doped porous carbon (Co-N-PCD) with the drum-like morphology of zeolitic imidazolate frameworks are reported recently.

For non-metal catalysts, based on the different sizes and electronegativities between the heteroatoms and carbon atom, doping of heteroatoms into carbon matrix can change the charge distribution, defects and electronic properties of carbon nanomaterials. <sup>12,13</sup> Dual-doped and tri-doped carbon, such as N, S dual-doped and N, S, F tri-doped carbon are widely studied because of the synergistic effect of each heteroatom. <sup>14–16</sup> As F owns the largest electronegativity (4.0) and S has a similar electronegativity (2.5) to C (2.5), N, S, F tri-doped carbon (NSF-C) should be especially beneficial for the ORR. <sup>16,17</sup> For instance, N, F, S tri-doped porous graphene showed greatly enhanced ORR performance with positive onset potential of 0.988 V and half-wave potential of 0.803 V vs. RHE comparable to the Pt/C in alkaline media. <sup>17</sup> N, S, F tri-doped catalyst was prepared by pyrolyzing sulfonated-polyaniline supported on carbon in presence of NH<sub>4</sub>F, where F tri-doping created more active sites through inducing maximum charge

polarization/spin density alterations to promise for ORR improvement.<sup>16</sup> In this way, to enhance the ORR catalytic activity of Co-based catalysts, N and other heteroatoms dual-doped carbon, such as N, P dual-doped carbon, <sup>18,19</sup> N, S dual-doped carbon, and N, F dual-doped carbon, <sup>22</sup> with Co nanoparticles were designed and studied as Pt/C substituted ORR catalysts based on the synergistic effect of Co nanoparticles, N and other heteroatoms. At present, Fe, N, S and F doped microporous-mesoporous carbon has been synthesized through a plain one-pot pyrolysis method with ionic liquid and melamine as precursors.<sup>23</sup> So it will be very inspiring to prepare multi-heteroatoms doped carbon along with Co nanoparticles as low-cost and efficient catalysts for ORR.

In this work, we report a class of non-precious metal ORR catalyst consisting of Co nanoparticles supported on N, S, F tri-doped carbon (Co/NSF-C), synthesized via directly pyrolyzing the mixture of cobalt chloride hexahydrate, melamine sulfur acid hydrogen fluoride and carbon black in an N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere. Physical characterizations, such as N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Raman, X-ray diffraction (XRD) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) are carried out. Cyclic voltammograms (CVs), rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating-ring disk electrode (RRDE) measurements for measuring the catalytic performance of oxygen reduction are demonstrated in alkaline solution. The influences of pyrolysis temperature and Co normal content on ORR catalytic performance are investigated and optimized. The obtained Co/NSF-C with the normal Co content of 10 wt% and pyrolyzed at 700, namely Co/NSF-C700, shows the best catalytic activity toward ORR.

# Experimental

Chemicals and materials.—Cobalt chloride hexahydrate (CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O), melamine (M), sulfur acid (H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>), hydrofluoric acid (HF) and potassium hydroxide (KOH) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Company (China). Carbon black (Black Pearls 2000, BP2000) was obtained from Carbot Company and Nafion solution (5 wt%) from DuPont Company.

Synthesis of Co/NSF-C catalysts.—2.52 g melamine was totally dissolved in 225 ml deionized water at 80 °C. Then 1.0 ml sulfur acid (98%) and 3.02 g hydrofluoric acid were added dropwise into the above solution. The reaction mixture was directly dried at 80 °C after reaction for 2 h under stirring condition. Melamine sulfur acid hydrogen fluoride salt (MSF, as shown in Fig. 1) was then formed after cooling down to room temperature.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup>College of Sciences/Institute for Sustainable Energy, Shanghai University, 200444 Shanghai, People's Republic of China

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Illustration of fabricating Co/NSF-C catalysts.

The preparation process of Co/NSF-C is illustrated in Fig. 1. Carbon black (0.2 g), cobalt chloride hexahydrate (0.08 g) and melamine sulfur acid hydrogen fluoride (0.2 g) were completely grounded and mixed in an agate mortar for about half an hour. The resultant powder was heated in a tube furnace for 90 min at the set temperature under N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere with a temperature ramp of 5 °C and naturally cooled to room temperature. In this work, the set temperatures were chosen at 600 °C, 700 °C, 800 °C and 900 °C, correspondingly, a series of catalysts were prepared and denoted as Co/NSF-C600, Co/NSF-C700, Co/NSF-C800 and Co/NSF-C900. To evaluate the effect of Co nominal content, 0.04 g cobalt chloride hexahydrate, 0.08 g cobalt chloride hexahydrate and 0.12 g cobalt chloride hexahydrate were used, respectively, to prepare 5 wt% Co/ NSF-C700, 10 wt% Co/NSF-C700 and 15 wt% Co/NSF-C700. NSF-C700 was also prepared for comparison, which was synthesized from pyrolyzing 0.2 g carbon black and 0.2 g MSF at 700 °C for 90 min with a heating rate of 5 °C min<sup>-1</sup>.

Material characterizations.—X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained at room temperature on a Bruker X-ray diffractometer (D8 Advance) with a Cu Ka radiation at the voltage of 40 kV and the current of 40 mA. The average size of Co particles in these Co-based catalysts were calculated using the following Scherrer formula: d =  $0.89 \ \lambda/B\cos\theta$ , where d is the diameter of the particle,  $\lambda$  is the wavelength of the X-ray radiation (0.154 nm),  $\theta$  is the Bragg angle and B is the full width at half maximum of the Co(111) Bragg peak of the sample. Raman spectra were recorded on a LabRAM HR Evolution at a laser wavelength of 532 nm. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was operated on a FEI-Quanta 450 FEG, while transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and energy dispersive spectrum (EDS) of Co/NSF-C700 were collected on a FEI Tecnai G2 F30. N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherm curves of Co/NSF-C700 were measured on an ASAP 2020-Physisorption Analyzer (Micromeritics, USA). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurement of Co/NSF-C700 was performed on a ThermoFischer, ESCALAB 250Xi with a monochromic Al X-ray source (1486.6 eV). Binding energies of O 1 s, N 1 s, S 2p, F 1 s and Co 2p were calibrated to C 1s peak at 284.8 eV and analyzed using the XPSPeak4.1 program.

*Electrochemical measurements.*—Electrochemical measurements for ORR, including cyclic voltammograms (CVs), rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating-ring disk electrode (RRDE) measurements, were evaluated at room temperature in a three-electrodes system filled with 0.1 M KOH. A graphite rode and a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) were used as the counter electrode and the reference electrode, respectively. The working electrode, namely the catalyst-coated glass carbon electrode, was fabricated by pasting and air-drying 20  $\mu$ l catalyst ink onto the surface of the glass carbon electrode, where the catalyst ink was made from dispersing 2 mg catalyst in 380  $\mu$ l ethanol and 20  $\mu$ l of a 5 wt%

Nafion solution under ultrasonic condition. The potential scan rate was fixed at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> for all the ORR measurements.

For the ORR measurements, CVs were first collected in  $N_2$ -saturated solution and then in  $O_2$ -saturated solution. Both the RDE and RRDE measurements were recorded at a rotation rate of 900 rpm. In this study, the potentials were converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by using the following equation:  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm SCE} + 0.059 \, \rm pH + E^{\theta}_{\rm SCE}$ . The number of electron-transferred per oxygen molecular (n) can be determined from RRDE measurements based on the following equation:  $n = 4I_{\rm d}/(I_{\rm d}+I_{\rm r}/N)$ , where  $I_{\rm d}$  and  $I_{\rm r}$  are the disk current density and ring current density, respectively, and N is the collection efficiency at the ring electrode (0.37). The percentage of peroxide  $HO_2^-$  ( $HO_2^-$ %) is calculated by the equation of  $HO_2^-$ % = 100(4-n)/2. The stability of Co/NSF-C700 was also measured by the current-time (i–t) chronoamperometric technique.

# **Results and Discussion**

Here, as illustrated in Fig. 1, Co/NSF-C catalysts are successfully synthesized by one-step pyrolysis process, where melamine sulfur acid hydrogen fluoride salt (MSF) is used as the N, S and F precursor. During the pyrolysis of the solid phase mixture of CoCl<sub>2</sub> and MSF with BP2000 (high surface area), MSF is decomposed into some nitrogen-, sulfur-, fluoride- and carbon-containing species, then N, S, F are doped into carbon matrix (NSF-C). CoCl<sub>2</sub> at the same time is transformed into Co nanoparticles and supported on NSF-C, so the corresponding product is a composite of Co/NSF-C.

To investigate the influence of pyrolysis temperature and Co content on the structure and ORR catalytic activity of Co/NSF-C, we have prepared several catalysts at 600 °C, 700 °C, 800 °C and 900 ° C, and with Co contents at 0 wt%, 5 wt%, 10 wt% and 15 wt%, respectively. In Fig. 2a, for each one, the diffraction peaks at 44.3°, 51.6° and 75.8° belong to Co(111), Co(200) and Co(220) (JCPDS No.15–0806), respectively, indicating the existence of Co nanoparticles. <sup>6–10</sup> A phenomenon is that with the pyrolysis temperature increases from 600 °C to 900 °C, the diffraction peaks become more and more sharp. A very broad peak appears near 25° for each one, corresponding to C(002) diffraction, is attributed to graphite carbon. 24,25 Therefore, the XRD pattern of Co/NSF-C is composed of C and Co diffraction peaks, indicating the existence of Co and C. In Fig. 2b, both 10 wt% Co/NSF-C700 and 15 wt% Co/NSF-C700 have the obvious diffraction peaks of Co nanoparticles, while except for NSF-C700, 5 wt% Co/NSF-C700 has very weak Co diffraction peaks. Based on the XRD measurements and Scherrer formula, the average size of Co particles in these Co-based catalysts are calculated be Co/NSF-C600 (21 nm) < Co/NSF-C700 (28 nm) < Co/NSF-C800 (29 nm) < Co/NSF-C900 (37 nm), indicating that increasing the pyrolysis temperature can increase the size of metal Co dispersed on the carbon surface and 15 wt% Co/NSF-C700 has a larger average size of 34 nm for Co particles than that of 10 wt% Co/ NSF-C700 (28 nm).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. XRD patterns and Raman spectra of Co/NSF-C catalysts prepared at different pyrolysis temperatures ((a), (c)) and with different Co contents ((b), (d)).

In Figs. 2c and 2d, the Raman spectrum of each sample has two obvious peaks: one peak is located around at 1340 cm<sup>-1</sup>, attributed to the disorder carbon structure (called as "D band") and the other peak is near about 1590 cm<sup>-1</sup>, meaning the graphited carbon structure (named as "G band").<sup>26</sup> Usually, the intensity ratio of D band to G band is recognized as the degree of defect.<sup>26</sup> In this way, the degree of defect is Co/NSF-C700 (1.29) > Co/NSF-C800 (1.28) > Co/NSF-C900 (1.27) > Co/NSF-C600 (1.23), meaning that as the pyrolysis temperature increases from 600 °C to 900 °C, the defect becomes more obvious. For the Co/NSF-C prepared with different Co contents, the degree of defect is 15 wt% Co/NSF-C700 (1.32) > 10 wt% Co/NSF-C700 (1.29) > 5 wt% Co/NSF-C700 (1.23) > NSF-C700 (1.18), meaning that the defect gets more obvious after adding Co nanoparticles.

The morphology of Co/NSF-C700 is observed using SEM and TEM images. SEM image of Co/NSF-C700 in Fig. 3a shows the agglomeration of carbon particles. The corresponding TEM image of Co/NSF-C700 in Fig. 3b clearly exhibit that the distribution of Co nanoparticles (the dark domain) are well loaded on the amorphous carbon structure (the gray area). The EDS of Co/NSF-C700 in Fig. 3c consists of C, N, O, F, S and Co. Figure 3d compares the N<sub>2</sub> adsorption/desorption isotherm curves of Co/NSF-C700 and Co/ NSF-C900, as well as their pore size distribution curves in Fig. 3e. Both of their isotherm curves display the isotherm curve of type IV, indicating the co-existence of mesopores and micropores. The specific surface area of Co/NSF-C700 is calculated to be 875 m<sup>2</sup> (the black lines), larger than that of Co/NSF-C900 (797 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, the grey line). Furthermore, the phenomenon of much mesopore surface area (637 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, 73%) in Co/NSF-C700 is benefit to the ORR as mesopores play a key role in mass transfer and oxygen absorbing.<sup>27,28</sup> Derived from the desorption branch, in Fig. 3e, Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) pore size distribution curve confirms

the presence of mesopores in Co/NSF-C700 with an average pore diameter of 25 nm and a pore volume of  $1.1 \text{ cm}^3 \text{ g}^{-1}$ .

Surface elemental contents and chemical states of Co/NSF-C700 are determined by XPS. In Fig. 4a, the survey XPS spectrum of Co/ NSF-C700 suggests the co-existence of metal-free elements C, N, O, S, F and metal element Co with the atomic ratios of 93.56%, 1.76%, 3.87%, 0.26% 0.19% and 0.36%, respectively. In special, highresolution N 1 s spectrum in Fig. 4b is divided into three peaks at 398.4 eV, 399.7 eV and 401.2 eV, respectively, revealing the coexistence of pyridinic N (40%), pyrrolic N (33%) and graphitic N (27%) species. <sup>20,27–29</sup> Close observation of O 1 s (Fig. 4c) indicates two O-species of C-O and C=O at 531.6 eV and 533.1 eV, respectively.<sup>30</sup> High-resolution S 2p spectrum in Fig. 4d reveals several peaks at 163.9 eV, 165.1 eV and 168.8 eV, which are assigned to -C-S-C-, -C=S- and -C-SO<sub>x</sub>-C, respectively.  $^{16,20,23}$ Fig. 4e gives the high-resolution F 1 s spectrum with two weak peaks for ionic C-F (681.6 eV) and semi-ionic C-F (688.4 eV), respectively. 22,23 The deconvoluted high-resolution Co 2p spectrum of Co/NSF-C700 in Fig. 4f consists of five peaks: 780.5 eV, 782.6 eV, 786.5 eV, 795.9 eV and 803.7 eV, where 780.5 eV and 795.9 eV belong to  $Co^0$ , 782.6 eV is assigned to  $Co^{2+}$ , 786.5 eV and 803.7 eV are their shake-up satellites. 31,32 Based on the above results, the structure of N, S, F tri-doped and Co nanoparticles supported carbon (Co/NSF-C) are successfully synthesized.

To evaluate the catalytic activity of Co/NSF-C catalysts prepared at different pyrolysis temperatures for ORR, CVs are firstly depicted in Fig. 5a. In  $N_2$ -saturated solution, all of these catalysts show only featureless curves (dot lines), on the other hand, well-defined oxygen reduction peaks appear in  $O_2$ -saturated solution (solid line). Specially, the ORR peak potentials ( $E_p$ ) are 0.845 V, 0.856 V, 0.842 V and 0.834 V for Co/NSF-C600, Co/NSF-C700, Co/NSF-C800 and Co/NSF-C900, respectively, meaning that Co/NSF-C

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. (a) SEM, (b) TEM and (c) EDS of Co/NSF-C700, (d) N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherm curves and (e) pore size distribution curves of Co/NSF-C700 and Co/NSF-C900.

<span id="page-4-1"></span>Figure 4. XPS spectra of (a) survey spectrum and the high-resolution spectra of (b) N 1 s, (c) O 1 s, (d) S 2p, (e) F 2 s and (f) Co 2p for Co/NSF-C700.

catalyst prepared at 700 °C has the highest  $E_p$ . However, it still shows a little worse than that of 20 wt% Pt/C ( $E_p=0.91\,\mathrm{V}$ ). Figure 5b compares the  $E_p$  and the half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of these four catalysts for ORR. To better understand the ORR activity, Fig. 5c further demonstrates their ORR polarization curves on the disk electrode at a rotation rate of 900 rpm. On the whole, each one displays an S-shape curve. As shown in Figs. 5b and 5c, the  $E_{1/2}$  of

Co/NSF-C700 is 0.855 V, more positive as compared to that of Co/NSF-C600 (0.829 V), Co/NSF-C800 (0.813 V) and Co/NSF-C900 (0.810 V). The limiting current density ( $J_L$ ) are 4.19 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 5.16 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 3.80 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 4.37 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for Co/NSF-C600, Co/NSF-C700, Co/NSF-C800 and Co/NSF-C900, respectively. However, the  $E_{1/2}$  of 20 wt% Pt/C is 0.863 V and the  $J_L$  is 4.60 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Furthermore, it is also more negative than that of FeCo-N/C-

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 5. (a) Cyclic voltammograms (CVs), (b) Ep and E1/2, (c) polarization curves on the disk electrode, (d) polarization curves on the ring electrode, (e) number of electron-transferred (n) and HO2 <sup>−</sup>%, (f) Tafel plots of Co/NSF-C catalysts prepared at different pyrolysis temperatures for ORR in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. The ORR catalytic performance of 20 wt% Pt/C is also shown for comparison.

<span id="page-5-1"></span>Figure 6. (a) Cyclic voltammograms (CVs), (b) polarization curves on the disk electrode, (c) number of electron-transferred (n) of Co/NSF-C catalysts prepared with different Co contents and (d) the stability of Co/NSF-C700 for ORR in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH.

800, a type of bimetal- and nitrogen-codoped mesoporous carbon catalyst (0.85 V) and Co-N-S triple-doped porous carbon (Co-N-S-PC) prepared from poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) functionalized ZIF-67 (0.845 V). <sup>33,34</sup> Furthermore, their ORR polarization curves on the ring electrode at 900 rpm are shown in Fig. 5d to monitor the formed peroxide species. The ring current densities of these catalysts increase as the disk potential decreases and follow an order of Co/ NSF-C600 < Co/NSF-C700 < Co/NSF-C800 < Co/NSF-C900. To compare the ORR catalytic pathways of these catalysts, the number of electron-transferred (n) in Fig. 5e is between 3.5 and 4.0 for all of the catalysts with the order of Co/NSF-C600  $\approx$  Co/NSF-C700 > Co/ NSF-C900 > Co/NSF-C800, indicating the predominant 4-electron pathway. On the other hand, their corresponding HO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>% are all less than 20% in Fig. 5e, especially for Co/NSF-C600 and Co/NSF-C700, further indicating the 4-electron process happened on these catalysts. Figure 5f displays there Tafel plots to show the reaction kinetics, where Co/NSF-C700 is only 90 mV decade<sup>-1</sup> l, much smaller than that of Co/NSF-C600 (132 mV decade<sup>-1</sup>), Co/NSF-C800 (173 mV decade<sup>-1</sup>) and Co/NSF-C900 (155 mV decade<sup>-1</sup>), indicating a much faster catalytic ORR kinetics on Co/NSF-C700. These results show that Co/NSF-C catalyst prepared at 700 °C has the best ORR catalytic performance.

For Co/NSF-C catalysts prepared with different Co contents, CVs of all Co/NSF-C in Fig. 6a give well-defined oxygen reduction peaks in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte, demonstrating the good catalytic activity of Co/NSF-C for ORR in alkaline solution. Furthermore, Co/NSF-C700 catalysts with different Co contents (5 wt%, 10 wt% and 15 wt%) exhibits nearly the same E<sub>p</sub> and much more positive than that of NSF-C700 (0.764 V), which has no Co nanoparticles. Figure 6b further compares their ORR polarization curves at a rotation rate of 900 rpm. On the whole, each one shows a one-step platform with a diffusion-limiting current, indicating that the ORR occurs on the outer section of these catalysts. Specially, the  $E_{1/2}$  of 10 wt% Co/NSF-C700 (0.855 V) is little higher than that of 5 wt% Co/NSF-C700 (0.835 V) and 15 wt% Co/NSF-C700 (0.842 V), much higher than that of NSF-C700 (0.742 V). To evaluate the ORR catalytic pathways of Co/NSF-C catalysts prepared with different Co contents, the number of electron-transferred (n) during the ORR are shown in Fig. 6c, which are between 3.6 and 4.0 among all the disk potentials studied (0.2 V-0.9 V) with an order of 10 wt% Co/NSF-C700 > 5 wt% Co/NSF-C700 > 15 wt% Co/NSF-C700 ≈ NSF-C700. According to the above results, 10 wt% Co/ NSF-C700 displays a better ORR catalytic performance than the other three. Furthermore, the stability of Co/NSF-C700 was surveyed by the current-time (i-t) chronoamperometric measurement, as shown in Fig. 6d. The relative current of Co/NSF-C700 is still 88% of the initial value after 20000 s' operation, showing a good stability.

## Conclusions

In conclusion, a class of non-precious metal Co/NSF-C catalyst for ORR has been successfully prepared through our facile synthetic route of directly pyrolyzing the mixture of CoCl<sub>2</sub>, melamine sulfur acid hydrogen fluoride and carbon in N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere. Electrochemical measurements demonstrate that Co/NSF-C700 exhibits a good catalytic performance for ORR in terms of the peak potential at 0.856 V, the half-wave potential of 0.855 V, a mainly 4-electron reaction pathway with the number of electrons transferred between 3.8 and 4.0, as well as a good stability in 0.1 M KOH. Based on several structural characterizations, Co/NSF-C700 has a structure of Co nanoparticles supported on N, S, F tri-doped carbon. XRD patterns also indicate that the Co nanoparticles become bigger when the pyrolysis temperature increases from 600 °C to 900 °C. The specific surface area of Co/NSF-C700 is 875 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> with much mesopore surface area (73%). Co/NSF-C700 also has a high defect degree with the  $\rm I_D/I_G$  of 1.28.

#### Acknowledgments

The authors are grateful for Natural Science Foundations of China (21406139), Natural Science Foundations of Shanghai (21ZR1445300), Project of University of Shanghai for Science and Technology (2019KJFZ019), Shanghai Pujiang Program (2020PJD035) and Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (20060502200).

## **ORCID**

Hui-Juan Zhang https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3198-5757

#### References

- <span id="page-6-0"></span>1. Z. Wang et al., "Atomically dispersed  $\text{Co}_2\text{-N}_6$  and  $\text{Fe-N}_4$  costructures boost oxygen reduction reaction in both alkaline and acidic media." *Adv. Mater.*, **33**, 2104718 (2021).
- L. Jiao et al., "Chemical vapour deposition of Fe-N-C oxygen reduction catalysts with full utilization of dense Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites." Nat. Mater., 20, 1385 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-1"></span>Q. Wang et al., "Molten NaCl-assisted synthesis of porous Fe-N-C electrocatalysts
  with a high density of catalytically accessible FeN<sub>4</sub> active sites and outstanding
  oxygen reduction reaction performance." Adv. Energy Mater., 11, 2100219 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-2"></span> J. Kim, Y. Hong, K. Lee, and J. Y. Kim, "Highly stable Pt-based ternary systems for oxygen reduction reaction in acidic electrolytes." *Adv. Energy Mater.*, 10, 2002049 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-3"></span> J. W. Zhang, Y. L. Yuan, L. Gao, G. M. Zeng, M. F. Li, and H. W. Huang, "Stabilizing Pt-based electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction: fundamental understanding and design strategies." *Adv. Mater.*, 33, 2006494 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-4"></span> C. Zhang, J. H. Shu, S. X. Shi, J. Nie, and G. P. Ma, "Hemp derived N-doped highly porous carbon containing Co nanoparticles as electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction." *J Colloid Interf Sci.* 559, 21 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-6"></span>G. L. Li, B. B. Yang, X. C. Xu, S. Cao, X. Y. Shao, X. D. Fu, Y. T. Shi, Y. Yan, X. D. Song, and C. Hao, "In-situ synthesis of Co nanoparticles encapsulated in mesoporous Co, N-codoped graphene-like carbon hybrid as an efficient oxygen reduction electrocatalyst." *Appl. Surf. Sci.*, 543, 148714 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-7"></span> L. Zhang, Y. H. Qin, L. Yang, and C. W. Wang, "Multi-role graphitic carbon nitride-derived highly porous iron/nitrogen co-doped carbon nanosheets for highly efficient oxygen reduction catalyst." *J Colloid Interf Sci*, 582, 1257 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-8"></span> C. Zhang, J. Liu, Y. X. Ye, Q. Chen, and C. H. Liang, "Encapsulation of Co-based nanoparticle in N-doped graphitic carbon for efficient oxygen reduction reaction." *Carbon.* 156, 31 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-9"></span> X. W. Wang, X. Xi, G. Huo, C. Y. Xu, P. F. Sui, R. F. Feng, X. Z. Fu, and J. L. Luo, "Co- and N-doped carbon nanotubes with hierarchical pores derived from metalorganic nanotubes for oxygen reduction reaction." *J Energy Chem*, 53, 49 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-5"></span> K. Huang, Z. Yang, L. Liu, X. Yang, Y. Fan, M. Sun, C. Liu, W. Chen, and J. Yang, "A dual ligand coordination strategy for synthesizing drum-like Co, N co-doped porous carbon electrocatalyst towards superior oxygen reduction and zinc-air batteries." *Int J Hydrogen Energ*, 46, 24472 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-10"></span> G. Y. Ren, S. Q. Chen, J. X. Zhang, N. J. Zhang, C. L. Jiao, H. F. Qiu, C. X. Liu, and H. L. Wang, "N-doped porous carbon spheres as metal-free electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction." J. Mater. Chem. A, 9, 5751 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-11"></span> C. X. Zhao, J. N. Liu, J. Wang, D. Ren, B. Q. Li, and Q. Zhang, "Recent advances of noble-metal-free bifunctional oxygen reduction and evolution electrocatalysts." *Chem. Soc. Rev.*, 50, 7745 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-12"></span> S. Cao, W. Z. Shang, G. L. Li, Z. F. Lu, X. Wang, Y. Yan, C. Hao, S. L. Wang, and G. Q. Sun, "Defect-rich and metal-free N, S co-doped 3D interconnected mesoporous carbon material as an advanced electrocatalyst towards oxygen reduction reaction." *Carbon*, 184, 127 (2021).
- S. B. Ren et al., "Nitrogen and sulfur dual-doped carbon nanotube derived from a thiazolothiazole based conjugated microporous polymer as efficient metal-free electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction." J. Power Sources, 461, 228145 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-13"></span> S. Akula, S. G. Peera, and A. K. Sahu, "Uncovering N, S, F Tri-doped heteroatoms on porous carbon as a metal-free oxygen reduction reaction catalyst for polymer electrolyte fuel cells." *J. Electrochem. Soc.*, 166, F897 (2019).
- <span id="page-6-14"></span> Y. Li, H. J. Wen, J. Yang, Y. Z. Zhou, and X. N. Cheng, "Boosting oxygen reduction catalysis with N, F, and S tri-doped porous graphene: Tertiary Nprecursors regulates the constitution of catalytic active sites." *Carbon*, 142, 1 (2019).
- <span id="page-6-15"></span>L. L. Fan, X. X. Du, Y. M. Zhang, M. F. Li, M. L. Wen, X. Y. Ge, Z. X. Kang, D. F. Sun, and N. P-Doped, "carbon with encapsulated Co nanoparticles as efficient electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reactions." *Dalton T*, 48, 2352 (2019).
- <span id="page-6-16"></span>D. F. Yang, L. Guo, C. Xie, Y. Y. Wang, Y. X. Li, H. Li, and S. Y. Wang, "N, P-dual doped carbon with trace Co and rich edge sites as highly efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction." Sci China Mater, 61, 679 (2018).
- <span id="page-6-17"></span> H.-J. Zhang, C. Cai, J. Geng, W. Yao, Z.-F. Ma, and J. Yang, "Co, N, S Tri-doped carbon as an effective electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction prepared from high-sulfur raw coal." *J. Electrochem. Soc.*, 167, 024520 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-18"></span>K. X. Huang, W. Q. Zhang, R. Devasenathipathy, Z. Y. Yang, X. X. Zhang, X. Q. Wang, D. H. Chen, Y. J. Fan, and W. Chen, "Co nanoparticles and ZnS decorated N, S co-doped carbon nanotubes as an efficient oxygen reduction catalyst in zinc-air batteries." *Int J Hydrogen Energ*, 46, 30090 (2021).

- <span id="page-7-0"></span> H.-J. Zhang, C. Cai, Z.-F. Ma, W. Yao, and J. Yang, "N, F dual-doped carbon embedded with Co & CoN paragenetic structure for oxygen electrocatalytic reduction reaction." *Int J Hydrogen Energ*, 46, 7454 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-1"></span> S. X. Luo et al., "Ionic liquid-derived Fe, N, S, F multiple heteroatom-doped carbon materials for enhanced oxygen reduction reaction." *Nanotechnology*, 32, 395701 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-2"></span> C. Zhang, L. Hou, C. Cheng, Z. Zhuang, F. Zheng, and W. Chen, "Nitrogen and phosphorus Co-doped hollow carbon spheres as efficient metal-free electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction." *Chemelectrochem*, 5, 1891 (2018).
- <span id="page-7-3"></span> C. Du et al., "Balancing the micro-mesoporosity for activity maximization of N-Doped carbonaceous electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction." ChemSusChem, 12, 1017 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-4"></span> H.-J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, C. Cai, Z.-F. Ma, Y. Xue, and J. Zhang, "High-performance heteroatoms (B, S) single- and dual-doped catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction." *J. Electrochem. Soc.*, 168, 104511 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-5"></span> X. Y. Xie, L. S. Peng, H. Z. Yang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L. Shang, and T. R. Zhang, "MIL-101-derived mesoporous carbon supporting highly exposed Fe single-atom sites as efficient oxygen reduction reaction catalysts." *Adv. Mater.*, 33, 2101038 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-6"></span> M. G. Hao, R. M. Dun, Y. M. Su, and W. M. Li, "Highly active Fe–N-doped porous hollow carbon nanospheres as oxygen reduction electrocatalysts in both acidic and alkaline media." *Nanoscale*, 12, 15115 (2020).

- <span id="page-7-7"></span> X. B. Ding, L. Zhang, Y. H. Qin, L. Yang, C. W. Wang, and C. J. Peng, "Highly porous Fe/N/C catalyst for oxygen reduction: the importance of pores." *Chem. Commun.*, 57, 6935 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-8"></span>H.-J. Zhang, C. Cai, Z.-F. Ma, Y. Xue, and J. Zhang, "Boosting electrocatalytic performance of Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>/NC for oxygen reduction reaction by a secondary-N-doping strategy." *J. Electrochem. Soc.*, 168, 054520 (2021).
   Y. Wu, L. Y. Ge, A. Veksha, and G. Lisak, "Cobalt and nitrogen co-doped porous
- <span id="page-7-9"></span> Y. Wu, L. Y. Ge, A. Veksha, and G. Lisak, "Cobalt and nitrogen co-doped porous carbon/carbon nanotube hybrids anchored with nickel nanoparticles as highperformance electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reactions." *Nanoscale*, 12, 13028 (2020)
- <span id="page-7-10"></span>D. Y. He, L. Y. Cao, J. F. Huang, L. L. Wang, G. D. Li, Z. T. Liu, Y. Q. Feng, Y. J. Liu, L. M. Pan, and L. L. Feng, "Vanadium-mediated ultrafine Co/Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> nanoparticles anchored on Co-N-doped porous carbon enable efficient hydrogen evolution and oxygen reduction reactions." *Nanoscale*, 13, 16277 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-11"></span> D. Xiang, X. Bo, X. Gao, C. Du, P. Li, L. Zhu, and W. Chen, "Bimetal- and nitrogen-codoped spherical porous carbon with efficient catalytic performance towards oxygen reduction reaction in alkaline media." *J Colloid Interf Sci*, 534, 655 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-12"></span>K. Huang, J. Li, M. Sun, Z. Yang, Y. Fan, X. Du, W. Chen, and J. Yang, "PEDOT functionalized ZIF-67 derived Co-N-S triple-doped porous carbon for high-efficiency oxygen reduction." *Appl. Surf. Sci.*, 535, 147659 (2021).