---
source: He 等 - 2018 - Nonprecious Nanoalloys Embedded in N‐Enriched Mesoporous Carbons Derived from a Dual‐MOF as Highly A.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.439s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:50:52.312270Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/slct.201801085 Full Papers

## z Electro, Physical & Theoretical Chemistry

# Nonprecious Nanoalloys Embedded in N-Enriched Mesoporous Carbons Derived from a Dual-MOF as Highly Active Catalyst towards Oxygen Reduction Reaction

Jiaping He,[a, b] Tianyuan Gao,[b] Tengyao Jiang,[b] Bin Mu,[b] Yange Suo,\*[a] Zhiguo Zhang,\*[a] and [Jianwei Su](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-0800-0385)\*[b]

M-

In this work, we reported the synthesis of a novel electrocatalyst composed of Fe and Co bimetallic nanoalloys embedded in N-enriched carbon framework (FeCo@NC) for oxygen reduction reaction. The FeCo@NC was synthesized through pyrolyzing a dual metal-organic framework (MOF) under argon atmosphere. This FeCo@NC electrocatalyst showed remarkable performance towards ORR with a high half-wave potential of 0.827 V versus reversible hydrogen potential (RHE), which was comparable to the state-of-the-art commercial Pt/C catalyst. The enhanced activity could be ascribed to the large specific surface area, the abundant active sites and the synergistic effect of bimetallic alloy.

In fact, further boosting electrocatalytic activity is challenging but desired. It is a common and feasible method to expand the catalyst's exposed specific surface area, which could increase the contact area of the catalyst with the electrolyte, enhance the density of active sites and promote the transfer rate of the proton and the product.[13] However, engineering an

N-C catalyst with a desirable specific surface area is hindered by the tedious and complex synthetic process, which results in uncontrolled structural ordering of the as-synthesized catalyst.

#### Introduction

The pressing global energy issues have prompted increasingly intense researches on energy conversion and storage systems.[1] Electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), which is a complicated reaction involving a four-electron transfer process, plays a key role in energy conversion systems, including fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[2] Conventionally, Pt-based electrocatalysts were used as ORR catalysts.[3] However, the commercial applications were limited by its high cost, scarcity, and methanol intolerance. Hence, it is of critical importance to develop efficient and low-cost alternatives for replacing noble metal-based catalysts.[4] To this end, tremendous efforts have been devoted to the exploration of highly efficient nonprecious ORR catalysts, such as transition metal (e. g., Fe, Co, Ni, Mn) oxides,[5] sulfide,[6] nitrides,[7] carbon materials(e. g., carbon blacks, nanotubes, fibers and chemical modification of carbon),[8] perovskites[9] and so on. Among these catalysts, Metalnitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) catalysts, bonding of N and transition metals (especially Co, Fe), have emerged as the most promising alternatives to Pt-based electrocatalysts.[10] Song et al. reported that Fe-N-C catalysts exhibited high ORR performance with the half-wave potential of 0.78 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode in an alkaline medium.[11] Co-N-C catalysts fabricated by Meng et al. with superior ORR activity could be a promising catalyst candidate for Zn-air batteries.[12]

Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) composing of organic bridging ligands and inorganic metal ions have advantages of high surface area, high capacity tunable mesoporous structure, porous transmission, ordered crystal framework and facile synthesis method.[14] In comparison to the traditional synthesis of M-N-C catalysts, MOFs could be ideal precursors for obtaining metal incorporated porous N-doped carbon nanostructures as active electrocatalysts by carbonization.[15] The assynthesized electrocatalysts could inherit the large surface area and controllable pore channels from MOF precursors, benefit for improving catalytic activities. In addition, the nitrogendoped porous carbon structure with tunable compositions would be beneficial to modulate the local electron density of carbon, which will facilitate the O2 adsorption and dissociation based on density functional theory.[16] Other than single MOF, pyrolyzing dual-MOF could result in materials with favorable multiple structures and compositions, which is crucial for improving the catalytic activity.[17] For instance, Guan et al. reported the synthesis of Fe-based electrocatalysts through

pyrolyzing MIL-88B@ZIF-8 dual MOF composites. The obtained materials exhibited a high surface specific surface area (377 m2

) and high ORR performance.[18] Additionally, the alloy formed by annealing of dual-MOF would have a synergistic effect with the nitrogen-doped carbon layer.[19] Accordingly, the delicate design and preparation of composite MOF precursors with novel structures and tailored compositions may dramati-

suoyange@zust.edu.cn

[b] J. He, T. Gao, Dr. T. Jiang, Prof. B. Mu, Dr. J. Su Ningbo Institute of Materials Technology and Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Ningbo 315201, Zhejiang (China) E-mail: sujianwei@nimte.ac.cn

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201801085>

g-1

<sup>[</sup>a] J. He, Prof. Y. Suo, Prof. Z. Zhang Department of Energy and Environmental Systems Engineering, Zhejiang University of Science and Technology, Hangzhou 310027, Zhejiang (China) E-mail: zhangzhiguo@zust.edu.cn

cally expand the application for desirable M-N-C based functional materials.

#### Results and Discussion

In this work, we developed a binary alloy (Fe, Co) embedded in N-doped carbon framework using a dual-MOF confinedpyrolysis approach, where the dual-MOF precursor was synthesized by the epitaxial growth of Fe-based NH2-MIL-88B nanorods on Co-based ZIF-67 polyhedron. During the pyrolysis, Fe and Co ions from the precursor formed FeCo alloy particles under annealing temperature as schematically shown in Scheme 1. The introduction of NH2-MIL-88B into ZIF-67 host as

Scheme 1. The formation process of FeCo@NC-700 electrocatalysts.

co-precursor guaranteed uniform arrangement of transition metals in a continuous carbon framework. Benefiting from the large special surface area (403 m2 g-1 ), the as-prepared FeCo@NC composite displayed a superior ORR performance compared to most of other earth-abundant material-based electrocatalysts. A half-wave potential of 0.827 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) for ORR was observed. Besides, compared to commercial Pt/C catalyst, the FeCo@NC materials exhibited more excellent stability and methanol tolerance. When FeCo@NC catalyst was used as air electrode in zinc-air battery, a voltage plateau of 1.26 V at the discharge current densities of 20 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> was achieved, which was higher than that using Pt/C catalyst (1.25 V).

The current synthesis methods relied on the confined carbonization of Fe-based NH2-MIL-88B nanorods anchored on a Co-based ZIF-67 rhombododecahedron. Firstly, NH2-MIL-88B was prepared through a hydrothermal method. The NH2-MIL-88B showed a uniform particle size and rod-like morphology with a length of approximately 500 nm (Figure S1, see SI†). Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) surfactant was used to functionalize the NH2-MIL-88B nanorods. As shown in Scheme1I, the NH2- MIL-88B nanorods were deposited onto ZIF-67 via. the addition of NH2-MIL-88B nanorods into the mixture of Co2<sup>+</sup> ions and an organic ligand of 2-methylimidazole (2-MIM). The dark purple product of NH2-MIL-88B@ZIF-67 was then collected by centrifugation. Compared to the ZIF-67 crystals (Figure S3, see SI†), the resultant dual-MOF precursors were the dodecahedron particles fully encapsulated by nanorods (Scheme 1II and Figure 1a). The XRD pattern of the NH2-MIL-88B@ZIF-67 particle was nearly identical to that of ZIF-67 (Figure S4, see SI†), indicating the NH2-MIL-88B nanorods did not affect the structure significantly. Compared with the strong peaks associated with ZIF-67, the weak Bragg reflections peaks ranging from 68 to 108 could be indexed to unique low-degree peaks of NH2-MIL-88B (Figure S5, see SI†), conforming that the NH2-MIL-88B nanorods were successfully anchored onto ZIF-67 through our facile method. Besides, the successful load of NH2-MIL-88B nanorods could also be verified by the dark purple color of the sample, which was different from the purple color of pristine ZIF-67.

Then, the NH2-MIL-88B@ZIF-67 precursor was calcined at a certain temperature (6008C, 7008C, 8008C, 9008C or 10008C) and then etched by 0.5 M H2SO4 solution. The corresponding products were hereinafter denoted as FeCo@NC-600, Fe-Co@NC-700, FeCo@NC-800, FeCo@NC-900 and FeCo@NC-1000 respectively. As illustrated in Scheme 1III, Fe and Co ions would migrate to each other and subsequently form the FeCo alloys in the process of annealing treatment, due to the nonequilibrium inter-diffusion process of metal ions and porous structure of MOFs.[20] Meanwhile, the nitrogen-doped carbon matrices, where the forming nanoalloy particles were embedded uniformly, were obtained from 2-MIM ligand in the ZIF-67 precursor during carbonization. After acid treatment, the accessible metal nanoparticles were removed. Obviously, the obtained FeCo@NC samples all inherited the similar morphology of dual-MOF precursors with an average diameter of ~2.5 mm, while hold less rod-shaped guests with the rougher surfaces (Figure 1b and Figure S6). Interestingly, the NH2-MIL-88B rods were collapsed into smaller particles with the increasing carbonization temperature, which would lead to the decrease of special surface area. As revealed by the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) in Figure 1c, the porous nanocarbon skeletons were formed by the direct annealing process of MOFs. The enlarged TEM image in Figure 1d suggested that numerous small nanoparticles with a mean diameter of about 5 nm were uniformly distributed in a porous N-doped carbon framework. The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) characterizations of FeCo@NC-700 in Figure 1e indicated that the metal core exhibited a lattice fringe space of 0.201 nm consistent with the (110) plane of the cubic FeCo alloy phase, implying the formation the FeCo alloy. As illustrated in Figure 1f-k, the elemental mapping images of several random inner cores showed the Fe, Co elements were uniformly distributed in the particles and surrounded by the N and C elements, further confirming the generation of FeCo nanoalloys embedded in N-doped carbon matrices. Figure S7 and S8 further revealed that the extremely homogeneous distribution of Fe, Co, N and C species in the whole FeCo@NC-700 particle.

The phase structure of FeCo@NC-700 catalyst was also confirmed by XRD results in Figure 2a. Clearly, a broad peak was detected at 26.38, a typical peak of C (002) (JCPDS card no. 41–1487), indicating the existence of the carbon matrices. Besides, FeCo@NC-700 showed a series of Bragg reflections at 44.878 and 65.518, which could be corresponded to the (110) and (200) planes of cubic structure of the FeCo alloy phase (JCPDS card no. 49–1567), respectively.[21] The broadened diffraction peaks of FeCo alloy indicate the inner FeCo particles were nanocrystalline with extremely small diameter uniformly distributed in the porous carbon matrices, which was in good

Figure 1. (a) The FESEM images of NH2-MIL-88B@ZIF-67 dual-MOFs. (b) The FESEM image of FeCo@NC-700. (c, d) TEM image of FeCo@NC-700. (e) The HRTEM image of FeCo@NC-700, (f) TEM image of FeCo@NC-700 and (g-k) TEM image and corresponding EDX maps of FeCo@NC-700 for Fe, Co, C, N.

agreement with the HRTEM and elemental mapping observations discussed above. The corresponding Raman spectrum of FeCo@NC-700 was shown in Figure 2b. The product displayed two peaks locating at 1340 and 1580 cm-1 , designated as the amorphous carbon (D band) and graphite carbon (G band), respectively. Interestingly, the G-band exhibited an obviously stronger intensity than the D-band, suggesting a high graphitization degree of the carbon matrices, which could be beneficial to enhance the electrical conductivity and thus lead to a increasing charge-transfer rate and more facile catalytic kinetics toward electrocatalytic reaction.[22]

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectrum of Fe-Co@NC-700 was illustrated in Figure S9a to analyze the elementals' chemical states and binding states. The nitrogen content in FeCo@NC-700 was ~7.74 wt.% (Table S1). Obviously, the N content in the samples decreased with the increase of annealing temperature, attracted from the instability of nitrogen atom at high temperature. The high-resolution N 1s spectrum in Figure 3c could be deconvoluted into four peaks at of nitrogen atom at high temperature.

The high resolution N 1s spectrum in Figure 2c could be deconvoluted into four peaks at 398.26, 399.06, 400.21 and 401.81 eV, assigned to pyridinic, metal-N, pyrrolic and graphitic nitrogen species, respectively.[23] Obviously, the percentages of pyridinic-N, metal-N, pyrrolic-N and graphitic-N were 42.48%, 10.61%, 33.33% and 13.58%, respectively. It was worthy of emphasizing that the presence of metal-N species might result from the interaction between some pyrrolic-N and metal atoms, which were believed as excellent ORR active sites in Metal–N/C catalysts.[24] Besides, the pyridinic and graphitic nitrogen components in M-N-C samples also could play crucial roles in oxygen reduction reaction.[25] Fe 2p region (Figure S9b, see SI†) and Co 2p region (Figure S9c, see SI†) of FeCo@NC-700 revealed that the metal in the sample surface was unavoidably oxidized upon atmospheric environment. Figure S9d showed that the N 1s spectrum of FeCo@NC-600 was similar to FeCo@NC-700 compared with Figure 2c. Besides, the superficial Fe and Co content were very low. The exact metallic proportions in the binary alloys were further confirmed by the inductively coupled plasma (ICP) measurement. As was revealed in Table S3, the contents of Co and Fe in FeCo@NC-700

Figure 2. (a) The X-ray diffraction patterns of FeCo@NC-700, (b) Raman spectrum of FeCo@NC-700, (c) The XPS result of the N1s spectrum enlarged from Supplementary Fig. S8a, (d) N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm and pore size distribution plot (inset) of FeCo@NC-700.

were 4.25 wt.% and 2.18 wt.% respectively, showing the catalyst with a very competitive price.

The specific surface area of catalysts always was a key factor affecting the heterogeneous catalytic activity (Figure 2d). The specific surface area and pore size distribution of FeCo@NC-700 were characterized by 77 K N2 sorption isotherm. As could be seen in Figure 2d, FeCo@NC-700 exhibited type-IV isotherm with well-defined hysteresis loop at higher relative pressure from 0.45 to 1.0, indicating the existence of mesopores which would benefit the mass transfer during the ORR.[26] Obviously, the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) specific surface area of FeCo@NC-700 was 403 m2 g-1 , which was comparable to some reported MOF-derived electrocatalysts towards ORR (Table S5). The detailed specific surface areas of all FeCo@NC samples were listed in Table S4. In general, the specific surface area of resultant samples decreased as the increasing pyrolysis temperature, implying the pyrolysis temperature was a critical parameter for ORR. The Barret-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) pore size distribution revealed a strong and narrow distribution at ~3 nm, in good agreement with the morphological observations discussed above.

The ORR electrocatalytic activity of FeCo@NC-700 was first investigated through cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements in 0.1 M KOH solution at 258C temperature. As shown in Figure 3a, no obvious redox peaks were observed in N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. In contrast, when the solution was saturated with O2, a well-defined cathodic peak was clearly observed at 0.82 V (vs. RHE), indicating the excellent electrocatalytic performance for ORR. For comparison, the Fe@NC-700 and Co@NC-700 catalysts were prepared by pyrolysis of the corresponding single MOF precursor (NH2-MIL-88B and ZIF-67) under the same condition. The ORR polarization curves of FeCo@NC-700, Co@NC-700, Fe@NC/Co@NC-700, Fe@NC-700 and the Pt/C catalyst (20 wt. %; SIGMA) at 1600 round-perminute (rpm) were shown in Figure 3b. Surprisingly, FeCo@NC-700 catalyst had a half-wave potential at 0.827 V, which was comparable to that of the commercial Pt/C catalyst. Compared with the Co@NC-700 and Fe@NC-700 counterpart, the Fe-Co@NC-700 catalyst performed noticeably better activity

Figure 3. (a) CV curves of FeCo@NC-700 in N2 and O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution with a sweep rate of 50 mV s-. (b) Line sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of FeCo@NC-700, Co@NC, Fe@NC-700/Co@NC mixture, commercial Pt/C catalyst and Fe@NC-700 in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution with a sweep rate of 5 mV s-<sup>1</sup> at rotating rate of 1600 rpm. (c) LSV curves of FeCo@NC-700 at various rotation (values displayed in 225, 400, 625, 900, 1225, 1600 rpm). (d) Corresponding K-L plots derived from the RDE date. (e) The 5th and 10000th CV curves of FeCo@NC-700 and commercial Pt/C catalyst in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution with a sweep rate of 50 mV s-1 . (f) Chronoamperometric responses for the FeCo@NC-700 and commercial Pt/C catalyst at -0.2 V in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution (100 mL) with the addition of 3 mL of methanol at the time of 1900s.

Figure 4. (a) The average discharge voltages and power densities of zinc/air batteries with different catalysts at different current densities; (b) Long-term galvanostatic curves of Zn-air batteries until complete comsumption of Zn anode. The specific capacity was normalized to the mass of consumed Zn. the discharge curves of zinc/air batteries with different catalysts at a current density of 20 mA cm-2 .

towards ORR, confirming that the alloying of Fe and Co could boost the ORR performance, which was consistent with Wang's work.[27] Figure S10 exhibited the polarization curves of all FeCo@NC samples obtained at various pyrolysis temperatures. Obviously, FeCo@NC-700 showed the most positive half-wave potential. The catalysts showed an increase in ORR performance in the following order: FeCo@NC-1000 < FeCo@NC-900 < FeCo@NC-600 < FeCo@NC-800 < FeCo@NC-700, which approximatively agree with the trend of pyrolysis temperatures. As was discussed above, the specific surface area and the Ndoping level of resultant catalysts would decrease with the increase of pyrolysis temperature. It is well-known that the exposed specific surface area of catalyst could play a key role in the contact area of the catalyst with the electrolyte, the density of active sites and the transfer rate of proton and product, which deeply determined the electrocatalytic performance. Besides, the doped N atoms could produce the electronic interaction with nearby M and C atoms to form active sites of ORR, which meanwhile could induce defects in carbon as the excellent adsorption sites of oxygen.[28] However, FeCo@NC-600 had the largest specific surface area and N-doping content among all FeCo@NC samples, but show a relatively low ORR performance, which might be attributed to the incomplete pyrolysis of ZIFs at 6008C.[29] Furthermore, the metallic nanoparticles in the carbon skeleton might be showed an significant role for the electrocatalytic activity. According to previous reports, the electronic interaction between metallic nanoparticles and carbon matrices enhanced activity of nanocarbon electrocatalysts owing to the presence of metal nanoparticles.[30] Reasonably, we could conclude that 7008C was the optimal pyrolysis temperature to prepare ORR electrocatalysts. Therefore, the excellent electrocatalytic activities of the FeCo@NC-700 catalyst might mainly be attributed to the N- doped carbon frameworks incorporated by FeCo alloys, large specific surface area and porous structure. To further understand the reaction kinetics, the electron transfer number (n) was estimated based on the RDE measurements with rotating speeds ranging from 225 to 1600 rpm at a scan rate of 5 mV s -1 . As shown in Figure 3c, the polarization curves of FeCo@NC-700 exhibited that the enhanced limiting current densities gradually increased with the boosting rotation speed. The relevant Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots (j-<sup>1</sup> vs w-1/2) displayed well linearity and parallelity between the potential ranging from 0.65 to 0.8 V (Figure 3d). The values of n were calculated as being 3.68-3.93, which was close to the theoretical value of 4.00 for Pt/C, indicating our obtained catalyst favored a complete-four-electron oxygen reduction pathway and had a high ORR electrocatalytic catalytic efficiency. Stabilities of the catalysts were evaluated using cyclic voltammetry sweeps. Figure 3e revealed that the CV curve of FeCo@NC-700 in the first cycle could perfectly overlap with that of the 10000th cycle, demonstrating its superior stability in 0.1 M KOH. In contrast, the Pt/C catalyst suffers from a larger variability after 10000 cycles, indicated that the stability of commercial Pt/C catalyst was relatively inferior to that of FeCo@NC-700. Furthermore, methanol crossover testes were carried out via. the chronoamperometric responses upon the injection of 3 mL methanol into 100 mL 0.1 M KOH solution. Clearly, the excellent methanol tolerance of FeCo@NC-700 was confirmed by the negligible variation after the injection of methanol, while Pt/C showed a sharp jump in the curve due to the methanol oxidation reaction (Figure 3f). The remarkable ORR activity, stability and methanol tolerance provided FeCo@NC-700 an opportunity to be an alternative of the commercial Pt/C catalyst in direct methanol fuel cells for commercialization. we tested the role of Fe species by adding thiocyanate ions into

the electrolyte. According to Figure S11, the E1/2 values of FeCo@NC in 5 mM SCN solution showed a slight negative shift. The inhibitory effect SCN to ORR could be attributed to the blocking of active sites by the strong complexation between Fe, Co species and thiocyanate anions, which would increase the electrochemical polarization and result in higher overpotential during the ORR process.[31] However, it was observed that SCN hardly worked in the ORR activity of FeCo@NC-700, due to the structure of FeCo@NC-700 was made of carbon coated alloy and the active sites were on the carbon matrix. As shown in Figure S12, FeCo@NC-700 exhibited a very slow attenuation and a high relative current of 95% was retained after 24 h in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution.

The ORR still was a key reaction for metal-air batteries. The application of FeCo@NC-700 in the zinc/air battery was further investigated in an electrochemical cell under air atmosphere. Figure 4a revealed that FeCo@NC-700 held potential as the functional air electrode catalysts with a high peak power density of 193.74 mW cm-2 , which was superior to that of commercial Pt/C catalyst. Compared with Pt/C. Normalized to the mass of consumed Zn during the long-term galvanostatic discharge process, the specific capacity of the battery made with FeCo@NC-700 was estimated to be ~795 mAh g-1 , which is higher than the battery made of Pt/C catalyst (specific capacity 784 mAh g-1 ) (Figure 4b). Hence, FeCo@NC-700 could have potential for the practical zinc/air battery application.[32]

#### Conclusions

In summary, by adopting the dual-MOF particles as precursor, we synthesized bimetallic nanoalloys embedded in N-enriched mesoporous carbons as active and stable electrocatalyst towards ORR. The electrocatalysts are possessed of the typical 3D mesoporous structures with a large active surface, which benefited for providing more active sites and expediting mass transfer. The as-prepared FeCo@NC assemblies exhibited excellent ORR activity and stability comparable to the commercial Pt/C catalyst, hence enabling it to be a cheaper alternative to Pt-based electrocatalysts towards ORR. The synthesis strategy provided a new route in the design of efficient and durable non-precious-metal electrocatalysts for electrochemical energy storage and conversion devices.

#### Supporting Information Summary

The experimental section contains detailed FeCo@NC synthesis, materials and methods, aspect ratio (SEM and TEM), additional XRD and EDX, Raman spectra, surface area and XPS analyses.

#### Acknowledgments

This project was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 51776188, 51602320), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2017 M621986), the Ningbo Natural Science Foundation (No. 2016 A610270) and Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (LQ16B030001).

### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: Metal-Organic-Framework · electrochemistry · nanocomposites · oxygen reduction reaction · Znic-Air battery

- [1] R. Ge, M. Ma, X. Ren, F. Qu, Z. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, L. Chen, B. Zheng, X. Sun, Chem. Commun. 2017, 53, 7812–7815.
- [2] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat. chem. 2011, 3, 546–550.
- [3] a) E. Zamburlini, K. D. Jensen, I. E. L. Stephens, I. Chorkendorff, M. Escudero-Escribano, Electrochim. Acta 2017, 247, 708–721; b) M. Shao, Q. Chang, J. P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, Chem. Rev. 2016, 116, 3594–3657; c) M. Nesselberger, S. Ashton, J. C. Meier, I. Katsounaros, K. J. Mayrhofer, M. Arenz, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2011, 133, 17428–17433.
- [4] a) H. A. Gasteiger, S. S. Kocha, B. Sompalli, F. T. Wagner, Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2005, 56, 9–35; b) H. M. Barkholtz, L. Chong, Z. B. Kaiser, D. J. Liu, Fuel Cells 2016, 16, 428–433; c) A. Brouzgou, S. Song, Z.-X. Liang, P. Tsiakaras, Catalysts 2016, 6, 159; d) R. Ge, H. Du, K. Tao, Q. Zhang, L. Chen, ACS Appl. Mat. Interfaces 2017, 9, 15383–15387.
- [5] H. Osgood, S. V. Devaguptapu, H. Xu, J. Cho, G. Wu, Nano Today 2016, 11, 601–625.
- [6] Q. Liu, J. Jin, J. Zhang, ACS Appl. Mat. Interfaces 2013, 5, 5002–5008.
- [7] W. Gu, L. Hu, J. Li, E. Wang, ACS Appl. Mat. Inerfaces 2016, 8, 35281– 35288.
- [8] Q. Li, R. Cao, J. Cho, G. Wu, Adv. Energy Mater. 2014, 4, 1301415.
- [9] J. Gracia, J. Munarriz, V. Polo, R. Sharpe, Y. Jiao, J. W. H. Niemantsverdriet, T. Lim, ChemCatChem 2017, 9, 3358–3363.
- [10] S. Rojas-Carbonell, C. Santoro, A. Serov, P. Atanassov, Electrochem. Commun. 2017, 75, 38–42.
- [11] L. T. Song, Z. Y. Wu, F. Zhou, H. W. Liang, Z. Y. Yu, S. H. Yu, Small 2016, 12, 6398–6406.
- [12] R. Ge, X. Ren, X. Ji, Z. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, L. Chen, ChemSusChem 2017, 10, 4004–4008.
- [13] a) C. Kong, H. Du, L. Chen, B. Chen, Energy Environ. Sci. 2017, 10, 1812– 1819. b) Y. Lin, C. Kong, Q. Zhang, L. Chen, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1601296. c) Y. Lin, Q. Zhang, C. Zhao, H. Li, C. Kong, C. Shen, L. Chen, Chem. Commun. 2015, 51, 697–699.
- [14] F. Meng, H. Zhong, D. Bao, J. Yan, X. Zhang, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2016, 138, 10226–10231.
- [15] a) A.-d. Tan, Y.-f. Wang, Z.-y. Fu, P. Tsiakaras, Z.-x. Liang, Applied Catalysis B: Environmental 2017, 218, 260–266; b) S. Liu, H. Zhang, Q. Zhao, X. Zhang, R. Liu, X. Ge, G. Wang, H. Zhao, W. Cai, Carbon 2016, 106, 74–83.
- [16] a) D.-W. Wang, D. Su, Energy & Environmental Science 2014, 7, 576; b) X. Wang, H. Fu, W. Li, J. Zheng, X. Li, RSC Adv. 2014, 4, 37779–37785
- [17] B. Y. Guan, X. Y. Yu, H. B. Wu, X. W. D. Lou, Adv. Mater. 2017,10, 1703614.
- [18] a) B. Y. Guan, L. Yu, X. W. Lou, Energy Environ. Sci. 2016, 9, 3092–3096. b) K. Xu, P. Chen, X. Li, Y. Tong, H. Ding, X. Wu, W. Chu, Z. Peng, C. Wu, Y. Xie, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 4119–4125.
- [19] C.-Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z.-Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. Hou, F.-Q. Bai, H.-X. Zhang, T.- Y. Ma, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1602420.
- [20] Y. Yang, Z. Lin, S. Gao, J. Su, Z. Lun, G. Xia, J. Chen, R. Zhang, Q. Chen, ACS Catal. 2016, 7, 469–479.
- [21] Y. Yang, Z. Lun, G. Xia, F. Zheng, M. He, Q. Chen, Energy Environ. Sci. 2015, 8, 3563–3571.
- [22] Y. Hou, T. Huang, Z. Wen, S. Mao, S. Cui, J. Chen, Adv. Energy Mater. 2014, 4, 1400337.
- [23] Z. Zhang, J. Sun, M. Dou, J. Ji, F. Wang, ACS Appl. Mat. Inerfaces 2017, 9, 16236–16242.
- [24] a) G. Xia, J. Su, M. Li, P. Jiang, Y. Yang, Q. Chen, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5, 10321–10327; b) K. Artyushkova, B. Kiefer, B. Halevi, A. Knop-Gericke, R. Schlogl, P. Atanassov, Chem. Commun. (Camb) 2013, 49, 2539–2541; c) Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, Nat. Mater. 2011, 10, 780–786.
- [25] L. Lai, J. R. Potts, D. Zhan, L. Wang, C. K. Poh, C. Tang, H. Gong, Z. Shen, J. Lin, R. S. Ruoff, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 7936.
- [26] F. Rojas, I. Kornhauser, C. Felipe, J. M. Esparza, S. Cordero, A. Domnguez, J. L. Riccardo, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2002, 4, 2346–2355.

- [27] a) M. Li, T. Liu, L. Fan, X. Bo, L. Guo, J. Alloys Compd. 2016, 686, 467–478; b) N. Wu, Y. Lei, Q. Wang, B. Wang, C. Han, Y. Wang, Nano Res. 2017, 10, 2332–2343.
- [28] a) F. Jaouen, J. P. Dodelet, J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 5963–5970; b) H. T. Chung, J. H. Won, P. Zelenay, Nat. Commun. 2013, 4,1-5.
- [29] a) J. Tian, A. Morozan, M. T. Sougrati, M. Lefevre, R. Chenitz, J. P. Dodelet, D. Jones, F. Jaouen, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2013, 52, 6867–6870; b) B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, N. Li, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, X. Wang, Nat. Energy 2016, 1, 15006.
- [30] a) D. Deng, L. Yu, X. Chen, G. Wang, L. Jin, X. Pan, J. Deng, G. Sun, X. Bao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 371–375; b) G. Wu, K. L. More, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, Sci. 2011, 332, 443–447.
- [31] a) L. Song, T. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Xue, X. Fan, H. Guo, W. Xia, H. Gong, J. He, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces. 2017, 9, 3713–3722; b) Q. Wang, Z.-Y. Zhou, Y.-J. Lai, Y. You, J.-G. Liu, X.-L. Wu, E. Terefe, C. Chen, L. Song, M. Rauf, N. Tian, S.-G. Sun, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2014, 136, 10882–10885.
- [32] a) Q. Yu, J. Xu, C. Wu, J. Zhang, L. Guan, ACS Appl. Mat. Interfaces 2016, 8, 35264–35269; b) H.-W. Liang, Z.-Y. Wu, L.-F. Chen, C. Li, S.-H. Yu, Nano Energy 2015, 11, 366–376.

Submitted: April 12, 2018 Accepted: July 6, 2018