---
source: Hu 等 - 2024 - Inhibiting Demetalation of Fe─N─C via Mn Sites for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Zinc‐Air B.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 85.312s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:56:13.258708Z
---

# **Inhibiting Demetalation of Fe**─**N**─**C via Mn Sites for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Zinc-Air Batteries**

*Chuan Hu, Gengyu Xing, Wentao Han, Yixin Hao, Chenchen Zhang, Ying Zhang, Chun-Han Kuo, Han-Yi Chen, Feng Hu, Linlin Li, and Shengjie Peng\**

**Demetalation caused by the electrochemical dissolution of metallic Fe atoms is a major challenge for the practical application of Fe**─**N**─**C catalysts. Herein, an efficient single metallic Mn active site is constructed to improve the strength of the Fe**─**N bond, inhibiting the demetalation effect of Fe**─**N**─**C. Mn acts as an electron donor inducing more delocalized electrons to reduce the oxidation state of Fe by increasing the electron density, thereby enhancing the Fe**─**N bond and inhibiting the electrochemical dissolution of Fe. The oxygen reduction reaction pathway for the dissociation of Fe**─**Mn dual sites can overcome the high energy barriers to direct O**─**O bond dissociation and modulate the electronic states of Fe**─**N4 sites. The resulting FeMn**─**N**─**C exhibits excellent ORR activity with a high half-wave potential of 0.92 V in alkaline electrolytes. FeMn**─**N**─**C as a cathode catalyst for Zn-air batteries has a cycle stability of 700 h at 25 °C and a long cycle stability of more than 210 h under extremely cold conditions at −40 °C. These findings contribute to the development of efficient and stable metal-nitrogen-carbon catalysts for various energy devices.**

**1. Introduction**

The development of renewable and clean energy sources has become particularly important with the increasing shortage of fossil energy sources and resource consumption.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) In this regard, Zn-air batteries (ZAB) have widely attracted attention with high energy density, good safety, low cost, and environmental friendliness.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) The key process of the ZAB energy conversion

C. Hu, G. Xing, W. Han, Y. Hao, F. Hu, L. Li, S. Peng College of Materials Science and Technology Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Nanjing 210016, China

E-mail: [pengshengjie@nuaa.edu.cn](mailto:pengshengjie@nuaa.edu.cn) C. Zhang, Y. Zhang

Key Laboratory of Synthetic and Biological Colloids Ministry of Education School of Chemical and Material Engineering Jiangnan University Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China

C.-H. Kuo, H.-Y. Chen Department of Materials Science and Engineering National Tsing Hua University Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202405763>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202405763**

system is the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[\[3\]](#page-10-0) The slow redox kinetics of ORR limits the overall energy conversion efficiency of the ZAB.[\[4,5\]](#page-10-0) There is a need to develop efficient ORR catalysts capable of both rapid charge transfer and mass transfer.[\[6–10\]](#page-10-0) Atomically dispersed transition metal nitrogen/carbon (Mn─N─C) has become a promising alternative to Pt-based catalysts due to its unique electronic structure and maximum atom utilization.[\[11–13\]](#page-10-0) In particular, Fe─N─C catalysts are similar to Pt in terms of O─O bond cleavage during ORR catalysis and subsequent adsorption and desorption of intermediate oxygen species.[\[14–17\]](#page-10-0) However, improvement in the performance and durability of Fe─N─C catalysts remains challenging due to the lack of understanding of the active sites, low site density, and poor stability limitations.

Many current studies have focused on the activity and selectivity of Fe─N─C in electrocatalysis, while limited attention has

been paid to its dissolution during electrochemical processes, which leads to demetalation of Fe─N─C.[\[18–20\]](#page-10-0) Demetalation can destroy the active sites and contaminate the polymer electrolyte, all of which can negatively affect the performance as well as the stability of Fe─N─C.[\[21–23\]](#page-10-0) Solving the demetalation problem should be an essential task for Fe─N─C catalysts before practical application. According to recent investigations, one of the potential strategies is to block the demetalation of Fe─N─C by interacting with metal particles or clusters.[\[24\]](#page-10-0) However, the mechanisms by which metal particles and clusters stabilize Fe─N─C are still poorly understood. Single-atom sites as an effective strategy to prevent Fe─N─C demetalation have rarely been reported. Meanwhile, the properties of Fe─N─C are changed following the introduction of other single metallic sites, and how the change prevents demetalation has not been fully elucidated. The valence multiplicity of Mn can act as an electron donor to enhance the M─N bond by increasing the electron density, which is expected to be the active site for inhibiting Fe─N─C demetalation. Therefore, constructing Fe─Mn dual metallic sites to modulate the electronic structure of the Fe active sites and strengthen the Fe─N bond is an effective strategy to improve the intrinsic activity and stability of Fe─N─C.

In this work, Fe─Mn dual atomic catalysts were successfully prepared on carbon nanofibers for efficient and stable ORR by the electrospinning-pyrolysis-etching route. The key

intermediate state (Fe─O─O─Mn) is successfully formed at the Fe─Mn sites, which efficiently catalyzes the ORR following the dual-site mechanism and promotes the generation and rapid fracture of O─O radical intermediates. FeMn─N─C exhibits a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.92 V and an onset potential (*E*oneset) of 1.05 V in alkaline media, respectively. Interestingly, the Mn sites can induce an electron delocalization effect in the d orbitals of the Fe center to increase the electron density of the Fe─N4 sites, thereby enhancing the Fe─N bond and ensuring the strong stability of the FeMn─N─C catalysts in ZABs. FeMn─N─C exhibits high specific capacity (795 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1) and long-lasting stability (700 h) as ZAB cathode catalysts. In addition, the lowtemperature FeMn─N─C-based ZABs have a power density of 42 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and are cycled for more than 210 h at −40 °C under extremely cold conditions.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

**Figure [1](#page-2-0)**a shows the synthesis procedure of the FeMn─N─C catalyst. First, ZIF-8, FeCl3, and Mn(CH3COO)2·4H2O were uniformly dispersed into a polyacrylonitrile (PAN) solution. 3D carbon film precursors consisting of 1D carbon fibers interwoven with each other were obtained by electrospinning. Afterward, the microstructure was stabilized by pre-oxidation, and the fusion of the carbon fibers was prevented in the subsequent carbonization process. It is worth noting that the carbon fibers obtained after pre-oxidation have a smooth surface and a uniform diameter (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Then the 3D film obtained from pre-oxidation was further carbonized in Ar, where the zinc species rapidly evaporated in the carbon skeleton to form a large number of pores.[\[25\]](#page-10-0) Simultaneously, the Fe and Mn precursors were in situ pyrolyzed and coordinated with neighboring N atoms, and atomically dispersed Fe─N4/Mn─N4 groups were obtained by acid etching.

The crystal structures of different samples were examined using X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurement. The presence of only two characteristic peaks at 25.2° and 43.7° corresponding to amorphous graphite in the XRD patterns of FeMn─N─C, Fe─N─C and Mn─N─C proved the absence of any crystalline species (Figure S2, Supporting Information).[\[26\]](#page-10-0) In contrast, the characteristic diffraction peaks of metal crystalline species were present in the XRD pattern of FeMn─N─C before etching, indicating the successful removal of metal crystallites by acid etching (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images illustrated that the carbon fibers in all samples enriched with abundant open pores interlace together to form a 3D network with a compact structure (100–200 nm in diameter) (Figure [1b,c,](#page-2-0) Figures S4 and S5, Supporting Information). Compared with the SEM morphology of FeMn─N─C before etching, the microgeometry of FeMn─N─C remained intact during the etching operation (Figure S6, Supporting Information). Thus, the pores were formed during pyrolysis due to volatilization of Zn and structural collapse of ZIF-8.[\[27\]](#page-10-0) The further Brunauer–Emmett–Teller spec (BET) specific surface analysis revealed that the rich pore structure endowed FeMn─N─C with a large specific surface area (Figure S7 and Table S2, Supporting Information), which is crucial to facilitate mass transfer. The rich pore structure of carbon fiber membranes is important for electrochemical conduction. The carbon layer burying the active center inside the fiber is completely exposed by the creation of the porous structure, significantly increasing the utilization of the active sites.[\[28,29\]](#page-10-0) In addition, the optimization of the carbon fiber pore structure is essential to improve gas diffusion, electrolyte permeation, and electron conduction and enhance the catalytic reaction kinetics. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurement was used first to investigate the microstructure of FeMn─N─C before etching. Some crystalline metal particles present in the carbon fibers were observed (Figure S8, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [1d,](#page-2-0) the absence of crystalline particles in the carbon fibers as well as the conspicuous interconnected mesopores with diameters ranging from 20 to 50 nm in the carbon fibers of FeMn─N─C after etching were observed by TEM images. Furthermore, the uniformly distributed Fe─Mn atoms without obvious aggregation in the carbon skeleton were identified by aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy (AC-TEM) (Figure [1e,f\)](#page-2-0). Several adjacent distribution highlights in the carbon structure indicated randomly distributed pairs of Fe─Mn atoms (green boxes), with a proportion of Fe─Mn dual atom sites of about 47%. Higher stability is maintained in isolated Fe─Mn atoms, which may be due to the strong confinement and covalent coordination effects of the ZIF-derived porous carbon framework. In the Fe─Mn dual metallic site, Mn was able to modulate the Fe electronic structure, and increased the Fe─N4 electron density (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0). Elemental mapping images indicated Fe, Mn, N, and C elements were consistently distributed in FeMn─N─C (Figure [1h\)](#page-2-0). The above results indicate that atomically dispersed Fe─Mn dual metallic sites coexisting in a porous carbon matrix are successfully prepared by the electrospinningcarbonizing-acid etching route.

The chemical components of different samples were further investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS survey spectra of FeMn─N─C, Fe─N─C, and Mn─N─C are shown in Figure S9, Supporting Information, obvious peaks corresponding to C, N, and O were observed in all the samples, while oxygen originates from oxygenated species adsorbed from the environment. The peaks regarding Fe and Mn were insignificant due to their lower content. The metal contents of the different samples as determined by XPS survey spectra were presented in Table S3, Supporting Information. The high resolution C 1s XPS spectra of FeMn─N─C, Fe─N─C, and Mn─N─C were presented in Figure S9a–c, Supporting Information. The deconvoluted peak corresponding to C─N bond at 285.8 eV existed in all the samples demonstrating that N atoms are doped throughout the nanofibres substrate.[\[30\]](#page-10-0) The high-resolution N 1s XPS spectra of FeMn─N─C, Fe─N─C, and Mn─N─C were both deconvoluted into four peaks corresponding to Pyridine-N, Pyrrolic-N, Graphitic-N, and metal-N (Figure S10d–f, Supporting Information).[\[31\]](#page-10-0) The presence of metal-N indicates the successful coordination of the Fe/Mn atoms with the N atoms. The high resolution Fe XPS spectra of FeMn─N─C, Fe─N─C and the high resolution Mn XPS spectra of FeMn─N─C, Mn─N─C showed no apparent peaks, which is due to the relatively low Fe and Mn loadings (Figure S11, Supporting Information).

Coordination environment and oxidation state of Fe─Mn studied by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). The Fe K-edge Xray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) of Fe─N─C was close to Fe2O3, suggesting that Fe was nearly at +3 oxidation state (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0). The Fe oxidation state of FeMn─N─C was lower than

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthesis method and morphological characterization of catalysts. a) Schematic of the synthesis process with FeMn─N─C. b,c) SEM images of FeMn─N─C. d) TEM image of FeMn─N─C. e,f) AC-TEM images of FeMn─N─C. g) Dual-site structural electron interaction of FeMn─N─C. h) Elemental mapping of FeMn─N─C.

www.advmat.de

15214965, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced of infelbhary.wile.g.com/doi/o/1.0102/adma.202405763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. a) Normalized Fe K-edge XANES spectra of FeMn–N–C, Fe $_2$ O $_3$ , and Fe foil. b) The corresponding valence state fitting of Fe in FeMn–N–C and Fe $_2$ O $_3$ , and Fe foil. c) The corresponding valence state fitting of Fe in FeMn–N–C and Fe $_3$ O $_3$ 0, and Fe foil. d) Normalized Mn K-edge XANES spectra of FeMn–N–C, Fe $_3$ 0, and Fe foil. d) Normalized Mn K-edge XANES spectra of FeMn–N–C, Fe $_3$ 0, and Fe foil. d) Normalized Mn K-edge XANES spectra of FeMn–N–C, MnO and MnO $_3$ 0. e) The corresponding valence state fitting of Mn in FeMn–N–C and Mn–N–C. f) Fourier transform k $_3$ 0-weighted Mn K-edge EXAFS spectra of FeMn–N–C, Mn–N–C, MnO and MnO $_3$ 0. g) Wavelet transform of FeMn–N–C Fe–N–C and Mn–N–C.

Fe-N-C, as shown by the negatively shifted XANES compared to Fe-N-C. Generally speaking, the Fe<sup>3+</sup>-N<sub>4</sub> structure was commonly obtained. This occurs mostly because the low valence state of iron within the metal salt was oxidized to the greater valence state of iron during the synthesis of Fe-N-C.[32] Previous studies have shown that the presence of Fe<sup>2+</sup> during the ORR reaction is highly favorable for accelerating the overall  $4e^-$  process.<sup>[33]</sup> In the present work, the introduction of the single site Mn caused an asymmetric distribution of charges around the Fe center site, while the difference in electronegativity between Fe and Mn led to the change in charge density of Fe-N-C. Simultaneously, a noteworthy negative shift of the FeMn-N-C absorption edge verified a decline in the Fe oxidation state and an elevation in the electron density (Figure 2b). Thus, the introduction of the Mn site resulted in a transition from Fe with a high oxidation state to Fe with a low oxidation state. Adding Mn sites can balance the adsorption strength of O\* intermediates. The synthesized catalyst structure

was analyzed using the Fe K-edge Fourier-transformed EXAFS (FT-EXAFS) spectroscopy (Figure S12 and Table S4, Supporting Information). FeMn-N-C and Fe-N-C exhibited a strong peak for the Fe-N bond at around 1.5 Å (Figure 2c).[34] Meanwhile, the peak position of FeMn-N-C negatively shifted, indicating Fe-N bond length was shortened, thereby enhancing the Fe-N bond and enhancement stability. The Mn K-edge XANES of FeMn-N-C was between MnO and MnO2, suggesting that the Mn oxidation state was between +2 and +3. The Mn K-edge XANES of Mn-N-C was close to MnO, suggesting that Mn was near its +2 oxidation state (Figure 2d). Charge modulation of Fe by Mn achieved a decrease in the oxidation state of Fe and thus increased the oxidation state of Mn site (Figure 2e). Meanwhile, the Mn-N bond had a primary peak at about 1.5 Å (Figure 2f). The absence of Mn-Mn bonds further demonstrated that the Mn species were dispersed in an atomic-level state. We performed the wavelet-transform EXAFS (WT-EXAFS) of synthesized catalysts

www.advmat.de

1921/495, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atanta.202405763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) LSV curves of FeMn-N-C, Fe-N-C, and Pt/C in 0.1 M KOH. b) Tafel slope for the resultant catalysts and Pt/C in 0.1 M KOH. c) The comparison of  $E_{onset}$  and  $E_{1/2}$ . d) ORR polarization curves of FeMn-N-C at different rotating sweeps. Inset: the fitted K-L plots and electron transfer numbers. e) H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield and electron transfer number of FeMn-N-C and Pt/C. f) Plots of current densities as functions of scan rates. g) Schematic representation of ORR properties stability oxidation state in FeMn-N-C and the half-wave potential degradation of FeMn-N-C and Fe-N-C after different cycle numbers of CV.

were shown in Figure 2g. WT-EXAFS confirmed that correlated catalysts have the highest intensities near 3 Å $^{-1}$ , indicating the coordination structures of Fe/Mn—N. Combined XPS and XAS analyses showed that the Mn sites modulated the electronic states of Fe—N $_4$  sites and increased the electron density, thereby inhibiting the electrochemical dissolution of Fe.

The oxygen electrocatalytic activity of the synthesized catalysts was evaluated by a three-electrode system in  $O_2$  or  $N_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. The cyclic voltammetry (CV) test was first conducted to predict the catalytic capacity of these samples. As depicted in Figure S13, Supporting Information, all samples exhibited a well-defined reduction peak, demonstrating a definite oxygen reduction behavior, while the most positive peak position in FeMn—N—C implied the superior catalytic activity. Linear scanning voltammetric (LSV) curves were obtained to further identify the activity differences of different samples. The FeMn—N—C showed an  $E_{\rm onset}$  of 1.05 V and an  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.92 V, which was superior to Fe—N—C (0.89 V), Mn—N—C (0.82 V), Pt/C (0.86 V), and other M—N—C catalysts (Figure 3a,c).  $^{[36-43]}$  The FeMn—N—C showed the Tafel slope of 70.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>,

which was lower than that of Fe-N-C, Mn-N-C, and Pt/C (Figure 3b), demonstrating a rapid kinetic reaction rate. [44] Furthermore, FeMn-N-C exhibited ORR activity superior to most previously reported dual metallic single-atom site catalysts (Table S5, Supporting Information). The Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots linearity in the potential range of 0.3-0.6 V verifies that 3.98 electrons have been transported for FeMn-N-C (Figure 3d, Figure \$14, Supporting Information). The hydrogen peroxide yield of different samples was further obtained by rotating ring disc electrode (RRDE) measurements (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The lowest  $H_2O_2$  yield in FeMn—N—C was below 3%, further demonstrating a nearly 4 reaction electron transfer number (Figure 3e, Figure S16, Supporting Information). Thus, the electronic interactions between Fe-Mn sites lead to an increase in the density of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> centers, which was a key factor in improving the intrinsic activity and stability of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites.

Generally, constructing a porous structure can increase the contact area between the material and the electrolyte, while facilitating the mass transfer. Therefore, CV curves at different scan rates in the non-Faraday zone were collected to calculate the

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202405763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

electrochemical double layer capacitance (*C*dl). *C*dl is positively correlated with the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), which is considered to be an indicator of the usable active surface area of the catalyst.[\[45\]](#page-10-0) FeMn─N─C exhibited the largest *C*dl value of 11.74 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared to Fe─N─C (10.4 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Mn─N─C (5.58 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), indicating the largest ECSA and the most exposed active sites, thus promoting increased activity (Figure [3f,](#page-4-0) Figure S17, Supporting Information). The long-term durability of catalysts was evaluated by continuous cyclic voltammetry cycles at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in the range of 0.5 to 1 V (versus RHE). LSV tests after 10 000, 20 000, and 50 000 cycles of CV demonstrated that the half-wave potentials of FeMn─N─C were only decreased by 4, 9, and 19 mV, respectively, which was much lower than the degradation of Fe─N─C (Figure [3g](#page-4-0) and Figure S18, Supporting Information). Additionally, after 10 000 CV cycles, FeMn─N─C still maintained a H2O2 yield of less than 6% (Figure S19, Supporting Information). The above electrochemical test results demonstrated the superior long-term durability and stable four-electron catalytic pathway of FeMn─N─C. The introduction of Mn not only modulated the charge structure of Fe to form a lower oxidation state leading to resist reduction, but also suppressed the demetallization of Fe, thus effectively enhancing the stability of the FeMn─N─C. Therefore, CV cycling and ICP-OES tests were carried out to evaluate the molar dissolution rate of Fe after the stability tests. As shown in Figure S20, Supporting Information, after 20 000 CV cycles, the molar dissolution rate of Fe in FeMn─N─C was 2.49%, whereas in the same situation, Fe─N─C reached 5.84%, proving that the demetallization of Fe in FeMn─N─C was suppressed successfully.

The post-stability test characterizations were used to further demonstrate the structural stability of FeMn─N─C. All poststability test characterizations were performed after 20 000 CV cycles with a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in the potential range of 0.5–1.0 V (versus RHE). XRD patterns first confirmed the absence of any crystalline metal species formation in FeMn─N─C after the stability test (Figure S21, Supporting Information). SEM and TEM measurements were further executed to analyze the microscopic morphology of FeMn─N─C after the stability test. SEM images demonstrated that the carbon nanofiber backbone structure was well maintained after the stability test and the pore structure without being significantly damaged, proving the excellent structural stability of the carbon nanofiber substrate obtained by electrospinning (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The well-maintained pore structure was further observed in the TEM images (Figure S23, Supporting Information). Finally, the valence and electronic structures of the elements were analyzed in depth by XPS and XAS techniques. The C 1s XPS spectrum is presented in Figure S24a, Supporting Information. The deconvoluted N 1s XPS spectrum displayed the presence of a peak belonging to Fe/Mn─N, evidencing that the Fe/Mn─N structure is well maintained in the carbon skeleton (Figure S24b, Supporting Information). The Fe 2p and Mn 2p XPS spectra were respectively illustrated in Figure S24c,d, Supporting Information, with lower signal-to-noise ratios stemming from lower metal loadings. Thus, the XANES spectra for Mn K-edge and Fe K-edge were further obtained to analyze the valence states of the metals. As shown in Figure S25a,c, Supporting Information, XANES spectrum of Mn K-edge confirmed that the valence state of Mn was between +2 and +4 after the stability tests, while the valence state of Fe was between +2 and +3 proved by the Fe K-edge spectrum. Furthermore, the FT-XANES spectra for both Fe and Mn in FeMn─N─C after the stability test displayed a peak corresponding to metal-N around 1.5 Å (Figure S25b,d, Supporting Information), further demonstrating the favorable preservation of Fe─N and Mn─N bonds without metal species generation. The above post-stability characterization confirmed that the Fe─Mn bimetallic single-atom catalysts fabricated by electrostatic spinning not only constructed the charge modulation of Mn on Fe to promote the catalyst activity and inhibited the demetallization of Fe, but also this porous crosslinked carbon nanofibers acted as a stabilizing carbon carrier to protect the metal-N bonds from being altered or disrupted in the reaction.

Considering the excellent ORR activity of FeMn─N─C catalysts, we assembled ZAB utilizing FeMn─N─C as the cathode catalyst and Zn foil as the anode. We performed a test of the electrochemical activity of ZAB at room temperature (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0). The FeMn─N─C exhibited a fairly stable open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.494 V (Figure S26, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [4b,c,](#page-6-0) the FeMn─N─C-based ZAB reached a power density of 151 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and achieved a specific activity of 795 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1, indicating excellent electrochemical performance. The use of gradient discharge curves at different current densities confirmed that FeMn─N─C had a high discharge plateau even at high current densities, which can be considered for practical applications (Figure [4d\)](#page-6-0). The OER performance of the electrodes is required for the charging process of the battery. Therefore, the OER activity of FeMn─N─C was evaluated and the result was depicted in Figure S27, Supporting Information. FeMn─N─C exhibited an overpotential of 370 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, suggesting a satisfactory OER activity for utilization in rechargeable ZAB. Moreover, the LSV curve after 2000 CV cycles showed a slight degradation compared to the initial, with an overpotential increase of 10 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 23 mV at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared to the initial LSV curve, proving wellestablished OER stabilization of FeMn─N─C (Figure S28, Supporting Information). Nevertheless, it is undeniable that the catalyst will inevitably change its intrinsic activity under continuous reduction and oxidation conditions, but having good stability can slow down this change. Owing to the above merits, FeMn─N─C was capable of stable charging and discharging for more than 700 h at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [4e\)](#page-6-0). The voltage difference increased from 1.01 V at the beginning to 1.05 V at the end, and the voltage gap only increased by 4%, indicating that FeMn─N─C had excellent charging and discharging performance applied in ZAB. In conclusion, the electrochemical activity of FeMn─N─C at room temperature was superior to most of the reported roomtemperature liquid zinc-air batteries (Table S5, Supporting Information). We further assembled low-temperature ZABs to illustrate the potential of their application at low temperatures. The low-temperature FeMn─N─C-based ZABs showed a peak power density of 42 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and provided a specific capacity of 651 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1, which could be demonstrated even in extremely cold conditions at −40 °C (Figures S29 and S30, Table S6, Supporting Information). The multiplicative discharges at different current densities also indicated that FeMn─N─C had a high discharge plateau even at −40 °C, which was a feasible prospect for practical applications (Figure S31, Supporting Information). As can be seen in Figure [4f](#page-6-0) and Figure S32, Supporting

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Liquid-state Zn-air battery structure schematic. b) Discharge polarization curves and corresponding power density curves of the samples. c) Specific capacity diagrams. d) Rate discharge curve. e) Zn-air battery stability test of FeMn─N─C at 25 °C (@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). f) Solid-state Zn-air battery stability test of FeMn─N─C at −40 °C (@2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). g) Photograph of the knittable fibrous zinc-air battery with a diameter of 1.75 mm. Demonstration of the fibrous zinc-air battery under spiral form. h) Galvanostatic discharge and charge profiles of a fibrous zinc-air battery (@1 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2).

Information, FeMn─N─C can be continuously charged and discharged for more than 210 h at 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

To further explore the potential of FeMn─N─C applications, a stainless steel-coated catalyst was used as the cathode to assemble the braidable fiber Zn-air battery (Figure S33, Supporting Information). Figure 4g demonstrated that fiber-based Zn-air batteries had a diameter of about 1.75 mm, so they can be transformed into a variety of shapes and not be damaged. The electrolyte used in fiber batteries was made from polymerized acrylic monomers with excellent flexibility. Because the solid electrolyte was almost neutral and fused with the zinc wire, the zinc wire was shielded from corrosion. In order to absorb KOH for electrochemical reactions, a solid electrolyte containing zinc filaments was submerged in a KOH electrolyte prior to cathodic wrapping. To preserve flexibility, the solid electrolyte sticks to the zinc wire even after it has been submerged in the KOH electrolyte. As shown in Figure S34a, Supporting Information, the FeMn─N─C displayed a power density of 108 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2. In addition to the discharge performance, the FeMn─N─C drive fiber cell had outstanding stability, capable of stable cycling for over 35 h (Figure 4h and

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a,b) In situ FTIR spectra for FeMn─N─C and Fe─N─C in 0.1 m KOH. c) The detailed variations of ─O─O─ and ─OOH with potential. d,e) The variations of wavenumber with potential. f) Scheme of the relationship between structure-activity-potential. g) Reaction mechanism of FeMn─N─C and Fe─N─C.

Figure S34b, Supporting Information). Knitting FeMn─N─Cpowered fiber batteries into hats or gloves could power smartwatches (Figure S34c, Supporting Information). Fiber batteries could work continuously under different degrees of bending to power digital clocks, LEDs, and light strips, proving that fiber batteries can maintain excellent performance under any bending conditions (Figure S34d, Supporting Information). The findings above imply that the FeMn─N─C assembled fiber ZABs can be integrated into fabrics having the capability of wearable devices.

In situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) was performed under ORR operating conditions, enabling sensitive capture of reactive atoms and identification of reaction mechanisms. As shown in **Figure 5**a, a clear IR absorption band was observed near 1100 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with increasing potential. The absorption band in the region of ≈1060–1150 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is related to the infrared absorbed by \*O─O.[\[46\]](#page-10-0) Thus, the vibrations with voltage changes indicated the production of O─O at the Fe─Mn dual site during the ORR process, forming the Fe─O─O─Mn conformation. The FTIR test results of Fe─N─C samples under the same conditions are given in Figure 5b. A notable absorption band in the infrared was detected at 966 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> when the voltage applied changed from 0.9 V to 0.3 V. Usually, the IR vibrational peak at ≈900 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponds to the IR vibration of \*OOH at the single metallic site, so the creation of the OOH\* intermediate was responsible for absorbing resonance at 966 cm<sup>−</sup>1. [\[47\]](#page-10-0) Consequently, the absence of the peak regarding the \*OOH in FeMn─N─C proved a dual site dissociation mechanism occurring in it.[\[48\]](#page-11-0) In recent years, three oxygen adsorption models, including the Pauling model, the Yeager model, and the Griffiths model, have been suggested in an effort to clarify the electrocatalytic process of ORR through numerous experimental testing and www.advancedsciencenews.com

ADVANCED MATERIALS

vww advmat de

321 4095, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.on.inelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202405763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions of the Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles

theoretical investigations. The model of Pauling and bridge is shown in Figure 5f. The kind of oxygen desorption dominates the reaction route, for example, the Pauling and Griffiths model, where unit-point oxygen adsorption prefers to proceed via an association pathway. Meanwhile, dissociation pathways are more likely to occur when oxygen molecule adsorption presents a bridge model. For single atomic catalysts, the association pathway is a well-recognized mechanism, as the Pauling model has a low-energy hybridized orbital structure as well as isolated atomic site confinement. However, in this pathway, the ORR process requires O<sub>2</sub>\* → OOH\* as a decisive step to start the subsequent reaction. Dissociation pathways with direct O-O cleavage allows immediate 4e- transference in one step, skips kinetically slow  $O_2^* \to OOH^*$  step. Rapid proton-electron transfer to the O\* intermediate simplifies the ORR step and improves the oxygen conversion efficiency.

When the ORR potential exceeds 1.0 V, the -O-O- band vibrates at a fast-increasing intensity. For Fe-N-C, there was a weak enhancement in the intensity of characteristic peaks of OOH\* after 0.90 V (Figure 5c). Fe-Mn dual sites in atomically distributed bimetallic catalysts may had the ability to speed up the conversion of O<sub>2</sub> into -O-O- and the creation of Fe-O-O-Mn intermediate structures. The Fe-O-O-Mn site can efficiently sever the O-O bond without generating OOH\* to modulate the intrinsic scalar relationship for fast kinetics (Figure 5d,e). Figure 5g shows the reaction mechanism between single metal sites and ORR intermediates versus bimetallic sites and oxygen species. OOH\* was adsorbed on the Fe center by terminal adsorption. Due to the large formation barriers and the difficulty of desorption of the OOH\* intermediates, the generation of subsequent reactive O\* species will be hindered and had slow kinetics. Unlike the single-site adsorption process, on Fe-Mn bimetallic sites, O2 molecules were preferentially adsorbed on Fe-Mn sites to form \*O<sub>2</sub> intermediates. Then the Fe—O—O—Mn intermediate with high activity will be formed driven by the reduction potential. Directly missing formation of OOH\* reduced the reaction energy barrier and enabled efficient ORR.

Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations were performed in order to reveal the potential mechanism of the efficient ORR. Figure \$35a,c, Supporting Information shows optimized Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub>, Fe-N<sub>4</sub> and Mn-N<sub>4</sub> structures, respectively. We found that the O-O bond length was larger for Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub>, suggesting that a dual-site mechanism can easily achieve O-O cleavage. Furthermore, the significant enhancement of the electron density in the active center of Fe—N₄ after the introduction of the Mn site indicated that Mn had an electronic modulation effect on Fe (Figure 6b). Figure 6a and Figure \$36, Supporting Information displayed the free energies of the oxygen intermediates after adsorption on the model established. Reaction energy barriers were an important feature in judging the rate-determining step (RDS). [49–53] At U = 0 V, for Fe–N<sub>4</sub>, the generation of OOH\* was an exothermic process able to proceed spontaneously, while the energy barrier difference in this part was small compared to O\* formation. For Mn-N<sub>4</sub>, all oxygen intermediates were exothermic and proceeded spontaneously, while the difference in energy barrier from O<sub>2</sub> to OOH\* was small. In contrast, Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub> was able to avoid the formation of OOH\* intermediates by directly breaking the O-O bond. Formation of intermediate O\* was

a spontaneous process, which meant that not only the formation of OOH\* was avoided but also O2 to O\* was thermodynamically more favorable. The RDSs for both Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub>, Fe-N<sub>4</sub>, and  $Mn-N_4$  were the desorption of \*OH. At U = 1.23 V, the energy barrier of OH\* desorption on Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub> (0.31 eV) was lower than Fe-N<sub>4</sub> (0.54 eV) and Mn-N<sub>4</sub> (0.65 eV), which ensured the fast kinetic rate. To further demonstrate that the electron transfer induced by the single metallic site Mn modulates the d-electron orbitals of the central Fe atom, we have performed density of states (DOS) calculations. As shown in Figure 6c,d and Figure \$37, Supporting Information, DOS analysis can be used to assess the binding strength of intermediate oxygen species to the active center. The d-band center of Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub> model was -6.86 eV, which was higher than Fe-N<sub>4</sub> (-6.01 eV) and Mn-N<sub>4</sub> (-5.57 eV), suggesting that there was a suitable binding energy between Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub> and oxygen intermediates, and it was easier to dissociate for the subsequent reaction.<sup>[54]</sup> In addition, the decreasing trend of the d-band was more pronounced in Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub>, suggesting that the single metallic Mn sites had a stronger electronic modulation of the Fe atoms.

In order to reveal the activity of the Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub> sites as well as the mechanism of enhancement of the stability, we further investigated the bonding and antibonding orbitals of the spin-up and spin-down 3d-2p interactions using Crystal Orbital Hamilton Population (COHP). Projection density of states (PDOS) results showed that the Fe-N<sub>4</sub>/Mn-N<sub>4</sub> structure was not significantly affected by the  $d_x^2$ - $_y^2$  orbitals, and the distribution of the non-localized  $d_{xz}$ ,  $d_{yz}$ , and  $d_z^2$  orbitals was relatively homogeneous close to the Fermi energy level (Figure S38, Supporting Information). The presence of locally enhanced interactions in the bonding and antibonding orbitals of  $d_{xz}$ -p,  $d_{yz}$ -p, and  $d_{z}^{2}$ -p makes Fe-N<sub>4</sub> and Mn-N<sub>4</sub> difficult to dissociate the oxygen intermediates during the ORR process. As shown in Figure \$39, Supporting Information, the  $d_{yz}$ -p,  $d_{yz}$ -p, and  $d_{z}^{2}$ -p of Fe–N<sub>4</sub>/Mn–N<sub>4</sub> had nonlocal enhanced interactions in both bonding and antibonding orbitals. These results above fully demonstrated that the electron delocalization effect of Fe d orbitals can indeed easily achieve O-O cleavage, thus lowering the free energy barrier for desorption (Figure 6h). Since demetalation of the Fe– $N_4$  site involves the breaking of the Fe-N bond, the strength of the Fe-N bond is used as a descriptor for demetalation. Specifically, we quantitatively compare the Fe-N bond strengths by -pCOHP. -ICOHP increased from 1.264 to 1.971 when Mn was introduced (Figures 6e,f and S40, Supporting Information), indicating that more free electrons were able to increase the electron density around Fe−N<sub>4</sub> to lower the oxidation state of Fe and strengthen the Fe-N bond (Figure 6g). The above results confirmed that single metallic Mn sites not only increased the electron density of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites but also preferentially strengthened the bonding constituent. In situ FTIR and DFT results indicated that the formation of OOH\* intermediates can be avoided by modulating the charge distribution of Fe-Mn dual metallics, which can effectively promote the Fe-Mn sites to break the O-O bond through the bridge configuration. Meanwhile, the enhancement of intrinsic activity as well as stability at the ORR correlation potential relies mainly on the delocalized electrons to strengthen the electron density of the Fe active center, decreasing the oxidation state and increasing the Fe-N strength, thus enhancing the demetalation

www.advmat.de

1921/495, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atanta.202405763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 6. a) Free energy diagram of ORR steps on Fe $-N_4/Mn-N_4$  and Fe $-N_4$ . b) Differential charge density of Fe $-N_4/Mn-N_4$  and Fe $-N_4$ . c) DOS of Fe $-N_4/Mn-N_4$  and Fe $-N_4$ . d) d-band center of Fe $-N_4/Mn-N_4$ , Fe $-N_4$  and Mn $-N_4$ . e,f) COHP analysis and the corresponding ICOHP values of the Fe $-N_4/Mn-N_4$  and Fe $-N_4$ . g) The relationship between the calculated  $\Delta G_{OOH^\pm}$ ,  $\Delta G_{O^\pm}$ ,  $\Delta G_{OH^\pm}$  values and -ICOHP. h) The relationship between electronic effects and O-O bond cleavage.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, we successfully constructed atomically dispersed Fe-N<sub>4</sub> modified with single metallic Mn sites anchored on Ndoped carbon nanofibers. By modulating the charge distribution of the FeMn-N-C, the Fe-Mn dual sites were effectively promoted to break the O-O bond through the bridge configuration. The Mn site not only acted as an electron donor but also induced the Fe center to undergo electron acculumation, which reduced the oxidation state of Fe by increasing the electron density of the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites, thus enhancing the Fe-N bond and inhibiting the electrochemical dissolution of Fe. As a result, FeMn-N-C exhibited excellent ORR performance with an  $E_{1/2}$ of 0.92 V in 0.1 м КОН solution superior to commercial Pt/C and most catalysts reported in the references. The homemade ZABs with FeMn-N-C as the cathode had a peak power density of 151 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and a cycle stability of 700 h. In addition, FeMn-N-C as cathode catalysts to drive peak power densities up to 42 mW cm $^{-2}$  and a long cycle stability of more than 210 h under extremely cold conditions at -40 °C. This study is significant for the development of stabilized M-N-C catalysts for ZABs and other applications.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22075141, and 22101132), and the Scientific and Technological Innovation Special Fund for Carbon Peak and Carbon Neutrality of Jiangsu Province (BK20220039). The authors thank the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC), Hsinchu, Taiwan, for conducting EAXFS measurements.

#### <span id="page-10-0"></span>**Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

demetalation effect, dual atomic sites, Fe─N─C, oxygen reduction reaction, Zn-air batteries

> Received: April 23, 2024 Revised: May 25, 2024 Published online: June 6, 2024

- [1] J. Li, M. T. Sougrati, A. Zitolo, J. M. Ablett, I. C. Oguz, T. Mineva, I. ˘ Matanovic, P. Atanassov, Y. Huang, I. Zenyuk, A. Di Cicco, K. Kumar, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, G. Draži´c, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 10.
- [2] Z. H. Chen, X. W. Peng, Z. X. Chen, T. Z. Li, R. Zou, G. Shi, Y. F. Huang, P. Cui, J. Yu, Y. L. Chen, X. Chi, Z. Q. Liu, X. H. Li, L. X. Zhong, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209948.
- [3] H. Xie, X. Xie, G. Hu, V. Prabhakaran, S. Saha, L. Gonzalez-Lopez, A. H. Phakatkar, M. Hong, M. Wu, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, V. Ramani, M. I. Al-Sheikhly, D. Jiang, Y. Shao, L. Hu, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 281.
- [4] Y. Gao, B. Z. Liu, D. S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209654.
- [5] A. L. Han, W. M. Sun, X. Wan, D. D. Cai, X. J. Wang, F. Li, J. L. Shui, D. S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202303185.
- [6] J. J. Cai, H. J. Zhang, Y. Q. Xiong, T. O. Yang, Z. Q. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2370257.
- [7] L. Huang, M. Wei, R. J. Qi, C. L. Dong, D. Dang, C. C. Yang, C. F. Xia, C. Chen, F. M. Li, B. You, B. Y. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6703.
- [8] Y. F. Zhao, Z. Y. Shen, J. J. Huo, X. J. Cao, P. F. Ou, J. P. Qu, X. M. Nie, J. Q. Zhang, M. H. Wu, G. X. Wang, H. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202308349.
- [9] A. Han, X. Wang, K. Tang, Z. Zhang, C. Ye, K. Kong, H. Hu, L. Zheng, P. Jiang, C. Zhao, Q. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19262.
- [10] Y. P. Chen, X. S. Zheng, J. Y. Cai, G. Q. Zhao, B. X. Zhang, Z. X. Luo, G. M. Wang, H. G. Pan, W. P. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 7406.
- [11] Y. Xiong, H. Li, C. Liu, L. Zheng, C. Liu, J. O. Wang, S. Liu, Y. Han, L. Gu, J. Qian, D. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110653.
- [12] H. J. Huang, D. S. Yu, F. Hu, S. C. Huang, J. N. Song, H. Y. Chen, L. L. Li, S. J. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202116068.
- [13] H. J. Huang, A. M. Huang, D. Liu, W. T. Han, C. H. Guo, H. Y. Chen, L. L. Li, H. Pan, S. J. Peng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2303109.
- [14] X. Wan, Q. Liu, J. Liu, S. Liu, X. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Shang, R. Yu, J. Shui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2963.
- [15] G. Y. Xing, M. M. Tong, P. Yu, L. Wang, G. Y. Zhang, C. G. Tian, H. G. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202211098.
- [16] Y. Zhou, R. Lu, X. Tao, Z. Qiu, G. Chen, J. Yang, Y. Zhao, X. Feng, K. Mullen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 3647.
- [17] K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 2404.
- [18] J. Shan, C. Ye, Y. Jiang, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabo0762.
- [19] X. Wei, S. Song, W. Cai, X. Luo, L. Jiao, Q. Fang, X. Wang, N. Wu, Z. Luo, H. Wang, Z. Zhu, J. Li, L. Zheng, W. Gu, W. Song, S. Guo, C. Zhu, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 181.

- [20] Y. C. Wang, W. Huang, L. Y. Wan, J. Yang, R. J. Xie, Y. P. Zheng, Y. Z. Tan, Y. S. Wang, K. Zaghib, L. R. Zheng, S. H. Sun, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eadd8873.
- [21] N. Yang, L. Peng, L. Li, J. Li, Q. Liao, M. Shao, Z. Wei, *Chem. Sci.* **2021**, *12*, 12476.
- [22] R. Chenitz, U. I. Kramm, M. Lefevre, V. Glibin, G. Zhang, S. Sun, J.-P. Dodelet, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 365.
- [23] D. Xia, C. Yu, Y. Zhao, Y. Wei, H. Wu, Y. Kang, J. Li, L. Gan, F. Kang, *Chem. Sci.* **2021**, *12*, 11576.
- [24] X. Xie, C. He, B. Li, Y. He, D. A. Cullen, E. C. Wegener, A. J. Kropf, U. Martinez, Y. Cheng, M. H. Engelhard, M. E. Bowden, M. Song, T. Lemmon, X. S. Li, Z. Nie, J. Liu, D. J. Myers, P. Zelenay, G. Wang, G. Wu, V. Ramani, Y. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 1044.
- [25] X. P. Han, X. F. Ling, Y. Wang, T. Y. Ma, C. Zhong, W. B. Hu, Y. D. Deng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 5359.
- [26] L. Fan, P. F. Liu, X. Yan, L. Gu, Z. Z. Yang, H. G. Yang, S. Qiu, X. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10667.
- [27] G. Dey, R. Jana, S. Saifi, R. Kumar, D. Bhattacharyya, A. Datta, A. S. K. Sinha, A. Aijaz, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 19155.
- [28] X. Li, X. Huang, S. Xi, S. Miao, J. Ding, W. Cai, S. Liu, X. Yang, H. Yang, J. Gao, J. Wang, Y. Huang, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 12469.
- [29] Y. Han, Y. G. Wang, W. Chen, R. Xu, L. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Luo, R. A. Shen, Y. Zhu, W. C. Cheong, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17269.
- [30] G. Y. Xing, G. Y. Zhang, B. L. Wang, M. M. Tong, C. G. Tian, H. G. Fu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 9493.
- [31] W. Li, B. Liu, D. Liu, P. F. Guo, J. Liu, R. R. Wang, Y. H. Guo, X. Tu, H. G. Pan, D. L. Sun, F. Fang, R. B. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2109605.
- [32] Z. Chen, H. Niu, J. Ding, H. Liu, P. H. Chen, Y. H. Lu, Y. R. Lu, W. Zuo, L. Han, Y. Guo, S. F. Hung, Y. Zhai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 25404.
- [33] T. Asset, P. Atanassov, *Joule* **2020**, *4*, 33.
- [34] Y. J. Wu, X. H. Wu, T. X. Tu, P. F. Zhang, J. T. Li, Y. Zhou, L. Huang, S. G. Sun, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *278*, 119259.
- [35] L. B. Zong, K. C. Fan, P. Li, F. H. Lu, B. Li, L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2203611.
- [36] S. S. Shinde, J. Y. Jung, N. K. Wagh, C. H. Lee, D.-H. Kim, S.-H. Kim, S. U. Lee, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 592.
- [37] H. Xie, X. Xie, G. Hu, V. Prabhakaran, S. Saha, L. Gonzalez-Lopez, A. H. Phakatkar, M. Hong, M. Wu, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, V. Ramani, M. I. Al-Sheikhly, D. Jiang, Y. Shao, L. Hu, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 281.
- [38] M. Zhao, H. Liu, H. Zhang, W. Chen, H. Sun, Z. Wang, B. Zhang, L. Song, Y. Yang, C. Ma, Y. Han, W. Huang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6455.
- [39] L. S. Peng, J. Yang, Y. Q. Yang, F. G. Qian, Q. Wang, D. X. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. R. Zhang, G. Waterhouse, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202544.
- [40] Z. Shao, Q. Zhu, Y. Sun, Y. Zhang, Y. Jiang, S. Deng, W. Zhang, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110172.
- [41] X. P. Han, X. F. Ling, D. S. Yu, D. Y. Xie, L. L. Li, S. J. Peng, C. Zhong, N. Q. Zhao, Y. D. Deng, W. B. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1905622.
- [42] M. Y. Ouyang, K. Papanikolaou, A. Boubnov, A. Hoffman, G. Giannakakis, S. Bare, M. Stamatakis, F. Maria, E. Sykes, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1549.
- [43] Z. C. Li, J. X. Zou, X. Y. Xi, P. S. Fan, Y. Zhang, Y. Peng, D. Banham, D. Yang, A. G. Dong, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202743.
- [44] F. Gu, W. G. Guo, Y. F. Yuan, Y.-P. Deng, H. L. Jin, J. C. Wang, Z. W. Chen, S. Pan, Y. H. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 231096.
- [45] Q. Y. Jin, C. H. Wang, Y. Y. Guo, Y. H. Xiao, X. H. Tan, J. P. Chen, W. D. He, Y. Li, H. Cui, C. G. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2302152.
- [46] Z. Zhou, Y. Kong, H. Tan, Q. W. Huang, C. Wang, Z. X. Pei, H. Z. Wang, Y. Y. Liu, Y. H. Wang, S. Li, X. Z. Liao, W. S. Yan, S. L. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2106541.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202405763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [47] C. Lin, J.-L. Li, X. P. Li, S. Yang, W. Luo, Y. J. Zhang, S.-H. Kim, D.- H. Kim, S. S. Shinde, Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, Z. Jiang, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 1012.
- [48] P. Guo, B. Liu, F. D. Tu, Y. K. Dai, Z. Y. Zhang, Y. F. Xia, M. Ma, Y. L. Zhang, L. Zhao, Z. B. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 3077.
- [49] K. Xiao, Y. F. Wang, P. Y. Wu, L. P. Hou, Z. Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202301408.
- [50] D. S. Xia, X. Tang, S. Dai, R. Ge, A. Rykov, J. H. Wang, T. H. Huang, K. W. Wang, Y. P. Wei, K. Zhang, J. Li, L. Gan, F. Y. Kang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2204474.
- [51] A. Han, W. M. Sun, X. Wan, D. D. Cai, X. J. Wang, F. Li, J. L. Shui, D. S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202303185.
- [52] Y. Yang, F. Y. Gao, X. L. Zhang, S. Qin, L. R. Zheng, Y. H. Wang, J. Liao, Q. Yang, M. R. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202208040.
- [53] Z. C. Wang, S. H. Chen, W. Wu, R. Z. Chen, Y. Zhu, H. R. Jiang, L. Y. Yu, N. N. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301310.
- [54] X. X. Yan, D. Liu, P. F. Guo, Y. F. He, X. Q. Wang, Z. L. Li, H. G. Pan, D. L. Sun, F. Fang, R. B. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210975.