---
source: Huang 等 - 2025 - Linkage Microenvironment and Oxygen Electroreduction Reaction Performance Correlationship of Iron Ph.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 10.058s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:58:55.955142Z
---

# *Forschungsartikel*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202501506 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202501506](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202501506)

# **Linkage Microenvironment and Oxygen Electroreduction Reaction Performance Correlationship of Iron Phthalocyanine-based Polymers**

*Mingtao Huang+ , Qiao Gu<sup>+</sup> , Yonggan Wu, Yuanhao Wei, Yangfan Pei, Ting Hu, Dirk Lützenkirchen-Hecht, Kai Yuan,\* and [Yiwang](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-4709-7623) Chen\**

**Abstract:** Iron phthalocyanine-based conjugated polymers (PFePc) offer well-defined sites, rendering them ideal model systems to elucidate structure–property relationships towards oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), but have struggled to achieve improved catalytic activity due to uniform electron distribution of iron center and difficulty in molecular-level structure design. Although rationally linkage microenvironmental regulation is an effective approach to adjusting activity, the underlying fundamental mechanism is incompletely understood. Herein, systematic DFT calculations and experimental investigation of PFePc analogous reveal that the incorporation of the electron-withdrawing benzophenone linkage into the PFePc backbone (PFePc-3) drives the delocalization of Fe *d*-orbital electrons, downshifts the *d*-band energy level, thereby tailoring the key OH\* intermediate interaction, demonstrating enhanced ORR performance with a half-wave potential of 0.91 V, a high mass activity of 21.43 Ag <sup>1</sup> , and a high turnover frequency of 2.18 es <sup>1</sup> site <sup>1</sup> . Magnetic susceptibility measurements and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy reveal that linkage regulation can induce a 3*d* electron with high spin-state (t2g<sup>3</sup> eg 2 ) of PFePc-3, significantly accelerating the ORR kinetics. *In situ* scanning electrochemical microscopy and variable-frequency square wave voltammetry further highlight the rapid kinetics of PFePc-3 to the high accessible site density (6.14×10<sup>19</sup> site g <sup>1</sup> ) and fast electron outbound propagation mechanism.

## *Introduction*

Metal-air batteries generate energy through anodic metal oxidation and cathodic oxygen reduction, theoretically exhibiting a conspicuous energy density that is approximately 3 to 30 times higher than commercial lithium-ion batteries, are considered as promising candidates for future large-scale applications.[1] Among various metal-air batteries, rechargeable zinc-air batteries (ZABs) have more

[\*] M. Huang,<sup>+</sup> Q. Gu,+ Y. Wu, Y. Wei, Prof. K. Yuan, Prof. Y. Chen College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering/Film Energy Chemistry for Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory (FEC)/Institute of Polymers and Energy Chemistry (IPEC)

Nanchang University

999 Xuefu Avenue, Nanchang, 330031, China

E-mail: kai.yuan@ncu.edu.cn

ywchen@ncu.edu.cn

Y. Pei, Prof. T. Hu

School of Physics and Materials Science

Nanchang University

999 Xuefu Avenue, Nanchang, 330031, China

Prof. D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht

Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences-Physics Department Bergische Universität Wuppertal

Gauss-Str. 20, 42119 Wuppertal, Germany

Prof. Y. Chen

College of Chemistry and Materials/Key Lab of Fluorine and Silicon for Energy Materials and Chemistry of Ministry of Education Jiangxi Normal University

99 Ziyang Avenue, Nanchang, 330022, China

<sup>+</sup>] These authors contributed equally to this work.

advantages in terms of cost, resource availability, rechargeability, and safety. Nevertheless, the energy output of ZABs is severely suffered from the sluggish kinetics of the electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[2] The 4-electron transfer electrocatalysis in the ORR necessitates the efficient oxygen adsorption and protonation capabilities of platinum-based catalysts to lower overpotentials, which exist constraints such as low abundance, high costs, poor stability and tolerance to methanol/CO.[3] Single-atom catalysts (SACs), especially nitrogen-coordinated Fe (FeNx) dispersed on carbon (Fe N C) materials have shown tremendous potential as alternatives to platinum-based catalysts, thanks to their uniform active sites, maximum atomic utilization, unsaturated coordination environments, tunable electronic structures, and satisfied reactivity.[4]

Up to now, the majority of reported Fe N C SACs for ORR are obtained through high-temperature pyrolysis. Although exhibiting good catalytic performance, the rigorous pyrolysis process (usually 700–1100 °C) faces many inevitable drawbacks.[5] As the temperature increases, the unstable isolated metal atoms thermodynamically tend to aggregate, making it challenging to achieve Fe N C SACs with high-density active sites. Simultaneously, the complex composition of the post-pyrolysis structure severely hinders the understanding of the structure–property relationships, debates regarding the natural catalytic activity mechanism of Fe N C materials have never ceased.[6] To this end, the pyrolysis-free strategy enables precise construction of welldefined active sites, offering the potential to elucidate structure-function relationships for the design of optimal electrocatalysts.[7] Iron phthalocyanine-based polymers

15213757, 2025, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202501506 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte*

(PFePc)[8] with well-defined Fe-N4 centers, good conductivity, precisely tunable structures, customizable active sites, adjustable porous frameworks and channels, and high thermodynamic stability, are prospective non-carbonized catalysts for ORR, offering a versatile platform for the fabrication of SACs and the investigation of the corresponding structure-property correlation towards ORR.

Typically, PFePc exhibits symmetric electron distribution on specific Fe-N4 active sites, thereby hindering the adsorption of O2 and the subsequent adsorption/desorption of oxygen-containing intermediates.[7a,9] Therefore, breaking the symmetry of electron density to reconstruct the electronic distribution at Fe-N4 sites can further improve the electrocatalytic ORR activity of PFePc. Within the scope of SACs prepared by pyrolysis, introducing molecules with atoms (O, S, P etc.) into precursors can facilitate them into the first coordination shell of monoatomic metal during the pyrolysis process, thereby breaking the symmetric M-N4 coordination structure.[10] However, altering the coordination environment of Fe-N4 sites within PFePc is extremely challenging and has been rarely reported.[11] From the structure of PFePc, it can be straightforwardly divided into two parts: building units and linkage units. As an essential component, linkage is critical for the structure and functionality of PFePc. Rationally linkage microenvironmental regulation can effectively influence the electronic distribution across the entire molecule skeleton and the electronic states of Fe-N4 active sites, thereby accelerating ORR kinetics.[12] However, fundamentally understanding the structure-function relationships and catalytic mechanisms from the perspective of the linkage microenvironment at the molecular or atomic level is elusive but significant for promoting the rational design of targeted electrocatalysts.

Herein, we design and construct three PFePc analogous with different linkage units as model platform for ORR. Through the modulation of the linkage microenvironment, the catalysts exhibit completely different ORR performances. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations illustrate that regulating the linkage units rearranges the electron distribution in the antibonding states of Fe atoms, thereby regulating the electron configuration, optimizing the adsorption of O2 and further modifying the rate-determining step (RDS) and energy barrier during ORR. X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility (M T) measurements demonstrated that the regulation of linkage units can effectively modulate the 3*d* electron density and the effective magnetic moment at Fe site, resulting in low-spin (L.S.), medium-spin (M.S.), and highspin (H.S.) states. As a result, incorporation of the electronwithdrawing benzophenone linkage in the PFePc backbone (PFePc-3) achieved decent half-wave potential of 0.91 V in 0.1 M KOH, representing advanced ORR activity. ZABs that utilizes PFePc-3 catalyst accomplished a high peak power density of 273.6 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , a specific capacity of 833.7 mAhg <sup>1</sup> and exhibited stable cycling performance over 1,350 hours without significant degradation. Furthermore, *in situ* scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM) reveals that the mass active site density (SDmass) and turnover frequency (TOF) of PFePc-3 reach 6.14×10<sup>19</sup> site g <sup>1</sup> and 2.17 e site <sup>1</sup> s 1 , respectively. This work demonstrates a molecular-level engineering approach for the targeted design of efficient electrocatalysts, not only affords new insight for revealing the ORR mechanism but also emphasizes the comprehensive impact of structural changes and electronic effects induced by the regulation of the linkage microenvironment on ORR activity.

# *Results and Discussion*

#### *Theoretical Calculations and Catalytic Mechanism*

To theoretically investigate the relationship between linkage microenvironment and the ORR activity of PFePc, three models with various linkage units were constructed to conduct detailed DFT calculations (Figure 1a and Figure S1–2). The three models with benzene, biphenyl, and benzophenone linkage units are named as PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3, respectively. As illustrated in the coloured contour plot (Figure 1b), the rate determining barrier can be characterized using two independent descriptors, ΔG\*OH and (ΔG\*O-ΔG\*OH). The ORR performances of PFePc models with different linkages exhibit distinct Sabatier-type volcano relationships. Models located closer to the volcano peak (highlighted in the pink-colored area) demonstrate lower rate-determining barriers and enhanced reactivity. The volcano plots can be categorized into four distinct regions, each governed by a specific potential-limiting step, including O2!\*OOH, \*OOH!\*O, \*O!\*OH, and \*OH!OH . [13] Modifying the linkage microenvironment significantly ad-

*Figure 1.* (a) Schematic showing the PFePc models with different linkages (in the gray ellipses). (b) The coloured contour plot ORR activity volcano of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3, and (c) the corresponding enlarged graph marked in (b).

justs adsorption strengths for oxygenated intermediates and alters the types of oxygenated intermediates in the ratedetermining step (Figure 1c). Among three PFePc analogs, PFePc-3 with the electron-withdrawing carbonyl group optimizes Fe-N4 center for intermediate binding, achieving the lowest calculated rate-determining barrier value (0.33 eV). This finding demonstrates that the linkage microenvironmental regulation effectively tailors the Fe-N4 site and PFePc-3 model is consequently emerged as the most promising structure for ORR among the three models.

The ORR mechanism, illustrated in Figure S3, primarily involves four proton coupled electron transfer steps during the electrochemical transformation process. The free energy diagram (Figure 2a, Figure S4) provides the Gibbs free energy change (Δ*G*) for each ORR step for PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 under an electrode potential of 0.46 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and pH=13. As a result, the RDS of PFePc-3 is \*OH desorption, with an energy barrier of 0.33 eV, which is lower than that of PFePc-1 (0.35 eV) and O\* protonation of PFePc-2 (0.49 eV). Moreover, for three models, the corresponding free energy changes for O\* protonation to generate OH\* intermediates or \*OH desorption was uphill. PFePc-3 can facilitate both two endothermic reactions and exhibits a lower limiting

*Figure 2.* (a) The free energy profiles of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 at U=0.46 V. (b) The ELF diagrams of PFePc-3. (c) Charge density differences of O2 chemisorbed on PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 (cyan and yellow represent positive and negative charges, respectively). PDOS plots of O 2*p* orbitals for O2 and Fe 3*d* orbitals for (d) PFePc-1 and (e) PFePc-3 after \*OH formation. (f) The COHP and corresponding ICOHP values of OH\* absorbed on PFePc-1 and PFePc-3. (g) Schematic diagram of orbitals interaction between Fe 3*d* (*d*<sup>z</sup> <sup>2</sup> or *d*xz/yz) and O 2*p* (*p*<sup>z</sup> or *p*x/y) for PFePc-1 and PFePc-3 after \*OH formation.

potential for the ORR, which leads to higher activity in the electrocatalytic ORR. Electronic localization functions (ELF) diagrams (Figure 2b, Figure S5) illustrate those three models all exhibit a continuous electron cloud distribution, and electrons are mainly delocalized in the C=C or C=N carbon skeleton compared to a benzene ring with a symmetrical structure, especially the carbonyl O atom increases the local electron density of neighboring C atom in PFePc-3. We propose that utilizing carbonyl oxygen as a symmetrybreaking agent to induce Pauli repulsion and electronelectron interactions, leading to a localized asymmetric electron distribution, thereby effectively regulating the adsorption ability and interaction of the catalyst with O2. [14]

The adsorption and protonation of O2 at the active site is the initial step in ORR, which directly influences the subsequent intermediate transformation processes.[12a] Thus, we initially concerned with the electronic state changes during oxygen adsorption to reveal the impact of the linkage microenvironment on ORR. Charge density difference (Figure 2c, Figure S6) demonstrates that the orbitals occupied by the iron atoms in the PFePc-3 model can transfer more electrons to the antibonding orbitals of O2 and are therefore more favourable for oxygen adsorption. The partial density of states (PDOS) for *p* orbitals of O and *d* orbitals of Fe were caculated for three models to further analyze the effect on O2 adsorption (Figure S7). After O2 adsorption, electrons mainly transfer from 3*d*<sup>z</sup> <sup>2</sup> orbitals in Fe atom to *p*<sup>z</sup> orbitals of O and form π*\** antibonding bonds. The presence of π*\** antibonds in PFePc-3 is closer to the Fermi energy level, suggesting an enhanced ability to absorb O2.

The main properties of the RDS dynamics for PFePc-1 and PFePc-3 were analyzed by the PDOS of Fe site and \*OH specie (Figure 2d, e). After adsorbing \*OH, the *d*-band center, marked by the orange vertical dashed line, is positioned at 1.13 eV for PFePc-3 which is a downward shift compared to PFePc-1 ( 1.06 eV). A significant hybridization between O 2*p* orbital and Fe 3*d* orbital was observed with the *p*<sup>z</sup> orbital overlapping with the *d*<sup>z</sup> <sup>2</sup> orbital to form a strong σ-bond. Differently, PFePc-3 resulted in a relatively reduced electron filling in σ bonding orbital and diminished orbital hybridization around Fermi level, suggesting a weakened bond between the Fe site and the \*OH intermediate. This result was also validated by the crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) and corresponding integrated value ( ICOHP, Figure 2f).[15] The computed ICOHP of PFePc-3 ( 1.91) is more positive than that of PFePc-1 ( 3.60), indicating a weaker adsorption strength for \*OH at Fe site in PFePc-3. Hence, it can be inferred that the presence of *d*-orbital electrons at Fe-N4 sites influences the advancement of ORR through its impact on oxygen intermediates. Additionally, π-conjugated linkage configurations linked to Fe-N4 sites have the capacity to redistribute electronic occupancy within antibonding states of the Fe atom and consequently regulate the electronic configurations of Fe-N4 sites. The precise tuning of intermediate adsorption strength was further confirmed by a downshifted *d*-band center (Figure 2g). Due to the carbonyl-induced rearrangement of electronic configuration, the enhanced interaction between corresponding antibonding state (*d*<sup>z</sup> *p*z)\* below the Fermi

level results in higher electron occupancy in PFePc-3, suggesting a weaker Fe O bonding during the \*OH adsorption process.[16] These results demonstrate that regulating the linkage microenvironment is an effective strategy for inducing precise electron redistribution at the Fe site, thereby optimizing the adsorption strength with oxygencontaining intermediates and significantly enhancing ORR.

#### *Electrocatalyst Synthesis and Structural Characterization*

To experimentally demonstrate the significance of linkage microenvironment in ORR, PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 with different linkages were synthesized. As schematically illustrated in Figure 3a, three fully conjugated dianhydrides were employed as building blocks to produce PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 by solid-phase synthesis following loaded onto a carbon black substrate through ball milling. The morphology, microstructure and compositions of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 were observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Three materials exhibit nanosheetstacked block structure (Figure S8–11). The crystal structures of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD). The absence of diffraction peaks for Fe based nanoparticles (Figure S12) suggested that the Fe was atomic dispersed, which was further corroborated by high-resolution TEM (Figure S13). The aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image (Figure 3b) revealed numerous bright spots, confirming the atomic-level dispersion of isolated Fe atoms. Additionally, corresponding element mapping images demonstrate the uniform distribution of C, N, and Fe across the PFePc-3 structure (Figure 3c).

The porosity of the as-prepared catalysts was investigated by nitrogen adsorption/desorption measurements, including pore size distribution and Brunauer–Emmett– Teller (BET) specific surface area.[17] PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 all exhibit a type IV isotherm. The pore sizes distribution profiles of three catalysts reveal a hierarchical porosity, featuring with micropores and mesopores (Figure S14, Table S1). The BET specific surface areas are 93.1, 79.6, and 116.5 m<sup>2</sup> g <sup>1</sup> for PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3, respectively. The larger BET surface area of PFePc-3 is beneficial to increase the accessibility to the active site and accelerate mass diffusion during ORR.[18]

To further confirm the structure of as-prepared catalysts, Raman and Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra were extracted. The Raman spectra exhibit characteristic fingerprint bands of FePc, verifying the successful synthesis of PFePc-1 PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 (Figure S15).[19] In the FT-IR spectra (Figure 3d), the stretching vibration peaks at about 1120 cm <sup>1</sup> are assigned to the coordination bond between central metal Fe atom and ring inner N atom. The peaks at about 900 cm <sup>1</sup> are ascribed to metal ligand vibrations, and the stretching vibration peaks at about 736 cm <sup>1</sup> are ascribed to the characteristic vibrations of backbone. The peaks at about 1445 cm <sup>1</sup> and 1586 cm <sup>1</sup> are corresponded to the stretching vibration of the C=C and C=N bonds connecting the building block, respectively.[12a] These results further proved the three target catalysts were successfully synthesized.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was further employed to investigate the elemental bonding composition of the as-prepared materials. Clear signals for Fe, N, and C were observed in PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 (Figure S16), and the corresponding element compositions were summarized in Table S2. The Fe signals for PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 can be divided into Fe3<sup>+</sup> 2*p*3/2 and 2*p*1/2, an obvious shift by �0.8 eV towards higher binding energy was observed for PFePc-3 (710.3 eV) compared to PFePc-1 (709.5 eV), suggesting that the charge is shifted outward from the Fe center by the electron-withdrawing effect of the carbonyl group (Figure S17). The C1s (Figure S18) and N1s (Figure S19) XPS spectra of three catalysts also illustrated the successful fabrication of phthalocyanine structure.[20] Meanwhile, the N1s XPS spectrum of PFePc-3 is also shifted towards higher binding energies, in agreement with the Fe 2*p* XPS result. The ultraviolet-visible spectra (Figure S20) reveal that each of the three catalysts exhibits corresponding Q-band characteristic peaks. Since the introduction of carbonyl group reduces the conjugate electrons of the phthalocyanine plane, the Q-band maximum of the PFePc-3 (691.3 nm) shows a blueshift of 6 nm compared with PFePc-1 (697.3 nm).[21]

To determine the precise coordination environment of the Fe sites, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements were performed. Figure 3e displays the Kedge XANES spectra of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3, with Fe foil, FePc, FeO and Fe2O3 as references. The preedge feature at 7114 eV for PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 is attributed to the dipole forbidden 1 *s*-to-3*d* transition, which typically reflects the amount of unoccupied 3*d* states.[22] The exact oxidation states of the Fe atoms were calculated by first-order derivatives and linear fits to the Fe K-edge XANES (Figure S21a). The first derivative curves showed that the E0 value (calculated as the highest point of the curve) of PFePc-3 (7125.9 eV) is situated between FeO (7122.9 eV) and Fe2O3 (7127.1 eV). The linear fitting result further indicated the average Fe oxidation state of PFePc-3 (+2.8) is the highest among three catalysts (Figure S21b), in agreement with the aforementioned XPS results. Additionally, the absorption edge position was considered as a function of the formal *d*-band electron count obtained from the FeO (3*d*<sup>6</sup> ) and Fe2O3 (3*d*<sup>5</sup> ) standard (Figure 3f).[23] In agreement with the DFT calculations, the introduction of carbonyl groups effectively reduced the *d*-band filling of Fe in PFePc-3 (from 3*d*5.37to 3*d*5.29), leading to a downward shift of the *d*-band center, which will optimize the adsorption energy with \*OH and ultimately accelerate the ORR kinetics.

The Fourier-transformed (FT) k2 -weighted EXAFS was carried out to determine the precise local coordination environment of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. The FT-EXAFS spectra showed a prominent peak around 1.51 Å (Figure 3g), corresponding to the backscattering of Fe N,

*Figure 3.* (a) Aberration-corrected HADDF-STEM image (isolated Fe atoms are circled in yellow), (b) HAADF-STEM and (c) corresponding EDS elemental mapping images of PFePc-3. (d) FT-IR spectra of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3. (e) Normalized Fe K-edge XANES spectra of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, PFePc-3, iron foil, FeO, Fe2O3, and FePc. (f) The fitted average formal *d*-band electron counts of Fe at PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3 based on the absorption edge of Fe K-edge XANES spectra. (g) FT-EXAFS spectra of iron foil, FePc, PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. (h) WT-EXAFS plots of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, PFePc-3, and FePc.

proving that the iron species exist in the form of Fe single atom.[6a] Additionally, wavelet-transformed (WT) Fe K-edge EXAFS contour plots revealed a single maximum intensity at approximately (3.8 Å <sup>1</sup> , 1.5 Å) for three as-prepared catalysts (Figure 3h), which is significantly distinct from Fe

foil (Figure S22). This feature is attributed to the backscattering of Fe N in the first coordination shell.[4c,24]

#### *Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction Performance*

To assess the effect of linkage microenvironment regulation on catalytic efficiency, the ORR electrochemical measurements were first carried out on three catalysts in aqueous KOH solution using a conventional three-electrode cell system with a rotating disc electrode (RDE). Linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves were used to initially assess the ORR performance (Figure 4a). As summarized in Table S3, PFePc-3 provides the best catalytic performance with an onset potential (*E*0) of 0.96 V and halfwave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.91 V, compared to PFePc-1 (0.95 V and 0.89 V), PFePc-2 (0.87 V and 0.81 V) and Pt/C (0.95 V and 0.87 V). Moreover, the PFePc-3 owns a smaller Tafel slope of 32.2 mVdec <sup>1</sup> (Figure 4b) than those of PFePc-1 (35.4 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) and PFePc-2 (65.3 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), implying faster ORR electrocatalytic kinetics. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was derived from cyclic voltammetry curves (CV) between homogeneous ranges without Faraday processes. (Figure S23). In contrast to the general trend, it demonstrates a relationship where the ECSA decreases with the increasing size of linkage (Table S4). This result indicates that the carbonyl group effectively modulates the intrinsic activity of the Fe sites, resulting in optimal ORR activity, even though PFePc-3 has the smallest ECSA.

In attempts to investigate the ORR kinetics of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3, the kinetic current density (*j*k) and the normalized *j*<sup>k</sup> by ECSA were employed, the PFePc-3 demonstrated a more positive *E*<sup>0</sup> of 0.97 V for normalized *j*<sup>k</sup> than PFePc-1 (0.94 V) and PFePc-2 (0.89 V) (Figure 4c), indicating the fastest dynamics. The *j*<sup>k</sup> and mass activity (*J*m) under 0.90 V and the *E*1/2 were further figured out to fairly assess ORR kinetics (Figure 4d). In addition to assessing activity, LSV curves at different rotational speeds (Figure S24) were recorded to investigate the selectivity. Based on the LSV plots, the calculated Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots of PFePc-3 show excellent linearity at different

*Figure 4.* (a) LSV polarization curves of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, PFePc-3 and Pt/C. (b) Tafel plots of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. (c) Normalized *j*<sup>k</sup> for PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. (d) Comparison of *E*1/2, *j*<sup>k</sup> and *J*<sup>m</sup> under E=0.90 V. (e) Electron transfer number *n* and HO2 yield for PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. (f) Discharge polarization and power density curves, and (g) cycling performance at 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for the liquid ZABs with PFePc-1, PFePc-3, and Pt/C.

*Angewandte*

potentials (Figure S23), indicating the first-order reaction kinetics of ORR. Furthermore, rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) experiments demonstrated PFePc-3 exhibits the largest average electron transfer number (*n*) of 3.85 and the lowest HO2 yield within the potential range of 0.2–0.8 V (Figure 4e, Figure S25), confirming the preferential 4e ORR pathway. The above results indicate that linkage modulation can enhance intrinsic activity and improve ORR selectivity of iron phthalocyanine-based electrocatalysts, thereby accelerating the kinetics of ORR.

Inspired by the outstanding ORR performance, PFePc-3 was used as air cathode for the fabrication of liquid ZABs. The liquid ZAB with PFePc-3 achieves an open circuit potential (OCP) of 1.52 V (Figure S26), higher than those of PFePc-1 (1.49 V) and Pt/C (1.46 V). The galvanostatic discharge plot at various current densities demonstrated that the ZAB with PFePc-3 exhibits a higher discharge voltage than PFePc-1 and Pt/C (Figure S27), indicating the better ORR kinetics of PFePc-3. Meanwhile, under galvanostatic discharge at 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the ZAB specific capacity with PFePc-3 was 834 mAhg <sup>1</sup> , which was higher than those of PFePc-1 (811 mAhg <sup>1</sup> ) and Pt/C (799 mAhg <sup>1</sup> ) (Figure S28). Particularly, the ZAB with PFePc-3 showed a superior peak power density of 258.6 mWcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 4f) while the Pt/C was only 184.2 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , approximately 71% of the device with PFePc-3. Additionally, the rechargeable liquid ZAB employing PFePc-3 and RuO2 bifunctional catalysts demonstrated the capability to endure continuous charge–discharge cycling for over 1300 hours, far surpassing commercialized Pt/C (Figure 4g**)**, verifying the excellent robust of PFePc-3.

#### *Verification of the ORR Mechanism*

Since the unpaired electrons in the 3*d* orbital of the Fe-N4 can adjust the adsorption intensity of oxygen-containing intermediates, further affecting ORR.[7b,25] The electron configurations of the Fe site for the as-prepared catalysts were further analyzed by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility (M T) measurements. As widely acknowledged, alterations in the angular momentum of an unpaired electron can modify its g factor, while the interaction between an unpaired electron and its surroundings also influences the configuration of EPR spectra. The spin states of the Fe centers in PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 were determined using the EPR tests (Figure 5a). For PFePc-3, the major characteristic signals at g=5.91 and 2.09 are attributed to the axisymmetric high-spin Fe (III) (*S*=5/2), and the minor signal at g=4.21 is attributed to the medium-spin Fe species (*S*=3/2).[26] Simultaneously, for PFePc-1 and PFePc-2, the high-spin Fe (III) signal decreased significantly, demonstrating fewer unpaired electrons of Fe (III). In addition, the M T measurements were carried out to quantify the unpaired electrons on the Fe centers within PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. The increasing susceptibility (*χm*) demonstrates that the number of unpaired *d* orbital electron of Fe

*Figure 5.* (a) EPR spectra, (b) M T curves and the calculated number of the unpaired electrons of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. (c) Schematic representation of the spin transition of Fe(III) for corresponding catalysts. (d) UPS spectra collected using an He I (21.22 eV) radiation. Inset shows the enlarged view of the secondary electron tail threshold. (e) Correlation of four-electron selectivity of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 with their work function values. (f) Linear relationship of Stokes shift *vs. E*1/2.

*Angewandte*

(III) in PFePc-3 is much larger than PFePc-1 and PFePc-2 (Figure 5b). This result indicates that compared to the lowspin state of PFePc-2 and medium-spin state of PFePc-1, Fe atoms in PFePc-3 are in a high-spin state (Figure 5c), possessing an increased number of unpaired three-dimensional electrons that can readily transfer to the antibonding π*\** orbital of oxygen.[27] This facilitates oxygen binding and enables the formation of broader spin-related channels, thereby enhancing electron transfer rates and accelerating the ORR reaction.

In theory, the electron-donating capacity of a catalyst dictates the interfacial charge transfer with the associated oxygen, which holds significant implications for the ORR. To further demonstrate the impact of linkage unit regulation on ORR activity, we evaluated the electron-donating abilities of three catalysts by measuring their work functions using ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS).[28] According to UPS spectra (Figure 5d), PFePc-3 exhibits the lowest work function of 4.98 eV compared with PFePc-1 (5.11 eV) and PFePc-2 (5.17 eV), indicating the fastest electron overflow capability. Band gap analysis (Figure S29) further demonstrated that PFePc-3 possesses the smallest band gap compared to PFePc-1 and PFePc-2. The work functions of PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3 are inversely correlated with the corresponding electron-transfer numbers (*n*) (Figure 5e), indicating that the lower work function of PFePc-3 reduceds the energy barrier for providing electrons from the catalyst surface to the adsorbed O2, thus facilitating proton-coupled electron transfer steps during ORR.[29]

Furthermore, the electron transfer properties of the asobtained catalysts were examined through fluorescence spectroscopy. In alkaline medium, the fluorescence lifetime of PFePc-3 (2.93 ns) is shorter than that of PFePc-1 (5.4 ns) and PFePc-2 (5.9 ns), indicating faster electron transfer characteristics (Figure S30).Furthermore, PFePc-3 exhibits a larger Stokes shift of 199 nm compared to PFePc-1 (193 nm) and PFePc-2 (106 nm) according to the fluorescence excitation and emission spectra (Figure S31), indicating that more absorbed energy was utilized in electron transition, further confirming the enhanced electron transfer in PFePc-3, contributing to accelerated ORR kinetics.[8a,c] Furthermore, there is a well-established linear relationship between Stokes shift and *E*1/2 (Figure 5f**)**, which demonstrates a direct correlation between the rapid electron transfer ability and ORR performance of the catalyst.

To further investigate the role of linkage microenvironmental regulation in tuning the ORR kinetics, scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM) was adopted to *in situ* visualize the local ORR activity of PFePc-1, PFePc-2, and PFePc-3. SECM technology is particularly suitable for realtime monitoring of electrocatalytic processes and quantifying the number of active sites participating in electrochemical reactions, owing to its ability to monitor electrochemical transient products at the catalyst interface in micro-nano scale.[17,30] The SECM technology consists of a platinum ultra-micro electrode (UME) and an Au substrate microdisk concave electrode filled with catalyst powder (Figure 6a). The tip-generation/substrate-collection (TG/SC) mode was utilized to image the local reactivity toward ORR and conductivity for PFePc-1, PFePc-2 and PFePc-3. The scanning images of the three catalysts (Figure 6b-d) obviously reveal the contours of the conductive regions. Additionally, the corresponding SECM scanning images at various substrate potentials (Es) are provided in Figures S32–40. The maximum substrate current plots at each Es provide a visualization of the local ORR reactivity (Figure S41). At Es=0.0 V, the feedback current for PFePc-3 (556 nA) is higher than those for PFePc-1 (465 nA) and PFePc-2 (251.5 nA). These significant differences indicate that the regulation of the linkage unit can effectively enhance the electronic conductivity and ORR activity.

Moreover, the surface-interrogation SECM (SI-SECM) technique was employed to quantify the active site. Briefly, the Pt UME probe and the substrate were pretreated to obtain a clean Pt tip and fully reduced FeII-N4. Then, the substrate was switched to an open circuit and a constant voltage (0.50 V vs RHE) was simultaneously applied to the probe to oxidize FcMeOH. FcMeOH<sup>+</sup> generated at the probe and diffused to the FeII-N4 sites and was reduced rapidly to FcMeOH, resulting in positive electrical signal at the probe. This redox process produced a continuous probe current response as the FeII-N4 center was depleted (Figure S42) and the resultant tip-collected electric quantity (Qtip) was calculated to quantify Fe-N4 (Figure S43). To better confirm the actual amounts of active centers involved in the aforementioned reaction, the mass active site density (SDmass) was indirectly measured by Cdl, considering the difficulty in controlling the catalyst loading amount in the concave electrode (Figure S44). PFePc-3 achieves a superior SDmass of 6.14×10<sup>19</sup> sitesg <sup>1</sup> , surpassing PFePc-1 (4.25×10<sup>19</sup> sitesg <sup>1</sup> ) and PFePc-2 (1.19×10<sup>19</sup> sitesg <sup>1</sup> ). Meanwhile, based on the mass active site density (SDmass) determined by SI-SECM, the turnover frequency (TOF) was calculated to evaluate the intrinsic activities of Fe-N4 sites with different linkage units considering that all Fe centers participate in ORR. Delightfully, the TOF value of PFePc-3 is improved to 2.18 es <sup>1</sup> site <sup>1</sup> at 0.90 V (vs RHE), compared to 0.98 es <sup>1</sup> site <sup>1</sup> for PFePc-1 and 0.06 es <sup>1</sup> site <sup>1</sup> for PFePc-2. Based on the ORR reactivity map established from accessible SDmass and TOF values, PFePc-3 exhibits profound ORR kinetic and mass-specific activity, surpassing many recently reported Pt-free catalysts (Figure 6e, Table S5).

A progressive testing technique combining electrochemistry and *in situ* spectroscopy was used for real-time analysis to identify the types of intermediates adsorbed at the Fe site during ORR process, which facilitated further study of the dynamic evolution. The *in situ* attenuated total reflectance surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR-SEIRAS) measurements were carried out to identify dynamic changes in oxygen-containing intermediates under the application of different potentials (Figure 6f). The broad peaks at 3350–3400 cm <sup>1</sup> and the peaks at 1648 cm <sup>1</sup> can correspond to stretching vibration and bending vibration of OH bonds, respectively. Two peaks around 1440 and 1103 cm <sup>1</sup> , corresponding to the O O stretching vibration of O2 and O2 adsorbed on Fe sites, increase with applied decreasing potential indicating rapid O2 adsorption at the Fe

*Figure 6.* (a) Schematic illustration of TG/SC mode SECM setup. TG/SC mode SECM images at Es=0.0 V (vs. RHE) of (b) PFePc-3, (c) PFePc-1, and (d) PFePc-2. (e) Reactivity map derived from SDmass and TOF for PFePc-1, PFePc-2, PFePc-3 (at 0.90 V vs RHE), and advanced single-atom catalysts in literatures. (f) *In situ* ATR–SEIRAS spectra for PFePc-3. VF-SWV colormaps of (g) PFePc-1, (h) PFePc-2, and (i) PFePc-3.

site. The increasing intensity of peaks at 1180 cm <sup>1</sup> with decreasing applied potential indicates the generation of \*OOH intermediates and four-electron transfer ORR process.[31] In summary, *in situ* ATR-SEIRAS demonstrated the presence of \*O2, \*OOH and \*OH species on Fe sites of PFePc-3 during ORR process and the high selectivity for four electron process.

In alkaline media, Fe3<sup>+</sup> is deactivated by strongly adsorbed OH , while the formed Fe2<sup>+</sup> serves as the active state for ORR on Fe-based complexes. For Fe-N4 complexes, the formation of Fe2<sup>+</sup> is proposed to involve electron transfer steps, first the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-OH +H2O+e !Fe2<sup>+</sup>-OH2+ OH , followed by the initiation of ORR as Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>-OH2+O2+ e !Fe2<sup>+</sup>-O2+H2O.[32] Wherein, the redox couple of Fe3<sup>+</sup>/ Fe2<sup>+</sup> has been reported to be considered a key descriptor of ORR activity and is associated with *E*<sup>0</sup> of ORR.[3a] However, the response signal corresponding to this redox process is poorly resolved, making it challenging to investigate using traditional cyclic voltammetry. To directly visualize the interfacial charge transfer of heterogeneous catalysts and characterize the reversible redox processes and the charge transfer kinetics at the interface, variable-frequency square wave voltammetry (VF-SWV) experiments were performed.[33]

54 SWV curves were recorded at the frequencies from 0.33 to 1250 Hz and plotted the frequency-normalized current density -Δj/f responses against the logarithm of applied frequencies within the electrode potential range of the ORR response. The VF-SWV colormaps for three catalysts include two main peaks (Figure 6g–i), one is assigned to the redox Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> transformation at about 0.9 V and another is assigned to the redox Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>1</sup><sup>+</sup> couple. It should be noted that the intensity of the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> feedback for PFePc-3 is about 2 times stronger compared to that for PFePc-2, affirming the excellent electron transfer and outbound propagation capability of PFePc-3. Meanwhile, PFePc-3 exhibits a higher frequency response for Fe3<sup>+</sup> /Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> transformation than that for PFePc-1, the rapid redox transformation for Fe3<sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> conferring PFePc-3 with faster ORR kinetics. Thus, the VF-SWV results reveal that PFePc-3 possesses faster interface electron transfer capability and

ORR kinetics, demonstrating a more robust catalytic performance.

**Keywords:** single atom site **·** oxygen reduction **·** pyrolysis-free **·** iron phthalocyanine **·** linkage microenvironment

# *Conclusions*

In summary, we devised an effective linker engineering strategy to craft a series of iron phthalocyanine-based covalent organic polymers, serving as model electrocatalysts to elucidate structure–property relationships towards ORR. By regulating the microenvironment of the linkage, we effectively optimized the adsorption of oxygen intermediates and the energy barrier of the rate-determining step during ORR. As a result, due to the introduction of electronwithdrawing carbonyl linker units, the local electron density of Fe-N4 moiety redistributes, the spin state of Fe centers in the optimal PFePc-3 transitions from intermediate spin to high spin. Thus, PFePc-3 exhibits the highest catalytic activity and achieves excellent ORR kinetics, reaching a high TOF value of 2.18 es <sup>1</sup> site <sup>1</sup> . Systematic *in situ* electrochemical and structural characterizations, combined with SECM and VF-SWV methods, reveal that the high SDmass (6.14×10<sup>19</sup> sitesg <sup>1</sup> ) and the enhanced intrinsic reactivity due to the excellent electron transfer and outbound propagation capability jointly accelerate the ORR kinetics. The interactions of above merits confer the PFePc-3 a high *E*1/2 of 0.91 V and a small Tafel slope of 32.2 mVdec <sup>1</sup> towards ORR. Furthermore, rechargeable ZAB equipped with the PFePc-3 catalyst demonstrated a high peak power density of 258.6 mWcm <sup>2</sup> and an impressive long-term stability over 1350 hours of cycling without significant performance degradation. This work not only provides a linkage regulation strategy to effectively modulate the electronic localization characteristics and spin state of catalytic active sites, but also sheds lights on clarifying the corresponding structureproperty correlations and underlying fundamental mechanism for guiding advanced catalysts design.

### *Acknowledgements*

The authors acknowledge financial support from the National Youth Top-notch Talent Support Program of China, the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52373187, 52073137), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangxi Province (20224ACB204006), and the "Double Thousand Plan" Science and Technology Innovation High-End Talent Project of Jiangxi Province (jxsq2023201094).

### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

Research data are not shared.

- [1] a) H.-F. Wang, Q. Xu, *Matter* **2019**, *1*, [565–595;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matt.2019.05.008) b) Z.-L. Wang, D. Xu, J.-J. Xu, X.-B. Zhang, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C3CS60248F) Soc. Rev.* **2014**, *43*, 7746– [7786](https://doi.org/10.1039/C3CS60248F); c) L. Li, X. Tang, B. Wu, B. Huang, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2308326.
- [2] a) K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. Bao, B. Xie, B. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. Fan, H. Wang, Z. Hou, S. Huo, N. P. Brandon, Y. Yin, M. D. Guiver, *Nature* **2021**, *595*, [361–369](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03482-7); b) C.-L. Yang, L.-N. Wang, P. Yin, J. Liu, M.-X. Chen, Q.-Q. Yan, Z.-S. Wang, S.- L. Xu, S.-Q. Chu, C. Cui, H. Ju, J. Zhu, Y. Lin, J. Shui, H.-W. Liang, *Science* **2021**, *374*, [459–464;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abj9980) c) A. Mehmood, M. Gong, F. Jaouen, A. Roy, A. Zitolo, A. Khan, M.-T. Sougrati, M. Primbs, A. M. Bonastre, D. Fongalland, G. Drazic, P. Strasser, A. Kucernak, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [311–323;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00772-9) d) S. S. Shinde, J. Y. Jung, N. K. Wagh, C. H. Lee, D.-H. Kim, S.-H. Kim, S. U. Lee, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, [592–604](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00807-8); e) M. M. Hossen, M. S. Hasan, M. R. I. Sardar, J. b. Haider, Mottakin, K. Tammeveski, P. Atanassov, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *325*, [121733.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121733)
- [3] a) R. Z. Snitkoff-Sol, A. Friedman, H. C. Honig, Y. Yurko, A. Kozhushner, M. J. Zachman, P. Zelenay, A. M. Bond, L. Elbaz, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [163–170](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00748-9); b) H. Adabi, A. Shakouri, N. Ul Hassan, J. R. Varcoe, B. Zulevi, A. Serov, J. R. Regalbuto, W. E. Mustain, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, [834–843;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00878-7) c) L. Jiao, J. Li, L. L. Richard, Q. Sun, T. Stracensky, E. Liu, M. T. Sougrati, Z. Zhao, F. Yang, S. Zhong, H. Xu, S. Mukerjee, Y. Huang, D. A. Cullen, J. H. Park, M. Ferrandon, D. J. Myers, F. Jaouen, Q. Jia, *Nat. Mater.* **2021**, *20*, [1385–1391](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-021-01030-2).
- [4] a) A. Kulkarni, S. Siahrostami, A. Patel, J. K. Nørskov, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00488) Rev.* **2018**, *118*, [2302–2312;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.7b00488) b) S. Akula, M. Mooste, B. Zulevi, S. McKinney, A. Kikas, H.-M. Piirsoo, M. Rähn, A. Tamm, V. Kisand, A. Serov, E. B. Creel, D. A. Cullen, K. C. Neyerlin, H. Wang, M. Odgaard, T. Reshetenko, K. Tammeveski, *J. [Power](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.230819) [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.230819)* **2022**, *520*, 230819; c) X. Wan, X. Liu, Y. Li, R. Yu, L. Zheng, W. Yan, H. Wang, M. Xu, J. Shui, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0237-3)* **2019**, *2*, [259–268](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0237-3); d) T. Marshall-Roth, N. J. Libretto, A. T. Wrobel, K. J. Anderton, M. L. Pegis, N. D. Ricke, T. V. Voorhis, J. T. Miller, Y. Surendranath, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5283; e) G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B.-A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734.
- [5] B. Huang, L. Li, X. Tang, W. Zhai, Y. Hong, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, [2789–2808.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE00306B)
- [6] a) L. B. Li, B. Y. Huang, X. N. Tang, Y. S. Hong, W. J. Zhai, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. W. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103857; b) L. Li, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Acc. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.1c00264) Res.* **2022**, *3*, [584–596](https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.1c00264); c) Z. Yang, Y. Chen, S. Zhang, J. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2215185.
- [7] a) K. Chen, K. Liu, P. An, H. Li, Y. Lin, J. Hu, C. Jia, J. Fu, H. Li, H. Liu, Z. Lin, W. Li, J. Li, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, N. Zhang, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4173; b) K.-M. Zhao, S. Liu, Y.-Y. Li, X. Wei, G. Ye, W. Zhu, Y. Su, J. Wang, H. Liu, Z. He, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103588; c) Y. Zang, D.-Q. Lu, K. Wang, B. Li, P. Peng, Y.-Q. Lan, S.-Q. Zang, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1792; d) X. Li, T. Chen, B. Yang, Z. Xiang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202215441.
- [8] a) L. Li, X. Tang, S. Huang, C. Lu, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, K. Yuan, X. Zhuang, Y. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202301642; b) S. Yang, Y. Yu, M. Dou, Z. Zhang, L. Dai, F. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [14724–14730;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908023) c) Y. Zang, C. Mi, R. Wang, H. Chen, P. Peng, Z. Xiang, S.-Q. Zang, T. C. W. Mak, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [20865–20871.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202106661)
- [9] a) R. Cao, R. Thapa, H. Kim, X. Xu, M. Gyu Kim, Q. Li, N. Park, M. Liu, J. Cho, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2076; b) Y. Han,

- Y. Wang, R. Xu, W. Chen, L. Zheng, A. Han, Y. Zhu, J. Zhang, H. Zhang, J. Luo, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, [2348–2352](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE01481G).
- [10] a) Y. Li, H. Sun, L. Ren, K. Sun, L. Gao, X. Jin, Q. Xu, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202405334; b) Y. Zhao, H.-C. Chen, X. Ma, J. Li, Q. Yuan, P. Zhang, M. Wang, J. Li, M. Li, S. Wang, H. Guo, R. Hu, K.-H. Tu, W. Zhu, X. Li, X. Yang, Y. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2308243; c) K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b11852) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [2404–2412.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b11852)
- [11] S. Huang, D. Tranca, F. Rodríguez-Hernández, J. Zhang, C. Lu, J. Zhu, H.-W. Liang, X. Zhuang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202314833.
- [12] a) X. Li, Z. Xiang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 57; b) R. Ma, C. Tang, Y. Wang, X. Xu, M. Wu, X. Cui, Y. Yang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202405594; c) Z. Zhang, T. Wang, W. Wang, X. Wang, X. Luo, C. Cheng, X. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300325.
- [13] a) Y. Ni, L. Lin, Y. Shang, L. Luo, L. Wang, Y. Lu, Y. Li, Z. Yan, K. Zhang, F. Cheng, J. Chen, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202104494) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [16937–16941;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202104494) b) B. Huang, Q. Gu, X. Tang, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 6077.
- [14] Y. Liu, L. Li, Z. Sang, H. Tan, N. Ye, C. Sun, Z. Sun, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Nature Synthesis* **2025**, *4*, 134–141.
- [15] X. Guo, J. Gu, S. Lin, S. Zhang, Z. Chen, S. Huang, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b13349) Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [5709–5721](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b13349).
- [16] B. Huang, X. Tang, Y. Hong, L. Li, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202306667.
- [17] X. Tang, Y. Wei, W. Zhai, Y. Wu, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208942.
- [18] J. Zou, C. Chen, Y. Chen, Y. Zhu, Q. Cheng, L. Zou, Z. Zou, H. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, [4517–4525.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00408)
- [19] U. K. Ghorai, N. Mazumder, H. Mamgain, R. Roy, S. Saha, K. K. Chattopadhyay, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2017**, *121*, [6323–6328.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b10620)
- [20] X. Tan, H. Li, W. Zhang, K. Jiang, S. Zhai, W. Zhang, N. Chen, H. Li, Z. Li, *Chem [Catalysis](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.checat.2022.01.025)* **2022**, *2*, 816–835.
- [21] a) X. Wang, B. Wang, J. Zhong, F. Zhao, N. Han, W. Huang, M. Zeng, J. Fan, Y. Li, *Nano Res.* **2016**, *9*, [1497–1506](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-016-1046-5); b) S. D. Ezquerra Riega, M. C. García Vior, J. Awruch, *[Tetrahedron](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tetlet.2015.05.027) Lett.* **2015**, *56*, [4047–4049](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tetlet.2015.05.027).
- [22] a) W. Wan, C. A. Triana, J. Lan, J. Li, C. S. Allen, Y. Zhao, M. Iannuzzi, G. R. Patzke, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, [13279–13293;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c05088) b) A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M.-T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4367)* **2015**, *14*, [937–942.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4367)
- [23] a) M. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Su, Y. Jiang, W. Zhou, C. Yang, S. Bo, J. Pan, Q. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1675; b) W. Zhou, B. Li, X. Liu, J. Jiang, S. Bo, C. Yang, Q. An, Y. Zhang, M. A. Soldatov, H. Wang, S. Wei, Q. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 6650.

- [24] a) L. Zhao, Y. Zhang, L.-B. Huang, X.-Z. Liu, Q.-H. Zhang, C. He, Z.-Y. Wu, L.-J. Zhang, J. Wu, W. Yang, L. Gu, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1278; b) X. Fu, N. Li, B. Ren, G. Jiang, Y. Liu, F. M. Hassan, D. Su, J. Zhu, L. Yang, Z. Bai, Z. P. Cano, A. Yu, Z. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1803737.
- [25] a) J. Zhao, Q. Peng, Z. Wang, W. Xu, H. Xiao, Q. Wu, H.-L. Sun, F. Ma, J. Zhao, C.-J. Sun, J. Zhao, J. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2303; b) X. Li, C.-S. Cao, S.-F. Hung, Y.-R. Lu, W. Cai, A. I. Rykov, S. Miao, S. Xi, H. Yang, Z. Hu, J. Wang, J. Zhao, E. E. Alp, W. Xu, T.-S. Chan, H. Chen, Q. Xiong, H. Xiao, Y. Huang, J. Li, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *[Chem](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.027)* **2020**, *6*, 3440– [3454](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.027).
- [26] E. Bletsa, M. Solakidou, M. Louloudi, Y. Deligiannakis, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2016.02.032) Phys. Lett.* **2016**, *649*, [48–52](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cplett.2016.02.032).
- [27] a) D. Xue, P. Yuan, S. Jiang, Y. Wei, Y. Zhou, C.-L. Dong, W. Yan, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.108020)* **2023**, *105*, 108020; b) G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B. A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J. N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734; c) Z. Li, Z. Zhuang, F. Lv, H. Zhu, L. Zhou, M. Luo, J. Zhu, Z. Lang, S. Feng, W. Chen, L. Mai, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1803220.
- [28] H. B. Yang, J. Miao, S.-F. Hung, J. Chen, H. B. Tao, X. Wang, L. Zhang, R. Chen, J. Gao, H. M. Chen, L. Dai, B. Liu, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, e1501122.
- [29] a) J. Y. Cheon, J. H. Kim, J. H. Kim, K. C. Goddeti, J. Y. Park, S. H. Joo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, [8875–8878](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja503557x); b) Y. Jia, L. Zhang, L. Zhuang, H. Liu, X. Yan, X. Wang, J. Liu, J. Wang, Y. Zheng, Z. Xiao, E. Taran, J. Chen, D. Yang, Z. Zhu, S. Wang, L. Dai, X. Yao, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, [688–695.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0297-4)
- [30] a) B. D. B. Aaronson, C.-H. Chen, H. Li, M. T. M. Koper, S. C. S. Lai, P. R. Unwin, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja310632k) Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 3873– [3880](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja310632k); b) S. Cannan, J. Cervera, R. J. Steliaros, E. Bitziou, A. L. Whitworth, P. R. Unwin, *Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0cp02530e) Chem. Phys.* **2011**, *13*, [5403–5412](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0cp02530e).
- [31] S. Mondal, D. Bagchi, M. Riyaz, S. Sarkar, A. K. Singh, C. P. Vinod, S. C. Peter, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [11859–11869.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c04541)
- [32] a) J. H. Zagal, M. T. M. Koper, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604311) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [14510–14521;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604311) b) Y. Liu, X. Yue, K. Li, J. Qiao, D. P. Wilkinson, J. Zhang, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *315*, [153–177](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2016.02.002).
- [33] a) A. N. Marianov, A. S. Kochubei, T. Roman, O. J. Conquest, C. Stampfl, Y. Jiang, *Anal. Chem.* **2021**, *93*, [10175–10186;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.analchem.1c01286) b) A. N. Marianov, A. S. Kochubei, S. Gu, Y. Jiang, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00847)* **2022**, *12*, [8610–8622](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00847); c) A. N. Marianov, Y. Jiang, *Acc. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.2c00041) Res.* **2022**, *3*, [620–633.](https://doi.org/10.1021/accountsmr.2c00041)

Manuscript received: January 18, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: February 10, 2025 Version of record online: February 25, 2025