---
source: Huang 等 - 2025 - Designed Catalytic Templates for the Universal Synthesis of MetalNitrogen‐Doped Carbon Nanotubes wi.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 4.053s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:58:45.888267Z
---

<www.chemcatchem.org>

# **Designed Catalytic Templates for the Universal Synthesis of Metal/Nitrogen-Doped Carbon Nanotubes with Hierarchical Architectures for Enhanced Oxygen Reduction**

Hong Huang,[a] Xiaoyuan Sun,[a] Mingming Wang,[a] Jizheng Feng,[a] Xinyi Li,[a] Zhongfeng Wang,[a] Yanjiao Chen,[a] Wenting Lu,[a] and Xiao Zhao\*[a]

Hierarchical nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (NCNTs) with embedded metal species (M/NCNTs) offer broad applications yet are challenging to synthesize controllably. We report a universal one-step strategy leveraging the designed catalytic templates that catalyze the growth of NCNTs and concurrently direct their assembly into diverse hierarchical architectures. This method applies to various precursors from metal hydroxides to metalorganic frameworks and metal nanoparticles/carbon, yielding M/NCNTs with morphologies from plates to flowers, spheres, and NCNTs-grafted dodecahedrons. The Co/NCNTs with hierarchical architecture exhibits superior oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance with a half-wave potential of 0.851 V and high durability (negligible decay after 10,000 cycles) in alkaline relative to commercial Pt/C. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy analysis implies that the hierarchical architecture reduces the mass transfer resistance. Consequently, this Co/NCNTs enables the zinc-air battery with a peak power density of 234.1 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and a specific capacity of 798.8 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> Zn.

# **1. Introduction**

The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is pivotal for energy conversion technologies, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[\[1\]](#page-4-0) Nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (NCNTs) exhibit high electrical conductivity, chemical stability, and nonmetallic active sites, which are attractive for the ORR.[\[2\]](#page-4-0) Incorporating active metal species into NCNTs matrix and the resultant M/NCNTs possesses higher ORR performance than NCNTs.[\[3\]](#page-5-0) In particular, the hierarchical architecture of M/NCNTs facilitates charge transfer and improves mass transport to improve the power density of practical energy-conversion devices. However, controllable synthesis of hierarchical M/NCNTs remains challenging. Employing metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) as precursors, hierarchical M/NCNTs have been synthesized. For example, the NCNTs hollow frameworks were prepared using the ZIF-67 as a pyrolysis precursor and outperformed the commercial Pt/C in terms of electrocatalytic activity and stability for the ORR.[\[4\]](#page-5-0) Despite these advances,[\[2a,4,5\]](#page-4-0) a universal synthesis strategy beyond the MOF precursors and applicable to the preparation of diverse M/NCNTs has yet to be established.

Rational integration of electroactive metal sites into hierarchical structures (HAs) of NCNTs is important for practical energy conversion devices as the highly-efficiency mass transport is indispensable for realizing the high-power output and operating at large current density. Generally, the HAs have been regarded to benefit mass transport and promote the power density of devices. However, analysis of kinetic and mass-transfer resistance is not easy as they are convoluted in electrochemical devices. In this regard, distribution of relaxation times (DRT) analysis can capture mass transfer dynamics during device operation, therefore offering insights into how the HAs reduce mass-transfer resistance and promotes the rational design of devices.[\[6\]](#page-5-0)

Herein, we reported the universal synthesis approach for the production of M/NCNTs HAs using tailored catalytic templates. A variety of precursors, including shaped hydroxides, MOFs, and MNPs/C, was employed to generate M/NCNTs HAs with morphologies from plates to flowers, spheres, and NCNTs-grafted dodecahedrons. The Co active species integrated into NCNTsgrafted dodecahedrons briefly denoted as Co/NCNTs showed a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.851 V and high durability (negligible degradation after 10,000 potential cycles) in alkaline, better than a commercial Pt/C. The zinc-air batteries using this Co/NCNTs as a cathode catalyst achieves a peak power density of 234.1 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and a specific capacity of up to 798.8 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> Zn. The DRT analysis unravels the HAs of Co/NCNTs reduces mass-transfer resistance.

### **2. Results and Discussion**

Scheme [1](#page-1-0) depicts the catalytic-template strategy for the synthesis of diverse M/NCNTs-HAs. This approach applies to a variety of precursors. Specifically, Co(OH)2 plates, Ni(OH)2 flowers, Ni-1,3,5-benzene dicarboxylate (Ni-BTC) MOF spheres, and Co/NC dodecahedrons serve as catalytic templates. These templates are reduced in situ by an atmosphere of H2/Ar (5% H2) to catalytic growth of NCNTs and also act as geometric templates for

<sup>[</sup>a] H. Huang, X. Sun, M. Wang, J. Feng, X. Li, Z. Wang, Y. Chen, W. Lu, Prof. X. Zhao

Key Laboratory of Automobile Materials of MOE, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Jilin University, Changchun 130012, China E-mail: [xzhao417@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:xzhao417@jlu.edu.cn)

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202402145>

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** Catalytic template strategy for the universal synthesis of diverse M/NCNTs HAs.

the assembly of NCNTs into HAs. Herein the dicyandiamide is decomposed in situ into CNx species, which act as the precursors of NCNTs. These CNx species are transported by H2/Ar carrier gas toward the catalytic templates, where they are catalytically converted into NCNTs and subsequently assembled into HAs at elevated temperatures.

Figure [1](#page-2-0) displays scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images for the morphology of catalytic templates and the resulting M/NCNTs-HAs, with more details in Figures S1–S4. The M/NCNTs-HAs replicate the morphology of their respective catalytic templates, underscoring the versatility of the synthesis strategy. The diversity of catalytic template precursors and the variety of resultant HAs substantiate the universality of this approach. The synthesis process is delineated in the Experimental Section and comprises two interrelated stages: the generation of metal NPs and the growth of NCNTs. Initially, metal ions within the precursors are reduced at 300 °C for 1 h, with a heating ramp rate of 2 °C min−<sup>1</sup> in an H2/Ar atmosphere, yielding uniform metal/metal oxide NPs and CNx materials, where the CNx materials could act as the protecting layers to inhibit the sintering growth of metal/metal oxide NPs (Figure S5), relative to the direct hearttreatments to 900 °C (Figure S6). This step is followed by a temperature increase to 900 °C at a rate of 5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> and maintaining at 900 °C for 2 h to facilitate the growth and assembly of the NCNTs into the HAs. The choice of a 1-h incubation at 300 °C is informed by thermogravimetric analysis, which indicates a rapid decomposition of dicyandiamide at approximately 300 °C to generate CNx species (Figure S7). Control experiments reveal that direct heating to 900 °C at a rate of 5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> results in irregular metal NPs and sparse NCNTs without preserving the precursor morphology (Figure S6). In contrast, a 1-h incubation at 300 °C retains the shapes of catalytic templates (Figure S5) and simultaneously ensures generating metal NPs for the catalytic growth of NCNTs. These metal NPs are seen by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images in the insets of Figure [1a3–d3.](#page-2-0) These control experiments affirm the critical role of the 300 °C incubation in achieving the desired M/NCNTs-HAs.

Initial estimation of the ORR performance reveals that the Co/NCNTs (i.e., the Co active species integrated into NCNTsgrafted dodecahedrons) exhibit the best ORR performance among the above four samples (Figure S8). Thus, the investigations are focused on the Co/NCNTs. The Co/NC was obtained by the pyrolysis of ZIF-67 at 700 °C for 1 h in Ar (see Experimental section) and used for comparison. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns display three diffraction peaks at 44.2°, 51.5°, and 75.8° of the Co/NCNTs, corresponding to the (111), (200), and (222) planes of metallic Co (Figure [2a\)](#page-3-0), demonstrating the generation of metallic Co nanoparticles during the NCNTs growth process. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to provide surface element composition and chemical state. The full spectra and surface element contents are provided in Figure S9a and Table S1, respectively. The C 1s spectra of both samples are deconvoluted into two main peaks, assigned to the C─C and C─N bonds at 284.6 and 286.0 eV, respectively (Figure S9b). The Co 2p spectra for both Co/NC and Co/NCNTs can be deconvoluted into the Co<sup>2</sup>+, Co<sup>3</sup>+, and Co<sup>0</sup> peaks and two satellite peaks (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). The Co<sup>0</sup> peaks and Co<sup>2</sup>+/Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> can be attributed to the contributions of Co nanoparticles and Co single atoms, respectively. For the N 1s XPS spectra, both Co/NC and Co/NCNTs exhibit the pyridinic-N, Co-Nx, pyrrolic-N, and graphitic-N (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). However, a higher proportion of pyridinic-N in Co/NCNTs is found relative to the Co/NC (Figure [2d](#page-3-0) and Table S2), which may facilitate the ORR.[\[7\]](#page-5-0)

The ORR activity of Co/NC and Co/NCNTs and their 4-electron selectivity (H2O2 yield) were evaluated using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. Performance optimization of the Co/NCNTs is shown in Figure S16. The Co/NCNTs possess a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.851 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (VRHE), exceeding that of Co/NC (E1/2 = 0.824 VRHE) and commercial Pt/C (E1/2 = 0.844 VRHE) (Figure [3a\)](#page-3-0). The Tafel slope of Co/NCNTs is about 68.43 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , lower than that of the Co/NC and commercial Pt/C, suggesting a superior reaction kinetic for the Co/NCNTs (Figure [3b\)](#page-3-0). The Koutecky–Levich equation was utilized to calculate the kinetic current density. The Co/NCNTs exhibits a kinetic current density (jk) of 27.3 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at 0.8 VRHE, higher than the Co/NC of 17.0 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and commercial Pt/C of 19.9 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure S10). The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) was evaluated by electrochemical doublelayer capacitance (Cdl) in the non-Faraday region. The Cdl of Co/NCNTs is 21.5 mF cm−<sup>2</sup> , higher than Co/NC (Cdl = 13.1 mF

18673899, 2025, 7, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cctc.202402145 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** M/NCNTs-HAs. (a1) SEM image of the Co(OH)2 nanoplates. (a2–a3) SEM images of the Co(OH)2-derived NCNTs-assembled nanoplates. (b1) SEM image of the Ni(OH)2 nanoflowers. (b2–b3) SEM images of the Ni(OH)2-derived NCNTs-assembled nanoflowers; (c1) SEM image of Ni-BTC spheres. (c2–c3) SEM images of Ni-BTC-derived NCNTs-assembled nanospheres; (d1) SEM image of Co/NC. (d2–d3) SEM images of Co/NCNTs. The insets in a3, b3, c3, and d3 are the TEM images of NCNTs encapsulated with metal NPs that act as catalysts for the NCNTs' growth. The scale bars in the insets are 50 nm.

cm−<sup>2</sup> ), suggesting more active sites available for the Co/NCNTs (Figure S11). In addition, both Co/NCNTs and Co/NC show nearly 4-electron reduction processes and low H2O2 yields (Figure [3c](#page-3-0) and Figure S12). Long-term stability was evaluated by accelerated durability testing (ADT) via the potential cycling between 0.6 and 1.0 VRHE in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. After 10,000 cycles, the degradation of Co/NCNTs is negligible; however, the E1/2 losses of Co/NC and Pt/C are 5 and 12 mV, respectively (Figure S13). Those electrochemical characterizations demonstrate that the NCNTs-assembling into HAs and acting as the supports of Co active species overall enhances the ORR activity and durability.

Further, we estimate the influence of NCNTs-based HAs on mass transport via electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and the DRT analysis. The ORR polarization curves are divided into three regions: kinetic controlled region, mixed kinetic-diffusion controlled region, and diffusion-controlled region (Figure [3a\)](#page-3-0). The EIS was measured under O2- and airsaturated solutions to investigate the influence of HAs on mass transport in the diffusion-controlled region (0.4–0.7 VRHE) (Figures

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** (a) XRD patterns. High-resolution XPS spectra of Co/NC and Co/NCNTs for (b) Co 2p and (c) N 1s. (d) Content comparison of different nitrogen species based on their peak areas.

S14 and S15). In the O2-saturated solution, the DRT spectra show a weak peak for Co/NC, while no peak for Co/NCNTs at the frequency region (0.1–2 Hz) that is related to the O2 transport (Figure 3d).[\[6b,8\]](#page-5-0) This result reveals the HAs of Co/NCNTs benefits mass transport. In an air-saturated solution, the effect of HAs-enhanced mass transport becomes more significant. The DRT analysis shows that the Co/NCNTs in air-saturated solution display the much lower resistance at the frequency region (0.1–2 Hz), confirming the significantly reduced mass transport resistance as compared with Co/NC in the diffusion control region (Figure 3e–f). The reduced resistance of mass transport for the Co/NCNTs can be ascribed to its HAs that facilitate the mass transport.

The Co/NCNTs and Co/NC were used as cathode catalysts to assemble liquid zinc-air batteries (ZABs). Figure [4a](#page-4-0) illustrates the schematic diagram of the ZABs. The open-circuit voltage (OCV) of the Co/NCNTs-based ZABs is 1.52 V, which is higher than that of the Co/NC (OCV = 1.51 V) and Pt/C-based ZABs (OCV = 1.42 V) (Figure [4b\)](#page-4-0). Further, the Co/NCNTs-based ZABs achieves a peak power density of 234.1 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and a specific capacity of 798.8 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> Zn, outperforming the Co/NC-based ZABs (205.7 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and 751.4 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> Zn) and the Pt/C-based ZABs (139.6 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and 726.1 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> Zn) (Figure [4c,d\)](#page-4-0). The discharge polarization curves of ZABs can be categorized into activation, ohmic, and concentration polarization regions (see Figure [4e\)](#page-4-0). We compared the current densities at 0.8 V, a typical voltage in the concentration polarization region. Correspondingly, the current densities of Co/NCNTs and Co/NC-based ZABs are 272 and 238 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , respectively. This confirms that at the device level, the HAs of Co/NCNTs still work effectively to reduce the resistance of mass transport. Further, the Co/NCNTs-based ZABs also demonstrates superior rate capacity when changing current densities from 2 to 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure [4f\)](#page-4-0).

#### **3. Conclusion**

The universal synthesis for varying M/NCNTs HAs using tailored catalytic templates has been realized. A variety of precursors,

**Figure 3.** (a) ORR polarization curves measured in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm with IR compensation. (b) Corresponding Tafel slopes. (c) H2O2 yield and electron transfer number determined by the RRDE. Comparison of DRT plot for Co/NCNTs and Co/NC at 0.7–0.4 VRHE under (d) O2-saturated and (e) air-saturated solutions. (f) Comparison of mass transfer resistance between Co/NC and Co/NCNTs under air-saturated solution.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 4.** (a) Diagram of the liquid-ZABs. (b) Open-circuit voltage of ZABs. The inset is the ZAB-powered LED panel. (c) Discharge and corresponding power densities curves. (d) Galvanostatic discharge curves at 10.0 mA cm−2. (e) Comparison of discharge polarization curves. (f) Discharge curves of ZABs at various current densities.

including shaped hydroxides, MOFs, and MNPs/C, was employed to generate M/NCNTs HA with morphologies ranging from plates to flowers, spheres, and dodecahedrons. The hierarchical structured Co/NCNTs possesses an E1/2 of 0.851 V and robust durability (negligible decay after 10,000 cycles), outperforming Co/NC and commercial Pt/C catalysts. The ZABs using the Co/NCNTs as cathode catalyst achieve a peak power density of 234.1 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and a specific capacity of 798.8 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> Zn. The favorable mass transfer endowed by the HAs is evidenced by EIS and DRT analysis. This study shows an efficient method to prepare varying M/NCNTs HAs for advanced energy conversion and storage devices.

#### **Supporting Information**

The authors have cited additional references within the Supporting Information.[\[6c,9,10\]](#page-5-0)

# *Acknowledgements*

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (no. 22479059), the Jilin Province Science and Technology Development Program (YDZJ202401329ZYTS), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities.

#### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Catalytic templates • Metal-air batteries • NCNTs hierarchical architectures • ORR • Single atom catalysts

- [1] a) J. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, L. Dai, Nat. Nanotechnol. **2015**, 10, 444–452; b) Z. Jiang, X. Liu, X.-Z. Liu, S. Huang, Y. Liu, Z.-C. Yao, Y. Zhang, Q.-H. Zhang, L. Gu, L.-R. Zheng, L. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Fan, T. Tang, Z. Zhuang, J.- S. Hu, Nat. Commun. **2023**, 14, 1822; c) P. Rao, D. Wu, T.-J. Wang, J. Li, P. Deng, Q. Chen, Y. Shen, Y. Chen, X. Tian, eScience **2022**, 2, 399–404; d) X. Li, D. Jiao, X. Zhao, Renewables **2024**, 0, 1–8; e) M. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Su, Y. Jiang, W. Zhou, C. Yang, S. Bo, J. Pan, Q. Liu, Nat. Commun. **2024**, 15, 1675; f) Y.-L. Zhang, B. Liu, Y.-K. Dai, L.-X. Shen, P. Guo, Y.-F. Xia, Z. Zhang, F. Kong, L. Zhao, Z.-B. Wang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **2024**, 63, e202400577; g) J. Han, Y. J. Sa, Y. Shim, M. Choi, N. Park, S. H. Joo, S. Park, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **2015**, 54, 12622–12626; h) T. Meng, P. Sun, F. Yang, J. Zhu, B. Mao, L. Zheng, M. Cao, PNAS. **2022**, 119, e2214089119; i) X. Lyu, X. Gu, G. Li, H. Chen, H. Hou, J. Hu, ChemCatChem **2022**, 14, e202201192; j) X. Sun, X. Li, H. Huang, W. Lu, X. Xu, X. Cui, L. Li, X. Zou, W. Zheng, X. Zhao, Nano Lett. **2024**, 24, 14602–14609; k) X. Xu, X. Li, W. Lu, X. Sun, H. Huang, X. Cui, L. Li, X. Zou, W. Zheng, X. Zhao, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **2024**, 63, e202400765; l) C. Fu, L. Luo, L. Yang, S. Shen, X. Yan, J. Yin, G. Wei, J. Zhang, ChemCatChem **2021**, 13, 2303 –2310.
- [2] a) Y. Pan, K. Sun, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu, W. C. Cheong, Z. Chen, Y. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Liu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **2018**, 140, 2610–2618; b) J. Liang, R. F. Zhou, X. M. Chen, Y. H. Tang, S. Z. Qiao, Adv. Mater. **2014**, 26, 6074–6079; c) Z. Zhu, C. Cui, Y. Bai, J. Gao, Y. Jiang, B. Li, Y. Wang, Q. Zhang, W. Qian, F. Wei, Adv. Funct Mater. **2022**, 32, 2109401; d) M.-Q. Zhao, X.-F. Liu, Q. Zhang, G.-L. Tian, J.-Q. Huang, W. Zhu, F. Wei,

- <span id="page-5-0"></span>ACS Nano **2012**, 6, 10759–10769; e) K. Gong, F. Du, Z. Xia, M. Durstock, L. Dai, Science **2009**, 323, 760–764.
- [3] a) Y. J. Sa, D.-J. Seo, J. Woo, J. T. Lim, J. Y. Cheon, S. Y. Yang, J. M. Lee, D. Kang, T. J. Shin, H. S. Shin, H. Y. Jeong, C. S. Kim, M. G. Kim, T.-Y. Kim, S. H. Joo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **2016**, 138, 15046–15056; b) Y. Hou, T. Huang, Z. Wen, S. Mao, S. Cui, J. Chen, Adv. Energy Mater. **2014**, 4, 1400337; c) W. Y. Noh, J. H. Lee, J. S. Lee, Appl. Catal. B Environ. **2020**, 268, 118415; d) J. Lilloja, E. Kibena-Põldsepp, A. Sarapuu, A. Konovalova, M. Käärik, J. Kozlova, P. Paiste, A. Kikas, A. Treshchalov, J. Aruväli, A. Zitolo, J. Leis, A. Tamm, V. Kisand, S. Holdcroft, K. Tammeveski, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. **2023**, 6, 5519–5529; e) Q. Lu, J. Yu, X. Zou, K. Liao, P. Tan, W. Zhou, M. Ni, Z. Shao, Adv. Funct Mater. **2019**, 29, 1904481; f) J. Chen, B. Huang, R. Cao, L. Li, X. Tang, B. Wu, Y. Wu, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, Adv. Funct Mater. **2023**, 33, 2209315; g) L. Yan, Z. Xu, W. Hu, J. Ning, Y. Zhong, Y. Hu, Nano Energy **2021**, 82, 105710; h) X. Hao, Z. Jiang, B. Zhang, X. Tian, C. Song, L. Wang, T. Maiyalagan, X. Hao, Z.-J. Jiang, Adv. Sci. **2021**, 8, 2004572.
- [4] B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, N. Li, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, X. Wang, Nat. Energy **2016**, 1, 15006.
- [5] a) J. Meng, C. Niu, L. Xu, J. Li, X. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Xu, W. Chen, Q. Li, Z. Zhu, D. Zhao, L. Mai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **2017**, 139, 8212–8221; b) X. Yu, Z. Pan, C. Pei, L. Lin, Y. Lu, H. S. Park, H. Pang, Chin. Chem. Lett. **2024**, 35, 108484; c) M. Wu, J. Liao, L. Yu, R. Lv, P. Li, W. Sun, R. Tan, X. Duan, L. Zhang, F. Li, J. Kim, K. H. Shin, H. Seok Park, W. Zhang, Z. Guo, H. Wang, Y. Tang, G. Gorgolis, C. Galiotis, J. Ma, Chem. Asian J. **2020**, 15, 995–1013; d) X. Yu, Y. Li, C. Pei, Y. Lu, J. K. Kim, H. S. Park, H. Pang, Adv. Sci. **2024**, 11, 2310013.
- [6] a) Y. Lu, C.-Z. Zhao, J.-Q. Huang, Q. Zhang, Joule **2022**, 6, 1172–1198; b) Q. Meyer, S. Liu, Y. Li, C. Zhao, J. Power Sources **2022**, 533, 231058; c) J. Wu, Y.

- Zhu, A. Cai, X. Fan, W. Peng, Y. Li, J. Energy Chem. **2024**, 98, 634–644; d) A. Weiß, S. Schindler, S. Galbiati, M. A. Danzer, R. Zeis, Electrochim. Acta **2017**, 230, 391–398; e) J. Chen, E. Quattrocchi, F. Ciucci, Y. Chen, Chem-Chem. **2023**, 9, 2267–2281; f) A. Pedersen, R. Z. Snitkoff-Sol, Y. Presman, J. Barrio, R. Cai, T. Suter, G. Yang, S. J. Haigh, D. Brett, R. Jervis, M.-M. Titirici, I. E. L. Stephens, L. Elbaz, J. Power Sources **2024**, 609, 234683.
- [7] a) J. Bai, T. Zhao, M. Xu, B. Mei, L. Yang, Z. Shi, S. Zhu, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, M. Xiao, C. Liu, W. Xing, Nat. Commun. **2024**, 15, 4219; b) Q. Luo, K. Wang, Q. Zhang, W. Ding, R. Wang, L. Li, S. Peng, D. Ji, X. Qin, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **2025**, 64, e202413369; c) X.-R. Wang, J.-Y. Liu, Z.-W. Liu, W.-C. Wang, J. Luo, X.-P. Han, X.-W. Du, S.-Z. Qiao, J. Yang, Adv. Mater. **2018**, 30, 1800005.
- [8] Q. Li, Q. Zhao, A. Pedersen, M. Zhang, Z. Lin, Y. Xu, P. L. Cullen, A. Sapelkin, D. di Tommaso, M.-M. Titirici, C. R. Jones, J. Mater. Chem. A **2024**, 12, 28074–28084.
- [9] a) H. Yang, S. Gao, D. Rao, X. Yan, Energy Storage Mater. **2022**, 46, 553– 562; b) H. Li, G. Yan, H. Zhao, P. C. Howlett, X. Wang, J. Fang, Adv. Mater. **2024**, 36, 2311272.
- [10] T. H. Wan, M. Saccoccio, C. Chen, F. Ciucci, Electrochim. Acta **2015**, 184, 483–499.

Manuscript received: December 29, 2024 Revised manuscript received: February 10, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: February 11, 2025 Version of record online: March 5, 2025