---
source: Huang 等 - 2019 - Cobalt‐Embedded N‐Doped Carbon Arrays Derived In Situ as Trifunctional Catalyst Toward Hydrogen and.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 16.639s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:56:32.320426Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/celc.201901106

# Cobalt-Embedded N-Doped Carbon Arrays Derived In Situ as Trifunctional Catalyst Toward Hydrogen and Oxygen **Evolution, and Oxygen Reduction**

Niu Huang, [a] Liu Yang, [a] Mingyi Zhang, [b] Shufang Yan, [a] Yuyue Ding, [a] Panpan Sun, [a] and Xiaohua Sun\*[a]

The carbons containing metals coordinated with nitrogen are emerging as the most promising catalysts toward various heterogeneous catalyses. In this paper, such a carbon catalyst is prepared through a chemical vapor deposition (CVD)-supported precursor pyrolysis. Compared with the direct pyrolysis of polypyrrole@cobalt salt precursor, the incorporation of dicyanodiamide as the CVD source facilitates the diversification and hierarchization of carbon morphology, the reduction of Co particle size, and the increase of the proportion of interfacial Co-N-C and pyridinic-N. The catalyst is composed of in-situgrown multiple-morphology carbons (MMCs) with metallic Co particles embedded, where the MMCs are a combination of nano-particles, -rods, and -wires, all comprised by small Ndoped carbon nanoflakes. Owing to the combined modulation on morphology configurations and defect states, the Co/MMCs catalyst demonstrates excellent activities toward hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). A half-wave potential of 0.84 V and low overpotentials of 86 and 180 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> current density for HER and OER are achieved, respectively. Additionally, the catalyst also demonstrates favorable prospects for large-scale applications in overall water splitting and Zn-air battery.

#### 1. Introduction

To face the increasing exhaustion of conventional fuels and the growing demand on environmental protection, extensive efforts worldwide have been devoted to developing clean energies and recyclable conversion and storage technologies, including water splitting systems, [1] fuel cells, [2] and metal-air batteries. [3] Hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) are of great importance to these clean energy-conversion systems. Platinum-based catalysts are well known as the benchmark catalysts for HER and ORR, whereas ruthenium- and iridium-based oxides are currently identified as the most excellent catalysts in catalyzing OER. [4-6] However, the natural scarcity and high cost of these noble metal catalysts impede their large-scale commercialization.

[a] Dr. N. Huang, L. Yang, S. Yan, Y. Ding, Dr. P. Sun, Prof. X. Sun College of Materials and Chemical Engineering,

Hubei Provincial Collaborative Innovation Center for New Energy Microgrid, Collaborative Innovation Center for Energy Equipment of Three Gorges

Key Laboratory of Inorganic Nonmetallic Crystalline and Energy Conversion

China Three Gorges University, Yichang 443002, China E-mail: mksxh@163.com

[b] Dr. M. Zhang

Key Laboratory for Photonic and Electronic Bandgap Materials, Ministry of Education.

School of Physics and Electronic Engineering, Harbin Normal University, Harbin 150025, China

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201901106

Recently, various non-noble transitional metal (Fe, Co, Ni, Mo, etc.)-based catalysts have been massively explored as potential substitutes owing to their promising electrocatalytic activities.[7-13] To advance catalytic performances, as one common strategy, extensive efforts are devoted to downsizing the catalysts to nanoscale in order to expose more active sites.[14-16] However, it remains a noteworthy challenge because the tiny transitional metal-based catalysts possessing high surface free energy intend to migrate and aggregate to grow up.[17,18] To break the deadlock, carbon materials have been widely utilized as supporters to coordinate single transitional metal atoms, or anchor (or enwrap) transitional metal nanoparticles, [19] transitional metal alloys, [20] transitional metal compounds, [21] etc. [22-24] Carbon materials possess a string of merits, including high electrical conductivity, anticorrosion ability, diversified morphologies, and doping accessibility (e.g. heteroatom-doped carbons).<sup>[25]</sup> Apart from as supporting materials to stabilize transitional metal-based catalysts, doped heteroatoms (e.g. N atoms) can modify the electronic structure of the adjacent carbon atoms by breaking their electroneutrality. [26] For N-doped carbons, the C atoms adjacent to N dopants (pyridinic, graphitic, etc.) exhibit promoted active toward HER,[27,28] OER and ORR.[29,30] More importantly, interfacial Co-N-C coupling bonds forming at the interfaces between Cobased nanoparticles (including Co metal, Co-based alloys and compounds) and N-doped carbon supporters are widely recognized as remarkable electrocatalytically active centers via modulating electronic distribution, lowering kinetic energy barriers for favorably adsorbing intermediates, thus granting striking electrocatalytic performances toward HER,[31-33] ORR[34] and OER.[35]

Another crucial ingredient for the supporting carbons is the specific surface area, porous structure and combination status with substrates, which entirety determines the transport of electrons, reactants and products and the accessible area of active sites.[40] Although various high-surface-area and porousstructured supporting carbons have been fabricated to elevate the catalytic performances of these transitional metal-based catalysts,[31] in-situ grown (or derived) carbons are rarely constructed.[36] Generally, working electrodes are obtained by synthesizing catalysts and then dispersing them on **c**onducting substrates. However, the electronical contact between catalysts and substrates is commonly poor because polymeric binders are usually inactive and insulating.[37] Meanwhile, varying degrees of structural damage of the porous carbons will inevitably occur in the paste blending and dispersing procedures, thus lowering the accessibility of active sites and hampering the mass diffusion in the electrodes.[38] Banking on the aforementioned consideration, we are stimulated to excavate a facile synthetic method that can sponsor an in-situ growth of desirably hierarchical-porous-structured N-doped carbon, and simultaneously support metallic Co nanoparticles to be effectively enwrapped by N-doped carbon matrix (forming interfacial Co N C), envisioning a combination of the superiorities of morphology optimization and defect regulation.

Herein, a composite composed of metallic cobalt (Co) nanoparticles and multiple-morphology carbons (MMCs) is prepared via a CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis strategy. In particular, the porous MMCs comprised by small nitrogen (N) doped carbon nanoflakes are a combination of nano-particles, -rods and -wires, which are in-situ grown on carbon fiber paper (CFP) substrate with a compact packing, thus representing hierarchically porous structure with high surface area. Furthermore, there are abundant varied active centers including C atoms adjacent to the N-dopants, and Co N C bonds formed by electron coupling between encapsulated metallic Co core and N-doped carbon shell. The Co/MMCs hybrid demonstrates excellent electrocatalytic properties toward HER, OER, and ORR, simultaneously, and exhibits favorable prospects for large-scale applications in overall water splitting and Zn-air battery. The CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis could be as a novel methodology to simultaneously modulate the morphology and defect features of the precursor-pyrolysis-derived products for obtaining high-performance electrocatalysts.

## **Experimental Section**

#### **Synthesis of Co/MMCs**

As illustrated in Figure 1a, Co/MMCs was synthesized via a facile CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis approach. Firstly, polypyrrole (PPy) nanowires were evenly electrodeposited on the carbon fibers of the CFP substrate, according to a literature procedure.[39] Secondly, Co salt was coated on the surface of PPy nanowires by simply immersing in CoCl2 solution, forming a polypyrrole@cobalt salt (PPy@Co-Cl) precursor. Subsequently, a CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis process is performed at 800°C, where dicyanamide (DCA) was utilized as a solid source of the CVD. The detailed fabrication processes for the Co/MMCs and its counterparts are available in the Supporting Information.

#### **Material Characterization**

The structures and morphologies of samples were characterized by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) carried out with a Rigaku Ultima IV diffractometer. The microstructures and compositions of samples were analyzed by field-emission SEM (FESEM, Zeiss SIGMA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM, FEI JEOL-2100F), XPS (XPS, Escalab 250Xi X-ray, thermos scientific) and Raman spectroscopy obtained using a laser excitation wavelength 532 nm using a Labram HR Evolution Raman spectrometer (HORIBA France).

#### **Electrochemical Measurements**

Almost all tests were conducted on a CHI760e electrochemical workstation by using a conventional three-electrode system. The carbon fiber paper loaded samples were directly used as the working electrodes, and the Hg/HgO electrode and carbon rod were respectively used as the reference electrode and the counter electrode. All electrochemical tests were performed at room temperature. All linear-sweep voltammetry (LSV) tests were corrected by *iR* compensation (95%), except for special illustration, and all working potentials were calibrated by reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). All LSV measurement was performed at 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> in 1 M KOH, except for special illustration. For water splitting, symmetrical two-electrode cells were adopted, such as Co/MMCs// Co/MMCs configuration. Measurements for Zn-air batteries were carried out at room temperature on the CHI760e electrochemical workstation and a LAND CT2001 A multi-channel battery testing system.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Morphology and Defect Features of Co/MMCs and its Counterparts**

To illustrate the role of DCA, two counterparts of Co/MMCs were prepared. If PPy nanowires are carbonized directly, pure carbon nanowires (CNWs) spun on CFP substrate will be obtained, as shown in Figure S1. If the PPy@Co-Cl precursor is pyrolyzed directly, CNWs mixed with Co particles (Co/CNWs) will be obtained, where Co particles have a large size of about 300–500 nm (Figure S2), scattering amongst CNWs. However, if DCA is introduced to support the pyrolysis and derivation of the PPy@Co-Cl, the prepared Co/MMCs exhibits an obviously modulated morphology (Figure S3 and Figure 1b). Different from Co/CNWs, the surface of CFP is covered by fluffy carbons, which possess multiple morphologies, including nanoparticles, nanorods and nanowires. Additionally, the carbons are almost grown outward from CFP substrate, which is fundamentally different from CNWs and Co/CNWs, where the PPy-derived carbons almost remain the same orientation with PPy nanowires, parallel spun on CFP substrate. The high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) images clearly demonstrate that nanorods (NR, Figure 1c), nanowires (including hollow-NWs shown in Figure 1d and NWs shown in Figure 1f) and nanoparticles (NP, Figure 1i) are comprised by

**Figure 1.** (a) The fabrication processes and schematic structure for Co/MMCs. (b) SEM image of Co/MMCs. HRTEM images of components of Co/MMCs with different morphologies: (c) nanorod, (d) hollow nanowire, (f) nanowire, and (i) nanoparticle. (e) The partially enlarged image of the surface area of a Co metal nanoparticle shown in (d), (g) partially enlarged image of (f) to reveal the interface between the Co metal particle and carbon matrix. (h) SAED of the metal particle in (e). (j) dark-field high-resolution TEM images of the nanoparticle shown in (i). The red bar represents to 1 μm, green bar to100 nm, and blue bar to 50 nm.

small nanoflakes with the size of around 50 nm. Figure 1e reveals that the particle grown at the top of the hollow-NW is entrapped by a highly graphitized carbon shell (~4 nm), which exhibits an average lattice spacing of 0.33 nm, corresponding to the (002) planes of 2H graphite (PDF#41-1487). The core particle corresponds to a Co metal nanoparticle as revealed by the fast Fourier transform (FFT) inserted. Figure 1f shows another nanowire-like carbon matrix, where the nanowires are evidently comprised by small nanoflakes. Figure 1g displays the interface between the Co metal particle and carbon matrix revealed. The Co metal particle is also wrapped by graphitic carbon layers, where the carbon shell is fairly thin with the thickness of about 1–2 nm. Figure 1h shows the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) image of the Co metal particle in Figure 1e, which corresponds to a single cubic Co metal crystal (PDF#15-0806). Figure 1i shows the dark-field HRTEM image of Figure 1j. The small bright white area (marked by cycles) can be assigned to metallic Co particles with the size of about 2~30 nm, illuminating Co species are effectively downsized. The above characterizations corroborate the successful in-situ synthesis of a carbon material via the CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis approach, exhibiting highly dispersed and downsized Co species supported by multiple-morphology carbons with hierarchical porosity.

XRD, XPS and Raman measurements were further carried out to achieve an insight into the elemental phase, composition and chemical states. Figure 2a shows the XRD patterns of the Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs, CNWs and CFP, suggesting the assynthesized Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs catalysts contain cubic Co metal (PDF#15-0806) and graphitic carbon (PDF#41-1487). The XRD patterns also reveals that there are no other crystal diffraction peaks, such as cobalt carbides, nitrides and oxides. Figure 2b shows the Raman spectra of Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs. The G-band located at 1586 cm <sup>1</sup> corresponds to the E2g mode vibration of graphitic carbon, whereas the D-band at 1347 cm <sup>1</sup> is associated with the defect mode.[40–43] The ratio of ID/IG of Co/ MMCs is 1.06, whereas which is 1.00 for Co/CNWs. As demonstrated in energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) images (Figure S4), the N element content is 5.44% for Co/ MMCs, higher than that (5.00%) of Co/CNWs. The defect of sp2 carbon is probably caused by N doping, thus the defect degree of the carbon component in Co/MMCs is elevated. The other Raman peak located around 673~677 cm <sup>1</sup> can be ascribed to the vibrational signals from Co species.[40,42]

Figure 2c shows the XPS survey spectra of Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs, where high amounts of Co, N and O elements are emerged. Figure 2d represents the Co 2p high-resolution spectra of Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs. Besides the shakeup satellite

**Figure 2.** (a) XRD patterns of Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs, and CNWs. (b) Raman spectra and (c-f) XPS spectra of Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs.

peaks, the spectra both can be divided into three pair peaks. The first pair located at low binding energies (778.66/793.9 eV) corresponds to 2p3/2/2p1/2 of metallic Co phase for Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs.[44] which is accordance with XRD result. The second doublet located at middle binding energies belongs to Co O phase (780.99/796.49 eV),[45] probably produced by the oxidation of the surface of the Co particle. The third pair located at high binding energies can be assigned to Co N bond (783.08/798.92 eV).[44–47] Obviously, the intensity of Co N peak of Co/MMCs is much higher than that of Co/CNWs. Figure 2e demonstrates the deconvoluted C 1speaks of Co/MMCs and Co/ CNWs. The peaks corresponding to graphitic sp<sup>2</sup> carbon phase (C C/C=C) are calibrated to 284.8 eV for the two samples. Other peaks with higher binding energy assign consecutively to C N, C O and C C=O. The C N peak locates at 285.73 eV for Co/ MMCs, whereas a lower binding energy (285.44 eV) for Co/ CNWs. The positive shift can be rationalized by the stronger electron-withdrawing effect of Co atoms coordinated with the nitrogen atoms.[48] The deconvoluted N 1s peaks (Figure 2f) of Co/MMCs reveal subpeaks of nitrogen species including pyridinic N (398.7 eV), Co N (399.52 eV), pyrrolic N (400.98 eV), graphitic N (402.16 eV) and oxidized N (403.67 eV). It is claimed that as the pyridinic N bound to Co atom with the configuration of atomic Co Nx C or interfacial Co N C, ~1 eV will upshift from pristine pyridinic N.[49–51] For comparing, the N 1s speaks of Co/CNWs is also deconvoluted and displayed in Figure 2f, and the percentages of different nitrogen species in Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs are summarized and shown in Table S1. Because it becomes easier for the highly dispersed and downsized Co species to evaporate and carry out by Ar flow, the Co element content is dropped to 3.58 at% for Co/MMCs from 4.28 at% for Co/CNWs (Figure S4). However, the Co N content of Co/MMCs is calculated to be 0.94 at% (5.44 at%\*17.3%) which is far superior to that of Co/CNWs (0.26 at%). In addition, the intensity and percentage of pyridinic N in Co/MMCs are also much higher than those in Co/CNWs. Raman and XPS results clearly suggest that the defect state the as-obtained carbon sample (Co/MMCs) is effectively modulate via the CVDsupported precursor pyrolysis approach, with much promoted percentages of pyridinic N and Co N.

According to the above results, a probable morphology and defect regulation mechanism is suggested for the CVDsupported precursor pyrolysis approach. In the CVD process, DCA (C2H4N4) will be evolved gradually, accompanying with the release of N H and C N fragments.[52,53] Among them, C N fragments serve as carbon sources for carbon matrix growth and as nitrogen sources for nitrogen-doping reactions, and chemical active N H fragments can facilitate the dispersion of Co species and N-doping reactions.[54,55] Owing to the anisotropic characteristic, new-generated N-doped carbons are tend to form as 2D nanoflakes. Then, to low the surface energy, these small nanoflakes are accumulated to bigger particles with multiply morphologies, such as NP, NW and NR. In addition, in the CVD process, the downsized Co species can play as catalytic centers to promote the growth of surrounding carbons, thus Co species could be effectively enwrapped by carbons to form Co metal contained NWs and NRs or NPs, as revealed in TEM images. Moreover, since the N content in these fragments is much higher than that of PPy ((C4NH3)*n*), the N content in Co/ MMCs could be associatively elevated. Furthermore, if the PPy@Co-Cl precursor is directly pyrolyzed, it is unfavorable to form pyridinic N (six-membered ring) considering PPy comprises N-containing five-membered ring. In contrast, the configuration of heterocyclic rings of PPy could be modulated by the released N H and C N fragments in the CVD process, thus the amount of pyridinic N could be generated more in Co/

**Figure 3.** (a) Polarization curves, (b) corresponding Tafel plots, (c) plots of capacitive currents as a function of the scan rate, and (d) electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) of Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs, CNWs, and CFP substrate, measured at 1.6 V vs RHE.

MMCs. Simultaneously, thanks to the dispersion of Co species and improvement of N content, the coordination between Co species and N dopants could be enhanced, and thus the amount of Co N is increased largely. Along with varied defects including N-doping and interfacial Co N C coupling centers, and advanced in-situ morphology configuration, the Co/MMCs catalyst is suggested to be a promising candidate for trifunctional HER/OER/ORR electrocatalysis, water splitting and Zn-air batteries.

#### **2.2. OER, ORR. and HER Performances of Co/MMCs and its Counterparts**

Figure 3a shows the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs, CNWs, and CFP in 1 M KOH solution for electrochemical OER. As expected, Co/MMCs represents significantly improved electrocatalytic activity toward OER in comparison with its counterparts (Co/CNWs and CNWs), and pure CFP substrate shows negligible catalytic property toward OER. Only 1.41 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) potential is required to achieve 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> electrocatalytic current density for Co/MMCs. The overpotential corresponding to 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> current density is 180, 357, 381, and 479 mV for Co/MMCs, Co/ CNWs, CNWs, and CFP, respectively. The overpotential of current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> is 392, 446, 493 and 603 mV in turn for the above four catalysts. Figure 3b shows the corresponding Tafel plots, where Co/MMCs as well demonstrates the smallest slope of 54 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , indicating a higher OER kinetics, whereas the slope is 112, 110, and 121 mVdec <sup>1</sup> in turn for the other three catalysts. Figure S7 shows the CV curves of Co/MMCs and its counterparts measured at different scanning rates in the non-Faraday current region located between OER and ORR. The corresponding plots of capacitive currents as a function of the scan rate of all catalysts and the calculated electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) are exhibited in Figure 3c. *C*dl is a useful tool to estimate electrochemically active surface area (ECSA). As shown in Figure 3c, after the incorporation of Co species in carbons, the *C*dl values of Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs are extremely higher than those of CNWs and CFP. The result preliminarily reveals Co metal nanoparticles or Co-based species play a paramount role in catalyzing OER and ORR. Furthermore, the *C*dl value of Co/MMCs (262 mF cm <sup>1</sup> ) is superior to that of Co/CNWs (235 mFcm <sup>1</sup> ), suggesting the former hybrid possesses bigger ECSA. Such elevated ECSA is partly contributed by the superior specific surface area, porous feature and almost vertically grown on CFP substrate, which facilitates electrodes to expose more electrocatalytically active sites, and promotes mass transport in electrodes. As a result, Co/MMCs could achieve desirable electrocatalytic activities. Figure 3d shows the electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) of Co/MMCs and its counterparts, where Co/MMCs also demonstrates the smallest interface charge transfer resistance (*R*ct, of about 2.3 Ω) for OER, signifying the extremely high kinetic activity.

**Figure 4.** (a) Polarization curves measured with 1600 rpm rotation rate for Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs, CNWs, and CFP substrate, (b) corresponding Tafel slopes of Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs and CNWs, (c) electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) of Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs, CNWs, and CFP substrate, measured at 0.6 V vs. RHE. (d) RDE voltammograms of [P] Co/MMCs, measured at different rotation rates in 0.1 M KOH. (e) OER-ORR polarization curves for Co/MMCs without posttreatments, Co/MMCs (A) treated by nitric acid, and Co/MMCs (SCN ) treated by KSCN, (f) OER-ORR polarization curves for Co/CNWs without and with acid or KSCN treatment.

| Sample  | OER<br>η10[a] (mV) | η100[b] (mV) | Tafel slope (mVdec 1<br>) | Comp. R (Ω) | ORR<br>E1/2 (V) | Tafel slope (mdec 1<br>) | Comp. R (Ω) | Cdl (mF cm 1<br>) | Overall<br>ΔE[c] (V) |
|---------|--------------------|--------------|---------------------------|-------------|-----------------|--------------------------|-------------|-------------------|----------------------|
| Co/MMCs | 180                | 392          | 58                        | 2.02        | 0.84            | 33                       | 8.33        | 262               | 0.57                 |
| Co/CNWs | 358                | 446          | 112                       | 1.91        | 0.83            | 81                       | 14.7        | 235               | 0.76                 |
| CNWs    | 381                | 493          | 110                       | 2.11        | 0.78            | 112                      | 7.41        | 14                | 0.84                 |
| CFPs    | 479                | 603          | 121                       | 1.84        | 0.68            | –                        | 9.63        | 0.8               | 1.03                 |

Co/MMCs and its counterparts are also directly used as the working electrodes for the measurements toward ORR. Figure 4a displays the OER-ORR LSV polarization curves collected by scanning from OER to ORR potential range with 1600 rpm rotation rate. In comparison with CFP, CNWs and Co/CNWs, Co/ MMCs shows obviously enlarged current density at the whole operating potential window. Co/MMCs shows an excellent ORR performance with onset potential of 1 V, half-wave potential (*E*1/ 2) of 0.84 V, and obviously enlarged diffusion-limited current density (*J*lim) about 16 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at 0.5 V vs RHE. It is worth to mention that the potential corresponding to 3 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (*E*3) of the ORR of the in-situ grown Co/MMCs is high as 0.88 V vs RHE. Simultaneously, Co/MMCs possesses the smallest Tafel slope of 33 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , compared with Pt/C (69 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), CNWs (112 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) and Co/CNWs (81 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), as shown in Figure 4b and Table 1. Figure 4c shows the EIS of Co/MMCs and its counterparts, where Co/MMCs demonstrates the smallest *R*ct for ORR, as well suggesting the best catalytic activity. Furthermore, the overall OER/ORR bifunctional activity of catalyst is evaluated by Δ*E*, which equals *E*j<sup>=</sup>10–*E*1/2, where *E*j=<sup>10</sup> is the OER potential corresponding to the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and the Δ*E*

values of Co/MMCs and its counterparts are displayed in Table 1. Δ*E* is calculated to be 0.57 V for Co/MMCs, which is considerably smaller than those of CFP (ignorable OER/ORR performance), Pt/C and RuO2 (0.76 V), CNWs (0.84 V) and Co/ CNWs (0.76 V). The half-wave potential of the ORR of the Pt/C is 0.88 V vs RHE, and the OER potential corresponding to the current densities of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> of the RuO2 is 1.64 V vs RHE in Figure 4a. The above key parameters signify that Co/MMCs exerts excellent OER/ORR electrocatalytic activity which surpasses the vast majority of recently reported bifunctional OER/ ORR electrocatalysts, such as in-situ grown Co4N/CNWs with a ΔE value of 0.74 V and *J*lim of 15 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , [39] in-situ grown FeNi@NCNTs with a ΔE value of 0.70 V and *J*lim of 4.7 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , [56] powder based atomic Co N*<sup>x</sup>* C in hierarchical graphene with a Δ*E* value of 0.95 V and *J*lim of 4.75 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , [57] and powder based Co2P/CoN-in-NCNTs with a Δ*E* value of 0.80 V and *J*lim of 5.01 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [58] Additionally, the OER/ORR performance of Co/MMCs was optimized by regulating the temperature of the final CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis process and different Co contents, as revealed in Supporting

Information (SEMs: Figure S5 and S6, OER/ORR/HER electrocatalytic performances: Figure S9 and Figure S10).

The ORR activity of [P] Co/MMCs catalyst was also investigated by CV, as demonstrated in Figure S8. When the electrolyte is saturated by O2, a cathodic O2 reduction peak is noticeably represented at ~0.83 V vs RHE, whereas no obvious reduction peak emerging in the electrolyte saturated by N2, demonstrating the excellent ORR performance. Figure 4d shows the LSV curves of [P] Co/MMCs at different rotation rates. Accordingly, Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots were depicted and inserted in Figure 4d, which display the almost same linearity for the applied potential of 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 V vs RHE. The similar linearity indicates the first-order reaction kinetics with regard to the concentration of dissolved O2 and similar *n* at various potential. The *n* is calculated to be 3.99, indicating a nearly 4 electron ORR pathways. In addition, fuel crossover effect is another vital factor for the large-scale applications of ORR catalysts.[59] A common fuel crossover effect between byproduct methanol (CH3OH) and ORR catalysts could be simulated by comparing the electrocatalytic abilities of catalysts in O2-saturated 1 M KOH and 1 M KOH+0.5 M methanol solutions. As shown in Figure S11, there is a slightly fluctuation in the current density after CH3OH injection, revealing that Co/ MMCs has desirable tolerance to methanol crossover.

To get insight into what species take the primary role in determining the OER/ORR electrocatalytic activity of the catalysts, the SCN poisoning tests (SCN ) and acid etching tests (A) were performed for Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs. As demonstrated in Figure 4e, Co/MMCs (A) exhibits slightly better activity with more positive onset potential and *E*1/2, larger *J*lim, and improved OER performance. The slight improvement could be attributed to gradual etching of a small number of Co particles, thus more ORR and OER active sites are exposed. It is worth mentioning that the amounts of Co leaching from Co/ MMCs are negligible since there is no color change for the 6 M HNO3 solution after immersing the catalyst electrode for 12 h at 70°C. These results suggest that there are minute quantities of electrolyte-exposed metallic Co particles in pristine Co/MMCs, and they are almost inactive toward ORR and OER; if they are dissolved, the OER/ORR electrocatalytic activity of the catalyst will be promoted rather than depressed. In addition, these results indicate the Co N C coupling centers in Co/MMCs are highly stable during acid treatment. Co N C has been identified as one of the most efficient active sites for catalyzing both ORR and OER,[60–63] even HER[36] because the strong electronwithdrawing effect of Co atoms can decrease the electron density of adjacent C atoms, which is expected to facilitate the adsorption/desorption of HER/ORR/OER intermediates and thus promote reaction kinetics. If blocked, the performance of Co N C will be depressed. The SCN poisoning test was also carried out for Co/MMCs to assess the electrocatalytic effect of Co N C coupling centers on the ORR and OER performances, since SCN can coordinate with transitional metal sites strongly and thus block metal-centered catalytic sites. As shown in Figure 4e, the catalyst displays a significant drop in activity with sharply decreased *J*lim and obviously enlarged OER overpotential after SCN treatment. This observation validates that the Co N C coupling centers are vitally active sites for both ORR and OER; if these sites is blocked by SCN ions, the performances will drop accordingly. Figure 4f represents the OER-ORR LSV curves of Co/CNWs before and after treatment with acid and KSCN, respectively. In contrast with Co/MMCs, the color of the 6 M HNO3 solution changed to baby pink after immersing the Co/CNWs electrode for 12 h at 70°C, as revealed in Figure S12. The phenomenon suggests that there are substantial electrolyte-exposed metallic Co particles in pristine Co/ CNWs. When these particles are etched, the electron interaction between Co species and N-doped carbon matrix will be destroyed accordingly. As a result, the ORR and OER performances of Co/CNWs (A) both are degraded (in Figure 4f). Similarly, Co/CNWs (SCN ) shows significant drop in electroactivities toward ORR and OER, which as well validates that Co N is critical active for OER and ORR. It noteworthy that even after poisoning by SCN , Co/MMCs (SCN ) still demonstrates a favorable performance with a small Δ*E* of 0.65 V and a large *J*lim of about 8.9 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . However, Co/CNWs (SCN ) displays severely damaged activity with almost disappeared *E*1/2 for ORR, whose Δ*E* is estimated to be 0.85 V by using *E*j<sup>=</sup>10–*E*3, where *E*<sup>3</sup> is the ORR potential corresponding to the current density of 3 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . As reported, pyridinic N[64,65] and graphitic N[66–68] can promote the electrical conductivity and surface wettability of carbon materials, thus working as active species for OER and ORR. According to the deconvolution results of N 1s, the percentage of graphitic N is 19.8% for Co/CNWs, higher than that of Co/MMCs (13.5%), which means graphitic N could not be as the main active N species toward OER and ORR here. As mentioned above, owing to the introduction of DCA in the pyrolysis process, the N element content is increased to 5.44 at% for Co/MMCs from 5.00% for Co/CNWs, meanwhile the percentage of pyridinic N in all N species is evidently promoted to 34% for Co/MMCs from 18.2% for Co/CNWs. From the above analysis, it is reasonable to conclude that Co N and pyridinic N are of cardinal active centers toward OER and ORR.

To evaluate whether or not Co/MMCs possesses desirable HER electroactivity, the LSV polarization curves of Co/MMCs, CNWs, Co/CNWs and Pt/C are represented in Figure 5a, measured in 1 M KOH solution and within a potential window of 0.1~-0.5 V vs RHE. As demonstrated in Figure 5a, Co/MMCs represents significantly promoted performances compared with Co/CNWs, and CNWs. Furthermore, it represents similar performance to that of Pt/C. The overpotentials corresponding to the current densities of 10 and 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> are 63 and 117 mV, 86 and 168 mV, 177 and 301 mV, and 338 and 454 mV for Pt/C, Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs and CNWs, respectively. Figure 5b shows the Tafel plots of these electrodes. As expected, the Co/MMCs electrocatalyst exhibits the desirable electrocatalytic activity with the Tafel plots of 77.7 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , much smaller than those values of Co/MMCs and Co/CNWs, and approaching to that value (43 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) of Pt/C. However, Co/MMCs represents the smallest slope of 78 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , in contrast the slope is 112, and 125 mVdec <sup>1</sup> for Co/CNWs, and CNWs, respectively, suggesting more fast kinetics for the HER on Co/MMCs. To elucidate the superior HER activity of Co/MMCs, EIS was performed at 0.2 V vs RHE. As displayed in Figure 5c, the substantial smaller

**Figure 5.** (a) Polarization curves, (b) corresponding Tafel plots, (c) electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) measured at 0.2 V vs RHE, and (d) plots of capacitive currents as a function of the scan rate measured at the non-Faraday current region of HER of Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs and CNWs. (e) LSV curves of overall water splitting of these catalysts. (f) Long-term durability test at 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> of Co/MMCs for overall water splitting in 1.0 M KOH solution, without *iR* correction, and the overall water splitting LSV curves before and after the durability test are inserted.

| Sample  | HER<br>η10[a] (mV) | η100[b] (mV) | Tafel slope (mVdec 1<br>) | Cdl (mFcm 1<br>) | Comp. R (Ω) | Water splitting<br>Voltage10[c] (V) | Voltage100[d] (V) | Comp. R (Ω) |
|---------|--------------------|--------------|---------------------------|------------------|-------------|-------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------|
| Co/MMCs | 86                 | 168          | 78                        | 121              | 2.01        | 1.66                                | 1.83              | 4.11        |
| Co/CNWs | 177                | 301          | 112                       | 65               | 2.32        | 1.79                                | 1.95              | 3.84        |
| CNWs    | 338                | 454          | 125                       | 21               | 2.07        | 2.21                                | 2.21              | 3.89        |

semicircle clearly suggests a dumped *R*ct for Co/MMCs compared with Co/CNWs, and CNWs. Additionally, *C*dl was obtained (summarized in Table 2) via the scan-rate dependent CV measurements within a potential window of 0.03~0.07 V vs RHE, the CV curves are displayed in Figure S13. As revealed in Figure 5d and Figure S13, Co/MMCs exhibits a much larger value of *C*dl (121 mF cm <sup>2</sup> ), about 86% higher than that of Co/ CNWs, and almost five times the value of CNWs. The higher *C*dl implies the Co/MMCs contain more ECSA to achieve higher electrocatalytic current density. The improved HER performance could be also originated from the unique morphology structure and defect feature.

#### **2.3. Water Splitting and Zn-Air Battery Performance of Co/MMCs**

Encouraged by the outstanding OER and HER performances, Co/MMCs was utilized as both anodes and cathodes for overall water splitting in alkaline aqueous medium. As shown in Figure 5e, Co/MMCs possesses significantly improved performance toward water splitting in comparison with Co/CNWs and CNWs. The cell voltage needed to afford the current density of 10 and 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> is 1.66 and 1.83 V, 1.79 and 1.95 V, and 2.01 and 2.21 V for Co/MMCs, Co/CNWs and CNWs, respectively. Figure 5f shows the durability of Co/MMCs via measuring the *voltage*~*t* at a constant applied current density of 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , without deducting the *iR* voltage drop. The Co/MMCs hybrid exhibits a smooth line with a sustained cell voltage of ~1.91 V for 24 h. Furthermore, it is interest to observe that the performance of Co/MMCs becomes slightly better than its initial status, the voltage to support water splitting current density of 300 mAcm <sup>2</sup> is dropped by 57 mV, from 1.93 to 1.88 V. The slight improvement could be attributed to gradual etching of small amount of electrolyte-exposed metallic Co particles by KOH in the stability test, thus more active sites are exposed, which is similar with the acid etching test mentioned above.

Banking on the desirable OER/ORR catalytic activity and liquid battery performance presented in Figure S14, solid-state Zn-air batteries were fabricated using the Co/MMCs coated carbon cloths as the air-cathodes (catalyst loading: 1 mgcm <sup>2</sup> ), 0.1 mm Zn foil as the anode, and alkaline poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) gel as the electrolyte (Figure 6a, see details in the Supporting Information). To obtain better cell performance, a piece of ~2 mm-thick PVA gel was adopted as the electrolyte to assemble the solid-state Zn-battery, and its *V*~*j* polarization

**Figure 6.** (a) The schematic structure of a solid-state Zn-air battery. (b) *V*~*j* polarization curves of the solid-state Zn-air battery assembled by Co/MMCs on a piece of carbon cloth as the air cathode and a ~2 mm-thick PVA gel as the solid-state electrolyte. (c) The discharge power density of the solid-state cell. The picture of the cell is inserted in (b). (d) Galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling profiles of the cell with a current density of 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and a pulse cycling interval of 10 min per cycle for 14 h. (e) *V*~*j* polarization curves of a flexible Zn-air battery assembled by Co/MMCs on a piece of carbon cloth as the air cathode and a ~1 mm-thick polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) gel as the solid-state electrolyte. (f) The discharge power density of the flexible cell. (g) The pictures of the flexible cell under bending and the correspondingly galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling curves at 5.0 mAcm <sup>2</sup>

curves are displayed in Figure 6b. The open circuit voltage is measured to be~1.33 V (Figure 6b), and the discharge power density is calculated to be as high as 90 mWcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 6c) which outperforms recently reported solid-state Zn-air batteries, especially when compared with the batteries using the same PVA gel (Table S2). Figure 6d shows the cycling test for rechargeability at a current density of 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with 10 min for each cycle. It is noteworthy that the cell exhibits highly competitive discharge potential of ~1.19 V and an impressively low voltage gap of ~0.8 V (charge potential of 1.99 V), achieving a high round-trip energy efficiency of 60%. As revealed in the Table S2, these values are also comparable with many excellent solid-state rechargeable Zn-batteries. To obtain a flexible Zn-air battery, a relatively thinner PVA gel with the thickness of ~1 mm was utilized to assemble the solid-state and bendable Zn-air battery. The flexible cell demonstrates the same open circuit voltage of 1.33 V (Figure 6e) with a slightly increased voltage gap compared to the former solid-state battery. The discharge power density is calculated to be 54 mWcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 6f). Moreover, the flexible solid Zn-air battery can be cycling charged/discharged for a long time, even when bended to different angles (Figure 6g). The discharge

potential achieves an enhancement from ~1.05 V for the flat (fully released) state to ~1.13 V for the curving states. This phenomenon stems from the increased contact areas between active materials and the PVA gel electrolyte.[69] These results suggest that the Co/MMCs catalyst possesses bright prospect in the rechargeable and flexible solid Zn-air batteries and wearable devices. The impressive Zn-air battery performances based on Co/MMCs are originated from its unique morphology structure and defect feature.

## **3. Conclusions**

A transitional metal contained carbon catalyst was in-situ synthesized on CFP substrate via a CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis approach, which is composed of multiple-morphology carbons (MMCs) with cobalt (Co)metal nanoparticles embedded in. The carbons are a combination of small nanoflakes based nano-particles, -rods and -wires, by virtue of which the catalyst renders hierarchically porous structure to facilitate the mass transport and to maximize the electrocatalytic accessibility. It is revealed that the incorporation of dicyandiamide (DCA) as the solid source of CVD promotes the dispersion of Co species, consequently forming abundant Co N active centers, and modulates the N-doping model with increased pyridinic N ratio. The Co/MMCs hybrid demonstrates excellent electrocatalytic properties toward HER, OER, and ORR, simultaneously. The catalyst represents low overpotentials of 86 and 180 mV to achieve 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> current density for HER and OER in 1.0 M KOH respectively, and represents a large value of E1/2 of 0.84 V with a superb limit current density of about 15 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Owing to the desirable trifunctional performance, the catalyst also displays favorable prospects for large-scale applications in overall water splitting and Zn-air battery with desirable stability. Only ~1.90 V is required for the two-electrode configuration using Co/MMCs as both anode and cathode to support 300 mAcm <sup>2</sup> water splitting current density in alkaline solution. Meanwhile, the Zn-air batteries based on the Co/MMCs catalyst all exhibit standout performances with relatively large discharge power densities, discharge potentials, and high round-trip energy efficiencies. The CVD-supported precursor pyrolysis illuminates a new strategy to combined modify the morphology and defect features or effective trifunctional electrocatalysts.

## *Acknowledgements*

*This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51602175 and 51602176), the 111 Project of Hubei Province (2018-19-1), the Foundation of Key Laboratory of new building energy and building efficiency, Guangxi Province, China (Grant No. 15-J-22-2).*

## *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** carbon nanoflakes **·** metallic cobalt **·** cobaltnitrogen-carbon **·** N-doped carbon **·** trifunctional electrocatalyst

- [1] N. Han, K. R. Yang, Z. Lu, Y. Li, W. Xu, T. Gao, Z. Cai, Y. Zhang, V. S. Batista, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 924.
- [2] S. McIntosh, R. J. Gorte, *Chem. Rev.* **2004**, *104*, [4845–4866.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr020725g)
- [3] H. F. Wang, C. Tang, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, [1803329](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201803329).
- [4] M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. Zhang, L. Wang, J.-J. Zou, Z. L. Wang, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.05.022) Energy* **2017**, *37*, [136–157](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.05.022).
- [5] D. U. Lee, P. Xu, Z. P. Cano, A. G. Kashkooli, M. G. Park, Z. Chen, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA00173D) Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, [7107–7134](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA00173D).
- [6] B. Y. Guan, X. Y. Yu, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, [1703614.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201703614)
- [7] Z. Wang, H. Jin, T. Meng, K. Liao, W. Meng, J. Yang, D. He, Y. Xiong, S. Mu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, [1802596.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201802596)
- [8] C. Cao, D. D. Ma, Q. Xu, X. T. Wu, Q. L. Zhu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *29*, 1807418.
- [9] Y. Wu, F. Li, W. Chen, Q. Xiang, Y. Ma, H. Zhu, P. Tao, C. Song, W. Shang, T. Deng, J. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, [1803151](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201803151).
- [10] H. Zhang, L. Yu, T. Chen, W. Zhou, X. W. D. Lou, *Adv. Funct. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201807086)* **2018**, *28*, [1807086](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201807086).
- [11] L. An, Y. Li, M. Luo, J. Yin, Y. Q. Zhao, C. Xu, F. Cheng, Y. Yang, P. Xi, S. Guo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, [1703779.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201703779)
- [12] G. J. Sim, Z. X. Huang, Y. Wang, D. Kong, S. Huang, B. Liu, H. Y. Yang, *[FlatChem](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.flatc.2018.04.001)* **2018**, *9*, 8–14.
- [13] P. Sun, M. Zhang, C. Ai, Z. Wu, S. Lu, X. Zhang, X. Sun, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2016.04.002)* **2016**, *319*, [219–226.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2016.04.002)
- [14] N. Huang, R. Peng, Y. Ding, S. Yan, G. Li, P. Sun, X. Sun, X. Liu, H. Yu, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.04.007) Catal.* **2019**, *373*, [250–259](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.04.007).
- [15] V. Polshettiwar, R. S. Varma, *Green Chem.* **2010**, *12*, [743–754.](https://doi.org/10.1039/b921171c)
- [16] T.-P. Fellinger, W. Yang, M. Antonietti, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2010**, *133*, 206–209.
- [17] C. Zhang, J. Sha, H. Fei, M. Liu, S. Yazdi, J. Zhang, Q. Zhong, X. Zou, N. Zhao, H. Yu, Z. Jiang, E. Ringe, B. I. Yakobson, J. Dong, D. Chen, J. M. Tour, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, [6930–6941](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.7b02148).
- [18] P. Sun, F. Yao, X. Ban, N. Huang, X. Sun, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.05.138) Acta.* **2015**, *174*, [127–132](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.05.138).
- [19] Y. Wang, J. Li, Z. Wei, *[ChemElectroChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201701335)* **2018**, *5*, 1764–1774.
- [20] Y. Shi, Y. Zhou, D. R. Yang, W. X. Xu, C. Wang, F. B. Wang, J. J. Xu, X. H. Xia, H. Y. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [15479–15485.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b08881)
- [21] Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, Y. Zhu, Q. Cai, A. Vasileff, L. H. Li, Y. Han, Y. Chen, S. Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [3336–3339](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b13100).
- [22] F. Li, J. W. L. Zheng, Y. Zhao, N. Huang, P. Sun, L. Fang, L. Wang, X. Sun, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.02.048)* **2018**, *384*, 1–9.
- [23] J. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, L. Dai, *Nat. [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2015.48)* **2015**, *10*, 444–452.
- [24] M. Wu, G. Zhang, J. Qiao, N. Chen, W. Chen, S. Sun, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.04.031)* **2019**, *61*, [86–95.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.04.031)
- [25] K. Shen, X. Chen, J. Chen, Y. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, [5887–5903](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b01222).
- [26] D. K. Singh, R. N. Jenjeti, S. Sampath, M. Eswaramoorthy, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA11057F) Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, [6025–6031](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA11057F).
- [27] K. Zhang, Y. Zhao, D. Fu, Y. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, [5783–5788.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA06706A)
- [28] W. Zhou, T. Xiong, C. Shi, J. Zhou, K. Zhou, N. Zhu, L. Li, Z. Tang, S. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [8416–8420](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201602627).
- [29] S. K. Singh, V. Kashyap, N. Manna, S. N. Bhange, R. Soni, R. Boukherroub, S. Szunerits, S. Kurungot, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, [6700–6710.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b01983)
- [30] G.-L. Chai, K. Qiu, M. Qiao, M.-M. Titirici, C. Shang, Z. Guo, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE03446B) Sci.* **2017**, *10*, [1186–1195.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE03446B)
- [31] B. Liu, J. Cheng, H. Peng, Q. D. Chen, X. Cui, D. Shen, W. Zhang, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA09800J) Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, [775–782.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA09800J)
- [32] K. Qu, Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, X. Zhang, S. Dai, S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201602068) Mater.* **2017**, *7*, [1602068](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201602068).
- [33] J. Yu, W. Zhou, T. Xiong, A. Wang, S. Chen, B. Chu, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1462-1) Res.* **2017**, *10*, [2599–2609.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1462-1)
- [34] G. Fu, Z. Cui, Y. Chen, Y. Li, Y. Tang, J. B. Goodenough, *Adv. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201601172) Mater.* **2017**, *7*, [1601172.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201601172)
- [35] T. Sun, S. Zhao, W. Chen, D. Zhai, J. Dong, Y. Wang, S. Zhang, A. Han, L. Gu, R. Yu, X. Wen, H. Ren, L. Xu, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *[Proc.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1813605115) Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2018**, *115*, [12692–12697.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1813605115)
- [36] X. Chen, B. Liu, C. Zhong, Z. Liu, J. Liu, L. Ma, Y. Deng, X. Han, T. Wu, W. Hu, J. Lu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, [1700779.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201700779)
- [37] N. K. Chaudhari, H. Jin, B. Kim, K. Lee, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, [12231–12247.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR04187J)
- [38] J. Duan, S. Chen, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, [5207–5234.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00991)
- [39] F. Meng, H. Zhong, D. Bao, J. Yan, X. Zhang, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05046) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [10226–10231.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05046)

- [40] M. Wang, J. Zhou, S. Cheng, Q. Pan, M. Yao, Y. Zhu, P. Wu, H. Luo, L. Yang, M. Liu, *Mater. Lett.* **2018**, *217*, [163–166](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matlet.2018.01.085).
- [41] S. M. Alshehri, J. Ahmed, A. Khan, M. Naushad, T. Ahamad, *[ChemElec](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201700955)troChem* **2018**, *5*, [355–361.](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201700955)
- [42] D. Ding, K. Shen, X. Chen, H. Chen, J. Chen, T. Fan, R. Wu, Y. Li, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02504) Catal.* **2018**, *8*, [7879–7888.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02504)
- [43] L. B. Huang, L. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Y. Chen, Q. H. Zhang, H. Luo, X. Zhang, T. Tang, L. Gu, J. S. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, [1800734.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201800734)
- [44] X. Wei, N. Li, X. Zhang, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.01.006) Acta.* **2018**, *264*, 36–45.
- [45] M. Wu, X. Hu, C. Li, J. Li, H. Zhou, X. Zhang, R. Liu, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2018.05.160) Energy* **2018**, *43*, [14701–14709](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2018.05.160).
- [46] Z. Li, M. Shao, L. Zhou, R. Zhang, C. Zhang, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, [2337–2344](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505086).
- [47] Y. Zhang, Y. Lin, H. Jiang, C. Wu, H. Liu, C. Wang, S. Chen, T. Duan, L. Song, *Small* **2018**, *14*, [1702074.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201702074)
- [48] C. Li, Y. Du, D. Wang, S. Yin, W. Tu, Z. Chen, M. Kraft, G. Chen, R. Xu, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201604328) Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, [1604328](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201604328).
- [49] K. Artyushkova, B. Kiefer, B. Halevi, A. Knop-Gericke, R. Schlogl, P. Atanassov, *Chem. Commun.* **2013**, *49*, [2539–2541](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cc40324f).
- [50] Y. Qian, Z. Liu, H. Zhang, P. Wu, C. Cai, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b11927)* **2016**, *8*, [32875–32886.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b11927)
- [51] X. R. Wang, J. Y. Liu, Z. W. Liu, W. C. Wang, J. Luo, X. P. Han, X. W. Du, S. Z. Qiao, J. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, [1800005.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201800005)
- [52] J. Yu, W. Zhou, T. Xiong, A. Wang, S. Chen, B. Chu, *Nano Res.* **2017**,10, 2599–2609.
- [53] Z. Wen, S. Ci, Y. Hou, J. Chen, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402574) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 6496– [6500.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402574)
- [54] L. Cao, N. Zhang, L. Feng, J. Huang, Y. Feng, W. Li, D. Yang, Q. Liu, *Nanoscale* **2018**, *10*, [14272–14279.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NR03930E)

- [55] A. W. Peters, Z. Li, O. K. Farha, J. T. Hupp, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, [8484–8490](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b03429)
- [56] X. Zhao, S. C. Abbas, Y. Huang, J. Lv, M. Wu, Y. Wang, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201701448) [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201701448)* **2018**, *5*, 1701448.
- [57] C. Tang, B. Wang, H. F. Wang, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, [1703185.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201703185)
- [58] Y. Guo, P. Yuan, J. Zhang, H. Xia, F. Cheng, M. Zhou, J. Li, Y. Qiao, S. Mu, Q. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, [1805641.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201805641)
- [59] X. Li, C. Liu, W. Xing, T. Lu, *J. Power Sources* **2009**, *193*, [470–476.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2009.04.007)
- [60] P. Xi, S. Xi, J. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, DOI: 10.1039/C9TA02894 C.
- [61] H. Yang, J. Miao, S. Hung, J. Chen, H. B. Tao, X. Wang, L. Zhang, R. Chen, J. Gao, H. Ming Chen, L. Dai, B. Liu, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501122.
- [62] S. Chen, J. Duan, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201305608)* **2014**, *26*, 2925– [2930.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201305608)
- [63] C. Lyu, J. Zheng, R. Zhang, R. Zou, B. Liu, W. Zhou, *[Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7QM00533D) Chem. Front.* **2018**, *2*, [323–331](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7QM00533D).
- [64] H. Jiang, J. Gu, X. Zheng, M. Liu, X. Qiu, L. Wang, J. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE03276A) Sci.*
- **2019**, *12*, [322–333.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE03276A) [65] X. Cui, S. Yang, X. Yan, J. Leng, S. Shuang, P. M. Ajayan, Z. Zhang, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201601492) Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, [5708–5717.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201601492)
- [66] Q. Wang, Y. Ji, Y. Lei, Y. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Li, S. Wang, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b00303) Lett.* **2018**, *3*, [1183–1191.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.8b00303)
- [67] H. Mei, M. Yang, Y. Shen, F. He, Z. Zhou, X. Chen, Y. Zhang, *[Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.12.051)* **2019**, *144*, [312–320.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.12.051)
- [68] T. Sharifi, G. Hu, X. Jia, T. Wågberg, *ACS Nano* **2016**, *6*, 8904–8912.
- [69] S. Zeng, H. Chen, H. Wang, X. Tong, M. Chen, J. Di, Q. Li, *[Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201700518)* **2017**, *13*, [1700518](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201700518).

Manuscript received: July 4, 2019 Revised manuscript received: August 2, 2019