---
source: Huang 等 - 2024 - Well-dispersed PtNb2 O5 on zeolitic imidazolate framework derived nitrogen-do.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 61.408s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:58:10.727188Z
---

#### **PAPER**

# Well-dispersed $Pt/Nb_2O_5$ on zeolitic imidazolate framework derived nitrogen-doped carbon for efficient oxygen reduction reaction

To cite this article: Hongying Huang et al 2024 Nanotechnology 35 295401

View the <u>article online</u> for updates and enhancements.

# You may also like

- Effect of Added Graphitized CB on Both Performance and Durability of Pt/Nb-SnO<sub>2</sub> Cathodes for PEFCs
   Yuji Chino, Koji Taniguchi, Yuichi Senoo et al.
- Platinum Sputtered on Nb-doped TiO<sub>2</sub>
   Films Prepared by ALD: Highly Active and Durable Carbon-free ORR Electrocatalyst
   Sajid Hussain, Heiki Erikson, Nadezda Kongi et al.
- Half-Sphere Shell Supported Pt Catalyst for Electrochemical Methanol Oxidation Bingzhi Ren, Jianwei Lu, Yucheng Wang et al.

Nanotechnology 35 (2024) 295401 (11pp)

# Well-dispersed Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> on zeolitic imidazolate framework derived nitrogen-doped carbon for efficient oxygen reduction reaction

Hongying Huang<sup>1</sup>, Libo Deng<sup>1</sup>, Lei Zhang<sup>1</sup>, Qianling Zhang<sup>1</sup>, Xiangzhong Ren<sup>1</sup> and Yongliang Li<sup>1,2</sup>

E-mail: liyli@szu.edu.cn

Received 29 December 2023, revised 23 March 2024 Accepted for publication 9 April 2024 Published 30 April 2024

#### **Abstract**

In this work, an advanced hybrid material was constructed by incorporating niobium pentoxide (Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>) nanocrystals with nitrogen-doped carbon (NC) derived from ZIF-8 dodecahedrons, serving as a support, referred to as Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC. Pt nanocrystals were dispersed onto Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC using a simple impregnation reduction method. The obtained Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC electrocatalyst showed high oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity due to three-phase mutual contacting structure with well-dispersed Pt and Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> NPs. In addition, the conductive NC benefits electron transfer, while the induced Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> can regulate the electronic structure of Pt element and anchor Pt nanocrystals, thereby enhancing the ORR activity and stability. The half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) for Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is 0.886 V, which is higher than that of Pt/NC ( $E_{1/2} = 0.826$  V). The stability examinations demonstrated that Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC exhibited higher electrocatalytic durability than Pt/NC. Our work provides a new direction for synthesis and structural design of precious metal/oxides hybrid electrocatalysts.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Keywords: oxygen reduction reaction, niobium pentoxide, Pt nanoparticle, nitrogen-doped carbon

## 1. Introduction

Proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) is an energy conversion device which is not limited by the Carnot cycle and directly converts chemical energy into electrical energy. However, a large number of electrocatalysts are needed to catalyze the reaction due to the slow kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) of the cathode [1, 2]. At present, platinum (Pt) metals are widely regarded as the most effective ORR electrocatalysts [3]. However, the high price of Pt greatly increases the cost of PEMFCs, thereby limiting their practical applications. Another challenge faced by ORR

electrocatalysts is their poor durability and especially Pt electrocatalysts are prone to dissolution and aggregation during operating, leading to a continuous decline in their catalytic performance. Therefore, developing highly active and stable ORR electrocatalysts simultaneously reducing Pt usage has become an urgent problem to be solved for the application of PEMFCs [4].

Many researches have tried various methods to improve the catalytic activity of electrocatalysts, such as coordination engineering, controlling size and structure, and regulating supporting [5–11]. A feasible approach is to reduce the size of Pt nanocrystals and improve their mass activity. A study has

© 2024 IOP Publishing Ltd

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> College of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518060, People's Republic of China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Guangdong Flexible Wearable Energy and Tools Engineering Technology Research Centre, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, People's Republic of China

shown that Pt nanocrystals with the size of ∼3 nm exhibit the highest specific activity because the active sites of ORR are primarily located on the terrace sites of the nanocrystals [[9](#page-10-0)]. However, electrocatalysts with small particle sizes usually aggregate during operation. Therefore, lots of studies aimed to improve the catalytic activity and stability of electrocatalysts by combining precious metals with various supports [[10](#page-10-0)–[13](#page-10-0)]. One of the most commonly used supports is metal oxide (MOx, M = Nb, Ce, Ta, Ti, Mo, Sn, etc), which is due to their resistance to corrosion and strong metal support interactions (SMSIs) with metals. The SMSIs play a pivotal role in mitigating the corrosion and aggregation of metals by ligand effect or electronic effect [[14](#page-10-0)–[20](#page-10-0)].

Among various metal oxides, niobium pentoxide (Nb2O5) is often used as a support for electrocatalysts due to its excellent chemical stability and inherent catalytic activity. Mukerjee et al demonstrated that Pt nanocrystals transfer electrons to Nb2O5, and the resulting electronic effect stabilizes low-coordination Pt sites, thereby stabilizing Pt nanocrystals [[21](#page-10-0)]. Wang et al prepared Pt particles on twodimensional (2D) Nb2O5 nanosheets and found that Ptδ<sup>+</sup> species were formed due to oxygen transfer of Nb2O5, and positively charged Pt (Ptδ+) promoted the reduction of phenylacetylene [[22](#page-10-0)]. Selvan et al found that the enhanced electrocatalytic activity of Pt-Nb/CNF was due to the SMSI between Nb2O5 and Pt, and the presence of Nb2O5 led to uniform Pt nanocrystals distribution and small particle size [[23](#page-10-0)]. In general, metal oxides have poor conductivity and a small specific surface area, which greatly affects the catalytic activity of electrocatalysts. Combining them with highly conductive carbon to form a composite support is a popular solution to this problem [[24](#page-11-0), [25](#page-11-0)]. Metal organic frameworks (MOF) have advantages of adjustable structure, large specific surface area, high porosity, and easy functionalization, making them a self-sacrificial precursor suitable for porous carbon materials [[26,](#page-11-0) [27](#page-11-0)]. Among them, zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF-8) is one of the most common precursors, in which the central metal ion Zn2<sup>+</sup> can be reduced to metallic Zn and evaporated during high-temperature carbonization and it is a commonly used precursor for synthesizing nitrogen-doped carbon (NC) materials. It has been proven that graphitic N and pyridinic N can effectively alter the charge/spin density distribution on sp<sup>2</sup> conjugated carbon substrates, leading to optimized intermediate chemical adsorption and therefore facilitated ORR [[28,](#page-11-0) [29](#page-11-0)]. In addition, experiment has shown that pyridine-N-oxide groups and graphitic N played an important role in the nucleation and growth of nanocrystals [[30](#page-11-0)].

Herein, Nb2O5 cooperated nitrogen-doped carbon (NC) composite substrate (Nb2O5/NC) was prepared by a simple calcination method. The prepared Nb2O5 showed small particle size and uniform distribution on NC. Due to the anchoring and dispersing effects of hydroxyl groups (−OH) on the surface of metal oxide, Pt nanocrystals were loaded around Nb2O5 by sodium borohydride reduction and thereby formed a three-phase mutual contacting structure (Pt/Nb2O5/NC), with the particle size of Pt being about 3 nm. Attribute to SMSI between metal and oxide and high conductivity of NC, the

prepared material exhibited excellent ORR catalytic activity and durability in alkalinity. This work sheds light on the synthesis and structural design of precious metal/oxide hybrid electrocatalysts.

# 2. Material preparation

# 2.1. Synthesis of ZIF-8

The synthesis of ZIF-8 was based on a reported experiment [[31](#page-11-0)]. 6.15 g of Zn (NO3)2·6H2O was dissolved in 250 ml of methanol and 7.4 g of 2-methylimidazole was dissolved in 250 ml of methanol, then mixed the two solutions together and stirred for 30 min by magnetic stirring. Subsequently the solution was allowed to stand for 24 h at room temperature. Next, white power solid was washed 3 times with methanol, collected by centrifugation and finally dried overnight at 60 °C.

# 2.2. Synthesis of Nb2O5/NC

50 mg of NbCl5 was dissolved in 60 ml of ethanol, then 250 mg ZIF-8 was added to the solution and ultrasonicated for 10 min to disperse it homogeneously, followed by stirring for 3 h. Next, the black powder was washed 3 times with ethanol, collected by centrifugation and dried for 12 h. Finally, material was annealed at 900 °C for 2 h with heating rate of 5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> under Argon flow. NC was synthetized by carbonizing ZIF-8 at 900 °C. Using the same method, we added 250 mg of ZIF-8 to NbCl5 weighing 25 and 75 mg, resulting in different composite carriers, named Nb2O5/NC-1 and Nb2O5/NC-2, respectively.

# 2.3. Synthesis of Pt/Nb2O5/NC

81 mg of Nb2O5/NC was put into a beaker, and 30 ml of deionized water was added. After ultrasonicating for 10 min, a certain amount of H2PtCl6·6H2O solution was put in (the mass ratio of Pt to Pt/Nb2O5/NC is 10%) and stirred for 1 h. Subsequently, Pt was reduced by adding of an excess of fresh NaBH4 solution and stirring for 3 h. Finally, the black Pt/Nb2O5/NC electrocatalyst was washed by centrifugation with deionized water. We also used the same method to load Pt nanocrystals on other supports to obtain Pt/NC, Pt/Nb2O5/NC-1 and Pt/Nb2O5/NC-2.

# 3. Physical characterizations

The morphology and structure of catalysts were characterized by field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM, Hitachi S-3400N) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM, Hitachi HF-3300). Material composition and crystal phase were given by x-ray diffraction (XRD, Empyrean). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, ESCALAB-250 Xi) was used to identify valency states of elements. The Raman spectrum was performed on DXR Thermo-Fisher Scientific. In addition, the total incorporation content of Pt element was detected by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES, PE Avio 200).

where  $I_{\rm d}$  is the disk current density (mA cm<sup>-2</sup>),  $I_r$  is the ring current density (mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and N is the current collection efficiency of the Pt ring (0.37).

## 4. Electrochemical measurements

All the electrochemical measurements of the as-prepared electrocatalysts were carried out on an electrochemical workstation (CHI760E, China) with three-electrode system. The three-electrode system included rotating disk electrode (RDE, 5 mm in diameter), counter electrode (Pt plate electrode) and reference electrode (Hg/HgO). All the potentials mentioned in this paper have been transformed to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) according to Nernst equation: E (versus RHE) = E (versus Hg/HgO) + 0.098 V + 0.0592 × pH. The preparation of the working electrode is as follows: firstly, 5 mg of electrocatalyst was added to the solution containing 960  $\mu$ l ethanol and 40 µl Nafion (5 wt%), then sonicating for 30 min in order to make the ink homogeneous. Afterward, 15  $\mu$ l of the prepared electrocatalyst ink was dropped on the glassy carbon electrode carefully and allowed to air dry. Commercial 20% Pt/C (wt.%) electrocatalyst ink was also prepared in the same way. The obtained electrocatalysts loading were  $0.383 \,\mathrm{mg}\,\mathrm{cm}^{-2}$ 

All the electrochemistry tests were run in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte solution. Before every test, oxygen was injected into electrolyte to achieve  $O_2$ -saturated. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements were performed within a potential range of -0.1 to 1.1 V in an  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. LSV measurements were carried out at a scant rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at 400, 625, 900, 1225, 1600 and 2025 rpm. The chronoamperometry responses were also performed in an  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 0.65 V. The methanol tolerance experiment was conducted by adding 1 M methanol to the solution at  $\sim$ 560 s. The number of electron transfers can be obtained through Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots, the K–L equation is as follows:

$$\frac{1}{j} = \frac{1}{j_k} + \frac{1}{j_d} = \frac{1}{nFAkC_0} + \frac{1}{0.2nFA\omega^{1/2}v^{-1/6}D_0^{2/3}C_0},$$

where j is the experimental current density (mA cm<sup>-2</sup>),  $\omega$  is the electrode rotation speed (rpm),  $j_k$  is the kinetic current density (mA cm<sup>-2</sup>),  $j_d$  is the diffusion-limited current density (mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). F is the Faraday constant (96485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>), A is area of glass carbon electrode (0.196 cm<sup>2</sup>).  $C_0$  is the bulk concentration of oxygen in the electrolyte (1.2  $\times$  10<sup>-6</sup> mol cm<sup>-3</sup>),  $D_0$  is the diffusion coefficient of oxygen in 0.1 M KOH (1.9  $\times$  10<sup>-5</sup> cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>),  $\nu$  is the kinetic viscosity (0.01 cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), n is electron transfer number.

Rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) measurement was conducted at 1600 rpm, it was used to calculate the  $HO_2^-\%$  and the electron transfer number (n) by following equations:

$$ext{HO}_2^-\% = 200 imes rac{I_r/N}{I_d + I_r/N}$$
 
$$n = 4 imes rac{I_d}{I_d + I_r/N},$$

## 5. Results and discussion

As depicted in figure 1(a), the preparation of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC involves three steps. First, ZIF-8 was obtained by self-assembled reaction of Zn(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and 2-methylimidazole. Next, Nb<sup>5+</sup> was adsorbed on the surface of ZIF-8 and followed with carbonization at 900 °C for 3 h, then ZIF-8 derived N-doped carbon (NC) decorated with Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> was obtained (Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC). Finally, Pt nanocrystals were loaded onto Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC by NaBH<sub>4</sub> reduction. As shown in figure 1(b), there is no change in the crystal structure of ZIF-8 after adsorbing Nb<sup>5+</sup>. Figure 1(c) suggests that Pt/NC, Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC were successfully synthesized. The XRD peaks of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC located at  $40.0^{\circ}$ ,  $46.7^{\circ}$ ,  $67.8^{\circ}$ ,  $81.5^{\circ}$  are assigned to (111), (200), (220), (311) faces of Pt crystalline phase (PDF#04-0802) respectively, which proves that [PtCl<sub>6</sub>]<sup>2-</sup> was reduced to metallic Pt and the successful incorporation of Pt nanocrystals onto Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC. The other distinct diffraction peaks are attributed to Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> (PDF#19-0864). The structures of the electrocatalyst materials were further explored by Raman spectroscopy (figure 1(d)). The two peaks at 1339 and 1593 cm<sup>-1</sup> correspond to D- and G-bands [32–34]. D-band represents the defects of C atomic lattice, while the G-band represents the in-plane stretching vibration of sp<sup>2</sup> hybridization of C atomic, it is proportionate to degree of graphitization. The electrical conductivity of carbon-based materials can be improved by increasing the degree of graphitization, and good electric conductivity of electrocatalyst is essential for ORR [35]. The  $I_D/I_G$  ratios of NC, Pt/NC and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC are 1.15, 1.07, 0.92 respectively. In comparison with NC, the slighted decreased  $I_D/I_G$  value of Pt/NC can be ascribed to adsorption of Pt nanocrystals on the defect sites of NC [36]. Moreover, the  $I_D/I_G$  value of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is smaller than Pt/NC and NC along. It may be ascribed to the catalysis for graphitization by Nb during pyrolysis process. Many studies have confirmed that metal species can promote the graphitization of carbon during high temperature pyrolysis [37, 38]. The smaller  $I_D/I_G$  value of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC suggests good crystallinity, higher degree of graphitization and better conductivity, which will result in stronger electron transport ability and superior catalytic performance.

SEM was used to investigated the structures of the prepared materials. As shown in figure 2(a), after annealing at high temperature, the prepared NC retains a regular dodecahedron shape. When Pt NPs were reduced on the surface of NC directly, the morphology of NC was well-maintained, however the morphologies and the size distribution of the Pt nanocrystals dispersed on the surface of the NCs was varied (the dashed circles), which may result in the declined electrocatalyical activities (figure 2(b)). Adsorbing Nb<sup>5+</sup> before calcination can obtain the Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, there is no clear large particles can be seen at the magnification of picture (figure 2(c)), which illustrates the small size of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 1. (a) The illustration of the preparation procedures of Pt/Nb2O5/NC. XRD patterns of (b) Nb5+/ZIF-8 and ZIF-8 and (c) Pt/NC, Pt/ Nb2O5/NC and Nb2O5/NC. (d) Raman spectra of Pt/Nb2O5/NC, Pt/NC and NC.

Figure 2. FE-SEM images of (a) NC, (b) Pt/NC, (c) Nb2O5/NC and (d) Pt/Nb2O5/NC.

Figure 3. TEM images of (a) Pt/NC, (b)  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  and (c)  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ . (d) HRTEM image of  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ . (e)–(j) EDX element mapping of  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ .

However, the morphology of  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  is wrinkled, which may be attributed to the strong interfacial interaction between ZIF-8 and  $Nb_2O_5$ , leading to the generation of shrinking stress during the formation of  $Nb_2O_5$  during calcination. As observed in figure 2(d), when metallic Pt was loaded on the  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  to get  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ , the nanocrystals were well-distributed without obvious agglomeration of Pt nanocrystals. Furthermore, the shape of  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  was not changed.

TEM was carried to further investigate the structure of the prepared electrocatalysts. When Pt nanocrystals were reduced on ZIF-8 derived NC, the size of Pt nanocrystals was uneven, mostly ranging from 3 to 8 nm (figure 3(a)). As illustrated in figure 3(b), well-distributed Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> was supported on NC with a particle size of about 5 nm through one-step calcination. Comparing the differences between the low-magnification TEM images of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, we can infer that the small particles with the size of about 2–3 nm belong to metallic Pt (figure 3(c)). Compared with Pt/NC, Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/ NC shows a more uniform particle size and distribution of Pt nanocrystals, with Pt nanocrystals tending to grow around Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>, possibly due to the presence of -OH on the surface of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>. There was general agreement that -OH can serve as anchoring and dispersing site for metal layer [39-41]. Therefore, the growth of Pt nanocrystals around Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> is beneficial for generating interaction between metallic Pt and Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>. At the same time, Pt nanocrystals contact with conductive carbon support, which is an advantage for electronic transportation. The dual structural advantages of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC increase the catalytic activity synergistically. In the marked park of HRTEM picture (figure 3(d)), it can be observed that the lattice spacings of 0.231 and 0.365 nm, which are ascribed to the (111) crystal plane of Pt and (\_202) crystal plane of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> respectively. match with XRD test results. In addition, HRTEM further verifies that the small and big particles in figure 3(c) correspond to Pt and Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> respectively. Furthermore, as shown in figures 3(e)–(j), the uniform elemental distribution of C, Nb, N, O, and Pt are revealed by mapping of the prepared sample, further confirming that  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  was synthesized successfully by mentioned method.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted to investigate the elementary composition and electronic states and thus to explore the interaction between different compositions. All XPS spectra were calibrated with C 1s at 284.8 eV. The presence of C, N, O, Nb, and Pt elements are confirmed by XPS (figure 4(a)). Moreover, XPS survey spectrum reveals the presence of C (72.3 at%), N (3.21 at%), O (18.35 at%), Nb (5.20 at%) and Pt (0.93 at%) in the  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  sample (figure 4(b)). The high-resolution peaks for N 1s, Nb 3d and Pt 4f are shown in figures 4(c)–(h). The high-resolution N 1s spectra for Pt/NC (figure 4(c)) and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC (figure 4(d)) clearly distinguish two bands of pyridinic N (about 398 eV) and graphitic N (about 400 eV) [42–44]. Pyridinic N is located at the edge of the graphite structure, with one nitrogen atom connecting two carbon atoms while graphitic N is located at the center of the graphite structure, with one nitrogen atom connected to three carbon atoms [44, 45]. Relative content of graphitic N of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is higher than that of Pt/NC, which indicates

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. (a) and (b) XPS survey spectra, XPS spectra of N 1s signal of (c) Pt/NC and (d)  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ , XPS spectra of Nb 3d signal of (e)  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  and (f)  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ , and XPS spectra of Pt 4f signal of (g) Pt/NC and (h)  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ .

higher conductivity of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and is also consistent to the Raman results. The Raman spectra show that the adsorption of Nb5+ followed by high-temperature carbonization promotes the rearrangement of carbon structure due to the catalytic effect of metal ions, resulting in an increase in graphitization degree and fewer defects in ZIF-8 derived carbon. Since pyridinic N is the nitrogen atom connected between two carbon atoms on the edge of graphene, fewer defects mean less carbon and nitrogen on the edge, that is, the relative content of pyridinic N decreases while the content of graphitic N increases [37, 46]. Nb 3d spectra was deconvoluted into dual peaks at around 207 eV and 210 eV (figures 4(e) and (f)). The two peaks are attributed to Nb<sup>5+</sup>  $3d_{5/2}$  and  $Nb^{5+}$   $3d_{3/2}$ , respectively. Interestingly, the characteristic peak of  $Nb^{5+}$  3d in  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  shifts to lower binding energy compare to Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, suggesting the electron transfer from other components to Nb component. As for Pt element of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC (figure 4(h)), the dominant signals at binding energy of 74.85 and 71.45 eV can be assigned to  $Pt^{\circ} 4f_{5/2}$  and  $Pt^{\circ} 4f_{7/2}$ , and the binding energy of 75.63 and 72.40 eV can be assigned to  $Pt^{2+}$   $4f_{5/2}$  and  $Pt^{2+}$  $4f_{7/2}$ . As for Pt element of Pt/NC (figure 4(g)), the peaks of  $Pt^{\circ} 4f_{5/2}$  and  $Pt^{\circ} 4f_{7/2}$  are located in 74.5 and 71.14 eV, and the peaks of  $Pt^{2+} 4f_{5/2}$  and  $Pt^{2+} 4f_{7/2}$  are located in 75.48 and 72.28 eV. Therefore, it is clear that the Pt element in Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC exhibits a higher binding energy compared to Pt/NC. Particularly, a positive peak shift of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC indicates that the introduction of Nb2O5 has caused charge transfer between Pt and other component. In combination with the binding energy change of Nb element, we can infer that electron transfer from the Pt component to the Nb component, which confirms that the SIMI phenomenon between Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt nanocrystals [47–49]. It also can be observed that the ratio of  $Pt^{\circ}$  to  $Pt^{2+}$  in  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  exceed the ratio in Pt/NC, which is conducive to ORR.

To explore the reasons for the growth of Pt nanocrystals around Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>, we conducted FTIR tests. From the figure 5(a), it can be seen that Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC exhibits a stretching vibration peak of -OH around 3500 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which significantly weakens in Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, indicating that Pt tends to grow at -OH sites. This may be due to the coordination of -OH with metal ions [50]. Previous study has utilized xylose as a carbon source to prepare OMCs encapsulating noble-metal nanoparticles, where hydrogen bonding and Coulombic interactions between xylose and H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>·<sub>6</sub>H<sub>2</sub>O or PdCl<sub>2</sub>·HCl increase the stability of metal ions in copolymerization [51]. The presence of -OH on the surface of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> precisely facilitates the growth of Pt nanocrystals around it, forming a three-phase mutual contacting structure. In this way, Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> can undergo electronic interactions with Pt and also exert the conductivity of NC (figure 5(b)). It demonstrates that designing the catalyst structure can effectively exploit the synergistic effects between its components.

Figure 6 shows the nitrogen adsorption/desorption curves for NC, Pt/NC, Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC. The sharp increase observed at  $P/P_0 < 0.05$  indicates the presence of abundant micropores in NC, Pt/NC, Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC (figure 6(a)). The microporous structure may be partially attributed to the pore-formation function of Zn vapor under high pyrolysis conditions [52]. However, with the introduction of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>, the nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms exhibited typical Type IV isotherm characteristics, featuring hysteresis loops in the medium pressure region, which is generally attributed to a mesoporous structure [53]. This characteristic is also reflected in figure 6(b), there are more mesoporous structure in Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/ Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC catalysts. Clearly, the induced Nb<sup>5+</sup> plays a crucial role for the formation of mesoporous structure. Mesopores structures are beneficial for

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5 (a) FTIR spectra of  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  and  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ . (b) diagram of three-phase mutual contacting structure and electron transfer of  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ .

Figure 6. (a)  $N_2$  adsorption desorption curves and (b) pore size distribution curves of different catalysts.

mass transfer, which in turn promotes the occurrence of ORR reactions. The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface areas of NC, Pt/NC, Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC are 682.11, 564.14, 712.42 and 617.89 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. It indicates that Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC shows lower specific surface area, it might be ascribed to the Pt mass occupation [54].

The electrocatalytic ORR activities over the Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, Pt /NC, Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and commercial 20% Pt/C were study by cyclic voltammograms (CVs) (figure 7(a)). As observed, all electrocatalysts possess cathodic peaks in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte, implying certain catalytic activity toward alkaline solution. The Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC displays a more positive peak than Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/NC, suggesting higher ORR activity of the Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC. It should be ascribed to synergistic effect between Pt and Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>. The ORR performance was further investigated by LSV curves, which was

tested on a rotating disk electrode (RDE) at 1600 rpm in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. Among  $Nb_2O_5/NC$  ( $E_{1/2}$ = 0.716 V), Pt/NC ( $E_{1/2} = 0.826$  V) and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC  $(E_{1/2} = 0.886 \text{ V})$ , Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC electrocatalyst exhibits the best ORR performance which is close to commercial 20% Pt/ C ( $E_{1/2} = 0.896 \,\mathrm{V}$ ). The electrochemical performance is superior to those Pt-based electrocatalyst reported (table S1). We also obtained the LSV of electrocatalysts with different NbCl<sub>5</sub> contents. As shown in figure S1, the  $E_{1/2}$  of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is more positive than those of the others. The proportion of components affects the performance of the electrocatalyst. It reveals that precise design and synthesis of composite material is crucial for electrocatalyst performance. As shown in figure 7(c), the Tafel plots of the Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, Pt /NC, Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and commercial 20% Pt/C catalysts were derived from the ORR polarization curves. The

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 7. (a) CV curves, (b) LSV curves. (c) Tafel slopes of the prepared samples. (d) LSV curves at different speeds and (e) K-L plots of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC. (f) electron transfer number (n) (right) and  $HO_2^-$  yield (right).

Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC electrocatalyst shows the lowest slope among Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, Pt/NC and Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, which is similar to Pt/C, indicating the high intrinsic ORR activities and fast kinetics. As depicted in figure 7(d), the ORR performance at different rotation speed of 400, 625, 900, 1025, 1600 and 2025 rpm were tested. And Koutecky-Levich (K-L) (figure 7(e)) plots show nearly collateral fitting lines, indicating the first-order ORR kinetics [55]. The calculated electron transfer number of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is about 4, suggesting a four-electron process. Moreover, the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) measurements were further carried to probe the ORR selectivity of the prepared electrocatalysts (figure S2). As shown in figure 7(f), the electron transfer number for the Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is in the range of 3.94–3.98, which is consistent with the result from K-L plots. And the HO<sub>2</sub> yield of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC remains below 2.5% at the potential range of 0.2-0.7 V, which is similar to the commercial 20% Pt/C and lower than Pt/NC, confirming the reaction selectivity of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC can be improved by introducing Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>.Additionally, the electron transfer number of Pt/NC is lower than that of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, further revealing a high efficiency four-electron ORR process of  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ .

Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) was used to test the element content of materials. It revealed that Pt mass fraction in  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  and Pt/NC were  $\sim 10\%$  and  $\sim 8\%$  respectively. A comparison of the mass activity (MS) for Pt/NC, commercial 20% Pt/C and  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  at 0.85 and 0.9 V (versus RHE) is shown in figure 8(a).  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$ 

exhibited a high MA of 0.078 and 0.123 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  at 0.9 and 0.85 V, which is about twice of Pt/NC and commercial 20% Pt/C. It indicates that using Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC as an oxygen reduction catalyst can reduce the cost of fuel cell cathode. The high ORR activity of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC is attributed to the optimal synergistic effect of Pt with the Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC support. The durability of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC and Pt/NC samples at 0.65 V (versus RHE) was also investigated in 0.1 M KOH solution at the rotation speed of 1600 rpm (figure 7(b)). It shows that the ORR current remains 87.9% after 65000 s test, clearly better than that of Pt/NC (79.6%) and 20% Pt/C (86.27%). The methanol tolerance test was performed by gradually adding drops of methanol solution. The insert map in figure 8(b) illustrates that the current densities of Pt/NC and 20% Pt/C decline faster than that of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC. The good stability of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC may be benefited from the outstanding structure stability and anchoring effect of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>.

In order to confirm the stability of Pt NPs on Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, TEM image of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC after 65000 s chronoamperometric test was compared with the fresh catalyst. It was observed that Pt nanocrystals dispersed evenly on the Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC support without agglomeration after the chronoamperometric test (figure 9). The size distribution graph of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC before and after durability testing shows that the average particle size of Pt nanocrystals only increased from 2.35  $\pm$  0.06 to 2.37  $\pm$  0.06 nm, without any signs of particle aggregation. It indicates the structural stability of Pt/Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/NC, with Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> serving to disperse and anchor Pt nanocrystals.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 8. (a) Mass activity of commercial Pt/NC, 20% Pt/C and Pt/Nb2O5/NC at 0.85 and 0.9 V (versus RHE). (b) Chronoamperometric responses of Pt/NC, Pt/Nb2O5/NC and 20% Pt/C at 0.65 V (versus RHE) to test the stability and methanol tolerance tests in alkaline media.

Figure 9. TEM images of (a)fresh Pt/Nb2O5/NC and (c) Pt/Nb2O5/NC after 65 000 s chronoamperometric test; size distribution plotted of (b) fresh Pt/Nb2O5/NC and (d) Pt/Nb2O5/NC after 65 000 s chronoamperometric test.

# 6. Conclusions

In summary, we have designed a novel hybrid support material of cooperating Nb2O5 with ZIF-8 derived nitrogendoped porous carbon by a simple calcination to load Pt nanocrystals. The structure of prepared Pt/Nb2O5/NC is three-phase mutual contacting with well-dispersed Nb2O5 and Pt nanocrystals. Owing to anchoring and dispersing effect of Nb2O5, the overgrowth of Pt species has small size and disperse more evenly. Benefiting from conductive NC support <span id="page-10-0"></span>and SMSIs effect between Pt nanocrystals and  $Nb_2O_5$ , the obtained  $Pt/Nb_2O_5/NC$  nanomaterial shows outstanding electrocatalytic activity and stability toward oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in alkaline media. This innovative method provides great prospects for improving the long-term stability and activity of Pt catalysts.

# **Acknowledgments**

This work was supported by the Shenzhen Science and Technology Project Program (Nos. 20220809143143001 and JCYJ20200109105801725).

# Data availability statement

All data that support the findings of this study are included within the article (and any supplementary files).

# Competing interests

The authors declare that they have no competing interests.

#### **ORCID iDs**

Libo Deng https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7141-0419 Yongliang Li https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5008-0868

# References

- [1] Balamurugan J, Nguyen T T, Kim N H, Kim D and Lee J H 2021 Novel core–shell CuMo-oxynitride@N-doped graphene nanohybrid as multifunctional catalysts for rechargeable zinc-air batteries and water splitting *Nano Energy* 85 10598
- [2] Lim J et al 2022 Atomically ordered Pt<sub>3</sub>Mn intermetallic electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction in fuel cells J. Mater. Chem. A 10 7399–408
- [3] Zhang L et al 2015 Platinum-based nanocages with subnanometer-thick walls and well-defined, controllable facets Science 349 412-6
- [4] Banham D, Zou J X, Mukerjee S, Liu Z H, Yang D, Zhang Y, Peng Y and Dong A G 2021 Ultralow platinum loading proton exchange membrane fuel cells: performance losses and solutions J. Power Sources 490 229515
- [5] Tan W et al 2022 Fine-tuned local coordination environment of Pt single atoms on ceria controls catalytic reactivity Nat. Commun. 13 7070
- [6] Hui L et al 2022 Highly dispersed platinum chlorine atoms anchored on gold quantum dots for a highly efficient electrocatalyst J. Am. Chem. Soc. 144 1921–8
- [7] Gong L, Zhu J W, Xia F J, Zhang Y H, Shi W J, Chen L, Yu J, Wu J S and Mu S C 2023 Marriage of ultralow platinum and single-atom MnN<sub>4</sub> moiety for augmented ORR and HER catalysis ACS Catal. 13 4012–20
- [8] Hussain S, Erikson H, Kongi N, Sarapuu A, Solla-Gullón J, Maia G, Kannan A M, Alonso-Vante N and Tammeveski K 2020 Oxygen reduction reaction on nanostructured Pt-based

- electrocatalysts: a review *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy* **45** 31775–97
- [9] Perez-Alonso F J, McCarthy D N, Nierhoff A, Hernandez-Fernandez P, Strebel C, Stephens I E L, Nielsen J H and Chorkendorff I 2012 The effect of size on the oxygen electroreduction activity of mass-selected platinum nanoparticles *Angew. Chem.-Int. Ed.* 51 4641–3
- [10] Ye C L, Zheng M, Li Z M, Fan Q K, Ma H Q, Fu X Z, Wang D S, Wang J and Li Y D 2022 Electrical pulse induced one-step formation of atomically dispersed Pt on oxide clusters for ultra-low-temperature zinc-air battery *Angew. Chem.-Int. Ed.* 61 e202213366
- [11] He C Y, Zhang S K and Tao J Z 2022 Two-dimensional bimetallic carbide boosts Pt toward oxygen reduction reaction ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 5 4382–9
- [12] Xue S, Yu Y J, Wei S S, Xu B B, Lei J, Ban R C, Wu Q H, Zheng M S, Li J and Kang J Y 2018 Nitrogen-doped porous carbon derived from ZIF-8 as a support of electrocatalyst for enhanced oxygen reduction reaction in acidic solution J. Taiwan Inst. Chem. Eng. 91 539–47
- [13] Wang K, Wang Y F, Geng S P, Wang Y and Song S Q 2022 High-temperature confinement synthesis of supported Pt-Ni nanoparticles for efficiently catalyzing oxygen reduction reaction Adv. Funct. Mater. 32 2113399
- [14] Yang L T et al 2022 Stabilizing Pt electrocatalysts via introducing reducible oxide support as reservoir of electrons and oxygen species ACS Catal. 12 13523–32
- [15] Yoo M et al 2020 A tailored oxide interface creates dense Pt single-atom catalysts with high catalytic activity Energy Environ. Sci. 13 1231–9
- [16] Lin Z J, Liu J Y, Li S Z, Liang J S, Liu X, Xie L F, Lu G, Han J T, Huang Y H and Li Q 2023 Anti-corrosive SnS<sub>2</sub>/SnO<sub>2</sub> heterostructured support for Pt nanoparticles enables remarkable oxygen reduction catalysis via interfacial enhancement Adv. Funct. Mater. 33 2211638
- [17] Du C, Gao X H, Cheng C F, Zhuang Z H, Li X K and Chen W 2018 Metal organic framework for the fabrication of mutually interacted Pt-CeO<sub>2</sub>-C ternary nanostructure: advanced electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction *Electrochim. Acta* 266 348–56
- [18] Gao W B, Zhang Z P, Dou M L and Wang F 2019 Highly dispersed and crystalline Ta<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> anchored Pt electrocatalyst with improved activity and durability toward oxygen reduction: promotion by atomic-scale Pt-Ta<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> interactions ACS Catal. 9 3278–88
- [19] Wang Y J, Wilkinson D P, Neburchilov V, Song C J, Guest A and Zhang J J 2014 Ta and Nb co-doped TiO<sub>2</sub> and its carbon-hybrid materials for supporting Pt–Pd alloy electrocatalysts for PEM fuel cell oxygen reduction reaction J. Mater. Chem. A 2 12681–5
- [20] Esfahani R A M, Vankova S K, Videla A and Specchia S 2017 Innovative carbon-free low content Pt catalyst supported on Mo-doped titanium suboxide (Ti<sub>3</sub>O<sub>5</sub>-Mo) for stable and durable oxygen reduction reaction Appl. Catal.B 201 419–29
- [21] Jia Q Y, Ghoshal J S, Li J K, Liang W T, Meng G N, Che H Y, Zhang S M, Ma Z F and Mukerjee S 2017 Metal and metal oxide interactions and their catalytic consequences for oxygen reduction reaction J. Am. Chem. Soc. 139 7893–903
- [22] Su K Y, Wang Y H, Zhang C F, Gao Z Y, Han J Y and Wang F 2021 Tuning the Pt species on Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> by supportinduced modification in the photocatalytic transfer hydrogenation of phenylacetylene *Appl. Catal. B* 298 120554
- [23] Shanmugapriya S, Zhu P, Yan C Y, Asiri A M, Zhang X W and Selvan R K 2019 Multifunctional highperformance electrocatalytic properties of Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> incorporated carbon nanofibers as Pt support catalyst Adv. Mater. Interfaces 6 1900565

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[24] Guo W X et al 2023 Hierarchical porous Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub> nanoframework for efficient oxygen reduction reaction ACS Catal. 13 5397–405
- [25] Song Z X, Zhou X, Sun L D, Zhang Q F, Li Y L, Ren X Z, Zhang H and Zhang L 2024 Enhancing electron interaction between Pt and support for superior electrochemical performance through atomic layer deposition of tungsten oxide J. Colloid Interface Sci. 654 1272–80
- [26] Yang W P, Li X X, Li Y, Zhu R M and Pang H 2019
  Applications of metal-organic-framework-derived carbon materials *Adv. Mater.* 31 1804740
  [27] Yang D and Gates B C 2019 Catalysis by metal organic
- [27] Yang D and Gates B C 2019 Catalysis by metal organic frameworks: perspective and suggestions for future research ACS Catal. 9 1779–98
- [28] Yu L, Pan X, Cao X, Hu P and Bao X 2011 Oxygen reduction reaction mechanism on nitrogen-doped graphene: a density functional theory study J. Catal. 282 183–90
- [29] Liang H W, Zhuang X, Brüller S, Feng X and Müllen K 2014 Hierarchically porous carbons with optimized nitrogen doping as highly active electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction *Nat. Commun.* 5 4793
- [30] Xue S, Yu Y J, Wei S B, Xu B B, Lei J, Ban R C, Wu Q H, Zheng M C, Li J and Kang J Y 2018 Nitrogen-doped porous carbon derived from ZIF-8 as a support of electrocatalyst for enhanced oxygen reduction reaction in acidic solution J. Taiwan Inst. Chem. Eng. 91 539–47
- [31] Cravillon J, Nayuk R, Springer S, Feldhoff A, Huber K and Wiebcke M 2011 Controlling zeolitic imidazolate framework nano- and microcrystal formation: Insight into crystal growth by time-resolved in situ static light scattering Chem. Mater. 23 2130–41
- [32] Pareek A, Sravan J S and Mohan S V 2019 Graphene modified electrodes for bioelectricity generation in mediator-less microbial fuel cell J. Mater. Sci. 54 11604–17
- [33] Murugesan D, Prakash S, Ponpandian N, Manisankar P and Viswanathan C 2019 Two dimensional α-MoO<sub>3</sub> nanosheets decorated carbon cloth electrodes for high-performance supercapacitors *Colloids Surf*. A 569 137–44
- [34] Long B, Ma J F, Song T, Wang X Y and Tong Y X 2021
  Tailoring superficial morphology, defect and functional
  group of commercial carbon cloth for a flexible, stable and
  high-capacity anode in sodium ion battery *Electrochim. Acta*374 137934
- [35] Zhang L J, Su Z X, Jiang F L, Yang L L, Qian J J, Zhou Y F, Li W M and Hong M C 2014 Highly graphitized nitrogendoped porous carbon nanopolyhedra derived from ZIF-8 nanocrystals as efficient electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reactions *Nanoscale* 6 6590–602
- [36] Xu X, Dong X F, Li D Q, Qi M and Huang H 2023 ZIF-8derived three-dimensional nitrogen-doped porous carbon as a Pt catalyst support for electrocatalytic oxidation of glucose in a glucose fuel cell ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 6 2886–96
- [37] Ye W et al 2019 Precisely tuning the number of Fe atoms in clusters on N-doped carbon toward acidic oxygen reduction reaction Chem 5 2865–78
- [38] Xue Y Y, Guo Y B, Zhang Q M, Xie Z J, Wei J P and Zhou Z 2022 MOF-derived Co and Fe species loaded on N-doped carbon networks as efficient oxygen electrocatalysts for Znair batteries *Nano-Micro Lett.* 14 162
- [39] Qu Z P, Cheng M J, Huang W X and Bao X H 2005 Formation of subsurface oxygen species and its high activity toward CO oxidation over silver catalysts J. Catal. 229 446–58
- [40] Wang F, Ma J Z, Xin S H, Wang Q, Xu J, Zhang C B, He H and Zeng X C 2020 Resolving the puzzle of singleatom silver dispersion on nanosized γ-Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> surface for high catalytic performance *Nat. Commun.* 11 529

- [41] Zhang Z L, He G Z, Li Y B, Zhang C B, Ma J Z and He H 2022 Effect of hydroxyl groups on metal anchoring and formaldehyde oxidation performance of Pt/Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> Environ. Sci. Technol. 56 10916–24
- [42] Xiao Y C, Hong A N, Hu D D, Wang Y X, Bu X H and Feng P Y 2019 Solvent-free synthesis of zeolitic imidazolate frameworks and the catalytic properties of their carbon materials *Chem.—Eur. J.* 25 16358–65
- [43] Kundu S, Xia W, Busser W, Becker M, Schmidt D A, Havenith M and Muhler M 2010 The formation of nitrogencontaining functional groups on carbon nanotube surfaces: a quantitative XPS and TPD study *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* 12 4351–9
- [44] Shi Q R, Zhu C Z, Engelhard M H, Du D and Lin Y H 2017 Highly uniform distribution of Pt nanoparticles on N-doped hollow carbon spheres with enhanced durability for oxygen reduction reaction RSC Adv. 7 6303–8
- [45] Sarkar S, Sudolská M, Dubecky M, Reckmeier C J, Rogach A L, Zboril R and Otyepka M 2016 Graphitic nitrogen doping in carbon dots causes red-shifted absorption J. Phys. Chem. C 120 1303–8
- [46] Gao H W, Wang Y H, Li W, Zhou S Y, Song S W, Tian X Q, Yuan Y G, Zhou Y K and Zang J B 2021 One-step carbonization of ZIF-8 in Mn-containing ambience to prepare Mn, N co-doped porous carbon as efficient oxygen reduction reaction electrocatalyst *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy* 46 36742–52
- [47] Justin P, Charan P H K and Rao G R 2010 High performance Pt-Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>/C electrocatalysts for methanol electrooxidation in acidic media *Appl. Catal.* B 100 510–5
- [48] Lee W J, Park D H, Lee H J, Byeon J H, Kim M H and Park K W 2023 Enhanced oxygen reduction reaction performance of Pt catalysts on Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> nanoparticles decorated carbon nanostructures *Mater. Sci. Eng.*B 289 116253
- [49] MoghadamEsfahani R A, Vankova S K, Easton E B, Ebralidze, Ebralidze I I and Specchia S 2020 A hybrid Pt/NbO/CNTs catalyst with high activity and durability for oxygen reduction reaction in PEMFC Renew. Energy 154 913–24
- [50] Gao M, Wang L, Yang Y, Sun Y, Zhao X and Wan Y 2023 Metal and metal oxide supported on ordered mesoporous carbon as heterogeneous catalysts ACS Catal. 13 4060–90
- [51] Liu J R, Xie L, Wang Z, Mao S J, Gong Y T and Wang Y 2020 Biomass-derived ordered mesoporous carbon nano-ellipsoid encapsulated metal nanoparticles inside: ideal nanoreactors for shape-selective catalysis *Chem. Commun.* 56 229–32
- [52] Wu L M, Ni B X, Chen R, Sun P C and Chen T H 2020 A general approach for hierarchically porous metal/N/C nanosphere electrocatalysts: nano-confined pyrolysis of in situ-formed amorphous metal-ligand complexes J. Mater. Chem. A 8 21026–35
- [53] Deng Y J, Dong Y Y, Wang G H, Sun K L, Shi X D, Zheng L, Li X H and Liao S J 2017 Well-defined ZIF-derived Fe-N codoped carbon nanoframes as efficient oxygen reduction catalysts ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9 9699–709
- [54] Gao M L, Li L Y, Sun Z X, Li J R and Jiang H L 2022 Facet engineering of a metal-organic framework support modulates the microenvironment of palladium nanoparticles for selective hydrogenation *Angew. Chem.-Int. Ed.* 61 e202211216
- [55] Han Y, Duan H L, Zhou C H, Meng H B, Jiang Q Y, Wang B S, Yan W S and Zhang R F 2022 Stabilizing cobalt single atoms via flexible carbon membranes as bifunctional electrocatalysts for binder-free zinc-air batteries *Nano Lett*. 22 2497–505