---
source: Huang 等 - 2020 - Synthesis of Ultrathin MoS2 Nanosheets Embedded in 3D Hierarchically Nitrogen‐and‐Sulfur.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 36.990s
generated: 2026-01-09T11:57:09.314940Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Facile and scalable syntheses of ultrathin MoS2 nanosheets embedded in 3D hierarchically N, S co-doped porous carbon composites as efficient ORR catalyst

**Authors:** Moujie Huang, Huanhui Chen, Jiao He, Junning Chen, Lingna Sun, Yongliang Li, Xiangzhong Ren, and Libo Deng

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemElectroChem* 10.1002/celc.202000768

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.202000768

# **Facile and scalable syntheses of ultrathin MoS2nanosheets embedded in 3D hierarchically N, S co-doped porous carbon composites as efficient ORR catalyst**

Moujie Huang, Huanhui Chen, Jiao He, Junning Chen, Lingna Sun\*, Yongliang Li, Xiangzhong Ren\*, Libo Deng

[a] M. J. Huang, H. H. Chen, J. He, J. N. Chen, Prof. L. N. Sun, Prof. Y. L. Li, Prof. X. Z. Ren, Prof. L. B. Deng College of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering Shenzhen University Shenzhen, Guangdong 518060, P.R. China

E-mail: [renxz@szu.edu.cn](mailto:renxz@szu.edu.cn) [sunln@szu.edu.cn](mailto:sunln@szu.edu.cn)

**Abstract:** The MoS<sup>2</sup> incorporated into the 3D hierarchically N,S codoped carbon composites (MoS2@NSC) were prepared via a facile and scalable method by using the functional fluidic acrylonitrile telomer as carbon source and doping agent, and SiO2 as hard templates. The optimal MoS2@NSC-2 showed effective ORR catalytic activity with the initial potential of 0.93V and half-potential of 0.82V in basic electrolyte. In addition, MoS2@NSC-2 favored a fourelectron reduction process and demonstrated a superior durability and methanol tolerance, which could be ascribed to its unique porous structure that can effectively facilitate the transfer of electrolyte and O<sup>2</sup> molecules. The Mo-N<sup>x</sup> species are form due to the doping of N atoms into the crystal lattice of MoS2, which can further enhanced ORR catalytic activity. Our work affords a forward-looking strategy for designing the efficient and low-cost ORR catalysts on a large scale.

## **Introduction**

The exploitation of renewable energy and the development of new method/materials for renewable energy conversion and storage is a dramatic scientific challenge because of the tremendous energy demands in the next century. Due to the advantages of the high energy density and environmental friendliness, metal-air batteries and fuel cells are considered as one of the most promising energy storage and conversion systems. [\[1\]](#page-9-0) However, the relatively sluggish kinetics of oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) greatly hinders the practical application of these devices. [\[2\]](#page-9-1) Undoubtedly, precious metal based catalysts such as Pt, Pd ,Ru and their composite materials are generally the most effective catalysts toward ORR, but their high cost, poor durability, and low tolerance against methanol have prevented them from being used on a large scale. [\[3\]](#page-9-2) Therefore, seeking new, efficient and low-cost catalysts to replace precious metal catalysts is the key measure to break through the bottleneck of commercialization of fuel cells and metal-air batteries. [\[4\]](#page-9-3) Over the past decade, a large number of non-precious metal catalysts with ORR activity close to or higher than the commercial Pt-based catalysts have been explored. [\[5\]](#page-9-4) For example, transition metal-nitrogen-carbon (Fe-Nx-C), MOF-

based materials, single atoms catalysts, and heteroatom-doped porous carbon materials have been reported to effectively catalyze oxygen reduction reaction. [\[6\]](#page-9-5)

In recent years, transition metals have received wide attentions from researchers due to their high electrocatalytic activity, superior durability and low cost. [\[3a,](#page-9-2) [7\]](#page-9-6) Among them, the prototypical layered transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), especially the MoS2, has been extensively investigated in terms of their excellent chemical stability and superior electrocatalytic activity. [\[8\]](#page-9-7) MoS2is composed of three covalently bonded S-Mo-S atomic plane, and the two adjacent MoS<sup>2</sup> layer connected through a weak van der Waals force. [\[9\]](#page-9-8) It is reported that the intrinsic catalytic performance of MoS<sup>2</sup> for ORR can be effectively improved by modifying the electronic structure of MoS<sup>2</sup> by doping MoS2with heteroatom. [\[10\]](#page-9-9) For instance, Huang et al. have modulated the structure of MoS<sup>2</sup> by controllably incorporating oxygen atoms with MoS<sup>2</sup> ultrathin nanosheets via a simple treatment with H2O2. They found that the optimal ORR activity of O-MoS<sup>2</sup> catalyst has been dramatically enhanced because the Mo atoms were polarized by the adjacent highelectronegativity oxygen atoms and more positive charges at unsaturated Mo edges were produced, which is benefit to absorb oxygen molecules. In addition, they also found that the low-electronegativity P atoms doped into the plane of MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets were beneficial for the ORR activity of MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets. The P atoms in the plane of MoS<sup>2</sup> could provide more active sites to absorb oxygen molecules, which results in the enhancement of ORR activity. [\[12\]](#page-9-11) Another example is that Kibsgaard et al. have firstly prepared a contiguous large-area MoS<sup>2</sup> thin film with 3D mesoporous framework which can efficiently enhance HER catalytic activity by preferentially exposed more catalytically active sites. [\[8b\]](#page-9-12) Although reasonably changing the surface structure of MoS<sup>2</sup> can effectively improve its catalytic activity, some problems such as serious aggregation and low electrical conductivity of MoS2still seriously inhibit its application in catalysis.

One of the most effective way is to combine MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets with carbon materials, which can enhance the poor electronic conductivity as well as the structural stability of MoS2. [\[14\]](#page-9-14) For example, Zhao et al. have synthesized MoS2-based hybrid tubular nanostructures via a facilely self-assembly-

assisted method as efficient ORR catalyst with the onset potential and half-potential of 0.91V and 0.82V, respectively. [\[15\]](#page-9-15) Du et al. successfully confined the MoS<sup>2</sup> nanodots in 3D porous N-doped graphene frameworks, and they found that MoS<sup>2</sup> nanodots embedded in NGr could provide more exposed active sites with good accessibility to O<sup>2</sup> molecules, and the NGr could greatly improve the electronic conductivity of MoS2. When used as ORR catalysts, the optimal MoS<sup>2</sup> NDs/NGr-3 exhibited an onset potential and half-potential of 0.95V and 0.82V, respectively. [\[16\]](#page-9-16) Hao et al. reported a simple synthetic route to prepare the N-MoS2/C composites, which exhibited superior ORR activity and long-term stability for microbial fuel cells (MFCS). They attributed the improved electrochemical performance to the large number of exposed active sites, synergy among abundant defects, N-species, and high conductivity. [\[17\]](#page-9-17) Over the past decade, many works about MoS2 based materials have reported as efficient ORR catalysts. However, it is still a great challenge to synthesize the MoS<sup>2</sup> and heteroatom doped composites via a facile and scalable strategy.

Herein, we have developed a facile and scalable strategy to prepare the few-layer MoS2 embedded into N,S co-doped threedimensional porous carbon hybrids (MoS2@NSC) by using an effective and simple hard template method. During the synthesis process, functionalized fluidic acrylonitrile telomer (ANT) is used as the carbon source and doping agent, and the SiO<sup>2</sup> nanospheres, thioacetamide, and Molybdenyl acetylacetonate are used as the hard template, sulfur source, and molybdenum source, respectively. The porous structure of MoS2@NSC with a large number of interconnected pores and channels can greatly accelerate the oxygen and electrolyte transfer to the active sites, which can speed up the sluggish ORR kinetics. The amorphous carbon layer not only improves the conductivity of the MoS2@NSC, but also stabilizes the MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets and prevents them from stacking. A large amount of few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets embedded in the amorphous carbon can ensure abundant edge defect sites for ORR, which is benefit for the enhancement of electrocatalytic performance of MoS2@NSC. In addition, N,S-doping can increase the structural defects of carbon support, improving its ability to activate, absorb, and reduce the oxygen molecules. Furthermore, the N atoms can modify the electronic structure of MoS2and form the Mo-N<sup>x</sup> species that can conduce to the absorption of ORR-related species. Our work suggests a forward-looking strategy for the scalable synthesis of ORR electrocatalysts with low-cost and high catalytic activity.

# **Results and Discussion**

The synthesis strategy via a simple hard template method is demonstrated in Scheme 1. In the first step, a certain amount of TAA and Molybdenyl acetylacetonate were dissolved in acetone solution to form the precursor solution. Then, SiO<sup>2</sup> nanospheres with the diameter of 250nm and functionalized fluidic ANT were added into the mixture. After 3 hours of stirring, SiO2, TAA, ANT, and Molybdenyl acetylacetonate have been well mixed, and the acetone has been evaporated absolutely, which enabled the mixture to self-assemble into the structure of MoS<sup>2</sup> precursor. In this process, the color of the mixture gradually changed from light yellow to brown, indicating the formation of MoS<sup>2</sup> precursor. During the pre-oxidation process, the liquid low molecular

polymer (ANT) will undergo cyclization and be deeply crosslinked into solid substance with a stable structure.[\[18\]](#page-9-18) After the pre-oxidization and carbonization process, the lumpish MoS2@NSC was attained. Finally, 20%HF solution was used to etch the SiO<sup>2</sup> templates to acquire the 3D hierarchically porous MoS2@NSC products. In this experiment, the MoS2content can be readily modulated by adjusting the amount of TAA and Molybdenyl acetylacetonate. The MoS<sup>2</sup> content of various samples can be determined by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), as shown in Figure S1. Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) curves suggest that when 32mg, 64mg, and 96mg Molybdenyl acetylacetonate were added, different quantity of MoS<sup>2</sup> can be obtained in the MoS2@NSC composites, which was 8.0%, 14.0%, and 23.0%, respectively. Notably, the functionalized fluidic ANT can not only used as carbon source, but also used as linker and doping agent. The synthesis procedure of functionalized fluidic ANT is demonstrated in Figure S2. Importantly, this simple approach to synthesize MoS2@NSC can meet the increasingly growing demand for seeking new, efficient and low-cost bifunctional electrocatalysts.

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthesis procedure for MoS2@NSC

The SEM image (Figure 1a) shows the typical morphology of MoS2@NSC-2. It is clear that honeycomb-like structure is formed and the average diameter of macropores is about 250nm, which is in accordance with the size of SiO<sup>2</sup> nanospheres. The SEM image of SiO2nanospheres is shown in Figure S3. Figure 1b is the High-Resolution SEM image of MoS2@NSC-2, which shows that MoS2@NSC-2 has a 3D ordered interconnected nanostructure with macro-mesopores, and the thickness of the exposed edges of the network walls is about 10nm. The SEM results demonstrate that a 3D hierarchically macro-mesoporous carbon matrix have been successfully constructed by using a hard template method. The mesopores are formed due to the fact that the junctions between SiO2nanospheres are not completely infiltrated by ANT, which results in the formation of channels after the etching of SiO2.The TEM image of MoS2@NSC-2 is shown in Figure 1c. It displays a uniform overlapped spherical skeleton of MoS2@NSC-2, indicating the formation of 3D hierarchically porous structure, which is consistent with the SEM results. A large number of MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets are generate and embed into the thin-layer amorphous carbon wall, as shown in Figure 1d. In addition,

abundant few-layer MoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets are found in the High Resolution TEM images of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2, as shown in Figure 1e and Figure 1f. The TEM images of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-1 and MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-3 also display the same results, as shown in Figure S8 and Figure S9, respectively. These few-layer MoS2 nanosheets uniformly incorporated into the 3D hierarchically carbon wall can provide abundant edge active sites and thus result in the enhancment of the ORR catalytic activity. The inset image of Figure 1e shows the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of MoS2@NSC-2, illustrating the typical 2H phase of MoS2. The measured interlayer spacing of MoS2 in MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 composites is 0.70nm, which is larger than the typical interlayer spacing of MoS2 that has been reported in other works, as shown in Figure 1f.[19] The extension of interlayer spacing of MoS<sub>2</sub> layers may be account for the carbon molecular inserted into the MoS<sub>2</sub> interlamination. The amorphous carbon substrate can not only prevent MoS2 nanosheets from stacking/restacking, but also can enhance the conductivity of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2. Figure 1g shows the element distribution of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2, and we can observe that C, N, Mo, and S elements are homogenously overlapped along with the 3D porous nanostructure, which further demonstrate the successfully synthesis of MoS2@NSC-2. The SEM images and Energy-disperse X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) scanning elemental mapping of C, N, Mo, S of NSC,  $MoS_2@NSC-1$ ,  $MoS_2@NSC-3$ are also displayed in Figure S4, Figure S5, and Figure S6, respectively. It can be seen that all these composites maintain a 3D hierarchically macro-meso-microporous structure and a uniformly elemental distribution, indicating that morphology of the as-prepared NSC-based hybrids can be readily controlled.

**Figure 1.** Figure Caption. Figure 1. (a, b) SEM images of MoS $_2$ @NSC-2, (c-f) TEM images and (inset) associated SAED pattern, (g) The corresponding EDX scanning mapping of C, N, Mo and S elements of MoS $_2$ @NSC-2

The typical XRD patterns of NSC and MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 were shown in Figure 2a. For MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 sample, except for the peaks at 23.5° and 42.5° that are attributed to the carbon phase, other identified diffraction peaks are well consistent with the 2H phase MoS<sub>2</sub> (PDF#37-1492). The different peaks that are located at 33.0°, 39.9°, and 58.8° can be assigned to the (100), (103), and (110) crystalline planes of MoS<sub>2</sub>, respectively.<sup>[20]</sup> However, the typical diffraction peak located at about 14°, which can be assigned to the (002) plane of MoS<sub>2</sub> that has the well-stacked layer structure, didn't appeared. But two new peaks at

 $8.6^{\circ}$  and  $17.7^{\circ}$  emerge, implying that abundant few-layer MoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets have been synthesized in MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2, which is in accordance with the TEM results.<sup>[21]</sup> The enlarged XRD was shown in Figure S7.

The specific surface area (BET) and pore structure of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 were characterized by nitrogen desorptionadsorption measurement, as shown in Figure 2b. MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 shows a typical IV isotherm, which exhibits a H<sub>4</sub>-type hysteresis loop, implying the existence of macro-meso-microporous structure, which is agreement well with the SEM and TEM results. According to the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller mode, the specific surface area can be calculated to 648.6 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. The inset image of Figure 2b shows the pore size distribution of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 complex, which reveals that the pore size of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-2 distribute in the range of 1~250 nm with total pore volume of 0.828 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. Interestingly, the value of the t-plot micropore volume is as high as 0.166 cm3 g-1, which can be attributed to the release of gas that released by the structural evolution of ANT during the carbonization process. BET and pore size distribution indicated that we have successfully constructed a 3D hierarchically macro-meso-microporous structure by using SiO2 as hard template and functional fluidic ANT as carbon source. We also systematically characterized the BET of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-1 and MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-3, and the results are shown in the Figure S10. Clearly, the specific surface area of MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-1 and MoS<sub>2</sub>@NSC-3 can be calculated to 690.4 m<sup>2</sup> g-1 and 600.8 m<sup>2</sup> g-1, respectively. The super-large specific area can offer a large amount of active sites for ORR, and the mesopores and micropores can efficiently facilitate the transportation of O2 and electrolyte, which is benefit to accelerate the sluggish kinetics of ORR.

**Figure 2.** (a) XRD; (b)  $N_2$  desorption and adsorption curves of  $MoS_2@NSC-2$  and the corresponding pore size distribution (inset image); High-resolution of (c) S 2p (d) Mo 3d (e) N 1s XPS spectra of  $MoS_2@NSC-2$ ; (f) Raman spectra, the inset image shows the  $E^1_{2q}$  and  $A_{1q}$  vibrational modes of  $MoS_2$ 

The chemical information and surface electronic states of  $MoS_2@NSC$  and NSC composites were further studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. As shown in Figure S11 and Figure S8a, the peaks of S 2p, C 1s, Mo 3d, Mo 3p, N 1s, and O 1s can be clearly observed in the XPS survey spectra, which are consistent with SEM-mapping data, demonstrating the successful preparation of NSC-based composites. The high-resolution S 2p spectra of  $MoS_2@NSC-2$  are shown in Figure 2c. It is clear that four peaks can be observed at the binding energy of 162.4eV, 163.6eV, 165.1eV, and 168.6eV, which corresponding to S  $2p_{3/2}$ , S  $2p_{1/2}$ , C-S, and  $SO_x$ , respectively. However, for the high-resolution S 2p spectra of NSC, only three peaks that belong to C-S and  $SO_x$  can be found, as shown in

Figure S12d. Figure S12b shows the high-resolution C 1s spectra of NSC. The deconvolution of the XPS spectrum of Mo 3d of MoS2@NSC-2 shows four peaks, and the peaks located at 229.5eV and 232.6eV is belong to the 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Mo4+ of MoS2, indicating that Mo6+ ion have been the successfully reduced, as shown in Figure 2d. In addition, a small peak that is ascribed to the 3d5/2 of Mo6+ appear at 235.6eV. Furthermore, another peak at 226.9eV is related to S 2s species of MoS2. The high-resolution N 1s spectra of MoS2@NSC-2 in figure 2e could be deconvoluted to four individual components peaks centered at 395.5eV, 398.3eV, 399.2eV, and 400.9eV, corresponding to Mo-Nx, pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N, respectively. Nevertheless, the deconvoluted N 1s spectra of NSC reveal four individual components, which is related to pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, graphitic N, and quaternary N, as shown in Figure S12c. The XPS spectrum of MoS2@NSC-1 and MoS2@NSC-3 are shown in Figure S13 and Figure S14, respectively. N atoms coordinated with Mo atoms to form Mo-N<sup>x</sup> demonstrates the successfully doping of N atoms into the lattice of MoS2.

The in suit doping of N atoms by using functional fluidic ANT as doping agent can efficiently modify the electronic geometric structure of C and Mo atoms, thereby achieving the purpose of enhancing the ORR catalytic activity. For example, it has been reported N-doping can not only accelerate the oxygen activation, adsorption and reduction behavior of catalyst, but also can enhance the conductivity of carbon support and accelerate electron transfer. Furthermore, the doping of N atoms into the crystal lattice of MoS<sup>2</sup> can cause structural defects in MoS2, thereby further improving the ORR catalytic activity. [\[23\]](#page-9-23) A lot of works have proved that Mo-N<sup>x</sup> can act as active sites for ORR and favor the four-electron pathway. For example, Mu et al. reported that Mo-N coupling centers perform ORR through a 4 electron process. They attribute the improved ORR performances to the electron distribution induced by the active Mo-N coupling, which can promote the oxygen absorption and dissociation.[\[24\]](#page-9-24) Additional DFT computations have revealed that N atoms doped in to the MoS<sup>2</sup> monolayer can reduce the band gap and enhance the spin density of MoS2, indicating the N atoms doped can efficiently tune the electronic properties of MoS2. Therefore, the absorption energies of the related oxygenated species (O2, OOH, OH, O, H2O) on N-doped MoS<sup>2</sup> could be optimized and lead to the lower energy barriers in ORR. Consequently, we infer to believe that the in suit doping of N atoms by using functional fluidic ANT as doping agent can efficiently modify the electronic geometric structure of C and Mo atoms, thereby achieving the purpose of enhancing the ORR catalytic activity.[\[10\]](#page-9-9)

Raman spectroscopy was used to analyzed the structure of the carbon support and few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets, as shown in Figure 2f. It is well known that D band is contributed to the defects and disorder of carbon materials, while G band is related to graphitization of the carbon materials. The value of ID/I<sup>G</sup> can represent the amount of the current defects in the graphitic structure. In this study, the value of ID/IGof MoS2@NSC-2 is 1.03, which is larger than the value of ID/I<sup>G</sup> of NSC, indicating that MoS<sup>2</sup> imbedded into the carbon layer caused more defects. The E 1 2g peak at 378.4 cm-1 is connected with the in-plane vibrational mode and A1g peak at 401.0 cm-1 signify the out-of-plane vibrational mode of layered MoS<sup>2</sup> structure. It has been found that the peak separation of E<sup>1</sup> 2g and A<sup>1</sup> <sup>g</sup> could be determined by

the stacking layers of MoS2. Herein, the smaller peak separation of MoS2@NSC-2 than bulk MoS2sample verified the few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> structure of MoS2@NSC-2, as shown in the inset image of Figure 2f and Figure S16. [\[25\]](#page-9-25) In addition, it is reported that the full-widths at half maximum (FWHM) of A1g and E<sup>1</sup> 2g can reveal more details about the layer number of MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets. [\[26\]](#page-9-26) In our work, the full-widths at half maximum (FWHM) of A1g and E 1 2g of MoS2@MmC-2 are calculated to 13.0cm-1 and 15cm-1 , respectively. But for the bulk MoS2, the full-widths at half maximum (FWHM) of A1g and E<sup>1</sup> 2g of are 7.8cm-1 and 8.3cm-1 , respectively. Therefore, such progressive softening of A1g and E 1 2g bands indicated the formation of abundant few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets in the MoS2@NSC-2 composites.

**Figure 3.** Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) of (a) MoS2@NSC-1, (b) MoS2@NSC-2, (c) MoS2@NSC-3, (d) NSC.

The ORR activities of various samples were first attained by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements on RRDE in O2 saturated 0.1M KOH aqueous solution at a scan rate of 5mV s-1 and different rotation rates from 400rpm to 2000rpm. The LSV curves of MoS2@NSC-1, MoS2@NSC-2, MoS2@NSC-3, and NSC are shown in Figure 3a, Figure 3b, Figure 3c, and Figure 3d, respectively. With the increasement of rotation rate, the diffusion rate of O2enhanced, and finally lead to the increasement of limiting diffusion current density. The limiting diffusion current densities of MoS2@NSC-2 at different rotation rate are considerably higher than the limiting diffusion current densities of MoS2@NSC-1, MoS2@NSC-3, and NSC, indicating a higher ORR activity of MoS2@NSC-2 composites.

In order to further study the ORR kinetics of various catalysts, the corresponding quantitative Koutecky-Levich plots at various rotation rates have been calculated, as shown in Figure 4. The electron transfer number (n) of ORR, which represent the first-order reaction kinetics towards the concentration of dissolved O2, can be obtained from the linearity of K-L plots. Evidently, the relationship between the reciprocal current density (1/j) and reciprocal square root of the rotation speed (ω-1/2) display a good linearity at the potential range of 0.70V-0.50V. For the MoS2@NSC-1 and MoS2@NSC-3 modified electrode, the electron transfer numbers are 3.20-3.65 and 3.10-3.20, respectively. It can be inferred that these two electrodes have suffered an ORR catalytic process in which combined with two-electron reaction route and four-electron

reaction route, as shown in Figure 4a and Figure 4c. In addition, the electron transfer number of NSC is 2.69-2.75, suggesting the two-electron process for the ORR, as shown in Figure 4d. However, for the MoS2@NSC-2 electrode, the n value is calculated to be 4.12-4.15, which is much higher than MoS2@NSC-1, MoS2@NSC-3, and NSC, demonstrating fourelectron selectivity for MoS2@NSC-2 composites in 0.1M KOH solution. The consequence of LSV and K-L equation suggest that the ORR selectivity can be change from two-electron to four electrons reaction pathway by the MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets embedded into the N,S co-doped carbon support. In addition, it also indicates a higher ORR activity of MoS2@NSC-2 composites than MoS2@NSC-1, MoS2@NSC-3, and NSC.

**Figure 4.** K-L plots at different potentials of (a) MoS2@NSC-1; (b) MoS2@NSC-2; (c) MoS2@NSC-3; (d) NSC

Cyclic Voltammetry (CV) was conducted to further gain insights into the ORR activities of MoS2@NSC-based composites, as displayed in Figure 5a. As for comparison, we also measured the ORR performance of commercial 20%Pt/C catalyst. It is obvious that the CV curves of all samples display a distinct peak, which is corresponding to the oxygen reduction reaction. The peak potential of commercial 20%Pt/C catalysts is 0.86V, indicating the best catalytic activity. The peak potential of the MoS2@NSC-2 electrode (0.81V) is much higher than those of MoS2@NSC-1 (0.76V), MoS2@NSC-3 (0.77V), and NSC (0.75V), suggesting that MoS2@NSC-2 have better ORR catalytic activity. Figure 5b shows the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of various samples at a rotating speed of 1600rpm. Compared with other catalysts in this work, MoS2@NSC-2 catalyst displayed a more positive initial potential (0.93V) and half-potential (0.82V), which is only 30mV and 20mV negative shift compare with commercial 20%Pt/C catalyst, respectively. The onset potential (0.84V) and half-potential (0.77V) of NSC catalyst is more negative than MoS2@NSC-3 and MoS2@NSC-1, suggesting that MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets incorporated with NSC can further boost the ORR activity. However, the ORR performance of MoS2@NSC-1 is much poorer than MoS2@NSC-2 catalyst due to its insufficient catalytic active sites of MoS2@NSC-1. In addition, the excess MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets in the MoS2@NSC-3 sample can easily decrease the electronic conductivity of the whole electrode because of the Semiconductor property of 2H

phase MoS2. The superfluous MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets in MoS2@NSC-3 are easier to stack/restack together and form a large number of multilayer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets, resulting in the instability of material structure and the reduction of active sites for ORR, which finally leads to the poor ORR catalytic performance. Moreover, the diffusion-limiting current density of 4.3mA cm-2 for MoS2@NSC-2 is larger than those of MoS2@NSC-1 (4.1 mA cm-), MoS2@NSC-3 (3.3 mA cm-2 ), and NSC (3.03 mA cm-2 ). Therefore, MoS2@NSC-2 exhibits the best ORR catalytic activity, which is similar to that of Pt/C catalysts. In addition, the ORR activity of MoS2@NSC-2 catalysts superior to most of representative state-of-art MoS2-based ORR catalysts, as shown in Table S1. The Tafel slops (Figure 5c) of MoS2@NSC-1, MoS2@NSC-2, MoS2@NSC-3, NSC, and commercial 20%Pt/C are 95.7mV dec-1 , 87.4mV dec-1 , 93.2mV dec-1 , 103.1mV dec-1 and 81.1mV dec-1 , respectively, which reveal a more favorable kinetic process of oxygen reduction reaction with MoS2@NSC-2 that is comparable to the commercial Pt/C catalysts. To further understand the ORR activity on the catalysts, we have used a rotating-ring disk electrode (RRDE) with a Pt ring electrode to record the ring current for detecting the peroxide species. As shown in the insect image of Figure 5d, the disk current and ring current of MoS2@NSC-2 formed in ORR were recorded. The H2O<sup>2</sup> yield and electron transfer number (n) can be calculated by the equation (4) and (5), respectively. As shown in Figure 5d. the H2O2% of MoS2@NSC-2 is no more than 8% and the electron transfer number are 3.98-4.0 at potentials from 0.2-0.8V. Once again, these results indicate MoS2@NSC-2 catalyst follow a four-electron ORR process, which is in accordance with the consequence of K-L plots.

**Figure 5.** (a) CV curves; (b) LSV curves at a speed of 1600rpm; (c) The corresponding Tafel plots; (d)The generation peroxides (%) and electron transfer number, inset image shows the disk and ring current; (e) Durability test; (f) Chronoamperometric response, the arrow manifest the injection of 10% 1 M methanol.

The long-term durability and the resistance to the methanol crossover effects of catalysts are of great significance for its practical application. The long-term durability of MoS2@NSC-2 was evaluated by measuring its current-time chronoamperometric response at 0.76V in O2-saturated 0.1M KOH at 1600rpm for 10000s. As shown in Figure 5e, after measuring for 10000s, the total current attenuation for MoS2@NSC-2 was only 7.0%, much lower than that of commercial Pt/C catalysts, which is 23%. The durability test demonstrates that the durability of MoS2@NSC-2 is surpass to that of commercial 20%Pt/C catalyst in alkaline solution, and that the MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets and Mo-N<sup>x</sup> species in MoS2@NSC-2 catalysts are quite stable in alkaline environment. The improved electrocatalytic durability of MoS2@NSC-2 may ascribe to the favorable stability of the porous carbon structure, which effectively prevents the stack/restack of the large amount fewlayer MoS2 nanosheets. The methanol tolerance of MoS2@NSC-2 and 20%Pt/C were further assessed by chronoamperometry. After the introduction of 1M methanol, it can be observed that the current density of MoS2@NSC-2 composites only change slightly, which is negligible, and the response regained very fast, shown in Figure 5f. In contrast, the current density of commercial 20%Pt/C catalysts drops sharply due to the oxidation of methanol. Therefore, it is obvious that the methanol tolerance of MoS2@NSC-2 composites is much superior to commercial 20% Pt/C catalysts.

**Figure 6.** CV curves of (a) MoS2@NSC-2 and (b) NSC in the potential range of 0.965-1.15V vs RHE at various scan rates (10-80 mV s-1 ); (c) plot of the corresponding current densities measured at 1.03V vs RHE as a function of scan rates.

The Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) of all samples were characterized in detail and shown in Figure S17. Obviously, Nyquist plots illustrated that the NSC sample has the minimum semicircle radius, which represents the smallest electron transfer resistance. With the increasement of MoS2, the electron transfer resistance of MoS2@NSC-1, MoS2@NSC-2, and MoS2@NSC-3 increased in turn due to the semiconductor properties of 2H phase MoS2. According to the literature, the pure 2H phase MoS<sup>2</sup> has large electron transfer resistance.[\[27\]](#page-9-27) However, in our work, the MoS2@NSC composites exhibited small electron transfer resistance, which can be ascribed to the incorporation of NSC.

The electrocatalytically active surface areas (ECSA), which is proportional to the double-layer capacitance (Cdl), is a key parameter to estimate intrinsic catalytic activities of catalysts. [\[28\]](#page-9-28) The Cdl can be obtained by measuring the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves at different scan rates (10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 mV s-1 ) in the potential range of 0.965-1.15V vs RHE, as shown in Figure 6a and Figure 6b. By plotting the current densities against the various scan rates at a given potential (1.03V vs RHE), the slop of the linearly fitted curve which represent the value of Cdl is acquired, as shown in Figure 6c. The Cdl of MoS2@NSC-2 composites are calculated to 21.9 mF cm-2 which is four times larger than the Cdl of NSC (5.3 mF cm-2 ). The Cdl of MoS2@NSC-1 and MoS2@NSC-3 are 16.3 mF cm-2 and 18.3 mF cm-2 , respectively, as shown in Figure S18 and Figure S19. The increase in ECSA of MoS2@NSC-2 indicates the abundant obtainable intrinsic active sites were produced on MoS2@NSC-2, leading to the improvement of catalytic performance. The high ECSA of MoS2@NSC-2 can be ascribed to the large amount of few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets can provide luxuriant edge active sites for catalytic ORR. In addition, its large specific surface area and the 3D porous structure can efficiently facilitate the electrolyte and oxygen diffuse to the active sites.

Based on the above analysis, the improved catalytic activity of MoS2@NSC-2 can be attribute to the factors as followings. Firstly, the 3D hierarchically macro-meso-micropores coexisting structure can not only increase the specific surface area of MoS2@NSC-2, but also immensely promote electrolyte and oxygen diffusion, which can greatly improve the mass transfer efficiency. Secondly, doping N,S elements into the carbon structure is beneficial to improve the catalytic activity of ORR. Thirdly, the doping of N atoms into the crystals lattice of MoS<sup>2</sup> produces Mo-N<sup>x</sup> bonds, resulting in the improvement of the intrinsic activity of MoS<sup>2</sup> for ORR. Fourthly, a large amount of few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets embedded in the 3D carbon framework can provide plentiful edge active sites for ORR. Furthermore, the N,S co-doped carbon can not only effectively increase the conductivity of MoS<sup>2</sup> but also prevent the few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets from stack/restack, which greatly improve the electrochemical stability of MoS2@NSC-2.

# **Conclusion**

In summery, 3D hierachilly macro-meso-micropores coexisted N,S co-doped MoS2@C composites (MoS2@NSC) have been successfully prepared as high-performance ORR catalysts by using a facile and scalable method. The optimised hybrid catalyst MoS2@NSC-2 exhibits sinificant ORR onset potential of 0.93V and half-potential of 0.82V, and a lower tafel slop of 87.4 mV dec-1 , which is in close proximity to 20%Pt/C of 81.1 mV dec-1 . In addition, the superior tolerance against methonal and enhanced durability of MoS2@NSC-2 make it become one of the most promising catalysts that are suitable for commercial application. Importantly, MoS2@NSC-2 favors a four-electron reduction pathway in alkaline aqueous solution, indicating the fast ORR kenitics. The unique structure of large number of few-layer MoS<sup>2</sup> nanosheets imbedded into 3D hierachilly N,S co-doped porous carbon results in the improvement of catalytic activity for ORR. Our work offers a promising strategy for massively designing the high-performance

ORR electrocatalysts, which will further facilitate the develement of feul cells and metal-air batteries.

# **Experimental Section**

#### **Chemicals**

Chemicals including Ammonium hydroxide solution (25%), anhydrous ethanol, acetone, tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS), 3-mercapto propionic acid, acrylonitrile, azodiisobutyronitrile, HF solution (40%), Molybdenyl acetylacetonate, thioacetamide (TAA) are purchase from Aladdin Ltd. (Shanghai, China).

### **Synthesis of SiO<sup>2</sup> nanospheres**

The SiO<sup>2</sup> nanospheres were synthesized by the modified Stober method. [\[29\]](#page-9-29) Typically,82ml ammonia solution, 75ml anhydrous ethanol and 4ml deionized water were put into a beaker and stirred for 30min at room temperature. Then, 7ml TEOS were added into the mixture drop by drop. 5 min later, the mixture became cloudy because of TEOS hydrolysis. SiO<sup>2</sup> nanospheres can be obtained by centrifuging the mixture and washing it several times with deionized water and anhydrous ethanol after 4 hours of stirring.

#### **Synthesis of functionalized fluidic ANT**

In a typical process, [\[18b,](#page-9-30) [30\]](#page-9-31) acrylonitrile, azodiisobutyronitrile, and 3 mercapto propionic acid were added to a three-necked flask at a molar ratio of 1:0.01:0.8 and reacted at 60 °C in nitrogen atmosphere for 24 hours under vigorous stirring. Then, the reacted mixture was subjected to vacuum distillation at 140°C to remove 3-mercapto propionic and the functionalized fluidic ANT was finally attained.

#### **Synthesis of honeycomb-like MoS2@NSC catalysts**

Firstly, 146 mg thioacetamide and 64 mg Molybdenyl acetylacetonate were dissolved in 5 ml acetone and stirred for 12 hours in room temperature. Secondly, 250 mg ANT and 1 g SiO<sup>2</sup> were added to the mixture and stirred vigorously for 3 hours to completely evaporate the acetone. The mixture was then pre-oxidized at 180 °C for 4 hours and at 240°C for 4 hours in a muffle furnace at a heating rate of 2 °C/min. Afterwards, the mixture was carbonized at 900°C in N<sup>2</sup> atmosphere for 3h at a heating rate of 2°C/min. After etching SiO<sup>2</sup> templates with 20% HF solution, the MoS2@NSC-2 can be attained. By changing the amount of Molybdenyl acetylacetonate to 32 mg and 96 mg, thioacetamide to 73 mg and 219 mg, it can be named MoS2@NSC-1 and MoS2@NSC-3, respectively. In addition, NSC was synthesized by the same manner without adding thioacetamide and Molybdenyl acetylacetonate.

#### **Synthesis of bulk MoS<sup>2</sup>**

The bulk MoS<sup>2</sup> was synthesized by hydrothermal method. Typically, 5 mmol Na2MoO4·2H2O and 20 mmol thioacetamide were dissolved into 30 ml deionized water and stirred for 1 hours. The mixture was then transferred to 50 ml Teflon lined stainless steel autoclave and heated to 180 °C for 12 hours. After the precursor was centrifuged and washed with deionized water, and then heated to 700 °C for 2 hours in N<sup>2</sup> atmosphere, finally the bulk MoS<sup>2</sup> was obtained.

### **Materials analysis**

XRD (Empyrean) with Cu Kαradiation was used to investigate the crystallite structure of the samples. The valence states of surface elements of various sample were investigated X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, K-Alpha+, UK). The morphology and energydispersed X-ray mapping of those samples were conducted by SEM (FESEM, JEOL JSM-7800F) and TEM (JEM-2100). The N<sup>2</sup> adsorption– desorption was performed on a BELSORP-max instrument (ASAP2460, USA). The Raman spectrum was tested by a DXR microscope (INVIA, Renishaw, UK).

#### **Electrochemical analysis**

We used a three-electrode system that was conducted by an electrochemical workstation (CHI760E) to test the electrochemical performance. The rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE, ALS, Japan) measurement was tested in the O<sup>2</sup> saturated 0.1M KOH electrolyte. Before using, the RRDE, which was constructed by a Glassy carbon disk (4mm in diameter) and a Pt ring (inner/outer-ring diameter:5.0/7.0mm), was burnish by 0.5 μm Al2O3. A KCl saturated Ag/AgCl electrode and a Pt wire electrode were used as reference electrode and counter electrode, respectively. The working electrode was prepared by dispersing 5 mg MoS2@NSC sample in 1 ml solution containing 0.10 ml Nafion (wt5%, DuPont) and 0.90 ml ethanol, and then obtaining a homogeneous electrocatalytic ink after ultrasonication for 30 min. And then, 10μl the catalyst ink was applied into the RRDE drop by drop, leading to the catalyst loading of 0.396 mg cm-2 . A suspension of 20%Pt was prepared as by the same procedure. The results of Cyclic voltammogram (CV) and linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) were measured at a scan rate of 5mV/s. All the measured potential was converted to a potential versus RHE by the following equation.

$$E \text{ (vs. RHE)} = E \text{ (vs. Ag/AgCl)} + 0.197 + 0.059PH$$
 (1)

The LSV curves at different rotational speeds (400, 800, 1200, 1600, 2000rpm) were obtained by RRDE test. The electron transfer number of ORR reaction was calculated according to following formula:

$$\frac{1}{i} = \frac{1}{i_k} + \frac{1}{i_d} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{-1/2}} + \frac{1}{i_k}$$
 (2)

in which

$$B = 0.2nFC_0(D_0)^{2/3}v^{-1/6}$$
 (3)

Where j and j<sup>k</sup> are the measured current density and the kinetic current density, respectively. ω is the angular velocity of the disk and n is the electron transfer number in ORR. F is the Faraday constant (F=96485C/mol). The bulk concentration of O<sup>2</sup> (C0) can be measured to 1.2ⅹ10 -6 mol cm-3 in 0.1M KOH electrolyte. ν is the kinematic viscosity, and D<sup>0</sup> is the diffusion coefficient of O2.

The electron transfer number and the corresponding peroxide yield (H2O2) can be calculated by using the following formulas according to the measured ring current and disk current.

$$\mathbf{n} = \mathbf{4} \times \frac{I_{disk}}{I_{disk} + \frac{I_{ring}}{N}} \tag{4}$$

$$peroxide\% = 100 \times \frac{\frac{2I_{ring}}{N}}{I_{disk} + I_{ring}/N}$$
 (5)

The N represents the efficiency of the ring electrode and the measured value here is 0.43.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21671136 and 21471100), Shenzhen Science and Technology Project Program (JCYJ20180305125729925, JCYJ20170818095924259, JCYJ20170817094552356).

**Keywords:** MoS2nanosheets • N, S co-doped carbon composite • scalable syntheses • ORR catalysts

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[1] a) P. Zhang, Y. Zhao, X. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 2921-3004; b) D. Kong, H. He, Q. Song, B. Wang, W. Lv, Q.-H. Yang, L. Zhi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 3320-3325; c) X. Ren, M. Huang, S. Luo, Y. Li, L. Deng, H. Mi, L. Sun, P. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 10856-10867; d) J. Yang, D. Ma, Y. Li, P. Zhang, H. Mi, L. Deng, L. Sun, X. Ren, *J. Power Sources* **2017**, *360*, 215-220; e) Y. Chen, S. Ji, S. Zhao, W. Chen, J. Dong, W.-C. Cheong, R. Shen, X. Wen, L. Zheng, A. I. Rykov, S. Cai, H. Tang, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*.
- <span id="page-9-1"></span>[2] a) Y. Li, S. Lin, X. Ren, H. Mi, P. Zhang, L. Sun, L. Deng, Y. Gao, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *253*, 445-454; b) W. Zhong, J. Chen, P. Zhang, L. Deng, L. Yao, X. Ren, Y. Li, H. Mi, L. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 16605-16610.
- <span id="page-9-2"></span>[3] a) M. Shao, Q. Chang, J. P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, *Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 3594-3657; b) S. Guo, S. Zhang, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem.* **2013**, *52*, 8526-8544.
- <span id="page-9-3"></span>[4] a) N. Feng, P. He, H. Zhou, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1502303; b) G. A. Ferrero, K. Preuss, A. Marinovic, A. B. Jorge, N. Mansor, D. J. Brett, A. B. Fuertes, M. Sevilla, M. M. Titirici, *ACS nano* **2016**, *10*, 5922-5932; c) K. Yuan, X. Zhuang, H. Fu, G. Brunklaus, M. Forster, Y. Chen, X. Feng, U. Scherf, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6858-6863.
- <span id="page-9-4"></span>[5] Y. P. Zhu, C. Guo, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2017**, *50*, 915-923.
- <span id="page-9-5"></span>[6] a) A. Han, B. Wang, A. Kumar, Y. Qin, J. Jin, X. Wang, C. Yang, B. Dong, Y. Jia, J. Liu, X. Sun, *Small Methods* **2019**, *3*, 1800471; b) R. Dun, M. Hao, Y. Su, W. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 12518-12525; c) Q. Cheng, L. Yang, L. Zou, Z. Zou, C. Chen, Z. Hu, H. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 6864-6871; d) W.-J. Liu, Y.-Q. Wen, J.-W. Wang, D.-C. Zhong, J.-B. Tan, T.-B. Lu, *J. Mater. Chem. A*  **2019**, *7*, 9587-9592.
- <span id="page-9-6"></span>[7] a) H. Yoon, S. Lee, S. Oh, H. Park, S. Choi, M. Oh, *Small* **2019**, *15*, e1805232; b) J. Wu, H. Zhou, Q. Li, M. Chen, J. Wan, N. Zhang, L. Xiong, S. Li, B. Y. Xia, G. Feng, M. Liu, L. Huang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1900149; c) Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780-786; d) J. Liang, R. F. Zhou, X. M. Chen, Y. H. Tang, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 6074-6079; e) K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 2404-2412; f) J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, C. Chen, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C.-J. Chen, R.-S. Liu, C. Wang, K. Yan, Y. Li, G. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 20118-20126.
- <span id="page-9-12"></span><span id="page-9-7"></span>[8] a) Y. Li, H. Wang, L. Xie, Y. Liang, G. Hong, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 7296-7299; b) J. Kibsgaard, Z. Chen, B. N. Reinecke, T. F. Jaramillo, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 963-969; c) K. Zhao, W. Gu, L. Zhao, C. Zhang, W. Peng, Y. Xian, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *169*, 142-149.
- <span id="page-9-8"></span>[9] J. Xie, J. Zhang, S. Li, F. Grote, X. Zhang, H. Zhang, R. Wang, Y. Lei, B. Pan, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 17881-17888.
- <span id="page-9-9"></span>[10] H. Zhang, Y. Tian, J. Zhao, Q. Cai, Z. Chen, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *225*, 543-550.
- <span id="page-9-10"></span>[11] H. Huang, X. Feng, C. Du, S. Wu, W. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 16050-16056.
- <span id="page-9-11"></span>[12] H. Huang, X. Feng, C. Du, W. Song, *Chem. Commun.* **2015**, *51*, 7903-7906.
- <span id="page-9-13"></span>[13] a) X. Zou, Y. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 5148-5180; b) Q. Liu, Z. Wu, Z. Ma, S. Dou, J. Wu, L. Tao, X. Wang, C. Ouyang, A. Shen, S. Wang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *177*, 298-303; c) J. Wu, X. Li, H. Zeng, Y. Xue, F. Chen, Z. Xue, Y. Ye, X. Xie, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 7897-7906.
- <span id="page-9-14"></span>[14] a) Z. Li, A. Ottmann, Q. Sun, A. K. Kast, K. Wang, T. Zhang, H.-P. Meyer, C. Backes, C. Kübel, R. R. Schröder, J. Xiang, Y. Vaynzof, R. Klingeler, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 7553-7564; b) H. Jin, J. Wang, D. Su, Z. Wei, Z. Pang, Y. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 2688-2694.
- <span id="page-9-15"></span>[15] C. Zhao, Y. Zhang, L. Chen, C. Yan, P. Zhang, J. M. Ang, X. Lu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 23731-23739.
- <span id="page-9-16"></span>[16] C. Du, H. Huang, X. Feng, S. Wu, W. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 7616-7622.
- <span id="page-9-17"></span>[17] L. Hao, J. Yu, X. Xu, L. Yang, Z. Xing, Y. Dai, Y. Sun, J. Zou, *J. Power Sources* **2017**, *339*, 68-79.
- <span id="page-9-30"></span><span id="page-9-18"></span>[18] a) Y. Chang, F. Hong, J. Liu, M. Xie, Q. Zhang, C. He, H. Niu, J. Liu, *Carbon* **2015**, *87*, 424-433; b) Y. Chang, F. Hong, C. He, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 4794-4799.
- <span id="page-9-19"></span>[19] Z. Deng, H. Jiang, Y. Hu, Y. Liu, L. Zhang, H. Liu, C. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*.
- <span id="page-9-20"></span>[20] J. Kong, C. Zhao, Y. Wei, X. Lu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 24279-24287.
- <span id="page-9-21"></span>[21] S. K. Park, J. Lee, S. Bong, B. Jang, K. D. Seong, Y. Piao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 19456-19465.
- <span id="page-9-22"></span>[22] X. Wang, J. Tian, X. Cheng, R. Na, D. Wang, Z. Shan, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 35953-35962.
- <span id="page-9-23"></span>[23] L. Yang, Z. Cai, L. Hao, L. Ran, X. Xu, Y. Dai, S. Pan, B. Jing, J. Zou, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *283*, 448-458.
- <span id="page-9-24"></span>[24] I. S. Amiinu, Z. Pu, X. Liu, K. A. Owusu, H. G. R. Monestel, F. O. Boakye, H. Zhang, S. Mu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1702300.
- <span id="page-9-25"></span>[25] C. Lee, H. Yan, L. E. Brus, T. F. Heinz, J. Hone, S. Ryu, *ACS nano* **2010**, *4*, 2695-2700.
- <span id="page-9-26"></span>[26] H. S. S. Ramakrishna Matte, A. Gomathi, A. K. Manna, D. J. Late, R. Datta, S. K. Pati, C. N. R. Rao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2010**, *49*, 4059-4062.
- <span id="page-9-27"></span>[27] a) K. Pramoda, U. Gupta, M. Chhetri, A. Bandyopadhyay, S. K. Pati, C. N. R. Rao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 10664- 10672; b) N. H. Attanayake, S. C. Abeyweera, A. C. Thenuwara, B. Anasori, Y. Gogotsi, Y. Sun, D. R. Strongin, *J. Mater. Chem. A*  **2018**, *6*, 16882-16889; c) H. Huang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, B. Huang, J. Cai, S. Lin, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2018**, *43*, 8290-8297.
- <span id="page-9-28"></span>[28] a) X. Sun, X. Yang, H. Xiang, H. Mi, P. Zhang, X. Ren, Y. Li, X. Li, *Electrochim. Acta* **2019**, *296*, 964-971; b) D. Wang, L. Xiao, P. Yang, Z. Xu, X. Lu, L. Du, O. Levin, L. Ge, X. Pan, J. Zhang, M. An, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 11007-11015.
- <span id="page-9-29"></span>[29] T. Gholami, M. Salavati-Niasari, M. Bazarganipour, E. Noori, *Superlattices Microstruct.* **2013**, *61*, 33-41.
- <span id="page-9-31"></span>[30] S. Lin, Y. Li, S. Luo, X. Ren, L. Deng, H. Mi, P. Zhang, L. Sun, Y. Gao, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *272*, 33-43.