---
source: Jiang 等 - 2024 - In situ Activation of Molecular Oxygen at Intermetallic Spacing‐Optimized Iron Network‐Like Sites fo.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 31.691s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:03:42.992849Z
---

# **In situ Activation of Molecular Oxygen at Intermetallic Spacing-Optimized Iron Network-Like Sites for Boosting Electrocatalytic Oxygen Reduction**

*Jingjing Jiang, Wanlin Zhou,\* Yaling Jiang, Xu Zhang, Qizheng An, Fengchun Hu, Huijuan Wang, Kun Zheng, Mikhail A. Soldatov, Shiqiang Wei, and Qinghua Liu\**

**The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalyzed by transition-metal single-atom catalysts (SACs) is promising for practical applications in energy-conversion devices, but great challenges still remain due to the sluggish kinetics of O**═**O cleavage. Herein, a kind of high-density iron network-like sites catalysts are constructed with optimized intermetallic distances on an amino-functionalized carbon matrix (Fe-HDNSs). Quasi-in situ soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy and in situ synchrotron infrared characterizations demonstrate that the optimized intermetallic distances in Fe-HDNSs can in situ activate the molecular oxygen by fast electron compensation through the hybridized Fe 3***d***‒O 2***p***, which efficiently facilitates the cleavage of the O**═**O bond to \*O species and highly suppresses the side reactions for an accelerated kinetics of the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR. As a result, the well-designed Fe-HDNSs catalysts exhibit superior performances with a half-wave potential of 0.89 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and a kinetic current density of 72 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2@0.80 V versus RHE, exceeding most of the noble-metal-free ORR catalysts. This work offers some new insights into the understanding of 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR kinetics and reaction pathways to boost electrochemical performances of SACs.**

#### **1. Introduction**

The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is one of the most vital catalytic processes in advanced energy storage and conversion technologies, especially for fuel cells and metal–air batteries.[\[1,2\]](#page-8-0) Unfortunately, the sluggish kinetics of the ORR caused by multiple complex evolution steps, such as O2 activation and O═O bond cleavage, greatly inhibits the energy conversion efficiency of energy devices.[\[3,4\]](#page-8-0) Although Pt nanoparticles dispersed on carbon materials (Pt/C, 3‒5 nm) exhibit the most attractive performance for catalyzing the ORR so far,[\[5–7\]](#page-8-0) the large-scale commercialization is significantly hindered by the high cost and scarcity of noble metals.[\[8–10\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, it is urgent to explore a highly efficient and low-cost alternative to platinum-based catalysts.

Recently, transition-metal single-atom catalysts (SACs) have been ranked as one of the most promising alternatives due to their maximum atom-utilization efficiency.[\[11–14\]](#page-8-0) Previous investigations have revealed that the most favorable M‒N4 moieties in SACs tend to bond with one oxygen atom of oxygen-related species (e.g., \*OOH and \*O2) in an end-on adsorption mode, which will result in a high energy barrier for O═O bond cleavage and poor selectivity of the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR due to the inadequate orbital overlap between metal 3*d* and O 2*p* electrons.[\[15–18\]](#page-8-0) In contrast, the bridge-on adsorption mode (active sites bonding with two oxygen atoms) is widely recognized

as conducive to electron transfer, which can accelerate the O═O bond cleavage in the ORR process.[\[19–22\]](#page-8-0) However, the bridgeon mode is strongly dependent on the electronic and geometric structure of the active sites, and the fabrication of atomic sites with suitable intermetallic distances is generally restricted by the lack of reliable functional groups available to coordinate with metal sites.[[23,24\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, exploring an appropriate strategy to construct such kind of synergistic atomically dispersed metal sites with favorable electronic and geometric structures is

J. Jiang, W. Zhou, Y. Jiang, Q. An, F. Hu, S. Wei, Q. Liu National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230029, P. R. China E-mail: [zhouwl@ustc.edu.cn;](mailto:zhouwl@ustc.edu.cn) [qhliu@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:qhliu@ustc.edu.cn)

X. Zhang, K. Zheng Beijing Key Lab of Microstructure and Properties of Solids Faculty of Materials and Manufacturing Beijing University of Technology Beijing 100124, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202310163>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202310163**

H. Wang

Experimental Center of Engineering and Material Science University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, P. R. China

M. A. Soldatov The Smart Materials Research Institute Southern Federal University Sladkova 178/24, Rostov-on-Don 344090, Russia

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Morphology and structure characterizations of Fe-HDNSs. a) Schematic of the synthetic process. b) TEM image and c) TEM-EDS images of Fe-HDNSs. d) XRD patterns of Fe-HDNSs and Fe-SAs (iron single-atom catalysts). e) HAADF-STEM image and f) local enlarged view of Fe-HDNSs. g) Intensity profiles of Fe-HDNSs.

impressive for improving the catalytic kinetic activity and 4e<sup>−</sup> selectivity of the ORR.

Herein, we successfully constructed a kind of intermetallic spacing-optimized iron sites stably anchored on aminofunctionalized carbon nanosheets (labeled Fe-HDNSs) via an innovative functional ligand-assisted strategy. The strong synergies between adjacent Fe sites with intermetallic distances *<*3 Å provide rational electronic and geometric properties for the evolution of oxygen species. Quasi-in situ soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy (sXAS) reveals that the network-like Fe sites of Fe-HDNSs activate oxygen molecules through rapid electron compensation at the initial reaction stages. The effective cleavage of the O═O bonds at lower overpotentials has been confirmed by in situ synchrotron radiation infrared (SRIR) spectroscopy characterization, which fundamentally contributes to the fast kinetic process of the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR. The well-designed Fe-HDNSs catalysts exhibits greatly improved alkaline ORR performance, with a kinetic current density ≈9.4 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C and a selectivity of 98% for the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterizations of Electrocatalysts**

As illustrated in the scheme of **Figure 1**a, the atomically controlled high-density iron network-like catalysts were synthesized through two steps, involving the amino functionalization of carbon substrates and the uniform anchoring of metal ions (see Experimental Section for more details). Specifically, pyrene with a benzene ring structure was selected as the precursor, which was first nitrated into 1,3,6-trinitropyrene (NO2-C) in hot HNO3. Then, the three highly active ‒NO2 groups in 1,3,6 trinitropyrene were substituted by ‒NH2 functional groups under hydrothermal conditions (NH2–C). The sheet structures of NO2–C and NH2–C was presented in Figure S2a,b (Supporting Information), indicating that the functionalization did not cause morphological changes to the carbon matrix. More importantly, the N 1*s* X-ray photonelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of NO2–C and NH2–C in Figure S3 (Supporting Information) **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202310163 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

demonstrate that the amino group (–NH2) almost completely replaced the nitro group (–NO2) in the amino functionalization step to obtain the amino-functionalized carbon precursors (NH2–C) (see Figure S3, Supporting Information for detailed illustration). Remarkably, the three ‒NH2 groups in fixed positions on the pyrene ring structure provide adequate and spacingcontrolled anchor sites for the high-content Fe metal by hydrothermal condensation reactions. Subsequently, high-density iron sites were assembled on carbon substrates by freeze drying and pyrolysis processes, henceforth denoted as Fe-HDNSs. Normal iron single-atom catalysts (Fe-SAs) were synthesized in a similar strategy for comparison, differing in the use of 1-nitropyrene as a precursor for the amino functionalization step to construct low-density anchor sites over long distance. The Fe nanoparticles (Fe NPs) catalysts were synthesized by using pyrene as a precursor without any functionalization process.

The transition electron microscopy (TEM) image in Figure [1b](#page-1-0) presents the ultrathin nanosheet morphology of Fe-HDNSs with no observable nanoparticles. The element mapping images in Figure [1c](#page-1-0) show the uniform distributions of iron, nitrogen and carbon elements. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure [1d\)](#page-1-0) of the as-synthesized catalysts shows only a weak peak attributed to carbon at ≈25° and no obvious metal diffraction peak, indicating that no nanoparticle phase was formed in the Fe-HDNSs catalysts. The metal sites in the Fe-HDNSs catalysts were revealed by spherical aberrationcorrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images. A large number of bright dots (identified as iron atoms) can be distinguished in Figure [1e](#page-1-0) and the local enlarged image (Figure [1f\)](#page-1-0), indicating that Fe atoms were densely and atomically dispersed on carbon matrix nanosheets.[\[25\]](#page-8-0) The content of iron was determined to be 6.7 wt% by inductively coupled plasma‒optical emission spectrometry (ICP‒OES). The iron contents of Fe-SAs and Fe NPs were also detected by the same method, with the values of 3.8 and 10.6 wt%, respectively (Table S1, Supporting Information). Moreover, the atomic line profiles obtained from the HAADF-STEM image demonstrated that the average distance between adjacent Fe atoms was ≈3.0 Å (Figure [1g\)](#page-1-0). The Gauss fitting result (Figure S4, Supporting Information) shows that these paired atoms have the highest prevalence of atomic distances of ≈3.0 Å (statistical data from Figure [1f\)](#page-1-0). Combining the above characterization results, it can be confirmed that high-density iron atomic sites with optimized intermetallic spacing are indeed formed in the carbon nanosheets through active amino ligand-assisted strategies. In contrast, Fe-SAs and Fe NPs possess distinctly different morphologies, as presented in Figures S5,S6 (Supporting Information). Fe-SAs share the same nanosheet morphology as Fe-HDNSs (Figure S5a, Supporting Information) but possess a significantly lower metal atomic density than Fe-HDNSs at the same scale in the HAADF-STEM image (Figure S5b, Supporting Information). The spacing distribution in Figure S5b (Supporting Information) indicates that the intermetallic spacing in Fe-SAs is ≈2 nm, which is obviously larger than that in Fe-HDNSs of ≈3 Å. For Fe NPs, nanoparticles of 2‒3 nm are observed in both TEM and HAADF-STME images (Figure S6, Supporting Information).

#### **2.2. Electronic Structure Characterization of Electrocatalysts**

X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) of the Fe *K*edge was performed to determine the oxidation state of iron sites in the catalysts at the atomic scale (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0). The absorption edge position of Fe-HDNSs was located between those of Fe foil and Fe2O3. [\[26,27\]](#page-8-0) This can be ascribed to a middle valence between the Fe(III) and Fe(0) valence states in the Fe-HDNSs catalysts. The valence states of iron are plotted according to the positions of the pre-edge peaks, as shown in Figure [2b.](#page-3-0) It can be seen that the valence state of the as-prepared catalyst is ≈2.76. To determine the local coordination environment of the active sites, XANES of the N *K*-edge was performed and is displayed in Figure [2c.](#page-3-0) The peaks at ≈400 and ≈402 eV are assigned to the excitation of the 1*s* → 2*p* hybrid orbital of C‒N \*.[\[28\]](#page-8-0) After Fe was doped into the N-doped C substrate, a new peak was detected at 401 eV, which can be assigned to the excitation of the Fe─N bond. Additionally, the N 1*s* XPS spectra of Fe-HDNSs and Fe-SAs are displayed in Figure [2d.](#page-3-0) The N 1*s* XPS for Fe-HDNSs can be deconvoluted into four peaks, which were assigned to oxidized (403.2 eV), graphitic/pyrrolic (401.3 eV), metal-coordinated (399.6 eV), and pyridinic nitrogen (398.7 eV).[\[29\]](#page-8-0) For comparison, there is no characteristic peak of metal-coordinated N in the N 1*s* XPS results of the metal-free amino-functionalized carbon matrix (NC) (Figure S7a, Supporting Information). As seen in Figure [2d,](#page-3-0) the slight negative shift in the binding energy (≈0.2 eV) of Fe-HDNSs relative to Fe-SAs implies the strong interaction between Fe and N in Fe-HDNSs catalysts, which matches the Fe 2*p* XPS results (Figure S8a, Supporting Information).[\[30\]](#page-8-0) Moreover, the metalcoordinated peak area of Fe-HDNSs is significantly larger than that of Fe-SAs, indicating that there are more nitrogen species that coordinate with metal sites (M‒N) in Fe-HDNSs, which is related to the high density of Fe sites in the N-rich nanosheet.[\[31\]](#page-8-0) The XPS survey spectra of all three catalysts were displayed in Figures S7–S10 (Supporting Information) for comparison, which demonstrate the similar carbon/oxygen/nitrogen coordination of the three catalysts. Nevertheless, the Fe *2p* XPS spectra of Fe NPs present a peak position at ≈707 eV (Figure S8b, Supporting Information), revealing the different iron valence of Fe (0) from those of Fe-HDNSs and Fe-SAs of Fe(II) at ≈710 eV (Figure S8a, Supporting Information).[\[32,33\]](#page-8-0)

To further determine the local electronic structure of Fe sites at the atomic level, we conducted extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy characterizations, and the results of the *k*3-weighted EXAFS spectra are presented in Figure [2e.](#page-3-0) Combining the results of N 1*s* XPS and N K-edge XANES of Fe-HDNSs, the dominant peak at ≈1.5 Å of the Fe-HDNSs catalysts can be attributed to the first-shell of Fe‒N/O coordination,[\[34–36\]](#page-8-0) while the contrast Fe NPs samples exhibit an Fe‒Fe scattering peak consistent with Fe foil at ≈2.1 Å. Remarkably, Figure [2f](#page-3-0) clearly shows that the Fe-HDNSs catalysts possess a characteristic peak at ≈2.6 Å, which originates from the presence of metal coordination between the high-density Fe sites with distances *<*3 Å. This means that the distance between Fe sites in Fe-HDNSs is close enough to make the Fe‒N coordination form a network on the amino-functionalized carbon nanosheets (inset of Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). Moreover, the corresponding EXAFS curve fitting was conducted to confirm the local coordination structure of Fe atoms (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). The fitting results indicate that the dominant

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Electronic structure characterizations of Fe-HDNSs. a) Fe K-edge XANES spectra of Fe foil, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, Fe NPs and Fe-HDNSs. b) Linear diagram of the absorption edge positions and valence states of iron. c) N K-edge XANES spectra of Fe-HDNSs and NC (Catalysts prepared in a similar strategy to that used for Fe-HDNSs but without the addition of an iron source). d) N 1s XPS spectra of Fe-HDNSs and Fe-SAs. e) The Fe K-edge  $K^3$ -weighted EXAFS profiles of Fe foil, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, Fe NPs, and Fe-HDNSs. f) The Fe K-edge  $K^3$ -weighted EXAFS profile and the corresponding fitting curve of Fe-HDNSs.

peak at  $\approx 1.5$  Å corresponds to the four Fe–N coordination, and the bond length is  $\approx 2.00$  Å (see Table S2, Supporting Information for detailed parameters). Therefore, the above results verify that the iron network atoms with atomically dispersed high-density iron atoms were successfully coupled onto the carbon substrate.

#### 2.3. Electrochemical Characterization in Alkaline Electrolyte

The superior ORR performance of Fe-HDNSs was evaluated from its electrochemical properties. First, the as-prepared catalysts displayed an obvious cyclic voltammetry (CV) reduction peak in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, presenting ORR catalytic capability (Figure S11, Supporting Information). [37,38] As displayed by the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurement results in **Figure 3a** and the statistics of half-wave potentials and kinetic current densities at 0.8 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) of all catalysts in Figure 3b, Fe-HDNSs present excellent alkaline ORR performance with a half-wave potential of 0.89 V in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH, exceeding commercial Pt/C by 50 mV and obviously better than Fe-SAs and Fe NPs. Fe-HDNSs present a high kinetic current density ( $j_K$ ) of 72.00 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which exceeds that of the reference catalysts by an order of magnitude (Fe-SAs, 9.11 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>; 20% Pt/C, 7.69 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> @0.8 V vs.

RHE). The Tafel slope is an important evaluation criterion in electrochemical processes; the smaller the Tafel slope, the faster the reaction kinetics. Fe-HDNSs showed the lowest Tafel slope of  $101.0 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}$  compared to those of 20% Pt/C (160.0 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Fe-SAs (105.0 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and Fe NPs (133.1 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), suggesting its superior kinetics for 4e<sup>-</sup> ORR (Figure 3c).<sup>[10]</sup> These results confirm that the introduction of intermetallic spacing-optimized high-density Fe active sites into the amino-functionalized carbon matrix can effectively catalyze the ORR at a lower overpotential. In addition, we also listed the half-wave potentials and the kinetic current densities at 0.8 V (vs. RHE) of some alkaline noble-metal-free ORR catalysts (Figure 3h; Table S3, Supporting Information), which clearly demonstrate that Fe-HDNSs possess superior half-wave potential and kinetic current density among those reported catalysts. Notably, the electrochemically active surface area was assessed by double-layer capacitance  $(C_{\rm dl})$  tests, as shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). The Fe-HDNSs exhibit a relatively larger  $C_{\rm dl}$  of 5.97 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, markedly higher than that of Fe-SAs (4.71 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Fe NPs (2.60 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), which implies the richest effective active sites in the Fe-HDNSs.[38]

To further probe the selectivity of Fe-HDNSs, LSV at different rotating rates of the rotating disk electrode were conducted and are displayed in Figure 3d. [39] The average electron transfer number (n) for Fe-HDNSs was calculated by the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrochemical ORR properties of Fe-HDNSs. a) LSV curves, b) comparisons of half-wave potential (*E*1/2) and kinetic current density (*j K*) (@0.8 V vs. RHE), c) Tafel slopes of Fe-HDNSs, Fe-SAs, Fe NPs, and 20% Pt/C. d) Polarization plots at regular rotation rates of Fe-HDNSs with the inset showing the derived Koutecky–Levich plots. e) ORR pathway selectivity parameters, f) Nyquist plots of Fe-HDNSs at different applied potentials. g) LSV curves for Fe-HDNSs of 5000 CV cycles before and after. h) Comparison of ORR performance for different catalysts. All measurements were performed in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH.

Koutechy–Levich (K–L) equation and was estimated to be 3.96 at 0.60 V (inset of Figure 3d, see Description 2 in Supporting Information for more details).[\[40\]](#page-8-0) In addition, rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) measurements revealed distinct ring and disk currents for those electrocatalysts, indicating outstanding 4e<sup>−</sup> selectivity toward the ORR pathway for Fe-HDNSs (Figure 3e).[\[41\]](#page-8-0) The calculated electron transfer number from the RRDE measurements was 3.95, in accordance with the results from the K– L plots. The H2O2 yield of Fe-HDNSs was measured to be below 2%, which represents a high selectivity for the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR. In addition, it can be seen that both the electron transfer number and the H2O2 yield of the Fe-HDNSs are obviously better than those of the Fe-SAs catalysts, which indicates the greatly enhanced selectivity of the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR on the high-density Fe sites.

EIS is an effective electrochemical measurement method to obtain the adsorption and desorption kinetics information of the reactants on the electrode/electrolyte surface, which can intuitively obtain the evolution of oxygen-related species in the active sites. To gain an in-depth understanding of the kinetic behaviors for the Fe-HDNSs catalysts under working conditions, in situ electrochemical impedance (EIS) measurements were performed at different applied potentials in 0.1 m KOH over the frequency range of 0.01 to 100 kHz (Figure 3f).[\[42–44\]](#page-8-0) The Nyquist plots were simulated according to the equivalent circuit model (Figure S13, Supporting Information), and the fitted EIS data are displayed in Table S4 (Supporting Information). The in situ EIS data and corresponding fitted data of Fe-SAs were displayed in Supporting Information for comparison (Figures S14,S15, Supporting Information, Table S5, Supporting Information). The fitting parameters *R*s, *R*ct, *R*mt, and *C*rxn represent the solution resistance, charge transfer resistance, diffusion resistance, and capacitance of the reaction process, respectively. The values of *R*ct and *C*rxn at different potentials can be used to assess the evolution kinetics of oxygen-related species.[\[26,45\]](#page-8-0) The response of key parameters to the applied potentials within the kinetic region and mixed diffusion-controlled region is displayed in Figure S16 (Supporting Information). It can be seen that the *R*ct values of Fe-HDNSs are smaller and the *C*rxn values are higher than those of Fe-SAs during the ORR process, indicating a faster charge

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) In situ SRIR spectra of Fe-HDNSs and b) Fe-SAs. c) SRIR absorption stretching variation at 1107 cm−<sup>1</sup> for Fe-HDNSs and at 965 cm−<sup>1</sup> for Fe-SAs. d) Schematics of the ORR mechanism for Fe-HDNSs and e) Fe-SAs.

transfer kinetic process and improved adsorption behavior of oxygen-related species.[\[46\]](#page-9-0) Moreover, the Rct value decreased rapidly with the advance of the reaction process, revealing that the ORR kinetics of Fe-HDNSs are significantly accelerated. Combining the results of XAFS and in situ SRIR spectra (Section 2.4), we inferred that the significantly accelerated kinetics was caused by the bridge-on adsorption mode of oxygen-related species within adjacent network iron atoms.[\[47,48\]](#page-9-0) In addition to all of the above properties, durability issues are of wide concern for electrocatalysts due to the low coordination numbers of metal atoms. For this reason, the accelerated durability test (ADT) was conducted to evaluate the durability of Fe-HDNSs. As shown in Figure [3g,](#page-4-0) the half-wave potential of Fe-HDNSs only attenuates by 7 mV, while the commercial 20% Pt/C (Figure S17, Supporting Information) attenuates by 27 mV after 5000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles, which indicates that Fe-HDNSs have a robust electrochemical performance. Meanwhile, only≈4.7% of the Fe was leached from the Fe-HDNSs after the long-term stability test, and no iron aggregation occurred during the electrochemical reaction (Figures S18,S19, Supporting Information). The carbon matrix of the Fe-HDNSs catalysts remains virtually unchanged after 1000 CV cycles, indicating good substrate robustness (Figures S20,S21, Supporting Information). These electrochemical characterization results demonstrated that Fe-HDNSs possessed high activity and durability, which may be related to the optimized network-like iron sites of Fe-HDNSs analyzed in Figures [1](#page-1-0) and [2.](#page-3-0)

#### **2.4. Mechanism Exploration Via In Situ and Quasi-In Situ Characterization**

In situ SRIR measurements, which are highly sensitive to oxygen-related species under realistic conditions, were performed to monitor oxygen evolution during the ORR process.[\[49–51\]](#page-9-0) Since the absorption band within the range of 1060‒1150 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is known to be associated with the two-site adsorption of \*O‒O\* radicals, the voltage-dependent infrared vibration at ≈1107 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> displayed in **Figure 4**a represents the production of \*O‒O\* intermediates during the ORR process.[\[52\]](#page-9-0) In comparison, the SRIR measurement of Fe-SAs was also conducted under the same conditions (Figure 4b). A different IR absorption band appears at ≈965 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> when the applied potential exceeds 0.90 V versus RHE. As the infrared vibration peaks of the \*OOH species adsorbed on metal sites typically lie at ≈900 cm<sup>−</sup>1, the different IR absorption bands of Fe-SAs from Fe-HDNSs can be assigned to the emergence of \*OOH intermediate species.[\[53,54\]](#page-9-0) It can be seen that the Fe-HDNSs catalysts with suitably synergistic iron active sites provides a significant inhibitory effect on the conventional rate-limiting step of \*O2→\*OOH by the effective activation of molecular oxygen to \*O‒O\* radicals. The IR signal variation along with the applied potential in Figure 4c shows that the variation of \*O‒O\* in Fe-HDNSs quickly diminishes at low overpotentials compared to that in the Fe-SAs, indicating the fast cleavage of \*O‒O\* on network-like Fe sites. Therefore, the ideal electronic and geometric structure of

**Figure 5.** a) O *K*-edge sXAS spectra and b) Fe *L3*-edge sXAS spectra of Fe-HDNSs after the stability test from 1.00 to 0.60 V and the original Fe-HDNSs. c) The partially enlarged area of Figure 5a. d) The energy shift of Fe-HDNSs compared with that after the stability test and original electrocatalysts.

adjacent iron active sites in Fe-HDNSs promotes the two-site adsorption mode of oxygen species (\*O‒O\*) under realistic reaction conditions, which is promising for efficiently destabilizing O═O bonds by donating more electrons to O 2*p* orbitals.[\[55\]](#page-9-0) The schematics of the ORR mechanism for Fe-HDNSs and Fe-SAs are displayed in Figure [4d,e.](#page-5-0) For the Fe-HDNSs catalysts with high-density iron active sites, the adjacent iron atoms can adsorb oxygen molecules by the bridge-on mode and form \*O‒O\* intermediates. The strong electron coupling between adjacent iron sites and the \*O‒O\* radical promotes O═O bond cleavage to form the M‒O\* state, which significantly improves the kinetics of oxygen reduction. Moreover, there are no obvious vibrational peaks corresponding to \*O at *<*800 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure [4a\)](#page-5-0),[\[56\]](#page-9-0) indicating that the reaction process is not limited by the desorption of \*O species at Fe sites, which is in line with our hypothesis, i.e., the direct cleavage of the O = O bond is the most influential factor in enhancing the reaction kinetics. In comparison, the iron single sites in Fe-SAs can only bond to one oxygen atom by the end-on mode, and the sluggish step of \*O2→\*OOH inevitably occurs, which result in difficulty of O═O bond cleavage in the subsequent steps and cause sluggish ORR kinetics.

In addition, soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy (sXAS), which is sensitive to electron distributions, was also adopted to explore the electron-transfer phenomenon between catalytic sites and oxygen-related species. The O *K*-edge curves of Fe-HDNSs obtained after stability reactions at different voltages are presented in **Figure 5**a. The shape and intensity of the pre-edge peak at ≈534.4 eV corresponds to the filled state of the O 2*p* orbital, which is hybridized to Fe 3*d* (Fe‒O). The intensity of the normalized preedge peak (Figure 5c) shows a downward trend along with the ORR process and especially reflects a significant decrease during the initial potential interval (1.00→0.89 V), indicating an increase in electron transfer to the O 2*p* orbital. Moreover, the disappearance of shoulder peaks at higher energies (535.4 eV) also indicates an increase in the electron number of the O 2*p* orbital.[\[57–59\]](#page-9-0) A similar partial electron compensation between metal and oxygen species can also be observed within the Fe *L*3-edge curves of Fe-HDNSs obtained at different applied potentials (Figure 5b). The energy position of the characteristic peak at ≈712 eV is negatively correlated with the *d*-electron number of metal Fe sites.[\[60\]](#page-9-0) Figure 5b and the corresponding normalized energy position statistics in Figure 5d show that the characteristic peak undergoes an obvious shift to the high-energy side by 0.6 eV from ex situ to 1.00 V, which further demonstrates the fast electron donation from iron sites to adsorbed oxygen at the initial reaction stages. In addition, the slight positive shift of the normalized energy position along with the ORR process reflects sustained electronic compensation to continuously stimulate the instability of the O═O bond, which is consistent with the results of the O *K*edge spectra (Figure 5d). Combined with the SRIR observation, it can be seen that the electronic donation effect and appropriate intermetallic spacing of the network-like Fe sites promote the two-site bridge-on adsorption of oxygen species, which significantly facilitates the electronic compensation of the metal sites to the oxygen in the presence of *p–d* hybridization, thus inducing direct cleavage of the O═O bond.[\[22\]](#page-8-0) These results corroborate **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202310163 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

that the as-synthesized Fe-HDNSs electrocatalysts effectively activate the adsorbed molecular oxygen to cleave the O═O bond by in situ electron compensation; therefore, \*OOH intermediates are suppressed to achieve fast ORR kinetics and high 4e<sup>−</sup> selectivity.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we developed a kind of intermetallic spacingoptimized iron network-like sites catalyst through an active amino ligand-assisted strategy. Combining the powerful technologies of in situ SRIR and Quasi-in situ sXAS, we demonstrated that the key \*O‒O\* intermediates were effectively formed by rapidly activating molecular oxygen at the early ORR potentials, resulting in a direct cleavage of the O═O bond by adequate electron compensation from the network-like Fe sites. The as-prepared Fe-HDNSs catalysts possess outstanding alkaline ORR performance, and their half-wave potential and reaction kinetics are superior to those of noble-metal-free ORR catalysts. More importantly, the half-wave potential attenuation of Fe-HDNSs was obviously less than that of Pt/C after 5000 CV cycles, indicating the robust stability of Fe-HDNSs. This work provides new insight for enhancing the ORR kinetics of SACs.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Synthesis of Fe-HDNSs*: Typically, pyrene (1 g) was dispersed in HNO3 (80 mL) and heated to 80 °C for 12 h under refluxing and stirring. After washing with DI water and drying under vacuum, bright yellow 1,3,6 trinitropyrene powder was obtained. The above powder (0.3 g) was ultrasonically dispersed in a mixed solution containing DI water (55 mL) and aqueous ammonia (5 mL) for 4 h. Then, the homogeneous suspension was transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave. The autoclave was heated at 200 °C for 10 h. After cooling to room temperature, the resulting solution (NH2-C solution) was concentrated to ≈20 mL by evaporation. Next, 15 mg of FeCl3·6H2O in 2 mL DI water was dropped slowly into the above solution. The mixed solution was sonicated in ice water for 15 min, followed by freeze-drying. Finally, the obtained powder was mixed with urea in a mass ratio of 1–10 and annealed in a tube furnace at 800 °C for 2 h under a N2 atmosphere to yield Fe-HDNSs.

*Synthesis of Fe-SAs*: Normal iron single-atom catalysts (Fe-SAs) were synthesized in a similar strategy for comparison, differing in the use of 1-nitropyrene as a precursor for the amino functionalization step to construct low-density anchor sites over long distances. 1-Nitropyrene (0.3 g) was ultrasonically dispersed in a mixed solution containing DI water (55 mL) and aqueous ammonia (5 mL) for 4 h. Then, the homogeneous suspension was transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined stainlesssteel autoclave. The autoclave was heated at 200 °C for 10 h. After cooling to room temperature, the resulting solution was concentrated to ≈20 mL by evaporation. Next, 5 mg of FeCl3·6H2O in 2 mL DI water was dropped slowly into the above solution. The mixed solution was sonicated in ice water for 15 min, followed by freeze-drying. Finally, the obtained powder was mixed with urea in a mass ratio of 1–10 and annealed in a tube furnace at 800 °C for 2 h under a N2 atmosphere to yield Fe-SAs.

*Synthesis of Fe NPs*: The Fe nanoparticles (Fe NPs) catalysts were synthesized by using pyrene as a precursor without any functionalization process. Pyrene (1 g) was ultrasonically dispersed in 20 mL of DI water. Fifteen milligrams of FeCl3·6H2O in 2 mL DI water was dropped slowly into the above solution. The mixed solution was sonicated in ice water for 15 min, followed by freeze-drying. Finally, the obtained powder was mixed with urea in a mass ratio of 1–10 and annealed in a tube furnace at 900 °C for 2 h under a N2 atmosphere to yield Fe NPs.

*Synthesis of NC*: The synthesis process of NC is similar to that of Fe-HDNSs, except that no metal source was added to the mixed solution before freeze-drying.

*Characterizations*: Spherical aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) were conducted on an FEI Titan Themis (300 kV) microscope. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was performed on a JEM-2100F microscope with an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were measured in a Philips X' Pert Pro Super X-ray diffractometer using Cu K radiation ( = 1.54178 Å). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was recorded on a Thermo ESCALAB 250Xi with Al K (*h* = 1486.6 eV) as the excitation source.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: All electrochemical measurements of ORR performance were performed in a standard three-electrode system using an electrochemical workstation (CHI760E, CH Instruments). The electrochemical ORR activity of Fe-HDNSs was measured by the rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) methods in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at room temperature, along with Fe-SAs, Fe NPs and commercial Pt/C for comparison. Samples were tested on an RDE with a disk diameter of 5 mm or an RRDE with a disk diameter of 4 mm as the working electrode, a Pt mesh as the counter electrode, and a Ag/AgCl electrode (saturated KCl solution) as the reference electrode. All experiments were carried out in 0.1 m KOH solution. The catalyst solutions were prepared by mixing 5.0 mg catalyst in a solution containing 250 μL of ethanol, 750 μL of DI water, and 20 μL of 5 wt% Nafion solution by sonication to form homogeneous inks. Then, 13.8 μL of well-dispersed catalyst ink was carefully dropped onto the RDE and allowed to dry naturally for testing and 8.8 μL for RRDE.

*XAFS Measurements*: The XAFS measurements of the Fe *K*-edge were carried out at the 1W1B station of the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF, China). The storage ring of BSRF was operated at 2.5 GeV with a maximum current of 250 mA. To obtain the structural parameters around Fe atoms in the samples, the EXAFS data were processed according to the standard procedures using the ATHENA and ARTEMIS module implemented in the IFEFFIT software packages. The *k3*-weighted (*k*) data in the *k*-space were Fourier transformed to R-space using Hanning windows (dk = 1.0 Å<sup>−</sup>1). For the fitting of Fe *K*-edge data, the amplitude reduction factor *S*<sup>0</sup> <sup>2</sup> was treated as an adjustable variable, and the obtained value of 0.98 for Fe foil was fixed in the fitting of the subsequent Fe *K*-edge data for Fe-HDNSs. The Fe-N/O scattering path was considered to fit the EXAFS data.

*In Situ SRIR Measurements*: In situ synchrotron radiation FTIR measurements were collected at the infrared beamline BL01B of the NSRL through a homemade top-plate cell. A platinum mesh was used as the counter electrode, and a Ag/AgCl electrode (saturated KCl solution) and a catalyst-coated CC (carbon cloth) served as the reference and working electrodes, respectively. The electrolyte was 0.1 m KOH saturated with O2 and circulated by a peristaltic pump. The instrument adopts the reflection mode of vertically incident infrared light, the measurement width of the infrared spectrum is 600–4000 cm<sup>−</sup>1, and the spectral resolution is 0.25 cm<sup>−</sup>1.

*SXAS Measurements*: The N *K*-edge, O *K*-edge and Fe *L3*-edge X-ray absorption spectra were measured at the beamlines MCD-A and MCD-B (Soochow Beamline for Energy Materials) in the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (NSRL, China), which were measured in the total electron yield mode in a vacuum chamber (*<*5 × 10−<sup>8</sup> Pa). All spectra were normalized and then compared.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# <span id="page-8-0"></span>**Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2022YFA1502903), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (12135012 and 22241202), the Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Province (Grant No. 2208085J01), the Postdoctoral Science Foundation of China (BX20230345, 2023M743366) and the Key Program of Research and Development of Hefei Science Center, CAS (2022HSC-KPRD003). This work was partially carried out at the Instruments Center for Physical Science, University of Science and Technology of China.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

high-density single sites, in situ synchrotron radiation characterization, intermetallic spacing effect, molecular oxygen activation, oxygen reduction

> Received: November 8, 2023 Revised: January 6, 2024 Published online: February 22, 2024

- [1] K. Kodama, T. Nagai, A. Kuwaki, R. Jinnouchi, Y. Morimoto, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2021**, *16*, 140.
- [2] W. Zhou, H. Su, W. Cheng, Y. Li, J. Jiang, M. Liu, F. Yu, W. Wang, S. Wei, Q. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6414.
- [3] A. Holewinski, J.-C. Idrobo, S. Linic, *Nat. Chem.* **2014**, *6*, 828.
- [4] Z. Teng, Q. Zhang, H. Yang, K. Kato, W. Yang, Y.-R. Lu, S. Liu, C. Wang, A. Yamakata, C. Su, B. Liu, T. Ohno, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 374.
- [5] L. Huang, M. Wei, R. Qi, C.-L. Dong, D. Dang, C.-C. Yang, C. Xia, C. Chen, S. Zaman, F.-M. Li, B. You, B. Y. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6703.
- [6] Z. Li, J. Zou, X. Xi, P. Fan, Y. Zhang, Y. Peng, D. Banham, D. Yang, A. Dong, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202743.
- [7] J. Huang, L. Sementa, Z. Liu, G. Barcaro, M. Feng, E. Liu, L. Jiao, M. Xu, D. Leshchev, S.-J. Lee, M. Li, C. Wan, E. Zhu, Y. Liu, B. Peng, X. Duan, W. A. Goddard, A. Fortunelli, Q. Jia, Y. Huang, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 513.
- [8] W. Cheng, X. Zhao, H. Su, F. Tang, W. Che, H. Zhang, Q. Liu, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 115.
- [9] W. Zhang, Y. Chao, W. Zhang, J. Zhou, F. Lv, K. Wang, F. Lin, H. Luo, J. Li, M. Tong, E. Wang, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2102576.
- [10] M. Geethalakshmi, M. Ganeshbabu, S. Surendran, A. Stephen, *Ionics* **2022**, *28*, 1347.
- [11] Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, Y. Zhu, Q. Cai, A. Vasileff, L. H. Li, Y. Han, Y. Chen, S.-Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 3336.
- [12] X. Wu, H. Zhang, S. Zuo, J. Dong, Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Han, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2021**, *13*, 136.
- [13] H. Fei, J. Dong, Y. Feng, C. S. Allen, C. Wan, B. Volosskiy, M. Li, Z. Zhao, Y. Wang, H. Sun, P. An, W. Chen, Z. Guo, C. Lee, D. Chen, I. Shakir, M. Liu, T. Hu, Y. Li, A. I. Kirkland, X. Duan, Y. Huang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 63.
- [14] Q. Hao, H.-X. Zhong, J.-Z. Wang, K.-H. Liu, J.-M. Yan, Z.-H. Ren, N. Zhou, X. Zhao, H. Zhang, D.-X. Liu, X. Liu, L.-W. Chen, J. Luo, X.-B. Zhang, *Anti-Cancer Drugs: Nat. Synth. Cell* **2022**, *1*, 719.

- [15] Y. Xie, X. Chen, K. Sun, J. Zhang, W. H. Lai, H. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202301833.
- [16] X. Liang, N. Fu, S. Yao, Z. Li, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 18155.
- [17] Y. Wang, Y.-J. Tang, K. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 14115.
- [18] R. Liu, R. Tang, J. Feng, T. Meng, *Chem. Eng. J. (Amsterdam, Neth.)* **2023**, *470*, 144261.
- [19] J. Wang, Z. Huang, W. Liu, C. Chang, H. Tang, Z. Li, W. Chen, C. Jia, T. Yao, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17281.
- [20] X. Yan, D. Liu, P. Guo, Y. He, X. Wang, Z. Li, H. Pan, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210975.
- [21] D. Deng, J. Qian, X. Liu, H. Li, D. Su, H. Li, H. Li, L. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2203471.
- [22] Q. Ma, H. Jin, J. Zhu, Z. Li, H. Xu, B. Liu, Z. Zhang, J. Ma, S. Mu, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2102209.
- [23] Z. Jin, P. Li, Y. Meng, Z. Fang, D. Xiao, G. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 615.
- [24] Z. Lu, B. Wang, Y. Hu, W. Liu, Y. Zhao, R. Yang, Z. Li, J. Luo, B. Chi, Z. Jiang, M. Li, S. Mu, S. Liao, J. Zhang, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 2622.
- [25] J. Chen, H. Li, C. Fan, Q. Meng, Y. Tang, X. Qiu, G. Fu, T. Ma, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003134.
- [26] H. Zhang, C. Yang, W. Zhou, M. Liu, F. Yu, F. Hu, H. Wang, W. Wang, Q. Liu, H. Su, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *101*, 107587.
- [27] Y. Han, Y.-G. Wang, W. Chen, R. Xu, L. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Luo, R.-A. Shen, Y. Zhu, W.-C. Cheong, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17269.
- [28] H. Su, W. Zhou, W. Zhou, Y. Li, L. Zheng, H. Zhang, M. Liu, X. Zhang, X. Sun, Y. Xu, F. Hu, J. Zhang, T. Hu, Q. Liu, S. Wei, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6118.
- [29] T. Marshall-Roth, N. J. Libretto, A. T. Wrobel, K. J. Anderton, M. L. Pegis, N. D. Ricke, T. V. Voorhis, J. T. Miller, Y. Surendranath, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5283.
- [30] Z. Y. Wu, M. Karamad, X. Yong, Q. Huang, D. A. Cullen, P. Zhu, C. Xia, Q. Xiao, M. Shakouri, F. Y. Chen, J. Y. T. Kim, Y. Xia, K. Heck, Y. Hu, M. S. Wong, Q. Li, I. Gates, S. Siahrostami, H. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2870.
- [31] G. He, J. Li, W. Qiu, L. Chen, K. Wang, Y. Liu, M. Liu, W. Li, *Chem. Eng. J. (Amsterdam, Neth.)* **2023**, *469*, 144096.
- [32] H. Zhang, C. Wang, H. Luo, J. Chen, M. Kuang, J. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *62*, 202217071.
- [33] C. Yang, H.-B. Wang, P. Liang, B.-F. Wu, L. Zhao, P.-S. Leng, L. Lv, H.-Z. Wan, H. Wang, *Rare Met. (Beijing, China)* **2023**, *42*, 1865.
- [34] X. Tang, Y. Wei, W. Zhai, Y. Wu, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *35*, 202208942.
- [35] Z. Yang, Y. Wang, M. Zhu, Z. Li, W. Chen, W. Wei, T. Yuan, Y. Qu, Q. Xu, C. Zhao, X. Wang, P. Li, Y. Li, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 2158.
- [36] M. I. Bondin, S. J. Borg, M.-H. Cheah, S. P. Best, *Radiat. Phys. Chem.* **2006**, *75*, 1878.
- [37] Y. Wu, C. Ye, L. Yu, Y. Liu, J. Huang, J. Bi, L. Xue, J. Sun, J. Yang, W. Zhang, X. Wang, P. Xiong, J. Zhu, *Conduct. Polym.-Based Energy Storage Mater.* **2022**, *45*, 805.
- [38] F. Kong, X. Cui, Y. Huang, H. Yao, Y. Chen, H. Tian, G. Meng, C. Chen, Z. Chang, J. Shi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116290.
- [39] J. Qin, H. Liu, P. Zou, R. Zhang, C. Wang, H. L. Xin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2197.
- [40] S. Shanmugapriya, P. R. Kasturi, P. Zhu, J. Zhu, C. Yan, X. Zhang, R. K. Selvan, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2020**, *4*, 2808.
- [41] M. Fan, Q. Yuan, Y. Zhao, Z. Wang, A. Wang, Y. Liu, K. Sun, J. Wu, L. Wang, J. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107040.
- [42] H.-T. Lien, S.-T. Chang, P.-T. Chen, D. P. Wong, Y.-C. Chang, Y.-R. Lu, C.-L. Dong, C.-H. Wang, K.-H. Chen, L.-C. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4233.
- [43] P. Joshi, T. Okada, K. Miyabayashi, M. Miyake, *Anal. Chem.* **2018**, *90*, 6116.

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[44] C. Gong, C. Yang, W. Zhou, H. Su, Q. Liu, *Chin. J. Chem. Phys.* **2023**, *36*, 373.
- [45] R. K. Singh, R. Devivaraprasad, T. Kar, A. Chakraborty, M. Neergat, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F489.
- [46] G. Janani, S. Surendran, H. Choi, M. K. Han, U. Sim, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 202103613.
- [47] W. Zhou, H. Su, Z. Wang, F. Yu, W. Wang, X. Chen, Q. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 1127.
- [48] Q. An, X. Zhang, C. Yang, H. Su, W. Zhou, M. Liu, X. Zhang, X. Sun, S. Bo, F. Yu, J. Jiang, K. Zheng, Q. Liu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2304303.
- [49] W. Cheng, H. Su, Q. Liu, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2022**, *55*, 1949.
- [50] W. Zhou, J. Jiang, W. Cheng, H. Su, Q. Liu, *Chin. J. Struct. Chem.* **2022**, *41*, 2210004.
- [51] Y. Li, W. Cheng, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. He, Q. Liu, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *77*, 105121.
- [52] C. Lin, J.-L. Li, X. Li, S. Yang, W. Luo, Y. Zhang, S.-H. Kim, D.-H. Kim, S. S. Shinde, Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, Z. Jiang, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 1012.
- [53] N. Sivasankar, W. W. Weare, H. Frei, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 12976.

- [54] R. R. Rao, M. J. Kolb, L. Giordano, A. F. Pedersen, Y. Katayama, J. Hwang, A. Mehta, H. You, J. R. Lunger, H. Zhou, N. B. Halck, T. Vegge, I. Chorkendorff, I. E. L. Stephens, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 516.
- [55] Y. Liu, L. Li, H. Tan, N. Ye, Y. Gu, S. Zhao, S. Zhang, M. Luo, S. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 19877.
- [56] L. Cao, Q. Luo, J. Chen, L. Wang, Y. Lin, H. Wang, X. Liu, X. Shen, W. Zhang, W. Liu, Z. Qi, Z. Jiang, J. Yang, T. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4849.
- [57] M. Gimenez-Marques, E. Bellido, T. Berthelot, T. Simon-Yarza, T. Hidalgo, R. Simon-Vazquez, A. Gonzalez-Fernandez, J. Avila, M. C. Asensio, R. Gref, P. Couvreur, C. Serre, P. Horcajada, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1801900.
- [58] B. Li, H. Yan, Y. Zuo, D. Xia, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 2811.
- [59] W. Hu, C. Wang, H. Tan, H. Duan, G. Li, N. Li, Q. Ji, Y. Lu, Y. Wang, Z. Sun, F. Hu, W. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1854.
- [60] Q. Yin, J. Luo, J. Zhang, L. Zheng, G. Cui, J. Han, D. O'Hare, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 12548.