---
source: Jose 等 - 2021 - Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction Activity of N‐Doped Carbon–Cobalt Boride Heterointerfaces.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.843s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:06:01.992130Z
---

**www.advenergymat.de**

# **Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction Activity of N-Doped Carbon–Cobalt Boride Heterointerfaces**

*Vishal Jose, Jean Marie Vianney Nsanzimana, Huimin Hu, Jinho Choi,\* Xin Wang,\* and Jong-Min Lee\**

**Compositional and structural engineering of metal-metalloid materials can boost their electrocatalytic performance. Herein, a highly efficient and stable electrocatalytic system for the oxygen reduction reaction is obtained by creating heterointerfaces between N-doped carbon and cobalt boride nanosheets. Furthermore, a detailed investigation on the effect of annealing temperature as well as the amount of carbon and nitrogen sources is conducted to tune their performance. The best electrocatalyst among the prepared materials is found to have an onset potential of 1.05 V and half-wave potential of 0.94 V, which are 40 and 72 mV positive in comparison to commercial Pt/C, respectively. Finally, a zinc–air battery is also assembled using the catalyst.**

### **1. Introduction**

The development of efficient electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is a major research drive in the field of renewable energy technologies, such as fuel cells and metal–air batteries. Achieving desired electronic and architectural properties for such catalysts remains challenging due to several variables that have to be optimized simultaneously. An ORR electrocatalyst should have desirable characteristics, which include high density of ORR active sites, reproducible synthesis procedure, electrochemical activity, excellent stability in the respective electrolyte, and low overpotential compared

V. Jose Energy Research Institute @ NTU ERI@N Interdisciplinary Graduate School Nanyang Technological University 50 Nanyang Drive, Singapore 637553, Singapore V. Jose, Dr. J. M. V. Nsanzimana, Prof. X. Wang, Prof. J.-M. Lee School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering Nanyang Technological University 62 Nanyang Drive, Singapore 637459, Singapore E-mail: wangxin@ntu.edu.sg; jmlee@ntu.edu.sg H. Hu, Prof. J. Choi College of Energy Soochow Institute for Energy and Materials Innovations, and Key Laboratory of Advanced Carbon Materials and Wearable Energy Technologies of Jiangsu Province Soochow University Suzhou 215006, China E-mail: jhchoi@suda.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202100157.

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202100157**

with thermodynamic oxygen to water conversion potential of 1.23 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)).[1] Especially so in recent years, platinum (Pt)-based catalysts are widely utilized as the state of the art catalyst for ORR.[2] However, they are known to suffer from ineluctable concerns with regards to scarcity, extreme cost, poor stability in long term usage and poisoning effects from methanol crossover.[3,4]

The potential of rechargeable metal–air batteries (metal = Zn, Li, Al, Mg, etc.) in future energy applications can be simply revealed from its high theoretical energy density values, in the range of 1086–11

140 Wh kg–1. [5,6] Metal anodes, such as Zn, are earth abundant, cheap, safe for handling, and environmentally benign, favoring suitability of metal–air batteries for domestic and industrial applications.[7,8] Despite the intensive research being undertaken in the field of Zn–air batteries, major degradation issues remain with regards to the following: a) degradation of cathode materials-catalyst, carbon support and binders and b) morphological degradation of Zn anode during repeated cycles.[9] Thus, in order to realize and leverage on the full potential of metal air batteries, the primary task would be to develop highly efficient and stable air cathodes that favor oxygen chemistry, mainly the ORR.

Earth abundant metal-based catalysts, like metal oxides,[10] perovskites,[11] spinel type,[12] MXenes, [13,14] and mixed metal oxides[15,16] have been investigated as ORR catalysts. In addition, heteroatom-doped carbon structures containing metallic elements, like cobalt, nickel, and iron, have emerged as promising candidates to replace Pt. Despite intensive research in metal pnictogens and chalcogens over the years, there is a lack in exploration of metal-metalloids, such as amorphous metal borides for the ORR. Transition metal borides show superior oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance in alkaline solution compared with noble metal catalysts, metal oxides, and metal alloy counterparts.[17] In contrast, transition metal borides undergo severe oxidation, limiting activities that may be derived and consequently, their ORR performance.[18] To date, only J. Ma et al[19] and K. Elumeeva et al[20] reported the usage of CoB as an ORR electrocatalyst, but the performance obtained was not satisfying with those the state-of-the-art catalysts. CoB nanosheets are expected to be highly beneficial for electrochemical applications (for example, ORR) because 1) the synthesis of metal borides by chemical reduction is fast and facile compared with the time consuming synthesis of many other

Figure 1. Schematic diagram for preparation of N-doped carbon nanosheets-CoB nanosheets hybrids

electrocatalysts, 2) CoB is known to undergo in situ transformations during electrochemical reactions like water oxidation, resulting in rougher surfaces and more active sites,<sup>[21]</sup> and 3) engineering the morphology of metal borides to a nanosheet structure can significantly enhance mass transfer properties, exposing more active sites which are of paramount importance in oxygen-related electrocatalysis.

In order to boost the electrocatalytic performance and avoid severe oxidation effects, a good option would be to improve the electron transport between metal boride and electrolyte and couple with reductive materials. Addition of conductive supports, like carbon nanotubes (CNT), graphene, and carbon foams, to metal borides can help through significant reduction in resistive losses. Attempts have been made to grow carbon structures on CoB via processes, like chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and high temperature treatments.[20,22] It is known that the borides prepared by chemical reduction are amorphous and can undergo in-situ structure transformations by the process of annealing.<sup>[23]</sup> In some cases, the chemical composition also changes after treatment at high temperature, showing transformations to bonding configurations. For instance, Ni<sub>2</sub>B was found to be transformed into Ni<sub>3</sub>B when treated at 400 °C in Argon atmosphere. [24] From the understanding on metal borides, one could anticipate that through engineering synthesis processes, the pyrolysis of metal boride in the presence of nitrogen and carbon sources could result in the formation of ORR active M-N<sub>x</sub>-C and M-B moieties distributed on carbon nanostructures.

Herein, we have developed a monometallic-boride/N-doped carbon nanostructure (CoB–N $_x$ ) through simple chemical reduction and annealing processes. The amount of carbon precursors and calcination temperature were found to hold critical influence in the electrochemical performances of as-prepared electrocatalysts. The optimized CoB-N $_x$ -1:2:40-700 (denoted as CoB–N $_x$ :A:B:C-D, where A stands for Co–B, B for urea, C for agarose, and D for annealing temperature) hybrid exhibited remarkably high oxygen reduction activity and stability in alkaline medium. The ORR onset potential and half wave potential for this catalyst were found to be 1.05 and 0.94 V, respectively. Compared with activity of commercial Pt/C, the values are positive by 50 and 70 mV, respectively. Relying on this ORR activity,

later, a rechargeable Zn–air battery was constructed using CoB– $N_x$ -1:2:40-700– $RuO_2$  mixture ( $RuO_2$  is used to catalyze OER part) as the air cathode, which exhibited better open circuit potential, higher maximum power density, and long-term stability when compared to commercial Pt/C– $RuO_2$  mixture.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

Schematic diagram for preparing cobalt boride/N-doped carbon nanosheet hybrid structure is shown in Figure 1. 2D nanosheets of metal boride were synthesized by the simple chemical reduction of cobalt precursors in a sodium borohydride (NaBH<sub>4</sub>) solution, followed by drying in an inert atmosphere. NaBH4 serves as the boron source, reducing agent, and stabilizing element in the chemical process, resulting in an amorphous product.<sup>[25,26]</sup> During this preparation, fast reduction of metal ions is controlled and suppressed by usage of nitrate salts that in turn leads to formation of metal boride nanosheets.[21] The monometallic boride was later annealed with agarose (which is a cheap sugar source) and urea (which is a rich nitrogen source—46 wt%) to obtain N-doped carbon hybrid structures. Urea can decompose to NH<sub>3</sub> at a temperature above 130 °C and lead to the formation of NH2-functionalized agarose. [27] Further increase in temperature converts NH2-functionalized agarose to N-doped carbon nanosheets. The temperature treatment also initiates amorphous to crystalline phase transformation of the monometallic borides. Here, annealing temperature along with the amount of carbon and nitrogen sources has to be carefully controlled and optimised, since the specific nitrogen content and defects on nanosheets affect directly on the material activity. [28,29] Meanwhile, the incorporation of N-doped carbon into the metal boride does not appear to have an effect on its nanosheet morphology. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of CoB-Nx-1:2:40-700 (Figure 2a,b) shows the 2D nanosheet morphology. Figure 2c shows that CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700 maintain a curled nanostructure, suggesting their extremely thin feature and similar structure. The energy dispersive X-ray elemental (EDX) analysis reveals uniform distribution of Co, N, and B on the CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700 catalyst, further confirming the growth of N-doped nanosheets on ultrathin CoB sheets (Figure 2f).

**Figure 2.** a,b) TEM image, c) FESEM image, d) SAED pattern, e)HRTEM image, and f) EDX mapping of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700.

The nanocrystalline nature of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 catalyst is obtained from the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) analysis as shown in Figure 2d. Meanwhile, the lattice fringes in high-resolution transmission electron microscope (TEM) images (Figure 2e) of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 also disclose the nanocrytsallinity and they can be attributed to (101) and (210) planes of CoB (JCPDS card 03–0959).[30,31] However, it is evident from high resolution-TEM (HRTEM) images of pristine CoB that it has an amorphous nature (Figure S1, Supporting Information), revealing no clear lattice fringes. Accordingly, it is clear that there is a structural evolution of the monometallic boride from amorphous to nanocrystalline feature during the temperature treatment processes. To get more idea on structural changes with temperature, the cobalt boride–carbon hybrid structures were annealed at different temperatures and analyzed using X-ray diffraction (XRD) method. The corresponding diffraction patterns shown in **Figure 3**a, reveals the fact, crystallinity varies with the temperature. It is not surprising that the patterns noted for the cobalt boride–carbon hybrid materials correspond to peaks of fcc Co (JCPDS card 15–0806) rather than those for crystalline boride phases. The cobalt borides possess a metal–metalloid nanostructure where metal nanocrystallites are embedded in the matrix of B-rich phases like metal borides, boron oxides, or borates, which are amorphous in nature.[32] The B-rich outer layers protect the nanocrystalline inner metallic layers from the oxidation and growth as suggested by previous studies.[30] Atomic force microscopy was utilized to find the thickness of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40- 700 nanosheets. The thickness was measured to be around 5 nm as shown in Figure S2, Supporting Information.

First order Raman spectra of the different catalysts show their characteristic D (1350 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) and G (1588 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) bands except for the pristine CoB sample (Figure 3b). For all the hybrid samples, *I*D/*I*G ratio indicates the presence of large amount of structural defects in carbon sheets. Structural defects can activate electrochemical reactions and provide sites to trap metalbased species.[29,33] Thus, it enables CoB nanosheets to directly link to carbon sheets to make a hybrid with heterointerfaces, reducing the electrical resistance and, consequently, enhancing ORR performance. The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller surface area and pore size of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 (Figure S3, Supporting Information) were found to be 313 m2 g−<sup>1</sup> and 23.7 nm, respectively, which would be also beneficial for the electrocatalyst. The high surface area mainly comes from the agarose and urea derived carbon support that provides more access to the ORR active sites.[34]

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis for the chemical state of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 confirms the presence of Co, B, N, C, and O with atomic percentages 1.43%, 2.37%, 11.14%, 76.08%, and 8.99%, respectively (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The high-resolution XPS spectrum of C 1s (Figure 3c) can be fitted by four peaks centered at 283.9, 284.8, 286.5, and 288.8 eV BE corresponding to CC (sp<sup>2</sup> ), CC (sp3), CO/CN, and CO, respectively.[35] The presence of CN bond indicates successful N-doping into the carbon matrix. The high-resolution N 1s scan (Figure 3d) can be deconvoluted into three peaks located at 398.2, 399.5, and 402.7 eV binding energy (B.E.), corresponding to pyridinic, pyrrolic, and oxidized nitrogen, respectively.[36] Pyridinic groups are known

**Figure 3.** a) XRD patterns b) Raman analysis of as-synthesized catalysts at different temperatures. XPS spectra of c) C 1s, d) N 1s, e) B 1s, and f) Co 2p for CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700.

to modulate local electronic structures, thereby, reducing the energy barrier required for O2 adsorption and benefitting the electrochemical ORR.[37] The B 1s spectrum of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 (Figure 3e) consists of two subpeaks centered at 187.9 and 189.1 eV BE, which can be attributed to BM and BO bonds, respectively.[24] The interaction of B with the metal species is evident from BM peak, while BO arises due to the presence of oxidized B as a result of prolonged exposure to air. The interaction between boron and metal species can cause the transfer of electrons to the d band of Co from B, which can be understood from the BE shift from the elemental B peak (187.2 eV)[38] to 187.9 eV in CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700. The O 1s XPS spectrum as shown in Figure S5, Supporting Information, can be deconvoluted into two parts in which a peak at 531.7 eV can be assigned to surface O and a peak at 533.4 eV to the adsorbed O. The spectrum does not show any peak corresponding to the lattice O, and the observed peaks mainly come from oxide species on the surface.[39] High-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (HRXPS) spectrum of Co 2p (Figure 3f) reveals an interaction peak between B and Co around 777.8 eV BE. The presence of both oxidized and elemental states of Co in the spectrum confirms that the prolonged exposure to air can oxidase Co to metal oxides and hydroxides as reported in previous works.[21] Furthermore, the effect of engineering electronic structure of N-doped carbon on CoB can be understood by comparing the Co 2p HRXPS spectrum of pristine CoB (Figure S6, Supporting Information) and CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700. The introduction of N-doped carbon has shifted the Co2<sup>+</sup> binding energies to higher levels, suggesting that the N functionalities may interact with Co–B by accepting their electrons.[22] Such electron transfer also reveals the formation of actively coupled heterointerfaces between the nanosheets of CoB and N-doped carbon, promoting the charge transfer effectively during ORR.

The ORR catalytic performances of the catalysts were assessed in a three-electrode cell using 0.1 m KOH as the electrolyte. All potentials in the ORR studies are in reference to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). Initially, the catalysts were screened to understand the effect of annealing temperature on their electrochemical behaviors. **Figure 4**a shows the ORR linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-*D* (*D* = 600, 700, and 850) compared with commercial Pt/C at a rotating speed of 1200 rpm and scanning rate of 5 mV s–1. For all the catalysts, the initial parts of the LSV curves (kinetic controlled region) indicate an exponential increase in current with decrease in potential. The ORR onset potential for CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 was found to be at 1.05 V, which is more positive than that for Pt/C, suggesting that oxygen is electrochemically reduced more easily on CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700. Electrochemical activity in the mixed kinetic/diffusion region can be compared in terms of half-wave potentials (*E*1/2).[40] Among the studied catalysts, half-wave potential increases in the order: Pt/C < CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-850 < CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-600 < CoB–N*x*-1:2:40- 700. The catalyst prepared at 700 °C shows 70 mV positive shift in *E*1/2 compared with that for Pt/C, suggesting that CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 has better ORR kinetics than the commercial Pt/C.

The ORR performance for CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-600 is low compared with the other catalysts, possibly due to the low

**Figure 4.** a) ORR polarization curves of different catalysts prepared at varying temperatures and Pt/C in O2 saturated 0.1 m KOH solution, rotation speed: 1200 rpm. b) CV analysis in O2 saturated and N2 saturated 0.1 m KOH solution of different catalysts prepared by varying the amount of carbon and nitrogen source and annealed at 700 °C. c) ORR polarization curves in O2 saturated 0.1 m KOH solution of Co–N*x*/C-700, Pt/C, and different catalysts prepared by varying the amount of carbon and nitrogen source and annealed at 700 °C. d) Tafel slope values for these catalysts. e) The *i*–*t* chronoamperometric responses of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 and Pt/C. f) Methanol cross over analysis of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 and Pt/C.

conductivity of the catalyst. The previous XRD analysis and Raman spectra had shown that CoB annealed at 600 °C is less crystalline and hold a low degree of graphitization than the other catalysts, respectively. Amorphous materials are generally known to be less conductive than their crystalline counterparts. Also, The high temperature treatment (at 850 °C) may lead to reduced active sites due to the growth in particle size and the subsequent decrease in surface area as reported Masa et al.[41] Thus, the improved ORR performance of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 may come from the enhancement of charge transfer by optimizing active sites in the N-doped carbon structure.

To optimize intrinsic ORR active sites, carbon and nitrogen content must also be tuned to control functionalities of N doping and density of edge defects.[42,43] ORR activity of the cobalt boride annealed at 700 °C with different carbon and nitrogen loading was examined through cyclic voltammetry (CV) in O2 and N2 saturated electrolytes (Figure 4b). The ORR positive peak potential increases in the order of CoB–N*x*-1:1:10- 700 < CoB–N*x*-1:1:20-700 < CoB–N*x*-1:4:80-700 < CoB–N*x*-1:2:40- 700. In addition, CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 demonstrates a higher onset potential than the other catalysts. Figure 4c shows polarization curves for the catalysts with different carbon and nitrogen content. Evidently, varying the amount of carbon and nitrogen sources can significantly affect the onset potential, half wave potential, and current density. Half wave potentials for CoB– N*x*-1:2:40-700 and CoB–N*x*-1:4:80-700 are close to 0.94 V, which is more positive than commercial Pt/C. Moreover, CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 has a higher limiting current density than CoB–N*x*-1:4:80-700, elucidating its better activity. To have more insights on the effect of boron on the electrochemical properties, a control sample was synthesized without any boron source and named as Co–N*x*/C-700. XRD shows successful synthesis of cobalt on N-doped carbon as shown in Figure S7, Supporting Information. From the CV curve (Figure S8, Supporting Information) and linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) of Co–N*x*/C-700 (Figure 4c), onset and half-wave potential for Co–N*x*/C-700 were found to be 0.93 and 0.802 V (vs RHE), which are lower than all the other samples that contain boron species. This clearly elucidates the importance of CoB entity in improving the ORR performance by creating a heterostructure with N-doped carbon. Both the Co–B and Co–N*x*/C can serve as the active sites because they have been proved as catalytic sites for ORR.[19,44] Defects on carbon and N can help to configure new active sites, by trapping the cobalt based species and modify the electronic distribution to improve the reactivity.[45] The CoB and N-doped carbon have constructed heterointerfaces, which lead to fast electron transfer in their electronic structures, thus generating more active sites for ORR.[46]

The LSV for the catalysts at different rotation rates is illustrated in Figures S9–S11,S12a, Supporting Information. Diffusion current density increases with the rotation speed for all the catalysts, exhibiting their ORR capabilities. Electron transfer numbers for the catalysts were obtained from the corresponding Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots (Figures S9–11,S12b, Supporting Information). CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 has the highest electron transfer number *n* ≈ 4, revealing its potential to conduct the ideal 4e– ORR process. Figure 4d displays Tafel slopes from the polarization curves for the catalysts. Among

**Figure 5.** The free energy diagrams for ORR: a) CoB, b) N-doped carbon, and c) the CoB–N*x*. The red dashed box represents the reaction limiting step. d) Side (upper) and top (lower) views of CoB–N*x* heterointerface. The blue, green, brown, and grey circles represent Co, B, C, and N atoms. The corresponding charge density difference plot is shown in (e). The yellow (blue) isosurfaces were drawn at a density of 0.001 (–0.001) e Å−<sup>3</sup> . f) The DOS for CoB, N-doped carbon, and CoB–N*x* heterointerface. The zero-energy indicates the Fermi level.

the catalysts, CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 has the lowest Tafel slope (76.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ), confirming enhanced kinetics. Durability is also an important factor for the application. In order to study the stability of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 and Pt/C, chronoamperometric measurements were carried out as shown in Figure 4e. The relative current density of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 was reduced by only 4% despite the prolonged operations of beyond 12 h, while that of Pt/C was reduced to 77% just after 6 h. To have more insights on the effect of carbon on the stability, Co 2p HRXPS spectrums of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 and pristine CoB as shown in Figure S17, Supporting Information, were analyzed after the long term stability test (chronoamperometric test for 12 h). Comparing the two spectrums, it is clear that the peak corresponding to Co–B is retained only in the heterostructure, while it completely disappears in the pristine CoB, indicating that the heterostructure not only stabilizes CoB but also prevents the severe oxidation during the electrochemical process. However, the reduction in Co–B intensity may be due to transformations to hydrated cobalt oxide species at surface level. Previous studies by Chen et al. and Masa et al. found that such transformations are confined to surface level and core still can remain as metal boride.[31,18] Electrocatalytic methanol crossover for CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700 and Pt/C is also analyzed (Figure 4f). Upon injection of methanol into the O2 saturated electrolyte, the characteristic ORR current drops down significantly for Pt/C, while it does not change much for CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700, suggesting the superior methanol tolerance and robustness of CoB–N*x*-1:2:40-700.

To understand the origin of the enhanced ORR catalytic activity of the CoB–N*x* heterointerfaces, we performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The heterointerfaces were simulated using a slab geometry consisting of N-doped graphene and five atomic layers of CoB, as shown in **Figure 5**d. Figure 5a–c displays calculated free energies (*G*) of the intermediate states along the reaction pathway for ORR; the corresponding atomic geometries are also shown in Figures S14–S16, Supporting Information. For CoB, the reduction of O\* should overcome the potential barrier of 1.5 V to proceed. In contrast, all the involved reactions for N-doped carbon and CoB–N*x* heterointerfaces are exergonic at *U* = 0 V. The limiting reactions for the N-doped carbon and CoB–N*x* are the reductions of O\* and O2, respectively. The corresponding limiting potentials (*U*lim), the maximum external potential that the reactions still remain exothermic, are 0.24 and 0.50 V. It is noticeable that the CoB–N*x* heterostructure has the highest limiting potential, which accounts for the best catalytic activity for ORR. The charge density difference plot further suggests that the heterointerface formation leads to a substantial charge redistribution at the interface and graphene (Figure 5e), affecting the adsorptions of reactant molecules and boosting the reaction kinetics.[47,48] Figure 5f shows the density of states of CoB, N-doped carbon, and CoB–N*x* heterointerface structures. The CoB–N*x* heterointerface has abundant density of states (DOS) near the Fermi level, implying an enhanced electric conductivity. These results account for the improved catalytic activity of the CoB–N*x* heterointerface structure, validating the experimental

Figure 6. a) Comparison of ORR performance by different catalysts prepared at varying temperatures and Pt/C. b) Comparison of ORR performance by different catalysts prepared by varying the amount of carbon and nitrogen sources and Pt/C. c) Open circuit voltage measurements of zinc-air batteries with CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C/RuO<sub>2</sub> as the cathode catalysts. d) Polarization and power density curves of the zinc-air batteries with CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C/RuO<sub>2</sub> as the cathode catalysts. e) Cycling test for these zinc-air batteries at a current density of 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. f) Photograph showing the homemade zinc-air batteries with CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> as cathode catalyst powering a LED bulb.

analysis.  $^{[49]}$  In addition, this analysis helps in understanding the CoB–N $_x$  heterointerfaces as the most active site for ORR.

Motivated by the excellent ORR performance of CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700 (Figure 6b), a rechargeable Zn-air battery by utilizing CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> mixture as the air cathode was prepared for test. For comparison, another rechargeable Zn-air battery utilizing Pt/C/RuO<sub>2</sub> mixture as the cathode was prepared. The open circuit potential (OCP) for CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> is found to be 1.50 V, which is higher than that for Pt/C/RuO<sub>2</sub>, revealing its better electrocatalytic performance (Figure 6c). Figure 6d displays the polarization and corresponding power density curves of these Zn-air batteries. The CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/ RuO<sub>2</sub> catalyst shows a peak power density of 130.9 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of Pt-RuO<sub>2</sub> with 126.8 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>. The charge-discharge curves of CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> and Pt/C-RuO<sub>2</sub> at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> illustrate the superior stability of CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO<sub>2</sub> even after 100 h (Figure 6e). Meanwhile, Pt/C-RuO<sub>2</sub> suffers serious voltage drops within 100 cycles, possibly due to the severe aggregation of noble metals as a result of Ostwald ripening and carbon corrosion. These results indicate the superiority of the CoB-N<sub>i</sub>-1:2:40-700 catalyst for development of long-lasting energy conversion technology like metal-air battery. Figure 6f shows that the Zn-air batteries using CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700/RuO2 can light up an light emitting diode (LED) for more than 12 h. Moreover, compared with reported transition metal based materials (Figure S18, Supporting Information),  $CoB-N_x$ -1:2:40-700 is found to be one of the best performing ORR electrocatalysts.

#### 3. Conclusion

In conclusion, we have investigated the effect of crystallinity and annealing temperature of cobalt boride nanosheets on electrocatalytic performance. Hybridizing cobalt boride with N-doped carbon was found to be effective in boosting the oxygen reduction performance. After optimizing the amount of carbon and nitrogen sources, CoB-N<sub>x</sub>-1:2:40-700 displayed the highest ORR activity in a 0.1 M KOH solution with an onset potential of 1.05 V and a half wave potential of 0.94 V which are more positive in comparison to those of commercial Pt/C. The catalyst also showed superior durability and methanol tolerance compared with commercial Pt/C. The excellent performance of the catalyst may come from combined synergetic effects from like 1) its nanocrystalline-nanosheets nature capable of providing more active sites and surface area, 2) the incorporation of the N-doped carbon to the metal boride nanosheets capable of improving the intrinsic ORR activity, and 3) the heterointerfaces between the nanosheets of CoB and N-doped carbon that cause the charge redistribution at the interface, affecting the adsorptions of reactant molecules and thus, enhancing the ORR kinetics. In addition, CoB-Nx-1:2:40-700 with RuO2 was utilized as the air cathode in a rechargeable Zn-air battery,

for various applications.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

**ENERG** 

Flectrochemical Evaluation—Flectrochemical Measurements. Electrochemical analysis was conducted in a CHI 660D workstation coupled with rotating disk electrode (RDE, Pine) in a three electrode cell system. A Pt-sheet was used as the counter electrode and Ag/AgCl as the reference electrode for the electrochemical analysis. The 1.0 M KOH electrolyte was prepared by using potassium hydroxide (KOH) pellets and ultrapure H<sub>2</sub>O. Initial ORR studies were conducted through cyclic voltammograms (CV) in O2 and N2 saturated 0.1 M KOH solutions at a scan rate of 5 mV  $s^{-1}$ . Later, RDE measurements were carried out in O<sub>2</sub> saturated 0.1 м KOH solutions at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. All the

ORR polarization curves were compensated by 95% iR to correct for the

Ohmic drop of the solution.

All the potential values mentioned in this manuscript were converted from Ag/AgCl to RHE by using the equation

$$E_{(RHE)} = E_{Ag/AgCI} + 0.059pH + 0.1976$$
 (1)

The electron transfer number (n) was calculated using the Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equation[1]

$$\frac{1}{J} = \frac{1}{J_k} + \frac{1}{J_L} = \frac{1}{J_k} + \frac{1}{R\omega^{\frac{1}{2}}}$$
 (2)

$$B = 0.62nFC_0 (D_0)^{2/3} v^{-1/6}$$
(3)

where  $J_1$ ,  $J_2$ , and  $J_1$  are the measured, kinetic, and diffusion-limiting current densities, respectively,  $\omega$  is the angular velocity, n refers to the electron number, F is the Faraday constant,  $C_0$  refers to the bulk concentration of  $O_2$ ,  $D_0$  indicates the diffusion coefficient of  $O_2$ , and  $\nu$  is the kinematic viscosity of the electrolyte.

Electrochemical Evaluation—Theoretical Calculation Methods: Firstprinciples DFT calculations were performed using the projectoraugmented wave (PAW) method<sup>[50]</sup> and the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) exchange-correlation functional[51] as implemented in the Vienna Ab-initio Simulation Package. [52,53] The plane-wave basis set with a cutoff energy of 550 eV was adopted in all calculations. N/C and CoB were modeled by N-doped three-layered graphite and CoB slab (Figure S10, Supporting Information), respectively. During structural optimization, all the atoms were allowed to relax until the force exerted on each atom was less than 0.02 eV Å $^{-1}.$  The Brillouin zone was sampled using a  $2\times3\times1$ mesh for N/C,  $2 \times 4 \times 1$  mesh for CoB slab, and  $1 \times 3 \times 1$  for G/N-CoB heterostructure, respectively. The free energies (G) of adsorbates and molecules were obtained by a formula  $G = E_{DFT} + ZPE - TS$ , where E<sub>DET</sub>, ZPE, and S represent the DFT total energy, zero-point energy, and entropy, respectively. The temperature T was set to 300 K.

Electrochemical Evaluation—Zinc-Air Battery Testing: Home-made zinc-air battery was assembled for traditional stack-type battery evaluation. The procedures for battery assembling were: a clean hydrophilic carbon paper was attached to gas diffusion layer (GDL) to form the carbon paper/GDL hybrid cathode. Subsequently, a certain amount of electrocatalyst ink was transferred to carbon paper substrate through drop casting method such that the loading was fixed at 4 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The electrocatalyst ink was prepared in the same way as described for ORR polarization measurements. A polished zinc plate was taken as the anode for the air battery. The electrolyte used was  $6.0~{\rm M}$  KOH with  $0.20 \text{ M ZnCl}_2$  (ZnCl<sub>2</sub> dissolves in KOH and forms zincate (Zn(OH)<sub>4</sub><sup>2</sup>-), which ensured the reversible zinc based electrochemical reactions at the anode). Cleaned and hot-pressed nickel foams were used the current collectors in the battery assembly. All the Zn-air batteries were tested under ambient atmosphere using an LAND-CT2001A system.

## 4. Experimental Section

Synthesis of Cobalt Boride (Co-B): The cobalt boride powders were prepared by chemical reduction of cobalt nitrate in deionized water. First, 100 mL of ultrapure  $H_2O$  (18.2  $M\Omega$ , Millipore) in a three neck conical flask was purged with N2 and after 30 min, the N2 gas was replaced by Ar. To prepare a solution A, 5 mmoles of cobalt (II) nitrate hexahydrate (Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, Sigma-Aldrich) was added. The solution was stirred to dissolve the salt completely around 30 min while maintaining the Ar atmosphere. The solution B was prepared by dissolving 15 mmoles of sodium borohydride (NaBH<sub>4</sub>) in N<sub>2</sub> prepurged 10 mL ultrapure H2O. The freshly-prepared solution B was added drop by drop using a syringe, in an ice bath, to solution A and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. The precipitates were collected by centrifugation and were washed with degassed ultrapure H2O and ethanol for three times each, sequentially. The products were dried under vacuum for 24 h at 60 °C.

providing an open-circuit voltage of 1.50 V with excellent

cycling stability. This work may contribute to the development

of nonprecious metal based bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts

Synthesis of Nitrogen-Doped Binary Cobalt Boride-Porous Carbon Complex Material (Co-B-N<sub>x</sub>): The Co-B-N<sub>x</sub> was prepared by the pyrolysis of mixture of cobalt boride powder (Co-B), and nitrogen and carbon sources. First, a mixture of Co-B powders, urea, and agarose (nitrogen and carbon sources, respectively) in a mortar was grounded by a pestle around 20 min. Second, the fine powders were transferred into a crucible boat and placed in a tube reactor. Third, the tube reactor was treated at different temperature for one hour by a heating rate of 4.5 °C per minute. For the optimization of the catalyst, the different ratios of Co-B powders, urea, and agarose were used. Hence, the following notation was used with respect to these ratios (Co-B-N<sub>x</sub>:a:b:c, where a stands for Co-B, while b for urea and c for agarose). For example, if 25 mg, 50 mg, and 1000 mg of Co-B, urea, and agarose, respectively, the following notation was used: Co-B-N<sub>v</sub>:1:2:40. Furthermore, different pyrolysis temperatures, such as 600, 700, and 850 °C, were examined. The final notation was Co-B-N<sub>x</sub>·1:2:40-T (where T stands for temperature). After cooling at room temperature, the powders were taken for structural and electrochemical characterizations.

Sample with boron was prepared by grinding a mixture of cobalt nitrate hexahydrate, urea, and agarose (1:4:80) and annealed it at 700 °C in N2 atmosphere. Later, the obtained powder was washed in acidic solution and DI water to remove the oxide particles and the obtained sample was represented as Co-N<sub>x</sub>/C-700.

Material Characterization: The surface structure and morphology of the samples were studied by field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM, JEOL JSM 6701F). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and selected area diffraction (SAED) pattern were taken at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV in a JEOL 2100F TEM. Phase analysis of all the powder samples were conducted by X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns using the Cu K $\alpha$  radiation ( $\lambda$  = 1.5414 Å) in Bragg-3 Brentano configuration. Raman analysis was conducted in a Renishaw Invia Reflex Raman spectrometer with 514 nm as the excitation wavelength. The surface electronic states and composition of the catalysts were carried out by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) utilizing Kratos AXIS Supra setup.

Electrochemical Evaluation-Working Electrode Preparation: Glassy carbon electrodes were initially polished using aqueous alumina suspension on felt polishing pads and washed with ethanol and ultrapure H<sub>2</sub>O. Catalyst aliquot was prepared by sonicating 5 mg of as prepared catalyst for 10 min to ensure a homogeneous suspension in 1.0 mL of solution containing 920  $\mu$ L of ethanol, 40  $\mu$ L 5 wt% Nafion solution, and 40  $\mu$ L of ultra-purified water. Later, 12  $\mu$ L of the catalyst aliquot was drop-casted onto a glassy carbon (GC) disk electrode (4 mm diameter) and dried at room temperature.

#### Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

V.J. and J.M.V.N. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported by the AcRF Tier 1 grant (RG118/18 and RG105/19), provided by Ministry of Education in Singapore.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

cobalt boride, heterointerfaces, oxygen reduction reaction, zinc–air batteries

> Received: January 15, 2021 Revised: February 21, 2021 Published online: March 14, 2021

- [1] E. M. Miner, T. Fukushima, D. Sheberla, L. Sun, Y. Surendranath, M. Dincă, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10942.
- [2] R. Zhao, Q. Li, X. Jiang, S. Huang, G. Fu, J.-M. Lee, *Mater. Chem. Front.* **2021**, *5*, 1033.
- [3] S. H. Ahn, X. Yu, A. Manthiram, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606534.
- [4] V. Jose, H. Hu, E. Edison, W. Manalastas, H. Ren, P. Kidkhunthod, S. Sreejith, A. Jayakumar, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, M. Srinivasan, J. Choi, J.-M. Lee, *Small Methods* **2021**, *5*, 2000751.
- [5] C.-Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z.-Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. Hou, F.-Q. Bai, H.-X. Zhang, T.-Y. Ma, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1602420.
- [6] R. Zhao, J. Chen, Z. Chen, X. Jiang, G. Fu, Y. Tang, W. Jin, J.-M. Lee, S. Huang, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 4539.
- [7] J. Fu, D. U. Lee, F. M. Hassan, L. Yang, Z. Bai, M. G. Park, Z. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 5617.
- [8] R. Zhao, Q. Li, Z. Chen, V. Jose, X. Jiang, G. Fu, J.-M. Lee, S. Huang, *Carbon N. Y.* **2020**, *164*, 398.
- [9] D. Stock, S. Dongmo, J. Janek, D. Schröder, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1287.
- [10] G. Li, X. Wang, J. Fu, J. Li, M. G. Park, Y. Zhang, G. Lui, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 4977.
- [11] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 546.
- [12] Y. Xiong, Y. Yang, X. Feng, F. J. DiSalvo, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 4412.
- [13] H. Wang, J. Li, K. Li, Y. Lin, J. Chen, L. Gao, V. Nicolosi, X. Xiao, J.-M. Lee, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 1354.
- [14] H. Wang, J.-M. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 10604.
- [15] V. Jose, A. Jayakumar, J. Lee, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 1485.
- [16] P. Prabhu, V. Jose, J.-M. Lee, *Matter* **2020**, *2*, 526.
- [17] J. M. V. Nsanzimana, Y. Peng, Y. Y. Xu, L. Thia, C. Wang, B. Y. Xia, X. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1701475.
- [18] J. Masa, P. Weide, D. Peeters, I. Sinev, W. Xia, Z. Sun, C. Somsen, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1502313.
- [19] J. Ma, N. Li, Q. Zhang, X. Zhang, J. Wang, K. Li, X. Hao, J. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2833.
- [20] K. Elumeeva, J. Masa, D. Medina, E. Ventosa, S. Seisel, Y. U. Kayran, A. Genç, T. Bobrowski, P. Weide, J. Arbiol, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 21122.

- [21] J. M. V. Nsanzimana, L. Gong, R. Dangol, V. Reddu, V. Jose, B. Y. Xia, Q. Yan, J. Lee, X. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1901503.
- [22] Q. Hu, G. Li, Z. Han, Z. Wang, X. Huang, X. Chai, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, C. He, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1901130.
- [23] J. Masa, C. Andronescu, H. Antoni, I. Sinev, S. Seisel, K. Elumeeva, S. Barwe, S. Marti-Sanchez, J. Arbiol, B. Roldan Cuenya, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 235.
- [24] J. Masa, I. Sinev, H. Mistry, E. Ventosa, M. de la Mata, J. Arbiol, M. Muhler, B. R. Cuenya, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700381.
- [25] J. van Wonterghem, S. Mørup, C. J. W. Koch, S. W. Charles, S. Wells, *Nature* **1986**, *322*, 622.
- [26] L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606793.
- [27] S. Han, X. Hu, J. Wang, X. Fang, Y. Zhu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1800955.
- [28] G. Panomsuwan, N. Saito, T. Ishizaki, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2015**, *17*, 6227.
- [29] L. Zhang, J. M. T. A. Fischer, Y. Jia, X. Yan, W. Xu, X. Wang, J. Chen, D. Yang, H. Liu, L. Zhuang, M. Hankel, D. J. Searles, K. Huang, S. Feng, C. L. Brown, X. Yao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 10757.
- [30] N. Xu, G. Cao, Z. Chen, Q. Kang, H. Dai, P. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 12379.
- [31] Z. Chen, Q. Kang, G. Cao, N. Xu, H. Dai, P. Wang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2018**, *43*, 6076.
- [32] U. B. Demirci, P. Miele, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2010**, *12*, 14651.
- [33] Y. Jia, L. Zhang, A. Du, G. Gao, J. Chen, X. Yan, C. L. Brown, X. Yao, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 9532.
- [34] V. Sahu, R. B. Marichi, G. Singh, R. K. Sharma, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5*, 8747.
- [35] Y. Su, Y. Zhu, H. Jiang, J. Shen, X. Yang, W. Zou, J. Chen, C. Li, *Nanoscale* **2014**, *6*, 15080.
- [36] G. Nam, J. Park, S. T. Kim, D. Bin Shin, N. Park, Y. Kim, J. S. Lee, J. Cho, *Nano Lett.* **2014**, *14*, 1870.
- [37] B. You, N. Jiang, M. Sheng, W. S. Drisdell, J. Yano, Y. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 7068.
- [38] S. Carenco, D. Portehault, C. Boissière, N. Mézailles, C. Sanchez, *Chem. Rev.* **2013**, *113*, 7981.
- [39] M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, A. P. Grosvenor, L. W. M. Lau, A. R. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2011**, *257*, 2717.
- [40] J. Wang, G. Han, L. Wang, L. Du, G. Chen, Y. Gao, Y. Ma, C. Du, X. Cheng, P. Zuo, G. Yin, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1704282.
- [41] T. Tan, P. Han, H. Cong, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 5620.
- [42] S. H. Noh, M. H. Seo, J. Kang, T. Okajima, B. Han, T. Ohsaka, *NPG Asia Mater* **2016**, *8*, e312.
- [43] H. Jiang, J. Gu, X. Zheng, M. Liu, X. Qiu, L. Wang, W. Li, Z. Chen, X. Ji, J. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 322.
- [44] Y. Guo, P. Yuan, J. Zhang, Y. Hu, I. S. Amiinu, X. Wang, J. Zhou, H. Xia, Z. Song, Q. Xu, S. Mu, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 1894.
- [45] Q. Yang, Y. Jia, F. Wei, L. Zhuang, D. Yang, J. Liu, X. Wang, S. Lin, P. Yuan, X. Yao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 6122.
- [46] Y. Gao, N. Zhang, C. Wang, F. Zhao, Y. Yu, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 666.
- [47] Z. Liang, W. Zhou, S. Gao, R. Zhao, H. Zhang, Y. Tang, J. Cheng, T. Qiu, B. Zhu, C. Qu, W. Guo, Q. Wang, R. Zou, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1905075.
- [48] Y. Liu, Q. Li, R. Si, G.-D. Li, W. Li, D.-P. Liu, D. Wang, L. Sun, Y. Zhang, X. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606200.
- [49] T. Wang, G. Yu, J. Liu, X. Huang, W. Chen, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2019**, *21*, 1773.
- [50] P. E. Blöchl, *Phys. Rev. B* **1994**, *50*, 17953.
- [51] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [52] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169.
- [53] G. Kresse, D. Joubert, *Phys. Rev. B* **1999**, *59*, 1758.