---
source: Kashyap 等 - 2017 - Activity Tuning of Cobalt Ferrite Nanoparticles Anchored on N‐Doped Reduced Graphene Oxide as a Pote.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 43.718s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:08:09.026119Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/slct.201701684

## ■ Materials Science inc. Nanomaterials & Polymers

# Activity Tuning of Cobalt Ferrite Nanoparticles Anchored on N-Doped Reduced Graphene Oxide as a Potential Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalyst by Zn Substitution in the Spinel Matrix

Varchaswal Kashyap, [a, b] Santosh K. Singh, [a, b] and Sreekumar Kurungot\*[a, b]

Development of highly efficient and durable ORR catalysts by using non-platinum group metals (such as Co, Fe, Mn, and Zn) is a challenging task in the forward path towards the realization of low-cost energy devices in the commercial stream. The present work deals with an effective strategy wherein an efficient Pt-free electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is prepared by stoichiometrically substituting some fraction of Fe with Zn in cobalt ferrite and anchoring these spinel nanoparticles on nitrogen doped reduced graphene oxide (N-rGO). Zn substitution is found to be significantly altering the ratio of Fe<sup>2+</sup>/Fe<sup>3+</sup> in the cobalt ferrite nanocrystal system with a concomitant promotional influence on its electrocatalytic activity towards ORR. The nanoparticle compo-

sition with a Co, Fe and Zn molar ratio of 1.0:1.7:0.3, represented by the formula CoFe $_{1.7}$ Zn $_{0.3}$ O $_4$ (CFZn(0.3)), supported over N-rGO has shown 10 mV and 20 mV positive shift in the onset and half-wave potentials, respectively, for ORR in 0.1 M KOH in comparison to the nanoparticles of CoFe $_2$ O $_4$  supported over N-rGO (CF/N-rGO). The optimum Zn substitution is found to be narrowing down the difference with the state-of-the-art Pt/C for ORR by 100 and 110 mV in terms of the onset and half-wave potentials, respectively. Most significantly, the homemade catalyst is found to be clearly outperforming the Pt catalyst in terms of the limiting current density and electrochemical durability.

#### Introduction

The continuously growing gap between the energy requirement and availability along with the stringent environmental regulations in place to enforce gradual switch over to clean energy technologies have invited substantial attention on renewable energy storage and conversion devices. The nextgeneration energy devices like polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs),[1] and metal air batteries[2] have great potential to overcome these issues related to the ever increasing energy demand and environmental impact. In spite of having efficient technologies in place for these systems, cost and durability of the state-of-the-art electrocatalysts make their market penetration extremely difficult.[3] Especially, due to the sluggish kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), Pt has invariably become the major ingredient in the cathode of a PEMFC and metal air batteries. [4] Alloys of Pt with other nonnoble metals have the capability to perform better compared to pure Pt systems in terms of overpotential for ORR, but, the systems still suffer from the issues related to cost and durability. To come out of this juncture, it is important to ensure that the electrodes for the future energy systems will be free of Pt and other noble metals. Considering the fact that no other single metal component system is as active as the Pt systems for facilitating ORR, the success of realizing Pt or noble metal-free systems for ORR is entirely depending on how well one can design a multi-metallic system by effectively making use of synergistic interactions and electronic modulations to favour ORR. This requires judicious selection of the component materials, fixing the compositions to the optimum levels and development of strategies to anchor the active components on a conducting support which can further contribute towards activity modulation by facilitating faster electron transfer.

In this context, there has been a significant effort to explore various transition metal derivatives such as oxides, <sup>[6]</sup> oxynitrides, <sup>[7]</sup> chalcogenides, <sup>[8]</sup> and their hybrids with heteroatom-doped carbons for ORR as Pt-free alternatives. There is also increasing focus on developing hybrid catalysts comprising of the above-mentioned Pt-free systems with various graphitic carbon substrates by building synergistic interactions through heteroatom doping. <sup>[2c,9]</sup> Among such systems, the spinel oxides like MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, <sup>[9b,10]</sup> CoMn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, <sup>[2b]</sup> Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, <sup>[2a,11]</sup> Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, <sup>[12]</sup> and CuCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> <sup>[9c]</sup> covalently linked with nitrogen doped graphene (NGr) have been explored as alternative catalysts with promising potentials. Some of them, especially the spinel cobaltites, have been widely investigated as efficient bi-functional catalysts for facilitating both ORR and oxygen evolution reaction (OER). In an interesting work by Yang *et. al.*, it has been reported that

 <sup>[</sup>a] V. Kashyap, S. K. Singh, Dr. S. Kurungot
Physical and Materials Chemistry Division
CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pune 411008, India
E-mail: k.sreekumar@ncl.res.in

<sup>[</sup>b] V. Kashyap, S. K. Singh, Dr. S. Kurungot Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research Anusandhan Bhawan, 2 Rafi Marg, New Delhi 110 001, India

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201701684

CoFe2O4/graphene nanohybrid works as an efficient bi-functional electrocatalyst for both ORR and OER.[13] The reported overpotentials for ORR and OER for this system compared to the PtC catalyst are 136 and 80 mV, respectively. A recent report by our group highlights a system based on CoFe2O4 nanoparticles supported over N-rGO as an efficient electrocatalyst towards ORR.[14] The reported catalyst displayed an ORR overpotential of 110 mV and a half-wave potential (dE1/2) of 120 mV in comparison to PtC, all the while displaying excellent durability. Apart from the synergistic interactions operating between N-rGO and CoFe2O4, spatial separation of the catalyst particles by using activated carbon as a spacer also played a critical role in substantially reducing the overpotential.[15] These results clearly reveal that with a judicious strategy in place to essentially tune the intrinsic activity, electrical conductivity, and mass transfer requirements, it is practically achievable to reach a performance zone offered by the Pt catalysts.

The present work aims to explore how the possible electronic modulations generated by substituting some portion of Fe by Zn in the spinel lattice of cobalt ferrite nanocrystals supported over N-rGO can favorably influence to reduce the overpotential for ORR. In spinel metal oxides, oxygen ions are packed in cubic arrangement (ccp) and metal atoms share the octahedral and tetrahedral sites.[16] Spinel oxides have mixed valency (M2<sup>+</sup> and M3<sup>+</sup>) which involves the faster movement of electrons during the catalytic process by following hopping mechanism. For a normal spinel, the tetrahedral sites are occupied by divalent metal atoms and the octahedral sites by the trivalent metal atoms.[16a] In a real system, partial inversion can take place by interchanging the sites of the trivalent and bivalent metal atoms to some extent, which follows the general formula:

$$(M_{\sigma}^{II}Fe_{1}^{III}\sigma)(M_{1}^{II}\sigma Fe_{1}^{III}\sigma)O_{4}$$

where, (1-s) represents the inversion parameter for the spinel structures. Even though cobalt ferrite (CoFe2O4) based systems have been studied as magnetic materials and a general heterogeneous catalysts, their electrochemical applications are not thoroughly investigated with the consideration of the inversion parameter as a possible activity modulating factor. The present work, therefore, is a focused attempt to understand how the overpotential for ORR can be tuned by manipulating the extent of inversion of CoFe2O4 through Zn substitution. Here, we have synthesized Zn substituted cobalt ferrite with the compositional variation represented as CoFe2-x ZnxO4 (x= 0–0.3), following a solvothermal synthesis procedure.[16b,17] The composition corresponding to x=0.3 displayed high ORR activity in terms of the onset and half-wave potentials (E1/2). Zn substituted cobalt ferrite is supposed to be a mixed spinel due to the preference of the Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions to occupy in the tetrahedral sites by replacing the stoichiometric amount of the Fe3<sup>+</sup> ions present in the tetrahedral site of the inverse spinel lattice of CoFe2O4. However, the occupation of Zn2<sup>+</sup> in cobalt ferrite matrix generates oxygen vacancies which are related to catalytic enhancement.[18] This controlled alteration in the spinel lattice composition along with the synergistic interactive benefits achieved by anchoring the spinel nanoparticles on the nitrogen doped reduced graphene oxide(N-rGO) surface is found to be significantly helping the system to reduce the overpotential towards ORR.

## Results and Discussion

Scheme 1 is showing a schematic presentation for the synthesis of N-rGO supported Zn-substituted cobalt ferrite nanocrystal-

Scheme 1. Schematic illustration of the process involved in the controlled distribution of the Zn-substituted cobalt ferrite nanoparticles on N-rGO followed by spatially separating the N-rGO sheets with the help of Vulcan carbon to ensure better accessibility of the dispersed ferrite nanoparticles.

lites. As illustrated in the experimental section, the synthesis of the catalyst involves a three-step process: the first step involves the synthesis of N-rGO using ammonium hydroxide as the nitrogen precursor followed by the second step, which takes care of the in-situ decoration of the Zn-substituted cobalt ferrite nanoparticles on N-rGO. In the third step, Vulcan carbon was added to spatially separate the N-rGO layers bearing the cobalt ferrite nanoparticles to ensure better accessibility of the active sites in the system. The scheme clearly highlights the key steps involved in the preparation route.

The morphology and structure of the Zn substituted cobalt ferrite, and its Zn-free parent samples were explored by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis. Figure 1 shows the TEM and HRTEM images of the unsupported CF, CFZn(0.1), CFZn(0.2), CFZn(0.3) and the N-rGO supported CFZn (0.3), i. e., CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO, samples. Figure 1a, 1b, 1c, and 1d show that the Zn-free and Zn-substituted cobalt ferrite particles are nanocrystalline in nature, which is also revealed by their corresponding diffused rings of the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns presented in the inset of the respective images. From the discussion, as can be seen in a later part of the manuscript, it is also observed that, along with the nanocrystalline nature of the CFZn particles, the surface of the particles bears a carbon layer due to the decomposition of the acetate salts. The size of the particles is found to be in the range of 3–6 nm. The same size distribution could be

Figure 1. (a), (b), (c) and (d) are the TEM images of the Zn-free (CF) and Zn-substituted (CFZn(0.1), CFZn(0.2) and CFZn(0.3)) cobalt ferrite nanoparticles. The diffused rings in the selected area electron diffraction patterns (SAED), which is a characteristic of the nanocrystalline particles, are presented in the inset of the images. Images (e) and (f) are the TEM images of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO. Image (f) represents the nanocrystalline nature of the particles with a size of 3–6 nm and a d-spacing value of 0.48 nm corresponding to the (111) plane of CFZn(0.3).[16b]

maintained after their decoration on N-rGO, as evident from the TEM images of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO presented in Figure 1e and 1f. Unlike the unsupported case where the systems are supposed to be prone towards sintering and electrochemical leaching, anchoring of the particles on N-rGO has been proved as an efficient method to overcome such limitations in addition to the benefit of having a conductive backbone.[19] Doping of nitrogen in the graphene framework provides nucleating and anchoring sites for the growth of the nanoparticles during the solvothermal synthesis. Such sites, while playing a key role in anchoring the nanoparticles, can influence the active sites located on the substrate and induce electronic modulations due to the synergistic interactions originated due to the modified electron density and lattice overlapping. Dispersion on the graphene substrate through the intervention of the doped nitrogen atoms is also expected to improve the corrosion resistance of the material.[20] The size-controlled (3- 6 nm) and aggregate-free dispersion of CFZn(0.3) on N-rGO validates healthy coexistence of the moieties on the fertile surface of N-rGO. Figure 1f exhibits the single crystalline nature of the nanoparticles with an estimated d-spacing value of 0.48 nm corresponding to the (111) plane of CFZn(0.3).[16b] Furthermore, the substitution of Zn in the cobalt ferrite nanoparticles has been confirmed through EDAX analysis (Figure S1, Supporting Information), which shows the distribution of Zn in the system along with the cobalt and iron atoms.

A more insightful information on the spinel nature of CoFe2 xZnxO4 and the corresponding metal content in the samples has been gained through powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) analysis and inductively coupled plasma-adsorption energy spectroscopy (ICP-AES) analysis (experimental details are given in ESI), respectively. In the ferrite structure, Zn substitution can be effected in the crystal structure of either in the place of cobalt or iron.[16b,17] Here, in the adopted synthesis procedure, we have substituted Zn for iron whereas the possible extent of cobalt in octahedral sites remains the same. The PXRD pattern presented in Figure 2a matches with cobalt ferrite (JCPDS 22–1086). The occupation of the octahedral and tetrahedral sites varies with the Zn-substitution, and hence the lattice parameter also varies accordingly.[6b,21] The PXRD profile presented in Figure 2a indicates the intense peak at the 2q value of 35.68 corresponding to the (311) plane of the cobalt ferrite, whereas, less intense peaks appear at the 2q values of 42.8, 56.8, and, 62.38. These 2q values are marked for the (400), (511) and (440) for the respective planes of cobalt ferrite (JCPDS 22–1086).[13] Thus, from the PXRD profiles, it could be confirmed that the solvothermal synthesis conditions and thermal decomposition of the acetate salt predominantly lead to the formation of the spinel structure. The presence of less crystalline carbon on the nanocrystals hinders the diffraction intensity from the crystalline nanoparticles. In the PXRD spectra presented in Figure 2a, a broad peak was observed at a 2q value of 268, which changes its position with respect to the degree of Zn substitution in the system due to the variation in degree of graphitization.[22] The observed peak arises from less crystalline carbon, which is expected to be formed from the decomposition of the acetate

**Figure 2.** (a) PXRD profiles of the cobalt ferrite (CF) and unsupported Zn substituted cobalt ferrite nanocrystals prepared through the solvothermal process, (b) PXRD profiles of CFZn(0.3) before (black line) and after (red line) annealing in air for 4 h at 600 °C, (c) PXRD profiles of the Zn substituted cobalt ferrite nanocrystals supported over N-doped reduced graphene oxide, (d) TGA profiles for the unsupported and N-rGO supported CFZn(0.3).

salt during the hydrothermal treatment. Even though some specific crystal planes corresponding to the spinel phase are less intense in Figure 2a, such peaks are well resolved, once the sample was subjected to calcination at 600 °C for 4 h in air (Figure 2b). Annealing of the catalyst at high temperature allows the nanoparticles to recrystallise and form bigger grain size.[23] Moreover, for the better comparison, the parent cobalt ferrite nanoparticles were also annealed at 600 °C for 4 h and a shift in the intensity of the peak was noted (Supporting Information, Figure S2a). In order to understand the effect of Zn<sup>2+</sup>substitution in the cobalt ferrite lattice, Rietveld refinement was performed for the annealed sample. In the refined spectra the lattice parameter was observed to be increasing from the parent cubic cobalt ferrite (Fd $\bar{3}$ m, a=8.391) structure to CFZn(0.3) (Fd $\bar{3}$ m, a = 8.542). The observed change in the lattice parameter proves the concept of Zn<sup>2+</sup> substitution in the cobalt ferrite lattices. The PXRD profiles of the N-rGO supported catalysts are presented in Figure 2c. A comparison of Figure 2a and 2c clearly indicates that the spinel phases present in the unsupported systems are completely retained in their N-rGO supported counterparts as well. Also, an increased intensity of the peak corresponding to the crystalline graphitic carbon (002) plane is observed for the supported catalysts in Figure 2c, justifying the higher graphitic carbon content in these systems. To estimate the percentage loading of the ferrite nanoparticles over N-rGO, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) has been performed under an air atmosphere with a temperature ramp of 10 °C min<sup>-1</sup> up to 600 °C. The corresponding comparative TGA profiles for CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO and its unsupported counterpart, CFN(0.3), are presented in Figure 2d. The weight loss in the temperature range of 250-300 °C in the case of CFZn(0.3) is attributed to the burning of the carbon deposition over the metal oxide surface. In the case of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO,

the weight loss of nearly 10% occurred up to 100°C is expected to be originated from the moisture content in the sample. Followed by this, the weight loss observed in the range of 250–400°C is responsible for the carbon burning, which includes both the surface carbon on the nanoparticles and the support carbon of the N-rGO. The residue content of 30% remained after 400°C is corresponding to total metal oxide loading in the system, suggesting a 3:7 metal oxide to carbon ratio in the parent sample.<sup>[24]</sup>

As a supplementary tool to probe the presence of the carbon layer on the ferrite surface, the composite materials prepared were investigated through FTIR analysis (Figure S3, Supplementary Information). Although the preparation protocol involves several washing steps in order to remove the carbon formed over the surface of CFZn particles, still the surface of the nanoparticles is found to be bound to organic molecules. [25] The peaks present at 1560 and 1401 cm<sup>-1</sup> correspond to the asymmetric and symmetric stretch of the COO- group, respectively. A peak for the C-O bond also appears at 1075 cm<sup>-1</sup>. The peaks in the three composites vary their position and features as the surface exposed metal composition changes. As explained before, with increasing the Zn concentration, concomitantly more iron is displaced. The change in the carbonyl functional group peak intensity (COO<sup>-</sup>) with respect to the Zn substitution can be clearly identified in the FTIR spectral data presented in Figure S3. A distinct difference in the intensity and feature of the peaks in the region of  $1000 - 1700 \, \text{cm}^{-1}$  for the three samples is clearly evident in Figure S3.[16b] In the case of CFZn(0.3), the broad peak appeared in the region 3000-3500 cm<sup>-1</sup> reveals the presence of the -OH functionality, and this is caused by the replacement of some amount of the Fe3+ ions by the Zn2+ ions. The EDAX data, which is a surface technique, presented in Figure S1 sheds light on the exposure of more Fe moieties on the CFZn(0.3) nanocrystal surface. Here, it should be noted that for the EDAX analysis, a 20  $\mu m \times$  20  $\mu m$  length and width of sample was considered. Though the general penetration depth of the incident electron beam is  $\sim 1-2 \mu m$ , since the composite material solid ferrite, the penetration depth might get reduced. Further, the agglomeration in the particles also likely to hinder the depth analysis of the sample. The high Fe over surface might be caused by the movement of the iron moieties from the tetrahedral to the octahedral sites in accordance with the Zn<sup>2+</sup> substitution. Such exposed Fe moieties on the surface of the nanoparticles can form Fe-OH bonds, which is evident from the characteristic -OH group signature in the IR spectra.

In order to understand more clearly on the state of the composition of the prepared catalysts, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic (XPS) investigation was performed. Figure 3a shows the comparative survey scan spectrum of CFZn(0.3) and CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO. The peaks at the binding energy (BE) values of 285.29, 531.61, 714.08, 784.46 and 1020.36 eV are assigned to the C 1s, O 1s, Fe 2p, Co 2p and Zn 2p states respectively. An extra peak at 399.32 eV (Figure 3a and 3b) seen in the XPS spectra of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO is corresponding to the doped N 1s state of N-rGO. Deconvolution of this peak (Figure 3b) shows two peaks corresponding to the pyridinic and pyrrolic nitro-

Figure 3. (a) XPS survey spectra of CFZn(0.3) and CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO, (b) deconvoluted N 1s spectra showing the pyridinic and pyrrolic type of nitrogen coordinations in the system, (c) deconvoluted Fe 2p XPS spectra in the unsupported composites with different degree of Zn substitution.

gens at 398.36 and 400.40 eV respectively.[27] The active role of the pyridinic-N towards the enhancement of the ORR activity is already known in the literature.[27–28]

The oxidation states of the metal entities have also been confirmed through the deconvolution of the Fe peak appeared in the survey spectrum presented in Figure 4a.[26] The deconvoluted Fe 2p spectra presented in Figure 3c show the presence of divalent (2+) and trivalent (3+) Fe ions in the unsupported composites with different degree of Zn substitution. The electronic exchange between Fe2<sup>+</sup> and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> produces the ptype of the carriers.[29] The charge carriers arise from the loss of oxygen during the solvothermal synthesis. A close inspection of the deconvoluted spectra for all the three samples (i. e., CFZn (0.1), CFZn(0.2) and CFZn(0.3)) shows a distinct variation in the relative concentrations of the Fe2<sup>+</sup> and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> moieties with respect to the compositional difference. It is mentioned previously that in the inverse spinel lattice Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> state occupies the tetrahedral site whereas Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> state favors the octahedral site. From the XPS analysis, it has been observed that the ratio of Fe2<sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> increases with the Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> substitution. The observed Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>ratios are found to be 0.37, 0.60 and 1.70 for CFZn(0.1), CFZn(0.2) and CFZn(0.3) catalysts respectively. Increased Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ratio in CFZn(0.3) is in accordance with the replacement of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> with the Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions in the tetrahedral site.[16b,17] The presence of divalent Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ion in the trivalent Fe3<sup>+</sup> site of the cobalt ferrite structure favors the formation of oxygen vacancies (Vo) to maintain the crystal neutrality.[17,30] The observed binding energy shift in the Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup> state of the composites hints out towards the change in the electronic environment due to the Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> substitution in the system. The deconvoluted spectra of the Fe 2p state of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGOis shown in Figure S4, Supplementary Information.

Figure 4. Electrochemical data corresponding to ORR obtained on the various ferrite materials after spatially separating the catalyst particles with Vulcan carbon: (a) cyclic voltammograms of the zinc-substituted cobalt ferrite nanoparticles supported on N-rGO (electrolyte: 0.1 M KOH and scan rate: 50 mV/s) recorded under oxygen saturated and oxygen-free conditions; (b) linear sweep voltammograms of the unsupported and supported zincsubstituted cobalt ferrite nanocrystals recorded under RDE mode at a potential scan rate of 10 mV/s and an electrode rotation rate of 1600 rpm; (c) LSVs of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan recorded at various rotation speeds of the working electrode under RDE mode;(d) Koutecky-Levich plots generated for the CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan catalyst.

#### Electrochemical Characterization

To evaluate how the Zn substitution and the associated changes in the cationic distribution of the spinel phase modulated the ORR characteristics of the system, the corresponding electrochemical evaluations were carried out in 0.1 M KOH solution as the electrolyte. Figure 4a shows the comparative cyclic voltammograms (CVs) of CFZn(0.1)/N-rGO-Vulcan, CFZn(0.2)/N-rGO-Vulcan and CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan measured at a voltage sweep rate of 50 mVs-<sup>1</sup> in oxygen saturated and nitrogen saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. In all the cases, under oxygen enriched conditions, a characteristic oxygen reduction peak can be clearly seen in the CV profiles with a peak potential at -0.140 V vs. Hg/HgO. The Zn2<sup>+</sup> substitution in the ferrite structure alters the atomic distribution over the surface of the nanoparticles. A significant change in the charging current could be attributed to the interface of the metal oxide and electrolyte. The presence of more Fe2<sup>+</sup> over the metal oxide surface, as evident from XPS analysis, can convert to Fe3<sup>+</sup> oxidation state resulting in the enhanced charging current. Further, the surface charging is dependent on the metal atom and oxygen vacancies over the Zn2<sup>+</sup>substituted cobalt ferrite. The change in the Fe2<sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ratio is small for CFZn(0.1) to CFZn (0.2), but significant change is observed for the CFZn(0.3). The claimed effects can be visualized in the CV features of the composites. Further, for more quantitative and comparative inspection on the ORR behaviour of the systems, linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) were recorded in a rotating disc

electrode (RDE) mode by maintaining the rotation rate of the working electrode at 1600 rpm (Figure 4b). Looking at the onset and half-wave potentials, the catalytic activity towards ORR for the unsupported systems follows the order as CFZn (0.3) >CFZn(0.1) >CFZn(0.2), even though the performances are considerably low.

On the other hand, the LSV data shows a substantial improvement in the ORR activity after dispersion of the ferrite particles on N-rGO and the activity of these supported catalysts follows the order as CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan>CFZn(0.1)/N-rGO-Vulcan>CFZn(0.2)/N-rGO-Vulcan. This trend in performance is clearly in accordance with the degree of Zn substitution in the ferrite structure and its associated effect on the redistribution of the iron and cobalt moieties in the octahedral and tetrahedral sites. Divalent Zn2<sup>+</sup> ion when doped in the place of the trivalent Fe3<sup>+</sup> ion as evident from the XPS analysis, an oxygen vacancy (Vo) can be created in the crystal structure.[17] As more Zn2<sup>+</sup> goes to the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> site, concomitantly more the oxygen vacancies will be created to maintain the crystal neutrality.[18b,31] A nice correlation between the XPS and ORR features could be arrived based on the state of the compositions as indicated in the XPS data and the performance indicators deduced from the electrochemical experiments. The change in the ORR activity from the Zn substitution value of 0.1 to 0.3 is a consequence of the interplay between the hole and ionic distribution in the B site.[1c,30] The generated oxygen vacancies subsequent to the displacement of the Fe3<sup>+</sup> ions with the Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions in the tetrahedral site can concomitantly affect the adsorption and desorption energy of the molecular oxygen.[31b] This type of activity enhancement caused by oxygen vacancies can be explained by Marsvan Kervelen mechanism.[31b] As the mechanism says, the oxygen vacancies created in the crystal structure provides the active site for adsorption of molecular oxygen. More the oxygen vacancies created in the lattice, higher the adsorption of the molecular oxygen. Here, it should be noted that the reduction of molecular oxygen takes place through the metal present at the B site.[30,32] The increased Fe atom in the B site favours the ORR reaction as evident from our electrochemical study. The trend in the electrocatalytic activity of the unsupported and supported nanocrystals is similar. The supported catalyst with the Zn substitution value of 0.3, i. e., CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan, has the highest performance regarding the limiting current density (80.5 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> ), onset (0.01 V vs.Hg/HgO) and halfwave (-0.120 V vs. Hg/HgO) potential values. Compared to the supported Zn-free system, i. e. CF/N-rGO, substitution of Fe by a fraction of 0.3 leads to an enhancement in the half-wave potential by 20 mV. Interestingly, the limiting current density in the case of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan is found to higher than that of the state-of-the-art PtC catalyst by 20.5 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> even though the later has a lower overpotential (90 mV) compared to the former. The relatively high current density of the homemade catalystis attributed to the high mass diffusion and exposed catalytic sites attained in the present case in presence of Vulcan carbon as a co-component since stacking of the graphene layers can be hindered by the presence of the Vulcan carbon.[14] A recent study by Song et.al. suggests that the curvature of the carbon structure facilitates the ORR kinetics and hinders the Oswald ripening of the catalyst.[33] The work highlights few structural advantages of the carbon for oxygen reduction as island-by-island configuration isolating the nanoparticles, tortuous voids restricts the Oswald ripening and curvature-induced strong interaction of nanoparticle with carbon. Similarly, a report from Liming Dai et. al. explores the structural advantage of the graphene nanoribbons and quantum dots for ORR.[34] A combination of the layered nanoribbon and spherical quantum dots resulted into notable enhancement in ORR. In the case of our catalyst, the spherical Vulcan carbon is separating the catalyst layers by providing space for facile diffusion of the electrolyte and gases to the catalyst layer. This structural modulation is expected to be responsible for accomplishing the high current density in the in Figure 4b and 4c.

The Vulcan carbon can also enhance wettability and thereby enhanced electrode-electrolyte interface. All these will help to ensure better oxygen concentration at the active sites located on the graphene surface. A controlled interplay of all these parameters is helping the system to provide a healthy environment for the reaction to happen. Further, the composition CFZn(0.4)/N-rGO-Vulcan with a Zn loading of 0.4 displays decreased ORR activity (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Hence, a Zn substitution value of 0.3 has been taken as the optimum value. Additionally, to ensure that the ORR response is coming from the synergistic effect of the carbon and metal oxide catalyst, the LSVs of the N-rGO, Vulcan carbon and NrGO+Vulcan carbon are also included(Figure S5). A comparison of the results clearly highlights the potential improvement attained in the CFZn/N-rGO-Vulcan systems through the synergistic interaction of the carbon and the metal oxide catalyst phase.

After realizing that CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan is the best composition among the prepared systems in terms of the ORR activity, the RDE evaluation was continued with a specific focus on this system to gain more insightful information on the kinetics of the reaction. This has been achieved by constructing the Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots after recording the LSVs at different electrode rotation rates and then plotting the inverse of the square root of the electrode rotation rate (w-1/2) against inverse of the current density (j-) values at different potentials where the straight-line feature is maintained.[35] A detailed discussion on the K-L equation and the associated calculations is included in the Supplementary Information. Figure 4c shows the polarization curves obtained with the catalyst-coated electrode at different rotation rates recorded at a potential sweep rate of 10 mVs-<sup>1</sup> in 0.1 M KOH solution. The significant increase in the limiting current density value with the rotation rate of the electrode is as a response to the increased hydrodynamic movement of the reactants towards the electrode surface with respect to the rotation rates. The corresponding K-L plots presented in Figure 4d give straight-line features, and the slope of the plots are used to calculate the number of electrons involved in the reduction process as a function of the potential. The estimated value of the number of the transferred electrons in the reduction process for ORR is

approximately close to 4e, which validates formation of H2O, instead of H2O2, as the major product of the reduction reaction. In order to get further insight on the magnitude of ORR activity in a more quantitative term, the kinetic current is also deduced. This measurement on the kinetic current for the catalyst was carried out with the help of RDE from the y-intercept of the K-L plots made at different potentials through extrapolation. For the CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO catalyst, the kinetic current was estimated to be 714.2 mA/mg of the catalyst at -0.26 V (V vs Hg/HgO), which is an appreciable value for a noble metal free catalysts.[36]

Even though the formation of H2O has been confirmed from the RDE studies as the major product of ORR in the present case, quantification of the amount of the possible byproduct H2O2 using a rotating ring disc electrode (RRDE) can provide strong substantiating evidence on the proposed kinetics for the reaction. Accordingly, Figure 5a and 5b

Figure 5. (a) The measured number of the electrons transferred during ORR as calculated through RRDE studies, (b) the percentage of H2O2 detected at the ring electrode of RRDE at various potentials at an electrode rotation rate of 1600 rpm in O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. (c) and (d) are the accelerated durability test of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan and 20 % Pt/C catalyst.

respectively represent the amount of H2O2 formed and the number of electrons engaged in the reaction as a function of the applied potential at the disc electrode of RRDE. The current detected at the ring electrode of RRDE has been used to calculate these values. The electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction involves several transition states and the rate determining step depends on the activity of the catalyst. Frequently observed transition steps during the reduction are OOH\*, O\*, and OH\*.[9a] The products formed at the disc electrode in the reaction by following the 2e transfer get trapped at the ring electrode and lead to the formation of H2O2 under the experimental conditions.[4b] The formation of peroxide during the ORR process was monitored within the potential window of -0.1 to -0.75 V (vs. Hg/HgO) by measuring the ring current (the calculation is given in Supporting Information). As presented in Figure 5a, the percentage of H2O2 formed on the catalysts follows the order as CFZn(0.2)/N-rGO-Vulcan>CFZn(0.1)/N-rGO-Vulcan>CFZn (0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan.

As mentioned before, the H2O2 formation is directly related to the Faradic 2e transfer reaction, which leads to the formation of H2O2 as the final product compared to H2O through the preferred 4e reduction pathway.[37] The calculation was extended to determine the number of electrons involved in the reduction process in the potential window of 0.10 to -0.75 V (vs. Hg/HgO) and Figure 5b represents the comparative plots. This number has been calculated after measuring the collection efficiency for the RRDE electrode using K3Fe(CN)6, which was found to be 0.37 (refer Supplementary Information for details). Thus, the lowest H2O2 amount and an electron transfer number close to 3.8 detected in the case of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan stands out as a solid evidence on the optimal activity modulation accomplished in the system after the Zn substitution to favor the ORR kinetics in the desired route. In terms of the active component, the ratio of the active catalyst to the Vulcan carbon (20:80) in the present case can be correlated to the commercial 20% PtC catalyst, where 20% active Pt metal is dispersed on 80% carbon matrix. The low peroxide yield given by the homemade catalyst indicates an optimum catalyst to carbon ratio as reported previously that the formation of peroxide with the thin catalyst coating varies with the metal amount in the catalyst layer on the working electrode.[38]

The ORR process creates a destructive environment to the catalyst by creating a favourable situation for carbon corrosion, particle ripening, and even dissolution. Particularly, in the case of the non-Pt systems, this has been pointed out as one of the major limitations for their realistic deployment for the device applications. The electrochemical stability of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan in harsh oxygen reduction environment has been investigated by using the accelerated durability test (ADT) by exposing the catalyst to the oxidative environment of accelerated potential range from -0.6 to 0 V (vs Hg/HgO) for 5000 cycles with a sweep rate of 100 mV s-<sup>1</sup> (refer Supporting Information for details).[39] A comparative LSV profiles presented in Figure 5c for the system before and after ADT indicates a reduction in the onset and half-wave potential by 30 mV with an apparently negligible change in the limiting current density value. On the other hand, the corresponding ADT profiles (Figure 5d) for 20% PtC catalyst indicates significant drops in the onset potential (100 mV), half-wave potential (70 mV) and limiting current density (14.2%). These results point towards better structural integrity and electrochemical survivability compared to the conventional PtC catalyst. This enhanced stability might have originated from the high corrosion resistive nature of the nitrogen doped graphene as a substrate along with its ability to strongly anchor the nano-ferrite particles through the sites generated by the heteroatom doping and small order structural changes.

# Conclusions

This manuscript targeted on tuning the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity of cobalt ferrite nanoparticles by stoichiometrically substituting some fraction of Fe with Zn and anchoring these particles on nitrogen doped reduced graphene oxide (N-rGO). Zn substitution has a decisive role in controlling the ratio of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> in the system, and this ratio has a direct influence on tuning the activity of the system towards ORR. The composition corresponding to CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan with a Co, Fe and Zn molar ratio of 1: 1.7: 0.3 is found to be the best system for ORR considering its significant positive potential shift for both onset and half-wave potential values along with the substantially improved limiting current density value. This increased ORR performance is in accordance with the increased concentration of the Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> state in the octahedral sites of the system due to Zn substitution as revealed from the XPS studies. As the Zn2<sup>+</sup> ions occupy the tetrahedral sites and displace a corresponding number of the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ions from tetrahedral sites, the Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Fe3<sup>+</sup> ratio increases with a concomitant enhancement in the ORR characteristics. This activity enhancement is again related to the possible oxygen vacancy created in the system as more Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> goes to the tetrahedral site and the system tries to maintain crystal neutrality. CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO-Vulcan also displayed better structural integrity and electrochemical survivability compared to the conventional PtC catalyst, possibly materialized through the presence of the high corrosion resistive nature of the nitrogen doped graphene as a substrate along with its ability to strongly anchor the nano-ferrite particles.

#### Supporting Information Summary

Materials, Synthesis of GO, Synthesis of CFZn(0.3)/N-rGO, Characterization, ICP Measurement, Catalyst Slurry Preparation, K-L Plot, RRDE Measurement, Durability, EDAX, PXRD, FT-IR, Fe 2p XPS Spectra and LSVs of the Various Catalysts.

## Acknowledgements

V.K acknowledges University Grant Commission (UGC), New Delhi, India, for research fellowship and K.S acknowledges Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), New Delhi, India, for research funding (TLP003526).

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: Nanocrystalline · N-doped graphene · oxygen reduction reaction · solvothermal synthesis · Zn substituted cobalt ferrite

[1] a) A. Kirubakaran, S. Jain, R. K. Nema, Renew. sustainable Energy Rev. 2009, 13, 2430–2440; b) K. Matsumoto, T. Fujigaya, H. Yanagi, N. Nakashima, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2011, 21, 1089–1094; c) J. Suntivich, H. A.

- Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat Chem 2011, 3, 546–550.
- [2] a) S. K. Singh, V. M. Dhavale, S. Kurungot, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7, 21138–21149; b) M. Prabu, P. Ramakrishnan, H. Nara, T. Momma, T. Osaka, S. Shanmugam, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2014, 6, 16545– 16555; c) Y. Li, M. Gong, Y. Liang, J. Feng, J.-E. Kim, H. Wang, G. Hong, B. Zhang, H. Dai, Nat. Commun. 2013, 4, 1805; d) J.-S. Lee, S. Tai Kim, R. Cao, N.-S. Choi, M. Liu, K. T. Lee, J. Cho, Adv. Energy Mater. 2011, 1, 34– 50; e) P. Pei, K. Wang, Z. Ma, Applied Energy 2014, 128, 315–324.
- [3] a) Y. Nie, L. Li, Z. Wei, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2015, 44, 2168–2201; b) M. Shao, Q. Chang, J.-P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, Chem. Rev.2016.
- [4] a) J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jnsson, J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 17886–17892; b) D.-H. Lim, J. Wilcox, J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 3653–3660.
- [5] a) S. Guo, D. Li, H. Zhu, S. Zhang, N. M. Markovic, V. R. Stamenkovic, S. Sun, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed 2013, 52, 3465–3468; b) T. Palaniselvam, A. Irshad, B. Unni, S. Kurungot, J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 14754–14763.
- [6] a) R. J. Toh, A. Y. S. Eng, Z. Sofer, D. Sedmidubsky, M. Pumera, ChemElectroChem 2015, 2, 982–987; b) C. Yao, Q. Zeng, G. F. Goya, T. Torres, J. Liu, H. Wu, M. Ge, Y. Zeng, Y. Wang, J. Z. Jiang, J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 12274–12278.
- [7] a) M. Chisaka, Y. Suzuki, T. Iijima, Y. Sakurai, J. Phys. Chem. C 2011, 115, 20610–20617; b) M. Chisaka, A. Ishihara, K.-I. Ota, H. Muramoto, Electrochim. Acta 2013, 113, 735–740.
- [8] G. A. Tritsaris, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, Electrochim. Acta 2011, 56, 9783–9788.
- [9] a) Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 4394–4403; b) X. Ge, Y. Liu, F. W. T. Goh, T. S. A. Hor, Y. Zong, P. Xiao, Z. Zhang, S. H. Lim, B. Li, X. Wang, Z. Liu, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2014, 6, 12684–12691; c) R. Ning, J. Tian, A. M. Asiri, A. H. Qusti, A. O. Al-Youbi, X. Sun, Langmuir 2013, 29, 13146–13151.
- [10] H. Wang, Y. Yang, Y. Liang, G. Zheng, Y. Li, Y. Cui, H. Dai, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 7931–7935.
- [11] a) Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, Nat. Mater. 2011, 10, 780–786; b) B. Li, X. Ge, F. W. T. Goh, T. S. A. Hor, D. Geng, G. Du, Z. Liu, J. Zhang, X. Liu, Y. Zong, Nanoscale 2015, 7, 1830–1838.
- [12] Z.-S. Wu, S. Yang, Y. Sun, K. Parvez, X. Feng, K. Mllen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 9082–9085.
- [13] W. Bian, Z. Yang, P. Strasser, R. Yang, J. Power Sources 2014, 250, 196– 203.
- [14] V. Kashyap, S. K. Singh, S. Kurungot, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016, 8, 20730–20740.
- [15] Y. Ma, H. Wang, S. Ji, J. Goh, H. Feng, R. Wang, Electrochim. Acta 2014, 133, 391–398.
- [16] a) D. Carta, M. F. Casula, A. Falqui, D. Loche, G. Mountjoy, C. Sangregorio, A. Corrias, J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 8606–8615; b) V. Mameli, A. Musinu, A. Ardu, G. Ennas, D. Peddis, D. Niznansky, C. Sangregorio, C. Innocenti, N. T. K. Thanh, C. Cannas, Nanoscale 2016, 8, 10124–10137.
- [17] N. Somaiah, T. V. Jayaraman, P. A. Joy, D. Das, J. Magn. Magn. Mater 2012, 324, 2286–2291.
- [18] a) L. Li, X. Feng, Y. Nie, S. Chen, F. Shi, K. Xiong, W. Ding, X. Qi, J. Hu, Z. Wei, L.-J. Wan, M. Xia, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 4825–4832; b) L. Liu, Z. Mei, A. Tang, A. Azarov, A. Kuznetsov, Q.-K. Xue, X. Du, Phys. Rev. B 2016, 93, 235305.
- [19] a) K. Qiu, G. Chai, C. Jiang, M. Ling, J. Tang, Z. Guo, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 3558–3568; b) H. Zhu, S. Zhang, Y.-X. Huang, L. Wu, S. Sun, Nano Lett. 2013, 13, 2947–2951; c) W. Yan, X. Cao, J. Tian, C. Jin, K. Ke, R. Yang, Carbon 2016, 99, 195–202; d) Y. Liang, H. Wang, J. Zhou, Y. Li, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 3517–3523.
- [20] a) D. Prasai, J. C. Tuberquia, R. R. Harl, G. K. Jennings, K. I. Bolotin, ACS Nano 2012, 6, 1102–1108; b) H. Jin, H. Zhang, Y. Ma, T. Xu, H. Zhong, M. Wang, J. Power Sources 2010, 195, 6323–6328.
- [21] a) Y. I. Kim, D. Kim, C. S. Lee, Physica B: Condensed Matter 2003, 337, 42– 51; b) K. P. Chae, J.-G. Lee, H. Su Kweon, Y. Bae Lee, J. Magn. Magn. Mater 2004, 283, 103–108; c) G. Baldi, D. Bonacchi, M. C. Franchini, D. Gentili, G. Lorenzi, A. Ricci, C. Ravagli, Langmuir 2007, 23, 4026–4028.
- [22] L. Zhang, Z. Su, F. Jiang, L. Yang, J. Qian, Y. Zhou, W. Li, M. Hong, Nanoscale 2014, 6, 6590–6602.
- [23] M. Artus, L. B. Tahar, F. Herbst, L. Smiri, F. Villain, N. Yaacoub, J.-M. Grenche, S. Ammar, F. Fivet, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 2011, 23, 506001.

- [24] a) R. B. Rakhi, W. Chen, D. Cha, H. N. Alshareef, J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 16197–16204; b) M. Kim, Y. Hwang, K. Min, J. Kim, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2013, 15, 15602–15611.
- [25] A. V. Ghule, K. Ghule, C.-Y. Chen, W.-Y. Chen, S.-H. Tzing, H. Chang, Y.-C. Ling, J. Mass Spectrom. 2004, 39, 1202–1208.
- [26] a) C. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Jia, Q. Sui, N. Ma, P. Du, Sci. Rep. 2015, 5, 9498; b) R. Tang, C. Jiang, W. Qian, J. Jian, X. Zhang, H. Wang, H. Yang, Sci. Rep. 2015, 5, 13645.
- [27] S. M. Unni, S. N. Bhange, R. Illathvalappil, N. Mutneja, K. R. Patil, S. Kurungot, Small 2015, 11, 352–360.
- [28] a) J. Wu, L. Ma, R. M. Yadav, Y. Yang, X. Zhang, R. Vajtai, J. Lou, P. M. Ajayan, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7, 14763–14769; b) T. Palaniselvam, V. Kashyap, S. N. Bhange, J.-B. Baek, S. Kurungot, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2016, 26, 2150–2162; c) S. M. Unni, R. Illathvalappil, S. N. Bhange, H. Puthenpediakkal, S. Kurungot, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7, 24256–24264.
- [29] D. Zhou, K. R. Kittilstved, Chem. Commun. 2016, 52, 9101–9104.
- [30] C. P. Jijil, S. N. Bhange, S. Kurungot, R. N. Devi, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7, 3041–3049.
- [31] a) T. Y. Ma, Y. Zheng, S. Dai, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2, 8676–8682; b) V. Agarwal, H. Metiu, J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 120, 2320–2323.

- [32] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y.-L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat Chem 2017, advance online publication.
- [33] J. Yang, S. H. Kim, S. K. Kwak, H.-K. Song, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 23302–23308.
- [34] H. Jin, H. Huang, Y. He, X. Feng, S. Wang, L. Dai, J. Wang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 7588–7591.
- [35] a) R. Jger, E. Hrk, T. Romann, U. Joost, E. Lust, J. Electroanal. Chem. 2016, 761, 89–97; b) B. K. Balan, A. P. Manissery, H. D. Chaudhari, U. K. Kharul, S. Kurungot, J. Mater. Chem. 2012, 22, 23668–23679.
- [36] B. K. Balan, S. Kurungot, J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 19039–19048.
- [37] a) Y. Yamada, M. Yoneda, S. Fukuzumi, Inorg Chem 2014, 53, 1272–1274; b) Y. Yamada, Y. Fukunishi, S.-I. Yamazaki, S. Fukuzumi, Chem. Commun. 2010, 46, 7334–7336.
- [38] N. Alonso-Vante, ChemPhysChem 2010, 11, 2732–2744.
- [39] a) Y.-T. Liang, S.-P. Lin, C.-W. Liu, S.-R. Chung, T.-Y. Chen, J.-H. Wang, K.-W. Wang, Chem. Commun. 2015, 51, 6605–6608; b) S. Takahashi, H. Chiba, T. Kato, S. Endo, T. Hayashi, N. Todoroki, T. Wadayama, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2015, 17, 18638–18644.

Submitted: July 26, 2017 Revised: August 23, 2017 Accepted: August 31, 2017