---
source: Kone 等 - 2020 - In Situ Growth of Co4 N Nanoparticles–Embedded Nitrogen‐Doped Carbon Nanotubes on Metal–O.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 79.764s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:09:28.793199Z
---

# $In-situ\ growth\ of\ Co_4N@NCNTs\ on\ MOF-derived\ carbon\ composite\ as\ highly\ efficient$ $electrocatalyst\ for\ oxygen\ reduction\ and\ evolution\ reactions$

Issa Kone,<sup>‡[a]</sup> Zubair Ahmad,<sup>‡[a]</sup> Ao Xie,<sup>[a]</sup> Yang Tang,<sup>\*[a]</sup> Yanzhi Sun,<sup>[b]</sup> Yongmei Chen,<sup>[b]</sup> Xiaojin Yang,<sup>[c]</sup> Pingyu Wan,<sup>\*[b]</sup>

#### **Author contributions**

The manuscript was written through the contributions of all authors. All authors have given approval to the final version of the manuscript. Issa Kone and Zubair Ahmad contributed equally to this work and should be considered co-first authors.

[a] I. Kone, Z. Ahmad, A. Xie, Dr. Y. Tang

Institute of Applied Electrochemistry, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing Chaoyang, Beijing 100029, PR China.

[b] Dr. Y. Sun, Dr. Y. Chen, Dr. P. Wan

National Fundamental Research Laboratory of New Hazardous Chemicals, Institute of Electrochemical Engineering, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, 100029, Beijing, P.R. China.

[c] Dr. X. Yang

College of Chemical Engineering, Beijing University of Chemical Technology, 100029 Beijing, PR China. E-mail addresses: tangyang@mail.buct.edu.cn (Y. Tang), pywan@mail.buct.edu.cn (P. Wan).

‡ I. Kone and Z. Ahmad contributed equally to this work and should be considered as co-first authors. Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

Keywords: Carbon nanotubes • Bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts • Zinc-air batteries

## Abstract:

The highly efficient and low-cost bifunctional electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions (ORR/OER) is central to new generation rechargeable metal-air batteries.

This article has been accepted for publication and undergone full peer review but has not been through the copyediting, typesetting, pagination and proofreading process, which may lead to differences between this version and the <u>Version of Record</u>. Please cite this article as <u>doi: 10.1002/ente.202000409</u>.

Herein, the hierarchical microspheres assembled by in-situ generated Co<sub>4</sub>N nanoparticles (Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps) embedded nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs) was constructed by a facile urea acid (UA) assisted pyrolysis of ZIF-67. In this strategy, the UA sharply decomposes at 440 °C to carbonaceous gases, which facilitate the nucleation of Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps for the catalytic growth of NCNT microspheres structure from the intermediate ZIF-67 polyhedrons. The as-prepared Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs exhibits high N content, abundant Co<sub>4</sub>N active species, high electron conductivity and large specific area on hierarchical micro-mesoporous structure. Therefore, the Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs not only exceeds Pt/C in terms of ORR half wave potential (0.85 vs. 0.83 V) and limiting current density (5.50 vs. 5.20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), but also manifests comparable OER activity with Ru/C. In the rechargeable zinc-air battery test, the bifunctional Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs shows excellent performance with high discharge and low charge potentials and relatively stable voltage gap as long as 500 cycles, which greatly outperformed those of commercial Pt-Ru/C.

## Introduction

Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) have attracted great attention due to the development of fuel cells, metal-air batteries and water electrolysis.<sup>[1]</sup> The sluggish reaction kinetics of ORR and OER inevitably lead to the low power density and energy efficiency of these electrochemical devices.<sup>[2]</sup> Noble-metals catalysts, Pt and Pt alloys exhibit good activity for ORR and Ru- or Ir-oxides shows good activity for OER.<sup>[3]</sup> However, their high cost and low tolerance make these types of electrocatalysts unsuitable for future commercial applications.<sup>[4]</sup> Furthermore, a good ORR catalyst normally shows poor activity towards OER and vice versa.<sup>[5]</sup> Thus, it is significant to develop highly active, durable and low-cost bifunctional electrocatalyst for ORR/OER. Recently, transition metal-nitrogen doped carbon (M-N-C) composites have gained considerable interest in their natural abundance, low-cost, good catalytic activity and stability toward the oxygen electrochemical processes.<sup>[6]</sup> The synergistic effect among metal, nitrogen and carbon species creates active sites (M-Nx, M@NC, pyridinic-N and graphitic-N) by modulating

charge distribution, hence adjusting the  $O_2$  adsorption and \*OOH formation to facilitate the oxygen electrocatalytic processes.<sup>[7]</sup>

In the past several years, Zeolitic imidazole frameworks (ZIFs) as a subclass of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have been demonstrated as being excellent precursors for metal and nitrogendoped nanocarbon electrocatalysts due to abundant N, regular morphology and periodically arranged metal and nitrogen, which facilitate the generation of M-Nx and M@NC active sites in the MOFs derived nanocarbons.<sup>[8]</sup> Modulation of different MOFs structures, various types of M-Ndoped carbon-based materials including 3D carbon polyhedron, 2D carbon nanosheet and 1D carbon nanotube have been successfully synthesized. [9] The carbon nanotube, owing to its unique hollow structure and high conductivity, has attained great attention in electrochemical catalysis. In particular, the MOFs derived NCNT materials can be easily prepared and modulated as compared with traditional CVD process which involves harsh condition and complicated instruments. [10] However, MOFs derived NCNT carbon materials suffer from low doping of N (<4%) due to the excessive evaporation of nitrogen under high temperature pyrolysis, poor conductivity due to the low degree of graphitization and low specific surface area (< 200 m<sup>2</sup>/g).<sup>[11]</sup> Moreover, the fabrication of NCNT-based materials from MOFs always involve using either long time heating process in intermediate state and/or dangerous hydrogen gas flow to generate metal nanocatalysts for the catalytic growth of NCNT from residual MOFs units.<sup>[12]</sup> To prepare well-organized assembly of NCNT microspheres from MOFs with high level N-doped, high specific surface area and conductivity as highly efficient bifunctional ORR/OER electrocatalyst via a simple approach is still a challenging task.

Herein, the hierarchical microspheres assembled by in-situ Co<sub>4</sub>N nanoparticles embedded nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes (Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs) was fabricated by an efficient and simple one-step pyrolysis of solid precursors ZIF-67 and Uric Acid (UA). UA can sharply decompose and release abundant nitrogen and carbon gas around 440 °C, which is approximated to the onset

decomposition temperature (ODT) of ZIF-67, facilitating the in-situ nucleation of Co<sub>4</sub>N nanocatalyst in the intermediate ZIF-67, hence begetting the growth of NCNT microspheres structure. The well-organized assembly Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs possesses the following characteristics: (1) The active Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps encapsulated in graphitic NCNT carbon shell, adjusting the properties of outer carbon shell and accelerating the electrocatalytic processes of O<sub>2</sub>. (2) The hierarchical micromesoporous structures, providing efficient mass transportation and exposure of active sites to the electrolyte. (3) The high specific surface area (273.5m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) of NCNT microspheres assembled with pronounced graphitic structure, providing both large interface and rapid electron conduction for ORR and OER. These characteristics endow Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs excellent bifunctional activity for both ORR and OER. Moreover, Zinc-air battery using Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs exhibits excellent discharging and charging performance, demonstrating its feasibility and potentials for practical electrochemical applications in energy storage and conversion technologies.

#### **Results and Discussion**

The preparation procedure for in-situ growth of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs from ZIF-67 and UA is illustrated in Figure 1. Firstly, the ZIF-67 crystals were synthesized at ambient temperature as mentioned in the experimental section. The as-prepared ZIF-67 (Figure S2) and a specific amount of UA were then respectively placed in the two ends of a quartz boat and heated via a programmed pyrolysis process (see the experimental section for details).

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

Figure 1. Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs.

The TG/DTA-MS-FTIR analyses were used to explore the details of the pyrolysis process of UA and ZIF-67, respectively (Figure 2). From TG/DTA analysis, the decomposition of UA shows sharp weight loss and endothermic peak around 440 °C (Figure 2a). As shown in Figure 2b,c, the FTIR spectroscopy of evolved gases at the 443 °C (a little delay *vs.* 440 °C is normal) shows some typical adsorption peaks, which matched with evolved gases from MS analysis results (Figure 2d), representing CO<sub>2</sub>, H<sub>2</sub>O, (CN) <sub>x</sub> and (CNO)<sub>x</sub> species. As illustrated in Figure 2e,f, the onset decomposition temperature (ODT) of ZIF-67 around 437 °C is very near to the peak decomposition temperature of UA, indicating the gases from UA decomposition possibly exerts an important effect for the initial growth of ZIF-67 derived carbon.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

**Figure 2.** (a) TG-DTG-DTA curves of UA in Ar atmosphere. (b, c) FT-IR analysis and corresponding 3D image of UA. (d) MS analysis of UA. (e) TG-DTG-DTA curves of pure ZIF-67. (f) DTG curves of UA and pure ZIF-67.

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed to study the morphology of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs. As shown in Figure 3a,b, these Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs microspheres show roughed surface and uniform size around 1um. As clearly exhibited in Figure 3c, abundant NCNT with diameter around 40 nm curly outspreaded from the core to form the whole microsphere. Figure S1(a-g) and Table S1 show the elemental mapping and diffraction X-rays (EDX) analysis of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, indicating the uniform distribution of cobalt and nitrogen on whole microspheres with weight percentage of 11.15 % and 8.92 %, respectively.

The morphology and microstructure are further verified by TEM and high resolution TEM (HRTEM) images of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs. Except for the abundant NCNT assembly structure as shown in Figure 3d, it is also clearly observed that abundant Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps in size of 10~20 nm are encapsulated in those curved bamboo-like carbon nanotubes. Several Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps are uniformly arranged along inside the NCNT while most of the Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps are located at the tip of each onedimensional (1D) NCNT. Due to the magnetic force, some Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps aggregated together and thus lead to the twining of NCNT as shown in Figure 3e. The high resolution TEM (HRTEM) discloses the details of the microstructure of 1D NCNT. The observed graphitic carbon layers in the walls of 1D NCNT are not thoroughly parallel to the axis direction of the NCNT, hence plenty edges rather than the basal planes are exposed on the surface of 1D NCNT as shown in the inset of Figure 3e. The area of one typical nanoparticle located at the tip on NCNT exhibits a clear lattice distance of 0.21 nm corresponding to (111) plane of Co<sub>4</sub>N, which is surrounded by several layers of graphitic carbon shell with lattice fringes of interlayer spacing (0.34 nm) as shown in Figure 3f. As presented in the XRD results (Figure 4a), the peaks located at 44.4°, 51.4°, 75.9° are attributed to (111), (200), and (220) planes of cubic Co<sub>4</sub>N phase (JCPDS No. 15-0806), [7b, 13] while the peak observed at 26° is well associated to (002) plane of graphitic carbon (JCPDS No. 41-1487).

**Figure 3.** (a-c) SEM images of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  at different magnifications. (d, e) TEM images of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ . (Inset of e, f) HRTEM images of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ . (g) SEM image of  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ . (h, i) TEM and HRTEM images of  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ .

To understand the synthesis process and disclose the growth of NCNT on the prepared Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, a control experiment was conducted. As shown in Figure 3g, the ZIF-67 derived carbon in the absence of UA shows dodecahedra morphology in size of only 500 nm size, which is much smaller than that of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs. Moreover, ZIF-67 derived carbon exhibits a relatively smooth and dent surface without the growth of CNT, which is similar to the earlier reported literature about the ZIF-67 derived carbon composite.<sup>[3, 11d, 14]</sup> The TEM image (Figure 3h) shows the distribution of plentiful Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps in carbon matrix and it is named as cobalt-nitrogen anchored in nitrogen-doped carbon nano-dodecahedra (Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs). As shown in the HRTEM images of Figure 3i and its inset figure, the Co<sub>4</sub>N Nps are anchored in amorphous carbon and surrounded by only a few graphitic carbon layers in Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs. The degree of graphitization of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs is greatly different from that of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs as shown in Figure 3e,f. This comparison was also supported by XRD results where the broad diffraction peak of carbon on Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, without the

appearance of typical graphitic carbon peaks at 26°, displays its amorphous nature. Hence it can be deduced that  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  possesses higher conductivity for electron transfer compared to of  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ . In addition, the Raman peaks intensity ratios  $I_D/I_G$  of disordered carbon D-band at 1356 cm<sup>-1</sup> and graphitic carbon G-band at 1576 cm<sup>-1</sup> was 1.01 for  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ , which is higher than that of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  (0.92) (Figure 4b). These comparisons proved the high degree of graphitization and electron conductivity of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ , indicating that the gases released from UA, especially (CN)  $_x$  and (CNO)  $_x$  not only play a crucial role for the growth of NCNT and formation of well-distributed metallic  $Co_4N$  Nps, but also increase the degree of graphitic carbon in the synthesis of nitrogen carbon composite.

XPS measurement was employed to identify surface composition and the electron state of the as-prepared materials. As shown in Figure S3a, the survey spectra confirm the presence of C, N, O and Co elements in both Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs catalysts. The high resolution XPS spectra C1s of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, reveal the peaks located at 284.7, 285.9 and 290 eV which are attributed to sp<sup>2</sup> hybridized carbon (C-C bond), C=N/C-O and O-C=O moieties, respectively (Figure S3b,c). The incorporation of the nitrogen and oxygen into the carbon structure greatly changes C1s spectra and triggers the oxygen electrocatalytic processes. [15] The XPS spectrum of O1s for Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs in Figure S3d can be deconvoluted into two species, C=O (82.8 %) at 530.9 eV which is higher than that of C-O (17.2 %) at 532.7 eV. It has been investigated that C=O species take part in the OER catalytic process. [11d, 16] Generally, it is also known that nitrogen content and species play a vital role in the electrocatalytic processes of both ORR and OER. As shown in Table S2, it is worth noting that the level of atomic percentage of N in Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs reached 8.42 %, which is almost two times higher than that of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs. Figure 4c shows N1s XPS spectra of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, the deconvoluted peaks can be divided into four types of N, including pyridinic-N (398.6 eV), Co-N<sub>x</sub> (399.7 eV), pyrrolic-N (400.5 eV), and graphitic-N (401.2 eV). The graphitic-N simultaneously adsorbs \*OOH and reduces O<sub>2</sub> to H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> via the 2-e pathway, while pyridinic-N and pyrrolic-N are answerable for the This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

catalysis of the 4-e pathway.<sup>[17]</sup> The peak position of pyridinic-N in Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs 399 eV is positively decaled by 0.3 eV near the Co-N<sub>x</sub> strip as compared to that of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, which suggests that large amount of pyridinic-N was converted to Co-N<sub>x</sub> coordination site and also strong interaction between Co and pyridinic-N on Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs carbon support as compared to Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs.<sup>[18]</sup> As evidenced by the geometric area of peak emerged at 399.7 eV assigned to Co-N<sub>x</sub> moieties formed via bonding of Co with available pyridinic- and/or pyrrolic-N in N-doped molecular carbon skeleton, was estimated to be 18 % and 10 % for Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, respectively (Table S3). It has been reported that the Co element coordinated with abundant N in the form of Co<sub>4</sub>N nanocrystals can facilitate efficient electrons transfer for effective oxygen electrolysis.<sup>[7b]</sup> The existence of Co-N<sub>x</sub> was further verified by the Co<sub>2</sub>p XPS spectrum. In Figure 4d, the peak available at 783.7 eV in Co<sub>2</sub>p<sub>3/2</sub> region can be indexed to Co-N<sub>x</sub> coordination peak, whereas the three peaks at 781.6, 786.1 and 778.6 eV are associated to Co<sub>0</sub>, the shakeup satellite and Co zero valence state (Co (0)), respectively. The Co (0) peak for Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs shifts at a higher value (778.6 eV) compared to that of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs (778.2 eV). This phenomenon displayed stronger electron transfer from metallic Co to NCNT than that of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs.<sup>[14a, 19]</sup>

**Figure 4.** (a, b) XRD and RS analysis of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ . (c, d) XPS analysis N1s and  $Co_2p$  of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ . (e, f)  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and  $Co_4N/NCNDs$  nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms and their corresponding PSD plots.

The surface area and the pore size distribution (PSD) of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs were investigated by N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption technique. As shown in Figure 4e, Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs displays quasi type I isotherms with a petty hysteresis loop at medium pressure, suggesting small quantity micropores as well mesopores, while Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs exhibits type IV isotherms, with a typical H2 hysteresis loop, implying enriched mesoporous structure. The specific surface areas calculated by Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method are 220.1 and 273.5 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup> for Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, respectively. As shown in Figure 4f, the Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs sample exhibits wider

hierarchical micro and mesopores size distribution with high total pore volume. The hierarchical porous structure of  $\text{Co}_4\text{N}@\text{NCNTs}$  could effectively improve the catalytic active sites utilization and mass transfer efficiency.

The temperature is another parameter which has a great effect on the final product composition and morphology. Besides the above 700 °C, two heating temperatures (600 and 800 °C) were also examined and the corresponding products were characterized by SEM. In Figure S4(a, b), the Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNTs-600 sample possesses abundant openings and shorts NCNT on the surface of carbonized polyhedral ZIF67, indicating initial growth of NCNT due to the insufficient pyrolysis temperature. By increasing the pyrolysis temperature to 800 °C, excessive pyrolysis temperature allows the formation of high density stringed NCNT. The obtained Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNTs-800 surface becomes coarser and the stringed like NCNT microspheres are aggregated each other as illustrated in Figure S4(c, d). Therefore, these are significantly different from Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs obtained at an optimal temperature of 700°C, in which the NCNT microspheres display a well-organized assembly as discussed above.

The ORR electrocatalytic activity of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, and commercially available Pt/C were firstly evaluated via cyclic voltammetry (CV) in 0.1 M KOH solution saturated with Ar or O<sub>2</sub> at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. As compared with CV curves in Ar, all catalysts in O<sub>2</sub> show apparent cathodic reduction peaks around 0.80 V (Figure 5a). As shown in inset Figure 5a, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs possesses slightly higher peak current and potential than those of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and commercial Pt/C, suggesting its high ORR catalytic activity. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves for ORR of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs, ZIF/UA-440 (intermediate product of ZIF-67 at 440 °C in the presence of UA) and Pt/C are further conducted at 1600 rpm (Figure 5b). The Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs exhibits excellent catalytic activity reflecting by more positive half wave potential of 0.85 V and high limiting current density of 5.50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. These parameters are much better than those of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs (0.82 V, 4.80 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), ZIF/UA-440 (0.48 V, 3.80 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (0.83 V, 5.20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), suggesting the high kinetic activity and abundant active sites. The

electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs was conducted in the kinetic-diffusion mixed control region at the same potential of 0.84 V. In Figure S5, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs displays smaller intercept on the (Z') axis in the high frequency region and smaller diameter of semicircle, suggesting higher conductivity and lower charge transfer resistance as compared to Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs. As shown in Figure 5c, the ORR currents on Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs increase regularly with the increase of the rotation speeds from 400 to 2500 rpm. According to Koutecky-Levich (K-L) slopes shown in the inset Figure 5c, the calculated number of electrons transferred (n) is 3.90. In addition, the electron-transfer number (n) and the hydrogen peroxide yield (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> %) of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and Pt/C were evaluated by rotational ring disk electrode (RRDE) results. As displayed in Figure 5d, the n values on Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and Pt/C are 3.90, 3.85 and 3.94, respectively. The corresponding H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield produced are 7 % on Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, 10 % on Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and 3 % on Pt/C commercial catalyst. These results suggest that ORR on Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs catalyst proceeds through a predominant four-electron pathway with low yield of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

**Figure 5.** (a) CV curves of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ ,  $Co_4N/NCNDs$  and Pt/C in  $O_2$  and Ar saturated solution with a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (b) ORR LSV curves of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ ,  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ , ZIF/UA-440 and Pt/C at 1600 rpm in  $O_2$  saturated 0.1 M KOH. (c) LSV curves of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  at different rotation speed in  $O_2$  saturated 0.1 M KOH and the K-L plots of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  different electrode potential inset in figure. (d)The hydrogen peroxide yields and number of electrons transferred of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ ,  $Co_4N/NCNDs$  and Pt/Cat different potentials based on the RRDE data.

To evaluate the OER activity of all catalysts, the LSV curves were recorded in 0.1 M KOH. As shown in Figure 6a, the Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs gains the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.66 V which is lower than that of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and ZIF/UA-440, while only 30 mV higher than that of Ru/C commercial catalyst to achieve the same current density (10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 1.63 V). Furthermore, the bifunctional ORR and OER performance of all prepared catalysts in comparison with Pt-Ru/C precious metal catalysts were conducted as illustrated in Figure 6b. The potential difference value (ΔE) between OER and ORR of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, shown in the inset Figure 6b, was only 0.81 V, which is lower than those of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and ZIF/UA-440, but comparable to the commercial Pt-Ru/C catalyst and recently reported excellent bifunctional electrocatalysts listed in Table S4. <sup>[8a, 9a, 9e, 11d, 12b, 20]</sup>

The effect of temperature on structure and electrocatalytic activity of the as-prepared material was investigated. The bifunctional catalytic activities of the two samples prepared at 600 °C and 800 °C (Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNTs-600 and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNTs-800) were compared with Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs in Figure S6. Among the three, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs shows the highest bifunctional ORR and OER activity. This result manifests that Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs synthesized at 700 °C possesses the optimal electrocatalytic properties, due to the suitable active sites, enhanced mass transfer channel and good electrical conductivity.

The much better bifunctional electrocatalytic activity of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs compared with that of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs stems from the following aspects: (1) Highly N content and more uniformly dispersed Co<sub>4</sub>N nanoparticles for catalyzing both ORR and OER. (2) High graphitic carbon and large surface area for fast electron conduction and high diffusion limited current. (3) The

hierarchical micro-mesoporous structure for exposure of efficient active sites to the oxygen and the electrolyte, hence to facilitate the mass transfer on  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ .

**Figure 6.** (a) OER LSV curves of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ ,  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ , ZIF/UA-440 and Ru/C at 1600 rpm. (b) ORR-OER LSV curves of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ ,  $Co_4N/NCNDs$ , ZIF/UA-440 and Pt-Ru/C at 1600 rpm in  $O_2$  saturated 0.1 M KOH. (c) Methanol tolerance of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and Pt/C at 1600 rpm in 0.1 M  $O_2$  saturated KOH solution. (d) Chronoamperometric response (current-time) of  $Co_4N@NCNTs$ ,  $Co_4N/NCNDs$  and Pt/C at 0.5 V for 28800 s in  $O_2$  saturated 0.1 M KOH at rotation speed of 1600 rpm.

The resistance of oxygen electrocatalysts to methanol crossover was evaluated as shown in Figure 6c. The cathodic current on Pt/C catalyst decreases significantly upon introducing 1 M methanol, whereas no obvious change of current can be observed for Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, indicating high methanol tolerance of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs. The long-term durability test of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs, Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and Pt/C catalysts were assessed by chronoamperometric measurements as presented in Figure 6d. The Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs sample exhibits excellent durability with 96 % of the original current density retention. In comparison, the Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and Pt/C show more current loss of 12 % and 19 % respectively, highlighting the excellent durability of the Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs. These results demonstrated that Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs not only possesses excellent tolerance but also outstanding stability.

Motivated by the excellent bifunctional catalytic activity as well as the remarkable durability, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs was applied in a home-made ZAB test. The ZAB configuration consist of Zn foil electrode, the bifunctional Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs catalyst coated gas diffusion electrode and electrolyte of KOH (6 M) containing Zn (Ac)<sub>2</sub> (0.2 M) solution. The ZAB based on the Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs delivers an open circuit voltage of 1.47 V, which is higher than that of Pt-Ru/C ZAB (1.45V) (Figure 7a). As clearly displayed in Figure 7a, the maximum power density of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs in assembled ZAB was detected to be 110 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is comparable to that of the ZAB made with Pt-Ru/C (122 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). The multi-step chronopotentiometry curves of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Pt-Ru/C ZAB with increasing the current density is presented in Figure 7b. Obviously, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs ZAB discharges higher potentials at the current density of 1, 10 and 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> than those of Pt-Ru/C ZAB. However, Pt-Ru/C ZAB outperforms Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs ZAB at large current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. This phenomenon is similar to that in Figure 7a. In Figure 7c, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs ZAB shows discharge voltage of 1.28 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> which higher than that of Pt-Ru/C ZAB (1.26 V) and the specific capacities recorded after consumed Zn anode normalization reached to 755 mA h g<sup>-1</sup><sub>zn</sub> and 776 mA h g<sup>-1</sup> for Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Pt-Ru/C ZAB, respectively. The galvanostatic charge and discharge polarization curves for ZAB with Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs in comparison to commercial Pt-Ru/C catalysts are shown in Figure 7d. The Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs delivers a potential gap of 0.70 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is slightly higher than that of Pt-Ru/C ZAB (0.67 V). However, at the current density of 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs ZAB shows a smaller potential gap of 0.84 V than that of Pt-Ru/C ZAB (0.93 V). These results indicate that ZAB with Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs is superior, at least comparable to ZAB with commercial precious Pt-Ru/C.

Furthermore, the cycling performance of the rechargeable batteries with Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs and Pt-Ru/C were measured at a constant current density of (10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) for 10 minutes each cycle. Figure 7e shows the potential values of 1.28 and 1.98 V on Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs at initial stages of discharge and charge respectively, which is similar to ZAB of Pt-Ru/C. After only 100 cycling tests, the charge-discharge voltage gap for Pt-Ru/C increases from 0.68 to 1.68 V, while the ZAB with This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs displays a smaller increase from 0.70 to 0.90 V. The discharge potential of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs-based ZAB only decreases from 1.28 to 1.23 V during the first 100 cycles and maintains quasi stable from 100 to 500 cycles, while the charge potential only increases from 1.98 to 2.06 V. These results demonstrated Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs' excellent performance and its feasibility for practical applications in rechargeable metal-air batteries.

Figure 7. (a) Power density of ZAB with  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and Pt-Ru/C. (b) Chronopotentiometry multi-current step curves of ZAB with  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and Pt-Ru/C. (c) ZAB normalized the specific capacity of Zn consumed anode mass of ZAB with  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and Pt-Ru/C. (d) Galvanostatic charging-discharging polarization curves of ZAB with  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and Pt-Ru/C. (e) Charge-discharge cycling polarization curves of ZAB with  $Co_4N@NCNTs$  and Pt-Ru/C.

#### **Conclusion**

In summary, the hierarchical microspheres assembled by  $\text{Co}_4\text{N}$  nanoparticles embedded nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes  $\text{Co}_4\text{N}@\text{NCNTs}$  has been constructed using a facile urea acid (UA)

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

assisted pyrolysis of ZIF-67. The prepared Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs possesses good structural morphology, high level of doping N, excellent conductivity, large surface area and accessible Co<sub>4</sub>N active sites. In term of bifunctional electrocatalysis, Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs exhibits remarkable activity towards ORR and OER. Moreover, ZAB with Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs shows promising performance in terms of discharge/charge voltage and long-term cycling durability which is better than Pt-Ru/C catalysed ZAB. This strategy shows great potential for the facile synthesis of NCNT-assembled carbon composites as active low-cost bifunctional electrocatalysts for the new generation energy storage and conversion devises.

# **Experimental sections**

## Chemical reagents

Cobalt nitrate hexahydrate (Co (NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O), 2-Methylimidazole (C<sub>4</sub>H<sub>6</sub>N<sub>2</sub>), Uric acid (C<sub>5</sub>H<sub>4</sub>N<sub>4</sub>O<sub>3</sub>) and methanol were purchased from Beijing chemical works. All of the chemicals were analytical grade and were used as received. Commercials Pt/C, Ru/C and Pt-Ru/C (20 wt. %) were purchased from Johnson Matthey Company. Nafion solution (5 wt %) was purchased from DuPont, Inc.

# **Preparation of ZIF-67 particles**

ZIF-67 was prepared according to the reported literature with some modifications. In a typical procedure, cobalt nitrate hexahydrate (2.92 g) was dissolved in 200 ml methanol. 2-methylimidazole (3.19 g) was added to 200 ml methanol. The above two solution were thereafter mixed together with vigorous stirring at ambient temperature for 24 hrs. The resulting purple solution was collected by centrifugation, washed with methanol at least three times and then dried overnight at 70 °C. The ZIF-67 was further activated at 100 °C in a vacuum oven for 10 hours before pyrolysis.

#### Synthesis of Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs

The activated ZIF-67 (0.1 g) was placed in a long glass boat with a cover in downstream position and Uric acid (1.3 g) was placed at upstream position in the same boat. The boat was heated in a tube furnace in two programmed stages, first at 440 °C for 4 h then subsequently heated to a temperature of 700 °C for two hours under Ar atmosphere with a heating rate of 2 °C/min. After naturally cooling to room temperature, the as-prepared Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs was used directly without any post-treatment. The Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNTs-600 and Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNTs-800 were prepared by the same method as described above with different heating temperatures of 600 and 800 °C, respectively.

# Preparation of Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs and ZIF/UA-440

For comparison, 0.1 g of activated ZIF-67 powder only was directly heated with the same two steps pyrolysis system as mentioned above. The resultant product was denoted as Co<sub>4</sub>N/NCNDs. The activated ZIF-67 and UA with the same procedure as above Co<sub>4</sub>N@NCNTs were heated in a tube furnace at 440 °C for 4 h in Ar atmosphere to obtain the intermediate product denoted as ZIF/UA-440.

#### Characterization

The structure and morphology of the as-synthesized materials were studied using scanning electron microscope and energy dispersive spectroscopy (SEM-EDS, Zeiss-SPURA 55). The internal structure was observed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM Hitachi-800) and high resolution TEM (HRTEM, JEOL JEM-2100). The composition and crystal structure of products were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD) using an X-ray diffractometer (Bruker D8 advance 10-90° 5° min<sup>-1</sup>). The N<sub>2</sub> physisorption isotherms were collected by Quantachrome instrument using a gas adsorption analyser (Tri-Star II 3020; micromeritics). The graphitization degree of the materials was analysed by Raman spectrometer (RS, DXRxi, Thermo-Fischer scientific, US). The surface chemical composition was determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, thermo electron ESCALAB 250). The thermogravimetric TGA, FTIR spectroscopy and MS This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

analysis were conducted using TGA/(FTIR-MS)(STA449F3-TENSOR 27 Bruker- QMS403-C Netzsch).

Electrochemical measurement of ORR and OER

Prior to use, glassy carbon (GC) electrode was polished by alumina slurry (1.0 μm, 0.3 μm and 0.05 μm) and rinsed with distilled water to obtain a smooth mirror-like surface and then dried at ambient temperature. 3 milligrams of the prepared catalyst, 438 μl of dimethylformamide (DMF), and 12 μl 3% Nafion solution were mixed together and ultra-sonicated for half an hour. The resultant homogenized catalyst ink with a volume of 10 μl was dropped on the surface of a glassy carbon electrode (0.247 cm²) and then dried to be used as working electrode. Commercial Pt/C and those precious metal catalysts with a typical loading of about 0.1 mg cm⁻² (Pt; 20 μg cm⁻²) were used for comparison.

#### Assembly and electrochemical investigation of Zinc-air batteries

The rechargeable Zinc-air battery (ZAB) was assembled as the polished Zn foil was applied as anode; the air electrode was made-up by pouring the prepared catalyst (loading 1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) onto a nickel foam substrate. The solution containing 6 M KOH and 0.2 M Zinc Acetate (Zn (Ac)<sub>2</sub>) was used as the electrolyte. The charge-discharge cycle-stability of ZAB was tested at room temperature with one cycle interval of 10 min (5 min for charging and 5 min for discharging) followed by the same duration time and same current density.

Gas diffusion layer was synthesized by adding 300 of mg ammonium nitrate (NH<sub>4</sub>NO<sub>3</sub>) in a solution of 3 mL containing de-ionized water and ethanol (1:1 volume) followed by adding 800 mg of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE 60 wt%) emulsion. The resultant mixed solution was added dropwise to carbon black powder (400 mg). The obtained product was quickly stirred and extruded to about 200  $\mu$ m of a fine slice. The prepared layer was thereafter heated in a muffle furnace to 320 °C with 2 °C/min heating rate and kept for about forty minutes before allowing to cool down to the room temperature.

This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved

#### Acknowledgements

The authors greatly appreciate the support from the Beijing Municipal Natural Science Foundation (2182050), National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 21506010) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities of China (No. 12060093063, JD1923).

### References

- [1] a) Z. P. Cano, D. Banham, S. Ye, A. Hintennach, J. Lu, M. Fowler, Z. Chen. *Nat. Energy* **2018**, 3, 279-289; b) L. Chong, J. Wen, J. Kubal, F. G. Sen, J. Zou, J. Greeley, M. Chan, H. Barkholtz, W. Ding, D. J. Liu. *Science* **2018**, 362, 1276-1281; c) G. Fu, Y. Tang, J.-M. Lee. *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, 5, 1424-1434; d) D. M. F. Santos, C. A. C. Sequeira, J. L. Figueiredo. *Quim. Nova* **2013**, 36, 1176-1193.
- [2] a) M. Li, X. Bi, R. Wang, Y. Li, G. Jiang, L. Li, C. Zhong, Z. Chen, J. Lu. *Matter* **2020**, *2*, 32-49; b) C. Wang, Y. Yu, J. Niu, Y. Liu, D. Bridges, X. Liu, J. Pooran, Y. Zhang, A. Hu. *Appl. Sci.* **2019**, *9*; c) W. Zang, A. Sumboja, Y. Ma, H. Zhang, Y. Wu, S. Wu, H. Wu, Z. Liu, C. Guan, J. Wang, S. J. Pennycook. *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 8961-8969.
- [3] D. Fang, H. Zhang, L. He, J. Geng, W. Song, S. Sun, Z. Shao, B. Yi. *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 3633-3643.
- [4] a) M. Liu, Z. Zhao, X. Duan, Y. Huang. *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, e1802234; b) A. Mahata, A. S. Nair, B. Pathak. *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2019**, *9*, 4835-4863; c) G. Li, S. Li, J. Ge, C. Liu, W. Xing. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 17221-17229.
- [5] a) C.-Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z.-Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. Hou, F.-Q. Bai, H.-X. Zhang, T.-Y. Ma. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, 7; b) K. Sun, J. Li, L. Huang, S. Ji, P. Kannan, D. Li, L. Liu, S. Liao. *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *412*, 433-441.
- [6] a) S. Abinaya, P. Moni, V. Parthiban, A. K. Sahu, M. Wilhelm. *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 3268-3278; b) Y. Chen, I. Kone, Y. Gong, A. Xie, H. Hu, D. Kong, J. Liu, Y. Tang, X. Yang, R. Pang, P. Wan. *Carbon* **2019**, *152*, 325-334; c) M. Huang, Y. Tang, Y. Gong, Y. Chen, Y. Sun, X. Yang, P. Wan. *ChemElectroChem* **2015**, *2*, 2089-2095; d) N. Huang, L. Yang, M. Zhang, S. Yan, Y. Ding, P. Sun, X. Sun. *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 4522-4532; e) I. Kone, A. Xie, Y. Tang, Y. Chen, J. Liu, Y. Chen, Y. Sun, X. Yang, P. Wan. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 20963-20973; f) Q. Nie, Y. Cai, N. Xu, L. Peng, J. Qiao. *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 1976-1984; g) K. Kumar, I. Abidat, C. Canaff, A. Habrioux, C. Morais, T. W. Napporn, K. B. Kokoh. *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 483-493; h) P. Lang, N. Yuan, Q. Jiang, Y. Zhang, J. Tang. *Energy Technol.* **2020**, *8*, 1900984.
- [7] a) L. Cao, Z.-h. Li, Y. Gu, D.-h. Li, K.-m. Su, D.-j. Yang, B.-w. Cheng. J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5, 11340-11347; b) L. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Liu, L. Long, S. Wang, X. Xu, M. Liu, W. Yang, J. Jia. Carbon 2019, 151, 10-17; c) Y. Cheng, S. He, J. P. Veder, R. De Marco, S. z. Yang, S. Ping Jiang. ChemElectroChem 2019, 6, 3478-3487; d) H. Fei, J. Dong, Y. Feng, C. S. Allen, C. Wan, B. Volosskiy, M. Li, Z. Zhao, Y. Wang, H. Sun, P. An, W. Chen, Z. Guo, C. Lee, D. Chen, I. Shakir, M. Liu, T. Hu, Y. Li, A. I. Kirkland, X. Duan, Y. Huang. Nat. Catal. 2018, 1, 63-72; e) S. Li, C. Cheng, X. Zhao, J. Schmidt, A. Thomas. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 1856-1862; f) J. Wang, F. Ciucci. Small 2017, 13; g) W. Zhang, X. Zhao, Y. Zhao, J. Zhang, X. Li, L. Fang, L. Li. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2020, 12, 10280-10290.
- [8] a) H. Han, S. Chao, Z. Bai, X. Wang, X. Yang, J. Qiao, Z. Chen, L. Yang. *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 1868-1873; b) S. Dutta, Z. Liu, H. Han, A. Indra, T. Song. *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 3571-3588; c) W. Miao, Y. Zhang, H. Li, Z. Zhang, L. Li, Z. Yu, W. Zhang. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 5504-5512.

- [9] a) D. Ding, K. Shen, X. Chen, H. Chen, J. Chen, T. Fan, R. Wu, Y. Li. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 7879-7888; b) C. Wang, J. Kim, J. Tang, M. Kim, H. Lim, V. Malgras, J. You, Q. Xu, J. Li, Y. Yamauchi. Chem 2020, 6, 19-40; c) H. Wang, F. Yin, P. Lv, T. Fan, X. He, B. Chen. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2017, 42, 2127-2133; d) R. Wang, T. Yan, L. Han, G. Chen, H. Li, J. Zhang, L. Shi, D. Zhang. J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 5752-5761; e) X. Yao, J. Li, Y. Zhu, L. Li, W. Zhang. COMPOS PART B-ENG 2020, 193; f) R. R. Haikal, M. H. Hassan, M. H. Alkordi. Energy Technol. 2020, 8, 1900964.
- [10] a) A. Hussain, Y. Liao, Q. Zhang, E. X. Ding, P. Laiho, S. Ahmad, N. Wei, Y. Tian, H. Jiang, E. I. Kauppinen. *Nanoscale* **2018**, *10*, 9752-9759; b) Z. Yang, C. Zhao, Y. Qu, H. Zhou, F. Zhou, J. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Li. *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*.
- [11] a) A. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rösler, H. Antoni, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler. *Chem. Eur. J.* **2017**, *23*, 12125-12130; b) Z. Hu, Z. Zhang, Z. Li, M. Dou, F. Wang. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 16109-16116; c) J. H. Kim, S.-K. Park, Y. J. Oh, Y. C. Kang. *Chem. Eng. J.* **2018**, *334*, 2500-2510; d) S. Wang, J. Qin, T. Meng, M. Cao. *Nano Energy* **2017**, *39*, 626-638.
- [12] a) W. Shi, X. Xu, C. Ye, D. Sha, R. Yin, X. Shen, X. Liu, W. Liu, J. Shen, X. Cao, C. Gao. *Front. Chem.* **2019**, *7*, 449; b) B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, N. Li, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, X. Wang. *Nat. Energy* **2016**, *1*.
- [13] a) M. Gupta, Seema, N. Pandey, S. M. Amir, S. Pütter, S. Mattauch. *J. Magn. Magn. Mater.* **2019**, *489*; b) R.-Q. Li, P. Hu, M. Miao, Y. Li, X.-F. Jiang, Q. Wu, Z. Meng, Z. Hu, Y. Bando, X.-B. Wang. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 24767-24772; c) M. D. Meganathan, S. Mao, T. Huang, G. Sun. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 2972-2980; d) B. Liu, J. Cheng, H.-Q. Peng, D. Chen, X. Cui, D. Shen, K. Zhang, T. Jiao, M. Li, C.-S. Lee, W. Zhang. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 775-782.
- [14] a) J. Meng, C. Niu, L. Xu, J. Li, X. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Xu, W. Chen, Q. Li, Z. Zhu, D. Zhao, L. Mai. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 8212-8221; b) C. Zhao, Y. Wang, Z. Li, W. Chen, Q. Xu, D. He, D. Xi, Q. Zhang, T. Yuan, Y. Qu, J. Yang, F. Zhou, Z. Yang, X. Wang, J. Wang, J. Luo, Y. Li, H. Duan, Y. Wu, Y. Li. Joule 2019, 3, 584-594.
- [15] a) Y. Zhang, J. Ge, L. Wang, D. Wang, F. Ding, X. Tao, W. Chen. *Sci Rep* **2013**, *3*, 2771; b) H. Huang, X. Feng, C. Du, S. Wu, W. Song. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 16050-16056.
- [16] Z. Liu, N. Li, H. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Huang, Z. Yin, Y. Du. Chem. Sci. 2017, 8, 3211-3217.
- [17] A. Ejaz, S. Jeon. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2018, 43, 5690-5702.
- [18] T. Wu, X. Kong, S. Tong, Y. Chen, J. Liu, Y. Tang, X. Yang, Y. Chen, P. Wan. *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, *489*, 321-329.
- [19] J. Su, G. Xia, R. Li, Y. Yang, J. Chen, R. Shi, P. Jiang, Q. Chen. J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 9204-9212.
- [20] W. Zhang, X. Yao, S. Zhou, X. Li, L. Li, Z. Yu, L. Gu. Small 2018, 14, e1800423.

## Table of contents

The present work provides a good and facile strategy in constructing MOF-derived NCNT carbon composites. The hierarchical assembly  $\text{Co}_4\text{N}@\text{NCNTs}$  shows excellent bifunctional ORR and OER electrocatalytic activities. In the rechargeable zinc-air battery test, the bifunctional  $\text{Co}_4\text{N}@\text{NCNTs}$ 

exhibits excellent performance with high discharge, low charge potentials and relatively stable voltage gap (500 cycles), which greatly outperforms those of commercial Pt-Ru/C.