---
source: Krishnamoorthy 等 - 2024 - Synergistic Electronic Interaction of Nitrogen Coordinated Fe‐Sn Double‐Atom Sites An Efficient Ele.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.537s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:10:18.300686Z
---

**[www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

# **Synergistic Electronic Interaction of Nitrogen Coordinated Fe-Sn Double-Atom Sites: An Efficient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Vimal Krishnamoorthy, Palani Sabhapathy,\* Puttikam Raghunath, Chih-Yang Huang, Amr Sabbah, Mahmoud Kamal Hussien, Zeru Syum, Saravanakumar Muthusamy, Ming-Chang Lin, Heng-Liang Wu, Ruei-San Chen,\* Kuei-Hsien Chen,\* and Li-Chyong Chen\**

**Double-atom site catalysts (DASs) have emerged as a recent trend in the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), thereby modifying the intermediate adsorption energies and increasing the activity. However, the lack of an efficient dual atom site to improve activity and durability has limited these catalysts from widespread application. Herein, the nitrogen-coordinated iron and tin-based DASs (Fe-Sn-N/C) catalyst are synthesized for ORR. This catalyst has a high activity with ORR half-wave potentials (E1/2) of 0.92 V in alkaline, which is higher than those of the state-of-the-art Pt/C (E1/2 = 0.83 V), Fe-N/C (E1/2 = 0.83 V), and Sn-N/C (E1/2 = 0.77 V). Scanning electron transmission microscopy analysis confirmed the atomically distributed Fe and Sn sites on the N-doped carbon network. X-ray absorption spectroscopy analysis revealed the charge transfer between Fe and Sn. Both experimental and theoretical results indicate that the Sn with Fe-NC (Fe-Sn-N/C) induces charge redistribution, weakening the binding strength of oxygenated intermediates and leading to improved ORR activity. This study provides the synergistic effects of DASs catalysts and addresses the impacts of P-block elements on d-block transition metals in ORR.**

# **1. Introduction**

A fuel cell is a device that directly converts chemical energy into electrical energy without any harmful byproducts. In proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), hydrogen and oxygen produce electrical energy with water as a byproduct. The sluggish kinetics of the cathode's oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) limits the commercialization of PEMFC.[\[1–5\]](#page-8-0) Although the platinum group metal (PGM) catalysts exhibit considerable catalytic performances in ORR, the high cost and its shortage hindered large-scale applications.[\[6–9\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, low cost, earth abundance, highly stable, and excellent catalytic performances of metal catalysts are crucial for PEMFC.[\[10,11\]](#page-8-0) In recent years, non-precious transition metal catalysts have attracted significant attention in developing ORR catalysts. Among

V. Krishnamoorthy, R.-S. Chen

Graduate Institute of Applied Science and Technology National Taiwan University of Science and Technology

Taipei 10607, Taiwan

E-mail: [rsc@mail.ntust.edu.tw](mailto:rsc@mail.ntust.edu.tw)

V. Krishnamoorthy, P. Sabhapathy[<sup>+</sup>] , C.-Y. Huang, A. Sabbah, H.-L. Wu,

K.-H. Chen, L.-C. Chen

Center for Condensed Matter Sciences

National Taiwan University

Taipei 10617, Taiwan

E-mail: [sxp1359@case.edu;](mailto:sxp1359@case.edu) [chenkh@pub.iams.sinica.edu.tw;](mailto:chenkh@pub.iams.sinica.edu.tw)

[chenlc@ntu.edu.tw](mailto:chenlc@ntu.edu.tw)

[+] Present address: Department of Chemical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA

**DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202301674**

V. Krishnamoorthy, P. Sabhapathy[<sup>+</sup>] , H.-L. Wu, L.-C. Chen Center of Atomic Initiative for New Materials National Taiwan University Taipei 10617, Taiwan

V. Krishnamoorthy, M. K. Hussien, Z. Syum, S. Muthusamy, K.-H. Chen Institute of Atomic and Molecular Sciences

Academia Sinica Taipei 10617, Taiwan

P. Raghunath, M.-C. Lin

Department of Applied Chemistry National Yang-Ming Chiao-Tung University

Hsinchu 30010, Taiwan

L.-C. Chen Department of Physics National Taiwan University Taipei 10617, Taiwan

the non-precious electrocatalysts, the nitrogen-coordinated metal-containing carbon (M-N-C) materials show excellent ORR activity,[\[12–16\]](#page-8-0) Especially iron or cobalt or iron-cobalt nitrogencontaining carbon (Fe or Co or Fe-Co-N-C) materials exhibit best catalytic performances.[\[17–22\]](#page-8-0) Its catalytic activity is close to commercial platinum-carbon (Pt/C) catalyst. The interaction of metal and its ligands is essential in enhancing ORR activity. These kinds of catalysts are also called single-atom catalysts (SACs).

The SACs are heterogeneous catalysts in which a single metal atom is coordinated with ligands. The SACs have gained more attention recently due to their catalytic activity, stability, and selectivity.[\[23,24\]](#page-8-0) It has unique electronic and geometric properties, efficiently facilitating the adsorption and activation of O2 molecules on its active sites. The Co-N-C SAC was discovered by Jasinski in 1964.[\[25\]](#page-8-0) Cobalt phthalocyanine was used to prepare Co-N-C SAC, which showed good ORR activity. This work has stimulated a series of research to synthesize iron phthalocyanine and iron porphyrin kinds of Fe-N-C catalysts. Following these pioneering works, the ORR activity improvement was observed when Fe-N4 macrocyclic compounds underwent pyrolysis at 700°C.[\[26,27\]](#page-8-0) Then, the mixture of iron, nitrogen, and carbon sources pyrolyzed directly to synthesize Fe-N-C catalysts.[\[28,29\]](#page-8-0) These exploratory methods promoted the research interest in the rational design and synthesis of Fe-N-C.[\[30\]](#page-8-0) Even though the Fe-N-C has shown better ORR activity than the Co-N-C catalyst, it is still lower than that of commercial Pt/C catalyst.[\[12,31–35\]](#page-8-0)

To further improve the catalytic activity and selectivity of the Fe-N-C SAC, various hetero metals, such as Co, Ni, Mn, Cu, Al, etc., had been doped with Fe-N-C SAC.[\[31,36–39\]](#page-8-0) This doping type on SACs is called double-atom sites (DASs) catalysts. In these DASs, we can change the d-band center of iron further. This electronic modulation can lead to further improvements in the ORR activity.[\[40–43\]](#page-8-0) As reported by Li et al., the first synthesized Fe/Co-N-C DASs catalyst shows improved catalytic activity compared with Fe-N-C and Co-N-C SACs.[\[43\]](#page-8-0) Likewise, the Fe/Mn-N-C DASs catalyst exhibits excellent ORR catalytic activity in acidic and alkaline mediums.[\[44\]](#page-8-0) However, there is still room to improve the ORR activity of hetero-metallic doped Fe-N-C SAC by optimizing the oxygen binding energy.

This paper reports nitrogen-coordinated Fe and Sn DASs catalysts for ORR. The Fe-Sn-N/C was synthesized via the in situ addition of iron and tin metal sources in the polydopamine, followed by high-temperature pyrolysis with dicyandiamide. Xray diffraction (XRD) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) confirmed the single-atom sites. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) revealed charge transfer between the two metals. This Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst exhibits excellent ORR activity with an onset potential of 1.1 V versus RHE, a half-wave potential of 0.92 V, and a limiting current density of 6.7 mA cm ̶<sup>2</sup> in 0.1 m KOH, which is better than benchmark Pt/C and superior to most of the recently reported non-precious SACs and DASs electrocatalysts. Additionally, the ORR activity of Fe-Sn-N/C is comparable with Pt/C and better than Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C catalysts in 0.1 m HClO4. Experiments and density functional theory (DFT) have demonstrated that the electronic structure of the active Fe center was adjusted by introducing the Sn atom, which can significantly improve the ORR properties.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Physical Characterization of Fe-Sn-N/C**

Polydopamine is a non-toxic and eco-friendly material compared to other nitrogen-doped carbon materials. The selfpolymerization of dopamine easily forms it. Nitrogen groups increase polydopamine's electrical conductivity, which effectively binds with many metals and acts as a favorable catalyst for electrocatalytic reactions. The synthesis process of Fe-Sn-N/C is shown in **Scheme [1](#page-2-0)**. It mainly consists of two steps. Step 1 is the polymerization process of Fe-Sn-polydopamine from dopamine, iron nitrate nonahydrate, and tin chloride pentahydrate in water containing tris buffer. Step 2 is the formation of Fe-Sn-N/C electrocatalyst from the mixture of Fe-Sn-polydopamine and dicyandiamide through a high-temperature pyrolysis process. This one-step pyrolysis treatment is crucial for converting Fe-Sn-polydopamine into an active and porous Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst. Similarly, Fe-N/C SAC and Sn-N/C SAC were synthesized from suitable reactants through a polymerization process.

Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy was performed to investigate the functional groups in the as-prepared electrocatalysts' precursors. As shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), the Fe-polydopamine, Sn-polydopamine, and Fe-Sn-polydopamine showed a typical absorption between 1000 to 1800 cm<sup>−</sup>1. They were attributed to the stretching vibrations of the C─H, C─N, N─H, C═O, C═N, and C═C bonds of the polydopamine, and the absorption between 2800 to 3700 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> was attributed to the stretching vibration of the N─H and O─H bonds of the polydopamine.[\[45–47\]](#page-8-0) No band shifts were observed, which revealed that the reaction process did not affect polydopamine during the iron and tin loading and kept the chemical structure and the properties of the polydopamine stable. The thermal stability of the precursors was analyzed by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) (Figure S2, Supporting Information). All the catalysts' precursors show excellent thermal stability up to ≈200 °C and undergo a sharp weight loss between ≈200 to 500 °C. Finally, the residual weights of 5.45, 9.86, and 15.60% have remained at the temperature between ≈500 to 900 °C; they correspond to the Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, and Fe-Sn-N/C, respectively. The Fe-Sn-N/C has higher residual at higher temperatures than the single atom Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C. This indicates the presence of dual metals on the N-doped carbon.

The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of Fe-Sn-N/C (**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-2-0) demonstrated a very rough and completely amorphous nature, like that of Fe-N/C (Figure S3a, Supporting Information) and Sn-N/C (Figure S3b, Supporting Information). A high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) image of Fe-Sn-N/C is presented in Figure [1b,](#page-2-0) indicating the absence of metallic metals, oxides, or carbides. The homogenous distribution of metals on the nitrogen-doped carbon can be confirmed by the aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF STEM) image (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0), in which many small bright dots are assigned to Fe and Sn. The HAADF-STEM and its corresponding energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping of Fe-Sn-N/C exhibit the uniform distribution of N, Fe, and Sn elements on the carbon materials (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0).

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** The two-step synthesis process of Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst.

**Figure [2](#page-3-0)**a shows the X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, and Fe-Sn-N/C. The carbonized catalysts show one dominant broad peak ≈24°, corresponding to the (002) planes of the graphitic carbon and stacked structure of polydopamine.[\[48,49\]](#page-8-0) Peaks related to metallic iron or tin and its oxides were not observed, which is consistent with STEM results. It is also confirmed that the introduction of iron and tin did not affect the crystallinity structure of N-doped carbon. The Raman spectra further investigated the nature of the carbon, and the results are presented in Figure S4a–c (Supporting Information). All the catalysts reveal two predominant peaks ≈1345 and 1590 cm<sup>−</sup>1, corresponding to the D and G bands, respectively. The D band represents the structural defects of carbon materials. Meanwhile, the G band represents the sp<sup>2</sup> hybridized graphitic domains of

**Figure 1.** Electron microscopic analysis for as-synthesized Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst. a) SEM image (Scale bar: 1 μm) b) TEM image (Scale bar: 10 nm) c) AC-HAADF-STEM image (Scale bar: 2 nm) d) HAADF-STEM image and corresponding EDS mappings of Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst show the uniform distribution of N, Fe, and Sn on the carbon material (Scale bar: 50 nm).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Structural characterization of the Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe-N/C, and Sn-N/C catalysts. a) XRD spectra of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, and Fe-Sn-N/C. High-resolution deconvoluted XPS spectra of b) N 1s of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, and Fe-Sn-N/C, c) Sn 3d of Sn-N/C and Fe-Sn-N/C and d) Fe 2p of Fe-N/C and Fe-Sn-N/C. Fe K-edge XANES spectra e) and Fourier transform of the EXAFS spectra f) for FePc, Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe2O3, and Fe foil samples.

the in-plane vibration of the carbon atoms. The D and G bands (ID/IG) ratio is used to evaluate the defects or disorders in carbon structures, which is crucial for creating more active sites. If the ID/IG ratio is increased, more defectiveness is present in the catalyst. The ID/IG ratios for Fe-Sn-N/C, Sn-N/C, and Fe-N/C are 1.08, 1.03, and 1.02, respectively. Interestingly, all the catalysts exhibit nearly the same ID/IG ratio and are slightly higher than 1, indicating significant graphitization occurring on the nitrogen-doped carbon despite incorporating iron and tin. This graphitization is responsible for higher electronic conductivity and protects the catalysts from corrosion.[\[50–53\]](#page-8-0) In a detailed analysis, the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst shows more defects than Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C catalysts (Figure S4d, Supporting Information). The surface volume and the pore size of Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe-N/C, and Sn-N/C were calculated from nitrogen adsorption and desorption isotherm analyzed by Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) and Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) methods as shown in Figure S5 (Supporting Information), and the relative parameters are summarized in Table S1 (Supporting Information). The specific surface area of the Fe-Sn-N/C was calculated to be 244.4 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1, which is almost similar to that of Fe-N/C (240.9 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) and lower than that of Sn-N/C (331.7 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1). But the pore volume of the Fe-Sn-N/C (1.505 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) is much larger than that of both Fe-N/C (0.982 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) and Sn-N/C (1.03 cm3 g<sup>−</sup>1). The large pore volume with sufficient surface area is favorable for increasing the active site density and promoting O2 diffusion during the Oxygen Reduction Reaction (ORR) process.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to analyze the as-prepared electrocatalysts' elemental composition and valence states. The XPS survey spectrum expresses the elemental composition (Figure S6, Supporting Information). This reveals that carbon is the dominant element, and the remaining iron, tin, and nitrogen presented relatively low percentages. The highresolution XPS N1s spectrum of Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe-N/C, and Sn-N/C are shown in Figure 2b and fitted to four nitrogen peaks centered at 398.5, 399.8, 401.1, and 403.0 eV, corresponding to pyridinic-N, pyrrolic-N, graphitic-N, and oxidized-N, respectively. The Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst possesses primarily pyridinic-N and graphitic-N followed by pyrrolic N in sequence. But Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C catalysts contain unbalanced pyridinic N and graphitic N and more pyrrolic N than Fe-Sn-N/C catalysts (Table S2, Supporting Information).

Figure 2c shows the high resolution of Sn 3d XPS spectra of Fe-Sn-N/C and Sn-N/C. Two prominent peaks were observed corresponding to Sn 3d3/2 and Sn 3d5/2. In the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst, the Sn 3d binding energy shows a negative shift of 0.22 eV, indicating increased Sn's Fermi level electron density due to the electron transfer from Fe to Sn. The high resolution of Fe 2p XPS spectra further confirmed the charge transfer. As shown in Figure 2d, after Sn addition to Fe-N/C, the Fe 2p peak shifts to higher binding energy (ΔE = 0.29 eV), indicating the decreases of Fermi level electron density of Fe in the Fe-Sn-N/C due to the electron-donating effects of Fe to the Sn atom. This Sn atom helped to modulate the binding energy of oxygen intermediates on the Fe active sites. Therefore, this suitable binding energy coupled with pyridinic N and graphitic N helped to enhance the ORR activity in the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst. Fe K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) analysis of Fe-Sn-N/C shows lower

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrochemical ORR activity in alkaline medium (0.1 m KOH): a) LSV curves of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and commercial Pt/C. b) Comparison of Jk at 0.8 V of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and commercial Pt/C. c) Contrasting the onset potential and E1/2 for Fe-Sn-N/C and other catalysts in Table S5 (Supporting Information). d) Tafel slopes of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and commercial Pt/C. e) Electron-transfer number (n) and H2O2 yield of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and Pt/C. f) Accelerated durability testing was performed by cycling the potential in the 0.6–1.0 V range.

pre-edge energy of Fe2O3 (+3 oxidation state), which is higher than that of the Fe foil (0 oxidation state) and close to FePc (+2 oxidation state), indicating that the oxidation state of Fe in Fe-Sn-N/C is close to +2 (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0). Fourier transforms (FT) of the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectrum of Fe-Sn-N/C (phase uncorrected) reveals a predominant peak at ≈1.45 Å, corresponding to the Fe–N first coordination shell (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0).[\[36\]](#page-8-0) No pronounced Fe–Fe peaks at *>* 2 Å are observed, indicating no Fe clusters are formed, consistent with the XRD and HAADF-STEM results. The fitted coordination number and bond length between Fe and N are 4 and 1.95 Å (Figure S7 and Table S3, Supporting Information), respectively. "Besides Fe Kedge, we did Sn K-edge to see Sn's charge density and coordination environment in Fe-Sn-N/C. Sn K-edge XANES and EXAFS analysis of Fe-Sn-N/C are shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information). No Sn-Sn bond was observed (Figure S8a,b, Supporting Information), and the white line of Fe-Sn-N/C is lower than Sn-N/C, implying high electron density (Figure S8c,d, Supporting Information)." The XANES and EXAFS spectra of Fe-N/C are shown in Figure S9a (Supporting Information) and Figure S9b (Supporting Information). In comparison, the white line intensity of Fe-Sn-N/C is higher than Fe-N/C, indicating a low electron density of Fe (Figure S9c,d, Supporting Information), consistent with Fe 2p XPS and Sn K-edge results.

#### **2.2. ORR Electrocatalytic Activity in Alkaline and Acidic Medium**

The as-prepared electrocatalyst's electrochemical performance was studied using a three-electrode system containing a rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at room temperature. First, cyclic voltammetry (CV) was performed in O2-saturated and Arsaturated electrolytes for the Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe-N/C, and Sn-N/C catalysts (Figure S10, Supporting Information). In the Ar-saturated electrolyte, no reduction peaks are observed, in sharp contrast to the case of the O2-saturated solution, indicating the ORR activity of the catalysts. The Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst exposes higher active sites toward ORR due to the large porosity, and its Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) shows an outstanding ORR activity with a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.92 V and a limiting current density of 6.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, both of which are higher than those of Fe-N/C (0.83 V, 4.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Sn-N/C (0.78 V, 4.2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (**Figure 3**a). It is also worth noting that Fe-Sn-N/C exhibits kinetic current density (Jk) up to 24.47 mA cm–2 at 0.8 V in 0.1 m KOH, which are 11, 3, and 2 times higher than those of Sn-N/C, Fe-N/C, and Pt/C, respectively (Figure 3b; Table S4, Supporting Information). Moreover, the E1/2 of Fe-Sn-N/C is almost 90 mV more positive than that of state-of-art Pt/C (0.83 V), which is superior to PGM-free electrocatalysts reported to date (Figure 3c; Table S5, Supporting Information). Figure 3d shows the Tafel plots of Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, and Pt/C derived from Figure 3a. The Fe-Sn-N/C exhibits a low Tafel slope value (69 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), which is better than those of Fe-N/C (78 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Sn-N/C (112 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and Pt/C (79 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating fast ORR kinetics. RRDE technique was used to determine the electron-transfer number and hydrogen peroxide yield. As shown in Figure 3e, the electron-transfer number of Fe-Sn-N/C is almost 4, over the potential range of 0.2 to 0.8 V, similar to Pt/C but much better than Fe-N/C (3.8 to 3.9) and Sn-N/C (3.77

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

to 3.84). Furthermore, the hydrogen peroxide yield of Fe-Sn-N/C remains below 5% at all potentials.

The durability of the ORR catalyst is of utmost importance when considering its actual applicability. The stability test was conducted by continuous cyclic CV measurements in O2 saturated alkaline at a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> between 0.6 and 1.0 V (vs RHE). After continuing 10 000 potential cycles, the E1/2 of Fe-Sn-N/C shows a negative shift of 29 mV, which is better than those of Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0). Furthermore, the LSV curves of all samples at different rotating speeds (Figure S11a–c, Supporting Information) were also recorded to know the kinetics of ORR through the Koutecky–Levich (K–L) equation with the corresponding plots presented (Figure S11d–f, Supporting Information). These results indicate that dissolved oxygen concentration follows the first-order reaction kinetics.[\[54,55\]](#page-8-0)

To better understand the origin of the excellent ORR activity of Fe-Sn-N/C, the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) was measured. The cyclic voltammograms were performed at different scan rates (5 to 25 mV s<sup>−</sup>1) for these measurements. From the oxidation and reduction current densities, the double layer capacitance (Cdl) was calculated by the linear fitting of differential current versus scan rates, as shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information), and values are listed in Table S6 (Supporting Information). Among the as-prepared catalysts, the Fe-Sn-N/C (701.5 m<sup>2</sup> g–1) shows higher ECSA and exposes more active sites toward ORR compared to the Fe-N/C (422 m<sup>2</sup> g–1) and Sn-N/C (651.5 m<sup>2</sup> g–1) in alkaline medium (Figure S13a, Supporting Information). This is because the Cdl is linearly proportional to the ECSA.[\[56\]](#page-8-0) The ECSA value for Fe-Sn-N/C is much higher, and ECSA normalized ORR activity is still better than Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C (Figure S13b, Supporting Information). To check the charge transfer resistance (Rct) of the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) studies were carried out at a potential of 0.7 V. Figure S14 (Supporting Information), explains the Nyquist plots of interfacial charge transfer between the catalysts and the electrolyte. The smallest semicircle obtained for the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst due to the lowest charge transfer resistance means the fast charge transfer occurred during the ORR. In contrast, the Fe-N/C exhibits relatively higher charge transfer resistance than Fe-Sn-N/C, while the Sn-N/C shows the highest charge transfer resistance than Fe-N/C and Fe-Sn-N/C catalysts. Hence, the dual-site Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst exhibits excellent ORR activity with high E1/2, large limiting current density, good stability, and high Cdl and ECSA than single-site Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C catalysts.

ORR activity in acidic was generally viewed as a more challenging process than the ORR under an alkaline medium. Based on this consideration, the ORR activity of Fe-Sn-N/C was studied in O2-saturated 0.1 m HClO4. CV curves show the clear reduction peak in the O2-saturated electrolyte, indicating the ORR activity of the catalysts (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The ORR activity in an acidic medium follows a similar trend as in an alkaline medium. LSV curves show that the Fe-Sn-N/C delivers excellent activity with E1/2 of 0.83 V, better than Fe-N/C (0.74 V) and Sn-N/C (0.45 V) (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0). Compared to commercial Pt/C (0.87 V), the E1/2 value is only 40 mV lower and better or comparable to recently reported PGM-free electrocatalysts (Table S7, Supporting Information). The Jk of Fe-Sn-N/C is 8.94 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.8 V, better than Fe-N/C (1.75 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Sn-N/C (0.42 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure S16 and Table S4, Supporting Information). Tafel analysis further confirmed the fast ORR kinetics of Fe-Sn-N/C with low Tafel slope (83 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), lower than Fe-N/C (121 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and Sn-N/C (386 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0). The RRDE technique determined all the catalysts' n-values and hydrogen peroxide yield. This RRDE measurement confirmed the direct 4 electron transfer ORR with low hydrogen peroxide yield (Figure [4c\)](#page-6-0). Figure [4d](#page-6-0) shows the stability test of Fe-Sn-N/C; after 10 000 potential cycles, the E1/2 of Fe-Sn-N/C shows a negative shift of 37 mV. The K-L plot confirmed the first-order ORR kinetics (Figure S17, Supporting Information).

A simple CV method calculates the Cdl of all the catalysts in an acidic medium. Figure S18 (Supporting Information) shows that the Fe-Sn-N/C exhibits the highest double layer current than Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C (Table S8, Supporting Information). The ECSA for Fe-Sn-N/C is estimated to be 763.5 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1, higher than those for Fe-N/C (418 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) and Sn-N/C (629 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure S19a, Supporting Information). The ECSA-normalized ORR activity of Fe-Sn-N/C is still better than those of Fe-N/C and Sn-N/C (Figure S19b, Supporting Information). Interestingly, we observed that the ORR activity of the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst was strongly dependent on the Fe-Sn ratio (Figure S20, Supporting Information), catalyst loading (Figure S21, Supporting Information), and pyrolysis temperature (Figure S22, Supporting Information). Optimized conditions such as 800 °C pyrolysis temperature, 1 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> catalyst loading, and Fe-Sn ratio of 1:1 were used for ORR measurement (alkaline and acid). Finally, we performed proton exchange membrane fuel cell for Fe-Sn-N/C and commercial 20% Pt/C catalysts. As shown in Figure S23 (Supporting Information), the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst achieved the power density of 485 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, and the 20% Pt/C catalyst reached the power density of 775 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, consistent with RDE results in an acidic medium. Further, we believe better fuel cell performances can be achieved in anion exchange membrane fuel cells.

#### **2.3. Theoretical Calculations**

Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations were carried out to understand the intrinsic ORR property of the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst. Based on the experimental studies, N coordinated Fe-Sn dual sites along with single site catalysts (denoted as FeSn-N6 for Fe-Sn-N/C, Fe-N4 for Fe-N/C and Sn-N4 for Sn-N/C, respectively) were constructed (**Figure 5**[a;](#page-7-0) Figure S24, Supporting Information). We performed a charge density analysis to assess the charge transfer. Compared to the Fe-N4 model (Figure S25a, Supporting Information), the electron accumulation on the Fe site is dramatically decreased (Figure [5b\)](#page-7-0) in the FeSn-N6 system, indicating electron transfer from Fe to Sn via bridge N. A similar trend was observed between the Sn site in the FeSn-N6 model and Sn-N4 (Figure S25b, Supporting Information). The Bader charge analysis further confirmed that the Sn gains the electron from Fe (Figure S26, Supporting Information), consistent with the experimental results.

The optimized structure of Sn-N4, FeSn-N6 (Fe site), and FeSn-N6 (Sn site) with oxygenated intermediates (\*O2, \*OOH, \*OH, and \*O) are shown in Figure S27 (Supporting Information), Figure S28 (Supporting Information), and Figure S29 (Supporting Information), respectively. The intermediate's adsorption

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrochemical ORR activity in acidic medium (0.1 m HClO4): a) LSV curves of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and commercial Pt/C. b) Tafel slopes of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and commercial Pt/C. c) Electron-transfer number (n) and H2O2 yield of Fe-N/C, Sn-N/C, Fe-Sn-N/C, and Pt/C. d) Accelerated durability testing was performed by cycling the potential in the 0.6–1.0 V range.

energies (ΔG) are listed in Table S9 (Supporting Information). Figure [5c](#page-7-0) compares the free energy diagram of the oxygenated intermediates in ORR on FeSn-N6 (Fe site and Sn site), Fe-N4, and Sn-N4 with solvation correction. The downslope energy pathways show that all models display exothermic processes at zero electrode potential (U = 0 V vs RHE; Figure S30, Table S10, Supporting Information).[\[55\]](#page-8-0) Several endothermic steps occurred after increasing the potential to 1.23 V (Figure [5c\)](#page-7-0). The ORR on Fe-N4 is rate limited at the last electron transfer step (\*OH + H++ e<sup>−</sup> → H2O + \*), and an energy barrier of 0.46 V is required to overcome this step.[\[55\]](#page-8-0) In contrast, in ORR on Sn-N4, the rate-limiting step is first electron transfer (O2 + H<sup>+</sup> + e<sup>−</sup> + \* → \*OOH) due to the weak O2 adsorption and the required energy barrier is more than 1.1 V consistent with experimental ORR results in acidic medium. In the case of the FeSn-N6 model, we consider Fe or Sn as an active site for ORR. Assuming the Sn is an active site in the FeSn-N6 model, the free energy diagram shows that the first electron transfer is a rate-limiting step with the highest energy barrier of 0.96 V, this value lower than the Sn-N4 model but still higher than Fe-N4. On the other hand, considering that Fe is an active site, the rate-limiting step was protonation of \*O2 to \*OOH rather than the conventional O═O bond-breaking or final electron step with the lowest energy barrier of 0.36 V, better than the Sn site in FeSn-N6 and single-site catalysts (Fe-N4 and Sn-N4). In addition to that, the free energy diagram clearly shows that all four electron steps are very close to the ideal catalyst (dashed line in Figure S30, Supporting Information), suggesting the Fe site in FeSn-N6 possessed the highest ORR activity. Overall, the DFT results indicate that adding Sn into the Fe-N4 system significantly changes the charge distribution of Fe, weakens the oxygenated intermediates, and thus modulates its catalytic ORR activity, as shown in the reaction mechanism (Figure [5d\)](#page-7-0).

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, our successful demonstration highlights the effectiveness of the Fe-Sn-N/C dual-site catalyst as an active site for ORR in both alkaline and acidic environments. The as-prepared Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst accelerates ORR's sluggish kinetics and showcases outstanding activity and long-term stability. Remarkably, it outperforms state-of-the-art Pt/C, Fe-N/C, and Sn-N/C in alkaline conditions. Additionally, the Fe-Sn-N/C catalyst, following the 4-electron pathways, narrows the potential gap between Pt/C and the non-precious metal catalysts in an acidic media. Both experimental and DFT calculations elucidate that the presence of Sn in the FeN4 site enhances the ORR activity by regulating the charge distribution and controlling the intermediate adsorption energy. This study not only introduces an innovative strategy for designing rational catalysts (double SACs) and fine-tuning the electronic state of the Fe-N/C metal center by introducing heterometals but also paves the way for developing more efficient dual-active-site electrocatalysts from non-precious metals for various energy-related applications, including CO2RR, water splitting, and more.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** DFT calculations and schematic illustration of the proposed ORR mechanism. a) Atomistic structure of FeSn-N6 catalyst. b) Charge density difference diagrams (left: Fe site at FeSn-N6; right: Sn site at FeSn-N6; yellow: electron accumulation; cyan: electron depletion). c) ORR Gibbs free energy changes for four models (FeSn-N6 (Fe site), FeSn-N6 (Sn site), Fe-N4, and Sn-N4) at U = 1.23 V. d) Possible acidic ORR mechanism on FeSn-N6 (Fe site) electrocatalyst.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This study was financially supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) in Taiwan (under the Science Vanguard Project [109-2123- M-002-004 and 110-2123-M-002-006] and Taiwan-India program of cooperation [111-2923-M-002 −012 -MY3]), the i-MATE program [AS- iMATE-110-34] of Academia Sinica, and the Center of Atomic Initiative for New Materials (AI-Mat), National Taiwan University [109 L9008 and 110 L9008], from the Featured Areas Research Center Program within the framework of the Higher Education Sprout Project by the Ministry of Education (MOE) in Taiwan. Finally, Vimal thanks the MOE Elite Scholarship program and the National Taiwan University of Science and Technology (NTUST) Scholarship program for additional financial support.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

d-block metal, Double-atom sites, Fe-Sn-N/C, oxygen reduction, P-block metal

> Received: December 2, 2023 Revised: January 11, 2024 Published online: January 29, 2024

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[1] X. Xie, C. He, B. Li, Y. He, D. A. Cullen, E. C. Wegener, A. J. Kropf, U. Martinez, Y. Cheng, M. H. Engelhard, M. E. Bowden, M. Song, T. Lemmon, X. S. Li, Z. Nie, J. Liu, D. J. Myers, P. Zelenay, G. Wang, G. Wu, V. Ramani, Y. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 1044.
- [2] Z. P. Cano, D. Banham, S. Ye, A. Hintennach, J. Lu, M. Fowler, Z. Chen, *Nat. Energy* **2018**, *3*, 279.
- [3] M. K. Debe, *Nature* **2012**, *486*, 43.
- [4] H. Xie, X. Xie, G. Hu, V. Prabhakaran, S. Saha, L. Gonzalez-Lopez, A. H. Phakatkar, M. Hong, M. Wu, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, V. Ramani, M. I. Al-Sheikhly, D. Jiang, Y. Shao, L. Hu, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 281.
- [5] J. Liu, S. Liu, F. Yan, Z. Wen, W. Chen, X. Liu, Q. Liu, J. Shang, R. Yu, D. Su, J. Shui, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 19106.
- [6] P. Zhu, X. Xiong, X. Wang, C. Ye, J. Li, W. Sun, X. Sun, J. Jiang, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 9507.
- [7] X. Hu, S. Chen, L. Chen, Y. Tian, S. Yao, Z. Lu, X. Zhang, Z. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 18144.
- [8] X. Tian, X. Zhao, Y.-Q. Su, L. Wang, H. Wang, D. Dang, B. Chi, H. Liu, E. J. M. Hensen, X. W. (David) Lou, B. Y. Xia, *Science* **2019**, *366*, 850.
- [9] A. Kongkanand, M. F. Mathias, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2016**, *7*, 1127.
- [10] Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254.
- [11] Q. Li, W. Chen, H. Xiao, Y. Gong, Z. Li, L. Zheng, X. Zheng, W. Yan, W. Cheong, R. Shen, N. Fu, L. Gu, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, D. Wang, Q. Peng, J. Li, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800588.
- [12] C. Zhao, B. Li, J. Liu, Q. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 4448.
- [13] Y.-C. Wang, W. Huang, L.-Y. Wan, J. Yang, R.-J. Xie, Y.-P. Zheng, Y.-Z. Tan, Y.-S. Wang, K. Zaghib, L.-R. Zheng, S.-H. Sun, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, add8873.
- [14] H. C. Honig, L. Elbaz, *ChemElectroChem* **2023**, *10*, 202300042.
- [15] M. Lefèvre, E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, J.-P. Dodelet, *Science* **2009**, *324*, 71.
- [16] J. S. Bates, M. R. Johnson, F. Khamespanah, T. W. Root, S. S. Stahl, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 6233.
- [17] L. Chong, J. Wen, J. Kubal, F. G. Sen, J. Zou, J. Greeley, M. Chan, H. Barkholtz, W. Ding, D.-J. Liu, *Science* **2018**, *362*, 1276.
- [18] Y. Xie, X. Chen, K. Sun, J. Zhang, W. Lai, H. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem.* **2023**, *135*, 202301833.
- [19] P.-G. Julliard, M. Hanana, L. Alvarez, R. Cornut, B. Jousselme, G. Canard, S. Campidelli, *Energy Fuels* **2023**, *37*, 684.
- [20] K. K. Hazarika, B. Chutia, R. R. Changmai, P. K. Boruah, M. R. Das, P. Bharali, *ChemElectroChem* **2022**, *9*, 202200867.
- [21] Y. Wu, X. Li, K. Hua, X. Duan, R. Ding, Z. Rui, F. Cao, M. Yuan, J. Li, J. Liu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207671.
- [22] S. Bhunia, A. Ghatak, A. Rana, A. Dey, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 3812.
- [23] C. Xia, Y. Qiu, Y. Xia, P. Zhu, G. King, X. Zhang, Z. Wu, J. Y. Kim, D. A. Cullen, D. Zheng, P. Li, M. Shakouri, E. Heredia, P. Cui, H. N. Alshareef, Y. Hu, H. Wang, *Nat. Chem.* **2021**, *13*, 887.
- [24] H. Xu, D. Cheng, D. Cao, X. C. Zeng, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 339.
- [25] R. Jasinski, *Nature* **1964**, *201*, 1212.
- [26] S. Gupta, D. Tryk, I. Bae, W. Aldred, E. Yeager, *J. Appl. Electrochem.* **1989**, *19*, 19.
- [27] H. Jahnke, M. Schönborn, G. Zimmermann, in *Physical and Chemical Applications of Dyestuffs*, Springer-Verlag, Berlin/Heidelberg **1976**, pp. 133–181.
- [28] C. Zhu, H. Li, S. Fu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 517.
- [29] C. R. Raj, A. Samanta, S. H. Noh, S. Mondal, T. Okajima, T. Ohsaka, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 11156.

- [30] F. Jaouen, J. Herranz, M. Lefèvre, J.-P. Dodelet, U. I. Kramm, I. Herrmann, P. Bogdanoff, J. Maruyama, T. Nagaoka, A. Garsuch, J. R. Dahn, T. Olson, S. Pylypenko, P. Atanassov, E. A. Ustinov, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2009**, *1*, 1623.
- [31] G. Wu, K. L. More, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, *Science* **2011**, *332*, 443.
- [32] J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935.
- [33] L. Zhong, S. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 4313.
- [34] B. Lu, Q. Liu, S. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 7584.
- [35] J. Wang, C. Liu, S. Li, Y. Li, Q. Zhang, Q. Peng, J. S. Tse, Z. Wu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *428*, 132558.
- [36] W. Wan, Y. Zhao, S. Wei, C. A. Triana, J. Li, A. Arcifa, C. S. Allen, R. Cao, G. R. Patzke, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 5589.
- [37] G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B.-A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734.
- [38] Q. He, X. Yang, X. Ren, B. E. Koel, N. Ramaswamy, S. Mukerjee, R. Kostecki, *J. Power Sources* **2011**, *196*, 7404.
- [39] J. Li, J. Chen, H. Wan, J. Xiao, Y. Tang, M. Liu, H. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *242*, 209.
- [40] M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763.
- [41] Z. Yu, C. Si, A. P. LaGrow, Z. Tai, W. A. Caliebe, A. Tayal, M. J. Sampaio, J. P. S. Sousa, I. Amorim, A. Araujo, L. Meng, J. L. Faria, J. Xu, B. Li, L. Liu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 9397.
- [42] H. Li, S. Di, P. Niu, S. Wang, J. Wang, L. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 1601.
- [43] J. Wang, Z. Huang, W. Liu, C. Chang, H. Tang, Z. Li, W. Chen, C. Jia, T. Yao, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17281.
- [44] J. Bai, Y. Fu, P. Zhou, P. Xu, L. Wang, J. Zhang, X. Jiang, Q. Zhou, Y. Deng, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 29986.
- [45] H. Luo, C. Gu, W. Zheng, F. Dai, X. Wang, Z. Zheng, *RSC Adv.* **2015**, *5*, 13470.
- [46] E. Farzad, H. Veisi, *J. Ind. Eng. Chem.* **2018**, *60*, 114.
- [47] D.-D. Wang, X. Gao, L. Zhao, J. Zhou, S. Zhuo, Z. Yan, W. Xing, *RSC Adv.* **2018**, *8*, 16044.
- [48] F. Tang, H. Lei, S. Wang, H. Wang, Z. Jin, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 17364.
- [49] X. Han, X. Chen, M. Yan, H. Liu, *Particuology* **2019**, *44*, 63.
- [50] C.-H. Wang, S.-T. Chang, H.-C. Hsu, H.-Y. Du, J. C.-S. Wu, L.-C. Chen, K.-H. Chen, *Diamond Relat. Mater.* **2011**, *20*, 322.
- [51] Y. Zhan, F. Xie, H. Zhang, Z. Lin, J. Huang, W. Zhang, X. Sun, Y. Zhang, J. Chen, H. Meng, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, J3008.
- [52] A. Ait El Fakir, Z. Anfar, M. Enneiymy, A. Jada, N. El Alem, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *300*, 120732.
- [53] S. Y. Chen, Y. L. Kuo, Y. M. Wang, W. M. Hsu, T. H. Chien, C. F. Lin, C. H. Kuo, A. Okino, T. C. Chiang, *Catalysts* **2021**, *11*, 627.
- [54] Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780.
- [55] P. Sabhapathy, P. Raghunath, A. Sabbah, I. Shown, K. S. Bayikadi, R. Xie, V. Krishnamoorthy, M. Lin, K. Chen, L. Chen, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2303598.
- [56] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16977.