---
source: Li 等 - 2023 - Promoting Oxygen Reduction Reaction by Inducing Out‐of‐Plane Polarization in a Metal Phthalocyanine.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.656s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:18:01.998594Z
---

# **Promoting Oxygen Reduction Reaction by Inducing Out-of-Plane Polarization in a Metal Phthalocyanine Catalyst**

*Xiyu Li, Xingshun Wu, Yuan Zhao, Yunxiang Lin,\* Jiahui Zhao, Chuanqiang Wu, Hengjie Liu, Lei Shan, Li Yang, Li Song,\* and Jun Jiang\**

**Metal phthalocyanine (MPc) material with a well-defined MN4 moiety offers a platform for catalyzing the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), while the practical performance is often limited by the insufficient O2 adsorption due to the planar MN4 configuration. Here, a design (called Gr-MG-O-MPPc) is proposed, where the metal of MPc (MP) is axially coordinated to a single metal atom in graphene (Gr-MG) through a bridge-bonded oxygen atom (O), introducing effective out-of-plane polarization to promote O2 adsorption on MPc. Manipulating the out-of-plane polarization charge by varying types of MP and MG (MP = Fe/Co/Ni, MG = Ti/V/Cr/Mn/Fe/Co/Ni) in the axial coordination zone of -MG-O-MP- are examined by density functional theory simulations. Among them, the catalyst of Gr-V-O-FePc stands out with the highest calculated O2 adsorption energy, which is synthesized successfully and verified by systemic X-ray absorption spectroscopy measurements. Importantly, it delivers a remarkable ORR performance with half-wave potential of 0.925 V (versus reversible hydrogen electrode) and kinetic current density of 26.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. This thus demonstrates a new and simple way to pursue high catalytic performance by inducing out-of-plane polarization in catalysts.**

**1. Introduction**

Developing efficient catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is of great importance for many energy applications such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[1–5] Standing at the initial step of ORR, the adsorption of oxygen molecule (O2) on active site plays a critical role in determining the overall ORR performances.[6–8] As the benchmark catalysts, platinum (Pt)-based materials exhibit excellent O2 adsorption and activation ability, but the scarcity of Pt impedes their large-scale applications.[9–14] It is demanded to find cost-effective catalyst based on earth-abundant elements.

Recently, metal phthalocyanine (MPc) based catalysts with special four-fold nitrogen coordination (MN4) active site have exhibited promising ORR activity.[15,16] However, the planar structure of MN4 site disfavors the adsorption of O2 molecule which thus limits the overall catalytic performance.[17–19] Owing to the typical 2D planar and symmetrical structure of MN4, the metal site in MPc normally has no out-of-plane polarization (**Figure 1**a), while it is known that the process of molecular adsorption to catalytic active site is strongly related to its electric polarization.[20–23] For instance, one of our previous works suggests that designing curvature at the active site can induce polarization charge for promoting catalytic performance.[24] Meanwhile, the strategy of introducing axial coordination modification, breaking the plane symmetry of MN4, induces electric polarization.[25,26] For example, the axial coordination

of Fe–O in FePc evokes electronic localization on the Fe atom, resulting in axial asymmetry of charge distribution and enhanced O2 adsorption ability.[19] Until now, different types of axial coordination have been implemented to break the plane symmetry of MN4, [27–30] supporting attempts to tune out-of-plane polarization.

In this work, we proposed a catalyst system consisting of a MPc molecule axially coordinated with a single metal atom incorporated in the graphene substrate through a bridge-bonded oxygen atom (Figure 1b, denoted as Gr-MG-O-MPPc, MG represents the

X. Li Songshan Lake Materials Laboratory Dongguan, Guangdong 523808, P. R. China X. Wu, Y. Lin, J. Zhao, C. Wu, L. Shan, L. Yang Institutes of Physical Science and Information Technology Anhui University Hefei, Anhui 230601, P. R. China E-mail: lyx2015@ahu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202302467

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202302467**

Y. Zhao, H. Liu, L. Song, J. Jiang Key Laboratory of Precision and Intelligent Chemistry, School of Chemistry and Materials Science National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230026, P. R. China E-mail: song2012@ustc.edu.cn; jiangj1@ustc.edu.cn Y. Zhao School of Physics and Optoelectronic Engineering Ludong University Yantai, Shandong 264025, P.R. China

**Figure 1.** Scheme of induced out-of-plane polarization by axial asymmetry of charge density. a) MPc signature with centrosymmetric plane structure. b) Schematic illustration of proposed catalyst with MPc axially coordinated with the single metal atom incorporated on graphene. c) Curving distance of the MP site. Note: the curving distance is determined as the perpendicular distance from the MP atom to the marginal H atom, directly scaling with curvature. d) Charge density distribution of axial coordination MG-O-MP. e) Schematic illustration of out-of-plane polarization induced by the axial asymmetry of charge density.

metal atom on graphene and MP represents the metal atom on MPc). Importantly, the axial coordination zone of -MG-O-MP- naturally induces axial asymmetry distribution of charge density, resulting in out-of-plane polarization. The polarization charge of -MG-O-MP- axial coordination zone and the curvature of MP site can be effectively regulated by locating particular types of MG and MP atoms (MP = Fe/Co/Ni, MG = Ti/V/Cr/Mn/Fe/Co/Ni). Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the O2 adsorption energy depends linearly with the polarization charge. The catalyst of Gr-V-O-FePc with the most favorable O2 adsorption and activation is a promising candidate catalyst for ORR, which was successfully fabricated and verified by high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and the X-ray absorption spectroscopies (XAS). Encouragingly, it exhibits excellent ORR performance with superior half-wave potential (0.925 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)) and limited current density (26.7 Ma cm<sup>−</sup>2) in alkaline condition. The zinc–air battery (ZAB) assembled by Gr-V-O-FePc achieves a maximum power density and capacity exceeding those of commercial Pt/C catalysts. This work presents a novel catalyst design based on MPc, as well as a new way of tuning out-of-plane polarization for improved catalytic performance.

#### **2. Results and discussion**

In the designed catalysts, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc are selected for two main reasons: firstly, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc are the three most studied metal phthalocyanine for improved catalytic activity;

**Figure 2.** The effect of out-of-plane polarization charge on O2 adsorption energy. a) The schematic illustration of the out-of-polarization dipole and O2 molecule dipole included angle . b) The projected density of states (PDOS) of MG, O and MP atoms in the axial coordination of MG-O-MP. c) The numbers of charge accumulation on MG-O-MP from Bader charge analysis. d) The curving distance of the MP site MG-O-MP. e) The O2 adsorption energies nearly linearly functioning with polarization charge on MG-O-MP.

secondly, the practical cost of Fe/Co/NiPc is economically affordable, endowing the potential of large-scale applications.[31] Meanwhile, graphene based four-fold nitrogen coordinated single metal atoms (Gr-MG, MG = Ti/V/Cr/Mn/Fe/Co/Ni) are widely investigated in ORR.[1,3,32,33] Thus, the Gr-MG-O-MPPc (MP = Fe/Co/Ni, MG = Ti/V/Cr/Mn/Fe/Co/Ni) is chosen to clarify the effect of out-of-plane polarization on O2 adsorption. As shown in Figure 1c, the curvature of the MP site associated with axial asymmetry is formed because of the following two aspects: 1) The Van der Waals interaction between the MPc molecule and graphene forces the bending of MPc molecule; 2) the length of axial -MG-O-MP- bridge bond is larger than the axial equilibrium distance (3.12 Å) between the MPc molecule and graphene (Figure S1–4, Supporting Information). Importantly, the axial coordination zone of -MG-O-MP- intrinsically endows axially asymmetric charge density distribution (Figure 1d). As a result, the curvature of MP site and the axial coordination zone plays a critical role in the axial asymmetry of charge distribution, leading to the bulge of out-of-plane polarization (Figure 1e).

Compared to the typical MPc plane, the axial asymmetric dipole induced by the out-of-plane polarization of Gr-MG-O-MPPc offers an additional dimension to interact with the dipole of O2 molecule, which greatly affect the O2 adsorption and activation process (**Figure 2**a).[20,21,23] For the formation energy of Gr-MG-O-MPPc, these specific values will undergo an order of Gr-MG-O-FePc *<* Gr-MG-O-CoPc *<* Gr-MG-O-NiPc, implying the superior **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2023, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202302467 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

stability for FePc-based systems. While for each Gr-MG-O-Fe/Co/NiPc group, the formation energy mainly increases with increasing of the MG metallicity (Figure S5, Supporting Information), illustrating that the structural stability of the designed systems shows strong dependence on the types of MG and MP. Meanwhile, the axial coordination of -MG-O-MP- bridge bond comes up with coupling interactions among the 3d orbit of MG, 2p orbit of O and 3d orbit of MP (donated as d-p-d coupling, Figure 2b; Figure S6–8, Supporting Information), favoring electron transfer during the electrochemical process. Compared to the density of states for graphene-loaded FePc, the energy levels (near fermi energy level) of Gr-V-O-FePc are more continuous (Figure S9, Supporting Information), implying the superior electroconductivity of Gr-V-O-FePc, thus facilitating feasible charge flow during electrocatalytic process. As two critical factors basically related to out-of-plane polarization, the polarization charge accumulation on the axial coordination zone and the curvature of MP site were investigated. Based on the Bader charge analysis, different amounts of charge accumulation ranging from 1.34 to 2.15 *e*<sup>+</sup> were realized, which mainly increase with the increasing of metallicity (or atomic radius) of MG for each Gr-MG-O-Fe/Co/NiPc group (Figure 2c; Table S1 and S2, Supporting Information). As demonstrated, the amount of charge accumulation on –MG–O–Fe– bond is larger than that on –MG–O–Co/Ni–. Since the curvature of MP site directly scales with the curving distance, this parameter is chosen to intuitively describe the variation of the curvature, where twenty-one different curving distances range from 0.37 to 0.94 Å were achieved (Figure 2d). The curving distance increases with the increasing of metallicity (or atomic radius) of MG for each Gr-MG-O-Fe/Co/NiPc and those of Gr-MG-O-FePc are larger than the corresponding Gr-MG-O-Co/NiPc values. These results imply that the out-of-plane polarization can be simply yet effectively regulated by locating specific MG and MP in the axial coordination zone. Meanwhile, in consideration of the coupling interaction between the out-of-plane polarization dipole and the O2 molecule dipole, we can be reasonably speculated that the O2 adsorption can be feasibly adjusted by the axial coordination modification of Gr-MG-O-MPPc.

As expected, twenty-one different O2 adsorption energies ranging from 0.02 to 1.26 eV are achieved on catalysts of Gr-MG-O-MPPc (MP = Fe/Co/Ni, MG = Ti/V/Cr/Mn/Fe/Co/Ni) (Figure 2e). Specifically, seven distinct O2 adsorption energies ranging from 0.34 to 1.26 eV are available on the group of Gr-MG-O-FePc (Figure S10, Supporting Information), and the O2 adsorption energy near-linearly increases with the increasing of the amount of charge accumulation on -MG-O-Fe- zone. The group of Gr-MG-O-CoPc exhibits the similar behavior with the O2 adsorption energies ranging from 0.31 to 0.81 eV. It should be noted that the scope of O2 adsorption energies for Gr-MG-O-NiPc group was relatively narrow (from 0.02 to 0.20 eV), which maybe possibly result from the insufficient *d-p-d* coupling (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The O2 adsorption energy on Gr-MG-O-FePc is higher than that on Gr-MG-O-Co/NiPc with the maximum value of 1.26 eV for Gr-V-O-FePc. Compared to the fact that only three O2 adsorption energies of 0.77 (FePc), 0.55 (CoPc), and 0.12 eV (NiPc) can be generally used for ORR, the achievement of a total twenty-one different adsorption energies ranging from 0.02 to 1.26 eV indicates a substantially broadened tunability of the O2 adsorption and activation ability for the axial coordination of Gr-MG-O-MPPc.

Based on the theoretical calculations, we chose a series of Gr-V-O-MPPc to evaluate their ORR performance in experiment. This set were selected for two following reasons: 1) the calculated results found that the catalysts of Gr-V-O- MPPc (especially the Gr-V-O-FePc) exhibit the most feasible O2 adsorption and activation for the ORR; 2) the high oxophilicity of single vanadium atom site (V atom coordinated by four N atom on graphene) facilitates the naturally formation of axial V–O bond during the preparation process,[34,35] which is conducive to the experimental synthesis of Gr-V-O-MPPc. Specifically, the series of Gr-V-O-MPPc samples were prepared through a two-step dispersion strategy (**Figure 3**a). The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of Gr-V-O-FePc shows the traditional morphology of graphene nanosheets with ripples on the surface, which is consistent with Gr-V and other contract samples (Figure S11–15, Supporting Information). Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) implies that there are no obvious metal nanoparticles in Gr-V-O-FePc (Figure S11b, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the HAADF-STEM image with the sub-angstrom resolution was employed to investigate the atomic dispersion of metal atoms. As shown in Figure S16, Supporting Information, the HAADF-STEM image of Gr-V exhibits a uniform dispersion of V atoms in the graphene framework without obvious V nanoparticles, indicating the successful synthesis of the Gr-V substrate. As expected, numerous bright spots are also observed after loading FePc on Gr-V substrate, implying the uniformly distributed V and Fe atoms (Figure 3b). Notably, the magnified HAADF-STEM image of Gr-V-O-FePc (Figure 3c) clearly shows paired bright spots nearby isolated bright spots, which can be attributed to the dual atom pairs. The distance between the V and Fe atomic pairs is ≈2.2 to 2.8 Å, which is consistent with the theoretically simulated model (Figure 3d).[36,37] Meanwhile, the fine dispersion of single atoms can also be observed in Gr-V-O-CoPc, Gr-V-O-NiPc, and Gr-FePc (Figure S17–19, Supporting Information). The elemental mapping of the series samples confirms the homogenous distribution of O, V, and Fe atoms throughout the N-doped graphene support (Figure 3e). Additionally, the uniform distribution of V, Ni, and Co was also observed in other control samples (Figure S20–23, Supporting Information). Besides, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns demonstrate that the main component of the samples is carbon, and no obvious metal signals could be observed (Figure S24, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) confirmed that the total metal loading is ≈3 wt.%, and the V and incorporated metal loading ratio is nearly the same (Table S3, Supporting Information). Hence, the above structure and morphology analysis demonstrate that the MPc molecules were successfully anchored on the Gr-V substrate without aggregation.

The sample's chemical composition and valence states near the surface were first measured by soft-X-ray absorption near edge structure (s-XANES) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As shown in Figure S25 (Supporting Information), the pyridinic N content in Gr-V-O-MPPc is higher than that of Gr-V owing to the introducing of pyridinic N in phthalocyanine.[38] In addition, the pyridinic N can store electrons and facilitate the charge transfer during the reaction, thus optimizing the

**Figure 3.** Synthesis and morphology characterization. a) Illustration of the synthetic route of Gr-V-O-MPc catalysts. b) Atomic resolution HAADF-STEM image of Gr-V-O-FePc and c) magnified image of the selected frame area. Note: the dual atom pairs were marked in dashed circles. d) Line-scanning intensity profiles obtained from sites A and B are highlighted in c). e) Elemental mapping images and corresponding STEM images of C, N, O, V, and Fe.

adsorption energy of intermediates (\*O, \*OH, \*OO, and \*OOH).[39] The V 2p XPS spectra also exhibit a higher V5<sup>+</sup> states content after loading phthalocyanine, indicating the formation of axial coordination of -V-O-MP- (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Besides, the axial -V-O-Fe- bond can also be observed in Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) (Figure S27, Supporting Information).[40] Meanwhile, Fe, Co, and Ni are mainly composed of 2<sup>+</sup> valence states, highly consistent with the phthalocyanine molecules (Figure S28, Supporting Information). A typical C K-edge s-XANES spectrum containing two dominant peaks resulted in 1s to \* (258.7 eV) and \* (292.5 eV) transitions, respectively. The peaks between \* and \* bonds can be attributed to the C–H, C=O bond or structural defects.[41] As shown in Figure S29 (Supporting Information), the Gr-V and Gr-V-O-FePc exhibit similar C K-edge XANES spectra while differing distinctly from FePc. Besides, the Gr-V-O-FePc exhibits a lower peak intensity than that of Gr-V-O-NiPc and Gr-V-O-CoPc, indicating the strong interaction among Gr-V substrate and FePc molecules. The Gr-V-O-FePc shows a higher Fe *L3*-edge excitation than FePc and Gr-FePc, implying the more unoccupied states in Gr-V-O-FePc caused by the axial charge polarization (Figure S30, Supporting Information).[42] Therefore, the above XPS and s-XANES results clearly illustrate the strong interaction between

MPc molecules and Gr-V substrate through the axial coordination of -V-O-Fe/Co/Ni-.

The hard X-ray absorption spectroscopy, including XANES and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) of Fe and V *K*edge were collected to identify the geometric configuration of the absorbing center. As shown in **Figure 4**a, the V *K*-edge XANES spectra, corresponding to the 1s→3d/4p transition, show similar features with various relative intensities of these samples. The pre-peaks owing to the 1s→4pz shakedown transition further confirmed the comparable D4h symmetry for the V atoms with square-planer configuration.[43] In addition, the slightly enhanced white line peak (1s→3d transition) of Gr-V-O-FePc compared to Gr-V could be attributed to more unpaired 3d electrons, and strong interaction between Gr-V and FePc derived from the axial bonding. The Fourier transform EXAFS (FT-EXAFS) curves are also conducted in Figure 4b to expound the coordination environment. The dominant peak located at ≈1.5 Å (without phase correction) for Gr-V and Gr-V-O-FePc can be assigned to the first shell coordination of the V–N/O bond. It should be noted that no V–V bond (2.32 Å) is observed in Gr-V and Gr-V-O-FePc, which confirms the isolated feature of V species rather than aggregations. On the grounds of the fitting results of Gr-V and Gr-V-O-FePc, V species exhibit an average of four N neighbors

**Figure 4.** Precisely determination of the local structure for Gr-V-O-MPc. a,d) XANES spectra of V *K*-edge (a) and Fe *K*-edge (d) for Gr-V-O-FePc and reference samples. b,e) Fourier transformed *k*3-weighted V *K*-edge (b) and Fe *K*-edge (e) EXAFS signals of Gr-V-O-FePc along with reference samples in R space. c,f) FT-EXAFS fitting curves for V *K*-edge (c) and Fe *K*-edge (f), shown in R-space (Without phase correction, the inset exhibit the model of the V and Fe environment). g,h) Comparison between the experimental XANES spectra of V and Fe and the best-fit simulated spectra (the insets show the geometrical illustration of refined structure). i) The WT-EXAFS plots of V and Fe K-edge for Gr-V-O-FePc.

in the Gr-V substrate, while a five-fold configuration of four N atoms and one O atom is observed in Gr-V-O-FePc (Figure 4c; Figure S31 and Table S4, Supporting Information). Hence, the spatially coordinated V-N4O1 configuration could be concluded based on the EXAFS results (inset of Figure 4c), but the precise structure should be roundly analyzed by Fe XAFS analysis. As shown in Figure 4d, the absorption edge of Fe for Gr-V-O-FePc is close to FePc, indicating the similar divalent valence state of Fe. Despite the enhanced pre-peak (7114.1 eV) origin from the D4h symmetry, the new oscillations with different intensities raised near the white line peak of Gr-V-O-FePc, demonstrating the strong interaction between FePc and Gr-V substrate. Meantime, the Gr-V-O-FePc exhibits the dominant first-shell coordinated Fe–N/O bond in 1.47 Å (without phase correction), which is slightly shorter than the Fe–N bond in FePc (1.51 Å,

without phase correction) (Figure 4e). Similar to V *K*-edge FT-EXAFS spectra, the EXAFS fitting results demonstrated that the Gr-V-O-FePc possesses a non-planar geometrical five-fold Fe– N4O1 configuration (Figure 4f; Figure S32 and Table S5, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the wavelet-transformed EX-AFS (WT-EXAFS) plots were also performed to further analyze the local structures (Figure 4i; Figure S33, S34, Supporting Information).[44] There manifested a prominent maximum located at 11.7 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Gr-V-O-FePc compared to Gr-V, which may be caused by the bridge V-O-Fe scattering. Furthermore, the WT-EXAFS plot of Gr-V-O-FePc shows the maximum at ≈5.1 Å<sup>−</sup>1, corresponding to the Fe-N/O scattering, which is larger than Fe-O in Fe2O3 (≈4.9 Å<sup>−</sup>1) while smaller than that of Fe-N scattering in FePc (≈5.3 Å<sup>−</sup>1). In summary, the EXAFS analysis demonstrates that the axial coordination of V and Fe atoms exists in

**Figure 5.** Evaluation of the ORR performance in alkaline conditions. a) LSV curves recorded at 1600 rpm at O2-saturated electrolyte. b) Half-wave potential and kinetic current density at 0.88 V (vs RHE). c) Calculated Tafel slopes obtained from the LSV curves for different samples. d) LSV curves of Gr-V-O-FePc measured under different rotating speed from 400 rpm to 2025 rpm. e) Stability test after 2000 CV cycles and chronoamperometric measurement for 12 h. f) Methanol tolerance test for Gr-V-O-FePc as comparison to commercial 20% Pt/C.

Gr-V-O-FePc. As for Gr-V-O-NiPc and Gr-V-O-CoPc, a similar axial coordination phenomenon can also be observed from XAFS analysis (Figure S35–40, Table S6 and S7, Supporting Information).

Although the above EXAFS analysis have proved the coordination information of V and Fe atoms, the 3D arrangement of the V and Fe atoms still needs to be addressed.[45] For example, the five-fold coordination of V-N4O1 and Fe-N4O1 structure can be confirmed from EXAFS fitting, but the chemical bonding between Gr-V and FePc is still hard to confirm. As is known to all, the XANES spectrum is quite sensitive to the 3D geometrical configuration (crystal field, symmetry, and precise bonding), which can be used to uncover the precise structure as a complement to EXAFS fitting. Hence, we continued to investigate the intrinsic linkage between V and Fe site by comparing the experimental XANES spectra with theoretically simulated ones. The XANES spectrum performed on the Gr-V based moieties considering axial VN4-OH, VN4-N, and VN4-Fe ligands are differed from the experimental spectrum (Figure S41, Supporting Information). As expected, the simulated Gr-V-O-FePc model exhibits the nearest simulated XANES spectrum to that of experimental data with well-reproduced features of post-edge and white line peak (Figure 4g), further confirming the geometrical structure of V. Meanwhile, considering the possible configuration of Fe, the XANES spectra of Gr-FePc, Gr-O-FePc, FePc-O, FePc-OH, and FePc-N were calculated and compared with experimental spectra (Figure S42, Supporting Information). The different feature in the pre-edge and white line peak of Fe XANES for simulated and experimental spectra indicates the specific local configuration of Fe. As expected, the simulated XANES spectrum of Fe for Gr-V-O-FePc is highly consistent with the experimental data, demonstrating the predominant moiety of Fe atom in the optimized catalyst (Figure 4h). Therefore, the comprehensive XAFS analysis confirmed the successfully fabrication of Gr-V-O-FePc.

Subsequently, the ORR performance of the as-prepared samples was evaluated in alkaline conditions on a rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE). As shown in Figure S43 (Supporting Information), the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of Gr-V-O-FePc delivered a distinct oxygen reduction peak in the O2-saturated electrolyte while no pronounced reduction peak could be found in the N2-saturated electrolyte, indicating the superior oxygen reduction ability. In addition, the typical linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of suggested Gr-V-O-FePc at the rotating speed of 1600 rpm display an extraordinary ORR performance with an impressive onset potential (*E*onset) of 1.05 V (vs RHE) and half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.925 V (vs RHE) (**Figure 5**a). By comparing the LSV curves of the Gr-V, Gr-FePc and Gr-V-O-FePc at 1600 rpm, we can find that the axial coordination zone of -V-O-Fe- with strong out-of-plane charge polarization plays the key role in ORR process, in which the Fe atoms play the dominate role in adsorption of O2 while the V atoms contribute to the further conversion. In addition, the Gr-V-O-FePc exhibits an outstanding kinetic current density (*J*K) of 26.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the potential of 0.88 V (vs RHE), much higher than that of other control samples (Figure 5b). Moreover, the Gr-V-O-FePc displays the smaller Tafel slope of 63.37 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> than that of other samples, suggesting the fast reaction kinetics of ORR (Figure 5c).

**Figure 6.** Electrochemical test of the zinc-air battery (ZAB). a) Simple schematic diagram of the ZAB. b) Polarization curve and power density of the ZABs assembled by Gr-V-O-FePc and commercial 20% Pt/C. c) Galvanostatic discharge curves of the assembled ZAB. Note: the specific capacity is calculated based on the consumed mass of Zn at the current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. d) Galvanostatic discharge curves of the ZABs at different current densities from 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> to 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. e) Durability test of the ZABs for Gr-V-O-FePc at the current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

The LSV curves under various rotation speeds ranging from 400 to 2025 rpm were further collected to understand the ORR kinetics (Figure 5d; Figure S44, Supporting Information). Due to the shortened diffusion distance caused by the high rotating speed and the promoted mass transport near the electrode surface, the limited current density (*J*L) increased with the rotating speed. Besides, the corresponding Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots derived from the LSV curves, with good linearity and parallelism, of the as-prepared samples suggest the first-order reaction kinetics (Figure S45, Supporting Information). The electron transfer number (n) and peroxide (H2O2) generation rate measured by RRDE further confirmed the four-electron pathway toward ORR (Figure S46, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 5e, the Gr-V-O-FePc delivers a current retention of 94.56% after 12 h chronoamperometric (I-T) test while negligible degradation in *E*1/2 and 97% reserve of *J*<sup>L</sup> after 5 000 CVs, implying the favorable stability of Gr-V-O-FePc. In addition, the current density of Gr-V-O-FePc maintains an acceptable level after methanol injection, and an apparent attenuation can be found for 20% Pt/C, suggesting the outstanding methanol tolerance of Gr-V-O-FePc (Figure 5f). Taking the experimental analysis above, we can conclude that the axial coordination of V-O-Fe can effectively modulate the intrinsic performance of active sites and thereby facilitate the reaction kinetics of ORR, which allows us to study the realized application.

Here, motivated by the superior ORR performance of Gr-V-O-FePc, the ZAB was assembled to assess the practical utility using commercial 20% Pt/C as counterpart (**Figure 6**a; Figure S47, Supporting Information). The Gr-V-O-FePc exhibits a stable open voltage of 1.44 V toward alkaline ZAB with a twoelectrode configuration (Figure S48, Supporting Information). Besides, the ZAB assembled by Gr-V-O-FePc exhibits a remarkable peak power density of 167 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 276 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, outperforming the ZAB assembled by commercial 20% Pt/C (147 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 278 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure 6b). Besides, an impressive specific capacity of Gr-V-O-FePc of 804.6 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Zn can be obtained at the current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (energy density of 917.8 Wh kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Zn), exceeding commercial 20% Pt/C (743.5 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Zn and 804.3 Wh kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Zn) (Figure 6c). Hence, the above parameters of ZAB demonstrate that the Gr-V-O-FePc is a considerable candidate for the further application. Moreover, the galvanostatic discharging curve of Gr-V-O-FePc assembled ZAB at the current densities delivers higher voltages than that of ZAB composed of 20% Pt/C, indicating a more favorable discharging characteristic. Besides, when the current density returns to 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the discharge voltage resumed at 1.3 V, implying the good rate capacity and reversibility of ZAB owing to the superior activity and stability of Gr-V-O-FePc toward ORR (Figure 6d). Furthermore, no apparent attenuation could be observed after galvanostatic discharging at the current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 24 h, suggesting the ideal stability of ZAB with the Gr-V-O-FePc catalyst (Figure 6e). Therefore, the above results suggest that the well-designed Gr-V-O-FePc sample can exhibit an outstanding ORR performance, consistent with our theoretical prediction, thereby outlining a competitive material for the further development of ZABs.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2023, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202302467 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

#### **3. Conclusions**

We have highlighted a well-designed Gr-MG-O-MPPc catalysts that effectively manipulate out-of-plane polarization to promote O2 adsorption for catalyzing oxygen reduction. DFT calculations show that out-of-plane polarization charge can be regulated by varying MP and MG in the axial coordination of MG-O-MP, which linearly functions with the O2 adsorption energy, as well as a total of twenty-one different adsorption energies ranging from 0.02 eV to 1.26 eV were achieved. Standing out with the highest O2 adsorption energy for ORR, the candidate catalyst of Gr-V-O-FePc was successfully synthesized for ORR. The Gr-V-O-Fe axial coordination was identified by sufficiently complete analyses of EX-AFS and XANES as well as imaging by HAADF-STEM. It exhibits superior ORR performance than that of other moieties, and the power density and specific capacity of ZAB based on Gr-V-O-FePc exceed commercial Pt/C. This work not only paves the way for altering the adsorption energy via tailoring the out-of-plane polarization charge, but also speeds up the atomic-level manipulation and micro-structure characterization of axial coordination strategy for new catalyst.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

X.L., X.W., and Y.Z. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2018YFA0208603, 2022YFA1403203, 2018YFA0305602), CAS Project for Young Sclients in Basic Research (YSBR-005), National Natural Science Foundation of China (21803063, 12074002, 22003060, 22025304, 22033007), Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship (101031846), the Recruitment Program for Leading Talent Team of Anhui Province, Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Province (2208085QB30), Distinguished Junior Fellowship at the South Bay Interdisciplinary Science Center of Songshan Lake Materials Laboratory. The authors thank the Shanghai synchrotron radiation facility (BL14W1 and BL14B1, SSRF), the Beijing synchrotron radiation facility (BL1W1B, BL4W1B, and BL4B9A, BSRF), and National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory (Infrared spectroscopy and microspectroscopy, MCD endstation, NSRL) for help in experiments. DFT calculations were performed on Hefei advanced computing center and Supercomputing Center of University of Science and Technology of China.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

axial coordination modification, catalysts, metal phthalocyanine, O2 adsorption energy, oxygen reduction reaction

Received: March 16, 2023 Revised: April 10, 2023 Published online: June 5, 2023

- [1] S. W. Liu, C. Z. Li, M. J. Zachman, Y. C. Zeng, H. R. Yu, B. Y. Li, M. Y. Wang, J. Braaten, J. W. Liu, H. M. Meyer, M. Lucero, A. J. Kropf, E. E. Alp, Q. Gong, Q. R. Shi, Z. X. Feng, H. Xu, G. F. Wang, D. J. Myers, J. Xie, D. A. Cullen, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 652.
- [2] K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. M. Bao, B. A. Xie, B. W. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. H. Fan, H. Z. Wang, Z. J. Hou, S. Huo, N. P. Brandon, Y. Yin, M. D. Guiver, *Nature* **2021**, *595*, 361.
- [3] X. X. Wang, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 578.
- [4] J. T. Fan, M. Chen, Z. L. Zhao, Z. Zhang, S. Y. Ye, S. Y. Xu, H. J. Wang, H. Li, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 475.
- [5] Y. P. Deng, Y. Jiang, R. L. Liang, S. J. Zhang, D. Luo, Y. F. Hu, X. Wang, J. T. Li, A. P. Yu, Z. W. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1952.
- [6] D. H. Guo, R. Shibuya, C. Akiba, S. Saji, T. Kondo, J. Nakamura, *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361.
- [7] M. L. Pegis, C. F. Wise, D. J. Martin, J. M. Mayer, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2340.
- [8] W. Li, A. Yu, D. C. Higgins, B. G. Llanos, Z. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 17056.
- [9] J. Z. Li, M. J. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Y. Wang, B. Y. Li, K. X. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. G. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. X. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. F. Wang, Z. B. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935.
- [10] Y. Cheng, S. He, S. F. Lu, J. P. Veder, B. Johannessen, L. Thomsen, M. Saunders, T. Becker, R. De Marco, Q. F. Li, S. Z. Yang, S. P. Jiang, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6*, 1802066.
- [11] K.-M. Zhao, S. Liu, Y.-Y. Li, X. Wei, G. Ye, W. Zhu, Y. Su, J. Wang, H. Liu, Z. He, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103588.
- [12] L. Peng, J. Yang, Y. Yang, F. Qian, Q. Wang, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202544.
- [13] X. Wang, J. Wang, P. Wang, L. Li, X. Zhang, D. Sun, Y. Li, Y. Tang, Y. Wang, G. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2206540.
- [14] B. Ji, J. Gou, Y. Zheng, X. Zhou, P. Kidkhunthod, Y. Wang, Q. Tang, Y. Tang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202714.
- [15] H. X. Zhong, K. H. Ly, M. C. Wang, Y. Krupskaya, X. C. Han, J. C. Zhang, J. Zhang, V. Kataev, B. Buchner, I. M. Weidinger, S. Kaskel, P. Liu, M. W. Chen, R. H. Dong, X. L. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10677.
- [16] M. Viera, J. Riquelme, C. Aliaga, J. F. Marco, W. Orellana, J. H. Zagal, F. Tasca, *Front Chem* **2020**, *8*, 22.
- [17] R. Cao, R. Thapa, H. Kim, X. Xu, M. G. Kim, Q. Li, N. Park, M. L. Liu, J. Cho, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2076.
- [18] Y. H. Han, Y. G. Wang, R. R. Xu, W. X. Chen, L. R. Zheng, A. J. Han, Y. Q. Zhu, J. Zhang, H. B. Zhang, J. Luo, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2348.
- [19] K. J. Chen, K. Liu, P. D. An, H. J. W. Li, Y. Y. Lin, J. H. Hu, C. K. Jia, J. W. Fu, H. M. Li, H. Liu, Z. Lin, W. Z. Li, J. H. Li, Y. R. Lu, T. S. Chan, N. Zhang, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4173.
- [20] X. J. Wang, S. Ye, W. Hu, E. Sharman, R. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. Luo, J. Jiang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 7737.
- [21] C. Y. Jia, X. J. Wang, W. H. Zhong, Z. Z. Wang, O. V. Prezhdo, Y. Luo, J. Jiang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 9629.
- [22] P. Gorai, E. G. Seebauer, E. Ertekin, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2016**, *144*, 184708.
- [23] L. Qi, X. Qian, J. Li, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2008**, *101*, 146101.
- [24] D. B. Li, X. Y. Li, S. M. Chen, H. Yang, C. D. Wang, C. Q. Wu, Y. A. Haleem, S. Duan, J. L. Lu, B. H. Ge, P. M. Ajayan, Y. Luo, J. Jiang, L. Song, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 512.
- [25] Y. Y. Jiang, Y. Z. Lu, X. Y. Lv, D. X. Han, Q. X. Zhang, L. Niu, W. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2013**, *3*, 1263.

#### **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

- [26] W. J. Ding, J. B. Zhu, Z. Wang, Y. F. Gao, D. Xiao, Y. Gu, Z. Y. Zhang, W. G. Zhu, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14956.
- [27] F. Franco, C. Rettenmaier, H. S. Jeon, B. R. Cuenya, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 6884.
- [28] X. Xie, L. Shang, X. Xiong, R. Shi, T. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2102688.
- [29] Q. Miao, S. Yang, Q. Xu, M. Liu, P. Wu, G. Liu, C. Yu, Z. Jiang, Y. Sun, G. Zeng, *Small Struct.* **2022**, *3*, 2100225.
- [30] Q. Wang, L. Shang, D. Sun-Waterhouse, T. Zhang, G. Waterhouse, *SmartMat* **2021**, *2*, 154.
- [31] S. X. Yang, Y. H. Yu, X. J. Gao, Z. P. Zhang, F. Wang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 12985.
- [32] Y. H. He, S. W. Liu, C. Priest, Q. R. Shi, G. Wu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 3484.
- [33] A. Kumar, V. K. Vashistha, D. K. Das, S. Ibraheem, G. Yasin, R. Iqbal, T. A. Nguyen, K. R. Gupta, R. Islam, *Fuel* **2021**, *304*, 121420.
- [34] Y. F. Zhao, P. V. Kumar, X. Tan, X. X. Lu, X. F. Zhu, J. J. Jiang, J. Pan, S. B. Xi, H. Y. Yang, Z. P. Ma, T. Wan, D. W. Chu, W. J. Jiang, S. C. Smith, R. Amal, Z. J. Han, X. Y. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2430.
- [35] S. Zhang, Y. Li, S. Sun, L. Liu, X. Mu, S. Liu, M. Jiao, X. Chen, K. Chen, H. Ma, T. Li, X. Liu, H. Wang, J. Zhang, J. Yang, X. D. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4744.
- [36] J. D. Yi, X. P. Gao, H. Zhou, W. Chen, Y. E. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202212329.

- [37] Y. Yang, Y. M. Qian, H. J. Li, Z. H. Zhang, Y. W. Mu, D. Do, B. Zhou, J. Dong, W. J. Yan, Y. Qin, L. Fang, R. F. Feng, J. G. Zhou, P. Zhang, J. C. Dong, G. H. Yu, Y. Y. Liu, X. M. Zhang, X. J. Fan, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, 6586.
- [38] X. F. Wu, J. W. Sun, P. F. Liu, J. Y. Zhao, Y. W. Liu, L. S. Guo, S. Dai, H. G. Yang, H. J. Zhao, *Adv. Func. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107301.
- [39] X. R. Wang, J. Y. Liu, Z. W. Liu, W. C. Wang, J. Luo, X. P. Han, X. W. Du, S. Z. Qiao, J. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800005.
- [40] A. ŠurcaVuk, B. Orel, G. Dražiˇc, *J. Solid State Electr* **2001**, *5*, 437.
- [41] K. Feng, J. Zhong, B. Zhao, H. Zhang, L. Xu, X. Sun, S.-T. Lee, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 11950.
- [42] L. Wang, P. Adiga, J. L. Zhao, W. S. Samarakoon, K. A. Stoerzinger, S. R. Spurgeon, B. E. Matthews, M. E. Bowden, P. V. Sushko, T. C. Kaspar, G. E. Sterbinsky, S. M. Heald, H. Wang, L. W. Wangoh, J. P. Wu, E. J. Guo, H. J. Qian, J. O. Wang, T. Varga, S. Thevuthasan, Z. X. Feng, W. L. Yang, Y. G. Du, S. A. Chambers, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 8324.
- [43] B. L. Geoghegan, Y. Liu, S. Peredkov, S. Dechert, F. Meyer, S. DeBeer, G. E. Cutsail, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2520.
- [44] H. Funke, M. Chukalina, A. C. Scheinost, *J. Synchrotron Radiat.* **2007**, *14*, 426.
- [45] H. L. Fei, J. C. Dong, Y. X. Feng, C. S. Allen, C. Z. Wan, B. Volosskiy, M. F. Li, Z. P. Zhao, Y. L. Wang, H. T. Sun, P. F. An, W. X. Chen, Z. Y. Guo, C. Lee, D. L. Chen, I. Shakir, M. J. Liu, T. D. Hu, Y. D. Li, A. I. Kirkland, X. F. Duan, Y. Huang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 63.