---
source: Li 等 - 2022 - Alloying Co Species into Ordered and Interconnected Macroporous Carbon Polyhedra for Efficient Oxyge.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 79.601s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:15:42.810399Z
---

# **Alloying Co Species into Ordered and Interconnected Macroporous Carbon Polyhedra for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Rechargeable Zinc–Air Batteries**

*Wei Li, Bo Liu, Da Liu, Peifang Guo, Jing Liu, Ruirui Wang, Yanhui Guo, Xin Tu, Hongge Pan,\* Dalin Sun,\* Fang Fang, and Renbing Wu\**

**Engineering non-precious transition metal (TM)-based electrocatalysts to simultaneously achieve an optimal intrinsic activity, high density of active sites, and rapid mass transfer ability for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) remains a significant challenge. To address this challenge, a hybrid composite consisting of Fe***x***Co alloy nanoparticles uniformly implanted into hierarchically ordered macro-/meso-/microporous N-doped carbon polyhedra (HOMNCP) is rationally designed. The combined results of experimental and theoretical investigations indicate that the alloying of Co enables a favorable electronic structure for the formation of the \*OH intermediate, while the periodically trimodal-porous structured carbon matrix structure not only provides highly accessible channels for active site utilization but also dramatically facilitates mass transfer in the catalytic process. As expected, the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP composite catalyst exhibits extraordinary ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.903 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode), surpassing most Co-based catalysts reported to date. More remarkably, the use of the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP catalyst as the air electrode in a zinc–air battery results in superior open-circuit voltage and power density compared to a commercial Pt/C + IrO2 catalyst. The results of this study are expected to inspire the development of advanced TMbased catalysts for energy storage and conversion applications.**

**1. Introduction**

The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is a crucial electrochemical process that occurs in rechargeable metal–air batteries, fuel cells, and other energy conversion and storage devices.[1–5] However, the sluggish kinetics of the ORR, which involves four electron and proton transfer steps, seriously restricts the overall energy conversion efficiency of these devices. Currently, noble Pt-based materials are regarded as state-of-the-art electrocatalysts for the sluggish ORR.[6–9] Unfortunately, the scarcity, high cost, and poor stability hamper their commercial application. Tremendous effort has accordingly been devoted to exploring highly efficient and low-cost alternatives to Pt-based electrocatalysts. Among the various candidates, earth-abundant transition metal (TM)-based species embedded within nitrogen-doped carbonaceous support to form hybrid composites (TM@N-C) have received increasing attention owing to their unique electronic structure and synergistic effect.

To rationally design TM@N-C electrocatalysts for the ORR, modulating the electronic structure or optimizing the geometric structure have been adopted to boost the catalytic process. The former strategy mainly involves heteroatom doping or alloying TM species to reduce the kinetic energy barriers and thus

improve intrinsic activity while the latter strategy concentrates on the construction of the desired morphology and pore structure of the electrocatalyst to increase the accessible surface areas, ensure rapid mass transport to all accessible active sites, and provide structural protection. For example, Fu et al. synthesized an electrocatalyst consisting of NiCo alloy nanoparticles anchored on porous fibrous carbon (PFC) aerogels via

W. Li, D. Liu, P. Guo, J. Liu, R. Wang, Y. Guo, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu Department of Materials Science Fudan University Shanghai 200433, P. R. China E-mail: dlsun@fudan.edu.cn; rbwu@fudan.edu.cn B. Liu College of Mechanical and Vehicle Engineering Hunan University Changsha, Hunan 410082, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202109605.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202109605** Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China

X. Tu Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics University of Liverpool Liverpool L69 3GJ, UK H. Pan Institute of Science and Technology for New Energy

Xi'an Technological University Xi'an 710021, P. R. China

E-mail: honggepan@zju.edu.cn H. Pan

State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering Zhejiang University

a hydrogel-derived process and found that it exhibited higher ORR activity than Co/PFC or Ni/PFC.[10] Su et al. investigated the synergistic effect of Fe and Co in TM@N-C catalysts, demonstrating that alloying generates a favorable electronic environment on the surface of the material and thus improves its ORR activity.[11] Douka et al. reported a synthesis of ordered macroporous carbon-supported Co nanoparticles via a pyrolysis of silica-templated zeolitic imidazolate framework-67 (ZIF-67), exhibiting a better ORR activity in terms of half-wave potential and limiting current density than microporous carbon-loaded Co obtained by directly annealing ZIF-67.[12] Compared with disordered microporous carbon, ordered macroporous carbon not only provides a lower resistance path for mass and electron charge transport but also is more conducive to the uniformity of the catalytic reaction and operational stability. Zhang et al. implanted FeN4 sites into hierarchically ordered micro/ meso/macroporous nitrogen-doped carbon via a pyrolysis of ferrocene-encapsulated ZIF-8, which could achieve a half-wave potential of 0.875 V for the ORR in an alkaline medium.[13]

Despite the significant progress that has been made, most reports on TM@N-C catalysts concentrated on only one of the two above-mentioned approaches, and thus their ORR catalytic performance remains unsatisfactory. Therefore, to maximize the catalytic activity of the TM@N-C electrocatalyst, developing an efficient synthetic strategy that combines electronic modulation via alloying with geometric construction through pore engineering is highly desired but remaining a significant challenge. In this study, we have developed a controllable ZIF-67 driven strategy to synthesize highly dispersed Fe*x*Co alloy nanoparticles implanted within hierarchically ordered macro/meso/ microporous N-doped carbon polyhedra (Fe*x*Co@HOMNCP) catalysts. This approach involves the preparation of singlecrystalline ordered macro/microporous ZIF-67 assemblies, followed by a thermal pyrolysis-ion adsorption-thermal reduction process. Fe was chosen to form FeCo alloy nanoparticles, which may combine the high activity of Fe-based catalyst with the good stability of Co-based catalyst.[14] Specifically, the appropriate introduction of Fe to form the FeCo alloy was expected to change the d-band center of the Co and optimize the adsorption energy of oxygen intermediates, while the HOMNCP support was expected to facilitate the access of active sites and enhance the mass/charge transfer. As a demonstrated example, the assynthesized Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP electrocatalyst exhibits an extraordinary ORR activity with a positive half-wave potential of 0.903 V, which not only outperforms most previously reported Co-based catalysts but also is superior to that of state-of-the-art commercial Pt/C catalysts. Especially, Fe0.5Co@HOMNCPassembled zinc–air batteries can deliver a higher open-circuit voltage (1.619 V) and power density than Pt/C + IrO2-assembled zinc–air batteries.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

**Figure 1**a shows a schematic illustration for the preparation procedure of Fe*x*Co@HOMNCP electrocatalyst. First, the solution of ZIF-67 precursor was added into polystyrene sphere (PS) template voids, then the mixed solution containing ammonia and methanol was introduced for the crystallization of ZIF-67@

PS. Subsequently, the PS templates were removed using dimethylformamide to form 3D ordered macro/meso/microporous (3DOM) ZIF-67 single crystals, followed by pyrolysis in N2 atmosphere to obtain cobalt nanoparticles implanted within hierarchically ordered macro/meso/microporous N-doped carbon polyhedra (Co@HOMNCP). Finally, the resulting Co@ HOMNCPs employed as a scaffold to adsorb Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions were subjected to thermal reduction, resulting in ordered macroporous carbon polyhedra anchored with highly dispersed FeCo alloy nanoparticles.

Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) was used to observe the morphologies of the as-synthesized PS template and the ordered macro/meso/microporous ZIF-67 single crystals. As shown in Figure 1b and Figure S1, Supporting Information, PS spheres with a diameter of ≈190 nm were monodispersed and stacked compactly. FESEM image in Figure 1c shows that the 3DOM ZIF-67 had a polyhedral morphology with a uniform size. The magnified FESEM image of 3DOM ZIF-67 in Figure 1d further reveals a welldefined macroporous structure with a macropore diameter of ≈175 nm, which is slightly smaller than that of the PS template. Additionally, these ordered macropores are interconnected by mesoporous channels and the walls between them are very thin, only ≈25 nm. The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis suggests that 3DOM ZIF-67 exhibits a similar diffraction pattern with the common ZIF-67 (Figure S2, Supporting Information). To comprehensively understand the morphology and structure of 3DOM ZIF-67, FESEM images of typical particles observed from different directions and the corresponding models are shown in Figure 1e–i. The exposed square and triangular planes of individual particles resulting from the preferred orientation of ZIF-67 growth inherited the {100} and {111} planes of the densely arranged PS template.

After the thermal pyrolysis–adsorption–thermal-reduction process, the as-synthesized 3DOM ZIF-67 was converted to Fe*x*Co@ HOMNCP. Note that the Fe/Co molar ratio can be easily tuned by changing the quantity of added Fe ions, and Fe0.3Co@ HOMNCP, Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP, and Fe0.7Co@ HOMNCP were prepared accordingly. For comparison, Fe0.5Co nanoparticles embedded within nitrogen-doped carbon polyhedra (Fe0.5Co@NCP) through a similar process except using ZIF-67 as precursor were also prepared. Taking Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP as a representative, the morphology, structure, and phase were investigated by FESEM, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and XRD. As shown in **Figure 2**a–c, the obtained Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP preserved well the polyhedral morphology of 3DOM ZIF-67 with a highly ordered macroporous arrangement. The diameters of the macropores were ≈148 nm, showing slight shrinkage after pyrolysis compared with that of 3DOM ZIF-67. Note that the introduction of Fe element has no influence on the morphology and ordered porous structure of the Co@HOMNCP (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The highly ordered and interconnected macroporous skeleton was further verified by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP (Figure 2d,e). The magnified TEM image (Figure 2f) clearly shows the homogenous distribution of FeCo nanoparticles with an average size of ≈15 nm embedded within the ordered macroporous skeleton support. HRTEM image demonstrates

www.advmat.de

5214095, 2022, 17, Downloaded from https://advanced.on/inelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/atma. 202109605 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for less of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons of the Commons of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common of the Common

Figure 1. a) Schematically illustration of synthetic process of Fe<sub>x</sub>Co@HOMNCP. b) FESEM image of PS template. c) FESEM image of 3DOM ZIF-67. d) Magnified FESEM image showing the surface and the internal structure of 3DOM ZIF-67. e—h) Magnified FESEM images of a 3DOM ZIF-67 particle taken from different directions. i) Models of 3DOM ZIF-67 viewed from different directions.

the domains of the alloy nanoparticles and carbon support, in which the looming lattice fringe of the graphitic carbon layer and distinct lattice fringes with a d-spacing of 0.203 nm corresponding to the {110} faceted metallic FeCo alloy can be clearly observed (Figure 2g). The selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern displays multiple diffraction circles, suggesting polycrystalline features of the FeCo alloy nanoparticles (Figure 2h). The high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) and corresponding element mapping images also confirm the coexistence and uniform dispersion of Fe, Co, N, and C elements across the ordered macroporous skeleton (Figure 2i).

The phases and crystalline structures of the Fe<sub>x</sub>Co@ HOMNCP composites were further characterized by XRD. As shown in **Figure 3**a, in addition to the peak at 26.5° for graphitic carbon, the peaks at 44.9° and 65.2° can be indexed to the (110) and (200) lattice planes of the FeCo alloy (JCPDS No. 49-1568). With the increase of Fe content, the peak intensity of Fe<sub>x</sub>Co alloy at 44.9° increases gradually, while the peak intensity of Co at 44.2° decreases. The porosity of the Fe<sub>x</sub>Co@HOMNCP composite was investigated through N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption experiments (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The increase in adsorption volume under relatively low pressure ( $P/P_0$  <0.05) and the hysteresis loop under relatively high pressure suggest the coexistence of microporous and mesoporous in the composites. The adsorption volume of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP was smaller than that of Co@HOMNCP under lower pressure,

possibly be due to the fact that the larger alloy particles would block some micropores. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP was estimated to be 209.7 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, also lower than that of Co@HOMNCP. Nevertheless, the BET surface area of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP is much larger than that of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@NCP (133.3 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting the advantage of HMONCP. The pore size distribution results also verify the hierarchical macro/meso/micropores of the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@ HOMNCP (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Notably, such an appropriate BET surface area would be conducive to the exposure of active sites, while ordered macropores and mesopores are believed to provide accessible channels for the release of oxygen molecules to the active sites, thus promoting mass transfer.[15,16] The wettability of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP and Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@NCP were studied using contact angle measurements. As shown in Figure S6, Supporting Information, the contact angle of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP was less than 10° and the water droplets spread completely on the surface, indicating its superhydrophilic property. In comparison, the contact angle of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@NCP was slightly higher. The excellent wettability of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP is also benefit to the penetration of the electrolyte into the catalyst, thereby improving the utilization of active sites.

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to study the elemental composition and chemical state of the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP composite. The XPS survey spectrum confirmed the presence of Co, Fe, C, N, and O elements on

**Figure 2.** a–c) Representative FESEM images of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP at different magnifications. d–f) TEM images of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP at different magnifications. The inset in (f) shows the particle size distribution histogram of about 100 particles analyzed from (f). g) HRTEM image of Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP. h) Corresponding SAED pattern of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP. i) HAADF-STEM image and corresponding elemental mapping images.

the surface of the composite (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The high-resolution Co 2p spectrum exhibited peaks centered at binding energies of 778.5 and 780.7 eV, which can be attributed to Co0 and Co2+/3+, respectively (Figure 3c).[17] Compared with that of Co@HOMNCP, the Co0 peak of Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP shows a slightly positive shift (0.1 eV), suggesting electron transfer between Fe and Co.[18] In addition, the intensity of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP is significantly reduced, which is probably due to the donation of electrons from Fe to Co to form electron-rich Co. The high-resolution Fe 2p spectrum shows the presence of metallic (707.7 and 719.7 eV) and ionic (711.1 and 725 eV) forms of Fe, while the peak centered at 714 and 735 eV can be attributed to the shakeup satellite peak (Figure 3d).[19–21]

The high-resolution N 1s spectrum can be deconvoluted into four peaks, corresponding to pyridinic-N (398.8 eV), metallic-N (399.4 eV), pyrrolic-N (400.5 eV), and graphitic-N (401.3 eV), among of which the graphitic-N and pyridinic-N may be favorable to facilitating the ORR process (Figure 3e).[22,23] The C 1s spectrum shows the existence of OCO group (288.2 eV), CO bonds (286.2 eV), CN bonds (285.5 eV), and sp2-hybridized carbon (284.6 eV) (Figure 3f).[24,25]

The mass content of Fe0.5Co in the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP composite was determined by thermogravimetric analysis and calculated to be ≈34.24% (Figure 3b; Figure S8, Supporting Information), which was also close to the inductively coupled plasma–atomic emission spectroscopy results (39.4%,

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2022, 17, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atanta.202109605 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Com

Figure 3. a) XRD patterns of Fe<sub>x</sub>Co@HOMNCP and Co@HOMNCP composites. b) TGA curve of the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP. c–f) High-resolution Co 2p (c), Fe 2p (d), N 1s (e), and C 1s (f) XPS spectrum of the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP composite.

Table S2, Supporting Information). The bonding structure of the carbon was studied using Raman spectroscopy. As shown in Figure S9, Supporting Information, two dominant peaks located at 1350 and 1590 cm $^{-1}$  were observed, which are associated with the disordered carbon (D-band) frames on the defect sites and the hexagonally bonded carbon atoms in the graphitic networks (G-band), respectively. The lower intensity ratio of  $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$  for Fe $_{0.5}$ Co@HOMNCP than that for Co@HOMNCP suggests its higher graphitization degree with better electrical conductivity.  $^{[28-30]}$ 

The electrocatalytic activities of the as-synthesized ORR catalysts were assessed by rotating disk electrode (RDE) in an oxygen-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution and compared with those of 20% commercial Pt/C catalyst. As shown in the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves in Figure 4a and Figure S10, Supporting Information, the HOMNCP exhibited a poor ORR activity with a half-wave potential ( $E_{half-wave}$ ) of 0.728 V, whereas the Co@HOMNCP exhibited better ORR activity with a halfwave potential of 0.79 V. When alloying Co to form Fe<sub>x</sub>Co and employing a 3D periodically trimodal-porous carbon support, the ORR activity of the catalyst is significantly enhanced. Among the as-synthesized samples, Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP exhibited the best ORR activity with a  $E_{half-wave}$  of 0.903 V, which is better than those of Fe<sub>0.3</sub>Co@HOMNCP ( $E_{half-wave} = 0.833 \text{ V}$ ),  $Fe_{0.7}Co@HOMNCP$  ( $E_{half-wave} = 0.845$  V),  $Fe_{0.5}Co@NCP$  ( $E_{half-wave}$ wave = 0.825 V), and most recently reported catalysts (Figure 4b; Table S3, Supporting Information), and even state-of-the-art Pt/C ( $E_{half-wave} = 0.878$  V). To examine the electron transfer kinetics during the ORR process, rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) measurements of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP were also performed at various rotating rates (Figure 4c). The polarization

curves for the ORR on the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP catalyst show that the current densities increased with the increase of rotating rate. The Koutecky-Levich graph of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP exhibited an approximate linear relationship between  $\omega^{-1/2}$  and  $j^{-1}$ (Figure 4c inset). In the range of 0.3 to 0.65 V, the average electron transfer number n for  $Fe_0$  Co@HOMNCP was calculated to be about 3.81, indicating a four-electron transfer mechanism. The ORR Tafel slopes of all samples were derived from the LSV curves to evaluate the catalytic kinetic properties and are shown in Figure 4d. Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP exhibited the smallest Tafel plot slope (82 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) among all evaluated samples, including the benchmark Pt/C catalyst, suggesting the fastest ORR kinetic process. In addition, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield during ORR was further studied by RRDE measurements. As shown in Figure 4e, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield on Fe<sub>x</sub>Co@HOMNCP in the potential ranging from 0.2 to 0.8 V was below 5%, demonstrating a high selectivity toward the 4e- transfer pathway. Notably, the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP catalyst showed the highest electron transfer number and the lowest H2O2 yield, indicating the highest catalytic selectivity among the investigated samples. The double-layer capacitance ( $C_{d1}$ ) that is proportional to the electrochemical surface area was also measured. As shown in Figure 4f and Figure S11, Supporting Information, the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP catalyst exhibited the largest  $C_{\rm dl}$ value of 53.2 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, indicating highly accessible active sites. The excellent catalytic activity of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP can be ascribed to the synergetic effect of the highly efficient utilization of active sites together with effective mass transfer through the HOMNCP structure. To further elucidate the ORR activity of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy measurements of the catalysts were performed. As shown

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2022, 17, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/atanta.202109605 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Com

Figure 4. a) LSV curves of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$ ,  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$ ,  $Fe_{0.7}Co@HOMNCP$ ,  $Fe_{0.5}Co@NCP$ , and commercial Pt/C for ORR in 0.1 M KOH. b) Comparison of  $E_{half-wave}$  of the abovementioned electrocatalysts. c) LSV curves of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$  at different rotation speeds from 400 to 3600 rpm; the inset in (c) shows the Koutecký–Levich plots of  $J^{-1}$  versus  $\omega^{-1/2}$  at different electrode potentials from 0.3 to 0.65 V. d) ORR Tafel slopes obtained from the LSV curves at 1600 rpm. e) Peroxide yields and electron transfer number derived from the RRDE voltammograms. f) Calculated  $C_{dl}$  values. g) Polarization curves of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$  before and after 5000 cycles. h) Long-term stability test. i) Tolerance of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$  and 20 wt% Pt/C to methanol poisoning.

in Figure S12, Supporting Information, the Nyquist plots of the FeCo@HOMNCP and Pt/C catalysts consist of a semicircle for electron transfer resistance and a straight line for ion diffusion resistance. Compared to Co@HOMNCP and FeCo@NCP, the FeCo@HOMNCP catalysts show larger slopes of the straight line, suggesting a faster ion diffusion rate. In addition, the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP catalyst exhibited the smallest semicircle diameter among all FeCo@HOMNCP catalysts, demonstrating a reduced resistance of electron transport (Table S1, Supporting Information).

The stability of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$  was evaluated by voltammetric and chronoamperometric tests (Figure 4g,h). The characteristic of the measured voltammogram over 5000 cycles was almost unchanged, indicating the excellent cycling stability of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$ . For the chronoamperometric tests over a period of 10 h,  $\approx$ 96.4% of the original current could be maintained for  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$ , while the current for commercial Pt/C dramatically decreased to 67.4% of the original value. FESEM and TEM images of  $Fe_{0.5}Co@HOMNCP$  after

long-term durability tests suggested that its ordered porous structure was maintained (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the phase structure of cycled Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP was basically retained (Figures S14,S15, Supporting Information). Note that only a slight element leaching occurred after ORR cycling test (Table S4, Supporting Information), further indicating a good stability of catalyst. Additionally, after adding 3 м methanol to a 0.1 м KOH electrolyte, the commercial Pt/C showed a significant current drop. In contrast, only a temporary oscillation was observed for the Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP catalyst, indicating good methanol tolerance (Figure 4i). The oscillation with instantaneous upward may be caused by the change of solubility of oxygen in the electrolyte when methanol was added to the solution. The above results further demonstrate that the combination of highly dispersed alloying nanoparticles and the hierarchically ordered porous structure not only enables high catalytic activity and selectivity but also ensures the good operational durability. In addition, the ORR performance of Fe<sub>0.5</sub>Co@HOMNCP catalyst in 0.5 м H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution was also

**Figure 5.** a) The ORR process of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP catalysts in alkaline solution. b) Free energy paths of ORR on Co@HOMNCP and Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP. c) PDOS of Co@HOMNCP and Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP. d) The charge density difference of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP.

evaluated. As shown in Figure S16, Supporting Information, Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP catalyst exhibited a relatively low *E*half-wave of 0.76 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in comparison to commercial Pt/C (0.81 V vs RHE). Nevertheless, the LSV curves before and after cycling in 0.5 m H2SO4 solution are almost coincident, indicating the good stability of Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP in acidic media.

To provide an insight into the origin of the outstanding ORR activity for the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP catalyst, we conducted density functional theory calculations for the ORR process of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP and Co@HOMNCP. The ORR process under alkaline condition is schematically depicted shown in **Figure 5**a. The adsorption energies of the ORR intermediates (i.e., \*OOH, \*O, and \*OH) were calculated and compared (Figure 5b). At a potential *U* = 0 V, all the electron-transfer steps have negative values, thus are thermodynamically favorable. At a potential *U* = 1.23 V, the largest uphill was the third electron transfer step (\*O + H<sup>+</sup> + e<sup>−</sup> → \*OH) for both the Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP and Co@HOMNCP catalysts, suggesting a ratedetermining step (RDS). The Δ*G* value of the RDS for Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP (0.31 eV) was lower than that for Co@HOMNCP (0.52 eV), indicating that alloying of Co to form FeCo would promote the rate-limiting sorption of \*OH, lower the reaction barrier, and facilitate the overall ORR process, which is in good agreement with the experimental results. Additionally, the projected densities of states (PDOS) results indicated that the d-band center for Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP was closer to the Fermi level than that for Co@HOMNCP, suggesting that the introduction of Fe may lead to a more delocalized electrondonating area, thus boosting the adsorption of intermediates (Figure 5c).[31–33] Furthermore, the electron density difference of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP was calculated (Figure 5d, where the yellow and cyan colors represent the regions with electron enrichment and electron depletion, respectively. The yellow area is more concentrated near the adjacent C/N atoms, indicating that the electrons were transferred from the metal atoms to the C/N atoms.[34] Compared with Co@HOMNCP, the electron concentration region of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP is more abundantly distributed on the surface of nitrogen-doped carbon (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Therefore, the charge density distribution shows a higher charge density around the surface of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP. The higher electron density would be favorable for the adsorption of oxygenated intermediate state,[35] leading to an improved ORR activity.

To support the claim that the ordered porous structure may facilitate mass/charge transfer, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to investigate the diffusion of O2 molecules and OH− ions confined in the porous electrode. A unit cell was constructed by digging a hole with a diameter of 24 Å at the center of an amorphous carbon cube with a side length of 40 Å (**Figure 6**a). Water droplet with a diameter of 21 Å and a density of ≈0.5 g cm−<sup>3</sup> was then inserted at the center of the hole. Subsequently, O2 molecules and OH<sup>−</sup> ions were dissolved in the water. The ordered porous structure was then modeled by periodically replicating the unit cell in the three directions by 3 × 3 × 4 times and the periodic boundary conditions were

**Figure 6.** a) Atomic structure of the unit cell for the construction of the ordered porous electrode. b) Schematic for building the ordered porous structure by periodically replicating the unit cell in the three directions. c) Schematic for building the disordered porous structure by shifting the second and fourth layers of the ordered structure along both the *x* and *y* directions (the gaps between the unit cells are only for illustration purpose and they are closed during practical MD simulations). d,e) The averaged MSD of the O atoms in the O2 molecules (d) and the OH<sup>−</sup> ions (e) for the modeled ordered and disorder porous electrodes.

applied in all three directions (Figure 6b). To model the disordered porous structure, the second and the fourth layers of the ordered structure were shifted by a distance of 10 Å in both the *x* and *y* directions (Figure 6c). It should be noted that the disordered porous structure modeled in the MD simulation was much simpler than that observed experimentally. Nevertheless, the MD simulation results indicated that such a simple disruption of the ordered structure can significantly affect mass transport in the porous structure.

The Tersoff potential was used to model the atomic interactions of the carbon atoms. The interactions among the carbon atoms, water molecules, O2 molecules, and OH<sup>−</sup> ions were modeled by the van der Waals force described by the 12–6 Lennard-Jones potential with a cut-off distance of 10 Å. The simulation was first conducted in the constant pressure and temperature ensemble to equilibrate the porous electrode at 300 K and 1 bar for 0.5 ns with the time step of 1 fs and was then continued in the constant volume and temperature ensemble at 300 K for 2 ns during which the average mean square displacement (MSD) of the O atoms of O2 molecules and that of the OH− ions were recorded (Table S5, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 6d,e, the calculated average MSD of the O atoms from the O2 molecules and from the OH− ions were both larger in the ordered porous structure than those in the disordered porous structure, suggesting that the mass transportation in the ordered electrode was greatly facilitated.

To demonstrate the potential application of the as-synthesized electrocatalyst, a primary zinc–air battery (ZAB) was assembled using a gas diffusion layer loaded with Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP as the air electrode (**Figure 7**a). The open-circuit voltage was stable and up to 1.619 V, which is very close to the theoretical value of 1.65 V (Figure 7b). The ZAB driven by Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP could achieve a peak power density of 134 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> , which is much higher than that of ZAB driven by commercial Pt/C +IrO2 (Figure 7c) and previously reported electrocatalysts.[36–38] Additionally, no remarkable voltage drop was observed in the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP-based ZAB during a galvanostatic discharge test at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , indicating that the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP had a superior catalytic stability during cell operation (Figure 7d). A red light-emitting diode (LED) with the letters of FDU could be easily illuminated by the Fe0.5Co@ HOMNCP-based ZAB (Figure 7d inset), revealing its practical potential for powering electronics. The specific capacity normalized to the mass of consumed Zn was calculated to be 786.5 mA h g−<sup>1</sup> (Figure 7e), which is also higher than those of the ZABs constructed using the Pt/C + IrO2 catalyst (633.6 mA h g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ), or the recently reported the Fe- or Co-based catalysts (Tables S6, Supporting Information). Moreover, compared with a voltage gap of 0.67 V at a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for the

**Figure 7.** a) Schematic illustration of a typical aqueous ZAB containing Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP as the air electrode. b) Open-circuit plot of a ZAB using Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP as the air cathode. c) Polarization curves and the corresponding power density curves. d) Long-term discharge curves: inset is a photograph of an LED powered by the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP-based ZAB. e) Discharge curves of ZAB with Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP and Pt/C + IrO2 as the cathode catalysts under continuous discharge until complete consumption of Zn at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. f) Long-term galvanostatic charge–discharge test of Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP-based ZAB at a current density of 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

Pt/C + IrO2-based ZAB, a smaller voltage gap of 0.6 V could be achieved for the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP-based ZAB. The excellent rechargeability of the Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP-based ZAB was further illustrated by a long-term cycling test (120 h), which showed no obvious potential drop (Figure 7f).

# **3. Conclusion**

We have innovatively employed a template method combined with cation adsorption and thermal reduction to implant highly dispersed Co alloy nanoparticles into hierarchical porous carbon polyhedra with ordered macroporous interconnected by mesoporous and microporous. Owing to the alloying of Co and the trimodal-porous carbon matrix with efficient charge/mass transfer, a lower energy barrier for the intermediates and more active site exposure could be achieved. As a result, the as-synthesized Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP exhibited a prominent ORR performance with a half-potential of 0.903 V versus RHE in an alkaline medium, not only surpassing a commercial Pt/C catalyst but also representing a new record for the Co-N-C catalyst. More importantly, a Fe0.5Co@HOMNCP-based ZAB could deliver a higher opencircuit voltage and larger power density as well as remarkable durability relative to commercial Pt/C + IrO2-assembled counterpart. The developed strategy in this study may provide a new inspiration for the exploration of non-precious TM-based materials for oxygen electrocatalysis in rechargeable metal–air batteries.

### **4. Experimental Section**

Detailed experimental procedures can be found in the Supporting Information.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

W.L. and B.L. contributed equally to this work. This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52071084, 51871060, 51922031, 52071083, 51831009, and 11802087) and "Shuguang Program" supported by Shanghai Education Development Foundation and Shanghai Municipal Education Commission (20SG03), Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (No. 20XD1420600), National Key R&D Program of China (2020YFA0406204), and Zhuhai Fudan Innovation Institute.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2022, 17, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202109605 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# **Keywords**

alloys, mass transfer, ordered macroporous–mesoporous–microporous carbon, oxygen reduction reaction, zinc–air batteries

> Received: November 25, 2021 Revised: February 25, 2022 Published online: March 20, 2022

- [1] D. Zhao, K. Sun, W.-C. Cheong, L. Zheng, C. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu, Y. Pan, Z. Zhuang, B. Hu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8982.
- [2] Y. Zhou, G. Chen, Q. Wang, D. Wang, X. Tao, T. Zhang, X. Feng, K. Mullen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102420.
- [3] N. Zion, J. Douglin, D. A. Cullen, P. Zelenay, D. R. Dekel, L. Elbaz, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100963.
- [4] H. Xu, H. Jia, H. Li, J. Liu, X. Gao, J. Zhang, M. Liu, D. Sun, S. Chou, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *297*, 120390.
- [5] Z. Wang, X. Jin, C. Zhu, Y. Liu, H. Tan, R. Ku, Y. Zhang, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, S. Hwang, H. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2104718.
- [6] Z. Wang, X. Yao, Y. Kang, L. Miao, D. Xia, L. Gan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1902987.
- [7] C. Cao, D. D. Ma, J. F. Gu, X. Xie, G. Zeng, X. Li, S. G. Han, Q. L. Zhu, X. T. Wu, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *132*, 15124.
- [8] Z. Liang, C. Qu, D. Xia, R. Zou, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 9604.
- [9] X. Yan, Y. Ha, R. Wu, *Small Methods* **2021**, *5*, 200827.
- [10] G. Fu, Y. Chen, Z. Cui, Y. Li, W. Zhou, S. Xin, Y. Tang, J. B. Goodenough, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 6516.
- [11] C.-Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z.-Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. Hou, F.-Q. Bai, H.-X. Zhang, T.-Y. Ma, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1602420.
- [12] A. I. Douka, Y. Xu, H. Yang, S. Zaman, Y. Yan, H. Liu, M. A. Salam, B. Y. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002170.
- [13] X. Zhang, X. Han, Z. Jiang, J. Xu, L. Chen, Y. Xue, A. Nie, Z. Xie, Q. Kuang, L. Zheng, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *71*, 104547.
- [14] C. Han, X. Bo, J. Liu, M. Li, M. Zhou, L. Guo, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2017**, *710*, 57.
- [15] W. Li, J. Liu, P. Guo, H. Li, B. Fei, Y. Guo, H. Pan, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102134.

- [16] Z. Zhu, H. Yin, Y. Wang, C.-H. Chuang, L. Xing, M. Dong, Y.-R. Lu, G. Casillas-Garcia, Y. Zheng, S. Chen, Y. Dou, P. Liu, Q. Cheng, H. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2004670.
- [17] W. Gong, Y. Lin, C. Chen, M. Al-Mamun, H.-S. Lu, G. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808341.
- [18] X. Feng, X. Bo, L. Guo, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *389*, 249.
- [19] H. Xin, Y. Xue, W. Zhang, P. Wu, X. Li, *J. Catal.* **2019**, *380*, 254.
- [20] M. Jiang, C. Fu, R. Cheng, W. Zhang, T. Liu, R. Wang, J. Zhang, B. Sun, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 2000747.
- [21] Y. Lv, M. Han, W. Gong, D. Wang, C. Chen, G. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 23521.
- [22] S. H. Noh, M. H. Seo, J. Kang, T. Okajima, B. Han, T. Ohsaka, *NPG Asia Mater.* **2016**, *8*, e312.
- [23] Y. Ha, B. Fei, X. Yan, H. Xu, Z. Chen, L. Shi, M. Fu, W. Xu, R. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2002592.
- [24] Q. Han, X. Zhao, Y. Luo, L. Wu, S. Sun, J. Li, Y. Wang, G. Liu, Z. Chen, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *9*, 2104237.
- [25] Z. Wang, Y. Dong, H. Li, Z. Zhao, H. Bin Wu, C. Hao, S. Liu, J. Qiu, X. W. Lou, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 5002.
- [26] Z. Chen, Y. Ha, Y. Liu, H. Wang, H. Yang, H. Xu, Y. Li, R. Wu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 7134.
- [27] Z. Chen, H. Qing, R. Wang, R. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3160.
- [28] X. F. Lu, L. Yu, J. Zhang, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900699.
- [29] Z. Chen, R. Wu, Y. Liu, Y. Ha, Y. Guo, D. Sun, M. Liu, F. Fang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1802011.
- [30] Y. Liu, Z. Chen, H. Jia, H. Xu, M. Liu, R. Wu, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 6113.
- [31] D. Zhou, Y. Jia, H. Yang, W. Xu, K. Sun, J. Zhang, S. Wang, Y. Kuang, B. Liu, X. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 21162.
- [32] D. Xu, Y. Tian, J. Zhao, X. Wang, *J. Nanopart. Res.* **2015**, *17*, 25.
- [33] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Adv. Catal.* **2000**, *45*, 71.
- [34] Y. Li, W. Wang, B. Zhang, L. Fu, M. Wan, G. Li, Z. Cai, S. Tu, X. Duan, Z. W. Seh, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 6656.
- [35] L. An, N. Jiang, B. Li, S. Hua, Y. Fu, J. Liu, W. Hao, D. Xia, Z. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 5962.
- [36] J. Yan, Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, S. Xia, J. Yu, B. Ding, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007525.
- [37] Y. Wu, Z. Xiao, Z. Jin, X. Li, Y. Chen, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *590*, 321.
- [38] S. Sultan, J. N. Tiwari, J. H. Jang, A. M. Harzandi, F. Salehnia, S. J. Yoo, K. S. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801002.