---
source: Li 等 - 2025 - High‐Shell Sulfur Doping Enhances Mn‐N4 Spin States and Boosts Oxygen Reduction Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 17.930s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:18:19.931819Z
---

# **High-Shell Sulfur Doping Enhances Mn-N4 Spin States and Boosts Oxygen Reduction Reaction Performance in both Acidic and Alkaline Media**

*Yuan Li, Hao-Ran Wu, Yue Yu, Miao-Ying Chen, Kuang-Min Zhao, Wei-Dong Li, Si-Yu Rong, Dong-ping Xue, Jia-Nan Zhang,\* and Bang-An Lu\**

**The development of platinum group metal-free catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is critical to advancing sustainable energy conversion technologies. Manganese (Mn)-based catalysts, known for their reduced toxicity and promising durability, have traditionally exhibited lower ORR activity compared to state-of-the-art iron-nitrogen-carbon (Fe-N-C) catalysts. In this study, a highly efficient Mn-N-C-S catalyst is presented, engineered through a sulfur-mediated high-shell coordinated doping strategy, that markedly enhances ORR activity and stability. The Mn-N-C-S catalyst achieves a record-high half-wave potential of 0.94 V in alkaline media, among the highest values reported for Mn-based catalysts. Additionally, in acidic media, it exhibits a half-wave potential of 0.80 V, placing it among the top-performing M-N-C catalysts. The catalyst also demonstrates a high peak power density of 0.82 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in H2-O2 fuel cells and 0.264 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in Zn-air batteries, outperforming previously reported Mn-based catalysts. Both experimental findings and theoretical computations suggest that the high-shell S-doping can increase the spin density of Mn sites, strengthen Mn-N bonds, and thereby improve the durability of Mn-N4 sites. This work underscores the effectiveness of high-shell sulfur doping and paving the way for their deployment in the cathodes of fuel cells and metal-air batteries.**

**1. Introduction**

The development of platinum group metal (PGM)-free catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is essential for the largescale adoption of sustainable energy conversion technologies,

Y. Li, H.-R. Wu, Y. Yu, M.-Y. Chen, W.-D. Li, S.-Y. Rong, D.-ping Xue, J.-N. Zhang, B.-A. Lu

College of Materials Science and Engineering

Zhengzhou University

Zhengzhou 450001, P. R. China

E-mail: [zjn@zzu.edu.cn;](mailto:zjn@zzu.edu.cn) [balu@zzu.edu.cn](mailto:balu@zzu.edu.cn)

K.-M. Zhao

State Key Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Xiamen University

Xiamen 361005, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202411678>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202411678**

such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries. Among the various PGM-free options, metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) catalysts have garnered significant attention due to their potential to replace costly Ptbased catalysts.[\[1–6\]](#page-9-0) To date, the most active transition metal catalysts are iron (Fe)- N-C, and their activity has proven equivalent to that of commercial Pt/C.[\[7\]](#page-9-0) However, their long-term stability is compromised by the Fenton reaction, which accelerates the degradation of the carbon support, membrane, and ionomer in the catalytic layer.[\[8,9\]](#page-9-0) This instability poses a significant barrier to their practical application in membrane electrode assemblies (MEAs).[\[10\]](#page-9-0) In contrast, Manganese (Mn)-based catalysts offer distinct advantages, including reduced toxicity and promising durability, making them attractive alternatives.[\[11–16\]](#page-9-0) However, the ORR activity of Mn-N-C catalysts has consistently lagged behind that of state-ofthe-art Fe-N-C catalysts. This gap in performance highlights the urgent need for novel approaches to enhance the intrinsic activity

and stability of Mn-N-C catalysts, making them viable for practical applications.[\[17–20\]](#page-9-0)

A key challenge in improving Mn-N-C catalysts lies in the precise engineering of their electronic and geometric structures.[\[21–23\]](#page-9-0) While traditional research has focused primarily on optimizing the coordination environment within the first and second shells of the catalytic sites, the influence of the coordination environment beyond the second shell has remained largely underexplored. Recent studies suggest that the local environment plays a critical role in determining the activity and stability of catalytic sites.[\[24–28\]](#page-10-0) For example, research by Wu et al. and Xu et al. has demonstrated the importance of fine-tuning the coordination of Mn-N4 sites to resist demetallation and improve ORR performance.[\[29–33\]](#page-10-0) In this context, anion doping, presents a promising strategy to modify the local electronic structure of Mn-N4 sites.[\[34–38\]](#page-10-0) However, the impact of high-shell coordinated anion-doping, where dopants are positioned beyond the second coordination shell, has not been fully investigated. More importantly, the unclear effect underlying high-shell doping on MNx must be elucidated to facilitate the rational design of durable catalysts.

Herein, we introduce a sulfur-mediated high-shell coordinated doping strategy to construct atomically dispersed Mn-N-C-S catalysts. This approach strategically positions sulfur within the highcoordination shell of Mn-N4 moieties, resulting in a series of beneficial electronic and structural modifications. Experimental findings, supported by density functional theory (DFT) calculations, reveal that the electron-withdrawing properties of sulfur enhance the spin density of Mn-N4 sites, reduce the affinity for oxygen intermediates, and strengthen Mn-N bonds, thereby significantly boosting the intrinsic ORR activity. Additionally, sulfur doping increases the density of active sites and improves surface hydrophobicity, providing a greater number of O2-accessible sites at the triple-phase boundaries. These structural enhancements translate into practical improvements, as demonstrated by the Mn-N-C-S catalyst's exceptional ORR performance, achieving a record peak power density of 0.82 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in H2-O2 fuel cells and 0.264 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in Zn-air batteries. Furthermore, ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) simulations confirm that sulfur's high-shell coordination stabilizes Mn-N bonds through electron transfer, enhancing the durability of Mn-N4 sites under operational conditions. Notably, these enhancements also lead to remarkable stability, with Mn-N-C-S showing minimal degradation under practical fuel cell operating conditions, significantly outperforming both Mn-N-C and Fe-N-C catalysts.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Catalyst Synthesis, Morphology, and Structures**

A sulfur-mediated two-step adsorption-pyrolysis strategy, as depicted in **Figure 1**[a,](#page-2-0) has proven successful in progressively introducing more Mn-N4 active sites in Mn-N-C-S catalysts with a significant microporosity and exterior surface area. Since ZIF-8-derived carbon materials are created by carbonization at high temperatures, they contain an abundance of micropores and defects (Figure S1, Supporting Information), which enables the hosting of a high density of Mn-N4 sites and the formation of atomic dispersion in the carbon. The two-step doping and adsorption process increases the number of active Mn sites in the carbon catalyst. The general morphology of the catalysts resembles that of ZIF-8 precursors, with ≈100 nm dodecahedron carbon particles dispersed uniformly (Figure [1b;](#page-2-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information). The high-resolution scanning transmission electron microscope (TEM) image reveals the carbon layer structure and regular dodecahedron shape (Figure [1c;](#page-2-0) Figure S3, Supporting Information). Mn-N-C likewise exhibited a regular dodecahedron structure. As shown in Figure [1d,](#page-2-0) STEM-EDS elemental maps reveal that C, N, and Mn atoms are uniformly distributed throughout the catalyst.[\[39,40\]](#page-10-0) Notably, the S-doping increased the introduction of manganese ions into ZIF-8 (Figure [1e;](#page-2-0) Figure S4, Supporting Information). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra of both catalysts are dominated by carbon peaks without the presence of metal clusters (Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0),[\[41,42\]](#page-10-0) and the Raman spectra indicate that the incorporation of S atoms into the carbon substrate increase structural defects of carbon (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0).[\[43\]](#page-10-0) ICP-MS indicates that the Mn content of Mn-N-C-S can reach 1.7 wt.%, which is 1.3 times that of Mn-N-C (1.30 wt.%) (Table S1, Supporting Information). The Fourier Transform Infrared Radiation (FTIR) results exhibit a high absorption peak at 1307 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> attributed to the vibration of the C-S-C molecule, confirming that sulfur atoms were successfully incorporated into the carbon structure (Figure S5, Supporting Information).[\[37\]](#page-10-0)

The composition and chemical states of the surface layer of the catalyst were characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).[\[44\]](#page-10-0) According to the analysis of the material's XPS spectrum, Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C contain the elements Mn, C, N, and S, respectively (Figure S6a, Supporting Information). The N 1*s* peak at 399.8 eV, as observed in **Figure 2**[a,](#page-3-0) relates to the binding of N atoms to the Mn site, most likely the Mn-N bond. The fraction of Mn-N bonds increased from 5.04% to 10.82% after *S* doping (Table S2, Supporting Information). Consistent with FTIR observations, the C-S-C structure will form in the carbon after S-doping (Figure S6b–f, Supporting Information). Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) was used to elucidate the work function and the covalent state of the active center and oxygen intermediate (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). The decrease in the work function results in an increase in the Fermi level and causes the center of the dband to shift upward, allowing more electrons to enter the C-O (\*) antibonding orbital and rendering C-O (\*) unstable and allowing more electrons to enter the P-orbital of the oxygen intermediate. Mn-N-C-S possesses a smaller work function than Mn-N-C, indicating that S doping can lower the electron transfer barrier from the active center to the oxygen intermediate and thus facilitate the ORR process.[\[45–47\]](#page-10-0) The vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) test was utilized to expose the catalyst's vulnerability in greater detail (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). The effective magnetic moments of Mn-N-C and Mn-N-C-S are 0.97 and 3.57 eff, respectively, indicating that Mn-N-C is in a low-spin state (t2g5eg0) while Mn-N-C-S is in a medium-spin state (t2g4eg1).[\[48\]](#page-10-0) The enhanced spin state of the Mn center can reduce the energy barrier of O2 conversion by optimizing the adsorption/desorption of intermediates, leading to a facile transition from O2 to \*OOH step.[\[49\]](#page-10-0) These results indicate that high-shell coordinated S doping can improve the electronic structure of the catalyst.[\[34\]](#page-10-0)

The Mn K-edge of the XANES spectrum (Figure [2d\)](#page-3-0) clearly shows the adsorption edge of Mn-N-C-S between MnO and MnO2 but closer to MnO, we have utilized the absorption threshold value (*E*0) to calculate the valance states of the Mn atoms.[\[50\]](#page-10-0) The Mn-N-C-S catalyzes show higher Mn valance states (≈+2.01) than the Mn-N-C (≈+1.91) (Figure S7, Supporting Information), verifying the electron-withdraw properties of high-shell coordinated sulfur-doping. As shown in Figure [2f,](#page-3-0) the Fourier transform of the *k*2-weighted EXAFS curves (FT-EXAFS) of the two catalysts shows the prominent peak at ≈1.63 Å, which is attributed to the scattering of Mn-N bonding. Meanwhile, no Mn-Mn contribution at ≈2.3 Å can be found in the two catalysts. The FT-EXAFS of the two catalysts do not entirely overlap, which implies that the S doping could affect the coordination environment of Mn atoms in the Mn-N-C-S catalyst. Impressively, the Mn-N (1.63 Å) scattering path of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst observed in the *R*-space is stronger than that of the Mn-N-C catalyst (Figure S8, Supporting Information), thus verifying the localization of S around the Mn-N coordination. To more intuitively indicate the coordination of Mn, the wavelet transform EXAFS (WT-EXAFS) was also performed due to the powerful resolutions in *k* and *R* spaces. The WT contour plots of Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C catalysts (Figure [2e;](#page-3-0) Figure S9, Supporting Information) show the intensity peaks with a *k* value of 3.8 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for the Mn-N

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of synthesis procedure for Mn-N-C-S catalysts; b,c) TEM image of Mn-N-C-S, and d) energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping images of individual Mn-N-C-S nanoparticles; e) High-angle annular dark-field STEM (HAADF-STEM) image of Mn-N-C-S; f) XRD patterns and g) Raman spectra of Mn-N-C and Mn-N-C-S catalysts.

bonding, which is clearly distinguished from the Mn metal (4.0 Å<sup>−</sup>1) and Mn oxides (6.4 Å<sup>−</sup>1). These results further confirm that Mn sites are atomically dispersed in Mn-N-C and Mn-N-C-S catalysts, consistent with the FT-EXAFS and the Electron Energy Loss Spectroscopy (EELS) results. Furthermore, the model-based EXAFS was carried out to further confirm the local structure of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst, showing four N-coordinated structures at the first shell and two S-coordinated structures at the third shell, i.e., MnN4C8S2 moieties (Figure [2g\)](#page-3-0). In contrast, the Mn-N-C catalyst possesses four N-coordinated structures at the first shell of Mn (Figure S10, Supporting Information).

# **2.2. Catalytic Activity and Stability in Acid Conditions**

We obtained the adsorption strength of \*OH by square wave voltammetry (SWV) in 0.1 M HClO4 electrolyte. The Pt-OH was also used as the benchmark to evaluate the affinity of OH. The

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) High-resolution N 1s XPS spectra of Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C catalysts; b) The UPS spectra of Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C catalysts; c) Magnetic susceptibility of Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C (M.S. represents medium-spin, L.S. represents low-spin); d) Experimental K-edge XANES spectra of Mn-N-C-S catalyst, Mn-N-C catalyst, and reference samples (Mn foil, MnO, and MnO2); e) WT-EXAFS of Mn-N-C, MnO, and Mn-N-C-S; f) Fourier transforms of Mn K-edge EXAFS data of Mn-N-C, Mn-N-C-S catalysts and reference samples. g) FT-EXAFS fitting curve of Mn-N-C-S. Inset: atomic structure model of Mn-N-C-S, Mn (purple), N (white), S (yellow) and C (brown).

adsorption of \*OH on Mn-N-C (0.71 V) is stronger than that of Pt/C (0.85 V), which implies that the adsorption strength of ORR intermediates at the Mn-N4 sites in Mn-N-C catalysts is too strong.[\[51,52\]](#page-10-0) Interestingly, the anodic peak of Mn-N-C-S positively shifted by 47 mV than that of Mn-N-C, indicating that high-shell coordinated sulfur doping has a significant impact on the \*OH binding energy (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0). Using a rotating disc electrode (RDE) in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4, polarization curves were acquired to analyze the ORR activity. The half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst (*E*1/2 = 0.80 V) was significantly greater than that of the Mn-N-C catalyst (*E*1/2 = 0.70 V) (Figure [3b;](#page-4-0) Figure S11, Supporting Information), even comparable to that of Fe-N-C (*E*1/2 = 0.80 V), but lower than commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C (*E*1/2 =0.83 V). In addition, although a tiny amount of Zn remains in the catalyst even after pyrolysis at 1000 °C (Table S9, Supporting Information), this trace amount of Zn cannot account for the superior ORR performance of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst, as the ORR activity of the N-C structure alone is relatively poor (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Moreover, the N-C-S samples without Mn loading exhibit very poor ORR activity, indicating that the carbon matrix alone cannot account for the catalyst's high activity (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The Mn-N-C-S is among the state-of-the-art M-N-C catalysts in acidic conditions (Figure S12, Table S5, Supporting Information).

SCN<sup>−</sup> was chosen as the chemical probe for the toxicological assay to detect the active sites of the catalyst since both SCN<sup>−</sup> and the metal site of the catalyst demonstrate considerable adsorption.[\[53\]](#page-10-0) The addition of SCN<sup>−</sup> dramatically decreased the *E*1/2 of Mn-N-C-S (≈40 mV), indicating that the primary active site of the Mn-doped catalyst is the Mn site embedded in the carbon group (Figure S13, Supporting Information).[\[54\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, compared to conventional Pt/C, Mn-N-C-S

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) Under 0.1 M N2-saturated HClO4, background-subtracted square wave voltammogram of Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C and CV curve of Pt/C. b) Steady-state ORR polarization plots for the Mn-N-C-S, Mn-N-C and Pt/C catalysts in 0.1 M HClO₄ at 30 °C; c) The reduction charge of nitrite on Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C catalysts. d) Hydrogen peroxide yields of Mn-N-C-S, Mn-N-C catalysts in 0.1 M HClO₄ at 30 °C. e) The ORR stability of Mn-N-C-S in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4 was measured before circulating at 30 and at 80 °C. f) The retention of kinetic current density for Mn-N-C-S, Mn-N-C, Fe-N-C catalysts at 0.75 V at 30 and at 80 °C after 10 000 cycles. g) H<sub>2</sub>-O<sub>2</sub> fuel cell polarization plots with Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C as the cathode catalysts under 200 kPa absolute air pressure at O2 and H2 flow rates of 400 and 300 sccm, respectively; h) Power density comparison of catalysts in proton exchange membrane fuel cell in historical literature; i) Comparison of major fuel cell performance metrics and E<sub>1/2</sub> for Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C in this

demonstrates improved methanol resistance (Figure S14, Supporting Information). To evaluate the intrinsic activity, we then calculate the individual activity-based active sites. For the nitrite desorption studies of the catalyst, 0.5 м acetate buffer at pH 5.2 was utilized as the electrolyte to measure the number of active sites.<sup>[55,56]</sup> The stripping charge of nitrite on the Mn-N-C-S catalyst is 5.43 C g<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3c), 5.48 times higher than that of Mn-N-C (0.99 C g<sup>-1</sup>), but only less than 22% of Fe-N-C (24 C g<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure S15, Supporting Information). After mass normalization, the mass site densities of Mn-N-C and Mn-N-C-S are 1.98  $\mu mol~g^{-1}$  (1.19  $\times$  10<sup>18</sup> sites  $g^{-1}$ ) and 10.86  $\mu$ mol g<sup>-1</sup> (6.54 × 10<sup>18</sup> sites g<sup>-1</sup>), respectively, indicating that the addition of sulfur to Mn-N-C significantly enhanced

the density of active sites. Furthermore, the S-doping considerably reduced the yield of hydrogen peroxide in both acidic and alkaline environments.[34] The Mn-N-C-S catalyst produced less than 10%  $H_2O_2$  in the range of 0.25 to 0.65 V in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub>, whereas the Mn-N-C catalyst produced less than 35%  $H_2O_2$  (Figure 3d). Moreover, when the temperature increases, the 4e<sup>-</sup> selectivity decreases, and the yield of hydrogen peroxide increases (Figure S16, Supporting Information). In addition, as the loading increases, the hydrogen peroxide yield decreases in acidic media (Figure \$17, Supporting Information), consistent with previous results.[57–59]

In order to evaluate the durability of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst under the actual operating temperature of PEMFC,

stability tests were conducted at 30 and 80 °C,[\[60\]](#page-10-0) respectively (Figures S18–S22, Supporting Information). Intriguingly, the decrease in half-wave potential and kinetic current retention rate of all catalysts at elevated temperatures is considerably greater than at low temperatures. After 10 000 cycles in 0.1 M HClO4 electrolyte at 30 °C, the Δ*E*1/2 of Mn-N-C-S, Mn-N-C and Fe-N-C catalysts are 4, 52, and 20 mV respectively. The *j* <sup>k</sup> loss rates of Mn-N-C-S, Mn-N-C, and Fe-N-C catalysts at 30 °C and 0.75 V are Mn-N-C-S (10%) *<* Mn-N-C (54%) *<* Fe-N-C (74%). The *E*1/2 loss of Mn-N-C-S has changed minimally while decreasing 10 mV after 10 000 cycles in 0.1 M HClO4 at 80 °C, indicating the temperature-induced accelerating degradation effects of the catalyst (Figure [3e;](#page-4-0) Figures S18e and S20b, Supporting Information). Notably, the kinetic current density loss of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst after 10 000 cycles at 80 °C (45%) is less than that of the Mn-N-C catalyst (82%), demonstrating the robustness of the highshell coordinated S-doping strategy. In addition, we conducted ICP tests on the electrolyte before and after the stability test to assess the demetallization of catalysts during the test. As revealed by ICP-MS results (Table S10, Supporting Information), the introduction of high-coordination sulfur can significantly inhibit Mn demetallization. The Fe-N-C active sites are more susceptible to destruction and have much faster kinetics loss compared to the Mn-based catalyst (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0), confirming the promising durability of the Mn-based catalyst in the practical application of fuel cells.[\[14,23\]](#page-9-0)

Both Mn-based catalysts were inserted as cathodes into MEAs to assess their performance and durability under fuel cell operation conditions. Under H2-O2 conditions, the cathode of Mn-N-C-S produced 112 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.80 V, 2.8 times higher than Mn-N-C (40 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure S23a, Supporting Information). It is noteworthy that Mn-N-C-S has the highest power density of 0.82 W cm<sup>−</sup>2, which outperforms the vast majority of previously reported Mn-N-C catalysts in H2-O2 fuel cells (Figure [3h;](#page-4-0) Table S7, Supporting Information). S-free Mn-N-C, in contrast, demonstrated a lower power density of 0.56 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [3g\)](#page-4-0). The Mn-N-C-S cathode also delivers promising MEA endurance, just 110 mV voltage loss (19.5%) at 0.8 A cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density during 10 000 voltage cycling accelerated stress testing (AST) (Figure [3i;](#page-4-0) Figure S23b, Supporting Information). AST reduces the power density of Mn-N-C from 0.56 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.36 V to 0.31 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.22 V for comparison (Figure S23c, Supporting Information). The greater hydrophobicity of Mn-N-C-S may be one of the sources of the enhanced MEA performance (Figure S23d, Supporting Information).

#### **2.3. The Mechanism of S Doping**

Given that the Fe-N-C catalyst generates a substantial quantity of H2O2 at elevated temperatures, it is reasonable to assume that the quantity of H2O2 may be a determining factor in the catalyst's degradation. The ratio of peak area is (1:2:2:1), suggesting the presence of the hydroxyl radical, as revealed by the electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) test (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0).[\[62\]](#page-10-0) However, the peak value of Mn-N-C-S was the smallest, followed by Mn-N-C, and the value of Fe-N-C was the greatest, showing the lower Fenton effect of Mn ion than that of Fe ion. In the actual operating environment of fuel cells, hydrogen peroxide accumulates and attacks the catalyst, suggesting that Mn with weak Fenton is more likely to survive. As a result, S doping considerably enhanced the resistance to hydrogen peroxide attack. We also utilized UV/visible absorption spectroscopy to test the catalyst's reactivity in terms of ROS generation (Figure [4b,c\)](#page-6-0), As a substrate, 2,20-aminobis (3 ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) was utilized.[\[63\]](#page-10-0) As a regularly used molecular probe, ABTS is susceptible to oxidation by ROS, resulting in a shift in absorbance at 417 nm. Excitingly, the Mn-N-C-S catalyst had a lower absorbance than Fe-N-C by ≈50%. Therefore, there is no question that the Mn-N-C-S catalyst limits ROS production relative to Mn-N-C and Fe-N-C.

We conducted studies with H2O2 treatment in acidic and alkaline electrolytes at 30 and 80 °C to evaluate H2O2 affects SD. After being reduced in NaCl solution, the catalyst's half-wave potential still lowers by 46 mV at 30 °C and 90 mV at 80 °C following acidic hydrogen peroxide treatment (Figure [4d;](#page-6-0) Figure S24, Supporting Information), indicating that the degradation was not the result of surface carbon oxidation induced by hydrogen peroxide attack.[\[64\]](#page-10-0) Under the influence of alkaline hydrogen peroxide, the half-wave potential of the catalyst reduces by 52 mV at 30 °C and by 66 mV at 80 °C, indicating that the catalyst is more susceptible to assault in acidic environments than in alkaline conditions (Figure S25, Supporting Information). At 30 °C, the corresponding 69.9% and 81.4% of active sites were lost after alkaline and acid H2O2 treatment, respectively. More severe losses were observed at 80 °C (Figures S26–S29, Supporting Information). The retention of the active site of manganese-based catalyst is significantly higher than that of iron-based catalyst (Figure [4e\)](#page-6-0). This shows the protecting effects of S-doping from demetallization of Mn-N4 catalyst due to H2O2 attack (Figure [4f\)](#page-6-0).

#### **2.4. Catalytic Activity and Stability in Alkali Conditions**

The Mn-N-C-S demonstrates a record ORR activity in alkaline media. Using an RDE in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH, polarization curves revealed that the half-wave potential of the Mn-N-C-S catalyst (*E*1/2 = 0.94 V) was much greater than that of the Mn-N-C catalyst (*E*1/2 = 0.88 V), even greater than that of Fe-N-C and commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C (**Figure 5**[a;](#page-7-0) Figure S30, Supporting Information). Similarly, N-C and N-C-S without metallic Mn loading showed poor activity under alkaline conditions, indicating that the high activity of the catalyst is not caused by the support (Figure S30, Supporting Information). To the best of our knowledge, the Mn-N-C-S exhibits the highest ORR activity among the state-of-the-art Mn-N-C catalysts in alkaline conditions (Figure [5c;](#page-7-0) Table S6, Supporting Information). Furthermore, consistent with trends observed in acidic media, Mn-N-C-S generates substantially less hydrogen peroxide than Mn-N-C in 0.1 M KOH, highlighting its ORR efficiency. (Figures S31–S33, Supporting Information). Stability tests indicate the Mn-N-C-S catalyst maintains a high *E*1/2 with only a 20 mV drop after 10 000 potential cycles in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH (Figure [5b\)](#page-7-0), showcasing improved stability compared to Fe-N-C (36 mV loss) and Mn-N-C (24 mV loss) under similar conditions (Figures S34–S37, Supporting Information). This enhanced durability is attributed to sulfur doping, which mitigates Mn-N4 demetallation caused by H2O2 corrosion during ORR and stabilizes the catalyst structure. Building on these favorable ORR characteristics, we applied

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) The EPR spectra of Mn-N-C-S, Mn-N-C, and Fe-N-C catalysts; b) UV/Vis absorption spectra of 0.1 M HClO4 solutions of only ABTS, H2O2+ABTS, Mn-N-C-S+ABTS, Mn-N-C-S+H2O2+ABTS, Fe-N-C+ABTS, Fe-N-C+H2O2+ABTS; c) The net value of Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C, the larger the value, the more \*OH are detected; d) Effects of acidic H2O2-treatment and subsequent electroreduction in 0.5 M NaCl on the ORR activity of Mn-N-C-S, the polarization curves of hydrogen oxide treated in 0.1 M HClO4; e) The retention of active site of catalysts after H2O2 treatment in 0.1 M HClO4; f) The schematic diagram of S-doping protecting Mn-N4 catalyst from demetallization due to H2O2 attack.

Mn-N-C-S in both liquid and flexible all-solid-state rechargeable Zn-air batteries (ZABs) to assess practical viability (Figure [5d\)](#page-7-0). As anticipated, Mn-N-C-S catalysts exhibit superior performance in Zn-air batteries.[\[61\]](#page-10-0) In 6 M KOH, Zn foil was utilized as the anode while Mn-N-C-S was employed as the cathode. Mn-N-C-S has a high-power density of 0.264 W cm<sup>−</sup>2, notably surpassing Mn-N-C and commercial Pt/C (Figure [5e\)](#page-7-0). The Mn-N-C-S demonstrated exceptional cycling stability, maintaining steady performance over 82 h at a current density of 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [5g,h,](#page-7-0) Figure S38 and Table S8, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [5f,](#page-7-0) the Mn-N-C-S catalyst is assembled on a solid-state zinc-air battery, which can be used for diode operation and has a rated voltage, of up to 3.4 V. Furthermore, the flexible solidstate Zn-air battery retained consistent open-circuit voltage and mechanical integrity across various folding angles, underscoring the robust mechanical and electrochemical properties of Mn-N-

C-S in flexible energy storage applications (Figure S39, Supporting Information).

# **2.5. AIMD Simulation and DFT Calculations**

To elucidate the observed trends in the stability of Mn-N-C-S catalysts, we conducted AIMD simulations to investigate the impact of sulfur doping on catalyst stability.[\[65\]](#page-10-0) S-free model (Figure S40, Supporting Information) and S-doped model (**Figure 6**[a\)](#page-8-0) with H3O<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>−</sup> ion after 6 ps equilibrium are investigated by using AIMD simulation at 300 K. The static DFT calculations are carried out to compute the Mn adhesive energies after the AIMD equilibrium.[\[66\]](#page-10-0) With the energy of a single Mn atom in crystal bulk as a reference, the adhesive energy of Mn in the Sfree model is theoretically predicted as −1.54 eV. Interestingly,

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Steady-state ORR polarization plots for the Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C catalysts in 0.1 M KOH; b) The ORR stability of Mn-N-C-S in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH was measured before circulating at 30 and at 80 °C; c) Half-wave potential in alkaline electrolyte comparison between Mn-N-C-S and the Part of the historical literature; d) The schematic illustration of ZAB assembled with Mn-N-C-S; e) Polarization and power density curves of the primary Zn-Air batteries of the Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C and Pt/C catalysts in O2-saturated 6 M KOH solution; f) Photograph of all-solid-state Zn-air battery displaying a measured open-circuit voltage of ≈1.336 V. Photograph of a lighted LED powered (left to right be red, blue and green) by three all-solid-state Zn-air batteries, the maximum required voltage of 3.4 V; g) Cycling performance of rechargeable Zn-air batteries at a constant charge-discharge current density of 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2; h) Power density comparison of catalysts in Zn-air batteries in historical literature.

the Mn adhesive energy of Mn in the S-doped model was computed as −1.89 eV (Figure [6d\)](#page-8-0), indicating that the high-shell coordinated S-doping can strengthen the Mn-binding interaction and enhance stability. The radial distribution function G(r) of Mn-N bond lengths was simulated in an acidic solution environment approximated by explicit H2O molecules and H3O<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>−</sup> ion (Figure [6e\)](#page-8-0). The statistical Mn-N bond distance of the S-doped model is slightly lengthened by 0.05 Å as compared with the Sfree model simulated by using AIMD at 300 K, consistent with FT-EXAFS results in Figure [2f.](#page-3-0) The statistical C-N bond distance of the *S*-doped model is slightly shortened by 0.01 Å in relative to the S-free model simulated by using AIMD at 300 K (Figure S41, Supporting Information) and the shortened C-N bond can enhance the anchoring ability of N into carbon plane. The statistical Mulliken Charge on Mn and *N* atom, computed by averaging all the charge of Mn during 6 ps AIMD simulation at 300 K (Figure [6b,c\)](#page-8-0). Without *S* doping, the Mulliken charge of M is 5.46 e<sup>−</sup>, and the average Mulliken charge of N is −0.18 e<sup>−</sup>. After *S* doping, the Mulliken charge of Mn increases to 5.89 e<sup>−</sup>, and the average Mulliken charge of N drops to −0.20 e<sup>−</sup> (Figure [6f\)](#page-8-0), verifying the electron-withdraw properties of high-shell coordinated Sdoping. The electron transfer from Mn to N and C atoms in the *S*doped model enhanced the Mn-N bond interaction. In addition, the radial distribution function G(r) of S-H and N-H bond lengths were simulated and the smallest bond distribution is larger than 2 Å, implying that there is no protonation of *S* and *N* atom during 6 ps AIMD simulation at 300 K (Figure S42, Supporting Information). Therefore, high-shell coordinated S-doping can withdraw

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) S-doped model with H3O<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>−</sup> ion after 6 ps equilibrium by using AIMD simulation at 300 K; b) Charge density difference of S-free model. The yellow presents electron density increasing, the cyan present the electron density decreasing; c) Charge density difference of the S-doped model; d) The Mn adhesive energies after the AIMD equilibrium; e) The radial distribution function G(r) of Mn-N bond lengths were simulated in a acidic solution environment approximated by explicit H2O molecules and H3O<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>−</sup> ion; f) The difference in Mulliken charge density between Mn atoms and N atoms in the S-free and S-doped model; Optimized atomic structures for the main process of an ORR: g) Mn-N-C and h) Mn-N-C-S. i) Calculated free energy evolution diagram of ORR following an associative pathway on Mn-N-C and Mn-N-C-S sites under an electrode potential of U = 0 V and 0.67 V. Pink, gray, bronze, red, and purple balls represent the H, N, C, O, and Mn atoms, respectively.

electrons from Mn to N and enhance the Mn-N bond, which can increase the durability of Mn-N4 sites.

To further investigate the superior ORR activities of Mn-N-C-S, we constructed ideal structural models for both the sulfur-free (Mn-N-C) and sulfur-doped (Mn-N-C-S) systems on a graphene substrate (Figure S43, Supporting Information). The proposed ORR mechanism for Mn-N-C-S is illustrated in Figure 6g,h, where both the Mn-N-C-S and Mn-N-C structures serve as active sites that can accommodate three oxygen-containing intermediates (\*OOH, \*O, and \*OH). These intermediates are generated through an associative mechanism involving the sequential addition of molecular H2O and electrons. In comparison to the Mn-N-C catalyst, the manganese in the Mn-N-C-S catalyst forms bonds with the oxygen-containing intermediates that are longer and exhibit optimal strength. This prevents overly strong binding, which could restrict the proton-electron transfer for \*O or \*OH intermediates, thereby mitigating the formation of peroxide intermediates that negatively affect ORR activity and stability.[\[67\]](#page-10-0) The presence of sulfur facilitates the maintenance of optimal bond lengths and binding energies, which effectively reduces the dissociation energy barrier. Additionally, sulfur efficiently captures oxygen-containing intermediates and rapidly cleaves the M-OH bond, ensuring the regeneration of \*O and \*OH intermediates, thus accelerating ORR kinetics by inhibiting peroxide formation.[\[68\]](#page-10-0) The free energies for each elementary step of the ORR were calculated by integrating the enthalpy and harmonic entropy contributions. As depicted in Figure 6i, the free energy changes for all elementary steps at the Mn-N-C-S site become negative under an applied electrode potential of 0.67 V, defining this value as the limiting potential for the ORR at this site. In contrast, the limiting potential for the Mn-N-C site, without sulfur doping, is estimated to be only 0.64 V. This finding indicates that sulfur doping thermodynamically enhances the limiting potential of the ORR on the Mn-N-C-S site relative to that of the

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Mn-N-C site.[14] At zero electrode potential (U = 0 V vs RHE), all the above two models appear the downhill free energy pathways during the ORR process, demonstrating that all electron transfer steps possessed a consistent spontaneous exothermal process.[\[69\]](#page-10-0) Notably, upon increasing the potential to 0.67 V, all steps are energetically favorable for Mn-N-C-S, but the third step (\*O + e<sup>−</sup> + H<sup>+</sup> → \*OH) for the Mn-N-C is uphill and considered to be the endothermic process, suggesting that the formation of \*OH is sluggish. In short, the high-shell S-modified Mn sites in Mn-N-C-S can promote the formation of oxygen-containing intermediates, thereby optimizing the dissociation of the oxygenated intermediate and encouraging four-electron oxygen reduction.[\[70\]](#page-10-0) In addition, we constructed the catalyst configuration when S is located in the second and fourth shells through DFT simulation (Figure S44, Supporting Information). When S is located in the second and fourth shells, the Gibbs free energy of the demetallation reaction of the metal center Mn-N4 is −0.745 and −0.287 eV, respectively, that is, the metal center has a tendency to spontaneously demetallate, which is inconsistent with the stable metal center in our experiment. Therefore, S is located in the third shell.

# **3. Conclusion**

The development of highly efficient and durable Mn-N-C catalysts is critical for advancing platinum group metal-free alternatives in ORR cathodes. This study introduces a novel Mn-N-C-S catalyst synthesized via a sulfur-mediated high-shell coordinated doping strategy, which markedly enhances the intrinsic activity and stability of Mn-N-C catalysts for the ORR. Supported by AIMD simulations and DFT calculations, our experimental results reveal that sulfur doping increases the spin density of Mn-N4 sites, reduces the affinity for oxygen intermediates, and strengthens Mn-N bonds by facilitating electron transfer from Mn to N, thereby improving the durability of Mn-N4 sites. Impressively, the Mn-N-C-S catalyst achieves a record-high half-wave potential of 0.94 V in alkaline conditions, the highest reported to date, and an excellent half-wave potential of 0.80 V in acidic conditions, placing it among the top-performing M-N-C catalysts. Furthermore, the Mn-N-C-S catalyst achieves a record peak power density of 0.82 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in H2-O2 fuel cells and 0.264 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in Zn-air batteries, surpassing the performance of previously reported Mn-based catalysts. The catalyst also demonstrates remarkable stability, with minimal degradation observed after extensive cycling under practical operating conditions. This work not only optimizes Mn-N-C catalysts but also establishes a robust foundation for their application in the cathodes of fuel cells and metal-air batteries, paving the way for future advancements in scalable and sustainable energy conversion technologies.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

Y.L. and H.-R.W. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 22102156 and 22372152) and China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Grant Nos. 2021TQ0295 and 2022M712865).

# **Conflict of Interest**

There are no conflicts to declare.

# **Date Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

durability, electron-withdrawing effects, M-N-C catalysts, oxygen reduction reaction, sulfur-anion coordination

> Received: December 5, 2024 Revised: January 20, 2025 Published online: February 9, 2025

16136829, 2025, 11, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202411678 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] K. Kumar, P. Gairola, M. Lions, N. Ranjbar-Sahraie, M. Mermoux, L. Dubau, A. Zitolo, F. Jaouen, F. Maillard, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 11264.
- [2] K. Kumar, T. Asset, X. Li, Y. Liu, X. Yan, Y. Chen, M. Mermoux, X. Pan, P. Atanassov, F. Maillard, L. Dubau, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 484.
- [3] G. Dey, R. Jana, S. Saifi, R. Kumar, D. Bhattacharyya, A. Datta, A. S. K. Sinha, A. Aijaz, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 19155.
- [4] M. Zhang, H. Li, J. Chen, F. Ma, L. Zhen, Z. Wen, C. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2209726.
- [5] L. Gong, J. Zhu, F. Xia, Y. Zhang, W. Shi, L. Chen, J. Yu, J. Wu, S. Mu, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4012.
- [6] W. Zhang, X. Guo, C. Li, J. Xue, W. Xu, Z. Niu, H. Gu, C. Redshaw, J. Lang, *Carbon Energy* **2023**, *5*, e317.
- [7] X. X. Wang, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 578.
- [8] K. Kumar, L. Dubau, M. Mermoux, J. Li, A. Zitolo, J. Nelayah, F. Jaouen, F. Maillard, *Angew. Chem.* **2020**, *132*, 3261.
- [9] L. Wan, K. Zhao, Y.-C. Wang, N. Wei, P. Zhang, J. Yuan, Z. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 11097.
- [10] E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, M. Lefèvre, N. Larouche, J. Tian, J. Herranz, J.-P. Dodelet, *Nat. Commun.* **2011**, *2*, 416.
- [11] Y. Chen, X. Hua, S. Chen, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2016**, *37*, 1166.
- [12] S. P. Mantry, B. D. Mohapatra, N. Behera, P. Mishra, P. Parhi, K. S. K. Varadwaj, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2019**, *325*, 134947.
- [13] Y. Wang, X. Zhang, S. Xi, X. Xiang, Y. Du, P. Chen, D. Lyu, S. Wang, Z. Q. Tian, P. K. Shen, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 9367.
- [14] L. Guo, S. Hwang, B. Li, F. Yang, M. Wang, M. Chen, X. Yang, S. G. Karakalos, D. A. Cullen, Z. Feng, G. Wang, G. Wu, H. Xu, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 6886.
- [15] G.-L. Li, Z.-F. Lu, X. Wang, S. Cao, C. Hao, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 224.
- [16] N. Helsel, P. Choudhury, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2022**, *126*, 4458.
- [17] P. Nematollahi, E. C. Neyts, *Mol. Catal.* **2024**, *553*, 113745.
- [18] M. Tong, F. Sun, G. Xing, C. Tian, L. Wang, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202314933.
- [19] G. Zhong, L. Zou, X. Chi, Z. Meng, Z. Chen, T. Li, Y. Huang, X. Fu, W. Liao, S. Zheng, Y. Xu, F. Peng, X. Peng, *Carbon Energy* **2024**, *6*, e484.
- [20] Z. Wang, P. Yan, D. Deng, L. Xu, H. Li, *Energy Fuels* **2024**, *38*, 10589.
- [21] J. H. Zagal, M. T. M. Koper, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 14510.
- [22] N. R Samala, I. Grinberg, *ChemSusChem* **2022**, *15*, 202200795.

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[23] T. Patniboon, H. A. Hansen, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 13102.
- [24] G. Passard, D. K. Dogutan, M. Qiu, C. Costentin, D. G. Nocera, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 8671.
- [25] Y. Yang, K. Mao, S. Gao, H. Huang, G. Xia, Z. Lin, P. Jiang, C. Wang, H. Wang, Q. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1801732.
- [26] Z. Zhang, D. Zhou, X. Bao, G. Huang, Q. Tang, B. Huang, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2019**, *777*, 872.
- [27] H. Gao, Y. Wang, W. Li, S. Zhou, S. Song, X. Tian, Y. Yuan, Y. Zhou, J. Zang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 36742.
- [28] J. Li, S. Zou, J. Huang, X. Wu, Y. Lu, X. Liu, B. Song, D. Dong, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2023**, *34*, 107222.
- [29] T. Stracensky, L. Jiao, Q. Sun, E. Liu, F. Yang, S. Zhong, D. A. Cullen, D. J. Myers, A. J. Kropf, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, H. Xu, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 14782.
- [30] J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935.
- [31] M. Chen, X. Li, F. Yang, B. Li, T. Stracensky, S. Karakalos, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, D. Su, G. Wang, G. Wu, H. Xu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 10523.
- [32] G. Luo, E. Zhu, C. Shi, Y. Ren, Y. Lin, X. Yang, M. Xu, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2024**, *350*, 123939.
- [33] X. Wen, C. Yu, B. Yan, X. Zhang, B. Liu, H. Xie, P. K Shen, Z. Qun Tian, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *475*, 146135.
- [34] Z. Chen, H. Niu, J. Ding, H. Liu, P. Chen, Y. Lu, Y. Lu, W. Zuo, L. Han, Y. Guo, S. Hung, Y. Zhai, *Angew. Chem.* **2021**, *133*, 25608.
- [35] Y. Wang, Y. Lai, L. Song, Z. Zhou, J. Liu, Q. Wang, X. Yang, C. Chen, W. Shi, Y. Zheng, M. Rauf, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem.* **2015**, *127*, 10045.
- [36] Y. Tang, T. Chen, W. Guo, S. Chen, Y. Li, J. Song, L. Chang, S. Mu, Y. Zhao, F. Gao, *J. Power Sources* **2017**, *362*, 1.
- [37] Y.-J. Wu, Y.-C. Wang, R.-X. Wang, P.-F. Zhang, X.-D. Yang, H.-J. Yang, J.- T. Li, Y. Zhou, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 14602.
- [38] T. Zhao, S. Wei, S. Niu, Q. Wu, K. Liu, Z. Ma, Y. Huang, H. Wang, Y. Cai, Q. Li, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 13165.
- [39] L. Li, Y. Wen, G. Han, Y. Liu, Y. Song, W. Zhang, J. Sun, L. Du, F. Kong, Y. Ma, Y. Gao, J. Wang, C. Du, G. Yin, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *437*, 135320.
- [40] G. Chao, Y. Zhang, L. Zhang, W. Zong, N. Zhang, T. Xue, W. Fan, T. Liu, Y. Xie, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2022**, *10*, 5930.
- [41] X. Yang, T. Song, T. Su, J. Hu, S. Wu, *Processes* **2022**, *10*, 1705.
- [42] X. Zhang, C. Chen, J. Dong, R. Wang, Q. Wang, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, *Chem-ElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 3946.
- [43] Y. Yang, C. Sun, H. Zhang, S. Ke, H. Liu, M. Dou, F. Wang, *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* **2021**, *2021*, 4452.
- [44] B. Koyuturk, E. M. Farber, F. E. Wagner, T.-P. Fellinger, D. Eisenberg, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2022**, *10*, 19859.
- [45] Z. Wu, Y. Zhang, L. Li, Y. Zhao, Y. Shen, S. Wang, G. Shao, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2020**, *8*, 23248.

- [46] L.-C. Wang, B.-H. Liu, C.-Y. Su, W.-S. Liu, C.-C. Kei, K.-W. Wang, T.-P. Perng, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater* **2018**, *1*, 3673.
- [47] Y. Lin, Y. Zhu, B. Zhang, Y. A. Kim, M. Endo, D. S. Su, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2015**, *3*, 21805.
- [48] G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B.-A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734.
- [49] K. Kim, G. Kim, T. Jeong, W. Lee, Y. Yang, B.-H. Kim, B. Kim, B. Lee, J. Kang, M. Kim, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 34033.
- [50] S. Riegg, A. Reller, A. Loidl, S. G. Ebbinghaus, *Dalton Trans.* **2015**, *44*, 10852.
- [51] T. Kumeda, H. Tajiri, O. Sakata, N. Hoshi, M. Nakamura, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4378.
- [52] H. Daimon, S. Yamazaki, M. Asahi, T. Ioroi, M. Inaba, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 8976.
- [53] H. Cai, B. Chen, X. Zhang, Y. Deng, D. Xiao, D. Ma, C. Shi, *Nano Res.* **2021**, *14*, 122.
- [54] J. Shi, S. Lv, L. Zhang, J. Li, S. Zhou, K. Qu, W. Cai, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 48962.
- [55] D. Malko, A. Kucernak, T. Lopes, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 13285.
- [56] D. Xia, C. Yu, Y. Zhao, Y. Wei, H. Wu, Y. Kang, J. Li, L. Gan, F. Kang, *Chem. Sci.* **2021**, *12*, 11576.
- [57] A. Bonakdarpour, M. Lefevre, R. Yang, F. Jaouen, T. Dahn, J.-P. Dodelet, J. R. Dahn, *Electrochem. Solid-State Lett.* **2008**, *11*, B105.
- [58] J. Fan, M. Chen, Z. Zhao, Z. Zhang, S. Ye, S. Xu, H. Wang, H. Li, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 475.
- [59] P. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y. You, J. Yuan, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *12*, 7797.
- [60] M. Inaba, A. W. Jensen, G. W. Sievers, M. Escudero-Escribano, A. Zana, M. Arenz, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 988.
- [61] C. Li, Z. Yu, H. Liu, M. Xiong, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2019**, *371*, 433.
- [62] G. Bae, M. W. Chung, S. G. Ji, F. Jaouen, C. H. Choi, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 8485.
- [63] E. Luo, H. Zhang, X. Wang, L. Gao, L. Gong, T. Zhao, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 12469.
- [64] C. H. Choi, H.-K. Lim, M. W. Chung, G. Chon, N. Ranjbar Sahraie, A. Altin, M.-T. Sougrati, L. Stievano, H. S. Oh, E. S. Park, F. Luo, P. Strasser, G. Draži´c, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, H. Kim, F. Jaouen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 3176.
- [65] M. J. Abraham, T. Murtola, R. Schulz, S. Páll, J. C. Smith, B. Hess, E. Lindahl, *SoftwareX* **2015**, *1–2*, 19.
- [66] J. VandeVondele, M. Krack, F. Mohamed, M. Parrinello, T. Chassaing, J. Hutter, *Comput. Phys. Commun.* **2005**, *167*, 103.
- [67] Y. Wang, Y.-J. Tang, K. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 14115.
- [68] S. Sun, Y. Sun, Y. Zhou, J. Shen, D. Mandler, R. Neumann, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 8106.
- [69] G. Han, X. Zhang, W. Liu, Q. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Cheng, T. Yao, L. Gu, C. Du, Y. Gao, G. Yin, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6335.
- [70] H. Liu, L. Jiang, J. Khan, X. Wang, J. Xiao, H. Zhang, H. Xie, L. Li, S. Wang, L. Han, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202214988.