---
source: Li 等 - 2018 - Towards High‐Performance Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Inducing Atomic‐Level Reconstruction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 30.460s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:14:23.205259Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/chem.201800937 Full Paper

## & Electrocatalysts

# Towards High-Performance Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction: Inducing Atomic-Level Reconstruction of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> Site for Atomically Dispersed Fe/N-Doped Hierarchically Porous Carbon

Hanyu Li,[a, b] Zhengping Zhang,[a, b] Meiling Dou,\*[a, b] and [Feng Wang](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7901-3693)\*[a, b]

Abstract: A rational and effective strategy for the synthesis of a high-performance non-precious metal electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) was developed by inducing reconstruction of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> site on pig-bone-derived nitrogendoped hierarchically porous carbon. The resultant Fe/Ndoped carbon electrocatalyst possessed abundant atomically dispersed non-planar Fe-N4 ORR active sites, with absolute presence of active D1 (FeII-N4) and D3 (N-FeII-N2+2) sites, as well as large specific surface area and three-dimensional porous structure with hierarchical micro-/meso-/macro-pore distribution, which increased the utilization of active sites and promoted mass transport of ORR reactants. This resulted in a remarkably superior ORR activity with half-wave potential of 0.87 V (20 mV higher than Pt/C) and kinetic current density of 10.9 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> at 0.85 V (2.3-fold of Pt/C) in alkaline electrolyte. This methodology provides a route for atomiclevel design of high-performance ORR electrocatalyst.

### Introduction

The substitution of conventional fossil fuel engines with clean and efficient fuel cells is considered a promising strategy to address the current global energy and environmental issues.[1] The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) at the cathode, which is inherently six orders of magnitude more sluggish compared with the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction, is the bottleneck for improving the energy transfer efficiency of fuel cells.[2, 3] The state-of-the-art fuel cells still rely on the scarce and precious platinum (Pt)-based electrocatalysts to catalyse the ORR, which seriously hinders the large-scale implementation of fuel cells.[4] Great efforts have been devoted to the development of lowcost and high-performance non-precious metal electrocatalysts (NPMCs) for ORR, including transition metal-nitrogen co-doped carbon (TM-N-C, TM: Fe, Co, Cu, Ni, etc.), metal oxide, metal sulfide and carbide.[5–8] Among them, the TM-N-C electrocatalysts are regarded as one kind of the most promising NPMCs for ORR, due to their relatively high activity and durability.[9] The deliberate investigation of TM-N-C electrocatalysts can be traced back to 1964 when Jasinski found that cobalt phthalocyanine exhibited ORR activity in alkaline electrolyte.[10] Since then the metal-macrocycle compounds (i.e., iron phthalocyanine and iron porphyrin), with unique TM-N<sup>x</sup> moieties, have been extensively investigated as the precursors to synthesize the TM-N-C electrocatalysts.[11, 12] Unfortunately, the pyrolysis of metal-macrocycle compounds usually results in an uncontrolled agglomeration of metal-based nanoparticles (NPs) with limited number of active TM-N<sup>x</sup> moieties and an unfavourable porous structure that hinders the mass transport of ORR reactants, leading to an inferior ORR activity.[13, 14] Therefore, the design and synthesis of high-performance TM-N-C electrocatalyst still remains a big challenge.

One of the key strategies to improve the ORR activity of TM-N-C electrocatalyst is to increase the density of ORR active sites by realizing highly dispersed or even atomically dispersed TM-N<sup>x</sup> moieties.[15] The atomic-level TM-N<sup>x</sup> moieties have been identified by several advanced characteristic techniques (e.g., X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS),[16] 57Fe Mçssbauer spectroscopy,[17] and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectroscopy (TOF-SIMS)).[18] In particular, 57Fe Mçssbauer spectroscopy is effective to identify the Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties, with similar structure but different oxidation and/or spin states and analyse the atomic-level reconstruction of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties induced by the synthesis conditions.[19] By means of 57Fe Mçssbauer spectroscopy, Dodelet et al. revealed that FeII-N4 moieties (nonplanar D1 site) and N-FeII-N2+<sup>2</sup> moieties (D3 site), with their ferrous ion in low and high spin state, respectively, are considered to be catalytically more active for ORR than FeII-N4 moieties (D2 sites) and other Fe-based species (e.g., Fe, Fe3C, and FexN).[20] The D3 site with a distorted local structure in which the Fe atom is off-centre with respect to the planar FeII-N2+<sup>2</sup> approaching to the axial N, is regarded to possess exceptional intrinsic activity and is responsible for the high ORR activity of

[b] H. Li, Prof. Z. Zhang, Prof. M. Dou, Prof. F. Wang Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Soft Matter Science and Engineering, Beijing University of Chemical Technology Beijing 100029 (China)

Supporting information and the ORCID identification number for the author of this article can be found under: [https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201800937.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201800937)

Chem. Eur. J. 2018, 24, 1 – 10 1 -

<sup>[</sup>a] H. Li, Prof. Z. Zhang, Prof. M. Dou, Prof. F. Wang State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering Laboratory of Electrochemical Process and Technology for Materials Beijing University of Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029 (China) E-mail: douml@mail.buct.edu.cn wangf@mail.buct.edu.cn

current Fe-N-C electrocatalysts.[21, 22] However, selective highpercentage yield of D1 and D3 sites for Fe-N-C remains a great challenge, most probably due to the ambiguous atomic-level structure change of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties under the conventional pyrolysis. In this regard, the synthesis of well-designed porous carbon supports, with a large number of micropores, can be considered an effective way to enhance the ORR activity through providing the large specific surface area (SSA) to increase the anchor sites for Fe-N4 moieties, and to prevent the formation of large metal-based NPs during the pyrolysis process.[23] In addition, the existence of appropriate mesopores and macropores in the porous carbon supports is also desirable, to facilitate the sufficient exposure of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties and promote the fast transport of ORR reactants. Based on these principles, it is evident that adopting a hierarchically porous carbon (HPC) support, with abundant micropores and a proper distribution of meso-/macro-pores, could enhance the ORR activity of Fe-N-C electrocatalysts. Most importantly, the appropriate post-treatment (e.g., acid-washing and second heattreatment) remains a possibility for tuning the structures of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties on an atomic-level to enhance the catalytic activity of Fe-N-C electrocatalysts.

Recently, a variety of biomass materials (e.g., pig bone,[24] fish scale,[25] barley straw,[26] and bamboo)[27] have been employed as precursors to synthesize HPCs, due to their versatile microstructures, rich heteroatom elements and sustainable resource. Among them, animal bones that possess a unique three dimensional (3D) ordered microstructure, with apatite minerals being sandwiched among the collagen fibrils, are regarded as the promising precursors for the synthesis of HPCs.[28] The collagen fibrils in animal bones are attractive as the carbon precursors, with nitrogen as dopant, to form Ndoped carbon materials, while the apatite minerals can act as a hard template to control the porous structure, resulting in a 3D hierarchically porous carbon network with rich N-doping and large SSA.

Herein, we developed a rational and effective strategy for the synthesis of a highly efficient iron and nitrogen co-doped 3D hierarchically porous carbon electrocatalyst (Fe-N-HPC-AH) by adsorbing 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-phenyl)-porphyrin iron(III) chloride (FeTPPCl) onto pig-bone-derived HPC, followed by pyrolysis, acid-washing and second heat-treatment. The pigbone-derived HPC possessed a large SSA and a 3D hierarchically porous structure with well-defined micro-/meso-/macro-pore size distribution. The abundant micropores in HPC can adsorb FeTPPCl well, and subsequently confine the growth of FeTPPCl decomposition products during the pyrolysis process to generate atomically dispersed Fe-N<sup>x</sup> catalytically active sites, embedded in carbon frameworks. 57Fe Mçssbauer spectroscopy analysis indicated that the acid-washing and second heat-treatment process can induce an atomic-level reconstruction of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties and promote the formation of a high-percentage of active Fe-N<sup>x</sup> sites. The resultant Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst possessed an absolute presence of non-planar D1 and D3 sites that are considered as the primary ORR active sites. Furthermore, the preserved well-defined meso-/macro-pores for Fe-N-HPC-AH from HPC can effectively promote the mass transport of ORR reactants. As a result, the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst exhibited a significantly improved ORR performance with remarkable activity, outstanding electrochemical durability and superior methanol tolerance—even outperforming the commercial Pt/C (20 wt.% Pt, Johnson Matthey).

### Results and Discussion

#### Characterization of Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst

Scheme 1 illustrated the synthetic process of the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst. Firstly, HPC was synthesized by pre-carbonizing the pig bone, followed by KOH-activation and acid-washing to remove the inorganic hydroxyapatite crystals. Subsequently,

Scheme 1. Schematic representation of the synthetic process for Fe-N-HPC-AH.

the as-prepared HPC was used to adsorb FeTPPCl to form the FeTPPCl-adsorbed-HPC composite through electrostatic attraction and p–p interactions.[11] The successful adsorption of FeTPPCl onto HPC was confirmed by the FTIR spectrum, with obvious peaks at 1001 and 1350 cm-<sup>1</sup> (Figure S1 in Supporting Information) corresponding well to the Fe-N and C=N vibrations of FeTPPCl, respectively.[29] The maximum adsorption quantity of FeTPPCl by 1 mg of HPC was determined as 0.186 mg as indicated by the UV analysis (Figure S1). Then, the obtained FeTPPCl-adsorbed-HPC was pyrolyzed at 8008C for 2 h in an Ar atmosphere, followed by acid-washing and a second heat-treatment to generate the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst, in which FeTPPCl was completely decomposed, as indicated by the disappearance of Fe-N and C=N characteristic peaks of FeTPPCl (Figure S1). The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis revealed that the acid-washing treatment removed the unstable Fe-based species for Fe-N-HPC-AH (Figure S2).

The morphologies of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH were characterized by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The typical SEM and TEM images (Figure 1 a–d) showed that the as-prepared

**Figure 1.** Typical SEM and TEM images of: a, c) HPC and b, d) Fe-N-HPC-AH. e) HAADF-STEM and element mapping images of C, N, and Fe of Fe-N-HPC-AH. f) Magnified HAADF-STEM images of Fe-N-HPC-AH.

HPC exhibited a 3D hierarchically porous structure with interconnected mesopores (2-50 nm) and macropores (50-500 nm). After adsorption and co-pyrolysis with FeTPPCI, followed by acid-washing and second heat-treatment, the resultant Fe-N-HPC-AH still retained the 3D hierarchically porous frameworks characteristic of HPC (Figure 1 c) and no obvious Fe-based NPs was observed (Figure 1 d). The scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) elemental mapping images showed that the Fe and N elements were uniformly distributed on the carbon frameworks (Figure 1e), indicating a possibility for formatting a uniform distribution of Fe-N, moieties due to the absorption and pyrolysis of FeTPPCI on HPC followed by posttreatment. More importantly, many isolated single atomic sites were identified by using High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM, Figure 1 f), indicating the formation of atomically dispersed  $Fe-N_x$ moieties embedded in the carbon frameworks, which is favourable for increasing the density of active sites to enhance the catalytic activity and stability.[30]

The powder XRD patterns of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH (Figure 2a) showed the broad (0 0 2) and (1 0 0) peaks, corresponding to the partially crystalline carbon phase, without any peaks assigned to Fe-based crystalline phases (e.g., Fe, Fe<sub>3</sub>C, Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>). The Raman spectra of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH indicated the existence of D-line (1350 cm<sup>-1</sup>), G-line (1590 cm<sup>-1</sup>), D''-line (1500 cm<sup>-1</sup>), and I-line (1180 cm<sup>-1</sup>), which are ascribed to the lattice disorder, sp<sup>2</sup>-hybrid carbon vibration, stacking defects, and N-doped defects, respectively (Figure 2 b). The peak intensity ratio of D-line to G-line ( $I_D/I_G$ ) of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH was determined as 0.85 and 0.93, respectively, implying a

higher percentage of defects in Fe-N-HPC-AH compared to HPC, probably due to the formation of amorphous carbon generated from the decomposition of FeTPPCI. Compared with Fe-N-HPC (0.97), after acid-washing and second heat-treatment, the intensity ratio of  $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$  decreased for Fe-N-HPC-A (0.93) and Fe-N-HPC-AH (0.93), implying the amorphous species were probably partially removed by the post treatment (Figure S3).

To investigate the porous structure of HPC and Fe-N-HPC, the nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherm measurements were conducted. The adsorption-desorption isotherms (Figure 2c) of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH showed an obvious uptake at low relative pressure  $(P/P_0 < 0.1)$  and a pronounced hysteresis loop at high relative pressure ( $P/P_0 > 0.4$ ), indicating the existence of hierarchically porous structure. The SSA of HPC was determined as 2668 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, with a high percentage of micropore SSA (1267  $m^2g^{-1}$ ,  $S_{micro}\%$ : 47.5). After the pyrolysis of FeTPPCI-adsorbed HPC followed by acid-washing and posttreatment, the SSA of obtained Fe-N-HPC-AH still maintained as high as  $1044 \text{ m}^2\text{g}^{-1}$ , with relatively high  $S_{\text{micro}}$  of 731  $\text{m}^2\text{g}^{-1}$ (S<sub>micro</sub>%: 70.0). Considering that the active sites are likely located inside or around micropores of carbon-based electrocatalysts, the richer the micropores, the higher the density of active sites in the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst is. [18] The density functional theory (DFT) pore size distribution analysis (Figure 2d) indicated a well-defined hierarchical macro-/meso-/ micro-pore distribution with the pore diameter primarily centred at 1-2 and 2-6 nm for Fe-N-HPC-AH. It is evident that the pyrolysis of FeTPPCI could be confined in relatively small pores of HPC, to promote the formation of atomically dispersed Fe-N<sub>x</sub> moieties by preventing the generation of large Fe-based NPs, as indicated by STEM, XRD and X-ray photoelectron spectrum (XPS) analyses. The atomically dispersed Fe-N<sub>x</sub> moieties, along with the preserved meso-/macro-pores in Fe-N-HPC-AH, for facilitating the mass transport of ORR reactants are favourable for the improvement of ORR activity.

The surface compositions and chemical states of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH were investigated by XPS measurements. The XPS survey spectrum of HPC showed the C1s, N1s, and O1s peaks, with total N content of 1.6 at.% derived from the carbonization of collagen fibrils in pig bone. The XPS survey spectrum of Fe-N-HPC-AH displayed the presence of C (86.9 at.%), N (1.1 at.%), and O (12 at.%), but the Fe element was hardly detected (Table S1 and Figure S4 in Supporting Information). The inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES, Table S2) analysis showed that the content of Ca and P elements was negligible, indicating the almost complete removal of apatite minerals in pig bone during the acid-washing process. The high-resolution C 1s spectrum of Fe-N-HPC-AH was deconvoluted into four peaks corresponding to the sp<sup>2</sup> C (285 eV), C-N (286.0 eV), C-O (287.2 eV) and O-C=O (289.5 eV) species, respectively (Figure 2e). Compared with HPC, the O-C=O peak of Fe-N-HPC-AH became more significant, with a higher content of 10.8% (4.9% for HPC) (Table S1), suggesting the formation of more defects for Fe-N-HPC-AH, consistent with the Raman analysis. The high-resolution N 1s spectra indicated that N was primarily in the form of pyrrolic N and graph-

Figure 2. a) XRD patterns, and b) Raman spectra of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH. c) Nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms and d) corresponding DFT pore size distributions of HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH. High-resolution XPS spectra of: e) C 1s and f) N 1s for HPC and Fe-N-HPC-AH.

itic N for HPC, and pyridinic N and graphitic N for Fe-N-HPC-AH (Figure 2 f). The disappearance of pyrrolic N for Fe-N-HPC-AH was probably attributed to the instability of pyrrolic N under the high-temperature heat-treatment.[32] The pyridinic N and graphitic N have been proved to be beneficial to the ORR reactivity by promoting the oxygen adsorption, through constructing the relatively positive charge on adjacent carbon atoms.[9, 33]

#### Electrochemical measurement of ORR activity

The ORR performance of Fe-N-HPC, Fe-N-HPC-A, Fe-N-HPC-AH, and the commercial Pt/C electrocatalysts were investigated by recording linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH electrolyte (Figure 3 a). As expected, the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst exhibited a superior ORR activity, with the onset potential (Eonset) and half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.97 V and 0.87 V (Figure 3 b), respectively, which was 10 and 20 mV higher than those of Fe-N-HPC, 23 and 30 mV higher than those of Fe-N-HPC-A, respectively. This result revealed that the second heat-treatment played an important role in the improvement of ORR activity. The E1/2 of Fe-N-HPC-AH was also rather higher than those of Fe-N-BP (BP-2000 support, 20.85 V), Fe-N-XC (Vulcan XC-7 support, 0.74 V) (Figure S5) and even the commercial Pt/C (0.85 V), most probably due to its unique 3D hierarchically porous structure and large SSA. The kinetic current density (Jk) of Fe-N-HPC-AH was calculated to be 10.9 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> at 0.85 V, which was 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3-fold of the corresponding values of Fe-N-HPC (5.23 mA cm-2 ), Fe-N-HPC-A (4.90 mA cm-2 ) and Pt/C (4.71 mA cm-2 ), respectively. Further rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) measurements indicated that Fe-N-HPC-AH also possessed a high transferred electron number (>3.9, higher than those of Fe-N-HPC and Fe-N-HPC-A and similar with the commercial Pt/C) with a very low percentage (<5%) of peroxide yield (% HO2 -) in the whole measured potential range, suggesting that the ORR catalysed by Fe-N-HPC-AH progressed through an almost ideal 4-electron path (Figure 3 c). As shown in Figure 3 d, the Fe-N-HPC-AH and Pt/C electrocatalysts both presented two different Tafel slope zones. The slopes of the Tafel plots are close to 60 mV dec-<sup>1</sup> in the low overpotential zone (0.9–1.0 V) for Fe-N-HPC-AH and Pt/C, suggesting that the rate-determining step

Figure 3. a) LSV curves of Fe-N-HPC, Fe-N-HPC-A, Fe-N-HPC-AH and the commercial Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH with a scan rate of 5 mV s-<sup>1</sup> and rotation rate of 1600 rpm. b) Comparison of E1/2 and J<sup>k</sup> at 0.85 V for the above samples. c) The electron transfer number and peroxide percentage calculated from the corresponding RRDE curves (scan rate: 5 mV s-, ring potential: 1.5 V). d) Tafel plots derived from the corresponding LSV data of (a). e) LSV curves of Fe-N-HPC-AH and the commercial Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH before and after 3000 cycles between 0.6 and 1.1 V. f) LSV curves of Fe-N-HPC-AH and the commercial Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH with or without 1m methanol.

for ORR is probable a pseudo two-electron reaction.[34–36] The Fe-N-HPC-AH exhibited a small Tafel slope of 51 mV dec-<sup>1</sup> (54, 54, and 65 mV dec-<sup>1</sup> for Fe-N-HPC, Fe-N-HPC-A, and Pt/C, respectively), indicating a fast kinetic process for ORR.[37] The second zone appears at the high overpotential zone (0.75– 0.85 V). For the Pt/C electrocatalyst, the Tafel slope changed from 65 mV dec-<sup>1</sup> in the low overpotential zone to 122 mV dec-<sup>1</sup> in the high overpotential zone, indicating the reaction rate may be dominated by the transfer of the first electron to the oxygen molecule.[38] For the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst, the increase of Tafel slope (from 51 to 136 mV dec-1 ) is consistent with previous reports,[39, 40] which might be caused by a change in the ORR mechanism from Temkin to Langmuir adsorption as the overpotential increases.

The electrochemical stability of Fe-N-HPC-AH was also investigated by the potential cycling between 0.6 and 1.1 V, with a scan rate of 100 mV s-1 , in N2-saturated 0.1m KOH electrolyte. As shown in Figure 3 e, Fe-N-HPC-AH exhibited an excellent electrochemical stability with only 3 mV negative shift of E1/2 after 3000 cycles. In contrast, the commercial Pt/C encountered a 27 mV negative shift of E1/2 after the identical test, indicating a severe degradation of ORR activity. Additionally, Fe-N-HPC-AH possessed superior methanol tolerance, with negligible change in the LSV curves upon the addition of 1m methanol in 0.1m KOH, whereas a remarkably increased anode current was detected for Pt/C under identical conditions (Figure 3 f).

#### Active site formation of Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst

To better elucidate the improved ORR activity, the correlation between the ORR activity and N configuration, as determined by XPS of Fe-N-HPC, Fe-N-HPC-A and Fe-N-HPC-AH, was investigated (Figure 4 a,b). Compared with Fe-N-HPC (total N content of 4.3 at.%), the Fe-N-HPC-A possessed a lower total N content of 3.2 at.%, with almost unchanged pyridinic N and pyrrolic N along with the disappearance of oxidized N after acid-washing (Table S1 in Supporting Information). The subsequent heat-treatment led to the total decomposition of unsta-

Figure 4. a) High-resolution N 1s spectra and b) content of different N configuration of Fe-N-HPC, Fe-N-HPC-A and Fe-N-HPC-AH. c) Schematic illustration of Fe and nitrogen atoms doped into graphitic plane at different location.

ble five ring pyrrolic N and formation of graphitic N with most preserved pyridinic N for Fe-N-HPC-AH, resulting in a decrease of total N content (1.1 at.%). Despite the rather low total N content, the Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst possessed the highest ORR activity among all these samples. This result implied that the N configuration in the electrocatalyst played a more critical role in the improvement of ORR activity than the total N content, consistent with previous reports.[9, 33, 41] Based on the existence of isolated single Fe atomic sites, as identified by HAADF-STEM image, combined with the different configuration of pyridinic N and graphitic N, we do speculate that the pyridinic N offers coordination sites to Fe atoms to form the Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties for increasing the density of active sites. Meanwhile, the graphitic N can tailor the electronic structure of adjacent carbon atoms to generate a non-uniform electron distribution.[42] This distinct N configuration, with absolute presence of pyridinic N and graphitic N, could contribute to the improvement of ORR activity by facilitating the adsorption of oxygen molecule and subsequently breaking of O=O bond.

To verify the formation of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties based on the XPS analysis, the local and electronic structure of Fe-N-HPC-AH was investigated by XAFS measurement. Figure 5 showed the Fe Kedge X-ray absorption near edge spectra (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of Fe-N-HPC-AH, and the FeTPPCl and Fe foil references. Notably, the XANES spectrum of Fe-N-HPC-AH was similar to that of FeTPPCl, but different from that of Fe foil, implying that the Fe-based species in Fe-N-HPC-AH was primarily in the form of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties.[43] Compared with FeTPPCl, a new pre-edge feature at approximately 7118 eV was detected (XANES spectrum, Figure 5 a) and the peak at 1.66 assigned to Fe-N<sup>x</sup> coordination with axially positioned Clin FeTPPCl (EXAFS spectrum, Figure 5 b), negatively shifted to 1.47 for Fe-N-C-HPC-AH, indicating the removal of axial Cl from FeTPPCl, and the probable formation of a square planar symmetry structured Fe-N4 moiety during the pyrolysis process.[22, 44] It was worth noting that no obvious peak corresponding to Fe-Fe coordination was detected for Fe-N-HPC-AH, further confirming the forma-

Figure 5. a) Fe K-edge XANES spectra and b) Fourier transforms of k<sup>2</sup> -weighted EXAFS spectra of Fe-N-HPC-AH, FeTPPCl and Fe foil.

2018 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

tion of atomically dispersed Fe-N4 moieties embedded in the carbon frameworks without any Fe-based NPs.

To further get insight into the atomic-level structure of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> moieties in the electrocatalyst, 57Fe Mçssbauer spectroscopy was carried out (Figure 6). The 57Fe Mçssbauer spectrum of Fe-

Figure 6. 57Fe Mçssbauer spectra and the relative absorption areas for different Fe species of Fe-N-HPC, Fe-N-HPC-A and Fe-N-HPC-AH.

N-HPC was deconvoluted into singlet, sextet and doublet peaks, which are attributed to the inorganic Fe, Fe3C phases and the porphyrin-type Fe-N4 moiety corresponding to D3 site, respectively.[21, 22] The content of the D3 site was determined as 58.7%, which is higher than that of Fe (9.5%) and Fe3C (31.8%). For Fe-N-HPC-A, the 57Fe Mçssbauer spectrum showed two primary doublet peaks assigned to the D1 site (small quadrupole splitting, nonplanar FeII-N4 moieties) and D2 site (large quadrupole splitting, planar FeII-N4 moieties), respectively, along with a weak Fe single peak (Fe: 4.6%). It is reported that partial D3 site is unstable under acidic conditions, in which the fifth coordinating N tends to be protonated upon contact with acid.[45] This result implied that the D3 site in Fe-N-HPC was probably transformed into D1 and D2 sites for Fe-N-HPC-A during the acid-washing process. Empirically, the D2 site is considered to contribute little to ORR activity due to the fully filled 3dz<sup>2</sup> orbital of the FeII ion that prevents the end-on adsorption and subsequent reduction of oxygen molecule.[20] It may explain the slightly inferior or almost unchanged ORR activity for Fe-N-HPC-A as compared with Fe-N-HPC. Notably, the 57Fe Mçssbauer spectrum of Fe-N-HPC-AH showed the absolute presence of D1 and D3 sites. Compared with Fe-N-HPC-A, the proportion of D1 site was almost identical, but the D2 site vanished with a newly formed D3 site. It revealed that the second heat-treatment was an effective way to promote the formation of D1 and D3 sites by inducing atomic-level reconstruction of Fe-N4 site. Previous reports have indicated that both D1 and D3 sites are identified as the decent ORR active sites for the Fe-N-C electrocatalyst, in which the 3dz<sup>2</sup> orbital of the FeII ion was unoccupied (D1 site) or singly-occupied (D3 site) to be available for the end-on adsorption of oxygen molecule. The content of the D3 site was determined as high as 79.7%, rather higher than that of D1 site (20.3 %). A high percentage of D3 site is proved to be favourable for the improvement of ORR activity.[12, 21] Besides, no obvious peak corresponding to the Fe-based crystalline phases (e.g., Fe and Fe3C) and less-active D2 site were detected, suggesting the predominant presence of active D1 and D3 sites for Fe-N-HPC-AH. Although intensive investigations have shown that post-treatment (i.e., the acid-washing and second heat-treatment) can lead to an improvement of ORR activity,[46–48] the original reason for the enhanced activity is still ambiguous. In this work, we speculate that the significantly improved ORR activity is primarily attributed to the atomic-level reconstruction of Fe-N4 moieties with formation of absolute presence D1 and D3 sites, induced by the acid-washing and second heat-treatment. Besides, the atomically dispersed Fe-N4 moieties, without any Fe-based NPs, the distinct N configuration with pyridinic N and graphitic N, and the sufficient accessibility of active sites with ORR reactants benefited from the 3D hierarchically porous structure also contribute to the improvement of ORR activity.

#### Conclusions

In summary, a rational and effective strategy for the synthesis of a high-performance Fe-N-HPC-AH electrocatalyst was developed by adsorbing FeTPPCl onto pig-bone-derived HPC, followed by pyrolysis, acid-washing and second heat-treatment. The pig-bone-derived HPC possessed a large SSA and 3D hierarchically porous structure with abundant micropores and a proper distribution of meso-/macro-pores. The abundant micropores in HPC adsorbed FeTPPCl well and subsequently confined the growth of FeTPPCl decomposition products during the pyrolysis process, and the acid-washing treatment removed most unstable Fe-based NPs, which facilitated the formation of atomically dispersed Fe-N4 catalytically active sites embedded in HPC frameworks for Fe-N-HPC-AH. The preserved well-defined 3D hierarchically porous structure from HPC effectively promoted the high-flow transport of ORR reactants. Most importantly, the acid-washing and second heat-treatment ensured the resultant Fe-N-HPC-AH had predominant ORR active non-planar D1 and D3 sites, by inducing an atomic-level reconstruction of Fe-N4 moieties. As a result, Fe-N-HPC-AH exhibited a remarkably higher ORR activity with Eonset of 0.97 V, E1/2 of 0.870 V and J<sup>k</sup> of 10.9 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> at 0.85 V, superior electrochemical stability and methanol tolerance in comparison with the commercial Pt/C in alkaline electrolyte. These features make the Fe-N-HPC-AH a promising NPMC to replace the Pt-

based electrocatalysts in fuel cells and metal-air batteries. Also, this methodology opens a new avenue for the rational design and synthesis of highly active and durable Fe-N-C electrocatalyst towards ORR by tailoring the Fe-N<sup>x</sup> active site at the atomic level.

## Experimental Section

#### Synthesis of hierarchically porous carbon

Prior to the carbonization, the pig shinbone (purchased from food market in Beijing) was washed in boiling water to extract oils and fats, dehydrated in a vacuum oven at 1208C for 12 h, and ground into powder. Then, the bone powder was pre-carbonized at 4508C for 3 h in an Ar atmosphere with the heating rate of 58Cmin-1 . The pre-carbonized product was mixed with KOH with a weight ratio of 1:1 and ground for 0.5 h. Afterwards, the mixture was transferred into a tubular furnace and carbonized at 8008C (heating rate: 2.58Cmin-) for 1 h in an Ar atmosphere. After cooling, the obtained product was washed with 2m HCl, rinsed with distilled water, and dried at 1208C, generating the hierarchically porous carbon (denoted as HPC) material.

#### Synthesis of iron and nitrogen co-doped hierarchically porous carbon

In a typical synthesis, the as-prepared HPC (50 mg) was ultrasonically dispersed in 50 mL of dichloromethane for 0.5 h. Then, 9.3 mg of 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-phenyl)-porphyrin iron(III) chloride (FeTPPCl) was added into the above solution under stirring at room temperature, and the solvent was evaporated under rotation. The obtained product was pyrolyzed at 8008C (heating rate: 5 8Cmin-1 ) for 2 h in an Ar atmosphere, followed by acid-washing with 4m HCl and second heat-treatment at 8008C for 2 h in an Ar atmosphere to generate iron and nitrogen co-doped hierarchically porous carbon (denoted as Fe-N-HPC-AH) electrocatalyst. For comparison, the electrocatalysts before and after acid-washing were prepared, denoted as Fe-N-HPC and Fe-N-HPC-A, respectively. Additionally, electrocatalysts using BP-2000 and Vulcan XC-72 as the carbon supports were also prepared in the similar procedure, denoted as Fe-N-BP and Fe-N-XC, respectively.

### Material characterization

The XRD patterns of the samples were obtained using a Rigaku D/ max-2500 diffractometer equipped with CuK<sup>a</sup> source radiation at 30 KV and 40 mA. The morphologies of the samples were characterized by FE-SEM (JSM-6701, JEOL) and TEM (JSM-2100, JEOL). HAADF-STEM images were obtained using a JEOL JEM-ARM200F microscope. The ICP-AES instrument (SPS 7800) was used to determine the metal content of electrocatalysts. The pore structure was characterized by nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms on a Quantachrome AUTOSORB-SI instrument. Raman spectra were profiled with a LabRam HR800 confocal microscope with a visible laser (l=532 nm) at room temperature. XPS was recorded with the Thermo Fisher Scientific ESCALAB 250 instrument to determine the surface element compositions and chemical states of the samples. FTIR and UV spectroscopy measurements were carried out using Nicolet 8700/Continuum XL and UV-2450 instruments, respectively. XAFS spectra (Fe K-edge) were performed on the beamline 1W1B station of Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility. The Fe K-edge XANES were recorded in a fluorescence mode with Fe foil as reference, and the acquired EXAFS data were extracted and processed according to standard procedures using the ATHENA module implemented in the IFEFFIT software packages. 57Fe Mçssbauer spectroscopy measurement was conducted at room temperature using a Topologic 500 A spectrometer with a proportional counter and a radioactive source (moving 57Co (Rh) in a constant acceleration mode). All spectral analyses were conducted assuming a Lorentzian lineshape for computer folding and fitting.

#### Electrochemical measurements

Electrochemical experiments were performed with an ALS/DY2300 workstation equipped with three-electrode system at room temperature. Electrocatalyst-coated RRDE was used as the working electrode, a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) and a Pt wire as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. All potentials in this work were calibrated with respect to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). To prepare the working electrode, the RRDE was first polished with a sequence of 1.0, 0.5 and 0.05 mm alumina suspension to afford a mirror surface. Then, 10 mL of electrocatalyst ink (ultrasonicating 5 mg of NPMCs with 1.0 mL of ethanol and 50 mL of Nafion (Dupont, 5 wt.%) for 0.5 h) was pipetted onto the glassy carbon electrode (GCE, 0.1256 cm2 ), resulting in an electrocatalyst loading of 380 mgcat cm-. The commercial Pt/C electrode was also prepared in the similar procedure for comparison with the Pt loading of 76 mgpt cm-2 .

### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by National Natural Science Funds of China (No. 51432003 and 51732002).

### Conflict of interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: atomic-level reconstruction · electrocatalysts · hierarchically porous structures · oxygen reduction reaction · pig bone

- [1] I. E. L. Stephens, J. Rossmeisl, I. Chorkendorff, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aal3303) 2016, 354[, 1378 –](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aal3303) [1379.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aal3303)
- [2] H. Zhang, H. Osgood, X. Xie, Y. Shao, G. Wu, [Nano Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.11.033) 2017, 31, [331 – 350.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.11.033)
- [3] Z. Tang, W. Wu, K. Wang, [Catalysts](https://doi.org/10.3390/catal8020065) 2018, 8, 65.
- [4] Z. Xia, L. An, P. Chen, D. Xia, [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201600458) 2016, 6, 1600458.
- [5] G. A. Ferrero, K. Preuss, A. Marinovic, A. B. Jorge, N. Mansor, D. J. Brett, A. B. Fuertes, M. Sevilla, M. M. Titirici, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b01247) 2016, 10[, 5922 – 5932.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b01247)
- [6] Q. Jia, S. Ghoshal, J. Li, W. Liang, G. Meng, H. Che, S. Zhang, Z.-F. Ma, S. Mukerjee, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b02378) 2017, 139, 7893 – 7903.
- [7] K. Cho, S. H. Han, M. P. Suh, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201607271) 2016, 55, 15301 [15305](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201607271); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201607271) 2016, 128[, 15527 – 15531.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201607271)
- [8] J. Guo, Z. Mao, X. Yan, R. Su, P. Guan, B. Xu, X. Zhang, G. Qin, S. J. Pennycook, [Nano Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.08.045) 2016, 28, 261 – 268.
- [9] H. Zhang, S. Hwang, M. Wang, Z. Feng, S. Karakalos, L. Luo, Z. Qiao, X. Xie, C. Wang, D. Su, Y. Shao, G. Wu, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514) 2017, 139, 14143 – [14149](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514).
- [10] R. Jasinski, [Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/2011212a0) 1964, 201, 1212.
- [11] J.-Y. Gu, Z.-F. Cai, D. Wang, L.-J. Wan, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b04281) 2016, 10[, 8746 8750.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b04281)
- [12] S. Lee, D.-H. Kwak, S.-B. Han, Y.-W. Lee, J.-Y. Lee, I.-A. Choi, H.-S. Park, J.- Y. Park, K.-W. Park, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02721) 2016, 6[, 5095 – 5102.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02721)
- [13] B. Bayatsarmadi, Y. Zheng, A. Vasileff, S.-Z. Qiao, [Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201700191) 2017, 13, [1700191](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201700191).

- [14] N. R. Sahraie, U. I. Kramm, J. Steinberg, Y. Zhang, A. Thomas, T. Reier, J.- P. Paraknowitsch, P. Strasser, Nat. Commun. 2015, 6, 8618.
- [15] Y. Han, Y. G. Wang, W. Chen, R. Xu, L. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Luo, R.-A. Shen, Y. Zhu, W.-C. Cheong, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10194) 2017, 139[, 17269 – 17272.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10194)
- [16] T. Zhou, Y. Du, S. Yin, X. Tian, H. Yang, X. Wang, B. Liu, H. Zheng, S. Qiao, R. Xu, [Energy Environ. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE01297C) 2016, 9, 2563 – 2570.
- [17] U. I. Kramm, M. Lefvre, N. Larouche, D. Schmeisser, J.-P. Dodelet, [J. Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja410076f) [Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja410076f) 2014, 136, 978 – 985.
- [18] T. Palaniselvam, V. Kashyap, S. N. Bhange, J.-B. Baek, S. Kurungot, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201504765) [Funct. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201504765) 2016, 26[, 2150 – 2162.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201504765)
- [19] A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M.-T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, [Nat. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4367) 2015, 14, 937.
- [20] Q. Jia, N. Ramaswamy, H. Hafiz, U. Tylus, K. Strickland, G. Wu, B. Barbiellini, A. Bansil, E. F. Holby, P. Zelenay, S. Mukerjee, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05984) 2015, 9, [12496 – 12505](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05984).
- [21] U. I. Kramm, J. Herranz, N. Larouche, T. M. Arruda, M. Lefvre, F. Jaouen, P. Bogdanoff, S. Fiechter, I. Abs-Wurmbach, S. Mukerjee, J.-P. Dodelet, [Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cp41957b) 2012, 14, 11673 – 11688.
- [22] Y. J. Sa, D. J. Seo, J. Woo, J. T. Lim, J. Y. Cheon, S. Y. Yang, J. M. Lee, D. Kang, T. J. Shin, H. S. Shin, H. Y. Jeong, C. S. Kim, M. G. Kim, T.-Y. Kim, S. H. Joo, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b09470) 2016, 138, 15046 – 15056.
- [23] P. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, G. Zhou, S. Wei, Y. Li, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604802) 2016, 55, 10800 – [10805](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604802); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201604802) 2016, 128[, 10958 – 10963.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201604802)
- [24] R. Wang, K. Wang, Z. Wang, H. Song, H. Wang, S. Ji, [J. Power Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.07.107) 2015, 297[, 295 – 301.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.07.107)
- [25] S. Zhao, C. Li, W. Wang, H. Zhang, M. Gao, X. Xiong, A. Wang, K. Yuan, Y. Huang, F. Wang, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ta01220d) 2013, 1, 3334 – 3339.
- [26] R. Chand, T. Watari, K. Inoue, H. Kawakita, H. N. Luitel, D. Parajuli, T. Torikai, M. Yada, [Miner. Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mineng.2009.07.007) 2009, 22[, 1277 – 1282.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mineng.2009.07.007)
- [27] G. Ji, Y. Duan, S. Zhang, B. Fei, X. Chen, Y. Yang, [ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201701127) 2017, 10, [3427 – 3434](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201701127).
- [28] S. F. Jackson, J. T. Randall, [Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/178798a0) 1956, 178, 798.
- [29] S. D. Gokakakar, A. V. Salker, [J. Therm. Anal. Calorim.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10973-010-0784-y) 2010, 101, 809 [813.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10973-010-0784-y)
- [30] P. Chen, T. Zhou, L. Xing, K. Xu, Y. Tong, H. Xie, L. Zhang, W. Yan, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201610119) 2017, 56, 610 – 614; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201610119) 2017, 129[, 625 – 629.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201610119)

- [31] T. Sharifi, F. Nitze, H. R. Barzegar, C.-W. Tai, M. Mazurkiewicz, A. Malolepszy, L. Stobinski, T. Wgberg, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2012.03.022) 2012, 50[, 3535 – 3541.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2012.03.022)
- [32] J. R. Pels, F. Kapteijn, J. A. Moulijn, Q. Zhu, K. M. Thomas, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/0008-6223(95)00154-6) 1995, 33[, 1641 – 1653.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0008-6223(95)00154-6)
- [33] M. Lefvre, E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, J. P. Dodelet, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1170051) 2009, 324[, 71 74.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1170051)
- [34] L. Wang, Z. Tang, W. Yan, H. Yang, Q. Wang, S. Chen, [ACS Appl. Mater. In](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b02223)terfaces 2016, 8[, 20635 – 20641](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b02223).
- [35] L. Wang, Z. Tang, W. Yan, Q. Wang, H. Yang, S. Chen, [J. Power Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.01.081) [2017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.01.081), 343[, 458 – 466.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.01.081)
- [36] C. Lin, Y. Song, L. Cao, S. Chen, [ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/am404253b) 2013, 5, [13305 – 13311.](https://doi.org/10.1021/am404253b)
- [37] J. Yang, X. Wang, B. Li, L. Ma, L. Shi, Y. Xiong, H. Xu, [Adv. Funct. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201606497) 2017, 27[, 1606497](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201606497).
- [38] C.-H. Cui, S.-H. Yu, [Acc. Chem. Res.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ar300254b) 2013, 46, 1427 1437.
- [39] L. Osmieri, A. M. Videla, P. Ocn, S. Specchia, [J. Phys. Chem. C](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b02455) 2017, 121, [17796 – 17817](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b02455).
- [40] P. Song, Y. Zhang, J. Pan, L. Zhuang, W. Xu, [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC07677J) 2015, 51, [1972 – 1975](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC07677J).
- [41] G. Wu, P. Zelenay, [Acc. Chem. Res.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ar400011z) 2013, 46, 1878 1889.
- [42] H. Wang, T. Maiyalagan, X. Wang, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs200652y) 2012, 2[, 781 794.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs200652y)
- [43] X. Zeng, J. Shui, X. Liu, Q. Liu, Y. Li, J. Shang, L. Zheng, R. Yu, [Adv. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201701345) Mater. 2018, 8[, 1701345.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201701345)
- [44] H.-C. Huang, S.-T. Chang, H.-C. Hsu, H.-Y. Du, C.-H. Wang, L.-C. Chen, K.- H. Chen, [ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.6b01764) 2017, 5, 2897 – 2905.
- [45] J. Herranz, F. Jaouen, M. Lefvre, U. I. Kramm, E. Proietti, J.-P. Dodelet, P. Bogdanoff, S. Fiechter, I. Abs-Wurmbach, P. Bertrand, T. M. Arruda, S. Mukerjee, [J. Phys. Chem. C](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp2042526) 2011, 115, 16087 – 16097.
- [46] W. Zhang, X. Xu, C. Zhang, Z. Yu, Y. Zhou, Y. Tang, P. Wu, S. Guo, [Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.201700167) 2017, 1[, 1700167.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.201700167)
- [47] J. Li, Y. Song, G. Zhang, H. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Sun, X. Guo, [Adv. Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201604356) Mater. 2017, 27[, 1604356.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201604356)
- [48] D. Zhao, J.-L. Shui, L. R. Grabstanowicz, C. Chen, S. M. Commet, T. Xu, Jun. Lu, D. J. Liu, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201304238) 2014, 26[, 1093 – 1097](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201304238).

Manuscript received: February 23, 2018 Accepted manuscript online: April 22, 2018 Version of record online: && &&, 0000

# FULL PAPER

& Electrocatalysts

H. Li, Z. Zhang, M. Dou,\* F. Wang\*

&& – &&

Carbon

Towards High-Performance Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction: Inducing Atomic-Level Reconstruction of Fe-N<sup>x</sup> Site for Atomically Dispersed Fe/N-Doped Hierarchically Porous

Iron man: High-performance atomically dispersed Fe/N-doped porous carbon electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction was synthesized by inducing atomic-level reconstruction of Fe-N4 site.