---
source: Liang 等 - 2024 - Cu Nanoclusters Accelerate the Rate‐Determining Step of Oxygen Reduction on Fe─N─C in All pH Range.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 84.355s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:20:17.487323Z
---

**[www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

# **Cu Nanoclusters Accelerate the Rate-Determining Step of Oxygen Reduction on Fe**─**N**─**C in All pH Range**

*Chen Liang, Xu Han, Tianyu Zhang,\* Bo Dong, Yaping Li, Zhongbin Zhuang, Aijuan Han, and Junfeng Liu\**

**Incorporating atom-nanocluster interactions into Fe**─**N**─**C single-atom catalysts (Fe-SACs) represents a viable strategy for enhancing their oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity, however, further investigation is necessary to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Herein, Cu nanoclusters are incorporated into Fe-SACs to realize markedly enhanced pH-universal ORR performance and investigate the underlying mechanism. The rate-determining step (RDS) investigation reveals that the existence of Cu nanoclusters does not alter the RDS of Fe**─**N**─**C despite their differences in acidic, neutral, or alkaline media but instead optimizes the electronic configuration of Fe**─**N**─**C and significantly promotes the RDS. The synergistic effect between the Fe single atoms and Cu nanoclusters significantly enhances the half-wave potential by 45, 90, and 18 mV in the HClO4, PBS, and KOH electrolytes, respectively. The catalysts further demonstrate remarkable maximum power densities of 971.4, 94.9, and 234.7 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in H2/O2 fuel cells, neutral Zn-air batteries, and alkaline Zn-air batteries, respectively.**

## **1. Introduction**

The demand for low-carbon emissions forces us to develop sustainable and renewable energy-conversion technologies to meet the urgent requirements of the transportation and electric power generation sectors. Fuel cells and metal-air batteries are two promising high-efficiency devices among various techniques, however, currently, the large-scale implementation is currently restricted by the prohibitive cost and low durability of the commercial Pt-based oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalysts.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, significant efforts have focused on developing highperformance and cost-effective Pt-free electrocatalysts.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) To date, single-atom catalysts (SACs) have attracted extensive interest

C. Liang, X. Han, T. Zhang, B. Dong, Y. Li, A. Han, J. Liu State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering Beijing University of Chemical Technology Beijing 100029, China

E-mail: [mzty@sina.cn;](mailto:mzty@sina.cn) [ljf@mail.buct.edu.cn](mailto:ljf@mail.buct.edu.cn)

Z. Zhuang State Key Lab of Organic-Inorganic Composites and Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Soft Matter Science and Engineering Beijing University of Chemical Technology Beijing 100029, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202303935>

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202303935**

owing to the merits of maximized metal utilization and tunable electronic properties.[\[3\]](#page-8-0) Notably, the single nitrogen-coordinated iron atoms supported on porous carbon (Fe-NC) have demonstrated promising ORR catalytic performance.[\[4\]](#page-8-0) However, the adsorption energy of oxygen-containing intermediates on Fe─N sites is not optimal,[\[5\]](#page-8-0) and the ORR mechanism also lacks coherent cognition,[\[6\]](#page-8-0) limiting its further performance optimization and practical applications. Hence, further enhancement of ORR performance and exploration of the underlying reaction mechanism of Fe─N─C are required.

Up to now, various strategies have been developed to regulate the coordination environments and electronic structures of SACs to improve their catalytic performance, including

bimetallic site construction,[\[7\]](#page-8-0) coordinated atom adjustment,[\[8\]](#page-8-0) electronic metal-support interaction,[\[9\]](#page-8-0) and strain engineering.[\[10\]](#page-8-0) Introducing synergistic effects by replacing single atom sites with metal dimers (double-atom catalysts) or atom-nanocluster/nanoparticle combinations is a promising strategy for lowering the energy barriers of the rate-determining step (RDS) of the ORR.[\[11\]](#page-8-0) For example, Xiao et al. reported an Fe─Co dual-atom-centered site with triangular Fe─Co─OH coordination, which facilitated O─O bond scission and enabled efficient acidic ORR.[\[11c\]](#page-8-0) Besides, the size of the congeneric metal (from single atoms to nanoparticles) also affects the adsorption model of O2 molecules (bridge or top-on mode), which determines the catalytic behavior and long-term stability.[\[12\]](#page-8-0) Sun et al. constructed an FeCo─N─C catalyst containing metal nanoparticles (NPs) and Fe─N4 sites with strong interactions, which activated the O─O bond, and facilitated the direct 4e<sup>−</sup> process, thus favoring the ORR process.[\[13\]](#page-8-0)

However, few recent studies have scrutinized the influence of synergistic effects on the ORR RDS and its mechanism, either theoretically or experimentally, which has limited the indepth understanding of the synergistic effects of metal dimers (double-atom catalysts) or atom-nanocluster/nanoparticle combinations. While density functional theory (DFT) is frequently used to simulate changes in reaction mechanisms induced by synergistic effects, the results for different metal atoms or clusters are not the same,[\[14\]](#page-8-0) moreover, accurately representing real experimental conditions, particularly at various pH values, is difficult.

**ADVANCED** SCIENCE NEWS

In contrast, measurement of the kinetic isotope effect (KIE) values and *operando* Raman spectroscopy are two promising strategies to experimentally uncover insights into the RDS of the ORR, which often suggests different RDS with the same catalyst at different pH conditions;<sup>[15]</sup> nonetheless, experimental research on the synergistic effect of single atom-nanocluster/nanoparticle combinations is still lacking in the literature.

Herein, we utilize a vacuum gas diffusion strategy to introduce ultrasmall Cu nanoclusters into porous N-doped carbon with isolated Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites (marked as Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC) and reveal how the synergistic effect boosts its ORR performance in different pH values. Aberration-corrected (AC) high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) demonstrated that Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC was enriched with atomically dispersed Fe–N<sub>4</sub> active sites, with the introduced Cu clusters mainly located on the surface of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC. Owing to the synergistic effect, Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC exhibits outstanding pH-universal ORR activity with half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of 0.83 V in 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> HClO<sub>4</sub>,  $0.84~V~in~0.1~mol~L^{-1}~PBS$ , and  $0.94~V~in~0.1~mol~L^{-1}~KOH$ , respectively. Combined with KIE measurement, operando Raman spectra, and theoretical calculation simulations, we reveal that the synergistic effect promotes the ORR without changing the RDS in different pH media, specifically, the \*OH desorption in acidic conditions, and the \*O2- formation in neutral and alkaline conditions. Moreover,  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$  produced less  $H_2O_2$  and exhibited superior stability with 16, 0, and 4 mV decreases after 30 000 cycles in acidic, neutral, and alkaline media, respectively. Further extending the as-prepared catalyst into real devices, Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC exhibits high maximum power densities of 971.4, 94.9, and 234.7 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> in  $H_2/O_2$  fuel cells, neutral Zn-air batteries (ZABs), and alkaline ZABs, respectively. Overall, the study findings highlight the significance of the synergistic effect between single atoms and additional metal nanoclusters and examine the impact of this synergistic effect on the ORR RDS and mechanism, thus providing guidance for next-generation catalyst

## 2. Results and Discussion

Adv. Energy Mater. 2024, 14, 2303935

## 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC

The synthetic procedure of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalysts is illustrated in Figure 1a. In the design and synthesis of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC, we employed a two-step strategy by using ZIF-8 with a cavity diameter  $(d_c)$  of 11.6 Å and aperture diameter  $(d_a)$  of 3.4 Å as molecularscale cages to separate and encapsulate the active sites. Typically, Fe(acac)<sub>3</sub> (molecular diameter ca. 9.7 Å) was in situ encapsulated in the molecular-scale cages of ZIF-8 to form Fe@ZIF-8 (Figure S1, Supporting Information) as a result of the cavity size. [16] Subsequently, the appropriate amount of Cu(acac), (molecular diameter ca. 5.2 Å) as Cu precursor was deposited on the surface of Fe@ZIF-8 through vacuum gas diffusion. The Cu(acac), molecules are difficult to enter the interior due to the restricted pore aperture size, predominantly localizing on the surface of the Fe@ZIF-8 precursor. During the pyrolysis treatment at 900 °C under an inert atmosphere, ZIF-8 frameworks transformed into porous N-doped carbon, and the encapsulated Fe atoms simultaneously migrated to the partial vacancies originating from the volatilization of zinc atoms, forming isolated Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites. Additionally, the Cu precursor was converted into Cu clusters, ultimately leading to the formation of an Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalyst. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC (Figure 1b) shows a porous rhombic dodecahedral structure with a uniform size (≈400 nm) and a rough surface. AC-HAADF-STEM (Figure 1c) was used to directly visualize single Fe atoms (red arrows) and Cu nanoclusters (yellow circles). The corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) mappings (Figure 1d) demonstrate the uniform distribution of N, Fe, and Cu atoms. To highlight the synergistic effects between Fe single atoms and Cu nanoclusters, a series of control samples (Figure S2, Supporting Information) were conducted via similar methods, including Fe single atoms anchored on NC (Fe<sub>ss</sub>/NC), Cu nanoclusters anchored on NC (Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC), and Fe single atoms and Cu nanoparticles co-anchored on NC (Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>np</sub>/NC).

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure S3, Supporting Information) of the as-prepared catalysts confirm the presence of graphitic carbon (graphite, JCPDS, 41–1487). Metallic peaks can only be found in  ${\rm Fe_{sa}Cu_{np}/NC}$  (Cu, JCPDS: 04–0836). In addition, no significant changes in the Raman peak intensity ratios ( $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$ ) were observed for the obtained catalysts (Figure S4), indicating that the degree of graphitization was maintained<sup>[17]</sup> via our vacuum gas diffusion strategy. Based on the inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) results (Table S1, Supporting Information), the metal loadings of Fe and Cu in the  ${\rm Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC}$  are 4.3 wt% and 2.3 wt%, respectively, similar to that of  ${\rm Fe_{sa}/NC}$  (4.5 wt% for Fe) and  ${\rm Cu_{nc}/NC}$  (2.8 wt% for Cu).

XAS measurements were performed to analyze the electronic configurations and coordination structures of Fe and Cu at the atomic level. The oxidation states of the metal atoms are first examined by the absorption edge position in the Fe and Cu Kedge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES). As shown in Figure 1e, the absorption edges of the Fe K-edge XANES spectra for both Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC and Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC were located between those of FePc and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, implying that the Fe valence state was between +2 and +3. The Cu K-edge XANES spectrum for Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC (Figure S5a, Supporting Information) displays an escalating trend similar to that of the Cu foil, indicating the presence of metallic Cu species in the Cu nanoclusters. In addition, the clear separation at  $\approx$  8982 eV—assigned to the +2 valence state of Cu—indicates a connection between the Cu nanoclusters and the catalyst carbon substrate. The Fourier transform (FT)  $k^3$ weight  $\chi(k)$ -function of the phase-uncorrected extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectrum of Fe for Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC only exhibits a strong peak at 1.56 Å (Figure 1f), corresponding to Fe-N scattering path, demonstrating the atomically dispersed Fe atoms in Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC. Similarly, the EXAFS spectrum of Cu for Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC (Figure S5b, Supporting Information) shows a main peak at 2.25 Å, corresponding to the first coordination shell of Cu-Cu/Fe. The wavelet transform (WT) analysis of  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$  displays a WT maximum at 4.9 and 8.5 Å<sup>-1</sup> at Fe (Figure S6, Supporting Information) and Cu K-edge (Figure S7, Supporting Information), respectively, suggesting the coexistence of isolated Fe centers and Cu nanoclusters. Furthermore, a quantitative least-squares EXAFS curve-fitting analysis was performed to demonstrate the coordination configurations of the Fe atoms in Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC (Figure 1g; Figures S8 and S9 and

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthetic procedure and structural characterizations of the FesaCunc/NC. a) The fabrication process of FesaCunc/NC. b) TEM image of FesaCunc/NC. c) Magnified HAADF-STEM image of FesaCunc/NC (red arrows indicate single Fe atoms and yellow circles show Cu nanoclusters). d) STEM image and the corresponding N, Fe, and Cu EDX mapping images of FesaCunc/NC. e) Normalized XANES spectra and f) Fourier transform (FT) of EXAFS spectra of FesaCunc/NC, FePc, Fe2O3, and Fe foil. g) Corresponding Fe K-edge EXAFS fitting curves of the FesaCunc/NC (inset is the magnified local structure). The red, green, blue, and gray spheres represent Fe, Cu, N, and C atoms, respectively.

Tables S2 and S3, Supporting Information). The best-fitting result shows that the main peak at 1.56 Å in the FT-EXAFS spectrum at the Fe K-edge can be satisfactorily attributed to the Fe─N first shell coordination with a coordination number of 3.85, indicating a square configuration for the Fe─N4 structure. In addition, a small peak is observed at ≈ 2.36 Å for Fe─Cu/Fe with a coordination number of ≈ 0.66.

The chemical compositions of the as-prepared catalysts were investigated using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The high-resolution N *1s* spectrum of FesaCunc/NC displayed four characteristic peaks: pyridinic N (398.5 eV), pyrrolic N (399.5 eV), graphitic N (401.4 eV), and oxidized N (404.1 eV), similar to those of the other three samples (Figure S10, Supporting Information), indicating that the CN substrate structure was maintained through our vacuum gas diffusion strategy. The Fe *2p* spectra showed four peaks at the same position, which could be deconvoluted into Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup> species, illustrating the consistency of the intrinsic active sites of each catalyst (Figure S11, Supporting Information). In the high-resolution Cu *2p* spectra (Figure S12, Supporting Information), Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species can be found in FesaCunc/NC and FesaCunp/NC, indicating electron transfer from the Cu nanoclusters to Fe atoms or a small amount of copper oxide on the surface of the copper clusters.

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic ORR Performance**

The electrocatalytic ORR performances on FesaCunc/NC, as well as the control samples, were examined using a rotating disk electrode (RDE). The FesaCunc/NC catalyst delivers an www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

exceptional half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of 0.83 V in 0.1 mol  $L^{-1}$ HClO<sub>4</sub> (Figure 2a), 0.84 V in 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> PBS (Figure 2b), and 0.94 V in 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH (Figure 2c), respectively, superior to the Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC, Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC, and Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>np</sub>/NC. The cathodic peak of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC (Figure S13, Supporting Information) is obviously higher than that of Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC (Figure S14, Supporting Information). Based on the Koutecky-Levich equation, the kinetic current density ( $j_{\nu}$ ) was 11.9 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.80 V in acid,  $68.0 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at 0.70 V in neutral, and  $145.8 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at 0.85 V in alkaline, respectively (Figure \$15, Supporting Information). The lower Tafel slope of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC exhibited considerable advantages over the control samples, revealing the excellent ORR kinetics of  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$  in all three media (Figure 2d-f). To distinguish the origin of the boosted activity, the ORR performances were normalized by the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) and the metal site density (SD). After ECSA normalization (Figure S16, Supporting Information), it was observed that the ECSA-corrected Tafel plots did not overlap (Figure \$17, Supporting Information). This observation provides evidence that the enhanced activity of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC cannot be solely attributed to an increase in the electrochemically active surface area. Moreover, the turnover frequency (TOF) of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC is much higher than that of Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC under ORR potential region (Figures S18-S20 and Table S4, Supporting Information), proving that the introduction of copper clusters contributes significantly to the improvement of the intrinsic activity of FeN<sub>4</sub> sites. Besides, Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC exhibited exceptional methanol tolerance compared with commercial Pt/C (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The significant E<sub>1/2</sub> shift of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC during the SCN- poisoning experiment[18] indicates that the isolated Fe-N<sub>4</sub> is the real active site (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The  $H_2O_2$  production yields and electron transfer numbers (n) were measured using RRDE. The Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalysts have low H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yields and large electron transfer numbers in all three media (Figures S23–S25, Supporting Information). The same conclusion can be drawn according to the K–L plots (Figures S26-S28, Supporting Information), thus suppressing the production of attacking radicals (•OH and •OOH) from autocatalytic degradation.<sup>[19]</sup> Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC possessed the desired stability during accelerated durability testing (ADT). After 30 000 ADT cycles, the  $E_{1/2}$  of  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$  decreased by only 16, 0, and 4 mV in acidic, neutral, and alkaline conditions, respectively, significantly outperforming Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC (Figure 2g–i; Figures S29-S31, Supporting Information). Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalysts displayed no apparent morphological or structural changes in TEM (Figure S32, Supporting Information) after 30 000 ADT cycles in all three electrolytes, while distinctive metallic particles were observed in the Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC, indicating suppression of Fe leaching with the introduction of Cu. XPS results after ADT indicate that the valence state of Fe in Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC did not show significant changes (Figure \$33, Supporting Information), while a distinct Fe(0) peak can be observed in Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC (Figure S34, Supporting Information), which is consistent with TEM results. Additionally, further experiments on free radical trapping demonstrate that the Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalyst exhibits a lower generation of free radicals compared to Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC (Figure S35, Supporting Information), thereby minimizing the loss of active Fe sites and enhancing the overall durability of the catalyst.<sup>[20]</sup> In addition, we further investigated the effect of metal content on the activity of ORR

(Figures S36 and S37, Supporting Information). A decrease in the metal content may lead to a decrease in the density of active sites, while the increase of metal content can cause morphological destruction and the formation of metal particles, both contributing to a decline in overall activity. Benefiting from the synergistic effect between Fe and Cu,  $\rm Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$  exhibits an impressive  $\rm E_{1/2}$  and stability among other reported non-noble-metal catalysts (Figure 2j; Tables S5–S7, Supporting Information). Additionally, from Figure 2k and Table S8 (Supporting Information), it can be seen that the Fe $_{sa}$ Cu $_{nc}/NC$  catalyst shows excellent pH-universal ORR performance, suggesting great potential for applications in pH-universal media.

#### 2.3. Mechanism Study under Different pH

The mechanism of the 4e<sup>-</sup> ORR on non-noble-metal is often related to the \*O mechanism (O $_2$   $\rightarrow$  OOH\*  $\rightarrow$  O\*  $\rightarrow$  OH\*  $\rightarrow$ H<sub>2</sub>O).<sup>[21]</sup> Determining whether the RDS has changed is critical to comprehend the impact of the synergistic effects between the Cu clusters and FeN<sub>4</sub> sites on the reaction. DFT calculations often predict the last step (the desorption of \*OH) as the RDS at the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites, [22] although some studies also suggest that the RDS of ORR on Fe-N<sub>4</sub> is the formation of OH\*. [14b,23] Introducing a second metal atomic coordination or cluster may either alter[14b] or maintain[24] the reaction RDS. However, DFT calculations is hard to simulate the ORR and estimate the of in diverse pH media, making it challenging to precisely describe the reaction process under realistic reaction conditions. KIE experiments or operando Raman spectra may be used to accurately assess the RDS under real conditions. However, few investigations have established whether synergistic effects modify the reaction process, thus making it essential to combine experimental and theoretical calculations to determine RDS at different pH values.

Since the RDS involves the formation, conversion, or consumption of O-containing intermediates, operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) in kinetic-dominant conditions was employed to simultaneously investigate the charge and mass transfer processes of the catalyst-electrolyte interface which is highly correlated to the O-containing intermediates. The Nyquist plots and corresponding fitted data, including charge transfer resistance (R<sub>ct</sub>), mass transfer resistance (R<sub>mt</sub>) for O-containing intermediates, and capacitance of the reaction process (C<sub>rxn</sub>) based on the equivalent circuit (Figure \$38, Supporting Information)<sup>[25]</sup> in acidic or basic media were displayed in Figures \$39 and \$40 and Tables S9-S12 (Supporting Information). Both  $R_{\rm ct}$  and  $R_{\rm mt}$ of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC are smaller than Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC under the same potential, indicating faster electron transport and more intermediate coverage after the introduction of Cu. The  $C_{\rm rxn}$  of  $Fe_{\rm sa}Cu_{\rm nc}/NC$ and Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC are both increased with the decrease of potential, but the C<sub>rxn</sub> values of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC and Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC are different in acidic and alkaline conditions, which may be attributed to the differences of RDS in acidic and alkaline conditions.

The ORR key intermediates and the corresponding mechanism were then evaluated according to the Tafel- $\theta$  method. <sup>[26]</sup> The large Tafel slopes of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC and Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC (>60 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) in all pH range (Figure 2d–f) suggested that the RDS is the formation of \*OOH or the desorption of \*OH (Figure S41, Supporting Information). *Operando* electrochemical Raman spectra were

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Electrocatalytic ORR performance. ORR polarization curves of FesaCunc/NC, Fesa/CN, Cunc/NC, FesaCunp/NC, and commercial Pt/C in O2 saturated a) 0.1 mol L−<sup>1</sup> HClO4, b) 0.1 mol L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> PBS, and c) 0.1 mol L−<sup>1</sup> KOH at 1600 rpm with a scanning rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. d–f) Tafel plots of all the catalysts. (g–i) ORR polarization curves before and after the stability test. j) Comparison of the E1/2 and decay in E1/2 of stability of the FesaCunc/NC, Fesa/NC, and previously reported non-noble-metal catalysts in acidic, neutral, and alkaline media, respectively. The number in parentheses after the sample name represents the number of cycles for the stability tests. k) Comparison of E1/2 in acidic, neutral, and alkaline media of the FesaCunc/NC, Fesa/NC, and previously reported pH-universal ORR catalysts.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Investigation of ORR mechanism under different pH. a,b) Potential-dependent *operando* Raman spectra of FesaCunc/NC a) and Fesa/NC (b) in 0.1 mol L−<sup>1</sup> HClO4 during the ORR process. c) KIE values of FesaCunc/NC, Fesa/NC, and Pt/C in both acidic and alkaline media. d) Calculated charge density differences for FesaCunc/NC (blue and yellow regions represent electron depletion and electron accumulation, respectively). Free energy changes of elementary reactions on FesaCunc at e) acidic and f) neutral/alkaline media, as a function of potential. Proposed ORR mechanism on FeN4/Cu-cluster site at g) acidic and h) neutral/alkaline media. White, red, gray, blue, purple, and orange spheres correspond to the H, O, C, N, Fe, and Cu atoms, respectively.

further employed to detect O-containing intermediates during ORR under different pH conditions. As shown in **Figure 3**a,b, a band at 1085 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> attributed to \*OH intermediates[\[27\]](#page-8-0) was observed in both FesaCunc/NC and Fesa/NC, implying the desorption of \*OH species (OH\* + H<sup>+</sup> + e<sup>−</sup> → H2O) as the RDS in acidic media, which is consistent with the Tafel- analysis. However, no Raman signals were detected in neutral and alkaline media (Figures S42 and S43, Supporting Information), indicating that no O-containing intermediates are involved in the RDS.

Subsequently, the KIE was investigated in 0.1 mol L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H/(D)ClO4 and KOH/(D) to further experimentally elucidate insights into the RDS of the ORR under different pH conditions, in

ADVANCED ENERGY

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

which a KIE value larger than or approximately equal to one indicates an RDS with or without proton involvement. [28] The KIE values were calculated using the tangent onset potential method<sup>[29]</sup> (Figures S44 and S45, Supporting Information) and are summarized in Figure 3c. Notably, the KIE values of Pt/C exhibited a consistent value of ≈1 in both acidic and alkaline solutions, demonstrating that protons were not involved in the RDS during the ORR of commercial Pt.[15b] In contrast, the varying KIE values observed for Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC and Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC in solutions with different pH values indicate distinct RDSs under acidic and alkaline conditions. The KIE values of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC and Fe<sub>sa</sub>/NC in acidic conditions were ≈2.5, demonstrating that the RDS involves proton transfer, specifically the desorption of \*OH (OH\* + H+ +  $e^- \rightarrow H_2O$ ), thereby supporting the previous mechanism discussion. However, the RDS for the obtained catalysts in alkaline conditions is proved to be the first electron transfer step  $(O_2 + e^- + *$  $\rightarrow$  \*O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>) without protons involved, as indicated by a KIE value

The mechanism and RDS of FesaCunc/NC in different media were further confirmed by DFT calculations.[30] Nanoclusters play a crucial role in the regulation of the charge density and spin state.[31] The charge density redistribution on the Fe atom upon the incorporation of the Cu cluster was shown in Figure 3d, which revealed an increased electron density (yellow region) around the Fe atom. The Bader charge was further calculated to provide a more comprehensive explanation of electron transfer, indicating that the Cu nanocluster donated 0.2 electrons to the Fe single atom. This synergistic effect also existed when the Fe single atoms and the Cu clusters were at a certain distance (Figure \$46, Supporting Information). Moreover, the Cu cluster exerts a discernible influence on the spin state of the Fe site, which could significantly impact reaction performance, [32] with a remarkable increase in the spin population by 1.15 µB compared to -0.03 μB for a Fe-N<sub>4</sub> site (Figure S47, Supporting Information). The calculation reveals that the presence of a neighboring Cu nanocluster can enhance the electron and spin density at the Fe site, thereby resulting in the formation of a more reactive Fe site responsible for better ORR activity. In addition, the DFT calculations further revealed that both independent and composite Cu clusters exhibited significantly lower intrinsic activity compared to Fe single atoms, thus confirming that Fe single atom was the real active site rather than the Cu nanocluster (Figure S48, Supporting Information). Therefore, the Fe atom serves as the real active site while the Cu cluster functions in regulating the electron density or spin state of the Fe atom.

To simulate the realistic reaction conditions, particularly the pH, we established an explicit solvation model by introducing additional  $\rm H_3O^+$  or  $\rm OH^-$  ions into the water layer during calculations conducted under acidic or neutral/alkaline conditions, respectively. Besides, we considered both electrode potential (E) and boundary layer environment effects to simulate the energy changes of each ORR step for  $\rm Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$ . Figure 3e,f show the free energy changes for each elementary ORR step on the  $\rm FeN_4$ —Cu nanoclusters under acidic and neutral/alkaline conditions, respectively. As E decreased, all the kinetic barriers of each step gradually decreased. In acidic conditions, the free energy of the reduction and desorption step for \*OH intermediate (\*OH + e^- + H^+  $\rightarrow$  H<sub>2</sub>O + \*) is the highest across the entire potential range, indicating the \*OH reduction and desorption step is the

RDS. Besides, ORR under neutral and alkaline conditions follows the mechanism of  $O_2 + 4e^- + 2H_2O \rightarrow 4OH^-$  due to the lack of protons.[33] As shown in Figure 3f, the oxygen adsorption and electron transfer step (\* +  $O_2$  +  $e^- \rightarrow *O_2^-$ ) is considered the RDS. To further clarify that RDS is the oxygen adsorption or electron transfer step, we measured the reaction order of p(O<sub>2</sub>), which is close to zero at around E<sub>onset</sub> (Figure S49, Supporting Information), indicating the adsorption of oxygen (\* +  $O_2 \rightarrow *O_2$ ) is not the RDS. Therefore, we can deduce that the RDS in 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> PBS and 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH can be determined as  ${}^*O_2 + e^- \rightarrow {}^*O_2^{-[34]}$  Figure 3g,h illustrate the mechanisms of the Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalyst in acidic and neutral/alkaline media, respectively. Under acidic conditions, the adsorption of  $O_2$  is followed by proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET), leading to \*OOH formation. The \*O and \*OH intermediates were then generated in the second and third PCET steps, respectively. The last step, that is, the RDS for the entire reaction, is also a PCET process that ultimately achieves the 4e<sup>-</sup> reduction of O<sub>2</sub>. As for in the neutral and alkaline media, the initial step of the O2 adsorption process involves an electron transfer, resulting in the formation of an O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> intermediate, which is the RDS of the entire reaction (a non-PCET step). After two PCET processes, a \*OH intermediate was produced. \*OH intermediate subsequently receives the fourth electron of ORR and finally desorbs in the form of OH-. Based on the above analysis, we propose that the introduction of Cu did not change but accelerated the RDS by promoting the electron transfer rate, thereby enhancing the ORR performance.

## 2.4. Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC-based PEMFCs and ZABs

To evaluate the practical performance of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC, we investigated Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC catalyst as the cathode in proton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) membrane electrode assemblies (MEA) and neutral/alkaline ZABs. As the cathode in PEMFC, the open-circuit voltage of the MEA is 0.875 V using H<sub>2</sub> and O<sub>2</sub>, indicating that the inherent activity of the ORR is high in a fuel cell environment. Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC reached a maximum power density value of ≈974.1 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at a back pressure of 0.2 MPa (Figure 4a), much higher than the Fe<sub>a</sub>/NC sample (476.3 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). Besides, the neutral liquid ZABs also show excellent performance (Figure 4b) with a higher power density (94.9 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>), outperforming  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  (87.8 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) and commercial Pt/C (77.3 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). Moreover, the Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC-based battery exhibits the highest power density (234.7 mW cm  $^{-2}$ ) and specific capacity (767.6 mAh  $g_{\rm Zn}^{-1}$ ) at  $10\,mA~cm^{-2}$  among  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  (215.2  $mW~cm^{-2}$  , 725.8  $mAh~g_{Zn}^{~-1}$  ) and commercial Pt/C (170.1 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, 707.7 mAh  $g_{Zn}^{-1}$ ) in alkaline ZAB (Figure 4c,d). The galvanostatic discharge measurements for Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC-based alkaline ZAB (Figure 4e) displayed a small voltage drop, suggesting excellent discharge rate performance and good reversibility. Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC-based alkaline ZAB shows a stable discharge voltage at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4f) and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S50, Supporting Information), indicating good stability in real devices.

#### 3. Conclusion

In conclusion, we constructed an FeCu—NC catalyst with Fe single atoms and Cu nanoclusters embedded in porous N-doped

16146849, 2024, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced of ninelibrary.wie.je.com/doi/10.1002/anm.202309935 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wie.je.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Librar

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 4. PEMFCs and ZABs tests. a)  $H_2/O_2$  fuel cell polarization plots. Cathode: 3 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> of  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$ ; 0.2 mgpt cm<sup>-2</sup> 40 wt% Pt/C; 100% RH;  $O_2$ , 0.2 MPa partial pressures. Anode: 0.1 mgpt cm<sup>-2</sup> 60 wt% Pt/C; 100% RH;  $H_2$ , 0.2 MPa partial pressure, cell 353 K; 5 cm<sup>2</sup> electrode area. Discharge polarization curves and corresponding power density curves of b) neutral and c) alkaline ZABs with  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$ ,  $Fe_{sa}/NC$ , and Pt/C as air cathodes. d) Zn-mass-normalized specific capacities at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of alkaline ZABs using  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$ ,  $Fe_{sa}/NC$ , and Pt/C as the cathodic catalysts. e) Discharge curves of the alkaline ZABs at current densities of 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. f) Long-time galvanostatic discharge curves of alkaline ZABs with  $Fe_{sa}Cu_{nc}/NC$ ,  $Fe_{sa}/NC$ , and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$ , and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/NC$  and  $Fe_{sa}/N$ 

carbon through a vacuum gas diffusion strategy. The synergistic effect and mechanism of Fe single atoms and Cu nanoclusters in pH-universal oxygen reduction reaction were discovered. Combined with the *operando* characterization, ORR performance, and DFT simulation, we reveal that the introduction of Cu did not change but boosted the RDS by accelerating the electron transfer. Thus, the obtained Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC displays an E<sub>1/2</sub> of 0.83, 0.84, and 0.94 V in 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> HClO<sub>4</sub>, 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> PBS, and 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH, respectively. The lab-scale fuel cell, neutral ZAB, and alkaline ZAB equipped with Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC show high power densities of 971.4, 94.9, and 234.7 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, highlighting the considerable potential of Fe<sub>sa</sub>Cu<sub>nc</sub>/NC in practical applications. Hence, this work provides a new, highly active composite site for catalyzing the ORR in a universal pH medium.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2018YFA0702002), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), and the Fundamental Research

Funds for the Central Universities. The study was also supported by High-Performance Computing Platform of Beijing University of Chemical Technology. The authors thank Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) and Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for XAS measurement.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

atomic Fe— $N_4$  sites, Cu nanoclusters, oxygen reduction reaction, pH-universal, reaction mechanism

Received: November 17, 2023 Revised: January 4, 2024

Published online: January 24, 2024

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[1] Y. He, S. Liu, C. Priest, Q. Shi, G. Wu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 3484.
- [2] a) Y. Nie, L. Li, Z. Wei, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 2168; b) X. Han, T. Zhang, W. Chen, B. Dong, G. Meng, L. Zheng, C. Yang, X. Sun, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, A. Han, J. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2002753; c) J. Jin, Y. Fang, T. Zhang, A. Han, B. Wang, J. Liu, *Sci. China Mater.* **2022**, *65*, 2704.
- [3] a) J. Jin, X. Han, Y. Fang, Z. Zhang, Y. Li, T. Zhang, A. Han, J. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2109218; b) T. Gan, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2023**, 1, [https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5700-4;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5700-4) c) Z. Zhang, M. Zhou, Y. Chen, S. Liu, H. Wang, J. Zhang, S. Ji, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Sci. China Mater.* **2021**, *64*, 1919.
- [4] a) J. Zhang, H. Yang, B. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2002473; b) A. Han, B. Wang, A. Kumar, Y. Qin, J. Jin, X. Wang, C. Yang, B. Dong, Y. Jia, J. Liu, X. Sun, *Small Methods* **2019**, *3*, 1800471.
- [5] J. Zhang, H. B. Yang, D. Zhou, B. Liu, *Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *122*, 17028.
- [6] J. Wei, D. Xia, Y. Wei, X. Zhu, J. Li, L. Gan, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 7811.
- [7] a) X. Zheng, B. Li, Q. Wang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 7806; b) C. Ye, M. Peng, Y. Li, D. Wang, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Sci. China Mater.* **2022**, *66*, 1071.
- [8] a) Y. Wu, X. Wu, T. Tu, P. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Zhou, L. Huang, S. Sun, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *278*, 119259; b) T. Zhang, J. Jin, J. Chen, Y. Fang, X. Han, J. Chen, Y. Li, Y. Wang, J. Liu, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6875.
- [9] a) J. Yang, W. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003300; b) R. Li, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 6888.
- [10] G. Meng, W. Sun, A. A. Mon, X. Wu, L. Xia, A. Han, Y. Wang, Z. Zhuang, J. Liu, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903616.
- [11] a) J. Zhang, H. Yang, B. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *11*, 2002473; b) Z. Lu, B. Wang, Y. Hu, W. Liu, Y. Zhao, R. Yang, Z. Li, J. Luo, B. Chi, Z. Jiang, M. Li, S. Mu, S. Liao, J. Zhang, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 2622; c) M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763.
- [12] M. Liu, L. Wang, K. Zhao, S. Shi, Q. Shao, L. Zhang, X. Sun, Y. Zhao, J. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 2890.
- [13] S. Yin, J. Yang, Y. Han, G. Li, L. Wan, Y. Chen, C. Chen, X. Qu, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 21976.
- [14] a) M. Zhang, H. Li, J. Chen, F. X. Ma, L. Zhen, Z. Wen, C. Y. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *33*, 2209726; b) X. Wan, Q. Liu, J. Liu, S. Liu, X. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Shang, R. Yu, J. Shui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2963.
- [15] a) X. Li, C. S. Cao, S. F. Hung, Y. R. Lu, W. Cai, A. I. Rykov, S. Miao, S. Xi, H. Yang, Z. Hu, J. Wang, J. Zhao, E. E. Alp, W. Xu, T. S. Chan, H. Chen, Q. Xiong, H. Xiao, Y. Huang, J. Li, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 3440; b) E. C. M. Tse, J. A. Varnell, T. T. H. Hoang, A. A. Gewirth, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2016**, *7*, 3542.
- [16] Y. Chen, S. Ji, Y. Wang, J. Dong, W. Chen, Z. Li, R. Shen, L. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6937.
- [17] W. Su, N. Kumar, A. Krayev, M. Chaigneau, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2891.
- [18] T. Zhang, F. Wang, C. Yang, X. Han, C. Liang, Z. Zhang, Y. Li, A. Han, J. Liu, B. Liu, *Chem Catal.* **2022**, *2*, 836.

- [19] L. Wan, K. Zhao, Y. Wang, N. Wei, P. Zhang, J. Yuan, Z. Zhou, S. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 11097.
- [20] a) E. Luo, H. Zhang, X. Wang, L. Gao, L. Gong, T. Zhao, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, 12599; b) X. Cheng, X. Jiang, S. Yin, L. Ji, Y. Yan, G. Li, R. Huang, C. Wang, H. Liao, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202306166.
- [21] a) F. Calle-Vallejo, J. I. Martinez, J. Rossmeisl, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2011**, *13*, 15639; b) J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.
- [22] a) M. Xiao, Z. Xing, Z. Jin, C. Liu, J. Ge, J. Zhu, Y. Wang, X. Zhao, Z. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2004900; b) D. Xia, X. Yang, L. Xie, Y. Wei, W. Jiang, M. Dou, X. Li, J. Li, L. Gan, F. Kang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1906174.
- [23] A. Han, W. Sun, X. Wan, D. Cai, X. Wang, F. Li, J. Shui, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202303185.
- [24] H. Huang, D. Yu, F. Hu, S. C. Huang, J. Song, H. Y. Chen, L. L. Li, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116068.
- [25] H. Lien, S. Chang, P. Chen, D. P. Wong, Y. Chang, Y. Lu, C. Dong, C. Wang, K. Chen, L. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4233.
- [26] a) S. Zhang, W. Xu, P. He, X. Chen, L. Su, T. Ma, Z. Lu, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *13*, 3409; b) A. Holewinski, S. Linic, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2012**, *159*, H864.
- [27] a) J. Dong, X. Zhang, V. Briega-Martos, X. Jin, J. Yang, S. Chen, Z. Yang, D. Wu, J. M. Feliu, C. T. Williams, Z. Tian, J. Li, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 60; b) J. Dong, M. Su, V. Briega-Martos, L. Li, J. Le, P. Radjenovic, X. Zhou, J. M. Feliu, Z. Tian, J. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 715.
- [28] T. Y. George, T. Asset, A. Avid, P. Atanassov, I. V. Zenyuk, *ChemPhysChem* **2020**, *21*, 469.
- [29] G. de Falco, M. Florent, A. De Rosa, T. J. Bandosz, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *586*, 597.
- [30] a) X. Hai, X. Zhao, N. Guo, C. Yao, C. Chen, W. Liu, Y. Du, H. Yan, J. Li, Z. Chen, X. Li, Z. Li, H. Xu, P. Lyu, J. Zhang, M. Lin, C. Su, S. J. Pennycook, C. Zhang, S. Xi, J. Lu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 5862; b) H. Zhang, J. Li, S. Xi, Y. Du, X. Hai, J. Wang, H. Xu, G. Wu, J. Zhang, J. Lu, J. Wang, *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, 15013; c) T. Sun, S. Mitchell, J. Li, P. Lyu, X. Wu, J. Pérez-Ramírez, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2003075.
- [31] X. Li, S. Mitchell, Y. Fang, J. Li, J. Perez-Ramirez, J. Lu, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2023**, *7*, 754.
- [32] a) T. Sun, Z. Tang, W. Zang, Z. Li, J. Li, Z. Li, L. Cao, J. S. Dominic Rodriguez, C. O. M. Mariano, H. Xu, P. Lyu, X. Hai, H. Lin, X. Sheng, J. Shi, Y. Zheng, Y.-R. Lu, Q. He, J. Chen, K. S. Novoselov, C.-H. Chuang, S. Xi, X. Luo, J. Lu, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2023**, *18*, 763; b) Z. Li, Z. Wang, S. Xi, X. Zhao, T. Sun, J. Li, W. Yu, H. Xu, T. S. Herng, X. Hai, P. Lyu, M. Zhao, S. J. Pennycook, J. Ding, H. Xiao, J. Lu, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 7105.
- [33] S. C. Popat, D. Ki, B. E. Rittmann, C. I. Torres, *ChemSusChem* **2012**, *5*, 1071.
- [34] J. Gao, H. Yang, X. Huang, S. Hung, W. Cai, C. Jia, S. Miao, H. M. Chen, X. Yang, Y. Huang, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 658.