---
source: Lin 等 - 2024 - Second‐Shell Coordination Environment Modulation for MnN4 Active Sites by Oxygen Doping t.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.177s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:23:48.154650Z
---

# **Second-Shell Coordination Environment Modulation for MnN4 Active Sites by Oxygen Doping to Boost Oxygen Reduction Performance**

*Xuanni Lin, Dong Liu,\* Lei Shi, Feng Liu, Fenghui Ye, Ruyi Cheng, and Liming Dai\**

**As a category of transition metal−nitrogen−carbon (M−N−C) catalysts, Mn-based single-atom catalysts (SACs) are considered as promising non-precious metal catalysts for stable oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) due to their Fenton-inactive character (versus Fe) and more abundant earth reserves (versus Ni, Co). However, their ORR activity is unsatisfactory. Besides, the structure-activity relationship via tuning the coordination environment of the second coordination shell for transition metal single sites is still elusive. Here, a Mn SAC with O doping in the second-shell of atomically dispersed Mn centers (MnSAC-O/C) as highly efficient and stable ORR catalyst is developed. X-ray absorption spectroscopy combined with theoretical calculations verifies the O doping in the second-shell of Mn center, and reveals the distortion of local environment of Mn center in the MnSAC-O/C. The MnSAC-O/C exhibits high ORR performance with a half-wave potential of 0.898 V, superior to MnSAC-C, commercial Pt/C and most reported non-noble metal-based SACs. More importantly, MnSAC-O/C based zinc-air batteries (ZABs) deliver outstanding durability with stable operation exceeding 930 h. Theoretical calculations confirm that O doping breaks the symmetry of charge distribution of MnN4 active center and facilitates OH\* desorption, thus attributing to the promoted ORR activity.**

X. Lin, D. Liu, F. Ye, R. Cheng

State Key Laboratory of Organic-Inorganic Composites

College of Chemical Engineering

Beijing University of Chemical Technology

Beijing 100029, China

E-mail: [liudong@mail.buct.edu.cn](mailto:liudong@mail.buct.edu.cn)

L. Shi

CAS Key Laboratory of Nanosystem and Hierarchical Fabrication

CAS Center for Excellence in Nanoscience

National Center for Nanoscience and Technology

Beijing 100190, China

F. Liu

Institute of Materials Science and Devices School of Materials Science and Engineering Suzhou University of Science and Technology

Suzhou 215009, China

L. Dai

Australian Carbon Materials Centre (A-CMC) School of Chemical Engineering

University of New South Wales Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia E-mail: [l.dai@unsw.edu.au](mailto:l.dai@unsw.edu.au)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202407146>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202407146**

# **1. Introduction**

The development of highly efficient but low-cost electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is crucial for increasing the energy density and large-scale use of renewable energy devices, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries, to alleviate the worldwide energy crisis and environmental issues.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) Platinum (Pt)-based catalysts have been long used as commercial ORR catalysts due to its high activity, although they are expansive and scarce with a poor long-term stability.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, much efforts have been devoted to develop earthabundant non-noble-metal electrocatalysts for ORR, including metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) catalysts, carbon nanocomposites with non-noble-metals or their compounds (e.g., oxides, nitrides and phosphides), and metal-free carbon-based catalysts.[[3\]](#page-10-0) Among them, metal single-atom catalysts (SACs) are of particular interests due to their atomically dispersed metal sites for maximized metal atom utilization and detailed

structure–activity relationship study.[\[4\]](#page-10-0)

Carbon nanomaterials with atomically dispersed transition metal atoms (M-NX, M: Fe, Co, Cu, Mn, etc.) have been considered as low-cost alternatives to Pt-based ORR catalysts,[\[5\]](#page-10-0) as exemplified by Fe-N-C electrocatalysts with FeN4 sites.[\[5a\]](#page-10-0) E.g., Wu et al. reported Fe single atoms confined in a 2D graphene framework as a highly active ORR electrocatalyst.[\[3e\]](#page-10-0) However, Fe ions show a Fenton-active character, thus leading to inevitable loss of active sites during the ORR process.[\[6\]](#page-11-0) Specifically, when the Fe-N-C catalysts were used as the cathode catalysts in PEM-FCs, massive O-containing radical species produced from the dissolved Fe ions via Fenton reaction, leading to degradation of proton membrane, ionomer, catalyst itself and rapid PEMFC performance decay.[\[7\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, Fe-N-C catalysts in practical zincair batteries (ZABs) show also an unsatisfactory ORR stability. The poor stability limits the practical application of Fe-N-C catalysts in various energy-related devices. In principle, Mn-based catalysts, which are insensitive to the Fenton reaction, hold great potential as ORR electrocatalysts with high activity and excellent durability.[\[8\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, it has been reported that the incorporation of heteroatoms into the first-shell and second-shell of Mn center could efficiently modulate their electronic structures

and optimize the adsorption of intermediates for superior ORR activity.[\[8,9\]](#page-11-0) For instance, the sulfur (S) heteroatom with electron spin effect incorporated into the second coordinated shell around MnN4 with C−S−C structure, leading to repulsive interaction between S and the ORR intermediate species to weaken adsorption of intermediates and boost the ORR activity.[\[8\]](#page-11-0) Having a higher electronegativity than that of carbon (3.44 versus 2.55), O atom, as an ideal electron donor, can change the local electronic structure and tune energy level for the *d*-electrons of Mn. However, it remains a grand challenge to control the doping position of heteroatoms (at the first or second shell) for SACs. To the best of our knowledge, little attention has been paid to study the correlation between the second-shell O modulation of MnN4 sites and ORR performance.

In this work, we developed an O-coordinated Mn singleatom catalyst (MnSAC-O/C) with an enhanced ORR activity and excellent stability in ZABs. The atomically dispersed Mn site (MnN4-O/C) with O locating at the second shell of Mn center to form the N−O−C structure was confirmed by combined experimental and theoretical simulation studies. This distinctive structure was achieved by the following synthetic approach. Typically, the O-rich terephthalic acid was connected with Zn ions to form the metal organic frameworks-5 (MOF-5), and then Mn(II)-phenanthroline was encapsulated into the well-defined cages to form the catalyst precursor. After carbonization and pickling treatments, the O-coordinated atomically dispersed MnSAC-O/C catalyst was generated without adding additional N sources. X-ray absorption fine spectroscopy (XAFS) combined with aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF-STEM) revealed that O-dopants located at the second shell of Mn center. Accordingly, MnSAC-O/C displayed enhanced ORR performance, compared with the MnSAC-C with O-free MnN4 sites, with a more positive half-wave overpotential (*E*1/2, MnSAC-O/C: 0.898 V, MnSAC-C: 0.867 V), onset potential (*E*onset, MnSAC-O/C: 1.054 V, MnSAC-C: 1.051 V) and higher stability. The ORR activity of MnSAC-O/C also surpassed most of Mn-based non-noble metal catalysts and other recentlyreported state-of-the-art non-noble metal-based catalysts (Tables S1 and S2, Supporting Information). Furthermore, Zn-air batteries with a MnSAC-O/C cathode showed outstanding longtime durability with stable operation exceeding 930 h, outperformed Pt/C and MnSAC-C-based counterparts. Furthermore, potential-dependent in situ electrochemical Raman measurements revealed the interaction between Mn atom centers and oxygen intermediates during ORR process, suggesting that the Mn atom centers act as catalytic active sites. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicated that O-doping at the second shell of Mn sites could reduce the energy barrier of the rate-determination step (RDS) and weaken the binding strength of OH\*, thus facilitating the ORR process. This work not only provides an atomic-level understanding of oxygen doping in Mn−N−C catalyst toward ORR, but also offers a novel approach to regulating the doping position of oxygen in Mn-based SAC catalysts. The methodology and fundamental principle developed in this study can be extended to design and synthesis of other O-doped SACs for high-performance energy conversion devices.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

As schematically shown in **Figure 1**[a,](#page-2-0) the double solvent strategy was used to synthesize metal organic framework-5 (MOF-5) based Mn-centered catalyst (MnSAC-O/C).[\[10\]](#page-11-0) The as-synthesized MOF-5 materials (Figures S1a,b and S2, Supporting Information) were well-dispersed into n-hexane. Then, the ethanol solution containing 1,10-phenanthroline and manganese salts (denoted as Mn(II)-phenanthroline complex) was added into the above mixture. During the ultrasound and stirring process, MOF-5 served as an ideal molecular-scale cage to encapsulate the Mn(II)-phenanthroline complex, forming the Mn-based MOF (Mn-MOF-5) (Figure S1c,d, Supporting Information). The direct pyrolysis of Mn-MOF-5 precursor at 1000 °C under Ar atmosphere, followed by acid pickling led to the formation of O-rich MnSAC-O/C catalyst. The Mn-centered catalyst with reducing O content (MnSAC-C) was prepared by using the same method except that the pyrolysis process was performed under Ar/H2 reducing atmosphere, leading to a largely reduced O content in the MnSAC-C (vide infra). For comparison, the O-doped carbon (OC) was also synthesized by direct pyrolysis of MOF-5 under Ar atmosphere. The detailed experimental process is described in Supporting Information.

The morphological features were observed by scanning and transmission electron microscopy (SEM and TEM) imaging. As displayed in Figure [1b](#page-2-0) and Figure S3 (Supporting Information), MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C and OC roughly remained the regular cube morphologies. However, their surfaces became extremely bumpy compared with their corresponding precursors (Figure S1, Supporting Information). High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images show that the MnSAC-O/C possesses a highly open porous structure (due to the evaporation of Zn at 907 °C) and a clear graphitic fringe-shaped carbon structure (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Similar structures were also observed in the MnSAC-C and OC samples (Figures S5 and S6, Supporting Information). The partially graphitized carbon layers are beneficial for promoting the conductivity.[\[11\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, the corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mappings indicate that the C, N, O, and Mn elements are welldispersed in MnSAC-O/C (Figure S4h, Supporting Information), revealing the even distribution of Mn species over the carbon substrate. Meanwhile, no small Mn nanoparticle was observed in the HRTEM images of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C, as also confirmed by their X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Their powder XRD patterns show only two similar broad peaks at ≈24 and 44° attributable to (002) and (101) planes of graphitic carbon, respectively, confirming the existence of amorphous carbon without any diffraction signals for metal or metal oxide in these samples.[\[12\]](#page-11-0) AC HAADF-STEM images in Figure [1d,f](#page-2-0) and Figure S8 (Supporting Information) demonstrate that there are many atomically dispersed Mn atoms (the bright dots) anchored in both MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C, respectively. The corresponding electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) spectrum of MnSAC-O/C exhibits an obvious peak begun at 532 eV attributable to O species (Figure [1e\)](#page-2-0),[\[13\]](#page-11-0) while no peak at the same location was detected in MnSAC-C (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0), revealing that oxygen species probably exist around the local environment of Mn center in MnSAC-O/C. During the synthesis

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of synthesis for the MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C. b) SEM and c) HRTEM images of MnSAC-O/C. AC HAADF-STEM images and corresponding EELS spectra for d,e) MnSAC-O/C and f,g) MnSAC-C.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-journal.com

process, it was found that the pyrolysis of precursor under  $\rm Ar/H_2$  atmosphere generated a large amount of Mn oxide, and the Mn contents in the MnSAC-C sample obviously decreased after acid pickling and secondary carbonization. To ensure similar Mn contents in different MnSAC samples for comparison, a predetermined amount of Mn(II)-phenanthroline was added in the precursors for preparing MnSAC-C samples. As determined by the inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES), the overall Mn contents in MnSAC-O/C (0.26 wt.%) and MnSAC-C (0.28 wt.%) are similar Table S3 (Supporting Informtion).

The TEM and HRTEM images exhibit that the above samples possess abundant pore structure (Figures \$4-\$6, Supporting Information). Accordingly, N<sub>2</sub> adsorption/desorption isotherms were performed to further evaluate their specific surface area (S<sub>RET</sub>) and porous structure distribution. As given in Figure S9a (Supporting Information), the S<sub>BET</sub> of MnSAC-O/C is 1238 m<sup>2</sup>  $g^{-1}$ , which is smaller than the  $S_{BET}$  of OC (2101 m<sup>2</sup>  $g^{-1}$ ). More importantly, the MnSAC-C demonstrates a lower S<sub>RFT</sub> (797 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) than that of MnSAC-O/C, probably due to the more additive amount of Mn(II)-phenanthroline in the MOF-5 precursor. Since Mn(II)-phenanthroline encapsulates occupy the pores of MOF-5, the values of  $S_{\text{BET}}$  for MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C are lower than that of OC. Meanwhile, Figure S9a (Supporting Information) displays typical type-IV curves with distinguished hysteresis loops, indicating the co-existence of micropores and inherent mesopores (Figure S9b, Supporting Information). [3e] The rich micropores, mainly stem from the evaporation of Zn,[14] are conducive and can expose more catalytic sites to accessible reactive species while the mesopores can provide the channels for mass transport.[14] Thus, the hierarchically porous structure in MnSAC-O/C is beneficial for the mass transfer process to enhance the ORR performance.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) characterizations disclose the element composition and coordination environment of the catalysts at atomic scale. The XPS survey spectra indicate that MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C are mainly composed of C, N, O, and Mn elements (Figure S10, Supporting Information), and no Zn-related peaks at 1021.9 and 1046.0 eV are detected. According to the relative element contents summarized in Table \$4 (Supporting Information), the surface O contents of MnSAC-O/C (8.03 at.%) are significantly higher than that of MnSAC-C (4.07 at.%). Meanwhile, the content of surface Mn in MnSAC-O/C (0.20 at.%) is close to that in MnSAC-C (0.13 at.%). Besides, the existence of similar surface N contents in MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C is confirmed by their XPS data (Table \$4, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 2a, high-resolution XPS (HR-XPS) N 1s spectrum for MnSAC-O/C is deconvoluted into six sub-peaks representing pyridinic N (398.2 eV), Mn-N (399.2 eV), pyrrolic N (400.1 eV), graphitic N (401.1 eV), N-O (402.3 eV) and NO<sub>v</sub> (403.5 eV), while there are only five sub-peaks in the HR-XPS N 1s spectrum for MnSAC-C without the peak of N-O (Figure \$11, Supporting Information). [1e] Due to higher electronegativity of O compared to N, it has a stronger ability to attract electrons. As the number of O atoms bound to N increases, the N atom will provide more electrons to the O atoms, resulting in a higher binding energy of NO<sub>x</sub>. Therefore, the binding energy of NO<sub>x</sub> (403.5 eV) is higher than that of N-O (402.3 eV).[15] Interestingly,

both MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C contain a relatively higher ratio of Mn-N compared with other N species (Figures 2a; Figure S11 and Table S5, Supporting Information) while most reported literatures show that pyridinic N or pyrrolic N is the dominant N species in N-doped carbons. [16] This phenomenon is related to the synthesis process of our catalysts, during which there is no additional nitrogen sources except 1,10-phenanthroline that are connected with Mn ions for forming Mn(II)-phenanthroline complex, and then encapsulating into the cage of MOF-5. The HR-XPS Mn 2p spectrum (Figure 2b) of MnSAC-O/C exhibits two pairs peaks at 641.2/652.7 eV and 642.7/653.8 eV, assigning to Mn<sup>2+</sup> and Mn<sup>3+</sup>, [17] confirming that no Mn nanoparticles exist in both MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C samples. Compared to the Mn 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peak in MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C exhibits a 0.3 eV positive shift in binding energy, suggesting a lower oxidation state of Mn in MnSAC-O/C. It also matches well with Bader charge density difference analysis (Figure S12, Supporting Information), indicating that Mn atom losses less electrons on the single MnSAC-O/C substrates compared with that on the single MnN<sub>4</sub>-C substrates. The HR-XPS O 1s spectra of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C, and OC show three fitting peaks of 533.2 eV (O=C-O\*), 532.0 eV (C-O), and 530.9 eV (C=O), [18] suggesting that C-O is the dominant O species in the above samples (Figure \$13, Supporting Information). Moreover, the HR-XPS C 1s spectra of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C are fitted into four peaks assigned to C-C/C=C (284.4 eV), C-N (285.3 eV), C-O (286.4 eV), and C=O (288.9 eV) (Figure \$14, Supporting Information).<sup>[19]</sup> The obviously decreased C-O species in the MnSAC-C confirm that the H2 treatment could take away a lot of O species from the carbon supports. In addition, Raman spectra of three samples display two peaks at ≈1596 and 1348 cm<sup>-1</sup> corresponding to G band and D band, respectively (Figure \$15, Supporting Information). The calculated  $I_D/I_G$  ratio of MnSAC-O/C (0.98) and MnSAC-C (0.97) is close, demonstrating a similar defect degree for both of the carbon substrates. [20] The OC possesses a higher  $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$  value (1.02) than those of both MnSAC-O/C (0.98) and MnSAC-C (0.97), indicating that Mn doping enhances the graphitization degree of the samples to some extent.

X-ray absorption energy near-edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy and optimized DFT simulations were conducted to validate the coordination configuration of MnSAC-O/C. The Mn Kedge XANES spectra in Figure 2c illustrate that the energy absorption thresholds of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C are situated between those of MnO and Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, elucidating that the valence state of Mn in the two MnSAC samples is between +2 and +3. The linear fitting XANES data of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C in Figure 2d indicate that the oxidation state of Mn in MnSAC-O/C is lower than MnSAC-C, in lines well with above XPS results. Fourier-transformed  $k^2$ -weighted EXAFS spectra for our catalyst and reference samples unveil the difference of the precise coordination environment between MnSAC-O/C and Mn phthalocyanine (MnPc). As shown in Figure 2e, MnSAC-O/C exhibits a dominated peak at ≈1.59 Å, which is larger than the first shell Mn—N scattering path of MnPc (1.44 Å). However, MnSAC-C exhibits a prominent peak at  $\approx 1.44$  Å, close to the Mn-N bonding environment of MnPc. These results reveal that O atom may bond with N atom in the second coordination sphere. Meanwhile, Mn-Mn scattering path can not be observed in both

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XPS N 1s spectrum of MnSAC-O/C. b) XPS Mn 2p spectra of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C. c) Mn K-edge XANES spectra of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C, Mn foil, MnO, Mn3O4, MnPc, Mn2O3, and MnO2. d) Linear fitting curves of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C and references derived from corresponding Mn K-edge XANES spectra. e) Mn K-edge FT-EXAFS spectra of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C, MnPc, Mn foil, and Mn2O3. f) Wavelet transform of Mn K-edge EXAFS for MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C, Mn foil, and MnPc. g) Schematic atomic interface model of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C before and after O incorporation (Mn: purple, N: blue, and O: red). FT-EXAFS fitting curves of h) MnSAC-O/C (inset is the corresponding schematic model) and i) MnSAC-C at Mn K-edge.

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C compared with Mn foil, demonstrating the existence of isolated Mn sites. Furthermore, wavelet transform (WT) contour plots of Mn K-edge analysis indicate that both MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C only show one intensity maximum at 3.92 and 3.76 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in k space, which are different with Mn foil (5.85 Å<sup>−</sup>1) and Mn2O3 (5.66 Å<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure [2f;](#page-4-0) Figure S16, Supporting Information). This phenomenon is in good agreement with the above discussion that Mn in MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C exists as atomically dispersed centers without metal nanoparticles.

Since the first shell in MnSAC-O/C is not similar to Mn—N in MnPc and Mn−O bonds in Mn2O3, it is reasonable to deduce that the O in the second shell of MnSAC-O/C may cause the distortion of the coordination environment for Mn atoms. Thus, DFT simulation is adopted to verify whether oxygen is connected to peripheric N or central Mn atom. The established MnN3O-C and MnN4-O/C configurations show a thermodynamically favorable formation energy (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Compared with MnN3O-C configuration, the MnN4-O/C configuration possesses better ORR activity, as discussed below. More importantly, O atom bonds with N atom in the second coordination sphere rather than the nuclear Mn atom, which causes an asymmetrical extension of the initial Mn—N bonds, as displayed in Figure [2g.](#page-4-0) It is also fully consistent with the above EXAFS analysis. Least-square EXAFS fitting is conducted to extract the structural parameters at Mn K-edge (Figure [2h,i;](#page-4-0) Figure S18, Supporting Information), implying that the fitting curves match well with the experiment spectra of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C. The results demonstrate that the central Mn atom of MnSAC-O/C sample shows a coordination number of about four, directly connected by four N atoms, with one O atom connected to peripheric N and forms a MnN4-O/C configuration. The isolated Mn atom in MnSAC-C sample is coordinated with four N atoms to form a MnN4 configuration. The incorporation of O atoms into the second shell of MnN4 moiety increases the mean length of Mn—N bond to 2.15 Å, compared with the mean Mn—N bond lengths of MnPc (1.96 Å) and MnSAC-C (1.93 Å), as illustrated in Table S6 (Supporting Information). According to the above analyses, it is concluded that Mn center in MnSAC-O/C sample is coordinated by four N atoms in the first coordination sphere, meanwhile, one O atom connects with one peripheric N and one C atom in the second shell (Figure [2h\)](#page-4-0). Due to the higher electronegativity of O, the distinctive configuration can effectively promote the electron transfer from O to N and then to central Mn atom, leading to an increased electron density around the Mn atom to regulate the intermediate adsorption free energy and finally boost the ORR activity (vide infra).

The electrochemical ORR performances of the catalysts were investigated by different electrochemical techniques in an alkaline solution. Linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) curves in **Figure [3](#page-6-0)**a show that the MnSAC-O/C exhibits the highest catalytic performance with a *E*1/2 and onset potential (*E*onset) of 0.898 and 1.054 V (vs RHE), respectively. In contrast, the ORR activity of the reference samples (*E*1/2 = 0.867, 0.780 and 0.882 V, *E*onset = 1.051, 0.885 and 0.982 V for MnSAC-C, OC and Pt/C, respectively) is inferior to the MnSAC-O/C. To study the effect of residual trace elemental Zn on ORR performance, the nitrogen-doped carbon (NC) was prepared using the same method as MnSAC-O/C, except without the addition of Mn salt. Figure S19 (Supporting Information) depicts that the small amounts of Zn do not play noticeable role in catalytic ORR performance (Note S1, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the ORR activity of the as-prepared MnSAC-O/C is better than those of most recentlyreported Mn-based and other non-noble metal ORR catalysts (Tables S1 and S2, Supporting Information). The superior performance of MnSAC-O/C was also proved by its lower Tafel slope (48.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) than those of MnSAC-C (71.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), OC (90.4 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and Pt/C (124.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure [3b\)](#page-6-0). Furthermore, the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of MnSAC-O/C reflected by the double-layer capacitances (*C*dl) was higher than those of MnSAC-C and OC (Figure [3c;](#page-6-0) Figure S20, Supporting Information), suggesting more exposed active sites for MnSAC-O/C. Turnover frequency (TOF) excluding the effect of ECSA, SBET and mass loading were also analyzed to evaluate the intrinsic activity of MnSAC-O/C and MnSAC-C. As emerged in Figure S21 (Supporting Information), the TOFs value of MnSAC-O/C is much higher than that of the MnSAC-C in the potential region of 0.88−0.94 V, validating higher intrinsic ORR activity of MnSAC-O/C. Its high intrinsic activity was also contributed by the faster electron transport during the electrochemical process, as confirmed by lower charge-transfer resistance (Rct) of MnSAC-O/C compared to MnSAC-C and OC (Figure S22, Supporting Information).

We further performed the rotating disk electrode (RDE) tests at different rotation rates and the corresponding Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plot measurements to study the electron transfer number (*n*) during ORR process. As displayed in Figure S23 (Supporting Information), MnSAC-O/C shows a linear increase in the limiting current density with increasing rotation rates, indicating that the ORR process follows a first-order reaction kinetics.[\[5b\]](#page-10-0) The *n* values calculated from the K–L plots at various potentials confirm a direct 4-electron ORR path. Furthermore, the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) test was used to investigate the peroxide species (HO2 <sup>−</sup>) yield (Figure [3d\)](#page-6-0). The peroxide species yield for MnSAC-O/C was calculated to be 1.5–16.6% and the electrontransfer number is 3.67–3.97 over the potential range of 0.2–0.8 V, demonstrating a high selectivity with four electron transfer pathways.

The durability of PGM-free catalysts is the key for device applications with a long-term operation. As can be seen in Figure [3e,](#page-6-0) only a slight decay in *E*1/2 (with 10 mV negative shift) was observed after 10 000 continuous potential cycles. We have also performed chronoamperometric measurements, which show a current density retention of 96.8% after operation for 40 000 s, confirming the outstanding stability for MnSAC-O/C (Figure [3f\)](#page-6-0). In contrast, only 75.7% current density retention was observed for Pt/C under the same condition. The MnSAC-O/C catalyst after the durability test was studied by HAADF-STEM, TEM, XRD, and XPS analyses. As shown in Figure S24 (Supporting Information), the Mn single atoms were still well-distributed in the carbon substrate without aggregation, and the main structure of MnSAC-O/C kept unchanged. In addition, the XRD pattern of MnSAC-O/C after the durability test still showed no Mn-based crystalline nanoparticles (Figure S25, Supporting Information). The HR-XPS N 1s and Mn 2p spectra in Figure S26 (Supporting Information) illustrate that the MnSAC-O/C after durability test nearly retained its atomic structure compared with the pristine sample. The above results indicate that MnSAC-O/C possesses structural robustness and excellent stability. Therefore, the ORR

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) LSV curves of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C, OC and 20 wt.% Pt/C catalysts in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. b) Tafel plots of MnSAC-O/C and the reference samples. c) Electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl), d) peroxide percentage and electron transfer number of MnSAC-O/C and the reference samples. e) LSV curves before and after 10 000 CV cycles for MnSAC-O/C and Pt/C. f) i-t curves of MnSAC-O/C and the reference samples at 0.7 V under 1600 rpm. g) The comparison of *E*1/2, *E*onset, *J*<sup>k</sup> at 0.85 V, *J*<sup>m</sup> at 0.85 V and relative current (i-t 40 000 s) for MnSAC-O/C and the reference samples. h) Tolerance to methanol of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C and Pt/C. i) LSV curves for MnSAC-O/C before and after adding 0.1 M KSCN in 0.1 M KOH.

performance of MnSAC-O/C is superior to those of MnSAC-C, OC and Pt/C in terms of the comprehensive comparison of *E*1/2, *E*onset, kinetic current density (*J*k), kinetic mass activity (*J*m), and durability (Figure 3g). The tolerance to methanol was measured by the chronoamperometric response method. After adding 5 mL of methanol, the relative current of MnSAC-O/C nearly unchanged (Figure 3h), whereas the relative current of Pt/C suddenly decreased, confirming that the MnSAC-O/C was free from the methanol crossover effect. The presence of atomically dispersed active sites was experimentally confirmed via thiocyanide (SCN–) poisoning test.[\[21\]](#page-11-0) Following the addition of 0.1 M KSCN in the O2-saturated electrolyte, a significant change occurred in the ORR polarization curve, with decreased onset potential and limiting current density (Figure 3i). After the RDE was washed with water to remove the SCN–, the LSV plot gained after and

before SCN– poisoning test nearly overlapped, suggesting the existence of atomically dispersed Mn sites.

In view of the superior ORR activity and stability, MnSAC-O/C was applied as the cathode catalyst in an aqueous ZAB to evaluate its potential for practical applications in energy storage devices. An alkaline ZAB based on the MnSAC-O/C cathode exhibits an open-circuit voltage of 1.48 V, which is higher than those of ZABs assembled using MnSAC-C (1.43 V) and Pt/C (1.45 V) (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-7-0). Besides, the MnSAC-O/C-based battery also shows a maximum power density of 223 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 372 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, much superior to those of the ZABs with MnSAC-C (128 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2), Pt/C (185 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2) as well as the most state-of-the-art Fe-based, Co-based and other non-precious metal catalysts [Figure [4b,c;](#page-7-0) Table S7, Supporting Information]. Moreover, the discharge voltages of the MnSAC-O/C-based battery at different current density

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Open circuit voltage, b) polarization and power density curves of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C and Pt/C-based ZABs. c) Comparison of peak power density and specific capacity for MnSAC-O/C and the state-of-the-art cathode catalysts. d) Galvanostatic discharge curves of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C and Pt/C-based ZAB at various current densities of 1, 5, 10, 20, and 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. e) Energy densities plots by galvanostatic discharge at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The specific energy was normalized based on the mass of consumed Zn of MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C and Pt/C. f) Digital photo of a fan with LED light powered by replacing one battery with the home-built ZAB. g) Long-term durability test for the MnSAC-O/C, MnSAC-C, or Pt/C+IrO<sub>2</sub>-based battery recharged by replacing the Zn anode and the electrolyte.

ranging from 1 to 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  outperformed those of MnSAC-C and Pt/C-based battery (Figure 4d), revealing its higher rate capability. When the current density was reset to 1 mA cm $^{-2}$ , the discharge voltage of MnSAC-O/C can restore to its initial state, suggesting that MnSAC-O/C-based ZAB possesses good reversibility. The galvanostatic discharging curves in Figure 4e demonstrate that the MnSAC-O/C-based ZAB delivers a specific energy density of 887 Wh kg<sub>Zn</sub> $^{-1}$  and a specific capacity of 794 mAh g<sub>Zn</sub> $^{-1}$  at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  – exceeded ZABs using MnSAC-C (797 Wh kg<sub>Zn</sub> $^{-1}$  and 753 mAh g<sub>Zn</sub> $^{-1}$ ) or Pt/C (830 Wh kg<sub>Zn</sub> $^{-1}$  and 704 mAh g<sub>Zn</sub> $^{-1}$ ) catalysts (Figure S27, Supporting Information). As a practical exemplification, MnSAC-O/C-based ZAB can power a fan with LED light (Figure 4f). Impressively, no obvious potential drop was observed in the galvanostatic charge—discharge cycles over 930-h testing at 5 mA cm $^{-2}$  for ZAB with MnSAC-

O/C+IrO $_2$  (mass ratio of 1:1) (Figure 4g). Under the same test condition, the charge/discharge voltage of the Pt/C+IrO $_2$ -based battery dropped evidently within 170 h. The MnSAC-C+IrO $_2$ -based ZAB also shows a good durability with a lifetime of over 250 h. The superior durability of the MnSAC-O/C catalyst in practical ZABs is attributed to the robust stability of MnSAC-O/C catalyst.

We also performed the potential-dependent in situ electrochemical Raman measurements and theoretical calculations to clarify the active sites and reveal the ORR mechanism. Figure 5a,b reproduces in situ Raman spectra for MnSAC-O/C, which show a noticeable peak near 1145 cm<sup>-1</sup> at an applied voltage of 0.8 V, which can be assigned to the O–O stretching vibration of superoxide ion  $(O_2^-)$ . [20,22] Meanwhile, a peak at  $\approx 1030$  cm<sup>-1</sup> attributable to the stretching vibration of hydroxide (OH<sup>-</sup>) gradually emerges as the potential shifts from 0.8 to 0.2 V.[20]

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Potential-dependent in situ electrochemical Raman spectra of MnSAC-O/C during ORR process in an O2-saturated alkaline electrolyte and b) corresponding magnified Raman spectra. c) ORR reaction pathway with the intermediates for MnN4-O/C. d) Free energy diagram for ORR process on MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C at U = 0.46 V. The pH of the used electrolyte is 13.

Accordingly, the peak appeared at ≈428 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> can be ascribed to Mn–OH species, which forms via the adsorption of OH species on the Mn center.[\[23\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the Raman peak at 816 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> attributable with Mn–\*O2, gradually becomes strong due to the enhanced O2 adsorption with increasing overpotential.[\[24\]](#page-11-0) The in situ Raman analyses clearly indicate that the Mn atom center is the main active site.

The electronic structure of the Mn site has significant effect on the adsorption behaviors of O-containing intermediate. The changes of Gibbs free energy for all oxygen species absorbed on MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C were gained based on DFT calculations. The whole ORR process for MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C is illustrated in Figure 5c and Figure S28 (Supporting Information), mainly involving four-electron/proton coupling steps. Obviously, the corresponding adsorption energies of O2 molecule on the active site in MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C are –3.63 and –3.50 eV, respectively, indicating that O2 is more stable to adsorb on the active site of MnN4-O/C through a spontaneous process (Figure S29, Supporting Information). The free energy difference between electronic steps for all oxygen intermediates absorbed on MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C at potentials of 0 and 0.46 V (vs RHE) were calculated (Figure 5d; Figure S30, Supporting Information). The largest free energy difference in the last electron-transfer step (\*OH + e– → \* + OH–) for MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C illustrates that OH\* desorption is the RDS. Compared with MnN4-O/C, MnN4-C required more extra energies to overcome the higher overpotential for this RDS at both potentials of 0.46 and 0 V (vs RHE). In addition, Gibbs free energy change of RDS for MnN3O-C is much higher than those for MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C, suggesting that MnN3O-C site is not conducive to \*OH desorption, thus resulting in the poor ORR activity (Figure S31, Supporting Information).

To further gain the comprehensive understanding of the electron redistribution behavior, charge density difference and Bader charge analyses have been implemented. As presented in **Figure 6**[a,b,](#page-9-0) the O doping in the second coordination sphere of MnN4 model leads to the larger electron redistribution around the MnN4 active site compared with MnN4-C model. Furthermore, Bader charge analysis demonstrates that MnN4-O/C site lost less electrons (0.45 e) to O-containing intermediate after \*OH adsorption than that of MnN4-C site (Figure [6c\)](#page-9-0), theoretically suggesting that a weaker interaction between Mn and OH\* in MnN4-O/C. The less net charge gains of adsorbed \*OH on

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Charge density differences and 2D cross-sections of charge density differences of a) MnN4-C and b) MnN4-O/C (cyan and yellow colors represent the charge depletion and accumulation, respectively). c) The optimized structure and Bader charge density difference analysis of \*OH adsorption at MnN4-C and MnN4-O/C. PDOS of Mn and \*OH after \*OH adsorption for d) MnN4-C and e) MnN4-O/C, respectively. f) Schematic diagram of Mn 3d orbitals for MnN4-O/C and MnN4-C counterpart after \*OH formation (Ef: Fermi level; d: d-band center).

<span id="page-10-0"></span>www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-journal.com

MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C site indicates a relatively weaker adsorption of OH\* in MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C compared with MnN<sub>4</sub>-C, thus facilitating the OH\* desorption to retain the active site for the following reaction. In addition, the projected density of states (PDOS) in Figure 6d,e exhibits that the 3d orbitals of Mn after OH\* adsorption on the MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C or MnN<sub>4</sub>-C atomic interface show a strong hybridization with O 2p orbital. The dz<sup>2</sup> orbital of Mn overlapping with the p, orbital of O formed  $\sigma$  bond, while the  $d_{vz}$  and  $d_{xz}$  orbitals of Mn with the  $p_v$  and  $p_v$  orbital of O could form  $\pi$  bonds, respectively. After the introduction of O-doping in the second coordination sphere of the Mn site, the decreased  $\pi$  orbital hybridization around Fermi level can be observed (Figure 6d,e), suggesting the weakened  $\pi$  bonds with adsorbed \*OH on Mn center in MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C. Furthermore, considering the asymmetry of MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C site, the average value of d-band center was calculated. The corresponding d-band centers of Mn are -1.082 and -1.058 eV for MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C and MnN<sub>4</sub>-C (Figure 6f), respectively. The shift of Mn-d orbitals toward lower energy level leads to more electronic occupancy of the antibonding states and thus yields a weaker  $\sigma$ and  $\pi$  bonds with adsorbates, demonstrating the weaker interaction between the Mn sites in MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C and the OH\* intermediates in RDS compared with MnN<sub>4</sub>-C. Therefore, the theoretical results matched well with our experimental observations, and the enhanced ORR performance for the MnSAC-O/C catalyst with MnN₄-O/C configuration was fully confirmed.

## 3. Conclusion

In summary, we have revealed that regulating Mn active site through O-doping at the second-shell of Mn center is beneficial for highly efficient and stable ORR. Our combined experimental and theoretical simulation studies confirmed that the MnSAC-O/C catalyst with MnN<sub>4</sub>-O/C active sites was successfully synthetized through a facile double solvent strategy. Impressively, such a distinctive site enabled much superior ORR performance compared with the MnSAC-C with MnN<sub>4</sub>-C site, as evidenced by the more positive  $E_{1/2}$ , larger TOF and better ZAB performance for MnSAC-O/C. Interestingly, the MnSAC-O/C based ZAB exhibited a long-term durability, significantly superior to MnSAC-C and commercial Pt/C based ZABs. In situ Raman characterization proved that the Mn metal central sites are the main active centers for ORR. DFT calculations further disclose that the Odoping in the second coordination shell significantly decreased interactions of the Mn center with OH\* intermediates and promoted electron transfer in the last electron-transfer step, thus decreasing the energy barrier for the OH- formation and accelerating OH\* desorption, eventually leading to a high ORR efficiency and selectivity. This work deepens the understanding of the ORR mechanism of transition metal-based SACs via modulating the second-shell coordination environment by O-doping.

#### Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors are grateful to financial supports from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 51732002), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (buctrc202007). L.D. thanks the Australian Research Council (ARC, FL 190100126, CE230100032).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

oxygen doping, oxygen reduction reaction, second-shell coordination environment modulation, stable operation, Zn-air battery

> Received: August 15, 2024 Revised: November 2, 2024 Published online:

- [1] a) X. Han, T. Zhang, W. Chen, B. Dong, G. Meng, L. Zheng, C. Yang, X. Sun, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, A. Han, J. Liu, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2002753; b) Z. Chen, H. Niu, J. Ding, H. Liu, P.-H. Chen, Y.-H. Lu, Y.-R. Lu, W. Zuo, L. Han, Y. Guo, S.-F. Hung, Y. Zhai, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 25404; c) X. Tian, X. Zhao, Y.-Q. Su, L. Wang, H. Wang, D. Dang, B. Chi, H. Liu, E. J. M. Hensen, X. W. Lou, B. Y. Xia, Science 2019, 366, 850; d) S. Ding, L. He, L. Fang, Y. Zhu, T. Li, Z. Lyu, D. Du, Y. Lin, J.-C. Li, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022, 12, 2202984; e) M. Tong, F. Sun, Y. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Yang, C. Tian, L. Wang, H. Fu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 14005.
- a) X. Liu, L. Wang, P. Yu, C. Tian, F. Sun, J. Ma, W. Li, H. Fu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 16166; b) T. Tang, X. Bai, Z. Wang, J. Guan, Chem. Sci. 2024, 15, 5082; c) H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, Z. Cai, L. Wang, C. Tian, X. Zhang, H. Fu, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1901174.
- a) F. Liu, L. Shi, X. Lin, B. Zhang, Y. Long, F. Ye, R. Yan, R. Cheng, C. Hu, D. Liu, J. Qiu, L. Dai, Sci. Adv. 2023, 9, eadg0366; b) K. Gong, F. Du, Z. Xia, M. Durstock, L. Dai, Science 2009, 323, 760; c) Y. Li, C. Zhong, J. Liu, X. Zeng, S. Qu, X. Han, Y. Deng, W. Hu, J. Lu, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1703657; d) H. Liu, L. Jiang, Y. Sun, J. Khan, B. Feng, J. Xiao, H. Zhang, H. Xie, L. Li, S. Wang, L. Han, Adv. Energy Mater. 2023, 13, 2301223; e) K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 2404; f) Y. Zeng, J. Liang, C. Li, Z. Qiao, B. Li, S. Hwang, N. N. Kariuki, C.-W. Chang, M. Wang, M. Lyons, S. Lee, Z. Feng, G. Wang, J. Xie, D. A. Cullen, D. J. Myers, G. Wu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023, 145, 17643.
- [4] a) S. Ding, J. A. Barr, Q. Shi, Y. Zeng, P. Tieu, Z. Lyu, L. Fang, T. Li, X. Pan, S. P. Beckman, D. Du, H. Lin, J.-C. Li, G. Wu, Y. Lin, ACS Nano 2022, 16, 15165; b) L. Xiao, L. Qi, J. Sun, A. Husile, S. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Guan, Nano Energy 2024, 120, 109155.
- [5] a) C.-C. Hou, L. Zou, L. Sun, K. Zhang, Z. Liu, Y. Li, C. Li, R. Zou, J. Yu, Q. Xu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 7384; b) B. Huang, X. Tang, Y. Hong, L. Li, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2023, 62, 202306667; c) L. Zong, K. Fan, W. Wu, L. Cui, L. Zhang, B. Johannessen, D. Qi, H. Yin, Y. Wang, P. Liu, L. Wang, H. Zhao, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2104864; d) J. Z. Li, M. J. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Y. Wang, B. Y. Li, K. X. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. G. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. X. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More,

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>G. F. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935; e) G. Xing, M. Tong, P. Yu, L. Wang, G. Zhang, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202211098; f) L. Xiao, Z. Wang, J. Guan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2310195.
- [6] D. Banham, T. Kishimoto, Y. Zhou, T. Sato, K. Bai, J.-i. Ozaki, Y. Imashiro, S. Ye, *Sci. Adv.* **2018**, *4*, eaar7180.
- [7] X. Xie, C. He, B. Li, Y. He, D. A. Cullen, E. C. Wegener, A. J. Kropf, U. Martinez, Y. Cheng, M. H. Engelhard, M. E. Bowden, M. Song, T. Lemmon, X. S. Li, Z. Nie, J. Liu, D. J. Myers, P. Zelenay, G. Wang, G. Wu, V. Ramani, Y. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 1044.
- [8] L. Guo, S. Hwang, B. Li, F. Yang, M. Wang, M. Chen, X. Yang, S. G. Karakalos, D. A. Cullen, Z. Feng, G. Wang, G. Wu, H. Xu, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 6886.
- [9] a) W. Zhang, K. Mao, X. C. Zeng, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 18711; b) X. Bai, Y. Wang, J. Han, X. Niu, J. Guan, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *337*, 122966.
- [10] Y.-S. Wei, L. Sun, M. Wang, J. Hong, L. Zou, H. Liu, Y. Wang, M. Zhang, Z. Liu, Y. Li, S. Horike, K. Suenaga, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 16013.
- [11] W. Chen, J. Pei, C.-T. He, J. Wan, H. Ren, Y. Zhu, Y. Wang, J. Dong, S. Tian, W.-C. Cheong, S. Lu, L. Zheng, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 16086.
- [12] a) S.-H. Yin, S.-L. Yang, G. Li, G. Li, B.-W. Zhang, C.-T. Wang, M.-S. Chen, H.-G. Liao, J. Yang, Y.-X. Jiang, S.-G. Sun, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3033; b) J. Han, L. Shi, H. Xie, R. Song, D. Wang, D. Liu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2401766.
- [13] D. Zhao, K. Yu, P. Song, W. Feng, B. Hu, W.-C. Cheong, Z. Zhuang, S. Liu, K. Sun, J. Zhang, C. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3795.

- [14] H. Chang, Y.-F. Guo, X. Liu, P.-F. Wang, Y. Xie, T.-F. Yi, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *327*, 122469.
- [15] a) S. Zhuang, E. S. Lee, L. Lei, B. B. Nunna, L. Kuang, W. Zhang, *Int. J. Energy Res.* **2016**, *40*, 2136; b) J. Zhang, Z. Xia, L. Dai, *Sci. Adv.* **2015**, *1*, 1500564.
- [16] a) X. X. Wang, D. A. Cullen, Y.-T. Pan, S. Hwang, M. Wang, Z. Feng, J. Wang, M. H. Engelhard, H. Zhang, Y. He, Y. Shao, D. Su, K. L. More, J. S. Spendelow, G. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706758; b) N. Zhang, T. Zhou, M. Chen, H. Feng, R. Yuan, C. a. Zhong, W. Yan, Y. Tian, X. Wu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 111.
- [17] M. Tong, F. Sun, G. Xing, C. Tian, L. Wang, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202314933.
- [18] a) X. Lin, X. Zhang, D. Liu, L. Shi, L. Zhao, Y. Long, L. Dai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2303740; b) J. Guo, W. Zhang, L.-H. Zhang, D. Chen, J. Zhan, X. Wang, N. R. Shiju, F. Yu, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2102884.
- [19] a) W. Zhang, C.-H. Xu, H. Zheng, R. Li, K. Zhou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200763; b) X.-F. Cheng, J.-H. He, H.-Q. Ji, H.-Y. Zhang, Q. Cao, W.-J. Sun, C.-L. Yan, J.-M. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2205767.
- [20] M. Li, H. Zhu, Q. Yuan, T. Li, M. Wang, P. Zhang, Y. Zhao, D. Qin, W. Guo, B. Liu, X. Yang, Y. Liu, Y. Pan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2210867.
- [21] C. Liu, H. Li, F. Liu, J. Chen, Z. Yu, Z. Yuan, C. Wang, H. Zheng, G. Henkelman, L. Wei, Y. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 21861.
- [22] Y. Pan, X. Ma, M. Wang, X. Yang, S. Liu, H.-C. Chen, Z. Zhuang, Y. Zhang, W.-C. Cheong, C. Zhang, X. Cao, R. Shen, Q. Xu, W. Zhu, Y. Liu, X. Wang, X. Zhang, W. Yan, J. Li, H. M. Chen, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203621.
- [23] B. C. Batista, O. Steinbock, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 27045.
- [24] Y. Wang, P. Meng, Z. Yang, M. Jiang, J. Yang, H. Li, J. Zhang, B. Sun, C. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202304229.