---
source: Liu 等 - 2025 - Electronic Communication Between Single Atomic Nickel and Iron‐Nitrogen Species Promote the Bifuncti.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 84.777s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:33:17.148511Z
---

**Electronic Communication Between Single Atomic Nickel**

**and Iron-Nitrogen Species Promote the Bifunctional Oxygen Evolution and Reduction for Efficient Rechargeable Zinc-Air Battery**

*Qingqing Liu, Junsheng Chen, Liyun Cao,\* Ying Wang, Yirong Qi, Ying Wei, Qunzhi Ma, Jianfeng Huang, Xing Fan,\* and Yongqiang Feng\**

**The reversible oxygen evolution/reduction reaction (OER/ORR) have been recognized as the key electrochemical process for next-generation energy conversion and storage (ECS) devices, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries. However, the intrinsic large overpotential barrier caused by oxygen-containing intermediates (\*OH, \*O, and \*OOH) greatly hamper the reaction kinetics of OER/ORR. In this work, a dual-functional OER/ORR electrocatalyst composed of Ni single atomic sites and FeN0.0324 nanoclusters within a unique core–shell structure of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C is constructed. Benefiting from the efficient synergistic electronic effect of single atomic Ni and FeN0.0324, the FeN0.0324@NiN4/C exhibits excellent electrocatalytic activities for OER with an overpotential of 258 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and ORR with a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.89 V. A liquid zinc-air battery assembled by FeN0.0324@NiN4/C achieves a maximum peak power density of 180.9 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and cycle endurance stability of more than 150 h. Density functional theory (DFT) calculation indicates that the** *d***-band center near the Fermi level of NiN4-FeN4 is shifted more upward in comparison with pristine NiN4H, which effectively optimizes the adsorption of \*O and alleviates the troublesome OER process. This study provides a new platform for the construction of new OER/ORR electrocatalysts in the field of energy storage devices.**

**1. Introduction**

Increasing demand for energy is driving the pursuit of cleaner and more efficient technologies for energy conversion and

Q. Liu, J. Chen, L. Cao, Y. Wang, Y. Qi, Y. Wei, Q. Ma, J. Huang, Y. Feng School of Materials Science and Engineering

Shaanxi University of Science and Technology

Xi'an 710021, China

E-mail: [caoliyun@sust.edu.cn;](mailto:caoliyun@sust.edu.cn) [fengyq@sust.edu.cn](mailto:fengyq@sust.edu.cn)

X. Fan

Research Center for Carbon-based Electronics and Key Laboratory for the Physics and Chemistry of Nanodevices

School of Electronics Peking University Beijing 100871, China E-mail: [xingf@pku.edu.cn](mailto:xingf@pku.edu.cn)

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202424597>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202424597**

storage (ECS) devices, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[\[1–3\]](#page-10-0) Among them, rechargeable zinc-air batteries (ZABs) are considered to be the most promising candidates with high theoretical energy density (1086 Wh kg<sup>−</sup>1) and relatively low cost.[\[4,5\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, high-efficiency ZAB relies on the fast kinetic reaction rate of reversible cathodic catalysts toward oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[\[6,7\]](#page-10-0) The large intrinsic overpotential obstacle of OER/ORR caused by three oxygen-containing intermediates (\*OH, \*O, and \*OOH) extensively hampers the widespread application of ZAB devices at the root. Up to now, noble metal platinumbased catalysts with optimal reaction intermediates binding energy dominate the apex of volcano plot,[\[8\]](#page-10-0) but the high cost and low stability have imposed scientists to pursue more reasonable non-precious metal-based catalysts as alternatives.[\[9,10\]](#page-10-0)

Fortunately, transition metal–nitrogen– carbon (TM–N–C, TM = Fe, Co, Ni, etc.) materials especially Fe–N–C in the Fe– Nx coordination environment have been

considered as one of the most promising ORR electrocatalysts.[\[11–13\]](#page-10-0) The binding energy of the reactive \*OH, \*O, and \*OOH could be optimized by tailoring the *d*-band electronic structures and spin state of M–N–C.[\[14,15\]](#page-10-0) Li et al. reported that anchoring Fe–N–C on the Ti3C2Tx MXene support induces remarkable Fe 3*d* electron delocalization and spin-state transition of Fe (II) ions, resulting in a twofold ORR activity improvement of pristine Fe–N–C.[\[16\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, it was demonstrated that the excellent electrocatalytic performance of Fe–N–C stems from the FeNx moiety. Steering the coordination number of Fe with N could optimize the binding energy with oxygen, thus accelerating the electrochemical reaction kinetics.[\[17–20\]](#page-10-0) On the other hand, the reaction kinetics of OER closely associated with the adsorption and desorption capacity of oxygen-containing intermediates could be promoted by tuning the electronic states around the Fermi level.[\[21–23\]](#page-10-0) For instance, a light-induced reversible geometric conversion of a cell unit between octahedral NiO6 and square planar NiO4 with an alternative electronic

www.afm-journal.de

state near Fermi level achieved an efficient charge transfer process during OER and bypassed the potential limiting step (PLS) of \*OOH/\*O formation.[23] Li et al. further uncovered that the adsorption of oxygen-containing intermediates at fully 3*d*-occupied Ni<sup>2+</sup> sites can be improved by introducing the highly oxygenophilic Fe species with unpaired electrons, resulting in the electron donation from Ni to Fe through the Ni-O-Fe bond in a Fe-doped Ni-based metal-organic framework (MOF).[22,24] For a practical application of ZABs, it is desirable to design a bifunctional electrocatalyst that can operate both for OER and ORR. In order to maximize metal utilization efficiency, single-atom catalysts (SACs) have attracted full attention. [25-28] However, the activity of SACs catalysts in ZABs is greatly limited due to the strong adsorption of oxygen-containing intermediates and the slow dissolution of metal atoms in the electrolyte. [29,30] To this end, it is rational to synergistically combine SAC with MN<sub>v</sub> to improve the electrocatalytic activity.[31-33] The synergetic electron interaction between the MN<sub>v</sub> moieties and SAC active sites could not only favor the adsorption energy of the reaction intermediates and reduce the energy barrier of the PLS process,<sup>[34]</sup> but optimize the connectivity of the hydrogen bonding network in the electrical double layer (EDL) due to the interfacial charge redistribution.[35]

Herein, the interfacial charge redistribution was realized in the core-shell architecture where the FeN<sub>0.0324</sub> nanoparticles serve as the core and the Ni-decorated graphitic carbon layer as the outer shell (denoted as  $FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C$ ) derived from Fe and Ni co-doped zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 (ZIF-8). Taking advantage of various experimental techniques including aberration-corrected high-angle-annular-dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-HAADF-STEM), Xray absorbance spectrum (XAS) and operando Raman spectroscopy, the spatial configuration and electronic structure of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was unveiled. Profiting from the efficient synergistic electronic effect of single atomic Ni sites and FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>, the as-prepared FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C exhibited excellent electrocatalytic activities of OER with an overpotential of 258 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and ORR with a half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of 0.89 V. In addition, a liquid ZAB assembled by FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C achieved a maximum peak power density of 180.9 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and a cycle endurance stability of more than 150 h. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further revealed that the charge redistribution in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C tailored the *d*-band center near the Fermi level, which effectively optimizes the adsorption of \*O and alleviates the troublesome PLS process. This work provides an efficient route for the construction of metal-air battery catalysts with high OER/ORR activity by exploring the electronic interaction between single-atom sites and nanoclusters.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The core–shell architecture of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was fabricated by introducing Fe<sup>3+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup> during the synthesis of Zn-containing polyhedral ZIF-8 (Figure S1, Supporting Information), followed by thermal pyrolysis of the as-synthesized Fe/Nidoped ZIF-8 under Ar atmosphere. At elevated temperatures, Zn<sup>2+</sup> was evaporated from the MOF skeleton, leading to a 3D porous carbon matrix. While the Fe<sup>3+</sup> coordinated with N moiety in the organic linker of 2-methylimidazole (2-Melm) trans-

formed to  $FeN_{0.0324}$  nanoparticles as the core, and  $Ni^{2+}$  migrated to the carbon shell in the form of NiN4 as illustrated in **Scheme 1**. The crystal structure of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was identified by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As displayed in Figure 1a, the peaks located at 43.68°, 50.66° and 74.72° in the XRD pattern of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C could be indexed to the (111), (200) and (220) facets of cubic FeN<sub>0.0324</sub> (JCPDS Card No. 75–2127),<sup>[20]</sup> respectively. While the signal at  $\approx 26^{\circ}$  was assigned to the (002) plane of graphitic carbon. Notably, the peak of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub> in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was downshifted compared with FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C possibly due to the interaction with Ni species in the carbon shell. The Raman spectrum of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C showed D and G bands at 1342 and 1587 cm<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 1b), and the intensity ratio of  $I_D/I_C$  was determined to be 0.98, larger than that of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C (0.92) but smaller than that of NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (1.02), indicative of relatively favorable structure defects existed in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C.<sup>[19]</sup> The  $N_2$  adsorption/desorption isotherms of FeN $_{0.0324}$ @NiN $_4$ /C showed a typical type I/IV isotherms with multi-level pores distribution (the total pore volume of 0.39 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), possessing a Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area (S<sub>BET</sub>) of 473.72 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 1c; Figure S2, Supporting Information). The mesopores observed in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C would facilitate the mass transfer during the electrochemical process.

The morphology of  $\mathrm{FeN}_{0.0324} @\,\mathrm{NiN}_4/\mathrm{C}$  was then investigated by scanning electron microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM). As shown in Figure 1d and Figure S3 (Supporting Information), the 3D polyhedral architecture of the pristine ZIF-8 was maintained, wrapping with numerous nanotubes and nanoparticles generated during the pyrolysis in the presence of Fe catalyst. A similar case was found in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C (Figure \$4, Supporting Information), whereas the surface of NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was relatively clean (Figure S5, Supporting Information). A closer inspection from the high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) images (Figure 1e; Figure S6, Supporting Information) revealed a core-shell structure, where a plane spacing of 0.208 nm in the core corresponds to the (111) facet of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>, [20] and the lattice fringe of 0.34 nm belongs to the C (002) plane as the outer shell, which was inconsistent with the 2D peak observed in Raman spectrum.<sup>[36]</sup> Selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure S7, Supporting Information) further unveiled the diffraction rings of (200) and (111) lattice for FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>, and (002) for the graphitic carbon shell. Fascinatingly, the line-scanning intensity profile in the HAADF-STEM image of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C along the green line in Figure 1f illustrated the FeN<sub>0.0324</sub> species predominately distributed in the core, while in the outer carbon shell dispersed trace of Ni species. AC-HAADF-STEM technique was employed to further analyze the topographic characteristics of  $FeN_{0.0324}$  @NiN<sub>4</sub>/C. As depicted in Figure 1g, the bright spots marked by the orange circles in the carbon shell were identified as single-atomic Ni, and the FeN<sub>0.0324</sub> with a characteristic (111) crystal plane located at the core. The spatial configuration of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was further confirmed by the electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) collected at site 1 in the core region (yellow) and site 2 in the shell region (orange area) marked in Figure 1g. As shown in Figure 1h and Figure S8 (Supporting Information), in the carbon shell region only the Ni L-edge was detected and Fe L-edge in the core moiety.[37,38] Moreover, the corresponding elemental mapping images (Figure 1i) verified a uniform distribution of Fe in the

6163202. 2025, 25, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202424597 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the Common Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the Common Library of the Common Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the Common Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the Common Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the Common Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the Common Library on (0601/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthetic process of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C.

core and Ni mainly in the carbon shell. The above result vividly uncovered that the core–shell architecture of  ${\rm FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C}$ , featuring a  ${\rm FeN_{0.0324}}$  as the core and Ni-decorated carbon as the shell. In addition, the Fe content was determined to be 2.86 wt.% and Ni was 0.3 wt.% in  ${\rm FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C}$  as revealed by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) measurement.

In order to further investigate the coordination and electronic structure of Fe and Ni species in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements were performed. As shown in the Fe K-edge XANES spectra (Figure 2a), the absorption edge of  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324} @ \text{NiN}_4/\text{C}$  located between FeO and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, far from Fe foil, indicative of a high oxidation state of Fe species in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C.[34] The Fourier-transformed (FT) EXAFS spectra of the Fe K-edge of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2b) exhibited strong peaks at ≈2.3 and ≈4.5 Å, which could be attributed to the Fe-Fe bond, indicating the presence of Fe clusters in the FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C.[39] The shoulder peak at  $\approx$ 1.5 Å was attributed to Fe-N/O scattering path. Further fitting the FT-EXAFS spectra of the Fe K-edge of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C and FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C (Figure 2c; Figure S9 and Table S1, Supporting Information) disclosed the coordination number (CN) of the Fe-Fe path is 3.7 and Fe-N/O is 1.3. Besides, the wavelet-transform (WT) of the k<sup>3</sup>-weighted EXAFS of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2d) also confirmed the existence of Fe-N/O clusters.[40] Meanwhile, for the Ni K-edge XANES spectrum of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2e) and NiN<sub>4</sub>/C(Figure S10, Supporting Information), the absorption edge was higher than that of Ni foil but extremely close to NiO, indicating that Ni in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was in a divalent oxidation state.[41] In addition, the FT-EXAFS spectra at the Ni K-edge of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2f) displayed a dominant peak at ≈1.4 Å attributed to the Ni-N/O bond, and the absence of Ni-Ni path indicated the presence of isolated Ni atoms coordinated with N/O atoms.[42] Moreover, the CN of the Ni-N/O path of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C is 4.0 (Figure 2g; Table S2, Supporting Information), suggesting the Ni atoms were coordinated with four N/O atoms. The WT contour plot for

FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2h) further confirmed the Ni–N/O coordination.

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to analyze the surface valence state of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure \$11 and Table \$3, Supporting Information). The high-resolution C1s spectra of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure S11, Supporting Information) showed four main peaks at 284.6, 285.4, 287.8, and 290.4 eV, corresponding to C = C, C-O/C = N, C = O/C-Nand O-C = O, respectively.[43] The deconvoluted N 1s spectra of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2i; Table S4, Supporting Information) can be divided into five peaks, including pyridinic N (398.4 eV, 38.6 at%), pyrrolic N (399.4 eV, 30.4 at%), metallic N (401.0 eV, 21.9 at%), graphitic N (402.4 eV, 2.8 at%) and oxidized N (405.5 eV, 6.3 at%).[44] The higher pyridinic N was the primary active site favorable for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) process.<sup>[45]</sup> In the Fe 2p spectrum of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2j), the peaks located at 709.95 and 714.91 eV were assigned to Fe<sup>2+</sup> and satellite peaks of Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub>, respectively and the peaks at 722.85 and 730.15 eV were recognized as the same species of Fe 2p<sub>1/2</sub>. [46] For the high-resolution Ni 2p spectrum of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 2k), the peaks located at 854.95 and 872.21 eV were assigned to the spin-orbital splitting of Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$ , and the signals at 860.15 and 879.85 eV should be the satellite peaks, indicative of the presence of Ni<sup>2+</sup> in the core–shell  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324} @ \text{NiN}_4/\text{C}$ . It was worth noting that the Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peak in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C up-shifted by 0.57 eV while the Ni peak down-shifted by 0.59 eV compared with FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C and NiN<sub>4</sub>/C, indicating the electron transfer occurred in  $FeN_{0.0324}$ @NiN<sub>4</sub>/C from Fe in the core of  $FeN_{0.0324}$  to the Ni decorated in the carbon shell.[47] Such an interfacial charge polarization in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C would facilitate the absorption of reactants and thus promote the electrochemical reaction.<sup>[48]</sup>

The electrocatalytic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance of  $FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C$  was evaluated in 1 m KOH aqueous solution using a standard three-electrode system. For comparison,  $FeN_{0.0324}/C$ ,  $NiN_4/C$ , and commercial benchmarks  $IrO_2$  and Pt/C were also tested as reference under the same condition. To be accurate, the reference electrodes were calibrated against the

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) XRD patterns, b) Raman spectra, and c) N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C (red), NiN4/C (blue), and FeN0.0324/C (black). d) TEM image, and e) HRTEM image of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. f) HAADF-STEM image of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C and the line scan intensity profile along the green frames. g) AC-HAADF-STEM image, and h) corresponding EELS of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. i) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping for C, N, Fe, and Ni in FeN0.0324@NiN4/C.

homemade reversible hydrogen potential (RHE) prior to testing (Figure S12, Supporting Information).[\[44\]](#page-10-0) For data reproducibility, each sample was prepared and tested for five batches (Figure S13, Supporting Information). As displayed in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-5-0) the polarization curve of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C exhibited an outstanding OER activity among all the catalysts. To deliver a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the FeN0.0324@NiN4/C required an overpotential (10) of 258 mV, much lower than that of IrO2 (298 mV) and FeN0.0324/C (409 mV), whereas the NiN4/C turned out to be almost OER-inactive. Notably, the molar ratio of Fe/Ni played a

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Fe K-edge XANES spectra and b) FT-EXAFS spectra of sample FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, with Fe2O3, FeO and Fe foil as references. c) Experimental and fitted FT-EXAFS curves at the Fe K-edge of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. d) Wavelet transform of the *k*3-weighted EXAFS data of Fe foil, Fe2O3, and FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. e) Ni K-edge XANES spectra and f) FT-EXAFS spectra of sample FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, with NiO and Ni foil as references. g) Experimental and fitted FT-EXAFS curves at the Ni K-edge of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. h) Wavelet transform of the *k*3-weighted EXAFS data of Ni foil, NiO and FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. High-resolution XPS spectra of i) N 1s, j) Fe 2p, and k) Ni 2p of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, NiN4/C and FeN0.0324/C.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) OER polarization curves of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C and reference samples. b) The Tafel slope curves of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, NiN4/C, FeN0.0324/C and IrO2. c) Chronoamperometric current–time curves for OER of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. d) LSV curves, e) Tafel plots for ORR of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, NiN4/C, FeN0.0324/C and Pt/C tested in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution. f) Current–time (i–t) chronoamperometric responses for ORR of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C and Pt/C (the inset gives the methanol durability test of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C and Pt/C). g) Comparison of the <sup>10</sup> in 1.0 m KOH for FeN0.0324@NiN4/C with recently-reported OER electrocatalysts. h) Comparison of the E1/2 for FeN0.0324@NiN4/C with recently-reported ORR electrocatalysts in 0.1 m KOH.

critical role in the OER activity (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The corresponding Tafel slope of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, IrO2, FeN0.0324/C, and NiN4/C derived from the LSV curves were calculated as 45.7, 59.8, 87.3 and 266.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, indicating the much more favorable reaction kinetics of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C than other catalysts (Figure 3b). Besides, the charge transfer kinetics of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C was further assessed by the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement. According to the Nyquist plots, the charge transfer resistance (Rct) value of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C was 5.7 Ω (Figure S15, Supporting Information), much lower than that of FeN0.0324/C (14.5 Ω) and NiN4/C (199.8 Ω), implying a faster electron transfer process of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C during the electrochemical reaction. The worse activity of NiN4/C may be partially caused by the lack of FeN0.0324/C core as active sites and carbon nanotubes as conductive channels. The double-layer capacitance (Cdl) was then calculated from the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves in the non-Faradic region at a scan rate from 20 to 120 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S16, Supporting Information), which was proportional to the electrochemical surface area (ECSA). The highest Cdl value of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C (21.5 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) indicated that it possessed relatively larger ECSA, which can expose more reactive sites. The ECSA-normalized LSV curves further conformed to the superior intrinsic OER activity of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C compared with FeN0.0324/C and NiN4/C, (Figure S17, Supporting Information), even though the BET surface area of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C was slightly lower than that of NiN4/C. Besides, the chronoamperometry tests demonstrated that FeN0.0324@NiN4/C could withstand long-term operation under a chronoamperometric current density of 15 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for more than 100 h (Figure 3c). In addition, the OER performance of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C outperformed most of the recently-reported OER electrocatalysts (Figure 3g; Table S5, Supporting Information).

The ORR performance of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C was then measured using a rotating electrode in an O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution. First, the CV curves of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C were

ADVANCED FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS 1616928, 2025, 25, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202424597 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

collected in O<sub>2</sub>- and N<sub>2</sub>-saturated solutions, respectively (Figure \$18, Supporting Information). As can be seen, a distinct cathodic peak at 0.87 V was clearly observed in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated solution, while it was absent in N2-saturated medium, indicating the oxygen reduction ability of  $FeN_{0.0324}$ @NiN<sub>4</sub>/C. Figure 3d and Figure S19 (Supporting Information) displayed the ORR polarization curves of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C and the control samples measured with a rotating speed of 1600 rpm. Obviously, FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C exhibited excellent ORR activity with an onset potential of 1.02 V. The half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  of  $FeN_{0.0324}$ @NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was determined as 0.89 V, much larger than that of Pt/C (0.87 V),  $FeN_{0.0324}/C$  (0.86 V) and  $NiN_4/C$  (0.68 V). In addition, the smaller Tafel slope (Figure 3e) of  $FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C$  (91.8 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) suggested a superior reaction kinetics compared with Pt/C  $(120.0 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ ,  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324}/\text{C}$   $(106.9 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$  and  $\text{NiN}_4/\text{C}$ (225.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). The LSV curves at varied rotational rates (400-2500 rpm) of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C were measured using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) (Figure \$20a, Supporting Information). The Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots (Figure S20b, Supporting Information) show the linear correlation, demonstrating that the catalytic ORR procedure of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C follows the 4-electron transfer pathway. Furthermore, the electron transfer number (n) and hydrogen peroxide yield (H2O2%) were calculated by the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) test (Figure S21, Supporting Information), which strongly confirmed that FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C catalyzes O<sub>2</sub> through a 4-electron transfer pathway.[49] The chronogalvanometric measurements disclosed that FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C maintained a current density of 90.2% after 16 h reaction (Figure 3f), which was significantly better than the commercial Pt/C. Besides, FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C exhibited better tolerance to methanol poisoning (inset of Figure 3f). In addition, it was worth mentioning that the ORR performance of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C was comparable to or even better than the previously-reported ORR catalysts (Figure 3h; Table S6, Supporting Information). In order to further reveal the structure and chemical stability of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C, the SEM, TEM, and XRD patterns after the long-term durability test in the OER and ORR process were collected. it was unveiled that the morphology and crystal structure of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C maintained stable (Figures S22 and S23, Supporting Information).

To identify the intrinsic active site of the  $FeN_{0.0324} @ NiN_4/C$  catalyst, potassium thiocyanide (KSCN) and ethylenediaminete-traacetic acid disodium (EDTA) were used as poisoning agents to clarify the contribution of  $FeN_{0.0324}$  and single-atomic  $NiN_4$  species. [31,32] It could be deduced that both  $FeN_{0.0324}$  and single-atomic  $NiN_4$  species contribute to the OER and ORR activity, while the former likely played a dominant role (Figure S24, Supporting Information).

To gain deeper insight into the two types of active sites on  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324} @ \text{NiN}_4 / \text{C}$  and particularly understand the boosted activity upon the decoration of single Ni atoms onto the outer shell of  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324}$ , first-principle calculations were performed to study the stepwise OER process (as the ORR is the reversal of OER). Three models of  $\text{NiN}_4 + \text{H}$ ,  $\text{N}_4$ - $\text{FeN}_4$  and  $\text{NiN}_4$ - $\text{FeN}_4$  were constructed, representing  $\text{NiN}_4 / \text{C}$ ,  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324} / \text{C}$  and  $\text{FeN}_{0.0324} @ \text{NiN}_4 / \text{C}$ , respectively (**Figure 4a**–c). The reaction pathway of  $\text{O}_2$  revolution via \*OH, \*O, \*OOH, and \*OO intermediates was considered for the calculation of Gibbs free energy of each step (Figure 4d–f).

For NiN<sub>4</sub>H, the weak adsorption of \*O leads to an excessively high energy barrier for the conversion of \*OH to the intermediate \*O (2.20 eV) as the rate-determining step (RDS), resulting in the large overpotential of 0.97 V at the single Ni site on NiN<sub>4</sub>H (Figure 4d). On N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>, if OER proceeds at Ni vacancy, the formation of \*OOH become more sluggish with an energy barrier of 1.93 eV, while the overpotential decreases to 0.70 V (Figure 4e). For comparison, in the case of NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>, the RDS process changes to the absorption of \*OH via water dissociation, and the corresponding overpotential value further decreases to 0.57 V if OER occurs at the single Ni site in the presence of the N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> substrate, which reflects a significantly higher OER kinetics (Figure 4f). These results suggest that the anchored single Ni atoms on N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> substrate can not only optimize the activity of N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> but more importantly directly act as highly active centers to promote OER kinetics, partially rationalizing the experimentally observed high electrochemical activity of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C. To further elucidate the electronic structure and electrocatalytic activation mechanism of single Ni atoms on the intrinsic activity of N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> for OER, DFT calculations were performed to obtain the projected density of states (PDOS) for NiN<sub>4</sub>H and NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>. The *d*-band center (ε<sub>d</sub>) of NiN<sub>4</sub>H and NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> near the Fermi level are calculated to be -0.76 (Figure 4i) and -0.18 eV (Figure 4j), respectively. Notably, the  $\varepsilon_d$ of Ni site for NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> near the Fermi level was shifted upward, and such changes were favorable for the adsorption process of the reaction intermediates.<sup>[32]</sup> The changes in the *d*-band center in NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> enhance the adsorption of \*O, optimize the reaction steps, and lower the energy barriers of the OER. This fact can also be validated by the more electrons (0.63 e<sup>-</sup>) transferred to O in the O-absorbed NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub> structure than that of NiN<sub>4</sub>H (0.56 e<sup>-</sup>) based on a Bader charge analysis (Figure 4g,h). The differential charge density distribution map illustrates that there is obviously reversible charge transfer between NiN4 and FeN4 (Figure 4k), revealing the strong bonding effects between them.

The spacial charge redistribution of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C enable to induce the polarization of interfacial hydrogen bonding network in the EDL, which would affect the water dissociation kinetics. As indicated by DFT result that water dissociation process to produce \*OH intermediate is the RDS for FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C, in situ electrochemical Raman spectra were performed to further unveil the role of interfacial water molecules within the EDL. Using a Gaussian fitting, the broadband in the range of 3000-3800 cm<sup>-1</sup> for the O-H stretching mode  $(v_{O,H})$  of the interfacial water could be divided into three parts, including the 4-coordinated hydrogen-bonded water (4-HB-H<sub>2</sub>O), 2-coordinated hydrogen-bonded water (2-HB- $H_2O$ ) and free- $H_2O$  (Figure 5a,b). For  $FeN_{0.0324}$  @NiN<sub>4</sub>/C, the proportion of 4-HB-H2O and 2-HB-H2O is lower than that of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C, while the proportion of free-H<sub>2</sub>O with weak hydrogen bond connection is higher (Figure 5c). As depicted in Figure 5c, the proportion of free- $H_2O$  for  $FeN_{0.0324}$ @NiN<sub>4</sub>/C increase with the elevated potential, in agreement with the electrocatalytic activity, indicating that the interfacial free-H2O in the EDL is essential for the enhancement of OER/ORR activity.[35] The change in the vibrational frequency of the adsorbate along with the electrode potential is attributed to the vibrational Stark effect, while a higher Stark tuning rate indicates that the adsorbate is more sensitive to the electrode electric field.<sup>[50]</sup> The

1616928, 2025, 25, Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/0.1002/atmf.202424597 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library of [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (in [0601/2026], See the

www.afm-journal.de

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Top and side views of optimized structures of a) NiN<sub>4</sub>H, b) NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>, and c) N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>. Gibbs Free energy diagrams of the OER processes on d) NiN<sub>4</sub>H, e) N<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>, and f) NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>. g) The Bader charge of the Ni atom for NiN<sub>4</sub>H and NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>, respectively. h) The Bader charge of the Ni atom and O atom for O-absorbed NiN<sub>4</sub>H and NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>, respectively. Projected density of states (PDOS) of *d* orbitals of the Ni atom for i) NiN<sub>4</sub>H and k) NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>. The Fermi level (E<sub>f</sub>) is set to 0.00 eV. The *d*-band center (ε<sub>d</sub>) near the Fermi level is also labeled. k) Differential charge density distribution in the heterostructure interface of NiN<sub>4</sub>-FeN<sub>4</sub>. Blue and yellow areas represent the electron depletion and accumulation, respectively. Isosurface is set to 0.01 e/Bohr<sup>3</sup>.

Stark tuning rate of  $v_{\text{O-H}}$  in FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure 5d) is 130.8 cm<sup>-1</sup> V<sup>-1</sup> (4-HB-H<sub>2</sub>O) and 166.2 cm<sup>-1</sup> V<sup>-1</sup> (free-H<sub>2</sub>O), which is much higher than those of FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>/C (Figure S25, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the signals appeared at  $\approx$ 1060 and 1180 cm<sup>-1</sup> with potential increments that could be attributed to the M–OH and O–O stretching vibrations on FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C (Figure S26, Supporting Information).<sup>[51–53]</sup> These result indicated that the charge redistribution between FeN<sub>0.0324</sub> and NiN<sub>4</sub> in the core–shell structural FeN<sub>0.0324</sub>@NiN<sub>4</sub>/C

could facilitate the adsorption of \*OH to accelerate the water dissociation process from 4-HB- $H_2O$  to 2-HB- $H_2O$  and finally free- $H_2O$  (Figure 5e).

Encouraged by the excellent OER and ORR activities of  $FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C$ , a rechargeable liquid ZAB device was fabricated using  $FeN_{0.0324}@NiN_4/C$  as the cathodic catalyst with 6 M KOH solution containing 0.2 M zinc acetate as electrolyte (**Figure 6a**). For comparison, another ZAB device based on a mixture of  $IrO_2$  and Pt/C with a mass ratio of 1:1

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** In situ Raman spectra of O–H stretching mode for a) FeN0.0324@NiN4/C, b) FeN0.0324/C. c) Population changes plot of interfacial water from the in situ Raman results for FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. d) Frequency plot of changes in the O–H stretching modes in Raman spectra of interfacial water for FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. e) Schematic diagram of interfacial water splitting on FeN0.0324@NiN4/C surfaces.

was also prepared. As shown in Figure [6b,](#page-9-0) the open-circuit voltage (OCV) of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based ZAB is 1.49 V, larger than that of IrO2-Pt/C assembled battery (1.45 V). Furthermore, the FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based device delivered a maximum power density of 180.9 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [6c\)](#page-9-0), much higher than the IrO2-Pt/C counterpart (88.9 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2). The specific discharge capacity of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based battery holds a value of 814.1 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at a current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [6d\)](#page-9-0), which is significantly better than IrO2-Pt/C equipped device (646.5 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1). For continuous discharge at different current densities, the FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based ZAB showed better rate performance (Figure [6e\)](#page-9-0), featuring with a higher discharge voltage and a 10 mV drop in discharge potential, which was better than IrO2-Pt/C-based battery (with a 30 mV drop in potential).[\[54\]](#page-10-0) For a practical application as shown in Figure [6f,](#page-9-0) a single battery assembled by FeN0.0324@NiN4/C could light up the LED display. In addition, the cycling stability of the FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based ZAB was tested. After up to 900 charge-discharge cycles (150 h), FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based battery exhibited a slight voltage attenuation, which was much more stable compared to IrO2-Pt/Cbased battery (Figure [6g\)](#page-9-0). Overall, these results demonstrated that FeN0.0324@NiN4/C is a promising efficient OER/ORR bifunctional electrocatalyst for ZAB, which was superior to IrO2- Pt/C-based battery and comparable to many recently-reported liquid ZABs (Table S7, Supporting Information).

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a bifunctional efficient OER and ORR electrocatalyst composed of Ni single atomic sites and FeN0.0324 nanoclusters within a unique core–shell structure of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C was constructed and a liquid rechargeable ZAB device was

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Schematic diagram of the liquid ZAB device. b) The OCV, c) Polarization and power density curves, d) discharge curves at 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and e) Rate capability test at different current densities of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C (red) and IrO2-Pt/C (black) electrodes for liquid ZAB. f) Optical photograph of a single ZAB assembled by FeN0.0324@NiN4/C catalyst lighting up an LED display. g) Galvanostatic charging/discharging cycling curves of ZABs fabricated with FeN0.0324@NiN4/C (red) and IrO2-Pt/C (black) catalysts. (the inset gives the first and last thirty runs of the charge discharge curves for FeN0.0324@NiN4/C-based ZAB).

assembled. Benefiting from the efficient synergistic electronic effect of single atomic Ni and FeN0.0324, the FeN0.0324@NiN4/C catalyst exhibited excellent activities of OER with an <sup>10</sup> of 258 mV and ORR with a E1/2 of 0.89 V. In addition, liquid zinc-air batteries assembled by FeN0.0324@NiN4/C achieved a maximum peak power density of 180.9 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a cycle robust stability of more than 150 h. We further demonstrated that the vicinal Ni site can efficiently optimize the adsorption of \*O and alleviate the troublesome OER process over the FeN4, which is the fundamental reason for the experimentally observed excellent catalytic performance of FeN0.0324@NiN4/C. This work provides an efficient route for the design and construction of bifunctional OER/ORR electrocatalyst in the field of ECS-related devices.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

Q.L. and J.C. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 52072226, U22A20144, 22302005, 52073166), the Key Research and Development Program of Shaanxi (2024GX-YBXM-466), the Science and Technology Program of Weiyang District of Xi'an, China (202315, 202401), the Agricultural Science and Technology Innovation Drive project of Shaanxi Agricultural Department (NYKJ-2022-XA-08).

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>**Keywords**

electrocatalyst, electronic redistribution, oxygen evolution reaction, oxygen reduction reaction, zinc-air battery

> Received: December 13, 2024 Revised: January 12, 2025 Published online: February 3, 2025

- [1] W. Zhang, J. Zhang, N. Wang, K. Zhu, C. Yang, Y. Ai, F. Wang, Y. Tian, Y. Ma, Y. Ma, X. Zhang, L. Duan, D. Chao, F. Wang, D. Zhao, W. Li, *Nat. Sustain.* **2024**, *7*, 463.
- [2] K. Song, B. Yang, X. Zou, W. Zhang, W. Zheng, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 27.
- [3] Y. Wang, T. Luo, Y. Wei, Q. Liu, Y. Qi, D. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Zhang, X. Li, Q. Ma, J. Huang, X. Kong, G. Chen, Y. Feng, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2407495.
- [4] Q. Wang, S. Kaushik, X. Xiao, Q. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2023**, *52*, 6139.
- [5] L. Lyu, X. Hu, S. Lee, W. Fan, G. Kim, J. Zhang, Z. Zhou, Y.-M. Kang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 4803.
- [6] J. Chen, J. Huang, R. Wang, W. Feng, H. Wang, T. Luo, Y. Hu, C. Yuan, L. Feng, L. Cao, K. Kajiyoshi, C. He, Y. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Feng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *441*, 136078.
- [7] M. Shen, J. Liu, J. Li, C. Duan, C. Xiong, W. Zhao, L. Dai, Q. Wang, H. Yang, Y. Ni, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *59*, 102790.
- [8] J. Li, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2022**, *14*, 112.
- [9] V. Giulimondi, A. Ruiz-Ferrando, A. H. Clark, S. K. Kaiser, F. Krumeich, A. J. Martín, N. López, J. Pérez-Ramírez, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2206513.
- [10] W. Zhao, C. Luo, Y. Lin, G.-B. Wang, H. M. Chen, P. Kuang, J. Yu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 5540.
- [11] L. Yang, X. Zhang, L. Yu, J. Hou, Z. Zhou, R. Lv, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2105410.
- [12] M. Shen, Q. Liu, J. Sun, C. Liang, C. Xiong, C. Hou, J. Huang, L. Cao, Y. Feng, Z. Shang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *673*, 453.
- [13] J. Zhang, J. Zhang, F. He, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, D. Wang, S. Mu, H. Y. Yang, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2021**, *13*, 65.
- [14] Q. Jia, N. Ramaswamy, H. Hafiz, U. Tylus, K. Strickland, G. Wu, B. Barbiellini, A. Bansil, E. F. Holby, P. Zelenay, S. Mukerjee, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, 12496.
- [15] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, W. Liang, M.-T. Sougrati, F. Jaouen, B. Halevi, S. McKinney, G. McCool, C. Ma, X. Yuan, Z.-F. Ma, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 2418.
- [16] Z. Li, Z. Zhuang, F. Lv, H. Zhu, L. Zhou, M. Luo, J. Zhu, Z. Lang, S. Feng, W. Chen, L. Mai, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1803220.
- [17] R. Luo, R. Wang, Z. Meng, Y. Xia, H. Tang, *Adv. Compos. Hybrid Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 105.
- [18] P. Wan, S. Dong, J. Xiong, X. Jin, S. Lu, Y. Zhang, H. Fan, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *650*, 582.
- [19] Y. Yao, J. Wu, Q. Feng, K. Zeng, J. Wan, J. Zhang, B. Mao, K. Hu, L. Chen, H. Zhang, Y. Gong, K. Yang, H. Zhou, Z. Huang, H. Li, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2302015.
- [20] G. Li, K. Sheng, Y. Lei, J. Yang, Y. Chen, X. Guo, G. Chen, B. Chang, T. Wu, X. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *451*, 138823.
- [21] W. Guo, T. Yang, H. Zhang, H. Zhou, W. Wei, W. Liang, Y. Zhou, T. Yu, H. Zhao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *470*, 144241.
- [22] H. Zhang, T. Yang, H. Zhou, Y. Wang, X. Yang, W. Liang, D. Wu, P. Yuan, T. Yu, M. He, W. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2024**, *342*, 123391.
- [23] X. Wang, S. Xi, P. Huang, Y. Du, H. Zhong, Q. Wang, A. Borgna, Y.-W. Zhang, Z. Wang, H. Wang, Z. G. Yu, W. S. V. Lee, J. Xue, *Nature* **2022**, *611*, 702.
- [24] C.-F. Li, L.-J. Xie, J.-W. Zhao, L.-F. Gu, H.-B. Tang, L. Zheng, G.-R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116934.

- [25] B. Mohanty, S. Basu, B. K. Jena, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *70*, 444.
- [26] M. Yu, A. Li, E. Kan, C. Zhan, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 6816.
- [27] Y. Xie, F. Sun, K. Chang, G. Li, Z. Song, J. Huang, X. Cheng, G. Zhuang, Q. Kuang, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *11*, 2306911.
- [28] G. Qin, S. Sun, X. Zhang, Z. Han, Y. Li, G. Han, Y. Li, S. Zhu, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2024**, *69*, 103421.
- [29] A. Pedersen, K. Kumar, Y.-P. Ku, V. Martin, L. Dubau, K. T. Santos, J. Barrio, V. A. Saveleva, P. Glatzel, V. K. Paidi, X. Li, A. Hutzler, M.- M. Titirici, A. Bonnefont, S. Cherevko, I. E. L. Stephens, F. Maillard, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 6323.
- [30] X. Lu, Y. Li, P. Yang, Y. Wan, D. Wang, H. Xu, L. Liu, L. Xiao, R. Li, G. Wang, J. Zhang, M. An, G. Wu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *485*, 149529.
- [31] Y. Feng, W. Feng, J. Wan, J. Chen, H. Wang, S. Li, T. Luo, Y. Hu, C. Yuan, L. Cao, L. Feng, J. Li, R. Wen, J. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2022**, *307*, 121193.
- [32] T. Luo, J. Huang, Y. Hu, C. Yuan, J. Chen, L. Cao, K. Kajiyoshi, Y. Liu, Y. Zhao, Z. Li, Y. Feng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213058.
- [33] S. Sun, F. Yang, X. Zhang, J. Qian, K. Wei, J. An, Y. Sun, S. Wang, X. Li, Y. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *487*, 150673.
- [34] Z. Wang, X. Jin, R. Xu, Z. Yang, S. Ma, T. Yan, C. Zhu, J. Fang, Y. Liu, S.-J. Hwang, Z. Pan, H. J. Fan, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 8622.
- [35] L. Wu, W. Huang, D. Li, H. Jia, B. Zhao, J. Zhu, H. Zhou, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *137*, 202413334.
- [36] J. S. Park, A. Reina, R. Saito, J. Kong, G. Dresselhaus, M. S. Dresselhaus, *Carbon* **2009**, *47*, 1303.
- [37] Q. Hao, H. Zhong, J. Wang, K. Liu, J. Yan, Z. Ren, N. Zhou, X. Zhao, H. Zhang, D. Liu, X. Liu, L. Chen, J. Luo, X. Zhang, *Nat. Synth.* **2022**, *1*, 719.
- [38] H. T. Chung, D. A. Cullen, D. Higgins, B. T. Sneed, E. F. Holby, K. L. More, P. Zelenay, *Science* **2017**, *357*, 479.
- [39] S.-N. Zhao, J.-K. Li, R. Wang, J. Cai, S.-Q. Zang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107291.
- [40] X. Wan, Q. Liu, J. Liu, S. Liu, X. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Shang, R. Yu, J. Shui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2963.
- [41] S. Zhou, Y. Zhao, R. Shi, Y. Wang, A. Ashok, F. Héraly, T. Zhang, J. Yuan, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204388.
- [42] Y. Zhang, L. Jiao, W. Yang, C. Xie, H.-L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7607.
- [43] T. H. Nguyen, P. K. L. Tran, D. T. Tran, T. N. Pham, N. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *440*, 135781.
- [44] P. Li, F. Qiang, X. Tan, Z. Li, J. Shi, S. Liu, M. Huang, J. Chen, W. Tian, J. Wu, W. Hu, H. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2024**, *340*, 123231.
- [45] Y. Xu, R. Xie, Q. Li, J. Feng, H. Luo, Q. Ye, Z. Guo, Y. Cao, M. Palma, G. Chai, M.-M. Titirici, C. R. Jones, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2302795.
- [46] Y. Pan, Z. Wang, K. Wang, Q. Ye, B. Shen, F. Yang, Y. Cheng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2402264.
- [47] J. Jiao, N.-N. Zhang, C. Zhang, N. Sun, Y. Pan, C. Chen, J. Li, M. Tan, R. Cui, Z. Shi, J. Zhang, H. Xiao, T. Lu, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2200010.
- [48] H. Zhao, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Song, C. Li, K. Liu, D. Ma, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 25272.
- [49] M. Shen, W. Hu, C. Duan, J. Li, S. Ding, L. Zhang, J. Zhu, Y. Ni, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *629*, 778.
- [50] X. Chen, X.-T. Wang, J.-B. Le, S.-M. Li, X. Wang, Y.-J. Zhang, P. Radjenovic, Y. Zhao, Y.-H. Wang, X.-M. Lin, J.-C. Dong, J.-F. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 5289.
- [51] J.-C. Dong, X.-G. Zhang, V. Briega-Martos, X. Jin, J. Yang, S. Chen, Z.- L. Yang, D.-Y. Wu, J. M. Feliu, C. T. Williams, Z.-Q. Tian, J.-F. Li, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 60.
- [52] L. Guo, Z. Zhang, Z. Mu, P. Da, L. An, W. Shen, Y. Hou, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2406682.
- [53] A. Vasileff, X. Zhi, C. Xu, L. Ge, Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 9411.
- [54] X. Lin, Q. Li, Y. Hu, Z. Jin, K. M. Reddy, K. Li, X. Lin, L. Ci, H.-J. Qiu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2300612.