---
source: Liu 等 - 2025 - Synergistic Catalysts with Fe Single Atoms and Fe3 C Clusters for Accelerated Oxygen Adso.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 81.881s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:34:39.032447Z
---

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202501266 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202501266 *Electrocatalysts*

# **Synergistic Catalysts with Fe Single Atoms and Fe3C Clusters for Accelerated Oxygen Adsorption Kinetics in Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Chunlian Liu*+*, Ruizhe Yang*+*, Jiacheng Wang, Bowen Liu, Xiaowan Chang, Pingxian Feng, Xuanzhen Zhang, Lijie Zhong, Xiaoli Zhao, Li Niu, Shiyu Gan, Yuebin Xi, Ming Huang,\* and Huan Wang\**

**Abstract:** The design of cost-effective and efficient catalysts based on transition metal–based electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is crucial yet challenging for energy-conversion devices like metal–air batteries. In this work, we present a cost-effective strategy for preparing catalysts consisting of single-atomic Fe sites and Fe3C clusters encapsulated in nitrogen-doped carbon layers (FeSA-Fe3C/NC). The FeSA-Fe3C/NC electrocatalyst demonstrates outstanding ORR performance in alkaline electrolytes, achieving a high half-wave potential (*E*1/2 = 0.902 V), 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR selectivity, and robust methanol tolerance. The exceptional ORR catalytic performance is credited to the relatively substantial specific surface area and the optimal arrangement of active sites, including atomically dispersed Fe–N sites and synergistic Fe3C clusters. In situ spectroelectrochemical characterization and theoretical calculations verify that Fe3C clusters disrupt the symmetric electronic structure of Fe–N4, optimizing 3d orbitals of Fe centers, thereby accelerating O─O bond cleavage in \*OOH to boost ORR activity. Furthermore, a zinc–air battery constructed with FeSA-Fe3C/NC demonstrates excellent potential in energy storage application, yielding a maximum power density of 151.3 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> and robust cycling durability surpassing that of commercial Pt/C catalysts. This study establishes a cost-effective route for producing metal-based carbon electrocatalysts with exceptional performance using environmentally friendly raw materials.

#### *Introduction*

Energy scarcity has emerged as a major global challenge due to the extensive exploitation and consumption of fossil fuels,

[\*] C. Liu+, X. Chang, P. Feng, X. Zhang, L. Zhong, Prof. L. Niu, Prof. S. Gan, Prof. H. Wang

Guangdong Engineering Technology Research Center for Sensing Materials Devices, Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Sensing Materials Devices School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou 510006, China

E-mail: [cewanghuan@gzhu.edu.cn](mailto:cewanghuan@gzhu.edu.cn)

E-mail: [huangming@uestc.edu.cn](mailto:huangming@uestc.edu.cn)

R. Yang+, J. Wang, Prof. M. Huang Institute of Fundamental and Frontier Sciences, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu 611731, China

B. Liu, Prof. H. Wang

State Key Lab of Pulp and Paper Engineering, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, China

Prof. X. Zhao

School of Materials Science and Engineering, Xihua University, Chengdu 610039, China

Prof. Y. Xi, Prof. H. Wang

State Key Laboratory of Biobased Material and Green Papermaking, Qilu University of Technology, Shandong Academy of Sciences, Jinan 250353, China

- +] These authors contributed equally to this work.
- Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section

driving the urgent need for green and sustainable energy sources.[\[1–5\]](#page-9-0) Among these, zinc–air battery (ZAB) stands out as a clean and efficient energy conversion technology, offering advantages such as low cost, environmental friendliness, and high energy density, which have garnered significant attention from researchers.[\[6–10\]](#page-9-0) However, the development of ZAB faces challenges due to the slow kinetics of ORR.[\[11–13\]](#page-9-0) Although commercial Pt/C electrocatalysts demonstrate superior activity,[\[14–16\]](#page-9-0) their high cost and susceptibility to methanol and carbon monoxide poisoning during prolonged use limit their widespread application.[\[17\]](#page-9-0) Consequently, there is a critical requirement to create stable, high-performance, cost-effective, and antitoxicity catalysts to replace traditional noble metal–based catalysts, thereby enabling the widespread commercialization of ZABs.[\[18,19\]](#page-9-0)

Carbon-supported nonprecious metal-based catalysts are regarded as viable candidates to replace noble metal catalysts for ORR because of their cost-effectiveness, abundant resources, and comparable catalytic performance.[\[20–24\]](#page-9-0) Among these, Fe single-atom catalysts (Fe SACs) with symmetric coordination (Fe-N4-C) are considered among the leading potential substitutes and have been extensively studied for ORR.[\[25,26\]](#page-9-0) According to the Sabatier principle, an optimal active site for ORR requires a moderate binding strength to oxygen intermediates, striking a balance that is neither excessively strong nor too weak.[\[27,28\]](#page-9-0) Nonetheless, prior studies have shown that the symmetric electronic structure of Fe-N4-C does not facilitate optimal adsorption and desorption of oxygen intermediates, leading to suboptimal

catalytic activity.[\[29,30\]](#page-9-0) Therefore, disrupting this symmetric electronic structure could further enhance the electrocatalytic performance of Fe-N4-C catalysts. Recent reports suggest that coupling the Fe–N4 site with metallic clusters can significantly improve the catalytic activity of Fe-N4-C electrocatalysts.[\[31,32\]](#page-9-0) This enhancement is ascribed to the alteration of the d band center of Fe–N4, driven by interactions between Fe–N4 sites and the clusters. Therefore, simultaneously incorporating metallic nanoclusters into Fe-N4-C catalysts to tune the electronic property of Fe–N4 center presents a promising approach for enhancing electrocatalytic activity.

Currently, the tandem catalysts of metal single atoms and clusters always were produced by anchoring metal atoms or clusters onto organic ligands or by securing them on Ndoped carbon supports derived from porous graphene, carbon fibers/nanotubes, or metal–organic frameworks.[\[33–36\]](#page-9-0) Despite advancements in these techniques, developing cost-effective and scalable catalysts for practical applications remains challenging. Inspired by the natural iron–catechol complexes found in marine mussels,[\[37\]](#page-9-0) lignin—a 3D, reticulated macromolecule with a high carbon content of up to 60% and various conjugated structures—can coordinate with transition metal ions due to its intrinsic phenolic structure.[\[16,38–43\]](#page-9-0) However, achieving precise control over the synthesis procedures, particularly addressing the weak coordination of metal ions within lignin molecules and the limited anchoring of metal active sites on lignin-derived carbon, is costly, labor-intensive, and intricate. Therefore, it is essential to establish methodologically controllable and structurally adaptable methods for preparing cost-effective single atoms-cluster tandem catalysts on lignin-derived carbon matrix with large surface areas and outstanding electrocatalytic performance.

In this work, we present the synthesis of metal–lignin complexes to produce nitrogen-doped carbon featuring atomically distributed Fe–N4 sites and synergistic Fe3C clusters (referred to FeSA-Fe3C/NC). This structure is validated using high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and X-ray absorption fine structure analysis (XAFS). The resulting FeSA-Fe3C/NC features a hierarchical porous architecture with considerable specific surface area, which facilitate mass transport. In situ attenuated total reflectance surface enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR–SEIRAS) reveals that the formation of \*OOH intermediate is the rate-determining step in the ORR. Theoretical calculations suggests that the Fe3C clusters modulate the d band center of Fe center, refining the adsorption–desorption behaviors of reaction intermediates. Consequently, the tandem effect between Fe3C nanoclusters and Fe–N4 sites on N-doped carbon effectively reduces the reaction energy barrier and enhances ORR performance. The FeSA-Fe3C/NC demonstrates exceptional ORR performance (*E*1/2 = 0.902 V) and superior methanol tolerance, outperforming Pt/C under alkaline conditions. Furthermore, ZABs utilizing FeSA-Fe3C/NC exhibit outstanding power density (151.3 mW cm−2) and robust durability. This work offers a cost-effective synthetic strategy to fully exploit lignin for constructing tandem ORR catalysts composed of atomically dispersed metal single atoms and clusters, advancing the development of ZABs.

### *Results and Discussion*

The preparation process of the FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst is depicted in Figure [1a.](#page-2-0) Initially, alkali lignin is purified with ethanol to achieve uniform dispersion in alcohol solvent, followed by the addition of ferric nitrate. The lignin, with its rich functional groups, facilitates the dispersion of Fe atoms. During subsequent heating in an oil bath, the alcohol gradually evaporates, allowing the lignin to fully adsorb the Fe ions. After the mixture is completely dried, melamine and ethanol are added in a specific ratio for ball milling, which further promotes the uniform distribution of Fe ions.[\[44\]](#page-10-0) The subsequent two-step pyrolysis and acid leaching processes result in the formation of a catalyst composed of dispersed single-atomic Fe and Fe3C clusters on N-doped carbon matrix. As shown in Figure S1, the FeSA-Fe3C/NC sample exhibits a porous honeycomb structure with well-developed pores, which could increase the active site numbers and enhance the mass and electron transport during the electrochemical reaction. The SEM images of NC (synthesized without the addition of ferric nitrate) and FeSA (synthesized without the addition of alkali lignin) are presented in Figures S2 and S3, revealing that the pore structure of FeSA-Fe3C/NC is more developed than that of NC and FeSA. This enhancement is attributed to the iron precursor, which promotes the thermal decomposition of the N-doped carbon precursor, leading to a more developed pore structure within the carbon framework.[\[45\]](#page-10-0) To further confirm the atomic-level structure, the sample was characterized by HAADF-STEM. As shown in Figure [1b,](#page-2-0) numerous distinct bright spots (highlighted by yellow dotted circles) correspond to atomically dispersed Fe single atoms, whereas some small nanoclusters (marked with white dotted circles) are randomly distributed on the carbon framework. The HRTEM image reveals two faint lattice spacings of 0.201 nm and 0.210 nm, which are attributed to the (031) and (211) crystal planes of the Fe3C clusters, respectively, indicating their presence with low crystallinity.[\[46\]](#page-10-0) HAADF-STEM images and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0) further confirm the uniform distribution of C, N, and Fe within the N-doped carbon matrix, supporting the TEM results indicating the presence of Fe species as both single atoms and clusters.

X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure [2a\)](#page-3-0) of FeSA-Fe3C/NC sample exhibits two prominent peaks at approximately 26° and 44°, corresponding to the (002) and (101) diffraction peaks of graphitic carbon, respectively.[\[47,48\]](#page-10-0) Additional relatively weak diffraction peaks at 26.4°, 37.6°, 42.9°, and 45.0° can be assigned to the (020), (121), (211), and (031) planes of the Fe3C phase, respectively (JCPDS No.: PDF#35- 0722). The absence of iron and iron oxide further suggests the existence of Fe single atoms and Fe3C clusters. XRD patterns of NC and FeSA were also conducted (Figures S4 and S5). The Raman spectra in Figure S6 display two significant peaks at ∼1347 cm−<sup>1</sup> (D band) and ∼1585 cm−<sup>1</sup> (G band) of the graphitic carbon.[\[49–51\]](#page-10-0) The *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> ratio indicates the level of disorder or the presence of defects in the carbon matrix, with a higher *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> ratio indicating more defects. The FeSA-Fe3C/NC sample exhibits a higher *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> ratio compared to NC and FeSA, indicating a greater number of defects in

<span id="page-2-0"></span>*Figure 1.* a) Schematic illustration showing the preparation of the FeSA-Fe3C/NC. b) Aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy (AC-TEM) image of FeSA-Fe3C/NC (scale bar: 2 nm). c) HRTEM image of FeSA-Fe3C/NC (scale bar: 5 nm). The enlarged view shows the images of the two selected regions in c) after FFT and inverse FFT transformations. d) HADDF-STEM image and corresponding EDS mapping of FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst (scale bar: 20 nm).

the FeSA-Fe3C/NC, contributing to improved electrocatalytic performance.

Thermogravimetric analysis indicates that significant weight loss occurs primarily between 200 and 330 °C, which can be attributed to the release of volatile components (Figure S7) from the alkali lignin, iron nitrate, and melamine. The pore structure properties of the catalysts were characterized using nitrogen adsorption–desorption experiments. Both FeSA-Fe3C/NC and NC catalysts exhibit a distinct adsorption hysteresis loop observed in the relative pressure range

<span id="page-3-0"></span>*Figure 2.* a) XRD pattern of the FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst. b) High-resolution N 1s XPS data of FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst. c) High-resolution N 1s XPS spectrum of NC catalyst. d) High-resolution Fe 2p XPS data of FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst. e,f) Fe K-edge XANES spectra and Fourier transformation of the EXAFS spectra of FeSA-Fe3C/NC and reference samples (FePc, Fe2O3, and Fe foil). g) Fe K-edge EXAFS fitting curve of FeSA-Fe3C/NC at *R*-space. h) Wavelet transform (WT) EXAFS plots for FeSA-Fe3C/NC, Fe foil, Fe2O3, and FePc, respectively.

between 0.45 and 1.0 (P/P0), indicating Type IV isotherm (Figure S8). The specific surface areas of FeSA-Fe3C/NC and NC are 443 and 383 m2 g−1, respectively. The higher specific surface area value of FeSA-Fe3C/NC results from the interaction between iron salts, lignin, and melamine during pyrolysis, which influences the carbonization process. Both samples display mesoporous characteristics, with a primary pore size distribution around 4 nm (Figure S9). The surface chemical states of synthesized catalysts were examined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The survey spectrum of FeSA-Fe3C/NC confirms the presence of C, O, N, and Fe (Figure S10). To further analyze the chemical states, the highresolution C 1s spectrum was deconvoluted (Figure S11). Additionally, the elemental compositions of FeSA and FeSA- Fe3C/NC were semiquantitatively analyzed using XPS, with detailed results provided in Tables S1 and S2. The Fe contents in FeSA-Fe3C/NC was measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (Table S3). The N 1s spectrum of FeSA-Fe3C@NC (Figure 2b) reveals five significant peaks after peak-fitting, which correspond to pyridinic-N (398.0 eV), Fe–N (398.8 eV), pyrrolic–N (399.5 eV), graphitic-N (401.1 eV),[\[52\]](#page-10-0) and oxidized-N (403.9 eV).[\[53\]](#page-10-0) The peak observed at 398.8 eV, ascribed to the Fe─N bond, further corroborates the existence of atomically distributed Fe–N sites. In contrast, the N 1s XPS spectrum of NC shows a similar nitrogen coordination environment but notably lacks Fe─N bonds (Figure 2c). Additionally, the Fe 2p spectrum of FeSA-Fe3C@NC can be deconvoluted into two doublets

corresponding to Fe<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> (Figure 2d). The doublets at 710.4 and 723.4 eV are attributed to Fe<sup>2+</sup>, whereas those at 713.4 and 726.9 eV correspond to Fe<sup>3+</sup>, further confirming the coexistence of Fe– $N_4$  sites and Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters.

The coordination environment of Fe in FeSA-Fe3C/NC were investigated using X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra at Fe K-edge show that the near-edge of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC situates between that of Fe foil and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, indicating a positively charged state of Fe (between Fe<sup>0</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup>) in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC. Additionally, the XANES spectra reveal preedge features similar to those of iron phthalocyanine (FePc), implying the presence of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> moieties in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC (Figure 2e). The absorption edge energy of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC is slightly elevated compared to Fe foil but lower than that of FePc, indicating the coexistence of low-valance state Fe and atomically dispersed Fe $^{\delta+}$ , consistent with the AC-TEM characterization. XANES simulations at the Fe K-edge were performed to probe the local atomic interfacial structure (Figure S12). The simulated spectrum, based on the FeN<sub>4</sub>-Fe<sub>3</sub>C atomic structural model (Fe-N<sub>4</sub> site with the Fe<sub>3</sub>C cluster) depicted in the inset (Figure S12a), shows excellent agreement with the experimental XANES curve. The extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC and reference samples are shown in Figure 2f. A dominant peak around  $\sim 2.2$  Å, showing similar position and intensity to Fe foil, signifies Fe-Fe coordination. These findings, combined with HAADF-STEM, XRD, and XPS analyses, verifies the existence of Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters within FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC. In addition, a peak around  $\sim$ 1.5 Å, resembling that of FePc, indicates Fe-N scattering and supports the presence of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> porphyrin-like structures within FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC. Quantitative structural parameters of Fe in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC were determined through EXAFS analysis (Figures 2g, S13, and S14 and Table S4).<sup>[54]</sup> The coordination number of Fe-N in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC is  $3.9 \pm 0.3$ , suggesting that the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> is the dominant structure. The Fe-Fe coordination number in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC is  $5.7 \pm 0.3$ , lower than that of standard Fe, suggesting the presence of a cluster-like structure. The corresponding Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra at k space are shown in Figure S14. Wavelet transform (WT) analysis of EXANESs was conducted to offer further insights in both R and k spaces (Figure 2h). The contour plot for FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC displays a peak intensity at approximately 7.5  $Å^{-1}$ , which notably differs from that of standard FePc and Fe foil. This observation validates the coexistence of single-atomic Fe-N and Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters. Drawing from these extensive experimental findings, we propose an atomic model in which an Fe atom is coordinated with four N atoms, forming a distorted square-planar Fe-N<sub>4</sub> configuration. The presence of additional Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters modifies the coordination environment and electronic properties of the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites, thereby improving ORR activity.

The electrochemical performance of FeSA-Fe $_3$ C/NC was assessed using the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) technique in a 0.1 M KOH solution. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) tests were first performed in both O $_2$ -saturated and Ar-saturated electrolytes (Figure S15). The CV curves of FeSA-Fe $_3$ C/NC in the O $_2$ -saturated electrolytes show more

positive ORR peaks compared to those of NC, FeSA, and even Pt/C. Subsequently, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was conducted to evaluate the ORR activity and reaction kinetics of the catalysts (Figure 3a). FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC exhibits exceptional ORR performance ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 1.007 \text{ V}$ ,  $E_{1/2} = 0.902 \text{ V}$ ), surpassing that of NC ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 0.905 \text{ V}$ ,  $E_{1/2} = 0.807 \text{ V}$ ), FeSA ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 0.936 \text{ V}$ ,  $E_{1/2} = 0.835 \text{ V}$ ) and commercial Pt/C ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 0.996 \text{ V}, E_{1/2} = 0.853 \text{ V}$ ). Additionally, FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC delivered a limiting current density of ~5.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, significantly higher than that of Pt/C (~4.5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), further indicating its excellent ORR properties. The electrocatalytic performance of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC surpasses most reported Fe-based catalysts for ORR (Table \$5). Furthermore, FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC exhibits the lowest Tafel slope of 82 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3b), significantly smaller than that of NC (178 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), FeSA (139 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), and commercial Pt/C (123 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating its enhanced ORR kinetics. Additionally, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production by FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC remained below 5.2% across a wide potential range (Figure 3d), which is significantly lower than that of Pt/C (6.9%). This remarkably low H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield highlights the exceptional selectivity of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC toward H<sub>2</sub>O during ORR. The electron transfer number (n) for FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC is close to 4.0 in the potential window ranging from 0.2 to 0.8 V versus RHE, indicating a four-electron transfer pathway and superior selectivity for oxygen reduction to OH<sup>-</sup>.

The stability of the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC, NC, FeSA, and commercial Pt/C catalysts was evaluated by chronoamperometric method at a potential of 0.5 V versus RHE (Figure 3e). The FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst exhibited the highest current retention of 98.3% after 43 200 s, outperforming that of NC (97.2%), FeSA (97.3%), and commercial Pt/C (94.6%) catalysts. The ORR polarization curves before and after 1000 cycles under O<sub>2</sub>-saturated alkaline conditions were also shown in Figure S16. Notably, the initial current density of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC is relatively higher than that of NC, FeSA, and Pt/C catalysts, underscoring the excellent stability of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC. Furthermore, FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC exhibits outstanding resistance to methanol, with minimal variation in ORR current following the addition of 3 mL of methanol to the electrolyte. In contrast, the commercial Pt/C catalyst shows significant sensitivity to methanol, resulting in a sharp decline in its ORR current upon exposure (Figure 3f). To acquire a more comprehensive understanding of the intrinsic activity, we assessed the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) by evaluating the double-layer capacitance (Figures S17 and 3g). The FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst exhibits the highest ECSA, attributable to its densely distributed active sites, considerable surface area, and abundant porosity. Remarkably, its oxygen reduction performance significantly surpasses that of most recently reported state-of-the-art catalysts (Figure 3h). The mass activity of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC at 0.80 V (versus RHE) was measured to be 5.6 A mg<sup>-1</sup> (based on the mass loading of Fe), which is 3.2, 1.5, and 1.6 times higher than those of NC, commercial Pt/C, and FeSA, respectively (Figure 3i). To further investigate the role of Fe<sub>3</sub>C, we synthesized Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles/NC using the same method as FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC but without the acid-washing step, as confirmed by XRD and TEM analyses (Figures \$18

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 3. a,b) Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves and corresponding Tafel plots of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC, Pt/C, FeSA, and NC catalysts. c) Comparison of  $E_{\rm onset}$ ,  $E_{\rm I/2}$ , Tafel slope,  $j_{\rm k}$ , and potential of CV peaks. d) Potential-dependent electron-transfer number and peroxide yield. e) I-t chronoamperometric curves of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC, Pt/C, FeSA, and NC catalysts. f) Methanol tolerance test in 0.1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH solution. g) Linear fitting of capacitive current as a function of the scan rate for FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC, Pt/C, FeSA, and NC catalysts. h) Comparison of  $E_{\rm I/2}$  and  $E_{\rm onset}$  of the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst with other reported catalysts in alkaline solution. i) Mass activity of the prepared catalysts evaluated at 0.8 and 0.85 V, respectively.

and S19). ORR results (Figure S20) show that FeSA exhibits comparable performance to FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC, whereas Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles display significantly lower activity. This further supports that FeSA is the primary active site, with Fe<sub>3</sub>C likely playing a secondary role in modulating the electronic structure. The exceptional activity and stability of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC are ascribed to its unique composition and structural benefits: (i) the synergy between Fe single atoms and Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters boosts catalytic activity and facilitates the reaction kinetics; and (ii) the highly porous carbon matrix, with its substantial specific surface area, hierarchically porous structure, and elevated ECSA, provides a conductive framework that enables rapid charge and mass transport during the ORR.

To investigate the adsorption properties of key intermediate species and gain insights into the reaction mechanism,

in situ attenuated total reflectance–surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR–SEIRAS) was conducted. In an  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, two distinct absorption peaks were observed at  $\sim$ 1120 and  $\sim$ 1250 cm $^{-1}$ , corresponding to  $*O_2$ - and  $*OOH,^{[55,56]}$  respectively, at a potential of 0.8 V versus RHE for FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst (Figure 4a,b). As the potential decreased, the intensity of these peaks increased, indicating that  $*O_2$ - and \*OOH are the primary intermediates in the ORR. Additionally, a peak at  $\sim$ 1600 cm $^{-1}$  was attributed to the bending vibration of H–O–H, with its peak intensity increasing as the applied potential decreased, signifying significant hydroxyl adsorption on the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst surface (Figure 4c,d). These findings indicate that the \*OOH intermediate can be efficiently cleaved, thereby facilitating the formation and

<span id="page-6-0"></span>*Figure 4.* In situ ATR–SEIRAS spectra and corresponding contour images in the range of a,b) 1000–1300 cm−<sup>1</sup> and c,d) 1540–1650 cm−<sup>1</sup> under various potentials for FeSA-Fe3C/NC. e) Proposed ORR process on FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst surface in alkaline solution. Grey, red, white, yellow, and pink balls represent C, O, H, N, and Fe atoms, respectively. f) Calculated free energy diagrams for ORR at *U* = 0 V and *U* = 1.23 V. g) Density of state (DOS) for Fe 3d orbitals with absorbed O2, OOH, and OH on FeSA-Fe3C/NC. h) Projected density of states of Fe d band in FeSA-Fe3C/NC. i) Charge density differences of FeSA-Fe3C/NC, FeSA, and NC from the top and side views. The charge depletion and accumulation were depicted by cyan and yellow, respectively. j) Adsorption energies for O2 on FeSA-Fe3C/NC, FeSA, and NC, respectively.

cleavage of oxygen-containing intermediates, which is favorable for the 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR pathway. For comparison, in situ ATR–SEIRAS measurements on the FeSA catalyst (Figure S21) revealed similar characteristic peaks but with weaker \*O2 <sup>−</sup>and \*OOH signals, suggesting the presence of the identical reaction intermediates. These findings align with the electrochemical test results and further underscore the synergistic role of Fe3C in enhancing the catalytic performance of FeSA sites. To provide a clearer understanding of the tandem effect that Fe single atoms and Fe3C clusters have on enhancing the ORR activity, we performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The atomic models of FeSA-Fe3C/NC, FeSA, and NC were optimized through structural relaxation (Figures S22 and S23). The configurations for the adsorption and conversion of O-containing intermediates on different catalyst surfaces are presented (Figures 4e, S24, and S25). The Gibbs free energy profiles of FeSA-Fe3C/NC, FeSA, and NC (Figure 4f) show a steady decrease in energy along the reaction pathway at *U* = 0 V, indicating that each step involved in the ORR reaction is spontaneous and exothermic. Upon increasing the potential to the equilibrium potential (*U* = 1.23 V), it was noted that the rate-determining step (RDS) for the three modeled catalysts is the hydrogenation of O2 to generate \*OOH. The FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst displays the lowest Gibbs free energy (0.38 eV) compared to NC (0.51 eV) and Fe–N4 (0.48 eV), resulting in a reduced energy barrier and, consequently, enhanced ORR reaction kinetics and activity. The DFT calculations are consistent with the findings from electrochemical experiments, demonstrating that the integration of Fe3C clusters with Fe SACs adjust the adsorption–desorption free energies of oxygen-containing reaction intermediates, thereby lowering the energy barrier for the ORR. The redistribution of the electronic structure of Fe active site significantly influences the adsorption energy of oxygen-containing intermediates, thereby affecting the energy barrier of the ORR. As illustrated in Figures 4g and S26, the Fe 3d orbitals in FeSA-Fe3C/NC exhibit greater overlap with O2 compared to FeSA, indicating enhanced activation of

<span id="page-7-0"></span>*Figure 5.* a) Schematic illustration of the structural configuration of a zinc–air battery (ZAB). b) Schematic representation of the operational principles of a zinc–air battery under charging and discharging conditions. c,d) Open circuit voltages (inset photograph showing a lightened bulb powered by the ZAB assembled using the FeSA-Fe3C/NC catalyst) and discharge polarization curves of FeSA-Fe3C/NC-based and Pt/C-based ZABs. e) Corresponding power density curves. f) Comparison of the maximum power density achieved in this work with values reported in other literature (see details in Table S6) for ZABs. g) Discharge curves at different current densities. h) Long-term stability test of FeSA-Fe3C/NC+IrO2-based and Pt/C+IrO2-based ZABs at 10 mA cm−2. i) Charge–discharge voltage gap of FeSA-Fe3C/NC and Pt/C air electrodes.

O<sub>2</sub> molecules. Conversely, in the case of \*OH intermediate adsorption, the Fe 3d orbitals in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC show reduced overlap with \*OH compared to FeSA, facilitating the desorption of \*OH. This results in a lower reaction energy barrier in the final step of the ORR, which is advantageous for the 4e<sup>-</sup> ORR pathway.<sup>[57]</sup>

The d band center was analyzed to determine the interaction strength between the active sites and the oxygen-containing intermediates. As illustrated in Figures 4h and \$27, the projected density of states (PDOS) for the d band of Fe atoms in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC and FeSA indicates that the Fe 3d states in Fe-N<sub>4</sub> ( $d_{center} = -2.550 \text{ eV}$ ) are shifted to a lower energy level in FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC  $(d_{\text{center}} = -2.637 \text{ eV})$ . According to the d band center theory, a more negative value of the d band center value reveals a higher occupancy of antibonding states ((d- $\sigma$ )\*) and thereby reduces the adsorption strength of OH\* at the active center.<sup>[58,59]</sup> To explore the electronic structure of the Fe sites in various coordination environments, charge-density difference analyses were performed (Figure 4i). Significantly, the electron cloud density around FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC is found to be greater than that of both Fe-N<sub>4</sub> and NC. Electrons from the atomically dispersed Fe-N<sub>4</sub> center transfer to the adjacent Fe<sub>3</sub>C cluster, creating an electron-deficient region in the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> center that can accommodate the lone pair electrons of the O<sub>2</sub> molecule, thereby effectively activating the O=O bond. In addition, FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC demonstrates a more negative adsorption energy for  $O_2$  (-0.69 eV) compared to NC (-0.32 eV) and FeSA (-0.43 eV), enabling stronger adsorption and enhanced activation of O2 on its surface (Figure 4j). The electron distribution of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC demonstrates stronger localization during O2 adsorption compared to FeSA and NC (Figure \$28). Simultaneously, the oxygen atoms in the key intermediates \*OOH and \*OH exhibit greater electron delocalization, effectively reducing the reaction energy barriers for the ORR. These findings highlight the more favorable thermodynamic conditions of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC for facilitating the ORR process. Overall, the DFT calculation results demonstrate that the Fe<sub>3</sub>C cluster can adjust the electronic structure of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> active site, optimizing the adsorption energies of reaction intermediates, reducing the energy barrier, and enhancing catalytic activity toward the ORR.

To demonstrate the potential application of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC in energy storage devices, a ZAB was fabricated, utilizing FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC-loaded carbon cloth as the air cathode alongside a gas diffusion layer (Figure 5a). The operational principle of the rechargeable ZAB is illustrated in Figure 5b. The ZAB with FeSA-Fe3C/NC as the cathode achieved an impressive open-circuit potential of 1.573 V (Figure 5c), surpassing the performance of a Pt/C-based ZAB (1.524 V). Furthermore, the assembled ZAB successfully powered a commercial light-emitting diode (LED), showcasing its potential for practical energy applications (inset in Figure 5c). As shown in Figure 5d, the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs demonstrate a significantly lower polarization potential than the Pt/C+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs, indicating that FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC reduces the charging voltage and enhances the discharging capacity. Moreover, the maximum power density of FeSA-

Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs (151.3 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>), as revealed by discharge polarization (Figure 5e), outperforms the Pt/C+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs (99.6 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). This outstanding power density surpasses that of most recently reported ZABs employing transition metal Fe-based catalysts (Figure 5f and Table S6), underscoring the superior device-level performance and effectiveness of the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst. The galvanostatic discharge profiles at various current densities (1–10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) show that the voltage plateaus during discharge for the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs outperform those observed in the Pt/C+IrO2-based device when tested under identical conditions (Figure 5g). As the current density is gradually reduced from 10 to 1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the discharge recovery is observed to be reversible, indicating good reversibility of the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs. This also reveals that the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC+IrO<sub>2</sub>-ZABs have better rate performance compared to the Pt/C-based ZABs, further demonstrating its outstanding ORR performance. The long-term stability of the rechargeable ZABs was assessed through prolonged chargedischarge measurement. To enhance the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) efficiency during charge process, IrO2 was added in both FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC- and Pt/C-based ZABs. The rechargeable ZAB utilizing FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC with IrO<sub>2</sub> demonstrates a voltage gap of 1.38 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, maintaining this stability for >250 h. However, the Pt/C with IrO2 ZAB exhibits a significantly larger voltage gap of approximately 2.01 V and stabilizes for only 140 h (Figure 5h,i). These findings highlight the exceptional stability of FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC in practical applications of ZABs.

#### Conclusion

In summary, a facile and highly efficient method was developed to synthesize N-doped carbon matrix with atomically distributed Fe single atoms and embedded Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters (FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC), using lignin as the precursor. The FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst demonstrates remarkable activity  $(E_{\text{onset}} = 1.007 \text{ V}, E_{1/2} = 0.902 \text{ V})$ , strong methanol tolerance, and superior stability, outperforming commercial Pt/C catalysts. This outstanding performance can be ascribed to several factors, including its considerable specific surface area, the presence of hierarchically porous structure, and the synergistic effect between the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites and Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters. In situ spectroscopic results demonstrate that the FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC catalyst enhances the adsorption capacity for the OOH\* intermediate and facilitates the O-O bond cleavage, thereby promoting the 4e<sup>-</sup> ORR pathway. DFT calculations reveal that the Fe<sub>3</sub>C clusters regulate the d band center of the atomic Fe sites within FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC, optimizing the energies associated with the adsorption-desorption of reaction intermediates while simultaneously reducing the energy barriers, thus leading to improved kinetics and activity for the ORR. Moreover, FeSA-Fe<sub>3</sub>C/NC-based ZABs exhibit higher power density and superior cycling stability compared to Pt/C catalysts, highlighting their potential for practical applications. This study provides a cost-effective strategy for fabricating metal single-atom-cluster tandem catalysts for high-performance energy storage and conversion applications.

15213757, 2025, 21, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202501266 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-9-0"></span>

### *Forschungsartikel*

### *Acknowledgements*

This work was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22278092 and 52373223), the Young Talent Support Project of Guangzhou Association for Science and Technology (QT2024-004), the Science and Technology Research Project of Guangzhou (2023A03J0034, 2023A04J0077, and 202201000002), the State Key Laboratory of Pulp and Paper Engineering (202313), the State Key Laboratory of Biobased Material and Green Papermaking (GZKF202315), the Guangzhou University Graduate Innovation Ability Training Program (2112205032), and the Sichuan Science and Technology Program (2025NSFTD0003). The authors appreciate Qin Cheng from Analysis and Testing Center, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, for technical support. The authors also thank the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BL11B, SSRF) for help with characterization.

#### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Alkali lignin • Fe single atoms • Fe3C clusters • Oxygen reduction reaction • Zinc–air battery

- [1] M. Tong, L. Wang, H. Fu, *Small Methods* **2021**, *5*, 2100865.
- [2] N. N. Xu, Y. X. Zhang, T. Zhang, Y. Y. Liu, J. L. Qiao, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *57*, 176.
- [3] H. Wang, P. Feng, F. Fu, X. Yu, D. Yang, W. Zhang, L. Niu, X. Qiu, *Carbon Neutral.* **2022**, *1*, 277.
- [4] H. Wang, C. L. Liu, P. X. Feng, P. P. Huang, M. Huang, X. L. Lin, Y. H. Feng, S. Y. Gan, D. X. Han, W. Wang, L. Niu, *Ind. Crops Prod.* **2022**, *189*, 115831.
- [5] M. M. Tong, L. Wang, H. G. Fu, *Small Methods* **2021**, *5*, 2100865.
- [6] T. Wang, J. Y. Wang, X. Wang, J. Yang, J. G. Liu, H. X. Xu, *Sci. China Mat.* **2018**, *61*, 915.
- [7] Z. Wang, C. Zhu, H. Tan, J. Liu, L. L. Xu, Y. Q. Zhang, Y. P. Liu, X. X. Zou, Z. Liu, X. H. Lu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2104735.
- [8] T. Li, Y. Hu, K. Liu, J. Yin, Y. Li, G. Fu, Y. Zhang, Y. Tang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *427*, 131992.
- [9] J. Li, H. B. Xue, N. N. Xu, X. C. Zhang, Y. X. Wang, H. T. Huang, J. L. Qiao, *Mater. Rep. Energy* **2022**, *2*, 100090.
- [10] Y. Niu, S. Gong, X. Liu, C. Xu, M. Xu, S.-G. Sun, Z. Chen, *eScience* **2022**, *2*, 546.
- [11] Y. C. Yang, L. Lai, L. Wei, Y. Chen, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *63*, 667.
- [12] L. Tao, K. Wang, F. Lv, H. Mi, F. Lin, H. Luo, H. Guo, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 6893.
- [13] M. Li, G. Han, F. Tian, L. Tao, L. Fu, L. Li, C. Zhou, L. He, F. Lin, S. Zhang, W. Yang, X. Ke, M. Luo, Y. Yu, B. Xu, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2412004.

- [14] M. Liu, Z. Zhao, X. Duan, Y. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *31*, 1802234.
- [15] M. J. Wu, G. X. Zhang, Y. F. Hu, J. Wang, T. X. Sun, T. Regier, J. L. Qiao, S. H. Sun, *Carbon Energy* **2021**, *3*, 176.
- [16] H. Zhou, S. Hong, H. Zhang, Y. T. Chen, H. H. Xu, X. K. Wang, Z. Jiang, S. L. Chen, Y. Liu, *App. Catal. B Environ.* **2019**, *256*, 117767.
- [17] H. Xu, B. Yan, K. Zhang, J. Wang, S. Li, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, P. Yang, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2017**, *723*, 36.
- [18] H. Xu, D. Wang, P. X. Yang, A. M. Liu, R. P. Li, Y. Li, L. H. Xiao, X. F. Ren, J. Q. Zhang, M. Z. An, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 23187.
- [19] K. L. Hu, X. D. Wang, Y. X. Hu, H. L. Hu, X. R. Lin, K. M. Reddy, M. Luo, H. J. Qiu, X. Lin, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 19165.
- [20] H. H. Yang, X. R. Qian, N. Zhang, X. T. Jia, Z. Y. Wen, X. B. Chen, M. J. Zhou, *Rare Met.* **2023**, *42*, 3766.
- [21] P. Rao, D. X. Wu, T. J. Wang, J. Li, P. L. Deng, Q. Chen, Y. J. Shen, Y. Chen, X. L. Tian, *eScience* **2022**, *2*, 399.
- [22] X. X. Yang, C. Priest, Y. Hou, G. Wu, *Susmat* **2022**, *2*, 569.
- [23] J. Zhang, F. Li, W. Liu, Q. Wang, X. Li, S.-F. Hung, H. Yang, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202412245.
- [24] J. Zhang, H. Yang, B. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2002473.
- [25] J. Huang, Q. Zhang, J. Ding, Y. M. Zhai, *Mater. Rep. Energy* **2022**, *2*, 100141.
- [26] J. Scharf, M. Kübler, V. Gridin, W. D. Z. Wallace, L. M. Ni, S. D. Paul, U. I. Kramm, *Susmat* **2022**, *2*, 630.
- [27] A. J. Medford, A. Vojvodic, J. S. Hummelshoj, J. Voss, F. Abild-Pedersen, F. Studt, T. Bligaard, A. Nilsson, J. K. Norskov, *J. Catal.* **2015**, *328*, 36.
- [28] F. Li, H. B. Shu, X. T. Liu, Z. Y. Shi, P. Liang, X. S. Chen, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2017**, *121*, 14434.
- [29] N. Ramaswamy, U. Tylus, Q. Y. Jia, S. Mukerjee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 15443.
- [30] K. J. Chen, K. Liu, P. D. An, H. J. W. Li, Y. Y. Lin, J. H. Hu, C. K. Jia, J. W. Fu, H. M. Li, H. Liu, Z. Lin, W. Z. Li, J. H. Li, Y. R. Lu, T. S. Chan, N. Zhang, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4173.
- [31] X. Ao, W. Zhang, Z. S. Li, J. G. Li, L. Soule, X. Huang, W. H. Chiang, H. M. Chen, C. D. Wang, M. L. Liu, X. C. Zeng, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 11853.
- [32] A. Han, X. J. Wang, K. Tang, Z. D. Zhang, C. L. Ye, K. J. Kong, H. B. Hu, L. R. Zheng, P. Jiang, C. X. Zhao, Q. Zhang, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19262.
- [33] D. T. Chen, L. H. Zhang, J. Du, H. H. Wang, J. Y. Guo, J. Y. Zhan, F. Li, F. S. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 24022.
- [34] B. W. Wang, J. H. Ma, R. Yang, B. C. Meng, X. B. Yang, Q. Y. Zhang, B. Zhang, S. F. Zhuo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202404819.
- [35] C. C. Dong, Z. Q. Wang, C. Yang, X. M. Hu, P. Wang, X. Q. Gong, L. Lin, X. Y. Li, *App. Catal. B Environ.* **2023**, *338*, 338.
- [36] L.-Y.-Z. Xiong, B.-W. Liu, L. Du, Y.-K. Zhou, X.-L. Lin, H. Wang, *Rare Met.* **2024**, *43*, 3084.
- [37] E. Filippidi, T. R. Cristiani, C. D. Eisenbach, J. H. Waite, J. N. Israelachvili, B. K. Ahn, M. T. Valentine, *Science* **2017**, *358*, 502.
- [38] F. B. Fu, D. J. Yang, W. L. Zhang, H. Wang, X. Q. Qiu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *392*, 123721.
- [39] H. Zhou, H. Xu, Y. Liu, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2019**, *244*, 965–973.
- [40] C. Zhang, X. Shen, Y. Jin, J. Cheng, C. Cai, F. Wang, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 4510.
- [41] P. Feng, H. Wang, P. Huang, L. Zhong, S. Gan, W. Wang, L. Niu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *471*, 144817.
- [42] P.-X. Feng, Q.-L. Chen, D.-J. Yang, H. Wang, *Rare Met.* **2025**, *44*, 889.
- [43] P. Feng, H. Wang, S. Gan, B. Liao, L. Niu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2312085.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>

- [44] Z. M. Wang, X. L. Dong, X. F. Li, Y. W. Feng, S. N. Li, W. Tang, Z. L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 757.
- [45] A. Öztürk, A. Bayrakçeken Yurtcan, *J. Solid State Chem.* **2021**, *296*, 121972.
- [46] W.-J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L.-J. Zhang, J.-Q. Wang, J.-S. Hu, Z. Wei, L.-J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3570.
- [47] X. Cui, L. K. Gao, S. Lei, S. Liang, J. W. Zhang, C. D. Sewell, W. D. Xue, Q. Liu, Z. Q. Lin, Y. K. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*.
- [48] Y. F. Wu, J. W. Ma, Y. H. Huang, *Rare Met.* **2023**, *42*, 146.
- [49] M. Shabani, H. Younesi, M. Pontié, A. Rahimpour, M. Rahimnejad, A. A. Zinatizadeh, *J. Cleaner Prod.* **2020**, *264*, 121446.
- [50] X. X. Wang, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 578.
- [51] C. Cheng, C. Zhi, Z. T. Sun, Y. Q. Ming, T. T. Xiang, Q. C. Zhu, Z. R. Wu, B. Li, Y. Li, C. Jin, Y. Cao, J. Yang, *Rare Met.* **2024**, *43*, 1524.
- [52] Y. Z. Zhou, G. B. Chen, Q. Wang, D. Wang, X. F. Tao, T. R. Zhang, X. L. Feng, K. Müllen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102420.
- [53] J. Bai, Y. Tang, C. Lin, X. Jiang, C. Zhang, H. Qin, Q. Zhou, M. Xiang, Y. Lian, Y. Deng, *J. Colloid Inter. Sci.* **2023**, *648*, 440.

- [54] C. Liu, Y. Wu, K. Sun, J. Fang, A. Huang, Y. Pan, W.-C. Cheong, Z. Zhuang, Z. Zhuang, Q. Yuan, H. L. Xin, C. Zhang, J. Zhang, H. Xiao, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Chem* **2021**, *7*, 1297.
- [55] Y. Zhao, H.-C. Chen, X. Ma, J. Li, Q. Yuan, P. Zhang, M. Wang, J. Li, M. Li, S. Wang, H. Guo, R. Hu, K.-H. Tu, W. Zhu, X. Li, X. Yang, Y. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2308243.
- [56] M. Li, H. Zhu, Q. Yuan, T. Li, M. Wang, P. Zhang, Y. Zhao, D. Qin, W. Guo, B. Liu, X. Yang, Y. Liu, Y. Pan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2210867.
- [57] M. Li, G. Han, F. Tian, L. Tao, L. Fu, L. Li, C. Zhou, L. He, F. Lin, S. Zhang, W. Yang, X. Ke, M. Luo, Y. Yu, B. Xu, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2412004.
- [58] W. Zhai, S. Huang, C. Lu, X. Tang, L. Li, B. Huang, T. Hu, K. Yuan, X. Zhuang, Y. Chen, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2107225.
- [59] Y. Liu, L. Zhang, Q. Xu, S. Zhang, Y. Zhou, G. Hu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *35*, 2413134.
- [60] H. Li, W. Wang, S. Xue, J. He, C. Liu, G. Gao, S. Di, S. Wang, J. Wang, Z. Yu, L. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 9124.

Manuscript received: January 16, 2025 Revised manuscript received: March 06, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: March 07, 2025 Version of record online: March 16, 2025