---
source: Luo 等 - 2025 - Manipulating d‐band Center by Interface‐Induced Dislocation in Pt@PtCu Nanowires Boosting Oxygen Red.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 82.719s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:39:54.826924Z
---

# **Manipulating d-band Center by Interface-Induced Dislocation in Pt@PtCu Nanowires Boosting Oxygen Reduction**

*Juan Luo, Shaohui Zhang, Feng Liu, Hao Cui, Xuanzhi Liu, Hanxiao Liao, Yuke Gu, Meihuan Liu,\* Pengfei Tan,\* and Jun Pan\**

**Engineering the electronic configuration and intermediates adsorption behaviors of Platinum-based catalysts is crucial for improving oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics at the cathode in proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), yet it remains an enormous challenge. Herein, an interface-induced dislocation tactic through Pt/PtCu heterogeneous formation in Pt@PtCu nanowires composites (Pt@PtCu NWs) for efficient ORR is reported. Theoretical studies have proven that dislocation driven by a hybrid interface could alter electron redistribution and downshift the d-band of Pt, thus facilitating the desorption of oxygen-containing species and achieving outstanding ORR performance. Specifically, the as-prepared Pt@PtCu NWs deliver exceptional ORR properties with a half-wave of 0.940 V. Moreover, the mass activity (MA) of Pt@PtCu NWs reaches 1.17 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 0.9 V, which is 4.18 and 10.64 times higher than that of Pt NWs (0.27 A mgPt<sup>−</sup>1) and commercial Pt/C (0.11 A mgPt<sup>−</sup>1). Most importantly, Pt@PtCu NWs also prove remarkable structural stability with only a 14.5% decrease in MA compared to a 58.9% decrease for Pt/C after the durability test. Overall, this strategy of d-band center tuning induced by hybrid-interface-driven dislocation provides a promising avenue for designing high-efficiency electrocatalysts.**

**1. Introduction**

Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) are considered one of the most promising energy storage technologies in the global transition to sustainable energy, due to their minimal environmental impact and high energy densities.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) However, their

J. Luo, S. Zhang, X. Liu, H. Liao, Y. Gu, M. Liu, P. Tan, J. Pan State Key Laboratory of Powder Metallurgy Central South University

Changsha 410083, P. R. China E-mail: [meihliu@csu.edu.cn;](mailto:meihliu@csu.edu.cn)[tpf0203@csu.edu.cn;](mailto:tpf0203@csu.edu.cn) [jun.pan@csu.edu.cn](mailto:jun.pan@csu.edu.cn)

F. Liu Key Yunnan Precious Metals Lab Co., Ltd.

Kunming 650106, P. R. China

H. Cui

Sino-Platinum Metals Catalyst Co., Ltd. Kunming 650106, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202422533>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202422533**

widespread industrial application is limited by the sluggish kinetics of the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Platinum (Pt)-based electrocatalysts, known for their resistance in acidic environments, remain the preferred choice for commercial applications. Despite their effectiveness, they face several key challenges, including scarcity, high cost, and performance degradation resulting from cohesion, breakaway, and dissolution.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, new strategies are needed to enhance both the activity and durability to break through the bottleneck of Pt-based catalysts and accelerate the industrialization of fuel cells.[\[3\]](#page-8-0) Numerous studies have shown that Pt's strong binding to oxygenated intermediates leads to high energy barriers for subsequent desorption, which requires further optimization.[\[4\]](#page-8-0) Additionally, the dband center (Ed, a descriptor of the surface electronic structure relevant to catalytic properties) reflects the general relationship between shifts in Ed and adsorption energy. Enhancing intrinsic catalytic activity

and optimizing interactions with oxygen-containing intermediates can be achieved by tuning the d-band electronic structure of Pt atoms. Recent advancements in defect engineering,[\[5\]](#page-8-0) strain modulation[\[6\]](#page-8-0) and multicomponent alloying[\[7\]](#page-8-0) have provided effective strategies for electron modulation, offering promising approaches for improving Pt-based catalysts.

Crystal structure defects, includin grain boundaries (GBs), lattice dislocations, doping, and vacancies, can significantly influence the local atomic coordination environment, and adjust the distribution of surface electronic states,[\[8\]](#page-8-0) thereby regulating the adsorption behavior of reaction intermediates, facilitating the transformation of intermediates into products and enhancing the reaction kinetics, which plays a key role in the development of high-efficiency electrocatalytic materials.[\[9\]](#page-8-0) Specifically, the interfaces, thin interfacial regions between different grains, are proposed to create strained regions by hindering dislocation slip and may afford a pathway to generate high-energy surfaces for catalysis that are kinetically trapped, which is a valid tactic for dynamically boosting electrochemical reactions in electrocatalytic materials.[\[10\]](#page-8-0) Iwasawa's group[\[11\]](#page-8-0) synthesized polycrystalline Pt-based nanowires rich in GBs. These GBs induce

www.afm-journal.de

1616928, 2025, 22. Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202422533 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

structural micro-strain, activating strained Pt surface atoms and improving catalytic activity. Additionally, the electronic structure of Pb-modulated PtCo is optimized by dislocation-driven compressive strain, and the Pt 5d band is downshifted, which enhances the adsorption of reactants and the desorption of products, thereby improving the ORR performance. [12] Furthermore, the high-energy surface configurations resulting from structural defects are more resistant to surface restructuring during catalysis, thereby improving both efficiency and stability. [13] Hence, designing the catalyst structure to introduce crystal defects provides a promising approach to modifying the electronic properties of electrocatalytic sites, leading to optimal adsorption energy for oxygen-related intermediates.

From the perspective of catalyst structure, the anisotropic 1D Pt-based nanowires (NWs) promote close contact with the carbon support, suppressing structural evolution during the catalytic process.[14] These flexible 1D Pt-based NWs can also form a distinctive 3D network, improving mass and charge transport efficiency, making them an ideal platform for high-activity and high-stability fuel cells.[15] However, due to their tendency to minimize surface energy, single-stranded Pt NWs tend to selfassemble into bundles, reducing surface accessibility and impairing catalytic activity.[16]Consequently, strategies are needed to prevent nanowire bundling and maintain well-dispersed nanowires. Moreover, from the perspective of structure-mediated local catalytic media and exposed facets, nanowires are considered ideal building blocks for surface modification, such as constructing catalytic sites along their longitudinal direction.[17] Decorating well-separated 1D Pt NWs with Pt-based alloy particles is expected to generate numerous active interfaces and induce dislocation defects, contributing to high catalytic activity. [10,11b] Therefore, combining the benefits of interface defects and 1D nanowires may result in a synergistic effect, where "1 + 1 > 2".[18]

Herein, we designed a novel structural configuration in which dispersed single-stranded Pt NWs are decorated with tiny PtCu particles to serve as an efficient catalyst for ORR. Through an ingenious ligand exchange mechanism, bundled Pt NWs are separated into individual single-stranded Pt NWs (S-Pt NWs), exposing more surface atomic active sites. PtCu alloy nanoparticles are then deposited on the S-Pt NWs (Pt@PtCu NWs), which creates abundant active interfaces that induce local lattice distortion and dislocations. This further modulates the electronic properties, optimizing the adsorption of oxygen-containing intermediates during ORR. Leveraging the inherent advantages of 1D nanowires, the highly exposed active sites of the separated metal wires obtained from ligand exchange, and the interfaceinduced dislocation, the Pt@PtCu NWs exhibit predominant catalytic activity and durability for ORR in an acidic medium. Specifically, the Pt@PtCu NWs show the highest mass activity (MA) of 1.17 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  at 0.9 V versus RHE, which is 10.64- and 4.18fold higher than Pt/C and Pt NWs, respectively. Moreover, the Pt@PtCu NWs exhibit enhanced stability, showing only a 14.5% MA attenuation after 30000 voltage cycles, compared to 58.9% for Pt/C and 26.8% for Pt NWs. X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the interface-induced dislocation defects downshift the E<sub>4</sub> of Pt atoms, weakening the adsorption strength of the intermediates and thereby enhancing the catalyst's performance. Our work offers new insights into designing structural defects to improve catalytic activity, providing a promising strategy for advancing high-performance electrocatalysts.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Material Characterizations

Figure 1a illustrates the synthetic strategy for the hybrid Pt@PtCu NWs. Initially, 1D Pt NWs were synthesized by reducing Pt<sup>4+</sup> to Pt<sup>0</sup> through solvothermal reduction, employing DMF as the reaction medium, ethylene glycol as the reducing agent, and KOH to maintain a pH of 12. As indicated in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), the combination of DMF and KOH results in the formation of dimethylamine, which is oriented to attach to the reduced Pt nanostructures, guiding the formation of nanowires. Simultaneously, these Pt NWs self-assemble into bundles to reduce the system's total surface energy.[19] This bundled structure results in suboptimal utilization of Pt atoms within the nanobundles. Hence, the ligand exchange mechanism was applied to obtain well-separated, ultrathin nanowires. Oleylamine, with a longer chain length (≈2 nm), acts as a spacer to replace dimethylamine, which has a shorter chain length (0.3019 nm), increasing the spacing between nanowires and obtaining well-dispersed single-chain nanowires. Finally, PtCu alloy nanoparticles were grown in situ on these dispersed Pt NWs to obtain PtCu-modified Pt NWs that are rich in hybrid interfaces.

The phase evolution from the synthesized Pt NWs to S-Pt NWs and, ultimately, to Pt@PtCu NWs was investigated through X-ray diffraction (XRD). As displayed in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), the XRD diffraction peaks of Pt NWs (39.73°, 46.27°, 67.45°, and 81.30°) correspond to the (111), (200), (220), and (311) facets of the face-centered cubic (FCC) crystal configuration of Pt (PDF#04-0802), respectively. Notably, the XRD peaks of S-Pt NWs are largely consistent with those of Pt NWs, indicating that the ligand exchange did not result in the formation of a new phase. After depositing PtCu nanoparticles on S-Pt NWs, the corresponding diffraction peaks for Pt@PtCu NWs shift to higher  $2\theta$  angles. This offset can be attributed to the introduction of Cu atoms with a smaller atomic radius (0.128 nm) into the Pt lattice (0.139 nm), leading to a contraction of the Pt lattice.<sup>[20]</sup> As shown in the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image (Figure 1b), the Pt NWs have high aspect ratios, with diameters ranging from ≈10 to 30 nm, and are composed of dozens of closely associated ultrathin nanowires. The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image (Figure S3, Supporting Information) reveals that the lattice spacing of Pt NWs is 0.226 nm, which matches the (111) plane of pure Pt (0.2265 nm, PDF#04-0802). Interestingly, after the ligand exchange process, the bunched nanowires transition into well-separated ultrathin nanowires with diameters of ≈3 nm (Figure 1c). The lattice spacing of S-Pt NWs, shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), is also 0.226 nm, which matches that of the original Pt NWs. This phenomenon suggests that the ligand exchange did not induce any phase transformation but merely increased the spacing between the wires. For simplicity, the following discussion will focus on the Pt NWs. The nanostructure of Pt@PtCu NWs (Figure 1d) contains numerous ultrafine nanoparticles evenly distributed along the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic for the synthesis of Pt@PtCu NWs. TEM image of b) Pt NWs, c) S-Pt NWs. d) TEM, e) HRTEM, f) the corresponding SAED pattern, g) element mapping images of Pt@PtCu NWs.

intersecting nanowires, resulting in a significant number of heterogeneous interfaces. Meanwhile, the lattice fringes observed in Figure 1e exhibit distances of 0.226 and 0.195 nm, corresponding to the (111) and (200) planes of Pt (PDF#04–0802), respectively. Additionally, the spacing of 0.219 nm corresponds to the (111) crystal plane of the PtCu alloy (PDF#48–1549), which is mildly smaller than the 0.226 nm spacing typically found in the (111) facet of pure Pt NWs, owing to the reduction in lattice constant caused by the incorporation of Cu. Also, the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure 1f) presents an annular pattern, which can be indexed to the (111), (200), (220), and (311) planes of Pt, consistent with the previous XRD results. The elemental mapping (Figure 1g) demonstrates that discrete PtCu nanoparticles are uniformly distributed across the well-separated Pt NWs.

Phase interfaces, which are structural defects formed to accommodate geometrically misoriented neighboring grains, can induce lattice distortion at and around interfaces.[\[11a\]](#page-8-0) Hence, atomic-resolution TEM was further employed to directly present the surface atomic arrangement at the interfaces of the Pt@PtCu NWs. At a glance, the interfaces exhibit significant structural heterogeneities, including lattice distortions and atomic dislocation

**Figure 2.** a) Atomically-resolved TEM image of Pt@PtCu NWs. b) The IFFT image from the marked area A in (a). c) The enlarged view of the marked area B in (a). d) GPA strain distribution maps of Exy, Exx, and Eyy from the marked area C in (a). The dislocation defects are highlighted by the yellow dashed lines in (c), along which atomic positions are displaced from their ideal locations in the crystal structure.

(**Figure 2**a). The white dashed area (marked A) in Figure 2a highlights the interface formed by the epitaxial growth of PtCu particles on the surface of S-Pt NWs. The corresponding inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) image (Figure 2b) reveals a high density of partial dislocations and stacking faults around the interfaces, which arise from dislocation pile-ups due to the hindrance of dislocation motion at these interfaces.[\[21\]](#page-8-0) Moreover, microstrain induced by dislocations is clearly observable in regions adjacent to the interfaces (Figure 2c, enlarged view of marked area B in Figure 2a), manifesting as the deviation of atoms at and around the interfaces from their ideal lattice positions. To gain a deeper insight into the local atomic displacements and strain distribution, geometric phase analysis (GPA) strain maps (Figure 2d) were generated for the region marked as area C in Figure 2a. [\[22\]](#page-8-0) These GPA strain maps indicate the coexistence of compressive and tensile strains, illustrating compressive-tensile distortion dipoles,[\[23\]](#page-8-0) which may result from the interface serving as a strain core, generating local lattice distortion.[\[24\]](#page-8-0) As expected, the formation of the hybrid Pt/PtCu interface leads to dislocation accumulation, triggering a strain field that causes more deformed/strained surface atoms,[\[11b\]](#page-8-0) which deviate from their ideal lattice positions, thereby tuning the d-state of Pt atoms and the bonding strength for oxygen-containing intermediates, leading to superior ORR catalytic activity.[\[25\]](#page-8-0)

The component and valence states of the catalysts were measured by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). **Figure 3**[a](#page-4-0) compares the high-resolution Pt 4f spectrum of Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs. The Pt species in both samples are predominantly in a metallic state. Notably, the binding energy of Pt 4f7/2 and 4f5/2 in Pt@PtCu NWs exhibit a negative shift of 0.19 eV compared to those in pure Pt NWs, indicating that the introduction of PtCu optimizes the electronic properties of Pt.[\[26\]](#page-8-0) This shift is likely due to the greater electronegativity of Pt compared to Cu, which results in electron transfer to the Pt atoms.[\[27\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, the Pt0/Pt2<sup>+</sup> ratio of Pt@PtCu NWs (4.06) is higher than that of Pt NWs (2.94), suggesting that Pt@PtCu NWs possess more Pt0 species as valid catalytic sites, which confirms the modulation effect of the hybridization of PtCu and Pt on the electronic structure again. A lower binding energy is thought to reflect a downward shift in the Ed, which reduces the binding energy of oxygen intermediates on the catalyst surface, thereby enhancing ORR performance.[\[28\]](#page-8-0) Valence band XPS was also conducted to investigate the d-band structures of Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs. As shown in Figure [3b,](#page-4-0) the Ed of Pt@PtCu NWs (−3.58 eV) shifts downward compared to that of Pt NWs (−3.39 eV), which may result from the dislocation-induced strain field caused by the strong interfacial interaction that regulates the d-band of the Pt atoms.[\[25\]](#page-8-0) The local electronic structure, bonding information, and coordination environment of Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs were further analyzed by XAS. Figure [3c](#page-4-0) presents the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra for the Pt L3-edge. The intensity of the white line for both Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs is slightly higher than that of Pt foil but significantly lower than that of PtO2. Additionally, Figure S5 (Supporting Information) illustrates that the oscillation frequencies of Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs closely resemble those of Pt foil. These results

ADVANCED
FUNCTIONAL
MATERIALS

1616308, 2025, 22. Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wile.co.ondoi/0.1002/atmf202422533 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) Pt 4f XPS spectra, b) valence band XPS spectra of Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs. c) Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES spectra, d) EXAFS spectra of Pt NWs, Pt@PtCu NWs, Pt foil, and PtO<sub>2</sub>. e) WT-EXAFS of Pt NWs. f) WT-EXAFS of Pt@PtCu NWs.

prove that the Pt species in both Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs predominantly exist in the metallic state (Pt<sup>0</sup>). When comparing Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs, the reduced white line intensity of Pt@PtCu NWs indicates that Pt atoms gain electrons, [29] which is consistent with the XPS analysis. Furthermore, the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra (Figure 3d) display that the Pt-Pt bond length in Pt@PtCu NWs (2.477 Å) is slightly shorter than in Pt NWs (2.494 Å). Meanwhile, the fitted Pt-Pt bond length in Pt@PtCu NWs (2.73  $\pm$  0.01 Å) is also slightly shorter than that in Pt NWs (2.76  $\pm$  0.01 Å) (Figures S6, S7, and Table S1, Supporting Information). This reduction in Pt-Pt bond length may result from the dislocation-triggered compressive strain.[30] Such strain could result in a downward shift of the E<sub>d</sub> of Pt, as confirmed by the valence band XPS, impairing the adsorption strength of oxygen intermediates and ultimately enhancing ORR activity.[31] The local coordination environment was further confirmed by wavelet transform (WT) plots (Figure 3e). Compared to Pt NWs, Pt@PtCu NWs present a slight negative shift, indicating that Pt is coordinated with light elements, confirming the presence of Pt-Cu bond. [6a] In conclusion, the XPS and XAS results demonstrate that the strong interfacial interaction between Pt and PtCu modifies the electronic configuration of Pt. Predictably, the higher content of Pt<sup>0</sup> and the compressed Pt-Pt bond lengths weaken the adsorption strength of oxygen-containing intermediates, which are key factors in the superior catalytic performance of Pt@PtCu NWs for  $ORR.^{[7a,32]}$ 

#### 2.2. Electrocatalytic Properties Toward ORR

The ORR activity of the prepared catalysts and commercial Pt/C was evaluated using a three-electrode system in 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub> electrolyte. As displayed in Figure 4a, the H adsorption and desorption characteristics of S-Pt NWs are more pronounced than those of Pt NWs and Pt/C, indicating that the ligand exchange mechanism transforms Pt nanowire bundles into singlestranded nanowires, significantly improving surface accessibility and fully exposing the active surface area. The electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) were calculated to be 74.67, 81.93, 114.07, and 162.08  $m^2\ g_{Pt}^{-1}$  for Pt/C, Pt NWs, S-Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs, respectively. The highest ECSA for Pt@PtCu NWs indicates that the structure, with tiny PtCu alloy nanoparticles growing on well-separated nanowires, maximizes the exposure of catalytic active sites. Additionally, the onset potential for the OH<sub>ad</sub> formation on Pt@PtCu NWs shows a distinct positive shift compared to the other samples, suggesting relatively weaker chemisorption of OH<sub>ad</sub>, which is crucial for enhancing ORR activity.[33] Also, the ORR polarization curves (Figure 4b) exhibit a positive shift in the following sequence: Pt/C < Pt NWs  $\approx$  S-Pt NWs < Pt@PtCu NWs. The half-wave potential (E<sub>1/2</sub>) of Pt@PtCu NWs is 0.940 V, surpassing that of S-Pt NWs (0.898 V), Pt NWs (0.897 V) and Pt/C (0.861 V). For a fairer comparison, the catalytic performance of PtCu nanowires (PtCu NWs) was also tested. It is clear that the activity of PtCu NWs is indeed better than that of Pt NWs, but far inferior to that of Pt@PtCu

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) CV, b) LSV curves, c) corresponding MA Tafel plots, d) MA at 0.9 VRHE & SA of Pt/C, Pt NWs, S-Pt NWs, Pt@PtCu NWs (the error bars are the standard deviations of three replicate calculation). e) Koutecky-Levich plots (the built-in image shows the corresponding LSV curves of Pt@PtCu NWs. f) LSV before and after 30000 ADTs (the built-in image shows the relevant CV) tested of Pt@PtCu NWs.

NWs (Figure S8, Supporting Information). This remarkable improvement can be attributed to the formed heterogeneous interface, which effectively enhances intrinsic catalytic activity. Furthermore, the Tafel slopes (Figure 4c) of Pt/C, Pt NWs, S-Pt NWs and Pt@PtCu NWs are 89, 87, 84 and 60 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, highlighting the excellent activity and significantly improved kinetics for ORR of Pt@PtCu NWs, possibly ascribed to abundance of lattice defects and reduced binding energy of the oxygen-containing intermediates, facilitating faster intermediate removal and charge transfer.[\[34\]](#page-8-0) Moreover, MA was calculated by normalizing the kinetic current to the Pt loading (Table S2, Supporting Information), and further normalized by ECSA to derive the specific activity (SA). As shown in Figure 4d, Pt@PtCu NWs exhibit the highest MA (1.17 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 0.9 V vs RHE), which is 4.18-, 4.33- and 10.64-fold greater than that of S-Pt NWs (0.28 A mgPt−1), Pt NWs (0.27 A mgPt−1) and Pt/C (0.11 A mgPt−1), respectively (Figure 4d). Similarly, the SA of Pt@PtCu NWs (0.72 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.9 V vs RHE) surpasses that of S-Pt NWs (0.25 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), Pt NWs (0.33 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Pt/C (0.15 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). To further explore the kinetic process of the reaction, the electron transfer number (n) for Pt@PtCu NWs during ORR was calculated to be 3.95 using the Koutechy–Levich (K-L) equation, higher than Pt/C (3.85), indicating high catalytic efficiency and a nearly complete four-electron transfer mechanism (Figure 4e and Figure S9, Supporting Information). Moreover, the four-electron ORR pathway was further confirmed by rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) measurements (Figure S10, Supporting Information). These findings provide compelling evidence for the crucial role of interface engineering in enhancing the ORR activity. In addition, a comprehensive comparison of the phase structure and ORR activity of Pt NWs and S-Pt NWs reveals that the properties of S-Pt NWs are similar to those of Pt NWs. Although S-Pt NWs had a

relatively larger ECSA, there were no substantial differences in other performance metrics. To simplify the discussion, we focus on Pt NWs.

Durability is a considerable parameter for assessing the efficiency of catalysts in practical applications. To assess durability, we conducted accelerated durability testing (ADT). As illustrated in Figure 4f, the Pt@PtCu NWs present significantly stable LSV curves, with only a 10 mV decrease in E1/2 and negligible ECSA reduction after 30000 cycles, indicating remarkable stability. The XRD patterns of the Pt@PtCu NWs before and after stability tests (Figure S11, Supporting Information) show almost no change in diffraction peaks, indicating good structural stability. Also, the corresponding TEM images (Figure S12, Supporting Information) confirm that the microstructure of the nanoparticles grown on the nanowires is well-preserved, with uniform distribution of the constituent elements. The improved durability is attributed to the presence of dislocation defects, as these high-energy surface structures, resulting from the defects, are more resistant to surface reconstruction during the ADT test.[\[11b\]](#page-8-0) In contrast, Pt/C exhibited significant activity degradation, with E1/2 negatively shifting by approx 46 mV after ADT. And the CV curves for Pt/C displayed a substantial decline in ECSA (40.0%) after ADT (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The comparison of XRD spectra (Figure S14, Supporting Information) shows that although the peak position remains virtually unchanged, the diffraction peaks become broad and flattened after ADT, indicating a loss of crystallinity. Simultaneously, the TEM images (Figure S15, Supporting Information) display that the original Pt/C consists of 2–4 nm Pt particles diffused on the carbon carrier. Following the stability test, these Pt nanoparticles exhibited increased size and severe aggregation. According to reports, the periodic oxidation and reduction of Pt nanoparticles can be aroused by the accelerated www.advancedsciencenews.com

1616938, 2025, 22 Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/10.1002/atmf.202422533 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons

www.afm-journal.de

potential cycling, which ultimately leads to the growth and agglomeration of Pt nanoparticles and a decrease in activity. <sup>[35]</sup> Pt NWs rendered relatively lower degradation, with a 39 mV negative shift in E<sub>1/2</sub> and a 30.1% reduction in ECSA, reflecting superior structural stability of nanowire structure compared to particulate forms (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Post-mortem XRD and TEM characterization (Figures S17 and S18, Supporting Information) reveal increased diameter and decreased surface reactivity due to Ostwald ripening. Furthermore, the losses in MA and SA for Pt@PtCu NWs (14.5% in MA, 11.1% in SA) were significantly lower than those for Pt NWs (26.8% in MA, 25.3% in SA) and Pt/C (58.9% in MA, 33.3% in SA) (Figures S19–S21, Table S3, S4, Supporting Information). These results further highlight the exceptional performance advantages of Pt@PtCu NWs compared to Pt NWs and Pt/C catalysts.

The improved catalytic performance of Pt@PtCu NWs can be ascribed to the following possible points: (1) Nanowire structure: the 1D configuration of the nanowires offers high specific surface area, and facilitates rapid electron and mass transfer, which enhances catalytic activity. Additionally, the anisotropic nature of the nanowires promotes multipoint contact between Pt and carbon support. This close interaction helps prevent migration, aggregation, and Ostwald ripening typically seen in nanoparticles, thereby enhancing durability and reducing carbon corrosion; (2) Separation of bundled nanowires: The Pt NWs, initially bundled together, are dissociated into individual chains via a ligand exchange process. This separation increases the specific surface area, thereby enhancing the accessibility of active sites and facilitating subsequent modifications to the catalytic sites; (3) Interface-induced dislocation: through hindering dislocation sliding, the interfaces promote the local accumulation or concentration of dislocations, which in turn induce surface lattice strain, shift the E<sub>d</sub>, and modify the binding energies of O2 reduction intermediates, ultimately reducing the overall reaction barrier. More importantly, the high-energy surface structures generated by defects may be more resistant to surface reorganization during catalysis, thus resulting in excellent stability.

To further investigate the impact of PtCu nanoparticle growth on the structure and activity of the catalyst, we synthesized a series of Pt@PtCu NWs-x samples (where x denotes 0.02, 0.04, and 0.06 mmol PtCu precursors concentrations) by varying the amounts of Pt and Cu precursors to control particle growth. The XRD patterns of these specimens are shown in Figure S22 (Supporting Information). The diffraction peaks of Pt@PtCu NWs-1, Pt@PtCu NWs-2, and Pt@PtCu NWs-3 exhibit a progressive positive shift with increasing PtCu precursor concentrations, indicating a reduction in lattice distance due to the introduction of Cu atoms with smaller atomic radius into the Pt lattice. Moreover, a detailed analysis of the XPS spectra for Pt@PtCu NWs-x (Figure S23, S24, Supporting Information) reveals that with increasing PtCu content, the binding energy of the Pt 4f characteristic peaks shift negatively, while the Cu 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks shift slightly toward positive values, hinting the electronic interaction between Cu and Pt atoms. Due to the difference in electronegativity, electrons can be transferred from Cu to Pt, resulting in a downshift of the E<sub>d</sub> relative to the Fermi level, which promotes the ORR. [27] Interestingly, the catalytic activity of Pt@PtCu NWs-2 surpassed that of both Pt@PtCu NWs-1 and Pt@PtCu NWs-3 (Figure \$25, Supporting Information). This phenomenon can be explained by differences in microstructure. As shown in Figure \$26 (Supporting Information), oleylamine, acting as a ligand, underwent drastic ligand exchange under the high temperature and pressure reaction environment in the absence of Cu(acac), and H<sub>2</sub>PtC<sub>16</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, leading to the collapse of the nanowire structure and severe nanoparticle aggregation. As Pt and Cu precursors were introduced into the reaction system, oleylamine acted primarily as a reducing agent, facilitating the formation of PtCu alloy nanoparticles in the presence of CTAB as a capping agent. Therefore, in Pt@PtCu NWs-1, insufficient precursor led to an excess of oleylamine, resulting in inadequate alloy particle growth and compromised nanowire structure (Figure \$27, Supporting Information). Conversely, an excessive precursor in Pt@PtCu NWs-3 caused the excessive accumulation of alloy nanoparticles on the nanowires, obstructing active sites and reducing catalytic efficiency (Figure S28, Supporting Information). In contrast, Pt@PtCu NWs-2 achieved an optimal concentration of Pt and Cu precursors, allowing controlled nanoparticle growth on well-defined nanowires, which maximized the exposure of electroactive sites and enhanced catalytic activity. The ECSA values for these specimens follow the trend: Pt@PtCu NWs-2 > Pt@PtCu NWs-1 > Pt@PtCu NWs-3, supporting the structural and activity-related conclusions (Figure \$29, Supporting Information).

#### 2.3. Theory and Computation

To elucidate the mechanism underlying the exceptional electrocatalytic performance of Pt@PtCu NWs, DFT calculations were performed. A Pt@PtCu model was constructed, comprising PtCu (111) and Pt (111) planes, and compared with a pure Pt model featuring only Pt (111) (Figures \$30 and \$31, Supporting Information). The charge density difference distribution for Pt@PtCu reveals that electrons accumulate primarily at the Pt/PtCu interface (Figure 5a,b). Such electron accumulation endows the catalyst with superior electron transfer ability, accelerating the ORR during practical application.[36] In addition, considering that the interface, a structural defect, creates strained regions in and around it by stabilizing dislocations, the Pt-Pt distance was calculated (Figure 5c). The special structure of Pt@PtCu shortens the Pt-Pt distance in the bulk phase to 2.790 Å and at the interface to 2.787 Å, which is shorter than that of pure Pt (2.805 Å). This result proves that the interface induces a strain field, generating a compressive strain that shortens the Pt-Pt bond length. According to Nørskov's DFT analysis, [37] when subjected to compressive strain, the Pt lattice experiences an increase in d orbital overlap, leading to a narrowing of the d band and a downward shift of the E<sub>d</sub>. In contrast, tensile strain results in a widening of the d band and an upward shift of the E<sub>d</sub>. [38] To further investigate the role of dislocations, a Pt@PtCu model without dislocations was analyzed. The partial density of states (PDOS) data (Figures 5d and S32b, Supporting Information) show significant narrowing of the d-band and a more pronounced downward shift of E<sub>d</sub> (-2.32 eV) in Pt@PtCu compared to Pt@PtCu without dislocations (-2.24 eV) and pure Pt (-2.15 eV), which is in good agreement with the previous reports. More importantly, based on the well-established d-band theory, the downward shift in the E<sub>d</sub> of Pt 5d would weaken the

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Charge density difference distribution of the a) Pt, b) Pt@PtCu. c) Illustration of the Pt–Pt distance and interface space between Pt and PtCu. d) PDOS plots of Ptand Pt@PtCu (inserts are charge density difference and Bader charge analysis of \*OOH on Pt and Pt@PtCu. e) Free energy diagram for ORR at U = 1.23 V. f) Adsorption energies of O2 and H2O molecule on Pt and Pt@PtCu. g) Pt vacancy formation energies of Pt and Pt@PtCu.

adsorption of O species and promote the rapid desorption of H2O, thereby improving ORR performance. The improved ORR activity of Pt@PtCu was further validated through the free-energy diagrams (Figure 5e and Figure S32c, Supporting Information). At the external potential of 1.23 V, the free energy diagram shows that the formation of \*OOH from \*O2 is the rate-determining step for Pt, and the theoretical overpotential is calculated to be 1.06 eV for Pt, 1.02 eV for Pt@PtCu without dislocations, and only 0.99 eV for Pt@PtCu. Additionally, charge transfer between Pt@PtCu and adsorbed \*OOH is reduced: 0.27 e<sup>−</sup> for Pt@PtCu, 0.30 e<sup>−</sup> for Pt@PtCu without dislocations, and 0.31 e<sup>−</sup> for Pt (inset of Figures 5d and S32b, Supporting Information). The above analysis confirms that the interface-induced dislocations can produce surface lattice strain, shorten the Pt-Pt bond length, and lower the Ed, resulting in weakened adsorption of oxygen-related intermediates on Pt@PtCu, thereby reducing the overall barrier of ORR.[\[39\]](#page-8-0) In addition, Figure 5f shows the weakened O2 adsorption and strengthened H2O adsorption on Pt@PtCu compared to pure Pt, which mitigates excessive oxygen adsorption, promotes intermediate conversion, and ultimately enhances catalytic performance. Furthermore, the vacancy formation energy (ΔEv) of Pt atoms calculated by DFT (Figure 5g) provides insight into the system's stability. The high ΔEvPt for Pt@PtCu reflects stronger resistance to Pt leaching, likely due to the high-energy surface structure at the interface, which resists reconstruction during catalysis and contributes to superior stability.[\[13,40\]](#page-8-0) In conclusion, the enhanced catalytic activity of Pt@PtCu primarily results from interface construction, leading to dislocation accumulation and triggering a tuning strain field, which shortens the Pt-Pt bond length and moves the Ed downward, thus weakening the adsorption of O species and facilitating the ORR. Furthermore, the interface-induced high-energy surface structure increases the Pt vacancy formation energy, which is the primary reason for the enhanced stability.

### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, substituting short-chain dimethylamine with longchain oleylamine successfully separated bundled nanowires into single-chain ultrafine nanowires, maximizing the exposure of the active surface area. Further modification with PtCu particles enabled the creation of a hybrid interface, where interface-induced dislocations generated strain fields that displaced surface atoms from ideal lattice positions, altering the electronic structure to enhance catalytic activity. The as-prepared Pt@PtCu NWs deliver the highest MA (1.17 A mgPt<sup>−</sup>1) and SA (0.72 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), which are 10.64 and 4.80 times greater than those of Pt/C, respectively. Crucially, after 30000 cycles of durability tests, the ECSA and MA retention rates of the Pt@PtCu NWs reach 85.5% and 88.9%, respectively, significantly outperforming Pt/C, which may be attributed to the interface acting as a structural defect that resists surface reconstruction during catalysis. XAS and DFT calculations further demonstrate that the interface-induced dislocation defects can cause surface lattice strain, shorten the Pt-Pt bond length, and shift the Ed downward. These changes optimize the catalyst's adsorption properties for intermediates, thereby accelerating the ORR process. This work contributes to the development of advanced electrocatalysts through the atomically directed engineering of active sites.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## <span id="page-8-0"></span>**Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Open Project of Yunnan Precious Metals Laboratory Co., Ltd (YPML-2023050264 and YPML-2023050204), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (12074435 and 12405377), the Science and Technology Planning Project of Yunnan Province (202302AH360001), the Postdoctoral Fellowship Program of CPSF (GZB20240859 and GZB20240858), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2024M763694 and 2023M743941).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

d-band center, dislocation effect, hybrid interface, oxygen reduction reaction, Pt nanowires

> Received: November 19, 2024 Revised: January 5, 2025 Published online: January 21, 2025

- [1] a) M. K. Nature CommunicationsDebe, *Nature* **2012**, *486*, 43; b) M. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Su, Y. Jiang, W. Zhou, C. Yang, S. Bo, J. Pan, Q. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1675.
- [2] S. Zhang, S. Liu, W. Cao, J. Luo, Y. Gu, X. Liu, P. Tan, Z. Wang, J. Pan, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *675*, 1108.
- [3] L. Zhang, K. Doyle-Davis, X. Sun, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 492.
- [4] Q. Sun, X. H. Li, K. X. Wang, T. N. Ye, J. S. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 1838.
- [5] a) Y. Zhang, X. Zheng, X. Guo, J. Zhang, A. Yuan, Y. Du, F. Gao, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2023**, *336*, 122891; b) F. Zhao, L. Zheng, Q. Yuan, X. Yang, Q. Zhang, H. Xu, Y. Guo, S. Yang, Z. Zhou, L. Gu, X. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103383.
- [6] a) H. Su, C. Yang, M. Liu, X. Zhang, W. Zhou, Y. Zhang, K. Zheng, S. Lian, Q. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 95; b) M. Liu, S. Bo, J. Zhang, Q. Liu, J. Pan, H. Su, *Applied Catalysis B: Environment and Energy* **2024**, *354*, 124114; c) X. He, X. Liu, M. Liu, Y. Zhang, H. Liao, P. Tan, J. Pan, *Nano Energy* **2024**, *128*, 109902.
- [7] a) S. Zhang, S. Liu, J. Luo, Y. Gu, X. Liu, F. Liu, P. Tan, J. Pan, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2407869; b) S. Wang, T. Sheng, Q. Yuan, *Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *62*, 11581.
- [8] a) Z. Xiao, C. Xie, Y. Wang, R. Chen, S. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *53*, 208; b) S. Jiao, X. Fu, S. Wang, Y. Zhao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 1722.
- [9] a) X. Li, Q. Hu, H. Wang, M. Chen, X. Hao, Y. Ma, J. Liu, K. Tang, A. Abudula, G. Guan, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2021**, *292*, 120172; b) R. G. Mariano, M. Kang, O. J. Wahab, I. J. McPherson, J. A. Rabinowitz, P. R. Unwin, M. W. Kanan, *Nat. Mater.* **2021**, *20*, 1000.
- [10] R. Chattot, O. L.e Bacq, V. Beermann, S. Kühl, J. Herranz, S. Henning, L. Kühn, T. Asset, L. Guétaz, G. Renou, J. Drnec, P. Bordet, A. Pasturel, A. Eychmüller, T. J. Schmidt, P. Strasser, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, *Nat. Mater.* **2018**, *17*, 827.
- [11] a) X. Zhao, S. Takao, Y. Yoshida, T. Kaneko, T. Gunji, K. Higashi, T. Uruga, Y. Iwasawa, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2023**, *324*, 122268; b) R. G.

- Mariano, K. McKelvey, H. S. White, M. W. Kanan, *Science* **2017**, *358*, 1187.
- [12] C. Jin, Q. Wang, J. Liu, *Nano Res.* **2024**, *17*, 2462.
- [13] S. Liu, Z. Hu, Y. Wu, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, B. Cui, C. Liu, S. Hu, N. Zhao, X. Han, A. Cao, Y. Chen, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2006034.
- [14] a) L. Bu, S. Guo, X. Zhang, X. Shen, D. Su, G. Lu, X. Zhu, J. Yao, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 11850; b) H. Frey, A. Beck, X. Huang, J. A. van Bokhoven, M. G. Willinger, *Science* **2022**, *376*, 982.
- [15] L. Bu, J. Liang, F. Ning, J. Huang, B. Huang, M. Sun, C. Zhan, Y. Ma, X. Zhou, Q. Li, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208672.
- [16] D. Samantaray, M. Gayen, A. Roy, P. Bellare, N. Ravishankar, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2021**, *125*, 27458.
- [17] C. Koenigsmann, S. S. Wong, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 1161.
- [18] V. H. Do, J. M. Lee, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2024**, *53*, 2693.
- [19] D. Azulai, E. Cohen, G. Markovich, *Nano Lett.* **2012**, *12*, 5552.
- [20] a) N. Zhang, Y. Feng, X. Zhu, S. Guo, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1603774; b) R. Chen, T. Shu, F. Zhao, Y. Li, X. Yang, J. Li, D. Zhang, L. Y. Gan, K. X. Yao, Q. Yuan, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 9010.
- [21] H. Van Swygenhoven, *Science* **2002**, *296*, 66.
- [22] M. J. Hÿtch, E. Snoeck, R. Kilaas, *Ultramicroscopy* **1998**, *74*, 131.
- [23] W. Jiao, C. Chen, W. You, G. Chen, S. Xue, J. Zhang, J. Liu, Y. Feng, P. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Wen, R. Che, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2020**, *262*, 118298.
- [24] Z. Deng, W. Pang, M. Gong, Z. Jin, X. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *66*, 16.
- [25] a) M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1998**, *81*, 2819; b) M. Gsell, P. Jakob, D. Menzel, *Science* **1998**, *280*, 717.
- [26] J. Li, Z. Xi, Y. T. Pan, J. S. Spendelow, P. N. Duchesne, D. Su, Q. Li, C. Yu, Z. Yin, B. Shen, Y. S. Kim, P. Zhang, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 2926.
- [27] J. Chen, Y. M. Yiu, Z. Wang, D. Covelli, R. Sammynaiken, Y. Z. Finfrock, T. K. Sham, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2020**, *124*, 2313.
- [28] L. Mao, K. Fu, J. Jin, S. Yang, G. Li, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2019**, *44*, 18083.
- [29] Y. Lee, J. H. Ahn, H. Y. Park, J. Jung, Y. Jeon, D. G. Lee, M. H. Kim, E. Lee, C. Kim, Y. Kwon, H. W. Lee, J. H. Jang, J. H. Lee, H. K. Song, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *79*, 105363.
- [30] B. Pang, X. Liu, T. Liu, T. Chen, X. Shen, W. Zhang, S. Wang, T. Liu, D. Liu, T. Ding, Z. Liao, Y. Li, C. Liang, T. Yao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 102.
- [31] J. Liang, Z. Zhao, N. Li, X. Wang, S. Li, X. Liu, T. Wang, G. Lu, D. Wang, B. J. Hwang, Y. Huang, D. Su, Q. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2000179.
- [32] Z. Lin, J. Liu, S. Li, J. Liang, X. Liu, L. Xie, G. Lu, J. Han, Y. Huang, Q. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2211638.
- [33] Q. Wang, Z. L. Zhao, Z. Zhang, T. Feng, R. Zhong, H. Xu, S. T. Pantelides, M. Gu, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1901279.
- [34] H. Yu, T. Zhou, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 12027.
- [35] L. Xing, M. A. Hossain, M. Tian, D. Beauchemin, K. T. Adjemian, G. Jerkiewicz, *Electrocatalysis* **2014**, *5*, 96.
- [36] H. Han, K. M. Kim, H. Choi, G. Ali, K. Y. Chung, Y. R. Hong, J. Choi, J. Kwon, S. W. Lee, J. W. Lee, J. H. Ryu, T. Song, S. Mhin, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 4091.
- [37] V. Stamenkovic, B. S. Mun, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, P. N. Ross, N. M. Markovic, J. Rossmeisl, J. Greeley, J. K. Nørskov, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2006**, *45*, 2897.
- [38] K. Jiang, H. X. Zhang, S. Zou, W. B. Cai, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 20360.
- [39] Z. Li, S. Ji, C. Wang, H. Liu, L. Leng, L. Du, J. Gao, M. Qiao, J. H. Horton, Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300905.
- [40] Z. Yao, Y. Yuan, T. Cheng, L. Gao, T. Sun, Y. Lu, Y. G. Zhou, P. L. Galindo, Z. Yang, L. Xu, H. Yang, H. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 9354.