---
source: Luo 等 - 2022 - Nanofiber-Based Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts with Improved Mass Transfer Kinetics in a Meso-Por.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 66.121s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:37:42.896001Z
---

*Article*

# **Nanofiber-Based Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts with Improved Mass Transfer Kinetics in a Meso-Porous Structure and Enhanced Reaction Kinetics by Confined Fe and Fe3C Particles for Anion-Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells**

**Wenzhe Luo 1,2, Longsheng Cao <sup>1</sup> [,](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2917-6523) Ming Hou 1,\*, Liang He <sup>1</sup> , Yawen Zhou 1,2, Feng Xie <sup>1</sup> and Zhigang Shao 1,\***

- <sup>1</sup> Fuel Cell System and Engineering Laboratory, Key Laboratory of Fuel Cells & Hybrid Power Sources, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, China; luowenzhe1@dicp.ac.cn (W.L.); caolsh@dicp.ac.cn (L.C.); heliang@dicp.ac.cn (L.H.); zhouyawen18@dicp.ac.cn (Y.Z.); xiefeng0794@dicp.ac.cn (F.X.)
- <sup>2</sup> University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, 19A Yuquan Road, Beijing 100049, China
- **\*** Correspondence: houming@dicp.ac.cn (M.H.); zhgshao@dicp.ac.cn (Z.S.)

**Abstract:** The development of high-performance nonprecious metal catalysts for oxygen reduction reactions is critical for the commercialization of fuel cells. In this paper, we report a non-precious catalyst with high-performance, in which Fe and Fe3C is embedded in nitrogen-doped carbon nanofibers (MIL-N-CNFs) by co-electrospinning Fe-MIL and polyacrylonitrile (PAN) and pyrolyzing. The mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN in the precursors and the pyrolysis temperature were optimized to be 1.5 and treated at 800 ◦C, respectively. The optimized catalyst exhibited an onset potential of 0.950 V and a half-wave potential of 0.830 V in alkaline electrolytes, thanks to the improved mass transfer kinetics in a meso-porous structure and enhanced reaction kinetics by confined Fe and Fe3C particles. Additionally, the optimized catalyst showed a better methanol tolerance than the commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C, indicating a potential application in direct methanol fuel cells. Serving as the cathode in CCM, the anion-exchange membrane fuel cell reaches a power density of 192 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> at 428 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and 80 ◦C.

**Keywords:** electrospinning; oxygen reduction reaction; N-doped carbon nanofiber; Fe-MIL; AEMFC

**Citation:** Luo, W.; Cao, L.; Hou, M.; He, L.; Zhou, Y.; Xie, F.; Shao, Z. Nanofiber-Based Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts with Improved Mass Transfer Kinetics in a Meso-Porous Structure and Enhanced Reaction Kinetics by Confined Fe and Fe3C Particles for Anion-Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. *Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029. [https://doi.org/10.3390/](https://doi.org/10.3390/en15114029) [en15114029](https://doi.org/10.3390/en15114029)

Academic Editor: Antonino S. Aricò

Received: 26 April 2022 Accepted: 16 May 2022 Published: 30 May 2022

**Publisher's Note:** MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

**Copyright:** © 2022 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license [\(https://](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) [creativecommons.org/licenses/by/](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) 4.0/).

## **1. Introduction**

The depletion of fossil fuels has prompted the development of clean and highly efficient energy conversion and storage technologies [\[1\]](#page-11-0). Polymer electrolyte fuel cells have attracted wide attention because they feature in high-energy conversion efficiency and zero carbon emissions. However, the kinetics of a cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) are much lower than a hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) in polymer electrolyte fuel cells [\[2\]](#page-11-1) and more efficient catalysts are required [\[3](#page-11-2)[,4\]](#page-11-3). Platinum (Pt)-based nanoparticles supported on carbon have been considered as the most suitable catalysts for the ORR process. However, the scarcity and easily poisoning property of Pt severely limits the widespread implantation of polymer electrolyte fuel cells [\[5\]](#page-11-4). Therefore, it is urgent to develop non-noble metal catalysts with excellent activity, strong durability and low toxicity [\[6](#page-11-5)[–9\]](#page-11-6).

Intensive research efforts have been devoted to constructing non-precious metal ORR catalysts, including transition metal oxides [\[10\]](#page-12-0), transition metal phosphides [\[11\]](#page-12-1), transition metal chalcogenides [\[12](#page-12-2)[,13\]](#page-12-3), transition metal carbides [\[14\]](#page-12-4), nitrogen doped carbon materials [\[15\]](#page-12-5) and carbon materials doped by transitionmetal-and nitrogen Among these, carbon doped by transitionmetal and nitrogen (M-N-C, M=Fe, Co, Mn, etc.) compositions have been considered as the most promising candidates for catalyzing the ORR [\[16\]](#page-12-6). It is recognized that M-N-C catalysts are commonly obtained by pyrolyzing precursors, *Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 2 of 15

including nitrogen and transition metals. Thus, exploring suitable precursors and pyrolysis temperatures is a key factor for developing high performance M-N-C catalysts. The pyrolysis process determines the compositions, the specific surface areas and hierarchical pore structures, which have a profoundly impact on the ORR activity. Thanks to highsurface areas, tunable pore structures and chemical components, metal organic framework (MOFs) [\[17\]](#page-12-7) are promising precursors for preparing efficient ORR catalysts.

For example, zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs) [\[18](#page-12-8)[–20\]](#page-12-9), especially the zinc-based ZIF-8, have been regarded as appealing precursors due to the abundant micropores formed in the N-doped carbon. Due to the absence of active metals in ZIF-8, extra active metals such as Fe and Co must be doped in ZIF-8 to achieve a high ORR activity. Park et al. [\[2\]](#page-11-1) synthesized a Fe-N-C catalyst by pyrolyzing Fe-doped ZIF-8 with ZnCl<sup>2</sup> activation. A high single-cell performance with 1076 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at 0.6 V was achieved in an anion-exchange membrane fuel cell (AEMFC). MILs (Material Lavoisier Laboratory) [\[21](#page-12-10)[–25\]](#page-12-11) represent another sub-class of MOFs, which contain iron metal centers. Yang et al. [\[26\]](#page-12-12) adopted MIL-101(Fe) as a self- sacrificial template and metal source with polyaniline (PANI) in situ-depositions on the surface. After pyrolyzing the hybrids of MIL-101(Fe)@PANI, the Fe3O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticles encapsulated in the carbon nanotubes were fabricated. The half-wave potential of the obtained catalyst was 0.87 V in 0.1M KOH.

Based on recent research progress, it was acknowledged that the metal species would inevitably agglomerate during the high temperature calcination process, which resulted in the loss of active site density. In addition, during the pyrolysis steps, the structure of MOFs even collapsed, which led to an unsatisfied surface area, uncontrolled pore sizes and poor electronic conductivity. In the meantime, it would impose mass transfer limitation and hence impede their practical applications. On the other hand, the one-dimensional nanofiber structures, usually prepared by electrospinning, have the merits of large surface areas, improved electrical conductivity and mechanical stability. By introducing MOFs into nanofibers, the agglomeration of metal nanoparticles can be avoided. For instance, Jaouen and his co-workers [\[27\]](#page-12-13) electrospun ZIF-8(Fe) and PAN and constructed an Ndoped carbon nanofiber network with abundant pores structures. Thanks to the uniform distribution of ZIF-8(Fe) on PAN nanofibers, the catalysts presented a half-wave potential at 0.85 V. In addition, the Fe3C-embeded nitrogen-rich carbon nanofibers pyrolyzed from the MIL-88B-NH2@PAN nanofibers also delivered a half-wave potential of 0.873 V in alkaline media [\[28\]](#page-12-14). Nevertheless, carbon nanofiber catalysts have not been tested in a practical AEMFC. Furthermore, a meso-porous structure improves mass transfer kinetics.

In this paper, a strategy of combining the advantages of MOFs and one-dimensional nanofibers is adopted. A series of Fe and Fe3C particles were encapsulated by nitrogendoped carbon nanofibers (MIL-N-CNFs) for ORR. The Fe-MIL was chosen as the metal centers and carbon source. Fe-MIL andPAN were used to electrospin and for a two-step pyrolysis process. The optimized mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN nanofiber was 1.5 and the optimal pyrolysis temperature was 800 ◦C. The MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst exhibited a largest onset potential of 0.950 V and a half-wave potential of 0.830 V in alkaline electrolyte, which was only 50 mV lower than commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C and comparable to previous reports (Table S1). Importantly, the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst showed a higher stability and better methanol tolerance than commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C. Moreover, using MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst as the cathode in an anion-exchange membrane fuel cell (AEMFC), the highest power density is 192 mW m−<sup>2</sup> in H2/O2.

#### **2. Experimental Procedure**

## *2.1. Materials*

Iron chloride hexahydrate (FeCl3·6H2O, AR) and 1, 4-benzenedicarboxylic acid (H2BDC, AR) were bought from Sigma-Aldrich (Shanghai, China). Potassium hydroxide (KOH, GR) and polyacrylonitrile (PAN, M<sup>w</sup> ~ 150,000 g mol−<sup>1</sup> ) were bought from Macleans Biochemical Tech Co., Ltd., (Shanghai, China). N, N-Dimethylformamide (DMF, AR) was bought from Xilong Scientific Co., Ltd., (Foshan, China). Isopropanol (AR) was bought

Energies 2022, 15, 4029 3 of 15

from Komil Chemical Reagents Co., Ltd., (Tianjin, China). The Nafion solution (5 wt.%) was bought from Dupont (Wilmington, DE, USA). The ultra-pure water (18.2 M $\Omega$  × cm) was obtained from a Millipore Elix water purification system (Burlington, MA, USA).

### 2.2. Synthesis of Fe-MIL Precursors

The Fe-MIL precursors were produced according to a previous report of our research group [23]. A total of 1.084 g of FeCl $_3$ ·6H $_2$ O (4 mmol) and 0.664 g 1,4-benzenedicarboxylic acid (H $_2$ BDC, 4 mmol) was dispersed in 197 mL N,N-Dimethylformamide (DMF, 2.54 mol) in 250 mL flask by ultrasound for 10 min. Then, this solution was heated and remained at 150 °C for 12 h when it was stirring. Then, the solution was naturally cooled, and the products were obtained by centrifuging and drying in vacuum. The final products were Fe-MIL precursors.

#### 2.3. Preparation of MIL-N-CNFs (Fe, N-Doped Carbon Nanofibers of Fe-MIL)

A total of 0.5–1.25 g Fe-MIL powder was dispersed in 5 mL DMF by ultrasound for 30 min at room temperature. Then, 0.5 g PAN was dispersed in Fe-MIL-DMF solution by stirring under below 24 °C for 24 h (the mixture was denoted as x(Fe-MIL)-PAN-DMF electrospinning precursor solution, where x refers to the mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN). The syringe was filled with the electrospinning precursor solution. When electrospinning started, the applied voltage was controlled at 25.0 kV, the flow rate of the injection pump was  $0.5 \text{ mL h}^{-1}$  and the syringe tip was distanced at 13 cm from aluminum foil (a target plate). The prepared electrospinning nanofibers were pre-oxidized by heat treatment in a tube furnace at 250 °C under air atmosphere for 2 h. Then, the nanofibers were carbonized at 700-1000 °C for 2 h under an argon atmosphere (the catalysts carbonized from different temperature were denoted as MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts, where T is the carbonized temperature and x is the mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN). In comparison, MIL-800 derived from Fe-MIL and N-CNFs-800 derived from PAN was synthesized following the same procedures for MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts. MIL-NC-1.5-800 was synthesized by grinding Fe-MIL and PAN powder, then following the same procedures for MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst, which was used as a comparison sample to explain the effect of the nanofibers. The features of all samples were displayed in Table S2. In addition, the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 was soaked in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> at 80 °C for 8 h to leach Fe particles. Then, the sample was dried at 80 °C for 12 h to acquire MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800-Acid.

#### 2.4. Physical Characterization

The morphology of catalysts and precursors were obtained by the field-emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM, JEOL, JSM-6360, JSM-7800F) and transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEM-2100, JEOL, Tokyo, Japan). The prepared catalysts and precursors were identified by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Empyrean-100, Panaco, Almelo, the Netherlands). The graphitization degree of the catalysts was determined by Raman Spectrometer (Raman, Nano Wizard Ultra Speed &in Via, Waltham, MA, USA) with a laser wavelength of 532 nm. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was operated on ESCALAB 250Xi (Thermo Fisher, Waltham, MA, USA). The BET surface area and pore size were acquired by N<sub>2</sub> adsorption–desorption measurement (autosorb iQ<sub>2</sub>, Quanta Chrome). The Fe content of catalysts was obtained by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES, PerkinElmer, NexION 300D, Santa Clara, CA, USA).

### 2.5. Electrochemical Measurements

The electrochemical measurements were operated on Electrochemical Station (Model 730D) by a standard three-electrode configuration. Among these, the working electrode was 5 mm (0.1963 cm²) catalyst-coated rotating disk electrode (RDE), the counter electrode was graphite electrode and the reference electrode was Ag/AgCl (saturated KCl). A total of 5 mg catalyst powders was dispersed in 1 mL isopropyl alcohol and 50  $\mu$ L Nafion (5.0%) by ultrasound to obtain a uniform ink. Next, 16  $\mu$ L of dispersion was pipetted onto the

Energies **2022**, 15, 4029 4 of 15

rotating disk electrode surface. The loading of catalyst was 0.388 mg cm $^{-2}$ . As a contrast, commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C catalyst with 20  $\mu g_{Pt}$  cm $^{-2}$  was prepared. All the potentials in this report are displayed versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE).

Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) tests were implemented in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH and the background currents were displayed in  $N_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH in a potential range between 0 and 1.2 V with an electrode rotation rate of 1600 rpm and a scan speed of  $10 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$ . The oxygen reduction current was corrected with the background current.

The number of transferred electron (n) and the hydrogen peroxide yield ( $^{\circ}H_2O_2$ ) during ORR were obtained on the basis of the following equations:

$$\%H_2O_2 = \frac{200I_r}{N|I_d| + I_r} \tag{1}$$

$$N = 4 - 2 \times \frac{\%H_2O_2}{100} \tag{2}$$

where N is the collection efficiency (0.37), the  $I_r$  is the ring current and  $I_d$  is the disk current. The stability was recorded by chronoamperometric measurement at 0.6 V vs. RHE for 72,000 s. The methanol tolerance performance was evaluated by adding 5 vol% methanol into 0.1 M KOH.

#### 2.6. Fabrication of MEA and AEMFC Test

The membrane–electrode assembly (MEA) was fabricated by catalyst-coated membranes (CCM) and gas diffusion layer (GDL). The CCMs were constructed by a hand spray method. The catalytic ink was made by ultrasonically mixing electrocatalyst, ionomer (N-methylpiperidine-p-tribiphenyl (QAPPT)) and N-propanol, which was covered on a N-methylpiperidine-p-tribiphenyl (QAPPT) anion-exchange membrane with a 4 cm² effective area of the MEA. The anode catalyst was 60% Pt-Ru/C with the Pt-Ru loading of 0.4 mg cm². The cathode catalyst was MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 with a loading capacity of 1.5, 2 and 2.5 mg cm². In addition, the cathode catalyst could also be 20 wt.% Pt/C with a loading number of 0.2 mg cm². Moreover, the AEMFC test was implemented in a single cell at 80 °C with straight parallel flow fields. Furthermore, the anode and cathode were supplied by pure hydrogen and oxygen, humidified at 80 °C (100%), at a gas flow rate of 1000 sccm and 1000 sccm and back-pressure of 0 bar on both sides, respectively. The standard fuel cell test system (850e) was used to display the fuel cell polarization plots in a current density control mode.

#### 3. Result and Discussion

#### 3.1. Morphology Characterizations of the Catalysts

The synthesis procedures of MIL-N-CNF catalysts are described in Figure 1. The fine Fe-MIL was first made by the one-pot hot solvent method [23], which presented a biconical hexagonal prism shape (Figure S1). The XRD pattern was in correspondence with MIL-101(Fe), as shown in Figure S2 [23]. Then, the Fe-MIL@PAN nanofibers (Figure S3) were prepared by electrospinning the homogeneous solution, which contained Fe-MIL crystals and 0.1 g mL<sup>-1</sup> PAN. The mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN was first optimized. The PAN nanofiber presented a fine one-dimensional fibrous structure without defects. However, when the Fe-MIL nanocrystals were introduced to the PAN nanofibers, the Fe-MIL@PAN nanofibers exhibited many nodes in a nanofibrous structure. Additionally, the density of the nodes increased with the increase in Fe-MIL nanocrystals. (Fe-MIL)<sub>1.5</sub>@PAN nanofiber (Figure 2a) exhibits an enlarged node with biconical hexagonal prisms (Figure 2b), which demonstrates that the shape of Fe-MIL was well preserved during the electrospinning process. However, during stirring, Fe-MIL was dissolved in N, N-Dimethylformamide (DMF). Then, polyacrylonitrile (PAN) was adsorbed on the surface of Fe-MIL to prevent the further dissolution of Fe-MIL. So, the size of Fe-MIL changed dramatically before and after electrospinning with PAN.

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 5 of 15

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Illustration for the preparation procedures of the MIL-N-CNFs-x-Ts catalysts.

<span id="page-4-1"></span>**Figure 2.** SEM images of (Fe-MIL)1.5@PAN nanofiber at a low (**a**) and high (**b**) magnification. (**c**) SEM image of MIL-N-CNF-1.5-800. (**d**,**e**) TEM images of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800. (**f**) TEM images and corresponding EDS elemental mapping of MIL-N-CNF-1.5-800.

Energies **2022**, 15, 4029 6 of 15

The effects of Fe-MIL contents and calcination temperatures on the morphology of pyrolyzed catalysts were systemically investigated. Fe-MIL@PAN nanofibers were preoxidized under an air atmosphere and pyrolyzed under an Ar atmosphere at different temperatures. Under the subsequent treatment of at 800 °C, pure PAN nanofibers converted into a conductive carbon fibrous structure, while the Fe-MIL@PAN nanofibers present a typical nanoparticle embedded in a nanofibrous structure (Figures 2c and S4). When the ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN was 1 (denoted as (Fe-MIL)<sub>1</sub>@PAN), the obtained catalyst, denoted as MIL-N-CNFs-1-800, presents a similar morphology with pure carbon nanofibers, where barely Fe nanoparticles could be observed. When increasing the Fe-MIL content in the precursor, MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst presented a markable increment in Fe nanoparticles, with a uniform distribution in the carbon nanofiber. However, when further increasing the Fe-MIL content in the precursors, disconnected carbon nanofibers and a sever agglomeration of Fe nanoparticles appear (the ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN was 2 and 2.5). The above phenomenon is not desired for constructing continuous conductive fibrous catalysts with a high ORR activity. Furthermore, the effects of calcination temperature to the morphology were investigated. At 700 °C, the (Fe-MIL)<sub>2</sub>@PAN was not pyrolyzed completely, as indicated by the several bright spots in Figure S6a [23]. The catalyst treated at 800 °C, 900 °C, and 1000 °C presented a typical fiber structure (Figure S6b-d). Therefore, a ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN less than 1.5 and a calcination temperature of 800 °C or more were selected for the preparation of the uniformly distributed Fe-N-C active sites.

To evacuate the effects of PAN nanofibers on Fe-MIL during the pyrolysis, a pure Fe-MIL and a simple physical mixture of Fe-MIL and PAN with molar ratio of 1.5 were treated under 800 °C. The SEM images of MIL-800 and MIL-NC-1.5-800 were displayed in Figure S5a,b. Without the confinement of PAN nanofibers, Fe nanoparticles agglomerated as bright dots and Fe-MIL nanocrystals turned into a block structure after pyrolysis. It confirmed that the PAN nanofibers were essential to redistribute the Fe-MIL precursors and avoid the severe agglomeration of Fe nanoparticles after pyrolysis.

TEM accompanied with energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) were further undertaken to characterize the detailed structure of MIL-N-CNF catalysts. In Figure 2d, MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 sample showed a single carbon nanofiber with wrapped Fe nanoparticles. Presented in Figure 2e, the outer layer exhibited a crystal lattice spacing of 0.343 nm, which matched well to the graphite (002) plane. Moreover, four dark dots with the interplanar distance of 0.197 nm, 0.221 nm, 0.241 nm and 0.204 nm were in accordance with the (112), (201), (121) planes of Fe<sub>3</sub>C and the (110) planes of Fe [25,28]. In addition, the Fe, N and C element distribution of the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst were detected by EDS (Figure 2f). Those results revealed that Fe<sub>3</sub>C and Fe particles were wrapped in carbon nanofibers and the N element was evenly distributed in the whole nanofibers.

#### 3.2. Structure Characterizations of the Catalysts

The structure and phase composition of the MIL-N-CNF catalysts were investigated using X-ray diffraction (XRD). The crystal structures of the obtained catalysts after pyrolysis at 800 °C are not affected by the mass ratios of Fe-MIL to PAN in the precursors (Figure S7). The peak at 26.2° was attributed to the (002) plane of graphite carbon. Corresponding to the (110), (200) and (211) planes of Fe (JCPDS, No.87-0722), the peaks located at 44.7°, 65.0° and 82.3° indicated the presence of  $\alpha$ -Fe in the MIL-N-CNF catalysts. In addition, the diffraction peaks at 37.6°, 40.6°, 43.7°, 45.0° and 45.9° were assigned to the (210), (201), (102), (031) and (112) planes of Fe<sub>3</sub>C (JCPDS, No.89-2867), which were in good agreement with HRTEM characterization in Figure 2e. In addition, with the same mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN, the effect of pyrolysis temperature was also studied. Figure S7b shows that the prepared catalysts presented similar characteristic peaks of  $\alpha$ -Fe and Fe<sub>3</sub>C. The weakened peak intensity of carbon pyrolyzed at 700 °C demonstrated an incomplete pyrolysis. Meanwhile, when the temperature increased to 1000 °C, the peak 44.7° became intense, indicating the agglomeration of Fe nanoparticles. As a comparison sample, MIL-NC-1.5-800 also presented the same patterns to that of the MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts. The weak diffraction

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 7 of 15

<span id="page-6-0"></span>peaks of the graphite carbon (Figure [3a](#page-6-0)) indicated the similar existing form of α-Fe and Fe3C. In addition, after being treated by sulfuric acid, the diffraction peaks of α-Fe and Fe3C weakened, while that of the graphite carbon was enhanced, which demonstrates the dissolution of Fe and Fe3C. Therefore, 800 ◦C was the optimized pyrolysis temperature, considering the complete pyrolysis and good dispersion of the Fe nanoparticles.

**Figure 3.** (**a**) XRD patterns of the catalysts MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800, MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800-Acid and MIL-NC-1.5-800. (**b**) Content of Pyridinic N, Fe-N, Pyrrolic N, Graphitic N and Oxidized N of MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts. (**c**) N<sup>2</sup> adsorption–desorption isotherm of MIL-N-CNFs-x-800s and MIL-NC-1.5-800 at 77 K and (**d**) the corresponding pore size distribution curve of MIL-N-CNFs-x-800s and MIL-NC-1.5-800.

The graphitized structure and defects of the catalysts were obtained via Raman spectrum. The peaks at 1345 cm−<sup>1</sup> and 1580 cm−<sup>1</sup> in Figure S7c,d corresponded to the D band and G band of the MIL-N-CNFs catalysts. The D band was attributed to the vibration of sp<sup>3</sup> -hybridized carbon atoms, which suggested the regionally disordered structures and structure defects. Moreover, the G band corresponded to the E2g vibration mode of sp<sup>2</sup> carbon atom, which represented the degree of graphitization [\[29\]](#page-12-16). The graphitization degree of all samples was assessed qualitatively by the intensity ratio of G to D bands (IG/ID) [\[30–](#page-12-17)[32\]](#page-12-18). With the increase in the mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN, the decreased graphitization (Figure S8a) was due to the increase in the mass ratio of the Fe-contained

Energies 2022, 15, 4029 8 of 15

components as a structure breaker (Table S3), and contributed to the increased degree of defects as additional active sites. In addition, the graphitization was not severely affected by the pyrolysis temperature (Figure S8b). Therefore, the optimized mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN was 1.5 or more, in terms of graphitization and defects.

The surface element state and the chemical composition of MIL-N-CNF catalysts were investigated by X-Ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS survey spectrum of the MIL-N-CNF catalysts revealed the presence of Fe, N, C and O (Figure S9). The high-resolution N 1s XPS spectra of the MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts were deconvoluted into five peaks, including Pyridinic N (Py-N, 397.84 eV), Fe-N (Fe-N, 399.30 eV), Pyrrolic N (Pyr-N, 400.37 eV), Graphitic N (G-like, 402.15 eV) and Oxidized N (Py-N-O, 405.83 eV). The Fe-N structures were widely accepted as the active sites of transition metal and nitrogen co-doped carbon materials [33–35]. MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst had the highest capacity of Fe-N among the MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts (Figure 3b and Table S3), which could contribute to the highest ORR activity. According to ICP-AES (Table S4), the MIL-N-CNFs-2-800 and MIL-N-CNFs-2.5-800 showed the highest Fe content among all the catalysts, which could contribute to more Fe-active species.

To investigate surface areas and pore size distributions of the as-prepared samples, an Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) analysis was performed. The N<sub>2</sub> adsorption and desorption isotherms of the catalysts treated at 800 °C presented a typical-IV curve with an obvious hysteresis loop, as shown in in Figure 3c, and the corresponding pore size distributions are presented in Figure 3d. The surface areas, pore volume and pore size distributions of the prepared samples are listed in Table 1. The surface area of N-CNF derived from the PAN nanofiber reached only 140 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> with an average pore size of 1.6 nm. For the MIL-800, the surface area and average pore size were  $256 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1}$  and 3.9 nm, respectively. Moreover, an increase in the surface area occurred to the physical mixing the Fe-MIL and PAN, since the BET surface area was 291 m $^2$  g $^{-1}$ . It is noteworthy that, once the Fe-MIL was electrospinned with the PAN-formed nanofibers, the surface area of the catalysts increased simultaneously after pyrolysis at 800 °C. Among those samples, the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst exhibited the highest surface area (402 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>). Introducing Fe-MIL to carbon nanofiber, the average pore sizes of prepared samples were close to that of MIL-800, which indicated Fe-MIL had a significant role in the procedures. These facts signify that nanofibers could improve porosity and constructed mesopore structure. A high specific surface area could improve the mass transportation and the building of the three-phase interface. The mesoporous could enhance the accessibility of active sites.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Table 1.** Surface areas, pore volume distribution and pore size of MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts, N-CNFs, MIL-800 and MIL-NC-1.5-800.

| Sample             | BET Surface Area<br>(m²/g) | Micropore Volumes (cm <sup>3</sup> /g) | Total Pore Volume<br>(cm <sup>3</sup> /g) | Pore Size (nm) |
|--------------------|----------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------|
| MIL-N-CNFs-1-800   | 336                        | 0.086                                  | 0.38                                      | 3.7            |
| MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 | 402                        | 0.091                                  | 0.55                                      | 3.9            |
| MIL-N-CNFs-2-800   | 285                        | 0.073                                  | 0.43                                      | 3.7            |
| MIL-N-CNFs-2.5-800 | 330                        | 0.109                                  | 0.35                                      | 3.9            |
| MIL-N-CNFs-2-700   | 228                        | 0.058                                  | 0.44                                      | 3.9            |
| MIL-N-CNFs-2-900   | 301                        | 0.09                                   | 0.33                                      | 3.7            |
| MIL-N-CNFs-2-1000  | 268                        | 0.078                                  | 0.34                                      | 3.7            |
| N-CNFs             | 140                        | 0.033                                  | 0.15                                      | 1.6            |
| MIL-800            | 256                        | 0.062                                  | 0.56                                      | 3.9            |
| MIL-NC-1.5-800     | 291                        | 0.088                                  | 0.29                                      | 3.7            |

#### 3.3. Electrochemical Performance and Stability of the Catalysts

To evaluate the activities of the prepared catalysts, the ORR polarization curves were recorded on a rotating-disk electrode (RDE). Firstly, the polarization curves of the different mass ratios of the Fe-MIL to PAN samples under 800 °C pyrolysis are shown in Figure 4a.

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 9 of 15

Among all the non-precious catalysts, the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 displayed the highest onset potential (0.950 V) and the highest half-wave potential was 0.830 V (Table S5), which were attributed to the abundant Fe-N sites, the maximum surface area and the largest total pore volume. As comparison, the lack of Fe-based active sites in MIL-N-CNFs-1-800 and the agglomeration of Fe nanoparticles in MIL-N-CNFs-2.5-800 resulted in a decreased activity. Then, the pyrolysis temperature effect on the ORR performance was assessed and is shown in Figure S10. The optimized pyrolysis temperature of 800 ◦C displayed the best performance with an onset potential of 0.945 V and a half-wave potential of 0.820 V, which were attributed to the highest degree of defects, the highest content of iron and the richest active sites of nitrogen-doped Fe and Fe3C. Finally, the effect of introducing Fe-MIL to the PAN nanofiber on the ORR activity was investigated. In Figure [4b](#page-9-0), N-CNFs-800, MIL-800 and MIL-NC-1.5-800 show a half-wave potential of 0.604 V, 0.573 V and 0.610 V, respectively, which indicates that the ORR activity was limited by merely physically mixing Fe-MIL and PAN. In addition, the half-wave potential of the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800-Acid was 0.750 V, which illustrates that the dissolution of Fe and Fe3C decreased the active sites, and the active sites of the MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts were Fe3C and Fe particles wrapped in carbon nanofibers. Benefitting from the porous nanofibrous structure and the enhanced accessibility to active sites, the as-prepared MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst is comparable to what appears in other published results (Table S1).

Figure [4c](#page-9-0) exhibits the RRDE polarization curves of the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst and 20 wt.% Pt/C. MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 obtained a hydrogen peroxide yield (%H2O2) value of as low as 6%, which corresponds to an electron transfer number n of about 3.95 (Figure [4d](#page-9-0)). In addition, 20 wt.% Pt/C also enabled a dominant 4e<sup>−</sup> process. In chronoamperometric tests, the current density of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 retained 86.22% after 20 h at a constant voltage of 0.6 V, which was higher than 20 wt.% Pt/C with a retention of 69.39% (Figure [4e](#page-9-0)). These results reveal that MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 is more stable than 20 wt.% Pt/C, which might be attributed to the confinement effect of the carbon nanofibers on preventing the Fe and Fe3C particles from agglomerating during the long-term durability test [\[28\]](#page-12-14). In contrast, the Pt nanoparticles suffered from dissolution, agglomeration and Ostwald repining [\[36\]](#page-13-1). Furthermore, to investigate the potential application in direct methanol fuel cells, the methanol tolerance of the catalysts was evaluated by adding 5 vol.% methanol into 0.1 M KOH solution during a chronoamperometric measurement. From Figure [4f](#page-9-0), the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 exhibited a much higher methanol tolerance than the commercial Pt/C in alkaline conditions. A noticeable growth of the current density for Pt/C was perceived after the addition of 5 vol.% methanol into the electrolyte, while that of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 was only faintly disturbed. The result lays the foundation to apply MIL-N-CNFs in direct methanol fuel cells.

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 10 of 15

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 4.** ORR polarization curves in 0.1 M KOH (rotating speed: 1600 rpms, scan rate: 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> ) of the (**a**) MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts and (**b**) MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800, MIL-800, MIL-NC-1.5-800, N-CNFs-800, MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800-Acid and 20 wt.% Pt/C catalysts. (**c**) RRDE polarization curves in 0.1 M KOH (scan speed: 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , rotating speed: 1600 rpm) of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 and 20 wt.% Pt/C. (**d**) Corresponding %H2O<sup>2</sup> and transferred electron number of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 and 20 wt.% Pt/C during the ORR process. (**e**) Chronoamperometric responses of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 and 20 wt.% Pt/C at 0.6 V vs. RHE in O<sup>2</sup> -saturated 0.1 M KOH. (**f**) Chronoamperometric responses of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 and 20 wt.% Pt/C after adding 5 vol % methanol at 200 s in O<sup>2</sup> -saturated 0.1 M KOH.

Energies 2022, 15, 4029 11 of 15

## 3.4. Alkaline Anion-Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell (AEMFC) Performance

The optimized MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst was further evaluated in anion-exchange membrane fuel cells (AEMFCs) with different catalyst loadings (Figure 5). When 2.0 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 served as the cathode catalyst, the AEMFC displayed the highest power density of 192 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at 428 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 80 °C. The maximum power density of the AEMFC was only 157 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, when 1.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 was used as the cathode catalyst, whose insufficient active sites contributed to an inferior performance. Increasing the loading to 2.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>, the fuel cell peak power density was moderate (167 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) due to mass transport loss in a thicker catalyst layer. The performance of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 was comparable to the other non-precious metal catalysts in previously published articles (Table S6).

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 5.** The polarization curves and power density in  $H_2/O_2$  anion-exchange membrane fuel cells. MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 was used as cathode catalyst and 60% Pt-Ru/C as anode catalyst. MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 loadings: 1.5, 2 and 2.5 mg cm $^{-2}$ . The 60 wt.% Pt-Ru/C loading: 0.4 mg cm $^{-2}$ . T = 80 °C, cathode RH = 100%, anode RH = 100%, back pressure = 0 bar.

#### 4. Conclusions

Hierarchical porous MIL-N-CNF electrocatalysts were successfully synthesized by electrospinning bicorne hexagonal prism Fe-MIL with PAN, followed by pyrolysis. 1D PAN nanofibers confined the Fe and Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles from agglomerating during pyrolysis. The optimized mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN nanofibers was 1.5 and the optimal pyrolysis temperature was 800 °C. The MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 exhibited the best ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.830 V, which was only 50 mV lower than that of the 20 wt.% Pt/C in the alkaline condition. Benefiting from the N-doped carbon nanofibers that could prevent the Fe and Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles from dissolving, the MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 catalyst presented improved stability than Pt/C. The enhanced performance of MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 derived from the following reasons: (1) 1D PAN nanofibers confined the Fe and Fe<sub>3</sub>C particles from agglomerating during pyrolysis. (2) The high specific surface area and mesopore structure facilitated the accessibility of reactants to active sites. (3) The N-doped carbon nanofibers encapsulated Fe and Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles and provided a superior durability. Moreover, adopting MIL-N-CNFs-1.5-800 as a cathode catalyst, the AEMFC delivered a peak power density of 192 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>. This work also provides a novel method to prepare non-precious metal catalysts with a nanofiber structure for fuel cells.

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 12 of 15

**Supplementary Materials:** The following supporting information can be downloaded at: [https:](https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/en15114029/s1) [//www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/en15114029/s1,](https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/en15114029/s1) Figure S1: SEM images of Fe-MIL at low (a) and high (b) magnification; Figure S2: XRD patterns of the Fe-MIL; Figure S3: SEM images of (a) PAN (b) (Fe-MIL)1@PAN (c) (Fe-MIL)2@PAN and (d) (Fe-MIL)2.5@PAN; Figure S4: SEM images of (a) N-CNFs-800 (b) MIL-N-CNFs-1-800 (c) MIL-N-CNFs-2-800 and (d)MIL-N-CNFs-2.5-800; Figure S5: SEM images of (a) MIL-800 and (b) MIL-NC-1.5-800; Figure S6: SEM images of (a) MIL-N-CNFs-2- 700 (b) MIL-N-CNFs-2-800 (c) MIL-N-CNFs-2-900 and (c) MIL-N-CNFs-2-1000; Figure S7: (a) XRD patterns of the catalysts MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts (x referred to the mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN). (b) XRD patterns of the catalysts MIL-N-CNFs-2-T catalysts pyrolyzed under different temperatures; Figure S8: (a) Raman spectra of MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts. (b) Raman spectra of MIL-N-CNFs-2-T catalysts; Figure S9: XPS survey spectrum of (a)MIL-N-CNFs-x-800 catalysts(x referred to the mass ratio of Fe-MIL to PAN) (b) MIL-N-CNFs-2-T catalysts pyrolyzed under different temperatures; Figure S10: LSV curves at 10 mV/s and a rotating speed of 1600 rpm in 0.1M KOH of MIL-N-CNFs-2-T catalysts; Table S1: Comparison of the ORR performance of the recently published non-noble metal catalysts (0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm); Table S2: Features of all samples; Table S3: The nitrogen contents and states of MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts; Table S4: Fe content of MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts; Table S5: Onset potential and half-wave potential of MIL-N-CNFs-x-T catalysts, N-CNFs, MIL-800, MIL-NC-1.5-800 and 20% Pt/C; Table S6: Comparison of AEMFC performances using different NPMC cathode catalysts. References [\[37–](#page-13-2)[62\]](#page-14-0) are cited in the Supplementary Materials.

**Author Contributions:** Conceptualization, W.L.; methodology, W.L.; software, W.L.; validation, W.L. and L.H.; formal analysis, W.L. and L.C.; investigation, W.L.; resources, W.L. and Y.Z.; data curation, W.L.; writing—original draft preparation, W.L., F.X. and M.H.; writing—review and editing, W.L., M.H. and L.C.; visualization, W.L.; supervision, Z.S. and M.H.; project administration, Z.S., M.H. and L.C.; funding acquisition, Z.S., M.H. and L.C. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

**Funding:** This research was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China: 2019YFA0210304; National Natural Science Foundation of China: 21905272.

**Institutional Review Board Statement:** Not applicable.

**Informed Consent Statement:** Not applicable.

**Data Availability Statement:** Not applicable.

**Conflicts of Interest:** The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **References**

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>1. Yang, S.; Bachman, R.E.; Feng, X.; Muellen, K. Use of Organic Precursors and Graphenes in the Controlled Synthesis of Carbon-Containing Nanomaterials for Energy Storage and Conversion. *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 116–128. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/ar3001475) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23110511)
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>2. Park, S.; Her, M.; Shin, H.; Hwang, W.; Sung, Y.E. Maximizing the Active Site Densities of Single-Atomic Fe-N-C Electrocatalysts for High-Performance Anion Membrane Fuel Cells. *ACS Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 1459–1466. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.0c02650)
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>3. Xia, W.; Mahmood, A.; Liang, Z.B.; Zou, R.Q.; Guo, S.J. Earth-Abundant Nanomaterials for Oxygen Reduction. *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2016**, *55*, 2650–2676. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201504830) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26663778)
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>4. Stephens, I.E.L.; Bondarenko, A.S.; Gronbjerg, U.; Rossmeisl, J.; Chorkendorff, I. Understanding the electrocatalysis of oxygen reduction on platinum and its alloys. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 6744–6762. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee03590a)
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>5. Li, M.G.; Zhao, Z.L.; Zhang, W.Y.; Luo, M.C.; Tao, L.; Sun, Y.J.; Xia, Z.H.; Chao, Y.G.; Yin, K.; Zhang, Q.H.; et al. Sub-Monolayer YOx/MoOx on Ultrathin Pt Nanowires Boosts Alcohol Oxidation Electrocatalysis. *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 6.
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>6. Wang, J.; Huang, Z.Q.; Liu, W.; Chang, C.R.; Tang, H.L.; Li, Z.J.; Chen, W.X.; Jia, C.J.; Yao, T.; Wei, S.Q.; et al. Design of N-Coordinated Dual-Metal Sites: A Stable and Active Pt-Free Catalyst for Acidic Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17281–17284. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10385)
- 7. Xia, W.; Zou, R.Q.; An, L.; Xia, D.G.; Guo, S.J. A metal-organic framework route to in situ encapsulation of Co@Co3O4@C core@bishell nanoparticles into a highly ordered porous carbon matrix for oxygen reduction. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 568–576. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE02281E)
- 8. Im, K.; Jang, J.H.; Heo, J.; Kim, D.; Lee, K.S.; Lim, H.K.; Kim, J.; Yoo, S.J. Design of Co-NC as efficient electrocatalyst: The unique structure and active site for remarkable durability of proton exchange membrane fuel cells. *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2022**, *308*, 121220. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121220)
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>9. Wang, Y.N.; Wan, X.; Liu, J.Y.; Li, W.W.; Li, Y.C.; Guo, X.; Liu, X.F.; Shang, J.X.; Shui, J.L. Catalysis stability enhancement of Fe/Co dual-atom site via phosphorus coordination for proton exchange membrane fuel cell. *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 3082–3089. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3966-y)

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 13 of 15

<span id="page-12-0"></span>10. Mathumba, P.; Fernandes, D.M.; Matos, R.; Iwuoha, E.I.; Freire, C. Metal Oxide (Co3O<sup>4</sup> and Mn3O<sup>4</sup> ) Impregnation into S, N-doped Graphene for Oxygen Reduction Reaction (ORR). *Materials* **2020**, *13*, 1562. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.3390/ma13071562)

- <span id="page-12-1"></span>11. Parra-Puerto, A.; Ng, K.L.; Fahy, K.; Goode, A.E.; Ryan, M.P.; Kucernak, A. Supported Transition Metal Phosphides: Activity Survey for HER, ORR, OER, and Corrosion Resistance in Acid and Alkaline Electrolytes. *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 11515–11529. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b03359)
- <span id="page-12-2"></span>12. Xiao, Y.; Tang, L. High-Throughput Approach Exploitation: Two-Dimensional Double-Metal Sulfide (M2S<sup>2</sup> ) of Efficient Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Fuel Cells. *Energy Fuels* **2020**, *34*, 5006–5015. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.0c00297)
- <span id="page-12-3"></span>13. Tao, H.; Liu, S.; Luo, J.-L.; Choi, P.; Liu, Q.; Xu, Z. Descriptor of catalytic activity of metal sulfides for oxygen reduction reaction: A potential indicator for mineral flotation. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 9650–9656. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA01241E)
- <span id="page-12-4"></span>14. Chen, M.H.; Liu, J.L.; Zhou, W.J.; Lin, J.Y.; Shen, Z.X. Nitrogen-doped Graphene-Supported Transition-metals Carbide Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Sci. Rep.* **2015**, *5*, 10389. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/srep10389)
- <span id="page-12-5"></span>15. Quilez-Bermejo, J.; Melle-Franco, M.; San-Fabian, E.; Morallon, E.; Cazorla-Amoros, D. Towards understanding the active sites for the ORR in N-doped carbon materials through fine-tuning of nitrogen functionalities: An experimental and computational approach. *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2019**, *7*, 24239–24250. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA07932G)
- <span id="page-12-6"></span>16. Chen, G.B.; Zhong, H.X.; Feng, X.L. Active site engineering of single-atom carbonaceous electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction. *Chem. Sci.* **2021**, *12*, 15802–15820. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/D1SC05867C)
- <span id="page-12-7"></span>17. Li, L.J.; He, J.X.; Wang, Y.; Lv, X.X.; Gu, X.; Dai, P.C.; Liu, D.D.; Zhao, X.B. Metal-organic frameworks: A promising platform for constructing non-noble electrocatalysts for the oxygen-reduction reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 1964–1988. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA11704G)
- <span id="page-12-8"></span>18. Zhong, L.; Huang, Q.; Ding, J.Y.; Guo, Y.Y.; Wang, X.; Chai, L.L.; Li, T.T.; Hu, Y.; Qian, J.J.; Huang, S.M. Abundant Co-N-x sites onto hollow MOF-Derived nitrogen-doped carbon materials for enhanced oxygen reduction. *J. Power Sources* **2021**, *492*, 229632. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.229632)
- 19. Song, S.Q.; Wu, M.M.; Chen, J.W.; Mo, Z.H.; Chen, R.; Wang, K.; Yu, T.W. An Fe-N/S-C hybrid electrocatalyst derived from bimetal-organic framework for efficiently electrocatalyzing oxygen reduction reaction in acidic media. *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *52*, 291–300. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.04.066)
- <span id="page-12-9"></span>20. Ge, M.; Wang, Y.Z.; Carraro, F.; Liang, W.B.; Roostaeinia, M.; Siahrostami, S.; Proserpio, D.M.; Doonan, C.; Falcaro, P.; Zheng, H.Q.; et al. High-Throughput Electron Diffraction Reveals a Hidden Novel Metal-Organic Framework for Electrocatalysis. *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2021**, *60*, 11391–11397. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202016882)
- <span id="page-12-10"></span>21. Yang, L.M.; Zeng, Y.C.; Tang, X.J.; Xu, D.Y.; Fang, D.H.; Huang, H.; Shao, Z.G.; Yi, B.L. Self-Sacrificial Template Synthesis of a Nitrogen-Doped Microstructured Carbon Tube as Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction. *Chemelectrochem* **2018**, *5*, 3731–3740. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201801050)
- 22. Su, H.X.; Zhou, S.C.; Zhang, X.; Sun, H.; Zhang, H.S.; Xiao, Y.; Yu, K.M.; Dong, Z.; Dai, X.P.; Huang, X.L. Metal-organic frame works-derived core-shell Fe3O4/Fe3N@graphite carbon nanocomposites as excellent non-precious metal electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction. *Dalton Trans.* **2018**, *47*, 16567–16577. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C8DT02250J) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30417180)
- <span id="page-12-15"></span>23. Yang, L.M.; Bai, Y.Z.; Zhang, H.J.; Geng, J.T.; Shao, Z.G.; Yi, B.L. Nitrogen-doped porous carbon derived from Fe-MIL nanocrystals as an electrocatalyst for efficient oxygen reduction. *RSC Adv.* **2017**, *7*, 22610–22618. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C6RA27834E)
- 24. Gao, S.Y.; Fan, B.F.; Feng, R.; Ye, C.L.; Wei, X.J.; Liu, J.; Bu, X.H. N-doped-carbon-coated Fe3O<sup>4</sup> from metal-organic framework as efficient electrocatalyst for ORR. *Nano Energy* **2017**, *40*, 462–470. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.08.044)
- <span id="page-12-11"></span>25. Li, J.S.; Li, S.L.; Tang, Y.J.; Han, M.; Dai, Z.H.; Bao, J.C.; Lan, Y.Q. Nitrogen-doped Fe/Fe3C@graphitic layer/carbon nanotube hybrids derived from MOFs: Efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts for ORR and OER. *Chem. Commun.* **2015**, *51*, 2710–2713. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC09062D) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25575029)
- <span id="page-12-12"></span>26. Yang, L.J. Self-sacrificial template synthesis of nitrogen-doped microstructured carbontube as high activity electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction. *Chemelectrochem* **2018**, *5*, 1–11. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201801050)
- <span id="page-12-13"></span>27. Li, J.K.; Bruller, S.; Sabarirajan, D.C.; Ranjbar-Sahraie, N.; Sougrati, M.T.; Cavaliere, S.; Jones, D.; Zenyuk, I.V.; Zitolo, A.; Jaouen, F. Designing the 3D Architecture of PGM-Free Cathodes for H-2/Air Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells. *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 7211–7222. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b01181)
- <span id="page-12-14"></span>28. Zhong, R.Q.; Wu, Y.X.; Liang, Z.B.; Guo, W.H.; Zhi, C.X.; Qu, C.; Gao, S.; Zhu, B.J.; Zhang, H.; Zou, R.Q. Fabricating hierarchically porous and (FeC)-C-3-embeded nitrogen-rich carbon nanofibers as exceptional electocatalysts for oxygen reduction. *Carbon* **2019**, *142*, 115–122. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.10.040)
- <span id="page-12-16"></span>29. Wang, S.G.; Cui, Z.T.; Cao, M.H. A Template-Free Method for Preparation of Cobalt Nanoparticles Embedded in N-Doped Carbon Nanofibers with a Hierarchical Pore Structure for Oxygen Reduction. *Chem.-Eur. J.* **2015**, *21*, 2165–2172. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201404884)
- <span id="page-12-17"></span>30. Duan, J.J.; Zheng, Y.; Chen, S.; Tang, Y.H.; Jaroniec, M.; Qiao, S.Z. Mesoporous hybrid material composed of Mn3O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticles on nitrogen-doped graphene for highly efficient oxygen reduction reaction. *Chem. Commun.* **2013**, *49*, 7705–7707. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C3CC43338B)
- 31. Unni, S.M.; Devulapally, S.; Karjule, N.; Kurungot, S. Graphene enriched with pyrrolic coordination of the doped nitrogen as an efficient metal-free electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction. *J. Mater. Chem.* **2012**, *22*, 23506–23513. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/c2jm35547g)
- <span id="page-12-18"></span>32. He, Y.H.; Guo, H.; Hwang, S.; Yang, X.X.; He, Z.Z.; Braaten, J.; Karakalos, S.; Shan, W.T.; Wang, M.Y.; Zhou, H.; et al. Single Cobalt Sites Dispersed in Hierarchically Porous Nanofiber Networks for Durable and High-Power PGM-Free Cathodes in Fuel Cells. *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, e2003577. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202003577)
- <span id="page-12-19"></span>33. Hao, R.; Ren, J.T.; Lv, X.W.; Li, W.; Liu, Y.P.; Yuan, Z.Y. N-doped porous carbon hollow microspheres encapsulated with iron -based nanocomposites as advanced bifunctional catalysts for rechargeable Zn-air battery. *J. Energy Chem.* **2020**, *49*, 14–21. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.01.007)

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 14 of 15

34. Wei, X.Q.; Luo, X.; Wang, H.J.; Gu, W.L.; Cai, W.W.; Lin, Y.H.; Zhu, C.Z. Highly-defective Fe-N-C catalysts towards pH-Universal oxygen reduction reaction. *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2020**, *263*, 118347. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118347)

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>35. Yan, W.; Wu, Y.L.; Chen, Y.L.; Liu, Q.; Wang, K.; Cao, N.; Dai, F.N.; Li, X.Y.; Jiang, J.Z. Facile preparation of N-doped corncobderived carbon nanofiber efficiently encapsulating Fe2O<sup>3</sup> nanocrystals towards high ORR electrocatalytic activity. *J. Energy Chem.* **2020**, *44*, 121–130. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2019.09.002)
- <span id="page-13-1"></span>36. Cao, Z.M.; Xie, M.H.; Cheng, H.Y.; Chen, R.H.; Lyu, Z.; Xie, Z.X.; Xia, Y.N. A New Catalytic System with Balanced Activity and Durability toward Oxygen Reduction. *Chemcatchem* **2020**, *12*, 4817–4824. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202001028)
- <span id="page-13-2"></span>37. Cheng, Q.Q.; Yang, L.J.; Zou, L.L.; Zou, Z.Q.; Chen, C.; Hu, Z.; Yang, H. Single Cobalt Atom and N Codoped Carbon Nanofibers as Highly Durable Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 6864–6871. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b02326)
- 38. Wu, Z.Y.; Xu, X.X.; Hu, B.C.; Liang, H.W.; Lin, Y.; Chen, L.F.; Yu, S.H. Iron Carbide Nanoparticles Encapsulated in Mesoporous Fe-N-Doped Carbon Nanofibers for Efficient Electrocatalysis. *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2015**, *54*, 8179–8183. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201502173)
- 39. Lin, L.; Zhu, Q.; Xu, A.W. Noble-Metal-Free Fe-N/C Catalyst for Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction under Both Alkaline and Acidic Conditions. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 11027–11033. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/ja504696r)
- 40. Guan, B.Y.; Yu, L.; Lou, X.W. A dual-metal-organic-framework derived electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 3092–3096. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE02171A)
- 41. Ren, G.Y.; Lu, X.Y.; Li, Y.N.; Zhu, Y.; Dai, L.M.; Jiang, L. Porous Core-Shell Fe3C Embedded N-doped Carbon Nanofibers as an Effective Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 4118–4125. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b11786) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26808226)
- 42. Ferrero, G.A.; Preuss, K.; Marinovic, A.; Jorge, A.B.; Mansor, N.; Brett, D.J.L.; Fuertes, A.B.; Sevilla, M.; Titirici, M.M. Fe-N-Doped Carbon Capsules with Outstanding Electrochemical Performance and Stability for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Both Acid and Alkaline Conditions. *ACS Nano* **2016**, *10*, 5922–5932. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b01247) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27214056)
- 43. Hu, Y.; Jensen, J.O.; Zhang, W.; Cleemann, L.N.; Xing, W.; Bjerrum, N.J.; Li, Q.F. Hollow Spheres of Iron Carbide Nanoparticles Encased in Graphitic Layers as Oxygen Reduction Catalysts. *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2014**, *53*, 3675–3679. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201400358) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24554421)
- 44. Wang, Y.L.; Gan, R.H.; Liu, H.; Dirican, M.; Wei, C.B.; Ma, C.; Shi, J.L.; Zhang, X.W. Fe3O4/Fe2O3/Fe nanoparticles anchored on N-doped hierarchically porous carbon nanospheres as a high-efficiency ORR electrocatalyst for rechargeable Zn-air batteries. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 2764–2774. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA10205A)
- 45. Liu, B.; Yao, H.Q.; Daniels, R.A.; Song, W.Q.; Zheng, H.Q.; Jin, L.; Suib, S.L.; He, J. A facile synthesis of Fe3C@mesoporous carbon nitride nanospheres with superior electrocatalytic activity. *Nanoscale* **2016**, *8*, 5441–5445. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C6NR00604C)
- 46. Liu, Y.Y.; Wang, H.T.; Lin, D.C.; Zhao, J.; Liu, C.; Xie, J.; Cui, Y. A Prussian blue route to nitrogen-doped graphene aerogels as efficient electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction with enhanced active site accessibility. *Nano Res.* **2017**, *10*, 1213–1222. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-016-1300-x)
- 47. Luo, Y.; Zhang, J.; Kiani, M.; Chen, Y.H.; Chen, J.W.; Wang, G.; Chan, S.H.; Wang, R.L. Synthesis of MOF-Derived Nonprecious Catalyst with High Electrocatalytic Activity for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.* **2018**, *57*, 12087–12095. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.8b02744)
- 48. Yang, L.J.; Feng, S.Z.; Xu, G.C.; Wei, B.; Zhang, L. Electrospun MOF-Based FeCo Nanoparticles Embedded in Nitrogen-Doped Mesoporous Carbon Nanofibers as an Efficient Bifunctional Catalyst for Oxygen Reduction and Oxygen Evolution Reactions in Zinc-Air Batteries. *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 5462–5475. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b06624)
- 49. Dong, L.; Zang, J.B.; Wang, W.P.; Liu, X.; Zhang, Y.; Su, J.; Wang, Y.H.; Han, X.M.; Li, J.S. Electrospun single iron atoms dispersed carbon nanofibers as high performance electrocatalysts toward oxygen reduction reaction in acid and alkaline media. *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2020**, *564*, 134–142. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.12.120)
- 50. Liu, T.T.; Cai, S.; Gao, Z.H.; Liu, S.M.; Li, H.N.; Chen, L.J.; Li, M.; Guo, H. Facile synthesis of the porous FeCo@nitrogen-doped carbon nanosheets as bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts. *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *335*, 135647. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2020.135647)
- 51. Liu, J.T.; Xie, Y.; Gao, Q.; Cao, F.H.; Qin, L.; Wu, Z.Y.; Zhang, W.; Li, H.; Zhang, C.L. 1D MOF-Derived N-Doped Porous Carbon Nanofibers Encapsulated with Fe3C Nanoparticles for Efficient Bifunctional Electrocatalysis. *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* **2020**, *2020*, 581–589. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/ejic.201901244)
- 52. Zhang, W.D.; Liu, X.M.; Gao, M.; Shang, H.; Liu, X.H. Co-Zn-MOFs Derived N-Doped Carbon Nanotubes with Crystalline Co Nanoparticles Embedded as Effective Oxygen Electrocatalysts. *Nanomaterials* **2021**, *11*, 261. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.3390/nano11020261) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33498472)
- 53. Mooste, M.; Kibena-Poldsepp, E.; Vassiljeva, V.; Kikas, A.; Kaarik, M.; Kozlova, J.; Kisand, V.; Kulaviir, M.; Cavaliere, S.; Leis, J.; et al. Electrospun Polyacrylonitrile-Derived Co or Fe Containing Nanofibre Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction at the Alkaline Membrane Fuel Cell Cathode. *Chemcatchem* **2020**, *12*, 4568–4581. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202000658)
- 54. Ratso, S.; Kaarik, M.; Kook, M.; Paiste, P.; Kisand, V.; Vlassov, S.; Leis, J.; Tammeveski, K. Iron and Nitrogen Co-doped Carbide-Derived Carbon and Carbon Nanotube Composite Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Chemelectrochem* **2018**, *5*, 1827–1836. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201800132)
- 55. Praats, R.; Kaarik, M.; Kikas, A.; Kisand, V.; Aruvali, J.; Paiste, P.; Merisalu, M.; Leis, J.; Sammelselg, V.; Zagal, J.H.; et al. Electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction on iron phthalocyanine-modified carbide-derived carbon/carbon nanotube composite electrocatalysts. *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *334*, 135575. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.135575)
- 56. Lee, H.; Kim, M.J.; Lim, T.; Sung, Y.E.; Kim, H.J.; Lee, H.N.; Kwon, O.J.; Cho, Y.H. A facile synthetic strategy for iron, aniline-based non-precious metal catalysts for polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells. *Sci. Rep.* **2017**, *7*, 5396. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-05830-y)
- 57. Kruusenberg, I.; Ramani, D.; Ratso, S.; Joost, U.; Saar, R.; Rauwel, P.; Kannan, A.M.; Tammeveski, K. Cobalt-Nitrogen Co-doped Carbon Nanotube Cathode Catalyst for Alkaline Membrane Fuel Cells. *Chemelectrochem* **2016**, *3*, 1455–1465. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201600241)

*Energies* **2022**, *15*, 4029 15 of 15

58. Sokka, A.; Mooste, M.; Kaeuroaeurorik, M.; Gudkova, V.; Kozlova, J.; Kikas, A.; Kisand, V.; Treshchalov, A.; Tamm, A.; Paiste, P.; et al. Iron and cobalt containing electrospun carbon nanofibre-based cathode catalysts for anion exchange membrane fuel cell. *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 31275–31287. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.07.025)

- 59. Hanif, S.; Iqbal, N.; Shi, X.; Noor, T.; Ali, G.; Kannan, A.M. NiCo-N-doped carbon nanotubes based cathode catalyst for alkaline membrane fuel cell. *Renew. Energy* **2020**, *154*, 508–516. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2020.03.060)
- 60. Wang, C.H.; Yang, C.W.; Lin, Y.C.; Chang, S.T.; Chang, S.L.Y. Cobalt-iron(II,III) oxide hybrid catalysis with enhanced catalytic activities for oxygen reduction in anion exchange membrane fuel cell. *J. Power Sources* **2015**, *277*, 147–154. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.12.007)
- 61. Li, X.G.; Popov, B.N.; Kawahara, T.; Yanagi, H. Non-precious metal catalysts synthesized from precursors of carbon, nitrogen, and transition metal for oxygen reduction in alkaline fuel cells. *J. Power Sources* **2011**, *196*, 1717–1722. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2010.10.018)
- <span id="page-14-0"></span>62. Mooste, M.; Tkesheliadze, T.; Kozlova, J.; Kikas, A.; Kisand, V.; Treshchalov, A.; Tamm, A.; Aruvali, J.; Zagal, J.H.; Kannan, A.M.; et al. Transition metal phthalocyanine-modified shungite-based cathode catalysts for alkaline membrane fuel cell. *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 4365–4377. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.10.231)