---
source: Luo 等 - 2019 - Single‐Atom Cr−N4 Sites Designed for Durable Oxygen Reduction Catalysis in Acid Media.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 16.196s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:36:36.771765Z
---

## **Akzeptierter Artikel**

**Titel:** Single-Atom Cr-N4 Sites Designed for Durable Oxygen Reduction Catalysis in Acid Media

Autoren: Ergui Luo, Hao Zhang, Xian Wang, Liqin Gao, Liyuan Gong, Tuo Zhao, Zhao Jin, Junjie Ge, Zheng Jiang, Changpeng Liu, and Wei Xing

Dieser Beitrag wurde nach Begutachtung und Überarbeitung sofort als "akzeptierter Artikel" (Accepted Article; AA) publiziert und kann unter Angabe der unten stehenden Digitalobjekt-Identifizierungsnummer (DOI) zitiert werden. Die deutsche Übersetzung wird gemeinsam mit der endgültigen englischen Fassung erscheinen. Die endgültige englische Fassung (Version of Record) wird ehestmöglich nach dem Redigieren und einem Korrekturgang als Early-View-Beitrag erscheinen und kann sich naturgemäß von der AA-Fassung unterscheiden. Leser sollten daher die endgültige Fassung, sobald sie veröffentlicht ist, verwenden. Für die AA-Fassung trägt der Autor die alleinige Verantwortung.

**Zitierweise:** Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 10.1002/anie.201906289 Angew. Chem. 10.1002/ange.201906289

Link zur VoR: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201906289 http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201906289 **COMMUNICATION**

# **Single-Atom Cr-N<sup>4</sup> Sites Designed for Durable Oxygen Reduction Catalysis in Acid Media**

Ergui Luo, +[a,b] Hao Zhang,+[c,e] Xian Wang, [a,b] Liqin Gao, [a] Liyuan Gong, [a,b] Tuo Zhao, [a,b] Zhao Jin[a], Junjie Ge,\* [a,b] Zheng Jiang,\* [c,d] Changpeng Liu,\* [a,b] and Wei Xing\* [a,b]

**Abstract:** Single-atom catalysts (SACs) are attracting widespread interest towards the catalytic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), among which Fe-N<sup>x</sup> SACs exhibit the most promising activity. However, Fe based catalysts suffer serious stability issue from oxidative corrosion via Fenton reaction. Herein, using metal organic framework as anchoring matrix, we for the first time obtained pyrolyzed Cr/N/C SACs for ORR, where the atomically dispersed Cr are confirmed in Cr-N<sup>4</sup> coordination structure. The Cr/N/C catalyst exhibits excellent ORR activity with optimal half-wave potential of 0.773V versus RHE. More excitingly, the Fenton reaction is substantially restrained and therefore the final catalysts show superb stability. This work proposes an innovative and robust active site for ORR, which opens a new route to circumvent the stability issue regarding the non-noble metal ORR catalysts.

Single-atom catalysts (SACs) offer great potential in reducing the cost of electrode materials for promising energy conversion devices including fuel cells and water electrolysis. [1] They have been proved to deliver extraordinary catalytic behavior due to the special coordination environment and the tailored electronic structure.[2] Meanwhile, the synergistic effect between single atoms and clusters or nanoparticles was suggested by Kim et al.[3] and Liu et al.[4] , with significantly boosted HER and ORR activities achieved in their recent studies. The first use of singleatom site catalysts for ORR can date back to the groundbreaking discovery of cobalt phthalocyanine as an efficient

[a] Dr. E. Luo, Dr. X. Wang, Dr. L. Gao, Dr. L. Gong, Dr. T. Zhao, Dr. Z. Jin, Prof. J. Ge, Prof. C. Liu, Prof. W. Xing Laboratory of Advanced Power Sources; Jilin Province Key Laboratory of Low Carbon Chemical Power Sources Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences

Changchun, Jilin, 130022 (P.R. China)

E-mail: [gejj@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:gejj@ciac.ac.cn)  [liuchp@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:liuchp@ciac.ac.cn) [xingwei@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:xingwei@ciac.ac.cn)

[b] Dr. E. Luo, Dr. X. Wang, Dr. L. Gong, Dr. T. Zhao, Prof. J. Ge, Prof. C. Liu, Prof. W. Xing

School of Applied Chemistry and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China

Hefei, Anhui, 230026 (P.R. China) [c] Dr. H. Zhang, Prof. Z. Jiang

Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, Chinese Academy of Science, Shanghai, 201800 (P.R. China) E-mail: [jiangzheng@sinap.ac.cn](mailto:jiangzheng@sinap.ac.cn)

[d] Prof. Z. Jiang

Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Zhangjiang Lab Shanghai Advanced Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Science,

Shanghai, 201210 (P.R. China)

[e] Dr. H. Zhang

University of Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing, 100049 (P.R. China)

+ ] These authors contributed equally to this work.

> Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.((Please delete this text if not appropriate))

catalyst in 1964, driven by the demand for precious metal-free catalysts. [5] Since then, various metal macrocyclics have been investigated as the single-atom site catalysts, although without being specifically named.[6] The activities of these macrocyclics were found strongly dependent on the central metal elements, which follows the well-known Sabatier principle to exhibit volcano-shaped curves.[6b, 7] Benefit from the suitable M-O<sup>2</sup> adsorption energy, Fe, the nearest element to the top of the inverted parabola, was screened out as the most active metal center.[7b] Later on, it was discovered that pyrolyzed M/N/C (M = Fe, Co, etc.) catalysts, who possess the similar M-N<sup>4</sup> coordinated environment to the macrocyclics, perform even better ORR catalysis behavior in terms of intrinsic activity.[8] It was interpreted that the pyrolyzed M-N<sup>4</sup> centers are in a more electron withdrawing carbon texture, where the carbon substrate plays a pivotal role in tuning the energy level of the metal center.[9] In this regard, the validity of the original Volcano plot obtained from the macrocyclic compounds is partly questioned, with the adding influence of carbon substrate counted. This leads to a grand opportunity in searching for new pyrolyzed catalysts other than Fe/N/C, which represents up-to-date the most efficient ORR performance but suffers substantially from Fenton reaction. To be specific, the Fe centers catalyze the reaction intermediate, H2O2, to form the highly active reactive oxygen species (ROS), which attack the carbon substrate and results in fast activity degradation.[10] The H2O<sup>2</sup> formation is unavoidable in ORR as an intermediate, especially in the circumstance of SACs where oxygen molecule prefers to adsorb via side-on or end-on modes.[6b, 11] Therefore, ROS induced deterioration for Fe SACs is material-intrinsic, and the durability challenge can only be solved if Fenton reaction can be alleviated to a large extent, like using center elements of SACs that are less Fenton reactive. However, to date, the development of alternative SACs (like Mn, Ru, etc.) for acidic ORR is still in its infancy, [12] thus leaving enormous opportunities for researchers to solve the remaining stability bottleneck of the platinum group metal-free ORR catalysts. Meanwhile, extended investigation on varied metal centers is crucial for the lucid understanding of the catalytic behavior of M/N/C catalysts, thereby guiding further performance optimization.

Herein, we build a decent Cr SACs platform to catalyze the ORR in acid media. A typical metal organic framework (ZIF) acts as a perfect matrix to host the Cr source [8e, 13] when combining with a solvent assisted surface integration strategy. Despite the hydrolysis of Cr ions in the ZIF micropores, Cr SACs are formed upon pyrolysis. We confirm that Cr single atoms show planar Cr-N<sup>4</sup> configuration, by using extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) and its wavelet transform (WT). Interestingly, the Cr SACs exhibit very impressive ORR activity in acid, i.e., an half wave potential at 0.773V. This is in drastic comparison to its macrocyclic counterpart, which was basically claimed inactive towards ORR due to the overly strong bonding to oxygen species.[7b] Thus, this finding firmly confirms the value in

**Figure 1.** (a) Schematic depiction of the synthesis of Cr SACs. (b) The k weighted Cr K-edge Fourier transform EXAFS spectra of Cr-ZIF and reference CrCl3·6H2O and Cr2O3. (c) XRD patterns of ZIF, Cr-ZIF precursors, NC-950 and Cr/N/C-950. (d) SEM, (e) TEM, (f) STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images of Cr/N/C-950; (g) Atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM image of Cr/N/C-950, showing the atomic dispersion of chromium.

searching for SACs that initially claimed inert in macrocyclic surroundings. Moreover, the Cr SACs are far less active in catalyzing the Fenton reaction, leading to an enormously better stability compared to the Fe SACs counterpart, thus making it a more realistic catalyst towards the ORR application.

We first show the synthetic strategy of Cr SACs in Figure 1a, where ZIF skeleton absorbs hydrated CrCl<sup>3</sup> into its micropores through host-guest interaction. The confinement of Cr atoms in the micropores, rather than partially substituting Zn node in the frame, is verified by the lack of Cr-N scattering path (Figure 1b and S1) in extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis. The filling of the micropores after Cr integration is further reflected by the slightly decreased pore volume (Figure S2 and Table S1). Moreover, the coordination environment of Cr is altered from the original CrCl3·6H2O, where additional second shell Cr-O-Cr path (2.46 Å) is noticed. This suggests that the micropore confined Cr ions undergo a hydrolysis procedure to a certain extent, instead of directly forming atomically dispersed metal source in every single micropore. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) shows a Cr content of 0.62 wt% in Cr-ZIF. Due to the ultra-low intake of heterogeneous Cr in the micropores and their lack of crystallinity, the XRD pattern (Figure 1c) shows no perceptible changes to the original ZIF-8. Meanwhile, we show that the Cr-integrated precursor mainly preserves the rhomb dodecahedral morphology of the pristine ZIF-8, except for a few broken ones (Figure S3 and S4). Upon pyrolysis, the Cr doped ZIF results in hollow products distinctly differ from the inherited morphology of pure NC-950 (Figure 1d, e and S3). This phenomenon is ascribed to the encapsulation of Cr ions to the superficial layer of the ZIF, who are non-volatile and capture/fix more CN<sup>x</sup> species during pyrolysis. As a result, the internal CN<sup>x</sup> species tend to diffuse to the surface and yield a hollow morphology, where the structure alteration becomes more distinct at higher pyrolysis temperature (Figure S5). Figure S6a presents the high resolution TEM micrograph of Cr/N/C-950, showing partially graphitized carbon texture without any discernible metallic particles, which coincides with the XRD pattern (absence of metal-based crystalline peaks, Figure 1c). However, ICP-MS and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results verify the successful doping of Cr into the resultant, with content of 0.94-2.6 wt% and 0.23-0.66 at%, respectively, depending on the amount of CrCl<sup>3</sup> used (Table S2). The high resolution XPS Cr 2p spectrum splits into two peaks assignable to Cr 2p3/2 (577.2 eV) and Cr 2p1/2 (586.8 eV), which match the 3+ state of Cr (Figure S8 and S9). N 1s spectrum reveals the coexistence of N species involving pyridinic-, pyrrolic-, and graphitic-N. Elemental mapping further corroborates the well distribution of Cr and N (Figure 1f). We then resort to the aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscope to probe the fine metal distribution. Examples of HAADF-STEM images from several randomly selected areas are given in Figure 1g and S6b-i. The substrate is densely decorated with isolated bright dots, clearly elucidating the atomic dispersion of Cr, which is a prerequisite for the utmost utilization of Cr element.[1a] The simultaneous presence of N and Cr in the final sample is further validated by EDX, where N and Cr signals are evenly distributed in the selected area (Figure S7).

 Fully unleashing the activity of the Cr SACs relies on the accessibility of active sites, which in turn is highly dependent on the pore structure of the final product. N<sup>2</sup> adsorption−desorption technique was performed to delve the invisible pore structural characteristics (Figure S10 and S11). In comparison to NC-950 in Type I isotherm (typical of microporous materials), Cr/N/C-950

**Figure 2.** (a) The k<sup>3</sup> -weighted Cr K-edge Fourier transform EXAFS spectra of Cr/N/C-950 and reference of Cr foil and Cr2O3. (b) WT-EXAFS plot of Cr/N/C-950 and reference Cr foil and Cr2O<sup>3</sup> (κ=3, σ=1.5). (c) The normalized Cr Kedge XANES spectra of Cr/N/C-950 and reference Cr foil and Cr2O3. (d) Experimental and best-fitting Cr K-edge EXAFS curves of Cr/N/C-950. (e) Schematic model of Cr-centered configuration in Cr/N/C-950. Cr, green; N, blue; C, gray.

distinctively conforms to a Type IV isotherm with H4 hysteresis noticed, thus representing a mesoporous structure. According to the BJH calculation, a clear peak associated with pore width of 4.6 nm is observed (Figure S10b). The internal large cavity along with numerous mesopores create a more open architecture which facilitate mass transfer.[14] Besides, Cr atoms are enriched in the superficial layer, thus offering a closer proximity between active sites and reactants.[15]

To ascertain the precise surrounding geometric structure of Cr atom within Cr/N/C-950, extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) and X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) were performed at Cr K-edge. In the FT-EXAFS spectra of Cr/N/C-950 (Figure 2a), the dominated peak located at 1.54 Å (without phase shift) is ascribed to Cr-N (O) scattering path. Meanwhile, the lack of metallic Cr-Cr (2.24 Å) and secondshell Cr-O-Cr (2.45 Å) scattering path in Cr/N/C-950 indicates the absence of Cr based metal or oxide phase, which further corroborates the formation of Cr SAC. It is very interesting to note that, in spite of hydrolysate formed in the ZIF precursor, Cr in the final catalysts exhibit exclusively atomic dispersion. Thus, the construction of SACs does not necessitate a single atom precursor, and the formation of single atoms can be thermodynamically more favorable than the metal particles or metal oxides at certain circumstances, for instance, in this case during high temperature pyrolysis. In early studies on molecular MN<sup>4</sup> catalysts, it is known that Cr phthalocyanine bonds to oxygen overly strong, locates on the M−O strong binding leg and falls far from the apex of Volcano plot.[7b] Thus, extreme precautions are called for to distinguish if Cr is coordinated with O atom or not. However, due to the close location of N and O in periodic table, the scattering disparity between the two elements is negligible in R space presented by FT-EXAFS spectra. Therefore, we resort to wavelet-transform (WT) EXAFS analysis because it can discriminate the backscattering atoms even when they overlap substantially in R-space, by providing additional kspace resolution.[16] Figure 2b shows the WT contour plots of the three k -weighted χ(k) signals based on Morlet wavelets with optimum resolution. It is obvious that Cr/N/C-950 shows a WTmaximum with k value of 3.8 Å-1 for the Cr-N path, which is sharply distinguished from the Cr-O (Cr2O3) path (k=4.2 Å-1 ). Therefore, the Cr-N (O) (1.54 Å) scattering path observed in R space is unambiguously ascribed to the Cr-N scattering path. The least-squares EXAFS fitting of Cr/N/C-950 in R space was further performed for acquiring the quantitative structural parameters. The best fitting result (Figure 2d and Table S3) shows that the mononuclear Cr is coordinated by four N atoms with a distance of 2.00 Å, verifying a Cr-N<sup>4</sup> configuration.

The valence state and the local bonding symmetry of Cr/N/C-950 are probed by the XANES (Figure 2c). The normalized Cr Kedge absorption threshold of Cr/N/C-950 shifts to higher energy compared to Cr and is similar to Cr2O3, suggesting that Cr atoms are positively charged and carries an oxidation state of approximately 3+. However, the overall profile of Cr/N/C-950 drastically deviates from that of Cr2O3, which can be ascribed to their intrinsically different coordination environment. Additionally, an obvious pre-edge peak at 5991.8 eV is noticed, which corresponds to a strict square-planar configuration with D4h symmetry.[17] The strict square-planar configuration suggests the absence of axial bonded oxygen species (Figure 2e), agrees

**Figure 3.** Electrochemical characterization. (a, b) ORR polarization curves of different catalysts recorded in O<sup>2</sup> saturated 0.1 M HClO<sup>4</sup> with a catalyst loading of 0.6 mgCr/N/C cm-2 or 0.03 mgPt cm-2 . Rotation speed: 1600 rpm; (c) Tafel plots derived from LSV curves for Cr/N/C-950, Fe/N/C-950 and 20% Pt/C; (d) LSV curves (bottom) recorded with different catalyst loading of Cr/N/C-950 and the number of electrons transferred (top) during ORR.

well with the WT-EXAFS results. This feature is distinctively different from the Fe/N/C catalysts, where axial O ligand is found in most cases and thus forming distorted structures.[8e] Such difference implies that oxygen binding is significantly weakened on Cr-N<sup>4</sup> moiety in Cr/N/C-950, which may generate a surprising catalytic behavior.

Electrochemical activity evaluation for ORR was carried out on the obtained products in 0.1 M HClO<sup>4</sup> electrolyte using a threeelectrode system. The performance quantification is based on the LSV curves collected on RDE or RRDE, as shown in Figure 3a, b. The addition of CrCl<sup>3</sup> precursor at different amount caused the variation of Cr content (0.94 wt%-2.6 wt %) in the samples, thereby leading to variation of E1/2 between 0.738 V and 0.773 V (Figure 3a). The representative Cr/N/C-950 sample, with a moderate metal content (1.9 wt%) selected to avoid the interference from Cr nanoparticles, displays E1/2 of 0.761V. Interestingly, a Tafel slope of 37 mV dec-1 is extracted from the LSV curve of Cr/N/C-950, much lower than those of commercial Pt/C (62 mV dec-1 ) and Fe/N/C-950 (61 mV dec-1 ) prepared through a similar approach (Figure 3c). Such low Tafel slope indicates the change in ORR mechanism, where the rate limiting step is transited from the first electron transfer process to the following steps associated with the proton coupled electron transfers. Further mechanism study was carried out by the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) evaluation, showing a 2×2e- (indirect 4e- ) pathway [18] dominates the ORR (Figure 3d and S12a). The peroxide reduction reaction (PRR) activity of Cr/N/C-950 was then investigated in deoxygenated 0.1 M HClO<sup>4</sup> containing 1.2 mM H2O<sup>2</sup> (Figure S12b). Significant PRR current is observed, with potential range overlaps with that of ORR (in kinetic limit region), thus indicating the competency of Cr/N/C-950 towards unhindered sequential conversion from O<sup>2</sup> to H2O.

The morphological advantage of our post adsorption technique is also well embodied in the electrochemical tests, with a one-pot synthesized catalyst (CrCl<sup>3</sup> added to the

**Figure 4.** Comparison of polarization curves of (a) Cr/N/C-950 and (b) Fe/N/C-950 initially and after accelerated degradation test for 20000 cycles. (c) Top: reaction between ROS and ABTS; Bottom: photographs showing the color change of the solution after Fenton reaction. (d) UV−vis absorption spectra of 0.1 M HClO<sup>4</sup> solutions include only ABTS; Cr/N/C-950 and ABTS; H2O<sup>2</sup> and ABTS; Fe/N/C-950 and ABTS; Cr/N/C-950, H2O<sup>2</sup> and ABTS; Fe/N/C-950, H2O<sup>2</sup> and ABTS after 7 min reaction. Inset presents the absorbance change at 417 nm after subtraction of the value of H2O<sup>2</sup> + ABTS treated solution. Blue: Fe/N/C+H2O2+ABTS; Cyan: Cr/N/C+H2O2+ABTS.

precursor directly) used as comparison. The catalysts synthesized through one-pot technique, which maintains the solid rhomb dodecahedral morphology due to the homogeneous dispersion of Cr in the ZIF (Figure S13), displays E1/2 of 0.748 V at best, accompanied with low limiting current density (Figure S14a). This result well demonstrates the superiority of the mesoporous hollow structure of our catalysts, where the active sites are more accessible.

To identify the true active site in the Cr/N/C catalysts, another system deriving from oxidized BP-2000, melamine and CrCl<sup>3</sup> is also explored. Firstly, the Cr-free NC-950 and metal-free N/BP exhibit quite poor activities (Table S2 and Figure 3a and S14b), indicating that Zn and pure N are both not active enough to catalyze acidic ORR. Secondly, all the final Cr/N/C catalysts exceedingly outperform the Cr-free NC-950 counterpart. The E1/2 and kinetic current density (jk) are positively correlated with the content of Cr (Figure S15), suggesting the indispensable role of Cr in catalyzing ORR in the Cr/N/C catalysts. Finally, the possibility that pure Cr element is active site is also excluded as the performance of Cr/BP is even worse than N/BP. The necessity in co-presence of Cr and N to ensure remarkable ORR activity is further validated by the final performance of the Cr/N/BP catalyst, with E1/2 of 0.74 V (Figure S14b) being observed. SCNprobe ion, with its high affinity to M-Nx centers and thus poisoning the ORR catalysis,[19] was then employed to further ascertain the active sites in Cr/N/C. Figure S16a clearly shows that the introduction of SCNcauses a negative shift of 60 mV in E1/2 and remarkably depressed diffusion limiting current density. We thus conclude that Cr and N atoms constitute the active center. In accordance with the aforementioned XAFS analysis, Cr-N<sup>4</sup> configuration is confirmed as the origin of the high ORR activity for Cr/N/C catalysts. Although the optimal catalyst cannot rival the commercial 20 % Pt/C, this is the first work so far to unveil the striking activity of single atom Cr-N<sup>4</sup> embedded in carbon texture.

The stability of the SACs is the utmost important issue, which directly determines their applicability. Therefore, the Cr/N/C-950 catalyst was subjected to an accelerated degradation test (ADT) in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4. Strikingly, only 15 mV decay in E1/2 is observed for Cr/N/C-950 after 20000 potential cycles, much lower than the counterpart Fe/N/C-950 catalyst (31 mV) (Figure 4a, b). No obvious metal agglomeration, shape evolution and Cr leaching were observed after the ADT test (Figure S18). The chronoamperometric measurement further confirms the robustness of Cr/N/C-950 (Figure S19a). Note that the Cr/N/C-950 catalyst shows high H2O<sup>2</sup> production (Figure S12a and S20), it is suggested that the H2O<sup>2</sup> amount is not the determining factor responsible for the catalysts degradation. We therefore deduce that the superb stability of Cr/N/C-950 originates from its low activity to catalyze the Fenton reaction, thus suffers less from the oxidative damage from ROS. To assess the ROS producing level, UV−vis absorption spectrometry was employed with ABTS (2, 20-azinobis (3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonate) as substrate. As a widely adopted probe, ABTS can be oxidized by ROS (Figure 4c), resulting in an absorbance change at 417 nm and visual color change from colorless to green (See experimental details in supporting information).[20] Excitingly, Figure 4d shows that the absorbance value of Cr/N/C-950 is only 4.3% of the Fe/N/C-950 counterpart, thus unambitiously demonstrates the suppress of ROS formation with Cr/N/C-950 as catalyst. Specifically, the ADT results show that with the ROS formation problem solved, the Cr SAC shows even slower degradation rate compared with Pt/C (Figure S21), thus suggesting a promising future of the Cr/N/C catalysts for longterm operation. For direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC), methanol tolerance is a vital indicator for the evaluation of cathodic catalysts.[21] Though sharp current density decay is observed for Pt/C catalyst, Cr/N/C-950 is insusceptible to methanol injection (Figure S19b), implying the better selectivity of Cr/N/C catalysts toward ORR.

In summary, a pyrolyzed Cr SACs system has been elaborately constructed and performed encouragingly in catalyzing acidic ORR. The post-integration strategy exerted on imidazolate framework can induce the creation of more open architecture upon pyrolysis, which enables the maximum accessibility of catalytic sites. Combined analyses of microscopic and spectroscopic techniques verify that Cr-N<sup>4</sup> configuration predominantly accounts for its high activity. Besides its impressive performance, this catalyst exhibits much superior durability to the Fe/N/C counterpart and commercial Pt/C due to the weak Fenton-like reactivity. This work may serve to address the stability challenge of conventional non-noble metal catalysts and present a new model for the in-depth exploration of catalytic mechanism on M-N<sup>x</sup> active sites in pyrolyzed SACs.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21433003, 21633008 , 21875243 , 21603216,U1601211), National Science and Technology Major Project (2017YFB0102900), Jilin Province Science and Technology Development Program (20190201270JC, 20180101030JC, and 20170203003SF), Hundred Talents Program of Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Recruitment Program of Foreign Experts (WQ20122200077).

**Keywords:** oxygen reduction • single-atom catalysts • chromium • Fenton reaction • stability

- [1] a) X. F. Yang, A. Wang, B. Qiao, J. Li, J. Liu, T. Zhang, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 1740-1748; b) Y. Han, Y. G. Wang, W. Chen, R. Xu, L. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Luo, R. A. Shen, Y. Zhu, W. C. Cheong, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17269-17272; c) J. N. Tiwari, A. M. Harzandi, M. Ha, S. Sultan, C. W. Myung, H. J. Park, D. Y. Kim, P. Thangavel, A. N. Singh, P. Sharma, S. S. Chandrasekaran, F. Salehnia, J. W. Jang, H. S. Shin, Z. Lee, K. S. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, 1900931; d) J. Liu, M. Jiao, B. Mei, Y. Tong, Y. Li, M. Ruan, P. Song, G. Sun, L. Jiang, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, L. Gu, Z. Zhou, W. Xu, *Angew.Chem. Int.Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 1163-1167; *Angew.Chem.* **2019**, *131*,1175–1179.
- [2] a) J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, X. Guo, C. Chen, C.-L. Dong, R.-S. Liu, C.-P. Han, Y. Li, Y. Gogotsi, G. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 985-992; b) Y. Chen, S. Ji, S. Zhao, W. Chen, J. Dong, W. C. Cheong, R. Shen, X. Wen, L. Zheng, A. I. Rykov, S. Cai, H. Tang, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 5422; c) M. Xiao, J. Zhu, G. Li, N. Li, S. Li, Z. P. Cano, L. Ma, P. Cui, P. Xu, G. Jiang, H. Jin, S. Wang, T. Wu, J. Lu, A. Yu, D. Su, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 2–8; d) S. Sultan, J. N. Tiwari, A. N. Singh, S. Zhumagali, M. Ha, C. W. Myung, P. Thangavel, K. S. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1900624.
- [3] J. N. Tiwari, S. Sultan, C. W. Myung, T. Yoon, N. Li, M. Ha, A. M. Harzandi, H. J. Park, D. Y. Kim, S. S. Chandrasekaran, W. G. Lee, V. Vij, H. Kang, T. J. Shin, H. S. Shin, G. Lee, Z. Lee, K. S. Kim, *Nat. Energy* **2018**, *3*, 773-782.
- [4] L. Chong, J. Wen, J. Kubal, F. G. Sen, J. Zou, J. Greeley, M. Chan, H. Barkholtz, W. Ding, D. J. Liu, *Science* **2018**, *362*, 1276-1281.
- [5] a) R. Jasinski, *Nature* **1964**, *201*, 1212-1213; b) W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. Liang, R. Zou, S. Guo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2650-2676; *Angew.Chem.* **2016**, *128*, 2698–2726.
- [6] a) F. V. d. Brink, E. Barendrecht, W. Visscher, *Recl. Trav. Chim. Pays Bas* **1980**, *99*, 253–262; b) J. H. Zagal, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **1992**, *119*, 89-136; c) P. Vasudevan, Santosh, N. Mann, S. Tyagi, *Transition Met. Chem.* **2013**, *15*, 81-90; d) Z. P. Li, B. H. Liu, *J. Appl. Electrochem.* **2009**, *40*, 475-483.
- [7] a) J. A. R. van Veen, J. F. van Baar, C. J. Kroese, J. G. F. Coolegem, N. De Wit, H. A. Colijn, *Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem.* **1981**, *85*, 693-700; b) J. H. Zagal, M. T. Koper, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 14510- 14521; *Angew.Chem.* **2016**, *128*, 14726–14738; c) A. J. Appleby, J. H. Zagal, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2011**, *15*, 1811-1832.
- [8] a) A. L. Bouwkamp-Wijnoltz, W. Visscher, J. A. R. van Veen, E. Boellaard, A. M. van der Kraan, S. C. Tang, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2002**, *106*, 12993-13001; b) M. Lefevre, E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, J. P. Dodelet, *Science* **2009**, *324*, 71-74; c) G. Wu, K. L. More, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, *Science* **2011**, *332*, 443-447; d) A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M. T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, 937-942; e) Y. Chen, S. Ji, Y. Wang, J. Dong, W. Chen, Z. Li, R. Shen, L. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6937-6941; *Angew. Chem.* **2017**, *129*, 7041–

- 7045; f) W. Liang, J. Chen, Y. Liu, S. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 4170- 4177; g) D. Ji, L. Fan, L. Li, S. Peng, D. Yu, J. Song, S. Ramakrishna, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.***2019**, *31*, 1808267.
- [9] N. Ramaswamy, U. Tylus, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 15443-15449.
- [10] a) C. H. Choi, H.-K. Lim, M. W. Chung, G. Chon, N. Ranjbar Sahraie, A. Altin, M.-T. Sougrati, L. Stievano, H. S. Oh, E. S. Park, F. Luo, P. Strasser, G. Dražić, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, H. Kim, F. Jaouen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 3176-3182; b) U. Tylus, Q. Jia, K. Strickland, N. Ramaswamy, A. Serov, P. Atanassov, S. Mukerjee, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2014**, *118*, 8999-9008; c) Y. He, S. Hwang, D. A. Cullen, M. A. Uddin, L. Langhorst, B. Li, S. Karakalos, A. J. Kropf, E. C. Wegener, J. Sokolowski, M. Chen, D. Myers, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 250-260; d) Y. Shao, J. P. Dodelet, G. Wu, P. Zelenay, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, 1807615.
- [11] a) K. Liu, Y. Lei, G. Wang, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2013**, *139*, 204306; b) Y. Liu, X. Yue, K. Li, J. Qiao, D. P. Wilkinson, J. Zhang, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *315*, 153-177.
- [12] a) H. Peng, F. Liu, X. Liu, S. Liao, C. You, X. Tian, H. Nan, F. Luo, H. Song, Z. Fu, P. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 3797-3805; b) C. Zhang, J. Sha, H. Fei, M. Liu, S. Yazdi, J. Zhang, Q. Zhong, X. Zou, N. Zhao, H. Yu, Z. Jiang, E. Ringe, B. I. Yakobson, J. Dong, D. Chen, J. M. Tour, *ACS nano* **2017**, *11*, 6930-6941; c) J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935; d) K. Liu, Z. Qiao, S. Hwang, Z. Liu, H. Zhang, D. Su, H. Xu, G. Wu, G. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *243*, 195-203.
- [13] a) M. Xiao, J. Zhu, L. Ma, Z. Jin, J. Ge, X. Deng, Y. Hou, Q. He, J. Li, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, R. Yang, Z. Jiang, D. Su, C. Liu, W. Xing, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 2824-2832; b) X. Wang, Z. Chen, X. Zhao, T. Yao, W. Chen, R. You, C. Zhao, G. Wu, J. Wang, W. Huang, J. Yang, X. Hong, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 1944-1948; *Angew.Chem.* **2018**, *130*, 1962–1966.
- [14] L. Jiao, G. Wan, R. Zhang, H. Zhou, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 8525-8529; *Angew. Chem.* **2018**, *130*, 8661– 8665.
- [15] Y. Ye, F. Cai, H. Li, H. Wu, G. Wang, Y. Li, S. Miao, S. Xie, R. Si, J. Wang, X. Bao, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *38*, 281-289.
- [16] H. Funke, M. Chukalina, A. C. Scheinost, *J. Synchrotron Rad.* **2007**, *14*, 426-432.
- [17] T. E. Westre, P. Kennepohl, J. G. DeWitt, B. Hedman, K. O. Hodgson, E. I. Solomon, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1997**, *119*, 6297-6314.
- [18] a) A. Muthukrishnan, Y. Nabae, T. Okajima, T. Ohsaka, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 5194-5202; b) J. Li, Y. Song, G. Zhang, H. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Sun, X. Guo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1604356.
- [19] a) Y. Lin, P. Liu, E. Velasco, G. Yao, Z. Tian, L. Zhang, L. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808193; b) Q. Wang, Z. Y. Zhou, Y. J. Lai, Y. You, J. G. Liu, X. L. Wu, E. Terefe, C. Chen, L. Song, M. Rauf, N. Tian, S. G. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 10882-10885; c) Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254-6262.
- [20] a) X. Wu, F. Tian, W. Wang, J. Chen, M. Wu, J. X. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. C* **2013**, *1*, 4676-4684; b) J. Du, J. Wang, W. Huang, Y. Deng, Y. He, *Anal. Chem.* **2018**, *90*, 9959-9965; c) H. Sun, N. Gao, K. Dong, J. Ren, X. Qu, *ACS nano* **2014**, *8*, 6202-6210.
- [21] a) S. Sultan, J. N. Tiwari, J.-H. Jang, A. M. Harzandi, F. Salehnia, S. J. Yoo, K. S. Kim, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801002; b) Y. Li, W. Zhou, H. Wang, L. Xie, Y. Liang, F. Wei, J. C. Idrobo, S. J. Pennycook, H. Dai, *Nat. Nanotechnol*. **2012**, *7*, 394-400.

**COMMUNICATION**

#### **Entry for the Table of Contents**

### COMMUNICATION

Single-atom catalyst with Cr-N<sup>4</sup> sites densely planted in carbon substrate is for the first time obtained, which displays commendable performance towards ORR in acid media. More impressive is its superb stability due to the weak reactivity between Cr and H2O<sup>2</sup> via Fenton reaction.

*Ergui Luo, Hao Zhang, Xian Wang, Liqin Gao, Liyuan Gong, Tuo Zhao, Zhao Jin, Junjie Ge,\* Zheng Jiang,\* Changpeng Liu,\* and Wei Xing\**

*Page No. – Page No.*

**Single-Atom Cr-N<sup>4</sup> Sites Designed for Durable Oxygen Reduction Catalysis in Acid Media**