---
source: Luo 等 - 2023 - Engineering Energy Level of FeN4 Sites via Dual‐Atom Site Construction Toward Efficient O.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.205s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:38:32.105219Z
---

# **Engineering Energy Level of FeN4 Sites via Dual-Atom Site Construction Toward Efficient Oxygen Reduction**

*Zhaoyan Luo, Xianliang Li, Tingyi Zhou, Yi Guan, Jing Luo, Lei Zhang,\* Xueliang Sun,\* Chuanxin He, Qianling Zhang, Yongliang Li, and Xiangzhong Ren\**

**Single-atom catalysts based on metal–N4 moieties and embedded in a graphite matrix (defined as MNC) are promising for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). However, the performance of MNC catalysts is still far from satisfactory due to their imperfect adsorption energy to oxygen species. Herein, single-atom FeNC is leveraged as a model system and report an adjacent Ru-N4 moiety modulation effect to optimize the catalyst's electronic configuration and ORR performance. Theoretical simulations and physical characterizations reveal that the incorporation of Ru-N4 sites as the modulator can alter the d-band electronic energy of Fe center to weaken the FeO binding affinity, thus resulting in the lower adsorption energy of ORR intermediates at Fe sites. Thanks to the synergetic effects of neighboring Fe and Ru single-atom pairs, the FeN4/RuN4 catalyst exhibits a half-wave potential of 0.958 V and negligible activity degradation after 10000 cycles in 0.1 m KOH. Metal–air batteries using this catalyst in the cathode side exhibit a high power density of 219.5 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and excellent cycling stability for over 2370 h, outperforming the state-of-the-art catalysts.**

**1. Introduction**

Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalytic processes play a key role in sustainable energy conversion and storage technologies such as metal–air batteries,[1] fuel cells,[2] and H2O2 electrochemical production[3] Hitherto, the generally recognized precious Pt-group metals (PGMs) related materials possess the highest kinetic activity in catalyzing ORR[4] However, the high cost, scarce and poor poisoning tolerance of Pt have motivated the search for cost-effective PGM-free catalysts.

Pyrolyzed metal–nitrogen–carbon (M–N–C) materials, with metal–nitrogen coordinated sites that mimic biological por-

Z. Luo, X. Li, T. Zhou, L. Zhang, C. He, Q. Zhang, Y. Li, X. Ren College of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering Shenzhen University Shenzhen, Guangdong 518060, P. R. China E-mail: lei.zhang@szu.edu.cn; renxz@szu.edu.cn

Y. Guan, J. Luo, X. Sun Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering University of Western Ontario London, Ontario N6A 5B9, Canada E-mail: xsun9@uwo.ca

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202205283.

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202205283**

phyrin catalysts, are regarded as the most promising candidates to replace PGM catalysts for the ORR[5] Particularly, the FeNC catalysts, consisting of FeN4 active sites embedded into carbon planes, demonstrates the highest catalytic performance among the MNC catalysts[6,7] However, there is still a huge performance gap between state-of-the-art FeNC catalysts and the commercial Pt benchmark, due to the strong binding strength of ORR intermediates to the Fe centers[8] Especially, the desorption of OH\* is the ratedetermining step (RDS) of ORR on single Fe atom sites, yet the overly strong adsorption of OH leads to the discontented ORR performance of FeNC catalysts.[9] Thus, weakening the binding strength of FeO bond and optimizing the oxygen adsorption energies to oxygen intermediates for the single site of FeN4 are imperative for the activity improvement.

Due to the symmetric electron distribution of FeN4 sites, weakening the FeO bond and optimizing the oxygen adsorption energies to oxygen intermediates for the single site of FeN4 are still very limited. Nature catalyzes the O2 via a cytochrome c oxidase (CcO), which is composed of dual metal centers and surrounding organic ligands[10] In the natural enzymes, the adjacent monomers can usually interact with each other by their microenvironments and work cooperatively to effectively catalyze 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR. Inspired by nature, constructing adjacent metal centers to mimic cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) should be a promising strategy to lower Fe d-band centers and accelerate O2 adsorption and dissociation kinetics on FeN4 sites. NiN4, MnN4, and PN4 moieties have been proven effective in promoting the ORR activity of FeN4 moieties. Especially, Chen, et al. reported a novel asymmetric IrCoN5 atomic pair construction to achieve optimal CoO affinity. The atomic Ir incorporation breaks the electronic configuration symmetry of the pristine Co 3d-orbital and induces the electron rearrangement with lower occupancy of dz2 orbital toward faster electron transfer from oxygen and therefore strengthens the oxygen adsorption to enable accelerated oxygen electrocatalysis. Despite some endeavors on constructing dual meta pairs for the electronic modulation, the accurate construction of such adjacent single-atom sites in SACs remains a great challenge and related catalytic investigations are still in their infancy.

In this work, we implanted the adjacent FeN4 and RuN4 sites into ZIF-8 derived nitrogen-doped carbon framework to tailor the adsorption strength of ORR intermediates at the FeN4 sites in Fe/N/C catalyst. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the adjacent atomic RuN4 modulator can modulate the d-orbital electronic structure of Fe and thus optimize the adsorption of oxygen intermediates on the FeN4 site toward boosted ORR kinetics. The resultant FeN4/ RuN4 catalyst shows excellent ORR performance with a halfwave potential of 0.958 V and a high kinetic current density (*J*k) of 28.57 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.9 V, which significantly surpasses that of commercial Pt/C (*E*1/2 = 0.88 V vs RHE, *J*<sup>k</sup> = 1.04 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and outperforms most state-of-the-art M–N–C catalysts. Moreover, when equipped in liquid or flexible solid-state rechargeable Zn–air batteries, the as-prepared FeN4/RuN4 catalyst endows them with high power density and specific capacity with excellent long-term cycling stability, revealing the great promise of FeN4/RuN4 as the ORR catalyst for Zn–air batteries.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Design Model Catalyst Surface**

The synthesis of FeN4/RuN4 catalyst is schematically shown in **Figure 1**a. Initially, we implement a host–guest confinement strategy[11,12] to synthesize the Fe@ZIF-8, where the ZIF-8 frameworks were formed with the assembly of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of the FeN4/RuN4 catalyst. b) XRD pattern. c) SEM image of FeN4/RuN4. d) TEM image of FeN4/RuN4. e) EDS elemental mapping images. f) Sub-angstrom resolution HAADF-STEM pattern (scale bar: 5 nm) of FeN4/RuN4.

16136829, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202205283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.small-journal.com**

and 2-methylimidazole (mIm), and Fe(acac)3 molecules were confined in ZIF-8 micropores (denoted as Fe@ZIF-8). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure 1b) revealed that the crystal structure of Fe@ZIF-8 is similar to that of pristine ZIF-8, which indicates that Fe is encapsulated in the ZIF-8 micropores. Subsequently, the obtained Fe@ZIF-8 and additional RuCl3 were ultrasonically redispersed in ethanol followed by stirring at room temperature for 12 h to convert Fe@ZIF-8 into Fe,Ru@ZIF-8 through absorbing Ru precursor into ZIF-8 micropores (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Finally, the Fe,Ru@ZIF-8 precursors were pyrolyzed at 950 °C under an N2 gas atmosphere for carbonization and Zn removal to obtain the final Fe,Ru-N-C catalysts (denoted as FeN4/RuN4). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) are carried out to characterize the morphology and microstructure of the samples. Figure 1c,d exhibited the morphology of the FeN4/RuN4 catalyst. The FeN4/RuN4 catalyst well retains the spherical morphology of ZIF-8 (rhombdodecahedron shape)[13] suggesting the effectiveness of achieving homogeneous catalyst morphologies by using ZIF-8 as precursors. The atomically uniform dispersion of Fe, Ru, and N on the carbon matrix was confirmed by elemental mapping images of the FeN4/RuN4 catalyst (Figure 1e). To discern the atomic structure of FeN4/RuN4, sub-angstrom resolution highangle circular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (HAADF-STEM) and electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) was carried out. The metal species are predominantly kept as isolated metal atoms, corresponding to densely planted single atom dispersed Fe and Ru sites (Figure 1f; Figures S2 and S3, Supporting Information). Small number of tiny particles are also noticed in the samples, which are revealed as Ru metallic entities (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Notably, two conjoined metal atoms with a bond distance of 5–5.1 Å were observed, which is consistent with those in DFT model. Other structural properties of the FeN4/RuN4, RuN4, and FeN4, including the morphology, pore structure, and surface composition, were investigated and are compared in Figures S5–S10 (Supporting Information). We found that only the surface composition, which correlates with the active site structure, differed among the samples, while the other structural properties remained similar.

### **2.2. Synthesis and Structural Characterization**

To make it clear of the local structural information for Fe and Ru, X-ray absorption energy near-edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy were performed. As shown in **Figure 2**a, Fe K-edge XANES spectra show that the adsorption threshold position of FeN4/RuN4 locates between FeO and Fe2O3, which indicates that the valance of Fe in FeN4/RuN4 is situated between +2 and +3[7,14] In the Fourier transform EXAFS curves (Figure 2b; Figure S11 and Table S1, Supporting Information), the FeN4/RuN4 sample show a prominent peak at ca. 1.5 Å, ascribed to the MN scattering path.[6] The absence of metallic FeFe scattering paths revealed that only MNX coordinates are present in the FeN4/RuN4 catalyst without inactive crystalline phases.[15] According to the best fitting parameters, the coordination number of FeN was 4 with a bond distance of 2.11 Å, while the coordination number of FeO was 2 with a bond distance of 1.94 Å, revealing the possible porphyrinic site structure with an O2 ligand adsorbed on Fe.[16] Moreover, O2–Fe(iii)–N4–C12 moiety is responsible for the high activity.[17] Furthermore, the EXAFS wavelet transforms (WT) plot was also performed to gain more information pertaining to the coordination environment, which is more powerful for distinguishing the backscattering atom. Figure 2c shows the WT contour plots for the three k2 -weighted *χ*(k) signals based on Morlet wavelets with optimum resolution. The Fe foil showed an intensity maximum at 7.5 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (FeFe contribution). In contrast, FeN4/RuN4 exhibited only one intensity maximum at ≈4.0 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in *k* space that was assigned to FeN(O), and the absence of a FeFe metallic path further certified that no metal nanocrystallites is present in the sample.[6,18] Thus, the atomically dispersed Fe atom was expected to be simultaneously coordinated with O and N atoms, forming OxFeN4 active sites. Ru K-edge XANES profiles (Figure 2d) reveal that Ru atoms in FeN4/RuN4 exhibit higher absorption energy and stronger white-line intensity than Ru foil, implying that Ru is positively charged in FeN4/ RuN4. The Ru K-edge Fourier transform EXAFS results display that the co-existence of single atom Ru species (RuN/O path at 1.5 Å) and Ru metallic particles (RuRu path at 2.5 Å) (Figure 2e; Figure S12 and Table S2, Supporting Information). The Ru fraction engaged as metallic particles is calculated as 23%, with isolated Ru revealed as the dominant structure in the sample (77%). The fitting analysis shows an average CN at 4.0 and the bond length at 2.01 Å of the RuN/O path.[11] These results confirm that atomically dispersed FeN4 and FeN4 structures dominant the sample. We furthermore resorted to 57Fe Mössbauer spectroscopy to clarify the Fe coordination environment. The typical sextet and singlet that correspond to *α*-Fe and *γ*-Fe were not detected, indicating the absence of zero-valent Fe crystalline phases, consistent with the XANES result. Two doublets, labeled D1, and D2, representing 28.0% and 37.1% of the absorption area, respectively, were identified (Figure 2f).[12] D1 was identified to be a low-spin Fe(ii)–N4 site, with oxidation and spin state unchanged with electrochemical potential. D2 is commonly assigned to the high-spin O2–Fe(iii)–N4–C12 moiety, which served as an active site for the ORR. Furthermore, we also resorted to 57Fe Mössbauer spectroscopy (Figure S13, Supporting Information) to clarify the Fe coordination environment in FeN4. The 57Fe Mössbauer spectrum of FeN4 was fitted with four components: D1, D2, Fe3+ oxides, and a singlet near zero velocity represents r-Fe. Quantitative analysis from the 57Fe Mössbauer spectrum results revealed that the contents of D1, D2, and crystalline iron species were 28.7%, 31.6%, and 6.1%. The increased D2 content also reveals that the FeN4/RuN4 catalyst manifests higher ORR catalytic activity than FeN4. The zero-field cooling (ZFC) temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility (Figure 2g; Figure S14, Supporting Information) was further measured to study the spin structures of Fe ions affected by the adjacent RuN4 sites.[19] The introduction of MnN moieties causes the increase of the number of unpaired d electron (n) of FeN4/RuN4, which results in the electrons occupying part of the eg orbital. This eg filling will decrease the FeO strong interaction, thus tailoring the adsorption energy at the catalytic center.[20] The temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) of www.advancedsciencenews.com

16136289, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20225283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 2. a) The experimental XANES spectrum of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and reference samples (Fe foil, FeO, and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>). b) Fourier transformation EXAFS experimental spectra of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>. c) WT-EXAFS plots of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> as well as Fe foil reference. d) Ru K-edge spectra. e) Fourier transforms of  $k^3$ -weighted Ru K-edge EXAFS spectra. f) <sup>57</sup>Fe Mössbauer spectrum of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>. g) Magnetic susceptibility of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>. h) O<sub>2</sub>-TPD of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and FeN<sub>4</sub>.

O<sub>2</sub> further supports our claims, shown in Figure 2h. Due to the electron affinity of oxygen, the electron can be transferred from electrode materials to chemisorbed oxygen, so that it requires high temperature for desorption. [21,22] The amount and the O<sub>2</sub> desorption temperature obviously increase from FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> (O<sub>2</sub> desorption temperature is 372.5 °C) to FeN<sub>4</sub> (O<sub>2</sub> desorption temperature is 387.9 °C). The calculated activation energies of that O<sub>2</sub> on the FeN<sub>4</sub> and FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> materials surfaces are 1.98 and 1.92 eV, which indicates that the binding force of O2 on the surface of FeN<sub>4</sub> material is stronger than that of FeN<sub>4</sub>/ RuN<sub>4</sub> material, which is consistent with the ZFC results. In addition, on the basis of XAS experiments, Zitolo et al. [20] also found that O<sub>2</sub>-Fe(iii)-N<sub>4</sub> with two different oxygen-binding configurations (side-on and end-on) are the active sites instead of low- and medium-spin Fe-N<sub>4</sub>. Thus, outstanding ORR activity will be expected for the as-prepared FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> catalyst.

## 2.3. Electrocatalytic ORR Performance of Catalysts

The ORR performance of the  $FeN_4/RuN_4$  catalyst was evaluated using the rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring-disk

electrode (RRDE) techniques in 0.1 m KOH solution in comparison with FeN<sub>4</sub>, RuN<sub>4</sub>, C-N, and commercial Pt/C (Pt/C-JM) catalysts. The linear sweep voltammetry results (Figure 3a) reveal that the FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> catalyst shows superior ORR performance to the FeN4 and RuN4 counterparts in terms of the decreased overpotential and higher limiting current density  $(i_1)$ . Specifically, the half-wave potential (E<sub>1/2</sub>) on FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> was 0.958 V, which obviously surpasses those of RuN<sub>4</sub> ( $E_{1/2}$ : 0.8 V) and FeN<sub>4</sub> (E<sub>1/2</sub>: 0.87 V). The gap at E<sub>1/2</sub> between FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and FeN<sub>4</sub> was 88 mV, suggesting that the Ru-N<sub>4</sub> exhibits as a promoter and remarkably enables the ORR activity of Fe-N<sub>4</sub>. Benefiting from the modulation effect, FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> also outperforms the commercial Pt/C benchmark and most of the atomically dispersed catalysts ever reported.<sup>[23]</sup> Moreover, the ORR kinetic was further investigated by the Tafel slope (Figure 3b). FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> displays a low Tafel slope of 55.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, smaller than that of RuN<sub>4</sub> (61.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and FeN<sub>4</sub> (57 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that the fastest ORR kinetics occur on the FeN<sub>4</sub>/ RuN<sub>4</sub> electrode. In addition, the kinetic current density (j<sub>k</sub>) analysis (Figure 3c) exhibits that FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> delivers a higher  $j_k$  of 28.57 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.9 V than FeN<sub>4</sub> (3.29 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and

16136289, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20225283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 3. a) ORR polarization plots in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH (5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, 1600 rpm). b) Tafel plots of various catalysts. c) Comparison of the kinetic current density ( $J_k$ ) and  $E_{1/2}$  of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>, FeN<sub>4</sub> and 20%Pt—C catalysts. d) LSV curves of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> with various rotation rates. e) Electron transfer number and  $H_2O_2$  yield in ORR on FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> from the RRDE results. f) The durability tests of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>.

20% Pt–C (1.04 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), corresponding to an 8.7-fold and 27.5-fold enhancement, respectively. We calculated the average TOF of our catalysts, we further compared the turnover frequency (TOF) of  $\text{FeN}_4/\text{RuN}_4$ , the TOF of active sites is estimated with data obtained at 0.90 V. The  $\text{FeN}_4/\text{RuN}_4$  exhibited an inimitable TOF as high as 1.98 e<sup>-</sup> site<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>.

Apart from high catalytic activity, a high four-electron selectivity to avoid formation of  $\rm H_2O_2$  is also desirable. We tested the ORR selectivity of  $\rm FeN_4/RuN_4$  through K-L equation technique and RRDE (Figure 3d,e). A desirable 4e-pathway with electron transfer number (n) of 4 is calculated, with a low peroxide production of less than 2%. Benefiting from the outstanding selectivity,  $\rm FeN_4/RuN_4$  potentially possesses an encouraging long-term working durability.  $\rm FeN_4/RuN_4$  manifests a remarkable long-term stability with a negligible decay of  $\rm E_{1/2}$  (5 mV) after 10,000 continuous cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles (Figure 3f), verifying superior catalytic stability of  $\rm FeN_4/RuN_4$ .

The ORR performance of these catalysts was also evaluated using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) in a 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub> electrolyte (Figure S15a, Supporting Information). Without Fe doping, both CNx and Ru-CNx catalysts exhibited poor activities with a very low half-wave potentials, only 0.462 and 0.475 V, respectively. By contrast, the introduction of Fe obviously enhanced the ORR activity. FeN4/RuN4 exhibited a high ORR activity with a halfwave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of 0.82 V, representing one of Fe-N-C catalysts with the higher RDE activity in acids. Fe-N-C catalyst exhibits an  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.78 V, both much lower than that of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>, which suggests that the Ru-N<sub>4</sub> exhibits as a promoter and remarkably enables the ORR activity of Fe-N<sub>4</sub>. Furthermore, excellent electrocatalytic stability is achieved on this catalyst, as confirmed by accelerated degradation test (ADT) (Figure S15b,c, Supporting Information). The ADT experiments show only 13 mV loss of E<sub>1/2</sub> on FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> after  $10\,000$  continuous cycles, similar to that of Pt/C catalyst (15 mV).

#### 2.4. Theoretical Calculations

To unveil the underlying mechanism of the superior catalytic performance of the FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> catalyst, density functional theory calculations were performed. Given that no Fe-Ru path in EXAFS was found, three possible models of Fe and Pt co-embedding in graphene were constructed. As shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information), the model in Figure S16a (Supporting Information) is more thermodynamically stable than the other models in Figure S16b,c (Supporting Information), which was selected for the subsequent simulations. Especially, the distance between Fe and Pt (ca. 5.3 c) in the selected model is close to the distance between two metal centers ( $d_{\text{Fe-Cu}}$ ), 5.0 c) in the HCOs systems<sup>[10]</sup> revealing the rationality of the selected model. In general, a pertinent catalysis site should possess appropriate binding energy to the reaction intermediates, which is neither too strong nor too weak.<sup>[24]</sup> Thus, we further explored the electronic structure of the metal centers. As shown in Figure 4a,b (Supporting Information) a decreased electron density for Fe in FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> compared with FeN<sub>4</sub>, revealing weaker absorption of ORR intermediates on the former site. The d-band center is also a good indicator for the binding strength between the metal center and reactants, [25] the partial density of states (pDOS) of Fe is shown in Figure 4a. FeN<sub>4</sub>/ RuN<sub>4</sub> exhibits a lower d-band center in comparison with FeN<sub>4</sub>, indicating the weakened absorption energy of ORR intermediates, consistent with the charge density differences analysis results. As known, FeN4 located on the left leg of the volcano plot, indicating that the overly strong Fe-O binding strength **www.advancedsciencenews.com**

16136829, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202205283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** a) charge density difference for RuN4 and FeN4/RuN4. b) Computed projected density of states (d orbitals of Fe) of FeN4/RuN4 and FeN4. c) Proposed ORR mechanism on FeN4/RuN4. d) Gibbs free energy diagrams at 1.23 V on FeN4/RuN4 and FeN4.

restricted its ORR activity.[26] Thus, the adjacent RuN4 moiety would serve as a modulator to tailor the energy level of the FeN4 sites and boost their catalytic activities. To verify our assertion, we calculated Gibbs free energy profiles for ORR elementary steps on FeN4 and FeN4/RuN4, as depicted in Figures 4c,d. The Gibbs free energy profiles display that the extremely strong absorption of oxygen species on pristine FeN4 prohibits the last protonation process of \*OH (rate determining step, RDS), thus leading to poor ORR activity, whereas the decreased adsorption energy of OH\* results in an easier desorption step on the FeN4/ RuN4 site. Moreover, the FeN4/RuN4 exhibits much lower overpotential than the FeN4 system, suggesting its superior ORR properties than pristine FeN4 catalyst. These results confirm that the adjacent RuN4 moieties will act as modifiers to weaken the FeO bonding strength on FeN4 sites and ultimately lead to higher oxygen reduction performance.

#### **2.5. Metal–Air Batteries Performance**

Regarding with the superior electrocatalytic performance of FeN4/RuN4 toward ORR, FeN4/RuN4 catalyst was further employed as the cathode catalyst in Zn–air battery (ZAB). The Pt/C-based Zn–air batteries are also assembled under the same conditions for comparison. As anticipated, it shows a high and stable open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.56 V, approximating the theoretical value of 1.65 V (**Figure 5**a). The charge/discharge polarization curves (Figure 5b) present a narrowed charge/ discharge potential gap on the FeN4/RuN4 battery compared with that of Pt/C, suggesting the mitigated electrochemical polarization and the improved rechargeability of the Zn–air battery. These ZABs delivered a preeminent peak power density of 219.5 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> at the current density of 313.1 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure 5c), much higher than those of ZAB-Pt/C (208.8 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2) and that of a great many ZABs using liquid electrolytes. Moreover, it also displays a high specific capacity of 923.36 mAh gZn<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 5 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which is higher than that of the commercial Pt/C-based battery (685.95 mAh gZn<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , Figure 5d), indicating the superior activity of FeN4/RuN4. The galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles were measured at different current densities (5 and 15 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ) to evaluate the rechargeability and cycling stability of ZABs (Figure 5e; Figure S17, Supporting Information). Especially, the voltage gaps between charge and discharge remain nearly unchanged after cycling at 5 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for 2350 h, while the obviously voltage gap increases are observed for Pt/C (<750 h). The above results unambiguously

16136289, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20225283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.small-journal.com

Figure 5. a) Initial open-circuit potential of Zn–air batteries using the catalyst of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and commercial Pt/C (inset: a photograph of a home-made Zn–air batteries). b) Polarization curves and corresponding power density plots of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and commercial Pt/C. c) The charge–discharge curves. d) The discharge data measured at j = 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. e) Galvanostatic discharge–charge cycle profiles of the liquid Zn–air batteries based on FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and Pt–C catalysts at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (the discharge depth: 2.5 mAh cm<sup>-2</sup>). f) Initial open-circuit potential of flexible solid-state Zn–air batteries using the catalyst of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and commercial Pt/C (Inset: a photograph of a home-made flexible solid-state Zn–air batteries). g) Polarization curves and corresponding power density plots of FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and commercial Pt/C. h) Galvanostatic discharge–charge cycle profiles of the flexible solid-state Zn–air batteries based on FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> and Pt–C catalysts at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (the discharge depth: 1 mAh cm<sup>-2</sup>). i) Cycling performance of the battery with a FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> cathode at different bending angles at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

reveal the excellent activity and durability of  $FeN_4/RuN_4$  as cathodic catalyst in aqueous zinc–air battery.

Driven by the increasing demand on flexible and portable electronic devices, a flexible solid-state Zn-air battery was further fabricated with a zinc foil anode, KOH-poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) electrolyte, and a carbon cloth supported FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> cathode. The battery exhibits a high OCV of 1.487 V (Figure 5f), higher than most flexible solid-state ZABs fabricated with PVA gel and comparable to the value achieved in the aqueous system. Moreover, this flexible ZAB based on FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>, as a cathode, can power a red-light-emitting diode (LED) screen with excellent stability (Figure 5f, inset). The fabricated flexible battery also exhibits high peak power density of 121.2 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is much higher than that ZAB-Pt/C (79.2 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 5g). Furthermore, the battery durability of the FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub>-ZABs was evaluated by galvanostatic charge/discharge cycling at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 5h). Negligible

performance loss can be observed after 16 h. By contrast, the commercial Pt/C-ZAB suffers from severe voltage decay, with an obvious increase of 0.8 V in the voltage gap after 7 h of operation. Notably, the battery is also capable of maintaining a constant charging (1.86 V) and discharging (1.20 V) platforms at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  after bending at different bending angles (Figure 5i), demonstrating the considerable flexibility.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, we implanted Ru–N moieties in the Fe–N–C system to construct adjacent metal centers to tune the electronic localization of Fe–N<sub>4</sub>. The obtained FeN<sub>4</sub>/RuN<sub>4</sub> catalyst manifests high ORR catalytic activity ( $E_{1/2} = 0.958$  V) in the alkaline electrolyte, far surpassing FeN<sub>4</sub> (0.87 V) and RuN<sub>4</sub> (0.8 V) with isolated Fe or Ru sites. The combined physical characterizations

**www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202205283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

and theoretical calculations reveal that that the adjacent atomically dispersed Ru–N moieties can reduce the d-band electronic energy of Fe center to weaken the FeO binding affinity, thus leading to the weaken adsorption of oxygen intermediates (OH\*) on the FeN4 site and an ultimately higher oxygen reduction activity. As practical applications, FeN4/RuN4 was successfully incorporated as an effective air cathode for a rechargeable aqueous/flexible ZAB. Remarkably, the aqueous ZAB shows a maximal power density of 219.5 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and outstanding cycling stability for over 2350 h at 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , and over 1000 h under harsh conditions of 15 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . Our study not only provides a new strategy to tailor the electronic structure of single atom catalysts but also highlights the fundamental understanding on the synergetic effect of bimetallic or even multimetallic atoms toward boosted catalytic behaviors for ORR and beyond.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

Z.L. and X.L. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22109100, 21671136, 22075203), Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2020A1515010379,2 022A1515011677), Shenzhen Science and Technology Project Program (JCYJ20190808144413257, JCYJ20210324094204012), Natural Science Foundation of SZU (000002111605), and thanks to Chuan Shi and Wei Zhang for their technical guidances in samples characterization. The authors also want to acknowledge Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), Canada Research Chair (CRC) Program, Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI), Canadian Urban Transit Research and Innovation Consortium (CUTRIC) project, Ballard Power Systems Inc and the University of Western Ontario.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

Data sharing is not applicable to this article as no new data were created or analyzed in this study.

## **Keywords**

d-band electronic energy, M/N/C catalysts, metal–air batteries, nonbonding single-atom pairs, oxygen reduction

> Received: September 22, 2022 Revised: November 28, 2022 Published online: December 29, 2022

- [1] Z. Lu, B. Wang, Y. Hu, W. Liu, Y. Zhao, R. Yang, Z. Li, J. Luo, B. Chi, Z. Jiang, M. Li, S. Mu, S. Liao, J. Zhang, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 2622.
- [2] a) H. Adabi, A. Shakouri, N. Ul Hassan, J. R. Varcoe, B. Zulevi, A. Serov, J. R. Regalbuto, W. E. Mustain, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 834; b) H. Zhang, H. T. Chung, D. A. Cullen, S. Wagner, U. I. Kramm, K. L. More, P. Zelenay, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 2548.
- [3] a) Q. Chang, P. Zhang, A. H. B. Mostaghimi, X. Zhao, S. R. Denny, J. H. Lee, H. Gao, Y. Zhang, H. L. Xin, S. Siahrostami, J. G. Chen, Z. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2178; b) H. Li, P. Wen, D. S. Itanze, Z. D. Hood, S. Adhikari, C. Lu, X. Ma, C. Dun, L. Jiang, D. L. Carroll, Y. Qiu, S. M. Geyer, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 3928; c) X. Yang, Y. Zeng, W. Alnoush, Y. Hou, D. Higgins, G. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107954.
- [4] a) J. Li, H.-M. Yin, X.-B. Li, E. Okunishi, Y.-L. Shen, J. He, Z.-K. Tang, W.-X. Wang, E. Yücelen, C. Li, Y. Gong, L. Gu, S. Miao, L.-M. Liu, J. Luo, Y. Ding, *Nat. Energy* **2017**, *2*, 17111; b) L. Gao, X. Li, Z. Yao, H. Bai, Y. Lu, C. Ma, S. Lu, Z. Peng, J. Yang, A. Pan, H. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 18083.
- [5] a) Y. Lian, W. Yang, C. Zhang, H. Sun, Z. Deng, W. Xu, L. Song, Z. Ouyang, Z. Wang, J. Guo, Y. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 286; b) Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254.
- [6] G. Chen, P. Liu, Z. Liao, F. Sun, Y. He, H. Zhong, T. Zhang, E. Zschech, M. Chen, G. Wu, J. Zhang, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1907399.
- [7] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, W. Liang, M.-T. Sougrati, F. Jaouen, B. Halevi, S. McKinney, G. McCool, C. Ma, X. Yuan, Z.-F. Ma, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 2418.
- [8] a) L. Gong, H. Zhang, Y. Wang, E. Luo, K. Li, L. Gao, Y. Wang, Z. Wu, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 13923; b) M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763.
- [9] a) S. H. Yin, J. Yang, Y. Han, G. Li, L. Y. Wan, Y. H. Chen, C. Chen, X. M. Qu, Y. X. Jiang, S. G. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 21976; b) J. Chen, H. Li, C. Fan, Q. Meng, Y. Tang, X. Qiu, G. Fu, T. Ma, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003134.
- [10] A. Han, X. Wang, K. Tang, Z. Zhang, C. Ye, K. Kong, H. Hu, L. Zheng, P. Jiang, C. Zhao, Q. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19262.
- [11] M. Xiao, L. Gao, Y. Wang, X. Wang, J. Zhu, Z. Jin, C. Liu, H. Chen, G. Li, J. Ge, Q. He, Z. Wu, Z. Chen, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 19800.
- [12] M. Xiao, J. Zhu, L. Ma, Z. Jin, J. Ge, X. Deng, Y. Hou, Q. He, J. Li, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, R. Yang, Z. Jiang, D. Su, C. Liu, W. Xing, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 2824.
- [13] P. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, G. Zhou, S. Wei, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 10800.
- [14] a) J. Li, H. Zhang, W. Samarakoon, W. Shan, D. A. Cullen, S. Karakalos, M. Chen, D. Gu, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Feng, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 18971; b) M. Gorlin, J. Ferreira de Araujo, H. Schmies, D. Bernsmeier, S. Dresp, M. Gliech, Z. Jusys, P. Chernev, R. Kraehnert, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 2070.
- [15] S. Li, C. Cheng, X. Zhao, J. Schmidt, A. Thomas, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 1856.
- [16] L. Jiao, J. Li, L. L. Richard, Q. Sun, T. Stracensky, E. Liu, M. T. Sougrati, Z. Zhao, F. Yang, S. Zhong, H. Xu, S. Mukerjee, Y. Huang, D. A. Cullen, J. H. Park, M. Ferrandon, D. J. Myers, F. Jaouen, Q. Jia, *Nat. Mater.* **2021**, *20*, 1385.
- [17] D. Malko, A. Kucernak, T. Lopes, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 16056.
- [18] B.-C. Hu, Z.-Y. Wu, S.-Q. Chu, H.-W. Zhu, H.-W. Liang, J. Zhang, S.-H. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2208.

16136829, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202205283 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

- [19] a) S. Zhou, X. Miao, X. Zhao, C. Ma, Y. Qiu, Z. Hu, J. Zhao, L. Shi, J. Zeng, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 11510; b) W. Ren, X. Tan, C. Jia, A. Krammer, Q. Sun, J. Qu, S. C. Smith, A. Schueler, X. Hu, C. Zhao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202203335.
- [20] G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B. A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J. N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734.
- [21] a) N. Ashburn, Y. Zheng, S. Thampy, S. Dillon, Y. J. Chabal, J. W. P. Hsu, K. Cho, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *30460*, 30460; b) Y. Zheng, S. Thampy, N. Ashburn, S. Dillon, L. Wang, Y. Jangjou, K. Tan, F. Kong, Y. Nie, M. J. Kim, W. S. Epling, Y. J. Chabal, J. W. P. Hsu, K. Cho, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *10722*, 10722.
- [22] a) H. Shang, X. Zhou, J. Dong, A. Li, X. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Lin, J. Pei, Z. Li, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, Z. Yang, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, T. Sun, X. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, J. Li, W. Chen, D. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 3049;

- b) Y. Chen, S. Ji, S. Zhao, W. Chen, J. Dong, W. C. Cheong, R. Shen, X. Wen, L. Zheng, A. I. Rykov, S. Cai, H. Tang, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 5422.
- [23] C. Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z. Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. Hou, F. Q. Bai, H. X. Zhang, T. Y. Ma, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1602420.
- [24] a) M. Xiao, J. Zhu, G. Li, N. Li, S. Li, Z. P. Cano, L. Ma, P. Cui, P. Xu, G. Jiang, H. Jin, S. Wang, T. Wu, J. Lu, A. Yu, D. Su, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 9640; b) Y. M. Zhao, X. W. Wang, G. Z. Cheng, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11751.
- [25] Z. Wang, X. Jin, C. Zhu, Y. Liu, H. Tan, R. Ku, Y. Zhang, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, S. J. Hwang, H. J. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2104718.
- [26] a) L. Yang, X. Zhang, L. Yu, J. Hou, Z. Zhou, R. Lv, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2105410; b) Z. Zhang, X. Zhao, S. Xi, L. Zhang, Z. Chen, Z. Zeng, M. Huang, H. Yang, B. Liu, S. J. Pennycook, P. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2002896; c) J. Fu, F. M. Hassan, C. Zhong, J. Lu, H. Liu, A. Yu, Z. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, 29.