---
source: Lv 等 - 2024 - Precisely Engineering Asymmetric Atomic CoN4 by Electron Donating and Extracting for Oxyg.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 31.023s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:40:25.853365Z
---

# **Forschungsartikel**

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **2024**, 63, e202315802 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202315802

# Precisely Engineering Asymmetric Atomic CoN<sub>4</sub> by Electron Donating and Extracting for Oxygen Reduction Reaction

Minghui Lv<sup>+</sup>, Cheng-Xing Cui<sup>+</sup>, Niu Huang,\* Mingzhu Wu, Qiao Wang, Tao Gao, Yong Zheng, Hui Li, Wei Liu, Yingping Huang, Tianyi Ma,\* and Liqun Ye\*

**Abstract:** The development of nonpyrolytic catalysts featuring precisely defined active sites represents an effective strategy for investigating the fundamental relationship between the catalytic activity of oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalysts and their local coordination environments. In this study, we have synthesized a series of model electrocatalysts with welldefined CoN<sub>4</sub> centers and nonplanar symmetric coordination structures. These catalysts were prepared by a sequential process involving the chelation of cobalt salts and 1,10-phenanthroline-based ligands with various substituent groups (phen(X), where X=OH, CH3, H, Br, Cl) onto covalent triazine frameworks (CTFs). By modulating the electron-donating or electron-withdrawing properties of the substituent groups on the phenbased ligands, the electron density surrounding the CoN<sub>4</sub> centers was effectively controlled. Our results demonstrated a direct correlation between the catalytic activity of the CoN<sub>4</sub> centers and the electron-donating ability of the substituent group on the phenanthroline ligands. Notably, the catalyst denoted as BCTF-Cophen(OH), featuring the electron-donating OH group, exhibited the highest ORR catalytic activity. This custom-crafted catalyst achieved a remarkable half-wave potential of up to 0.80 V vs. RHE and an impressive turnover frequency (TOF) value of  $47.4 \times 10^{-3}$  Hz at 0.80 V vs. RHE in an alkaline environment.

#### Introduction

The oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), a crucial cathode half-reaction in future essential energy devices like fuel cells

and metal-air batteries, faces significant challenges due to the sluggish reaction kinetics and pronounced polarization.<sup>[1]</sup> While precious metal platinum-based catalysts stand as the gold standard for achieving high-performance in ORR catalysts, their widespread adoption is severely impeded by their exorbitant cost, limited availability, and inherent stability issues. [2] Currently, transition metal nitrogen-doped carbon (M-N-C) materials, featuring MN<sub>4</sub> coordination structure as the primary active center, are considered as the most competitive alternative to noble metal-based catalysts. This is attributed to their intrinsic features of superior catalytic activity, maximum utilization efficiency of metal atoms, and exceptional selectivity.[3] Traditionally, the formation of MN<sub>4</sub> sites involves high-temperature pyrolysis of transition metal-containing precursors within an inert atmosphere. However, this complex pyrolysis process poses challenges in achieving uniform coordination environments for every metal atom. The resulting uncertain local coordination environments can give rise to sparse and controversial active centers.<sup>[4]</sup> Therefore, the development of singleatom catalysts (SACs) with well-defined MN<sub>4</sub> sites and adjustable local coordination configurations through using nonpyrolytic methods is pivotal in advancing ORR and promoting future energy development.

Crystalline covalent triazine frameworks (CTFs) are aromatic polymer structures rich in nitrogen, characterized by the presence of triazine rings, which are a subset of covalent organic frameworks (COFs).<sup>[5]</sup> The precisely defined structural units, uniform porous structure, and remarkable stability<sup>[6]</sup> make CTFs highly promising as versatile platforms for customizing ORR electrocatalysts. Moreover, the abundant nitrogen species within CTFs offer ideal binding sites for metal atoms, enabling the creation of well-defined and densely-packed MN<sub>x</sub> sites essential for catalytic reactions.<sup>[7]</sup> Currently, numerous studies focus on creating

[\*] M. Lv,\* Dr. N. Huang, M. Wu, Q. Wang, T. Gao, Dr. Y. Zheng, Dr. W. Liu, Prof. Y. Huang, Prof. L. Ye College of Materials and Chemical Engineering, Key Laboratory of Inorganic Nonmetallic Crystalline and Energy Conversion Materials, China Three Gorges University, Yichang 443002, China E-mail: huangliu.ysxf@163.com

lqye@ctgu.edu.cn

C-X Cui+

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Institute of Computational Chemistry.

Henan Institute of Science and Technology, Xinxiang, 453003, China

H. Li, Prof. T. Ma School of Science, RMIT University, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia E-mail: tianyi.ma@rmit.edu.au

- [+] These authors contributed equally to this work.
- © 2024 The Authors. Angewandte Chemie published by Wiley-VCH GmbH by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial NoDerivs License, which permits use and distribution in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, the use is noncommercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.

MN4 sites within COFs or covalent organic polymers (COPs) for ORR.[8] And these investigations commonly employ organic network structures derived from metalporphyrin or metal-phthalocyanine structural units to generate planar and symmetric MN4 sites. The use of specific porphyrin or phthalocyanine units constrains the diversity of such catalysts in development. Furthermore, the symmetric electron distribution of the MN4 site, accompanied by a symmetric planar structure, has been reported to be hinder the activation and adsorption processes of ORR-related substances. This limitation consequently impacts the kinetics and performance of ORR.[9]

The incorporation of electronegative heteroatoms into the substrate material has proven to be an effective strategy for tuning the charge distribution and local coordination environment.[10] For instance, Xiang and co-workers[11] presented a range of COP-based catalysts, in which FeN4<sup>+</sup><sup>1</sup> active centers were created by attaching pyridine-based axial groups with different electron-withdrawing or -donating properties to the FeN4 centers in the COP network. These axial groups disrupted the symmetry of charge distribution on the FeN4 sites, leading to the rearrangement of the local coordination environment and electron cloud density surrounding iron atoms, ultimately influencing the ORR activity of the catalysts. However, the complex sample preparation process and unverified electrocatalytic stability pose challenges to the practical application of these catalysts. Therefore, the development of robust MN4 sites featuring asymmetric structures and adjusted electron cloud densities through simplified approaches holds promise for enhancing the performance of non-pyrolytic catalysts and advancing their commercial viability.

In this study, we prepared two CTFs (BCTF and TCTF) as platforms for electrocatalytic applications. Through a straightforward solvothermal step, we initiated the formation of CoN2 precursor site constructed by chelating cobalt ions at the bipyridine units in the CTFs. Subsequently, we introduced 1,10-phenanthroline-based ligands (phen(X)), where X represented various substituent groups (X=OH, CH3, H, Br, Cl) with varying degrees of electron-withdrawing or -donating properties coordinating to the Co atoms. This innovative approach resulted the creation of CoN4 sites characterized by asymmetric structures and modified charge distributions. Spherical aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and X-ray absorption fine spectroscopy (XAFS) demonstrated the successful preparation of monatomic CoN4 sites in BCTF Co-phen- (OH). Analysis conducted through X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveals that within BCTF Co-phen(X), electron-donating substituent groups have the capability to redistribute their own electrons around the Co atoms, augmenting the electron cloud density of the CoN4 site. Conversely, electron-withdrawing substituent groups exert the opposite effect. The results of rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) tests showed that the ORR activity and selectivity of B/TCTF Co-phen(X) were inversely proportional to the electron-pulling of the substituent groups, in which BCTF Co-phen(OH) modified by OH groups possessed the optimal ORR catalytic activity with the ORR initial and half-wave potentials (*E*<sup>0</sup> and *E*1/2) of 0.89 and 0.80 V vs. RHE and the limiting current density (*J*L) of 5.96 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . When it was used as a cathode for zinc-air batteries (ZABs), BCTF Co-phen(OH)-based ZABs exhibited a high peak power density of 210.5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> . The present study provides a novel approach for constructing novel asymmetric CoN4 sites, simultaneously presenting a fresh perspective for advancing the utilization of CTFs (or porous organic polymers, POPs) as electrocatalytic loading platform.

## *Results and Discussion*

As shown in Figure 1a, BCTF was firstly prepared by using the monomers [2,2'-bipyridyl]-5,5'-diylmethanol and biphenyl-4,4'-dicarboxamidine according to the reported Cs2CO3 catalyzing method,[12] and its material characterization results are shown in Figure S1–S5. The intrinsic pyridinyl groups of BCTF provides ligands for chelating Co atoms to construct CoN2 sites. Subsequently, BCTF Co was thus obtained via a simple coordination reaction, and its structure and morphology are shown in Figure S6–S10. Ultimately, phen(X) were separately introduced and chelated onto Co atoms in BCTF Co, thereby obtaining a range of BCTF Co-phen(X) target products with cleverly and precisely constructed CoN4 sites. In addition, unlike conventional M N C materials, this pyrolysis-free preparation method simplifies the processing and clearly reveals the active site configuration of the materials. From the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure S11 and Figure 1b**-c**), it can be seen that the BCTF Co-phen(OH) basically maintains the morphological characteristics of BCTF (Figure S2) and BCTF Co (Figure S6). However, the crystallinity of BCTF Co and BCTF Co-phen(OH) was reduced compared to that of BCTF, according to powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) results (Figure S1 and Figure S10). This is due to the fact that Co ions and small molecule ligands mask the pores in BCTF when modified to the skeleton, thus affecting BCTF periodic structure. This is also evidenced by the sequentially reduced specific surface areas (SSA) and pore volumes of BCTF, BCTF Co and BCTF Co-phen(OH) (Figure S3, S7, and S12, Table S1). The unique and huge SSA as well as the rich and balanced pore distribution of BCTF enable the successful modification of transition metal ions and small molecule ligands, and the CoN4 sites thus constructed can be fully exposed. As revealed by HAADF-STEM images (Figure 1d), bright spots are uniformly distributed in BCTF Co-phen(OH), meaning Co element is formed as dispersed single atoms without any Co metal particles and clusters. The TEM image energy dispersive spectra (Figure 1e–i) showed the uniform distribution of elements (C, N, O and Co) in BCTF Co-phen (OH).

BCTF Co-phen(OH) and its counterpart were examined using Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy and XPS. As shown in Figure 2a, the characteristic vibrations at

*Figure 1.* (a) Schematic representation of the synthesis of BCTF, BCTF Co and a range of BCTF Co-phen(X). (b),(c) TEM images and (d) HAADF-STEM image of BCTF Co-phen(OH). (e)–(i) TEM image of BCTF Co-phen(OH) and corresponding elemental mapping.

1501 cm <sup>1</sup> and 1350 cm <sup>1</sup> were observed, indicating the successful formation of the triazine skeleton of BCTF.[12b] Moreover, BCTF Co and BCTF Co-phen(OH) basically retain the framework structure of BCTF. The Co N characteristic vibrational peaks of BCTF Co and BCTF Co-phen(OH) appearing near 1030 cm <sup>1</sup> and 1060 cm <sup>1</sup> prove the successful coordination of Co ions with N species.[7b,13] And the C O(H) stretching vibrational peaks in BCTF Co-phen(OH) and phen(OH) located near 1270 cm <sup>1</sup> proved that phen(OH) was successfully modified on BCTF Co.[14] FT-IR spectra of other BCTF Co-phen(X) catalysts are displayed in Figure S13. The XPS total spectrum of BCTF Co-phen(OH) is shown in Figure S14, where presenting of elements of C, N, O, and Co. From the C 1s XPS spectra of BCTF Co-phen(OH) (Figure S15), the peaks at 284.6, 285.8, 286.8, and 288.6 eV are attributed to C C/C=C, C N, C=N, and C=O, respectively.[8a,15] The N 1s XPS spectra are shown in Figure 2b, and the peak at 398.8 and 400.3 eV correspond to C=N and CN in the BCTF framework.[12b,16] The peaks appearing at 399.7 eV for BCTF Co and BCTF Co-phen(OH) correspond to Co N,[8a,17] which suggests that Co ions were successfully trapped by the N species in the BCTF backbone. The successful modification of the phen(OH) ligand resulted in the conversion of CoN2 coordination in BCTF Co to CoN4 coordination in BCTF Co-phen(OH), therefore, the Co N content in BCTF Co-phen(OH) was significantly enhanced compared with that of BCTF Co. The O 1s XPS spectra are shown in Figure 2c, where the peak appearing at 532.8 eV is attributed to C OH,[18] which correspond to the O 1s XPS spectra of phen(OH), thus confirming that phen(OH) has been successfully modified on the BCTF Co. The Co 2p XPS spectra are shown in Figure 2d, and the peaks appearing at 780.1, 781.2, and 785.2 eV for CTF Co are attributed to the peaks of Co O, Co N and satellite Co, respectively.[19] The Co O species is derived from cobalt acetate. The almost 1:1 area ratio of the Co O and Co N peaks suggests that there is an equal amount of Co N and Co O bonding in BCTF Co corresponding to the CoN2O2 structure (as shown in Figure 1a), in agreement with the Co

*Figure 2.* (a) FT-IR spectra of the BCTF, BCTF Co, BCTF Co-phen(OH) and phen(OH). High-resolution XPS spectra of (b) N 1s, (c) O 1s, and (d) Co 2p of BCTF Co-phen(OH) and control samples, (e) High-resolution XPS spectra of Co 2p of a series of BCTF Co-phen(X). (f) The optimized geometrical structures and the electron density surfaces combined with electrostatic potential regions for BCTF Co-phen(X)-SC calculated at the cam-B3LYP/6-31G(d,p)-SDD level of theory. The red, green, and blue regions indicate negative, neutral, and positive electrostatic potentials, respectively.

k-edge EXAFS results discussed below. For BCTF Cophen(OH), the peaks appearing at 780.1, 781.2 and 785.4 eV are assigned to the peaks of Co O, Co N and satellite Co, respectively. Unlike BCTF Co, the area of the Co O peak in BCTF Co-phen(OH) is significantly smaller than that of the Co N peak, which is originated from the modification of the phen(OH), substituting acetic acid group to form CoN4 sites around the Co atoms. The XPS total spectra of other BCTF Co-phen(X) catalysts are displayed in Figure S16–19. Cl 2p appearing in BCTF Co-phen(Cl) XPS total spectrum and Br 3d appearing in BCTF Co-phen(Br) XPS spectrum indicate the successful decoration of phen-based ligands.[11] FT-IR and XPS results collectively confirmed that phenbased ligands with different substituent groups were successfully modified on BCTF Co, while essentially maintaining the BCTF framework structure. Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy analyzer (ICP-OES, Table S2) determined the Co content in BCTF Co-phen(X) is around 2.29–0.99 wt%.

Figure S20 and Figure 2e show the Co 2p XPS spectra of the series of BCTF Co-phen(X). Notably, we observe that the Co N peaks of BCTF Co-phen(CH3) and BCTF Cophen(OH) are shifted to lower binding energy by 0.10– 0.3 eV relative to BCTF Co-phen(H), and whose binding energy of BCTF Co-phen(Br) and BCTF Co-phen(Cl) are shifted to higher energy levels by 0.1–0.30 eV. Indeed, the shift in binding energy can be attributed to the change of electron pulling/pushing ability of the substituent groups. Due to the strong electron donating of CH3 and OH, more electrons can be transferred from phen-based ligands to Co centers, thus enriching the electron cloud density around the CoN4 species. Similarly, the stronger electron-withdrawing ability of Br and Cl attracts electrons back from Co centers, thereby reducing the electron cloud density around the CoN4 sites. Hence, the binding energies of the Co N peaks in BCTF Co-phen(Cl), BCTF Co-phen(Br), BCTF Cophen(H), BCTF Co-phen(CH3), and BCTF Co-phen(OH) exhibit a sequential decrease in response to the increasing electron-pushing ability of the substituent groups, as illus-

*Angewandte*

trated in Figure 2f. This trend will be elaborated upon in detail in the subsequent DFT section.

The coordination environment of Co element in BCTF Co-phen(OH) and control samples were probed by using the K-edge XANES of Co. As shown in Figure 3a, the absorption edges of BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co are very close to each other, indicating that the valence states of Co are similar in these two samples. In order to further determine the valence state of Co in BCTF Cophen(OH), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) tests were performed. Figure 3b shows that BCTF Co-phen(OH) displays a strong paramagnetic Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> signal at *g*=2.35, suggestting the valence state of Co in BCTF Co-phen(OH) is +2.[20] The Fourier variation of the Co k-edge EXAFS is shown in Figure 3c, the main peaks appearing at ~1.41 Å and ~1.50 Å for BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co correspond to the Co N or Co O path. And the main peak corresponding to the Co Co path does not appear at 2.20 Å, which indicates that BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co do not contain detectable Co clusters, consistent with the HAADF-STEM results. Compared to BCTF Co, the Co kedge EXAFS Fourier transform curve of BCTF Co-phen- (OH) is more similar to that of CoPc, which suggests that the coordination numbers of Co N in BCTF Co-phen(OH) and CoPc are closer to each other. As expected, the coordination number of N around a single Co atom in BCTF Co-phen(OH) is close to 4 for a CoN4 conformation as derived by EXAFS fitting (Figure 3d, Figure S21–22 and Table S3). In contrast, the coordination numbers of both N and O around a single Co atom in BCTF Co are close to 2 for the CoN2O2 configuration. The wavelet transform (WT) contour plots of BCTF Co-phen(OH) and its comparing samples are shown in Figure 3e–h. The signal intensity maximum of BCTF Co-phen(OH) occurs at about ~5.1 Å <sup>1</sup> in the k-space, which is similar to that of CoPc (~4.7 Å <sup>1</sup> ), and it can be assumed that this is the Co N coordination. The significant difference in the contour profiles of the BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co WT contour profile shows that the coordination environment around the Co atom in BCTF Co-phen(OH) is changed compared to that of BCTF Co, providing strong evidence that phen(OH) was successfully modified on BCTF Co. In summary, welldefined asymmetric CoN4 catalytic centers were successfully constructed by successively introducing Co ions and smallmolecule ligands on the CTFs catalytic platform via a twostep approach.

The ORR catalytic activity and 4-electron (4e ) selectivity of the series of BCTF Co-phen(X) and control samples were investigated using the RRDE apparatus in O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. As shown in Figure 4a and Figure S23a, BCTF Co-phen(CH3) and BCTF Co-phen- (OH) with electron-donating substituent groups (CH3 and OH) exhibited more positive ORR potentials compared to BCTF Co-phen(H). In contrast, BCTF Co-phen(Br) and BCTF Co-phen(Cl) modified by electron-withdrawing substituent groups (Br, Cl) showed inferior catalytic activities. As recorded in Table S4, The ORR activity of BCTF Cophen(X) is to positive correlated with the electron-pushing

*Figure 3.* (a) Co K-edge XANES. (b) EPR spectra for BCTF Co-phen(OH). (c) Fourier transforms Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra of BCTF Co, BCTF Cophen(X) and reference samples (Co foil, CoPc). (d) FT-EXAFS R-space fitting curve of BCTF Co-phen(OH) with a structural model of CoN4 inserted. (e)-(h) Wavelet transform (WT) of Co foil, CoPc, BCTF Co and BCTF Co-phen(X).

*Figure 4.* (a) LSV curves, (b) Tafel plots, (c) H2O2 yield and number of transfer electrons (n), (d) EIS and (e) The turnover frequency (TOF) and mass activity (*J*Co) at 0.80 V vs. RHE of a range of BCTF Co-phen(X). (f) Comparison of the alkaline ORR performance between BCTF Cophen(OH) and other pyrolysis-free catalysts in literature.

ability of its substituent groups. Among all the samples, BCTF Co-phen(OH) modified by OH substituent group exhibits the best ORR catalytic performance, where *E*<sup>0</sup> and *E*1/2 are of 0.89 and 0.80 V vs. RHE, respectively, and *J*<sup>L</sup> up to 5.96 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Figure 4b shows the Tafel curves of the five catalysts, and as expected, the Tafel slopes of BCTF Co-phen(X) with Cl, Br, H, CH3, and OH substituent groups decreased sequentially. Moreover, BCTF Cophen(OH) exhibited the lowest Tafel slope of 60.3 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , indicating the best kinetics of oxygen adsorption/activation. Summarizing the above and combining with the XPS results (Figure 2e), we can infer that the electron-donating substituent groups in BCTF Co-phen(X) can push their own electrons around the Co atoms, which enhances the density of the electron cloud at the CoN4 site and thus optimizes its catalytic activity.

Next, we calculated the H2O2-yield and electron transfer number (*n*) of all catalysts. As shown in Figure 4c, BCTF Co-phen(OH) displays excellent 4e selective activity, with its H2O2 yield below 5% and number of transferred electrons greater than 3.90 over the 0.3–0.7 V vs. RHE potential range. In addition, the ORR polarization curves of BCTF Co-phen(OH) were recorded under different disk electrode rotation speed, and then the *K-L* equation was applied to calculate *n.* As shown in Figure S24a–b, the *K-L* plots for BCTF Co-phen(OH) are linear and nearly parallel, indicating that *n* is nearly the same at different potentials. *n* is of 4.01 for BCTF Co-phen(OH) at 0.5 V vs. RHE, suggesting O2 is almost completely reduced to OH via a 4e pathway. In contrast, the electron-withdrawing substituent group modified BCTF Co-phen(Cl) has a significantly lower 4e selectivity, with the H2O2 yield up to 13.8% and *n* as low as 3.72 in the 0.3–0.7 V vs. RHE potential range. The other catalysts with the substituent groups, whose electron-donating/withdrawing ability is between OH and Cl, naturally have middle *n* and H2O2 yields between BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co-phen(Cl). The above results indicate that the substituent groups around the CoN4 site modulates the ORR catalytic activity of the active center while also increasing its 4e selectivity. In addition, as shown in Figure S23b, BCTF without Co atom and BCTF Co with CoN2 site respectively exhibit ~30% and ~20% H2O2 yields in the 0.3–0.7 V vs. RHE potential range, which are significantly larger than those of BCTF Co-phen(X) having phen-based ligands with CoN4. These results suggest CoN4 configuration here is superior to

CoN2 and significantly better than non-metal center site, and the remodulation of the electron cloud density around CoN4 by the substituent groups further enhances the 4e -ORR performance. Additionally, the electron realignment around the CoN4 site (actualizing via adjusting the electron-donating/withdrawing ability of the substituent groups on the CoN4 surrounding carbocyclic rings) was reflected by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analysis. As shown in Figure 4d, BCTF Co-phen(OH) exhibits the lowest charge transfer resistance (*R*ct), and the catalysts (BCTF Co-phen(X)) are ranked from smallest to largest *R*ct related to the electron-pulling ability of the X group. Reasonably, the strong electron-pushing (donating) OH group could greatly enrich the electron cloud density around CoN4 and thus accelerate the charge transfer in ORR, consistent with the DFT calculations below.

To further investigate the effect of the modification of the electron-pushing functional group of the ligands on the intrinsic activity of the CoN4 active center, we calculated the turnover frequency (TOF) and mass activity (*J*m) of these BCTF Co-phen(X) catalysts. As shown in Figure 4e, BCTF Co-phen(OH) exhibited an excellent TOF value of 48.7\*10 <sup>3</sup> Hz at 0.80 V vs. RHE, which is significantly higher than those of other catalysts with weaker electron-donating or electron-withdrawing substituent groups. In particular, the performance of BCTF Co-phen(OH) was enhanced by more than 8-fold compared with BCTF Co-phen(Cl). In addition, the mass activity of BCTF Co-phen(OH) was 1.5, 3.4, 8.0 and 8.4 times higher than those of BCTF Cophen(CH3), BCTF Co-phen(H), BCTF Co-phen(Br) and BCTF Co-phen(Cl), respectively. Moreover, the excellent catalytic activity of BCTF Co-phen(OH) is superior to most of the reported pyrolysis-free catalysts (Figure 4f and Table S5).[8a,21]

To gain deeper insights into the ORR performance of five BCTF-phen(X), we constructed saturated cluster models denoted as BCTF Co-phen(X)-SC. These models provided reliable geometrical, electronical, and thermodynamic information, making them valuable for studying COFs and similar systems.[22] The density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed for BCTF Co-phen(X)-SC using the CAM B3LYP functional with a mixed basis set of SDD for Co and 6-31G(d,p) for all other atoms. Additionally, standard SDD effective core potential parameters were used for the Co atom. All geometrical structures were optimized without any constraints, and frequency calculations were performed to confirm the presence of real minimum on the potential energy surfaces and to obtain the Gibbs free energies. It's worth noting that the current BCTF possesses a unique structure in which the phenanthroline unit and the main backbone structure are interconnected through four Co N coordination bonds, forming a nearly perpendicular arrangement.

The configurations of O2 adsorption on the catalyst's active sites significantly influence the control of the ORR pathway.[23] In Figure 2f, the electron density surfaces, when combined with electrostatic potential regions, reveal a conspicuous concentration of negative electrostatic potential regions surrounding the cobalt (Co) element within BCTF Co-phen(X)-SC. Notably, the electrostatic potential within BCTF Co-phen(OH) SC exceeds those of BCTF Co-phen(CH3)-SC, BCTF Co-phen(H)-SC, BCTF Co-phen(Br) SC, and BCTF Co-phen(Cl) SC. This suggests the possibility of a stronger interaction between BCTF Co-Phen(OH) SC and O2. Figure 5a–e present crucial parameters for the optimized geometrical structures in the adsorption state (O2\*), the charge distribution on Co, as well as the adsorption enthalpies and Gibbs free energies for the five BCTF Co-phen(X)-SC variants. The two potential adsorption manners depicted in Figure S25 converge into **Manner I**. Notably, the adsorption Gibbs free energies for BCTF Co-phen(OH)-SC, BCTF Co-phen(CH3) SC, and BCTF Co-phen(H) SC are all negative, indicating a thermodynamically favorable process. Particularly, the most substantial adsorption Gibbs free energy is observed for BCTF Co-phen(OH) SC ( 0.48 eV), which aligns with experimental observations. Figure 5f–j displays the total density of states (TDOSs) and partitional density of states (PDOSs) for various fragments within the five BCTF Cophen(X) catalysts involved in ORRs. These fragments include the activation center comprising Co and four N atoms (Fragment 1), O2 (Fragment 2), and the remaining part of O2\* (Fragment 3). Remarkably, the contribution characteristics of these three fragments remain consistent across both low and high-energy regions for all five BCTF Co-phen(X) variants. However, in the vicinity of the Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital (HOMO), the contributions of Fragment 1 and 3 to O2\* for BCTF Co-phen- (OH)-SC are nearly identical, suggesting that the presence of OH groups promotes favorable adsorption states. The distributions and energy levels of HOMOs and the Lowest Unoccupied Molecular Orbitals (LUMOs) are depicted in Figure 5k–o. These Figures reveal that the HOMOs predominantly localize within the π\* orbital near O2, while the LUMOs are dispersed over two pyridines and one triazine near the central Co atom. Notably, the O2\* state's HOMO– LUMO gap measures 4.933 eV for BCTF Co-phen(OH)- SC, the smallest among the five adsorption states. All the calculated results align with the experimental observations.

To investigate the electrochemical stability of CoN4 site, we evaluated the ORR stability of BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co by Chronoamperometry method. As shown in Figure S26, BCTF Co-phen(OH) maintained 96.5% of the initial current density after 7200 s spin test, exceeding BCTF Co with 86.7% current density retention. Moreover, the CV curves of BCTF Co-phen(OH) did not differ significantly from its initial cycle after 2000 CV tests at 0.3– 1.7 V vs. RHE (Figure S27). Notably, BCTF Co-phen(OH) also possesses excellent thermal stability. As shown in Figure S28, there are no obvious mass decay until 350 °C. Therefore, BCTF Co-phen(OH) was treated by heating in air at 300 °C for 2 h. It is found that the structure (Figure S29–S30) and ORR catalytic performance (Figure S31) both could remain basically the same as its initial. Significantly, three molecular catalysts were prepared by directly chelating Co(OAc)2 with phen(OH), as illustrated in Figure S32a. Figure S32b demonstrates that the Co-phen(OH)- 1: 2 catalyst exhibited significantly higher ORR catalytic

*Figure 5.* (a-e) The dominant parameters of optimized geometrical structures of the adsorption state (O2\*) of the five BCTF Co-phen(X); (f-j) The total density of states (TDOSs, black lines), partitional density of states (PDOSs) of the activation center including Co and four N atoms (Fragment 1, blue lines), O2 (Fragment 2, red lines), and remainder of O2\* (Fragment 3, green lines) for the five BCTF Co-phen(X) catalyzing ORRs; (k-o) The distribution and energies of HOMO and LUMO of the adsorption states O2\* for the five BCTF Co-phen(X) catalyzing ORRs. All calculations were performed at the cam-B3LYP/6-31G(d,p)-SDD level of theory.

activity compared to Co-phen(OH)-1 : 1 and Co-phen(OH)- 1: 3. It achieved an impressive half-wave potential of 0.75 V. However, when compared to BCTF Co-phen (OH), the molecular catalyst showed reduced stability. As revealed in Figure S32c, only 72.3% of the initial current was maintained after a 5600 s spin test for Co-phen(OH)-1 :2. The excellent electrochemical and thermal stability of BCTF Co-phen(OH) suggests that the well-defined CoN4 active sites constructed by post-modification of metal ions and ligands on CTF skeletons are stable and have application prospect.

To validate the generality of the approach of constructing CoN4 sites with asymmetric structures and local ligand environment adjustment, we also prepared TCTF as other platform using the monomers [2,2'-bipyridine]-5,5'diketimethanol and terephthalamidine (Figure S33).[12b] Its structures and morphological characterization are shown in Figure S34–S37. Similarly, TCTF Co and a range of TCTF Cophen(X) were prepared via the same modified method described above. The material characterization of TCTF Co is shown in Figure S38–S41. The FT-IR results (Figure S42) disclose that the characteristic vibrational peaks of TCTF appearing at 1517 cm <sup>1</sup> and 1353 cm <sup>1</sup> indicate the successful formation of triazine skeleton.[12b] The peaks of TCTF Co and TCTF Co-phen(OH) appearing near 1035 cm <sup>1</sup> are the Co N characteristic vibrational peaks, which indicate that the Co ions are successfully coordinated with the N species. The C O-stretching vibrational peaks of TCTF Co-phen- (OH) and phen(OH) appearing near 1210–1230 cm <sup>1</sup> confirm the successful modification of phen(OH). SEM results show that TCTF Co-phen(OH) maintains the original morphology of TCTF (Figure S43). Moreover, due to the sequential modification of Co ions and phen(OH), part of pore channels of the TCTF substrate were obscured, so TCTF Co-phen(OH) exhibits reduced crystallinity, SSA, and pore volume (Figure S41, S44 and Table S6). The XPS results of TCTF Co-phen(OH) are shown in Figure S45a–d. The successful modification of phen(OH) ligand leads to a significant increase in the content of Co N species in TCTF Co-phen(OH) compared to TCTF Co, consistent with the above XPS results of BCTF Co-phen(OH) and BCTF Co. The ORR catalytic activity and 4e selectivity of a range of TCTF Co-phen(X) were investigated using the RRDE apparatus. Similarly, the electron-pushing OH modified TCTF Co-phen(OH) exhibits the best catalytic activity with the half-wave potential of 0.78 V vs.RHE (Figure S46a and Table S4). The catalytic activities of the other catalysts all ranked after TCTF Co-phen(OH) in

order of the electron-donating ability of the substituent groups on the phen-based ligands. And their 4e selectivity is in the same order (Figure S46b). In summary, the model catalysts constructed on two different CTFs exhibit a consistent correspondence between the local coordination environment and catalytic activity, confirming the universality of our approach.

To further validate the excellent ORR catalytic activity and stability of BCTF Co-phen(OH), ZABs were assembled. The ZABs' structure is schematically shown in Figure S47. The BCTF Co-phen(OH)-based ZAB exhibited an open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.36 V, which was significantly higher than that of BCTF Co (1.30 V) (Figure S48). And its peak power density was 210.5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , which was about twice that of BCTF Co (101.4 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , Figure S49). Step discharge curves were utilized to evaluate the rate performance of ZABs (Figure S50). At any stages, the BCTF Co-phen(OH)-based ZAB exhibits higher discharge voltage levels than those of the BCTF Co-based ZABs. The constant-current discharge curves showed (Figure S51) that the specific capacity of BCTF Co-phen(OH) based ZAB was as high as 709.7 mAhgZn <sup>1</sup> , which was significantly higher than that of BCTF Co (651.1 mAhgZn <sup>1</sup> ). The excellent discharge stability of the BCTF Co-phen(OH) based ZABs once again demonstrate that our designed CoN4 coordination structure modified by the electron-pushing substituent group is stable and robust with a good durability.

### *Conclusion*

Overall, we have successfully fabricated model catalysts with well-defined CoN4 sites with asymmetric structures by a pyrolysis-free method, capitalizing on the modifiability of CTFs. By altering the substituent groups with the ability to donate/withdraw electrons in the vicinity of the CoN4 site, we fine-tuned the electron cloud density at the CoN4 site, subsequently influencing the electrocatalytic activity of the catalyst. ORR test results revealed that the catalytic activity of B/TCTF Co-phen(X) was directly proportional to the electron-donating capacity of the substituent group. Notably, the BCTF Co-phen(OH) catalyst, modified with the electron-pushing OH substituent group, exhibited an exceptional ORR half-wave potential of up to 0.80 V vs. RHE. This achievement positions it among the most remarkable nonpyrolytic organic-electrocatalysts reported in recent years.

#### *Author Contributions*

M. Lv and C.-X. Cui: Investigation, interpretation of the data, validation, and writing. M. Wu, Q. Wang, and T. Gao: Investigation and formal analysis. Y. Zheng, W. Liu, and Y. Huang: Formal analysis and conceptualization. N. Huang, T. Ma, and L. Ye: Conceptualization, methodology, supervision, funding acquisition, and writing.

### *Acknowledgements*

This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 51872147, 22136003), Project of Hubei Provincial Department of Education (D20221202), the 111 Project (D20015), and Hubei Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 2022CFA065, 2022CFB820). Open Access publishing facilitated by RMIT University, as part of the Wiley - RMIT University agreement via the Council of Australian University Librarians.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** nonpyrolytic catalysts **·** well-defined CoN4 centers **·** electron-donating or electron-withdrawing properties **·** electron density **·** ORR catalytic activity

- [1] a) Y.-X. Zhao, J.-H. Wen, P. Li, P.-F. Zhang, S.-N. Wang, D.- C. Li, J.-M. Dou, Y.-W. Li, H.-Y. Ma, L. Xu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202216950; b) F. Xiao, Y.-C. Wang, Z.-P. Wu, G. Chen, F. Yang, S. Zhu, K. Siddharth, Z. Kong, A. Lu, J.-C. Li, C.-J. Zhong, Z.-Y. Zhou, M. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006292; c) L. Zhao, J. Zhu, Y. Zheng, M. Xiao, R. Gao, Z. Zhang, G. Wen, H. Dou, Y.-P. Deng, A. Yu, Z. Wang, Z. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2102665; d) M. Lv, C. Luo, J. Li, Y. Zhang, Q. Zeng, N. Huang, S. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Liu, L. Ye, *ACS [Materials](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmaterialslett.2c01089) Lett.* **2023**, *5*, 744–752.
- [2] a) H. Li, S. Kelly, D. Guevarra, Z. Wang, Y. Wang, J. A. Haber, M. Anand, G. T. K. K. Gunasooriya, C. S. Abraham, S. Vijay, J. M. Gregoire, J. K. Nørskov, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00618-w)* **2021**, *4*, 463– [468](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00618-w); b) M. O. Cichocka, Z. Liang, D. Feng, S. Back, S. Siahrostami, X. Wang, L. Samperisi, Y. Sun, H. Xu, N. Hedin, H. Zheng, X. Zou, H.-C. Zhou, Z. Huang, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c06329) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [15386–15395](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c06329).
- [3] a) R. Z. Snitkoff-Sol, A. Friedman, H. C. Honig, Y. Yurko, A. Kozhushner, M. J. Zachman, P. Zelenay, A. M. Bond, L. Elbaz, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [163–170](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00748-9); b) S. Chen, T. Luo, X. Li, K. Chen, J. Fu, K. Liu, C. Cai, Q. Wang, H. Li, Y. Chen, C. Ma, L. Zhu, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, M. Zhu, E. Cortés, M. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [14505–14516;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01194) c) Y. Sun, S. Polani, F. Luo, S. Ott, P. Strasser, F. Dionigi, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 5984.
- [4] a) F. Wu, C. Pan, C.-T. He, Y. Han, W. Ma, H. Wei, W. Ji, W. Chen, J. Mao, P. Yu, D. Wang, L. Mao, Y. Li, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07790) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [16861–16867;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07790) b) X. Tian, X. F. Lu, B. Y. Xia, X. W. Lou, *Joule* **2020**, *4*, [45–68;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2019.12.014) c) C. Mi, H. Yu, L. Han, L. Zhang, L. Zhai, X. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Xiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2303235.
- [5] P. Xiong, S. Zhang, R. Wang, L. Zhang, Q. Ma, X. Ren, Y. Gao, Z. Wang, Z. Guo, C. Zhang, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE01360J) Sci.* **2023**, *16*, [3181–3213](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE01360J).
- [6] a) Z. Yang, J. Liu, Y. Li, G. Zhang, G. Xing, L. Chen, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202108684) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [20754–20759](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202108684); b) C. Qian, L. Feng,

- W. L. Teo, J. Liu, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhao, *Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-022-00437-y) Rev.* **2022**, *6*, [881–898;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-022-00437-y) c) H. Guo, D.-H. Si, H.-J. Zhu, Z.-A. Chen, R. Cao, Y.-B. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202319472.
- [7] a) R. Dun, X. He, J. Huang, W. Wang, l. Yiwei, L. Li, B. Lu, Z. Hua, J. Shi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, [5902–5909](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA00307H); b) S. Chen, Y. Zheng, B. Zhang, Y. Feng, J. Zhu, J. Xu, C. Zhang, W. Feng, T. Liu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, [1384–1393.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b16920)
- [8] a) J. Li, P. Liu, J. Yan, H. Huang, W. Song, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2206165; b) X. Li, Z. Xiang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 57; c) P. Peng, L. Shi, F. Huo, S. Zhang, C. Mi, Y. Cheng, Z. Xiang, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, [878–884](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b08667); d) Y. Yue, P. Cai, K. Xu, H. Li, H. Chen, H.-C. Zhou, N. Huang, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c06238) Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [18052–18060.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c06238)
- [9] a) M. Xiao, H. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, L. Gao, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.02.025)* **2018**, *46*, 396– [403;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.02.025) b) P. Li, H. Wang, X. Tan, W. Hu, M. Huang, J. Shi, J. Chen, S. Liu, Z. Shi, Z. Li, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *316*, [121674.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121674)
- [10] a) Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b13543) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [6254–6262](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b13543); b) X. Li, Q. Liu, B. Yang, Z. Liao, W. Yan, Z. Xiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204570.
- [11] X. Li, T. Chen, B. Yang, Z. Xiang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202215441.
- [12] a) Y. Zheng, N. A. Khan, X. Ni, K. A. I. Zhang, Y. Shen, N. Huang, X. Y. Kong, L. Ye, *Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC00712J)* **2023**, *59*, 6314– [6334;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC00712J) b) M. Liu, Q. Huang, S. Wang, Z. Li, B. Li, S. Jin, B. Tan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [11968–11972](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201806664).
- [13] Z.-S. Wu, L. Chen, J. Liu, K. Parvez, H. Liang, J. Shu, H. Sachdev, R. Graf, X. Feng, K. Müllen, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201304147)* **2014**, *26*, [1450–1455.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201304147)
- [14] a) B. Sheng, Y. Xie, Q. Zhao, H. Sheng, J. Zhao, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE02200E) Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, [4612–4619;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE02200E) b) Y. Shi, J. Yang, J. Yang, Z. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2111307.
- [15] J. Li, N. Huang, M. Lv, N. Su, C. Li, Y. Huang, Y. Wang, Y. Zheng, W. Liu, T. Ma, L. Ye, *EES [Catalysis](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EY00160A)* **2023**, *1*, 987–997.
- [16] a) Q.-J. Wu, D.-H. Si, Q. Wu, Y.-L. Dong, R. Cao, Y.-B. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202215687; b) W. Hou, M. Guo, T. Sun, Y. Xiao, H. Bi, Y. Xu, G. Han, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148643) Eng. J.* **2024**, *481*, [148643](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148643).
- [17] a) X. Zhao, P. Pachfule, S. Li, T. Langenhahn, M. Ye, C. Schlesiger, S. Praetz, J. Schmidt, A. Thomas, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b01226) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [6623–6630;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b01226) b) N. Li, D.-H. Si, Q.-j. Wu, Q. Wu, Y.-B. Huang, R. Cao, *CCS Chem.* **2022**, *5*, 1130–1143.

- [18] a) J. zheng, T. Kang, B. Liu, P. Wang, H. Li, M. Yang, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA00750A) Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [9911–9921;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA00750A) b) Z. Zhu, H. Yin, Y. Wang, C. H. Chuang, L. Xing, M. Dong, Y. R. Lu, G. Casillas-Garcia, Y. Zheng, S. Chen, Y. Dou, P. Liu, Q. Cheng, H. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2004670.
- [19] a) M. Wu, G. Zhang, H. Tong, X. Liu, L. Du, N. Chen, J. Wang, T. Sun, T. Regier, S. Sun, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105409)* **2021**, *79*, [105409](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105409); b) Y. Ren, H. Wang, T. Zhang, L. Ma, P. Ye, Y. Zhong, Y. Hu, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *32*, [2243–2248.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2020.12.050)
- [20] Y.-N. Gong, W. Zhong, Y. Li, Y. Qiu, L. Zheng, J. Jiang, H.-L. Jiang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [16723–16731.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07206)
- [21] a) J. Li, P. Liu, J. Mao, J. Yan, W. Song, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NR00791F)* **2022**, *14*, [6126–6132](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NR00791F); b) R. Ren, L. Yang, Z. Lin, X. Li, S. Zhang, T. Zheng, D. Wu, J. Wang, Z. Wei, W. Ding, N. Huang, M. Gu, Q. He, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [22781–22790;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA06228C) c) J. Li, J. Jia, J. Suo, C. Li, Z. Wang, H. Li, V. Valtchev, S. Qiu, X. Liu, Q. Fang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, [18349–18355](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA03534D); d) Z. You, B. Wang, Z. Zhao, Q. Zhang, W. Song, C. Zhang, X. Long, Y. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209129; e) X. Yan, B. Wang, J. Ren, X. Long, D. Yang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209583; f) C. Liu, F. Liu, H. Li, J. Chen, J. Fei, Z. Yu, Z. Yuan, C. Wang, H. Zheng, Z. Liu, M. Xu, G. Henkelman, L. Wei, Y. Chen, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, [3309–3319;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c10242) g) J.-Y. Yue, Y.-T. Wang, X. Wu, P. Yang, Y. Ma, X.-H. Liu, B. Tang, *Chem. Commun.* **2021**, *57*, [12619–12622;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CC04928C) h) D. Li, C. Li, L. Zhang, H. Li, L. Zhu, D. Yang, Q. Fang, S. Qiu, X. Yao, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c02225) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [8104–8108](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c02225); i) S. Bhunia, A. Peña-Duarte, H. Li, H. Li, M. F. Sanad, P. Saha, M. A. Addicoat, K. Sasaki, T. A. Strom, M. J. Yacamán, C. R. Cabrera, R. Seshadri, S. Bhattacharya, J.-L. Brédas, L. Echegoyen, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c09838) Nano* **2023**, *17*, [3492–3505;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c09838) j) J. Guo, C.-Y. Lin, Z. Xia, Z. Xiang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [12567–12572.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201808226)
- [22] a) M. Mandal, C. J. Cramer, D. G. Truhlar, J. Sauer, L. Gagliardi, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, [10051–10059](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02300); b) C. Lin, L. Sun, X. Meng, X. Yuan, C.-X. Cui, H. Qiao, P. Chen, S. Cui, L. Zhai, L. Mi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202211601.
- [23] a) A. M. Dudzinski, E. Diesen, H. H. Heenen, V. J. Bukas, K. Reuter, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, 12074–12081; b) L. Peng, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2003018.

Manuscript received: October 19, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: March 7, 2024 Version of record online: April 16, 2024