---
source: Muthusamy 等 - 2023 - Modification of Conductive Carbon with N‐Coordinated Fe−Co Dual‐Metal Sites for Oxygen Reduction Rea.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 72.941s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:50:30.533899Z
---

www.chemelectrochem.org

# **Modification of Conductive Carbon with N-Coordinated Fe Co Dual-Metal Sites for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

[Saravanakumar](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3872-8158) Muthusamy,[a, b, c, d, e] Amr Sabbah,[a, f] Palani [Sabhapathy,](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2473-3826)\*[e, g] Yu-Chung Chang,[h] Tadesse Billo,[a] Zeru Syum,[a] [Li-Chyong](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6373-7729) Chen,\*[e, i, j] and [Kuei-Hsien](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-9397-2516) Chen\*[a, e]

Earth-abundant commercial conductive carbon materials are ideal electrocatalyst supports but cannot be directly utilized for single-atom catalysts owing to the lack of anchoring sites. Therefore, we employed crosslink polymerization to modify the conductive carbon surface with Fe Co dual-site electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). First, metal-coordinated polyurea (PU) aerogels were prepared using via crosslinked polymerization at ambient temperature. Then, carbon-supported, atomically dispersed Fe Co dual-atom sites (FeCoNC/ BP) were formed by high-temperatures pyrolysis with a nitrogen source. FTIR and 13C NMR measurements showed PU linkages, while 15N NMR revealed metal–nitrogen coordination in the PU gels. Asymmetric, N-coordinated, and isolated Fe Co active structures were found after pyrolysis using XAS and STEM. In alkaline media, FeCoNC/BP exhibited excellent ORR activity, with a *E*1/2 of 0.93 V vs. RHE, higher than that of Pt/C (20%) (0.90 V), FeNC/BP (0.88 V), and CoNC/BP (0.85 V). An accelerated durability test (ADT) on FeCoNC/BP indicated good durability over 35000 cycles. FeCoNC/BP also showed moderate ORR and ADT performance in acidic media. The macro/mesoporous Ndoped carbon structures enhanced the mass transport properties of the dual Fe Co active-sites. Therefore, modifying carbon supports with nonprecious metal catalysts may be a costeffective-strategy for sustained electrochemical energy conversion.

### **Introduction**

Developing new sustainable energy technologies is crucial for reducing global carbon emissions. Sustainable energy systems heavily rely on electrochemical energy conversion technologies such as fuel cells, water electrolysis, metal–air batteries, and green chemical synthesis,[1] which in turn require highly durable, selective, and economically viable electrocatalysts. For example, the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is a critical process in fuel cells and metal–air batteries;[2] however, it exhibits a slow kinetics involving multiple proton-coupled electron transfers and the cleavage of strong O=O bonds. Moreover, the ORR heavily relies on precious electrocatalysts such as platinum[3] and its alloys,[4] which are typically expensive and suffer from stability, low methanol crossover tolerance, and higher catalyst loading issues, which all limit the widespread application of fuel cell technologies.

In 1964, Jasinski discovered cobalt phthalocyanine (Co N4), a nonprecious electrocatalyst for the ORR.[5] Since then, several studies have explored the application of metal macrocyclic M N4 (M=Fe, Co, and Mn) complexes, such as porphyrins,[6] corroles,[7] and corrins,[8] for the ORR. Among various pyrolyzed macrocyclic M N4 electrocatalysts based on nonprecious metals, FeNC[9] and CoNC[10] exhibit promising ORR activity, comparable to that of platinum.[11] Furthermore, due to the complexity of the synthesis of macrocyclic molecules, physical

- [a] *S. Muthusamy, Dr. A. Sabbah, Dr. T. Billo, Dr. Z. Syum, Prof. K.-H. Chen Institute of Atomic and Molecular Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei 10617, Taiwan*
  - *E-mail: chenkh@pub.iams.sinica.edu.tw*
- [b] *S. Muthusamy Sustainable Chemical Science and Technology, Taiwan International Graduate Program, Academia Sinica, Nangang, Taipei 11529, Taiwan*
- [c] *S. Muthusamy Institute of Chemistry, Academia Sinica, Nangang, Taipei 11529, Taiwan*
- [d] *S. Muthusamy Department of Applied Chemistry, National Yang-Ming Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 30010, Taiwan*
- [e] *S. Muthusamy, Dr. P. Sabhapathy, Prof. L.-C. Chen, Prof. K.-H. Chen Center for Condensed Matter Sciences, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan E-mail: chenlc@ntu.edu.tw*
- [f] *Dr. A. Sabbah Tabbin Institute for Metallurgical Studies, Tabbin, Helwan 109, Cairo 11421, Egypt*

- [g] *Dr. P. Sabhapathy Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA E-mail: sxp1359@case.edu*
- [h] *Dr. Y.-C. Chang X-ray Absorption Group, National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Hsinchu 30076, Taiwan*
- [i] *Prof. L.-C. Chen Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan*
- [j] *Prof. L.-C. Chen Center of Atomic Initiative for New Materials, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan*
- *Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.202300272>*
- *© 2023 The Authors. ChemElectroChem published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.*

mixing,[12] in situ polymerization,[11] and phenanthroline complex formation[13] techniques were introduced for the synthesis of M N C electrocatalysts (M=Fe and Co) with applications in proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC).[14] However, the physical mixing, followed by high-temperature pyrolysis, produces low-activity ORR sites such as metal particles, carbides, and oxides at the expense of uncontrolled porosity. In addition, acid leaching is commonly used to remove low-activity ORR sites, significantly altering the nature of the M N C active sites.[15] Furthermore, weak interactions with the support also reduce the durability of the electrocatalysts.

The Liu group paved the way for developing well-defined, highly active CoNC sites with controlled porosity using the cobalt imidazole framework.[16] The Wu and Li groups successfully developed an atomically dispersed M N C electrocatalyst derived from a metal-organic framework (MOF) for PEMFC applications.[17] However, the M N C electrocatalysts suffer from a limited durability associated with oxidative attacks on the active metal sites and membranes by minor amounts of formed H2O2. [9,18] Several methods, including heteroatom doped FeCo alloy,[19] Fe3C wrapped Fe N C graphene,[20] raising M N C active site density,[21] and dual-metal atom coordination,[11,22] have been proposed to tune the metal center[23] for achieving high selectivity toward the 4e ORR path and thus reduce the H2O2 formation.

Dual-atom catalysts (DACs) offer unique structural advantages for elongating the O O bond due to their adjacent bimetal atom active centers. For instance, FeCu N HC catalysts demonstrated an elongation of the O O bond from 1.21 to 1.39 Å through proper adsorption of \*OO on the FeCuN6 structure.[24] Similarly, triangular FeCoN5 OH structures[25] were found to provide an optimal eg-orbital energy level for Fe, facilitating easy intermediate desorption and elongation of the O O bond to 1.35 Å, promoting the cleavage of the O O bond. It is worth noting that while these studies demonstrate the elongated O O bond in bimetal dimers, further discussion on the interactions between intermediates and active sites, such as electronic states, is needed. Furthermore, altering the configuration of O2 adsorption to effectively activate the O=O bond can also contribute to oxygen dissociation. MOF-based, welldefined Fe Co dual sites show promising ORR activity and durability.[22a] However, the cost and scalability of the MOF synthesis represent serious drawbacks.[26]

To address this issue, a few attempts were made to modify the conductive carbon support with atomically dispersed M N C active sites.[27] Porous carbon is the best catalyst support, owing to its low cost, excellent conductivity, biocompatibility, chemical stability, high surface area, and tunable porosity.[27] Polymers can be converted to valuable carbon materials to reduce the environmental impact and raw material costs.[28] Recently, atomically dispersed M N C catalysts derived from heteroatom (N, O, S, and P)-containing polymers such as polydopamine, graphitic carbon nitride, and polyurea (PU) have been considered economically viable, owing to their low-cost polymeric precursors.[29] Moreover, polymeric aerogel-based electrocatalysts have several benefits, such as adjustable heteroatom coordination by changing the monomer, open active sites, controlled porosity for efficient mass transport, and high surface area. Durante et al. used the pyrolysis method to create a FeNC electrocatalyst from polyethylene and polyurethane, mimicking the polymeric waste conversion process.[30] Leventis et al. developed synthetic methods for various graphitic carbon aerogels from PU,[31] polyamide,[32] and polyisocyanurates.[33] Chandrasekaran et al. investigated the use of carbon and carbon-supported metallic aerogels derived from these polymer-based aerogels for electrochemical energy conversion applications such as energy storage[34] and electrocatalysis.[33,35] Recently, the Erkey group reported a highly durable ORR electrocatalyst based on Pt anchored on a Ndoped carbon support derived from polyamide[36] aerogels. On the other hand, the use of supercritical CO2 drying has hampered the scalability of aerogels.[37]

In this study, we investigated the modification of carbon black (BP2000) with atomically dispersed and nitrogen-coordinated Fe Co dual-site electrocatalysts for the ORR. Firstly, Fe and Co metal-complexed PU aerogels were synthesized by crosslink polymerization using BP2000. The surface oxygen functional groups on mildly oxidized BP2000 reacted with tris(4-isocyanatophenyl) methane (TIPM) monomer and dicyandiamide (DCDA), resulting in metal-coordinated PU aerogels. Room-temperature aerogels were prepared using pentane as a low-surface-tension solvent.[31a] In the next step, the metalcoordinated PU gels were physically mixed with DCDA nitrogen source, and upon pyrolysis, nitrogen-doped carbon support with atomically dispersed Fe Co dual-atom sites was formed. This approach enabled effective metal dispersion throughout the carbon matrix and the production of graphitic N-doped meso- and macroporous carbon. The resulting M N C/BP aerogels exhibited tailored physical properties and facilitated efficient mass transport of oxygen towards the M N C active sites for ORR in both alkaline and acidic environments.

### **Results and Discussion**

### **Gelation mechanism and structure of FeCo OxBP PU crosslinked networks**

The general synthetic methods for the carbon-supported, nitrogen-coordinated transition metal catalysts (FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP) are illustrated in Scheme 1. Metalcomplexed PU aerogels were prepared on the conductive BP2000 carbon support. We selected BP2000 carbon as a support material for M N C because of its high surface area and abundant mesopores, enabling the efficient loading of transition metals. In the first step, we used a mild acid treatment to create surface oxygen functional groups for effectively crosslinking with the tris(4-isocyanatophenyl) methane (TIPM) monomer and coordinating the transition metals. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern shows no changes in the carbon planes before and after acid treatment (Figure S1a, Supporting Information). The acid treatment created various oxygen functionalities such as OH, C=O, COOH, and C O C on the carbon surface, as confirmed by the Fourier-

**Scheme 1.** Schematic representation of steps involved in the FeCoNC/BP synthesis process.

transform infrared (FTIR) spectrum (Figure S1b, Supporting Information) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) profiles (Figure S1c, d, Supporting Information) of the oxidized BP2000 (OxBP) carbon.

The corresponding metal halide precursors, OxBP carbon and DCDA, were dispersed in DMF followed by gelation with TIPM monomer (see the Material synthesis section in the Supporting Information for further details). We used the highly reactive isocyanate chemistry to form crosslinked PU gels.[38] The isocyanate groups of TIPM directly react with various nucleophilic functional groups such as hydroxyl, epoxy, and carboxylic groups on the oxidized carbon surface, as well as with the amine group of DCDA to form PU gel networks.[39] This 3D-crosslinked PU network can effectively coordinate different transition metals.[40]

Furthermore, the metal ions can coordinate the PU networks of the polymer matrix as well as the residual functional groups on the carbon surface. The PU crosslink formation and the metal complexation of the gels were confirmed by FTIR, 13C, and 15N nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The FTIR spectra (Figure 1a) of OxBP show the characteristic peaks around 1732, 1572, 1305–900, and 3200–3500 cm <sup>1</sup> , attributed to C=O, C C, C O/ C O C, and COOH groups, respectively. The typical peaks of DCDA around 3100–3400, 3000, 1630, 1520, and 1317 cm <sup>1</sup> were attributed to *ν*<sup>s</sup> N H-*ν*<sup>s</sup> N H (Hbonded), *ν*<sup>s</sup> δC H (aliphatic), δN H, C=C, and *ν*<sup>s</sup> C N vibrations, respectively. In the metal-complexed FeCo OxBP PU gels, the isocyanate peak around 2265 cm <sup>1</sup> , the NH2 peak of DCDA at 3423 cm <sup>1</sup> , and the 1132 cm <sup>1</sup> peak of the C O C group of the conductive carbon support all disappeared. New characteristic peaks appeared in their place, corresponding to the broad polyurea N H stretching[31b] vibration at 3371 cm <sup>1</sup> and the bending vibration at 1592 cm <sup>1</sup> . The amide carbonyl peak[41] at 1657 cm <sup>1</sup> is related to the formation of polyurea–amide linkages between isocyanate, dicyandiamide, and the OxBP carbon.

Moreover, the chemical nature of the crosslinks was examined with the help of solid-state CPMAS 13C NMR. The 13C NMR peaks in Figure 1b account for carbon resonances present in the CN group (118.4 ppm) and C N units (162.8 ppm) of DCDA, as well as the NCO group (120 ppm), aromatic ring carbon (c-124.5, d-130, b-131.5, e-140.3 ppm), and aliphatic CH2 carbon (f-54.5 ppm) of TIPM monomer. The signals corresponding to the NCO (120 ppm) group of TIPM monomer and C NH2 (162.8 ppm) group of DCDA completely disappeared in the spectra of the metal-complexed PU crosslinked gels (Figure 1b). The appearance of a new urea carbonyl ( C=O) resonance peak at 155.7 ppm indicates the formation of polyurea crosslinks.[42] Solid-state CPMAS 15N NMR spectra (Figure 1c) were recorded to obtain further insights into the metal–polyurea interaction; we found that the 15N chemical shift (*δ*) values in the metal-free PU gels peaked at 107 ppm. However, the peak was observed at 85 ppm in the metalcoordinated PU gels, and the significant negative shift (ΔCoord15N= 22 ppm) was attributed to the metal coordination with amide nitrogen.[43] Upon metal complexation with the polyurea network, the lone pair electron on the nitrogen atom was donated to the empty d-orbital of the metal to form an M N bond. This metal–ligand pπ–dπ backdonation induced electronic changes,[44] causing the shift in the δ15N value.

To prepare carbon black-supported M N C, the pristine FeZn OxBP PU, CoZn OxBP PU, and FeZnCo OxBP PU gels were mixed with DCDA and pyrolyzed at 900°C in an inert atmosphere. Figure S2a (Supporting Information) shows the XRD patterns of the pristine FeZn OxBP PU, CoZn OxBP PU, and FeZnCo OxBP PU aerogels, revealing their amorphous and non-crystalline nature. However, compared to OxBP carbon, the peak corresponding to the (002) carbon plane appeared at a lower angle in all pristine gels, indicating that the interlayer *d*spacing increased from 3.9 to 4.4 Å. This shift was due to the intercalation[45] of the metal-coordinated PU polymer during the crosslink-polymerization reaction. At the same time, due to the

**Figure 1.** a) FTIR spectra of TIPM, DCDA, OxBP-2000, and FeCoZn OxBP PU gel before pyrolysis; b) solid-state CPMAS 13C NMR spectra of FeCoZn OxBP PU gel and liquid 13C NMR spectra of TIPM, DCDA; c) solid-state CPMAS 15N NMR spectra of FeCoZn OxBP PU and metal free-PU gel.

decomposition of the PU networks to carbon during pyrolysis, the interlayer spacing of the carbon (002) plane in the pyrolyzed FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP decreased to 3.5 Å (Figure S2b, Supporting Information).

The electronic structures of carbon and its environment were confirmed by examining the presence of the D and G bands in the Raman spectra (Figure S2c, Supporting Information). The D peak (1346 cm <sup>1</sup> ) indicates primary in-plane vibrational modes, whereas the G peak corresponds to the doubly degenerate zone center *E*2g mode from sp2 domains. The *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> ratio was close to 1, indicating all the samples have similar graphitic carbon nature. The XRD and Raman spectra confirm the highly graphitic nature of the carbon support. The FE-SEM images of NC/BP, FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP (Figure 2a

**Figure 2.** a) SEM image of FeCoNC/BP; b, c) HR-TEM images of FeCoNC/BP; d) bright-field and e) dark-field high-resolution HAADF-STEM images of FeCoNC/BP; f) EDS elemental mappings of FeCoNC/BP.

and Figure S3a–d, Supporting Information) show a macroporous structure consisting of aggregated large flakes, while the HR-TEM images of FeCoNC/BP (Figure 2b, c) display an interconnected porous sheet-like morphology. Moreover, the aberration-corrected high-angle annular bright field (ABF) and corresponding angular dark-field (ADF) scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) images (Figure 2d, e) display bright and dark spots, indicating atomically dispersed Fe and Co atoms. Elemental mappings were also obtained using energydispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), and showed the existence of N, Fe, and Co atoms uniformly distributed throughout the samples (Figure 2f). The metal concentrations in all M N C catalysts were determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The results show that FeNC/BP and CoNC/BP contained Fe (0.56 wt%) and Co (0.39 wt%), respectively, whereas FeCoNC/BP contained both (0.54 wt% Fe and 0.1 wt% Co) (Table S1, Supporting Information). The N2 adsorption isotherms (Figure S4a–d, Supporting Information) showed a type-IV pattern, with a hysteresis loop at *P*/*P*<sup>0</sup> between 0.5 to 0.9, indicating meso/microporosity.[46] The pore size distribution (PSD), Brunauer–Emmet–Teller (BET),[47] surface area, pore diameter, and pore volume were quantitatively evaluated using the N2 adsorption isotherm data. The corresponding results are listed in Table S2 (Supporting Information). According to the Barrett–Joyner–Halenda (BJH)[48] plot, the PSD maximum was located in the mesoporous and macroporous regions (*>*50 nm). The surface elemental composition of each electrocatalyst was determined from the XPS profiles. The two peaks observed in the high-resolution Fe 2p and Co 2p spectra (Figure S5, Supporting Information) corresponded to the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 orbitals of the ionic states (+2 and +3) of Fe and Co, respectively. The high-resolution C 1s, O 1s, and N 1s XPS spectra for all M N C samples are displayed in Figures S6, S7, and S8 (Supporting Information). The high-resolution C 1s spectra of the M N C samples were similar and contained four peaks. The main C=C peak at 284.6 eV is associated with graphitic sp2 carbon and also noted that the absence of a strong peak for Fe C (283.2–283.9 eV),[49] while the other three peaks correspond to C O/C=N (285.5 eV), C=O/C N (286.8 eV), and π–π֗\* (290.2 eV) groups. We also analyzed the highresolution O 1s spectra (Figure S7, Supporting Information), revealing the presence of carbon-oxygen species (C=O, C O C/ C OH). However, the strong Co/Fe O peak (529.1 eV)[50] was not visible in our CoNC/BP, FeNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP samples. The main nitrogen species present in the high-resolution N 1s spectra (Figure S8, Supporting Information) were graphitic N (401.5 eV), pyrrolic N/Fe/Co N (400.3 eV), pyridinic N (398.1 eV), and pyridinic N O (402 eV).[51] The XPS analysis showed that the total nitrogen content of all M N C electrocatalysts was between 8 and 9 at.% (Table S1, Supporting Information). Among all forms of nitrogen present in the M N C electrocatalysts, graphitic N accounted for the largest proportion (*>* 35%) (Figure S9, Supporting Information).

The symmetry of the coordination sphere, the valence states of the metals involved, and the local coordination structure of the pyrolyzed catalysts were further investigated using X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES), and Fourier-transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectroscopy. Figure 3a shows the XANES spectra of FeCoNC/ BP, FeNC/BP, Iron (III) oxide (�-Fe2O3), and Iron phthalocyanine (FePc). Because of the centrosymmetric nature of the metal site, a pre-edge peak at 7113 eV was observed in the FePc reference sample, but not in the FeCoNC/BP or FeNC/BP samples. The absorption edge for these samples was very close to that of FePc, indicating that the oxidation state of Fe was close to +2. Adding Co altered the electronic structure of Fe atoms, leading to a slight edge shift in FeCoNC/BP compared to FeNC/BP. The XANES Co *K*-edge spectra of FeCoNC/BP and CoNC/BP were compared to those of reference cobalt samples such as CoO (+ 2) and vitamin B12 (+3) (Figure 3c).

The cobalt atom in the CoNC/BP catalyst was almost entirely in the +2 oxidation state. The presence of Fe resulted in the Co atom in the FeCoNC/BP catalyst assuming an oxidation state between that of CoO (+2) and Co (0) foils. We also performed *k*3 -weighted FT-EXAFS measurements to gain insight into the coordination environment of the metal atom (Figure 3b and 3d). The Fe *K*-edge FT-EXAFS spectrum in *R*-space of FeNC/BP displayed a main peak at ~1.52 Å attributed to Fe N/O coordination in the structure, similar to the FePc spectrum, and no Fe Fe bonds (~2.2 Å) were observed (Figure 3b). Moreover, the FeCoNC/BP sample exhibited a broad Fe N bond peak (~1.52 Å) in the first shell and a Fe Co bond peak in the second shell (~2.52 Å),[52] confirming the formation of dual Fe Co coordination in the FeCoNC/BP catalyst. These results reveal the presence of atomically dispersed Fe Co atoms in the nitrogendoped carbon matrix, consistent with the STEM results. The FT-EXAFS fitting results show that the Fe atom coordinated three nitrogen atoms and formed one bond with Co (Figure S11, and Table S3, Supporting Information). Similarly, the Co *K*-edge FT-EXAFS results reveal the formation of Co N (~1.42 Å) and Co Fe (~2.5 Å) bonds (Figure 3d). The FT-EXAFS fitting with *R*and *k*-space of all samples are presented in Figures S10 and S11 (Supporting Information), respectively. The FT-EXAFS results

**Figure 3.** a) Fe *K*-edge XANES spectra and b) Fe *K*-edge *k*<sup>3</sup> -weighted FT-EXAFS spectra in *R*-space for FeCoNC/BP, FeNC/BP, FePc, �-Fe2O3, and Fe foil; c) Co *K*-edge XANES spectra and d) Co *K*-edge *k*<sup>3</sup> -weighted FT-EXAFS spectra in *R*-space for FeCoNC/BP, CoNC/BP, vitamin B12, CoO, and Co foil.

provide evidence for the formation of Fe Co dual-metal sites and the metal coordination with O/N atoms in the carbon matrix. The FT-EXAFS fitting values for the all samples are listed in Table S3, Supporting Information. According to the X-ray absorption spectroscopy and STEM analysis, the prepared catalyst contained both single- and dual-metal sites (Figure S12, Supporting Information).

### **Electrochemical tests**

The ORR performances and stability of the NC/BP, FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP electrocatalysts in O2/Ar gas-saturated acidic (0.1 M HClO4) and alkaline (0.1 M KOH) solutions at room temperature were determined utilizing a typical threeelectrode system with a rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE). In addition, the electrochemically active surface areas (ECSA) of the atomically dispersed NC/BP, FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP electrocatalysts were determined using cyclic voltammetry (CV) in Ar-saturated acidic and alkaline media, prior to electrochemical ORR measurements (Figure S13a-b, Supporting Information). In alkaline and acidic conditions, the dual-metal-embedded FeCoNC/BP electrocatalysts had a higher ECSA than the single-metal-embedded FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and NC/BP electrocatalysts (Tables S4 and S5, Supporting Information), enabling a faster access of reactants to the active sites.

Figure 4a shows linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) ORR polarization curves (normalized to the glassy carbon electrode area) obtained in an acidic medium. The curves show that the dualatom FeCoNC/BP electrocatalyst had higher ORR activity, with a half-wave potential (*E*1/2=0.72 V vs. RHE) higher than that of their NC/BP (*E*1/2=0.45 V), FeNC/BP (*E*1/2=0.66 V) and CoNC/BP (*E*1/2=0.62 V) counterparts. The difference between the *E*1/2 values of FeCoNC/BP and commercial Pt/C (20%) was around 100 mV; however, compared to other electrocatalysts, FeCoNC/

**Figure 4.** Electrochemical ORR tests. a) LSV curves of electrocatalysts in an acidic medium; b) *n* value and H2O2 selectivity as a function of potential using RRDE in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4 at 1600 rpm. c) LSV curves of electrocatalysts in an alkaline medium; d) *n* value and H2O2 selectivity as a function of potential using RRDE in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm.

BP had the highest limiting current density (6.9 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ). Figure 4b shows the corresponding electron transfer number (*n*-value) and H2O2 selectivity of the synthesized electrocatalysts. Because of the presence of the Fe Co dual-metal atoms, FeCoNC/BP produced lower peroxide amounts (*<* 8%) in the entire potential range than NC/BP (*>*40%), FeNC/BP (15%) and CoNC/BP (35%), with an electron transfer number close to four, as also verified by examining the Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots at different rotation speeds (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The Tafel slope of FeCoNC/BP (93 mV/dec) was also close to that of the reference Pt/C (20%) electrocatalyst (88 mV/dec), further confirming the ORR kinetic enhancements (Figure S15, Supporting Information).

The ORR performance in alkaline media (Figure 4c) was also investigated by LSV in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. The dual-atom FeCoNC/BP exhibited an ORR onset potential (*E*onset) of 1.06 V and a *E*1/2 value of 0.93 V, outperforming the single-atom FeNC/ BP (*E*1/2=0.88 V), CoNC/BP (*E*1/2=0.84 V), and NC/BP (*E*1/2= 0.68 V), as well as the state-of-the-art Pt/C (20%) (*E*1/2=0.90 V) electrocatalyst. In particular, the *E*1/2 of FeCoNC/BP was 30 mV more positive than that of commercial Pt/C (20%) and higher than that of other known dual-atom catalysts (Table S6, Supporting Information). The hydrogen peroxide generation was less than 5% in the entire potential range, and the electron transfer number was close to four (Figure 4d), as also confirmed by the K–L plot (Figure S16, Supporting Information). In addition, the limiting current density (6.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) of FeCoNC/ BP was the highest among all investigated electrocatalysts. This may be due to the predominance of macro- and mesoporous graphitic-N[53] structures, facilitating oxygen mass transport.[54] Compared to Pt/C (20%) (88 mV/dec), FeNC/BP (70 mV/dec), and CoNC/BP (72 mV/dec), the FeCoNC/BP had a lower Tafel slope (66 mV/dec) in the low-overpotential region (Figure S17, Supporting Information), indicating a faster ORR kinetics. The increased electron transfer value, high limiting current density, decreased Tafel value, and low peroxide yield demonstrate the superior ORR performance of the Fe Co dual-atom electrocatalyst. The enhanced ORR activity reduces the peroxide amount of FeCoNC/BP through the efficient cleavage of the O=O bond by Fe and Co dual sites *via* the 4e transfer mechanism.

The durability of the dual-atom electrocatalyst in acidic and alkaline media was investigated using an RRDE-based accelerated durability test (ADT), which was conducted in O2 saturated 0.1 M HClO4 using cyclic voltammetry. The LSV polarization curves show a 55 mV negative shift in the *E*1/2 value after 30000 cycles in the potential range between 0.6 and 1.1 V vs. RHE. The comparison with previous Pt/C durability studies[55] reveals that our dual-atom electrocatalyst exhibited a lower polarization curve shift (55 vs. 65 mV for Pt/C, 2000 cycles) even after 30000 cycles (Figure 5a). We also compared it with our Pt/ C durability test (55 vs. 30 mV for Pt/C, 30000 cycles) (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The significant *E*1/2 shift is due to the nanocluster (~2–4 nm) formation (Figure S19, Supporting Information) or demetallation[17a,56] in harsh acidic conditions. Moreover, there were no substantial changes in the *n* value, but the H2O2 yield increased from 5% to 8% at 0.6 V vs. RHE

**Figure 5.** Electrochemical accelerated durability test. a) FeCoNC/BP RRDE LSV polarization curves before and after 30000 CV cycles in O2-saturated 0.1 M HClO4 at 1600 rpm. b) Corresponding *n* values and H2O2 yields before and after the ADT test. c) FeCoNC/BP LSV polarization curves before and after 35000 CV cycles at 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. d) Corresponding n values and H2O2 yields before and after ADT test.

(Figure 5b). The ADT results suggest that Fe Co dual-atom electrocatalyst had moderate stability in an acidic medium.

In an alkaline medium, FeCoNC/BP exhibited excellent stability over 35000 cycles, with only a slight change in *E*1/2 value (5 mV loss; Figure 5c). The kinetic and mixed kinetic–mass transport regions showed no significant differences; however, we did notice a slight decrease in the limiting current density. We observed substantial changes in ECSA before (179 m<sup>2</sup> /g) and after (136 m2 /g) the durability test (Figure S20, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, we do not observe the formation of any nanoclusters or morphological changes after durability studies (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The significant differences in ECSA due to the mild electro-oxidation[57] of the carbon surface may account for the slight decline in *n* value and increase in H2O2 yield (from 5% to 15%) after the ADT test (Figure 5d). A 100-h chronoamperometry (CA) test at 0.90 V vs. RHE in an alkaline medium showed that the ORR current of the FeCoNC/BP electrocatalyst was stable, with only an 8% loss (Figure S22a, Supporting Information). In addition, we measured the H2O2 yield following a CA test of 100 h. The peroxide concentration increased from 5% to 12%, and the *n*-value decreased from 3.9 to 3.8 (Figure S22b, Supporting Information). We observed that the hydrogen peroxide yield was slightly higher in an alkaline medium at the ADT cycle test than at the constant potential. It's due to mild changes in ECSA (165 m2 /g) after the 100 h CA test compared to the ADT cycle test (136 m2 /g). In both stability tests (acid and alkaline), the significant decreases in ECSA led to a notable increase in hydrogen peroxide yield.

The dual-metal atom-embedded FeCoNC/BP electrocatalysts exhibited higher mass activity in an alkaline medium (Figure 6a) compared to the single-metal embedded FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and Pt/C (20%). More specifically, at 0.9 V, the mass activity of

**Figure 6.** a) Mass activity of all electrocatalysts; b) Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy Nyquist plots (the equivalent circuit model shown in the inset) of FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP at 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH.

FeCoNC/BP was almost 8 times higher than that of CoNC/BP and 3 times higher than that FeNC/BP.

Furthermore, to understand the electrochemical properties of the present electrocatalysts, we carried out electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements in an O2-saturated alkaline medium. The EIS curves of all electrocatalysts were measured in the *E*1/2 region of the ORR linear sweep voltammograms or in the mixed-diffusion-controlled region, to gain further insights into the charge transfer and mass transport properties.[58] The inset of Figure 6b shows the equivalent circuit model fitted with an experimental Nyquist plot; the fitted values are listed in Table S7, Supporting Information. In addition to the solution resistance (*R*s) at the electrode–electrolyte interface, the Nyquist plots display (Figure 6b) two semicircles, one in the high-frequency region and the other in the lowfrequency region, representing the charge-transfer resistance (*R*1, Q1) and oxygen mass-transfer resistance (*R*2, Q2), respectively.[59] Compared to the single metal-embedded FeNC/ BP (*R*1=103 Ω, *R*2=48 Ω) or CoNC/BP (*R*1=121 Ω, *R*2=69 Ω) electrocatalysts, the Fe Co dual-atom electrocatalysts had lower charge- and mass-transfer resistances (*R*1=76 Ω; *R*2=41 Ω) (Table S7, Supporting Information). This may be due to the macro/mesoporous[54b,60] graphitic nitrogen-doped carbon and the synergistic effect of the Fe Co dual sites. These results support the hypothesis[22b] that the Fe Co dual-atom sites might cleave the O=O bond considerably faster than the singleatom (Fe or Co) electrocatalysts.

### **Conclusions**

In conclusion, we prepared room-temperature crosslinked metal-coordinated polyurea aerogels using a carbon support. To ensure scalability, polyurea aerogel was produced at room temperature using the low-surface-tension pentane solvent for washing. Carbon supports with atomically dispersed nitrogencoordinated Fe, Co, and Fe Co dual active sites were produced through the pyrolysis of metal-complexed polyurea aerogels, using dicyandiamide as the nitrogen source. This preparation method greatly facilitated the formation of Fe Co dual-sites, which increased nitrogen doping beyond the 9 at.% threshold. In addition, the synergistic action of the Fe Co dual-atoms and the mesoporous conductive carbon substrate greatly enhanced

the ORR activity, mass activity, and durability in both alkaline and acidic media. Our approach provides a low-cost option for modifying the carbon support using a catalyst system with atomically dispersed metal sites. In order to optimize the adsorption energy of intermediate species in electrochemical energy conversion applications, various crosslinkers can be utilized to fine-tune the coordination of active metal sites with a wide variety of heteroatoms.

# **Experimental Section**

### **Material synthesis**

#### *Chemicals*

Iron(III) chloride hexahydrate, cobalt(II) chloride hexahydrate, zinc chloride anhydrous, dicyandiamide (DCDA), *N*,*N*-dimethylformamide (DMF), nitric acid (98%), pentane, and acetone were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich, whereas (tris(4-isocyanatophenyl) methane) (TIPM) (~27% in ethyl acetate) was purchased from Bayer USA. Black Pearls 2000 (BP2000) was purchased from Cabot Corporation. All these chemicals were used without further purification.

#### *Preparation of oxidized BP2000 carbon (OxBP)*

One gram of BP2000 was refluxed in 50 mL of 9 M nitric acid at 90°C for 3 h, followed by vacuum filtration and repeated washing with deionized (DI) water until neutral pH. Then, the resulting residue was dried at 80°C in a vacuum oven overnight.

### *Synthesis of FeZn polyurea-BP2000 carbon aerogel*

One hundred milligrams of oxidized BP2000 carbon (OxBP), 8 mmol of DCDA, 1 mmol of FeCl3 ·6H2O, and 1 mmol of ZnCl2 were dispersed in 15 mL DMF using an ultrasonic bath at room temperature. The sol was further stirred overnight at 60°C. Finally, gelation was carried out with 3 mmol of TIPM, and the sol was transferred to polypropylene molds (gelation time: 8–10 minutes).

#### *Synthesis of CoZn polyurea-BP2000 carbon aerogel*

The CoZn polyurea-BP2000 carbon aerogel was synthesized following the same procedure described above, using CoCl2 ·6H2O instead of FeCl3 ·6H2O. (Gelation time: 8–10 minutes).

### *Synthesis of FeCoZn polyurea-BP2000 carbon aerogel*

One hundred milligrams of OxBP, 8 mmol of DCDA, and 0.5 mmol of each of FeCl3 ·6H2O, CoCl2 ·6H2O, and ZnCl2 were dispersed in 15 mL DMF using an ultrasonic bath at room temperature. The sol was further stirred overnight at 60°C. Finally, gelation was carried out with 3–4 mmol of TIPM. The sol was immediately transferred to polypropylene molds (gelation time: 8–10 min).

# *Gel washing*

All the above gels were washed with DMF (3×8 h), further washed with acetone (3×8 h) and pentane (3×8 h), and dried at room temperature.

### *Synthesis of M N C*

The dried gels were physically mixed with DCDA (1:10 weight ratio), placed in a tube furnace, heated to the required temperature of 900°C for 2 h at a heating rate of 5°Cmin <sup>1</sup> under N2 gas flow (80 sccm), and then naturally cooled to room temperature. The pyrolyzed gels are labeled FeNC/BP, CoNC/BP, and FeCoNC/BP, respectively.

#### **Physical characterization**

Crystallographic structures were analyzed using a Powder X-ray diffractometer (Bruker D2 Phaser) with CuKα radiation (λ= 1.5406 Å). The measurements were conducted over the 2*θ* range from 10° to 90° at a rate of 5° per minute. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) spectra were recorded using the Thermo Nicolet 6700 spectrometer (Thermo fisher scientific, USA) in ATR mode. Solid-state CPMAS 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) and solid-state 15N NMR were conducted using the Bruker Advance III (800 MHz) and analyzed using Top Spin software. Raman experiments utilized a Jobin-Yvon Lab RAM HR800-confocal micro-Raman spectroscopy system with a 532 nm He Ne laser as the excitation source. ESCA VG Scientific (2002) used a monochromatic Al Kα as the exciting source for XPS observations on a theta probe. The XPS peak locations were calibrated with respect to the Au 4f peak, and the spectra were deconvolved using the Voigt fitting function after the Shirley background subtraction technique. Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, JEOL, 6700F) was used to investigate all sample microstructures. A high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HR-TEM JEOL-2100) and a high-angle annular dark-field STEM (GrandARM) (JEM-ARM300F-JEOL) were utilized to comprehend better the material microstructure, phase, and elemental compositions. Composition analysis, specifically for Fe and Co contents, was performed using inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) in Agilent 7500CE, USA. The isotherms for nitrogen gas sorption were measured at 77 K in a BELSORP MAX II (MicrotracBEL, Japan). Before measurements, samples were degassed at 473K for 12 h under a 1×10 2mmHg vacuum using BELPREP Vac II vacuum degasser.

X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) and Fouriertransform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) measurements were performed at Taiwan's National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC) on beamlines 17 C and 44 A of the Taiwan Photon Source (TPS). FT-EXAFS spectra were recorded in both fluorescence and transmission modes. The energy of the monochromator was calibrated using a reference foil. The XAS data was analyzed using Demeter software. Additionally, the raw EXAFS data were background-subtracted, normalized, and Fourier-transformed using the ATHENA tool, with all fittings carried out in Rspace with a k-weight of 3.

### **Electrochemical measurements**

All electrochemical measurements were carried out in a custommade conventional three-electrode cell using a potentiostat/ galvanostat (Biologic Bi-Stat, France) with a Pine Instruments (Raleigh, NC) rotator. A sealed saturated calomel electrode (SCE, sat. KCl) and graphite were used as reference and counter electrodes, respectively. The reference electrode potential was calibrated with respect to the reverse hydrogen electrode (RHE) using Equation (1).

$$E_{RHE} = E_{SCE} + 0.059 \text{ pH} + E^{0}_{SCE}$$
 (1)

The RHE calibration was performed in a high-purity H2 gassaturated 0.1 M HClO4 and 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (volume: 100 mL).

Pt wires were used as working and counter electrodes. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were carried out at the scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The average of the potentials at which the current crossed zero was taken as the thermodynamic potential for the hydrogen electrode reactions. For oxygen reduction reaction experiments, a rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) is equipped with a glassy carbon disk (geometric surface area: 0.237 cm<sup>-2</sup>) and a Pt ring (geometric surface area: 0.235 cm<sup>-2</sup>). Before using the RRDE electrodes, they were thoroughly polished with 1, 0.3, and 0.05  $\mu$ m-sized alumina suspensions on cloth and sonicated in water for 2 min. The RRDE electrode ring collection efficiency was calibrated using a 2 mM [Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>]<sup>4-/3-</sup> redox system.

Commercial 20 wt% Pt/C 4 mg and 8 mg of our nonprecious metal catalysts were dispersed in 700 µL of Milli-Q water, 280 µL of isopropanol, and 20 μL of 5% Nafion® solution. The catalytic ink (25 µL) was drop-cast onto the glassy carbon and dried to form a film at room temperature, with a catalyst loading amount of approximately 0.8 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. Before the measurements, the electrolytes were saturated with Ar or N<sub>2</sub>/O<sub>2</sub> gas for 30 min. For oxygen reduction measurements, 0.1 M KOH and 0.1 M HClO₄ electrolytes were saturated with O<sub>2</sub> gas. The CV experiments were carried out in an Ar or N<sub>2</sub>/O<sub>2</sub> gas-saturated electrolyte with a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The RDE/RRDE experiments were performed with rotating speeds between 100 and 2500 rpm. All linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements were conducted at 1600 rpm. Our FeCoNC/ BP and commercial Pt/C accelerated durability tests were performed in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH and 0.1 M HClO4 solutions at room temperature using CV cycling between 0.6 and 1.0 V vs. RHE at 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>.

The electron transfer number (n) and  $H_2O_2$  selectivity (%  $H_2O_2$ ) were directly calculated from the ring ( $I_r$ ) and disk ( $I_d$ ) currents through the following Equations (2) and (3):

$$n = \frac{4 I_{\rm d}}{I_{\rm d} + \frac{I_{\rm r}}{N}} \tag{2}$$

$$\% H_2O_2 = \frac{2\frac{l_1}{N}}{l_d + \frac{l_1}{N}} \times 100$$
 (3)

where N is the ring collection efficiency (0.34).

In alkaline and acidic media, the number of electrons transferred at various potentials was calculated using the Koutecky–Levich (K–L) Equation (4):

$$\frac{1}{J} = \frac{1}{J_{L}} + \frac{1}{J_{K}} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{1/2}} + \frac{1}{J_{K}}$$
 (4)

where B=0.62 nF  $C_0$   $D_0^{\frac{1}{2}}$   $\nu^{-1/6}$ ; J,  $J_{L}$  and  $J_k$  are the measured current density, diffusion-limiting current density, and kinetic current density, respectively; F is the Faraday constant (96485 C mol $^{-1}$ ),  $\omega$  is the angular velocity for the RDE (rad s $^{-1}$ ),  $D_0$  is the oxygen diffusion coefficient (1.93×10 $^{-5}$  cm $^2$ s $^{-1}$  for 0.1 M HClO $_4$  and 1.9×10 $^{-5}$  cm $^2$ s $^{-1}$  for 0.1 M KOH),  $C_0$  is the bulk saturated oxygen concentration (1.18×10 $^{-6}$  mol L $^{-1}$  in 0.1 M HClO $_4$  and 1.2×10 $^{-3}$  mol L $^{-1}$  in 0.1 M KOH), n is the number of electrons transferred during the ORR, and  $\nu$  is the kinetic viscosity of the electrolyte (8.93×10 $^{-3}$  cm $^2$ s $^{-1}$  in 0.1 M HClO $_4$  and 0.01 cm $^2$ s $^{-1}$  in 0.1 M KOH).

The  $j_{kr}$  mass activity (MA), and Tafel slope (mV/dec) values were calculated from RRDE measurements using the following equations:

Kinetic current density: The mass transport-corrected kinetic current density was calculated according to following Equation (5):

$$j_{K} = \frac{j \times j_{L}}{j - j_{L}} \tag{5}$$

*Mass activity:* The mass activity was derived from the kinetic current density and catalyst mass loading ( $m_{\text{catalyst}} = 0.8 \text{ mg cm}^{-2}$ ) on the glassy carbon disk, according the Equation (6) below. The mass activities of CoNC/BP, FeNC/BP, FeCoNC/BP, and Pt/C (20%) were compared at 0.90 and 0.85 V.

$$MA = \frac{j_k}{m_{\text{catalyst}}} \tag{6}$$

#### Electrochemical double-layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>)

The CV technique was used to calculate the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of the catalysts.<sup>[10]</sup> The CV curves of each sample in Ar-saturated 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> and 0.1 M KOH solutions are shown in Figures S13a and S13b. The broad peak between 0.2 and 0.6 V in the cyclic voltammograms is due to the pseudocapacitance associated with nitrogen-doped carbon. The gravimetric double-layer capacitance C (F  $g^{-1}$ ) of the electrocatalyst was calculated using the following Equation (7):

$$C = \frac{I}{v m} \tag{7}$$

where I is the current (mA), v is the scan rate (10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>), and m is the electrocatalyst mass loading (0.8 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>).

#### Electrochemically accessible surface area (Sa) calculation

Various functional groups can enhance the hydrophilicity of catalysts, facilitating access to electrolytes. The  $S_a$  value can be calculated from the following Equation (8):

$$Sa = \frac{C}{CGC}$$
 (8)

where  $C_{GC}$  is the double-layer capacitance of the glassy carbon electrode, typically 0.2 Fm $^{-2}$ .

#### Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS)

The impedance spectra of all electrocatalysts were measured at the mixed diffusion-controlled region of the ORR polarization curve in  $O_z$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm, using a Solartron multichannel electrochemical station (1470E). The AC amplitude was set to 10 mV, and the frequency range for measurements spanned from 1 MHz to 0.01 Hz. Subsequently, the acquired EIS spectra were analyzed using commercial software (ZView, Scribner Associates, Inc.) and fitted to the appropriate equivalent circuit.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author. The additional references are cited within the supporting information.<sup>[61]</sup>

## *Acknowledgements*

The authors thank Dr. Raman Sankar, Dr. Khasim Saheb Bayikadi, and Dr. Raja Rathnam for their continued assistance. In addition, SM is grateful to the Taiwan's Ministry of Education and Academia Sinica for a TIGP scholarship. The authors also thank the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Taiwan for beam time allocation and Dr. Shing-Jong Huang, the National Taiwan University Instrumentation Center for support with NMR characterization. This study was financially supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) of Taiwan (under the Science Vanguard Project [110-2123-M-002-006, 111- 2123-M-002-009, and 110-2113-M-001-033-MY2]), the Sustainability Science Research Program of Academia Sinica [AS-SS-110-04], and the Center of Atomic Initiative for New Materials (AI-Mat), National Taiwan University [110L9008 and 111L9008], supported by the Featured Areas Research Center Program within the framework of the Higher Education Sprout Project by the Ministry of Education (MOE) of Taiwan.

# *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

**Keywords:** conductive carbon **·** oxygen reduction **·** electrocatalysis **·** dual metal-atom catalysts **·** polyurea aerogels

- [1] a) J. Cabana, T. Alaan, G. W. Crabtree, P.-W. Huang, A. Jain, M. Murphy, J. N'Diaye, K. Ojha, G. Agbeworvi, H. Bergstrom, S. Gersib, H. Harb, A. Stejer, G. Quiles-Galarza, O. Rodriguez, I. Caruso, J. M. Gonçalves, G. Y. Chen, C. A. Fernández, H. Pan, K. Ritter, Y. Yang, H. Zhang, A. C. García-Álvarez, S. Ilic, K. Kumar, R. Silcox, Y. Yao, H. Song, S. Stoyanov, M. Saraf, C. H. Chen, S. M. S. Subasinghe, R. Gomes, S. Lang, E. Murphy, A. S. Thind, Y. Zheng, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2023**, *8*, [740–747](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.2c02587); b) R. Xia, S. Overa, F. Jiao, *JACS Au* **2022**, *2*, [1054–1070.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00138)
- [2] A. Muthurasu, P. Sampath, T. H. Ko, P. C. Lohani, I. Pathak, D. Acharya, K. Chhetri, D. H. Kim, H. Y. Kim, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *330*, [122523.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122523)
- [3] M. Karuppannan, Y. Kim, S. Gok, E. Lee, J. Y. Hwang, J. H. Jang, Y. H. Cho, T. Lim, Y. E. Sung, O. J. Kwon, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, [2820–2829](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE01000A).
- [4] C. H. Cui, L. Gan, M. Heggen, S. Rudi, P. Strasser, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3668)* **2013**, *12*, [765–771](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3668).
- [5] R. Jasinski, *Nature* **1964**, *201*, [1212–1213.](https://doi.org/10.1038/2011212a0)
- [6] S. Yamazaki, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *373*, [148–166](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2017.09.016).
- [7] a) S. Samireddi, V. Aishwarya, I. Shown, S. Muthusamy, S. M. Unni, K. T. Wong, K. H. Chen, L. C. Chen, *Small* **2021**, *17*; b) H. C. Huang, C. H. Wang, I. Shown, S. T. Chang, H. C. Hsu, H. Y. Du, L. C. Chen, K. H. Chen, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ta13515b) Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, [14692–14699](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ta13515b); c) H. C. Huang, I. Shown, S. T. Chang, H. C. Hsu, H. Y. Du, M. C. Kuo, K. T. Wong, S. F. Wang, C. H. Wang, L. C. Chen, K. H. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2012**, *22*, [3500–3508.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201200264)
- [8] S. T. Chang, C. H. Wang, H. Y. Du, H. C. Hsu, C. M. Kang, C. C. Chen, J. C. S. Wu, S. C. Yen, W. F. Huang, L. C. Chen, M. C. Lin, K. H. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, [5305–5314.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C1EE01962G)
- [9] H. G. Zhang, S. Hwang, M. Y. Wang, Z. X. Feng, S. Karakalos, L. L. Luo, Z. Qiao, X. H. Xie, C. M. Wang, D. Su, Y. Y. Shao, G. Wu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514) Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [14143–14149.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514)

- [10] X. L. Wang, Q. Li, H. Y. Pan, Y. Lin, Y. J. Ke, H. Y. Sheng, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, *Nanoscale* **2015**, *7*, [20290–20298](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5NR05864C).
- [11] G. Wu, K. L. More, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1200832)* **2011**, *332*, 443– [447.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1200832)
- [12] a) S. Gupta, D. Tryk, I. Bae, W. Aldred, E. Yeager, *J. Appl. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01039385)* **1989**, *19*, [19–27;](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01039385) b) R. Kothandaraman, V. Nallathambi, K. Artyushkova, S. C. Barton, *Appl. Catal. B* **2009**, *92*, [209–216](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2009.07.005).
- [13] E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, M. Lefèvre, N. Larouche, J. Tian, J. Herranz, J.-P. Dodelet, *Nat. Commun.* **2011**, *2*, 416.
- [14] M. Lefevre, E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, J. P. Dodelet, *Science* **2009**, *324*, 71–74.
- [15] a) S. Ganesan, N. Leonard, S. Calabrese Barton, *ECS [Trans.](https://doi.org/10.1149/05801.1691ecst)* **2013**, *58*, [1691;](https://doi.org/10.1149/05801.1691ecst) b) H. G. Zhang, H. Osgood, X. H. Xie, Y. Y. Shao, G. Wu, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.11.033) Energy* **2017**, *31*, [331–350](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.11.033).
- [16] a) S. Q. Ma, G. A. Goenaga, A. V. Call, D. J. Liu, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201003080) Eur. J.* **2011**, *17*, [2063–2067;](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201003080) b) D. Zhao, J. L. Shui, L. R. Grabstanowicz, C. Chen, S. M. Commet, T. Xu, J. Lu, D. J. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, [1093–1097.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201304238)
- [17] a) U. Martinez, S. K. Babu, E. F. Holby, P. Zelenay, *Curr. Opin. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2018.04.010)* **2018**, *9*, [224–232](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.coelec.2018.04.010); b) X. X. Wang, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0304-9)* **2019**, *2*, [578–589;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0304-9) c) V. Goellner, V. Armel, A. Zitolo, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.1091506jes) [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.1091506jes) Soc.* **2015**, *162*, H403–H414.
- [18] a) Y. H. He, S. Hwang, D. A. Cullen, M. A. Uddin, L. Langhorst, B. Y. Li, S. Karakalos, A. J. Kropf, E. C. Wegener, J. Sokolowski, M. J. Chen, D. Myers, D. Su, K. L. More, G. F. Wang, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE02694G) Sci.* **2019**, *12*, [250–260;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE02694G) b) Y. H. He, S. W. Liu, C. Priest, Q. R. Shi, G. Wu, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00903E) Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, [3484–3524.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00903E)
- [19] L.-L. Liu, D.-H. Wu, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, A.-J. Wang, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.02.061) Sci.* **2023**, *639*, [424–433.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.02.061)
- [20] M.-T. Chen, Z.-X. Huang, X. Ye, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, A.-J. Wang, *J. [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.01.077) Interface Sci.* **2023**, *637*, [216–224](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.01.077).
- [21] J. Z. Li, M. J. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Y. Wang, B. Y. Li, K. X. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. G. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. X. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. F. Wang, Z. B. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0164-8)* **2018**, *1*, [935–945.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0164-8)
- [22] a) J. Wang, Z. Q. Huang, W. Liu, C. R. Chang, H. L. Tang, Z. J. Li, W. X. Chen, C. J. Jia, T. Yao, S. Q. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. D. Lie, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10385) Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [17281–17284;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10385) b) A. Pedersen, J. Barrio, A. Li, R. Jervis, D. J. L. Brett, M. M. Titirici, I. E. L. Stephens, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2102715.
- [23] Y. J. Chen, R. Gao, S. F. Ji, H. J. Li, K. Tang, P. Jiang, H. B. Hu, Z. D. Zhang, H. G. Hao, Q. Y. Qu, X. Liang, W. X. Chen, J. C. Dong, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [3212–3221](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012798).
- [24] H. Sun, M. Wang, S. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Shen, T. Qian, X. Niu, J. Xiong, C. Yan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, [2006533.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202006533)
- [25] M. L. Xiao, Y. T. Chen, J. B. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Q. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. L. Chen, C. P. Liu, W. Xing, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08362) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [17763–17770.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08362)
- [26] a) K. Vikrant, V. Kumar, K. H. Kim, D. Kukkar, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA07847A) Chem. A.* **2017**, *5*, [22877–22896;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA07847A) b) A. Deacon, L. Briquet, M. Malankowska, F. Massingberd-Mundy, S. Rudić, T. l. Hyde, H. Cavaye, J. Coronas, S. Poulston, T. Johnson, *Commun. Chem.* **2022**, *5*, 18.
- [27] a) L. N. Wang, J. W. Zhang, L. R. Zheng, J. R. Yang, Y. C. Li, X. Wan, J. Y. Liu, X. X. Zhang, R. H. Yu, J. L. Shui, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [13166–](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA01208D) [13172;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA01208D) b) S. Buchele, Z. P. Chen, S. Mitchell, R. Hauert, F. Krumeich, J. Perez-Ramirez, *ChemCatChem* **2019**, *11*, 2812–2820.
- [28] a) C. Zhuo, Y. A. Levendis, *J. Appl. Polym. Sci.* **2014**, *131*; b) K. M. Wyss, J. T. Li, P. A. Advincula, K. V. Bets, W. Chen, L. Eddy, K. J. Silva, J. L. Beckham, J. Chen, W. Meng, B. Deng, S. Nagarajaiah, B. I. Yakobson, J. M. Tour, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209621.
- [29] a) C. Liang, U. R. Gracida-Alvarez, E. T. Gallant, P. A. Gillis, Y. A. Marques, G. P. Abramo, T. R. Hawkins, J. B. Dunn, *Environ. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c03654)* **2021**, *55*, [14215–14224;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c03654) b) J. Barrio, A. Pedersen, J. Y. Feng, S. C. Sarma, M. N. Wang, A. Y. Li, H. Yadegari, H. Luo, M. P. Ryan, M. M. Titirici, I. E. L. Stephens, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [6023–6030;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA09560A) c) R.-M. Sun, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, K.-M. Fang, A.-J. Wang, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.10.144) Sci.* **2022**, *608*, [2100–2110.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.10.144)
- [30] G. Daniel, T. Kosmala, M. C. Dalconi, L. Nodari, D. Badocco, P. Pastore, A. Lorenzetti, G. Granozzi, C. Durante, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2020.137200) Acta* **2020**, *362*, 137200.
- [31] a) N. Leventis, *Polymers (Basel).* **2022**, *14*, 969; b) N. Leventis, C. Sotiriou-Leventis, N. Chandrasekaran, S. Mulik, Z. J. Larimore, H. B. Lu, G. Churu, J. T. Mang, *Chem. Mater.* **2010**, *22*, [6692–6710](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm102891d).
- [32] a) A. M. Saeed, P. M. Rewatkar, H. M. Far, T. Taghvaee, S. Donthula, C. Mandal, C. Sotiriou-Leventis, N. Leventis, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b01910)* **2017**, *9*, [13520–13536;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b01910) b) A. M. Saeed, C. A. Wisner, S. Donthula, H. M. Far, C. Sotiriou-Leventis, N. Leventis, *Chem. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, [4867–4877.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b02364)

- [33] N. Chandrasekaran, K. Selvakumar, V. Premkumar, S. Muthusamy, S. M. S. Kumar, R. Thangamuthu, *ACS [Sustainable](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b01440) Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, [9094–9103](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b01440).
- [34] T. K. Shruthi, M. S. Kumar, M. Arjunan, A. Pratap, N. Chandrasekaran, *[RSC](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA18494K) Adv.* **2015**, *5*, [93423–93432.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA18494K)
- [35] T. N. Kumar, S. Sivabalan, N. Chandrasekaran, K. L. Phani, *Chem. Commun.* **2015**, *51*, 1922–1925.
- [36] S. B. Barim, G. Raptapoulos, S. Rommel, M. Aindow, P. Paraskevopoulou, C. Erkey, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.141251) Acta* **2022**, *434*, 141251.
- [37] N. Husing, U. Schubert, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **1998**, *37*, 23–45.
- [38] R. G. Arnold, J. A. Nelson, J. J. Verbanc, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr50013a002) Rev.* **1957**, *57*, 47–76.
- [39] a) N. Leventis, *Polymers (Basel).* **2022**, *14*; b) A. Shundo, S. Yamamoto, K. Tanaka, *JACS Au* **2022**, *2*, [1522–1542;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00120) c) P. Lin, L. H. Meng, Y. D. Huang, L. Liu, D. P. Fan, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2015**, *324*, [784–790.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2014.11.038)
- [40] R. Jayakumar, S. Nanjundan, M. Prabaharan, *React. Funct. [Polym.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.reactfunctpolym.2004.12.008)* **2006**, *66*, [299–314](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.reactfunctpolym.2004.12.008).
- [41] N. Leventis, C. Chidambareswarapattar, D. P. Mohite, Z. J. Larimore, H. B. Lu, C. Sotiriou-Leventis, *J. Mater. Chem.* **2011**, *21*, [11981–11986.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c1jm11472g)
- [42] a) G. Raptopoulos, M. Papastergiou, D. Chriti, E. Effraimopoulou, T. Cendax, N. Samartzis, G. Mali, T. Ioannides, P. Gurikov, I. Smirnova, P. Paraskevopoulou, *Mater Adv* **2021**, *2*, [2684–2699;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0MA01025A) b) S. Mulik, C. Sotiriou-Leventis, N. Leventis, *Chem. Mater.* **2008**, *20*, [6985–6997](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm801428p).
- [43] L. Pazderski, E. Szlyk, J. Sitkowski, B. Kamienski, L. Kozerski, J. Tousek, R. Marek, *Magn. Reson. Chem.* **2006**, *44*, [163–170](https://doi.org/10.1002/mrc.1740).
- [44] H. Andersson, A. C. C. Carlsson, B. Nekoueishahraki, U. Brath, M. Erdelyi, *Annu. Rep. NMR [Spectrosc.](https://doi.org/10.1016/bs.arnmr.2015.04.002)* **2015**, *86*, 73–210.
- [45] a) M. Maggio, M. R. Acocella, G. Guerra, *RSC Adv.* **2016**, *6*, [105565–](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6RA23053A) [105572;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6RA23053A) b) L. Wei, F. Wu, D. Shi, C. Hu, X. Li, W. Yuan, J. Wang, J. Zhao, H. Geng, H. Wei, Y. Wang, N. Hu, Y. Zhang, *Sci. Rep.-Uk* **2013**, *3*, 2636.
- [46] M. Thommes, K. Kaneko, A. V. Neimark, J. P. Olivier, F. Rodriguez-Reinoso, J. Rouquerol, K. S. W. Sing, *Pure Appl. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2014-1117)* **2015**, *87*, 1051– [1069.](https://doi.org/10.1515/pac-2014-1117)
- [47] S. Brunauer, P. H. Emmett, E. Teller, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1938**, *60*, [309–319.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja01269a023)
- [48] E. P. Barrett, L. G. Joyner, P. P. Halenda, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja01145a126) Soc.* **1951**, *73*, 373– [380](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja01145a126).
- [49] a) A. Furlan, U. Jansson, J. Lu, L. Hultman, M. Magnuson, *J. [Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/27/4/045002) [Condens.](https://doi.org/10.1088/0953-8984/27/4/045002) Matter* **2015**, *27*, 045002; b) E. de Smit, B. M. Weckhuysen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2008**, *37*, [2758–2781](https://doi.org/10.1039/b805427d).
- [50] T. Marshall-Roth, N. J. Libretto, A. T. Wrobel, K. J. Anderton, M. L. Pegis, N. D. Ricke, T. V. Voorhis, J. T. Miller, Y. Surendranath, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5283.
- [51] P. Lazar, R. Mach, M. Otyepka, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2019**, *123*, [10695–10702](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b02163).

- [52] L. C. Bai, C. S. Hsu, D. T. L. Alexander, H. M. Chen, X. L. Hu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05268) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [14190–14199](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05268).
- [53] L. F. Lai, J. R. Potts, D. Zhan, L. Wang, C. K. Poh, C. H. Tang, H. Gong, Z. X. Shen, L. Y. Jianyi, R. S. Ruoff, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, [7936–7942](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee21802j).
- [54] a) W. Kicinski, S. Dyjak, W. Tokarz, *J. Power Sources* **2021**, *513*; b) S. H. Lee, J. Kim, D. Y. Chung, J. M. Yoo, H. S. Lee, M. J. Kim, B. S. Mun, S. G. Kwon, Y. E. Sung, T. Hyeon, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [2035–2045](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b11129).
- [55] Q. L. Wei, G. X. Zhang, X. H. Yang, R. Chenitz, D. Barham, L. J. Yang, S. Y. Ye, S. Knights, S. H. Sun, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b12666)* **2017**, *9*, 36944– [36954.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b12666)
- [56] C. H. Choi, C. Baldizzone, J. P. Grote, A. K. Schuppert, F. Jaouen, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, [12753–12757.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201504903)
- [57] Q. Zhang, X. Tan, N. M. Bedford, Z. Han, L. Thomsen, S. Smith, R. Amal, X. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4181.
- [58] H.-T. Lien, S.-T. Chang, P.-T. Chen, D. P. Wong, Y.-C. Chang, Y.-R. Lu, C.-L. Dong, C.-H. Wang, K.-H. Chen, L.-C. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4233.
- [59] R. K. Singh, R. Devivaraprasad, T. Kar, A. Chakraborty, M. Neergat, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0141506jes) [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0141506jes) Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F489–F498.
- [60] Z. Fahimi, O. Moradlou, A. Sabbah, K.-H. Chen, L.-C. Chen, M. Qorbani, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *436*, [135225](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.135225).
- [61] a) G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B.-A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734; b) J. Y. Cheon, T. Kim, Y. Choi, H. Y. Jeong, M. G. Kim, Y. J. Sa, J. Kim, Z. Lee, T.-H. Yang, K. Kwon, O. Terasaki, G.-G. Park, R. R. Adzic, S. H. Joo, *Sci. Rep.-UK* **2013**, *3*, 2715; c) J. Wang, W. Liu, G. Luo, Z. J. Li, C. Zhao, H. R. Zhang, M. Z. Zhu, Q. Xu, X. Q. Wang, C. M. Zhao, Y. T. Qu, Z. K. Yang, T. Yao, Y. F. Li, Y. Lin, Y. Wu, Y. D. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE02656D) Sci.* **2018**, *11*, [3375–3379](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE02656D); d) M. Mazzucato, L. Gavioli, V. Balzano, E. Berretti, G. A. Rizzi, D. Badocco, P. Pastore, A. Zitolo, C. Durante, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c13837) Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, [54635–54648;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.2c13837) e) F. Luo, A. Roy, M. T. Sougrati, A. Khan, D. A. Cullen, X. Wang, M. Primbs, A. Zitolo, F. Jaouen, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [14737–14747;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c03033) f) W.-K. Jo, S. Moru, D.-E. Lee, S. Tonda, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2020**, *531*, [147367](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2020.147367); g) Z. H. Li, H. Y. He, H. B. Cao, S. M. Sun, W. L. Diao, D. L. Gao, P. L. Lu, S. S. Zhang, Z. Guo, M. J. Li, R. J. Liu, D. H. Ren, C. M. Liu, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, J. K. Jiang, G. J. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *240*, [112–121](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.08.074).

Manuscript received: June 14, 2023 Revised manuscript received: July 31, 2023 Version of record online: August 28, 2023