---
source: Parkash - 2021 - Metal-organic framework derived ultralow-loading platinum-copper catalyst a highly active and durab.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 101.459s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:57:47.661396Z
---

## **PAPER**

Metal-organic framework derived ultralow-loading platinum-copper catalyst: a highly active and durable bifunctional electrocatalyst for oxygenreduction and evolution reactions

To cite this article: Anand Parkash 2021 Nanotechnology 32 325703

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/abfb9b) for updates and enhancements.

# You may also like

- [InP nanopore arrays for](/article/10.1088/0957-4484/27/7/075704) [photoelectrochemical hydrogen generation](/article/10.1088/0957-4484/27/7/075704) Qiang Li, Maojun Zheng, Bin Zhang et al. -
- [Boosting PEC performance of Si](/article/10.1088/1361-6528/aad7a0) [photoelectrodes by coupling bifunctional](/article/10.1088/1361-6528/aad7a0) [CuCo hybrid oxide cocatalysts](/article/10.1088/1361-6528/aad7a0) Yidan Wang, Wei Tian, Fengren Cao et al. -
- [Roadmap on solar water splitting: current](/article/10.1088/2399-1984/aa88a1) [status and future prospects](/article/10.1088/2399-1984/aa88a1) Sheng Chu, Wei Li, Yanfa Yan et al. -

Nanotechnology 32 (2021) 325703 (14pp)

https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/abfb9b

# Metal-organic framework derived ultralowloading platinum-copper catalyst: a highly active and durable bifunctional electrocatalyst for oxygen-reduction and evolution reactions

## Anand Parkash®

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shaanxi Normal University, Chang'an, West Street 620, Xi'an 710119, People's Republic of China

E-mail: anand@snnu.edu.cn

Received 14 February 2021, revised 14 April 2021 Accepted for publication 26 April 2021 Published 17 May 2021

#### **Abstract**

Electrocatalysts with high active oxygen reduction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) activities are key factors in renewable energy technologies. Unlike common strategies for adjusting the proportion of metal centers in a multi-metal organic framework (MOF), herein, we designed and synthesized bifunctional electrocatalysts using cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB)-capped ultra-low content platinum (Pt) ( $\leq$ 0.5 wt.% Pt) and copper (Cu) nanoparticles and doped on the surface of zinc-based MOF (Zn-MOF-74) and calcinated at 900 °C. According to the electrochemical activity, the Pt/Cu/NPC-900 exhibits superior catalytic activities towards both the ORR with the onset ( $E_0$ ) and half-wave ( $E_{1/2}$ ) potentials were 1.0 V and 0.89 V versus RHE, respectively, and OER ( $E_0 = 1.48$  V versus RHE and overpotential ( $\eta$ ) = 0.265 V versus RHE) in an alkaline electrolyte at ambient temperature. Also, Pt/Cu/NPC-900 catalyzes through a 4<sup>-</sup> electron process and exhibits superior stability. Such insightful findings, as well as a newly developed approach, provides rational design and synthesis of an economical and efficient strategy for bifunctional electrocatalyst development.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Keywords: fuel cell, bifunctional electrocatalyst, metal-organic frameworks, metal oxides, porous carbon, transition metals

(Some figures may appear in colour only in the online journal)

## 1. Introduction

Oxygen-based electrocatalysis such as oxygen reduction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is the basis of sustainable, economic, and efficient energy systems such as fuel cells [1–5]. However, the sluggish kinetics of the reaction, the excessively high potentials, and the increased oxygen electrocatalytic energy barriers caused by complex multielectron transfer pathways limit the practical applications of these technologies [6–8]. Therefore, efficient electrocatalysts

are required to improve their operating potential [9–11]. Electrocatalysts based on platinum group metals (PGMs), such as Pt, Ru, Ir, and Rh, are widely considered the most active catalysts for ORR and OER [12–15]. However, the main disadvantages are high cost, lack of dual functions, and poor stability, which hinder their applications [16–19]. Therefore, an urgent need to design a PGM-free or low-PGM earth-rich bifunctional catalyst with excellent activity, cost-effectiveness, superior durability, and preferential selectivity [20–23].

Over the past few decades, non-precious metals have been developed to replace or reduce the use of PGM catalysts [24–27]. In particular, transition metal-based catalysts (TMC) have proven to be effective bifunctional catalysts [28-31]. However, their poor conductivity [32], lack of active centers [33], and ease to agglomerate imply that their catalytic activity is reduced significantly [34-36]. Adding transition metals to a carbon matrix can modify the electronic structure efficiently [9, 37], add more defects as the active sites [5, 38], facilitate oxygen adsorption [11, 39], and increase catalytic activity [40-42]. Peng and co-workers [25] used melamine and aniline as nitrogen sources to synthesize transition metals (Fe, Co, Ni, Mn) based on PGM-free catalysts for the ORR activity. They concluded that the transition metals influence the final carbon structure, which affects the performance of M-N<sub>x</sub> active site centers. The findings indicate that the demetallation of the active site may be used as the Fenton reagent catalyst to catalyze OH formation. These material obstacles ionomer activity in electrodes. It is also possible that the metal nanoparticles clinging to the M-N<sub>x</sub> surface tended to migrate and aggregate into the large particles to decrease their surface energy [43-45]. As a result,  $M-N_x$  materials often suffered deactivation during continuous reactions [46–49]. For this reason, it is desirable to design electrocatalysts, which consist of transition metals along with the active metal, and the center remains in the M-N<sub>x</sub> network to reduce Fenton reactivity [50-53]. It is also remaining a great challenge to design M-N<sub>x</sub> with an excellent bifunctional activity using a low-cost facile synthetic approach with low PGM-contents [54-59].

Copper-based catalysts were reported to be active in methanol oxidation, photocatalytic methyl orange depollution, and CO oxidation reactions [4, 49]. However, they are seldom reported as bifunctional catalysts, especially ORR and OER. Cu-based nanoparticles embedded in carbon materials are active in electrocatalytic ORR [57–60]. The electron configuration of Cu can be adjusted by the ligands, which influences the catalytic performance. Noh et al carried out DFT calculations to identify the ORR mechanisms over copper-supported N-doped graphene. When the surface Cu was functionalized with O atoms, it exhibited enhanced ORR activity, which can be compared with the Pt(111) surface [60]. Bai et al found that the ORR activity can be enhanced by the combined effect of copper and nitrogen in a copper oxide/nitrogen-doped reduced graphene oxide catalyst [61]. Chen et al reported a ZIF-8 framework derived Cu-N/C electrocatalyst with  $N-Cu^{II}-Cu^{0}$  sites showing efficient ORR electrocatalysis [62]. These results indicate that Cu-N -C-based catalysts with Cu-N<sub>x</sub> sites might be efficient in ORR. Theoretically, Cu presents the second-highest electrical conductivity, which is beneficial to accelerating charge transfer and further enhance the catalytic activity. Nonetheless, the self-aggregation of Cu-based materials has limited their development [62–65].

Keeping this in mind, we explored the first time possibility of the preparation of CTAB-capped ultra-low Pt ( $\leq$ 0.5 wt.%) and Cu nanoparticles and encapsulated in the frame of Zn-based MOF-74 and pyrolyzed at 900 °C. The developed

electrocatalyst with extremely low Pt content nanoparticles and Cu nanoparticles is combined with a highly stable carbon carrier, which enhances catalytic activity and stability. Among the prepared catalysts, Pt/Cu-NPC-900 ( $E_{\rm o}$  1.01 V,  $E_{1/2}$  0.89 V,  $\Delta E$  0.59 V, and low OER overpotential 0.265 V versus RHE) exhibited significant electrocatalytic activity and stability in an alkaline solution that exceeded the commercial Pt/C and RuO<sub>2</sub> catalysts. Our synthetic approach can enable the formation of atomically dispersed metal sites embedded into porous carbon, allowing for the engineering of morphologies and structures with optimal active site formations; this improves the catalytic activity in practical applications in clean energy conversion and storage.

#### 2. Experimental section

## 2.1. Synthesis of CTAB capped Pt nanoparticles

For the synthesis of CTAB-capped Pt nanoparticles,  $0.266\,\mathrm{g}$  of chloroplatinic acid hexahydrate (H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O) dissolved in ethylene glycol (10 ml) and then stirred for  $0.5\,\mathrm{h}$ . After it,  $0.66\,\mathrm{g}$  of cetyltrimethylammonium-ammonium bromide (CTAB) was mixed, and the mixture was put at constant stirring in an oil bath for four h at 130 °C. The resulted product was kept for further use.

#### 2.2. Synthesis of CTAB capped Cu nanoparticles

For the synthesis of CTAB-capped Cu nanoparticles, 2.5 g Copper (II) nitrate hexahydrate (Cu(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O), and 0.66 g of CTAB dissolved in 150 ml of methanol and refluxed under air for three h. Next, the sample was centrifuged, cleaned three times with ethanol, and allowed to dry at 60 °C for 12 h.

## 2.3. Synthesis of Zinc-MOF-74 (Zn-MOF-74)

Typically,  $3.0\,\mathrm{g}$  of  $\mathrm{Zn}(\mathrm{NO_3})_2.6\mathrm{H_2O}$  and  $0.75\,\mathrm{g}$  of 2.5-dihydroxy terephthalic acid dissolved in 150 ml of methanol with stirred to get a homogenous mixture. Transferred the mixed solution into an autoclave (150 ml) and heated for 24 h at 100 °C. The product was centrifuged, washed three times with methanol, and dried at 80 °C overnight. Prepared Zn-MOF-74 contains 27.36 wt.% of Zn (scheme 1).

## 2.4. Synthesis of CTAB/Zn-MOF-74

Typically,  $3.5\,\mathrm{g}$  of Zn-MOF-74 as prepared dissolved in 50 ml methanol and  $0.5\,\mathrm{h}$  sonicated.  $0.66\,\mathrm{g}$  of CTAB dissolved in a mixture of two solvents (9.6 ml of  $\mathrm{H_2O}$  and  $0.4\,\mathrm{ml}$  of methanol) separately and added dropwise in a solution of Zn-MOF-74. The final solution was sonicated (10 min) and refluxed at 35 °C for 14 h. CTAB/Zn-MOF-74 contains 5 wt. % Zn.

## 2.5. Synthesis of Pt/Zn-MOF-74

Typically, 3.5 g of Zn-MOF-74 as prepared dissolved in 50 ml methanol and 0.5 h sonicated. 1 ml of CTAB-capped Pt

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** Scheme for the 3-steps strategy used to synthesize electrocatalysts consisting of low PGM and PGM free doped carbons derived from a Zn-MOF-74 template.

nanoparticles dissolved in a mixture of two solvents (9.6 ml of  $\rm H_2O$  and 0.4 ml of methanol) separately and added dropwise in a solution of Zn-MOF-74. The final solution was sonicated 10 min and refluxed at 35 °C for 14 h. As prepared, the Pt/Zn-MOF-74 sample contains 0.35 wt.% of Pt (scheme 1).

## 2.6. Synthesis of Cu<sub>x</sub>/Zn-MOF-74

Typically, 3.5 g of Zn-MOF-74 as prepared dissolved in 50 ml methanol and 0.5 h sonicated. Different contents of asprepared Cu nanoparticles (0.5, 1, and 1.5 g) dissolved in two solvents (9.6 ml of H2O and 0.4 ml of methanol) separately and added dropwise in a solution of Zn-MOF-74. The final solution was sonicated 10 min and refluxed at 35 °C for 14 h. Cu<sub>x</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (X = 3.0, 7.0) and 10.6 wt.% Cu, respectively. For the synthesis of Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74, we followed the same method except for the addition of 1 ml of CTAB-capped Pt NPs and 1.5 g of CTAB-capped Cu NPs. Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 contains 0.16 wt.% Pt, 10.3 wt.% Cu and 12 wt.% Zn.

## 2.7. Pyrolysis process

The pyrolysis treatment was performed on a tubular furnace by placing 0.50 g of various prepared samples Zn-MOF-74, CTAB/Zn-MOF-74, Pt/Zn-MOF-74, Cu<sub>x</sub>/Zn-MOF-74, and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 on a ceramic boat and heated at 900 °C (5 °C min<sup>-1</sup>), under nitrogen environment (20 ml min<sup>-1</sup>) for 3 h. Obtained product were named as PC-900, NPC-900, Pt/NPC-900, Cu<sub>x</sub>/NPC-900, and Pt/Cu/NPC-900, respectively.

## 3. Results and discussion

#### 3.1. XRD characterization

The XRD patterns of the  $Cu_x/Zn$ -MOF-74 and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 as-synthesized are in agreement with the simulated patterns of the Cu/Zn-MOF-74 structure, as shown in figure 1(a), demonstrating their strong crystallinity and purity and confirming that the Cu nanoparticle doping did not affect the MOF intrinsic structure. The corresponding materials of Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 show identical XRD patterns to

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 1. (a) XRD patterns of Cu3%/Zn-MOF-74, Cu7%/Zn-MOF-74, Cu11%/Zn-MOF-74, and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74, (b) Zn-MOF-74, CTAB/Zn-MOF-74, and Pt/Zn-MOF-74, (c) XRD patterns of Cu3%/NPC-900, Cu7%/NPC-900, Cu11%/NPC-900, and Pt/Cu/NPC-900, (d) PC-900, NPC-900, and Pt/NPC-900.

Cux/Zn-MOF-74 after ultra-low Pt doping, suggesting that the MOF structure can be well preserved by doping CTABcaped Pt nanoparticles (figure 1(a)). The XRD patterns of Cux/Zn-MOF-74 and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 nanocomposites showed a typical pattern with the occurrence of three major peaks at 7.3°, 9.9°, and 11.1°. This provides evidence that the introduction of Pt and Cu nanoparticles does not damage the structure. The decrease of the peak intensity corresponding is probably due to some distortion of pores because of filling of pores with nanoparticles [[22,](#page-12-0) [60](#page-13-0)]. There are no peaks corresponds to Pt, which may be due to the low Pt loading or very high Pt dispersion in the catalysts. The patterns align with the increasing copper ratio, but the peaks' intensities are much lower for the bimetallic samples. This is because of the distortion of the precursor structure by introducing the second metal [[30](#page-12-0), [37](#page-13-0)].

Figure 1(b) shows the XRD patterns of the Zn-MOF-74, CTAB/Zn-MOF-74, and Pt/Zn-MOF-74 materials. All these patterns coincided with those of the parent Zn-MOF-74 and are in perfect agreement with the simulated one, which shows that these are in a pure phase, which confirmed that the morphology was retained. All members are isostructural, suggesting that the deposition of CTAB and Pt nanoparticles do not affect the structure. No apparent Pt peak was observed. This phenomenon is explained by the fact that Pt nanoparticles are ultra-fine and have strong dispersion on the surface of MOF, suggesting that deposition of Pt has little effect on its size.

Figure 1(c) shows the XRD patterns of the Cux/NPC-900 and Pt/Cu/NPC-900, these patterns are showing same traits at 2θ = 32.5°, 35.6°, 46.3°, 48.7°, 53.5°, 58.4°, 61.6°, 65.8°, 66.3°, 72.5°, and 75.3° corresponded to the (110), (-111), (111), (−112), (−202), (020), (202), (-113), (022), (−311), (220), (311), and (−222) lattice of CuO (PDF#48-1548). The sharp peaks at 43.4°, 50.6°, and 74.3° are assigned to the cubic phase of Cu (PDF#85-1326) are corresponds to (111), (200), and (220), suggesting that partial formation of metallic Cu (figure 1(c)). The peaks at 29.7°, 36.6° and, 42.5° correspond to (110), (111), and (200) lattice Cu2O (PDF#74- 1230) (figure 1(c)). The characteristics peaks at 32.1° and 57.2° corresponded to the (100) and (110) lattice in ZnO (PDF#75-1526) (figure 1(c)). It is noted that the patterns of Cu<sub>2</sub>O are strong, indicating that there is no content of an impurity phase. The calcination makes the diffraction peaks of Cu<sub>2</sub>O and Cu strong, revealing that Cu<sub>2</sub>O and Cu nanoparticles in the sample were almost increased during calcination. At a higher annealing temperature (900 °C), the peak becomes sharp, suggesting that the particle size increases with the increase in the temperature [3, 63].

Figure 1(d) shows the XRD patterns of PC-900, NPC-900, and Pt-NPC-900; there are some additional peaks at 26.3°, and 40.9° corresponds to 002 and (100) graphitic carbon (pdf#25-0284). The XRD patterns of calcined samples show almost the same characteristic peaks at about  $2\theta = 32.1^{\circ}, 34.5^{\circ}, 36.5^{\circ}, 47.8^{\circ}, 57.2^{\circ}, 63.1^{\circ}, 67.1^{\circ}, 68.5^{\circ},$  $69.2^{\circ}$ ,  $72.8^{\circ}$ , and  $77.4^{\circ}$  correspond to the (100), (002), (101), (102), (110), (103), (200), (112), (201), (004), and (202) lattices for ZnO (PDF#75-1526). By increasing the calcination temperature, the carbon peaks are clearly enhanced. This result indicated that the extent of crystallinity and graphitization increased with the growth and catalysis of Cu particles at higher temperatures. As the temperature increases, the peak becomes more pronounced, which means that as the temperature increases, the crystallinity may be increased [5, 16]. No obvious Pt-corresponding signal was found in the XRD patterns, which may be due to a low Pt content. However, the presence of Pt in the sample can be seen from the EDX spectra (figure S1 (available online at stacks.iop.org/NANO/ 32/325703/mmedia)).

## 3.2. Specific surface area characterization

The N<sub>2</sub> adsorption and desorption properties of the synthesized materials were studied via the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) measurements, along with the physical properties, i.e. specific surface area, pore-volume, and mean pore diameter (table S1, figure S2). The isotherm exhibits a hybrid form IV with an H1 hysteresis loop with uniform mesoporosity according to the international union of pure and applied chemistry (IUPAC). The specific surface area measured for Zn-MOF74 and PC-900 are 1473  $m^2$   $g^{-1}$  (figure S2(a)) and 1266 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (figure S2(b)), respectively (table S1), these are higher compared to CTAB-Zn-MOF-74 (1230 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> figure S2(c)), NPC-900 (1177 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> figure S2(d)), Pt/Zn-MOF-74  $(1198 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1} \text{ figure S2(e)}), \text{ Pt/NPC-900} (1138 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1} \text{ figure})$  $\begin{array}{cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc$  $\text{Cu}_{3\%}$ -NrC-900 (655 m g figure S2(i)),  $\text{Cu}_{7\%}$ /Zn-MOF-74 (590 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> figure S2(i)),  $\text{Cu}_{7\%}$ -NPC-900  $(569 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1} \text{ figure S2(j)}), \text{ Cu}_{11\%}/\text{Zn-MOF-74} (632 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1})$ figure S2(k)),  $Cu_{11\%}$ -NPC-900 (543 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> figure S2(l)), Pt/ Cu/Zn-MOF-74 (695 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> figure S2(m)), and Pt/Cu-NPC-900 (621  $\text{m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1}$  figure S2(n)), respectively. The specific surface area dramatically decreased after the deposition of CTAB, Pt, Cu, and Pt-Cu particles. However, a small deviation was observed for the pyrolyzed samples, although this deviation is due to the evaporation of Zn at 900 °C. Generally, the Pt, Cu, and Pt-Cu particles tended to aggregate, which could explain the marginal deviation of the specific surface area. The average pore size of all samples is in the range of 1.6-5.6 nm. These results suggest that all the samples display microporous-mesoporous structures. The pore width of Pt/Cu/NPC-900 is 5.6 nm, higher than other prepared catalysts (table S1). The Pt, Cu single atoms and Pt-Cu particles deposited on Zn-MOF-74, the surface area rapidly decrease. Simultaneously, the pore width slightly increases, indicating the Pt, Cu single atoms, and Pt-Cu particles deposited on the surface uniformly and did not block connected channels. The rich voids, open pore structure, and large surface area of Zn-MOF-74 can benefit to the plentiful deposition of Pt. Cu nanoparticles onto the carbon, leading to a favorable surface area prepared doped materials in this study like Cu<sub>x</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74. The distribution of pores may benefit from the exposure of more abundant catalytic active sites and improved mass transfer during the electrochemical reactions [60–62]. At the carbonization temperature of 900 °C, the slight decrease in specific surface area and pore volume can be attributed to the rapid evaporation of zinc and agglomeration of nanoparticles. Evaporation of a large amount of zinc resulting in a hierarchical interconnected pore structure by generating many pores [20, 45]. The corresponding depletion of specific surface area and micropores during pyrolysis can be due to pore collapse [63-65]. The high specific surface area and unique mesoporous structure of the Pt/Cu/NPC-900 (figure S2(n)) would undoubtedly reveal more accessible active sites, provide a convenient way to mass transfer, and further boost catalytic performance [66–68].

#### 3.3. TEM and HRTEM characterization

TEM and HRTEM were examined for the morphology and particle size distribution of the designed nanocatalyst. TEM micrographs (figures 2, S18–S23) demonstrate that the catalysts are uniformly distributed. Regarding the mean size of the Pt/Zn-MOF-74 (3.12 nm, figure S20(e)), Pt-NPC-900 (4.65 nm, figure S20(f)), Cu<sub>3%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (4.29 nm, figure Cu<sub>3%</sub>-NPC-900 (4.65 nm,figure  $Cu_{7\%}/Zn$ -MOF-74 (3.17 nm, figure S22(e)),  $Cu_{7\%}$ -NPC-900 (3.21 nm, figure S22(f)), Cu<sub>11%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (3.64 nm, figure S23(e)), Cu<sub>11%</sub>-NPC-900 (4.16 nm, figure S23(f)), Pt/Cu/ Zn-MOF-74 (2.43 nm, figure 2(e)), and Pt/Cu/NPC-900 (2.13 nm, figure 2(f)), respectively. The average size is about 5 nm, which is much smaller than the reported Zn-based MOFs. The metal ratio does not affect the size of nanoparticles significantly. The average particle sizes that TEM obtains are very similar to each other. The average size of metal particles is greatly influenced only by the annealing temperature. The particle size increased for samples annealed at 900 °C, indicating a wider distribution of particle size and wider than non-pyrolyzed samples; these are still relatively small. The crystal structure of specific nanostructures was studied by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM). The unique lattice fringes shown in the HRTEM images (figures 2, S18–S23) indicate that the prepared MOF has excellent crystallinity. The interplanar spacing of Zn-MOF-74 and PC-900 were determined to be 0.245 and 0.260 nm, respectively, ascribed as (101) and (002) planes of ZnO with a face-centered cubic (fcc) structure (PDF#75-

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 2. (a), (c) TEM, (b), (d) HRTEM images, and (e), (f) particle size distributions of Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 and Pt/Cu/NPC-900, respectively.

1526) (figure S18). The interplanar spacing of CTAB/Zn-MOF-74 and NPC-900 were determined to be 0.270 nm and 0.210 nm of Zn<sub>2</sub>O (figure S19), Pt/Zn-MOF-74 and Pt/NPC-900 with 0.221 nm and 0.213 nm (figure S20), 0.231 nm of CuO (200) for Cu<sub>3%</sub>/Zn-MOF-7, 0.232 nm of CuO (111) for Cu<sub>3%</sub>-NPC-900 (figure S21), 0.231 nm of CuO (200) for both Cu<sub>7%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 and Cu<sub>7%</sub>/NPC-900 (figure S22), 0.232 nm of CuO (111) for Cu<sub>11%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74, 0.231 nm of CuO (200) for Cu<sub>11%</sub>/NPC-900 (figure S23), the interplanar spacing of Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 were determined to be 0.151 nm and 0.232 nm of Cu<sub>2</sub>O (220) and CuO (111), respectively (figures 2(a), (b)). The interplanar spacing of the

Pt/Cu/NPC-900 is 0.231 nm of CuO (200) (figures 2(c), (d)). According to previous studies, the interfacial impact can be expected not only to improve the activity of the catalyst but also to significantly improve the stability of the Pt Cu [67–69].

Individual nanoparticles porously constitute the structures of the hybrid MOFs. The formation of nanoparticles and porous surfaces is due to the release of gas molecules during the calcination process. The electrolyte can more effectively contact the material, and these holes also shorten the channels in the electrolyte, making the electrode materials more electrochemically active [70–72]. After carbonizing the

nanoparticles on the MOF under a nitrogen atmosphere, ligands are converted into graphite carbon layers. The central metal ion of the MOF is transformed into a uniform distribution with a diameter of 2-5 nm and embedded in the graphite carbon layer in situ, making it difficult to escape from the hybrid during OER and ORR [73-75]. These results indicate that nanoparticles are formed and well wrapped by the graphene layer [76–79]. The addition of CTAB as a reduction agent and capping agent significantly reduces the ability of mesoporous nanostructures. It extremely inhibits the reduction rate, which is a major explanation for the evolution of mesoporous nanostructures. These results show that nanoparticles are formed, and the graphene layer is well encapsulated. This interaction between carbon matrix and nanoparticles is expected to minimize the agglomeration of nanoparticles, thereby enhancing the transportation of electrons and materials and enhancing the catalyst stability [5, 12, 27].

#### 3.4. XPS characterization

Furthermore, x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed to analyze the chemical composition and element valence of catalysts (figures 3, S25–S30). The XPS survey spectrum of Pt/Cu-NPC-900 revealed the presence of C, N, O, Pt, Cu, and Zn elements (figure 3(a)). The estimated atomic percentage of carbon (C) is 59.69%, nitrogen (N) is 13.26%, oxygen (O) is 21.42%, copper (Cu) is 3.75%, zinc (Zn) is 1.61%, and Pt is 0.27%. These atomic percentages are close to those calculated by EDS analysis (figure S1). The C1s spectrum is divide into four peaks (figure 3(b)), corresponding to C-C=C (284.7 eV), C-C (284.9 eV), C-N -C (286.9 eV), and C=O (290.6 eV), suggesting N doped into the carbon skeleton. Pyridine-N (398.8 eV), pyrrole-N (399.7 eV), and graphite-N (401.3 eV) can be assigned to the three peaks of N 1 s (figure 3(c)). The presence of the C-N-C bond implies that N atoms are successfully bonded to the graphite carbon material. The N doped in the carbon framework can hinder the agglomeration of nanoparticles through metal and nitrogen atoms, thus improving nanoparticle dispersion and reducing particle size. As previously stated, the N-doped graphene substratum is more favorable than the n-doped graphene sheet for the improvement of the supported catalyst. The O1s spectrum can be deconvoluted into two peaks at 531.9 and 533.6 eV, linked to the C-O bond and the O-O bond, respectively, (figure 3(d)). In the Zn2p peaks at 1022.5 eV and 1045.7 eV belong respectively to  $Zn^{2+}$   $2P_{3/2}$ and  $2p_{1/2}$ . In the Cu2p spectra, the Cu<sup>+</sup>  $2P_{3/2}$  and Cu<sup>2+</sup>  $2p_{1/2}$ peaks are 932.9 eV, 934.2 eV, 954.0 eV, and 942.4 eV, respectively. The peak at 962.7 eV is the satellite peak, which corresponds to the high-spin Cu<sup>2+</sup> ion. figures S25–S30 show XPS spectra of Zn-MOF-74, CTAB/Zn-MOF-74, Pt/Zn-MOF-74, Cu<sub>x</sub>/Zn-MOF-74, and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74. The atomic ratio can be inferred to alter slightly from the predicted atomic ratio and the EDX with XPS analysis.

## 3.5. ORR analysis

First, cyclic voltammetry (CV) was carried out to evaluate the electrocatalytic activity of the catalysts in N<sub>2</sub> and O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (figures 4, S31). All the catalysts are exhibiting strong peaks and redox reactions. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was carried by using RDE measurements at 1600 rpm in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH (figure 4(a)). The Pt/ Cu/NPC-900 has the superior catalytic activity with onset potential  $(E_0 \ 1.0 \ V)$  and half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2} \ 0.89 \ V)$ , respectively (table S2, figures 4(a), (v)). These all are superior than pure Zn-MOF-74 (0.85 and 0.74 V), PC-900 (0.87 and 0.76 V), CTAB/Zn-MOF-74 (0.88 and 0.72 V), NPC-900 (0.92 and 0.76 V), Pt/Zn-MOF-74 (0.89 and 0.78 V), Pt/ NPC-900 (0.91and 0.80 V), Cu<sub>3%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (0.93 and  $Cu_{3\%}/NPC-900$ (0.94) $0.81 \, \mathrm{V}),$ and 0.83 V), Cu<sub>7%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (0.96 and 0.85 V), Cu<sub>7%</sub>/NPC-900 (0.97 and 0.86 V),  $\text{Cu}_{11\%}/\text{Zn-MOF-74}$  (0.98 V and 0.87 V). Cu<sub>11%</sub>/NPC-900 (0.99 and 0.87 V), Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 (0.99 and 0.88 V), and commercial Pt/C (0.96 and 0.85 V), respectively. The Pt/Cu/NPC-900 has excellent activity due to its active bimetallic sites, wide surface area, a high degree of nitrogen doping with a conductive carbon skeleton [11, 22]. The Pt-Cu nanoparticles anchored structure has strong conductivity and can facilitate electron transport [5, 26].

The LSV was measured in O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH at different rotating speeds to study the electron transfer mechanisms further. The good linearity of the Koutecky –Levich (K−L) curves within the potential range (0.3–0.7 V) indicate that the kinetics of the first-order reaction is related to the concentration of dissolved oxygen. The Zn-MOF-74 (n = 1.8) and PC-900 (n = 2.8) show  $2e^{-}$  process. CTAB/ Zn-MOF-74 (n = 4), NPC-900 (n = 3.4), Pt/Zn-MOF-74 (n = 3.1), Pt/NPC-900 (n = 3.4), Cu<sub>3%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 ( n = 3.7),  $Cu_{3\%}/NPC-900$  ( n = 3.1),  $Cu_{7\%}/Zn-MOF-74$ (n = 3.4),  $Cu_{7\%}/NPC-900$  (n = 3.8),  $Cu_{11\%}/Zn-MOF-74$ (n = 4),  $Cu_{11\%}/NPC-900$  (n = 3.9), Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74(n = 4), and Pt/Cu/NPC-900 (n = 4.1) show 4e<sup>-</sup> process. Value of n of Pt/Cu/NPC-900 (n = 4.1) is better than the Pt/ C (n = 3.8). These results show that the catalyst Pt/Cu/NPC-900 has kinetics of the first-order reaction and a suitable four channel of electrons in ORR. The four-electron pathway describes an optimal mechanism for reducing oxygen. The reaction can be expressed as  $O_2 + 2H_2O + 4e^- \rightarrow 4OH^-$ , where the molecule of oxygen (O2) is reduced directly to OH<sup>-</sup>. The 4<sup>-</sup> electron pathway is a good way to reduce electrocatalytic oxygen, as it does not produce additional byproducts (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>). The 4e<sup>-</sup> pathway of our catalysts may be due to the synergistic effect of Pt-Cu nanoparticles and special open structures; these greatly improve the ability to avoid poisoning.

## 3.6. OER analysis

The OER activity of all prepared catalysts and commercial Pt/C and RuO<sub>2</sub> was studied using LSV in N<sub>2</sub> saturated 0.1 M KOH at an electrode speed of 1600 rpm (figures 5(a), (b)). Pt/

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 3. (a) XPS survey spectrum of Pt/Cu/NPC-900, the insert pi chart illustrates atomic percentages of constituent elements; (b)–(g) high-resolution spectra of C 1 s, N 1 s, O1s, Pt 4 f, Cu 2p, and Zn 2p for Pt/Cu/NPC-900, respectively.

Cu/NPC-900 exhibits very low overpotential ( $\eta$ ) (265 mV), compare to Zn-MOF-74 (464 mV), PC-900 (483 mV), CTAB/Zn-MOF-74 (472 mV), NPC-900 (504 mV), Pt/Zn-MOF-74 (467 mV), Pt/NPC-900 (487 mV), Cu<sub>3%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (407 mV), Cu<sub>3%</sub>/NPC-900 (393 mV), Cu<sub>7%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (374 mV), Cu<sub>7%</sub>/NPC-900 (362 mV), Cu<sub>11%</sub>/Zn-MOF-74 (342 mV), Cu<sub>11%</sub>/NPC-900 (330 mV), and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 (313 mV) samples. The Pt/Cu/NPC-900 exhibits a very smaller  $\eta$  (265 mV) compared to Pt/C (564 mV) as well as RuO<sub>2</sub> (276 mV) (table S3, figures 5(a), (b)). The findings above show that the porous carbon and

bimetal catalyst composites have better electrocatalytic efficiency than single metals, which is of great importance to cathode catalysts. The introduction of metal ions changed the local electronic structure, provided more active sites, created a volatile electronic environment to form more valence states, and enhanced the electron transfer capability of catalysts, all of which contributed to improved catalytic efficiency [6, 15].

The electrocatalytic activities of the prepared electrocatalyst for the OER were further investigated by calculating  $E_{\rm o}$  at j = 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, at 0–0.6 V. The Pt/Cu/NPC-900 exhibits superior performance with the lowest OER  $E_{\rm o}$  of

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 4.** ORR analyzes: (a) LSV plots of all prepared catalysts as well as Pt/C at the scan rate of  $10 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$  with the rotating rate of 1600 rpm, (b) comparison of electron transferred number (n) of prepared as Pt/C catalysts, (c) CV curves of Pt/Cu/NPC-900 in  $O_2$  and  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH, (d) LSV plots of  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH, (d) LSV plots of  $O_2$ -saturated at deferent potentials (0.3–0.7 V versus RHE), and (f) LSV curves of  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at  $O_2$ -saturated at

 $\begin{array}{llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll$ 

The Pt/Cu/NPC-900 with a very small ( $\Delta E = 0.59 \text{ V}$  versus RHE) (table S2, figure 5(d)), exhibits excellent

bifunctional activities compare to Zn-MOF-74 (0.96 V), PC-900 (0.96 V), CTAB/Zn-MOF-74 (0.98 V), NPC-900 (0.97 V), Pt/Zn-MOF-74 (0.93 V), Pt/NPC-900 (0.95 V), Cu $_{3\%}$ /Zn-MOF-74 (0.76 V), Cu $_{3\%}$ /NPC-900 (0.75 V), Cu $_{7\%}$ /Zn-MOF-74 (0.74 V), Cu $_{7\%}$ /NPC-900 (0.75 V), Cu $_{11\%}$ /Zn-MOF-74 (0.75 V), Cu $_{11\%}$ /NPC-900 (0.77 V), and Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74 (0.66 V) samples (figure 5(d), table S3). From the series of synthesized and commercial catalysts, the Pt/Cu/NPC-900 exhibited superior bifunctionality compared to the most ORR and OER bifunctional catalysts (tables S4–

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 5.** (a), (b) OER polarization curves of various catalysts as well as Pt/C and RuO<sub>2</sub> under N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH at Scan rate:  $5 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$  (c) Scan rate dependence of the current density at 1.13 V versus RHE for various catalysts, (d) the bifunctional ORR/OER activity is evaluated by the potential difference ( $\Delta E$ ) between the have-wave potential for the ORR and the overpotential at the 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for the OER

S5). The main reason for its excellent electrocatalytic activity is the active binary center and the high BET specific surface area of layered porous structure [2, 7, 35]. This study also showed the effects of Cu contents, catalyst with 11% Cu and calcinated at 900 oC (Cu11%/NPC-900) has superior activity compared to a commercial one. This may be due to copper oxides, high surface area, and more active sites.

Long-term stability is the main factor in evaluating electrocatalyst efficiency. The chronoamperometry is often used to determine the ORR stability of catalyst in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 0.69 V (figures 6(a), S32). As shown in figure 6(a), using our proposed Pt/Cu/ NPC-900 catalyst has a relative current of about 98.5% and still exists after 10 h of testing, which results in a slight decrease in performance with a higher current retention rate. Commercial Pt/C (20 wt.%) retains only 72% of its initial current. These results prove the relationship between composition and stability [22, 45]. The OER durability of the most active catalyst (Pt/Cu/NPC-900) and two commercially available catalysts (Pt/C and RuO<sub>2</sub>) was tested using a CV curve recorded at 1000 cycles, and then LSV curve recorded at 1600 rpm in O<sub>2</sub> saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (figures 6(b)–(d)). After 1000th cycle, the Pt/Cu/NPC-900 exhibits superior activity compared to Pt/C and RuO<sub>2</sub> (figures 6(b)-(d)). This confirms that Pt/Cu/NPC-900 has excellent OER electrochemical stability after 1000 CV cycles than the catalysts of the prior art. As illustrated in figure 6(b), the Pt/Cu/NPC-900 electrode LSV curve almost overlaps with that of the initial cycle, demonstrating its excellent durability. The good stability of the Pt/Cu/NPC-900 may be attributed to the incorporation of Cu and Pt nanoparticles into the porous structures that could effectively promote electrical conductivity and provide new active sites [33, 52]. In addition, the unusual porous structure with a wide surface area enables the accessibility of active sites, gas release, and mass transportation provides a driving force for accelerating activities [36, 56]. The electrocatalytic activity of catalysts increased as Cu content increased (figures 5-6). Compared with Pt/C and RuO2, the Cu-based prepared catalysts exhibited better activity. The Pt/Cu/NPC-900 exhibits the optimal balance between the ORR and OER activities and thus provides a better bifunctional activity compared to commercial Pt/C and RuO2 catalysts and all MOF-derived catalysts [4, 80, 81] as well as other noble-metal-free materials recorded to date (tables S4 and S8). The superior property of Pt/Cu/NPC-900 is due to its bimetallic active sites, wide surface area, conductive carbon skeleton, etc. The CTAB-capped Pt-Cu nanoparticles anchored system has strong conductivity and is convenient for electronic transmission result in superior activity. Similarly, our synthetic

<span id="page-11-0"></span>Figure 6. (a) Chronoamperometric responses of Pt/Cu/Zn-MOF-74, Pt/Cu/NPC-900 and Pt/C and (b)–(d) LSV curves recorded before and after 1000th cycles of CVs (b) Pt/Cu/NPC-900, (c) Pt/C and (d) RuO2 catalysts in an N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. Scan rate: 5 mVs<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , temperature: 25 °C.

approach helps to improve the catalytic activity of Pt/Cu-NPC-900. The porous structure also facilitates the large-scale transportation of reactive materials in the catalytic cycle, allowing fast and sustainable reactions. The strong interfacial coupling between nanoparticles embedded in situ and an external carbon matrix could further increase the catalysts for conductivity.

# 4. Conclusions

This study mainly focused on utilizing MOF-74 as a host matrix for immobilizing metal nanoparticles (MNPs) and the use of the fabricated MNP@MOF composites as bifunctional catalysts for ORR and OER. To the best of our knowledge, the first time, the possibility for developing CTAB-capped non-noble metal-based (Cu NPs), ultra-low noble metallic (Pt NPs), and bimetallic alloy (Pt−Cu NPs) were successfully encapsulated on the surface of Zn-MOF-74 and pyrolyzed at 900 °C. The designed electrocatalysts with ultra-low Pt contents and Cu NPs coupled with highly stable carbon support result in enhanced bifunctional electrochemical activity and superior stability. Among the prepared catalysts, the Pt/Cu-NPC-900 (E<sup>o</sup> 1.01 V, E1/<sup>2</sup> 0.89 V, ΔE 0.59 V and overpotential 0.265 V versus RHE) exhibited promising electrocatalytic activity and superior durability in alkaline solutions superior to the state-of-the-art Pt/C (E<sup>o</sup> 0.96 V, E1/<sup>2</sup> 0.85 V, ΔE 0.96 V and overpotential 0.564 V versus RHE) and RuO2 (overpotential 0.272 V versus RHE) electrocatalysts. The cutting-edge results obtained reported the highest activity. To the best of our knowledge, this obtained activity is the highest for supported Pt, Cu, and Pt−Cu-based catalysts, that have been ever reported for ORR and OER. Therefore, making the first landmark of its time.

# Data availability statement

All data that support the findings of this study are included within the article (and any supplementary files).

# ORCID iDs

Anand Parkash [https:](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7262-6721)//orcid.org/[0000-0001-7262-6721](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7262-6721)

# References

[1] Agarwal S, Yu X and Manthiram A 2020 A pair of metalorganic framework (MOF)-derived oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER)

- catalysts for zinc-air batteries *Mater. Today Energy* **16** 100405
- <span id="page-12-0"></span>[2] Alduhaish O, Ubaidullah M, Al-Enizi A M, Alhokbany N, Alshehri S M and Ahmed J 2019 Facile synthesis of mesoporous alpha-Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>@g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>-NCs for efficient bifunctional electroatalytic activity (OER/ORR) Sci. Rep. 9 14139
- [3] Amer M S, Arunachalam P, Ghanem M A, Al-Mayouf A M and Shar M A 2020 Enriched active surface structure in nanosized tungsten-cobalt oxides electrocatalysts for efficient oxygen redox reactions Appl. Surf. Sci. 513 145831
- [4] Amer M S, Ghanem M A, Arunachalam P, Al-Mayouf A M and Hadadi S M 2019 Bifunctional electrocatalyst of low-symmetry mesoporous titanium dioxide modified with cobalt oxide for oxygen evolution and reduction reactions Catalysts 9 836
- [5] Bai L, Duan Z, Wen X and Guan J 2019 Bifunctional atomic iron-based catalyst for oxygen electrode reactions *J. Catal.* 378 353–62
- [6] Bhatt M D and Lee J Y 2020 Advancement of platinum (Pt)-free (non-Pt precious metals) and/or metal-free (non-precious-metals) electrocatalysts in energy applications: a review and perspectives *Energy Fuels* 34 6634–95
- [7] Cao L, Shao Y, Pan H and Lu Z 2020 Designing efficient dual-metal single-atom electrocatalyst TMZnN<sub>6</sub> (TM = Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn) for the oxygen reduction reaction *J. Phys. Chem.* C 124 11301–7
- [8] Cao Y, Zheng X, Zhang H, Zhang J, Han X, Zhong C, Hu W and Deng Y 2019 Interface engineering of NiS<sub>2</sub>/CoS<sub>2</sub> nanohybrids as bifunctional electrocatalysts for rechargeable solid-state Zn-air battery J. Power Sources 437 226893
- [9] Chakrabarty S, Mukherjee A, Su W N and Basu S 2019 Improved bi-functional ORR and OER catalytic activity of reduced graphene oxide supported ZnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> microsphere *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy.* 44 1565–78
- [10] Chang Z, Yu F, Liu Z, Peng S, Guan M, Shen X, Zhao S, Liu N, Wu Y and Chen Y 2019 Co-Ni Alloy Encapsulated by N-doped graphene as a cathode catalyst for rechargeable hybrid Li-air batteries ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 4366–72
- [11] Chatterjee A and Or S W 2020 Metal-organic framework-derived MnO/CoMn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>@N-C nanorods with interstitial nanoparticle decoration in core@shell structure as improved bifunctional electrocatalytic cathodes for Li-O<sub>2</sub> batteries Electrochim. Acta 338 135809
- [12] Chen D, Yu J, Cui Z, Zhang Q, Chen X, Sui J, Dong H, Yu L and Dong L 2020 Hierarchical architecture derived from two-dimensional zeolitic imidazolate frameworks as an efficient metal-based bifunctional oxygen electrocatalyst for rechargeable Zn—air batteries *Electrochim. Acta* 331 135394
- [13] Chen Y, Peng J, Duan W, He G and Tang Z 2019 NiFe alloyed nanoparticles encapsulated in nitrogen doped carbon nanotubes for bifunctional electrocatalysis toward rechargeable Zn-air batteries *Chem. Cat. Chem.* 11 5994–6001
- [14] Cheng P, Wang C, Kaneti Y V, Eguchi M, Lin J, Yamauchi Y and Na J 2020 Practical MOF nano architectonics: new strategies for enhancing the processability of MOFs for practical applications *Langmuir* 36 4231–49
- [15] Dilpazir S et al 2020 Efficient tetra-functional electrocatalyst with synergetic effect of different active sites for multimodel energy conversion and storage CS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 23017–27
- [16] Ding J, Wang P, Ji S, Wang H, Linkov V and Wang R 2019 N-doped mesoporous FeN<sub>x</sub>/carbon as ORR and OER bifunctional electrocatalyst for rechargeable zinc-air batteries *Electrochim. Acta* 296 653–61

- [17] Fang D, Zhang H, He L, Geng J, Song W, Sun S, Shao Z and Yi B 2019 Facile synthesis of nanoporous Pt-encapsulated Ir black as a bifunctional oxygen catalyst via modified polyol process at room temperature ChemElectroChem 6 3633–43
- [18] Godínez-Salomón F, Albiter L, Mendoza-Cruz R and Rhodes C P 2020 Bimetallic two-dimensional nanoframes: high activity acidic bifunctional oxygen reduction and evolution electrocatalysts ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 3 2404–21
- [19] Gonell F, Sánchez-Sánchez C M, Vivier V, Méthivier C, Laberty-Robert C and Portehault D 2020 Structure-activity relationship in manganese perovskite oxide nanocrystals from molten salts for efficient oxygen reduction reaction electrocatalysis *Chem. Mater.* 32 4241–7
- [20] Gu Y, Yan G, Lian Y, Qi P, Mu Q, Zhang C, Deng Z and Peng Y 2019 MnIII-enriched α-MnO<sub>2</sub> nanowires as efficient bifunctional oxygen catalysts for rechargeable Zn-air batteries *Energy Stor. Mater.* 23 252–60
- [21] Gueskine V, Singh A, Vagin M, Crispin X and Zozoulenko I 2020 Molecular oxygen activation at a conducting polymer: electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction at PEDOT revisited, a theoretical study J. Phys. Chem. C 124 13263–72
- [22] Guo Q, Zhang C, Zhang C, Xin S, Zhang P, Shi Q, Zhang D and You Y 2020 Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> modified Ag/g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> composite as a bifunctional cathode for the lithium-oxygen battery *J. Energy Chem.* 41 185–93
- [23] Han C, Li W, Liu H K, Dou S and Wang J 2019 Design strategies for developing non-precious metal-based bifunctional catalysts for alkaline electrolyte-based zinc-air batteries *Mater. Horiz.* 6 1812–27
- [24] Han M, Shi M, Wang J, Zhang M, Yan C, Jiang J, Guo S, Sun Z and Guo Z 2019 Efficient bifunctional Co/N dualdoped carbon electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction and evolution reaction *Carbon* 153 575–84
- [25] Xinwen P et al 2019 Hierarchically porous carbon plates derived from wood as bifunctional ORR/OER electrodes Adv. Mater. 31 1900341
- [26] Hegde G S, Ghosh A, Badam R, Matsumi N and Sundara R 2020 Role of defects in low-cost perovskite catalysts toward ORR and OER in lithium-oxygen batteries ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 3 1338–48
- [27] Hyun S, Son B, Kim H, Sanetuntikul J and Shanmugam S 2020 The synergistic effect of nickel cobalt sulfide nanoflakes and sulfur-doped porous carbonaceous nanostructure as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for enhanced rechargeable Li-O<sub>2</sub> batteries Appl. Catal. B 263 118283
- [28] Jin Q, Ren B, Chen J, Cui H and Wang C 2019 A facile method to conduct 3D self-supporting Co-FeCo/N-doped graphene-like carbon bifunctional electrocatalysts for a flexible solid-state zinc-air battery Appl. Catal. B 256 117887
- [29] Jung E, Shin H, Hooch Antink W, Sung Y E and Hyeon T 2020 Recent advances in electrochemical oxygen reduction to H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>: catalyst and cell design ACS Energy Lett. 5 1881–92
- [30] Imran K, Ramaya K, Ghosh P C, Sarkar A and Rajalakshmi N 2019 Ion immobilized bifunctional electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction and evolution reaction ACS Energy Lett. 2 7811–22
- [31] Kabtamu D M, Wu Y N and Li F 2020 Hierarchically porous metal-organic frameworks: synthesis strategies, structure(s), and emerging applications in decontamination *J. Hazard. Mater.* 397 122765
- [32] Kosasang S, Ma N, Phattharasupakun N and Sawangphruk M 2019 Lithium intercalated-layered manganese oxide and reduced graphene oxide composite as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for ORR and OER J. Electrochem. Soc. 166 A1543-9

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>[33] Li H and Sui Z 2019 An in situ coupling strategy for the preparation of heterometal-doped carbon frameworks as efficient bifunctional ORR/OER electrocatalysts New J. Chem. 43 [17963](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9NJ04422A)–73
- [34] Li L, He J, Wang Y, Lv X, Gu X, Dai P, Liu D and Zhao X 2019 Metal-organic frameworks: a promising platform for constructing non-noble electrocatalysts for the oxygenreduction reaction J. Mater. Chem. A 7 [1964](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA11704G)–88
- [35] Li P, Tian C, Yang W, Zhao W and Lu Z 2019 LaNiO3 modified with Ag nanoparticles as an efficient bifunctional electrocatalyst for rechargeable zinc-air batteries Front. Mater. Sci. 13 [277](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11706-019-0474-z)–87
- [36] Li Y, Tong Y and Peng F 2020 Metal-free carbocatalysis for electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction: activity origin and mechanism J. Energy Chem. 48 [308](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.02.027)–21
- [37] Lionet Z, Nishijima S, Kim T H, Horiuchi Y, Lee S W and Matsuoka M 2019 Bimetallic MOF-templated synthesis of alloy nanoparticle-embedded porous carbons for oxygen evolution and reduction reactions Dalton Trans. 48 [13953](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9DT02943E)–9
- [38] Liu G, Wang B, Ding P, Wei W, Ye Y, Wang L, Zhu W, Li H and Xia J 2020 In-situ synthesis strategy for CoM (M = Fe, Ni, Cu) bimetallic nanoparticles decorated N-doped 1D carbon nanotubes/3D porous carbon for electrocatalytic oxygen evolution reaction J. Alloys Compd. 815 [152470](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2019.152470)
- [39] Lv B, Zeng S, Yang W, Qiao J, Zhang C, Zhu C, Chen M, Di J and Li Q 2019 In-situ embedding zeolitic imidazolate framework derived Co-N-C bifunctional catalysts in carbon nanotube networks for flexible Zn−air batteries J. Energy Chem. 38 [170](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2019.04.005)–6
- [40] Majidi L et al 2020 Highly active rhenium-, ruthenium-, and iridium-based dichalcogenide electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction and oxygen evolution reactions in aprotic media Chem. Mater. 32 [2764](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b04117)–73
- [41] Medina D, Barwe S, Masa J, Seisel S, Schuhmann W and Andronescu C 2019 Optimizing the synthesis of Co/Co-Fe nanoparticles/N-doped carbon composite materials as bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts Electrochim. Acta [318](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.06.048) [281](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.06.048)–9
- [42] Meng Y, Gao Y, Li K, Tang H, Wang Y and Wu Z 2020 FeRh and nitrogen codoped graphene, a highly efficient bifunctional catalyst toward oxygen reduction and oxygen evolution reactions J. Phys. Chem. C 124 [9142](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c00249)–50
- [43] Mohanty B, Jena B K and Basu S 2020 Single atom on the 2D matrix: an emerging electrocatalyst for energy applications ACS Omega 5 [1287](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b03515)–95
- [44] Mondal S, Mohanty B, Nurhuda M, Dalapati S, Jana R, Addicoat M, Datta A, Jena B K and Bhaumik A 2020 A Thiadiazole-based covalent organic framework: a metal-free electrocatalyst toward oxygen evolution reaction ACS Catal. 10 [5623](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b05470)–30
- [45] Nagaprasad Reddy S, Krishnamurthy C B and Grinberg I 2020 First-principles study of the ligand substituent effect on ORR catalysis by metallocorroles J. Phys. Chem. C [124](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b11990) [11275](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b11990)–83
- [46] Najam T, Wang M, Javed M S, Ibraheem S, Song Z, Ahmed M M, Rehman A, Cai X and Shah A 2020 Nanoengineering of Prussian blue analogues to core–shell architectures: enhanced catalytic activity for zinc-air battery J. Colloid Interf. Sci. [578](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2020.05.071) 89–95
- [47] Neaţu S et al 2020 Undoped SnO2 as a support for Ni species to boost oxygen generation through alkaline water electrolysis ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 [18407](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b19541)–20
- [48] Park S W, Shin H J and Kim D W 2019 S,N co-doped reduced graphene oxide sheets with cobalt hydroxide nanocrystals for highly active and stable bifunctional oxygen catalysts Inorg. Chem. Front. 6 [3501](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9QI01108K)–9
- [49] Parra-Puerto A, Ng K L, Fahy K, Goode A E, Ryan M P and Kucernak A 2019 Supported transition metal phosphides:

- activity survey for HER, ORR, OER, and corrosion resistance in acid and alkaline electrolytes ACS Cata. [9](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b03359) [11515](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b03359)–29
- [50] Pourfarzad H, Shabani-Nooshabadi M and Ganjali M R 2020 Novel bi-functional electrocatalysts based on the electrochemical synthesized bimetallicmetal organic frameworks: towards high energy advanced reversible zincair batteries J. Power Sources 451 [227768](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2020.227768)
- [51] Ran J, Guo X, Liu P, Peng S, Gao X and Gao D 2019 Bifunctional catalysts of CoNi nanoparticle-embedded nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes for rechargeable Zn-air batteries Nanotechnology 30 [435701](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/ab31bf)
- [52] Ruiz-Cornejo J C, Sebastián D, Martínez-Huerta M V and Lázaro M J 2019 Tantalum-based electrocatalysts prepared by a microemulsion method for the oxygen reduction and evolution reactions Electrochim. Acta 317 [261](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.05.145)–71
- [53] Samanta A, Ghatak A, Bhattacharyya S and Raj C R 2020 Transition metal alloy integrated tubular carbon hybrid nanostructure for bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysis Electrochim. Acta 348 [136274](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2020.136274)
- [54] Shen J, Gao J, Ji L, Chen X and Wu C 2019 Three-dimensional interlinked Co3O4-CNTs hybrids as novel oxygen electrocatalyst Appl. Surf. Sci. 497 [143818](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.143818)
- [55] Singh T, Das C, Bothra N, Sikdar N, Das S, Pati S K and Maji T K 2020 MOF derived Co3O4@Co/NCNT nanocomposite for electrochemical hydrogen evolution, flexible zinc-air batteries, and overall water splitting Inorg. Chem. 59 [3160](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b03516)–70
- [56] Sivakumar P, Subramanian P, Maiyalagan T, Gedanken A and Schechter A 2019 Ternary nickel cobalt manganese spinel oxide nanoparticles as heterogeneous electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution and oxygen reduction reaction Mater. Chem. Phys. [229](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchemphys.2019.03.017) [190](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matchemphys.2019.03.017)–6
- [57] Sofi F A, Bhat M A and Majid K 2019 Cu2<sup>+</sup>-BTC based metalorganic framework: a redox accessible and redox stable MOF for selective and sensitive electrochemical sensing of acetaminophen and dopamine New J. Chem. 43 [3119](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NJ06224B)–27
- [58] Speck F D, Santori P G, Jaouen F and Cherevko S 2019 Mechanisms of manganese oxide electrocatalysts degradation during oxygen reduction and oxygen evolution reactions J. Phys. Chem. C 123 [25267](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b07751)–77
- [59] Sun J, Du L, Sun B, Han G, Ma Y, Wang J, Huo H, Du C and Yin G 2020 Bifunctional LaMn0.3Co0.7O3 perovskite oxide catalyst for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions: the optimized electronic structures by manganese dopant ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 12 [24717](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c03983)–25
- [60] Noh S H, Kwak D H, Seo M H, Ohsaka T and Han B 2014 First principles study of oxygen reduction reaction mechanisms on Ndoped graphene with a transition metal support Electrochim. Acta 140 [225](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2014.03.076)–31
- [61] Bai L, Li M and Guan J 2018 Co(II) or Cu(II) Schiff Base Complex Immobilized onto Carbon Nanotubes as a Synergistic Catalyst for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction Chem. Sel. 3 [581](https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201702801)–5
- [62] Zhou R, Zheng Y, Hulicova-Jurcakova D and Qiao S Z 2013 Enhanced electrochemical catalytic activity by copper oxide grown on nitrogen-doped reduced graphene oxide J. Mater. Chem. A 1 [13179](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ta13299d)–85
- [63] Tripathy R K, Samantara A K and Behera J N 2019 A cobalt metal-organic framework (Co-MOF): a bi-functional electro active material for the oxygen evolution and reduction reaction Dalton Trans. 48 [10557](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9DT01730E)–64
- [64] Tsou Y H, Chuang Y Y and Chen J S 2020 Effect of surface bonding of FePC with electrospun carbon nanofiber on electrocatalytic performance for aprotic Li-O2 batteries J. Colloid Interface Sci. 562 [213](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.12.019)–23
- [65] Vilas Bôas N, Souza Junior J B, Varanda L C, Machado S A S and Calegaro M L 2019 Bismuth and cerium doped cryptomelane-type manganese dioxide

- nanorods as bifunctional catalysts for rechargeable alkaline metal-air batteries Appl. Catal. B-Environ. 258 [118014](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118014)
- <span id="page-14-0"></span>[66] Wang H, Zhou M, Choudhury P and Luo H 2019 Perovskite oxides as bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution/reduction reactions-A mini review Appl. Mater. Today. [16](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmt.2019.05.004) [56](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmt.2019.05.004)–[71](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apmt.2019.05.004)
- [67] Wang P, Lin Y, Wan L and Wang B 2019 Construction of a Janus MnO2-NiFe electrode via selective electrodeposition strategy as a high-performance bifunctional electrocatalyst for rechargeable zinc−air batteries ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 [37701](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b12232)–7
- [68] Wang Q, Xue Y, Sun S, Yan S, Miao H and Liu Z 2019 Facile synthesis of ternary spinel Co-Mn-Ni nanorods as efficient bifunctional oxygen catalysts for rechargeable zinc-air batteries J. Power Sources 435 [226761](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2019.226761)
- [69] Wang Z, Ang J, Zhang B, Zhang Y, Ma X Y D, Yan T, Liu J, Che B, Huang Y and Lu X 2019 FeCo/FeCoNi/N-doped carbon nanotubes grafted polyhedron-derived hybrid fibers as bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts for durable rechargeable zinc-air battery Appl. Catal. B-Environ. [254](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.04.027) [26](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.04.027)–[36](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.04.027)
- [70] Wu H, Wang J, Yan J, Wu Z and Jin W 2019 MOF-derived two-dimensional N-doped carbon nanosheets coupled with Co−Fe−P−Se as efficient bifunctional OER/ORR catalysts Nanoscale 11 [20144](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9NR05744G)–50
- [71] Wu S, Deng D, Zhou L, Zhang P and Tang G 2019 Flame retardancy and thermal degradation of rigid polyurethane foams composites based on aluminum hypophosphite Mater. Res. Express 6 [105365](https://doi.org/10.1088/2053-1591/ab41b2)
- [72] Xing Z et al 2019 Carbon-pore-sheathed cobalt nanoseeds: an exceptional and durable bifunctional catalyst for zinc-air batteries Nano Energy 65 [104051](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.104051)
- [73] Yang L, Wang D, Lv Y and Cao D 2019 Nitrogen-doped graphitic carbons with encapsulated CoNi bimetallic nanoparticles as bifunctional electrocatalysts for rechargeable Zn−air batteries Carbon [144](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.12.008) 8–14

- [74] Yang X, Wang X, Wang Y, Li K and Zheng H 2019 From molecules to carbon materials-high pressure induced polymerization and bonding mechanisms of unsaturated compounds Crystals 9 [490](https://doi.org/10.3390/cryst9100490)
- [75] Yi M, Zhang C, Cao C, Xu C, Sa B, Cai D and Zhan H 2019 MOF-derived hybrid hollow sub microspheres of nitrogendoped carbon-encapsulated bimetallic Ni−Co−S nanoparticles for supercapacitors and lithium ion batteries Inorg. Chem. 58 [3916](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.8b03594)–24
- [76] Yu C, Hao S, Lei L and Zhang X 2019 Synthesis of NiCo alloy nanoparticle-decorated B,N-doped carbon nanosheet networks via a self-template strategy for bifunctional oxygen-involving reactions ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. [7](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b04164) [14394](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b04164)–9
- [77] Yuan R, He Y, He W, Ni M and Leung M K H 2019 Bifunctional electrocatalytic activity of La0.8Sr0.2MnO3-based perovskite with the A-site deficiency for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions in alkaline media Appl. Energy 251 [113406](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.113406)
- [78] Zhang D, Zhang J, Gong L, Zhu Y, Zhang L and Xia Z 2019 Graphene-covered transition metal halide molecules as efficient and durable electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. [21](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CP04618F) [23094](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CP04618F)–101
- [79] Zheng F, Zhang Z, Zhang C and Chen W 2019 Advanced electrocatalysts based on metal-organic frameworks ACS Omega. 5 [2495](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.9b03295)–502
- [80] Zheng X, Zhang J, Wang J, Zhang Z, Hu W and Han Y 2019 Facile synthesis of nickel cobalt selenide hollow nanospheres as efficient bifunctional electrocatalyst for rechargeable Zn−air battery Sci. China Mater. 63 [347](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40843-019-1203-0)–55
- [81] Wu Y, Qiu X, Liang F, Zhang Q, Koo A, Dai Y, Yong L and Sun X 2018 A metal-organic framework-derived bifunctional catalyst for hybrid sodium−air batteries Appl. Catalysis B 241 [407](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.09.063)–14