---
source: Pei 等 - 2019 - Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction Reaction Performance Boosted by N, P Doped Carbon Layer over Mangan.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 32.418s
generated: 2026-01-09T12:59:06.829598Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction performance boosted by N, P doped carbon layer over manganese dioxide nanorod

**Authors:** Chengang Pei, Ruifu Ding, Xu Yu, and Ligang Feng

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemCatChem* 10.1002/cctc.201900886

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201900886

# **FULL PAPER**

# **Electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction performance boosted by N, P doped carbon layer over manganese dioxide nanorod**

Chengang Pei, [a] Ruifu Ding,[a] Xu Yu,[a] and Ligang Feng\* [a]

**Abstract:** Herein, heteroatoms of N and P doped carbon layer over MnO<sup>2</sup> nanorods surface was fabricated by an in situ anile polymerization reaction based on aniline and phytic acid (MnO2@PANI) following thermal annealing. A core-shell structure with manganese oxide as the core and N, P-doped carbon layer as the shell was revealed by structure and morphology analysis. Temperature dependence of phase structure and ORR activity was found by a series of physical and electrochemical studies for MnO2@PANI sample obtained at different annealing temperatures. The MnO2@PANI obtained at 800 <sup>o</sup>C exhibited the best catalytic performance, close to Pt/C for ORR; Specifically, the onset potential and half-wave potential were 0.92 and 0.76 V respectively, outperforming their counterparts of MnO<sup>2</sup> and N, P-C alone. The improved catalytic performance can be attributed to the conductivity improvement and the synergistic effect of the intrinsic activity of manganese oxide and N, P-doped carbon layer. The current work demonstrated an efficient approach to boost the catalytic performance for ORR catalyzed by manganese oxide.

#### **Introduction**

Cathodic reduction of molecular oxygen is significant to the fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[1] Platinum-based materials are the most powerful catalyst for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) while it is not available to the large-scale commercialization due to its limited amount and high cost.[2] A consensus is made to develop Pt alternative catalysts that are cheap with acceptable catalyst activity for ORR. Currently, carbonaceous materials, transitionmetal oxides and inorganic-organic composites have been developed for accelerating the reaction rate of ORR.[3] Among them, transition metal oxide is a kind of important alternatives in alkaline solutions due to the advantages of high element abundance, low cost and excellent durability.[4] While the intrinsic low conductivity and poor activity should be largely improved to meet the performance required in the real devices.

The family of manganese oxides is regarded as one of the most promising catalysts for ORR in basic solution as they are abundant, inexpensive, and nontoxic with rich oxide chemistry.[5] Its catalyst activity differs from the various crystal structures, stoichiometric ratio and morphologies; α-MnO<sup>2</sup> possesses the best catalytic performance among the various manganese oxides while the catalytic efficiency is still low due to the production of intermediates products of H2O2. [6] A complete reduction pathway

[a] C Pei, R Ding, Dr. X Yu, Prof. L Feng School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225002, China E-mail: ligang.feng@yzu.edu.cn; fenglg11@gmail.com (L Feng)

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

by a 4 electron transfer per oxygen molecule is desired for ORR, while, still yet realized on the manganese oxides, it is challenging to increase its catalytic efficiency. Transition metal like silver and nickel modified manganese oxide can increase the catalytic activity for ORR while the stability is not favored especially in alkaline electrolyte.[6-7] The electrocatalytic performance can also be increased by electrical conductivity improvement with conductive carbon materials like carbon nanotube, graphene.[8] Carbon material doped by heteroatoms can provide additional active sites for oxygen catalysis. [9] A close four-electron reaction pathway and a peroxide yield lower than 20% are found on nitrogen-doped carbon nanosheets with size-defined mesopores as a catalyst for ORR.[10] Thus constructing a layered doped carbon shell over the manganese oxide surface would be a smart and valid approach to make it more promising in fuel cells technique; however, to the best of our knowledge, probing the surface engineering on α-MnO<sup>2</sup> has hardly been found in the literature.

Driven by such motivations, surface tuning by a combination of manganese oxide and doping effect was done in order to promote their catalytic performances for ORR. A facile approach was employed to construct heteroatoms doped carbon layer over the surface of MnO<sup>2</sup> nanorods by an in situ anile polymerization reaction based on aniline and phytic acid (MnO2@PANI) following a thermal annealing. Temperature dependence of phase structure and ORR activity was revealed by physical and electrochemical study for MnO2@PANI sample obtained at different annealing temperatures. The combination effect of manganese oxide and N, P-doped carbon layer significantly increased the catalytic performance for ORR compared with their counterparts, and the MnO2@PANI obtained at 800 <sup>o</sup>C exhibited the best catalytic performance for ORR; specifically, MnO2@PANI-800 has the largest onset potential, half-wave potential and diffusion-limiting current density for ORR compared with that of MnO<sup>2</sup> and N, P-C alone. The catalytic performance was also close to that of the commercial Pt/C catalyst while it has outstanding anti-poison ability to methanol and carbon oxide that made its application much robust in the direct alcohols fuel cells. The current work provided an efficient and facile approach to boost the ORR performance catalyzed by manganese oxide.

#### **Results and Discussion**

The synthetic procedure of MnO2@PANI-X (X represents the temperature of heat treatment) including a simple hydrothermal, polymerization and thermal activation process was briefly presented here. Before the hydrothermal reaction, the homogeneous mixture of MnSO<sup>4</sup> and KMnO<sup>4</sup> was crucial to the formation of high-quality MnO<sup>2</sup> nanorods. The polymerization of aniline over MnO<sup>2</sup> nanorods surface was done by adding phytic acid molecule protonating the nitrogen groups on PANI chain.[11]

WILEY-VCH

### **FULL PAPER**

Arising from the crosslinking effect that each phytic acid molecule can react with more than one chain, a porous shell over the surface of  $\text{MnO}_2$  nanorods was thus formed. Moreover, no additional oxidization initiator was added into the system to avoid impurities and the initiation of aniline polymerization was indicated by the color change to black green because of the oxygenation reaction of  $\text{MnO}_2$ . Shape-preserving thermal annealing was finally done to efficiently complete the carbonization and doping process at concerned temperatures.

**Figure 1.** (a, b, c) SEM images of MnO<sub>2</sub>, MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI and MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800. (d, e) TEM images of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 with different magnifications. (f) High-resolution TEM image and (g) corresponding SAED pattern of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800. (h) STEM image and elemental mapping of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800.

The surface morphology of relevant catalysts formed at different steps was confirmed by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Pristine MnO<sub>2</sub> nanorods are clearly shown with a length more than 1  $\mu m$  and a diameter of approximately 80 nm with the smooth surface. (Figure 1a and S1a). The surface of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI becomes much rougher arising from the crosslinking effect of phytic acid and aniline, and the diameter of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI nanorods is increased to around 130 nm resulting from the coated porous polyaniline shell (Figure 1b and S1b). A much rougher surface is obtained by further thermal annealing and the porous carbon shell is well maintained as shown on a typical MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 sample (Figure 1c and S1c). The SEM images exhibit the successful formation of carbon layers over the manganese oxide core. The rough surface increased by carbon shell could provide the possibility of efficient mass transportation and ion diffusion, and the improved catalytic performance was thus expected compared with the pristine MnO<sub>2</sub>.

The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) analysis were further carried out to characterize the morphology and structure of these samples. The diameter of  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  is around 130 nm, which is in great agreement with the observation from SEM (Figure 1d). The incontinuity of manganese compound as the core is clearly observed which may be assigned to the reaction with aniline during the polymerization process. Uniform carbon shell is founded in  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  and the thickness is approach to 25 nm which provides paths for mass transportation and ion diffusion

(Figure 1e). MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-700 shows a similar morphology as MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 (Figure S2a) while the rupture of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-900 can be found clearly in Figure S2b. From the well-resolved lattices of the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image (Figure 1f), the interplanar spacing of 0.25 nm and 0.22 nm are consistent with the (211) plane of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and (200) plane of MnO, respectively.[12] This means that MnO2 is transformed into the composition of MnO and Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> as the core for MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 sample (vide infra for phase structure analysis). The obvious polycrystalline structure of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 is indicated by selected area electron diffraction (SAED) analysis (Figure 1g). Furthermore, MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 consists of C, Mn, O, N and P elements with a uniform distribution as confirmed by the elemental mapping analysis (Figure 1h). Combining the information obtained from electron microscopy, the core-shell structure is successfully established and the carbon shell is uniformly doped by heteroatoms N, P which provide the additional active sites to improve electrocatalytic performance in ORR.

**Figure 2.** (a) CV curves of Pt/C,  $M_{1}O_{2}$ , N, P-C and  $M_{1}O_{2}$ @PANI-800 in  $N_{2}$  (dotted line) and  $O_{2}$  (actual line) saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. (b) LSV curves of  $M_{1}O_{2}$ , N, P-C,  $M_{1}O_{2}$ @PANI-800 and Pt/C in  $O_{2}$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. (c) The electron-transfer number and the  $H_{2}O_{2}$  yield of samples in 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution. ORR polarization curves of  $M_{1}O_{2}$ @PANI-800 (d),  $M_{1}O_{2}$  (e) and N, P-C (f) at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at different rotating rates (Inset: Koutecky-Levich plots at different potentials).

WILEY-VCH

#### **FULL PAPER**

To uncover the role of the synergistic effect between the manganese oxide core and N, P doped carbon shell, cyclic voltammetry (CV) analysis was applied to pure MnO<sub>2</sub>, N, P-doped carbon (N, P-C) and MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 in a N<sub>2</sub>- or O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 2a). As the classical benchmark catalyst for ORR, the CV curve of commercial Pt/C catalysts was also evaluated. A substantial reduction process is shown to occur on MnO2@PANI-800 at about 0.79 V (vs. RHE), just a little bit smaller than that of commercial Pt/C (0.82 V), in the O2-saturated electrolyte whereas a featureless voltammogram is observed within the same voltage window in the N<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte. The obvious negative shift of reduction peaks is found compared with MnO2 and N, P-C tentatively revealing the best electrocatalytic performance of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800. To gain a deeper insight into the electrocatalytic activity and kinetics of relevant samples towards the ORR, linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) are recorded on a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) at various rotating speeds in the O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 2b). Obviously, MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 exhibits the best electrocatalytic activity compared with pure MnO2 and N, P-C on basis of its superior onset, half-wave potentials and the diffusion-limiting current density. The reduction onset potential of MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 appears at 0.92 V close to Pt/C (0.94 V), while the onset potentials are negatively shifted for MnO<sub>2</sub> and N, P-C electrode. Furthermore, the most positive half-wave potential is also found on  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  as 0.76 V, which is 0.26 V and 0.09 V more than that of MnO2 and N, P-C respectively. In addition, the diffusion-limiting current density of MnO2@PANI-800 is the largest compared with MnO<sub>2</sub> and N, P-C. The detailed information of onset, half-wave potentials and the diffusion-limiting current density of these catalysts are listed in Table S1. The electrontransfer number and H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production of all catalysts are calculated from the disk/ring current and illustrated in Figure 2c. Compared with pure MnO<sub>2</sub> and N, P-C, MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 exhibits the best electrochemical performances in electron transfer number and H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production. The electron transfer number for MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 is about 3.88, a typical four-electron oxygen reduction process close to that of Pt/C. Furthermore, the percent of produced  $H_2O_2$  for  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  is lower than 5% indicating a dominant four-electron reaction pathway, while the percent of produced H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> for MnO<sub>2</sub> and N, P-C is approach to 10% over the potential range of 0.1 V to 0.6 V. The Koutecky-Levich plot (j-1 vs.  $\omega^{\text{-1/2}}\!)$  of the studied catalyst was derived from polarization curves at different rotation speeds and it was used to calculate the electron transfer numbers too (Figure 2d-2f and S3a-3b). A large current density is obtained at a higher rotation speed due to the improvement of oxygen diffusion on the electrode surface. Good linearity and near parallelism property of K-L plots for MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 indicate a first-order reaction kinetics with regard to the concentration of dissolved oxygen and similar electron transfer numbers (n) at various potentials. The highest electron transfer number is obtained on MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 catalyst as 3.86 compared with MnO<sub>2</sub> (2.83) and N, P-C (3.24) and it is just a little bit smaller than that of commercial Pt/C (4.00). The results suggest that MnO2@PANI-800 exhibits a dominant

four-electron oxygen reduction process which is in great

agreement with the information obtained from the disk/ring current. All these features demonstrate that  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  possess the best electrocatalytic activity among relevant samples and the combined effect is larger than  $MnO_2$  and N, P-C alone. Moreover, the results reveal that the coated carbon shell doped by N and P elements provides more active sites and the main reason for  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  to own the best performance is the synergistic effect of manganese oxide core and heteroatom doping carbon shell.

**Figure 3.** (a) CV curves of MnO $_2$ @PANI-700, MnO $_2$ @PANI-800 and MnO $_2$ @PANI-900 in N $_2$  (dotted line) and O $_2$  (actual line) saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. (b) LSV curves of MnO $_2$ @PANI-700, MnO $_2$ @PANI-800 and MnO $_2$ @PANI-900 in O $_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. (c) The electron-transfer number and the H $_2$ O $_2$  yield of samples in 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution.

The effect of calcination temperature was initially probed through the relevant electrochemical tests. The electrocatalytic activity of the MnO2@PANI-700, MnO2@PANI-800 and MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-900 was examined by CV measurements at room temperature. In O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution, the most positive cathode peak at 0.79 V is clearly observed in MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 among the concerned samples (Figure 3a). Rotating ring-disk electrode measurements were further used to investigate the electrocatalytic activity and kinetics of these catalysts (Figure 3b). The best electrocatalytic activity is also found on MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 compared with MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-700 and MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-900 as judged by the superior onset, half-wave potential and the diffusion-limiting current density (Table S1). The electron-transfer number and H2O2 production of MnO2@PANI treated at different temperatures obtained from the disk/ring current are illustrated in Figure 3c. Consistent with the above analysis, the biggest electron-transfer number and the lowest H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> production are also found on MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 suggesting its best catalytic performance for ORR. The number of electron transfer involved per O2 was also calculated via the K-L equation (Figure S3c-3f) and the value of electron-transfer number for all

WILEY-VCH

#### **FULL PAPER**

the calcined  $MnO_2@PANI$  catalysts is larger than that of the pure  $MnO_2$ , the largest value is still observed on  $MnO_2@PANI$ -800 electrode indicating its most suitable calcination temperature of  $MnO_2@PANI$ .

**Figure 4.** (a) XRD patterns of  $MnO_2@PANI-700$ ,  $MnO_2@PANI-800$  and  $MnO_2@PANI-900$ . XPS spectrum of (b) Mn 2p, (c) N 1s and (d) P 2p for  $MnO_2@PANI-800$ .

X-ray diffraction (XRD) was carried out to study the structural information of concerned samples. Tetragonal crystal structure of α-MnO<sub>2</sub> is indicated by XRD (JCPDS card No. 44-0141) and no obvious structure change is found when PANI coated over pure MnO<sub>2</sub> surface (Figure S4). The crystal structure evolution induced by thermal annealing is compared in Figure 4a. MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-700 exhibits weak peaks that can be attributed to Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> with the tetragonal structure (JCPDS card No. 75-1560) indicating a crystal phase transfer from MnO2 annealed at 700 °C. The intensity of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> becomes much stronger when annealed at 800 °C and the mixed crystal phases of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and MnO are observed (JCPDS card No. 78-0424) which is consistent with the analysis in HRTEM. Specifically, the characteristic diffraction peaks at 29.1°, 31.0°, 32.3°, 36.0° and 59.9° are corresponding to the reflection peaks of Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> while the distinct peaks at 34.9°, 40.5° and 59.1° can be assigned to the (111), (200) and (220) planes of MnO, respectively. [13] This feature demonstrates a partial phase transformation from Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> to MnO. No new phase is found on MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-900 while the peak intensity of MnO becomes stronger indicating the further transformation from Mn<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> to MnO by increasing the annealing temperature.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed to probe the complicated chemical environment and bonding states of the concerned elements in these samples. The whole spectrum indicates the presence of Mn, C, O, N and P element in great agreement with the analysis of elemental mappings (Figure S5). All the binding energy was calibrated by the main peak of C 1s at 284.8 eV. For the C 1s spectrum, the peaks at 284.8, 285.6, 286.5 and 288.7 eV can be attributed to C-C/C=C, C-N, C-O and C=O, respectively (Figure S6). The high-resolution Mn 2p spectrum of

MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 can be deconvoluted into six peaks, corresponding to Mn<sup>2+</sup> (640.8 and 652.6 eV), Mn<sup>3+</sup> (641.9 and 653.7 eV) and Mn<sup>4+</sup> (643.1 and 654.9 eV) species (Figure 4b).<sup>[14]</sup> By integrating the peak area of Mn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>3+</sup> and Mn<sup>4+</sup> in the sample, the ratio of Mn<sup>2+</sup>, Mn<sup>3+</sup> and Mn<sup>4+</sup> is calculated to be 24.15%, 42.99% and 32.86% respectively. Previous reports have found that the mixed valence of Mn3+ and Mn4+ have much higher intrinsic activity than those containing exclusively Mn4+; so did for the mixed valence of Mn3+ and Mn2+, corroborating that Mn3+ was essential to catalyze the ORR.[15] These observations suggest that the mixed Mn valences can improve the ORR activity with improved charge transfer to adsorbed oxygen, especially more  $Mn^{3+}$  is favored due to the single electron occupation in  $\sigma^*$ -orbital. The current work also supports the main contribution of Mn<sup>3+</sup> to the high ORR activity as the highest content of Mn3+ is found compared with other oxidation states. Consistently the peaks at 530.2, 531.6 and 533.5 eV can be ascribed to Mn-O, Mn-O-H and H-O-H in the O 1s spectrum (Figure S7). The main peaks of N 1s spectra in Figure 4c can be fitted into pyridinic-N, pyrrolic-N and graphitic-N species at around 398.5 eV, 400.3 eV and 401.2 eV.[16] The high resolution of P 2p spectrum can be deconvoluted into P-C, P-N and P-O at around 132.6, 133.4 and 134.2 eV, respectively (Figure 4d).[17] The graphitization degree of carbon shell was evaluated by Raman spectra for MnO2@PANI-800 (Figure S8). The broad Raman bands located at 1350 and 1599  $\mbox{cm}^{\mbox{-}1}$  are associated with the  $A_{1g}$  vibration mode of the disordered carbon (D band) and the  $E_{2g}$  vibration mode of the defined graphitic carbon (G band), respectively. The appearance of D band in MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 suggests the formation of abundant defects on the carbon shell. [18] The intensity ratio (ID/IG) is around 0.9, lower than 1, indicating a high graphitization degree of carbon, which can greatly improve the conductivity of the catalysts.[19] Therefore, N, P-doped carbon layer over the manganese oxide nanorod surface was formed. An optimal Mn3+ content was found on MnO<sub>2</sub>@PANI-800 that was active for the ORR; and the coated layer of N, P-doped carbon can change the charge distribution of carbon atoms adjacent to the N and P dopants producing some intrinsic defects as active sites for the oxygen electrocatalysis. Thus, the synergistic effect of the non-precious N, P-doped carbon and manganese oxide would contribute to the high

## **FULL PAPER**

**Figure 5** (a) The ORR polarization curves for MnO2@PANI-800 before and after 10 000 cycles. (b) Methanol crossover and (c) anti-CO poisoning test with MnO2@PANI-800 and Pt/C at 0.8 V vs. RHE.

Besides the catalytic activity, the durability of MnO2@PANI-800 and Pt/C toward ORR was evaluated by the accelerated durability tests in which the catalyst was cycled in oxygen-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution between 0.6 V and 1.2 V with the scan rate at 0.1 V s -1 for 10 000 cycles. Outstanding catalytic stability was demonstrated in Figure 5a in which no change was found on the onset potential and only a slight decrease occurred in the limiting currents after 10 000 cycles. Moreover, the half-wave potential of MnO2@PANI-800 was negatively shifted about 5 mV, lower than that of the commercial Pt/C (18 mV). The compositions of MnO2@PANI-800 before and after stability tests were provided in Table S2 and no obvious change was found further demonstrating the good stability. The excellent catalytic selectivity for cathode reactions against fuel oxidation and anti-poisoning ability were illustrated in Figure 5b and 5c. No obvious performance decay was found on MnO2@PANI-800 after injecting methanol and CO poison reactants indicating its strong potential application as cathode catalyst in the direct alcohol fuel cells. In contrast, a serious performance decay was clearly observed on Pt/C catalyst. Thus MnO2@PANI-800 as an efficient cathode catalyst can be compensated by the low cost and high anti-poisoning ability when replacing the Pt/C catalysts.

#### **Conclusions**

In summary, the combination of manganese oxide and N, Pdoped carbon layer in the form of core-shell structure was found to have an outstanding catalytic performance for ORR. This catalyst can be obtained by a facile approach via an in situ anile polymerization reaction based on aniline and phytic acid following thermal annealing. Temperature dependence of phase structure and ORR activity was revealed for MnO2@PANI samples obtained at different annealing temperatures. The MnO2@PANI obtained at 800 <sup>o</sup>C exhibited the best catalytic performance for ORR and it had the largest onset potential, half-wave potential and diffusion-limiting current density compared with that of MnO<sup>2</sup> and N, P-C alone. The catalytic performance was also close to that of the commercial Pt/C catalyst while it had outstanding antipoison ability to methanol and carbon oxide that made its application much robust in the direct alcohols fuel cells. The improved catalytic performance can be attributed to the conductivity improvement and the synergistic effect of the intrinsic activity of manganese oxide and N, P-doped carbon layer. The current work demonstrated an efficient and facile approach to boost the catalytic performance catalyzed by manganese oxide for ORR.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21603041; 21805239), the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institution. We also acknowledge the technical support at Testing Center of Yangzhou University.

**Keywords:** oxygen reduction reaction • manganese oxide • core-shell structure • doping effect • fuel cells

- [1] a) S. Ratso, I. Kruusenberg, M. Käärik, M. Kook, R. Saar, M. Pärs, J. Leis, K. Tammeveski, *Carbon* **2017**, *113*, 159-169; b) S. Fu, C. Zhu, J. Song, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700363.
- [2] J. Guo, Y. Li, Y. Cheng, L. Dai, Z. Xiang, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 8379-8386.
- [3] a) J. Zhu, D. Xu, C. Wang, W. Qian, J. Guo, F. Yan, *Carbon* **2017**, *115*, 1- 10; b) H. Zhong, Y. Luo, S. He, P. Tang, D. Li, N. Alonso-Vante, Y. Feng, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 2541-2549; c) Z. Liu, J. Xue, H. Yu, X. Yu, L. Feng, *Energy Technol.* **2018**, *6*, 2394–2398.
- [4] Y. Niu, X. Huang, X. Wu, L. Zhao, W. Hu, C. Ming Li, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 10233-10239.
- [5] K. A. Stoerzinger, M. Risch, B. Han, Y. Shao-Horn, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 6021-6031.
- [6] S. Sun, H. Miao, Y. Xue, Q. Wang, S. Li, Z. Liu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *214*, 49-55.
- [7] T. N. Lambert, J. A. Vigil, S. E. White, C. J. Delker, D. J. Davis, M. Kelly, M. T. Brumbach, M. A. Rodriguez, B. S. Swartzentruber, *J. Phy. Chem. C*  **2017**, *121*, 2789-2797.
- [8] a) D. Dehui, Y. Liang, C. Xiaoqi, W. Guoxiong, J. Li, P. Xiulian, D. Jiao, S. Gongquan, B. Xinhe, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 371-375; b) Z. Liu, Y. Wang, L. Feng, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2018**, *22*, 3467-3474.
- [9] a) H. Yang, H. Taizhong, W. Zhenhai, M. Shun, C. Shumao, C. Junhong, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2014**, *4*, 1400337; b) Z. Liu, X. Yu, H. Yu, H. Xue, L. Feng, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 2703 -2709.
- [10] W. Wei, L. Haiwei, P. Khaled, Z. Xiaodong, F. Xinliang, M. Klaus, *Angew. Chem.* **2014**, *126*, 1596-1600.
- [11] L. Pan, G. Yu, D. Zhai, H. R. Lee, W. Zhao, N. Liu, H. Wang, B. C. Tee, Y. Shi, Y. Cui, Z. Bao, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2012**, *109*, 9287-9292.
- [12] W. Wang, T. Yang, G. Yan, H. Li, *Mater. Lett.* **2012**, *82*, 237-239.
- [13] J. Yue, X. Gu, L. Chen, N. Wang, X. Jiang, H. Xu, J. Yang, Y. Qian, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 17421-17426.
- [14] F. Zeng, Y. Pan, Y. Yang, Q. Li, G. Li, Z. Hou, G. Gu, *Electrochim. Acta*  **2016**, *196*, 587-596.
- [15] M. Risch, K. A. Stoerzinger, B. Han, T. Z. Regier, D. Peak, S. Y. Sayed, C. Wei, Z. Xu, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2017**, *121*, 17682-17692.
- [16] a) J. Sanetuntikul, T. Hang, S. Shanmugam, *Chem. Commun.* **2014**, *50*, 9473-9476; b) X. Yu, C. Pei, L. Feng, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2019**, *30*, 1121- 1125.
- [17] J. Wu, X. Zheng, C. Jin, J. Tian, R. Yang, *Carbon* **2015**, *92*, 327-338.
- [18] L. Li, P. Dai, X. Gu, Y. Wang, L. Yan, X. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 789-795.
- [19] a) Y. Hou, T. Huang, Z. Wen, S. Mao, S. Cui, J. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.*  **2014**, *4*, 1400337; b) Z. Liu, H. Yu, B. Dong, X. Yu, L. Feng, *Nanoscale*  **2018**, *10*, 16911-16918.

# **FULL PAPER**

### FULL PAPER

MnO <sup>2</sup>@PANI -800 obtained by a facile approach via an in situ anile polymerization reaction based on aniline and phytic acid following thermal annealing has an outstanding catalytic performance for ORR. It can be attributed to the conductivity improvement and the synergistic effect of the intrinsic activity of manganese oxide and N, P -doped carbon layer.

*Chengang Pei, Ruifu Ding, Xu Yu, Ligang Feng \**

*Page No. – Page No.*

**Electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction performance boosted by N, P doped carbon layer over manganese dioxide nanorod**