---
source: Peng 等 - 2024 - One‐Pot Etching Pyrolysis to Defect‐Rich Carbon Nanosheets to Construct Multiheteroatom‐Coordinated.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.115s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:00:52.854717Z
---

# **One-Pot Etching Pyrolysis to Defect-Rich Carbon Nanosheets to Construct Multiheteroatom-Coordinated Iron Sites for Efficient Oxygen Reduction**

*Shichao Peng, Xilan Ma,\* Jiachen Tian, Changliang Du, Lifen Yang, Erchao Meng, Youqi Zhu,\* Meishuai Zou,\* and Chuanbao Cao\**

**Constructing multiheteroatom coordination structure in carbonaceous substrates demonstrates an effective method to accelerate the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) of supported single-atom catalyst. Herein, the novel etching route assisted by potassium thiocyanate (KCNS) is developed to convert metal-organic framework to 2D defect-rich porous N,S-co-doped carbon nanosheets for anchoring atomically dispersed iron sites as the high-performance ORR catalysts (Fe-SACs). The well-designed KCNS-assisted etching route can generate spatial confinement template to direct the carbon nanosheet formation, etching condition to form defect-rich structure, and additional sulfur atoms to coordinate iron species. Spectral and microscopy analysis reveals that the iron element in Fe-SACs is highly isolated on carbon nanosheet and anchored by nitrogen and sulfur atoms in unsymmetrical Fe-S1N3 structure. The optimized Fe-SACs with large specific surface area could show remarkable alkaline ORR performances with a high half-wave potential of 0.920 V versus RHE and excellent durability. The rechargeable zinc–air battery assembled with Fe-SACs air electrodes delivers a large power density of 350 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a stable voltage platform during charge and discharge over more than 1300 h. This work proposes a novel strategy for the preparation of single-atom catalysts with multiheteroatom coordination structure and highly exposed active sites for efficient ORR.**

**1. Introduction**

Various sustainable and clean energy technologies including metal-air batteries and fuel cells have been proposed to relieve

S. Peng, X. Ma, J. Tian, C. Du, L. Yang, Y. Zhu, M. Zou, C. Cao Research Center of Materials Science

Beijing Key Laboratory of Construction Tailorable Advanced Functional

Materials and Green Applications Beijing Institute of Technology

Beijing 100081, China

E-mail: [maxilan@bit.edu.cn;](mailto:maxilan@bit.edu.cn) [yqzhu@bit.edu.cn;](mailto:yqzhu@bit.edu.cn) [zoums@bit.edu.cn;](mailto:zoums@bit.edu.cn) [cbcao@bit.edu.cn](mailto:cbcao@bit.edu.cn)

E. Meng

School of Material Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology Beijing

Beijing 100083, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202310637>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202310637**

the increasing requirement for new energy and the excessive consumption of fossil fuel.[\[1\]](#page-7-0) Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is considered a fundamental electrochemical pathway in these energy-related devices.[\[2\]](#page-7-0) However, their low energy conversion efficiency is deeply concerned mainly due to the sluggish ORR kinetics.[\[3\]](#page-7-0) Therefore, developing suitable ORR catalyst is highly urgent to improve their reaction kinetics and efficiency. While Pt-based catalysts have achieved considerable success in increasing ORR kinetics, their limited reserves, high prices and inferior durability severely restrict their large-scale commercialization. In recent developments, single-atom catalysts (SACs) supported on diverse carbon scaffolds have garnered attention for their maximized atom-utilization efficiency, distinctive metal coordination environments, abundant anchoring sites offering exceptional tunability, ordered porosity, and selectivity. These attributes position them as promising candidates for advancing oxygen electrocatalysis.[\[4\]](#page-7-0) Single-atom catalysts with highly isolated metal active center on the support surface are considered an

efficient alternative to platinum-based metal counterparts.[\[5\]](#page-7-0) Practically, the nitrogen-coordinated metal atomic sites (M-Nx) can be precisely constructed to show maximum dispersion degree and atom utilization. Furthermore, the ORR activity and stability of single-atom catalyst can be improved by adjusting the coordination number, electronic structure, and spatial configuration of M-Nx active centers.[\[6\]](#page-7-0) Carbon-supported Fe single-atom catalysts with symmetrical Fe-N4 moiety occupy the peak position of the volcanic diagram of theoretical ORR activity for various transition metal candidates.[\[7\]](#page-7-0) Therefore, the reasonable bonding interaction with oxygen-containing intermediates endows the highest intrinsic ORR activity to Fe single-atom catalysts.[\[8\]](#page-7-0) However, serious activity decay and irreversible structure collapse generally have puzzled Fe-based catalysts due to the Fenton effect.[\[9\]](#page-7-0) Reasonably designing and synthesizing Fe single-atom catalysts with efficient ORR performances still remains a hot research topic.[\[10\]](#page-7-0)

Constructing multiheteroatom coordination structure over M-Nx active sites has attracted broad attention to further regulate

the spatial atomic configuration of single-atom catalysts.[\[11\]](#page-7-0) The electronegative secondary coordination heteroatoms such as sulfur and phosphorus are widely introduced into the atomic configuration of M-Nx sites to construct multiheteroatom coordination structure with unsymmetrical charge distribution.[\[12\]](#page-7-0) Especially, the additional coordination sulfur can significantly improve the ORR catalytic activity due to the fact that introducing additional coordination sulfur can modify the graphitic structure of carbon matrix, increase the number of active centers, and enhance the chemical bonding between the metal centers and the surrounding delocalized electrons via weakening the large electronegativity of the coordination nitrogen.[\[13\]](#page-7-0) The redistributed charge in multiheteroatom coordination structure can further regulate the electron-withdrawing/donating property and thus improve intrinsic ORR kinetics.[\[14\]](#page-7-0) In addition, tuning defect chemistry of single-atom catalysts also shows great promise to improve their ORR performance.[\[15\]](#page-7-0) Particularly, the well-designed pyrolysis to single-atom catalysts assisted by chemical etching can enrich carbon defect with high surface area and porosity.[\[16\]](#page-7-0) The etchingdriven single-atom catalysts can show ultrahigh practical atom utilization and good durability due to the abundant available active sites exposed to reactant and favorable mass and electron transport.[\[12c,17\]](#page-7-0) However, the rapid migration of metal atoms at high synthesis temperature inevitably results in agglomeration of particle or cluster and thus interferes with the four-electron ORR process. Therefore, developing new efficient strategy to fabricate carbon-supported single-atom catalysts with 2D ultrathin morphology, defect-rich porous framework, and multiheteroatom coordination structure is highly desired but still challenging.[\[18\]](#page-7-0)

Herein, the one-pot KCNS-assisted pyrolysis strategy is reported for the first time to convert ZIF-8 precursor into 2D carbon nanosheet with high specific surface area and rich defects. Potassium ions (K<sup>+</sup>) act as a smart "adhesive" to reorder the structure of the carbon carrier, they have a more efficient embedding and stripping effect in ZIF-8, and at high temperatures, it can peel the crystalline state of ZIF-8 into a very thin 2D sheet shape of the material. Therefore, during the pyrolysis process, K ions and SCN ions provided by the decomposition of KSCN can further etch the shape of the material and form a 2D and porous structure. The advantage of our research protocol compared to previous studies is that the KSCN etcher used can create a porous structure for the ZIF-8 matrix. By controlling the addition amount of KSCN, the average pore size of the nanoparticles can be changed, and the ratio of micropores to mesoporous pores can be adjusted, so as to find the optimal structure of the catalyst and obtain excellent catalytic performance. In addition, KSCN can provide additional nitrogen and sulfur atoms for anchoring Fe atoms. The defect-rich carbon nanosheets are employed as the ideal support for preparing Fe single-atom catalysts (Fe-SACs).

Aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-STEM) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis confirms that the iron species in Fe-SACs is distributed as isolated single atomic sites and anchored by nitrogen and sulfur atoms in unsymmetrical Fe-S1N3 structure. When evaluated as the ORR catalyst in 0.1 m KOH medium, the optimized Fe-SACs show excellent ORR activity and durability. A large halfwave potential of 0.920 V versus RHE is achieved over Fe-SACs, 80 mV larger than that of commercial Pt/C (20 wt%). Longterm cycling stability measurement reveals only 5 mV activity decay after 10 000 cycles. When assembled as the air cathodes for rechargeable zinc–air battery, the Fe-SACs show a large power density of 350 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and good cycling stability for more than 1300 h.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterization**

Fe-SACs were synthesized by a KCNS-assisted pyrolysis method as illustrated in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) ZIF-8 precursors were first prepared by coordination chemistry reaction of metal Zn2<sup>+</sup> ion and 2 methylimidazole as the self-sacrificing template (Figure S1, Supporting Information). KCNS powders were selected as the etching agent and sulfur source. Then ZIF-8 precursors were thoroughly mixed with KCNS powders by grinding. After pyrolysis at 920 °C for 2h, the porous N,S-doped carbon nanosheets (NSC) were obtained (Figures S2–S4, Supporting Information). We know that from previous work potassium ions (K<sup>+</sup>) act as a smart "binder" for re-ordering the structure of carbon support, they were more effective in intercalation and exfoliation in ZIF-8. At high temperatures, KSCN decomposes, providing K ions and SCN ions, which can further etch the morphology of the material and form a porous structure. The morphology of the three samples did not differ much, and they were all successfully etched to produce a consistent 2D sheet shape. The Fe3<sup>+</sup> ions were adsorbed on the porous carbon nanosheets assisted by melamine.[\[19\]](#page-7-0) Finally, the Fe-SACs was obtained after secondary heat treatment. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images show that that the optimized Fe-SACs exhibit an uniform sheet-like morphology (Figure [1b;](#page-2-0) Figure S5, Supporting Information). TEM images suggest a porous structure and no iron nanoparticles are present (Figure [1c;](#page-2-0) Figure S6, Supporting Information). High-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) image and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern suggest typical amorphous carbon features with abundant defects (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0). Aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-STEM) has excellent atomic resolution and can provide highresolution images of the catalyst surface. It is very important to study the atomic structure and surface morphology of singleatom catalysts.[\[20\]](#page-7-0) The images show the random distribution of Fe species on atomic sites within the carbon matrix, and there are no Fe clusters or nanoparticles (Figure [1e;](#page-2-0) Figure S7, Supporting Information). The bright spots are related to Fe atoms and circled in orange. STEM image and EDS elemental mapping (Figure [1f,g;](#page-2-0) Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information) further confirm that the C, N, S, and Fe elements are uniformly distributed on carbon substrate, and no Fe clusters and nanoparticles are observed. The mass loading of Fe species is measured to be 0.56 wt% by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) (Table S1, Supporting Information).

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns suggest that all three Fe-SACs show only two main characteristic peaks of graphitic carbon, and no characteristic peaks of metal Fe or Fe compounds are observed (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0).[\[21\]](#page-7-0) In Raman spectroscopy, the D and G peaks are the most common vibration modes. The D peak originates from the stretching vibrations of C─C and C═C bonds, reflecting the structure and defects of the sample. The G peak arises from the stretching vibrations of sp2 hybridized carbon atoms

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthesis and structural characterization of Fe-SACs. a) Schematic illustration of formation procedure. b) SEM image. c) TEM image. d) HRTEM image and SAED pattern. e) AC-STEM image. f,g) HAADF-STEM image and EDS elemental mapping.

and electrons, reflecting the number of layers and lattice integrity of the sample, particularly in properties of 2D carbon materials such as graphene. As shown in the Figure [2b,](#page-3-0) the D peak of the samples exhibits much higher intensity than that of the G peak, indicating high defect degree (Figure [2b;](#page-3-0) Table S2, Supporting Information). The total pore volume and specific surface area of Fe-SACs could be regulated by changing the KCNS amount in the etching-assisted pyrolysis strategy. As shown in adsorption-desorption isotherms and pore size distribution profiles (Figure [2c;](#page-3-0) Figure S10 and Table S3, Supporting Information), the NSC and Fe-SACs show slightly increased average pore size, but reduced specific surface area, with the increasing KCNS incorporation. The optimized 1/0.75Fe-SACs present the highest Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area of 1363.48 m<sup>2</sup> g–1 and lowest average pore size of 3.9703 nm, and the pore volume increases first and then decreases with the addition of KSCN, which is related to the porous structure generated by etching during pyrolysis.[\[22\]](#page-8-0) The component and chemical valence of the Fe-SACs were determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Figures S11–S15 and Tables S4–S6, Supporting Information). The N and S contents are measured to be 8.79 at.% and 4.39 at.%, respectively. Three elemental forms of pyridinic, pyrrolic and graphitic nitrogen are observed in the N 1s XPS spectra. In the S 2p XPS spectra, the peaks at 163.9, 165.0, and 168.5 eV are related to thiophene-sulfur (2P3/2), thiophene-sulfur (2P1/2), and sulfur oxide, respectively.[\[23\]](#page-8-0) Since XPS can only measure a depth of 10 nm on the sample surface, the extremely small Fe content results in the element not being detected on the surface of the selected area. On the other hand, Fe atoms are dispersed as single atoms on the catalyst surface without forming Fe─Fe bonds. In this case, the peak of Fe 2p May be very weak or even undetectable in XPS. As can be seen from the Fe 2p spectrum, because the content of Fe element is very low, the signal in the figure is very messy and cannot provide useful information.

In order to further determine the central atomic structure and coordination environment of Fe species in Fe-SACs, X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) at Fe K-edge was performed. As presented in Figure [2d,](#page-3-0) the normalized X-ray absorption nearedge structure (XANES) elucidates the electronic structure of the catalyst by detecting the X-ray absorption edge of the material. It provides insights into the oxidation state of the metal atoms in the catalyst, their coordination environment, and interactions with neighboring atoms.[\[24\]](#page-8-0) The spectra of Fe-SACs were compared with those of standard Fe foil, FeO, Fe2O3, and FeS reference materials.[\[25\]](#page-8-0) The Fe-SACs exhibit relatively smooth curve oscillation. The absorption edge of Fe-SACs is present between that of Fe2O3 and FeO references, which suggests that the valence state of Fe species in Fe-SACs could be roughly estimated to be

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Physicochemical and fine structure analysis of Fe-SACs. a) XRD patterns. b) Raman spectra. c) N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms. d) Fe K-edge XANES spectra. e) Fourier transformation of k3-weighted (k)-function of Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra. f) WT-EXAFS contour plots. g) k-space EXAFS fitting profile. h) R-space FT-EXAFS fitting profile and inset illustrating the atomic structure model, and the cyan, carmine, violet, and black balls representing Fe, S, N, and C atoms.

between Fe2<sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup>. As shown in the Fourier transformed (FT) k3-weighted (k)-function of EXAFS spectra (Figure 2e), Fe-SACs exhibit two obvious peaks at 1.6 and 1.2 Å, respectively. The former is attributed to the scattering pathway of Fe-N coordination shell, and the latter should be attributed to the Fe-S scattering, indicative of the Fe─S bonding formation.[\[26\]](#page-8-0) For Fe-SACs, the typical peaks of metallic Fe─Fe coordination shell at 2.2 and 4.6 Å in Fe foil are nearly negligible and no other high shell peaks could be observed, further confirming the absence of metallic Fe nanoparticles and clusters. Furthermore, the wavelet transformation (WT) of Fe K-edge EXAFS oscillation is performed to visualize the Fe distribution state and offer high resolution information in both *k* and *R* space as displayed in Figure 2f. Fe foil and iron oxide references show the maximum strength within 7–8 Å<sup>−</sup>1, which are related to the Fe─Fe and Fe─O contribution. However, the maximum strength of Fe-SACs is observed at ≈4.8 Å<sup>−</sup>1, which is obviously different from that of references. The negative shift of maximum strength in Fe-SACs is ascribed to the FeN(O) and Fe-S coordination. The quantitative structural parameters of Fe atoms in Fe-SACs were confirmed by least squares EX-AFS fitting as presented in Figure 2g,h and Table S7 (Supporting Information).[\[27\]](#page-8-0) According to the well fitted results, the isolated Fe atom in Fe-SACs is directly coordinated by three N atoms and one S atom in the first coordination shell in the carbon matrix with average bond lengths of 1.98Å. The inset in Figure 2h shows the optimized atomic structure model with four coordination number. Therefore, both FT-EXAFS and WT-EXAFS can verify that the Fe species is atomically dispersed on carbon support.[\[28\]](#page-8-0)

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic ORR Performances Over Fe-SACs**

The alkaline ORR performances of Fe-SACs in oxygen-saturated 0.1 m KOH medium were investigated by rotating disk electrode method. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements show that the as-prepared Fe-SACs exhibit a greatly obvious cathodic peak at

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** ORR performances over Fe-SACs. (a) CV plots under N2 and O2 saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte. b) LSV curves at 1600 rpm. c) *E*1/2 and *J*<sup>k</sup> at 0.900 V versus RHE. d) Tafel plots at 1600 rpm. e) LSV curves at different rotation rates and the inset showing K–L plots f) Mass activity and turnover frequency comparison at 0.850 V versus RHE. g) Methanol resistance test. h) ORR polarization curves before and after 10 000 cycles. i) H2O2 yield and electron transfer.

0.920 V versus RHE in O2-saturated electrolyte, indicating good ORR activity (**Figure 3**a). Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) shows that all the Fe-SACs with different KCNS ratios can exhibit higher half-wave potential compared with commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) catalyst (Figure 3b). Especially the optimized 1/0.75 Fe-SACs show the highest half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.920 V versus RHE and the limiting current density (*I*d) of 5.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which exceed that of 1/1 Fe-SACs (Figure S17, Supporting Information), 1/2 Fe-SACs (Figure S18, Supporting Information), 1/0.5 Fe-SACs and the most of the previously reported ORR catalysts.[\[29\]](#page-8-0) The LSV and Tafel data for 1/0.5Fe-SACs have been added to the Supporting Information. Compared to 1/0.75Fe-SACs, the former exhibits slightly lower ORR performance (Figure S16, Supporting Information). The obvious difference in half-wave potential suggests that the porous structure with high specific surface area and suitable pore size distribution can play an important effect on the ORR activity of Fe-SACs. The large specific surface area and abundant mesopores can significantly enhance the mass transfer process during the ORR process. Among the catalysts, 1/0.75, as the best sample in electrochemical testing, has excellent ORR performance, which corresponds to its largest specific surface area and low average pore diameter compared with the others. As shown in Figure S19 (Supporting Information), a comparison of LSV curves for Fe-SACs, Fe,N-doped carbon (Fe-NC, Figure S20, Supporting Information), N,S-doped carbon nanosheets (NSC) and N-doped carbon (NC, Figure S21, Supporting Information) suggests that Fe atoms act as the main active site and are responsible for improving ORR activity, and the coordination S atoms is also favorable for enhancing the ORR activity.[\[30\]](#page-8-0) As shown in Figure 3c, the optimized 1/0.75 Fe-SACs show the highest kinetic current density of 11.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the potential of 0.900 V versus RHE, which is much higher than that of other control samples and Pt/C (20wt%) catalysts.[\[31\]](#page-8-0)

Figure 3d shows that the optimized Fe-SACs exhibit a little Tafel slope of 51.2 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which could be ascribed to the fast ORR kinetics in the small current density section. Furthermore, the LSV curves at different rotating rates from 900 to 2500 rpm deliver nearly constant onset potential and regularly stepped limited current density (Figure 3e). According to the limiting current densities and the Koutecky–Levich equation, the K-L plots

can be abstracted as shown in Figure S22 (Supporting Information), which can determine the electron-transfer value of 4.01.[\[32\]](#page-8-0) Compared with the datas of 1/1Fe-SACs (3.96) and 1/2Fe-SACs (3.90) (Figures S23 and S24, Supporting Information), 1/0.75Fe-SACs is more advantageous, indicative of better ORR reaction kinetics. Furthermore, turnover frequency (TOF) and mass activity (MA) were extracted according to the kinetic current density at 0.900 V versus RHE to evaluate the utilization of metal atoms as shown in Figure [3f.](#page-4-0) Fe-SACs can display 4.05 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> MA and 2.35 e site<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> TOF, which are larger than those of Pt/C (0.05 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 0.11 e site<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> s<sup>−</sup>1), and even exceeds previously reported single-atom catalysts to date.[\[33\]](#page-8-0) The good TOF and MA values indicate that the Fe-SACs show outstanding ORR activity. In order to study the effect of different mass loads on ORR activity, five sets of LSV tests were designed under different mass loads (Figure S25, Supporting Information). The results show that the load group of 125 μg has the highest half-wave potential. In theory, each active metal site of single-atomic catalyst can catalyze the ORR reaction. However, as the loading mass increases, the thickness of the conductive catalytic layer increases, leading to the fact that not all active sites are utilized in the ORR reaction. Of course, this utilization degree is also closely related to factors such as the quality of the spray, the specific surface area of the catalyst, and the pore structure, resulting in these subtle differences. To further confirm the fuel-resistant crossover effect of Fe-SACs, chronoamperometry (CA) was carried out at potential of 0.500 V versus RHE in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte at 1600 rpm rotation rate as displayed in Figure [3g.](#page-4-0) The Fe-SACs could maintain steady current density after methanol injection, and the current vibration is inapparent. In contrast, a sharp current jump is observed over Pt/C (20 wt%) counterpart, indicative of a competitive reaction of methanol oxidation. The ORR current density of Fe-SACs is decreased by only 5%, which is much smaller than that 25% of Pt/C (20 wt%) catalyst. These results indicate the excellent methanol crossover resistance of Fe-SACs. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) shows that Fe-SACs have low internal and electrode/electrolyte surface resistance (Figure S26, Supporting Information).

The catalytic durability of Fe-SACs was investigated by longterm cyclic LSV measurement in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH medium with a scan rate of 0.2 V s<sup>−</sup>1. As shown in Figure [3h,](#page-4-0) the half-wave potential is only decayed by 5.0 mV after 10 000 cycles, demonstrating good long-term stability. In contrast, Pt/C catalyst is subjected to 64.0 mV *E*1/2 fading after only 5000 cycles as presented in Figure S27 (Supporting Information). In addition, the recycled Fe-SACs can maintain good structural and morphological stability (Figures S28 and S29, Supporting Information). The surface conditions of electrodes loaded with catalysts were compared before and after testing for three groups (Figure S30, Supporting Information). It can be observed that there is no significant change in the catalysts before and after the reaction. They are uniformly loaded on the electrode surface without affecting the reaction results. The four-electron ORR selectivity of Fe-SACs was evaluated by rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) measurements. In addition, the electric double layer capacitance value of Fe-SACs is 41.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, indicating a large active surface area (Figure S31, Supporting Information). As displayed in Figure [3i,](#page-4-0) the H2O2 yield of Fe-SACs is extremely low in the potential range of 0.2–0.8 V versus RHE, *<*2% with the electron transfer number of 3.96–3.99, which is basically consistent with the value of 4.01 that is calculated by the Koutecký–Levich (K–L) equation. The above results confirm that Fe-SACs exhibit an efficient fourelectron ORR pathway with high catalytic efficiency in alkaline medium.[\[34\]](#page-8-0)

#### **2.3. Electrochemical Performance of Fe-SACs in Zn–Air Battery**

In order to confirm the device application of Fe-SACs, the rechargeable zinc–air batteries (ZABs) were fabricated with Fe-SACs as ORR electrocatalyst in the air cathode and zinc foil as the metal anode in 6 m KOH electrolyte as displayed in **Figure 4**[a.](#page-6-0) For control experiments, ZABs were also assembled with commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) catalyst as the air cathode under the same conditions. Figure [4b](#page-6-0) shows that the designed LED display could be successfully powered by the Fe-SACs-assembled ZABs, demonstrating the good feasibility in practical application conditions. In contrast, the battery assembled with Pt/C (20 wt%) can only lighten the LED display for*<*1 min. Theoretically, the OER performances of the air cathode material are also related to the reaction kinetics of ZABs during charge process. Figure S32 (Supporting Information) shows the LSV profile of Fe-SACs in OER process. An overpotential of 548 mV versus RHE is observed at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density. The Fe-SACs-assembled ZABs can deliver stable open circuit voltage of 1.53–1.58 V within 5 h, which is slightly higher than that of Pt/C-based battery (1.46 V), as displayed in Figure [4c.](#page-6-0) The result suggests that Fe-SACs show better spontaneous ORR kinetics under no-loading conditions compared with Pt/C (20 wt%) counterpart.

As shown in Figure [4d](#page-6-0) and Table S10 (Supporting Information), the Fe-SACs air cathode delivers much higher voltage platform than that of Pt/C (20 wt%) under every corresponding current density. The ZABs assembled with Fe-SACs exhibit excellent discharge stability and maintain high battery voltage under different current densities. Additionally, the Fe-SACs air cathode could still remain steady discharge voltage platform even when restored to the original low current density, which indicates good electrochemical reversibility.[\[35\]](#page-8-0) As shown in Figure [4e,](#page-6-0) the discharge specific capacity under 5mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density of the Fe-SACs assembled ZABs is as high as 812 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1, higher than that of the Pt/C-based batteries. This result indicates that Fe-SACs show good inherent ORR activity.[\[36\]](#page-8-0) The charge and discharge profiles of Fe-SA/NC-assembled Zn–air battery is shown in Figure S33 (Supporting Information). The peak power density of the Fe-SACs-based ZABs is 350 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at a current density of 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [4f\)](#page-6-0) and the repeated experiment measured 341 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in Figure S34 (Supporting Information), which are significantly larger than that of the Pt/C-based batteries (110 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 150 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). This result further highlights the superior battery performances of the Fe-SACs air cathodes. Additionally, to confirm the cyclic stability of the Fe-SACs assembled ZABs, galvanostatic current long-term cycling charge and discharge measurement was conducted as shown in Figure [4g](#page-6-0) and Figure S35 (Supporting Information). Compared with 600 cycles of Pt/C-based batteries, the Fe-SACs assembled ZABs can run 8000 cycles continuously and maintain stable voltage output, demonstrating the excellent potential of Fe-SACs for zinc–air batteries.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) In addition, to investigate the flexibility and

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrochemical performances of Fe-SACs in Zn–air battery. a) Schematic illustration of home-made Zn–air battery. b) LED panel device powered by ZABs. c) Open circuit voltage curves. d) Discharge profiles at different current densities. e) Specific capacity output plots. f) Discharge profiles and corresponding power density plots. g) Galvanostatic long-term charge and discharge profiles.

wearability of zinc–air batteries, we assembled and tested a flexible zinc–air battery (Figures S36–S38, Supporting Information). This solid-state zinc–air battery utilizes Fe-SACs as the air cathode, achieving a discharge specific capacity of 705 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and a discharge power of 115 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, both surpassing those of batteries assembled with commercial Pt/C catalysts. After 1500 cycles of constant current charge-discharge cycling test, there was no significant voltage platform decay. Furthermore, when the battery was bent at angles of 90°, −90°, and returned to 0°, the curve exhibited no significant fluctuations, indicating excellent stability and flexibility of the battery.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, KCNS-assisted etching strategy is reported to pyrolyze ZIF-8 precursors into defect-rich porous N,S-doped carbon nanosheets for fabricating Fe-SACs. The well-designed etching strategy can regulate pore size distribution and specific surface area of the carbon support by changing the ZIF-8/KCNS ratio to produce highly exposed Fe single-atom catalysts. The assynthesized Fe-SACs show a defect-rich porous structure with large specific surface area. When used as the electrocatalyst for ORR and zinc–air batteries, the Fe-SACs can show excellent ORR activity and long-term durability. The half-wave potential of the optimized Fe-SACs is 0.920 V versus RHE and can be maintained for 10 000 cycles with only 5 mV *E*1/2 decay. The zinc–air batteries assembled by Fe-SACs exhibit a power density of 350 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a specific capacity of 1070 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1. The present research provides a new way to rationally design efficient single-atom catalysts for energy storage and conversion applications.

## **4. Experimental Section**

Fe single-atom catalysts were fabricated by a KCNS-assisted pyrolysis strategy. The ZIF-8 powder was first prepared and then fully mixed with KCNS particles by grinding. During the grinding process, ethanol was added in an amount sufficient to cover KSCN for grinding, followed by the addition of ZIF-8 powder for continued grinding and stirring. After the ethanol volatilized, a white powder was obtained that was evenly mixed. Then the mixture was heated to 500 and 920 °C with 5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> heating rate under Ar atmosphere in tube furnace and kept for 2 h, respectively. After cooling down to room temperature naturally, the as-obtained products were washed with concentrated sulfuric acid at 80 °C for 12 h to remove the impurities. Then the product was washed again with deionized water completely and dried at 60 °C overnight to obtain the porous N,S-doped carbon nanosheets (NSC). Three wight ratios of ZIF-8/KCNS

<span id="page-7-0"></span>of 1:0.75, 1:1 and 1:2 were given to confirm the etching effect of KCNS, and the related N,S-doped carbon nanosheets were denoted as 1/1 NSC, 1/2 NSC, and 1/0.75 NSC, respectively. The as-prepared carbon nanosheets (40 mg) were mixed with melamine (250 mg) and ferric nitrate (5 mg) in ethanol solution with stirring and ultrasounding for 2 h, respectively. The dried sample was pyrolyzed at 920 °C for 2 h. Finally, the Fe-SACs were obtained and denoted as 1/1 Fe-SACs, 1/2 Fe-SACs, and 1/0.75 Fe-SACs, respectively, with the aforementioned three N,S-doped carbon nanosheet supports. In the control experiment, the amount of KCNS was varied to investigate the etching effect and degree. N-doped carbon (NC) was prepared by directly heating ZIF-8 in a tube furnace to 920 °C for 2 h. The preparation of Fe,N-doped carbon (Fe-NC) was carried out by mixing Ndoped carbon with melamine and ferric nitrate in ethanol solution, respectively, and then heating to 920 °C for 2 h after the ultrasonic and stirring process.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledge the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21371023 and 52173273) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (2022CX11013).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

#### **Keywords**

carbon defects, nanosheets, oxygen reduction reaction, single-atom catalysts, Zn–air battery

> Received: November 19, 2023 Revised: March 14, 2024 Published online: April 9, 2024

- [1] a) P. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, G. Zhou, S. Wei, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 10800; b) H. Cheng, X. Wu, M. Feng, X. Li, G. Lei, Z. Fan, D. Pan, F. Cui, G. He, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 12673.
- [2] a) J. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, L. Dai, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2015**, *10*, 444; b) X. Duan, S. Ren, N. Pan, M. Zhang, H. Zheng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 9355.
- [3] a) C. Xin, W. Shang, J. Hu, C. Zhu, J. Guo, J. Zhang, H. Dong, W. Liu, Y. Shi, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *2*, 32; b) X. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Lin, S. Gupta, C. Wang, Z. Tao, H. Fu, T. Wang, J. Zheng, G. Wu, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *25*, 110.
- [4] a) Z. Li, S. Ji, C. Xu, L. Leng, H. Liu, J. H. Horton, L. Du, J. Gao, C. He, X. Qi, Q. Xu, J. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209644; b) L. Peng, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 48.

- [5] a) J. S. Bates, M. R. Johnson, F. Khamespanah, T. W. Root, S. S. Stahl, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *9*, 6233; b) C. Wang, W. Chen, K. Xia, N. Xie, H. Wang, Y. Zhang, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1804966; c) F. X. Ma, Z. Q. Liu, G. Zhang, Y. X. Xiong, M. T. Zhang, L. Zheng, L. Zhen, C. Y. Xu, *Small* **2022**, *18*, e2205033.
- [6] a) J. Li, W. Xia, J. Tang, Y. Gao, C. Jiang, Y. Jia, T. Chen, Z. Hou, R. Qi, D. Jiang, T. Asahi, X. Xu, T. Wang, J. He, Y. Yamauchi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9280; b) S. Das, A. Kundu, T. Kuila, N. C. Murmu, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, 61, 102896.
- [7] a) H. Shang, X. Zhou, J. Dong, A. Li, X. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Lin, J. Pei, Z. Li, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, Z. Yang, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, T. Sun, X. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, J. Li, W. Chen, D. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 3049; b) P. Chen, Y. Tai, H. Wu, Y. Gao, J. Chen, J. Cheng, *Int. J. Minerals, Metallurgy Mater.* **2022**, *29*, 1627.
- [8] a) D. Geng, Y. Huang, S. Yuan, Y. Jiang, H. Ren, S. Zhang, Z. Liu, J. Feng, T. Wei, Z. Fan, *Small* **2023**, *19*, e2207227; b) H. Zhang, S. Hwang, M. Wang, Z. Feng, S. Karakalos, L. Luo, Z. Qiao, X. Xie, C. Wang, D. Su, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *40*, 14143.
- [9] a) H. Hu, J. Wang, B. Cui, X. Zheng, J. Lin, Y. Deng, X. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202114441; b) J. Qin, H. Liu, P. Zou, R. Zhang, C. Wang, H. L. Xin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2197; c) T. Cui, Y. P. Wang, T. Ye, J. Wu, Z. Chen, J. Li, Y. Lei, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202115219; d) S. Liu, X. Wan, Y. Sun, S. Li, X. Guo, M. Li, R. Yin, Q. Kong, J. Kong, J. Zhang, *Int. J. Minerals, Metallurgy Mater.* **2022**, *29*, 2212.
- [10] a) B. Wang, F. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202111026; b) Y. Li, Y. Ding, B. Zhang, Y. Huang, H. Qi, P. Das, L. Zhang, X. Wang, Z.-S. Wu, X. Bao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 2629.
- [11] a) F. Wang, R. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Li, J. Zhang, W. Yuan, H. Liu, F. Wang, H. L. Xin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213863; b) S. Chandrasekaran, R. Hu, L. Yao, L. Sui, Y. Liu, A. Abdelkader, Y. Li, X. Ren, L. Deng, *Nanomicro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 48.
- [12] a) H.-C. Huang, Y.-C. Lin, S.-T. Chang, C.-C. Liu, K.-C. Wang, H.-P. Jhong, J.-F. Lee, C.-H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 19790; b) H. Chang, L.-N. Shi, Y.-H. Chen, P.-F. Wang, T.-F. Yi, *Coordin. Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *473*, 214839; c) H. Tian, A. Song, P. Zhang, K. Sun, J. Wang, B. Sun, Q. Fan, G. Shao, C. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Li, G. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210714.
- [13] a) J. Tian, Y. Zhu, X. Yao, L. Yang, C. Du, Z. Lv, M. Hou, S. Zhang, X. Ma, C. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 5288; b) X. Yao, Y. Zhu, T. Xia, Z. Han, C. Du, L. Yang, J. Tian, X. Ma, J. Hou, C. Cao, *Small* **2023**, *19*, e2301075; c) Z. Q. Liu, X. Liang, F. X. Ma, Y. X. Xiong, G. Zhang, G. Chen, L. Zhen, C. Y. Xu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 13.
- [14] a) X. Yao, Y. Zhu, Z. Han, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *331*, 122675; b) T. De Villenoisy, X. Zheng, V. Wong, S. S. Mofarah, H. Arandiyan, Y. Yamauchi, P. Koshy, C. C. Sorrell, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210166.
- [15] a) L. Yang, Y. Zhu, X. Yao, C. Du, Z. Han, J. Tian, X. Liu, X. Ma, C. Cao, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *63*, 102972; b) J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196.
- [16] a) Z. Han, Y. Zhu, X. Yao, H. Peng, C. Du, J. Tian, L. Yang, X. Ma, J. Hou, C. Cao, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *337*, 122961; b) Y. Qu, Z. Li, W. Chen, Y. Lin, T. Yuan, Z. Yang, C. Zhao, J. Wang, C. Zhao, X. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 781.
- [17] M. Zhang, K. Zhang, X. Ai, X. Liang, Q. Zhang, H. Chen, X. Zou, *Chinese J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, 2987.
- [18] a) X. Yan, D. Liu, P. Guo, Y. He, X. Wang, Z. Li, H. Pan, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210975; b) L. Jiao, G. Wan, R. Zhang, H. Zhou, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 8525.
- [19] Y. Chen, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, D. Sun, X. Liu, L. Xu, Y. Tang, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806312.
- [20] S. S. Shinde, J. Y. Jung, N. K. Wagh, C. H. Lee, D.-H. Kim, S.-H. Kim, S. U. Lee, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 592.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [29] Y. Zhao, D. P. Adiyeri Saseendran, C. Huang, C. A. Triana, W. R. Marks,
- [22] C. Wang, Z. Wang, J. Yu, K. Lu, W. Bao, G. Wang, B. Peng, W. Peng, F. Yu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *454*, 140078. [30] Y. Xue, Y. Guo, Q. Zhang, Z. Xie, J. Wei, Z. Zhou, Navitas Express:
- [23] X. Li, L. Z. XiaoxuanLiu, Y. Z. HeLi, Y. G. HaiyanChen, Y. T. ShengwuLiu, G. QiangWu, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 7450.

[21] Y. Yuan, Q. Zhang, L. Yang, L. Wang, W. Shi, P. Liu, R. Gao, L. Zheng, Z. Chen, Z. Bai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2206081.

- [24] S. S. Shinde, C. H. Lee, J.-Y. Jung, N. K. Wagh, S.-H. Kim, D.- H. Kim, C. Lin, S. U. Lee, J.-H. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 727.
- [25] G. Chen, R. Lu, C. Li, J. Yu, X. Li, L. Ni, Q. Zhang, G. Zhu, S. Liu, J. Zhang, U. I. Kramm, Y. Zhao, G. Wu, J. Xie, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300907.
- [26] L.-J. Yuan, B. Liu, L.-x. Shen, Y.-K. Dai, Q. Li, C. Liu, W. Gong, X.-L. Sui, Z.-B. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2305945.
- [27] B. Chen, X. Zhong, G. Zhou, N. Zhao, H.-M. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2105812.
- [28] W. Jing, H. Shen, R. Qin, Q. Wu, K. Liu, N. Zheng, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 5948.

- H. Chen, H. Zhao, G. R. Patzke, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 6257.
- English version, **2022**, *14*, 12.
- [31] Z. Zhengping, S. Junting, W. Feng, D. Liming, *Angew. Chem.* **2018**, *57*, 9038.
- [32] Z. Li, M. Chen, L. Zhang, R. Xing, J. Hu, X. Huang, C. Zhou, Y. Zhou, T. Wgberg, G. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 2155.
- [33] a) Z. Li, H. Cheng, Y. Lu, T. Wang, Y. Li, W. Zhang, G. He, Z. Tian, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2203963; b) X. Wang, Y. Jia, X. Mao, D. Liu, W. He, J. Li, J. Liu, X. Yan, J. Chen, L. Song, A. Du, X. Yao, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000966.
- [34] Q. Cheng, L. Yang, L. Zou, Z. Zou, C. Chen, Z. Hu, H. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 6864.
- [35] P. Yu, L. Wang, F. Sun, Y. Xie, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1901666.
- [36] L. Li, X. Tang, B. Wu, B. Huang, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *36*, 2308326.
- [37] F. Cheng, J. Chen, *Cheminform* **2012**, *41*, 2172.