---
source: Pérez‐Rodríguez 等 - 2025 - Hierarchical Porous Fe3 C@Fe‐N‐C Catalysts from Tannin‐Fe(III) Complexes for Efficient Ox.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.406s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:01:40.263966Z
---

# **Hierarchical Porous Fe3C@Fe-N-C Catalysts from Tannin-Fe(III) Complexes for Efficient Oxygen Reduction**

*Sara Pérez-Rodríguez,\* Daniel Torres, María Teresa Izquierdo, Andrea Zitolo, Nicolas Bibent, Moulay Sougrati, Frédéric Jaouen, Alain Celzard, and Vanessa Fierro\**

**The rational design of metal-nitrogen-doped carbons (M-N-C) from available and cost-effective sources featuring high electrocatalytic performance and stability is attractive for the development of viable low-temperature fuel cells. Herein, mimosa tannin, an abundant polyphenol easily extracted from the Mimosa plant, is used as a natural carbon source to produce a tannin-Fe(III) coordination complex. This process is assisted by Pluronic F127, which acts as both a surfactant and a promoter of Fe-Nx active sites. After carbonization in the presence of urea as a nitrogen precursor, this organic tannin-Fe(III) framework produces Fe3C nanoparticles encapsulated on a Fe-N-C single-atom catalyst with hierarchical porosity. The optimal catalyst, with a Pluronic F127/mimosa tannin mass ratio of 0.5, exhibits high ORR performance in both alkaline and acidic electrolytes, with half-wave potentials of 0.87 and 0.74 V versus RHE, respectively. In addition, good performance is achieved in practical hydrogen polymer-electrolyte membrane fuel cells using OH<sup>−</sup>- or H<sup>+</sup>-conducting membranes with peak power densities of 242 and 200 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at cell voltages of 0.43 and 0.3 V, respectively. The synthetic approach can be explored to design new renewable M-N-C electrodes for electrochemical energy conversion or storage devices due to tannin's exceptional ability to coordinate metals.**

S. Pérez-Rodríguez, D. Torres, A. Celzard, V. Fierro Université de Lorraine CNRS, IJL, Epinal F-88000, France E-mail: [sperez@icb.csic.es;](mailto:sperez@icb.csic.es) [vanessa.fierro@univ-lorraine.fr](mailto:vanessa.fierro@univ-lorraine.fr) S. Pérez-Rodríguez, D. Torres, M. T. Izquierdo Instituto de Carboquímica (ICB-CSIC) Miguel Luesma Castan 4, Zaragoza E-50018, Spain A. Zitolo Synchrotron SOLEIL L'Orme des Merisiers Départementale 128, Saint-Aubin 91190, France N. Bibent, M. Sougrati, F. Jaouen ICGM Univ. Montpellier CNRS ENSCM Montpellier 34293, France A. Celzard Institut Universitaire de France (IUF) Paris F-75231, France

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202406887>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202406887**

## **1. Introduction**

As part of the future carbon-free transport scenario, proton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC) require new cathode catalysts to overcome the sluggish kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Until now, platinum group metal (PGM) catalysts have been the most effective, but they are expensive and their availability is limited. Metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C, M = Fe, Mn, etc.) materials containing atomically dispersed M-Nx sites have emerged as cost-effective alternatives to PGMs for the ORR.[\[1,2\]](#page-12-0) The metal centre plays a key role in performance, and Fe-N-C has proved to be the most promising PGM-free catalyst for the ORR in an acidic medium due to its high activity, close to that of the Pt/C reference cathode in PEMFC.[\[3–5\]](#page-12-0) In an alkaline medium, the activity of Fe-N-C materials is generally improved,[\[6,7\]](#page-13-0) with recent reports of high power density AEMFC using Fe-N-C cathodes.[\[8–10\]](#page-13-0)

Many routes have been proposed for the synthesis of Fe-N-C catalysts through the pyrolysis of different iron, nitrogen

and carbon sources.[\[1\]](#page-12-0) Enhanced and well-connected porosity has proved crucial for effective Fe-N-C cathodes, with micropores serving as coordination sites for Fe-Nx moieties[\[4,11,12\]](#page-13-0) and larger pores overcoming mass transport limitations.[\[13–15\]](#page-13-0) Hard templates (silica particles) have been used to increase the mesoporosity of single-atom catalysts,[\[9,16\]](#page-13-0) but this method typically requires the use of HF to remove the silica template and can result in pore collapse. In several remarkable contributions, the thermal conversion of porous organic polymers (POP) or metal-organic frameworks (MOF) has yielded hierarchical porous carbons with abundant atomically dispersed sites and unique ORR electrocatalytic performance.[\[17,18\]](#page-13-0)

In addition to atomically dispersed Fe-Nx moieties, hightemperature treatment for the synthesis of Fe-N-C catalysts often results in the formation of metal nanoparticles (metallic iron, iron carbide/nitride, iron oxide). Introducing Fe/Fe3C clusters wrapped in a few layers of graphene together with Fe-Nx moieties has been shown to increase the overall ORR activity of these Fe-N-C catalysts.[\[19–25\]](#page-13-0)

Despite significant progress in the ORR performance of Fe-N-C cathodes, further improvements in electrocatalytic activity

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthesis of tannin-Fe(III) coordination complex hydrochars (FeTHC-R*X*) and Fe-N-C (FeTC-R*X*) electrocatalysts derived from mimosa tannin.

are needed for practical application. Moreover, most current syntheses of Fe-N-C cathodes are generally petrochemical-related, due to the use of frameworks/monomers from organic chemistry, or the use of carbon supports (carbon blacks or expensive nanocarbons such as carbon nanotubes or graphene). Recently, Fe- and N- co-doped carbon materials derived from biomass have emerged as ORR catalysts due to their availability, low cost and environmental friendliness. Although promising results have been obtained from lab-scale studies involving rotating disk electrodes (RDE),[\[26–30\]](#page-13-0) biomass-derived Fe-N-C (or M-N-C) catalysts have rarely been characterized in full devices, and still exhibit lower ORR performance than state-of-the-art electrocatalysts.[\[31–38\]](#page-13-0) Therefore, it is necessary to design active and highly sustainable PGM-free cathode catalysts derived from bio-sourced carbon and nitrogen.

Tannins are among the most abundant components of plant biomass. These natural, non-toxic polyphenols are easily extracted from many plants, such as mimosa bark, quebracho or pine trees.[\[39,40\]](#page-13-0) Interestingly, tannins contain pyrogallol- and catechol-like units that can serve as coordination sites, resulting in stable tannin-metal complexes.[\[41\]](#page-13-0) However, the synthesis of metal-carbon hybrids from tannin as a carbon source for ORR catalysts has rarely been explored[\[42–44\]](#page-13-0) with only one pioneering work reporting the formation of Fe-Nx moieties from tannic acid.[\[45\]](#page-13-0)

Herein, we develop a simple method for the synthesis of Fe3C nanoparticles embedded in a Fe-N- co-doped carbon with a hierarchical micro-mesoporous structure by thermally activating biochars derived from mimosa tannin-Fe(III) complexes. The formation of mimosa tannin-Fe(III) complexes is assisted by Pluronic F127 (Pluronic-127), which serves as a porosityinducing agent and facilitates the dispersion of Fe-Nx sites during the carbonization of the hydrochar. The resulting Fe-N-C catalysts show excellent activity and durability for ORR in both alkaline and acidic electrolytes. The optimum catalyst with a Plurionic-127/tannin ratio of 0.5 achieves a peak power density of 242 and 200 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in AEMFC and PEMFC, respectively.

### **2. Results**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Mimosa Tannin-Derived Hydrochars and Electrocatalysts**

Fe and N co-doped carbon materials containing Fe3C nanoparticles are synthesised by a two-stage method involving catalytic graphitization of a tannin-Fe(III) coordination complex hydrochar (see the overall method in **Figure 1**). In the first stage, a hydrogel based on tannin-Fe(III) complexes is obtained by hydrothermal route in an autoclave. The formation of the tannin-Fe(III) coordination complex is assisted by Pluronic-127 which

promotes the formation of micelles, important for the development of porosity in the corresponding carbonized product. During this hydrothermal stage, the polyphenol (tannin) chains interact with Fe(III) ions and PEO units of Pluronic-127, generating a supramolecular assembly.[\[41\]](#page-13-0) Fe(III) acts as an inorganic crosslinker to chelate the phenolic hydroxyls of the tannin chains, thus forming a complex network.[\[46,47\]](#page-13-0) In this sense, mimosa tannins contain pyrogallol units that act as bidentate chelators for Fe(III) coordination, whose transition between mono-, bis-, or tricomplexation is pH-dependent.[\[46,48\]](#page-13-0) In addition to complexation, tannins can also auto-condense.[\[49,50\]](#page-13-0) Thanks to the hydrothermal process carried out at 130 °C, such polymerization process is accelerated, resulting in a reddish-brown solid precipitate of tannin-derived hydrochar that can be easily separated by filtration. This polyphenol-Fe(III) coordination framework is a potential precursor for the synthesis of atomically dispersed Fe on Ndoped porous carbon materials by pyrolysis of the hydrochar-urea mixture (as discussed below). The Pluronic-127/mimosa tannin ratio (*R*) was varied from 0 to 2, yielding four tannin-Fe(III) complex hydrochars (labeled FeTHC-R*X*). A detailed list of the hydrochars synthesized and their nomenclature is given in the Supporting Information (Table S1, Supporting Information).

The influence of FeCl3 addition during the hydrothermal stage on the structure of the resultant hydrochar was studied by Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Figure S1 (Supporting Information) shows the transmittance spectra of a selected hydrochar, FeTHC-R0.5, which resulted in the best ORR-performing catalyst (Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5)), as discussed later, and its Fe-free analogue, THC-R0.5. FTIR bands were identified based on assignments related to mimosa tannin spectra found in the literature.[\[51\]](#page-13-0) The complexation of Fe(III) by tannin was evidenced by the strong attenuation of the band attributed to the stretching of phenolic O─H bonds (mainly those of the pyrogallol unit) in the FTIR spectrum of FeTHC-R0.5 compared to that of THC-R0.5. Attenuation of this band has also been observed in tannin complexes with other metal cations such as Mg<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> or Ca2<sup>+</sup>. [\[52\]](#page-13-0) Moreover, the bands associated with aromatic C─O bond stretching (1115–1350 cm<sup>−</sup>1), originating mainly from resorcinol and pyrogallol units, and with aromatic C═C bond stretching (1510–1605 cm<sup>−</sup>1) were also attenuated in the spectrum of FeTHC-R0.5 compared with that of THC-R0.5.

In a second, solvent-free stage (see Figure [1\)](#page-1-0), urea and iron chloride are mixed-milled with the tannin-Fe(III) coordination complex hydrochar in a planetary ball mill, then pyrolyzed at 900 °C. These chemicals act as N and Fe precursors for the formation of Fe-Nx metal single-atom sites, which may form above *ca* 700 °C.[\[1\]](#page-12-0) Excess iron (iron added either during the first stage of FeTHC-R*X* preparation or the second stage) that is unable to form Fe-Nx sites generally leads to the formation of metallic iron or iron carbide during pyrolysis, which in turn catalyzes graphitization of the carbon network during high-temperature carbonization. Finally, the resultant powders are acid-washed with 1 m HCl. Four different electrocatalysts were thus prepared from tannin-Fe(III) hydrochars with an *R* of 0, 0.5, 1 and 2, respectively (labeled Fe-N-(FeTC-R*X*)). The nomenclature and experimental details are given in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

The bulk iron and nitrogen contents of the resultant catalysts, determined by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) and elemental analysis, are presented in Table S2 (Supporting Information). The tannin-derived electrocatalysts had Fe contents below 2.1 wt.% with similar N contents (1.48–1.62 wt.%), except for the material obtained with a Pluronic-127/mimosa tannin ratio of 0.5 (Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5)) with significant nitrogen enrichment of 2.95 wt.%. The latter electrocatalyst exhibited the best ORR electrocatalytic performance (as discussed below) and was further characterized by high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), as shown in **Figure 2**[a–f.](#page-3-0) HRTEM images of (Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5)) showed the clear coexistence of two carbon structures (Figure [2a\)](#page-3-0): hierarchical porous carbon microparticles with a well-defined pore size due to the formation of Pluronic-127-assisted micelles during hydrothermal treatment (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0) and a graphitic phase, generated in the carbonization process by the presence of iron (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). Graphite nanoshells cover the primary porous carbon structure, where residual metallic nanoparticles are embedded in a core/shell configuration (Figure [2d\)](#page-3-0). The graphite shell avoids metal removal during acid etching.[\[53\]](#page-13-0) Unprotected metal particles (i.e., particles not completely covered by graphite, with a low graphite thickness or a high number of defects in the graphite shell) are hydrolyzed in HCl, resulting in empty graphite shells (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0). Metal nanoparticles were confirmed as Fe3C by fast Fourier transforms (FFT) calculated from areas of different metal nanoparticles (Figure [2f;](#page-3-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information). These particles showed interplanar distances corresponding to orthorhombic Fe3C Pnma 62 (PDF#85-1317). Figure [2f](#page-3-0) also shows the d-spacing of (002) graphite. Regarding Fe-Nx moieties, aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) reveals the presence of atomically dispersed metal sites (Figure [2g](#page-3-0) and Figure S3, Supporting Information). Likewise, Fe and N were uniformly dispersed in the carbon sample, as revealed by elemental mapping using dispersive spectrometry (EDS) (Figure [2h\)](#page-3-0). In addition, Fe3C nanoparticles are also evident in the Fe mapping (large aggregates).

The presence of Fe3C (cohenite) and graphite in Fe-N-(FeTC-R*X*) catalysts was confirmed by X-Ray diffraction (XRD). **Figure [3](#page-4-0)**a shows the XRD pattern of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) as an example. The graphite phase is generated during the carbonization stage of tannin hydrochar in the presence of iron. Indeed, direct carbonization of a Fe-free hydrochar (THC-R0.5) resulted in an amorphous carbon material (TC-R0.5, see Figure S4, Supporting Information). Raman spectroscopy confirmed the higher graphitic order of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) compared to TC-R0.5, as evidenced by the ID/IG and I2D/IG ratios calculated for both samples (see Figure S5, Supporting Information). While I2D/IG is proportional to the number of graphene layers in graphitic stacks,[\[54\]](#page-13-0) ID/IG is related to the average size of the sp<sup>2</sup> domains, being inversely proportional to the lateral crystal size.[\[55\]](#page-13-0) Note that TC-R0.5 did not even exhibit a 2D peak, implying the high disorder of this carbon.

The surface chemistry of Fe-N-(FeTC-R*X*) catalysts was analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The survey spectrum revealed surface atomic contents in the range 0.9–1.6 at.% for nitrogen and 0.3–0.6 at.% for iron (see Table S3, Supporting Information). Interestingly, the N/Fe atomic ratio exceeds the value of 4 required for the complete utilization of Fe as a Fe-N4 species for catalysts synthesized under an *R* of 0.5 and 1. The high-resolution N1s XPS spectrum was deconvoluted into

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a–e) General TEM and HRTEM images of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5). f) HRTEM image of the Fe3C@graphite particle from image (d). g) Aberrationcorrected HAADF-STEM image of a graphite shell. h) STEM and EDS elemental mapping images.

5 nitrogen species: pyridinic (centered at 398 eV), Fe-coordinated (399.6 eV), pyrrolic (400.8 eV), graphitic (402.3 eV) and oxidized (NOx, 404.9 eV). These assignments are based on those reported in the literature.[\[26,56\]](#page-13-0) An example of a deconvoluted N1s spectrum is shown in Figure [3b](#page-4-0) for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5). The full results are shown in Figure S6a (Supporting Information). In general, tannin-derived electrocatalysts presented pyrrolic N as the main contribution (45.2–36.1%), followed by an N component potentially assigned to Fe-Nx sites (18.5–25.3%). Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) exhibited the highest relative amount of N-Fe coordination, with a

maximum relative nitrogen content of 25.3%, equivalent to a contribution of 0.35 at.% (taking into account the total N content determined by XPS). A progressive decrease in N-Fe coordination was observed as the amount of Pluronic-127 increased, as can be seen in Table S3 (Supporting Information). The Pluronic-free material also presented a lower N-Fe coordination contribution (0.25 at.%) compared to Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) (0.35 at.%). Finally, high-resolution Fe2p spectra revealed the coexistence of Fe(II) and Fe(III) in tannin-derived catalysts (Figure S6b, Supporting Information).

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) XRD pattern of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5). b) High-resolution N1s XPS deconvolution of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5). c) XANES spectra of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5), Fe3C, and metallic Fe foil references. d) FT-EXAFS spectra of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5), Fe3C, and metallic Fe foil references. The radial distance has not been corrected for phase shift. e) 57Fe Mössbauer spectrum of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and its fit with doublet and sextet spectral components. The spectrum was acquired at −268 °C, and the velocity scale is given as a function of the -Fe foil. Note: the 6th peak of the sextet assigned to Fe2O3 is not visible due to the restricted velocity scale of −8/+8 mm s<sup>−</sup>1.

The iron speciation of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) was examined using both X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra. The XANES spectrum of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) indicates the presence of Fe mainly in the zero-valent state, due to the absorption edge position (7112 eV) similar to that of a metallic foil or Fe3C reference (Figure 3c). In addition, the overall XANES spectral features are close to those of the reference Fe3C (Figure 3c), suggesting most of Fe is present as Fe3C in Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5). The Fourier transform of the EXAFS spectrum (FT-EXAFS) of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) indicates a signal at *ca* 1.5–1.7 Å that can generally be assigned to Fe-C, Fe-N, and/or Fe-O coordination, while the signal at 2.03 Å can be assigned to a Fe–Fe interaction (Figure 3d). The FT-EXAFS spectra of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and reference Fe3C are almost superimposed for all distances and comparable in amplitude. The minor presence of a Fe species other than Fe3C cannot be ruled out, however, as any secondary Fe species present at a relative content of 5% or less would not result in any significant difference in the XANES-EXAFS spectra.

To better identify and quantify the Fe species in Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5), its 57Fe Mössbauer spectrum was acquired at −268 °C and fitted with a number of spectral components (Figure 3e). The fitted spectrum shows a main sextet component (76% of the absorption signal) that can unambiguously be assigned to Fe3C based on its hyperfine field (HF) (Table S4, Supporting Information). A second sextet component was needed for the fit, which can be unambiguously assigned to Fe2O3 based on its values of HF and isomer shift (IS), and accounts for 10% of the absorption signal. In addition to these two sextet components related to well-defined magnetic phases of iron, the fit also reveals two doublet components labeled D1 and D2. The isomer shift (IS) and quadrupole splitting (QS) of these two doublets are in line with those reported for Fe-N-C materials comprising Fe in the form of atomically dispersed Fe-Nx sites.[\[57\]](#page-13-0) Recent theoretical and *operando* Mössbauer spectroscopy studies on Fe-N-C catalysts prepared from the pyrolysis of a Fe salt, N and C sources support that D2 is a Fe(II)-Nx site in a low- or medium-spin state, while D1 is a Fe(III)-Nx site in a high-spin state.[\[58\]](#page-13-0) The spectral parameters (IS, QS, and hyperfine field values) and the relative absorption area of each fitted component are reported in Table S4 (Supporting Information). In summary, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and Mössbauer spectroscopy results reveal that the majority of Fe is present as Fe3C (76%), with a co-existing minor amount of Fe-Nx sites (Fe(III)-Nx: 6% and Fe(II)-Nx: 8%) and Fe2O3 (10%).

The textural properties of the materials were assessed by the physisorption of N2 and H2. **Figure [4](#page-5-0)**a shows the N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms of the materials. Specific surface area (*SNLDFT*) and total pore volume (*VNLDFT*) were determined by the 2D non-local density functional theory for heterogeneous surfaces (2D-NLDFT-HS) combining N2 and H2 adsorption isotherms.[\[59,60\]](#page-13-0) The corresponding textural parameters are given in the Supporting Information (Table S5, Supporting Information). The catalyst synthesized with *R* = 0.5 has the highest specific surface area (*SNLDFT* = 849 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) and pore volume (*VNLDFT* = 0.65 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure [4b\)](#page-5-0). Higher Pluronic-127/mimosa tannin ratios resulted in reduced nitrogen adsorption capacity. On the other hand, the sample without Pluronic-127 (Fe-N-(FeTC-R0)) presented the least developed porosity (*SNLDFT* = 340 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup>

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Textural properties of tannin-derived catalysts obtained at different Pluronic-127/mimosa tannin mass ratios (*R*): a) N2 adsorption (solid curves) and desorption (dotted curves) isotherms at −196 °C; b) variations of *SNLDFT*, *Sμ,NLDFT* and *VNLDFT* with *R*; c) pore size distribution (PSD) determined by applying the NLDFT method to N2 and H2 isotherms. The inset shows cumulative pore volume as a function of average pore size.

and *VNLDFT* = 0.40 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1). These results demonstrate the clear role of the surfactant Pluronic-127 in the preparation of carbon materials with well-developed porosity. Regarding pore structure, N2 isotherms show H2-type hysteresis loops closing at P/P0 = 0.5 with a very steep desorption branch,[\[61\]](#page-13-0) characteristic of pore networks with multiple sizes or shapes. Indeed, Figure 4c evidences that all materials present a similar PSD with several peaks in the micropore and mesopore range. In all cases, a continuous PSD is observed throughout the pore range, attributed to an interconnected distribution of micro-mesopores. This is also confirmed by the cumulative pore volume as a function of average pore size (Figure 4c, inset), where the adsorbed volume steadily increases from narrow micropores to mesopores.

The above results show the hybrid carbon structure (hierarchical porous carbon and graphitic carbon) comprising dual Fe-Nx and Fe3C@graphite sites in the Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) catalyst. In addition, this material presents the highest surface area and an enhanced density of Fe-Nx sites, which translates into better electrocatalytic behavior for the ORR (as discussed below). To understand better the ORR performance of this catalyst, two reference materials were prepared following the same methodology as Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5), with the exception that no iron chloride was added during either the hydrothermal treatment or the carbonization of FeTHC-R0.5, thus corresponding to catalysts noted Fe-N-(TC-R0.5) and N-(FeTC-R0.5), respectively. Two further control samples were obtained by heat treatment at 900 °C of Fe-free and Fe-based hydrochars (THC-R0.5 and FeTHC-R0.5) in the absence of both FeCl3 and urea, denoted as TC-R0.5 and FeTC-R0.5, respectively.

XRD patterns (Figure S4, Supporting Information) showed that TC-R0.5 consists of a metal-free amorphous carbon material, while hydrochars pyrolyzed in the presence of iron led to the generation of Fe3C nanoparticles hosted in partially graphitized carbon materials. The formation of Fe3C nanoparticles was confirmed by HRTEM (see Figure S7, Supporting Information). A low nitrogen content was obtained for TC-R0.5 and FeTC-R0.5 (0.20–0.24 wt.%, determined by elemental analysis, Table S2, Supporting Information), characteristic of mimosa tannin. Materials treated with urea had a higher N content (0.93- 2.95 wt.%) with a maximum of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5). Besides pyridinic, pyrrolic, and graphitic N moieties, a peak at ≈399.6 eV in the deconvoluted N1s XPS spectra of the urea-treated materials (Figure S6a; Table S3, Supporting Information) indicates N-Fe coordination, consistent with synchrotron and Mössbauer results for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5).

Physisorption data revealed considerable differences in the textural properties of the as-synthesized catalysts (Figure S8 and Table S5, Supporting Information). The carbon obtained from the Fe-free hydrochar (TC-R0.5) exhibited a specific surface area of 1068 m2 g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with a significant mesoporous contribution (centered on 5.5 nm, see PSD in Figure S8, Supporting Information) originating from the surfactant Pluronic-127 during heat treatment at 900 °C. The formation of the tannin-Fe(III) complex was accompanied by the creation of more closed structures resulting in a carbon material with a higher fraction of microporosity (50% vs 39% of pore volume for FeTC-R0.5 and TC-R0.5, respectively). The introduction of urea alone during pyrolysis of Fe-containing hydrochar does not substantially affect the texture, as suggested by the similar N2 adsorption/desorption behavior of FeTC-R0.5 and its analog obtained in the presence of urea, N-(FeTC-R0.5). In contrast, the addition of both urea and an extra amount of FeCl3 in the heat treatment led to an outstanding widening of the mesoporosity. Indeed, the average mesopore size increased from 5.23 and 8.17 nm for TC-R0.5 and FeTC-R0.5, respectively, to 17.36 and 16.19 for their respective counterparts pyrolyzed with urea and the extra addition of FeCl3 (Table S5, Supporting Information). This is confirmed by the pore size distribution: a significant contribution of pores *>*10 nm was observed for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and Fe-N-(TC-R0.5).

#### **2.2. Understanding the Electrocatalytic Performance of Tannin-Derived Electrocatalysts**

The ORR performance of the tannin-derived electrocatalysts in alkaline (0.1 M KOH) and acidic (0.5 m H2SO4) electrolytes was assessed using a rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE). **Figure [5](#page-6-0)**a shows linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (negative-going scan) in O2-saturated aqueous solutions of 0.1 m KOH (top) and 0.5 m H2SO4 (bottom) at 1600 rpm and 5 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of Fe-N- (FeTC-R0.5) and reference counterparts. A Pt/C (20 wt.% Pt loading, grey curves) reference is also included for comparison. The ORR activity parameters are summarized in Table S6 (Supporting Information).

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5), reference materials, and Pt/C catalysts in O2-saturated aqueous solutions of 0.1 m KOH (top) and 0.5 m H2SO4 (bottom) at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and 1600 rpm. b) H2O2 yield versus applied potential. c) electron transfer number versus applied potential.

Direct pyrolysis of hydrochars shows the worst electrocatalytic activity with half-wave potentials (*E*1/2) of 0.68 and 0.65 V in 0.1 M KOH for FeTC-R0.5 and TC-R0.5, respectively (Table S6, Supporting Information, top of Figure 5a). The poor activity of these materials is also revealed by a high H2O2 yield of 33.1 and 44.2% at 0.7 V versus RHE (top of Figure 5b), corresponding to an electron-transfer number of 3.33 and 3.12 determined by considering ring and disk currents, respectively (top of Figure 5c). These results indicate a mixed two- and four-electron transfer mechanism for pyrolyzed hydrochars. After mechanochemical introduction of urea only in the hydrochar derived from the tannin-Fe(III) complex and subsequent pyrolysis at 900 °C (denoted as N-(FeTC-R0.5)), improved activity was achieved with more positive onset (0.84 V) and *E*1/2 potentials (0.72 V) in the alkaline electrolyte, compared with directly carbonized hydrochars. Similarly, N-(FeTC-R0.5) gives a significantly lower H2O2 yield at 0.7 V, with an electron transfer number (*n*) of 3.51. Besides urea, further addition of FeCl3 during pyrolysis of FeTHC-R0.5 is required to achieve Pt-like ORR performance. The LSV curve of the Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) catalyst shows excellent catalytic behavior for the ORR in 0.1 m KOH, with an *E*1/2 of 0.87 V, which is 37 mV more positive than commercial Pt/C. In addition, the amount of peroxide was greatly reduced with an average electron transfer of ≈3.97 at 0.70 V, which slightly exceeds that of commercial Pt/C (3.95). Similarly, the top of Figure 5 shows that the addition of FeCl3 is not only essential during the pyrolysis of hydrochars in the presence of urea (stage 2) but also in the sol-gel assisted hydrothermal synthesis of tannin-Fe(III) complexes (stage 1). The absence of FeCl3 in the mixture of tannin and Pluronic-127 in water during this first hydrothermal stage results in an inhibition of the ORR performance of the resultant catalyst, Fe-N-(TC-R0.5), compared to that obtained with the material-derived from Fe-containing hydrochar, Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5).

Tannin-derived catalysts were also investigated in an acidic environment, 0.5 m H2SO4 (bottom of Figure 5). LSV curves confirmed a similar trend as in an alkaline medium. The ORR activity increases following the sequence: TC-R0.5 *<* FeTC-R0.5 *<* N-(FeTC-R0.5) *<* Fe-N-(TC-R0.5) *<* Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) with onset potentials of 0.46, 0.56, 0.68, 0.69, 0.85 V versus RHE, respectively. Unfortunately, the directly carbonized Fe-free hydrochar shows a very high overpotential and cannot reach a current density plateau. The introduction of N functionalities and the addition of FeCl3 during either the hydrothermal step or the milling step prior to pyrolysis are again essential to promote the ORR performance in an acidic medium. Indeed, Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) exhibits an onset potential and *E*1/2 of 0.85 and 0.74 V, respectively, and achieves a limiting current density of −4.97 mAcm<sup>−</sup>2, equal to that of commercial Pt/C.

The differences in ORR performance observed for the materials are ascribed to differences in the active sites. The poor activity of FeTC-R0.5 compared with TC-R0.5 reveals that the presence of graphite-encapsulated Fe3C nanoparticles does not result in a significant improvement in oxygen reduction capability. Further addition of FeCl3 during the pyrolysis of FeTHC-R0.5 also failed to improve the ORR performance (Figure S9, Supporting Information). N-doped catalysts (N-(FeTC-R0.5), Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and Fe-N-(TC-R0.5)) presented a superior ORR activity, evidencing the importance of N functionalities, such as pyridinic-N, on the activity for oxygen reduction.[\[62,63\]](#page-13-0) Moreover, the ORR performance in both 0.1 m KOH and 0.5 m H2SO4 correlates with the N content determined by XPS for the catalysts: as N content increases, better oxygen reduction activity is observed in the order N-(FeTC-R0.5) *<* Fe-N-(TC-R0.5) *<* Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) with surface N amounts of 0.7, 1.0 and 1.4 at.%, respectively (Table S3, Supporting Information). Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) also exhibits a high density of Fe-Nx sites, as corroborated by 57Fe Mössbauer and

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** LSV curves at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and 1600 rpm of tannin-derived catalysts obtained with different Pluronic-127/mimosa tannin mass ratios (*R*) in O2-saturated aqueous solutions of a) 0.1 m KOH, and b) 0.5 m H2SO4. c) *E1/2* and electron transfer number as a function of *R* in both alkaline and acidic electrolytes. Onset potential and *E1/2* as a function of the total contribution of surface N-Fe coordinated species and pyridinic N determined by XPS in d) alkaline and e) acidic electrolytes for electrocatalysts obtained from Fe-containing tannin-derived hydrochars. f) The total contribution of N-Fe coordinated species obtained by XPS as a function of average micropore size for electrocatalysts prepared from Fe-containing tannin-derived hydrochars. The dashed line is a guide to the eye.

XPS. These results suggest that the extra addition of FeCl3 during the second stage (pyrolysis) is essential to increase the density of N sites (Fe-Nx and pyridinic-N) and, consequently, to improve ORR performance in alkaline and acidic electrolytes.

According to previous works,[\[64–66\]](#page-13-0) Fe-Nx moieties and pyridinic-N are considered the primary and secondary active sites in Fe-N-C catalysts. Moreover, Fe/Fe3C nanoparticles embedded in graphite layers have been reported to promote the ORR activity of Fe-Nx sites.[\[19–25\]](#page-13-0) In alkaline media, density functional theory (DFT) calculations have shown that this improvement is due to the increased electron density at the metal center of Fe-Nx moieties by the presence of Fe/Fe3C cores, which boosts oxygen adsorption and turnover frequency (TOF).[\[19–21,67\]](#page-13-0) The role of iron clusters on the ORR in acidic media has been less investigated than in alkaline media, but several studies have reported that carbon-encapsulated zero-valent iron particles can have an impact on the TOF of Fe-Nx sites.[\[23,68\]](#page-13-0) A decrease in the kinetic barrier for oxygen reduction has also been found in N-doped carbons featuring Fe/Fe3C@graphite nanoparticles.[\[24,69,70\]](#page-13-0) Although Fe3C nanoparticles encased by graphitic layers are not direct ORR active sites since they are not in contact with oxygen or the electrolyte, an enhancement of the ORR activity by electron transfer from Fe3C cores to Fe-Nx moieties cannot be discarded in tannin-derived electrocatalysts.

LSV tests in 0.1 m KOH and 0.5 m H2SO4 of electrocatalysts synthesized by the same two-stage approach but with different Pluronic-127 contents in the hydrothermal treatment provided further insight into the ORR performance of tannin-derived catalysts, see **Figure 6**a,b. As explained above, the catalyst synthesized with an *R* of 0.5 achieved outstanding ORR performance in both 0.1 m KOH and 0.5 m H2SO4. An increase in Pluronic-127 content during the self-assembly of mimosa tannin led to a negative shift in *E*1/2 potentials in both basic and acidic media and to a lower *n* (Figure 6c; see also Figure S10 and Table S6, Supporting Information). Similarly, the sample without Pluronic-127 (Fe-N-(FeTC-R0)) exhibited the poorest activity for oxygen reduction with the lowest *E*1/2 and *n* in both electrolytes.

Since Fe3C nanoparticles are not direct active sites for ORR, as discussed above, this behavior appears to be related to differences in N sites. A clear linear correlation of the onset potential and *E*1/2 as a function of the total amount of N-Fe coordinated species and pyridinic N (based on XPS deconvolution) was found in both basic (Figure 6d) and acidic (Figure 6e) electrolytes for the materials obtained from tannin-Fe(III) hydrochars. In order to individualize the contribution of N sites to the overall activity, analogous plots were obtained considering the relative distribution of N moieties within the total N amount (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The highest determination coefficients (R2) were obtained for N-Fe coordination species, followed by pyridinic N. These results show that efficient anchoring of Fe-Nx sites is essential to obtain active Fe3C@Fe-N-C catalysts derived from tannin.

According to previous works,[\[11,12,14\]](#page-13-0) an increase in microporous surface area leads to greater coordination of Fe atoms since

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) Tafel plots of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and Pt/C catalysts in 0.1 m KOH (top) and 0.5 m H2SO4 (bottom) aqueous solutions saturated with oxygen at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and 1600 rpm. b) LSV curves before (solid curves) and after (dashed curves) 3000 cycles from 0.6 to 1.0 V versus RHE at 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH (top) or 0.5 m H2SO4 (bottom) aqueous solutions for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and Pt/C. c) Comparison of *E*1/2 and durability of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) with those of other biomass-derived M-N-C catalysts from the literature. Solid symbols represent current retentions after holding the potential for 10 000–16 000 s and empty symbols represent medium-term stability tests (20 000–36 000 s). Referenced works and experimental details can be found in Table S7 (Supporting Information).

Fe-Nx sites are preferentially integrated in micropores. In this context, Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) presented the most developed micropore surface area of 778 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1, coinciding with the greatest anchoring of N-Fe species with a content of 0.35 at.%, and also with the highest electrocatalytic ORR performance. Moreover, micropore size also seems to play a decisive role in the interaction between the carbon matrix and the iron and nitrogen precursors during pyrolysis and, therefore, in the resulting density of atomically dispersed Fe-Nx moieties.[\[71\]](#page-14-0) Figure [6f](#page-7-0) illustrates a trend between the average micropore size obtained by NLDFT (*w*μ,av-NLDFT) and the N-Fe atomic content of tannin-derived electrocatalysts. Finally, the presence of mesopores is also important in facilitating oxygen diffusion to the metal centers, resulting in greater utilization of active sites and thus improving the ORR electrocatalytic activity.[\[13–15\]](#page-13-0) In this way, the unique textural features of Fe-N- (FeTC-R0.5) with maximum micropore surface area and an average micropore size of 0.87 nm, but with a significant contribution from mesoporosity (55% of pore volume) enabled great utilization of Fe-Nx sites. Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) also exhibited the largest amount of pyridinic N, which is well known to be active for ORR.[\[62\]](#page-13-0) Consequently, this catalyst provided improved oxygen reduction conditions in both alkaline and acidic media, comparable to (or better than) other recently reported high-performance Fe-N-C ORR catalysts derived from biomass resources, such as wood, sugarcane or pig blood waste (see Tables S7 and S8, Supporting Information).

The electrode-electrolyte interface during ORR of the optimum catalyst was further evaluated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The effect of applied potential on the impedance spectra for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) in alkaline and acidic media is shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). Polarization resistance (*Rp*, diameter of the semi-circle in the Nyquist plot) reached a minimum in the mixed kinetic-diffusion controlled region (potential close to *E1/2*). At lower overpotentials, *Rp* increased due to the contribution from the charge-transfer process, while impedance was dominated by oxygen diffusion from the bulk of the electrolyte to the active sites at higher overpotentials.[\[72,73\]](#page-14-0)

Tafel plots were used to investigate the ORR mechanism and inherent kinetics of tannin-derived electrocatalysts. The IR-free potential was determined by compensating for the Ohmic potential drop. Tafel slopes (*b*) of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and commercial Pt/C in alkaline and acidic electrolytes are given in **Figure 7**a. A Tafel slope of *ca* 60 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> was obtained in the low overpotential region for the optimum catalyst in both electrolytes, as in the case of commercial Pt/C. Tannin-derived electrocatalysts synthesized under different *R* ratios or control materials (FeTC-R0.5, TC-R0.5, N-(FeTC-R0.5) and Fe-N-(TC-R0.5)) presented higher Tafel values in both electrolytes (in particular in 0.5 m H2SO4), evidencing the improved ORR kinetics of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) (see Figure S13, Supporting Information).

The catalytic stability of the optimized sample and the 20 wt.% Pt/C commercial catalyst was assessed in 0.1 m KOH and 0.5 m H2SO4 by continuous electrochemical cycling from 0.6 to 1.0 V versus RHE at 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for 3000 cycles. After accelerated stability tests (ASTs) in an alkaline medium (top of Figure 7b), no evident degradation is observed for Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) with even a slight positive shift of 3 mV in the *E*1/2, whereas Pt/C shows

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 8. a) Full device characterization of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) cathode catalyst performance in polymer electrolyte fuel cells. PEMFC polarization curve with 4.1 mg FeNC cm<sup>-2</sup> at the cathode and 0.5 mg<sub>Pt</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> at the anode (red curve) and AEMFC polarization with 1 mg FeNC cm<sup>-2</sup> at the cathode and 0.5 mg<sub>PtRu</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup> at the anode (blue curve). For both PEMFC and AEMFC, pure  $O_2$  and pure  $H_2$  were used and humidified before being fed into the cathode and anode sides, respectively. The cell temperature was 80 °C for the PEMFC and 60 °C for the AEMFC. Flow rates were 0.15 slpm H<sub>2</sub> / 0.15 slpm O<sub>2</sub> for PEMFC, 1 slpm H<sub>2</sub> / 0.5 slpm O<sub>2</sub> for AEMFC, and humidifier temperatures were 80 °C for the PEMFC (identical on both sides) and 55 °C the AEMFC ((identical on both sides). Comparison of performance of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) and other biomass-derived M-N-C catalysts from the literature in b) AEMFC, and c) PEMFC. Figure 8b includes only works obtained with Fumatech membranes for a better comparison, since AEMFC performance is highly dependent on AEM properties for conductivity but also on water management issues. Referenced works and experimental details can be found in Table S8 (Supporting Information).

a 20-mV loss. Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) also presents satisfactory durability in an acidic medium (bottom of Figure 7b) with a loss of 24 mV in  $E_{1/2}$  after 3000 cycles.

The stability of the optimum catalyst was also evaluated by chronoamperometric measurements at 1600 rpm and 0.7 V versus RHE in the alkaline electrolyte and at 0.6 V versus RHE in the acidic medium under continuous oxygen bubbling (Figure S14, Supporting Information). After 10 h of potentiostatic testing, the Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) catalyst presented a current retention of 95 and 79% in 0.1 m KOH and 0.5 m H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> aqueous solutions, respectively. Moreover, the double-layer current density remained similar after potential holding, evidencing that no (significant) degradation phenomena of the catalyst occurred in both electrolytes (Figure S15, Supporting Information). Figure 7c (see Table S7, Supporting Information for experimental details) compares the initial activity ( $E_{1/2}$ ) and current retention of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) with those of biomass-derived Fe-N-C catalysts from the literature, highlighting the excellent performance and stability of the synthesized catalyst in both electrolytes, but particularly in 0.1 M KOH. This enhanced catalytic stability of the optimized sample may be explained by a combination of: i) the incorporation of sufficient number of atomically dispersed Fe-N<sub>x</sub> sites with a preferential 4-electron reaction pathway, and thus a lower risk of demetallation by H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> radicals, [74,75] ii) the encapsulation of iron carbide in carbon shells, which prevents the nanoparticles from agglomerating, sintering and dissolving, [23] and; iii) the high degree of carbon graphitization, which enhances the oxidation tolerance of the carbon matrix.<sup>[76]</sup> Moreover, the tannin-derived catalyst also presents good methanol tolerance (Figure S16, Supporting Information), which is attractive for practical use as a cathode in direct methanol fuel cells.

#### 2.3. Catalyst Performance in PEMFC and AEMFC

The Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) material was selected based on its high ORR activity identified in RRDE configuration, for evaluation

in polymer electrolyte fuel cells. For PEMFC, we used a Nafion NRE-211 and Nafion ionomer, while for AEMFC, we used anionexchange membrane (AEM) and anion-exchange ionomer (AEI) materials under development from Fumatech (see Experimental section). The preparation of the membrane electrode assembly (MEA) also differs for PEMFC and AEMFC, and we here used methods that have previously been applied in our laboratory to test Fe-N-C materials in PEM or AEM environments.[58,77-79] The main differences to note are the higher Fe-N-C loading at the PEMFC cathode compared with that at the AEMFC cathode (ca 4 and 1 mg <sub>Fe-N-C</sub> cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively) and the Fe-N-C deposition method (drop casting Fe-N-C ink onto the microporous layer of a gas diffusion layer (GDL) for PEMFC versus spraying the ink onto a GDL free of microporous layer for AEMFC). These methods have been optimized separately for PEMFC and AEMFC environments, and the main reasons for the different loadings and methods chosen are the higher ORR activity of Fe-N-C in an alkaline environment compared with an acidic one, and the generally higher swelling of AEI compared with Nafion ionomer.

Figure 8a shows the PEMFC polarization curve and the corresponding power density versus the potential curve with the Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) cathode (red curves). The polarization curve shows an exponential shape at low current densities, due to the overpotential required to drive the ORR, followed by an overall linear E-I trend at higher current densities, which is the combined result of kinetic, Ohmic, and mass transport limitations. The AEMFC polarization curve with the same Fe-N-C material at the cathode has a distinct shape, as shown in Figure 8a (blue curves), with little or no exponential part at low current densities and an overall linear E-I trend, which may however be the result of the combined effects of Ohmic, but also kinetic and mass transport losses. The absence of clear exponential part at low current density in AEMFC can be assigned to the fact that the HOR is a slow reaction in alkaline medium and contributes with a kinetic overpotential (adding to the ORR kinetic overpotential), while HOR on Pt in acidic medium is considered a fast and almost reversible reaction, and

the voltage loss for the PEMFC at low current density is therefore dominated by Tafel's law for the ORR. In the low-to-medium current density range (0-200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), initial performance with the cathode material Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) is much higher in the AEMFC than in the PEMFC, despite a four-fold lower Fe-N-C loading. For example, at 200 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2, the voltage of the AEMFC is 0.68 V while it is only 0.51 V for the PEMFC. This improved performance at low current density despite the use of the same Fe-N-C catalytic material at the cathode can be explained by the much higher ORR activity in alkaline than in acidic medium measured in RRDE configuration for this Fe-N-C material (Figure [6c\)](#page-7-0), characterized by a high fraction of Fe present in the form of Fe3C particles. Such Fe species have low intrinsic ORR activity in acidic medium, but significant activity in alkaline medium.[\[20,24\]](#page-13-0) At higher current densities, the gap between the polarization curves of AEMFC and PEMFC progressively decreases, with similar cell voltages observed above 650 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Similar peak power densities of 242 and 200 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> were obtained at cell voltages of 0.43 and 0.3 V for AEMFC and PEMFC, respectively.

The results show that the tannin-derived Fe-N-C material has a promising ORR activity for application in alkaline media. Particle size, particle morphology, and cathode preparation certainly need to be optimized to further improve AEMFC performance, given that Fe-N-C materials with similar intrinsic ORR activity to the present Fe-N-C (as measured in the RRDE configuration) have shown higher AEMFC performance.[\[8,10,80\]](#page-13-0) As will be discussed in more detail below, AEMFC performance is the result of many factors, making it difficult to compare AEMFC performance between laboratories,[\[10\]](#page-13-0) not least because of the high sensitivity of AEMFC performance to water management. Although the literature on biomass-derived ORR catalysts is already quite abundant with comprehensive reviews published,[\[29,81,82\]](#page-13-0) most studies have evaluated these materials primarily for ORR in an alkaline medium, and limited to the RDE environment, implying that these materials have been investigated when catalyzing the ORR at low current densities. The morphology, hydrophobicity, and pore size distribution of biomass-derived Fe-N-C materials are generally very different from those of Fe-N-C materials and stateof-art Pt/C catalysts derived from synthetic chemical reagents and/or established carbon black electrocatalytic supports (used for Pt/C, as well as for some Fe-N-C). This implies that the proper implementation of biomass-derived ORR catalytic materials in different electrochemical devices will require dedicated and significant efforts. To date, biomass-derived PGM-free catalysts have mainly been investigated at the positive electrode of Zn/air batteries, while only a few recent studies have investigated them at the cathode of H2/O2 AEMFC.

A comparison of the ORR performance of Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) with other biomass-derived M-N-C catalysts is given in Table S8 (Supporting Information). In general, the peak power density (PPD) reported here for the tannin-derived electrocatalyst (242 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2) is higher than previously reported values for biomass-derived M-N-C catalysts (in the range of 23–172 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2) when tested at the cathode of an H2/O2 AEMFC using a 50 μm-thick membrane from Fumatech[\[33,35,38\]](#page-13-0) (see Figure [8b\)](#page-9-0). The low performance of the AEMFC, despite high ORR activity in RDE configuration under alkaline conditions, can be assigned to the thick AEM used in these works, which leads to poor water management. In this sense, Yassin et al[\[77\]](#page-14-0) showed that the AEMFC power density with a given Fe-N-C cathode and under the same operating conditions was increased by a factor of *ca* ×10 by going from a 50 μm- to a 10 μm-thick AEM while maintaining the same AEM chemistry.

Studies based on PGM-free catalysts derived from biomass using a thinner membrane have reported better ORR performance.[\[31,32,36\]](#page-13-0) In the work of Kim et al.,[\[32\]](#page-13-0) Fe-N-C materials with single iron atom sites were prepared from pig blood, and the porosity was optimized with Zn porogen and pyrolysis under NH3. H2/O2 AEMFC current density up to *ca* 700 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a PPD of 230 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was achieved with a Fe-N-C loading of 1 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 60 °C, and with a 20 μm-thick Fumatech AEM. A similar ORR performance was found by Muhyuddin et al.[\[36\]](#page-13-0) using a bimetallic Fe-Mn-N-C (L\_FeMn) catalyst derived from lignin. When L\_FeMn was applied to a practical AEMFC system, a PPD of 261 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was obtained with a 10 μm-thick hand-made AEM and a catalyst loading of 1 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2. These results are comparable to results obtained in the present work using a monometallic Fe-N-C catalyst featuring Fe-Nx sites and graphite-encapsulated Fe3C nanoparticles. Interestingly, Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) exhibits better ORR performance as a cathode in a PEMFC with a power density of 200 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the current density of 660 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which outperforms L\_FeMn (≈72 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the current density of ≈292 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2).

In addition to membrane thickness, the nature of the membrane and cell temperature can also significantly influence ORR performance in AEMFC. In this sense, Teppor et al.[\[31\]](#page-13-0) recently developed a hierarchical porous Fe-N-C catalyst containing Fe2P nanoparticles derived from peat as the carbon precursor. A peak power density of 1.06 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was achieved with a catalyst loading of 1 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a 20 μm-thick Xion Pention AEM operating at 80 °C. The authors attributed the high ORR performance to the enhanced porosity of the catalyst and the presence of Fe2P nanoparticles embedded in the carbon matrix, which can boost ORR activity.[\[83\]](#page-14-0) Moreover, this performance can be also due to the Xion-Pention membrane that was used and produced 3.4 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a Pt/C cathode,[\[84\]](#page-14-0) one of the highest outputs using commercial AEMs.[\[85\]](#page-14-0)

Thus, although AEMFC measurements are obviously not related to the properties of the PGM-free cathode catalyst alone, and the comparison is therefore only illustrative, the present work clearly represents a significant advance in demonstrating the potential of biomass-derived PGM-free catalysts for AEMFC cathodes. Moreover, ORR performance in a PEMFC is also satisfactory, reaching a peak power density of 200 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [8c\)](#page-9-0). A similar PPD, 210 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, was achieved for a peat-derived carbon catalyst co-doped with cobalt and nitrogen (Co-N/C-3(ZnCl2)), using a catalyst loading of 4 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> but with a higher metal content (3.6 wt.% of Co vs 1.8 wt.% of Fe in Fe-N- (FeTC-R0.5)).[\[37\]](#page-13-0)

# **3. Conclusion**

Tannin-Fe(III) complexes are excellent precursors for producing N- and Fe-co-doped porous carbons with Fe-Nx sites and Fe3C@graphite nanoparticles, showing high electrocatalytic activity for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Pluronic F127 tailors porosity but also the density of Fe-Nx sites, which are

\_small

an ASAP 2420 Micromeritics system. The specific area of the materials ( $A_{BET}$ , m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) was determined by the BET method using Microactive software (Micromeritics). The pore size distribution (PSD) was obtained by the 2D-NLDFT-HS combining both N<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub> adsorption isotherms using SAIEUS software (Micromeritics). [59,60] This method was also applied to assess specific surface area ( $S_{NLDFT}$ , m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), total pore volume ( $V_{NLDFT}$ , cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), micropore volume ( $V_{MES,NLDFT} = V_{NLDFT} - V_{\mu,NLDFT}$ ).

FTIR transmittance spectra of tannin-derived hydrochars were analyzed using a Spectrum Two FTIR spectrometer (Perkin Elmer) by the attenuated total reflection (ATR) method. Transmittance spectra were recorded in the range from 600 to 3750 cm<sup>-1</sup> with 10 scans and a resolution of 4 cm<sup>-1</sup>.

HRTEM micrographs were obtained using a Jeol ARM 200F electron microscope. An analytical Titan microscope (300 kV) equipped with an energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) spectrometer was used for recording aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM micrographs.

The composition of the as-synthesized materials was studied by ICP-AES, elemental analysis, and XPS. The total iron loading of the electrocatalysts was determined by ICP-AES using a Jobin Yvon 2000 spectrometer. Elemental analysis (C, N, S, H) was performed in a Vario EL Cube analyzer (Elementar). XPS spectra were acquired with an ES-CAPlus OMICROM instrument equipped with a non-monochromatized MgKa X-ray source operating at 150 W. Survey scans were recorded with a 50-eV pass energy, while a value of 20 eV was used for C1s, O1s, Fe2p and N1s high-resolution scans. Binding energies were calibrated taking into account the C1s peak at 284.5 eV. Shirley-type background subtraction, peak fitting, and quantification were performed using CASA software

XRD patterns were obtained with a D8 Advance Series 2 diffractometer (Bruker) in a range of Bragg angles ( $2\theta$ ) from 10 to 80° (counting step = 0.01°, acquisition time = 4 s).

Raman spectra were acquired with a LabRAM HR800 UV Raman spectroscope (Horiba Jobin-Yvon) equipped with a CCD detector. Scans (10 per sample) were recorded from 100 to 3500 cm $^{-1}$  at 532 nm.  $\rm I_D/I_G$  ratios of tannin-derived electrocatalysts were obtained from the peak intensities ascribed to disordered (D) and graphitic (G) carbon bands.  $\rm ^{[54]}$  The 2D band is the D-peak overtone.

Fe K-edge XAS spectra were measured at the SAMBA beamline (Synchrotron SOLEIL), at room temperature in transmission mode. The beamline is equipped with a sagittally focusing Si 220 monochromator and two Pd-coated mirrors used to eliminate X-ray harmonics. The catalysts were pelletized into 10 mm diameter disks using boron nitride as a binder.

 $^{57}$ Fe Mössbauer spectra were obtained at -268 °C. A CMCA-550 (Wissel) equipped with a constant electronic drive system, a triangular reference wave form (Halder Electronics), and a  $^{57}$ Co/Rh  $\gamma$ -ray source were used. Velocity scale and isomer shift were calibrated with a foil of Fe  $\alpha$  (25 μm thick, purity 99.99%).

Electrochemical Characterization: Electrochemical measurements were carried out in a three-electrode cell. The working electrode was prepared by drop-casting a thin, smooth layer of the catalyst ink on an RRDE (Metrohm) with a 5 mm diameter glassy carbon (GC) disk and a platinum ring. Catalyst inks were prepared by dispersing the catalyst (2 mg mL<sup>-1</sup>) in a dispersion of water/isopropanol (4/1, v/v) and Nafion (5 wt.%, Sigma-Aldrich) under sonication. The catalyst loading on the RRDE was 0.6 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. A reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) placed inside a Lugging capillary and a graphite electrode (Gamry) were used as reference and counter electrodes. An Autolab potentiostat / galvanostat (PGSTAT302N, Metrohm) was used to monitor the electrochemical data.

The activity of the electrocatalysts was studied in both alkaline and acidic media. Aqueous solutions of 0.1 m KOH and 0.5 M  $\rm H_2SO_4$  prepared with 99.99% KOH (Alfa Aesar, 99.98% metal basis) or concentrated  $\rm H_2SO_4$  (Fisher, 96–98%), respectively, and milli-Q water (18.2  $\rm M\Omega$  cm) were used as electrolytes. To study non-Faradaic processes, cyclic voltam-mograms (CV) were recorded in deaerated electrolytes from 0.05 to 1 V versus RHE with a scan rate of 0.02 V s $^{-1}$ . To study the ORR, disk current was measured during LSV from 0.05 to 1 V at 5 mV s $^{-1}$  and 1600 rpm in the oxygen-saturated electrolyte, then corrected for background disk current measured under the same conditions but in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolytes

crucial in determining the onset and half-wave potentials ( $E_{1/2}$ ). The optimum catalyst, Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) outperformed Pt/C with an  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.87 V versus RHE in 0.1 M KOH compared to 0.83 V. Improved activity was also achieved in 0.5 M  $\rm H_2SO_4$  with an  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.74 V versus RHE. The superior ORR performance is due to the effective decoration by Fe-N $_{\rm x}$  sites and Fe $_{\rm 3}$ C nanoparticles in a micro-mesoporous N-doped carbon structure. In AEMFC and PEMFC tests, the catalyst achieved peak power densities of 242 and 200 mW cm $^{-2}$ , respectively. Given the wide availability of mimosa tannin and the excellent ORR performance of the catalyst, the material Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) presents itself as a very promising and environmentally friendly alternative to platinum group metals for use in energy conversion devices.

#### 4. Experimental Section

Hydrothermal Synthesis of Hydrochars from Tannin-Fe(III) Coordination Complexes: Hydrochars derived from tannin-Fe(III) were obtained by hydrothermal treatment of a mimosa tannin extract (80-82% phenolics, Silvachimica S.r.l., Italy) in the presence of a surfactant (Pluronic F-127, Sigma-Aldrich, hereinafter referred to as Pluronic-127), and FeCl<sub>3</sub> (Sigma-Aldrich, 98%). Briefly, in an optimized synthesis, 1 g Pluronic-127 and 1 g FeCl<sub>2</sub> are completely dissolved in 16 mL deionized water at room temperature. Next, 2 g mimosa tannin is slowly added to the solution under stirring and subsequent sonication in an ultrasonic bath. The resulting mixture is transferred to a 100 mL Anton Parr autoclave and hydrothermally treated at 130 °C for 24 h. After the treatment, the hydrochar composed of tannin-Fe(III) coordination complexes is washed with deionized water and dried in a vacuum oven at 70 °C until weight stabilization. Likewise, the Pluronic-127 content is varied to obtain different Pluronic-127/mimosa tannin mass ratios (R) from 0 to 2. The resultant hydrochars were named FeTHC-RX, where X = 0, 0.5, 1, or 2 is the R-value used. For the basic synthesis, the value of R is 0.5. For comparison, a Fe-free hydrochar was synthesized in the absence of FeCl<sub>2</sub> with an R-value of 0.5 following the same procedure described above, denoted THC-R0.5. A detailed list of the hydrochars synthesized and their nomenclature is given in the Supporting Information (Table \$1, Supporting Information).

Synthesis of Fe- and N- Co-Doped Electrocatalysts from Tannin-Derived Hydrochars: In a second stage, Fe- and N- co-doped carbon materials are synthesized by a solvent-free method that involves mix-milling (PM 100 ball mill, Retsch) of FeCl<sub>3</sub> (FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, Alpha-Aesar, 97%), urea (Acros Organics, 99.5%) and tannin-derived hydrochar, followed by carbonization at 900 °C in a nitrogen atmosphere. In a conventional synthesis, 0.45 g FeTHC-R0.5, 0.75 g FeCl<sub>3</sub>, and 0.50 g urea are added to a 100 mL ZrO<sub>2</sub> bowl with 10 ZrO<sub>2</sub> milling balls (10 mm in diameter) and milled for 30 min at 500 rpm. The resultant impregnated hydrochar is dried at 103 °C for 2 h, and carbonized at 900 °C for 1 h using a slow heating rate of 3 °C min<sup>-1</sup> and an  $N_2$  flow of 80 mL min<sup>-1</sup>. The resulting catalyst is washed with 1 M HCl for 16 h (Sigma-Aldrich, 37%), then repeatedly washed with deionized water and dried overnight at 103 °C. Following this methodology, different catalysts were obtained from the Fe-containing hydrochar synthesized at different R values. The as-synthesized catalysts were denoted as Fe-N-(FeTC-RX), where TC stands for tannin-derived carbon, to emphasize that THC was transformed into a conductive carbon support during pyrolysis.

Two Fe-N-C reference materials were prepared for the catalyst obtained with an R of 0.5 (Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5)), one obtained by adding only urea and no FeCl $_3$  to FeTHC in the second stage, denoted as N-(FeTC-R0.5), and another obtained by adding both urea and FeCl $_3$  but on the Fe-free hydrochar, denoted as Fe-N-(TC-R0.5). Two nitrogen-undoped reference materials were also prepared, obtained by direct carbonization of FeTHC-R0.5 and THC-R0.5, labeled FeTC-R0.5 and TC-R0.5, respectively. The nomenclature and experimental details are given in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

Physicochemical Characterization: The nitrogen and hydrogen physisorption isotherms of the materials were recorded at -196 °C using

<span id="page-12-0"></span>trolyte. The ring potential was held at 1.4 V (versus RHE) during the ORR experiments.

The electron transfer number (n) and hydrogen peroxide yield were calculated from H2O2 oxidation at the Pt ring electrode, according to Equation (1) and (2):

$$n = \frac{4I_D}{I_D + \frac{I_R}{N}} \tag{1}$$

$$H_2O_2 (\%) = \frac{200 \frac{I_R}{N}}{I_D + \frac{I_R}{N}} \tag{2}$$

where  $I_D$  and  $I_R$  are the capacitance-corrected disk current and ring current, respectively. N is the ring collection efficiency (N = 0.27), determined experimentally from the reversible redox couple  $[Fe(CN)_6]^{3-/4}$ 

ASTs were performed by cycling the working electrode from 0.6 to 1.0 V at 50 mV s $^{-1}$  for 3000 cycles in the  $\mathrm{O}_2$ -saturated electrolyte without rotation.<sup>[26]</sup> LSV curves were monitored before and after the AST at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. Furthermore, the electrochemical stability of the electrocatalysts was also evaluated by chronoamperometric responses at 0.7 V versus RHE in 0.1 M KOH and at 0.6 V versus RHE in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> at 1600 rpm and with constant oxygen bubbling. For comparison purposes, the electrochemical ORR behavior of a commercial Pt/C catalyst was also studied (20 wt.% Pt loading, Sigma-Aldrich). Pt loading on the GC disk was 0.05  $\,\mathrm{mg}\;\mathrm{cm}^{-2}$ 

EIS of the optimum catalyst was performed in potentiostatic mode at 1600 rpm in the O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 м КОН or 0.5 м H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> electrolyte using an alternating current amplitude of 5 mV rms. The frequency was swept from 10 kHz to 10 mHz.

Membrane-Electrode Assembly Preparation and Fuel Cell Testing-AEMFC: A catalyst-coated layer approach was applied to prepare the anode and cathode gas diffusion electrodes (GDEs), following a procedure developed previously. [86,87] The GDL was Toray 60 carbon paper uniformly hydrophobized with 5 wt.% polytetrafluoroethylene. The AEI was a material under development by Fumatech GmbH (Germany) based on crosslinked polystyrene functionalized with trimethylamine cationic groups, with an average ionomer particle size of 100 nm. The AEM was a non-reinforced membrane under development by Fumatech, prepared from the commercial FAA-3 ionomeric material, with a thickness of 10 μm.[77] The anode catalyst was PtRu/C (Alfa Aesar HiSPEC 10 000, with Pt nominally 40 wt.% and Ru nominally 20 wt.%, supported on Vulcan XC-72R carbon) to which the necessary mass of uncatalyzed Vulcan XC 72R was added to reach 40 wt.% PtRu/C. The cathode catalyst selected was the Fe-N-(FeTC-R0.5) material. Catalytic inks were first prepared by mixing and grinding together deionized water, isopropyl alcohol, AEI powder, and electrocatalyst powder, with the volumes or mass indicated elsewhere.<sup>[87]</sup> The mass of the catalysts and AEI was chosen to give an AEI/carbon support mass ratio of 0.41 in the anode ink and 0.21 in the cathode ink. The ink was then spray-deposited onto the 25 cm2 Toray GDL surface using an air brush (Iwata Eclipse HP-CS), to achieve a target loading of 0.5  $mg_{PtRu}\cdot cm^{-2}$  for the anode and 1.0  $mg_{Fe-N-C}\cdot cm^{-2}$  for the cathode. Afterward, the GDEs were cut into 4 pieces of 5 cm<sup>2</sup>, each piece suitable for a single-cell test with a geometric electrode area of 5 cm<sup>2</sup>. The AEM and AEI then underwent ion exchange from Br to OH by immersing the AEM and GDEs in 1.0 m KOH for 20 min, and repeating the operation twice more with fresh KOH solution. After ion exchange, the anode GDE, AEM, and cathode GDE were mounted directly in the fuel cell hardware (Scribner fuel cell hardware with a 5 cm<sup>2</sup> serpentine flow field) without any hot pressing. Teflon gaskets were used, and their thickness was chosen to achieve a compression of  $\approx$ 25% of the GDE. AEMFC temperature, flow rates, relative humidity as well as backpressures were controlled using a Scribner 850e Fuel cell test system, while electrochemical measurements were performed with a Biologic potentiostat combined with a 20 A booster. The backpressure was 1 bar on each side, and the cell temperature was 60 °C. The effects of anode and cathode flow rates as well as humidification temperature were investigated, and the values used for selected fuel cell data are indicated in the corresponding figure caption showing the AEMFC test. The polarization curve was measured by scanning the cell voltage from open circuit potential (OCP) down to 0.1 V at 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>

Membrane-Electrode Assembly Preparation and Fuel Cell Testing— PEMFC: A catalyst-coated layer approach was applied to prepare the cathode GDE, while the anode was a commercial GDE (0.5 mg<sub>pt</sub>·cm<sup>-2</sup> on Sigracet 28-BC). The cathode ink was prepared by sonicating for 1 h 20 mg Fe-N-C catalyst, 652 µL of a 5 wt% Nafion solution (1100EW, Sigma Aldrich) containing 15–20% water, 326 μL ethanol and 272 μL deionized water. Then, the ink was deposited on a 4.84 cm<sup>2</sup> gas diffusion layer (Sigracet 29-BC from Baltic Fuel Cells), each time depositing 210 µL of an aliquot of the ink followed by drying, and repeating this process until the total ink volume had been deposited. The solvents were then removed by heating the cathode GDE to 80 °C for 2 h. The resulting Fe-N-C loading was 4.1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The PEM was Nafion NRE-211 (25 μm thick). Finally, the anode, membrane, and cathode were hot-pressed together at a pressure of 2 tons and a temperature of 135 °C for 2 min. PEMFC tests were then performed using Scribner fuel cell hardware with a 5 cm<sup>2</sup> serpentine flow field, a Scribner 850e Fuel cell test system and a Biologic potentiostat combined with a 20 A booster. The backpressure was 1 bar on each side, and the cell temperature was 80 °C. The polarization curve was measured by scanning the cell voltage from OCP down to  $0.1 \,\mathrm{V}$  at  $1 \,\mathrm{mV \, s^{-1}}$ .

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### Acknowledgements

This study was partly supported by the French PIA project "Lorraine Université d'Excellence", reference ANR-15-IDEX-04-LUE, and the TALiSMAN project funded by ERDF. N.B., M.S., and F.J. acknowledge financial support from ANR through the DEEP project (ANR-21-CE05-0021). The authors would like to thank LMA at Universidad de Zaragoza for providing access to the probe-corrected analytical Titan STEM microscope.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### Data Availability Statement

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

Fe-N<sub>v</sub> active sites, fuel cells, hierarchical micro-mesoporous carbon, iron carbide, oxygen reduction reaction, tannin-metal complex

> Received: August 9, 2024 Revised: December 12, 2024 Published online: December 23, 2024

<sup>[1]</sup> A. A. Gewirth, J. A. Varnell, A. M. DiAscro, Chem. Rev. 2018, 118, 2313.

<sup>[2]</sup> A. Serov, K. Artyushkova, E. Niangar, C. Wang, N. Dale, F. Jaouen, M.-T. Sougrati, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, P. Atanassov, Nano Energy 2015,

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>[3] F. Jaouen, E. Proietti, M. Lefèvre, R. Chenitz, J.-P. Dodelet, G. Wu, H. T. Chung, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2010**, *4*, 114.
- [4] M. Lefèvre, E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, J.-P. Dodelet, *Science* **2009**, *324*, 71.
- [5] L. Osmieri, J. Park, D. A. Cullen, P. Zelenay, D. J. Myers, K. C. Neyerlin, *Curr. Opin. Electrochem.* **2021**, *25*, 100627.
- [6] N. Ramaswamy, U. Tylus, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 15443.
- [7] H. Meng, F. Jaouen, E. Proietti, M. Lefèvre, J.-P. Dodelet, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2009**, *11*, 1986.
- [8] H. Adabi, P. G. Santori, A. Shakouri, X. Peng, K. Yassin, I. G. Rasin, S. Brandon, D. R. Dekel, N. U. Hassan, M.-T. Sougrati, A. Zitolo, J. R. Varcoe, J. R. Regalbuto, F. Jaouen, W. E. Mustain, *Mater. Today Adv.* **2021**, *12*, 100179.
- [9] H. Adabi, A. Shakouri, N. Ul Hassan, J. R. Varcoe, B. Zulevi, A. Serov, J. R. Regalbuto, W. E. Mustain, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 834.
- [10] Md. M. Hossen, Md. S. Hasan, Md. R. I. Sardar, J. bin Haider, K. T. Mottakin, P. Atanassov, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 121733.
- [11] F. Jaouen, M. Lefèvre, J.-P. Dodelet, M. Cai, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2006**, *110*, 5553.
- [12] Y. Qin, F. Wang, D. Cheng, C. Wen, J. Zhang, S. Li, J. Bai, *CrystEng-Comm* **2023**, *25*, 4011.
- [13] L. Jiao, T. A. Arman, S. Hwang, J. Fonseca, N. Okolie, E. Shaaban, G. Li, E. Liu, U. Pasaogullari, S. K. Babu, S. Mukerjee, J. S. Spendelow, D. A. Cullen, F. Jaouen, Q. Jia, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2303952.
- [14] M. Mazzucato, G. Daniel, A. Mehmood, T. Kosmala, G. Granozzi, A. Kucernak, C. Durante, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2021**, *291*, 120068.
- [15] S. H. Lee, J. Kim, D. Y. Chung, J. M. Yoo, H. S. Lee, M. J. Kim, B. S. Mun, S. G. Kwon, Y.-E. Sung, T. Hyeon, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 2035.
- [16] A. Serov, K. Artyushkova, P. Atanassov, F.-N.-C. Oxygen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2014**, *4*, 1301735.
- [17] E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, M. Lefèvre, N. Larouche, J. Tian, J. Herranz, J.-P. Dodelet, *Nat. Commun.* **2011**, *2*, 416.
- [18] H. Zuo, Z. Zhao, Y. He, S. Li, X. Li, Z. Cheng, C. Cheng, A. Thomas, Y. Liao, *Carbon* **2023**, *201*, 984.
- [19] X. Sun, P. Wei, S. Gu, J. Zhang, Z. Jiang, J. Wan, Z. Chen, L. Huang, Y. Xu, C. Fang, Q. Li, J. Han, Y. Huang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906057.
- [20] W.-J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L.-J. Zhang, J.-Q. Wang, J.-S. Hu, Z. Wei, L.-J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3570.
- [21] Y. Wang, L. Wang, Y. Xie, M. Tong, C. Tian, H. Fu, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 3346.
- [22] R. Sgarbi, K. Kumar, F. Jaouen, A. Zitolo, E. A. Ticianelli, F. Maillard, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2021**, *25*, 45.
- [23] H. Wang, F.-X. Yin, N. Liu, R.-H. Kou, X.-B. He, C.-J. Sun, B.-H. Chen, D.-J. Liu, H.-Q. Yin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1901531.
- [24] Y. Hu, J. O. Jensen, W. Zhang, L. N. Cleemann, W. Xing, N. J. Bjerrum, Q. Li, *Angew. Chem.* **2014**, *126*, 3749.
- [25] G. Wu, C. Shao, B. Cui, H. Chu, S. Qiu, Y. Zou, F. Xu, L. Sun, *Sustain. Energy Fuels* **2021**, *5*, 5295.
- [26] S. Pérez-Rodríguez, D. Sebastián, C. Alegre, T. Tsoncheva, N. Petrov, D. Paneva, M. J. Lázaro, *Electrochim. Acta* **2021**, *387*, 138490.
- [27] S. Zago, L. C. Scarpetta-Pizo, J. H. Zagal, S. Specchia, *Electrochem. Energy Rev.* **2024**, *7*, 1.
- [28] C. Jiao, Z. Xu, J. Shao, Y. Xia, J. Tseng, G. Ren, N. Zhang, P. Liu, C. Liu, G. Li, S. Chen, S. Chen, H.-L. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213897.
- [29] A. Dessalle, J. Quílez-Bermejo, V. Fierro, F. Xu, A. Celzard, *Carbon* **2023**, *203*, 237.
- [30] G. Zuccante, M. Acciarri, C. L. Vecchio, I. Gatto, V. Baglio, N. Pianta, R. Ruffo, L. Navarini, C. Santoro, *Electrochim. Acta* **2024**, *492*, 144353.
- [31] P. Teppor, R. Jäger, M. Koppel, O. Volobujeva, R. Palm, M. Månsson, E. Härk, Z. Kochovski, J. Aruväli, K. Kooser, S. Granroth, T. Käämbre, J. Nerut, E. Lust, *J. Power Sources* **2024**, *591*, 233816.

- [32] H. S. Kim, J. Lee, J.-H. Jang, H. Jin, V. K. Paidi, S.-H. Lee, K.-S. Lee, P. Kim, S. J. Yoo, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2021**, *563*, 150208.
- [33] D. W. Lee, J.-H. Jang, I. Jang, Y. S. Kang, S. Jang, K. Y. Lee, J. H. Jang, H.-J. Kim, S. J. Yoo, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1902090.
- [34] R. Soni, S. N. Bhange, S. Kurungot, *Nanoscale* **2019**, *11*, 7893.
- [35] P. Teppor, R. Jäger, M. Paalo, A. Adamson, M. Härmas, O. Volobujeva, J. Aruväli, R. Palm, E. Lust, *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy* **2022**, *47*, 16908.
- [36] M. Muhyuddin, A. Friedman, F. Poli, E. Petri, H. Honig, F. Basile, A. Fasolini, R. Lorenzi, E. Berretti, M. Bellini, A. Lavacchi, L. Elbaz, C. Santoro, F. Soavi, *J. Power Sources* **2023**, *556*, 232416.
- [37] R. Jäger, P. Teppor, M. Paalo, M. Härmas, A. Adamson, O. Volobujeva, E. Härk, Z. Kochovski, T. Romann, R. Härmas, J. Aruväli, A. Kikas, E. Lust, *Catalysts* **2021**, *11*, 715.
- [38] S. K. Das, A. Kesh, S. Akula, A. K. Sahu, *Energy Fuels* **2022**, *36*, 2108.
- [39] F. L. Braghiroli, G. Amaral-Labat, A. F. N. Boss, C. Lacoste, A. Pizzi, *Biomolecules* **2019**, *9*, 587.
- [40] J. Castro-Gutiérrez, A. Celzard, V. Fierro, *Front. Mater.* **2020**, *7*. [https:](https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fmats.2020.00217) [//www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fmats.2020.00217.](https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fmats.2020.00217)
- [41] P. Zhang, L. Wang, S. Yang, J. A. Schott, X. Liu, S. M. Mahurin, C. Huang, Y. Zhang, P. F. Fulvio, M. F. Chisholm, S. Dai, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15020.
- [42] J. Wei, Y. Liang, Y. Hu, B. Kong, J. Zhang, Q. Gu, Y. Tong, X. Wang, S. P. Jiang, H. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 12470.
- [43] M. Liu, C. Cai, J. Li, J. Zhao, W. Teng, R. Liu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2018**, *528*, 1.
- [44] H. Wang, W. Wang, S. Zaman, Y. Yu, Z. Wu, H. Liu, B. Y. Xia, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2018**, *530*, 196.
- [45] Q. Qin, H. Jang, P. Li, B. Yuan, X. Liu, J. Cho, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1803312.
- [46] E. D. Bartzoka, H. Lange, G. Poce, C. Crestini, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 3975.
- [47] H. Ejima, J. J. Richardson, K. Liang, J. P. Best, M. P. van Koeverden, G. K. Such, J. Cui, F. Caruso, *Science* **2013**, *341*, 154.
- [48] M. Shin, E. Park, H. Lee, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1903022.
- [49] A. Pizzi, A. Stephanou, *Holz Als Roh- Werkst.* **1994**, *52*, 218.
- [50] A. Pizzi, N. Meikleham, B. Dombo, W. Roll, *Holz Als Roh- Werkst* **1995**, *53*, 201.
- [51] G. Tondi, A. Petutschnigg, *Ind. Crops Prod.* **2015**, *65*, 422.
- [52] W. Shan, P. Zhang, S. Yang, H. Zhu, P. Wu, H. Xing, S. Dai, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 23446.
- [53] L. Vizcaíno-Anaya, C. Herreros-Lucas, J. M. Vila-Fungueiriño, M. del Carmen Giménez-López, *Chem. – Eur. J.* **2022**, *28*, 202201861.
- [54] D. Torres, J. L. Pinilla, R. Moliner, I. Suelves, *Carbon* **2015**, *81*, 405.
- [55] F. Tuinstra, J. L. Koenig, *J. Chem. Phys.* **1970**, *53*, 1126.
- [56] F. Luo, C. H. Choi, M. J. M. Primbs, W. Ju, S. Li, N. D. Leonard, A. Thomas, F. Jaouen, P. Strasser, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 4841.
- [57] A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M.-T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, 937.
- [58] J. Li, M. T. Sougrati, A. Zitolo, J. M. Ablett, I. C. Oguz, T. Mineva, I. ˘ Matanovic, P. Atanassov, Y. Huang, I. Zenyuk, A. Di Cicco, K. Kumar, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, G. Draži´c, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 10.
- [59] R. Morales-Ospino, R. L. S. Canevesi, S. Schaefer, A. Celzard, V. Fierro, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *479*, 147638.
- [60] S. Pérez-Rodríguez, O. Pinto, M. T. Izquierdo, C. Segura, P. S. Poon, A. Celzard, J. Matos, V. Fierro, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *601*, 863.
- [61] M. Thommes, K. Kaneko, A. V. Neimark, J. P. Olivier, F. Rodriguez-Reinoso, J. Rouquerol, K. S. W. Sing, *Pure Appl. Chem.* **2015**, *87*, 1051.
- [62] D. Guo, R. Shibuya, C. Akiba, S. Saji, T. Kondo, J. Nakamura, *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361.
- [63] X. Yang, F. Su, M. Hou, D. Zhang, Y. Dai, F. Liang, *Dalton Trans.* **2021**, *50*, 7041.

<span id="page-14-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [75] V.-H. Do, J.-M. Lee, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2024**, *53*, 2693.
- [76] C. Domínguez, F. J. Pérez-Alonso, M. A. Salam, S. A. Al-Thabaiti, M. A. Peña, F. J. García-García, L. Barrio, S. Rojas, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2016**, *183*, 185.
- [77] K. Yassin, J. C. Douglin, I. G. Rasin, P. G. Santori, B. Eriksson, N. Bibent, F. Jaouen, S. Brandon, D. R. Dekel, *Energy Convers. Manag.* **2022**, *270*, 116203.
- [78] H. Ge, N. Bibent, K. Teixeira Santos, K. Kumar, J. Jaxel, M.-T. Sougrati, A. Zitolo, M. Dupont, F. Lecoeur, M. Mermoux, V. Martin, L. Dubau, F. Jaouen, F. Maillard, S. Berthon-Fabry, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 1149.
- [79] B. Eriksson, P. G. Santori, F. Lecoeur, M. Dupont, F. Jaouen, *J. Power Sources* **2023**, *554*, 232343.
- [80] Q. He, L. Zeng, J. Wang, J. Jiang, L. Zhang, J. Wang, W. Ding, Z. Wei, *J. Power Sources* **2021**, *489*, 229499.
- [81] Y. Cao, Y. Sun, R. Zheng, Q. Wang, X. Li, H. Wei, L. Wang, Z. Li, F. Wang, N. Han, *Biomass Bioenergy* **2023**, *168*, 106676.
- [82] W.-X. Dong, Y.-F. Qu, X. Liu, L.-F. Chen, *FlatChem* **2023**, *37*, 100467.
- [83] N. Norouzi, F. A. Choudhury, H. M. El-Kaderi, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 2537.
- [84] G. Huang, M. Mandal, X. Peng, A. C. Yang-Neyerlin, B. S. Pivovar, W. E. Mustain, P. A. Kohl, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2019**, *166*, F637.
- [85] T. B. Ferriday, P. H. Middleton, *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy* **2021**, *46*, 18489.
- [86] T. J. Omasta, X. Peng, H. A. Miller, F. Vizza, L. Wang, J. R. Varcoe, D. R. Dekel, W. E. Mustain, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, J3039.
- [87] P. G. Santori, F. D. Speck, S. Cherevko, H. A. Firouzjaie, X. Peng, W. E. Mustain, F. Jaouen, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2020**, *167*, 134505.

- [64] M. Muhyuddin, E. Berretti, S. A. Mirshokraee, J. Orsilli, R. Lorenzi, L. Capozzoli, F. D'Acapito, E. Murphy, S. Guo, P. Atanassov, A. Lavacchi, C. Santoro, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2024**, *343*, 123515.
- [65] K. Artyushkova, A. Serov, S. Rojas-Carbonell, P. Atanassov, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 25917.
- [66] T. Asset, P. Atanassov, *Joule* **2020**, *4*, 33.
- [67] J. Quílez-Bermejo, S. García-Dalí, A. Daouli, A. Zitolo, R. L. S. Canevesi, M. Emo, M. T. Izquierdo, M. Badawi, A. Celzard, V. Fierro, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2300405.
- [68] M. Primbs, Y. Sun, A. Roy, D. Malko, A. Mehmood, M.-T. Sougrati, P.-Y. Blanchard, G. Granozzi, T. Kosmala, G. Daniel, P. Atanassov, J. Sharman, C. Durante, A. Kucernak, D. Jones, F. Jaouen, P. Strasser, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 2480.
- [69] J. Quílez-Bermejo, A. Daouli, S. G. Dalí, Y. Cui, A. Zitolo, J. Castro-Gutiérrez, M. Emo, M. T. Izquierdo, W. Mustain, M. Badawi, A. Celzard, V. Fierro, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2403810.
- [70] J. Li, D. Xiao, P. Wang, H. Chen, M. Deng, D. Zhu, J. Yu, *Part. Part. Syst. Charact.* **2023**, *40*, 2200141.
- [71] L. Gao, M. Xiao, Z. Jin, C. Liu, J. Zhu, J. Ge, W. Xing, *J. Energy Chem.* **2018**, *27*, 1668.
- [72] R. K. Singh, R. Devivaraprasad, T. Kar, A. Chakraborty, M. Neergat, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F489.
- [73] D. Sebastián, A. Serov, K. Artyushkova, P. Atanassov, A. S. Aricò, *J. Power Sources* **2016**, *319*, 235.
- [74] Y. Shao, J.-P. Dodelet, G. Wu, P. Zelenay, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807615.