---
source: Qi 等 - 2024 - Constructing Directional Electrostatic Potential Difference via Gradient Nitrogen Doping for Efficie.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.998s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:02:31.666517Z
---

# **Constructing Directional Electrostatic Potential Difference via Gradient Nitrogen Doping for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Zhijie Qi, Zhenjie Lu, Xiangjie Guo, Jun Jiang, Shujun Liu, Jingwen Sun, Xin Wang, Junwu Zhu, and Yongsheng Fu\**

**Nitrogen doping has been recognized as an important strategy to enhance the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity of carbon-encapsulated transition metal catalysts (TM@C). However, previous reports on nitrogen doping have tended to result in a random distribution of nitrogen atoms, which leads to disordered electrostatic potential differences on the surface of carbon layers, limiting further control over the materials' electronic structure. Herein, a gradient nitrogen doping strategy to prepare nitrogen-deficient graphene and nitrogen-rich carbon nanotubes encapsulated cobalt nanoparticles catalysts (Co@CNTs@NG) is proposed. The unique gradient nitrogen doping leads to a gradual increase in the electrostatic potential of the carbon layer from the nitrogen-rich region to the nitrogen-deficient region, facilitating the directed electron transfer within these layers and ultimately optimizing the charge distribution of the material. Therefore, this strategy effectively regulates the density of state and work function of the material, further optimizing the adsorption of oxygen-containing intermediates and enhancing ORR activity. Theoretical and experimental results show that under controlled gradient nitrogen doping, Co@CNTs@NG exhibits significantly ORR performance (Eonset = 0.96 V, E1/2 = 0.86 V). At the same time, Co@CNTs@NG also displays excellent performance as a cathode material for Zn–air batteries, with peak power density of 132.65 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.51 V. This work provides an effective gradient nitrogen doping strategy to optimize the ORR performance.**

## **1. Introduction**

Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) holds significant importance as an electrocatalytic reaction in fuel cells or metal–air batteries (e.g., Zn–air batteries (ZABs)).[\[1–3\]](#page-8-0) Nevertheless, its complicated electron transfer process and slow kinetic characteristics restricting overall efficiency because of the suboptimal performance of

Z. Qi, Z. Lu, X. Guo, J. Jiang, S. Liu, J. Sun, X. Wang, J. Zhu, Y. Fu Key Laboratory for Soft Chemistry and Functional Materials School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Nanjing University of Science and Technology Nanjing 210094, China E-mail: [fuyongsheng@njust.edu.cn](mailto:fuyongsheng@njust.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202401221>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202401221**

electrocatalysis.[\[4,5\]](#page-8-0) Platinum (Pt)-based catalysts are the predominant choice for ORR, but their high cost, scarcity of resources, and subpar durability significantly hinder the commercialization of these energy devices.[\[6,7\]](#page-8-0) To reduce excessive prices and promote widespread commercialization, significant efforts have been dedicated to exploring cost-effective and sustainable non-noble metal catalysts as substitutes for Pt-based electrocatalysts, aiming to enhance the efficiency of ORR.[\[8–11\]](#page-8-0)

The doping of heteroatoms, particularly nitrogen (N) atom doping, has been proven to be an effective approach for enhancing the electrocatalytic activity of carbon-coated transition-metal (TM@C) catalysts.[\[12–14\]](#page-8-0) The introduction of N atoms in TM@C not only increases the number of available free electrons, thereby enhancing the material's conductivity, but also disrupts the electrical neutrality of neighboring carbon atoms, creating positively charged sites that synergistically interact with TM-NPs to facilitate intermediates adsorption and reaction.[\[15–17\]](#page-8-0) For instance, Li et al. used the synergistic catalysis of N dopants and cobalt (Co)-NPs on Co/N-CNTs to promote the ORR and OER properties

of the catalyst.[\[18\]](#page-8-0) Mai's team found that suitable graphite N doping is the key to improving the electrocatalytic activity of the materials.[\[19\]](#page-8-0) In the catalytic process of materials, an appropriate degree of charge transfer can optimize adsorption behavior and achieve the optimum adsorption and desorption characteristics for oxygen-containing intermediates.[\[20,21\]](#page-8-0) Based on a comprehensive review of previous research, it has been observed that the distribution of N atoms in N-doped materials tends to be random.[\[22\]](#page-8-0) Consequently, the influence of nitrogen incorporation is also random, leading to non-uniform electron distribution and charge density variations.[\[23\]](#page-8-0) As a result, the generated electrostatic potential difference exhibits disorder and lacks apparent directionality or trends, which poses challenges for further optimization of the electronic structure of carbon layers.

Herein, we construct directional electrostatic potential difference via gradient N doping strategy. We first prepared a gradient N-doped catalyst (Co@CNTs@NG) consisting of N-rich

(*N*R) doped carbon nanotubes (CNTs) coated with Co-NPs and N-deficient (*N*D) doped graphene. The density functional theory (DFT) and experimental results confirm the electrostatic potential difference and charge transfer mechanism of the carbon layer in gradient N-doped material. The introduction of *N*<sup>D</sup> carbon layer has a regulating effect on the charge distribution of the materials. This modulation of the charge distribution directly affects the density of state (DOS) and work function (WF) of the material, thereby optimizing its interaction with the intermediates. As a result, the gradient N-doped catalysts of Co@CNTs@NG demonstrate remarkable performance as both an ORR catalyst and a cathode material for ZABs. The achieved optimization significantly enhances the electrochemical performance of the material, thereby providing valuable insights into the understanding of the structure-activity relationship between TM@C materials and ORR.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

To rationally design gradient N-doped Co@CNTs@NG catalyst, we constructed two models of carbon-supported Co-NPs based on different forms of N doping and performed DFT calculations to verify the effectiveness of the gradient N-doping strategy. In order to better simulate the influence of Co on the materials, we selected the most active crystal plane of Co, the (0001) crystal plane of the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) lattices as the modeling of the materials model.[\[24–27\]](#page-8-0) For the gradient N-doping model, we constructed a two-layered carbon substrate based on Co NPs:the upper layer consisted of carbon with lower N doping (*N*<sup>D</sup> carbon layer), while the lower layer consisted of carbon with higher N doping (*N*<sup>R</sup> carbon layer)(**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-2-0). While for the non-gradient N doping model, a layer of carbon substrate with more N doping is constructed on the basis of Co–NPs (Figure S1, Supporting Information) (DFT calculation details are in supporting information). The electrostatic potential of the gradient nitrogen doping model was calculated (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0), and it was found that a certain positive electrostatic potential difference (Δ*E*ESP) of 1.12 eV was generated between the *N*<sup>D</sup> layer and the *N*<sup>R</sup> layer along the *z*-axis direction, which will facilitate the transfer of electrons from the *N*<sup>R</sup> layer to the *N*<sup>D</sup> layer. By performing differential charge density calculations, we observed that the introduction of an additional *N*<sup>D</sup> carbon layer clearly revealed the accumulation of electrons on the surface of the *N*<sup>D</sup> carbon layer, confirming that the existence of electrostatic potential differences facilitated the transfer of electrons between gradient N-doped carbon layers (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0). The electronic transfers between the carbon layers and Co–NPs were further investigated through bader charge analysis (Figure [1d,e\)](#page-2-0). It was observed that the introduction of gradient N doping resulted in a reduction of charge transfer between the Co–NPs and *N*<sup>R</sup> carbon layer. The above results indicate that the introduction of a *N*<sup>D</sup> layer increases changes in interlayer charge density, thereby affecting the electron transfer between the *N*<sup>R</sup> layer and Co–NPs, ultimately optimizing the electron distribution on the surface of the *N*<sup>R</sup> layer.

Furthermore, considering that the level of the WF determines the direction and feasibility of electron transfer, and the electron transport capability at the interface is crucial for the adsorption of intermediate species, we calculated and simulated the WF of two different models (Figure [1f;](#page-2-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information).[\[28,29\]](#page-8-0) The results indicate that Co@gradient Ndoped C exhibits a higher WF value (3.68 eV *>* 3.66 eV) compared to Co@non-gradient N-doped C. This increase in WF signifies reduced adsorption strength of the material, which in turn decreases its interaction with intermediates and promotes the desorption of intermediate species.[\[30,31\]](#page-8-0) Meanwhile, we observed a significant upward shift in the material's Fermi level, which leads to a reduction in the energy barrier for electrons to fill the antibonding orbitals, thereby promoting the progress of electrochemical reactions.[\[32\]](#page-8-0) Total density of states (TDOS) calculations also revealed that Co@gradient N-doped C exhibits a higher density of states in proximity to the Fermi level compared to Co@non-gradient N-doped C, implying enhanced catalytic kinetics and superior electron conductivity (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0).[\[33,34\]](#page-8-0) In summary, the electrostatic potential difference formed by gradient nitrogen doping in the material promotes the directional transfer of electrons in the material, optimizes the DOS and WF of the material, which will undoubtedly improve the ORR catalytic activity of Co@C material.

In order to achieve the preparation of Co@gradient N-doped C, the Co@CNTs@NG was synthesized through a three-step method as shown in **Figure 2**[a.](#page-3-0) First, cubic bimetallic Co–Zinc (Zn) based zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (CoZn-ZIFs) were synthesized by controlling the ratio of metal salts to Co:Zn = 1:1 (Figure S3a, Supporting Information). Then, a certain amount of GO was introduced into a solution in which ZIFs were uniformly dispersed. Since the surfactant cetyltriethylammnonium bromide (CTAB) was added during the synthesis process of CoZn-ZIFs, the surface of the synthesized cubic CoZn-ZIFs was positively charged, which makes them form CoZn-ZIFs@GO composites material through electrostatic adsorption with negatively charged GO on the surface.[\[35\]](#page-8-0) The scanning electron microscope (SEM) image in Figure S3b (Supporting Information) shows the morphology of the CoZn-ZIFs@GO composites, and it can be observed that GO and CoZn-ZIFs are tightly attached. Finally, the gradient N-doped Co@CNTs@NG was formed by employing DCDA-assisted pyrolysis strategy (specific synthesis details are in the supporting information). For comparison, Co@CNTs are directly obtained from CoZn-ZIFs through the same pyrolysis process (Figure S3c, Supporting Information), while N-doped graphene (NG) is obtained through the same method of pyrolysis of GO (Figure S3d, Supporting Information). SEM images in Figure [2b,c](#page-3-0) exhibit the 3D network structure of Co@CNTs@NG, which consists of 1D N-doped CNTs encapsulating Co-NPs and 2D graphene. Figures S1c and S4 (Supporting Information) confirm that the CNTs grew from CoZn-ZIFs in the CoZn-ZIFs@GO composites. The N element mapping in Co@CNTs@NG revealed a higher brightness of the N element in the CNTs region compared to the NG region, indicating a higher level of N doping in the CNTs than in NG. These results are consistent with our initial expectations (Figure S4, Supporting Information). This phenomenon can be attributed to the fact that the CoZn-ZIFs in the CoZn-ZIFs@GO precursor inherently possess a significant N content. During the assisted pyrolysis process involving *N*<sup>R</sup> DCDA, the resulting CNTs continue to retain a substantial N content. In contrast, the surface oxygen functional groups in the GO used within the CoZn-ZIFs@GO precursor are lost during the pyrolysis process, limiting its ability to capture N atoms from DCDA, thus

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Simulation model of Co@gradient N-doped C (above: ND doped carbon layer, below: *N*<sup>R</sup> doped carbon layer), b) The calculated electrostatic potential maps for Co@gradient N-doped C. c) Differential charge diagram of a gradient N doping model. Bader charge and differential charge density of d) Co@non-gradient N-doped C, e) Co@gradient N-doped C f) The WF of Co@gradient N-doped C and Co@non-gradient N-doped C. g) TDOS analysis of Co@gradient N-doped C and Co@non-gradient N-doped C.

resulting in a lower N content in the formed NG. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images further confirm that Co-NPs are encapsulated within the multi-layered carbon structure formed by the combination of CNTs and NG in the Co@CNTs@NG. (Figure [2d,e\)](#page-3-0). The Co-NPs in the Co@CNTs@NG exhibit an average particle size of ≈10 nm, whereas the primary particle size distribution of Co-NPs in Co@CNTs is centered around 40 nm (Figures S5,S6, Supporting Information). The significant reduction in particle size observed in Co@CNTs@NG can be attributed to the confining effect exerted by the coated GO during the pyrolysis process, effectively mitigating the agglomeration tendency of the Co-NPs. The HRTEM images (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0) of Co@CNTs@NG reveal clear lattice fringes with a pitch of 0.204 nm, which can be indexed as (111) planes of metallic Co.[\[19\]](#page-8-0) And the lattice spacing of the outer carbon layer is ≈0.34 nm, corresponding to the (002) plane of CNTs.[\[36\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images and elements mapping indicate that Co, C, N, and O are uniformly distributed and dispersed in Co@CNTs@NG (Figure [2f–j\)](#page-3-0). It should be noted that the presence of O can be attributed to its incorporation from the surrounding air during the characterization process.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) The fabrication of Co@CNTs@NG catalysts by DCDA-assisted pyrolysis. b,c) SEM images of Co@CNTs@NG at different magnifications. d) TEM images of Co@CNTs@NG. e) HRTEM of Co@CNTs@NG. f) HAADF-STEM images, and g–j) EDS elemental mapping of Co@CNTs@NG.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0) indicate that the characteristic peaks of Co@CNTs@NG are at 2 = 44.2°, 51.5° and 75.9°, which can be attributed to the diffractions of the Co-NPs along the (111), (200), and (220) crystal planes (PDF #15- 0806). The low-intensity diffraction peak at ≈26.2°, which is attributed to graphitic carbon, indicates the presence of graphitic carbon in the Co@CNTs@NG.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) The XRD pattern confirms that Co@CNTs@NG are composite materials composed of Co-NPs and graphitic carbon. Raman spectroscopy analysis was conducted to examine the graphite structure of the materials. Both Co@CNTs and Co@CNTs@NG show obvious D peaks and G peaks in the Raman spectrum (Figure [3b\)](#page-4-0), which are located around 1360 and 1591 cm<sup>−</sup>1, respectively.[\[38\]](#page-8-0) In comparison to Co@CNTs, Co@CNTs@NG exhibits a higher *ID*/*IG* ratio (1.01), indicating an elevated defect density within the material. The predominant source of defects is attributed to carbon defects in the NG component. The porosity characteristics of the Co@CNTs@NG and Co@CNTs were determined through

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) XRD patterns of Co@CNTs, Co@CNTs@NG, and NG. b) Raman spectra of Co@CNTs@NG and Co@CNTs c) The N2 absorption and desorption isotherm (inset: the pore size distribution) of Co@CNTs@NG. d,e) XPS analysis of Co@CNTs@NG and Co@CNTs High-resolution XPS spectrum of d) Co 2p3/2 e) N 1s. f) Comparison of the contents of various N species in Co@CNTs@NG and Co@CNTs.

N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms. The materials all exhibit a typical IV-type adsorption curve, indicating that the materials are dominated by mesoporous pores (Figure 3c). In contrast to Co@CNTs (Figure S7, Supporting Information), which primarily features numerous mesopores with sizes less than 5 nm, Co@CNTs@NG predominantly comprises pores of ≈30 nm in size. Only a limited number of mesopores smaller than 5 nm are present (the inset of Figure 3c). The presence of a substantial quantity of 30 nm mesopores, which are created by the derived reduced GO and carbon CNTs, unquestionably contributes to an increased surface area available for adsorption and reaction. This, in turn, facilitates the smoother transport of molecules within Co@CNTs@NG. The superior mass transfer characteristics of the Co@CNTs@NG are expected to positively influence their catalytic performance in ORR.

The valence states of Co@CNTs@NG were further accurately analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). XPS full spectrum shows the existence of Co, C, N, O elements in Co@CNTs@NG (Figure S8, Supporting Information). In the high-resolution spectrum of Co 2p3/2 (Figure 3d), four distinct characteristic peaks can be fitted. Among them, the peak at 778.5 eV is attributed to metallic Co, the peak at 780.3 eV is attributed to the CoCxNy species, the peak at 782.7 eV is attributed to the Co-Nx species, and the peak at 786.5 eV is a satellite peak.[\[39\]](#page-8-0) The high-resolution spectrum of N 1s can be divided into four distinct peaks at 398.5, 399.2, 400.5, and 401.2 eV, corresponding to pyridinic N, Co-Nx, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N, respectively (Figure 3e).[\[39\]](#page-8-0) While both Co@CNTs and Co@CNTs@NG contain similar types of N species, it's important to note that their respective N content levels differ. The N content in Co@CNTs is measured at 5.27 at.%, whereas in Co@CNTs@NG, the N content is notably higher at 8.44 at.%. The additional N content in Co@CNTs@NG can be attributed to the presence of a small amount of N content on the graphene, and the additional N content closely aligns with the N content observed in NG prepared through the pyrolysis of graphene oxide using the same method (Figure S9 and Table S1, Supporting Information). Therefore, it can be safely concluded that there is a gradient N doping on Co@CNTs@NG. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 3f, it is evident that Co@CNTs@NG harbors a greater quantity of Co-Nx species, a factor that significantly enhances its catalytic potential for ORR.[\[40\]](#page-8-0) Although the content of Co in both Co@CNTs@NG and Co@CNTs is about 0.7 at.%, the binding energy of Co 2p3/2 shifts to higher energy, indicating that the introduction of NG into Co@CNTs makes the valence state of Co-NPs improvement, which is consistent with bader charge analysis. The above XPS analysis results are consistent with the XRD and Raman analysis results, collectively validating the successful preparation of spatially gradient N-doped Co@CNTs@NG. Furthermore, these analyses demonstrate that gradient N doping efficiently modulates the electronic structure of Co@CNTs@NG.

Given the presence of a porous 3D network structure, gradient N-doped carbon-wrapped Co-NPs, and supporting evidence from DFT calculations, we have strong confidence in the remarkable electrocatalytic performance of Co@CNTs@NG for ORR. As such, we proceeded with an investigation into the ORR activity of Co@CNTs@NG and other Co@C catalysts in a 0.1 m KOH solution with saturated O2. Under a

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) LSV diagrams of various Co@C materials and Pt/C at 1600 rpm. b) LSV diagram of Co@CNTs@NG at different rotation rates (inset: K–L curve under the different potential of Co@CNTs@NG. c) RRDE LSV diagram of Co@CNTs@NG under 1600 rpm (inset: electron transfer number and hydrogen peroxide yield obtained by RRDE test). d) The i–t chronoamperometric responses of Co@CNTs@NG with the addition of KSCN (10 mm) at a rotation rate of 1600 rpm on the RDE in 0.1 m KOH. e) Electrochemistry in situ Raman spectra of ORR on Co@CNTs@NG surface with different electric potentials (O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution). f) Free energy profiles of the ORR on two N-doped models. g) The mechanism diagram of 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway ORR on two N-doped models. h) Bader charge analysis of \*OH and \*OOH adsorbed on two N-doped models.

rotation rate of 1600 rpm, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curve of Co@CNTs@NG exhibits outstanding electrochemical performances, characterized by a remarkable onset potential (*E*onset = 0.96 V), half-wave potential (E1/2 = 0.86 V), and the limiting current density (j = 5.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (**Figure 4**a; Figure S10, Supporting Information). The performance of Co@CNTs@NG surpasses that of other Co@C catalysts, particularly when compared to non-gradient N-doped Co@CNTs. The half-wave potential of Co@CNTs@NG is enhanced by 40 mV in comparison. Meanwhile, the Co@CNTs@NG demonstrates comparable performances with commercial 20 wt% Pt/C catalyst (E1/2 = 0.87 V, j = 5.2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Figure 4b shows the LSV curves of Co@CNTs@NG recorded at different rotation speeds of the electrode. It is obvious that the limiting current increases with the increase of rotation speed, indicating the shortening of the diffusion distance of gaseous O2. According to this figure, the Koutecký–Levich (K–L) curve (Figure 4b (inset)) is drawn using the reciprocal of rotation (<sup>−</sup>1/2) and the reciprocal of current density (j<sup>−</sup>1), and the number of electrons transferred during the ORR reaction (n) is calculated. The results show that at different voltages, the K–L curves of Co@CNTs@NG are linearly parallel, and the n at 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, and 0.7 V are calculated to be 3.95, 3.93, 3.91, 3.96, and 3.93, respectively. All of them are close to 4, confirming that the catalytic activity of Co@CNTs@NG primarily involved a 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway reaction for the ORR. To delve deeper into the mechanism and reaction kinetics of the ORR, **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202401221 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

the intermediate hydrogen peroxide was quantitatively detected using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) test, and the electron transfer number was measured. Analysis of the RRDE polarization curve revealed a significantly higher disk current in comparison to the ring current. The experimental curves obtained at 1600 rpm are presented in Figure [4c.](#page-5-0) Within the voltage range of 0.7 to 0.9 V, the Co@CNTs@NG exhibited an average hydrogen peroxide yield of ≈6.23%, with a corresponding average n value of 3.83. The above analysis indicates that the Co@CNTs@NG possesses efficient 4e<sup>−</sup> catalytic activity in the ORR.

In addition, considering that thiocyanate ion (SCN<sup>−</sup>) can bind to the active metal center of the catalyst, leading to the deactivation of the catalyst, KSCN poisoning experiments were conducted to investigate the electrocatalytic active sites of the Co@CNTs@NG.[\[41,42\]](#page-8-0) Current-time (i–t) experiments were performed in 0.1 m KOH, and upon adding KSCN to the electrolyte at 500 s to form a solution containing 10 mm KSCN, and the relative current decreased by only 0.8% (Figure [4d\)](#page-5-0). Additionally, a further comparison of the LSV curves of Co@NC@NG before and after adding SCN<sup>−</sup> reveals that the catalytic activity of the material remains almost unchanged (Figure S11, Supporting Information). This indicates that there are hardly any Co active sites present on the surface of the carbon layer. To achieve a more comprehensive understanding of the reaction mechanism of Co@CNTs@NG, in situ Raman characterization was employed to investigate the intermediate species throughout the entire process of ORR (Figure [4e\)](#page-5-0). Two distinct peaks at 1348 and 1593 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> were identified as the D and G bands in the carbon material. Subsequently, after reaching 0.5 V, a peak around 1152 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> emerged, corresponding to the vibrational mode of O2 <sup>−</sup>1, while another peak at 1525 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> indicated the vibration of OOH\*.[\[43\]](#page-9-0) These observations provide supporting evidence for the predominant involvement of a 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway in the ORR on the surface of Co@CNTs@NG. Consequently, the formation desorption of OOH\* may serve as a potential rate-determining step (RDS) for the ORR on the surface of Co@CNTs@NG.

In order to clarify the mechanism of gradient N doping promoting the catalytic activity of Co@CNTs@NG in ORR, the mechanism of the 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway was studied by DFT calculation. In ORR reactions, the step with the largest Gibbs free energy (Δ*G*) is usually considered as the RDS. The smaller Δ*G* value of the RDS step indicates higher ORR catalytic activity of the material. Figure [4f](#page-5-0) illustrates the Gibbs free energy step diagrams of the ORR process for the two N-doping models constructed at *U* = 0 V and *U* = 1.23 V. As illustrated in Figure [4f,](#page-5-0) both Ndoped models exhibit a downhill energy profile for all reaction steps at *U* = 0 V, indicating that each step undergoes a spontaneous exothermic process. This demonstrates the thermodynamic spontaneity of Co@CNTs@NG and Co@CNTs during the ORR. At *U* = 1.23 V, the RDS for Co@non-gradient N-doped C is the desorption of \*OH (\*OH → H2O) with a Δ*G* value of 1.35 eV. However, after introducing gradient N-doping, the formation of \*OOH (O2 → \*OOH) becomes the RDS, which is consistent with the in-situ Raman results mentioned above, with a Δ*G* value of 1.03 eV. The Δ*G* of RDS of Co@gradient N-doped C is greatly reduced, indicating that gradient N doping contributes to the enhancement of ORR activity. Figure [4g](#page-5-0) shows the adsorption of ORR reaction intermediates on these two N doping models. Differential charge and bader charge analysis were conducted on the adsorption of \*OOH and \*OH intermediates on different catalysts to explore the reasons for the change in the RDS (Figure [4h\)](#page-5-0). It was observed that due to the introduction of gradient nitrogen doping, the surface charges on the carbon layer underwent rearrangement, resulting in a reduction in the transfer of surface charges to both reaction key intermediates. This indicates a weaker binding between the intermediates and the active sites, facilitating their desorption and consequently altering the RDS of the reaction.

For ZABs, the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is also a critical reaction.[\[44–46\]](#page-9-0) To further explore the potential application of the material in ZABs, we conducted tests on its OER performance. LSV tests were conducted in 1 m KOH solution, and the results showed that the current density of Co@CNTs@NG could reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at a potential (*E*<sup>j</sup> <sup>=</sup> 10) of 1.56 V, with an overpotential of 330 mV, which was comparable to ruthenium oxide (RuO2) (1.53 V@300 mV) and better than Co@CNTs (1.57 V@340 mV) (Figure S12, Supporting Information). In addition, the calculated Tafel curves show that Co@CNTs@NG has the lowest Tafel slope value (114 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), which is lower than that of RuO2 (137 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and Co@CNTs (119 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating that it has the best kinetics in the OER (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Finally, further LSV testing of ORR and OER was conducted in a 0.1 m KOH solution to obtain the potential difference between *E*1/2 and *E*<sup>j</sup> <sup>=</sup> <sup>10</sup> for evaluating the bifunctional catalytic activity of the catalyst. The results show that Co@CNTs@NG exhibits the smallest potential difference of 0.78 V, which is better than RuO2 (0.93 V) and Co@CNTs (0.84 V), confirming the excellent bifunctional catalytic activity of Co@CNTs@NG (Figure S14, Supporting Information).

Based on the exceptional ORR and OER performance of Co@CNTs@NG, we constructed liquid ZABs utilizing it as the cathode and a smooth Zn plate as the anode. **Figure [5](#page-7-0)**a demonstrates the stable open-circuit voltage (OCV) of the single-cell battery at 1.51 V, which closely approaches the theoretical value. By evaluating the discharge polarization curve of this battery, a maximum power density of 132.65 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was achieved at 220 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [5b\)](#page-7-0). The rate performance of the ZABs was examined at various discharge current densities ranging from 5 to 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. As illustrated in Figure [5c,](#page-7-0) the discharge voltage decreases with increasing current density. Notably, even at a high current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the discharge voltage remains above 0.4 V. Upon returning the current density to 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the voltage only experiences a slight attenuation of 0.001 V compared to the initial current density. The constant current discharge curve obtained at a current density of 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is presented in Figure [5d,](#page-7-0) where the discharge voltage starts to decline from 1.4 V until the Zn sheet is fully corroded and penetrated by the 6 m high-concentration alkaline solution. The calculated specific peak capacity reaches an impressive 816.8 mA h gZn<sup>−</sup>1.

Moreover, the charge–discharge curves and cycle energy efficiency of the ZABs are provided in Figure [5e,](#page-7-0) revealing its ability to maintain stable cyclic operation for 400 cycles within a 9 min cycle period, outperforming most ZABs employing similar catalysts. In the initial cycle, the discharge and charge voltages are 1.15 and 2.10 V, respectively, with a voltage gap of 0.95 V, resulting in a corresponding round-trip energy efficiency of 54.7%. During the middle cycles, the discharge and charge voltages are 1.16 and 2.11 V, respectively, with a voltage gap of 0.95 V, leading to a

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Open-circuit voltage curves of Co@CNTs@NG-based ZABs (inset: structure diagram of rechargeable ZABs Open circuit potential cur measurement b) Discharge polarization curves and power density plots of Co@CNTs@NG-based ZABs. c) Discharge curves of Co@CNTs@NG-based ZABs. d) Specific capacities of Co@CNTs@NG-based ZABs. e) Galvanostatic discharge–charge cycling curves of Co@CNTs@NG-based ZABs.

round-trip energy efficiency of 54.9%. In the final cycle stage, the discharge and charge voltages are 1.15 and 2.13 V, respectively, exhibiting an increased voltage gap of 0.98 V, resulting in a reduced round-trip energy efficiency of 53.9%, merely a decrease of 0.8% compared to the first cycle. These findings collectively highlight the promising application prospects of this catalyst in practical batteries.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, the Δ*E*ESP caused by gradient N doping can induce charge rearrangement on the surface of the carbon layer to optimize the interaction between the catalyst and the reaction intermediates, and ultimately improve the ORR activity of the catalyst. The gradient N-doped Co@CNTs@NG showed excellent ORR performance in 0.1 m KOH with an initial potential of 0.96 V and a half-wave potential of 0.86 V, which was much higher than that of non-gradient Co@C catalysts and comparable to Pt/C. In an assembled alkaline ZABs with Co@CNTs@NG as the cathode, the OCV is 1.51 V, the peak power density is 132.65 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, and the durability is excellent. The results of this study provide important strategies for regulating the catalytic activity of TM@C catalyst, deeply reveal the structure-activity relationship of electrocatalysts, provide a new idea for the design of efficient electrocatalysts, and contribute to the development of sustainable energy devices.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# <span id="page-8-0"></span>**Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 52173255, 52372083) and the Collaborative Innovation Center for Advanced Micro/nanomaterials and Equipment (coconstructed by Jiangsu Province and Ministry of Education).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

Z.Q. performed synthesis, characterization, and electrochemical measurement, DFT calculations, and wrote the original draft; Z.L. performed electrochemical measurement, wrote, reviewed, and edited the final manuscript; X.G. performed characterization and drawing; J.J. performed electrochemical measurement; S.L. performed electrochemical measurement. J.S. wrote, reviewed, and edited the final manuscript; X.W. wrote, reviewed, and edited the final manuscript; J.Z. wrote, reviewed, and edited the final manuscript; Y.F. performed conception and design of the research, wrote, reviewed, and edited the final manuscript.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

Co-based materials, electrostatic potential difference, gradient nitrogen doping, oxygen reduction reaction, Zn–air batteries

> Received: February 15, 2024 Revised: March 14, 2024 Published online: April 9, 2024

- [1] M. Zhang, H. Li, J. Chen, F.-X. Ma, L. Zhen, Z. Wen, C.-Y. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2209726.
- [2] Y.-X. Zhao, J.-H. Wen, P. Li, P.-F. Zhang, S.-N. Wang, D.-C. Li, J.- M. Dou, Y.-W. Li, H.-Y. Ma, L. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202216950.
- [3] Y. He, X. Yang, Y. Li, L. Liu, S. Guo, C. Shu, F. Liu, Y. Liu, Q. Tan, G. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1216.
- [4] Y. Li, K. Xu, Q. Zhang, Z. Zheng, S. Li, Q. Zhao, C. Li, C. Dong, Z. Mei, F. Pan, S. Dou, *J Energy Chem* **2022**, *66*, 100.
- [5] Y. Zhao, D. P. Adiyeri Saseendran, C. Huang, C. A. Triana, W. R. Marks, H. Chen, H. Zhao, G. R. Patzke, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 6257.
- [6] Y. Hong, L. Li, B. Huang, X. Tang, W. Zhai, T. Hu, K. Yuan, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2100866.
- [7] M. L. Pegis, B. A. McKeown, N. Kumar, K. Lang, D. J. Wasylenko, X. P. Zhang, S. Raugei, J. M. Mayer, *ACS Cent. Sci.* **2016**, *2*, 850.
- [8] G. A. El-Nagar, M. A. Hassan, A. Fetyan, M. K. Kayarkatte, I. Lauermann, C. Roth, *Appl. Catal. B* **2017**, *214*, 137.
- [9] C. Zhu, Q. Shi, B. Z. Xu, S. Fu, G. Wan, C. Yang, S. Yao, J. Song, H. Zhou, D. Du, S. P. Beckman, D. Su, Y. Lin, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801956.
- [10] X. Yang, X. Zheng, H. Li, B. Luo, Y. He, Y. Yao, H. Zhou, Z. Yan, Y. Kuang, Z. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200397.

- [11] R. G. Mariano, O. J. Wahab, J. A. Rabinowitz, J. Oppenheim, T. Chen, P. R. Unwin, M. Dinca, ˇ *ACS Cent. Sci.* **2022**, *8*, 975.
- [12] X. Hao, Z. Jiang, B. Zhang, X. Tian, C. Song, L. Wang, T. Maiyalagan, X. Hao, Z.-J. Jiang, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2004572.
- [13] X. Chen, J. Xiao, J. Wang, D. Deng, Y. Hu, J. Zhou, L. Yu, T. Heine, X. Pan, X. Bao, *Chem. Sci.* **2015**, *6*, 3262.
- [14] J. Zhu, M. Xiao, Y. Zhang, Z. Jin, Z. Peng, C. Liu, S. Chen, J. Ge, W. Xing, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 6335.
- [15] J. Deng, L. Yu, D. Deng, X. Chen, F. Yang, X. Bao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, 14868.
- [16] D. Li, Z. Li, Z. Chen, G. Shi, L. Wang, Z. Chen, W. Tu, R. Xia, E. I. Iwuoha, C. Liu, X. Peng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300427.
- [17] C. Fang, X. Tang, Q. Yi, *Appl. Catal. B* **2024**, *341*, 123346.
- [18] Y. Liu, H. Jiang, Y. Zhu, X. Yang, C. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 1694.
- [19] J. Meng, C. Niu, L. Xu, J. Li, X. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Xu, W. Chen, Q. Li, Z. Zhu, D. Zhao, L. Mai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8212.
- [20] Y. Wei, H. Xia, H. Lan, D. Xue, B. Zhao, Y. Yu, Y. Hu, J.-N. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *14*, 2303011.
- [21] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [22] X. Wang, Z. Zhou, X. Lin, Z. Pei, D. Liu, S. Zhao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *427*, 130995.
- [23] O. Y. Podyacheva, S. V. Cherepanova, A. I. Romanenko, L. S. Kibis, D. A. Svintsitskiy, A. I. Boronin, O. A. Stonkus, A. N. Suboch, A. V. Puzynin, Z. R. Ismagilov, *Carbon* **2017**, *122*, 475.
- [24] Z. Chen, R. Wu, Y. Liu, Y. Ha, Y. Guo, D. Sun, M. Liu, F. Fang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1802011.
- [25] J.-X. Liu, H.-Y. Su, D.-P. Sun, B.-Y. Zhang, W.-X. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16284.
- [26] C. Chen, Q. Wang, R. Zhang, B. Hou, D. Li, L. Jia, B. Wang, *Appl. Catal. A-Gen.* **2016**, *523*, 209.
- [27] R. Lizárraga, F. Pan, L. Bergqvist, E. Holmström, Z. Gercsi, L. Vitos, *Sci. Rep.* **2017**, *7*, 3778.
- [28] D. Chen, R. Lu, R. Yu, Y. Dai, H. Zhao, D. Wu, P. Wang, J. Zhu, Z. Pu, L. Chen, J. Yu, S. Mu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202208642.
- [29] H. Mao, X. Liu, S. Wu, G. Sun, G. Zhou, J. Chi, L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2302251.
- [30] L. Zhai, X. She, L. Zhuang, Y. Li, R. Ding, X. Guo, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhu, K. Xu, H. J. Fan, S. P. Lau, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116057.
- [31] Z. Yuan, J. Li, M. Yang, Z. Fang, J. Jian, D. Yu, X. Chen, L. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 4972.
- [32] M. Zhao, Y. Gu, W. Gao, P. Cui, H. Tang, X. Wei, H. Zhu, G. Li, S. Yan, X. Zhang, Z. Zou, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *266*, 118625.
- [33] T. Zhao, Q. Wang, Y. Kawazoe, P. Jena, *Carbon* **2018**, *132*, 249.
- [34] M. H. Seo, M. G. Park, D. U. Lee, X. Wang, W. Ahn, S. H. Noh, S. M. Choi, Z. P. Cano, B. Han, Z. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2018**, *239*, 677.
- [35] F. Kong, X. Cui, Y. Huang, H. Yao, Y. Chen, H. Tian, G. Meng, C. Chen, Z. Chang, J. Shi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116290.
- [36] L. Liu, Y. Wang, F. Yan, C. Zhu, B. Geng, Y. Chen, S.-l. Chou, *Small Methods* **2020**, *4*, 1900571.
- [37] T. Wang, Z. Kou, S. Mu, J. Liu, D. He, I. S. Amiinu, W. Meng, K. Zhou, Z. Luo, S. Chaemchuen, F. Verpoort, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1705048.
- [38] F. Zhang, Z. Jia, J. Zhou, J. Liu, G. Wu, P. Yin, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *450*, 138205.
- [39] Y.-Z. Chen, C. Wang, Z.-Y. Wu, Y. Xiong, Q. Xu, S.-H. Yu, H.-L. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 5010.
- [40] H. B. Yang, J. Miao, S.-F. Hung, J. Chen, H. B. Tao, X. Wang, L. Zhang, R. Chen, J. Gao, H. M. Chen, L. Dai, B. Liu, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, 1501122.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [41] D. H. Kweon, M. S. Okyay, S.-J. Kim, J.-P. Jeon, H.-J. Noh, N. Park, J. Mahmood, J.-B. Baek, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1278.
- [42] C. Wang, Z. Li, L. Wang, X. Niu, S. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 13873.
- [43] J. Wei, D. Xia, Y. Wei, X. Zhu, J. Li, L. Gan, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 7811.
- [44] Q. P. Ngo, T. T. Nguyen, M. Singh, N. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 1185.
- [45] W.-X. Hong, W.-H. Wang, Y.-H. Chang, H. Pourzolfaghar, I. H. Tseng, Y.-Y. Li, *Nano Energy* **2024**, *121*, 109236.
- [46] L. Ran, Y. Xu, X. Zhu, S. Chen, X. Qiu, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *18*, 750.