---
source: Son 等 - 2023 - N,S‐co‐doped FeCo Nanoparticles Supported on Porous Carbon Nanofibers as Efficient and Durable Oxyge.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 109.713s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:11:27.968099Z
---

www.chemsuschem.org

Check for updates

# N,S-co-doped FeCo Nanoparticles Supported on Porous Carbon Nanofibers as Efficient and Durable Oxygen **Reduction Catalysts**

Dong-kyu Son,<sup>[a]</sup> Sooan Bae,<sup>[b]</sup> Shrine Maria Nithya Jeghan,\*<sup>[a]</sup> and Gibaek Lee\*<sup>[a]</sup>

Finding high-performance, low-cost, efficient catalysts for oxygen reduction reactions (ORR) is essential for sustainable energy conversion systems. Herein, highly efficient and durable iron (Fe) and cobalt (Co)-supported nitrogen (N) and sulfur (S) codoped three-dimensional carbon nanofibers (FeCo-N, S@CNFs) were synthesized via electrospinning followed by carbonization. The as-prepared FeCo-N,S@CNFs served as efficient ORR catalysts in alkaline 0.1 M KOH solutions that were N<sub>2</sub> and O<sub>2</sub>saturated. The experimental results revealed FeCo-N,S@CNFs were highly active ORR catalysts with defectrich active pyridinic N and pyrrolic N and metal bonds to N and S atom sites, which enhanced the ORR activity. FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibited a high onset potential ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 0.89 \text{ V}$ ) and half-wave

potential ( $E_{1/2} = 0.85 \text{ V}$ ), similar to the electrocatalytic activity of commercial Pt/C. Additionally, the durability of the as-prepared FeCo-N,S@CNFs catalysts was maintained for 14 h with longterm stability and high tolerance to methanol stability, accounting for their excellent catalytic ability. Furthermore, Co-N@CNFs, Fe-N@CNFs, and varying Fe and Co ratios were compared with those of FeCo-N,S@CNFs. Synergistic interactions between metals and heteroatoms were believed to play a significant role in enhancing the ORR activity. Owing to their excellent catalytic reduction ability, the as-prepared FeCo-N,S@CNFs can be widely used in battery-based systems and replace commercial Pt/C in fuel cell applications.

### Introduction

The overreliance of technological developments on fossil fuel energy has resulted in excessive carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) emissions, which are expected to rise by approximately 43 gigatons by 2035.[1] Reducing CO<sub>2</sub> emissions and pursuing non-carbonemitting resources, such as sustainable renewable energy, is essential for future generations. Hydrogen is the most promising renewable energy source, and its chemical energy can be converted to electricity via electrochemical reactions in a fuel cell.[2] Fuel cell technologies are the most promising power sources for next-generation energy devices. The vast range of applications of fuel cells include low- or zero-emission vehicles, small/large-scale power generation plants, combined heat and power (CHP), power to laptops, chargers, wearable electric units, and military radio/communication devices.[3] Typical proton-exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC) are fueled with

Advanced Energy Materials Design Lab., School of Chemical Engineering

qibaek@ynu.ac.kr [b] S. Bae School of Earth Sciences and Environmental Engineering Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology 61005 Gwangju (Republic of Korea)

[a] D.-k. Son, Prof. S. M. Nithya Jeghan, Prof. G. Lee

38541 Gyeongsan (Republic of Korea)

Yeungnam University

E-mail: shrine@ynu.ac.kr

This publication is part of a collection of papers from contributors to the 7th Ertl Symposium on Catalysis in Electrochemistry (Gwangju, South Korea, October 26-29, 2022). Please visit chemsuschem.org/collections to view all contributions

hydrogen at the anode and oxygen at the cathode to undergo electrochemical hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR) and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). The PEMFC can output enough electric energy to be a promising solution for small-scale operations. [4] To date, the state-of-the-art catalyst platinum (Pt) on carbon supports (Pt/C) has been regarded as the best catalyst for both electrodes of PEMFC.<sup>[5]</sup> Unfortunately, it still suffers from sluggish ORR kinetics, including multiple hindrances, such as O<sub>2</sub> adsorption energy, O-O bond dissociation energy (OOH), and OH binding energy. [6] Further, pioneering work has commenced with Pt-supported catalysts (Pd/Pt/C, Pt/ WC) to increase the 4-electron transfer process. [7] However, their low catalytic activity, limited durability, low abundance, and high cost inevitably inhibit scalable implementation. [8] Hence, research efforts that have focused on developing efficient catalysts for alloying transition metals (M=Ti, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Cr, and Mn) with Pt (PtM) to increase OER kinetics still suffer from instability challenges. [9] Therefore, the design of Pt-free nonprecious transition metal-based oxides, nitrides, carbides, phosphates, and chalcogenides has attracted interest owing to their high electrochemical performance and low cost.[10] In addition, transition metal-nitrogen/carbon (M-N/C) catalysts are widely considered promising substitutes for Pt-based catalysts owing to their low cost, easy synthesis, and high ORR activity.[11] Currently, pristine carbonaceous materials such as graphene, carbon black, carbon nanotubes (CNTs), carbon nanofibers (CNFs), mesoporous carbon, and activated carbon are the most promising catalysts for ORR.[12] Particularly, owing to their electrical conductivity, high degree of graphitization, and corrosion resistance, CNFs and CNTs have attracted attention as electrocatalysts.[13] In general, carbon materials inherently have

3. 1. Downloaded from https://chemistry-urope.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library of Contents and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-an

inert reactivity to gain and lose electrons because their uniform charge density accounts for the low ORR.<sup>[14]</sup> Doping with heteroatoms (N, B, P, S, Br, Cl, and I) is an effective way to manipulate the electronic structure, tune the bandgap, and increase the number of active sites, thus enhancing the ORR activity as a good alternative to noble metal catalysts.<sup>[15]</sup> In particular, N and S co-doping with carbon-forming pyridinic-N and graphitic-N bonding facilitates the electron transfer process, endowing oxygen adsorption and boosting ORR kinetics.<sup>[16]</sup>

Prior scientific literature endorsed the classic M-N-C-based system; specifically, FeCo dual-metal-centered heteroatomdoped carbon materials, such as FeCo-N-doped graphitic carbon, FeCo-N-CNTs, FeCo-nitrogen co-doped porous carbon cages, Fe/N/S co-doped hierarchically porous carbon (FeNS/ HPC), FeCo-N-doped carbon, FeCoOx-MWCNT, FeCo@N,S-CNT, FeCo-N/C nanofiber, and CoFe nanoparticles coupled with S,N co-doned carbon nanotubes improved the performance. [15b,17] For carbon materials, a high degree of graphitized features exhibits good electrochemical oxidation resistance, allowing the high durability of the ORR performance.[18] Among all carbon materials, carbon nanofibers (CNFs) have emerged as potential host/support materials for transition metals because of their highly graphitic nature and excellent conductivity, providing longer electron transport channels for improving the electrochemical performance.[19] Three-dimensional (3D) CNF-based nanomaterials have attracted more attention than 0D and 1D nanomaterials owing to their unique properties and functions, such as high specific surface area, interconnected porous structure, light weight, and high mechanical strength.<sup>[20]</sup> 3D CNFs can be synthesized by a facile electrospinning technique followed by a carbonization process, providing a series of benefits, such as high electrical conductivity through the connection between the nanofibers, fast mass transmission from the network structure, and costeffectiveness from the simple preparation procedure.[21]

Polyacrylonitrile (PAN), a polymeric precursor, is widely used as a host material in preparing CNFs because of its high melting point, carbon yield, and nitrogen content. C22 Considering the nature of dual metal and heteroatom doping, we designed M—N,S/carbon-based catalysts from PAN and thiourea as carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur precursors to chelate with

transition metal ions to form M–N,S@CNF structures. [16b] To date, 1D CNF-supported materials have been widely studied for ORR, and in this study, 3D CNFs were prepared via a simple electrospinning process using starting materials such as Fe, Co nitrates, PAN, and thiourea. The dual metal Fe and Co (1:1 mol ratio) bonded with nitrogen and sulfur hosted on 3D carbon nanofiber were synthesized in a "top-down" approach followed by a subsequent carbonization process that yields Fe/Co (1:1 ratio) on N,S co-doped 3D CNFs, denoted as FeCo–N,S@CNF. The prepared catalysts exhibited excellent activity compared to Pt/C. The remarkable ORR activity in alkaline media is ascribed to the synergistic interactions between the Fe and Co centers coupled with heteroatoms in the 3D carbon framework.

Additionally, the porosity of the catalyst materials is an essential factor that can affect the accessibility to the catalytic active centers and the mass transfer of reaction species, and thus, the ORR activity. For comparison, the Fe/Co molar ratios were also optimized by varying FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNF, and FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNF. To clarify, the enhanced activity of dual metal center, CNF was also compared with single metal (Fe, Co) bonded nitrogen- and sulfur-doped 3D CNF (Fe—N,S@CNF and Co—N,S@CNF). In summary, FeCo—N,S@CNFs exhibit excellent electrochemical performance with a high onset potential of 0.89 V. These findings provide a new insight for boosting ORR catalyst, which can be an alternative for commercial Pt/C. Figure 1 illustrates the fabrication of FeCo-N,S@CNFs schematically.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Morphology features of Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo-N,S@CNFs

Figure 2 shows the field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images for the morphology and microstructure of Co–N,S@CNFs, Fe–N,S@CNFs, and FeCo–N,S@CNFs. An overview of the lowand high-resolution FESEM images (Figures 2a–c<sub>1</sub>) of all the samples reveals a 3D network-like CNFs after carbonization with metal particles. Before carbonization, the three samples' FESEM

Figure 1. Schematic illustration for the fabrication of porous FeCo-N,S@CNF catalyst.

1, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia, 10.0000 (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Commons. Licensia (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the articles are governed by the applicable Ceret

Figure 2. Low- and high-resolution FESEM images of  $(a,a_1)$  Co-N,S@CNFs,  $(b,b_1)$  Fe-N,S@CNFs, and  $(c,c_1)$  FeCo-N,S@CNFs after carbonization. (d) TEM, (e) HRTEM images, and (f) SAED patterns of FeCo-N,S@CNFs and (g-m) corresponding HAADF, elemental mapping images of individual Fe, Co, C, N, S, and O species (scale bars: 100 nm).

images show a smooth 1D CNFs texture without metal particles (Figure S1 in the Supporting Information). N and S doped on Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo-N,S@CNFs were randomly oriented on graphitic planes, and no hollow cores were observed. These 3D CNFs were formed by cross-linking and exhibited an average diameter of approximately around 140 nm. In Co-N,S@CNFs, smaller metal particles embedded in CNF with limited voids were observed (Figure 2a,a<sub>1</sub>). For Fe-N,S@CNFs, a smooth homogeneous surface with no porous voids can be identified in Figure 2b,b<sub>1</sub>. More interestingly, in the case of FeCo-N,S@CNFs densely formed FeCo nanoparticles hosted on CNFs exhibit more porous voids (Figure 2c,c<sub>1</sub>). This characteristic feature might be beneficial to improve the ORR activity by enhancing the conductivity of the catalyst.[23] In detail, the presence of voids and defects in FeCo-N,S@CNFs increases the contact between the electrolyte and electrode thereby activating their electrochemical performance (Figure 2c<sub>1</sub>). Additionally, single metal-doped catalysts of Co-N@CNFs, Fe-N@CNFs, and various metal ratios of FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNFs and FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNFs were prepared to gain insight into the structural formation and electrochemical activity. The corresponding FESEM images before and after carbonization were presented in Figure S2 (Supporting Information). The Co-N@CNFs exhibited a smooth 1D structure similar to that of Co-N,S@CNFs before carbonization (Figure S2a in Supporting Information). After carbonization, both samples showed a 3D network-like formation of CNFs, with cobalt nanoparticles attached to the CNF, with defects owing to the diffusion of the metal precursor solution within the individual fibers, which later crystallized as particles during the carbonization (Figure S2b in Supporting Information). [24] In the case of the Fe-N@CNFs, samples before and after carbonization had a smooth surface (Figure S2c,d in the Supporting Information) indicating no collapse on the structure even though carbonization was carried out at a high temperature. This outcome suggests that the structure is strongly prevented by Fe-N-C bond formation, which resists carbon oxidation. This phenomenon was also reflected in the fabrication of Fe-N,S@CNF, in agreement with previous reports on electrospun synthesized Fe-N-CNFs.[25] The FESEM images of FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNFs before and after carbonization (Figures S2e-h in the Supporting Information) resemble the structures

1. Downloaded from https://chemistry-u-rope.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://online.library.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

of FeCo–N,S@CNFs [FeCo(1:1)-N,S@CNFs]. Before carbonization, smooth 3D nanofibers with a clear surface were observed, whereas 3D fibers with voids and large FeCo nanoparticles were observed after carbonization. In the case of Fe—N@CNF and Co—N@CNF before carbonization, a smooth 3D nanofiber morphology was observed; after carbonization, Fe—N@CNF retained its smooth texture. In the Co—N@CNF, the nanoparticles were disturbed by the fibers.

High-resolution (HR)TEM observations of FeCo–N,S@CNFs were performed to further investigate the structural properties. Figure 2d shows the tip of well-dispersed FeCo nanoparticles with dark spots anchored in mesoporous fibers formed by the synergistic effect of Fe and Co during carbonization. The HRTEM image in Figure 2e reveals lattice spacings of approximately 0.202 and 0.34 nm corresponding to the (110) plane of FeCo nanoparticles and (002) graphitic planes, respectively. The selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern in Figure 2f shows diffraction rings and spots corresponding to the (110)

plane of FeCo nanoparticles. High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and elemental mapping images (Figures 2g-m) reveal individual species of Fe, Co, N, S, C, and O with weight percentages 3.48, 3.48, 7.42, 1.30, 3.80, and 79.44%, which were uniformly distributed in the carbon matrix of CNFs. Figure S3 (Supporting Information) presents the results of energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX). From the detailed structural analyses, it can be concluded that dual metal, heteroatom-doped species FeCo-N,S@CNF (with metal ratios of 1:3, 1:1, and 3:1) have a greater number of defects such as voids and increased particle size as compared to the single metal, dual heteroatom-doped (Fe-N,S@CNF, Co-N,S@CNF) species, as shown in the Raman spectra (Figure 3b).

Figure 3. (a) XRD patterns and (b) Raman spectra of N@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo-N,S@CNFs after carbonization. (c) TGA/DTG curves of FeCo-N,S@CNFs. High-resolution XPS spectra of FeCo-N,S@CNFs: (d) Fe 2p, (e) Co 2p, (f) C 1s, (g) N 1s, (h) S 2p, and (i) O 1s.

# Structural and compositional characterization of FeCo-N,S@CNFs

The crystal properties of N@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo-N,S@CNFs were investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Raman spectroscopy analyses. The XRD pattern illustrated in Figure 3a for N@CNFs shows a prominent peak at  $2\theta$  of 24.27 and 44.4°, corresponding to the (002) plane of graphitic carbon (PDF # 41-1487). Typically, all other samples show a decrease in the intensity of the carbon peak and have an irregular shape, which indicates that metals (Fe or Co), nitrogen, and sulfur are homogeneously distributed within the carbon matrix of CNFs. [27] The XRD patterns of Co-N,S@CNFs show mixed phases of Co metal at  $2\theta$  = 44.03, 51.3, and 75.8°, related to the (111), (200), and (220) lattice planes of Co (PDF # 15-0806), respectively. The other three peaks at 36.7, 42.1, and 61.2° were assigned to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of Co-N (PDF # 16-0116).[28] Contrastingly, the diffraction peaks located at approximately 37.6, 40.1, and 43.1° for Fe-N,S@CNFs were detected, which can be indexed to the (102), (002), and (101) planes of Fe-N (PDF # 02-1206). In addition, a weak diffraction peak at  $44.8^{\circ}$  was observed for pure Fe (PDF # 87-0722) in Fe-N,S@CNFs. [29] In particular, the co-reduction of Co<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> from the FeCo (PDF # 48-1817) particles was observed in the XRD patterns of FeCo-N,S@CNFs. It is widely accepted that metals and alloys can influence the graphitization of nitrogencontaining compounds and doping with heteroatoms.<sup>[17g]</sup> Furthermore, the Raman spectra of N@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibited two peaks at 1355 cm<sup>-1</sup> for the D-band originating from disordered carbon and 1575 cm<sup>-1</sup> for the G-band from ordered graphitic carbon (Figure 3b). The intensity ratio of  $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$  in FeCo–N,S@CNFs (1.00) was higher than that of Fe-N,S@CNFs (0.98), Co-N,S@CNFs (0.97), and N@CNFs (0.90), indicating that FeCo-N,S@CNFs had significant defects. Generally, the increase in the intensity of  $I_D/I_G$  ratio is related to the existence of structural disorder in the carbon lattice owing to the heteroatomic doping effect, and the  $E_{2a}$  vibration state in sp<sup>2</sup> bonded carbon atoms corresponds to graphitic carbon.[26] The proportions of these defects depend on the formation ratio of pyrrolic, pyridinic, and graphitic nitrogen functions, which can be directly related to the active sites for ORR.[30]

Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) was performed under an N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere from 25 to 900 °C to examine the thermal stability of FeCo-N,S@CNFs. Figure 3c displays the TG and their corresponding derivative TG (DTG) curves of FeCo-N,S@CNFs, showing four weight-loss stages. First, in the temperature range of 25-320°C, a weight loss of 17% occurred due to the removal of hydroxyl, carboxyl, and water molecules, resulting in intramolecular dehydration and the formation of C-O and C-C bonds. A weight loss of 45% occurred upon the second decomposition of PAN at 320-365 °C, resulting in the transformation of the nanofibers to the graphitic structure of carbon nanofiber.[31] Furthermore, with an increase in temperature, two stages of weight loss from carbon and metal particle oxidation from 365 to 520 °C and 520 to 900 °C, resulting in residual yields of 85 to 99%. DTG curve possesses a low-intensity peak at approximately 50°C, corresponding to the loss of water absorbed from its surface. The very sharp peak at  $360\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  oxidation of PAN and the low-intensity broad peak at 390 and  $500\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  indicate the cleavage of nitrile and sulfur functional groups, respectively.

The chemical composition and valence states of FeCo-N,S@CNFs were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), resulting that the atomic percentages of Fe, Co, C, N, S, and O were 3.39, 4.12, 59.69, 6.17, 2.67, and 23.69%, respectively. Figures 3d-i depict the high-resolution deconvoluted spectra of Fe2p, Co2p, C1s, N1s, S2p, and O1s. The Fe2p confirms the existence of four types of iron species: metallic Fe<sup>0</sup>, Fe-N, Fe-O, and Fe-S (Figure 3d). In the typical spectra, the peaks at 710.48 and 721.86 eV are related to metallic Fe<sup>0</sup>. The peaks assigned at 712.75 and 727.11 eV corresponds to Fe-N, the peaks at 721.11 and 724.06 eV attributed to Fe-O, and the peaks located at 707.73 and 720.08 eV are for Fe-S, which suggests that Fe possibly existed as the Fe<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> species.<sup>[32]</sup> In particular, the high-intensity peaks of Fe-N indicate an increase in pyrrolic N and pyridinic N ratio. The introduction of S atoms into the carbon matrix can produce structural defects, implying that S doping can break the graphitic bonds and form a high ratio of pyrrolic N and pyridinic N. Both nitrogen contents enhance the ORR activity due to two and one electron per  $\pi$ -system, respectively. [26] Moreover, Fe-N bonding in the carbon structure could more easily lose an electron, leading to carbon gaining a positive charge and thus efficiently adsorbing oxygen. Similarly, Co<sup>0</sup> (780.6, 796.5 eV), Co-N (785.79, 800.36 eV), Co-O (782.62, 797.98 eV), and Co-S (779.13, 795.87 eV) exist in Co2p (Figure 3e).[16b,28] Co-O bonds indicate that the Co atoms are positively charged (i.e., Co<sup>2+</sup> valence state).[33] Figure 3f shows the details of the C1s spectra with four characteristic peaks at 284.42, 286.06, 287.68, and 287.68 eV corresponding to C-C/C=C, C-N, C-S, and O-C=O.[34] The C-N and C-S species further confirmed that nitrogen atoms were doped into the carbon matrix.[35] Importantly, the unusual formation of  $\pi$ - $\pi$  stacking in CNFs at a peak position of 291 eV confirms C-N bonding from C=C electrons and N lone pairs.[35] On the other hand, N1s deconvoluted spectra reveal the five components pyridinic N, M-N, pyrrolic N, graphitic N, and oxidized N species at the peak values of 398.24, 399.39, 400.70, and 405.87 eV, respectively (Figure 3g).[36] Among these nitrogen species, pyridinic N can significantly contribute to ORR performance by weakening the O-O bond, while graphitic N enhances the conductivity of the catalyst.[37] In the same scenario, S2p spectra also show four characteristic peaks of M-S, C-S, C=S, and  $S-O_x$  at 162.09, 163.98, 165.87, and 168.41 eV. [35,38] In addition, the structural characteristic of surface oxygen atoms (O1s) exhibits four characteristic peaks of lattice O atoms at 529.5, 531.08, 531.9, and 534.5 eV corresponding to M-O-M, C=O, C-O-C/C-OH, and O-S. [39] Consequently, the results illustrate the successful preparation of N and S atoms in FeCo-N,S@CNFs, resulting in the introduction of N and S atoms. Their synergetic effect within the carbon materials has decreased the charge transfer resistance, enhancing their catalytic performance.[40] For more accurate studies, CHNS elemental analysis results confirmed the C (54.32%), N (7.721%), S (1.482%), and O (12.08%) contents in FeCo-N,S@CNFs (Table S1 in the Supporting Information), which is consistent with the TEM observation and was further confirmed by XPS measurements. Furthermore, the N<sub>2</sub> adsorption–desorption

isotherms were used to measure the texture property of the catalysts (Figure S4 in the Supporting Information). All the samples (FeCo-N,S@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, and Fe-N,S@CNFs) followed the type IV isotherm under relatively low  $N_2$  pressure ( $P/P_0 = 0-0.015$ ), and then a well-defined hysteresis loop at higher N<sub>2</sub> pressures (P/  $P_0 = 0.4-0.95$ ) with a hysteresis loop at higher relative pressure, which proves the presence of micropores and mesopores with a large surface area of catalysts (Figure S4a in the Supporting Information). In particular, FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibited the highest specific surface area of 433.51  $\text{m}^2\text{g}^{-1}$  compared to Co–N,S@CNFs  $(142.49 \text{ m}^2\text{g}^{-1})$  and Fe–N,S@CNFs  $(60.495 \text{ m}^2\text{g}^{-1})$  with an average pore size of 2.117, 2.522, and 4.069 nm (Figure S4b in the Supporting Information). The high surface area of FeCo-N,S@CNFs may be attributed to the small size of FeCo-NPs as well as open porous voids of CNF after carbonization, which produce the high pore density and more active sites for improving the ORR performance.[41]

### Electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction of FeCo-N,S@CNFs

The electrochemical properties of FeCo-N,S@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and commercial Pt/C as benchmark reference catalysts were systematically evaluated using the rotating disk electrode (RDE) method in a standard three-electrode system. First, cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were performed to study the ORR performance of all the samples in N<sub>2</sub>- or O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte solution at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 4a). All the samples exhibited symmetric rectangular CV curves with cathodic oxygen reduction peaks in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte: FeCo-N,S@CNFs (8.0 V), Co-N,S@CNFs (0.789 V), Fe-N-S@CNFs (0.68 V), and Pt/C (0.827 V) [all values vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)]. Meanwhile, there was no obvious oxygen reduction peak in the N<sub>2</sub> saturated electrolyte. This difference in oxidation potential is directly related to the catalytic activity. FeCo-N,S@CNFs and Pt/C exhibited more positive potentials than the other samples, indicating that FeCo-N,S@CNF were highly active ORR catalysts. Therefore, the Fe and Co contents were manifested through the Fe<sup>2+</sup>/Fe<sup>3+</sup> or Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> redox peaks in the CV curves of FeCo-N,S@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, and Fe-N,S@CNFs. The significant Fe sites (Fe<sup>2+</sup>/Fe<sup>3+</sup>) or cobalt sites (Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup>) in FeCo-N,S@CNFs showed improved catalytic performance compared to individual Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, owing to the excavated Fe-N/Fe-S or Co-N/Co-S species formed via the carbonization process. For more quantitative analysis, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) for all the samples (FeCo-N,S@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, and Pt/C) was studied in O2-saturated electrolyte in RDE at a rotating rate of 1600 rpm. Figures 4b,c shows the typical LSV curves and relations with the catalytic activity of different samples. All LSV curves are *iR*-corrected, and FeCo-N,S@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs show exceptional ORR performance down-shifted in current density compared with Pt/C, which can be attributed to the incorporation Fe or Co with N,S and the effect of carbonization producing a porous structure confirmed by Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) analysis. Consequently, the conductivity of catalysts has shown a significant improvement.[42] The plots indicate the onset potential ( $E_{onset} = 0.89 \text{ V}$ ), half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2} = 0.85 \text{ V}$ ), and limiting current density (-5.32 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at the potential of 0.4 V) for FeCo-N,S@CNFs. These values are similar to those of Pt/ C (0.89 V, 0.868 V, and  $-5.05 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at 0.4 V). This result indicates that the prepared FeCo-N,S@CNFs catalyst is an efficient alternative ORR catalyst for PEMFC compared with commercial Pt/ C. Further, FeCo-N,S@CNFs possess the high onset potential compared to that of single metal support catalyst, Co-N,S@CNFs  $(0.87 \text{ V}, 0.848 \text{ V}, -4.23 \text{ mA cm}^{-2} \text{ at } 0.4 \text{ V})$  and Fe–N,S@CNFs  $(0.82 \text{ V}, 0.76 \text{ V}, -5.29 \text{ mA} \text{ cm}^{-2} \text{ at } 0.4 \text{ V})$ . The onset potential, halfwave potential, and limiting current at 0.4 V (0.89 V, 0.85 V, -5.32 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) for FeCo-N,S@CNFs were also compared with other-reported ORR catalysts like MOF-FeCo/CNFs (0.90 V, 0.81 V,  $-4.8 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), N/Fe-CG (1.04 V, 0.86 V,  $-5 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), Fe-S/N-C  $(0.94 \text{ V}, 0.83 \text{ V}, -4.5 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}), \text{ CoFe/S-N-C} (0.92 \text{ V}, 0.85 \text{ V},$  $-4.8 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), FeCo/Co<sub>2</sub>P@NPCF (0.84 V, 0.79 V,  $-5 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ) and FeNi/N—CPCF-950 (0.95 V, 0.86 V,  $-5.7 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), [8,16b,43] as summarized in Table S2 (Supporting Information), which shows that asprepared FeCo-N,S@CNFs is electrochemically superior to others.

As shown in Figure 3d, the Tafel slope of FeCo-N,S@CNFs (64 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) is approximately equal to that of Pt/C (62 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and much smaller than that of Co-N,S@CNFs (100 mV dec-1) and Fe-N-S@CNFs (187 mVdec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that FeCo-N,S@CNFs have excellent electrochemical ORR performance. Furthermore, the electrical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm cll}$ ) was calculated for Co-N,S@CNFs, FeCo-N,S@CNFs, and Fe-N-S@CNFs at different scan rates (Figure S5 in the Supporting Information). The  $C_{cl}$  values are 3.72, 4.99, and 8.28 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 3e). The decrease in  $C_{\rm dl}$ value for FeCo-N,S@CNFs compared to Fe-N,S@CNF is the particle size distribution of Fe and Co in the carbon matrix. The  $C_{dl}$  values of FeCo-N,S@CNFs were intermediate between those of Co-N,S@CNF and Fe-N,S@CNFs. Furthermore, the superior activity of FeCo-N,S@CNFs might also be due to the synergistic effect of Fe and Co, which can increase the electrocatalytic activity. To elucidate the synergistic interaction of dual metals (Fe, Co) and dual heteroatom (N, S) characteristic feature, it is compared with single-metal doping (Fe-N@CNF, Co-N@CNF). The CV and LSV results of Fe-N@CNF and Co-N@CNF in N2- and O2-saturated KOH solution are given in Figure S6a,b in the Supporting Information. As expected, the reduction peaks were observed only in O<sub>2</sub>saturated KOH solution, and none in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated KOH solution. The onset potential and half-wave potential of Co-N@CNFs (0.865 and 0.838 V, respectively) were higher than those of Fe-N@CNFs (0.826 and 0. 77 V), but the limiting current density of Co-N@CNFs (-3.18 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) is lower than that of Fe-N@CNFs (-5.23 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). The onset potential, half-wave potential, and limiting current density of FeCo-N,S@CNFs were significantly enhanced compared to Fe-N@CNF and Co-N@CNF. To further understand the role of the metal species, FeCo-N,S@CNFs consisting of Fe and Co in a 1:1 ratio were compared with FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNFs and FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNFs with different ratios of Fe and Co. The CV and LSV curves of FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNFs, FeCo(1:1)-N,S@CNFs, and FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNFs are shown in Figure S6c,d (Supporting Information). From these results, it is clear that FeCo(1:1)-N,S@CNFs exhibit the highest  $E_{onset}$ ,  $E_{1/2}$ , and limiting current density (0.89 V, 0.858 V, and  $-5.32 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at 0.4 V) compared with FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNFs (0.88 V, 0.843 V, and

3, 1, Downloaded from https://chemistry-uerope.onlinelibrary.wie.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. (a) CV, (b) LSV curves, (c) graph representing onset potential, half wave potential, and limiting current at 0.4 V, and (d) Tafel slope of FeCo–N,S@CNFs, Co–N,S@CNFs, Fe-N–S@CNFs, and commercial Pt/C. (e) Calculated electrical  $C_{\rm cl}$  and (f) Koutecky–Levich plot for FeCo–N,S@CNFs, Co–N,S@CNFs, and Fe–N,S@CNFs. (g) Percentage yield of  $H_2O_2$  in the total oxygen reduction products and the electron transfer number per oxygen (n) of FeCo–N,S@CNFs based on the RRDE measurements.

3. 1. Downloaded from https://chemistry-urope.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library of Contents and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Ceretive Common Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-and-conditions) on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errers-an

 $-4.79 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at 0.4 V) and FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNFs (0.868 V, 0.36 V, and  $-4.16 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at 0.4 V). Consequently, it can be concluded that dual metal atoms play a significant role in enhancing the ORR activity.

To further explore the activity of FeCo-N,S@CNFs, and Pt/C catalysts, the electron transfer number (n) is evaluated from the LSV curves increasing the rotation speed from 400 to 3600 rpm (Figure S7a,b in the Supporting Information), and its linear increase of the limiting current density  $(J_1)$  at 0.3 to 0.6 V (Figure 4f and Figure S7c in the Supporting Information). According to the Koutecky-Levich equation, the average electron transfer number was calculated to be greater than n=4 for FeCo-N,S@CNFs and Pt/C, which is unusual compared to other results. This problem is similarly observed in another report describing the hydrodynamic conditions that need reexamining for non-precious or transition metals.[44] To further confirm and accurately refine the electron transfer number, a typical experiment was conducted using the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) method in an H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> solution. Figure 3g and Figure S7d (Supporting Information) show the LSV curves of FeCo-N,S@CNFs and Pt/C with corresponding electron transfer number and hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>) yield, which is calculated in the potential range of 0.4 to 0.7 V for ORR. The H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yields were <1% and n=4 for FeCo-N,S@CNFs and Pt/C. These results indicate that FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibit excellent electrocatalytic activity for the ORR in an alkaline solution via an effective four-electron process. Figure 5 illustrates the mechanism for the four-electron transfer process, which can be explained by the structure. In FeCo-N,S@CNFs, the dual metal (FeCo) bonded with N and S atoms has M-N, pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N species, and the coexistence of C-S and M-S structures plays a major role in the four-electron transfer number and creates the active sites for ORR. [20]

Catalyst stability is a vital factor for ORR catalysis. Accordingly, chronopotentiometry (CP) measurement for both the Pt/C cata-

lysts and FeCo-N,S@CNFs was investigated at a 0.4 V. Figure 6a shows the long-term stability of Pt/C catalysts and FeCo-N,S@CNFs, demonstrating that FeCo-N,S@CNFs catalyst exhibit good stability of 82% retention after 12 h during a continuous operation, and it is more stable than Pt/C (79%). Moreover, the methanol tolerance of the catalyst is an essential criterion for PEMFC and direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC) applications. Figure 6b shows the chronoamperometry responses of the FeCo-N,S@CNFs and Pt/C catalysts that were measured in the presence of methanol in the electrolyte solution to test the methanol tolerance. It can be inferred that after adding 3 M methanol to a 0.1 M KOH O2-saturated solution, FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibited a negligible change in the ORR current and even maintained 95% of retention. However, the ORR current of the Pt/ C catalyst exhibited a drastic decrease when methanol was added under the same testing conditions, yielding 85% of retention. This result shows that the FeCo-N,S@CNFs catalyst has superior high methanol tolerance compared to the Pt/C catalyst. Furthermore, the cyclic stabilities of FeCo-N,S@CNFs, and Pt/C were evaluated after 2000 continuous CV cycles (Figure 6c,d). The half-wave potentials of FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibited an almost 10 mV shift under N2 and O2 cycling, which is more stable than that of Pt/C (30 mV). Furthermore, the onset potential of FeCo-N,S@CNFs of 2 mV was maintained after 2000 cycles, whereas that of Pt/C onset potential was decreased to 20 mV after cycling. Consequently, the as-prepared FeCo-N,S@CNF catalysts were very stable in alkaline solutions, with high ORR activity and durability. Figure S8 (Supporting Information) shows the corresponding CV curves for Pt/C and FeCo-N,S@CNFs, indicating their continuous stability.

#### Conclusion

We developed unique 3D carbon nanofibers (CNFs) doped with dual metals (Fe and Co) and heteroatoms (N and S) using a

Figure 5. Schematic representation of ORR reaction pathway on FeCo-N,S@CNFs.

3, 1, Downloaded from https://chemistry-u-repope.ninelibrary.wiey.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://online library.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensea.

Figure 6. (a) Comparison of the selectivity and durability of FeCo–N,S@CNF and commercial Pt/C in 1 M methanol. (b) Corresponding relative current as a function of time at 0.4 V. Cyclic stability of (c) FeCo–N,S@CNFs and (d) commercial Pt/C after 2000 CV cycles.

single-step electrospinning technique, followed by carbonization to produce FeCo-N,S@CNFs. The good electrocatalytic activity of the resulting systems for proton-exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) applications was demonstrated through structural, physicochemical, and electrochemical evaluation. The as-prepared FeCo-N,S@CNFs exhibited high activity and superior stability as active oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalysts through the 4-electron transfer process as compared to single metal-doped CNFs with nitrogen and sulfur (i.e., Co-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs) and different metal ratios of FeCo(1:3)-N,S@CNF, and FeCo(3:1)-N,S@CNF, which showed similar performance to commercial Pt/C catalysts. The high activity of FeCo-N,S@CNFs can be attributed to the 3D structure and strong synergistic interactions between the metals and heteroatoms hosted by the CNFs, leading to further enhancement of the corrosion resistance and stability. Accordingly, FeCo-N,S@CNFs displayed excellent ORR performance with a high onset potential ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 0.89 \text{ V}$ ) and high positive half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2} = 0.85 \text{ V}$ ) over commercial Pt/C, as well as better long-term stability for approximately 14 h and strong methanol resistance under alkaline conditions. Overall, the results suggest that this low-cost preparation of ORR catalysts

could replace commercial Pt/C catalysts in PEMFCs. These new catalysts have a wide range of applications in batteries, water splitting,  $\rm CO_2$  reduction, and wastewater treatment.

### **Experimental Section**

#### Materials

Cobalt(II) nitrate hexahydrate [Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O], polyacrylonitrile (PAN), and thiourea (CH<sub>4</sub>N<sub>2</sub>S) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Iron(II) nitrate nonahydrate [Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·9H<sub>2</sub>O], dimethylformamide (DMF), and potassium hydroxide (KOH) were obtained from Duskan Pure Chemicals Co. Ltd. All the chemicals were used without further purification. Deionized (DI) water was used throughout the experiments. Gases such as nitrogen and oxygen cylinders 99% pure grade were purchased from Daedong Gas Tech.

# Synthesis of FeCo-N,S@CNFs, Fe-N,S@CNFs, Co-N,S@CNFs, and N@CNFs

First, 0.101 g of  $Fe(NO_3)_2 \cdot 9H_2O$  and 0.038 g of  $CH_4N_2S$  were dissolved in DMF (2.5 mL) and stirred separately for 2 h. Second, 0.0725 q of  $Co(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$  and 0.038 g of  $CH_4N_2S$  were dissolved in

3, 1, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc202201528 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-ad-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

DMF (2.5 mL) and stirred separately for 2 h. Finally, the solutions were added together with the addition of 0.3 g of PAN and continuously stirred at 60 °C for 20 h. The well-formed homogenous mixture was loaded in a 5 mL syringe of the electrospinning process with a 21-gauge needle fixed at a 6 µL min<sup>-1</sup> flow rate at a 12 kV DC voltage. An aluminum foil-covered metal plate, acting as an electrode, was placed vertically to collect the nanofibers at a needle tip-to-plate distance of 15 cm. The formed as-spun nanofibers were collected and stabilized in the air atmosphere at 280 °C for 2 h, followed by carbonization at  $800\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  for 1 h in the  $N_2$ atmosphere forming thermally stable three-dimensional carbon nanofibers (3D CNFs) named as FeCo-N,S@CNFs. For comparison, Fe and Co mole ratios of 1:3 and 3:1, respectively, were also prepared. To study the efficiency of dual-metal center heteroatomdoped CNFs, we also prepared single-metal Fe- or Co-metal-bonded nitrogen- and sulfur-doped 3D CNFs represented as Fe-N,S@CNFs and Co-N,S@CNFs under the same experimental conditions using appropriate Fe or Co precursors and thiourea. Pristine N@CNFs were prepared without the addition of metal sources and thiourea.

#### Characterization

The crystallographic information of the as-prepared materials was examined using XRD (DIATOME) with a nickel-filtered Cu- $\rm K_{\alpha}$  radiation source (40 kV, 30 mA, 1.54051 Å). The morphology of the samples was characterized using FESEM (S-4800, HITACHI). Detailed structural features, lattice spacing, SAED pattern, and elemental composition were observed using HRTEM and STEM-HAADF (FEI Tecnai G2 F20 instrument with an accelerating voltage of 200 kV). XPS measurements were performed using an ESCALAB 250 instrument to determine the elemental surface composition of the samples. All samples were evaluated using a micro-Raman spectrophotometer (XploRA, Horiba) with an Ar $^+$  laser (532 nm) at the Core Research Support Center for Natural Products and Medical Materials at Yeungnam University. Thermal stabilities were measured using TG-DTA at a heating rate of  $10\,^{\circ}\rm C\,min^{-1}$ , ramped from 0 to  $900\,^{\circ}\rm C\,in\,air$ .

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

All electrochemical measurements were conducted using an Autolab potentio/galvanostat (PGSTAT 302 N, Metrohm, Eco-chemie, Utrecht, Netherlands) equipped with three-electrode glass cells. In a typical setup, a glassy carbon electrode (0.196 cm<sup>-2</sup>) was used as the working electrode. Ag/AgCl (3.5 M KCl) and Pt electrodes were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. The catalyst was prepared as a working electrode. About 5 mg of as-prepared catalyst was sonicated with 500 μL isopropanol, 480 μL ethanol, and 20 µL 5% Nafion. Then, 20 µL of the ink was dropped onto the glassy carbon electrode and dried at room temperature. The catalyst loading was calculated as 0.5 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. For comparison, Pt/C with a loading mass of 0.03  $\mathrm{mg_{pt}cm^{-2}}$  was used CV curves were measured in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> on an RDE to test the ORR performance. The LSV curves were measured from 1.0 to 0.2 V vs. RHE in an  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with a rotating speed from 400 to 3600 rpm.

All measured potentials were converted to RHE according to Nernst Equation (1) as follows:

$$E_{RHE} = E_{Ag/AgCI} + 0.0592 \text{ pH} + 0.197 \tag{1}$$

The electron transfer number was calculated using the Koutecky–Levich Equation (2) with Equations (3) and (4) that follow:

$$\frac{1}{J} = \frac{1}{J_{k}} + \frac{1}{J_{l}} = \frac{1}{J_{k}} + \frac{1}{(B_{\odot} \frac{g}{G})}$$
 (2)

$$\frac{1}{B} = 0.2nFC_0(D_0)^{2/3}v^{-1/6} \tag{3}$$

$$J_{k} = nFkC_{0} \tag{4}$$

where  $J_k$  and  $J_l$  are the kinetic current and limiting current densities [mA cm<sup>-2</sup>], respectively. B is the slope of the Koutecky–Levich equation,  $\omega$  is the electrode rotating rate, F is the Faraday constant (F=96485 Cmol<sup>-1</sup>), and  $C_0$  is the bulk concentration of  $O_2$  (1.2×  $10^{-6}$  mol cm<sup>-3</sup>).  $D_0$  is the diffusion coefficient of  $O_2$  in 0.1 M KOH (1.9× $10^{-5}$  cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), and v is the kinetic viscosity of the electrolyte (0.01 cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>). The double-layer capacitance was estimated under a non-faradaic region by measuring the capacitive current associated with double-layer charging, calculated from the different CV scan rates for the ORR. RRDE measurements were recorded with catalyst inks and electrodes prepared using the same method as RDE measurements. The disk electrode was scanned at a rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, and the ring potential was constant at 0.5 V vs. Ag/AgCl. The hydrogen peroxide yield ( $H_2O_2$ %) and the electron transfer number (n) were calculated using Equation (5):

$$\%H_{2}O_{2} = 100 \times \frac{\frac{2I_{R}}{N}}{I_{D} + \binom{I_{R}}{N}}$$
 (5)

where  $I_{\rm D}$  is the disk current,  $I_{\rm R}$  is the ring current, and N is the current-collection efficiency.

## Acknowledgements

This research was supported by Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF), funded by the Ministry of Education (NRF-2019R111A3A01046928) and the KOGAS (Korea Gas Corporation) Research Institute (RD2021-0151).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** carbon nanofibers • electrocatalysis • fuel cells • heteroatom doping • oxygen reduction reaction

- [1] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, Nature 2012, 488, 294-303.
- [2] D. Y. Chung, J. M. Yoo, Y.-E. Sung, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1704123.
- [3] a) J. S. Zheng, X. Z. Wang, R. Fu, P. Li, D. J. Yang, H. Lu, J. X. Ma, Carbon Mater. 2011, 26, 262–270; b) Y. Wang, H. Yuan, A. Martine, P. Hong, H. Xu, F. R. Bockmiller, Appl. Energy 2021, 2, 100011; c) R. E. Yonoff, G. V. Ochoa, Y. Cardenas-Escorcia, J. I. Silva-Ortega, L. Merino-Stand, Heliyon 2019, 5, e01724.

- [4] a) X. Wang, Z. Li, Y. Qu, T. Yuan, W. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Li, Chem 2019, 5, 1486–1511; b) A. Kulkarni, S. Siahrostami, A. Patel, J. K. Nørskov, Chem. Rev. 2018, 118, 2302–2312.
- [5] J. Liu, M. Jiao, L. Lu, H. M. Barkholtz, Y. Li, Y. Wang, L. Jiang, Z. Wu, D. Liu, L. Zhuang, C. Ma, J. Zeng, B. Zhang, D. Su, P. Song, W. Xing, W. Xu, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, G. Sun, Nat. Commun. 2017, 8, 15938.
- [6] S. G. Peera, R. Koutavarapu, S. Akula, A. Asokan, P. Moni, M. Selvaraj, J. Balamurugan, S. O. Kim, C. Liu, A. K. Sahu, Energy Fuels 2021, 35, 11761–11799.
- [7] a) G. Zhang, Z.-G. Shao, W. Lu, F. Xie, H. Xiao, X. Qin, B. Yi, Appl. Catal. B 2013, 132–133, 183–194; b) N. R. Elezovic, B. M. Babic, P. Ercius, V. R. Radmilovic, L. M. Vracar, N. V. Krstajic, Appl. Catal. B 2012, 125, 390–397.
- [8] Z. Wang, J. Ang, J. Liu, X. Y. D. Ma, J. Kong, Y. Zhang, T. Yan, X. Lu, Appl. Catal. B 2020, 263, 118344.
- [9] a) J. Zhang, H. Yang, J. Fang, S. Zou, Nano Lett. 2010, 10, 638–644; b) W. Wang, B. Lei, S. Guo, Adv. Energy Mater. 2016, 6, 1600236; c) E, Lee, C. Park, D. W. Lee, G. Lee, H.-Y. Park, J. H. Jang, H.-J. Kim, Y.-E. Sung, Y. Tak, S. J. Yoo, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 12080–12090; d) C. Park, E. Lee, G. Lee, Y. Tak, Appl. Catal. B 2020, 268, 118414.
- [10] a) Y. Wang, J. Li, Z. Wei, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 8194–8209; b) P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, D. Gonzalez-Flores, N. R. Sahraie, I. Zaharieva, M. Schwarze, P. Strasser, H. Dau, M. Driess, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 2017–2027; c) M. E. Kreider, A. Gallo, S. Back, Y. Liu, S. Siahrostami, D. Nordlund, R. Sinclair, J. K. Nørskov, L. A. King, T. F. Jaramillo, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 26863–26871; d) M. A. Abdelkareem, T. Wilberforce, K. Elsaid, E. T. Sayed, E. A. M. Abdelghani, A. G. Olabi, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2021, 46, 23529–23547; e) C. Murugesan, S. Lochab, B. Senthilkumar, P. Barpanda, ChemCatChem 2018, 10, 1122–1127; f) M.-R. Gao, J. Jiang, S.-H. Yu, Small 2012, 8, 13–27; g) C. Zhu, Q. Shi, B. Z. Xu, S. Fu, G. Wan, C. Yang, S. Yao, J. Song, H. Zhou, D. Du, S. P. Beckman, D. Su, Y. Lin, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1801956.
- [11] Q. Liu, S. Cao, Y. Fu, Y. Guo, Y. Qiu, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2018**, *813*, 52–57.
- [12] K. Yokoyama, S. Yokoyama, Y. Sato, K. Hirano, S. Hashiguchi, K. Motomiya, H. Ohta, H. Takahashi, K. Tohjia, Y. Sato, J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 9184–9195.
- [13] R. Ma, G. Lin, Y. Zho, Q. Liu, T. Zhang, G. Shan, M. Yang, J. Wang, Npj Comput. Mater. 2019, 5, 1–15.
- [14] M. E. M. Buan, N. Muthuswamy, J. C. Walmsley, D. Chen, M. Rønning, Carbon 2016, 101, 191–202.
- [15] a) T. Zhang, J. Wu, Z. Wang, Z. Wei, J. Liu, X. Gong, Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 433, 133591; b) F. Lou, M. E. M. Buan, N. Muthuswamy, J. C. Walmsley, M. Rønning, D. Chen, J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 1233–1243.
- [16] a) J. Zhang, Z. Xia, L. Dai, Sci. Adv. 2015, 1, 1500564–1500564; b) G. Li, Y. Tang, T. Fu, Y. Xiang, Z. Xiong, Y. Si, C. Guo, Z. Jiang, Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 429, 132174.
- [17] a) L. Cui, M. Chen, G. Huo, X.-Z. Fua, J.-L. Luo, Chem. Eng. J. 2020, 395, 125158; b) S.-Y. Lin, L.-X. Xi, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, Y. Zhao, A.-J. Wang, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 424, 130559; c) R. Mercado, C. Wahl, J. E. Lu, T. Zhang, B. Lu, P. Zhang, J. Q. Lu, A. Allen, J. Z. Zhang, S. Chen, ChemCatChem 2020, 12, 3230–323; d) H. Zeng, W. Wang, J. Li, J. Luo, S. Chen, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 8721–8729; e) Q. H. Nguyen, K. Im, J. Kim, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47, 24169–24178; f) M. A. Kazakova, A. Koul, G. V. Golubtsov, A. G. Selyutin, A. V. Ishchenko, R. I. Kvon, B. A. Kolesov, W. Schuhmann, D. M. Morales, ChemElectroChem 2021, 8, 2803–2816; g) D. Zhao, L. Li, L. Xie, N. Zhou, S. Chen, J. Alloys Compd. 2018, 741, 368–376; h) Q. Liu, S. Cao, Y. Qiu, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2017, 42, 29274–29282.
- [18] Y. Sato, D. Kowalski, Y. Aoki, H. Habazaki, Appl. Catal. A 2020, 597, 117555.
- [19] S. Verma, S. S. Ray, S. S. Ray, *Polymer* **2020**, *12*, 238.
- [20] X. Zhou, B. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Guo, G. Wei, Mater Adv 2020, 1, 2163-2181.
- [21] Q. Niu, B. Chen, J. Guo, J. Nie, X. Guo, G. Ma, Nano-Micro Lett. 2019, 11, 8.
- [22] a) R. Awad, A. H. Mamaghani, Y. Boluk, Z. Hashisho, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 410, 128412; b) M. A. Abdelkareem, D. Takino, T. Ishikawa, T. Tsujiguchi, N. Nakagawa, Key Eng. Mater. 2012, 497, 73–79.
- [23] M. Kim, D.-H. Nam, H.-Y. Park, C. Kwon, K. Eom, S. Yoo, J. Jang, H.-J. Kim, E. Cho, H. Kwon, J. Mater. Chem. A. 2015, 3, 14284–14290.
- [24] A. P. Tiwari, S.-H. Chae, G. P. Ojh, B. Dahal, T. Mukhiya, M. Lee, K. Chhetri, T. Kim, H.-Y. Kim, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2019, 553, 622–630.

- [25] a) Q. Ma, H. Jin, J. Zhu, Z. Li, H. Xu, B. Liu, Z. Zhang, J. Ma, S. Mu, Adv. Sci. 2021, 8, 2102209; b) Q. Cheng, K. Mao, L. Ma, L. Yang, L. Zou, Z. Zou, Z. Hu, H. Yang, ACS Energy Lett. 2018, 3, 1205–1211; c) B. Jeong, D. Shin, M. Choun, S. Maurya, J. Baik, B. S. Mun, S.-H. Moon, D. Su, J. Lee, J. Phys. Chem. C. 2016, 120, 7705–7714.
- [26] Y.-G. Lee, H.-J. Ahn, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2019, 487, 389–397.
- [27] J. Du, F. Cheng, S. Wang, T. Zhang, J. Chen, Sci. Rep. 2014, 4, 4386.
- [28] P. Rao, P. Cui, Z. Wei, M. Wang, J. Ma, Y. Wang, X. Zhao, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 29708–29717.
- [29] S.-H. Liu, J.-R. Wu, C.-J. Pan, B.-J. Hwang, J. Power Sources 2014, 250, 279–285.
- [30] Q. Guo, D. Zhao, S. Liu, S. Chen, M. Hanif, H. Hou, *Electrochim. Acta* 2014, 138, 318–324.
- [31] X. Yu, H. S. Park, J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2016, 34, 61–65.
- [32] a) C. Zhang, H. Yang, D. Zhong, Y. Xu, Y. Wang, Q. Yuan, Z. Liang, B. Wang, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, T. Cheng, R. Cao, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 9536–9544; b) Z. Wang, C. Liu, G. Shi, G. Wang, H. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Jiang, X. Li, F. Luo, Y. Hu, K. Yi, Ionics 2020, 26, 3051–3060; c) L. Li, P. Ma, S. Hussain, L. Jia, D. Lin, X. Yin, Y. Lin, Z. Cheng, L. Wang, Sustain. Energy Fuels 2019, 3, 1749–1756.
- [33] a) S. Zhao, J. Yang, M. Han, X. Wang, Y. Lin, R. Yang, D. Xua, N. Shid, Qi. Wang, M. Yang, Z. Dai, J. Bao, Appl. Catal. B 2020, 260, 118207; b) Q. Yang, Y. Jia, F. Wei, L. Zhuang, D. Yang, J. Liu, X. Wang, S. Lin, P. Yuan, X. Yao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 6122–6127; Angew. Chem. 2020, 132, 6178–6183.
- [34] a) H. Tang, J. Luo, J. Yu, W. Zhao, H. Song, S. Liao, ChemElectroChem 2018, 5, 2041–2049; b) L.-H. Xu, K.-K. Lu, J. Li, D. Shan, ChemCatChem 2020, 12, 3082–3087.
- [35] J. Ding, S. Ji, H. Wang, B. G. Pollet, R. Wang, ChemCatChem 2019, 11, 1026–1032.
- [36] a) J. Liu, Z. Luo, X. Zhang, H. Zheng, L. Peng, D. Qian, C. Jia, D. S. Waterhouse, G. I. N. Waterhouse, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 27701–27708; b) D. Lin, C. Hu, H. Chen, J. Qu, L. Dai, Chem. Eur. J. 2018, 24, 18487–18493.
- [37] D. Ruan, K. Zou, K. Du, F. Wang, L. Wu, Z. Zhang, X. Wu, G. Hu, ChemCatChem 2021, 13, 2025–2033.
- [38] S. Wang, Y. Liu, X. Liu, Y. Chen, Y. Zhao, S. Gao, ChemistrySelect 2022, 7, e202200044.
- [39] a) M. E. M. Buan, A. Cognigni, J. C. Walmsley, N. Muthuswamy, M. Rønning, Catal. Today 2020, 357, 248–258; b) K. M. Villemson, K. Kaare, R. Raudsepp, T. Kaämbre, K. Smits, P. Wang, A. V. Kuzmin, A. Šutka, B. A. Shainyan, I. Kruusenberg, J. Phys. Chem. C 2019, 123, 16065–16074.
- [40] Q.-L. Zhua, P. Pachfule, P. Strubel, Z. Li, R. Zou, Z. Liu, S. Kaskel, Q. Xu, Energy Storage Mater. 2018, 13, 72–79.
- [41] a) L. Zheng, Y. Zhao, H. Zhang, W. Xia, J. Tang, ChemSusChem 2022, 15, e202102642; b) B. Zhou, F. Yan, X. Li, J. Zhou, W. Zhang, ChemSusChem 2019, 12, 915–923.
- [42] a) L. Li, J. Chen, S. Wang, Y. Huang, D. Cao, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2022, 582, 152375; b) M. Song, Y. Song, W. Sha, B. Xu, J. Guo, Y. Wu, Catalysts 2020, 10, 141; c) J.-C. Li, S. Maurya, Y. S. Kim, T. Li, L. Wang, Q. Shi, D. Liu, S. Feng, Y. Lin, M. Shao, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 2452–2458; d) R. Palani, V. Anitha, C. Karuppiah, S. Rajalakshmi, Y.-J. Li, T.-F. Hung, C.-C. Yang, ACS Omega 2021, 6, 16029–16042; e) S. Jha, N. Bhandary, S. Basu, P. P. Ingole, ACS Appl. Energ. Mater. 2019, 2, 6269–6279.
- [43] a) L. Yang, S. Feng, G. Xu, B. Wei, L. Zhang, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2019, 7, 5462–5475; b) B. Li, S. P. Sasikala, D. H. Kim, J. Bak, I.-D. Kim, E. Cho, S. O. Kim, Nano Energy 2019, 56, 524–530; c) J. Guo, Q. Niu, Y. Yuan, I. Maitlo, J. Nie, G. Ma, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2017, 416, 118–123; d) Q. Shi, Q. Liu, Y. Ma, Z. Fang, Z. Liang, G. Shao, B. Tang, W. Yang, L. Qin, X. Fang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 10, 1903854.
- [44] A. Elangovan, J. Xu, E. Brown, B. Liu, J. Li, J. Electrochem. Soc. **2020**, 167, 066523.

Manuscript received: August 10, 2022 Revised manuscript received: October 7, 2022 Accepted manuscript online: October 28, 2022 Version of record online: November 18, 2022