---
source: Song 等 - 2019 - Self‐Supported ZIF‐Derived Co3 O4 Nanoparticles‐Decorated Porous N‐Doped Carbo.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.437s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:12:05.218407Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/chem.201900197 Full Paper

# & Electrocatalysis

# Self-Supported ZIF-Derived Co3O4 Nanoparticles-Decorated Porous N-Doped Carbon Fibers as Oxygen Reduction Catalyst

Li Song,[a] Jing Tang,\*[b, c] Tao Wang,[a] Chao Wu,[a] Yusuke Ide,[b] Jianping He,\*[a] and [Yusuke Yamauchi\\*](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-7854-927X)[c, d]

Abstract: Oxygen reduction is a significant cathodic reaction in the state-of-art clean energy devices such as fuel cell and metal–oxygen battery. Here, ZIF-incorporated hybrid polymeric fibres have been fabricated by using a dual-phase electrospinning method. These are then transformed into Co3O4-nanoparticle-decorated porous N-doped carbon fibres (ZIF-Co3O4/NCF) through multi-step annealing treatment. The resultant ZIF-Co3O4/NCF is interweaved into a self-supported film and can be used as a bi-functional catalyst for catalysing oxygen reduction in both aqueous and non-aqueous electrolytes. Electrochemical tests demonstrate that ZIF-Co3O4/NCF displays a high catalytic activity for oxygen re-

duction with a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.813 V (vs. RHE) and an almost favourable four-electron reduction pathway in alkaline medium. ZIF-Co3O4/NCF catalyst only shows 4 mV negative shift of E1/2 after 5000 continuous CV cycles. In addition, the ZIF-Co3O4/NCF can be applied as the cathode catalyst of non-aqueous Li–O2 battery, exhibiting a remarkable ORR activity in LiPF6 contained 1,2-dimethoxyethane electrolyte. The excellent electrocatalytic performance of ZIF-Co3O4/ NCF is probably due to the abundance of active sites of graphitic carbon-wrapped Co3O4 nanoparticles, as well as the cross-linked fibrous nitrogen-doped carbon texture.

# Introduction

The increasingly serious energy crisis and environmental pollution have stimulated a mass of research efforts in exploring alternative clean energy storage and conversion system such as metal–air batteries and fuel cells.[1, 2] The performance of metal–air battery is greatly affected by the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in the air electrode, which is corresponding to the discharge process.[3] In addition, fuel cells suffer from the

[a] L. Song, Dr. T. Wang, C. Wu, Prof. J. He College of Materials Science and Technology Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Materials and Technology for Energy Conversion Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics 29 Yudao Street, Nanjing, 210016 (P. R. China) E-mail: jianph@nuaa.edu.cn

[b] Dr. J. Tang, Dr. Y. Ide International Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics (MANA) National Institute for Materials Science (NIMS) 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044 (Japan) E-mail: Tang.Jing@nims.go.jp

[c] Dr. J. Tang, Prof. Y. Yamauchi School of Chemical Engineering and Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (AIBN) The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072 (Australia) E-mail: y.yamauchi@uq.edu.au

[d] Prof. Y. Yamauchi Department of Plant & Environmental New Resources Kyung Hee University, 1732 Deogyeong-daero, Giheung-gu Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do 446-701 (South Korea)

Supporting information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under: [https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201900197.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201900197)

sluggish kinetics of the ORR in the cathode. In order to achieve a high activity, a large amount of Pt-based catalyst has been used to accelerate the significant and performance-determining process of ORR.[4, 5] However, the high scarcity, prohibitive cost and poor stability of the Pt-based catalysts greatly impede their widespread applications.[6, 7] In response, lots of researches have been devoted to designing and synthesizing low-cost and high-efficient non-precious metal catalytic materials, including transition metal oxides,[8] transition-metal/carbon composites,[9] and metal-free carbon materials.[10, 11] Despite great progresses have been achieved, few catalysts can achieve a high catalytic activity for ORR in both aqueous electrolyte and aprotic electrolyte. Transition-metal oxides are considered as efficient air cathode materials for the aprotic lithium–oxygen batteries.[12, 13] But they are not a good choice for the ORR in aqueous electrolyte due to the poor conductivity and insufficient activity.[1] Carbon-based materials have been found to have excellent ORR activity in aqueous electrolytes,[11, 14] whereas they are hardly used in non-aqueous electrolytes due to the large polarization and poor catalytic activity.[15] Within this context, integrating carbon materials with transition metal oxides will hold a great promise for producing a high efficient hybrid catalyst for ORR in both aqueous and non-aqueous electrolyte. The hybrid catalyst will possess the both merits of metal oxides and carbon materials with good electrochemical activity and excellent electrical conductivity.[1, 16, 17]

Air cathode structure is a vital issue to assemble a well-operated metal–air battery. A traditional metal–air battery cathode is composed of catalyst, polymeric binders and conductive additives.[17–19] The pyknotic structure, inevitable agglomeration

Chem. Eur. J. 2019, 25, 1–8 1 -

of the polymeric binders and conductive additives are detrimental to reactants transportation and products storage, thus resulting in low activity, enlarged interface resistance and increased discharge/ charge polarization.[20–23] In addition, the polymer binder causes some adverse side reactions, which will induce the decay of capacity.[24] Therefore, fabricating a self-supported conductive substrate consisting of abundant catalytic active species has become a promising strategy for constructing a binder-free air cathode to avoid the binder-induced disadvantages.[25] For example, Li et. al fabricated Co3O4-nanoparticle-decorated carbon fibers for high per-

formance rechargeable zinc–air batteries, using a method of electrospinning metal—ion-containing polymer and the following annealing process.[16]

Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), constructed through bridging metal atoms with organic ligands, are considered to be a fascinating precursor for the synthesis of various electrocatalysts.[26–32] Wu et al. constructed single iron atoms dispersed Fe-N-C catalysts by annealing treatment of Fe-doped ZIF-8, which exhibited superior ORR activity.[33] If serving as the catalyst of metal–air battery, integrating the ZIF in a self-supported conductive substrate will be more helpful to obtain good battery performance. Recently, Guan et al. has prepared hollow Co3O4 nanospheres embedded in 2D N-doped carbon arrays derived from a nano-wall-like Co-ZIF precursor. The resulted carbon arrays growing on a carbon cloth could serve as a selfsupported air cathode, demonstrating outstanding bifunctional activity toward zinc–air batteries.[34]

Here, we develop a dual-phase electrospinning approach to synthesize ZIF-incorporated polymeric fibers through dispersing the nano-sized ZIF polyhedra into the polymeric solution. After a multi-step pyrolysis process, porous N-doped carbon fibers decorated with ZIF-derived Co3O4 nanoparticles (ZIF-Co3O4/NCF) are obtained, which are interweaved to form a self-supported film. ZIF-derived graphitic carbon-encapsulated Co3O4 nanoparticles act as the catalytic active sites for ORR in

Figure 1. Schematic illustration of synthetic procedures for ZIF-Co3O4/NCF.

both aqueous and non-aqueous electrolyte, and the conductive porous N-doped carbon fibres provide the ideal pathways for transporting the reactants and products. As a result, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF can be not only used as an active ORR catalyst in aqueous electrolyte but also applied as a high-performance cathode catalyst for non-aqueous Li–O2 battery.

## Results and Discussion

The fabrication of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF is on the base of dual-phase electrospinning method as illustrated in Figure 1. Nano-sized ZIF-Co-Zn was first synthesized at the assistance of surfactant PVP (K30). The obtained ZIF-Co-Zn has diameters of around 30 nm, which are displayed in Figure S1 a,b (Supporting Information). After electrospinning of the PVP and PAN precursor containing ZIF-Co-Zn in DMF, the ZIF-incorporated hybrid polymeric fibers were prepared. The digital images of the electrospinning precursors, polymeric films and the derived carbon fibre films are displayed in Figure S2. The ZIF-incorporated hybrid polymeric fibers were tested by FT-IR analysis to confirm the characteristic groups. As displayed in Figure S3, characteristic absorption bands for PAN (2244 and 1442 cm-1 ) and PVP (1660 and 1288 cm-1 ) are clearly exhibited.[17]

A pre-heating process was conducted to stabilize the structure of the polymeric fibers. TEM and SEM images in Figure 2

Figure 2. TEM and SEM images on different annealing stages. (a, d) ZIF-incorporated hybrid polymeric fibres obtained after 240 8C in air atmosphere, (b, e) ZIF-Co/NCF obtained after 9008C carbonization in Ar, and (c,f) ZIF-Co3O4/NCF obtained after 300 8C oxidation in air atmosphere.

reveal the evolution process of the fibers film during different annealing steps. Figure 2 a indicates that the ZIF-Co-Zn polyhedra are incorporated in the polymeric fibers and Figure 2 d shows the three-dimensional interweaved fibres texture. After carbonization at 9008C under Ar protection, ZIF-Co-Zn polyhedra were transferred into metallic Co nanoparticles and graphitized carbon, and PAN/PVP was transformed into Ndoped carbon fibres. The TEM (Figure 2 b) and SEM (Figure 2 e) images of Co-decorated carbon fibres (ZIF-Co/NCF) display a closed morphology with smooth surface, which is not in favour of catalysis. After 3008C oxidation in air atmosphere, ZIF-Co/NCF was oxidized into ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. ZIF-Co3O4/NCF shows rough surface, obvious voids and porous morphology in Figure 2 c,f. This is because the outer amorphous carbon with low-degree of graphitization derived from the PAN and PVP has poorer thermal stability compared with the graphitized carbon derived from ZIF-Co-Zn.[35, 36] Most of the outer amorphous carbon in the fibres would be burned out during the oxidation process in an air atmosphere. The residual amorphous carbons help to maintain the continuous fibrous texture. This rough and porous structure is helpful for exposing the inner active Co3O4 to the outer electrolyte and reactants in the electrochemical reaction process.

The XRD pattern of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF shown in Figure 3 a exhibits a remarkable diffraction peak located at around 268, which can be indexed to the (002) diffraction of graphitic carbon. The diffraction peaks at 31.28, 36.88, 44.38, 59.38, and 65.18 are corresponded to the (220), (311), (400), (511) and (440) planes of cubic Co3O4 phase (PDF#43-1003), respectively.[37] The Raman spectra in Figure 3 b show the typical D-band peak at around 1320 cm-<sup>1</sup> and G-band at 1585 cm-1 , which are ascribed to defects or sp<sup>3</sup> -C and the characteristic graphitic structure, respectively.[38] In addition, two small peaks at 465 and 672 cm-<sup>1</sup> are also exhibited, which corresponds to the E<sup>g</sup> and A<sup>g</sup> <sup>1</sup> modes of crystalline Co3O4. [39, 40]

We further conducted the XPS spectra to investigate the elements state in ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. The survey scan spectra of ZIF-

Figure 3. Physicochemical characterization of the related samples. (a) XRD pattern, (b) Raman spectra, (c) XPS Co 2p and (d) N 1 s spectra of the ZIF-Co3O4/NCF.

Co/NCF and ZIF-Co3O4/NCF unambiguously show the presence of C, N, O, and Co (Figure S4). As summarized in Table S1, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF has higher contents of Co and O but lower content of N and C, compared with ZIF-Co/NCF. Due to the N-containing PAN and PVP precursor, N was remained in ZIF-Co/NCF after carbonization under inert atmospheres. After the oxidation of ZIF-Co/NCF in air, some amorphous carbon was burnt away, as well as the doped nitrogen. Thus, the content of C and N was decreased, and the content of Co and O was relatively increased. As exhibited in the high-resolution Co 2p spectrum of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF (Figure 3 c), two major peaks at around 780.2 eV and 795.9 eV, each associating with a low-intensity shake-up satellite peak (noted as "S" in Figure 3 c), corresponded to Co2p3/2 and Co2p1/2 orbits, which are the characteristic peaks of Co3O4. [41–44] The high-resolution N1s spectrum (Figure 3 d) can be deconvoluted into three different types of nitrogen species, including pyridinic N, pyrrolic N and graphitic N, which are located at 398.6, 400.1 and 401.8 eV, respectively.[45, 46] These results indicate that the electrospinning polymeric fibers have been converted into N-doped carbon fibers, and Co3O4 were introduced into carbon fibers after oxidation in air.

TGA/DSC analysis was conducted to make clear the constituent of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. Figure S5 shows that there is a 3 wt% mass loss during the first 10 min due to the residual water in the sample. After the first 10 min, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF suffers from very limited mass loss up to 2908C and then starts to decompose until 3508C. During the step from 290–350 8C, ZIF-Co3O4/ NCF decomposes rapidly accompanied by an exothermic peak, which is due to the burnout of the residual amorphous carbon. After 3508C, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF displays a slow mass loss up to 550 8C due to decomposition of the graphitic carbon. The residual mass at 8008C is as high as 72 wt%, consisting of the incombustible Co3O4.

N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms were tested for analysing the specific surface area and pore size distribution of ZIF-Co/NCF and ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. ZIF-Co3O4/NCF has a higher specific surface area of 614.8 m2g-<sup>1</sup> than that of ZIF-Co/NCF (567.4 m2g-1 ). As shown in Figure S6 a, both of ZIF-Co/NCF and ZIF-Co3O4/NCF has characteristic adsorption for micropores and mesopores. The corresponding pore size distribution curves are shown in Figure S6 b. ZIF-Co/NCF displays a little narrower distribution of mesopores that centred at 5 nm, and ZIF-Co3O4/NCF shows the existence of large mesopores with the size extended to 40 nm. The increased specific surface area and pore size can be ascribed the process of 3008C oxidation of ZIF-Co/NCF in air, leading to the formation of abundant mesopores with broader pore-size distributions in the resulted ZIF-Co3O4/NCF fibers.

To study the morphology features and inner structure, high resolution TEM images of ZIF-Co/NCF and ZIF-Co3O4/NCF were observed. As shown in the images of ZIF-Co/NCF in Figure S7, the surface of carbon fibers is smooth. The nanoparticles in the dark region show lattice fringes with a distance of 0.178 nm, corresponding to (200) diffraction plane of metallic cobalt. The EDX spectrum and SEAD image also indicate the formation of metallic cobalt. As shown in Figure S7 d, crystalline graphitic shell is observed formed around the nanoparti-

cles, due to the catalytic graphitization effect of metallic cobalt.[47–49] After oxidation at 3008C in air atmosphere, the metallic cobalt would be converted into Co3O4 nanoparticles. Meanwhile the graphitic carbon remains while most of the amorphous carbon is removed, which is the reason why ZIF-Co3O4/NCF becomes rough and porous. The images of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF in Figure 4 a demonstrate that there are many holes in the fibers caused by the vacancy of amorphous carbon.

Figure 4. (a) TEM of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF, (b, c, e, f) HR-TEM of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF, (d) SAED patterns of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF in the circled area of (a), and (g) HAADF-STEM and elemental mapping images of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF.

Co3O4 nanoparticles are wrapped by the graphitic carbon like a ring or tube. As shown in Figure 4 b, c, Co3O4 nanoparticles exhibit clear lattice of (400) and (220) facets, with an interlayer spacing of 0.204 and 0.286 nm, respectively. Figure 4 d exhibits the typical polycrystalline diffraction ring of Co3O4. These results correspond well with the XRD patterns (PDF#43–1003). As shown in Figures 4 e,f, crystalline graphitic shell is also developed around the nanoparticles. The good dispersity of the active sites on the carbon fibres was revealed by EDX elemental mapping analysis accompanied by the high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image. As shown in Figure 4 g, cobalt, oxide and nitrogen are uniformly dispersed over the whole carbon fibers.

The catalytic performances of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF, NCF, ZIF-NCF and ZIF-Co-NCF to ORR were first assessed by LSV curves collected by a rotating disk electrode (RDE) technique in 0.1m KOH aqueous solution. For comparison, ZIF-8 (Figure S1 c, d) was applied to the same system to fabricate ZIF-NCF. Without adding ZIF nanoparticles, NCF was also prepared for comparison. The details are given in the experimental section. As shown in Figure 5 a, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF exhibits the best performance among these carbon fibre materials, with a half-

Figure 5. Electrochemical tests of different catalysts. (a) LSV curves of ORR for different samples at the rotating rate of 1600 rpm, (b) LSV curves of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF for ORR at various rotating rate, (c) the Koutecky–Levich plots at various potentials derived from (b), (d) RRDE curves of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF and Pt/C, (e) the corresponding peroxide yield and electron transfer number derived from (d), and (f) polarization curves at 1600 rpm before and after 5000 cycles potential scanning. The electrolyte is 0.1m KOH aqueous solution.

wave potential (E1/2) of 0.813 V, which is close to that of commercial Pt/C (0.83 V). Different carbonization temperatures on the precursors were carried out to investigate the effect of calcination temperature on the final catalytic performance. When the annealing temperature was 9008C, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF showed the best performance for ORR (Figure S8). This temperature (900 8C) has been often utilized for the annealing in previously reported ZIF-derived Co-N-C material.[50, 51] ZIF-Co3O4/NCF exhibits better or similar ORR activity compared to most of the previously reported Co3O4-based materials, judged from the half-wave potential and Tafel slope, as demonstrated in Table S2. The NCF, ZIF-NCF and ZIF-Co-NCF have poor ORR activity with the E1/2 of 0.544, 0.667, 0.571 V, respectively, indicating that the Co3O4 particles in the N-doped carbon fibers are the main active sites. In combination with the results of the physical characterization, the higher activity of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF is also due to the rougher and open porous structure, exposing the active Co3O4 active sites to reactants and electrolyte.

We tested the EIS spectra at the open circuit potentials to reveal the charge transport capability of different catalysts. As demonstrated in the Nyquist plots of Figure S9, the charge transfer resistance of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF is smaller than that of ZIF-Co/NCF and close to that of Pt/C judging from the low-frequency region. This is because the high content of graphitized carbon in ZIF-Co3O4/NCF that is in favour of electron transfer. In order to comprehensively explore the kinetic parameters of

ZIF-Co3O4/NCF, we recorded the RDE polarization curves at a series of rotation speeds from 400 to 2025 rpm (Figure 5 b). Generally, a complete reduction of oxygen to water follows a four-electron process without formation of the intermediate hydrogen peroxide.[52, 53] The transferred electron number (n) of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF was calculated on the base of the Koutecky– Leviche (K–L) plots (Figure 5 c) derived from Figure 5 b. As shown in the K–L plots, a good linear relationship between J -1 and w-1/2 is clearly observed and a nice consistency of the fitting lines among various potentials is obtained, indicating similar values of n at different potentials. The values of n for ZIF-Co3O4/NCF at different potentials are listed in Table S3. The average value of n at various potentials is calculated to be 3.70. We also performed RRDE measurement to further verify the transferred electron number (Figure 5 d). It is revealed in Figure 5 e that the H2O2 yield for ZIF-Co3O4/NCF is almost less than 10% over the whole scanning range. The value of n is above 3.85 from 0.8 to 0.6 V and gradually decreases to 3.8 at more negative potentials. These results are close to that of commercial Pt/C and consistent with the results of K–L equation calculations.

Afterwards, a long-term stability test was carried out to evaluate the durability of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. Figure 5 f shows a little decrease of limited current density, which may be ascribed to the fall-off of the catalyst from the electrode during the longterm test. There is only 4 mV negative shift of E1/2 for the polarization curve after 5000 potential cycles, which indicates a superior electrochemical stability of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. In addition, we tested the 10 h chronoamperometric response of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF and Pt/C at 0.6 V. As can be seen in Figure S10, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF keeps 88.3 % retention of the original current after 10 h, higher than that of Pt/C. The high activity and excellent durability can be attributed to the merits of the ZIF-Co3O4/NCF structure, in which the active Co3O4 sites are protected by the wrapped graphitic carbon derived from ZIF-Co-Zn, thus not only promoting the electron transfer to the surface but also preventing erosion and aggregation of active species.[49, 54]

Recently, Co3O4 has been extensively studied and applied as the cathode catalyst in Li-O2 battery due to its excellent catalytic activity in non-aqueous electrolyte.[23, 35, 55] As can be known from the above-mentioned results of TGA/DSC, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF has a high content of Co3O4. Therefore, in this work, the combination of Co3O4 and N-doped carbon fibre enable the composite catalyst to work in both aqueous and non-aqueous solution. The ORR activity of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF in non-aqueous electrolyte was confirmed by performing steadystate staircase voltammetry measurement in O2-saturated 0.1m LiPF6 in 1,2-dimethoxyethane. As shown in Figure S11, no plateau can be achieved at the low potential range for the both catalysts, which is different from the polarizations in the aqueous electrolyte. This can be ascribed to the formation of insoluble oxygen reduction product lithium-oxygen compounds, which cover on the catalyst surface and cause activity degradation.[56] So, no plateau but a broad peak will appear when ORR happens in the organic electrolyte. A distinct peak is observed at the low potential range for ZIF-Co3O4/NCF, demonstrating an excellent ORR activity for the formation of lithium–oxygen compounds. In the case of the thermally treated ZIF-free electrospinning carbon fibre (NCF), there is no obvious ORR peak, which is ascribed to the lack of active Co3O4. In addition, the interweaved texture not only favours the fast electron transfer but also provides access to oxygen diffusion and product storage. Therefore, the self-supported ZIF-Co3O4/NCF film can be applied as a promising air cathode in a Li–O2 battery.

## Conclusions

ZIF-Co3O4/NCF film was fabricated with a method of dualphase electrospinning and a multi-step annealing process. The difference of thermal stability between the polymer-derived amorphous carbon and ZIF-derived graphitic carbon contributes to fabricate a continuous but surface-rough, porous fibre structure. The obtained ZIF-Co3O4/NCF catalyst exhibited an excellent ORR activity and almost favourable 4-electron pathway, as well as a superior stability in alkaline electrolyte, which is due to the highly active Co3O4 sites wrapped in the stable graphitic carbon. In addition, ZIF-Co3O4/NCF catalyst shows a remarkable ORR property in an aprotic electrolyte. Due to the structural merits and efficient electrocatalytic properties, this strategy has great promise for the development of non-precious metal electrocatalysts of fuel cells and metal–air batteries.

# Experimental Section

#### Fabrication of nano-sized ZIF

Typically, 252.8 mg Co(NO3)2·6H2O, 258 mg Zn(NO3)2·6H2O (with a molar ratio of 1:1) and 1.2 g PVP (polyvinyl pyrrolidone, K30) were dissolved in 80 mL methanol to form solution A. 525.6 mg 2-methylimidazole was dissolved in 80 mL methanol to form solution B. Then, solution B was quickly poured into solution A under vigorously stirring for 10 min. After keeping the mixed solution at ambient temperature for 2 h, the lavender-coloured mixture was collected by centrifugation at 12 000 rpm and washed with methanol three times to obtain the ZIF-Co-Zn nanoparticles. Double dose of the as-prepared ZIF-Co-Zn was dispersed in 5 mL N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) for further use. Similarly, nano-sized ZIF-8 was synthesized through the same procedures, by replacing Co(NO3)2·6H2O and Zn(NO3)2·6H2O with 516 mg Zn(NO3)2·6H2O. According to preliminary tests, more Co would help to get better ORR performance. However, the higher ratio of Co/Zn would lead to the formation of large-sized ZIF precursors, which cannot disperse in polymer fibres during preparation. Under comprehensive consideration of the performance and ZIF size, we choose the Co/ Zn ratio of 1:1.

### Synthesis of Co3O4-nanoparticle-decorated porous N-doped carbon fibres (ZIF-Co3O4/NCF)

At 708C, 0.25 g PVP (K88) and 0.25 g polyacrylonitrile (PAN) were dissolved into the above prepared ZIF-containing DMF solution. This dispersion was stirred for 6 h to form a homogeneous electrospinning precursor. Then, the precursor was put into an injector with a metal nozzle. For conducting the electrospinning process, a high positive voltage of 18 kV was applied between the aluminium foil collector and the nozzle with a fixed distance of 15 cm. The ob-

tained purple polymeric fibre film was dried at 808C for 24 h in a vacuum oven. After drying, the film was stabilized at 2408C in air for 3 h and then annealed in Ar at 900 8C for 2 h with a ramp rate of 48Cmin-<sup>1</sup> to get a nitrogen-doped carbon fibre film decorated with ZIF-derived Co nanoparticles (noted as ZIF-Co/NCF). After heating the ZIF-Co/NCF in air at 3008C for 3 h, nitrogen-doped carbon fibre film decorated with ZIF-derived Co3O4 nanoparticles was produced and labelled as ZIF-Co3O4/NCF. As a control, ZIF-8 was applied to the same system to fabricate ZIF-NCF. Without adding ZIF nanoparticles, blank NCF was also prepared for comparison.

#### Physical characterization

The crystalline phases were analysed by powder X-ray diffraction measurement (XRD, Bruker D8 Advance diffractometer) with a scan rate of 68Cmin-<sup>1</sup> using a Cu Ka irradiation. XPS analysis was carried out by using a Kratos Axis Ultra DLD electron spectrometer to characterize the surface chemical state and all the binding energies were calibrated by C1s peak at 284.6 eV. Thermogravimetric analysis/differential scanning calorimeter (TGA/DSC) was carried out with PerkinElmer TGA/DSC from room temperature to 8008C with a ramp rate of 108Cmin-<sup>1</sup> in air to test the content of Co3O4. SEM observation was performed on a Hitachi S-4800 field-emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM) to reveal the morphology of ZIF precursors and the fibre films. The microstructures of the samples were studied by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM), conducted on the FEI Tecnai G2 F20 transmission electron microscope. The nitrogen adsorption–desorption analysis was conducted at 77 K with a Micromeritics ASAP 2050 system.

#### Electrochemical measurements

Electrochemical analysis was performed with a CHI760E potentiostat by using a traditional three-electrode system. The self-supported ZIF-Co3O4/NCF film was grinded into powders to conduct the electrochemical measurements. The catalyst ink was prepared by dispersing 5 mg catalyst powder into a mixed solution consist of 1 mL ethanol and 50 mL 5% Nafion (Dupont Inc., USA). Non-Pt catalyst loading on the GC electrode was fixed at 0.89 mg cm-<sup>2</sup> and Pt/C catalyst loading is 25 mg Pt cm-2 . A glassy carbon rotating disk electrode (RDE) (diameter: 5 mm, Pine Instruments) coated with the catalyst ink was used as the working electrode, a graphite rod was used as the counter electrode, and a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) was used as the reference electrode. The aqueous electrolyte was 0.1m KOH. The measured potentials reported in this work have been converted to a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale, calculated according to the Nernst equation: ERHE= ESCE+0.059 pH+0.241. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements of the catalysts were performed from 1.2 to 0 V at a scanning rate of 5 mV s-<sup>1</sup> by using a RDE technique (Pine Instruments) in O2-saturated electrolyte. The Koutecky–Levich (K-L) analysis was conducted according to the corresponding kinetic equations to determine the electron transfer number (n) (The details are given in the supporting information). For RRDE tests, the disk electrode was scanned from 1.2 to 0 V at a scanning rate of 5 mV s-<sup>1</sup> and the ring electrode potential was fixed at 1.2 V. The hydrogen peroxide yield [H2O2(%)] and the electron transfer number (n) were calculated from the disk and ring current through the equations described in the supporting information. An accelerated durability test was conducted to determine the long-term stability of ZIF-Co3O4/NCF by scanning at the potential range from 1.0 to 0.6 V at 50 mV s-<sup>1</sup> in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH for 5000 continuous cycles. After that, the ORR polarization curve was collected to evaluate the stability of the catalysts.

The ORR activity in non-aqueous electrolyte was tested by steadystate measurement using staircase voltammetry with a step of 0.05 V at intervals of 30 s with a rotation rate of 900 rpm. In O2-saturated 0.1m LiPF6 solution in 1,2-dimethoxyethane (DME), a catalyst ink covered RDE electrode, a graphite rod, and an Ag/AgCl electrode were used as the working electrode, reference electrode and the counter electrode, respectively.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (11575084 and 51602153), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20160795), Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics PhD Shortterm Visiting Scholar Project, Funding of Jiangsu Innovation Program for Graduate Education (KYCX17\_0250), Funding for Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation in NUAA (BCXJ17-09) and A Project Funded by the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions (PAPD). J.T. was supported by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science International Research Fellows (JSPS project no. 17F17080). This work was also supported by the Australian Research Council (ARC) (FT150100479 and DE190101410). The authors extend their appreciation to QUST for funding this research work. This work was performed in part at the Queensland node of the Australian National Fabrication Facility, a company established under the National Collaborative Research Infrastructure Strategy to provide nano- and micro-fabrication facilities for Australia's researchers.

## Conflict of interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: carbon fibers · cobalt oxides · electrocatalysts · oxygen reduction reaction · zeolitic imidazolate frameworks

- [1] Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, [Nat. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087) [2011](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087), 10[, 780 – 786.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087)
- [2] C.-Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z.-Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. Hou, F.-Q. Bai, H.-X. Zhang, T.- Y. Ma, [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201602420) 2017, 7, 1602420.
- [3] P. G. Bruce, S. A. Freunberger, L. J. Hardwick, J.-M. Tarascon, [Nat. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3191) [2012](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3191), 11[, 19 – 29.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3191)
- [4] X. Huang, Z. Zhao, L. Cao, Y. Chen, E. Zhu, Z. Lin, M. Li, A. Yan, A. Zettl, Y. M. Wang, X. Duan, T. Mueller, Y. Huang, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa8765) 2015, 348[, 1230 –](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa8765) [1234.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaa8765)
- [5] G. Wu, K. L. More, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1200832) 2011, 332, 443 [447.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1200832)
- [6] S.-T. Chang, C.-H. Wang, H.-Y. Du, H.-C. Hsu, C.-M. Kang, C.-C. Chen, J. C. S. Wu, S.-C. Yen, W.-F. Huang, L.-C. Chen, M. C. Lin, K.-H. Chen, [Energy Environ. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C1EE01962G) 2012, 5, 5305 – 5314.
- [7] T. Reier, M. Oezaslan, P. Strasser, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs3003098) 2012, 2[, 1765 1772.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs3003098)
- [8] Y. Gorlin, T. F. Jaramillo, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja104587v) 2010, 132, 13612 13614.
- [9] S. Gupta, L. Qiao, S. Zhao, H. Xu, Y. Lin, S. V. Devaguptapu, X. Wang, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201601198) 2016, 6, 1601198.
- [10] J. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, L. Dai, [Nat. Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2015.48) 2015, 10, 444 452.

2019 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim

- [11] S. Wang, L. Zhang, Z. Xia, A. Roy, D. W. Chang, J.-B. Baek, L. Dai, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201109257) [Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201109257) 2012, 51, 4209 – 4212; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201109257) 2012, 124, 4285 – [4288](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201109257).
- [12] H. Xue, S. Wu, J. Tang, H. Gong, P. He, J. He, H. Zhou, [ACS Appl. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b10856) [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b10856) 2016, 8[, 8427 – 8435](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b10856).
- [13] B. Liu, P. Yan, W. Xu, J. Zheng, Y. He, L. Luo, M. E. Bowden, C.-M. Wang, J.-G. Zhang, [Nano Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b01556) 2016, 16[, 4932 – 4939.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b01556)
- [14] C. Hu, L. Dai, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201604942) 2017, 29, 1604942.
- [15] G. Girishkumar, B. McCloskey, A. C. Luntz, S. Swanson, W. Wilcke, [J. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz1005384) [Chem. Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz1005384) 2010, 1[, 2193 – 2203](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz1005384).
- [16] B. Li, X. Ge, F. W. T. Goh, T. S. A. Hor, D. Geng, G. Du, Z. Liu, J. Zhang, X. Liu, Y. Zong, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4NR05988C) 2015, 7[, 1830 – 1838](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4NR05988C).
- [17] H. Xue, X. Mu, J. Tang, X. Fan, H. Gong, T. Wang, J. He, Y. Yamauchi, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA01712F) [Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA01712F) 2016, 4, 9106 – 9112.
- [18] X. Liu, M. Park, M. G. Kim, S. Gupta, G. Wu, J. Cho, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201503612) 2015, 54[, 9654 – 9658](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201503612); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201503612) 2015, 127, 9790 – 9794.
- [19] M. Zhang, Q. Dai, H. Zheng, M. Chen, L. Dai, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201705431) 2018, 30, [1705431](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201705431).
- [20] J. Wang, H.-x. Zhong, Z.-l. Wang, F.-l. Meng, X.-b. Zhang, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b07126) 2016, 10[, 2342 – 2348.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b07126)
- [21] H. Liang, A. N. Gandi, D. H. Anjum, X. Wang, U. Schwingenschlçgl, H. N. Alshareef, [Nano Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b03803) 2016, 16[, 7718 – 7725](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b03803).
- [22] Z. Guo, X. Dong, Y. Wang, Y. Xia, [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC07315K) 2015, 51, 676 678.
- [23] B. Sun, X. Huang, S. Chen, Y. Zhao, J. Zhang, P. Munroe, G. Wang, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA01888E) [Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA01888E) 2014, 2[, 12053 – 12059.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA01888E)
- [24] A. Riaz, K.-N. Jung, W. Chang, K.-H. Shin, J.-W. Lee, [ACS Appl. Mater. Inter](https://doi.org/10.1021/am504463b)faces 2014, 6[, 17815 – 17822](https://doi.org/10.1021/am504463b).
- [25] J. Jiang, P. He, S. Tong, M. Zheng, Z. Lin, X. Zhang, Y. Shi, H. Zhou, [NPG](https://doi.org/10.1038/am.2015.141) [Asia Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/am.2015.141) 2016, 8, e239.
- [26] A. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rçsler, W. Xia, P. Weide, A. J. R. Botz, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201509382) 2016, 55, 4087 – 4091; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201509382) 2016, 128, 4155 – 4160.
- [27] Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y. Sugahara, Y. Yamauchi, [Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201802442) 2018, 14, [1802442](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201802442).
- [28] Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y.-M. Kang, Y. Bando, Y. Yamauchi, [Nano Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.03.012) 2018, 47[, 494 – 502.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.03.012)
- [29] X. Ma, X. Zhao, J. Huang, L. Sun, Q. Li, X. Yang, [ACS Appl. Mater. Interfa](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b02490)ces 2017, 9[, 21747 – 21755](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b02490).
- [30] H. Qian, J. Tang, Z. Wang, J. Kim, J. H. Kim, S. M. Alshehri, E. Yanmaz, X. Wang, Y. Yamauchi, [Chem. Eur. J.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201604162) 2016, 22[, 18259 – 18264](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201604162).
- [31] Y. V. Kaneti, J. Tang, R. R. Salunkhe, X. Jiang, A. Yu, K. C.-W. Wu, Y. Yamauchi, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201604898) 2017, 29, 1604898.
- [32] Y. V. Kaneti, J. Zhang, Y.-B. He, Z. Wang, S. Tanaka, M. S. A. Hossain, Z.-Z. Pan, B. Xiang, Q.-H. Yang, Y. Yamauchi, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA03939E) 2017, 5, [15356 – 15366](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA03939E).
- [33] H. Zhang, S. Hwang, M. Wang, Z. Feng, S. Karakalos, L. Luo, Z. Qiao, X. Xie, C. Wang, D. Su, Y. Shao, G. Wu, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514) 2017, 139, 14143 – [14149](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514).

- [34] C. Guan, A. Sumboja, H. Wu, W. Ren, X. Liu, H. Zhang, Z. Liu, C. Cheng, S. J. Pennycook, J. Wang, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201704117) 2017, 29, 1704117.
- [35] J. Tang, S. Wu, T. Wang, H. Gong, H. Zhang, S. M. Alshehri, T. Ahamad, H. Zhou, Y. Yamauchi, [ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b11252) 2016, 8, 2796 – 2804.
- [36] J. Tang, R. R. Salunkhe, J. Liu, N. L. Torad, M. Imura, S. Furukawa, Y. Yamauchi, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja511539a) 2015, 137, 1572 – 1580.
- [37] H. Lee, Y.-J. Kim, D. J. Lee, J. Song, Y. M. Lee, H.-T. Kim, J.-K. Park, [J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA01311E) [Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA01311E) 2014, 2, 11891 – 11898.
- [38] Y. Liu, Y. Su, X. Quan, X. Fan, S. Chen, H. Yu, H. Zhao, Y. Zhang, J. Zhao, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b02165) 2018, 8[, 1186 – 1191.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b02165)
- [39] X.-C. Dong, H. Xu, X.-W. Wang, Y.-X. Huang, M. B. Chan-Park, H. Zhang, L.-H. Wang, W. Huang, P. Chen, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn300097q) 2012, 6[, 3206 – 3213](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn300097q).
- [40] G. Wang, X. Shen, J. Horvat, B. Wang, H. Liu, D. Wexler, J. Yao, [J. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp8106149) [Chem. C](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp8106149) 2009, 113[, 4357 – 4361](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp8106149).
- [41] Y. Fan, N. Zhang, L. Zhang, H. Shao, J. Wang, J. Zhang, C. Cao, [J. Electro](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.016303jes)[chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.016303jes) 2013, 160[, F218 – F223.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.016303jes)
- [42] Y. Wang, T. Zhou, K. Jiang, P. Da, Z. Peng, J. Tang, B. Kong, W.-B. Cai, Z. Yang, G. Zheng, [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201400696) 2014, 4, 1400696.
- [43] X. Wang, F. Wang, L. Wang, M. Li, Y. Wang, B. Chen, Y. Zhu, L. Fu, L. Zha, L. Zhang, Y. Wu, W. Huang, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505370) 2016, 28[, 4904 – 4911](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505370).
- [44] G. Huang, F. Zhang, X. Du, Y. Qin, D. Yin, L. Wang, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn506252u) 2015, 9, [1592 – 1599](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn506252u).
- [45] S. M. Unni, S. Devulapally, N. Karjule, S. Kurungot, [J. Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2jm35547g) 2012, 22[, 23506 – 23513](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2jm35547g).
- [46] T. Palaniselvam, M. O. Valappil, R. Illathvalappil, S. Kurungot, [Energy Envi](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ee43648a)[ron. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ee43648a) 2014, 7[, 1059 – 1067](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ee43648a).
- [47] L. Jiang, J. Yan, L. Hao, R. Xue, G. Sun, B. Yi, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2012.12.085) 2013, 56[, 146 154.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2012.12.085)
- [48] F. J. Derbyshire, A. E. B. Presland, D. L. Trimm, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/0008-6223(75)90267-5) 1975, 13[, 111 113.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0008-6223(75)90267-5)
- [49] T. Wang, Z. Kou, S. Mu, J. Liu, D. He, I. S. Amiinu, W. Meng, K. Zhou, Z. Luo, S. Chaemchuen, F. Verpoort, [Adv. Funct. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201705048) 2018, 28, 1705048.
- [50] B. You, N. Jiang, M. Sheng, W. S. Drisdell, J. Yano, Y. Sun, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02325) 2015, 5[, 7068 – 7076.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02325)
- [51] Y.-Z. Chen, C. Wang, Z.-Y. Wu, Y. Xiong, Q. Xu, S.-H. Yu, H.-L. Jiang, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201502315) Mater. 2015, 27[, 5010 – 5016.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201502315)
- [52] Z. K. Yang, L. Lin, A. W. Xu, Small 2016, 12[, 5710 5719.](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201601887)
- [53] J. Masa, W. Xia, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500569) 2015, 54[, 10102 – 10120](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500569); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201500569) 2015, 127[, 10240 – 10259.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201500569)
- [54] G. Zhang, C. Li, J. Liu, L. Zhou, R. Liu, X. Han, H. Huang, H. Hu, Y. Liu, Z. Kang, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/c4ta00677a) 2014, 2, 8184 – 8189.
- [55] J. Wang, R. Gao, D. Zhou, Z. Chen, Z. Wu, G. Schumacher, Z. Hu, X. Liu, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b02313) 2017, 7[, 6533 – 6541.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b02313)
- [56] G. Wu, N. H. Mack, W. Gao, S. Ma, R. Zhong, J. Han, J. K. Baldwin, P. Zelenay, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn303275d) 2012, 6[, 9764 – 9776](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn303275d).

Manuscript received: January 14, 2019

Revised manuscript received: February 20, 2019

Version of record online: && &&, 0000

# FULL PAPER

& Electrocatalysis

L. Song, J. Tang,\* T. Wang, C. Wu, Y. Ide, J. He,\* Y. Yamauchi\*

&& – &&

Self-Supported ZIF-Derived Co3O4 Nanoparticles-Decorated Porous N-Doped Carbon Fibers as Oxygen Reduction Catalyst

ZIF-incorporated hybrid polymeric fibres have been fabricated by using a dual-phase electrospinning method. These are then transformed into Co3O4 nanoparticle-decorated porous N-doped carbon fibres (ZIF-Co3O4/NCF) through multi-step annealing treatment. The resultant ZIF-Co3O4/NCF is interweaved into a self-supported film and can be used as a bi-functional catalyst for catalysing oxygen reduction in both aqueous and non-aqueous electrolytes.