---
source: Sultan 等 - 2018 - Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction Activity of Graphitic Tube Encapsulating Nitrided Co .pdf
tool: marker
duration: 35.159s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:14:30.213976Z
---

# **Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction Activity of Graphitic Tube Encapsulating Nitrided Co***x***Fe***y* **Alloy**

*Siraj Sultan, Jitendra N. Tiwari,\* Jue-Hyuk Jang, Ahmad M. Harzandi, Foad Salehnia, Sung Jong Yoo,\* and Kwang S. Kim\**

**Nonprecious metals are promising catalysts to avoid the sluggish oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in next-generation regenerative fuel cells or metal– air batteries. Therefore, development of nonprecious metal catalysts for ORR is highly desirable. Herein, precise tuning of the atomic ratio of Fe and Co encapsulated in melamine-derived nitrogen-rich graphitic tube (NGT) is reported. The Co1.08Fe3.34 hybrid with metalnitrogen bonds (1: Co1.08Fe3.34@ NGT) shows remarkable ORR catalytic activities (80 mV higher in onset potential and 50 mV higher in half-wave potential than those of state-ofthe-art commercial Pt/C catalysts), high current density, and stability. In acidic solution, 1 also shows compatible performance to commercial Pt/C in terms of ORR activity, current density, stability, and methanol tolerance. The high ORR activity is ascribed to the co-existence of FeN, CoN, and sufficient metallic FeCo alloys which favor faster electron movement and better adsorption of oxygen molecules on the catalyst surface. In the alkaline anion exchange membrane fuel cell setup, this cell delivers the power density of 117 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , demonstrating its potential use for energy conversion and storage applications.**

# **1. Introduction**

Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity and durability of fuel cells have gained continuous attention for possible replacement of platinum by nonprecious metal catalysts (e.g., Fe, Co, Ni, and Mn).[1–4] The proton exchange membrane fuel cells heavily rely on platinum-based catalysts which have precluded their widespread utilization.[5–7] To overcome this obstacle, alkaline anion exchange membrane fuel cells (AAEMFC) were proposed and intensively investigated in the last few years.[8–10] By switching

S. Sultan, Prof. J. N. Tiwari, A. M. Harzandi, F. Salehnia, Prof. K. S. Kim Center for Superfunctional Materials Department of Chemistry Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST) 50 UNIST-gil, Ulsan 44919, Korea E-mail: jitendra@unist.ac.kr; kimks@unist.ac.kr

J.-H. Jang, Prof. S. J. Yoo Fuel Cell Research Center Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 02792, Korea E-mail: ysj@kist.re.kr

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201801002.

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.201801002**

from acidic to alkaline electrolyte, it is possible to use nonprecious metal catalysts for the cathode reaction which requires a large amount of Pt in acid.[11–13] However, the sluggish ORR kinetics at the cathode is considered as a major reason for the decrease in efficiency of the next-generation electrochemical energy-conversion devices. The nonprecious metal–containing N/C catalysts seem to be more suitable due to easy fabrication, high catalytic activity, and high stability in alkaline solution, as well as their competition with the state-of-the-art commercial Pt/C.[14,15] In this regard, several approaches have been made to enhance the ORR efficiency better than the commercial; however, their ORR activity performance in either acid or alkaline electrolytic condition remains a critical issue.[16–18]

More recently, bimetallic-based ORR electrocatalysts have been explored due

to their higher activity and durability than single metal-based catalysts.[19–21] However, the exploration of simple and effective technique for tuning catalysts based on nonprecious metals and the understanding of their fundamental reasons for the ORR catalytic activity remain challenging tasks.

Here, for the first time, we show the remarkably enhanced ORR catalytic activity in basic electrolytes by atomic modulation of Fe and Co inside the nitrogen-rich graphitic tube. Impressively, the optimized catalyst (**1**: Co1.08Fe3.34@NGT, where subscripts 1.08 and 3.34 denote the atomic percentage; see Table S2 in the Supporting Information) exhibits predominant catalytic activity and durability, featuring, excellent onset potential (1.03 V), superb half-wave potential (0.94 V at 3 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ), and small Tafel slope (44 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) for ORR in basic solutions, which significantly surpass those of precious metal benchmark (20 wt% Pt/C) catalyst. In acidic solution, **1** also shows compatible performance to that of Pt/C and remarkable stability and methanol tolerance. During 10 h durability tests, the commercial Pt/C shows loss more than 60% of their current density, while **1** retained the constant current density under similar experimental conditions. The high activity and stability of this catalyst originate from nitriding (i.e., the heating process that diffuses nitrogen onto the metal surface which often creates surface hardening and corrosion resistance) and encapsulation in the graphitic shell, which facilitates the exposure of active sites and electronic transfer/mass transport.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

**1** is obtained by a one-step carbonization process. In a typical synthetic process, the fine homogeneous mixture of melamine (2.2 g), Co(ClO4)2·6H2O (0.45 g), and FeCl3 (0.7 g) is annealed at 750 °C under Ar environment, and then the obtained product is treated with acid and deionized water to leach away unreacted species (**Figure 1**a, see "Experimental Section"). To tune the atomic ratio in Co*x*Fe*y*@NGT, the catalysts with different ratios of Co:Fe are synthesized with the same procedure used in **1** (Table S1, Supporting Information). The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images show that **1** consists of bamboo-like nitrogenrich graphitic tube (NGT) with an encapsulated alloy of CoFe nanoparticles (Figure 1b,c). The NGT shows the outer diameter of ≈60 nm originating from the polymerized carbon nitride after melamine polymerization in the presence of iron and cobalt salts at 750 °C (Figure 1c). The high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) images reveal that the CoFe nanoparticles are further wrapped with outer thin layers (1–4 layers) (Figure 1d,e; Figure S1, Supporting Information). The HR-TEM image in Figure 1e demonstrates that the lattice fringe of this outer layer around the nanoparticles is 0.34 nm, corresponding to the graphitic carbon,[22] whereas the lattice fringe of wrapped nanoparticles is 0.202 nm, corresponding to the (110) plane of the Co3Fe7 alloy. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis of **1** (Figure S2a, Supporting Information) further explicates that the main dominant phase of the nanoparticles is Co3Fe7 with diffraction peaks at 44.73°, 65.10°, and 82.18°, which are attributed to the (110), (200), and (211) facets of Co3Fe7 alloy (JCPDS 00-048-1816). The wide and weak diffraction peak at 26.30° with an interlayer spacing of 0.34 nm is ascribed to the (002) plane of crystalline graphitic carbon (JCPDS 01-075-1621). The TEM–energy-dispersive X-ray (TEM-EDX) shows that the NGT is composed of C and N and encapsulates nanoparticles of Co and Fe alloy (Figure 1g; Figure S3, Supporting Information). The line profiles for a single particle in high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF–STEM) image (Figure 1f) show the stronger signal for Fe than Co with the indication of more Fe atoms, which is consistent with the experimental ratio.

The valence state of each constituent element in **1** is examined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The highresolution XPS spectra of C, N, Co, and Fe in **1** are shown in **Figure 2**. In the core level XPS C 1s spectrum, the main sharp

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration for the synthesis procedure of **1** (Co1.08Fe3.34@NGT) (C: yellow, Fe: red, Co: silver, N: blue). b) SEM image. c) TEM image of NGT with encapsulated FeCo alloy. d) HR-TEM of FeCo alloy inside NGT. e) HR-TEM image showing the presence of Co3Fe7 alloy. f) HAADF– STEM image and the cross-sectional compositional profiles. g) HAADF–STEM images with elemental mapping of C, N, Co, and Fe.

**Figure 2.** X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption analysis of **1** (Co1.08Fe3.34@NGT). The core level XPS spectra for constituent elements: a) C 1s, b) N 1s, c) Co 2p, and d) Fe 2p. e,f) Fourier transform of the EXAFS spectra in *R*-space at Co K and Fe K-edges (AU = arbitrary units).

and strong peak located at 284.5 eV corresponds to the graphitic carbon, while the peak centered at 285.8 eV is assigned to CN and CN bonds originating from g-C3N4 (Figure 2a).[23,24] The core level XPS N 1s spectrum is deconvoluted into three peaks with binding energies of 398.3, 399.6, and 401.1 eV, which is attributed to pyridinic-N, metal–N moiety, and graphitic-N, respectively (Figure 2b).[25,26] The Co 2p spectrum exhibits two pairs of peaks (Figure 2c). The peaks with the binding energies of 779.1 and 793.9 eV are assigned to zero valence Co atom in CoFe alloy,[27] while the peaks centered at 781.6 and 796.4 eV with shakeup satellites (785.2 and 802.7 eV) correspond to CoN species.[27] Similarly, the core level XPS of Fe 2p shows metallic state peaks at binding energies of 707.4 and 720.1 eV and ionic state peaks at binding energies of 710.9 and 724.8 eV with shakeup satellite peaks at 714.4 and 732.5 eV, which are attributed to CoFe alloy nanoparticles and FeN, respectively (Figure 2d).[28,29]

The Fourier transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) analysis of cobalt in **1** (Figure 2e) exhibits the first peak at 1.65 Å, corresponding to CoN bond distance and the second peak at 2.31 Å assigned to the CoCo bond distance, referring to Co foil.[30,31] The next three peaks at 3.11, 3.59, and 4.48 Å are derived from multiple CoCoCo scattering. Similarly, FT-EXAFS spectra of iron in **1** (Figure 2f) exhibit the first peak at 1.45 Å corresponding to FeN bond distance, and the second peak at 2.21 Å is assigned to FeFe bond distance.[25,26]

The Raman spectra of **1** show three peaks at 1353 (D-band), 1586 (G-band), and 2696 cm−<sup>1</sup> (2D band) (Figure S2b, Supporting Information). The D-band relates to sp3 disordered and defect sites, and G-band corresponds to hybridized sp2

graphitic carbon layer, while the 2D band represents the existence of graphene-like sheets. Moreover, the number of defects and disordered sites in the carbon structure which correspond to active catalytic sites in ORR reaction can be estimated from the relative peak intensity ratio of D to G bands (*I*D/*I*G).[32,33] The calculated *I*D/*I*G value of **1** is larger (1.05) than the other synthesized catalysts (Figure S2b, Supporting Information) demonstrating that **1** has more defects in the graphitic shell, which is well consistent with HR-TEM images (Figure S1, Supporting Information).

The specific surface area and pore volume are examined via the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) technique (Figure S4a,b, Supporting Information). **1** exhibits a specific surface area of 235 m2 g−<sup>1</sup> and displays type IV isotherm. In hysteresis loop of isotherm curve, the relative pressure (*P*/*P*0) ranges from 0.45 to 0.99, demonstrating the presence of mesopores.[32] The Barrett–Joyner–Halenda (BJH) pore size distribution curve further confirms the existence of mesoporous structure with a pore diameter centered at 4.8 nm (Figure S4b, Supporting Information). This large specific surface area and mesoporous structure of the catalyst are very useful in the exposure of active catalytic sites and the diffusion of electrolyte during the catalytic reactions.

The electrocatalytic activities for ORR of all as-synthesized catalysts are assessed by rotating disk electrode (RDE) in an oxygen-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution and compared with a 20% commercial Johnson Matthey Pt/C catalyst. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curve of **1** exhibits more positive onset potential of 1.03 V (the potential at which the reaction of ORR starts) and half-wave potential of 0.94 V than other synthesized

**Figure 3.** Electrochemical performance of **1** (Co1.08Fe3.34@NGT) compared with Pt/C. a) Room-temperature RDE (rotating disk electrode) polarization curves in 0.1 m oxygen-saturated KOH solution with a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> after subtraction of background measured in 0.1 m nitrogen-saturated KOH solution. b) RDE of **1** in 0.1 m oxygen-saturated KOH solution with a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> at different rotation rates. c) Tafel plots calculated from RDE polarization curves. d) HO2 <sup>−</sup> % yield for oxygen reduction reaction and the number of transfer electrons (*n*) measured by the RRDE method. e) RDE polarization curves after 5000 CV scans. f) Chronoamperometric response of **1** in oxygen-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution.

catalysts and Pt/C as shown in **Figure 3**a and in Figure S5a–c and Table S5 in the Supporting Information. The limiting current density (≈7.4 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2; Figure 3a) outperforms that of Pt/C (≈5.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2; Figure 3a). Furthermore, the obtained ORR by LSV curve (Figure 3a; Figure S5a–c, Supporting Information) is far superior in all potential regions of kinetic range (>0.9 V), mixed range (0.9–0.8 V), and mass transfer range (<0.8 V) to commercial Pt/C and other synthesized catalysts, representing its superior ORR activity. For the electrochemical reaction, the catalyst having a high current density at a low overpotential should have a smaller Tafel slope value.[26] As shown in Figure 3c, 1 exhibits the Tafel slope of ≈44 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , much smaller than that of commercial Pt/C (≈66 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ), representing it as a highly active catalyst for ORR.

To understand the ORR mechanism in **1** more quantitatively, we performed rotating ring–disk electrode (RRDE) tests at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm in oxygen-saturated 0.1 m KOH. Generally, the ORR can proceed via two-electron pathways, where oxygen molecules are reduced to peroxide and subsequently to water, or via four-electron pathways in which oxygen molecules are reduced directly to water. The ORR process proceeded through two-electron pathways in fuel cells is detrimental, because the resulting peroxide leads to cell corrosion and eventually decreases the efficiency of the fuel cell. The number of electrons transferred in **1** is ≈4.0, similar to that of commercial Pt/C (Figure 3d), suggesting that **1** catalyzes the ORR process in a four-electron pathway. Furthermore, Figure 3d from RRDE measurement reveals that the evolution of peroxide (HO2 <sup>−</sup>) during ORR process is strikingly suppressed. The percentage yield of HO2 <sup>−</sup> on **1** is less than 2.4 and apparently lower than that of Pt/C, demonstrating that **1** is directly reducing oxygen molecule to water with high efficiency, which is very useful for fuel cell application. Suppression of the HO2 <sup>−</sup> yield on **1** is further confirmed from the plot of *k*1/*k*2 ratio (Figure S6b, Supporting Information) in which *k*1 corresponds to the direct reduction of O2 to water, while *k*2 corresponds to O2 reduction through HO2 <sup>−</sup>. The *k*1/*k*2 ratio is in the range of ≈44 (Figure S6b, Supporting Information), which is the highest among the reported values, suggesting that in this study the direct reduction of O2 to H2O via four-electron pathway is more facile than a series of the reaction involving two-electron pathway.[34,35]

The ORR kinetics of **1** is evaluated from RDE tests at different rotation speeds ranging from 400 to 2025 rpm. The diffusion saturated current density increases with respect to the rotation rate, because at higher speed the diffusion distance of oxygensaturated solution is shortened (Figure 3b), which improves the mass transport efficiently. The Koutecky–Levich (K–L) plots obtained from RDE tests show good linearity and parallelism (Figure S6a, Supporting Information), demonstrating the first-order reaction kinetics toward the dissolved oxygen concentration in the solution and the similar number of electrons transferred during the ORR reaction at different potentials. The number of electrons transferred is ≈4.08 between the potential of 0.82 and 0.90 V (Figure S6a, Supporting Information), which matches well with the RRDE result. This high activity of **1** is ascribed to alloying effect. Alloying two transition metals induces favorable changes in intrinsic properties by altering the

density of state (DOS) at the Fermi level of the metallic sites, which plays an essential role in determining their enhanced catalytic activity.[36–38] Moreover, graphitic layer efficiently confines the FeCo alloy nanoparticles in a limited space to avoid agglomeration.

To further confirm the high activity of **1** compared to commercial Pt/C and other synthesized catalysts, we calculate electrochemical active sites (EAS) and roughness factor (RF) from electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) [39,40] (Figures S7a–j and S8a–j, and Table S4, Supporting Information). The EAS and RF valves of **1** (38.67 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 197.28) are much better than the commercial Pt/C (26.35 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 134.43) and other synthesized catalysts (Figure S8a–j and Table S4, Supporting Information), which strongly supports our experimental observations that tuning the atomic weight ratio of Fe to Co in Fe*x*Co*y*@NGT can dramatically alter the ORR activity of Fe*x*Co*y*@NGT catalysts. Furthermore, to find the active sites in **1**, we examined the ORR activity of FeCo@G (G: graphene; in this catalyst we use graphene oxide (GO) as a supporting material instead of melamine), Co@NGT, Fe@NGT, and **1** in 0.1 m oxygen-saturated KOH with/without 10 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> <sup>m</sup> KCN (Figure S9a,b, Supporting Information), because it is well known that CN<sup>−</sup> ions can poison metals and metalN active sites of ORR.[26,41] The ORR activity in the absence of CN<sup>−</sup> ions is in the order of **1** > Fe@NGT > Co@NGT > Fe*x*Co*y*@G (Figure S9a,b, Supporting Information). It can be seen in Figure S9a,b of the Supporting Information that significant decreases in both *E*1/2 and current density of Fe*x*Co*y*@G, Co@ NGT, Fe@NGT, and **1** are observed in KOH solution having KCN, which suggests that the metals and metal–N active sites are blocked by CN<sup>−</sup> ions. The decreases in *E*1/2 of CoFe@G, Co@NGT, Fe@NGT, and **1** are 191, 41, 73, and 77 mV, respectively, representing that CN<sup>−</sup> ions have a less poisoning effect on the Co center compared to Fe. These control experiments with CN<sup>−</sup> ions clearly demonstrate that FeN, CoN, and FeCo are the active centers for ORR in **1**. Since the number of graphitic layers enclosing metal alloys is only 1–4 (Figure S1, Supporting Information), the ORR activity is governed by core metal alloys in addition to the N-doped graphitic carbon skeleton. Given that the graphitic carbon skeleton effects are similar for all NGT systems, the inner metal alloys would play a significant role in the ORR activity. The ORR results of Fe*x*Co*y*@G, Co@NGT, Fe@ NGT, and **1** without CN− ions show that the active sites should be in the order of Fe*x*Co*y*NC > FeNC > CoNC >FeCo alloy. As the FeCo alloy in Fe*x*Co*y*@G gives very small ORR activity (Figure S9b, Supporting Information), the Co/FeNC coordination in **1** is likely to be ORR active sites and the FeCo alloy can dramatically enhance activity of the neighboring FeN and CoN coordination for ORR.[26]

Long-term stability of the ORR catalyst is another important critical index in practical fuel cell applications. To evaluate the ORR stability of **1**, the accelerated durability tests (ADTs) for 5000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles are performed in a potential range of 0.6–1.0 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.1 m oxygen-saturated KOH solution at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . For comparison, the durability test of commercial Pt/C under similar conditions is also conducted. There is no obvious shift in the LSV curve before and after 5000 CV cycles for **1**, while Pt/C shows ≈45 mV degradation in its half-wave potential (Figure 3e). The long-time durability of **1** is further examined by the chronoamperometric response at a potential of 0.87 V versus RHE in 0.1 m oxygen-saturated KOH solution, which shows constant current density for 20 h (Figure 3f). The high stability and durability of **1** are due to in situ generation of core–shell from graphitic carbon. The graphitic layer protects FeCo alloy nanoparticles from corrosion of electrolyte, avoiding the process of the dissolution and re-deposition during electrochemical ORR testing. The morphological stability of this catalyst after durability test is analyzed by TEM, HR-TEM, and TEM-EDX, which shows similar hybrid morphologies to those before stability test (Figure S10, Supporting Information). For industrial fuel cell application, the ORR catalysts will be highly robust toward methanol (MOH) fuel; therefore, it is crucial to check the MOH tolerance of ORR catalysts.[41] Dramatic change in the current density of Pt/C is detected with the injection of 3 m MOH in 0.1 m O2-saturated KOH solutions, while no obvious change in the current density of **1** is observed under similar experimental conditions (Figure S11, Supporting Information). These experimental observations disclose that compared to commercial Pt/C, **1** has better MOH tolerance and higher selectivity toward ORR.

To evaluate the authenticity of **1** in an acidic environment, the ORR activity and stability are conducted in 0.1 m O2-saturated HClO4 solution. In acidic solution it displays a current density of 3 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 at a similar potential to that of Pt/C catalyst (Figure S12a, Supporting Information). Moreover, in the same selected potential region it shows similar Tafel slope (39.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) to that of commercial Pt/C (Figure S12b, Supporting Information). Interestingly, during 10 h durability tests, **1** exhibited superior stability (no obvious change in current density) in acidic solution compared to Pt/C (more than 60% decline in the current density) (Figure S12c, Supporting Information). It also shows high tolerance against MOH in 0.1 m O2-saturated HClO4 solution compared to Pt/C catalyst (Figure S12d, Supporting Information). The impressive stability, high tolerance against MOH, and similar Tafel slope of **1** to Pt/C in 0.1 m O2-saturated HClO4 validate that its ORR activity is superb not only in basic solution but also in acidic solution.

Overall, the electrochemical activity and stability depend on multiple factors.[42–47] First, FeN, CoN, and sufficient metallic FeCo alloys are inherently better in interacting with reactants (i.e., oxygen/water) than carbon atoms due to the presence of lone-pair electrons, thereby increasing the reactivity of reactants with the hybrid catalyst. Second, the graphitic structure around FeCo alloy with a high degree of carbon graphitization is intrinsically more stable toward oxidation and can well protect the active sites and maintain catalyst activity. The ORR occurring on more active Fe and Co provides an alternate pathway for donating electrons, which enhances the ORR activity and also protects the carbon structure. Third, due to the relatively higher electronegativity of N than that of C, the N dopants in **1** render higher positive charge density on their adjacent carbon atoms, by virtue of which these carbon atoms could become active sites.[42] Finally, the presence of CoFe alloy inside NGT results in decreased local work function on the graphitic surface due to easy electron transfer from core metal alloy to the NGT.[42]

**Figure 4.** Cell voltage and power density versus current of the Co1.08Fe3.34@ NGT catalyst as a cathode for AAEMFC using two different membranes. Fuel cell working conditions: temperature (60 °C), fully humidified H2 and O2 flow rates (200 cc min<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ). To study the effect of membrane, two different membranes of Tokuyama with AS-4 ionomer and Fumatech with FAA ionomer is used for the AAEMFC test.

Lastly, for industrial application, the AAEMFC efficiency is evaluated using **1** as an ORR catalyst and Tokuyama or Fumatech membrane as an anion exchange electrolyte. The single cell of **1** shows an open-circuit voltage (OCV) of ≈0.95 V with the maximum power of 117 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a current density of 300 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 with Tokuyama membrane and a maximum power of 63 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a current density of 188 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with Fumatech membrane (**Figure 4**) which are better than that of 40% commercial Pt/C having 0.8 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (a maximum power of 60 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2 and current densities of 120 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with Fumatech membrane).[40,48] Additionally, we observe a large voltage drop near 0.95 V due to low conductivity across the membrane. We also note that the AAEMFC performance is largely dependent on the kind of anion exchange membrane (Figure 4). Therefore, during the fabrication of fuel cell, selection of anion exchange membrane is one of the parameters due to its poor diffusion coefficient of OH<sup>−</sup> ions. Thus, further development of an anion exchange membrane with fast OH− ion transport remains as an important issue in obtaining the maximum power and current densities of alkaline anion exchange membrane fuel cells.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have synthesized highly active and stable ORR electrocatalysts composed of melamine-derived NGT encapsulating Co1.08Fe3.34 alloy with metalnitrogen bonds in the inside wall of NGT, which exhibits more positive onset potential, half-wave potential, and small Tafel slope than those of commercial Pt/C in basic solution. The four electron transfer, less HO2 <sup>−</sup> percentage (≈2.4), and high *k*1/*k*2 ratio (44) during the ORR process indicated that this catalyst directly reduces oxygen molecule to water with high efficiency. Moreover, in acidic solution this catalyst also shows compatible performance to that of Pt/C and extraordinary stability and methanol tolerance. The remarkable ORR activity of this catalyst could be ascribed to the nitrided Co1.08Fe3.34 alloy which favors faster electron movement and higher adsorption of oxygen molecule on the catalyst during catalytic reactions. Meanwhile, our study shows that tuning the Fe/Co nanoparticles in NGT significantly triggered the electrocatalytic active sites in the catalyst, which further enhance the ORR activity. The power density of AAEMFC with this catalyst is 117 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . The development of this nonprecious metal-based ORR catalyst not only leads to a significant reduction in fabrication cost of fuel cell but also improves their efficiency.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Chemicals*: Melamine (99%), cobalt(II) perchlorate hexahydrate, iron(III) chloride (reagent grade, 97%), potassium hydroxide, and Nafion (5 wt%) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Commercial 20 wt% Pt/C was obtained from Johnson Matthey. All the chemicals were analytical grade and used as received without further purification.

*Synthetic Procedure*: For the synthesis of Co1.08Fe3.34@NGT (denoted as **1** in the main text and 7@NGT in the Supporting Information), the different weight ratios of iron chloride and cobalt perchlorate hexahydrate were used with 2.2 g of melamine (Table S1, Supporting Information). In the synthesis procedure, the starting materials were first well ground, then dispersed in 80 mL of deionized water and sonicated for 15 h to attain the homogeneous mixture. The obtained mixture was dried at 80 °C and then ground to fine powder. The fine powder was calcined at 750 °C for 4 h under an argon atmosphere with a heating ramping rate of 5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> . To remove unreacted or debris materials, the calcined product was leached in 0.1 m HClO4, then filtered and thoroughly washed with ethanol and deionized water, and finally dried under vacuum at 70 °C.

*Characterization Techniques*: The cold field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) analysis was performed with a Hitachi High-Technologies S-4800 microscope. TEM, HR-TEM, and HAADF–STEM– EDS images were taken on JEM-2100F with an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. XPS data were measured on K-alpha (Thermo Fisher, UK) instrument. X-ray absorption fine spectroscopy measurements were carried out on ionization detectors (Oxford) at the Pohang Accelerator Laboratory (PAL). The BET surface area, pore volume, and pore size distribution with N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms were measured at 77 K using the BELSORP-miniII (BEL Japan, Inc.) system. For BET, the catalysts were degassed at 180 °C under vacuum for an overnight before measurements. Raman data were collected on a Confocal Raman alpha 300R system. High-power X-ray diffraction (HP-XRD) data were acquired on a Rigaku X-ray diffractometer/D/MAX2500V/PC equipped with a Cu Kα radiation (35 kV, 200 mA) system. The atomic and weight percents of elements in each catalyst were obtained from the Elemental analyzer (Truspec Micro, Leco) and inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES-700-ES, Varian).

*Electrochemical Measurements*: All electrochemical measurements were performed in 0.1 m KOH and HClO4 solutions using a three-electrode electrochemical workstation system (CHI 760E, CH Instruments, Inc.). The working electrodes in this study were the RDE and a RRDE (PINE AFE7R9GCPT, Pine Instruments, Inc.) having a diameter of 5.61 (glassy carbon disk area = 0.247 cm2 ) and 6.25 mm, respectively. A saturated calomel electrode (SCE) and graphite rods were used as a reference electrode and a counter electrode, respectively. To prepare the working electrode, 10 mg of powders of each catalyst was homogeneously dispersed in 1140 µL of water/ethanol (2:1 v/v) with 60 µL of Nafion solution (5 wt %) via sonication for 1 h. Then, for the ORR measurements in basic solutions, 6.00 µL of homogeneous ink was carefully loaded onto glassy carbon disk of an RRDE to achieve a 0.202 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> loading amount www.advancedsciencenews.com

of the catalyst. For acidic ORR measurements, the loading amount of Pt/C and this designed catalyst were 0.08 and 0.32 mg cm $^{-2}$  respectively. Before each ORR measurement, the electrolyte was bubbled with  $\rm O_2$  for 30 min and maintained over the electrolyte surface during the ORR testing to sustain the  $\rm O_2$  saturation. All the working electrodes were first activated by cycling the potential in the range of 0.00–1.2 V versus RHE at a scan rate of 50 mV s $^{-1}$  for at least 20 cycles. Linear sweep voltammetry data were recorded at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm at a scan rate of 10 mV s $^{-1}$  in the disk potential range of 1.1–0.4 V versus RHE. The RRDE measurement was performed at a constant ring potential of 1.3 V versus RHE.

All the obtained potential data versus SCE in this study were converted to potential versus RHE using the following formula

$$E(vs. RHE) = E(vs. SCE) + E_{SCE}^{0} + 0.0591 pH$$
 (1)

The number of electrons transferred and hydrogen peroxide production were evaluated from RRDE measurement using the following equations.

The number of electron transfer (n) during ORR testing

$$n = 4 \times \frac{I_{\rm d}}{I_{\rm d} + I_{\rm r}/N} \tag{2}$$

where  $I_d$  and  $I_r$  are disk and ring current densities, respectively, N is the current collection efficiency of the Pt ring which is 0.37.

The percentage of peroxide (% HO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>) during the ORR process

$$\%H_2O^- = 200 \times \frac{I_r/N}{I_d + I_r/N}$$
 (3)

The electron transfer number and kinetics of ORR from RRD measurement were evaluated using the following Koutecky–Levich equation

$$\frac{1}{j} = \frac{1}{j_1} + \frac{1}{j_k} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{0.5}} + \frac{1}{j_k} \tag{4}$$

$$B = 0.64nFAC_0D_0^{2/3}V^{-1/6}$$
 (5)

$$j_k = nFkC_0 \tag{6}$$

where J is the measured current density,  $J_1$  and  $J_k$  are the limiting and kinetic current densities, B is the slope of K-L plots,  $\omega$  is the rotation rate of the disk electrode, n is the electrons transferred number in ORR, F is the Faraday constant (96 485 C mol $^{-1}$ ), A is the geometric area of electrode ( $A=0.247~{\rm cm}^2$ ),  $C_0$  is the concentration of  $O_2$  which is  $1.2\times 10^{-6}~{\rm mol~cm}^{-3}$  in 0.1 M KOH,  $D_0$  is the  $O_2$  diffusion coefficient ( $1.9\times 10^{-5}~{\rm cm}^2~{\rm s}^{-1}$ ), V is the kinematic viscosity of the solution (0.01 cm $^2$  s $^{-1}$ ), and k is the electron-transfer rate constant.

To identify the ORR mechanism and calculate the kinetic parameters, the RRDE test was performed at different rotation rates ( $\omega$ ) at a constant ring potential of 1.3 V versus RHE and used the following equations

$$\frac{I_{d}N}{I_{r}} = 1 + 2\frac{k_{1}}{k_{2}} + \left(\frac{1}{Z_{H_{2}O_{2}}}\right) \left[k_{3} + (k_{3} + k_{4})\left(1 + 2\frac{k_{1}}{k_{2}}\right)\right] \omega^{-0.5}$$
(7)

$$Z_{\text{H}_2\text{O}_2} = 0.62D_{\text{H}_2\text{O}_2}^{\frac{2}{3}}V^{\frac{1}{6}}$$

where D is the diffusion coefficient in 0.1 M KOH solution, V is the kinetic viscosity, and  $k_3$  and  $k_4$  are the rate constants in the forward and backward directions, respectively. The linear relationship between  $I_dN/I_r$  and  $\omega^{-0.5}$  was observed with an intercept value of "A." The ratio of  $k_1/k_2$  was obtained using the relation

$$A = 1 + 2\frac{k_1}{k_2} \tag{8}$$

Fuel Cell Test: The Co<sub>1.08</sub>Fe<sub>3.34</sub>@NGT catalyst was used as a fuel cell cathode, and its performance in the real system was assessed by membrane electrode assembly (MEA) analysis in the AAEMFC. For the preparation of the cathode, the Co<sub>1.08</sub>Fe<sub>3.34</sub>@NGT catalyst and commercial ionomer (50 wt%) were well dispersed in isopropyl alcohol (IPA) via sonication. Subsequently, the homogeneous ink of Co<sub>1.08</sub>Fe<sub>3.34</sub>@NGT (3 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) as a cathode and Pt/C (0.4 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) as an anode were loaded on the active area of the gas diffusion layer (GDL). The MEA was fabricated by sandwiching the potassium hydroxide–doped Tokuyama or Fumatech membrane between cathode and anode. Finally, the MEA was conducted in a single cell mode, which comprises serpentine flow field channels in the graphite plates. The steady-state polarization experiment (cell voltage and power) of the assembled MEA was measured at 60 °C by keeping a humidified flow (100% relative humidity) of hydrogen and oxygen at the flow rates of 200 cc min<sup>-1</sup>.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author

### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by National Research Foundation, Korea (National Honor Scientist Program: 2010–0020414 and Global Frontier R&D Program on Center for Multiscale Energy System: 2016M3A6A7945505). The EXAFS experiments were performed in Pohang Accelerator Lab (PAL) beam line.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### Keywords

alkaline fuel cells, electrocatalysts, graphitic tubes, nitrided  $Co_x Fe_\gamma$  alloys, oxygen reduction reaction

Received: March 31, 2018 Revised: May 5, 2018 Published online:

- [1] M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, Science 2008, 321, 1072.
- [2] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. S. Horn, Nat. Chem. 2011, 3, 546.
- [3] G. L. Chai, K. Qiu, M. Qiao, M. M. Titirici, C. Shang, Z. Guo, Energy Environ. Sci. 2017, 10, 1186.
- [4] S. Sengodan, S. Choi, A. Jun, T. H. Shin, Y. W. Ju, H. Y. Jeong, J. Shin, J. T. S. Irvine, G. Kim, Nat. Mater. 2015, 14, 205.
- [5] R. K. Ahluwalia, X. Wang, A. Lajunen, A. J. Steinbach, S. M. Hendricks, M. J. Kurkowski, M. K. Debe, J. Power Sources 2012, 215, 77.
- [6] J. Greeley, I. E. L. Stephens, A. S. Bondarenko, T. P. Johansson, H. A. Hansen, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Rossmeisl, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, *Nat. Chem.* 2009, 1, 552.
- [7] J. J. Niu, J. N. Wang, Electrochim. Acta 2008, 53, 8058.
- [8] S. K. Singh, V. Kashyap, N. Manna, S. N. Bhange, R. Soni, R. Boukherroub, S. Szunerits, S. Kurungot, ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 6700.

[9] J. Pan, J. Han, L. Zhu, M. A. Hickner, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 5321.

- [10] Z. F. Pan, R. Chen, L. An, Y. S. Li, *J. Power Sources* **2017**, *365*, 430.
- [11] H. C. Huang, Y. C. Lin, S. T. Chang, C. C. Liu, K. C. Wang, H. P. Jhong, J. F. Lee, C. H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 19790.
- [12] J. Liu, M. Jiao, L. Lu, H. M. Barkholtz, Y. Li, Y. Wang, L. Jiang, Z. Wu, D. J. Liu, L. Zhuang, C. Ma, J. Zeng, B. Zhang, D. Su, P. Song, W. Xing, W. Xu, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, G. Sun. N*at. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15938.
- [13] J. N. Tiwari, W. G. Lee, S. Sultan, M. Yousuf, A. M. Harzandi, V. Vij, K. S. Kim, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 7729.
- [14] C. Zhu, H. Li, S. Fu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 517.
- [15] B. Lu, T. J. Smart, D. Qin, J. E. Lu, N. Wang, L. Chen, Y. Peng, Y. Ping, S. Chen, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 5617.
- [16] D. W. Wang, D. Su, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 576.
- [17] C. Tang, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1604103.
- [18] Y. Tong, P. Chen, T. Zhou, K. Xu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 7121.
- [19] Y. Lu, J. Wang, Y. Peng, A. Fisher, X. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700919.
- [20] H. Li, C. Ren, S. Xu, L. Wang, Q. Yue, R. Li, Y. Zhang, Q. Xue, J. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 5850.
- [21] Y. Hou, Y. Liu, R. Gao, Q. Li, H. Guo, A. Goswami, R. Zboril, M. B. Gawande, X. Zou, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 7038.
- [22] X. Zhao, C. M. Hayner, M. C. Kung, H. H. Kung, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2011**, *1*, 1079.
- [23] Z. Wang, S. Peng, Y. Hu, L. Li, T. Yan, G. Yang, D. Ji, M. Srinivasan, Z. Pan, S. Ramakrishna, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 4949.
- [24] V. N. Khabashesku, J. L. Zimmerman, J. L. Margrave, *Chem. Mater.* **2000**, *12*, 3264.
- [25] J. Guo, Y. Li, Y. Cheng, L. Dai, Z. Xiang, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 8379.
- [26] W. J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. J. Zhang, J. Q. Wang, J. S. Hu, Z. Wei, L. J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3570.
- [27] A. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rosler, W. Xia, P. Weide, A. J. R. Botz, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 4087.
- [28] H. A. Loytty, M. W. Louie, M. R. Singh, L. Li, H. G. S. Casalongue, H. Ogasawara, E. J. Crumlin, Z. Liu, A. T. Bell, A. Nilsson, D. Friebel, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 2247.
- [29] H. Jiang, Y. Yao, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Y. Su, X. Yang, C. Li, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 21511.

- [30] T. Zhou, Y. Du, D. Wang, S. Yin, W. Tu, Z. Chen, A. Borgna, R. Xu, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 6000.
- [31] T. Zhou, Y. Du, S. Yin, X. Tian, H. Yang, X. Wang, B. Liu, H. Zheng, S. Qiao, R. Xu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 2563.
- [32] L. Huo, B. Liu, G. Zhang, R. Si, J. Liud, J. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 4868.
- [33] U. Sim, T. Y. Yang, J. Moon, J. An, J. Hwang, J. H. Seo, J. Lee, K. Y. Kim, J. Lee, S. Han, B. H. Hong, K. T. Nam, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 3658.
- [34] V. G. Anju, R. Manjunatha, P. M. Austeria, S. Sampath, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 5258.
- [35] S. T. Chang, C. H. Wang, H. Y. Du, H. C. Hsu, C. M. Kang, C. C. Chen, J. C. S. Wu, S. C. Yen, W. F. Huang, L. C. Chen, M. C. Lin, K. H. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 5305.
- [36] V. V. Nemoshkalenko, M. G. Chudinov, V. G. Aleshin, Y. N. Kucherenko, L. M. Sheludchenko, *Solid State Commun.* **1975**, *16*, 755.
- [37] Y. Wang, P. B. Balbuena, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2005**, *109*, 18902.
- [38] K. Lee, O. Savadogo, A. Ishihara, S. Mitsushima, N. Kamiya, K. I. Ota, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2006**, *153*, A20.
- [39] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, I. M. Ferrer, S. M. Chatman, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 4347.
- [40] T. Palaniselvam, V. Kashyap, S. N. Bhange, J. B. Baek, S. Kurungot, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, 2150.
- [41] Y. Li, W. Zhou, H. Wang, L. Xie, Y. Liang, F. Wei, J. C. Idrobo, S. J. Pennycook, H. Dai. N*at. Nanotechnol.* **2012**, *7*, 394.
- [42] D. Yu, Q. Zhang, L. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 15127.
- [43] D. Deng, L. Yu, X. Chen, G. Wang, L. Jin, X. Pan, J. Deng, G. Sun, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 371.
- [44] H. T. Chung, J. H. Won, P. Zelenay, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 1922.
- [45] K. Gong, F. Du, Z. Xia, M. Durstock, L. Dai, *Science* **2009**, *323*, 760.
- [46] G. Wu, K. L. More, C. M. Johnston, P. Zelenay, *Science* **2011**, *332*, 443.
- [47] V. Vij, S. Sultan, A. M. Harzandi, A. Meena, J. N. Tiwari, W. G. Lee, T. Yoon, K. S. Kim, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 7196.
- [48] S. K. Singh, V. Kashyap, N. Manna, S. N. Bhange, R. Soni, R. Boukherroub, S. Szunerits, S. Kurungot, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *10*, 6700.