---
source: Tian 等 - 2024 - Controlled Construction of Core‐Shell Structured Prussian Blue Analogues towards Enhanced Oxygen Red.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 48.835s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:17:29.378060Z
---

www.chemsuschem.org

# **Controlled Construction of Core-Shell Structured Prussian Blue Analogues towards Enhanced Oxygen Reduction**

Han Tian,[a] Chang Chen,[a, b] Ziyi Yu,[a] Wenshu Luo,[a, b] Xu Yu,[a] Ziwei Chang,[a, c] Shujing Li,[d] [Xiangzhi](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7111-5599) Cui,\*[a, b, d] and Jianlin Shi[a, b]

Metal-organic frameworks-based electrocatalysts have been developed as highly desirable and promising candidates for catalyzing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), which, however, usually need to be prepared at elevated temperatures and may suffer from the framework collapse in water environments, largely preventing its industrial application. Herein, this work demonstrates a facile low-temperature ion exchange method to synthesize Mn and Fe co-loaded Prussian blue analogues possessing core-shell structured frameworks and favorable water-tolerance. Among the catalysts prepared, the optimal

HMPB-2.6Mn shows a high ORR electrocatalytic performance featuring a half-wave potential of 0.86 V and zinc-air battery power density of 119 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , as well as negligible degradation up to 60 h, which are comparable to commercial Pt/C. Such an excellent electrocatalytic performance is attributed to the special core-shell-like structure with Mn concentrated in outer shell, and the synergetic interactions between Mn and Fe, endowing HMPB Mn with outstanding ORR activity and good stability.

# **Introduction**

Advanced energy storage and conversion systems (such as metal-air batteries and fuel cells) are rapidly emerging as ecofriendly and sustainable pathway to solve the ever-increasing fossil energy consumption and accompanying severe environmental problems.[1] However, the thermodynamically sluggish cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) kinetics and consequent performance deterioration at high potential have severely hindered the large-scale application of above-mentioned renewable energy technologies.[2] Considering the high cost and scarcity of the most commonly used platinum (Pt) and Pt-based catalysts, as well as the opportunities of employing noble metal-free catalysts in metal-air batteries and alkaline fuel cells,[3] developing efficient and low-cost catalysts with satisfactory alkaline ORR activity during long-term service is extremely crucial for the scale-up commercialization of novel energy conversion systems.

In recent years, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have attracted more and more attentions on account of their intriguing physical/chemical properties such as uniform porosity, high specific surface area, tunable composition and controllable morphology.[4] However, a majority of conventional MOFs are unstable in humid environment and susceptible to be attacked by water molecules, thus causing the framework collapse due to weak coordination bond.[5] The vulnerability of MOFs is one of the greatest obstacles for the further application in water systems including electrocatalytic reactions.[6] Prussian blue analogues (PBAs), one class of typical MOFs, have attracted significant spotlight as new catalysts owing to their threedimensional open frameworks, multiple active sites, high temperature independence and more importantly, high stability against water.[7] The natural Prussian blue is a kind of ancient pigment with a chemical formula of Fe4[Fe(CN6)]3 among which Fe (II) and Fe (III) is bonded with C and N in the cyano group, respectively.[8] The artificial PBAs can be generally described as A*x*M1[M2(CN)6]*<sup>y</sup>* ·6H2O, where M1 and M2 are transition metals linked by the cyano groups and A is an introduced cation in the interspace of the PBA frameworks.[9] Both the tunable coordination structure and high water-tolerant stability, as well as the feasibility of low temperature preparation endow the PBAs exciting potential as promising electrocatalyst.

Usually, Fe-based catalysts (especially Fe-N C) are commonly developed as the main ORR substitutes for noble Pt catalysts owing to their low-cost and relatively high catalytic activity.[10] Unfortunately, however, the soluble Fe under harsh operating conditions (*>*0.5 V vs. RHE)[11] will inevitably suffer from the oxidative attack by reactive oxygen species such as hydroxyl radicals (Equation 1: Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> +H2O2!Fe3<sup>+</sup> +OH +·OH) and peroxy radicals (Equation 2: H2O2+2Fe3<sup>+</sup>!2Fe2<sup>+</sup> +O2+ 2H<sup>+</sup>, Equation 3: O2+Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>!Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> +·O2 ) from the byproduct of

- [a] *H. Tian, C. Chen, Z. Yu, W. Luo, X. Yu, Z. Chang, Prof. X. Cui, Prof. J. Shi Shanghai Institute of Ceramics Chinese Institute of Sciences Shanghai 200050 (P. R. China) E-mail: cuixz@mail.sic.ac.cn*
- [b] *C. Chen, W. Luo, Prof. X. Cui, Prof. J. Shi Center of Materials Science and Optoelectronics Engineering University of Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing 100049 (P. R. China)*
- [c] *Z. Chang School of Physical Science and Technology Shanghai Tech University Shanghai 201210 (P. R. China)*
- [d] *S. Li, Prof. X. Cui Hangzhou Institute for Advanced Study University of Chinese Academy of Sciences Hangzhou 310024 (P. R. China)*
- *Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202301265>*

two electron ORR *via* Fenton reaction,[12] resulting in the corrosion of membrane electrode and unsatisfactory durability.[13] Among the conventional transition metals, Mn follows into the people's spotlight thanks to its rather weak reactivity for the Fenton reaction as compared to other transition metal (Fe, Co…), making a promising ORR catalyst.[14] Thus, combined with the controllable structure of PBAs, constructing a new-type PBAs with Fe and Mn can provide the possibility to simultaneously acquire both high activity and stability.

Herein, we demonstrate the fabrication of a novel Fe and Mn co-loaded PBA with hollow and mesoporous structure (HMPB Mn) as efficient ORR electrocatalyst *via* a facile lowtemperature ion exchange method. The ratio of Mn to Fe in Mn-HMPB composite can be adjusted reasonably through changing the added content of Mn precursor. It has been found that HMPB-2.6Mn with 2.6 mg (CH3COO)2Mn·4H2O added shows the optimal ORR electrocatalytic activity of 0.86 V in halfwave potential (E1/2), which is comparable to commercial 20 wt. % Pt/C (E1/2=0.87 V). And the limiting current density of HMPB-2.6Mn is even higher than that of Pt/C, confirming the more active sites in HMPB-2.6Mn. The specific MnFe-shell/Fe-core structure not only contributes to more highly active sites owing to the synergetic alloying effect between Fe and Mn, but also fully utilizes the advantage of good stability for Mn. Besides, it can be also proved from the corresponding ORR performance in varied concentrations of KOH solutions that the internal resistances of solutions decrease with the higher electrolyte concentration, while the more ions in solutions hinder the release of internal ions in Mn-HMPB, resulting the significantly higher catalyst internal resistance and lower limiting current densities.

# **Results and Discussion**

#### **Synthesis and Characterization**

The schematic diagram of Mn and Fe co-loaded HMPB Mn catalysts synthesis is shown in Figure 1a. First, cubic MPB was constructed with the assistance of PVP (reducing agent and stabilizer) by a simple solvothermal treatment. In acidic environment, PVP can react with K3[Fe(CN)6] to produce potassium ferrocyanide (K4[Fe(CN)6]) at 80°C. In the meantime, K3[Fe(CN)6] hydrolyzes and ionizes to release iron ions in the presence of hydrogen ions, which can react with the resulted K4[Fe(CN)6] to form PB.[15] The coating of PVP during the entire formation process makes mesoporous PB (MPB) possible, and the PVP also makes the resulted nanoparticles more stable in aqueous solutions. Next, MPB was selectively etched to obtain hollow MPB (HMPB) in acid environment and the cubic framework was well preserved simultaneously with the protection of PVP. Then, heterogeneous element Mn was introduced into HMPB and distributed mainly in the outside surface and internal mesoporous channels of HMPB Mn. Simultaneously, K3[Fe(CN)6] was used again as Fe source to repair the structure of HMPB Mn to a certain extent. From X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns in Figure 1b, the samples MPB, HMPB and HMPB-2.6Mn all show a typical cubic pattern of Fe4[Fe(CN6)]3 structure (JCPDF No. 73– 0687).[16] The characteristic peaks of MPB and HMPB at about 17.5°, 24.8°, 35.4° and 39.8° can be indexed to the (200), (220), (400) and (420) planes, respectively. After the introduction of Mn, the corresponding characteristic peaks of HMPB-2.6Mn shifted slightly to the left compared to those of MPB and HMPB (orange region in Figure 1b), which was attributed to the substitution of Mn for Fe in the lattice owing to the relative larger radius of Mn. For in-depth analysis, the Rietveld refine-

**Figure 1.** (a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of HMPB Mn samples. (b) XRD patterns of MPB, HMPB and HMPB-2.6Mn samples. (Orange region: The enlarged XRD patterns.) (c) The histograms of fitted cell parameters for MPB, HMPB and HMPB-2.6Mn.

ment was performed on the XRD spectrum and the fitting results of MPB, HMPB and HMPB-2.6Mn were displayed in Figure S1-S3. Through comparing the fitted cell parameters in Figure 1c, it can be further confirmed that Mn was introduced into the lattice of HMPB.

The Scanning electron microscope (SEM) (Figure 2a) and Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) (Figure 2b) images also demonstrate the successful synthesis of cubic MPB nanocrystals with uniform distribution. And the measured interplanar spacing of 0.36 nm for MPB in Figure 2c is corresponding to the (220) planes of cubic Fe4[Fe(CN6)]3, which is consistent with the aforementioned XRD results. After the acid etching, the cubic structure of HMPB (Figure S4a and S4b) was well preserved except for abundant mesoporous and channels. With the adsorption and reduction of Mn precursor, HMPB-2.6Mn (Figure 2d and 2e) still maintained the cubic shape like HMPB and there was almost no change observed between HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB. The TEM images of HMPB-1.3Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn were also showed in Figure S5 and S6, and the similar structures were observed. The SEM images of MPB, HMPB and HMPB-2.6Mn were shown in Figure S7. It can be observed that the size of cubic MPB is mainly about 107 nm. After the etching process, the surface of HMPB become smoother and the size slightly increases to ~110 nm. And after the introduction of Mn, the size of HMPB-2.6Mn is obviously increased to ~130 nm, which is caused by the presence of surface MnFe-shell. Furthermore, it can be found that the corresponding interplanar spacing of HMPB-2.6Mn in Figure 2f is 0.37 nm, slightly larger than that of MPB. And the values of 0.36 and 0.37 nm in Figure 2h and 2i also represent the interplanar spacings of MPB and HMPB Mn, respectively, agreeing well with the HRTEM results. Besides, from the energy dispersive spectrometer mapping (EDS-mapping) shown in Figure 2g, C, N and Fe are uniformly distributed in the whole cubic HMPB-2.6Mn structure while Mn is mainly distributed in the surface. That is to say, Mn and Fe are simultaneously located in the outer layer of HMPB-2.6Mn and

**Figure 2.** (a) SEM, (b) TEM and (c) HRTEM images of MPB. (d) SEM, (e) TEM and (f) HRTEM images of HMPB-2.6Mn. (g) STEM-EDS elemental mappings of HMPB-2.6Mn. The interplanar spacing profiles of (h) MPB and (i) HMPB-2.6Mn.

the inner layer is mainly composed of Fe. The core-shell-like structure with Mn in shell layer can fully take advantage of good stability of Mn in ORR catalysis.

To obtain more detailed chemical oxidation states and further explore the source of ORR activity, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements of HMPB Mn with varied Mn loading amounts were carried out. From the XPS survey (Figure S8), Fe, Mn, N and C elements can be observed for HMPB-1.3Mn, HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn, which is consistent with STEM-EDS results. The respective content percentage of Mn and Fe in HMPB Mn are displayed in Table S1, from which the ratio of Mn/Fe unsurprisingly increases with the more adding amount of Mn precursor. Furthermore, it has been found that the Mn/Fe ratio in the surface (0.828) from XPS results is higher than that of the whole framework (0.538) from EDS results (Table S2), deeply consolidating the abovementioned MnFe-shell/Fe-core structure.

Figure 3a shows the comparisons of XPS Fe 2p spectra for HMPB-1.3Mn, HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn, and the corresponding sub-bands with binding energy values at 708.81 eV, 711.3 eV, 721.67 eV, 724.32 eV and 717.33 eV can be attributed to Fe2<sup>+</sup> 2p3/2, Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p3/2, Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p1/2, Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p1/2 and the satellite peak, respectively.[17] As the Mn loading amount increases, the area ratio of Fe2<sup>+</sup>/Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> begin to increase, that is to say, the chemical valence of Fe in HMPB Mn decreases gradually owing to the substitution Mn to Fe. The specific area ratios of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> were displayed in Table S3. Next, the Mn 2p spectra (Figure 3b) of three HMPB Mn samples can all be deconvoluted into four sub-bands, which were assigned to Mn 2p1/2, Mn 2p3/2 and their satellite peaks, respectively. It can be found that the corresponding sub-bands for HMPB-2.6Mn shift negatively compared with those of HMPB-1.3Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn, which obviously influences ORR activity. The specific values of four sub-bands for HMPB-1.3Mn, HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn were shown in Table S4.

Besides, the N 1s spectra of HMPB Mn (Figure 3c) with varied loading amounts show three characteristic sub-bands at 398.07 eV, 399.3 eV, and 402.28 eV, corresponding to pyridinic N, pyrrolic N and oxidized N, respectively.[18] The area percentage of pyridinic N, pyrrolic N and oxidized N for as-prepared HMPB Mn samples were shown in Figure 3d and the specific values were also displayed in Table S5. Usually, it is considered that pyridinic N is the main origin for ORR activity.[19] From Figure 3d, it is found that HMPB-2.6Mn only shows the moderate pyridinic N content (62.2%) compared with those of HMPB-1.3Mn (61.5%) and HMPB-3.9Mn (82.2%). The above results prove that the dominant origin of high ORR activity for as-prepared HMPB-2.6Mn is mainly from the synergetic effect of Fe and Mn, rather than the pyridinic N. Furthermore, there is no obvious change observed from the XPS C 1s spectra in Figure S9, which confirms that the introduction of Mn does not change the C skeleton significantly.

#### **Electrocatalytic ORR performances**

The ORR electrocatalytic performances of the as-prepared catalysts were evaluated in O2-saturated KOH solutions with

**Figure 3.** (a) XPS Fe 2p, (b) Mn 2p and (c) N 1s spectra of as-prepared HMPB-1.3Mn, HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn. (d) The area percentage of pyridinic N, pyrrolic N and oxidized N for as-prepared HMPB-1.3Mn, HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn.

varied concentrations. First, the CV measurements of HMPB Mn with varied Mn loading amounts were conducted at a scan rate of 100 mVs <sup>1</sup> to manifest the synergetic effect of Mn and Fe on the electrochemical performance. From Figure S10, all the HMPB Mn catalysts show the obvious reduction peaks at about 0.8 V, among which HMPB-2.6Mn exhibits a much higher peak current density (3.97 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) than those of HMPB-1.3Mn (2.90 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) and HMPB-3.9Mn (3.31 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ). In the meantime, the HMPB-2.6Mn catalyst clearly shows the highest ORR electrocatalytic activity of 0.86 V in its half-wave potential (E1/2) as shown in Figure 4a, which is comparable to commercial 20 wt. % Pt/C (E1/2=0.87 V). Besides, the LSV comparisons of MPB, HMPB and HMPB-2.6Mn were shown in Figure S11. Obviously, HMPB-2.6Mn exhibits the much better ORR performance than MPB and HMPB. In the meantime, the ORR performance of HMPB-2.6Mn catalyst is also competitive among the reported Mn-based catalysts (Table S6). Noteworthily, the limiting current density of HMPB-2.6Mn is even higher than that of commercial Pt/C catalyst, which is attributed to the abundant active sites and porous structure benefiting mass diffusion of HMPB-2.6Mn. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) can be tested by the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) recorded in the non-Faradaic region (1.025-1.125 V *vs.* RHE) under varied scan rates. From Figure S12 and S13, the ECSA of HMPB-2.6Mn has been calculated to be 100 cm2mg <sup>1</sup> , which is higher than that of MPB (68 cm2mg <sup>1</sup> ).

Furthermore, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement (Figure 4b) was carried out at 0.88 V (vs. RHE) in the frequency range from 10 <sup>2</sup> to 10<sup>5</sup> Hz to evaluate the diffusion kinetics of as-prepared HMPB Mn catalysts. Firstly, the HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn catalysts exhibit a much smaller circle arc than that of HMPB-1.3Mn from the Nyquist plots, which confirms their smaller resistance in the electrode systems.

**Figure 4.** ORR performances of the as-prepared catalysts in 1 M KOH solution. (a) LSV curves of commercial Pt/C and HMPB Mn with varied Mn loading amount. (b) The impedance curves of different HMPB Mn samples at the potential of 0.88 V (vs. RHE) in the frequency range from 10 <sup>2</sup> to 10<sup>5</sup> Hz. (c) Time-dependent current density curve of HMPB-2.6Mn at 0.82 V (vs. RHE) obtained by continuous test for 100000 s. (d) The electron transfer numbers of HMPB-2.6Mn at varied potentials from 0.45 V to 0.85 V.

Then, an optimal equivalence circuit in the inset of Figure 4b was employed to fit the resistance of each component, in which R1 and R2 correspond to the electrolyte resistance and electrolyte-catalyst interface resistance, respectively.[20] The specific resistance data for three HMPB Mn catalysts are displayed in Table S7. Obviously, R2 of HMPB-2.6Mn, the most influential parameter, is lower than those of HMPB-1.3Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn, and R1 of three HMPB Mn catalysts are almost the same between each other. On the whole, the lower resistance and faster charge transfer between electrode and electrolyte results in the more significant enhancement of the catalytic activity for O2 reduction.

Moreover, the long-term chronoamperometry test at a constant voltage of 0.82 V (vs. RHE) was performed to evaluate the stability of HMPB-2.6Mn in ORR catalysis. It can be found from Figure 4c that there is no obvious decrease in the ORR electrocatalytic activity for HMPB-2.6Mn even after tested for 100000 s, firmly proving the excellent ORR catalytic stability. Besides, the Rotating Ring-Disk Electrode (RRDE) tests were carried out in O2-saturated 1 M KOH solution to calculate the electron transfer numbers. As shown in Figure 4d, the RRDE measurement demonstrates an entire four-electron pathway in the voltage range from 0.45 V to 0.85 V, consolidating the high catalytic activity and high selectivity of four-electron pathway under alkaline condition.

To understand the kinetic diffusion characteristic of HMPB Mn catalysts in-depth, a series of KOH solutions with varied concentrations (0.1 M, 0.5 M and 1 M) were used as the ORR electrolytes. Foremost, it has been observed that HMPB-2.6Mn catalyst outperforms other HMPB Mn samples (Figure 5a and 5c), presenting the highest half-wave potentials in the KOH solutions of varied concentrations (0.1 M to 1 M). In addition, the limiting current density of HMPB-2.6Mn increase from ~3.7 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (1 M KOH) to ~4.3 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (0.1 M KOH). Correspondingly, the electrolyte resistance becomes smaller as the

**Figure 5.** LSV curves of HMPB-1.3Mn, HMPB-2.6Mn and HMPB-3.9Mn in (a) 0.1 M KOH and (c) 0.5 M KOH, and (b, d) the corresponding ESI curves, respectively. Applied voltage: 0.88 V (vs. RHE); Frequency range: 10 <sup>2</sup> ~10<sup>5</sup> Hz.

KOH concentration increases (Figure 5b and 5d), which is due to the higher electron conductivity in higher concentrations of KOH solutions than in lower ones. Impressively, however, the over-high KOH concentration is not beneficial to the decrease of electrolyte-catalyst interface resistance, which can be attributed to inhibition effect on the releases of abundant Mn and Fe from HMPB Mn by over-high ion concentrations in the electrolyte. Resultantly, the active site losses of HMPB Mn catalysts lead to the lowered limiting current density in high concentration of KOH solutions.

# **Zinc-air battery performance**

To further demonstrate the ORR electrocatalytic activity, the optimal HMPB-2.6Mn was used as cathode catalyst in an assembly zinc-air battery. As exemplified in Figure 6a, a composite matrix (carbon paper and Ni foam) pre-coated with above-mentioned HMPB-2.6Mn, or commercial Pt/C catalyst, was used as an air cathode, in coupling with a Zn anode and the aqueous 6 M KOH filled with 0.2 M Zn(Ac)2 electrolyte as the separator.[21] Figure 6b shows the polarization and power density curves of air-breathing zinc-air battery operated at room temperature of ~20 °C. Obviously, the peak current density and peak power density of HMPB-2.6Mn reach 169 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 119 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively, which is even higher than those of commercial Pt/C (peak current density: 164 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ; peak power density: 116 mWcm <sup>2</sup> ) under the same test conditions. It can be also found that HMPB Mn catalyst shows almost the same open-circuit voltage and the slower delay of cell voltage than commercial Pt/C, which is the reason for excellent zinc-air battery performance.

Moreover, the long-time stability of such a zinc-air battery was monitored. From Figure 6c, the cell voltage of zinc-air battery based on HMPB-2.6Mn catalyst can keep stable for a long time period applied at the varied constant current densities of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in the time course. More importantly, durability of the batteries was further evaluated using galvanostatic recurrent pulse method at a constant current density of 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and a discharge/recharge cyclic duration of 10 min (5 min each). It is obvious from Figure 6d that the excellent rechargeability of HMPB-2.6Mn as cathode catalyst has been successfully achieved and the zinc-air battery shows a negligible decay in the round-trip efficiency (~51%) up to 60 h. Besides, the calculated specific capacity of HMPB-2.6Mn-based zinc-air battery reaches ~750.4 mAh gZn <sup>1</sup> as shown in Figure S14. These results verify the superior activity and durability of HMPB-2.6Mn as the air cathode, which ensures a promising water-resistant MOF-based catalyst application in the sustainable energy storage and conversion devices.

**Figure 6.** (a) Schematics of the assembly configuration of a zinc-air battery. (b) The polarization and power density curves of zinc-air battery with HMPB-2.6Mn or commercial Pt/C as cathode catalyst. Cathode area: 1 cm<sup>2</sup> ; Loading amount: 1 mg cm <sup>2</sup> . (c) Long-time durability of HMPB-2.6Mn equipped zinc-air battery at the current density of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with each of 5 h. (d) Galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling curve at 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> of the HMPB-2.6Mn equipped zincair battery.

# **Conclusions**

A novel Mn and Fe co-loaded and core-shell-structured HMPB Mn catalyst featuring favored water-tolerance has been developed as efficient ORR electrocatalyst through the facile low-temperature ion exchange method. Importantly, the specific mesoporous PBA structure and the regulated element distributions, where Mn and Fe are co-located in the outer layer of HMPB Mn and the inner layer is mainly enriched in Fe, guaranteeing both high ORR activity and stability concurrently. The obtained HMPB-2.6Mn catalyst shows a considerably high ORR electrocatalytic activity with the E1/2 value of 0.86 V comparable to commercial Pt/C and excellent stability up to 100000 s. Besides, the marked zinc-air battery performances in terms of peak current density, peak power density and durability have been also achieved by using HMPB-2.6Mn cathode catalyst. This work not only broadens the horizon for constructing promising noble metal-free electrocatalyst by employing Mn of intrinsic high durability as the active site, but also provides a new perspective for the design and development of water-tolerant PBAs structure as high-efficiency ORR electrocatalyst in sustainable energy storage and conversion fields.

# **Experimental section**

#### **Materials**

Potassium ferricyanide (K3[Fe(CN)6]) and trisodium citrate dihydrate (Na3C6H5O7 ·2H2O) were purchased from Adamas Reagent Co., Ltd. Manganese (II) acetate tetrahydrate ((CH3COO)2Mn·4H2O), polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP, K30) and hydrochloric acid (HCl) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Nafion D-520 dispersion (5 wt.%) was purchased from Dupont China Holding Co., Ltd. Commercial 20wt. % Pt/C and the carbon black (XC-72) were purchased from Shanghai HEPHAS Energy Equipment Co., Ltd. Ethyl alcohol was purchased from Shanghai Lingfeng Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. All materials were used as received without further purification.

#### **Synthesis of mesoporous Prussian Blues (MPB)**

First, 3 g of PVP and 132 mg of K3[Fe(CN)6] were dissolved in 40 ml of 0.01 M HCl solutions and stirred for 30 min. Second, the mixture solutions in yellow cap bottle were heated to 80°C and maintained for 24 h. At last, multiple centrifugal cleanings with deionized water were carried out and frozen drying to obtain the MPB.

#### **Synthesis of hollow MPB (HMPB)**

20 mg of as-prepared MPB and 100 mg of PVP were dissolved in 20 ml of 1 M HCl and stirred for 3 h. Then, the solution was transferred into an 80 ml Teflon reaction kettle and was heated at 140°C for 4 h. Finally, multiple centrifugal cleanings with deionized water and ethanol, respectively, were carried out and vacuum drying to obtain the HMPB.

#### **Synthesis of HMPB-Mn**

6 mg of HMPB, 8 mg of Na3C6H5O7 ·2H2O, 30 mg of PVP and a certain amount of (CH3COO)2Mn·4H2O were dispersed in 3 ml of H2O and stirred for 3 h. Next, 1.2 ml of 3.3 mg/mL K3[Fe(CN)6] solutions was prepared and added into the above stirred solutions and continued to be stirred for 2 h. After kept silently for 24 h, the mixture solutions were centrifuged several times to obtain the final product HMPB Mn. The added amount of (CH3COO)2Mn·4H2O are 1.3 mg, 2.6 mg and 3.9 mg, respectively.

#### **Materials Characterization**

The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected at a scan rate of (4°)/min from 5° to 90° on the Rigaku D/Max-2550 V Xray diffractometer with a Cu K<sup>α</sup> radiation target (40 kV, 40 mA). Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were acquired by a FEI Magellan-400 field emission scanning electron microscopy (5 kV). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements, highresolution TEM (HRTEM) and corresponding energy dispersive X-ray spectrometer mapping (EDS-mapping) were taken on a JEM-2100F field emission transmission electron microscopy (200 kV). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) signals were collected by a Thermo Fisher Scientific ESCAlab250 XPS instrument with monochromatic Al K<sup>α</sup> X-rays and the binding energies of high-resolution spectra were measured after calibration, specifically, by setting C 1s at 284.6 eV.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

The electrochemical measurements were carried out in varied concentrations of KOH solutions (0.01 M, 0.1 M, 0.5 M, 1 M and 6 M) using a standard three-electrode setup on a CH Instruments 760E electrochemical workstation. A glass carbon electrode (GCE) coated with as-prepared catalysts, a graphite rod electrode and an Ag/AgCl electrode were employed as the working electrode, counter electrode and reference electrode, respectively, among which Ag/ AgCl electrode was stored in saturated KCl solutions and rinsed with deionized water before use. All potentials were calibrated relative to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale according to the Nernst equation (ERHE=EAg/AgCl+0.059×pH+0.1989 V), where EAg/AgCl is the external potential measured against the Ag/AgCl reference electrode, which has been corrected with a reversible hydrogen electrode.

To prepare catalyst ink for ORR test, 5 mg of as-prepared catalyst (or commercial 20 wt. % Pt/C) and 5 mg of carbon black (XC-72) were dispersed in the mixture of 900 μl of isopropanol, 90 μl of deionized water and 10 μl of Nafion. After the mixture was sonicated for 30 min, 10 μl of homogeneous ink was pipetted onto the glassy carbon electrode. Before all electrochemical measurements, high-purity O2 gas was bubbled into the solution for at least 30 min. First, the cyclic voltammetric (CV) measurements were performed in varied concentrations of O2-saturated KOH solution at a scan rate of 100 mVs 1 . Then, the linear sweep voltammetric (LSV) curves were measured at a scan rate of 10 mVs <sup>1</sup> with a rotating speed of 1600 rpm. Besides, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were conducted in a frequency range of 10 <sup>2</sup> Hz to 10<sup>5</sup> Hz with an amplitude of 5 mV at a fixed voltage of 0.88 V (vs. RHE).

The kinetics parameters including electron-transfer number (n) and the yield of H2O2 can be calculated from the following Equations (4) and (5).

$$n = (4I_{D})/(I_{D} + I_{R}/N)$$
 (4)

$$%H_2O_2 = (200I_R/N)/(I_D + I_R/N)$$
 (5)

Where  $I_D$  and  $I_R$  are the disk current and the ring current, respectively, N is the experimental current collection efficiency by Pt ring on the ring disk electrode, generally determined to be the value of 0.37 from the reduction of  $K_3 Fe(CN)_6$ .

#### Zn-Air battery tests

200  $\mu$ l of as-prepared ink in above ORR measurement was pipetted onto the 1×1 cm composite matrix (carbon paper and Ni foam) and the loading amount was 1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>, which was used as the cathode of Zn-Air battery. A polished Zn foil was applied as the anode, and 6 M KOH filled with 0.2 M Zn(Ac)<sub>2</sub> was applied as the electrolyte to form zincate (Zn(OH)<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>) to ensure reversible Zn electrochemical reactions at the anode. The polarization curves of zinc-air battery were recorded by a CH Instruments 760E electrochemical work-station. Charge/discharge cycling tests were performed on the LAND CT2001 instrument by a 5 min charge step followed by a 5 min discharge step at the same current density of 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the support of this research by National Natural Science Foundation of China (52172110), the "Scientific and Technical Innovation Action Plan" Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan Science & Technology Cooperation Project of Shanghai Science and Technology Committee (21520760500), the "Super postdoctoral Incentive Program" of Shanghai Municipal Human Resources and Social Security Bureau (2021411) and Special Research Assistant Grant Project from Chinese Academy of Sciences.

# **Conflict of Interests**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Prussian Blues  $\cdot$  oxygen reduction  $\cdot$  zinc-air battery  $\cdot$  core-shell structure  $\cdot$  metal-organic frameworks

[1] a) C. Lee, W. J. M. Kort-Kamp, H. Yu, D. A. Cullen, B. M. Patterson, T. A. Arman, S. Komini Babu, R. Mukundan, R. L. Borup, J. S. Spendelow, Nat. Energy 2023, 8, 685; b) J. Li, K. Zhang, B. Wang, H. Peng, Angew. Chem.

- **2022**, *61*, e202213026; c) Y. Hao, D. Yu, S. Zhu, C. Kuo, Y. Chang, L. Wang, H. Chen, M. Shao, S. Peng, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 1100.
- a) Z. Zhao, Z. Liu, A. Zhang, X. Yan, W. Xue, B. Peng, H. L. Xin, X. Pan, X. Duan, Y. Huang, Nat. Nanotechnol. 2022, 17, 968; b) F. Xiao, Y. Wang, G. L. Xu, F. Yang, S. Zhu, C. J. Sun, Y. Cui, Z. Xu, Q. Zhao, J. Jang, X. Qiu, E. Liu, W. S. Drisdell, Z. Wei, M. Gu, K. Amine, M. Shao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2022, 144, 20372; c) H. Huang, A. Huang, D. Liu, W. Han, C. Kuo, H. Chen, L. Li, H. Pan, S. Peng, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2303109.
- [3] a) P. Sun, Z. Qiao, S. Wang, D. Li, X. Liu, Q. Zhang, L. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, D. Cao, Angew. Chem. 2023, 62, e202216041; b) K. Ding, Y. Ye, J. Hu, L. Zhao, W. Jin, J. Luo, S. Cai, B. Weng, G. Zou, H. Hou, X. Ji, Nano-Micro Lett. 2023, 15, 28; c) L. Li, Y. Ma, F. Cui, Y. Li, D. Yu, X. Lian, Y. Hu, H. Li, S. Peng, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2209628.
- [4] a) X. He, Nano-Micro Lett. 2023, 15, 148; b) A. Zhang, Q. Zhang, H. Fu, H. Zong, H. Guo, Small 2023, e2303911; c) D. Yu, Y. Ma, F. Hu, C. Lin, I. Li, H. Chen, X. Han, S. Peng, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2101242.
- [5] M. Ding, H.-L. Jiang, CCS Chemistry 2021, 3, 2740.
- [6] S. Bao, J. Li, B. Guan, M. Jia, O. Terasaki, J. Yu, Matter 2020, 3, 498.
- [7] Y. Zeng, X. F. Lu, S. L. Zhang, D. Luan, S. Li, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem.* 2021, 60, 22189.
- [8] X. Wu, J. J. Hong, W. Shin, L. Ma, T. Liu, X. Bi, Y. Yuan, Y. Qi, T. W. Surta, W. Huang, J. Neuefeind, T. Wu, P. A. Greaney, J. Lu, X. Ji, *Nat. Energy* 2019, 4, 123.
- [9] G. Zhang, Y. Li, X. Xiao, Y. Shan, Y. Bai, H. G. Xue, H. Pang, Z. Tian, Q. Xu, Nano Lett. 2021, 21, 3016.
- [10] a) L. Peng, J. Yang, Y. Yang, F. Qian, Q. Wang, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, e2202544; b) S. Liu, C. Li, M. J. Zachman, Y. Zeng, H. Yu, B. Li, M. Wang, J. Braaten, J. Liu, H. M. Meyer, M. Lucero, A. J. Kropf, E. E. Alp, Q. Gong, Q. Shi, Z. Feng, H. Xu, G. Wang, D. J. Myers, J. Xie, D. A. Cullen, S. Litster, G. Wu, Nat. Energy 2022, 7, 652.
- [11] F. Kong, X. Cui, Y. Huang, H. Yao, Y. Chen, H. Tian, G. Meng, C. Chen, Z. Chang, J. Shi, Angew. Chem. 2022, 61, e202116290.
- [12] X. Huang, M. Song, J. Zhang, T. Shen, G. Luo, D. Wang, *Nano-Micro Lett.* 2023, 15, 86.
- [13] H. Tian, X. Cui, H. Dong, G. Meng, F. Kong, Y. Chen, L. Peng, C. Chen, Z. Chang, J. Shi, Energy Storage Mater. 2021, 37, 274.
- [14] a) H. Shang, W. Sun, R. Sui, J. Pei, L. Zheng, J. Dong, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, Z. Zhuang, W. Chen, J. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, Nano Lett. 2020, 20, 5443; b) H. Tian, L. Zeng, Y. Huang, Z. Ma, G. Meng, L. Peng, C. Chen, X. Cui, J. Shi, Nano-Micro Lett. 2020, 12, 161; c) J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, Nature Catalysis 2018, 1, 935.
- [15] a) X. Cai, W. Gao, L. Zhang, M. Ma, T. Liu, W. Du, Y. Zheng, H. Chen, J. Shi, ACS Nano 2016, 10, 11115; b) X. Cai, W. Gao, M. Ma, M. Wu, L. Zhang, Y. Zheng, H. Chen, J. Shi, Adv. Mater. 2015, 27, 6382.
- [16] Y. Liu, D. He, Y. Cheng, L. Li, Z. Lu, R. Liang, Y. Fan, Y. Qiao, S. Chou, Small 2020, 16, 1906946.
- [17] X. Wang, Q. Zhang, H. Jiang, Y. Li, H. Zhu, L. Zheng, L. Gu, H.-P. Liang, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2023, 11, 10051.
- [18] G. Ye, S. Liu, K. Zhao, Z. He, Angew. Chem. 2023, 62, e202303409.
- [19] Y. Ha, B. Fei, X. Yan, H. Xu, Z. Chen, L. Shi, M. Fu, W. Xu, R. Wu, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 10, 2002592.
- [20] W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem.* 2021, 60, 7297.
- [21] T. Tang, W. J. Jiang, X. Z. Liu, J. Deng, S. Niu, B. Wang, S. F. Jin, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 7116.

Manuscript received: August 26, 2023 Revised manuscript received: September 29, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: October 5, 2023 Version of record online: November 9, 2023