---
source: Wang 等 - 2020 - Interfacial Engineering of Bimetallic Carbide and Cobalt Encapsulated in Nitrogen‐Doped Carbon Nanot.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.526s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:23:41.971050Z
---

Chemistry–Sustainability–Energy–Materials

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Interfacial engineering of bimetallic carbide and cobalt encapsulated nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes for boosted electrocatalytic activity towards oxygen reduction

**Authors:** Kun Wang, Zhenjiang Lu, Yizhao Li, Shiqiang Wang, and Yali Cao

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.202001619

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202001619

**Interfacial engineering of bimetallic carbide and cobalt encapsulated nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes for boosted electrocatalytic activity towards oxygen reduction**

Kun Wang,[a] Zhenjiang Lu,[a] Yizhao Li,[a,b] Shiqiang Wang,[a] and Yali Cao\*[a]

[a] Dr. K. Wang, Dr. Z. J. Lu, Prof. Y. Z. Li, Dr. S. Q. Wang, Prof. Y. L. Cao Key Laboratory of Energy Materials Chemistry, Ministry of Education, Key Laboratory of Advanced Functional Materials, Autonomous Region, Institute of Applied Chemistry, College of Chemistry, Xinjiang University, Urumqi, Xinjiang 830046, China.

Email: [caoyali523@163.com.](mailto:caoyali523@163.com)

[b] Prof. Y. Z. Li School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xinjiang University, Urumqi Xinjiang 830046, China.

# **Abstract**

Engineering heterojunction is an underlying strategy to develop efficient electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) by tune electronic properties by interfacial cooperation. Herein, we reported a heterojunction electrocatalyst (Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs) by a facile ions exchange-thermolysis two-step strategy. Co3ZnC coupled with Co@NCNTs can effectively promote the interfacial charge transport between different components, optimized the adsorption and desorption behavior of intermediate products at the heterointerface. In-situ grown N-doped CNTs can not only improve the electrical conductivity but also can suppress the oxidation of transition metal nanoparticles in alkaline media. Moreover, the abundant nitrogen types (pyridinic, Co-N<sup>x</sup> and grapitic nitrogen) in carbon skeleton can provide more active sites for oxygen adsorption. Benefit from the in situ grown NCNTs with outstanding electrical conductivity, the abundant nitrogen types (pyridinic-N, Co-N<sup>x</sup> and graphitic-N), and the synergistic effect among components, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid not only demonstrates excellent oxygen reduce activity with a half-wave potential of 0.83 V and fast mass transport with limited current density of 6.23 mA·cm-2 , but also exhibits superior stability and methanol tolerance, surpassed commercial Pt/C catalysts. This work provides an effective heterostructure for interfacial electronic modulation to improve its electrocatalytic performance.

**Keywords:** Carbon materials; Heterojunction; Thermolysis; Electrocatalysts; Oxygen reduction reaction

# **Introduction**

Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) and rechargeable metal-air batteries are regarded as a promising candidate for next-generation energy storage and conversion technologies owing to their high reliability, high theoretical specific energy and power density [1] . However, the sluggish kinetics of oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) involves in multiple proton-coupled electron transfer process at the cathode limited the energy conversion efficiency of fuel cells and rechargeable metal-air batteries [2] . At present, Pt-based nanomaterials are still considered to be the most efficient electrocatalysts for ORR, but their high costs, scarcities and low tolerance limited the large-scale commercialization. Moreover, it cannot be ignorable that these noble-metal-based electrocatalysts suffered from insufficient durability. Thus, developing high-efficient, low-cost and durable electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction is of great urgancy.

Many nonprecious metal-based catalysts including transition metal oxides [3] , sulfides [4] , phosphides [5] , etc., owing to their promising electrocatalytic activities, natural abundance, and low cost features, have attracted great attention. However, such materials surfer from low electrical conductivities and insufficient active sites which restrict their catalytic performance [6] . Recently, transition metal carbides (TMCs) with high stability and electrical conductivities are considered as a promising electrocatalyst for ORR. Although TMCs exhibits certain electrocatalytic performance of ORR, its catalytic activity still needs to be further enhanced to catch up with precious metalbased electrocatalysts. Many efforts have been made to further improve the catalytic properties of TMCs materials such as morphological control [7] , defect engineering [8] , and structure engineering [9] . Heterojunction with electron-rich and electron-deficient surfaces can not only facilitate interfacial charge transfer between different components but also effectively modulate the band structure of composite materials, which is crucial to modulate adsorption and desorption behavior of reaction intermediates on catalysts surface [10] . Therefore, engineering heterojunction is an fundamental strategy to remarkably enhance the catalytic properies. However, engineering the functional

building blocks of heterostructures with high reactivity, good electrical conductivity and excellent structural stability remains a formidable challenge. Recently, graphitized carbon shell completely encapsulating transition metals was proposed as a effective functional building blocks of heterostructures to tune electronic redistribution. The electron of metal nanoparticals can transfer to the graphitized carbon shell that can modulate the charge distribution of active sites, which can optimize the adsorption/desorption of O<sup>2</sup> and intermediates and thus promote the electrocatalytic reaction [11] .

Motivated by the above consideration, herein, a heterojunction electrocatalyst (Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs) was constructed via a facile ions exchange-carbonization strategy. The heterointerface, between Co and NCNTs, as well as between Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs, can promote interfacial charge transfer between different components, which can effectively modulate adsorption and desorption behavior of reaction intermediates. Moreover, in-situ grown N-doped CNTs achieved by metal nanoparticlecatalyzed not only prevent the corrosion and aggregation of transition metal nanoparticles but also enhances electron transfer capacity during electrocatalysis reaction, which is beneficial to improve the activity and stability of electrocatalyst. Benefit from unique heterostructure and abundant nitrogen types (pyridinic, Co-N<sup>x</sup> and grapitic nitrogen), Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs exhibits excellent ORR catalytic activity, and superior durability and methanol tolerance, better than commercial Pt/C catalysts.

# **Experimental Section**

All chemicals were of analytical grade and were used as received without further purification.

#### **Preparation of CoC2O4·2H2O nanorods template**

In typical synthesis [12] , 10 mmol of cobalt sulfate (CoSO4·7H2O) was ground into powder in an agate mortar; then, 40 mmol of oxalic acid (H2C2O4·2H2O) was added into the agate mortar for solid-state chemical reaction by grinding to promote the contact of reactants. After an hour, the obtained mixture was rinsed with a large amount of distilled water and dried at ambient temperature for 12 h to obtain the CoC2O4·2H2O nanorods used as the template of for subsequent synthesis.

#### **Preparation of ZnCo-ZIFs precursors**

0.187 g of CoC2O4·2H2O nanorods was dispersed into 20 mL methanol, then 30 mL methanol solution of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O contained 0.2974 g Zn(NO3)2·6H2O (the molar ratio of Zn/Co is 1) was added into above suspension under stirring. After a certain reaction time, 2.0 g of 2-methylimidazole was dissolved in 20 mL methanol to form a clean solution, which was then poured into the above mixture solution under stirring for 24 h. After the reaction completed, the product was collected using a centrifuge and washed with methanol several times, and dried at room temperature for overnight. Then, the bimetal zeolitic-imidazolate-frameworks (ZnCo-ZIFs) precursors was fabricated and donated as ZnCo-ZIFs-1. The precursors with other molar ratio of Zn and Co (Zn/Co is 0, 0.5, 2) were also prepared and used as a comparison.

#### **Preparation of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs**

When the molar ratio of Zn/Co is 1, the ZnCo-ZIFs-1 precursor was calcined at 700<sup>o</sup>C for 2 h with a heating ramp of 2<sup>o</sup>C/min in argon atmosphere to obtain the solid product. Subsequently, the as-prepared product was treated with 1 M hydrochloric acid (HCl) to remove the inactive metal aggregates, and the final product (Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs) was synthesized. In addition, the precursors were also treated at other temperature (600<sup>o</sup>C, 800<sup>o</sup>C and 900<sup>o</sup>C) for comparison.

The obtained Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid was further treated with excessive amounts of 0.5 M H2SO<sup>4</sup> solution under a water bath of 80°C for 6 h to remove Co3ZnC species as much as possible to obtain Co@NCNTs.

#### **Materials characterization**

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected on X-ray diffraction equipment (XRD, Bruker D8 Advance) by employing Cu-Kα radiation source (λ=1.54056 Å). The Raman spectra measurements were performed by employing Raman spectroscopy (Bruker Senterra) with wavelength of 532 nm. The morphology of samples was investigated by field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM, Hitachi S-4800H), transmission electron microscopy (TEM, Hitachi-600), high resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM, JEOL JEM-2010F), and elemental ChemSusChem 10.1002/cssc.202001619

mapping were obtained from JEOL JEM-2100F microscope. The surface components of electrocatalysts were analyzed by employed X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS, Thermo Fisher Scientific ESCALAB250Xi).

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

For the oxygen reduction reaction, both the cyclic voltammograms (CV) and the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were conducted on Pine workstation in a conventional three-electrode system. Pt wire, Ag/AgCl (3 M KCl), and glass carbon electrode (GCE) used as a counter electrode, reference electrode, and working electrode, respectively. 5 mg of as-prepared catalyst powder was dispersed into 1 mL mixing solution of 980 µL isopropyl alcohol and 20 µL (0.5 wt%) nafion solution under ultrasonic treatment for 1 h. Then, 20 µL of catalyst ink was deposited onto the rounded glass carbon rotating disk electrode (RDE, mass loading of 0.254 mg/cm<sup>2</sup>) or rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE, 0.210 mg/cm<sup>2</sup>) and dried naturally at room temperature. The ORR performances were tested in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH and 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> aqueous solution. Before the electrochemical measurements, the catalyst electrode was activated by CV scans over a potential window from -1 to 0 V for 10 cycles at a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in the N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. The ORR current densities were collected by LSV in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution in the voltage range of 0.1 to -1.0 V at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. The disk electrode was rotated at various rates from 400 to 2025 rpm. The durability tests were performed in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolytes by Chronoamperometric response of samples at 0.5 V with a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were performed at open-circuit potentials by employing an AC voltage with a 5 mV amplitude in a frequency range from 100 KHz to 0.1 Hz. All potentials reported have been converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode according to E(RHE)=E(Ag/AgCl, saturated KCl)+0.1989 V + 0.059pH (V).

The LSV data obtained at different speeds from the RDE test and the kinetic current was calculated according to Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equations:

$$j^{-1} = j_{\text{K}}^{-1} + j_{\text{L}}^{-1} = j_{\text{K}}^{-1} + (B\omega^{1/2})^{-1}$$
  
 $B = 0.2 \ n \ F \ C_0 \ (D_0)^{2/3} \ v^{-1/6}$ 

Where *j* is the measured current density, *j*<sup>L</sup> is the diffusion limited current, *j*<sup>K</sup> is the kinetic current density, *B* is the slope of the K-L plots, *ω* is the electrode rotation rate, *n* is the number of electron transfer per oxygen molecule, *F* is the Faraday constant (96485C mol-1 ), *C<sup>0</sup>* is the bulk concentration of O<sup>2</sup> (1.2×10-6 mol cm-3 ), *D<sup>0</sup>* is the diffusion coefficient of the dissolved O<sup>2</sup> (1.9×10-5 cm<sup>2</sup> s -1 ), *ν* is the kinetic viscosity of the electrolyte (0.01 cm<sup>2</sup> s -1 ). The total electron transfer number (*n*) and hydrogen peroxide yield (%*H2O2*) were determined by the RRDE measurement using:

$$n = 4 j_{\rm D}/[j_{\rm D} + (j_{\rm R}/N)]$$

$$H_2O_2 = 200 (j_R/N)/[j_R/(N+j_D)]$$

Where *j*<sup>D</sup> is the disk current, *j*<sup>R</sup> is the ring current, and *N* determined to be 0.37 is the collection efficiency of the Pt ring.

# **Results and Discussion**

#### **Synthetic process of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterostructure**

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the fabrication and reaction process of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterostructure.

The synthesis process of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs is illustrated in Scheme 1. Firstly, CoC2O4·2H2O nanorods as sacrificial template and metal cobalt source are dispersed in methanol solution, subsequently, the methanol solution of zinc nitrate hexahydrate (Zn(NO3)2·6H2O) was added to react with CoC2O4·2H2O nanorods. In this process, the portion of Co2+ are gradually released by the cation exchage reaction strategy. Subsequently, a certain concentration methanol solution of 2-methylimidazole is added to coordinate with Zn2+ and Co2+ to induce the formation of 3D close-packed ZnCo-ZIFs precursor (shown in Figure S1 and S2). Finally, the close-packed ZnCo-ZIFs precursor composed of small ZnCo-ZIFs rhombus dodecahedron with size of 30-40 nm is pyrolyzed at 700<sup>o</sup>C under Ar atmosphere, and eventually Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid is obtained by further treated with 1 M hydrochloric acid (HCl) to remove the inactive metal aggregates.

#### **The morphology and component of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterostructure**

The morphology and structrue of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs is characterized by SEM and TEM. As shown in Figure 1a-d, a short CNTs with a diameter of approximately 10 nm (shown in Figure S3) can be clearly observed, and metallic nanoparticles are encapsulated in the tip of NCNTs. From high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) images, a lattice spacing of 0.20 nm corresponds to the (111) plane of metallic Co can be clearly observed (Figure 1e-f). Meanwhile, the lattice spacing of 0.36 nm around the metallic Co nanoparticles is also detected, which designated to (002) plane of the graphitic carbon shells, indicating well-defined heterointerfaces between metallic Co and NCNTs were formed. It is likely that Co nanoparticles served as the catalyst to grow CNTs by metal nanoparticle-catalyzed residual organics during the pyrolysis [13] . In addition, Co3ZnC species with a lattice fringe of 0.21 nm can be clearly observed, and no graphitic carbon shells are observed around Co3ZnC. These results indicate Co nanoparticles are encapsulated inside the graphitic N-CNTs and Co3ZnC species are mainly exposed on the surface of N-doped nanotubes (the heterointerfaces between Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs were further formed). The mapping image of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs is shown in Figure 1g, all elements including C, N, O, Co and Zn are homogeneously distributed throughout whole domain, indicating Co3ZnC species are homogenously distributed in Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs, and nitrogen are doped into carbon nanotubes skeleton (namely abundant defects are generated).

**Figure 1.** (a, b) SEM images, (c-d) TEM images, (e-f) HR-TEM images and (g) TEM elements mapping of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs.

**Effect of pyrolysis temperature on morphology and composition of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterostructure**

**Figure 2.** (a) XRD pattern and (b) Raman spectra of the products synthesized by the heatingtreatment of the ZnCo-ZIFs precusor (Zn/Co=1:1) at different temperature.

Furthermore, the morphologies and structure can be controlled by changing the pyrolysis temperature. As depicted in Figure 2a, when the pyrolysis temperature is 600<sup>o</sup>C, only a small amount of encapsulated microstructure (Co@NC) can be formed in the synthesis process. As the pyrolysis temperature increase to 700<sup>o</sup>C, the diffraction peaks of graphitized carbon, Co3ZnC and metallic Co are clearly observed, indicating Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid is successfully obtained. Moreover, from the enlarged XRD diffraction pattern of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs (in Figure S4), the diffraction peaks of metallic Co shift to lower diffraction angle, indicating that a strong interaction between Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs may exist. As the temperature increases to 800<sup>o</sup>C, only the characteritic peaks of metallic Co is detected and the characteritic peaks of Co3ZnC disappeared. It can be attributed to the decomposition of Co3ZnC species, which is in good agreement with a small weight loss and an obvious endothermic peak in the range of 800<sup>o</sup>C-900<sup>o</sup>C observed from TG-DSC analysis of ZnCo-ZIFs (shown in Figure S5). As the pyrolsis temperature further increases to 900<sup>o</sup>C, the characteritic peaks of metallic Co is sharply decreased, which is contrary to the results reported in the literature [14] . This phenomenon can be attributed to Zn species gradually evaporated at high temperature above 800<sup>o</sup>C [15], leading to cobalt ions agglomerate into large particles at high temperature that cannot catalyze the formation of encapsulated structure, and exposed on surface of carbon materials, then is subsequently removed through leaching with 1 M HCl in synthesis process. While, the intensity of characteristic peak of graphitized carbon is significantly increased, indicating the increased graphitization of carbon, which is further confirmed by Raman spectra in Figure 2b. Two characteristic bands around 1340 cm-1 and 1580 cm-1 are assigned to D band and G band, respectively. The ID/I<sup>G</sup> as an index to invastage the defects in carbon materials was calculated, corresponding to 1.04 (600<sup>o</sup>C), 0.97 (700<sup>o</sup>C), 1.02 (800<sup>o</sup>C), and 0.81 (900<sup>o</sup>C), respectively, indicating that many defects in carbon are created, which are caused by the nitrogen doping. Furthermore, three peaks of metallic Co centered at 471 cm-1 , 515 cm-1 and 675 cm-1 in Raman spectrum of samples obtained at 700<sup>o</sup>C and 800<sup>o</sup>C are observed [16] . However, the absence of metallic Co in Raman spectra at a high temperature of 900 <sup>o</sup>C indicats the aggregation of Co nanoparticles to large nanoparticles, which cannot catalyze the formation of carbon nanotube encapsulated stureture, and subsequently removed by acid treatment. The SEM images of the samples further prove that temperature plays an important role in the formation of carbon nanotube encapsulated structure. As shown in Figure S6, when thermolysis temperature is 600<sup>o</sup>C, no carbon nanotubes is observed, which can be attribute to the insufficient drive force during thermolysis. When the temperature ascends to 700<sup>o</sup>C, ChemSusChem 10.1002/cssc.202001619

well-defined carbon nanotubes is uniformly formed. Further increasing the temperature to 800°C and 900°C, carbon nanotubes gradually disappeared. It can be ascribe to the agglomeration of cobalt ions into larger particles at high temperature above 800°C, which cannot effectively catalyze the formation of carbon nanotubes. Combining these results together, the effects of pyrolysis temperature can be concluded as follows: changing the composition of Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid, the graphitization of carbon and the formation of carbon nanotubes.

# Effect of Zn/Co ratio on morphology and composition of Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterostructure

To further understand the morphologies and structure evolution Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterojunction, ZnCo-ZIFs with different molar ratios of Zn/Co (1:2, 1:1 and 2:1) treated under the same conditions (700 °C) was investigated. As shown in Figure 3a, when a small amount of Zn (Zn/Co<1) was introduced into the forementioned synthesis process, only the characteristic diffraction peaks of metallic Co and C were observed, indicating Co@NC is formed. As the Zn/Co molar ratio is 1, except for a broad diffraction peak located at approximately 26° that can be assigned to (002) plane of graphitic carbon and the characteric peaks at 44.6°, 51.8°, 76.2° that are indexed to the (111), (200) and (220) planes of metallic Co (PDF No. 15-0806), the diffraction peaks located at 41.9°, 48.8° and 71.5° are also detected, which are assigned to the (111), (200) and (220) plane of Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC phase (PDF No. 29-0524), indicating the formation of Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC/Co@NCNTs. When the molar ratio Zn/Co further increases (Zn/Co is 2), only the diffraction peaks of Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC are observed and the characteritic peaks of metallic Co disappear, which indicate Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC/NC is formed. SEM images of samples for comparison prepared by the ZnCo-ZIFs precusors with different molar ratios of Zn/Co (1:2, 1:1 and 2:1) treated at 700°C is shown in Figure S7, when the ratio is 1, the morphology of the obtained product is a tubular structure. As the molar ratio of Zn/Co is less or more than 1, few even no tubular structure is generated. Theses results indicate that an appropriate molar ratio of Zn/Co has a significant effect on the formation of Co<sub>3</sub>ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterojunction.

Considering that the surface chemical composition and structure in

Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs may play an significant role in electrocatalytic properties, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed. From C 1s spectrum in Figure 3b, four types of C species can be divided, corresponding to Metal-C (283.7 eV), C-C (284.7 eV), C-N (285.8 eV), C-O (286.9 eV), respectively [17] . The detected metal-C species can be ascribed to the formation of Co3ZnC species within Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs, and the existence of C-N species indicate the formation of nitrogen-doped carbon that is favor of providing more O<sup>2</sup> adsorption sites [14a,18] . The types of N species doped in carbon skeleton was further classified. As shown in Figure 3c, N 1s spectrum can be divided into five peaks with binding energy at 398.4 eV for pyridinic-N, 399.4 eV for Co-Nx, 400.5 eV for pyrrolic-N, 401.8 eV for graphitic-N and 403.3 eV for oxidized-N, respectively[14a,19] . It has been well-established that the doped N species (Co-Nx, graphitic N and the pyridinic N) can effectively tailor the electronic configuration of carbon atoms and induce the adsorption of oxygen to enhance the electrocatalytic performance for ORR [20] . The contents of nitrogen types of Co@NC, Co3ZnC/NC and Co3ZnC/NCNTs were further extracted from N 1s spectra by X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS). As shown in Table S1, the content of pyridinic N (40.6%) in Co3ZnC/NCNTs is less than Co@NC (52.9%) and Co3ZnC/NC (60.9%), but the concentration of Co-N (7.5%) and graphitic N (11.3%) in Co3ZnC/NCNTs is higher than Co@NC and Co3ZnC/NC. The abundant nitrogen species (pyridinic N, Co-N and graphitic N) existed in samples will facilitate the oxygen reduction reaction in alkaline medium. Co 2p XPS spectrum can be deconvoluted into two remarkable peaks at approximately 778.6 eV and 793.6 eV, corresponding to Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2, respectively (in Figure 3d). And the Co 2p3/2 XPS spectrum can further divide into three peaks located at 778.4 eV, 779.7 eV and 782.9 eV, corresponding to metallic Co<sup>0</sup> , Co-C and Co-N, respectively [10b,21] , indicating that the formation of metallic Co nanoparticles and Co3ZnC. Furthermore, the detected Co-N peaks from N 1s and Co 2p spectrum demonstrate the strong interaction between metallic Co nanoparticles and Ndoped carbon nanotubes. Namely, electrons are transferred from metallic Co nanoparticles to N-doped carbon nanotubes due to the different electronegativity between Co and N elements. Notably, the binding energy of Co 2p for

Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs increased by 0.1 eV compared with that of Co3ZnC/NC, indicating that Co3ZnC species can further promote the outer electrons of metallic Co nanoparticles transfer to the NCNTs. The enrichment of electrons on the surface of the catalyst will facilitate the adsorption of oxygen molecule. Therefore, the abundance of N species and the synergistic effect between Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs will facilitate the electrocatalytic ORR reaction.

**Figure 3.** (a) XRD pattern of as-obtained samples with different Zn/Co molar ratio: A (0.5:1), B (1:1), C (2:1). High-revolution XPS spectra of (b) C 1s, (c) N 1s, and (d) Co 2p Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid.

#### **Electrocatalytic ORR performance**

To shed light on the effect of the respective components on catalytic performance, the electrochemical tests of electrocatalysts toward ORR was initially performed in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. LSV curves of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs treated at different temperature, Co@NC, Co3ZnC/NC and Pt/C are shown in Figure 4a, S8, it can be seen that Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs treated at 700<sup>o</sup>C (Zn/Co is 1 ) displays an excellent ORR activity, comparable or even exceed commercial Pt/C catalyst. Corresponding parameter including half-wave potential (*E*1/2) and diffusion-limiting current density (*J*L) is intuitively shown in Figure 4b, half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs

(0.83 V) is positive than Co@NC (0.81 V), Co3ZnC/NC (0.81 V) and close to Pt/C (0.85 V). Furthermore, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs shows a higher *J*<sup>L</sup> value of 6.23 mA·cm-2 , than Co@NC (4.55 mA·cm-2 ), Co3ZnC/NC (4.89 mA·cm-2 ), and Pt/C (5.10 mA·cm-2 ), indicating that Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs exhibited excellent mass transfer and charge transfer capability, which is confirmed by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements. As shown in Figure S9, the Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs has the smaller charge transfer resistance (*Rct*) than Co@NC and Co3ZnC/NC, indicates N-doped CNTs can improve the electrical conductivity. In addition, kinetic current density (*J*k) of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs is calculated of 13.6 mA·cm-2 at 0.8 V, which is close to that of 20% Pt/C (14.4 mA·cm-2 ), but is much higher than Co/NC (6.1 mA·cm-2 ) and Co3ZnC/NC (8.8 mA·cm-2 ). The results demonstrate that Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs with abundant hetero-interface and rich N types significantly pormotes the ORR kinetic process.

Rotating risk-desk electrode (RRDE) measurement was carried out to estimate the H2O<sup>2</sup> yield and the corresponding electron-transfer numbers (*n*) of electrocatalysts. As shown in Figure 4c, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs exhibits a low H2O<sup>2</sup> yield less than 5% in the potential range from 0.2 to 0.8 V and a high electron transfer number (*n*) of about 3.91 based on the RRDE record that is close to the calculated n-value of Pt/C (3.94). The results indicate that Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs is mainly undergo a four-electron transfer pathway for ORR in alkaline electrolyte, which was further demonstrated by Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plot derived form LSV curves of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid at different rotating speeds (shown in Figure 4d).

The durability of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterosturcture is further investigated by chronoamperometric experiments at -0.5 V. Remarkably, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs exhibits excellent long-term stability with 83% current retention after 50000 s, whereas the current retention of Pt/C droped to 66% after 35000 s (shown in Figure 4e). Additionally, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid also demonstrates superior methanol tolerance with a negligible loss in activity, which exceeds that of commercial 20% Pt/C with nearly 30% decay of its initial activity in alkaline electrolyte. As shown in Figure 4f, there is no significant change in current density after 9000 s for Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs after 10 mL

methanol added into the electrolyte at a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. Conversely, due to the initiation of methanol oxidation, an immediate sharp current jump and a significant decay in current density was observed on Pt/C electrocatalyst. These results imply that the Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs with robust durability and methanol tolerance is a potential catalyst for direct methanol fuel cells. In addition, the structure of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs after stability testing for 50000 s was further investigated. From the TEM and HRTEM images (Figure S10), the structure of metallic nanoparticles encapsulated in the tip of NCNTs was still remained. Meanwhile, metallic Co nanoparticales with a lattice spacing of 0.20 nm and Co3ZnC with a lattice spacing of 0.21 nm can be clearly observed. Moreover, the graphitic carbon shells with a lattice spacing of 0.36 nm around the metallic Co nanoparticles is also detected (Figure S10), indicating well-defined graphitic carbon shells can effectively suppress the oxidation of transition metal nanoparticles in alkaline media.

**Figure 4.** (a) LSV curves and (b) the histogram of *E*1/2 and *J*<sup>L</sup> of Co@NC, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs, Co3ZnC/NC and Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 10 mV s−1 with a rotating speed of 1600 rpm. (c) Peroxide yields (H2O2, %) and electron transfer numbers (n) of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs and Pt/C. (d) LSV curves of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs at different rotating speeds (the inset shows the K-L plots at different potentials including the calculated number of electron transfer (n) per O2). (e) The stability test and (f) methanol resistance test of Co3ZnC/Co@NCTs and 20% Pt/C electrodes by Chronoamperometric response in 0.1 M KOH solution.

# **Effect of Co3ZnC and nitrogen types on electrocatalytic performance of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterostructure**

To further investigate the effcet of Co3ZnC species on electrocatalytic ORR activity of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs, the hybrid catalyst was verified by leaching with 0.5 M H2SO<sup>4</sup> solution at 80<sup>o</sup>C for 6 h. Since Co3ZnC species are mostly exposed on surface of N-doped carbon nanotubes that can be removed after leaching in hot acid, only encapsulated structure can survive during leaching process. As shown in Figure 5a, the characteritic peaks of Co3ZnC species are not detected and only metallic Co is detected in XRD pattern after leaching in hot acid, which indicates Co3ZnC nanoparticles are largely removed in Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs. This is consistent with the observation that the peak of Co 2p and Zn 2p observiously decreased from XPS in Figure 5b-d. These results further confirmed that Co3ZnC nanoparticles are mainly exposed on the surface of N-doped carbon nanotubes and Co nanoparticles are primarily encased in N-doped carbon nanotubes. Expectedly, compared to Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs without leaching (*E*1/2=0.83 V, *J*L=6.38 mA·cm-2 ), the catalytic activity of Co@NCNTs (*E*1/2=0.80 V, *J*L=5.05 mA·cm-2 ) is markedly descended after Co3ZnC species is removed from Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs (shown in Figure 5e), indicating Co3ZnC species play an significant role in enhancing the ORR activity of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid. This role is most likely defined by the synergetic interaction between the Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs, which is further confirmed by the ORR activity of individual components from comparative experiments, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs exhibited higher ORR activity than Co3ZnC/NC, Co@NC and Co@NCNTs materials. In other words, Co3ZnC species effectively facilitate the electrons transfer between Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs, which

further modify the surface electrons structure of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs and results in the improvement of ORR activity.

**Figure 5.** (a) XRD patterns and (b) Full XPS survey spectrum. (c) Co 2p, (d) Zn 2p, (e) LSV curve of Co@NCNTs and Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs obtained before and after leaching in 0.5 M H2SO<sup>4</sup> at 85 <sup>o</sup>C. (e) LSV curve of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs, and Co@NCNTs at 1600 rpm in 0.1M KOH and (f) at 1600 rpm in 0.1M HClO4.

Moreover, the electrocatalytic ORR performance of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs is further evaluated in acid electrolyte (0.1M HClO4). As shwon in Figure 5f, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid still remain higher electrocatalytic activity than Co@NCNTs for ORR, indicating that Co3ZnC species can significantly enhance electrocatalytic activity of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid both in alkaline and acid electrolyte. Comparing with electrocatalytic activity of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs and

Co@NCNTs in alkaline conditions, the Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs and Co@NCNTs demonstrates obvious activity degradation in acidic electrolytes (shown in Figure S11). These results indicate that the rich contents of nitrogen species (pyridinic N, Co-Nx and graphitic N) and the synergistic effect between Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs are responsible for the high catalytic activity of Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs hybrid.

# **Conclusions**

In summary, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs heterojunction integrated with Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs was designed by a facile ions exchange-thermolysis two-step strategy. Co3ZnC can effectively promote electron transfer from metallic Co nanoparticles to the heterointerface of Co3ZnC and Co@NCNTs, which further optimized the interfacial electronic structure. In-situ grown N-doped CNTs on the one hand can improve the electrical conductivity, on the other hand can prevent the corrosion and aggregation of transition metal nanoparticles. Moreover, the abundant nitrogen types (pyridinic, Co-N<sup>x</sup> and grapitic nitrogen) in carbon skeleton can provide more active sites for oxygen adsorption. As a result, Co3ZnC/Co@NCNTs delivered excellent electrocatalytic activity of ORR and superior catalytic durability and methanol tolerance in alkaline electrolyte, exceeded commercial Pt/C electrocatalysts. The present work provides an effective strategy toward the construction of heterojunction to improve the electrocatalytic performance of non-precious metal electrocatalysts.

# **Acknowledgements**

This research was financially supported by the Opening Foundation of Key Laboratory of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (2019D04005), Natural Science Key Project of Department of Education of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XJEDU2018I004), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21771157 and U1703251), the Doctoral Innovation Project of Xinjiang University (XJUBSCX-201911) and the Graduate Innovation Project of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XJ2019G014).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **References**

- [1] a) M. K. Debe, *Nature* **2012**, *486*, 43-51; b) Z. W. She, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. B. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998; c) Y. P. Zhu, C. Guo, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2017**, *50*, 915-923; d) S. Gadipelli, T. Zhao, S. A. Shevlin, Z. Guo, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 1661-1667; e) S. Dey, B. Mondal, S. Chatterjee, A. Rana, S. K. Amanullah, A. Dey, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2017**,*1*, 0098.
- [2] a) S. K. Singh, V. Kashyap, N. Manna, S. N. Bhange, R. Soni, R. Boukherroub, S. Szunerits, S. Kurungot, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 6700-6710; b) M. L. Pegis, C. F. Wise, D. J. Martin, J. M. Mayer, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2340-2391; c) F. L Yu, Q. Wang, S. M. Choi, Y. Yin, Small **2019**, *15*, 1804201; d) L. Zhu, D. Zheng, Z. Wang, X. Zheng, P. Fang, J. Zhu, M. Yu, Y. Tong, X. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1805268.
- [3] a) K. Wang, et al, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *64*, 103954; b) X. R. Li, S. J. You, J. N. Du, Y. Dai, H. Chen, Z. Cai, N. Q. Ren, J. L. Zou, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 25853-25864, c) R. K. Bera, H. Park, R. Ryoo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 9988-9996.
- [4] a) V. Singh, A. Tiwari, T. C. Nagaiah, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 22545-22554; b) X. Lin; T. Zhang, C. Chu, Z. Li, R. Liu, P. Li, Y. Li, Z. Huang, Y. Ma, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 7581-7587.
- [5] a) Y. P. Li, Y. Liu, Q. Z. Qian, G. R. Wang, G. Q. Zhang, *Energy Storage Materials* **2020**, *28*, 27-36; b) Y. X. Lin, L. Yang, Y K. Zhang, H. L. Jiang, Z. J. Xiao, C. Q. Wu, G. B. Zhang, J. Jiang, L. Song, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1703623.
- [6] a) Y. N. Guo, et al., *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807134; b) F. Yu, H. Q. Zhou, Y. F. Huang, J. Y. Sun, F. Qin, J. M. Bao, W. A. Goddardiii, S. Chen, Z. F. Ren, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2551.
- [7] a) G. Y. Ren, X. Y. Lu, Y. N. Li, Y. Zhu, L. M. Dai, L. Jiang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 4118-4125; b) C. C. Yang, S. F. Zai, Y. T. Zhou, L. Du, Q. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1901949.
- [8] a) J. Y. Li, S. Mao, Y. Hou, L. C. Lei, C. Yuan, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 3292-3298; b) A. A. Eissa, S. G. Peera, N. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 16920-

- 16936; c) G. Y. Zhang, X. Liu, L. Wang, F. F. Sun, Y. Q. Yang, C. R. Tian, P. Yu, Q. W. Pan, H. G. Fu, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 19104-19112.
- [9] a) H. L. Lin, W. B. Zhang, Z. P. Shi, M. W. Che, X. Yu, Y. Tang, Q. S. Gao, *ChemSusChem* **2017**, *10*, 2597-2604; b) J. Yang, J. T. Hu, M. Y. Weng, R. Tan, L. L. Tian, J. L. Yang, J. Amine, J. X. Zheng, H. B. Chen, F. Pan, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 4587-4596.
- [10] a) J. Q. Shan, Y. Zheng, B. Y. Shi, K. Davey, S. Z. Qiao, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 2719-2730; b) M. Du, D. Song, A. M. Huang, R. X. Chen, D. Jin, K. Rui, C. Zhang, J. X. Zhu, W. Huang, *Angew.* **2019**, *131,* 5361-5365; *Chem.Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 5307-5311; c) T. Kwon, M. Jun, J. Joo, K. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 5090- 5110; d) D. X. Liu, B. Wang, H. G. Li, S. F. Huang, M. M. Liu, J. Wang, Q. J. Wang, J. J. Zhang, Y. F. Zhao, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *58*, 277-283; e) J. Zhang, Q. Y. Zhang, X. L. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806167; f) Q. H. Yang, C. C. Yang, C. H. Lin, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem.* **2019***, 131,* 3549-3553; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 3511-3515. [11] a) H. Luo, W. J. Jiang, S. Niu, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, L. P. Yuan, C. X. He, J. S. Hu, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2001171; b) J. Deng, D. H. Deng, X. H. Bao, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606967.
- [12] K. Wang, Y. L. Cao, Y. Z. Li, J. D. Hu, J. Xie, D. Z. Jia, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 16128-16137.
- [13] J. Meng, et al., *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8212-8221.
- [14] a) Q. Liang, Z. Chen, X. Chen, Y. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 20310-20316; b) N. L. Torad, M. Hu, S. Ishihara, H. Sukegawa, A. A. Belik, M. Imura, K. Ariga, Y. Sakka, Y. Yamauchi, *Small* **2014**, *10*, 2096-2107.
- [15] P. Yin, et al., *Angew. Chem.* **2016***, 128,* 10958-10963; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 10800-10805.
- [16] a) K. Im, D. Kim, J. H. Jang, J. Kim, S. J. Yoo, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2020**, *260*, 118192 (1-8); b) T. Wang, et al., *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1705048; c) R. Z. Chen, J. F. Yao, Q. F. Gu, S. Smeets, C. Baerlocher, H. X. Gu, D. R. Zhu, W. Morris, O. M. Yaghi, H. T. Wang, *Chem. Commun.* **2013**, *49*, 9500-9502; d) H. Wang, Y. Zhao, F. Cheng, Z. Tao, J. Chen, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2016**, *6*, 3443-3448; e) C. Guan, W. Zhao,

- Y. Hu, Z. Lai, X. Li, S. Sun, H. Zhang, A. K. Cheetham, J. Wang, *Nanoscale Horiz.* **2017**, *2*, 99-105.
- [17] a) Y. Li, Y. Zhao, H. Cheng, Y. Hu, G. Shi, L. Dai, L. Qu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 15-18; b) Q. Hu, G. Li, G. Li, X. Liu, B. Zhu, X. Chai, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, C. He, *Adv. Energ. Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1803867.
- [18] Y. Li, B. Jia, Y. Fan, K. Zhu, G. Li, C. Y. Su, *Adv. Energ. Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1702048. [19] a) Y. Z. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Y. Wu, Y. Xiong, Q. Xu, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 5010-5016; b) Y. Chen, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, D. Sun, X. Liu, L. Xu, Y. Tang, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806312.
- [20] a) L. Lin, Q. Zhu, A.W. Xu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 11027-11033; b) T. Wang, Z. X. Chen, Y. G. Chen, L. J. Yang, X. D. Yang, J. Y. Ye, H. P. Xia, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, *ACS Energ. Lett.* **2018**, *3*, 986-991; c) F. Tang, H. Lei, S. Wang, H. Wang, Z. Jin, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 17364-17370.
- [21] a) S. H. Liu, et al., *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706895; b) W. Zhang, X. F. Jiang, X. B. Wang, Y. V. Kaneti, Y. X. Chen, J. Liu, J. S. Jiang, Y. Yamauchi, M. Hu, *Angew. Chem.*  **2017***, 129,* 8555-8560; *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 8435-8440.