---
source: Wang 等 - 2022 - PVP-Assisted Iron-Doped ZIF-8 as an Efficient Fe-N-C Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalyst for Zinc-Air B.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 72.219s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:27:25.274930Z
---

### PVP-Assisted Iron-Doped ZIF-8 as an Efficient Fe-N-C Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalyst for Zinc-Air Batteries

To cite this article: Ruixiang Wang et al 2022 J. Electrochem. Soc. 169 060547

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/ac797f) for updates and enhancements.

### You may also like

- [Ferromagnetism in undoped ZnO grown](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/ab8c71) [by pulsed laser deposition](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/ab8c71) Waqar Azeem, Cai-Qin Luo, Chi Xu et al. -
- [Photodynamics of Ga](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/27/11/117802)Zn[–V](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/27/11/117802)Z[n](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/27/11/117802) [complex](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/27/11/117802) [defect in Ga-doped ZnO](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/27/11/117802) Ai-Hua Tang, , Zeng-Xia Mei et al. -
- [Ferromagnetic behavior of native point](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aba14a) [defects and vacancy-clusters in ZnO](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aba14a) [studied by first principle calculation](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aba14a) Cai-Qin Luo, Si-Cong Zhu, Chi-Hang Lam et al. -

# Journal of The Electrochemical Society, 2022 169 060547 1945-7111/2022/169(6)/060547/11/\$40.00 © 2022 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.

# PVP-Assisted Iron-Doped ZIF-8 as an Efficient Fe-N-C Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalyst for Zinc-Air Batteries

Ruixiang Wang,<sup>1</sup> Yanyang Wang,<sup>1</sup> Zheqin Chen,<sup>1</sup> XiaoCong Zhong,<sup>1</sup> Yongmin Xie,<sup>1</sup> Xiaobo Ji,<sup>2</sup> Jiaming Liu,<sup>1,z</sup> Shubiao Xia,<sup>3,z</sup> and Zhifeng Xu<sup>4,z</sup>

<sup>1</sup> Faculty of Materials Metallurgy and Chemistry, Jiangxi University of Science and Technology, Ganzhou Green Metallurgy and Process Strengthening Engineering Technology Research Center, Ganzhou 341000, People's Republic of China <sup>2</sup> College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Central South University, Changsha, 410083, People's Republic of China <sup>3</sup> College of Chemistry and Environmental Science, Qujing Normal University, Qujing 655011, People's Republic of China <sup>4</sup> Principal, Jiangxi College of Applied Technology, Ganzhou 341000, People's Republic of China

Transition metal/nitrogen carbon composite (M/NC) is a highly active oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) electrocatalyst, widely used in fuel cells and zinc-air batteries. Herein, a uniform and regular PVP-assisted iron-doped nano dodecahedron (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC) is prepared by a simple and efficient one-step in-solution reaction, followed by controlled in situ pyrolysis. The synthesized electrocatalyst showed excellent electrocatalytic ORR activity in an alkaline medium. Compared with standard 20% Pt/C electrocatalyst, ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC exhibited onset potential ( $E_{onset}$ ) (0.974 V vs 0.967 V), half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) (0.861 V vs 0.857 V) and the limiting current density ( $j_d$ ) was 6.373 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> vs 5.401 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, also better than the Fe doped ZIF-8 nitrogen composite (ZF/NC), PVP auxiliary ZIF-8 (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>/NC) and pure ZIF-8 nitrogen composite (Z/NC) synthesized by the same procedure. In addition, the zinc-air battery assembled with ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC also exhibits outstanding discharge capacity, with a specific capacity and energy density of 793.3 mAh g<sup>-1</sup> and 974.9 Wh kg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Zn</sub>, respectively, much higher than that of commercial 20% Pt/C-based zinc-air battery (719.8 mAh g<sup>-1</sup>, 842.6 Wh kg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Zn</sub>), indicating its great potential in practical energy conversion and storage. © 2022 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited. [DOI: 10.1149/1945-7111/ac797f] All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.

Manuscript submitted May 3, 2022; revised manuscript received June 9, 2022. Published June 29, 2022.

With the rapid advancement in science and technology, global energy demand is continuously growing and traditional energy production methods are no longer sufficient to fulfill the needs of the entire society. At the same time, the excessive use of traditional energy sources has also increased global environmental pollution. Therefore, researchers are currently focusing on the development of highly efficient and clean energy production methods including metal-air batteries, fuel cells, and other renewable energy storage and conversion devices. <sup>1,2</sup> Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), as the core reaction in these devices, requires highly efficient electrocatalysts to accelerate its inherently slow reaction kinetics. <sup>3</sup> Among the current commercial catalysts, Pt/C noble metals have high efficiency, but they are expensive. <sup>4,5</sup> Therefore, the development of low-cost and high-efficiency ORR electrocatalysts is essential for the development of new energy devices. <sup>6</sup>

In recent years, transition metal/nitrogen-carbon composite materials (M/NC) have demonstrated higher activity and promising stability as potential substitutes of commercial Pt/C.<sup>7-10</sup> Studies have shown that nitrogen doping can manipulate the electronic properties of the carbon skeleton by inducing charge delocalization and enriching the density of free carriers, thus effectively improving the electrocatalytic performance of the ORR active center. 11 In addition, the inherent electrocatalytic activity of NC catalysts is closely related to the surface nitrogen state. Graphite N determines the limiting current density, and pyridinic N converts the dominant reaction route from 2e<sup>-</sup> to 4e<sup>-</sup>, increasing the initial potential. <sup>12</sup> In addition, the channel properties of the carbon skeleton control the exposure degree of active sites and mass transfer, enhancing the electrocatalytic activity. Therefore, the electrochemical properties of transition metals are improved by dispersing them in a porous carbon carrier. Presently, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have attracted extensive attention for the construction of efficient ORR electrocatalysts. MOFs with different transition metal centers such as Fe, <sup>13–16</sup> Cu, <sup>17,18</sup> Ni, <sup>19</sup> Co, <sup>20</sup> and mixed bimetals <sup>10,21</sup> have been extensively used in this field. MOFs are the preferred choice because of their three-dimensional ordered structure composed of bridging metals and organic ligands, high specific surface area, tunable porosity, and abundant metal nitrogen coordination sites.<sup>22</sup> However, MOFs have poor thermal stability, 25,26 so they collapse in high-temperature pyrolysis, and their morphology changes, leading to poor electrocatalytic performance.

Here, a one-step solution reaction and controlled in situ pyrolysis strategy are used to successfully synthesize PVP-assisted Fe-doped nitrogen-rich nano-dodecahedron (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC) by adjusting the PVP content and Fe salt concentration (Fig. 1). PVP is used as a modifier that improves the pyrolysis of the catalyst and facilitates the formation of a complete dodecahedron structure. In addition, it also plays multiple roles in improving the nitrogen content and forming the PVP//ZIF carbon interface, improving the formation of the electrocatalytic active site Fe-N-C. The prepared ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC catalyst exhibits homogeneous particle size (100 nm), high specific surface area (202.47 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), uniform mesoporous(~4.01 and 16.31 nm) and microporous (~1.74 nm) coexistence synergistic structure, better electrocatalytic activity than the commercial 20% Pt/C catalyst, admirable stability, and methanol resistance. Zinc-air battery assembled with ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC cathode also performed very well.

#### **Experimental**

Materials.—2-methylimidazole was purchased from Aladdin and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP-K30, M<sub>W</sub> 44,000-54,000) was purchased from Macklin. Zinc nitrate hexahydrate (Zn(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O) and iron acetylacetonate( $Fe(C_5H_7O_2)_3$ ) were purchased from Aladdin. Methanol, absolute ethanol, and potassium hydroxide (KOH) were acquired from China Sinopharm Chemical Agent Co., Ltd. Industrial 20% Pt/C (Johnson Matthey, HISPEC3000) was purchased from China Suzhou Yilongsheng Energy Technology Co., Ltd. 5 wt% Nafion solution (Dupont) was attained from China Suzhou Shengernuo Technology Co., Ltd. All chemicals reagents can be used directly without subsequent treatment. Glassy carbon electrode (GCE, diameter 5 mm), platinum wire electrode, Ag-AgCl electrode, small zinc-air battery test device, and related materials were acquired from Tianjin Aida Heng sheng Technology Development Co., Ltd Rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) was obtained from the American Pine Company. Ultra-pure (99.999%) nitrogen and oxygen were purchased from Ganzhou Jianli Gas Co.,

Electrocatalysts preparation.— PVP-assisted synthesis of iron-doped ZIF-8 (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC).—Weigh and dissolve 1.071 g (3.6 mmol) zinc nitrate hexahydrate (Zn(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O) in 50 ml methanol

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Schematic diagram of catalyst synthesis.

solution labeled as Cup A; 2.3571 g (28.71 mmol) of 2-methylimidazole, 0.1071 g (0.1 times the mass of zinc salt) polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, K30,  $M_{\rm W}=44000{-}54000)$ , and 1.2714 g (3.6 mmol) of iron acetylacetonate were dissolved in another 50 ml methanol and labeled as Cup B. After dissolving the salts in two cups to form clear solutions, the solution in cup B was slowly dripped into cup A with a rubber-tip dropper and continuously stirred for 24 h at room temperature. The obtained product was centrifuged at 10000 rpm for 5 min, washed with methanol several times, and dried in a vacuum oven at 60 °C. Finally, the dried powder was collected, ground, and labeled as  $ZP_{0.1}F$ .

The dried sample powder was placed in the center of the corundum ark, closed the lid, and left a small seam. Then the sample was placed in the tube furnace under nitrogen ( $N_2$ ) flow and heated at 800 °C at a heating rate of 2 °C min<sup>-1</sup> for 3 h. The obtained black powder was cooled to room temperature, ground, and labeled as  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ .

In addition, different samples (ZP<sub>x</sub>F<sub>y</sub>/NC) were prepared by adjusting the K value of PVP, doping amount of PVP, and the doping amount of Fe salt.

Synthesis of pure ZIF-8 (Z/NC), iron-containing ZIF-8 (ZF/NC) and PVP-assisted ZIF-8 ( $ZP_{0.1}/NC$ ).—The synthesis steps of pure ZIF-8 (Z/NC), iron-containing ZIF-8 (ZF/NC) and PVP-assisted ZIF-8 (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>/NC) were similar to those of PVP-assisted iron-containing ZIF-8 (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC). For pure ZIF-8 only zinc salt and 2-methylimidazole were used, while iron-containing ZIF-8 required zinc salt, 2-methylimidazole, and iron acetylacetonate. PVP-assisted ZIF-8 (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>/NC) does not require iron acetylacetonate.

**Electrochemical measurement.**—5 mg of electrocatalyst powder was dispersed in the solution containing 20  $\mu$ l (5 wt%) Nafion solution, 490  $\mu$ l deionized water, and 490  $\mu$ l isopropanol, and stirred ultrasonically for 60 min to prepare a uniform electrocatalyst ink. Next, 15  $\mu$ l of electrocatalyst ink (382  $\mu$ g cm<sup>-2</sup>) was deposited on a glassy carbon electrode at room temperature. For comparison, an industrial Pt/C working electrode was prepared using a similar procedure. The electrochemical performance tests were performed using rotating disk electrode (RDE) on AutoLab electrochemical workstation or Chenhua electrochemical workstation (CHI 760E), with 0.1 M KOH solution as an electrolyte, glass carbon electrode (GCE) coated with electrocatalyst as working electrode, platinum wire and Ag/AgCl electrode as a counter electrode and a reference

<span id="page-2-1"></span>electrode, severally. According to Eq. 1, all potentials were converted to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale:

$$E(vs RHE) = E(vs Ag/AgCl) + 0.964 V$$
 [1]

In order to activate the electrode to make the test data representative, the working electrode coated with catalyst was pretreated for at least 30 cycles at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> between 1.164 V and 0.164 V (vs RHE) before the electrochemical test. The cyclic voltammograms (CVs) tests curve for ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC was obtained in 0.1 M KOH solution saturated with N<sub>2</sub> or O<sub>2</sub>. With different rotating speeds ranging from 400-2500 rpm, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves for ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC, ZF/ NC, ZP<sub>0.1</sub>/NC, Z/NC, and Pt/C from 1.164 V to 0.164 V (vs RHE) were acquired at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. In this paper, the limiting current density (j<sub>d</sub>) selects the value when the current density in the diffusion control zone reaches a stable value; onset potential (E<sub>onset</sub>) chooses the corresponding potential value when the limiting density is 5%; half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  selects the corresponding potential value when the limiting density is half. Within the same voltage range and a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, 4000 CV cycles were performed. The stability of the electrocatalyst was characterized by comparing the performance differences in LSV curves before and after the cycle at 1600 rpm and 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. To evaluate the methanol resistance of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC, after the working electrode was polarized for 300 s at 0.5 V (vs RHE), 3 ml of methanol was added to the electrolyte, and the current change was monitored for surplus 700 s.

<span id="page-2-2"></span>To test the kinetics in the catalytic reaction, the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) coated with catalyst ink was used as the working electrode. Set the ring potential as 1.164 V (vs RHE) and measured and collected the disk current and ring current between the potential range of 1.164 V to 0.164 V (vs RHE) at 1600 rpm and  $10 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$ . Then, according to the measured data, the electron transfer number (*n*) and hydrogen peroxide yield ( $H_2O_2\%$ ) was calculated by Eqs. 2 and  $3:^{27}$ 

$$n = 4 \frac{I_d}{I_d + \frac{I_r}{N}}$$
 [2]

<span id="page-2-3"></span>
$$H_2O_2\% = 200 \frac{\frac{I_r}{N}}{I_d + \frac{I_r}{N}}$$
 [3]

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** The first row: the SEM images of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  doped with PVP with different K values (a) K30; (b) K60; (c) K90. The second row: the SEM images of  $ZP_xF/NC$  doped with different quality PVP (K30), the mass ratio m(PVP):  $m(Zn^{2+})$  is (a)0; (b)0.1; (c)1. The third row: the SEM images of  $ZP_{0.1}F_y/NC$  doped with different molar amounts of Fe salts,  $n(Fe^{3+})$ : $n(Zn^{2+})$  are (a)0; (b)1; (c)2; (d)3. The fourth row: the SEM images of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  at different pyrolysis temperatures: (a) 700; (b) 800; (c) 900 °C.

where  $I_d$  represents the disk current,  $I_r$  is the ring current, and N is the current collecting efficiency of the RRDE, which is generally 0.37.

Characterization of catalysts.—Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM, MLA650F, USA) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM, TECNAI G2-20, FEI, USA) were used to study the micromorphology and structure of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC and other samples. X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra and phase structure analysis were obtained using an X-ray Diffractometer (MiniFlex600-C, Japan) with Cu-K $\alpha$  ( $\lambda = 1.5406 \,\text{Å}$ ) in a scan range of 5°–80°. Raman spectra were obtained by He-Ne laser (633 nm) using a Raman Microscope (in Via, Rainey, UK). The infrared spectrum was obtained by ALPHA II Fourier transform infrared spectrometer. The thermogravimetric results were obtained by the thermogravimetric analyzer (TG/DTA6300). The adsorption-desorption isotherms were obtained using an ASAP 2020 V4.00, USA instrument under a nitrogen (77 K) atmosphere. Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method was used to get the specific surface area data, and Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) model was used to attain the pore size distribution. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) data were collected using a monochromatic aluminum source (ESCALAB 250xi, USA). The Fe content was determined by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES, Plasma1000).

Zinc-air battery assembly and performance evaluation.—A zinc-air battery was assembled with polished zinc plate as anode, hydrophobic carbon cloth with ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC catalyst loading of 1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> as cathode, and 6 M KOH+0.2 M Zn(CH<sub>3</sub>COO)<sub>2</sub> alkaline solution as an electrolyte solution. Under the same conditions, a control study was conducted with commercial 20% Pt/C as the cathode. The relevant performances of the zinc-air batteries were tested on an electrochemical workstation (CHI 760E, Shanghai Chenhua instrument company) and a LAND battery test system (BTI-40, Wuhan, China). Open-circuit voltage (also measured directly with a multimeter), polarization curve, power density, and constant current discharge curve under different current densities (5, 10, 20, and 40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) were measured. Its practicability in daily life was verified by using two batteries assembled by ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC to light a small light-emitting diode (LED) bulbs.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Comparison of electrochemical LSV polarization properties of experimental samples under single factor control (a) PVP molecular weight; (b) PVP doping content (x represents m(PVP):  $m(Zn^{2+})$ ); (c) Fe doping content (y represents  $n(Fe^{3+})$ : $n(Zn^{2+})$ ); (d) Pyrolysis temperature.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Morphology control and performance optimization.—In order to make the final electrocatalytic performance better, the morphology of the catalyst was first controlled by the control variable method, as shown in Fig. 2. In the synthesis reaction, the K value and doping content of PVP play a significant role in the morphology of  $\mathbb{ZP}_{x}F_{y}$  (Fig. 2 row 1 and 2). The larger K value results in a more viscous catalyst sample generated by pyrolysis, leading to worse morphology retention and serious distortion. The influence of the doping amount of PVP on the catalyst is shown in the second row of Fig. 2, the samples without PVP are obviously bonded after pyrolysis. When the doping amount (the mass ratio m (PVP): m (Zn<sup>2+</sup>)) is 0.1, the morphology remained well, indicate PVP plays a key role in adjusting the morphology and preventing adhesion during pyrolysis, but when the mass ratio increases to 1, morphology changes, indicating that a thick collapsed carbon layer is formed on the surface layer of Fe doped ZIF-8. The effect of Fe content doping on the catalyst is also investigated and shown in Fig. 2, row 3. The samples without Fe doping show round particles, and the morphology and particle size change considerably with the increase in Fe content. When n (Fe<sup>3+</sup>): n (Zn<sup>2+</sup>) is 1, the morphology is uniform. When the ratio increases to 2, the particle size expands to 400 nm, and the uniformity becomes poor. When it reaches 3, obvious carbon nanotubes appear in the pyrolysis products. In addition, the effect of pyrolysis temperature on the catalyst morphology was also studied, as shown in the fourth row of Fig. 2, the image shows that the effect of pyrolysis temperature is not obvious.

A single morphology characterization result cannot directly determine and select the best sample in the experimental range. Therefore, a simple electrocatalytic performance comparison and screening of the prepared samples is carried out through the LSV curves, as shown in Fig. 3. Figure 3a shows that as the molecular weight K value of PVP gradually increases, the electrocatalytic performance gradually deteriorates, which is corroborated by the SEM morphology gradually becoming viscous; Fig. 3b indicates that as the mass ratio of PVP (K30) to zinc salt increases from 0 to 0.1 and then to 1, the electrocatalytic performance shows a trend of increasing first and then decreasing, and the best performance is when  $m(PVP):m(Zn^{2+})=0.1$ ; Fig. 3c exhibits that in the process of uniformly increasing the molar ratio from 0 to 3, the best electrocatalytic performance appears at  $n(\text{Fe}^{3+}):n(\text{Zn}^{2+})=1$ ; Fig. 3d shows that the catalytic effect is the best when the pyrolysis temperature is 800 °C. Through single-factor performance comparison, the best sample within the experimental range was finally determined to be the pyrolysis product ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC at 800 °C.

**Conventional characterization.**—Figure 4a shows that the  $ZP_{0.1}F$  precursor has a dodecahedral morphology with good dispersion and uniform size. The enlarged illustration in Fig. 4a indicates a smooth surface and a diameter of 150 nm. After pyrolysis, the resulting  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  retains the dodecahedral shape (Fig. 4b), but a

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. SEM images of (a) ZP0.1F and (b)ZP0.1F/NC, (c)–(h) TEM-EDS element mapping of ZP0.1F/NC, (i), (j) HRTEM image of ZP0.1F/NC.

large number of protrusions are observed on the surface, and the diameter is reduced to 100 nm, attributed to thermally induced structural shrinkage.[28](#page-11-22) Figures [4c](#page-5-0)–[4h](#page-5-0) show the distribution of C, N, O, Fe, and Zn elements in the catalyst (ZP0.1F/NC). The uniform distribution of C and N is observed in the samples, confirming the formation of N-doped carbon. O element is also detected in ZP0.1F/NC, indicating the oxidation of the sample. In addition, Fe and Zn elements are also evenly distributed. An appropriate Fe content facilitates the catalytic effect of Fe-N-C sites. The uniformly distributed Zn element can disperse the Fe metal element (with an important catalytic effect), prevent agglomeration, and optimize the electrocatalytic effect. The HRTEM image (Figs. [4i](#page-5-0) and [4j](#page-5-0)) display that ZP0.1F/NC exhibits a regular dodecahedral morphology and the overall monodispersity is good.

The upper part of Fig. [5a](#page-6-0) is the XRD pattern of the catalyst precursor. It can be seen that the addition of Fe element and PVP

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** (a) XRD patterns of synthesized catalysts; (b) Comparison of Raman spectra of ZF/NC and ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC; (c) ZIF-8, PVP, ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F thermogravimetric comparison chart; (d) Infrared spectrum comparison chart of ZIF-8, PVP, ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F; (e) BET curves, (f) BJH curves of ZF/NC and ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC.

structure auxiliary agent does not affect the crystal phase structure of ZIF-8. This further illustrates that the Fe element is adsorbed in the catalyst sample. The XRD pattern of the product after the pyrolysis of the corresponding catalyst sample shows two steamed bread peaks at 26° and 43°, corresponding to the (002) and (100) unique crystal planes of graphite carbon, separately. The Raman spectra of the two catalysts ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC and ZF/NC are shown in Fig. 5b. The D-band representing disordered sp<sup>3</sup> carbon and the G-band corresponding to graphite sp<sup>2</sup> carbon, appear at 1349 cm<sup>-1</sup> and 1590 cm<sup>-1</sup>, individually.<sup>29</sup> Compared with ZF/NC, the  $I_d/I_g$  of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  is lower (1.17 < 1.23), indicating its higher graphitization degree. It is inferred that ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC exhibits greater electronic conductivity. To study the effect of PVP on the pyrolysis behavior of ZIF-8, the samples are tested by thermogravimetry (TG) in an N<sub>2</sub> environment. As shown in Fig. 5c, pure PVP decomposes rapidly around 450 °C, while ZIF-8 and Fe-doped ZIF-8/PVP mixture (ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F) decomposes in the range of 550 °C  $\sim$  600 °C. The weight loss rate of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F is 15.47% compared with 19.27% of ZIF-8. This weight loss difference is attributed to the formation of a stable PVP-derived carbon//ZIF-8 interface structure. The carbon layer is rich in C=O groups and has a strong interaction with ZIF. $^{30}$  The presence of C=O groups in ZP $_{0.1}$ F is revealed by the infrared spectrum (Fig. 5d). In addition, the transmittance of C=O groups in ZP $_{0.1}$ F is lower, indicating their higher abundance in the sample.

BET results show that  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  and ZF/NC have specific surface areas of 202.47 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> and 178.56 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Fig. 5e). The specific surface area of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  is slightly larger, conducive to the exposure of active sites of the catalyst. The porous structures of ZF/NC and  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  are further investigated by  $N_2$  adsorption-desorption isotherms. Both samples display a typical IV isotherm, indicating their mesoporous structure. BJH curves show that compared with ZF/NC, which is mainly mesoporous,  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  forms a uniform microporous ( $\sim$ 1.74 nm) and mesoporous structure ( $\sim$ 4.01 nm and 16.31 nm) at the same time, indicating that the addition of PVP can optimize the electrocatalytic performance through the formation of microporous and mesoporous cooperative coexistence structures (Fig. 5f).

The chemical state of the elements in the catalyst surface is identified by XPS measurements. The survey spectrum (Fig. 6a) shows the coexistence of C, N, O, Fe, and Zn in ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 6. (a) survey, (b) C 1 s, (c) Zn 2p, (d) Fe 2p, (e) N 1 s of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC and (f) N 1 s of ZF/NC high-resolution XPS spectrum.

<span id="page-7-1"></span>Table I. The content of each element in different electrocatalysts.

| Element content/(at%)           |                |                |               |              |              |  |  |
|---------------------------------|----------------|----------------|---------------|--------------|--------------|--|--|
| Samples                         | C              | N              | O             | Zn           | Fe           |  |  |
| ZF/NC<br>ZP <sub>0.1</sub> F/NC | 75.79<br>73.56 | 11.03<br>12.05 | 9.09<br>11.39 | 3.34<br>2.39 | 0.75<br>0.61 |  |  |

Calculate the contents of each element in different electrocatalysts and present them in Table I. Compared with ZF/NC electrocatalyst, the N content in ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC is further increased from 11.03 at% to 12.05 at%, indicating that the addition of PVP increases the nitrogen content in the catalyst. XPS high-resolution spectra, derived from C, Zn, Fe, N elements of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC and N elements of ZF/NC, are shown in Figs. 6b–6f, respectively. The high-resolution C 1s spectrum (Fig. 6b) reveals three types of carbon functional groups:

C=C (284.63 eV), C=N (285.63 eV), and C-N (287.93 eV). The presence of C-N functional groups indicates that N is successfully doped in carbon dodecahedron. As shown in Fig. 6c, the high-resolution spectrum of Zn 2p is divided into  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$ , with peaks at 1021.08 eV and 1044.13 eV, respectively. The spectrum of Fe 2p shows a small peak at 709.13 eV, which cannot be fitted separately, indicating that the Fe content in the catalyst is very low, and XPS cannot detect it accurately (Fig. 6d). Therefore, ICP-AES is used to detect the trace Fe content, which is 0.574 wt%. The above tests further prove that Fe and N heteroatoms are successfully doped in the carbon skeleton.

The N 1s spectrum (Fig. 6e) is divided into three peaks: pyridinic N (probably including Fe-N) (398.53 eV), pyrrole N (400.03 eV), and graphite N (401.43 eV), respectively. Such peak splitting fitting is because the difference in binding energy between pyridine N and Fe-N is very small, and the peak at 398.53 eV may also include the contribution from N bound to the Fe (Fe-N). S1-33 Some literature shows that pyridinic N (probably including Fe-N) in the sample

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Table II. The atom percentage of various N species in different electrocatalysts.

| Samples                | Pyridinic | Pyrrolic | Graphitic |
|------------------------|-----------|----------|-----------|
|                        | N         | N        | N         |
| ZF/NC                  | 21.46%    | 43.81%   | 34.73%    |
| ZP <sub>0.1</sub> F/NC | 47.05%    | 25.60%   | 27.35%    |

exists as an effective active site of ORR.  $^{12,34-36}$  Besides, according to the analysis of N I s high-resolution spectra of the two electrocatalysts (Figs. 6e and 6f), Table II shows the percentages of N in ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC and ZF/NC. Among them, pyrrole N accounts for a large proportion in ZF/NC catalyst, while pyridinic N (including Fe-N) dominates in ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC catalyst, up to 47.05%. These results successfully explain the reason for the enhanced electrochemical performance of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC than ZF/NC.

*ORR performance.*—Figure 7a displays the CV curve obtained by electrocatalyst  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  in  $N_2$  or  $O_2$  saturated KOH solution. Compared with  $N_2$  saturated electrolyte, an obvious cathode peak at 0.85 V (vs RHE) is observed in  $O_2$  saturated electrolyte, indicating that ORR reaction is smoothly carried out by  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ . Figure 7b shows the LSV curves of the best sample  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  at different rotational speeds. The performance comparison with other electrocatalytic samples at a specific speed (1600 rpm) is shown in Fig. 7c. In order to compare the electrochemical performance of the samples more clearly, the performance comparison histogram is shown in Fig. 7d. Among them, the half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  and diffusion-limited current density  $(j_d)$  of Z/NC and  $ZP_{0.1}/NC$  are 0.699 V, 0.765 V and 3.533 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 4.383 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. It shows that the addition of PVP is helpful to improve the performance. Whereas, the  $E_{1/2}$  and  $j_d$  of ZF/NC are 0.843 V and 5.868 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. It can be observed that the PVP-assisted iron-doped

ZIF-8 sample ( $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ ) has the highest ORR activity. Compared with the standard commercial Pt/C, the onset potential ( $E_{onset}$ ) (0.974 V vs 0.967 V),  $E_{1/2}$  is 0.861 V vs 0.857 V and  $j_d$  is 6.373 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> vs 5.401 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

As shown in Fig. 8a, the Tafel slope of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  is 80.83 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, lower than Pt/C (82.17 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that the prepared catalyst  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  displays better reaction kinetics. In addition, LSV curves at different speeds are monitored on a rotating ring disk electrode coated with  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  (Fig. 8b). Using the obtained disk current and ring current data, the number of transferred electrons (n) and hydrogen peroxide yield ( $H_2O_2\%$ ) by  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  electrocatalyst is calculated by a specific formula and shown in Fig. 8c. It can be seen that in the range of 0.2–1 V (vs RHE), the average n for  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  is 3.95, and the average  $H_2O_2\%$  is 2.61%, indicating that the ORR reaction on  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  is carried out in an excellent four-electron pathway, exhibits high selectivity and low  $H_2O_2$  yield, and show promising electrocatalytic activity.

To assess the continuous stability of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  electrocatalyst, it is subjected to 4000 CV cycles in a specific potential interval, and its stability is tested by comparing the LSV curve before and after the cycle (Fig. 8d). It can be seen that after 4000 CV cycles,  $E_{1/2}$  decreases by only 8 mV, indicating excellent stability of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ . In addition, the excellent stability of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  was re-characterized by I-t (Fig. 8e), after 10000 s of chronoamperometry,  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  remains at 91% of the initial current, which is better than Pt/C.

Considering the practical application, the methanol tolerance of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC is investigated by chronoamperometry. As shown in Fig. 8f, when 3 ml methanol is added to the electrolyte, ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC electrode returns to stability only after a slight fluctuation. In contrast, the current density of commercial standard Pt/C Electrode first decreases rapidly and then rises slowly. After polarizing the electrolyte containing methanol for 700 s, the current density of the ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC electrode remains at 95.14%, much higher than that of Pt/C (76.95%), indicating its high methanol tolerance. In addition, an interesting phenomenon is observed during the test.

<span id="page-8-1"></span>**Figure 7.** (a) CV curve of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC; (b) LSV polarization curves of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC at different rotating rates; (c) Comparison of LSV curves of different samples at 1600 rpm; (d) Performance comparison bar chart.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 8.** (a) Diverse electrocatalysts's Tafel slope; (b) Rotating ring disk data of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ : disk current density and ring density current; (c) the number of electrons transferred n and  $H_2O_2\%$  yield of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ ; Stability test (d) LSV curves of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  received before and after 4000 CV cycles; (e) I-t curves of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  and 20% Pt/C catalysts in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte saturated with  $O_2$ ; (f)  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  and 20% Pt/C time vs current response after adding 3 ml methanol to  $O_2$  saturated 0.1 M KOH solution.

When 3 ml methanol is injected, abundant bubbles appear in the electrolyte. Consulting the literature, it is found that this may be related to the current jump. <sup>37,38</sup>

The morphology and element distribution of the  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  sample after a series of long-term electrochemical tests on the glassy carbon electrode were characterized by SEM and SEM-EDS energy spectroscopy (Fig. 9). It can be seen that the  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  after the completion of service still maintains a relatively good dodecahedron morphology. The comparison of element content of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  catalyst before and after service measured by SEM-EDS spectrum is summarized in Table III. The results show that the content of O element has increased significantly after service, indicating that the oxygen reduction reaction has successfully occurred on the catalyst sample.

These results clearly show that ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC shows excellent ORR performance. Reasons can be summarized as follows: Firstly, compared with ZF/NC, ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC has a higher N content (12.05 at%) by PVP-assisted pyrolysis on the basis of the original

N content of ZIF-8, and among them , the percentage of pyridine N (including Fe-N) with electrocatalytic activity even reached 47.05%. Studies have shown that pyridinic N improves the electron cloud density by promoting the transfer of p-electrons to the aromatic  $\pi$  system, thereby optimizing the electrocatalytic activity.  $^{27}$  Secondly, the doping of the Fe element further adjusts the charge distribution in the carbon matrix, forming Fe-N-C active sites. The full exposure of active sites and effective chemical adsorption of reactants significantly improve the activity of the electrocatalyst.  $^{39}$  Thirdly, the PVP-derived carbon//ZIF-8 interface structure formed by final pyrolysis ensures the stability of sample morphology. Fourthly, ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC forms a coexistent structure of micropores and mesopores under the auxiliary pyrolysis of PVP, with a larger specific surface area (202.47 m $^2$  g $^{-1}$ ), which is conducive to exposing more active sites and promoting mass transfer.  $^{40}$ 

**Performance of the zinc-air battery.**—To further examine the practical application of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  as a new energy electrocatalysis

<span id="page-10-0"></span>Figure 9. (a) SEM morphology of ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC after electrochemical service; (b) SEM-EDS element spectrum before service; (c) SEM-EDS element spectrum after service.

<span id="page-10-1"></span>Figure 10. Performance of zinc-air battery assembled by  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  or 20% Pt/C: (a) open-circuit voltage, (b) polarization and power density curves, (c) constant current discharge curve at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (illustration: photo of two series  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ -based zinc-air batteries lighting LEDs), and (d) constant current discharge curves at different current densities.

material,  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  and commercial Pt/C are tested as air cathodes catalyst in zinc-air batteries. Both electrochemical workstation and multimeter (Fig. 10a) show that the open-circuit voltage of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ -based zinc-air battery is higher than that of commercial Pt/C-based zinc-air battery (1.463 V vs 1.445 V). The polarization curve and corresponding power density of the zinc-air batteries are

shown in Fig. 10b. Compared with the commercial Pt/C cathode zinc-air battery (187 mW cm $^{-2}$  at 278.4 mA cm $^{-2}$ ), the zinc-air battery assembled with ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC has an excellent performance with a maximum power density of 211.6 mW cm $^{-2}$  at 278.8 mA cm $^{-2}$ . The discharge curve (Fig. 10c) shows that the specific capacity and energy density of ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC based zinc-air

<span id="page-11-31"></span>Table III. Comparison of SEM-EDS element content of  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  before and after electrochemical service.

| Element              | C     | N    | О     | Fe   | Zn   |
|----------------------|-------|------|-------|------|------|
| wt% (before service) | 81.77 | 2.06 | 11.67 | 0.38 | 4.11 |
| wt% (after service)  | 73 24 | 4 64 | 194   | 0.33 | 24   |

battery at  $10 \, \text{mA cm}^{-2}$  is  $793.3 \, \text{mAh g}^{-1}$  and  $974.9 \, \text{Wh kg}_{Zn}^{-1}$ , much higher than that of commercial Pt/C-based zinc-air battery (719.8 mAh g $^{-1}$ , 842.6 Wh kg $^{-1}_{Zn}$ ). Figure 10c illustration shows that two ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC-based zinc-air batteries used in series can easily light up the LED. This operation proves the practicability of the prepared electrocatalyst. To further estimate the rate performance of the ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC-based zinc-air battery, the constant current discharge curve is recorded at different current densities (Fig. 10d). The voltage of ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC-based zinc-air battery gradually decreases with the increase of current density, but the voltage drop trend is smaller than that of standard commercial Pt/C at different current densities, and the performance is excellent. Finally, when ZP $_{0.1}$ F/NC is used as an ORR electrocatalyst in zinc-air batteries, it shows an excellent discharge performance and excellent rate performance, indicating its great application potential in zinc-air batteries.

#### Conclusions

Through a one-step solution reaction followed by in situ pyrolysis, PVP-assisted Fe-doped nitrogen-rich nanododecahedrons ( $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$ ) were successfully synthesized, which exhibited excellent performance as ORR electrocatalysts in Zn-air batteries, and finally the main conclusions are as follows:

- (1) The doping of the auxiliary PVP and Fe salts has a key influence on the morphology and structure of the catalyst. When the doping amount of PVP is 0.1 of the mass of the zinc salt and the molar ratio of the iron salt and the zinc salt is the same, the pyrolysis temperature is 800 °C, a dodecahedron ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC with uniform size (100 nm) and morphology was formed.
- (2) The doping of Fe salt helps to form a stable Fe-N structure by pyrolysis, and the addition of PVP adjuvant effectively promotes the formation of a larger specific surface area (202.47 m² g⁻¹) and a uniform micro- and mesoporous coexistence structure. The mass transfer efficiency is optimized while exposing more active centers, thereby enhancing the electrocatalytic performance. In addition, the addition of the auxiliary PVP also played a role in increasing nitrogen: the total amount of nitrogen doping in ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC was as high as 12.05 at%, of which 47.05% was catalytically active pyridine N (including Fe-N), which was conducive to the formation of stable Fe-N structure and used as the active center of ORR.
- (3) The as-synthesized  $ZP_{0.1}F/NC$  exhibited excellent ORR electrocatalytic activity:  $E_{1/2}=0.861~V,~j_d=6.373~mA~cm^{-2}$ , strong stability with a negative shift of 8 mV after 4000 CV cycling and strong methanol tolerance.
- (4) ZP<sub>0.1</sub>F/NC was applied to a zinc-air battery, the open circuit voltage was 1.463 V, the maximum power density was 211.6 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, the specific capacity was 793.3 mAh g<sup>-1</sup>, and the energy density was 974.9 Wh kg<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup>, outperforms commercial Pt/C-based zinc-air batteries.

#### Achnowledgemnts

Funded by Distinguished Professor Program of Jinggang Scholars in institutions of higher learning, Jiangxi Province. Jiangxi postgraduate innovation special fund project YC2020-S440.

#### ORCID

Jiaming Liu https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4259-4789

#### References

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>1. Z.-L. Wang, D. Xu, J.-J. Xu, and X.-B. Zhang, Chem. Soc. Rev., 43, 7746 (2014).
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>2. W. Zhang, W. Lai, and R. Cao, Chem. Rev., 117, 3717 (2017).
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>3. J. Liu, Y. Zhu, F. Du, and L. Jiang, *J. Electrochem. Soc.*, **166**, F935 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>4. Z. Zhang et al., Adv. Energy Mater., 10, 2002896 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>R. Paul, F. Du, L. Dai, Y. Ding, Z. L. Wang, F. Wei, and A. Roy, *Adv. Mater.*, 31, 1805598 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-5"></span> L. Chai, L. Zhang, X. Wang, Z. Hu, Y. Xu, T.-T. Li, Y. Hu, J. Qian, and S. Huang, *Carbon*, 158, 719 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>7. W. Yang, Y. Zhang, X. Liu, L. Chen, M. Liu, and J. Jia, *Carbon*, 147, 83 (2019).
- L. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Liu, L. Long, S. Wang, W. Yang, and J. Jia, *Chem. Commun.*, 55, 5651 (2019).
- J. Zhu, Y. Huang, W. Mei, C. Zhao, C. Zhang, J. Zhang, I. S. Amiinu, and S. Mu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.*, 58, 3859 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-7"></span> Z. Wang, H. Jin, T. Meng, K. Liao, W. Meng, J. Yang, D. He, Y. Xiong, and S. Mu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 28, 1802596 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-8"></span>11. Y. Wang, Y. Shao, D. W. Matson, J. Li, and Y. Lin, ACS Nano, 4, 1790 (2010).
- <span id="page-11-9"></span> L. Lai, J. R. Potts, D. Zhan, L. Wang, C. K. Poh, C. Tang, H. Gong, Z. Shen, J. Lin, and R. S. Ruoff, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 5, 7936 (2012).
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>13. X. Wang et al., Nano Energy, 25, 110 (2016).
- 14. Z. Zhu et al., Adv. Mater., 32, 2004670 (2020).
- 15. M. Xiao et al., ACS Catal., 8, 2824 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-11"></span> X. Wang, L. Yu, B. Y. Guan, S. Song, and X. W. D. Lou, Adv. Mater., 30, 1801211 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-12"></span> H. Yu, A. Fisher, D. Cheng, and D. Cao, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 8, 21431 (2016).
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>L. Yang, J. Mi, H. Wang, J. Liang, X. Yang, Y. Feng, P. Zhang, and L. Liu, *Chem. Cat. Chem.* 12, 584 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-14"></span> H. Tang, S. Cai, S. Xie, Z. Wang, Y. Tong, M. Pan, and X. Lu, Adv. Sci., 3, 1500265 (2016).
- <span id="page-11-15"></span>X. Wang, X. Fan, H. Lin, H. Fu, T. Wang, J. Zheng, and X. Li, RSC Adv., 6, 37965 (2016).
- <span id="page-11-16"></span>Y.-Z. Chen, C. Wang, Z.-Y. Wu, Y. Xiong, Q. Xu, S.-H. Yu, and H.-L. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.*, 27, 5010 (2015).
   M. King, Y. Coo, P. Liu, T. Zhang, and J. Zhang, J. Flortenskyn, Soc. 162, 11450.
- <span id="page-11-17"></span>M. Jiang, X. Cao, P. Liu, T. Zhang, and J. Zhang, J. Electrochem. Soc., 163, H459 (2016).
- 23. J.-K. Sun and Q. Xu, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 7, 2071 (2014).
- <span id="page-11-18"></span>24. W. Xia, A. Mahmood, R. Zou, and Q. Xu, Energy Environ. Sci., 8, 1837 (2015).
- <span id="page-11-19"></span> N. Hassan, A. Shahat, A. El-Didamony, M. G. El-Desouky, and A. A. El-Bindary, J. Mol. Struct., 1210, 128029 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-20"></span> K. S. Park, Z. Ni, A. P. Côté, J. Y. Choi, R. Huang, F. J. Uribe-Romo, H. K. Chae, M. O'Keeffe, and O. M. Yaghi, *PNAS*, 103, 10186 (2006).
- <span id="page-11-21"></span> L. Chen, Y. Zhang, L. Dong, X. Liu, L. Long, S. Wang, C. Liu, S. Dong, and J. Jia, *Carbon*, 158, 885 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-22"></span> L. Peng, C.-T. Hung, S. Wang, X. Zhang, X. Zhu, Z. Zhao, C. Wang, Y. Tang, W. Li, and D. Zhao, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 141, 7073 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-23"></span>Y. Lai, W. Chen, Z. Zhang, Y. Qu, Y. Gan, and J. Li, *Electrochim. Acta*, 191, 733 (2016).
- <span id="page-11-24"></span> Z. Liang, C. Zhang, H. Yuan, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, and R. Cao, *Chem. Commun.*, 54, 7519 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-25"></span>31. G. Wu et al., J. Mater. Chem., 21, 11392 (2011).
- H.-W. Liang, W. Wei, Z.-S. Wu, X. Feng, and K. Müllen, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 135, 16002 (2013).
- <span id="page-11-26"></span> U. Koslowski, I. Herrmann, P. Bogdanoff, C. Barkschat, S. Fiechter, N. Iwata, H. Takahashi, and H. Nishikori, ECS Trans., 13, 125 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-27"></span>34. G. Kresse and D. Joubert, *Phys. Rev. B*, **59**, 1758 (1999).
- 35. S. Yang, X. Feng, X. Wang, and K. Müllen, *Angew. Chem.*, 123, 5451 (2011).
- <span id="page-11-29"></span><span id="page-11-28"></span>Y. Zhao, K. Watanabe, and K. Hashimoto, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 134, 19528 (2012).
   X. Wan, X. Liu, Y. Li, R. Yu, L. Zheng, W. Yan, H. Wang, M. Xu, and J. Shui, Nat.
- Catal, 2, 259 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-30"></span>38. Z. Li et al., Nano Energy, 47, 199 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-32"></span>D. Liu, L. Tao, D. Yan, Y. Zou, and S. Wang, Chem. Electro. Chem, 5, 1775 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-33"></span>40. Y. Wang, J. Li, and Z. Wei, Chem. Electro. Chem, 5, 1764 (2018).