---
source: Wang 等 - 2020 - Boosting the Oxygen Reduction Performance via Tuning the Synergy between Metal Core and Oxide Shell.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 10.708s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:23:08.442060Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Boosting the Oxygen Reduction Performance via Tuning Synergy between Metal Core and Oxide Shell of Metal-Organic Frameworks-Derived Co@CoOx

**Authors:** Hao Wang, Rong-Hui Kou, Qiu Jin, Yu-Zi Liu, Feng-Xiang Yin, Cheng-Jun Sun, Liang Wang, Zhi-Yuan Ma, Yang Ren, Ning Liu, and Biaohua Chen

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemElectroChem* 10.1002/celc.202000038

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.202000038

A Journal of

**www.chemelectrochem.org**

**FULL PAPER**

# **Boosting the Oxygen Reduction Performance via Tuning Synergy between Metal Core and Oxide Shell of Metal-Organic Frameworks-Derived Co@CoOx**

Hao Wang,+[a] Rong-Hui Kou,+[b] Qiu Jin,+[a] Yu-Zi Liu,[c] Feng-Xiang Yin,[d] Cheng-Jun Sun,[b] Liang Wang,[b] Zhi-Yuan Ma,[b] Yang Ren,[b] Ning Liu,[a] Biao-Hua Chen\*[a]

Co core@Co oxide shell (Co@CoOx) catalysts represent a large family with promising oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalytic activity. However, inadequate understanding of Co@CoOx synergy prohibits further pursuit of catalytic performance enhancement. Herein, a Co zeolitic-imidazolate framework was converted into metallic Co, followed by controlled air treatment to form Co@CoOx. The composition and structure evolution as a function of air treatment temperature were studied thoroughly through conventional and synchrotron (both ex-situ and in-situ) characterizations, confirming the coexistence of CoO and Co3O4 in the shell. The optimal catalyst showed an ORR half-wave potential of 0.87 V (vs. RHE) in an alkaline half cell and delivered high discharge capacity in an aprotic Li-O2 battery (7,124 mAh·gCat+C-1 ) and an aqueous Zn-air battery (694 mAh·gZn-1 ) with good performance retention after durability test. Modeling simulation and density functional theory calculation confirmed the charge donation from metal core to oxide shell and shed light on new insights of how metal@metal oxide synergy impacted the ORR via tuning the charge conductivity, oxygen affinity and intermediate transfer pathway. This work opens up a venue to boost ORR catalytic activity from an interfacial synergy perspective.

# **Introduction**

ChemElectroChem

 Electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) has been intensively studied as it realizes energy conversion and produces electricity through fuel cells and metal-air batteries.

- [a] Dr. H. Wang, Dr. Q. Jin, Prof. N. Liu, Prof. B. Chen College of Environmental and Energy Engineering Beijing University of Technology Beijing 100124, P.R. China E-mail: chenbh@bjut.edu.cn
- [b] Dr. R. Kou, Dr. C. Sun, Dr. L. Wang, Dr. Z. Ma, D. R. Yang X-Ray Science Division, Advanced Photon Source Argonne National Laboratory Lemont, Illinois 60439, USA.
- [c] Dr. Y. Liu Center of Nanoscale Materials Argonne National Laboratory Lemont, Illinois 60439, USA.
- [d] Prof. F. Yin Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Advanced Catalytic Materials and Technology Changzhou University Changzhou 213164, P.R. China
- [+] These authors contributed equally to this work.

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.((Please delete this text if not appropriate))

The ORR affords sluggish kinetics and consequently requires high usage of platinum-group metals (PGMs) to reduce the energy penalty, which unfortunately increases the cost hurdle for large-scale implementation. [2] From an applicable perspective, although with underperformed turnover frequency than Pt, PGMfree catalysts are appealing and gaining tractions due to their essentially affordable prices. [3] With decades of efforts in search of PGM-free catalysts, the current catalyst of choice uses Fe or Co to obtain satisfactory ORR performance. [4] Compared to Fe, Co would less likely participate in Fenton reactions to yield hydroxyl radicals, [3b, 5] which are undesirable due to their corrosive nature. [6] Rational design of Co-based ORR catalysts is crucial because metallic Co is unstable in O2-enriched environment, while Co oxides are only semiconducting. Integrating the two components into core@shell structures would be a smart strategy, and the synergy in between has been reported to benefit the ORR. [7]

10.1002/celc.202000038

**Scheme 1.** Synthetic scheme of Co@CoOx PGM-free catalysts.

 In typical metal-metal oxide systems, interactions are evidenced by electron donation. The charge flow could be from metal to metal oxide [8] or in the opposite direction, [9] depending on their individual work function. The altered electron configuration after charge flow shows impacts to O2 adsorption and active site stability, consequently affecting the ORR kinetics as demonstrated in Pt/NbOx systems. [10] Despite many claimed the positive role of Co@CoOx synergy in the ORR, how it works for the reaction is quite ambiguous, calling for insightful and comprehensive investigations.[7b, 11] Inadequate understanding of Co@CoOx synergy significantly holds back the pursuit of ORR activity enhancement. Herein, we aim to unravel the electron configuration in Co@CoOx and explore whether it alters the charge conductivity, oxygen affinity and intermediate transfer pathway towards the ORR. To fulfill the requirement of the proposed study, synthesis of Co@CoOx should allow for compositional and structural tunability. Ever since the first Cozeolitic-imidazolate framework (ZIF)-derived ORR catalyst reported, [12] ZIFs as a sub-class of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have been considered as model self-sacrificial systems to generate catalysts with high surface area, high porosity and density populated active sites. [13] ZIFs are assembled by repeated coordination between transition metals and imidazolate linkers with prearranged metal-N4 ligations. [14] One could expect that inert pyrolysis enables metal nodes converted into nanoparticles, while imidazolates decompose and undergo rearrangement to form highly conductive and N-doped carbon matrixes for particle dispersion. [15]

**Figure 1.** (A) RDE voltammograms of PGM-free catalysts and 20wt% Pt/C at 1600 rpm in 0.1 M KOH. (B) RDE voltammograms of ZG-800-200 before and after 2,000 CV cycles. (C) Methanol crossover tests conducted during chronoamperometry at 0.55 V vs. RHE for ZG-800-200 and 20wt% Pt/C. (D) Galvanostatic discharging curves of ZG-800-200 and 20wt% Pt/C at a current density of 5 mA·cmgeo-2 , (E) discharging polarization curve and power density curve for ZG-800-200 and 20wt% Pt/C, and (F) galvanostatic discharging curves of ZG-800-200 at various current densities in an aqueous Zn-air battery.

 Herein, ZIF-67 mixed with graphene oxide (GO) was thermally activated in inert gas to generate metallic Co, followed by controlled air treatment to form oxide shells. The ORR catalytic activity and stability of the catalysts were examined in alkaline half cells and metal-air batteries. Conventional and synchrotron (both in-situ and ex-situ) spectroscopic tools, surface property measurement and morphology imaging were carried out to thoroughly explore the structure evolution as the function of the Co@CoOx integration chemistry, providing basis for modeling simulations. Further density functional theory calculations shed lights on new insights of impacts of intermolecular interactions to the ORR catalyst properties. Through leveraging the Co@CoOx synergy, the optimal catalyst performed satisfactorily towards the ORR in alkaline and aprotic media. Li-O2 battery preparation, testing and computational details are available in Supporting Information.

#### **Results and Discussion**

 The successful formation of ZIF-67 was confirmed by experimental and simulated X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns as shown in Figure S1. ZIF-67 was blended with GO, and the resulting mixture was thermally activated in nitrogen at X **°**C (ZG-X, X=600, 700, 800 or 900). A rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) apparatus was used to fast screen the catalysts in an alkaline half cell, and the results shown in Figure S2A-B suggest ZG-800 with the earliest half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.84 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) was prepared from the optimal synthetic condition. Z-800 as shown in Figure S2C underperformed due to the absence of GO, which ensures the conductivity and connectivity. ZG-800 was selected for the subsequent controlled air treatment at Y **°**C (ZG-800-Y, Y=100, 200, 250 or 300, Scheme 1). RRDE voltammograms in Figure 1A indicate the *E*1/2 of PGM-free catalysts follows the trend of ZG-800-200 (0.87 V vs. RHE) > ZG-800-100 (0.85 V) > ZG-800- 250 (0.82 V) > ZG-800-300 (0.78 V). Commercial 20wt% Pt/C with a loading of 60 μgPt·cm-2 was used as benchmark to avoid underreporting its ORR catalytic activity. ZG-800-200 still offers competitive kinetics- and diffusion-controlled behaviors compared with Pt/C benchmark (Figure S3) and surpasses the Co@CoOx catalysts reported in recent five years (Table S7). Furthermore, ZG-800-200 has also demonstrated good durability by showing only a 14 mV decrease in *E*1/2 and almost no change in diffusion-limiting current density after 2,000 cyclic voltammetry cycles within the potential range of 0.95-0.55 V vs. RHE (Figure 1B). The tolerance against methanol crossover was measured by injecting methanol during chronoamperometry tests, and the methanol showed no impact to the cathodic current of ZG-800- 200, but caused a fatal decay to that of Pt/C (Figure 1C). In an aqueous Zn-air battery, the galvanostatic curves (Figure 1D) indicate a high discharging potential of 1.24 V (vs. Zn) and a specific discharging capacity of 694 mAh·gZn-1 on ZG-800-200, and the polarization curve of ZG-800-200 demonstrates a peak power density of 107 mW·cm-2 (Figure 1E); both parameters are superior to those of 20wt% Pt/C. At a discharging current density of 100 mA·cmgeo-2, galvanostatic curve of ZG-800-200 still maintained a capacity of 267 mAh·gZn-1 (Figure 1F), demonstrating good rate capability. [1b] ZG-800-200 was also cycled for its discharging/charging stability in the Zn-air battery, and it maintained stable performance up to 320 cycles (~4.5 days, Figure S4A). In an aprotic Li-O2 battery, ZG-800-200 delivered a high discharging specific capacity of 7,124 mAh·gCat+C-1 at a current density of 50 mA·gCat+C-1 (Figure S4B). At a fixed discharging/charging capacity up to 500 mAh·gCat+C-1, ZG-800-200 maintained stable performance for at least 60 cycles (Figure S4C).

**Figure 2.** (A) Regular lab XRD patterns, (B) Raman spectra, (C) XPS full spectra, (D) XPS deconvoluted Co 2p, (E) O 1s, and (F) N 1s spectra for the ZG-800, ZG-800-100, ZG-800-200, ZG-800-250 and ZG-800-300 samples.

 Conventional characterizations were carried out to preliminarily understand the structures of the studied PGM-free catalysts. XRD pattern of ZG-800 in Figure 2A shows three peaks centered at (2θ=) 44.3°, 51.6° and 75.9°, representing (111), (200) and (220) facets of metallic Co, respectively. The subsequent air treatment reduced the metallic peak intensity and induced another five peaks with their intensities increasing gradually as the oxidation temperature increased. These five peaks centered at (*2θ*=) 19.1°, 31.3°, 36.7°, 44.7°, 59.4° and 65.2° are the characteristic (111), (220), (311), (400), (511) and (440) facets of Co3O4, respectively. [16] Air temperature controlled the oxidation level of Co@CoOx until 300 ºC, under which metallic Co was entirely oxidized to Co3O4. The composition evolution in Co@CoOx was reconfirmed by Raman spectra as shown in Figure 2B. The three peaks located at 1353, 1588 and 2776 cm-1 correspond to D-, G- and 2D-band of GO, respectively, which were observed in all five samples. The low intensity of 2Dband is indication of a few graphitized carbon layers. [17] The extra five peaks located at 191, 468, 507, 604, 672 cm-1 are assigned to Co3O4. [16] The intensities of these peaks gradually increase along with the increasing air temperature. However, ZG-800 without any air treatment still contained Co-oxide species, which will be explored and discussed in the following synchrotron section. Besides the Co@CoOx particles, the inert pyrolysis of ZIF-67 could result in abundant atomically dispersed N-doped and Co-N-codped carbon sites. To justify the role of the particles in ORR catalysis, ZG-800-200 was thoroughly washed by acid, and the removal of the particles declined the ORR activity (Figure S3A), demonstrating the participation of Co@CoOx is indispensible to achieve high alkaline ORR activity.

 X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to study the surface compositions of the Co@CoOx catalysts. The full spectra (Figure 2C) demonstrate the coexistence of Co, O, N and C, which are all expected through the pyrolysis of ZIF-67. The Co oxidation states of the applied samples can be evaluated by the XPS Co 2p deconvoluted spectra as shown in Figure 2D. The five fitted peaks in Co 2p3/2 located at 778.5 eV, 779.8 eV, 781.5 eV, 784.8 eV and 788.9 eV corresponds to Co0, Co3+, Co2+, Co2+ satellite and Co3+ satellite, respectively. The metallic Co phase accounts for 28% of the total Co in ZG-800 (Table S2). Starting to oxidize ZG-800 from 100 to 250 ºC, the absolute Co0 content as well as the Co0/Cototal ratio showed a decreasing trend, suggesting the formation of CoOx was at expense of metallic Co. Among the five studied samples, ZG-800-200 showed the greatest content of surface Co2+, which usually accounts for the ORR activity. [18] The participation of CoOx in the composites can also be corroborated by the deconvoluted O 1s XPS results as shown in Figure 2E. All the samples have similar oxygen functional groups, contributed from C-O (~533.6 eV), C=O (~532.2 eV) and oxide-O (~529.8 eV). [19] ZG-800 also shows oxide-form O, consistent with the aforementioned XRD observation. As air treatment temperature went higher, the intensity of the oxide-O peak increased, demonstrating the metallic Co core has been gradually bonded with oxygen and formed thicker and thicker oxides. The deconvoluted XPS N 1s spectra can be fitted into five peaks, ascribed to oxidated-N (~403.8 eV), graphitic-N (~401.3 eV), pyrrolic-N (~400.3 eV), Co-N (~399.2 eV) and pyridinic-N (~398.4 eV) as shown in Figure 2F. Except for the oxidated-N, the other four forms of N have been considered to participate in the active site formation for ORR catalysis. [14c] It was believed that the relatively high activity of the acid-washed ZG-800-200 in Figure S3A was benefited from these N sites. Compared with the pristine ZG-800, all the oxidized samples show N 1s binding energy shifts, and especially the ZG-800-200 shows the largest shifts up to 0.40 eV, suggesting the oxidization on Co alters the electron-binding ability of the adjacent N atoms, verifying strong interactions between the particles and the carbon support. Among the samples, ZG-800-200 possesses the greatest atomic content for total N as well as individual graphitic-N, pyrrolic-N, Co-N and pyridinic-N (Table S3). High N-doping level typically warrants enhanced electronic conductivity and active site density.

**Figure 3.** *In-situ* synchrotron XRD patterns of ZG-800 (A) when heated from room temperature to 200 °C in air and (B) when the air treatment was maintained at 200 °C for 6 h. (C) XANES (inset: Co*n+* determined by linear combination) and (D) EXAFS of the catalysts with Co foil and Co3O4 as references. The experimental and fitted EXAFS spectra for (E) ZG-800-200 and (F) ZG-800-250.

 Due to the relatively low signal/noise ratio of the regular lab XRD, it is not yet clear at this point if other forms of Co oxides existed in the shell. Therefore, synchrotron tools were used to have an in-depth understanding of the catalyst composition and structure as the function of air treatment temperature. In-situ synchrotron XRD monitored the compositional evolution from ZG-800 to ZG-800-200. ZG-800 powder was loaded on a Linkam hot stage equipped with a furnace, which heated the sample from room temperature to 200 °C and maintained at 200 °C for 6 h in air to repeat the ZG-800-200 synthetic procedure. The XRD patterns shown in Figure 3A demonstrate ZG-800 is mainly composed of metallic Co and graphitized carbon. However, the peaks labeled by blue arrows evidence the existence of CoO, which was undetectable by conventional XRD. The unavoidable CoO was originated from the sensitive nature of metallic Co in air, but has been largely neglected in the previous Co@CoOx studies. [7a, 20] This observation explains the visible oxide signals in Raman spectra and XPS deconvoluted O 1s spectra. The role of CoO in ORR catalysis will be discussed in later sections. Figure 3B records the synchrotron XRD patterns of ZG-800 when the air treatment temperature was kept at 200 **°**C for 6h. New peaks labeled in red marks are assigned to spinel *fcc*-Co3O4. Rietveld refinements provide the weight ratio of the compositions in ZG-800 and ZG-800-200, showing Co3O4 coexisted with CoO but occupied a greater ratio in the oxide shell of ZG-800-200 (Figure S5). This reconfirms the formation of oxide shell was at the expense of metallic Co, consistent with the reduced peak intensity of metallic Co in ZG-800-200. The gradual transformation from metallic Co to oxide was also evidenced by X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (XANES, Figure 3C), showing an increase in Co valence as the air treatment temperature increased. Fourier transformed extended X-ray absorption near edge spectroscopy (EXAFS, Figure 3D) also corroborates the gradual visibility of Co-O interactions, accompanied by disappearance of metallic Co-Co interactions with the increased temperature. To understand the Co@CoOx integration chemistry, especially when the airtreatment temperature exceeded 200 °C, EXAFS fittings were performed on ZG-800-200 and ZG-800-250 (Figure 3E-F and Table S1). The Co-O coordination number of ZG-800-200 was determined to be 2.97(±0.57), which was underestimated due to the interference of metallic Co. However, the Co-O coordination number calculated on ZG-800-250 was increased to 5.12(±0.20), very close to 6 on pure Co3O4, suggesting the majority of Co has participated in oxides. Therefore, 200 °C would be the optimal temperature to form a Co@CoOx catalyst affording common characteristics of metallic Co and CoOx.

 Morphological images of ZG-800 (Figure S6A and Figure S7A) suggest metallic Co particles with average diameter of 96.6 nm were firmly anchored on graphene matrix. The particle average diameters of the Co spheres after 100, 200 and 250 °C air treatment were turned into 102.9, 133.1 and 136.4 nm, respectively (Figure S8). The core@shell morphological evolution during the air treatment can be speculated from Oelemental mapping images (Figure 4); *i.e.* a thin film of oxide shell formed initially, followed by metallic ion diffusion towards the outside surface and then oxidation once Co reached air. This explains the hollow spots in ZG-800-200 and the presence of aggregates on air-treated catalysts. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) images confirm the shrinkage of metallic Co core, and high-resolution TEM performed on a single particle in ZG-800-200 shows CoO was indistinguishable from Co3O4 in the oxide shell (Figure S9). After exposed in air at 300 **°**C, the Co spheres in ZG-800-300 were completely oxidized to Co3O4 with no core-shell structures visible. Specific surface area shrinkage from 183 m2·g-1 of ZG-800 to 64 m2·g-1 of ZG-800-300 (Figure S10 and Table S4) could result from the growth of particles and the lost of amorphous carbon through the air treatment. To shed light on the advances of the catalyst synthesis, ZRTG-800-200 with ZIF-67 prepared in methanol at room temperature was also studied for its structure and ORR catalytic activity. According to Figure S11A, ZIF-67 prepared at room temperature showed well-defined polyhedron morphology, which was maintained after pyrolysis. The particles in ZRTG-800-200 were largely trapped in the polyhedron carbon matrix, leading to obstacles for mass transfer and deteriorated ORR activity (Figure S11B).

**Figure 4.** FESEM (left), TEM (inset: HRTEM, middle) and Co, O, Co+O elemental mapping images (right) to show the morphology and elemental distribution of ZG-800-100, ZG-800-200 and ZG-800-250. The images for ZG-800 and ZG-800-300 are available in Supporting Information.

 To investigate the Co@CoOx synergy and its impacts to the ORR, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were carried out over four active sites, proposed based on the experimental characterizations (Figure 5A). Co@CoO represents ZG-800 due to the unavoidable CoO shell, while Co@Co3O4 signifies ZG-800-200 since Co3O4 dominated the oxide shell. The calculated total density of states (DOS) showed significant band gaps in pure cobalt oxides, where 1.32 eV for Co3O4 and 2.95 eV for CoO, in reasonable agreement with the previously experimental studies. [21] However, the band gaps disappeared with some electronic states occurred near the Fermi level after the integration with metallic Co (Figure 5B), demonstrating a conductivity enhancement. This observation is consistent with the Nyquist plots (Figure 5C) of electrochemical impedance, in which all Co@CoOx samples showed smaller semi-circle diameters than ZG-800-300 at high frequencies. We speculated the large semi-circle diameter of ZG-800-300 was mainly due to the semi-conductive nature of Co3O4 because the particles still had connectivity as provided by graphene (Figure S6B). Bader charge calculated on Co oxides indicate the Co sites of Co@Co3O4 possessed lower electron affinity (+1.12 e) than those of pure Co3O4 (+1.16 e, Figure 5D). Similar phenomenon was also observed in CoO and Co@CoO systems (Figure S12). The reduced surface Co valence after Co@CoOx integration evidences the charge donation from metallic Co core to CoOx shell, altering the electron configuration of surface Co to be more electron enriched. To get insights of the driving force of the charge donation process, work function (*ϕ*) calculation was carried out on Co and Co3O4, showing a value of 4.94 and 5.97 eV, respectively (Figure S13). This agrees fairly well with the Bader charge result, corroborating the charge flow direction was from Co to Co3O4 until their Fermi level were aligned. [22] Free energy diagram of O2 adsorption as well as each proton/charge transfer step was calculated on the proposed structures (Figure 5E-F and Figure S14). Oxygen adsorption as the very first step in ORR showed energy downhill on all the structures except CoO, demonstrating CoO is averse to the ORR. This could explain the underperformed ORR activity when CoO is largely contained in the Co@CoOx catalyst, [23] and the activity improvement of a CoO/C catalyst could only count on a higher N-doping level in the carbon matrix. [24] The free energy change of oxygen adsorption on Co@Co3O4 is 0.41 eV, greater than 0.35 eV on pure Co3O4, suggesting a higher O2 affinity on the core@shell structure. The O2 adsorption free energy change and Bader charge results demonstrated that lower valence oxide would be more attractive for O2 adsorption and tendentious to donate its charge to O2, giving rise to faster ORR responses. This explains the appealing performance of ZG-800-200 since its surface Co2+ ratio has been maximized (Figure 2D and Table S2). When air treatment temperature was above 200 **°**C, the excessive Co3O4 caused the non-conductivity of the catalyst and a higher ratio of surface Co3+ (Table S2), both deteriorating the ORR catalytic performance. The composition of the oxide shell also influences the electron transfer pathway. Ring electrode of RRDE detected H2O2 oxidation current as a reflection of H2O2 yield during the ORR. H2O2 as a two-electron transfer ORR product should be kept minimal because it degrades catalysts and membranes. Figure S15A-B suggest H2O2 generated on ZG-800 was almost doubled that on ZG-800-200. DFT calculation showed after the formation of \*OOH on the active sites, the subsequent H2O2 dissociation (*ΔG*<sup>3</sup> in Table S5) had lower Gibbs free energy change on Co@CoO than on Co@Co3O4 (Figure S15C-D); *i.e.* higher amounts of Co3O4 facilitate a direct conversion from O2 to H2O.

 While this study was intentionally focusing on the ORR, we also evaluated the OER catalytic activity and durability of the ZIF-67-derived catalysts in an alkaline half cell. Figure S16A and Figure S16B show the RDE voltammograms and their derived Tafel curves, respectively. ZG-800 and ZG-800-200 afforded the best OER catalytic activity among the studied PGM-free catalysts; both delivered a current density of 10 mA·cm-2 at 1.66 V vs. RHE and displayed Tafel slope of ~85 mV·dec-1. The excellent OER activity of ZG-800 could be attributed to the good charge conductivity of metallic Co, while that of ZG-800-200 was benefited from Co and CoOx redox synergy. Further increasing the air treatment temperature deteriorated the charge conductivity, thus lowering the OER activity. Figure S16C shows the chronopotentiometric curves for ZG-800 and ZG-800-200 to learn their catalytic durability. The unstable nature of metallic Co led to a notable potential increase of ZG-800 through 10,000 s test, while ZG-800-200 did not show dramatic potential change.

**FULL PAPER**

**Figure 5.** (A) Structures of Co3O4, Co@Co3O4, CoO and Co@CoO (blue ball represents cobalt and red ball signifies oxygen). (B) Total density of states comparison for cobalt oxide with and without metallic cobalt. (C) Nyquist plots from electrochemical impedance for the PGM-free catalysts. (D) Bader charge analysis of Co3O4 in Co@Co3O4 and in pure Co3O4. Free energy diagram of the ORR with four-electron transfer pathway on (E) Co3O4 and (F) Co@Co3O4 under various potentials in alkaline medium.

### **Conclusion**

 In summary, ZIFs offer a model approach to prepare metallic Co firmly anchored on graphene matrix. The subsequent air treatment realizes compositional and structural tuneability of Co@CoOx, with 200 **°**C as the optimal condition. Combined analyses of synchrotron characterizations and modeling simulations verified a charge donation from metallic core to oxide shell, lowering the surface Co valence. Such synergy alters the charge conductivity, oxygen adsorption energy barrier and charge-/proton-transfer mechanism of Co@CoOx during the ORR. As a consequence, the optimal Co@CoOx catalyst afforded high catalytic activity and durability in an alkaline half cell, an aprotic Li-O2 battery and an alkaline Zn-air battery. Adequate understanding of such structure-property relationship aids in further improving the activity of Co@CoOx ORR catalysts.

# **Experimental Section**

#### **Material synthesis**

 Except for graphene oxide (GO, 0.5-5 μm large and 1-3 nm in thickness), which was purchased from XFNANO® Materials Tech Co., Ltd, all the chemicals were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich®. All the raw materials for catalyst synthesis were used as received without further purification.

 ZIF-67 synthesis has been described in our previous study. [14c] Briefly, cobalt (II) acetate and 2-methylimidazole with a molar ratio of 1:10 was mixed in methanol at room temperature under stirring for 1 h. The mixture was then transferred into a stainless-steel Teflon-lined autoclave for hydrothermal reaction, which was conducted at 120 °C for 24 h. The purplish solid collected from the autoclave was washed my methanol for several times to remove the unreacted residues and then dried at 60 °C in a vacuum oven to finally obtain ZIF-67 (Figure S1). ZIF-67 and GO with a weight ratio of 2/1 (ZIF-67/GO) were mixed in methanol, and the resulting mixture was subject to ultrasonic treatment for at least 2 h to yield a homogeneous suspension. The suspension was then placed in an 80 °C oven until completely dried, and the powder is denoted as ZG (Z=ZIF-67 and G=GO). ZG was then thermally activated in inert atmosphere from room temperature to a target temperature (600 °C, 700 °C, 800 °C or 900 °C), maintained at the target temperature for 5 h, and naturally cooled down to room temperature to finally obtain the ZG-X (X = 600, 700, 800 or 900) samples. Z-800 (ZIF-67 after activated at 800 °C without GO), ZG2-800 (with a ZIF-67/GO mass ratio of 1/1), and ZG0.5-800 (with a ZIF-67/GO mass ratio of 4/1) were also prepared for comparison.

 In the subsequent controlled oxidization process, ZG-800 was exposed to air in a muffle furnace. The furnace was set to heat from room temperature to a target temperature (100 °C, 200 °C, 250 °C or 300 °C), maintained at the target temperature for 6 h, and then naturally cooled down to room temperature to finally obtain the ZG-800-Y (Y = 100, 200, 250 or 300) samples. To rule out the contribution of Co@CoOx particles in ORR, ZG-800-200 was ultra-sonicated in 0.5 M H2SO4 for half hour, followed by stirring at room temperature for 6 h. The sample was collected by centrifuge, washed by water until the solution is neutral and dried at 80 °C in a vacuum oven overnight (ZG-800-200-al, al = acid leach).

# **Conventional characterizations**

 The samples' X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were recorded using a D/max-2500/PC X-ray diffractometer (Rigaku, Japan) with Cu-Kα radiation over a 2*θ* range of ~5-60°. The samples' N2 adsorptiondesorption isotherms were collected using an ASAP2020 automatic analyzer (Micromeritics, USA), and the pore size distributions were calculated by Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) method. The specific surface areas (SSAs) were measured using Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) model. The samples' field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) images were obtained using a SUPRA55 microscope (CARL ZEISS, Germany). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images, high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images and high-angle annular dark field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) images were obtained using a Tecnai G2 F20 electron microscope (FEI, USA) at Center of Nanoscale Materials, Argonne National Laboratory. The samples' Raman spectra in the Raman shift range of 100-3500 cm-1 were determined using a LabRAM ARAMIS (HORIBA JobinYvon, France) with a λ=532 nm laser. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) data were accessed by an ESCALAB 250 XPS instrument with an Mg-Kα X-ray source (Thermo, USA) at a pass energy 30 eV. The binding energy was calibrated by setting the C1s peak binding energy to 285.0 eV.

#### **Synchrotron characterizations**

 All the synchrotron measurements were carried out at Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory. *Ex-situ* X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements at the Co K-edge were carried out at Sector 20-BM-B beamline. The studied samples were sealed in transparent Scotch® tape, which was placed vertically with the X-ray beam aiming at the centre of the tape. XANES data processing was conducted in ATHENA software, and EXAFS data processing was done in ARTIMES software using IFEFFIT package.[25] *In-situ* synchrotron XRD spectra were collected at Sector 11-ID-C beamline. The X-ray wavelength was 0.1173 Å, and the beam size was 0.3×0.3 mm2. A Linkam stage equipped with a furnace was used to heat the ZG-800 sample from room temperature to 200 °C and maintained at 200 °C for 6 h in air to repeat the ZG-800-200 synthesis. The stage was placed vertically with the X-ray beam aiming at the centre of the sample, and XRD was scanned over a 2*θ* range of ~1-7 ° for every 40 s to *in-situ* observe the crystalline structure change. Synchrotron XRD results were refined using the GXAS package.[26]

#### **Half-cell electrochemical measurements**

 The half-cell electrochemical measurements were conducted at room temperature in 0.1 M KOH using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) apparatus (PINE, USA). High-purity 0.1 M KOH solution was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich® as the electrolyte instead of making one from KOH pellets to avoid the interference of CO2 and other contaminations during the electrolyte preparation. According to the manufacturer, the solution was made from Milli-Q water (18.25 MΩ) and is analytic chemical grade, also belonging to ion chromatography reagent category. Furthermore, all the half-cell measurements were carried out in a Teflon reactor (PINE, USA) to mitigate any potential contamination due to the reaction between alkaline solution and glass. RRDE was connected to a computercontrolled CHI 760E potentiostat (CH Instruments, China). The electrochemical measurements of the working electrodes were performed in a traditional three-electrode system. A Hg-HgO electrode was used as the reference electrode, and the potentials discussed in this work were calibrated with respect to a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by measuring the open circuit potential between the Hg-HgO and a HydroFlex hydrogen electrode (Gaskatel, Germany) in 0.1 M KOH. A gold coil was used as the counter electrode to avoid interferences of platinum. To make a homogeneous ink, 5 mg of the catalyst was dispersed in 1000 μL ethanol and 50μL of 5wt% Nafion solution, followed by ultrasonication for at least 30 min. Ink was transferred by a micropipette to ensure a 0.50 mg·cm-2 loading of the PGM-free catalysts, 0.06 mgPt·cm-2 of the 20wt% Pt/C benchmark (Johnson Matthey, UK), and 0.20 mg·cm-2 loading of the IrO2 benchmark (Sigma-Aldrich, USA).

 Prior to each RDE measurement for ORR, the catalyst was subject to cyclic voltammetry (CV) scans at 50 mV·s-1 in N2-saturated electrolyte until the signals were stable. The catalyst was then subjected to an LSV scan with a sweep rate of 5 mV·s-1 in N2-saturated electrolyte as background. After the electrolyte was purged by a continuous flow of O2 for at least 30 min, the RDE voltammograms were obtained with a sweep rate of 5 mV·s-1 from 1.10 to 0.20 V vs. RHE. All voltammograms were collected after *iR*-compensation. The background-corrected LSV curves were regarded as the samples' ORR catalytic activities. The ORR electrocatalytic stability was tested by 2,000 CV cycling between 0.95 and 0.55 V vs. RHE. The methanol crossover tests were conducted by injecting 3 mL of methanol into the electrochemical cell (with ~60 ml electrolyte) after 100 s during the 250 s chronoamperometry tests. Tafel (Eq. S1), Koutecky-Levich (Eq. S2-4) and electron transfer calculations (Eq. S5-6) are available in Supporting Information.

 Prior to each RDE measurement for OER, the catalyst was subjected to CV scans at 50 mV·s-1 in N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH until the signals were stable. The RDE voltammograms were then obtained with a sweep rate of 5 mV·s-1 under 1600 rpm. All voltammograms were collected after *iR*-compensation. The OER electrocatalytic stability was tested by [chronopotentiometry](app:ds:chronoamperometry) in the RDE apparatus at an electrode rotation rate of 1600 rpm; the entire process lasted 10,000 s at a fixed current density of 5 mA·cm-2.

**Air electrode preparation and electrochemical tests in Zn-air battery**

 Catalyst ink prepared for half-cell testing was also used for air electrode preparation for Zn-air battery. Ink was transferred by micropipette onto a hydrophobic disk carbon-paper (Toray, Japan) to maintain a catalyst loading of ~1.2 mg·cm-2 as a cathode. A polished Zn plate (0.2 mm in thickness) was used as an anode. Between the electrodes, 6 M KOH with 0.1 M ZnCl2 solution was used as the electrolyte. The battery performance tests were carried out on a LAND cycler (Wuhan Land Electronic Co. Ltd). For comparison, the Zn-air battery with Pt/C as cathode catalyst (0.25 mg·cm-2) was also tested under the similar conditions.

#### **Computational details**

Computational details are available in Supporting Information.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the Changzhou Sci & Tech Program (Project Nos. CJ20159006 and CJ20160007) and the Advanced Catalysis and Green Manufacturing Collaborative Innovation Centre of Changzhou University (Project Nos. ACGM2016-06-02 and ACGM2016-06-03). This research used resources of the Advanced Photon Source (APS) and Center of Nanoscale Materials (CNM); both are Office of Science user facilities, operated for the U.S. DOE Office of Science by Argonne National Laboratory under Contract No. DE-AC02- 06CH11357. Sector 20 facilities at the Advanced Photon Source also acknowledge the support by the Canadian Light Source and its funding partners.

# **Conflict of interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** metal-organic frameworks • metal-metal oxide synergy • oxygen reduction reaction • metal-air battery • electrocatalysis

- [1] a) F. Cheng, J. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2012**, *41*, 2172-2192; b) H. Wang, F. X. Yin, N. Liu, R. H. Kou, X. B. He, C. J. Sun, B. H. Chen, D. J. Liu, H. Q. Yin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1901531. c) H. Wang, F. Yin, B. Chen, G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 16168-16176.
- [2] a) D. J. Berger, *Science* **1999**, *286*, 49-49; b) X. He, F. Yin, H. Wang, B. Chen, G. Li, *Chinese J. Catal.* **2018**, *39*, 207-227.
- [3] a) H. A. Gasteiger, S. S. Kocha, B. Sompalli, F. T. Wagner, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2005**, *56*, 9-35. b) S. T. Thompson, D. Papageorgopoulos, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 558.
- [4] G. Wu, P. Zelenay, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 1878-1889.
- [5] M. B. Kadiiska, K. R. Maples, R. P. Mason, *Arch. Biochem. Biophys.* **1989**, *275*, 98-111.
- [6] a) T. Holmes, T. J. Skalski, M. Adamski, S. Holdcroft, *Chem. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1441-1449; b) H. Wang, X. Cheng, F. Yin, B. Chen, T. Fan, X. He, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *232*, 114-122.
- [7] a) W. Xia, R. Zou, L. An, D. Xia, S. Guo, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 568-576; b) A. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rösler, W. Xia, P. Weide, A. J. Botz, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 4087-4091; c) Z. Guo, F. Wang, Y. Xia, J. Li, A. G. Tamirat, Y. Liu, L. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 1443-1453.
- [8] a) H. Onishi, T. Aruga, C. Egawa, Y. Iwasawa, *Surf. Sci.* **1988**, *199*, 54- 66; b) D. Robba, D. Ori, P. Sangalli, G. Chiarello, L. Depero, F.

#### Parmigiani, *Surf. Sci.* **1997**, *380*, 311-323; c) H.-S. Oh, H. N. Nong, T. Reier, A. Bergmann, M. Gliech, J. Ferreira de Araújo, E. Willinger, R. Schlögl, D. Teschner, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 12552-12563; d) X. Wang, X. Liu, C.-J. Tong, X. Yuan, W. Dong, T. Lin, L.-M. Liu, F. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 7762-7771.

- [9] a) S. Tauster, S. Fung, R. Baker, J. Horsley, *Science* **1981**, *211*, 1121- 1125; b) S. Zhou, M. Wen, N. Wang, Q. Wu, Q. Wu, L. Cheng, *J. Mater. Chem.* **2012**, *22*, 16858-16864.
- [10] Q. Jia, S. Ghoshal, J. Li, W. Liang, G. Meng, H. Che, S. Zhang, Z.-F. Ma, S. Mukerjee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 7893-7903.
- [11] a) C. Alegre, C. Busacca, O. D. Blasi, V. Antonucci, A. S. Aricò, A. D. Blasi, V. Baglio, *J. Power Sources.* **2017**, *364*, 101-109; b) G. Xu, G.-C. Xu, J.-J. Ban, L. Zhang, H. Lin, C.-L. Qi, Z.-P. Sun, D.-Z. Jia, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2018**, *521*, 141-149.
- [12] S. Ma, G. A. Goenaga, A. V. Call, D. J. Liu, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2011**, *17*, 2063-2067.
- [13] a) Y. Hou, Z. Wen, S. Cui, S. Ci, S. Mao, J. Chen, *Adv. Func. Mater.* **2015**, *25*, 872-882; b) D. Zhao, J.-L. Shui, C. Chen, X. Chen, B. M. Reprogle, D. Wang, D.-J. Liu, *Chem. Sci.* **2012**, *3*, 3200-3205; c) H. M. Barkholtz, D.-J. Liu, *Mater. Horiz.* **2017**, *4*, 20-37.
- [14] a) R. Banerjee, A. Phan, B. Wang, C. Knobler, H. Furukawa, M. O'Keeffe, O. M. Yaghi, *Science* **2008**, *319*, 939-943; b) K. S. Park, Z. Ni, A. P. Côté, J. Y. Choi, R. Huang, F. J. Uribe-Romo, H. K. Chae, M. O'Keeffe, O. M. Yaghi, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.* **2006**, *103*, 10186- 10191; c) H. Wang, F.-X. Yin, B.-H. Chen, X.-B. He, P.-L. Lv, C.-Y. Ye, D.-J. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2017**, *205*, 55-67.
- [15] a) K. Zhou, B. Mousavi, Z. Luo, S. Phatanasri, S. Chaemchuen, F. Verpoort, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 952-957; b) J. Yang, F. Zhang, H. Lu, X. Hong, H. Jiang, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 10889-10893. c) H. Wang, L. Grabstanowicz, H. Barkholtz, D. Rebollar, Z. B. Kaiser, D. Zhao, B.-H. Chen, D.-J. Liu, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 2500-2507. d) B. Chen, X. He, F. Yin, H. Wang, D.-J. Liu, R. Shi, J. Chen, H. Yin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1700795.
- [16] Z. Zhang, L. Li, Q. Xu, B. Cao, *RSC Adv.* **2015**, *5*, 61631-61638.
- [17] a) Z.-H. Sheng, L. Shao, J.-J. Chen, W.-J. Bao, F.-B. Wang, X.-H. Xia, *ACS Nano* **2011**, *5*, 4350-4358. b) H. Yin, S. Liu, C. Zhang, J. Bao, Y. Zheng, M. Han, Z. Dai, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6*, 2086-2094.
- [18] X. Zhang, W. Fan, S. Zhao, R. Cao, C. Li, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2019**, *9*, 1998-2007.
- [19] W. Shen, T. Hu, P. Wang, H. Sun, W. Fan, *ChemPlusChem* **2014**, *79*, 284-289.
- [20] Z.-Y. Wu, P. Chen, Q.-S. Wu, L.-F. Yang, Z. Pan, Q. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2014**, *8*, 118-125.
- [21] a) V. Shinde, S. Mahadik, T. Gujar, C. Lokhande, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2006**, *252*, 7487-7492; b) J. Van Elp, J. Wieland, H. Eskes, P. Kuiper, G. Sawatzky, F. De Groot, T. Turner, *Phys. Rev. B* **1991**, *44*, 6090.
- [22] Z. Zhang, J. T. Yates Jr, *Chem. Rev.* **2012**, *112*, 5520-5551.
- [23] a) S. Guo, S. Zhang, L. Wu, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, 11770-11773. b) L. Tan, Q.-R. Pan, X.-T. Wu, N. Li, J.-H. Song, Z.-Q. Liu, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.*, **2019**, *7*, 6335-6344.
- [24] Z.-J. Jiang, Z. Jiang, *Sci. Rep.* **2016**, *6*, 27081.
- [25] B. Ravel, M. Newville, *Physica Scripta* **2005**, *2005*, 1007.
- [26] B. H. Toby, *J. Appl. Crystallogr.* **2001**, *34*, 210-213.

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

## **FULL PAPER**

Charge donation from metallic Co core to Co oxide shell was verified in a metal-organic framework-derived Co@CoOx system, enabling the surface of Co oxide more electron enriched. Such synergy alters the charge conductivity, oxygen affinity and intermediate transfer mechanism the ORR. during Adequate understanding of such correlations aids in further improving the activity of Co@CoO<sub>x</sub> ORR catalysts.

Hao Wang, Rong-Hui Kou, Qiu Jin, Feng-Xiang Yin, Cheng-Jun Sun, Liang Wang, Zhi-Yuan Ma, Yang Ren, Ning Liu, Biao-Hua Chen\*

Page No. - Page No.

Boosting the Oxygen Reduction Performance via Tuning Synergy between Metal Core and Oxide Shell of Metal-Organic Frameworks-Derived Co@CoOx