---
source: Wang 等 - 2025 - Dynamic Fe─F Coordination Triggered Structure‐Adaptive Fe–N–C for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Electro.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 81.911s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:30:37.214944Z
---

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202513102

*Oxygen Reduction Reaction* doi.org/10.1002/anie.202513102 *Hot Paper*

# **Dynamic Fe**─**F Coordination Triggered Structure-Adaptive Fe–N–C for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysis**

*Xue Wang*+*, Kai Li*+*, Youze Zeng*+*, Wei Liu, Lanlu Lu, Minhua Shao, Meiling Xiao,\* Changpeng Liu,\* Jianbing Zhu,\* and [Wei Xing\\*](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2841-7206)*

**Abstract:** The sustainable and widespread developments of fuel cells require material innovation toward the sluggish oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Although iron and nitrogen co-doped carbon material (Fe–N–C) is a promising alternative to scarce and expensive platinum-based electrocatalysts, the linear scaling relationships among the intermediates' adsorption energy limit maximum performance. Herein, we propose a coordination-adaptive catalyst design to bypass the intrinsic scaling relations through incorporating quasi-covalent Fe─F bond. Operando experiments and theoretical calculations demonstrate that the cleavage of Fe-F bond facilitates the activation of O2 and the formation of OOH\*, while the self-healing of Fe─F bond regulates the binding strength with O\* and OH\*, thus breaking the OH\*- OOH\*/O\* scaling relations. As a result, the well-designed F–Fe–N–C delivers a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.91 V (versus RHE), along with significantly improved stability with only 2 mV loss in *E*1/2 after 80,000 voltage cycles. When applied to the cathode of anion-exchange membrane fuel cell, F–Fe–N–C exhibits high peak power density of 813 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> under H2-air condition and achieves extremely high current (141 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at 0.9 ViR-free) in H2–O2 condition. This work not only offers a promising ORR electrocatalyst but also provides a new strategy to circumvent the fundamental constraint-linear scaling relationships.

### *Introduction*

Owing to the merits of high energy conversion efficiency, zero-carbon emissions, and safe operation, the polymer electrolyte fuel cells (PEFCs) represent one of the most important technologies to achieve a sustainable hydrogen society.[\[1–4\]](#page-8-0) In spite of these advantages, the sluggish kinetics of oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) originates from multiple electron/proton transfer steps, lowers the energy conversion efficiency, and thus poses a significant challenge on the widespread commercialization of PEFCs.[\[5,6\]](#page-8-0) Motivated by this challenge, efficient electrocatalysts that can accelerate ORR kinetics are necessitated and the best-performing ORR electrocatalysts are dominated by Pt-based ones, However, the high cost and scarcity propel the search for Pt-free alternatives with comparable catalytic performance.[\[7–9\]](#page-8-0)

The past decades have witnessed significant progress in the development of nonprecious metal ORR electrocatalysts. Among the various candidates, iron and nitrogen co-doped carbon (Fe–N–C) materials with atomic Fe–N*<sup>x</sup>* moieties as active sites have attracted particular attention owing to maximum atomic utilization, definite active sites structure,

[\*] X. Wang+, Y. Zeng+, Prof. M. Xiao, Prof. C. Liu, Prof. J. Zhu, Prof. W. Xing

State Key Laboratory of Electroanalytic Chemistry, Jilin Province Key Laboratory of Low Carbon Chemistry Power, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, China

E-mail: [mlxiao@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:mlxiao@ciac.ac.cn) [liuchp@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:liuchp@ciac.ac.cn) [zjb@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:zjb@ciac.ac.cn) [xingwei@ciac.ac.cn](mailto:xingwei@ciac.ac.cn)

X. Wang+, Y. Zeng+, Prof. M. Xiao, Prof. C. Liu, Prof. J. Zhu, Prof. W. Xing

School of Applied Chemistry and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China

K. Li+, Prof. W. Liu

State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth Resource Utilization, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, China

L. Lu

National Facility for Protein Science in Shanghai, Shanghai

Advanced Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 201210, China

Prof. M. Shao

Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong 999077, China

Prof. M. Shao

CIAC-HKUST Joint Laboratory for Hydrogen Energy, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong 999077, China

Prof. M. Shao

Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Energy Storage Technologies, Fok Ying Tung Research Institute, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Guangzhou 511458, China

Prof. M. Xiao, Prof. C. Liu, Prof. J. Zhu, Prof. W. Xing CIAS-HKUST Joint Laboratory for Hydrogen Energy, Changchun 130022, China

- +] These authors contributed equally to this work.
- Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section

and manipulative coordination environments. [10-12] Since Fe-N-C materials are located at the strong binding leg of the so-called volcano curve, [13-15] the extremely strong affinity of intermediates results in considerable energy barrier of the OH\* desorption, which is usually considered as the ratedetermining step (RDS).[16-19] In this context, tremendous efforts have been devoted to precisely tailoring the microenvironments of Fe-N<sub>x</sub> sites toward accelerated OH\* desorption, i.e., defect engineering, [20] heteroatoms substitution, [21] axial ligand modification, [22] and constructing dual-atom centered sites.<sup>[23]</sup> However, the intrinsic linear scaling relationships  $(\Delta G_{\text{OOH}^*} = \Delta G_{\text{OH}^*} + 3.2 \text{ eV}, \Delta G_{\text{O}^*} = 2\Delta G_{\text{OH}^*}) \text{ impose}$ the classic Sabatier's restrictions and thus an inherent activity limitation.<sup>[24]</sup> To be specific, the as-proposed strategies to weaken OH\* affinity would simultaneously result in decreased binding strength of OOH\* adsorption, not only retarding the oxygen activation step, but also probably switching the ORR selectivity from 4e<sup>-</sup> pathway to undesirable 2e<sup>-</sup> pathway. Although dual-atom sites catalysts that enable an alternative reaction mechanism excluding OOH\* have been proposed to break the scaling relations towards improved ORR performance, such an ideal catalyst model regrettably requires elaborate atomic level control on the active site structure.[25] Therefore, developing innovative and practical strategies to circumvent the OH\*-OOH\*/O\* scaling relations is highly desirable but remains challenging.

Intriguingly, the structure adaptive catalysts trigged by different adsorbates'adsorption and varying coverage levels have been demonstrated to break the scaling relations, exemplified by phenomena such as the highly fluxional behavior of subnanometer clusters, [26] variable curvature, [27] dynamic metal-adsorbate coordination changes, [28] and bond length evolution.<sup>[29]</sup>This dynamic behavior enables the independent optimization of different intermediates, which effectively circumvents the linear scaling relationships that constrain conventional catalysts. This concept inspires us to design a geometry-adaptive electrocatalyst, which can easily adapt its structures to the bound adsorbates without the coherent scaling relations. Considering that heteroatoms' substitution could induce structural asymmetricity and thus the dynamic structure evolution, we propose heteroatom substituted Fe-N-C as a geometry-adaptive model system. Through computing the Fe-X (X represents heteroatoms) bond strength, we screen the most structurally flexible fluorine (F) as the dopant. The crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) analysis (Figure S1) shows that the Fe-F exhibits highest integrated COHP (ICOHP) value, corresponding to the weakest bond strength. This provides an opportunity for dynamic structure regulation through either bond breaking or regenerating during the ORR process.

As a proof-of-concept, we herein report a F dopant substituted Fe-N-C catalyst (F-Fe-N-C) by pyrolyzing F-ZnFe-MIL (MIL, Matérial Institut Lavoisier). The dynamic structure evolution, i.e., axial spontaneous OH adsorption and Fe-F bond cleavage, is monitored by X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and in situ Raman spectroscopy. The presence of OH ligand is capable of weakening the adsorption energy of oxygen-containing intermediates, while the Fe-F bond breakage/regeneration regulates OOH\*/OH\*

adsorption-desorption behaviors independently. This hypothesis is further confirmed by density functional theory (DFT) calculations, demonstrating cleavage of Fe-F bond benefits oxygen activation to form OOH\*, while the Fe-F bond repairing weakens OH\* adsorption, thus bypassing the conventional scaling relations. As a result, the designed F-Fe-N-C catalyst delivers superior ORR activity with halfwave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  of 0.91 V (versus RHE), outperforming the commercial Pt/C (0.89 V). In addition, F-Fe-N-C sample displays a high durability for ORR of 80000 cycles with negligible loss of  $E_{1/2}$ . More importantly, F-Fe-N-C-based anion exchange membrane fuel cell (AEMFC) delivers high current density in the kinetic voltage range (>0.75 V) and excellent maximum power density, demonstrating its huge potential for the practical application in fuel cells.

#### **Results and Discussion**

The F-Fe-N-C catalyst was fabricated through the pyrolysis of F-ZnFe-MIL and CF<sub>3</sub>COOH as F source (Schematic S1). To clarify the important role of F and Fe, the control Fe-N-C, F-N-C, and N-C samples without F or Fe atoms were also prepared. The successful synthesis of F-ZnFe-MIL precursor with nanoflower-like structure is confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure S2), which shows identical diffraction peaks with those of simulated MIL-53. Notably, The F-Fe-N-C possesses a wrinkled nanosheet structure after heat treatment (Figure S3). The type IV isotherm illustrates mesopore characteristic of F-Fe-N-C with Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area of 428.8 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>(Figure S4).<sup>[30]</sup> Moreover, the hierarchical micropore-mesopore structure is further confirmed by the pore size distributions, in which micropore and mesopore are centered at 1.35 and 4.22 nm, respectively. This hierarchical pore structure favors the exposure and accessibility of the active sites and reactant diffusivity to achieve the increased ORR performance. The degree of carbon defect was characterized by D band to G band intensity ratio  $(I_D/I_G)$ . The comparable  $I_D/I_G$  values for F-Fe-N-C and Fe-N-C (Figure \$5) indicate similar carbon matrix properties. The XRD pattern of F-Fe-N-C (Figure S6) delivers broad graphitic carbon characteristic peak at 25° without impurity phase, consistent with the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figures 1a and S7). In the aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image (Figure 1b), large amounts of bright dots highlighted with red circles indicate the existence of numerous atomic Fe sites.[8] Atomic-resolved electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) was performed to determine the spatial configuration of Fe. The EELS spectra obtained directly around the singleatom Fe site show the co-existence of F, N, and Fe elements (Figure S8). In line with this observation, elemental mapping further reveals the overlap of F and N signals with Fe at atomic scale, implying possible Fe-F/N bonding (Figure 1c). Uniform distribution of Fe throughout the carbon matrix

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Structural characterizations and local coordination environment of F–Fe–N–C. a) TEM image and SAED pattern, b) HAADF-STEM image, and c) EELS elemental mapping of F–Fe–N–C. d) Fe K-edge XANES spectra of F–Fe–N–C and reference samples. e) CV curves of F–Fe–N–C and Fe–N–C under  $N_2$  saturation in DMF (catalyst concentration 0.5 mM) with TBAP as supporting electrolyte. The scan rate is 0.02 V s<sup>-1</sup>. f) FT-EXAFS and g) WT-EXAFS spectra of F–Fe–N–C and reference samples.

is certified by energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping (Figure S9) and the Fe loading is determined to be 2.02 wt% by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS; Table S1).

The chemical environments of F-Fe-N-C and counterparts were detected by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figures S10-S15). Typically, graphitic-N, pyrrolic-N, Fe-N<sub>r</sub>, and pyridinic-N signals can be distinguished in the deconvolved high resolution N 1s spectra. The Fe- $N_x$ peak of F-Fe-N-C shows a slightly positive shift compared with that of Fe-N-C, implying change in the coordination environment of Fe centers.[32] X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) analysis indicates that the absorption threshold for both F-Fe-N-C and Fe-N-C locate between Fe foil and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> (Figure 1d), suggesting the positively charged Fe sites. Specially, F–Fe–N–C exhibits a slightly lower absorption energy than the Fe-N-C, indicating the enriched electron density of Fe center in the F-Fe-N-C. Quantitative analysis from the first derivative spectra reveals that the valence state of Fe in F-Fe-N-C and Fe-N-C are + 2 and + 2.3, respectively (Figure 1d inset). The increased electron density of Fe induced by F incorporation is verified through Fe L-edge XANES (Figure \$16). Compared to standard sample FeF3 and Fe-N-C counterpart, F-Fe-N-C exhibits negative shift in both the L<sub>3</sub> and L<sub>2</sub>-edges, implying the decreased valence state of Fe.[33,34] Notably, the different spectra shape of F–Fe–N–C and Fe–N–C implies the different coordination environment. Moreover, cyclic voltammogram (CV) curves recorded in N, N-dimethylformamide (DMF) with tetrabutylammonium perchlorate (TBAP) electrolyte further confirmed this. Both F–Fe–N–C and Fe–N–C exhibit quasi-reversible redox process. Comparing the peak potential ( $E_{\rm P}$ ) and half-wave potential ( $E_{\rm 1/2}$ ) of F–Fe–N–C and Fe–N–C, it can be found that the more negative of F–Fe–N–C, indicating the lower valence state of Fe after F-doping (Figures 1e and S17).[35]

The detailed coordination information of Fe was revealed through Fourier transform (FT) Fe K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS). Clearly, the FT-EXAFS spectra of both F-Fe-N-C and Fe-N-C indicate the presence of a scattering path at similar radial distances (ca. 1.5 A) as that for the FePc standard sample (Figure 1f). The best-fitting result shows a coordination number of 4 in the first shell of Fe species for Fe-N-C (Figure \$18 and Table S2), demonstrating that each Fe atom is coordinated with four N atoms. This local  $D_{4h}$  symmetry is broken after F-doping. In F-Fe-N-C sample, original pyridinic-N atom is replaced by fluorine, Fe is bonded with three pyridinic-N and F is directly coordinated with Fe center, forming FeN<sub>3</sub>-F moieties. Wavelet transform (WT) EXAFS analysis was further conducted to offer powerful resolution in K space and R space. In Figure 1g, the three samples (F-Fe-N-C, Fe-N-C,

<span id="page-3-0"></span>*Figure 2.* Evaluation of electrocatalytic performance of prepared catalysts for ORR. a) ORR polarization curves of F–Fe–N–C, Fe–N–C, F–N–C, N–C, and Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH under a rotating rate of 1600 rpm. b) *j*<sup>K</sup> at 0.88 V, *E*1/2 and c) Tafel slopes for these catalysts. d) SD and TOF of F–Fe–N–C and Fe–N–C. e) ORR polarization curves of F–Fe–N–C before and after 80k CV cycles, Fe–N–C and Pt/C before and after 10k CV cycles. f) Quantitative comparison of the amount of Fe dissolution during CV cycles. g) Comparison of cycles numbers and *E*1/2 of F–Fe–N–C with those of recently reported catalysts.

and FePc) with a Fe─N/F bond feature an intensity maximum of around 3.8 Å−1, and the Fe foil delivers the prominent Fe─Fe bond at 7.6 Å−1. The above analysis indicates two kinds of coordination structure, where the Fe–N–C possesses the typical FeN4 moieties but F–Fe–N–C features asymmetry FeN3–F model.

The ORR performance of the synthesized catalysts was subsequently evaluated by rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) in 0.1 M KOH. Clearly, the pyrolyzed F–Fe–N–C catalyst demonstrates a temperature-dependent ORR performance with the optimum performance achieved at the pyrolysis temperature of 900 °C, due to the trade-off between conductivity of carbon matrix and active site density (Figure S19). The superiority of F–Fe– N–C is verified by showing the highest catalytic activity, with onset potential (*E*onset) of 1.09 V and *E*1/2 of 0.91 V (Figure 2a), outperforming Fe–N–C (*E*onset of 0.95 V, *E*1/2 of 0.86 V), F– N–C (*E*onset of 0.91 V, *E*1/2 of 0.82 V), N–C (*E*onset of 0.85 V, *E*1/2 of 0.77 V), and Pt/C (*E*onset of 1.03 V, *E*1/2 of 0.89 V). The significantly improved ORR performance of Fe-containing samples implies the dominated contribution of Fe sites rather than Zn–N*<sup>x</sup>* site, which is further confirmed by the nonpositive correlation between Zn content and ORR performance of the samples with different Zn/Fe ratios (Figure S20). Besides, F–Fe–N–C exhibits the highest kinetic current density (*j*K) of 29.02 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at 0.88 V (Figure 2b), which is 10.1 and 3.3 times higher than that of Fe–N–C (2.62 mA cm−2) and Pt/C catalyst (6.74 mA cm−2), respectively. Furthermore, the lowest Tafel value of 46.6 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> is observed on F–Fe–N–C, indicating a faster ORR kinetic on F–Fe–N–C (Figure 2c). The enlarged electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), confirmed by highest electrochemical doublelayer capacitance (*C*dl) of 22.31 mF cm−2, may account for the accelerated ORR electrocatalysis on F–Fe–N–C sample (Figure S21). In order to unveil the origins of superior ORR activity, the intrinsic activity of every Fe site was assessed through in situ electrochemical nitrite stripping.[\[9,36\]](#page-8-0) The calculated activity sites density (SD) for F–Fe–N–C and Fe– N–C is 5.3 × 10<sup>19</sup> sites g−<sup>1</sup> and 4.4 × 1019 sites g−1, respectively (Figure 2d), demonstrating the increased accessible active

sites upon fluorine doping. More impressively, F–Fe–N–C displays significantly higher turnover frequency (TOF) of 5.72 e site−1s−<sup>1</sup> at 0.88 V, representing 8.1 folds that of Fe–N–C (0.71 e site−1s−1). This result convincingly testifies that F incorporation not only increased the accessible site density but also boosted the intrinsic activity of per site, thus achieving excellent catalytic properties.

F doping effects on ORR selectivity and stability were also investigated as they are crucial performance parameters for an electrocatalyst. The ORR selectivity was first evaluated by RRDE, showing a nearly identical 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR pathway with low HO2 <sup>−</sup> yield (<0.7%) on F–Fe–N–C electrode (Figure S22). This result is also consistent with the Koutecky– Levich (K–L) analysis. The electron transfer number is calculated to be 3.91 to 3.93 on F–Fe–N–C over the potential range from 0.4 to 0.7 V (Figure S23). Accelerated stress tests (ASTs) were conducted by cycling the potential from 0.6 to 1.0 V in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte to evaluate the long-term durability. Negligible deactivation is observed for F–Fe–N–C after 80k continuous cycles with only 2 mV decay in *E*1/2, manifesting its exceptional stability (Figures [2e\)](#page-3-0). In sharp contrast, Fe–N–C delivers 30 mV negative shift in *E*1/2 even after 10k cycles. The dramatically improved stability reveals the indispensable role of F dopant in ORR performance retention. Considering the fact that Fe ion leaching from active sites significantly accounts for the activity decay, the amount of dissolved Fe along with CV cycling was evaluated by ICP-MS. Figure [2f](#page-3-0) illustrates that the percentage of dissolved Fe reaches as high as 2.66% during the initial 10k CV cycling in Fe–N–C, indicating that there is abundant unstable Fe-based substance. Moreover, the Fe leaches out rapidly with a high dissolution rate (from 2.66% to 6.94% during 100k CV cycling). However, the metal dissolution rate is obviously reduced in F–Fe– N–C, which exhibits a lower demetalation rate of 1.12% (10k CV cycles) to 2.86% (100k CV cycles). This result indicates that the incorporation of F could significantly inhibit the dissolution of Fe. Such a regulation effect might originate from increased electron density of Fe induced by F, which strengthened the Fe─N bond and thus suppressing electrochemical Fe leaching.[\[37,38\]](#page-9-0) Moreover, Fe atoms remain atomically dispersed within the carbon skeleton after the stability test, preserving the critical single-atom Fe sites (Figure S24a). EELS spectra acquired at individual Fe sites confirm the presence of F and N around Fe centers, directly evidencing the stability of the Fe–N/F coordination structure (Figure S24b). The EELS elemental mapping analysis further corroborates the uniform spatial distribution of Fe, N, and F elements (Figure S24c). These findings align with Fe K-edge FT-EXAFS analysis of the post-stability sample, which retains coordination characteristics identical to the pristine catalyst, maintaining the atomic dispersed state without detectable metal aggregation (Figure S25 and Table S3). Due to the electronic modulation effect from F doping, the as-designed F–Fe–N–C catalyst exhibits simultaneously enhanced activity and stability, superior to most of the state-of-the-art ORR catalysts (Figure [2g\)](#page-3-0).[\[18,39–60\]](#page-8-0)

The impressive catalytic properties of F–Fe–N–C inspire us to investigate the practical application potential in AEMFC. The F–Fe–N–C used as cathode was integrated into a home-made membrane electrode assembly (MEA). For comparison, commercial Pt/C cathode-based MEA was also prepared. First, the MEAs were measured under 1.5 bar H2–O2 conditions at 80 °C. The MEA performance is optimized by considering different combinations of ionomer and anion exchange membrane (Figure S26 and Table S4). The F–Fe–N–C-based MEA delivers an open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.02 V, higher than that of 0.99 V in Pt/Cbased cell (Figure [3a\)](#page-5-0). The F–Fe–N–C delivers higher current density compared with Pt/C-based MEA in the kinetic region (>0.75 V), effectively illustrating the accelerated ORR dynamics (Figure [3b\)](#page-5-0). Notably, F–Fe–N–C cathode shows an exceptional current density of 141 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at 0.9 ViR-free, much surpassing the US DOE 2025 target (44 mA cm−2). At 0.8 ViR-free, the current density of F-Fe-N-C-based MEA is up to 1120 mA cm−2, which is four times than that of Pt/C cathode. The corresponding maximal peak power density (*P*max) of F–Fe–N–C-based MEA is 921 mW cm−2. The slightly lower *P*max compared with Pt/C may originate from higher mass transfer resistance caused by thicker catalytic layer thickness. Although the *P*max is lower than Pt-based MEA, the performance for F–Fe–N–C MEA ranks among the highest for PGM-free AEMFC cathode catalysts (Figure [3c](#page-5-0) and Table S5). Besides, the performance under practical conditions was measured under 1.5 bar H2-air conditions under 80 °C. Impressively, F–Fe–N–C-based MEA displays a higher *P*max of 813 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> than the Pt/C benchmark (Figure [3d\)](#page-5-0). The catalytic activity and stability of F–Fe–N– C were further evaluated in rechargeable zine–air battery (ZAB). The F–Fe–N–C based ZAB delivers a *P*max of 115.5 mW cm−2, higher than Pt/C based ZAB (68.8 mW cm−2) (Figure S27a). Moreover, the galvanostatic discharge and charge cycling curves were collected to demonstrate the operation durability. F–Fe–N–C based ZABs presents no noticeable voltage change after even 664 h (Figure S27b), suggesting the feasibility of F–Fe–N–C catalysts for long-term use. The above results demonstrate that F–Fe–N–C can serve as a highly promising cathode for the practical application in both AEMFC and ZAB.

In situ surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS), a fingerprint spectroscopy technique with ultrahigh surface sensitivity was carried out to monitor possible change in active sites. As depicted in Figure [4a,](#page-6-0) one distinct broad peak at 711 cm−<sup>1</sup> is observed for F–Fe–N–C after immersed in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (OCP) and maintained in the whole potential window. This signal is assignable to the O─H stretching vibration of the adsorbed OH species. [\[61\]](#page-9-0) However, the peak of ν(OH−) is absent in the spectra of Fe-N-C, suggesting that the indispensable role of F incorporation in facilitating spontaneous OH adsorption. This hypothesis is further demonstrated by the normalized Raman intensity of ν(OH−) recorded in Figure [4b,](#page-6-0) where a steep increase from 0.10 (pristine) to 0.25 (OCP) is observed for F–Fe– N–C, whereas almost constant strength around 0.02–0.06 is found in Fe–N–C. The OH ligand has been demonstrated to be capable of downshifting the d-band center (εd) of Fe,[\[62\]](#page-9-0) which in turn favors the desorption of ORR intermediates (the detail can be seen below). To further unveil the nature

<span id="page-5-0"></span>*Figure 3.* Performance of AEMFC. a) H2–O2 AEMFC performance of F–Fe–N–C and Pt/C. b) Discharge polarization curves of F–Fe–N–C and Pt/C under iR-free condition in H2–O2 AEMFC. The yellow star denotes the US DOE target for 2025. c) Comparison of *P*max and current density at 0.9 V under H2–O2 AEMFC of F–Fe–N–C with those of recently reported catalysts. d) H2-air (CO2 free) AEMFC performance of F–Fe–N–C and Pt/C.

of the electrocatalytic active sites in the F–Fe–N–C and Fe– N–C samples under ORR condition, the XAS was conducted to monitor the electronic and geometric structure changes before and after socking into electrolyte. The normalized Fe K-edge XANES spectra are shown in Figure [4c.](#page-6-0) Notable, the decreased peak intensity in the rising-edge region indicates a coordination transition from a planar configuration (FeN3- F) for dry sample to a noncentrosymmetric coordination geometry after socking into KOH solution, likely resulting from the axial OH ligand detected by Raman spectroscopy.[\[63\]](#page-9-0) By contrast, the variation in pre-edge peak intensity of Fe– N–C is smaller (Figure S28), revealing a relatively stable FeN4 configuration. In addition, EXAFS spectra provide quantitative insights into the coordination environment of the Fe centers. The FT-EXAFS spectra of the Fe K-edge and the corresponding first-shell fitting results clearly illustrate a near-range coordination structure change of F–Fe–N–C after immersing into KOH solution (Figure [4d\)](#page-6-0). To be specific, a new Fe–O path with coordination number of 1.0 is detected in the sample treated with KOH solution (Table S6), corresponding to the spontaneously adsorbed OH ligand. Besides, the Fe–F path is absent, demonstrating the Fe─F bond is broken after OH adsorption (Figure [4e\)](#page-6-0). By contrast, the Fe–N–C maintains the well-defined FeN4 coordination structure without chemical bond cleavage or OH adsorption (Figure S29). In summary, both the operando Raman and XAS studies clearly indicate the adaptive coordination change of Fe center in working condition. Specifically, spontaneous OH adsorption induced Fe─F bond breaking, thus yielding FeN3-OH motif as operational active site. Moreover, the surface phase diagram of F–Fe–N–C at various potentials also verifies this. The computed adsorption Gibbs free energy of OH (-*G*OH) was employed to estimate the thermodynamic stability of OH on the Fe sites. As shown in Figure [4f,g,](#page-6-0) the -*G*OH is calculated to be –1.6 eV in F–Fe–N– C even at *U*RHE = 0 V, verifying that spontaneous absorption of OH. Increasing the potential results to a decreased value of -*G*OH, revealing that OH ligand can firmly absorb on the Fe site in the entire ORR potential window. By contrast, the Fe–N–C site exhibits positive -*G*OH at *U*RHE = 0 V, revealing no spontaneous absorption of OH on Fe sites, which is in line with XAS and Raman analysis.

Based on the in situ characterization, the HO-FeN3─F (broken Fe─F bond), FeN3–F and FeN4 models were constructed to gain molecular insights into enhanced ORR activity by F doping (Figure S30). Compared with other possible configurations (Figure S31 and S32 and Table S7), only FeN3F simultaneously satisfies moderate formation

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. In situ characterization of the ORR catalytic mechanism. a) In situ Raman spectra of Fe–N–C and F–Fe–N–C. b) Comparison of the intensity of Raman signals for Fe–N–C and F–Fe–N–C at 711 cm<sup>-1</sup>. c) Fe K-edge XANES spectra and d) FT-EXAFS spectra of F–Fe–N–C before and after immersed into KOH. e) Schematic diagram of in-situ reconfiguration of F–Fe–N–C. f) and g) Surface phase diagram of F–Fe–N–C and Fe–N–C as a function of applied potentials.

energy (accessibility under synthesis conditions), lower Bader charge (consistent with experimental Fe valence), superior ORR activity (via free-energy calculations), thereby emerging as the optimal configuration. The electronic localization functions (ELF) plots illustrate that FeN<sub>4</sub> displays a symmetric plane configuration with four stable Fe-N covalent bonds (Figure 5a). While the incorporation of F not only disrupted symmetry of electron structure but also decreased the structural stability by forming a quasi-covalent Fe-F bond. The weakened Fe-F bond, however, provides the possibility for its dynamic evolution under working conditions. Upon immersing into electrolyte, the spontaneous adsorbed OH pulls the Fe atom away from the FeN<sub>3</sub>-F plane, further elongating the Fe–F bond and thus yielding the HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>–F moiety. No electronic interaction between Fe-F is observed, verifying the Fe-F bond crack induced by OH adsorption. The geometric structure change will lead to tailored electronic structure as well. The charge density differences reveal that the central charge density of Fe decreases as FeN<sub>3</sub>-F (7.03 e) > FeN<sub>4</sub> (6.95 e) > HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F (6.75 e), demonstrating the balanced regulation role of F doping and OH binding on the electronic structure of Fe (Figures 5a and S33). The projected density of states (PDOS) analysis shows a downshift of  $\varepsilon_d$  of Fe in HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F (-1.31 eV versus -0.98 eV for

pristine FeN<sub>4</sub>; Figure S34a). Typically, the coupling between the O 2p orbitals of intermediates and the d-orbitals of the Fe atoms leads to bonding and anti-bonding states. The downshift of  $\varepsilon_d$  will cause the increase of anti-bonding filling, resulting in weaker adsorption (Figure S34b). Meanwhile, the more positive ICOHP (Table S8) further testifies weakened adsorption of ORR intermediates on HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—F site, which promisingly enhanced intrinsic ORR activity. [13].

The reaction energy for ORR elemental steps was calculated. The Gibbs free energy diagram depicted in Figure 5b clearly attests that the intrinsic activity of both original FeN<sub>4</sub> and OH-free FeN<sub>3</sub>-F moiety is limited by extremely strong binding of intermediates OH\* on Fe centers. In sharp contrast, the OH\* desorption step is thermodynamically favorable on the HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F configuration with an exothermic energy of 0.48 eV due to the weak binding strength. The RDS transforms to the conversion of O\* to OH\* with a theoretical overpotential of 0.30 V, significantly lower than that of FeN<sub>4</sub> (0.66 V) and FeN<sub>3</sub>-F (0.53 V) sites. More interestingly, the best-performing HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F structure exhibits a distinctive Fe-F cleavage and re-bonding dynamic evolution during the ORR process. Specifically, the first step of O<sub>2</sub>\* activation to OOH\* occurs on HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F sites with broken Fe-F bond, whereas the broken Fe-F bond will be repaired when OH\*

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. Elucidation of the enhanced ORR activity. a) Top: the ELF of FeN<sub>4</sub>, FeN<sub>3</sub>-F and HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—F (blue and red represent charge depletion and accumulation, respectively). Down: the corresponding charge density differences. b) The free energy diagram of ORR under the electrode potential of 1.23 V. c) Linear scaling relations of  $\Delta G_{OOH^*}$  versus  $\Delta G_{OH^*}$  and  $\Delta G_{O^*}$  versus  $\Delta G_{OH}^*$  on different configurations. d) Schematic illustration of the ORR process via structure self-adaptive mechanism on F—Fe–N–C.

and O\* intermediates are bounded. ELF plots also reveal the structure dynamics of Fe—F bond as the quasi-covalent bond characteristics, which is observed after either OH\* or O\* adsorption (Figure S35). The recovered Fe—F bond after O\* adsorption is further demonstrated by Bader charge analysis (Figure S36). The higher positive charge of Fe will induce stronger attraction with the negatively charged F upon O\* adsorption, thus driving the reformation of the Fe—F bond. This adaptively dynamic evolution in Fe—F bond will regulate the adsorption energy of intermediates independently. Therefore, the linear scaling relationships are expected to bypass.

To highlight the advantage of dynamic configuration on the intermediates' adsorption energy, the HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F and HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—(F) with the Fe—F bond maintained bonded and broken throughout ORR process, respectively were proposed for comparison. Clearly, higher energy barrier of OOH\* formation is required on the HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F site compared with those of HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—F and HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—(F) when U=1.23 V, suggesting the Fe—F bond breaking can strengthen OOH\* adsorption toward accelerated O<sub>2</sub> activation (Figure S37). On the contrary, the Fe—F re-bonding will weaken the binding strength with intermediates on both HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F and HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—F configurations, where the OH\* desorption process is spontaneous. In comparison, this step on HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>—(F) shows an energy barrier of 0.60 eV. The weakened affinity with OH\* results in faster OH\* desorption process toward

boosted ORR kinetics. These results definitely demonstrate the enhanced OOH\* adsorption and weakened OH\* adsorption can be simultaneously achieved on the structure-adaptive HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F site, implying the inherent scaling relations between  $\Delta G_{\text{OOH}^*}$  and  $\Delta G_{\text{OH}^*}$  are broken. When plotting  $\Delta G_{\rm OOH^*}/\Delta G_{\rm O^*}$  against  $\Delta G_{\rm OH^*}$ , fitted linear scaling relations (Figure \$38) are discerned on these sites without dynamic evolution, i.e., FeN<sub>4</sub>, FeN<sub>3</sub>-F, HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F and HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-(F). Notably, only the HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F that can adapt to bound states deviates obviously from the linear scaling relation (Figure 5c and Table S9), strongly confirming the bypassed inherent dependence of intermediates' adsorption energy. On the basis of these results, we proposed a dynamic structure self-adaptive mechanism for the ORR in alkaline aqueous solution catalyzed by our F-Fe-N-C sample (Figure 5d). To be specific, the dynamic evolution of FeN<sub>3</sub>-F to HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F is facilely initiated by the attack of free OH<sup>-</sup> and the subsequent breakage of Fe-F bond. The as-generated HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F acts as reaction center for the OOH\* adsorption. In the subsequent electron transfer step (from OOH\* to O\*), broken Fe-F bond can be recovered. The binding strength of O\* and OH\* on this repaired HO-FeN<sub>3</sub>-F site is significantly decreased owing to the preciously tuned electron configuration of Fe center. Overall, the adsorption site structures bonding with OOH\*, O\*, and OH\* are dynamically reconstructed throughout ORR process due to the geometry adaptation of Fe-F bond. 15213757, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.2025.13102 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (Common Library) on the Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common License (Common Library) on the Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Therefore, the independent regulation of adsorption energy can be achieved to encounter the constraint of the scaling relations.

### *Conclusion*

In summary, we demonstrate that the structure-adaptive strategy could bypass Sabatier's limitation via incorporating dynamic Fe─F bond. Operando experiments and DFT calculation directly confirm the cleavage of Fe─F bond initiated by spontaneous OH adsorption in the electrolyte. The in situ generated HO-FeN3─F acts as real active site to accelerate oxygen activation and the first electron transfer reaction, while the subsequent electron transfer steps occur on the HO-FeN3-F sites with self-healing Fe─F bond. Benefiting from this dynamic structure self-adaptive mechanism, the intermediates' adsorption energy can be tailored independently without the inherent linear scaling relations, thus breaking the theoretical performance limitation. As a result, the F– Fe–N–C catalyst presents an impressive ORR performance, with a half-wave potential of 0.91 V and over 99.7% activity retention after 80000 potential cycles. More importantly, its practical application in AEMFC is further verified by showing excellent current density in the kinetic voltage range (>0.75 V) and ultra-high peak power density in a homemade fuel cell prototype. This work not only affords a highly promising Pt-free ORR electrocatalyst but also highlights a novel structure-adaptive design concept to bypass intrinsic scaling relations for heterogenous catalysis.

### *Acknowledgements*

The authors thank the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2021YFB4001200, 2021YFB4001202), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22272161, 22179126), and Jilin Province Science and Technology Development Program (20230101367JC) and also thank the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility for conducting the X-ray absorption spectroscopy experiments at BL17B1 and BL08U1A station. The computational time is supported by the computing center of Jilin Province. The authors thank Hao Li (Tohoku University) for the discussion on theoretical calculations.

### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Coordination environment • Oxygen reduction reaction • Scaling relations • Structure-adaptive catalyst

- [1] Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, S. Dou, X. Li, J. Wang, X. Wang, *Matter* **2019**, *1*, 1494–1518.
- [2] M. T. Koper, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 255–256.
- [3] W. Yuan, L. Zeng, J. Wang, S. Jiang, L. Li, Q. Liao, Z. Wei, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33* 2307041.
- [4] H. Yang, Y. Liu, X. W. X. Liu, H. Tian, G. Waterhouse, P. Kruger, S. Telfer, S. Ma, *eScience* **2022**, *2*, 227–234.
- [5] T. Marshall-Roth, N. J. Libretto, A. T. Wrobel, K. J. Anderton, M. L. Pegis, N. D. Ricke, T. V. Voorhis, J. T. Miller, Y. Surendranath, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5283.
- [6] X. Xie, C. He, B. Li, Y. He, D. A. Cullen, E. C. Wegener, A. J. Kropf, U. Martinez, Y. Cheng, M. H. Engelhard, M. E. Bowden, M. Song, T. Lemmon, X. S. Li, Z. Nie, J. Liu, D. J. Myers, P. Zelenay, G. Wang, G. Wu, V. Ramani, Y. Shao, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 1044–1054.
- [7] M. Yan, Z. Wei, Z. Gong, B. Johannessen, G. Ye, G. He, J. Liu, S. Zhao, C. Cui, H. Fei, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 368.
- [8] H. Tian, A. Song, P. Zhang, K. Sun, J. Wang, B. Sun, Q. Fan, G. Shao, C. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Li, G. Wang, *Adv.Mater* **2023**, *35*, 2210714.
- [9] A. Mehmood, M. Gong, F. Jaouen, A. Roy, A. Zitolo, A. Khan, M.-T. Sougrati, M. Primbs, A. M. Bonastre, D. Fongalland, G. Drazic, P. Strasser, A. Kucernak, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 311– 323.
- [10] X. Zhao, R. Fang, F. Wang, X. Kong, Y. Li, *JACS Au* **2023**, *3*, 185–194.
- [11] Y. Chen, S. Ji, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Joule* **2018**, *2*, 1242–1264.
- [12] A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M. T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, 937–942.
- [13] Y. Dai, B. Liu, Z. Zhang, P. Guo, C. Liu, Y. Zhang, L. Zhao, Z. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, e2210757.
- [14] E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, M. Lefevre, N. Larouche, J. Tian, J. Herranz, J. P. Dodelet, *Nat. Commun.* **2011**, *2*, 416.
- [15] X. Wan, X. Liu, Y. Li, R. Yu, L. Zheng, W. Yan, H. Wang, M. Xu, J. Shui, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 259–268.
- [16] L. Yu, Y. Li, Y. Ruan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 25296– 25301.
- [17] Y. Zhou, R. Lu, X. Tao, Z. Qiu, G. Chen, J. Yang, Y. Zhao, X. Feng, K. Mullen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 3647–3655.
- [18] S. H. Ahn, X. Yu, A. Manthiram, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606534.
- [19] J. Li, M. T. Sougrati, A. Zitolo, J. M. Ablett, I. C. Oguz, T. ˘ Mineva, I. Matanovic, P. Atanassov, Y. Huang, I. Zenyuk, A. Di Cicco, K. Kumar, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, G. Dražic, F. Jaouen, ´ *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *4*, 10–19.
- [20] J. Li, W. Xia, J. Tang, Y. Gao, C. Jiang, Y. Jia, T. Chen, Z. Hou, R. Qi, D. Jiang, T. Asahi, X. Xu, T. Wang, J. He, Y. Yamauchi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9280–9291.
- [21] H. Yin, P. Yuan, B.-A. Lu, H. Xia, K. Guo, G. Yang, G. Qu, D. Xue, Y. Hu, J. Cheng, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 12754–12762.
- [22] X. Wang, Y. An, L. Liu, L. Fang, Y. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Qi, T. Heine, T. Li, A. Kuc, M. Yu, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209746.
- [23] R. Gao, J. Wang, Z.-F. Huang, R. Zhang, W. Wang, L. Pan, J. Zhang, W. Zhu, X. Zhang, C. Shi, J. Lim, J.-J. Zou, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 614–623.
- [24] P. Guo, B. Liu, F. Tu, Y. Dai, Z. Zhang, Y. Xia, M. Ma, Y. Zhang, L. Zhao, Z. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 3077–3087.
- [25] F. Liu, R. Gao, C. Shi, L. Pan, Z.-F. Huang, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 25252–25263.
- [26] B. Zandkarimi, A. N. Alexandrova, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2019**, *10*, 460–467.
- [27] R. Cepitis, V. Ivaništšev, J. Rossmeisl, N. Kongi, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2024**, *14*, 2105–2113.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>

- [28] Z. Zhang, H. Zhao, S. Xi, Z. X, , X. Chi, H. Yang, Z. Chen, X. Yu, Y.-G. Wang, B. Liu, P. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2025**, *16*, 1301.
- [29] Z. Jin, D. Jiao, Y. Dong, L. Liu, J. Fan, M. Gong, X. Ma, Y. Wang, W. Zhang, L. Zhang, Z. Yu, D. Voiry, W. Zheng, X. Cui, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202318246.
- [30] G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734.
- [31] J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935–945.
- [32] J. Gu, L. Bai, H. Chen, X. Hu, *Science* **2019**, *364*, 1091–1094.
- [33] M. Gimenez-Marques, E. Bellido, T. Berthelot, T. Simon-Yarza, T. Hidalgo, R. Simon-Vazquez, A. Gonzalez-Fernandez, J. Avila, M. C. Asensio, R. Gref, P. Couvreur, C. Serre, P. Horcajada, *Small* **2018**, *14*, e1801900.
- [34] V. Murugesan, J. S. Cho, N. Govind, A. Andersen, M. J. Olszta, K. S. Han, G. Li, H. Lee, D. M. Reed, V. L. Sprenkle, S. Cho, S. K. Nune, D. Choi, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 1832–1843.
- [35] S. Amanullah, P. Saha, A. Dey, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 13579–13592.
- [36] Z. Jiang, X. Liu, X.-Z. Liu, S. Huang, Y. Liu, Z.-C. Yao, Y. Zhang, Q.-H. Zhang, L. Gu, L.-R. Zheng, L. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Fan, T. Tang, Z. Zhuang, J.-S. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1822.
- [37] X. b. Gao, Y. Wang, W. Xu, H. Huang, K. Zhao, H. Ye, Z.-Y. Zhou, N. Zheng, S.-G. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 15528– 15537.
- [38] C. Hu, G. Xing, W. Han, Y. Hao, C. Zhang, Y. Zhang, C. H. Kuo, H. Y. Chen, F. Hu, L. Li, S. Peng, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2405763.
- [39] X. Tao, R. Lu, L. Ni, V. Gridin, S. H. Al-Hilfi, Z. Qiu, Y. Zhao, U. I. Kramm, Y. Zhou, K. Müllen, *Mater. Horiz.* **2022**, *9*, 417–424.
- [40] L. Cui, L. Cui, Z. Li, J. Zhang, H. Wang, S. Lu, Y. Xiang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 16690–16695.
- [41] D. Deng, J. Qian, X. Liu, H. Li, D. Su, H. Li, H. Li, L. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2203471.
- [42] F. Li, G.-F. Han, H.-J. Noh, S.-J. Kim, Y. Lu, H. Y. Jeong, Z. Fu, J.-B. Baek, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2263–2269.
- [43] H. Li, Y. Wen, M. Jiang, Y. Yao, H. Zhou, Z. Huang, J. Li, S. Jiao, Y. Kuang, S. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2011289.
- [44] J. Li, S. Chen, N. Yang, M. Deng, S. Ibraheem, J. Deng, J. Li, L. Li, Z. Wei, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 7035–7039.
- [45] L. Li, N. Li, J. Xia, S. Zhou, X. Qian, F. Yin, G. He, H. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 2291–2301.
- [46] L. Li, X. Liu, J. Wang, R. Liu, Y. Liu, C. Wang, W. Yang, X. Feng, B. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 18723–18729.

- [47] M. Liu, N. Li, S. Cao, X. Wang, X. Lu, L. Kong, Y. Xu, X. H. Bu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107421.
- [48] L. Lyu, X. Hu, S. Lee, W. Fan, G. Kim, J. Zhang, Z. Zhou, Y.-M. Kang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 4803–4813.
- [49] Y. Qin, Z. Ou, C. Xu, J. Liu, Q. Lan, R. Jin, X. Xu, C. Guo, H. Li, Y. Si, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *440*, 135850.
- [50] T. Shen, X. Huang, S. Xi, W. Li, S. Sun, Y. Hou, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *68*, 184–194.
- [51] H.-Y. Tan, S.-C. Lin, J. Wang, J.-H. Chen, C.-J. Chang, C.-H. Hou, J.-J. Shyue, T.-R. Kuo, H. M. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 27054–27066.
- [52] M. Tong, F. Sun, G. Xing, C. Tian, L. Wang, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202314933.
- [53] T. Wang, X. Cao, H. Qin, L. Shang, S. Zheng, F. Fang, L. Jiao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21237–21241.
- [54] H. Xia, R. Pang, X. Dong, Q. Liu, J. Chen, E. Wang, J. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 25695–25704.
- [55] W. Yao, A. Hu, J. Ding, N. Wang, Z. Qin, X. Yang, K. Shen, L. Chen, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301894.
- [56] L. Yin, S. Zhang, M. Sun, S. Wang, B. Huang, Y. Du, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2302485.
- [57] W. Zang, A. Sumboja, Y. Ma, H. Zhang, Y. Wu, S. Wu, H. Wu, Z. Liu, C. Guan, J. Wang, S. J. Pennycook, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 8961–8969.
- [58] Z. Zhang, J. Sun, F. Wang, L. Dai, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2018**, *57*, 9038–9043.
- [59] F.-Y. Zheng, R. Li, S. Xi, F. Ai, J. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 8202–8212.
- [60] Z. Zhuang, L. Xia, J. Huang, P. Zhu, Y. Li, C. Ye, M. Xia, R. Yu, Z. Lang, J. Zhu, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, T. Zhai, Y. Zhao, S. Wei, J. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202212335.
- [61] X. Song, X.-G. Zhang, Y.-L. Deng, Z.-A. Nan, W. Song, Y. Wang, L. Lü, Q. Jiang, X. Jin, Y. Zheng, M. Chen, Z. Xie, J.-F. Li, Z.-Q. Tian, F. R. Fan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 12717–12725.
- [62] M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763–17770.
- [63] K. Ebner, A. H. Clark, V. A. Saveleva, G. Smolentsev, J. Chen, L. Ni, J. Li, A. Zitolo, F. Jaouen, U. I. Kramm, T. J. Schmidt, J. Herranz, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103699.

Manuscript received: June 16, 2025 Revised manuscript received: August 11, 2025 Manuscript accepted: August 28, 2025 Version of record online: September 04, 2025