---
source: Wang 等 - 2023 - Activating Single‐Atom Ni Site via First‐Shell Si Modulation Boosts Oxygen Reduction Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.620s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:28:14.900115Z
---

# **Activating Single-Atom Ni Site via First-Shell Si Modulation Boosts Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Fangqing Wang, Ying Li, Rui Zhang, Hui Liu,\* Yangyang Zhang, Xuerong Zheng, Jun Zhang, Cong Chen, Shijian Zheng,\* and Huolin L. Xin\**

**Atomically dispersed nitrogen-coordinated 3d transition-metal site on carbon support (M-NC) are promising alternatives to Pt group metal-based catalysts toward oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). However, despite the excellent activities of most of M-NC catalysts, such as Fe-NC, Co-NC et al., their durability is far from satisfactory due to Fenton reaction. Herein, this work reports a novel Si-doped Ni-NC catalyst (Ni-SiNC) that possesses high activity and excellent stability. X-ray absorption fine structure and aberrationcorrected transmission electron microscopy uncover that the single-atom Ni site is coordinated with one Si atom and three N atoms, constructing Ni-Si1N3 moiety. The Ni-SiNC catalyst exhibits a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.866 V versus RHE, with a distinguished long-term durability in alkaline media of only 10 mV negative shift in E1/2 after 35 000 cycles, which is also validated in Zn-air battery. Density functional theory calculations reveal that the Ni-Si1N3 moiety facilitates ORR kinetics through optimizing the adsorption of intermediates.**

**1. Introduction**

Developing low-cost and high-efficient catalysts toward oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) plays a key role in realizing the wide scale utilization of fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[1,2] Until now, Pt group metal-based materials are thought to the most advanced commercial ORR catalysts have been thoroughly

F. Wang, Y. Li, H. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Zhang, C. Chen, S. Zheng Key Laboratory of Special Functional Materials for Ecological Environment and Information Ministry of Education School of Material Science and Engineering

Hebei University of Technology

Tianjin 300130, P. R. China

E-mail: liuhui2013@hebut.edu.cn; sjzheng@hebut.edu.cn

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202206071** can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202206071.

R. Zhang, H. L. Xin Department of Physics and Astronomy University of California Irvine, CA 92697, USA E-mail: huolin.xin@uci.edu X. Zheng School of Materials Science and Engineering Tianjin University Tianjin Haihe Education Park, Tianjin 300072, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article

studied, but their low abundance and high price hinder the larger scale application.[3,4] Thus, it is highly desirable to explore affordable and efficient Pt-free ORR catalysts.[5] Atomically dispersed 3d transition metal with nitrogen ligand anchored on carbon (M-NC), such as Fe-NC or Co-NC et al., are regarded as the most promising Pt-free catalysts because of their inspiring ORR activities, welldefined structure and low cost.[6,7] Recent studies demonstrated that the planar M-N4 moiety is the real active sites toward ORR, which could directly adsorb O2 molecular and efficiently break OO bond, therefore facilitating ORR kinetics.[8,9] However, despite great progress in boosting the activities of Fe-NC and Co-NC catalysts, the long-term durability of the catalysts is far from satisfactory, which inhabits their further application.[10–12]

The dissolution of metals and the corrosion of carbon support are responsible for the degradation of the catalytic activities for M-NC catalysts, which is mainly attributed to the oxidation attack of the by-product of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and hydroxyl radical (OH·) generated by Fenton reaction (Fe2<sup>+</sup> + H2O2→Fe3<sup>+</sup> + OH−+ OH·), especially for the advanced Fe-NC and Co-NC catalysts.[11,13,14] Thereby, developing M-NC catalysts that could avoid the generation of H2O2 and OH· is an important research direction.[15] For instance, Mn-NC and Ni-NC catalysts have been reported as durable ORR catalysts due to the high selectivity of 4e− reaction transfer and the weak Fenton reaction between H2O2 and Mn/Ni ions.[16] Compared with Mn-NC catalyst that is difficult to synthesize due to multivalence Mn ions (from 0 to +7),[17] the single-atom Ni-NC is easier to fabricate. However, on account of the relatively weak adsorption strength of the ORR intermediates on Ni-N4 sites, the Ni-NC catalyst displays unsatisfactory activities.[18,19] Hence, further optimizing the electronic structure of the active Ni site is highly desirable.

Altering ligand fields in single-atom metal center through anion (S, P et al.) modulation has been demonstrated as an efficient strategy to regulate the electronic structure of the active metal centers.[20,21] Conventionally, the introduced anions are located at the second-shell or higher shell of metal center, which could change the electronic densities of active M-N4 sites through the withdrawing/donating effects, thereby boosting their intrinsic activities.[22] But the indirect interaction between

SMQ

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

doped anion and metal has limited impact on modifying activities.<sup>[23]</sup> Recent study reveals that the partial substitution of first-shell N ligand in Cu-N<sub>4</sub> moiety by a low-electronegativity S (S: 2.5; N: 3.0) anion (denoted as Cu-S<sub>1</sub>N<sub>3</sub>) could obviously enhance the ORR activity of Cu-NC catalyst that possesses weak adsorption characteristic, which is ascribed to the direct and strong interaction between first-shell S ligand and Cu site, thereby lowering the valence of Cu site and then strengthen the adsorption of ORR intermediates on Cu-S<sub>1</sub>N<sub>3</sub> moiety. Based on first-principle calculations, Ni-N<sub>4</sub> moiety also displays a weak adsorption characteristic like Cu-N<sub>4</sub> moiety, but worse.<sup>[20]</sup> Therefore, it is rationally speculated that the introduction of an adjacent ligand of Ni with a much lower electronegativity than S, such as Si ion (Si: 1.8), may boost the ORR activities, as well as maintain a good durability.

Here, we successfully synthesize a novel single-atom Sidoped Ni-NC catalyst (Ni-SiNC) for ORR. Synchrotron-based X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations validate that the doped Si is positioned at the first shell and coordinates with Ni to construct Ni-Si<sub>1</sub>N<sub>3</sub> moiety, and the energy barrier of the ORR intermediates on Ni-Si<sub>1</sub>N<sub>3</sub> moiety (1.04 eV) is much smaller than that on Ni-N<sub>4</sub> moiety (1.34 eV), implying an obviously enhanced ORR activity. The as-prepared Ni-SiNC catalyst exhibits an excellent ORR activity, of which half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) is 0.866 V versus RHE and kinetic current density (Jk) at 0.90 V versus RHE is 1.857 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, exceeding commercial Pt/C ( $E_{1/2} = 0.845$  V versus RHE,  $J_k = 1.083$  mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Inspiringly, with only 10 mV negative shift in  $E_{1/2}$  after 35 000 cycles, the Ni-SiNC catalyst also displays outstanding long-term durability, greatly exceeding Fe-NC catalysts and approaching the previously reported record level for single-atom catalysts.<sup>[24,25]</sup> In addition, the Zn-air battery using Ni-SiNC as cathode was also tested, of which performance is superior to commercial Pt/C, validating the promising prospects in energy storage and conversion fields.

# 2. Results and Discussion

## 2.1. Synthesis and Morphology Characterizations of Ni-SiNC

Ni-SiNC was prepared through a simple three-step process (Figure 1a). First, Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Zn<sup>2+</sup> ions were mixed with 2-methylimidazole at room temperature to form Ni-doped zeolite imidazole framework (Ni-ZIF-8), and the synthesized polyhedral ZIF-8 and Ni-ZIF-8 were shown in Figure S1, Supporting Information. Subsequently, Ni-ZIF-8 and tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) were dispersed in a mixed solution of carbon tetrachloride and ethanol, and then stirred and dried to ensure that Si precursor was adsorbed on the surface of Ni-ZIF-8 (Si@Ni-ZIF-8). Finally, Si@Ni-ZIF-8 was pyrolyzed at 950 °C under Ar atmosphere to obtain Ni-SiNC. During the pyrolysis process, the metallic Zn inside the imidazole framework was evaporated,[14,32,33] and Si penetrated the ZIF-8 framework. At the same time, the single-atom Ni was fixed to the carbon skeleton by coordinating with N and Si atoms. For comparison, NC (N-modified carbon), SiNC (Si, N co-modified carbon), and Ni-NC (without Si) were also prepared by similar methods as control samples. Note that the optimized Ni-SiNC sample was

obtained by adding 15  $\mu$ L TEOS to 0.2 g Ni-ZIF-8, which is determined by the ORR performance (Figure S2, Supporting Information). Unless otherwise specified, this optimized Ni-SiNC sample was subsequently used for further structural characterization and electrochemical testing.

All samples were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Raman spectroscopy. In the XRD patterns (Figure S3, Supporting Information), the typically broad diffraction peaks of the Ni-SiNC sample after pyrolysis at ≈22.5° and 44.0° are corresponding to carbon with poor crystallinity. Note that there is no diffraction peak of metallic Ni, possibly demonstrating the existence of atomically dispersed Ni atoms. [34] The Raman spectra (Figure S4, Supporting Information) shows that the intensity ratio between the D band (defective carbon, ≈1337 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and the G band (graphite carbon, ≈1589 cm<sup>-1</sup>)<sup>[35]</sup> of Ni-SiNC and SiNC is greater than that of NC and Ni-NC samples, close to 1.05, implying that plenty of defects exist in the carbon substrate after introduce of Si. [36,37] Ni-SiNC show an adsorption hysteresis loop in N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms measured by Brunauer-Emmett-Teller, indicating that Ni-SiNC has higher surface area (1195.85 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and larger pores (0.59 nm) than Ni-NC (1071.82 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> and 0.51 nm) (Figure S5 and Table S1, Supporting Information). Due to a much larger atom radius of Si (123 pm) compared to C (77 pm) and N (92 pm), the introduction of Si atoms will inevitably induce a large lattice strain, giving rise to more defects that has been revealed by Raman results (Figure S4, Supporting Information), which may be the source of large holes.[38,39] Scanning electron microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM) were used to observed the morphology of Ni-SiNC. Figure 1b shows that Ni-SiNC maintains a regular polyhedron shape of Si@Ni-ZIF-8 with an average size of ≈220 nm (Figures S6 and S7, Supporting Information). The surface becomes rough during the pyrolysis process, which is conducive to form a large specific surface area. TEM dark field image (Figure 1c) further validates the morphology of porous polyhedral carbon framework. Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) measured by scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) (Figure 1d) shows that Ni, Si, and N have a uniform distribution on the C support. The atomically dispersed Ni atoms can be identified by the isolated bright spots in the aberration-corrected HADDF-STEM images (Figure 1e,f). Meanwhile, the measurement of the spatial distance between two Ni atoms exceeds 0.35 nm, further confirming the isolated existence of Ni atoms (Figure 1g). We also provide electron energy loss spectra (EELS) collected in a localized region of HAADF image, the EELS results confirm the presence of Si atoms near Ni atoms (Figure S8, Supporting Information).[40] According to the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) measurement, the mass percentage content of single-atom Ni and Si in Ni-SiNC is determined as 0.49 and 0.29 wt%. Furthermore, the SEM, EDS characterizations of NC, Ni-NC, and SiNC were also exhibited, respectively (Figures S9-S11, Supporting Information).

#### 2.2. Chemical State and Coordination Structure Analyses of Ni-SiNC

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out to detect C and N elements, which helped to study the chemical

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic diagram of the preparation strategy of the target electrocatalyst Ni-SiNC. b) SEM, c) TEM and d) EDS images of Ni-SiNC, C (red), N (pink), Si (green), and Ni (blue). HAADF-STEM image e) of the target electrocatalyst Ni-SiNC and high-magnification HAADF-STEM image f) of the determined region. g) Intensity comparison images along the *X*-*Y* line in (f).

states of Ni-SiNC. The C 1s spectrum of Ni-SiNC (**Figure 2**a) shows three distinct peaks at 290.06, 285.85, and 284.51 eV, respectively,[41] which are assigned to CC, CN, and CC bonds, respectively. In addition, the N 1s spectrum shows the presence of graphite N, pyrrolic N and pyridine N in Ni-SiNC, and importantly that there is a small NiN bond peak (Figure 2b), demonstrating that N is coordinating with Ni.[42] Si 2p spectrum of Ni-SiNC (Figure S12a, Supporting Information) can be deconvoluted into two peaks: SiC species (≈100.11 eV) and Si-Ni species (≈98.90 eV).[43] The existence of the peak of metal-Si bond indicates Si atoms tend to directly coordinate to the central Ni atoms. Regarding the Ni 2p XPS spectrum of Ni-SiNC (Figure S12b, Supporting Information), two peaks at ≈854.99 and ≈872.79 eV together with satellite peak are corresponding to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, respectively.[44] Notably, compared to those of Ni-NC without Si source, Ni 2p XPS peaks of Ni-SiNC shift toward a lower binding energy direction, suggesting a lower chemical valence of Ni element. To further evaluate the electronic structure and coordination structure of Ni center, hard X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (XAFS) including X-ray absorption energy near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra are performed. Moreover, the absorption edges of the Ni K-edge spectra reflect average oxidation state of Ni species, as shown in Figure 2c.[23] It can be observed that the absorption edge of Ni-SiNC is located between Ni foil and NiO, implying that its oxidation state is between 0 and +2 valence. In Figure S13, Supporting Information, the fitted oxidation state of Ni in Ni-SiNC from K-edge XANES spectra was close to 1.32 (Ni in Ni-NC is 1.45), agreeing well with XPS and XANES analysis. In comparison with Ni-NC and nickel phthalocyanine (NiPc), the oxidation state of Ni in Ni-SiNC is lower, which may be ascribed **www.advancedsciencenews.com**

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** XPS spectra of a) C 1s and b) N 1s of the Ni-SiNC. c) The experimental Ni K-edge XANES spectra of Ni-SiNC, Ni foil, Ni-NC, NiO, and NiPc. d) FT *k*<sup>3</sup> -weighted Ni K-edge EXAFS spectra of Ni foil, Ni-SiNC, Ni-NC, NiO, and NiPc. e)WT-EXAFS plots of Ni foil, NiO, NiPc, Ni-NC, and Ni-SiNC. f) FT-EXAFS fitting curve of Ni-SiNC at Ni *K*-edge. g) Schematic coordination environment model of Ni-Si1N3 moiety.

to the less electron transfer from Ni to the adjacent Si atom, as the electronegativity of Si (1.8) is much less than that of N (3.0). For the first derivative of XANES (Figure S14, Supporting Information), the peak at ≈8333 eV corresponds to the dipole forbidden but quadrupole allowed jump from 1s to 3d-4p hybrid orbitals, which reflects the symmetry information. The peak at ≈8347 eV corresponds to the square planar Ni-N4 configuration with D4h symmetry, which is caused by the 1s → 4pz shakedown transition. The relatively weak intensity of the two peaks of Ni-SiNC compared to Ni-NC indicates that the D4h symmetry is broken and the spatial structure is distorted, which is most likely caused by the introduction of first-shell Si ligand.[45–47]

To clarify the local coordination structure of Ni centers, the Fourier transform of the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra was carried out (Figure 2d). The main peak located at 1.49 Å in Ni-SiNC is corresponding to NiN coordination, which is slightly larger than NiN bonds in Ni-NC (1.45 Å).[41] Moreover, the intensity of NiN bond in Ni-SiNC is smaller than that in Ni-NC, which implies the decrease of N coordination number, possibly ascribed to the partial substitution of N ligands by Si. Interestingly, a shoulder peak located at 1.98 Å in Ni-SiNC is observed, which is attributed to NiSi scattering, further demonstrating the formation of Ni-Si bond.[48] It also can be seen that the peak at ≈2.20 Å in Ni foil corresponding to NiNi bond is not found in Ni-SiNC, validating the atomically dispersed Ni atoms, which agrees well with the HAADF-STEM result. Due to the ultra-high *R*-space and *K*-space resolution, further wavelet transformed (WT) analysis of Ni K-edge EXAFS oscillation was utilized to obtain more information about the atomic configuration.[49] Figure 2e shows the WT contour map of three *k*<sup>2</sup> -weighted *χ*(*k*) signals based on Morlet wavelets. Compared with the bonding of Ni foil, NiO and NiPc, the WT of Ni-SiNC and Ni-NC shows a maximum strength at about 5.6 and 5.8 Å−<sup>1</sup> , which corresponds to the NiN bonding. The maximum strength corresponding to the NiNi bond (8.2 Å−<sup>1</sup> ) of metal Ni foil was not observed, further confirming Ni-SiNC and Ni-NC single-atom characteristics.[46]

In order to quantificationally analyze the details of coordination structure in Ni-SiNC, the least-squares EXAFS fitting was operated. The fitted curve and parameters are illustrated

**www.small-journal.com** The ORR was tested by a three-electrode system in N2 and O2-saturated alkaline condition (0.1 m KOH). The corresponding cyclic voltammetry (CV) activation curves of Ni-SiNC and Pt/C are shown in Figure S16, Supporting Information. As shown in **Figure 3**a is the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of the catalysts, Ni-SiNC has superior ORR performance over other control samples, even Fe-NC (Figure S17 and Table S3, Supporting Information), exhibiting the most positive half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.866 V versus RHE, which is even 21 mV higher than commercial Pt/C (0.845 V vs RHE). Furthermore, among the individual control samples, Ni-SiNC as the most positive onset potential (*E*onset = 0.951 V vs RHE) (Table S4, Supporting Information). Additionally, the lower Tafel slope value, the faster reaction kinetics.[14,51] In Figure 3b, the Tafel value of the Ni-SiNC catalyst is 75 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , which ) and much smaller

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

in Figure 2f and Table S2, Supporting Information. It is clear that the fitted curve matches the experimental data very well. The fitted results indicate that the central Ni atom in Ni-SiNC is directly bonding with one Si atom and three N atoms at the first shell, with a moiety of Ni-Si1N3, and the Si atom replaces one N atom and one C atom, as displayed in the inset of Figure 2f. Compared with the average NiN bond length (1.74 Å) in Ni-NC (Figure S15, Supporting Information), whether NiN bond length (1.77 Å) or Ni-Si bond length (2.18 Å) in Ni-SiNC are larger (Figure 2g), implying an expansion of the first shell around central Ni atom. The expansion in the first shell of Ni-SiNC indicates that the introduced first-shell Si ligand can directly regulate the geometric structure of central Ni atom. In consideration of the relatively weak adsorption of Ni sites in Ni-N4 moiety,[20] the increment of the electron density of Ni sites in Ni-Si1N3 moiety may strengthen the bonding between the active metal sites and the ORR intermediates, thereby facilitating ORR kinetics.[24,50]

# **2.3. Electrocatalytic ORR Performance of the Ni-SiNC**

is almost equivalent to Pt/C (72 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup>

**Figure 3.** a) Polarization curves for NC, Ni-NC, SiNC, Ni-SiNC, and Pt/C. b) Tafel slopes of NC, Ni-NC, SiNC, Ni-SiNC, and Pt/C. c) The contrast of *Jk* (0.90 V versus RHE) and *E*1/2 between NC, Ni-NC, SiNC, Ni-SiNC, and Pt/C. d) Comparison of Eonset and *E*1/2 values for Ni-SiNC and other recently reported high level single-atom catalysts. the LSV polarization curves of Ni-SiNC at e) different rotation speeds and f) the Koutecky–Levich plots at different potentials from the e picture of Ni-SiNC. g) The long-term durability tests of Ni-SiNC after 35 000 CV cycles. h) Methanol tolerance tests of Ni-SiNC and Pt/C.

\_ smai

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

than Ni-NC (133 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), SiNC (97 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and NC (115 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating the lower energy barriers and faster kinetics of Ni-SiNC. Moreover, Figure 3c shows the comparison of the kinetic current density ( $J_k$ ) at 0.90 V versus RHE derived from the LSV curves of all samples. Among them, Ni-SiNC exhibits the highest  $I_k$  value (1.857 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), which is 1.71, 6.87, 8.52, and 71.42 times higher than those of commercial Pt/C ( $J_k = 1.083 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), Ni-NC (0.270 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), SiNC (0.218 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and NC (0.026 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), respectively. We also conduct electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The smallest semicircle diameter of Ni-SiNC represents the fastest charge transfer rate (Figure S18, Supporting Information), indicating that the introduction of Si greatly improves the charge transfer ability between reactants and active sites. This also confirms that the localized electron redistribution induced by Si optimizes the catalytic performance by accelerating electron transfer.<sup>[52]</sup> Depending on the linear relationship between the electrochemical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) and the electrochemically active area (ECSA), the ECSA of the catalysts is described by the  $C_{\rm dl}$  value (Figure S19a, Supporting Information). Ni-SiNC has a higher  $C_{\rm dl}$  value (14.3 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) than Ni-NC (8.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (11.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). Normalizes the LSV curves by ECSA, Ni-SiNC still has the highest half-wave potential (Figure S19b, Supporting Information). This tules out the compact of catalytic surface area on the activity of Ni-SiNC, further confirming that the ORR excellent performance of Ni-SiNC originates from Si.[53] Furthermore, the Ni-SiNC we synthesized shows better activity than other Ni-based materials and is comparable to other single atomic catalysts reported recently (Figure 3d).[11,54-61]

To explore the catalytic selectivity of Ni-SiNC, the LSV curves of Ni-SiNC were recorded at different speeds (800-2400 rpm, Figure 3e). Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots of Ni-SiNC extracted from the LSV curves are shown in Figure 3f. For Ni-SiNC, the calculated electron transfer number (n) is 3.82, demonstrating a direct 4e- transfer ORR pathway. Moreover, Ni-SiNC also exhibits ultra-high long-term durability that is superior to Ni-NC and SiNC (Figure S20, Supporting Information). After consecutive 35 000 cycles from 0.2 to 1.1 V versus RHE potential range, the negative shift on  $E_{1/2}$  is only 10 mV (Figure 3g). In contrast, Ni-NC and SiNC decayed  $E_{1/2}$  by 17 and 27 mV after only 10 000 cycles, this is due to the hydrogen peroxide yield (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>%) of Ni-NC and Si-NC is significantly higher than that of Ni-SiNC, and H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> species will cause severe corrosion of carbon support, affecting the stability of the Ni-NC and Si-NC catalysts (Figure S21, Supporting Information).<sup>[11]</sup> To our best knowledge, this almost represents the most advanced level of single-atom catalysts in terms of stability at present (Table S5, Supporting Information). The structural stability of Ni-SiNC was further confirmed by AC-HAADF STEM images and XPS analysis after stability testing. The HAADF STEM image (Figure S22, Supporting Information) shows that isolated Ni still exist on the substrate, which are identified by bright spots marked with yellow squares. In addition, Ni and Si still exist according to XPS. It is well known that Fe-NC and Co-NC possess high ORR activity, but suffering from the poor long-term durability, which is mainly attributable to the carbon corrosion induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and hydroxyl radical (OH1) generated by Fenton reaction (Fe<sup>2+</sup> + H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> $\rightarrow$ Fe<sup>3+</sup> + OH<sup>-</sup>+ OH·). [11]

We attribute the high stability of Ni-SiNC to the Fenton-free nature and provide the  $\rm H_2O_2$  yields of Fe-NC, Co-NC, and Ni-SiNC as evidence to evaluate the actual Fenton-induced reaction influences. The  $\rm H_2O_2$  yield of Ni-SiNC remains below 10%, while Fe-NC and Co-NC are close to 20% (Figure S23, Supporting Information), further revealing that Ni-SiNC could effectively avoid Fenton reaction and exhibit promising application prospects in fuel cell and metal-air batteries. As plotted in Figure 3h, the current density of Ni-SiNC does not decay after injecting 1  $\rm M$  methanol into the electrolyte, while the current density of Pt/C decreased significantly, indicating that Ni-SiNC has excellent tolerance ability to methanol.

#### 2.4. Application of Zn-Air Battery

The self-made Zn-air battery (ZAB) was assembled by using Ni-SiNC as the air cathode electrocatalyst as well as a mixed solution of 6.0 M KOH and 0.2 M ZnCl<sub>2</sub> as electrolyte, of which schematic diagram is shown in Figure 4a. Figure 4b shows the discharge polarization curves and power density curves of the assembled ZAB. It can be observed that Ni-SiNC-based ZAB shows a larger discharging voltage (1.59 V) plateau and a higher peak power density (161 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) than commercial Pt/C (1.45 V, ≈142 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). Moreover, the as-prepared ZAB exhibits an ultra-high specific discharge capacity (normalized by weight of zinc consumption) of 748 mAh g<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup>, corresponding to a high energy density of 980 Wh kg<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup>(Figure 4c), exceeding Pt/C counterpart (667 mAh g<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup>; 860 Wh kg<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup>) and other single-atom catalysts reported recently (Table S6, Supporting Information). Notably, the open circuit voltage of Ni-SiNC-based battery has almost no decay after at least 8 h, implying the excellent durability (inset in Figure 4c). Furthermore, a LED screen could be evenly powered by two ZABs connected in series using an Ni-SiNC air electrode (Figure 4d), further suggesting the Ni-SiNC catalyst's potential for significant performance in practical devices.

#### 2.5. ORR Catalytic Mechanism of Ni-SiNC

To deeply understand the enhanced activity mechanism of Ni-SiNC on the atomic scale, DFT calculations were carried out to analyze the adsorption free energies of different ORR intermediates, the electronic structure and the orbital bonding. Based on the fitting results of the EXAFS, we choose the Ni-Si<sub>1</sub>N<sub>3</sub> moiety embedded in carbon matrix as the model structure and singleatom Ni center as active site(Figure S24, Supporting Information). In the Gibbs free energies profiles (Figure 5a), the binding energies of all ORR intermediates (i. e., \*OOH, \*O, and \*OH) on Ni-Si<sub>1</sub>N<sub>3</sub> moiety are stronger than that on pristine Ni-N<sub>4</sub> moiety, implying the introduction of first-shell Si anion could strengthen the bonding between the oxygen-contained intermediates and single-atom Ni sites. Moreover, it also can be clearly seen that the rate determining step is the formation of \*OOH for both Ni-SiNC and Ni-NC, indicating their weak adsorption characteristics, which coincides with previous report. [20] And the overpotential of Ni-SiNC (1.04 V) calculated at the electrode potential U = 1.23 V is lower than that of Ni-NC (1.34 V), demonstrating

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**Figure 4.** a) Schematic illustration of the interior of Zn-air battery. b) Power density curves and discharge polarization curves of Zn-air batteries assembled with Ni-SiNC and Pt/C catalysts. c) Specific capacity of Ni-SiNC and Pt/C at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Inset: the open circuit voltage plots of Zn-air batteries. d) Photograph of LED screen powered by two Ni-SiNC-based Zn-air batteries connected in series.

a faster ORR kinetics and better intrinsic activity for Ni-SiNC, which agrees well with the experimental results.

To further study the relationship between the electronic configuration and the catalytic activity, the difference charge density of Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC was calculated. As shown in Figure 5b, it is apparent that the introduction of Si leads to the electron accumulation around Ni, which is due to the smaller electronegativity of Si (1.8) than N (3.0). Besides, the Bader charge analysis (Figure 5c) shows that the valence state of Ni in Ni-SiNC is lower than Ni-NC, agreeing well with XPS and XANES analysis, which will strengthen the bonding between the oxygenevolved intermediates and the single-atom Ni centers.[23] As is well known, d-band centers theory proposed by Norskov [62] has been widely accepted as a powerful descriptor to assess the intrinsic activity of ORR catalysts. In comparison to the Ni-NC (−1.75 eV), the d-band center of Ni in Ni-SiNC (−1.32 eV) moves toward the Fermi energy level, as shown in Figure 5d. This indicates that the bonding interaction between active site and ORR intermediates becomes stronger in Ni-SiNC, which is consistent with the Bader charge analysis. Furthermore, the non-zero density of states at the Fermi level shows the conductive properties of Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC. Moreover, we show in Figure S25, Supporting Information, the projected density of states of Ni and Si, where the Ni dxy orbital is electronically coupled to the Si px, py orbital, and the two orbitals overlap to form a bond.

Figure 5e,f shows the projected density of states (PDOS) for Ni d orbitals and O p orbitals of Ni after O adsorption on the Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC, respectively. It is seen that the *σ* bonds are contributed by the Ni dz2 and O pz, and *σ*\* anti-bonds in Ni-SiNC are less filled with electrons than in Ni-NC, implying a stronger bonding between the adsorbed O and Ni sites. That is, when more anti-bonding states are above the Fermi level, it appears as a strong coupling between the d electrons of the metal and the p electrons of adsorbate, as illustrated in Figure 5g.[63] To gain a deep insight into the bond strength (or bond order) between active center and adsorbent, we further calculate the crystal orbital overlapping population (COOP) between the active Ni site and the adsorbed O intermediate by using the Lobster software[64] for both Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC, as shown in Figure 5h,i, where the negative and positive values of COOP correspond to the antibonding and bonding states, respectively. Below the Fermi energy level, less antibonding states for Ni-SiNC are occupied by electrons compared to Ni-NC, which suggests that bond strength is stronger in Ni-SiNC. Additionally, the integration of the COOP below the Fermi energy level (ICOHP) provides quantitative information to evaluate the TM-O bond order. More negative ICOHP values indicate higher bond orders, that is, stronger Ni-O bond interactions. The ICOHP value of Ni-SiNC (−2.08 eV) is more negative compared to Ni-NC (−1.94 eV), indicating a stronger binding of Ni and O in Ni-SiNC, which is consistent with the calculated Gibbs free energy.

# **3. Conclusions**

In summary, we validated that the introduction of Si anion at the first shell of atomically dispersed Ni centers in ZIF-8-derived Ni-NC could effectively optimize its electronic structure, thereby boosting the ORR performance. Due of the reasonable **www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** a) Free-energy diagram for ORR process over the Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC at the *U* = 0 V and *U* = 1.23 V (inset: the corresponding schematic models. Gray: Ni, blue: N, orange: Si, brown: C). b) The difference charge density of Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC (The yellow area indicates charge accumulation, and the blue area indicates charge depletion). c) Relationship between Δ*G*O\* and Bader charge of active sites Ni in Ni-SiNC and Ni-NC. d) Total density of states and Ni 3d project density of states of Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC. Projected density of states of Ni sites after O adsorption for e) Ni-NC and f) Ni-SiNC. g) The schematic illustration of the bond formation between the adsorbate (Ads) and the reaction surface of Ni-NC and Ni-SiNC. Crystal orbitals overlap population (COOP) plots of h) Ni-NC and i) Ni-SiNC.

construction of active centers, as well as Fenton-reaction-free characteristic, the as-synthesized Ni-SiNC catalyst exhibited excellent ORR activity and outstanding long-term stability. Experimental analyses and theoretical calculations demonstrate that the optimized ORR performance is attributable to the increased charge density of single-atom Ni center that lowered the energy barriers of ORR intermediates on Ni-Si1N3 sites. This atomical-scale regulation strategy concerning the local coordination structure may promote the studies of advanced single-atom catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction and beyond.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: 2-Methylimidazole (Aladdin), tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS, Aladdin), Nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, Aladdin), commercial Pt/C (20 wt% metal, Aladdin), KOH (Aladdin), carbon tetrachloride (Innochem), methanol (Innochem), Nafion D-521 dispersion (Aladdin), zinc nitrate hexahydrate (Zn(NO3)2·6H2O, Aladdin), and *N*, *N*-dimethyl formamide (DMF, Innochem). The deionized water (DIW) was used in all experiments.

*Instrumentation*: The X-ray diffractometer (XRD, Bruker AXS) was used to identify the sample's crystal structure. The morphology and element composition of the sample were observed through transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEM-2100HR) and scanning electron microscope (SEM, FEI Quanta-450 FEG). JEOLJEM ARM200F with additional energy dispersion spectroscopy (EDS) under 300 kV acceleration voltage was used to obtain AC-HAADF STEM images. By using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, ESCALAB 250Xi), the samples' surface chemical condition was investigated. The LabRAM HR Evolution was used to gather the Raman spectra with the excitation wavelength set to 532 nm. The X-Ray absorption spectra (XAS) of Ni K-edge were gathered at the National Synchrotron Light Source II's Quick X-ray Absorption and Scattering beamline (QAS 7-BM) in Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL).

Synthesis of Ni-ZIF-8 and ZIF-8: 552.5 mg Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O and 1069 mg Zn(NO<sub>3</sub>) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O were dissolved in 30 mL mixed solution (DMF: methanol = 4:1) and stirred for 10 min. Then, 20 mL of the combined solution (DMF: methanol = 4:1) containing 1161 mg of 2-methylimidazole was dissolved, and the mixture was then immediately added to the above solution. The mixed solution was sealed to react at 25 °C for 12 h, washed with methanol, and centrifuged. Finally, dry it under an 80 °C vacuum for 6 h. Pure ZIF-8 was synthesized by the same method and does not contain Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>) $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O.

Preparation of Ni-NC and NC: The obtained Ni-ZIF-8 powder was adequately crushed and put in a quartz tube, then heated in Ar gas at 450 °C for 2 h, followed by pyrolysis in Ar gas at 950 °C for 4 h to obtain Ni-NC. Pure NC was synthesized in the same way, using ZIF-8 instead of Ni-ZIF-8.

Preparation of Ni-SiNC and SiNC: Disperse obtained Ni-ZIF-8 powder (0.2 g) in the solution (CCl $_4$ : ethanol = 4:1) containing TEOS (5, 10, 15, and 20  $\mu$ L). After sonicating for 10 min and magnetic stirring for 6 h, it was evaporated to dryness under vacuum at 80 °C. Subsequently, the dried powder was heated and pyrolyzed as mentioned in 2.4. Pure SiNC was synthesized in the same way, using ZIF-8 instead of Ni-ZIF-8.

Electrochemical Measurements for ORR: All the electrochemical measurements related to the oxygen reduction reaction were measured on the RRDE-3A (Japan ALS Co., Ltd) utilizing a three-electrode setup in 0.1 m KOH solution. The reference electrode, counter electrode and working electrode are Ag/AgCl, graphite carbon rod and rotating ring disk electrode, respectively. Reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) was used to calibrate the reference electrode,  $E_{RHE} = E_{Ag/AgCl} + 0.059 \times pH + 0.1971$ . 3 mg of catalyst was dispersed into the mixture solution (0.70 mL isopropanol, 0.30 mL DIW, 0.02 mL 5% Nafion), sonicate for 30 min to form an ink for use. The platinum carbon electrode had a catalyst loading of 0.306 mg cm $^{-2}$ . Before the ORR test, the system was saturated with  $N_2/O_2$  in the electrolyte. The catalyst was put through CV testing at 50 mV s $^{-1}$  and LSV tests at various speeds between 800 and 2400 rpm at 5 mV s $^{-1}$ .

The K–L Equations (1) and (2) was used to compute the kinetic current  $(J_k)$ . The electron transfer number (n) and yielding of  $H_2O_2$  intermediate  $(H_2O_2\%)$  were determined for RRDE experiment using the following Equations (3) and (4).

$$J_{k} = (J \times J_{d}) / (J_{d} - J) \tag{1}$$

$$B = 0.62n(D_0)^{2/3}v^{-1/6} \tag{2}$$

$$H_2O_2\% = (200 \times I_r / N) / (I_d + I_r / N)$$
 (3)

$$n = (4 \times I_{d}) / (I_{d} + I_{r} / N)$$
(4)

In the above equations,  $J_d$  and  $J_k$  represent the limiting current density and kinetic current density, respectively, n is the number of transferred electrons, and F is the Faraday constant (96 485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>).  $C_o = 1.2 \times 10^{-6}$  mol cm<sup>-3</sup>, is the volume concentration of  $O_2$  in the 0.1 M KOH electrolyte.  $D_0 = 1.9 \times 10^{-5}$  cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, is the diffusion coefficient of  $O_2$  in the 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. v = 0.01 cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, is the electrolyte kinematic viscosity.  $I_d$  is the disk current,  $I_r$  is the ring current, and N = 0.37, is the current collection efficiency of the Pt ring.

Zinc-air Battery Measurements: 10 mg Ni-SiNC or Pt/C mixed 3 mg carbon black was added to a 5 mL glass bottle containing 700  $\mu$ L isopropanol, 300  $\mu$ L deionized water, and 30  $\mu$ L Nafion (5 wt%). Sonicated for 30 min to produce a uniform catalyst ink. Then, 150  $\mu$ L of electrocatalyst ink was dropped onto a hydrophobic carbon cloth ( $\approx$ 1 cm²) as an air-cathode. In the meanwhile, 6 M KOH/0.2 M ZnCl<sub>2</sub> was utilized as the electrolyte and Zn-foil was used as the anode. The following formulae, respectively, were used to compute the specific capacity and energy density:

Specific capacity = 
$$\frac{\text{Current} \times \text{time(h)}}{\text{Weight of consumed zinc(g)}}$$
 (5)

Energy density = 
$$\frac{\text{Current} \times \text{time}(h) \times \text{discharge voltage}(V)}{\text{Weight of consumed zinc}(g)}$$
(6)

DFT Calculations: Density functional theory (DFT) computations utilizing the Vienna ab-initio simulation package (VASP) were conducted. [26] This work employed the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) functional and the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) to characterize the electronic exchange and correlation effects. [27,28] The plane wave basis's cut-off energy was set at 450 eV. The vacuum layer thickness was chosen at 15 to avoid surface contact between adjacent surfaces. Regarding the Monkhorst Pack Scheme, the Brillioun zone's K points meshing were set up as a  $4\times4\times1$  grid with the gamma point in its center. Van der Waals forces and solvation effects were not taken into account in the computations. The Crystal Orbital Overlapping Population (COOP)[29] approach built in LOBSTER (local orbital basis suite toward electronic-structure reconstruction)[30,31] was used to examine the bonding characteristics of electrocatalysts and oxygencontaining intermediates.

Under alkaline conditions, the ORR process includes the following four steps:

$$O_2 +^* + H_2O + e^- \rightarrow *OOH + OH^-$$
 (7)

\* 
$$OOH + e^- \rightarrow *O + OH^-$$
 (8)

$$*O + H_2O + e^- \rightarrow *OH + OH^- \tag{9}$$

$$*OH + e^- \rightarrow OH^- + * \tag{10}$$

The standard Gibbs free energy change was shown in the following equation:

$$\Delta G = \Delta E + \Delta Z PE - T \Delta S + \Delta G_{pH} + \Delta G_{U}$$
(11)

where  $\Delta E$ ,  $\Delta Z$ PE, and  $\Delta S$  were the reaction energy, the change in zeropoint energy, and the change in entropy, respectively.  $\Delta G_{PH}$  is the electrolyte type's contribution to free energy, as determined by the equation  $\Delta G_{PH} = k_B T \times pH \times ln10$ . The Gibbs free energy is affected by electric potential according to the formula  $\Delta G_U = -neU$ , where U is the electrode potential and n is the number of electrons transferred.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### Acknowledgements

The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support from Nature Science Foundation of Hebei Province (E2022202035, B2021202019) and National Natural Science Foundation of China (51402085) for this paper. RZ and HLX are supported by HLX's startup funding provided by UC Irvine. This research used the 7-BM beamline of the National Synchrotron Light Source II, a U.S. DOE Office of Science User Facility operated for the DOE Office of Science by Brookhaven National Laboratory under Contract No. DE-SC0012704. The authors thank W.H.Y. for assistance with the illustration in Figure 1a and TOC.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

# **Keywords**

first shells, Ni-NC, oxygen reduction reactions, Si doping, single-atom catalysts

> Received: October 4, 2022 Revised: November 24, 2022 Published online: December 11, 2022

- [1] L. Tao, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, N. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Wu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1901227.
- [2] C. Chen, D. Yan, Y. Wang, Y. Zhou, Y. Zou, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1805029.
- [3] K. Kodama, T. Nagai, A. Kuwaki, R. Jinnouchi, Y. Morimoto, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2021**, *16*, 140.
- [4] W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. Liang, R. Zou, S. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2650.
- [5] F. Illas, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 10404.
- [6] P. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, G. Zhou, S. Wei, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 10800.
- [7] L. Han, H. Cheng, W. Liu, H. Li, P. Ou, R. Lin, H.-T. Wang, C.-W. Pao, A. R. Head, C.-H. Wang, X. Tong, C.-J. Sun, W.-F. Pong, J. Luo, J.-C. Zheng, H. L. Xin, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 681.
- [8] E. Luo, H. Zhang, X. Wang, L. Gao, L. Gong, T. Zhao, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 12469.
- [9] H. Xu, D. Cheng, D. Cao, X. C. Zeng, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 339.
- [10] G. Chen, P. Liu, Z. Liao, F. Sun, Y. He, H. Zhong, T. Zhang, E. Zschech, M. Chen, G. Wu, J. Zhang, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1907399.
- [11] X. X. Wang, D. A. Cullen, Y.-T. Pan, S. Hwang, M. Wang, Z. Feng, J. Wang, M. H. Engelhard, H. Zhang, Y. He, Y. Shao, D. Su, K. L. More, J. S. Spendelow, G. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706758.
- [12] C. H. Choi, H.-K. Lim, M. W. Chung, G. Chon, N. R. Sahraie, A. Altin, M.-T. Sougrati, L. Stievano, H. S. Oh, E. S. Park, F. Luo, P. Strasser, G. Drazic, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, H. Kim, F. Jaouen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 3176.
- [13] T. Sugawara, N. Kawashima, T. N. Murakami, *J. Power Sources* **2011**, *196*, 2615.
- [14] M. Xiao, J. Zhu, G. Li, N. Li, S. Li, Z. P. Cano, L. Ma, P. Cui, P. Xu, G. Jiang, H. Jin, S. Wang, T. Wu, J. Lu, A. Yu, D. Su, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 9640.
- [15] J. Qin, H. Liu, P. Zou, R. Zhang, C. Wang, H. L. Xin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2197.
- [16] Y. Zhu, J. Sokolowski, X. Song, Y. He, Y. Mei, G. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *10*, 1702844.
- [17] J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935.
- [18] Z. Cai, P. Du, W. Liang, H. Zhang, P. Wu, C. Cai, Z. Yan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 15012.
- [19] C. Li, D.-H. Zhao, H.-L. Long, M. Li, *Rare Met.* **2021**, *40*, 2657.
- [20] H. Shang, X. Zhou, J. Dong, A. Li, X. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Lin, J. Pei, Z. Li, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, Z. Yang, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, T. Sun, X. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, J. Li, W. Chen, D. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *1*, 3049.

- [21] Y. Li, B. Chen, X. Duan, S. Chen, D. Liu, K. Zang, R. Si, F. Lou, X. Wang, M. Rønning, L. Song, J. Luo, D. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *249*, 306.
- [22] Y. Chen, S. Ji, S. Zhao, W. Chen, J. Dong, W.-C. Cheong, R. Shen, X. Wen, L. Zheng, A. I. Rykov, S. Cai, H. Tang, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 5422.
- [23] J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, C. Chen, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C.-J. Chen, R.-S. Liu, C. Wang, K. Yan, Y. Li, G. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 20118.
- [24] Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254.
- [25] Q. Li, W. Chen, H. Xiao, Y. Gong, Z. Li, L. Zheng, X. Zheng, W. Yan, W.-C. Cheong, R. Shen, N. Fu, L. Gu, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, D. Wang, Q. Peng, J. Li, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800588.
- [26] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169.
- [27] G. Kresse, J. Hafner, *Phys. Rev. B* **1993**, *48*, 13115.
- [28] G. Kresse, J. Hafner, *Phys. Rev. B* **1994**, *49*, 14251.
- [29] V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Phys. Chem. A* **2011**, *115*, 5461.
- [30] S. Maintz, V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2016**, *37*, 1030.
- [31] S. Maintz, V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2013**, *34*, 2557.
- [32] J. Wan, Z. Zhao, H. Shang, B. Peng, W. Chen, J. Pei, L. Zheng, J. Dong, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, Z. Zhuang, J. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 8431.
- [33] H. Yang, R. Shi, L. Shang, T. Zhang, *Small Struct.* **2021**, *2*, 2100007.
- [34] M. Xiao, L. Gao, Y. Wang, X. Wang, J. Zhu, Z. Jin, C. Liu, H. Chen, G. Li, J. Ge, Q. He, Z. Wu, Z. Chen, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *14*, 19800.
- [35] L. Yan, L. Xie, X. L. Wu, M. Qian, J. Chen, Y. Zhong, Y. Hu, *Carbon Energy* **2021**, *3*, 856.
- [36] Z. Li, Y. Chen, S. Ji, Y. Tang, W. Chen, A. Li, J. Zhao, Y. Xiong, Y. Wu, Y. Gong, T. Yao, W. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Dong, Y. Wang, Z. Zhuang, W. Xing, C.-T. He, C. Peng, W.-C. Cheong, Q. Li, M. Zhang, Z. Chen, N. Fu, X. Gao, W. Zhu, J. Wan, J. Zhang, L. Gu, S. Wei, et al., *Nat. Chem.* **2020**, *12*, 764.
- [37] R. Jiang, L. Li, T. Sheng, G. Hu, Y. Chen, L. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11594.
- [38] K. Yuan, D. Lutzenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 2404.
- [39] X. Xie, L. Peng, H. Yang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101038.
- [40] Z. L. Wang, J. Choi, M. Xu, X. Hao, H. Zhang, Z. Jiang, M. Zuo, J. Kim, W. Zhou, X. Meng, Q. Yu, Z. Sun, S. Wei, J. Ye, G. G. Wallace, D. L. Officer, Y. Yamauchi, *ChemSusChem* **2020**, *13*, 929.
- [41] Y. Lu, H. Wang, P. Yu, Y. Yuan, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, Y. Sheng, S. Wu, W. Tu, G. Liu, M. Kraft, R. Xu, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *77*, 105158.
- [42] P. Chen, N. Zhang, S. Wang, T. Zhou, Y. Tong, C. Ao, W. Yan, L. Zhang, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2019**, *116*, 6635.
- [43] Z. Liu, X. Fu, M. Li, F. Wang, Q. Wang, G. Kang, F. Peng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 3289.
- [44] Y. Xu, Z. Yao, Z. Mao, M. Shi, X. Zhang, F. Cheng, H. B. Yang, H. b. Tao, B. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *277*, 119057.
- [45] B. Mei, C. Liu, F. Sun, S. Lu, X. Du, X. Li, F. Song, W. Xu, Z. Jiang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 8676.
- [46] H. Fei, J. Dong, Y. Feng, C. S. Allen, C. Wan, B. Volosskiy, M. Li, Z. Zhao, Y. Wang, H. Sun, P. An, W. Chen, Z. Guo, C. Lee, D. Chen, I. Shakir, M. Liu, T. Hu, Y. Li, A. I. Kirkland, X. Duan, Y. Huang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 63.
- [47] R. Li, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 6888.
- [48] S. Entani, S.-i. Sato, M. Honda, C. Suzuki, T. Taguchi, S. Yamamoto, T. Ohshima, *Radiat. Phys. Chem.* **2022**, *199*, 110369.

16136829, 2023, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202206071 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

- [49] H. Funke, M. Chukalina, A. Rossberg, *Phys. Scr.* **2005**, *2005*, 232.
- [50] L. Guo, S. Hwang, B. Li, F. Yang, M. Wang, M. Chen, X. Yang, S. G. Karakalos, D. A. Cullen, Z. Feng, G. Wang, G. Wu, H. Xu, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 6886.
- [51] Z. Chen, W. Gong, Z. Liu, S. Cong, Z. Zheng, Z. Wang, W. Zhang, J. Ma, H. Yu, G. Li, W. Lu, W. Ren, Z. Zhao, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *60*, 394.
- [52] J. Yang, W. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Small Struct.* **2020**, *2*, 2000051.
- [53] Y. Jia, X. Xiong, D. Wang, X. Duan, K. Sun, Y. Li, L. Zheng, W. Lin, M. Dong, G. Zhang, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Nanomicro Lett.* **2020**, *12*, 116.
- [54] S. Liu, Z. Li, C. Wang, W. Tao, M. Huang, M. Zuo, Y. Yang, K. Yang, L. Zhang, S. Chen, P. Xu, Q. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 938.
- [55] M. Li, Q. Lv, W. Si, Z. Hou, C. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202208238.
- [56] Y. Gu, B. J. Xi, H. Zhang, Y. C. Ma, S. L. Xiong, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202202200.

- [57] Q. Xu, H. Zhang, Y. Guo, J. Qian, S. Yang, D. Luo, P. Gao, D. Wu, X. Li, Z. Jiang, Y. Sun, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1905363.
- [58] H. Hu, J. Wang, B. Cui, X. Zheng, J. Lin, Y. Deng, X. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202114441.
- [59] G. Zuo, Y. Zheng, J. Wang, L. Wang, F. Wang, H. Huang, *J. Solid State Chem.* **2019**, *276*, 128.
- [60] H. Hu, J. H. Liang, Z. Y. Zu, J. L. Mi, B. B. Xiao, P. Zhang, *ChemistrySelect* **2021**, *6*, 6949.
- [61] J.-D. Yi, R. Xu, G.-L. Chai, T. Zhang, K. Zang, B. Nan, H. Lin, Y.-L. Liang, J. Lv, J. Luo, R. Si, Y.-B. Huang, R. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 1252.
- [62] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Surf. Sci.* **1995**, *343*, 211.
- [63] Y. Li, Y. Chen, Z. Guo, C. Tang, B. Sa, N. Miao, J. Zhou, Z. Sun, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132171.
- [64] S. Maintz, V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougreeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2016**, *37*, 1030.