---
source: Wang 等 - 2022 - All‐Solid‐State Synthesis of High‐Performance Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction Derived.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 36.093s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:24:22.463356Z
---

# **All-Solid-State Synthesis of High-Performance Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction Derived From** *g***-C3N4 and Cobalt Phthalocyanine**

*Yaping Wang, Meiyang Liu, Yi Zhang, Qingfeng Yi,\* and Ruowei Yi\**

**Herein, a combined method for planetary ball milling and pyrolysis of g-C3N4/ cobalt phthalocyanine mixture to synthesize Co nanoparticles loaded on CN nanosheets (***g***-C3N4@CoPc-***x* **with different mass ratios** *x* **of g-C3N4:CoPc) is proposed. The synthesized catalysts exhibit a unique 3D open sheet-like structure, and the average size of Co particles is 4.45 nm while encouragingly, a small amount of quasi single-atom cobalt (mean particle size 0.5 nm) is also found in the samples. In addition, the mass ratio of g-C3N4 to CoPc presents a significant effect on ORR activity of the samples. Among the samples, g-C3N4@CoPc-3 shows excellent ORR performance with the onset potential of 0.94 V in neutral condition and the half-wave potential of 1.00 V in alkaline condition, both better than Pt/C. Its onset potentials in acidic (0.83 V) and alkaline (1.07 V) conditions are also comparable to Pt/C. In a full pH range (acidic, alkaline, and neutral) electrolyte, the prepared samples catalyze ORR via a direct four-electron reaction pathway, and the C3N4@CoPc-3 reveals high catalytic stability and high anti-alcohol tolerance. Results provide wide feasibility for the synthesis and application of g-C3N4@CoPc-3 in fuel cells.**

**1. Introduction**

During the past two decades, electrochemical energies as green energy conversion devices have become a hotspot both commercially and academically, mainly due to their indispensable role in reducing carbon emissions from traditional fossil fuel energies.[1–3] Among them, fuel cells and metal–air batteries

Y. Wang, M. Liu, Y. Zhang, Q. Yi School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Hunan University of Science and Technology Xiangtan 411201, P.R. China E-mail: yqfyy2001@hnust.edu.cn

Q. Yi Hunan Provincial Key Lab of Advanced Materials for New Energy Storage and Conversion

Xiangtan 411201, P. R. China R. Yi i- Lab CAS Center for Excellence in Nanoscience Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics Chinese Academy of Science Suzhou 215123, P. R. China E-mail: rwyi2021@sinano.ac.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.202201330.

**DOI: 10.1002/admi.202201330**

are drawing much attention because of their high energy density and environmental benignity. These batteries share the same cathodic reaction, that is, the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[4] Considering the intrinsic sluggish kinetic of ORR, the electroactivity of cathodic catalysts for ORR plays a key role in the performance of batteries.[5,6] Therefore, the development of kinetically improved ORR electrocatalysts is of great significance for the promotion and large-scale application of these batteries. It is well-known that traditional platinum or platinum-based nanomaterials exhibit superior electrocatalytic activity in ORR,[7] but they suffer from shortcomings such as high cost and poor methanol resistance, hindering their large-scale practical application. Therefore, it is essential to develop non-platinum (or non-precious metal) ORR catalysts with a low-cost and facile preparation process.[8,9]

These non-precious metal ORR catalysts can be mainly categorized into two types: 1) metal-free carbon-based materials with regulated microstructures and doping elements (such as nitrogen, phosphorus, boron, etc.).[10–13] Lv et al. used triacetylene benzene to selectively dope hydrogen-substituted graphdiyne (HsGDY) by cross-coupling reaction, and the synthesized pyridine N-HsGDY in the alkaline medium exhibited higher electrocatalytic activity for ORR than Pt/C, as well as the higher stability and methanol tolerance than Pt/C.[14] Moreover, its ORR catalytic performance in the acidic medium is comparable to Pt/C. Wang et al. used an NaCl-sealed MOF after pyrolysis to in situ construct a 3D nanoscale polyhedral carbon composed of polyhedral and nanosheet carbon. This carbon composite contains high N doping levels and abundant electrocatalytic active sites, presenting ORR activity comparable to Pt/C.[15] Cao et al. used the general defect engineering of vapor salt to modify the sp3 mixed carbon surface with hybrid carbon defect, and the obtained carbon-based catalyst has much improved ORR electrocatalytic performance with the half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.85 V.[16] 2) Carbon-based transition metal nanoparticle composite catalysts: transition metal nanoparticles such as iron, cobalt, nickel, and other metal nanoparticles are loaded on various carbon matrixes with varied micro-morphology.[17] These composites are conventionally fabricated by thermal treatment.[18] By loading Ni/Fe/P-cube nanoparticles on a 3D interconnected FeN decorative carbon (3D-FeNC), Shumaila et al.

21967350, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

synthesized a bifunctional ORR/OER catalyst with a rich ORR active site, and the corresponding oxygen electrode showed good charging and discharge performance.[19] Mohammad et al. synthesized a nano-cactus-shaped Co3O4-loading carbon nanotubes (CNT) composite which shows a large specific area, strong conductivity, and rich active sites, being a substitute for Pt/C to undertake efficient ORR activity.[20] Hazarika et al. used the hydrothermal method to synthesize cubic Mn2O3-loading nanomaterials based on Vulcan XC-72 R carbon and found that the prepared electrocatalysts exhibited high electrocatalytic activity, enhanced mass activity, and excellent stability in alkaline media compared with commercially available Pt/C.[21] In addition, Guo et al. used the covalent organic polymer of the layered tetraphenyl porphyrin group (TPP base) as the precursor, uniformly dispersed Fe3O4 nanoparticles in the layered FeNC catalyst by pyrolysis. The resulting catalyst shows a high ORR half-wave potential exceeding 20 mV compared with Pt/C in the alkaline medium.[22] CoMn2O4 spinel particles loaded on nitrogen-doped carbon as an efficient ORR catalyst were also synthesized using ionic thermal method by He et al.[23]

Among these non-precious metal catalysts, cobalt phthalocyanine (CoPc) has attracted extensive attention due to its good ORR electrocatalytic properties in an alkaline medium. A series of materials prepared with CoPc have further proved their ORR activity.[24] It has been shown that the ORR electrocatalytic activity of the catalysts with a complete MN4 macro loop depends on the central ion and ligand structure. CoPc is a chelating structure containing four CoN coordination bonds and rich nitrogen atoms, which are the main source of the CoN active group. Fan et al. synthesized a Co/N-C-800 catalyst with rich CoN*X* sites and carbon defect, which not only showed the superior OER catalytic performance with an acceptable 274 mV overpotential to commercial RuO2 catalyst but also showed a high half-wave potential of 0.82 V in the ORR in alkaline medium.[25] This also further shows that the CoN*<sup>x</sup>* active site and carbon defects can reduce the adsorption energy of intermediates (OH\*, O\*, O\*, and OOH\*) and enhance the electron transfer capacity, thus endowing CoPc with advantages of the intrinsic high-density catalytic active sites and high chemical stability.[26–30]

Herein, a facile method for all-solid-state synthesis of highefficiency ORR catalysts was proposed, which includes the ball milling of porous g-C3N4/CoPc mixture and subsequent carbonization, based on the findings that CoPc can be decomposed in Co-N4 active groups under the action of ball milling and g-C3N4 can enhance the ORR activity of catalysts.[31–35] First, the porous g-C3N4 was prepared by pyrolyzing the mixture of dicyandiamide and NH4Cl. Then, CoPc was mixed with the porous g-C3N4 and subjected to the ball-milling treatment in a high-energy planetary ball milling, leading to the partial decomposition of CoPc into CoN fragment groups. Catalyst samples were finally obtained by the high-temperature pyrolysis process, as indicated in **Figure 1**. During high-temperature pyrolysis, g-C3N4 decomposes into nitrogen-containing intermediates and interacts with CoPc to form a large number of ORR active groups, thus greatly enhancing the electroactivity of the catalyst. The solid-state synthesis method avoids or reduces the shortcomings of agglomeration and complex operation in the liquid-state synthesis, and it possesses such outstanding advantages as easy operation, simple process, uniform particle size, less pollution, low cost, and easy scale production. The ORR activity of the samples was tested in the full pH range (acidic, neutral, and alkaline electrolytes). The results show that even

**Figure 1.** Schematic diagram for the synthesis of the samples.

21967350, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** SEM images of the catalysts a) g-C3N4@CoPc-1, b) g-C3N4@CoPc-2, c) g-C3N4@CoPc-3, and d) g-C3N4@CoPc-4.

in the acidic solution, the ORR onset potential and half-wave potential of the catalyst g-C3N4@CoPc-3 reach 0.83 and 0.74 V (vs RHE), respectively, being comparable with those of the Pt/C. Moreover, in alkaline and neutral media, the ORR onset and half-wave potential of the catalyst g-C3N4@CoPc-3 exhibit a more positive shift than those of Pt/C. In addition, the catalyst has excellent electroactivity stability and is completely electrochemically inert to alcohol. This work provides a novel and facile approach to developing ORR electrocatalysts with practical applications.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

All samples were synthesized in an all-solid-state via the combined planetary ball milling and pyrolysis, as indicated in Figure 1. High energy ball milling will lead to the partial destruction of CoPc and form fragment moieties which are then immobilized on the porous g-C3N4 matrix. In the subsequent pyrolysis process, g-C3N4 was decomposed to produce N-containing intermediates, which are incorporated with the carbon particles derived from CoPc to form N-doped carbon nanosheets. As observed in **Figure 2**, CoPc with an open 3D mountain cluster lamellar structure was prepared by planetary ball milling and pyrolysis with the help of g-C3N4.

SEM and EDS techniques were applied to characterize the structural morphology and element composition of the prepared catalysts. As shown in Figure 2a–e; Figure S1, Supporting Information, all the samples synthesized form a unique 3D open thin layer nanoarchitecture similar to wave peaks and irregular superimposed peaks.[36] This lamellar structure results in a large number of wrinkles, which is conducive to forming a large surface active area. This result shows that the planetary ball milling will contribute to the final morphology of the materials. Under the action of the high-energy planetary ball milling, the molecule structure of CoPc is destroyed to form a more active site. Among the four samples obtained using planetary ball milling, g-C3N4@CoPc-4(d) displays more overlapping peaks of the sheet-like carbon. What is more exciting is that, in g-C3N4@CoPc-3(c), there are also small overlapping structures and obvious porous stacked structures, which will directly or indirectly affect the catalytic performance of the sample itself.

Mapping electron microscopy energy spectrum (EDS) is used to analyze the elemental composition and distribution, and to deeply analyze their structural composition. **Figure 3**a presents the specific element distribution of all samples. We can clearly know the mass percentage of Co and N in different samples: g-C3N4@CoPc-1(8.36%, 27.19%), g-C3N4@CoPc-2(6.26%, 31.13%), g-C3N4@CoPc-3(6.96%, 30.88%), g-C3N4@CoPc-4(7.37%, 28.83%), and g-C3N4@CoPc-3-M (5.9%, 23.5%). The results show that compared with simple ball milling shown in the g-C3N4@CoPc-3-M, the relative content of Co on the four samples after planetary ball milling significantly increases, and nitrogen content also increases by 6.01% on average, while the g-C3N4@CoPc-3-M reveals a higher C content. This further indicates that the destruction of ball milling on CoPc and g-C3N4 contributes to the loss of more carbon-containing intermediates formed during pyrolysis, resulting in the increment of the relative content of Co. On the contrary, the active intermediates contribute to N doping into the carbon matrix to increase N content and thus provide a large number of active sites. Figure 3b reveals the elements distribution of g-C3N4@CoPc-3. C, N, O, and Co elements are evenly distributed on the sample structure, which indicates that after ball milling, metal Co particles or Co-containing moieties are successfully anchored on g-C3N4.

**Figure 3.** a) EDS spectra of all elements; b) SEM image for EDS measurement and corresponding elemental mapping images for C, N, O, and Co of g-C3N4@CoPc-3.

**Figure 4**a–e shows TEM images with resolutions from 200 to 5 nm (Other TEM images at different magnifications are shown in Figure S2, Supporting Information). It is observed from Figure 4a that the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 presents the lamellar appearance of the gauze-like carbon loaded with cobalt. Figure 4b shows that metal Co particles are distributed in granular irregular dense packing. According to the distribution histogram of particle size, the average particle size of metal Co is 4.47 nm. Surprisingly, the metal particle (in the yellow square) was measured in high-resolution HRTEM where there appears a minimum particle size of 0.3 nm and an average particle size of 0.5 nm, suggesting that there is a small amount of quasi-single atomic Co in the structure of the sample g-C3N4@CoPc-3.[31,32] These may be the clusters formed by a few single atoms Co produced via the high-energy planetary ball milling. Due to the high activity of quasi-single atom Co, this will greatly improve the catalytic performance of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 and proves that the planetary ball milling can effectively decompose CoPc and reassemble its molecule configuration to form Co atom clusters. In addition, the lattice spacing of 0.22, 0.18, and 0.158 nm is further observed in Figure 4c, corresponding to the plane of Co (111), (200), and (220) respectively.[27,37,38] In addition, the 0.336 nm belongs to the plane of C (002).[39] According to Figure 4e, the crystal plane spacing of 0.25 nm can be allocated to the Co (311) plane.

**Figure 4.** a,b) TEM images of g-C3N4@CoPc-3; c-e) HRTEM images of g-C3N4@CoPc-3.

21967350, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** XRD patterns of the prepared catalysts.

The XRD patterns (**Figure 5**) show the crystal structure characteristics of all samples. The observed peak at 26.2° belongs to the graphite carbon (002) plane, and the relatively obvious two peaks located at 44.26° and 51.52° correspond to the Co surface cubic structure (111) and (200), respectively. Further, we also notice a weak peak at 75.87°, which is related to the Co (220) plane.[40] All of these results are consistent with the previous TEM analysis, which will verify the successful doping of Co in the sample. **Figure 6**a shows the Raman spectra of the catalyst g-C3N4@CoPc-3. D peak at 1350 cm–1 reflects the condition of amorphous carbon, and the G peak value at 1580 cm–1 represents the graphitization degree of carbon. According to the peak fitting calculation, the peak height ratio (*I*D/*I*G) is 1.296. This indicates that the sample g-C3N4@CoPc-3 has a certain degree of graphitization and also has more carbon defect structures, which will provide more active sites for ORR catalysis.[41,42]

The bonding information, composition, and valence states of the catalyst g-C3N4@CoPc-3 were further explored by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The energy spectrum shows the composition content of C (71.27%), N (20.66%), O (5.93%), and Co (2.14%). Figure 6b exhibits the full spectrum profile of the catalyst g-C3N4@CoPc-3, showing that the C, N, O, and Co elements are present in the sample. The results obtained from the peak position fitting of C 1s are indicated in Figure 6b, and the binding energies of the three major peaks correspond to 284.64 eV (CC), 285.87 eV (NC), and 287.65 eV (CC). To determine the bond type and content of nitrogen, the spectra of the N 1s were fitted to the three main peaks: 398.47, 400.47, and 402.9 eV corresponding to pyridine nitrogen (59.08%), pyrrolic nitrogen (32.06%), and graphite nitrogen (8.86%), respectively. It is generally considered that the C atoms around pyridine N and graphite N can serve as the active sites for the ORR.[43,44] According to the XPS data, the contents of pyridine N and graphite N account for more than half of the total N in the catalyst, which would provide a powerful demonstration of the high electrocatalytic activity of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3. The highresolution O 1s energy spectrum (Figure 6d) was also fitted to three main subpeaks, including 530.52, 531.77, and 534.43 eV, corresponding to CO, CO, and COOR, respectively. The 2P spectra of the Co (Figure 6e) were deconvolved into Co 2p1/2 and Co 2p3/2 peaks at 780.41 and 796.03 eV, and the difference between the two peaks was 15.62 eV, which fits well with the theoretical data of Co2<sup>+</sup>. In addition, Co characteristic

**Figure 6.** a) Raman spectra of g-C3N4@CoPc-3; b–f) XPS of full spectrum diagram (b); high-resolution spectrum of C 1S (c), N 1S (d), O 1S (e), and Co2P (f) of g-C3N4@CoPc-3.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmatinterfaces.de

peaks corresponding to 783.00 eV and two shake-up satellite peaks of 786.08 and 802.82 eV were also observed. Among these, the 780.41, 783.00, and 796.03 eV peaks were attributed to Co<sup>3+</sup>, Co<sup>2+</sup>, and Co<sup>3+</sup>, respectively.<sup>[45,46]</sup> The two peaks involved with Co 2p<sup>3/2</sup> belonged to Co–N and Co–C, and the peak at 786.08 eV confirmed the presence of the Co–O bond on the surface of the catalyst. It is the existence of these active groups of Co–N that greatly increases the electron transfer rate between Co and N doped graphite carbon, thus improving the ORR catalytic performance of the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3.<sup>[47,48]</sup>

ORR electroactivity of the prepared catalysts was evaluated by CV and LSV techniques. Figure S3, Supporting Information shows the CV profiles of the samples prepared via ball milling in either N2-saturated or O2-saturated electrolytes including 0.1 м KOH, 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub> and 4 м NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 KCl. No obvious cathodic peak was observed for all the catalysts in N2-saturated electrolytes, while the cathode current density in O2-saturated solutions revealed a significant increase. Figure 7a shows that in 0.1 M KOH, the ORR potential peaks of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3, and g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-4 were 0.847, 0.849, 0.900, and 0.772 V, showing their efficient ORR electroactivity and the superior ORR performance of the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 to other three samples. Cyclic voltammetry curves of all catalysts in 0.1 M HClO4 solution are shown in Figure 7c; Figure S3(b), Supporting Information, where there is still no obvious cathodic reduction peak in N2-saturated solution while a well-defined ORR peak appears at 0.675, 0.617, 0.533, and 0.517 V corresponding to g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3, and g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-4, respectively. However, the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 presents the largest peak current among the samples. In the neutral electrolyte shown in Figure 7e, the ORR potential peaks of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3, and g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-4 are 0.859, 0.804, 0.754, and 0.764 V. Encouragingly, the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 still stands out among the prepared samples, further confirming the excellent ORR activity of the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 in the full pH range. By comparing CV curves of the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 at the first and the 1000th cyclic sweeping in three different O<sub>2</sub>-saturated solutions (Figure 7b,d,f), it is found that no significant shift was found in current density and the CV profiles were almost completely coincident, which indicates that the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 has excellent electrocatalytic stability.

Considering the role of the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of the samples in their electroactivity, ECSA values of the samples were reckoned according to the CV curves recorded in the charge/discharge range of the double layer, as indicated in Figures S4-S6, Supporting Information. Figure 8 displays the corresponding linear fitting diagrams of all samples in different pH solutions. In an alkaline solution, the ECSA values of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2,  $g-C_3N_4$ @CoPc-3, and  $g-C_3N_4$ @CoPc-4 are 5.88, 6.07, 12.35, and 8.26 cm<sup>2</sup>, respectively. In 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub>, their ECSA values correspond to 18.56, 19.21, 36.29, and 13.43 cm<sup>2</sup>, respectively. In addition, in 4 M NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 KCl solution, their respective ECSA values are 14.98, 23.66, 50.10, and 14.64 cm<sup>2</sup>. These results suggest that the ECSA value of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 was significantly higher than that of other catalysts in the full pH system. This would be related to that during the planetary ball milling; less g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> (for g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1 and g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2) is not conducive to the dispersion of CoPc and its moieties obtained, while more  $g-C_3N_4$  (for  $g-C_3N_4$ @CoPc-4) is not conducive to the full grinding of CoPc. The active surface area of the  $g-C_3N_4$ @CoPc-3 would be beneficial to its ORR catalysis.

The ORR performance of all catalysts was further evaluated using the RDE. Figure 9a-c presents the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) of all samples and Pt/C in O2-saturated three different pH systems at 1600 rpm at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The corresponding onset potential, half-wave potential, and limiting diffusion current density for ORR are shown in Figure 9d-f. It is found from Figure 9d-f that the onset potential and half-wave potential of the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 are the most outstanding of all catalysts. In 0.1 M KOH solution, its high onset potential (1.07 V) is comparable to that of commercial Pt/C (1.10 V) and its halfwave potential (1.00 V) even exceeds that of Pt/C (0.99 V). The g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 also performs efficient ORR activity in 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub> solution, with an onset potential of 0.83 V and a halfwave potential of 0.74 V. In quasi-neutral 4 м NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 м KCl solution, the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 reveals an onset potential of 0.94 V and a half-wave potential of 0.88 V, which exceed that of Pt/C (0.89 and 0.78 V). It is further seen from Figure 9d-f that whether in acidic, neutral, or alkaline solution, the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 performs the highest ORR limiting current density, except that the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2 presents a higher current density at potential lower than ≈0.6 V in alkaline medium. Results show that the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 exhibits the best comprehensive performance for ORR in a full pH range.

For a more specific analysis of ORR dynamics on the samples, Tafel lines derived from the LSV curve at 1600 rpm in three different pH systems and their corresponding slopes obtained by Tafel are shown in Figure 9g-i. In 0.1 м КОН solution (Figure 9g), the Tafel slope of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 is 115.94 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is compared with that of other catalysts (g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1 is 119.99 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, g-C3N4@CoPc-2 is 118.86 mV  $dec^{-1}$ , g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-4 is 130.4 mV  $dec^{-1}$ , and CoPc is 123.25 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ). It is also very close to Pt/C (116.23 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ). In neutral solution (Figure 9i), the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 reveals a minimum Tafel slope of 146.89 mV dec-1 among the prepared samples, which is very close to 142.36 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> of Pt/C. Similarly, the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 presents the minimum Tafel slope of 147.84 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in acidic solution among the samples (Figure 9h), slightly larger than Pt/C (135.07 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). These show that in the full pH range, ORR kinetic performance on the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3 has been significantly improved, further verifying the feasibility and rationality of the catalyst synthesis strategy in this work.

Figure 10a further compares the LSV curves of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@ CoPc-3 and g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@ CoPc-3.<sub>M</sub> obtained by manual grinding in 0.1  $\,\rm M$  HClO<sub>4</sub> solution to investigate the role of planetary ball milling in catalyst performance. The ORR performance of the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@ CoPc-3 comprehensively surpasses the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@ CoPc-3.<sub>M</sub> as indicated in Figure 10a,b. The g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>4@ CoPc-3 displays higher values than the C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@ CoPc-3-<sub>M</sub> in the ORR onset potential, half-wave potential, and limiting diffusion current density (Figure 10b), indicating that the ORR performance of catalysts can be improved effectively by planetary ball milling.

The ORR reaction pathway on the catalysts was further explored based on the LSV curves of each catalyst at different rotating rates (as shown in Figures S7–S11, Supporting

21967350, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 7.** Cyclic voltammetry (CV) of all samples in O2 saturated a) 0.1 m KOH, c) 0.1 m HClO4, and e) 4 m NH4Cl + 1 m KCl solution at 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> . CVs for 1000 consecutive sweeps in O2-saturated b) 0.1 m KOH, d) 0.1 m HClO4, and f) 4 m NH4Cl + 1 m KCl solution at 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup>

Information). During the operation of the air electrode, the ORR usually occurs at the three-phase interface to produce peroxides via a two-electron pathway, or water/OH– (in acidic/alkaline) via a four-electron pathway. The four-electron transfer process is the ideal one for fuel cells, which not only avoids the formation of peroxide which will destroy the catalyst but also

21967379, 2022, 30, Downoladed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wieley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wieley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 8. The linear fit used for the ECSA in a) 0.1 m KOH, b) 0.1 m HClO4, and c) 4 m NH4Cl + 1 m KCl solution at various scan rates. Data were obtained from Figures S4–S6, Supporting Information.

**Figure 9.** RDE polarization curves for the ORR obtained in  $O_2$ -saturated a) 0.1 M KOH, b) 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub>, and c) 4 M NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 M KCl solution at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and 1600 rpm. Onset potential ( $E_1$ ), half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) and limiting diffusion current density (j) obtained in  $O_2$ -saturated d) 0.1 M KOH, e) 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub>, and f) 4 M NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 M KCl solution at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and 1600 rpm. Tafel plots derived from LSV curves in using  $O_2$ -saturated g) 0.1 M KOH, h) 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub>, and i) 4 M NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 M KCl solution at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and 1600 rpm.

21967350, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 10.** a) RDE polarization curves of g-C3N4@CoPc-3 and g-C3N4@CoPc-3-M at 1600 rpm in using O2-saturated 0.1 m HClO4 aqueous solution at 5 mV s–1. b) ORR onset potential, half-slope potential, and limiting diffusion current density of g-C3N4@CoPc-3 and g-C3N4@CoPc-3-M in O2-saturated 0.1 m HClO4 solution.

greatly improves the density and output voltage of the cell. Corresponding Levich plots of the catalysts in 0.1 m KOH (**Figure 11**a), 0.1 m HClO4 (Figure 11b), and 4 m NH4Cl +1 m KCl (Figure 11c) were applied to calculate the ORR electron transfer number (*n*), and the results are shown in Figure 11d–f. In all pH systems, the *n* values of all the prepared catalysts are in the range of 3 to 4, and g-C3N4@CoPc-3 has the highest *n* value close to 4. This reveals that oxygen gas is almost completely reduced to water on these electrocatalysts with a highly efficient four-electron process.

Considering the potential application situation of the prepared catalyst in fuel cells, such as direct alcohol (methanol, alcohol, etc.) fuel cell and the possible effect of the alcohol permeation on the cathode (air electrode) through the ion-exchange membrane, anti-alcohol tolerance of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 was also investigated in full pH solutions. **Figure 12**a–c exhibits the LSVs of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 in O2-saturated electrolyte with or without the addition of methanol. It is seen from Figure 12a–c that the presence of methanol in the cathodic electrolyte (alkaline, acidic, and neutral) shows no significant change in the *E*onset, *E*1/2, and limit diffusion current density, proving that methanol has little effect on ORR electroactivity of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3. The electrochemical inertness of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 to methanol oxidation makes it possible to become a promising cathodic catalyst of direct alcohol fuel cells.

**Figure 11.** The Levich plots of all prepared catalysts in a) 0.1 m KOH, b) 0.1 m HClO4, and c) 4 m NH4Cl + 1 m KCl solution. The electron transfer number (*n*) of all the prepared catalysts in d) 0.1 m KOH, e) 0.1 m HClO4, and f) 4 m NH4Cl + 1 m KCl solution.

21967350, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/admi.202201330 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 12.** Anti-methanol tolerance of the catalyst g-C3N4@CoPc-3 in a) 0.1 m KOH, b) 0.1 m HClO4, and c) 4 m NH4Cl + 1 m KCl solution in the absence or presence of 0.5 m methanol.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a combination of high-energy planetary ball milling and pyrolysis is proved to be the effective method for all-solid-state synthesis of highly efficient ORR electrocatalysts. Adjusting the ratio of porous g-C3N4 to CoPc can strengthen the auxiliary effect of g-C3N4, and planetary grinding can destroy the CoPc structure, which will increase the number of active groups in the sample as much as possible. In the subsequent pyrolysis process, non-noble metal (Co) nanoparticles loaded on carbon nanosheets with excellent ORR properties are synthesized and the form composites are characterized by a unique 3D open sheet cluster structure. In alkaline and neutral systems, the prepared g-C3N4@CoPc-3 has superior ORR performance over commercial Pt/C. Even in an acidic solution, the ORR onset potential of the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 moves negative only by 0.06 V compared with Pt/C, but its limit diffusion current density is 1.52 mA cm–2 higher than Pt/C. In addition, in full pH ranges including acidic, neutral, and alkaline media, a four-electron transfer process of ORR prominently prevails over a two-electron process on the prepared catalysts. In addition, the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 reveals excellent long-term stability and extremely high methanol-tolerance performance. The excellent electrocatalytic activity of g-C3N4@CoPc-3 can be attributed to the fact that the CoN4 active group is retained as much as possible by planetary ball milling. Meanwhile, the porous g-C3N4 perfectly assists CoPc to form a large number of CoN4 active groups and active sites caused by its rich N content and carbon defect structure. The synergistic effect of planetary ball milling and pyrolysis leads to the increment in the content of the CoN4 active group and pyridine N atoms, as well as the formation of a 3D open sheet cluster structure. The unique structure makes the g-C3N4@CoPc-3 present a high specific area and more exposed active sites, which increase the limiting diffusion current density and subsequently, greatly improve the ORR performance of the catalyst. This work provides a novel strategy for the all-solid-state synthesis of ORR non-noble metal electrocatalysts with highly effective performance in full pH ranges.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Chemicals*: Ammonium chloride, dicyandiamide, and cobalt phthalocyanine (CoPc) were purchased from the Aladdin chemical reagent official website; commercial Pt/C (40%, Johnson Matthey Corp.) was obtained from Shanghai Qun Yi Energy Equipment Company; pure water (18.2 MΩ cm) was produced from high-purity water generator; absolute ethanol was purchased from Shantou Xi long Chemical Plant, China; Nafion solution (5%, DuPont) was purchased from Sinopharm Holding Chemical Reagent Shanghai Co., LTD.

*Preparation of Porous g-C3N4*: A certain amount of dicyandiamide and ammonium chloride (mass ratio of 1:5) were well mixed and then transferred to a tubular furnace to be subjected to pyrolysis under N2 airflow. The furnace was heated to 550 °C at a rate of 3 °C min−<sup>1</sup> and held at this temperature for 4 h. After cooling to room temperature, porous g-C3N4 nanosheet powder was obtained.

*Preparation of g-C3N4@CoPc*: As a typical synthesis, 1.5 g g-C3N4 and 300 mg cobalt phthalocyanine (mass ratio of 5/1) were mixed and transferred to a planetary ball milling tank. After adding 50 g agate balls (10 mm diameter), the ball milling started working at a rotating rate of 350 rpm and lasted for 24 h to obtain the evenly mixed precursor powder. Then, the precursor was placed in a crucible and transferred to the tubular furnace for pyrolysis under N2 airflow. The furnace was heated to 600 °C at a rate of 3 °C min<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and held at this temperature

for 2 h, then continued to be heated to  $800^{\circ}$  and held for another 2 h. After cooling to room temperature, the black powder was collected and named g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3. Other samples, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-1, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-2, and g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-4 were also prepared by the same process as the g-C $_3N_4$ @CoPc-3 according to the different mass ratios of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> and cobalt phthalocyanine (5/1, 5/2, 5/4), respectively. For comparison, a pure CoPc sample in the absence of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> was also prepared using the same method to the g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-x (x = 1,2,3,4) to show the role of g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>. In addition, to investigate the role of the planetary ball milling, g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> and cobalt phthalocyanine were simply mixed by manual grinding in a mortar at a mass ratio of 5/1. Then, the mixture was also placed in a crucible and pyrolyzed in the same way as the sample g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3. Finally, the black catalyst material collected was named g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>@CoPc-3-<sub>M</sub>.

Physical Characterization: Structure morphologies and compositions of the catalysts were characterized by Field emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDS), mapping (EDAX super octane), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The element composition and content of the samples were analyzed using the energy disperse spectroscopy (EDS). The X-ray diffraction method (XRD) was used to investigate the crystallographic properties and phase orientation of the catalyst structures. Raman spectroscopy was used to determine the graphitization properties of the samples. The chemical states of elements in the sample were characterized using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).

Electrochemical Characterization: The ORR performance of the sample was tested on a three-electrode system with an electrochemical workstation (Auto Lab PGSTAT30/FRA) using the Pt electrode, Ag/AgCl (in saturated KCl) electrode, and glassy carbon (GC) disk electrode coated with catalyst ink (GC, diameter = 3 mm, area of 0.071cm<sup>2</sup>) as the counter electrode, reference, and working electrodes respectively. Electrolytes with a full pH range used for the ORR test were applied including 0.1 M KOH solution (alkaline), 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solution (acidic), and a mixture of 4 M NH<sub>4</sub>Cl + 1 M KCl (quasi-neutral). All potentials reported in this work were converted into the reversible hydrogen electrode potential based on the following formula:

$$(E_{RHE}/V) = E_{A\sigma/A\sigma Cl} + 0.197 + 0.0591 \times pH \tag{1}$$

For the preparation of the GC working electrode, the GC surface was first carefully polished with  $\mathrm{Al_2O_3}$  powder, then washed with pure water and dried naturally. In addition, the fine ink-like catalyst dispersion was prepared by adding 5 mg of prepared catalyst powder to a mixture of 0.95 mL ethanol and 0.05 mL of 5% Nafion, followed by ultrasound treatment for 1 h. 20 µL of the ink dispersion was coated with a micropipette onto the clean GC electrode and left to dry at room temperature to get the GC working electrode with the prepared catalyst loading of 1.4 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. As a comparison, the benchmark40% Pt/C modified GC electrode with Pt/C loading of 0.7 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> (Pt 0.28 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) was also prepared using the same procedure.

For further analysis of the ORR mechanism on the catalysts, the ORR electron transfer number (n) was calculated according to the Koutecky-Levich (k-L) equation by using the limiting diffusion current density and rotation rate of RDE:

$$\left(\frac{1}{j} = \frac{1}{j_{L}} + \frac{1}{j_{K}} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{1/2}} + \frac{1}{j_{K}}\right) \tag{2}$$

where, j,  $j_L$  and  $j_K$  represent the measured current density, the limiting diffusion current density, and the kinetic current density respectively. Bis the slope of the Levich curve, and  $\omega$  is the electrode rotation rate. The value of *n* could be calculated from the value of B:

$$(B = 0.2nFC_{O_2}D_{O_2}^{2/3}v^{-1/6})$$
(3)

In Equation (3), n is the number of electrons transferred during ORR, F is the Faraday constant (96 485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>), C<sub>O2</sub> is the saturated oxygen concentration in the electrolyte at room temperature

(1.2  $\times$  10<sup>-6</sup> mol cm<sup>-3</sup>),  $D_{O2}$  is the diffusion coefficient of oxygen in the water (1.93  $\times$  10<sup>-5</sup> cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), and  $\nu$  is the kinematic viscosity of the solution at room temperature (0.01 cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>).

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

The authors are thankful for the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21875062) and Innovation training program for college students of Hunan Province in 2022.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

#### **Keywords**

ball milling, cobalt phthalocyanine, g-C3N4, oxygen reduction reaction

Received: June 14, 2022 Revised: August 10, 2022 Published online: September 13, 2022

- [1] L. Z. Liu, G. Zeng, J. X. Chen, L. L. Bi, L. M. Dai, Z. H. Wen, Nano Energy 2018, 49, 393.
- [2] L. J. Yang, J. L. Shui, L. Du, Y. Y. Shao, J. Liu, L. M. Dai, Z. Hu, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1804799.
- [3] S. M. Zhang, M. H. Chen, X. Zhao, J. L. Cai, W. Yan, Yen, J. C., S. L. Chen, Y. Yu, J. J. Zhang, Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2021, 4,
- [4] Q. Q. Zhang, J. Q. Guan, Energy Environ. Mater. 2021, 4, 307.
- [5] I. S. Amiinu, X. B. Liu, Z. H. Pu, W. Q. Li, Q. D. Li, J. Zhang, H. L. Tang, H. N. Zhang, S. C. Mu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28,
- S. Zaman, L. Huang, A. I. Douka, H. Yang, B. Y., B. Y. Xia, Angew Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 17832.
- [7] L. Huang, S. Zaman, X. L. Tian, Z. T. Wang, W. S. Fang, B. Y. Xia, Acc. Chem. Res. 2021, 54, 311.
- [8] S. Samad, K. S. Loh, W. Y. Wong, T. K. Lee, J. Sunarso, S. T. Chong, W. R. Wan Daud, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2018, 43, 7823.
- [9] Z. J. Kong, D. C. Zhang, Y. X. Lu, C. M. Yang, S. Q. Du, W. Li, L. Tao, S. Y. Wang, ACS Mater. Lett. 2021, 3,1610.
- [10] S. Macchi, I. Denmark, T. Le, M. Forson, M. B. A. Jalihal, N. S., Electrochem 2022, 3, 1.
- [11] J. Quílez-Bermejo, E. Morallón, D. Cazorla-Amoros, Carbon 2020, 165, 434.
- [12] L. L. Chen, X. L. Xu, W. X. Yang, J. B. Jia, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2020, 31,

- [13] R. R. Yun, B. B. Zhang, F. Y. Zhan, Z. F. Xin, T. Sheng, Z. S. Shi, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 9375.
- [14] Q. Lv, W. Y. Si, J. J. He, L. Sun, C. F. Zhang, N. Wang, Z. Yang, X. D. Li, X. Wang, W. Q. Deng, Y. Z. Long, C. S. Huang, Y. L. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 3376.
- [15] Y. Q. Wang, L. Tao, Z. H. Xiao, R. Chen, Z. Q. Jiang, S. Y. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1705356.
- [16] Y. J. Cao, Z. Liu, Y. T. Tang, C. J. Huang, Z. L. Wang, F. Liu, Y. W. Wen, B. Shan, R. Chen, *Carbon* **2021**, *180*, 1.
- [17] R. R. Yun, F. Y. Zhan, X. J. Wang, B. B. Zhang, T. Sheng, Z. F. Xin, J. J. Mao, S. J. Liu, B. S. Zheng, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2006951.
- [18] P. Lang, N. N. Yuan, Q. Q. Jiang, Y. C. Zhang, J. G. Tang, *Energy Technol.* **2020**, *8*, 1900984.
- [19] S. Ibraheem, S. G. Chen, J. Li, W. Li, X. Y. Gao, Q. M. Wang, Z. D. Wei, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 699.
- [20] M. S. Ahmed, B. Choi, Y. B. K. , *Sci. Rep.* **2018**, *8*, 2543.
- [21] K. K. Hazarika, C. Goswami, H. S. , B. J. Borah, P. Bharali, *Mol. Catal.* **2018**, *451*, 153.
- [22] J. N. Guo, Y. H. Cheng, Z. H. Xiang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5*, 7871.
- [23] J. Ho, Y. Li, Y. X. Dai, T. Kim, J. Wang, J. Ren, H. Yun, X. H. Liu, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 20503.
- [24] A. Kumar, Y. Zhang, W. Liu, X. M. Sun, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *402*, 213047.
- [25] X. Z. Fan, X. Du, Q. Q. Pang, S. Zhang, Z. Y. Liu, X. Z. Yue, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 8549.
- [26] C. Z. Zhu, Q. R. Shi, B. Z. Xu, S. F. Fu, G. Wan, C. Yang, S. Y. Yao, J. H. Song, H. Zhou, D. Du, Beckman, S. P. , D. Su, Y. H. Lin, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801956.
- [27] P. Yu, L. Wang, F. F. Sun, Y. Xie, X. Liu, J. Y. Ma, X. W. Wang, C. G. Tian, J. H. Li, H. G. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1901666.
- [28] X. H. Lv, Z. X. Xiao, H. Y. Wang, X. L. Wang, L. L. Shan, F. L. Wang, C. Y. Wei, X. J. Tang, Y. L. Chen, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *54*, 626.
- [29] A. Kumar, V. K. Vashistha, V. Sharma, *Inorg. Chem. Commun.* **2021**, *127*, 108518.
- [30] S. Dursun, R. G. Akay, M. S. Yazici, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2020**, *45*, 34837.

- [31] T. Gan, Y. F. Liu, Q. He, H. Zhang, X. H. He, H. B. Ji, *Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 8692.
- [32] X. J. Cui, J. P. Xiao, Y. H. Wu, P. P. Du, R. Si, H. X. Yang, H. F. Tian, J. Q. Li, W. H. Zhang, D. H. Deng, X. H. Bao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6708.
- [33] E. L. Hu, X. Y. Yu, F. Chen, Y. D. Wu, Y. Hu, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1702476.
- [34] J. T. Jin, X. G. Fu, Q. Liu, J. Y. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, 10538.
- [35] Z. Y. Mei, S. Cai, G. F. Zhao, X. X. Zou, Y. Fu, J. W. Jiang, Q. An, M. Li, T. T. Liu, H. Guo, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 132691.
- [36] A. L. Chen, Q. F. Yi, K. Sheng, Y. B. Wang, J. C. Chen, K. W. Xiang, H. D. Nie, X. L. Zhou, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2021**, *5*, 2458.
- [37] L. C. Wei, L. J. Qiu, Y. Y. Liu, J. M. Zhang, D. S. Yuan, L. Wang, A. C. S. Sustain, *Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 14180.
- [38] L. Yu, Q. F. Yi, X. K. Yang, G. Li, *ChemistrySelect* **2018**, *3*, 12603.
- [39] F. Bai, H. Huang, Y. l. Tan, C. M. Hou, P. Zhang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *176*, 280.
- [40] K. Sheng, Q. F. Yi, A. L. Chen, Y. B. Wang, Y. H. Yan, H. D. Nie, X. L. Zhou, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 45394.
- [41] L. Huang, L. Z. Zuo, Z. Y. He, B. B. Xiao, H. Zhou, S. C. Su, Y. Li, T. Bian, A. H. Yuan, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2021**, *884*, 161011.
- [42] H. Y. Ge, G. D. Li, J. X. Shen, W. Q. Ma, X. G. Meng, L. Q. Xu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *275*, 119104.
- [43] D. H. Guo, R, S. , Chisato, A. , Shunsuke, S. , Takahiro, K. , Junji, N. , *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361.
- [44] Q. Nie, Y. X. C. , N. N. Xu, L. W. Peng, J. L. Qiao, *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 1976.
- [45] Y. Hou, T. Z. Huang, Z. H. Wen, S. Mao, S. M. Cui, J. H. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2014**, *4*, 1400337.
- [46] J. S. Li, Y. G. Tang, H. Y. Wang, C. H. Wang, J. Tian, D. P. Liu, C. M. Li, C. X. Guo, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2022**, *47*, 9905.
- [47] C. Li, T. Huang, Z. Huang, J. Sun, C. Zong, J. Yang, W. Deng, F. Dai, *Dalton Trans.* **2019**, *48*, 17258.
- [48] X. F. Dai, M. F. Zhen, P. Xu, J. J. Shi, C. Y. Ma, J. L. Qiao, *Acta. Phys. Chim. Sin.* **2013**, *29*, 1753.