---
source: Wu 等 - 2024 - Modulating Electronic Structure and Atomic Insights into the Novel Hierarchically Porous PdCuFe Trim.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.649s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:35:53.856444Z
---

# **Modulating Electronic Structure and Atomic Insights into the Novel Hierarchically Porous PdCuFe Trimetallic Alloy Aerogel for Efficient Oxygen Reduction**

*Xiaodong Wu,\* Liu Liu, Ke Yuan, Yitian Shao, Xiaodong Shen, Sheng Cui, and Xiangbao Chen*

**The high cost of noble Pd/Pt required for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in the cathode restricts the wide applications of fuel cells. In this study, the synthesis of a novel Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel electrocatalyst is successfully demonstrated using self-assembly and lyophilization techniques, employing a mild reducing agent. The resulting aerogel electrocatalyst exhibits a distinctive 3D network structure, possessing a substantial BET-specific surface area of 75.19 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1. It is worth noting that the optimized Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel demonstrates exceptional ORR performance with a high half-wave potential of 0.92 V versus RHE, a significant limiting current density of 7.6 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and the excellent electrocatalytic stability, superior to the reported noble metal electrocatalysts, with the ORR activity decays only 4.9% after 16 000 s. In addition, the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel electrocatalyst shows superior cycling stability for ≈120 h at a charge/discharge current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, indicating its promising application in fuel cells. Furthermore, the resulting composite aerogel possesses excellent hydrogen evolution reaction and ethanol oxidation reaction activity. The density functional theory calculations show that the partial oxidation of Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel leads to a negative shift of the d-band center, which energetically optimizes the binding strength of \*O intermediates, therefore accelerating the ORR activity.**

**1. Introduction**

In recent years, with the rapid growth of the world's population and the rapid development of industrialization, the energy

X. Wu, L. Liu, K. Yuan, Y. Shao, X. Shen, S. Cui College of Materials Science and Engineering

Nanjing Tech University Nanjing 211816, China

E-mail: [wuxiaodong@njtech.edu.cn](mailto:wuxiaodong@njtech.edu.cn)

X. Wu, L. Liu, K. Yuan, X. Shen, S. Cui

Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Center for Advanced Inorganic Function Composites

Nanjing Tech University Nanjing 211816, China

X. Chen

AECC Beijing Institute of Aeronautical Materials Beijing 100095, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202307243>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202307243**

demand has dramatically increased, yet is still challenging since non-renewable fossil fuels, such as coal, oil, and natural gas, are being quickly consumed.[\[1,2\]](#page-11-0) A more serious concern is that the consecutive usage of fossil fuels will induce the greenhouse effect and cause serious environmental issues. As an environmentally friendly battery that can convert chemical energy into electrical energy, fuel cells possess the advantages of low operating temperature, fast start-up, and clean products, and have been considered the future direction of clean energy development.[\[3,4\]](#page-11-0) The anodic reaction is a hydrogen oxidation reaction (HOR), while the cathodic reaction is an oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on the catalyst surface. The difference between the ORR electrode potential and the equilibrium potential is defined as the overpotential that drives the ORR process. However, ORR is a complex four electron–proton coupling transfer process with the formation of \*OOH, \*O, and \*OH intermediates, therefore leading to a sluggish reacting process.[\[5–7\]](#page-12-0) This large overpotential

and low limiting current density have limited the ORR catalytic efficiency, and therefore the efficiency of the fuel cell is decreased. Many researchers have conducted research for improving the ORR activity via experimental design, combined with theoretical calculations through the flexible orbital occupancy and various possible degrees of spin polarization.[\[8\]](#page-12-0) In conclusion, the study of the ORR electrocatalyst with low cost, excellent electrocatalytic performance, and rather stable ability remains a big challenge for fuel cell commercialization. It is imperative to design efficient ORR electrocatalysts which can overcome the sluggish four electro-proton coupling reaction kinetics, and exhibit enhanced performance and stable activity.[\[9\]](#page-12-0)

ORR Electrocatalysts are one of the key materials in fuel cells with their function to reduce the activation energy, therefore increasing the reaction rate based on the Arrhenius equation. Currently, platinum-based precious metals and their alloys are commonly used as ORR electrocatalysts. He et al. proposed a novel FeCoNiMoW high entropy alloy-based nanoparticles via the solution-based low-temperature approach, which displayed superior OER performance with an overpotential of 233 mV at

10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, 276 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, a high open circuit potential of 1.59 V, a large peak power density of 116.9 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, as well as excellent stability under cycling test due to the subtle lattice distortions, and modulated electronic structures.[\[10\]](#page-12-0) Wang et al. developed a novel porous wrinkled PdZn bimetallene with the lattice distortions and grain boundaries via the controllable construction technique of one-step hydrothermal approach, which showed much better mass activity than those of the Pd metallene, commercial Pt/C, and Pd/C with excellent electrocatalytic stability.[\[11\]](#page-12-0) However, the high cost and scarcity of the noble metal have prevented their large-scale production in the electrocatalytic field for fuel cells, therefore it is extremely important to study the noble-metal-based electrocatalyst with a much more cost-effective strategy.

With the recent development of nanoporous materials, aerogels, as light-weighted porous materials blocked from nanoparticles and polymer chains, have attracted much attention as a powerful platform for electrocatalyst fabrication due to their large specific surface area, the multiplicity of exposed active sites, and the superior catalytic activity.[\[12\]](#page-12-0) Among the different kinds of aerogels, metal, and carbon-based aerogels have shown great promising applications in electrochemistry due to their large BET-specific surface area, comprehensive functional properties, and especially good electrical conductivity. Peles et al. developed a new class of conjugated microporous organic aerogel that can be used as the covalent 3D framework for ORR electrocatalysis.[\[13\]](#page-12-0) The resulting modified aerogel functionalized with bipyridine ligands enabled copper ion complexation in a single-step synthesis, which showed high mass activity and ultra-high site density under alkaline conditions. Wang et al. reported a biomassderived method to achieve the in situ P-doping of carbon dots, followed by the combination with graphene matrix. The P-doped carbon dot/graphene nanocomposites can achieve ultra-high levels of P-doping level and they displayed excellent ORR activity, which was highly similar to the commercial Pt/C catalysts.[\[14\]](#page-12-0) Zheng et al. developed a generally in situ silicone-confined gelation strategy to integrate metal aerogels, such as PtPd, PtAg, PdAg, and AuAg, into macroporous skeletons, which can be used directly with the intrinsic structure of the metal aerogel.[\[15\]](#page-12-0) The activity and durability were significantly improved compared to the conventional folded and compressed structural ink-drop coatings. Eychmueller et al. presented a strong salting-out agent strategy to synthesize the Au-Pt aerogel with a high specific surface area, which exhibited excellent electrocatalytic properties for both ethanol oxidation (EOR) and ORR due to the unconventional organic-ligand-enhancing effect.[\[16\]](#page-12-0) However, the current synthesis route for metal aerogel is complicated, and a large content of noble metal is used for maintaining excellent ORR activity. Therefore the metal-aerogel-based ORR electrocatalysts composed of large content of cost-effective, earth-abundant elements and simple synthesis procedures are highly demanded. Furthermore, robust electrocatalysts capable of manipulating under different electrolytes and conditions are highly attractive to meet industrial requirements. In addition, the versatility of electrocatalysts is also charming for researchers of their commercialization and wider applications.[\[17,18\]](#page-12-0)

As mentioned above, most of the reported metal-based ORR electrocatalysts have shown large cost, limited generality, and complicated procedures, as well as the individual electrocatalytic characteristic, therefore discouraging the facile synthesis of metal aerogel catalysts with widely tunable compositions. Herein, we have demonstrated a novel Pd3CuFe0.5 trimetallic alloy aerogel electrocatalyst by self-assembly and lyophilization techniques using a mild reducing agent based on our previous work regarding the Pd3Cu alloy aerogel electrocatalyst.[\[19\]](#page-12-0) The resulting aerogel electrocatalyst displays a typical 3D network with a large BET-specific surface area of 75.19 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1. The optimized Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows excellent ORR performance with a large half-wave potential of 0.92 V versus RHE, as well as a large limiting current density of 7.6 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> under alkaline conditions. In addition, the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows superior durability to the commercial Pt/C catalysts, indicating its comprehensive performance for promising applications in fuel cells. In combination, the resulting composite aerogel also possesses excellent HER and EOR activity. Furthermore, the DFT calculations show that the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel with partial oxidation results in a downward shift of the d-band center of the active site, which optimizes the binding strength of the adsorbed \*O intermediates, therefore enhancing the ORR activity.

### **2. Results and Discussion**

The alloy aerogel electrocatalysts are prepared via the selfassembly process using glycolic acid monohydrate (GAM) as the reduction and gelation agent. The GAM left inside the pore structures of the wet gels can be easily removed due to its dissolution in an aqueous solution. The small and black metal aggregates, which can be also named the wet gels, can be quickly formed in the bottom of the plastic bottle with a small concentration of the metal salt via the self-assembly behavior under the assistance of GAM. The formed monolithic hydrogel can be then transformed into metal alloy aerogels via the aging, solvent exchange, and freezing drying processes.[\[20\]](#page-12-0) The self-supporting characteristics of the resulting aerogel electrocatalysts render the large BETspecific surface area, excellent electric conductivity, and a large amount of exposed active sites, which can be also attractive for further commercialization due to the direct use of the monolithic aerogel catalyst. **Figure [1](#page-2-0)**a presents the typical synthesis procedures of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogel, which exhibits a black color with a porous and rough surface. The gelation time of the trimetallic alloy aerogel is ≈3 h under 50 °C, comparable to the pristine Pd3Cu aerogel, showing that the kinetics of the sol– gel process is not delayed by the introduction of Fe metal salt. In addition, we have also synthesized many trimetallic alloy aerogels with varying Fe content to investigate the Fe content on the electrochemical property of the resulting samples, which shows similar morphologies as presented in Figure [1b.](#page-2-0)

**Figure [2](#page-2-0)**a exhibits the XRD pattern of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel catalyst, where the peaks at 40.3o, 46.9o, and 69.1° can be assigned to the (111), (200), and (220) diffraction planes of the standard cubic Pd (PDF No. 87–0654), respectively. No other forms of phases have been detected, showing it is a typical Pdbased aerogel catalyst. It is worth pointing out that the peaks are all positively shifted as compared with the pristine Pd, showing that the lattice parameters have been decreased based on Bragg's diffraction with the introduction of Cu and Fe, which can be verified by the DFT calculations after geometry optimizations (Figure S1a–c, Supporting Information). In addition, the full width at half

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthetic process. b) The digital photographs of the resulting aerogel samples with varying Fe content.

**Figure 2.** a) XRD pattern of resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel. b) Survey of XPS spectrum of Pd3CuFe0.5. High-resolution XPS spectra and corresponding fitting curves of c) Pd3d. d) Cu2p, and e) Fe2p. f) N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm and BJH pore size distribution of the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel.

maximum (FWHM) of the diffraction peaks is found to be much wider than that of the pristine Pd metal, showing its typical polycrystalline structures with much smaller grain sizes. The crystallite size is calculated as 5.6 nm according to Scherer's equation, which can be considered as the average size of the secondary particles blocking the aerogel's 3D network. The elementary quantifications of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel catalyst are determined from the XPS technique as seen in Figure 2b–e. The XPS survey (Figure 2b) shows that only Pd, Cu, Fe, O, and C elements have been observed resulting from the formed Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel, with no other elements being detected. It is worth mentioning that the detected C is from air contamination with the CO2 adsorption on the catalyst surface, while the existence of O demonstrates that the catalyst surface can be easily oxidized, which remains consistent with the LSV curves in Figure 2d. In addition, two dominant valance states including the Pd (II) and Pd (0) are involved in splitting the spin-orbit components for the Pd element. It is mentioned that the peaks (Figure 2c) located ≈335.4 and 340.7 eV belong to 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd (0), while the peaks at 336.5 and 341.8 eV are from 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of

**Table 1.** Pore structures of the resulting aerogel with different samples.

| Sample     | Micropore pore<br>volumes<br>[cm3 g−1] | BET-specific<br>surface areas<br>[m2 g−1] | BJH adsorption<br>average pore<br>diameters [nm] | BJH adsorption<br>Pore volumes<br>[cm3 g−1] |
|------------|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| Pd3CuFe0.5 | 0.029                                  | 75.19                                     | 15.29                                            | 0.31                                        |
| Pd3Cu      | 0.017                                  | 44.35                                     | 8.77                                             | 0.094                                       |

Pd (II). The high-resolution Cu 2p spectrum of the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel also reveals evident spin-orbit splitting peaks, with the peaks at 932.1 and 951.9 eV coming from 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Cu(0)/Cu(I), while peaks at 934.3 and 954.4 eV can be attributed to 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Cu (II), respectively.[\[21\]](#page-12-0) As compared with the peak positions of Pd and Cu in the pristine Pd3Cu aerogel, it is found that the peaks of both Pd and Cu all positively shifted after the introduction of Fe, showing that the involved Fe obtains some electrons from the adjacent Pd and Cu atoms with strong interactions (Figure S1d–f, Supporting Information). As for the high-resolution Fe 2p spectrum, the results indicate that the peaks located ≈711.5 and 724.8 eV belong to the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Fe (II), and the peaks at 714.1 and 727.4 eV result from the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Fe (III).[\[22\]](#page-12-0) The satellite peaks combined with the excitation for the shake-up/shake-of processes for Cu and Fe have also been labeled in Figure [2d–e.](#page-2-0) These results further confirm the surface oxidation of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel and the valance state transformation during the ORR process can facilitate a significant enhancement of the ORR activity. Figure [2f](#page-2-0) exhibits the nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms and the BJH pore size distributions of the resulting alloy aerogel samples, as well as the relative pore structure data illustrated in **Table 1**. Both the two samples possess the typical characteristics of type-II and IV mixed isotherm with capillary condensation regions of relative pressure between 0.8 and 1.0 and no plateau region has been observed, demonstrating that they display typical mesoporous structures, as well as some large pores within the 3D network. It is mentioned that the most probable diameter (inlet of Figure [2f\)](#page-2-0) of the pristine Pd3Cu aerogel is located at ≈4.0 nm, while the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel exhibits bimodal distribution with the most probable diameter at ≈2.0 and 20 nm. This fact demonstrates that a large number of mesopores have been formed with the introduction of Fe via the kinetics control of the sol–gel process. In addition, it is observed that the micropore volumes of the resultingPd3CuFe0.5 and Pd3Cu aerogel are 0.029 and 0.017 cm3 g<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, demonstrating that more micropores exist inside the pore structures of the Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogels. It can be concluded that the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel can be considered a typical hierarchical porous electrocatalyst with micropores, mesopores, and large pores inside the network. Furthermore, it should be mentioned that the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel possesses a larger BET-specific surface area of 75.19 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1, as compared with that of the pristine Pd3Cu aerogel, which is also much larger than those of the metal aerogels in the reported literature.[\[23–25\]](#page-12-0) The large BET-specific surface area remains consistent with the ECSA results, and the Pd3CuFe0.5 exhibits a BJH average pore diameter of 15.29 nm, showing the typical characteristic of porous aerogel. These results are beneficial for the significant exposure of the active sites and the rapid charge transfer rate, which is responsible for accelerating the ORR activ-

ity. SEM images are further carried out to investigate the microstructures and morphologies of the resulting aerogel electrocatalysts with varying Fe content. As illustrated in Figure S2a–f (Supporting Information), the freshly obtained aerogel electrocatalysts all show 3D macropores and mesopores frameworks composed of randomly interconnected nanoparticles. The pristine Pd3Cu aerogel shows a typical pore network with particle diameters at ≈30–40 nm (Figure S2a,b, Supporting Information), and it is worth mentioning that the majority of the pores are mesopores, while some large pores with diameters over 100 nm exist in the pore matrix. In contrast, as for the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 trimetallic alloy aerogel (Figure S2c,d, Supporting Information), the pore structures become much more homogeneous, while the diameters of the particles have been decreased to 10–20 nm, demonstrating the slightly decreased kinetic rate with the introduction of Fe species. In addition, the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel is composed of a 3D network with high porosity, abundant open tunnels, and extended nano chains, and the interconnected trimetallic nanoparticles have been directly cross-linked to the necklacelike array morphology, which is beneficial to the enhanced electrochemical activity. The EDS spectra verify the existence of the Fe element within the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel catalyst, showing the molar ratio of Pd:Cu: Fe = 3.12:1:0.267 (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The Pd/Cu molar ratio is rather close to the experimental condition, while the much lower Fe content results from the much slower gelation rate as compared with the Pd species and some amount of Fe has been dissolved in the solution, however, the DFT models are constructed according to the EDS spectra results. It is noted that with further increase of Fe content, some agglomerations of the nano aggregates and large pores with diameters larger than 200 nm are observed within the Pd3CuFe1.0 trimetallic aerogel (Figure S2e,f, Supporting Information), which hinders the electron transfer rate within the aerogel matrix, therefore deteriorating the ORR activity of the trimetallic aerogel. To evaluate the stability of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel during the ORR polarization test, the XRD patterns show no evident changes including the peak positions and intensities after the ORR test (Figure S4a, Supporting Information). We can find that all the XPS binding energy peaks (Figure Sb,c, Supporting Information) of the metal elements remain unchanged after the ORR cycling test. No new peaks have emerged and no peaks corresponding to the electron orbitals have disappeared during the cycling period. SEM image after the electrocatalytic process is also carried out (Figure S4d, Supporting Information), which indicates that no evident changes including the particles and pore sizes have been observed, further confirming its excellent ORR stability.

**Figure [3](#page-4-0)** presents the TEM images, SAED patterns, as well as EDS mapping images of the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel electrocatalyst. As seen in Figure [3a–c,](#page-4-0) it is observed that the trimetallic aerogel exhibits a typical aerogel-like microstructure with the crystallite size at ≈5–10 nm, which is consistent with the XRD results via the Scherer's equation (Figure [2a\)](#page-2-0). Additionally, the optimal aerogel catalyst is found to possess hierarchical pore structures with the majority of mesopores and the minority of micropores and large pores, as is the same circumstance in the N2 adsorption/desorption test (Figure [2f\)](#page-2-0). The lattice spacing of

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a–c) TEM images. d,e) HRTEM images. f) SAED pattern, and g–k) EDS mapping images of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel catalyst.

0.220 nm (Figure 3d,e) from the HRTEM of the obtained aerogel can be attributed to the (111) crystalline plane of the Pd metal via the refinement of the HRTEM image.[\[26\]](#page-12-0) Notably, the slight lattice distortion occurs between the grain boundary, which is caused by the embedded Cu and Fe atoms into the Pd lattice, which agrees well with the XRD results in Figure [2a.](#page-2-0) The SAED patterns (Figure 3f) reveal typical diffraction with no diffraction spots, indicating that the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel is typically poly-crystalline, which is also in good agreement with the XRD results. The diffraction rings can be assigned to the exposure of (111), (200), (220), and (311) planes of Pd metal. The EDS mapping images (Figure 3g–k) demonstrate that the Pd, Cu, and Fe elements are distributed homogeneously in the aerogel matrix, showing excellent mixing from the atomic level, which facilitates the greatly enhanced ORR performance.

To investigate the effects of pH values and Fe amount on the ORR activities of the aerogel catalysts, the LSV polarization curves with different Pd/Fe molar ratios under different pH values are carried out. The LSV curves derived under an alkaline condition with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm are displayed in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-5-0) which shows that the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel sample has the largest half-wave potential of 0.92 V versus RHE in 0.1 m KOH and a limiting current of 7.6 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, demonstrating much better ORR performance than those of the other controlling samples, as well as the commercial Pt/C and the reported metal-based ORR electrocatalysts in the previously published works (Table S1, Supporting Information).[\[27–29\]](#page-12-0) Regarding the acidic conditions (Figure [4b\)](#page-5-0), the LSV curves indicate that the Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogel still shows the best ORR activity within the five samples with a half-wave potential of 0.86 V and a limiting current density of 7.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. In addition, under neutral conditions (pH 7), the ORR catalytic activity of the resulting aerogel electrocatalysts is significantly lower than that under alkaline conditions (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0), however, the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel sample still exhibits the largest half-wave potential of 0.68 V, with a limiting current density of 4.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Furthermore, we have also plotted histograms showing the ORR activity of the five samples under different conditions (Figure [4d–f\)](#page-5-0). It can be seen that the ORR activity of the Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogel is superior to those of other controlling aerogel samples, as well as the commercial Pt/C electrocatalyst. It is also worth mentioning that Pd3CuFe0.3, Pd3CuFe0.5, and Pd3CuFe1 aerogels have much higher half-wave potentials and larger limiting current densities than those of the pristine Pd3Cu aerogels under alkaline conditions, which implies that the addition of Fe improves the ORR performance and the Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogel can be determined as the optimal sample with varying Fe content. Noteworthy, the half-wave potential and limiting current density of the Pd3CuFe0.3 alloy

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Comparisons of the ORR performance of different samples under different pH conditions. a–c) LSV curves and the d–f) column diagram showing the limiting current density and half-wave potential of five samples (Pd3Cu, Pd3CuFe0.3, Pd3CuFe0.5, Pd3CuFe1, Pt/C) under an O2-saturated atmosphere at the rotation speed of 1600 rpm with a scanning rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup>1.

aerogel are comparable to those of the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel (Figure 4d,f). However, the limiting current density of the Pd3CuFe0.3 sample under acidic conditions is only 5.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, with the half-wave potential only at 0.8 V, inferior to that of the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel. In the meantime, the lower activity of commercial Pt/C may result from the delamination and deterioration of the porous carbon during the ORR tests, whereas the self-supported Pd3CuFe0.5 trimetallic aerogel maintains its integrity and block stability, as is the same circumstance for the reported FeCoNi, PdAg, and PdAu aerogels.[\[30–32\]](#page-12-0) In addition, we have also carried out the mass activity of the ternary aerogel, and the result shows that the Pd3CuFe0.5 trimetallic aerogel possesses a large mass activity of 1.17 A/g based on the low loading density (10 μg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with mass ratio of carbon:catalyst = 1:1), kinetic current density and the Pd content derived from the ICP-OES test. These findings can be summarized by the fact that the Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogels exhibit excellent ORR activity and remain stable over universal pH values.

The ORR can be divided into the four electron–proton coupling transfer processes forming water, and the two electronproton coupling routes producing hydrogen peroxide, and therefore it is vital to study the electron transfer number (n) during the ORR via the Koutecky–Levich plots. Figure S5a–e (Supporting Information) represents the LSV curves for Pd3Cu, Pd3CuFe0.3, Pd3CuFe0.5, and Pd3CuFe1, and the commercial Pt/C at different rotation speeds, respectively. JK is the kinetic current density at the corresponding potential, while the limiting current density (JL) in the plateau region is controlled by the diffusion process. The total reaction current density follows the Koutecky–Levich equation, where the total reaction current density J<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at a constant potential is plotted as the function of <sup>−</sup>1/2 for the polarization curves at different speeds. Different applied potentials have been selected for the precise calculation of the electron transfer number of the different alloy aerogel samples.[\[33–35\]](#page-12-0) As shown in **Figure 5**[a–e,](#page-6-0) the slopes derived at different applied potentials are close to each other, as well as the derived electron transfer number. We have also plotted histograms showing the electron transfer number for different aerogel catalysts under different applied potentials (Figure [5f\)](#page-6-0). It is mentioned that the average electron transfer number of the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogel is 3.8, which is rather close to 4.0, further confirming the ORR route to be a four-electron-proton transfer process. In addition, the average electron transfer number for the pristine Pd3Cu, Pd3CuFe0.3, Pd3CuFe1, Pt/C and were 4.2, 3.7, 4.1, and 4.0 respectively, which further verifies that all the resulting aerogel catalysts present a typical four electron–proton reaction with water as a product, which is beneficial to the practical applications of fuel cells. It is worth noting that the electron transfer number can be calculated to be larger than 4.0, which can be attributed to the relatively thicker catalyst layer, the porous characteristic of the alloy aerogel catalyst, and the uncertainty of the parameters during experiments.

To further evaluate the electron transfer number and the efficiency of H2O2 production, we have also carried out the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) test by coupled transfer of twoelectron protons in the ORR process. The results (Figure S6a–e, Supporting Information) show that the four controlling samples, including pristine Pd3Cu, Pd3CuFe0.3, Pd3CuFe1, and the commercial Pt/C show the typical four-electron transfer characteristics with a small amount of H2O2 been detected by the ring electrode. Specifically, the most desirable Pd3CuFe0.5 alloy aerogels possess an electron transfer number of 3.975 to 3.981 and a low H2O2 production rate of between 0.8% and 1.2% within a wide applied potential range of 0.2–0.8 V versus RHE. This

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a–e) Koutecky–Levich plots under different applied potentials for calculating the electron transfer number, and f) the histogram of electron transfer numbers for different samples.

RRDE test further verifies the four-electron ORR reaction route with water as a product, which is essential for its application in the fuel cell field.[\[36\]](#page-12-0) To assess the effect of electrochemical active area (ECSA) on the ORR activity of the obtained aerogel samples, the double layer capacitance (*C*dl) is measured by linear correlation of the differential current density versus the scanning rate at the specifically applied potentials (**Figure 6**[a;](#page-7-0) Figure S7a–d, Supporting Information), where the slope was considered to represent the *C*dl. It can be noticed that the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel has the largest Cdl of 21.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> among all the synthesized aerogel samples and the commercial Pt/C, showing that its largest ECSA that agrees well with the LSV polarization results. In addition, the Tafel plots (Figure [6c\)](#page-7-0) are used to further validate the kinetic merit combined with the excellent ORR activity of the obtained Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel. The linear region of the Tafel plot fits the Tafel equation ( = blogj + a, where b is the Tafel slope), yielding Tafel slopes of 96, 120, 96, 111, and 98 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for Pd3Cu, Pd3CuFe0.3, Pd3CuFe0.5, Pd3CuFe1, and Pt/C, respectively. Notably, the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows a smaller Tafel slope than that of the other four controlling samples, indicating a much faster reaction kinetics, which also agrees well with the ORR LSV results. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) (Figure [6d\)](#page-7-0) is used to assess the impedance at the interface between the reactants and the electrode for the different electrocatalysts. It is worth mentioning the incomplete semicircles corresponding to the charge transfer resistance, and the linear region showing finite length diffusions combined with the mass transfer around the porous electrode are observed for all the resulting samples.[\[37\]](#page-12-0) In addition, there is a significant difference in the incomplete semicircle depending on the aerogel electrocatalyst used in the electrochemical reaction. It is worth noting that

the optimum Pd3CuFe0.5 ranks the second smallest charge transfer resistance, which is only inferior to the commercial Pt/C since the electric conductivity can be slightly decreased by the 3D network blocked from the metal aggregates. However, this value is much smaller than those of the other controlling aerogel sample and the reported electrocatalyst.[\[38\]](#page-12-0) This remains consistent with the fact that a smaller charge resistance may lead to a higher ORR activity during the electrochemical reactions. A further constant potentiostat polarization curve test is carried out under alkaline conditions, where the ORR activity decays only 4.9% after 16 000 s, further validating its excellent ORR durability and electrocatalytic stability. In addition, we have also investigated the electrocatalytic stability of the ternary aerogel under acidic and neutral conditions. The results show that the current density decays 17.6% after 16 000 s, and as for the acidic condition, the current density decays quicker than those under alkaline condition and neutral conditions, which indicates that the ternary alloy aerogel is not stable due to the deterioration and slow corrosion of the ternary alloy under strong acid condition (Figure S8, Supporting Information).

Figure S9a–c (Supporting Information) shows typical CV curves for different aerogel samples under different electrolytes with applied potentials between 0.1 and 1.2 V versus RHE. It can be observed that the CV curves show a much larger current density and reduction peaks under alkaline conditions as compared with those under acid and natural conditions, showing that the ORR activity is significantly enhanced under an alkaline situation. Furthermore, the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows the most negative current density among all the resulting samples under different circumstances, which remains consistent with the results of the LSV polarization curves. Notably, an evident

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) CV curves of Pd3CuFe0.5 with different scanning rates. b) Electrochemical double-layer capacitance tests of different samples. c) The Tafel plots are derived from the ORR polarization curves. d) EIS Nyquist plots under alkaline conditions, and e) the potentiostat polarization curve of the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel electrocatalyst.

reduction peak at ≈0.6 versus RHE has been observed for the CV curve of the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogels under the N2 atmosphere, whereas this peak is not mentioned in the CV curve of the commercial Pt/C. This small peak (Figure S9d, Supporting Information) can be ascribed to the reduction of oxidizing species on the catalyst surface, such as CuO/PdO to metallic Cu and Pd, which is consistent with our results in the previously published work.[\[19\]](#page-12-0) Therefore, the oxidized Pd3CuFe0.5 model is involved in revealing the ORR mechanism via the density functional theory (DFT) afterward, which has also been verified by the XPS results. In particular, the electrochemical versatility, such as the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) performance, of the resulting electrocatalysts is attractive to researchers for their further commercialization. It can be seen that the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows a small HER overpotential of 0.1 V at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is comparable to that of the commercial Pt/C (Figure S9e, Supporting Information). Furthermore, as for the EOR activity test, all five catalysts exhibit two peaks in the forward and reverse scans, which can be attributed to the oxidation of ethanol and the further oxidation of intermediates produced during the forward scan.[\[39\]](#page-12-0) The forward current density and the ratio of forward/reverse current density are two important factors representing the EOR performance.[\[40\]](#page-12-0) The optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel has the lowest onset potential for EOR among the five catalysts, with a large forward current density of 168.4 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at an applied potential of 0.041 V versus Ag/AgCl, while the pristine Pd3Cu shows a much smaller current density of 49.2 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S9f, Supporting Information). It is well known that a lower *I*f/*I*<sup>b</sup> value indicates that intermediates produced during the oxidation

process may deteriorate the EOR activity. In contrast, the optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows a larger *I*f/*I*<sup>b</sup> value of 2.57 than that of the pristine Pd3Cu aerogel (*I*f/*I*<sup>b</sup> = 1.72), which is even better than that of the Au-Pd Alloy Nanowire in the previously published work, showing its rather excellent EOR activity besides the ORR and HER performance.[\[41\]](#page-12-0)

In addition to the conventional electrochemical tests of standard three-electrode systems, the Zn–air batteries (ZABs) are assembled with the as-prepared ternary alloy aerogel electrode to further investigate its electrocatalytic performance for practical applications. The OER property of the resulting ternary aerogel is evaluated in Figure S10a (Supporting Information), which shows a low overpotential of 365 mV based on the three parallel tests, showing its potential application in ZABs. The ZABs are equipped with 6 m KOH and 0.2 m Zn(CH3COO)2 as an electrolyte, and the zinc flakes and Pd3CuFe0.5 supported carbon paper (1 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2) are used as anode and an air cathode. In addition, a counterpart of 20% Pt/C+RuO2 is assembled as a comparison for the fuel cell performance. The open-circuit voltage of the Pd3CuFe0.5-based cell remains stable at 1.44 V for 600 s, which is close to the theoretical open-circuit voltage of 1.65 V for zinc-air cells (**Figure 7**[b\)](#page-8-0). Figure [7c](#page-8-0) shows the discharge potential curves of primary ZABs with an air cathode made of Pd3CuFe0.5 at different applied current densities. The output stable voltages of the primary ZABs are 1.32, 1.20, and 1.07 V at 1, 5, and 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. In addition, Figure [5d](#page-6-0) shows the polarization and power density curves of the ZABs, where the maximum power density of the ZABs with a Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel as the air cathode is 93.2 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is higher than that in the reported work, indicating that it is a promising candidate for a

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) Schematic diagram of a zinc-air battery b) Open circuit plots, and c) discharge curves at different current densities of Pd3CuFe0.5. d) Polarization and power density curves of the Zn–air batteries of the Pd3CuFe0.5. e) Performance of the battery cycling at the current density to be 5 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> within an interval of 20 min (discharging and charging for 10 min, respectively, within each cycle).

rechargeable ZABs.[\[42\]](#page-12-0) Long-term electrochemical stability is another key issue for the practical application of ZABs. The charge and discharge plateau of the Pt/C+RuO2 air cathode-based ZAB changes dramatically after 20 h of operation, indicating the poor stability of the Pt/C+RuO2 electrocatalyst (Figure 7e). On the other hand, we have further tested the cycling stability of ZABs based on Pd3CuFe0.5 air cathodes at a charge/discharge current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for ≈120 h, which shows that the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel electrocatalyst displays excellent charging/discharging cycling capability.[\[43\]](#page-12-0) In addition, we have also carried out the anti-poisoning property of CH3OH for the resulting ternary aerogel, and the results show that when the CH3OH concentration is below 0.10 mol/L, the ORR activity keeps well with no oxidation peak of CH3OH, combining with no loss of the half-wave potential and limiting current density, and when the CH3OH concentration is *<*0.2 mol L<sup>−</sup>1, the ORR activity is slightly decreased due to the methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) under the applied potential range (Figure S10b, Supporting Information). However, the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel catalyst still presents a much higher tolerance to CH3OH due to its much lower activity for MOR, as compared with that of the commercial Pt/C with data copied from reference, indicating its potential applications in the fields of fuel cells.[\[44\]](#page-12-0)

DFT calculations are carried out to further reveal the origins of the unprecedented catalytic property of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel. The ORR process proceeds through four consecutive proton-electron coupling transfer elementary steps with \*OOH, \*O, and \*OH as the intermediates, while the oxygen adsorption is the precondition for the following four steps.[\[45\]](#page-12-0) Herein, we have constructed seven structures based on EDS spectra results for revealing the real active sites during the ORR process, and the geometry-optimized configurations of the \*OOH, \*O, and \*OH for different structures have been also displayed (Figures S11–S17, Supporting Information). The Gibbs free energy curves of the four elementary steps for different structures via the CHE method have been illustrated (**Figure 8**[a,b\)](#page-9-0), and the specific Gibbs free energy data have been shown in **Table [2](#page-9-0)**. It is well acknowledged that the rate-determining step for the ORR processes is located at the step with the smallest downhill energy among the four elementary steps. Therefore, it is found (Figure [8a](#page-9-0) and Table [2\)](#page-9-0) that for the pristine Pd3CuFe0.5-site 1 and Pd3CuFe0.5-site 2, the rate-determining steps are △G3 with the transformation from \*O to the \*OH, while the rate-determining step for the pristine Pd3CuFe0.5-site3 model comes from the△G4 with the transformation from \*OH to O2 molecule. The theoretical potentials for the three active sites are 0.904, 0.643, and 0.827 V, respectively, and thus the active site-2 can be the most probable active site for the ORR process, however, the theoretical over potential is a bit large, which does not agree well with the LSV curves in Figure S1c (Supporting Information). In addition, the large overpotential of site-2 comes from the intensively strong binding strength of the \*O intermediate on the catalyst surface, which deteriorates the ORR activity. As inspired by the LSV curve and XPS results, we have also constructed the Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel models with surface oxidation, which have been named Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 4–7. As is displayed in Figure [8a,](#page-9-0) the Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 4 structure shows a rate-determining step (△G4 = −0.622 eV) of the transformation of \*OH to O2 molecule, and the theoretical overpotential is decreased as compared with the three pristine models. It is worth mentioning that the Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 7 presents the smallest overpotential of 0.5 V among all the structures, showing that the real active site can be a hollow site of 2 Pd atoms and 1 Cu atom around the oxidized O atom (Figure [8\)](#page-9-0). The adsorption Gibbs free energy of the O2 molecule on the catalyst surface (Figure [8b\)](#page-9-0) is calculated as −0.87 eV, which further confirms that O2 is easy to be adsorbed and activated, followed by the four elementary steps. Figure [8b](#page-9-0) exhibits the Gibbs free energy changes of the four ORR elementary steps with the applied potential *U* = 1.23 V, and it is found that the Pd3CuFe0.5-site7

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 8.** DFT calculations for the Gibbs free energy of the four ORR elementary steps for different structures at a) *U* = 0 V and b) *U* = 1.23 V. c) PDOS of Cu, Pd, Fe, and d) \*OH in the Pd3CuFe0.5O-site7 with \*OH as the intermediate. e) The d-band center calculations of the pristine Pd3CuFe0.5 before and after oxidation, where the Fermi level is shifted to zero. f) The electron density difference of the optimized \*OH adsorbed on the Pd3CuFe0.5O-site7 model, where green and yellow indicate accumulation and depletion of electrons, respectively.

**Table 2.** Gibbs free energy calculations of the elementary steps of the seven models with bold fonts showing the rate-determining step.

| Samples            |       |       | △GOH* △GO* △GOOH* | △G1 | △G2 | △G3                         | △G4 |
|--------------------|-------|-------|-------------------|-----|-----|-----------------------------|-----|
| Pd3CuFe0.5-Site 1  | 1.154 | 1.480 | 4.260             |     |     | −0.659 −2.780 −0.326 −1.154 |     |
| Pd3CuFe0.5-Site 2  | 0.861 | 1.449 | 4.053             |     |     | −0.866 −2.603 −0.587 −0.861 |     |
| Pd3CuFe0.5-Site 3  | 0.404 | 0.817 | 3.746             |     |     | −1.173 −2.928 −0.413 −0.403 |     |
| Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 4 | 0.622 | 0.942 | 3.857             |     |     | −1.062 −2.915 −0.320 −0.622 |     |
| Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 5 | 0.763 | 1.204 | 3.961             |     |     | −0.958 −2.756 −0.441 −0.764 |     |
| Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 6 | 0.930 | 1.460 | 4.099             |     |     | −0.821 −2.638 −0.530 −0.930 |     |
| Pd3CuFe0.5O-Site 7 | 0.840 | 1.569 | 3.978             |     |     | −0.942 −2.408 −0.730 −0.840 |     |

shows the smallest uphill energy step among the seven models. The Gibbs free energy (△*G*OOH and △*G*OH) of different intermediates of the seven structures presents the typical linear relationship due to the scaling relations (Figure S18b, Supporting Information). Apart from the Gibbs free energy curves for the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel catalyst with oxidation, the electronic structures calculations are further performed based on the optimized Pd3CuFe0.5- site7 with \*OH intermediate. It can be seen that the d orbitals from the Pd and Cu contribute to the majority to the top of the valance band, which has strong hybridization with the p orbitals of \*OH intermediate (Figure 8c,d). The oxidized O has also indicated some hybridization with the Pd and Cu atoms of the electrocatalyst. In addition, Norskov.[\[46\]](#page-12-0) etc. has proposed that the d-band center of the reactive sites has a great impact on the ORR activity by adjusting the binding strength of the intermediates, such as the \*OH, \*O, and \*OOH. Therefore, the d-band center of the active sites of the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 site2 and Pd3CuFe0.5O-site7 models have been calculated using the DFT technique (Figure 8e). As revealed by Figure 8e, the dband center of the active sites has been negatively shifted from −2.07 to −2.17 eV, therefore, the anti-bonding of the adsorbate shifts down with more electrons flowing into the anti-bonding orbital, indicating that the binding strength of the intermediate has been decreased. This fact remains consistent with the too-strong \*O binding strength of the pristine Pd3CuFe0.5-site2, and the relatively weaker binding strength on the Pd3CuFe0.5O-site7 with oxidation, which also agrees well with the Sabatier principle.[\[47,48\]](#page-12-0) Interestingly, the electron density difference is further illustrated to demonstrate the effect of the \*OH on the resulting Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel with oxidation (Figure 8f). The electrons tend to transfer from the metal atoms to the adjacent \*OH, showing the interactions between the intermediate and catalyst surface, and the oxidized O atom can stabilize the H atom of the \*OH, which accelerates the ORR activity.

### **3. Conclusion**

Herein, a novel Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel ORR electrocatalyst is prepared by self-assembly and lyophilization techniques using a mild reducing agent. The resulting aerogel electrocatalyst displays a large BET-specific surface area of 75.19 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with a 3D pore network composed of nanoparticles and nanopores. The optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 aerogel shows excellent ORR performance with a large half-wave potential of 0.92 V versus RHE, a large limiting current density of 7.6 mA cm $^{-2}$ , and excellent electrocatalytic stability during the potentiostat polarization test. In addition, the Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub> aerogel electrocatalyst exhibits excellent cycling performance with a homemade fuel cells test, and the resulting alloy aerogel also displays excellent HER and EOR activity. Furthermore, the DFT calculations show that the Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub> aerogel with surface oxidation leads to a downward shift of the d-band center of the active site, energetically optimizing the adsorption binding strength of the \*O intermediates, therefore improving the ORR activity. The observations made and chemical principles revealed in this effort indicate that a general approach exists for materials design and electronic structure modulation and shows a new class of metal aerogel-based electrocatalysts with greatly enhanced performance for fuel cells.

# 4. Experimental Section

Chemicals: Sodium carbonate ( $Na_2CO_3$ , 99.8%) was purchased from Shanghai Ling-Feng Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. Palladium chloride ( $PdCl_2$ , 98%) was supplied by the Jiangsu Yi-Kang biological medicine research and Development Co. Ltd. Copper (II) Chloride Dihydrate ( $CuCl_2 \cdot 2H_2O$ , 99.8%), Ferric (III) chloride hexahydrate ( $FeCl_3 \cdot 6H_2O$ , 99.8%), and Glyoxalic acid monohydrate ( $CHOCOOH \cdot H_2O$ , 99.8%) were purchased from Shanghai McLean biochemical technology Co. Ltd. The commercial Pt/C catalyst with 20 wt.% Pt loading was received from Strem Chemicals. All chemicals were used as received without further purification.

Preparation of Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub> Alloy Aerogel: The resulting alloy aerogel electrocatalysts, including the pristine Pd<sub>3</sub>Cu, Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.3</sub>, Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub>, and Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>1.0</sub> samples, were prepared by the self-assembly, followed by the freezing drying technique. In a typical synthesis of the Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub> aerogel, Na<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub> (0.2968 g) and glycolic acid monohydrate (0.0368 g) were dissolved in 10 mL of water forming a homogeneous solution, after which 10 mL aqueous solution containing PdCl<sub>2</sub> (3 mm) and CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O (1 mм) and FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (0.5 mм) was injected into the solution. The mixture was further stirred and reacted for 10 min under 60 °C until the solution turned into a black suspension. Subsequently, the suspension was left in an oven at 50 °C for gelation, and the wet gel was further aged for 3 d to strengthen the wet gel skeleton. During the aging process, the resulting wet gels were washed with deionized water to remove the impurities within the pore structures three times each day. The formed gels were then dried by freeze-drying process, thus to afford the resulting Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub> trimetallic alloy aerogel. The other controlling aerogel electrocatalysts were obtained via similar procedures with varying Fe/Pd molar ratios via adjusting the concentrations of FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, while the pristine Pd<sub>3</sub>Cu aerogel contains

Characterizations: The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the resulting Pd<sub>3</sub>CuFe<sub>0.5</sub> aerogel were tested by the powder X-ray diffractometry (Bruker D2 Phaser) with Cu K $\alpha$  ( $\lambda$  = 0.15406 nm) as radiation in the 2 $\theta$  range of 10 to 80°, with the operating voltage and current at 40 kV and 40 mA, and the scanning rate was set as 10 °/min. The surface chemical group and valence state analysis of the resulting sample were carried out by X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) analyzer (Thermo Scientific K-Alpha) with an Al K lpha radiator, by setting C 1s at 284.8 eV. The microstructures and morphologies of the samples were tested by the Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) method using a ZEISS Sigma 300 field emission scanning electron microscope. The N<sub>2</sub> adsorption/desorption isotherms were measured at 77 K with a Micromeritics ASAP2020 system. Vacuum degassing was done before the N2 adsorption/desorption test and the pretreatment condition is 120 °C with a dwelling time of 6 h. The microstructures and crystalline structures of the resulting aerogel were further tested using transmission electron microscopy (FEI TalosF200x), and the EDS spectra were also obtained from this equipment. The TEM sample was first dissolved in ethanol, forming a homogeneous solution, followed by ultrasonic dispersion for 5 min. 0.04-0.06 mL solution was then dropped on the copper grid for further measurement on the TEM equipment. The ICP-OES test was developed on the Thermo Fisher iCAP PRO equipment to investigate the metal contents of the ternary aerogel.

Electrochemical Measurements: All of the electrochemical measurement facility was CS2350 electrochemical analyzer. The electrocatalytic tests were evaluated by a standard three-electrode system. The glassy carbon electrode, the Ag/AgCl electrode with saturated KCl aqueous solution, and a platinum foil were used as the working electrode, the reference electrode, and the counter electrode, respectively. For the preparation of the working electrode, 4.0 mg catalyst was dispersed in 1 mL ethanol containing 40 µL of 5 wt. % Nafion solution to form a catalyst ink under sonication for 1 h. The ink (30  $\mu$ L) was then transferred to the electrode and left to evaporate at ambient temperature. The ORR polarization curves were performed in various electrolyte solutions with different pH values (0.1 M KOH, 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub>, and 0.1 M Na<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> aqueous solution) at room temperature. The catalyst ink was coated onto the rotating disk electrode (RDE, diameter 5 mm) electrode with a loading of 0.6 mg·cm<sup>-2</sup> for all the resulting samples, as well as the commercial Pt/C. The cyclic voltammetry tests (CVs) were recorded before the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves between -0.1 and 1.2 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using a scanning rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Polarization curves for all the catalysts were recorded in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte solution between 0.2 and 1.15 V versus RHE at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with different rotation speeds from 100 to 2500 rpm. The background current was measured and deducted with the same potential range under an N2-saturated solution. For all measurements, the potentials were converted to versus RHE according to the following equations. In 0.1  $\rm M$  HClO $_4,\,E_{\rm RHE}=E_{\rm Ag/AgCl}$  + 0.256 V; in 0.1 M Na<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>,  $E_{RHE} = E_{Ag/AgCl} + 0.611 \text{ V}$ ; in 0.1 M KOH,  $E_{RHE} = E_{Ag/AgCl}$ + 0.965 V.

The RDE test was performed under different rotating speeds, and the electron transfer number was evaluated via the Koutecky–Levich equation:  $[^{49}]$ 

$$\frac{1}{J} = \frac{1}{J_1} + \frac{1}{J_K} \tag{1}$$

$$J_L = 0.2nFD^{\frac{2}{3}}v^{-\frac{1}{6}}\omega^{\frac{1}{2}}C \tag{2}$$

Where J represents the measured current density, while  $J_k$  and  $J_L$  are the kinetic and limiting current density,  $\omega$  is the disc rotation angular velocity of the disk, n represents the calculated electron transfer number in ORR, and F is the Faraday constant ( $F=96485~\rm C\cdot mol^{-1}$ ), C is the bulk concentration for  $O_2~(1.2\times 10^{-6}~\rm mol\cdot cm^{-3})$  dissolved in 0.1 m KOH solution, D is the diffusivity of  $O_2~(1.9\times 10^{-5}~\rm cm^2\cdot s^{-1})$  and  $\nu$  is the kinematic viscosity of electrolyte (0.01 cm²·s $^{-1}$ ). The accelerated electrocatalytic stability of the resulting aerogel sample was performed by CV cycling between 1.0 and 0.6 V versus RHE for 3000 cycles under  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 m KOH. To investigate the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of the resulting aerogel samples under 0.1 m KOH, the CV curves were measured in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 m KOH with varying scanning rates of 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60 mV s $^{-1}$  between 1.04 and 1.16 V versus RHE. The capacitive current measured at 1.10 V versus RHE was plotted as a function of the scan rate.

For the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) measurements, the disk electrode was scanned at a rate of 10 mV·s<sup>-1</sup> in an O<sub>2</sub> saturated electrolyte solution between 0.2 and 1.15 V versus RHE, therefore, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub>O may be both produced under this applied potential since the standard electrode potential of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>/O<sub>2</sub> and H<sub>2</sub>O/O<sub>2</sub> are 0.68 and 1.23 V, respectively. The disk electrode was scanned in the LSV polarization potential range at a rate of 10 mV·s<sup>-1</sup>. The ring potential was fixed at 1.25 V versus RHE, leading to the oxidation of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, which may be formed during the ORR process, therefore, based on the disk current, ring current, and the current collection efficiency of the Pt ring, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>% and electron transfer number can be well obtained. The catalyst ink was coated onto the RRDE electrode with a loading of 600 µg·cm<sup>-2</sup> for all samples. The percentage

<span id="page-11-0"></span>of H2O2 intermediate production (%H2O2) and electron transfer number (*n*) were determined based on the following equations:

$$\%H_2O_2 = \frac{200I_r}{NI_d + I_r} \tag{3}$$

$$n = \frac{4NI_d}{NI_d + I_r} \tag{4}$$

where *I*<sup>d</sup> and *I*<sup>r</sup> represent the disk and ring current, respectively. *N* represents the current collection efficiency of the used Pt ring, and it was 0.414 in this study.

The HER performance was evaluated by LSV curves in 0.5 m H2SO4 aqueous solution. The catalyst ink was coated onto the RDE electrode with a loading of 600·μg cm−<sup>2</sup> for all samples with a scanning rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and the applied potential in the range of 0–−0.4 V versus RHE.

The EOR activity was performed under N2 saturated 1.0 m KOH aqueous solution containing 1.0 m ethanol. The catalyst ink was dipped onto the glass carbon electrode with a loading density of 600 μg·cm−<sup>2</sup> for all samples. The CV curves were recorded between −0.7 and 0.4 V versus Ag/AgCl with a scanning rate of 50 mV·s<sup>−</sup>1.

*Theoretical Calculations*: All spin unrestricted density functional theory (DFT) calculations including the structural optimizations and electronic structures in this study were carried out using the Dmol3 package. The electronic exchange-correlation was described by generalized gradient approximation with the Perdew, Burke, and Ernzernhof functional (GGA-PBE), and the double-numerical basis set (DNP) was involved in this work. The effective core potential model was adopted to evaluate the metal relativistic effect for the core treatment, and smearing of 0.005 Ha was used for the orbital fractional occupation. Seven models were considered in this study to reveal the real active sites for the greatly enhanced ORR activity. The optimal Pd3CuFe0.5 model was constructed by the following method. The pristine optimized Pd bulk model contains four Pd atoms, where one Pd atom was replaced by one Cu atom, followed by the construction of the (111) crystalline plane with three layers. A vacuum region of 15 Å thick was performed in the direction vertical to the model layer to eliminate the interaction between each slab and its images. A 2 × 2 × 1 supercell was further constructed with a lattice parameter of *a* = *b* = 11.00 Å, and then one Cu atom was replaced by the Fe atom, therefore obtaining the final Pd3CuFe0.5 model. The Brillouin zone was sampled with Monkhorst-pack 4 × 4 × 1 *k*-point mesh for different models. During the DFT geometry optimization calculations, the bottom layer was fixed while the top two layers were fully allowed to relax to the ground state. Zero-point energy correction has been included in all the reported energies. In addition, the geometry convergence tolerance was set to be 2.0 × 10−<sup>3</sup> Hartree/Å, 1.0 × 10−<sup>5</sup> Hartree, and 5.0 × 10−<sup>3</sup> Å for maximum force, energy, and displacement, respectively. A 4 × 4 × 1 k-points mesh was also involved in electronic structure calculations.

The computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model was developed with Gibbs free energy calculations of each elementary step. In addition, zero point energy (ZPE) and entropy values of the adsorbed intermediates were obtained by the frequency calculation. The temperature of 298.15 K was used during all the calculations. The free energy of the O2 molecule was calculated by GO2 = 2GH2O-2GH2+4.92 based on the standard redox potential of H2O/O2. The ORR process can be composed of four elementary steps as follows:

$$* +O_2(g) + 4H^+ + 4e^- \rightarrow *OOH + 3H^+ + 3e^-$$
 (5)

$$* OOH + 3H^{+} + 3e^{-} \rightarrow * O + 2H^{+} + 2e^{-} + H_{2}O$$
 (6)

$$* O + 2H^{+} + 2e^{-} + H_{2}O \rightarrow * OH + H^{+} + e^{-} + H_{2}O$$
 (7)

$$* OH + H^{+} + e^{-} + H_{2}O \rightarrow * + 2H_{2}O$$
 (8)

Where the \* indicates the active site and \*X represents the intermediates during the ORR process. The adsorption free energy of the reaction intermediates was obtained via the following equations:

$$\Delta G_{*O_2} = G_{*O_2} - G_* + 2G_{H_2} - 2G_{H_2O} - 4.92 \tag{9}$$

$$\Delta G_{*OOH} = G_{*OOH} - G_* + 1.5G_{H_2} - 2G_{H_2O}$$
 (10)

$$\Delta G_{*OH} = G_{*OH} - G_* + 0.5G_{H_2} - G_{H_2O}$$
 (11)

$$\Delta G_{*O} = G_{*O} - G_* + G_{H_2} - G_{H_2O} \tag{12}$$

Where G\*X represents the Gibbs free energy of the reaction intermediates, while G\* is the pristine catalyst surface. In addition, the Gibbs free energy of each step can be expressed as follows:

$$\Delta G = \Delta E + \Delta Z P E - T \Delta S + \Delta G_U + p H * K_B T \ln 10$$
 (13)

Where △*E*, △*ZPE*, and △*S* are the reaction energy, the change of zero point energy, and entropy between two steps. △Gu = eU, where *U* is the applied potential versus RHE and *e* is the number of the transferred electrons. *K*<sup>B</sup> is the Boltzmann constant, and it is worth mentioning that it takes pH 0 in the calculations for ORR under acid conditions.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52202367), and the Jiangsu Postgraduate Research and Practice Innovation Program (KYCX23\_1427). Any opinions, findings, conclusions, or recommendations expressed in this paper are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of these programs.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

aerogel, alloy, electrocatalyst, oxygen reduction reaction, porous structure

Received: August 21, 2023 Revised: November 6, 2023 16136829, 2024, 19, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202307243 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Published online: December 6, 2023

<sup>[1]</sup> S. L. D. Nicole, Y. Li, W. Xie, G. Wang, J.-M. Lee, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2206844.

<sup>[2]</sup> W. Chen, X. Zhu, W. Wei, H. Chen, T. Dong, R. Wang, M. Liu, K. Ostrikov, P. Peng, S.-Q. Zang, *Small* **2023**, 2304294.

- <span id="page-12-0"></span>[3] R. He, L. Yang, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, S. Lee, T. Zhang, L. Li, Z. Liang, J. Chen, J. Li, A. Ostovari Moghaddam, J. Llorca, M. Ibanez, J. Arbiol, Y. Xu, A. Cabot, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *58*, 287.
- [4] N. Zion, D. A. Cullen, P. Zelenay, L. Elbaz, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 2483.
- [5] J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935.
- [6] C.-J. Li, G.-C. Shan, C.-X. Guo, R.-G. Ma, *Rare Met.* **2023**, *42*, 1778.
- [7] C. Santoro, P. Bollella, B. Erable, P. Atanassov, D. Pant, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 473.
- [8] V.-H. Do, J.-M. Lee, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 17847.
- [9] J. A. Zamora Zeledón, G. T. K. K. Gunasooriya, G. A. Kamat, M. E. Kreider, M. Ben-Naim, M. A. Hubert, J. E. Avilés Acosta, J. K. Nørskov, M. B. Stevens, T. F. Jaramillo, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 1611.
- [10] R. He, L. Yang, Y. Zhang, D. Jiang, S. Lee, S. Horta, Z. Liang, X. Lu, A. Ostovari Moghaddam, J. Li, M. Ibanez, Y. Xu, Y. Zhou, A. Cabot, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, 2303719.
- [11] H. Zhang, X. Li, Y. Wang, K. Deng, H. Yu, Y. Xu, H. Wang, Z. Wang, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *338*, 123006.
- [12] Y. Li, C.-K. Peng, H. Hu, S.-Y. Chen, J.-H. Choi, Y.-G. Lin, J.-M. Lee, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1143.
- [13] L. Peles-Strahl, N. Zion, O. Lori, N. Levy, G. Bar, A. Dahan, L. Elbaz, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100163.
- [14] M. Wang, Y. Li, J. Fang, C. J. Villa, Y. Xu, S. Hao, J. Li, Y. Liu, C. Wolverton, X. Chen, V. P. Dravid, Y. Lai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1902736.
- [15] Y. Zheng, J. Yang, X. Lu, H. Wang, A. A. Dubale, Y. Li, Z. Jin, D. Lou, N. K. Sethi, Y. Ye, J. Zhou, Y. Sun, Z. Zheng, W. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2002276.
- [16] R. Du, W. Jin, R. Hübner, L. Zhou, Y. Hu, A. Eychmüller, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903857.
- [17] G. Anandhababu, Y. Huang, D. D. Babu, M. Wu, Y. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1706120.
- [18] Y. Hermans, A. Klein, H. P. Sarker, M. N. Huda, H. Junge, T. Toupance, W. Jaegermann, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910432.
- [19] X. Wu, C. Ni, J. Man, X. Shen, S. Cui, X. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *454*, 140293.
- [20] G. Han, M. Li, H. Liu, W. Zhang, L. He, F. Tian, Y. Liu, Y. Yu, W. Yang, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202943.
- [21] L. Lu, X. Sun, J. Ma, D. Yang, H. Wu, B. Zhang, J. Zhang, B. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *130*, 14345.
- [22] Y. Gu, S. Chen, J. Ren, Y. A. Jia, C. Chen, S. Komarneni, D. Yang, X. Yao, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 245.
- [23] Q. Shi, C. Zhu, H. Zhong, D. Su, N. Li, M. H. Engelhard, H. Xia, Q. Zhang, S. Feng, S. P. Beckman, D. Du, Y. Lin, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, 2038.
- [24] S. Naskar, A. Freytag, J. Deutsch, N. Wendt, P. Behrens, A. Köckritz, N. C. Bigall, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 9208.
- [25] C. Zhu, Q. Shi, S. Fu, J. Song, H. Xia, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 8779.

- [26] W. Wang, Z. Wang, J. Wang, C.-J. Zhong, C.-J. Liu, *Adv. Sci.* **2017**, *4*, 1600486.
- [27] S. Chen, J. Zhao, H. Su, H. Li, H. Wang, Z. Hu, J. Bao, J. Zeng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 496.
- [28] X. Tian, X. Zhao, Y.-Q. Su, L. Wang, H. Wang, D. Dang, B. Chi, H. Liu, E. J. M. Hensen, X. W. Lou, B. Y. Xia, *Science* **2019**, *366*, 850.
- [29] H. Xie, S. Chen, J. Liang, T. Wang, Z. Hou, H.-L. Wang, G. Chai, Q. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater* **2021**, *31*, 2100883.
- [30] S. Yan, M. Zhong, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 132955.
- [31] M. Abdinejad, C. Ferrag, M. N. Hossain, M. Noroozifar, K. Kerman, H. B. Kraatz, *J. Mater Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 12870.
- [32] B. Cai, R. Hübner, K. Sasaki, Y. Zhang, D. Su, C. Ziegler, M. B. Vukmirovic, B. Rellinghaus, R. R. Adzic, A. Eychmüller, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 2963.
- [33] J. A. Zamora Zeledón, M. B. Stevens, G. T. K. K. Gunasooriya, A. Gallo, A. T. Landers, M. E. Kreider, C. Hahn, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 620.
- [34] Y. Wang, Y. Yang, S. Jia, X. Wang, K. Lyu, Y. Peng, H. Zheng, X. Wei, H. Ren, L. Xiao, J. Wang, D. A. Muller, H. D. Abruña, B. J. Hwang, J. Lu, L. Zhuang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1506.
- [35] K. Kodama, T. Nagai, A. Kuwaki, R. Jinnouchi, Y. Morimoto, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2021**, *16*, 140.
- [36] H. Xia, X. Zheng, J. Li, L. Wang, Y. Xue, C. Peng, Y. Han, Y. Wang, S. Guo, J. Wang, E. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7741.
- [37] S. C. Chung, J. R. Cheng, S. D. Chiou, H. C. Shih, *Corros. Sci.* **2000**, *42*, 1249.
- [38] S. Emin, C. Altinkaya, A. Semerci, H. Okuyucu, A. Yildiz, P. Stefanov, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2018**, *236*, 147.
- [39] R. Du, J.-O. Joswig, R. Hübner, L. Zhou, W. Wei, Y. Hu, A. Eychmüller, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *132*, 8370.
- [40] X. Fan, S. Zerebecki, R. Du, R. Hübner, G. Marzum, G. Jiang, Y. Hu, S. Barcikowki, S. Reichenberger, A. Eychmüller, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *132*, 5755.
- [41] J. Wang, P. Zhang, Y. Xiahou, D. Wang, H. Xia, H. Möhwald, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 602.
- [42] C. Fan, X. Wang, X. Wu, Y. Chen, Z. Wang, M. Li, D. Sun, Y. Tang, G. Fu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2203244.
- [43] S. Xie, J. Lin, S. Wang, D. Xie, P. Liu, G. Tan, M. Zhang, D. Ruan, C. Zhen, F. Cheng, *J. Power. Sources* **2020**, *457*, 228038.
- [44] Y. Zhang, B. Huang, G. Luo, T. Sun, Y. Feng, Y. Wang, Y. Ma, Q. Shao, Y. Li, *Z. Zhou, X. Huang, Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eaba9731.
- [45] X. Shen, T. Nagai, F. Yang, L. Q. Zhou, Y. Pan, L. Yao, D. Wu, Y.-S. Liu, J. Feng, J. Guo, H. Jia, Z. Peng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 9463.
- [46] B. Hammer, J. K. Norskov, *Nature* **1995**, *376*, 238.
- [47] A. Mazheika, Y.-G. Wang, R. Valero, F. Viñes, F. Illas, L. M. Ghiringhelli, S. V. Levchenko, M. Scheffler, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 419.
- [48] L. Zhu, H. Lin, Y. Li, F. Liao, Y. Lifshitz, M. Sheng, S.-T. Lee, M. Shao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12272.
- [49] M. Baghalha, M. Kamal-Ahmadi, *Corros. Sci.* **2011**, *53*, 4241.