---
source: Wu 等 - 2023 - Ammonia Tolerance of Atomically Dispersed Single Metal Site Catalysts Mechanistic Understanding and.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.384s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:35:04.203228Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

# **Ammonia Tolerance of Atomically Dispersed Single Metal Site Catalysts: Mechanistic Understanding and High-Performance Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysis**

*Zirui Wu, Yongying Wang, Yiming Cao, Bing Wang, Zhongti Sun, Juan Yang, and Yi Li\**

**The anion-exchange membrane direct ammonia fuel cell, as a carbon-free fuel cell type, has recently received increasing attention albeit suffering from high cost of using the platinum-group metal oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalysts. To pave the development of this promising power source, the atomically dispersed transition metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) materials with low cost and high ORR performance have allured to investigate their ammonia tolerance during the ORR. Herein, it is initially deconvoluted how compositional and structural elements of FeN4 sites modulate catalyst's performance. Furthermore, ORR catalytic activities of the M-N-C (M = Fe, Co or Mn) and Pt/C catalysts are investigated in ammonia-containing electrolytes, showing that M-N-C catalysts have better ammonia tolerance than Pt/C. Among others, the Fe-N-C exhibits the best ammonia tolerance with only 4 mV negative shifts of half-wave potential, 2.7% decrease of current, and negligibly irreversible activity loss. The superior ammonia tolerance of MN4 sites to Pt (111) surface is further confirmed by density functional theory calculations. The adsorption capacity of MN4 for O2 is higher than NH3 and the bonding force between MN4 and O2 is stronger than NH3, whereas opposite adsorption capacity and bonding force trends are observed on Pt (111) surface.**

**1. Introduction**

Green ammonia, synthesized from air, water, and renewable energy, is a carbon-free energy carrier,[1] which can be supplied to hydroxide-exchange membrane direct ammonia fuel cells (DAFCs) to generate green electricity and produce only nitrogen and water.[2] A significant performance improvement

Z. Wu, Y. Wang, Y. Cao, Z. Sun, J. Yang, Y. Li School of Materials Science and Engineering Jiangsu University Zhenjiang 212013, P. R. China E-mail: liyi5482@ujs.edu.cn B. Wang, Y. Li National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures School of Physics Nanjing University Nanjing 210093, P. R. China B. Wang, Y. Li

Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Nano Technology

Nanjing University Nanjing 210093, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202301084.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202301084**

of DAFCs has been witnessed in the past several years,[2b,c,3] thanks to the development of both hydroxide exchange membranes[4] and anodic ammonia oxidation reaction (AOR) catalysts.[2c,5] The cathode of a DAFC occurs on an oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), a four-electron reaction process, which is also needing to pay substantial attention, because ammonia and its oxidation intermediates could inevitably permeate from the anode to the cathode through the anion exchange membrane.[6] Moreover, the cathodic ORR and anodic AOR may simultaneously occur on catalyst surface due to a same operating potential window.[6a] This would lead to parasitic current generation, which would reduce fuel's utilization and degrade the overall performance of DAFCs.[3] Therefore, exploiting ammonia-tolerated ORR catalysts for the DAFCs is in high demand for further boosting their device performance.

Presently, platinum-group-metal (PGM) materials are the benchmark catalysts for

the ORR, but suffering from critical issues of high cost, insufficient durability, and inferior ammonia/impurity tolerance, which greatly impede their large-scale applications for fuel cells.[2a,7] In recent years, the atomically dispersed M–N–C (M = Fe, Co or Mn) materials with low cost and earth-abundant nature[8] have emerged as a new class of promising ORR catalysts, showing encouraging activity and stability in alkaline media.[9] Accordingly, an interesting topic can be aroused to be "how about the ammonia tolerance between M–N–C and PGM materials".

To answer this question, the study and understanding of ammonia adsorption effect on MN4 and Pt (111) active sites and their ammonia tolerance is of great significance. Because the fundamental understanding of this topic is meaningful in guiding the rational design of advanced M-N-C materials for DAFC applications. However, the current M–N–C materials are generally synthesized from the direct co-pyrolysis of metal, nitrogen, and carbon sources, which often lead to a poor control of the carbon morphology, nitrogen doping, and the formation of MN4 sites.[10] At the same time, either the insufficient nitrogen dopants or the excessive transition metal content could result in the formation of inactive nanoclusters or even nanoparticles in catalyst materials, which paves a great challenge to maximize the ORR performance of the atomically dispersed M–N–C materials.[11]

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

In order to avoid the complexity of nitrogen doping and the formation of MN4 sites (e.g., FeN4), we use a ZIF-8-derived nitrogen-doped carbon as a host, which can divide the nitrogen doping and MN4 site formation separately. This strategy greatly improves the control of overall catalyst morphology and structure, which is significant for their potential scale up. It was reported that tuning the carbon environment surrounding MN4 active sites can govern their kinetic activity.[12] Particularly, small carbon planes with local defects facilitate O–O bond breaking, thus enhancing ORR activity. Accordingly, further carbon structure tuning with NH4Cl treatment was applied in this work to produce abundant defects in the carbon lattice, which is thermodynamically and kinetically more favorable for the ORR, resulting in an increase of catalyst's intrinsic activity. The asprepared M–N–C materials were then further measured in an ammonia-containing alkaline electrolyte, which exhibited better ammonia tolerance than Pt/C. Their superior ammonia tolerance was also validated by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Theoretical results further demonstrate that the adsorption energy of O2 molecules is higher than NH3 molecules on MN4 sites, while an opposite adsorption trend is observed on Pt (111) surface. Electronic structure results show that the MN4 active sites bonding with O2 molecules is stronger than its bonding with NH3 molecules, which is different from that of Pt (111). This indicates that even though in an NH3 presence environment, the MN4 sites are still more favorable for the ORR process in relative to Pt (111).

#### **2. Result and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Catalyst Synthesis and Structures**

**Figure 1**a shows the proposed single Fe site formation scheme in the ZIF-NC-*x*Fe-*y*N materials, where *x* represents the adsorption concentration of Fe ions (e.g., 0.5 mg mL<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) and *y* represents the mass ratio between NH4Cl and ion precursors (e.g., NH4Cl/FeCl3 = 13/1). The nitrogen-doped carbon (denoted as ZIF-NC) was obtained by carbonizing ZIF-8 nanocrystals (Figure S1, Supporting Information) at 1100 °C under an Ar atmosphere. Then, the ZIF-NC with an average size of ≈250 nm (Figure 1b,c) was used to adsorb Fe ions (i.e., Fe3<sup>+</sup>, which was denoted as Fe3<sup>+</sup>/ZIF-NC) through trapping by nitrogen dopants and micropores.[8a,13] The bonding formation between Fe and

**Figure 1.** a) Synthesis scheme of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N catalyst by using a nitrogen-doped carbon host to absorb Fe ions followed by thermal activation and a further NH4Cl treatment. b) SEM and c) TEM images of the ZIF-NC. d) SEM and e) TEM images of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N. f) N2 adsorption/ desorption isotherms and g) pore size distributions of the ZIF-NC and ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N.

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

N, embedded into the carbon planes, can be triggered by a subsequently thermal activation at 900 °C under Ar flow.

In order to produce more defects and improve the intrinsic activity of the ZIF-NC-Fe materials, an NH4Cl treatment was further annealed at 1100 °C under Ar flow. During the treatment, the generated NH3 and HCl can etch the carbon skeleton and provide more sufficient nitrogen dopants to trap the neighbor Fe atoms. As shown in Figure 1d,e, and Figure S2, Supporting Information (X-ray diffraction patterns), the overall morphology and structure of the ZIF-NC particle was remained, whereas the etched edges and carbon surfaces can be observed. This is coincident with a slightly improved defect trend that is determined by Raman spectra (Figure S3, Supporting Information) via a detailed analysis of the ratio between D and G peak areas (AreaD/AreaG) for the ZIF-NC, ZIF-NC-0.5Fe, and ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N.[14] Beyond defects produced, the surface area of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N was improved to be ≈1334.3 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> when compared with the pristine ZIF-NC (1030.6 m2 g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , Figure 1f and Table S1, Supporting Information). As a result, the ORR activity was further enhanced, as can be demonstrated by a higher half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.887 V versus RHE for the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N than that of 0.876 V for the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe (without NH4Cl treatment, Figure S4, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the pores in both ZIF-NC and ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N are dominated with micropores, as can be confirmed by the pore size distribution analysis (Figure 1g). Other critical factors such as Fe source, Fe3<sup>+</sup> adsorption concentration, and NH4Cl usage were also controllably studied using a same synthesis method. For comparisons, single metal Co or Mn site catalysts were prepared via only changing the metal precursors.

The as-synthesized ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N catalysts were then analyzed for their physicochemical features (**Figure 2**). The high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images in Figure 2a,b along with the bright-field image (Figure S5a, Supporting Information) show a polyhedron morphology for the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N, identical to that of the ZIF-NC host (Figure 1c). The carbon phase in the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N catalyst is uniform, in which the curved carbon fringes[15] are dominated (Figure 2c and Figure S5b, Supporting Information). Further, HAADF-STEM images (Figure 2d,e) in *Z*-contrast mode attest to the atomic and uniform dispersion of Fe atoms in carbon phase, which was highlighted in red cycles. The energy dispersive spectroscopy spectrum (Figure S5c, Supporting Information) and elemental mapping (Figure 2f) of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N demonstrate the existence of C, N, and Fe in catalyst and further suggest a homogenous distribution of the doped N and Fe in a carbon matrix. Additionally, the high-resolution TEM image in bright field mode shows a clear partially graphitized carbon surface that is abundant of defects (Figure 2c and Figure S5b, Supporting Information), which are significant for hosting the FeN4 sites.

The element content in different catalyst materials was further determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), as can be demonstrated by the survey spectra (Figure S6a, Supporting Information). Zn peaks are observed on the ZIF-NC and ZIF-NC-Fe3<sup>+</sup> materials, but disappear in the thermallyactivated ZIF-NC-0.5Fe and ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N, suggesting the evaporation of Zn during the pyrolysis (Table S2, Supporting Information). Compared to the ZIF-NC host, obvious Fe 2p peaks can be observed after the adsorption of Fe3<sup>+</sup> ions and also in the thermally-activated samples (Figure S6b, Supporting Information). The Fe 2p spectra (Figure S7, Supporting Information) include two main peaks at 710.7 and 713.4 eV, which are assigned to Fe 2p3/2 and Fe 2p1/2, respectively. The Fe contents in the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe and ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N remain similar, while the N content in the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N shows a slight increase (0.24 at.%). The actual Fe content in the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N was determined to be ≈1.743 wt.% by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy . As for N 1s XPS, all of

**Figure 2.** Morphology, structure, and composition characterization of the atomically dispersed single Fe site catalysts (i.e., ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N). a) HAADF-STEM image and b) the corresponding enlarged image of the selected area. c) Bright-filed TEM image and d,e) HAADF-STEM images of the thin layers. f) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping of C, N, and Fe.

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 3.** a) N 1s XPS spectra of the ZIF-NC, ZIF-NC-0.5Fe, and ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N. b) XANES spectra of Fe K-edge with a zoomed-in view of prepeak region in the inset, c) EXAFS spectra of Fe K-edge, and d) WT of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N, Fe Pc, and Fe foil.

the Fe-containing catalysts demonstrated abundant pyridinic N (≈398.4 eV), graphitic N (≈400.9 eV), oxidized-N (≈402.4 eV), and the possible FeN*x* (≈399.8 eV), which are consistent with the ZIF-NC support (**Figure 3**a and S7). The percentage of different types of N element were summarized in Table S3, Supporting Information, which indicates that further pyrolysis of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe with NH4Cl at 1100 °C can induce a high level of graphitic N (≈59.9% in the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N).

Ex situ Fe K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES, Figure 3b) determines that the oxidation state of Fe atoms in catalyst is between the standard FeO (≈2+) and Fe2O3 (≈3+). The extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) in *R*-space of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N displays a clear peak at ca. 1.5 Å (Figure 3c), which is ascribed to the Fe−N first shell coordination. Furthermore, no Fe−Fe (≈2.20 Å) path can be found on Fe–N–C materials in relative to the standard Fe-containing materials, which further demonstrates the atomically dispersed nature of Fe atoms within the catalyst. According to the *R*-space fitting of EXAFS data, the coordination number of Fe−N is 3.7 ± 0.7 (Figure S8 and Table S4, Supporting Information), illuminating a dominant FeN4 structure in the catalyst materials. The local structure of Fe sites was further uncovered by Wavelet-transformed (WT) method. The WT spectrum of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N only revealed one contour intensity maximum at ≈4.0 Å−<sup>1</sup> in *K* space, which was similar to Fe Pc but different with Fe foil, suggesting again the Fe−N first shell coordination (Figure 3d). To this end, the WT EXAFS analysis suggested that the Fe atoms existed as mononuclear centers without the presence of Fe-derived crystalline structures.

#### **2.2. Catalyst ORR Performance**

The ORR activity of different single-metal site catalysts was evaluated using a rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte at 900 rpm and room temperature. Based on the loading controls (Figure S9, Supporting Information), all PGM-free catalysts were fixed with a loading of 0.60 mg cm−<sup>2</sup> for the following studies. A typical Pt/C (Alfa Aesar, 20 wt.% Pt on a Vulcan support) with a loading of 20 µgPt cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> was used for comparison. In this work, critical factors such as Fe source, Fe3+ adsorption concentration, and NH4Cl usage were controlled to determine their role in governing the ORR performance of a single Fe site catalyst.

Initially, different Fe sources including FeCl3, FeCl2·4H2O, Fe(NO3)3·9H2O, iron phthalocyanine, and Hemin were used to synthesize the single Fe site catalyst for comparison (Figure S10, Supporting Information). The Fe concentration in isopropanol and mass ratio of NH4Cl/Fe source were fixed to be 0.50 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> and 3/1, respectively. Among the synthesized single Fe site catalysts, iron source of FeCl3 displayed the highest ORR activity, as can be demonstrated by the highest

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** a) The *E*onset, *E*1/2, and *J*0.9 comparisons of the Fe-N-C catalysts prepared with different Fe sources. b) Steady-state ORR polarization plots of the ZIF-NC-*x*Fe-3N (*x* = 0.25, 0.50, 1.0, 2.0, or 3.0) and ZIF-NC. c) Steady-state ORR polarization plots of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-*y*N (*y* = 3, 7, 10, 13, or 15). d) Steady-state ORR polarization plots of ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N, ZIF-NC-0.5Co-13N, ZIF-NC-0.5Mn-13N, and Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytes. Their corresponding e) Tafel plots and f) the H2O2 yields along with the electron-transfer numbers. g) CA comparisons between ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N and Pt/C at 0.4 V versus RHE.

current density at 0.9 V (*J*0.9), *E*1/2 and onset potential (*E*onset, defined as the current density reaches to 0.1 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), as shown in **Figure 4**a. For example, the *E*1/2 of single Fe site catalysts prepared with FeCl3 is 0.887 V, much higher than iron phthalocyanine (0.844 V). Accordingly, FeCl3 was selected as the Fe source in the following studies.

Secondly, the ZIF-NC-*x*Fe-3N catalysts were prepared using FeCl3 isopropanol solution, in which *x* represents the varied concentrations of FeCl3 (i.e., 0.25, 0.50, 1.0, 2.0, or 3.0 mg mL<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ). As shown in Figure 4b, the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-3N with optimal Fe ion concentration (i.e., 0.50 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> ) exhibited the bestperforming ORR activity when compared with the others. The ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-3N exhibited an *E*onset and an *E*1/2 of 0.969 V and 0.842 V versus RHE, respectively. However, the ZIF-NC host showed poor ORR activity (*E*onset: 0.769 V and *E*1/2: 0.623 V), which was similar to the "metal-free" heteroatom-doped carbons reported elsewhere.[16] Although traced Zn residuals were detected in the ZIF-NC (0.92 at.%, Table S2, Supporting Information), its low ORR activity suggests that the effect of the remained Zn in catalyst can be neglected. Overall, the effect of Fe<sup>3</sup>+ adsorption concentration on ORR activity is neither too high (e.g., 3.0 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> ) nor too low (e.g., 0.25 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> ) is essential to generate an optimal catalytic performance (a socalled "volcano plot"). Higher doping leads to Fe agglomeration and unfavorable carbon structures (i.e., less porosity and defect), while lower doping yields an insufficient density of active sites.

Based on the optimal Fe source and Fe3+ adsorption concentration, the influence of NH4Cl usage was further studied (Figure 4c). The catalysts prepared with different NH4Cl usage were denoted as ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-*y*N, where *y* represents the mass ratios of NH4Cl/FeCl3 (*y* = 3, 7, 10, 13, or 15). With the increased using of NH4Cl, ORR activity of the obtained single Fe site catalysts was obviously enhanced. The ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N with an optimal NH4Cl/FeCl3 mass ratio of 13/1 exhibited the highest ORR activity with an *E*1/2 reaching to 0.887 V. Further increasing the NH4Cl usage leads to an increase of diffusion limiting current density (*J*d), whereas ≈11 mV of *E*1/2 loss was observed on the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-15N in relative to the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N. This suggests that an appropriate amount of NH4Cl is another key factor necessitated to generating an enhanced ORR activity. As a result, an iron source of FeCl3, Fe<sup>3</sup>+ concentration of 0.50 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> , and NH4Cl/FeCl3 mass ratio of 13/1 are the optimal conditions to prepare the best-performing single Fe

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

site catalyst for alkaline ORR electrocatalysis. In addition, an obvious reduction peak emerging in the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curve of O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution compared to the N2-saturated solution (Figure S11, Supporting Information) further demonstrates the reactive feature toward ORR for the optimal single Fe site catalyst.

The synthesis conditions (e.g., metal concentration and the amount of NH4Cl) indeed show great influence on ORR performance of the M-N-C catalysts including Co and Mn-based materials (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Nevertheless, the Fe-based catalyst exbibits the highest ORR activity when compared with Co or Mn-based catalysts (Figure 4b–d and Figure S12, Supporting Information). In order to make a straightforward comparison of different metal site catalysts, the same synthesis protocol by only changing the metal (M = Fe, Co, or Mn) salts was used in this work. As shown in Figure 4d, the as-prepared single Fe site catalyst exhibits an *E*onset of 1.005 V and *E*1/2 of 0.887 V, superior than those of Co (*E*onset = 0.914 V and *E*1/2 = 0.806 V) or Mn (*E*onset = 0.972 V and *E*1/2 = 0.859 V) site catalysts. Particularly, the optimal single Fe site catalyst displays ≈34 mV of higher *E*onset and ≈40 mV of higher *E*1/2 than Pt/C, further suggesting its more reactive nature toward ORR. The faster reaction kinetics of the Fe–N–C catalyst can be demonstrated by its lowest Tafel slope (78.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , Figure 4e). Both the Koutecky−Levich (K−L) plots (Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information) and the RRDE results (Figure 4f) for different M–N–C catalysts demonstrate an almost complete four-electron ORR pathway with a low H2O2 yield (<3.2%), similar to the state-of-the-art Pt/C. Furthermore, a higher durability toward alkaline ORR electrocatalysis for the Fe–N–C compared to Pt/C can be demonstrated by its much higher remained current density (≈92.4% vs 41.8%) after 50 000 s of chronoamperogram (CA) running (Figure 4g).

#### **2.3. Ammonia Tolerance of the M–N–C Catalysts**

In practical direct ammonia fuel cells, although ammonia enters the anode, an inevitable crossover from the anode to the cathode could poison the cathodic ORR catalyst. Therefore, studies to investigate and understand the ammonia tolerance of advanced catalyst materials is meaningful and in high demand. Herein, these M–N–C catalysts with high ORR activity will be used as an ideal platform to explore their ammonia tolerance during the ORR electrocatalysis.

As shown in **Figure 5**a, the optimal Fe–N–C catalyst exhibites a slight activity loss (i.e., a 4 mV of *E*1/2 negative shift and 2.7% of current decrease) in O2-saturated 0.1 M NH3 + 0.1 M KOH electrolytes. This indicates that some nitrogen-containing species may weakly adsorb onto the catalyst surface after exposure to ammonia. In order to evaluate whether the activity loss can be recovered or not, we further performed two hundred of CV scans with a scanning rate of 100 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and an operating window of –0.05–1.2 V versuss RHE in N2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytes. This is a typical surface cleaning method,[7a] aiming to remove the possible nitrogen-containing species adsorbed on

**Figure 5.** Electrochemical results of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N in 0.1 M KOH electrolytes with or without 0.1 M ammonia. a) Steady-state ORR polarization plots and b) CA curves at 0.85 V versus RHE. ORR activity loss and irreversible ORR activity of the ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N and Pt/C in 0.1 M KOH electrolytes with 0.02, 0.1, or 0.5 M NH3. c) *E*1/2 and d) *i* at 0.85 V versus RHE.

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

catalyst surface. The ORR activity of the optimal Fe–N–C catalyst is indeed recovered after such an electrochemical cleaning method, as can be demonstrated by the almost identical CV and polarization plots (Figure 5a and S15, Supporting Information), as well as the corresponding CA plots (Figure 5b).

In general, the atomically dispersed Fe–N–C catalysts mainly involve two types of active sites (i.e., FeN4 moieties and pyridinic N) for ORR electrocatalysis. To distinguish the adsorption sites of ammonia, the pyrolyzed ZIF-NC materials that domains pyridinic N dopants were used as a control group for comparison. As shown in Figure S16, Supporting Information, the ZIF-NC exhibited more severe activity loss (e.g., 14 mV of *E*1/2 loss) than ZIF-NC-0.5Fe-13N (Figure 5a), indicating that ammonia is likely easier adsorbed onto pyridinic N sites than FeN4 sites. The poor ammonia tolerance of pyridinic N sites can be further confirmed by an unrecoverable current after ammonia-containing CA tests (Figure S16, Supporting Information). These results demonstrate that FeN4 active sites have a superior ammonia tolerance, better than that of the "metal-free" pyridinic N active sites. Moreover, the presence of ammonia with different concentrations (*C*NH3 = 0.02, 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, or 3.0 M, Figure S17, Supporting Information) was used to evaluate whether the dissolved ammonia will affect O2 solubility and the diffusion coefficient in electrolytes. The tested results suggest that no obvious changes of the diffusion-limited current were observed, which is different from the previous report related to methanol tolerance of FeN4 active sites.[7a]

Insight into the specific effect of ammonia on Fe-N-C materials and comparing it with the state-of-the-art Pt/C is a more straightforward way to differentiate those well-known and most promising ORR catalysts. As shown in Figures 5a,b, S18 and S19, Supporting Information, the atomically dispersed Fe-N-C catalyst indeed displays negligible potential (e.g., *E*1/2) and current (e.g., *i* at 0.85 V versus RHE) losses when in presence of ammonia in the electrolytes, whereas significant potential and current losses are observed on Pt/C. For example, a ≈34 mV of *E*1/2 loss and 80% current decrease for Pt/C occurred in 0.1 M NH3 + 0.1 M KOH electrolytes, indicating ammonia can poison the Pt surface and lower the ORR activity. As mentioned before, both the *E*1/2 and current losses are negligible for the Fe–N–C catalyst. In addition to determining the activity loss, the evaluation of the irreversible performance loss is also valuable to anticipate the possible long-term serving traits of a catalyst used at the cathode in a direct ammonia fuel cell. The activity of the Fe-N-C catalyst can be restored almost to its original level for all those exampled ammonia concentrations (i.e., 0.02, 0.1, or 0.5 M), while the irreversible activity loss (particularly the current loss) for Pt/C is more serious, with all of the eventually irrecoverable currents >40%. This is likely suggested that Pt sites have a stronger bonding interaction with the nitrogencontaining species than that of the atomically dispersed FeN4 sites. In other words, the atomically dispersed FeN4 active sites are tolerable to ammonia during ORR electrocatalysis. This unique ammonia tolerance can be extended to other atomically dispersed M-N-C catalysts (e.g., Co–N–C or Mn–N–C in Figures S20 and S21, respectively).

As a result, the atomically dispersed M-N-C (M = Fe, Co, or Mn) catalysts exhibit a superior ammonia tolerance than the state-of-the-art Pt/C. Among others, the atomically dispersed Fe-N-C catalyst has the lowest irreversible current loss. In consideration of both the overall best ORR performance and ammonia tolerance for the Fe–N–C catalysts, it can be regarded as a promising cathodic catalyst candidate for direct ammonia fuel cells.

#### **2.4. Theoretical Studies of the ORR in Presence of Ammonia**

To further unearth the origin of NH3 tolerance capability enhancement on the ORR process, DFT calculations were conducted to investigate the adsorption behavior of NH3 and O2 on Pt (111) surfaces and MN4 (M = Fe, Co or Mn)-graphene (G). Note that the model MN4 sites and Pt (111) surfaces were used to shed light on the fundamental understanding of their ammonia tolerance during the ORR electrocatalysis. **Figure 6**a displays the most stable adsorption modes of NH3 and O2 molecules on Pt (111) surfaces or FeN4-G, as well as on CoN4-G or MnN4-G (Figure S22, Supporting Information), where Pt or M (M = Fe, Co or Mn) atoms are served as the active sites. The adsorption energies of NH3 and O2 molecules on those metal surfaces are shown in Figure 6b. On the MN4-G surface, the adsorption energies of O2 with −0.87, −0.87 or −0.89 eV are all larger than that of NH3 with −0.67, −0.56 or −0.62 eV for Fe, Co, or Mn sites, respectively, indicating that MN4-G shows stronger capture ability of O2 than NH3, benefiting for the following ORR in a trace amount of NH3. While for the Pt (111) surface, the adsorption energy of O2 with −0.49 eV is much lower than NH3 with −1.19 eV, demonstrating an opposite trend of O2 and NH3 uptake to MN4-G surface. Hence, the MN4 active sites possess a higher ammonia tolerance and O2 reduction capability than Pt (111) surface during the ORR process.

Additionally, the extended bond length of O−O, the reduced magnetic moment, and the gained electrons of adsorbed O2 species were ulteriorly intensified for MN4-G, compared with Pt (111) surface (Tables S5 and S6, Supporting Information), validating the O2 activation on MN4 sites. The partial density of states (PDOS) of Fe atom and adjacent O (N) atom in O2 and NH3 adsorption configuration of the FeN4-G were analyzed in Figure 6c, which was compared with Pt (111) surface (Figure 6d). In the energy ranges of −8.0 to −5.0 eV and −2.0 to 0.0 eV relative to Fermi level, the *d*z2, *d*yz and *d*xz orbitals of Fe site hybridize with *p*z, *p*y, and *p*x orbitals of adjacent O atom, which possess higher intensity than Pt atom (Figure S23, Supporting Information), indicating stronger O2 uptake capability on FeN4-G and Co(Mn)N4-G surfaces.[17] Meanwhile, for NH3 adsorption configuration, the PDOS of Fe and N atoms demonstrates that it has tiny interaction due to the limited orbital overlap with Fe *d*z2 and O *p*z orbitals in the energy ranges of −6.0 to −4.0 eV and −1.0 to 0 eV, unraveling stronger O2 adsorption ability than NH3 on the FeN4-G, the same as another MN4-G system. Nevertheless, in the adsorption of NH3 on the Pt (111) surface, the PDOS of Pt and bonded N atom display intense orbital hybridization for the *p*y and *p*x orbitals of N atom, as well as *d*yz and *d*xz of Pt atom in the energy range of −9.5 to −8.5 eV, N *p*z orbital and Pt *d*z2 orbital with the energy range of −7.0 to −4.0 eV and around the Fermi level, marking

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 6.** a) The optimal adsorption mode of NH3 and O2 molecules on Pt (111) surfaces and FeN4-G. b) The adsorption energies of NH3 and O2 molecules on Pt (111) surfaces, FeN4-G, CoN4-G and MnN4-G. The partial density of states (PDOS) of c) Fe atom and d) Pt (111) surface adjacent O (N) atom in the O2 and NH3 adsorption configuration.

excessively strong NH3 capture in relative to MN4-G.[18] Taken together, MN4-G surfaces are beneficial for O2 uptake and the following ORR process in trace amount of NH3 atmosphere through the adsorption energy calculation and electronic structure simulations, superior to the Pt system.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a highly active Fe-N-C catalyst was developed through an adsorption and two-step pyrolysis approach, which is effective to increase the intrinsic ORR activity of the FeN4 active sites by creating more defects via further NH4Cl thermal activation. The atomically dispersed Fe sites were directly observed at an atomic level using the aberration-corrected STEM analysis, while the possible FeN4 coordination was confirmed by XAS measurements. To extend our work, other atomically dispersed and nitrogen-coordinated single metal (i.e., CoN4 or MnN4) site catalysts were prepared using an identical synthesis method and those synthesized M–N–C catalysts were further evaluated and compared with Pt/C in ammoniacontaining alkaline electrolytes.

Ammonia tolerance experiments indicate that the existence of ammonia has inevitably negative effects on the ORR performance of these catalysts no matter containing precious or precious-free metals. The M-N-C materials with atomically MN4 sites display higher ammonia tolerance than the state-ofthe-art Pt/C, likely due to their weaker adsorption to ammonia molecules, which has been elucidated by both the experimental and theoretical results. Significantly, the ammonia adsorption does not affect the four-electron ORR pathway and destroy the MN4 sites. Also, the weakly-adsorbed nitrogen-containing species at the catalyst surface could be easily removed by the electrochemical cleaning method. Our findings in this work sheds light on the possible using of high-performance M–N–C catalysts directly in DAFC cathodes to substitute the PGM catalysts.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51972150 and No. 22279053), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (SBK20210769), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2022M711543) and the Postgraduate Research & Practice Innovation Program of Jiangsu Province (KYCX22\_3635). The theoretical calculations were performed on A6 Zone of the Beijing Super Cloud Computing Center, supported by PARATERA.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

16163028, 2023, 32, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202301084 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

ammonia tolerance, direct ammonia fuel cells, electrocatalysis, M-N-C materials, oxygen reduction reaction

> Received: January 30, 2023 Revised: April 12, 2023 Published online: April 28, 2023

- [1] a) O. Elishav, B. Mosevitzky Lis, E. M. Miller, D. J. Arent, A. Valera-Medina, A. Grinberg Dana, G. E. Shter, G. S. Grader, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 5352; b) Z. Cesaro, M. Ives, R. Nayak-Luke, M. Mason, R. Bañares-Alcántara, *Appl. Energy* **2021**, *282*, 116009; c) D. R. MacFarlane, P. V. Cherepanov, J. Choi, B. H. R. Suryanto, R. Y. Hodgetts, J. M. Bakker, F. M. Ferrero Vallana, A. N. Simonov, *Joule* **2020**, *4*, 1186.
- [2] a) Y. Li, H. Wang, C. Priest, S. Li, P. Xu, G. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2000381; b) Y. Zhao, B. P. Setzler, J. Wang, J. Nash, T. Wang, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, 2472; c) Y. Li, H. S. Pillai, T. Wang, S. Hwang, Y. Zhao, Z. Qiao, Q. Mu, S. Karakalos, M. Chen, J. Yang, D. Su, H. Xin, Y. Yan, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 1449.
- [3] Y. Zhao, T. Wang, B. P. Setzler, R. Abbasi, J. Wang, Y. Yan, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2021**, *6*, 1996.
- [4] a) J. Wang, Y. Zhao, B. P. Setzler, S. Rojas-Carbonell, C. Ben Yehuda, A. Amel, M. Page, L. Wang, K. Hu, L. Shi, S. Gottesfeld, B. Xu, Y. Yan, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 392; b) L. Shi, Y. Zhao, S. Matz, S. Gottesfeld, B. P. Setzler, Y. Yan, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 238.
- [5] a) Y. Li, X. Li, H. S. Pillai, J. Lattimer, N. Mohd Adli, S. Karakalos, M. Chen, L. Guo, H. Xu, J. Yang, D. Su, H. Xin, G. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 3945; b) H. S. Pillai, Y. Li, S. H. Wang, N. Omidvar, Q. Mu, L. E. K. Achenie, F. Abild-Pedersen, J. Yang, G. Wu, H. Xin, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 792; c) Z. Liu, Y. Li, X. Zhang, S. Rao, J. Li, W. Wang, Z. Sun, J. Yang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 28816.
- [6] a) R. Abbasi, H. Wang, J. R. C. Lattimer, H. Xu, G. Wu, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2020**, *167*, 164510; b) T. Wang, Y. Zhao, B. P. Setzler, Y. Yan, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2021**, *168*, 014507.
- [7] a) Q. Shi, Y. He, X. Bai, M. Wang, D. A. Cullen, M. Lucero, X. Zhao, K. L. More, H. Zhou, Z. Feng, Y. Liu, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3544; b) R. Gao, J. Wang, Z.-F. Huang, R. Zhang, W. Wang,

- L. Pan, J. Zhang, W. Zhu, X. Zhang, C. Shi, J. Lim, J. J. Zou, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 614.
- [8] a) Y. Li, N. M. Adli, W. Shan, M. Wang, M. J. Zachman, S. Hwang, H. Tabassum, S. Karakalos, Z. Feng, G. Wang, Y. C. Li, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 2108; b) Y. He, G. Wu, *Acc Mater Res* **2022**, *3*, 224; c) S. Lou, Q. Liu, F. Zhang, Q. Liu, Z. Yu, T. Mu, Y. Zhao, J. Borovilas, Y. Chen, M. Ge, X. Xiao, W. K. Lee, G. Yin, Y. Yang, X. Sun, J. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5700; d) Y. Zhang, C. Kang, W. Zhao, Y. Song, J. Zhu, H. Huo, Y. Ma, C. Du, P. Zuo, S. Lou, G. Yin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 1728.
- [9] J. Liu, X. Wan, S. Liu, X. Liu, L. Zheng, R. Yu, J. Shui, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103600.
- [10] a) Y. He, S. Hwang, D. A. Cullen, M. A. Uddin, L. Langhorst, B. Li, S. Karakalos, A. J. Kropf, E. C. Wegener, J. Sokolowski, M. Chen, D. Myers, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 250; b) Y. Li, Y. Zhou, C. Zhu, Y. H. Hu, S. Gao, Q. Liu, X. Cheng, L. Zhang, J. Yang, Y. Lin, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2018**, *8*, 5325; c) M. Chen, X. Li, F. Yang, B. Li, T. Stracensky, S. Karakalos, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, D. Su, G. Wang, G. Wu, H. Xu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 10523.
- [11] a) F. Luo, A. Roy, L. Silvioli, D. A. Cullen, A. Zitolo, M. T. Sougrati, I. C. Oguz, T. Mineva, D. Teschner, S. Wagner, J. Wen, F. Dionigi, U. I. Kramm, J. Rossmeisl, F. Jaouen, P. Strasser, *Nat. Mater.* **2020**, *19*, 1215; b) G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B. A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J. N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734; c) A. Han, X. Wang, K. Tang, Z. Zhang, C. Ye, K. Kong, H. Hu, L. Zheng, P. Jiang, C. Zhao, Q. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19262.
- [12] a) Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254; b) N. Ramaswamy, U. Tylus, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 15443.
- [13] Y. Li, W. Shan, M. J. Zachman, M. Wang, S. Hwang, H. Tabassum, J. Yang, X. Yang, S. Karakalos, Z. Feng, G. Wang, G. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *134*, e202205632.
- [14] a) J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935; b) J. Li, H. Zhang, W. Samarakoon, W. Shan, D. A. Cullen, S. Karakalos, M. Chen, D. Gu, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Feng, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 18971.
- [15] A. Mehmood, M. Gong, F. Jaouen, A. Roy, A. Zitolo, A. Khan, M.-T. Sougrati, M. Primbs, A. M. Bonastre, D. Fongalland, G. Drazic, P. Strasser, A. Kucernak, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 311.
- [16] Y. Li, J. Yang, N. Zhao, J. Huang, Y. Zhou, K. Xu, N. Zhao, *Appl. Catal. A Gen.* **2017**, *534*, 30.
- [17] X. Li, Z. Xiang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 57.
- [18] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Adv. Catal.* **2000**, *45*, 71.