---
source: Wu 等 - 2024 - Unraveling the Tandem Effect of Nitrogen Configuration Promoting Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Alkali.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 23.771s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:36:17.631030Z
---

# **Unraveling the Tandem Effect of Nitrogen Configuration Promoting Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Alkaline Seawater**

*Siqi Wu, Xiaobin Liu,\* Huimin Mao, Jiawei Zhu, Guizhong Zhou, Jingqi Chi, Zexing Wu, and Lei Wang\**

**Developing seawater-based high-performance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) electrocatalysts is meaningful to renewable energy storage and conversion, and the Fe-based derivatives encapsulated by nitrogen (N) doped carbon are the typical representative. Nevertheless, unrevealing the mechanism of N configuration to ORR activity and chlorine resistance is still a great challenge. In this work, a feasible strategy is developed to prepare controllable pyridinic/pyrrolic-N doped carbon-coated Fe-based electrocatalysts (FexN-NC). Drawing support from the H3PO4 blocking based in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) test and density-functional theory (DFT) calculation, the tandem effect of pyridinic-N and pyrrolic-N on ORR is proved. Additionally, the low hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) yield and 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway of FexN-NC demonstrate that N doping effectively reduces the adsorption of Cl<sup>−</sup>, which is consistent with the low Cl<sup>−</sup> adsorption energy of DFT. The half-wave potential (E1/2) of FexN-NC for ORR reaches 0.874 V in alkaline seawater, and ZABs assembled with FexN-NC as the air cathode deliver a remarkable power density (162 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2), along with excellent long-term durability (***>***400 h).**

### **1. Introduction**

The development and utilization of novel energy storage and conversion devices to replace conventional fossil fuels is a key step toward carbon neutrality.[\[1–3\]](#page-7-0) Zinc-air batteries (ZABs) are one of the most competitive candidates for large-scale energy storage due to their high theoretical energy density of 1360 Wh kg<sup>−</sup>1, environmental friendliness, and intrinsic safety due to the aqueous electrolyte properties.[\[4–6\]](#page-8-0) The performance of ZABs is

S. Wu, X. Liu, H. Mao, J. Zhu, G. Zhou, J. Chi, Z. Wu, L. Wang Key Laboratory of Eco-chemical Engineering International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Eco-chemical Engineering and Green Manufacturing College of Environment and Safety Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China E-mail: [liuxb@qust.edu.cn;](mailto:liuxb@qust.edu.cn) [inorchemwl@qust.edu.cn](mailto:inorchemwl@qust.edu.cn)

Z. Wu, L. Wang College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202400183>

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202400183**

highly dependent on cathode catalysts because of the slow kinetics of oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[\[7–10\]](#page-8-0) Pt-based catalysts are currently the most effective ORR catalysts, but their high price and scarcity have severely limited their large-scale application in ZABs.[\[11–13\]](#page-8-0) Recently, the 3d transition metal Fe-based derivatives encapsulated by N-doped carbon (NC) are considered to be effective substitutes for Pt-based benchmarks in ORR.[\[14\]](#page-8-0) For instance, Zheng and collaborators achieved successful immobilization of Fe species onto the highly curved surface of S, N co-doped carbonaceous nanosprings (FeNS/Fe3C@CNS),[\[15\]](#page-8-0) and the catalyst exhibits excellent ORR performance under both acidic and alkaline conditions. Recently, Yang et al. obtained a novel ORR electrocatalyst by preparing Fe, N, P-CNSs co-doped ultra-thin carbon nanoshells (Fe, N, P-CNSs) decorated with homogeneously

dispersed ultrafine Fe2P nanocrystals (Fe, N, P-CNSs/Fe2P).[\[16\]](#page-8-0) The excellent ORR performance may be attributed to the combined effect of Fe-Nx species and ultrafine Fe2P nanocrystals. Generally speaking, the activity site of the above-mentioned coreshell electrocatalyst is located on the NC shell surface,[\[17\]](#page-8-0) and the Fe-based core acts as an aid in regulating the distribution of electronic structures.[\[18,19\]](#page-8-0) Nevertheless, almost all reports have investigated the "synergistic effect" between the Fe-based core and NC shell, ignoring the effect of the N configuration on the true active center. In addition, the vast majority of ORR catalysis is carried out in alkaline pure water, ignoring the resource-rich seawater.[\[20–22\]](#page-8-0) The ions in seawater are more complex and diverse, and the adsorption behavior of chloride ions (Cl<sup>−</sup>) blocks the active sites during ORR, accelerating the corrosion or degradation of the electrocatalysts.[\[23–25\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, unrevealing the mechanism of N configuration to ORR activity and chlorine resistance is still a great challenge but meaningful.

Based on the above considerations, we proposed a feasible strategy to prepare controllable pyridinic/pyrrolic-N doped carbon-coated Fe-based electrocatalysts, which is noted as FexN-NC. The tandem effect of pyridinic-N and pyrrolic-N on ORR is proved by H3PO4 blocking based in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) test and density-functional theory (DFT) calculation. Additionally, the low hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) yield and 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway of FexN-NC demonstrate that N

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Internal mechanism diagram of FexN-NC. b) SEM, c) TEM, d) SAED pattern, e) HRTEM, f) TEM mapping images of FexN-NC.

doping effectively reduces the adsorption of Cl<sup>−</sup>, which is consistent with the low Cl<sup>−</sup> adsorption energy of DFT. As a result, FexN-NC exhibits a high half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.874 V in alkaline seawater electrolyte, and the constructed FexN-NC-based Zn-air battery affords an excellent peak discharge power density of 162 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a long-term durability exceeding 400 h at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. In addition, FexN-NC shows mechanical flexibility as seawater-based flexible quasi-solid ZABs.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

FexN-NC is synthesized in a simple two-step process including hydrothermal and high-temperature calcination (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The N configuration is effectively modulated by introducing a mixed N source to improve the performance of the catalyst in alkaline seawater electrolytes (**Figure 1**a). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) shows that Fe-MIL has rhombohedral octahedron morphology (Figure S2, Supporting Information). After nitriding treatment, plentiful carbon nanotubes (CNTs) grew on the outer layer of the polyhedron to obtain FexN-NC (Figure 1b; Figure S3, Supporting Information). In this work, melamine and glycine are used as the N source. When the melamine and glycine ratios are 4:1 and 6:1, the FexN-NC-4 and FexN-NC-6 are obtained, respectively (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Although the ratio of mixed N source is different, similar rhombohedral octahedron morphology would be formed after high-temperature calcination. When the N source is only melamine or glycine, the FexN-NC-M and FexN-NC-G are obtained, respectively. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image (Figure 1c) displays that the surface of the rhombic octahedron has a large number of N-doped carbon nanotubes (NCNT), which will effectively improve the conductivity of the catalyst. Selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern further demonstrates that the catalyst has a polycrystalline structure (Figure 1d), and the diffraction rings are consistent with the facets of Fe and Fe3N. At the same time, high-resolution TEM

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns of FexN-NC. b) N2 adsorption-desorption curve, c) pore diameter distribution of FexN-NC, d) Fe 2p, e) C 1s, f) N 1s spectra of FexN-NC. g) Diagrammatic illustration of N configuration, h) variation of pyridinic-N and pyrrolic-N in different samples, i) Raman after Gaussian fitting of FexN-NC.

(HRTEM) images exhibit clear and visible lattice stripes with a lattice spacing of 0.218 nm (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0), corresponding to the (002) crystal plane of Fe3N, respectively, and the lattice fringe of 0.143 nm is attributed to the (200) crystal plane of Fe, which is corresponding to the results of SAED. The energy dispersive X-ray energy spectrum (EDS) in Figure [1f,](#page-1-0) implies that elements such as C, N, O, and Fe are uniformly distributed over the entire FexN-NC framework.

The crystal phases of the as-prepared powders are determined by using the X-ray diffraction (XRD) technique. **Figure 2**a shows the XRD spectra of FexN-NC-6, FexN-NC, and FexN-NC-4, the peak at 45° mainly corresponds to the (110) crystal plane of Fe (PDF#06-0696), the main characteristic diffraction peaks at 44°, 58°, and 70° are attributed to Fe3N (PDF#49-1664), which is basically consistent with the previously reported results. Notably, the diffraction peaks of FexN-NC-G and FexN-NC-M are almost different from FexN-NC (Figure S5, Supporting Information), which may be related to the use of different N sources. The porosity and specific surface area of the catalyst are studied through N2 adsorption-desorption measurement. The N2 adsorption-desorption curve of the FexN-NC (Figure 2b) can be attributed to the type IV isotherms, and the FexN-NC displays a surface area of ∼270.8 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1. Figure 2c reveals that there are abundant mesopores in the catalyst, and large number of mesopores help to expose more active sites, thus accelerating electron transfer and improving ORR activity.

The surface chemistry and bonding configuration of the FexN-NC catalyst are studied using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The full spectrum of XPS confirms that the prepared catalyst contains only Fe, C, N, and O (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The Fe 2p spectrum in Figure 2d displays that the peaks at 719.9 and 706.9 eV are from Fe0, and the peaks at 721.6 and 709.6 eV can be assigned to Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and the peaks at 723.8 and 712.3 eV belong to Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively, which may originate from

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

the surface oxidation of the FexN-NC. Besides, the satellite peaks can be found at 726.1 and 716.2 eV.[\[26,27\]](#page-8-0) The C 1s XPS spectrum can be fitted to four bonds, C─C, C─N, C─O, and C═O, respectively (Figure [2e\)](#page-2-0).[\[28,29\]](#page-8-0) The peak of the C─C bond is located at 284.4 eV, belonging to sp2-hybridized graphite carbon. Highly graphitized carbon can effectively enhance conductivity and accelerate charge transfer during electrocatalytic processes. The peak of 284.9 eV can be assigned to the C─N bond, which can be assigned to the sp2-hybridized N-doped carbon, indicating that the N atom is indeed doped into the carbon matrix, and the ORR active site formed by heteroatom doping in the carbon-based catalyst results in the redistribution of the charge on the carbon matrix. The presence of C─O (286.4 eV) and C═O (289.1 eV) bonds indicate the presence of O-containing groups in the carbon matrix. The N 1s spectrum in Figure [2f,](#page-2-0) includes pyridinic-N (398.2 eV), metallic-N (399.3 eV), pyrrolic-N (400.7 eV), graphitic-N (401.6 eV), and oxidized-N (403.0 eV), respectively.[\[30–32\]](#page-8-0) The related N configuration is displayed in Figure [2g.](#page-2-0) According to previous reports, pyridinic-N can not only be used as the active site of ORR but also form M─N groups through covalent coordination with adjacent metal atoms. Pyridinic-N can improve the activity and stability of the catalyst by adjusting the electronic structure and active sites. Graphitic-N can effectively improve the electrical conductivity of the catalyst and promote the electron transport inside and on the surface. Besides, in order to investigate the effect of different ratios of melamine and glycine on the N functional group, N 1s XPS spectral analysis is also conducted on different comparison samples. During the pyrolysis process, melamine tends to be transformed into pyridinic-N and graphitic-N, meanwhile, the dehydration process of glycine will convert pyridinic-N into pyrrolic-N. Therefore, as shown in Figure [2h,](#page-2-0) Figure S7, and Table S1 (Supporting Information), the peaks intensity and quantitative analysis show that with the reduction of melamine, the pyridinic-N content gradually decreases, while the pyrrolic-N content gradually increases. Figure [2i](#page-2-0) and Figure S8 (Supporting Information) show the Raman spectra of FexN-NC, FexN-NC-M, and FexN-NC-G, and all samples have clear D and G bands. Unlike FexN-NC, the relative peak intensity ratio of the D and G bands (ID/IG) of FexN-NC-G and FexN-NC-M are much higher, which are 0.969 and 0.997, respectively, indicating that the degree of graphitization of FexN-NC has been increased, which can be attributed to the different catalytic graphitization effects of the introduced N-content. In addition, further Raman analysis is carried out through Gaussian fitting. Among them, compared with sp3 type carbon located at 1235.6 and 1496.3 cm<sup>−</sup>1, the catalyst containing more sp<sup>2</sup> type D-band and G-band carbon is located at 1366.4 and 1592.7 cm<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, which is more conducive to electron transfer.

#### **2.1. Electrochemical Activity Evaluation**

The electrocatalytic activity of FexN-NC is tested in 0.1 m KOH with a traditional three-electrode system. The cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves show a clear reduction peak in the O2-saturated solution, whereas no corresponding peak appears in the N2-saturated solution (Figure S9a, Supporting Information). Similar reduction peaks also appear in FexN-NC-4, FexN-NC-6, FexN-NC-M, and FexN-NC-G, indicating that this type of catalyst has excellent ORR potential (Figure S9b, Supporting Information). Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) is also used to further compare the electrocatalytic activity of the catalysts. As shown in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-4-0) the onset potential (Eonset), E1/2, and limit current density (JL) of FexN-NC is 0.997 V, 0.873 V, and 5.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which is not only superior to the comparison samples (Figure S10, Supporting Information) but even higher than the commercial Pt/C (E1/2 = 0.866 V). Impressively, the electrochemical performance of FexN-NC is significantly better than that of currently reported ORR catalysts (Figure [3b;](#page-4-0) Table S2, Supporting Information). It is well known that kinetic current density (JK) reflects activity and the mass transfer process. The JK of FexN-NC reaches 2.085 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.9 V, which is 1.4-fold as large as that of Pt/C (JK = 1.497 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), indicating that FexN-NC has faster reaction kinetics and accelerates the occurrence of ORR (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0). In order to further comprehend the kinetics and path selectivity of catalysts, Tafel slopes, Koutecky–Levich (K–L) equation, and electrochemical double layer capacitance (Cdl) are investigated. The Tafel slopes corresponding to FexN-NC, FexN-NC-4, FexN-NC-6, FexN-NC-M, FexN-NC-G and commercial Pt/C are 90.0, 97.6, 96.8, 99.3, 100 and 99.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, respectively (Figure S11, Supporting Information), where FexN-NC has the smallest Tafel slope, demonstrating the most excellent electrocatalytic activity during ORR.

To explore the ORR pathway, the electron transfer number (n) is calculated by recording the LSV curves at different speeds and using the K–L equation (Figure S12a, Supporting Information). Similar slopes result in good linear relationships at different potentials, reflecting the first-order kinetics of saturated dissolved oxygen reactions. In the potential range of 0.5–0.7 V, the n is ≈4, which is close to the theoretical value, indicating a significant 4e<sup>−</sup> ORR process in FexN-NC. The n and yield of peroxide percentage (H2O2%) are calculated through the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) technique (Figure S12b, Supporting Information). The yield of H2O2% of the catalyst is less than 2%, and the n value in the potential range of 0.2–0.8 V is ≈4, which corresponds to the K–L curves, indicating the high selectivity for 4e<sup>−</sup> reaction of the electrocatalyst. Subsequently, the Cdl of the C–V curves are measured at different scanning rates and further calculated (Figure S13, Supporting Information), where FexN-NC has the largest Cdl, indicating that the electrocatalyst has a fast charge transfer rate and thus promoting the reaction (Figure [3d\)](#page-4-0).

The excellent ORR performance of FexN-NC in 0.1 m KOH provides the condition for its ORR application in seawater. Cl<sup>−</sup>is the primary dissolved component in the seawater, therefore, the behavior of catalysts in chloride-containing electrolytes is studied in this work. The ORR performance of FexN-NC is tested in simulated seawater, of 0.1 m KOH + x m NaCl (x = 0, 0.2, 0.5, 1) (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0). As the concentration of NaCl increases, E1/2 remains stable at ≈0.87 V, but JL continue to decrease, indicating that the catalyst has strong tolerance to NaCl (*<*1 M) within a certain concentration and has the potential for stable operation under chloride-containing conditions. Meanwhile, the effect of the testing time of Cl<sup>−</sup> on the catalyst is also verified (Figure S14a, Supporting Information), and the E1/2 and JL decrease with increasing tested time. After immersion in chlorine-containing solution for 320 mins, FexN-NC is tested in 0.1 m KOH and a significant decrease in performance is found compared to the initial catalyst, indicating that the catalyst is poisoned by Cl<sup>−</sup> (Figure S14b,

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) LSV tests of  $Fe_xN$ -NC and Pt/C collected after the electrolyte is saturated with  $O_2$  (inset: comparison of the  $E_{1/2}$ ). b) Literature comparison chart about ORR performance of  $Fe_xN$ -NC with reported catalysts. c) The bar diagram of  $E_{1/2}$  and  $J_K$ , d)  $C_{dl}$  of  $Fe_xN$ -NC and comparison samples. e) ORR LSV curves of  $Fe_xN$ -NC in simulated seawater. f) Peroxide production and n in 0.1 m KOH + seawater. g) Schematic illustration for the degradation mechanism for  $Fe_xN$ -NC. h) The adsorption energy of different catalysts to  $Cl^-$ . i) LSV tests of  $Fe_xN$ -NC and Pt/C for ORR collected after the electrolyte is saturated with  $O_2$  (inset: comparison of the  $E_{1/2}$ ).

Supporting Information). During the process of the ORR, the Cl<sup>-</sup> may corrode the N-doped carbon layer, which may lead to the dissolution of the metal to form the soluble chlorine complexes. In order to verify that the N-doped carbon layer can effectively enhance the chlorine resistance, catalysts without N sources (Fe, C) are tested under the same conditions (Figure \$15a, Supporting Information). After testing for a period of time, the potential at E<sub>1/2</sub> shows significant degradation compared to Fe<sub>x</sub>N-NC, indicating that the introduction of an N source can effectively resist the toxicity of Cl<sup>-</sup> to the catalyst (Figure \$15b, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> selectivity of Fe<sub>x</sub>N-NC and Fe<sub>x</sub>C is tested in 0.1 M KOH + seawater. The results show that the selectivity of the Fe<sub>x</sub>N-NC is lower than 3%, n is ≈4, while the selectivity of the Fe<sub>v</sub>C is higher than 10%, n is  $\approx$ 3.4, indicating a coexistence of 2 and 4e<sup>-</sup> pathway (Figure 3f).[33-35] It suggests that the catalyst can still maintain the 4e- pathway under chlorinecontaining conditions, which proves that this special N-doped carbon has a stronger anti-Cl $^-$  blocking effect, so it does not affect the adsorption of  $O_2$  molecules at the active site, and the O $^-$ O bond is not broken and the  $2e^-$  reaction is not induced. As shown in Figure 3g and Figure S16 (Supporting Information), the effect of Cl $^-$  on the catalyst is displayed. In addition, the adsorption energy of the N-doped carbon and pure carbon layer catalysts for Cl $^-$  are calculated. The N-doped carbon layers of pyrrolic-N ( $^-$ 0.71 eV) and pyridinic-N ( $^-$ 0.84 eV) has weaker Cl $^-$  adsorption energy compared to the pure C sites ( $^-$ 1.07 eV) (Figure  $^-$ 3h), certifying that the N-doped carbon layers are more resistant to Cl $^-$ , which is conducive to the prolongation of their catalytic stability in seawater-based electrolytes.

The above researches certify that  $Fe_x N-NC$  has excellent chlorine resistance. Subsequently, the ORR performance of  $Fe_x N-NC$  is explored in 0.1 M KOH + seawater. As shown in Figure 3i, the  $E_{1/2}$  of  $Fe_x N-NC$  is up to 0.874 V, higher than the commercial Pt/C. It is worth noting that compared to the performance

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a,b) In situ infrared of FexN-NC for ORR. c) Changes in N-species and potential before and after phosphate blockade. d) Three different models include the C site of pyrrolic-N, pyridinic-N, and pure C. e) Transfer electrons value three different models. f) O2 adsorption demonstration process, g) TDOS of three different models.

in 0.1 m KOH, the decrease of the JL in 0.1 m KOH + seawater may be related to the presence of Cl<sup>−</sup> in seawater, and the H2O2 yield of FexN-NC in 0.1 m KOH + 0.5 m NaCl and 0.1 m KOH + seawater is less than 3% (Figure S17, Supporting Information). It further proves that the chlorine resistance of FexN-NC and the effect of Cl<sup>−</sup> in seawater on the ORR performance of the catalyst plays a leading role. Meanwhile, stability is another important indicator for evaluating catalyst performance. As shown in Figure S18a (Supporting Information), after 3000 CV cycles, the E1/2 of FexN-NC remains basically unchanged, while there is a slight change in JL. In addition, after 15 h of cyclic stability testing, FexN-NC is only attenuated by 7%, while commercial Pt/C attenuated by 24%, proving that FexN-NC has excellent ORR stability (Figure S18b, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, FexN-NC is

tested for stability at 0.1 and 0.1 m KOH + 0.5 m NaCl (Figure S19, Supporting Information). Subsequently, the XRD and XPS of FexN-NC after the stability test are further measured. As shown in Figure S20a (Supporting Information), the crystalline phase does not change, proving the structural stability of the catalyst. In addition, the XPS spectra of Fe 2p (Figure S20b, Supporting Information) show no significant shift in peak position, which further demonstrates the excellent stability of FexN-NC as an ORR catalyst.

In order to demonstrate that the excellent performance of ORR is the result of the tandem effect of the optimal N configuration, different samples are synthesized by means of a single N source, and the performance of ORR is tested in 0.1 m KOH. As shown in Figure S21 (Supporting Information), the ORR

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Open circuit voltage, b) curves of discharge and power density, c) the constant current discharge process at different current densities. d) The long cycling curves of FexN-NC and Pt/C at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current densities. e) Comparison of ORR properties between of FexN-NC and other catalysts. f) Cyclability at various bending angles, and g) photos of cell phone charging by flexible ZAB.

performance of both catalysts is poor, it can be inferred that the proper ratio of pyrrolic-N and pyridinic-N plays a crucial role in the reaction process. Meanwhile, in order to investigate the effect of pyridinic-N and pyrrolic-N on the reaction, H3PO4 is used to block pyridinic-N in the catalyst.[\[36,37\]](#page-8-0) Since the basicity of pyrrolic-N and graphitic-N is weaker than that of pyridinic-N, only pyridinic-N will be poisoned by phosphoric acid in the catalyst. The LSV of different concentrations of H3PO4 blocking FexN-NC is shown in Figure S22 (Supporting Information). As the concentration of H3PO4 increases, the E1/2 of FexN-NC gradually moves back. After blocking FexN-NC with 5.0 M H3PO4, it can be assumed that pyridinic-N is completely poisoned, and there is no pyridinic-N present in the catalyst at this time, indicating that pyridinic-N plays an important role in improving the catalytic activity of ORR. In order to further explore the role of N functional groups in ORR, in-situ FT-IR is used to characterize the structural changes of FexN-NC before and after the H3PO4 blockade. As shown in **Figure 4**[a,b,](#page-5-0) in the absence of H3PO4 blocking, FexN-NC begins to exhibit a significant O2 absorption peak at 0.9 V, whereas it begins to appear at 0.8 V after blocking (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0), suggests that pyridinic-N is blocked, which slows down the kinetics of \*O2 <sup>−</sup> intermediate generation, and leading to the performance degradation, which further indicates that pyridinic-N plays an important role in promoting ORR performance.[\[38,39\]](#page-8-0)

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations are carried out to gain some deep insights into the better ORR catalytic performance of the FexN-NC. To understanding the active sites for ORR, three different models are constructed, including the C site of pyrrolic-N, pyridinic-N, and pure C (Figure [4d\)](#page-5-0), respectively. Figure [4e](#page-5-0) shows the Bader charge analysis of different samples, where it can be seen that more electrons in the pyrrolic-N are transferred, which accelerates the occurrence of the reaction (Figure [4f\)](#page-5-0). Generally, the d-band center is an indicator for the

<span id="page-7-0"></span>binding strength between the metal center and reactants, and the partial density of states (DOS) of Fe is displayed in Figure [4g.](#page-5-0) It is worth noting that compared to the pure C site, C site of pyrrolic-N and pyridinic-N are closer to the Fermi level, indicating that the presence of N sites enhances adsorption capacity, contributes to the enhanced O2 adsorption, and thus accelerating the occurrence of ORR.

Based on the significant ORR performance, ZABs are assembled with FexN-NC as an air electrode to evaluate its usability. The fabricated FexN-NC-based ZAB exhibits an open-circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.429 V, which is larger than that of commercial Pt/C (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-6-0). From the discharge curves, it can be seen that FexN-NC-based ZABs has a higher discharge voltage at the same current density, with a power density of 162 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 269 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is much better than the power density of 121 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 150 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> of Pt/C-based ZABs (Figure [5b\)](#page-6-0). It suggests that FexN-NC has the good catalytic activity in alkaline seawater based ZABs. The constant current discharge process at different current densities (1 to 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) indicates that the voltage plateau of FexN-NC is always greater than commercial Pt/C, proving that the FexN-NC-based ZABs possess higher durability and reversibility (Figure [5c\)](#page-6-0). As unveiled by Figure S23 (Supporting Information), at a discharge current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, FexN-NC-based ZABs also reveals a higher specific discharge capacity of 809.9 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> than Pt/C-based ZABs (761.3 mAh g<sup>−</sup>1). In order to evaluate the cycling stability of FexN-NCbased ZABs, continuous constant current discharge-charging is tested, with a stabilization time of over 400 h and a smaller charge-discharge voltage gap and round-trip efficiency. As shown in Figure [5d,](#page-6-0) after 220 h of continuous cycling, the round-trip efficiency of the FexN-NC-based ZAB decreased from 56.4% to 52.7% with the decline of only 3.7%, which is superior to the Pt/C-based ZABs (loss of 16.5%), demonstrating excellent cycling stability of the FexN-NC-based ZABs in alkaline seawater. As the radar plot (shown in Figure [5e](#page-6-0) and Table S3, Supporting Information), FexN-NC performs better than most reported catalysts in terms of ZABs. For comparison, relevant ZABs performance tests are conducted in simulated seawater electrolytes (Figure S24 and S25, Supporting Information), demonstrating great battery performance in both alkaline seawater and simulated seawater, revealing that FexN-NC can display excellent activity and corrosion resistance in the actual seawater with complex composition. Meanwhile, FexN-NC is used as the air cathode, and alkaline seawater and polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) as solid electrolytes are used to assemble quasi-solid flexible batteries. The charging and discharging cycles of the catalyst are tested from different angles. Even when the device is folded to 0° and 180°, an excellent flexible stable voltage platform is maintained (Figure [5f\)](#page-6-0). In addition, four flexible ZABs of 1.5 cm × 3 cm are connected in series to charge a smartphone (Figure [5g,](#page-6-0) Video S1, Supporting Information), which indicates that FexN-NC has excellent ORR performance and potential application prospects in ZABs.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, the mechanism of N configuration of FexN-NC to ORR activity and chlorine resistance are revealed in this work. Through H3PO4 closed in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) testing and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, in can be demonstrated the tandem effect of pyridinic-N and pyrrolic-N on ORR. Meanwhile, the low hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) yield and 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway of FexN-NC demonstrate that Ndoped carbon effectively reduces the adsorption of Cl<sup>−</sup>, which is consistent with the result of DFT. The half-wave potential (E1/2) of the ORR with FexN-NC participation reaches 0.874 V in alkaline seawater, and ZABs assembled with FexN-NC as the air cathode deliver a remarkable power density of 162 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, along with excellent long-term durability (*>*400 h). This work provides a new approach for the design of rational N component catalysts and a new strategy for the development of high-performance, high power/energy density, and durable zinc-air batteries.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by the Financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21971132 and 52072197), the Postdoctoral Innovation Project of Shandong Province (202102039), the Postdoctoral Applied Research Project of Qingdao, the Youth Innovation and Technology Foundation of Shandong Higher Education Institutions, China (2019KJC004), the Major Scientific and Technological Innovation Project of Shandong Province (2019JZZY020405), the Major Basic Research Program of Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province under Grant (ZR2020ZD09), the 111 Project of China (D20017) and the Taishan Scholar Young Talent Program (tsqn201909114).

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Author Contributions**

S.W. performed investigation, data curation, conceptualization, formal analysis, validation, and wrote the original draft. X.L. performed conceptualization, wrote and edited the review, supervision, acquired funding. H.M. performed formal analysis, data curation, conceptualization, and validation. J.Z. performed formal analysis, data curation, conceptualization, and validation. G.Z. performed supervision and validation. J.C. performed supervision and validation. Z.W. performed supervision and validation. L.W. wrote and edited the review, acquired funding, and performed supervision.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

#### **Keywords**

N configuration, oxygen reduction reaction, tandem effect, zinc-air battery

Received: January 12, 2024 Revised: March 11, 2024 Published online: April 10, 2024

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[1] X. Cai, L. Lai, J. Lin, Z. Shen, *Mater. Horiz.* **2017**, *4*, 945.
- [2] Y. Zheng, L. Michalek, Q. Liu, Y. Wu, H. Kim, P. Sayavong, W. Yu, D. Zhong, C. Zhao, Z. Yu, J. A. Chiong, H. Gong, X. Ji, D. Liu, S. Zhang, N. Prine, Z. Zhang, W. Wang, J. B. H. Tok, X. Gu, Y. Cui, J. Kang, Z. Bao, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2023**, *18*, 1175.
- [3] X. Liu, X. Liu, C. Li, B. Yang, L. Wang, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2023**, *45*, 27.
- [4] H. Zhang, M. Zhu, H. Tang, Q. Lu, T. Yang, X. Wang, B. Chen, Z. Qu, X. Wang, M. Yu, D. Karnaushenko, D. D. Karnaushenko, Y. Huang, O. G. Schmidt, K. Zhang, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *59*, 102791.
- [5] X. Zou, M. Tang, Q. Lu, Y. Wang, Z. Shao, L. An, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 386,
- [6] E. Y. Choi, D. E. Kim, S. Y. Lee, C. B. Park, C. K. Kim, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 122386.
- [7] Y. Li, Y. Ding, B. Zhang, Y. Huang, H. Qi, P. Das, L. Zhang, X. Wang, Z.-S. Wu, X. Bao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 2629.
- [8] Y. X. Zhao, J. H. Wen, P. Li, P. F. Zhang, S. N. Wang, D. C. Li, J. M. Dou, Y. W. Li, H. Y. Ma, L. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202216950
- [9] Y. Chen, S. Zhang, J. Chung-Yen Jung, J. Zhang, *Prog. Energy Combust. Sci.* **2023**, *98*, 101101.
- [10] M. Du, D. Li, S. Liu, J. Yan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301527.
- [11] S. Ünsal, R. Girod, C. Appel, D. Karpov, M. Mermoux, F. Maillard, V. A. Saveleva, V. Tileli, T. J. Schmidt, J. Herranz, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 7845.
- [12] Z. Yang, Y. Chen, S. Zhang, J. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2215185.
- [13] H. Liu, J. Li, J. Arbiol, B. Yang, P. Tang, *EcoEnergy* **2023**, *1*, 154.
- [14] W. Wang, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, S. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 10126.
- [15] Y. Wang, T. Yang, X. Fan, Z. Bao, A. Tayal, H. Tan, M. Shi, Z. Liang, W. Zhang, H. Lin, R. Cao, Z. Huang, H. Zheng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *63*, e202313034.
- [16] R. Ma, X. Cui, X. Xu, Y. Wang, G. Xiang, L. Gao, Z. Lin, Y. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2023**, *108*, 108179.
- [17] X. Yan, D. Liu, P. Guo, Y. He, X. Wang, Z. Li, H. Pan, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210975.
- [18] R. Gan, Y. Song, C. Ma, J. Shi, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2023**, *327*, 122443.
- [19] S. Wu, X. Liu, H. Mao, T. Cui, B. Li, G. Zhou, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2023**, *330*, 122634.
- [20] J. Cai, H. Zhang, L. Zhang, Y. Xiong, T. Ouyang, Z. Q. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2303488.
- [21] S. Chandrasekaran, R. Hu, L. Yao, L. Sui, Y. Liu, A. Abdelkader, Y. Li, X. Ren, L. Deng, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 48.

- [22] X. Wang, J. Zhang, P. Wang, L. Li, H. Wang, D. Sun, Y. Li, Y. Tang, X. F. Lu, Y. Wang, G. Fu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 5500.
- [23] J. Lu, Q. Lu, Y. Guo, X. Chen, Z. Yin, Y. Cao, Y. Guo, J. Zhang, H. Wang, Y. Wang, X. Zheng, K. I. Ozoemena, Y. Deng, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2024**, *65*, 103093.
- [24] H. Mao, X. Liu, S. Wu, G. Sun, G. Zhou, J. Chi, L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2302251.
- [25] Q. Tang, L. Bai, C. Zhang, R. Meng, L. Wang, C. Geng, Y. Guo, F. Wang, Y. Liu, G. Song, G. Ling, H. Sun, Z. Weng, Q.-H. Yang, *Sci. Bull.* **2023**, *68*, 3172.
- [26] Z. Jiang, X. Liu, X.-Z. Liu, S. Huang, Y. Liu, Z.-C. Yao, Y. Zhang, Q.-H. Zhang, L. Gu, L.-R. Zheng, L. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Fan, T. Tang, Z. Zhuang, J.-S. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1822.
- [27] F. Kong, M. Wang, Y. Huang, G. Meng, M. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, C. Chen, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *54*, 533.
- [28] X. Feng, G. Chen, Z. Cui, R. Qin, W. Jiao, Z. Huang, Z. Shang, C. Ma, X. Zheng, Y. Han, W. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *63*, e202316314
- [29] G. Zhou, G. Liu, X. Liu, Q. Yu, H. Mao, Z. Xiao, L. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2107608.
- [30] W. Peng, J. Liu, X. Liu, L. Wang, L. Yin, H. Tan, F. Hou, J. Liang, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 4430.
- [31] M. Shen, J. Liu, J. Li, C. Duan, C. Xiong, W. Zhao, L. Dai, Q. Wang, H. Yang, Y. Ni, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *59*, 102790.
- [32] X. Xu, X. Wang, S. Huo, X. Liu, X. Ma, M. Liu, J. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *36*, 2306844.
- [33] X. Wang, X. Zhou, C. Li, H. Yao, C. Zhang, J. Zhou, R. Xu, L. Chu, H. Wang, M. Gu, H. Jiang, M. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204021.
- [34] J. Yu, B.-Q. Li, C.-X. Zhao, Q. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3253.
- [35] Y. Zhan, Z.-B. Ding, F. He, X. Lv, W.-F. Wu, B. Lei, Y. Liu, X. Yan, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *443*, 136456.
- [36] W. Yu, H. Huang, Y. Qin, D. Zhang, Y. Zhang, K. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200110.
- [37] D. Zhao, K. Sun, W. C. Cheong, L. Zheng, C. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu, Y. Pan, Z. Zhuang, B. Hu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *59*, 8982.
- [38] M. Li, H. Zhu, Q. Yuan, T. Li, M. Wang, P. Zhang, Y. Zhao, D. Qin, W. Guo, B. Liu, X. Yang, Y. Liu, Y. Pan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *33*, 2210867.
- [39] S. Mondal, D. Bagchi, M. Riyaz, S. Sarkar, A. K. Singh, C. P. Vinod, S. C. Peter, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 11859.