---
source: Wu 等 - 2025 - Effect of Iron‐Sulfur Bond on Tailoring the Electron Structure in Dual‐Atomic Iron Sites for Enhance.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 102.777s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:38:00.411338Z
---

www.small-methods.com

# Effect of Iron-Sulfur Bond on Tailoring the Electron Structure in Dual-Atomic Iron Sites for Enhanced Oxygen Reduction Reaction

Lingmin Wu, Chunfeng Shao, Liming Wang, and Baitao Li\*

In oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), increasing metal loading in dual-atomic catalyst easily leads to metal aggregation, resulting in the formation of clusters or nanoparticles. Herein, a new approach involving sulfur incorporation is developed to preserve the dual-atomic structure and regulate the electrons of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC dual atomic catalyst, without resorting to simply increasing metal loading. The optimized Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst with Fe—S bond demonstrated exceptional ORR activity in pH-universal electrolytes, boosting the most positive  $E_{1/2}$  values (0.902 V in alkaline, 0.689 V in neutral and 0.781 V in acidic solution). Theoretical study revealed that Fe2-S/NC catalyst with Fe-S bond and Fe2-NC/S catalyst with thiophene-like sulfur both can decrease the d-band center of Fe sites compared to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC without sulfur, and weaken the adsorption with OH\* intermediate. In the case of Fe-S bond, this decline is more notable. The predicted ORR performance ranked in the sequence of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC > Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S > Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC. The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-based Zn-Air battery (ZAB) and microbial fuel cell (MFC) exhibited remarkable power density (317.1 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> for ZAB, 2074  $\pm$  66 mW m<sup>-2</sup> for MFC) with prominent stability. This work innovatively highlighted the role of Fe-S bond in regulating the electron structure of dual-atomic Fe2-NC catalyst aiming to the excellent ORR performance.

#### 1. Introduction

The electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is crucial role in renewable energy devices such as metal-air batteries and fuel cells. [1] The mainstream platinum (Pt)-based catalysts have addressed the sluggish kinetic process and showed high activity for ORR. However, the high-cost and unsatisfactory

L. Wu, L. Wang, B. Li
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Fuel Cell Technology
School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering
South China University of Technology
Guangzhou 510640, China
E-mail: btli@scut.edu.cn

C. Shac

Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Pollutant Sensitive Materials and Environmental Remediation
Department of Materials Science and Engineering

Huaibei 235000, China

(D)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202501359

DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202501359

durability are significant bottlenecks in commercial applications.[2,3] The exploration of economical and efficient nonplatinum catalyst is urgently needed. Among them, iron/nitrogen unit on carbon material, such as Fe-N<sub>x</sub>,<sup>[4,5]</sup> Fe<sub>3</sub>C<sup>[6]</sup> and Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC,<sup>[7]</sup> have been hailed as the most promising alternative for Pt/C. Their intrinsic activity is highly related to the electronic structure of active sites. The alteration of these active sites results in a modification of their electron milieu. Due to the fact that metal centers usually act as binding sites for oxygen species (O2, \*OOH, \*O and \*OH), controllable regulation of the electronic structure of Fe sites can optimize the interaction between intermediates and active sites, thereby reducing the energy barrier and improving ORR activity. In pursuit of this goal, a variety of catalyst structure regulation at atomic level have been extensively employed to tailor the surface properties of these Fe-N-C materials.

Current strategies for modulating the electronic properties of Fe-sites can be achieved by virtue of incorporation of heteroatoms, including nonmetal (e.g. P, [8] S, [9] Cl and Br) as well as metals (e.g. Co, [10,11] Ni, [12] Mn[13,14] and Cu<sup>[15]</sup>), or by special etching methods that create carbon defects. Notably sulfur, with a relatively large atomic radium (104 pm) and lower electronegative (2.53) than N atom (70 pm, 3.04), [16] is easily doped into carbon framework, thus influencing the electronic density of metal sites.<sup>[17]</sup> Sulfur doped FeN<sub>4</sub> single-atom catalysts have shown great potential in boosting ORR activity by optimizing the *d*-band center, [18] electron location [19] or spin state of Fe-sites,<sup>[20]</sup> either through directly coordinated or interactions beyond the first coordinated shell. In addition, thiophene sulfur and oxidized sulfur both can act as electron donor for Fe-N4 to reduce the adsorption for intermediate, resulting in great ORR performance enhancement.[21,22] Compared to Fe single atom, Fe-Fe dual-atomic sites exhibited better ORR activation, because when O<sub>2</sub> binds to two adjacent Fe atom, more electrons can be donated into the empty orbitals of O<sub>2</sub>. [23] Additionally, dual Fe sites induce a downward shift of the d-band center, benefiting for the desorption of OH\* which is an important step in enhancing overall ORR performance.<sup>[7]</sup> Therefore, the strategy of

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. Synthesis procedure a), TEM images in different magnifications b,c) and aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM image d) of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst.

introducing sulfur into Fe-Fe dual-atomic site is expected to further regulate the electronic structure of metal centers, thereby promoting the ORR activity. In the reported Fe<sub>2</sub>N<sub>6</sub>-S catalyst, thiophene-like sulfur (C-S-C) was incorporated into carbon framework.[24] This localized electronic engineering of sulfur in Fe-Fe sites improved the formation of OOH\*, thus accelerating the ORR process. Furthermore, in the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S<sub>1</sub>N<sub>5</sub>/SNC catalyst, the direct Fe-S coordination weakened the adsorption of OH\* compared to Fe-N<sub>4</sub> single atomic site.<sup>[25]</sup> Although both studies have demonstrated that sulfur could improve the ORR performance of Fe-Fe dual-atomic catalyst, the jury is still out on which type of modification is more advantageous. Therefore, constructing sulfur modified Fe-Fe diatomic catalysts with the aforementioned different coordination types (C-S-C or Fe-S), evaluating their ORR performance and elucidating the underlying mechanisms are crucial for the expansion and complementation of research on S, Fe, N tri-doped carbon-based electrocatalysts.

Herein, a novel S coordinated diatomic Fe center structure (SN2-Fe-Fe-N2S) was synthesized by thermal activation strategy with thiosemicarbazide as sulfur precursor. Diatomic Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC catalyst was synthesized with Prussian blue analogue (PBA) as metal source and then polymerized with chitosan, as reported in our previous work.<sup>[26]</sup> The newly constructed Fe-S bond in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst was verified by X-ray photoelectronic spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (XAS). Theoretical calculation revealed that sulfur doped into Fe-Fe dual atoms in the form of Fe-S bond and thiophene-like sulfur (C-S-C), both can reduce the *d*-band center of Fe sites, weakening the interaction between Fe sites and OH\* intermediate. The predicted ORR activity ranked in the sequence of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC (Fe–S bond) >  $Fe_2$ -NC/S (thiophene-like sulfur) >  $Fe_2$ -NC, which was consistence with the experimental results. Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 exhibited outstanding  $E_{1/2}$  and stability both in alkaline (0.902 V) and neutral (0.689 V) electrolyte, exceeding those of Pt/C catalyst, and it was comparable with Pt/C in acidic solution (0.781 V). Moreover, when it was employed as air electrode, both Zn-Air battery (ZAB) and microbial fuel cell (MFC) showed preeminent power density (317.1 mW cm $^{-2}$  for ZAB, 2074  $\pm$  66 mW m $^{-2}$  for MFC) as well as excellent durability.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

# 2.1. Formation and Determination of Fe-S Sites in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x Catalysts

Sulfur modified dual atom Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC catalyst (Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x) was designed by thermal activation method. The detailed synthesized process was illustrated in Figure 1a, where thiosemicarbazide (CH<sub>5</sub>N<sub>2</sub>S) was used as sulfur precursor to chelate with Fe ions. [27] The detailed experimental procedures were provided in the supporting information. The dual atom Fe2-NC precursor was constructed by polymerizing Prussian blue analogue (PBA).<sup>[26]</sup> Then, the obtained Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC and thiosemicarbazide were mixed in a specific mass ratio. After ball milling and carbonization, sulfur was introduced into diatomic Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC catalyst, denoted as Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalyst (x = 2, 4, 6, 8, mass ratio of thiosemicarbazide to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC). After sulfur doping, there was no obvious change in the content of Fe in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x, the values determined by ICP-OES being 0.789, 0.828, 0.778 and 0.743 wt.%, respectively, close to that of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (0.738 wt%). On the other hand, the actual sulfur content was 0.606, 0.727, 0.751 and 0.781 wt.% respectively, due to the decomposition of partial CH<sub>5</sub>N<sub>3</sub>S into gas molecules, such as  $NH_3$ ,  $H_2S$  and  $N_2$  during the pyrolysis. As shown in Figure 1b, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 contained three-dimensional pore structure derived from cubic PBA precursor. Moreover, high-resolution TEM image of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 revealed the absence of any metal www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-methods.com

nanoparticles (Figure 1b,c), while the aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM image displayed bright paired dots (yellow circle in Figure 1d), indicating the presence of a stable dual atomic structure in the catalyst even after the introduction of sulfur through thermal activation at 900 °C.<sup>[28]</sup> Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) (Figure S1, Supporting Information) revealed the homogeneous distribution of C, N, Fe and S in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst. Furthermore, no obvious difference in morphology were observed regardless of the sulfur dosage (Figure S2, Supporting Information).

The crystal structure of synthesized catalysts was analyzed using XRD patterns (Figure S3a, Supporting Information). The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts exhibited two peaks at 26.6° and 43.5°, similar to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, which corresponded to the (1 1 1) and (0 1 0) plane of graphite (JCPDS 75-2078).[29] No diffraction peaks related to crystalline iron species were observed, illustrating that the crystallinity remained unchanged after sulfur doping, irrespective of sulfur content.[30] However, the effect of sulfur doping could be detected in Raman spectra. As shown in Figure \$3b (Supporting Information), compared to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, the peak area ratio  $(I_D/I_C)$  of defective carbon (1341 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and graphitic carbon (1593 cm<sup>-1</sup>) in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x increased from 1.88 to 2.06 with an increase in sulfur dosage, indicating a higher presence of defects in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalyst.[31] The possible explanation is that the sulfur successfully doped into carbon framework to form some defects,<sup>[20]</sup> which can change the electronic structure of catalyst and then improve the ORR performance.<sup>[32]</sup> On the other hand, graphitic carbon can enhance the electrical conductivity.[33] Thus, the defects and graphitization should be balanced in a catalyst for the outstanding performance.

To investigate the role of S doping in the reconstruction of porous structure, N<sub>2</sub> physisorption measurement was carried out (Figure S3c, Supporting Information). All catalyst displayed similar type IV isotherms with H3 hysteresis, [34] suggesting the presence of abundant mesopores that were favorable for enhancing mass transfer.[35] Notably, after a small amount of sulfur was introduced, the specific surface area of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-2 (1440 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) was higher than Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (1358 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), due to the increased microporous area (Table S1, Supporting Information). However, further increasing the sulfur content resulted in a decreased surface area in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-4 (1350 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 (1256 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-8 (1168 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>). The possible reason was that the excessive sulfur might block a few porous structures. Moreover, the pore size distribution of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x showed a clear bulge at  $\approx$ 1.2 nm, which differed from that of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC catalyst (Figure S3d, Supporting Information). This indicated that the introduction of sulfur by the decomposition of thiosemicarbazide (CH<sub>5</sub>N<sub>3</sub>S) at high temperature could etch the Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC precursor and form new pore structure. As a result, the average pore size of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x was ≈4.30 nm, larger than that of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (3.20 nm) (Table S1, Supporting Information). The larger aperture is beneficial to promoting the exposure of active sites and facilitating mass transfer. [36]

The detailed surface composition and valence states were analyzed by X-ray photoelectronic spectroscopy (XPS). The elemental content on catalyst surface was shown in Table S2 (Supporting Information), where the amount of active metal Fe was similar (0.30–0.39 at.%). Additionally, the Fe 2p spectrum of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 could be deconvoluted to two spin-orbit doublets (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The peak of Fe  $2p_{3/2}$  appeared at

710.9 eV, while Fe  $2p_{1/2}$  at 724.1 eV with the satellite peaks at 718.5 and 730.3 eV, indicating the presence of Fe<sup>2+</sup>.<sup>[37]</sup> On the other hand, Fe<sup>3+</sup> showed a doublet with Fe  $2p_{3/2}$  at 713.8 eV, and Fe  $2p_{1/2}$  at 726.7 eV.<sup>[38]</sup> When compared to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (e.g. the peak of Fe<sup>2+</sup> in Fe  $2p_{3/2}$  at 710.2 eV), all peaks in Fe 2p spectra of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts shifted toward higher binging energy by  $\approx$ 0.7 eV, manifesting an higher oxidation state of Fe after sulfur introduction, which was consistent with the previous result.<sup>[39]</sup>

The fitted N 1s spectra of resultant catalysts were displayed in Figure S5 (Supporting Information), revealing the presence of five nitrogen species, namely pyridinic N (398.1 eV), Fe-N (398.8 eV), pyrrolic N (399.9 eV), graphitic N (400.8 eV) and oxidized N (402.2 eV). [40-42] Among them, Fe-N was considered as the active species for ORR performance, while pyridinic N played the role of electron donor to adjust the Fermi level of active sites, and graphitic N could enhance the conductivity and electron transfer favorable for ORR reaction.<sup>[43]</sup> Notably, the content of Fe-N in Fe2-S/NC-2 was 18.8%, which was close to that in Fe2-NC (18.2%) without S introduction (Table S2, Supporting Information). However, increasing the mass of sulfur decreased the content of Fe-N to 16.8%, 16.5% and 14.5% for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-4, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-8 respectively, suggesting that sulfur was likely to replace the N atoms to coordinate with Fe site. For this very reason, the content of N (4.62 at.%) on the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-8 surface was lower than that on other catalysts (Table S2, Supporting Information).

The high-resolution S 2p spectra of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-2 exhibited two peaks at 163.6, 164.5 eV corresponding to the S  $2p_{3/2}$  and S  $2p_{1/2}$ components in thiophene-like sulfur (C-S-C). The other peak at 168.1 eV was related to the oxidized sulfur (C-SO<sub>x</sub>) (Figure S6a, Supporting Information). [44] Both thiophene S and oxidized S can act as an electron donator to regulate the electronic distribution of metal center, resulting in weakening the adsorption of ORR intermediates to improve the ORR performance.<sup>[21]</sup> Moreover, with increasing the sulfur introduction, the content of S species also added up from 0.57 at.% to 0.79 at.% (Figure S6e, Supporting Information). Remarkably, a new peak at 161.9 eV was observed in Fe2-S/NC-4, Fe2-S/NC-6 and Fe2-S/NC-8 catalysts, which could be assigned to the Fe—S bond. [39] The appearance of this peak was in concert with the decrease in Fe-N content in these catalysts. The direct coordination between S and Fe could break the inherent symmetry of Fe-N<sub>4</sub>, leading to a declined adsorption of ORR intermediates at Fe-N site, which is beneficial for improving the ORR performance.<sup>[45,46]</sup>

The fine electronic structure and coordination environment of metal center in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst were investigated by X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (XAS), employing the Fe foil, FePc, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, FeO and FeS as references. As shown in Fe K-edge X-ray adsorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra (**Figure 2a**), the energy absorption threshold of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was higher than that of FeO and FeS, but lower than the energy in Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, indicating the average valence state of Fe in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was between +2 and +3.<sup>[47]</sup> Additionally, the Fourier transform extended X-ray adsorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) (Figure 2b) indicated the first dominant peak of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 at 1.5 Å, which was ascribed to Fe-N/O coordination.<sup>[48]</sup> Another bulge at 1.9 Å, similar to the Fe-S scattering path in FeS reference, was attributed to Fe—S bond,<sup>[49]</sup> and it was corresponded to the Fe-S linkage in

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Fe K-edge XANES spectra a), FT-EXAFS spectra b), wavelet transforms analysis c) and EXAFS fitting spectra in R space d) and k space e) of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst.

S 2p spectra (Figure S6c, Supporting Information). This Fe-S route was not obvious due to its overlap with Fe-N peak. To confirm the authentic existence of this Fe—S bond, the EXAFS spectra was fitted in R space and k space without considering the Fe-S linkage (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Obviously, this fitting deviated largely from the raw data. In Figure 2b, the secondary peak at 2.3 Å belonging to Fe-Fe bond was consistent with HAADF-STEM result (Figure 1d). The wavelet transforms contour plots (Figure 2c) revealed that Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 showed a maximum intensity at 4.4 Å<sup>-1</sup>, which was quite different from Fe-O peak (3.6  $\text{Å}^{-1}$ ) in Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, but close to the combination of Fe-S peak (4.3 Å<sup>-1</sup>) in FeS and Fe-N peak (5.1 Å<sup>-1</sup>) in FePc. [50] No obvious Fe-Fe peak (7.5  $\text{Å}^{-1}$ ) in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 could be detected compared to Fe-foil and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, due to highly dispersed diatomic sites. Furthermore, EXAFS fitting analysis (Figure 2d,e; Table S3, Supporting Information) showed that the coordination number of S, N and Fe around Fe center was 0.98, 2.30 and 0.98, respectively. The fine structure ( $Fe_2N_4S_2$ ) of  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-6 was displayed in the inset in Figure 2d. The Fe-Fe diatomic sites were stabilized in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst after introducing sulfur, whereas two S atoms were directly coordinated with Fe center by replacing N in Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC to form Fe-S local structure.

In general, in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts, sulfur was successfully introduced into dual-atomic Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC precursor, and the morphology, crystalline and dual atomic structure remained unchanged. While the defect, average pore size and binding energy of Fe all increased compared to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC. More importantly, the new Fe—S bond was confirmed in XPS and XAS results. The novel "Fe<sub>2</sub>N<sub>4</sub>S<sub>2</sub>" structure could break the symmetric structure in Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, showing great potential in improving the ORR performance.

# 2.2. Electrochemical Measurement to Evaluate ORR Activity of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x Catalysts

The ORR performance of as-synthesized catalysts was evaluated in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH. As revealed by linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm (Figure 3a), the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts all showed more positive half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  than Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (0.857 V), illustrating the sulfur doping could significantly enhance ORR activity. The ORR activity of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x with different S contents exhibited an initial increase then decrease (Figure 3b). When x was 6, the activity reached the summit. The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst displayed the most positive  $E_{1/2}$  (0.902 V) and the highest onset potential ( $E_{onset}$ , 1.005 V), which surpassed commercial Pt/C ( $E_{\text{onset}}$ , 0.980 V;  $E_{1/2}$ , 0.851 V) (Figure 3a; Table S4, Supporting Information). When Pt/C was tested with the same loading (0.408 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) as the prepared catalysts, its  $E_{\text{onset}}$  and  $E_{1/2}$  went to 0.973 and 0.871 V, still lower than Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Consistent with most reported Pt/C catalysts,[51-53] unless otherwise stated, its loading was used as 0.204 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> in the following electrochemical tests. Compared to previously reported sulfur-doped Fe-NC catalysts, Fe2-S/NC-6 demonstrated a notably higher level of advancement as shown in Table S5 (Supporting Information). The corresponding Tafel slope of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x exhibited a contrary trend, with Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 being the lowest ( $\approx$  56.0 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), inferior to Pt/C (71.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (66.0 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ),  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-2 (64.8 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ),  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-4 (62.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-8 (59.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 3c), manifesting the fastest kinetic for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6.<sup>[54]</sup> Furthermore, the favorable ORR kinetics of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was<sup>[51]</sup> evidenced by kinetic current density ( $I_k$ ) at 0.85 and 0.80 V, calculated using the

2366968, 2025, 11, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smd.202501.359 by University O' Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) and the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Crea

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. Electrocatalytic ORR performance in 0.1 M KOH solution: LSV curves at 1600 rpm a), half-wave potential and  $J_k$  b), Tafel plot c), peroxide yields and electrode transfer number f) and the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm cl}$ ) g) of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x, Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC and Pt/C. LSV curves at different rotation speeds d), corresponding *K-L* plots e), stability test h) and chronoamperometry measurement i) of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6.

Koutecky-Levich (*K-L*) equation. As demonstrated in Figure 3b, the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 displayed the highest  $J_k$  of 33.0 and 13.7 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> among all the investigated catalysts at 0.80 and 0.85 V, respectively, which were 3.3 and 3.5 times that of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC.

The ORR pathway was studied by LSV at various rotation speeds from 625 to 2025 rpm (Figure 3d). As displayed in Figure 3e, the Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 showed excellent linearity at different potentials, illustrating the similar electron transfer number during the ORR process. The average electron transfer number of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was 3.99 ( $\approx$  4.0), similar to that of Pt/C (Figure S9, Supporting Information), suggesting the four-electron pathway for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6.<sup>[55]</sup> This result was further verified using the Rotating Ring-disc Electrode (RRDE) measurement with monitoring the yield of peroxide species (H2O2). As shown in Figure 3f, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was below 4% in the potential regions of 0.2-0.8 V, corresponding to the electron transfer number (n) of 3.93-3.98 (Table S6, Supporting Information), which was similar to Pt/C catalyst (3.93–3.94). Other sulfur-modified catalysts also showed low H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield (< 6%) and higher n (3.89–3.94) during the ORR process, preceding the Fe<sub>2</sub>-

NC catalyst (3.71–3.96). This result illustrated that the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts followed the favorable 4e<sup>-</sup> mechanism with higher catalytic efficiency.<sup>[56]</sup>

To understand the origin of the outstanding ORR performance of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalyst, the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was investigated by the double-layer capacity ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) (Figures 3g; S10, Supporting Information). The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 displayed the highest  $C_{\rm dl}$  value (52.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), higher than Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-2 (31.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-4 (39.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-8 (28.9 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), manifesting abundant active sites dominating the ORR process. [57] Although the  $C_{\rm dl}$  values of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-2 and Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-8 were lower than that of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (35.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), they exhibited better ORR performance due to the sulfur doping.

Moreover, the long-time durability of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was evaluated by accelerated durability test (ADT) in 0.1 M KOH solution. As displayed in the Figure 3h (inset), the cyclic voltammogram (CV) after 8000 cycles of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 nearly overlapped with the initial curve, and no obvious decay in  $E_{1/2}$  was observed. Furthermore, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 remained the porous structure and no metal aggregation was found after cycling test

2366968, 2025, 11, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smd.202501.359 by University O' Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensense are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errms-and-conditions) and the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License are governed by the applicable Crea

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrocatalytic ORR performance in 0.05 M PBS and 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4$  solutions: LSV curves at 1600 rpm a,d), Tafel plot b,e), peroxide yields and electrode transfer number n c,f) and half-wave potential  $E_{1/2}$  g) of  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-x,  $Fe_2$ -NC and Pt/C catalysts. Stability test in 0.05 M PBS h) and 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4$  i) of  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-x0 catalysts.

(Figure S11, Supporting Information), indicating its superior structure stability in alkaline solution. In the chronoamperometry measurement (Figure 3i), the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 maintained 96.2% of its initial current over a period of 50 000 s ( $\approx$ 13.9 h), excelling over commercial Pt/C catalyst (88.0%) in terms of stability. Moreover, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst displayed remarkable resistance to methanol (Figure S12, Supporting Information), with its current density remaining unchanged compared to a significant drop for Pt/C when the methanol was introduced.

Similarly, the ORR performance also was tested in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.05 M PBS solution. In neutral solution,  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-6 performed excellent  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.689 V (**Figure 4a**; Table S4, Supporting Information) and fast kinetic with Tafel slope of 68.9 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 4b), which was superior to other S doped FeNC catalysts (Table S7, Supporting Information). On the other hand, all  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-x catalysts exhibited  $H_2O_2$  yield less than 2.5% and the corresponding electron transfer number of 3.87–3.99 (Figure 4c; Table S6, Supporting Information), manifesting the efficient four-electron mechanism for  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-x catalyst in 0.05 M PBS.

Notably, the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst also exhibited the most positive  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.781V in more challenging acidic solution (Figure 4d). Though this value was slightly lower than Pt/C catalyst (0.802 V) (Table S4, Supporting Information), the Tafel slope was lower for  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-6 (57.4 vs 83.0 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) (Figure 4e), indicating the favorable ORR performance for Fe2-S/NC-6. In addition, all the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts exhibited low H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield (Figure 4f) and the corresponding electron transfer number close to 4 (Table S6, Supporting Information), suggesting the efficient four-electron mechanism for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution. Similar to its excellent performance in the alkaline solution, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 equally performed well in neutral and acidic solutions (Figure 4g). Moreover, the good durability of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was proved by overlapped CV curves (inset in Figure 4h) and no obvious attenuation on  $E_{1/2}$  (4 mV) after 8000 cycles in neutral solution (Figure 4h). The stability was further investigated by chronoamperometry measurement. The current of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 decreased to 88.0% of initial after 50000 s, which was higher than that of Pt/C (84.8%) (Figure S13a, Supporting Information). While in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution, its stability was slightly

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. Free energy diagram a), projected density of states (PDOS) of Fe-3d orbital b) and differential charge density c-e) of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC, Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S and Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC after \*OH adsorbed. Charge depletion and accumulation are respectively colored in blue and yellow in (c-e).

inferior, with 29 mV decay on  $E_{1/2}$  (Figure 4i) and 36.5% decay on current (Figure S13b, Supporting Information). This result was comparable to the previous report on Fe<sub>2</sub>-S<sub>1</sub>N<sub>5</sub>/SNC catalyst, which decreased by 26 mV in  $E_{1/2}$  after merely 5000 cycles in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solution.<sup>[58]</sup>

## 2.3. Role of S Doping in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC Catalyst Investigated by DFT Study

Density functional theory (DFT) calculation was used to further reveal the functionality of sulfur in the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC- $\alpha$  catalysts. In the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC catalyst, there were four possible models when each metal coordinating with one sulfur atom (Figure S14a, Supporting Information). In the thermodynamic calculation, the negative value indicates a thermodynamic spontaneity. The more negative, the easier for this spontaneous process to occur. Certainly, such formed compound is with the higher thermal stability and is more stable. According to the formation energy of these models (Figure S14b, Supporting Information), model 4 was more thermodynamically stable than other three, [13,59] with the lowest formation energy (-0.830 eV). Therefore, this model was chosen for further simulations.

According to XPS result that the Fe—S bond was absent in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-2 catalyst (Figure S6a, Supporting Information), the Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S model (Figure S15a, Supporting Information) was thus designed to mimic the catalyst in which sulfur was doped into the carbon substrate yet without coordinating with Fe atoms. Compared with two configurations with Sulphur insertion (Figure S15c, Supporting Information), Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC with the most negative energy (–0.872 eV) was easier to form and more stable. This result further mirrored the difficulty and challenge for sulfur dop-

ing in the Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC structure. However, once the preparation process is successful and valid, introducing sulfur in the form of Fe—S bond is a more effective and feasible strategy, proved by its more negative formation energy (-0.830 eV) than Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S without Fe—S bond (-0.735 eV).

Moreover, it was generally accepted that OH\* as a modification ligand can spontaneously be adsorbed onto the Fe sites of catalysts in alkaline electrolyte.<sup>[60]</sup> Therefore, the structures of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC, and Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC structures were modified with OH\* in the subsequent studies (Figure \$16, Supporting Information). The corresponding optimized adsorption models for four oxygen intermediate during the ORR process were exhibited in Figure \$17 (Supporting Information). As shown in free energy of diagram (Figure 5a), the Gibbs free energy step revealed a downward trend at U = 0 V, indicating that each elementary step in ORR reaction occurred spontaneously (Table S8, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the overpotential is a crucial parameter for evaluating the catalytic performance, and can be calculated by the free energy of the rate-determining step (RDS) at U = 1.23 V. The RDS for S-free Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC was the desorption of \*OH, accompanied by an overpotential of 0.56 V (blue line in Figure 5a). When the sulfur was incorporated in the form of either thiophene-like structures (C-S-C) or Fe-S bond, the RDS changed from the desorption of \*OH to the protonation of \*O to \*OH (\*O +  $H_2O$  +  $e^- \rightarrow *OH$  +  $OH^-$ ) in Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S (green line in Figure 5a) and in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC (red line in Figure 5a). Meanwhile the overpotential of both catalysts reduced, with corresponding value of 0.52 and 0.44 V respectively. The ORR performance ranked in the order of  $Fe_2$ -S/NC >  $Fe_2$ - $NC/S > Fe_2$ -NC. Obviously, the sulfur doped into dual atomic Fe-Fe catalyst can promote the ORR catalytic reaction, importantly, sulfur directly coordinated with Fe atom (e.g. Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC) can

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 6. Performance of Zn-Air batteries with  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-6,  $Fe_2$ -NC and Pt/C as catalysts: schematic of the assembled Zn-Air battery a), open circuit voltage (OCV) and a red LED lightened by two Zn-Air batteries with  $Fe_2$ -S/NC-6 as catalyst in series (inset) b), polarization and power density plots c), discharge curves at various current densities d), discharge and charge curves at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> e).

further exhibit superiority compared to the thiophene-like sulfur (e. g.  $Fe_2$ -NC/S).

Furthermore, the *d*-band theory that a lower *d*-band center corresponds to weaker adsorption was employed to explain the influence of S atoms on the intermediate adsorption. The d-band center of Fe2-S/NC and Fe2-NC/S downshifted from -0.01 eV in Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC to -0.73 eV and -0.27 eV (Figure 5b), respectively, indicating a reduced bond stability. It implied that the affinity between iron sites and adsorbates were weakened, which was caused by partial electrons filling into the antibonding orbitals of the iron atom.[14] The differential charge density distribution (Figure 5c-e) and Bader charge analysis (Table S9, Supporting Information) further confirmed this relation. Although the average increased electron in N atoms for three models were similar (1.15-1.17 e<sup>-</sup>), small amount of lost electrons in S atom happened in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC (0.15 e<sup>-</sup>) (Table S9, Supporting Information), yielding the slightly negative Fe center for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC. Thus, more charge accumulation (yellow) was observed on the Fe atoms in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC (Figure 5c), compared to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S (Figure 5d) and Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (Figure 5e). In particular, the electron loss on Fe atom was  $0.98 e^-$  for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC, smaller than that for Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S (1.15  $e^-$ ) and Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (1.19 e<sup>-</sup>) (Table S9, Supporting Information), while less electrons were transferred from Fe to \*OH in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC (1.08 e-), indicating the attenuated adsorption of intermediates after formation of Fe-S bond.

In summary, sulfur doped into Fe-Fe dual atoms greatly decreased the *d*-band center of Fe sites, resulting in the weakened interaction between active sites and adsorbates. Furthermore, when the sulfur atoms were directly coordinated with Fe site, the improvement was more notable than thiophene-like sulfur.

# 2.4. Application of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 Catalyst in Zn-Air Battery and Microbial Fuel Cell

To highlight the role of sulfur in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst in renewable energy devices, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6, Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC and Pt/C as the cathodic catalysts were individually assembled into Zn-Air batteries with 6 M KOH as the electrolyte and Zn powder as the anode (Figure **6a**). The constructed batteries were named as Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB, Fe<sub>2</sub>-/NC-ZAB and Pt/C-ZAB. As shown in Figure 6b, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB performed an outstanding open circuit voltage (OCV) of 1.51 V, which was 90 and 30 mV higher than that of Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC-ZAB (1.42 V) and Pt/C-ZAB (1.48 V). Two batteries with Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 in a series could meet the voltage of a light-emitting diode (LED) and lit up it (inset in Figure 6b). The polarization and power density plots (Figure 6c) exhibited a peak power density of 317.1 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> in Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB, which was higher than that in Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC-ZAB (201.8 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C-ZAB (271.3 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>), illustrating the sulfur-doped Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 greatly promoted the effectiveness of Zn-Air battery. Comparing to the previous reported sulfur-doped Fe-NC catalysts, the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst also showed a great advantage in ZAB (Table S5, Supporting Information). Not only the power density, the multi-current steps test also revealed the superiority of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6. As shown in Figure 6d, the voltage of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB was higher than that of Fe2-NC-ZAB at any current density. The stability of catalyst was tested using galvanostatic discharge at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB remained 98.2% of initial discharge voltage (1.36 V) after 80000 s (>22 h), outperforming Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC-ZAB (96.3%) (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Furthermore, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB kept as narrow as voltage (0.57 V)

Figure 7. Performance of MFCs with Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6, Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, and Pt/C as catalysts: schematic of single chamber MFC a), polarization curves and power density curves b), voltage output of MFC with 1000  $\Omega$  of external resistance c), and COD removal and coulombic efficiency (CE) d).

with higher round-trip efficiency (69.5%) at the initial charge and discharge at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ , demonstrating the great advantage in the practical application (Figure 6e). Over 40 h of continuous charge and discharge (240 cycles), the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-ZAB exhibited no obvious drop in voltage and remained 58.5% of round-trip efficiency, while Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC-ZAB dramatically decreased at 5 h, suggesting an excellent stability of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst for ZAB. Hence, the Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst can be successfully deployed for fuel-cell application in a ZAB setup.

Similarly, single chamber microbial fuel cells (MFC) operated in neutral solution were assembled with Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6, Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, and the benchmark Pt/C as cathodic catalysts and were named as Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-MFC, Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC-MFC and Pt/C-MFC, respectively. The schematic diagram of MFC was shown in Figure 7a, organic matter was oxidized to CO2 at the anode, producing electrons. In the cathode, oxygen molecules gained the electrons and were reduced to water. During the process, the sewage was treated meanwhile generating electricity.[61] All assembled MFCs used the same sewage medium to culture the bacteria in order to minimize the influence of anode on the whole cell. As expected, in Figure S19a (Supporting Information), the anodic polarization curves were almost consistent. This made the variation in MFC performance mainly attributed to the different activities of the cathode. The cathodic polarization for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 displayed the highest potential, the most modest declination, and the biggest current density at each external resistance, showing its greatest performance superior to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC and Pt/C. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement (Figure \$19b, Supporting Information) showed the cell resistance in the order Pt/C  $(11.1 \Omega) < \text{Fe}_2 - \text{S/NC-6}$   $(14.4 \Omega) < \text{Fe}_2 - \text{NC}$   $(17.1 \Omega)$ , illustrating that

the electron-transfer efficiency of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 was higher than Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, but inferior to Pt/C. The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-MFC performed the highest power density of 2074  $\pm$  66 mW m<sup>-2</sup>, followed by Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC - MFC (1689  $\pm$  95 mW m<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C - MFC (1533  $\pm$  75 mW m<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 7b). This result suggested that the addition of sulfur can enhance the cathodic catalytic performance and then boost the electric generation. Compared with the reported sulfur-modified catalysts, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 exhibited a promising application for MFC (Table S7, Supporting Information).

The long-time stability of MFC was tested by collecting the output voltage with external resistance of 1000  $\Omega$  over 800 h ( $\approx \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \! \!$ 

Chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal and coulombic efficiency (CE) were used to evaluate efficiencies for wastewater treatment and electronic recycling, respectively. The COD concentration of the initial substrate solution was  $\approx$ 4816 mg L<sup>-1</sup>, and the effluent was collected from various MFCs at the end of 2–4 cycles. As displayed in Figure 7d, Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6-MFC performed the highest COD removal of 91.6  $\pm$  2.9%, excelling Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC-MFC (86.2  $\pm$  1.5%) and Pt/C-MFC (85.5  $\pm$  2.5%), indicating that the rapid kinetics of the ORR over Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 catalyst could efficiently utilize the charges produced by the oxidation of organic

<span id="page-9-0"></span>www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-methods.com

2366968, 2025, 11, Dowlonded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smd.202501359 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.viley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA arctices are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

matter at the anode, ultimately leading to higher organic matter removals. Additionally, Fe $_2$ -S/NC-6-MFC exhibited an outstanding CE at  $\approx\!14.1\pm0.6\%$ , higher than Fe $_2$ -NC-MFC (12.1  $\pm$  0.3%) and Pt/C-MFC (13.8  $\pm$  1.5%), suggesting its favorable conversion of organic matter into electrical current. The above results proved that the appropriate sulfur addition in Fe $_2$ -S/NC-6 catalyst can promote MFC performance, including power density, stability, sewage treatment and electronic recycling efficiency.

#### 3. Conclusion

The effect of sulfur-doped Fe2-NC dual-atomic catalyst for enhancing ORR performance was investigated. The Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalysts with S atoms showed higher ORR activity, faster kinetics and favorable activity efficiency compared to Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC (without S), illustrating that sulfur-doped Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-x catalyst can enhance the ORR performance. Notably, Fe2-S/NC-6 exhibited superior  $E_{1/2}$  and stability both in alkaline and neutral electrolyte, exceeding those of Pt/C catalyst, and it was comparable with Pt/C in acidic solution. Several factors contributed to these outcomes: 1) improved defect structure, altering the electronic configuration of catalyst; 2) increased surface area and pore size facilitating the exposure of active sites and mass transfer; 3) sulfur introduction reducing the electron density of Fe active centers, thereby regulating the intermediates adsorption. Computational studies further revealed that the *d*-band center of Fe sites shifted negatively after sulfur incorporation, following the trend of Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC (with Fe—S bond) < Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S (with thiophene-like sulfur) < Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC, which was further supported by Bader charge analysis. Compared to the thiophene-like sulfur, Fe-S bond exhibited more obvious regulation on the electron density of Fe atoms. Consequently, the ORR activity was the highest for Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC, followed by Fe<sub>2</sub>-NC/S, with Fe2-NC showing the lowest activity. Moreover, when used as the air electrode, both Fe<sub>2</sub>-S/NC-6 based Zn-Air battery (ZAB) and microbial fuel cell (MFC) showed preeminent power density  $(317.1 \text{ mW cm}^{-2} \text{ for ZAB}, 2074 \pm 66 \text{ mW m}^{-2} \text{ for MFC}) \text{ along}$ with outstanding durability. All of above merits highlight its notable suitability for application.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### Acknowledgements

This research was supported National Natural Science Foundation of China (21872056, U2032152) and Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province (2023A1515011249, 2021A1515010149). The authors thank BL20U of Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facilities (SSRF) for providing the beam time and thank Fanfei Sun and Jingyuan Ma.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

## **Keywords**

adsorption, dual-atomic catalyst, electron structure, oxygen reduction reaction, sulfur incorporation

Received: July 11, 2025 Revised: August 23, 2025 Published online: September 15, 2025

- S. Bhoyate, J. Kim, F. Souza, J. Lin, E. Lee, A. Kumar, R. K. Gupta, Coord. Chem. Rev. 2023, 474, 214854.
- [2] K. Hu, T. Yu, Y. Zhang, X. Lin, Y. Zhao, G. Xie, X. Liu, X. Lin, J. Fujita, H. J. Qiu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2103632.
- [3] H. Hu, Y. Wang, Y. Xu, L. Jin, S. Jeong, X. Xie, C. Xiong, B. Zhou, W. Sun, J. Zhang, Chem. Eng. J. 2024, 492, 152325.
- [4] H. Tian, A. Song, P. Zhang, K. Sun, J. Wang, B. Sun, Q. Fan, G. Shao, C. Chen, H. Liu, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2210714.
- [5] A. Musa, M. Tabish, A. Kumar, M. Selvaraj, M. Khan, B. Al-Shehri, M. Arif, M. A. Mushtaq, S. Ibraheem, Y. Slimani, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 451, 138684
- [6] M. Chen, Z. Huang, X. Ye, L. Zhang, J. Feng, A. Wang, J. Colloid Interf. Sci. 2023, 637, 216.
- [7] K. Leng, J. Zhang, Y. Wang, D. Li, L. Bai, J. Shi, X. Li, L. Zheng, J. Bai, Y. Qu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2205637.
- [8] Y. Zhou, R. Lu, X. Tao, Z. Qiu, G. Chen, J. Yang, Y. Zhao, X. Feng, K. Müllen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023, 145, 3647.
- [9] K. Hu, X. Wang, Y. Hu, H. Hu, X. Lin, K. Reddy, M. Luo, H. Qiu, X. Lin, ACS Nano 2022, 16, 19165.
- [10] J. Wang, W. Liu, G. Luo, Z. Li, C. Zhao, H. Zhang, M. Zhu, Q. Xu, X. Wang, C. Zhao, Energy Environ. Sci. 2018, 11, 3375.
- [11] M. Jiang, F. Wang, F. Yang, H. He, J. Yang, W. Zhang, J. Luo, J. Zhang, C. Fu, Nano Energy 2022, 93, 106793.
- [12] X. Zhu, D. Zhang, C.-J. Chen, Q. Zhang, R. Liu, Z. Xia, L. Dai, R. Amal, X. Lu, Nano Energy 2020, 71, 104597.
- [13] T. Cui, Y. Wang, T. Ye, J. Wu, Z. Chen, J. Li, Y. Lei, D. Wang, Y. Li, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022, 61, 202115219.
- [14] S. Huang, Z. Qiao, P. Sun, K. Qiao, K. Pei, L. Yang, H. Xu, S. Wang, Y. Huang, Y. Yan, Appl. Catal. B-Environ. 2022, 317, 121770.
- [15] H. Yang, H. Huang, Q. Wang, L. Shang, T. Zhang, S. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2023, 11, 6191.
- [16] X. Duan, K. O'Donnell, H. Sun, Y. Wang, S. Wang, Small 2015, 11,
- [17] C. Maouche, Y. Wang, C. Cheng, W. Wang, Y. Li, W. Qureshi, P. Huang, A. Amjad, Y. Zhou, J. Yang, J. Colloid Interf. Sci. 2022, 623, 146.
- [18] Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. Han, J. Lee, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 6254.
- [19] H. Shen, E. Gracia-Espino, J. Ma, K. Zang, J. Luo, L. Wang, S. Gao, X. Mamat, G. Hu, T. Wagberg, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* 2017, 56, 13800.
- [20] Z. Chen, H. Niu, J. Ding, H. Liu, P. H. Chen, Y. H. Lu, Y. R. Lu, W. Zuo, L. Han, Y. Guo, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 133, 25608.
- [21] H. Liu, L. Jiang, Y. Sun, J. Khan, B. Feng, J. Xiao, H. Zhang, H. Xie, L. Li, S. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2304074.
- [22] C. Shao, L. Wu, H. Zhang, Q. Jiang, X. Xu, Y. Wang, S. Zhuang, H. Chu, L. Sun, J. Ye, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2100833.
- [23] W. Ye, S. Chen, Y. Lin, L. Yang, S. Chen, X. Zheng, Z. Qi, C. Wang, R. Long, M. Chen, Chem 2019, 5, 2865.
- [24] M. Liu, X. Wang, S. Cao, X. Lu, W. Li, N. Li, X. Bu, Adv. Mater. 2024, 36, 2309231.
- [25] Y. Li, X. Luo, Z. Wei, F. Zhang, Z. Sun, Z. Deng, Z. Zhan, C. Zhao, Q. Sun, L. Zhang, W. Chen, S. Li, S. Pang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2024, 17, 4646.

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[26] L. Wu, Y. Chen, C. Shao, L. Wang, B. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2408257.
- [27] M. Blagov, N. Spitsyna, V. Lazarenko, N. Ovanesyan, A. Lobach, L. Zorina, S. Simonov, V. Krapivin, A. Dmitriev, M. Zhidkov, *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *26*, 202300239.
- [28] Y. Xie, X. Chen, K. Sun, J. Zhang, W. Lai, H. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202301833.
- [29] Z. Li, Y. Yao, Y. Niu, W. A. Zhang, B. Chen, X. Zeng, J. Zou, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *418*, 129321.
- [30] K. Wang, X. Zhang, X. Xiang, Y. Wang, D. Lyu, S. Xi, Z. Tian, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 46548.
- [31] E. Ba, M. Dumont, P. Martins, B. Pinheiro, M. Cruz, J. Barbosa, *Diamond Relat. Mater.* **2022**, *122*, 108818.
- [32] L. Zhang, Y. Hu, K. Jiang, K. Li, Y. Liu, D. Wang, Y. Ye, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2021**, *168*, 054523.
- [33] Z. Wang, X. Jin, C. Zhu, Y. Liu, H. Tan, R. Ku, Y. Zhang, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, S. J. Hwang, H. J. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2104718.
- [34] M. Donohue, G. Aranovich, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **1998**, *205*, 121.
- [35] Y. He, X. Yang, Y. Li, L. Liu, S. Guo, C. Shu, F. Liu, Y. Liu, Q. Tan, G. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1216.
- [36] X. Ao, W. Zhang, Z. Li, J. Li, L. Soule, X. Huang, W. Chiang, H. Chen, C. Wang, M. Liu, X. Zeng, *ACS Nano* **2019**, *13*, 11853.
- [37] C. Wang, C. Ren, K. Fang, J. Feng, Y. Shi, Y. Gao, A. Wang, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **2025**, *699*, 138169.
- [38] W. Deng, T. Wu, Y. Wu, H. Zheng, G. Li, M. Yang, X. Zou, Y. Bai, Y. Yang, M. Jing, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 20993.
- [39] J. Yan, T. Gu, R. Shi, X. Chen, M. Rümmeli, R. Yang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 16180.
- [40] S. Ibraheem, S. Chen, L. Peng, J. Li, L. Li, Q. Liao, M. Shao, Z. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2020**, *265*, 118569.
- [41] L. Liu, L. Liu, C. Wang, L. Zhang, J. Feng, Y. Gao, A. Wang, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **2025**, *684*, 10.
- [42] Q. Ruan, R. Feng, L. Liu, L. Zhang, J. Feng, Y. Shi, Y. Gao, A. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2025**, *509*, 161441.
- [43] D. Guo, R. Shibuya, C. Akiba, S. Saji, T. Kondo, J. Nakamura, *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361.

- [44] Z. Tan, H. Li, Q. Feng, L. Jiang, H. Pan, Z. Huang, Q. Zhou, H. Zhou, S. Ma, Y. Kuang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 1607.
- [45] X. Zhang, Q. Zhang, J. Cui, J. Yan, J. Liu, Y. Wu, *Nanoscale* **2022**, *14*, 3212.
- [46] X. Li, X. Yang, L. Liu, H. Zhao, Y. Li, H. Zhu, Y. Chen, S. Guo, Y. Liu, Q. Tan, G. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 7450.
- [47] Y. Xu, W. Li, L. Chen, W. Li, W. Feng, X. Qiu, *Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *62*, 5253.
- [48] X. Liu, Z. Xiao, J. Ren, F. Wang, C. Wei, Q. Xing, W. Yan, X. Li, Y. Chen, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *580*, 152255.
- [49] C. Shao, L. Wu, Y. Wang, K. Qu, H. Chu, L. Sun, J. Ye, B. Li, X. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2022**, *316*, 121607.
- [50] Q. Wang, Y. Yang, F. Sun, G. Chen, J. Wang, L. Peng, W. T. Chen, L. Shang, J. Zhao, D. Sun-Waterhouse, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2100219.
- [51] H. Gharibi, N. Dalir, M. Jafari, M. Parnian, M. Zhiani, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *572*, 151367.
- [52] C. Jackson, X. Lin, P. Levecque, A. Kucernak, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 200.
- [53] H. Wang, Y. Song, Q. Peng, X. Gu, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, X. Yang, W. Lin, *Energy Fuels* **2024**, *38*, 7311.
- [54] Z. Sun, H. Zhang, L. Cao, X. Liu, D. Wu, X. Shen, X. Zhang, Z. Chen, S. Ru, X. Zhu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *135*, 202217719.
- [55] N. Parimi, Y. Umasankar, P. Atanassov, R. Ramasamy, *ACS Catal.* **2012**, *2*, 38.
- [56] F. Nasim, M. Nadeem, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 10095.
- [57] Z. Sun, Y. Wang, L. Zhang, H. Wu, Y. Jin, Y. Li, Y. Shi, T. Zhu, H. Mao, J. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910482.
- [58] Y. Li, X. Luo, F. Zhang, Z. Sun, Z. Wei, Z. Deng, Z. Zhan, C. Zhao, Q. Sun, L. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 4646.
- [59] C. Qi, H. Yang, Z. Sun, H. Wang, N. Xu, G. Zhu, L. Wang, W. Jiang, X. Yu, X. Li, Q. Xiao, P. Qiu, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202308344.
- [60] X. Zhao, X. Liu, B. Huang, P. Wang, Y. Pei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 24583.
- [61] H. Yuan, Y. Hou, I. Abu-Reesh, J. Chen, Z. He, *Mater. Horiz.* **2016**, *3*, 382.