---
source: Wu 等 - 2025 - Graphene‐Based Phthalocyanine‐Assembled Synergistic Fe‐Co‐Ni Trimetallic Single‐Atomic Bifunctional.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.277s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:38:49.692266Z
---

# Graphene‐Based Phthalocyanine‐Assembled Synergistic Fe‐Co‐Ni Trimetallic Single‐Atomic Bifunctional Electrocatalysts by Rational Design for Boosting Oxygen Reduction/Evolution Reactions

Yujun Wu | Shaobing Tang | Wenbo Shi | Zhaoyu Ning | Xingke Du | Cunling Ye | Zhengyu Ba[i](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8611-3003) | Wei Shuang | Qing Zhang | Lin Yang

Collaborative Innovation Center of Henan Province for Green Manufacturing of Fine Chemicals, Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Media and Reactions, Ministry of Education, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Normal University, Henan, Xinxiang, China

Correspondence: Wei Shuang [\(shuangwei@htu.edu.cn](mailto:shuangwei@htu.edu.cn)) | Qing Zhang ([zhangqing@htu.edu.cn\)](mailto:zhangqing@htu.edu.cn) | Lin Yang [\(yanglin@htu.edu.cn\)](mailto:yanglin@htu.edu.cn)

Received: 20 March 2025 | Revised: 12 May 2025 | Accepted: 26 May 2025

Funding: This workstudy was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 22305071, 52472200, 52271176, and 52072114), the 111 Project (Grant No. D17007), Henan Center for Outstanding Overseas Scientists (Grant No. GZS2022017), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Grant No. 2022M721049), the Henan Province Key Research and Development Project (Grant No. 231111520500), and the Natural Science Foundation of Henan Province (Grant No. 252300421556).

Keywords: bifunctional electrocatalysts | Fe‐Co‐Ni trimetallic single‐atomic sites | oxygen evolution reaction | oxygen reduction reaction | synergetic coupling effect

## ABSTRACT

Development of high‐efficiency bifunctional oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) electrocatalysts is vital for the widespread application of zinc–air batteries (ZABs). However, it still remains a great challenge to avoid the inhomogeneous distribution and aggregation of metal single‐atomic active centers in the construction of bifunctional electrocatalysts with atomically dispersed multimetallic sites because of the common calcination method. Herein, we report a novel catalyst with phthalocyanine‐assembled Fe‐Co‐Ni single‐atomic triple sites dispersed on sulfur‐doped graphene using a simple ultrasonic procedure without calcination, and X‐ray absorption fine structure (XAFS), aberration‐corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC‐STEM), and other detailed characterizations are performed to demonstrate the successful synthesis. The novel catalyst shows extraordinary bifunctional ORR/OER activities with a fairly low potential difference (ΔE = 0.621 V) between the OER overpotential (Ej<sup>10</sup> = 315 mV at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ) and the ORR half‐wave potential (Ehalf‐wave = 0.924 V). Moreover, the above catalyst shows excellent ZAB performance, with an outstanding specific capacity (786 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> ), noteworthy maximum power density (139 mW cm−<sup>2</sup> ), and extraordinary rechargeability (discharged and charged at 5 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for more than 1000 h). Theoretical calculations reveal the vital importance of the preferable synergetic coupling effect between adjacent active sites in the Fe‐Co‐Ni trimetallic single‐atomic sites during the ORR/OER processes. This study provides a new avenue for the investigation of bifunctional electrocatalysts with atomically dispersed trimetallic sites, which is intended for enhancing the ORR/OER performance in ZABs.

This is an open access article under the terms of the [Creative Commons Attribution](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

© 2025 The Author(s). Carbon Energy published by Wenzhou University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

### 1 | Introduction

Advanced energy storage and conversion technologies have attracted extensive attention with the purpose of mitigate the growing global energy and environmental crises [1–4]. Owing to their high energy density, zinc–air batteries (ZABs) are considered as one of the most promising solutions among various energy conversion devices [5–10]. However, inferior discharging/charging current density, severe corrosion of catalysts, and poor cycling stability are the main impediments to the sustainable development of ZABs [11, 12]. Therefore, high-efficiency and durable noble metal-free electrocatalysts that can accelerate both oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) are urgently needed considering the prohibitive cost of high-performing noble metal catalysts (Pt-based catalysts for ORR and RuO<sub>2</sub>-based catalysts for OER) [13–16].

To date, atomically dispersed noble metal-free electrocatalysts have attracted widespread attention from researchers because of their attractive features (low cost, nearly 100% atomic utilization, noteworthy activity, tunable electronic structures, etc.) [17-21]. For instance, carbon-supporting single-atom catalysts (such as metalnitrogen-doped carbon (M-N<sub>x</sub>-C) single-atom catalysts) have received attention from researchers [22-24]. The electron distribution between metal sites and neighboring N can regulate the adsorption energies of reaction intermediates (such as OOH\*, O\*, and OH\*) on catalytic active sites, thereby modulating the catalytic activities [25, 26]. However, only a few monometallic single-atom catalysts show satisfactory bifunctional electrocatalytic performances, and most of them display only OER or ORR performance compared to polymetallic single-atom catalysts due to the distinct pathways and rate-determining steps (RDS) of OER and ORR processes [27]. The coordination environment and neighboring species of the metal active centers dispersed on the atomic scale play an important role in catalytic activity [28]. Therefore, the mode of construction of polymetallic single-atomic sites can enhance the bifunctional ORR/OER performance owing to the strong interactions between adjacent active sites [29-31]. First, the adsorption energies of intermediates can be changed by single-atomic multiple sites; moreover, the reaction energy barriers can be reduced by the synergistic effect of multiple sites. Furthermore, the reaction routes may be changed during the bifunctionally electrocatalytic procedure because of the optimization process [32, 33]. Besides, the integration of trimetallic sites can both introduce much more active sites and broaden the space of tunable electronic structures [34]. Unfortunately, no bifunctional electrocatalysts with trimetallic single-atomic sites have been constructed in actual experimental operations to date. In addition, most of the synthesis strategies (such as the common calcination method) for polymetallic single-atom catalysts often lead to inhomogeneous distribution and aggregation of metal single-atomic active centers, thereby resulting in the insufficient electronic modulation effect, which inevitably leads to low bifunctionally catalytic activities and poor catalytic stability. Hence, it is particularly important to develop new strategies to tackle the above problems.

Herein, a micron-sized lamellar sulfur-doped graphene (SG) structure with phthalocyanine-assembled evenly distributed Fe-Co-Ni trimetallic single-atomic sites, denoted as Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, was successfully fabricated. In a typical procedure, the

Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites are dispersed via  $\pi$ – $\pi$  stacking on sulfur-doped graphene by a simple ultrasonic procedure without calcination. It is notable that the entire synthesis process obviates the operation of calcination to prevent aggregation of the catalytic centers. According to recent studies [35–37], the introduced sulfur atoms (with strong electronegativity) can alter the electron distribution of the metal centers and modulate the splitting of d orbital energy levels of metal centers, ensuring the exposure of active sites by disrupting the planar symmetry of FePc, CoPc, and NiPc. Meanwhile, the introduced sulfur atoms can enhance the dispersion and stability of metal active centers by levering defects in graphene, which is beneficial to the  $\pi$ - $\pi$  stacking. Hence, sulfur-doped graphene acted as the substrate in this study. Subsequently, a variety of comprehensive characterization investigations (such as X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS), aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC-STEM), and so on) were used to confirm the successful construction of as-prepared samples. The electrochemical tests demonstrate that the obtained sample with Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites displays excellent ORR and OER activities. Notably, the target catalyst shows a lower overpotential  $(E_{i10})$  of 315 mV (at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) for OER and a higher half-wave potential ( $E_{half-wave}$ ) of 0.924 V for ORR. The potential difference ( $\Delta E$ ) between  $E_{\text{half-wave}}$  and  $E_{j10}$  for the target catalyst is only 0.621 V, indicating the outstanding bifunctionally electrocatalytic activity and promising application for high-performance ZAB. In addition, in situ infrared (IR) spectroscopy and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to reveal the preferable synergetic coupling effect of Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites in the ORR/OER process. This study develops an innovative pathway for the construction of atomically dispersed trimetallic sites as bifunctional electrocatalysts for ZABs in an actual experimental operation.

### 2 | Results and Discussion

## 2.1 | Micromorphology and Microstructure

The synthetic process of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is schematically shown in Figure 1A, where SG, iron phthalocyanine (FePc), cobalt phthalocyanine (CoPc), and nickel phthalocyanine (NiPc) are dispersed in N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) only under ultrasonic treatment to obtain the sample without calcination. The micromorphology and microstructure of the as-prepared sample Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG were studied by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and aberration-corrected (AC)-scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) measurements. As indicated in Figure 1B, the TEM image of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG shows a micronsized lamellar structure with flexible and transparent sheets, thus revealing an ultrathin property. Additionally, the AC-high angel annular dark-field (HAADF)-STEM image of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG further confirms the ultrathin nature. From Figure 1C, it is clear that the transparent and homogeneous regions are ultrathin graphene nanosheets, whereas the ripples are attributed to fold lines. Based on Figure 1B,C, it is clear that no metal nanoclusters or nanoparticles can be detected in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG. Moreover, the corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping images of Fe, Co, Ni, S, N, O, and C elements in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figure S1A-H, which implies that all elements throughout the material are evenly distributed. Notably, there are no Fe/

<span id="page-2-0"></span>FIGURE 1 | (A) Schematic of the fabrication process of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG. (B) TEM image, (C) AC‐HAADF‐STEM image, (D) AC‐STEM image, and (E) the acquired AC‐STEM image intensity profile of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG.

Co/Ni diffraction spots in the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Supporting Information S1: Figure [S1I](#page-12-0)) of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, which is consistent with the TEM and AC‐ HAADF‐STEM results. Based on the TEM, AC‐HAADF‐STEM, and SAED results, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc may couple on SG by strong chemical and electronic coupling through π–π stacking to avoid their re‐aggregations, exposing much more active Fe/Co/Ni sites [[35, 36](#page-11-10)]. Furthermore, the AC‐STEM image of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG (Figure [1D](#page-2-0)) shows that lots of isolated and highly bright spots are dispersed on SG, indicating the atomically dispersed microstructures of Fe, Co, and Ni sites. Moreover, the AC‐STEM results of Fe5Co2‐SG and Co2Ni10‐SG are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figure [S2](#page-12-0) to further confirm the presence of single‐atomic triple sites in Fe5Co2Ni10‐ SG rather than metal nanoclusters/nanoparticles. In Supporting Information S1: Figure [S2,](#page-12-0) nanoclusters/nanoparticles can be detected in Fe5Co2‐SG and Co2Ni10‐SG. Additionally, the trimetallic single‐atomic groups (typically circled by red circles in Figure [1D\)](#page-2-0) in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG suggest the formation of atomic‐ dispersion triple sites. Meanwhile, the average atomic distance of the metal atoms in the specified marked red circle in Figure [1D](#page-2-0) is 3.28 Å according to the intensity profile in Figure [1E,](#page-2-0) confirming the formation of single‐atomic triple sites in Fe5- Co2Ni10‐SG. In addition, the results of the statistically rigorous analysis of the interatomic distances between atoms of all the trimetallic single‐atomic groups (typically circled by red circles in Figure [1D](#page-2-0)) are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figure [S3](#page-12-0), indicating that the range of the atomic distance of the metal atoms is 2.5–4 Å, thereby representing the overall homogeneity of the metal atom distribution. In sum, the above results prove that an Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG sample with a micron‐sized lamellar SG structure with phthalocyanine‐assembled evenly distributed Fe‐Co‐Ni trimetallic single‐atomic sites was successfully constructed.

## 2.2 | Structural Characterization

The chemical compositions and corresponding electronic states of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG were identified by X‐ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis. According to the high‐resolution XPS spectra of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG (Figure [2A](#page-3-0)–F), Fe, Co, Ni, C, N, and S elements are present in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG. Remarkably, the spectra of Fe 2p, Co 2p, and Ni 2p in Figure [2A](#page-3-0)–C are split into Fe 2p3/2 (710.5 eV) and Fe 2p1/2 (723.7 eV), Co 2p3/2 (782.1 eV) and Co 2p1/2 (795.3 eV), and Ni 2p3/2 (856.2 eV) and Ni 2p1/2 (873.4 eV), respectively [\[38](#page-11-11)–40]. The characteristic signals in Figure [2A](#page-3-0)–C suggest that the metal species (Fe, Co, and Ni) in the sample are present in a metal ionized state (+2–+3) rather than a metallic state. Figure [2D](#page-3-0)–F reveals the presence of the C─S group and the C─N group. Specifically, the spectrum of C 1s can be decomposed into four peaks of C═O (290.3 eV), C─O/C═N/C═S (287.9 eV), C─C/C─N/C─S (285.8 eV), and C═C (284.8 eV), whereas the peak of N 1s can be fitted to five peaks located at 404.6, 400.7, 399.9, 399.2, and 399.1 eV, which correspond to oxidized‐N, graphitic‐N, pyrrolic‐N, pyridinic‐N, and

<span id="page-3-0"></span>FIGURE 2 | High‐resolution XPS spectra for (A) Fe 2p, (B) Co 2p, (C) Ni 2p, (D) C 1s, (E) N 1s, and (F) S 2p of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG. (G) IR spectra, (H) Raman spectra, and (I) XRD patterns of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, SG, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc.

M–N (M = Fe, Co, and Ni), respectively [41]. Meanwhile, the S 2p peak can be divided into three obvious signals of C–SO $_x$ –C (169.4 eV), C=S (165.4 eV), and C–S–C (164.2 eV), which is beneficial to the  $\pi$ – $\pi$  stacking [35, 36]. It can be inferred that the S element is doped in graphene, whereas metal elements are loaded on the SG successfully based on the chemical bonding information presented in Figure 2A–F. In particular, pyridinic-N and metal single atom can accelerate the 4e<sup>-</sup> transfer pathway, thereby improving the ORR and OER performance. Additionally, the concentrations (at%) of all elements in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG are shown in Supporting Information S1: Table S1, further indicating that the metal single-atomic sites were successfully loaded on the SG.

Furthermore, the structural information of the obtained samples was also confirmed by infrared (IR) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and X-ray diffractometry (XRD) measurements. The IR spectra of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, SG, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc are shown in Figure 2G. The IR spectrum of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG shows the main characteristic vibration bands of FePc/CoPc/NiPc compared with that of SG, indicating the presence of FePc/ CoPc/NiPc. Additionally, Figure 2H shows the Raman spectra of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, SG, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc. The peak intensity ratio of D band and G band  $(I_D/I_G)$  corresponding to defective and graphitic carbon, respectively, of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is 0.283, which is lower than that of SG (0.476), indicating that FePc/ CoPc/NiPc can cover the partial defect sites of SG and decrease the defects. Notably, the Raman signature vibrational signals of FePc/CoPc/NiPc disappear in Fe5Co2Ni10-SG because the interactions caused by  $\pi$ - $\pi$  stacking inhibit the vibrational modes of the FePc/CoPc/NiPc molecules on Fe5Co2Ni10-SG. In addition, the XRD patterns of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, SG, FePc, CoPc, and NiPc are shown in Figure 2I. The XRD patterns of atomically dispersed dual sites on SG (Fe5Co2-SG, Fe5Ni10-SG, and Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG), and atomically dispersed single sites on SG (Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, Fe<sub>5</sub>-SG, Co<sub>2</sub>-SG, and Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG) are compared (as indicated in Supporting Information S1: Figure S4). Moreover, the XRD patterns of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>-SG, Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>5</sub>-SG, Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>8</sub>-SG, Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, and Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>13</sub>-SG are further compared in Supporting Information S1: Figure S5. In Figure 2I and Supporting Information S1: Figures S4 and S5, obvious signals of FePc/CoPc/NiPc can be observed in the XRD patterns of the contrast samples, but all of the FePc/CoPc/NiPc signature signals disappear for Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, implying the atomically dispersed form of Fe, Co, and Ni sites in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG rather than the metallic crystal form, which is consistent with the results of AC-STEM. In summary, the results of IR, Raman, and XRD characterization tests indicate the successful construction of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG.

Moreover, XAFS investigations were utilized to identify the atomic structures, chemical states, and coordination structures of the Fe, Co, and Ni species in  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG. Figure 3A shows the Fe K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG, an Fe foil, FePc,  $Fe_2O_3$ , and  $Fe_3O_4$ . From Figure 3A, it is clear that the absorption position of the Fe K-edge for  $Fe_5-Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG is close to that of FePc, implying that the valence of Fe is +2-+3, which is consistent with the result of XPS. Meanwhile, Figure 3B displays the Fourier transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra at the Fe K-edge of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG, an Fe foil, FePc,  $Fe_2O_3$ , and  $Fe_3O_4$ . Only one major

peak at ≈1.50 Å appears in the Fe K-edge FT-EXAFS spectrum of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, which indicates Fe-N bonding, corresponding to the Fe single-atom form of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG. In addition, the Fe species in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is identified to be the single-atom form according to Figure 3C and Supporting Information S1: Figures S6 and S7. Furthermore, the wavelet transform (WT) contour plot of Fe in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is almost the same as that of FePc, as shown in Figure 3D and Supporting Information S1: Figure S8, confirming Fe-N coordination in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG. For better comparison, the WT-EXAFS spectra of the Fe foil, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, and Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> are also shown in Supporting Information S1: Figures S9-S11. Similarly, the Co species in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is also confirmed to be the single-atom form (metal ionized state) based on Figure 3E-H and Supporting Information S1: Figures S12-S16. Meanwhile, the Ni species in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is also identified to be the single-atom form (metal ionized state) according to Figure 3I-L and Supporting Information S1: Figures S17-S21. Subsequently, the average coordination number for M-N is 4.33 according to the results of XAFS in Figure 3, Supporting Information S1: Figures S6-S21 and Table S2, which is close to 4, revealing M-N bonding in MPc. In addition, the concentrations (wt%) of Fe, Co, and Ni elements in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG obtained by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) analysis are shown in Supporting Information S1: Table S3, which are in the range of the single-atom content. According to above results of XAFS and ICP-OES, the successful fabrication of the Fe5Co2Ni10-SG was confirmed again.

### 2.3 | Electrochemical Performance

The OER and ORR activities of the as-prepared catalysts were investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV), linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), Tafel, chronoamperometric response, and other electrochemical tests. From the OER LSV curves in Figure 4A, it is clear that  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG shows lower overpotential ( $E_{i10}$  = 315 mV) than those of  $Fe_5Co_2$ -SG (473 mV),  $Fe_5Ni_{10}$ -SG (463 mV), Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG (423 mV), Fe<sub>5</sub>-SG (489 mV), Co<sub>2</sub>-SG (462 mV), and Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG (441 mV) at  $10 \,\mathrm{mA}\,\mathrm{cm}^{-2}$  owing to the preferable synergetic coupling effect of Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG. Furthermore, Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG also shows the lowest overpotential among all the FeCoNi-SG materials in different metal proportions in Supporting Information S1: Figure S22 because of the atomically dispersed form of triple sites in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG according to the XRD results (Supporting Information S1: Figure S21). For further comparison, the OER LSV curves of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, commercial graphene (CG), SG, and RuO2 are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figure S23. From Supporting Information S1: Figure S23, it is clear that Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG shows almost the same OER performance as the commercial RuO2 catalyst, which is considerably superior to that of SG and CG. The corresponding Tafel plots derived from Figure 4A and Supporting Information S1: Figures S22 and S23 are shown in Figure 4B and Supporting Information S1: Figures S24 and S25, respectively, implying the corresponding OER kinetic process. Smaller slope of the Tafel plot denotes better kinetics, corresponding to better OER catalytic property. Consequently, Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG shows the lowest OER Tafel slope (51.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) compared to those of other as-prepared catalysts, indicating optimal OER catalytic activity.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>FIGURE 3 | (A) Fe K‐edge XANES spectra and (B) Fe K‐edge FT‐EXAFS spectra of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, an Fe foil, FePc, Fe2O3, and Fe3O4. (C) Corresponding EXAFS fitting curve of Fe in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG in the R space. (D) WT‐EXAFS spectrum of Fe in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG. (E) Co K‐edge XANES spectra and (F) Co K‐edge FT‐EXAFS spectra of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, a Co foil, CoPc, and CoO. (G) Corresponding EXAFS fitting curve of Co in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG in the R space. (H) WT‐EXAFS spectrum of Co in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG. (I) Ni K‐edge XANES spectra and (J) Ni K‐edge FT‐EXAFS spectra of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, an Ni foil, NiPc, and NiO. (K) Corresponding EXAFS fitting curve of Ni in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG in the R space. (L) WT‐EXAFS spectrum of Ni in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG.

Besides the excellent catalytic activity of OER, Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG also displays outstanding performance in terms of ORR. Supporting Information S1: Figure [S26](#page-12-0) shows a comparison of the CV curves of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG in N2‐ and O2‐saturated electrolytes; noticeable oxygen reduction peaks are observed in the O2‐saturated electrolyte, whereas featureless peaks are recorded at the same potential range in the N2‐saturated electrolyte, implying that Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG shows ORR activity. As indicated in the ORR LSV curves of all the as‐prepared catalysts in Figure [4C](#page-6-0) and Supporting Information S1: Figures [S27](#page-12-0) and [S28,](#page-12-0) Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG shows an excellent half‐wave potential (Ehalf‐wave = 0.924 V) and outstanding current density (J = 6.16 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ). The reason for the higher positive Ehalf‐wave and the much larger current density of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG than those of

<span id="page-6-0"></span>FIGURE 4 | (A) OER LSV curves and (B) corresponding OER Tafel plots of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, Fe5Co2‐SG, Fe5Ni10‐SG, Co2Ni10‐SG, Fe5‐SG, Co2‐SG, and Ni10‐SG. (C) ORR LSV curves and (D) corresponding ORR Tafel plots of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG, Fe5Co2‐SG, Fe5Ni10‐SG, Co2Ni10‐SG, Fe5‐SG, Co2‐SG, and Ni10‐SG. (E) LSV curves of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG at different rotating rates (400–2025 rpm). (F) K–L plots of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG at different potentials (0.2–0.7 V). (G) H2O2 yields and electron transfer number derived from the RRDE voltammograms of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG and Pt/C. (H) Comparison of the chronoamperometric curves with the addition of methanol for Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG and Pt/C. (I) Overall polarization curves of the ORR and OER for Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG and Pt/C‐RuO2.

other as‐prepared catalysts and the commercial Pt/C catalyst may be attributed to the presence of the Fe‐Co‐Ni single‐atomic triple sites in Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG. Additionally, Figure [4D](#page-6-0) and Supporting Information S1: Figures [S29](#page-12-0) and [S30](#page-12-0) show the corresponding Tafel plots derived from Figure [4C](#page-6-0) and Supporting Information S1: Figures [S27](#page-12-0) and [S28](#page-12-0), respectively. According to Figure [4D](#page-6-0) and Supporting Information S1: Figures [S29](#page-12-0) and [S30,](#page-12-0) Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG displays the lowest Tafel slope of 32.9 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> among all the as‐prepared catalysts owing to the preferable synergetic coupling effect, indicating that it facilitates the best ORR kinetic process. To determine the ORR electrocatalytic mechanism and electron transfer kinetics, LSV curves of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG at different rotating rates (from 400 to 2025 rpm) are shown in Figure [4E](#page-6-0). From the Koutecky– Levich (K–L) curves (0.2–0.7 V) derived from Figure [4E](#page-6-0), as shown in Figure [4F,](#page-6-0) all curves are parallel and straight lines, demonstrating first‐order reaction kinetics. Subsequently, the calculated electron transfer number (n) per oxygen molecule from the K–L slopes of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG is quite close to 4, signifying the four‐electron transfer pathway for ORR. Moreover, the H2O2 yields and n were also determine to further confirm the excellent selectivity of the 4e<sup>−</sup> transfer pathway for ORR according to Figure [4G.](#page-6-0) Besides, chronoamperometric tests of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG and the commercial Pt/C catalyst were performed to evaluate the electrocatalytic durability (Supporting Information S1: Figure [S31](#page-12-0)). From Supporting Information S1: Figure [S31,](#page-12-0) it is clear that Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG shows better current retention (92.07%) after 20,000 s than commercial Pt/C (84.42%), implying the outstanding long‐term stability of Fe5- Co2Ni10‐SG. Moreover, Supporting Information S1: Figure [S32](#page-12-0) shows the Raman spectrum of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG after the ORR chronoamperometric test, indicating that the structure of the catalyst has not undergone obvious changes during the ORR process, thereby proving the durability of the catalysis. In addition, Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG also displays robust anti‐poisoning ability, as shown in Figure [4H](#page-6-0). According to Figure [4H](#page-6-0), Fe5- Co2Ni10‐SG shows much greater tolerance to methanol poisoning than commercial Pt/C.

Additionally, the potential difference (ΔE) between Ehalf‐wave and Ej<sup>10</sup> can help identify the overall bifunctional electrocatalytic performance. The ΔE for the Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG catalyst is

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**TABLE 1** | Comparison of the  $\Delta E$  and OER/ORR Tafel slopes for a few well-known bifunctional oxygen catalysts.

| Catalysts                                                               | ΔE (V) | OER Tafel slopes (mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ) | ORR Tafel slopes (mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ) | Ref.       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|------------|
| $\text{Co-W}_x\text{C}$                                                 | 0.623  | 71.0                                     | 56.0                                     | [11]       |
| VMoON@NC                                                                | 0.671  | 19.4                                     | 26.6                                     | [27]       |
| Fe <sub>2</sub> O(SeO <sub>3</sub> ) <sub>2</sub> /Fe <sub>3</sub> C@NC | 0.665  | 73.6                                     | 85.1                                     | [42]       |
| $Ir_{SA}$ - $MnO_x$                                                     | 0.635  | 64.3                                     | 69.7                                     | [43]       |
| (Fe, Co)Se <sub>2</sub> @Fe <sub>1</sub> /NC                            | 0.616  | 56.3                                     | 46.5                                     | [44]       |
| Fe-Se/NC                                                                | 0.698  | 103.0                                    | 56.0                                     | [45]       |
| N-FeN <sub>4</sub>                                                      | 0.680  | 104.7                                    | 64.9                                     | [46]       |
| Fe SA/NCZ                                                               | 0.680  | 51.0                                     | 70.0                                     | [47]       |
| FeN <sub>4</sub> /MoO <sub>x</sub>                                      | 0.665  | 51.7                                     | /                                        | [48]       |
| cPI-CNF-Fe/Co                                                           | 0.640  | 86.0                                     | 63.0                                     | [49]       |
| CNTs  NiCo/CP                                                           | 0.686  | 50.0                                     | 29.0                                     | [50]       |
| Mn-RuO <sub>2</sub>                                                     | 0.640  | 45.8                                     | 38.9                                     | [51]       |
| Fe <sub>1</sub> /NCP                                                    | 0.650  | 67.6                                     | 56.9                                     | [52]       |
| A-MnO <sub>2</sub> /NSPC                                                | 0.640  | 63.0                                     | 91.0                                     | [53]       |
| CoN <sub>4</sub> -Cr                                                    | 0.700  | 64.0                                     | 64.8                                     | [54]       |
| P/Fe-N-C                                                                | 0.630  | 65.0                                     | /                                        | [55]       |
| Fe <sub>5</sub> Co <sub>2</sub> Ni <sub>10</sub> -SG                    | 0.621  | 51.3                                     | 32.9                                     | This study |

only 0.621 V according to Figure 4I, which is almost the same as that of state-of-the-art bifunctional oxygen catalysts shown in Table 1, indicating the potential advantages of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG in Zn-air batteries. Moreover, the Tafel slopes for OER and ORR results in Table 1 also indicate the excellent bifunctional performance of the  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG catalyst. Furthermore, the  $\Delta E$ results for recent reports on state-of-the-art tri-metallic and multi-metallic single-atom catalysts and the Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG catalyst in this study are shown in Supporting Information S1: Table S4, further demonstrating the excellent bifunctional performance of the Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG catalyst. The outstanding OER and ORR performance of Fe5Co2Ni10-SG is attributed to the preferable synergetic coupling effect of Fe-Co-Ni singleatomic triple sites. In order to further explain the above point, the sample labeled as Fe5-SG/Co2-SG/Ni10-SG was obtained by simple physical mixing of Fe5-SG, Co2-SG, and Ni10-SG. The OER and ORR performance of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG and Fe<sub>5</sub>-SG/Co<sub>2</sub>-SG/Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG is shown in Supporting Information S1: Figures S33 and S34, respectively. The OER and ORR activities of Fe5-Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG are superior to those of Fe<sub>5</sub>-SG/Co<sub>2</sub>-SG/Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG, further confirming the preferable synergetic coupling effect of Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites in Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG.

## 2.4 | ZAB Performance

A primary ZAB with the  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG material as the air cathode was constructed to evaluate the battery application of the  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG catalyst. Additionally, commercial Pt/C was also studied under the same conditions. The open-circuit voltage of the  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG material (1.47 V) is close to that of the commercial Pt/C material (1.45 V) according to Figure 5A. From Figure 5B, the maximum power density value of the

Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG material is 139 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of the commercial Pt/C material (109 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). In addition, Supporting Information S1: Table S5 shows the peak power densities of other electrodes reported in the literature and the Fe5Co2Ni10-SG material electrode in this study, indicating the noteworthy maximum power density of the Fe<sub>5</sub>-Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG material electrode. Furthermore, the specific capacity of the Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG material (786 mAh g<sup>-1</sup>) is also higher than that of the commercial Pt/C material (744 mAh g<sup>-1</sup>), as can be seen from Figure 5C. As shown in Figure 5D, the discharging curves of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG and Pt/C + RuO<sub>2</sub> for rechargeable ZABs with current densities from 1 to 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> indicate that Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG has higher discharging plateaus than Pt/C + RuO<sub>2</sub>, revealing excellent potential for practical applications. Furthermore, the cyclic stability of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG and Pt/C + RuO2 for rechargeable ZABs was further evaluated by a galvanostatic cycling test in Figure 5E. From Figure 5E, it is clear that the rechargeable ZAB with Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG as the electrode material can be stably discharged and charged at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for more than 1000 h, which is much longer than that of commercial Pt/C + RuO<sub>2</sub> for rechargeable ZAB, indicating excellent rechargeability. In addition, the XRD patterns of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG before and after rechargeable ZAB cycling are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figure S35. According to Supporting Information S1: Figure S35, the XRD patterns of Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG before and after cycling are almost the same, thus indicating that the excellent rechargeability is attributed to the stable structure of the catalyst. According to the results of Figure 5, the outstanding ZAB performance of the Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG material is due to the synergetic coupling effect of Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites. Therefore, the Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG material has excellent potential in ZAB practical applications to replace commercial RuO2 and Pt/C catalysts.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**FIGURE 5** | (A) Open-circuit voltage plots, (B) power density and discharge polarization curves, and (C) specific capacity curves of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG and Pt/C as cathode catalysts of ZABs. (D) Discharging plateaus with current densities from 1 to 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG and  $Pt/C + RuO_2$  for ZABs. (E) Galvanostatic cycling stability at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG and  $Pt/C + RuO_2$  for ZABs.

# 2.5 | Mechanism Investigations and Theoretical Studies

Herein, in situ IR was used to determine the evolution of intermediates, thereby revealing the reaction mechanisms. From the in situ IR spectra for  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG during the OER process, as shown in Figure 6A, the relative vibration intensity of OH\* (OH<sub>ads</sub>) (3600–3800 cm<sup>-1</sup>), O\* (O<sub>ads</sub>) (1500–1700 cm<sup>-1</sup>), and OOH\* (OOH<sub>ads</sub>) (1100–1300 cm<sup>-1</sup>) increases as the voltage becomes more positive, which is mainly due to electrostatic adsorption and the increased local concentration of the corresponding intermediates [56]. Meanwhile, the in situ IR spectra during the ORR process were also monitored and are shown in Figure 6B. The increasing intensity of absorbance at 3200–3500 and 1500–1700 cm<sup>-1</sup> is attributed to the stretching vibration mode of the adsorbed OH group and hydroxyl in  $H_2O$ 

molecules, respectively [34]. In sum, the results of accumulated groups on active sites in in situ IR spectra accurately reflect the OER/ORR processes of  $Fe_5Co_2Ni_{10}$ -SG.

To investigate the OER/ORR catalytic mechanisms and evaluate the vital importance of the preferable synergetic coupling effect between adjacent active sites in the Fe-Co-Ni trimetallic single-atomic sites during the OER/ORR process, DFT calculations were carried out. Initially, models of a SG catalyst and SG based monometallic, bimetallic, and trimetallic single-atom catalysts are constructed. Herein, the structure for a SG catalyst and SG based monometallic single-atom catalysts (Co-SG, Ni-SG, and Fe-SG) is single. However, the structure for SG based bimetallic and trimetallic single-atom catalysts may be multiple. Therefore, the structures for all possibilities of bimetallic and trimetallic single-atom catalysts are constructed, and the

<span id="page-9-0"></span>FIGURE 6 | In situ IR spectra of Fe5Co2Ni10‐SG during (A) OER and (B) ORR processes. Reaction process of FeCoNi‐SG during (C) OER and (D) ORR in DFT calculations. Free‐energy diagrams of SG, Co‐SG, Ni‐SG, Fe‐SG, FeCo‐SG, CoNi‐SG, FeNi‐SG, and FeCoNi‐SG during (E) the OER process and (F) the ORR process. (G) RDS reaction energy barrier for SG, Co‐SG, Ni‐SG, Fe‐SG, FeCo‐SG, CoNi‐SG, FeNi‐SG, and FeCoNi‐SG during OER and ORR processes. DFT calculation study of (H) the DOS plots and (I) the differential charge density diagram of FeCoNi‐SG; yellow and cyan isosurfaces represent charge accumulation and depletion, respectively.

corresponding results of the relative forming energy are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figures S36–[S39.](#page-12-0) From the DFT calculation results of the relative forming energy, FeCo‐SG, CoNi‐SG, FeNi‐SG, and FeCoNi‐SG catalysts are more easily formed due to the lower forming energy. Subsequently, the OER and ORR reaction processes for SG, Co‐SG, Ni‐SG, Fe‐SG, FeCo‐SG, CoNi‐SG, FeNi‐SG, and FeCoNi‐SG are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figures [S40](#page-12-0)–S53 and Figure [6C,D,](#page-9-0) respectively. Figure [6E,F](#page-9-0) shows the free‐energy diagrams of the above catalysts during OER and ORR processes, whereas the corresponding reaction energy barriers of the RDS for the above catalysts are shown in Figure [6G](#page-9-0). According to Figure [6E](#page-9-0)–G, trimetallic single‐atom catalyst FeCoNi‐SG shows the lowest RDS reaction energy barrier, revealing the best catalytic performance. The RDS reaction energy barrier for metallic single‐atom catalysts is lower than that of the SG catalyst, and the RDS reaction energy barrier for bimetallic single‐atom catalysts is lower than that of monometallic single‐atom catalysts; meanwhile, the reaction energy barrier of RDS for trimetallic single‐atom catalysts is lower than that of bimetallic single‐atom catalysts. Above results are in line with the results of the OER and ORR performance, implying the synergetic coupling effect between adjacent active sites in the Fe‐Co‐Ni trimetallic single‐atomic sites. Moreover, the density of states (DOS) plots and the differential charge density diagrams of Co‐SG, Ni‐SG, Fe‐SG, FeCo‐SG, CoNi‐SG, FeNi‐SG, and FeCoNi‐SG are shown in Supporting Information S1: Figures S54–[S59](#page-12-0) and Figure [6H,I,](#page-9-0) whereas the corresponding d band center and the Bader charge of metal centers for different samples are shown in Supporting Information S1: Table [S6](#page-12-0). Among monometallic single‐atom catalysts, the d band center of Fe is closest to the Fermi level, resulting in the strong adsorption of intermediates and difficult desorption of the product; the RDS of Fe‐SG is the step of product desorption. Compared with that of Fe‐SG, the RDS of Co‐SG is the intermediate step because of the departure of the d band center of Co from the Fermi level. For Ni‐SG, the

RDS is the adsorption step of reactant because the d band center of Ni is far from the Fermi level. Charge redistribution occurs in the bimetallic single-atom catalysts because of the synergetic coupling effect between adjacent metal active sites. The charge redistribution promotes the adsorption of intermediates for FeCo-SG, which reduces the reaction energy barrier of the intermediate step to enhance the OER/ORR catalysis activities. For CoNi-SG and FeNi-SG, the adsorption of the OOH\* intermediate is enhanced and the adsorption of the OH\* intermediate is relatively weakened due to the charge redistribution. The effect of charge redistribution is much more obvious for the trimetallic single-atom catalyst. Therefore, the reaction energy barriers of OER/ORR processes for FeCoNi-SG are reduced because of the preferable synergetic coupling effect between adjacent active sites, thereby improving the OER/ORR performance. To sufficiently elucidate the mechanism details controlling the Fe-Co-Ni site synergistic interactions, a comparison of intermediate states during the OER processes for FeCoNi-SG, CoNi-SG, and Ni-SG was performed as an example. From Figure 6E, it is clear that the RDS of Ni-SG for OER is the conversion of OH\* into O\* because the d band center of Ni is far from the Fermi level, whereas the RDS reaction energy barrier is 0.821 eV for Ni-SG. Moreover, the RDS of CoNi-SG for OER is the conversion of H<sub>2</sub>O into OH\* because of the charge redistribution of central metal compared with that of Ni-SG according to Supporting Information S1: Figures S55 and S58, whereas the RDS reaction energy barrier for CoNi-SG is 0.680 eV from Figure 6E. Further charge redistribution occurs in FeCoNi-SG, as can be seen from Supporting Information S1: Figures S55 and S58 and Figure 6I, and thus, the RDS of FeCoNi-SG for OER is the conversion of OH\* into O\*. The RDS reaction energy barrier is 0.226 eV for FeCoNi-SG, as can be seen in Figure 6E due to the charge redistribution between adjacent active sites. Based on the above analysis, the reaction energy barrier of OER processes for FeCoNi-SG is the lowest among FeCoNi-SG, CoNi-SG, and Ni-SG because of the preferable synergetic coupling effect between adjacent active sites. Furthermore, the DFT calculation results are in line with the results of accumulated groups on active sites in in-situ IR spectra for Fe5Co2Ni10-SG during the OER/ORR processes. Consequently, the vital importance of the preferable synergetic coupling effect between adjacent active sites in the Fe-Co-Ni trimetallic single-atomic catalyst and the OER/ORR catalytic mechanisms is revealed by DFT calculations.

### 3 | Conclusions

In summary, phthalocyanine-assembled Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites dispersed on SG were successfully fabricated using a simple ultrasonic technique without calcination. The target catalyst Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG displays lower overpotential (315 mV) (at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) for OER and remarkable  $E_{\rm half-wave}$  (0.924 V) and excellent current density (6.16 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) for ORR, implying a low potential difference ( $\Delta E$ ) of 0.621 V between  $E_{\rm half-wave}$  and  $E_{\rm j10}$ . Additionally, Fe<sub>5</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>10</sub>-SG shows outstanding specific capacity (786 mAh g<sup>-1</sup>), noteworthy maximum power density (139 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>), and excellent rechargeability (discharged/charged at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for more than 1000 h) in ZAB tests. In situ IR and DFT calculations reveal that the excellent

bifunctional ORR/OER and ZAB performances are ascribed to the preferable synergetic coupling effect of Fe-Co-Ni single-atomic triple sites in the catalysts. This study provides an innovative strategy for the fabrication of bifunctional catalysts and provides in-depth insights into the construction of single-atomic multiple sites to enhance the bifunctional ORR/OER performance for ZABs.

### 4 | Experimental Section

Experimental details and characterizations are included in the Supporting Information.

### Acknowledgements

This workstudy was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 22305071, 52472200, 52271176, and 52072114), the 111 Project (Grant No. D17007), Henan Center for Outstanding Overseas Scientists (Grant No. GZS2022017), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (Grant No. 2022M721049), the Henan Province Key Research and Development Project (Grant No. 231111520500), and the Natural Science Foundation of Henan Province (Grant No. 252300421556).

#### **Conflicts of Interest**

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

#### References

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>1. W. Sun, F. Wang, B. Zhang, et al., "A Rechargeable Zinc-Air Battery Based on Zinc Peroxide Chemistry," *Science* 371, no. 6524 (2021): 46–51.
- 2. J. Yang, H. Xu, J. Li, et al., "Oxygen- and Proton-Transporting Open Framework Ionomer for Medium-Temperature Fuel Cells," *Science* 385, no. 6713 (2024): 1115–1120.
- 3. Z. Niu, Y. Gao, T. Wu, et al., "Ultralow Charge-Discharge Voltage Gap of 0.05 V in Sunlight-Responsive Neutral Aqueous Zn-Air Battery," *Carbon Energy* 6, no. 9 (2024): e535.
- 4. Y. Song, L. Xia, M. Salla, et al., "A Hybrid Redox-Mediated Zinc-Air Fuel Cell for Scalable and Sustained Power Generation," *Angewandte Chemie International Edition* 63, no. 16 (2024): e202314796.
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>5. X. Zhong, X. Xiao, Q. Li, et al., "Understanding the Active Site in Chameleon-Like Bifunctional Catalyst for Practical Rechargeable Zinc-Air Batteries," *Nature Communications* 15, no. 1 (2024): 9616.
- 6. Y.-P. Deng, Y. Jiang, R. Liang, et al., "Reconstructing 3d-Metal Electrocatalysts Through Anionic Evolution in Zinc–Air Batteries," *Journal of the American Chemical Society* 145, no. 37 (2023): 20248–20260.
- 7. J. Yu, Y. Dai, Z. Zhang, et al., "Tailoring Structural Properties of Carbon via Implanting Optimal Co Nanoparticles in N-Rich Carbon Cages Toward High-Efficiency Oxygen Electrocatalysis for Rechargeable Zn-Air Batteries," *Carbon Energy* 4, no. 4 (2022): 576–585.
- 8. Y. Li, A. Huang, L. Zhou, et al., "Main-Group Element-Boosted Oxygen Electrocatalysis of Cu-N-C Sites for Zinc-Air Battery With Cycling Over 5000 h," *Nature Communications* 15, no. 1 (2024): 8365.
- 9. Y. Xie, Y. Feng, S. Zhu, et al., "Modulation in Spin State of  ${\rm Co_3O_4}$  Decorated Fe Single Atom Enables a Superior Rechargeable Zinc-Air Battery Performance," *Advanced Materials* 37, no. 5 (2025): 2414801.
- 10. N. Han, W. Zhang, W. Guo, et al., "Designing Oxide Catalysts for Oxygen Electrocatalysis: Insights From Mechanism to Application," *Nano-Micro Letters* 15 (2023): 185.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>11. H. Li, W. Wang, S. Xue, et al., "Superstructure‐Assisted Single‐Atom Catalysis on Tungsten Carbides for Bifunctional Oxygen Reactions," Journal of the American Chemical Society 146, no. 13 (2024): 9124–9133.
- 12. Z. Zheng, C. Wang, P. Mao, et al., "In Situ Formation of Self‐ Antistacking FeCoO<sup>x</sup> on N‐Doped Graphene: A 3D‐on‐2D Nanoarchitecture for Long‐Life Zn–Air Batteries," Carbon Energy 5, no. 3 (2023): e274.
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>13. Y. Song, W. Li, K. Zhang, C. Han, and A. Pan, "Progress on Bifunctional Carbon‐Based Electrocatalysts for Rechargeable Zinc–Air Batteries Based on Voltage Difference Performance," Advanced Energy Materials 14, no. 7 (2024): 2303352.
- 14. X. Li, X. Duan, K. Hua, et al., "Local Tetragonal Distortion of Pt Alloy Catalysts for Enhanced Oxygen Reduction Reaction Efficiency," Carbon Energy 6, no. 7 (2024): e508.
- 15. A. Muthurasu, P. Sampath, T. H. Ko, et al., "Partial Selenium Surface Modulation of Metal Organic Framework Assisted Cobalt Sulfide Hollow Spheres for High Performance Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysis and Rechargeable Zinc–Air Batteries," Applied Catalysis, B: Environmental 330 (2023): 122523.
- 16. N. Han, X. Zhang, C. Zhang, et al., "Lowering the Kinetic Barrier via Enhancing Electrophilicity of Surface Oxygen to Boost Acidic Oxygen Evolution Reaction," Matter 7, no. 3 (2024): 1330–1343.
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>17. H. Liu, L. Jiang, Y. Liu, et al., "Construction of Single‐Atomic Fe and Cu Sites Within Nitrogen/Sulfur Co‐Doped Carbon Matrix for Boosting the Performance of Zinc–Air Batteries," Applied Catalysis B: Environment and Energy 362 (2025): 124705.
- 18. C.‐X. Zhao, X. Liu, J.‐N. Liu, et al., "Inductive Effect on Single‐Atom Sites," Journal of the American Chemical Society 145, no. 50 (2023): 27531–27538.
- 19. Z. Song, J. Li, Q. Zhang, et al., "Progress and Perspective of Single‐ Atom Catalysts for Membrane Electrode Assembly of Fuel Cells," Carbon Energy 5, no. 7 (2023): e342.
- 20. Y. Wang, T. Yang, X. Fan, et al., "Frontispiece: Anchoring Fe Species on the Highly Curved Surface of S and N Co‐Doped Carbonaceous Nanosprings for Oxygen Electrocatalysis and a Flexible Zinc‐Air Battery," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 63, no. 7 (2024): e202313034.
- 21. R. Sui, B. Liu, C. Chen, et al., "Constructing Asymmetric Fe–Nb Diatomic Sites to Enhance ORR Activity and Durability," Journal of the American Chemical Society 146, no. 38 (2024): 26442–26453.
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>22. M. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Su, et al., "In Situ Modulating Coordination Fields of Single‐Atom Cobalt Catalyst for Enhanced Oxygen Reduction Reaction," Nature Communications 15, no. 1 (2024): 1675.
- 23. X. Zhao, Y. Sun, J. Wang, et al., "Regulating d‐Orbital Hybridization of Subgroup‐IVB Single Atoms for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction," Advanced Materials 36, no. 21 (2024): 2312117.
- 24. T. Zhou, Y. Guan, C. He, et al., "Building Fe Atom‐Cluster Composite Sites Using a Site Occupation Strategy to Boost Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction," Carbon Energy 6, no. 3 (2024): e477.
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>25. Y. Wu, X. Wang, B. Tian, W. Shuang, Z. Bai, and L. Yang, "Optimizing Reaction Intermediate Adsorption by Engineering the Coordination Structure of Single‐Atom Fe–N5–C Electrocatalysts for Efficient Oxygen Reduction," Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers 10, no. 14 (2023): 4209–4220.
- 26. C. Chen, Y. Li, A. Huang, et al., "Engineering Molecular Heterostructured Catalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction," Journal of the American Chemical Society 145, no. 39 (2023): 21273–21283.
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>27. J. Balamurugan, P. M. Austeria, J. B. Kim, et al., "Electrocatalysts for Zinc–Air Batteries Featuring Single Molybdenum Atoms in a Nitrogen‐ Doped Carbon Framework," Advanced Materials 35, no. 35 (2023): 2302625.
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>28. Z. Sun, H. Zhang, L. Cao, et al., "Understanding Synergistic Catalysis on Cu‐Se Dual Atom Sites via Operando X‐Ray Absorption

- Spectroscopy in Oxygen Reduction Reaction," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 62, no. 13 (2023): e202217719.
- <span id="page-11-7"></span>29. Z. Li, S. Ji, C. Wang, et al., "Geometric and Electronic Engineering of Atomically Dispersed Copper‐Cobalt Diatomic Sites for Synergistic Promotion of Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysis in Zinc–Air Batteries," Advanced Materials 35, no. 25 (2023): 2300905.
- 30. S. Zhao, M. Liu, Z. Qu, et al., "Cascade Synthesis of Fe–N2–Fe Dual‐ Atom Catalysts for Superior Oxygen Catalysis," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 63, no. 40 (2024): e202408914.
- 31. J. Qiao, Y. You, L. Kong, et al., "Precisely Constructing Orbital‐ Coupled Fe‐Co Dual‐Atom Sites for High‐Energy‐Efficiency Zn–Air/ Iodide Hybrid Batteries," Advanced Materials 36, no. 32 (2024): 2405533.
- <span id="page-11-8"></span>32. Z. Wang, R. Xu, Q. Ye, et al., "Tailoring First Coordination Sphere of Dual‐Metal Atom Sites Boosts Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Activities," Advanced Functional Materials 34, no. 28 (2024): 2315376.
- 33. X. Yi, H. Yang, X. Yang, et al., "Local Single Co Sites at the Second Shell of Fe–N4 Active Sites to Boost Oxygen Reduction Reaction," Advanced Functional Materials 34, no. 9 (2024): 2309728.
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>34. C. Hu, G. Xing, W. Han, et al., "Inhibiting Demetalation of Fe–N–C via Mn Sites for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction in Zinc–Air Batteries," Advanced Materials 36, no. 32 (2024): 2405763.
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>35. L. Hu, H. Chen, M. Ju, A. Hou, K. Xie, and A. Gao, "Self‐Assembled Nanodot Actuator With Changeable Fluorescence by π‐π Stacking Force Based on a Four‐Armed Foldable Phthalocyanine Molecule and Its Supersensitive Molecular Recognition," Nano Letters 22, no. 15 (2022): 6383–6390.
- 36. T. Niu, N. Si, D. Zhou, and M. Zhou, "Submolecular Imaging of Parallel Offset π‐π Stacking in Nonplanar Phthalocyanine Bilayers," Journal of Physical Chemistry C 123, no. 12 (2019): 7178–7184.
- 37. M. Liu, Y. Liu, X. Zhang, et al, "Altering the Symmetry of Fe–N–C by Axial Cl‐Mediation for High‐Performance Zinc–Air Batteries," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 64 (2025): e202504923.
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>38. Z. Chen, X. Peng, Z. Chen, et al., "Mass Production of Sulfur‐Tuned Single‐Atom Catalysts for Zn–Air Batteries," Advanced Materials 35, no. 15 (2023): 2209948.
- 39. M. Zhang, H. Li, J. Chen, et al., "High‐Loading Co Single Atoms and Clusters Active Sites Toward Enhanced Electrocatalysis of Oxygen Reduction Reaction for High‐Performance Zn–Air Battery," Advanced Functional Materials 33, no. 4 (2023): 2209726.
- 40. Q. Jing, Z. Mei, X. Sheng, et al., "Tuning the Bonding Behavior of d‐p Orbitals to Enhance Oxygen Reduction Through Push‐Pull Electronic Effects," Advanced Functional Materials 34, no. 3 (2024): 2307002.
- <span id="page-11-12"></span>41. H. Zhang, H.‐C. Chen, S. Feizpoor, et al., "Tailoring Oxygen Reduction Reaction Kinetics of Fe–N–C Catalyst via Spin Manipulation for Efficient Zinc–Air Batteries," Advanced Materials 36, no. 25 (2024): 2400523.
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>42. H. M. Xu, K. H. Yue, L. J. Song, et al., "The Asymmetrical Fe−O−Se Bonds in Fe2O(SeO3)2 Boosting Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalytic Performance for Zinc–Air Battery," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 63, no. 51 (2024): e202412025.
- <span id="page-11-14"></span>43. Z. Yang, F. Lai, Q. Mao, et al., "Breaking the Mutual‐Constraint of Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysis via Direct O−O Coupling on High‐ Valence Ir Single‐Atom on MnOx," Advanced Materials 37, no. 3 (2025): 2412950.
- <span id="page-11-15"></span>44. H. Zheng, S. Wang, S. Liu, et al., "The Heterointerface Between Fe1/NC and Selenides Boosts Reversible Oxygen Electrocatalysis," Advanced Functional Materials 33, no. 40 (2023): 2300815.
- <span id="page-11-16"></span>45. Y. Wang, J. Wu, S. Tang, et al., "Synergistic Fe−Se Atom Pairs as Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysts Boost Low‐Temperature Rechargeable Zn–Air Battery," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 62, no. 15 (2023): e202219191.

- <span id="page-12-1"></span>46. J. Qiao, C. Lu, L. Kong, et al., "Spin Engineering of Fe–N–C by Axial Ligand Modulation for Enhanced Bifunctional Oxygen Catalysis," Advanced Functional Materials 34, no. 51 (2024): 2409794.
- <span id="page-12-2"></span>47. C. Jiao, Z. Xu, J. Shao, et al., "High‐Density Atomic Fe–N4/C in Tubular, Biomass‐Derived, Nitrogen‐Rich Porous Carbon as Air‐ Electrodes for Flexible Zn–Air Batteries," Advanced Functional Materials 33, no. 20 (2023): 2213897.
- <span id="page-12-3"></span>48. J. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Zhao, et al., "Atomically Dispersed Fe–N4 Bridged With MoO<sup>x</sup> Clusters as a Bifunctional Electrocatalyst for Rechargeable Zn–Air Battery," Advanced Functional Materials 35, no. 9 (2025): 2416215.
- <span id="page-12-4"></span>49. J. Zhu, Z. Li, J. Shao, et al., "Hybrid Nanoalloy‐Cluster‐Single Atom Sites Based Aerophilic Carbon Fiber Membranes as Binder‐Free Cathodes for Ultra‐Long‐Life Zn–air Batteries," Advanced Functional Materials 35, no. 10 (2025): 2416422.
- <span id="page-12-5"></span>50. S. Ding, L. He, L. Fang, et al., "Carbon‐Nanotube‐Bridging Strategy for Integrating Single Fe Atoms and NiCo Nanoparticles in a Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalyst Toward High‐Efficiency and Long‐ Life Rechargeable Zinc–Air Batteries," Advanced Energy Materials 12, no. 48 (2022): 2202984.
- <span id="page-12-6"></span>51. C. Zhou, X. Chen, S. Liu, et al., "Superdurable Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalyst for High‐Performance Zinc–Air Batteries," Journal of the American Chemical Society 144, no. 6 (2022): 2694–2704.
- <span id="page-12-7"></span>52. S. Ji, Y. Mou, H. Liu, et al., "Manipulating the Electronic Properties of an Fe Single Atom Catalyst via Secondary Coordination Sphere Engineering to Provide Enhanced Oxygen Electrocatalytic Activity in Zinc–Air Batteries," Advanced Materials 36, no. 44 (2024): 2410121.
- <span id="page-12-8"></span>53. L. Huo, M. Lv, M. Li, et al., "Amorphous MnO2 Lamellae Encapsulated Covalent Triazine Polymer‐Derived Multi‐Heteroatoms‐ Doped Carbon for ORR/OER Bifunctional Electrocatalysis," Advanced Materials 36, no. 18 (2024): 2312868.
- <span id="page-12-9"></span>54. Y.‐L. Zhang, B. Liu, Y.‐K. Dai, et al., "Engineering Co‐N‐Cr Cross‐ Interfacial Electron Bridges to Break Activity‐Stability Trade‐Off for Superdurable Bifunctional Single Atom Oxygen Electrocatalysts," Angewandte Chemie International Edition 63, no. 15 (2024): e202400577.
- <span id="page-12-10"></span>55. Y. Zhou, R. Lu, X. Tao, et al., "Boosting Oxygen Electrocatalytic Activity of Fe–N–C Catalysts by Phosphorus Incorporation," Journal of the American Chemical Society 145, no. 6 (2023): 3647–3655.
- <span id="page-12-11"></span>56. Y. Hu, Y. Zheng, J. Jin, et al., "Understanding the Sulphur‐Oxygen Exchange Process of Metal Sulphides Prior to Oxygen Evolution Reaction," Nature Communications 14, no. 1 (2023): 1949.

## <span id="page-12-0"></span>Supporting Information

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section.