---
source: Xie 等 - 2021 - Weakening Intermediate Bindings on CuPdPd Coreshell Nanoparticles to Achieve Pt‐Like Bifunctional.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.551s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:40:38.802773Z
---

www.afm-journal.de

# Weakening Intermediate Bindings on CuPd/Pd Core/shell Nanoparticles to Achieve Pt-Like Bifunctional Activity for Hydrogen Evolution and Oxygen Reduction Reactions

Huan Xie, Shaoqing Chen, Jiashun Liang, Tanyuan Wang, Zhufeng Hou,\* Hsing-Lin Wang, Guoliang Chai, and Qing Li\*

Although Pd is a potential substitution of Pt-based catalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), the binding of \*H and oxygenated (\*O, \*OOH, \*OH) intermediates on Pd are stronger than on Pt, leading to its inferior activity for HER and ORR. In this work, CuPd/Pd core/shell nanoparticles with an ultrathin Pd shell (0.5 nm) are developed, which demonstrate the Pt-like bifunctional activity for HER and ORR in acid electrolytes. The overpotential at 350 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER and the half-wave potential for ORR on the optimal CuPd/Pd core/shell NPs are 76 mV and 0.854 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), respectively, which are comparable to that of Pt and among the best of the reported Pd-based catalysts. Density functional theory calculations indicate that the significantly enhanced HER/ORR activity on CuPd/Pd core/shell NPs with 0.5 nm Pd shell stem from the compressive strain induced downshift of d-band center for Pd (by 2.0%), which weakens the binding strength of \*H and oxygenated intermediates and promotes the reaction kinetics.

1. Introduction

Hydrogen is considered as one of the promising substitutions for traditional fossil fuels due to its high energy density (143 kJ g $^{-1}$ ) and renewability. The sustainable hydrogen economy society, which is based on the hydrogen production

Dr. H. Xie, Dr. J. Liang, Prof. T. Wang, Prof. Q. Li State Key Laboratory of Material Processing and Die & Mould Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan, Hubei 430074, China E-mail: qing\_li@hust.edu.cn Dr. H. Xie, Prof. Z. Hou, Prof. G. Chai State Key Laboratory of Structural Chemistry Fujian Institute of Research on the Structure of Matter Chinese Academy of Sciences Fuzhou, Fujian 350002, China E-mail: houzhufeng@fjirsm.ac.cn Dr. S. Chen, Prof. H.-L. Wang Department of Materials Science and Engineering Southern University of Science and Technology Shenzhen, Guangdong 518055, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202100883.

DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202100883

from renewable energy sources and the applications of hydrogen-powered devices such as proton exchange membrane fuel cells, is proposed to mitigate the air pollution and CO2 accumulation caused by the combustion of fossil fuels.<sup>[2]</sup> Among them, the electrochemical hydrogen production from water electrolysis is based on the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), while the hydrogen powered fuel cells is related to oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[3] Pt is the benchmark catalyst for both HER and ORR due to its relatively appropriate binding energy of reaction intermediates (\*H for HER) and oxygenated species for ORR (i.e., \*O, \*OOH, \*OH, \* designates the adsorption site), thereby facilitating the kinetics of HER and ORR.[1a,2a,4] Nevertheless, the scarcity and high cost of Pt hinder the large-scale applications. [1a,4a,c] Therefore, developing new catalysts with

cheaper and lesser amount of noble metals, and with comparable performance to Pt is highly desired for sustainable hydrogen economy.

Developing Pd-based catalysts for HER and ORR have received much attention due to the similar electronic structure of Pd to Pt and its relatively higher abundance. [4c,5] However, the binding of H atoms on Pd is stronger than on Pt,[6] which is detrimental for the release of H<sub>2</sub><sup>[6a]</sup> and results in the larger overpotential of HER on Pd. Similarly, the affinity of \*O is also stronger on Pd than Pt, which retards the desorption of \*OH and leads to inferior ORR activity of Pd to Pt.[4b,7] To regulate the electronic structure and the adsorption property, Pd has been alloyed with other elements to form solid solution structure (Cu,<sup>[8]</sup> Fe,<sup>[9]</sup> Sn,<sup>[10]</sup> Pt,<sup>[11]</sup> Ir,<sup>[12]</sup> Ru,<sup>[13]</sup> etc.), and ordered intermetallic structure (Cu,[14] Sn,[10] and Au,[15] etc.). The Pdbased compounds such as sulfides (Pd<sub>0.1</sub>TaS<sub>2</sub>, [16] PdCuS, [17] and PdCuNiS,[18] etc.), oxides (PdCoO2),[19] phosphides (PdP,[20] and PdNiP, [21] etc.), and borides (Pd<sub>2</sub>B)[22] have also been investigated for HER and ORR. Tuning the strain effect of core/shell nanostructures has been proved as an effective strategy to regulate the binding energy of intermediates by engineering the d-band center of Pt- or Pd-based catalysts for ORR and HER.[23] The proper selection of core/shell compositions and the regulation of shell thickness to control the degree of strain are crucial to achieve the enhanced catalytic property.<sup>[24]</sup> Even though the

strain effect of core/shell structured catalysts (Au/Pd,[23c] Ag/ Pd,[25] and Pt/Pd,[26] etc.) have been developed to enhance the HER or ORR performance of Pd, the Pd-based catalysts with bifunctional performances that are comparable to Pt have rarely been reported.

In this work, 6–8 nm CuPd/Pd core/shell nanoparticles (NPs) have been successfully synthesized and their Pd shell thickness dependent HER and ORR activity are studied. The optimized catalyst with 0.5 nm Pd shell demonstrates Pt-like bifunctional activity for HER and ORR in acid electrolytes. The overpotentials at 10 and 350 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER on CuPd/Pd core/shell NPs with 0.5 nm Pd shell are as low as 10 and 76 mV versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in 0.5 m H2SO4 solution, respectively, and the half-wave potential for ORR on the optimized catalyst is as high as 0.854 V versus RHE in 0.1 m HClO4 solution, which are comparable to the best ever reported Pd-based catalysts. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations suggest that the greatly enhanced HER/ORR activity on CuPd/ Pd core/shell NPs are originated from the lowered d-band center of Pd (by 2.0%) attributing to the compressive strain on the ultrathin Pd shell, which weakens the binding strength of \*H/\*O intermediates and promotes the kinetics for HER and ORR.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

CuPd NPs with different Cu to Pd ratios were synthesized by the reduction of palladium acetylacetone (Pd(Ac)2) in trioctylamine (TOA) solution containing the preformed Cu NPs. The introduction of less Pd(Ac)2 during the preparation process leads to the formation of CuPd alloy NPs (Cu74Pd26 and Cu62Pd38) while further increasing the amount of Pd precursor may induce the deposition of Pd on the surface, which results in the formation of CuPd/Pd core/shell NPs (Cu54Pd46/Pd and Cu47Pd53/Pd) as illustrated in **Figure 1a**. TEM images of Cu, CuPd, and Pd NPs (Figure 1b,c and Figure S1, Supporting Information) indicate that they have narrow size distributions. The size of Cu is about 5–6 nm (Figure 1b). After the incorporation of Pd, the sizes of the obtained Cu74Pd26, Cu62Pd38, core/ shell Cu54Pd46/Pd, and core/shell Cu47Pd53/Pd NPs increase to 6–8 nm (Figure 1c and Figure S1, Supporting Information). Besides, the TEM images of CuPd NPs anchored on carbon support (denoted as CCuPd, Figure S2, Supporting Information) illustrate that they are dispersed evenly without apparent agglomerations.

The XRD pattern of CCu (Figure 1d) matches well with the cubic Cu2O (JCPDS No. 05–0667) peaks due to the oxidation of Cu NPs after exposing in air, and that of CPd catalyst is consistent with the standard peaks of cubic Pd (JCPDS No. 05–0681). Meanwhile, all the CCuPd samples with different Cu to Pd ratios demonstrate the diffraction peaks of CuPd alloy that located between Cu and Pd peaks, and the peaks left shift with the increase of Pd content due to the larger atomic radius of Pd compared to Cu. The EDS elemental mapping images and the line scan results of Cu and Pd in a Cu62Pd38 alloy NP clearly show the CuPd alloy structure (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The HRTEM image of a representative core/shell Cu54Pd46/Pd NP (Figure 1e) reveals the well crystallized lattice fringes in the core with a spacing of 0.212 nm, which is between the values of Pd(111) (0.225 nm) and Cu(111) (0.208 nm), further demonstrating the CuPd alloy core in the Cu54Pd46/Pd NP. Additionally, the EDS elemental mapping images (**Figure 2a**) and line scan signals (Figure 2b) of Cu and Pd in a Cu54Pd46/Pd NP unambiguously demonstrate the core/ shell CuPd/Pd nanostructure with CuPd alloy core, and the thickness of ultrathin Pd shell is ≈0.5 nm. Furthermore, from the spherical aberration calibrated HAADF-STEM image of a representative Cu54Pd46/Pd NP (Figure 2c), it can be observed that the core has more darker sites which can be ascribed to Cu atoms in the CuPd core, as Cu has a lower *Z* contrast than Pd. The outer side is the brighter Pd atoms with 3 layers, which indicates that the thickness of Pd shell is about 0.5 nm and is in accordance with the EDS elemental mapping images and line scan results. For the Cu47Pd53/Pd NPs, the EDS elemental mapping images and line scan signals of Cu and Pd indicate that it also adopts a CuPd/Pd core/shell nanostructure, and the thickness of Pd shell is about 0.9 nm (Figure S4, Supporting Information).

The XPS survey spectra of CCu, CCuPd, and CPd samples only show the signals of Cu, Pd, C, and O elements (Figure 2d). The high-resolution XPS spectra of Cu 2p electrons for CCu and CCuPd samples (Figure 2e) can be deconvolved into four peaks, which correspond to Cu (II) 2p1/2 and 2p3/2 electrons at 954.8 and 934.8 eV and Cu(I)/Cu(0) at 952.8 and 932.8 eV,[24c,27] respectively. The extra peaks between 940 and 945 eV are the satellite peaks of Cu.[24c] For CCu62Pd38, CCu54Pd46/Pd, and CCu47Pd53/Pd samples, the intensity ratio of Cu(II) peaks in contrast to Cu(I)/Cu(0) peaks consecutively decreases with the increase of Pd content. Additionally, the peak positions of Cu(I)/Cu(0) are all shifted to a lower binding energy compared to CCu. These are possibly caused by the modification of the Cu electronic structure after alloying with Pd which mitigates the oxidation of Cu.

The high-resolution Pd 3d XPS spectra (Figure 2f) of CPd and CCuPd samples are composed of Pd 3d3/2 and 3d5/2 peaks for Pd(II) at 342.0 and 336.5 eV, and that of Pd(0) at 340.9 and 335.6 eV,[28] respectively. The peak positions of Pd(0) for CCu62Pd38 are slightly shifted to the lower binding energies compared to that of CPd due to the modified electronic structure of Pd after alloying with Cu. While that for CCu54Pd46/ Pd apparently shifts to the higher binding energy in contrast to CPd, which may be ascribed to the existence of compressive strain in the ultrathin Pd shell (0.5 nm) induced by the CuPd core.[24c,29] For CCu47Pd53/Pd with a thicker Pd shell (0.9 nm), the surface stain effect on Pd shell is not that effective and thus it demonstrates the bulk Pd-like binding energies.[24c]

The unique electronic structure of Cu54Pd46/Pd NPs with an ultrathin 0.5 nm Pd shell leads to a significant enhancement in HER performance. From the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves of CCu, CCuPd, and CPd NP catalysts in Ar-saturated 0.5 m H2SO4 electrolyte (**Figure 3a**), it can be observed that CCu has the lowest activity with the overpotential of 404 mV at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which can be ascribed to its relatively poor binding of \*H.[6b] The overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for CCu74Pd26 and CCu62Pd38 catalysts are 94 and 79 mV, respectively, which are significantly reduced

**Figure 1.** a) Illustration of the formation mechanism of CuPd alloy and CuPd/Pd core/shell NPs (brick-red and white balls represent Cu and Pd atoms, respectively); TEM images of b) Cu and c) Cu54Pd46/Pd NPs, respectively; d) XRD patterns of CCu, CCuPd, and CPd samples; and e) HRTEM image of a representative Cu54Pd46/Pd NP.

compared to pristine CCu due to the improved \*H adsorption on CuPd alloy NPs. Dramatically, the CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst with 0.5 nm Pd shell exhibits superior HER activity to CPd, CCuPd, and even commercial CPt (20 wt%). The overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for CCu54Pd46/Pd, CPt, and CPd are 10, 18, and 110 mV, respectively. While the overpotential at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for CCu47Pd53/Pd catalyst is 132 mV, which is similar to that of CPd. The required overpotential of CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (10 mV) is among the lowest of the reported Pd-based catalysts in the absence of Pt (Table S1, Supporting Information). Additionally, the overpotentials at 20 and 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for CCu54Pd46/ Pd (13 and 15 mV) are also lower than that on CPt (22 and 26 mV) as demonstrated in Figure 3b, which further prove the higher HER activity of CCu54Pd46/Pd than commercial CPt. Besides, the CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst also reveals excellent HER activity at a large current density. The overpotential at 350 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> is as small as 76 mV versus RHE (Figure S5,

**Figure 2.** a) HAADF-STEM image and EDS elemental mapping images of Pd (red), Cu (blue), and Cu and Pd of a Cu54Pd46/Pd NP; b) the EDS line scan signals of Cu and Pd elements across a Cu54Pd46/Pd NP; c) the spherical aberration calibrated HAADF-STEM image of a representative Cu54Pd46/ Pd NP; d) XPS survey spectra of CCu, CCuPd, and CPd samples; e) high-resolution Cu 2p and f) Pd 3d XPS spectra of CCu, CCuPd, and CPd samples.

Supporting Information), and the Pd mass normalized current density reaches 10 567.6 A g−<sup>1</sup> Pd, which is among the best of the reported Pd-based catalysts (Table S1, Supporting Information).

In addition, the overpotential at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of CCu54Pd46/ Pd only increases 7 mV after 10 000 cycles from −0.5 to 0 V versus RHE (Figure 3c), which is comparable to that of commercial CPt (with 8 mV increasement). The morphology of Cu54Pd46/Pd NPs is well preserved without apparent agglomeration after 10 000 cycles (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The EDS elemental mapping images and line scan signals of Cu and Pd elements for Cu54Pd46/Pd core/shell NPs after 10 000 cycles indicate that the CuPd/Pd core/ shell nanostructure is well preserved and the thickness of Pd shell is kept at ≈0.5 nm (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Besides, the large current density of CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst is well remained for 23.5 h potentiostatic stability test at 72 mV versus RHE with a current density of about 300 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure 3d). The current density starts to decrease after 23.5 h and achieves ≈225 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> after 30 h (Figure S8a, Supporting Information). While it has been noticed that the current density can be restored to ≈265 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> by refreshing the electrolyte after stability test (Figure S8b, Supporting Information), which indicates that the decreased current density after 23.5 h test is mainly caused by the depletion of H+ in the electrolyte (the volume of electrolyte in the cathode compartment is 40 mL). These results testify that the CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst is robust for long term and large current density operations. The calculated Tafel slop of CCu54Pd46/Pd is 34 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure 3e), which is comparable to that of CPt (32 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) and close to the theoretical value of 29.5 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , indicating www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

Figure 3. a) HER polarization curves of C-Cu, C-Cu-Pd, C-Pd, and C-Pt catalysts in Ar-saturated 0.5  $\,$  M  $\,$  H $_2$ SO $_4$  electrolyte with the scan rate of 2 mV s $^{-1}$ ; b) the required overpotential at 10, 20, and 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  on C-Cu $_{54}$ Pd $_{46}$ /Pd and C-Pt catalysts, c) the HER polarization curves of C-Cu $_{54}$ Pd $_{46}$ /Pd and C-Pt catalysts before and after 10 000 potential cycles from -0.5 to 0 V versus RHE; d) the potentiostatic stability of C-Cu $_{54}$ Pd $_{46}$ /Pd catalyst at -0.072 V versus RHE for 23.5 h; e) the Tafel slopes of the studied catalysts for HER; and f) CV curves of C-Pd, C-Cu $_{62}$ Pd $_{38}$ , and C-Cu $_{54}$ Pd $_{46}$ /Pd catalysts in Ar-saturated 0.5  $\,$  M H $_2$ SO $_4$  electrolyte with scan rate of 50 mV s $^{-1}$ . The potentials are iR compensated.

that the Tafel reaction ( $2*H \leftrightarrow H_2 + 2*$ ) is the rate-limiting step during HER.<sup>[1a]</sup> This value is much reduced compared to other C–Cu–Pd (the Tafel slops for C–Cu<sub>74</sub>Pd<sub>26</sub>, C–Cu<sub>62</sub>Pd<sub>38</sub>, and C–Cu<sub>47</sub>Pd<sub>53</sub>/Pd catalysts are 107, 83, and 101 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively) and C–Pd (86 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) counterparts, which are close to 118 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and illuminate that both Volmer and Heyrovsky/Tafel reactions are related to the kinetics of the HER process.<sup>[1a]</sup>

The greatly enhanced HER activity on  $C-Cu_{54}Pd_{46}/Pd$  catalyst can be attributed to the weakened \*H binding property. From the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of C-Pd,  $C-Cu_{62}Pd_{38}$ , and  $C-Cu_{54}Pd_{46}/Pd$  catalysts (Figure 3f), it can be observed that the reduction potential of  $Pd^{2+}$  to Pd for pristine C-Pd is at 0.67 V versus RHE, and that of  $C-Cu_{62}Pd_{38}$  catalyst shifts to a lower potential (0.62 V versus RHE) due to the modified electronic structure of Pd after alloying with Cu. In contrast, the reduction potential of  $Pd^{2+}$  on the  $C-Cu_{54}Pd_{46}/Pd$  catalyst shifts to higher potential (0.72 V versus RHE) compared

to C–Pd, further testifying that the compressive strain in the ultrathin Pd shell of C–Cu<sub>54</sub>Pd<sub>46</sub>/Pd catalyst changes the electronic structure of the Pd shell, as evidenced in the XPS spectra. Additionally, the binding potential of H atoms on C–Pd and C–Cu<sub>62</sub>Pd<sub>38</sub> catalysts appear at about 0.14 V versus RHE, while that for C–Cu<sub>54</sub>Pd<sub>46</sub>/Pd catalyst decreases to 0.05 V versus RHE, which is comparable to that of C–Pt (0.07 V versus RHE, Figure S9, Supporting Information). The weakened binding of H atoms on C–Cu<sub>54</sub>Pd<sub>46</sub>/Pd with 0.5 nm ultrathin Pd shell catalyst is beneficial to the release of H<sub>2</sub> during HER process.

To illuminate the influence of compressive strain in the ultrathin Pd shell (0.5 nm) of C–Cu $_{54}$ Pd $_{46}$ /Pd NPs on HER processes, we have carried out DFT simulations using the slab model for the hydrogen adsorption on several related surface systems. The top and side views of Cu(111), Pd(111), CuPd(111), CuPd(111)/1Pd (with 1 monolayer Pd shell), and CuPd(111)/3Pd (with 3 monolayers Pd shell) slabs simulated herein are

**Figure 4.** a) The top views of Cu(111), Pd(111), CuPd(111), and CuPd(111)/1Pd (with 1 monolayer Pd shell) slabs with H adsorbed (yellow, blue, and white balls represent Cu, Pd, and H atoms, respectively); b) the adsorption Gibbs free energy of hydrogen on Cu(111), Pd(111), CuPd(111), CuPd(111)/1Pd, and CuPd(111)/3Pd (with 3 monolayers Pd shell) surfaces; c–f) the partial density of states (DOS) of atoms in the topmost layer of Cu(111), Pd(111), CuPd(111), and CuPd(111)/1Pd surfaces.

presented in **Figure 4a** and Figures S10 and S11, Supporting Information. The compressive strain in the ultrathin Pd shell of CuPd(111)/1Pd is calculated to be 5.6% according to the crystal parameter mismatch between Pd shell and CuPd core. The adsorption Gibbs free energy of \*H on the CuPd(111)/1Pd surface is only −0.01 eV (Figure 4b). This implies the largely reduced binding strength of hydrogen on CuPd/1Pd core/shell surface compared to Pd (−0.11 eV). Additionally, the adsorption Gibbs free energy of \*H on CuPd/1Pd core/shell surface is much closer to 0 eV than that on Cu, CuPd, and CuPd/3Pd surfaces (0.21, 0.03, and −0.026 eV, respectively), further indicating the enhanced HER activity of CuPd/1Pd core/shell nanostructure for HER. The adsorption Gibbs free energy of \*H on CuPd(111)/3Pd surface is smaller than that of the CuPd and Pd surfaces, while the Cu47Pd53/Pd catalyst shows the lower HER activity than CuPd alloy and Pure Pd NPs. This is probably due to the fact that the Cu47Pd53/Pd NPs has the short range order but without long range order, as can be seen from the HRTEM image and XRD pattern (Figures S12 and S13, Supporting Information), while the DFT simulation employs the model with long range order (CuPd/3Pd, Figures S10 and S11, Supporting Information). Therefore, it is difficult to simulate the exact condition of Cu47Pd53/Pd NPs using DFT because they are without long range order. We should point out that the employed atomic models of CuPd(111)/1Pd and CuPd(111)/3Pd catch one of the most important structure features in the Cu54Pd46/Pd and Cu47Pd53/Pd NPs, that is, the different thicknesses of Pd shell in these two NPs. Besides, by comparing the DFT results of adsorption Gibbs free energy of \*H on CuPd/1Pd (−0.01 eV) and CuPd/3Pd (−0.026 eV), we can observe that the binding strength of \*H on CuPd/3Pd is increased compared to CuPd/1Pd, and would approach to the case of pure Pd surface, which is accordant with the strain effect theory and experimental test results.

In addition, the calculated partial density of states (DOS) of atoms in the topmost layer of different surfaces is presented

**Figure 5.** a) CV curves of CCu54Pd46/Pd and CPt (20 wt% Pt) catalysts in N2-saturated 0.1 m HClO4 with scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ; b) ORR polarization curves of CCuPd, CPd, and CPt catalysts in 0.1 m HClO4 with scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ; c) the stability tests of CCu54Pd46/Pd and CPt catalysts before and after 10 000 cycles from 0.6 to 1 V; d) the mass activity of CCuPd and CPt catalysts at 0.9 V; e) the reaction Gibbs free energies at *U* = 0 V and pH = 0 for ORR on Cu(111), Pd(111), CuPd(111), CuPd(111)/1Pd, and CuPd(111)/3Pd surfaces, the insets are the top views of CuPd(111)/1Pd surfaces with intermediates (\*OOH, \*O, and \*OH) adsorbed (yellow, blue, red, and white balls represents Cu, Pd, O, and H atoms, respectively).

in Figure 4c–f. The 3d states of Cu atom in the topmost layer of Cu(111) surface are fully occupied, while the 4d states of Pd atom in the topmost layer of Pd(111) surface are partially occupied. Moreover, the width of Cu 3d states is much narrower than that of Pd 4d states. It is known that the fully occupied d states of metal atom may result in electron filling of the antibonding states between the metal d orbitals and H 1*s* one, which is unfavorable for hydrogen adsorption. These differences in electronic structures lead to a much weaker hydrogen binding strength of Cu(111) surface than that on Pd(111) surface. Because of the alloy effect (or the orbital hybridization), the fully occupied 3d states of Cu atom in the topmost layer of CuPd(111) surface tend to shift up toward the Fermi level, while the Pd 4d states tend to shift below the Fermi level compared with those in the pure Cu(111) and Pd(111) surfaces. From Figure 4e,f, we can find that the width and occupancy of Pd 4d states in the topmost layer of CuPd(111)/1Pd surface are further tuned as compared to the CuPd(111) surface. We have also calculated the d-band centers of Pd atoms in the topmost layer of Pd(111), CuPd(111), and CuPd(111)/1Pd surfaces which are −7.2, −6.986, and −7.346 eV with respect to the vacuum level (Table S2, Supporting Information), respectively. This indicates a down-shift for the d-band center of CuPd(111)/1Pd surface for 2.0% compared to Pd(111), which can be ascribed to the unique CuPd(111)1/Pd nanostructure that imposes compressive stain in the ultrathin Pd shell. The lowered d-band center is beneficial to weaken the binding of \*H on CCu54Pd46/Pd core/shell NPs with ultrathin Pd shell (0.5 nm) so as to promote H2 formation for HER.

The CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst also demonstrates Pt-like activity for ORR. The CV curve of CCu54Pd46/Pd resembles to that of CPt in N2-saturated 0.1 m HClO4 (**Figure 5a**). In ORR polarization curves (Figure 5b), the half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of CCu54Pd46/Pd is 0.854 V, which is significantly increased

compared to CCu74Pd26 (0.689 V), CCu62Pd38 (0.774 V), CCu47Pd53/Pd (0.745 V), and CPd (0.705 V). Importantly, the gap between the *E*1/2 of CCu54Pd46/Pd and CPt (0.876 V) catalysts is only 22 mV, which testifies the Pt-like activity of CCu54Pd46/Pd for ORR. Additionally, the *E*1/2 of CCu54Pd46/ Pd catalyst only decreases 9 mV after 10 000 cycles from 0.6 to 1.0 V (Figure 5c), which illustrates its excellent stability for ORR. The calculated mass activity of CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst for ORR at 0.9 V is 0.39 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pd (Figure 5d), which is 1.22 times of CPt (0.32 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pt).

DFT simulations have been performed to shed further light on the greatly enhanced ORR activity of CCu54Pd46/Pd (Figure 5e). The binding energy of \*O intermediate (Δ*E*O) on CuPd(111)/1Pd core/shell surface (1.480 eV) is the highest compared to the Cu(111) (0.746 eV), Pd(111) (1.136 eV), CuPd(111) (1.345 eV), and CuPd(111)/3Pd (1.348 eV) (Table S3, Supporting Information). It indicates the weakened \*O binding on CuPd(111)/1Pd surface, which is originated from the lowered d-band center of Pd for CuPd(111)/1Pd core/shell nanostructure. Furthermore, the reaction Gibbs free energies (at *U* = 0 V and pH = 0) of the limiting step during ORR processes on Cu(111), Pd(111), CuPd(111), CuPd(111)/1Pd, and CuPd(111)/3Pd surfaces are −0.140, −0.491, −0.582, −0.655, and −0.584 eV, respectively. Hence the CuPd(111)/1Pd core/shell surface would have the lowest overpotential (i.e., 0.575 V), which further proves the outstanding ORR performance of CCu54Pd46/Pd core/shell NPs with 0.5 nm thin Pd shell.

# **3. Conclusions**

In summary, 6–8 nm Cu54Pd46/Pd core/shell NPs with an ultrathin 0.5 nm Pd shell are prepared and demonstrate much enhanced HER and ORR activities compared to that of Pd, CuPd alloy, and Cu47Pd53/Pd with thicker Pd shell (0.9 nm) in acids. The overpotentials at 10 and 350 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER on CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst are only 10 and 76 mV versus RHE, respectively, while the *E*1/2 for ORR on CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst is 0.854 V versus RHE, which are one the best among the reported Pd-based catalysts. In addition, the CCu54Pd46/Pd catalyst also demonstrates robust stability for HER and ORR. DFT calculations indicate that the significantly enhanced HER/ ORR activity on CuPd/Pd core/shell catalyst can be ascribed to the compressive strain induced downshift of d-band center for Pd (by 2.0%), which weakens the binding strength of \*H and oxygenated intermediates and promotes the reaction kinetics.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

H.X. and S.C. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by National Nature Science Foundation of China (21972051). The authors thank the Analytical and Testing Center of Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST) for carrying out the ICP-MS, XPS and XRD measurements.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

# **Keywords**

CuPd/Pd core/shell nanostructure, hydrogen evolution reaction, oxygen reduction reaction, Pt-like activity, strain effect

> Received: January 27, 2021 Revised: March 20, 2021 Published online:

- [1] a) T. Wang, H. Xie, M. Chen, A. D'Aloia, J. Cho, G. Wu, Q. Li, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *42*, 69; b) W. Zhou, J. Jia, J. Lu, L. Yang, D. Hou, G. Li, S. Chen, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *28*, 29; c) L. Yang, P. Liu, J. Li, B. Xiang, *Catalysts* **2017**, *7*, 285; d) H. Zhang, Q. Jiang, J. H. L. Hadden, F. Xie, D. J. Riley, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, 2008989; e) R. Q. Yao, Y. T. Zhou, H. Shi, W. B. Wan, Q. H. Zhang, L. Gu, Y. F. Zhu, Z. Wen, X. Y. Lang, Q. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, 2009613.
- [2] a) X. Zou, Y. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 5148; b) M. Zeng, Y. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 14942; c) X. Liu, M. Gong, S. Deng, T. Zhao, T. Shen, J. Zhang, D. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, 2009032; d) L. Wu, L. Yu, F. Zhang, B. McElhenny, D. Luo, A. Karim, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *31*, 2006484.
- [3] Q. Li, S. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *29*, 178.
- [4] a) Z. Pu, I. S. Amiinu, Z. Kou, W. Li, S. Mu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 11559; b) I. Katsounaros, S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin, K. J. Mayrhofer, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 102; c) M. Liu, R. Zhang, W. Chen, *Chem. Rev.* **2014**, *114*, 5117.
- [5] L. Zhang, Q. Chang, H. Chen, M. Shao, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *29*, 198.
- [6] a) Y. Li, S. Chen, R. Long, H. Ju, Z. Wang, X. Yu, F. Gao, Z. Cai, C. Wang, Q. Xu, J. Jiang, J. Zhu, L. Song, Y. Xiong, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *34*, 306; b) J. K. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, J. R. Kitchin, J. G. Chen, S. Pandelov, U. Stimming, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2005**, *152*, J23.
- [7] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.
- [8] a) J. Wu, S. Shan, J. Luo, P. Joseph, V. Petkov, C. J. Zhong, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 25906; b) R. Jana, A. Bhim, P. Bothra, S. K. Pati, S. C. Peter, *ChemSusChem* **2016**, *9*, 2922; c) X. Zhang, D. Wu, D. Cheng, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *246*, 572.
- [9] X. Li, X. Li, C. Liu, H. Huang, P. Gao, F. Ahmad, L. Luo, Y. Ye, Z. Geng, G. Wang, R. Si, C. Ma, J. Yang, J. Zeng, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 1403.
- [10] J. Liang, S. Li, Y. Chen, X. Liu, T. Wang, J. Han, S. Jiao, R. Cao, Q. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *31*, 15665.
- [11] F. Chang, Z. Bai, M. Li, M. Ren, T. Liu, L. Yang, C. J. Zhong, J. Lu, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 2416.
- [12] C. Wang, H. Xu, H. Shang, L. Jin, C. Chen, Y. Wang, M. Yuan, Y. Du, *Inorg. Chem.* **2020**, *59*, 3321.
- [13] D. Zhang, H. Zhao, B. Huang, B. Li, H. Li, Y. Han, Z. Wang, X. Wu, Y. Pan, Y. Sun, X. Sun, J. Lai, L. Wang, *ACS Cent. Sci.* **2019**, *5*, 1991.
- [14] K. Jiang, P. Wang, S. Guo, X. Zhang, X. Shen, G. Lu, D. Su, H. Xiaoqing, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 9030.

- [15] S. Yin, Z. Xie, X. Deng, W. Xuan, Y. Duan, S. Zhang, Y. Liang, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2020**, *856*, 113707.
- [16] D. Wang, X. Wang, Y. Lu, C. Song, J. Pan, C. Li, M. Sui, W. Zhao, F. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 22618.
- [17] W. Xu, S. Zhu, Y. Liang, Z. Cui, X. Yang, A. Inoue, H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 18793.
- [18] X. Yang, W. Xu, S. Cao, S. Zhu, Y. Liang, Z. Cui, X. Yang, Z. Li, S. Wu, A. Inoue, L. Chen, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *246*, 156.
- [19] F. Podjaski, D. Weber, S. Zhang, L. Diehl, R. Eger, V. Duppel, E. Alarcón-Lladó, G. Richter, F. Haase, A. Fontcuberta i Morral, C. Scheu, B. V. Lotsch, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *3*, 55.
- [20] T. Xia, M. Zhao, B. Tong, Z. Kang, Y. Wu, W. Ding, B. Feng, *Nano* **2019**, *14*, 1950059.
- [21] M. Zhao, Y. Wu, W. Cai, T. Xia, W.-J. Jiang, W. Ding, J.-P. Cao, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2019**, *44*, 31053.
- [22] L. Chen, L.-R. Zhang, L.-Y. Yao, Y.-H. Fang, L. He, G.-F. Wei, Z.-P. Liu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 3099.
- [23] a) E. Toyoda, R. Jinnouchi, T. Hatanaka, Y. Morimoto, K. Mitsuhara, A. Visikovskiy, Y. Kido, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2011**, *115*, 21236; b) M. H. Shao, T. Huang, P. Liu, J. Zhang, K. Sasaki, M. B. Vukmirovic, R. R. Adzic, *Langmuir* **2006**, *22*, 10409; c) Z. Zong, K. Xu, D. Li, Z. Tang, W. He, Z. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Tian, *J. Catal.* **2018**, *361*, 168; d) C. Wu, H. Li, H. He, Y. Song, C. Bi, W. Du, H. Xia,

- *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 46902; e) W. Jiao, C. Chen, W. You, G. Chen, S. Xue, J. Zhang, J. Liu, Y. Feng, P. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Wen, R. Che, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *262*, 118298; f) J. Liang, N. Li, Z. Zhao, L. Ma, X. Wang, S. Li, X. Liu, T. Wang, Y. Du, G. Lu, J. Han, Y. Huang, D. Su, Q. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 15471; g) J. Liang, Z. Zhao, N. Li, X. Wang, S. Li, X. Liu, T. Wang, G. Lu, D. Wang, B. J. Hwang, Y. Huang, D. Su, Q. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2000179.
- [24] a) K. Jiang, H.-X. Zhang, S. Zou, W.-B. Cai, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 20360; b) L. A. Kibler, A. M. El-Aziz, R. Hoyer, D. M. Kolb, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2005**, *44*, 2080; c) H. Xie, S. Chen, F. Ma, J. Liang, Z. Miao, T. Wang, H.-L. Wang, Y. Huang, Q. Li, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 36996.
- [25] Y.-Y. Liu, H.-P. Zhang, B. Zhu, H.-W. Zhang, L.-D. Fan, X.-Y. Chai, Q.-L. Zhang, J.-H. Liu, C.-X. He, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *283*, 221.
- [26] X.-X. Lin, A.-J. Wang, K.-M. Fang, J. Yuan, J.-J. Feng, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5*, 8675.
- [27] Q. Li, J. Fu, W. Zhu, Z. Chen, B. Shen, L. Wu, Z. Xi, T. Wang, G. Lu, J.-j. Zhu, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 4290.
- [28] H. Tao, X. Sun, S. Back, Z. Han, Q. Zhu, A. W. Robertson, T. Ma, Q. Fan, B. Han, Y. Jung, Z. Sun, *Chem. Sci.* **2018**, *9*, 483.
- [29] E. L. Clark, C. Hahn, T. F. Jaramillo, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 15848.