---
source: Xie 等 - 2019 - From Supramolecular Species to Self‐Templated Porous Carbon and Metal‐Doped Carbon for Oxygen Reduct.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 15.365s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:39:51.249578Z
---

## **Akzeptierter Artikel**

**Titel:** From Supramolecules to Self-Templated Porous Carbon and Metal-Doped Carbon Catalysts

Autoren: Jin Xie, Bo-Quan Li, Hong-Jie Peng, Yun-Wei Song, Jia-Xing Li, Ze-Wen Zhang, and Qiang Zhang

Dieser Beitrag wurde nach Begutachtung und Überarbeitung sofort als "akzeptierter Artikel" (Accepted Article; AA) publiziert und kann unter Angabe der unten stehenden Digitalobjekt-Identifizierungsnummer (DOI) zitiert werden. Die deutsche Übersetzung wird gemeinsam mit der endgültigen englischen Fassung erscheinen. Die endgültige englische Fassung (Version of Record) wird ehestmöglich nach dem Redigieren und einem Korrekturgang als Early-View-Beitrag erscheinen und kann sich naturgemäß von der AA-Fassung unterscheiden. Leser sollten daher die endgültige Fassung, sobald sie veröffentlicht ist, verwenden. Für die AA-Fassung trägt der Autor die alleinige Verantwortung.

**Zitierweise:** Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 10.1002/anie.201814605 Angew. Chem. 10.1002/ange.201814605

Link zur VoR: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201814605 http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201814605

# **From Supramolecules to Self-Templated Porous Carbon and Metal-Doped Carbon Catalysts**

Jin Xie+, Bo-Quan Li+, Hong-Jie Peng+, Yun-Wei Song, Jia-Xing Li, Ze-Wen Zhang, and Qiang Zhang\*

**Abstract:** The fabrication of carbon materials usually involves the decomposition of precursors and the reorganization of as-generated fragments. However, the cleavage of bonds and formation of new bonds at nearly identical spatio-temporal scale prevent effective yet precise fabrication. Herein, a supramolecular precursor, cucurbit[6]uril, that integrates multiple bonds with distinct bond strengths was proposed to decouple the twin problem of simultaneous bond cleavage and formation, rendering multistage transformations to hierarchical porous carbon (SC) and metal-doped carbon (SC-M) materials in a single yet effective pyrolysis step without the assist of any template or additional purification. As a proof-of-concept, the asfabrication SC-Fe electrocatalysts realized a Pt/C-like half-wave potential of 0.869 V vs. RHE and small Tafel slope of 51.3 mV dec−1 in oxygen reduction reaction. This work not only provides an alternative yet controllable approach to fabricate atomically dispersed electrocatalysts but also sheds a light on the understanding of pyrolysis synthesis and rational design of carbon-based materials via precursor bond engineering.

Carbon materials is a broad family of easily accessible yet structurally tunable materials that have been widely employed in various applications such as energy storage, adsorption, and catalysis.[1] Enormous efforts have been dedicated to its controllable synthesis toward specific structures and properties, i.e. porosity and conductivity.[2] Among the preparation methods, the precursor pyrolysis approach gains the most attention due to its simplicity and tunability.[3] Generally, this synthetic method involves the decomposition of precursors and the reorganization of as-generated fragments, concretely, the cleavage of C–C/C– H/C–X (X represents a nonmetal element) bonds and formation of new bonds (mainly sp2 C–C bonds for graphitic carbon).[4] However, the bond cleavage/formation commonly occurs at nearly identical spatio-temporal scale because of the comparable bond strengths. The simultaneous bond breaking and rebuilding always induce drastic local changes in structure and heat, resulting structural collapse of pyrolytic intermediates and final products, as well as loss of desirable features and properties (like high surface area, large pore volume, and heteroatom dopants).[5] Various hard and soft templates were therefore designed to stabilize the intermediates and control the final product structure. [6] However, the cost of these templates and complicated multistep fabrication including intractable template removal always remain a problem for applications. Hence, it is practically promising to develop template-free or self-templated method toward new carbon materials and fundamentally interesting to decipher related pyrolysis mechanism.[7]

From a molecular perspective, the template-free synthesis of carbon materials relies on decoupling the twin problem of spatiotemporally identical bond cleavage and formation. In this regard, extra bonds were designed to precursors through either smallmolecule crosslinking or backbone conjugation to form a rigid precursor framework.[8] Nevertheless, these previous attempts resulted in mostly microporous carbon that hardly contains mesopores owing to the short distance between these rigid conjunctions. If long-range interactions with bond strengths distinct from C–C/C–H/C–X bonds are included for precursor design, well-designed mesoporous or hierarchically porous carbon via template-free pyrolysis can be achieved.

In this contribution, supramolecules, in which covalently constructed organic units are orderly organized by weak intermolecular interactions, serve as ideal precursors for controllable template-free synthesis of porous carbon (supramolecule-derived carbon, SC) and metal-doped carbon materials (SC-M, M represent a transition metal). Cucurbit[6]uril (CB6) supramolecular crystal is herein selected as a proof-ofconcept precursor because of its highly ordered structure and extraordinary thermal stability.[9] CB6 is a bucket-like macrocyclic oligomer consist of methylene (–CH2–) bridged glycoluril (=C4H2N4O2=) monomers. On one hand, glycoluril carbonyls allow the formation of long-range hydrogen-bonded supramolecular framework; on the other hand, symmetrically distributed methylidynes are an ideal hydrocarbon precursor for graphitization. Specifically, hydrogen bonds between the carbonyl oxygen and lateral C–H groups guide a hexagonal structure with every one-dimensional (1-D) micropore channel surrounded by six rows of CB6 (**Figure S1**). Guest molecules or ions can be easily encapsulated in these micropores with atomic dispersion, benefiting further functionalization of carbon with heteroatoms or atomically dispersed clusters.[9a]

In the as-prepared supramolecular CB6 precursor (**Figure S2**a), chemical bonds with various strengths are integrated, including intermolecular hydrogen bonds (several kJ mol−1) and covalent bonds (70 to more than 100 kJ mol−1). Consequently, as the temperature gradually increased during the pyrolysis, the cleavage and formation of each class of bonds can be spatiotemporally decoupled as thermal and spectroscopic effects suggest.[10] Before 200oC, a dehydration and degassing process was detected with a weight loss of 7.2%, corresponding to residual water, solvent, and HCl in the micropores (**Figure 1**a).[11] From 200 to 400oC, only a minor weight loss of 2.1% could be detected, corresponding to some small molecules like CO and CNH fragments (**Figure S3**a). However, the specific thermal capacity increased simultaneously, indicating a continuous structural change within the bulk phase. The color of CB6 crystal all changed from white to yellow brown (**Figure S4**). This may be attributed to that at this temperature range, the weak intermolecular interactions between polar groups at the edge of

Beijing 100084 (P.R. China)

E-mail: zhang-qiang@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn

1

<sup>[</sup>a] J. Xie,[+] B.-Q. Li,[+] Dr. H.-J. Peng,[+] Y.-W. Song, J.-X. Li, Z.-W. Zhang, Prof. Q. Zhang Beijing Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Reaction Engineering and Technology, Department of Chemical Engineering Tsinghua University

<sup>[+]</sup> These authors contributed equally to this work Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

CB6 become unstable and are partially cleaved to reassemble CB6 into a covalent framework through crosslinking. The main supramolecular structure was still remained as X-ray diffraction (XRD) indicated, while minor distortions are detected by the peak drift and broadening (**Figure S5**).

**Figure 1.** The pyrolysis process and mechanism for SC sythesis. a) The thermogravimetric (TG) curve and corresponding differential scanning calorimeteric (DSC) profile of supramolecular CB6. b) The mass spectrometric (MS) signal of pyrolytic fragments with different mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) at different temperature during the pyrolysis. c) Schematic illustration of the proposed multi-stage pyrolysis mechanism.

From 400 to 500oC, the bulk phase began to degrade and shrink steadily, followed by a series of rearrangement of residual framework. There are two endothermic stages of weight loss, indicating a step-by-step phase transformation and conformal pore reconstitution. Synchronized MS was employed to monitor the temperature-dependent variation of gaseous fragments (Figure 1b). These fragments include ions with m/z of 26–30, 39– 43 (except 40 that represents Ar+), 52–57, and 65–70 to represent residues with 2, 3, 4, and 5 main atoms (C, N, and O except H). At the first stage (around 450oC), fragments with low m/z dominate, indicating (C, N, O)2 species including CO+ (m/z=28) and HCN+ (m/z=27) as the main products. (C, N, O)3 species such as CONH+ (m/z=43) could also be detected (Figure S3b). These molecules are departed from the carbonyl and CH2N groups (Figure 1c). At the second stage, the intensities of ion fragments are relatively stronger, corresponding to the main weight loss of 44.1%. Many larger fragments are detected, including those with 3 and 4 main atoms such as CONH+ (m/z=43) and CONHCH2 + (m/z=57), indicating the ring-opening of CB6 to volatilize N, O-rich fragments and leave C-rich backbones with reactive ends. These ends attached to each other and formed new C–C bonds (Figure S3c). The vigorous volatilization herein thinned the molecular walls within a rigid pre-formed framework, effectively resulting in uniform expansion of micropores and their merging into mesopores.

At the beginning of the final stage (after 600oC), the material was already a carbon material that had lost the most of volatile elements. The D and G band in the Raman spectrum of the sample treated at 700oC clearly validate the sp2 C–C structure (**Figure S6**).[12] From 700 to 800oC, the broad endothermic peak in the DSC curve (Figure 1a), along with a narrowed Raman G band, indicates the gradual graphitization. A slightly increased intensity ratio of the D to the G band, and a major upshift of the G band from 1562 to 1581 cm−1 further evident the phase change from the dominant sp2 amorphous carbon towards nanocrystalline graphitic carbon (**Table S1**).[13] There is no major phase transformation and thermal effect but only a slight weight loss over 900oC. The continues minor blue shifts in Raman G band are attributed to the constant loss of dopants under heating.[13] N2 isotherms and corresponding pore size distribution reveals the dominant mesoporosity with a pore size of 3−8 nm (**Figure 2**a and b). However, the volume of mesoporosity decreased by half for the samples treated up to from 700 to 900oC, with a decline of the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area from 1088 to 738 m2 g−1, indicating a slight occlusion corresponding to the graphitization during the continuous thermal treatment (**Table S2**). The final product, SC, preserved the rhombic shape of the CB6 precursor (Figure S2b) and exhibited dominant mesoporosity that is in accordance with N2 isotherm (Figure 2c and d). Hence, the supramolecular approach well demonstrates an effective yet robust self-templated synthesis toward porous carbon that could be further modulated in structure and surface chemistry owing to the easy functionalization of supramolecular precursors.

**Figure 2.** The mesoporosity and morphology of SC. a) The N2 isotherm and (b) corresponding pore size distribution of SC materials prepared at different temperatures (The value in the legend refers to the Celsius temperature). c) The TEM image and d) zoomed in image of SC prepared at 900oC

Very recently, atomically dispersed metal in carbon constitutes an important class of electrocatalysts for key applications such as fuel cells, water splitting, and carbon dioxide fixation.[14] Compared with bulk metal catalysts, atomically dispersed metal or metal-doped carbon possesses distinct electronic structure and fully exposed active sites, rendering catalytic reactions better reactivity and selectivity.[15] Specifically, M–N–C catalysts exhibited comparable activity to commercial Pt/C electrocatalysts in oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) that is the cornerstone for fuel cell and metal–air battery applications.[16] Nevertheless, the fabrication of M–N–C is complicated and

challenging as less active bulk metal and metal carbide impurities are usually presented in the product and need to be removed to fully exert high activity of M–N–C.[17] Considering the superior framework stability during pyrolysis, metal-coordinated supramolecules are expected to be an ideal precursor toward simple yet effective synthesis of high active metal-doped carbon catalysts without additional extensive purification.

**Figure 3.** Atomic dispersion of metal in SC. a) The HAADF image of SC-Fe, of which partial metal atomic sites are circled, b) the EDS mapping corresponding to the HAADF figure, and c) the line sweeping across a metal site (circled in a) of Fe K EDS signal and HAADF intensity. d) XPS Fe 2p and N 1s spectra. The peaks in N 1s spectra are assigned to pyridinic (398.3 eV), pyrrolic (400.3 eV), graphitic (401.1 eV), and oxidized nitrogen (404.0 eV), respectively.

To synthesize SC-Fe materials, a simple salt adsorption method was employed during precursor preparation while other synthetic steps during pyrolysis remained the same as those for SC (**Figure S7, S8** and **S9**). Due to the coordination with N and O heteroatoms in the CB6 framework, Fe2+ was atomically dispersed in the precursor. Even without acid washing, iron particle was not observed, along with the absence of crystalline signals of any iron and iron carbides in XRD patterns of SC-Fe, suggesting uniform dispersion of Fe (**Figure S10** and **S11**). High angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (HADDF-STEM) and N2 isotherms reveal the uniform mesoporosity similar to SC (**Figure S12** and **S13**). Accordingly, a tiny amount of Fe (0.23 at.% according to X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) result) has no profound influence on the pyrolysis thermodynamics (**Figure S14**, **S15,** and **Table S3**). High-resolution HAADF-STEM images, as well as corresponding energy dispersive spectrometric (EDS) mapping, suggest that Fe atoms are well dispersed and decorated within the carbon skeleton (**Figure 3**a, b and **S16**). The peaks in line sweeping of HAADF intensity with a width around 130 pm and synchronized EDS Fe signal well prove the atomic dispersion of Fe (Figure 3c). These Fe species are most likely Fe atoms coordinated with nitrogen owing to the electron donation from N to Fe, which is evidenced by that (1) in the fine Fe 2p XPS spectrum of SC-Fe, the Fe 2p3/2 peak is located near Fe2+ (710.4 eV) instead of metallic iron (706.8 eV), and (2) in the fine N 1s XPS spectrum of SC-Fe, pyridinic nitrogen signal at 398.3 eV is enhanced and slightly blue shifted compared to SC while other peaks exhibit no major change (Figure 3d).

The atomically uniform dispersion of Fe active sites and moderate mesoporosity endowed SC-Fe with high reactivity for ORR electrocatalysis. The ORR reactivity of the samples was evaluated using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) conducted on a rotating ring-disk electrode in O2-saturated 0.10 M KOH electrolyte at room temperature, with an area mass loading of 0.25 mg cm−2 in all cases. Commercial 20% Pt/C served as the state-of-the-art reference electrocatalyst.

Notably, all polarized profiles were calibrated with profiles tested in N2-saturated electrolyte under otherwise identical conditions to reveal the real ORR reactivity (**Figure S17**).[18] As exhibited in **Figure 4**a, SC-Fe affords a half-wave potential of 0.869 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), which is very close to the Pt/C electrocatalyst. In contrast, the half-wave potential of SC is 100 mV lower than SC-Fe, indicating that atomically dispersed Fe is the active site for ORR. Tafel slopes afford further evidence that SC-Fe prominently promotes the ORR kinetics from 109 mV dec−1 for Pt/C and 57.7 mV dec−1 for SC to 51.3 mV dec−1 (Figure 4b). The electron transfer number of SC-Fe is 3.7 at 0.80 V vs. RHE and stable throughout the ORR potential range (Figure 4c and **Figure S18**), comparable with Pt/C and better than SC that performs a mixed ORR process to produce peroxide byproduct. In addition, long-term chronoamperometric tests suggest SC-Fe with superior ORR stability with the current density remained 90% after 30000 s at the given potential required to reach an initial ORR current density of 3.0 mA cm−2, much better than the Pt/C electrocatalyst with only 70% of the current density remained (Figure 4d). Atomically dispersed SC-Fe serves as an excellent ORR electrocatalyst with comparable reactivity and better kinetics and stability than Pt/C. Supramolecular precursors such as the CB6 exhibit advantages in the preparation of atomically dispersed electrocatalysts for their (1) chemical bonds with various thermodynamic properties to arrange the pyrolysis process, (2) uniform and tunable sites for the dispersion of metal ions, (3) abundant heteroatoms to mediate the chemical environments of metal sites and interface polarity.

**Figure 4.** The electrochemical performance of SC-Fe for ORR electrocatalysis. a) LSV curves, b) Tafel slopes, and c) calculated electron transfer number of ORR of the SC-Fe, SC, and Pt/C electrocatalysts. d) Stability evaluation of the SC-Fe and Pt/C electrocatalysts.

In conclusion, we proposed a concept from supramolecules to self-templated carbon and metal-doped carbon materials. Mechanistic insights into the pyrolysis of supramolecular CB6 suggest the key role of long-range hydrogen bonds in stabilizing the intermediate structure toward controllable template-free synthesis of hierarchical porous carbon with dominant mesoporosity. The superb intermediate stability also allowed

atomic dispersion of metal atoms in the carbon framework pyrolyzed from metal-coordinated CB6, preventing the tedious purification steps and guaranteeing the full exposure of active coordinated metal sites. The as-fabricated SC-Fe electrocatalyst exhibited comparable activity with Pt/C in ORR while improved kinetics and stability. This work provides the first example to synthesize functional carbon and metal-doped carbon from supramolecules without template or other complicated fabrication process. The synthetic concept and pyrolysis mechanism enlighten rational design and precise fabrication of carbon and atomically dispersed metal catalysts for emerging applications.

### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by National Key Research and Development Program (2016YFA0200102 and 2016YFA0202500), National Natural Science Fondation of China (21825501) and the Tsinghua University Initiative Scientific Research Program. We thank helpful discussion from Dr. Long Kong, Meng Zhao, and Prof. Jia-Qi Huang.

**Keywords:** supramolecule precursors • carbon nanomaterials • catalyst electrocatalysis • metal/carbon/nitrogen • oxygen reduction reaction

- [1] a) J. T. Zhang, C. M. Li, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2012**, *41*, 7016–7031; b) J. Zhang, D. S. Su, A. H. Zhang, D. Wang, R. Schlogl, C. Hebert, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2007**, *46*, 7319–7323; *Angew. Chem.* **2007**, *119*, 7460–7464; c) E. Frackowiak, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2007**, *9*, 1774–1785; d) H. X. Zhong, J. Wang, Y. W. Zhang, W. L. Xu, W. Xing, D. Xu, Y. F. Zhang, X. B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 14235–14239; *Angew. Chem.* **2014**, *126*, 14459–14463; e) J. Wang, H. X. Zhong, Y. L. Qin, X. B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.*  **2013**, *52*, 5248–5253; *Angew. Chem.* **2013**, *125*, 5356–5361.
- [2] a) J. Q. Sun, S. E. Lowe, L. J. Zhang, Y. Z. Wang, K. L. Pang, Y. Wang, Y. L. Zhong, P. R. Liu, K. Zhao, Z. Y. Tang, H. J. Zhao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 16511–16515; *Angew. Chem.*  **2018**, *130*, 16749–16753; b) J. Wang, K. Li, H. X. Zhong, D. Xu, Z. L. Wang, Z. Jiang, Z. J. Wu, X. B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 10530–10534; *Angew. Chem.* **2015**, *127*, 10676–10680.
- [3] a) J. Lee, J. Kim, T. Hyeon, *Adv. Mater.* **2006**, *18*, 2073–2094; b) L. Jiao, G. Wan, R. Zhang, H. Zhou, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 8525-8529; *Angew. Chem.* **2018**, *130*, 8661-8665; c) R. Walczak, B. Kurpil, A. Savateev, T. Heil, J. Schmidt, Q. Qin, M. Antonietti, M. Oschatz, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 10765-10770; *Angew. Chem.* **2018**, *130*, 10926-10931.
- [4] Y. C. Lin, J. Cho, G. A. Tompsett, P. R. Westmoreland, G. W. Huber, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2009**, *113*, 20097–20107.
- [5] a) M. Keiluweit, P. S. Nico, M. G. Johnson, M. Kleber, *Environ. Sci. Technol.* **2010**, *44*, 1247–1253; b) E. Zussman, X. Chen, W. Ding, L. Calabri, D. A. Dikin, J. P. Quintana, R. S. Ruoff, *Carbon* **2005**, *43*, 2175–2185.
- [6] a) Z. J. Zhang, X. Y. Chen, D. H. Xie, P. Cui, J. W. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 9675–9683; b) Y. H. Deng, J. Liu, C. Liu, D. Gu, Z. K. Sun, J. Wei, J. Y. Zhang, L. J. Zhang, B. Tu, D. Y. Zhao, *Chem. Mater.* **2008**, *20*, 7281–7286; c) C. H. Huang, R. A. Doong, D. Gu, D. Y. Zhao, *Carbon* **2011**, *49*, 3055–3064; d) W. Li, F. Zhang, Y. Q. Dou, Z. X. Wu, H. J. Liu, X. F. Qian, D. Gu, Y. Y. Xia, B. Tu, D. Y. Zhao, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2011**, *1*, 382–386; e) Y. P. Zhai, Y. Q. Dou, X. X. Liu, S. S. Park, C. S. Ha, D. Y. Zhao, *Carbon* **2011**, *49*, 545–555.

- [7] a) T. Chen, Z. W. Zhang, B. R. Cheng, R. P. Chen, Y. Hu, L. B. Ma, G. Y. Zhu, J. Liu, Z. Jin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 12710– 12715; b) M. J. Li, C. M. Liu, H. B. Cao, H. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Z. J. Fan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 14844–14851; c) J. Wang, J. Tang, B. Ding, V. Malgras, Z. Chang, X. D. Hao, Y. Wang, H. Dou, X. G. Zhang, Y. Yamauchi, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15717; d) X. J. Wei, S. G. Wan, S. Y. Gao, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *28*, 206–215; e) S. W. Bian, J. Baltrusaitis, P. Galhotra, V. H. Grassian, *J. Mater. Chem.* **2010**, *20*, 8705–8710; f) F. D. Han, Y. J. Bai, R. Liu, B. Yao, Y. X. Qi, N. Lun, J. X. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2011**, *1*, 798–801; g) Q. C. Zeng, D. C. Wu, C. Zou, F. Xu, R. W. Fu, Z. H. Li, Y. R. Lianga, D. S. Su, *Chem. Commun.* **2010**, *46*, 5927–5929; h) W. L. Zhang, H. B. Lin, Z. Q. Lin, J. Yin, H. Y. Lu, D. C. Liu, M. Z. Zhao, *ChemSusChem*  **2015**, *8*, 2114–2122.
- [8] a) J. W. F. To, Z. Chen, H. B. Yao, J. J. He, K. Kim, H. H. Chou, L. J. Pan, J. Wilcox, Y. Cui, Z. A. Bao, *Acs Central Science* **2015**, *1*, 68– 76; b) L. J. Pan, G. H. Yu, D. Y. Zhai, H. R. Lee, W. T. Zhao, N. Liu, H. L. Wang, B. C. K. Tee, Y. Shi, Y. Cui, Z. N. Bao, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.* **2012**, *109*, 9287–9292.
- [9] a) S. Lim, H. Kim, N. Selvapalam, K. J. Kim, S. J. Cho, G. Seo, K. Kim, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2008**, *47*, 3352–3355; *Angew. Chem.*  **2008**, *120*, 3400–3403; b) J. Lagona, P. Mukhopadhyay, S. Chakrabarti, L. Isaacs, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2005**, *44*, 4844–4870; *Angew. Chem.* **2015**, *117*, 4922–4949; c) J. W. Lee, S. Samal, N. Selvapalam, H. J. Kim, K. Kim, *Accounts. Chem. Res.* **2003**, *36*, 621–630.
- [10] J. G. Wang, H. Y. Jiang, N. Jiang, *Thermochim. Acta* **2009**, *496*, 136–142.
- [11] H. Kim, Y. Kim, M. Yoon, S. Linn, S. M. Park, G. Seo, K. Kim, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 12200–12202.
- [12] a) Y. W. Zhu, H. X. Ji, H. M. Cheng, R. S. Ruoff, *Natl. Sci. Rev.*  **2018**, *5*, 90–101; b) R. Saito, M. Hofmann, G. Dresselhaus, A. Jorio, M. S. Dresselhaus, *Adv. Phys.* **2011**, *60*, 413–550; c) C. X. Cong, K. Li, X. X. Zhang, T. Yu, *Sci. Rep.* **2013**, *3*, 1195.
- [13] A. C. Ferrari, *Solid State Commun.* **2007**, *143*, 47–57.
- [14] a) Y. Y. Liang, Y. G. Li, H. L. Wang, H. J. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*  **2013**, *135*, 2013–2036; b) H. J. Shen, E. Gracia-Espino, J. Y. Ma, K. T. Zang, J. Luo, L. Wang, S. S. Gao, X. Mamat, G. Z. Hu, T. Wagberg, S. J. Guo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 13800–13804; *Angew. Chem.* **2017**, *129*, 13988–13992; c) C. Y. Su, H. Cheng, W. Li, Z. Q. Liu, N. Li, Z. F. Hou, F. Q. Bai, H. X. Zhang, T. Y. Ma, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1602420.
- [15] a) A. P. O'Mullane, *Nanoscale* **2014**, *6*, 4012–4026; b) J. J. Xu, D. Xu, Z. L. Wang, H. G. Wang, L. L. Zhang, X. B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 3887–3890; *Angew. Chem.* **2013**, *125*, 3979–3982; c) W. H. Wang, L. Kuai, W. Cao, M. Huttula, S. Ollikkala, T. Ahopelto, A. P. Honkanen, S. Huotari, M. K. Yu, B. Y. Geng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 14977–14981; *Angew. Chem.*  **2017**, *129*, 15173–15177; d) H. X. Zhong, J. Wang, F. L. Meng, X. B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 9937–9941; *Angew. Chem.*  **2016**, *128*, 10091–10095; e) Z. P. Zhang, J. T. Sun, F. Wang, L. M. Dai, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 9038-9043; *Angew. Chem.*  **2018**, *130*, 9176-9181.
- [16] a) X. X. Huang, Y. Z. Wang, W. Li, Y. L. Hou, *Sci*. *China Chem.*  **2017**, *60*, 1494–1507; b) W. P. Zhao, G. Wan, C. L. Peng, H. P. Sheng, J. G. Wen, H. R. Chen, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 3473– 3479.
- [17] a) Y. J. Chen, S. F. Ji, Y. G. Wang, J. C. Dong, W. X. Chen, Z. Li, R. A. Shen, L. R. Zheng, Z. B. Zhuang, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6937–6941; *Angew. Chem.* **2017**, *129*, 7041–7045; b) Z. Miao, X. Wang, M.-C. Tsai, Q. Jin, J. Liang, F. Ma, T. Wang, S. Zheng, B.-J. Hwang, Y. Huang, S. Guo, Q. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801226
- [18] a) D. W. Wang, D. S. Su, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 576–591; b) C. Tang, H. F. Wang, X. Chen, B. Q. Li, T. Z. Hou, B. S. Zhang, Q. Zhang, M. M. Titirici, F. Wei, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 6845–6851.

high efficiency in oxygen reduction reaction after Fe doping.

The supramolecular interaction within supramolecular cucurbit[6]uril affords a step by step pyrolysis mechanism, which benefits for the mesoporosity construction and heteroatom doping of the produced carbon material. The as-prepared carbon exhibits *Jin Xie, Bo-Quan Li, Hong-Jie Peng, Yun-Wei Song, Jia-Xing Li, Ze-Wen Zhang, and Qiang Zhang \** 

*Page No. – Page No.* 

**From Supramolecules to Self-Templated Porous Carbon and Metal-Doped Carbon Catalysts**