---
source: Xin 等 - 2022 - Integration of Morphology and Electronic Structure Modulation on Atomic Iron‐Nitrogen‐Carbon Catalys.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 8.641s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:40:47.447042Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

# **Integration of Morphology and Electronic Structure Modulation on Atomic Iron-Nitrogen-Carbon Catalysts for Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction**

*Cuncun Xin, Wenzhe Shang, Jinwen Hu, Chao Zhu, Jingya Guo, Jiangwei Zhang, Haopeng Dong, Wei Liu,\* and Yantao Shi\**

**Atomic transition-metal-nitrogen-carbon catalysts (M-N-Cs) hold great promise as Pt-group-metal-free candidates for electrochemical reactions, yet their rational design and controllable synthesis remain fundamental challenges. Here, the molten-salts mediated pyrolysis is demonstrated to be an effective and facile strategy for simultaneous morphology and electronic structure modulation of prototypical Fe-N-C materials, which functions as efficient oxygen reduction electrocatalysts. Taking advantage of the strong polarity and salt templating effects, the as-obtained Fe-N/C-single atom catalyst (SAC) possesses hierarchical porous nanosheet morphology with an impressive specific surface area of 2237 m2 g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and unique FeN4Cl moieties as isolated active centers. The Fe-N/C-SAC delivers remarkable alkaline oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity with a half-wave potential of 0.91 V and record kinetic current density up to 55 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , outperforming the benchmark Pt/C. By virtue of dechlorination treatment, it is experimentally identified that the enhanced ORR activities are essentially governed by the axially bound Cl. Theoretical calculations rationalize this finding and demonstrate that the well-defined fivefold-coordinated configuration accelerates 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway kinetics through near-optimal adsorption of the \*OH intermediates and tunes the potential determining step from \*OH reduction to \*OOH formation. This study provides fundamental insights into the coordinationengineered strategy in single-atom catalysis.**

**1. Introduction**

Fuel cells are attractive next-generation mobile power supply owing to their appealing features, such as high power density and environmental friendliness, yet progress in large-scale commercialization development has been long plagued by the moderate durability and high cost of platinum-based catalysts used to drive the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[1] In this regard, tremendous efforts have been made to exploit active and durable non-noble ORR catalysts during the past few decades.[2–4] Notably, single atom catalysts (SACs), in particular the typical class of atomic transitionmetal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) catalysts featured with high electrical conductivity and superior electrochemical activity, stability, have drawn great research interest, and thereby experienced a rapid development.[5–8] For example, Cao et al. reported a concave-shaped Fe-N-C SAC with wellexposed Fe-N4 moieties boosts ORR catalysis for H2-O2 fuel cells, which meets the United States Department of Energy 2018 activity target.[9] Wu et al. also demonstrated unprecedented acidic ORR performance and peak power density, durability in H2-O2 fuel cells over CoN2+2 sites.[10]

Despite the great potential of M-N-C in electrocatalysis, rational design and

synthesis remain fundamental challenge, due to the lack of reasonable guidance and effective methods regarding the precise atomic-level manipulation.[11a] For the most frequently

C. Xin, W. Shang, J. Hu, J. Guo, W. Liu, Y. Shi State Key Laboratory of Fine Chemicals School of Chemical Engineering Dalian University of Technology Dalian 116024, China E-mail: liuweikd@dlut.edu.cn; shiyantao@dlut.edu.cn C. Zhu Key Laboratory of MEMS of Ministry of Education Collaborative Innovation Center for Micro/Nano Fabrication Southeast University Nanjing 210096, China

J. Zhang State Key Lab Catalysis Dalian Institute Chemical Physics Chinese Academy Sciences Dalian 116023, China H. Dong Institute of Materials China Academy of Engineering Physics Mianyang 621000, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202108345.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202108345**

**Figure 1.** Schematic illustration of the MS mediated pyrolysis strategy of Fe-N/C-SAC. The adopted MS system (KCl/ZnCl2 = 0.7) is a typical eutectic composition in binary salt phase diagram, therefore the MS can be homogeneously miscible with nitrilotriacetic acid and iron acetylacetonate (Fe(acac)3) precursor over a broad temperature range.

investigated pyridinic/pyrrolic N coordinated MN4 moieties, the underperformance is mainly ascribed to an uneven distribution between the binding of ORR-relevant oxygenate intermediates, according to the conventional adsorbate evolution mechanism, which induces a critical potential determining step (PDS) of either \*OOH formation or \*OH reduction.[11] In this regard, various promising derivatives of MN4 SACs have been further proposed based on fine-tuning of the flexible, heterogeneous M-N-C interfacial structure.[12] Molecular design of atomically dispersed metal sites, for example, FeN3P, CoN3PS, and Cu-S1N3 configurations are predicted to exhibit intermediate adsorbate binding with introduced heteroatoms, which are also corroborated by experimental studies with demonstrated substantially enhanced ORR performance.[13] Besides, structural modifications in the carbon matrix provides another important means of microenvironment engineering.[14] However, either the resultant symmetry breaking of the inherent square planar D4h geometry or inhomogeneous doped heteroatoms poses grand challenges for controllable preparation by virtue of routine pyrolysis procedures and mechanistic studies. Moreover, in order to promote the mass transfer and expose high density of active sites during the electrocatalytic process, various hard templates (SiO2, Al2O3, SBA-15, and phenol-formaldehyde resin, etc) or well-elaborate precursors with specific morphologies are often involved in routine synthesis, which turns to be less efficient or otherwise time or energy-consuming.[15] Therefore, it is highly desirable to seek new easy-implemented strategies to achieve rational design of optimal catalysts.

Inspired by mesotetraphenylporphyrin (H2TPP)-related molecular complexes FeTPPCl and CoTPPCl, as well as the pioneering work of Liu et al. and Jaephil Cho et al., we envisioned that coordinatively unsaturated single-site M-N-C configuration could be possibly further modified by halogen coordination in the axial direction.[16] In this work, we demonstrate the molten-salts (MS) mediated synthesis of prototypical Fe-N/C-SAC by rationally constructing FeN4Cl active sites anchored in a hierarchical porous carbon matrix boosts the kinetically sluggish oxygen reduction electrocatalysis based on a combination of electrochemical analysis with density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The well-defined single Fe site catalyst delivers remarkable alkaline ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.91 V and record kinetic current density up to 55 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , outperforming the benchmark Pt/C and ranks among the state-of-the-art platinum-group-metals (PGM)-free electrocatalysts reported to date. The elaborate dechlorination treatment, in conjunction with DFT calculations, unambiguously identify that the enhanced ORR activities are essentially governed by the axially bound Cl. We established that the unique fivefold coordination configuration accelerates 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway kinetics through nearoptimal stabilization of intermediates within Sabatier activityvolcano plot and tunes the potential determining step from \*OH reduction to \*OOH formation.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

As an important complement to conventional liquid phase synthesis, the molten salts offers an adjustable and broad temperature range from ≈100 to over 1000 °C, enabling the access to a number of inorganics as carbon precursor.[17] The salt presumably acts as a "molecular template," either forming ion pairs or small clusters over the main carbonization process. Moreover, the strong polarizing force destabilizes ionic or covalent bonds, therefore the aggregation of metal atoms during synthesis can be effectively suppressed.[18] Taking these into account, we accordingly explored a MS mediated pyrolysis procedure to prepare atomic Fe-N-C materials (termed as Fe-N/C-SAC), as schematized in **Figure 1**. For comparison, the N/C control sample was also prepared following the same MS-assisted pyrolysis strategy with Fe-N/C-SAC, except for non-added Fe precursor.

Systematical characterizations were performed to well analyze the structures of samples at different levels. First, as shown in the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images in Figure S1, Supporting Information, Fe-N/C is composed of a large number of amorphous bulk carbon with the length ranging from ≈20 to above 100 µm. In contrast, there is significant morphology evolution for Fe-N/C-SAC synthesized in molten salts, which seemingly consists of ultrathin nanosheets (**Figure 2**a and Figure S2, Supporting Information). The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller measurement indicates that Fe-

16163028, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202108345 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** Morphological, structural characterization of Fe-N/C-SAC electrocatalyst. a) Representative SEM, b) N2 absorption-desorption isotherms, c) Raman spectrum, and d) XRD of as-synthesized Fe-N/C-SAC. The data of Fe-N/C control sample are also shown for comparison.

N/C-SAC possesses an impressive specific surface area up to 2237 m2 g−<sup>1</sup> and a large pore volume of 2.2 cm3 g−<sup>1</sup> , which are significantly higher than those (400 m2 g−<sup>1</sup> , 0.41 cm3 g−<sup>1</sup> ) of Fe-N/C (Figure 2b and Figure S3, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the nitrogen adsorption–desorption curve of Fe-N/C-SAC in Figure 2b exhibits the fourth type with H4 type hysteresis, also demonstrating its nanosheet morphology, which is consistent with the SEM results. In the Raman spectrum (Figure 2c), both samples exhibit similar peaks at 1350 and 1590 cm−<sup>1</sup> , which are designated as disordered carbon (D band) and graphitized carbon (G band).[10] The ratios of the relative intensities of peak D and peak G (*I*D/*I*G) in the two samples are 1.1 and 1.02 respectively, suggesting the increased disorder or defects after pyrolysis in molten salts. These above clearly demonstrate the molten salts accounts for pore-former and soft template in the present synthesis and the derived the specific surface area and morphology of as-prepared Fe-N/C-SAC are conducive to exposing more active sites and efficient mass transport during the electrocatalytic process.

The surface composition of Fe-N/C-SAC was investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and the N element content was determined to be 7.2% (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Specifically, the N1s spectrum (Figure S4b, Supporting Information) can be deconvoluted into four peaks at 398.2, 399.1, 401.0, and 404.9 eV, which can be assigned to pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, graphitic N, and oxidized N, respectively.[19] In contrast, the nitrogen content in the Fe-N/C, which was obtained without using molten salts, is nearly half as much as Fe-N/C-SAC, and the content of pyridinic nitrogen in Fe-N/C is also significantly reduced (Figure S4d, Supporting Information). To be noted, the pyridinic N atoms are highly desired as trapping sites for carbon-supported SACs.[20] In addition, an obvious peak near the binding energy of 200 eV was also observed in the XPS survey spectrum of the Fe-N/C-SAC (Figure S4a, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S5, Supporting Information, the Cl 2p spectrum of the Fe-N/C-SAC can be deconvoluted into two major peaks at binding energies of 200.1 and 199.1 eV, which can be assigned to C-Cl and Cl−, respectively. This implies potential coordination between that Cl and the other atoms due to the ionic environment and strong polarity from molten salts.[21] The large specific surface area as well as abundant surface pyridinic N benefiting from the use of molten salts can significantly increase the probability for Fe single atoms being anchored onto carbon support.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns in Figure 2d clearly show the diffraction peaks of iron carbides (Fe3C, JPCDS No.35- 0772) in Fe-N/C.[22] By comparison, no characteristic peaks associated with iron or iron compounds are observed for Fe-N/C-SAC, preliminarily validating the beneficial effect of molten salts on suppressing metal aggregation. The atomic structures

**Figure 3.** Atomic structure characterizations of Fe-N/C-SAC. a) Representative AC HAADF-STEM and b,c) elemental mapping image of Fe-N/C-SAC. Isolated Fe atoms are marked in yellow circles. d) Fe K-edge XANES spectra and e) *k*<sup>2</sup> -weighted FT spectra in R space for Fe-N/C-SAC. The data of Fe foil, FeO, Fe2O3, and FePc (iron phthalocyanine) are shown for references. The typical shoulder peak at 7117 eV, which corresponds to the characteristic electric-dipole allowed 1s→4p*z* transition in FePc are marked. f,g) Curve-fitting analysis of EXAFS spectra of Fe-N/C-SAC and the proposed structural model. Fe, N, Cl, and C atoms are shown in pink, blue, green, and gray, respectively. Individual Fe-N, Fe-Cl, and Fe-C backscattering signal included in the fit are also shown. h) Wavelet transforms for the Fe K-edge *k*2-weighted EXAFS oscillations *k*2*χ*(*k*) of Fe-N/C-SAC, FePc, and Fe foil.

of Fe-N/C-SAC were further directly imaged by the aberration corrected high-angle annular darkfield scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM). It is clear that there are no bright spots of metal particles in AC HAADF-STEM image (**Figure 3**a), and those isolated bright spots marked by yellow circles unambiguously represent the atomically dispersed Fe atoms. Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy elemental mapping analysis demonstrates the copresence of C, N, Cl, and Fe species, as well as their uniform distribution in the matrix (Figure 3b,c). The Fe content in Fe-N/C-SAC was determined to be 0.35 wt% by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES) analysis.

In order to further probe the chemical state and local structure of the Fe atoms in the as-synthesized sample, X-ray absorption fine structure measurements at Fe K-edge were performed. As shown in the X-ray near-edge structure (XANES) spectra, the absorption edge position of Fe-N/C-SAC approaches that of Fe2O3, indicating the approximate +3 oxidation state of Fe species (Figure 3d). Here, the existence of Fe3<sup>+</sup> in Fe-N/C-SAC was also identified by electron paramagnetic resonance analysis and soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy measurements (Figure S6, Supporting Information). Remarkably, the typical shoulder peak featured at 7117 eV, which corresponds to the characteristic electric-dipole allowed 1s→4p*z* transition in FePc, is almost absent for Fe-N/C-SAC, suggesting a significant local symmetry change from square-planar to quasi-octahedral structure by additional binding of axial ligands.[23] The Fourier transformed (FT) *k*2-weighted extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra are displayed in Figure 3e. Compared to the FT spectrum of the reference FePc, which shows a

16163028, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202108345 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** Electrochemical ORR performance. In alkaline medium (0.1 m KOH): a) CV curves of Fe-N/C-SAC, b) LSV curves of N/C, Pt/C, and Fe-N/C-SAC. c) Comparison of *J*k at 0.85 V and *E*1/2 of N/C, Pt/C, and Fe-N/C-SAC. d) Contrasting the *E*onset and *E*1/2 for Fe-N/C-SAC and the catalysts in Table S2, Supporting Information. e) LSV curves of N/C, Pt/C, and Fe-N/C-SAC in acid medium (0.1 m HClO4). f) LSV curves of Fe-N/C-SAC at different rotating rates in 0.1 m KOH. Tafel slopes of N/C, Pt/C, and Fe-N/C-SAC in g) 0.1 m KOH and h) 0.1 m HClO4.

Gaussian symmetric Fe-N main peak at ≈1.47 Å (without phase shift correction), the asymmetric peak with certain higher-*R* migration to 1.49 Å of Fe-N/C-SAC also evidences the additional axial ligand and its derived structure distortion of Fe atoms out of graphene plane as indicated by the XANES analysis. Taking the Cl 2p XPS results into account, the nearest neighboring shell of Fe centers mainly comprises dual N, Cl coordination. It makes sense that the coordinatively unsaturated single-site M-N-C configuration could be possibly further modified by halogen coordination in the axial direction, as a result of robust solvent interactions during MS mediated thermal treatments. In addition, no obvious Fe–Fe interactions (≈2.19 Å) were detected and the relatively weak peak at 2.35 Å can be attributed to the second Fe-C shell contribution. Combining the above microscopy analyses, we demonstrated the primary existence of atomically dispersed Fe in Fe-N/C-SAC. We used quantitative EXAFS curve fitting to infer Fe-N and Fe-Cl coordination numbers of 3.6 and 1.2, respectively (Figure S7 and Table S1, Supporting Information). The best fitting analysis clearly confirm that Fe center is isolated located in the divacancy cavity bonded with four in-plane N atoms and one axial Cl atom, forming a "Fe1-N4Cl1" motif embedded in the graphene framework (Figure 3f,g). Moreover, the EXAFS wavelet-transform analysis of Fe-N/C-SAC and FePc give rise to well-resolved intensity maximum at *k* = 4.1 and 3.9 Å−<sup>1</sup> , respectively, which further support the dual N, Cl coordination structure in Fe-N/C-SAC (Figure 3h).

The electrocatalytic activity for ORR was evaluated using rotating disk electrode (RDE) and rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) in O2-saturated solution at room temperature. First, cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of Fe-N/C-SAC were recorded in O2-saturared and N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH (**Figure 4**a). The CV curve measured in O2-saturated solution exhibits a conspicuous reduction peak at 0.88 V, in a sharp contrast to the case of N2-saturated solution, clearly suggesting the ORR catalytic activity of Fe-N/C-SAC. Control experiments show that

the Fe-N/C-SAC delivers the best alkaline ORR activity with a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.91 V and limiting current density *J* (at 0.2 V) of 6.03 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements, both of which are much higher than those (0.82 V, 4.95 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ) of N/C (Figure 4b). This manifests that the enhanced catalytic activity is structurally related to the FeN4Cl active sites. It is also worth noting that Fe-N/C-SAC exhibits kinetic current density (*J*k) up to 55 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.85 V in 0.1 m KOH, 20.8 and 11.5 times higher than that of N/C and Pt/C (Figure 4c), respectively, which is almost the highest among the reported SACs for ORR. Moreover, the *E*1/2 of Fe-N/C-SAC is almost 60 mV more positive than that (0.85 V) of the benchmark Pt/C, which ranks among the state-of-the-art PGM-free electrocatalysts reported to date (Figure 4d and Table S2, Supporting Information). Here, we would like to highlight again the important roles of MS based on the demonstrated much inferior activity of Fe-N/C compared to Fe-N/C-SAC (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Figure 4e shows the comparable *E*1/2 and *J* of Fe-N/C-SAC with the benchmark Pt/C (20 µgPt cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ) in 0.1 m HClO4, suggesting a good ORR activity of Fe-N/C-SAC in acidic medium. These above provide solid evidence that the atomically dispersed FeN4Cl moiety behaves as highly efficient active site in both acidic and alkaline ORR electrocatalysis (Please see details in Tables S2 and S3, Supporting Information). To further confirm, additional halide ion poisoning experiments were also carried out.[24] As we know, F<sup>−</sup> ion has a high affinity to iron and can poison Fe3<sup>+</sup> active sites to form very stable [FeF6] <sup>3</sup><sup>−</sup> complex. As expected, the *E*1/2 of Fe-N/C-SAC negatively shifts and limit current density *J* obviously declines after adding 3 mm NaF into 0.1 m KOH and HClO4 (Figure S9, Supporting Information).

Subsequently, RDE tests under different rotating rates were carried out to investigate the electron transfer kinetics of Fe-N/C-SAC in alkaline medium, as shown in Figure 4f. The results were fitted by Koutecky–Levich (K–L) equation and plotted in Figure S10, Supporting Information. The linearity of K–L plots for Fe-N/C-SAC proves a first-order reaction kinetics toward oxygen concentration.[25] The electron transfer number (*n*), which is usually used to judge the ORR pathway, was calculated on the basis of K–L equation. The calculated result (*n* = 3.9) of Fe-N/C-SAC almost approaches the theoretical value (*n* = 4), suggesting that the ORR catalyzed by Fe-N/C-SAC in 0.1 m KOH is mainly dominated by 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway.[26] In addition, RRDE measurement was further to identify the 4e− reaction mechanism with low H2O2 yield (<6%) at all applied potentials (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The catalytic kinetics for different samples were further estimated from the Tafel slopes. The Fe-N/C-SAC exhibits the lowest Tafel slope of 52 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> compared to those of N/C (95 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) and Pt/C (70 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ), indicating its fastest dynamic process for ORR (Figure 4g). Meanwhile, the Tafel slope of Fe-N/C-SAC in 0.1 m HClO4 is also the best among all the tested samples (Figure 4h).

Long-term operation durability is one critical consideration for the application of electrocatalysts.[27] Stability test was conducted by continuous cyclic CV measurements in O2-saturated alkaline or acid solution at a scan rate of 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> between 0.2 and 1.0 V (versus RHE). After 5000 cycles CV measurements in 0.1 m KOH, the Fe-N/C-SAC exhibits excellent stability with a negligible variation of *E*1/2 (only a 7 mV negative shift, Figure S12a, Supporting Information). It should be mentioned that the stability of Fe-N/C-SAC is also commendable when measured in acid medium (0.1 m HClO4) with the *E*1/2 negative shift of only 25 mV (Figure S12b, Supporting Information). In addition, we measured the LSV curves of Fe-N/C-SAC in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH with a certain amount of methanol. As can be seen from Figure S13, Supporting Information, no noticeable difference was observed between the LSV curves with and without adding methanol into electrolyte, suggesting superior methanol tolerance of Fe-N/C-SAC.

To demonstrate the indispensable role of Cl incorporation in boosting the ORR catalytic activity, additional experiments were carried out to deliberate remove the axially bound Cl for comparison (hereinafter referred to as "de-Cl treatment"). We adapted a previously reported solvent reflux method to directly cleave Fe-Cl bonds within Fe-N/C-SAC in the presence of triethylamine and the resultant sample was denoted as Fe-N/C-R.[28] As expected, the Fe-N/C-R exhibits relatively drastic changes in Cl content when compared with pristine Fe-N/C-SAC as investigated by a combination of XPS and ICP-OES analysis (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The Cl content decreases from 1.10 to 0.83 wt% after the de-Cl treatment and the welldefined Cl 2p peak envelope also contrasts with the broad signal for the Fe-N/C-SAC. Specifically, high-resolution Cl 2p XPS spectrum for Fe-N/C-R reveals a single peak centered at 200.5 eV, which can be assigned to C-Cl 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 peaks at 200.2 and 201.8 eV, respectively (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Inspired by the absence of characteristic Fe-Cl peak at 199.1 eV, the detailed local structure of Fe in Fe-N/C-R was further investigated by EXAFS analysis (Figures S17 and S18, Supporting Information). Upon de-Cl treatment, the pristine asymmetric FT peak at ≈1.49 Å derived from N, Cl dual coordination substantially enhanced, featuring with a Gaussian-like main peak shifted to a shorter bond distance of 1.41 Å. At this point, EXAFS results corroborate a definite nonchlorine ligation for the isolated Fe centers in Fe-N/C-R in combination with the Cl 2p XPS analysis. Meanwhile, the absence of Fe–Fe interactions clearly identifies the preserved atomically dispersion of Fe atoms on carbon support. Then, we used quantitative leastsquares EXAFS curve-fitting to infer Fe-O/N coordination numbers of 6.3. This sixfold saturated coordination structure of iron centers under ex situ conditions makes sense since iron moieties tend to bind O2 (OH) and this similar preadsorbed O2-Fe-N4 moiety has been earlier reported in iron and nitrogen doped graphene materials.[9,23a] **Figure 5**a shows a typical LSV curves of the as-obtained catalysts in alkaline media. Notably, the Fe-N/C-R exhibits much inferior ORR activity with an obvious drop of 80 mV in *E*1/2 and increase in Tafel slope to 74 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , compared to those of Fe-N-C/SAC (Figure 5a,b). Control experiments show that the electrocatalytic activity of non-metal N/C-R (the de-Cl treatment resultant sample of N/C) displays rather obscure degradation upon de-Cl treatment, contrasts well with the aforementioned significant difference between Fe-N/C-SAC and Fe-N/C-R (Figure 5c). Further, we resort to XPS survey for a detailed surface composition analysis. Specifically, the Cl in the carbon matrix seldom desorbs upon the dechlorination treatments for both Fe-N/C-SAC and N/C samples (Figure S15, Supporting Information), which strongly verifies the stability of the chlorine-doped carbon nanostructures upon de-Cl

**Figure 5.** Identification of the indispensable role of Cl incorporation in boosting ORR activity. Demonstrated a) inferior alkaline ORR activity (in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH) with an obvious drop of 80 mV in *E*1/2 and b) increased Tafel slope to 74 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> upon dechlorination treatment, where the Fe-N/C-R denotes the resultant sample derived from dechlorination treatment. The data of N/C and Pt/C are also shown for references. c) LSV curves and Tafel slopes (inset) of N/C, N/C-R, Fe-ISAs/CN, and Fe-ISAs/CN-R. d) Comparison of *E*1/2 and Tafel slopes of Fe-N/C-SAC, Fe-ISAs/CN, and N/C samples before (*E*1/2, Tafel) and after (*E*1/2-R, Tafel-R) de-Cl treatment.

treatment and the selective Fe-Cl cleavage mainly contributes to the Cl loss in the Fe-N/C-R sample.

To investigate the possible poisoning effect of triethylamine on the FeN4 active sites, a combination of additional experimental and theoretical studies was carried out in this respect. We adopted a typical MOF synthesis route to afford singleatom Fe catalyst (Fe-ISAs/CN) with well-defined FeN4 moiety (Figure S19 and Table S1, Supporting Information,).[29] Then, we adapted the same de-Cl treatment to the as-prepared Fe-ISAs/CN and the resultant sample was denoted as Fe-ISAs/ CN-R. Close inspection of the LSV curves of Fe-ISAs/CN indicates an almost overlap in the kinetic control zone and negligible changes in the mixed controllable zone before and after the de-Cl treatment (Figure 5c). In particular, their shared Tafel slope of 53 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , which is intrinsic to the material, strongly suggests the same FeN4 active sites of these two samples. Meanwhile, DFT calculations were also employed to theoretically interpret the possible interaction between the triethylamine and Fe-N/C-SAC. Clearly, the interatomic distance between the triethylamine molecule and the Fe center significantly exceeds 3.50 Å, which corresponds to quite weak interactions between them (Figure S20, Supporting Information). In contrast, the O2 are more energetically favored to adsorb on the top site of Fe center, and this preadsorbed O2-Fe-N4 moiety is well consistent with the above EXAFS analysis. At this point, it is safe to preclude any possible poisoning effect of triethylamine on the FeN4 active sites. It is also reasonable for us to conject that the limiting current density difference between N/C and N/C-R, Fe-ISAs/CN and Fe-ISAs/CN-R, Fe-N/C-SAC and Fe-N/C-R, most probably results from various active surface area of the catalyst, taking the constant Tafel slope and *E*1/2 into account (Figure 5d). The minor residual triethylamine can be possibly trapped in the porous structure and the derived surface modifications in the catalyst may slightly affect oxygen diffusion to the catalyst surface. Conclusively, all these essential differences provide solid evidence that the superior ORR activity is structurally originated from dual N, Cl coordinative FeN4Cl moieties.

DFT calculations were further performed to theoretically interpret the robust catalytic activity of Fe-N/C-SAC. To investigate the axial direction modulation of M-N-C, two typical structure models of FeN4/C and FeN4Cl/C were constructed (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The charge density difference diagrams were first calculated, which revealed an obvious electron density redistribution around active Fe center after the introduction of Cl atom (**Figure 6**a). The Cl atom is known to be highly electronegative, which endows a strong electron-withdrawing effect on the Fe sites. Specifically, the Bader charge of Fe in FeN4Cl/C (1.15 e) is larger than that (1.10 e) in FeN4/C, demonstrating an obvious charge transfer. Based on the projected density of states of Fe1 3d-orbitals, the d-band center *ϵ*d of FeN4Cl/C exhibits significant downshift to −1.03 eV compared to that (−0.37 eV) of pristine FeN4/C and the occupied states are also much far away from the Fermi energy level (Figure S25,

16163028, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202108345 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 6.** Theoretical investigations. a) Charge density difference diagrams of FeN4Cl/C and FeN4/C (yellow: electron accumulation, cyan: electron depletion). b) Calculated Sabatier activity-volcano plot of ORR via 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway for FeN4 and FeN4Cl moieties. The theoretical onset potential *U*onset is plotted as a function of Δ*G*HO\*. The volcano plot is constructed from the representative M-N4 moieties (M = Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu) and linear-gradient background color are meant to reflect different intermediate (\*OH) binding energy. c) Proposed different ORR pathways (Path 1 and Path 2) and the corresponding DFT calculated free energy diagrams for d) FeN4Cl/C and e) FeN4/C. Fe, N, Cl, C, O, and H atoms are shown in purple, blue, green, grey, red, and light white, respectively. Single and double asterisks denote reaction intermediates adsorbed on the Fe center and nearest C center, respectively.

Supporting Information). As the d-band theory points out, a lower *ϵ*d corresponds to a decrease in energy and subsequent increase in the filling of the antibonding states derived from the coupling between 3d-orbitals of Fe atom and 2p-orbitals of bonded O atom of intermediates, which translates to a much weaker, destabilized Fe-O bonding (Figure S25, Supporting Information). As expected, \*OH chemisorption on FeN4Cl/C configuration with a moderate adsorption free energy of 1.01 eV, which represents a near-optimal binding energy for 4e− ORR when incorporated into the volcano-plot constructed from the representative M-N-C structures (Figure 6b).[11a] In this regard, the strengthened binding of oxygenated intermediates to the Fe

sites, which mainly restricts the intrinsic ORR activity of Fe-N4 sites, can be fully resolved.

According to the conventional adsorbate evolution mechanism, the multiple concerted proton–electron transfer (PCET) processes proceed according to elementary steps of Path 1 in Figure 6c, including sequential oxygenate intermediates of \*OOH, \*O, and \*OH. As expected, the FeN4/C in the left branch of the volcano plot exhibits the energetically favored adsorption of oxygen (O2 + \* → \*O2, see also the binding energies of −0.88 eV on FeN4/C), which effectively facilitates the initial electron step of O2 protonation (\*O2 + H<sup>+</sup> + e<sup>−</sup> → \*HOO). However, the strengthened binding of adsorbates

severely impedes the final electron transfer step, namely the \*OH reduction serves as the PDS (0.62 eV), therefore suffers from relatively high onset overpotential for oxygen reduction (Figure 6d). By contrast, DFT calculations manifested the weakened oxygen chemisorption on FeN4Cl/C configuration with a moderate adsorption energy of −0.36 eV. For FeN4Cl/C, the reaction barrier for \*OH reduction is calculated as low as 0.22 eV and therefore PDS is switched to \*OOH formation with an activation barrier of 0.41 eV (Figure 6d). Besides, an alternative reaction pathway (Path 2, Figure 6c) featured with a distinct cooperative \*OOH dissociation step is also theoretically predicted, in well consistent with the other DFT studies.[30] The corresponding calculated free energy diagrams for ORR on the FeN4Cl/C and FeN4/C systems are shown in Figure 6e. Specifically, the \*OOH dissociation steps are both predicted to be thermodynamically favored to proceed with a unique coadsorption configuration of \*O (Fe) +\*\*OH (C) for FeN4Cl/C and FeN4/C, while the PDS and the corresponding energy barrier remain unchanged compared with path 1. As a matter of fact, the ORR mechanism is rather complicated and continues to be discussed. Nevertheless, all these results clearly reveal that heteroatom Cl modulation provides an efficient means of tweaking the surface electronic structure such that the ORR overpotential can be minimized. Meanwhile, \*OOH dissociation in either of the two aforementioned reaction pathways is thermodynamically favored, in well consistent with the dominant 4e<sup>−</sup> pathway judged by the electrochemical ORR measurements.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, MS featured with ultra-strong polarity and selftemplate effect was developed as a marvelous medium for simultaneous morphology and electronic structure modulation of prototypical Fe-N-C materials. The targeted Fe-N/C-SAC possesses hierarchical porous nanosheet morphology with an impressive specific surface area of 2237 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and unique FeN4Cl configuration as isolated active centers, which is thoroughly confirmed by systematic AC-HAADF-STEM, XPS, and XAFS analysis. The Fe-N/C-SAC delivers remarkable alkaline ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.91 V and record kinetic current density up to 55 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, outperforming benchmark Pt/C and ranks among the state-of-the-art PGM-free electrocatalysts reported to date. By virtue of elaborate dechlorination treatment, we experimentally identify the enhanced ORR activities are essentially governed by the axially bound Cl. Theoretical calculations rationalize this finding and demonstrate that heteroatom Cl incorporation provides an efficient means of tweaking the surface electronic structure and thereby accelerates 4e− pathway kinetics through a near-optimal adsorption of intermediates. This work provides fundamental insights into the coordination-engineered strategy for the advance of single-atom catalysis.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

C.X. and W.S. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 51773025, 22002013, 21701168, and 21701151), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (DUT20RC(3)021), and the Natural Foundation of Liaoning Province (Materials Joint Foundation, Grant No. 20180510027), Dalian Science and Technology Innovation Fund (Grant No. 019J12GX032). The authors would like to thank NSRL, BSRF, and SSRF for the synchrotron radiation beam time.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

halogen coordination, molten-salts strategy, oxygen reduction reaction, single-atom catalysts, X-ray absorption spectroscopy

> Received: August 20, 2021 Revised: September 7, 2021 Published online: September 19, 2021

16163028, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202108345 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] a) A. Kulkarni, S. Siahrostami, A. Patel, J. K. Nørskov, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2302; b) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, 146.
- [2] a) D. H. Guo, R. Shibuya, C. Akiba, S. Saji, T. Kondo, J. Nakamura, *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361; b) Q. Lv, W. Y. Si, J. J. He, L. Sun, C. F. Zhang, N. Wang, Z. Yang, X. D. Li, X. Wang, W. Q. Deng, Y. Z. Long, C. S. Huang, Y. L. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 3376.
- [3] a) X. F. Lu, Y. Chen, S. B. Wang, S. Y. Gao, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1902339; b) Q. Zhao, Z. H. Yan, C. C. Chen, J. Chen, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *117*, 10121.
- [4] S. Liu, Z. D. Li, C. L. Wang, W. W. Tao, M. X. Huang, M. Zuo, Y. Yang, K. Yang, L. J. Zhang, S. Chen, P. P. Xu, Q. W. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 938.
- [5] a) A. Wang, J. Li, T. Zhang, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2018**, *2*, 65; b) D. Zhao, Z. W. Zhuang, X. Cao, C. Zhang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. D. Li, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2215.
- [6] a) Z. Miao, X. Wang, M. C. Tsai, Q. Jin, J. Liang, F. Ma, T. Wang, S. Zheng, B. J. Hwang, Y. Huang, S. Guo, Q. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801226; b) D. Malko, A. Kucernak, T. Lopes, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 13285; c) H. Zhou, T. Yang, Z. Kou, L. Shen, Y. Zhao, Z. Wang, X. Wang, Z. Yang, J. Du, J. Xu, M. Chen, L. Tian, W. Guo, Q. Wang, H. Lv, W. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, D. He, Y. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20465.
- [7] a) A. Han, W. Chen, S. Zhang, M. Zhang, Y. Han, J. Zhang, S. Ji, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, L. Gu, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706508; b) Q. Yang, Y. Jia, F. Wei, L. Zhuang, D. Yang, J. Liu, X. Wang, S. Liu, P. Yuan, X. Yao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 6122; c) X. Sun, S. Sun, S. Gu, Z. Liang, J. Zhang, Y. Yang, Z. Deng, P. Wei, J. Peng, Y. Xu, C. Fang, Q. Li, J. Han, Z. Jiang, Y. Huang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *61*, 245.

16163028, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202108345 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [8] a) J. Li, M. Chen, D. A. Cullen, S. Hwang, M. Wang, B. Li, K. Liu, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, H. Zhang, C. Lei, H. Xu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 935; b) S. Liu, Z. Li, C. Wang, W. Tao, M. Huang, M. Zuo, Y. Yang, K. Yang, L. Zhang, S. Chen, P. Xu, Q. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 938; c) J. Liu, M. Jiao, B. Mei, Y. Tong, Y. Li, M. Ruan, P. Song, G. Sun, L. Jiang, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, L. Gu, Z. Zhou, W. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 1163; d) M. Xiao, J. Zhu, G. Li, N. Li, S. Li, Z. P. Cano, L. Ma, P. Cui, P. Xu, G. Jiang, H. Jin, S. Wang, T. Wu, J. Lu, A. Yu, D. Su, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 9640.
- [9] X. Wan, X. Liu, Y. Li, R. Yu, L. Zheng, W. Yan, H. Wang, M. Xu, J. Shui, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 259.
- [10] Y. He, S. Hwang, D. A. Cullen, M. A. Uddin, L. Langhorst, B. Li, S. Karakalos, A. J. Kropf, E. C. Wegener, J. Sokolowski, M. Chen, D. Myers, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 250.
- [11] a) H. X. Xu, D. J. Cheng, D. P. Cao, X. C. Zeng, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 339; b) J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886; c) J. Y. Liu, H. Liu, H. J. Chen, X. W. Du, B. Zhang, Z. L. Hong, S. H. Sun, W. C. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1901614; d) Q. T. Liu, Y. C. Li, L. R. Zheng, J. X. Shang, X. F. Liu, R. H. Yu, J. L. Shui, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *7*, 2000689.
- [12] a) C. Z. Wan, X. F. Duan, Y. Huang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903815; b) X. N. Li, L. H. Liu, X. Y. Ren, J. J. Gao, Y. Q. Huang, B. Liu, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabb6833.
- [13] a) K. Yuan, D. F. L. Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, Y. Chen, M. K. H. Leung, U. Scherf, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 2404; b) Y. J. Chen, R. Cao, S. F. Ji, H. J. Li, K. Tang, P. Jiang, H. B. Hu, Z. D. Zhang, H. G. Hao, Q. Y. Qu, X. Liang, W. X. Chen, J. C. Dong, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3212; c) H. S. Shang, X. Y. Zhou, J. C. Dong, A. Li, X. Zhao, Q. H. Liu, Y. Lin, J. J. Pei, Z. Li, Z. L. Jiang, D. N. Zhou, L. R. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, Z. K. Yang, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, T. T. Sun, X. Yang, X. S. Zheng, W. S. Yan, Z. B. Zhuang, J. Li, W. X. Chen, D. S. Wang, J. T. Zhang, Y. D. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 3049.
- [14] a) J. J. Gao, H. B. Yang, X. Huang, S. F. Hung, W. Z. Cai, C. M. Jia, S. Miao, H. M. Chen, X. F. Yang, Y. Q. Huang, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 658; b) E. Jung, H. Shin, B. H. Lee, V. Efremov, S. Lee, H. S. Lee, J. Kim, W. H. Antink, S. Park, K. S. Lee, S. P. Cho, J. S. Yoo, Y. E. Sung, T. Hyeon, *Nat. Mater.* **2020**, *19*, 436; c) Q. R. Zhang, X. Tan, N. M. Bedford, Z. J. Han, L. Thomsen, S. Smith, R. Amal, X. Y. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4181.
- [15] a) L. Zhang, N. Shang, S. Gao, J. Wang, T. Meng, C. Du, T. Shen, J. Huang, Q. Wu, H. Wang, Y. Qiao, C. Wang, Y. Gao, Z. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 8672; b) M. Xiao, J. Zhu, G. Li, N. Li, S. Li, Z. P. Cano, L. Ma, P. Cui, P. Xu, G. Jiang, H. Jin, S. Wang, T. Wu, J. Lu, A. Yu, D. Su, Z. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 9640; c) S. Wang, M. Qiao, Y. Wang, Q. Wang, G. Hu, X. Mamat, S. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *10*, 14123.

- [16] a) K. J. Chen, K. Liu, P. D. An, H. J. W. Li, Y. Y. Li, J. H. Hu, C. K. Jia, J. W. Fu, H. M. Li, H. Liu, Z. Lin, W. Z. Li, J. H. Li, Y. R. Lu, T. S. Chan, N. Zhang, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4173; b) R. G. Cao, R. Thapa, H. Kim, X. D. Xu, M. G. Kim, Q. Li, N. Park, M. L. Liu, J. Cho, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2076.
- [17] a) X. Liu, N. Fechler, M. Antonietti, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2013**, *42*, 8237; b) N. Fechler, T. P. Fellinger, M. Antonietti, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 75; c) J. Li, S. Chen, W. Li, R. Wu, S. Ibraheem, J. Li, W. Ding, L. Li, Z. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 15504.
- [18] a) M. Xiao, L. Zhang, B. Luo, M. Q. Lyu, Z. L. Wang, H. M. Huang, S. C. Wang, A. J. Du, L. Z. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 7230; b) W. Ding, L. Li, K. Xiong, Y. Wang, W. Li, Y. Nie, S. Chen, X. Qi, Z. Wei, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 5414; c) K. Hou, Z. Sun, Y. Liu, L. Guan, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2020**, *7*, 2932.
- [19] Y. Cheng, S. Zhao, J. Bernt, V. Jean, S. Martin, M. R. Rowles, M. Chen, C. Liu, M. F. Chishlom, D. M. Roland, H. Cheng, S. Yang, S. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706287.
- [20] H. Zhang, H. T. Chung, D. A. Cullen, S. Wagner, U. I. Kramm, K. L. More, P. Zelenay, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 2548.
- [21] a) B. X. Zhang, J. L. Zhang, J. B. Shi, D. X. Tan, L. F. Liu, F. Y. Zhang, C. Lu, Z. Z. Su, X. N. Tan, X. Y. Cheng, B. X. Han, L. R. Zheng, J. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2980; b) Z. K. Kou, B. B. Guo, Y. F. Zhao, S. F. Huang, T. Meng, J. Zhang, W. Q. Li, I. S. Amiinu, Z. H. Pu, M. Wang, M. Jiang, X. B. Liu, Y. F. Tang, S. C. Mu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 3702.
- [22] C. B. Lu, S. H. Liu, F. Zhang, Y. Z. Su, X. X. Zou, Z. Shi, G. D. Li, X. D. Zhuang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 1567.
- [23] a) A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M. T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, 937; b) Q. Y. Jia, N. Ramaswamy, H. Hafiz, U. Tylus, K. Strickland, G. Wu, B. Barbiellini, A. Bansil, E. F. Holby, P. Zelenay, S. Mukerjee, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, 12496.
- [24] Q. Wang, Z.-Y. Zhou, Y.-J. Lai, Y. You, J.-G. Liu, X.-L. Wu, E. Terefe, C. Chen, L. Song, M. Rauf, N. Tian, S. G. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 10882.
- [25] S. Maldonado, K. J. Stevenson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2005**, *109*, 4707.
- [26] L. Yang, L. Shi, D. Wang, Y. Lv, D. Cao, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *50*, 691.
- [27] L. Jiao, G. Wan, R. Zhang, H. Zhou, S. H. Yu, H.-L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 8525.
- [28] M. Zhu, J. Chen, L. Huang, R. Ye, J. Xu, Y. F. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 6595.
- [29] Y. J. Chen, S. F. Ji, Y. G. Wang, J. C. Dong, W. X. Chen, Z. Li, R. A. Shen, L. R. Zheng, Z. B. Zhuang, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6937.
- [30] a) S. Kattel, G. F. Wang, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2014**, *5*, 452; b) C. H. Choi, H. K. Lim, M. W. Chung, G. Chon, N. R. Sahraie, A. Altin, M. T. Sougrati, L. Stievano, H. S. Oh, E. S. Park, F. Luo, P. Strasser, G. Dražić, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, H. Kim, F. Jaouen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 3176.