---
source: Xu 等 - 2024 - Collective Effect in a Multicomponent Ensemble Combining Single Atoms and Nanoparticles for Efficien.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 8.658s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:42:50.088015Z
---

### *Forschungsartikel*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202400765 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202400765](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202400765)

### *Electrocatalytic O2 Reduction*

# **Collective Effect in a Multicomponent Ensemble Combining Single Atoms and Nanoparticles for Efficient and Durable Oxygen Reduction**

*Xiaochun Xu+ , Xinyi Li+ , Wenting Lu+ , Xiaoyuan Sun, Hong Huang, Xiaoqiang Cui, Lu Li, Xiaoxin Zou, Weitao Zheng, and Xiao [Zhao\\*](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8183-8205)*

**Abstract:** Metal single-atom catalysts represent one of the most promising non-noble metal catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). However, they still suffer from insufficient activity and, particularly, durability for practical applications. Leveraging density functional theory (DFT) and machine learning (ML), we unravel an unexpected collective effect between FeN4OH sites, CeN4OH motifs, Fe nanoparticles (NPs), and Fe CeO2 NPs. The collective effect comprises differently-weighted electronic and geometric interactions, whitch results in significantly enhanced ORR activity for FeN4OH active sites with a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.948 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (VRHE) in alkaline, relative to a commercial Pt/ C (*E*1/2, 0.851 VRHE). Meanwhile, this collective effect endows the shortened Fe N bonds and the remarkable durability with negligible activity loss after 50,000 potential cycles. The ML was used to understand the intricate geometric and electronic interactions in collective effect and reveal the intrinsic descriptors to account for the enhanced ORR performance. The universality of collective effect was demonstrated effective for the Co, Ni, Cu, Cr, and Mn-based multicomponent ensembles. These results confirm the importance of collective effect to simultaneously improve catalytic activity and durability.

#### *Introduction*

High-performance electrocatalysts for ORR, composed of earth-abundant elements instead of noble metals, are crucial

[\*] X. Xu,<sup>+</sup> X. Li,+ W. Lu,<sup>+</sup> X. Sun, H. Huang, Prof. X. Cui, Prof. W. Zheng, Prof. X. Zhao Key Laboratory of Automobile Materials of MOE, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Jilin University Changchun 130012, China E-mail: xzhao417@jlu.edu.cn Prof. L. Li, Prof. X. Zou State Key Laboratory of Inorganic Synthesis and Preparative Chemistry, Jilin University Changchun 130012, China

<sup>+</sup>] These authors contributed equally

for the widespread application of fuel cells and metal-air batteries. Among non-noble metal ORR catalysts, Fe-based single-atom catalysts (SACs) are a class of the most active ORR catalysts.[1] Pyrolysis is the most used method to prepare Fe-based SACs, but it often yields multicomponent ensembles consisting of nitrogen-containing functionalities, FeN4 motifs, FeN4OH motifs, Fe NPs, Fe3C NPs, FeOx NPs, and so on.[2] However, multicomponent systems are often essential for industrial catalysis, benefiting from their complex electronic and geometric effects, and the synergistic operations between multi-metal centers in catalysis.[3] However, understanding the nature of active ensembles and predicting the optimal components remain a grand challenge. In the realm of metal SACs for the ORR, it has been argued that the CNx substrate, Fe NPs, and FeOx NPs alone do not guarantee high ORR activity. Instead, the coexistence of a high content of FeNx and sufficient Fe/Fe3C NPs enables high ORR activity.[2d,4] In contrast to the positive role, the spectator role of carbon-capsulated Fe NPs was also stated.[5] In this regard, ML has displayed great potential not only for exploring new catalysts[6] but also for understanding complex catalysis systems.[7]

While the methods to enhance the activity of metal SACs have been intensively developed, the concerns regarding their durability persist. Metal SACs degrade probably via protonation, anion adsorption, demetallation, and carbon oxidation, among which, the demetallization has been regarded as a primary reason for performance decline.[8] As the Fe is located on the metal-O strong binding leg in the volcano of metal-O binding energies vs. the ORR activity, decreasing the adsorption energy of oxygenated intermediates on the Fe SACs, to some extent, reduces the risk for an oxidative dissolution of Fe atoms, thereby benefiting the durability. Improvement of Fe N or inhibition of the breakage of Fe N bonds is an emerging strategy to suppress demetallization. For example, the improved durability of Fe SACs has been achieved by selectively converting highly active and less stable FeN4C12 (S1 sites) to highly stable and less active FeN4C10 (S2 sites), in which, the S2 sites with shortened Fe N bonds intrinsically restrain the demetallization.[9] The introduction of radical scavengers into Fe SACs, for instance, CeO2 [10] and Ta TiOx NPs,[11] is another effective method to inhibit the demetallization via reducing the attacking from radicals in acidic ORR; however, whether these electrochemically stable scavengers

could enhance electroactivity of active metals remains less explored in alkaline.

Herein, leveraging DFT, we predict the optimal components to address the activity–stability trade-off. The orchestrated collective effect confers significantly high ORR activity with a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.948 VRHE in a half-cell and a high-power density in practical Zn-air batteries (ZABs). Simultaneously, robust durability has been achieved with negligible activity loss after 50,000 potential cycles. Importantly, we unravel and understand the intricate electronic and geometric interactions within multicomponent ensembles using the ML that estimates the weights of every descriptor. The universality of our strategy was demonstrated effective for Co, Ni, Cu, Cr, and Mnbased multicomponent ensembles. Thus, the collective effect represents a promising approach to design and prepare catalysis ensembles to simultaneously enhance activity and durability.

#### *Results and Discussion*

We carried out theoretical design and performance prediction by the DFT for the optimal multicomponent. Based on previous studies[12] and to simultaneously enhance ORR activity and durability, the components of FeN4OH motifs, CeN4OH motifs, Fe NPs, CeO2 NPs, and Fe CeO2 NPs were selected to construct 13 structural models, as detailed in Supporting Information Figure S1. Herein, Fe doping into CeO2 NPs was employed to generate rich Ce<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, inspired by the function of oxygen vacancies that benefit ORR kinetics.[10b,c] DFT calculations unravel a promising candidate that comprises FeN4OH motifs, Fe NPs, CeN4OH motifs, and Fe CeO2 NPs. Those components are supported on the N-doped carbon substrate (NC) and abbreviated as FeSAs<sup>+</sup> NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC. Its 4e ORR process is shown in Figure 1a, where the Fe SAs in FeN4OH motifs serve as active centers for the ORR. The Gibbs free energy spectrum illustrates that FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC possesses the lowest energy barrier among all candidates (Figure 1b). The ORR overpotential (*η*ORR) for FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC is 0.26 V, much lower than that for the Pt standard (0.45 V) and other candidates (Figure S2). This notably low *η*ORR arises from the collective contribution of all components, as the removal of any component would lead to increased reaction barriers. In addition, the introduction of CeO2 into FeSAs/NC reduces the *η*ORR from 0.74 V (FeSAs/NC) to 0.49 V (FeSAsCeONPs/NC). However, the introduction of CeO2 into FeSAs+NPs/NC slightly increases *η*ORR from 0.35 V (FeSAs+NPs/ NC) to 0.41 V (FeSAs+NPsCeONPs/NC). Thus, for the FeSAs+NPs/ NC catalyst, only the simultaneous introduction of Ce SAs and Fe CeO2 NPs leads to the decreased *η*ORR from 0.35 V (FeSAs+NPs) to 0.26 V (FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC). A scaling relation exists among OH\*, O\*, and OOH\* intermediates (Figure 1c); however, FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC exhibits a moderate adsorption strength simultaneously for OOH\* and OH\* intermediates among all candidates. Furthermore, the removal of any component in FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC would result in a deviation from the optimal center of adsorption energy (Figure 1d). Together, the FeSAs+NPsCeSAs <sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC ensemble was theoretically predicted to be a highly promising ORR catalyst.

Guided by DFT findings, we experimentally prepared FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC through the pyrolysis of a mixture including NC, a few ultrapure water, Fe(NO)3 · 9H2O, and CeCl3 salts (See details in Experimental and Figure 2a). The synthesis details were optimized and the results are shown in Figure S3–5. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns in Figure 2b reveal the coexistence of diffraction peaks corresponding to Fe NPs, Fe CeO2 NPs, and NC. The high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image in Figure 2c reveals dodecahedral NC particles with numerous bright spots corresponding to Fe and Fe CeO2 NPs.The high-resolution HAADF-STEM image in Figure 2d confirms lattice spacings of Fe NPs and Fe CeO2 NPs and nearby single atoms marked by purple cycles. The atomically-resolved Z-contrast STEM image in Figure 2e further highlights the atomically dispersed Fe or Ce SAs. The metal atoms with larger atomic numbers appear brighter in dark-field Z-contrast STEM images, which could be used to distinguish Fe and Ce SAs (Figure S6). STEM and associated element mapping images in Figure 2f verify the coexistence of Fe NPs (cyan circles) and Fe CeO2 NPs (red circles) in the microzone.

The electronic structure and local coordination environment were analyzed through X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS). As depicted in Figure 3a, X-ray absorption nearedge structures (XANES) are strongly sensitive to the formal oxidation state and coordination geometry of the absorbing atom. A characteristic peak at 7,118 eV (marked by the red arrow) emerges in the pre-edge region of Fe Kedge of iron phthalocyanine (FePc), indicative of its squareplanar FeN4 coordination (D4h).[13] In contrast, this peak is absent in the spectrum of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC, suggesting a disrupted or non-existent D4h symmetry. Earlier investigations have noted that an axial OH ligand can disrupt the D4h symmetry of FeN4 moieties.[14] Thus, according to Fe K-edge XANES features and previous investigations[14] the FeN4OH coordination is more reasonable relative to the FeN4. The edge energy of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs <sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC lies between that of FePc and Fe2O3. The averaging oxidation valence of Fe, contributed by Fe NPs, Fe SAs, and Fe dopants, is estimated at +2.58 (Figure S7). The formal oxidation state of Fe SAs and/or Fe dopants should surpass the +2.58 largely, thereby further supporting FeN4OH coordination and consisting with the pre-edge features. The XANES spectra at Ce L3-edge for the CeO2 exhibit a typical doublet arising from the mixed multielectron with the final states of 2p4f<sup>0</sup> 5d and 2p4f<sup>1</sup> 5dtgL where L means an oxygen ligand 2p hole.[15] The XANES line shape at the Ce L3-edge for FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC is similar to that of CeO2 (Figure 3b). However, its rising edge energy shifts to lower energies and becomes close to that of the CeCl3 reference. Moreover, its white-line peak (see the red arrow) broadens and comprises considerable contributions from Ce<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (see the black dashed line). The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of Ce 3d also shows the presence of Ce<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, besides Ce<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> species in FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>

*Figure 1.* Prediction of the optimal components for the ORR. (a) Schematics of the 4e ORR on the FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC model. (b) Free energy diagrams for the ORR on all candidates at U=1.23 V, the PDS represents the potential-determining step. (c) Scale relations between Δ*G*OOH\* and Δ*G*OH\* as well as between Δ*G*O\* and Δ*G*OH\*. (d) The two-dimensional correlation of *η*ORR with descriptors of Δ*G*OH\* and Δ*G*OOH\* for all candidates.

Fe ONPs/NC (Figure S8) and is in line with the Ce L3-edge XANES spectra. The presence of respectable Ce3<sup>+</sup> could be ascribed to the Fe dopants that cause possible charge transfer to Ce in Fe CeO2 NPs.

The local coordination environment was probed by Fourier-transform extended X-ray absorption fine structures (FT-EXAFS, Figures 3c–3d). A large merged peak at 2.20 Å is seen for FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC and contributed by Fe O/N, Fe Fe, and Fe (O)-Ce scattering according to the best-fitted EXFAS results (see details in Tables S1–2). The fitted Fe O/N scatterings include contributions both from the Fe N scattering in FeN4OH active sites and the Fe O scattering in Fe CeO2 NPs, which are usually difficult to distinguish in the first shell due to their similar atomic sizes. Although these averaged fitted results make it hard to present precise structures on the Fe N and Fe O coordination, some indicative information remains useful for understanding the microscopic structures. The averaging coordina-

*Figure 2.* Physical Characterizations. (a) Schematics for the synthesis of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC. (b) XRD patterns of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC, FeSAs+NPs/NC, and FeSAs/NC. (c) The spherical aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC. (d) High-resolution STEM image shows the coexistence of Fe NPs and Fe CeO2 NPs. (e) Atomically resolved STEM image for single atoms marked by purple circles. (f) STEM image and associated element mapping images that present element signals from Fe SAs, Fe NPs (cyan circles), Ce SAs, and Fe CeO2 NPs (red circles).

tion number for the Fe O/N scattering path is about 4.3 indicative of the FeN4 with a fifth ligand and agreeing with the above XANES features. The FT-EXAFS at Ce L3-edge for FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC shows a main peak assigned to Ce O/N scattering in the first shell. This Ce O/N peak shifts to a smaller radial distance relative to the CeO2 reference (see dash lines in Figure 3d) due to that the Fe dopants into CeO2 cause contracted Ce O bonds.

The ORR performance was evaluated in 0.1 M KOH by linear scan voltammetry (Figure 4a). Various control catalysts were prepared for comparison (see their synthesis details in the Experimental Section). The *E*1/2 of FeSAs+NPs-CeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC reaches 0.948 VRHE, surpassing that of FeSAs+NPs/NC (*E*1/2=0.922 VRHE), FeSAs/NC (*E*1/2= 0.880 VRHE), and Pt/C (*E*1/2=0.851 VRHE) by 26, 68, and 97 mV, respectively. As listed in Figure 4b, the FeSAs+NPs-CeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC exhibits the highest ORR activity among all studied catalysts. The kinetic current density was calculated according to the Koutecky–Levich equation. The number of available Fe active sites was determined through an in situ electrochemical nitrite stripping method[16] (Figure S9) and utilized for calculating turnover frequency (TOF) that represents intrinsic activity per site. The calculated results in Figure 4c confirm that FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup> Fe ONPs/NC possesses the highest kinetic current density (jK@0.9 VRHE=35.15 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) and the largest TOF (TOF@0.8 VRHE=1.42 s 1 ) compared to FeSAs+NPs/NC (jK = 3.13 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , TOF=0.8 s 1 ) and FeSAs/NC (jK = 4.83 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , TOF=0.4 s 1 ). Additionally, FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup> Fe ONPs/NC exhibits the smallest Tafel slope of

*Figure 3.* XAS analysis of the electronic structure and local coordination environment. (a) XANES at Fe K-edge. (b) XANES at Ce L3-edge. (c) FT-EXAFS at Fe K-edge. (d) FT-EXAFS at Ce L3-edge. Fe Foil, FePc, CeO2, and CeCl3 references are used for comparison.

65.26 mVdec <sup>1</sup> (Figure 4d). The electron transfer number of the ORR and the H2O2 yield were evaluated by a rotating ring-disk electrode method. The FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC demonstrated nearly 100% 4e selectivity and the extremely small H2O2 yield (*<*2%) in Figure 4e.

The robust durability is an essential challenge for SACs given their intrinsically high Gibbs free energy. Indeed, the active FeSAs+NPs/NC catalyst exhibits noticeable activity loss after 20,000 potential cycles, evidenced by a negative shift in *E*1/2 of about 12 mV (Figure 4f). By contrast, the FeSAs+NPs-CeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC overcomes the activity-stability trade-off and demonstrates robust durability, showing negligible activity loss even after 50,000 potential cycles in an O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH solution (Figure 4g). In comparison to other Fe-based and Ce-based SACs in literature, the FeSAs<sup>+</sup> NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC is among the top-tier levels of activity and durability (see Figure 4h and Tables S3).

To unravel the intricate electronic and geometric interactions among multiple components and identify effective descriptors for the ORR, the ML was used to correlate ηORR with the d-band center (*ɛ*d), work function (*W*f), magnetic moment (*μ*B) of metal active sites (Fe or Ce), the amount of transferred charge (*Q*) between metal active sites and CN substrate, and the bond length between metal active sites and ORR intermediates (*d*) for all studied catalysts, as shown in Figure 5a. The 13 datasets were divided into 10 training sets and 3 test sets, and four distinct ML algorithms —k-neighbor regression (KNR), support vector regression (SVR), gradient-boosted regression (GBR), and random forest regression (RFR)—were implemented. Results indicate that the GBR algorithm exhibits the best accuracy with

## *Forschungsartikel*

*Figure 4.* ORR performance. (a) ORR polarization curves at 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> at 1600 rpm in 0.1 M KOH, a commercial Pt/C catalyst (TKK, TEC10E20E) was used as the benchmark. (b) Comparison of *E*1/2 between FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC and control catalysts. (c) jk and TOF of catalysts to present intrinsic activity. (d) Tafel plots derived from ORR polarization curves. e) RRDE determination of H2O2 yield and electron transfer number (n) during the ORR. (f) Durability results of FeSAs+NPs/NC after 20,000 potential cycles between 0.6 and 0.9 V in O2-saturated electrolyte. (g) Durability results of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC after 50,000 potential cycles between 0.6 and 0.9 V in O2-saturated electrolyte. (h) Activity (*E*1/2) and durability (the loss in *E*1/2 after potential cycles) of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC and reported Fe-based SACs.

a training score (R2=0.99 and root mean square errors (RMSE)=0.06) and a test score (R<sup>2</sup>=0.92 and RMSE= 0.02) compared to RFR, KNR, and SVR algorithms (see more in Figure S10). Moreover, the ηORR predicted by the GBR agrees well with that calculated by DFT and experimental results, affirming the reliability of the GBR algorithm (Figure 5b) to unravel the underlying relation between the intrinsic structural/electronic descriptors and the ηORR.

Unexpectedly, the GBR displays that the descriptors of *ɛ*d, *W*f, *μ*B, *Q*, and *d* all affect ηORR but with varying importance (Figure 5c). Thus, any single descriptor is insufficient to describe experimental results; however, the most significant descriptor is the *ɛ*<sup>d</sup> with a weight of 52.0% to determine ηORR. In other words, to reveal the reaction mechanism and experimental results need more than one descriptor. All calculated descriptors are listed in Table S4. These results show the complexity of multi-component ensembles and the understanding of their catalytic performance needs consideration of both geometrical and electronic descriptors. Thus, the collective effect revealed herein to account for the enhanced ORR activity of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup> Fe ONPs/NC is a comprehensive consideration of *ɛ*d, *W*f, *μ*B, *Q*, and *d* descriptors.

To explore possible reasons behind the high durability, we analyze the changes in the bond length of Fe N (*d*Fe N) from a view of Fe N covalency. Owing to the averaging effect in the XAS characterization and fitting process, it is hard to precisely differentiate and estimate Fe O and Fe N scattering paths, and thus the DFT calculations were adopted to assess the changes of *d*Fe N. As compared with FeSAs/NC, the *d*Fe <sup>N</sup> of FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC was slightly shortened from 1.91 to 1.90 Å due to the collective effect (Figure S11). Thereby, the shortened Fe N bonds probably suppress the demetallization and contribute robust durability. Figure 5d illustrates the collective effect comprises

*Figure 5.* Mechanistic investigation. (a) Schematic diagram of the ML process. (b) The relation between the *η*ORR calculated by DFT (hDFT ORR) and the *η*ORR acquired by the ML based on the GBR algorithm (hML ORR). (c) The Radar chart weights the importance of five descriptors. (d) Schematic illustration for the collective effect to simultaneously enhance activity and durability.

geometric and electronic interactions that work jointly for the solution of activity and durability trade-off.

The FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC was further used as a cathode catalyst to assemble ZABs (Figure 6a). The FeSAs<sup>+</sup> NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC-based ZAB achieved an open circuit voltage of 1.55 V (Figure 6b), the maximum power density of 240.5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 6c), and a specific capacity of 788.2 mAhg <sup>1</sup> at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 6d), which are higher than Pt/C-based ZABs (1.42 V, 132.3 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , 741.3 mAhg <sup>1</sup> , respectively). Moreover, the FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>

*Figure 6.* ZABs Performance. (a) Schematic illustration of ZABs. (b) The open-circuit voltage of ZABs. (c) Discharge and power density curves. (d) The discharge profiles at 10 mAcm <sup>1</sup> , the inset is an LED powered by a FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC-based ZAB. (e) Galvanostatic discharge curves at current densities from 2 to 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> .

Fe ONPs/NC-based ZAB at different discharge current densities ranging from 2 to 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> still exhibit much better performance than the Pt/C-based ZAB (Figure 6e). Therefore, FeSAs+NPsCeSAs<sup>+</sup>Fe ONPs/NC display the potential as the promising cathode catalyst for metal-air batteries.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, under the guidance of DFT and ML, we unravel and understand an unexpected collective effect in a multicomponent ensemble. This collective effect endows significantly enhanced ORR activity (*E*1/2, 0.948 VRHE) and

15213757, 2024, 15, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202400765 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte Chemie*

durability (negligible activity loss after 50,000 potential cycles). The ML reveals that it needs a comprehensive consideration of descriptors (*ɛ*d, *W*f, *μ*B, *Q*, and *d*) to fully understand ORR performance. Thus, the collective effect includes not only electronic (*ɛ*d, *W*f, *μ*B, *Q*) but also geometric interactions (*d and d*Fe N) for a full understanding of multi-component catalysts. The transition metals (Co, Ni, Cu, Cr, Mn)-based multicomponent catalysts have also been prepared and exhibit enhanced ORR performance relative to single-component counterparts (Figure S12), demonstrating the universality of the collective effect on improving ORR activity. Our results highlight the importance of multicomponent ensembles in electrocatalysis and provide a promising avenue for simultaneous enhancement of activity and durability.

#### *Supporting Information*

The authors have cited additional references within the Supporting Information.

#### *Acknowledgements*

The authors acknowledge financial support from the National Key R&D Program of China (2021YFB4000200). This work was also supported by "the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities".

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

Research data are not shared.

**Keywords:** collective effect **·** single-atom catalysts **·** ORR **·** durability **·** machine learning

[1] a) Z. Jiang, X. Liu, X. Z. Liu, S. Huang, Y. Liu, Z. C. Yao, Y. Zhang, Q. H. Zhang, L. Gu, L. R. Zheng, L. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Fan, T. Tang, Z. Zhuang, J. S. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1822; b) A. Mehmood, M. Gong, F. Jaouen, A. Roy, A. Zitolo, A. Khan, M.-T. Sougrati, M. Primbs, A. M. Bonastre, D. Fongalland, G. Drazic, P. Strasser, A. Kucernak, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00772-9)* **[2022](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00772-9)**, *5*, 311; c) Y. Zhou, X. Tao, G. Chen, R. Lu, D. Wang, M. X. Chen, E. Jin, J. Yang, H. W. Liang, Y. Zhao, X. Feng, A. Narita, K. Mullen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5892; d) G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B. A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J. N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734; e) F. Liu, L. Shi, X. N. Lin, B. Zhang, Y. D. Long, F. H. Yan, R. Y. Cheng, C. G. Hu, D. Liu, J. S. Qiu, L. M. Dai, *Sci. Adv.* **2023**, *9*, 0366; f) L. Zhao, Y. Zhang, L.-B. Huang, X.-Z. Liu, Q.-H. Zhang, C. He, Z.-Y. Wu, L.-J. Zhang, J. Wu, W. Yang, L. Gu, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *Nat.*

- *Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1278; g) Z. Li, L. Wei, W.-J. Jiang, Z. Hu, H. Luo, W. Zhao, T. Xu, W. Wu, M. Wu, J.-S. Hu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.03.046) B* **[2019](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.03.046)**, *251*, 240; h) K. Liu, J. Fu, Y. Lin, T. Luo, G. Ni, H. Li, Z. Lin, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2075; i) X. Wan, Q. Liu, J. Liu, S. Liu, X. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Shang, R. Yu, J. Shui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2963; j) H. Huang, D. Yu, F. Hu, S. C. Huang, J. Song, H. Y. Chen, L. L. Li, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116068; k) P. Zhu, X. Xiong, X. Wang, C. Ye, J. Li, W. Sun, X. Sun, J. Jiang, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c03623) Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 9507; l) S. K. Kaiser, Z. Chen, D. Faust Akl, S. Mitchell, J. Pérez-Ramírez, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00576) Rev.* **2020**, *120*, [11703](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00576).
- [2] a) U. Tylus, Q. Jia, K. Strickland, N. Ramaswamy, A. Serov, P. Atanassov, S. Mukerjee, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp500781v) C* **2014**, *118*, 8999; b) A. Zitolo, V. Goellner, V. Armel, M.-T. Sougrati, T. Mineva, L. Stievano, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4367)* **2015**, *14*, [937](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4367); c) Z.-Y. Wu, X.-X. Xu, B.-C. Hu, H.-W. Liang, Y. Lin, L.- F. Chen, S.-H. Yu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201502173) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 8179; d) W.-J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L.-J. Zhang, J.-Q. Wang, J.-S. Hu, Z. Wei, L.-J. Wan, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00757) Soc.* **[2016](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00757)**, *138*, 3570; e) S. Wagner, H. Auerbach, C. E. Tait, I. Martinaiou, S. C. N. Kumar, C. Kübel, I. Sergeev, H.-C. Wille, J. Behrends, J. A. Wolny, V. Schünemann, U. I. Kramm, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201903753) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 10486; f) H. T. Chung, D. A. Cullen, D. Higgins, B. T. Sneed, E. F. Holby, K. L. More, P. Zelenay, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aan2255)* **2017**, *357*, 479; g) X. Wan, Q. Liu, J. Liu, S. Liu, X. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Shang, R. Yu, J. Shui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2963; h) J. Li, H. Zhang, W. Samarakoon, W. Shan, D. A. Cullen, S. Karakalos, M. Chen, D. Gu, K. L. More, G. Wang, Z. Feng, Z. Wang, G. Wu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201909312) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [18971;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201909312) i) G. M. Tomboc, T. Kim, S. Jung, H. J. Yoon, K. Lee, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2105680.
- [3] Y. Guo, M. Wang, Q. Zhu, D. Xiao, D. Ma, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00839-7)* **2022**, *5*, [766](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00839-7).
- [4] a) W. J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. J. Zhang, J. Q. Wang, J. S. Hu, Z. Wei, L. J. Wan, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00757) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [3570;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b00757) b) W. Yang, X. Liu, X. Yue, J. Jia, S. Guo, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja5129132) Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja5129132) Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 1436; c) H. Tan, Y. Li, J. Kim, T. Takei, Z. Wang, X. Xu, J. Wang, Y. Bando, Y. M. Kang, J. Tang, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Sci.* **2018**, *5*, 1800120; d) Y. Qiao, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, J. Zhang, S. Mu, J. Zhou, H. Li, H. Xia, J. He, Q. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1804504; e) X. Wei, S. Song, N. Wu, X. Luo, L. Zheng, L. Jiao, H. Wang, Q. Fang, L. Hu, W. Gu, W. Song, C. Zhu, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.105840)* **2021**, *84*, 105840.
- [5] a) M.-X. Chen, M. Zhu, M. Zuo, S.-Q. Chu, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, H.-W. Liang, X. Feng, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201912275) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 1627; b) U. I. Kramm, I. Herrmann-Geppert, J. Behrends, K. Lips, S. Fiechter, P. Bogdanoff, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b11015) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 635.
- [6] a) D. H. Mok, H. Li, G. Zhang, C. Lee, K. Jiang, S. Back, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1822; b) J. Moon, W. Beker, M. Siek, J. Kim, H. S. Lee, T. Hyeon, B. A. Grzybowski, *Nat. Mater.* **2023**, *23*, 108.
- [7] a) L. Chen, X. Zhang, A. Chen, S. Yao, X. Hu, Z. Zhou, *[Chin.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63852-4) J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63852-4)* **2022**, *43*, 11; b) H. Mai, T. C. Le, D. Chen, D. A. Winkler, R. A. Caruso, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.2c00061) Rev.* **2022**, *122*, 13478; c) P. Schlexer Lamoureux, K. T. Winther, J. A. Garrido Torres, V. Streibel, M. Zhao, M. Bajdich, F. Abild-Pedersen, T. Bligaard, *[ChemCatChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201900595)* **2019**, *11*, 3581; d) M. Tamtaji, H. Gao, M. D. Hossain, P. R. Galligan, H. Wong, Z. Liu, H. Liu, Y. Cai, W. A. Goddard, Z. Luo, *J. Mater. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA02039D) A* **2022**, *10*, 15309.
- [8] a) Y. Shao, J.-P. Dodelet, G. Wu, P. Zelenay, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807615; b) D. Banham, S. Ye, K. Pei, J.-i. Ozaki, T. Kishimoto, Y. Imashiro, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.03.047)* **2015**, *285*, 334; c) Q. Ma, H. Jin, J. Zhu, Z. Li, H. Xu, B. Liu, Z. Zhang, J. Ma, S. Mu, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2102209.
- [9] a) J. Li, M. T. Sougrati, A. Zitolo, J. M. Ablett, I. C. Oğuz, T. Mineva, I. Matanovic, P. Atanassov, Y. Huang, I. Zenyuk, A.

### *Forschungsartikel*

- Di Cicco, K. Kumar, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, G. Dražić, F. Jaouen, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-00545-2)* **2020**, *4*, 10; b) Y. Zeng, C. Li, B. Li, J. Liang, M. J. Zachman, D. A. Cullen, R. P. Hermann, E. E. Alp, B. Lavina, S. Karakalos, M. Lucero, B. Zhang, M. Wang, Z. Feng, G. Wang, J. Xie, D. J. Myers, J.-P. Dodelet, G. Wu, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-023-01062-8)* **2023**, *6*, 1215.
- [10] a) X. Cheng, X. Jiang, S. Yin, L. Ji, Y. Yan, G. Li, R. Huang, C. Wang, H. Liao, Y. Jiang, S. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202306166; b) F. D. Tu, Z. Y. Wu, P. Guo, L. X. Shen, Z. Y. Zhang, Y. K. Dai, M. Ma, J. Liu, B. Xu, Y. L. Zhang, L. Zhao, Z. B. Wang, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.01.057) Sci.* **2023**, *637*, 10; c) M. Zhang, H. Peng, K. Sun, X. Xie, X. Lei, S. Liu, G. Ma, Z. Lei, *Chin. J. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cjoc.202200217)* **2022**, *40*, 2763; d) J. Long, C. Chen, X. Gou, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2022.06.035) Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2022.06.035) Sci.* **2022**, *625*, 555.
- [11] H. Xie, S. Saha, X. Xie, G. Hu, V. Prabhakaran, A. H. Phakatkar, M. Hong, L. Gonzalez-Lopez, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, V. Ramani, Y. Shao, L. Hu, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-022-00988-w)* **2022**, *7*, 281.
- [12] a) M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08362)*

- *Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08362) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763; b) Y. Chu, E. Luo, Y. Wei, S. Zhu, X. Wang, L. Yang, N. Gao, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, J. Ge, W. Xing, *Chem Catal.* **2023**, *3*, [100532](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.checat.2023.100532).
- [13] M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08362) Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b08362) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763.
- [14] Q. Jia, N. Ramaswamy, H. Hafiz, U. Tylus, K. Strickland, G. Wu, B. Barbiellini, A. Bansil, E. F. Holby, P. Zelenay, S. Mukerjee, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, [12496](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05984).
- [15] a) S. Phokha, E. Swatsitang, S. Maensiri, *[Electron.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13391-015-4164-4) Mater. Lett.* **[2015](https://doi.org/10.1007/s13391-015-4164-4)**, *11*, 1012; b) J. Zhang, Z. Wu, T. Liu, T. Hu, Z. Wu, X. Ju, *J. [Synchrotron](https://doi.org/10.1107/S0909049500016022) Radiat.* **2001**, *8*, 531.
- [16] D. Malko, A. Kucernak, T. Lopes, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 13285.

Manuscript received: January 15, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: February 13, 2024 Version of record online: February 29, 2024