---
source: Xue 等 - 2023 - Atomically Dispersed FeN2 P2 Motif with High Activity and Stability for Oxygen.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 9.147s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:46:47.244521Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

*Oxygen Reduction Reaction Very Important Paper*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202307504 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202307504](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202307504)

# **Atomically Dispersed FeN2P2 Motif with High Activity and Stability for Oxygen Reduction Reaction Over the Entire pH Range**

*Wendan Xue, Qixing Zhou,\* Xun Cui, Jiawei Zhang, Sijin Zuo, Fan Mo, Jiwei Jiang, Xuya Zhu, and [Zhiqun](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3158-9340) Lin\**

**Abstract:** The past decade has witnessed the great potential of Fe-based single-atom electrocatalysis in catalyzing oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). However, it remains a grand challenge to substantially improve their intrinsic activity and long-term stability in acidic electrolytes. Herein, we report a facile chemical vapor deposition strategy, by which high-density Fe atoms (3.97 wt%) are coordinated with square-planar parapositioned nitrogen and phosphorus atoms in a hierarchical carbon framework. The as-crafted atomically dispersed Fe catalyst (denoted Fe-SA/PNC) manifests an outstanding activity towards ORR over the entire pH range. Specifically, the half-wave potential of 0.92 V, 0.83 V, and 0.86 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) are attained in alkaline, neutral, and acidic electrolytes, respectively, representing the high performance among reported catalysts to date. Furthermore, after 30,000 durability cycles, the Fe-SA/PNC remains to be stable with no visible performance decay when tested in 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H2SO4, and only a minor negative shift of 40 mV detected in 0.1 M HClO4, significantly outperforming commercial Pt/C counterpart. The coordination motif of Fe-SA/PNC is validated by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. This work provides atomic-level insight into improving the activity and stability of non-noble metal ORR catalysts, opening up an avenue to craft the desired single-atom electrocatalysts.

[\*] W. Xue, Q. Zhou, F. Mo, J. Jiang, X. Zhu

Key Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria (Ministry of Education), Nankai University

Tianjin 300071 (P. R. China)

E-mail: zhouqx@nankai.edu.cn

W. Xue, X. Cui, J. Zhang, Z. Lin

School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology

Atlanta, GA 30332 (USA)

S. Zuo

School of Engineering, China Pharmaceutical University Nanjing 210009 (P. R. China)

Z. Lin

Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore

Singapore 117585 (Singapore) E-mail: z.lin@nus.edu.sg

## *Introduction*

To control the global warming rate and strive hard to achieve net zero emission, increasing the share and energy efficiency of renewable energies provide a possibility by carbon offsetting, which focuses on the mitigation of greenhouse gases.[1] Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) represents an important catalytic reaction that widely exists in numerous energy conversion devices, such as metal-air batteries,[2] fuel cells,[3] and H2O2 electrochemical production.[4] Yet, it suffers from sluggish reaction kinetics, particularly in acidic and neutral electrolytes.[5] Notably, a minimum Pt use of 0.4 mg cm <sup>2</sup> is required to achieve satisfactory ORR performance in a fuel cell stack, which accounts for more than 55% of its actual cost.[6] As such, tremendous efforts have been devoted to develop alternative ORR electrocatalysts to Pt-based counterparts over the past four decades. Among them, Fe-based catalysts stand out as the leading candidates.[7] To date, the best-performance Fe based catalysts display half-wave potential (*E*1/2) higher than 0.9 V vs. RHE for ORR in alkaline electrolytes.[8] Notably, atomically dispersed Fe N C active centers emerged as one of the most promising candidates due to their optimal atom utilization and unique size quantum effect.[9] It is worth noting that the unfavorable electronic distribution around the most typical motif of Fe N4 [8a] renders a strengthened adsorption of ORR intermediates (O\* and OH\*) on the active site over that of Pt,[10] further limiting its overall ORR performance. Introducing heteroatoms, for example, boron (B), phosphorus (P), and sulfur (S) has been demonstrated as a convenient and practical approach to ameliorating the electronic structure of the Fe N4 center due to the different electronegativity and atomic radius.[11] However, due to the relatively large atomic radius of P and S, the induced P and S easily creates abundant defects on carbon support, especially those local structures, where the metal centers are unsymmetrical coordinated (Fe N3S, Fe N3P),[11–12] thereby inevitably leading to inferior catalytic stability in harsh electrolytes. In this context, it is of key importance to introduce heteroatoms to tune the electronic structure of the primitive Fe N4 active center for improving ORR activity, and concurrently regulating the coordinated motifs to reinforce the stability of catalysts.

The commercial opportunity of ORR in acidic electrolytes is higher than that in alkaline electrolytes.[13] However, acidic ORR faces a great challenge due to its insufficient stability, which has become one of the urgent issues to be

## *Forschungsartikel*

solved. It has been documented that the durability of Fe N C moieties degrades by 40–80% over the first 100 h testing when they are exposed to H2O2 in acidic media[14] due to the effects of micropore flooding,[15] active-site protonation,[16] demetallation,[17] and/or carbon oxidation.[18] Additionally, the development of high-activity non-Pt group catalysts suffers a bottleneck, that is, the half-wave potential of Fe-based catalysts for ORR rarely exceeds 0.85 V vs. RHE in acidic media.[19] More importantly, ORR activity in close-to-neutral environments is particularly complex and sluggish, due to the neutral electrolytes typically possessing inferior ionic conductivity and low concentration of OH . [20] Besides, the relevant research is severely insufficient, although it is vital for various bio-electrochemical systems, e.g. microbial and enzymatic fuel cells,[21] micro-biosynthesis processes, water desalination,[22] and biosensing.[23] Therefore, the ability to develop ORR catalysts with high activity and good durability that perform well in all practical conditions (i.e., in alkaline, acid, and neutral media)

represents an important endeavor that underpins advances

in sustainable energy devices. Herein, we report Fe single-atom electrocatalysts with a regulated coordination motif and a high loading density (3.97 wt%) that imparts outstanding oxygen reduction activity and stability over the whole pH range. By a two-step non-contact chemical vapor deposition, the Fe species transferred in the gas phase are easily trapped by highly porous carbon support, and chemically transformed to isolated metal sites without aggregation. The introduction of P atoms is leveraged by polymerization of ethylenediamine (EDA) and carbon tetrachloride (CTC) that are considered as versatile precursors for mesoporous carbon nitride. During pyrolysis, a portion of carbon atoms in carbon nitride are substituted by P atoms, facilitating the formation of an optimized local environment. Density functional theory (DFT) calculation is performed to validate the feasibility of the proposed coordination motif. The developed Fe-SA/ PNC catalyst manifests a half-wave potential of 0.92, 0.83, and 0.86 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in alkaline, neutral, and acidic environments, respectively, surpassing those of the state-of-the-art catalysts.

## *Results and Discussion*

### *Morphology characterization of Fe-SA/PNC*

The Fe-SA/PNC sample with the Fe single atom loading of 3.97 wt% (Table S1) was prepared through a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) strategy with two-step pyrolysis (Figure S1), the whole process involved an evolution process from Fe compounds to gas-phase Fe, further engendered atomically distributed Fe sites in the porous carbon frameworks. Specifically, a nano-sized Zn-based MOF, ZIF-8, was first prepared under ambient condition and further adopted as the template and carbon precursor (Figure S4). Then, a thin coating of the polymer was clad on the ZIF-8 to ensure the P source was absorbed on the external surface of ZIF-8 homogeneously (denoted ZIF-8@PEC, Figure S5). Note that ethylenediamine (EDA) and carbon tetrachloride (CTC) are commonly used as versatile precursors for superhard sp3 -bonded carbon nitride that can be obtained at atmospheric pressure.[24] Subsequently, the ZIF-8@PEC sample was subjected to a furnace to pyrolysis at 950 °C in Ar atmosphere to obtain P, N-codoped carbon material (labeled as PNC). Based on the published references,[25] the introduced P atoms from the triphenylphosphine (PPh3) would squeeze into the carbon nitride skeleton and substitute a portion of carbon atoms[26] during the thermal treatment (Figure 1f). In the final step, Fe-SA/PNC was obtained via a non-contact CVD process, in which, the PNC and FeCl2 were pyrolyzed in Ar at 1050°C simultaneously in two different boats in the furnace. Note that the boat containing Fe compound was located upstream, and the evaporated Fe was transported into the PNC matrix with the aid of Ar flow. Furthermore, the NC (the product derived from a direct pyrolysis of ZIF-8), and the Fe-SA/NC (P-free Fe anchored single atom catalyst, Figure S7) samples were also prepared for comparison.

The powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) patterns (Figure S2) revealed that the characteristic diffraction peaks of ZIF-8 did not change and matched well with the standard sample, while there is no evidence of any other crystalline phases existed in the pattern of ZIF-8@PEC, which demonstrated that the polymer coating and the P loading processes did not destroy the high crystallinity of the ZIF-8. Moreover, the PXRD and Raman results (Figure S3) for NC and PNC demonstrated there are appropriate content of defects existed in the carbon matrix, and those defects are suitable sites for isolated Fe atoms to anchor.[27] Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) was used to examine the surface morphology of the Fe-SA/PNC sample. As illustrated in Figure 1a, Fe-SA/PNC roughly remained a typical dodecahedron shape of the precursor ZIF@PEC, but its surface turned bumpy and the edge became protruded, along with the abundant highly-opened pores. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) also revealed a porous structure of Fe-SA/PNC, and there is no small Fe particle can be detected (Figure 1b). Besides, the corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) demonstrates that the Fe, P, and N elements are homogeneous dispersed in carbon framework in Fe-SA/PNC (Figure 1c) and Fe-SA/NC (Figure S8). The results of N2 adsorption-desorption measurements of Fe-SA/PNC (Figure S13) and Fe-SA/NC (Figure S12) show that both Fe single-atom catalysts have a fairly high specific surface area, which originated from the precursors, however, the Fe-SA/ PNC possesses a superior micropore-mesopore hierarchically distributed porous structure with a large size range from 0.5 to 40 nm. Such porous architecture has long been regarded as beneficial to the rapid charge and mass transport in electrocatalysis.[28] Spherical aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HADDF-STEM) image demonstrated that the Fe species existed as the single-atom state in Fe-SA/PNC (Figure 1d) and Fe-SA/NC (Figure S9). The dense isolated bright dots with an average size below 2.0 Å indicate a conspicuously high density of Fe single-atoms. Note that the

15213757, 2023, 41, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202307504 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 1.* a) SEM image of Fe-SA/PNC. b) HRTEM image and c) the corresponding EDS results of Fe-SA/PNC, in which, green, red, blue, and yellow represent Fe, C, N, and P, respectively. d) HAADF-STEM and e) the magnified images of Fe-SA/PNC. f) The reported formation process of P-doped carbon nitride in the references, where grey, blue, and pink balls represent C, N, and P atoms.

Zn contents in Fe-SA/PNC and Fe-SA/NC (Table S1) are only 0.01 and 0.02 wt%, therefore, the additional assistance of Zn for further oxygen reduction can be excluded.

The chemical composition of Fe-SA/PNC sample was revealed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results (Figure S14). There are four peaks appeared in the highresolution C 1s spectrum at the binding energies of 284.7, 285.7, 287.2, and 289.4 eV, which can be attributed to the graphitic sp2 carbon (C=C), carbon coordinated with P (C P), C=O, and R C=O bonds,[29] respectively. The N 1s spectrum exhibited three obvious peaks at 398.5, 400.9, and 402.2, those peaks could be assigned to pyridinic N or Fe Nx, [30] graphitic N, and oxidized N, respectively. In addition, the characteristic peak around 131 eV in the P 2p spectrum originated from the presence of P Fe bonds,[30] and the peaks that appeared at 133.0 and 133.5 eV implied the existence of P C and P O bonds. Most importantly, the sharp peak located at 706.9 eV in Fe 2p spectrum indicates the presence of the Fe P bond,[31] and the peaks observed at 710.7 eV originated from the Fe 2p3/2. Moreover, the peak centered at 724.9 eV is evidence that the existence of the Fe 2p1/2 orbital.[32] The above evidence revealed that Fe singleatoms are bonded both with N and P in Fe-SA/PNC sample. Additionally, from the O 1s spectrum, although O atoms are incorporated into Fe-SA/PNC during the synthesis process, however, there is no clear peak that can be attributed to the Fe O bond, indicating the O atom has not existed in the first coordination sphere of Fe atom.

Synchrotron-radiation-based X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was used to explore the local coordination configuration of the Fe-SA/NC and the Fe-SA/PNC samples. As illustrated in Figure 2a, the Fe K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of Fe-SA/ NC and Fe-SA/PNC revealed that absorption threshold positions of Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC were both between FeO and Fe2O3, which demonstrating the average oxidation state of Fe in Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC samples were between +2 and +3. In addition, the pre-edge peaks in Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC were located at approximately 7113.4 and 7113.6 eV, which are close to the fingerprint peak appeared at 7113.1 eV in py-FePc,[33] demonstrating a clear coordination configuration of one Fe atoms coordinated with four heteroatoms existed in Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC, similar to the square planar structure in py-FePc.

Moreover, to unveil the precise local structures and coordination motifs of Fe atoms in Fe-SA/PNC, the extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) data were collected and fitted for further analysis. The Fouriertransformed (FT) EXAFS spectra (Figure 2b) manifest that there are one main peak and a shoulder peak appeared at 1.52 and 1.84 Å, which are similar to the Fe N coordination (1.53 Å) in py-FePc and the Fe P scattering,[30] note that the theoretically calculated bond length of Fe P in squareplanar para-coordinated FeN2P2 is 1.87 Å. However, only a major peak locates 1.53 Å at *R* space in Fe-SA/NC (Figure S15). Compared with Fe foil, there is no obvious peak that can be detected around 2.2 Å, demonstrating no Fe Fe coordination or metallic Fe particles existed in Fe-SA/PNC sample. Moreover, the quantitative least-squares EXAFS curve-fitting (Table S8) was used to uncover the coordina-

15213757, 2023, 41, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202307504 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 2.* a) Fe K-edge XANES spectra of Fe-SA/NC, Fe-SA/PNC, and references. b) EXAFS spectra of Fe-SA/PNC and reference Fe materials at *R* space. c) Wavelet transform of Fe K-edge EXAFS for Fe samples. d) EXAFS fitting curve for Fe-SA/PNC. e) EXAFS analysis of Fe-SA/PNC at *K* space.

tion structure of Fe centers both in Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/ PNC, based on the above results, Fe N and Fe P were selected as two pathways for Fe-SA/PNC backscattering and Fe N was served as the only scattering pathway for Fe-SA/ NC. The coordination numbers for N and P atoms were calculated as 2 and 2 at distances of 1.87 Å and 2.25 Å, respectively. By comparing with different theoretical models and fitting analysis (Figure S16), the results showed that among all simulated models, only one model with the structure of para-positioned Fe N2P2 active center in a square-planar configuration can best reproduce the experimental spectrum in a radial distance range of 1–3 Å (Figure 2d and e), where is the first coordination sphere of Fe atoms, as shown in Figure 2d and 2e, moreover, the possibility of the para-positioned Fe N2P2 was further validated by theoretical calculation. As revealed by the wavelet transform (WT) analysis of Fe-SA/PNC (Figure 2c and S17), the maximum intensity is at around 5.1 Å <sup>1</sup> , this value can be attributed to the Fe N coordination in py-FePc (~5.0 Å <sup>1</sup> ), which is clearly distinguished from the Fe foil (8 Å <sup>1</sup> ).[34] Collectively, the Fe species were proved atomically distributed in Fe-SA/PNC sample, with a FePc-like square-planar coordination structure, and two heteroatoms N and P were located in the para-position.

#### *Electrocatalytic performance of Fe-SA/PNC on ORR*

The catalytic activities of synthesized samples for ORR were performed on a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in a typical three-electrode system (Figure S18) from the alkaline electrolyte to the neutral and the strongly acidic electrolytes. As compared to the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of Fe-SA/ PNC obtained from 0.1 M KOH saturated with the different atmosphere (N2 or O2), a distinct cathodic peak at 0.84 V vs. RHE is observed in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH (Figure S19), indicating the effectiveness of Fe-SA/PNC for ORR in alkaline electrolyte. As illustrated in linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves for NC, PNC, Fe-SA/NC, Fe-SA/PNC, and Pt/C (Figure 3a), the Fe-SA/PNC sample displays an optimum activity among all tested samples with the largest limiting current density (*J*L) of 5.885 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , as well as the most positive onset (*E*onset) (Figure 3b) and halfwave potentials (*E*1/2) (Figure 3c) of 1.045 and 0.921 V vs. RHE, respectively. Compared with the Pt/C, the Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC exhibits a difference of 26 and 59 mV in *E*1/ 2. Considering the NC and PNC samples exhibit relatively low activity toward ORR with the *J*<sup>L</sup> of 5.04 and 5.28 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , accompanied by the inferior *E*1/2 of 0.797 and 0.843 V vs. RHE, therefore, the existence of high-density Fe single atoms is propitious to the ORR, which can be ascribed to the regulation of the Fe coordination environment, wherein, the active sites might be Fe Px, and/or Fe Nx rather than the N C or P N C. Moreover, the ORR performance of Fe-SA/PNC in 0.1 M KOH surpasses almost all other non-precious catalysts reported recently (Figure 3d). The Koutecky–Levich plot of Fe-SA/PNC was derived from LSV curves rotating at different rates (Figure 3e). After calculation, the electron transfer number for Fe-SA/PNC is in the range of 3.99–4.06 from 0.2 to 0.8 V (Figure 3f), demonstrating that the oxygen reduction process occurs on Fe-SA/PNC electrode follows a direct 4 e

*Angewandte*

*Chemie*

*Figure 3.* a) LSV curves for Fe-SA/PNC sample and references in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. b) The column Figure of *E*onset and *J*<sup>L</sup> for Fe-SA/PNC sample and references. c) Comparison of the *E*1/2 for Fe-SA/PNC sample and references. d) Comparing the *E*onset and *E*1/2 values for Fe-SA/ PNC and the recently reported catalysts in 0.1 M KOH. e) The polarization curves for Fe-SA/PNC at different rotating speeds. f) The K L plot for Fe-SA/PNC. g) The results of cyclic stability for Fe-SA/PNC. h) Photograph of the home-made Zn-air battery. i) Polarization and power density curves for Fe-SA/PNC and Pt/C-based Zn-air batteries.

pathway. Besides, the Tafel slope (Figure S21) for Fe-SA/ PNC (68 mV dec <sup>1</sup> ) is much lower than that of Pt/C (86 mV dec <sup>1</sup> ) and Fe-SA/NC (89 mV dec <sup>1</sup> ), confirming the most favorable kinetic process for Fe-SA/PNC in 0.1 M KOH. Furthermore, the Fe-SA/PNC also exhibits robust tolerance to methanol (Figure S23) and superior long-term stability (Figure 3g), there is almost no performance degradation can be observed after methanol injection and 30,000 CV cycles, indicating that the Fe-SA/PNC has extraordinary stability for oxygen reduction in an alkaline environment.

To validate the potential application prospect of Fe-SA/ PNC, we then tested catalysts in homemade zinc-air batteries. The Fe-SA/PNC and Pt/C samples were smeared on the Teflon-coated carbon fiber papers, respectively, and served as the air cathodes, which were further paired with the polished Zn foil in 6 M KOH (Figure 3h). According to Figure 3i, the performance of Zn-air battery which uses Fe-SA/PNC as the cathode catalyst achieved an exceptional maximum power density of 260 mWcm <sup>2</sup> along with a high current density of 433 mAcm <sup>2</sup> that surpass commercial Pt/ C-modified ones (159 mWcm <sup>2</sup> and 272 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), and superior to most reported catalysts (Table S6).

When evaluating the oxygen reduction performances of synthesized catalysts in acidic media, the Fe-SA/PNC also exhibits the optimal activity among all tested catalysts (Figure 4), which displays the most positive *E*1/2 of 0.864 V and 0.842 V in 0.1 M HClO4 and 0.5 M H2SO4, respectively, along with the lowest Tafel slope of 80 mV dec <sup>1</sup> and 70 mV dec <sup>1</sup> (Figure S21). By comparison with the recently reported non-precious metal carbon-based catalysts (Figure 4d and j), the Fe-SA/PNC exhibits the superior activity toward ORR, which undergoes a desired high efficiently 4 e transfer pathway (Figure 4e and k). In addition, the Fe-SA/ PNC electrode has an excellent resistance to methanol in acids (Figure S25), which surpasses the traditional Pt/C with high Pt loading of 20% (Figure S26). More importantly, due to the metallic corrosion, most ORR catalysts reported to date with high efficiency used in the alkaline solution are incapable in strong acid electrolytes,[35] in this respect, the stability performance is of the most critical indicator to decide if a catalyst is valid in the acidic environment.[36]

*Figure 4.* RDE polarization curves for Fe-SA/PNC and the references in a) 0.1 M HClO4, and g) 0.5 M H2SO4. The contrast between Fe-SA/PNC and the references for *J*<sup>L</sup> and *E*onset in b) 0.1 M HClO4, and h) 0.5 M H2SO4. Contrasting the *E*1/2 values for Fe-SA/PNC and the references in c) 0.1 M HClO4, and i) 0.5 M H2SO4. Contrasting the *E*onset and *E*1/2 values for Fe-SA/PNC and the recently reported catalysts in d) 0.1 M HClO4, and j) 0.5 M H2SO4. The polarization curves of Fe-SA/PNC at different rotating speeds in e) in 0.1 M HClO4, and k) 0.5 M H2SO4. The K L plots for Fe-SA/PNC in f) 0.1 M HClO4, and l) 0.5 M H2SO4.

Therefore, we tested the cyclic stability for catalysts in 0.1 M HClO4 and 0.5 M H2SO4, and then examine the HAADF-STEM to identify the changes. As manifested in Figure S22, the Fe-SA/PNC shows invisible activity decay after 30,000 CV cycles test in 0.5 M H2SO4, while this value increases to 40 mV in 0.1 M HClO4. Significantly, the Fe species in Fe-SA/PNC and Fe-SA/NC still remain isolated atomically-dispersed state after the stability test in acids, as illustrated in Supplementary Figure S10 and S11.

Additionally, the Fe-SA/PNC also displays an exceeding oxygen reduction catalytic performance in 0.1 M PBS electrolyte, as evidenced by a distinct reduction peak at 0.79 V (Figure S20). The Fe-SA/PNC displays a positively *E*onset value of 1.04 V (Figure S30) and a remarkable *E*1/2 of 0.83 V vs. RHE (Figure S27), which surpass mostly catalysts used in neutral solution reported to date (Figure S31). Moreover, Fe-SA/PNC also exhibits a robust resistance to methanol (Figure S24) and preferable cyclic stability, as demonstrated in Figure S28, the value of *E*1/2 had little shift after 30000 continuous cycles of CV. While, comparatively, the Pt/C manifests an inferior ORR activity (Figure S29) along with an unsatisfactory methanol tolerance (Figure S26) in 0.1 M PBS.

#### *Density functional theory calculations for Fe-SA/PNC on ORR*

The above experiments suggested that the exceptional ORR activity and stability could be related to the coordination motifs of Fe N2P2 in the Fe-SA/PNC. However, the current experimental techniques are still challenging in determining the precise coordination of Fe active centers. Based on the above XAS results, we cannot confirm whether N and P atoms are in the para-position or the ortho-position. Therefore, density functional theory (DFT) calculations for different configurations were performed to validate the origin of the impressive ORR activity and stability. Here, the 2D graphene was selected to simulate the carbon matrix, meanwhile, all possible models of Fe N4-xPx (*x*=0–4) are fabricated to investigate the influence of P in different sites. Notably, both Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC samples showed a clear fingerprint peak of py-FePc in XANES spectra. As such, a FePc-like square-planar coordination structure for the proposed models was adopted. The formation energy (*E*formation, Table S9) of all structures indicates that as the coordination number of P atoms increases, the materials synthesis becomes more challenging. The anomalous high *E*formation of 7.32, 4.85, and 4.53 eV for Fe P4, Fe N1P3, and ortho-positioned Fe N2P2 models suggest they are unlikely to be synthesized in actual production, therefore, the introduced P atoms inclined to form a Fe N3P1 or parapositioned Fe N2P2 structure with Fe single atoms. Meanwhile, considering the binding energy of all structures (*E*binding, Figure S32), the incorporation of P appears to result in reduced bonding strength between Fe single atoms and the carbon matrix. Furthermore, the difference between the binding energy and the cohesive energy (*E*binding-*E*cohesive, Table S9) of various models provides insight into the durability of different coordination patterns, that render the isolated state and avoid accumulation after long operation. Among the models calculated, only Fe N4, Fe N3P1, and para-positioned Fe N2P2 exhibited the negative *E*binding-*E*cohesive values, signifying that they are the only ones remaining stable in strong electrolytes after long-term testing. This suggests that N and P atoms are in the paraposition in Fe-SA/PNC instead of the ortho-positioned Fe N2P2 motif.

The overall reaction paths in alkaline and acidic solutions are slightly different.[37] In 0.1 M KOH, the detailed elementary steps for the oxygen reduction process are as follows:

$$O_2(g) + H_2O(l) + e^- + ^* \rightarrow OOH^* + OH^-$$
 (1)

$$OOH^* + e^- \rightarrow O^* + OH^-$$
 (2)

$$O^* + H_2O(l) + e^- \rightarrow OH^* + OH^-$$
 (3)

$$OH^* + e^- \rightarrow ^* + OH^- \tag{4}$$

but the first step of oxygen reduction in acidic solution varied:

$$O_2(g) + H^+ + e^- + ^* \rightarrow OOH^*$$
 (5)

$$OOH^* + H^+ + e^- \rightarrow O^* + H_2O(l)$$
 (6)

$$O^* + H^+ + e^- \rightarrow OH^* \tag{7}$$

$$OH^* + H^+ + e^- \rightarrow H_2O(l) + ^*$$
 (8)

The ORR reaction details and reaction mechanisms of Fe-SA/PNC in alkaline, acidic, and neutral electrolytes were further elaborated by calculating the binding free energies of reaction intermediates.[38] The optimized structure of the ORR intermediates (O2, OOH\*, O\*, OH\*) on Fe-SA/PNC and Fe-SA/NC are depicted in Figure 5d and 5 h. The free energy diagrams of Fe-SA/NC and Fe-SA/PNC for oxygen reduction in alkaline, neutral, and acidic electrolytes at zero electrode potential (U=0 V vs. NHE) and equilibrium potentials (U=0.455, 0.820, and 1.23 V vs. NHE) were calculated and then plotted.[39] First, the third and fourth steps of the electron-transfer steps for Fe-SA/PNC and Fe-SA/NC in the alkaline electrolyte are uphill (Figure 5a and e), indicating that the additional force is indispensable to overcome the activation energy barrier, and the situation in the neutral solution (Figure 5b and f) is similar to that in alkaline ones. More specifically, in the acidic electrolyte, both the para-positioned Fe N2P2 active sites in Fe-SA/PNC (Figure 5c) and the Fe N4 sites in Fe-SA/NC exhibit

*Figure 5.* The theoretical Gibbs free energy diagrams of ORR on para-positioned Fe N2P2 and Fe N4 active sites: a) and e) in alkaline; b) and f) in neutral; and c) and g) in acidic electrolytes, respectively. Possible ORR process on d) para-positioned Fe N2P2 and h) Fe N4 active sites.

consistently downhill free energy pathways at U=0 V vs. NHE, which indicates all the elementary electron-transfer steps for Fe-SA/PNC and Fe-SA/NC are exothermic. However, at U=1.23 V vs. NHE, the third and the fourth steps are endothermic in the para-positioned Fe N2P2 motif, and the fourth step shows the highest uphill free energy change with a barrier of 0.87 eV, demonstrating the ratedetermining step is the OH\* detached into OH in the acidic electrolyte. Note that the potential limiting step for Fe N4 is also the final OH\* desorption step (Figure 5g), but the free energy changes of the potential limiting step in Fe N4 (1.08 eV) were much higher than that of the Fe N2P2 structure, which suggests a more favorable ORR dynamics on para-positioned Fe N2P2.

## *Conclusion*

A highly efficient Fe single-atom electrocatalyst (Fe-SA/ PNC) was developed for ORR over the whole pH range 15213757, 2023, 41, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202307504 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

15213757, 2023, 41, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202307504 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

with outstanding long-term stability via a non-contact CVD approach. The dense and homogeneous distribution of symmetrically arranged para-positioned Fe N2P2 coordination structure is the key to rendering outstanding ORR performance. The half-wave potentials for Fe-SA/PNC are 0.92 V, 0.83 V, and 0.86 V vs. RHE in alkaline, neutral and acidic electrolytes, respectively. Furthermore, Fe-SA/PNC also demonstrates excellent tolerance to methanol. More importantly, Fe-SA/PNC-assembled Zn-air battery manifests a high power-density, outperforming the Pt/C-assembled counterpart, signifying the promising potential of Fe-SA/PNC as a non-precious metal alternative for largescale practical applications. The experimental and theoretical results substantiate that the modified motif enhances the intrinsic activity of the pristine Fe-N4 site. This study provides insight into highly efficient and stable single metalsite electrocatalysts, and delivers a conceptual advance in symmetrical coordination motifs to optimize the catalytic durability for oxygen reduction.

## *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China as a key technology research and development program project (grant No. 2019YFC1804104), the National Natural Science Foundation of China as a Shandong joint fund project (grant No. U1906222), and the Tianjin Science and Technology Bureau as a key science and technology supporting project (grant No. S19ZC60133). The authors would like to thank Shan He from Shiyanjia Lab [\(www.shiyanjia.com](http://www.shiyanjia.com)) for the schematic illustration drawing.

## *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could appear to influence the work reported in this paper.

### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** Non-Precious Metal **·** Oxygen Reduction Reaction **·** Phosphorus **·** Single-Atom Catalysts **·** Zinc-Air Battery

- [1] M. Borghei, J. Lehtonen, L. Liu, O. J. Rojas, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1703691.
- [2] a) J. Deng, L. Wang, F. Jin, Y. H. Hu, *J. Mater. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA01001H) A* **2021**, *9*, [10081–10087;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA01001H) b) J. Deng, L. Wang, F. Jin, Y. H. Hu, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA00923K) Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [11145–11150](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA00923K); c) J. Deng, S. Fang, Y. Fang, Q. Hao, L. Wang, Y. H. Hu, *Catal. [Today](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2022.01.003)* **2023**, *409*, 2–22.
- [3] K. Kodama, T. Nagai, A. Kuwaki, R. Jinnouchi, Y. Morimoto, *Nat. [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-020-00824-w)* **2021**, *16*, 140–147.

- [4] a) J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, C. Chen, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C.-J. Chen, R.-S. Liu, C. Wang, K. Yan, Y. Li, G. Wang, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09352) Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [20118–20126](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09352); b) Z. Zhuang, L. Xia, J. Huang, P. Zhu, Y. Li, C. Ye, M. Xia, R. Yu, Z. Lang, J. Zhu, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, T. Zhai, Y. Zhao, S. Wei, J. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202212335.
- [5] a) H. Xu, D. Cheng, D. Cao, X. C. Zeng, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0063-z)* **2018**, *1*, [339–348](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0063-z); b) L. Peng, J. Yang, Y. Yang, F. Qian, Q. Wang, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202544; c) M. Tong, F. Sun, Y. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Yang, C. Tian, L. Wang, H. Fu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202102053) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [14005–14012.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202102053)
- [6] a) A. Holewinski, J.-C. Idrobo, S. Linic, *Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2032)* **2014**, *6*, [828–834](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2032); b) Z. Chen, H. Niu, J. Ding, H. Liu, P. H. Chen, Y. H. Lu, Y. R. Lu, W. Zuo, L. Han, Y. Guo, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202110243) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [25404–25410](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202110243).
- [7] a) C. H. Choi, H.-K. Lim, M. W. Chung, G. Chon, N. R. Sahraie, A. Altin, M.-T. Sougrati, L. Stievano, H. S. Oh, E. S. Park, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, [3176–3182;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE01855C) b) W. He, Y. Wang, C. Jiang, L. Lu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, [2396–2409;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CS00665A) c) J. Masa, W. Xia, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500569) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, [10102–10120.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201500569)
- [8] a) Y. Chen, R. Gao, S. Ji, H. Li, K. Tang, P. Jiang, H. Hu, Z. Zhang, H. Hao, Q. Qu, X. Liang, W. Chen, J. Dong, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [3212–3221](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012798); b) J. Wu, Z. Zhuo, X. Rong, K. Dai, Z. Lebens-Higgins, S. Sallis, F. Pan, L. F. J. Piper, G. Liu, Y.-D. Chuang, Z. Hussain, Q. Li, R. Zeng, Z.-X. Shen, W. Yang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eaaw3871; c) S. Wang, E. Zhu, Y. Huang, H. Heinz, *Sci. Adv.* **2021**, *7*, eabb1435; d) Z. Zhang, C. Feng, D. Wang, S. Zhou, R. Wang, S. Hu, H. Li, M. Zuo, Y. Kong, J. Bao, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2473.
- [9] a) J. Wang, Z. Li, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1801649; b) P. Peng, L. Shi, F. Huo, C. Mi, X. Wu, S. Zhang, Z. Xiang, *Sci. Adv.* **2019**, *5*, eaaw2322; c) A. Zitolo, N. Ranjbar-Sahraie, T. Mineva, J. Li, Q. Jia, S. Stamatin, G. F. Harrington, S. M. Lyth, P. Krtil, S. Mukerjee, E. Fonda, F. Jaouen, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 957.
- [10] G. Chen, R. Lu, C. Li, J. Yu, X. Li, L. Ni, Q. Zhang, G. Zhu, S. Liu, J. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, 2300907.
- [11] Q. Li, W. Chen, H. Xiao, Y. Gong, Z. Li, L. Zheng, X. Zheng, W. Yan, W.-C. Cheong, R. Shen, N. Fu, L. Gu, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, D. Wang, Q. Peng, J. Li, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800588.
- [12] a) E. Zhang, L. Tao, J. An, J. Zhang, L. Meng, X. Zheng, Y. Wang, N. Li, S. Du, J. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202117347; b) T. Zheng, X. Han, J. Wang, Z. Xia, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NR04880A)* **2022**, *14*, [16286–16294](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NR04880A).
- [13] a) H. W. Liang, W. Wei, Z. S. Wu, X. L. Feng, K. Mullen, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407552k) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, [16002–16005](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407552k); b) H. G. Zhang, S. Hwang, M. Y. Wang, Z. X. Feng, S. Karakalos, L. L. Luo, Z. Qiao, X. H. Xie, C. M. Wang, D. Su, Y. Y. Shao, G. Wu, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [14143–14149](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06514); c) J. Wang, Z. Huang, W. Liu, C. Chang, H. Tang, Z. Li, W. Chen, C. Jia, T. Yao, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [17281–17284;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b10385) d) J. Li, S. G. Chen, N. Yang, M. M. Deng, S. Ibraheem, J. H. Deng, J. Li, L. Li, Z. D. Wei, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201902109) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [7035–7039](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201902109); e) Y. J. Chen, R. Gao, S. F. Ji, H. J. Li, K. Tang, P. Jiang, H. B. Hu, Z. D. Zhang, H. G. Hao, Q. Y. Qu, X. Liang, W. X. Chen, J. C. Dong, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012798) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [3212–3221.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012798)
- [14] a) Y. Shao, J.-P. Dodelet, G. Wu, P. Zelenay, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807615; b) K. Liu, J. Fu, Y. Lin, T. Luo, G. Ni, H. Li, Z. Lin, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2075.
- [15] J.-Y. Choi, L. Yang, T. Kishimoto, X. Fu, S. Ye, Z. Chen, D. Banham, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6EE03005J) Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 296–305.

- [16] P. L. Cummins, J. E. Gready, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja0038474) Soc.* **2001**, *123*, [3418–3428.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja0038474)
- [17] X. Xie, C. He, B. Li, Y. He, D. A. Cullen, E. C. Wegener, A. J. Kropf, U. Martinez, Y. Cheng, M. H. Engelhard, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-00546-1)* **2020**, *3*, [1044–1054](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-00546-1).
- [18] J. Wang, F. Xu, H. Jin, Y. Chen, Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1605838.
- [19] a) J. Li, W. Xia, J. Tang, Y. Gao, C. Jiang, Y. Jia, T. Chen, Z. Hou, R. Qi, D. Jiang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [9280–9291;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00719) b) X. Wang, Y. Jia, X. Mao, D. Liu, W. He, J. Li, J. Liu, X. Yan, J. Chen, L. Song, A. Du, X. Yao, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000966; c) M. X. Chen, M. Zhu, M. Zuo, S. Q. Chu, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, H. W. Liang, X. Feng, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201912275) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [1627–1633.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201912275)
- [20] a) L. Xie, X. Li, B. Wang, J. Meng, H. Lei, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [18883–18887;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201911441) b) L. An, Z. Zhang, J. Feng, F. Lv, Y. Li, R. Wang, M. Lu, R. B. Gupta, P. Xi, S. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, [17624–17631;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b09805) c) K. Iwase, T. Yoshioka, S. Nakanishi, K. Hashimoto, K. Kamiya, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, [11068–11072](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201503637).
- [21] H. Liu, B. E. Logan, *[Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1021/es0499344) Sci. Technol.* **2004**, *38*, 4040– [4046.](https://doi.org/10.1021/es0499344)
- [22] J. R. Varcoe, P. Atanassov, D. R. Dekel, A. M. Herring, M. A. Hickner, P. A. Kohl, A. R. Kucernak, W. E. Mustain, K. Nijmeijer, K. Scott, T. W. Xu, L. Zhuang, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE01303D) Sci.* **2014**, *7*, [3135–3191](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4EE01303D).
- [23] V. Georgakilas, J. N. Tiwari, K. C. Kemp, J. A. Perman, A. B. Bourlinos, K. S. Kim, R. Zboril, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00620) Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 5464– [5519.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00620)
- [24] Y. Qiu, L. Gao, *Chem. Commun.* **2003**, [2378–2379.](https://doi.org/10.1039/B307086G)
- [25] a) S. Guo, Z. Deng, M. Li, B. Jiang, C. Tian, Q. Pan, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [1830–1834](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201508505); b) X. Ma, Y. Lv, J. Xu, Y. Liu, R. Zhang, Y. Zhu, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp308334x) C* **2012**, *116*, [23485–23493.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp308334x)
- [26] a) Y. Zhou, L. Zhang, J. Liu, X. Fan, B. Wang, M. Wang, W. Ren, J. Wang, M. Li, J. Shi, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA05292G) Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 3862– [3867;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA05292G) b) M. Zhu, S. Kim, L. Mao, M. Fujitsuka, J. Zhang, X. Wang, T. Majima, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [13234–13242.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b08416)
- [27] T. Tarnev, H. B. Aiyappa, A. Botz, T. Erichsen, A. Ernst, C. Andronescu, W. Schuhmann, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908021) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [14265–14269.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908021)
- [28] a) Y. Liu, X. Quan, X. Fan, H. Wang, S. Chen, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201502396) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, [6837–6841](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201502396); b) L. Jiao, G. Wan, R. Zhang, H. Zhou, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201803262) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [8525–8529;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201803262) c) J. Liang, R. F. Zhou, X. M. Chen, Y. H. Tang, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, [6074–6079](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201401848).

- [29] H. Shang, X. Zhou, J. Dong, A. Li, X. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Lin, J. Pei, Z. Li, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, Z. Yang, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, T. Sun, X. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, J. Li, W. Chen, D. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 3049.
- [30] K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b11852) Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [2404–2412.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b11852)
- [31] K. Yuan, D. Lützenkirchen-Hecht, L. Li, L. Shuai, Y. Li, R. Cao, M. Qiu, X. Zhuang, M. K. H. Leung, Y. Chen, U. Scherf, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [2404–2412](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b11852).
- [32] Y. Wang, J. Wu, S. Tang, J. Yang, C. Ye, J. Chen, Y. Lei, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202219191.
- [33] a) L. Yang, D. Cheng, H. Xu, X. Zeng, X. Wan, J. Shui, Z. Xiang, D. Cao, *Proc. Natl. [Acad.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1800771115) Sci. USA* **2018**, *115*, 6626– [6631](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1800771115); b) L. Hu, C. Dai, L. Chen, Y. Zhu, Y. Hao, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, X. Feng, S. Yuan, L. Wang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113895) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [27324–27329](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113895).
- [34] J. Li, S. Chen, N. Yang, M. Deng, S. Ibraheem, J. Deng, J. Li, L. Li, Z. Wei, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [7035–7039](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201902109).
- [35] a) S. N. Zhao, J. K. Li, R. Wang, J. Cai, S. Q. Zang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107291; b) Z. Jin, P. Li, Y. Meng, Z. Fang, D. Xiao, G. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, [615–622](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00650-w); c) S. Yang, Y. Yu, M. Dou, Z. Zhang, L. Dai, F. Wang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908023) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [14724–14730](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908023).
- [36] J. Liu, M. Jiao, B. Mei, Y. Tong, Y. Li, M. Ruan, P. Song, G. Sun, L. Jiang, Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, [1175–1179.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201812423)
- [37] Y. Zhang, C. Wu, H. Jiang, Y. Lin, H. Liu, Q. He, S. Chen, T. Duan, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1707522.
- [38] a) Y. Chen, R. Gao, S. Ji, H. Li, K. Tang, P. Jiang, H. Hu, Z. Zhang, H. Hao, Q. Qu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012798) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3212– [3221](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012798); b) Q. Lv, W. Si, J. He, L. Sun, C. Zhang, N. Wang, Z. Yang, X. Li, X. Wang, W. Deng, Y. Long, C. Huang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 3376.
- [39] a) C. C. Hou, L. Zou, L. Sun, K. Zhang, Z. Liu, Y. Li, C. Li, R. Zou, J. Yu, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem.* **2020**, *132*, [7454–7459;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202002665) b) J. Chen, H. Li, C. Fan, Q. Meng, Y. Tang, X. Qiu, G. Fu, T. Ma, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003134; c) H.-T. Lien, S.-T. Chang, P.-T. Chen, D. P. Wong, Y.-C. Chang, Y.-R. Lu, C.-L. Dong, C.-H. Wang, K.-H. Chen, L.-C. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4233.

Manuscript received: May 28, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: June 21, 2023 Version of record online: July 12, 2023

15213757, 2023, 41, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202307504 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License