---
source: Yan 等 - 2019 - In Situ Synthesis and Electrocatalytic Performance of FeFe2.5 CFe3 NNitroge.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.237s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:47:34.485130Z
---

## **Accepted Article**

**Title:** In situ Synthesis and Excellent Electrocatalytic Performance of Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT for Oxygen Reduction Reaction

**Authors:** Ping Yan, Dewang Kong, Wenjing Yuan, Anjian Xie, and Yuhua Shen

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemElectroChem* 10.1002/celc.201900716

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201900716

10.1002/celc.201900716 ChemElectroChem

**FULL PAPER**

# **In situ Synthesis and Excellent Electrocatalytic Performance of Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

Ping Yan, Dewang Kong, Wenjing Yuan, Anjian Xie, and Yuhua Shen\*

**Abstract:** In this study, a novel one-dimensional nitrogen-doped carbon nanotube (N-CNT) with iron-based nanocomposite (Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT) was successfully synthesized in situ by a facile and low-cost method. In alkaline media, the typical product (Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT-30) showed an onset potential (Eonset=0.93 V vs RHE), a half-wave potential (E1/2=0.79 V vs RHE), and a current density (J=6.62 mA cm-2 at 0.2V vs RHE), especially comparable to the commercial 20% Pt/C (0.95 V, 0.82 V, 5.61 mA cm-2 , respectively). In acid medium, it also exhibits a good ORR activity. Moreover, the Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT-30 exhibited superior longterm durability and methanol tolerance to Pt/C in both alkaline and acidic media. The excellent electrocatalytic performance of this material is attributed to the abundant carbon defects in the carbon structure, the high content doping of pyridinic N and graphitic N into CNT, the multi-model Fe species as active sites, and most Fe species within CNTs avoiding the corrosion of electrolyte. This study paves a new way for highly active ORR electrocatalysts and promotes the rapid development of CNTs in some frontier fields.

## **Introduction**

To solve the energy and environmental problems of the world, excellent energy conversion and storage devices have attracted more and more attentions. Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is an important procedure in green electrochemical energy conversion devices and storage systems (such as fuel cell and metal–air battery, etc.) by virtue of their low emissions and high energy conversion efficiencies. [1] However, the high cost, scarcity, low tolerance to methanol poison effect and limited stability of Pt-based electrocatalysts seriously restrict their commercial applications.[2]So an enormous amount of intensive researches have been devoted to develop highefficiency non-noble metal electrocatalysts to replace Pt-based

[a] M. S. P. Yan, Mr. D. Kong, Dr. W. Yuan, Prof. A. Xie, Prof. Y. Shen, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Lab for Clean Energy & Green Catalysis, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, P. R. China

E-mail: [s\\_yuhua@163.com](mailto:s_yuhua@163.com)

ones, including transition metal oxide/graphene hybrids, [3] metalfree heteroatom-doped carbon materials[4] and metal–nitrogen– carbon (M–N–C, M = Fe, Co, Ni, etc.) complexes[5] etc.. Among these, M–N–C electrocatalysts could lead to a significant enhancement for the ORR activity owing to its advantage, such as a great number of active sites which are considered to be involved in the coordination of surface nitrogen with metals. [5c]

It is universally known that interactions in the composites among the doped nitrogen, transition metal, and carbon support play a significant role in increasing the possible presence of M– N<sup>x</sup> or Nx–C active sites that favor the catalytic performance for ORR. Especially, Fe–N–C type CNT materials are considered to be very promising candidates with Pt-comparable activity and long-term stability, which possess useful Fe–Nxmoiety having advantages over Co–N<sup>x</sup> moiety in acidic medium.[5c] Thus, different synthesis methods and precursors have been developed and applied to the preparation of such materials. Recently, Yang[6] et al. used the soft template of PEG-PPG-PEG Pluronic P123 and Fe(NO3)<sup>3</sup> as iron-containing precursors and catalyst to prepare a one-dimensional bamboo-like Fe3C nanoparticle/CNT hybrids. Jiang[7] et al. reported a Fe/Fe3C nanoparticles/carbon nanotubes (CNTs) complexes using commercial carbon nanotubes as templates and Fe(NO3)<sup>3</sup> as the precursor of iron by hydrothermal and high-temperature calcination method. Yasuda[8] et al. used the water-assisted chemical vapor deposition (CVD) means to compose vertically aligned (VA)-CNT and subsequent pyrolysis way utilizing iron(II) phthalocyanine as the iron-doped precursor to prepare Fe–N– C/VA-CNT composites. Cui[9] et al. synthesized transition-metal nanoparticles (Fe)/multi-walled CNTs composites using Fe(NO3)3·9H2O as metal-containing precursors applied to oxygen evolution reaction (OER) via a CVD process in the channels of ordered mesoporous silica (SBA-15) as a hard template. However, most Fe–N–C type CNT materials require a variety of templates or strict experimental conditions to control the structure and morphology of products during the synthesis process, which makes the preparation process extremely complex and involves higher energy consumption. This greatly limits its practical application.

Furthermore, recent studies have shown that when metal nanoparticles are encapsulated inside CNTs, the local work function of the CNT walls will change due to a unique host-guest

electronic interaction to make more active for the outer surface of the carbon layer. For example, Zheng[10] et al. prepared podlike nitrogen-doped CNTs encapsulating FeNi alloy nanoparticles that exhibited excellent electrocatalytic performance in the I ˉ/I3ˉ redox reaction for dye-sensitized solar cells. Deng[11] et al. reported highly active and durable nonprecious-metal catalysts encapsulated in carbon nanotubes for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Therefore, this structural feature can be considered as an efficient electrocatalyst for ORR.

Herein, we demonstrated a facile and low-cost approach for a rational design and simple synthesis of nitrogen-doped ironbased carbon nanotube composites Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT just through the pyrolysis of a simple mixture containing ferrocene as an iron-containing catalyst and melamine as nitrogen precursor. Most of Fe species confined within CNTs not only actualize the electrocatalytic functionalities on the surface of the CNTs, but also could be protected from the corrosion of electrolyte in acidic medium, which guaranteed the long-term stability. Therefore, the Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT exhibited a wonderful electrocatalytic activity, superior methanol tolerance, especially superb longterm stability that surpasses commercial Pt/C catalyst in both alkaline and acidic media towards ORR. Consequently, we believed that the as-synthesized Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT nanocomposites could be a possible candidate as highefficiency electrocatalysts applied in ORR.

## **Results and Discussion**

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration for the formation of FexCyNz/N-CNT.

As illustrated in Scheme 1, the FexCyNz/N-CNT nanocomposites were synthesized by a facile high-temperature pyrolysis method for the mixture of melamine and ferrocene. The prepared product was labeled as FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 (The number '30' means the initial mass ratio of melamine to

ferrocene). As control samples, FexCyNz/N-CNT-10 and FexCyNz/N-CNT-50 were synthesized according to the method mentioned above at the same preparation condition with different initial mass ratios of melamine to ferrocene.

Fig. 1a shows the XRD patterns of as-prepared products. For these three samples, a broad band presented around 26.5◦ can be observed, corresponding to the (002) planes of graphite carbon.[12] The diffraction peaks located at 37.2, 41.2, 43.5, 44.7, 50.2, 54.3 and 58.3, which can be unambiguously assigned to the (-202), (202), (021), (-402), (312) and (222) planes of Fe2.5C (JCPDS No. 36-1248), respectively. Meanwhile, with the initial mass ratio increase of ferrocene in raw materials, the peak intensity of graphite carbon decreased while the two peaks of near 43.5 and 44.7 have a significant intensity increase along with their relative intensity change, suggesting the decline of carbon content and formation of new substance. The stronger peak near 45.0 and another new peak at 65.0correspond to the (110) and (200) planes of Fe (JCPDS No. 65-4899), indicating that parts of iron-based compounds were reduced by the carbon and convert into zero-valent iron.[13] Furthermore, the peaks located at 43.4 and 44.3could be assigned to the (111) and (200) planes of Fe3N (JCPDS No. 49- 1662). Therefore, we deduce that the above both stronger peaks are attributed to the overlap of Fe2.5C, Fe3N, and Fe. The results of XRD patterns show that the as-prepared samples at the higher ferrocene content, such as FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 and FexCyNz/N-CNT-10, are composed of graphite carbon and Fe2.5C, Fe3N and Fe. In addition, the Raman spectra of different samples presented in Fig. 1b further confirm the presence of carbon. Two strong carbon characteristic peaks are observed at 1354 cm-1 and 1591 cm-1 , which are ascribed to the D band corresponding to the defects in the carbon structure and G band originated from sp<sup>2</sup> -hybridized carbon, respectively. And the intensity ratio of D band to G band (ID/IG) is commonly used to estimate the degree of defects.[14] The Raman spectra were further fitted in Fig. 1c.[15] Specifically, the value of ID1/I<sup>G</sup> for FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 is 2.06, higher than those of FexCyNz/N-CNT-10 (1.91) and FexCyNz/N-CNT-50 (1.67), suggesting that more defects existed in the carbon structure. In addition, N-doped graphite carbon in the products can be deduced from a broad 2D band at 2750 cm-1 based on previous reports.[16] The results of Raman spectra show the nitrogen introduced by hightemperature pyrolysis of FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 can produce more carbon defects. In addition, carbon defects are also created by

the release of some gases from the decomposition of the precursor during the graphitization process. Numerous studies [17] have shown that carbon defects are favorable to provide more active sites and the transfer of electrons, which are beneficial to accelerate the ORR process.

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD patterns, (b) Raman spectra of three samples, and (c) Curve fitting results for the Raman spectra, respectively.

In order to further research the chemical composition and chemical bonding structure, the XPS tests of three products were carried out. The XPS survey spectra in Fig. 2a show the presence of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and iron elements in asprepared products. Figs. 2b-d shows the high-resolution C1s, Fe2p, and N1s XPS spectra of different samples, respectively. For the C1s spectrum (Fig. 2b), the dominant peak located at 284.7 eV can be ascribed to sp2 hybridized graphitic C, whereas the peaks at 285.2, 285.8 and 286.3 eV correspond to sp<sup>3</sup> C, C-N and C-O, respectively. [18] We noticed that graphitic C is the dominant species in the different types of carbons and the presence of C-N bond in all products further confirms the N doping into CNT. In Fig. 2c, we can observe that two signal peaks appear at the binding energy of the Fe 2p1/2 orbitals about 725.4eV and 723.4 eV can be attributed to the Fe2+ and Fe3+ species, respectively. For the Fe2p3/2 band, the signal peaks located at 714.2 eV and 710.6 eV are ascribed to the binding energy of Fe2+ and Fe3+ , [19] indicating the possibility presence of iron carbide or iron nitride in the products. Compared with FexCyNz/N-CNT-50, the signal peaks of Fe2p1/2 and Fe2p3/2 for FexCyNz/N-CNT-10 or FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 have shifted to the lower binding energy, revealing the strong coupling between iron species and CNT in the products during the calcination. Moreover, high-resolution Fe2p spectra of FexCyNz/N-CNT-10 and FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 all exhibit a new signal peak at around 707.5 eV, which further confirm the formation of zero-valent iron, [7, 20] onsistent with the results of XRD. Fig.2d presents the highresolution N1s spectra for the products. The signal peaks at about 398.50 eV, 400.05 eV, 401.15 eV and 402.50 eV are observed, which are attributed to the pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, graphitic N and pyridine N-oxide, respectively.[21] In addition, the peak at 399.0 eV is assigned to the N-Fe bond except FexCyNz/N-CNT-50, providing an evidence for the formation of Fe-N compounds. This phenomenon is closely related to the higher content of ferrocene which facilitates the formation of N-Fe bond to generate Fe3N, indicating the FexCyNz/N-CNT-10 and FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 are Fe-N-C type electrocatalysts,[22] according with the previous XRD results. As we known, Fe speci es are the active center, which could efficiently enhance the adsorption of O<sup>2</sup> and weaken the O-O bond, therefore, could facilitate the further reduction of intermediates and ameliorate activities of electrocatalysts for ORR. [23] It is deduced that the multi-form Fe species in the prepared nanocomposite could greatly improve the electrocatalytic ORR performance.

**Figure 2.** (a) XPS survey spectra, (b-d) corresponding high-resolution fitting curves of C1s, Fe2p, and N1s spectra for FexCyNz/N-CNT-10, FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 and FexCyNz/N-CNT-50, respectively, and (e) the relative contents of graphitic N, pyridinic N, pyridine N-oxide, pyrrolic N and N-Fe, respectively.

Furthermore, as reported, graphitic N and pyridinic N are also active sites and beneficial for electrocatalytic activity towards ORR. [22, 24] In Fig. 2e, the FexCyNz/N-CNT-30 has the

highest content of pyridinic N, while the relative contents of graphitic N and N-Fe bonds gradually increase from  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-50 to  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-10. The total contents of graphitic N, pyridinic N and N-Fe calculated are 94.52 at.%, 90.7 at.% and 67.77 at.% for  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-10,  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 and  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-50, respectively. Therefore, the  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 shows an appropriate nitrogen content and a relatively high ratio of pyridinic N, leading to a balance between the contents and species of nitrogen. This balance is beneficial to ORR due to it can realize more active sites and the relatively higher electronic mobility in  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30. [12]

**Figure 3.** (a-c) SEM images of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-50,  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 and  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-10, respectively, (d) TEM images of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30, (e, f) HRTEM image of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 and carbon, and (g) STEM overlap image of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 and (h-j) the corresponding elemental mappings of Fe, C and N, respectively.

The morphologies and structures of the products are presented in Fig. 3. From Figs. 3a-c, we can observe that those products possess CNT structure with the rough surface. Apparently, the diameter distribution of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N /N-CNT-30 (Fig. 3b) is more homogeneous than that of the other two samples and few small nanoparticles formed outside the CNTs whereas the nanoparticles aggregate together seriously in Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-10 (Fig. 3c) and too little in Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-50 (Fig. 3a). TEM images of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 were shown in Fig. 3d. It is seen that the CNTs have an average size of 200 nm in diameter and 12 nm in wall thickness and some nanoparticles were dispersed inside or outside CNTs. To further clearly observe the micromorphology and elemental distribution of the representative product, STEM overlap image was provided (Fig. 3g). Elemental mappings (Figs. 3h-i) verify the existence of a highly homogeneous distribution of

C and N, while the iron elements are mainly distributed in the interior of the CNT, proving that most of the Fe species are inside the CNT. It is deduced that most of the Fe species within N-doped CNT could be protected from the corrosion of electrolyte, enhancing the electrocatalysis and long-term stability of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 towards ORR. HRTEM image was used to learn more about the information of these nanoparticles (Fig. 3e). There are two kinds of lattices of 0.190 nm and 0.208 nm in the HRTEM images of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30, which corresponds to the (110) plane of Fe and the (021) plane of Fe<sub>2.5</sub>C or the (111) plane of Fe<sub>3</sub>N, respectively. [13, 25] In addition, Fig. 3f reveals the wellgraphitized carbon layers with some broken fringes in the shells and a twisted morphology. [17] By combining with HRTEM and the Raman spectra results, it is can be reasonably deduced that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 possesses abundant carbon defects, which is believed to play a positive effect on ORR activity. The above results further confirm the coexistence of Fe, Fe<sub>2.5</sub>C, Fe<sub>3</sub>N, and carbon defects are in accordance with the analysis of XRD patterns and XPS or Raman spectra.

**Figure 4.** RDE polarization curves of ORR on Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-800, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-900 and Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-1000 in (a) 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> and (b) 0.1 M KOH. (c, d) Tafel slopes of all the samples in 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, respectively.

To investigate the electrocatalytic activities of samples prepared at different calcination temperatures towards ORR, the relevant electrochemical measurements were carried out in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solutions to optimize ORR activity of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30. In Fig. 3a, the onset potential (E<sub>onset</sub>=0.93 V vs RHE), a half-wave potential (E<sub>1/2</sub>=0.79 V vs RHE), and a current density (J=6.62 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.2V vs RHE) of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-

900 are higer than those of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-800 (0.88 V, 0.77 V, 4.96 mA cm-2, respectively) and Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-1000 (0.89 V, 0.78 V, 5.97 mA cm-2, respectively). In Fig. 3b, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-900 exhibits E<sub>onset</sub> (0.76 V vs RHE), E<sub>1/2</sub> (0.59 V vs RHE), and J (4.44 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.2V vs RHE), much better than  $Fe_xC_vN_z/N$ -CNT-800 (0.72 V, 0.50 V, 3.66 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively) and Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-1000 (0.73 V, 0.51 V, 4.03 mA cm-2, respectively). The above results display that the 900 °C is the optimum temperature for preparing products in both alkaline and acidic media. Tafel slopes for all the samples in both alkaline and acidic media are plotted to elucidate the reaction kinetics for ORR (Fig. 4c, d). As shown in the figures, tafel slopes for Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-900 in alkaline and acidic media are 87 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and 168 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Comparing to Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-800 (103 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and 214 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively) and Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-1000 (90 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and 182 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively), Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30-900 shows a lower Tafel slope, which confirms a more favorable ORR kinetic process.

**Figure 5.** The electrochemical measurement results in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. (a) RDE polarization curves of ORR on  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-10,  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30,  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-50 and Pt/C at a rotation rate of 1600 rpm with a scan speed of 20 mV s-1, the methanol tolerance for (b)  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 and (c) Pt/C, (d) RDE polarization curves of ORR on  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 for initial and after 30000 cycles, (e) RRDE voltammogram of ORR on  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30, and (f) corresponding electron transfer numbers and peroxide yield of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 toward ORR calculated from the RRDE data.

To investigate the electrocatalytic activities towards ORR, the relevant electrochemical measurements were carried out in O2saturated 0.1 M KOH solution and shown in Fig. 5. According to the results in Fig. 5a, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 exhibits an onset potential (E<sub>onset</sub>=0.93 V vs RHE), a half-wave potential (E<sub>1/2</sub>=0.79 V vs RHE), and a current density (J=6.62 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.2V vs RHE), much better than Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-10 (0.91 V. 0.76 V. 6.08 mA cm<sup>-1</sup>  $^2,$  respectively) and Fe $_x C_{\nu} N_z / N\text{-CNT-50}$  (0.92 V, 0.75 V, 5.61 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively), and especially comparable to the commercial 20% Pt/C (0.95 V, 0.82 V, 5.61 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively). Three of the products all show excellent electrochemical catalysis for ORR with positive onset potential, half-wave potential and high limiting current density. Additionally, the Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 shows a higher current density and a clearer plateau of limiting diffusion current because of higher electrocatalytic activity for the process of ORR. Furthermore, tafel slopes for all the products in 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> are shown in Fig. 7a and Fig. 7b, respectively. The excellent ORR activity of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 is further evidenced by the smallest tafel slope, which is very close to that of commercial 20% Pt/C.

Tolerance to methanol poison effect and long-term stability of the electrocatalysts are two most important indicators for affecting the performance, which is also used to evaluate the properties of electrocatalysts. Fig.4b and Fig. 4c present the methanol tolerance of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 and Pt/C, respectively. The RDE polarization curve of ORR on Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 exhibits no visible change after adding methanol into the electrolyte, whereas the electrocatalytic performance of Pt/C shows a strong indicating that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 attenuation. possesses prominent tolerance to methanol poison effect and has potential application in the field of methanol FCs. Then, we adopted the accelerated durability test (ADT) to evaluate the stability of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30. Excitingly, as shown in Fig. 5d, the Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 presents a very slow deterioration of the onset potential, half-wave potential and limiting current density after 30000 cycles, compared to the commercial Pt/C after 3000 cycles under similar conditions (Fig. S1a-c, supporting information). This ADT result demonstrates that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 has outstanding long-term stability.

RRDE test was used to help understand the mechanism of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 toward ORR, by detecting the electron transfer number and the percentage of peroxide yield during ORR process. Based on the data of RRDE voltammograms in Fig. 4e, the

electron transfer number and percentage of peroxide yield can be compared to Pt/C (0.89 V, 0.73 V, 5.02 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively). calculated according to the eq. 1 and eq. 2 (SI 1). From Fig. 5f, the The reason may be that iron species are easily leaches out under electron transfer number of ORR catalyzed by Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 an acidic operating environment, which leads to the loss of active is close to 4, suggesting that the reaction follows a dominant fourelectron pathway, which is similar to the ORR catalyzed by Pt/C. What's more, the percentage of peroxide yield catalyzed by Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 is less than 7.53 % during the ORR process. The above results prove that the Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 possesses excellent electrocatalytic performance towards ORR with amazing long-term stability and high four-electron selectivity, and may become a promising low-cost electrocatalyst to replace Pt/C.

Figure 6. The electrochemical measurement results in O2-saturated 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution. (a) RDE polarization curves of ORR on Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-10, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-50 and Pt/C, the methanol tolerance of (b) Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 and (c) Pt/C, (d) RDE polarization curves of ORR on Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 for initial and after 12000 cycles, (e) RRDE voltammogram of ORR on Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30, and (f) corresponding electron transfer numbers and peroxide yield of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30.

Furthermore, we also investigated the performances of these catalysts for ORR in acid medium. In Fig. 5a, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 exhibits an onset potential (Eonset=0.76 V vs RHE), a half-wave potential (E<sub>1/2</sub>=0.59 V vs RHE), and a current density (J=4.44 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.2V vs RHE), much better than Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-10 (0.75 V, 0.58 V, 3.93 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively) and Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-50 (0.73 V, 0.52 V, 4.07 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively). Apparently, the catalyst shows much poorer electrochemical performance

sites, thus affecting the electrochemical performance of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30.

It is clearly observed that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 shows better methanol tolerance (Fig. 6b) and long-term durability (Fig. 6d) than Pt/C in acid medium (Fig. 6c and Fig.S2a-c, supporting information). After 12000 cycles, the onset potential of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 shows a slight shift to negative, and the current density exhibits an unmarked attenuation with only about 2.28%, which is superior to Pt/C. Similarly, the results calculated according to the data of RRDE voltammograms in Fig. 6e indicate that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 presents an efficient electrocatalytic performance towards ORR through a four-electron pathway with a small amount of intermediate peroxide products (Fig. 6f).

The developed catalyst of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 exhibited improved durability may be attributed to stable structure of carbon Nanotubes. The iron particles were more stable under alkaline conditions during the test. Most of the nanoparticles within CNTs can avoid the corrosion of electrolyte in acidic medium to guarantee the long-term chemical durability. It is well known that Pt/C catalyst can be poisoned by methanol. That is because Pt/C has a propensity to adsorb methanol and the Pt surface would be poisoned by CO for existence of the Pt-CO bond which is a byproduct of methanol oxidation. [26] But for Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30, was barely influenced by the methanol. That is, Fe species in the catalyst act as active centers, which could efficiently enhance the adsorption of O<sub>2</sub> and effectively limit the oxidation of methanol.

Figure 7. (a, b) Tafel slopes of all the products in 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, respectively. ORR polarization curves of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>x</sub>/N-CNT-30 in (c) 0.1 M KOH and (d) 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> with 10 mM KCN.

To understand the nature of the active sites, poisoning experiments of the cyanide anion (CN-) on the ORR activity were conducted. [27] The CN is an extremely strong ligand, which could poison the active sites of the iron centres. Upon introducing 10 mM CN in 0.1 M KOH and 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, it resulted in a significant drop in the ORR performance of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 Whether E<sub>onset</sub> or J (Figs. 7c, d). If C-N is the main active site for Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30, the CN should have no detrimental effects on its ORR activity. Therefore, this result clearly showed that the main active site of  $Fe_xC_yN_z/N$ -CNT-30 contains ionic iron that coordinated with nitrogen.

On the base of above discussion, we conclude that the excellent electrocatalytic performance of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 towards ORR may be attributed to the proposed mechanism as follows: (i) a relatively high proportion of pyridinic N (54.98%) can increase spin density, current density, the density of  $\pi$  states of the C atoms near the Fermi level, and hydrophilicity strengthening the electrolyte-electrode interaction, thus boosting O2 adsorption and reduction; (ii) Carbon defects in the carbon structure are beneficial to accelerate the ORR process; (iii) the formation of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub> nanoparticles increases a great possibility of Fe-N<sub>x</sub> active sites; (iv) Most of the Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub> nanoparticles within CNTs can ameliorate interaction between active species and carbon materials, avoid the corrosion of electrolyte especially in acidic medium to guarantee the long-term chemical durability, thus significantly improve the ORR activity. [6] Overall, the superior ORR activity, methanol tolerance and long-term stability of Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-

CNT-30 make it a promising low-cost, highly efficient ORR electrocatalyst.

Figure 8. (a) The open-circuit voltage measurement of Zn-air batteries with Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 as the cathode catalyst, (b) Polarization and power density curves of Zn-air batteries with  $Fe_xC_vN_z/N$ -CNT-30 and Pt/C as the cathode catalysts, (c) Photograph of a blue LED bulb by two Zn-air batteries with the Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 based air electrode connected in series, and (d) Long-time galvanostatic discharge-charge curves of rechargeable Zn-air batteries at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> with Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 and Pt/C as the cathode catalysts.

As a proof concept, a two-electrode rechargeable Zn-air battery was fabricated in order to claim its superior electrochemical activity and stability of FexCvNz/N-CNT-30 in comparison with that of Pt/C.[28] The home-made Zn-air battery was constructed with a Zn plate serving as an anode, Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 serving as the air-cathode catalyst, and a 6 M KOH solution with 0.2 M zinc acetate serving as an electrolyte. Fig. 8a shows that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 based Zn-air battery had an opencircuit voltage of 1.464 V. It is seen From Fig. 8b that Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 owed a maximum power density of 134 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, superior to that of Pt/C (110 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). In Fig. 8c, a blue LED bulb was successfully powered by two tandem Zn-air batteries based on Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>y</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 eletrocatalyst, directly indicating the great potential of our designed eletrocatalyst for actual energy storage and conversion devices. Finally, when cycled at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the voltage difference retained considerably stable after more than 55 h, indicating a better long-term cycling stability than Pt/C, as shown in Fig. 8d.

## **Conclusions**

In summary, a facile, low-cost and effective strategy was used to synthesize nitrogen-doped Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT nanocomposites. The typical product Fe<sub>x</sub>C<sub>v</sub>N<sub>z</sub>/N-CNT-30 possesses outstanding electrocatalytic performance, superior methanol tolerance and

long-term durability in both alkaline and acidic media towards ORR when comparing with the commercial 20% Pt/C. Its great advantages of ultra-low cost and excellent long-term durability can be applied as a highly efficient electrocatalyst. The home-made Zn–air battery was constructed to prove a better long-term cycling stability than Pt/C, indicating the great potential of our designed eletrocatalyst. This work provides a new avenue to construct novel FexCyNz/N-CNT nanocomposites and it is a promising candidate of economical electrocatalyst materials for for actual energy storage

## **Experimental Section**

and conversion devices.

#### **Materials**

Melamine and ferrocene were purchased from Aladdin biochemical technology Co. Ltd (Shanghai, P. R. China). Methanol (CH3OH), ethanol (C2H5OH), Nafion solution, potassium hydroxide (KOH) and concentrated sulphuric acid (H2SO4) were obtained from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. (Shanghai, P. R. China). All reagents are analytically pure and without further purification.

#### **Synthesis of Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT**

As illustrated in Fig. 1, the FexCyNz/N-CNT nanocomposites were synthesized by a facile high-temperature pyrolysis method for the mixture of melamine and ferrocene. Melamine provided abundant nitrogen sources and ferrocene as both carbon precursor and necessary eletrocatalyst contributed to the growth of N-CNTs in the existence of melamine. Typically, 3g of melamine was dispersed into 30 mL of ethanol solution under magnetic stirring at room temperature. Then, 0.1g of ferrocene was added into the above dispersion and stirred for the formation of uniform dispersion. After evaporating the solution slowly, the powders were collected into the porcelain boat and transferred into a tube furnace. Finally, the samples were carbonized at 500C for 2h and then at 900C for 2h under argon atmosphere subsequently. The prepared product was labeled as Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT-30 (FexCyNz/N-CNT-30) (The number '30' means the initial mass ratio of melamine to ferrocene). As control samples, FexCyNz/N-CNT-10 and FexCyNz/N-CNT-50 were synthesized according to the method mentioned above at the same preparation condition with different initial mass ratios of melamine to ferrocene.

The details of all the characterization instruments and electrochemical measurements used in these experiments are presented in the supporting information (SI 1). [29]

## **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21671001 and 21571002), Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Environment-Friendly Polymer Materials.

Acknowledgements Text.

## **Keywords:** Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT nanocomposite• electrocatalyst • oxygen reduction reaction

- [1] D.-G. Lee, S.-H. Kim, S.-H. Joo, H. Ji, H. Tavassol, Y. Jeon, S. Choi, M.-H. Lee, C. Kim, S.-K. Kwak, G. Kim, H.-K. Song, Energy & Environmental Science **2017**, 10, 523-527.
- [2] a) N. Becknell, Y. Son, D. Kim, D. Li, Y. Yu, Z. Niu, T. Lei, B.-T. Sneed, K.-L. More, N.-M. Markovic, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 11678-11681; b) L. Bu, Q. Shao, B. E, J. Guo, J. Yao, X. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 9576-9582; c) A.-N. Oldacre, A.-E. Friedman, T.-R. Cook, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 1424-1427; d) J. Wang, Z. Huang, W. Liu, C. Chang, H. Tang, Z. Li, W. Chen, C. Jia, T. Yao, S. Wei, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17281-17284; e) Y.-J. Sa, D.-J. Seo, J. Woo, J.-T. Lim, J.-Y. Cheon, S.-Y. Yang, J.-M. Lee, D. Kang, T.-J. Shin, H.-S. Shin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 15046-15056.
- [3] Y. Tong, P. Chen, T. Zhou, K. Xu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *129*, 7227-7231.
- [4] a) K. Gong, F. Du, Z. Xia, M. Durstock, L. Dai, *Science* **2009**, *323*, 760-764; b) J. Tang, J. Liu, C. Li, Y. Li, M.-O. Tade, S. Dai, Y. Yamauchi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 588-593.
- [5] a) J. Meng, C. Niu, L. Xu, J. Li, X. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Xu, W. Chen, Q. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8212-8221; b) Q. Lai, J. Zhu, Y. Zhao, Y. Liang, J. He, J. Chen, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1700740; c) B. Wang, X. Wang, J. Zou, Y. Yan, S. Xie, G. Hu, Y. Li, A. Dong, *Nano letters* **2017**, *17*, 2003-2009; d) Y. Chen, S. Ji, Y. Wang, J. Dong, W. Chen, Z. Li, R. Shen, L. Zheng, Z. Zhuang, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6937-6941; e) S.-H. Ahn, X. Yu, A. Manthiram, *Advanced materials* **2017**, *29*, 1606534; f) W. Fan, Z. Li, C. You, X. Zong, X. Tian, S. Miao, T. Shu, C. Li, S. Liao, *Nano energy* **2017**, *37*, 187-194.
- [6] W. Yang, X. Liu, X. Yue, J. Jia, S. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 1436-1439.
- [7] W.-J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L.-J. Zhang, J.-Q. Wang, J.-S. Hu, Z. Wei, L.-J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3570-3578.
- [8] S. Yasuda, A. Furuya, Y. Uchibori, J. Kim, K. Murakoshi, *Advanced Functional Materials* **2016**, *26*, 738-744.
- [9] X. Cui, P. Ren, D. Deng, J. Deng, X. Bao, *Energy & Environmental Science* **2016**, *9*, 123-129.
- [10] X. Zheng, J. Deng, N. Wang, D. Deng, W.-H. Zhang, X. Bao, C. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 7023-7027.
- [11] J. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, L. Yu, F. Yang, X. Bao, *Energy &*
- [12] J. Li, Y. Song, G. Zhang, H. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Sun, X. Guo, *Advanced Functional Materials* **2017**, *27*, 1604356.
- [13] L. Gu, L. Jiang, J. Jin, J. Liu, G. Sun, *Carbon* **2015**, *82*, 572-578.

*Environmental Science* **2014**, *7*, 1919-1923.

- [14] H.-P. Cong, P. Wang, M. Gong, S.-H. Yu, *Nano Energy* **2014**, *3*, 55- 63.
- [15] a) Q. Wang, Y. Lei, Y. Zhu, H. Wang, J. Feng, G. Ma, Y. Wang, Y. Li, B. Nan, Q. Feng, *ACS applied materials & interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 29448-29456; b) A. Sadezky, H. Muckenhuber, H. Grothe, R. Niessner, U. Pöschl, *Carbon* **2005**, *43*, 1731-1742.
- [16] a) Z.-Y. Wu, P. Chen, Q.-S. Wu, L.-F. Yang, Z. Pan, Q. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2014**, *8*, 118-125; b) P. Chen, T.-Y. Xiao, H.-H. Li, J.-J. Yang, Z. Wang, H.-B. Yao, S.-H. Yu, *ACS nano* **2011**, *6*, 712-719.
- [17] T. Sun, J. Wang, C. Qiu, X. Ling, B. Tian, W. Chen, C. Su, *Advanced Science* **2018**, 1800036.

- [18] D.-W. Wang, D. Su, *Energy & Environmental Science* **2014**, *7*, 576- 591.
- [19] a) H. Kong, J. Song, J. Jang, *Chemical Communications* **2010**, *46*, 6735-6737; b) W. Yan, Z. Yang, W. Bian, R. Yang, *Carbon* **2015**, *92*, 74-83.
- [20] J. Xi, Y. Xia, Y. Xu, J. Xiao, S. Wang, *Chemical Communications*  **2015**, *51*, 10479-10482.
- [21] a) O. L. Li, S. Chiba, Y. Wada, G. Panomsuwan, T. Ishizaki, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2017**, *5*, 2073-2082; b) W. Xia, J. Zhu, W. Guo, L. An, D. Xia, R. Zou, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2014**, *2*, 11606-11613.
- [22] Q. Lai, L. Zheng, Y. Liang, J. He, J. Zhao, J. Chen, *Acs Catalysis*  **2017**, *7*, 1655-1663.
- [23] a) K. Ai, Y. Liu, C. Ruan, L. Lu, G. Lu, *Advanced materials* **2013**, *25*, 998-1003; b) J. Yan, H. Lu, Y. Huang, J. Fu, S. Mo, C. Wei, Y.-E. Miao, T. Liu, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2015**, *3*, 23299-23306; c) C. Zhu, H. Li, S. Fu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Chemical Society Reviews*  **2016**, *45*, 517-531; d) Z. Huang, H. Pan, W. Yang, H. Zhou, N. Gao, C. Fu, S. Li, H. Li, Y. Kuang, *ACS nano* **2018**, *12*, 208-216.
- [24] a) Y. Zhu, B. Zhang, X. Liu, D.-W. Wang, D.-S. Su, *Angewandte Chemie* **2014**, *126*, 10849-10853; b) H. Tang, Y. Zeng, Y. Zeng, R.

- Wang, S. Cai, C. Liao, H. Cai, X. Lu, P. Tsiakaras, *Applied Catalysis B: Environmental* **2017**, *202*, 550-556.
- [25] M.-J. Park, J.-H. Lee, K. Hembram, K.-R. Lee, S.-S. Han, C.-W. Yoon, S.-W. Nam, J. Y. Kim, *Catalysts* **2016**, *6*, 1-11.
- [26] E. Antolini, T. Lopes, E.-R. Gonzalez, Journal of Alloys and Compounds **2008**, 461, 253-262.
- [27] a) M.-W. Chung, C.-H. Choi, Catalysis Today **2017**, 295: 125-131; b) D.-H. Kwak, S.-B. Han, Y.-W. Lee, H.-S. Park, I.-A. Choi, K.-B. Ma, M.-C. Kim, S.-J. Kim, D.-H. Kim, J.-I. Sohn, K.-W. Park, Applied Catalysis B: Environmental **2017**, 203: 889-898; c) B.-C. Hu, Z.-Y. Wu, S.-Q.Chu, H.-W. Zhu, H.-W. Liang, J. Zhang, S.-H. Yu, Energy & Environmental Science **2018**, 11, 2208-2215.
- [28] a) Z.-Q. Cao, M.-Z. Wu, H.-B. Hu, G.-J. Liang, C.-Y. Zhi, NPG Asia Materials **2018**, 10, 670-684. b) Z.-H. Wang, H.-H. Jin, T. Meng, K. Liao, W.-Q. Meng, J.-L.Yang, D.-P. He, Y.-L. Xiong, S.-C. Mu, Advanced Functional Materials **2018**, 28, 1-8.
- [29] P. Chen, L.-K. Wang, G. Wang, M.-R. Gao, J. Ge, W.-J. Yuan, Y.-H. Shen, A.-J. Xie, S.-H. Yu, *Energy & Environmental Science* **2014**, *7*, 4095-4103.

## **Entry for the Table of Contents** (Please choose one layout)

Layout 1:

## FULL PAPER

we skillfully demonstrate a facile and low-cost method to synthesize unprecedented one-dimensional nitrogen-doped carbon nanotube with iron-based nanocomposites (Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT) .Compared with the most Fe–N–C type CNT materials, our products do not require a variety of templates or strict experimental conditions to control the structure and morphology of products during the synthesis process, which makes the preparation process

simpler and lower energy

*Ping Yan, Dewang Kong, Wenjing Yuan, Anjian Xie\*, and Yuhua Shen\**

### *Page No.1 – Page No.8*

**In situ Synthesis and Excellent Electrocatalytic Performance of Fe/Fe2.5C/Fe3N/N-CNT for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**