---
source: Yang 等 - 2020 - Self‐Assembled Fe, N‐Doped Chrysanthemum‐Like Carbon Microspheres for Efficient Oxygen Reduction Rea.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 81.337s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:49:42.269689Z
---

# Self-Assembled Fe, N-Doped Chrysanthemum-Like Carbon Microspheres for

# Efficient Oxygen Reduction Reaction and Zn-Air Battery

Yvting Yang, Yi Wu, Xiaojuan Chen, Taotao Gao, Jinmei Zhang, and Dan Xiao\*

Abstract: Developing low-cost, high-activity, and stable carbon catalysts for electrochemical oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) has become the focus for the commercialization of Zn-air battery. Herein, we first time introduce the three-dimensional (3D) stereo ferrocene for constructing a novel structure with Fe, N-doped chrysanthemum-like carbon microspheres. This structure consists of open nanotubes with abundant cavities, which can facilitate the exposure of active sites. Ferrocene with the unique sandwich structure can not only play a pivotal role in inducing the chrysanthemum-like structure but also involved in as iron-related active species after pyrolysis. Eventually, FCN@F-1 exhibits outstanding ORR performance with an onset potential of 1.03 V and a half-wave potential of 0.87 V in alkaline media, which is superior to commercial Pt/C. The durability and methanol tolerance of FCN@F-1 also outperform those of Pt/C. Besides, the Zn-air battery assembled by FCN@F-1 air cathode manifests an open circuit voltage of 1.48 V, a prominent peak power density of 132 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, and excellent discharge platforms at different current densities, which can provide wide prospects for the development of Zn-air battery.

## 1. Introduction

With the rapid development of proton exchange membrane full cells (PEMFCs), Zn-air battery

Y. Yang, X. Chen, T. Gao, Prof. D. Xiao

College of Chemical Engineering

Sichuan University

Chengdu 610064, P. R. China.

E-mail: xiaodan@scu.edu.cn

This article has been accepted for publication and undergone full peer review but has not been through the copyediting, typesetting, pagination and proofreading process, which may lead to differences between this version and the <u>Version of Record</u>. Please cite this article as <u>doi: 10.1002/ente.202000145</u>.

Y. Wu, J. Zhang College of Chemistry Sichuan University Chengdu 610064, P. R. China.

has become more and more popular in the energy storage and conversion field as a promising and sustainable clean energy. [1,2] The oxygen reduction reaction at the air cathode takes a paramount role in achieving the optimal performance of these devices. [3,4] An essential requirement for the successful implementation of these electrochemical energy technologies is to develop high-performance electrocatalysts. There is no doubt that the platinum-group metal (PGM) materials are the outstanding electrocatalysts for ORR. However, their high cost, poor durability, and intermediate crossover poisoning have become the main drawbacks in the current technologies. [5-7] Due to the inevitable defects of PGM catalysts, various cost-effective ORR electrocatalysts including transition-metals, metal carbides, [8] metal sulfides, [9,10] metal nitrides, [11] metal phosphates, [12] metal oxides or hydroxides, [13,14] and carbon composites [15,16] have appeared to improve the ORR kinetics and further reduce the energy consumption during electrochemical process.

Among them, the transition metal-nitrogen doped carbon (M-N-C, M = transition metal), especially Fe-N-C materials, are considered as one of the most promising alternatives to the PGM catalysts for ORR. [17,18] For example, Dou et al. have reported a hierarchical porous Fe-N impregnated carbon-graphene hybrid, and the catalyst carries outstanding ORR catalytic capability. [19] However, how to select the precursors of these carbon materials is still a critical issue for the transfer of the obtained oxygen and product. Due to the fascinating three-dimensional (3D) network structure and flexible adjust-ability, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have become common self-sacrificing templates and precursors for preparing nitrogen-doped porous carbon catalysts. [17,20] To date, various research-oriented attempts have been dedicated to building MOF-derived Fe-N-C materials toward ORR. However, they lack sound design for morphology control of the consequential structures. [18] On the other hand, using iron precursors such as ferric nitrate [8,18] and ferric chloride [11,15] to prepare ORR catalysts has been studied by many researchers. But these precursors can only be used as a single iron source. It is ideal for

introducing a multifunctional iron precursor as the active center and further to induce the morphology structure of MOF-derived carbon materials. As is well known that ferrocene has a unique sandwich structure with two cyclopentadienyl rings bounding on the opposite sides of a central iron atom. It is ferrocene that opens the door of organometallic chemistry as a separate area of chemistry. [21] Notably, it can lead to an explosion of interest in compounds of d-block metals with hydrocarbons. Compared with inorganic ferric compounds, ferrocene has a unique sandwich structure, which may be expected to combine with the carrier well and induce the novel morphology structure of carbon materials.

In this work, ferrocene is firstly reported as a multifunctional iron resource for inducing the self-assembled Fe, N-doped chrysanthemum-like microspheres via a post-synthetic strategy. Ferrocene can be used not only as an iron source but also to control the morphology of the catalyst. The chrysanthemum-like microspheres with plentiful hollow nanotubes can provide a large specific surface area and expose more electrochemical active sites. Based on a series of electrochemical measurements, the as-obtained FCN@F-1 catalyst exhibits unusual ORR activity in alkaline media, endowing the more positive onset potential (1.03 V) and half-wave potential (0.87 V) than other contrast objects (such as FCN@F-n materials and commercial Pt/C). The morphology and ORR performance of the samples prepared by inorganic iron sources are also studied in detail, which confirms the optimized structure-activity relationship. Beyond that, FCN@F-1 also shows long-term durability and excellent methanol tolerance compared with commercial Pt/C. When FCN@F-1 is applied as an air cathode in the Zn-air battery, the as-fabricated Zn-air battery exhibits outstanding electrochemical performance with a power density of 132 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and stable discharge platforms at different current densities.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The synthesis process of ferrocene-induced FCN@F-1 is represented in Figure 1. Specifically, IRMOF-3 crystals are added into a methanol solution containing ferrocene, followed by stirring overnight and methanol evaporation to obtain Fc@IRMOF-3. The FCN@F-1 catalyst is obtained by directly pyrolyzing Fc@IRMOF-3 at 900 °C under the Ar atmosphere. The corresponding scanning electron

microscope (SEM) images characterize the morphology of different samples. IRMOF-3 with the unique pore structure (pore size: 10 Å and cavity diameter: 15 Å)<sup>[22]</sup> is chosen as the carbon source. The massive morphology of IRMOF-3 was illustrated in Figure S1a. And it can be seen that IRMOF-3 has a porous structure from the magnified SEM image of the IRMOF-3 (Figure S1b), which can facilitate the attachment of effective active sites. After modifying with ferrocene (molecular size: 6.4 Å), [23] Fc@IRMOF-3 precursor (with 1 mmol ferrocene) presents rhizome-like microspheres (Figure 2a). When Fc@IRMOF-3 is further carbonized, the obtained FCN@F-1 shows the blooming chrysanthemum-like morphology (Figure 2b). We can also find that numerous petals with sharp, tipcurved, and some bifurcation extend from the center in the magnified image of a single chrysanthemum-like microsphere (Figure 2c). Such a special structure can give FCN@F-1 plentiful defects and nanopores, which can hold more exposed active sites and provide strong support for the oxygen reduction process.<sup>[24,25]</sup> Besides, the morphology of the sample does not change significantly before and after carbonization, which indicates the structure of FCN@F-1 is very stable. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of FCN@F-1 (Figure 2d) further reveals that the chrysanthemum flap is a hollow structure containing abundant cavities. And this structure can offer effective mass transfer in the ORR process. The scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) mapping image (Figure 2e) indicates the coexistence of C, N, O, and Fe elements throughout FCN@F-1, representing the successful incorporation of iron. Regarding the influence of ferrocene on the morphology of materials, FCN@F-0.5 and FCN@F-1.5 are also prepared. In the SEM image (Figure S2a) of FCN@F-0.5 (with 0.5 mmol of ferrocene), many scattered nanowires are observed. When the amount of ferrocene increases to 1.5 mmol (FCN@F-1.5). Figure S2b presents that the structure has collapsed in large areas. It emphasizes that the appropriate addition of ferrocene can give support to build the chrysanthemum-like morphology, further accelerate the efficient mass transfer of the electrolyte and improve ORR activity. To explore the role of ferrocene in the process of morphogenesis, we also use centrifugal methods to prepare the precursor (denoted as Fc@IRMOF-3-C). The

corresponding SEM image (Figure S3a) shows the featureless morphology that is different from the morphology of Fc@IRMOF-3. Besides, the control precursor Fc@MeOH (without IRMOF-3) is synthesized by solvent evaporation, and the cross-linked nanotubes are observed in the corresponding SEM image (Figure S3b). The study above strongly indicates that ferrocene not only suits for trapped in the cavities of IRMOF-3 in the methanol solution but also induces forming rhizome-like microspheres during solvent evaporation.

Furthermore, the structural properties and surface functional groups of IRMOF-3 and Fc@IRMOF-3 are also conducted by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR FT-IR) shown in Figure S4a, b, respectively. In Figure S4a, the diffraction peaks of IRMOF-3 are in accordance with the previously reported results, [26] and Fc@IRMOF-3 shares the same characteristic peaks of 6.9°, 9.7°, and 13.8° as IRMOF-3. FT-IR spectrum of Fc@IRMOF-3 (Figure S4b) is also similar to IRMOF-3. Therefore, there is almost no change in the component of Fc@IRMOF-3. After carbonization, the powder XRD data of carbonized samples are shown in Figure 3a. It can be seen that an obvious peak at around 26° is attributed to the (002) crystal plane of graphitic carbon in all samples. And there is a broad peak at about 44° in NC, which is corresponding to the (101) crystal plane of graphite carbon. However, XRD patterns of FCN@F-n materials exhibit the relative weak diffraction peaks at 43.6°, 44.9°. which can be pointed to Fe<sub>3</sub>C particles. The other characteristic peaks at 43.7°, 50.8° are assigned to FeN<sub>0.0234</sub> (Figure 3a). Notably, the characteristic peaks (Fe<sub>3</sub>C and FeN<sub>0.0234</sub>) of FCN@F-1 are the strongest in all FCN@F-n samples, which may be the key to the excellent performance of FCN@F-1.[27] Furthermore, Raman spectra revealing the information of carbon of all samples are displayed in Figure 3b. the characteristic peak at 1345 cm<sup>-1</sup> (D band) is related to local defects and/or heteroatoms of the graphitic lattice in the disordered sp<sup>2</sup> hybridized carbon, while the peak at 1580 cm<sup>-1</sup> (G band) is allied to the tangential stretching mode of sp<sup>2</sup> graphitic carbon atoms. [28,29] The I<sub>D</sub>/I<sub>G</sub> ratio of FCN@F-1 (about 1.05) is higher than that of other control objects, revealing the introduction of ferrocene makes FCN@F-1 have the lower graphitized degree (containing more defects) in the carbon networks. [30] It should be

noted that more abundant defects can provide more active sites and further improve the electrochemically active surface areas.<sup>[31,32]</sup> All materials display a type IV N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherms, symbolizing the mesopores and micropores with a narrow distribution (Figure 3c).<sup>[33,34]</sup> The detailed information is further displayed in Table S1. Although FCN@F-1 holds a little lower specific surface area of 1066 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> than NC (1216 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>), the specific surface area of FCN@F-1 is still the biggest in all FCN@F-n materials. This phenomenon may be caused by the iron content-dependent morphological changes of FCN@F-1 (Figure 2 and Figure S1). The pore size distribution further reveals the hierarchical porous structure of FCN@F-1 in Figure 3d. Such the high specific surface area and porous structure possessed by FCN@F-1 will be able to support both kinetics and mass transfer of reactant and electron in the electrode, which are in favor of ORR performance.

To explore the elemental composition and valence states of the pyrolysis samples, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) is conducted and the XPS analysis is further listed in Table S2. As shown in Figure 4a, FCN@F-1 is composed of C, N, O, and few Fe, which is corresponding to 89.4 at%, 4.2 at%, 5.7 at%, and 0.58 at%, respectively. And the N content of FCN@F-n samples is a little lower than that of NC, which will be deduced that the introduction of ferrocene may affect the C content in the final carbon catalysts. The high-resolution C 1s spectrum depicted in Figure 4b can be separated into three peaks at 284.1 eV, 286.1 eV, and 289.7 eV, which are corresponding to C-C, C-N, and C-O groups, respectively.<sup>[34,35,36]</sup> Furthermore, the bonding states of nitrogen dopant atoms can exert considerable influence on the ORR performance of FCN@F-n materials. The N 1s deconvoluted spectra of the materials (Figure 4c) are divided into five types of nitrogen at 398.3 eV, 399.7 eV, 399.0 eV, 401.2 eV, and 403.9 eV, which are corresponding to the pyridine-N, pyrrolic-N, Fe-N<sub>x</sub>, graphitic-N, and oxidized-N, respectively.<sup>[37,38]</sup> In Table S3, what is particularly noteworthy is that FCN@F-1 possesses the highest content of Fe-N<sub>x</sub> (15.9 at%) and the lowest content of pyrrolic-N (8.7 at%) among all asprepared materials. Meanwhile, we can also find that an increasing amount of ferrocene brings out a lower content of pyridine-N species in all FCN@F-n samples. This result may be owed to the

conversion of erratic pyridine-N to Fe-N<sub>x</sub>, which are well-known active species towards ORR.<sup>[39]</sup> Some reports also have verified that the suitable content of graphitic-N and Pyridine-N can provide a higher current density and play a pivotal role in ORR.<sup>[34,40,41]</sup> In addition, the peaks of Fe<sub>3</sub>C (708.0 eV), <sup>[42]</sup> Fe<sup>2+</sup> 2p<sub>1/2</sub> (724.5 eV), Fe<sup>2+</sup> 2p<sub>3/2</sub> (710.4 eV), Fe<sup>3+</sup> 2p<sub>1/2</sub> (728.3 eV), Fe<sup>3+</sup> 2p<sub>3/2</sub> (712.3 eV), and shake-up satellite (719.7 eV) are also observed in the Fe 2p spectrum of FCN@F-1 (Figure 4d).<sup>[43,44]</sup> Previous research indicated that the synergistic effect between Fe<sub>3</sub>C and Fe-N<sub>x</sub> could favor the adsorption of oxygen molecule,<sup>[27]</sup> which may play a significant role in the outstanding ORR performance of FCN@F-1.

Electrochemical measurements are conducted in a typical three-electrode system with the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE) to evaluate the ORR performance of prepared catalysts. As shown in Figure 5a, the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curve of FCN@F-1 tested in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution (0.06  $V \sim 1.07 \text{ V}$  vs. RHE) exhibits the most positive reduction peak (1.15 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.87 V vs. RHE). However, this peak vanishes in the corresponding CV curve in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated alkaline media (Figure S5). This phenomenon indicates that the FCN@F-1 has a distinct ORR activity. In contrast, the CV curves of NC, FCN@F-0.5, and FCN@F-1.5 tested in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution show relatively mediocre reduction peaks at 0.80 V, 0.81 V and 0.82 V (vs. RHE). Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) tests of these samples and commercial Pt/C at 1600 rpm further reveal the kinetics of the ORR. As shown in Figure 5b, FCN@F-1 exhibits the most positive onset potential (1.03 V), the highest halfwave potential (0.87 V), the largest limiting current density (5.56 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) among all as-prepared catalysts, which even exceeds Pt/C. Besides, the control experiments on FCN@F-1 at different reaction times (4 h, 8 h, 10 h, 12 h, and 16 h) are also provided, and FCN@F-1 derived from 12 h shows the best ORR performance (Figure S6). The corresponding SEM images (Figure S7) reveal that the rhizome-like microspheres are gradually formed with the increase of reaction time, and they are created after 12 h, which indicates that the special structure is critical to the optimized oxygen reduction activity. These contrasts depicted in Figure 5c further demonstrate the superior electrochemical activity of FCN@F-1.

To verify the necessity of the post-synthesis method in this work, the reference sample Fe-N/C is synthesized via a solvothermal method. As shown in Figure S8, Fe-N/C behaves worse than FCN@F-1 towards ORR evidenced by the more negative half-wave potential and greatly decreased limited current densities. This phenomenon forebodes that the post-synthesis strategy is beneficial for constructing the chrysanthemum-like structure, which can improve the ORR process. In short, the ORR activity of FCN@F-1 exceeds that of many other non-precious electrocatalysts reported so far (Table S5). Furthermore, LSV plots at various rotating rates and the corresponding Koutecky-Levich plots are also recorded (Figure S9). The good linearity and high parallelism of these plots reveal the first-order reaction dynamics towards the concentration of dissolved oxygen over a wide potential range. Based on the LSV data at 1600 rpm, the peroxide yields and electron transfer numbers are calculated through the equation. As shown in Figure 5d, FCN@F-1 shows the lowest hydrogen peroxide yield (less than 5 %) and the electron transfer number (3.9 ~ 4.0), suggesting a four-electron transfer pathway. These experiments strongly support the conclusion that the introduction of ferrocene is conducive to improving the ORR performance.

To prove the superiority of the unique structure induced by ferrocene, we also design the control experiments with inorganic iron sources (ferric chloride for FCN@Cl-1, ferric nitrate for FCN@N-1). As shown in Figure S10, the ORR performance of FCN@Cl-1 and FCN@N-1 is poor in terms of the half-wave potential and limiting current density. This may be because FCN@Cl-1 and FCN@N-1 do not present peculiar morphology but some visible, aggregated particles with an uneven size (Figure S11). As shown in Figure S12a, the diffraction peaks of Fe and FeN<sub>0.0234</sub> are observed in the XRD patterns of FCN@Cl-1 and FCN@N-1. And their strong peak intensities indicate the big particle size, which is consistent with SEM result (Figure S11). Besides, the I<sub>D</sub>/I<sub>G</sub> ratio of FCN@Cl-1 and FCN@N-1 are smaller than FCN@F-1 (Figure S12b). FCN@Cl-1 and FCN@N-1 also hold the much lower BET area (422, 436 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) compared with FCN@F-1 (Figure S12c, d). The corresponding N 1s spectra further manifest that FCN@Cl-1 and FCN@N-1 have more unstable pyrrolic N than FCN@F-1, and no

FeN<sub>x</sub> is found in Figure S13 (more details are listed in Table S1, S2). The ICP-AES tests are performed to detect the Fe content displayed in Table S4. It can be revealed that the FCN@F-1 possesses the highest content of Fe element (1.64 wt%), and the higher content of Fe element makes the FCN@F-1 form more Fe<sub>3</sub>C and Fe-N<sub>x</sub> sites, which are responsible for the high ORR activity in FCN@F-1. Therefore, ferrocene with unique spatial structure is beneficial for the distribution of iron active center, improving atomic utilization rate, and modifying MOF materials to construct a novel structure to support excellent ORR process.

The Tafel slope is another vital index to evaluate the dynamic performance of all catalysts. As plotted in Figure 5e, FCN@F-1 has the smallest Tafel slope (82.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) compared with Pt/C (96.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), NC (116.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), FCN@F-0.5 (100.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and FCN@F-1.5 (93.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting the favorable kinetic process for ORR. The result also confirms that the transfer of the first electron may be the rate-determining step during the ORR process. [46] The Nyquist plots of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) demonstrate that FCN@F-1 exhibits a much smaller charge-transfer resistance than NC, indicating the favorable charge transfer process (Figure S14). The electrochemical active surface areas (A<sub>echem</sub>) of as-prepared catalysts with non-faradic periods (C<sub>d1</sub>) further reveal the amounts of active sites in the electrolyte. As shown in Figure S15, C<sub>d1</sub> of FCN@F-1 (about 14.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> at a potential range of 1.06 - 1.16 V vs. RHE) is remarkably higher than other catalysts (11.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for NC, 10.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for FCN@C1-1, 12.2 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for FCN@N-1, 11.7 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for FCN@F-0.5, 14.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for FCN@F-1.5). As expected, FCN@F-1 has a larger electrochemical active surface area (A<sub>echem</sub>) than other control materials. It can provide more active sites to expose to the electrolyte, which is compatible with SEM (Figure 2) and ORR results (Figure 5).

Besides the activity, the stability and methanol tolerance are another two essential indexes for the scale application of the ORR catalyst. The corresponding chronopotentiometry measurements of FCN@F-1 and commercial Pt/C at the potential of 0.6 V vs. RHE in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated alkaline media are shown in Figure 5f. FCN@F-1 maintains a high relative current ratio of 90.7 % after 12 h, while

commercial Pt/C only sustains 65 % of current density after 6 h. This phenomenon reveals that FCN@F-1 has superior ORR stability. The cyclic voltammetry test for the durability of FCN@F-1 is also conducted in the inset. The half-wave potential only has a decay of 10 mV, and the limiting current density only shows a decrease of 0.5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> after 2000 cycles. This superior stability is ascribed to the continuous four-electron transport pathway in the three-dimensional chrysanthemum-like carbon, which can promote the transport of electrolyte ions, oxygen, and water. As shown in Figure S16, the methanol tolerance of catalysts is also measured. When 9 mL methanol is injected into the electrolyte at 100 s, FCN@F-1 can maintain a relatively steady current density, while commercial Pt/C has a sharp jump in the current density. This appearance seals that FCN@F-1 shows excellent methanol tolerance towards ORR in alkaline solution. As mentioned above, FCN@F-1 with Fe, N-doped chrysanthemum-like carbon spheres can facilitate more active sites to expose to O<sub>2</sub> molecular and provide large exposed surface area and high electrical conductivity to ensure satisfactory transport of electron, which can offer a practical and stable route to oxygen reduction reaction.

To explore the effect of Fe-related species on ORR performance, two control experiments are conducted. (1) The FCN@F-1 is leached in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> at 60 °C for 12 h to remove or substantially reduce iron-related species. The XRD pattern in Figure S17a indicates that almost no iron-related species are found after the acid leaching. As a result, the acid-leached FCN@F-1 shows much lower ORR activity (a much negatively shifted half-wave potential at 0.81 V) than the original FCN@F-1 (Figure S17b), which manifests that iron-related species are essential to improve ORR activity in FCN@F-1. (2) As is well known that SCN<sup>-</sup> can poison Fe-N<sub>x</sub> sites in the ORR process. [47] The ORR activity of FCN@F-1 are also measured in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH containing KSCN. As shown in Figure S18, it can be seen that the half-wave potential and current density of FCN@F-1 decreases significantly after the addition of KSCN. The decreased ORR activity can be ascribed to the blocking of Fe-N<sub>x</sub> active sites by SCN<sup>-</sup> during the ORR process. Therefore, these experiments verify that the iron-related species are necessary for the high ORR performance. Based on the morphology and component

analysis, the excellent ORR activity and stability of FCN@F-1 can be attributed to the following aspects: (1) The ferrocene-induced Fe, N-doped chrysanthemum-like carbon microspheres with the large specific surface area and high electrical conductivity. (2) The excellent synergistic effect of Fe<sub>3</sub>C and Fe-N<sub>x</sub> sites will favor the adsorption of oxygen. [27] (3) The synergistic effect between high active graphitic N, pyridinic N and Fe-N<sub>x</sub>.

Given the preceding excellent ORR performance, FCN@F-1 can be used as an air electrode in a two-electrode primary Zn-air battery. Herein, a primary Zn-air battery with FCN@F-1 as the cathode catalytic material, a Zn plate as the anode, and 6 M KOH (containing 0.2 M zinc acetate) solution as the electrolyte is assembled (Figure 6a). The primary Zn-air battery using FCN@F-1 as the air electrode exhibits a high open-circuit potential of ~ 1.48 V (Figure S16), demonstrating an excellent catalytic performance of FCN@F-1. From the discharge polarization curve and corresponding power density plot in Figure 6b, the FCN@F-1-based Zn-air battery shows a higher current density of 271 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a better peak power density of 132 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> than the Pt/C-based device (a current density of 221 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> <sup>2</sup> and a peak power density of 104 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). [48,49] Figure 6c further illustrates the specific capacity of FCN@F-1 catalyzed Zn-air battery at two different current densities. When normalized to the mass of consumed Zn plate, the specific capacities of FCN@F-1-based device are 697 mA h g<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup> and 604 mA h g<sub>Zn</sub><sup>-1</sup> at the current densities of 2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which convert to 85% and 73.7%, respectively, utilization of a calculated theoretical capacity (820 mA h  $g_{Zn}^{-1}$ ). Figure 6d also shows the related discharge stability of Zn-air battery at different current densities. The Zn-air battery assembled by FCN@F-1 air cathode exhibits stable discharge platforms of 1.33 V and 1.23 V at the current densities of 2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, indicating the excellent discharge performance of Zn-air battery. As shown in Figure 6e, two liquid Zn-air cells connected in series are capable of powering a green light-emitting diode (LED, ~ 2.9 V) and shining a brilliant green light. The above results demonstrate that the FCN@F-1 catalyst with an excellent catalytic performance can be well applied to the high-efficient Zn-air battery.

#### 3. Conclusion

Herein, we have prepared Fe, N-doped chrysanthemum-like carbon microspheres as a non-precious metal catalyst towards oxygen reduction reaction. Specifically, ferrocene-induced FCN@F-1 with the novel 3D architecture, moderate Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles, high-active graphitic N, pyridine N, and Fe-N<sub>x</sub> species, exhibits the excellent electrochemical activity towards ORR (E<sub>onset</sub> = 1.03 V, E<sub>1/2</sub> = 0.87 V), which also surpasses commercial Pt/C. Besides, the Fe precursors such as ferrocene, ferric chloride, ferric nitrate have a considerable effect on the morphology and catalytic activity of materials, which also confirms the superiority of the unique structure induced by ferrocene. And the novel structure of FCN@F-1 offers adequate electron transfer to realize an efficient four-electron process for ORR. Besides, FCN@F-1 represents the excellent stability and methanol tolerance in alkaline solution. When FCN@F-1 is applied as an air cathode, the primary Zn-air battery possesses a high peak power density of 132 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and stable discharge platforms at various current densities. In summary, this work provides a facile method to introduce ferrocene to induce synthesizing Fe, N-doped flower-like carbon microspheres for ORR, which also paves a thought to the structure design of materials in the future research fields.

## 4. Experimental Section

## 4.1 Synthesis of catalyst

IRMOF-3 was synthesized by the previously reported method with slight modification. Briefly, 3.584 g zinc nitrate and 0.725 g  $C_8H_7NO_4$  were dissolved into 70 mL of N-N dimethylformamide. The mixture underwent solvothermal treatment at 105 °C for 20 h. Then, the brown product was collected by centrifugation. Next, we used the liquid impregnation method with ferrocene to synthesize the precursors of FCN@F-n (n represents the amounts of ferrocene). Specifically, 1 mmol ferrocene (0.5 mmol for FCN@F-0.5 and 1.5 mmol for FCN@F-1.5) was dispersed in 30 mL methanol, followed by 513 mg of as-prepared IRMOF-3 under vigorous stirring at ambient temperature for 12 h. Then, the solvents were slowly evaporated under stirring at 60 °C. Finally, the resulting powder was annealed at 900 °C (5 °C min<sup>-1</sup>) for 2 h with the Ar atmosphere. For comparison, the IRMOF-3 was pyrolyzed under the same condition, which was denoted as NC. The preparation process of

FCN@Cl-1 or FCN@N-1 was similar to that of FCN@F-1, except that iron nitrate or iron chloride replaced ferrocene. The preparation process of Fc@IRMOF-3-C was similar to that of Fc@IRMOF-3, except that the centrifugation replaced the solvent evaporation. The Fc@MeOH was synthesized by following similar procedures of Fc@IRMOF-3, unless there is no the addition of IRMOF-3.

#### 4.2 Material Characterizations

X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis was performed on the Haoyuan CX-2700 powder X-ray diffractometer. The corresponding morphology of materials was explored by field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM, Hitachi, S4800) and transmission electron microscopy (FEI Tecnai G2 F20). Raman spectroscopy measurements were collected by the Raman microscope (LabRAM, Horiba, France) at the laser wavelength of 532 nm. The Diffuse reflectance infrared spectroscopy was recorded on NICOLET 6700 FTIR spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher U.S.A.). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed using a multifunctional imaging electron spectrometer (Thermo ESCALAB 250XI). All XPS spectra were corrected by using XPSPEAK software. Using the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) formulations and Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) method can calculate the specific surface area and the pore-size distribution of the as-prepared catalysts from the N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherms collected on Automated Surface Area instrument (Quadrasorb Nava 4000). Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-AES, Boston, USA) was used to measure the content of Fe element.

#### 4.3 Electrochemical Analysis

For the preparation of homogeneous catalyst ink, 4 mg of materials were dispersed in the mixture solvent (375  $\mu$ L of isopropyl alcohol, 125  $\mu$ L of deionized water, and 20  $\mu$ L Nafion solution (5%)), and ultrasonicated for 15 min. Alumina powder and distilled water was used to polish the rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE, with an area of 0.196 cm<sup>2</sup>) to a smooth mirror mechanically. Then, the 6  $\mu$ L of catalyst ink was coated on the cleaned RDE (the catalyst loading of 240  $\mu$ g cm<sup>-2</sup>), and the electrode was dried under atmospheric conditions. The ORR performance of all materials was tested by using Autolab PGSTAT 128 N potentiostat/galvanostat (Metrohm, Switzerland) with a typical three-electrode system. The ORR performance of all samples was measured in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH aqueous electrolyte at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. All potentials against the Hg/HgO electrode in the ORR tests were calibrated to the one against RHE according to the equation  $E_{RHE} = E_{Hg/HgO} + 0.098 V + 0.0591 \times pH$ . Besides, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>%) and the electron transfer number (n) of all materials were calculated as follows: [51]

$$H_2O_2\% = 200 \times J_R/N/(J_R/N + J_D)$$
 (1)

$$n = 4 \times J_D / (J_R / N + J_D)$$
 (2)

Where J<sub>D</sub> is the disk current, and J<sub>R</sub> is the ring current, respectively. N represents the current collection efficiency of the Pt ring. The N value is determined to be 0.241 in 0.1 M KOH (with 10 mM potassium ferricyanide). The recycling performance was evaluated by the chronoamperometric measurement at -0.267 V vs. Hg/HgO for 12 h. Methanol tolerance was assessed by adding 9mL methanol into 0.1 M KOH electrolyte. There was no IR compensation in the electrochemical performance tests. In the fabricated process of Zn-air battery, a cleaned Zinc foil was used as the anode, the catalyst was coated on the carbon paper with a mass loading of 1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> as the cathode, and 6 M KOH with 0.2 M zinc acetate was served as the electrolyte. All measurements of Zn-air battery were conducted on Autolab potentiostat/galvanostat (PGSTAT 128 N, Metrohm, Switzerland) at room temperature.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by National Nature Science Foundation of China (No. 21777108), and Sichuan Science and Technology Program (No. 2019YFG0218).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** ferrocene-induced • chrysanthemum-like microspheres • Fe, N-doped carbon • oxygen reduction reaction • Zn-air battery

- [1] L. Liu, G. Zeng, J. Chen, L. Bi, L. Dai, Z. Wen, Nano Energy 2018, 49, 393.
- [2] B. Weng, C. R. Grice, W. Meng, L. Guan, F. Xu, Y. Yu, C. Wang, D. Zhao, Y. Yan, ACS Energy Lett. 2018, 3, 1434.
- [3] Y. Wang, F. Yu, M. Zhu, C. Ma, D. Zhao, C. Wang, A. Zhou, B. Dai, J. Ji, X. Guo, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 2011.
- [4] J. Wei, Y. Hu, Y. Liang, B. Kong, J. Zhang, J. Song, Q. Bao, G. P. Simon, S. Jiang, H. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2015, 25, 5768.
- [5] J. Jung, H. Jeong, J. Lee, M. G. Kim, J. Cho, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 2014, 53, 4582.
- [6] Q. Du, J. Wu, H. Yang, ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 144.
- [7] X. Sun, D. Li, Y. Ding, W. Zhu, S. Guo, Z. Wang, S. Sun, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 5745.
- [8] M. Wang, C. Ye, M. Wang, T. Li, Y. Yu, S. Bao, Energy Storage Mater. 2018, 11, 112.
- [9] S. J. Rowley-Neale, J. M. Fearn, D. A. C. Brownson, G. C. Smith, X. Ji, C. E. Banks, Nanoscale 2016, 8, 14767.
- [10] I. S. Amiinu, Z. Pu, X. Liu, K. A. Owusu, H. G. R. Monestel, F. O. Boakye, H. Zhang, S. Mu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 27, 1702300.
- [11] S. H. Ahn, X. Yu, A. Manthiram, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1606534.
- [12] R. Wang, X. Dong, J. Du, J. Zhao, S. Zang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1703711.
- [13] L. Wei, H. E. Karahan, S. Zhai, H. Liu, X. Chen, Z. Zhou, Y. Lei, Z. Liu, Y. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1701410.
- [14] Z. Wu, S. Yang, Y. Sun, K. Parvez, X. Feng, K. Müllen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 9082.
- [15] L. Ma, S. Chen, Z. Pei, Y. Huang, G. Liang, F. Mo, Q. Yang, J. Su, Y. Gao, J. A. Zapien, C. Zhi, ACS Nano 2018, 12, 1949.
- [16] S. Yang, L. Zhi, K. Tang, X. Feng, J. Maier, K. Müllen, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2012, 22, 3634.
- [17] J. Li, S. Ghoshal, W. Liang, M. T. Sougrati, F. Jaouen, B. Halevi, S. Mckinney, G. Mccool, C. Ma, X. Yuan, Z. F. Ma, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 2418.
- [18] Q. Zhu, W. Xia, L. Zheng, R. Zou, Z. Liu, Q. Xu, ACS Energy Lett. 2017, 2, 504.
- [19] S. Wang, X. Yan, K. Wu, X. Chen, H. Cheng, J. Liang, S. Dou, Carbon 2019, 144, 798.
- [20] J. Zhou, Y. Dou, A. Zhou, R. Guo, M. Zhao, J. Li, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1602643.
- [21] D. R. Van-Staveren, N. Metzler-Nolte, Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 5931.

- [22] M. Eddaoudi, J. Kim, N. Rosi, D. Vodak, J. Wachter, M. Keeffe, O. M. Yaghi, Science 2002, 295, 469.
- [23] G. Riveros, S. Meneses, S. Escobar, C. Garin, B. Chornik, J. Chil. Chem. Soc. 2010, 55, 61.
- [24] F. Qi, X. Wang, B. Zheng, Y. Chen, B. Yu, J. Zhou, J. He, P. Li, W. Zhang, Y. Li, Electrochim. Acta. 2017, 224, 593.
- [25] S. Xiong, J. Chen, X. Lou, H. Zeng, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2012, 22, 861.
- [26] H. Sun, H. Su, X. Ma, P. Zhang, X. Zhang, X. Dai, J. Gao, C. Chen, S. Sun, *Electrochim. Acta.* 2016, 205, 53.
- [27] W. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. Wang, J. Hu, Z. Wei, L. Wan, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 3570.
- [28] J. Sanetuntikul, S. Hyun, P. Ganesan, S. Shanmugam, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 24078.
- [29] T. Ouyang, Y. Q. Ye, C. Y. Wu, K. Xiao, Z. Q. Liu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 4923.
- [30] S. T. Senthilkumar, S. O. Park, J. Kim, S. M. Hwang, S. K. Kwak, Y. Kim, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5, 14174.
- [31] J. Kibsgaard, C. Tsai, K. Chan, J. D. Benck, J. K. Nørskov, F. Abild-Pedersen, T. F. Jaramillo, Energy Environ. Sci. 2015, 8, 3022.
- [32] J. Yang, J. Hu, M. Weng, R. Tan, L. Tian, J. Yang, J. Amine, J. Zheng, H. Chen, F. Pan, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 4587.
- [33] M. Xiao, J. Zhu, L. Feng, C. Liu, W. Xing, Adv. Mater. 2015, 27, 2521.
- [34] W. Gu, L. Hu, J. Li, E. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 14364.
- [35] Z. Chen, D. He, X. Xu, Z. Liu, M. Huang, X. Wang, H. Jiang, RSC Adv. 2016, 6, 34159.
- [36] H. Su, X. T. Wang, J. X. Hu, T. Ouyang, K. Xiao, Z. Q. Liu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 22307.
- [37] R. Arrigo, M. Hävecker, R. Schlögl, D. Su. Chem. Commun. 2008, 4891.
- [38] S. Kundu, T. C. Nagaiah, W. Xia, Y. Wang, S. V. Dommele, J. H. Bitter, M. Santa, G. Grundmeier, M. Bron, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 14302.
- [39] X. Xiang, X. Li, Z. Huang, T. Gao, H. Yuan, D. Xiao, ChemElectroChem 2019, 6, 1078.
- [40] W. Niu, L. Li, J. Liu, N. Wang, W. Li, Z. Tang, W. Zhou, S. Chen, Small 2016, 12, 1900.
- [41] Y. Liu, X. Xu, P. Sun, T. Chen, Int. J. Hydrogen Energ. 2015, 40, 4531.
- [42] T. Gao, C. Zhou, Y. Zhang, Z. Jin, H. Yuan, D. Xiao, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 21577.
- [43] B. Guan, L. Yu, X. Lou, Adv. Sci. 2017, 4, 1700247.
- [44] J. Y. Wang, W. T. Liu, X. P. Li, T. Ouyang, Z. Q. Liu, Chem. Comm. 2020, 56, 1489.
- [45] Z. Wen, S. Ci, F. Zhang, X. Feng, S. Cui, S. Mao, S. Luo, Z. He, J. Chen, Adv. Mater. 2012, 24, 1399.
- [46] Q. Li, T. Wang, D. Havas, H. Zhang, P. Xu, J. Han, J. Cho, G. Wu, Adv. Sci. 2016, 3, 1600140.
- [47] M. S.Thorum, J. M. Hankett, A. A. Gewirth, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2011, 2, 295.
- [48] X. T. Wang, T. Ouyang, L. Wang, J. H. Zhong, T. Y. Ma, Z. Q. Liu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 13291.
- [49] X. T. Wang, T. Ouyang, L. Wang, J. H. Zhong, Z. Q. Liu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 6492.
- [50] D. Li, H. Wang, X. Zhang, H. Sun, X. Dai, Y. Yang, L. Ran, X. Li, X. Ma, D. Gao, Cryst. Growth Des. 2014, 14, 5856.
- [51] Y. Liang, H. Wang, P. Diao, W. Chang, G. Hong, Y. Li, M. Gong, L. Xie, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Z. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134,

# **Figure captions**

**Figure 2** a) SEM image of Fc@IRMOF-3 precursor. b) SEM image of FCN@F-1. c) Magnified SEM

**Figure 3** a) XRD patterns of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, and FCN@F-1.5. b) Raman spectra of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, and FCN@F-1.5. c) N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherms of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, and FCN@F-1.5. d) Pore size distribution of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1 and FCN@F-1.5.

**Figure 4** a) XPS survey spectrum of FCN@F-1. b) C 1s spectrum of FCN@F-1. c) N 1s spectra of FCN@F-n materials. d) Fe 2p spectra of FCN@F-1.

**Figure 5** a) CV curves of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, and FCN@F-1.5 in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH. b) LSV curves of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, FCN@F-1.5, and Pt/C in 0.1 M KOH at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. c) Comparison of the corresponding onset potentials and half-wave potentials measured on NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, FCN@F-1.5, and Pt/C. d) Electron transfer number plots and H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield plots for NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, FCN@F-1.5, and Pt/C. e) Tafel plots of NC, FCN@F-0.5, FCN@F-1, FCN@F-1.5, and Pt/C. f) Chronoamperometric curves of FCN@F-1 and Pt/C at +0.60 V (vs RHE) in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. The inset shows the potential cycling test of FCN@F-1.

**ARTICLE**

**Figure 6** a) Basic configuration and the internal ORR process of Zn-air battery including the FCN@F-1. b) Polarization and power density curves of primary Zn-air batteries at a scan rate of 10 mV s-<sup>1</sup> . c) Specific capacities of primary Zn-air battery assembled by the FCN@F-1. d) Discharging stability of the primary Zn-air batteries at various current densities (2 and 20 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> ). e) Digital images of LEDs (≈ 2.9 V) after being powered by two Zn -air batteries (catalyzed by FCN@F-1) in series.

# **Entry for the Table of Contents**

4CCCC

A novel 3D architecture with self-assembled Fe, N-doped chrysanthemum-like carbon microsphere has been firstly synthesized by the induction of ferrocene and the subsequent pyrolysis. Due to the structure-activity relationship of the unique structure as well as the synergistic effects of graphitic N, pyridinic N, and iron-related sites, the FCN@F-1 catalyst exhibits excellent electrochemical performance ( $E_{onset}$ = 1.03 V,  $E_{1/2}$  = 0.87 V), which also offers the potential to be the candidate for Zn-air battery.