---
source: Yang 等 - 2025 - Modulating Electronic Spin State of Perovskite Fluoride by Ni─F─Mn Bond Activating the Dynamic Site.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 17.894s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:52:26.946158Z
---

# **Modulating Electronic Spin State of Perovskite Fluoride by Ni**─**F**─**Mn Bond Activating the Dynamic Site of Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Shuang Yang, Jiaqin Chen, Rong Li, Xin Wang, Zemin Sun,\* Liu Lin,\* and Wenbo Yue\**

**Establishing the relationship between catalytic performance and material structure is crucial for developing design principles for highly active catalysts. Herein, a type of perovskite fluoride, NH4MnF3, which owns strong-field coordination including fluorine and ammonia, is in situ grown on carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and used as a model structure to study and improve the intrinsic catalytic activity through heteroatom doping strategies. This approach optimizes spin-dependent orbital interactions to alter the charge transfer between the catalyst and reactants. As a result, the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activity of NH4MnF3 on CNTs is significantly enhanced by partial substitution of Mn sites with Ni, such as a half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.86 V and a limiting current density of 5.26 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which are comparable to those of the commercial Pt/C catalysts. Experimental and theoretical calculations reveal that the introduction of Ni promotes lattice distortion, adjusts the electronic states of the active Mn centers, facilitates the transition from lowspin to intermediate-spin states, and shifts the** *d***-band center closer to the Fermi level. This study establishes a novel approach for designing high-performance perovskite-based fluoride electrocatalysts by modulating spin states.**

#### **1. Introduction**

Fuel cells and metal-air batteries are deemed as potential power sources for electric vehicles due to their high efficiency and zero-emission of unfavorable greenhouse gas.[\[1,2\]](#page-7-0) The ORR kinetics is one of the critical reactions in fuel cells and metal-air batteries, and its slow kinetics are impeded by the multi-step

S. Yang, J. Chen, Z. Sun, L. Lin, W. Yue

Beijing Key Laboratory of Energy Conversion and Storage Materials

College of Chemistry

Beijing Normal University Beijing 100875, P. R. China

E-mail: [wbyue@bnu.edu.cn](mailto:wbyue@bnu.edu.cn) R. Li, X. Wang, Z. Sun, L. Lin

Center for Advanced Materials Research

Department of Chemistry Faculty of Arts and Sciences

Experiment and Practice Innovation Education Center

Beijing Normal University Zhuhai 519087, China

E-mail: [zmsun@mail.bnu.edu.cn;](mailto:zmsun@mail.bnu.edu.cn) [linliu@mail.bnu.edu.cn](mailto:linliu@mail.bnu.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202408983>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202408983**

electron transfer pathways.[\[3–5\]](#page-7-0) Currently, the most widely used ORR catalysts are platinum-based materials, which exhibit high ORR activity and durability.[\[6–8\]](#page-7-0) However, platinum is expensive, scarce in reserves, and susceptible to CO poisoning in operational environments, which limits its large-scale application.[\[9–11\]](#page-7-0) From the perspectives of cost and sustainability, developing high-performance, low-cost ORR catalysts is a crucial direction for advancing fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[\[12–14\]](#page-7-0)

Perovskite fluorides are a type of perovskites with a chemical formula of ABX3, where the A-site is an alkali metal (K, Na, etc.), the B-site is a transition metal (Mn, Co, Ni, etc.) and the X is F anion.[\[15\]](#page-7-0) The idealized structure of perovskite fluorides (ABF3) is a cubic arrangement, where A cations are located at the corners of the cube, B cations are positioned at the body center, and fluoride anions are at the face centers.[\[16\]](#page-7-0) Compared to the widely used oxide perovskites, the strongly polarized

M-F bonds in perovskite fluorides would result in a stronger coordination field, which may enhance their electrochemical activity.[\[17\]](#page-7-0) However, research on perovskite fluorides in the field of oxygen catalysis is still limited. The Dai group has synthesized a series of high-entropy perovskite fluorides (HEPFs) by combining hydrothermal methods with mechanochemistry.[[18\]](#page-7-0) The study found that HEPFs exhibit excellent oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance due to their abundant active sites, low charge transfer resistance, and high mass transfer rates. Li et al. prepared KCoxFe1−xF3 nanoparticles by doping an appropriate amount of Fe into the B sites of KCoF3. [\[19,20\]](#page-7-0) The strong interactions between Co and Fe lead to a remarkable OER property and durability of KCo0.80Fe0.20F3 nanoparticles. Yao et al. synthesized a series of perovskite fluorides (NaCo1−2xFexNixF3) by simultaneously substituting Co with Fe and Ni.[\[21\]](#page-7-0) The results showed that dual doping produced high-valence Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup> ions as well as metal oxyhydroxides, which contribute to enhanced OER activity and stability. Despite some perovskite fluorides demonstrating excellent OER performance, research on the ORR performance of perovskite fluorides remains sparse.

In this work, NH4MnF3 nanoparticles are in situ synthesized on the cross-linked network of carbon nanotubes (NH4MnF3@CNT) and used as a model structure to study and

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis route for Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. SEM, TEM, and HRTEM images of b,d,f) NH4MnF3@CNT and c,e,g) Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT.

adjust its ORR activity. Introducing Ni atoms into NH4MnF3 effectively modulates the electronic state of Mn sites, optimizing their spin-electronic states and enhancing electrocatalytic activity. As a result, Ni-doped NH4MnF3@CNT (Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT) shows significantly improved ORR activity, such as an E1/2 value of 0.86 V and a limiting current density of 5.26 mA cm‒2, which is comparable to the commercial Pt/C catalyst. Moreover, Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT also demonstrated better ORR durability than Pt/C. After 5000 cycles, the E1/2 value of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT decreased by only 4 mV, whereas the E1/2 value of Pt/C dropped by 15 mV. This study provides both experimental and theoretical insights into the application of perovskite fluorides such as the ORR electrocatalysts.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

The synthesis process of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is shown in **Figure 1**a. The surface of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) is rich in oxygen-containing groups, which can serve as the nucleation sites of NH4MnF3. Accordingly, Mn2<sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions first adsorb on the surface of CNTs and then react with NH4F to form Ni-doped NH4MnF3 crystals (Ni-NH4MnF3) under solvothermal conditions. NH4MnF3@CNT and pure NH4MnF3 particles are prepared by a similar process, but without adding nickel source or CNTs. Since NH4F has poor solubility in DMF solvent, the nucleation and growth of NH4MnF3 nanoparticles on CNTs are controllable. Herein, the particle size of NH4MnF3 on CNTs is controlled in the range of 50–100 nm and the atom ratio of Mn/Ni is 0.28 for optimal performance.

The morphology and distribution of NH4MnF3 particles on CNTs were observed by SEM and TEM. SEM image (Figure S1, Supporting Information) shows that pure NH4MnF3 particles have a large particle size (200–300 nm), and some particles are connected together to form larger aggregates. On the contrary, NH4MnF3 particles grown on the cross-linked network of CNTs (Figure 1b) show smaller particle size (70–120 nm) and good dispersibility. After Ni doping, the particle size of NH4MnF3 becomes smaller (50–100 nm) (Figure 1c). The size distribution histograms (Figure S2, Supporting Information) show that the average particle size of Ni-NH4MnF3 on CNTs is ≈76.6 nm, slightly smaller than that of NH4MnF3 on CNTs (≈96.0 nm). This indicates that partial substitution of the B-site Mn with

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns of pure NH4MnF3, NH4MnF3@CNT, and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. b) Raman spectra of CNTs, NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. c) XPS survey spectrum of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. d) High-resolution Mn 2p spectra of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. e) High-resolution Ni 2p spectrum of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. f) EPR spectra of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT.

Ni can inhibit the growth of NH4MnF3 particles to some content, which facilitates full exposure of the active site. TEM image (Figure [1d\)](#page-1-0) further confirms that NH4MnF3 nanoparticles with a cubic morphology are in situ grown on the surface of CNTs. The introduction of CNTs not only improves the dispersion of NH4MnF3 nanoparticles, but also enhances the electron conductivity of NH4MnF3-based composite. Ni-NH4MnF3 nanoparticles are also highly dispersed in the 3D network of the cross-linked CNTs (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0), but the cubic morphology of Ni-NH4MnF3 is not obvious. The distance between the lattice fringes in the HRTEM image (Figure [1f\)](#page-1-0) is ≈0.302 nm, which is consistent with the *d*-spacing of the (110) plane of NH4MnF3 crystal. Moreover, the (002) lattice fringes of multi-walled CNTs with the interplanar spacing of 0.332 nm are also observed, indicating the in situ growth of NH4MnF3 crystals on CNTs. The interplanar spacing of the (110) plane of Ni-NH4MnF3 is ≈0.295 nm (Figure [1g\)](#page-1-0), slightly smaller than that of NH4MnF3. This is because the ionic radius of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.68 Å) is slightly smaller than that of Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.80 Å).[\[22,23\]](#page-7-0) Thus, the lattice spacing of NH4MnF3 slightly decreases after partial substitution of Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions with Ni2<sup>+</sup> ions.

STEM-EDX analysis was also performed to study the distribution of Ni-NH4MnF3 nanoparticles on CNTs. The HAADF-STEM image (Figure S3a, Supporting Information) shows that Ni-NH4MnF3 nanoparticles are dispersed on the cross-linked network of CNTs. More interestingly, there are many dark spots in the bright crystals, suggesting that Ni-NH4MnF3 crystals contain many pores. The EDX elemental mapping images (Figure S3b–f, Supporting Information) show the consistent distributions of Ni, Mn, F, and N elements, indicating the successful substitution of Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> with Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in NH4MnF3 crystals.

The structure and phase composition of samples were studied by XRD and Raman. The XRD patterns of NH4MnF3, NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (**Figure 2**a) show similar diffraction peaks, which are consistent with the standard patterns of the cubic NH4MnF3 crystal (JCPDS no. 83–0178). Moreover, the (002) peak of CNTs appears at ≈25.8° in the XRD pattern of NH4MnF3@CNT, illustrating the successful synthesis of NH4MnF3 nanoparticles on CNTs. Compared to the main XRD peaks of pure NH4MnF3 and NH4MnF3@CNT, the XRD peaks of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT exhibit a slightly positive shift. This also proves the partial substitution of Mn2<sup>+</sup> ions by Ni2<sup>+</sup> ions in NH4MnF3 crystals.[\[24\]](#page-7-0) Raman spectra of CNTs, NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (Figure 2b) show two prominent peaks at ≈1340 and 1586 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which are assigned to the D and G bands. The D band is related to sp3 carbon and represents the defects of carbon structure, while the G band is related to sp<sup>2</sup> carbon and represents the crystallinity of the sample or pristine arrangement of atoms.[\[25\]](#page-7-0) Therefore, the intensity ratio of *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> is usually used to evaluate the crystallinity or defects of carbon materials. The *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> value of CNTs is 1.193, smaller than those of NH4MnF3@CNT (*I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> = 1.245) and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (*I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> = 1.313), indicating that the growth of NH4MnF3 nanoparticles on CNTs leads to an increase of the surface defects of CNTs.

Detailed XPS analyses of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT were carried out to determine their chemical compositions and valence states. The XPS survey spectrum of

Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (Figure [2c\)](#page-2-0) shows the C 1s, O 1s, N 1s, Mn 2p, Ni 2p, and F 1s peaks, which originate from Ni-NH4MnF3 nanoparticles and carboxylated CNTs, respectively. To obtain more information about the Mn element, the high-resolution Mn 2p XPS spectra of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT are shown in Figure [2d.](#page-2-0) There are two peaks at 643.2 and 655.4 eV, corresponding to Mn 2p3/2 and Mn 2p1/2 peaks of NH4MnF3@CNT, respectively.[\[26,27\]](#page-7-0) In contrast, the Mn 2p3/2 and Mn 2p1/2 peaks of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT slightly shift to lower binding energies (643.0 and 655.2 eV). This can be attributed to the partial substitution of Mn with Ni in NH4MnF3 crystals, which reduces the field intensity of F to the electrons of Mn. The oxidation state of Mn can also be determined by the amplitude of Mn 3s peak splitting.[\[28,29\]](#page-7-0) The high-resolution Mn 3s XPS spectrum of NH4MnF3@CNT (Figure S4, Supporting Information) shows peak split (ΔE3s) of 6.3 eV, indicating that Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> is the main existing form of Mn in NH4MnF3. In contrast, the ΔE3s of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is 6.4 eV, slightly higher than that of NH4MnF3@CNT. Generally, the lower the ΔE3s value, the higher the average valence state of Mn. This means that the average valence state of Mn in Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is lower than that in NH4MnF3@CNT. As mentioned above, the introduction of Ni would reduce the attraction of F to the electrons of Mn, resulting in a decrease in the valence state of Mn. The presence of mixed valence states of Mn ions is beneficial to enhance the ORR activity of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT.[\[30,31\]](#page-7-0) The high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectrum of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (Figure [2e\)](#page-2-0) shows two peaks at 857.8 and 876.2 eV, corresponding to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, respectively.[\[32,33\]](#page-7-0) This further indicates that Ni2<sup>+</sup> ions are successfully introduced into the NH4MnF3 lattices. To investigate the impact of Ni introduction on the microscopic lattice distortion, EPR experiments were conducted. The EPR spectra (Figure [2f\)](#page-2-0) exhibit a distinct symmetric peak at *g* = 2.002.[\[34\]](#page-7-0) The EPR signal of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is stronger than that of NH4MnF3@CNT, indicating that the introduction of Ni atoms which have different atomic radii with Mn atoms would cause lattice distortion. This further suggests that Ni atoms have been successfully incorporated into the perovskite structure.

To assess the ORR activity of pure NH4MnF3, NH4MnF3@CNT, and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT, cyclic voltammetry (CV) tests were performed in a three-electrode system using a rotating disc electrode. CV curve of NH4MnF3@CNT (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0) shows a well-defined reduction peak at 0.68 V in O2-saturated electrolyte, while the reduction peak in N2-saturated electrolyte is negligible, illustrating the ORR activity of NH4MnF3@CNT. Moreover, the oxygen reduction peak of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (Figure [3b\)](#page-4-0) appears at 0.79 V, implying that Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT has better ORR activity. In contrast, the reduction peak voltage of pure NH4MnF3 is 0.55 V (Figure S5a, Supporting Information), lower than those of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. Subsequently, LSV curves of these three samples were recorded on a rotating disk electrode. The E1/2 value and limiting current density of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT are 0.86 V and 5.26 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0), much higher than those of NH4MnF3@CNT (0.74 V and 4.78 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). It is also confirmed that the ORR activity of NH4MnF3@CNT can be improved by Ni substitution. In contrast, the E1/2 value and limiting current density of pure NH4MnF3 (Figure S5b, Supporting Information) are only 0.55 V and 3.17 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. The ORR activity of the commercial Pt/C catalyst was also measured and compared with Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. The E1/2 value and limiting current density of Pt/C catalyst (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0) are 0.87 V and 5.32 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, similar to those of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT, displaying the competitiveness of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT as an ORR catalyst. The ORR performance of some recently reported perovskite oxides is also listed in Table S1 (Supporting Information) for comparison. Apparently, Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT demonstrated highly competitive ORR activity.

To gain insights into the reaction kinetics, RDE measurements were performed over a speed range of 625 to 2500 rpm. The current density of LSV curves increases with the increase in rotation rate because a high rotation rate can accelerate the diffusion of oxygen (Figure [3d,e\)](#page-4-0). According to the related K–L plots (Figure [3f,g\)](#page-4-0), the electron transfer number (n) of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is ≈4.3, slightly higher than that of NH4MnF3@CNT (*n* = 3.6–3.7). This indicates that the ORR reaction occurring on both NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is a four-electron transfer pathway. RRDE measurements were also carried out to monitor the electron transfer number and the yield of peroxide species (H2O2). The current of the disk electrode is one order of magnitude larger than that of the ring electrode (Figure [3h\)](#page-4-0), indicating that the ORR reaction occurs mainly through a four-electron process. In the potential range of 0.4–0.8 V, the electron transfer number calculated this way is 3.73–3.81 for NH4MnF3@CNT and 3.75–3.92 for Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT (Figure [3i\)](#page-4-0), which is consistent with the n value derived from the K–L equation. In addition, the H2O2 yield of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is 4.1–12.3%, slightly lower than that of NH4MnF3@CNT (7.0–13.5%). These results indicate a stronger tendency for four-electron transfers in the ORR reaction on Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT. The catalytic stability of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT was also investigated by performing 5000 CV cycling (Figure S6, Supporting Information). NH4MnF3@CNT undergoes a negative shift of 9 mV and a current loss of 2.39% after 5000 CV cycles. Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT exhibits better catalytic stability with a low current loss (1.96%) and the E1/2 drops only 4 mV after 5000 CV cycles. As a comparison, Pt/C catalyst and pure NH4MnF3 show 15 and 37 mV negative shifts of E1/2 respectively after the same long-term testing. These results show that selecting appropriate atom doping can effectively improve the intrinsic ORR activity and stability of perovskite fluorides, making them potential high-performance ORR catalysts.

To understand the impact of Ni doping on the ORR activity of NH4MnF3, first-principles calculations were conducted. The models of NH4MnF3 and Ni-NH4MnF3 were examined, as shown in **Figure 4**[a,b,](#page-5-0) respectively. The optimized structures reveal changes in bond lengths, such as Mn–F in Ni-NH4MnF3 (2.08 Å) being shorter than Mn–F in NH4MnF3 (2.11 Å). This indicates that the introduction of Ni causes slight lattice distortion and induces defect-related distortions, which is consistent with the results from XRD and EPR analyses. The electron density difference reveals the charge transfer process between Mn and F. The transferred charge is likely sourced from adjacent lattice fluorine. NH4MnF3 exhibits high symmetry (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0), whereas the introduction of Ni induces lattice strain to some extent, leading to reduced symmetry (Figure [4d\)](#page-5-0). Yellow regions indicate

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** CV curves of a) NH4MnF3@CNT and b) Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT in 0.1 m KOH solution. c) LSV curves of NH4MnF3@CNT, Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT, and Pt/C catalyst in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution. LSV curves of d) NH4MnF3@CNT and e) Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT at various rotation speeds. K–L plots of f) NH4MnF3@CNT and g) Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT at different potentials. h) Rotating ring-disk electrode voltammogram recorded with NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. i) The electron transfer number (n) and H2O2 yield of NH4MnF3@CNT and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT.

increased charge accumulation, while light blue regions denote charge depletion. It is observed that the presence of Mn─F─Ni bonds decreases the electronic symmetry of Mn, reduces its oxidation state, and enhances its electron-donating ability. Consequently, Mn can contribute more electrons, effectively improving the ORR catalytic activity.

Figure [4e,f](#page-5-0) displays the total density of states (DOS) and partial density of states (PDOS) for NH4MnF3 and Ni-NH4MnF3. The calculation results indicate that NH4MnF3 tends to stabilize in a low-spin state (LS), whereas the introduction of Ni enhances the spin state, stabilizing the system in an intermediatespin state (MS). This provides a strong foundation for optimizing the electrocatalytic activity of NH4MnF3 through Ni doping. Furthermore, compared to NH4MnF3, Ni-NH4MnF3 shows a significant decrease in the Fermi level, suggesting that Ni doping increases electronic activity. The presence of Ni also introduces defect states at the Fermi level, which facilitates rapid electron transfer and enhances intrinsic electrocatalytic activity. Analysis of the Mn PDOS further reveals that Ni effectively optimizes the electronic states of the Mn sites, leading to an upward shift in the d-band center of Mn, which promotes the rapid adsorption of oxygen species. We also calculated the free energy of adsorbed intermediates for the two models (Figure [4g,h\)](#page-5-0). Figure [4i](#page-5-0) illustrates a typical four-step ORR process, showing that the introduction of Ni significantly enhances the activity of Mn sites, accelerates ORR reaction kinetics, and improves reaction rates. The theoretical calculation further shows that by the introduction of Ni, the Ni─F─Mn bond bridge successfully induces the electron spin state at the Mn site, thus improving the catalytic activity of ORR.[\[35,36\]](#page-7-0)

To further investigate the effect of Ni substitution on the ORR performance of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT, two samples were prepared by using a lower and higher amount of Ni precursors and labeled as Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-2, respectively. The XRD patterns of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-2 (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-6-0) show similar diffraction peaks,

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** The perovskite structure schematic image for a) NH4MnF3 and b) Ni-NH4MnF3. Electronic density difference diagrams for c) NH4MnF3 and d) Ni-NH4MnF3. e) TDOS and f) PDOS for Mn diagrams of NH4MnF3 and Ni-NH4MnF3. The reaction coordinate diagrams of g) NH4MnF3 and h) Ni-NH4MnF3 for the ORR process. i) The Gibbs free-energy diagrams of the ORR process.

which can be indexed into the cubic structure of NH4MnF3 crystal. No other impurity peaks appear, indicating that adjusting the substitution amount of Ni within this range will not change the crystal structure of NH4MnF3. SEM images (Figure [5b,c\)](#page-6-0) also show similar particle size and morphology of NH4MnF3 nanoparticles dispersed within the cross-linked CNTs. Further increasing the Ni content and decreasing the Mn content would change the particle size and morphology of NH4MnF3 particles. Subsequently, the Ni and Mn compositions in samples were studied by XPS. In the high-resolution Mn 2p XPS spectra (Figure [5d\)](#page-6-0), the Mn 2p3/2 and Mn 2p1/2 peaks of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 appear at 643.1 and 655.3 eV respectively, while the Mn 2p3/2 and Mn 2p1/2 peaks of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-2 slightly shift to 643.0 and 655.2 eV. This slight difference may be due to the different contents of Ni, which changes the attraction of F to the electrons of Mn. On the contrary, the positions of Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 peaks of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-2 in the high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra (Figure [5e\)](#page-6-0) are the same (857.8 and 876.2 eV). This may be caused by the low content of Ni introduction. Since the substitution of Mn by Ni has a significant impact on the ORR activity of NH4MnF3, the atom ratios of Ni/Mn in Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT, Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 and Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-2 were obtained based on XPS analysis and listed in Table S2 (Supporting Information). It is found that the atom ratio of Ni/Mn in Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT is 0.28, higher than those of Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 (0.20)

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. a) XRD patterns of Ni-NH₄MnF₃@CNT-1 and Ni-NH₄MnF₃@CNT-2. SEM images of b) Ni-NH₄MnF₃@CNT-1 and c) Ni-NH₄MnF₃@CNT-2. High-resolution d) Mn 2p and e) Ni 2p spectra of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-1 and Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2. f) LSV curves of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-1 and Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub> @CNT-2 in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution.

and Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2 (0.20). It is interesting to note that Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2 has a lower Ni/Mn ratio than Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT, but considering that XPS characterization can only reflect the material information on the surface of the sample, it cannot reflect the overall information of the sample. The ORR activity of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-1 and Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2 was also studied. LSV curves (Figure 5f) show that the  $E_{1/2}$  value and limiting current density are 0.78 V and 4.75 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-1 and 0.82 V and 4.99 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2, both lower than those of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT. It is obvious that the ORR performance of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT is highly correlated with the amount of Ni substitution on the sample surface. In other words, the selective substitution of Mn with Ni can adjust the electronic states of adjacent Mn sites, thereby boosting the ORR activity of NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>2</sub>.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles are in situ synthesized on CNTs and used as a model structure to study and boost the intrinsic catalytic activity by optimizing the spin state of active sites through heteroatom doping strategies. Compared to pristine NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub> particles on CNTs, partial substitution of Mn with Ni significantly improves the ORR activity of NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>, such as a half-wave potential of 0.86 V and a limiting current density of 5.26 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is comparable to commercial Pt/C catalysts. Experimental and theoretical calculations showed that the introduction of Ni promoted lattice distortion, facilitated the transition

from low-spin to intermediate-spin states, and made the d-band center closer to the Fermi level. This study provides experimental and theoretical guidance for understanding the relationship between spin and ORR activity.

#### 4. Experimental Section

Preparation of Pure NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub> and NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT: In the synthesis of NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT, 30 mg of CNTs was first dispersed in 50 mL of DMF under ultrasound treatment for 1h. 0.5 mmol Mn(acac), and 2.5 mmol NH<sub>4</sub>F were then added to the above solution under stirring for another 1 h. Subsequently, the solution was transferred into a 100 mL Teflonlined stainless steel autoclave, and kept at 180 °C for 1 h. After cooling down to room temperature, the precipitate was collected by centrifugation and washed with ethanol and deionized water. Finally, the product was placed in a vacuum oven at 60 °C overnight. The synthesis process of pure NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub> was very similar to that of NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT except that CNTs were not added.

Preparation of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT: In the synthesis of Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT, 0.45 mmol Mn(acac)<sub>2</sub>, 0.05 mmol Ni(acac)<sub>2</sub>, and 2.5 mmol NH<sub>4</sub>F were added in a 50 mL of DMF solution containing 30 mg CNTs under stirring for 1 h. Subsequently, the solution was transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave and kept at 180  $^{\circ}\text{C}$  for 1 h. Finally, the product was collected by centrifugation, washed with ethanol and deionized water, and dried in a vacuum oven at 60 °C overnight. For comparison, Ni-NH4MnF3@CNT-1 and Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2 were synthesized by a similar method. The added amounts of Mn(acac)2 and Ni(acac)2 were 0.475 mmol and 0.025 mmol for Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-1 and 0.425 mmol and 0.075 mmol for Ni-NH<sub>4</sub>MnF<sub>3</sub>@CNT-2.

Material Characterization: The detailed characterizations are supplied in the Supporting Information.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202408983 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Electrochemical Measurement*: All electrochemical measurements were conducted on a standard three-electrode CHI 760E electrochemical workstation with 0.1 m KOH as an electrolyte, saturated calomel electrode, and platinum wire served as the reference and counter electrodes. All details are provided in the Supporting Information.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the Beijing Natural Science Foundation (Z240025), the National Natural Science Foundations of China (Nos: 22309012, 22302013) and the NSF of Guangdong Province (2023A1515010554 and 2024A1515010307).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

carbon nanotube, NH4MnF3, Ni doping, oxygen reduction reaction, perovskite fluoride

> Received: October 1, 2024 Revised: January 8, 2025 Published online: January 23, 2025

- [1] F. Xiao, Y.-C. Wang, Z. P. Wu, G. Y. Chen, F. Yang, S. Q. Zhu, K. Siddharth, Z. J. Kong, A. L. Lu, J.-C. Li, J.-C. Zhong, Z. J. Zhou, M. H. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006292.
- [2] M. Li, X. X. Bi, R. Y. Wang, Y. B. Li, G. P. Jiang, L. Li, C. Zhong, Z. W. Chen, J. Lu, *Matter* **2020**, *2*, 32.
- [3] L. Lin, Y. M. Xu, Y. T. Han, R. K. Xu, T. Y. Wang, Z. M. Sun, Z. H. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 7363.
- [4] L. K. Luo, J. S. Xu, Q. H. Wan, Y. T. Han, M. X. Li, D. W. Cui, R. X. Chen, Z. R. Tang, X. J. Cui, X. Xin, X. C. Li, Y. L. Xiang, H. H. Dong, L. Lin, Z. M. Sun, G. B. Sun, *Chem Asian J* **2024**, *19*, 202300946.
- [5] T. L. Wang, A. Chutia, D. J. L. Brett, P. R. Shearing, G. J. He, G. L. Chai, I. P. Parkin, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 2639.
- [6] Z. M. Sun, L. Lin, M. W. Yuan, H. Y. Yao, Y. J. Deng, B. B. Huang, H. F. Li, G. B. Sun, J. Zhu, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *101*, 107563.
- [7] Y. D. Zhou, J. Y. Li, Q. J. Wu, N. Wang, L. X. Xing, L. G. Wang, L. Du, S. Y. Ye, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2312011.

- [8] Y. X. Gao, H. Liu, X. T. Wang, X. Liu, B. Shan, R. Chen, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2405748.
- [9] H. T. Chen, R. X. Chen, S. Liu, Y. H. Zhou, X. Y. Chen, J. J. Cai, X. Y. Lan, H. M. Jiang, L. Lin, Z. M. Sun, *ChemPlusChem* **2024**, *89*, 202400422.
- [10] W.-Z. Li, B.-A. Lu, L. Gan, N. Tian, P.-Y. Zhang, W. Yan, W.-X. Chen, Y.-H. Chen, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *Chinese J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, 2173.
- [11] M. J. Wu, Z. H. Meng, Y. F. Xiong, H. N. Zhang, A. J. Zhang, H. Zhang, L. Y. Zhu, H. B. Tang, T. Tian, H. L. Tang, *Small Sci* **2024**, *4*, 2400016.
- [12] J. Zhang, X. Y. Zhang, W. B. Yue, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater* **2022**, *5*, 11241.
- [13] H. H. Wu, X. Xu, J. J. Zhai, F. Wu, Y. D. Li, S. Jiang, J. W. Zhang, H. B. Li, Y. F. Gao, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2301327.
- [14] M. Liu, N. Li, S. F. Cao, X. M. Wang, X. Q. Lu, L. J. Kong, Y. H. Xu, X.-H. Bu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107421.
- [15] R. H. Mitchell, M. D. Welch, A. R. Chakmouradian, *Mineral. Mag.* **2017**, *81*, 411.
- [16] L. Lin, Z. M. Sun, H. T. Chen, L. Zhao, M. Y. Sun, Y. T. Yang, Z. S. Liao, X. Y. Wu, X. X. Li, C. Tang, *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2023**, *40*, 2305019.
- [17] S. G. Chandrappa, P. Moni, D. H. Chen, G. Karkera, K. R. Prakasha, R. A. Caruso, A. S. Prakash, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 13425.
- [18] T. Wang, H. Chen, Z. Z. Yang, J. Y. Liang, S. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 4550.
- [19] W. Li, A. Murisana, Q. Zhang, S. S. Wang, G. J. H. De, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2022**, *141*, 107363.
- [20] J. Zhang, Y. Yu, Z. B. Wang, Y. Xu, L. Q. Gui, B. B. He, L. Zhao, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2201916.
- [21] H. Yao, Y. N. Zheng, S. L. Yue, S. J. Hu, W. Y. Yuan, X. H. Guo, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2023**, *10*, 804.
- [22] N. J. Ali, J. Rahman, M. A. Chowdhury, *Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.* **2000**, *39*, 3378.
- [23] V. D. Shcherbakov, A. S. Nizamutdinov, *J. Lumin.* **2019**, *205*, 37.
- [24] T. Y. Wang, H. M. Jiang, C. Zhang, J. Li, R. K. Xu, F. Pan, R. X. Chen, C. X. Cai, S. Liu, Y. H. Zhou, X. Y. Chen, J. J. Cai, H. H. Dong, L. Liu, Z. M. Sun, L. Lin, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *72*, 201.
- [25] J. Zhang, X. Y. Zhang, W. B. Yue, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *456*, 141101.
- [26] D. Barreca, G. Carraro, E. Fois, A. Gasparotto, F. Gri, R. Seraglia, M. Wilken, A. Venzo, A. Devi, G. Tabacchi, C. Maccato, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2018**, *122*, 1367.
- [27] K. Rui, Z. Y. Wen, Y. Lu, C. Shen, J. Jin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 1819.
- [28] J. Zhao, Z. C. Cai, Y. Fan, Y. N. Wang, Y. Song, J. Liu, S. W. Li, D. Guo, X. X. Liu, *J. Mater. Sci. Techno.* **2023**, *158*, 111.
- [29] M. Fujiwara, T. Matsushita, S. Ikeda, *J Electron Spectrosc* **1995**, *74*, 201.
- [30] H. Tian, L. M. Zeng, Y. F. Huang, Z. H. Ma, G. Meng, L. M. Peng, C. Chen, X. Z. Cui, J. L. Shi, *Nano-Micro Let* **2020**, *12*, 161.
- [31] Y. Xiong, Y. Yang, X. R. Feng, F. J. DiSalvo, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 4412.
- [32] Q. Chang, Z. S. J. Luo, L. C. Fu, J. J. Zhu, W. L. Yang, D. Y. Li, L. P. Zhou, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *361*, 137051.
- [33] N. M. Shinde, P. V. Shinde, J. M. Yun, K. C. Gunturu, R. S. Mane, C. O'Dwyer, K. H. Kim, *ACS Omega* **2020**, *5*, 9768.
- [34] X. Z. Li, C. L. He, S. X. Zuo, X. Y. Yan, D. Dai, Y. Y. Zhang, C. Yao, *Sol. Energy* **2019**, *191*, 251.
- [35] Z. M. Sun, L. Lin, J. H. He, D. J. Ding, T. Y. Wang, J. Li, M. X. Li, Y. C. Liu, Y. Y. Li, M. W. Yuan, B. B. Huang, H. F. Li, G. B. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 8204.
- [36] L. Lin, R. Y. Xin, M. W. Yuan, T. Y. Wang, J. Li, Y. M. Xu, X. H. Xu, M. J. Li, Y. Du, J. N. Wang, S. Y. Wang, F. B. Jiang, W. X. Wu, C. C. Lu, B. B. Huang, Z. M. Sun, J. Liu, J. H. He, G. B. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 1431.