---
source: Yi 等 - 2024 - Local Single Co Sites at the Second Shell of Fe‐N4 Active Sites to Boost Oxygen Reduction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 20.697s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:54:12.341237Z
---

**[www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

# **Local Single Co Sites at the Second Shell of Fe-N4 Active Sites to Boost Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Xiaoyu Yi, Huijuan Yang,\* Xiaoxuan Yang, Xiaokang Li, Cheng Yan, Jianhua Zhang, Lina Chen,\* Jinjuan Dong, Jian Qin, Gaini Zhang, Jingjing Wang, Wenbin Li, Zhiyou Zhou, Gang Wu,\* and Xifei Li\**

**Fe single-atom catalysts (SACs) are a promising catalyst for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in both Zn–air batteries (ZABs) but have a certain distance to compete with Pt-based catalysts. Rational modulation of the coordination environment in the second coordination shell of SACs offers an opportunity to improve the intrinsic ORR activity, yet a challenge. Here, a novel strategy is reported to construct a dual-metal catalyst by introducing a single Co atom in the second coordination shell of the Fe center. The dual-metal N3**─**Fe**─**N**─**Co site with a certain Fe**─**Co distance of 0.312 nm is constructed. It allows for manipulation of the positive shift of the Fe center charge state, driving the** *d***-band center up-shift by 0.63 eV, thereby offering the optimal adsorption of intermediates. Benefiting from this structure, the as-prepared Fe(Co2nd)-NC enables an excellent ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.948 V in 0.1 M KOH. As a cathode in ZABs, it delivered an outstanding peak power density of 218 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a specific capacity of 915 mAh gZn<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, with superior long-term durability over 680 h. The second shell layer alignment regulation strategy shows great potential for energy storage applications.**

**1. Introduction**

Rechargeable Zn–air batteries (ZABs) and proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) are considered promising renewable next-generation energy storage systems but are limited by the sluggish kinetics of oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) in the cathode.[\[1–3\]](#page-7-0) Up to now, Pt-based materials have still served as the benchmark of ORR electrocatalysts.[\[4\]](#page-7-0) Considering their high cost and natural scarcity, massive efforts have been devoted to developing low-cost and earth-abundant alternatives as the ORR electrocatalysts during past decades.[\[5–8\]](#page-8-0) Among all, singleatomic-dispersed Fe-based catalysts (Fe-SACs) have been widely proven promising candidates due to their unique geometric and electronic structure, maximum atomutilization efficiency, and distinct oxygen adsorption behaviors.[\[9–11\]](#page-8-0) However, a considerable gap remains by comparing with start-of-the-art Pt-based materials due to the sub-optimal absorption/desorption for ORR intermediates on Fe-SACs. Therefore, promoting intrinsic activity of Fe-SACs active sites is highly desired yet challenging.

Modifying the local coordination structure of Fe-SACs active sites is an effective strategy to improve intrinsic activity. Significant efforts have mainly focused on modulating the first coordination shell for Fe center sites. Effective methods for this

modulation mainly include the introduction of the heteroatoms, such as S, P, O, Cl, etc., into the first coordination shell, as it could tune the *d*-band center of the Fe center sites to optimize the binding energy of intermediates. Introducing the electropositive P instead of electronegative N to form Fe─P species altered the electronic structure of the Fe center to enhance the ORR activity.[\[12,13\]](#page-8-0) Incorporating the S atom and combining the

X. Yi, H. Yang, X. Li, C. Yan, J. Zhang, J. Dong, J. Qin, G. Zhang, J. Wang, W. Li, X. Li

Institute of Advanced Electrochemical Energy

Shaanxi International Joint Research Centre of Surface Technology for Energy Storage Materials

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Xi'an University of Technology

Xi'an 710048, P. R. China

E-mail: [yhjxbsd2008@163.com;](mailto:yhjxbsd2008@163.com) [xfli2011@hotmail.com](mailto:xfli2011@hotmail.com)

X. Yang, G. Wu

Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering University at Buffalo

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202309728>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202309728**

The State University of New York Buffalo

Buffalo, NY 14260, USA E-mail: [gangwu@buffalo.edu](mailto:gangwu@buffalo.edu)

L. Chen, Z. Zhou

Institute of State Key Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials

College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering

Xiamen University

Xiamen 361005, P. R. China E-mail: [lina.chen@chem.ox.ac.uk](mailto:lina.chen@chem.ox.ac.uk)

L. Chen

Chemistry Research Laboratory Department of Chemistry University of Oxford Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3TA, UK

www.afm-journal.de

16163028, 2024, 9, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibitary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202399728 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

OH ligand to form the FeN<sub>3</sub>S-OH matrix enhanced the O<sub>2</sub> activation.[14,15] The axially bound Cl ligand on Fe-N<sub>4</sub> moiety accelerated 4e<sup>-</sup> pathway kinetics through near-optimal adsorption of the OH intermediates. [16] Another first coordination shell modulation is to employ another metal sites (e.g., Co, Ni, etc.) to construct dual-atom sites to synergistically promote the catalytic performance with Fe center sites, such as the construction of triangular Fe-Co-OH coordination to facilitate the O-O bond scission<sup>[17]</sup> or Fe-Co-N<sub>6</sub> matrix binding with the OH group spontaneously.[18] Although various Fe-SACs with first coordination shell modulation have been exploited. They are still suffering from insufficient tailoring effects. The modulation of the second coordination shell of Fe center sites has emerged to regulate the electronic structure of Fe-N<sub>4</sub> sites.<sup>[19]</sup> This modulation is beyond the limitation of Fe orbitals and with a valid short-range interaction, which could effectively increase the intrinsic activity of Fe-SACs. S doping in the second shell of the Fe-N₄ matrix engineered the charge on N atoms surrounding the Fe center for facilitating the rate-limiting reductive release \*OH desorption;<sup>[20]</sup> adjacent atomically dispersed Mn-N moieties effectively activate the Fe<sup>III</sup> sites by both spin-state transition and electronic modulation to render the excellent ORR performance.[21] Only a few researches reported on the modulation second coordination shell toward ORR performance due to the particular difficulty in controllable synthesis. [22-25] Therefore, the impact of the second coordination shell modulation on ORR performance remains vastly unexplored, let alone to further correlation of their structureproperty relationship.

In this work, we reported the construction of a dual-metal catalyst with a Co single atom coordinating in the second shell of the Fe center, denoted as Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC. The coordination structure of Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC was identified as Co directly coordinating N atom in the Fe-N<sub>4</sub> moiety to form the N<sub>3</sub>-Fe-N-Co active sites via the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and synchrotron-based Xray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), along with the density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Theoretical calculation results suggest that the Co coordination in the second shell altered the electronic structure of Fe center with a d-band center closer to Fermi energy than that of Fe-N<sub>4</sub>, achieving an optimal absorption of ORR intermediates. Thus, the as-prepared Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC allows a superior ORR performance with an ultra-high half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of 0.948 V in 0.1 M KOH media, respectively, as well as the long-term durability of only 10 mV negative shift in  $E_{1/2}$  after 10 000 cycles. When it was applied as a cathode in ZABs, it also delivered an outstanding discharge performance with a peak power density of 218 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and a specific capacity of 915 mAh  $g_{Zn}^{-1}$  at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, in addition to long-term durability with over 680 h operation.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of the Catalysts

As shown in **Figure 1a**, the synthesis of atomically dispersed  $Fe(Co_{2nd})$ -NC electrocatalyst was first to mix metal precursors  $(Zn(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O)$ ,  $Fe(acac)_3$  and  $Co(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O)$  with 2-methylimidazole in methanol at room temperature to enable the self-assembly process. The coexistences of  $Fe^{3+}$  and  $Co^{2+}$  ions

were trapped in zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIF), denoted as Fe-Co-Zn-ZIF precursor. The Fe-Co-Zn-ZIF precursor was calcined at 950 °C under an N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere. This pyrolysis process would evaporate the inner metallic zinc to form the CN support and accompany the reconstruction of Fe and Co single atoms to obtain the dual-metal Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC catalyst. Further experiments have been conducted to get more insight into the formation of Fe-Co atomic pairs. Changing the concentration of Co precursor with other precursors fixed constantly, we found that the content of Fe gradually increased with the Co content (Table S1, Supporting Information). Previous research reported that Fe(acac), was encapsulated within a ZIF-8 molecular fence, while the Co<sup>2+</sup> can replace Zn<sup>2+</sup> in coordination with 2mIm.[26,27] As such, we infer that with increasing the concentration of Co precursor, more Zn<sup>2+</sup> in ZIF-8 was replaced by Co<sup>2+</sup> to form a new structure, and it adsorbed more Fe(acac)3, enabling the confinement of the Co<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> in the microstructures of ZIF. Due to this proximity, Fe<sup>3+</sup> ions encapsulated near the Co<sup>2+</sup> center tend to form dual-atomic catalysts during the pyrolysis. The Fe-NC, Co-NC, and Fe/Co-NC with no correlation between Fe and Co were also prepared through a similar method as the control samples. Their metal loadings were determined by using the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) measurement. The as-obtained catalysts had similar metal contents among Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC, Fe-NC, and Co-NC (Table S, Supporting Information). In the Fe( $Co_{2nd}$ )-NC catalyst, the contents of Fe and Co are 0.65% and 0.34%, respectively. The complete carbonation of the as-prepared catalysts was verified by X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The appearance of typical carbon peaks at around 26° and 43° were attributed to (002) and (100)/(101) facets in graphite, respectively. No characteristic diffraction peaks of metallic crystalline Fe and/or Co were found among as-prepared catalysts. As shown in the Raman spectrum (Figure S2, Supporting Information), the intensity ratio between the D-band (defective carbon, ≈1352 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and G-band (graphite carbon,  $\approx$ 1591 cm<sup>-1</sup>) for Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC is 1.04, indicating that the abundant defect on  $Fe(Co_{2nd})$ -NC. $^{[28,29]}$  The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) results showed that Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC catalyst possesses a large surface area (784.148 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and more abundant hierarchical pores structure, which is beneficial for the contact between active sites and ORR-relevant species(Figure S3, Supporting Information).

Further tracing the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAAD-STEM), no metal nanoparticles were detected in  $Fe(Co_{2nd})$ -NC (Figure 1b,c), as well as the control catalysts of Fe-NC, Co-NC, Fe/Co-NC (Figures S4-S6, Supporting Information), signifying Fe or Co were atomically dispersed on the carbon skeleton containing N species (NC). The energy X-ray spectroscopic (EDS) elemental mapping analysis in HAADF-STEM manifests a homogenous distribution of C, N, Fe or/and Co in the catalysts of Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC, Fe-NC, Co-NC, and Fe/Co-NC (Figure 1d; Figures S4-S6, Supporting Information). To further precisely characterize the Fe and Co distribution in the Fe(Co<sub>2nd</sub>)-NC catalyst, atomic-resolution HAADF-STEM coupled with electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) at the atom level was employed, and the results are as shown in Figure 1e. Many bright dual-atom pairs randomly distributed on the surface of NC

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Microscopic characterizations. a) Illustration of the synthetic process of Fe(Co2nd)-NC. b,c) TEM of Fe(Co2nd)-NC. d) Corresponding STEM-EDS element mappings showing the distribution of Fe (yellow), Co (blue). e) HAADF-STEM image of the Fe(Co2nd)-NC, some of the bimetallic Fe/Co pairs are highlighted by yellow boxes. f) Statistical Fe─Co distance in the observed diatomic pairs, in which the two insets are intensity profiles obtained on two bimetallic Fe/Co pairs.

support can be observed, as marked with yellow squares. The EELS further reveals the coexistence of Fe and Co elements in this dual-atom pair (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Additionally, the space distance of Fe/Co dual-atom pairs of 0.312 ± 0.02 nm was confirmed by statistical analysis of more than 20 pairs (Figure 1f). The intensity profile (inset of Figure 1f) of the marked sites in Figure 1e indicates the co-existence of Fe─Co atomic pairs with a distance of 0.312 nm. To conduct statistical analysis of the Fe-Co atomic pairs in Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst, more than 100 atoms in HAADF-STEM images have been analyzed, and the dual-metal Fe─Co sites surpassed 45% in all bright single atoms (Figure S8).[\[30,31\]](#page-8-0) The coexistence of Fe and Co atoms in the form of Fe/Co atomic pairs with a particular space distance was observed in the Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Structure characterizations. a) Fe 2p XPS spectra of Fe(Co2nd)-NC and Fe-NC.b) Co 2p XPS spectra of Fe(Co2nd)-NC and Co-NC. c) Fe *K*-edge XANES curves of Fe foil, FePc, Fe2O3 and Fe(Co2nd)-NC. d) Fourier transformed EXAFS spectra at *R* space of Fe foil, FePc and Fe(Co2nd)-NC. e) Fe *K*-edge EXAFS spectrum fitting of Fe(Co2nd)-NC and (inset) optimized configuration for Fe (the orange, darker blue, blue, and gray spheres represent Fe, Co, N, and C). f) Wavelet transforms for the *k22*-weighted (*k*) *K* edge EXAFS signals of Fe foil, Fe Pc and Fe(Co2nd)-NC.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of Fe(Co2nd)-NC also demonstrates the coexistence of Fe, Co, N, C, and O elements (Figure S9, Supporting Information), in line with the EDS result. Carbon species in as-prepared catalysts can be deconvoluted into three types, including C─C (284.8 eV), C─N (286.5 eV), C─O (288.3 eV), and O═C─O (290.5 eV) (Figure S10, Supporting Information).[\[32,33\]](#page-8-0) The high-resolution N 1s XPS spectrum of as-prepared catalysts is fitted into pyridinic N (398.4 eV), metal-N (399.3 eV), pyrrolic N(400.5 eV), graphitic N (401.5 eV), and oxidized N (403.7 eV) (Figure S11, Supporting Information), which play a crucial role in anchoring single atoms.[\[34,35\]](#page-8-0) To verify the electronic state of Fe/Co dual atomic pairs, Fe 2p and Co 2p XPS spectra were presented in **Figures 2**a, and b, respectively. Regarding the Fe 2p XPS spectrum, the peaks located at 710.7 eV from 2p3/2 and 723.4 eV from 2p1/2 are assigned to Fe2<sup>+</sup>, while the peaks of 713.1 eV from 2p3/2 and 725.8 eV from 2p1/2 are attributed to Fe3<sup>+</sup> (Figure 2a; Table S3, Supporting Information).[\[34\]](#page-8-0) Notably, the Fe 2p XPS peaks shift toward a higher binding energy than the Fe-NC sample, and the ratio of the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> valence state is significantly increased, suggesting a higher oxidation of Fe sites in Fe(Co2nd)-NC than in Fe-NC. As for the Co 2p XPS spectrum, the main peak could be split into distinct peaks of Co3<sup>+</sup> 2p3/2 (780.8 eV), Co2<sup>+</sup> 2p3/2 (784.0 eV), Co3<sup>+</sup> 2p1/2 (795.7 eV), Co2<sup>+</sup> 2p1/2 (798.9 eV) and two satellite peak (Figure 2b; Table S4, Supporting Information).[\[36\]](#page-8-0) Comparing the ratio of Co2<sup>+</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> by calculating the peak areas (Table S4, Supporting Information), Fe(Co2nd)-NC endows a lower oxidation state for Co-sites than Co-NC. These results infer that the Fe/Co atomic pairs structure touches off electron transfer from Fe to N and then to Co sites in the Fe(Co2nd)-NC. The Fe/Co-NC catalyst, whereas the isolated single metal atoms, shows little changes in electron transfer (Figure S12 and Tables S3 and S4, Supporting Information).

To further distinguish the chemical structure and electronic state of Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst at the atomic level, X-ray absorption energy near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy were carried out, as shown in Figure 2. Fe *K*-edge XANES spectra of Fe(Co2nd)- NC show a similar absorption energy edge and the white line intensity with the reference of FePc (Figure 2c). The photoelectron excitation threshold energy (*E*0) is defined as the photon energy of the first prominent peak in d*μ*(*E*)/d*E*) to precisely evaluate the valence state of Fe sites.[\[37\]](#page-8-0) The *E*<sup>0</sup> value in Fe(Co2nd)- NC, FePc, and Fe2O3 is 7113.2, 7112.9, and 7113.6 eV (inset of Figure 2c), respectively, suggesting that Fe(Co2nd)-NC has a valence between Fe (II) and Fe(III) states.[\[38\]](#page-8-0) The valence state of the Fe site in Fe(Co2nd)-NC is higher than that of the FePc, which aligns with the XPS result and may be ascribed to the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** ORR performance assessment for the synthesized catalysts in 0.1 m KOH solution at 900 rpm. a) ORR polarization curves with a scanning rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. b) The summary of *J*<sup>k</sup> and *E*1/2. c) Comparison of *E*onset and *E*1/2 with high-performing catalysts reported recently. d) Tafel plots obtained from the RDE polarization curves. e) ORR polarization curves before and after 10,000 cycles.

modulation of Co atoms. The Fourier transform (FT) *k3-*weighted EXAFS (FT-EXAFS) spectroscopy of Fe(Co2nd)-NC shows the predominant peak at 1.44 Å, corresponding to the Fe─N or Fe─O (Figure [2d\)](#page-3-0). To fit EXAFS and *k* space curves of Fe(Co2nd)-NC in Figure [2e](#page-3-0) and Figure S13 (Supporting Information) reveals the coordination around the Fe center, and the results are shown in Table S5 (Supporting Information). The coordination number of Fe-N is 3.8 ± 0.5, disclosing that Fe─N4 is a dominant structure in Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst. In addition, wave transform (WT) EX-AFS analysis for Fe(Co2nd)-NC is similar to FePc with a single intensity maximum at ≈4.0 Å<sup>−</sup>1, further proving the first coordination shell of Fe-N4 in Fe(Co2nd)-NC (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). Moreover, the second shell coordination number of Fe center is 1.2 ± 0.2 with a bond distance of 3.11 ± 0.01 Å, demonstrating dual-metal centers in Fe(Co2nd)-NC, which is neither from the Fe alloy (2.84 Å) nor the Fe─N (1.99 Å). This result is well consistent with the HAADF-STEM. Hence, the Fe/Co atomic pairs in the Fe(Co2nd)- NC catalyst could be inferred with the structure of Fe─N─Co coordination with local Co coordination in the second shell of the Fe center. Based above results, different structural models were simulated by density functional theory (DFT) simulation (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The N3─Fe─N─Co sites possess the most proper inter-atomic distance of 3.12 Å and the ideal coordination environment among the six possible structures of different models.[\[30,31\]](#page-8-0) These calculated models were further employed to simulate the XANES spectra (Figure S15, Supporting Information), where the N3─Fe─N─Co site fits well with the experimental results. Considering the similarity of Fe and Co, we also conducted the simulation of the N3─Co─N─Fe site and excluded its contribution as its simulated XANES spectrum did not match the experimental result (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Overall, the dominant structure in Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst is

N3─Fe─N─Co, with local Co coordination in the second shell of the Fe─N4 center.

# **2.2. Oxygen Electrocatalytic Performance of Fe(Co2nd)-NC**

The ORR activity of the N3─Fe─N─Co active sites was evaluated in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution with rotating disk electrode measurement. We first evaluated the effect of Co content on the ORR activity of Fe(Cox)-NC catalysts by varying the Co ratio during the synthetic process (Figure S17, Supporting Information). The optimized ORR catalyst is with a Co content of 0.34%. In contrast, the ORR activity decreased with increasing the Co content. This is because instead of forming more dual-atomic active sites, the metal atoms tend to agglomerate into nanoparticles (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves of catalysts with a loading of 0.6 mg cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> are presented in Figure 3a. The Fe(Co2nd)- NC catalyst delivered the best ORR activity with a high half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.948 V. In addition, the as-prepared singleatom catalysts (Fe-NC, Co-NC, Fe/Co-NC, and Fe(Co2nd)-NC) display better ORR activity compared with NC material derived from ZIF-8, indicating the crucial role of isolated metal atoms in ORR process. Detailed *E*1/2 and kinetic current density (*J*k) of all catalysts derived from the LSV curves are summarized in Figure 3b. The Fe(Co2nd)-NC possesses the best activity with the uppermost *E*1/2, which is 55 mV higher than Pt/C (*E*1/2 = 0.893 V). Moreover, the *J*<sup>k</sup> of Fe(Co2nd)-NC is 19.70 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the potential of 0.90 V, which is over six-fold compared with that of commercial Pt/C (3.14 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Importantly, the *J*<sup>k</sup> of Fe(Co2nd)-NC is increased more than four times with that of Fe-NC, signifying that the intrinsic ORR activity of N3─Fe─N─Co active sites is remarkablely

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** DFT calculations. a) The atomic structure model of N3─Fe─N─Co. b) The charge density difference of N3─Fe─N─Co, Fe─N4, and Co─N4. c) Free energy paths of ORR on N3─Fe─N─Co and Fe─N4 at U = 0 V and U = 1.23 V. d) PDOS of Fe─N4. e) PDOS of N3─Fe─N─Co.

superior to Fe─N4 sites due to the introduction of Co coordination in the second shell of Fe center. Among those as-prepared single-atom catalysts, Fe(Co2nd)-NC also displays the best *E*1/2 and *J*k, outperforming the solely isolated Co sites in Co-NC and physically mixed Fe/Co-NC. In addition, the ORR activity of Fe(Co2nd)- NC outperforms most near-term reported non-precious metalbased ORR catalysts (Figure [3c;](#page-4-0) Figure S19 and Table S6, Supporting Information).[\[39–49\]](#page-8-0) Apart from the ORR activity, the ORR kinetics is further conducted by the Tafel plot and Koutecky–Levich (K–L) method. As shown in Figure [3d,](#page-4-0) the Tafel plot of Fe(Co2nd)- NC is 61.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, outperforming that of Pt/C (68.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), which suggests that a smaller energy barrier to form oxygen intermediates and faster kinetic rate on the Fe(Co2nd)-NC.[\[50,51\]](#page-8-0) K–L plot under different potentials illustrates a direct four-electron ORR pathway in Fe(Co2nd)-NC (Figure S20, Supporting Information). Electron transfer number (*n*) and H2O2 yield are also calculated to disclose the four-electron process(Figure S21, Supporting Information), in which Fe(Co2nd)-NC depicts a meager H2O2 yield (*<*3.5%) and the *n* value fluctuates from 3.97 to 4.00 in the potential range of 0.4–0.8 V. The long-term durability test is conducted with the potential cycling from 0.6 to 1.0 V. As shown in Figure [3e,](#page-4-0) only 10 mV loss of *E*1/2 is found in the Fe(Co2nd)-NC, whereas 25 mV in Fe-NC after 10 000 continuous cycles, which indicates a superior stability of Fe(Co2nd)-NC under alkaline solution. Fe(Co2nd)-NC also demonstrated decent ORR activity in the O2-saturated 0.1 m H2SO4 electrolyte by rotating the disk electrode. The performance trends of those catalysts in acidic electrolytes are consistent with those in alkaline solutions (Figure S22, Supporting Information). Fe(Co2nd)- NC exhibited remarkable ORR performance with the *E*1/2 of 0.846 V comparable to that of Pt/C (0.832 V), surpassing the as-prepared single-atom control catalysts (Fe-NC, Co-NC, Fe/Co-NC) in Figure S22a (Supporting Information). The *E*1/2 and mass activity of all catalysts derived from the LSV curves are summarized in Figure S22b (Supporting Information). Fe(Co2nd)-NC features an optimum activity comparable to that of Pt/C. Furthermore, the *J*<sup>k</sup> of Fe(Co2nd)-NC is 7.59 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at a potential of 0.83 V, which is ≈21 times higher than that of Fe-NC (0.35 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), demonstrating the improved intrinsic ORR activity of N3─Fe─N─Co active site in acid solution. In addition, a smaller Tafel slope of 68.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Fe(Co2nd)-NC compared with other samples in Figure S22c (Supporting Information) implies a faster reaction kinetics. Moreover, the performance of Fe(Co2nd)-NC as the cathode catalyst in PEMFC under H2─O2 was evaluated, and the maximum power densities of 0.92 and 0.69 W cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> were obtained under 2 and 1 bar, respectively (Figure S22d, Supporting Information). In addition to the ORR performance, Fe(Co2nd)-NC also showed a superior OER performance. As shown in Figure S23 (Supporting Information), the OER activities of these samples and commercial RuO2 electrodes are evaluated in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH. The Fe(Co2nd)- NC catalyst endowed a lower overpotential with 255 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a lower Tafel slope of 81 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is smaller than other control catalysts, indicating that Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst possesses a higher OER activity and a faster OER reaction kinetics.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Zn−air battery performance of the Fe(Co2nd)-NC as the cathode in comparison with the coupled noble metal 20% Pt/C + RuO2 as the cathode. a) Schematic illustration showing the structure of the ZAB. b) Discharging polarization curves and corresponding power densities of these catalysts. c) OCVs of the Fe(Co2nd)-NC cathode based batteries. d) Discharge curves of ZAB with Fe(Co2nd)-NC and Pt/C + IrO2 as the cathode catalysts under continuous discharge until complete consumption of Zn at a current density of 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. e) Long-term galvanostatic charge–discharge test of Fe(Co2nd)-NC -based ZAB at a current density of 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. f) Galvanostatic charge and discharge voltage comparison from the first to last cycle of (e). g) Photograph of an LED illumed by three all-solid-state Zn–air batteries in series.

## **2.3. Mechanism Insight of Fe(Co2nd)-NC**

To explore the underlying origin of superior catalytic ORR behaviors of Fe(Co2nd)-NC, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were conducted. The optimized N3─Fe─N─Co coordination as active sites in Fe(Co2nd)-NC are employed as the model configuration in **Figure 4**[a.](#page-5-0) The calculated difference charge densities for N3─Fe─N─Co, Fe─N4, and Co─N4 are shown in Figure [4b.](#page-5-0) The charge density on the N3─Fe─N─Co site in Fe(Co2nd)-NC was reconstructed. Bader charge analysis shows that more electrons of the Fe orbital were transferred to neighboring N orbital in N3─Fe─N─Co than in Fe─N4, thus forming a more positive charge distributed around the Fe center. The result is in line with the XPS and XANES results. Compared with Co─N4, fewer electrons were transferred to neighboring N orbital for N3─Fe─N─Co. The mechanism of reaction intermediates in the 4*e*- ORR pathway is further investigated to determine the impact of both geometric and electronic structure on ORR activity. Co─Nx moieties were proposed as the active sites for the ORR. Hence, we first compared the adsorptions of crucial intermediates OOH\* on the Fe and Co sites in N3─Fe─N─Co sites, respectively, as shown in Figure S24 (Supporting Information). We can see stronger adsorption for \*OOH on the Fe site (−1.740 eV) than on Co sites (−1.605 eV), indicating \*OOH is in favor of preferential adsorption on the Fe site.

Interestingly, for N3─Co─N─Fe sites, as shown in Figure S25 (Supporting Information), although the Co site in N3─Co─N─Fe exhibits higher adsorption energy of \*OOH than in traditional Co─N4, it is still lower than that of the Fe site in N3─Co─N─Fe. Therefore, Fe sites directly contributed to the ORR activity and were further employed to investigate the ORR mechanism. In the free energy diagram, three intermediates (i.e., OOH\*, O\*, and OH\*) were attached to the Fe sites in both N3─Fe─N─Co and Fe─N4 moieties models, respectively (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0). These three intermediates form according to the associative mechanism with

<span id="page-7-0"></span>the incremental addition of molecular water and electrons. All the free energy change (∆G) at U = 1.23 V is negative, demonstrating they are exothermic. The RDS reaction free energy of N3─Fe─N─Co in Fe(Co2nd)-NC is −0.8 eV, which is lower than that of the Fe─N4 sites in Fe─NC, implying that the overpotential of Fe(Co2nd)-NC (0.42 V) at equilibrium electrode potential is lower than that of Fe-NC (0.55 V) (Figure [4c;](#page-5-0) Table S7, Supporting Information).[\[52\]](#page-8-0) The lower RDS reaction free energy in Fe(Co2nd)-NC suggests the stronger OOH\* adsorption on Fe sites than in Fe-NC, contributing to the better ORR activity for Fe(Co2nd)-NC. In addition, the projected density of states (PDOS) also shows the difference in the binding properties. As shown in Figure [4d,e,](#page-5-0) the PDOS in Fe-NC is more down-shifted with a calculated *d*-band center (−1.61 eV) lower than that in Fe(Co2nd)-NC (−0.98 eV). According to the *d*-band center theory, a *d*-band center value closer to the Fermi energy level indicates fewer electrons populate the antibonding orbitals of active sites, thus enhancing the interaction between the activates and adsorbates to facilitate the subsequent substrate reactions.[\[53,54\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, we can deduce that introducing Co in the second shell of Fe─N4 sites can optimize the adsorption of oxygen species and further boost the ORR activity of Fe(Co2nd)-NC.

#### **2.4. Zn–air Batteries Application**

Encouraged by the superior activity and stability of ORR in half-cell characterization, the practical applications of Fe(Co2nd)- NC as an air cathode catalyst were carried out in homemade ZABs, as shown in **Figure 5**[a.](#page-6-0) The Fe(Co2nd)-NC-based ZAB exhibits a higher discharging voltage with a maximum power density of ≈218 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, outperforming the commercial Pt/C + RuO2 catalyst (110 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2). In addition, Fe(Co2nd)-NC-based ZAB displays a high open-circuit voltage of 1.547 V (Figure [5c\)](#page-6-0). The discharge specific capacity of Fe(Co2nd)-NC reaches 915 and 907 mA h g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with the current density of 5 and 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which is consistently higher than that of Pt/C + RuO2 catalyst (788 mA h g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure [5d\)](#page-6-0). Furthermore, Fe(Co2nd)-NC is employed to examine the galvanostatic discharge/charge cycling life of ZABs. As shown in Figure [5f,](#page-6-0) the long-term stability of Fe(Co2nd)-NC at a constant current density of 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> displays an insignificant voltage change after 680 h operation (2000 cycles), which is superior to the commercial catalysts. A small change in the gap between charging and discharging potential (from 0.9248 to 0.9642 V) after continuous 2000 cycles was observed, showing the great promise of Fe(Co2nd)-NC as the catalysts for ZABs. To our knowledge, the performance of Fe(Co2nd)-NC in ZABs suppresses most reported results for non-precious catalysts (Table S8, Supporting Information).[\[40,42,44,47,55,56\]](#page-8-0) Further connecting three ZABs could provide plentiful power for a light-emitting diode light emitting diode (LED) screen (Figure [5e\)](#page-6-0).

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we demonstrated the preparation of dual-metal N3─Fe─N─Co active sites with unique Co coordination in the second shell of the Fe center, showing much enhanced ORR activity in an alkaline medium. Theoretical studies indicated that the N3─Fe─N─Co active sites have optimized electronic structures, in which the up-shifted *d*-band center of Fe facilitates the adsorption of OOH\*, and thus lowers the RDS reaction free energy of ORR. The optimized Fe(Co2nd)-NC catalyst with abundant N3─Fe─N─Co active sites exhibits a remarkable intrinsic activity with an ultra-high ORR activity in 0.1 M KOH (*E*1/2 = 0.948) electrolyte. Integrating Fe(Co2nd)-NC-catalyst in ZABs delivers a maximum power density of 218 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and specific capacity of 915 mAh gZn<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, with long-term stability over 680 h operation (2000 cycles) at 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. This result demonstrates the promising second coordination shell modulation strategy toward ORR performance, leading to a broad exploration of the novel coordination structure on SACs for advanced electrocatalysis.[\[57,58\]](#page-8-0)

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

X.Y. and H.Y. contributed equally to this work. The work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21902125); the Young Talent Fund of University Association for Science and Technology in Xi'an City of China (095920221359); the Young Talent Fund of the University Association for Science and Technology in Shaanxi province of China (20220603); the Science and Technology Plan Project in Xi'an city of China (23GXFW0056); the Key Research and Development Plan of Shaanxi province of China (2023-GHYB-01).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

dual-metal catalyst, Fe single atoms, oxygen reduction reaction, second shell coordination, Zinc–air batteries

> Received: August 15, 2023 Revised: October 27, 2023 Published online: December 8, 2023

<sup>[1]</sup> X. X. Wang, X. Yang, H. Liu, T. Han, J. Hu, H. Li, G. Wu, *Small Struct.* **2022**, *3*, 2100103.

<sup>[2]</sup> Y. He, G. Wu, *Acc. Mater. Res.* **2022**, *3*, 224.

<sup>[3]</sup> J. Shan, C. Ye, Y. Jiang, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabo0762.

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>[4] Y. Zeng, J. Liang, C. Li, Z. Qiao, B. Li, S. Hwang, N. N. Kariuki, C.-W. Chang, M. Wang, M. Lyons, S. Lee, Z. Feng, G. Wang, J. Xie, D. A. Cullen, D. J. Myers, G. Wu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17643.
- [5] Y. Qiao, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, J. Zhang, S. Mu, J. Zhou, H. Li, H. Xia, J. He, Q. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1804504.
- [6] X. X. Wang, M. T. Swihart, G. Wu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 578.
- [7] Z. Yang, C. Zhao, Y. Qu, H. Zhou, F. Zhou, J. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808043.
- [8] J. Wang, G. Cao, R. Duan, X. Li, X. Li, *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2023**, *39*, 2212005.
- [9] S. Liu, C. Li, M. J. Zachman, Y. Zeng, H. Yu, B. Li, M. Wang, J. Braaten, J. Liu, H. M. Meyer, M. Lucero, A. J. Kropf, E. E. Alp, Q. Gong, Q. Shi, Z. Feng, H. Xu, G. Wang, D. J. Myers, J. Xie, D. A. Cullen, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 652.
- [10] Y. He, S. Liu, C. Priest, Q. Shi, G. Wu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 3484.
- [11] C. Tang, L. Chen, H. Li, L. Li, Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, H. Xu, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 7819.
- [12] M. Li, T. Liu, X. Bo, M. Zhou, L. Guo, S. Guo, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *33*, 221.
- [13] K. P. Singh, E. J. Bae, J.-S. Yu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 3165.
- [14] L. Li, S. Huang, R. Cao, K. Yuan, C. Lu, B. Huang, X. Tang, T. Hu, X. Zhuang, Y. Chen, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2105387.
- [15] C. Shao, L. Wu, Y. Wang, K. Qu, H. Chu, L. Sun, J. Ye, B. Li, X. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2022**, *316*, 121607.
- [16] C. Xin, W. Shang, J. Hu, C. Zhu, J. Guo, J. Zhang, H. Dong, W. Liu, Y. Shi, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2108345.
- [17] M. Xiao, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, H. Zhang, X. Zhao, L. Gao, X. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 17763.
- [18] Y. He, X. Yang, Y. Li, L. Liu, S. Guo, C. Shu, F. Liu, Y. Liu, Q. Tan, G. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1216.
- [19] X. Yang, C. Priest, Y. Hou, G. Wu, *SusMat* **2022**, *2*, 569.
- [20] Q. Li, W. Chen, H. Xiao, Y. Gong, Z. Li, L. Zheng, X. Zheng, W. Yan, W.-C. Cheong, R. Shen, N. Fu, L. Gu, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, D. Wang, Q. Peng, J. Li, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800588.
- [21] G. Yang, J. Zhu, P. Yuan, Y. Hu, G. Qu, B.-A. Lu, X. Xue, H. Yin, W. Cheng, J. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Li, J. Hu, S. Mu, J.-N. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1734.
- [22] Z. Chen, X. Su, J. Ding, N. Yang, W. Zuo, Q. He, Z. Wei, Q. Zhang, J. Huang, Y. Zhai, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2022**, *308*, 121206.
- [23] R. Jiang, L. Li, T. Sheng, G. Hu, Y. Chen, L. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11594.
- [24] J. Qin, H. Liu, P. Zou, R. Zhang, C. Wang, H. L. Xin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2197.
- [25] Z. Jin, P. Li, Y. Meng, Z. Fang, D. Xiao, G. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 615.
- [26] K. Im, J.-H. Jang, J. Heo, D. Kim, K.-S. Lee, H.-K. Lim, J. Kim, S. J. Yoo, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2022**, *308*, 121220.
- [27] Z. Li, Y. Chen, S. Ji, Y. Tang, W. Chen, A. Li, J. Zhao, Y. Xiong, Y. Wu, Y. Gong, T. Yao, W. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Dong, Y. Wang, Z. Zhuang, W. Xing, C.-T. He, C. Peng, W.-C. Cheong, Q. Li, M. Zhang, Z. Chen, N. Fu, X. Gao, W. Zhu, J. Wan, J. Zhang, L. Gu, S. Wei, et al., *Nat. Chem.* **2020**, *12*, 764.
- [28] X. Ge, G. Su, W. Che, J. Yang, X. Zhou, Z. Wang, Y. Qu, T. Yao, W. Liu, Y. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 10468.
- [29] Y. Wang, X. Wan, J. Liu, W. Li, Y. Li, X. Guo, X. Liu, J. Shang, J. Shui, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 3082.
- [30] D. Yao, C. Tang, X. Zhi, B. Johannessen, A. Slattery, S. Chern, S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209386.
- [31] J. Zhu, M. Xiao, D. Ren, R. Gao, X. Liu, Z. Zhang, D. Luo, W. Xing, D. Su, A. Yu, Z. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9661.

- [32] M. Xiao, H. Zhang, Y. Chen, J. Zhu, L. Gao, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, S. Chen, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *46*, 396.
- [33] M. Xiao, J. Zhu, L. Ma, Z. Jin, J. Ge, X. Deng, Y. Hou, Q. He, J. Li, Q. Jia, S. Mukerjee, R. Yang, Z. Jiang, D. Su, C. Liu, W. Xing, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 2824.
- [34] H. Zhou, T. Yang, Z. Kou, L. Shen, Y. Zhao, Z. Wang, X. Wang, Z. Yang, J. Du, J. Xu, M. Chen, L. Tian, W. Guo, Q. Wang, H. Lv, W. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, D. He, Y. Wu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20465.
- [35] M. Zhu, C. Zhao, X. Liu, X. Wang, F. Zhou, J. Wang, Y. Hu, Y. Zhao, T. Yao, L.-M. Yang, Y. Wu, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 3923.
- [36] L. Peng, J. Yang, Y. Yang, F. Qian, Q. Wang, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202544.
- [37] Z. Sun, Q. Liu, T. Yao, W. Yan, S. Wei, *Sci. China Mater.* **2015**, *58*, 313.
- [38] Z. Lu, B. Wang, Y. Hu, W. Liu, Y. Zhao, R. Yang, Z. Li, J. Luo, B. Chi, Z. Jiang, M. Li, S. Mu, S. Liao, J. Zhang, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 2622.
- [39] G. Chen, P. Liu, Z. Liao, F. Sun, Y. He, H. Zhong, T. Zhang, E. Zschech, M. Chen, G. Wu, J. Zhang, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1907399.
- [40] J.-C. Li, Y. Meng, L. Zhang, G. Li, Z. Shi, P.-X. Hou, C. Liu, H.-M. Cheng, M. Shao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103360.
- [41] Z. Wang, X. Jin, C. Zhu, Y. Liu, H. Tan, R. Ku, Y. Zhang, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, S.-J. Hwang, H. J. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2104718.
- [42] B. Wei, Z. Fu, D. Legut, T. C. Germann, S. Du, H. Zhang, J. S. Francisco, R. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2102595.
- [43] M. Xiao, Z. Xing, Z. Jin, C. Liu, J. Ge, J. Zhu, Y. Wang, X. Zhao, Z. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2004900.
- [44] X. Xie, L. Peng, H. Yang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101038.
- [45] J. Yan, Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, S. Xia, J. Yu, B. Ding, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007525.
- [46] L. Yang, X. Zhang, L. Yu, J. Hou, Z. Zhou, R. Lv, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2105410.
- [47] Z. Yang, C. Zhao, Y. Qu, H. Zhou, F. Zhou, J. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808043.
- [48] X. Zhang, S. Zhang, Y. Yang, L. Wang, Z. Mu, H. Zhu, X. Zhu, H. Xing, H. Xia, B. Huang, J. Li, S. Guo, E. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1906905.
- [49] S.-N. Zhao, J.-K. Li, R. Wang, J. Cai, S.-Q. Zang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107291.
- [50] L. Gong, H. Zhang, Y. Wang, E. Luo, K. Li, L. Gao, Y. Wang, Z. Wu, Z. Jin, J. Ge, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 13923.
- [51] X. Wang, Z. Chen, Z. Han, H. Gai, J. Zhou, Y. Wang, P. Cui, J. Ge, W. Xing, X. Zheng, M. Huang, H. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2111835.
- [52] M. Chen, Y. He, J. S. Spendelow, G. Wu, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1619.
- [53] A. C. Brezny, S. I. Johnson, S. Raugei, J. M. Mayer, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 4108.
- [54] F. Kong, X. Cui, Y. Huang, H. Yao, Y. Chen, H. Tian, G. Meng, C. Chen, Z. Chang, J. Shi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116290.
- [55] J. Lim, G. Y. Lee, H. J. Lee, S. K. Cha, D. S. Choi, S. H. Koo, W. J. Lee, S. O. Kim, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2019**, *16*, 251.
- [56] X. Zheng, X. Cao, Z. Sun, K. Zeng, J. Yan, P. Strasser, X. Chen, S. Sun, R. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2020**, *272*, 118967.
- [57] Y. Li, W. Shan, M. J. Zachman, M. Wang, S. Hwang, H. Tabassum, J. Yang, X. Yang, S. Karakalos, Z. Feng, G. Wang, G. Wu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202205632.
- [58] Y. Li, H. Wang, C. Priest, S. Li, P. Xu, G. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2000381.