---
source: Yu 等 - 2022 - Coalescence of Au–Pd Nanoropes and their Application as Enhanced Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Red.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 37.619s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:54:58.482403Z
---

# **Coalescence of Au–Pd Nanoropes and their Application as Enhanced Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Jialong Yu, Hui Jin, Qian Wang, Xiaoliang Wei, Hongyu Chen, and Yawen Wang\**

**Lattice distortions and defects can lead to a strain effect that greatly affects the electronic structure of the noble metal surface and the chemical adsorption of ligands on the surfaces. Introducing defects is an efficient strategy to improve the activity of noble metal catalysts. Herein, a fusion approach is developed to fine-tune the defects and lattice strain in Au–Pd nanowires. Specifically, braided strands in Au–Pd nanoropes gradually coalesce to form solid nanowires upon H2O2 treatment and heating, leading to a series of Au–Pd nanowires with various amounts of defects. Owing to the 1D morphology, as well as the optimized lattice strain and surface electronic structure, the intermediate Au–Pd nanowire obtained after 60 min heating (denoted as Au–Pd NW60) exhibits excellent catalytic activity and stability toward the oxygen reduction reaction, with the half-wave potential at 0.918 V, 45 mV higher than that of the commercial Pt/C; and specific activity reaches up to 1.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , 7.3 times higher than that of the Pt/C.**

# **1. Introduction**

Noble metal nanomaterials are promising catalyst candidates.[1] In the past few decades, their morphologies, compositions, crystalline phases, as well as the related synergistic effect, ligand effect, and strain effect, have been widely explored.[2] In particular, the strain effect, which originates from large lattice distortions and abundant defects, can effectively alter the surface electronic structures and the chemical adsorption of ligands on noble metal surfaces, resulting in the improvement of the catalytic activities of the materials.[2d,3]

Many synthetic efforts had been devoted to introducing and adjusting strain in noble metal lattices.[4] For instance, after being supported on the Li-ion battery electrode, the surface strain of Pt nanoparticles can be tuned from compressive to tensile with lithiation and delithiation processes.[5] Constructing

J. Yu, H. Jin, Q. Wang, X. Wei, Y. Wang Institute of Advanced Synthesis School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering Nanjing Tech University Nanjing 211816, P. R. China E-mail: ias\_ywwang@njtech.edu.cn H. Chen School of Science Westlake University Hangzhou 310064, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202203458.

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202203458**

core–shell structures with lattice-mismatched metals is another common approach to obtaining strained bimetallic nanostructures, where the strain in the shells can be adjusted by changing the shell thickness or the proportion of metal composition.[6] Recently, highly strained nanowires with remarkable alcoholoxidation activities were synthesized by depositing Pd on the ultrathin Au–Ag nanowires, and the strain in the trimetallic nanowires can be adjusted by the amount of Pd deposition.[7] Overall, strain engineering is an effective way to develop catalysts with high activities and stabilities.[8]

Coalescence is a common, yet usually undesired feature in nanoparticle synthesis and applications.[9] During the coalescence process, lattices of nanoparticles would merge together, and rearrange to

eliminate defects when the grains are not perfectly aligned.[10] While extensive attention had been paid to characterizing this process, the strain change associated with the lattice evolution in coalescence is generally overlooked.[11] Exploiting coalescence in strain engineering remains largely unexplored. In addition, many strain engineering methods that involve the introduction of foreign elements would also cause variation in the composition of the materials, making it difficult to pinpoint the strain effect in applications. Since the chemical composition of the materials would not be affected during the coalescence process, it can offer a useful platform for studying the strain effect of the materials.

Previously, our group reported an unconventional type of helical Au–Pd alloy nanoropes.[12] Upon deposition of Pd onto the ultrathin Au nanowires, the lattice structure of the nanowires changed from the as-synthesized face-center-cubic (fcc) toward the helical Boerdijk–Coxeter–Bernal lattice, causing the straight nanowire bundles twisted into ropes.[13] The alloy nanoropes possess a unique highly strained lattice, giving rise to its potential application as high-performance electrocatalysts.[14]

In this work, we employ a fusion approach to regulating the defects and lattice strain in Au–Pd nanoropes and investigate the catalytic activities of the fused solid Au–Pd nanowires in oxygen reduction reactions (ORR). Upon heating and H2O2 treatment, the individual strand in the nanoropes would gradually coalesce to form solid nanowires. The fusion behavior was investigated to be affected by the number of strands, temperature, as well as the striping of the surface ligands by H2O2. The fusion degree was also found directly affect the ORR performances of the nanowires. While the electrochemical **www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2022, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202203458 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

surface area (ECSA) decreases with the fusion degree, the specific activities (SA) of the nanowires would first increase and then decrease. Thus, among all the Au–Pd nanoropes derivatives, the intermediate solid nanowires obtained at 1 h incubation exhibit the best electrocatalytic activity for ORR, with the halfwave potential at 0.918 V, 45 mV higher than the commercial Pt/C and 74 mV higher than the commercial Pd/C. Its SA reaches up to 1.7 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , 7.3 times higher than the Pt/C.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

**Figure 1**a schematically illustrates the coalescence of the Au–Pd nanoropes. The Au–Pd nanoropes were synthesized following the previously reported method with modifications.[12] Typically, oleylamine-stabilized ultrathin Au nanowires were first synthesized in hexane and phase transferred to an aqueous solution. Nanoropes with helical morphologies could be obtained by depositing Pd onto the phase-transferred Au nanowire bundles. Upon deposition, the diffusion of Pd in Au nanowires and the formation of Au–Pd alloy destabilize the original nanowire lattices and cause lattice transformation, leading to the twist of the ultrathin nanowires and the coaxial twist of the nanowire bundles.

To induce the coalescence of the nanoropes, 2 mL of the assynthesized nanoropes were purified and redispersed in 1 mL of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) solution (4 mm). After adding 20 µL of H2O2 solution (30%), the dark brown mixture was incubated in a pre-heated 100 °C oven to initiate the coalescence process. The coalesced nanowires can be collected by centrifugation and subjected to characterizations after purifications.

Figure 1b,c shows the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of the Au–Pd nanoropes and the coalesced Au–Pd solid nanowires after 2 h incubation. The nanoropes

**Figure 1.** a) Schematics illustrating the coalescence of Au–Pd nanoropes; TEM images of typical b) as-synthesized nanoropes, c) solid nanowires, the enlarged segment of d) triple-helical nanoropes, e) solid nanowires formed by coalescing triple-helical nanoropes, f) double-helical nanoropes, and g) solid nanowires formed by coalescing double-helical nanoropes. h) HAADF-STEM and the corresponding EDS elemental mapping images of a typical coalesced solid nanowire.

generally resembled the previously reported morphologies,[12] with most of the nanoropes having a diameter of 6–30 nm, which corresponds to the braiding of 2–10 nanowire strands. After the fusion treatment, most gaps between the individual strand disappeared in each nanoropes, and the nanoropes coalesced together to become solid nanowires (Figure 1c). Compared to nanoropes, solid nanowires generally have decreased diameters. For instance, the average diameters of the nanowires transformed from double helices decreased from 6 nm to about 3.8 nm (Figure 1f,g), and the diameter of those from triplex helices decreased from 7.5 nm to about 5.5 nm (Figure 1d,e). For nanoropes with more strands, it would be difficult to estimate the exact number of strands in the original nanoropes based on the diameters of the coalesced nanowires.

The solid nanowires still retain the alloy nature, as verified by the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping results (Figure 1h and Figure S1, Supporting Information). Similar to the nanoropes, the Au and Pd elements are distributed uniformly in the solid nanowires. The atomic ratio of Au/Pd in the alloy nanoropes was 2:1 as determined by the inductive-coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry , and such composition remained unchanged after the coalescence process.

The coalescence degree of the nanowires can be readily adjusted by varying the time of incubation. Taking the double helices as an example, at 10 min incubation, the average gaps between double helices already decreased from 2 to 0.9 nm, indicating the fusion of the two strands (**Figure 2**a,b). The narrowing of the gaps becomes much more obvious as the incubation progressed. At 30 min, some of the gaps already disappeared, and after 60 min incubation, all gaps between the two strands become almost invisible, but the nanowire still retained the helical outline (Figure 2c,d). Finally, after 2 h incubation, solid nanowires with uniform diameters can be obtained, and such morphology would not further change after a prolonged incubation process (Figure 2e,f). A similar coalescence process could also be observed in other nanoropes with multiple strands, where the braided morphology gradually disappeared with the incubation process, and the nanoropes all transformed to solid nanowires in about 2 h (Figure S2, Supporting Information).

The evolution of the lattice structures of Au–Pd nanowires during the coalescence process was characterized by highresolution TEM (HRTEM). Before coalescence, the individual strands in the Au–Pd nanoropes have highly disordered lattices, in which no large crystalline grain can be observed (**Figure 3**a and Figure S3a, Supporting Information). The average spacing of (111) and (200) crystal planes is 0.231 and 0.203 nm, respectively, consistent with the alloy nature of the nanowires. The intermediate nanowires, which have narrower gaps between the fused strands, still possess highly disordered lattices, as indicated by the fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns (Figure 3g,h and Figure S3g,h, Supporting Information). Moreover, the fact that no diffracted beam points were observed in the FFT patterns of the nanowires suggests a possible increase of lattice disorderliness in the nanowires at this stage. Further progress in the fusion process eventually led to the complete disappearance of the gaps, accompanied by the emergence of randomly oriented small fcc crystalline grains (Figure 3c). The increase of regularity in the lattice structure can also be demonstrated by the diffracted points in the FFT patterns (Figure 3i,j and Figure S3i,j, Supporting Information). Still, there were plenty of randomly oriented boundaries and defects in the nanowires at this stage. The fusion process generally finishes after 2 h incubation, and the lattice structure of the coalesced Au–Pd nanowires becomes much more regular: the nanowires were made of relatively large fcc crystalline grains with the [111] axes aligned with the longitudinal direction of the nanowire (Figure 3d), and the original strands cannot be distinguished

**Figure 2.** TEM images of double-helical nanowires after a) 0 min, b) 10 min, c) 30 min, d) 60 min, e) 120 min, and f) 180 min of coalescence at 100 °C.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**Figure 3.** HRTEM images of the sections of a) Au–Pd nanorope, b,c) intermediate nanowires during the coalescence process, and d) completely fused solid nanowire. e–m) Fast Fourier transformation (FFT) patterns of selected areas in (a–d).

anymore, as there are almost no longitudinal grain boundaries. Nevertheless, due to the kinetic issue, plenty of stacking faults as well as (111) twining planes remain present in the solid nanowires (Figure 3k–m). Such an increase in the degree of crystallinity could also be supported by the narrowing of the X-ray diffraction (XRD) peaks. The XRD patterns of both nanoropes and the coalesced nanowires resemble the fcc Au, with the peaks slightly shifting to the fcc Pd due to their alloy nature. After fusion, the (111) peak width at half-height of the coalesced nanowires decreased to 2.02°, 1.25° narrower than that of the original nanoropes, indicating the increase in the crystalline grain sizes (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The evolution of the lattice structure and the grain sizes suggests a plausible variation of the lattice strain in the nanowires during the fusion process.

To further demonstrate the lattice transition in the fusion process, Ag blocks were grown onto the various intermediate coalesced nanowires. The orientations of the Ag blocks can be used to indicate the lattice structure of the nanowires, as Ag would epitaxially deposit on Au.[15] Interestingly, Ag deposition on the completely fused solid nanowire leads to the formation of bracelet-like beads along the nanowires, while on the intermediate coalesced nanowires, the Ag blocks were distributed and oriented unevenly, and no Ag blocks could be observed on the nanoropes (Figure S5, Supporting Information), probably because the disordered lattice structure in the nanoropes prevented the epitaxial deposition of Ag. As the fusion proceeds, the crystallinity of the nanowire gradually increases, and the growth of the Ag blocks becomes increasingly regular.

During the coalescence process, each portion of one uniform nanowire would have almost the same degree of coalescence. Thus, the coalescence of the nanoropes in the present work would not proceed in a zipper-like manner, where the fusion initiates from one site and fuses along the nanowires.[15] Instead, it is more likely to start simultaneously from multiple sites where the individual strands crossed with each other, as demonstrated by some intermediate nanoropes containing discontinuous coalesced segments (**Figure 4**a).

It is also noticed that the "U-turns" observed at the end of the double-helical nanoropes were usually retained after the fusion of the nanowire strands (Figure 4c). Even with a prolonged incubation process, such "U-turns" cannot be eliminated. The presence of the "U-turns" in the coalesced nanowires cannot be explained solely by the geometric consideration, as the fusion seems to stop at a certain point. We speculate that the disordered lattices of the nanoropes would prevent the bent of the segments at "U-turns," making this segment to be rigid and resistant to coalescence.

The number of strands in the nanoropes would greatly affect the coalescence of the nanoropes, and those with fewer strands would fuse much faster than the others. In some trapped intermediate samples, it can be found that the thin nanoropes, such as double helices and triple helices, were fusing into solid nanowires, whereas the thick nanoropes with more than five strands remained almost unchanged (Figure 4d). Occasionally, nanoropes with both completely coalesced double-helical segments and braided triple-helical segments can be observed in the intermediate sample trapped at 1 h (Figure 4b). The strandnumber-related fusion behavior might be explained by the difference in the curvature of the strands. The curvature of the strands decreases with the increase of the number of strands in each nanoropes,[12] and the surface ligand concentration decreases with the surface curvature.[16] Thus, the strands in the thin nanoropes are less protected by the ligands and more prone to coalescence.

Control experiments indicated that the coalescence of nanoropes is critically dependent on temperature and the H2O2 treatment, while the surfactant SDS has no significant effect on the coalescence process (Figure S6, Supporting Information). Decreasing the incubation temperature from 100 to 80 °C would significantly slow down the fusion process. While the coalescence would generally complete in 2 h for all types of

**Figure 4.** TEM images of typical solid nanowires containing a) discontinuous coalesced segments, b) both coalesced double-helix segments and braided triple-helix segments, and c) terminal "U-turn." d) A typical sample containing both fused thin nanoropes and unfused thick nanoropes.

nanoropes at 100 °C, nanoropes with three or more strands would need more than 4 h to coalesce at 80 °C (Figure S7c,d, Supporting Information). Further decreasing the temperature to 60 °C would halt the coalescence of the nanowires: all nanoropes remained unchanged after 4 h incubation (Figure S7b, Supporting Information). Generally, the morphology of nanoropes can maintain for at least half a month at room temperature (Figure S7a, Supporting Information). Although the incubation temperature is far below the melting point of the Au–Pd metal alloy, it can still take effect by accelerating the dissociation kinetics of the surface ligands and the surface migration of atoms during the coalescence process. Moreover, the elevated incubation temperature also enables the reorganization of the internal lattice structure.

On the other hand, H2O2 is vital to the coalescence of the nanoropes. Without H2O2 treatment, even the double-helical nanoropes would not coalesce after 2 h incubation at 100 °C (Figure S8a, Supporting Information). The concentration of H2O2 also directly affects the coalescence kinetics. Taking the 1 h intermediates as an indicator, with 1/10 of the typical concentration of H2O2, only a portion of double helices would fuse after 1 h incubation, and the rest nanoropes remain unchanged (Figure S8b,c, Supporting Information). Increasing the concentration of H2O2 to 1/2 of the typical usage, the majority of the double helices would finish coalescence at 1 h, and fused segments started to appear on triple and quadruple helical nanoropes (Figure S8d,e, Supporting Information). With the typical condition of 76.8 mm, all double helices and the majority of the triple helices would complete fusion at 1 h; and if the H2O2 concentration was increased to 369.2 mm, almost all nanoropes would get fused after 1 h incubation (Figure S8f, Supporting Information). Given the same trend of the effect of H2O2 and incubation temperature, we believe H2O2 would help the dissociation of the surface ligand on the strands,[15] thereby increasing the surface energy of the nanowires and facilitating the coalescence of the nanoropes.

Overall, the transformation from Au–Pd nanoropes to solid nanowires is a thermodynamic-driven process. The coalescence of the nanowire strands would greatly decrease the surface-to-volume ratio of the nanowires, and thus, minimize the overall surface energy, and the re-organization of the internal lattice structure would eventually lead to the relaxation of the lattice strains. During this process, the H2O2 treatment helps to remove the surface ligands, activating the fusion process by

www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

causing the temporal increase of surface energy and destabilization of the nanowire strands. The elevated temperature accelerates the dissociation kinetics of the surface ligands, which favors the migration of the surface atoms, and also facilitates the reorganization of the internal crystalline structures.

The electrochemical performances of the coalesced nanowires, as well as the defect-rich intermediate nanowires were characterized as the ORR electrocatalysts. The ECSAs of the electrocatalysts were first determined by the hydrogen underpotential deposition (H-UPD) method (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The ECSA of the nanoropes was determined to be 121.64 m²  $\rm g_{PGM}^{-1}$ , and since the fusion would cause the merge of the nanowire strands, the ECSAs of the coalesced Au–Pd nanowires obtained after 30, 60, and 120 min fusion (denoted as Au–Pd NW $_{30}$ , Au–Pd NW $_{60}$ , and Au–Pd NW $_{120}$ ) decreased gradually to 117.17, 94.23, and 92.64 m²  $\rm g_{PGM}^{-1}$ , respectively. Nevertheless, all of the nanoropes/nanowires still have higher ESCAs than the commercial catalysts (45.08 m²  $\rm g_{PGM}^{-1}$  for Pt/C and 22.80 m²  $\rm g_{PGM}^{-1}$  for Pd/C).

The ORR activities of the Au–Pd nanowires/nanoropes were studied by linear sweep voltammetry using the rotating disk electrode technique. **Figure 5**a shows the ORR polarization curves of different catalysts in an  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution. Both the onset potential and half-wave potential of the Au–Pd nanoropes, Au–Pd NW $_{30}$ , Au–Pd NW $_{60}$ , and Au–Pd NW $_{120}$  are more positive than those of the commercial Pt/C (0.976 and 0.873 V, respectively) and Pd/C (0.973 and 0.844 V, respectively) catalysts. In particular, the Au–Pd NW $_{60}$  showed the best ORR activity, with the half-wave potential at

0.918 V, 45 mV higher than the commercial Pt/C. The mass activity (MA) and specific activity (SA) of the electrocatalysts at 0.9 V were calculated using the Koutecky–Levich (K–L) equation. The SA of the Au–Pd NW $_{60}$  reached up to 1.7 mA cm $^{-2}$  at 0.9 V, which is about 7.3 times larger than that of Pt/C (Figure 5c), superior to most reported Au–Pd nanomaterials (Table S1, Supporting Information). Moreover, it has the smallest Tafel slope (68.7 mV dec $^{-1}$ ) in all tested catalysts, which was also smaller than that of the commercial Pt/C (80.5 mV dec $^{-1}$ ) and Pd/C (119 mV dec $^{-1}$ ), indicating a more ideal kinetic process for ORR (Figure 5b). The K–L plots of the Au–Pd NW $_{60}$  also indicate the number of the electron transfer of ORR is about four, suggesting a dominant four-electron transfer process (Figure S10, Supporting Information).

The alloy nature of the nanoropes/nanowires is considered to contribute largely to their improved ORR activities.<sup>[18]</sup> The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of the Au–Pd nanoropes and nanowires exhibits mostly Pd<sup>0</sup> and Au<sup>0</sup> species (Figures S11 and S12, Supporting Information), and the negative shift of the Au<sup>0</sup> (4f) peaks (83.62 and 87.32 eV) and the positive shift of the Pd<sup>0</sup>(3d) peaks (335.41 and 340.67 eV) suggest the charge transfer from Pd to Au. This would lead to the decrease of electron density on Pd and weaker Pd–O bond strength during the ORR process,<sup>[19]</sup> improving the catalytic activity of the alloy nanowires.

Furthermore, although the ECSAs gradually decrease as the nanoropes get coalesced, the catalytic activity would first increase and then decrease with the degree of coalescence. Such a trend could also be observed when ORR was carried out

Figure 5. Electrocatalytic performance of nanoropes, Au–Pd NW $_{30}$ , Au–Pd NW $_{60}$ , Au–Pd NW $_{120}$ , commercial Pt/C, and commercial Pd/C catalysts for ORR. a) Polarization curves of different catalysts obtained in O $_2$ -saturated 0.1  $\,$ M KOH, b) Tafel slopes derived from the polarization curves in panel (a). c) Half-wave potentials and specific activities of different catalysts. ORR polarization curves of d) Au–Pd NW $_{60}$  and e) commercial Pt/C before and after 10000 potential cycles in the range of 0.6–1 V (vs RHE) at a scan rate of 200 mV s $^{-1}$  in O $_2$ -saturated 0.1  $\,$ M KOH solution. f) Histogram comparison of the mass activities of Au–Pd NW $_{60}$  and commercial Pt/C before and after 10000 potential cycles.

www.small-journal.com

in acidic conditions (Figure S13, Supporting Information). This can be attributed to the variation of surface electronic structures in the coalesced Au-Pd nanowires. XPS results of the coalesced nanowires show a gradual decrease of binding energies of Au 4f and Pd 3d (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The additional negative movement of Pd 3d suggests the downshift of the d band center of the surface Pd atoms, which could further weaken the adsorption of the oxygen intermediates (O\* or OH\*).[18a] In addition, although all the nanoropes/nanowires were highly strained, as indicated by a 0.38 eV positive shift of the Au<sup>0</sup> 4f (strain) originated from the compression of the Au lattice by Pd alloying (Figure S11, Supporting Information), the intermediate coalesced nanowires (Au-Pd NW<sub>30</sub> and Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub>) show additional Pd<sup>0</sup> (strain) XPS peak at 334.75 eV, which is originated from the Pd<sup>0</sup> at highly tensile sites.<sup>[7,20]</sup> Such an increase of strain in these two intermediates is consistent with the abundant defects observed in the HRTEM images. The tensile strain of Pd could lead to the reduction of the reaction energy barrier of rate-determining steps for ORR (O\* +  $H_2O$  +  $e^- \rightarrow OH^* + OH^-$ , [21] further improving the intrinsic catalytic activity in Au-Pd NW<sub>30</sub> and Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub>. As the fusion time increased to 120 min, the number of defects in the Au-Pd<sub>120</sub> would decrease significantly, and so as its catalytic activity.

To demonstrate the stability of the nanoropes/nanowire catalysts, the accelerated durability tests (ADT) of Au-Pd NW60 and Pt/C electrocatalyst were conducted in O2-saturated KOH (0.1 M) solution.<sup>[22]</sup> As depicted in Figure 5d,e, the half-wave potential of solid nanowires is basically unchanged after 10000 cycles, which is much smaller than that of Pt/C ( $\Delta E_{1/2} = 24$  mV) after the same cycles. Meanwhile, the MA of Pt/C dropped to 54.5% after 10 000 cycles, while the Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub> retained 92.4% MA after cycling (Figure 5f). The difference in the stability can be attributed to the 1D morphology of the nanowires. TEM images show that the Pt/C catalysts underwent serious aggregation after the ADT cycles (Figure S14, Supporting Information), resulting in a sharp decline in catalytic performance and mass activity (Figure 5f). In contrast, the morphology of Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub> remained almost unchanged, with only the emergence of a few clumps, which are likely the aggregates of the nanoparticle by-products.

Additionally, the Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub> also exhibits excellent methanol tolerance. Its ORR current at 0.8 V only changed slightly after the introduction of 2 m methanol (Figure S15, Supporting Information). In contrast, the ORR current of Pt/C shifts from a cathodic current to a reversed anodic current immediately after the addition of methanol, indicating a conversion of the dominant ORR to the methanol oxidation reaction.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, Au-Pd solid nanowires with complex lattice structures and enhanced catalytic performances were developed with an unconventional coalescence approach. By treating the Au-Pd nanoropes with H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and incubating them at elevated temperatures, the strands in the nanoropes were gradually coalesced in a controlled manner, allowing continuous evolution of lattice structures from disordered lattices to regular polycrystalline fcc lattice. The coalescence process yielded a series of Au-Pd alloy nanowires with enhanced catalytic activities. In particular, the nanowires obtained after 60 min incubation (the Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub>) exhibited the best electrocatalytic activity for ORR, with the half-wave potential at 0.918 V, 45 mV higher than that of the commercial Pt/C, and specific activity of 1.7 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 7.3 times higher than that of the Pt/C. Owing to its 1D morphology and alloy nature, the Au-Pd NW<sub>60</sub> also has much better methanol tolerance and stabilities. Since the intermediate Au-Pd nanowires are difficult to be obtained by other direct synthetic approaches, we believe this unique strain engineering strategy of coalescence offers a useful means for designing and constructing sophisticated noble metal catalysts.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21703104, 21673117, and 91956109), Jiangsu Science and Technology Plan (BK20170980), and Nanjing Tech University (39837131).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

Au-Pd alloys, coalescence, oxygen reduction reaction, strain engineering, ultrathin gold nanowires

> Received: June 3, 2022 Revised: August 16, 2022 Published online: September 19, 2022

16138289, 2022, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202203488 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] a) Q. Shi, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2019, 48, 3181; b) F. Zhang, Y. Zhu, Q. Lin, L. Zhang, X. Zhang, H. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2021, 14, 2954; c) M. Liu, Z. Zhao, X. Duan, Y. Huang, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1802234.
- [2] a) Y. Shi, Z. Lyu, M. Zhao, R. Chen, Q. N. Nguyen, Y. Xia, Chem. Rev. 2021, 121, 649; b) Y. Chen, Z. Fan, J. Wang, C. Ling, W. Niu, Z. Huang, G. Liu, B. Chen, Z. Lai, X. Liu, B. Li, Y. Zong, L. Gu, J. Wang, X. Wang, H. Zhang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 12760; c) Y. Ge, Z. Huang, C. Ling, B. Chen, G. Liu, M. Zhou, J. Liu, X. Zhang, H. Cheng, G. Liu, Y. Du, C. J. Sun, C. Tan, J. Huang, P. Yin, Z. Fan, Y. Chen, N. Yang, H. Zhang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 18971; d) M. Luo, S. Guo, Nat. Rev. Mater. 2017, 2, 17059; e) T. Wang, A. Chutia, D. J. L. Brett, P. R. Shearing, G. He, G. Chai, I. P. Parkin, Energy Environ. Sci. 2021, 14, 2639.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

- [3] a) Z. Xia, S. Guo, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, 3265; b) J. Wu, P. Li, Y. T. Pan, S. Warren, X. Yin, H. Yang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2012**, *41*, 8066.
- [4] X. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Tong, N. Yang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *12*, 2102261.
- [5] H. Wang, S. Xu, C. Tsai, Y. Li, C. Liu, J. Zhao, Y. Liu, H. Yuan, F. Abild-Pedersen, F. B. Prinz, J. K. Nørskov, Y. Cui, *Science* **2016**, *354*, 1031.
- [6] a) L. Yang, G. Li, J. Chang, J. Ge, C. Liu, F. Vladimir, G. Wang, Z. Jin, W. Xing, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *260*, 118200; b) A. C. Meng, M. R. Braun, Y. Wang, C. S. Fenrich, M. Xue, D. R. Diercks, B. P. Gorman, M. I. Richard, A. F. Marshall, W. Cai, J. S. Harris, P. C. McIntyre, *Mater. Today Nano* **2019**, *5*, 100026; c) J. T. L. Gamler, A. Leonardi, X. Sang, K. M. Koczkur, R. R. Unocic, M. Engel, S. E. Skrabalak, *Nanoscale Adv.* **2020**, *2*, 1105.
- [7] S. Zhang, K. Liu, Z. Liu, M. Liu, Z. Zhang, Z. Qiao, L. Ming, C. Gao, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 1074.
- [8] a) S. Maiti, K. Maiti, M. T. Curnan, K. Kim, K.-J. Noh, J. W. Han, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3717; b) J. Liang, Z. Zhao, N. Li, X. Wang, S. Li, X. Liu, T. Wang, G. Lu, D. Wang, B.-J. Hwang, Y. Huang, D. Su, Q. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2000179; c) X. Tian, X. Zhao, Y.-Q. Su, L. Wang, H. Wang, D. Dang, B. Chi, H. Liu, E. J. M. Hensen, X. W. Lou, B. Y. Xia, *Science* **2019**, *366*, 850.
- [9] a) J. Lee, J. Yang, S. G. Kwon, T. Hyeon, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2016**, *1*, 16034; b) N. T. K. Thanh, N. Maclean, S. Mahiddine, *Chem. Rev.* **2014**, *114*, 7610.
- [10] a) B. Ingham, T. H. Lim, C. J. Dotzler, A. Henning, M. F. Toney, R. D. Tilley, *Chem. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 3312; b) Y. Yu, F. Cui, J. Sun, P. Yang, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 3078; c) M. A. van Huis, L. T. Kunneman, K. Overgaag, Q. Xu, G. Pandraud, H. W. Zandbergen, D. Vanmaekelbergh, *Nano Lett.* **2008**, *8*, 3959.
- [11] a) M. José-Yacamán, C. Gutierrez-Wing, M. Miki, D. Q. Yang, K. N. Piyakis, E. Sacher, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2005**, *109*, 9703; b) P. Grammatikopoulos, M. Sowwan, J. Kioseoglou, *Adv. Theory Simul.* **2019**, *2*, 1900013; c) P. Guo, Y. Gao, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2020**, *124*, 066101.
- [12] Y. Lu, X. Cheng, H. Li, J. Zhao, W. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 10629.

- [13] a) Y. Wang, Q. Wang, H. Sun, W. Zhang, G. Chen, Y. Wang, X. Shen, Y. Han, X. Lu, H. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 20060; b) Y. Zhu, J. He, C. Shang, X. Miao, J. Huang, Z. Liu, H. Chen, Y. Han, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 12746; c) Y. Lu, S. Yang, J. Xu, Z. Liu, H. Wang, M. Lin, Y. Wang, H. Chen, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1801925.
- [14] Z. Kong, Y. Maswadeh, J. A. Vargas, S. Shan, Z.-P. Wu, H. Kareem, A. C. Leff, D. T. Tran, F. Chang, S. Yan, S. Nam, X. Zhao, J. M. Lee, J. Luo, S. Shastri, G. Yu, V. Petkov, C.-J. Zhong, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 1287.
- [15] J. Xu, Y. Wang, X. Qi, C. Liu, J. He, H. Zhang, H. Chen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2013**, *52*, 6019.
- [16] a) D. A. Walker, E. K. Leitsch, R. J. Nap, I. Szleifer, B. A. Grzybowski, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2013**, *8*, 676; b) Y. Gong, Z. Cao, Z. Zhang, R. Liu, F. Zhang, J. Wei, Z. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202117406; c) D. Kim, D. C. Lee, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2020**, *11*, 2647; d) E. Villarreal, G. G. Li, Q. Zhang, X. Fu, H. Wang, *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, 4443.
- [17] M. Luo, Z. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Sun, Y. Xing, F. Lv, Y. Yang, X. Zhang, S. Hwang, Y. Qin, J.-Y. Ma, F. Lin, D. Su, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nature* **2019**, *574*, 81.
- [18] a) J. Wang, X. Qiu, K. Su, S. Wang, J. Li, Y. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 19300; b) X. Jiang, X. Qiu, G. Fu, J. Sun, Z. Huang, D. Sun, L. Xu, J. Zhou, Y. Tang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 17682; c) Q. Xue, J. Bai, C. Han, P. Chen, J.-X. Jiang, Y. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 11287.
- [19] a) Y. Lu, J. Wang, Y. Peng, A. Fisher, X. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700919; b) Y. Liu, S. Liu, Z. Che, S. Zhao, X. Sheng, M. Han, J. Bao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 16690; c) W. Jiao, C. Chen, W. You, X. Zhao, J. Zhang, Y. Feng, P. Wang, R. Che, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1904072.
- [20] B. Richter, H. Kuhlenbeck, H. J. Freund, P. S. Bagus, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2004**, *93*, 026805.
- [21] W. Zhu, H. Yuan, F. Liao, Y. Shen, H. Shi, Y. Shi, L. Xu, M. Ma, M. Shao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *389*, 124240.
- [22] Q. Yang, L. Shi, B. Yu, J. Xu, C. Wei, Y. Wang, H. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 18846.