---
source: Yuan 等 - 2023 - Beads‐on‐string hierarchical structured electrocatalysts for efficient oxygen reduction reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.397s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:55:45.882322Z
---

# RESEARCH ARTICLE

# Beads‐on‐string hierarchical structured electrocatalysts for efficient oxygen reduction reaction

Yang Yuan1 | Qing Zhang<sup>1</sup> | Yinling Li<sup>1</sup> | Luyao Lv1 | Yan Hou1 | Ge Li<sup>2</sup> | Jing Fu3 | Lin Yang<sup>1</sup> | Zhengyu Bai<sup>1</sup>

### Correspondence

Zhengyu Bai and Lin Yang, Collaborative Innovation Center of Henan Province for Green Manufacturing of Fine Chemicals, Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Media and Reactions, Ministry of Education, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, Henan 453007, People's Republic of China.

Email: [baizhengyu@htu.edu.cn](mailto:baizhengyu@htu.edu.cn) and [yanglin@htu.edu.cn](mailto:yanglin@htu.edu.cn)

Jing Fu, Key Laboratory of Advanced Civil Engineering Materials of Ministry of Education, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 201804, People's Republic of China.

Email: [jingfu@tongji.edu.cn](mailto:jingfu@tongji.edu.cn)

# Funding information

Higher Education Discipline Innovation Project, Grant/Award Number: D17007; Xinxiang Major Science and Technology Projects, Grant/Award Number: 21ZD001; Henan Center for Outstanding Overseas Scientists, Grant/Award Number: GZS2022017; National Natural Science Foundation of China, Grant/Award Numbers: 51872075, 51922008, 52072114

### Abstract

Rational design of hierarchically structured electrocatalysts is particularly important for electrocatalytic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Here, ZIF‐67 crystals are stringed on core–shell Ag@C nanocables using a coordination‐ modulated process. Upon pyrolysis, Ag@C strings of Co nanoparticles embedded with three‐dimensional porous carbon with beads‐on‐string hierarchical structures are developed. Due to the advantages of the rich electrochemical active sites of Co‐based "beads" and the efficient electron transfer pathways via Ag@C "strings," the resultant NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐ 700 catalyst shows an improved electrocatalytic activity toward ORR. NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 shows a high onset potential of 0.99 V versus RHE, a high half‐wave potential of 0.88 V versus RHE, and a large limiting current of 5.8 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which are better than those of commercial Pt/C electrocatalysts. Additionally, the NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 catalyst shows high stability and preeminent methanol tolerance, which makes NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 a promising catalyst for oxygen electrocatalysis in fuel cell applications.

### KEYWORDS

beads‐on‐string structure, electrocatalyst, metal–organic framework, oxygen reduction reaction

This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

© 2022 The Authors. Carbon Energy published by Wenzhou University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

<sup>1</sup> Collaborative Innovation Center of Henan Province for Green Manufacturing of Fine Chemicals, Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Media and Reactions, Ministry of Education, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Normal University, Xinxiang, Henan, People's Republic of China

<sup>2</sup> Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada

<sup>3</sup> Key Laboratory of Advanced Civil Engineering Materials of Ministry of Education, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China

26379368, 2023, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cey2.253 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# 1 | INTRODUCTION

Driven by the increasing energy and environmental crises as a result of the burning of fossil fuels, development of low‐cost and environmentally friendly energy storage and conversion technologies with high efficiency, including metal–air batteries and fuel cells, has received considerable attention.1–[10](#page-8-0) However, a major obstacle that hinders the practical application of these devices is the slow kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on the cathode, resulting in low electrochemical performance[.11](#page-8-1)–<sup>14</sup> Currently, platinum (Pt)‐based electrocatalysts with high electrocatalytic activity are the ORR benchmarks when they are used in alkaline electrolytes[.15](#page-9-0)–<sup>18</sup> Unfortunately, large‐scope applications of Pt‐based electrocatalysts are restricted due to their high cost, scarcity, and insufficient stability, driving the need for the synthesis of cost‐effective and durable alternatives to substitute for Pt‐based electrocatalysts[.19](#page-9-1)–<sup>21</sup>

To enhance the electrocatalytic performance toward ORR, exploration of new active sites and modification of the material structures have become two main strategies.[22](#page-9-2)–<sup>25</sup> Among them, rational design and construction of ORR electrocatalysts with heterostructures were reported to increase the surface charge density and the reactivity of active sites,[26,27](#page-9-3) promote transport pathways of ions,[28](#page-9-4) and lower interfacial resistances,[29](#page-9-5)–<sup>32</sup> leading to enhanced electrocatalytic performance. Materials with different heterostructures were developed for the ORR, such as the heterostructures formed by immobilizing metallic nitride quantum dots on the surface of oxide nanosheets,[33,34](#page-9-6) core–shell structures with the wrapping of covalent organic frameworks on the surface of a metal–organic framework (MOF),[35,36](#page-9-7) and the heterostructures formed by dispersing and confining alloy nanoparticles within carbon substrates.[37](#page-9-8)–<sup>39</sup> Both experimental results and theoretical calculations have shown that heterostructures can significantly improve ORR performance.[40](#page-9-9)–<sup>44</sup> For instance, using a hybrid strategy, Yang et al.[45](#page-10-0) obtained a Co, N co‐doped one‐dimension (1D) carbon nanotube (CNT)/two‐dimension (2D) graphene heterostructured electrocatalyst (Co/NCNT/NG). On adjusting the ratio of the raw materials (g‐C3N4 and Co salt), the obtained Co/NCNT/NG catalyst showed good ORR activity, with a high half‐wave potential of 0.85V versus RHE, as well as excellent stability. The testing results indicate that the improved activity toward ORR for Co/NCNT/NG mainly occurred due to its hierarchical 1D/2D heterostructure and the presence of more active sites for efficient ORR electrocatalysis.

Besides, metal–organic frameworks (MOFs), which are a type of crystalline material composed of ligands and metal ions, are also widely used in oxygen electrocatalysis.[46](#page-10-1)–<sup>48</sup> In particular, by thermal annealing, MOF can be transformed into porous carbon‐based materials supporting metal nanoparticles, which show superior activity for ORR.[49](#page-10-2) For example, Peera et al[.47](#page-10-3) used Zn(ac)2, cobalt nitrate hexahydrate, and pyrazole as crude materials to form nitrogen‐doped carbon (Co@NC) encapsulating cobalt with core–shell heterostructures through mechanochemical coordination and subsequent pyrolysis. The Co@NC catalyst with core–shell heterostructures showed excellent electrocatalytic activity for ORR, with a high half‐wave potential of 0.88 V versus RHE. This high activity can be attributed to the obtained core–shell heterostructures, in which CoNx–C<sup>y</sup> and Co–N<sup>x</sup> species acted as the main active sites to catalyze the ORR reaction. However, for MOF‐derived carbon‐ based materials, it has been found that during the pyrolysis of MOF, the aggregation and sintering of MOF nanocrystals can result in fewer active sites and limited charge transfer, which hinders the wide application of MOF‐derived catalyst materials in oxygen electrocatalysis. Therefore, it is necessary to directly grow MOF structures on templates with low dimensions, such as 1D nanowires or 2D graphite sheets, to develop electrocatalysts with continuous heterostructures, which can avoid the aggregation of nanocrystals to a huge extent during pyrolysis and consequently improve the charge‐ transfer process.[50](#page-10-4)

In this study, ZIF‐67 dodecahedral crystals were first successfully grown on the surface of Ag@C nanocables (NCs) using a facile coordination‐modulated approach to obtain Ag@C@ZIF. Then, Ag@C@ZIF was calcined under different atmospheres (NH3 or N2/H2) to obtain hierarchically structured NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 and N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450, respectively, in which ZIF‐derived 3D Co/carbon composites were coupled with 1D Ag@C NCs. On the one hand, direct growth of ZIF‐67 crystals on the surface of the Ag@C NCs can largely avoid the aggregation of ZIF‐67 crystals during calcination. On the other hand, strong coupling of 1D Ag@C NCs with ZIF‐67‐derived nanocrystals results in more dispersive active sites and faster charge transfer to improve the ORR activity. Additionally, because of good conductivity, the Ag nanowires inside can boost electron transport during catalysis. The half‐wave potential (E1/2) of the obtained NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 was 0.88 V versus RHE in a 0.1 M KOH electrolyte, which is comparable to that of Pt/C (0.88 V vs. RHE) and 30 mV higher than that of N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450 (0.85 V vs. RHE). The enhanced ORR activity of the NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 catalyst results from the rich electrochemical active sites and synergistic interaction between Ag and Co in the hierarchical beads‐on‐string structures.

## <span id="page-2-0"></span>2 | EXPERIMENTAL SECTION

# 2.1 | Materials synthesis

# 2.1.1 | Synthesis of Ag@C NCs

Ag@C NCs were prepared using a solvothermal method. In a typical synthesis, 1.2 g of glycerol was dispersed in 30 mL of 0.5 M sulfuric acid solution and stirred for 0.5 h. Then, 0.218 g of silver nitrate was added to the above transparent mixed solution and stirred for another 0.5 h to obtain a homogeneous solution. The mixture was then sealed in a 50 mL Teflon-lined autoclave and maintained at 180°C in an oven for 10 h. The as-synthesized product was thoroughly washed with deionized water and alcohol and collected by centrifugation, followed by drying.

# 2.1.2 | Synthesis of Ag@C@ZIF

First, 200 mg of cobalt nitrate hexahydrate was dissolved in 5 mL of methanol. Then, the solution was added into 10 mL of methanol solution containing 20 mg of Ag@C and 60 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) and stirred for 30 min. Finally, 10 mL of a methanol solution containing 400 mg of dimethylimidazole was added dropwise to the above mixed solution under stirring. After 2 h, the stirring was stopped and the product of Ag@C@ZIF was collected by centrifugation and washed with ethanol and dried at 40°C.

# 2.1.3 | Synthesis of $N_2$ / $H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 and $NH_3$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-700

The conversion of Ag@C@ZIF into  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 or  $NH_3$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 was performed by pyrolysis at 450°C under an  $N_2/H_2$  flow or at 700°C under an  $NH_3$  flow, respectively. For the synthesis of  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, as-prepared Ag@C@ZIF was annealed under an  $N_2/H_2$  flow at 450°C for 30 min at a heating rate of 3°C min<sup>-1</sup>, yielding the final product of  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450. The synthesis of  $NH_3$ -Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 was performed under similar synthesis conditions as described above, except that the temperature was maintained at 700°C with  $NH_3$  gas flow.

# 2.2 | Physical characterizations

Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM; SU8010; Hitachi Ltd.) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM; JEM 2100 operating at 15 kV) were used to examine

the morphology and structure of the samples. The composition of the sample was analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) on an ESCALAB250Xi instrument. Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) was used to identify the crystal structure of the as-synthesized catalysts using an X'Pert3 Powder instrument.

### 2.3 | Electrochemical measurements

A standard three-compartment electrochemical cell was used for electrochemical characterizations with N2- or O2saturated 0.1 M KOH as the electrolyte on a CHI 760E electrochemical workstation (Shanghai Chenhua) at room temperature. In the three-electrode electrochemical system, a saturated calomel electrode (SCE), a glass carbon rotating disc electrode (disk diameter: 5 mm) coated with active materials, and a graphite rod were used as the reference electrode, the working electrode, and the counter electrode, respectively. To obtain homogeneous catalyst ink, 2 mg of catalyst materials and 1 mg of carbon black were dispersed into 485 µL of isopropanol and 15 µL of Nafion solution (5 wt%). The ink solution was then sonicated for 30 min to obtain a uniform suspension. Next, 35 µL of the catalyst ink was deposited dropwise onto the glass carbon electrode and dried at room temperature (713 µg cm<sup>-2</sup> of loading amount). For comparison, Pt/C was used as a reference. In our study, all potentials were measured against the SCE reference electrode and converted into the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) reference scale using equation E (RHE) = E (SCE) + 0.059 pH + 0.242. The LSV curves were constructed at different rotation speeds of 400, 625, 900, 1225, 1600, and 2025 rpm at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. By testing the chronoamperometry (i-t) curve at 0.83 V versus RHE at 900 rpm, the durability was determined. The H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield was calculated from the polarization curves harvested by rotating ring-disk electrode with the same loading amount and 37% ring current collection efficiency (N) according to the following equations:

$$\mathrm{HO_2^{-}\%} = 200I_{\mathrm{r}}/N(I_{\mathrm{d}} + I_{\mathrm{r}}/N),$$
 
$$n = 4I_{\mathrm{d}}/(I_{\mathrm{d}} + I_{\mathrm{r}}/N),$$

where  $I_d$  and  $I_r$  are the disk and ring current, respectively.

## 3 | RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

The synthetic procedure for  $NH_3$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 is shown in Figure 1. The Ag@C NCs were first prepared using a hydrothermal method (see Section 2). A methanol solution containing

<span id="page-3-0"></span>FIGURE 1 Schematic of the synthesis of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 and N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450 catalysts. NWs represent nanowires

cobalt nitrate hexahydrate and PVP was quickly mixed with Ag@C NCs to form a uniform dispersion, in which PVP was used as a surfactant. Then, a methanol solution containing 2‐methylimidazole (2‐MeIM) was added to the mixed solution drop by drop and stirred well. During the coordination reaction, dodecahedral ZIF‐67 crystals nucleate and crystallize on the surface of Ag@C NCs, yielding Ag@C@ZIF with beads‐on‐string structures. Finally, the as‐prepared Ag@C@ZIF was calcinated under an NH3 or N2/H2 atmosphere to obtain the final catalysts, denoted NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 or N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450 catalysts, respectively.

The morphology of the prepared catalysts was determined by SEM and TEM. The SEM and TEM images of Ag@C NCs (Figure [2A,B](#page-4-0), and Figure S1A) show that the as‐prepared Ag@C NCs have a Ag core and a thin carbon shell, with diameters of about 80 nm and 20 nm, respectively. The XRD patterns of Ag@C NCs (Figure S2) show three diffraction peaks located at 44.3°, 66.4°, and 77.5°, which can be attributed to (200), (220), and (311) planes of metallic Ag (PDF # 04‐0783), respectively. After the growth of ZIF‐67, dodecahedral ZIF‐67 nanocrystals with a diameter of about 600 nm were uniformly anchored on Ag@C NCs to form beads‐ on‐string structures of Ag@C@ZIF (Figure [2C,D](#page-4-0) and Figure S1B). The XRD patterns in Figure S2 reveal that in addition to the Ag peaks from the Ag@C NCs, the characteristic peaks belonging to ZIF‐67 crystals are also observed, indicating the successful growth of ZIF‐67 crystals on Ag@C NCs. As for N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐ 450, which was synthesized by pyrolyzing Ag@C@ZIF under an N2/H2 flow at 450°C, the 1D beads‐on‐string structures are well retained (Figure [2E,F](#page-4-0)). However, in these structures, dodecahedron ZIF‐67 crystals were transformed into a polyhedral carbon skeleton with CNTs growing on the surface (Figure S1C). On changing the N2/H2 flow into an NH3 flow at 700°C, the obtained NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 also showed 1D beads‐on‐ string structures, but the dodecahedral ZIF‐67 crystals were transformed into a polyhedral carbon skeleton with a rough surface made up of small particles (Figure [2G,H\)](#page-4-0). The TEM image of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 also shows the polyhedral carbon skeleton with embedded nanoparticles wrapped around the Ag@C nanocables (Figure S1D).

The crystal structures of these catalysts were verified by XRD. The XRD patterns for NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐ 700 and N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450 are shown in Figure [3A.](#page-5-0) There are three main diffraction peaks at 44.2°, 51.5°, and 75.9°, which belong to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of metallic Co (PDF # 15‐0806), respectively. This result reveals that metallic Co was generated during the pyrolysis of Ag@C@ZIF. Figure [3B](#page-5-0) shows that after pyrolyzing Ag@C@ZIF at 700°C under an NH3 atmosphere, the growth of polyhedral carbon skeletons with rough surfaces made up of small particles was observed on top of the Ag@C nanocables. From the high‐resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of NH3–Ag@C@- Co–N–C‐700 (Figure [3C\)](#page-5-0), lattice fringe spacings of 0.21 and 0.17 nm were found, which can be attributed to the (111) and (200) planes of Co, respectively. These lattice fringes are consistent with the XRD result. We also observed the presence of a graphitized carbon layer around the Co nanoparticles, which is due to the fact that Co can catalyze carbon graphitization.[49](#page-10-2) As shown in scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) elemental mapping images (Figure [3D,E](#page-5-0)), Ag was evenly distributed throughout the nanowire, while Co, N, and C

<span id="page-4-0"></span>FIGURE 2 SEM images of (A,B) Ag@C NCs, (C,D) Ag@C@ZIF, (E,F) N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, and (G,H) NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700; the scale bars in (A,C,E,G) and (B,D,F,H) are 500 and 200 nm, respectively. NC, nanocable; SEM, scanning electron microscopy.

elements were homogeneously distributed along the Ag nanowire. The distribution of Co, C, and N elements indicated that the ZIF-67 crystals successfully grew on the surface of the Ag@C nanocables. Furthermore, structural and elemental distributions N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 were examined. Figure 3F shows that after pyrolyzing Ag@C@ZIF at 450°C under an N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub> atmosphere, the growth of CNTs was observed on top of the Ag@C nanocables. As shown in Figure 3G, the nanoparticle embedded into the nanotube is assigned to Co, as the lattice fringe spacing of the nanoparticle is 0.21 nm, which corresponds to the (111) plane of metallic Co. The STEM mapping images of N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-450 (Figure 3H,I) show that Ag elements are evenly distributed throughout the nanowire, while Co, N, and C elements that resulted from the pyrolysis of the ZIF-67 crystals are uniformly distributed along the Ag nanowires.

The chemical composition of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 was identified by XPS. C, Ag, N, O, and Co elements were detected in both NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, as shown in Figure 4A. Interestingly, NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 shows a much higher atomic content of Ag (1.94 at%) than  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (0.47 at%), which indicates higher surface exposure of Ag, possibly due to the carbon-etching effect under the hightemperature NH<sub>3</sub> treatment. High-resolution Ag 3d XPS spectra of these two catalysts are shown in Figure 4B. For  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, two peaks at 368.5 and

374.5 eV are attributed to Ag  $3d_{3/2}$  and Ag  $3d_{5/2}$  of metallic Ag,<sup>51</sup> respectively. Also, the spin-orbit splitting of the 3d doublet for Ag 3d XPS spectra is 6 eV, confirming the presence of Ag<sup>0</sup>. We observed that the deconvolved peaks of Ag 3d<sub>3/2</sub> and 3d<sub>5/2</sub> for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 shifted to lower binding energies by about 0.2 eV. This negative shift is possibly due to Ag/Co junctions, in which electrons transfer from Co species to exposed Ag nanowires. Figure 4C shows the high-resolution Co 2p XPS spectra for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-450. For NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, there are two pairs of  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  doublets due to deconvolution of the Co 2p XPS spectrum, which are assigned to Co<sup>0</sup> (778.6/793.7 eV) and Co<sup>2+</sup> (780.6/796.5 eV), respectively. Similarly, the Co 2p XPS spectrum of N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-450 can be deconvolved into two pairs of 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and  $2p_{1/2}$  doublets, which correspond to  $Co^{3+}$  (779.1/795.5 eV) and Co<sup>2+</sup> (781.1/797.4 eV), respectively. The presence of higher oxidation states Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> confirms the existence of a strong electronic interaction between Ag and Co in the beads-on-string structures.

As the specific surface area and pore structure of electrocatalysts play a vital role in the charge-transfer process, the N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherms for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 were analyzed to evaluate their specific surface area and pore size distribution. As shown in Figure 4D, NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 shows a high Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area of 277.5 m<sup>2</sup>/g, which is larger than that of  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (148.0 m<sup>2</sup>/g).

<span id="page-5-0"></span>FIGURE 3 (A) XRD patterns of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 and N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450. (B) TEM image of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700. (C) HRTEM image of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700. (D) STEM and (E) the corresponding elemental mapping images of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700. (F) TEM image of N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450. (G) HRTEM image of N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450: The nanoparticle and carbon layers are shown by white and red dashes, respectively. (H) STEM and (I) the corresponding elemental mapping images of N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450. HRTEM, high‐resolution transmission electron microscope; STEM, scan transmission electron microscope; TEM, transmission electron microscope; XRD, X‐ray diffraction.

The higher surface area promoted sufficient exposure of active sites[,46,52](#page-10-1) which facilitated a fast mass transfer process[.53](#page-10-6) Besides, from the pore size distribution (Figure [4D](#page-6-0), the inset), it is clear that the pore size of NH3–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐700 is in the range of 2–5 nm, while N2/H2–Ag@C@Co–N–C‐450 shows a wider pore size distribution in the range of 2–60 nm. The discrepancy in the surface area and pore structure between

26379638, 2023, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cey2.233 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rerms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>FIGURE 4 (A) XPS spectra for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450. (B) Ag 3d and (C) Co 2p XPS spectra for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450. (D) Nitrogen sorption/desorption isotherms and the corresponding pore size distributions (inset). XPS, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy.

NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 may have resulted from differences in the morphologies due to the different temperatures of pyrolysis.

The ORR activities of NH3-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 were first evaluated in 0.1 M KOH electrolytes by cyclic voltammetry (CV). For comparison, the ORR performance of Ag@C nanocables and commercial Pt/C was also evaluated under the same testing conditions. Additionally, various pyrolysis temperatures were used to optimize the performances of the prepared catalysts (Figure S4 and Table S1). Figure 5A shows the CV results of the synthesized samples in N<sub>2</sub>and O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolytes. In N<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolytes, all samples showed similar CV curves without any reduction peaks. After the electrolytes were saturated with O2, significant oxygen reduction cathodic peaks could be observed, which indicates that the synthesized catalysts are electrocatalytically active for ORR. The cathodic peaks of NH3-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 (the red line) and  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (the blue line) are located at 0.86 and 0.82 V versus RHE, respectively. When compared to Ag@C nanocables (0.66 V vs. RHE), higher ORR activities were achieved on NH3-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 electrodes. The enhanced ORR performance could have resulted from the cooperation of 3D carbon-based skeleton structures derived from ZIF-67 crystals. Furthermore, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) at 1600 rpm was performed to evaluate electrocatalytic activities towards ORR (Figure 5B and Figure S4). The corresponding polarization curves show that both NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/ H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 have higher ORR activities than the Ag@C nanocables, as evidenced by their higher onset potentials ( $E_{\text{onset}} = 0.99$  and 0.95 V vs. RHE, respectively) and half-wave potentials ( $E_{1/2} = 0.88$  and  $0.85 \,\mathrm{V}$  vs. RHE, respectively) than those of the Ag@C nanocables ( $E_{onset}$  = 0.89 V vs. RHE and  $E_{1/2} = 0.70$  V vs. RHE). Along with the enhanced half-wave potential, NH3-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 also shows a limiting current of 5.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (5.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). This electrocatalytic performance is strongly comparable to that of commercial Pt/C. Additionally, comparisons with Co-N-C catalysts derived from pure ZIF-67 were also performed to determine the positive effect of the Ag@C structure inside (Figure S4 and Table S1). For NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, the higher ORR activity can mainly be attributed to the following factors: (1) the electronic interaction between Ag and Co active species that induces delocalized electron density around Ag sites, improving the charge transfer for ORR, (2) the fact that hierarchical structured NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, coupling of Co

26379388, 2023. 2. Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cey2.235 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [060121026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rerms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-7-0"></span>FIGURE 5 (A) CV curves for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 (red lines), N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (purple lines), and Ag@C (orange lines) in N<sub>2</sub>- (dashed line) and O<sub>2</sub>-saturated (solid line) 0.1 M KOH at a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (B) LSV curves for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, Ag@C NCs, and Pt/C electrodes in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 1600 rpm. (C) ORR Tafel plots for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, Ag@C NCs, and Pt/C. (D) The comparison of  $E_{1/2}$  and Tafel slopes for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, Ag@C, N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, and Pt/C. (E) ORR polarization curves of the NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 electrode at various rotation speeds. (F) Chronoamperograms of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700, N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, and Pt/C electrodes at 0.83 V versus RHE. CV, cyclic voltammetry; LSV, linear sweep voltammetry; NC, nanocable; ORR, oxygen reduction reaction.

nanoparticle-embedded 3D carbon with 1D Ag@C nanocables, has a larger specific surface area compared with  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450, which potentially offers more electrochemically active sites for ORR electrocatalysis.

Tafel plots are constructed to evaluate the reaction kinetics of catalysts, and a smaller Tafel slope suggests faster reaction kinetics of the electrocatalytic process. The Tafel slope of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 was found to be 63 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 5C), which is lower than those of N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (66 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Ag@C (108 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and similar to that of Pt/C (54 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), further demonstrating the excellent ORR activity of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700. Moreover, the

Tafel slopes and half-wave potentials of different catalysts are compared in Figure 5D. The lower Tafel slope and the higher half-wave potential for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 indicate that it has better ORR activity than N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 and Ag@C catalysts. The improved ORR kinetics of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 results from its structural superiority due to the synergistic effect of different components. The LSV curves at various rotation speeds for NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 and the corresponding K-L plots are shown in Figure 5E and Figure S3B, respectively. The electron transfer number (*n*) of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 toward ORR, calculated from K-L plots, is close to 4, indicating an obvious reduction from oxygen to OH<sup>-</sup> by a

four-electron path. The results calculated according to the produced HO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> are also in good agreement, revealing n values within 3.91-3.98 and a low  $H_2O_2$  yield below 4.5% in a wide potential range (Figure S5). ORR stability is another critical factor that can be used to evaluate ORR performance. The stability of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N2/H2-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 was examined by conducting chronoamperometric measurements at 0.83 V versus RHE, in which Pt/C was used as the control electrode (Figure 5F). After 10 h of chronoamperometric testing, NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 showed less current loss (10.6%) than  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 (17.4%) and Pt/C (30.1%), indicative of the higher stability of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700. The higher stability of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 highlights its stable beadson-string hierarchical structure under a continuous oxygen reduction process. In addition, chronoamperometry tests were conducted to examine the long-term stability of NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 towards methanol oxidation. Specifically, the tolerance of NH3-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 to methanol crossover was measured by the addition of 3 M methanol in the tested 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (Figures S6-10). NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 revealed high tolerance to methanol poisoning, with a small decrease of current density. In contrast, a significant decay in current density was observed for the Pt/C electrode.

### 4 | CONCLUSION

In summary, we prepared NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and N<sub>2</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 catalysts with beads-onstring hierarchical structures by in situ stringing ZIF-67 crystals on Ag@C nanocables. Compared to pristine Ag@C nanocables, the improved ORR performance of the  $NH_3$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 and  $N_2/H_2$ -Ag@C@-Co-N-C-450 catalysts is owing to the multi-active sites of Co/Ag and their synergistic coupling, as well as the efficient electron transfer pathways within the beadson-string structures. The higher ORR activity of  $NH_3$ -Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 when compared with  $N_2$ / H<sub>2</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-450 is mainly due to its larger specific surface area and enhanced Ag/Co electronic interaction, which induces delocalized electron density on Ag active sites. Due to its integrative beads-on-string structure, the NH<sub>3</sub>-Ag@C@Co-N-C-700 catalyst also shows high stability, with a small current loss of 10.6% at 0.83V versus RHE for 10 h. Moreover, NH3-Ag@C@-Co-N-C-700 shows a higher tolerance to methanol poisoning as compared to the commercial Pt/C catalyst, demonstrating its superiority as a low-cost alternative for practical fuel cell applications.

### **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

This study was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. 51922008, 52072114, and 51872075), the 111 Project (grant no. D17007), the Henan Center for Outstanding Overseas Scientists (grant no. GZS2022017), and Xinxiang Major Science and Technology Projects (grant no. 21ZD001).

#### CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

#### ORCID

Zhengyu Bai http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8611-3003

#### REFERENCES

- <span id="page-8-0"></span> Li Z, Zhuang Z, Lv F, et al. The marriage of the FeN<sub>4</sub> moiety and MXene boosts oxygen reduction catalysis: Fe 3d electron delocalization matters. *Adv Mater*. 2018;30(43):1803220.
- Fan X, Zhou Y, Jin X, Song R-B, Li Z, Zhang Q. Carbon material-based anodes in the microbial fuel cells. *Carbon Energy*. 2021;3(3):449-472.
- Liu M, Wang L, Zhao K, et al. Atomically dispersed metal catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction: synthesis characterization reaction mechanisms and electrochemical energy applications. *Energy Environ Sci.* 2019;12(10):2890-2923.
- Yang F, Gao X, Xie J, Liu X, Jiang J, Lu X. Cobalt-based electrocatalysts as air cathodes in rechargeable Zn-air batteries: advances and challenges. Small Struct. 2021;2(12): 2100144.
- 5. Xu N, Zhang Y, Zhang T, Liu Y, Qiao J. Efficient quantum dots anchored nanocomposite for highly active ORR/OER electrocatalyst of advanced metal-air batteries. *Nano Energy*. 2019;57:176-185.
- 6. Liu Z, Zhao Z, Wang Y, et al. In situ exfoliated edge-rich oxygen-functionalized graphene from carbon fibers for oxygen electrocatalysis. *Adv Mater.* 2017;29(18):1606207.
- Kuang X, Luo Y, Kuang R, et al. Metal-organic framework nanofibers derived Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>-doped carbon-nitrogen nanosheet arrays for high efficiency electrocatalytic oxygen evolution. *Carbon*. 2018;137:433-441.
- 8. Liu L, Zeng G, Chen J, Bi L, Dai L, Wen Z. N-doped porous carbon nanosheets as pH-universal ORR electrocatalyst in various fuel cell devices. *Nano Energy*. 2018;49:393-402.
- 9. Gao S, Fan B, Feng R, et al. N-doped-carbon-coated  $Fe_3O_4$  from metal-organic-framework as efficient electrocatalyst for ORR. *Nano Energy*. 2017;40:462-470.
- Zhu W, Zhang T, Zhang Y, et al. A practical-oriented NiFebased water-oxidation catalyst enabled by ambient redox and hydrolysis co-precipitation strategy. *Appl Catal B.* 2019;244: 844-852.
- <span id="page-8-1"></span> Kim C, Dionigi F, Beermann V, Wang X, Möller T, Strasser P. Alloy nanocatalysts for the electrochemical oxygen reduction (ORR) and the direct electrochemical carbon dioxide reduction reaction (CO<sub>2</sub>RR). Adv Mater. 2019;31(31):1805617.
- <span id="page-8-2"></span>12. Fu J, Hassan FM, Zhong C, et al. Defect engineering of chalcogen-tailored oxygen electrocatalysts for rechargeable

- quasi‐solid‐state zinc‐air batteries. Adv Mater. 2017;29(35): 1702526.
- 13. Tang C, Zhang Q. Nanocarbon for oxygen reduction electrocatalysis: dopants edges and defects. Adv Mater. 2017;29(13): 1604103.
- 14. Wang B, Wang X, Zou J, et al. Simple‐cubic carbon frameworks with atomically dispersed iron dopants toward high‐efficiency oxygen reduction. Nano Lett. 2017;17(3):2003‐2009.
- <span id="page-9-0"></span>15. Jeon TY, Yu SH, Yoo SJ, Park HY, Kim SK. Electrochemical determination of the degree of atomic surface roughness in Pt‐Ni alloy nanocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction. Carbon Energy. 2021;3(2):375‐383.
- 16. Ma Z, Cano ZP, Yu A, et al. Enhancing oxygen reduction activity of pt‐based electrocatalysts: from theoretical mechanisms to practical methods. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2020;59(42): 18334‐18348.
- 17. Rao P, Luo J, Li J, et al. One‐dimensional PtFe hollow nanochains for the efficient oxygen reduction reaction. Carbon Energy. 2022;4(6):1003‐1010.
- 18. Wang J, Liu W, Luo G, et al. Synergistic effect of well‐defined dual sites boosting the oxygen reduction reaction. Energy Environ Sci. 2018;11(12):3375‐3379.
- <span id="page-9-1"></span>19. Wang H, Li W, Zhu Z, et al. Fabrication of an N‐doped mesoporous bio‐carbon electrocatalyst efficient in Zn–air batteries by an in situ gas‐foaming strategy. Chem Commun. 2019;55(100):15117‐15120.
- 20. Zhang H, Chung HT, Cullen DA, et al. High‐performance fuel cell cathodes exclusively containing atomically dispersed iron active sites. Energy Environ Sci. 2019;12(8):2548‐2558.
- 21. Wu M, Zhang G, Hu Y, et al. Graphitic‐shell encapsulated FeNi alloy/nitride nanocrystals on biomass‐derived N‐doped carbon as an efficient electrocatalyst for rechargeable Zn‐air battery. Carbon Energy. 2021;3(1):176‐187.
- <span id="page-9-2"></span>22. Shi Y, Lee C, Tan X, et al. Atomic‐level metal electrodeposition: synthetic strategies applications and catalytic mechanism in electrochemical energy conversion. Small Struct. 2022;3(3): 2100185.
- 23. Han Y, Wu Y, Li T, Khenata R, Yang T, Wang X. Electronic structure engineering to boost oxygen reduction activity by controlling the coordination of the central metal. Energy Environ Sci. 2018;11(9):2348‐2352.
- 24. Yang J, Li W, Wang D, Li Y. Single‐atom materials: small structures determine macroproperties. Small Struct. 2021;2: 2000051.
- 25. Yan X, Jia Y, Wang K, et al. Controllable synthesis of Fe–N4 species for acidic oxygen reduction. Carbon Energy. 2020;2(3): 452‐460.
- <span id="page-9-3"></span>26. Ma Y, Li J, Liao X, et al. Heterostructure design in bimetallic phthalocyanine boosts oxygen reduction reaction activity and durability. Adv Funct Mater. 2020;30(50):2005000.
- 27. Li J, Li G, Wang J, et al. A novel core–double shell heterostructure derived from a metal‐organic framework for efficient HER OER and ORR electrocatalysis. Inorg Chem Front. 2020;7(1):191‐197.
- <span id="page-9-4"></span>28. Yan L, Xu Y, Chen P, et al. A freestanding 3D heterostructure film stitched by MOF‐derived carbon nanotube microsphere superstructure and reduced graphene oxide sheets: a superior multifunctional electrode for overall water splitting and Zn‐air batteries. Adv Mater. 2020;32(48):2003313.

- <span id="page-9-5"></span>29. Zheng Y, Li Y, Wu T, et al. Controlling crystal orientation in multilayered heterostructures toward high electro‐catalytic activity for oxygen reduction reaction. Nano Energy. 2019;62: 521‐529.
- 30. Zhang Z, Liang X, Li J, et al. Interfacial engineering of NiO/ NiCo2O4 porous nanofibers as efficient bifunctional catalysts for rechargeable zinc‐air batteries. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020;12(19):21661‐21669.
- 31. Diao J, Qiu Y, Liu S, et al. Interfacial engineering of W2N/WC heterostructures derived from solid‐state synthesis: a highly efficient trifunctional electrocatalyst for ORR OER and HER. Adv Mater. 2020;32(7):1905679.
- 32. Bach LG, Thi MLN, Bui QB, Nhac‐Vu HT. Palladium sulfide nanoparticles attached MoS2/nitrogen‐doped graphene heterostructures for efficient oxygen reduction reaction. Synth Met. 2019;254:172‐179.
- <span id="page-9-6"></span>33. Zhang H, Liu M, Cheng W, et al. Metallic Ni3N quantum dots as a synergistic promoter for NiO nanosheet toward efficient oxygen reduction electrocatalysis. J Phys Chem C. 2019;123(14):8633‐8639.
- 34. Ye H, Li L, Liu D, et al. Sustained‐release method for the directed synthesis of ZIF‐derived ultrafine Co–N–C ORR catalysts with embedded Co quantum dots. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020;12(52):57847‐57858.
- <span id="page-9-7"></span>35. Miao Q, Yang S, Xu Q, et al. Constructing synergistic Zn‐N4 and Fe‐N4O dual‐sites from the COF@MOF derived hollow carbon for oxygen reduction reaction. Small Struct. 2022;3(4):2100225.
- 36. Zhang S, Xia W, Yang Q, et al. Core‐shell motif construction: highly graphitic nitrogen‐doped porous carbon electrocatalysts using MOF‐derived carbon@COF heterostructures as sacrificial templates. Chem Eng J. 2020;396:125154.
- <span id="page-9-8"></span>37. Li Y, Feng Y, Li L, et al. PBA@PPy derived N‐doped mesoporous carbon nanocages embedded with FeCo alloy nanoparticles for enhanced performance of oxygen reduction reaction. J Alloys Compd. 2020;823:153892.
- 38. Zhang Q, Liu P, Fu X, et al. Hierarchical architecture of well‐ aligned nanotubes supported bimetallic catalysis for efficient oxygen redox. Adv Funct Mater. 2022;32(22):2112805.
- 39. Zhu T, Zhang J, Tang C. Metal‐organic framework‐derived Fe/ Cu‐substituted Co nanoparticles embedded in CNTs‐grafted carbon polyhedron for Zn‐air batteries. Carbon Energy. 2020;2(2):283‐293.
- <span id="page-9-9"></span>40. Chen Y, Cai Z, Kuru Y, Ma W, Tuller HL, Yildiz B. Electronic activation of cathode superlattices at elevated temperatures‐ source of markedly accelerated oxygen reduction kinetics. Adv Energy Mater. 2013;3(9):1221‐1229.
- 41. Stämmler S, Merkle R, Stuhlhofer B, et al. Phase constitution Sr distribution and morphology of self‐assembled La‐Sr‐Co‐O composite films prepared by PLD. Solid State Ion. 2017;303: 172‐180.
- 42. Ma W, Kim JJ, Tsvetkov N, et al. Vertically aligned nanocomposite La0.8Sr0.2CoO3/(La0.5Sr0.5)2CoO4 cathodes‐ electronic structure surface chemistry and oxygen reduction kinetics. J Mater Chem A. 2015;3(1):207‐219.
- 43. Lee D, Lee YL, Hong WT, Biegalski MD, Morgan D, Shao‐ Horn Y. Oxygen surface exchange kinetics and stability of (LaSr)2CoO4±δ/La1<sup>−</sup>xSrxMO3<sup>−</sup><sup>δ</sup> (M = Co and Fe) hetero‐ interfaces at intermediate temperatures. J Mater Chem A. 2015;3(5):2144‐2157.

- 44. Pan S, Li J, Wen Z, et al. Halide perovskite materials for photo (electro)chemical applications: dimensionality, heterojunction, and performance. Adv Energy Mater. 2022;12(4):2004002.
- <span id="page-10-0"></span>45. Yang L, Lv Y, Cao D. Co N‐codoped nanotube/graphene 1D/ 2D heterostructure for efficient oxygen reduction and hydrogen evolution reactions. J Mater Chem A. 2018;6(9):3926‐3932.
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>46. Huang X, Shen T, Zhang T, et al. Efficient oxygen reduction catalysts of porous carbon nanostructures decorated with transition metal species. Adv Energy Mater. 2020;10(11):1900375.
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>47. Peera SG, Balamurugan J, Kim NH, Lee JH. Sustainable synthesis of Co@NC core shell nanostructures from metal‐ organic frameworks via mechanochemical coordination self‐ assembly: an efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction. Small. 2018;14(19):1800441.
- 48. Zhang W, Yao X, Zhou S, et al. ZIF‐8/ZIF‐67‐derived Co‐Nx‐ embedded 1D porous carbon nanofibers with graphitic carbon‐encased Co nanoparticles as an efficient bifunctional electrocatalyst. Small. 2018;14(24):1800423.
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>49. Lu XF, Xia BY, Zang S‐Q, Lou XW. Metal‐organic frameworks based electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2020;59(12):4634‐4650.
- <span id="page-10-4"></span>50. Ahn SH, Yu X, Manthiram A. "Wiring" Fe‐Nx‐embedded porous carbon framework onto 1D nanotubes for efficient oxygen reduction reaction in alkaline and acidic media. Adv Mater. 2017;29(26):1606534.
- <span id="page-10-5"></span>51. Wang Y, Sun Y, Chen D, Zhang X, Guo L, Wang R. Molecular tilting alignment on Ag@C nanocubes monitored by

- temperature‐dependent surface enhanced Raman scattering. Sci Rep. 2017;7:12865.
- 52. Zhong H, Shi C, Li J, et al. Cobalt decorated nitrogen‐ doped carbon bowls as efficient electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction. Chem Commun. 2020;56(32): 4488‐4491.
- <span id="page-10-6"></span>53. Wang B, Tao N, Liu J, et al. Spindle spinel CoFeCoO4 microparticles/rGO as an oxygen reduction and oxygen evolution catalyst. Nano. 2019;14(04):1950043.
- <span id="page-10-7"></span>54. Zhang B, Fu G, Li Y, et al. General strategy for synthesis of ordered Pt3M intermetallics with ultrasmall particle size. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2020;59(20):7857‐7863.

### SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of this article.

How to cite this article: Yuan Y, Zhang Q, Li Y, et al. Beads‐on‐string hierarchical structured electrocatalysts for efficient oxygen reduction reaction. Carbon Energy. 2023;5:e253. [doi:10.1002/cey2.253](https://doi.org/10.1002/cey2.253)