---
source: Zhang 等 - 2019 - A Low‐Cost and Facile Method for the Preparation of Fe‐NC‐Based Hybrids with Superior Catalytic Per.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 8.252s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:57:22.790742Z
---

**Carbon Nanocomposites**

# **A Low-Cost and Facile Method for the Preparation of Fe-N/C-Based Hybrids with Superior Catalytic Performance toward Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Yanpei Zhang, Nan Wang, Ning Jia, Jing Wang, Jie Sun, Feng Shi, Zong-Huai Liu, and Ruibin Jiang\**

**Fe-N-doped graphitic carbon materials exhibit high efficiency and durability for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Although iron has relatively low price, the precursors for carbon and nitrogen used in previous studies have relatively high cost. Here reported is the preparation of highly efficient Fe-N/C-based ORR electrocatalysts by use of low-cost urea as the precursors. Fe-N/C-based hybrids are prepared through a two-step pyrolysis. During the first-step pyrolysis, the precursors convert into g-C3N4 with Fe located into the sixfold cavities, which ensures the relatively uniform distribution of Fe. The second-step pyrolysis converts Fe-g-C3N4 into Fe-N/C-based hybrids which contain multiple types of active components, Fe moieties (FeC***x***N***y* **or FeN***x***), Fe and Fe3N nanoparticles, for ORR. The obtained Fe-N/C-based hybrids display a superior electrocatalytic performance for ORR with an onset potential of 0.940 V and half-wave potential of 0.810 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, which are comparable to those of Pt/C at the same catalyst loading. The hybrids show higher tolerance to methanol and much greater long-term stability than commercial Pt/C. The findings provide a cost-effective approach for the preparation of high efficient and stable electrocatalysts for ORR and will be very helpful to the development of electrochemical energy storage and conversion.**

# **1. Introduction**

As the global energy demand and the environmental concern are intensified, many efforts have been devoted to developing sustainable techniques for energy storage and conversion, such as fuel cells, metal-air batteries, and dye-sensitized solar cells.[1,2] To obtain optimal efficiency of these renewable-energy

Y. P. Zhang, N. Wang, N. Jia, J. Wang, Dr. J. Sun, Prof. F. Shi, Prof. Z.-H. Liu, Prof. R. B. Jiang Shaanxi Key Laboratory for Advanced Energy Devices Shaanxi Engineering Lab for Advanced Energy Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Shaanxi Normal University Xi'an 710119, China E-mail: rbjiang@snnu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/admi.201900273.

**DOI: 10.1002/admi.201900273**

systems, the critical point is the development of electrocatalysts with high performance for the cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Owing to the four-electron nature, ORR often suffers from sluggish kinetics. To date, the most effective ORR electrocatalysts are platinum-based precious metals, but they suffer from many drawbacks such as high price, low natural abundance, poor durability, and severe methanol crossover effect.[3–5] Hence, the exploration of cost-effective electrocatalysts that have comparable ORR performance to Pt-based materials has been a paramount important subject of this field.

As the intensive research efforts were devoted to the development of alternative ORR electrocatalysts, a wide range of nonprecious metal catalysts have been explored, including metal-free nitrogendoped carbon (N-doped C),[4–10] nonprecious-metal oxides and carbides,[11–14] transition-metal-coordinating macrocyclic compounds,[15–17] and transition-metal/ nitrogen-doped carbon catalysts (M-N/ C).[4,5,18–27] Among these candidates, the M-N/C materials exhibit comparable

activity to Pt-based ones because the active sites are created on the surface by the metal-nitrogen coordination.[28] Therefore, M-N/C materials are deemed to be the most promising ORR candidates. In transition metals, Fe has the highest abundance in the earth crust and thereby has the lowest price.[5,29,30] Fortunately, the Fe-N/C materials have been confirmed to have highest catalytic activity among M-N/C materials.[28] The preparation of Fe-N/C materials was mainly relied on the pyrolysis of organic precursors containing carbon and nitrogen elements in the presence of Fe salts or precursors simultaneously containing nitrogen, carbon, and Fe.[5,29] In many cases, the pyrolysis results not only in the formation of the FeC*x*N*y* and/ or FeN*x* moieties but also in the formation of Fe, Fe3N, and Fe3C nanoparticles.[19,29,31] The FeC*x*N*y* and/or FeN*x* moieties located at the surface carbon scaffold as well as the Fe, Fe3N, and Fe3C nanoparticles are generally deemed as the active sites for ORR.[19,29–33]

The precursors have been utilized to synthesize Fe-N/C materials including thiourea, phthalocyanine, polyformamidine,

melamine, and metal organic framework.[15,16,19,26] Compared to these precursors, urea has much low price and contains oxygen atom. The presence of oxygen atoms has been found to favor the formation of defect-free carbon shells on Fe nanoparticles and therefore enhances the durability of the catalysts during ORR.[31] Herein, we develop a cost-effective two-step pyrolysis method for the preparation of Fe-N/C-based hybrids using ferrous chloride and urea. During the first pyrolysis step, urea polymerizes into g-C3N4. Simultaneously, the affinity between Fe ions and amino group or oxygen atom ensures the uniform distribution of Fe in the sixfold cavities of g-C3N4. In the second pyrolysis step, g-C3N4 with Fe ions converts into Fe-N/C materials with Fe and Fe3N nanoparticles encapsulated with defect-free N-doped carbon shells. The co-existence of the three types of active components, homogeneously distributed coordinating Fe moieties (FeC*x*N*y* or FeN*x*), Fe, and Fe3N nanoparticles confined in the graphitized N-doped carbon shells, endows the Fe-N/C-based hybrids with outstanding electrocatalytic performance, including very positive onset and half-wave potentials, low Tafel slope, long-term durability, and remarkable tolerance toward methanol.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Preparation and Characterization of Fe-N/C Nanohybrids**

The low-cost ferrous chloride and urea were employed for the preparation of Fe-N/C nanohybrids through a two-step pyrolysis method (**Figure 1**). The urea and ferrous chloride were first mixed through adding ferrous chloride into urea solution under stirring. The mixture solution was then evaporated to obtain powder for subsequent pyrolysis. Owing to the strong affinity of amino groups and oxygen atom to Fe ions, Fe species can be homogeneously distributed into urea. After firststep pyrolysis at 550 °C in argon gas for 3 h, urea thermally polymerizes into g-C3N4 with Fe species located at the sixfold cavities. Since the electrocatalysis requires catalysts to have high conductivity, the Fe-g-C3N4 is then carbonized through

**Figure 1.** Schematic of the preparation of the Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids.

the second-step pyrolysis. The thermogravimetric (TG) curve shows that Fe-g-C3N4 can be carbonized at the temperature between ≈600 and ≈730 °C (Figure S1, Supporting Information). We therefore chose 650 °C for the second-step pyrolysis. During the second-step pyrolysis, the Fe-g-C3N4 converts into Fe- and N-doped graphitic carbon together with Fe and Fe3N nanoparticles coated with N-doped graphitic shells. The powder obtained in the second-step pyrolysis was finally washed with chloride acid to remove Fe and Fe3N nanoparticles coated with defective carbon shells. After acid washing, Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids were obtained, which contain several types of ORR active sites, including FeC*x*N*y* and/ or FeN*x* moieties, Fe, and Fe3N nanoparticles coated with defect-free N-doped graphitic carbon shells.

**Figure 2**a shows the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns taken on the samples obtained in the first- and second-step pyrolysis. The product obtained in the first-step pyrolysis exhibits a strong diffraction peak at around 27.4°, which arises from the

**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns and b) Raman spectra of Fe-g-C3N4 and Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids.

diffraction from (002) facets of g-C3N4 (JCPDS 87–1526). The lack of diffraction peak around 13.5°, which corresponds to the diffraction from the (100) facet of g-C3N4 and reflects the in-plane structural packing motif of the hetazine units, should arise from the beak of the in-plane periodicity induced by Fe species. No other diffraction peaks can be observed, indicating that no other crystalline products are formed. Hence, the product obtained in the first-step pyrolysis should be g-C3N4 with Fe species located into the sixfold cavities, which is named as Fe-g-C3N4. After second-step calcination at 650 °C for 3 h, two strong peaks at 44.6° and 43.8° and one weak peak at 26.3° appear on the XRD patterns. The peak at 44.6° results from the diffraction of (110) facets of α-Fe (JCPDS 65–4899). The peak at 43.8° is attributed to the diffraction of (111) facets of hexagonal <sup>ε</sup>-Fe3N (JCPDS 49–1664). The peak at 26.3° corresponds to the (002) facets of graphitized carbon (JCPDS 65–6212). Therefore, after carbonization, the Fe-g-C3N4 converts into Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids including graphitized carbon, α-Fe, and ε-Fe3N.

The Raman scattering spectra of Fe-g-C3N4 and Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids are given in Figure 2b. Before the second-step pyrolysis, Fe-g-C3N4 does not exhibit obvious signature Raman scattering peaks of graphitized carbon. In contrast, Fe-N/Cbased nanohybrids display two intense Raman scattering peaks 1346 and 1587 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , which are corresponding to disordered sp3 carbon (D band) and graphitic sp2 carbon (G band), respectively. Therefore, the second-step pyrolysis converts the g-C3N4 into graphitized carbon, which has relatively high conductivity and is thereby in favor of the electrocatalysis. The intensity ratio of the two bands (*I*D/*I*G) reflects the degree of disorder for carbons. The high *I*D/*I*G ratio means the high disorder of graphitized carbon. The *I*D/*I*G value obtained on our Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids is 1.02, indicating that there are many defects in our Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids. Since the defects generally alter the bonding nature and the local electric density of states and thereby are the catalytic active centers, the surface of catalysts with defects is more active than the defect-free sites.[34,35]

The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of the Fe-g-C3N4 is shown in **Figure 3**a. The sample has very thin layers. No Fe-related nanoparticles are observed on the TEM image, indicating that Fe may exist as single atoms or tiny

**Figure 3.** a) TEM image of Fe-g-C3N4. b) TEM image of Fe-N/C nanohybrids. c) HRTEM taken on a large nanoparticle. d) Inverse FFT image of the rectangle region shown in (c). e) Line scan of the FFT image indicated by the red line in (d), indicating a lattice spacing of 0.203 nm. f) HRTEM image taken on a small nanoparticle. g) Inverse FFT image of the rectangle region shown in (f). h) TEM image of the region for elemental mapping. i−l) Elemental maps of C, Fe, N and overlay in the same area shown in (h), respectively.

clusters located into the matrix of the g-C3N4. After carbonization, the Fe-g-C3N4 converts into nanoparticles supported on thin porous graphitic carbon layers (Figure S2, Supporting Information). After acid etching, most of nanoparticles with medium size are removed, leaving the large and small nanoparticles on thin porous graphitic carbon layers (Figure 3b). The large nanoparticles have the size of ≈50−≈100 nm, and the small nanoparticles are smaller than ≈20 nm. To identify the structure of the two types of nanoparticles, we carried out high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) characterization on the nanoparticles. Figure 3c displays the HRTEM taken on a large nanoparticle. The lattice spacing of the big nanoparticle obtained from the lattice fringes of HRTEM and the inverse fast Fourier transformation (FFT) image (Figure 3d,e) is 0.203 nm, which can be assigned to the spacing of the (110) facets of α-Fe. The large nanoparticles are therefore α-Fe nanoparticles. The lattice spacing of the smaller particles is measured to be 0.218 nm (Figure 3f,g), which corresponds to the distance between (002) facets of ε-Fe3N. Besides <sup>ε</sup>-Fe3N nanoparticles, we find that some small nanoparticles have core@shell structures (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The core is ε-Fe3N, and the shell is α-Fe. The core@shell structures are formed through the surface decomposition of <sup>ε</sup>-Fe3N nanoparticles into α-Fe, which will be discussed later. Moreover, both the large and small nanoparticles are coated by several graphitic carbon layers, reflected by the layer distance of 0.335 nm (Figure 3c,f). One should point out that the carbon

layers on the nanoparticles are defect-free because the nanoparticles coated by defective carbon layers are removed by the acid etching. The defect-free graphitic carbon coating can prevent the aggregation and etching of α-Fe and ε-Fe3N nanoparticles during electrocatalysis and thereby enhances stability of the catalysts.[15,21,31]

The energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping was utilized to study the elemental distributions of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids (Figure 3h−l). C and N are homogeneously distributed in the entire sample (Figure 3i−l), indicating the formation of N-doped carbon. Fe are mainly located in the nanoparticle regions, which is consistent with the fact that the nanoparticles are α-Fe and ε-Fe3N. Weak signal of Fe can be found in the region beyond the nanoparticles, indicating the doping of Fe in the graphitic carbon. Since the Fe species interact with N atoms in the sixfold cavities of g-C3N4 before the second-step pyrolysis, FeC*x*N*y* or FeN*x* moieties should be formed in the graphitic carbon after the carbonization. The FeC*x*N*y* or FeN*<sup>x</sup>* moieties and α-Fe and ε-Fe3N nanoparticles coated with Fe/Ndoped graphitic carbon form the electrocatalytic active center for ORR.[31,36]

The chemical composition and states of the catalysts are of particular importance and are examined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As shown in **Figure 4**a, the full XPS spectrum revealed the presence of carbon, nitrogen, iron, and oxygen consistent with the result of EDX. The O should come

**Figure 4.** a) Full, b) C 1s, c) N 1s, and d) Fe 2p XPS spectra of Fe-N/C nanohybrids.

from the surface adsorbed adventitious oxygen-containing species. XPS spectrum of C 1s of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids in Figure 4b can be deconvolved into four peaks, located at 284.5, 285.3, 286.5, and 289.0 eV. The peak at 284.5 eV is mainly contributed from the sp2-hybridized graphitic carbon atoms. The peak at 285.3 eV corresponds to the C atoms of CN. The two small peaks at 286.5 and 289.0 eV are attributed to CO/CN and CO species existing in the samples.[31,37,38] Since the peak corresponding to the C atoms of CN has relatively strong intensity, the graphitic carbon should contain relatively high N doping. Deconvolution of the high-resolution N 1s XPS spectrum yields four peaks at 398.5, 400.1, 401.3, and 404.0 eV (Figure 4c) corresponding to pyridinic, pyrrolic, graphitic nitrogen, and quaternary −N+−O<sup>−</sup>, respectively.[17,19] Since the peak of pyridinic N is dominant, our prepared Fe-N/C should have high electrocatalytic activity for ORR because pyridinic N is believed as the active site for ORR.[7,36] Figure 4d shows the deconvolved Fe 2p XPS spectra. According to previous reports,[11,31,39–41] the peaks at 706.8 and 707.7 eV can be assigned to the Fe3N and the metallic Fe, respectively. For the 2p1/2 band, the peak at 720.1 eV is attributed to the binding energy of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and the peak for Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> is observed at 723.4 eV. For the 2p3/2 band, the peaks at 710.0 and 712.3 eV are attributed to Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species, respectively. Because no iron oxides are observed on XRD and the nanohybrids are washed with acid, the existence of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> should originate from important Fe forms of FeC*x*N*y* and FeN*x*.

Since the surface area and pore structure of the materials play significant roles in the electrocatalytic performance, we therefore carried out N2 adsorption–desorption on Fe-N/C nanohybrids to study their surface area and pore structure. The N2 adsorption–desorption isotherm of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids shows a type IV curve (Figure S4, Supporting Information), indicating the existence of mesopores. The Brunauer–Emmett– Teller surface area of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids is 173 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , which is much larger than g-C3N4 and Fe-g-C3N4 (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Barrett–Joyner–Halenda pore size distribution curve derived from the N2 desorption branch indicates the existence of two types of pores. One type of pores has an average pore diameter of 3.5 nm with narrow pore size distribution, and the other type has an average pore diameter of ≈70 nm with wide pore size distribution. The large size pores arise from the bottle-like empty graphitic shells created by the leaching of the defectively encapsulated Fe or Fe3N nanoparticles. The large surface area and the two types of pores are beneficial to providing more active sites and mass transfer for ORR.[42,43]

### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Performance of Fe-N/C Nanohybrids for ORR**

Because of the desirable features including uniform distribution of multiple active sites and the easy reactant access resulting from high surface area and the porous structure, we expect that the Fe-N/C nanohybrids have a good ORR performance. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were carried out for Fe-N/C nanohybrid catalysts in both N2- or O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The CV curves present a quasirectangular double-layer capacity current in N2-saturated electrolyte. In a sharp contrast, a clear cathodic peak is observed in O2-saturated electrolyte at the potential of 0.816 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). We note that the potentials reported in the following content are all relative to the RHE. Furthermore, an oxidation peak is observed at 0.950 V in O2-saturated electrolyte, indicating that a redox reaction occurs between Fe (II) and Fe (III) in the presence of O2 during CV scanning. As a result, iron dopants in the carbon material play a role of a mediator in the electron-transfer processes during the ORR.[44] In addition, Fe-N/C nanohybrids exhibit high capacitance currents both in N2- and O2-saturated electrolytes, indicating that Fe-N/C nanohybrids have high electrochemical accessible surface area and thereby facilitate the O2 transport within catalyst layers.[18,19]

The ORR activity of Fe-N/C nanohybrids was further investigated by linear sweep voltammogram (LSV). **Figure 5**a displays the LSV of Fe-N/C nanohybrids measured at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. For comparison, the LSVs of Fe-g-C3N4 and Pt/C are also given in Figure 5a. The Fe-N/C nanohybrids show a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.810 V and an onset potential of 0.940 V, which are much more positive than those of Fe-g-C3N4. This is because the carbonization enhances the electric conductivity and increases the specific surface area. Moreover, the *E*1/2 and onset potential of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids are very close to those of Pt/C. More importantly, the ORR performance of Fe-N/C nanohybrids is also better than those of most previously reported transitionmetal/nitrogen-doped carbon catalysts,[18,19,45–47] but the cost of our Fe-N/C nanohybrids is the lowest of all of the reported Fe-N/C ORR catalysts (Figure S6, Supporting Information).

Figure 5b shows the LSV curves of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution at various rotating speeds from 400 to 2025 rpm. The limiting current density in the LSV curves increases rapidly with increasing rotation speed owing to a decreased diffusion distance at high speeds.[48] The Koutecky– Levich (K–L) plots show an excellent linearity at various potentials, and the electron-transfer numbers determined from the slopes of the K–L plots are 3.8−3.9 at potentials ranging from 0.3 to 0.7 V (Figure 5c). This suggests that oxygen is reduced through a direct four-electron pathway on Fe-N/C nanohybrids. The superior ORR activity of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids can also be revealed by the Tafel slope of 103 mV per decade very close to that of Pt/C (91 mV per decade) at low over-potential (Figure 5d).

Since the electrochemical durability and resistance to methanol crossover are of particular importance for proton exchange membrane fuel cells,[10,49] the durability and methanol tolerance of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids are evaluated. As shown in Figure 5e, the Fe-N/C nanohybrids show negligible shift of the LSV curve after 5000 continuous cycles, indicating that the nanohybrids have excellent electrochemical durability for ORR. The methanol tolerance of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids was evaluated by comparing the CV and LSV curves in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte with and without methanol (Figure 5f and Figure S7, Supporting Information). The introduction of methanol has very little effect on the CV

**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves of Fe-g-C3N4, Fe-N/C nanohybrids, and Pt/C in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH aqueous solution with a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. b) LSV curves of Fe-N/C nanohybrids measured at different rotation rates and at a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . c) Electron transfer numbers and K–L plots at different potentials based on the result of (b). d) Tafel plots of Fe-N/C nanohybrids obtained from the LSV at 1600 rpm. e) LSV curves of Fe-N/C nanohybrids before and after cycling for 5000 cycles with a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. f) LSV curves of Fe-N/C nanohybrids with and without methanol.

and LSV curves of Fe-N/C nanohybrids, suggesting that the Fe-N/C nanohybrids have superior methanol tolerance. In contrast, the addition of methanol clearly changes the CV and LSV curves of Pt/C. Hence, the Fe-N/C nanohybrids exhibit a high selectivity for ORR with a remarkable resistance to methanol crossover, and thus are superior to the commercial Pt/C catalyst.

#### **2.3. Effect of Carbonization Temperature**

The carbonization temperature can affect the graphitization level and the contents of different N atoms. We therefore studied the effect of carbonization temperature on the electrocatalytic activity of Fe-N/C nanohybrids toward ORR. Since the TG analysis indicates that the Fe-g-C3N4 can be

carbonized between ≈600 and ≈730 °C, the carbonization is therefore carried out at 600, 625, 650, and 675 °C. The obtained samples are denoted as sample-600, sample-625, sample-650, and sample-675, respectively. The TEM images of the samples obtained at different carbonization temperatures are shown in Figure S8 in the Supporting Information. As the carbonization temperature is increased, the lateral size of the carbon layer increases with the formation of tiny pores in the layer. The morphology variation of the carbon layer is consistent with the change of the Raman spectra (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The intensity ratio between D and G bands first decreases and then increases. This is because the edge states first reduce with the increase of lateral size and then increase with the formation of tiny pores in the layer. Since the increase of the lateral size of carbon layer can improve the electric conductivity and the tiny pores can provide active sites and mass-transfer channels for ORR, the catalysts prepared at high carbonization temperature may have higher electrocatalytic activity for ORR. Moreover, no nanoparticles are observed on the sample-600 and sample-625. In contrast, the sample-650 and sample-675 have uniformly distributed small nanoparticles and a few of large nanoparticles. Compared with the sample-650, the number of the large nanoparticles of the sample-675 is increased. According to HRTEM analysis, the small nanoparticles are Fe3N or (Fe3N core)@ (Fe shell) nanoparticles, and the large nanoparticles are Fe nanoparticles. The number increase of the large Fe nanoparticles may arise from the decomposition of Fe3N nanoparticles into small Fe nanoparticles and the small Fe nanoparticles further convert into large Fe nanoparticles through Ostwald ripening process at high temperature.

**Figure 6**a shows the XRD patterns of the different samples. The sample-600 only displays a broad graphite diffraction peak. The broad peak indicates that the graphitic carbon has relatively small lateral size, which is consistent with the TEM image. No other peaks indicate that Fe-based nanoparticles are not produced. For other samples, the diffraction peak from graphitic carbon becomes narrow, indicating the increase of the lateral size of the graphitic carbon. Besides the diffraction peak of graphitic carbon, the peaks from α-Fe and ε-Fe3N are observed, implying the formation of Fe and Fe3N nanoparticles. One should note here that no nanoparticles observed on the TEM of the sample-625 may arise from the fact that the formed nanoparticles at 625 °C are very few and are not present in the TEM imaging region. As the carbonization temperature is increased, the relative content of ε-Fe3N to α-Fe is reduced, reflected by the relative intensities of the diffraction peaks at 43.8° and 44.6°. Combined with the TEM, HRTEM, and XRD results, we can conclude that, at high temperature, ε-Fe3N nanoparticles decompose into α-Fe nanoparticles through (Fe3N core)@ (Fe shell) nanostructures and Ostwald ripening.

The N contents and types play a critical role for electrocatalytic activity toward ORR, and they change with the carbonization temperature.[3,7,8] In order to investigate the N contents and types, we therefore carried out XPS characterization on the samples obtained at different carbonization temperatures (Figure 6b,c). The sample before carbonization and sample-600 only contain pyridinic and pyrrolic N. The sample-625 has pyridinic, pyrrolic, and graphitic N. The N types in the sample-650 and sample-675 are pyridinic, pyrrolic, and graphitic N as well as quaternary N<sup>+</sup>. The variation of N types reflects that the carbonization degree increases as the carbonization temperature is increased. Compared with the sample before carbonization, the N content is increased after carbonized at 600 °C. The N contents of the sample-625 and sample-650 are clearly smaller than that of the sample-600 but larger than that of the sample-675. In all samples, the pyridinic N is the major type, followed by pyrrolic N. The contents of graphitic N and quaternary N<sup>+</sup> are relatively small.

The electrocatalytic ORR performances of the samples obtained at different carbonization temperatures were studied by LSV (Figure 6d). The sample-650 has the highest electrocatalytic activity toward ORR, followed by the sample-675. The sample-600 exhibits the lowest catalytic activity for ORR. The variation of the electrocatalytic activity toward ORR with the carbonization temperature can be understood by the changes of the morphology and the composition of the samples. Although the sample-600 has the highest pyridinic N which is generally believed as the active center for ORR,[3,7,8] it has the lowest carbonization degree and therefore has very poor electric conductivity of 0.5 S cm<sup>−</sup>1 and lowest catalytic activity toward ORR. In spite of that the sample-625 and sample-650 have comparable N contents and comparable pyridinic N, the latter has larger lateral size of graphitic carbon than the former and thereby has higher electric conductivity of 3.3 S cm<sup>−</sup>1 than the former (1.0 S cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ). Moreover, the sample-650 has tiny pores which provide mass-transfer channels and new active sites. In addition, a large amount of Fe3N and Fe nanoparticles are formed in the sample-650, which provide other two types of catalytic active centers. As a result, the sample-650 has higher electrocatalytic activity than the sample-625. Compared with sample-650, sample-675 has smaller amount of pyridinic N and therefore has lower catalytic activity.

### **2.4. Effect of the Amount of Fe Sources**

In order to investigate the effect of initial Fe amount on the electrocatalytic activities of the prepared Fe-N/C nanohybrids, we changed the molar ratio of FeCl2 to urea from 0.002 to 0.008. As the initial Fe content is increased, the lateral size of graphitic carbon is increased, and the Fe3N nanoparticles and tiny pores are formed on the carbon layers (Figure S10, Supporting Information). As a result, Fe can act as catalyst for the carbonization and plays a very important role for the formation of tiny pores. The Raman spectra indicate that the edge states increase with the increase of initial Fe amount (Figure S11, Supporting Information), which is consistent with the fact that the tiny pores form at high initial Fe amount. The XRD diffraction patterns show the presences of graphitic carbon, <sup>ε</sup>-Fe3N, and α-Fe in all the samples prepared with different initial Fe amounts (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The electrocatalytic ORR activities of all catalysts obtained with different initial Fe amounts were investigated by LSV (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The electrocatalytic activities of the samples for ORR first increase with the increase of the initial Fe amounts and then decrease. The best catalytic activity is obtained on the hybrids prepared with the molar ratio of 0.006

**Figure 6.** a) XRD patterns of the samples obtained at different carbonization (second-step pyrolysis) temperatures. b) XPS of N 1s in the different samples. c) Total N contents and the relative contents of different N in the different samples. For comparison, the sample before carbonization is also shown in (b,c). For the calculation of total N contents, only the amounts of N and C are taken into consideration. The numbers marked in the figure are the relative contents of different N to the total N contents. d) LSV curves of the samples obtained at different carbonization temperatures. The LSV curves were measured in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH aqueous solution with a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and a rotation rate of 1600 rpm.

between Fe and urea. The variation tendency of the catalytic activity with initial Fe amounts can be understood by the morphology change of the samples. Low amount of iron source gives deficient pyrolysis and produces less pores and Fe3N and Fe nanoparticles, i.e., the low amount of Fe sources cannot provide sufficient active sites for ORR. In contrast, the too high amount of Fe sources results in the over pyrolysis and produces very large pores in the graphitic carbon layers, which reduces the electric conductivity of the catalyst and lowers the electrocatalytic activity.

# **3. Conclusion**

A cost-effective method is developed for the preparation of Fe-N/C-based electrocatalysts for ORR. Low-cost urea and ferrous chloride are employed as precursors for Fe-N/C-based hybrids. During the first-step pyrolysis, urea and ferrous chloride convert into Fe-g-C3N4, which then transforms into Fe-N/C-based hybrids during the second-step pyrolysis. The obtained hybrids have three types of ORR active components, including homogeneously distributed coordinating Fe moieties (FeC*x*N*y* or FeN*x*) and Fe and Fe3N nanoparticles encapsulated with defect-free N-doped graphitized carbon. The Fe-N/C-based hybrids exhibit very high catalytic activity for ORR with an onset potential of 0.940 V and a half-wave potential of 0.810 V versus RHE, which are comparable to those of Pt/C at the same catalyst loading. Moreover, the Fe-N/C nanohybrid catalysts show better long-term stability and tolerance of methanol than commercial Pt/C catalyst. Owing to the low-cost, high efficiency, and stability as well as high methanol tolerance, our preparation method and the prepared Fe-N/C-based hybrids will be very important to the development of electrochemical energy storage and conversion involving ORR.

# **4. Experimental Section**

All the chemicals were analytical grade and used as-received without further purification. Deionized water was used throughout the experiment. *Preparation of Fe-N/C-Based Nanohybrids*: The Fe-N/C-based nanohybrids were prepared by using FeCl2·4H2O and urea through a two-step pyrolysis. The first pyrolysis step produced the Fe-g-C3N4, which was converted into Fe-N/C nanohybrids during the second pyrolysis step. For the preparation of Fe-g-C3N4, 14.3 g of urea and 0.3 g of FeCl2·4H2O were mixed in 20 mL of water. After stirring at the room temperature for 2 h, the solution was dried at 80 °C. The obtained powder was grounded in an agate mortar. The grounded powder was then transferred into an alumina boat crucible and heated to 550 °C at a heating rate of 2.5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> and maintained for 3 h under flowing argon atmosphere. In the second pyrolysis process (carbonization), the obtained Fe-g-C3N4 powder was first grounded in an agate mortar to obtain fine powder, and then transferred into an alumina boat crucible for carbonization. The powder was heated up to 650 °C with a heating rate of 2.3 °C min−<sup>1</sup> and maintained at 650 °C for 3 h under flowing argon atmosphere. The carbonized product was transferred to HCl (0.3 m) and ultrasoniced at the room temperature for 2 h. After acid etching, the Fe-N/C nanohybrids were obtained by the centrifugation and were washed with water several times. For studying the effect of carbonization temperature, the Fe-N/C nanohybrids were prepared at carbonization temperatures of 600, 625, and 675 °C, and other conditions were kept the same. In the preparation of the Fe-N/C nanohybrids with different Fe contents, only the molar ratio between FeCl2·4H2O and urea

was changed from 0.002 to 0.008, other conditions are kept the same. *Characterization*: TEM imaging was carried out on a JEM-2100 microscope (JEOL) operating at 200 kV. HRTEM imaging was carried out on a Tecnai G2 F20 operating at 200 kV. EDX elemental maps were obtained on an FEI Tecnai F20 microscope equipped with an Oxford EDX analysis system. XRD patterns were conducted on a Rigaku Smartlab diffractometer with Cu Kα (λ = 1.5406 Å) radiation. XPS data were collected on an Axis Ultra spectrometer (Kratos Analytical) equipped with a monochromatized Al Kα X-ray source (1486.6 eV). The binding energy was corrected by the C 1s line at 284.6 eV. Surface areas and pore size distributions were measured by nitrogen adsorption and desorption at 77 K on an ASAP 2020HD88 system (Micromeritics Instrument Corporation). TG measurements were performed on a Q600 Thermoanalyzer Systems under N2, by heating from room temperature to 1000 °C at a rate 10 °C min−<sup>1</sup> . Raman spectra were obtained using an In Via Reflex Raman spectrometer employing a semiconductor laser (λ = 532 nm). The conductivity of the prepared hybrids was measured by a four-point probe instrument (RTS-9, Guangzhou, China).

*Electrochemical Analysis*: The electrochemical measurements were carried out in N2- and O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolyte using a standard three-electrode electrochemical station (CHI 660E Instruments) at room temperature. Ag/AgCl (in saturated KCl solution) was used as the reference electrode and a Pt plate was employed as the counter electrode. The working electrode was the rotating disk electrode (RDE) coated with catalysts. The catalysts were first ultrasonically dispersed in a solvent mixture containing 80 µL of 5 wt% Nafion solution, 184 µL of ethanol, and 736 µL of water, and then 10 µL of the resulting suspension was dropped onto a prepolished glassy carbon electrode (5 mm in diameter) and dried at room temperature serving as a working electrode. The catalyst loading was calculated to be 102 µg cm<sup>−</sup>2 on the glassy carbon electrode. For comparison, a commercially available 20 wt% Pt/C electrocatalyst was used. CV was carried out in N2- and O2-saturated 0.1 <sup>m</sup> KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . LSV measurements were performed at different rotating speeds from 400 to 2025 rpm in an O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . The measured potentials versus Ag/AgCl were converted into an RHE scale according to the Nernst equation (*E*RHE = *E*Ag/AgCl + 0.197 + 0.059 pH). The number of electrons transferred onto the Fe-N/C nanohybrids was calculated according to the Koutecky–Levvich equation

$$\frac{1}{J} = \frac{1}{J_{L}} + \frac{1}{J_{k}} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{1/2}} + \frac{1}{J_{k}} \tag{1}$$

$$B = 0.62nFC_{o}D_{o}^{2/3}v^{-1/6}$$
 (2)

where *J* is the measured current density, *J*L is the diffusion current, and *J*k is the kinetic current, ω is the RDE rotating rate, *F* is the Faraday constant (96 485 C mol−<sup>1</sup> ), *C*o is the bulk concentration of oxygen in oxygen-saturated 0.1 <sup>m</sup> KOH (1.2 × 10−<sup>6</sup> mol cm−<sup>1</sup> ), *D*o is the diffusion coefficient of oxygen in 0.1 m KOH (1.9 × 10−<sup>5</sup> cm2 s−<sup>1</sup> ), υ is the kinetic viscosity (0.01 cm<sup>2</sup> s−<sup>1</sup> ), and *n* is the electron transfer number for the ORR, which can be calculated from the slope of K–L plots.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (61775129) and Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (GK201902001).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Keywords**

carbon nanocomposites, electrocatalysis, fuel cells, graphitic carbon nitride, oxygen reduction reaction

> Received: February 8, 2019 Published online:

- [1] D. H. Guo, R. Shibuya, C. Akiba, S. Saji, T. Kondo, J. Nakamura, *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361.
- [2] M. K. Debe, *Nature* **2012**, *486*, 43.
- [3] C. Z. Zhu, H. Li, S. F. Fu, D. Du, Y. H. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 517.
- [4] N.-T. Suen, S.-F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y.-J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337.
- [5] M. H. Shao, Q. W. Chang, J.-P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, *Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 3594.
- [6] L. M. Dai, Y. H. Xue, L. T. Qu, H.-J. Choi, J.-B. Baek, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, *115*, 4823.
- [7] A. A. Gewirth, J. A. Varnell, A. M. DiAscro, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2313.
- [8] H. J. Yu, L. Shang, T. Bian, R. Shi, G. I. N. Waterhouse, Y. F. Zhao, C. Zhou, L.-Z. Wu, C.-H. Tung, T. R. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 5080.
- [9] J. T. Zhang, L. M. Dai, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 7244.
- [10] S. B. Yang, X. L. Feng, X. C. Wang, K. Müllen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2011**, *50*, 5339.
- [11] L. Lv, D. Zha, Y. J. Ruan, Z. S. Li, X. Ao, J. Zheng, J. J. Jiang, H. M. Chen, W.-H. Chiang, J. Chen, C. D. Wang, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 3042.
- [12] D. V. Esposito, J. G. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 3900.
- [13] J. A. Vigil, T. N. Lambert, K. Eldred, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 22745.
- [14] Y. Y. Liang, Y. G. Li, H. Wang, J. G. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. J. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780.
- [15] L. C. P. Pérez, N. R. Sahraie, J. Melke, P. Elsässer, D. Teschner, X. Huang, R. Kraehnert, R. J. White, S. Enthaler, P. Strasser, A. Fischer, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1707551.
- [16] B. Y. Guan, Y. Lu, Y. Wang, M. H. Wu, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1706738.
- [17] Q. Xu, Y. P. Tang, X. B. Zhang, Y. Oshima, Q. H. Chen, D. L. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706330.
- [18] L. Lin, Q. Zhu, A. W. Xu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 11027.
- [19] K. Hu, L. Tao, D. D. Liu, J. Huo, S. Y. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 19379.
- [20] F.-L. Meng, Z.-L. Wang, H.-X. Zhong, J. Wang, J.-M. Yan, X.-B. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 7948.
- [21] J. Liang, R. F. Zhou, X. M. Chen, Y. H. Tang, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 6074.
- [22] Z. Huang, H. Y. Pan, W. J. Yang, H. H. Zhou, N. Gao, C. P. Fu, S. C. Li, H. X. Li, Y. F. Kuang, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 208.
- [23] F. Hu, H. C. Yang, C. H. Wang, Y. J. Zhang, H. Lu, Q. B. Wang, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1602507.
- [24] Y. H. Han, Y.-G. Wang, W. X. Chen, R. R. Xu, L. R. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Luo, R.-A. Shen, Y. Q. Zhu, W.-C. Cheong, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 17269.

- [25] Y. L. Chen, S. F. Ji, Y. G. Wang, J. C. Dong, W. X. Chen, Z. Li, R. G. Shen, L. R. Zheng, Z. B. Zhuang, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6937.
- [26] Z. P. Zhang, J. T. Sun, F. Wang, L. M. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 90383.
- [27] Q. H. Li, W. X. Chen, H. Xiao, Y. Gong, Z. Li, L. R. Zheng, X. S. Zheng, W. S. Yan, W.-C. Cheong, R. A. Shen, N. H. Fu, L. Gu, Z. B. Zhuang, C. Chen, D. S. Wang, Q. Peng, J. Li, Y. D. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800588.
- [28] M. Lefèvre, E. Proietti, F. Jaouen, J.-P. Dodelet, *Science* **2009**, *324*, 71.
- [29] W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. B. Liang, R. Q. Zou, S. J. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2650.
- [30] P. C. K. Vesborg, T. F. Jaramillo, *RSC Adv.* **2012**, *2*, 7933.
- [31] S.-J. Kim, J. Mahmood, C. M. Kim, G.-F. Han, S.-W. Kim, S.-M. Kim, S.-M. Jung, G. M. Zhu, J. J. D. Yoreo, G. Kim, J.-B. Baek, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 1737.
- [32] C.-W. Tsai, M.-H. Tu, C.-J. Chen, T.-F. Hung, R.-S. Liu, M.-Y. Lo, Y.-M. Peng, L. Zhang, J. J. Zhang, D.-S. Shy, X.-K. Xing, *RSC Adv.* **2011**, *1*, 1349.
- [33] K. Mamtani, U. S. Ozkan, *Catal. Lett.* **2015**, *145*, 436.
- [34] D. F. Yan, Y. X. Li, J. Huo, R. Chen, L. M. Dai, S. Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606459.
- [35] S. Gao, Y. Lin, X. C. Jiao, Y. F. Sun, Q. Q. Luo, W. H. Zhang, D. Q. Li, J. L. Yang, Y. Xie, *Nature* **2016**, *529*, 68.
- [36] X. Y. Cui, S. B. Yang, X. X. Yan, J. G. Leng, S. Shuang, P. M. Ajayan, Z. J. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, 5708.
- [37] Z.-H. Sheng, L. Shao, J.-J. Chen, W.-J. Bao, F.-B. Wang, X.-H. Xia, *ACS Nano* **2011**, *5*, 4350.
- [38] H.-K. Jeong, Y. P. Lee, R. J. W. E. Lahaye, M.-H. Park, K. H. An, I. J. Kim, C.-W. Yang, C. Y. Park, R. S. Ruoff, Y. H. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2008**, *130*, 1362.
- [39] H. Kong, J. Song, J. Jang, *Chem. Commun.* **2010**, *46*, 6735.
- [40] A. Gupta, A. Kumar, U. V. Waghmare, M. S. Hegde, *Chem. Mater.* **2009**, *21*, 4880.
- [41] Y. B. Li, Y. R. Yan, H. Ming, J. W. Zheng, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2014**, *305*, 683.
- [42] H.-W. Liang, W. Wei, Z.-S. Wu, X. L. Feng, K. Müllen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16002.
- [43] Z.-Y. Wu, X.-X. Xu, B.-C. Hu, H.-W. Liang, Y. Lin, L.-F. Chen, S. H. Yu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 8179.
- [44] R. Z. Jiang, D. Chu, *J. Power Sources* **2014**, *245*, 352.
- [45] L. Lin, Z. K. Yang, Y.-F. Jiang, A.-W. Xu, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 4449.
- [46] Y. Q. Wang, L. Tao, Z. H. Xiao, R. Chen, Z. Q. Jiang, S. Y. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1705356.
- [47] K. Hu, Z. H. Xiao, Y. Cheng, D. F. Yan, R. Chen, J. Huo, S. Y. Wang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *254*, 280.
- [48] A. J. Bard, L. R. Faulkner, *Electrochemical Methods Fundamentals and Applications*, Johy Wiley & Sons, New York **2001**.
- [49] L. T. Qu, Y. Liu, J.-B. Baek, L. M. Dai, *ACS Nano* **2010**, *4*, 1321.