---
source: Zhang 等 - 2025 - Orderly Stacked “Tile” Architecture with Single‐Atom Iron Boosts Oxygen Reduction in Liquid and Soli.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 25.847s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:11:03.353632Z
---

# **Orderly Stacked "Tile" Architecture with Single-Atom Iron Boosts Oxygen Reduction in Liquid and Solid-State Zn–Air Batteries**

*Bin Zhang, Jingshuang Dang, Hongyi Li, Jing-Jing Wang, Donghao Xu, Shihua Jia, Mufei Li, Ling Huang, and Jingui Duan\**

**Oxygen reduction reaction plays a crucial role in energy-related devices. However, four-electron transfer process involved in this reaction is usually constrained by sluggish kinetics. Single atomic (SA) Fe catalysts have attracted extensive attention due to the high atom utilization, yet the impact of the support architecture on accelerating the reaction has been largely overlooked. Inspired by the edge-rich and ordered tile that facilitates rainwater runoff, an orderly stacked "tile" carbon with highly dispersed SA Fe and doped S is prepared through the morphology-persistent conversion of a new metal–organic framework with a "tile" assembly. The catalyst exhibits a higher half-wave potential of 0.91 V in 0.1 M KOH, when compared with that of Pt/C and Fe atoms on a lamellar carbon. This is because the reaction kinetics is accelerated by the "tile" carbon architecture while the doped S weakens the Fe–O interaction, and decreases the \*OH binding strength. Importantly, the catalyst, working at the air cathodes, powers the liquid and the solid-state Zn–air batteries to show high-power density and remarkable stability, and can effectively charge a mobile phone. This work not only provides an effective catalyst but also highlights the importance of "tile" architecture for developing advanced catalysts.**

B. Zhang, D. Xu, S. Jia, M. Li, J. Duan State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering College of Chemical Engineering Nanjing Tech University Nanjing 211816, China

E-mail: [duanjingui@njtech.edu.cn](mailto:duanjingui@njtech.edu.cn) H. Li, L. Huang, J. Duan State Key Laboratory of Chemistry and Utilization of Carbon-Based Energy Resources College of Chemistry Xinjiang University Urumqi 830017, China J. Dang, J.-J. Wang Key Laboratory for Macromolecular Science of Shaanxi Province School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Shaanxi Normal University

Xi'an 710119, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202502834>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202502834**

# **1. Introduction**

The surging demand for smart electronics and timely communications has led to a significant focus on the development of renewable energy storage systems, specifically Zn–air batteries (ZABs), which have high theoretical energy density and low cost.[\[1–3\]](#page-8-0) Currently, the application of ZABs is primarily constrained by sluggish kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) on the air cathodes, a process involving multi-electron and multistep transfer.[\[4–7\]](#page-8-0) Noble metals have been considered as effective catalysts for ORR, whereas the intrinsic characteristics of high cost, low reserves, and poor tolerance to methanol have hindered their further developments.[\[8–12\]](#page-8-0) As a result, research has shifted to the finding or engineering of advanced transitional metal catalysts.

As a typical transitional metal, iron (Fe) is widely used in catalysis and electrochemical devices due to its diverse structures and abundant resources.[\[13–16\]](#page-8-0) In the pursuit of enhanced catalysis efficiency, research endeavors have been directed

toward the regulation of the structure configuration at the atomic scale in accordance with Sabatier's principle.[\[17\]](#page-8-0) For instance, a sulfurization-assisted strategy has been developed to control the coordination geometry of single atomic (SA) Fe, leading to optimized adsorption/desorption of the oxygen intermediates.[\[18\]](#page-8-0) By controlling the electron-withdrawing/donating properties of a carbon plane, the *d*-band configuration of the single Fe site and the intermediate adsorption energy can be reduced, thereby accelerating the reaction.[[19–22\]](#page-8-0) Additionally, a strategy of creating an overhang-eave structure, on which the SA Fe sites were exposed to the greatest extent, was found to be beneficial to the mass transfer of ORR-relevant species.[\[23–25\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, taking the consideration that the ORR primarily of occurs at the phase boundaries (catalyst-electrolyte-oxygen), SA Fe with optimized coordination configuration on edge-rich and orderly stacked support structure would be a fine design for promoted ORR performance. However, the construction of such edge-rich catalysts with highly dispersed SA Fe to ensure the high performance of the forthcoming ZAB systems has posed a new challenge to this concept.

**Scheme 1.** Schematic view of the tile inspired construction of orderly stacked carbon "tile" with SA Fe: persistent converting a newly designed MOF (NTU-89) "tile" that incorporated with Fe3+.

We are interested in the oriented design of metal–organic framework (MOFs) and MOF-derived catalysts.[\[26–29\]](#page-8-0) Inspired by the edge-rich and ordered tile architecture that facilitates rainwater runoff on the roof, we propose that the persistent conversion of MOFs "tile" represents a viable strategy (**Scheme 1**). This is because: 1) the highly tunable nature of MOFs endows them with superiority in precisely constructing SA catalysts,[\[30–33\]](#page-8-0) the specific ligands within the framework enable precise control of the coordination environment of metal ions; 3) the assembly of MOF nanoparticles or nanosheets can be achieved under optimized synthesis conditions; and 4) the persistent conversion can effectively minimize the structural uncertainties arising from pyrolysis. To implement this idea, a new MOF "tile" (**NTU-89**) was designed and synthesized from Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and 2-aminoterephthalic acid (NH2-H2BDC). The thermally stable "tile" MOF has abundant edges, while the exposed -NH2 groups in the channel facilitate Fe/S capture. After adsorbing Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and S, a persistent conversion enables the MOF "tile" to be transformed into N─S doped carbon "tile" with highly dispersed SA Fe sites (named Fe-NS/C). The Fe-NS/C exhibits outstanding ORR performance (*E*1/2 = 0.91 V) in alkaline solution, far surpassing that of the Fe centers on lamellar support and Pt/C. The accelerated reaction kinetics contributed by the "tile" architecture was finely illustrated by in-situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and distribution of relaxation times analysis. Further, doped S weakens the Fe–O interaction, and decreases the \*OH binding strength, evidenced by modeling calculations. Acting as a catalyst on the air cathode, the Fe-NS/C powers liquid and solid-state ZABs to show superior power density, remarkable stability, and can effectively charge a mobile phone.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Structure Characterization**

To fabricate an orderly stacked carbon "tile" with SA Fe sites, a new Zn-MOF (named **NTU-89**) was designed and prepared at first. The layered framework provides a favorable platform for achieving the ordered assembly of MOF nanosheets (sub-block of tile). **NTU-89** was synthesized via solvothermal reaction of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O and NH2-H2BDC in *N*,*N*'-dimethylformamide (DMF) (Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information). The crystal structure was found to be monoclinic *I* 2/m space group with the formula of [Zn(NH2-BDC)·DMF]·solvent (Table S1, Supporting Information). The asymmetric unit of the crystal comprises half a ligand, half a Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ion, and half a coordinated DMF molecule (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The two Zn nodes are coordinated by four carboxylate groups from four NH2-H2BDC ligands, forming a classical paddlewheel cluster with axially ligated DMF molecules. In addition, one NH2- H2BDC ligand connects two paddlewheel clusters, yielding a **sql** layer. The A-A stacked layers result in a 1D nanochannel along the a-axis, especially the aperture size is about 4 × 6 Å2 (**Figure 1**[a\)](#page-2-0). In addition, the channels are decorated with rich and free -NH2 groups, which would act as an interaction site for adsorption of introduced species (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Given the flat surface and isolated crystals, a modified route was then developed, namely stirring the Zn(NO3)2·6H2O and NH2-H2BDC in DMF with triethylamine, acting as a reaction accelerator. Interestingly, the rapidly formed **NTU-89** nanosheets assembled together and exhibited a "tile" structure with a pronounced edge (Figure [1b;](#page-2-0) Figure S5, Supporting Information). The height of each nanosheet was found to be ≈0.12–0.13 μm. The phase purity of the MOF "tile" was confirmed through powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) comparison (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0).

In view of the exposed -NH2 groups in highly porous frameworks, Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and 1,3,5-triazinane-2,4,6-trithione (TCA) were introduced into the MOF "tile" under ultrasonic treatment in DMF. The incorporation of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and TCA did not disrupt the crystallinity and morphology of the MOF "tile" (Figure [1c;](#page-2-0) Figures S6 and S7, Supporting Information). After pyrolysis, the converted MOF "tile" (named Fe-NS/C) shows two diffraction peaks at about 24° and 43°, respectively, corresponding to the typical

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Structure (a) and morphology (b) of NTU-89. PXRD patterns (c). SEM (d) and TEM (e-g) images, AC-HAADF-STEM (h), and EDS mapping (i) of Fe-NS/C. Inset (f) shows the enlarged view of "tile" structure.

(002) and (101) lattice planes of carbon materials. Notably, no sharp peaks, indicating the absence of crystalline nanoparticles, were observed. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) images show that the Fe-NS/C has a "tile" architecture, nearly same as the MOF precursor (Figure 1d–f; Figures S8–S11, Supporting Information). Notably, an abundance of mesopores was observed on this converted "tile" architecture. In addition, the absence of any lattice fringes on the dark area of the TEM image suggests the disordered nature of the carbon matrix (Figure 1g). In the aberration-corrected highangle annular dark-field scanning TEM (AC-HAADF-STEM) images, the isolated bright spots suggest the presence of highly dispersed SA Fe sites (Figure 1h; Figure S12, Supporting Information), which consists of the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) (Figure 1i) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (see below) results. For comparison, the catalysts of Fe-N/C "tile" (no S doping), the N/C "tile" (No Fe sites), and SA Fe on lamellar carbon (Fe-NS/C-L) were also prepared (Figures S13-S21, Supporting Information).

The pore nature of the catalysts was evaluated by N<sub>2</sub> adsorption measurements at 77 K (Figure 2a). Fe-NS/C exhibits a type-IV isotherm with a hysteresis loop in the region of  $P/P_0 > 0.6$ . The surface area was calculated to be 1170 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, associated with a total pore volume of  $0.9 \text{ cm}^3 \text{ g}^{-1}$ . In addition, the pore size distribution varies within the ranges of 0.5-1 nm (micropores) and 2–60 nm (mesopores) (Figure 2b; Figure S22, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, Fe-N/C and N/C also exhibit type-IV isotherms with hysteresis loop in the region of  $P/P_0 > 0.6$ , but a type-I isotherm was observed for Fe-NS/C-L (Figure 2b; Figure S22, Supporting Information). Raman spectra of the Fe-NS/C reveal two typical D and G bands at 1347 and 1560 cm<sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Figure 2c), leading to the  $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$  ratio of 1.08, very close to the values in other samples (1.00). The small variation in the  $I_{\mathrm{D}}/I_{\mathrm{G}}$  ratio indicates a similar degree of framework defect and ordered graphitic carbon among the samples.<sup>[33,34]</sup> XPS analysis shows that Fe-NS/C has typical Fe 2p characteristics, including a  $Fe^{2+}$  peak at 711.5 eV (Fe  $2p_{3/2}$ ) and  $Fe^{3+}$  peaks at 715.5 eV (Fe  $2p_{3/2}$ ) and 723.4 eV (Fe  $2p_{1/2}$ ), in addition to a satellite peak

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** N2 adsorption isotherms (a), mesopore size distributions (b), Raman spectra (c), Fe K-edge XANES spectra (d), and FT-EXAFS spectra (e) of Fe-NS/C and other materials. FT-EXAFS R-space fitting curve of Fe-NS/C (f), Wavelet transform EXAFS contour plots of Fe-NS/C, and the standard references (g).

at 730.0 eV (Figures S24 and S25, Supporting Information). Evidently, the absence of Fe–O and Fe–S peaks in the O 1s and S 2p orbitals, respectively, indicates the Fe-Nx coordination on the Fe-NS/C. Meanwhile, the N 1s spectra suggests a deconvolution into five components, corresponding to the pyrrolic nitrogen (400.2 eV), pyridinic nitrogen (398.4 eV), graphitic nitrogen (401.1 eV), oxidised nitrogen (403.0 eV), and Fe-Nx (399.4 eV). Notably, pyridinic and graphitic nitrogen constitute a relatively higher proportion, thereby expected to lower the reaction energy barrier for oxygen adsorption and facilitate the formation of O intermediates.[\[35,36\]](#page-8-0) Other samples display similar coordination environments or components (Figures S26 and S27, Supporting Information).

To explore the local structure of the Fe-NS/C, K-edge X-ray Absorption Near Edge Structure (XANES) and Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (EXAFS) spectra of Fe-NS/C were collected (Figure 2d; Figure S28 and S29, Supporting Information). The Fe absorption edge aligns closely with that of FePc, suggesting the valence of Fe atoms on Fe-NS/C is very close to +2, consistent with the Fe 2p XPS spectra. In addition, Fourier transform of the EXAFS (FT-EXAFS) of Fe-NS/C exhibits a prominent peak at 1.5 Å, similar to the general Fe–N or Fe–O path.[\[37,38\]](#page-8-0) Combining the O 1s XPS spectrum (absence of Fe–O peaks), this peak should be assigned as the first-shell scattering path of Fe–N (Figure 2e). In addition, no Fe–Fe bonds were observed in Fe-NS/C, in contrast to the typical peaks of Fe foil (2.2 and 4.3 Å).[\[39\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, the existence of SA Fe in Fe-NS/C was finely validated. Based on the FT-EXAFS R-space, the optimized fittings (coordination number: 4.2, bond length: 2.01 Å) reveal that the SA Fe in Fe-NS/C is coordinated with four N atoms in the absence of axial coordination (Figure 2f and Table S3, Supporting Information), agreeing well with the Wavelet Transform (WT) analysis (Figure 2g; Figure S30, Supporting Information).

**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic performance: LSV curves in oxygen-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 1600 rpm (a), Tafel plots (b), Kinetic current density (Jk) at 0.85 V versus RHE and half-wave potentials (c), Electron transfer number and the hydrogen peroxide yield (d), Double layer capacitance (e), LSV curves of Fe-NS/C and Pt/C before and after 5000 CV cycles at a rotating rate of 1600 rpm (f).

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Performance**

Encouraged by the promising "tile" architecture and SA Fe, the ORR activity of the Fe-NS/C was evaluated. A reduction peak at 0.905 V was observed during cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements in an O2-saturated solution, but no peak was found in a N2-saturated electrolyte, indicating favorable O2 catalytic activity (Figure S31, Supporting Information). In addition, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves demonstrate that the Fe-NS/C has superior activity, characterized by an onset potential (*E*onset) of 1.015 V and a half-wave potential (*E*1/2) of 0.91 V, far exceeding those of the commercial Pt/C (1.01 V and 0.858 V), Fe-NS/C-L (0.997 V and 0.877 V), Fe-N/C (0.99 V and 0.90 V), and N/C (0.948 V and 0.815 V) (**Figure 3**a). Moreover, the Fe-NS/C has a relatively low Tafel slope of 52.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, associated with a high kinetic current density (Jk) (28.20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.85 V) (Figure 3b,c). Utilizing the Koutecký–Levich (K–L) plot, the electron transfer number (n) for Fe-NS/C was determined to be approximately 4.00, showing that the ORR involves a typical 4 electron process (Figures S32–S34, Supporting Information),[\[40\]](#page-8-0) and confirmed again by the hydrogen peroxide yield (5.7%) (Figure 3d). In addition, the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of Fe-NS/C, assessed on the basis of the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl),[\[41\]](#page-8-0) is as high as 35.3 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, exceeding those of Fe-NS/C-L (13.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), Fe-N/C (22.5 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and N/C (1.74 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure 3e; Figure S35, Table S4, Supporting Information).

To evaluate the stability of the catalyst, an accelerated degradation test was performed. The Fe-NS/C exhibited a negligible loss of 2 mV in terms of the *E*1/2 value after 5000 CV cycles. In contrast, a significant loss of 28 mV was observed for Pt/C (Figure 3f). In addition, a chronoamperometry (*i–t*) test reveals a decline of 4.3% in current density after 60 000 s of uninterrupted catalysis at 1600 rpm, which is much less than the 22.9% decrease in Pt/C (Figure S36, Supporting Information). Importantly, Fe-NS/C retains the original "tile" architecture and exhibits no evidence of atomic aggregation after *i–t* test (Figure S37, Supporting Information). In addition, the current density of Fe-NS/C remained as a nearly constant upon the introduction of methanol into the electrolyte, in contrast with a pronounced decline in current density of Pt/C (Figure S38). Besides the ORR activity in alkaline solution, Fe-NS/C also has a promising and steady acidic ORR performance, with an *E*1/2 value of 0.74 V and 8 mV decline after 5000 continuous CV cycles (Figures S40 and S41, Supporting Information).

To quantify the contributions of catalyst structures during ORR, in-situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were conducted within a continuous potential range of 1.02 to 0.55 V in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution (**Figure 4**[a–c\)](#page-5-0). Distribution of relaxation times (DRT) analysis was then carried out to decompose the electrochemical processes in Nyquist plot (Figure [4d–f\)](#page-5-0).[\[42\]](#page-8-0) Across the low-frequency (LF), midfrequency (IF), and high-frequency (HF) regions, the catalysts exhibited three distinct characteristic responses, corresponding to mass transfer, charge transfer, and ion/electron conduction, respectively.[\[43–46\]](#page-8-0) The DRT spectra exhibit two peaks on the time scale, with their intensities directly reflecting the resistance of the corresponding electrochemical processes (Figure S43,

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** The Nyquist plots of the in-situ EIS measurements (a–c) and the DRT analysis of Fe-N/C, Fe-NS/C-L, and Fe-NS/C (d–f).

Supporting Information). Particularly, the Fe-NS/C reveals significantly lower mass transport resistance within the kinetic control region, compared with that of the Fe-N/C and Fe-NS/C-L (Figure S44, Supporting Information). This finding clearly confirms the positive effect of a "tile" structure in reducing mass transport resistance. Additionally, the Fe-NS/C demonstrated lower electron conduction resistance in comparison to Fe-N/C and Fe-NS/C-L, thereby substantiating the beneficial impact of S doping on accelerating electron conduction rates.

#### **2.3. S-Doping Effect**

To understand the effect of S-doping on the catalytic activity of ORR, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were conducted. Based on XPS and EXAFS results, S did not join the first-shell coordination of Fe. Consequently, a S-doped model in which S replaces one carbon atom in the second shell was established (designated as FeN4S). The energy profiles of ORR reveal that the overpotentials () of ORR for FeN4 and FeN4S are 0.84 and 0.68 V respectively, demonstrating that the incorporation of sulfur into the carbon framework indeed enhances ORR activity (**Figure 5**a,b; Figure S45, Supporting Information). The potential-determining step (PDS) in ORR processes remains the final proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) step (\*OH + e<sup>−</sup> → OH<sup>−</sup>). Therefore, the enhanced activity following sulfur doping primarily arises from the weakened adsorption energy of the \*OH intermediate (Δ*G*\*OH). To further elucidate the underlying factors influencing \*OH stability, we conducted an energy decomposition analysis of Δ*G*\*OH using the activation-strain model,

**Figure 5.** DFT calculations. Free energy diagrams of ORR catalyzed by FeN4 (a) and FeN4S (b).

www.afm-journal.de

16163928, 2025, 34, Downladaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoid/10.1002/afmf.202502834 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (0601/2025). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-nd-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (1600). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-nd-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 6. Open circuit voltage of the liquid ZABs assembled with Fe-NS/C and Pt/C, respectively. Inset: optical photo of the voltage output by the Fe-NS/C battery (a), specific capacity test during discharge at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (b), initial polarization and power density curves of the ZABs (c), galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling curves at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (d).

decomposing  $\Delta G_{*OH}$  into the sum of interaction energy ( $\Delta E_{int}$ ), deformation energy ( $\Delta E_{\text{def}}$ ), and correction of free energy ( $\Delta G_{\text{cor}}$ ). As presented in Table S5 (Supporting Information), the variation in  $\Delta G_{*_{\mathrm{OH}}}$  is primarily dictated by  $\Delta E_{\mathrm{int}}$ , whereas  $\Delta E_{\mathrm{def}}$  and  $\Delta G_{\rm cor}$  exhibit only minimal changes. In principle,  $\Delta E_{\rm int}$  comprises multiple energy components, including electrostatic interactions, Pauli exchange-repulsion, orbital interactions, and correlation effects. Specifically, the orbital interaction term ( $\Delta E_{oi}$ ), arising from the interaction between Fe-3d and O-2p orbitals, has been proved to play a dominant role in determining the  $\Delta E_{int}$  of \*OH in Fe-N-C systems.[47]

Therefore, the effects of sulfur doping on the orbital and charge distribution of Fe were further studied, by employing hydrogen-terminated cluster models (Figure S46, Supporting Information). The frontier molecular orbital analyses (Figure S47, Supporting Information) indicate that the Fe-3d orbitals predominantly constitute the LUMO, and S doping increases the LUMO energy level by 0.16 eV for FeN<sub>4</sub>S. Obviously, this elevation weakens the Fe-O interaction, thereby reducing the stability of the \*OH intermediates. Furthermore, the natural population analysis (NPA) charge of Fe was collected to elucidate the shift in LUMO energy levels. The Fe atom in pristine FeN, exhibits a higher valence state of +0.78 e. Sulfur, acting as an electron donor, transfers electrons to the adjacent N and Fe atoms, increasing the electron density of Fe and thereby lowering its valence state to +0.49 e in FeN<sub>4</sub>S. Consequently, the d-orbital energy level shifts upward. Notably, Bader charges analysis in the periodic boundary condition models corroborates this conclusion (Table S6, Supporting Information). Overall, the enhancement in

ORR activity upon S doping, as observed experimentally, can be attributed to charge transfer from the dopant S (acting as a Lewis base) to Fe, which elevates the energy level of the unoccupied Fe-3d orbitals, weakens the Fe-O interaction, and consequently reduces the \*OH binding strength and lowers the overpotential of ORR.

#### 2.4. Liquid and Solid-State Zn-Air Batteries

To validate the feasibility of the catalyst, a zinc-air battery (ZAB) was constructed using a zinc plate as the anode, carbon paper loaded with Fe-NS/C as the cathode, and a mixed electrolyte solution comprising 0.2 M Zn (AC), and 6 M KOH. The fabricated ZAB exhibits a higher open-circuit voltage of 1.513 V and longer sustained discharge over 62 h (current density: 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) than that of the battery assembled with Pt/C (1.435 V, 47 h) (Figure 6a; Figures S48 and S49, Supporting Information). The open-circuit voltage of the two ZABs in series was further validated by illuminating a green light-emitting diode (LED) (voltage: 2.1 V, power: 0.06 W). Meanwhile, the specific capacity of Fe-NS/C was calculated to be 827 mAh·g<sub>z</sub><sup>-1</sup>, surpassing that of benchmark iron-based catalysts and commercial Pt/C (786 mAh  $g_z^{-1}$ ) (Figure 6b). More importantly, the rechargeable ZAB with Fe-NS/C exhibits a maximum power density of 181.1 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is much higher than that of the Pt/C (137.9 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure 6c). In a similar manner, galvanostatic discharge curves obtained at various current densities (ranging from 1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> to 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) indicated that the ZAB with Fe-NS/C exhibits

**Figure 7.** Schematic diagram of a flexible solid-state ZAB (a), open circuit voltage of solid-state ZABs based on Fe-NS/C and Pt/C. Inset: optical photo of the voltage output by the Fe-NS/C (b); Initial polarization and power density curves of the ZABs (c), galvanostatic discharge–charge cycling curves at 1 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (d), charge–discharge cycling and photographs of different bending conditions (e), charging a mobile phone (f).

higher voltage plateaus in comparison to the Pt/C+RuO2 catalyst (Figure S50, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the ZAB assembled with Fe-NS/C+RuO2 demonstrated remarkable stability during the discharge-charge cycling tests (5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) in nearly 500 h (ZAB with Pt/C+ RuO2: 60 h) (Figure [6d\)](#page-6-0). Importantly, after this long-term test, the composition and morphology of the Fe-NS/C are well-retained, showing excellent structure and catalysis stability (Figure S51, Supporting Information).

Encouraged by this promising result, a solid-state ZAB was also prepared, comprising an air cathode of Fe-NS/C on carbon cloth, a Zn foil anode, and an electrolyte of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and potassium hydroxide (KOH) (**Figure 7**a). The battery exhibits a high open-circuit voltage of 1.533 V, which is higher than that of the Pt/C + RuO2-based battery (1.389 V) (Figure 7b; Figure S49, Supporting Information). The maximum power density of the Fe-NS/C+RuO2-based battery reaches 126.9 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 7c). At a current density of 1 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the Fe-NS/C+ RuO2-based ZAB has a more limited voltage gap (0.37 V) and can be operated for 17 h (Figure 7d). Furthermore, it demonstrates excellent mechanical flexibility, that is capable of charging and discharging across a wide range of bending angles (from 0° to 180°) (Figure 7e). More importantly, the four of these batteries can charge a mobile phone (model: Redmi K40) (Figure 7f and Section S2, Supporting Information).

## **3. Conclusion**

On the demand of highly efficient ORR catalysts, we here successfully prepared a catalyst with SA Fe decorated on an orderly stacked "tile" carbon, converted from a newly designed **NTU-** **89** that features a "tile" assembly. The edge-rich carbon support and highly dispersed SA Fe ensure exceptional ORR performance with a half-wave potential of 0.91 V in alkali solution, and thereby power the high performance of the liquid and solid-state ZAB system. The positive contributions of the support and active center on accelerated reactions were finely illustrated by in-situ EIS measurements and DRT analysis. Theoretical calculations indicate that doped S weakens the Fe–O interaction, and consequently decreases the \*OH binding strength and facilitates ORR. More importantly, the flexible and solid-state ZAB can effectively charge a mobile phone. This study proposes an efficient catalyst synthesis method that synergistically regulates mass transport and electronic structure, demonstrating excellent ORR performance and catalytic potential. Furthermore, it is emphasized that edge-rich "tile" architecture has a significant impact of on the development of advanced catalysts for mobile energy systems.

CCDC [2 379 947](https://www.ccdc.cam.ac.uk/services/structures?id=doi:10.1002/adfm.202502834) contains the supplementary crystallographic data for this paper. These data can be obtained free of charge from The Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre via [www.ccdc.cam.](http://www.ccdc.cam.ac.uk/data_request/cif) [ac.uk/data\\_request/cif.](http://www.ccdc.cam.ac.uk/data_request/cif)

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors thank the financial support of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22171135, 22471235), the Natural Science

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Foundation of Jiangsu province (BK20231269), and the State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering (SKL-MCE-23A18).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Author Contributions**

B.Z., J.D. and H.L. contributed equally to this work. J.D. performed conceptualization, supervision, and wrote and reviewed the final manuscript. B.Z. performed experiments, analysis, and wrote the manuscript. D.X. performed visualization and validation. J.D. and H.L. performed visualization, analysis, and calculations. All authors gave valuable comments on the final draft.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

## **Keywords**

liquid and solid-state Zn–air batteries, mass transfer, orderly stacked tile support, oxygen reduction, single-atom iron

> Received: February 1, 2025 Revised: March 5, 2025 Published online: March 24, 2025

- [1] D. Liu, H. Ge, M. Song, Y. Jiang, X. Gong, T. You, L. Fu, Z. Fu, Y. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2417161.
- [2] Z. Qiu, X. Guo, S. Cao, M. Du, Q. Wang, Y. Pi, H. Pang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *64*, 202415216.
- [3] J. Wang, H. Zhang, L. Yang, S. Zhang, X. Han, W. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202318149.
- [4] J. K. Li, H. Zhao, Y. Zhang, J. J. Ma, F. F. Wang, S. N. Zhao, J. Li, S. Q. Zang, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *12*, 2412387.
- [5] Y. Xie, Y. Feng, S. Zhu, Y. Yu, H. Bao, Q. Liu, F. Luo, Z. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2414801.
- [6] G. Li, Z. Zhao, S. Zhang, L. Sun, M. Li, J. A. Yuwono, J. Mao, J. Hao, J. Vongsvivut, L. Xing, C.-X. Zhao, Z. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 6526.
- [7] M. Liu, J. Zhang, H. Su, Y. Jiang, W. Zhou, C. Yang, S. Bo, J. Pan, Q. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1675.
- [8] J. Wang, X. Q. Fang, J. N. Liu, Y. W. Song, M. Zhao, B. Q. Li, J. Q. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *35*, 2413562.
- [9] Y. Yu, Y. Wang, F. Yang, D. Feng, M. Y. Yang, P. F. Xie, Y. Z. Zhu, M. H. Shao, Y. Mei, J. C. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *64*, 202415691.
- [10] J. K. Tian, Y. H. Song, X. D. Hao, X. D. Wang, Y. Q. Shen, P. Z. Liu, Z. B. Wei, T. Liao, L. Jiang, J. J. Guo, B. S. Xu, Z. Q. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2412051.
- [11] Z. M. Qiu, X. T. Guo, S. Cao, M. Du, Q. C. Wang, Y. C. Pi, H. Pang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *64*, 202415216.
- [12] Z. Li, X. Lu, C. Guo, S. Ji, H. Liu, C. Guo, X. Lu, C. Wang, W. Yan, B. Liu, W. Wu, J. H. Horton, S. Xin, Y. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 3195.
- [13] H. Tian, A. Song, P. Zhang, K. Sun, J. Wang, B. Sun, Q. Fan, G. Shao, C. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Li, G. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210714.

- [14] Y. Zhao, Z. Shen, J. Huo, X. Cao, P. Ou, J. Qu, X. Nie, J. Zhang, M. Wu, G. Wang, H. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202308349.
- [15] X. Tan, J. Zhang, F. Cao, Y. Liu, H. Yang, Q. Zhou, X. Li, R. Wang, Z. Li, H. Hu, Q. Zhao, M. Wu, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *11*, 2306599.
- [16] Y. Hu, H. Lan, J. He, W. Fang, W.-D. Zhang, S. Lu, F. Duan, M. Du, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *18*, 23168.
- [17] P. Sabatier, *Ber. Dtsch. Chem. Ges.* **2006**, *44*, 1984.
- [18] M. Yuan, Y. Liu, Y. Du, Z. Xiao, H. Li, K. Liu, L. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2401484.
- [19] Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254.
- [20] S. Ji, Y. Wang, H. Liu, X. Lu, C. Guo, S. Xin, J. H. Horton, F. Zhan, Y. Wang, Z. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2314621.
- [21] Z. Li, H. Liu, Y.-H. Wang, S. Ji, Y. Zhang, Y. Liu, X. Lu, H. Teng, J. H. Horton, Y. Wang, X. Ma, Y.-J. Tang, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *19*, 1600.
- [22] S. Ji, Y. Mou, H. Liu, X. Lu, Y. Zhang, C. Guo, K. Sun, D. Liu, J. H. Horton, C. Wang, Y. Wang, Z. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2410121.
- [23] C. C. Hou, L. Zou, L. Sun, K. Zhang, Z. Liu, Y. Li, C. Li, R. Zou, J. Yu, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2020**, *59*, 7384.
- [24] W. Wang, C. Li, C. Zhou, X. Xiao, F. Li, N. Y. Huang, L. Li, M. Gu, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2024**, *63*, 202406947.
- [25] C. C. Hou, Y. Wang, L. Zou, M. Wang, H. Liu, Z. Liu, H. F. Wang, C. Li, Q. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101698.
- [26] H. Li, J.-J. Zheng, M. Yang, J. Duan, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *16*, 2383.
- [27] Y. H. Huang, Y. F. Feng, Y. Li, K. Tan, J. Tang, J. F. Bai, J. G. Duan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202403421.
- [28] Y. Huang, J. Wan, T. Pan, K. Ge, Y. Guo, J. Duan, J. Bai, W. Jin, S. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 24425.
- [29] Q. Dong, Y. Huang, J. Wan, Z. Lu, Z. Wang, C. Gu, J. Duan, J. Bai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 8043.
- [30] M. Du, B. Chu, Q. Wang, C. Li, Y. Lu, Z. Zhang, X. Xiao, C. Q. Xu, M. Gu, J. Li, H. Pang, Q. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2412978.
- [31] Y. Yu, Y. Wang, F. Yang, D. Feng, M. Yang, P. F. Xie, Y. Zhu, M. Shao, Y. Mei, J. C. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, 202415691.
- [32] S. S. Hu, J. J. Huang, M. L. Gao, Z. Y. Lin, Y. Y. Qian, W. J. Yang, L. Jiao, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem.Int. Ed.* **2024**, *8*, 202415155.
- [33] H. Hu, J. Wang, K. Liao, Z. Chen, S. Zhang, B. Sun, X. Wang, X. Ren, J. Lin, X. Han, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2416126.
- [34] L. Yin, M. Sun, S. Zhang, Y. Huang, B. Huang, Y. Du, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2416387.
- [35] M. Xie, Y. Lu, X. Xiao, D. Wu, B. Shao, H. Nian, C. Wu, W. Wang, J. Gu, S. Han, M. Gu, Q. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *35*, 2414537.
- [36] K. Takeyasu, M. Furukawa, Y. Shimoyama, S. K. Singh, J. Nakamura, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5121.
- [37] Y. Li, H. Sun, L. Ren, K. Sun, L. Gao, X. Jin, Q. Xu, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202405334.
- [38] H. Zhang, H. C. Chen, S. Feizpoor, L. Li, X. Zhang, X. Xu, Z. Zhuang, Z. Li, W. Hu, R. Snyders, D. Wang, C. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2400523.
- [39] L. Zhou, P. Hu, M. Bai, N. Leng, B. Cai, H. L. Peng, P. Y. Zhao, Y. Guo, M. He, G. S. Wang, J. Gu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2418321.
- [40] H. Hu, J. J. Wang, K. Liao, Z. Y. Chen, S. Y. Zhang, B. W. Sun, X. Wang, X. X. Ren, J. G. Lin, X. P. Han, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2416126.
- [41] Q. Y. Jin, C. H. Wang, Y. Y. Guo, Y. H. Xiao, X. H. Tan, J. P. Chen, W. D. He, Y. Li, H. Cui, C. X. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2302152.
- [42] Y. Lu, C.-Z. Zhao, J.-Q. Huang, Q. Zhang, *Joule* **2022**, *6*, 1172.
- [43] K. U. Hansen, L. H. Cherniack, F. Jiao, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2022**, *7*, 4504.
- [44] F. He, M. Hou, F. Zhu, D. Liu, H. Zhang, F. Yu, Y. Zhou, Y. Ding, M. Liu, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2202175.
- [45] Q. An, X. Zhang, C. Yang, H. Su, W. Zhou, M. Liu, X. Zhang, X. Sun, S. Bo, F. Yu, J. Jiang, K. Zheng, Q. Liu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2304303.
- [46] J. Wu, Y. Zhu, A. Cai, X. Fan, W. Peng, Y. Li, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *98*, 634.
- [47] S. Li, X.-R. Peng, C.-W. Wang, X. Zhao, J.-S. Dang, J. Li, *Chem Cat* **2024**, *4*, 101059.