---
source: Zhang 等 - 2018 - Spinel MnCo2 O4 Nanoparticles Supported on Three‐Dimensional Graphene with Enh.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 20.066s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:57:14.535382Z
---

## **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Spinel MnCo2O4 Nanoparticles Supported on Three-Dimensional Graphene with Enhanced Mass Transfer as an Efficient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction

**Authors:** Tingwei Zhang, Zhongfang Li, Likai Wang, Peng Sun, Zhixu Zhang, and Suwen Wang

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.201801070

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201801070

# **Spinel MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> Nanoparticles Supported on Three-Dimensional Graphene with Enhanced Mass Transfer as an Efficient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

Tingwei Zhang, Zhongfang Li,\* Likai Wang, Peng Sun, Zhixu Zhang, Suwen Wang

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shandong University of Technology, Zibo 255049, P R China

\*Corresponding author: Tel. & Fax: +86 533 2786290, E-mail: [zhfli@sdut.edu.cn](mailto:zhfli@sdut.edu.cn) 266# Xincun West Road, Zibo City, Shandong Province, P R China, 255049

#### **Abstract**

The rational design of highly efficient and durable oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalysts are critical for the commercial application of fuel cells. Herein, three-dimensional graphene (3D-G) is synthesized by the template method which used coal tar pitch as carbon source and nano MgO as template. Then spinel MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> also been in-situ supported on 3D-G via a facile hydrothermal method noted as MnCo2O4/3D-G. The resultant MnCo2O4/3D-G retains the multilayered mesoporous graphene structure where MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticles are deposited on inner walls of pores in 3D-G. Electrochemically, the catalyst of MnCo2O4/3D-G shows high electrocatalytic activity with a half-wave potential of 0.81 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode, which is obviously superior to those of MnCo2O4/rGO (0.78 V), MnCo2O4/CNTs (0.74 V), MnCo2O4/C (0.72 V) and 20 wt% Pt/C (0.80 V). The electron transfer number of MnCo2O4/3D-G indicates a four-electron process of ORR. The durability test demonstrates that MnCo2O4/3D-G catalyst has much better durability than 20 wt% Pt/C. Our work make an inspiring strategy to prepare high-performance electrocatalysts for the development of fuel cells.

**Key words:** fuel cells; oxygen reduction reaction; spinel MnCo2O4; three-dimensional graphene; hydrothermal method.

#### **Introduction**

Over the past decade, energy and environment are the bottleneck which restricts sustainable development. Fuel cells are promising alternative power sources due to low emissions and high energy conversion efficiency. [\[1-3\]](#page-22-0) Metal-air fuel cells (MAFC) as a kind of fuel cells are especially suitable for being high-potential power sources because of their high theoretical energy density, high specific energy, easy operation and environmental friendliness. [\[4\]](#page-22-1) Like that in MAFC, the sluggish oxygen reduction reaction leads to high overpotential in the cathode, which reduced the performance of MAFCs. [\[5\]](#page-22-2) Therefore, it is urgent to develop efficient cathode catalysts for ORR.

Currently, the oxygen reduction catalysts applied to fuel cells include platinum and its alloys, metal oxides, metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) cluster and metal-free catalysts, etc. [\[6-10\]](#page-22-3) The noble metal catalysts such as Pt-group metal possess high catalytic activity and stability. However, the high price and limited resources have severely restricted the commercialization. Thus non-precious metal catalysts have drawn much attention over recent years. Transition-metal macro cyclic complexes catalysts mainly include phthalocyanine[\[11,](#page-23-0) [12\]](#page-23-1) and porphyrin complexes, [\[13\]](#page-23-2) which have high ORR performance after pyrolyzed to obtain M-N-C cluster. The metal complexes with nitrogenous organic compounds such as ethylenediamine, [\[14\]](#page-23-3) phenanthroline[\[15\]](#page-23-4) and nitrogenous polymer such as polyaniline, polypyrrole metal complexes were heat treated to prepare M-N-C cluster. [\[16\]](#page-23-5) Carbon-based metal-free catalysts, particularly heteroatom (N, S, B) doped graphene and carbon nanotubes have achieved high activity in alkaline solution. [\[17-19\]](#page-23-6) The transition metal oxides catalysts as cathode ORR catalysts

have attracted extensive attention because of the high activity, low cost, ease of preparation and environmental friendliness. [20, 21] Typical transition metal oxides such as  $MnO_x$ , [22]  $CoO_x$ , [23]  $MnCo_2O_4$  [24] and  $NiCo_2O_4$  [25] have been reported as cathode catalysts. The transition metal oxides with a spinel structure have been investigated as efficient cathode catalysts for fuel cells. [26] In particular, spinel MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> oxides with Mn and Co having multiple valence state, which have shown high activity as electrocatalyst for ORR. [27] Mixed valence increased the activity sites in the catalysts, which can improve the ORR activity. The covalently bonded hybrid afforded much greater activity and durability than the physical mixture of nanoparticles (NPs). [28] However, spinel MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> oxide as an efficient ORR catalyst is still limited by its poor electronic conductivity. [29] To overcome this problem, the carbon materials such as carbon black, [30] carbon nanotube [29] and graphene [31] are introduced as the support for MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. Among these carbon materials, graphene is a single atom layered two dimensional candidate with outstanding properties, such as high electron conductivity and large specific surface area. [32] Based on spinel MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> strongly coupled hybrid approach, Dai and co-workers prepared MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/graphene catalyst. [28] The high activity of supported oxide NPs are thought to be achieved by the strong coupling between oxide NPs and the support. However, the unavoidable stacking and agglomeration due to strong  $\pi$ - $\pi$  interaction between graphene sheets caused formation of graphite-like powders with compact layered structures, resulting in loss of performance. [33] Therefore, three dimensional graphene (3D-G) has received increasing attention because it not only maintains the superior intrinsic properties of graphene, but also has a 3D porous structure which exhibits more defects and high specific surface area. [\[34\]](#page-23-21) Recently, various approaches have been developed for the synthesis of 3D-G, including template method, [\[35\]](#page-24-0) chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and so on.[\[36\]](#page-24-1) Template method has been used to prepare 3D-G, which can meet the requirement of pore size, porosity, and the number of graphene layers. Suitable carbon source is select as precursor. This carbon source is mainly composed of fused ring aromatic hydrocarbons, which is beneficial to form graphene structure through dehydrogenative and carbonization under high temperature. [\[37\]](#page-24-2) The particle size of template can control the pore size of 3D-G and the number of graphene layers is adjusted by controlling mass ratio of carbon precursor and template. [\[38\]](#page-24-3) The suitable pore size is beneficial for the evenly deposition of metal oxide NPs on 3D-G surface (including inner surface and outside surface) to increase active sites, and the porosity of catalyst can enhance mass transfer. If pore size is too small for metal oxide NPs to get in and might cause pore blockage, which reduces the active sites. In contrast, the pore size is too large to reduce specific surface area. Meanwhile, KOH used as activation agent can facilitate connection of the mesopores through the corrosive action to carbon material under high temperature, which generates micropores and mesopores into the 3D-G and is beneficial to obtain more defects and high specific surface area. [\[39\]](#page-24-4) MnCo2O4/3D-G catalyst was prepared by deposition of spinel MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> on 3D-G by hydrothermal method. It can be speculated that MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> not only evenly deposited on 3D-G, but also formed uniform nano crystal structure. The catalyst of spinel MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> supported on 3D-G mainly possesses four advantages. Firstly, 3D-G with 3D porous structure has more defects, which contributes to uniformly distribution and evenly deposition of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> NPs on 3D-G surface to increase active sites. Secondly, the large π bond of 3D-G interacts with the molecular orbital of metal oxide can reinforce the immobilization of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> on 3D-G to increase activity and durability of the catalysts. Thirdly, MnCo2O4/3D-G retains the multilayered structure of graphene which has high electron conductivity and large specific surface. [Fourthly,](../../../Program%20Files%20(x86)/Youdao/Dict/7.2.0.0703/resultui/dict/) MnCo2O4/3D-G with 3D porous structure is beneficial to enhance mass transfer for improvement the ORR activity.

In this work, we decide to design an inspiring strategy to prepare MnCo2O4/3D-G as shown in the scheme of synthesis in **Figure 1**. Typically, 3D-G is synthesized by the template method which use coal tar pitch as carbon source and nano MgO as template. Then spinel MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticles are in-situ prepared on 3D-G via a facile hydrothermal method noted as MnCo2O4/3D-G. The catalysts samples were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms and Raman spectra analysis.

**Figure 1.** The synthesis routes of the MnCo2O4/3D-G catalyst.

#### **Results and discussion**

The XRD pattern of 3D-G showed a broad peak at approximately 2θ = 25° (**Figure S1**) corresponding to the (002) graphene and a peak at approximately 2θ = 43°corresponding to the (100) in-plane hexagonal atom arrangement were observed. [\[40\]](#page-24-5) As depicted in **Figure 2**, the XRD pattern of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 confirmed a series of well-defined peaks at 2θ = 18.3, 30.2, 35.6, 37.0, 43.2, 53.8, 57.2, 62.7 and 74.0°, which were ascribed to (111), (220), (311), (222), (400), (422), (511), (440) and (533) diffraction peaks corresponding to the spinel MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> (JCPDS no. 23-1237),[\[41\]](#page-24-6) implying that the as-prepared crystals was regarded as the structure of mixed valence oxide without generating MnO<sup>x</sup> and CoOx. [\[42\]](#page-24-7) Note that the (002) peak of 3D-G overlapped with the MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> (111) peak, so the XRD pattern of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 showed a broad diffraction peak at approximately 25°. Meanwhile, there was no diffraction peak of MgO, indicating that MgO template have been washed away.

**Figure 2** XRD pattern of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400.

Further morphologies and structural insights were investigated by SEM and

HR-TEM. As revealed by SEM images (**Figure S2 a, b**), the image of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 comprised distinct hierarchical porous structures in **Figure S2 a**. The image of MnCo2O4/CNTs indicated that MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> and CNTs not only evenly dispersed, but also combined together in **Figure S2 b**. A more detailed structure of the samples was investigated by HR-TEM. **Figure 3S a** showed that 3D-G with continuous foam-like porous structure and the HR-TEM image (**Figure 3S d**) of 3D-G showed that the edge stripes of graphene foam implied that the 3D-G was multi-layered structure, and its pore size was approximately 30 nm. The TEM image (**Figure 3S b**) of MnCo2O4/C displayed that the NPs of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> were deposited on the carbon matrix. Each nanoparticle was dispersed with serious aggregation. The HR-TEM image (**Figure 3S e**) of MnCo2O4/C demonstrated the interplanar spacing of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> was 0.29 nm, in accord with the (220) lattice planes of MnCo2O4. [\[41\]](#page-24-6) Similarly, MnCo2O4/CNTs consist of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> NPs coated with a thin carbon nanotube layer in **Figure 3S c**. The HR-TEM image (**Figure 3S f**) of MnCo2O4/CNTs displayed that the interplanar spacing were visible, and the d-spacings of 0.25 and 0.20 nm were measured to correspond well to the (311) and (400) planes of MnCo2O4. [\[43\]](#page-24-8) The TEM image (**Figure 3 a**) of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 showed that the NPs of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> were evenly deposited on 3D-G. MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 had a very distinct and evenly distributed pore structure. The HR-TEM image (**Figure 3 b**) displayed that MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> NPs were deposited on 3D-G inner surface and the interplanar spacing of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> was 0.25 nm, in accord with the (311) lattice planes of MnCo2O4. This result was consistent with the conclusion from XRD pattern of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 in **Figure 2**. Meanwhile, this result was also confirmed by the fact that pore size was approximately 30 nm. Furthermore, the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns (insets of **Figure 3S e, f and Figure 3 b**) further confirmed the crystalline nature of the MnCo2O4. [\[28\]](#page-23-15) As observed in **Figure 3 c-h**, energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) element mapping analysis of the MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 showed homogeneous distribution of Mn, Co and O heteroatoms on the surfaces of 3D-G. The Mn/Co atomic ratio was estimated to be approximately 1:2 (**Figure S4**), which was in good accordance with the expected results.

**Figure 3** (a) TEM images of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400; (b) HR-TEM images of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400; (c) Typical STEM image and corresponding elemental mapping of (d) C, (e) O, (f) Mn, (g) Co and (h) full.

The specific structure characteristics of the samples via Raman spectra was presented in **Figure 4**. The peak at 1350 cm−1 (D band) represented the lattice-defect-induced vibrations in the carbon nanosheets, suggesting a disorder of the 3D graphene layers. The peak at 1580 cm−1 (G band) was attributed to the vibrations of the sp<sup>2</sup>hybridized carbon atoms, implying good crystallinity of the graphene.[\[44\]](#page-24-9) The relative intensity of D band and G band (ID/IG) in the Raman spectra

should approximately correspond to the extent of defects in the graphitic carbon. [45] The calculated I<sub>D</sub>/I<sub>G</sub> ratios of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 was 1.06, relatively higher in comparison with that of 3D-G ( $I_D/I_G = 1.01$ ). The result implied that the size of the sp<sup>2</sup> domains and defects increased during the 3D-G. The prominent increase in the I<sub>D</sub>/I<sub>G</sub> ratio for the MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 composite was attributed to the increased amount of defects owing to the conjugation of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NPs anchored on the 3D-G. The peaks at 2800 cm<sup>-1</sup> correspond to the characteristic 2D bands of graphene, and the ratio of the G/2D band (I<sub>G</sub>/I<sub>2D</sub>) can indicate the number of graphene layers. [36] The calculated I<sub>G</sub>/I<sub>2D</sub> ratios of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 and 3D-G were 4.21 and 3.87, respectively, indicating that there were multilayer graphene structure. [16] This result is in accord with the TEM images shown in Figure 3 a and Figure S3 a. Meanwhile, the calculated I<sub>G</sub>/I<sub>2D</sub> ratio of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 was larger than that of 3D-G, revealing that the layers of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 were more than those of 3D-G. The result further confirmed that MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NPs were deposited on 3D-G surface, which was consistent with the conclusion from HR-TEM images of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 in Figure 3 b.

**Figure 4** Raman spectra of 3D-G and MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400.

Consistent results were observed in XPS measurements. As shown in Figure S5a, the XPS survey spectra of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 suggested the presence of Mn, Co, O and C elements. The atomic ratio of Mn 2p, Co 2p, O 1s and C 1s was 1.1, 1.8, 14.6 and 82.5%, respectively. The atom molar ratio between Mn and Co was approximately 1:2, which also indicated the formation of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> supported on 3D-G. The XPS spectra of Mn 2p (Figure 5 a) showed two major peaks centered at 642.0 and 654.5 eV, corresponding to the Mn 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Mn 2p<sub>1/2</sub>. The results indicated that main form of manganese was Mn<sup>2+</sup>, which was in good accordance with the expected results. [46] The XPS spectra of Co 2p (Figure 5 b) showed two major peaks centered at 794.7 and 780.8 eV, corresponding to the Co 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> spin-orbit peaks, which suggesting that the dominant valence of the Co was Co<sup>3+</sup>.[47] For the high-resolution analysis of O (Figure 5S b), the dominated peak at 529.5 eV was attributed to Mn-O-Co, while the peaks at 532.8 and 531.2 eV was ascribed to C=O and O=C-O functional group. [48] As depicted in **Figure 5S c**, the bond components located at 284.7, 285.6 and 288.6 eV were ascribed to C=C, C-O and C=O, respectively. [49] The specific surface area and pore width distribution of MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 were examinated by Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method and N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm. As shown in **Figure 5 c**, the typical isotherms identified as type IV with H3 hysteresis loop was a typical characteristic of mesoporous structure. [50] The specific surface area of 3D-G and MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 were 1921.7<sup>[38]</sup> and 425.9 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. According to the corresponding BJH plots of the MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/3D-G-400 catalyst in **Figure 5 d**, the pore size mainly ranges from 7 to 14 nm and the average

pore size was 9.2 nm. The pore size of 3D-G prepared by MgO templates was 30 nm and MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> NPs was approximately 10 nm. The decrease in pore sizes and surface area might be attributed to the deposition of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> NPs on the surface of the porous structure. The result was also consistent with the above result from HR-TEM images and Raman spectra. Owing to the mesoporous structure and high specific surface area, it is beneficial for the diffusion of oxygen and the penetration of the electrolyte, which can improve their electrochemical performance.

**Figure 5** XPS spectra for the (a) Mn 2p electrons and (b) Co 2p electrons in MnCo2O4/3D-G-400; (c) Nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherm and (b) Pore size distribution of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400.

As shown in **Figure 6**, the ORR performance test of different catalysts was investigated by rotating disk electrode measurements in O2-saturated 0.1 mol L-1 KOH solution. The LSV curves of MnCo2O4/3D-G at different heat treatment temperature were shown in **Figure S6**. The MnCo2O4/3D-G at the heat treated temperature of 400 °C showed the best ORR activity. As shown in **Figure 6 a,** MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 showed no redox peak in the potential range from -0.1- 1.3 V (vs. RHE) in the N2-saturated solution. In contrast, when the electrolyte was saturated with oxygen, an obvious reduction peak can be observed in the O2-saturated solution, indicating apparent electrocatalytic activity towards ORR. [\[51\]](#page-24-16) **Figure 6 b** displayed the LSV curves of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400, MnCo2O4/rGO, MnCo2O4/CNTs, MnCo2O4/C and 20 wt% Pt/C at a scan rate of 5 mV s-1 . The onset potential of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 (0.98 V) was more positive than those of MnCo2O4/rGO (0.94 V), MnCo2O4/CNTs (0.93 V), MnCo2O4/C (0.92 V) and was comparable to that of 20 wt% Pt/C (0.97 V). Furthermore, MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 showed the half-wave potential (E1/2) of 0.81 V, which was obviously superior to those of MnCo2O4/rGO (0.78 V), MnCo2O4/CNTs (0.74V), MnCo2O4/C (0.72 V) and 20 wt% Pt/C (0.80 V). These results reveal that MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 presents the best ORR activity among the series. The catalytic performance of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 is significantly improved by using 3D-G as the support.

The electron transferred number per oxygen molecules of different catalysts at different potentials were shown in **Figure 6 c**. The electron transfer number of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400, MnCo2O4/rGO, MnCo2O4/CNTs and MnCo2O4/C were 3.93, 3.82, 3.77 and 3.7 V at 0.6 V vs. RHE, respectively. When the voltage was at 0.4 V vs. RHE, the electron transfer numbers were 3.96, 3.90, 3.81 and 3.76, respectively. The results indicated that MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst possessed superior selectivity towards ORR process, which favored a four electrons oxygen reduction process. The

Tafel slopes were determined from quasi-stationary experiments. **Figure 6 d** showed the diffusion current-corrected Tafel plots of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400, MnCo2O4/rGO, MnCo2O4/CNTs, MnCo2O4/C and 20 wt% Pt/C. The Tafel slope values were 68.5, 75.4, 84.6, 87.4 and 70.2 mV dec-1 , respectively. The ORR performance of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 was further demonstrated by its smaller Tafel slope of 68.5 m V dec-1 at low overpotential region than 70.2 mV dec-1 of 20 wt% Pt/C, 75.4 m V dec-1 of MnCo2O4/rGO, 84.6 m V dec-1 of MnCo2O4/CNTs and 87.4 mV dec-1 of MnCo2O4/C. The catalysis oxygen reduction performances of different catalysts were shown in **Table S1**. For comparison, ORR performance overview of typical reported MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> catalysts were listed in **Table 1.** The data were extracted from the LSV curves in 0.1 mol L-1 KOH solution and all of the potentials were calculated against a RHE. It can be concluded that MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst exhibited excellent activity for ORR. The above result revealed that the MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst retained the multilayered structure of graphene, which improved the ORR activity. Compared with two dimensional graphene, 3D-G as the support for MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> with 3D porous structure was beneficial to enhance mass transfer for improvement the performance of catalyst.

**Figure 6** Electrochemical performance test of different catalysts (in O2-saturated 0.1 mol L -1 KOH solution, 25 °C, reference electrode: Hg/HgO+0.867 V vs. RHE): (a) CV curves of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 in a N<sup>2</sup> or O<sup>2</sup> saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at a scan rate of 10 mV s-1 . (b) LSV curves of different catalysts. (c) Electron transferred number per oxygen molecules of different catalysts at different potentials. (d) Tafel slops of the electrodes assembly fabricated with different catalysts.

**Table 1** ORR performance overview of typical reported MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> catalysts

| MnCo2O4<br>catalysts    | Eonset<br>V (vs. RHE) | E1/2<br>V (vs. RHE) | Ref.      |
|-------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|-----------|
| MnCo2O4/3D-G-400        | 0.98                  | 0.81                | This work |
| MnCo2O4/N-rGO           | 0.88                  | 0.80                | [52]      |
| MnCo2O4/NCNTs           | 0.89                  | 0.80                | [29]      |
| MnCo2O4/C               | 0.90                  | 0.65                | [24]      |
| MnCo2O4@<br>polypyrrole | 0.97                  | 0.73                | [53]      |

| MnCo2O4/N-rGO            | 0.93 | 0.85 | [28] |
|--------------------------|------|------|------|
| MnCo2O4/NCNTs            | 0.86 | 0.75 | [54] |
| MnCo2O4/porous carbon    | 0.95 | 0.77 | [30] |
| MnCo2O4/N-CNF            | 0.89 | 0.76 | [55] |
| MnCo2O4/defective carbon | 0.88 | 0.80 | [56] |
| MnCo2O4/N-C              | 0.94 | 0.80 | [57] |
| MnCo2O4/N,S-CNT          | 0.88 | 0.75 | [58] |
| Mesoporous MnCo2O4       | 0.95 | 0.82 | [59] |
| MnCo2O4@ NCNTs           | 0.89 | 0.78 | [60] |

The electrocatalytic durability experiments were performed by cyclic voltammogram (CV) and chronoamperometry in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH at 25°C. CV curves of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 and 20 wt% Pt/C were shown in **Figure 7 (a, b)**. It showed that the onset potentials of the CV curves were almost unchanged. After CV scanning for 5000 cycles at a rotating rate of 1600 rpm, the current density loss of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 and 20 wt% Pt/C were 0.26 and 0.38 mA cm-2 , respectively. The results revealed that MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 exhibited better durability than 20 wt% Pt/C. **Figure S7 (a, b)** showed the polarization curve of the first 200 cycles for oxygen reduction. The current density loss of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 and 20 wt% Pt/C were 0.21 and 0.36 mA cm-2 , respectively, from cycle 1 to cycle 200. The results revealed that MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 exhibited the better durability than 20 wt% Pt/C. **Figure 7 (c, d)** were typical current-time (I-t) test for MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 and 20 wt% Pt/C. It revealed the chronoamperometry curve recorded at 0.6 V vs. RHE. The oxygen

reduction currents of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 and 20 wt% Pt/C were decreased by 20.16% and 26.6% after 60 h, respectively. I-t curves showed that the MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 had lower attenuation, which proved that the stability of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 was better than 20 wt% Pt/C. Obviously, these durability test results had demonstrated that MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst exhibited much better durability than 20 wt% Pt/C. The excellent durability result revealed that 3D-G with 3D porous structure has more defects, which contributes to uniformly distribution and evenly deposition of metal oxide NPs on 3D-G surface to increase active sites. The large π bond of 3D-G interacts with the molecular orbital of metal oxide NPs can reinforce the immobilization of MnCo2O<sup>4</sup> on 3D-G to increase activity and durability of the catalyst.

**Figure 7** Cyclic voltammetry curves of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 (a) and 20 wt% Pt/C (b); Current density as a function of time recorded at MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 (c) and 20 wt% Pt/C (d) in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution (T= 25 °C, reference electrode: Hg/HgO+0.867 V vs. RHE).

#### **Conclusions**

MnCo2O4/3D-G catalyst was successfully synthesized through hydrothermal method. 3D-G with a mass ratio of coal tar pitch, MgO and KOH of 6:8:4 and the heat treatment temperature was 800 <sup>o</sup>C. The optimum preparation condition of MnCo2O4/3D-G was that the activation temperature was 400 <sup>o</sup>C. MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst retained the multilayered structure of graphene. The pore sizes of MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 mainly range from 7 nm to 14 nm and the BET surface area of the catalyst was 425.9 m 2 g −1 . Significantly, MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst showed onset potential of 0.98 V vs. RHE and the half-wave potential was 0.81 V vs. RHE in O2-saturated solution of 0.1 M KOH, which was obviously superior to those of 20 wt% Pt/C (0.97 V, 0.80 V), MnCo2O4/rGO (0.94 V, 0.78 V), MnCo2O4/CNTs (0.93 v, 0.74 V) and MnCo2O4/C (0.92 v, 0.72 V). The electron transfer number was 3.96 at 0.4 V vs. RHE, and it catalyzed oxygen reduction mainly following a four-electron process. Furthermore, MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst also possessed remarkably higher durability than 20 wt% Pt/C. The MnCo2O4/3D-G-400 catalyst exhibited superior activity and durability. These results indicated that MnCo2O4/3D-G catalyst can be used as a potential ORR electrocatalyst for fuel cell applications.

#### **Experimental section**

#### **Chemicals and materials**

Cobalt acetate (C4H6CoO4·4H2O, 99 %), manganous acetate (C4H6MnO4·4H2O, 99.5 %) and potassium hydroxide (85 %) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent shanghai Co., Ltd. Pt/C was obtained from American E–TEK Company. Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (purity: >95%) were obtained from JinYang Nanomaterial Co., Ltd. XC-72 carbon black was purchased from Cabot Corporation. Coal tar pitch was acquired from local chemical factory. Nano MgO was gained from Qinhuangdao Taiji Nano Company. All chemicals mentioned above were used as received without further treatment.

#### **Preparation of 3D-G**

Typically, 6 g of coal tar pitch was dissolved in 50 mL of xylene under magnetic stirring for 20 minutes. 8 g of nano MgO (30 nm) and 4 g of KOH were sufficiently ground, and the mixture was added to 30 mL xylene in a 50 mL beaker. Then the above two mixtures were combined evaporated to form the precursor at 120 <sup>o</sup>C under vigorous stirring, and the precursor was dried at 70 °C overnight in drying oven. The obtained brown solid was fully ground and heated at a heating rate of 2 °C min-1 to 800 °C for 2 h under an argon atmosphere. After that, the calcined solid was washed with 10% HCl aqueous solution and deionized water for three times to remove the residues, respectively. Finally, the product was dried at 80 °C for 12 h. The obtained black solid powder was noted as 3D-G (approximately 1.2 g).

### **Preparation of MnCo2O4/3D-G**

Briefly, 0.711 g of 3D-G was dispersed in 10 mL of deionized water under ultrasonication to form a homogenous solution. 2 mmol of C4H6CoO4·4H2O and 1 mmol of C4H6MnO4·4H2O were dissolved in 15 mL of deionized water and mixed with the above 3D-G solution, and 5 mL of NH4OH was added to form the precursor at 80 °C for 20 h under stirring. Then the precursor was transferred into 50 mL of Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave autoclave and heated at 150 °C for 3 h. After that, the precipitates were filtered and washed with deionized water and ethanol, respectively. Finally, the obtained filter cake was dried for 24 h at 60 °C and sintered at 350 °C, 400 °C and 450 °C for 2 h under an argon atmosphere. The as-prepared sample was denoted as MnCo2O4/3D-G-350, MnCo2O4/3D-G-400, MnCo2O4/3D-G-450, respectively.

Graphene oxide was synthesized based on previously reported Hummers' method. [\[61\]](#page-24-26) MnCo2O4/rGO, MnCo2O4/C and MnCo2O4/CNTs were also fabricated in a similar procedure, by employing graphene oxide, carbon black and carbon nanotube as the carbon source, respectively.

#### **Physical characterizations**

The morphologies of the as-prepared were investigated by SEM (SIRION, Netherlands FEI), and the samples were coated with a thin layer of gold for conductivity before observation. HR-TEM measurements were acquired with a transmission electron microscope (JEMe2100, JEOL), and the TEM sample was prepared drop casting a catalyst dispersion onto a copper grid coated with a holey carbon film. XRD patterns were carried out with an X-ray diffractometer (D/max-2200/PC, Japan) with Cu Kα radiation (λ = 0.1541 nm) from 10°to 80°at a scanning rate of 0.1°per second. The surface chemical composition and element valence state of catalysts was characterized by XPS (PHI-5300 ESCA spectrometer, Perkin Elmer Instruments, Waltham, MA). Raman spectra were also collected on Lab RAM HR Evolution Raman spectrometer (HORIBA, Japan) with a laser excitation wavelength of 532 nm. N<sup>2</sup> adsorption analysis was conducted on an ASAP 2020 accelerated surface area and porosimetry instrument (micromeritics, American), equipped with automated surface area, at 77 K using Barrett-Emmett-Teller (BET) calculations for the surface area. The pore size distribution (PSD) plot was recorded from the desorption branch of the isotherm based on the Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) model.

#### **Electrochemical measurements and durability test**

The electrochemical tests were evaluated by the RDE (Perkin Elmer Instruments) technique and electrochemical setup consisting of an Electrochemical Workstation (CHI 660C; CH Instruments, Austin, TX) controlled by a computer. The Pt plate, glassy carbon electrode coated with the as-prepared catalysts and an Hg/HgO were used as the counter, working, and reference electrodes, respectively. To prepare a working electrode, 5 mg of finely ground catalyst were ultrasonically in 0.21 mL ultrapure water (18.23 MΩ cm-1 ) and 0.06 mL of 5 wt % solution of per-fluorinated ion-exchange resin (Nafion, DuPont de Nemours, Wilmington, DE) and 0.03 mL of ethanol for 1 h. Subsequently, 5 μL of catalyst ink was pipetted and spread onto a glassy carbon disk (Ф=3.4 mm). The surface area of the working electrode was 0.1075 cm 2 . Electrochemical measurements were carried out in 0.1 mol L−1 KOH solution saturated with O<sup>2</sup> under quasi-stationary conditions at a sweep rate of 5 mV s −1 at 25 °C. The durability tests of MnCo2O4/3D-G catalysts were conducted by the chronoamperometric measurements and the accelerated durability tests. Cyclic voltammograms were obtained after 30 min of equilibration between consecutive cycles. All of the potentials in this work were converted to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The Hg/HgO reference electrode was calibrated against a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), ERHE = E Hg/HgO+0.14 (V) + 0.059 (PH).[\[62\]](#page-24-27)

#### **Acknowledgments**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant nos. 21776167 and 21276148), the State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering (Tianjin University) (Grant no. SKL-ChE-14B01).

### **References**

- <span id="page-22-0"></span>[1] P. Sun, Z. Li, S. Wang, X. Yin *J Membr Sci*. **2018**, 549, 660-669.
- [2] C. Santoro, R. Gokhale, B. Mecheri, A. D'Epifanio, S. Licoccia, A. Serov, K. Artyushkova, P. Atanassov *Chemsuschem*. **2017**, 10, 3243-3251.
- [3] Y. Tong, P. Chen, T. Zhou, K. Xu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2017**, 56, 7121-7125.
- <span id="page-22-1"></span>[4] P. Yue, Z. Li, S. Wang, Y. Wang *Int J Hydrogen Energ*. **2015**, 40, 6809-6817.
- <span id="page-22-2"></span>[5] H. Shen, E. Gracia‐Espino, J. Ma, K. Zang, J. Luo, L. Wang, S. Gao, X. Mamat, G. Hu, T. Wagberg, S. Guo *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2017**, 56, 13800-13804.
- <span id="page-22-3"></span>[6] X. Lu, Z. Li, X. Yin, S. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Wang *Int J Hydrogen Energ*. **2017**, 42:17504-13.
- [7] Y. Yu, X. Wang, W. Gao, P. Li, W. Yan, S. Wu, Q. Cui, W. Song, K. Ding *J Mater Chem A*. **2017**, 5,

- 6656-6663.
- [8] Y. Jang, K. H. Choi, Y. Chung Dong, E. Lee Ji, N. Jung, Y. E. Sung *Chemsuschem*. **2017**, 10, 3063-3068.
- [9] N. H. Xie, X. H. Yan, B. Q. Xu *Chemsuschem*. **2016**, 9, 2301-2306.
- [10] X. Cui, Z. Hua, L. Chen, X. Zhang, H. Chen, J. Shi *Chemsuschem*. **2016**, 9, 1010-1019.
- <span id="page-23-0"></span>[11] A. Ziani, T. Shinagawa, L. Stegenburga, K. Takanabe *ACS Appl Mater Inter*. **2016**, 8, 32376-32384.
- <span id="page-23-1"></span>[12] G. Xu, Z. Li, S. Wang, X. Yu *J Power Sources*. **2010**, 195, 4731-4735.
- <span id="page-23-2"></span>[13] W. Zhang, W. Lai, R. Cao *Chemical Reviews*. **2017**, 117, 3717-3797.
- <span id="page-23-3"></span>[14] X. Zhou, P. Xu, L. Xu, Z. Bai, Z. Chen, J. Qiao, J. Zhang *J Power Sources*. **2014**, 260, 349-356.
- <span id="page-23-4"></span>[15] Y. Lu, X. Wang, M. Wang, L. Kong, J. Zhao *Electrochim Acta*. **2015**, 180, 86-95.
- <span id="page-23-5"></span>[16] W.-J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L.-J. Zhang, J.-Q. Wang, J.-S. Hu, Z. Wei, L.-J. Wan *J Am Chem Soc*. **2016**, 138, 3570-3578.
- <span id="page-23-6"></span>[17] M. Chabu Johnny, L. Wang, F. Y. Tang, K. Zeng, J. Sheng, D. Walle Maru, L. Deng, Y. N. Liu *ChemElectroChem*. **2017**, 4, 1885-1890.
- [18] J. C. Li, P. X. Hou, C. Liu *Small*. **2017**, 13, 1702002.
- [19] M. Zhou, H.-L. Wang, S. Guo *Chem Soc Rev*. **2016**, 45, 1273-1307.
- <span id="page-23-7"></span>[20] S. T. Hunt, M. Milina, A. C. Alba-Rubio, C. H. Hendon, J. A. Dumesic, Y. Román-Leshkov *Science*. **2016**, 352, 974.
- <span id="page-23-8"></span>[21] K. Elumeeva, A. Kazakova Mariya, M. Morales Dulce, D. Medina, A. Selyutin, G. Golubtsov, Y. Ivanov, V. Kuznetzov, A. Chuvilin, H. Antoni, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, J. Masa *Chemsuschem*. **2018**, 11, 1204-1214.
- <span id="page-23-9"></span>[22] Z. Zhang, Z. Li, C. Sun, T. Zhang, S. Wang *Catal Today*. **2017**, 298, 241-249.
- <span id="page-23-10"></span>[23] R. Li, D. Zhou, J. Luo, W. Xu, J. Li, S. Li, P. Cheng, D. Yuan *J Power Sources*. **2017**, 341, 250-256.
- <span id="page-23-11"></span>[24] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, N. R. Sahraie, A. Bergmann, P. Strasser, M. Driess *Chemsuschem*. **2015**, 8, 164-171.
- <span id="page-23-12"></span>[25] U. Lee Dong, J. Li, G. Park Moon, H. Seo Min, W. Ahn, I. Stadelmann, L. Ricardez‐Sandoval, Z. Chen *Chemsuschem*. **2017**, 10, 2258-2266.
- <span id="page-23-13"></span>[26] Q. Zhao, Z. Yan, C. Chen, J. Chen *Chemical Reviews*. **2017**, 117, 10121-10211.
- <span id="page-23-14"></span>[27] X. Cao, J. Wu, C. Jin, J. Tian, P. Strasser, R. Yang *ACS Catal*. **2015**, 5, 4890-4896.
- <span id="page-23-15"></span>[28] Y. Liang, H. Wang, J. Zhou, Y. Li, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai *J Am Chem Soc*. **2012**, 134, 3517-3523.
- <span id="page-23-16"></span>[29] A. Zhao, J. Masa, W. Xia, A. Maljusch, M.-G. Willinger, G. Clavel, K. Xie, R. Schlögl, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler *J Am Chem Soc*. **2014**, 136, 7551-7554.
- <span id="page-23-17"></span>[30] G. Fu, Z. Liu, J. Zhang, J. Wu, L. Xu, D. Sun, J. Zhang, Y. Tang, P. Chen *Nano Research*. **2016**, 9, 2110-2122.
- <span id="page-23-18"></span>[31] S. Al-Rubaye, R. Rajagopalan, C. M. Subramaniyam, Z. Yu, S. X. Dou, Z. Cheng *J Power Sources*. **2016**, 324, 179-187.
- <span id="page-23-19"></span>[32] W.-H. Hu, X. Shang, G.-Q. Han, B. Dong, Y.-R. Liu, X. Li, Y.-M. Chai, Y.-Q. Liu, C.-G. Liu *Carbon*. **2016**, 100, 236-242.
- <span id="page-23-20"></span>[33] X. Yang, A. Liu, Y. Zhao, H. Lu, Y. Zhang, W. Wei, Y. Li, S. Liu *ACS Appl Mater Inter*. **2015**, 7, 23731-23740.
- <span id="page-23-21"></span>[34] X. H. Xia, D. L. Chao, Y. Q. Zhang, Z. X. Shen, H. J. Fan *Nano Today*. **2014**, 9, 785-807.

- <span id="page-24-0"></span>[35] B. B. Lakshmi, C. R. Martin *Nature*. **1997**, 388, 758-760.
- <span id="page-24-1"></span>[36] W. Li, S. Gao, L. Wu, S. Qiu, Y. Guo, X. Geng, M. Chen, S. Liao, C. Zhu, Y. Gong, M. Long, J. Xu, X. Wei, M. Sun, L. Liu *Sci Rep-Uk*. **2013**, 3, 2125.
- <span id="page-24-2"></span>[37] X.-j. He, X.-j. Li, X.-t. Wang, N. Zhao, M.-x. Yu, M.-b. Wu *New Carbon Mater*. **2014**, 29, 493-502.
- <span id="page-24-3"></span>[38] C. Sun, Z. Li, X. Zhong, S. Wang, X. Yin, L. Wang *J Electrochem Soc*. **2018**, 165, F24-F31.
- <span id="page-24-4"></span>[39] J. Wang, S. Kaskel *J Mater Chem*. **2012**, 22, 23710-23725.
- <span id="page-24-5"></span>[40] Z.-S. Wu, Y. Sun, Y.-Z. Tan, S. Yang, X. Feng, K. Müllen *J Am Chem Soc*. **2012**, 134, 19532-19535.
- <span id="page-24-6"></span>[41] C. Fu, G. Li, D. Luo, X. Huang, J. Zheng, L. Li *ACS Appl Mater Inter*. **2014**, 6, 2439-2449.
- <span id="page-24-7"></span>[42] S. Ma, L. Sun, L. Cong, X. Gao, C. Yao, X. Guo, L. Tai, P. Mei, Y. Zeng, H. Xie, R. Wang *The J Phys Chem C*. **2013**, 117, 25890-25897.
- <span id="page-24-8"></span>[43] K. N. Hui, K. S. Hui, Z. Tang, V. V. Jadhav, Q. X. Xia *J Power Sources*. **2016**, 330, 195-203.
- <span id="page-24-9"></span>[44] C.-S. Li, Y. Sun, W.-H. Lai, J.-Z. Wang, S.-L. Chou *ACS Appl Mater Inter*. **2016**, 8, 27710-27719.
- <span id="page-24-10"></span>[45] Y. Li, J. Yang, J. Huang, Y. Zhou, K. Xu, N. Zhao, X. Cheng *Carbon*. **2017**, 122, 237-246.
- <span id="page-24-11"></span>[46] M. V. Reddy, Y. Xu, V. Rajarajan, T. Ouyang, B. V. R. Chowdari *ACS Sustain Chem Eng*. **2015**, 3, 3035-3042.
- <span id="page-24-12"></span>[47] Y. Dong, Y. Wang, Y. Xu, C. Chen, Y. Wang, L. Jiao, H. Yuan *Electrochim Acta*. **2017**, 225, 39-46.
- <span id="page-24-13"></span>[48] L. Zhang, Q. Tang, X. Chen, B. Fan, K. Xiao, S. Zhang, W. Deng, A. Hu *J Alloy Compd*. **2017**, 722, 387-393.
- <span id="page-24-14"></span>[49] H. Gong, H. Xue, T. Wang, H. Guo, X. Fan, L. Song, W. Xia, J. He *ACS Appl Mater Inter*. **2016**, 8, 18060-18068.
- <span id="page-24-15"></span>[50] D. Liu, C. Fu, N. Zhang, H. Zhou, Y. Kuang *Electrochim Acta*. **2016**, 213, 291-297.
- <span id="page-24-16"></span>[51] L. Wang, Z. Tang, W. Yan, Q. Wang, H. Yang, S. Chen *J Power Sources*. **2017**, 343, 458-466.
- <span id="page-24-17"></span>[52] X. Ge, Y. Liu, F. W. T. Goh, T. S. A. Hor, Y. Zong, P. Xiao, Z. Zhang, S. H. Lim, B. Li, X. Wang, Z. Liu *ACS Appl Mater Inter*. **2014**, 6, 12684-12691.
- <span id="page-24-18"></span>[53] X. Cao, W. Yan, C. Jin, J. Tian, K. Ke, R. Yang *Electrochim Acta*. **2015**, 180, 788-794.
- <span id="page-24-19"></span>[54] S. Yuvaraj, A. Vignesh, S. Shanmugam, R. Kalai Selvan *Int J Hydrogen Energ*. **2016**, 41, 15199-15207.
- <span id="page-24-20"></span>[55] C. Xu, M. Lu, Y. Zhan, J. Y. Lee *Rsc Adv*. **2014**, 4, 25089-25092.
- <span id="page-24-21"></span>[56] X. Yan, Y. Jia, J. Chen, Z. Zhu, X. Yao *Adv Mater*. **2016**, 28, 8771-8778.
- <span id="page-24-22"></span>[57] W. Fu, X. L. Wang, X. X. Yang, X. Q. He *ChemistrySelect*. **2018**, 3, 4228-4236.
- <span id="page-24-23"></span>[58] X. Chen, R. Li, J. Wang, Q. Zhong, Y. Bu *ChemistrySelect*. **2016**, 1, 2159-2162.
- <span id="page-24-24"></span>[59] W. Wang, L. Kuai, W. Cao, M. Huttula, S. Ollikkala, T. Ahopelto, A. P. Honkanen, S. Huotari, M. Yu, B. Geng *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2017**, 56, 14977-14981.
- <span id="page-24-25"></span>[60] T. Zhao, S. Gadipelli, G. He, J. Ward Matthew, D. Do, P. Zhang, Z. Guo *Chemsuschem*. **2018**, 11, 1295-1304.
- <span id="page-24-26"></span>[61] J. Chen, Y. Li, L. Huang, C. Li, G. Shi *Carbon*. **2015**, 81, 826-834.
- <span id="page-24-27"></span>[62] K. R. Yoon, J. Choi, S.-H. Cho, J.-W. Jung, C. Kim, J. Y. Cheong, I.-D. Kim *J Power Sources*. **2018**, 380, 174-184.