---
source: Zhang 等 - 2022 - Oxygen‐Rich Cobalt–Nitrogen–Carbon Porous Nanosheets for Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysis.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.914s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:03:55.043421Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

# **Oxygen-Rich Cobalt–Nitrogen–Carbon Porous Nanosheets for Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysis**

*Wang Zhang,\* Chen-Hui Xu, Han Zheng, Rui Li,\* and Kun Zhou\**

**Metal–nitrogen–carbon (M–N–C) materials have attracted much interest in bifunctional oxygen-involving electrocatalysis for rechargeable Zn–air batteries. Such M–N–C electrocatalysts with M–N***x* **sites show good activity for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) but moderate activity for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Herein, an oxygen-rich M–N–C material (O–Co–N/C) with a highly porous nanosheet structure is reported as a bifunctional oxygen electrocatalyst, which is prepared by the direct pyrolysis of ultrathin CoO nanosheets decorated with zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 nanoparticles under an inert atmosphere. Particularly, Co nanoparticles in the O–Co–N/C electrocatalyst contain both Co–N***x* **and Co–O***x* **coordination environments to provide intrinsic active sites for the ORR and OER, respectively. Furthermore, electrochemical studies show that the O–Co–N/C catalyst retains comparable ORR activity to common M–N–C materials with a half-wave potential of 0.85 V vs the reversible hydrogen electrode and better OER activity with an overpotential of 0.29 V at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . This study provides insights into the development of effective oxygen-involving electrocatalysts with bifunctional metal active centers coordinated by both nitrogen and oxygen atoms.**

W. Zhang, C.-H. Xu College of Materials Science and Engineering Zhejiang University of Technology Hangzhou 310014, China E-mail: zhangwang@zjut.edu.cn W. Zhang, H. Zheng, K. Zhou Environmental Process Modelling Centre Nanyang Environment and Water Research Institute Nanyang Technological University 1 Cleantech Loop, Singapore 637141, Singapore E-mail: kzhou@ntu.edu.sg R. Li College of Environment Zhejiang University of Technology Hangzhou 310014, China

E-mail: lirui9966@zjut.edu.cn R. Li, K. Zhou Singapore Centre for 3D Printing School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Nanyang Technological University 50 Nanyang Avenue, Singapore 639798, Singapore

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202200763.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202200763**

*Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200763

## **1. Introduction**

The development of bifunctional electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is vital to improving the air electrode performance in reversible energyconversion and storage systems, such as rechargeable Zn–air batteries.[1–3] Because the two oxygen-involving electrochemical reactions suffer from complex electron transfer steps and sluggish reaction kinetics, numerous studies have been devoted to the exploration of highly efficient electrocatalysts to accelerate the reaction processes and reduce the overpotential.[4–7] In an alkaline environment, the state-of-the-art electrocatalysts include commercial Pt/C and transition-metalbased nanomaterials with active octahedral M–O*x* units for the ORR and OER, respectively, but the use of these electrocatalysts can only promote one of the reactions.[8]

Recently, transition metal–nitrogen–carbon (M–N–C) materials have emerged as promising bifunctional catalysts for the two electrochemical reaction processes.[9] On the one hand, the M–N–C materials can achieve a performance better than or comparable to that of the Pt/C catalyst for ORR, which is attributed to the active transition metal centers coordinated by nitrogen atoms, such as Co–N*x* and Fe–N*x* units.[10–13] On the other hand, they merely show moderate activity for the OER in contrast to pure OER electrocatalysts reported in previous studies, because the real active species with M–O*x* units originated from oxides/ hydroxides produced from metal sites on the surface of M–N–C materials in alkaline solutions during the electrochemical processes.[14,15] Therefore, the intrinsic lack of activity toward the OER leads to high overpotentials. Generally, the difference (Δ*E*) between the potential versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE) at the current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (*Ej* <sup>=</sup> 10) for the OER and the half-wave potential vs RHE for the ORR is used to evaluate the activity of bifunctional catalysts. In recent reports, the Δ*E* values of M–N–C materials were calculated to be around 0.7 V or even higher.[16–26] It is still a challenge to develop highperformance bifunctional catalysts, especially those that can achieve a low overpotential for the OER.

Zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs), a well-known subclass of metal–organic frameworks (MOFs), act as excellent precursors for the preparation of M–N–C catalysts owing to their

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

abundant N-containing ligands and active metal elements.[27–34] The morphology, structure, porosity, and active metal content of ZIF-based precursors can be easily controlled by many synthetic strategies to achieve accelerated charge and mass transport, accessible active M–N*x* sites, as well as optimized M–N*<sup>x</sup>* coordination configurations in the ZIF-derived M–N–C catalysts.[9,27] Despite the certain catalytic performance of M–N–C catalysts having been improved to some extent, the overpotentials for OER are higher than 0.3 V at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> owing to the lack of intrinsic M–O*x* active sites.[35–44] It is attributed to the absence of oxygen elements in ZIF-based precursors. Therefore, the incorporation of oxygen-rich materials into the precursors is a promising strategy to create highly active sites for the OER while maintaining excellent ORR performance. However, as far as we know, there are few studies on the oxygen-rich M–N–C materials for the development of bifunctional oxygen catalysts.

Herein, we present oxygen-rich cobalt–nitrogen–carbon (O– Co–N/C) materials with a highly porous nanosheet structure to be employed as a bifunctional oxygen electrocatalyst, which is prepared from the direct pyrolysis of ultrathin CoO nanosheets coated by ZIF-8 nanoparticles under inert atmosphere. Particularly, Co nanoparticles in the O–Co–N/C materials contain both Co–N*x* and Co–O*x* coordination environments to provide intrinsic active sites for the ORR and OER, respectively. Meanwhile, the matrix of porous carbon nanosheets offers more accessible active metal sites, good conductivity, and fast mass transport. Benefiting from the above advantages, the O–Co–N/C nanosheets present excellent ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.85 V vs RHE and enhanced OER activity with an overpotential of 0.29 V at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, achieving a lower Δ*E* value of 0.67 V than the controlled sample Co–N/C without oxygen doping and previously reported M–N–C catalysts obtained from other ZIF precursors.[23–26,35–44] Furthermore, the rechargeable Zn–air battery assembled by an air cathode with the O–Co–N/C electrocatalyst and an Znplate anode exhibits excellent electrocatalytic performance by showing a higher power density of 143 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and better long-term charge/discharge cycling stability than rechargeable Zn–air batteries assembled by the benchmark noble-metal catalysts (a mixture of Pt/C and RuO2). This work not only provides a templated synthesis method for oxygen-rich M–N–C materials with high porosity and ultrathin nanosheet morphology, but also brings a new insight into the incorporation of oxygen into M–N–C materials containing Co–N*x* and Co–O*x* coordination environments for the development of bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The schematic preparation route of O–Co–N/C nanosheets is described in **Figure 1**a, which is based on the template-directed growth of CoO@ZIF-8 nanosheets and subsequent pyrolysis treatment. Such an ultrathin 2D template-induced method is a straightforward manner to prepare MOF-based composite nanosheets.[45,46] The evolution of morphology and structure from the CoO nanosheet template to the resulting O–Co–N/C nanosheets were investigated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and powder X-ray diffraction (XRD). First, the ultrathin CoO template was prepared as previously reported[47] and its crystalline structure was confirmed by the XRD pattern, in which the dominant peaks located at 31.2° and 57.4° were assigned to the (100) and (110) planes of CoO,[48] respectively (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The nanosheet morphology of the CoO template was clearly observed by TEM and atomic force microscopy (AFM) (Figure 1b and Figure S2, Supporting Information). The average thickness of CoO nanosheets was ≈3 nm estimated from the AFM results. Then, CoO@ZIF-8 nanosheets were obtained by immersing the CoO nanosheet template into a ZIF-8 precursor solution at room temperature under mild magnetic stirring. The powder XRD pattern of CoO@ZIF-8 matched the simulated ZIF-8 standard pattern well (Figure S1, Supporting Information), which comprises nanoparticles with a size of about 50 nm uniformly coated on the surface of ultrathin CoO nanosheets (Figure 1c and Figure S3, Supporting Information). Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) was carried out to map all elements in the CoO@ZIF-8 nanosheets. The dark-field TEM image and the uniform distribution of Co, O, Zn, N, and C elements further confirmed the ZIF-8 nanoparticles well coated on the CoO nanosheets (Figure S4, Supporting Information).

After the heat treatment at 900 °C for 3 h under inert atmosphere, the CoO@ZIF-8 nanosheets were converted into the

**Figure 1.** a) Illustration of the preparation steps of O–Co–N/C nanosheets. I) Growing ZIF-8 nanoparticles on the surface of CoO nanosheets; II) Carbonization of CoO@ZIF-8 nanosheets at 900 °C under inert gas protection. b–d) TEM images of CoO, CoO@ZIF-8, and O–Co–N/C nanosheets.

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** a,b) SEM images of O–Co–N/C. c,d) Magnification TEM and HRTEM images of a local O–Co–N/C nanosheet. e,f) Dark-field TEM image and the corresponding element mapping of O–Co–N/C.

resulting O–Co–N/C nanosheets, which were constructed by porous carbon nanosheets embedded with Co nanoparticles (Figure 1d). The presence of metal Co substance was further confirmed by the powder XRD results (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The dominant peaks located at 44.5°, 51.8°, and 76.1° were assigned to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of Co metal, respectively. In the heat treatment step, a dual process of dissolving the CoO template and pyrolyzing ZIF-8 nanoparticles occurred simultaneously. ZIF-8 nanoparticles on the surface of the CoO template were carbonized to form the porous oxygen-rich N-doped carbon matrix, in which the sheet morphology and abundant oxygen element were inherited from CoO, while the CoO template was reduced into metal Co nanoparticles which were embedded into the ZIF-8-derived carbon matrix.

The as-prepared O–Co–N/C was further investigated to understand its components, structure, and the coordination environment of the metal center. As shown by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images in **Figure 2**a, the nanosheet morphology of O–Co–N/C with sizes of a few micrometers can be further verified. The surface of nanosheets is decorated with many nanoparticles with sizes of several nanometers, which is revealed by the high-magnification SEM and TEM images in Figure 2b,c. The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image shows the nanoparticle with a lattice spacing of 0.20 nm corresponding to the (111) plane of Co metal (Figure 2d), which is in good agreement with the powder XRD result. The (002) facet of carbon with a lattice spacing of 0.34 nm indicates the partial graphitization of derived carbon near the Co nanoparticles. The dark-field TEM image in Figure 2e shows the distribution of Co nanoparticles on the surface of carbon nanosheets. The EDS elemental mapping images exhibit the presence of Co, O, N, and C elements and their distribution in an O–Co–N/C nanosheet (Figure 2f).

The porosity of O–Co–N/C was estimated by nitrogen adsorption–desorption isotherm (**Figure 3**a), which exhibited IV-type curves with the presence of micropores and mesopores. The pore diameter showed a wide distribution in the mesoporous range (inset in Figure 3a), which is attributed to the evaporation of the Zn element and the stacking of nanosheets. A large Brunauer–Emmett–Teller surface area of 424 m2 g−<sup>1</sup> for O–Co–N/C suggests that the porous carbon matrix not only provides high conductivity for charge transfer but also efficiently increases the exposure of active sites.

To further understand the mechanism of the as-prepared O–Co–N/C electrocatalyst, its detailed elemental composition and the electronic states as well as the effect of N and O doping were investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The survey spectrum revealed the presence of Co, N, O, and C elements (Figure S5, Supporting Information), in which carbon was the main element, together with a small amount of other elements in O–Co–N/C. The content of C, Co, N, and O

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 3.** a) Nitrogen adsorption–desorption isotherm and the corresponding pore size distribution (inset) of O–Co–N/C. b–d) High-resolution XPS spectra of N1s, C1s, and Co 2p for O–Co–N/C.

in atomic percentage was estimated to be 86.9%, 3.0%, 2.9%, and 7.2%, respectively (Table S1, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 3b, the high-resolution N 1s spectrum shows four dominant types of N species containing pyridinic-N (≈398.5 eV), pyrrolic-N (≈400.5 eV), graphitic-N (≈401.1 eV), and pyridinic N–O (≈401.9 eV), indicating that the main component of O–Co–N/C is N-doped carbon-containing oxygen.[49] The presence of Co–N*x* with the peak located at 399.6 eV confirms the successful synthesis of the Co–N–C material. The high-resolution C1s spectrum in Figure 3c can be deconvoluted into four peaks for sp2-hybridized carbon (≈284.4 eV), CN bonds (≈285.2 eV), CO bands (≈286.3 eV), and CO group (≈288.9 eV),[50] suggesting the co-existence of N and O elements doped into the carbon matrix. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 3d, the two pairs of 2p3/2/2p1/2 doublets in the Co2p spectrum can be deconvoluted into the metallic Co, Co–N*x,* and Co–O*x* species located at 778.3/793.4 eV, 783.8/796.6 eV, and 780.8/795.1 eV, respectively.[14] The above results confirm the doped carbon matrix embedded with Co nanoparticles that contain the Co–N and Co–O bonds with the intrinsic catalytic activity for the ORR and OER, respectively.

To investigate the role of oxygen, a controlled sample (Co– N/C) with a lower oxygen content was prepared by annealing the same CoO@ZIF-8 precursor at 900 °C for 3 h under an H2/Ar gas atmosphere. The morphological comparison of O–Co–N/C and Co–N/C showed similar porous nanosheets embedded with uniformly distributed Co nanoparticles by TEM images (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The structural features of derived carbon support for O–Co–N/C and Co–N/C were analyzed by Raman spectroscopy, in which the dominant peaks located at 1338 and 1588 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are attributed to the D-band and G-band for the disorder/defective and graphitic carbon, respectively. The O–Co–N/C and Co–N/C had a close value of *I*D*/I*G, suggesting a similar structure of the derived carbon supports with and without oxygen doping (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The XPS spectra further confirmed the same chemical composition and valence states of elements in O–Co–N/C and Co–N/C (Figure S8, Supporting Information). However, the atomic percent of oxygen in Co–N/C is 3.3%, which is smaller than that in O–Co–N/C (7.2%) (Table S1, Supporting Information). It is confirmed that the consumption of oxygen is under a reducing atmosphere, resulting in the weakened Co–O*x* coordination environments in Co–N/C. The presence of residual oxygen in Co–N/C can be attributed to the adsorbed water and carbon dioxide molecules on the porous carbon matrix. The mass percent of Co in O–Co–N/C and Co–N/C is estimated to be 58.1% and 54.8%, respectively, by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry. Therefore, the Co–N/C is an ideal controlled sample for discussing and understanding the influence of oxygen in M–N–C materials in bifunctional oxygen electrocatalytic studies.

For electrochemical studies, the as-prepared sample powder was ultrasonically dispersed in ethanol solution with a certain amount of Nafion to prepare a catalyst ink. For ORR tests, the rotating disk electrode (RDE) measurement was conducted in a typical three-electrode system with N2- and O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH electrolytes. As shown in **Figure 4**a, the cyclic voltammogram (CV) curve of O–Co–N/C in an N2-saturated electrolyte

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** a) CV curves of O–Co–N/C in N2- and O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. b) ORR polarization curves of O–Co–N/C, Co–N/C, and Pt/C catalysts recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and electrode rotation speed of 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. c) LSV curves of O–Co–N/C at the different rotation rates. The inset shows the electron transfer number under different potentials. d) OER polarization curves of O–Co–N/C, Co–N/C, and RuO2 catalysts recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in O2-saturated 1 m KOH. e) EIS of O–Co–N/C, Co–N/C, and RuO2 catalysts measured at 1.53 V vs RHE for OER studies. f) Chronoamperometric responses of O–Co–N/C recorded at 0.8 V vs RHE in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH at rotating speed of 1000 rpm for ORR and at 1.53 V vs RHE in O2-saturated 1 m KOH for OER.

shows nearly a rectangular shape without any redox peaks in the potential window, whereas its CV curve presents a pronounced peak at 0.81 V vs RHE in an O2-saturated electrolyte, suggesting the promising ORR activity of O–Co–N/C. Furthermore, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves scanned at 1600 rpm in Figure 4b confirm the high ORR activity of O–Co–N/C with a half-wave potential of 0.85 V vs RHE and a limiting current density of 5.2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is comparable to the commercial Pt/C catalyst (a half-wave potential of 0.84 V vs RHE and a limiting current density of 5.8 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Interestingly, the polarization curve of Co–N/C shows the same half-wave potential and limiting current density as O–Co–N/C, suggesting the negligible influence of oxygen doping. In fact, in addition to Co–N/C materials, cobalt oxide is also considered as a promising ORR catalyst,[51,52] and the negligible effect of oxygendoped carbon on the ORR is often overlooked.[53] Therefore, the presence of oxygen in O–Co–N/C does not affect the activity of the ORR in such oxygen-rich M–N–C materials. According to LSV measurements at different rotation speeds ranging from 400 to 2400 rpm (Figure 4c) and the corresponding Koutecky– Levich plots (Figure S9, Supporting Information), the electron transfer number (*n*) is estimated to be ≈4 at 0.3 to 0.7 V vs RHE for O–Co–N/C, suggesting a four-electron pathway in the ORR reaction process (inset in Figure 4c).

For OER tests, the O–Co–N/C catalyst was deposited on a carbon cloth substrate by a drop-casting method, and the polarization curves were collected in an O2-saturated 1 m KOH electrolyte at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with 95% iR-correction. Commercial RuO2 and Co–N/C catalysts were also investigated for comparison under the same test environment. As shown in Figure 4d, Co–N/C shows a moderate OER performance with the overpotential of 0.33 V at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , which is in agreement with the electrocatalytic performance of common M–N–C materials.[35–44] In contrast, the O–Co–N/C catalyst exhibits a lower overpotential of 0.29 V at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which surpassed the performance of the benchmark RuO2 and Co–N/C catalysts. Therefore, the O–Co–N/C catalyst offers a low Δ*E* value of 0.67 V compared with most M–N–C-based bifunctional oxygen catalysts (Table S2, Supporting Information).[23–26,35–44] Furthermore, the Tafel slope of O–Co–N/C (86 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) is much smaller than those of RuO2 (133 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) and Co–N/C (99 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) (Figure S10, Supporting Information), suggesting a favorable reaction kinetic process and better electrocatalytic OER activity. According to the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) results in Figure 4e, the charge transfer resistance values of O–Co–N/C are fitted to be 10.71 Ω, which is lower than those of RuO2 (20.03 Ω) and Co–N/C (100.98 Ω), further confirming that O–Co–N/C has small charge transfer resistance and fast electrode reaction kinetics. These results undoubtedly verify the enhanced OER performance of O–Co–N/C, which is attributed to the formation of Co–O*x* units as the intrinsic OER active centers for the OER. The long-term durability of O–Co–N/C was further confirmed for both the ORR and OER. As shown in

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4f, the current–time chronoamperometric measurement shows the excellent durability of O–Co–N/C with 92% and 95% current retention after a 65 000 s continuous test for the ORR and OER, respectively.

Overall, the oxygen electrocatalytic studies clearly indicate that the introduction of oxygen in M–N–C materials retains the high ORR activity and enhances the OER activity based on the active metal centers coordinated by both nitrogen and oxygen atoms. Such oxygen-rich M–N–C materials exhibit different catalytic mechanisms during the electrocatalytic ORR and OER processes. For the ORR, the activity and electron transfer number of O–Co–N/C are the same as those of Co–N/C, indicating a consistent four-electron catalytic pathway. The results reveal that the presence of oxygen has a negligible influence on the Co–N*x* active center. For the OER, it is well known that the real active center is octahedral M–O*x* units.[54–56] In this system, the presence of oxygen can offer an oxygen coordination environment around the metal Co center to form Co–O*x* units as intrinsic OER active sites, enabling a higher performance of O– Co–N/C than that of Co–N/C. Therefore, the main contribution of oxygen is to enhance the OER properties of M–N–C materials by constructing intrinsic active sites.

Note that the CoO@ZIF precursors and calcination temperature have been optimized for the preparation of the resulting O–Co–N/C nanosheets. When a lower concentration of zinc nitrate hexahydrate and 2-methylimidazole was used in the synthesis process, the product retained the nanosheet morphology and was coated with smaller ZIF-8 nanoparticles (Figure S11a, Supporting Information). The low loading of ZIF-8 meant the reduced content of carbonous sources, resulting in the formation of bulk metal particles on the derived carbon nanosheets after the high-temperature treatment (Figure S11b, Supporting Information). Therefore, weak ORR and OER activity was observed (Figure S11c,d, Supporting Information). On the other hand, the high loading of ZIF-8 leads to the fragmentized structure of intermediate CoO@ZIF-8 owing to the excessive size of ZIF-8 (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Although ZIF-67 was widely employed to prepare M–N–C materials for bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts and rechargeable Zn–air batteries,[40–42] we chose ZIF-8 as the precursor in this work based on the following reasons. In our synthesis system, the ultrathin CoO nanosheet templates can offer enough Co source to form active centers. If ZIF-67 is chosen as a precursor rather than ZIF-8, it may result in excessive cobalt content in the final product and the formation of large particles. On the other hand, our consideration is the size control of ZIF nanoparticles. The size of ZIF-8 can be easily controlled to form a uniform sandwich structure by adjusting the concentration of metal ions and ligands. In addition, ZIF-8-derived carbon has a higher porosity than ZIF-67-derived carbon. Furthermore, ZIF-67 was used to prepare CoO@ZIF-67 and its derivative for comparing (Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information).

In addition to the O–Co–N/C prepared at 900 °C, we have further supplemented samples prepared at 800 and 1000 °C (denoted as O–Co–N/C-800 and O–Co–N/C-1000, respectively) to investigate the influence of the calcination temperature. The results confirmed that the O–Co–N/C catalyst prepared at 900 °C is the optimized sample that achieves the best performance for the ORR and OER (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information).

**Figure 5.** a) Diagram of a rechargeable Zn–air battery. b) Open-circuit voltage test , c) discharge/charge polarization and power density curves, d) galvanostatic discharge curves recorded at the current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and e) galvanostatic discharge/charge cycling curves recorded at a current density of 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Zn–air batteries constructed with O–Co–N/C and Pt/C + RuO2. f) Galvanostatic cycling stability test of a Zn–air battery constructed with O–Co–N/C.

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

To further investigate the practical application of the O– Co–N/C catalyst, homemade rechargeable Zn–air batteries were assembled, which comprise a gas diffusion substrate coated with the catalyst as the air cathode and a polished zinc plate as the anode (**Figure 5**a) in a 6.0 m KOH electrolyte with 0.2 m Zn(CH3COO)2. Meanwhile, a control catalyst was prepared by mixing Pt/C and RuO2 with a mass ratio of 1:1 and tested under the same condition for comparison. As shown in Figure 5b, the O–Co–N/C-based battery delivers a higher open-circuit voltage of 1.47 V than the precious-metal-based battery (1.45 V). Figure 5c shows the charge/discharge polarization and corresponding power density curves of the assembled batteries, in which the O–Co–N/C-based battery has a smaller charge–discharge gap of 1.09 V at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> than the precious-metalbased battery (1.17 V at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ). Meanwhile, the maximum power density of the O–Co–N/C-based battery is as high as 143 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 222 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , which is higher than that of the precious-metal-based battery (127 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 185 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). These results indicate the better ORR activity of O–Co–N/C than that of the commercial Pt/C catalyst, which is in agreement with the results of the RDE measurement.

Moreover, the galvanostatic discharge test was operated at a current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , and the specific capacity of the assembled Zn–air batteries was estimated in terms of the mass loss of the Zn plate. As shown in Figure 5d, the specific capacities of the assembled batteries based on O–Co–N/C and precious-metal catalysts are 785 and 762 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , respectively. The charge/discharge cycle performance was investigated by a galvanostatic charge/discharge test at the current density of 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 5e). The O–Co–N/C-based battery shows the charge/discharge voltage gap of 0.773 V for the first cycle, which is smaller than that of the precious-metal-based battery (0.822 V), further confirming the remarkable bifunctional oxygen electrocatalytic performance of the O–Co–N/C catalyst. As shown in Figure 5f, the continuous charge/discharge stability test of O–Co–N/C-based battery exhibits a narrow charge/ discharge gap of 0.722 V after 150 h, suggesting good long-term cyclability. All these above results indicate the excellent performance of the O–Co–N/C material for the ORR and OER as well as rechargeable Zn–air batteries.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, an oxygen-rich M–N–C material was prepared by pyrolyzing ZIF-8 nanoparticle-coated CoO ultrathin nanosheets. Benefiting from the active center with intrinsic Co–N–C and Co–O–C, and the carbon supporter with ultrathin and porous structure, the as-prepared O–Co–N/C catalyst retains similar ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.85 V vs RHE (0.1 m KOH, 1600 rpm) and better OER activity with an overpotential of 0.29 V at the current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (1.0 m KOH) when compared with other M–N–C materials without oxygen doping. Moreover, the excellent bifunctional oxygen electrocatalytic property of O–Co–N/C with a low Δ*E* value of 0.67 V ensures the expected high performance for the air electrode of a rechargeable Zn–air battery, which exhibits a smaller charge/discharge voltage gap of 0.773 V at a current density of 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, a higher power density of 785 mAh g−<sup>1</sup> , and good long-term rechargeable stability (more than 150 h) when compared with a precious-metal-based battery.

In contrast to the conventional M–N–C materials, one significant advantage of such oxygen-rich M–N–C materials is that they can enhance the OER activity while maintaining high ORR activity owing to the presence of intrinsic Co–N*x* and Co–O*<sup>x</sup>* active sites for the ORR and OER, respectively. However, there are still some questions regarding the material synthesis and mechanism study. The content of oxygen in O–Co–N/C is difficult to control because oxygen combines with carbon to form small gaseous molecules (such as carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide) during the carbonization process of carbonaceous precursors. Meanwhile, the oxygen electrocatalytic process on metal active sites with both nitrogen and oxygen coordination environments is not clear because the nanoparticle-based system is too complex to construct a structural model for calculation studies. Therefore, it is worth designing and preparing a few (even single) atomic metal centers coordinated by both nitrogen and oxygen for theoretical studies, which can help understand the role of oxygen in oxygen-rich M–N–C materials for the development of highly efficient bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts.

The present work not only offers insights into the beneficial effect of oxygen-rich structure in M–N–C materials, but also provides a feasible method to prepare highly efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts with porous and ultrathin carbon matrix and homogeneous metal nanoparticles for more energy-conversion related applications.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22075248), the Leading Innovative and Entrepreneur Team Introduction Program of Zhejiang (2020R01002), and the Nanyang Environment and Water Research Institute (Core Fund), Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

## **Keywords**

bifunctional electrocatalysts, metal–organic frameworks, oxygen evolution, oxygen reduction, oxygen-rich metal nitrogen carbon

> Received: January 19, 2022 Revised: February 9, 2022 Published online: March 4, 2022

16163028, 2022, 23, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202200763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

- [1] J. Fu, R. Liang, G. Liu, A. Yu, Z. Bai, L. Yang, Z. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 180523.
- [2] H.-F. Wang, Q. Xu, *Matter* **2019**, *1*, 565.
- [3] W. Sun, F. Wang, B. Zhang, M. Zhang, V. Küpers, X. Ji, C. Theile, P. Bieker, K. Xu, C. Wang, M. Winter, *Science* **2021**, *371*, 46.
- [4] H. B. Yang, J. Miao, S.-F. Hung, J. Chen, H. B. Tao, X. Wang, L. Zhang, R. Chen, J. Gao, H. M. Chen, L. Dai, B. Liu, *Sci. Adv.* **2016**, *2*, e1501122.
- [5] H. Yang, X. Han, A. I. Douka, L. Huang, L. Gong, C. Xia, H. S. Park, B. Y. Xia, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2007602.
- [6] Z. Li, R. Gao, M. Feng, Y.-P. Deng, D. Xiao, Y. Zheng, Z. Zhao, D. Luo, Y. Liu, Z. Zhang, D. Wang, Q. Li, H. Li, X. Wang, Z. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2003291.
- [7] Z. Liang, H.-Y. Wang, H. Zheng, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 2540.
- [8] Z.-P. Wu, X. F. Lu, S.-Q. Zang, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910274.
- [9] Y. Wang, X. Cui, L. Peng, L. Li, J. Qiao, H. Huang, J. Shi, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2100997.
- [10] Z. Liang, X. Fan, H. Lei, J. Qi, Y. Li, J. Gao, M. Huo, H. Yuan, W. Zhang, H. Lin, H. Zheng, R. Gao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 13187.
- [11] H. Zhou, T. Yang, Z. Kou, L. Shen, Y. Zhao, Z. Wang, X. Wang, Z. Yang, J. Du, J. Xu, M. Chen, L. Tian, W. Guo, Q. Wang, H. Lv, W. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, D. He, Y. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20465.
- [12] M.-X. Chen, M. Zhu, M. Zuo, S.-Q. Chu, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, H.-W. Liang, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 1627.
- [13] L. Xie, X. Li, B. Wang, J. Meng, H. Lei, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 18883.
- [14] H. Jin, J. Wang, D. Su, Z. Wei, Z. Pang, Y. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 2688.
- [15] P. Chen, K. Xu, Z. Fang, Y. Tong, J. Wu, X. Lu, X. Peng, H. Ding, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 14710.
- [16] J. Zhu, M. Xiao, Y. Zhang, Z. Jin, Z. Peng, C. Liu, S. Chen, J. Ge, W. Xing, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 6335.
- [17] J. Sun, S. E. Lowe, L. Zhang, Y. Wang, K. Pang, Y. Wang, Y. Zhong, P. Liu, K. Zhao, Z. Tang, H. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 16511.
- [18] X. Liu, L. Wang, P. Yu, C. Tian, F. Sun, J. Ma, W. Li, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 16166.
- [19] X.-R. Wang, J.-Y. Liu, Z.-W. Liu, W.-C. Wang, J. Luo, X.-P. Han, X.-W. Du, S.-Z. Qiao, J. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800005.
- [20] Z. Zhang, X. Zhao, S. Xi, L. Zhang, Z. Chen, Z. Zeng, M. Huang, H. Yang, B. Liu, S. J. Pennycook, P. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2002896.
- [21] T. Liu, J. Mou, Z. Wu, C. Lv, J. Huang, M. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2003407.
- [22] H. Zhang, M. Zhao, H. Liu, S. Shi, Z. Wang, B. Zhang, L. Song, J. Shang, Y. Yang, C. Ma, L. Zheng, Y. Han, W. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 2255.
- [23] F. Li, T. Qin, Y. Sun, R. Jiang, J. Yuan, X. Liu, A. P. O'Mullane, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 22533.
- [24] X. F. Lu, Y. Chen, S. Wang, S. Gao, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1902339.
- [25] X. F. Lu, S. L. Zhang, E. Shangguang, P. Zhang, S. Gao, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 2001178.
- [26] J.-C. Li, Y. Meng, L. Zhang, G. Li, Z. Shi, P.-X. Hou, C. Liu, H.-M. Cheng, M. Shao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103360.
- [27] X. F. Lu, B. Y. Xia, S.-Q. Zang, X. W. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 4634.

- [28] Z. Li, M. Shao, L. Zhou, R. Zhang, C. Zhang, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 2337.
- [29] J. Meng, C. Niu, L. Xu, J. Li, X. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Xu, W. Chen, Q. Li, Z. Zhu, D. Zhao, L. Mai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8212.
- [30] C.-C. Hou, L. Zou, Y. Wang, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 21360.
- [31] W. Zhang, R. Li, H. Zheng, J. Bao, Y. Tang, K. Zhou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2009057.
- [32] L. Jiao, W. Yang, G. Wan, R. Zhang, X. Zheng, H. Zhou, S.-H. Yu, H.-L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20589.
- [33] Y. Zhang, L. Jiao, W. Yang, C. Xie, H.-L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7607.
- [34] Y.-J. Tang, H. Zheng, Y. Wang, W. Zhang, K. Zhou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102648.
- [35] F. Meng, H. Zhong, D. Bao, J. Yan, X. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 10226.
- [36] B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, N. Li, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2016**, *1*, 15006.
- [37] S. Liu, Z. Wang, S. Zhou, F. Yu, M. Yu, C.-Y. Chiang, W. Zhou, J. Zhou, J. Qiu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1700874.
- [38] Y. Li, B. Jia, Y. Fan, K. Zhu, G. Li, C.-Y. Su, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1702048.
- [39] Y. Xu, P. Deng, G. Chen, J. Chen, Y. Yan, K. Qi, H. Liu, B. Y. Xia, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1906081.
- [40] Q. Zhou, Z. Zhang, J. Cai, B. Liu, Y. Zhang, X. Gong, X. Sui, A. Yu, L. Zhao, Z. Wang, Z. Chen, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *71*, 2211.
- [41] A. I. Douka, Y. Xu, H. Yang, S. Zaman, Y. Yan, H. Liu, M. A. Salam, B. Y. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002170.
- [42] Z. Liang, H. Guo, G. Zhou, K. Guo, B. Wang, H. Lei, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 8472.
- [43] Z. Liang, N. Kong, C. Yang, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, H. Lin, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 12759.
- [44] L. Xie, X.-P. Zhang, B. Zhao, P. Li, J. Qi, X. Guo, B. Wang, H. Lei, W. Zhang, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7576.
- [45] H.-X. Zhong, J. Wang, Y.-W. Zhang, W.-L. Xu, W. Xing, D. Xu, Y.-F. Zhang, X.-B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 14235.
- [46] G. Cai, Y. Yin, D. Xia, A. A. Chen, J. Holoubek, J. Scharf, Y. Yang, K. H. Koh, M. Li, D. M. Davies, M. Mayer, T. H. Han, Y. S. Meng, T. A. Pascal, Z. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3395.
- [47] Y. Sun, S. Gao, F. Lei, J. Liu, L. Liang, Y. Xie, *Chem. Sci.* **2014**, *5*, 3976.
- [48] W. S. Seo, J. H. Shim, S. J. Oh, E. K. Lee, N. H. Hur, J. T. Park, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2005**, *127*, 6188.
- [49] D. Zhao, K. Sun, W.-C. Cheong, L. Zheng, C. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu, Y. Pan, Z. Zhuang, B. Hu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8982.
- [50] Z. Wang, Y. Dong, H. Li, Z. Zhao, H. B. Wu, C. Hao, S. Liu, J. Qiu, X. W. Lou, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 5002.
- [51] Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780.
- [52] M. Yu, Z. Wang, C. Hou, Z. Wang, C. Liang, C. Zhao, Y. Tong, X. Lu, S. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1602868.
- [53] X. Feng, Y. Bai, M. Liu, Y. Li, H. Yang, X. Wang, C. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 2036.
- [54] F. Song, X. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4477.
- [55] W. Zhang, Y. Wang, H. Zheng, R. Li, Y. Tang, B. Li, C. Zhu, L. You, M.-R. Gao, Z. Liu, S.-H. Yu, K. Zhou, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 1971.
- [56] Y.-J. Wu, J. Yang, T.-X. Tu, W.-Q. Li, P.-F. Zhang, Y. Zhou, J.-F. Li, J.-T. Li, S.-G. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26829.