---
source: Zhang 等 - 2024 - A Janus PlatinumTin Oxide Heterostructure for Durable Oxygen Reduction Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 84.898s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:09:07.357280Z
---

# **A Janus Platinum/Tin Oxide Heterostructure for Durable Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Boyan Zhang, Peiyu Ma,\* Ruyang Wang, Heng Cao, and Jun Bao\**

**Designing efficient and durable electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is essential for proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). Platinum-based catalysts are considered efficient ORR catalysts due to their high activity. However, the degradation of Pt species leads to poor durability of catalysts, limiting their applications in PEMFCs. Herein, a Janus heterostructure is designed for high durability ORR in acidic media. The Janus heterostructure composes of crystalline platinum and cassiterite tin oxide nanoparticles with carbon support (J-Pt@SnO2/C). Based on the synchrotron fine structure analysis and electrochemical investigation, the crystalline reconstruction and charge redistribution at the interface of Janus structure are revealed. The tightly coupled interface could optimize the valance states of Pt and the adsorption/desorption of oxygenated intermediates. As a result, the J-Pt@SnO2/C catalyst possesses distinguishing long-term stability during the accelerated durability test without obvious degradation after 40 000 cycles and keeps the majority of activity after 70 000 cycles. Meanwhile, the catalyst exhibits outstanding activity with half-wave potential at 0.905 V and a mass activity of 0.355 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (2.7 times higher than Pt/C). The approach of the Janus catalyst paves an avenue for designing highly efficient and stable Pt-based ORR catalyst in the future implementation.**

# **1. Introduction**

Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) have attracted extensive interest as a new-generation energy conversion device in the past few decades.[\[1–3\]](#page-7-0) Currently, nanoengineering platinum-group-based metal (PGM) nanoparticles supported on conductive carbon substrate are generally considered to be the most efficient ORR electrocatalyst for PEMFCs. However, the serious scarcity of platinum makes it difficult for PEMFCs to achieve sustainable goals.[\[4–6\]](#page-7-0) In addition, during the harsh startup/shutdown cycles under operation conditions, the degradation of the ORR catalysts resulting from

B. Zhang, P. Ma, R. Wang, H. Cao, J. Bao National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory Key Laboratory of Precision and Intelligent Chemistry *i*Chem (Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials) University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230026, P. R. China E-mail: [pyuma@ustc.edu.cn;](mailto:pyuma@ustc.edu.cn) [baoj@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:baoj@ustc.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202405234>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202405234**

platinum dissolution,[\[7–9\]](#page-7-0) Ostwald ripening,[\[10,11\]](#page-7-0) agglomeration,[\[3,12\]](#page-7-0) corrosion of carbon,[\[13–15\]](#page-7-0) and detachment[\[16\]](#page-8-0) leads to the decrease of electrochemical surface area (ECSA), which significantly reduces the performance of catalysts. Therefore, it is highly desired to develop efficient and durable catalysts with stable Pt species for ORR.

Generally, catalyst deactivation is primarily attributed to the diminished interaction between the Pt species and the supporting substrate. Recently, some pioneering works have reported that modifying carbon support with acid-resistant metal oxides (such as Ta2O5, Nb2O5, MoOx, and WO3) could increase the catalysts stability under ORR conditions.[\[17–21\]](#page-8-0) In view of the suitable ionic potential of Sn and the strong Sn─O bonding effect, SnO2 could be a stable and efficient support for ORR catalyst.[\[22,23\]](#page-8-0) However, the metal-support catalyst designing is mainly limited to the classical structure of these heterocatalysts, in which the supports are larger in size and the loading active sites vary from

single atoms to nanoparticles. Considering the synergistic effect in the heterogeneous catalyst, it would be more efficient for the catalysts if the size of both metal and support are of comparable magnitudes.[\[24–27](#page-8-0)] Meanwhile, the strongly coupled interface between the nanoparticles could serve as a channel for intermediates spillover and electrons transfer. Therefore, modulating the support size may be an effective strategy to optimize the interaction in the heterogeneous catalyst, further enhancing the activity and durability of Pt-based ORR catalysts.

Based on the previous discussion, we suggested to design a particle-particle heterogeneous Pt-based nanocatalyst to facilitate the kinetics and enhance the catalyst durability for ORR in acidic media. In this work, a Janus platinum/tin oxide heterogeneous electrocatalyst was synthesized for durable ORR as a proof of concept. The Janus heterocatalyst was composed of crystalline Pt and SnO2 particles loading on conductive carbon black, which denoted as J-Pt@SnO2/C. Interestingly, the unique structure in the Janus catalyst would significantly reconstruct the electron and coordination environment of Pt and SnO2 particles, which was proved by synchrotron fine structure analysis. In the meantime, the tightly coupled interface of Pt and SnO2 could act as a channel for intermediates transport. With the help of SnO2 introduction, the Janus structure could promote the desorption of oxygenated species on Pt active sites thus prevent the

16136829, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthesis method and structure characterization of J-Pt@SnO2/C. a) Catalyst synthesis method. Gray, blue, black and red spheres represent Sn, Pt, C, and O atoms, respectively. b) XRD patterns of J-Pt@SnO2/C and SnO2/C. c) TEM images and d) AC HAADF-STEM images of J-Pt@SnO2/C. e) Corresponding EDS element mappings of J-Pt@ SnO2/C.

excessive oxidation of Pt, enhancing the stability and durability of the catalyst. Electrochemical measurements demonstrated that the J-Pt@SnO2/C catalyst showed excellent durability during the 40 000 cycles stability test and maintained high activity after 70 000 cycles (≈69%). In addition, the J-Pt@SnO2/C also exhibited outstanding activity with half-wave potential at 0.905 V and a mass activity of 0.355 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (2.7 times higher than that of Pt/C). Our work offered an essential guidance for the precise design of highly stable Pt-based ORR catalysts in the future applications.

# **2. Results**

#### **2.1. Catalyst Design and Structural Characterizations**

SnO2 was chosen as the supporting matrix to anchor the Pt nanoparticles due to its affinity to oxygenated intermediates, pronounced metal-support interaction, and superior corrosion resistance in acidic media.[\[28–30\]](#page-8-0) The J-Pt@SnO2/C was prepared using a wet-chemical approach (**Figure 1**a). Initially, the Sn precursor (stannous chloride, SnCl2) was dispersed in a carbon support aqueous solution (Ketjenblack EC-600JD, KB), nucleated, and grew up in the micropore of the carbon support. Then the precipitation was calcinated in the air to crystalize SnO2 on the carbon support (SnO2/C). Subsequently, Pt nanoparticles were loaded onto the SnO2 via a glycerol reduction method to synthesize J-Pt@SnO2/C. Pt-SnO2/C and Pt/C were also synthesized via a similar method as references (details in the methods). Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES) measurements indicated that the mass loading of Pt in these samples was ≈20%, while Sn was ≈10% in J-Pt@SnO2/C and Pt-SnO2/C.

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns revealed that all the samples exhibited a cassiterite and face-centered cubic structure (Figure 1b; Figure S1, Supporting Information), corresponding to SnO2 (PDF#41-1445) and Pt (PDF#04-0802). Subsequently, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was carried to clarify the nanostructure of the catalysts. Following the wet-chemical glycerol reduction of Pt precursor, TEM images of J-Pt@SnO2/C demonstrated that the nanoparticles uniformly grew on the porous substrate (Figure 1c). Based on the similar synthesis method, the average size of Pt nanoparticles within the catalysts was similar for ≈3 nm (Figure S2, Supporting Information). Then the aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM) was used to illustrate the Janus nanostructure of Pt and SnO2

16136829, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

in the catalyst. The AC HAADF-STEM images of J-Pt@SnO2/C presented a tightly bonding particle-particle heterostructure, in which the image displayed the lattice fringes of 0.226 and 0.240 nm, marked Pt (111) and SnO2 (200) facets in the Janus nanoparticles, respectively (Figure [1d;](#page-1-0) Figure S3, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the HAADF-STEM of J-Pt@SnO2/C and Pt-SnO2/C suggested that the Pt nanoparticles loading on different substrates could construct various structures. As shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), in the J-Pt@SnO2/C a significant proportion of Pt was situated on SnO2, thereby forming Janus nanoparticles within the catalyst. However, SnO2 particles in Pt-SnO2/C was larger in size and the Pt nanoparticles were randomly loaded onto the substrate, while most Pt particles being separated from SnO2 but directly anchored onto the carbon support. To demonstrate the universial existence of Janus structure, HAADF-STEM images in different area and various fields were collected. The Janus structure were delineated from single Janus particle to several Janus particles on the carbon support (Figure S5, Supporting Information). H2-TPR of different support were carried out to investigate the formation mechanism of the Janus structure during the synthesis. The H2-TPR profiles of the samples revealed the multiple reduction region through the temperature windows, reflecting the intrinsic properties of the substrate. According to the TPR profiles, the 200-SnO2/C could be reduced at lower temperature compared to 400-SnO2/C (Figure S6, Supporting Information), which explained the specific loading effect in Janus structure. Due to the easily reduced substrate, the SnO2 nanoparticels could act as the anchoring sites of the Pt species thus formed the Janus structure in the catalyst. The structure analysis clarified the optimized support size could efficiently anchor Pt nanoparticles in the catalyst. In addition, as shown in energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping images, the Pt, Sn, C, and O elements were uniformly distributed in the J-Pt@SnO2/C (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0).

The electronic structure and coordination environment of Pt and SnO2 in the catalysts were characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS). The Pt 4*f* XPS spectra displayed two peaks at 71.5 and 74.8 eV, which were attributed to Pt 4*f*7/2 and 4*f*5/2[\[31,32\]](#page-8-0) (**Figure 2**[a;](#page-3-0) Figure S7, Supporting Information). Due to the tightly coupled interface between Pt and SnO2 nanoparticles in the Janus structure, both characteristic peaks of Pt 4*f* in J-Pt@SnO2/C shifted to higher binding energy which demonstrating a higher Pt valence state than that of Pt-SnO2/C while lower than Pt/C. With the assistance of SnO2 in the support, the Pt valance states in J-Pt@SnO2 was modified and optimized in the catalyst for ORR. Meanwhile, the Sn 3*d*5/2 and 3*d*3/2 peaks[\[33\]](#page-8-0) at 487.0 and 495.5 eV for J-Pt@SnO2/C were both shifted to lower binding energy, indicating the enhanced electron transfer from Pt nanoparticles to the SnO2 support in the Janus structure (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). The Sn 3*d* XPS spectra of SnO2/C substrate were also collected to illustrate the enhanced interaction in Janus structure (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The XPS spectra of Sn 3*d* for 200-SnO2/C and 400-SnO2/C confirmed the chemical states of Sn in different substrates remained consistent, suggesting the charge redistribution and the enhanced interaction were caused by the formation of the Janus strucutre. The enhanced interaction may be caused by the reconstruction at the interface of Janus structure and involving the reform of coordination environment. To unravel the coordination and electronic structure in the catalysts, XAFS of catalysts were also collected. The Pt *L*3-edge XANES spectra of J-Pt@SnO2/C and Pt-SnO2/C were collected with PtO2 and Pt foil as references (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). The higher Pt *L*3-edge white line intensity of J-Pt@SnO2/C compared to Pt-SnO2/C and Pt foil indicated an increasing 5*d*-electron obtial vacancy in Pt nanoparticles[\[34–36\]](#page-8-0) further corroborating the electron transfer from Pt to SnO2 as observed by XPS results. The corresponding Fourier transforms of *k*2-weighted extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) oscillations at the Pt *L*3-edge displayed two peaks at ≈1.8 and 2.5 Å in R space (without phase correction), which were ascribed to the first-shell Pt-O coordination and second-shell Pt-Pt coordination, respectively (Figure [2d\)](#page-3-0). The Pt─O peak displayed in FT-EXAFS for J-Pt@SnO2/C unraveled the reconstruction of Pt nanoparticles in the Janus structure which probably caused by the presence of Pt-O-Sn at the interface of J-Pt@SnO2/C. Through the application of least-squares FT-EXAFS curve-fitting of Pt *L3*-edge, the coordination number of Pt-Pt for J-Pt@SnO2/C decreased to 5.68 (Figure S9 and Table S1, Supporting Information), compared with Pt-SnO2/C (6.72). The decreasing corrdination number of Pt─Pt demonstrated the relaxation and reconstruction of Pt nanoparticles in J-Pt@SnO2/C, mainly caused by the enhanced interaction between Pt and SnO2 parts in the Janus structure. Due to the strongly interaction in J-Pt@SnO2/C, Pt nanoparticles coupled with SnO2 and the specific structure in the catalyst modified the electron and coordination environment of Pt. Wavelet transforms for *k*2-weighted Pt *L*3 edge EXAFS spectra (Figure [2g\)](#page-3-0) further demonstrated the upper perception, J-Pt@SnO2/C displayed two intensity maximums at 4 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Pt─O) and 6 Å<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Pt─Pt), while no obvious intensity peak assigned to Pt─O contribution was detected in Pt-SnO2/C and Pt foil. These peaks displayed the surrounding environment of Pt in the catalysts and proved that the increasement of Pt valence state in J-Pt@SnO2/C due to the Pt─O bond between Pt and SnO2, suggesting the formation of Pt─O─Sn in the conjunction of Janus structure. XAFS of Sn *K*-edge for the catalysts and references (SnO2 and Sn foil) were also investigated as a proof of concept demonstration. The electron transfer in the Janus structure was confirmed by the first derivative of normalized XANES Sn *K*-edge spectra.[\[37](#page-8-0)] The absorption edge of J-Pt@SnO2/C at the Sn *K*-edge was shifted to lower energy than that of Pt-SnO2/C and SnO2, demonstrating a decreased Sn valence state in SnO2 nanoparticles (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0) which matched up with XPS and Pt XAFS results. The Sn *K*-edge EXAFS spectra exhibited single characteristic peak at ≈1.6 Å in R space (without phase correction), assigned to Sn─O bond in the catalysts (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). With the application of the FT-EXAFS curve-fitting, the decreasement of Sn─O coordination numbers in J-Pt@SnO2/C was excavated. The coordination number of Sn─O for J-Pt@SnO2/C decreased to 5.56, compared with Pt-SnO2/C and SnO2 (5.66 and 5.97, respectively). The observing decreasment in Sn-O within the Sn *K*-edge EXAFS spectra was consistent with the findings from XPS and Pt *L3*-edge XAFS, suggesting that the Pt nanoparticles also modified the coordination environment of SnO2 (Figure S10 and Table S2, Supporting Information). According to the synchrotron fine structure analysis, the strongly combination of SnO2 and Pt was determined in the catalysts. The tightly coupled particle-particle Janus structure not only altered the charge distribution of Pt and SnO2 components, but also established a new

www.small-journal.com

16138289,2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlineithrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlineibrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License and Conditions (https://onlineibrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License and Conditions (https://onlineibrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License and Conditions (https://onlineibrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Electronic and coordination characterizations of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and references. a) XPS spectra Pt 4f and b) XPS spectra Sn 3d for J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C. c) Pt  $L_3$ -edge XANES and d)  $k^2$ -weight function of the EXAFS spectra for J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C, Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C, PtO<sub>2</sub>, and Pt foil. e) Sn k-edge XANES and f)  $k^3$ -weight function of the EXAFS spectra for J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C, Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C, SnO<sub>2</sub>, and Sn foil. g) Wavelet transform of Pt  $L_3$ -edge EXAFS data for Pt foil, J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C, Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C, and PtO<sub>2</sub>, Pt-O and Pt-Pt peaks were marked in the spectra.

contribution of Pt-O-Sn at the interface of the Janus structure in J-Pt@SnO2/C.

## 2.2. Electrochemical Performance Evaluation and Discussion

The electrochemical catalytic activity of the catalyst and references for ORR were evaluated in N2- and O2-saturated 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub> using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) and CHI electrochemical workstation (details in the methods). All the potentials discussed in this work referred to standard reversible hydrogen electrodes (RHE). First, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves were collected (Figure 3a) to evaluate the ORR activity with half-wave potential, current density and on-set potential. The LSV curves indicated that SnO<sub>2</sub>/C substrate remained inert under the ORR condition, exhibiting no remarkable diffusion limiting current within the ORR potential range.

However, with the optimized interactions between Pt nanoparticles and substrate, the J-Pt@SnO2/C displayed outstanding ORR activity with an outstanding half-wave potential of 0.905 V compared with Pt/C (0.875 V) and Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C (0.86 V). Meanwhile, the Tafel slope (Figure 3b) of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C (71.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) calculated according to the Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equation, was also lower than that of other samples, indicating the outstanding kinetic efficiency of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C. To further investigate the kinetic process of this reaction, the electron transfer number was collected using a rotating ring-disk electrode<sup>[38]</sup> (RRDE) as shown in Figure S11 (Supporting Information). The n value for J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C was 3.99, which was comparable to Pt/C (≈3.97). The transfer number indicated the Janus catalyst facilitated a conversion from O2 to H2O with a complete 4-electron transfer mechanism in wild potential range for ORR, especially at high current density. Meanwhile, the relationship between ECSA and chemical environment was investigated by cyclic

16138289, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for less of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. ORR activity and durability evaluation of catalysts. a) ORR polarization curves for Pt/C,  $SnO_2/C$ ,  $J-Pt@SnO_2/C$ , and  $Pt-SnO_2/C$ . b) Tafel plot of Pt/C,  $J-Pt@SnO_2/C$ , and  $Pt-SnO_2/C$ . c) Comparison of mass activity and specific activity at 0.9 V versus RHE of  $J-Pt@SnO_2/C$  (red) and Pt/C (blue). ORR polarization curves of accelerated durability test for d)  $J-Pt@SnO_2/C$  and e) Pt/C. f) Activity retention of  $J-Pt@SnO_2/C$  (red) and Pt/C (blue) in various potential after 40 000 ADT cycles.

voltammetry method. The N2 CV curves of these catalysts in Figure S12 (Supporting Information) displayed two separate peaks in the potential ranges 0-0.4 V and over 0.6 V, which assigned to hydrogen and hydroxyl adsorption/desorption on the surface of Pt nanoparticles, thereby confirming the existence of Pt active sites. The ECSAs for J-Pt@SnO2/C and reference catalysts were calculated with H-UPD theory.[39] Notably, J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C exhibited the highest ECSA at 113 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, outperforming other reference samples (Table \$3, Supporting Information). The ECSAs distribution of the catalysts demonstrated the introducing of SnO2 could modify the carbon support, adjusting the activity of Pt species in electrochemical reactions. The increasing active area played an irreplaceable role in ORR kinetics and enhanced the intrinsic activity. Mass activity (MA) and specific activity (SA) of catalysts were also collected to evaluate the intrinsic activity (Figure 3c). The MA of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C at 0.9 V was found to be 0.355 A m  $g_{Pt}^{-1}$ , which was 2.7 times higher than that of Pt/C (0.131 A mg $_{\rm Pt}^{-1}$ ). Similarly, the SA of J-Pt@SnO $_2$ /C at 0.9 V was 0.458 mA cm $^{-2}$ , 1.5 times higher than that of Pt/C (0.308 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). This enhanced activity was likely attributed to the ECSA increasement and the modulated valence states. Due to the charge redistribution in the Janus structure, the electronic structure of Pt could be optimized, thereby enhancing the ORR activity performance.

Accelerated durability test (ADT) were then carried out to evaluate the stability of the electrocatalysts under ORR operation conditions. To mimic the operating environment during the ORR process, J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and Pt/C were first subjected to startup/shutdown multipotential tests in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solution, followed by potential cycling between 0.6 and

0.9 V in each cycle (details in the methods). The J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst exhibited high long-term durability with slightly degradation of half potential (23 mV) after 40 000 cycles (Figure 3d), compared to Pt/C (75 mV, Figure 3e) and Pt-SnO2/C (51 mV, Figure S13, Supporting Information). Due to the presence of SnO<sub>2</sub> and the enhanced interaction between Pt nanoparticles and substrate, J-Pt@SnO2/C showed excellent activity retention for ORR in long-time durability test especially at high potential range. Impressively, due to the specific Janus structure, the J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C maintained high activity (69.3%) at 0.9 V after 40 000 cycles, 1.6 times higher than that of Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C (44.2%, Figure \$14, Supporting Information) and 2.8 times higher than that of Pt/C (25.1%, Figure 3f). To clarify the relationship between outstanding activity retention and the structure, ECSAs during the ADT experiments were collected (Figure S15, Supporting Information). As the N<sub>2</sub> CV curves displayed, J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C with negligible degradation kept high ECSA compared with Pt/C and Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C. The outstanding durability of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C could be further sustained after 70 000 cycles with ECSA retention as high as 69% at 0.8 V versus RHE (Figure S16, Supporting Information). HAADF-STEM and TEM images of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C after strict ADT testing unraveled the integrity of the morphology, as well as the insignificant change of nanoparticles size (Figures S17 and S18, Supporting Information). XPS spectra of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C was also collected to verified the chemical state of Pt and Sn in the Janus catalyst (Figure \$19, Supporting Information). The chemical state of Pt and Sn changed after the ADT experiments, which due to the oxidation effect of oxygenated intermediates generated on the catalyst during ORR process. However, the strongly bonding interface in the catalyst could effectively inhibit the Pt

16138289, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for less of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. Optimized Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub> structure for ORR and catalytic durability illustration. a) Comparison of half-wave potential (left) and ECSA (right) of different weight ratio of SnO<sub>2</sub>/Pt of J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C. CO-stripping curves of b) Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C containing two CO electrooxidation peaks (marked as  $\alpha$  and  $\beta$ ) while c) J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and Pt/C consisting only single peak. Schematic diagrams of ORR catalysis in d) J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and (e) Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C including \*OH spillover and excessive oxidation on Pt nanoparticles.

dissolution and agglomeration to prevent nanostructure degradation. As a result, the Janus structure in the J-Pt@SnO $_2$ /C could remarkably increase the stability and durability under the ORR conditions.

Following the proposed catalyst design, Pt nanoparticles serve as the active sites and SnO<sub>2</sub> serves as an electron and intermediate reservoir in the specific Janus-structure catalyst. In a proof of concept research, the concentration of SnO<sub>2</sub> in J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C was modulated to unravel the relationship between the Sn/Pt weight ratio and the activity for ORR within the catalyst. By maintaining a Pt loading of 20% weight, the volcano-like relationship between the weight ratio of Sn/Pt and ORR activity was clarified (**Figure 4a**; Figure S20 and Table S4, Supporting Information). These results demonstrated that the quantity of the SnO<sub>2</sub> loading was important for catalysis activity because of the unique Janus structure in the catalyst. The suitable regulation of SnO<sub>2</sub> could optimize the ECSA while overloading SnO<sub>2</sub> would break the Janus structure thus decrease the ORR activity.

Beyond the impact on activity, it was imperative to investigate the influence of SnO<sub>2</sub> in the Janus structure for stability and durability during the ORR process. Mostly, the degradation of the catalyst structure was attributed to the dissolution of Pt, due to the oxygenated species formation on Pt nanoparticles during the reaction. <sup>[40]</sup> The oxygenated intermediates could strongly elevate the valance state of Pt nanoparticles during the ORR process, leading to Pt leaching in the acidic environment. However, the incorporation of SnO<sub>2</sub> around Pt could potentially weaken the bond between Pt and oxygenated intermediates, protecting the overoxidation of Pt. To illustrate the mechanism of the enhanced durability, a CO-stripping experiment was further carried to de-

termine the  $SnO_2$  introduction impact on the ORR performance in J-Pt@ $SnO_2/C$  and Pt- $SnO_2/C$ . In this study, CO electrooxidation was employed to examine hydroxyl species (OH) adsorption and desorption behavior on the catalyst. The generation of reaction intermediates was found to correlate with the peak of CO oxidation, thereby providing insights into the coverage of OH. The peaks observed during the CO oxidation could be assigned to various active sites on Pt nanoparticles, which could be described by the following equation:

$$Pt - OH_{ad} + Pt - CO_{ad} \rightarrow 2Pt + CO_2 + H^+ + e^-$$
 (1)

The CO oxidation peak positions of Pt also suggested the interaction between Pt and OH intermediates in the catalysts. Impressively, Pt-SnO $_2$ /C represented two peaks (marked as  $\alpha$  and  $\beta$ , Figure 4b) within the stripping potential range, compared with the single peak for J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C (marked as  $\alpha$ ) and Pt/C (marked as  $\beta$ ), respectively (Figure 4b,c). The two separate peaks in CO stripping figures unraveled multiple Pt species in the catalysts, which could be assigned to the decorated Pt active sites weakly  $(\beta)$  and strongly  $(\alpha)$  interacting with substrates. Additionally, we carried out CO-stripping experiments using various SnO<sub>2</sub> substrates, (Figure S21, Supporting Information) confirming that the CO oxidation only occurred on Pt sites. SnO2 could act as an oxygen species reservoir during electrocatalysis, thereby weakening the bonding strength of oxygenated intermediates on the Pt active site. The lower position of CO electrooxidation peaks unraveled the weaken bonding of Pt-OH<sub>ad</sub> thus proving the over-oxide resistance of Pt active sites in the Janus catalyst. This behavior resulted in a negative shift of the CO oxidation peak

16138289, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6601/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2024 (See Terms

observed in the Janus catalyst compared with Pt/C. Therefore, the presence of SnO<sub>2</sub> in the J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C catalyst promoted the desorption of oxygenated intermediates, preventing the excessive oxidation of Pt and suppressing the dissolution and degradation of catalyst from Pt active sites. The introduction of SnO2 could accelerate the spillover of intermediates from the Pt surface to SnO<sub>2</sub> thus decreasing the coverage of OH on the surface of Pt nanoparticles, preventing the formation of the Pt-oxide phase in the catalyst (Figure 4d). On the contrary, the Pt nanoparticles in Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and Pt/C would easily be excessively oxidized by the oxygenated species, dissolving as Pt cations in the acidic electrolyte (Figure 4e). To clarify the active sites and the intermediates behavior, ATR-SEIRAS were carrid out to monitor the change of oxygen intermediates content and chemical bonding between the active sites of the catalysts and oxygen species at different operating potentials under ORR test conditions (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The ATR-SEIRAS spectra of Pt/C showed two peaks at 3460 and 2160 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which attributed to adsorbed hydroxyl (\*OH) and carbon monoxide (CO). The peak at 2160 cm<sup>-1</sup> of CO adsorbing on Pt species demonstrated the oxygenated effect of the carbon support. The formation of oxygenated intermediates could erosion the carbon support, which could generate CO at ≈0.60 V under the ORR condition thus decreased the stability of Pt/C. However, different hydroxyl adsorbing behavior was detected without CO adsorbing peaks in the Janus catalyst. The ATR-SEIRAS spectra of the Janus catalyst unraveled the adsorbing free oxygen (O2, 1640 cm<sup>-1</sup>),<sup>[43]</sup> which proved the increasement of oxygen affinity after the introduction of SnO2 in the Janus structure while SnO<sub>2</sub>/C displayed no significant peaks at the potential range of ORR. As a proof of concept, the variation of ATR-SEIRAS spectra in different catalysts unraveled the synergistic effect of Janus catalyst, in which the Pt species acted as active sites and SnO<sub>2</sub> served as oxygenated intermediate reservoir. Above all, it was demonstrated that the introduction of SnO2 at a specific Janus structure onto the carbon support was an effective and universal strategy for stabilizing Pt-based catalyst structure under ORR conditions.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, we investigated a highly dispersed and crystalized particle-particle Janus Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C nanocatalyst for durable ORR in acidic media. By manipulating the size distribution and the loading concentration of SnO2, we were able to optimize the interaction between Pt and SnO<sub>2</sub>, thereby controlling the electronic properties of Pt and enhancing the ORR activity in Pt-based catalysts. Meanwhile, the existence of SnO<sub>2</sub> in the unique structure could also enhance the spillover of oxygenate intermediates from Pt to SnO<sub>2</sub>, preventing the excessive oxidation and dissolution of Pt during the harsh ORR operation conditions. This approach offers a novel strategy for the development of next-generation efficient and durable Pt-based ORR catalysts in future applications.

# 4. Experimental Section

Chemicals: All chemicals were directly used as received without purification. Tin chloride (SnCl2, 99%), ethylene glycol (EG, 98%), Chloroplatinic acid hydrate (H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.95%), and Perchloric acid (HClO<sub>4</sub>, 70%) were purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Hydrochloric acid (HCl, 37%) and ethanol (C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>5</sub>OH, 98%) were purchased by Shanghai Chemical Reagents. Deionized water was used throughout this work with a resistivity of 18.2  $M\Omega$  cm<sup>-1</sup>.

Synthesis of SnO<sub>2</sub>/C: Ketjenblack EC-600[D (500 mg) was dispersed in 2 м HCl (200 mL) by sonication for 30 min to form a uniform dispersion, then tin chloride (6 g) was added to the above solution while stirring. The obtained black solution was then transferred to Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and kept in 80 °C for 4 h and naturally cooled to room temperature. The Sn@C was obtained by centrifugation at 11 500 rpm for 3 min and then washed with ethanol and deionized water for three times. The precipitate was then dried with freeze dryer overnight and heat treated in air with Muffle at certain temperature (200 and 400 °C, marked as 200- $SnO_2/C$  and  $400-SnO_2/C$ ).

Synthesis of J-Pt@SnO2/C, Pt-SnO2/C, and Pt/C: J-Pt@SnO2/C was synthesized with 200-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C while Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C was synthesized with 400-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C. As-prepared SnO<sub>2</sub>/C (50 mg) was dispersed in a mixture (45 mL) of deionized water, ethylene glycol, and chloroplatinic acid solution (5 mL, 10 mg mL<sup>-1</sup>), the ratio of EG to water was controlled to 2:1, totally. The mixture was then stirred and reflow at 130 °C for 70 min after 1 h sonication. J-Pt@SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and Pt-SnO<sub>2</sub>/C were finally obtained by freeze drying after centrifugation at 10 000 rpm for 3 min and washed with deionized water only. Pt/C was synthesized by similar method while directly adding Pt precursors to Ketjenblack EC-600JD and solution without support matrix.

XAFS Measurements: XAFS spectra of Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge were obtained at the 1W1B beamline station of Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF, Beijing) operated at 2.5 GeV with a constant current of 200 mA. XAFS spectra of Sn K-edge were collected at the BL14W1 beamline station in Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF, Shanghai). The data were collected at room temperature in transmission mode using N2-Ar filled ionization chamber. All samples were pelletized as disks of 8 mm diameter. The XAFS and EXAFS data was processed according to the standard procedures using ATHENA and ARTEMIS module implemented in the IF-EFFIT software packages.<sup>[44]</sup> The EXAFS data and wavelet transforms data were obtained by Fourier transformed  $\chi(k)$  data in k-space into real (R) space using hanning windows to separate the contributions from different coordination environments.

Electrochemical Measurements: The electrochemical experiments were all collected on a CHI 760E electrochemical workstation (Shanghai Chenhua, China) in conventional three electrode system at room temperature. Glassy carbon electrode (GCE, 4 mm diameter) was used as working electrode, Ag/AgCl as the reference electrode, and Pt wine as counter electrode. The reference was corrected to RHE with conventional H<sub>2</sub>-saturated CV curves detected by zero-point of the current. The catalyst solution was prepared by mixing 4-6 mg of catalysts in a solution (depends on dispersion) containing 100  $\mu L$  of deionized water and 900  $\mu L$  of ethanol and sonicated in ice water for 30 min to obtain uniform mixture, then 30 µL of 5% Nafion 1100 W solution was added to catalyst ink and sonicated for another 30 min in ice water to form homogeneous ink. A certain volume of the catalyst ink was dropped on the glassy carbon electrode polished by alumina (50 nm). Cyclic voltammetry (CV) activations were performed in O<sub>2</sub>/N<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solution with potential scanning rate of 50 mV s $^{-1}$ . The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was collected by integrating hydrogen adsorption charge on CV curve by assuming a value of 210  $\mu$ C cm<sup>-2</sup> for the adsorption of hydrogen monolayer.<sup>[39]</sup> The ECSA for Pt/C and J-Pt@SnO $_2$  were calculated in the same method. Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) performance was evaluated by polarization curves in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> electrolyte with potential scanning rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The RDE test was carried out at rotating speed of 1600 rpm. For the ORR kinetic investigation, the kinetic current density  $(J_k)$  was calculated on the basis of the Koutecky-Levich equation given

$$\frac{1}{J} = \frac{1}{J_L} + \frac{1}{J_K} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{1/2}} + \frac{1}{J_K}$$
 (2)

$$B = 0.62 nFC_0 (D_0)^{2/3} v^{-1/6}$$
(3)

www.small-journal.com

<span id="page-7-0"></span>where J is the measured current density,  $J_{\rm K}$  is the kinetic current density,  $J_{\rm L}$  is the diffusion-limited current density,  $\omega$  is electrode rotation rate, F is Faraday constant (96 485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>),  $C_0$  is the bulk concentration of  $O_2$  (1.2 × 10<sup>-3</sup> mol L<sup>-1</sup>),  $D_0$  is the diffusion coefficient of  $O_2$  (1.9 × 10<sup>-5</sup> cm² s<sup>-1</sup>), and v is the kinetic viscosity of the electrolyte (0.01 cm² s<sup>-1</sup>). For RRDE tests, a program-controlled CHI 760E electrochemical workstation was employed and the disk electrode was scanning at a rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and the ring electrode potential was set to 1.10 V versus RHE. The hydrogen peroxide yield (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>%) and the electron transfer number (n) were determined by the following equations:

$$H_2O_2(\%) = 200 \times \frac{I_r/N}{I_d + I_r/N}$$
 (4)

$$n = 4*\frac{I_{\rm d}}{I_{\rm d} + I_{\rm r}/N} \tag{5}$$

where  $I_r$  and  $I_d$  were the ring and disk current, respectively. N was the ring current collection efficiency, which was determined to be 0.37. The accelerated durability tests of the catalysts were performed in the  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M HClO $_4$  electrolyte at room temperature by multi-potential steps cycling between 0.6 and 0.9 V versus RHE, each potential was maintained for 3 s and then switched to another potential for another 3 s during the whole test to simulate the startup/shutdown operation condition. The CO stripping experiments were performed in CO/N $_2$ -saturated 0.1 M HClO $_4$  solution. First, CO was bubbled into the  $N_2$ -saturated solution until the catalyst was saturated with CO, then the gas was switched to  $N_2$  to remove CO in the solution, lastly the CO-stripping curves were collected in the  $N_2$ -saturated solution with the potential scanning rate at 50 mV s $^{-1}$ .

In-Situ ATR-SEIRAS Spectroscopy: In-situ ATR-SEIRAS spectra were measured on a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (Thermo Fisher IS50) with a Si crystal as the infrared transmission window in a specialized ATR unit. The J-Pt@SnO $_2/C$  (20 mg), Pt/C (20 mg), and SnO $_2/C$  (20 mg) with 60  $\mu$ L of Nafion were dispersed in 2 mL of ethanol under ultrasonication for 1 h. Then the mixture was sprayed onto the Au-coated Si crystal to completely cover the Au film. The prepared prism was used as the working electrode after being dried naturally. A platinum wire and an Ag/AgCl electrode were used as counter and reference electrodes, respectively electrochemical tests were measured in 0.1 m  $O_2$ -saturated HClO $_4$  electrolyte and controlled by a CHI660E electrochemical workstation at room temperature. The background spectra of the working electrode were obtained at OCP before the tests with a resolution of 8 cm $^{-1}$  for 64 scans in the ATR unit at room temperature.

Instrumentations: XRD patterns were recorded using a Philips X'Pert Pro Super diffractometer with Cu-K $\alpha$  radiation ( $\lambda=1.54178$  Å). HAADF-STEM images were taken on a JEOL ARM-200F field-emission transmission electron microscope operating at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV using Mo-based TEM grids. EDX elemental mapping images were taken on a FEI Talos F200X high-resolution transmission electron microscope using Mo-based TEM grids. XPS measurements were performed on a Kratos AXIS SUPRA+ with Al K $\alpha=1486.6$  eV as the exciting source. ICP-MS (Atomscan Advantage, Thermo Jarrell Ash, USA) analyses were used to determine the mass loadings of Ir single atoms and the dissolved amount of Co species. The size distribution of SnO2 and Pt nanoparticles were measured on TEM images by Nano Measurer software.

#### Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (12241502); Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (20720220010); National Key Research and Development Program

of China (2019YFA0405602); Fellowship of China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2023M743372); Postdoctoral Fellowship Program of CPSF (GZC20232537). This work was partially carried out at the Instruments Center for Physical Science, University of Science and Technology of China.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interests.

# **Author Contributions**

B.Z. and J.B. designed the study. B.Z., R.W., and H.C. conducted the experiments. B.Z., P.M., and J.B. wrote the paper. All authors discussed the results and contributed to the manuscript.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

## Keywords

Janus catalyst, oxygen reduction reaction, durability

Received: June 26, 2024 Revised: September 3, 2024 Published online: October 2, 2024 16138289, 2024, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202405234 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [6001/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- J. Fan, M. Chen, Z. Zhao, Z. Zhang, S. Ye, S. Xu, H. Wang, H. Li, Nat. Energy 2021, 6, 475.
- [2] C.-L. Yang, L.-N. Wang, P. Yin, J. Liu, M.-X. Chen, Q.-Q. Yan, Z.-S. Wang, S.-L. Xu, S.-Q. Chu, C. Cui, H. Ju, J. Zhu, Y. Lin, J. Shui, H.-W. Liang, Science 2021, 374, 459.
- [3] C.-Y. Ahn, J. E. Park, S. Kim, O.-H. Kim, W. Hwang, M. Her, S. Y. Kang, S. Park, O. J. Kwon, H. S. Park, Y.-H. Cho, Y.-E. Sung, *Chem. Rev.* 2021, 121, 15075.
- [4] R. Gao, J. Wang, Z.-F. Huang, R. Zhang, W. Wang, L. Pan, J. Zhang, W. Zhu, X. Zhang, C. Shi, J. Lim, J.-J. Zou, Nat. Energy 2021, 6, 614.
- [5] Z. Zhao, Z. Liu, A. Zhang, X. Yan, W. Xue, B. Peng, H. L. Xin, X. Pan, X. Duan, Y. Huang, Nat. Nanotechnol. 2022, 17, 968.
- [6] W. Guo, X. Gao, M. Zhu, C. Xu, X. Zhu, X. Zhao, R. Sun, Z. Xue, J. Song, L. Tian, J. Xu, W. Chen, Y. Lin, Y. Li, H. Zhou, Y. Wu, Energy Environ. Sci. 2023, 16, 148.
- [7] L. Tang, B. Han, K. Persson, C. Friesen, T. He, K. Sieradzki, G. Ceder, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 596.
- [8] S. Cherevko, N. Kulyk, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, Nano Energy 2016, 29, 275.
- [9] A. A. Topalov, S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin, J. C. Meier, I. Katsounaros, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, Chem. Sci. 2014, 5, 631.
- [10] P. J. Ferreira, G. J. la O', Y. Shao-Horn, D. Morgan, R. Makharia, S. Kocha, H. A. Gasteiger, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2005, 152, A2256.
- [11] E. F. Holby, W. Sheng, Y. Shao-Horn, D. Morgan, Energy Environ. Sci. 2009, 2, 865.
- [12] J. Zhang, Y. Yuan, L. Gao, G. Zeng, M. Li, H. Huang, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, 2006494.
- [13] M. Povia, J. Herranz, T. Binninger, M. Nachtegaal, A. Diaz, J. Kohlbrecher, D. F. Abbott, B.-J. Kim, T. J. Schmidt, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 7000
- [14] N. Linse, L. Gubler, G. G. Scherer, A. Wokaun, *Electrochim. Acta* 2011, 56, 7541.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [29] Z. Zhang, Q. Wu, K. Mao, Y. Chen, L. Du, Y. Bu, O. Zhuo, L. Yang, X. Wang, Z. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 8477.
- [30] I. Jiménez-Morales, F. Haidar, S. Cavaliere, D. Jones, J. Rozière, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 10399.
- [31] C. Meng, T. Ling, T. Y. Ma, H. Wang, Z. Hu, Y. Zhou, J. Mao, X. W. Du, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *29*, 1604607.
- [32] X. Han, F. Cheng, T. Zhang, J. Yang, Y. Hu, J. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *26*, 2047.
- [33] M. Liu, W. Tang, Z. Xie, H. Yu, H. Yin, Y. Xu, S. Zhao, S. Zhou, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 1583.
- [34] P. Gallezot, R. Weber, R. A. D. Betta, M. Boudart, *Z. Naturforsch., A* **1979**, *34*, 40.
- [35] J. Singh, C. Lamberti, J. A. van Bokhoven, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2010**, *39*, 4754.
- [36] F. de Groot, *Chem. Rev.* **2001**, *101*, 1779.
- [37] D. Grandjean, E. R. Benfield, C. Nayral, A. Maisonnat, B. Chaudert, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 8876.
- [38] R. Shen, W. Chen, Q. Peng, S. Lu, L. Zheng, X. Cao, Y. Wang, W. Zhu, J. Zhang, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Chem* **2019**, *5*, 2099.
- [39] R. Sharma, S. Gyergyek, S. M. Andersen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *311*, 121351.
- [40] H. S. Casalongue, S. Kaya, V. Viswanathan, D. J. Miller, D. Friebel, H. A. Hansen, J. K. Nørskov, A. Nilsson, H. Ogasawara, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2817.
- [41] T. Vidakovi´c, M. Christov, K. Sundmacher, *Electrochim. Acta* **2007**, *52*, 5606.
- [42] D. Zhang, Z. Shao, W. Yan, A. Li, *J. Phy. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 6218.
- [43] X. Lei, Q. Tang, Y. Zheng, P. Kidkhunthod, X. Zhou, B. Ji, Y. Tang, *Nat. Sustain.* **2023**, *6*, 816.
- [44] B. Ravel, M. Newville, *J. Synchrotron Radiat.* **2005**, *12*, 537.

- [15] L. Du, V. Prabhakaran, X. Xie, S. Park, Y. Wang, Y. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *33*, 1908232.
- [16] R. Kou, Y. Shao, D. Mei, Z. Nie, D. Wang, C. Wang, V. V. Viswanathan, S. Park, I. A. Aksay, Y. Lin, Y. Wang, J. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 2541.
- [17] W. Gao, Z. Zhang, M. Dou, F. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 3278.
- [18] L. Yang, S. Hou, S. Zhu, Z. Shi, X. Wang, J. Jiang, Y. Chu, J. Bai, Y. Wang, L. Zhang, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, J. Ge, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 13523.
- [19] S. Feng, J. Lu, L. Luo, G. Qian, J. Chen, H. S. Abbo, S. J. J. Titinchi, S. Yin, *J. Energy Chem.* **2020**, *51*, 246.
- [20] J. Chen, S. Feng, T. Yu, Y. Zou, H. Wen, S. Yin, *Chinese J. Struc. Chem.* **2023**, 42.
- [21] Y. Mo, S. Feng, T. Yu, J. Chen, G. Qian, L. Luo, S. Yin, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *607*, 1928.
- [22] G. Shi, T. Tano, D. A. Tryk, A. Iiyama, M. Uchida, K. Kakinuma, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 5222.
- [23] W. Cao, Y. Mao, B. Hu, Y. Yang, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 10799.
- [24] H. Jia, Y. Yang, T. H. Chow, H. Zhang, X. Liu, J. Wang, C. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2101255.
- [25] S. Porter, A. Ghosh, C. H. Liu, D. Kunwar, C. Thompson, R. Alcala, D. P. Dean, J. T. Miller, A. DeLaRiva, H. Pham, E. Peterson, A. Brearley, J. Watt, E. A. Kyriakidou, A. K. Datye, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 5456.
- [26] B. Zhang, J. Wang, G. Liu, C. M. Weiss, D. Liu, Y. Chen, L. Xia, P. Zhou, M. Gao, Y. Liu, J. Chen, Y. Yan, M. Shao, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2024**, *7*, 441.
- [27] J. Chen, G. Qian, B. Chu, Z. Jiang, K. Tan, L. Luo, B. Li, S. Yin, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2106773.
- [28] Y. Cheng, W. Xu, J. Hou, P. Kang, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 3676.