---
source: Zhang 等 - 2025 - Single‐Atomic Co‐N‐C Sites Anchored on Helical Carbonaceous Nanotubes for the Oxygen Reduction React.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 69.916s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:12:13.273127Z
---

# **Single-Atomic Co-N-C Sites Anchored on Helical Carbonaceous Nanotubes for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

*Jieling Zhang, Yonghong Mou, Weiran Suo, Shujiao Yang, Jian Shen, Hui Xu, Zequan Zeng, Rong Zhang, Zuozhong Liang,\* Yuan Wang,\* Haoquan Zheng,\* Jiahao Cao,\* and Rui Cao\**

**Metal-coordinated N-doped carbon (M-N-C) materials with highly curved structures have become a promising class of electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). However, the stability of these electrocatalysts remains a problem due to the traditional post-metal loading strategy. Herein, single-atomic Co-N-C active sites anchored on helical carbonaceous nanotubes (HCNTs) are prepared (Co-N-C@HCNT) by pyrolyzing Co porphyrins and helical polypyrroles (PPys) mixtures at high-temperature by one-step method. Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) measurements confirm single-atomic active sites and Co-N4 coordination structures of Co-N-C@HCNT. The optimized Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits excellent catalytic ORR activity with a half-wave potential (***E***1/2) of 0.86 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE) compared to Co-N-C@CNT without helical structures (***E***1/2 = 0.81 V vs RHE) measured in 0.1 m KOH. Co-N-C@HCNT also displays excellent stability with a slight current decrease (4%) after running for 10 h featuring Co-N4 active sites tightly anchored on HCNTs due to electrostatic interactions between metal porphyrins and PPys. Theoretical calculations indicate that the curved structure can increase the charge and decrease d-band center at Co active site, which enhances electrocatalytic activity. This work provides a simple but effective strategy to construct helical M-N-C materials.**

#### **1. Introduction**

The preparation and utilization of hydrogen (H2) have garnered significant attention primarily driven by concerns over environmental pollution.[\[1–6\]](#page-8-0) The practical application of H2 mainly relies on fuel cells (FCs), which offer a promising technology for clean energy conversion.[\[7–10\]](#page-8-0) Within FCs, the cathode reaction, specifically oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) to H2O, is a pivotal process that unfortunately suffers from sluggish kinetics due to its complex 4e<sup>−</sup>/4H<sup>+</sup> transfer mechanism.[\[11–20\]](#page-8-0) Currently, platinum (Pt)-based electrocatalysts are widely used for ORR due to their high activity and selectivity.[\[21–25\]](#page-8-0) However, the high price and limited natural abundance of Pt hinder their largescale applications. Recently, considerable research efforts have focused on minimizing Pt usage through the development of Pt-based alloy electrocatalysts.[\[26–30\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, there is a pressing need to explore efficient and cost-effective transition metal-based electrocatalysts that are entirely Pt-free, as they hold immense potential for advancing ORR catalysis.[\[31–42\]](#page-8-0)

J. Zhang, Y. Mou, S. Yang, J. Shen, H. Xu, Z. Liang, H. Zheng, R. Cao Key Laboratory of Applied Surface and Colloid Chemistry Ministry of Education School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Shaanxi Normal University Xi'an 710119, China

E-mail: [liangzuozhong@snnu.edu.cn;](mailto:liangzuozhong@snnu.edu.cn) [zhenghaoquan@snnu.edu.cn;](mailto:zhenghaoquan@snnu.edu.cn) [ruicao@snnu.edu.cn](mailto:ruicao@snnu.edu.cn)

W. Suo, Y. Wang School of Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology Xidian University Xi'an 710126, China E-mail: [yuanwang@xidian.edu.cn](mailto:yuanwang@xidian.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202417621>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202417621**

Z. Zeng, R. Zhang National Key Laboratory of High Efficiency and Low Carbon Utilization of Coal Institute of Coal Chemistry Chinese Academy of Sciences Taiyuan 030001, China J. Cao

Huawei Digital Power Technologies Co., Ltd. Shenzhen 518028, China E-mail: [jhcao95@163.com](mailto:jhcao95@163.com)

Metal-coordinated N-doped carbon (M-N-C) materials have emerged as promising alternatives to Pt-based electrocatalysts for ORR, showing remarkable potential in this field.[\[43–55\]](#page-8-0) M-N-C materials are engineered to develop highly active and stable catalysts through the optimization of metal central sites, coordination structures, and carbon substrates.[\[56\]](#page-9-0) Within the M-N-C landscape, helical M-N-C materials, characterized by their highly curved structures, have garnered significant attention.[\[57–64\]](#page-9-0) Conventionally, the synthesis of these helical M-N-C materials involves a two-step process. First, helical carbonaceous nanotubes (HCNTs) are prepared via high-temperature pyrolysis of helical polypyrroles (PPys). Subsequently, metal ions are incorporated onto HCNTs through a combination of adsorption and further pyrolysis. The unique curved surface of HCNTs enhances metal ion dispersion, facilitated by the charge separation within carbon atoms.[\[61\]](#page-9-0) Additionally, the application of strain engineering to these curved M-N-C structures enables fine-tuning of the electronic configuration of active centers, thereby boosting electrocatalytic performance.[\[65\]](#page-9-0) However, current preparation routes for helical M-N-C materials are marked by two time-consuming and economically unfeasible high-temperature pyrolysis steps. Moreover, the stability of adsorbed metal active sites remains a formidable challenge. Hence, there is a pressing need to devise an efficient preparation method for helical M-N-C electrocatalysts that guarantees both catalytic activity and stability.

Herein, we report a series of M-N-C@HCNT materials, realized through a direct pyrolysis approach of metal 5,10,15,20 tetrakis(4-carboxyphenyl)porphyrin (MTCPP, M = Co, Cu, Ni, Fe, Zn, and Mn; Figures S1,S3–S14, Supporting Information) and helical PPys. Particularly, the strategy harnesses the electrostatic interplay between CoTCPP and positively charged helical PPys, leading to formation of atomically dispersed Co-N4 active sites directly anchored on the surface of HCNTs. Notably, the integration of porphyrin ligands during the high-temperature carbonization process fosters an interfacial synergy between coordinated active sites and helical HCNTs, thereby improving the overall stability of catalysts. Co-N-C@HCNT outperforms Co-N-C@CNT counterpart without helical structures in terms of both electrocatalytic activity and stability for ORR. Additionally, Co-N-C@HCNT demonstrates long-term cycling durability in Zn-air batteries. Theoretical calculations offer insight into the role of curved structures. This work provides a new perspective on the synthesis of helical single-atomic Co-N-C electrocatalysts.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

The synthesis procedure for Co-N-C@HCNT is illustrated in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) Helical PPys were prepared with pyrroles and helical templates as raw materials as reported in the literature.[\[61,66\]](#page-9-0) Notably, Zeta potentials of helical PPys and CoTCPP are +18.98 and −5.93, respectively, indicating the presence of electrostatic interactions between these two materials (Table S1, Supporting Information). Upon mixing in solution, CoTCPP adheres to PPys surface via electrostatic attractions, and undergoes pyrolysis at 800 °C under an inert atmosphere. This process yields Co-N-C@HCNT, featuring Co-N-C active sites anchored on the surface of HCNTs. Compared with the post-synthesis method, the one-step method is simpler and consumes less energy. In addition, introducing metal active sites via post-synthesis methods may result in the leaching of Co during catalytic processes.[\[61\]](#page-9-0) Scanning electron microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM) images of helical PPys reveal a uniformly distributed, tubular spiral morphology (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0), with a magnified view confirming their left-handed helical configuration and an average diameter of 70 nm (Figure [1c;](#page-2-0) Figure S16, Supporting Information). Circular dichroism (CD) measurements indicate that both PPys and CoTCPP@PPys (where CoTCPP is adsorbed) exhibit preferential absorption of left-handed circularly polarized light (Figure S17, Supporting Information),[\[61\]](#page-9-0) and this helical morphology persists even after pyrolysis with metal porphyrins (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0). TEM analysis further confirms the helical and hollow structure of Co-N-C@HCNT (Figure [1e\)](#page-2-0), with an average helical nanotube diameter of 70 nm. Helical materials, characterized by abundant surface grooves and a high specific surface area, enhance the accessibility of active sites. Highresolution TEM (HRTEM) image displays interplanar distances of 0.33 nm, corresponding to the (002) plane of graphene carbon (Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0). Moreover, high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image coupled with elemental mappings demonstrate the uniform distribution of C, N, and Co within Co-N-C@HCNT (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0). From N2 adsorption/desorption isotherms, Co-N-C@HCNT has a Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area of 248.8 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S18a, Supporting Information). The pore size distribution of Co-N-C@HCNT shows obvious mesoporous structures with an average pore size of ≈15 nm, which is consistent with TEM measurements (Figure S18b, Supporting Information). In conclusion, the successful synthesis of Co-N-C anchored HCNTs is confirmed.

To further confirm the distribution and coordination structure of Co active sites, advanced measurements, such as aberrationcorrected HAADF-STEM and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS), were performed (**Figure [2](#page-3-0)**). HAADF-STEM images clearly reveal the presence of single atoms, evidenced by small, distinct bright dots (Figure [2a–c\)](#page-3-0). Additionally, a control sample was prepared by physically loading Co tetraphenylporphyrin (CoTPP; Figures S2 and S15, Supporting Information) onto commercial carbon nanotubes (CNTs) in a predetermined ratio, designated as CoTPP@CNT. Co foil and CoTPP@CNT served as benchmarks for comparison. The normalized Co K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra indicate that the adsorption edge energy of Co-N-C@HCNT aligns closely with that of CoTPP@CNT, indicating a comparable valence state (CoII) for both materials (Figure [2d\)](#page-3-0). Further examination of Fouriertransformed (FT) *k*3-weighted extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectrum (without phase correction) at the Co K-edge reveals a predominant peak centered at 1.33 Å, which corresponds to Co-N coordination (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0). Notably, Co─N bond length in Co-N-C@HCNT is slightly reduced compared to CoTPP@CNT (1.48 Å), likely due to the influence of hightemperature pyrolysis process and unique curvature of HCNTs. In contrast, Co foil displays a prominent peak at 2.17 Å, corresponding to Co-Co coordination. EXAFS fitting provides quantitative insights into structural parameters of Co atoms in Co-N-C@HCNT. The scattering path of Co-N is validated by improved fitting profiles in the R-space (R magnitude and R imaginary) for the first coordination shell of experimental data (Figure [2f;](#page-3-0) Figure S19, Supporting Information). The fitted coordination number

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Synthesis procedure of Co-N-C@HCNT and schematic illustration of corresponding interface structures. SEM images of helical PPys (b,c) and Co-N-C@HCNT (d). e) TEM image, f) HRTEM image, g) HAADF-STEM image, and corresponding C, N, and Co elemental mappings of Co-N-C@HCNT.

for Co atom in the first shell is determined to be 3.918, indicating that the majority of Co atoms in Co-N-C@HCNT exhibit a coordination number of 4.0. Based on the XANES and EXAFS analysis, Co atoms in Co-N-C@HCNT are atomically distributed in the curved structure, forming the coordination structure of Co-N4, as shown in the inset of Figure [2f.](#page-3-0) Moreover, wavelet transforms (WT) contour plots of Co-N-C@HCNT confirm the presence of a Co-N scattering path, consistent with the preceding findings (Figure [2g–i\)](#page-3-0). This indicates that the coordination structure of metalloporphyrin precursors is retained.

In addition, a systematic series of Co-N-C-*x*@HCNT materials, where *x* denotes the quantity of CoTCPP added (ranging from 1 to 20 mg), have been successfully synthesized. These materials are designated as Co-N-C-1@HCNT, Co-N-C-5@HCNT, CoN-C-10@HCNT, and Co-N-C-20@HCNT, respectively, exhibiting a uniform helical morphology (Figure S20, Supporting Information). Notably, Co-N-C@HCNT featured in Figure [2](#page-3-0) specifically corresponds to Co-N-C-10@HCNT. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis of HCNTs and Co-N-C-*x*@HCNT reveals the presence of diffraction peaks of carbon (002), confirming the formation of carbon-based materials (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0). Notably, the absence of distinct diffraction peaks for metallic Co suggests that no large Co nanoparticles are present. Raman spectra of HCNT and Co-N-C-*x*@HCNT exhibit two distinct peaks at 1349 and 1571 cm<sup>−</sup>1, corresponding to D band and G band, respectively (Figure [3b\)](#page-4-0). Additionally, the *I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> ratio observed in Co-N-C-*x*@HCNT suggests the same level of carbon disorder (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Raman spectroscopy reveals characteristic peaks

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a–c) Aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images of Co-N-C@HCNT. d) Normalized Co K-edge XANES and e) *k*3-weighted FT-EXAFS spectra (without phase correction) of Co-N-C@HCNT, Co foil, and CoTPP@CNT. f) Co K-edge *k*3-weighted FT-EXAFS fitting curves of Co-N-C@HCNT at R-space. Co K-edge WT-EXAFS contour plots of Co foil (g), CoTPP@CNT (h), and Co-N-C@HCNT (i).

(*A*1g, *F*2g, and *E*g) for Co in Co-N-C-20@HCNT. The dense distribution of Co single-atoms in Co-N-C-10@HCNT, as seen in Figure 2c, may lead to aggregation upon further increasing the loading of metal porphyrins, as observed in Co-N-C-20@HCNT. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of Co-N-C-*x*@HCNT series confirm the presence of distinct peaks for Co, N, O, and C, with no Co signal detected in pristine HC-NTs (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0). High-resolution XPS spectrum of Co 2p3/2 for Co-N-C-20@HCNT exhibits two peaks, attributed to Co-CxNy (780.6 eV) and Co-Nx (783.2 eV) (Figure [3d\)](#page-4-0).[\[61,67–69\]](#page-9-0) A satellite peak of Co is also observed at 786.5 eV. XPS spectra of N 1s exhibit four distinct peaks, corresponding to pyridinic N (398.5 eV, 31.8%), Co-Nx (399.5 eV, 19.5%), pyrrolic N (401.2 eV, 36.6%), and graphic N (402.9 eV, 11.1%) (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0).[\[67\]](#page-9-0) Notably, the intensity of Co-Nx peak at 399.5 eV increases with increasing metal porphyrins added, reinforcing the presence of Co-N4 active site. The inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis confirms that Co-N-C-10@HCNT contains ≈0.26 wt.% of Co. Electrocatalytic ORR performance was evaluated using a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in an O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solution (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0). Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements at 1600 rpm indicate a gradual increase in ORR activity with increasing CoTCPP loading, peaking at Co-N-C-10@HCNT (Table S2, Supporting Information). However, further increasing metal porphyrin content to Co-N-C-20@HCNT results in a decrease in electrocatalytic ORR activity, likely due to the aggregation Co atoms. In addition, a series of Co-N-C-10@HCNT were synthesized at different temperatures ranging from 700 to 1000 °C (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The Co-N-C-10@HCNT obtained at 800 °C exhibits the optimal ORR performance.

Electrocatalytic ORR activity of Co-N-C-10@HCNT, alternately referred to as Co-N-C@HCNT, was comprehensively assessed using a rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE). Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits a prominent O2 reduction peak, distinctly observable when compared to the baseline under Ar condition (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-5-0). Notably, Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits an onset potential (*E*onset) of 0.90 V

1616928, 2025, 12 Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/0.1002/atmf202417621 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0601/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a) XRD patterns, b) Raman spectra, c) full survey XPS spectra, d) Co 2p XPS spectra, e) N 1s XPS spectra, and f) ORR LSV data of HCNT and Co-N-C-x@HCNT.

versus reversible hydrogen electrode (vs RHE) and a half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of 0.86 V (vs RHE), which is comparable to commercial Pt/C (20 wt.%, Figure 4b). In contrast, HCNT displays a low  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.69 V (vs RHE). To investigate the influence of structural curvature on electrocatalytic performance, Co-N-C@CNT, synthesized from PPys precursors without helical structures, was employed as a comparative study (Figure S23, Supporting Information). Interestingly, Co-N-C@CNT exhibits a low  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.81 V (vs RHE). The performance difference between Co-N-C@HCNT and Co-N-C@CNT confirms the beneficial effect of helical structures on ORR performance. Figure 4c provides a comparative overview of  $E_{1/2}$  for these four samples. In terms of reaction kinetics, Co-N-C@HCNT demonstrates the most favorable Tafel slope of 62.9 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, outperforming HCNT (120.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Co-N- $C@CNT (106.8 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) \text{ and } Pt/C (87.4 \text{ mV dec}^{-1}) (Figure 4d).$ Assuming that all Co atoms on the electrode are available, the calculated turnover frequency (TOF) of Co-N-C@HCNT at 0.2 V (vs RHE) is 1.57 e site<sup>-1</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>, which exceeds that of Pt/C (0.069 e site $^{-1}$  s $^{-1}$ ). The average electron transfer number (n) for Co-N-C@HCNT measured at 0.20 – 0.60 V (vs RHE) is 3.61, which is lower than that of Pt/C with a value of 3.93 (Figure 4e). Accordingly, the yield of  $H_2O_2$  for Co-N-C@HCNT is  $\approx 20\%$  (Figure S24, Supporting Information). When further analyzed through varying rotation speeds (Figure 4f) and utilizing Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equation, the calculated *n* value for Co-N-C@HCNT is 3.69, aligning well with RRDE measurements (Figure 4g). The intrinsic activity of Co-N-C@HCNT was assessed through the kinetic current density  $(j_k)$  as described in the K-L equation. Co-N-C@HCNT demonstrates a  $j_k$  of 8.44 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.85 V (vs RHE). Contrary to typical 2e<sup>-</sup> ORR selectivity observed in Co porphyrin systems due to the energetic and stability challenges associated with Co-oxo species, Co-N-C@HCNT system likely undergoes a binuclear reaction mechanism, attributed to the dense distribution of Co single-atoms.<sup>[2]</sup> Moreover, the direct integration of Co-N<sub>4</sub> active sites onto the highly conductive HCNT further enhances electron transfer efficiency, which is in line with previous literature reports.<sup>[70]</sup> Consequently, Co-N-C@HCNT predominantly facilitates a 4e- ORR process, underscoring its exceptional electrocatalytic performance.

Stability tests were conducted on HCNT, Co-N-C@CNT, Co-N-C@HCNT, and Pt/C, focusing on methanol tolerance and long-term stability. The introduction of methanol into electrolyte induced negligible alterations in the current response for HCNT, Co-N-C@CNT, and Co-N-C@HCNT, indicating exceptional electrocatalytic ORR stability exhibited by Co-N-C@HCNT, which has atomically dispersed Co-N<sub>4</sub> active sites (Figure 4h).

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) CV data of Co-N-C@HCNT measured in Ar and O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH solutions. b) ORR LSV data, c) comparison of *E*1/2, d) Tafel slopes, e) calculated *n* values, h) methanol resistance tests, and i) stability tests of HCNT, Co-N-C@CNT, Co-N-C@HCNT, and Pt/C measured at 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1 m KOH. f) ORR LSV data at different rotation speeds and g) K-L plots of Co-N-C@HCNT.

In contrast, Pt/C demonstrates a rapid current decline, highlighting its methanol intolerance. After 10 h of continuous operation, Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits a marginal current decrease of 4%, underscoring its remarkable electrocatalytic ORR stability (Figure 4i). Conversely, HCNT, Co-N-C@CNT, and Pt/C show significant current decays of≈20%, 25%, and 30%, respectively. A comparative analysis of Co-N-C@HCNT with other Co-based catalysts reported in the literature reveals that this material exhibits outstanding catalytic activity and stability (Table S3, Supporting Information). In contrast, Co@HCNT prepared with the postsynthesis method exhibited an *E*1/2 of 0.84 V (vs RHE) and over 10% decrease in current density after 10 h of stability test.[\[61\]](#page-9-0) Notably, Co-N-C@HCNT maintained its helical morphology and coordination structure post-ORR testing (Figures S25 and S26, Supporting Information). The structural stability of Co-N-C@HCNT was also evaluated by performing accelerated stress tests (Figures S27–S30, Supporting Information). CV measurements with 5000 cycles in a wide potential range were carried out. The comparative analysis underscores the superiority of helical structure over Co-N-C@CNT in terms of both activity and stability. To delve into the significance of carboxyl group, CoTPP was employed as a reference. Under identical pyrolysis conditions, CoTPP@HCNT has an *E*1/2 of 0.82 V (vs RHE) (Figure S31, Supporting Information). Notably, the current density of CoTPP@HCNT declined by 16% after 10 h of operation (Figure S32, Supporting Information), demonstrating the crucial role of electrostatic interaction between CoTCPP and helical PPys in facilitating metal porphyrin loading and enhancing electrocatalytic ORR stability.

The performance comparison of electrocatalytic ORR for other transition metal-based M-N-C@HCNT (M = Cu, Ni, Fe, Zn, and Mn) materials was investigated with optimized loading of metal porphyrins. Notably, all synthesized M-N-C@HCNT materials have uniform helical morphology (Figures S33–S37, Supporting Information). Among these, Fe-N-C@HCNT exhibits an

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Schematic illustration of Co-N-C@HCNT in a rechargeable Zn-air battery. b) Open circuit voltage, c) discharge polarization curves and power density curves, and d) discharge curves at *j* = 20.0 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for Co-N-C@HCNT and Pt/C + RuO2. e) Discharge–charge cycling data and f) long-time cycling test measured at *j* = 2.0 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of Zn-air batteries assembled with Co-N-C@HCNT + RuO2 and Pt/C + RuO2. Photos of g) toy fan, h) toy car, and i) LED powered by Zn-air batteries assembled with Co-N-C@HCNT.

*E*1/2 of 0.83 V (vs RHE) compared to Cu-N-C@HCNT (0.73 V vs RHE), Ni-N-C@HCNT (0.72 V vs RHE), Zn-N-C@HCNT (0.78 V vs RHE), and Mn-N-C@HCNT (0.72 V vs RHE) (Figure S38, Supporting Information). Fe-N-C@HCNT gives a Tafel slope of 72.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> compared to Cu-N-C@HCNT (85.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ni-N-C@HCNT (97.4 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Zn-N-C@HCNT (76.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and Mn-N-C@HCNT (93.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure S39, Supporting Information). Furthermore, oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance of Co-N-C@HCNT was investigated. Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits an overpotential of 385 mV measured in 1.0 m KOH at *j* = 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S40, Supporting Information). Notably, the voltage gap Δ*E*(ORR-OER) between ORR (*E*1/2) and OER (*Ej* <sup>=</sup> 10) is only 750 mV, demonstrating the bifunctional electrocatalytic activity of Co-N-C@HCNT for both ORR and OER (Figure S41, Supporting Information). Differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) analysis revealed obvious oxidation peaks corresponding to CoII/III and CoIII/IV in Co-N-C@HCNT (Figure S42, Supporting Information). Moreover, Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits excellent OER stability over a 10 h period (Figure S43, Supporting Information). In conclusion, Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits exceptional bifunctional electrocatalytic activity and stability for both ORR and OER.

Utilizing bifunctional Co-N-C@HCNT catalysts, the performance of rechargeable Zn-air batteries was thoroughly evaluated under alkaline conditions. A Zn-air battery was constructed, featuring a Zn plate anode and a catalyst-coated carbon cloth air cathode (**Figure 5**a). The aqueous electrolyte was composed of Zn(OAc)2·2H2O (0.2 m) and KOH (6.0 m). As a benchmark, a mixture of commercial Pt/C + RuO2 was employed. Co-N-C@HCNT-based Zn-air battery shows an open-circuit voltage of 1.47 V, surpassing that of Pt/C + RuO2 with a value of 1.43 V (Figure 5b). Notably, Co-N-C@HCNT also demonstrates a superior discharge power density of 130 mW cm<sup>−</sup>2, compared to 96 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Pt/C + RuO2 (Figure 5c), indicating heightened activity and enhanced rechargeability. Moreover, under identical operating conditions, Co-N-C@HCNT shows a higher specific capacity of 750 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> compared to 710 mAh g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for

**Figure 6.** Model structures and charge density difference diagrams (a,d), DOS diagrams (b,e), and d-band centers of Co 3d (c,f) for Co-N-C (a–c) and curved Co-N-C (d–f ).

Pt/C + RuO2 (Figure [5d\)](#page-6-0). To further investigate long-term performance, RuO2 was incorporated into Co-N-C@HCNT. For both Co-N-C@HCNT + RuO2 and Pt/C + RuO2, the galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling was conducted at *j* = 2.0 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Remarkably, Zn-air battery utilizing Co-N-C@HCNT + RuO2 exhibits a discharge potential of 1.20 V and a charge potential of 2.00 V, resulting in a charge-discharge voltage gap of 0.80 V, which is comparable to that of Pt/C + RuO2 (Figure [5e\)](#page-6-0). This battery exhibits stable charge and discharge voltages for over 160 h at *j* = 2.0 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [5f\)](#page-6-0). Demonstrating practical applicability, Zn-air batteries incorporating Co-N-C@HCNT successfully powered a toy fan, toy car, and light-emitting diode (LED) (Figure [5g–i\)](#page-6-0), showing their potential for diverse energy storage and conversion applications.

To determine the favorable effect of curved structure on Co active site, we constructed computational models of Co-N-C with planar structure (**Figure 6**a) and curved structure (Figure 6d). Charge density difference diagrams show that curved Co-N-C leads to stronger charge transfer between N and C atoms around Co atoms, with outermost C atoms losing more charge, indicating an increase in charge in active center region. The atomic partial density of states (PDOS) and total density of states (TDOS) diagrams were calculated for active central region (Figure 6b,e). The overlapping of s and p orbitals at some positions indicates the sp<sup>3</sup> hybridization between N-C and C-C. Near the Fermi energy level, p-orbitals in the planar structure have more energy than d-orbitals, suggesting that electron transfer is mainly between N and C. Conversely, in curved Co-N-C, the d-orbital energy is greater than p-orbital, indicating enhanced electron transport at Co active site.[\[71\]](#page-9-0) In DOS of Co atoms, curved Co atom exhibits higher energy levels compared to their planar counterparts (Figure S44, Supporting Information). The d-band center decreases in curved Co-N-C (−1.34 eV) compared to that of Co-N-C (−1.29 eV) (Figure 6c,f), indicating that the curved structure can effectively reduce the d-band center of Co active site, which in turn facilitates a reduced adsorption-desorption energy barrier for intermediate active species, ultimately enhancing electrocatalytic activity.[\[72\]](#page-9-0)

## **3. Conclusion**

In conclusion, we have successfully synthesized a series of Co-N-C-*x*@HCNT materials featuring curved structures, employing one-step pyrolysis method that utilizes metal porphyrins and PPys as precursors. Co-N-C@HCNT has a uniform distribution of Co elements and atomic Co-N4 active sites. Optimized Co-N-C@HCNT exhibits an *E*1/2 of 0.86 V (vs RHE), outperforming Co-N-C@CNT without helical structures in terms of electrocatalytic ORR activity. Furthermore, the synergy between CoTCPP and helical PPys, mediated by electrostatic interactions, endows Co-N-C@HCNT with exceptional methanol tolerance and longterm stability compared with commercial Pt/C. Theoretical modeling has illuminated the beneficial influence of curved structure on electrocatalytic performance. This work opens up a novel and efficient avenue for the synthesis of stable helical single-atomic M-N-C@HCNT materials, marking a significant advancement in the field.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

J.Z., Y.M., and W.S. contributed equally to this work. The authors are grateful for support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22178213, 22171176, 22478237, and 22325202), the Innovation <span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2025, 12, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202417621 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Capability Support Program of Shaanxi Province (2023KJXX-018), Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (GK202309002 and GK202207007), the National Key Laboratory of High Efficiency and Low Carbon Utilization of Coal (J23-24-202), and the International Joint Research Center on Advanced Characterizations of Xi'an City.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

#### **Keywords**

Co-N-C, Co-N-C@HCNT, helical, metal porphyrin, oxygen reduction reaction

> Received: September 19, 2024 Revised: October 23, 2024 Published online: November 7, 2024

- [1] M. Chatenet, B. G. Pollet, D. R. Dekel, F. Dionigi, J. Deseure, P. Millet, R. D. Braatz, M. Z. Bazant, M. Eikerling, I. Staffell, P. Balcombe, Y. Shao-Horn, H. Schäfer, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2022**, *51*, 4583.
- [2] W. Zhang, W. Lai, R. Cao, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *117*, 3717.
- [3] X. Peng, M. Zhang, H. Qin, J. Han, Y. Xu, W. Li, X.-P. Zhang, W. Zhang, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202401074.
- [4] T. Wang, L. Tao, X. Zhu, C. Chen, W. Chen, S. Du, Y. Zhou, B. Zhou, D. Wang, C. Xie, P. Long, W. Li, Y. Wang, R. Chen, Y. Zou, X.-Z. Fu, Y. Li, X. Duan, S. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 66.
- [5] M. Lu, S.-B. Zhang, M.-Y. Yang, Y.-F. Liu, J.-P. Liao, P. Huang, M. Zhang, S.-L. Li, Z.-M. Su, Y.-Q. Lan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202307632.
- [6] C. Hu, K. Yue, J. Han, X. Liu, L. Liu, Q. Liu, Q. Kong, C.-W. Pao, Z. Hu, K. Suenaga, D. Su, Q. Zhang, X. Wang, Y. Tan, X. Huang, *Sci. Adv.* **2023**, *9*, eadf9144.
- [7] Y. Yang, P. Li, X. Zheng, W. Sun, S. X. Dou, T. Ma, H. Pan, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2022**, *51*, 9620.
- [8] F. Jaouen, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 733.
- [9] S. Zaman, L. Huang, A. I. Douka, H. Yang, B. You, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 17832.
- [10] B. Yang, Z. Xiang, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *18*, 11598.
- [11] Y. Cao, Y. Mou, J. Zhang, R. Zhang, Z. Liang, *Mater. Today Catal.* **2024**, *4*, 100044.
- [12] T.-W. Song, C. Xu, Z.-T. Sheng, H.-K. Yan, L. Tong, J. Liu, W.-J. Zeng, L.- J. Zuo, P. Yin, M. Zuo, S.-Q. Chu, P. Chen, H.-W. Liang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6521.
- [13] Z. Liang, J. Zhang, H. Zheng, R. Cao, *Chem. Commun.* **2024**, *60*, 2216.
- [14] W. Xu, R. Zeng, M. Rebarchik, A. Posada-Borbón, H. Li, C. J. Pollock, M. Mavrikakis, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 2593.
- [15] J. Han, H. Tan, K. Guo, H. Lv, X. Peng, W. Zhang, H. Lin, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202409793.
- [16] L. Huang, S. Zaman, X. Tian, Z. Wang, W. Fang, B. Y. Xia, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2021**, *54*, 311.
- [17] Z. Liang, G. Zhou, H. Tan, Y. Mou, J. Zhang, H. Guo, S. Yang, H. Lei, H. Zheng, W. Zhang, H. Lin, R. Cao, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2408094.

- [18] S. Zaman, Y.-Q. Su, C.-L. Dong, R. Qi, L. Huang, Y. Qin, Y.-C. Huang, F.-M. Li, B. You, W. Guo, Q. Li, S. Ding, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202115835.
- [19] L. Yan, P. Li, Q. Zhu, A. Kumar, K. Sun, S. Tian, X. Sun, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 280.
- [20] X. Li, H. Qin, J. Han, X. Jin, Y. Xu, S. Yang, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2310820.
- [21] Z. Ma, Z. P. Cano, A. Yu, Z. Chen, G. Jiang, X. Fu, L. Yang, T. Wu, Z. Bai, J. Lu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 18334.
- [22] X. Zhao, K. Sasaki, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2022**, *55*, 1226.
- [23] Z. Zhang, Z. Zhang, C. Chen, R. Wang, M. Xie, S. Wan, R. Zhang, L. Cong, H. Lu, Y. Han, W. Xing, Z. Shi, S. Feng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 2556.
- [24] A. Han, X. Wang, K. Tang, Z. Zhang, C. Ye, K. Kong, H. Hu, L. Zheng, P. Jiang, C. Zhao, Q. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19262.
- [25] L. Tao, K. Wang, F. Lv, H. Mi, F. Lin, H. Luo, H. Guo, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 6893.
- [26] R. Gui, H. Cheng, M. Wang, X. Tai, H. Zhang, C. Liu, X. Cao, C. Chen, M. Ge, H. Wang, X. Zheng, W. Chu, Y. Lin, Y. Xie, C. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2307661.
- [27] Y. Jiang, Q. Zhang, J. Qian, Y. Wang, Y. Mu, Z. Zhang, Z. Li, T. Zhao, B. Liu, L. Zeng, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 6992.
- [28] L. Huang, Y.-Q. Su, R. Qi, D. Dang, Y. Qin, S. Xi, S. Zaman, B. You, S. Ding, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 25530.
- [29] J. Liang, Y. Wan, H. Lv, X. Liu, F. Lv, S. Li, J. Xu, Z. Deng, J. Liu, S. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Luo, G. Lu, J. Han, G. Wang, Y. Huang, S. Guo, Q. Li, *Nat. Mater.* **2024**, *23*, 1259.
- [30] Q. Huang, L. Hu, X. Chen, W. Cai, L. Wang, B. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2302582.
- [31] Z. Liang, H.-Y. Wang, H. Zheng, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 2540.
- [32] Z. Liang, H. Guo, G. Zhou, K. Guo, B. Wang, H. Lei, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 8472.
- [33] C.-X. Zhao, J.-N. Liu, J. Wang, D. Ren, J. Yu, X. Chen, B.-Q. Li, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008606.
- [34] C.-X. Zhao, J.-N. Liu, J. Wang, D. Ren, B.-Q. Li, Q. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 7745.
- [35] Q. Zhao, Q. Zhang, Y. Xu, A. Han, H. He, H. Zheng, W. Zhang, H. Lei, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, 202414104.
- [36] P. Li, Y. Jiao, Y. Ruan, H. Fei, Y. Men, C. Guo, Y. Wu, S. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 6936.
- [37] A. Han, W. Sun, X. Wan, D. Cai, X. Wang, F. Li, J. Shui, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202303185.
- [38] B. Yang, Q. Han, L. Han, Y. Leng, T. O'Carroll, X. Yang, G. Wu, Z. Xiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208661.
- [39] Y. He, H. Guo, S. Hwang, X. Yang, Z. He, J. Braaten, S. Karakalos, W. Shan, M. Wang, H. Zhou, Z. Feng, K. L. More, G. Wang, D. Su, D. A. Cullen, L. Fei, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003577.
- [40] Y.-X. Zhang, S. Zhang, H. Huang, X. Liu, B. Li, Y. Lee, X. Wang, Y. Bai, M. Sun, Y. Wu, S. Gong, X. Liu, Z. Zhuang, T. Tan, Z. Niu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 4819.
- [41] J. Meng, H. Qin, H. Lei, X. Li, J. Fan, W. Zhang, U.-P. Apfel, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202312255.
- [42] P.-C. Shi, D.-H. Si, M.-S. Yao, T.-T. Liu, Y.-B. Huang, T. Zhang, R. Cao, *Sci. China Mater.* **2022**, *65*, 1531.
- [43] L. Peng, J. Yang, Y. Yang, F. Qian, Q. Wang, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202544.
- [44] J. Li, W. Xia, J. Tang, Y. Gao, C. Jiang, Y. Jia, T. Chen, Z. Hou, R. Qi, D. Jiang, T. Asahi, X. Xu, T. Wang, J. He, Y. Yamauchi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9280.
- [45] J. Yang, W. Liu, M. Xu, X. Liu, H. Qi, L. Zhang, X. Yang, S. Niu, D. Zhou, Y. Liu, Y. Su, J.-F. Li, Z.-Q. Tian, W. Zhou, A. Wang, T. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 14530.

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[46] K. Sun, J. Dong, H. Sun, X. Wang, J. Fang, Z. Zhuang, S. Tian, X. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 1164.
- [47] B. Wu, T. Sun, Y. You, H. Meng, D. M. Morales, M. Lounasvuori, A. Beheshti Askari, L. Jiang, F. Zeng, B. Hu, X. Zhang, R. Tai, Z. J. Xu, T. Petit, L. Mai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202219188.
- [48] Z. Yang, Y. Wang, M. Zhu, Z. Li, W. Chen, W. Wei, T. Yuan, Y. Qu, Q. Xu, C. Zhao, X. Wang, P. Li, Y. Li, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 2158.
- [49] Z. Liang, N. Kong, C. Yang, W. Zhang, H. Zheng, H. Lin, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 12759.
- [50] L. Shi, X. Lin, F. Liu, Y. Long, R. Cheng, C. Tan, L. Yang, C. Hu, S. Zhao, D. Liu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 5397.
- [51] J. Wang, C. Hu, L. Wang, Y. Yuan, K. Zhu, Q. Zhang, L. Yang, J. Lu, Z. Bai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2304277.
- [52] D. Geng, Y. Huang, S. Yuan, Y. Jiang, H. Ren, S. Zhang, Z. Liu, J. Feng, T. Wei, Z. Fan, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207227.
- [53] L. Liu, L. Kang, J. Feng, D. G. Hopkinson, C. S. Allen, Y. Tan, H. Gu, I. Mikulska, V. Celorrio, D. Gianolio, T. Wang, L. Zhang, K. Li, J. Zhang, J. Zhu, G. Held, P. Ferrer, D. Grinter, J. Callison, M. Wilding, S. Chen, I. Parkin, G. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 4079.
- [54] L. Jiao, J. Zhu, Y. Zhang, W. Yang, S. Zhou, A. Li, C. Xie, X. Zheng, W. Zhou, S.-H. Yu, H.-L. Jiang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 19417.
- [55] C.-X. Zhao, D. Ren, J. Wang, J.-N. Liu, C. Tang, X. Chen, B.-Q. Li, Q. Zhang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *73*, 478.
- [56] Z. Miao, S. Li, C. Priest, T. Wang, G. Wu, Q. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200595.
- [57] M. Zheng, J. Liu, K. Shi, Y. Zhao, T. Zhang, F. Liu, Y. Chen, Y. Sun, Y. Zhang, H. Wang, *Colloids Surf. A* **2023**, *675*, 132112.
- [58] Z. Bao, Y. Wang, M. Shi, X. Wang, Z. Liang, Z. Huang, W. Zhang, R. Cao, H. Zheng, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 11288.

- [59] J. Yang, Z. Wang, C.-X. Huang, Y. Zhang, Q. Zhang, C. Chen, J. Du, X. Zhou, Y. Zhang, H. Zhou, L. Wang, X. Zheng, L. Gu, L.-M. Yang, Y. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22722.
- [60] Y. Wang, T. Yang, X. Fan, Z. Bao, A. Tayal, H. Tan, M. Shi, Z. Liang, W. Zhang, H. Lin, R. Cao, Z. Huang, H. Zheng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202313034.
- [61] Z. Liang, X. Fan, H. Lei, J. Qi, Y. Li, J. Gao, M. Huo, H. Yuan, W. Zhang, H. Lin, H. Zheng, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 13187.
- [62] Z. Chen, Y. Zou, H. Chen, K. Zhang, B. Hui, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2307776.
- [63] G. Chen, R. Lu, C. Li, J. Yu, X. Li, L. Ni, Q. Zhang, G. Zhu, S. Liu, J. Zhang, U. I. Kramm, Y. Zhao, G. Wu, J. Xie, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300907.
- [64] Y. Zhu, Y. Jiang, H. Li, D. Zhang, L. Tao, X.-Z. Fu, M. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202319370.
- [65] J. Su, C. B. Musgrave, Y. Song, L. Huang, Y. Liu, G. Li, Y. Xin, P. Xiong, M. M.-J. Li, H. Wu, M. Zhu, H. M. Chen, J. Zhang, H. Shen, B. Z. Tang, M. Robert, W. A. Goddard, R. Ye, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 818.
- [66] S. Liu, Y. Duan, X. Feng, J. Yang, S. Che, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 6858.
- [67] Z. Li, M. Shao, L. Zhou, R. Zhang, C. Zhang, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 2337.
- [68] M. Kuang, Q. Wang, P. Han, G. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700193.
- [69] X. Zhang, X. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Li, Q. Guan, J. Wang, Z. Zhuang, Q. Zhuang, X. Cheng, H. Liu, J. Zhang, C. Shen, H. Lin, Y. Wang, L. Zhan, L. Ling, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2302624.
- [70] C.-X. Zhao, J.-N. Liu, J. Wang, C. Wang, X. Guo, X.-Y. Li, X. Chen, L. Song, B.-Q. Li, Q. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2022**, *8*, eabn5091.
- [71] N. Meng, Y. Feng, Z. Zhao, F. Lian, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2400855.
- [72] T. Li, L. Zhang, L. Zhang, J. Ke, T. Du, L. Zhang, Y. Cao, C. Yan, T. Qian, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2309886.