---
source: Zhang 等 - 2020 - Co3 O4 on Fe, N Doped Bio‐Carbon Substrate for Electrocatalysis of Oxygen Redu.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 48.779s
generated: 2026-01-09T13:58:11.572651Z
---

European Journal of Inorganic Chemistry

## **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Co3O4 on Fe, N Doped Bio-carbon Substrate for Electrocatalysis of Oxygen Reduction

**Authors:** Wei Zhang, Jing Shi, Mengting Duan, Xiangzhi Tong, Dongcheng Zhou, Jiale Chen, Xingmei Guo, Junhao Zhang, Qinghong Kong, and Xiaofang Cheng

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* 10.1002/ejic.202000645

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/ejic.202000645

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

# Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> on Fe, N Doped Bio-carbon Substrate for Electrocatalysis of Oxygen Reduction

Wei Zhang,<sup>[a]</sup> Jing Shi,<sup>[a]</sup> Mengting Duan,<sup>[a]</sup> Xiangzhi Tong,<sup>[a]</sup> Dongcheng Zhou,<sup>[a]</sup> Jiale Chen,<sup>[a]</sup> Xingmei Guo,<sup>\*[a]</sup> Junhao Zhang,<sup>[a]</sup> Qinghong Kong,<sup>[b]</sup> Xiaofang Cheng<sup>[a]</sup>

[a] W. Zhang, J. Shi, M. Duan, X. Tong, D. Zhou, J. Chen, Dr. X. Guo, Prof. J. Zhang, Dr. X. Cheng School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering Jiangsu University of Science and Technology No. 2 Mengxi Road, Zhenjiang 212003, China E-mail: guoxm@just.edu.cn

[b] Dr. Q. Kong School of the Environment and Safety Engineering Jiangsu University No. 301 Xuefu Road, Zhenjiang 212013, China

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

Abstract: Searching for efficient non-noble metal electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) has become a hot topic in electrochemical field. Herein, duck blood containing heme (a type of ferriporphyrin) is carbonized and activated to obtain Fe, N doped carbon. The activated carbonized blood (a-CB) exhibits an extremely high specific surface area of 2655 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. Then, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles are loaded on the efficient substrate via hydrothermal method. The as obtained Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB composite exhibits good catalytic performance for ORR. The onset and half-wave potentials are 0.95 and 0.77 V vs. RHE, respectively. These values are comparable to those of commercial Pt/C (20 wt%) catalyst. What's more, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB shows better durability and methanol tolerance than commercial Pt/C, making it a promising electrocatalyst for ORR. Compared to artificial porous heteroatom doped carbon materials, this work seeks raw materials from natural biomass waste to obtain efficient carbon substrate with both high porosity and Fe, N self-doping feature for catalyst applications.

#### Introduction

With the increasing concern on energy and environmental issues, developing sustainable energy conversion techniques has become an important field of current research. Fuel cells can efficiently convert the chemical energy of fuels into electric energy and has been considered as a green and sustainable energy conversion device.<sup>[1]</sup> However, oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), which is a key reaction on the cathodes of fuel cells, exhibits relatively slow reaction kinetics and limits the energy conversion efficiency of the whole device. Hence, searching for efficient electrocatalyst for ORR is highly important. Although, Pt and its alloy materials show good electrocatalytic activity, [2] the scarcity and high cost, as well as the CO poisoning problem and poor methanol tolerance of Pt based catalysts, seriously hinder the commercialization process of fuel cells. Therefore, designing and developing efficient and stable non-precious metal catalysts to replace Pt-based materials has always been a research hotspot.[3]

So far, a series of non-precious metal catalysts such as transition metal oxides, [4] sulfides, [5] carbides, [6] nitrides, [7] phosphides, [8] and non-metal carbon-based materials [9] have been studied. Among them, transition metal oxides are the most widely investigated. For example,  $\text{Fe}_3\text{O}_4$ , [10]  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$ , [11]  $\text{MnO}_2$ , [12]

etc. have been proved to have high ORR catalytic activity. However, a disadvantage of metal oxide catalysts is their poor conductivity. [13] Therefore, they are usually combined with other conductive substances before being utilized as electrocatalysts.

Carbon is regarded as a good carrier for active species, due to its wide source, high stability and excellent electric conductivity. [14] Besides loading active metal oxides, the electrochemical activity of carbon materials can also be further improved by surface modification, heteroatomic doping and so on. [15] Among them, metal-nitrogen-doped carbon materials, such as Co, N doped and Fe, N doped carbon, usually show considerable electrocatalytic activity themselves. [16] Employing metal-nitrogen-doped carbon as substrate and further introducing active metal oxides on the surface would be a good idea to obtain high-performance ORR electrocatalysts.

Herein, we used an economical and environmental friendly method to fabricate a highly efficient catalyst. We produced Fe, N-doped carbon by using duck blood as source material and chose cobalt oxide as an exemplary attempt to synthesize Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB composite (Scheme 1). Duck blood, a type of biomass waste in food industry, contains large amount of heme which is a type of ferriporphyrin. [17] Metal porphyrins and their derivatives are frequently used as ORR catalysts and show good performances. [18] In this work, after calcining in inert atmosphere, the blood sample containing heme would be transferred into bio-carbon with Fe and N originating from ferriporphyrin self-doping inside. The blood was divided into two parts, one part was directly calcined at 800 °C to obtain simple carbonized blood (CB) as a control sample for comparison, and the other was firstly pre-carbonized at 500 °C, and then mixed with KOH before further calcining to 800 °C to obtain activated carbonized blood (a-CB). The activation process created numerous micro- and meso-pores in the carbon material, leading to extremely high specific surface area of a-CB. After that, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles were formed on the porous a-CB using CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O as precursor by hydrothermal method to obtain Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB composite. The loading amount of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> on a-CB was changed by changing the amount of CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O. The as-obtained samples were termed as Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.05. Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.2 Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.1. and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.3. respectively, corresponding to 0.05, 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3 mmol precursor CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O added to the hydrothermal solution. It was demonstrated that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.1 showed the best electrocatalytic performance for ORR, which was comparable to

**Scheme 1.** Schematic diagram of the synthetic process of Co3O4/a-CB composite.

that of Pt/C with better durability and methanol tolerance than commercial catalyst. Hence, all morphology and composition characterizations are based on Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 in this work. Unless otherwise stated, all Co3O4/a-CB refers to Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 in this manuscript. This work provides an example of using cheap and waste materials to achieve high-performance electrocatalysts, which may have potential to develop into industrial production level.

#### **Results and Discussion**

The field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) image of the original duck blood is shown in Figure S1a. After directly carbonizing without activation, the surface morphology of the as-obtained CB sample turned smooth (Figure S1b). However, for a-CB which was activated by KOH, the morphology turned rough as shown in Figure S1c, indicating that numerous pores were created during the activation process. The number of active sites was believed to be increased as well. Following reactions are assumed to occur in the process.[19]

$$6$$
KOH + 2C → 2K +  $3$ H<sub>2</sub> + 2K<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub>  
 $K_2$ CO<sub>3</sub> →  $K_2$ O + CO<sub>2</sub>  
 $C$ O<sub>2</sub> + C → 2CO  
 $K_2$ CO<sub>3</sub> + 2C → 2K + 3CO  
 $K_2$ O + C → 2K + CO

After introducing Co3O4, the morphology of the as-obtained composite is shown in Figure S1d. Figure 1a shows the FESEM image together with the energy-dispersive spectrometry (EDS) mapping results of C, N, O, Co and Fe, respectively, indicating uniform distribution of the above elements. According to the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) result, the amount of Fe in a-CB is 0.17 wt%. The amounts of Fe and Co in Co3O4/a-CB are 0.13 wt% and 12.54 wt%, respectively. This indicates that the hydrothermal process would not cause Fe leaching out of the substrate. Considering that Fe atoms are doped and embedded in the carbon substrate and the amount is far less than the surface loaded Co3O4. The catalytic active sites are beleived to be mainly contributed by Co3O4. The highresolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) images of Co3O4/a-CB can provide further detailed structural information. As shown in Figure 1b, the particle size of material was approximately 100 nm, with Co3O<sup>4</sup> supporting on carbon substrate. The lattice image shown in Figure 1c matches well with the (111) interplanar spacing of Co3O4. Besides Co3O<sup>4</sup>

**Figure 1.** (a) FESEM image Co3O4/a-CB composite with the elemental maps of C, N, O, Co, and Fe. (b,c) HRTEM and lattice images of Co3O4/a-CB.

grains, the uncrystallized substrate area is amorphous biocarbon.

According to Figure 2a, the X-ray diffractometer (XRD) pattern of CB shows two broad bumps at around 24.0° and 44.0º, which correspond to (002) and (101) graphitic planes, respectively. This further demonstrates that the carbonized biomass was amorphous and partially graphitized carbon.[20] The a-CB sample also shows a diffraction bump at 24.0°, but the peak at 44.0° can be hardly seen. This probably because some of the graphite phase was destroyed when activating by KOH. For the XRD pattern of Co3O4/a-CB, the diffraction peaks at 31.2°, 36.8°, 38.5°, 44.8°, 59.4° and 65.2° correspond well with (220), (311), (222), (400), (511) and (440) planes of Co3O4, respectively. Raman spectra are presented in Figure 2b. All samples show two remarkable peaks centered at 1591 cm-1 and 1366 cm-1 , which correspond to G band and D band, respectively. To be more specific, the D band comes from the defects and disordered regions; while G band is induced by graphitic featured carbon. The intensity ratio of these two bands (ID/IG) is usually used to evaluate the level of disordering in carbon-based materials.[21] The ID/I<sup>G</sup> ratio is 2.49, 3.21 and 2.78 for CB, a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB, respectively. Compared to CB, the ID/I<sup>G</sup> ratio is higher for a-CB. This may be because the graphite phase carbon was partly destroyed in the activation process. However, when compositing with Co3O4, the hydrothermal process may induce further ordering of carbon, making the ID/I<sup>G</sup> ratio decrease back. These results are well consistent with XRD results. The extra peak at 690 cm-1 was due to the presence of Co3O4.

N<sup>2</sup> adsorption/desorption isotherm was performed to evaluate the porous architecture and the specific surface area of the samples. As shown in Figure 2c, the isotherms of a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB exhibit combined type I and IV features on the basis

**Figure 2.** (a,b) XRD patterns and Raman spectra of CB, a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB. (c,d) N<sup>2</sup> adsorption/desorption isotherms and pore size distribution curves of CB, a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB.

of the IUPAC, which is due to the coexistence of micropores and mesopores.[23] The steep adsorption volume of relative pressure below 0.01 indicates a dominant contribution of the micropores to the surface area. At relative pressures bigger than 0.2, the adsorption curve indicates the existence of mesopores. The untypical H4-type hysteresis loop that occurs at a relative pressure range of 0.4-1.0 represents the slit pore feature. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) specific surface areas of a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB are estimated to be 2655 and 2109 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 , with total pore volume of 1.50 and 1.17 cm<sup>3</sup> g -1 , respectively. In contrast to a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB, the surface area of CB is very low (19 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ), which can be indicated by the small amount of nitrogen adsorption. These results clearly demonstrate that most of the pores in a-CB were created during the activation process, which greatly increased the specific surface area. The pore size distribution of CB, a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB are further calculated by Barrett Joyner-Halenda (BJH) and Horvath-Kawazoe (HK) methods, as exhibited in Figure 2d and Figure S2. It is obvious that numerous micropores along with mesopores co-existed in a-CB and Co3O4/a-CB samples. For CB, the pore size distribution concentrates on 2-10 nm, indicating the presence of mesopores. The extremely high specific surface area and micro/mesoporous structure of Co3O4/a-CB not only provide abundant active sites, but also guarantee the accessibility of reactants to the active sites, leading to high electrocatalytic performance.[24] Detailed data of the specific surface area, total pore volumes, and average pore diameter of these materials are listed in Table S1.

To further investigate the surface elemental composition and their binding behaviors, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out as well. The survey spectrum verifies the existence of C, O, N, Co, and Fe for Co3O4/a-CB (Figure 3a), and the atomic percentages of C, O, N, Co and Fe are estimated as 38.1%, 49.1%, 1.6%, 11.0%, 0.2%, respectively. Figure 3b exhibits the high-resolution N 1s spectrum fitted into five peaks at 398.5, 399.1, 400.4, 401.3 and 402.5 eV, which correspond with pyridinic N (21.9%), N-Fe (13.4%), pyrrolic N (28.0%), quaternary N (32.9%) and oxidized N (3.8%), respectively.[25] The high-resolution XPS spectrum of C 1s (Figure 3c) can be divided into four peaks at 284.6, 285.3, 286.5 and 288.2 eV,

**Figure 3.** (a) XPS survey spectra of Co3O4/a-CB, (b-f) High-resolution XPS spectra of N 1s, C 1s, O 1s, Co 2p and Fe 2p for Co3O4/a-CB, respectively.

which are assigned to C-C (36.8%), C-O (28.1%), C=O (7.2%) and C-N (27.9%), respectively.[26] As shown in Figure 3d, the O 1s spectrum is also deconvoluted to analyze the bonding state of O on the surface. The peak at 531.0 eV should be attributed to Co-O, which mainly comes from Co3O4, and its content is the highest. The other two peaks at 530.3 and 532.5 eV are corresponding to the adsorbed water and hydroxyl oxygen, respectively.[27] The Co 2p spectrum is shown in Figure 3e, which can be fitted into Co 2p3/2 (780.9 eV) and Co 2p1/2 (796.4 eV) sub-spectra, together with a satellite peak at 785.8 eV.[28] This agrees well with the Co signal in Co3O<sup>4</sup> phase.[29] In Figure 3f, the Fe 2p spectrum shows peaks at 710.2 and 713.8 eV, corresponding to Fe3+ and Fe2+ in the Fe 2p3/2 track. For the Fe 2p1/2 region, the peak at 716.4 and 720.5 eV can be attributed to Fe2+and Fe3+, respectively.[30]

To investigate the ORR performance, cyclic voltammograms (CV) in N<sup>2</sup> or O<sup>2</sup> saturated KOH solution were measured. Compared with the presence of N2, when O<sup>2</sup> dissolved in the solution, additional cathodic ORR peaks appeared for all samples (Figure 4a). For CB, the reduction peak is not obvious indicating poor ORR activity. However, compared to CB, the a-CB material shows a more obvious peak because of the increased specific surface area and active sites after activation. For Co3O4/a-CB, a distinct reduction peak around 0.79 V can be observed, which is similar to that of commercial Pt/C (20 wt%). This indicates that introducing Co3O<sup>4</sup> has significantly increased the catalytic activity for ORR. Figure 4b shows the CV curves of Co3O4/a-CB samples with different loadings of Co3O4. All samples exhibited ORR peaks; however, the signal does not show proportional increase with the increase loading of Co3O4. With the increase of the content of Co3O4, the catalytic activity increases first and then decays. This may be because there

**Figure 4.** (a,b) CV curves of CB, a-CB, Co3O4/a-CB-0.05, Co3O4/a-CB-0.1, Co3O4/a-CB-0.2, Co3O4/a-CB-0.3 and Pt/C in oxygen (solid line) or nitrogen (dotted line) saturated 0.1 mol L-1 KOH solution with a scan rate of 50 mV s-1 . (c) LSV curves of all samples in oxygen saturated 0.1 mol L-1 KOH solution at a scan rate of 10 mV s-1 at 1600 rpm. (d) Tafel plots of all samples. (e) LSV curves of Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 at different rotation speeds. (f) K-L plots at different potentials for Co3O4/a-CB-0.1.

**Table 1.** Detailed data of electrocatalytic properties for all samples.

| Samples         | Catalyst<br>loading<br>[mg cm-2<br>] | [a]<br>Eonset<br>[V] | E1/2<br>[V] | [b]<br>JL<br>[mA cm-2<br>] |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------|----------------------------|
| CB              | 0.25                                 | 0.85                 | 0.52        | 2.36                       |
| a-CB            | 0.25                                 | 0.88                 | 0.68        | 4.88                       |
| Co3O4/a-CB-0.05 | 0.25                                 | 0.93                 | 0.75        | 5.25                       |
| Co3O4/a-CB-0.1  | 0.25                                 | 0.95                 | 0.77        | 5.50                       |
| Co3O4/a-CB-0.2  | 0.25                                 | 0.90                 | 0.76        | 4.86                       |
| Co3O4/a-CB-0.3  | 0.25                                 | 0.86                 | 0.72        | 3.93                       |
| Pt/C            | 0.10                                 | 0.95                 | 0.81        | 5.12                       |
|                 |                                      |                      |             |                            |

[a] Onset potential was acquired at an ORR current density of 0.1 mA cm-2

[b] Limiting current density (JL) was obtained at 0.2 V vs. RHE.

were not enough active sites on the substrates when Co3O<sup>4</sup> content was small; however, excessive Co3O<sup>4</sup> may block the micropores of carbon substrate, and at the same time, reduce the conductivity of the whole material, causing the attenuation of the ORR catalytic activity.

In order to further investigate the ORR kinetics, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements for all samples were conducted and analyzed as well (Figure 4c). Detailed data are listed in Table 1. It can be noticed that, the onset and half-wave potentials of a-CB are 30 mV and 160 mV positive than those of CB, respectively, with obvious increase of limiting current density. This is apparently due to the increased porosity and specific surface area after activation. After compositing with Co3O4, the performance was further improved. Among all composite samples, Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 shows the best ORR catalytic performance with an onset potential of 0.95 V vs. RHE, a half-wave potential of 0.77 V vs. RHE, and a limiting current density of 5.50 mA cm-2. These values are close to those of Pt/C (0.95 V, 0.81 V, and 5.12 mA cm-2 , respectively). In addition, the excellent ORR performance of Co3O4/a-CB can also be illustrated by the Tafel slope. In general, the smaller the Tafel slope value, the better the kinetics of the catalyst in the low overpotential range.[31] Tafel plots can be obtained from the polarization curves and presented in Figure 4d. The Tafel slope of Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 is 62.0 mV dec-1 , which is lower than that of Pt/C (84.4 mV dec-1 ), indicating more favorable ORR kinetics. The as-prepared Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 shows promising ORR performance in comparison with other Co3O4-based catalysts reported in literature (Table S2). We believe that the extremely big specific surface area plays a pivotal role on the good electrocatalytic performance for ORR.

What's more, LSV curves at different rotation speeds for Co3O4/a-CB-0.1 is shown in Figure 4e. As the rotation speed increases, the limiting current also increases, indicating that diffusion is a key factor affecting the ORR kinetics of Co3O4/a-CB in the larger overpotential region. The electron transfer number (n) can be estimated according to the slope of Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots.[32] As shown in Figure 4f, the current densities at 0.3, 0.4, 0.5 and 0.6 V were selected and fitted by the K-L equation. The fitted curve shows a first-order linear relationship between J-1 and ω-1/2, which indicates that the electron transfer number is similar at different potentials. According to the slope of the fitted K-L, the electron transfer number is between 3.8 and 4.0, which is close to the ideal fourelectron transfer pathway.

At last, to thoroughly examine the prospect of applying Co3O4/a-CB into real industry, long-term durability and methanol tolerance were characterized by chronoamperometry at 0.6 V vs. RHE. As shown in Figure 5a, Co3O4/a-CB exhibits better durability with only ~14.6% current reduction after continuous operation for 25000 s. In contrast, the current retention after 25000 s for Pt/C is only 57.1%. This verifies that the as-obtained Co3O4/a-CB has higher stability than Pt/C. In addition, when methanol was injected into the electrolyte at 600 s, the curve of Co3O4/a-CB remains substantially unchanged with a current retention of 88.0% after 2000s (Figure 5b). In contrast, for Pt/C, the current decreased sharply with a retention of 46.1% after 2000 s. This proves that the as-obtained Co3O4/a-CB has better methanol tolerance than Pt/C catalyst.

**Figure 5.** (a) Current retention curves of Co3O4/ a-CB and Pt/C recorded at 0.6 V vs. RHE in oxygen saturated 0.1 mol L-1 KOH solution at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm. (b) Current retention curves with the injection of methanol.

#### **Conclusions**

In summary, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB composite was fabricated by using cheap biomass waste material as resource. The a-CB substrate deriving from activated carbonized duck blood shows Fe, N selfdoping feature and extremely high specific surface area. After loading with Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, the as-obtained composite shows good electrocatalytic performance for ORR. The half-wave potential for Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB was only 40 mV negative to that of commercial Pt/C. The onset potential and limiting current density were comparable to that of commercial Pt/C. More importantly, the durability and methanol tolerance were better than those of Pt/C. The good performance may derive from the synergistic effect of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Fe, N-doped carbon substrate. On one hand, active Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is intensely loaded on bio-carbon, which greatly improved the electronic conductivity. On the other hand, the Fe, N doped bio-carbon with high specific surface area and high porosity ensures the loading amount of active sites and the efficiency of mass transport. This work provides a new and cost-effective way of using biomass waste to fabricate efficient electrocatalyst for ORR, which may have potential to develop into industrial production level.

#### **Experimental Section**

#### Preparation of a-CB

The duck blood used in this study was directly bought from Auchan supermarket in the form of concretionary blood. Firstly, the concretionary blood was freeze-dried for 24 h to remove water inside. Then, the sample was ball milled for 1 h in a planetary ball mill to obtain duck blood powder. After that, the powder was heat treated at 500 °C in  $N_2$  atmosphere for 2 h as a pre-carbonization process. The pre-carbonized sample was then mixed with KOH in a mass ratio of 1:4, followed by dispersing in 10 mL of deionized water (0.13 g mL $^{-1}$ ). After stirring for 6 hours, the sample was filtered, dried, and further heated up to 800 °C in  $N_2$  atmosphere and kept for 2 h. Finally, the calcined sample was immersed in 2 mol L $^{-1}$  HCl solution at 60 °C for 12 hours and rinsed in water to neutrality. The final a-CB was then dried and collected for further characterization. What's more, duck blood powder was also directly calcined at 800 °C and immersed in HCl followed by water rinsing and drying to obtain simple CB as a control sample for comparison.

#### Synthesis of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB composite

Firstly, x mmol CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (x=0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3) and 1 mL 30% H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> were dissolved into 35 mL deionized water, the pH of which was adjusted to 9.0 by ammonia. Then, 20 mg a-CB was added to the above solution and stirred for 1 h, after which the solution was poured into a 50 mL capacity Teflon-lined autoclave and held at 180 °C for 12 h. After the hydrothermal process was completed, the product was washed three times with deionized water and absolute ethanol, respectively. Finally, the product was vacuum dried at 60 °C for 12 h to obtain Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles supported on Fe, N doped carbon (Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB). It is worth noting that, by changing the amount of  $\text{CoCl}_2\text{-}6\text{H}_2\text{O}$  added to the precursor solution, the loading of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> on a-CB is believed to be changed. The as-obtained samples were termed as Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.05. Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.1, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.2 and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.3, respectively, corresponding to 0.05, 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3 mmol precursor CoCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O added to the autoclave. In addition, as further experiment has proved that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.1 shows the best electrocatalytic performance, all morphology and composition characterizations are based on Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.1 in this work. Unless otherwise stated, all Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB refers to Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/a-CB-0.1 in this manuscript.

#### Materials characterization

The morphology was examined by FESEM (NOVA NanoSEM 230) and HRTEM (JEOL JEM-2100F). The composition was investigated by XRD (D8 ADVANCE), Raman (Renishaw 2000) and XPS (AXIS UltraDLD). The surface area and pore volume were evaluated by nitrogen adsorption/desorption (Micromeritics ASAP 2010) through BET and BJH&HK method, respectively. The amounts of Fe and Co in samples were detected by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS).

#### Electrochemical measurement

All electrochemical tests were conducted on an Autolab electrochemical workstation (PGSTAT302N). A typical three-electrode system was used with modified glassy carbon rotating disk electrode (GCRDE, 5 mm diameter) as working electrode. Ag/AgCl electrode and Pt sheet were employed as reference and counter electrode, respectively. To prepare working electrode, electrocatalyst powders were dispersed in 0.2 wt% Nafion solution (water/ethanol, 3:1 vol ratio) and sonicated to form homogeneous ink (5 mg mL  $^{-1}$ ). After that, a 10  $\mu$ L drop was casted on GCRDE. The loading amount was calculated to be 0.25 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. What's more, commercial Pt/C powder (20 wt%) was also casted on GCRDE under the same procedures with a loading amount of 0.1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> for comparison. 0.1 mol L-1 KOH solution bubbled by N2 or O2 was used as electrolyte. CV tests were carried out at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. LSV curves were recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> with the rotation speed of GCRDE changed from 400 rpm to 2025 rpm. Long-term durability and methanol tolerance were characterized by chronoamperometry at a potential of 0.6 V vs. RHE with a rotation speed of 1600 rpm.

Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots ( $J^{-1}$  versus  $\omega^{-1/2}$ ) were drawn based on the LSV curves under different rotation speeds. The electron transfer number (n) was calculated according to the Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equation:

$$1/J=1/J_L + 1/J_K = 1/(B\omega^{1/2}) + 1/J_K$$
  
B=0.2nFC<sub>0</sub>(D<sub>0</sub>)<sup>2/3</sup>v<sup>-1/6</sup>

where J is the recorded current density;  $J_K$  and  $J_L$  are kinetic and diffusion limiting current density, respectively;  $\omega$  is the angular velocity of electrode rotation rate; n is the electron transfer number; F is the Faraday constant (96485 C mol^-¹);  $C_0$  is  $C_0$  concentration (1.2×10<sup>-6</sup> mol cm<sup>-3</sup>);  $C_0$  is the diffusion coefficient of  $C_0$  in 0.1M KOH (1.9×10<sup>-5</sup> cm² s<sup>-1</sup>); and  $C_0$  is the kinematic viscosity of electrolyte (0.01 cm² s<sup>-1</sup>). The slope of K-L plot (1/B) is used to calculate the electron transfer number by n=B/(0.2nFC $_0$ ( $C_0$ ) $^{2/3}$   $V_0$ -1/6).

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (51902140), Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20170578, BK20181469) and Research and Practice Innovation Plan of Postgraduate Training Innovation Project in Jiangsu Province (KYCX20 3150).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** biomass •  $Co_3O_4$  • doping • nanostructures • oxygen reduction reaction

[1] a) X. H. Liu, W. L. Hu, W. J. Jiang, Y. W. Yang, S. Niu, B. Sun, J. Wu, J. S. Hu, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 28473-28477; b) X. M. Guo, C. Qian, R. H. Shi, W. Zhang, F. Xu, S. L. Qian, J. H. Zhang, H. X. Yang, A. H. Yuan, T. X. Fan, Small 2019, 15, 1804855; c) X. M. Guo, C. Qian, X. H. Wan, W. Zhang, H. W. Zhu, J. H. Zhang, H. X. Yang, S. L.

- Lin, Q. H. Kong, *Nanoscale* **2020**, 12, 4374-4382; d) Q. Zhao, Q. L. Zhang, C. Du, S. S. Sun, J. D. Steinkruger, C. Zhou, S. Y. Yang, *Nanomaterials* **2019**, 9, 499.
- [2] a) H. H. Wu, X. L. Jiang, Y. F. Ye, C. C. Yan, S. H. Xie, S. Miao, G. X. Wan, X. H. Bao, *J. Energy Chem.* **2017**, 26, 1181-1186; b) W. Shi, Y. C. Wang, C. Chen, X. D. Yang, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, *Chin. J Catal.* **2016**, 37, 1103-1108; c) W. Hua, Y. S. Mao, J. Z. Zhang, L. Liu, G. L. Zhang, S. Y. Yang, D. Boyer, C. Zhou, F. F. Zheng, S. S. Sun, S. L. Lin, Front. Chem. **2020**, 8, 364.
- [3] a) X. M. Ge, A. Sumboja, D. Wuu, T. An, B. Li, F. W. Thomas Goh, T. S. Andy Hor, Y. Zong, Z. L. Liu, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, 5, 4643-4667; b) H. Osgooda, S. V. Devaguptapu, H. Xu, J. Cho, G. Wu, *Nano Today* **2016**, 11, 601-625.
- [4] a) Y. Cheng, S. Dou, J. P. Veder, S. Wang, M. Saunders, S. P. Jiang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, 9, 8121-8133; b) C. Guan, A. Sumboja, H. J. Wu, W. N. Ren, X. M. Liu, H. Zhang, Z. L. Liu, C. W. Cheng, S. J. Pennycook, J. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, 29, 1704117; c) X. Wang, Y. Li, T. Jin, J. Meng, L. Jiao, M. Zhu, J. Chen, *Nano Lett.* **2107**, 17, 7989-7994; d) C. Dong, T. Kou, H. Gao, Z. Peng, Z. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, 8, 1701347; e) G. Cheng, T. Kou, J. Zhang, C. Si, H. Gao, Z. Zhang, *Nano Energy* **2017**, 38, 155-166.
- [5] a) C. Wu, Y. Zhang, D. Dong, H. Xie, J. Li, *Nanoscale* **2017**, 9, 12432- 12440; b) J. Balamurugan, S. G. Peera, M. Guo, T. T. Nguyen, N. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2107**, 5, 17896-17908; c) Y. Liu, X. Xie, G. Zhu, Y. Mao, S. Ju, X. Shen, H. Pang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, 7, 15851-15861; d) S. Ju, Y. Liu, H. Chen, F. Tan, A. Yuan, X. Li, G. Zhu, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, 2, 4439-4449.
- [6] H. Huang, C. Du, S. Wu, W. Song, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, 120, 15707- 15713.
- [7] K. J. Lee, D. Y. Shin, A. Byeon, A. Lim, Y. S, Jo, A, Begley, D. H. Lim, Y. E. Sung, H. S. Park, K. H. Chae, S. W. Nam, K. Y. Lee, J. Y. Kim, *Nanoscale* **2017**, 9,15846-15855.
- [8] H. Wang, W. Wang, Y. Y. Xu, M. Asif, H. Liu, B. Y. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, 5, 17563-17569.
- [9] A. Ishihara, M. Tamura, Y. Ohgi, M. Matsumoto, K. Matsuzawa, S. Mitsushima, H. Imai, K. Ota, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2013**, 117, 18837-18844.
- [10] J. Luo, L. Y. Wang, D. Mott, P. N. Njoki, Y. Lin, T. He, Z. C. Xu, B. N. Wanjana, IImS. Lim, C. J. Zhong, *Adv. Mater.* **2008**, 20, 4342-4347.
- [11] C. Qian, X. M. Guo, W. Zhang, H. X. Yang, Y. Qian, F. Xu, S. L. Qian, S. L. Lin, T. X. Fan, *Microporous Mesoporous Mater* **2019**, 277, 45-51.
- [12] F. Cheng, Y. Su, J. Liang, Z. Tao, J. Chen, *Chem. Mater.* **2010**, 22, 898-905.
- [13] a) B. Wu, Y. Xie, Y. Q. Meng, C. Qian, Y. Y. Chen, A. H. Yuan, X. M. Guo, H. X. Yang, S. Wan, S. L. Lin, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, 7, 6149- 6160; b) D. Q. Su, Z. H. Tang, J. F. Xie, Z. X. Bian, J. H. Zhang, D. D. Yang, D. Zhang, J. C. Wang, Y. Liu, A. H. Yuan, Q. H, Kong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, 469, 487-494; c) X. M. Guo, W. Zhang, C. Qian, H. X. Yang, T. X. Fan, *Ceram. Int.* **2018**, 44, 9696-9702; d) J. X. Shao, J. H. Feng, H. Zhou, A. H, Yuan, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, 471, 745-752; e) X. Y. Li, Y. L. Xu, H. Wu, X. Qian, L. Z. Chen, Y. Y. Dan, Q, Yu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, 337, 135818.
- [14] a) D. Zhang, X. M. Guo, X. Z. Tong, Y. F. Chen, M. T. Duan, J. Shi, C. W. Jiang, L. L. Hu, Q. H. Kong, J. H. Zhang, *J. Alloy. Compd.* **2020**, 837, 155529; b) D. Q. Su, M. Huang, J. H. Zhang, X. M. Guo, J. L. Chen, Y. C. Xue, A. H. Yuan, Q. H. Kong, *Nano Res.* **2020**, DOI: 10.1007/s12274-020-2938-y; c) Y. C. Xue, T. T. Yu, J. L. Chen, X. H. Wan, X. W. Cai, X. M. Guo, F. Zhang, W. W. Xiong, Y. J. Liu, Q. H. Kong, A. H. Yuan, J. H. Zhang, *J. Solid State Chem.* **2020**, 286, 121303; d) W. Z. Tian, B. J. Xi, Y. Gu, Q. Fu, Z. Y. Feng, J. K. Feng, S. L. Xiong, *Nano Res.* **2020**, doi: 10.1007/s12274-020-2909-3; e) M. Han, M. Shi, J. Wang, M. Zhang, C. Yan, J. Jiang, S. Guo, Z. Sun, Z. Guo, *Carbon* **2019**, 153, 575-584; f) P. Yan, H. Ye, Y. Han, J. Wang, F. Zheng, W. Xiong, H. Yang, J. Zhang, A. Yuan, X. Wu, *ChemistryOpen* **2020**, 9, 582-587.
- [15] a) Y. J. Sa, D. J. Seo, J. Woo, J. T. Lim, J. Y. Cheon, S. Y. Yang, J. M. Lee, D. Kang, T. J. Shin, H. S. Shin, H. Y. Jeong, C. S. Kim, M. G. Kim, T. Y. Kim, S. H. Joo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2106**, 138, 15046-15056; b) Q. X. Li, C. Shi, M. L. Huang, X. Wei, H. Yan, C. L. Yang, A. H. Yuan, *Chem. Sci.* **2019**, 10, 3257-3263; c) J. H. Zhang, M. Huang, B. J. Xi, K.

- Mi, A. H. Yuan, S. L. Xiong, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, 8, 1701330; d) G. Yi, H. -H. Cui, C. Zhang, W. Zhao, L. Chen, Y. -Q. Zhang, X. -T. Chen, Y. Song, A. Yuan, *Dalton Trans.* **2020**, 49, 2063-2067.
- [16] a) H. Tang, Y. Zeng, Y. X. Zeng, R. Wang, S. C. Cai, C. Liao, H. P. Cai, X. H. Lu, P. Tsiakaras, *Appl. Catal.* **2017**, 202, 550-556; b) N. Levy, A. Mahammed, A. Friedman, B. Gavriel, Z. Gross, L. Elbaz, *ChemCatChem* **2016**, 8, 2832-2837; c) Z. Liang, X. Fan, H. Lei, J. Qi, Y. Li, J. Gao, M. Huo, H. Yuan, W. Zhang, H. Lin, H. Zheng, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, 57, 13187-13191; d) L. Xie, X. Li, B. Wang, J. Meng, H. Lei, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, 58, 18883-18887; e) J. Meng, H. Lei, X. Li, J. Qi, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, 9, 4551-4560; f) G. Xu, H. Lei, G. Zhou, C. Zhang, L. Xie, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, 55, 12647-12650.
- [17] W. J. Jiang, W. L. Hu, Q. H. Zhang, T. T. Zhao, H. Luo, X. Zhang, L. Gu, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, *ChemComm* **2018**, 54, 1307-1310.
- [18] a) W. Zhang, W. Lai, R. Cao, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, 117, 3717-3797; b) H. Lei, X. Li, J. Meng, H. Zheng, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, 9, 4320-4344; c) J. Meng, H. Lei, X. Li, J. Qi, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, 9, 4551-4560; d) L. Xie, X. Li, B. Wang, J. Meng, H. Lei, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, 58, 18883-18887.
- [19] a) J. Romanos, M. Beckner, T. Rash, L. Firlej, B. Kuchta, P. Yu, G. Suppes, C. Wexler, P. Pfeifer, *Nanotechnology* **2011**, 23, 015401; b) D. Zhang, Y. C. Xue, J. L. Chen, X. M. Guo, D. D. Yang, J. C. Wang, J. H. Zhang, F. Zhang, A. H. Yuan, *J. Nanosci. Nanotechno.* 2020, 20, 2728- 2735; F. Zhang, T. Y. Liu, J. H. Zhang, E. T. Cui, L. Yue, R. Y. Jiang, G. H. Hou, *Carbon* **2019**, 147, 451-459.
- [20] a) H. Yang, H. Wang, S. Ji, Y. Ma, V. Linkov, R. Wang, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2014**, 18, 1503-1512; b) M. Huang, K. Mi, J. H. Zhang, H. L. Liu, T. T. Yu, A. H. Yuan, Q. H. Kong, S. L. Xiong, *J. Mater. Chem. A*  **2017**, 5, 266-274; c) J. H. Zhang, Q. H. Kong, D. Y. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, 6, 6376-6386; d) J. F. Xie, M. Y. Gao, M. R. Wu, X. M. Guo, W. W. Xiong, Q. H. Kong, F. Zhang, J. H. Zhang, *Chem. Lett.* **2020**, 49, 677-680.
- [21] a) E. Bayram, G. Yilmaz, S. Mukerjee, Appl. Catal. B **2016**, 192, 26-34; b) J. H. Zhang, Q. H. Kong, L. W. Yang, D. Y. Wang, *Green Chem.* **2016**, 18, 3066-3074.
- [22] C. W. Tang, C. B. Wang, S. H. Chen, *Thermochim Acta* **2008**, 473, 68- 73.
- [23] J. Liu, X. Wang, Q. Lu, R. Yu, M. Chen, S. Cai, X. Wang, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2016**, 163, A2991-A2998.
- [24] a) S. Fu, C. Zhu, D. Su, J. Song, S. Yao, S. Feng, M. H. Engelhard, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Small* **2018**, 14, 1703118; b) S. Gao, X. Li, L. Li, X. Wei, *Nano Energy* **2017**, 33, 334-342.
- [25] a) S. Gao, K. Geng, *Nano Energy* **2014**, 6, 44-50; b) S. Chen, J. Bi, Y. Zhao, L. Yang, C. Zhang, Y. Ma, Q. Wu, X. Wang, Z. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2012**, 24, 5593-5597.
- [26] a) S. A. Wohlgemuth, R. J. White, M. G. Willinger, M. M. Titirici, M. Antonietti, *Green Chem* **2012**, 14, 1515; b) X. M. Guo, H. L. Liu, Y. C. Xue, J. L. Chen, X. H. Wan, J. H. Zhang, Y. J. Liu, A. H. Yuan, Q. H. Kong, H. Fan, *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* **2019**, 2019, 3719-3723.
- [27] Z. Zhao, H. Wu, H. He, X. Xu, Y. Jin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2014,** 24, 4698-4705.
- [28] B. He, J. Wang, Y. Fan, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhai, Y. Wang, Q. Huang, F. Dang, Z. Zhang, N. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, 6, 19075.
- [29] V. M. Jiménez, A. Fernández, J. P. Espinós, A. R. González-Elipe, *J. Electron Spectrosc* **1995**, 71, 61-71.
- [30] L. Lin, Q. Zhu, A. W. Xu, *Chem. Soc.* **2014**, 136, 11027-11033.
- [31] Y. Zhao, K. Kamiya, K. Hashimoto, S. Nakanishi, *J. Phys. Chem. C*  **2015,** 119, 2583-2588.
- [32] J. Wang, L. Li, X. Chen, Y. Lu, W. Yang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, 4, 11342-11350.

### **Entry for the Table of Contents**

#### **Key Topic: Electrocatalyst**

Co3O4/a-CB composite with high specific surface area is fabricated via activation and hydrothermal method using duck blood as Fe, N self-doped carbon skeleton source. Efficient electrocatalytic performance for ORR with good stability and methanol tolerance is achieved.