---
source: Zhang 等 - 2021 - The Role of Sulfur Doping in Determining the Performance of FeN-C Based Electrocatalysts for Oxygen.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 59.052s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:00:26.456194Z
---

#### **OPEN ACCESS**

## The Role of Sulfur Doping in Determining the Performance of Fe/N-C Based Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reactions

To cite this article: Linlin Zhang et al 2021 J. Electrochem. Soc. 168 054523

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/ac0065) for updates and enhancements.

### You may also like

- [Molecular dynamics study on axial](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/abaf18) [mechanical properties of calcium silicate](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/abaf18) [hydrate](/article/10.1088/2053-1591/abaf18) -
- Jianzhang Huang, Yue Fan, Xiaowei Ouyang et al.
- [Enhancement of Electrocatalytic Oxygen](/article/10.1149/MA2016-01/35/1756) [Reduction Reaction on Pd](/article/10.1149/MA2016-01/35/1756)<sup>3</sup> [pb Ordered](/article/10.1149/MA2016-01/35/1756) [Intermetallic Catalyst in Alkaline Aqueous](/article/10.1149/MA2016-01/35/1756) [Solutions](/article/10.1149/MA2016-01/35/1756) -
- Futoshi Matsumoto, Arockiam John Jeevagan, Takao Gunji et al.
- [High-Performance Heteroatoms \(B, S\)](/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ac2c17) [Single- and Dual-Doped Co/C Catalysts](/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ac2c17) [for Oxygen Reduction Reaction](/article/10.1149/1945-7111/ac2c17) Hui-Juan Zhang, Yujing Zhang, Chunlei Cai et al. -

# The Role of Sulfur Doping in Determining the Performance of Fe/N-C Based Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reactions

Linlin Zhang, Yongjie Hu, Kun Jiang, Kai Li, Yun-Quan Liu, \* Duo Wang, and Yueyuan Ye

Fujian Engineering and Research Center of Clean and Highly-Valued Technologies for Biomass, College of Energy, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361102, People's Republic of China

The effect of S-doping on the performance of Fe/N-C catalysts for ORR was studied. It was found that the abundant C–S–C bonds in the sulfur-doped catalysts enhanced the ORR activity greatly, while the existence of excessive C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C bonds was adverse to the kinetics of ORR. Also, the existence of Fe was able to increase the contents of both C–S–C bond and graphite N during the pyrolysis stage of preparation, thus generating more ORR active sites. The resulted effective configurations of S (C–S–C) and active N (both graphitic N and pyridinic N), and the combination of rich hierarchical porous structure with the encased Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles were responsible for the excellent performance of catalysts. Specifically, the  $E_{1/2}$  of the prepared FeNSC-10S catalyst reached 0.91 V in a 0.1 M KOH electrolyte solution, which was 20 mV positive shift to the  $E_{1/2}$  of the 20 wt.% Pt/C commercial catalyst. The electron transfer number was determined to be 3.85–3.91 over the potential range of 0.4–0.8 V, indicating that the ORR catalytic process proceeded in a reaction pathway with nearly 4e<sup>-</sup> transfer. The developed catalyst also demonstrated a long-term stability as well as a superior methanol tolerance in alkaline conditions.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published on behalf of The Electrochemical Society by IOP Publishing Limited. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No Derivatives 4.0 License (CC BY-NC-ND, http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/), which permits non-commercial reuse, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is not changed in any way and is properly cited. For permission for commercial reuse, please email: permissions@ioppublishing.org. [DOI: 10.1149/1945-7111/ac0065]

Manuscript submitted February 25, 2021; revised manuscript received April 21, 2021. Published May 24, 2021.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Fuel cells, with their high overall thermal efficiency and environmental friendliness, were widely considered as a promising energy conversion device. <sup>1,2</sup> However, the sluggish kinetics of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) occurred in the cathode of fuel cells, requires a large amount of catalyst to be loaded on the electrode to accelerate the reaction. At present, the platinum-based precious metal materials are the state-of-the-art of ORR catalysts as they have superior catalytic performance, however, their prohibitive cost, scarcity and unsatisfying durability, together with their poor methanol tolerance greatly hindered their large-scale applications.<sup>3,4</sup> Therefore, numerous research have been done on exploring the nonplatinum catalysts for ORR, in particular the transition metals and nitrogen-doped carbon materials.<sup>5</sup> The transition metal-nitrogencarbon (Fe/N-C) compounds have recently emerged as a kind of promising materials to replace the platinum-based catalysts because of their excellent catalytic activity, long term stability and methanol tolerance.<sup>6</sup> This is because the introduction of N atoms into metalcarbon system could break the electrical neutrality of carbon surface, resulting in an uneven distribution of the charge density and positively charged adjacent C atoms, thus promoting the adsorption of O2 and enhancing the reduction reaction.<sup>7</sup> It was also discovered that Fe and Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles were formed during the pyrolysis process when transition metal Fe existed. And the Fe<sub>3</sub>C formed demonstrated a significant promotion effect on ORR, which was confirmed in many previous studies.<sup>8–11</sup> To further improve the performance of ironbased catalysts, the doping of Fe/N-C with the heteroatoms (such as sulfur) had been proved to be an effective method, which was believed to have a great potential in boosting the ORR reactivity. 12 Thus, in this work, the influence of the configuration of S atoms in catalysts on ORR performance was studied.

Here, we explored the variations of S bonding configuration in the synthesized catalysts by pyrolyzing different amounts of thiourea. Sulfur atoms were successfully doped into the carbon matrix and formed a certain amount of C-S-C and C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C species. Compared to the non-sulfur-doped catalyst, the introduction of S atoms demonstrated the activity of catalysts was significantly improved. Note that when the amount of thiourea added to the precursor increases, the content of C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C formed also increases.

Viewing the fact that the presence of  $C\text{-SO}_X$ -C may have an adverse effect on the catalyst, the content of S atoms in the precursor was adjusted, so that more thiophene sulfur would be formed in the catalyst. With sufficient C-S-C, graphitic N, pyridinic N,  $Fe_3C$  particles and hierarchical pore structure, the catalysts would possess abundant active sites. Among all the catalysts prepared in this work, the FeNSC-10S exhibited the best ORR activity in alkaline conditions with the half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  of  $0.91\,V$ , which also possesses a superior long-term stability and excellent methanol tolerance. Thus, it has a great potential for future applications in fuel cells and is deserved to be reported. Of course, the major focus of this work is to study the effects of S-doping on the performance of Fe/N-C based electrocatalysts.

#### Experimental

*Materials.*—The Black Pearls 2000 (BP2000) was purchased from Cabot, while melamine, thiourea, hexahydrate ferric chloride (FeCl<sub>3</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O), potassium hydroxide (KOH), and anhydrous ethanol were bought from Macklin. The 20 wt.% Pt/C commercial catalyst and 5 wt.% Nafion solution were purchased from Alfa Aesar. All chemicals used in the experiments were in analytical grade and used as received.

Synthesis of FeNSC-10s catalyst.—To synthesize the proposed catalyst, BP2000 was first immersed in a 2 M HCl solution for 24 h to remove the metallic impurities. Then in a typical preparation, 1 g of melamine was dispersed in 30 ml of deionized water uniformly, and 0.66 g (10 wt.% S) thiourea and 1.0 g FeCl<sub>3</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O were dissolved in 10 ml of deionized water, respectively. The formed product was added dropwise to the aqueous suspension solution of melamine in an orderly manner, followed by adding 0.1 g of pretreated carbon black to the solution. The mixture was then stirred at the room temperature for 3 h to ensure an even dispersion. Finally, the solvent was dried in an oven at 60 °C so that a solid mixture was formed, which was ground thoroughly to become powder. The obtained powder was then annealed at 550 °C in N2 for 1 h, and was further treated for another 2 h at the temperature of 800 °C. After the acid-etching with 1 M HCl for 12 h at 80 °C, the powder was undergone the secondary calcination at 800 °C for 1 h. The resulted catalyst was denoted as FeNSC-10S. For comparison, the catalysts with different amounts of S doping, such as 0 wt.%, 5 wt.%, 15 wt.% were prepared in the same way as FeNSC-10S, and were named as FeNSC-0S, FeNSC-5S, FeNSC-15S, respectively. Moreover, in order to examine the role of  $Fe_3C$ , an iron-free catalyst named NSC was synthesized and tested as the reference.

Characterization.—Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) measurements were performed on a SUPRA55 SAPPHIER. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images were obtained on a Tecnai F30 TWIN TEM system at an acceleration voltage of 300 kV. X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra were recorded on a Rigaku Ultima IV diffractometer with Cu Kα radiation ( $s = 0.15405 \, \mathrm{nm}$ ) and the scanning rate was  $5° \, \mathrm{min}^{-1}$ . Raman spectra were characterized by a Renishaw Raman spectroscope (labram-010, 532 nm excitation wavelength). Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area and nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms were obtained from an ASPA 2020 automatic micropore and chemisorption analyzer. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) were obtained from a Thermo Fisher Scientific K-Alpha using a monochromatic Al-Ka line at 1486.8 eV.

*Electrochemical measurements.*—To perform the electrochemical measurements, a homogeneous catalyst ink has to be made. First, 500  $\mu$ l of deionized water, 450  $\mu$ l of ethanol, and 50  $\mu$ l of 5% Nafion solution were put in a 2 ml transparent glass bottle, then 6 mg catalyst powders were added into the above mixture. After that, the ultrasonic treatment was performed for 2 h. Prior to the surface coating, the working electrode (WE) was polished with a 3.0  $\mu$ m alumina slurry on an artificial polishing cloth, then rinsed and sonicated by the distilled water to get a mirror-smooth electrode surface. Take a specific volume of the catalyst ink, which was carefully dropped on a pretreated glassy carbon rotating disk electrode (RDE) or rotating ring disk electrode (RRDE), and then dried with an infrared lamp, thus a non-precious metal catalyst with loading of 306  $\mu$ g cm<sup>-2</sup> was prepared. For comparison, the loading of Pt on the WE were set at 10  $\mu$ g cm<sup>-2</sup>.

All the electrochemical tests were performed at the room temperature on a Metrohm Autolab Electrochemical Workstation with a standard three-electrode system. A rotating disk electrode (RDE of 5 mm in diameter) coated with catalyst ink was used as the working electrode to test the catalytic activity of ORR. A saturated calomel electrode (SCE) filled with saturated KCl aqueous solution and a platinum (1 cm  $\times$  1 cm) electrode were used as the reference electrode and the counter electrode, respectively. According to the Nernst equation ( $E_{RHE} = E_{SCE} + 0.241 + 0.0591 \times pH$ ), the measured potential vs SCE was converted into a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The cyclic voltammetry (CV) characterizations were carried out in  $O_2/N_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte solutions with a scanning rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) characterizations were performed in a

<span id="page-2-0"></span> $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH with a scanning rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and the varied rotating speeds of 400–2000 rpm. The electrochemical data were collected after WE was cycled for 7 times. The slopes of the linear regression of K-L plots were used to calculate the number of electrons transferred (n) from the Koutecky–Levich equations (Eqs. 1–3)<sup>13</sup>

$$\frac{1}{i} = \frac{1}{i_{\rm L}} + \frac{1}{i_{\rm K}} = \frac{1}{B\omega^{1/2}} + \frac{1}{i_{\rm K}}$$
 [1]

$$B = 0.62 nFC_0 D_0^{2/3} v^{-1/6}$$
 [2]

$$j_{K} = nFkC_{0}$$
 [3]

<span id="page-2-1"></span>Where, j is the measured current density,  $j_K$  and  $j_L$  the kinetic and diffusion-limiting current densities;  $\omega$  the angular velocity of the disk, and n the transferred electron number in the oxygen reduction, F the Faraday constant (F = 96485 C·mol<sup>-1</sup>),  $C_0$  the bulk concentration of  $O_2$  ( $C_0 = 1.2 \times 10^{-3} \text{ cm}^2 \cdot \text{l}^{-1}$ ),  $D_0$  the  $O_2$  diffusion coefficient ( $D_0 = 1.9 \times 10^{-5} \text{ cm}^2 \cdot \text{s}^{-1}$ ),  $\nu$  the kinematic viscosity of the electrolyte ( $\nu = 0.01 \text{ cm}^2 \cdot \text{s}^{-1}$ ), and k the electron transfer rate constant.

<span id="page-2-4"></span>Where as in the RRDE system, the Pt ring electrode was set at 1.2 V to assess the electron transfer number (n) and the hydrogen peroxide yield ( $\rm H_2O_{2\%}$ ) in the ORR process, of which n and  $\rm H_2O_{2\%}$  were calculated by the followed equations  $^{14}$ 

$$n = \frac{4i_d}{i_d + i_r/N}$$
 [4]

$$H_2O_2\% = \frac{200i_r/N}{i_d + i_r/N}$$
 [5]

<span id="page-2-3"></span>Where,  $i_d$  is the disk current,  $i_r$  the ring current in RRDE, and N (= 0.37) the ring current collection efficiency.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Schematic illustration of the synthetic process of FeNSC-10S.—The synthesis of FeNSC-10S catalyst is illustrated in Fig. 1. As seen, the high-nitrogen-content precursor (melamine) and the sulfur-containing precursor (thiourea) were first mixed with the iron salt and carbon support, and then underwent the first pyrolysis (550 °C for 1 h and 800 °C for 2 h) under  $N_2$  atmosphere. Next, the Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles that are not completely encapsulated by the carbon layer and impurities on the surface of the resulted catalyst was removed by acid etching (1 M HCl, 80 °C for 12 h), followed by a

<span id="page-2-2"></span>Figure 1. Schematic illustration of the synthetic process of FeNSC-10S.

secondary heat treatment at 800  $^{\circ}$ C for 1 h, so that the target catalyst (Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles with the stable structure) was obtained.

Physical characterizations: crystallography, morphology, surface area, surface chemical status.—The crystal structure of the materials was characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As seen in Fig. 2a, a set of diffraction peaks located at 37.8°, 39.8°, 43.2°, 44.7°, 45.9° and 49.1° etc. can be observed, which were attributed to the Fe<sub>3</sub>C phase [Joint Committee on Powder Diffraction Standards (JCPDS) number 35-0772], indicating the existence of magnetite Fe<sub>3</sub>C in the FeNSC-10S catalyst. It was also seen that Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles exists in FeNSC-0S, FeNSC-5S and FeNSC-15S. Additionally, the XRD spectrum of NSC showed two peaks at 23.8° and 43.6°, corresponding to C (002) and C (100), 15 respectively. Raman spectra for the prepared catalysts were also investigated to analyze the degree of structural defects present in the different samples, which is shown in Fig. 2b. As seen, two typical peaks were observed at ca. 1344 cm<sup>-1</sup> and 1587 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which can be correlated with the characteristic D-band and G-band, representing the disordered graphite carbon and crystallinity of sp<sup>2</sup>-hybridized carbon, 16 respectively. Compared to the catalyst without sulfur doping (FeNSC-0S), the FeNSC-5S, FeNSC-10S and FeNSC-15S showed higher D band peaks, and their intensity ratios of D to G band  $(I_D/I_G)$  were calculated as 0.96, 0.99, 1.01 and 1.00 for FeNSC-0S, FeNSC-5S, FeNSC-10S and FeNSC-15S, respectively, indicating the introduction of heteroatoms would cause abundant defects on the carbon surface, 17 which plays a crucial role in improving ORR performance because of the changes in the electronic and chemical properties of the carbon materials.<sup>3</sup> Moreover, the I<sub>D</sub>/I<sub>G</sub> value of NSC is slightly higher than that of FeNSC-10S, which may be attributed to the presence of the metallic iron in the FeNSC-10S. In short, FeNSC-10S possessed a satisfactory balance between the graphitization and the defects, which had a positive effect on the ORR activity.

The morphology and structure of the resulted FeNSC-10S were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). As seen from Fig. 3a, the Fe<sub>3</sub>C particles were well wrapped by the carbon layers with a size range of  $100 \sim 150 \, \mathrm{nm}$  dispersed on the surface of FeNSC-10S, and some carbon cavities had also been observed. The reason for the formation of carbon cavities is that the Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles were not completely encapsulated by the carbon layer during the annealing, and was removed by acid etching, which resulted in a large specific surface area for FeNSC-10S catalyst, thus exposing more active sites. Mapping analysis of the selected area of Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles in Fig. 3b is shown in Fig. 3c. As seen, the C, S, N and Fe elements were evenly distributed in the FeNSC-10S. To further determine the structure of FeNSC-10S, the catalyst was then characterized with the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and the selected area electron diffraction (SAED). The HRTEM image (Fig. 3d) revealed a whole Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticle, and Fig. 3e showed a crystalline lattice distance at around 0.34 nm and 0.21 nm, which are corresponding to the (002) plane of graphite carbon and (211) crystal faces of the Fe<sub>3</sub>C, respectively. <sup>9,19</sup> The SAED pattern (Fig. 3f) displayed several rings and scattered dots, which could be attributed to the diffraction planes of the graphitic carbon skeleton and single crystalline Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles, respectively.

Nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurements were also performed to identify the specific surface area and porosity of the prepared materials. As shown in Fig. 4a, the BET surface areas of FeNSC-5S, FeNSC-10S and FeNSC-15S were 1007 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, 1377 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, 1420 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, much higher than that of FeNSC-OS (with a specific surface area of 736 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>). The pore size distribution was further investigated by the Horvath-Kawazoe (HK) model for micropores and Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) model for mesopores, as shown in Fig. 4b. Based on the results of the HK model, the curves of FeNSC-5S, FeNSC-10S and FeNSC-15S exhibited a distinct peak at 0.74 nm, indicating that their pore size of micropores was mainly concentrated at 0.74 nm, which was slightly smaller than that of FeNSC-0S (corresponding 0.85 nm). And the BJH curves of FeNSC-0S, FeNSC-5S, FeNSC-10S and FeNSC-15S all showed an obvious peak at 3.78 nm, suggesting that the mesopore diameter of these samples was mainly 3.78 nm. In addition, the FeNSC-10S curve also exhibited a larger mesopore distribution peak at 15 nm. All in all, such a hierarchical porous structure of FeNSC-10S could facilitate the mass transfer and exposure of more active sites for ORR.20,21

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic (XPS) analysis was performed to reveal the compositional and elemental bonding information of the prepared catalysts. Figs. 5a-5d show the S 2p and N 1 s XPS survey spectra of catalysts synthesized from precursors with different S content. As observed from Fig. 5c, the S 2p peak of FeNSC-10S in the high-resolution XPS spectrum was divided into several characteristic peaks with binding energies at around 164.30 eV (S1), 165.45 eV (S2), 168.25 eV (S3)and 169.70 eV (S4), the two distinct peaks centered at 164.30 eV and 165.45 eV were attributed to the existence of C-S-C species<sup>22</sup> and the other peaks located at around 168.25 and 169.70 eV were arisen from the presence of oxidized S species (C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C).<sup>23</sup> Figure 5e displays the atomic content of C-S-C and C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C in the prepared samples. As seen, an increase of S content in the precursor from 5 to 10 wt.% corresponds to an increase of atomic content of S in the catalyst from 0.72 to 1.06 at%, where the amount of C-S-C increased from 0.58 to 0.82 at%. However, when the S content in the precursor increased to 15 wt.%, the atomic content of S in the catalyst had no obvious change, yet the amount of C-S-C decreased to 0.56 at% and the content of C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C increased to 0.55 at%. The doping of S atoms had a positive effect on the electronic structure as well as on the charge and spin density, which led to a large number of active sites of carbon atoms, thus resulting in better electrocatalytic activities.<sup>2</sup> Moreover, the thiophene-like structure (C-S-C) species would also act as an efficient active site for facilitating the ORR electrocatalysis,

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. (a) XRD patterns; (b) Raman spectrums.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. SEM images (a), (b); EDS elemental mapping images (c); HRTEM images (d), (e) and SAED pattern (f) of FeNSC-10S.

which is due largely to that C–S–C structure had a positive effect on reducing the localization of electrons around iron centers, which greatly weakened the ORR activation barrier and accelerated the reaction with oxidation state species, thus promoting the  $4e^-$  reduction pathway. Besides, the oxidized S groups (C–SO<sub>X</sub>–C) also had certain contribution to the enhancement of the ORR process through changing spin density of the carbon material. However, considering the poor conductivities of C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C, it is believed that the excess C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C will lead to the reduced ORR performance, which was

confirmed by the experimental results of this paper. The peaks of N 1 s region on the spectra (Fig. 5c) could all be fitted with four components with peaks at 398.75 eV and 399.74 eV, 401.50 eV, and 405.43 eV, which correspond to pyridinic N (N1), pyrrolic N (N2), graphitic N (N3), and oxidized N (N4),  $^{30-32}$  respectively. As seen from Fig. 5f, compared to FeNSC-0S, the total content of N was also increased in the S-doped catalyst, which can be attributed to the following two reasons: 1) some of N contained in thiourea would be doped in the carbon materials during the pyrolysis; and 2) the S doping also

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. (a) N<sub>2</sub> adsorption and desorption isotherms; (b) Pore size distributions of the prepared catalysts.

promoted the increase of N content in the pyrolyzed samples.<sup>26</sup> Different types of N have different electronic environment, which could affect the structure of adjacent carbon atoms, thus resulting in different catalytic activities.<sup>33</sup> It is generally accepted that both the pyridinic N and graphitic N are the efficient active sites for ORR, and the pyridinic N content decreases the over potential, while the graphitic N increases the limiting current density of ORR.34 In comparison with FeNSC-0S and FeNSC-5S, the FeNSC-10S sample had a higher content of N components of 2.47 at%, which are mainly composed of pyridinic N and graphitic N. At the same time, the total content of N of FeNSC-15S was basically not increased, and the amount of pyridinic N and graphitic N decreased, which is unfavorable to ORR activity of the catalyst. In summary, the successful doping of large amounts of N and S atoms, especially the pyridinic N, graphitic N and thiophene S, made a great contribution to the high catalytic activity of FeNSC-10S. The C 1 s of FeNSC-10S (Fig. S1a (available online at stacks.iop.org/JES/168/054523/mmedia)) can be deconvoluted into four peaks of 284.80 eV, 286.07 eV, 287.42 eV and 290.77 eV, corresponding to C-C/C=C, C-O/C-S/C-N, C=O/C=N and  $\pi$ - $\pi$ \* shake up satellites. 25,35,36 The O 1 s XPS spectrum (Fig. S1b) showed the three distinct peak positions with the binding energies around 531.05 eV, 532.10 eV and 533.25 eV, which can be attributed to C=O, C-O and O-H.<sup>37</sup> The high-resolution Fe 2p spectra of the FeNSC-10S composite is shown in Fig. S1c, and the signals of  $Fe^{2+} 2p_{3/2}$  (710.5 eV),  $Fe^{3+} 2p_{3/2}$  (712.5 eV),  $Fe^{2+} 2p_{1/2}$  (724.4 eV),  $Fe^{3+} 2p_{1/2}$  (726.3 eV) and a satellite peak at 717.8 eV were observed. The mixed valence state of Fe element provided a large amount of oxygen adsorption active centers.<sup>38</sup> In addition, the total surface Fe content was only 0.4 at%, and no obvious Fe<sup>0</sup> peak was found at 707 eV, which further demonstrated Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles were encapsulated by the carbon layers. Although the Fe<sub>3</sub>C particles encapsulated by the carbon layer had no direct contact with the electrolyte solution, they were considered playing an important role in activating the outer of graphitic carbon layer. 11 And the strong adhesion of the encased Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles from carbon layer to the carbon matrix resulted in a uniform distribution of active sites, which is beneficial to the enhancement of the stability of the catalyst. Noted from Fig. S1c is that the change of the sulfur amount added would not cause a significant change in the valence state of iron. Moreover, compared to NSC (Fig. S1e), the existence of the metal Fe actually promotes a substantial increase in the amount of C-S-C and graphitic N in catalyst (FeNSC-10S) during the pyrolysis, which led to the enhanced ORR activity.

Electrocatalytic properties of catalysts.—The ORR activity of the synthesized catalysts was first evaluated by the Cyclic Voltammetry (CV) on a Rotating Disk Electrode (RDE) in  $N_2$ - and  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution with the scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at 0 rpm from 0.2 to 1.1 V. As shown in Fig. 6a, the oxygen

reduction peak of S-doped catalysts in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte is more positive than FeNSC-0S. It is noteworthy that FeNSC-10S catalyst presented a higher ORR redox peak potential of 0.88 V among all the catalysts, indicating the significant catalytic activity of FeNSC-10S catalyst for ORR. In N2-saturated KOH solution, the CV curves exhibited featureless slopes for cathodic current. Figures 6b and S2b displayed the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) test results of the prepared catalysts and commercial Pt/C. As seen, after the high temperature carbonization, BP2000 (Fig. S2b) showed the lowest ORR performance with a half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  of 0.78 V; after N and Fe were introduced, the prepared FeNSC-0S catalyst demonstrated an enhanced ORR performance with an E<sub>1/2</sub> at 0.85 V; and after the incorporation of S, the catalytic activity of FeNSC-10S catalyst improved dramatically, achieving a high  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.91 V, which was higher than that of the commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C (which is 0.89 V), and it was even better than most data reported in literature.  $^{39,40}$  As seen from Fig. 6c, the  $E_{1/2}$  of FeNSC-10S was 40 mV positive shift from that of FeNSC-15S, which might be due to more content of C-S-C and less content of C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C in FeNSC-10S. Moreover, compared to FeNSC-5S, the  $E_{1/2}$  of FeNSC-15S catalyst was 30 mV negative shift, which is probably due to the excessive amount of C-SO<sub>X</sub>-C in FeNSC-15S affecting the catalytic activity, even though FeNSC-15S catalyst possessed a higher BET specific surface area and more N content. The  $E_{1/2}$  of the prepared metal-free NSC catalyst (see Fig. S2b) was 0.83 V, which was 80 mV negative shift from FeNSC-10S. On the one hand, the presence of Fe could promote the formation of C-S-C bonds and graphitic N; on the other hand, Fe<sub>3</sub>C nanoparticles wrapped in a carbon layer could be formed, and both of them are critical to the improvement of ORR activity. Therefore, the S and N co-doping in the presence of Fe is a good strategy for further enhancement of ORR performance. Fig. 6d shows the RDE polarization curves for the rotation speeds varying from 400 - 2000 rpm, which was used to investigate the ORR kinetics of FeNSC-10S catalyst. As it can be clearly seen, the diffusion-limiting current density increased with the increased rotation speed. The Koutecky-Levich (K-L) plots (Fig. 6e) of FeNSC-10S with the potential range of 0.4 - 0.8 V presented a good linearity between the  $J^{-1}$  and  $\omega^{-1/2}$ , suggesting the first-order reaction kinetics with respect to the O2 concentration, and a potential independent electron transfer rate. 19 The inset was the calculated electron transfer number (n) based on the K-L equation at different potential for the catalyst of FeNSC-10S. It is worth noting that the average number of electron transfer for the FeNSC-10S was calculated as  $\sim$ 3.87 between 0.4 - 0.8 V, demonstrating the catalyst possessed nearly a four electron ORR pathway. In addition, the corresponding average electron transfer numbers were found to be 2.38, 3.57 and 2.40, respectively, for FeNSC-0S, FeNSC-5S and FeNSC-15S based on the K-L curves (Figs. S2c-S2e). In addition,

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. (a) N 1s spectrum of the FeNSC-0S; N 1s and S 2p spectrum of (b) FeNSC-5S, (c) FeNSC-10S, (d) FeNSC-15S; (e) The content of different S configurations; (f) The content of different N configurations.

the kinetic-limiting current density  $(j_K)$  and K-L plots at 0.85 V for the different samples are depicted in Fig. 6f. As seen, the FeNSC-10S displayed a biggest  $j_K$  of 22.28 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, much higher than that of FeNSC-0S (9.37 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>), FeNSC-5S (15.78 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>), FeNSC-15S (10.10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Pt/C (11.86 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>), further indicating that the formed effective S and N configurations greatly accelerated the ORR process. The Tafel slopes (Fig. 6g) of FeNSC-10S was calculated as 70.37 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup>, which was smaller than 83.54 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup> of the 20 wt.% commercial Pt/C, indicating that the overpotential of the catalytic process of FeNSC-10S for ORR was lower than Pt/C at the same kinetic current density or apparent current density, further verifying the superior kinetics of

FeNSC-10S composite, which could be attributed to the hierarchical porous structure and the abundance of active sites (C–S–C, Fe<sub>3</sub>C, pyridinic N, graphitic N) existed in the catalyst.

To further understand the electrochemical behavior of different samples, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analysis was conducted in the frequency range of 100 kHz - 0.1 Hz in a 0.1 M KOH solution at 0.75 V, which were presented in Fig. 6h. As seen, the electron transfer resistance (Rct) for FeNSC-10S was only 1.49  $\Omega$ , smaller than that of Pt/C (2.57  $\Omega$ ); and the Rct of FeNSC-0S and FeNSC-5S were 5.59  $\Omega$  and 4.72  $\Omega$  respectively, indicating that appropriate amount of S doping could efficiently reduce the charge transfer resistance, yet the Rct for FeNSC-15S

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 6. (a) CV curves of catalysts in  $N_2$  saturated (dashed lines) and  $O_2$  saturated (solid lines) 0.1 M KOH solutions with a scan speed of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>; (b) LSV curves in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>; (c)  $E_{1/2}$ ; (d) LSV curves of FeNSC-10S in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M KOH at different rotating speeds from 400 to 2000 rpm; (e) The K-L plots of FeNSC-10S at the different potentials, and electron transfer number (inset); (f)  $j_K$  and K-L plots (inset) @ 0.85 V; (g) Tafel slope; (h) Nyquist plots for different samples FeNSC-0S, FeNSC-10S, FeNSC-15S and Pt/C (inset is the high-frequency region).

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 7. Electron transfer number and H2O2 yield of FeNSC-10S, and the inset is RRDE curves of FeNSC-10S.

was 13.09 Ω, much higher than that of FeNSC-10S. The reason of causing this may be partially due to the existence of excessive C-SOX-C bonds. At the same time, the Rct of NSC (see Fig. S3) was 6.62 Ω, also higher than FeNSC-10S. In summary, the good performance of FeNSC-10S can be attributed to the presence of Fe and the low content of C-SOX-C, both of which providing a positive effect on the charge transfer.

The H2O2 yield and electron transfer number of FeNSC-10S catalyst were calculated according to the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) test results. The RRDE test of FeNSC-10S was also carried out in a O2–saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte with the rotation speed of 1600 rpm at 1.2 V, the result was depicted in the inset of Fig. [7.](#page-8-0) As presented in Fig. 7, the quantity of H2O2 formed during the ORR process was below 10% by the disk current (id, inset in Fig. [7](#page-8-0)) and ring current (ir) based on the Eq. [5,](#page-2-3) and the calculated electron transfer number based on Eq. [4](#page-2-4) was also ∼3.87, which was corresponding to the number calculated from K–L method. In summary, the excellent performance of FeNSC-10S catalyst is attributed to the effective configurations of S (C–S–C), active N (graphitic N and pyridinic N) and the combination of rich hierarchical porous structure with the encased Fe3C nanoparticles.

In order to evaluate the electrochemical stability of the samples, the durability of FeNSC-10S and Pt/C were tested by CV in an O2–saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolyte solution at 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 100 mV/s. As indicated in Fig. [8](#page-8-1)a, the E1/2 of FeNSC-10S was negatively shifted by 12 mV after 10,000 continuous cycles, while a 24 mV change in E1/2 for Pt/C (Fig. [8](#page-8-1)b) was observed. In addition, the current density of Pt/C decreased more significantly after 10,000 cycles of testing. These comparisons demonstrated that the prepared FeNSC-10S catalyst had a better stability than the commercial Pt/C. Furthermore, the durability of the FeNSC-10S and 20 wt.% Pt/C catalysts for ORR were also investigated by the chronoamperometric measurements at 0.7 V in a O2–saturated KOH solution with an RDE rotation rate of 1600 rpm. As depicted in Fig. [8](#page-8-1)c, the relative current (i/i0) of FeNSC-10S electrode retained up to 87.48% after 60000 s. In contrast, the commercial Pt/C

<span id="page-8-1"></span>Figure 8. (a) LSV curves of FeNSC-10S before and after 10000 cycles at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm; (b) LSV curves of Pt/C before and after 10000 cycles at a rotation speed of 1600 rpm; (c) Current vs time (i–t) chronoamperometric responses of the FeNSC-10S and commercial Pt/C catalyst at 0.70 V in O2–saturated 0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm; (d) Chronoamperometric responses at 0.70 V on FeNSC-10S and Pt/C electrodes before and after injection of 15 ml of methanol in O2–saturated 0.1 M KOH at 1600 rpm.

electrode exhibited a significant decrease (up to 22.23% loss) after 30000 s of continuous operation under the same test conditions, suggesting that the FeNSC-10S catalyst possessed a remarkable long-term stability. The methanol tolerance of FeNSC-10S was another important indicator for evaluating its performance. As shown in Fig. [8](#page-8-1)d, when 15 ml of methanol was injected into the 0.1 M KOH electrolyte solution at 300 s, no significant changes were observed for FeNSC-10S, and the value of i/i0 remained at about 91.42% after 4000 s, far above the 43.09% of the Pt/C, demonstrating a superior performance in methanol tolerance compared to the commercial Pt/C catalysts.

#### Conclusions

S doping and its effect on the performance of Fe/N-C-based electrocatalysts for ORR was studied. It was validated that the introduction of S atoms would result in the formation of C–S–C bonds, which significantly improved the ORR performance; while the existence of excessive C-SOX-C bonds had a negative impact on the ORR performance. It was also revealed that the C–S–C bonds in the prepared catalysts could be adjusted by tuning the S contents in the precursor so that catalysts with abundant C–S–C bonds can be obtained, which would result in excellent ORR performance. Moreover, the incorporation of Fe further contributed to a significant increase in C–S–C bonds and graphitic N content in the catalysts during the pyrolysis. Overall, the sufficient C–S–C, graphitic N, pyridinic N, and the presence of Fe3C particles would synergistically lead to the generation of abundant active sites in the catalyst. Among all the catalysts prepared, FeNSC-10S exhibited the best electrocatalytic performance for ORR, which was even better than the commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C catalyst. Finally, an outstanding stability and methanol tolerance had also demonstrated in this catalyst. Hence it was concluded that S doping had great effect on the ORR performance of Fe/N-C catalyst, which had a great potential for applications in alkaline fuel cells (AFC) or direct methanol fuel cells (DMFC) in future. Nevertheless, more work on the improvement of its electrochemical performance in acidic conditions is still needed, and we will continue this work untill the goal is achieved.

#### Acknowledgments

Financial supports from Fujian Province Innovation & Entrepreneurship Talents Funds (2012Z02302), Energy Development Foundation of Energy College, Xiamen University (2017NYFZ02), National Natural Science Foundation of China (21276214) are greatly appreciated. The authors would also like to thank the help from Xiamen Multiple Ion Beams In-situ TEM Analysis Facility.

#### ORCID

Yun-Quan Liu <https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7168-5954>

#### References

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>1. J. Zhang, X. M. Song, P. Li, Z. X. Wu, Y. M. Wu, S. Wang, and X. E. Liu, [J. Taiwan Inst. Chem. Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtice.2018.07.040), 93, 336 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-1"></span>2. L. L. Xuan, X. J. Liu, and X. Wang, [Front. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.3389/fmats.2019.00022), 6, 12 (2019).

- <span id="page-9-2"></span>3. C. Z. Zhu et al., [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201801956), 8, 1801956 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-3"></span>4. K. Ebner, J. Herranz, V. A. Saveleva, B. J. Kim, S. Henning, M. Demicheli, F. Krumeich, M. Nachtegaal, and T. J. Schmidt, [ACS Appl. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b02036), 2, 1469 (2019).
- <span id="page-9-4"></span>5. W. H. Niu, L. G. Li, X. J. Liu, N. Wang, J. Liu, W. J. Zhou, Z. H. Tang, and S. W. Chen, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b02027), 137, 5555 (2015).
- <span id="page-9-5"></span>6. L. C. Pardo Pérez et al., [Adv. Funct. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201707551), 28, 1707551 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-6"></span>7. L. J. Yang, J. L. Shui, L. Du, Y. Y. Shao, J. Liu, L. M. Dai, and Z. Hu, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201804799), 31, 1804799 (2019).
- <span id="page-9-7"></span>8. H. Yin, C. Z. Zhang, F. Liu, and Y. L. Hou, [Adv. Funct. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201303902), 24, 2930 (2014).
- <span id="page-9-16"></span>9. M. L. Xiao, J. B. Zhu, L. G. Feng, C. P. Liu, and W. Xing, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500262), 27, 2521 (2015).
- 10. H. L. Jiang, Y. F. Yao, Y. H. Zhu, Y. Y. Liu, Y. H. Su, X. L. Yang, and C. Z. Li, [ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b06708), 7, 21511 (2015).
- <span id="page-9-8"></span>11. Y. Hu, J. O. Jensen, W. Zhang, L. N. Cleemann, W. Xing, N. J. Bjerrum, and Q. F. Li, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201400358), 53, 3675 (2014).
- <span id="page-9-9"></span>12. Q. H. Li et al., [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201800588), 30, 1800588 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-10"></span>13. H. W. Liang, X. D. Zhuang, S. Bruller, X. L. Feng, and K. Mullen, [Nat. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms5973), 5, 4973 (2014).
- <span id="page-9-11"></span>14. S. Akula and A. K. Sahu, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0441902jes), 166, F93 (2019).
- <span id="page-9-12"></span>15. S. Akula, B. Balasubramaniam, P. Varathan, and A. K. Sahu, [ACS Appl. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00100) [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b00100), 2, 3253 (2019).
- <span id="page-9-13"></span>16. T. Varga, G. Ballai, L. Vásárhelyi, H. Haspel, Á. Kukovecz, and Z. Kónya, [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.06.054) [Catal. B: Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.06.054), 237, 826 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-14"></span>17. S. Liu, G. Z. Li, Y. Y. Gao, Z. R. Xiao, J. F. Zhang, Q. F. Wang, X. W. Zhang, and L. Wang, [Catal. Sci. Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CY00491E), 7, 4007 (2017).
- <span id="page-9-17"></span><span id="page-9-15"></span>18. Y. L. Li, Q. L. Liu, S. Q. Zhang, and G. Q. Li, [Chem. Cat. Chem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201801678), 11, 861 (2019).
- 19. K. Fu, Y. Wang, L. C. Mao, X. X. Yang, J. H. Jin, S. L. Yang, and G. Li, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.06.059) [Eng. J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2018.06.059), 351, 94 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-19"></span><span id="page-9-18"></span>20. J. C. Li et al., [NPG Asia Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/am.2017.212), 10, e461 (2018).
- 21. J. Liang, R. F. Zhou, X. M. Chen, Y. H. Tang, and S. Z. Qiao, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201401848), 26, 6074 (2014).
- <span id="page-9-20"></span>22. W. X. Yang, X. Y. Yue, X. J. Liu, J. F. Zhai, and J. B. Jia, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5NR02497H), 7, 11956 (2015).
- <span id="page-9-21"></span>23. C. Chen et al., [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CC06562C), 51, 17092 (2015).
- <span id="page-9-22"></span>24. J. Liang, Y. Jiao, M. Jaroniec, and S. Z. Qiao, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201206720), 51, 11496 (2012).
- <span id="page-9-31"></span>25. A. G. Kannan, J. X. Zhao, S. G. Jo, Y. S. Kang, and D. W. Kim, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA01927J), 2, 12232 (2014).
- <span id="page-9-26"></span>26. C. Zhang, B. An, L. Yang, B. B. Wu, W. Shi, Y. C. Wang, L. S. Long, C. Wang, and W. B. Lin, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA00768F), 4, 4457 (2016).
- <span id="page-9-23"></span>27. X. Wang et al., [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC00440J), 50, 4839 (2014).
- <span id="page-9-24"></span>28. W. L. Han, C. H. Li, Y. Jiang, Z. F. Ma, Y. Zhang, X. M. Yan, and X. F. Zheng, [J. Alloys Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.156994), 852, 156994 (2021).
- <span id="page-9-25"></span>29. M. H. Naveen, K. Shim, M. S. A. Hossain, J. H. Kim, and Y. B. Shim, [Adv. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201602002) [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201602002), 7, 1602002 (2017).
- <span id="page-9-27"></span>30. Y. Q. Chang, F. Hong, C. X. He, Q. L. Zhang, and J. H. Liu, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201301002), 25, 4794 (2013).
- 31. K. B. Ma, D. H. Kwak, S. B. Han, H. S. Park, D. H. Kim, J. E. Won, S. H. Kwon, M. C. Kim, S. H. moon, and K. W. Park, [ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b00405), 6, 7609 (2018).
- <span id="page-9-28"></span>32. H. W. Liang, W. Wei, Z. S. Wu, X. L. Feng, and K. Mullen, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407552k), 135, 16002 (2013).
- <span id="page-9-29"></span>33. S. B. Yang, X. L. Feng, X. C. Wang, and K. Mullen, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201100170), 50, 5339 (2011).
- <span id="page-9-30"></span>34. N. Xue, J. Liu, P. Y. Wang, C. Y. Wang, S. Li, H. Zhu, and J. Yin, [J. Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2020.07.005) [Interface Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2020.07.005), 580, 460 (2020).
- <span id="page-9-32"></span>35. H. H. Zhang, X. Q. Liu, G. L. He, X. X. Zhang, S. J. Bao, and W. H. Hu, [J. Power](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.01.016)
- <span id="page-9-33"></span>[Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.01.016), 279, 252 (2015). 36. C. Feng, Y. Guo, S. S. Qiao, Y. H. Xie, L. Zhang, L. G. Zhang, W. Wang, and
- <span id="page-9-34"></span>J. D. Wang, [Appl. Surf. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2020.147481), 533, 147481 (2020). 37. J. X. Gao, S. Liu, P. Zhu, X. S. Zhao, and G. X. Wang, [Dalton Trans.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0DT02704A), 49, 14847
- <span id="page-9-35"></span>(2020). 38. M. Sun, Y. Z. Dong, G. Zhang, J. H. Qu, and J. H. Li, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA02172J), 2, 13635
- <span id="page-9-36"></span>(2014). 39. K. Zeng, X. J. Zheng, C. Li, J. Yan, J. H. Tian, C. Jin, P. Strasser, and R. Yang, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202000503)
- [Funct. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202000503), 30, 2000503 (2020).
- <span id="page-9-37"></span>40. L. L. Chen, X. L. Xu, W. X. Yang, and J. B. Jia, [Chin. Chem. Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2019.08.008), 31, 626 (2020).