---
source: Zhao 等 - 2023 - Noncovalent composites of meso-substituted A2 B2 -porphyrins and carbon nanotu.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 51.964s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:19:22.172261Z
---

#### PAPER

# Noncovalent composites of meso-substituted A<sub>2</sub>B<sub>2</sub>-porphyrins and carbon nanotubes for enhanced electrocatalytic oxygen reduction

To cite this article: Yue Zhao et al 2023 Nanotechnology 34 495603

View the <u>article online</u> for updates and enhancements.

# You may also like

- Gold as a catalyst. Part I. Nucleophilic addition to the triple bond
  Sergey B Alyabyev and Irina P Beletskaya
- <u>Light Harvesting, Photosensitized Electron</u> <u>Transfer in Nanocarbon–Sensitizer</u> Hybrids
  Osamu Ito and Francis D'Souza

- Alkyl complexes of divalent lanthanides and heavy alkaline earth metals Dmitry O. Khristolyubov, Dmitry M. Lyubov and Alexander A. Trifonov

# Noncovalent composites of mesosubstituted A<sub>2</sub>B<sub>2</sub>-porphyrins and carbon nanotubes for enhanced electrocatalytic oxygen reduction

Yue Zhao<sup>1</sup>, Zhen-Yu Huang<sup>1</sup>, Wan-Yue Xie<sup>1</sup>, Si-Jing Huang<sup>2</sup>, Bei Wan<sup>1</sup>, Wei-Chang Chen<sup>1</sup>, Hai-Yang Liu<sup>1</sup> and Li-Ping Si<sup>1,3</sup>

E-mail: chhyliu@scut.edu.cn, czhsj@scut.edu.cn and lipingsi@fosu.edu.cn

Received 3 July 2023, revised 28 August 2023 Accepted for publication 5 September 2023 Published 25 September 2023

#### **Abstract**

Exploring highly active oxygen reduction electrocatalysts with low precious metals content is imperative but remains a considerable challenge. Herein, a series of heterobimetallic multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) electrocatalysts based on metal complexes are presented. These electrocatalysts feature diverse transition metals (M=Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) 5.15-bromophenyl-10, 20-methoxyphenyl porphyrin (MBMP) and tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (0) (Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]) anchored non-covalently on its surface. The resulting NiBMP-based MWCNTs with Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] (PdNiN4/MWCNTs) display outstanding electrocatalytic oxygen reduction activity (onset potential, 0.941 V; half wave potential, 0.830 V) and robust long-term durability in alkaline electrolyte. While in neutral condition, the MnBMP-based MWCNTs with Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] (PdMnN4/MWCNTs) are the most active heterobimetallic ORR catalyst and produce ultra-low concentration hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield, 1.2%–1.3%). Synergistically tuning the ORR electrocatalytic activity and electron transfer pathway is achieved by the formation of NiBMP/MnBMP-Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] active sites. This work indicates such metalloporphyrin-Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] active sites on MWCNTs have significantly positive influence on electrocatalytic ORR systems and provides facile and mild strategy for designing highly efficient ORR electrocatalysts with ultra-low loading precious metal.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Keywords: heterobimetallic electrocatalyst, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium, transition metal porphyrin, multi-walled carbon nanotubes, oxygen reduction

(Some figures may appear in colour only in the online journal)

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup> School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, The Key Laboratory of Fuel Cell Technology of Guangdong Province, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510640, People's Republic of China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup> Analytical and Testing Center, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou 510641, People's Republic of China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> School of Materials Science and Energy Engineering, Foshan University, Foshan 528000, People's Republic of China

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Scheme 1. Synthetic route of PdMN4/MWCNTs.

#### 1. Introduction

Due to the high energy conversion efficiency and yet no pollution, metal–air batteries and fuel cells display great potential application in sustainable energy supply equipment [[1](#page-10-0)–[3](#page-10-0)]. These storage devices rely on oxygen reduction reactions (ORR) at the cathode. The addition of platinum (Pt) to carbon material cathode catalysts may efficiently improve the slow ORR kinetics. The high-loaded Pt catalyst has been applied for widely application in energy devices, but Pt has high cost (about 35% of the total price of fuel cells), low reserves and aggregation defects after long electrochemical cycles [[4](#page-10-0)]. Thus, great effort has been devoted to exploring non-Pt ORR catalysts with less expensive cost, efficient activity and better stability [[5](#page-10-0)–[8](#page-10-0)]. Palladium (Pd) has broadly been regarded as promising alternative to Pt for ORR because of its similar lattice constant and electronic structure, as well as higher natural abundance [[9](#page-10-0)]. Pd-based molecular catalysts are highly tolerant of a wide range of functional groups and are thought to be the universal solution for catalyzing many important reactions in organic synthesis, medicinal chemistry and material science [[10](#page-10-0)–[12](#page-10-0)]. Phosphorous in tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (0) (Pd[P(Ph3)4]), which owns strong electron-donating ability, can enhance the adsorption of intermediates and thermodynamically restrain metal dissolution [[13](#page-10-0)–[15](#page-10-0)]. Given the dominance of Pd[P(Ph3)4] in the catalysis industry, their introduction into electrocatalytic reactions appears to be a good strategy.

Much efforts have been made in optimizing active Pd microstructure and supports to strengthen its ORR performance [[16](#page-10-0)–[18](#page-10-0)]. The use of carbon materials with easy surface functionalization has been widely used as the support for Pd nanoparticles. However, the strong interaction between metal nanoparticles and carbon supports resulted in a reduction in exposed Pd active sites. [[19](#page-10-0), [20](#page-10-0)]. The modification and doping of carbon carriers can significantly improve electrochemical performance of the support Pd, where the complex interactions between Pd nanoparticles and carbon carriers functionalized by different dopants can promote charge transfer and adsorption/desorption energies of active intermediates, offering additional active sites [[21,](#page-10-0) [22](#page-10-0)]. In this context, porphyrins act as adequate systems to study in modifying carbon materials. As inspired by enzymatic processes, which apply iron tetraphenylporphyrin (FeTPP) as the bioinspired mimic of cytochrome c oxidase for selective 4e ORR, metalloporphyrin decorated with various secondary coordination sphere was researched extensively for ORR today [[23](#page-10-0), [24](#page-10-0)]. The importance of porphyrins for the ORR related to their tailor-made synthetic possibilities. Functional groups modification and metal insertion would adjust electron distribution for central macrocyclic active sites. Previous reports indicated that well-defined porphyrin architectures, especially meso-substituted A2B2-porphyrins possessing distinct functional groups, are pivotal key substances in material and biomimetic chemistry [[25,](#page-10-0) [26](#page-10-0)]. Porphyrins with extensive delocalized π electrons are highly aromatic which makes the non-covalent binding with carbon nanomaterials much easier [[27](#page-10-0)]. The interaction in porphyrin/carbon system contribute to accomplish different synchronized adsorption conformations, changing substrate binding, charge transfer, electronic level alignment, chemical and magnetic properties [[28](#page-11-0)]. Some studies have researched optical nature of porphyrin-graphene oxide/graphene quantum dots nanostructure hybrids where non-covalent composites occur distinctly charge transfer [[27](#page-10-0), [29](#page-11-0)]. Non-covalent binding of porphyrin/carbon hybrid materials are crucial for achieving various significant reaction processes.

In this work, we have firstly synthesized a variety of transition metals (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) 5,15-bromophenyl-10, 20 methoxyphenyl porphyrin (MBMP). These porphyrins were non-covalently coupled to carbon nanotubes through  $\pi$ – $\pi$ interactions and hydrogen bonding. Furthermore, we have investigated the impact of central metal ions on the mesosubstituted A<sub>2</sub>B<sub>2</sub>-porphyrin for ORR, scheme 1. We can benefit from delocalized conjugates' structure to prepare dispersible sample suspensions and explore porphyrin-Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] electron transfer processes. In order to observe the variation in non-covalent binding, UV-visible spectra were utilized to comprehend their ground state electronic interactions. The interaction of these porphyrins with Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] was followed to assess the conditions to maximize the ORR activity of such carbon-based hybrids. Electrocatalytic four-electron ORR activities of these samples in alkaline and neutral aqueous solutions had been discussed in detail, while optimum preparation technology was also studied. The NiBMP functionalized composites expressed enhanced electrocatalytic ORR activity in 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution and in 0.01 M PBS solution MnBMP modified hybrids exhibited the best ORR performance compared to other three composites. A<sub>2</sub>B<sub>2</sub>-metalloporphyrin further accelerate the ORR kinetics, where the formation of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]-macrocyclic central metal ions promote the electron transfer. The synergistic effect of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] and A<sub>2</sub>B<sub>2</sub>-metalloporphyrin co-doping is beneficial for prompting the ORR performance.

#### 2. Experimental section

2.1. Synthesis of metal (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) 5,15-(4-bromophenyl)-10.20-(4-methoxyphenyl) porphyrin (MBMP)

The detailed synthesis and characterization information was available in supporting information.

# 2.2. Fabrication of MWCNTs functionalized with 3-aminophenylboronic acid (bMWCNTs) [30]

The purchased carboxyl-modified MWCNTs (cMWCNT) were first purified with 3 M HNO<sub>3</sub> with stirring at 140 °C for 3 days to remove possible residue. Then it was flushed with deionized water, filtered and dried at 65 °C [31]. The obtained cMWCNT (500 mg) was dispersed in 30 ml of phosphate buffer saline (PBS) via ultra-sonication to avoid any sedimentation and agglomeration. 48 mg of 3-Aminophenylboronic acid (APBA) and 32 mg of 3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)—1-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC•HCl) were dissolved in above solution. The reactant was stirred for 4 h in dark place. Then, all reactants were on dialysis in deionized water for 72 h then the modified multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) aqueous solution was centrifuged to obtain solid sample. The bMWCNTs powder was rinsed several times before drying at room temperature.

#### 2.3. Synthesis of PdMN4/MWCNTs composites

bMWCNTs (20 mg), 1.5 mg of metalloporphyrin and 2.25 ml the mixture of dichloromethane and acetonitrile (volume

ratio = 1:2) were loaded in a glass tube and then subjected to three degassing procedures using a freeze–pump–thaw cycle. After being recharged with  $N_2$  atmosphere, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (0) (Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>], 9.0 mg, 0.35 M) was added into the vial and all reactants was stirred at 85°C overnight. The product was rinsed with dichloromethane, acetonitrile and deionized water several times after centrifuge. The final supernatant fluid must be shown no characteristic peaks by UV–vis spectra to ensure that there is no stacked metalloporphyrin. A series of composites was rinsed after drying at 65 °C and regarded as Pd (MN4)<sub>0.5</sub>/MWCNTs ((MN4)<sub>0.5</sub> means the mass concentration of metalloporphyrin is 0.5 mg ml<sup>-1</sup>).

#### 2.4. Electrochemical measurements

A homogeneous catalysts ink (4 mg ml $^{-1}$ ) was obtained by dispersing of the solid in 0.5% nafion-ethonal via ultrasonography. Prior to electrochemical testing, 20  $\mu$ l of catalyst ink (containing 0.41 mg of metalloporphyrin per cm $^{-2}$ ) were deposited on the glass carbon electrode and air-dried. The mass of Pd loading for MP-Pd/MWCNTs on glass carbon electrode was confirmed as 12  $\mu$ g cm $^{-2}$ . Pt loading capacity of 20 wt% Pt/C was similarly identified as  $\sim$ 12  $\mu$ g cm $^{-2}$  unless specified otherwise. The details could be seen in supporting information.

#### 2.5. Zn-air battery assembly

The anode was prepared using carbon cloth coated with PdNiN4/MWCNTs or Pt-based materials. Nickel foam cloth was applied as current collector. A catalyst loading of 2 mg cm $^{-2}$  on carbon cloth was obtained. The electrolyte was 0.2 M ZnCl $_{\rm 2}$  and 6.0 M KOH aqueous solution. Measurement was carried out with a CHI 660E electrochemical workstation at room temperature.

## 3. Results and discussion

#### 3.1. MBMP and bMWCNTs analysis

Free-base porphyrins and their corresponding metalloporphyrin have been identified by UV–vis spectroscopy, HNMR spectroscopy, and high-resolution mass spectrometry. (figures S1–S6) A UV–vis absorption spectrum was used initially to study the redox state of porphyrins. Metalloporphyrin were synthesized by coordinating porphyrin ligands with metal ions. Despite being prepared under similar conditions, the Soret band position and peak intensity ratio of 350–450 nm/500–650 nm are different. (Figure S7) Hence, porphyrins coordinated with various metal cations exhibit different redox states. In order to graft covalently bromine-containing metalloporphyrin onto MWCNTs, MWCNTs were first modified with 3-aminophenylboronic acid to introduce surface boronic-acid groups. Boronic-grafted MWCNTs (bMWCNTs) were characterized by multiple characterization methods. SEM and TEM images showed individual CNTs

**Figure 1.** (a) SEM, (b) TEM, (c) particle size distribution of particles, (d) EDS element mapping, (e) HAADF-STEM image and (f) EDX elemental line profiles of PdNiN4/MWCNTs composites.

(figures S8(a) and S8(b)). Surface element composition of bMWCNTs was studied by XPS (figure S9). It is obvious that C, N, O and B in the survey spectrum of bMWCNTs, which revealed successful integration of boron atoms onto the CNTs (table S1). In figure S10, FT-IR was also applied to investigate the grafting architecture of synthesized bMWCNTs. 1631 cm<sup>-1</sup> and 1571 cm<sup>-1</sup> peaks are corresponding to the C–O stretching vibration of carboxyl groups and acyl groups respectively. Compared with the pristine cMWCNTs spectra, the acyl group peak and carboxyl peak intensity of functionalized MWCNTs are significantly increase and decrease respectively, reflecting the phenylboronic acid groups was grafting covalently and modified with MWCNTs surface. In addition, this phenomenon that starting of characteristic peaks blue shift also indicates the molecular has successfully combined with carbon substrates. Moreover, the BET specific surface area for bMWCNTs (126 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) was smaller than that of the pristine cMWCNTs  $(157 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1})$ (figure S11(a)), which manifested that more chemicals were covered on the surface of MWCNTs. The similar pore sizes also indicated that the tube cavity of bMWCNTs was not damaged during the preparation process (figure S11(b)). Consequently, the BET surface area evidence further confirms that successful covalent immobilization of MWCNTs with boronic-acid groups. It is worth noting that the efficiency of EDC for crosslinking -COOH and -NH<sub>2</sub> is thought to be relatively low. Click reactions have the advantages of mild reaction conditions, high product purity, and simplicity of the process, enhancing simultaneously the yield of the cross-linking process. Thus, click reactions would be an alternative choice in the prospective crosslinking method.

#### 3.2. Characterization of PdMN4/MWCNTs composites

As shown in figure 1(a), the prepared catalysts are composed of a dense microstructure of carbon nanotubes.  $Pd[P(Ph_3)_4]$  nanoparticles of (3.2  $\pm$  0.2) nm are immobilized on MWCNTs surface (figures 1(b), (c)).  $Pd[P(Ph_3)_4]$  domains

were successfully anchored onto carbon nanotubes according to EDS element mapping and transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) with high resolution (figure 1(d)). In order to study element distribution at the PdNiN4/MWCNTs interface, EDX elemental line profiles (figure 1(f)) from the above corresponding HAADF-STEM images (figure 1(e)). Pd shows bell-shaped line profiles, whereas Ni and N which are attributed to the NiBMP immobilized on MWCNTs exhibit lower electron intensity under the Pd line. That means the metalloporphyrin and Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] are stacked on the surface of MWCNTs. Furthermore, the TEM images show the existence of Pd[P(Ph3)4] nanoparticle aggregation. When nanoparticles are close to each other, Van der Waals forces are created, which makes the nanoparticles clump together. In order to obtain individual particles anchored to the CNTs, dispersants should be considered in later experimental programs.

The interaction between metalloporphyrin Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] in the non-covalent PdMN4/MWCNTs nanocomposites, was studied by the increasing addition of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] acetonitrile solution to metalloporphyrin acetonitrile solution of fixed concentration. UV-visible adsorption spectra were used to explore ground state electronic interaction in acetonitrile. In figure 2(a), one adsorption peak of MnBMP at 474, 580, 618 nm have apparent blueshift with a decrease in intensity. As for FeBMP and CoBMP (figures 2(b) and (c)), the increase in concentration of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] causes a constant clearly decrease in Soret band absorption intensity without any shift. As for NiBMP (figure 2(d)), neither a shift in the porphyrin peak nor the intensity change of any absorption peak was observed. These phenomena indicate that MnBMP, FeBMP and CoBMP possess significant ground state non-covalent interactions with Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]. The bandgap values of pure MnBMP, FeBMP, CoBMP, and NiBMP were estimated to be 2.54 eV,

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 2. UV–visible adsorption spectra of (a) MnBMP, (b) FeBMP, (c) CoBMP and (d) NiBMP with increasing concentration of Pd[P (Ph3)4] in acetonitrile.

Figure 3. (a) XRD patterns, (b) Raman spectra, (c) FT-IR spectra, (d) XPS deconvoluted N 1s survey, (e) chemical states relative abundance of N elements and (f) XPS deconvoluted Pd 3d survey of (a) PdMnN4/MWCNTs, (b) PdFeN4/MWCNTs, (c) PdCoN4/MWCNTs, (d) PdNiN4/MWCNTs.

3.48 eV, 2.94 eV, and 3.16 eV. On increasing addition of Pd[P(Ph3)4] the obtained band gaps increased in the hybrid nanocomposites of PdMnN4, PdFeN4, and PdCoN4. This reveals Pd[P(Ph3)4] can cause the presence of extra energy levels, which indicates the metalloporphyrin-Pd[P(Ph3)4] species can control the charge transfer process by changing the band structure.

XRD patterns of samples are shown in figure 3(a). Hexagonal graphite structures were observed in 002 plane (2θ = 25.8°) and 100 plane (2θ = 43.1°) for all samples, manifesting that modification does not break MWCNTs graphite structure. Figure 3(b) indicates Raman spectra of the prepared PdMN4/MWCNTs, exhibiting the D and G bands at 1345 cm−<sup>1</sup> and 1579 cm−<sup>1</sup> , as defective sites and ordered graphitic of carbon structure respectively [[32](#page-11-0)]. Currently, the peak intensity ratio (ID/IG) is used to assess the degree of local disorder in carbon materials [[33](#page-11-0)]. The ID/I<sup>G</sup> intensity of PdNiN4/MWCNTs is 0.81, showing lowest local disorder degree. When the NiBMP complexes loading change,  $I_{\rm D}/I_{\rm G}$  of these hybrids has a slight change, ranked in following order: Pd (NiN4)<sub>0.5</sub> /MWCNTs < Pd (NiN4)<sub>1</sub> /MWCNTs < Pd (NiN4)<sub>0.3</sub> /MWCNTs (figure S12). MN4 active sites of NiBMP samples are often clear and adaptable and their presence changes MWCNT substrates structural defects. Strong  $\pi$ - $\pi$  metalloporphyrin-carbon interactions would lead to a low local disorder degree [34]. It should be noted that the lower local disorder structure is helpful to reducing charge transfer resistance and also impacts on stability of catalysts during the electrocatalysis process [35].

In order to prove that metalloporphyrin was anchored on MWCNTs, several characterizations were used to research the physical and chemical structure of PdMN4/MWCNTs composites. Metalloporphyrin samples exhibit the same structural characteristics as their porphyrin ligands on FT-IR spectra. As shown in figure 3(c), these characteristic peaks at 2966, 2920, 2856 cm<sup>-1</sup> is the stretching vibrations between the C-H chains of benzenoid rings, pyrrole rings, and methylene respectively. As for NiBMP, the appearance of band at 1629 cm<sup>-1</sup> is the -C=C stretching vibration of pyrrole. 1257 cm<sup>-1</sup> indicates the C–N stretching vibration of the pyrrole ring in macrocycles. The band at 1629 cm<sup>-1</sup> is the – C=C stretching vibration of the pyrrole ring.1460 cm<sup>-1</sup> (C-H stretching vibration of methoxy group), 795 cm<sup>-1</sup> (C–Br stretching vibration) are corresponding to meso-substituents in porphyrin macrocycles. MnBMP, FeBMP and CoBMP obtain these characteristic BMP peaks as well (figures S13-S15). This is in contrast to the bMWCNTs which does not show distinct characteristic peaks of porphyrin ligands at the corresponding locations. Besides the adsorption edge of bMWCNTs, these free-base porphyrin characteristic peaks also can be seen in PdMN4/MWCNTs samples (figures 3(c), S13–S15). PdMN4/MWCNTs spectra show characteristic absorption peaks of their corresponding metalloporphyrin and carbon substrate as well as significantly decreased intensity compared to their hybrids, indicating a successful immobilization of metalloporphyrin molecules on MWCNT surfaces has been achieved. The anchored metalloporphyrin which owns substantially tunable MN4 active centers increase interaction between metalloporphyrin-MWCNTs composites and oxygen molecules may be enhanced when they interact with carbon substrates [36].

The composition and redox state of these catalysts was characterized by x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). XPS spectrum reveal that the element of C, N, Pd and corresponding metal ions (Mn<sup>2+</sup>, Fe<sup>2+</sup>, Co<sup>2+</sup>, Ni<sup>2+</sup>) appear in Pd (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) N4/MWCNTs composites, while the content of these element are summarized in table S2. Pd content of PdNiN4/MWCNTs were determined to be 0.84 at% by XPS analysis and 2.52 wt% by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES). The Ni 2p core-level XPS spectrum displayed peaks at 855.1 and 872.1 eV, which were assigned to the value of Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> (figure S16(d)). Mn 2p, Fe 2p and Co 2p XPS peaks are respectively located in PdMnN4/MWCNTs, PdFeN4/MWCNTs and PdCoN4/MWCNTs (figures S16 (a)–(c)). This result indicates MWCNTs have been

successfully grafted with these metalloporphyrin active sites. N 1s XPS spectral region of these prepared samples expressed an extensive nitrogen signal that were deconvoluted into three parts (figure 3(d)). The N<sub>1s</sub> characteristic peaks around 401 eV correspond to the nitrogen atoms of the amide group in bMWCNTs, and other two peaks around 399 and 400 eV were related to the N atoms of pyridine N and MN4 active sites in metalloporphyrin. N 1s spectra of prepared samples at high resolution appear two peaks at 399.1/399.1/398.8/ 398.8 eV and 400.2/400.2/399.7/400.0/399.9 eV, referring to pyridinic N and M-N4 centers. Thus, we can obtain the redox state from the peak area ratio of (pyridine N)/(M-N). Interestingly, the redox state was the same for all samples, with a value of approximately 1, which is the same as the ratio of the number of pyridine N to M-N in the metalloporphyrin molecule (figure 3(e)). In figure 3(f), the high-resolution Pd 3d spectra owns two peaks at 337.8 and 343.0 eV, ascribed to  $Pd^{2+} 3d_{3/2}$  and  $Pd^{2+} 3d_{5/2}$  respectively, and peaks at 335.9 and 341.1 eV correspond to Pd  $3d_{3/2}$  and Pd  $3d_{5/2}$  of Pd<sup>0</sup> [37]. In comparison with the Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d<sub>3/2</sub> XPS peak of PdMnN4/ MWCNTs (341.3 eV), PdFeN4/MWCNTs (341.0 eV) and PdCoN4/MWCNTs (341.1 eV), the corresponding Pd peaks of the PdNiN4/MWCNTs (341.6 eV) shift towards higher binding energy. The positive shift means charge transfer would decrease electron cloud density of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>], resulting in decreased surface coverage of oxygen/oxygen intermediates species, while further promoting desorption of oxygenated adsorbates species on Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] active sites [38]. Both XPS and UV-visible absorption spectrum have showed that 'electron transfer process' exists when Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] non-covalently interacts with transition metalloporphyrin.

#### 3.3. Electrocatalytic ORR performance of PdMN4/MWCNTs

Potential application of the as-synthesized samples as ORR catalysts was studied in 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution. Cyclic voltammogram (CV) curves of these composites have potentials ranging from 0.6 to 1.0 V (for RHE), as shown in figure S17. The black line and red line indicate the CVs tested under O2 and N2 saturated electrolyte, respectively. For all PdMN4/MWCNTs systems, no Faraday peaks could be found in the N<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte, which means that there is no direct electron transfer at the interface between the electrode material and the glassy carbon electrode. Large reduction current density reveals the effective electron transfer between carbon support and catalytic sites for all tested PdMN4/MWCNTs hybrids. The ORR catalytic performance and kinetics were studied firstly by using rotating disk electrode (RDE). Figure S18 shows that non-covalently modified Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]/MWCNTs has relatively higher onset potential and limiting diffusion current density than mechanically mixed bMWCNTs and Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] counterpart (Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] + bMWCNTs), indicating the non-covalent interaction between Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] and bMWCNTs would be a better choice towards ORR. In figure 4(a), ORR polarization curves with these samples exhibits PdNiN4/MWCNTs has large half wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  and limiting diffusion current density  $(J_L)$ , 0.830 V and 4.28 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> respectively.  $E_{1/2}$  value of

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** (a) ORR measurement at 1600 rpm, (b) Corresponding Tafel plots (the same color represents the same sample) of tested samples, (c) ORR polarization curves of PdNiN4/MWCNTs at various rotating speed (inset graph: corresponding Koutecky–Levich plots at different potentials and electron transfer number), (d) Electron transfer numbers of tested samples, (e) Methanol tolerance and (f) Chronoamperometric response of PdNiN4/MWCNTs and 20% Pt/C. Conditions: O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH, 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> scan rate.

20 wt% Pt/C as the contrasted catalysts is 0.820 V versus RHE, which is lower than that of the PdNiN4/MWCNTs catalyst (0.830 V) under same experimental condition. The result indicated a significant improvement in the ORR kinetics by lowering the overpotential for this surface-modified composites. Followed by PdFeN4/MWCNTs, the ORR catalytic activity has  $E_{1/2} = 0.799 \text{ V}$  and  $J_L = 3.79 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ . LSV curves of PdMnN4/MWCNTs has poor  $E_{1/2}$  (0.760 V). ORR catalytic performance is arranged in this order: PdNiN4/MWCNTs > PdFeN4/MWCNTs > PdCoN4/ MWCNTs > PdMnN4/MWCNTs. In figure 4(b), the PdNiN4/MWCNTs have the lowest Tafel (65 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating a fast kinetic process, significantly better than the other tested hybrids. Tafel slope of Pd (Fe, Co, Mn) N4/MWCNTs are slightly higher than that of PdNiN4/ MWCNTs, while PdMnN4/MWCNTs has the highest Tafel slope (85 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating a higher current density and more favorable catalytic activity for the ORR when Ni porphyrins were non-covalently grafted on the surface of MWCNTs. Note that prepared Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]/MWCNTs samples show distinctly worse in  $E_{1/2}$  but owns relatively large limiting current density than metalloporphyrin immobilized covalently Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]/MWCNTs, implying that the coverage of rigid MN4 active sites in metalloporphyrin would affect MWCNTs surface electron transfer. Thus, we executed ORR tests of electrocatalysts when the NiBMP molecules concentration in preparation process is changed and the consequence was shown in figure S19.  $E_0$ ,  $E_{1/2}$  and  $J_{\rm L}$  are different and are in following order: Pd (NiN4)<sub>0.5</sub>/MWCNTs > Pd (NiN4)<sub>1</sub>/MWCNTs > Pd (NiN4)<sub>0.3</sub>/MWCNTs. Extensive NiBMP result obviously decreasing  $J_{\rm L}$  of these catalysts. Higher prepared concentration causes metalloporphyrin accumulation

around MWCNTs by intermolecular  $\pi$ - $\pi$  intraction then cannot reacts with functional groups on MWCNTs surface in effect, which negatively affect Pd axial coordination with NiBMP and further ORR catalytic performance. Generally, 0.5 mg mL<sup>-1</sup> is the optimal metalloporphyrin concentration for preparing PdNiN4/MWCNTs in ORR catalysis and stacking degree among metalloporphyrin is similarly crucial factors affecting electrocatalytic ORR activity for such composites. The above results reveal that PdNiN4/MWCNTs, which synthesized in the concentration of 0.5 mg mL<sup>-1</sup>, has obviously higher ORR electrocatalytic performance among these metalloporphyrin based-Pd/MWCNTs catalysts. Electron transfer number (n) is counted by Koutecky-Levich equation to further investigate ORR mechanism and kinetic reaction pathway. ORR polarization curves (figure 4(c)) show that tested current density increases with growing rotating speeds and its corresponding K-L plots represent good linear relationship. This phenomenon indicates the first order reaction kinetics [39]. Figure 4(d) is number of electron transfer (n) of these catalysts at 0.2–0.6 V. Among them, PdNiN4/MWCNTs has the maximum electron transfer number (n = 3.6) at 0.3 V, which is distinctly higher in other hybrids, while n value of commercial Pt/C is 3.9–4.0 (figure S20), representing a nearly 4 e<sup>-</sup> oxygen reduction process. Moreover, the electron transfer number were measured via rotating disk ring electrode (RRDE). As shown in figure S21, the  $n_{rrde}$  value of PdNiN4 /MWCNTs is 3.5 with peroxide yield of 21%-27%, which is verified by our above ORR polarization curves results. The methanol tolerance is of great importance to cathode materials (figure 4(e)). Pt/C showed distinct current loss after methanol injection, whereas PdNiN4 /MWCNTs was not obviously decreased by methanol, which indicated better methanol tolerance. Stability is a crucial factor to be valued for

**Figure 5.** (a) RRDE polarization curves at 1600 rpm rotation speed, (b) Corresponding Tafel plots of 20% Pt/C, PdMnN4/MWCNTs, PdFeN4/MWCNTs, PdCoN4/MWCNTs and PdNiN4/MWCNTs, (c) Electron transfer number and  $H_2O_2$  yield, (d) CV curves of PdMnN4/MWCNTs at different scan rate (1–5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) in 0.01 M PBS, (e) Electrical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) of tested samples. (f)  $H_2O_2$  yield comparison in 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution and 0.01 M PBS of tested samples.

the potential application in rechargeable Zn–air systems. For the purpose of comparing and evaluating the stability of PdNiN4 /MWCNTs for electrocatalysis, Chronoamperometry (CA) method was operated for 35000 s at the ORR potential (figure 4(f)). The current of PdNiN4 /MWCNTs decreased to 73% after 35 000 s of the CA test, thus showing excellent stability for a long-term ORR process.

Same design of cathodic electrodes with PdMN4/ MWCNTs, adapted to work in neutral electrolyte for the bioelectrochemical system. ORR activity of prepared catalysts has also been studied in neutral (0.01 M PBS, pH = 7.4). Figure 5(a)presents the ORR polarization curves of various PdMN4/ MWCNTs composites. The onset potential of PdFeN4/ MWCNTs, PdCoN4/MWCNTs, PdNiN4/MWCNTs and 20 wt% Pt/C based on ORR polarization curves are 0.790, 0.722, 0.671 and 0.706 V versus RHE, in which the PdMnN4/ MWCNTs gives the highest onset potential (0.794 V versus RHE). The ORR activity of PdMnN4/MWCNTs and PdFeN4/ MWCNTs is similar and higher than other tested samples, with the  $E_{1/2}$  is 0.506 V and  $J_L$  value is 5.07 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. PdNiN4/ MWCNTs has the worst performance among all samples. The smaller Tafel slope indicates that the potential increases slowly with increasing current density, leading to a fast ORR. PdMnN4/MWCNTs has relatively smaller Tafel  $(120 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$  than PdFeN4/MWCNTs  $(121 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , PdCoN4/MWCNTs (133 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and PdNiN4/MWCNTs (142 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (figure 5(b)), further demonstrating its excellent reaction kinetic in 0.01 M PBS. We have found Pt/C and prepared Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>]/MWCNTs without metalloporphyrin modification have relatively poor and unstable activity after three consecutive LSV tests in 0.01 M PBS (figure S22), whereas PdMnN4/MWCNTs has quite stable ORR polarization curves, which manifest that MN4/C active sites with various metal ions influence kinetic transfer process and favor for anchoring precious metal nanoparticles. As shown in figure 5(c), the electron transfer number of 3.98-3.99 with low hydrogen peroxide yield of 1.2%–1.3% for the MP-Pd/MWCNTs calculated by RRDE measurements demonstrate a complete four-electron ORR route towards the formation of H<sub>2</sub>O. PdCoN4/MWCNTs and PdNiN4/MWCNTs produced relatively abundant hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> yield, 1.7%-1.9% and 4.8%-5.2%, respectively). ECSA is another vital factor in the study of ORR activity, and large ECSA often implies high catalytic activity. It was regulated according to the proportional relationship between  $C_{\rm dl}$  and ECSA [40, 41], where  $C_{\rm dl}$  was calculated from CV curves of different scan speed in 0.01 M PBS (figures 5(d), S23). As shown in figure 5(e), PdFeN4/MWCNTs (5.85 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), PdCoN4/MWCNTs (5.39 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and PdNiN4/MWCNTs  $(5.43 \,\mathrm{mF \, cm^{-2}})$  possess almost the same  $C_{\rm dl}$  values, which are worse than that of PdMnN4/MWCNTs (6.55 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). Existing trend of  $C_{\rm dl}$  is positively relevant to that of the  $E_{1/2}$ value and electron transfer number. PdMnN4/MWCNTs owns highest  $C_{\rm dl}$  values exhibits most active ORR performance and lowest H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> selectivity compared with PdCoN4/MWCNTs and PdNiN4/MWCNTs. These results indicate that the PdMnN4/ MWCNTs is a promising catalyst candidate to replace commercial Pt/C under neutral condition.

RRDE test was applied to quantify the formation of  $H_2O_2$  and investigate the ORR route of catalysts. The Pd (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) N4 /MWCNTs catalysts show significantly different electron transfer values in alkaline and neutral environments. The  $H_2O_2$  yield of all PdMN4/MWCNTs in PBS are universally lower than that in KOH condition always has a high yield of  $H_2O_2$  (figure 5(f)). The n values of Pd (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) N4/MWCNTs in neutral media are closer to four-electron than that in alkaline aqueous solution, showing there are

**Figure 6.** Zn-air battery performance. (a) Open circuit voltage, (b) Power density and the discharge i- $\nu$  curve, (c) galvanostatic charge-discharge profile of the first 5 cycles and (d) Voltage stability of 20% Pt/C and PdNiN4/MWNCTs.

various reactions mechanism caused by various OH concentrations and rate-determining steps [42, 43]. The terminal metal-oxo species are crucial intermediates formed during the four-electron process [44]. Excepted terminal Mn-oxo species present steadily in macrocyclic complexes, the electrons in other late transition metal ions d-orbitals universally exclude the generation of metal-oxo species [45, 46]. MWCNTs surface with abundant delocalized  $\pi$  electrons can reduce the possibility that any metal-oxo intermediates was dissolved into the aqueous electrolyte. Hence, PdMnN4/MWCNTs obtained optimal ORR activity and almost complete conversion of dioxygen to H<sub>2</sub>O. In alkaline electrolyte with higher OH concentrations, active species involving various metaloxo/peroxo/superoxol intermediates improve higher overpotential and reaction kinetics, but relatively fewer metal-oxo species in metalloporphyrin tend to catalyze ORR to hydrogen peroxide through a two-electron pathway.

#### 3.4. Zn-air battery assembly

In order to evaluate the potential application as cathodic electrode materials for Zn-air systems, aqueous Zn-air batteries have been assembled. PdNiN4/MWCNTs and Pt/C attach to carbon paper were used as air cathode, and the Zn foil was used as anode. The open circuit voltage (OCV) of PdNiN4/MWCNTs was 1.43 V (versus Zn), and the test was maintained for 5000 s (figure 6(a)). This discharge polarization curve and the corresponding power density are shown in figure 6(b). The peak power density of Zn-air system based on PdNiN4/MWCNTs was 100 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>, which was comparable to that of Pt/C (109 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>). The recharge stability of PdNiN4/MWCNTs and commercial Pt/C catalysts-

based Zn-air system was also measured (figure 6(c)). The PdNiN4/MWCNTs discharging potential (1.21 V) was lower than that of Pt/C (1.26 V) and its charging potential (2.06 V) was higher than that of commercial Pt/C (2.03 V). In addition, PdNiN4/MWCNTs revealed excellent stability compare to commercial Pt/C, with stable discharging and charging potential more than 18 h (figure 6(d)). Thus, PdNiN4/MWCNTs displayed promising cathodic catalysts for Zn-air application.

#### 4. Conclusions

In this paper, we have showed the electronic communication of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] and different transition metal (Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) 5,15-bromophenyl-10,20-methoxyphenyl porphyrin (MBMP) which were non-covalently coupled to MWCNTs and investigated ORR activity of these hybrids in alkaline and neutral electrolyte. The composited transition metalloporphyrin promote electron transfer and change the bond of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] and carbon supports, accounting for improving electrocatalytic performance of Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>] active species. PdNiN4/ MWCNTs was found to be the most active ORR catalyst in alkaline electrolyte, and PdMnN4/MWCNTs was the most active regarding the lower yield of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> in neutral condition. The pronounced catalytic performance can be credited with synergistic effect of macrocyclic central metal sites and Pd[P(Ph<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub>], which leads to favorable four-electron pathway and excellent durability. PdNiN4/MWCNTs composites also exhibited better peak power density value (100 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>) in the alkaline Zn-air system comparable to that with <span id="page-10-0"></span>commercial Pt/C. This work provides more simple and gentle routes for the development of the precious metal catalysts.

#### Acknowledgments

The authors are grateful for support from National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 22005052, 21671068).

## Data availability statement

All data that support the findings of this study are included within the article (and any supplementary files).

# Conflict of interest

The authors declare no competing conflict of interest.

#### ORCID iDs

Hai-Yang Liu [https:](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1793-952X)//orcid.org/[0000-0002-1793-952X](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1793-952X)

### References

- [1] Mustain W E, Chatenet M, Page M and Kim Y S 2020 Durability challenges of anion exchange membrane fuel cells Energy Environ. Sci. 13 [2805](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE01133A)–38
- [2] Han X P, Li X P, White J, Zhong C, Deng Y D, Hu W B and Ma T Y 2018 Metal-air batteries: from static to flow system Adv. Energy Mater. 8 [1801396](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201801396)
- [3] Lee Y M 2016 Operating flexibly Nat. Energy 1 [16136](https://doi.org/10.1038/NENERGY.2016.136)–36
- [4] Cruz-Martinez H, Rojas-Chavez H, Matadamas-Ortiz P T, Ortiz-Herrera J C, Lopez-Chavez E, Solorza-Feria O and Medina D I 2021 Current progress of Pt-based ORR electrocatalysts for PEMFCs: an integrated view combining theory and experiment Mater. Today Phys. 19 [100406](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtphys.2021.100406)
- [5] Kong Z Y, Liu T, Hou K and Guan L H 2022 Atomically dispersed Mn-N-4 electrocatalyst with high oxygen reduction reaction catalytic activity from metal-organic framework ZIF-8 by minimal-water-assisted mechanochemical synthesis J. Mater. Chem. A 10 [2826](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA09183B)–34
- [6] Kosimov A, Yusibova G, Aruvali J, Paiste P, Kaarik M, Leis J, Kikas A, Kisand V, Smits K and Kongi N 2022 Liquidassisted grinding/compression: a facile mechanosynthetic route for the production of high-performing Co-N-C electrocatalyst materials Green Chem. 24 [305](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1GC03433B)–14
- [7] Chen W C, Yang G, Zhao Y, Yuan G Q, Ye J S, Liu H Y and Xiao X Y 2021 Porous carbon polyhedrons with exclusive Metal-NX moieties for efficient oxygen reduction reaction Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 46 [39882](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.09.244)–91
- [8] Xu H, Shang H Y, Wang C and Du Y K 2021 Recent progress of ultrathin 2D Pd-based nanomaterials for fuel cell electrocatalysis Small 17 [2005092](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202005092)
- [9] Xiao W et al 2018 Atomic rearrangement from disordered to ordered Pd-Fe nanocatalysts with trace amount of Pt decoration for efficient electrocatalysis Nano Energy [50](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.05.032) [70](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.05.032)–8
- [10] Assad S, Tariq T, Idrees M Z, Butt A M, Bakhat K and Shamraiz U 2023 Recent progress in Pd based

- electrocatalysts for electrochemical nitrogen reduction to ammonia J. Electroanal. Chem. 931 [117174](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2023.117174)
- [11] El Fergani M, Candu N, Podolean I, Cojocaru B, Nicolaev A, Teodorescu C M, Tudorache M, Parvulescu V I and Coman S M 2022 Catalytic hydrotreatment of humins waste over bifunctional Pd-based zeolite Catal. Catal. 12 [1202](https://doi.org/10.3390/catal12101202)–19
- [12] Alshammari A S, Natte K, Kalevaru N V, Bagabas A and Jagadeesh R V 2020 Scalable preparation of stable and reusable silica supported palladium nanoparticles as catalysts for N-alkylation of amines with alcohols J. Catal. 382 [141](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.012)–9
- [13] Wei P et al 2021 Porous N, B co-doped carbon nanotubes as efficient metal-free electrocatalysts for ORR and Zn–air batteries Chem. Eng. J. 422 [130134](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.130134)
- [14] Wang T-J, Jiang Y-C, He J-W, Li F-M, Ding Y, Chen P and Chen Y 2022 Porous palladium phosphide nanotubes for formic acid electrooxidation Carbon Energy 4 [283](https://doi.org/10.1002/cey2.170)–93
- [15] Dai Z, Wang W, Wang Z, Wang S, Yu H, Xu Y, Li X, Wang L and Wang H 2022 Phosphorus incorporation accelerates ammonia electrosynthesis over a mesoporous Au film Chem. Commun. 58 [6088](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CC00274D)–91
- [16] Fan J, Du H, Zhao Y, Wang Q, Liu Y, Li D and Feng J 2020 Recent progress on rational design of bimetallic pd based catalysts and their advanced catalysis ACS Catal. [10](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03280) [13560](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03280)–83
- [17] Hosseini M G, Hosseinzadeh F, Zardari P and Darbandi M 2021 Pd–Co nanoparticles decorated on different carbon based substrates as electrocatalyst for O2 reduction reaction Int. J. Hydrogen Energ. 46 [28513](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.06.075)–26
- [18] Wang Z, Tian P, Zhang H, Deng K, Yu H, Wang X, Xu Y, Wang H and Wang L 2022 Phosphorus-triggered activation of PdPb nanoflowers for enhanced oxygen reduction electrocatalysis J. Mater. Chem. A 10 [15528](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA02766F)–34
- [19] Zhang C et al 2019 Suppressing the Pd–C interaction through B-doping for highly efficient oxygen reduction Carbon [149](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2019.04.060) [370](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2019.04.060)–9
- [20] Chen Y, Niu J, Pei Y, Song H, Fan Y, Lu S and Liu B 2023 Methanol-reduced Pd nanoparticles anchored on B,N-CDs@CNT hybrid for oxygen reduction reaction Int. J. Hydrog. Energ. 48 [5116](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.11.054)–25
- [21] Chen A and Ostrom C 2015 Palladium-based nanomaterials: synthesis and electrochemical applications Chem. Rev. [115](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00324) [11999](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00324)–2044
- [22] Liu X, Li L, Meng C and Han Y 2012 Palladium nanoparticles/defective graphene composites as oxygen reduction electrocatalysts: a first-principles study J. Phys. Chem. C 116 [2710](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp2096983)–9
- [23] Bhunia S, Rana A, Roy P, Martin D J, Pegis M L, Roy B and Dey A 2018 Rational design of mononuclear iron porphyrins for facile and selective 4e(–)/4H(+) O2 reduction: activation of O–O bond by 2nd sphere hydrogen bonding J. Am. Chem. Soc. 140 [9444](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b02983)–57
- [24] Saveant J-M 2019 Proton relays in molecular catalysis of electrochemical reactions: origin and limitations of the boosting effect Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 58 2125–8
- [25] Fadda A A, El-Gendy E, Refat H M and Tawfik E H 2021 Utility of dipyrromethane in the synthesis of some new A(2) B(2) porphyrin and their related porphyrin like derivatives with their evaluation as antimicrobial and antioxidant agents Dyes Pigments 191 [109008](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dyepig.2020.109008)
- [26] Pandey V, Raza M K, Joshi P and Gupta I 2020 Synthesis of water-soluble thioglycosylated trans-A(2)B(2) type porphyrins: cellular uptake studies and photodynamic efficiency J. Org. Chem. 85 [6309](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.9b03491)–22
- [27] Valentini L, Trentini M, Mengoni F, Alongi J, Armentano I, Ricco L, Mariani A and Kenny J M 2007 Synthesis and photoelectrical properties of carbon nanotube-dendritic porphyrin bight harvesting molecule systems Diam. Relat. Mater. 16 [658](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diamond.2006.11.097)–63

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[28] Beyzavi M H, Nietzold C, Reissig H-U and Wiehe A 2013 Synthesis of functionalized trans-A2B2-porphyrins using donoracceptor cyclopropane-derived dipyrromethanes Adv. Synth. Catal. 355 [1409](https://doi.org/10.1002/adsc.201300141)–22
- [29] Gao X, Zhang B, Zhang Q, Tang Y, Liu X and Li J 2018 The influence of combination mode on the structure and properties of graphene quantum dot-porphyrin composites Colloid Surface B [172](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.08.010) [207](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.08.010)–12
- [30] Dang Y, Shen S, Wang Y H, Qu X W, Huang S, Dong Q F, Silva S R P and Kang B A 2018 Hole extraction enhancement for efficient polymer solar cells with boronic acid functionalized carbon nanotubes doped hole transport layers ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 6 [5122](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.7b04791)–31
- [31] Zhou H H, Liu Y Q, Ren M Y and Zhai H J 2022 Mechanically exfoliated graphite paper with layered microstructures for enhancing flexible electrochemical energy storage Inorg. Chem. Front. 9 [1920](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1QI01601F)–30
- [32] Cheng W Z et al 2020 Boosting defective carbon by anchoring well-defined atomically dispersed metal-N-4 sites for ORR, OER, and Zn–air batteries Appl. Catal. B-Environ. 260 [118198](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118198)
- [33] Liu K L, Jiao M L, Chang P P, Wang C Y and Chen M M 2018 Pitch-based porous aerogel composed of carbon onion nanospheres for electric double layer capacitors Carbon [137](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.05.038) [304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2018.05.038)–12
- [34] Guan T T, Li K X, Zhao J H, Zhao R J, Zhang G L, Zhang D D and Wang J L 2017 Template-free preparation of layer-stacked hierarchical porous carbons from coal tar pitch for high performance all-solid-state supercapacitors J. Mater. Chem. A 5 [15869](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02966G)–78
- [35] Wang J and Ciucci F 2019 In-situ synthesis of bimetallic phosphide with carbon tubes as an active electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction Appl. Catal. B-Environ. [254](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.05.009) [292](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.05.009)–9
- [36] Ma R, Cui X, Wang Y L, Xiao Z Y, Luo R, Gao L K, Wei Z N and Yang Y K 2022 Pyrolysis-free synthesis of single-atom cobalt catalysts for efficient oxygen reduction J. Mater. Chem. A 10 [5918](https://doi.org/10.1039/d1ta08412g)–24
- [37] Si W Y, Yang Z, Hu X L, Lv Q, Li X D, Zhao F H, He J J and Huang C S 2021 Preparation of zero valence Pd

- nanoparticles with ultra-efficient electrocatalytic activity for ORR J. Mater. Chem. A 9 [14507](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA00788B)–14
- [38] Zhu Y L, Zhou W, Chen Y B, Yu J, Xu X M, Su C, Tade M O and Shao Z P 2015 Boosting oxygen reduction reaction activity of palladium by stabilizing its unusual oxidation states in perovskite Chem. Mat. 27 [3048](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b00450)–54
- [39] Yin P Q et al 2016 Single cobalt atoms with precise n-coordination as superior oxygen reduction reaction catalysts Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit. 55 [10800](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201604802)–5
- [40] McCrory C C L, Jung S H, Peters J C and Jaramillo T F 2013 Benchmarking heterogeneous electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction J. Am. Chem. Soc. 135 [16977](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p)–87
- [41] Han L, Yu X Y and Lou X W 2016 Formation of prussianblue-analog nanocages via a direct etching method and their conversion into Ni-Co-mixed oxide for enhanced oxygen evolution Adv. Mater. 28 [4601](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201506315)–5
- [42] Sgarbi R, Kumar K, Jaouen F, Zitolo A, Ticianelli E A and Maillard F 2021 Oxygen reduction reaction mechanism and kinetics on M–N(x)C(y)and M@N-C active sites present in model M–N–C catalysts under alkaline and acidic conditions J. Solid State Electrochem. 25 [45](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10008-019-04436-w)–56
- [43] Friedman A, Samala N R, Honig H C, Tasior M, Gryko D T, Elbaz L and Grinberg I 2021 Control of molecular catalysts for oxygen reduction by variation of pH and functional groups ChemSusChem 14 [1886](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202002756)–92
- [44] Hong Y S, Li L B, Huang B Y, Tang X N, Zhai W J, Hu T, Yuan K and Chen Y W 2021 Molecular control of carbonbased oxygen reduction electrocatalysts through metal macrocyclic complexes functionalization Adv. Energy Mater. 11 [2100866](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202100866)
- [45] Zhang W, Lai W Z and Cao R 2017 Energy-related small molecule activation reactions: oxygen reduction and hydrogen and oxygen evolution reactions catalyzed by porphyrin- and corrole-based systems Chem. Rev. [117](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00299) [3717](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00299)–97
- [46] Li X L et al 2021 Identifying intermediates in electrocatalytic water oxidation with a manganese corrole complex J. Am. Chem. Soc. 143 [14613](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c05204)–21