---
source: Zhao 等 - 2020 - Ultrasmall 2 D Co x  Zn 2− x  (Benzimidazole)4 Metal–.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 30.878s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:14:11.470479Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Ultra-small 2D CoxZn2-x(benzimidazole)4 MOF nanosheets and their derived Co nanodots@Co-N-codoped graphene for efficient oxygen reduction reaction

**Authors:** Kuangmin Zhao, Suqin Liu, Guanying Ye, Xianli Wei, Yuke Su, Weiwei Zhu, Zhi Zhou, and Zhen He

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.201902776

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201902776

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

# Ultra-small 2D Co<sub>x</sub>Zn<sub>2-x</sub>(benzimidazole)<sub>4</sub> MOF nanosheets and their derived Co nanodots@Co-N-codoped graphene for efficient oxygen reduction reaction

Kuangmin Zhao<sup>a</sup>, Suqin Liu<sup>\*a</sup>, Guanying Ye<sup>a</sup>, Xianli Wei<sup>a</sup>, Yuke Su<sup>a</sup>, Weiwei Zhu<sup>a</sup>, Zhi Zhou<sup>b</sup>, and Zhen He<sup>\*a</sup>

Abstract: The development of non-precious metal-nitrogen-carbon (M-N-C) with efficient metal utilization and abundant active sites toward the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is of great significance for fuel cells and metal-air batteries. Herein, ultra-small 2D Co<sub>x</sub>Zn<sub>2</sub>. x(benzimidazole)4  $(Co_xZn_{2-x}(BIM)_4)$  bimetallic metal-organic framework (MOF) nanosheets (~2 nm thick) are synthesized by a novel bottom-up strategy, which are then thermally converted to a core-shell structure of sub-5 nm Co nanodots (NDs) wrapped by 2 to 5 layers of Co-N-codoped graphene (Co@FLG). The size of the Co NDs in the Co@FLG could be precisely controlled by the Co:Zn ratio in the Co<sub>x</sub>Zn<sub>2-x</sub>BIM<sub>4</sub> nanosheet. The optimized Co@FLG, as an ORR electrocatalyst, exhibits an excellent half-wave potential of 0.841 V vs. RHE, a high limiting current density of 6.42 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, and great stability in alkaline electrolyte. The Co@FLG also possesses great ORR performance in neutral electrolyte as well as in Mg-air batteries. The experimental studies and DFT calculations reveal that the high performance of the Co@FLG is mainly attributed to its great O2 absorptivity endowed by the abundant Co-N<sub>x</sub> and pyridinic-N in the FLG shell and the strong electron-donating ability from the Co ND core to the FLG shell to elevate the eq-orbital energy of Co(II) and lower the activation energy for breaking the O=O/O-O bonds. This work sheds lights on the design and fabrication of 2D MOFs as well as the MOF-derived M-N-C materials for energy storage and conversion applications.

#### Introduction

Since the metal-nitrogen-carbon materials (M-N-C, M = Fe, Co, Ni, et al.) emerged as a kind of high-performance oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) catalysts, they have been intensively investigated as promising alternatives for the commercial Pt/C catalyst for fuel cells and metal-air batteries. [1] The typical active sites toward the ORR in the reported M-N-C materials can be classified into four types, i.e., the metal-nitrogen moieties (M-N<sub>x</sub>), metal nanoparticles encapsulated in a carbon layer (M@C), nitrogen doped carbon (N-C), and intrinsic defects of carbon

[a] Kuangmin Zhao, Prof. Suqin Liu, Guanying Ye, Xianli Wei, Yuke Su, Weiwei Zhu, Prof. Zhen He. College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Chemical Power Sources, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan 410083, P.R. China. E-mails: Suqin Liu (sqliu2003@126.com), Zhen He (zhenhe@csu.edu.cn)

[b] Prof. Zhi Zhou College of Science, Hunan Agricultural University, Changsha, Hunan 410128, P. R. China

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

(DC).[2] Among these, the M-Nx is considered to be the most active site for ORR due to the strong electron donating ability of nitrogen and the excellent O<sub>2</sub> absorptivity of the M<sup>2+</sup> site.<sup>[3]</sup> To achieve a high ORR catalytic performance of M-N-C, much effort has been devoted to increasing the density of the M-Nx active sites. [4] A representative work of the M-N-C catalysts with a high content of M-N<sub>x</sub> sites is the development of nitrogen-anchored single-metal-atom doped carbon materials.<sup>[5]</sup> However, a major issue of the single-metal-atom doped carbon materials is that the metal loading is too low (usually below 5 wt%). [6] The M-N<sub>x</sub> contents in those M-N-C catalysts are lower than 0.5 at%, leading to a relatively negative half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) and low limiting current density  $(i_l)$  for the ORR. Although effort has been made to increase the loading of single-atom metal sites in carbon materials, aggregation of the loaded metal atoms inevitably occurs as the loading increases, resulting in the formation of metal or metal alloy nanoparticles. [7] Theoretically, metal nanoparticles could also be catalytically active for breaking the O=O/O-O bonds due to their excellent electrondonating ability, which could greatly reduce the change of the Gibbs free energy ( $\Delta G$ ) of the ORR. However, in practical use, the metal nanoparticles usually do not exhibit a satisfactory catalytic activity toward the ORR owing to their poor O2 absorptivity and low stability in aqueous electrolytes. In contrast, the M@C is more stable than the bare metal nanoparticles and, in the meantime, could be still active toward the ORR via the penetration of electrons from the metal core to the carbon shell. However, the catalytic performance of the M@C is susceptible to the thickness of the outer carbon layer since the electrons could barely penetrate through more than 5 layers of graphene. [9] To date, the reported M@C always possesses metal nanoparticles with a relatively large diameter (i.e., ≥10 nm), which lowers the metal utilization efficiency. Thus, the development of novel synthesis strategies to fabricate M@C with ultra-small metal nanoparticles wrapped by an ultrathin carbon layer is of great significance.

In recent years, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) derived materials have received great attention in the fields of energy storage and conversion due to their well-defined crystal structures, large specific surface areas, high-volume tunable porous structures, and variety of synthesis approaches. [10] MOFs with different metallic central ions (e.g., Fe, Co, and Ni) can be used as precursors to fabricate M-N-C materials through simple treatments.[11] Two-dimensional metal-organic framework (2D MOF) as a new member of 2D nanomaterials with a nanoscale thickness (<10 nm) has attracted increasing research interest.<sup>[12]</sup> The metal atoms in separate 2D MOF nanosheets (NSs) have relatively large distances and therefore their aggregation during the carbonization process could be effectively inhibited. [5a] In addition, carbon-based materials derived from the 2D MOF NSs are usually ultra-thin or ultra-

small with high specific surface areas and abundant accessible active sites, which are essentially important features for the high-performance ORR electrocatalysts. [\[13\]](#page-9-12) Similar to other 2D materials, the 2D MOF NSs also tend to self-assemble into the bulk-like layered MOF crystals due to the π-π interaction, hydrogen bonding, or van der Waals forces.[\[14\]](#page-9-13) The synthesis strategies of 2D MOFs mainly focus on breaking these interlayer interactions, which can be divided into two classes, i.e., topdown and bottom-up.[\[12\]](#page-9-11) Generally, the 2D MOFs are obtained from the bulk-like layered MOFs based on the top-down exfoliation methods, including solvent intercalation,[\[10a,](#page-9-9) [15\]](#page-9-14) middle layer tailoring,[\[16\]](#page-9-15) ball-milling,[\[10a\]](#page-9-9) and interlayer ligand breaking.[\[17\]](#page-9-16) However, the breaking of the coordination bonds during the exfoliation process inevitably causes the structural deterioration, which has hampered the preparation of highquality 2D MOFs.[\[10a\]](#page-9-9) Bottom-up is a synthesis strategy that could directly synthesize high-quality 2D MOFs from central metal ions and ligands. With suitable interface-mediates [\[18\]](#page-9-17) and surfactants, [\[19\]](#page-9-18) the growth of the layered MOFs in the direction perpendicular to the layers can be selectively restricted during the bottom-up synthesis. Recently, several 2D MOF NSs, such as Cu(1,4-dicarboxybenzene) (Cu-BDC), M-meso-Tetra(4 carboxyphenyl)porphine, Zr(1,3,5-Tris(4-carboxyphenyl) benzene), and Zn-hexamine have been obtained by using the bottom-up approaches. [\[19-20\]](#page-9-18) However, some drawbacks in the reported bottom-up methods, such as inhomogeneous thickness, low yield, and high cost of the products, have hindered their applications in the large-scale production of 2D MOFs. In our previous work, ultrathin Zn(benzimidazole)(OAc) (Zn(BIM)(OAc)) NSs with a homogeneous thickness of ~5 nm were synthesized by using a gluconate-assisted bottom-up method.[\[21\]](#page-9-19) In order to employ the ultrathin 2D MOFs as the precursors for the fabrication of M-N-C, seeking a more effective method to synthesize the low-cost ultrathin MOF NSs (M=Fe, Co, and Ni) still requires efforts.

Herein, two-layer M2BIM<sup>4</sup> (CoxZn2-xBIM4, 0≤x≤2) NSs with a thickness of about 2 nm are synthesized by using a triethylamine-polyvinylpyrrolidone (TEA-PVP) *co*-assisted bottom-up method. Subsequently, sub-5 nm Co nanodots (Co NDs) encapsulated in the few-layer graphene (Co@FLG) are successfully obtained by carbonizing the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs precursor. The Co@FLG with the optimal structure derived from the Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs shows comparable or even better catalytic performance for ORR compared with the commercial Pt/C catalyst and most of the reported Co-N-C catalysts in both alkaline and neutral electrolytes. The experimental studies and DFT calculations show that the great catalytic performance of the Co@FLG toward the ORR is mainly attributed to the abundant adsorption sites for O<sup>2</sup> on the graphene shell and the excellent electron-donating ability of the Co ND core enhancing the energy level of *e*g-orbital in Co-N<sup>x</sup> site and facilitating the breaking of the O=O/O-O bonds.

#### **Results and Discussion**

As illustrated in **Scheme 1**, the M2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs were synthesized by a TEA-PVP *co*-assisted method. Specifically, the precoordination between TEA and M2+ , forming M(TEA)4, could slow down the reaction between BIMand M2+ . Then, the BIM-

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the TEA-PVP *co*-assisted bottom-up synthesis strategy of M2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs.

(as an agent for nucleophilic attack) slowly replaces the TEA in M(TEA)<sup>4</sup> by coordinating with the M 2+ central ion, forming M(TEA)3-BIM-M(TEA)3. Further coordination reaction between the excessive BIMand the M 2+ results in ultra-small M2(BIM)4@M(BIM)n(TEA)2-n coordination units that grow into M2BIM<sup>4</sup> crystals with excessive BIMin the solution. In the meantime, the excessive BIMand long-chain PVP imbedded on the surface of the M2BIM<sup>4</sup> crystals could effectively break the van der Waals interaction between the adjacent M2BIM<sup>4</sup> layers, resulting in ultrathin M2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. To control the cobalt content in the synthesized M2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, Zn(NO3)<sup>2</sup> was used to partially replace Co(NO3)<sup>2</sup> in the initial reactants of synthesis, resulting in bimetallic CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (0≤x≤2). The ICP result (Table S1) shows that the molar ratio of Co:Zn in CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> is coincident with that in the initial reactants, indicating that the Co content in CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> can be easily regulated.

The crystalline structures of the as-prepared CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> MOFs were investigated by XRD. As shown in **Figure 1**a, the XRD patterns of the as-prepared Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> (red line) and Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> (blue line) NSs are similar, both of which coincide with the XRD pattern of the bulk Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> (black line) as well as the simulated pattern of M2(BIM)<sup>4</sup> (CSD no:675375). This result indicates that TEA, as a pre-coordination agent, does not affect the crystalline structure of the as-synthesized M2BIM4. The M2BIM<sup>4</sup> is a kind of layered MOF crystals (Figure S1a), in which the adjacent layers are assembled along the [001] direction by the weak van der Waals forces. Each layer of the M2BIM<sup>4</sup> (i.e., the (001) plane) is composed of the M2+(BIM- )<sup>2</sup> blocks where each M2+ (as the linkage) coordinates with four BIMligands. The (001) diffraction peaks of the Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs and Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (Figure 1b) both shift to a lower 2*θ* angle (from 9.17<sup>o</sup> to 9.02<sup>o</sup> ) compared to that of the bulk Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> and simulated M2BIM4, indicating an increased interlayer distance along the [001] direction of the Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> and Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs than that of the bulk Co2BIM4. The larger interlayer distance is mainly due to the small molecules (e.g., solvents, TEA, and PVP) attached on the adjacent layers (see details in Figure S2), which could prevent the adjacent layers from assembling to multilayer MOFs by the weak van der Waals forces[\[21\]](#page-9-19) and therefore facilitates the formation of ultra-thin 2D M2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs.

The morphologies of the synthesized Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, and bulk Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> were characterized by

**Figure 1.** (a, b) XRD patterns of the as-synthesized Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, and bulk Co2BIM4. TEM images of (c) Co2BIM4NSs and (d) Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. (e) HRTEM image of Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. (f) AFM image and (g) height profile of Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs.

TEM, HRTEM, and AFM. Based on the TEM and AFM results, the bulk Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> has a thick flake shape with a layered structure (Figure S3a), whereas the Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (Figure 1c, S3b-c) and Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (Figure 1d-e) both show a sheet-like morphology with plane dimensions of 10-30 and 20-50 nm, respectively. The EDS mapping analysis (Figure S4) exhibits that Co and Zn are uniformly distributed in the Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. It is worth mentioning that the T-Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> (i.e., a control sample of Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> synthesized without the use of PVP) shows obvious agglomeration (Figure S3d), suggesting that PVP is helpful to stabilize the Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. Moreover, the P-Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> (i.e., a control sample of Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> synthesized without the use of TEA) shows a bulk morphology with a particle size at the micrometer scale (Figure S3e), indicating that the TEA is important for restricting the growth of Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> as ultra-small nanosheets.[\[19\]](#page-9-18) The AFM image (Figure 1f) further shows the high dispersion of the as-prepared Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, and the height profiles (Figure 1g) reveal that the thickness of an individual Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NS is about 2 nm. According to the calculation based on the XRD result, the crystallographic interlayer distance between the (001) planes of M2BIM<sup>4</sup> is about 0.987 nm, indicating that the synthesized Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs are two-layer 2D MOF NSs (Figure S1a). Meanwhile, the introduction of Zn2+ barely affects either the crystalline structure or morphology of the fabricated CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. These results suggest that the ultra-small CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs have been successfully synthesized by the TEA-PVP *co*-assisted method and the cobalt content in the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs can be easily controlled by the introduction of Zn ions during the synthesis.

Theoretically, the ultra-small and ultra-thin MOF NSs could be converted to ultra-small metal nanoparticles through carbonization due to the spatial confinement effect.[\[22\]](#page-9-20) As shown in Figure S1b, a simulated 20×20 cell two-layer Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NS with the plane dimension of about 30 nm is used to represent the assynthesized Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs. Assuming that 6400 Co atoms

**Figure 2.** (a, b) TEM and (c) HRTEM images of bulk Co@G, (d) TEM and (e, f) HRTEM images of Co@FLG-100, and (g) TEM and (h, i) HRTEM images of Co@FLG-40.

contained in this simulated Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NS aggregate to a single Co (space group *Fm3m*) nanoparticle, the diameter of this Co nanoparticle is only 6.76 nm, which is much smaller than that of the reported MOF-derived Co nanoparticles (20-50 nm).[\[9a,](#page-9-8) [23\]](#page-9-21) By partially replacing the Co ions with Zn ions in the Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, the size of the derived Co nanoparticles could be further reduced. For example, a 20×20 cell two-layer Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NS contains 2560 Co atoms, which would form a Co nanoparticle with a maximum diameter of 4.99 nm. Thus, we design and synthesize the ultra-small bimetallic Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs as the precursors for fabricating ultra-small Co nanoparticles encapsulated in the few-layer graphene to enhance the utilization efficiency of the Co metal.

The bulk Co2BIM4, CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (x≥0.4), and Co0.2Zn1.8BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs were thermally converted to the Co-N-C catalysts under Ar/H<sup>2</sup> atmosphere, which were denoted as bulk Co@G, Co@FLG-n (n represents the metal-basis atomic percentage of Co in the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, i.e., n = Co2+/(Co2++Zn2+)×100 = x/2×100), and low Co content Co-N-C (L-Co-N-C-10), respectively. The XRD results (Figure S5) suggest that the obtained Co@FLG-n and Co@G are Co/C composites without other impurity, indicating that the Zn was removed during the thermal treatment due to the low melting/boiling point of the metallic Zn nanocrystals. The morphologies of the bulk Co@G and Co@FLG-n were characterized by TEM and HRTEM, as shown in **Figure 2** and Figure S6. The bulk Co@G is composed of large-size Co nanoparticles with carbon nanotubes formed on the surface (Figure 2a). The TEM image of the bulk Co@G at a higher magnification (Figure 2b) shows that the diameter of the Co nanoparticles encapsulated in the carbon layer is above 20 nm and the thickness of the outer carbon layer is about 5-10 nm (Figure 2c), corresponding to 14-30 layers of graphene. Just as expected, the Co@FLG-100 (i.e., the atomic ratio of Co:Zn = 100:0 in the MOF precursor, Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs) and Co@FLG-40 (i.e., the atomic ratio of Co:Zn = 40:60 in the MOF precursor, Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs) reveals Co NDs with a much smaller size (compared to the Co nanoparticles in the bulk Co@G) that are homogeneously dispersed in the carbon matrix (Figure 2d and

g). The measured diameters of the Co NDs in the Co@FLG-100 (derived from Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs) are in the range of 2.0 to 8.0 nm with most of the Co NDs around 5.5 nm (Figure 2e and Figure S6a) and the Co NDs in the Co@FLG-40 (derived from Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs) are in the range of about 2.0 to 6.0 nm with most of the Co NDs around 4.1 nm (Figure 2h and Figure S6b). Attractively, the HRTEM images of Co@FLG-100 (Figure 2f) and Co@FLG-40 (Figure 2i) show that the carbon layers encapsulating the Co NDs are constructed by 2 to 5 layers of graphene (Figure 2f). Such a thin few-layer graphene shell could protect the Co NDs in aqueous electrolytes without masking the outward electron transport ability of the Co NDs. Furthermore, the Co@FLG-30, Co@FLG-20, and L-Co-N-C-10 with even lower Co contents (Figure S7) were also characterized by TEM. The TEM images in Figure S8a and b show that smaller Co NDs (compared to those in the Co@FLG-100 and Co@FLG-40) sparsely scatter in the Co@FLG-30 and Co@FLG-20. Meanwhile, some nanotubes form due to the existence of excessive carbon sources, which would weaken the electron donating ability of the Co NDs as the ORR catalyst. Finally, with an extremely low Co content or without Co, the L-Co-N-C-10 and N-C-0 no longer form the Co@C core-shell structure (Figure S8c and d).

It is known that the ORR on heterogeneous catalysts in aqueous electrolytes is a gas-liquid-solid three-phase reaction. Since the ORR mainly occurs on the surface of the catalyst, the ORR catalytic performance of the catalyst greatly depends on its surface composition. In order to clarify the atom distribution in the Co@FLG-40, HAADF-STEM study was performed. As shown in **Figure 3**a, the ultra-small Co NDs (bright spots) are homogeneously dispersed in the carbon framework. Unfortunately, it is hard to see the few-layer graphene shell in the HAADF image because the signal from the Co ND core is too strong. Besides, the appearance of numerous sphere-like hollow cages in the TEM image (marked by the yellow circles in Figure 2d) of Co@FLG-40 directly evidences the existence of the mesopores caused by the removal of a small fraction of the Co NDs that are incompletely covered by the graphene layer during the H2SO<sup>4</sup> washing process. Without the interference of the Co ND core, the HAADF-STEM image of the few-layer graphene shell of Co@FLG-40 shows bright spots at a singleatom size (Figure 3b), well corresponding to the isolated Co sites (e.g., single Co clusters and/or Co-N<sup>x</sup> sites).[\[24\]](#page-9-22) The external surface chemical compositions and bonding states of Co@FLG-40 were investigated by XPS. The XPS survey spectrum (Figure 3c) shows that the major elements on the surface of Co@FLG-40 are cobalt (1.16 at%), carbon (89.77 at%), oxygen (5.45 at%), and nitrogen (3.62 at%). The binding state of cobalt and nitrogen within M-N-C has been reported to be one of the most important factors for the ORR catalytic performance.[\[25\]](#page-9-23) In our case, the high-resolution Co 2p3/2 XPS spectrum of the Co@FLG-40 (Figure 3d) can be deconvoluted to three peaks at 778.3, 780.5, and 783.2 eV, which are attributed to Co<sup>0</sup> 2P3/2, Co-Nx, and Co satellites, respectively.[\[26\]](#page-9-24) The content of the high-performance catalytic site, Co-Nx, is calculated to be about 0.24 at%. The high-resolution N 1s XPS spectrum (Figure 3e) can be assigned to four different forms of N as previously reported, i.e. pyridinic-N (N-6, @398.4 eV), cobalt-nitrogen moieties (NCo-Nx, @399.3 eV), pyrrolic-N (N-5, 400.1 eV), and graphitic-N (N-Q, @401.2 eV).[\[27\]](#page-9-25) The amounts of NCo-Nx and N-6 are calculated (based on their peak areas) to be about 0.70 and 0.59 at%, respectively. The amount of N in Co-N<sup>x</sup> is about three times that of Co in Co-Nx, suggesting that one Co ion coordinates with three nitrogen atoms to form a CoN<sup>3</sup> site. The abundant N-Q could endow the Co@FLG-40 with a high electron conductivity during the ORR process. Meanwhile, the N-6 and Co-N<sup>x</sup> cause the inhomogeneous electron distribution in Co@FLG-40, which could reduce the adsorption energy of O<sup>2</sup> and then lower the overpotential of the ORR.[\[26\]](#page-9-24) The structural property of the carbon layer also affects the ORR catalytic performance of the M-N-C catalysts. Raman spectroscopy was used to analyze the defects of the carbon layer in the bulk Co@G, Co@FLG-100, and Co@FLG-40. As shown in Figure 3f, the Raman spectra of these samples all display three obvious peaks around 1320, 1580, and 2750 cm-1 , which are in accordance with the D band, G band, and 2D (also called G') band of carbon, respectively.[\[28\]](#page-9-26) It is well known that the D and G bands are related to the defective graphitic structure of the sp<sup>3</sup> phase and the ordered sp<sup>2</sup> -phase graphene layer, respectively. The intensity ratio of the D and G band (*ID*:*IG*) can be used to estimate the graphitic degree and the content of defects in carbon. As shown in Figure 3f, the *ID*:*I<sup>G</sup>* values of these samples are about 1, indicating that the lower Co content in Co@FLG-40 does not cause the a lower graphitic degree. This result supports that the carbon defects (which could work as the active sites for ORR) in the Co@FLG-40 is almost equal to that in the Co@FLG-100 or bulk Co@G.

**Figure** 3. (a, b) HAADF-STEM images of Co@FLG-40. (c) Survey, (d) highresolution Co 2p, and (e) high-resolution N 1s XPS spectra of Co@FLG-40. (f) Raman spectra of bulk Co@G, Co@FLG-100, and Co@FLG-40.

**Figure 4**. (a) N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherms and (b) pore size distribution (based on the adsorption curves) of bulk Co@G, Co@FLG-100, and Co@FLG-40.

The specific surface areas (SSAs) and pore distribution of the samples were obtained from the N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherms (**Figure 4**a). The Co@FLG-100 (410.2 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ) and Co@FLG-40 (543.1 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ) both display higher SSAs compared to the bulk Co@G (186.0 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ), demonstrating the superiority of our developed synthesis method for creating highly porous carbon-based catalysts with a high SSA. In addition, the N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherms of these three samples all belong to a type-IV isotherm with a hysteresis loop,[\[29\]](#page-9-27) indicating that the pore structures of these three samples consist of both micropores and mesopores. The larger hysteresis loop of Co@FLG-40 implies a higher mesopore content, which is beneficial for the transportation of the ions at the gas-liquid-solid interfaces during the ORR. The pore size distribution of these samples was further calculated from their nitrogen adsorption curves by using the Barret-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) theory. As shown in Figure 4b, the bulk Co@G shows a pore size mainly above 10 nm. In contrast, the Co@FLG-100 shows a pore size below 5 nm and the Co@FLG-40 owns more mesopores with diameters in the range of 2 to 10 nm. The high content of mesopores may not only increase the SSA but also enhance the mass transfer of both electrolyte and O<sup>2</sup> during the ORR.[\[30\]](#page-9-28)

The electrocatalytic properties of the bulk Co@G and Co@FLG-n toward the ORR were investigated by LSV using the RDE measurement in 0.1 M KOH aqueous electrolyte, as shown in **Figure 5**a. The ORR performance of Co@FLG-n is concluded in Figure 5b, which shows that the *E*1/2 (red line) and electron transfer number (blue line) of the ORR on the Co@FLG-n both decrease as the Co content decreases. Obviously, the Co@FLG-40 with the *E*1/2 of 0.824 V and electron transfer number of 3.80 (see details in Figure S9) exhibits the highest *j<sup>L</sup>* of 6.42 mA cm-2 (at 0.5 V vs. RHE and 1600 rpm) among all these samples, which is selected as a representative to compare with the commercial Pt/C (20%), bulk Co@G, and Co@FLG-100. As shown in Figure 5c, the *E*1/2 of Co@FLG-40 is 20 mV more positive than that of Co@G and 8 mV more positive than that of Pt/C, and only 16 mV more negative than that of Co@FLG-100 (0.841 V vs. RHE). It is worth mentioning that the *E*1/2 of Co@FLG-40 and Co@FLG-100 is also more positive than most of the recently reported Co-N-C catalysts for ORR.[\[11b\]](#page-9-29) As shown in Figure 5d, the Tafel slopes of the bulk Co@G (54 mV dec-1 ), Co@FLG-100 (53 mV dec-1 ), and Co@FLG-40 (57 mV dec-1 ) are lower than 60 mV dec-1 , indicating that the conversion of the absorbed \*OOH to \*O is the rate-determining step of the ORR on these catalysts.[\[31\]](#page-9-30) In addition, the much smaller Tafel slope of Co@FLG-100 (compared to that of the Pt/C) further indicates

**Figure 5**. ORR performance in oxygen-saturated 0.1 M KOH: (a) LSV curves and (b) ORR performance parameters of the Co@FLG-n, (c) LSV curves and (d) Tafel plots of Pt/C, bulk Co@G, Co@FLG-100 and Co@FLG-40. (e) RDE curves of Co@FLG-40 before and after cycling in the potential range of 0.15 to 1.05 V vs. RHE for 10000 cycles. (f) Stability test at 0.5 V vs. RHE of Pt/C and Co@FLG-40 measured at the rotation rate of 1600 rpm.

the better electron donating ability for the processes of \*O<sup>2</sup> to \*OOH and \*OOH to \*O, which could greatly lower the overpotential for ORR. The durability of the Co@FLG-40 was investigated by cycling in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH in the potential range from 0.15 to 1.05 V vs. RHE at the scan rate of 50 mV s-1 . The LSV curve (Figure 5e) of the Co@FLG-40 after 10000 cycles shows only a 9 mV negative-shift of the *E*1/2 and keeps 95% retention of the *jL*. Moreover, compared to the commercial Pt/C catalyst, the Co@FLG-40 displays much higher stability under the ORR conditions (Figure 5f) with a high retention of the ORR current density of 90.1% after being tested at 0.5 V vs. RHE for 86400 s (24 h) at the rotation rate of 1600 rpm, whereas the Pt/C only retains 71.2% of the ORR current after being tested for 14400 s (4 h) under the same conditions. The inset in Figure 5f shows the LSV curves of the Co@FLG-40 after being tested for 0, 4, 12, and 24 h, which display that the *j*<sup>L</sup> and *E*1/2 both decrease as the test time increase. After being tested for 24 h, the Co@FLG-40 shows only 10 mV negativeshift of *E*1/2, implying the ultrahigh stability of the catalytically active sites contained in the Co@FLG-40. The superior stability of the Co@FLG-40 is mainly due to its core-shell structure, in which the graphene layers tightly coating on the Co NDs could prevent the Co NDs from dissolving into the electrolyte under the ORR conditions. [\[32\]](#page-9-31) The Co@FLG-40 catalyst was further investigated in neutral and acidic electrolytes to verify its high stability and excellent catalytic performance toward the ORR. The LSV curves shows that the *E*1/2 of Co@FLG-40 is 90 mV

**Figure 6.** (a) LSV curves and (b) durability test of Pt/C and Co@FLG-40 in 1 M NaCl aqueous solution tested at a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. (c) Schematic illustration of a homemade Mg-air battery. (d) Discharge performance of the homemade Mg-air battery with Pt/C or Co@FLG-40 as the cathode.

**Figure 7**. (a) TEM image of ND-free-Co-N-C. (b) LSV curves of Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C at the rotation rate of 1600 rpm. (c) Tafel plots of the Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C. (d) Raman spectra of Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C.

more negative than that of Pt/C (**Figure 6**a), which is typical for Co-doped carbon materials in neutral electrolytes.[\[33\]](#page-9-32) Attractively, the Co@FLG-40 exhibits a much higher *j<sup>L</sup>* (4.8 mA cm-2 ) than that of Pt/C (3.4 mA cm-2 ) mainly due to its hierarchical pore structure with suitable O<sup>2</sup> transfer channels and multiple active sites for the absorption of O2. [\[34\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, the long-term stability test (Figure 6b) reveals the great durability of the Co@FLG-40 in 1 M NaCl aqueous electrolyte. Compared to Pt/C, the Co@FLG-40 shows an obviously improved current retention (82.1% vs. 67.3%) after being tested for 7200 s at 0.45 V vs. RHE. As shown in Figure S9e, the *E*1/2 of Co@FLG-40 is 0.67 V vs. RHE, which is 0.12 V lower than that of Pt/C in 0.1 M HClO<sup>4</sup> electrolyte. Nevertheless, the Co@FLG-40 displays ultrahigh stability with the current retention of 80% after being tested in acidic electrolyte for 7200 s (Figure S9f), which is superior than that of Pt/C (39%). This significant improvement is mainly attributed to the graphene "chainmail", which protects the Co NDs from direct contact with the electrolyte and in turn greatly inhibits the dissolution of Co. Finally, the Co@FLG-40 was equipped in a homemade Mg-air battery (Figure 6c) to further evaluate its ORR performance. As shown in Figure 6d, the Mg-air battery with the Co@FLG-40 catalyst shows a slightly lower operating

voltage than that with the Pt/C catalyst at current densities lower than 30 mA cm-2 , but displays a higher operating voltage under high current densities (≥ 40 mA cm-2 ), which is mainly due to the better O<sup>2</sup> adsorption ability of the defective carbon in Co@FLG-40 as designed. Besides, the Mg-air battery assembled with Co@FLG-40 shows a higher maximal power density of 66 mW cm-2 at 0.79 V compared to that assembled with Pt/C (55 mW cm-2 ), indicating that the Co@FLG-40 is a comparable or even superior substitute for Pt/C in Mg-air batteries.

To further clarify the practical role of the Co NDs in Co@FLG-40 for the ORR, the physical and electrochemical properties ofthe Co@FLG-40 were compared to those of a Co ND-free Co-N-doped carbon material (ND-free-Co-N-C, **Figure 7**a). This ND-free-Co-N-C possesses a similar Co-N<sup>x</sup> content as the Co@FLG-40 (Figure S10 and **Table 1**) and is derived from the Co-doped Zn2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (with a similar morphology of Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, Figure S11a). The physical and electrochemical properties of Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C are listed in **Table 2**. The ND-free-Co-N-C has a higher SSA and electrochemically accessible surface area (ECSA) compared to the Co@FLG-40. However, the ND-free-Co-N-C shows a much lower *j<sup>L</sup>* compared to the Co@FLG-40, and its *E*1/2 is 20 mV

**Table 1.** The contents of the Co species and four kinds of nitrogen species in the as-prepared Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C samples.

|                | Co at% | Co at% (Co-Nx) | N total at% | Graphitic-N at% | Pyridinic-N at% | NCo-Nx | Pyridone-N at% |
|----------------|--------|----------------|-------------|-----------------|-----------------|--------|----------------|
|                |        |                |             |                 |                 | at%    |                |
| Co@FLG-40      | 1.16   | 0.24           | 3.62        | 2.02            | 0.64            | 0.72   | 0.24           |
| ND-free-Co-N-C | 0.63   | 0.33           | 3.47        | 1.67            | 0.74            | 0.78   | 0.28           |

**Table 2.** Physical and electrochemical properties of Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C。

|                | SSA<br>(m2<br>-1<br>g<br>) | ECSA<br>(mF cm-2<br>) | jL<br>(mA cm-2<br>) | E1/2<br>(V vs. RHE) |
|----------------|----------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| Co@FLG-40      | 543                        | 7.27                  | 6.40                | 0.825               |
| ND-free-Co-N-C | 765                        | 9.14                  | 4.75                | 0.804               |

**Figure 8.** (a) Models of the OOH absorbed on Co-Nx-doped Gr and Co@Co-Nx-doped Gr. (b) Free energy diagram (ΔG) of every step for the ORR intermediates absorbed on Co-Nx-doped-Gr and Co@Co-Nx-doped-Gr configurations. (c) Deformation charge density and (d) electron localization function (ELF) images of Co-Nx-doped Gr and Co@Co-Nx-doped Gr (the red dots represent the electrons). (e) Schematic illustration of the d-orbital electron configuration of Co(II) in Co-N<sup>x</sup> and Co@Co-Nx.

more negative than that of Co@FLG-40 (Figure 7b). Furthermore, the Tafel plots were used to analyze the kinetics and mechanism of the ORR on Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C (Figure 7c). The Tafel slope is 63 mV dec-1 for the ND-free-Co-N-C, indicating that the rate-determining step of ORR on NDfree-Co-N-C is the second electron transfer process (i.e., the absorbed \*OOH to \*O) for a four-electron transfer ORR process,[\[31\]](#page-9-30) similar to that on the Pt/C catalyst (Figure 5d). Unlike the ND-free-Co-N-C, the Co@FLG-40 owns a lower Tafel slope, indicating a faster kinetic reaction rate of the second electron transfer process, mainly attributed to the better electrondonating ability of the Co NDs. Moreover, the Raman spectra (Figure 7d) show that the *I*G:*I*<sup>D</sup> of the Co@FLG-40 is much higher than that of the ND-free-Co-N-C, indicating a higher graphitic degree of the carbon component in the Co@FLG-40. In addition, the active sites of Co@FLG-40 and ND-free-Co-N-C are evidenced to be the Co-N<sup>x</sup> and pyridinic-N doped carbon as discussed in Section 9 in ESI (Figure S10 and S11b). Thus, the superior ORR performance of Co@FLG-40 compared to the NDfree-Co-N-C could only be attributed to the existence of the Co NDs. On one hand, the formed Co NDs could catalyse the rearrangement of the carbon atoms, which could greatly increase the graphitic degree and in turn enhance the electron transfer ability of the FLG shell in Co@FLG-40. On the other hand, the Co NDs encapsulated in the FLG shell could provide sufficient electrons for the breaking of the O=O/O-O bonds, which will be further discussed later.

Furthermore, the DFT calculations were used to estimate the contribution of Co NDs for ORR by selecting the Co-N<sup>x</sup> as the O<sup>2</sup> absorption site. For the DFT calculation, the Co@FLG-40 is simplified into a model of a Co4 cluster compositing with a CoN<sup>x</sup> codoped graphene layer (Co@Co-Nx-doped Gr)[\[35\]](#page-10-1) and a CoN<sup>3</sup> site is constructed to represent the Co-N<sup>x</sup> site because the amount of N in Co-N<sup>x</sup> is about three times that of Co in Co-N<sup>x</sup> according to the XPS result (Figure 3) and the CoN3-graphene has been reported as the most active sites for ORR in Co-N-C.[\[36\]](#page-10-2) To estimate the effect of the Co NDs, a Co-N<sup>x</sup> codoped graphene layer model (Co-Nx-doped Gr) without the Co4 cluster is also constructed for comparison. The adsorption energy of each intermediate species is listed in Table S4 and the absorption models are shown in Figure S12. Table S4 shows that the adsorption energy of O<sup>2</sup> on pure graphene (Gr) is 1.2 eV, indicating that the O<sup>2</sup> adsorption is not a spontaneous process. However, the adsorption energy of O<sup>2</sup> on Co-Nx-doped Gr sharply drops to -0.65 eV. This result supports that the Co-Nxdoped carbon matrix could enhance the O<sup>2</sup> absorbability, which could in turn lower the ORR overpotential. As reported in previous papers, the second electron transfer process (OOHads to Oads) is the rate-determining step of the ORR on the M-N-C catalysts with the Tafel slope of about 58 mV dec-1 **Figure 8**a show the structure models of the OOH adsorbed on the Co-Nxdoped-Gr and Co@Co-Nx-doped-Gr. The *d*O-O in \*OOH measured from the optimized Co-Nx-doped-Gr and Co@Co-Nxdoped-Gr models is 1.427 and 1.446 Å, respectively. The longer O-O bond indicates a lower activation energy for breaking the O-O bond. Figure 8b demonstrates the free energy diagram (ΔG) of every step for the ORR intermediates absorbed on Co-Nxdoped-Gr and Co@Co-Nx-doped-Gr configurations. It is obvious that all the reaction steps on both Co-Nx-doped-Gr and Co@Co-Nx-doped-Gr are thermodynamically downhill except for the step of O2\* to \*OOH. The Δ*G* of O2\* to \*OOH on Co@Co-Nx-doped-Gr (0.78 eV) is much lower compared to that on Co-Nx-doped-Gr (1.12 eV). Moreover, the activation energy (*E*a2) of the step of \*OOH to \*O is calculated by the TS search task in DMol<sup>3</sup> program as listed in Table S4. The total additional energy (Δ*G*1+*E*a2) for the spontaneous reduction of \*O<sup>2</sup> to H2O on Co@Co-Nx-doped-Gr configuration is 1.11 eV, which is much lower than that (1.53 eV) on the Co-Nx-doped-Gr configuration, mainly attribute to the increased charge density of the absorbed O atom as shown in the deformation charge density image (Figure 8c). The electron localization function mapping (Figure 8d) further evidences that the electron from the Co4 cluster could penetrate the carbon layer and enhance the electron density of the Co-N<sup>x</sup> doped Gr. This result indicates that the Co4 nanocluster is conducive for the ORR by facilitating the protonation of oxygen absorbed at the Co-N<sup>x</sup> site due to the electron donating effect (Figure 8d). Figure 8e further illustrates the effect of the increased electron density on the Co-N<sup>x</sup> sites. In detail, the unpaired electron in the *e*<sup>g</sup> orbitals ( and ) of the Co(II) ion is considered as the most active electron for the ORR due to the similar energy level of in Co(II) and the π antibonding orbital in O2. [\[37\]](#page-10-3) Under a small activation potential (- *E*1), the overall orbital energy of Co(II) could be elevated and the electron in the orbital could spontaneously transits to the π antibonding orbital of O2, reducing O2. In the configuration of Co@FLG, the strong electron-donating ability of the metallic Co NDs can significiantly enhance the electron density around the Co(II) of the Co-N<sup>x</sup> sites in the Co-N<sup>x</sup> codoped graphene layer, which could raise the energy level of the *e*<sup>g</sup> orbital of Co(II) so that a smaller activation potential (*E*2<*E*1) would be needed for breaking the O=O/O-O bonds. Thus, the promoted catalytic

performance of the Co@FLG-40 can be ascribed to the following reasons. Similar to other reported M-N-C materials,[\[5c,](#page-9-33) [25a\]](#page-9-23) the Co-N<sup>x</sup> and pyridinic-N in the graphene layer of the Co@FLG-40 are the active sites for the ORR. Besides, the Co NDs tightly encapsulated in the graphene layer could maximize the electron spillover capability of Co NDs and provide sufficient electrons to enhance the ability of these active sites in the graphene shell to break the O-O/O=O bonds.

## **Conclusions**

In summary, ultra-small and ultrathin CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs with a thickness of about 2 nm are prepared by a simple TEA-PVP *co*assisted bottom-up method. Subsequently, sub-5 nm Co@FLG is derived from the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs precursor. The ultra-small Co NDs could significantly improve the Co utilization. The asprepared Co@FLG-40 achieves a high *j<sup>L</sup>* of 6.42 mA cm-2 (@0.5 V vs. RHE and 1600 rpm) and a *E*1/2 of 0.824 V, which is superior compared to the commercial 20% Pt/C catalyst (*jL*=5.8 mA cm-2 and *E*1/2=0.816 V). The excellent ORR performance of the as-prepared Co@FLG-40 is attributed to the synergistic effect of the abundant active sites in the outer Co-N-codoped few-layer graphene shell and the strong electron-donating ability of the Co ND core. The experimental results show that the Co-N<sup>x</sup> and pyridinic-N-C sites are the main active sites in the graphene shell for the adsorption of O2, whereas the DFT calculation indicates that the Co NDs core can enhance the electron density in the graphene shell to minimize the protonation energy of \*O<sup>2</sup> and \*OOH and thus greatly enhances the catalytic performance of Co-N<sup>x</sup> and pyridinic-N-C. Moreover, the introduction of Co NDs can increase the graphitic degree of the carbon layers, which is also beneficial to the electrocatalysis of the ORR. This research provides a new thought to boost the catalytic performance of M-N-C for ORR by regulating the adsorption of O<sup>2</sup> and breaking of the O=O/O-O bonds..

#### **Experimental Section**

#### **Preparation of CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs.**

To prepare the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, a Co2+ xZn2+ 2-x-triethylamine (Co2+ xZn2+ 2-x-TEA, 0≤x≤2) complex solution was first prepared by dissolving 1.25x mmol of Co(NO3)2·6H2O (Sinopharm, >98.5%), 1.25(2-x) mmol of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O (Sinopharm, >99.0%) and 10.0 mmol of TEA (Sinopharm, >99.0%) in 50 mL of methanol (Sinopharm, >99.0%) with 0.5 g of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, Sinopharm, >98.0%) as the stabilizer. In the meantime, a HTEA-BIM solution was prepared by dissolving 5.0 mmol of benzimidazole (HBIM, Sinopharm, >98%) and 5.0 mmol of TEA in a mixed solution of 30 mL of methanol and 20 mL of isopropanol. Then, the HTEA-BIM solution was quickly poured into the pre-prepared Co2+ xZn2+ 2-x-TEA complex solution under ultrasonication and the resultant blue suspension was kept under ultrasonic treatment for 30 min. The CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs were collected from the suspension by centrifugation, washed with methanol for three times, and dried in vacuum at room temperature for 24 h. For comparison, the bulk Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> was prepared by using the same method without the use of TEA and PVP. In addition, the Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> prepared by using the same method with either TEA or PVP was named T-Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> and P-Co2BIM4, respectively.

**Preparation of Co@FLG, low Co content Co-N-C (L-Co-N-C), and nitrogen doped carbon (N-C) from CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs**

Co@FLG-n, L-Co-N-C-n and N-C-n (n represents the metal-basis atomic percentage of Co in the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> precursor, i.e., n = Co2+/(Co2++Zn2+)×100=x/2×100) were prepared through carbonization of the as-prepared CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (2 ≥ x ≥ 0.6), CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs (0<x<0.6), and Zn2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs, respectively. In a typical procedure, 0.5 g of the CoxZn2-xBIM<sup>4</sup> NSs was placed in a tube furnace and annealed at 350 <sup>o</sup>C for 1 h and then 800 <sup>o</sup>C for 2 h in an Ar/H<sup>2</sup> (90%/10% v/v) atmosphere with the heating rate of 5 <sup>o</sup>C min-1 . The carbonized material was washed with 50 mL of 0.5 M H2SO<sup>4</sup> aqueous solution to remove the Co nanoparticles that were not fully covered with the carbon layer. Then, the carbonized material was washed with ethanol and DI water, respectively, for three times, and dried at 60 <sup>o</sup>C in an oven for 5 h to obtain Co@FLGn, L-Co-N-C-n, and N-C-0. In the Co@FLG, the Co mainly exists in the form of Co nanodots wrapped in the graphene layers. In the L-Co-N-C-10, low-content Co is uniformly distributed in the nitrogen doped carbon matrix. The N-C-0 is derived from the Zn2BIM<sup>4</sup> NSs without any Co. For comparison, the large Co nanoparticles wrapped with a thick graphitic carbon layer (Co@G) was derived from the as-prepared bulk Co2BIM<sup>4</sup> by using the same carbonization treatment.

#### **Characterizations**

The crystalline structures and morphologies of the prepared samples were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Rigaku 2550 with Cu K*α* radiation (λ=0.15418 nm)), field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, FEI Nova nanoSEM 230) equipped with an energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) system at an accelerating voltage of 15 kV, and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM, JEOL JEM 2100F) operated at 200 kV. The high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) image and EDS mapping analysis were obtained using a spherical aberration corrected scanning transmission electron microscope (STEM, FEI Titan G2 60-300) equipped with an EDS system operated at 300 kV. The thickness of the samples was determined using an atomic force microscope (AFM, Veeco Multimode). The surface chemical composition of the samples was characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Thermo Fisher ESCALAB 250Xi) with an Al Kα source (λ=1486.6 eV). The binding energy of the measured XPS spectra was calibrated referring to the adventitious C 1s peak at 284.6 eV and the peaks were fitted by using the XPSPEAK software. The pore structure and specific surface area of the samples were calculated from the nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms measured at 77 K (Micromeritics, ASAP 2020). The UV-vis absorption spectra were recorded on a UV-vis spectrophotometer (UV-1780, Shimadzu) at room temperature with QS-grade quartz cuvettes. The Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra were collected on a Nicolet iS10 FT-IR spectrometer (Thermo Fisher) in the spectral range of 400-4000 cm-1 using the KBr disk method. To prepared the KBr-diluted sample pellet for the FT-IR measurement, 1 mg of the sample was mixed with 100 mg of KBr (FT-IR grade, ≥99.5%, Acros Organics) and the resulted powdery mixture was pressed under 5 MPa pressure to form a pellet with a thickness of about 0.1 mm.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

The ORR catalytic activities of the samples were characterized by rotating-disk-electrode (RDE, Metrohm Autolab) measurements in a standard three-electrode electrochemical cell (PMMA reactor) with an Ag/AgCl electrode (saturated KCl solution) as the reference electrode and a graphite rod as the counter electrode on a PGSTAT 204 potentiostat (Metrohm Autolab). For the RDE measurements, a glassy carbon (GC, diameter=5 mm) RDE was pre-treated according to a reported method.[\[38\]](#page-10-4) The catalyst ink was prepared by mixing the synthesized catalyst (6 mg), Nafion solution (5 wt%, 50 μL), and ethanol (950 μL) under ultrasonication for 30 min. Then, 8 μL of the prepared ink

was loaded onto the GC RDE electrode by the dropping-coating method[\[5c\]](#page-9-33) . Finally, the loaded GC RDE electrode was dried under ambient conditions.

The synthesized catalyst was tested in both 0.1 M KOH and 1 M NaCl electrolytes. The cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves were tested at a scan rate of 10 mV s-1 in the electrolyte saturated with N<sup>2</sup> or O2. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves used to estimate the ORR performance were collected in the O2-saturated electrolytes with different rotating rates from 425 to 1600 rpm in the potential range of 0.2 to -0.9 V vs. Ag/AgCl at a scan rate of 10 mV s-1 .

#### **Mg-air battery tests**

A Mg-air battery was assembled by using a homemade air electrode as the cathode, a piece of Mg alloy (AZ31) as the anode, and 1 M NaCl aqueous solution as the electrolyte. The cathode was designed to be a three-layer structure including the catalyst layer, current collector layer (Ni foam, 25 mm×60 mm×1.5 mm), and gas diffusion layer (Carbon black/PTFE (7:3 w:w), Midea Bus Group). The catalyst layer was prepared as follows. About 20 mg of the as-prepared catalyst (or 20% Pt/C, J&M), 20 mg of active carbon, and 20 mg of Vulcan XC-72R carbon (Cabot Corporation) were mixed in 10 mL of ethanol and then 70 mg of PTFE emulsion (10 wt%) was added. The mixture was stirred at 80 <sup>o</sup>C until the ethanol was evaporated. The resultant paste was rolled to a film (2 cm×2 cm×0.02 cm) and pressed to one side of the nickel foam. The gas diffusion layer was attached to the catalyst layer by applying a pressure of 10 MPa for 2 min. The obtained three-layer structured cathode was sintered at 180 <sup>o</sup>C in air for 5 h. The power density of the Mg-air battery was tested by a multichannel battery testing system (CT2001A, Wuhan LAND electronics Co., Ltd) and the linear polarization curve of the Mg-air battery was recorded on a CHI660D electrochemical workstation (Shanghai Chenhua Instrument Co., Ltd.).

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. 51772332), the Science and Technology Major Project of Hunan Province (grant no. 2016GK1003-1), the Hunan Provincial Science and Technology Plan Project (grant nos. 2018RS3008 and 2017TP1001), and the Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province (grant no. 2018JJ2485).

### **Keywords:** 2D materials • metal-organic frameworks • electrocatalysis • Mg-air battery • M-N-C

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[1] aQ. Lai, L. Zheng, Y. Liang, J. He, J. Zhao, J. Chen, *ACS Catal.*  **2017**, *7*, 1655-1663; bJ. Ma, C. Qin, Y. Li, F. Ren, Y. Liu, G. Wang, *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *430*, 244-251; cJ. Ma, G. Wang, Y. Li, C. Qin, F. Ren, *J. Mater. Eng. Perform.* **2019**, *28*, 2873-2880.
- <span id="page-9-2"></span><span id="page-9-1"></span>[2] M. Shen, C. Wei, K. Ai, L. Lu, *Nano Res.* **2017**, *10*, 1449-1470. [3] K. Strickland, E. Miner, Q. Jia, U. Tylus, N. Ramaswamy, W. Liang, M.-T. Sougrati, F. Jaouen, S. Mukerjee, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*,
- <span id="page-9-33"></span><span id="page-9-4"></span><span id="page-9-3"></span>7343. [4] Y. J. Sa, J. Woo, S. H. Joo, *Top. Catal.* **2018**, *61*, 1077-1100. [5] aP. Yin, T. Yao, Y. Wu, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, Z. Deng, G. Zhou, S. Wei, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 10800-10805; bC. Zhao, X. Dai, T. Yao, W. Chen, X. Wang, J. Wang, J. Yang, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8078-8081; cJ. Wang, Z. Huang, W. Liu, C. Chang, H. Tang, Z. Li, W. Chen, C. Jia, T. Yao, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*  **2017**, *139*, 17281-17284; dX. Dai, Z. Chen, T. Yao, L. Zheng, Y. Lin, W. Liu, H. Ju, J. Zhu, X. Hong, S. Wei, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Chemical communications* **2017**, *53*, 11568-11571.

- <span id="page-9-5"></span>[6] Y. Zhu, W. Sun, W. Chen, T. Cao, Y. Xiong, J. Luo, J. Dong, L. Zheng, J. Zhang, X. Wang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, 1802167.
- <span id="page-9-6"></span>[7] H. Zhang, G. Liu, L. Shi, J. Ye, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1701343.
- <span id="page-9-7"></span>[8] W. Zhu, K. Zhao, S. Liu, M. Liu, F. Peng, P. An, B. Qin, H. Zhou, H. Li, Z. He, *J. Energy Chem.* **2019**, *37*, 176-182.
- <span id="page-9-8"></span>[9] aA. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rosler, W. Xia, P. Weide, A. J. Botz, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 4087-4091; bJ. Guo, B. Chen, Q. Hao, J. Nie, G. Ma, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2018**, *456*, 959-966.
- <span id="page-9-9"></span>[10] aY. Peng, Y. Li, Y. Ban, H. Jin, W. Jiao, X. Liu, W. Yang, *Science*  **2014**, *346*, 1356-1359; bD. Sheberla, J. C. Bachman, J. S. Elias, C.-J. Sun, Y. Shao-Horn, M. Dinca, *Nat. Mater.* **2017**, *16*, 220-224.
- <span id="page-9-29"></span><span id="page-9-10"></span>[11] aG. Ye, K. Zhao, Z. He, R. Huang, Y. Liu, S. Liu, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, 15624-15633; bJ. Song, Y. Ren, J. Li, X. Huang, F. Cheng, Y. Tang, H. Wang, *Carbon* **2018**, *138*, 300-308; cJ. Wang, W. Liu, G. Luo, Z. Li, C. Zhao, H. Zhang, M. Zhu, Q. Xu, X. Wang, C. Zhao, Y. Qu, Z. Yang, T. Yao, Y. Li, Y. Lin, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 3375-3379.
- <span id="page-9-11"></span>[12] M. Zhao, Q. Lu, Q. Ma, H. Zhang, *Small Methods* **2017**, *1*, 1600030 n/a.
- <span id="page-9-12"></span>[13] J. Cong, H. Xu, M. Lu, Y. Wu, Y. Li, P. He, J. Gao, J. Yao, S. Xu, *Chem.-Asian J.* **2018**, *13*, 1485-1491.
- <span id="page-9-13"></span>[14] M. Zhao, Y. Huang, Y. Peng, Z. Huang, Q. Ma, H. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 6267-6295.
- <span id="page-9-14"></span>[15] P.-Z. Li, Y. Maeda, Q. Xu, *Chemical communications* **2011**, *47*, 8436-8438.
- <span id="page-9-15"></span>[16] M. J. Cliffe, E. Castillo-Martínez, Y. Wu, J. Lee, A. C. Forse, F. C. N. Firth, P. Z. Moghadam, D. Fairen-Jimenez, M. W. Gaultois, J. A. Hill, O. V. Magdysyuk, B. Slater, A. L. Goodwin, C. P. Grey, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 5397-5404.
- <span id="page-9-16"></span>[17] M. Xu, S. Yuan, X.-Y. Chen, Y.-J. Chang, G. Day, Z.-Y. Gu, H.-C. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8312-8319.
- <span id="page-9-17"></span>[18] aR. Makiura, S. Motoyama, Y. Umemura, H. Yamanaka, O. Sakata, H. Kitagawa, *Nat. Mater.* **2010**, *9*, 565-571; bR. Sakamoto, K. Hoshiko, Q. Liu, T. Yagi, T. Nagayama, S. Kusaka, M. Tsuchiya, Y. Kitagawa, W.-Y. Wong, H. Nishihara, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6713; cS. Motoyama, R. Makiura, O. Sakata, H. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 5640-5643.
- <span id="page-9-18"></span>[19] M. Zhao, Y. Wang, Q. Ma, Y. Huang, X. Zhang, J. Ping, Z. Zhang, Q. Lu, Y. Yu, H. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 7372-7378.
- [20] aT. Rodenas, I. Luz, G. Prieto, B. Seoane, H. Miro, A. Corma, F. Kapteijn, F. X. Llabrés i Xamena, J. Gascon, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, 48-55; bY. Wang, L. Li, L. Yan, X. Gu, P. Dai, D. Liu, J. G. Bell, G. Zhao, X. Zhao, K. M. Thomas, *Chem. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 3048-3059; cS. Liu, J. Zhou, H. Song, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1800569.
- <span id="page-9-19"></span>[21] K. Zhao, S. Liu, G. Ye, Q. Gan, Z. Zhou, Z. He, *J. Mater. Chem. A*  **2018**, *6*, 2166-2175.
- <span id="page-9-20"></span>[22] Y. Xu, W. Tu, B. Zhang, S. Yin, Y. Huang, M. Kraft, R. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1605957.
- <span id="page-9-21"></span>[23] X. Sun, A. I. Olivos-Suarez, L. Oar-Arteta, E. Rozhko, D. Osadchii, A. Bavykina, F. Kapteijn, J. Gascon, *ChemCatChem* **2017**, *9*, 1854- 1862.
- <span id="page-9-22"></span>[24] Z. He, M. Li, Y. Li, J. Zhu, Y. Jiang, W. Meng, H. Zhou, L. Wang, L. Dai, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *281*, 601-610.
- <span id="page-9-23"></span>[25] aM. Li, L. Bai, S. Wu, X. Wen, J. Guan, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 1722-1727; bX. Liu, W. Li, S. Zou, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 17067-17074.
- <span id="page-9-24"></span>[26] Z.-L. Wang, X.-F. Hao, Z. Jiang, X.-P. Sun, D. Xu, J. Wang, H.-X. Zhong, F.-L. Meng, X.-B. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 15070-15073.
- <span id="page-9-25"></span>[27] aZ. He, Y. Jiang, Y. Wei, C. Zhao, F. Jiang, L. Li, H. Zhou, W. Meng, L. Wang, L. Dai, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *259*, 122-130; bQ. Gan, J. Xie, Y. Zhu, F. Zhang, P. Zhang, Z. He, S. Liu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Inter.* **2019**, *11*, 930-939.
- <span id="page-9-26"></span>[28] Z. He, Y. Jiang, J. Zhu, H. Wang, Y. Li, H. Zhou, W. Meng, L. Dai, L. Wang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, *279*, 279-288.
- <span id="page-9-27"></span>[29] K. Zhao, Z. Xu, Z. He, G. Ye, Q. Gan, Z. Zhou, S. Liu, *J. Mater. Sci.*  **2018**, *53*, 13111-13125.
- <span id="page-9-28"></span>[30] S. Li, C. Cheng, H.-W. Liang, X. Feng, A. Thomas, *Adv. Mater.*  **2017**, *29*, 1700707.
- <span id="page-9-30"></span>[31] S. Sankarasubramanian, J. Seo, F. Mizuno, N. Singh, J. Prakash, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2017**, *121*, 4789-4798.
- <span id="page-9-31"></span>[32] J. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 2100-2104.
- <span id="page-9-32"></span>[33] aL. Xie, X. Li, B. Wang, J. Meng, H. Lei, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.*, *0*; bJ. Ran, X. Guo, P. Liu, S. Peng, X. Gao, D. Gao, *Nanotechnology* **2019**, *30*, 435701.

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[34] T. Zhang, Z. Tao, J. Chen, *Mater. Horiz.* **2014**, *1*, 196-206.
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>[35] S. Siqi, G. Jian, L. Yue, Z. Yan, W. Qu, J. Wangwei, O. Chuying, X. Ruijuan, *Chinese Phys. B* **2016**, *25*, 174-197.
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>[36] X. Sun, K. Li, C. Yin, Y. Wang, F. He, H. Tang, Z. Wu, *Phys. Chem.*
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>[37] Y. Mun, S. Lee, K. Kim, S. Kim, S. Lee, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 6254-6262.
- <span id="page-10-4"></span>[38] K. Vaik, D. J. Schiffrin, K. Tammeveski, *Electrochem. Commun.*  **2004**, *6*, 1-5.

**Ultra-small 2D CoxZn2-x(benzimidazole)<sup>4</sup> MOF nanosheets and their derived Co nanodots@Co-Ncodoped graphene for efficient oxygen reduction reaction**

## FULL PAPER

Sub-5 nm Co nanodots (NDs) wrapped by 2 to 5 layers of Co-N-codoped graphene (Co@FLG) are successfully obtained from the ultrasmall Co0.8Zn1.2BIM<sup>4</sup> nanosheets by spatial confinement effect. The ORR performance of the Co-N-C is greatly enhanced by the strong electrondonating ability from the Co ND core to the FLG shell to emerge the energy level of *e*g-obitial in Co(II)-N<sup>x</sup> active sites then decrease the protonation free energy of the adsorbed oxygen.

*Kuangmin Zhao, Suqin Liu\*, Guanying Ye, Xianli Wei, Yuke Su, Weiwei Zhu, Zhi Zhou, and Zhen He\** 

*Page No.1 – Page No.10*

**Ultra-small 2D CoxZn2 <sup>x</sup>(benzimidazole)<sup>4</sup> MOF nanosheets and their derived Co nanodots@Co-N-codoped graphene for efficient oxygen reduction reaction**