---
source: Zhao 等 - 2022 - Facile Synthesis of Surfactant‐Induced Platinum Nanospheres with a Porous Network Structure for High.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 45.199s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:14:56.672755Z
---

<www.chemasianj.org>

# **Facile Synthesis of Surfactant-Induced Platinum Nanospheres with a Porous Network Structure for Highly Effective Oxygen Reduction Catalysis**

Xiao Zhao, Liangyu Sun, Jialin Cai, Joey Chung-Yen Jung,\* Zhonghong Xia,\* Jiujun Zhang, and [Shiming](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-4961-819X) Zhang\*[a]

**Abstract:** Developing a facile and eco-friendly method for the large-scale synthesis of highly active and stable catalysts toward oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) is very important for the practical application of proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). In this paper, a mild aqueous-solution route has been successfully developed for the gram-scale synthesis of three-dimensional porous Pt nanospheres (Pt-NSs) that are composed of network-structured nanodendrites and/or oval multipods. In comparison with the commercial Pt/C catalyst, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) demonstrates the dominant metallic-state of Pt and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) indicates the substantial improvement of conductivity for the Pt-NSs/C catalyst. The surfactant-induced porous network nanostructure improves both the catalytic ORR activity and durability. The optimal Pt-NSs/C catalyst exhibits a half-wave potential of 0.898 V (*vs.* RHE), leading to the mass activity of 0.18 AmgPt <sup>1</sup> and specific activity of 0.68 mAcm <sup>2</sup> which are respectively 1.9 and 5.7 times greater than those of Pt/C. Moreover, the highly-active Pt-NSs/C catalyst shows a superior stability with the tenable morphology and the retained 78% of initial mass activity rather than the severe Pt aggregation and the only 58% retention of the commercial Pt/C catalyst after 10000 cycles.

## **Introduction**

Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs) have received widespread attention as one of the most promising energy conversion devices because of their high energy/power densities and low/zero emission.[1,2] However, the sluggish kinetics of their cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and insufficient stability of ORR catalysts are the challenges, which may hamper the commercial application of PEMFCs.[3–5] To date, carbon-supported platinum nanoparticles (Pt/C) catalysts are still the most practical catalytic material, but their high-cost, scarce reserve and insufficient stability are still the limitations.[6–8] Therefore, exploring suitable technical routes to develop Pt nanostructures with high activity and excellent durability toward ORR is highly desirable for reducing the usage of Pt and realizing the long-time reliability.

To modify the traditional Pt/C catalyst of carbon-supported Pt nanoparticles with the size of ~3 nm for further improving their catalytic ORR performance, considerable efforts have been made to design various Pt nanostructures, such as zero-dimensional (0D) polyhedrons, one-dimensional (1D) nanorods, nanowires and nanotubes, two-dimensional (2D) nanoplates, nano-

[a] *X. Zhao, L. Sun, J. Cai, Prof. J. C.-Y. Jung, Dr. Z. Xia, Prof. J. Zhang, Prof. S. Zhang Institute for Sustainable Energy/College of Sciences Shanghai University 99 Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444 (P. R. China) E-mail: jjung@shu.edu.cn 10011493@shu.edu.cn smzhang@shu.edu.cn*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/asia.202200338>*

*100th Anniversary of Shanghai University-Chemistry (by invitation only)*

sheets, and nanobelts, as well as three-dimensional (3D) networks.[9–25] Among them, the 3D porous networks have shown great advantages in the aspects of catalytic activity and durability. The hollow and porous structure of such a 3D porous network can expose abundant lattice planes, provide more active surface area and enhance mass transfer. For example, Chen et al. designed a hollow Pt3Ni nanoframe which showed both high activity and durability.[26] Also, Tian et al. reported a bunched Pt Ni alloy nanocage in which the hollow and porous structure could be ascribed to its excellent performance.[27] Furthermore, the 3D network can have a well-set skeleton and meanwhile create more touchpoints with support for constructing a stable catalyst. Recently, Sievers et al. synthesized a Pt CoO network catalyst and studied its catalytic ORR property.[28] Hu et al. demonstrated that a 2D coplanar Pt carbon nanomesh with an interconnected Pt network could give an ultrastable catalytic ORR performance in fuel cells.[29] Besides, network architectures can generally be comprised of 1D nanostructure which can promote the catalytic ORR performance because of their higher conductivity and inherent anisotropic property. All of these can make the morphologically controllable Pt nanostructures especially the 3D porous networks as a kind of promising shapes for the ORR catalysis, arousing a great interest in catalyst synthesis.

For the controllable synthesis of Pt nanostructures, liquid phase reduction is a common route, generally in the organic solvents (e.g. Oleylamine, Octadecene, Dimethylformamide, etc.) in the temperature range of 100~300°C.[30,31] Sometimes, the successful shape control needs the help of inductive/ capped agents such as carbonyl compounds.[32–34] However, these above-mentioned synthesis routes would have undesirable shortcomings related to the environmentally unfriendly solvents, toxic reagents, and difficulty in scalable production. Additionally, solid phase pyrolysis can also be used as an effective preparation method. For example, the highly stable and efficient Pt—carbon nanomeshes reported by Hu et al. could be successfully constructed by annealing the solid mixture of Pt(II) acetylacetonate with potassium chloride at 270 °C for 2 hours. [29] Unfortunately, pyrolysis is a highly energy-consuming process. Therefore, developing the facile and eco-friendly methods for the large-scale synthesis of 3D porous Pt networks at mild conditions is challengeable but necessary.

In this work, we report a network-structured porous Pt nanospheres (Pt-NSs) composed with one-dimensional nanostructures. As illustrated in Scheme 1, the porous Pt-NSs are grown through a mild surfactant-induced method in the aqueous phase. The interweaved network can possess well-set skeleton and good conductivity. Meanwhile, the porous nanostructure can provide higher surface area and more active sites. In comparison of the commercial Pt/C catalyst, the resulted Pt-NSs/C catalyst shows the enhanced performance in both catalytic ORR activity and stability.

## **Results and Discussion**

In this study, an eco-friendly route (Scheme 1) has been proposed for the gram-scale synthesis of porous Pt nanospheres (Pt-NSs). Typically, a certain amount of cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) was thoroughly dissolved into the ultrapure water to form a transparent solution, in which the assembled CTAB micelles could be expectedly as soft-template for the growth of Pt-NSs. Hereafter, chloroplatinic acid ( $H_2PtCl_6 \cdot H_2O$ ) was added to turn the solution yellow. Then, under the temperature of 80 °C, introducing ascorbic acid (AA) could trigger this reaction, along with the formation of a black suspension.

Crucially, CTAB micelles play a key role in inducing the formation of Pt nanostructure. Without CTAB, only aggregated Pt nanoparticles can be seen from transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image, as shown in Figure S1a, with an average size distribution of ~7 nm. With CTAB, the porous Pt-NSs (Figure 1a, b) with an average particle size of ~55 nm are successfully induced by the CTAB micelles. Interestingly, each network-structured Pt-NS is composed by the interweaved nanodendrites and/or oval multipods. The average neck width

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration for the gram-scale synthesis of porous network Pt-NSs catalyst.

**Figure 1.** (a) TEM and (b) HRTEM images of the porous Pt-NSs with 40 mM CTAB surfactant in the preparation procedure, the inset in (b) is the selected area electron diffraction pattern; TEM images of (c) the prepared Pt-NSs/C and (d) the commercial Pt/C catalysts.

is about 3 nm as analyzed statistically. This 3D network will give a well-set body and create more touchpoints with support for a stable catalyst sample. Also, there are abundant micro/mesopores in the grid-enabled nanospheres (Figure 1a, b), which can provide higher surface area and further be responsible for the increased portion of electrochemically available active sites through electrolyte wetting of the physical surface. From highresolution TEM (HRTEM) image in Figure 1b, there are different lattice fringes and the lattice spacing of 0.227 nm should be corresponding to the predominant Pt (111) facet. Meanwhile, the polycrystalline structure of Pt-NS can be consistent with the selected area electronic diffraction pattern (inset of Figure 1b). Generally, some high index facets such as (311) would be expected to grow in the Pt-based nanostructure, [27] which are greatly ascribed to the high catalytic activity. Furthermore, the high-performance carbon supported electrocatalyst (Pt-NSs/C) can be obtained by physically mixing Pt-NSs with XC-72R carbon black in which the porous Pt-NSs are individually anchored on the surface of carbon black (Figure 1c). By contrast, in the commercial Pt/C catalyst, the uniform Pt nanoparticles of ~3 nm can be found as shown in Figure 1d.

The crystallographic structures of the two Pt catalysts were further analyzed by using X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Figure 2a, XRD pattern of the as-prepared Pt-NSs/C is compared with the commercial Pt/C. Typically, the diffraction peaks located at  $20\!\approx\!39.85^\circ$ ,  $46.30^\circ$ ,  $67.65^\circ$ ,  $81.47^\circ$ ,  $85.98^\circ$  can be indexed to the corresponding (111), (200), (220), (311), (222) planes of the face centered cubic Pt crystal structure (JCPDF No.04-0802), respectively. The diffraction peaks of Pt-NSs/C behave higher intensity and move slightly to higher degrees

Figure 2. (a) XRD patterns and the yellow vertical line at the bottom represents standard card of Pt (JCPDF No.04-0802); (b) Pt 4f XPS spectra for the as-prepared porous Pt-NSs/C and commercial Pt/C catalysts.

relative to those of Pt/C, indicating further crystallization of Pt and thus the reduction in lattice constant and the particle size increase.[35]

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed for examining the surface compositions of catalysts and analyzing the electronic state of Pt. The full range XPS analysis (Figure S2) confirms that Pt, C, and O elements co-exist in the two samples. From the high-resolution Pt 4f XPS spectra (Figure 2b), the binding energies for both Pt  $4f_{7/2}$  and Pt  $4f_{5/2}$ peaks in the as-prepared Pt-NSs/C show about 0.4 eV negative shift in comparison with those in the commercial Pt/C, indicating less Pt oxide formation in Pt-NSs/C relative to Pt/C. Also, this similar phenomenon was also observed by Hu et al. in investigating the 2D coplanar Pt-carbon nanomeshes. [29] Furthermore, the Pt 4f peaks are deconvoluted into two different states of metallic (Pt<sup>0</sup>) and oxydic (Pt<sup>x+</sup>). The proportion of Pt<sup>0</sup> in Pt-NSs/C is 63% which is higher than that of 52% in Pt/C.

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements of Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C catalysts were performed at 0.85 V (vs. RHE) and the corresponding Nyquist plots are shown in Figure 3. The same electrochemical system results in the very similar electrolyte solution resistance. Typically, the diameter of Nyquist semicircle associated with the charge-transfer of the reduction process from  $O_2$  to  $H_2O$  is about 27 and 29  $\Omega$  for the electrodes modified with Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C, respectively. The lower charge transfer resistance indicates the substantial improvement of conductivity of Pt-NSs/C. The fast charge and ion transfer is one of the most important requirements of a good electrocatalyst. In this case, the formed porous network

Figure 3. EIS Nyquist plots of Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C catalysts.

nanostructure is expected to be able to enhance the ORR electrocatalysis of Pt-NSs/C catalyst.

The electrocatalytic ORR performance of the porous Pt-NSs/ C was evaluated with commercial Pt/C as a baseline by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and ORR polarization curves obtained from 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solution saturated with Ar and O<sub>2</sub>, respectively. According to the CV curves (Figure 4a), the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) can be calculated by integrating hydrogen adsorption/desorption region after double-layer correction and assuming a nominal charge of 210 µC cm<sup>-2</sup> for a monolayer of H atom. The values of ECSA for Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C are 26.06 and 79.01  $\text{m}^2\text{g}_{\text{Pt}}^{-1}$ , respectively. The higher ECSA of commercial Pt/C catalyst can be reasonable for the smaller Pt nanoparticle size of ~3 nm. Although the porous Pt-NSs/C catalyst shows the lower ECSA, exhilaratingly it can exhibit a superior ORR activity. As can be seen in Figure 4b, the halfwave potential for Pt-NSs/C is 0.898 V, which positively shifts ~24 mV relative to that of commercial Pt/C (0.874 V). As well, the higher catalytic ORR activity of Pt-NSs/C might be persuasive from more positive reduction peak (Figure 4a), due to the weaker binding strength of the adsorbed oxygen intermediates on catalyst surface. [36,37] The rich Pt facets from Figure 1b and its inset would be responsible for the enhanced performance, which can be also perceived from the characteristic hydrogen-region peaks. Moreover, it is the abundant micro/meso-pores that can greatly accelerate the ORR kinetics by the increased exposure of electrolyte wetting of Pt surface area. In order to obtain the optimal Pt-NSs/C catalyst, a series of synthesis parameters were adjusted, such as different concentrations of CTAB (Figure S1), surfactants (Figure S3), reaction times (Figure S4), reductants (Figure S5) and reaction atmospheres (Figure S6). In the absence of surfactant, as can be seen from Figure S1a, the aggregated Pt nanoparticles with an average particle diameter of ~7 nm has a poor capacity of catalyzing ORR. Once introducing the CTAB surfactant, the aggregated nanoparticles change to the porous nanospheres

Figure 4. Electrochemical performance of Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C catalysts: (a) CV curves. (b) ORR polarization curves. (c) the corresponding Tafel plots and slopes, and (d) mass activity and specific activity before and after ADTs of 10000 cycles

(Figure S1b) and the resulted Pt-NSs/C catalyst can show enhanced catalytic ORR activity. Typically, it can be found the largest CV area (Figure S1c) and the highest ORR activity (Figure S1d) at a 40 mM CTAB concentration in the range of 20~80 mM. Subsequently, Figure S3 gives the results by using different surfactants. Although there is the very similar porous network morphology (Figure 1a and Figure S3a, b), AA-induced catalyst can have the best electrochemical performance than those by Pluronic® F-127 (F127) and sodium dodecylsulfonate (SDS). In comparison with the sample prepared by SDS with an average size of ~96 nm, the Pt nanospheres prepared by using F127 as a surfactant shows an average diameter of ~52 nm (Figure S3c) and a more open pore structure which can expose more surface area.

As a matter of course, reaction time needs to be concerned, especially for large-scale industrial production. For this study, it will be the most appropriate for reacting 4 hours from Figure S4. Moreover, different reductants were attempted for the comparison. From the results in Figure S5, it can be seen that both of the strong reductants of sodium borohydride (NaBH<sub>4</sub>) and hydrazine hydrate  $(N_2H_4\cdot H_2O)$  are unbeneficial for the growth of nanospheres. The inhomogenous nanospheres with larger sizes can be obtained by N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>·H<sub>2</sub>O but the irregular bulks by NaBH<sub>4</sub>, both of which exhibit low catalytic activity. Also, we investigated the influence of different reaction atmospheres (Figure S6). On the premise of maintaining the similar morphology, air with a certain amount of O<sub>2</sub> can help improve the ORR activity. This phenomenon would be reasonable for that O<sub>2</sub> can combine with Cl<sup>−</sup> introduced by H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O to create a wellknown Cl<sup>-</sup>/O<sub>2</sub> oxidative etchant, which will finely carve a porous Pt network. However, under the atmosphere of O<sub>2</sub>, the massive Cl<sup>-</sup>/O<sub>2</sub> pair can inevitably disturb the reaction system, resulting in a declined catalytic activity. [38,39]

To better understand the intrinsic ORR activities of catalysts, the Koutecky-Levich theory was used to obtain the kinetic current density  $(j_k)$ , which is 5.39 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 2.91 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.9 V (vs. RHE) for Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C, respectively. Furthermore, the Tafel plots given in Figure 4c show a smaller slope of Pt-NSs/C (58 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) as compared with that of Pt/C (79 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), demonstrating the enhanced kinetics for the ORR. The mass activity (MA) and specific activity (SA) were calculated by normalizing the kinetic current with Pt-loading and ECSA. As a result, the porous Pt-NSs/C catalyst shows an MA of 0.18 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> and SA of 0.68 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which are 1.9 and 5.7 times higher than those of 0.095  $Amg_{Pt}^{-1}$  and 0.12  $mAcm^{-2}$ for the commercial Pt/C catalyst, respectively. By the further calculations, Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C can give the average electron transfer numbers of 3.99 and 3.96, respectively. Also, turnover frequency (TOF), which can refer to the activity per each surface Pt atom, was used to evaluate electrocatalytic ability. And the TOF values of Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C were  $52.626 \times 10^{-20}$  and  $9.161 \times$ 10<sup>-20</sup> A atom<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, respectively.

From the practical viewpoint of a highly-active electrocatalyst, the accelerated durability tests (ADTs) can be done through a continuous potential cycling for 10000 cycles between 0.6 and 1.1 V in an  $O_2$ -saturated 0.1 M HClO $_4$  solution. As shown in Figure 5, although both of the catalysts show the

Figure 5. Durability of Pt-NSs/C and Pt/C catalysts: (a, b) CV curves and (c, d) ORR polarization curves before and after 10000 cycles of potential cycling between 0.6 and 1.1 V in 0.1 M  $HClO_4$  solution.

decrescent CV area and declined ORR activity after ADTs, there is a lesser decay for Pt-NSs/C in comparison with Pt/C. The ECSA of Pt-NSs/C undergoes 19% loss, but 28% for Pt/C (Figure 5a, b). From the aspect of half-wave potential, the porous Pt-NSs/C catalyst changes to 0.889 V, a negative shift of only 9 mV (Figure 5c). Comparatively, the commercial Pt/C catalyst weakens to 0.850 V, which downshifts 24 mV (Figure 5d). After ADTs (Figure 4d), the MA of Pt-NSs/C loses only 22%, while the Pt/C can lose 42%. Also, the SA of Pt-NSs/C after the durability test only attenuate by 3% to reach 0.66 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, but a 20% decline for Pt/C. These results suggest the excellent electrochemical stability of the porous Pt-NSs/C catalyst, which should be ascribed to the well-set skeleton of 3D network Pt-NSs as well as the abundant touchpoints between network-structured Pt-NSs and carbon support.

Indeed, for the as-prepared Pt-NSs/C catalyst, TEM images before (Figure 1c) and after (Figure S7a) ADTs clarify that the morphology and size of the porous nanospheres retain well, benefited from the indestructible network. However, in the commercial Pt/C catalyst, the pony-size and well-dispersed Pt nanoparticles become large and even some agglomerate severely into irregular bulks after ADTs (Figure S7b).

#### Conclusion

In summary, the gram-scale synthesis of porous Pt nanospheres with a network structure has been realized by using a simple surfactant-induced method in aqueous solution. The surfactant assembled soft-template leads to the formation of spherical porous network, in comparison with the aggregated irregular nanoparticles in the absence of surfactant. The resulted Pt-NSs/C catalyst shows a superior catalytic ORR activity to the commercial Pt/C catalyst because of the abundant micro/mesopores and rich Pt facets. Meanwhile, due to the well-set three-dimensional network, the as-prepared Pt-NSs/C catalyst also

shows excellent electrochemical stability. This study has developed a valuable eco-friendly route with mild experimental conditions for synthesis of the high-performance Pt-based catalysts.

### **Experimental Section**

#### Synthesis of carbon-supported porous Pt nanospheres

In a typical synthesis of porous Pt nanospheres (Pt-NSs), cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) (40 mM) was dissolved into 8 mL ultrapure water in a vial under sonication, followed by adding 200 μL H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (77 mM) aqueous solution to form a precursor solution. Then, the freshly prepared ascorbic acid (AA) aqueous solution (0.9 mL, 30 mM) was injected into this solution for 4 hours of reaction at the temperature of 80 °C under air. The Pt-NSs product was then collected by centrifugation and washed with an ethanol/ultrapure water mixture (v/v=3:1) for four times. After that, the obtained black precipitate was mixed with some XC-72R carbon black in ethanol by sonicating for 2 hours and then thoroughly drying at 60°C. To obtain the carbon supported electrocatalyst (Pt-NSs/C) with an accurate Pt loading of 20 wt%, the fairly strict weighing steps were implemented for the exactweight Pt-NSs product and XC-72R carbon black. Also, for the gram-grade synthesis of Pt-NSs/C catalyst, we did the 50-fold or more magnification experiments in a glass bottle of 1000 mL, as illustrated in Scheme 1. Confidently, the yield of one-time sample could exceed 80%. For the optimal results, the preparation was also conducted by using different surfactants, CTAB concentrations, reaction times, as well as reductants and reaction atmospheres. As a comparison, Pt nanoparticles (Pt-NPs) and the corresponding carbon supported electrocatalyst (Pt-NPs/C) were also prepared in the absence of surfactants with other reaction conditions being kept at the same.

#### Physical characterizations

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) were conducted on a JEOL JEM 2100F at an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was conducted on D/ MAX2200 operating at the voltage of 40 kV and the current of 40 mA with Cu K $\alpha$  radiation. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was measured at Thermo Scientific K-Alpha and the carbon peak at 284.8 eV was used as the standard.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

All electrochemical experiments were conducted at room temperature on a Pine rotating disk electrode (RDE) system with modulated speed rotator (MSR) connected to a bipotentiostat electrochemical workstation (WaveDriver 200, Pine Instrument Co. USA). The electrochemical cell was a three-electrode configuration with 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> aqueous solution as the electrolyte. A Pt foil (1× 1 cm<sup>2</sup>) was used as the counter electrode and a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) was used as the reference electrode separated by a Luggin capillary. All potentials in this work were calibrated with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The working electrode was a catalyst-coated glassy carbon RDE with 5 mm in diameter. For the preparation of the working electrode, the asprepared Pt-NSs/C catalyst (5 mg) was dispersed into a 1 mL Nafion®/isopropyl (1 mL 5 wt% Nafion mixed with 49 mL isopropyl) under ultrasonication for 30 minutes to form a homogeneous ink. Then, 6 µL of the catalyst ink was carefully dropped onto the polished and washed bare RDE to make a uniform thin catalyst layer. For a comparison, the electrode preparation of commercial 20 wt% Pt/C (from Johnson Matthey Corporation) was also carried out at the same way. The Pt loading for various catalysts of Pt-NSs/C, Pt-NPs/C and commercial Pt/C was controlled at 30 µg cm<sup>-2</sup>.

The cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves were recorded in 0.1 M  $\rm HClO_4$  solution saturated by Ar with a potential scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. ORR performances were evaluated using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M  $\rm HClO_4$  aqueous solution with a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and an electrode rotation rate of 1600 rpm. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) results were obtained at 0.85 V (vs. RHE) in the frequency range between 0.1 Hz and 1000 kHz using a perturbation of 5 mV in the O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M  $\rm HClO_4$  electrolyte. The accelerated durability tests (ADTs) were conducted by applying potential cycling between 0.6 and 1.1 V (vs. RHE) in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M  $\rm HClO_4$  with a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> for 10000 cycles.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 21606149) and Shanghai Rising-Star Program (18QB1404400).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Oxygen reduction reaction · Pt nanospheres · Porous network structure · Surfactant-induced · Facile synthesis

- [1] K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. Bao, B. Xie, B. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. Fan, H. Wang, Z. Hou, S. Huo, N.-P. Brandon, Y. Yin, M.-D. Guiver, *Nature* **2021**, *595*, 361–369.
- [2] D. Wu, C. Peng, C. Yin, H. Tang, Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2020, 3, 466– 505.
- [3] S. Zaman, L. Huang, A.-l. Douka, H. Yang, B. You, B.-Y. Xia, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 17832–17852.
- [4] X.-X. Wang, J. Sokolowski, H. Liu, G. Wu, Chin. J. Catal. 2020, 41, 739–755.
- [5] M. Shao, Q. Chang, J.-P. Dodelet, R. Chenitz, Chem. Rev. 2016, 116, 3594–3657.
- [6] S. Xu, Y. Kim, J. Park, D. Higgins, S.-J. Shen, P. Schindler, D. Thian, J. Provine, J. Torgersen, T. Graf, T.-D. Schladt, M. Orazov, B.-H. Liu, T.-F. Jaramillo, F.-B. Prinz, Nat. Catal. 2018, 1, 624–630.
- [7] S. Zhang, M. Chen, X. Zhao, J. Cai, W. Yan, J.-C. Yen, S. Chen, Y. Yu, J. Zhang, Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2021, 4, 336–381.
- [8] S. Sarkar, S.-C. Peter, Chem. Asian J. 2021, 16, 1184-1197.
- [9] F. Kong, Z. Ren, M. Norouzi-Banis, L. Du, X. Zhou, G. Chen, L. Zhang, J. Li, S. Wang, M. Li, K. Doyle-Davis, Y. Ma, R. Li, A. Young, L. Yang, M. Markiewicz, Y. Tong, G. Yin, C. Du, J. Luo, X. Sun, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 4205–4214.
- [10] Z.-X. Wang, X.-Z. Yao, Y. Q. Kang, L.-Q. Miao, D.-S. Xia, L. Gan, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1902987–1902995.

- [11] H. Chen, R. Wu, P.-K. Shen, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2020, 8, 1520– 1526
- [12] E. Fidiani, G. Thirunavukkarasu, Y. Li, Y.-L. Chiu, S. Du, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 11874–11883.
- [13] Y. Feng, Z. Zhao, F. Li, L. Bu, Q. Shao, L. Li, J. Wu, X. Zhu, G. Lu, X. Huang, Nano Lett. 2021, 21, 5075–5082.
- [14] X. Xiong, Y. Liao, C. Du, W. Luo, S. Chen, ChemElectroChem 2016, 3, 2281–2287.
- [15] Y. Zhao, L. Tao, W. Dang, L. Wang, M. Xia, B. Wang, M. Liu, F. Gao, J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Small 2019, 15, e1900288.
- [16] F. Chang, Z. Bai, M. Li, M. Ren, T. Liu, L. Yang, C. J. Zhong, J. Lu, Nano Lett. 2020, 20, 2416–2422.
- [17] Y. Zhong, L. Huang, J. Zhang, D. Xiang, P. Li, X. Yuan, M. Zhu, Chem. Asian J. 2020, 15, 1736–1742.
- [18] H. Wang, S. Yin, C. Li, K. Deng, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, X. Li, H. Xue, L. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 1711–1717.
- [19] T.-J. Wang, H.-Y. Sun, Q. Xue, M.-J. Zhong, F.-M. Li, X. Tian, P. Chen, S.-B. Yin, Y. Chen, Sci. Bull. 2021, 66, 2079–2089.
- [20] P.-F. Yin, M. Zhou, J. Chen, C. Tan, G. Liu, Q. Ma, Q. Yun, X. Zhang, H. Cheng, Q. Lu, B. Chen, Y. Chen, Z. Zhang, J. Huang, D. Hu, J. Wang, Q. Liu, Z. Luo, Z. Liu, Y. Ge, X.-J. Wu, X.-W. Du, H. Zhang, Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, e2000482.
- [21] H. Lv, L. Sun, D. Xu, S. L. Suib, B. Liu, *Green Chem.* **2019**, *21*, 2367–2374.
- [22] Y. Wang, Z. Zhu, K. Xu, W. Guo, T. Yu, M. He, W. Wei, T. Yang, ACS ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2021, 4, 2118–2125.
- [23] N. Guo, H. Xue, A. Bao, Z. Wang, J. Sun, T. Song, X. Ge, W. Zhang, K. Huang, F. He, Q. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 13778–13784; Angew. Chem. 2020, 132, 13882–13888.
- [24] J. Ying, G. Jiang, Z.-P. Cano, Z. Ma, Z. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2018**, *236*, 359–367.
- [25] C. Li, H. Yu, S. Liu, Y. Xu, Z. Wang, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, Chem. Asian J. 2019, 14, 3397–3403.
- [26] C. Chen, Y. Kang, Z. Huo, Z. Zhu, W. Huang, H. L. Xin, J.-D. Snyder, D. Li, J.-A. Herron, M. Mavrikakis, M. Chi, K.-L. More, Y. Li, N.-M. Markovic, G.-A. Somorjai, P. Yang, V.-R. Stamenkovic, Science 2014, 343, 1339–1343.
- [27] X. Tian, X. Zhao, Y.-Q. Su, L. Wang, H. Wang, D. Dang, B. Chi, H. Liu, E. J. M-Hensen, X. W. D. Lou, B.-Y. Xia, Science 2019, 366, 850–856.

- [28] G.-W. Sievers, A.-W. Jensen, J. Quinson, A. Zana, F. Bizzotto, M. Oezaslan, A. Dworzak, J. J. K. Kirkensgaard, T. E. L. Smitshuysen, S. Kadkhodazadeh, M. Juelsholt, K. M. O. Jensen, K. Anklam, H. Wan, J. Schafer, K. Cepe, M. Escudero-Escribano, J. Rossmeisl, A. Quade, V. Bruser, M. Arenz, Nat. Mater. 2021, 20, 208–213.
- [29] Y. Hu, M. Zhu, X. Luo, G. Wu, T. Chao, Y. Qu, F. Zhou, R. Sun, X. Han, H. Li, B. Jiang, Y. Wu, X. Hong, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 6533–6538; Angew. Chem. 2021, 133, 6607–6612.
- [30] W. Lei, M. Li, L. He, X. Meng, Z. Mu, Y. Yu, F. M. Ross, W. Yang, Nano Res. 2020, 13, 638–645.
- [31] X. Zhu, L. Huang, M. Wei, P. Tsiakaras, P. K. Shen, Appl. Catal. B 2021, 281, 119460–119368.
- [32] M. Xie, Z. Lyu, R. Chen, M. Shen, Z. Cao, Y. Xia, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 8509–8518.
- [33] N. Cheng, L. Zhang, Y. Zhou, S. Yu, L. Chen, H. Jiang, C. Li, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2020, 572, 170–178.
- [34] L. Gao, X. Li, Z. Yao, H. Bai, Y. Lu, C. Ma, S. Lu, Z. Peng, J. Yang, A. Pan, H. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 18083–18090.
- [35] B.-A. Lu, L.-F. Shen, J. Liu, Q. Zhang, L.-Y. Wan, D. J. Morris, R.-X. Wang, Z.-Y. Zhou, G. Li, T. Sheng, L. Gu, P. Zhang, N. Tian, S.-G. Sun, ACS Catal. 2020, 11, 355–363.
- [36] M. Gong, D. Xiao, Z. Deng, R. Zhang, W. Xia, T. Zhao, X. Liu, T. Shen, Y. Hu, Y. Lu, X. Zhao, H. Xin, D. Wang, Appl. Catal. B 2021, 282, 119617–119624.
- [37] B.-A. Lu, T. Sheng, N. Tian, Z.-C. Zhang, C. Xiao, Z.-M. Cao, H.-B. Ma, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, Nano Energy 2017, 33, 65–71.
- [38] M. Jin, G. He, H. Zhang, J. Zeng, Z. Xie, Y. Xia, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 10560–10564; Angew. Chem. 2011, 123, 10748–10752.
- [39] Y. Liao, J. Li, S. Zhang, S. Chen, Chin. J. Catal. 2021, 42, 1108–1116.

Manuscript received: April 3, 2022 Revised manuscript received: April 19, 2022 Accepted manuscript online: April 20, 2022 Version of record online: May 4, 2022