---
source: Zhao 等 - 2020 - Hexagonal La2 O3 Nanocrystals Chemically Coupled with Nitrogen‐Doped Porous Ca.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 45.360s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:13:40.589759Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Hexagonal La2O3 nanocrystals chemically coupled with nitrogendoped porous carbon as efficient catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction

**Authors:** Jing Zhao, Jingjun Liu, Chun Jin, Nan Wang, and Feng Wang

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *Chem. Eur. J.* 10.1002/chem.202001288

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202001288

# **Hexagonal La2O3 nanocrystals chemically coupled with nitrogendoped porous carbon as efficient catalysts for oxygen reduction reaction**

Jing Zhao, Jingjun Liu,\* Chun Jin, Nan Wang, and Feng Wang\*[a]

[a] J. Zhao, Prof. J. Liu, C. Jin, N. Wang, Prof. F. Wang State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering Beijing Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Process and Technology for Materials, Beijing University of Chemical Technology Beijing 100029 (P.R. China) E-mail: [liujingjun@mail.buct.edu.cn](mailto:liujingjun@mail.buct.edu.cn) wangf@mail.buct.edu.cn

**Abstract:** The construction of nano-scale hybrid materials with a smart interfacial structure, established by rare earth oxide and carbon as building blocks, is essential for the development of economical and efficient catalysts for oxygen reduction reactions (ORR). In this work, hexagonal La2O3 nanocrystals on a nitrogen-doped porous carbon (NPC) derived from crop radish, served as building bricks, are prepared by chemical precipitation and then calcination at elevated temperatures. The obtained La2O3/NPC hybrid exhibits a very high ORR activity with a half-wave potential of 0.90 V, exceeding that of commercial Pt/C (0.83 V). Both DFT theoretical and experimental results have verified that the significantly enhanced catalytic performance is ascribed to the formation of the C-O-La covalent bonds between carbon and La2O3. Through the covalent bonds, electrons can transfer from the carbon to La2O3 and occupy the unfilled eg orbital of La2O3 phase. It results in the accelerated adsorption of active oxygen and the facilitated desorption of the surface hydroxides (OHad- ), thereby promoting the ORR over the catalyst.

#### **Introduction**

Oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) has always been a very crucial electrochemical reaction, which is widely used in advanced energy conversion and storage devices, such as fuel cells and metal-air batteries.[1] However, due to the sluggish kinetics of ORR, there is an urgent need to develop active electrocatalysts to facilitate the ORR process.[2] Although commercial Pt/C is considered as the most effective catalyst for ORR, but it has significant disadvantages, including high cost, scarcity and inadequate stability.[3] For the past few years, researchers have expressed their interests to the rare earth oxides such as La2O3, CeO2, Y2O3, etc., because of their characteristic electronic structures, high conductivity, good stability and outstanding electrocatalytic activity for ORR.[4] As a class of relatively independent element in the periodic table, the rare earth elements have a unique 4f electron configuration.[5] With the increasing of the atomic number, electrons are gradually filled in 4f orbital instead of 5s or 5d orbital. This particular filling allows the rare earth elements to exhibit a series of special properties in the formation of compounds or other materials.[6] As the first metal element in the lanthanide group, the rare earth lanthanum owns special 4f electronic structure with seven orbitals can participate in forming covalent bonds which makes the center atom of lanthanum compounds have alterable coordination number, usually 6 to 12, and such special electronic structure makes lanthanide compounds have great application prospects in the field of electrocatalysis. Nowadays the lanthanum compounds such as La2O3, LaOHCO3, and La2O2CO3 have been extensively used in the area of catalysis and photo-electrocatalysis, including methane oxidative coupling reaction (OCM), methanol oxidation reaction (MOR), decomposition of water to produce hydrogen, and oxygen reduction reaction.[7]

Although the lanthanum oxides have unique electronic configuration, it is worth noting that the pure phase of La2O3 is not electroconductive, which will certainly limit its exertion in electrocatalysis. Recently it has been reported that the carbon black-loaded La2O3 composites exhibit high ORR catalytic activity and low yield of hydrogen peroxide in alkaline solution. And Zhang et al. synthesized a bifunctional catalyst with La2O3 supported on a carbon (carbonaceous-microsphere), which exhibits good catalytic properties on both oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[8] The remarkably ORR electrocatalytic performance of La2O3 is mainly attributed to the following two aspects. On the one hand, it is determined by the valence band structure of La2O3 itself (2.8-5.4 eV).[9] Because of this valence band configuration, La2O3 as a Lewis base is beneficial to provide electrons, thus promoting the dynamic process of ORR. On the other hand, because the active ingredients of C-O bond and La-O bond are formed at the interface between the oxide and the matrix carbon black in this hybrid catalyst has been verified by Liu et al..[10] The formation of such interfacial covalent bond caused the strong interaction between La2O3 phase and carbon carrier may be answerable for enhancing the electrocatalytic property of ORR. The specific process is that some electrons could be transferred to the eg empty orbital, which is derived from a degenerate orbital divided by the La 5d orbital of La2O3, through the above chemical covalent bonds.[11] This process also contributes to the adsorption of active oxygen species, which may play an active role in catalyzing the ORR. It can be known from the above analysis that the La2O3 accelerates the adsorption of oxygen by virtue of the electron transfer in the abundant 4f or 3d orbital, thereby promoting the ORR electrocatalytic process. In addition, La2O3 that could decompose hydrogen peroxide will contribute to promoting the ORR activity. It can be inferred that La2O3 has a very prominent application prospect in the field of electrocatalytic ORR.

In this work, firstly, we synthesized a nitrogen-rich porous carbon (NPC) from crop radish as precursor. Then La2O3 nanocrystals is chemically deposited on the home-made carbon surface, via a urea precipitation method. Moreover, the electrocatalytic activity of the prepared La2O3/NPC hybrids on ORR were measured in an alkaline electrolyte. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations also verify that C-O-La bond, formed at the phase interface between the oxide and carbon in their hybrid, has a lower free energy than C-N-La and C-La-O bonds. It is clear that the C-O-La can be more stable at the interface between lanthanum oxide and carbon matrix. Compare the ORR process can be found that the synthesized hybrids display better electrocatalytic performance than pure La2O3 due to the existence of C-O-La covalent chemical bonds at the connected interface of two phases. This work tries to reveal the intrinsic link between the increased ORR performance and interfacial chemical structures in lanthanum oxide/carbon hybrids.

### **Results and Discussion**

**Scheme 1.** The preparation procedure of La2O3/NPC.

#### **Preparation of La2O3/NPC hybrids**

Scheme 1 shows a typical preparation procedure for the La2O3 nanocrystals on nitrogen-doped porous carbon (La2O3/NPC hybrid). For the NPC, it is derived from radish by hydrothermal carbonization at 190 °C for 12 h to obtain the porous carbons. During the synthesis of the carbon, sodium chloride, zinc chloride and ferric chloride were added into the hydrothermal system to promote the formation of the nano pores in the carbon. Subsequently, the porous carbon was activated by ammonia at 900 °C so as to drop additional nitrogen atoms into the carbon. Then, La2O3 nanocrystals was chemically deposited on the homemade carbon surface, via a urea precipitation method.[12] During the synthesis process of the oxide, the added surfactant CTAB is a special hydrophilic/hydrophobic group, including a hydrophilic end (head) and a hydrophobic end (tail), which form a micelle with a double hydrophilic/hydrophobic structure in solution.[10] At the critical micelle concentrations, the small micellar forms a space limiting layer, coating with lanthanum ion and urea, which can effectively control the mixing of lanthanum chloride and urea reactants, so as to limit the excessive growth of surface oxides.[13] After adding urea, the lanthanum ion first forms La(OH)CO3 nucleus and grows up on the carbon surface. Then the obtained La(OH)CO3 precursor is heat-treated under argon at 750 °C to obtain lanthanum oxide. During the heat treatment, La(OH)CO3 precursor will release the N2, SO2 and NH3, and eventually forming an uniformly dispersed radish carbon-supported oxide as displayed in Scheme 1.

The morphology of the prepared La2O3/NPC hybrids was observed firstly by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) shown in Figure 1A -C. As observed in Figure 1A, the N-doped porous carbon (NPC) derived from radish exhibits a graphene-like layered structure with 3D interconnected porous network, which is an ideal carrier for La2O3 nanocrystals. In Figure 1B-C, it can be noted that La2O3 nanocrystals are uniformly supported on the carbon substrate, their particle size is about 100 nm. The formation of the La2O3/NPC hybrid can be evidenced by the transmission electron microscope results shown in Figure 1D. The determined lattice distances of the La2O3 nanocrystals are about 3.4 Å, which is consistent with the (100) crystal plane of the hexagonal La2O3, indicating that the presence of hexagonal La2O3 phase on the carbon surface. In addition, the synthesized La2O3/NPC hybrid was also analyzed by XRD. As shown in Figure 1E, the sample appears a diffraction peak at near 26°, corresponding to the (002) crystal plane of carbon.[14] The remaining eight diffraction peaks in the XRD spectrum, at about

26.1° 29.9°, 39.5°, 46.1°, 52.1°, 55.4°, 72.1° and 75.3° respectively, are derived from the (100), (101),(102), (110), (103), (112), (203) and (211) planes of hexagonal La2O3 (JCPDF-05- 0602). In addition, no other miscellaneous peaks reveal that the La2O3 nanocrystals have pure hexagonal phase structure, as depicted in the schematic diagram of Figure 1F.

**Figure 1.** SEM images of **(A)** N-dope porous carbon (NPC), **(B)** and **(C)** La2O3/NPC; **(D)** TEM images of La2O3/NPC catalyst; **(E)** XRD pattern of La2O3/NPC hybrid; **(F)** Schematic structure of La2O3 with hexagonal phase.

The specific surface area and pore size distribution for the NPC and La2O3/NPC hybrids were analyzed by isothermal adsorption and desorption of nitrogen, as shown in Figure 2A-B. The N2 adsorption type of the NPC shows an I-type and there is no hysteresis loop in it, indicating that the carbon is mainly microporous inside. For the carbon, the rich pore structure would facilitate further loading of oxides thereon. According to the data statistics, the specific surface area of the NPC is as high as 1594.42 m2g-1, and the larger pore volume is 0.66 cm3g-1. After loading La2O3 on the NPC, the obtained La2O3/NPC shows a remarkably decreased specific surface area of 138.23 m2g-1, and much reduced total pore volume (0.14 cm3g-1), as shown in Table 1.

These findings confirm the successful loading of oxides on the NPC surface. Moreover, the C, O, N elements and their contents in the NPC and the synthesized hybrids are represented in Table 2. As illustrated in Table 2, the content of O species in La2O3/NPC is 13.72 % (atomic percentage), which is reduced to 9.52 % (atomic percentage) after subtracting the content of O atoms in the supported La2O3. There is a remarkably decrease in the content of O species for carbon matrix, relative to the original NPC, after the deposition process was completed. It implies that the O species on the carbon surface are the active sites for the chemical deposition of the oxides in the hybrid. Based on the recorded

contents of O species in both La2O3/NPC and La2O3, the calculated final weight percentages ratio of both La2O3 and NPC with relative to each other in La2O3/NPC hybrid is about 39 %. However, there exists a slightly increase in N doping level for the La2O3/NPC (2.77 %, atomic percentage) relative to the NPC (2.38 %, atomic percentage). It is caused by adding urea as an another nitrogen source during the preparation of the oxide shown in Scheme 1. In order to research the chemical state of the nitrogen species, the N1s spectrum of the high-resolution XPS were performed for the NPC and La2O3/NPC hybrid. In Figure 2C, the recorded N1s spectra of the samples show five structural nitrogen species, such as La–N (399.2 ± 0.2 eV), pyri-N (pyridinic N, 398.4 ± 0.2 eV), pyrr-N (pyrrolic N, 400.0 ± 0.2 eV), grap-N (graphitic N, 401.0 ± 0.2 eV), and oxid-N (oxidized N, 402.0 ± 0.2 eV) consisted in the samples, respectively.[15] The atomic content of the five structural nitrogen atoms have been given in Figure 2D. Different from the NPC sample, after loading lanthanum oxide, the content of oxidized N in La2O3/NPC increased significantly to 0.88 % (referring to N / C unless other stated), while the level of graphitic N decreased. The reason may be that the graphitization of the carbon layer is damaged to some extent during the oxide deposition process. The content of pyridinic N and pyrrolic N both decreased to a certain extent. In addition, the existence of newly formed La-N was observed in La2O3/NPC, and the content accounted for 0.53 %.

**Figure 2.** N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms and pore-size distribution of **(A)** nitrogen-doped porous carbons (NPC), **(B)** La2O3/NPC; **(C)** N1s of the NPC and La2O3/NPC hybrids; **(D)** Contents of the five structural nitrogen species (relative to carbon) in NPC and La2O3/NPC.

**Table 1.** Pore structure of the prepared samples.

| Samples   | SBET[a]<br>[m2 g-1<br>] | [b]<br>Vt<br>[cm3 g-1<br>] | Vmic[c]<br>[cm3 g-1<br>] | Vmeso[d]<br>[cm3 g-1<br>] |
|-----------|-------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------|---------------------------|
| NPC       | 1595.42                 | 0.66                       | 0.65                     | 0.01                      |
| La2O3/NPC | 138.23                  | 0.14                       | 0.03                     | 0.11                      |

[a] SBET - specific surface area. [b] Vt - total pore volume. [c] Vmic - microporous pore volume. [d] Vmes - mesoporous pore volume.

**Table 2.** The atomic percentages of C, O, N, La elements for the NPC and La2O3/NPC hybrids, the N/C refers to the percentage of nitrogen relative to the carbon content.

| Samples   | C<br>[%] | O<br>[%] | N<br>[%] | La<br>[%] | N/C<br>[%] |  |
|-----------|----------|----------|----------|-----------|------------|--|
| NPC       | 81.51    | 13.68    | 2.38     |           | 2.92       |  |
| La2O3/NPC | 80.71    | 13.72    | 2.77     | 2.80      | 3.43       |  |

#### **Electro-catalytic activity of La2O3/NPC hybrids for ORR**

**Figure 3. (A)** ORR polarization curves over the NPC and La2O3/NPC recorded at a fixed rotation rate of 1600 rpm with a scan rate of 5 mV s-1 in an O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH electrolytic solution; **(B)** The half-wave potential (E1/2, *vs* RHE); **(C)** The kinetics current densities at a potential of 0.85V (JK, *vs* RHE); and **(D)** The specific mass activities (MA) at 0.85V (*vs* RHE); **(E)** Transfer electron number (n) and hydrogen peroxide yield (H2O2%) on these samples.

To study the ORR electrocatalytic activities of the prepared La2O3/NPC hybrids relative to the NPC, we measured and recorded a series of polarization curves using the rotating ringdisk electrode in O2-saturated 1 mol L-1 KOH electrolyte at room temperature, as depicted in Figure 3A. By using the data from Figure 3A, the half-wave potentials (E1/2) can be obtained to evaluate the electrocatalytic properties. From Figure 3B we know that the E1/2 of the as-synthesized La2O3/NPC catalyst is 0.90V (vs. RHE, the same below), which is higher than that of the NPC (0.87 V) and the commercial platinum carbon (Pt/C, 0.83 V), indicating an excellent electrocatalytic property for the ORR. This outcome is also verified by the larger Jk of 12.33 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for the La2O3/NPC catalyst than that for the NPC (7.39 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Pt/C (3.34 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) at a given potential of 0.85 V, as shown in Figure 3C. At a given polarization potential (0.85 V), the calculated mass specific activity (MA) of the La2O3/NPC is 10.66 mA mg-1, which is close to the Pt/C (10.76 mA mg-1) and is much higher than NPC (8.45 mA mg-1), as described in Figure 3D. By measuring the charging current of the electric double layer, the determined ECSA of the NPC is 79.88 m2 g-1 while the ECSA of

La2O3 is 47.69 m2 g-1. [7] Based on the weight ratio of the oxide and the carbon in the La2O3/NPC hybrid, the calculated surface area of La2O3/NPC is 70.80 m2 g-1, close to that of NPC instead of the oxide. Further, the ORR pathway on the catalysts have been researched, and the calculated electronic transfer numbers (n) and the hydrogen peroxide yield (H2O2%) results are shown in Figure 3E. The La2O3/NPC undergoes a nearly 4-electron ORR response pathway with the electronic transfer numbers of more than 3.96 at different potentials between 0.55 V and 0.85 V. The prominent electrocatalytic selectivity of La2O3/NPC can be also verified by the inappreciable hydrogen peroxide yield (less than 3.0%). Table 3 compares the ORR performance of the synthesized La2O3/NPC catalyst with the recently reported results available in literature.

**Table 3.** Comparison of ORR catalytic activity between the La2O3/NPC catalyst and other carbon-supported oxide catalysts.

| Refere<br>nce | Catalyst                      | E1/2<br>[V vs.<br>RHE] | Eonset<br>[V vs.<br>RHE] | ID<br>[mA<br>cm-2] | n    | Electrolyte |
|---------------|-------------------------------|------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------|------|-------------|
| This<br>work  | La2O3/NPC                     | 0.90                   | 1.03                     | 6.18               | 3.97 | 0.1 M KOH   |
| This<br>work  | Pt/C                          | 0.83                   | 0.97                     | 5.61               | 3.94 | 0.1 M KOH   |
| [9]           | La2O3/C                       | 0.81                   | 0.90                     | 2.40               | 3.80 | 1 M NaOH    |
| [10]          | La2O2CO3@<br>La2O3/C          | 0.85                   | 0.93                     | 2.00               | 3.85 | 1 M NaOH    |
| [16]          | LO-NF<br>NCNTs-1.0            | 0.77                   | 0.90                     | 4.96               | 3.70 | 0.1 M KOH   |
| [17]          | La2O3/NiCo<br>NCNTs           | 0.76                   | 0.85                     | 5.10               | 3.91 | 0.1 M KOH   |
| [18]          | La2O3/Co3O<br>4/MnO2–<br>CNTs | 0.81                   | 0.93                     | 5.41               | 3.90 | 0.1 M KOH   |

In consideration of the catalytic durability for ORR is also a key index to evaluate the electrochemical performance, the chronoamperometric measurements were performed for the La2O3/NPC in 0.1 M KOH solution that Figure 4A shows. As a result, the retention of ORR current for the as-synthesized La2O3/NPC catalyst is 89.86% even after continuous operation for 5000 s, revealing that this catalyst shows excellent stability during ORR. But it is only 81.02% for the commercial Pt/C under the same condition, exhibiting poor stability compared with that of the La2O3/NPC. In view of that the methanol resistance is also an important factor in measuring the electrochemical activity of materials, the anti-methanol poisoning performance of La2O3/NPC and Pt/C were operated by chronoamperometric responses test, the results are displayed in Figure 4B. After 300s, the stable current was obtained, and then adding 1.5 mL of methanol, and the current of La2O3/NPC did not change significantly. In contrast, the Pt/C curve showed a sharp change after adding methanol. The results indicate that La2O3/NPC performs better methanol resistance than the Pt/C.

**Figure 4. (A)** Chronoamperometric response curves of ORR over La2O3/NPC and Pt/C catalysts; **(B)** Chronoamperometric response curves of anti-methanol poisoning over the above catalysts.

#### **Chemical interaction between the oxide and NPC**

**Figure 5. (A)-(C)** Three different bonding forms of the connection between the La2O3 and N-doped porous carbon (NPC), and **(D)** The corresponding formation energies of interface bond obtained by DFT calculation.

For the prepared La2O3/NPC hybrids, its interfacial configuration between the lanthanum oxide and carbon should be pivotal in deciding the ORR activity shown in Figure 3-4. As shown in Figure 5A-C, there exist three possible connection modes across the oxide and NPC, that is, connection through C-N-La covalent bond, C-La-O covalent bond and C-O-La covalent bond. These models are determined and optimized by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The formation energies of the interface bonds corresponding to the above three models are displayed in Figure 5D, respectively. The results show that the carbon-supported lanthanum oxide models connected by three covalent bonds of C-N-La, C-La-O and C-O-La all show negative formation energies, indicating the possibility of their existence. In addition, compared with the C-N-La bond (-0.686 eV) and C-La-O bond (-0.743 eV), the C-O-La bond (-0.812 eV) has a more negative binding energy, indicating that the structure in this condition can exist more stable. So, the formed C-O-La bond is predominated at the interface in the La2O3/NPC hybrids.

To confirm the existence of the C-O-La covalent bond at the phase interface, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) has been carried out to identify the unique chemically interfacial structures for the synthesized La2O3/NPC hybrids. As displayed in Figure 6A, there are three characteristic peaks in the fitted C1s spectrum, which are relevant to the C–C bond (285.0 ± 0.2 eV), C–O bond (286.7 ± 0.2 eV), and O–C=O bond (289.0 ± 0.2 eV) in the radish-based carbon carrier, respectively.[19] In addition, the La2O3/NPC sample also exhibits a new characteristic peak at about 286.2 eV, that may be responsible for the C–O–La bond formed by the chemical interaction between La2O3 and the carbon support.[19] To further demonstrate this outcome, the fitted O1s spectra of the La2O3/NPC hybrids is shown in Figure 6B. It can be observed that there are two peaks corresponding to the C–O bond (533.7 ± 0.2 eV) and O–C=O bond (532.1 ± 0.2 eV) of the carbon support surface, furthermore, another peak is attributed to the La– O chemical bond (531.7 ± 0.2 eV) in La2O3. It should be pointed out that the characteristic peak associated with the C–O–La covalent bond (532.9 ± 0.2 eV), in which the carbon atom is linked to the lanthanum atom via an oxygen atom.[11] It reveals the chemical interaction of the NPC with lanthanum oxide in their hybrids.

**Figure 6.** XPS spectra of La2O3/NPC hybrids: **(A)** C1s; **(B)** O1s.

#### **Origin of electrocatalytic activity for La2O3/NPC hybrids**

The observed high ORR activity of the hybrids should be associated with formation of the unique chemical structure at the interface shown in Figure 5-6. Based on the above analysis, the formation of C-O-La bond at atomic level in the hybrids may efficiently improve the electrocatalytic performance for ORR, as shown in Figure 7A. To understand in detail the origin of the ORR activity for the La2O3/NPC catalyst, we performed DFT theoretical calculations based on the Nørskov's model to study the reaction free energy of ORR process. Schematic atomic structure for the La2O3/NPC catalyst and optimized configurations of adsorbates (OO\*, OOH\*, O\* and OH\*) on the La2O3/NPC are shown in Figure 7B. For the different carbon-supported La2O3 models with C-N-La, C-La-O and C-O-La covalent bonds, the obtained free energy diagrams of the ORR processes at various output potentials are shown in Figure 7C. Under a certain potential (U = 0 V vs. RHE), for C-La-O covalent bond at the interface of La2O3/NPC catalysts, the last step appears to an endothermic state compared to other steps, revealing that ORR process cannot be spontaneously carried out in this case. Unlike it, the free energy (ΔG) of four steps all showed a declining trend in carbon-supported La2O3 model with the C-O-La covalent bond, which reveals that each procedure is exothermic in this case. As given in Figure 7D, the values of ΔG1, ΔG2, ΔG3 and ΔG4 are 1.23, 1.18, 1.72 and 0.79 V, respectively. As seen, the ΔG of the last ORR reaction step is the smallest, indicating that this step proceeds most difficultly among these four steps. Therefore, the final electron transfer step, the process of OH\* desorption to form OH- , is the theoretical speedcontrol step of ORR on the La2O3/NPC catalyst. Moreover, when the applied potential is the equilibrium potential (U = 1.23 V vs. RHE), the first two steps still maintain a downward trend, but the

last step reaction free energy is greater than 0, that is, the performance of an endothermic process, which indicates that the external force is required to drive this process. This consequence also means that the theoretical speed-control step of ORR is the last electron transfer process, as the output potential is increased to 0.79 V, the free energy of the speed-control step becomes zero. Furthermore, when U > 0.79 V, the last step becomes an endothermic process (ΔG > 0 eV), which means that the fourelectron transferred ORR process will not occur spontaneously at this time. The result corresponds to the onset potential for the ORR of the carbon-supported oxide catalyst. Moreover, as observed in Figure 7C, the C-N-La bond shows a better ORR kinetics than C-La-O bond but poor ORR kinetics relative to the C-O-La bond. It revealing C-N-La bond also play a key role in tuning ORR activity for the La2O3/NPC catalyst, although ORR kinetics over the C-O-La bond is easier to proceed than that on the C-N-La bond.

**Figure 7. (A)** The correlation of the formed C-O-La bond with the ORR process; **(B)** Density functional theory calculation of the La2O3/NPC samples: the intermediate process of oxygen reduction; **(C)** the Gibbs free energy level diagrams for ORR on C-N-La, C-La-O and C-O-La models at the potential of 0 V vs RHE; and **(D)** the free-energy diagrams for ORR of C-O-La model at various output potentials.

**Figure 8. (A)** and **(B)** Raman spectra for La2O3/NPC, La2O3, and supported carbon (NPC).

Related studies have shown that the connection between the oxide and the carbon matrix through the C-O-La bond could help the process of electron transfer from the carbon support to the orbital of La2O3, which will be beneficial to the improvement of ORR electrocatalytic activity (Figure 7A).

As shown in Figure 8, the C-O-La bond formed at the interfaces should be answerable for the improved ORR performance of the hybrids. To further reveal the impact of the chemical bond on the ORR process in detail, analysis of the Raman spectroscopy has been performed to acquire the electron transfer process in the La2O3/NPC hybrid. As shown in Figure 8A, The NPC in the hybrid shows two regular peaks in the Raman spectroscopy, the D peak and the G peak, located at 1346 cm-1 and 1583 cm-1, respectively. It is noted that the recorded G peak (1600 cm-1) in La2O3/NPC shows a slightly positive shift, compared with the pure NPC without the oxide (1583 cm-1). It indicates the presence of electron transfer across the interface between the NPC and La2O3 components in the hybrid, according to literature [9] . In addition, Figure 8B shows that the pure La2O3 without NPC reflects two characteristic peaks, one of them is the Eg peak attributed to the La–O tensile vibration at 411 cm-1, and the other is the A1g peak attributed to the La–O bending vibration at 201 cm-1. It can be seen that the Eg peak (406 cm-1 ) for the synthesized La2O3/NPC has a negative shift, compared with the pure La2O3. This downshift is believed that due to the process of electron transfer from the porous carbon support to La2O3, impacting the stretching vibration peak of La–O bonds and resulting in a change in the gap of La2O3 covalent bands.

For La2O3, lanthanum cations of the hexagonal La2O3 phases are located at the center of the octahedral gaps formed by oxygen anions. In this crystal field, the La 5d orbital splits into the eg orbit and the t2g orbit, where the energy of eg orbital is higher than the t2g orbital.[21] Due to this strong electron transfer interaction between the La2O3 and carbon, the electrons (high energy π electrons), which transferred from the porous carbon support to the La2O3 would more likely to occupy the unfilled eg orbital of La2O3. The filled eg electrons in lanthanum oxide could not only accelerate the adsorption of active oxygen species on the La2O3 surface (corresponding to the first step and speed-control step of ORR), but also promote the desorption of the adsorbed surface hydroxide (OHad- ) in electrolyte, which is conducive to facilitate the ORR.[22] Hence, the transfer of electrons from the carbon carrier to the eg orbital of La2O3 via the C–O–La bonds in La2O3/NPC hybrids should facilitate the electrocatalytic activity of the ORR.

### **Conclusion**

In summary, a biomass carbon-supported La2O3 hybrid is synthesized by chemical precipitation of LaCl3 and CO(NH2)2 and then calcining at 750 °C. For the hybrid, fresh white radish was used as a precursor to prepare nitrogen-doped porous carbon (NPC) supports. And then, the hexagonal La2O3 nanocrystals are successfully loaded and uniformly dispersed on the carbon surface. The La2O3/NPC hybrids exhibit a significant electrocatalytic activity and excellent stability for ORR under alkaline conditions, as well as methanol tolerance, which is particularly superior to that of the commercial Pt/C catalyst (20 wt% Pt, E-TEK). The remarkable enhanced catalytic performance is ascribed to the presence of the covalent C–O–La chemical bonds at the interface between the carbon and lanthanum oxide, determined by DFT calculation results. Covalent electrons can be transferred from the carbon support to the lanthanum oxide via covalent C–O–La bonds and occupy the unfilled eg orbital of La3+ atoms in La2O3 phase. Such eg orbital filling could greatly affect the adsorption of active oxygen species and the desorption of

### WILEY-VCH

### **FULL PAPER**

surface-adsorbed hydroxide ( $OH_{ad}$ ) on the  $La_2O_3$  surface, which enhances the catalytic performance of ORR. An accurate awareness of the ORR mechanism catalyzed by hybrid catalysts is conducive to the development of rare earth oxide - carbon hybrids as the next generation ORR catalysts with ultrahigh activity and stability.

#### **Experimental Section**

#### Materials synthesis

All chemicals are of analytical grade and purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Co. Firstly, we prepared nitrogen-doped porous carbons (NPC), which originates from the radish by hydrothermal carbonization. Radishes were collected and peeled the pericarp off, afterwards, chopped and dried for 24 h at 80 °C. 1 g of dried radish powder was weighed and soaked in the hypersaline solutions for 12 hours to attain the well swelling of the radish powder, and then placed in a hydrothermal kettle, and hydrothermally treated at 190 °C for 12 h to obtain the carbonized product. In a typical preparation process, three chloride salts (sodium chloride, 1.44 g; ferric chloride, 3.68 g; zinc chloride, 17.28 g) were well mixed with 4 mL deionized water to ensure the salt solution were saturated, the insoluble salts were separated, and the saturated solution was left for use. Subsequently, the product was washed successively with the HCl solution (3 M) and deionized water to neutral (pH = 7) and dried at 60 °C overnight. At last, the prepared carbon was post-treated with ammonia gas for 2 hours at 900 °C in order to absorb extra nitrogen atoms into the NPC samples

Secondly,  $La_2O_3$  nanocrystals loaded on the above nitrogen-doped porous carbon La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>/NPC hybrids were prepared by a chemical precipitation method using the radish-based carbon as a carrier in alkaline solution system. The formation of the La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>/NPC electrocatalyst involves a process in which the surface oxide of the carbon support is continuously nucleated and grown. Using urea as a precipitating agent, and cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB) as a surfactant, typically, 200mg radish carbon was distributed in a mixture of 20 mL of lanthanum chloride (LaCl<sub>3</sub>, 0.05 M) and ammonium sulphate ((NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, 0.25 wt%) to acquire a uniform-dispersed suspension liquid. Subsequently added 20 mL of urea (0.15 M) and CTAB (24.8 mM) into the above suspension. The pH of the obtained mixture was adjusted between 9 and 10, and then the reaction was sufficient continued in an 85 °C oil bath for 2 h. Afterwards, the reaction mixture was washed with deionized water and dried in an 80 °C oven for 2 hours. At last, the sample was placed in a tube furnace. annealed at 750 °C for 2h in the argon flow to obtain the La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> on radishbased carbon.

#### Physical characterizations

The morphologies of these prepared catalysts were determined by recorded the scanning electron microscope (SEM, FEJMS-6701E) and high-resolution transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEM-3010) images. X-ray diffraction (XRD) performed on a Rigaku D/max-2500 diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation (γ=1.54056 Å) as the X-ray source at 30 kV and 40 mA was to certain the types and the existence form of La in the catalyst. The electronic structures and atomic percent at the surface of these samples were tested by using the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic (XPS, Thermo ESCALAB 250). All performed XPS spectra were calibrated with respect to the C 1s peak (285.0 eV). The electron transfer in these synthetic catalysts was analyzed using Raman spectroscopy. In addition, the pore-size distributions and specific surface areas were analyzed on Quadrasorb SI (Quantachrome Instruments) with Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) and calculated with Quenched Solid Density Functional Theory (QSDFT) method.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

An AFCBP1 type rotating ring-disk electrode instrument (RRDE, PINE Company) with the 0.247 cm<sup>2</sup> working area was used to measure the ORR electrocatalytic activity of these catalysts in oxygen-saturated KOH solution (0.1M) at room temperature. In the tested system, we chose the glassy carbon electrode coated with the catalyst suspension as working electrode, graphite rod as counter electrode and the saturated calomel electrode (SCE) as reference electrode, respectively. All potentials were normalized by reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) with an equation  $E_{VSRHE} = E_{VSSCE} + 0.241 \text{ V} + 0.0591 \text{ pH}$ . Electrochemical samples were prepared as follows: 5.0 mg catalyst were well-dispersed in 1.0 ml ethanol and 50µl Nafion solution, and ultrasonic for more than 30 minutes to form an evenly dispersed ink. Then 20  $\mu L$  of the electro-catalyst ink was transferred onto the glassy carbon electrode and dried at room temperature. Whereas the commercial Pt/C catalyst (20 wt% Pt) was prepared in the same way and was transferred 5 µL to prepare the working electrode. During the measurements, a gentle and constant O2 flow was bubbled through the electrolyte solution to ensure the O2-saturation atmosphere. According to Koutecky-Levich (KL) formula, the kinetic parameters of ORR can be calculated:

$$1/J = 1/J_K + 1/J_L$$
 Equation (1)

the meaning of each symbol is: the measured current density (J); kinetic limit current density ( $J_K$ ) and diffusion limit current density ( $J_L$ ).<sup>[23]</sup> The correlative dynamic current density was given by the following equation:

$$J_K = (J \times J_L)/(J_L - J)$$
 Equation (2)

After that, the hydrogen peroxide yield ( $H_2O_2\%$ ) and electron transfer numbers (n) were calculated from the test curves using the following formulas, respectively.<sup>[24]</sup>

$$H_2O_2\% = 100 \frac{2\frac{N}{N}}{\frac{R}{N+D}}$$
 Equation (3)

$$n = \frac{4l_D}{l_D + \frac{l_R}{l_D}}$$
 Equation (4)

where  $I_R$  is the ring current,  $I_D$  the disk current, and N (N = 0.37) stands for the collection efficiency of disk current related to the devices. Furthermore, chronoamperometric response tests were measured on the prepared catalysts using the CHI 600E electrochemical workstation system in a 0.1 M KOH electrolytic solution to assess the long-term stability and methanol tolerance.

#### **DFT Modeling**

The density functional theory (DFT) calculations of the synthesized La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>/NPC catalyst were performed on Material Studio software with DMol<sup>3</sup> module.<sup>[25]</sup> Using the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) with the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional software package to optimize the geometrical configurations of catalyst models. The DFT semicore pseudopotential (DSPP) method was adopted to treat the core electrons and the double numerical plus polarization (DNP) with a 5.0 Å real-space global orbital cutoff radius was selected as the basis sets to enhance the computing performance. The convergence criterion of structural optimization was chosen as: energy tolerance of  $1.0 \times 10^{-5}$  Ha per atom, maximum force tolerance of 2.0  $\times$  10<sup>-2</sup> Ha Å<sup>-1</sup> and maximum displacement tolerance of  $5.0 \times 10^{-2}$  Å. The structures were optimized until the selfconsistent field (SCF) is in the range of  $1.0 \times 10^{-4}$  Ha per atom. For all models used for calculation, the Monkhorst-Pack grid k-points were set for  $(1 \times 1 \times 1)$ . The vacuum space was set to be 15Å along vertical zdirection, which is large enough to avoid periodic interactions. In this work, the formation energies of interface bond (ΔE<sub>b</sub>) was chosen for different models, and the formula is  $\Delta E_b = E_b(La_2O_3/support) - E_b(La_2O_3) -$ E<sub>b</sub>(support), where E<sub>b</sub>(La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>/support) is the total energy of carbonsupported La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> system, E<sub>b</sub>(La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>) is the energy of La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, and E<sub>b</sub>(support) is the energy of the graphene substrate.

According to the report of Nørskov and his colleagues,[26] the ORR process of the electrocatalyst can be performed through four basic steps in alkaline electrolyte (pH = 13):

| O2(g) + H2O(l) + e- + * → OOH* + OH- | Equation (5) |
|--------------------------------------|--------------|
| OOH* + e- → O* + OH-                 | Equation (6) |
| O* + H2O(l) + e- → OH* + OH-         | Equation (7) |
| OH* + e- → * + OH-                   | Equation (8) |

where (g) and (l) stand for the gas phase and the liquid phase, respectively; \* indicates the active site on the substrate; \*OOH, \*O and \*OH are the adsorbed intermediate products. The free energy change in the reaction process (ΔG) can be acquire by calculation as the following equation:

ΔGads = ΔEads + ΔZPEads - TΔSads + xeU – 4eU + ΔGpH Equation (9) where "ads" is stand for the adsorbed substance. ΔZPE and ΔS are respectively on behalf of the zero-point energy and entropy energy of the adsorbed molecules. U represents the realized potential and x is the number of transferred electrons, which corresponds to \*OOH when x = 1, corresponds to \*O when x = 2, and corresponds to \*OH when x = 3. ΔGpH = pH × kBT ln 10, where kB is the Boltzmann constant and the applied temperature (T) is selected as 298.15 K. ΔEads indicates the change of reaction energy and adsorption energy of oxygen species, which can be calculated as follows:

| ΔE(*OOH) = E(*OOH) - E(*) - [2E(H2O) – 3/2 E(H2)] | Equation (10) |
|---------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| ΔE(*O) = E(*O) - E(*) - [E(H2O) – E(H2)]          | Equation (11) |
| ΔE(*OH) = E(*OH) - E(*) - [E(H2O) – 1/2E(H2)]     | Equation (12) |

### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Funds of China (Grant number 51872020).

**Keywords:** lanthanum oxide • porous carbon • interfacial structure • chemical bonds • oxygen reduction reaction

- [1] a) J. Fu, Z. P. Cano, M. G. Park, A. Yu, M. Fowler, Z. *Chen, Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1604685; b) R. Amirante, E. Cassone, E. Distaso, P. Tamburrano, *Energy Conv. Manag.* **2017**, *132*, 372-387; c) D. Larcher, J-M. Tarascon, *Nat. Chem.* **2015**, *7*, 19; d) J. Cho, S. Jeong, Y. Kim, *Prog. Energy Combust. Sci.* **2015**, *48*, 84-101; e) C-Y. Lin, D. Zhang, Z. Zhao, Z. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1703646; f) Z. Chen, D. Higgins, A. Yu, L. Zhang, J. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 3167-3192; g) J-S. Lee, S. T. Kim, R. Cao, N-S. Choi, M. Liu, K. T. Lee, J. Cho, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2011**, *1*, 34-50.
- [2] a) Z-L. Wang, D. Xu, J-J. Xu, X-B. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2014**, *43*, 7746-7786; b) C. Zhu, H. Li, S. Fu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 517-531.
- [3] a) X. Liu, L. Dai, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2016**, *1*, 16064; b) Y. Nie, L. Li, Z. Wei, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 2168-2201; c) J. Zhang, Z. Xia, L. Dai, *Sci. Adv.* **2015**, *1*, e1500564; d) W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. Liang, R. Zou, S. Guo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2650–2676; e) A. Morozan, B. Jousselme, S. Palacin, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 1238-1254; f) H-W. Liang, X. Zhuang, S. Brüller, X. Feng, K. Müllen, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4973.
- [4] a) I. Karimzadeh, M. Aghazadeh, B. Safibonab, M. R. Ganjali, S. Dalvand, *Russ. J. Electrochem.* **2015**, *51*, 263-270; b) S. Soren, B. D. Mohaptra, S. Mishra, A. K. Debnath, D. K. Aswal, K. S. K. Varadwaj, P. Parhi, *RSC Adv.* **2016**, *6*, 77100-77104; c) J. Sunarso, A. A. J. Torriero, W. Zhou, P. C. Howlett, M. Forsyth, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2012**, *116*, 5827-5834.
- [5] Dorenbos P, *J. Lumines.* **2013**, *135*, 93-104.
- [6] a) N. Singh, S. M. Saini, T. Nautiyal, S. Auluck, *J. Appl. Phys.* **2006**, *100*, 083525; b) D. W. Hwang, J. S. Lee, W. Li, S. H. Oh, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2003**, *107*, 4963-4970.

- [7] a) K. Binnemans, P. T. Jones, *J. Rare Earths* **2014**, *32*, 195-200; b) W. Gu, Y. Song, J. Liu, F. Wang, *Chem.-Eur. J.* **2017**, *23*, 10126-10132.
- [8] X. Zhang, Q. Xiao, Y. Zhang, X. Jiang, Z. Yang, Y. Xue, Y-M. Yan, K. Sun, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2014**, *118*, 20229-20237.
- [9] N. Wang, J. Liu, W. Gu, Y. Song, F. Wang, *RSC Adv.* **2016**, *6*, 77786- 77795.
- [10] W. Gu, J. Liu, M. Hu, F. Wang, Y. Song, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 26914-26922.
- [11] a) T. Li, J. Liu, X. Jin, F. Wang, Y. Song, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *198*, 115-126; b) J. Liu, H. Liu, F. Wang, Y. Song, *RSC Adv.* **2015**, *5*, 90785- 90796.
- [12] a) H. Zhang, H. Li, H. Wang, K. He, S. Wang, Y. Tang, J. Chen, *J. Power Sources* **2015**, *280*, 640-648; b) L. Lai, J. R. Potts, D. Zhan, L. Wang, C. K. Poh, C. Tang, H. Gong, Z. Shen, J. Lin, R. S. Ruoff, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 7936-7942.
- [13] M. L. Bhaisare, S. Pandey, M. S. Khan, A. Talib, H-F. Wu, *Talanta* **2015**, *132*, 572-578.
- [14] Y. Su, H. Jiang, Y. Zhu, X. Yang, J. Shen, W. Zou, J. Chen, C. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 7281-7287.
- [15] a) Z. Lixin, W. Bo, Y. Shiyan, J. Daosen, *Polyhedron* **1993**, *12*, 1607- 1611; b) H. Yu, A. Fisher, D. Cheng, D. Cao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 21431-21439.
- [16] Z. Wang, F. Zhang, C. Jin, Y. Luo, J. Sui, H. Gong, R. Yang, *Carbon* **2017**, 115, 261-270.
- [17] P. Li, B. Wei, Z. Lü, Y. Wu, X. Huang, Y. Zhang, *Int. J. Hydrog. Energy* **2018**, 43, 21959-21968.
- [18] N. Xu, J. Qiao, X. Zhang, C. Ma, S. Jian, Y. Liu, P. Pei, *Appl. Energy* **2016**, 175, 495-504.
- [19] J. Liu, J. Liu, W. Song, F. Wang, Y. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 17477-17488.
- [20] X. Ge, A. Sumboja, D. Wuu, T. An, B. Li, F. W. T. Goh, T. S. A. Hor, Y. Zong, Z. Liu, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 4643-4667.
- [21] J. Liu, X. Jin, W. Song, F. Wang, N. Wang, Y. Song, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2014**, *35*, 1173-1188.
- [22] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 546.
- [23] M. Liu, J. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Song, F. Wang, *J. Catal.* **2019**, *370*, 21-29.
- [24] a) W. Yuan, J. Li, A. Xie, P. Chen, S. Li, Y. Shen, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *165*, 29-35; b) Y. Gong, H. Fei, X. Zou, W. Zhou, S. Yang, G. Ye, Z. Liu, Z. Peng, J. Lou, R. Vajtai, B. I. Yakobson, J. M. Tour, P. M. Ajayan, *Chem. Mat.* **2015**, *27*, 1181-1186.
- [25] a) B. Delley, *J. Chem. Phys.* **1990**, *92*, 508-517; b) B. Delley, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2000**, *113*, 7756-7764.
- [26] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886−17892.

**Lanthanum oxide Smart Interfacial Structure Chemical Bonds Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysis**

The hexagonal La2O3 nanocrystals were successfully loaded and uniformly dispersed on a home-made nitrogen-doped porous carbon by chemical precipitation and post-calcination process. The C-O-La covalent bonds formed between carbon and lanthanum oxide causes electrons to be transferred from carbon to La2O3 phase and occupy its unfilled eg orbitals, leading to significantly enhanced electrocatalytic activity for ORR.