---
source: Zhong 等 - 2021 - An Active Hybrid Electrocatalyst with Synergized Pyridinic Ni.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.383s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:26:54.461059Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** An Active Hybrid Electrocatalyst with Synergized Pyridinic Nitrogen-Cobalt and Oxygen Vacancies for Bifunctional Oxygen Reduction and Evolution

Authors: Wen-Xin Zhong, Xue-Ru Zhao, Jia-Yi Qin, and Jing Yang\*

This manuscript has been accepted and appears as an Accepted Article online.

This work may now be cited as: Chin. J. Chem. 2020, 38, 10.1002/cjoc.202000445.

The final Version of Record (VoR) of it with formal page numbers will soon be published online in Early View: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cjoc.202000445.

Cite this paper: Chin. J. Chem. 2021, 39, XXX—XXX. DOI: 10.1002/cjoc.202100XXX

# An Active Hybrid Electrocatalyst with Synergized Pyridinic Nitrogen-Cobalt and Oxygen Vacancies for Bifunctional Oxygen Reduction and Evolution

Wen-Xin Zhong,<sup>a</sup> Xue-Ru Zhao,<sup>a</sup> Jia-Yi Qin,<sup>a</sup> and Jing Yang\*<sup>,a</sup>

School of Materials Science and Engineering, Institute of New-Energy Materials, Tianjin University, Tianjin, Tianjin 300072, China.

# Keywords

Graphene | Heterogeneous catalysis | Electrochemistry | Oxygen evolution reaction | Oxygen reduction reaction

#### Main observation and conclusion

A hybrid bifunctional oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)/oxygen evolution reaction (OER) NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG with rich pyridinic-nitrogen-cobalt coordination and oxygen vacancies was synthesized via a combination of the hydrothermal method and pulsed laser irradiation. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG exhibits an excellent catalytic activity with a low overpotential of 290 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for OER and a high half-wave potential of 0.85 V for ORR. As a result, the overall ORR/OER overpotential of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is only 0.67 V in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte, which is superior to commercial noble-metal-based catalysts (Pt/C+RuO<sub>2</sub>). It is evidenced that the enhanced intrinsic OER and ORR activities of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is attributed to a synergistic effect between the pyridinic-N-Co coordination and the oxygen vacancies. This work provides a new design strategy for enhancing the intrinsic activity of bifunctional ORR/OER electrocatalysts.

## **Comprehensive Graphic Content**

\*E-mail: yang\_jing@tju.edu.cn

View HTML Article

Supporting Information

This article has been accepted for publication and undergone full peer review but has not been through the copyediting, typesetting, pagination and proofreading process which may lead to differences between this version and the Version of Record. Please cite this article as doi: 10.1002/cjoc.202000445

Report Zhong et al.

# **Background and Originality Content**

As modern industry desperately needs clean energy to replace the increasingly scarce fossil fuels, researchers are working to develop new renewable energy technologies. [1-3] Compared with other energy conversion and storage devices, zinc-air batteries are widely studied due to their higher theoretical energy density. [4-6] The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), which are limited by high overpotentials and sluggish kinetics, are two key reactions in zinc-air batteries. [7,8] Accordingly, ational design of electrocatalysts plays an important role in improving ORR/OER activity and the performance of zinc-air batteres. Up to now, noble metal-based catalysts such as IrO2, RuO2 and Pt have been used in zinc-air batteries due to their high catalytic activity. [6] Nonetheless, their high cost and unsatisfactory stability lave greatly hindered their commercial application. [9,10] Therefore, the exploitation of high-efficient and stable non-precious met-I-based bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts is critical to the development of zinc-air batteries.

As one of the promising oxygen electrocatalysts, transition metal (TM) oxides have received much attention to promote their intrinsic activities. Currently, some studies have indicated that the ntroduction of oxygen vacancies in TM oxides is beneficial to improve their OER/ORR catalytic activity. [11,12] On one hand, oxygen vacancies can increase the conductivity of transition metal oxides. [13] On the other hand, the introduction of oxygen vacancies will change the electronic structure of metal oxides, thereby schieving the adjustment of their adsorption energy and catalytic activity. [14,15] At the current stage, there are many ways to create oxygen vacancies. In our previous works, we have proved that the nethod of low-intensity pulsed laser irradiation (LI-PLI) could ffectively create and tune oxygen vacancies due to its characteristics of high pressure, high temperature, and rapid heating and cooling. [16,17] Besides, compounding metal oxides with carbon naterials, especially carbon materials doped with heteroatoms, can not only enhance the conductivity of the materials, but also produce synergistic effects to increase their intrinsic activity. [18-20] in one of our previous work, we revealed that the enhanced electrocatalytic activity of the composite electrocatalysts of TM oxides nd nitrogen-doped graphene is attributed to the pyridinic N-Co ing at the interface. [21] Additionally, density functional theory calculations demonstrated that the pyridinic-N-Co coordination could promote electron transfer and storage, and oxyen-containing species obtain electrons from Co and pyridinic N after adsorption on the active center, which optimizes the adsorption process of intermediates. [21] Meanwhile, this work also roved that the LI-PLI method could induce controllable amount of mesopores into graphene sheets, and thus tune the doping content of pyridinic nitrogen. [21] Moreover, our recent study also demonstrated that the synergistic catalytic effect between oxygen vacancies and Co-N-C could significantly enhance the intrinsic activity of both ORR and OER. [22] However, it is still unknown whether the oxygen vacancies and pyridinic-N-Co could synergistically give rise to further enhancements of ORR/OER intrinsic activities.

Herein, we utilized the method of LI-PLI to prepare a hybrid electrocatalyst where oxygen-defective NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles (NPs) are grown on nitrogen-doped laser-irradiated graphene sheets with rich pyridinic-nitrogen-cobalt coordination (Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG). In order to maximize the intrinsic activity of the material, we adopted a strategy that exploits both the oxygen vacancies on the surface and the pyridinic-N-Co bonds at the interface. Based on our previous research, [22] we further studied the effect of the synergy of pyridinic-N-Co and oxygen vacancies on ORR/OER. As a result, we proved that the combined effects of the surface and interface structures effectively enhance the ORR/OER

catalytic activity of the materials. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG achieves a low OER overpotential of 290 mV (vs RHE) at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a half-wave potential of 0.85 V for ORR in 1 M KOH, which leads to a low overall ORR/OER overpotential  $\Delta E=0.67$  V. As the air electrode of a rechargeable zinc-air battery, it displays a high specific capacity of 695.5 mA h  $\rm g_{2n}^{-1}$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and excellent long-term charge/discharge cycling performance.

#### **Results and Discussion**

As shown in Figure 1a and b, laser irradiation of 270 mJ can produce graphene with in-plane mesopores. According to the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller test (Figure S1), the size of the pore diameter is less than 20 nm, which is consistent with the results of the TEM image (Figure 1b). In addition, the nanoparticles disperse on graphene with an average particle size of about 11.45 nm (inset of Figure 1a). Figure S2 reveals that the low-energy laser irradiation does not change the morphology of the material. The diffraction rings in the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern illustrate the cubic structure of the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoparticles (Figure 1c). Furthermore, the HR-TEM image of NiCo2O4-x/NLG (Figure 1d) shows lattice fringes of 0.203 nm and 0.245 nm, corresponding to the lattice distances of the (400) and (311) planes of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (PDF#20-0781). Meanwhile, the XRD pattern (Figure 1e) certifies that the nanoparticles are cubic NiCo2O4, which illustrates that low-energy laser irradiation does not change its phase. Moreover, the broad diffraction peak around 24° corresponds to graphene nanosheets. [19] The XRD patterns of other materials are shown in Figure S3. Besides, the EDS elemental mapping of Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-v</sub>/NLG reveals that Ni, Co and O are mainly distributed in the position of the nanoparticles, and C and N are homogeneously distributed in the sample (Figure 1f, f1-f5), consistent with the EDS measurement results (Figure S4).

**Figure 1** (a, b) TEM image of  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NLG$ , and the inset displays the particle size distribution. (c) Corresponding SAED pattern of a. (d) Corresponding HR-TEM images of a. (e) XRD pattern of  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NLG$ . (f) STEM and (f1-f5) EDS elemental mapping of  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NLG$ .

To further explore the interface and surface structures of Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG, high-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) measurements were performed to obtain information on valence bonds and electronic structures. The N 1s XPS spectrum could be deconvoluted into pyridinic N ( $\approx$  398.5 eV), pyrrolic N ( $\approx$  400.0 eV), and graphitic N ( $\approx$  401.4 eV). Besides, the Co 2p XPS spectrum can be deconvoluted into Co³+ and Co²+ [²4] As shown in Figure 2a and

Table S1, the contents of pyridinic N in NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG (NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NPs grown on N-doped laser-irradiated graphene) increase significantly. Additionally, in the N K-edge EELS spectra (Figure 2b), the broad  $\sigma^*$  band located at 408.4 eV is attributed to pyridinic N, and the peaks centered at 400.9 eV and 401.9 eV are assigned to graphitic N and pyrrolic N, respectively. [25-28] Evidently, compared to NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG (NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NPs grown on N-doped un-irradiated graphene) and NiCo $_2$ O $_{4-x}$ /NG (oxygen-defective NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub> NPs grown on N-doped un-irradiated graphene), the peak intensity of pyridinic N increases relative to that of pyrrolic and graphitic N, proving the concentration of pyridinic N in NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG increases. This is consistent with our previous findings,  $^{[21,29]}$  that the mesopores in graphene produced by laser irradiation of 270 mJ would preferentially facilitate the doping of pyridinic N instead of pyrrolic and graphitic N. Furthermore, the XPS spectrums reveal that, compared to Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>+NLG (a physical mixture of oxygen-defective NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>NPs and N-doped laser-irradiated graphene), the peaks of pyridinic N for other samples shift towards higher binding energy (Figure 2a), and the both Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Co 2p<sub>1/2</sub> peaks shift to lower binding energy (Figure 2c), which illustrates the formation of pyridinic-N-Co bonds at the interface. [21] It is worthy to note that, as seen in Co L-edges EELS spectra (Figure 2d), the L<sub>2</sub> and L<sub>3</sub> peaks for NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG shift to higher energy loss compared to NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-y</sub>/NG, respectively. This implies that more electrons are withdrawn from Co sites for NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG with more pyridinic N, [30,31] probably due to more pyridinic-N-Co bonds formed in NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG, since pyridinic-N-Co could induce certain amount of electron transfer from Co to pyridinic N, whereas negligible electron transfer occurs between pyrrolic N or graphitic N and Co. [21] Besides, graphene has two characteristic peaks of the D band (1344 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and the G band (1584 cm<sup>-1</sup>), and the relative  $I_D/I_G$  ratio represents the degree of defects in graphene. [32] Figure S5 displays that the  $I_D/I_G$  ratio for different samples follow the trend  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NLG > NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NG$ ,  $NiCo_2O_4/NLG > NiCo_2O_4/NG$ , indicating that laser irradiation of 270 mJ could produce defects in graphene. As shown in Figure S1 and Figure S6, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG have mesopores with the pore diameter of about 10 nm and possess higher pore volume than NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4.x</sub>/NG and Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>D<sub>4</sub>/NG, proving again that laser irradiation of 270 mJ could introduce a considerable number of mesopores in graphene. [21] However, as seen in Figure S6, the pore volume of Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG (after irradiation of 80 mJ) is similar to that of Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG (before irradiation of 80 mJ), suggesting that the second laser irradiation with lower energy of 80 mJ would barely change the graphene, which is also consistent with our previous studies. [21] Moreover, it is demonstrated by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry that the weight percentages of Ni- $Co_2O_4$  in different samples are similar (Table S2). These results confirm that laser irradiation creates more edge defects in graphene, which promotes the doping of pyridinic N and further elevate the content of pyridinic-N-Co bonds, which is consistent with our previous work.

As demonstrated in Figure 2c and Table S1, the Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> ratios of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG increase compared to Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, suggesting the increase in the concentration of oxygen vacancies for catalysts after laser irradiation of 80 mJ. [33] Simultaneously, since the increase in oxygen vacancies could change the electronic structures of Co, [34] the peaks for NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG in Co L-edge EELS spectrum show a minor shift to lower energy loss (Figure 2d). Moreover, the O 1s XPS spectra (Figure 2e) could be convolved into three separate peaks located at ~529.7, 531.2, and 532.7 eV. The peak centered at 529.7eV and 532.7 eV are attributed to oxygen atoms bound to metal atoms (i.e., lattice oxygen) and oxygen atoms in hydroxy species of water molecules adsorbed on the surface (i.e., absorbed oxygen), respectively. [16, 24, 35, 36] The peak centered at 531.2 eV (labeled by shade in Figure 2e) is associated with oxygen atoms in low coordinated Co-O bonds, namely oxygen vacancies. Figure 2e and Table S1 reveal that the relative intensities of the  $O_{\nu}$ peaks for NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG increase, which further illustrates the increase in oxygen vacancies. In the O K-edge EELS spectrum (Figure 2f), the pre-edge peak caused by the hybridization of the O 2p and Co 3d orbits could be used to identify oxygen vacancies. [37] Obviously, compared with NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, the pre-edge peaks for NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG weaken and move slightly to high energy loss, indicating the increase of oxygen vacancies. [37, 38] Furthermore, due to the introduction of oxygen vacancies, the  $A_{1g}$  peaks of the samples after low-energy laser irradiation exhibit red-shift (Figure S5). [39] In summary, laser irradiating metal oxides with low energy of 80 mJ can effectively introduce oxygen vacancies. More importantly, via this method, we can not only maintain the pyridinic-N-Co bonds at the interface, but also create oxygen vacancies on the surface of the metal oxides.

Figure 2 (a) N 1s XPS spectrum of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>+NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. (b) N K-edge EELS spectrum of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. (c) Co 2p XPS spectrum of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>+NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. (d) Co L-edge EELS spectrum of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. (e) O 1s XPS spectrum of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. (f) O K-edge EELS spectrum of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and Ni- $Co_2O_{4-X}/NLG$ .

The OER/ORR electrocatalytic performances of the samples were further measured to evaluate the synergistic effect between the pyridinic-N-Co coordination and the oxygen vacancies. As shown in Figure 3a, compared to NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG (361 mV), the OER overpotentials of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG (323 mV) and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG (334 mV) at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> are much lower. In addition, their Tafel slopes are also smaller (Figure S7), suggesting that NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG provide more rapid OER kinetic process. [40] Combining the characterization results, it can be concluded that increasing the concentration of pyridinic-N-Co bonds and oxygen vacancies can effectively improve OER electrocatalytic performance. Remarkably, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG exhibits the lowest OER overpotential (290 mV) and Tafel slope (90.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) among the four catalysts. Meanwhile, the electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) displays that  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NLG$  have the lowest electron-transfer resistance (Figure S8). Moreover, we calculated the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) to analyze the density of the exposed active sites. [41] Obviously, the ECSA of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is much higher (Figure S9), indicating that the increase of the pyridinic-N-Co bonds and oxygen vacancies can elevate the number

Report Zhong et al.

of active sites. What's more, we quantitatively calculate the intrinsic OER activity of different electrocatalysts by normalizing the OER current at 1.6 V (vs. RHE) with respect to the corresponding ECSA.  $^{[41]}$  After NiCo $_2$ O $_4$ /NG was treated with laser irradiation, the intrinsic activities of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG and Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG are all improved, and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG displays the highest intrinsic activity, even higher than RuO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 3b). More importantly, compared with NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NG, the increase in intrinsic activity of NiCo $_2$ O $_{4-x}$ /NLG (0.092 mA cm $_{\text{ECSA}}^{-2}$ ) is higher than the sum of the increase in intrinsic activity of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG (0.037 mA cm <sub>sa</sub>) and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG (0.036 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>ECSA</sub>). Thus, it reveals that the synergistic effect between the pyridinic-N-Co coordination and the oxygen vacancies could enhance the OER intrinsic activities of he catalysts. Besides, we performed OER stability tests on Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG exhibits superior stability to commerial RuO<sub>2</sub> in 1.0 M KOH (Figure 3c). After 20 hours of testing, the current density of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG decreased by less than 8% in the chronoamperometric response, which indicates that Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG has not only excellent OER activity but also superior ktahility

On the other hand, we further explored the ORR electrocatalytic activity of the samples. As shown in Figure 3d, the ORR elecrocatalytic performance of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is greatly improved compared to other control samples. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG displays an inset potential ( $E_{onset}$ ) of 0.93 V (vs. RHE) and a half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$  of 0.85 V (vs. RHE) which are more positive than those of the control samples, and NiCo2O4-x/NLG also exhibits a higher imiting current density. Moreover, as can be seen from Figure S10. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4.x</sub>/NLG has a Tafel slope of 51.9 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> that is lower than Pt/C (79.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). Besides, the ORR electron transfer pathway of the samples was explored by the rotating ring-disk lectrode (RRDE). [40] Figure S11 exhibits that the electron transfer number (n) of  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NLG$  is greater than 3.9 and the yield of H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is less than 4.0%, suggesting that it carried out an effective pur-electron ORR pathway. We also performed the test of the ORR linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves (Figure S12) at different speeds (400-2025 rpm) for each sample, and used the Koutecky-Levich (K-L) equation to obtain kinetic parameters to evaluate the ORR intrinsic activity. [42] It is worth noting that the finetic current density  $(J_k)$  of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG at 0.7 V (vs. RHE) is nore than twice that of NiCo2O4/NG, which is also higher than that of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/NLG and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NG (Figure S12f). Furthermore, in order to further explore the intrinsic ORR activity,  $J_{\rm k}$  at 0.7 V (vs. (HE) was normalized to ECSA and catalyst mass respectively to obtain ORR specific and mass activities (Figure 3e). [43] Compared with other samples, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG has a significant improvement h both specific activities and mass activities, revealing that the synergistic effect between the pyridinic-N-Co coordination and the oxygen vacancies can effectively enhance the ORR intrinsic ctivity. Besides, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG also owns long-term stability and is superior to commercial Pt/C. In the chronoamperometric test, Ifter 20 hours of continuous polarization, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG retained 91.4% of its initial current density (Figure 3f). Additionally, Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG displays better methanol tolerance ability than Pt/C (Figure S13).

**Figure 3** (a) OER LSVs in  $O_2$ -saturated 1.0 M KOH of  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG,  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NG,  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NG, and  $NiCo_2O_4$ /NG. (b) Comparison of overpotential at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  and OER specific activity, corresponding to the kinetic current at 1.6 V (vs. RHE) normalized by electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of catalysts. (c) Stability of  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG and RuO $_2$ . The inset exhibits the LSVs of  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG before and after 20 h stability testing in 1.0 M KOH. (d) ORR LSVs in  $O_2$ -saturated 1.0 M KOH of  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG,  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG, and  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG. (e) Comparison of ORR specific and mass activities, corresponding to the kinetic current at 0.7 V (vs. RHE). (f) Stability of  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG and Pt/C. The inset shows the LSVs of  $NiCo_2O_4$ - $_x$ /NLG before and after 20 h stability testing in 1.0 M KOH.

The overall ORR/OER overpotential ( $\Delta E$ ), used as a key parameter to evaluate reverse oxygen electrocatalytic activity usually, is defined as the difference between the potential at the OER current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and the ORR half-wave potential ( $\Delta E = E_{j=10} - E_{1/2}$ ). As shown in Figure S14, the  $\Delta E$  of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG (0.67 V) is lower than Pt/C+RuO<sub>2</sub> (0.71 V), and is also superior to many recently reported Ni. Co-based ORR/OER bi-functional catalysts (Table S3), illustrating it owns excellent ORR/OER electrocatalytic performance. Finally, we exploited NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG as a catalyst for the air cathode in a rechargeable Zn-air battery (Figure 4a) and conducted a series of tests. Figure 4b displays the battery using NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4.x</sub>/NLG as a cathode catalyst provide a high open circuit voltage (≈ 1.49 V), which is much higher than the battery using Pt/C+RuO<sub>2</sub> (≈ 1.46 V). Moreover, the battery using Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG has higher discharge voltages and lower charging voltages, and exhibits a higher peak power density of 149 mW cm $^2$  (Figure 4c). Evidently, NiCo $_2$ O $_4$ - $_4$ /NLG displays a higher specific discharge capacity (695.5 mAh  $g_{Zn}^{-1}$ ) than Pt/C+RuO $_2$  (666.2 mAh g<sub>zn</sub><sup>-1</sup>) when the discharge current was maintained at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4d). In addition, current-cycle charge and discharge tests with a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> were performed to evaluate the durability of the batteries. Figure 4e reveals that the Ni-Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG cathode owns better durability than the Pt/C+RuO<sub>2</sub> cathode. The NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG cathode exhibits a low voltage gap of 0.711 V and an efficiency of 64.3% in the initial charge/discharge cycle (Figure S15). Remarkably, after the 160 h continuous cycle tests, its voltage gap only increased by 26 mV, and the last round-trip efficiency was 63.1%. The above test results indicate that NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-v</sub>/NLG is a promising high-efficiency OER/ORR electrocatalyst that could be applied to rechargeable Zn-air batteries.

**Figure 4** (a) Schematic diagram of the Zn-air battery. (b) Open-circuit plots. (c) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles and power density curves of NiCo $_2$ O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and Pt/C+RuO $_2$  catalyzed cathodes in 6.0 M KOH. (d) Specific capacity of NiCo $_2$ O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and Pt/C+RuO $_2$  catalyzed Zn-air batteries after mass normalization at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ . (e) Galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling curves at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  of batteries assembled with NiCo $_2$ O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG and Pt/C+RuO $_2$  (duration: 1200 s per cycle) in 6.0 M KOH.

#### **Conclusions**

In summary, we obtained NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/N-graphene hybrids with rich pyridinic-nitrogen-cobalt coordination and oxygen vacancies (NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG), which owns excellent OER/ORR electrocatalytic performance, via a combination of the hydrothermal method and pulsed laser irradiation. The synergistic effect between the pyridinic-N-Co coordination and the oxygen vacancies effectively enhance the OER/ORR intrinsic activities of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG. Moreover, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG exhibits better long-term stability than precious metal-based catalysts. When NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is applied as an oxygen electrode catalyst for Zn-air battery, it affords excellent charge/discharge performance.

# Experimental

The NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG hybrids were synthesized by the method of hydrothermal. Firstly, GO was prepared by the modified Hummer's method. [45] Then, the LI-PLI route [20] was used to create mesopore defects on the GO. GO was irradiated with laser of 270 mJ for 25 minutes to obtain mesoporous GO, denoted as LGO. Subsequently, LGO, Ni(CH<sub>3</sub>O<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O and Co(CH<sub>3</sub>O<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O (weight ratio LGO: Ni: Co = 1:10:20) were dispersed in 25 mL of absolute ethanol and 2 mL of deionized water, and then added 2 mL of NH<sub>3</sub>·H<sub>2</sub>O and heated with stir at 80 °C for 12 h. After that, the above mixed solution was transferred into a 50 mL autoclave, and heated at 150 °C for 3 h. The solution was washed with water and dried by lyophilization to obtain a powder, denoted as Ni-CO2O4/NLG. Then, the NiCO2O4/NLG powder was added to deionized water (3 mL of water per 1 mg of powder) and subject to the second laser irradiation with a lower energy of 80 mJ for 8 minutes. Finally, the as-obtained sample was dried by lyophilization, and denoted as NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG.

The contrast samples  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}+NLG$ ,  $NiCo_2O_4/NG$ ,  $NiCo_2O_4/NLG$ ,  $NiCo_2O_{4-x}/NG$  were also prepared. Particularly, 15 mg LGO was dispersed in 25 mL of absolute ethanol and 2 mL of deionized water, and added 2 mL of  $NH_3\cdot H_2O$ . Then, employing the hydrothermal method with the same parameters as shown above and dried by lyophilization to obtain a powder, denoted as NLG. Pristine  $NiCo_2O_4$  was prepared by using only  $Ni(CH_3O_2)_2\cdot 4H_2O$  and

 $\rm Co(CH_3O_2)_2\cdot 4H_2O$  (weight ratio Ni: Co = 1:2) and employing the hydrothermal method with the same parameters as shown above. NiCo\_2O\_4-x was obtained by laser irradiation of pristine NiCo\_2O\_4 with laser energy of 80 mJ for 8 minutes. NiCo\_2O\_4/NG was synthesized following similar procedures as NiCo\_2O\_4-x/NLG except that no laser irradiation treatments were adopted. NiCo\_2O\_4-x/NLG was synthesized following similar procedures as NiCo\_2O\_4-x/NLG except that the second laser irradiation was not adopted. NiCo\_2O\_4-x/NG was prepared via laser irradiation of NiCo\_2O\_4/NG with beam energy of 80 mJ for 8 minutes.

## **Supporting Information**

The supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cjoc.2021xxxxx.

# Acknowledgement

This work was financially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (51822106 and 51572188).

#### References

- [1] Seh, Z. W.; Kibsgaard, J.; Dickens, C. F.; Chorkendorff, I. B.; Norskov, J. K.; Jaramillo, T. F. Combining Theory and Experiment in Electrocatalysis: Insights into Materials Design. *Science* 2017, 355, eaad4998.
- [2] Yang, Y.; Luo, M.; Zhang, W.; Sun, Y.; Chen, X.; Guo, S. Metal Surface and Interface Energy Electrocatalysis: Fundamentals, Performance Engineering, and Opportunities. Chem 2018, 4, 2054-2083.
- [3] Chang, Z. W.; Meng, F. L.; Zhong, H. X.; Zhang, X. B. Anchoring Iron-EDTA Complex on Graphene toward the Synthesis of Highly Efficient Fe-N-C Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalyst for Fuel Cells. Chin. J. Chem. 2018, 36, 287-292.
- [4] Chen, X.; Zhou, Z.; Karahan, H. E.; Shao, Q.; Wei, L.; Chen, Y. Recent Advances in Materials and Design of Electrochemically Rechargeable Zinc-Air Batteries. Small 2018, 14, 1801929.
- [5] Zhang, Z.; Deng, Y. P.; Xing, Z.; Luo, D.; Sy, S.; Cano, Z. P.; Liu, G.; Jiang, Y.; Chen, Z. "Ship in a Bottle" Design of Highly Efficient Bifunctional Electrocatalysts for Long-Lasting Rechargeable Zn-Air Batteries. ACS Nano 2019, 13, 7062-7072.
- [6] Cai, X.; Lai, L.; Lin, J.; Shen, Z. Recent Advances in Air Electrodes for Zn-air Batteries: Electrocatalysis and Structural Design. *Mater. Horiz.* 2017, 4, 945-976.
- [7] Lee, D. U.; Pan, X.; Cano, Z.; Kashkooli, A. G.; Park, M. G.; Chen, Z. Recent Progress and Perspectives on Bi-functional Oxygen Electrocatalysts for Advanced Rechargeable Metal-air Batteries. J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 7107-7134.
- [8] Yang, D.; Zhang, L.; Yan, X.; Yao, X. Recent Progress in Oxygen Electrocatalysts for Zinc-Air Batteries. Small Methods 2017, 1, 1700209.
- [9] Wang, H. F.; Tang, C.; Zhang, Q. A Review of Precious-Metal-Free Bifunctional Oxygen Electrocatalysts: Rational Design and Applications in Zn-Air Batteries. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1803329.
- [10] Zhu, Y. P.; Guo, C.; Zheng, Y.; Qiao, S. Z. Engineering of Noble-Metal-Free Electrocatalysts for Efficient Energy Conversion Processes. Acc. Chem. Res. 2017, 50, 915-923.
- [11] Ji, D.; Fan, L.; Tao, L.; Sun, Y.; Li, M.; Yang, G.; Tran, T.; Ramakrishna, S.; Guo, S. The Kirkendall Effect for Engineering Oxygen Vacancy of Hollow Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Nanoparticles toward High-Performance Portable Zinc-air Batteries. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 13840-13844.
- [12] Yan, D.; Li, Y.; Huo, J.; Chen, R.; Dai, L.; Wang, S. Defect Chemistry of Nonprecious-Metal Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reactions. Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1606459.
- [13] Wang, Y.; Xiao, X.; Li, Q.; Pang, H. Synthesis and Progress of New Oxygen-Vacant Electrode Materials for High-Energy Rechargeable Battery Applications. Small 2018, 41, 1802193.

Report Zhong et al.

- [14] Cai, Z.; Bi, Y.; Hu, E.; Liu, W.; Dwarica, N.; Tian, Y.; Li, X.; Kuang, Y.; Li, Y.; Yang, X. Q.; Wang, H.; Sun, X. Single-crystalline Ultrathin Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Nanosheets with Massive Vacancy Defects for Enhanced Electrocatalysis. Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1701694.
- [15] Hirai, S.; Morita, K.; Yasuoka, K.; Shibuya, T.; Tojo, Y.; Kamihara, Y.; Miura, A.; Suzuki, H.; Ohno, T.; Matsuda, T.; Yagi, S. Oxygen Vacancy-originated Highly Active Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction. J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 15102-15109.
- [16] Zhou, Y.; Dong, C. K.; Han, L. L.; Yang, J.; Du, X. W. Top-Down Preparation of Active Cobalt Oxide Catalyst. *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 6699-6703.
  - 7] Dong, C.; Liu, Z. W.; Liu, J. Y.; Wang, W. C.; Cui, L.; Luo, R. C.; Guo, H. L.; Zheng, X. L.; Qiao, S. Z.; Du, X. W.; Yang, J. Modest Oxygen-Defective Amorphous Manganese-Based Nanoparticle Mullite with Superior Overall Electrocatalytic Performance for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. Small 2017, 13, 1603903.
- 18] Liu, Z. Q.; Cheng, H.; Li, N.; Ma, T. Y.; Su, Y. Z. ZnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Quantum Dots Anchored on Nitrogen-Doped Carbon Nanotubes as Reversible Oxygen Reduction/Evolution Electrocatalysts. Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 3777-3784
- 19] Pendashteh, A.; Palma, J.; Anderson, M.; Marcilla, R. NiCoMnO<sub>4</sub> Nanoparticles on N-doped Graphene: Highly Efficient Bifunctional Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction/Evolution Reactions. *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* 2017, 201, 241-252.
- 20] Wu, G.; Santandreu, A.; Kellogg, W.; Gupta, S.; Ogoke, O.; Zhang, H.; Wang, H. L.; Dai, L. Carbon Nanocomposite Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Reactions: From nitrogen doping to transition-metal addition. *Nano Energy* 2016, 29, 83-110.
- [21] Wang, X. R.; Liu, J. Y.; Liu, Z. W.; Wang, W. C.; Lu, J.; Han, X. P.; Du, X. W.; Qiao, S. Z.; Yang, J. Identifying the Key Role of Pyridinic-N-Co Bonding in Synergistic Electrocatalysis for Reversible ORR/OER. Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1800005.
- 22] Qin, J. Y.; Liu, Z. W.; Wu, D. Y.; Yang, J. Optimizing the Electronic Structure of Cobalt via Synergized Oxygen Vacancy and Co-N-C to Boost Reversible Oxygen Electrocatalysis for Rechargeable Zn-air Batteries. Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2020, 278, 119300.
- [23] Gu, J.; Du, Z.; Zhang, C.; Yang, S. Pyridinic Nitrogen-Enriched Carbon Nanogears with Thin Teeth for Superior Lithium Storage. Adv. Energy Mater. 2016, 6, 1600917.
  - 4] Yuan, H.; Li, J.; Yang, W.; Zhuang, Z.; Zhao, Y.; He, L.; Xu, L.; Liao, X.; Zhu, R.; Mai, L. Oxygen Vacancy-Determined Highly Efficient Oxygen Reduction in NiCo₂O₄/Hollow Carbon Spheres. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 16410-16417.
- 25] Arenal, R.; March, K.; Ewels, C. P.; Rocquefelte, X.; Kociak, M.; Loiseau, A.; Stephan, O. Atomic Configuration of Nitrogen-Doped Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes. Nano Lett. 2014, 14, 5509-5516.
- 26] Gao, J.; Wang, Y.; Wu, H. H.; Liu, X.; Wang, L. L.; Yu, Q. L.; Li, A. W.; Wang, H.; Song, C. Q.; Gao, Z. R.; Peng, M.; Zhang, M. T. Ma, N.; Wang, J. O.; Zhou, W.; Wang, G. X.; Yin, Z.; Ma, D.; Construction of a sp<sup>3</sup>/sp<sup>2</sup> Carbon Interface in 3D N-Doped Nanocarbons for the Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 2019, 58, 15089-15097.
- 27] Keast, V. J.; Scott, A. J.; Brydson, R.; Williams, D. B.; Bruley, J. Electron Energy-loss Near-edge Structure-a Tool for the Investigation of Electronic Structure on the Nanometre Scale. *Journal of Microscopy*. 2001, 203, 135-175.
- 28] Zhao, Y.; He, D. W.; Daemen, L. L.; Shen, T. D.; Schwarz, R. B.; Zhu, Y.; Bish, D. L. Superhard B-C-N Materials Synthesized in Nanostructured Bulks. J. Mater. Res. 2002, 17, 3139-3145.
- [29] Feng, T.; Zhao, X. R.; Dong, C. K.; Liu, H.; Du, X. W.; Yang, J. Boosting Reversible Oxygen Electrocatalysis with Enhanced Interfacial Pyridinic-N-Co Bonding in Cobalt Oxide/mesoporous N-doped Graphene Hybrids. Nanoscale 2018, 10, 22140-22147.
- [30] Sharifi-Asl, S.; Soto, F. A.; Nie, A.; Yuan, Y.; Asayesh-Ardakani, H.; Foroozan, T.; Yurkiv, V.; Song, B.; Mashayek, F.; Klie, R. F.; Amine, K.; Lu,

- J.; Balbuena, P. B.; Shahbazian-Yassar, R. Facet-Dependent Thermal Instability in LiCoO<sub>2</sub>. *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, 2165-2171.
- [31] Yan, P. F.; Zheng, J. M.; Zhang, J. G.; Wang, C. M. Atomic Resolution Structural and Chemical Imaging Revealing the Sequential Migration of Ni, Co, and Mn upon the Battery Cycling of Layered Cathode. *Nano Lett.* 2017, 17, 3946-3951.
- [32] Jia, Y.; Zhang, L.; Du, A.; Gao, G.; Chen, J.; Yan, X.; Brown, C. L.; Yao, X. Defect Graphene as a Trifunctional Catalyst for Electrochemical Reactions. Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 9532-9538.
- [33] Zeng, Y.; Lai, Z.; Han, Y.; Zhang, H.; Xie, S.; Lu, X. Oxygen-Vacancy and Surface Modulation of Ultrathin Nickel Cobaltite Nanosheets as a High-Energy Cathode for Advanced Zn-Ion Batteries. Adv. Mater. 2018. 30, 1802396.
- [34] Xiao, Z.; Wang, Y.; Huang, Y. C.; Wei, Z.; Dong, C. L.; Ma, J. M.; Shen, S.; Li, Y.; Wang, S. Filling the Oxygen Vacancies in Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> with Phosphorus: An Ultra-efficient Electrocatalyst for Overall Water Splitting. Energy Environ. Sci. 2017, 10, 2563-2569.
- [35] Bao, J.; Zhang, X. D.; Fan, B.; Zhang, J. J.; Zhou, M.; Yang, W. L.; Hu, X.; Wang, H.; Pan, B. C.; Xie, Y. Ultrathin Spinel-Structured Nanosheets Rich in Oxygen Deficiencies for Enhanced Electrocatalytic Water Oxidation. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 2015, 54, 7399-7404.
- [36] Peng, S. J.; Gong, F.; Li, L. L.; Yu, D. S.; Ji, D. X.; Zhan, T. R.; Hu, Z.; Zhang, Z. Q.; Chou, S. L.; Du, Y. H.; Ramakrishna, S. Necklace-like Multishelled Hollow Spinel Oxides with Oxygen Vacancies for Efficient Water Electrolysis. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 13644-13653.
- [37] Zhuang, L.; Jia, Y.; He, T.; Du, A.; Yan, X.; Ge, L.; Zhu, Z.; Yao, X. Tuning Oxygen Vacancies in Two-dimensional Iron-cobalt Oxide Nanosheets through Hydrogenation for Enhanced Oxygen Evolution Activity. Nano Res. 2018, 11, 3509-3518.
- [38] Zheng, Y.; Li, Y.; Wu, T.; Zhang, W.; Zhu, J.; Li, Z.; Chen, J.; Yu, B.; Wang, J.; Zhang, J. Oxygen Reduction Kinetic Enhancements of Intermediate-temperature SOFC Cathodes with Novel Nd<sub>0.5</sub>S<sub>r<sub>0.5</sub>CoO<sub>3-6</sub>/Nd<sub>0.8</sub>Sr<sub>1.2</sub>CoO<sub>4±6</sub> Heterointerfaces. *Nano Energy* **2018**, 51. 711-720.</sub>
- [39] Choi, K.; Moon, I. K.; Oh, J. An Efficient Amplification Strategy for N-doped NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> with Oxygen Vacancies and Partial Ni/Co-nitrides as a Dual-function Electrode for Both Supercapatteries and Hydrogen Electrocatalysis. J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 1468-1478.
- [40] Huang, Z. F.; Wang, J.; Peng, Y.; Jung, C. Y.; Fisher, A.; Wang, X. Design of Efficient Bifunctional Oxygen Reduction/Evolution Electrocatalyst: Recent Advances and Perspectives. Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1700544.
- [41] Suen, N. T.; Hung, S. F.; Quan, Q.; Zhang, N.; Xu, Y. J.; Chen, H. M. Electrocatalysis for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction: Recent Development and Future Perspectives. *Chem. Soc. Rev.* 2017, 46, 337-365.
- [42] Shao, M.; Chang, Q.; Dodelet, J. P.; Chenitz, R. Recent Advances in Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Chem. Rev.* 2016, 116, 3594-3657.
- [43] Montoya, J. H.; Seitz, L. C.; Chakthranont, P.; Vojvodic, A.; Jaramillo, T. F.; Nørskov, J. K. Materials for Solar Fuels and Chemicals. *Nat. Mater.* 2017, 16, 70-81.
- [44] Kuang, M.; Zheng, G. Nanostructured Bifunctional Redox Electrocatalysts. *Small* **2016**, *12*, 5656-5675.
- [45] Zheng, Y.; Jiao, Y.; Ge, L.; Jaroniec, M.; Qiao, S. Z. Two-Step Boron and Nitrogen Doping in Graphene for Enhanced Synergistic Catalysis. *Angew. Chem.* 2013, 125, 3192-3198.

(The following will be filled in by the editorial staff)

Manuscript received: XXXX, 2021 Manuscript revised: XXXX, 2021 Manuscript accepted: XXXX, 2021 Accepted manuscript online: XXXX, 2021 Version of record online: XXXX, 2021

# **Entry for the Table of Contents**

An Active Hybrid Electrocatalyst with Synergized Pyridinic-Nitrogen-Cobalt and Oxygen Vacancies for Bifunctional Oxygen Reduction and **Evolution** 

Wen-Xin Zhong, Xue-Ru Zhao, Jia-Yi Qin, Jing Yang\*

Chin. J. Chem. 2021, 39, XXX—XXX. DOI: 10.1002/cjoc.202100XXX

A hybrid bifunctional oxygen reduction reaction (ORR)/oxygen evolution reaction (OER) NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG with rich pyridinic-nitrogen-cobalt coordination and oxygen vacancies was synthesized via a combination of the hydrothermal method and pulsed laser irradiation. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG exhibits an excellent catalytic activity with a low overpotential of 290 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for OER and a high half-wave potential of 0.85 V for ORR. As a result, the overall ORR/OER overpotential of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is only 0.67 V in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte, which is superior to commercial noble-metal-based catalysts (Pt/C+RuO<sub>2</sub>). It is evidenced that the enhanced intrinsic OER and ORR activities of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-x</sub>/NLG is attributed to a synergistic effect between the pyridinic-N-Co coordination and the oxygen vacancies. This work provides a new design strategy for enhancing the intrinsic activity of bifunctional ORR/OER electrocatalysts.