---
source: Zhong 等 - 2019 - A Phthalocyanine‐Based Layered Two‐Dimensional Conjugated Metal–Organic Framework as a Highly Effici.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.953s
generated: 2026-01-09T14:26:05.075146Z
---

## **Akzeptierter Artikel**

Titel: Phthalocyanine-based Layered Two-Dimensional Conjugated Metal-Organic Framework as Highly Efficient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction

Autoren: Haixia Zhong, Khoa Hoang Ly, Mingchao Wang, Yulia Krupskaya, Xiaocang Han, Jichao Zhang, Jian Zhang, Vladislav Kataev, Bernd Büchner, Inez M. Weidinger, Stefan Kaskel, Pan Liu, Mingwei Chen, Renhao Dong, and Xinliang Feng

Dieser Beitrag wurde nach Begutachtung und Überarbeitung sofort als "akzeptierter Artikel" (Accepted Article; AA) publiziert und kann unter Angabe der unten stehenden Digitalobjekt-Identifizierungsnummer (DOI) zitiert werden. Die deutsche Übersetzung wird gemeinsam mit der endgültigen englischen Fassung erscheinen. Die endgültige englische Fassung (Version of Record) wird ehestmöglich nach dem Redigieren und einem Korrekturgang als Early-View-Beitrag erscheinen und kann sich naturgemäß von der AA-Fassung unterscheiden. Leser sollten daher die endgültige Fassung, sobald sie veröffentlicht ist, verwenden. Für die AA-Fassung trägt der Autor die alleinige Verantwortung.

**Zitierweise:** Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 10.1002/anie.201907002 Angew. Chem. 10.1002/ange.201907002

Link zur VoR: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201907002 http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201907002

# **Phthalocyanine-based Layered Two-Dimensional Conjugated Metal-Organic Framework as Highly Efficient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**

Haixia Zhong,[a] Khoa Hoang Ly, [a] Mingchao Wang,[a] Yulia Krupskaya, [b] Xiaocang Han[c] , Jichao Zhang,[d] Jian Zhang,[a] Vladislav Kataev, [b] Bernd Büchner, [b] Inez M. Weidinger,[a] Stefan Kaskel, [a] Pan Liu,[c,e] Mingwei Chen,[c,f] Renhao Dong\*[a] and Xinliang Feng\* [a]

**Abstract:** Layered two-dimensional (2D) conjugated metalorganic frameworks (MOFs) represent a family of rising electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), due to the controllable architectures, excellent electrical conductivity and highly exposed well-defined molecular active sites. Herein, we report a copper-phthalocyanine-based 2D conjugated MOF with square planar cobalt-bis(dihydroxy) complexes (Co-O4) as linkages (PcCu-O8-Co) and layer-stacked structures via solvothermal synthesis. PcCu-O8-Co 2D MOF mixed with carbon nanotubes exhibits excellent electrocatalytic ORR activity (E1/2=0.83 V vs. RHE, n=3.93, and *j*L=5.3 mA cm-2 ) in alkaline media, which is the record value among the reported intrinsic MOF electrocatalysts. Supported by *in-situ* Raman spectroelectrochemistry and theoretical modelling as well as contrast catalytic tests, we identified the cobalt nodes as ORR active sites. Furthermore, when employed as cathode electrocatalyst for zincair battery, PcCu-O8-Co delivers a maximum power density of 94 mW cm-2 , outperforming the state-of-the-art Pt/C (78.3 mW cm-2 ).

Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), one class of highly ordered crystalline coordination polymer with well-defined porous network, are formed by metal ion/cluster and organic ligands.[1, 2] Due to the diversity in composition/structure, high surface area, chemical/thermal stability, etc., MOFs have achieved versatile

[a] Dr. H. Zhong, Dr. K. H. Ly, Mr. M. Wang, Dr. J. Zhang, Prof. I. M. Weidinger, Prof. S. Kaskel, Dr. R. Dong, Prof. X. Feng Faculty of Chemistry and Food Chemistry & Center for Advancing Electronics Dresden, Technische Universität Dresden Dresden, 01062, Germany

E-mail: renhao.dong@tu-dresden.de; xinliang.feng@tu-dresden.de [b] Dr. Y. Krupskaya, Dr. V. Kataev, Prof. B. Büchner Leibnitz Institute for Solid State and Materials Research, IFW, Helmholtzstraße 20, Dresden, 01069 Germany

[c] Ms. X. Han, Prof. P. Liu, Prof. M. Chen State Key Laboratory of Metal Matrix Composites, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai, 200240, China

[d] Dr. J. C. Zhang Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Shanghai Advanced Research Institute, Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 201204, China

[e] Prof. P. Liu Shanghai Key Laboratory of Advanced High-temperature Materials and Precision Forming, School of Materials Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, China

[f] Prof. M. Chen Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, 21214, USA

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under

opportunities in broad fields including gas separation/storage, sensor, and catalysis.[3-8] Recently, MOFs have been rising as a fascinating family of electrocatalysts with both homogeneous and heterogeneous advantages: the well-defined structures and readily accessible active sites can be tuned at the molecular level to improve the catalytic performance and also enable the MOFs to serve as model systems for fundamental understanding of catalytic mechanism. Recently, various MOFs, such as [Cu2(OH)(bpy)2(btc)3], [Fe2(Fe(tcpp))Cl], [Cu3(btc)2(H2O)3] and [Co(mim)2], have been explored as oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) electrocatalysts.[2,9-12] However, great challenges still plagued on the conventional MOFs including electrical insulators and blockage of metal centers by organic ligands, resulting in their inferior activity (half-wave potential E1/2 <0.8 V vs RHE) and dramatically limit their broader applications in electrocatalysis. Pyrolysis of MOFs into metal- and heteroatom-doped porous carbons has been widely demonstrated to improve the catalytic activity.[2,13,14] However, this method has to sacrifice the welldefined molecular active sites.[15]

In order to address these challenges, development of conductive two-dimensional (2D) conjugated MOFs, *i.e.*, atomically ordered, planar metal-organic networks along 2D directions with fully in-plane *π-*delocalization and weak out-plane *π*-*π* stacking, is of great significance in electrocatalysis. This is due to their unique 2D features as well as improved electron transfer capacity and high utilization of exposed active sites apart from the inherited advantages of traditional MOFs.[13, 14, 16-24] Particularly, such MOFs can provide an ideal platform for mechanism investigations of the ORR process, which is essential for rational electrocatalyst design.[25-27] Recently, a Ni3(hexaiminotriphenylene)<sup>2</sup> 2D MOF with Ni-N<sup>4</sup> active sites was demonstrated as ORR electrocatalyst with onset potential of 0.82 V vs. RHE in alkaline media. The 2D porous structure ensures the fast mass transport while the defined active sites (Ni-N4) effectively catalyze the ORR. [17] Apart from the M-Nx, [28] the catalytic activity of M-O<sup>x</sup> sites with unique electronic structures is intrinsically high for electrocatalytic ORR.[29] For instance, perovskites (e.g. LaCO3) and AB2O<sup>4</sup> spinel with Co-O<sup>x</sup> sites possessing a single electron occupation of the e<sup>g</sup> orbital of Co atom show comparable ORR performance with platinum-based electrocatalysts. [29-30] Such Co-O<sup>x</sup> sites effectively promote the breaking of the M-OH- bond as well as the O<sup>2</sup> 2– /OH- exchange reaction.[29-31] Therefore, incorporating molecular Co-O<sup>x</sup> complexes structures within the highly conductive 2D conjugated MOFs hints at the promise for achieving superior catalytic ORR activity for fuel cells and metal-air batteries.

Herein, we synthesized *2,3,9,10,16,17,23,24*-octahydroxy phthalocyaninato copper **(**PcCu-(OH)8**)** as the building block to construct copper-phthalocyanine-based 2D conjugated MOF with

## WILEY-VCH

### COMMUNICATION

cobalt-bis(dihydroxy) complexes (Co-O<sub>4</sub>) as linkages (PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co) by solvothermal method. Such 2D MOF PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co features a highly crystalized structure and optimized spin state of the cobalt node, wherein the unpaired electron in the  $\sigma^*$  anti-bonding orbital (e<sub>0</sub>=1) in cobalt node enables Co-O<sub>4</sub> centers with high ORR activity. [27-29] The as-prepared PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co, hybridized with carbon nanotubes (PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNTs) affords superior ORR activity ( $E_{1/2}$ =0.83 V vs. RHE, n=3.93, and  $j_L$ =5.3 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) in alkaline media compared with other reported intrinsic MOF catalysts due to high coverage of electrochemically active Co sites, high conductivity and porous structure. The in-situ Raman spectroscopy was employed to probe the Co-O<sub>4</sub> centers and their interaction with the oxygen intermediates during the ORR process, verifying that the Co-O units act as catalytic active sites. Finally, we employed PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co in the zinc-air battery, which exhibited promising discharge performance and capacity, superior to the commercial Pt/C.

PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co 2D conjugated MOF (Figure 1a) was synthesized via linking PcCu-(OH)<sub>8</sub> monomers by square planar, conjugated  $\text{Co-O}_4$  linkages (Scheme S1). The successful preparation of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co was confirmed by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements (Figure S1 and 1b). Compared with the monomer (PcCu-(OH)<sub>8</sub>), the peak of the C-O stretching vibration shifts from 1288 (C-O-H) to 1270 cm<sup>-1</sup> (C-O-Co) due to the Co-O bond formation in PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co accompanied by the disappearance of the peak of the C-O-H bending mode at 630 cm<sup>-1</sup>.[32] XRD pattern of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co reveals a highly crystalline structure with prominent (100), (110), (200) and (001) peaks at 5.1°, 7.2°, 10.1° and 27.5°(Figure 1b), respectively. These intensive peaks indicate that PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co exhibits a long-range order within the ab plane and layer stacking structure along the c direction (001).[33, <sup>34]</sup> We performed DFT calculations to optimize the atomic structure of single layer 2D MOF and then simulated different stacking arrangements of layer-stacked PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co, e.g., AA, AA-inclined, AA-serrated and AB stacking modes. The DFT results show that AA-serrated stacking geometry is energetically favored. The calculated Power-XRD pattern agrees well with the experimental result (Figure 1b). High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image (Figures 1c-d) and the corresponding selected area (electron) diffraction image (inset Figure 1c) manifest a PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co architecture based on a repeated unit size of ~1.75 nm. Besides, TEM and scanning electron microscope (SEM) images (Figure 1c and S2-3) display stacked nanosheets in PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co. The corresponding element mapping analysis indicates a homogeneous distribution of Cu, Co, N, O and C elements over the whole structure (Figure S4).

The porous property of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co was evaluated by low-pressure  $N_2$  adsorption measurement at 77 K. As shown in Figure 1e, a sharp uptake in the low relative pressure and a relative loose at 0.6-1.0 P/P<sub>0</sub> are observed for PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co with a Brunauer–Emmett–Teller surface area of 412 m²/g. According to the pore-size distribution, the presence of micro-pore (1.5 nm) and meso-pore (2-10 nm) is evident in PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co, which are both favorable for the  $O_2$  and electrolyte transport during the ORR process. XPS analysis (Figure 1f and S5) was performed to investigate the composition of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co, revealing the presence of Cu, Co, N, O and C elements in the sample. The high-resolution Cu 2p XPS spectrum shows two sets of peaks at 936.7

and 953.8 eV, assignable to Cu  $2p_{3/2}$  and Cu  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively (Figure 1f) revealing the oxidation state of +2 for Cu. [35, 36] The binding energy of Co  $2p_{3/2}$  and Co  $2p_{1/2}$  is observed at 781.6 and 796.9 eV, respectively, which suggests the presence of Co (II). [18, 37] The satellite peaks appear at the high energy side of Co  $2p_{3/2}$  and Co  $2p_{1/2}$  levels, respectively, revealing the antibonding orbital between Co atom and O atom. [35, 38] Importantly, such phenomenon also suggests that the electronic configuration of Co is relevant to  $t_{2g}^{6}e_{g}^{1}$ , which is near the optimal  $e_{g}$  filling of 1 and favorable for high electrocatalytic activity toward ORR. [29, 30]

**Figure 1.** (a) Schematic structure of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-M (Red: O, blue: carbon, white: hydrogen, brown: Cu, green: metal atoms, M=Co, Fe, Ni, Cu); (b) Experimental (red line) and simulated (black line) XRD patterns of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co; (c, d) TEM images of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co (inset: selected area electron diffraction image); (e)  $N_2$  adsorption and desorption isotherm of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co (Insets: the corresponding pore distribution); (f) Co and Cu 2p XPS spectra of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co.

The chemical states of Co and Cu atoms in PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co that were further determined by the X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) analysis (Figure 2a). [39-41] Cu K-edge of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co and the monomer {PcCu-(OH)<sub>8</sub>} present similar spectra, resembling the reference compound (Copper(II) phthalocyanine: PcCu) due to the same common Cu-N motif. These spectra distinctly differ to those of Cu foil and CuO, confirming the Cu-N bonding in PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co structure. In the Co K-edge spectra, the pre-edge at 7709 eV originates from the absorption transition from 1s to 3d. Due to the electronic transition from 1s to 4p, the strong absorption peak (white line) appears, which is the typical feature of Co atom with different Co-O environments and oxidation states. [40,42] PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co, CoO and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> show strong absorption intensity in white line, while Co foil exhibits a very weak white line

WILEY-VCH

### COMMUNICATION

feature (Figure 2b). [40, 41] In addition, the absorption peak of white line of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co locates before that of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and close to CoO, indicating its oxidation valence of Co atom as +2, which is consistent with XPS results. In order to investigate the electronic configuration of Co and the magnetic properties of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co, high-field electron spin resonance (ESR) and static magnetization M measurements were performed (Figures 2c-d and S6). [42] In the representative ESR spectrum (Figure 2c), the main peak with the g-factor g=2.04 and a shoulder with g=2.16 correspond to the Cu(II) ions while the less pronounced features with g=2.19 and 2.05 can be tentatively assigned to ESR of Co(II) ions in the lowspin state S=1/2 (see SI for details). The analysis of static magnetic susceptibility (Figure 2d) reveals the Curie constant C=1.8 emuOe<sup>-1</sup>mol<sup>-1</sup>K indicating that the major part of the Co(II) ions in PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co is in the low spin state S=1/2 (see SI for details). It is thus clear that the one unpaired electron is in e<sub>a</sub> orbital of Co (t2q6eq1) for the 2D MOF, accelerating the ORR kinetics.[29]

**Figure 2.** (a) XANES spectra of Cu K-edge of Cu foil, CuO, PcCu, PcCu-(OH)<sub>8</sub> and PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co; (b) XANES spectra of Co K-edge of Co foil, CoO, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co; (c) Temperature dependence of the ESR spectrum obtained for PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co at the excitation frequency v of 370 GHz. (d) Temperature dependence of the inverse static magnetic susceptibility  $\chi$ -1(T) of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co (symbols). Black solid line represents the fit of the experimental data (at T > 150 K) to the Curie-Weiss law. Inset: temperature dependence of the product  $\chi$ T.

Next, we mixed the synthetic  $PcCu-O_8-Co$  with CNTs (w/w=2/1) as ORR electrocatalyst in alkaline media, wherein CNTs are used to improve the overall conductivity of the ORR electrode. Firstly, Cyclic voltammetry (CV) was conducted for assessing the ORR catalytic activity of  $PcCu-O_8-Co/CNT$ . When the electrolyte was saturated with  $O_2$ , a typical cathodic peak at 0.83 V vs. RHE was observed in **Figure 3a**, pronouncing its high ORR activity. Furthermore, the catalytic activity of  $PcCu-O_8-Co/CNT$  was evaluated by ORR polarization measurements. Figure 3b shows the half-wave potential ( $E_{1/2}$ ) of  $PcCu-O_8-Co/CNT$  is 0.83 V vs. RHE, which is close to the commercial Pt/C (Figure S7,  $E_{1/2}=0.85$  V vs. RHE). Furthermore, the contrast samples including  $PcCu-(OH)_8/CNT$  and  $PcCu-O_8-M/CNT$  (M=Fe, Cu and Ni) were synthesized and evaluated for ORR (Figure 3c,

S8, and Table S1). PcCu-(OH)<sub>8</sub>/CNT presented inferior E<sub>1/2</sub> (0. 63 V vs. RHE) compared to that of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Ni/CNT (0.67 V vs. RHE), PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Cu/CNT (0.69 V vs. RHE), PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Fe/CNT (0.75 V vs. RHE) and PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT due to the saturated CuN<sub>4</sub> is inert in electrocatalytic ORR, [43-45] suggesting CuN<sub>4</sub> sites were not the dominant while MO<sub>4</sub> are active center. Notably, the 2D MOF with CoO<sub>4</sub> units show the best ORR performance among these samples, implying the superiority of optimal CoO4 with the presence of single eq in enhancing the ORR catalytic activity. To investigate the effects of CuN4, we also synthesized Pc-O8-Co/CNT (Figure S9-10). It exhibited lower E<sub>1/2</sub> (0. 70 V vs. RHE) compared to PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNTs (Figure 3c), revealing the synergistic effects of CuN4 and CoO4 in promoting the catalytic activity of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT. Moreover, the high ORR catalytic activity of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT is also gleaned from its large limited current density (5.3 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) at 1600 rpm, which is much better than the currently reported MOFs and comparable with the other cobalt related electrocatalysts (Table S2), thus revealing the superiority of 2D MOF as ORR electrocatalyst. The high ORR performance is attributed to its highly ordered and 2D conjugated porous structure as well as abundant exposed active Co-O sites (Γο=34.2 umol cm<sup>-2</sup>, Figure S11). Its Tafel slope (Figure S12a) was calculated to be 61 mV dec-1 at low current density, similar to that of Pt/C (68 mV dec-1), indicating that transfer of the first electron catalyzed by PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT is the rate-determining step at room temperature as the Tafel slope is closed to -2.303RT/αF (≈60 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, R, T, a and F are the molar gas constant, absolute temperature, transfer coefficient and Faraday constant, respectively).[46]

To further investigate ORR kinetics, rotating disc electrode (RDE) measurement at different rotating speeds were carried out and the corresponding Koutecký-Levich (K-L) plots were acquired. Inset figure 3b shows the linear and near parallel K-L plots at different applied potentials, implying a first-order reaction kinetics toward the concentration of dissolved oxygen and a similar electron transfer number (n) at PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT.[47] n is calculated 3.93 at 0.4 V vs. RHE, suggesting that PcCu-O8-Co/CNT prefers a 4e oxygen reduction process. The corresponding kinetic current density (Jk, Figure S12b) is 20.1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is even higher than that of Pt/C (14 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating its intrinsic superior ORR activity. More importantly, only little changes of  $E_{1/2}$  (16 mV) were found for PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT after 5000 ORR cycles, while Pt/C showed 40 mV shift of E<sub>1/2</sub>, highlighting the better ORR stability of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT (Figure 3d and S7). In addition, XRD and SEM measurements (Figure S13) of PcCu-O<sub>8</sub>-Co/CNT after 5000 ORR cycles demonstrated that no obvious changes in its morphology and structure occurred, suggesting its excellent ORR stability.

As another contrast, CNT support (Figure S14) exhibited extremely low ORR catalytic activity in term of the E $_{1/2}$  (0.62 V vs. RHE) and  $j_{\rm L}$  (2.6 mA cm $^2$ ), revealing the role of CNTs on enhancing the effective electron transfer between PcCu-O $_8$ -Co/CNT and RDE electrode. Figure S16b showed Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) result suggests its sufficiently fast electron transfer during the ORR process. Due to the good catalytic activity of PcCu-O $_8$ -Co/CNT in alkaline media, we further applied it as the air electrocatalyst for primary zinc-air battery. The assembled zinc-air battery showed superior performance with open circuit voltage of 1.37 V, discharge current

density of 120 mA cm-2 at 0.8 V and maximum power density of 94 mW cm-2 (Figures 3e-f), which are superior to those of Pt/C (95.5 mA cm-2 and 76.4mW cm-2 , respectively, Figures S17-18), The capacity of the primary battery with PcCu-O8-Co/CNT as air catalyst was about 700 mAh gZn -1 . And the constructed battery series were able to power LED (Light-emitting diode) lights for more than one week (Figure S19). Therefore, the high catalytic activity and stability of PcCu-O8-Co/CNT, as well as its good performance in Zinc-air battery confirm its feasibility as effective ORR electrocatalyst.

**Figure 3.** (a) CV curves of PcCu-O8-Co/CNT in N2- and O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH; (b) ORR polarization curves of PcCu-O8-Co/CNT at different rotating speeds (Inset: The corresponding K-L plots of PcCu-O8-Co/CNT); (c) ORR polarization curves of PcCu-(OH)8-CNT, Pc-O8-Co/CNT and PcCu-O8-Co/CNT; (d) ORR polarization curves before and after CV cycles. (e) Discharge curve and power density of Zinc-air battery with PcCu-O8-Co/CNT as ORR catalyst; (f) Specific capacity of Zinc-air battery with PcCu-O8-Co/CNT as ORR catalyst.

Density functional theory (DFT) calculation illustrated that the Co sites in the linkages display high adsorption energy towards the intermediate OOH- during the ORR progress compared to Cu-N (**Figures 4a** and S20, Table S3), implying Co-O units as the ORR active sites.[47, 48] *In-situ* Raman spectro-electrochemistry was employed to monitor the reactions under turnover conditions. Figure 4b shows the Raman spectra at different applied potentials in O<sup>2</sup> saturated 0.1 M KOH. The spectral pattern in the frequency range from 400 to 1600 cm-1 of PcCu-O8-Co/CNT are identical before (0 V vs. Ag/AgCl) and after (0 V vs. Ag/AgCl) ORR testing, corroborating the high stability of PcCu-O8-Co/CNT. When the asprepared PcCu-O8-Co/CNT electrode was immersed into the alkaline electrolyte, two peaks appeared at 384 and 517 cm-1 , which were ascribed to the adsorption of OH species on the cobalt

center to form Co-OH species.[49] The intensity of these two peaks decreased with the increased applied overpotential (-0.2 to -0.6 V vs. Ag/AgCl), potentially originating from the interaction of the oxygen intermediates and cobalt metal center under turnover potentials. In addition, the peak at 451 cm-1 , assigned to Co (II)- O, gradually disappeared with increase in overpotential due to conversion of Co (II) to Co(III) species during the ORR reaction process.[50] Accordingly, a new peak at 691 cm-1 was observed during the ORR process, which is assigned to the Co-O(III) oxygen intermediate. [51, 53] The intensity of this peak increased with the applied overpotential indicating much more accumulation of oxygen intermediates under larger overpotential. Therefore, the combination of the theoretical calculation and *in-situ* Raman spectro-electrochemistry corroborate that the Co-O centers in the PcCu-O8-Co 2D MOF act as the catalytic active sites for ORR. A proposed ORR mechanism based on the derived data is shown in Figure 4d.

**Figure 4.** (a) The differential charge density image of PcCu-O8-Co with the OOHintermediates on Co-O sites (red: oxygen; brown: carbon, light blue: copper, the dark blue: cobalt; white: hydrogen; grey: nitrogen, the iso-surface value is 0.001 e Å-3 .); (b-c) *in-situ* Raman analysis during ORR process: (d) the proposed reaction process.

In conclusion, we have developed a 2D conjugated MOF. The well-defined Co-O centers with the specific electronic configuration (single occupied e<sup>g</sup> orbitals), highly ordered porous framework and 2D conjugated structures synergistically contribute to the high ORR performance, which is superior to other reported intrinsic MOFs electrocatalysts. Through theoretical modelling and *in-situ* Raman spectro-electrochemical studies, Co centers were verified as the catalytic sites. In addition, the as-prepared 2D MOF proved to work as ORR electrocatalyst in a zinc-air battery device with an excellent discharge performance and capacity, which is even superior to commercial Pt/C systems. Our work highlights the 2D conjugated MOFs as effective electrocatalysts and verify that optimizing the

architecture and electronic structure of 2D MOF is an effective strategy to develop highly active electrocatalyst toward ORR.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work is financially supported from EU Graphene Flagship, ERC T2DCP, Coordination Networks: Building Blocks for Functional Systems (SPP 1928, COORNET), as well as the German Science Council and Center of Advancing Electronics Dresden (cfaed). H.X.Z. gratefully acknowledges funding from China Scholarship Council and Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst German Academic Exchange Service, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. I.M.W. acknowledges the Cluster of Excellence UniSysCat. We acknowledge Dresden Center for Nanoanalysis (DCN) at TUD, Dr. Petr Formanek (Leibniz Institute for Polymer Research, IPF, Dresden) for the use of facilities. We also like to appreciate the helpful discussion from Dr. Zhongquan Liao, Mr. Zhiyong Wang and Dr. Chongqing Yang. We thank the beamline BL14W1 and BL15U1 of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility for the XAFS measurements.

**Keywords:** metal-organic framework • two dimensional• electrocatalysts • oxygen reduction reaction • catalytic sites

- [1] H. Furukawa, K. E. Cordova, M. O'Keeffe, O. M. Yaghi, *Science* **2013**, *341*, 1230444.
- [2] G. Li, S. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Z. Tang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, e1800702.
- [3] R. Dong, P. Han, H. Arora, M. Ballabio, M. Karakus, Z. Zhang, C. Shekhar, P. Adler, P. S. Petkov, A. Erbe, S. C. B. Mannsfeld, C. Felser, T. Heine, M. Bonn, X. Feng, E. Canovas, *Nat. Mater.* **2018**, *17*, 1027.
- [4] G. Maurin, C. Serre, A. Cooper, G. Ferey, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 3104.
- [5] M. L. Aubrey, B. M. Wiers, S. C. Andrews, T. Sakurai, S. E. Reyes-Lillo, S. M. Hamed, C.-J. Yu, L. E. Darago, J. A. Mason, J.-O. Baeg, F. Grandjean, G. J. Long, S. Seki, J. B. Neaton, P. Yang, J. R. Long, *Nat. Mater.* **2018**, *17*, 625.
- [6] N. Huang, K. Wang, H. Drake, P. Cai, J. Pang, J. Li, S. Che, L. Huang, Q. Wang, H. C. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 6383.
- [7] A. Kirchon, L. Feng, H. F. Drake, E. A. Joseph, H. C. Zhou, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 8611.
- [8] K. S. Pedersen, P. Perlepe, M. L. Aubrey, D. N. Woodruff, S. E. Reyes-Lillo, A. Reinholdt, L. Voigt, Z. Li, K. Borup, M. Rouzieres, D. Samohvalov, F. Wilhelm, A. Rogalev, J. B. Neaton, J. R. Long, R. Clerac, *Nat. Chem.*  **2018**, *10*, 1056.
- [9] M. Jahan, Q. Bao, K. P. Loh, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 6707.
- [10] J. Mao, L. Yang, P. Yu, X. Wei, L. Mao, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2012**, *19*, 29.
- [11] K. Cho, S.-H. Han, M. P. Suh, *Angew.Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 15301.
- [12] H. Wang, F.-X. Yin, B.-H. Chen, X.-B. He, P.-L. Lv, C.-Y. Ye, D.-J. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ* **2017**, *205*, 55.
- [13] P. Liao, J. Shen, J. Zhan, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *373*, 22.
- [14] J. Duan, S. Chen, C. Zhao, *Nat. Common.* **2017**, *8*, 15341.
- [15] J. Guo, C. Y. Lin, Z. Xia, Z. Xiang, *Angew.Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 12567.
- [16] R. Dong, M. Pfeffermann, H. Liang, Z. Zheng, X. Zhu, J. Zhang, X. Feng, Angew.Chem. Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 12058
- [17] E. M. Miner, T. Fukushima, D. Sheberla, L. Sun, Y. Surendranath, M. Dincă, *Nat. Common.* **2016**, *7*, 10942.
- [18] R. Dong, Z. Zheng, D. C. Tranca, J. Zhang, N. Chandrasekhar, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, G. Seifert, X. Feng, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2017**, *23*, 2255.

- [19] M. Zhao, Y. Huang, Y. Peng, Z. Huang, Q. Ma, H. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 6267.
- [20] D. Feng, T. Lei, M. R. Lukatskaya, J. Park, Z. Huang, M. Lee, L. Shaw, S. Chen, A. A. Yakovenko, A. Kulkarni, J. Xiao, K. Fredrickson, J. B. Tok, X. Zou, Y. Cui, Z. Bao, *Nat. Energ.* **2018**, *3*, 30.
- [21] R. Dong, T. Zhang, X. Feng, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 6189.
- [22] Y. Chen, Z. Fan, Z. Zhang, W. Niu, C. Li, N. Yang, B. Chen, H. Zhang, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 6409.
- [23] L. Zhu, X.-Q. Liu, H.-L. Jiang, L.-B. Sun, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *117*, 8129.
- [24] A. J. Clough, J. W. Yoo, M. H. Mecklenburg, S. C. Marinescu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 118.
- [25] A. Kulkarni, S. Siahrostami, A. Patel, J. K. Nørskov, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2302.
- [26] M. L. Pegis, C. F. Wise, D. J. Martin, J. M. Mayer, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 2340.
- [27] Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 4394.
- [28] Y. He, S. Hwang, D. A. Cullen, M. A. Uddin, L. Langhorst, B. Li, S. Karakalos, A. J. Kropf, E. C. Wegener, J. Sokolowski, M. Chen, D. Myers, D. Su, K. L. More, G. Wang, S. Litster, G. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 250.
- [29] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 546.
- [30] H. Wang, R. Liu, Y. Li, X. Lü, Q. Wang, S. Zhao, K. Yuan, Z. Cui, X. Li, S. Xin, R. Zhang, M. Lei, Z. Lin, *Joule* **2018**, *2*, 337.
- [31] Y. Liu, C. Xiao, P. Huang, M. Cheng, Y. Xie, *Chem* **2018**, *4*, 1263.
- [33] H. Nagatomi, N. Yanai, e. Yamada, K. Shiraishi, N. Kimizuka, *Chem. Eur. .J.* **2018**, *24*, 1803.
- [33] D. Sheberla, L. Sun, M. A. Blood-Forsythe, S. Er, C. R. Wade, C. K. Brozek, A. Aspuru-Guzik, M. Dincă, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 8859.
- [34] M. G. Campbell, D. Sheberla, S. F. Liu, T. M. Swager, M. Dinca, *Angew.Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 4349.
- [35] H. van der Heide, R. Hemmel, C. F. van Bruggen, C. Haas, *J. Solid State Chem.* **1980**, *33*, 17.
- [36] T. T. H. Hoang, S. Verma, S. Ma, T. T. Fister, J. Timoshenko, A. I. Frenkel, P. J. A. Kenis, A. A. Gewirth, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140* 5791.
- [37] Q. Lu, J. Hu, K. Tang, B. Deng, Y. Qian, G. Zhou, X. Liu, *Mater. Chem. Phys.* **2001**, *69*, 278.
- [38] Y. Liu, H. Cheng, M. Lyu, S. Fan, Q. Liu, W. Zhang, Y. Zhi, C. Wang, C. Xiao, S. Wei, B. Ye, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 15670.
- [39] W.-S. Yoon, K.-B. Kim, M.-G. Kim, M.-K. Lee, H.-J. Shin, J.-M. Lee, J.-S. Lee, C.-H. Yo, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2002**, *106*, 2526.
- [40] A. M. Saib, A. Borgna, J. van de Loosdrecht, P. J. van Berge, J. W. Niemantsverdriet, *Appl. Catal., A* **2006**, *312*, 12.
- [41] T.-y. Chen, J. Su, Z. Zhang, C. Cao, X. Wang, R. Si, X. Liu, B. Shi, J. Xu, Y.-F. Han, *ACS Catalysis* **2018**, *8*, 8606.
- [42] J. B. Gerken, J. G. McAlpin, J. Y. Chen, M. L. Rigsby, W. H. Casey, R. D. Britt, S. S. Stahl, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 14431.
- [43] F. Li, G.-F. Han, H.-J. Noh, S.-J. Kim, Y. Lu, H. Y. Jeong, Z. Fu, J.-B. Baek, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2263.
- [44] H. Wu, H. Li, X. Zhao, Q. Liu, J. Wang, J. Xiao, S. Xie, R. Si, F. Yang, S. Miao, X. Guo, G. Wang, X. Bao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 3736.
- [45] Q. Lai, J. Zhu, Y. Zhao, Y. Liang, J. He, J. Chen, *Small 2017*, *13*, 1700740.
- [46] Y. Li, W. Zhou, H. Wang, L. Xie, Y. Liang, F. Wei, J.-C. Idrobo, S. J. Pennycook, H. Dai, *Nat. Nanotech.* **2012**, *7*, 394.
- [47] K. Gong, F. Du, Z. Xia, M. Durstock, L. Dai, *Science* **2009**, *323*, 760.
- [48] T. Ling, D. Y. Yan, Y. Jiao, H. Wang, Y. Zheng, X. Zheng, J. Mao, X. W. Du, Z. Hu, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12876.
- [49] B. S. Yeo, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 5587.
- [50] C.-W. Tang, C.-B. Wang, S.-H. Chien, *Thermochim. Acta* **2008**, *473*, 68.
- [51] V. G. Hadjiev, M. N. Iliev, I. V. Vergilov, *J. Phys. C: Solid State Phys.*  **1988**, *21*, L199.
- [52] J. Yang, H. Liu, W. N. Martens, R. L. Frost, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2010**, *114*, 111.

## **Entry for the Table of Contents** (Please choose one layout)

#### Layout 1:

## COMMUNICATION

A copper-phthalocyanine-based 2D conjugated MOF with square planar cobalt-bis(dihydroxy) complexes (Co-O4) as linkages is developed as electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction reaction with high catalytic activity (E1/2= 0.83 V vs. RHE). Linkage Co centers with optimised electronic structure (eg=1) are identified as active sites.

*H. Zhong, H. K. Ly, M. Wang, Y. Krupskaya, X. Han, J. Zhang, J. Zhang, V. Kataev,B. Büchner, I. M. Weidinger, S. Kaskel, P. Liu, M. Chen, R. Dong\* and X. Feng\**

#### *Page No. – Page No.*

**Phthalocyanine-based Layered Two-Dimensional Conjugated Metal-Organic Framework as Highly Efficient Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction Reaction**