---
source: Altaf 等 - 2024 - Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity of Amorphized LaCoO3 for Oxygen Evolution Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 11.453s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:04:52.398810Z
---

<www.chemasianj.org>

# **Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity of Amorphized LaCoO3 for Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Amna Altaf,[a] Manzar Sohail,\*[a] Muhammad Altaf,[b] Ayman Nafady,[c] Muhammad Sher,[d] and Md A. [Wahab\\*](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5334-1103)[e]

Amorphous inorganic perovskites have attracted significant attention as efficient electrocatalysts due to their unique structural flexibility and good catalytic activity. In particular, the disordered structure and a surface rich in defects such as oxygen vacancies can contribute to the superior electrocatalytic activity of amorphous oxides compared to their crystalline counterpart. In this work, we report the synthesis of LaCoO3, followed by an amorphization process through urea reduction with tailored modifications. The as-synthesized catalysts were thoroughly tested for their performance in oxygen evolution reaction (OER), Remarkably, the amorphous LaCoO3 synthesized at 450 °C (referred to as LCO-4) exhibits excellent OER catalytic activity. At an overpotential of 310 mV, it achieved a current density of 10 mA/cm <sup>2</sup> , exceedingly fast to 1 A/cm <sup>2</sup> at an overpotential of only 460 mV. Moreover, LCO-4 exhibited several advantageous features compared to pristine LaCoO3 and LaCoO3 amorphized at other two temperatures (350 °C, LCO-3, and 550°C, LCO-5). The amorphized LCO-4 catalyst showed a higher electrochemically active surface area, a key factor in boosting catalytic performance. Additionally, LCO-4 demonstrated the lowest Tafel slope of 70 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , further highlighting its exceptional OER activity. Furthermore, the longterm stability of LCO-4 is notably superior than pristine LaCoO3 (LCO-P) and the other amorphized samples (LCO-3 and LCO-5). The enhanced catalytic activity of LCO-4 can be attributed to its unique disordered structure, small crystallite size, and higher concentration of oxygen vacancies in the final catalyst.

# **Introduction**

The depletion of fossil fuels coupled with the increasing energy demand has created an urgent requirement for the development of sustainable, clean, and cost-effective electrochemical energy storage systems that not only align with environmental well-being but also contribute positively to society's advancement.[1,2,3] In this context, water splitting, an emerging

- [a] *A. Altaf, M. Sohail Department of Chemistry, School of Natural Sciences, National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, 44000, Pakistan E-mail: manzar.sohail@sns.nust.edu.pk*
- [b] *M. Altaf Department of Chemistry, Government College University Lahore 54000, Pakistan*
- [c] *A. Nafady Chemistry Department, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia*
- [d] *M. Sher Department of Chemistry, Allama Iqbal Open University, H-8, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan*
- [e] *M. A. Wahab Energy and Process Engineering Laboratory, School of Mechanical, Medical and Process Engineering, Faculty of Science, Queensland University of Technology (QUT), 2 George Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia E-mail: abdul.wahab@qut.edu.au mawahab@gmail.com*
- *Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/asia.202300870>*
- *© 2023 The Authors. Chemistry - An Asian Journal published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.*

approach for converting electrical energy into chemical energy, involves two key reactions: the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction (HER) and the Oxygen Evolution Reaction (OER), occurring at the cathode and anode, respectively.[1,4] Among these two reactions, OER involves the 4e formation of O2, is the ratelimitation reaction, directly impacting the overall efficiency of the water-splitting process.[5] Presently, widely used electrocatalysts for OER and HER are noble metals, such as IrO2, RuO2, and Pt, for their excellent catalytic activity. However, the high cost and limited availability of these precious metal catalysts render them unsuitable for large-scale applications. Thus, the quest for efficient, non-noble metal catalysts with reduced overpotential for both OER and HER has become a critical research focus.[6]

To address these challenges, researchers are diligently exploring catalysts exhibiting exceptional water-splitting activity while economically viable and environmentally sustainable. Developing non-noble metal catalysts represents a significant step towards realizing efficient and scalable water-splitting technologies, contributing to a cleaner and more sustainable energy landscape. In this pursuit, transition metal-based catalysts have received significant attraction as an alternative to precious noble metal catalysts for the water-splitting process. Particularly, 3d series of transition metals (Ni, Co, Fe) based phosphides,[7] oxides,[8] selenides,[9] oxyhydrates,[10] nitrides,[11] heterostructures,[12] sulfides,[13] and perovskites[14] have been investigated owing to their tunable electronic structure, lower cost, and variable elemental composition. Among these, perovskite oxides, with the general formula of ABO3, stand out among various materials as they offer versatile options for A and B sites occupancies, accommodating alkaline earth, tran-

sition, or lanthanide metals to suit diverse applications. Notably, perovskite oxides present a compelling alternative to precious metal catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), owing to their cost-effectiveness, abundant availability,[15] prolonged stability, compositional flexibility, and higher intrinsic catalytic activity,.[14b] These oxides' magnetic and electronic properties are closely linked to the oxidation state of the central metal atom and the size of crystalline structures,[16] The important OER active site in perovskite oxides is BO6, octahedron, where the Bsite cation and oxygen anion play vital roles. The octahedral coordination of the B-site cation with six oxygen ligands causes the degeneracy of the cation d orbitals to split into sigma and, e.g., as well as π and t2g orbitals. Notably, if the B-site cation is positioned on the surface plane,[17] it disrupts the symmetry of BO6, resulting in energy level discretization. This tunable structure renders perovskites intriguing for catalysis investigations.[18] OER mechanism involves two primary processes: lattice oxygen oxidation (LOM) and adsorbate evolution (AEM). Perovskite oxides exhibit better OER activity due to the involvement of lattice oxygen sites during LOM and metal cations during AEM.[19] AEM involves four electron-proton transfer reactions on the metal ion, as explained by the equations below (1–4). In this mechanism, a proton is injected into the electrolyte, and subsequently combines with an electron at the cathode. The complete mechanism involves the adsorption of OH on the surface of O vacancy site (equation 1). The adsorbed OH\* forms O\* by deprotonation (equation 2). The O\* reacts with other OH and forms HOO\* an intermediate (equation 3). In the last step, O2 is produced by deprotonating HOO\*, regenerating active sites (equation 4).[4c]

$$OH^{-} + * \rightarrow HO^{*} + e^{-}$$
 (1)

$$HO^* \to O^* + e^- + H^+$$
 (2)

$$O^* + OH^- \rightarrow HOO^* + e^-$$
 (3)

$$HOO^* \rightarrow^* + O_{2(g)} + e^- + H^+$$
 (4)

In acidic OER, first two steps in LOM and AEM are same, as in both mechanisms O\* is formed. These O\* combines with lattice oxygen ions and forms O2 and simultaneously creates vacancies in crystal structure of catalyst. The water molecules fills these vacancies by forming \*OH species. In the last step of LOM, protons is removed by one electron oxidation step. While in basic OER the intermediate M O\* combine with OH and lattice oxygen to produce M-OOH\* and subsequently formed O2 in the final step.[20] It has also been reported that perovskite oxides exhibit remarkable efficiency in OER, attributed to several key factors. For example, the metal-oxygen solid covalency, the occupancy of electrons in the *e*<sup>g</sup> orbitals of ABO3 structure, the presence of oxygen vacancies, and the proximity of the O 2p band to the Fermi level collectively play pivotal roles in driving the exceptional OER performance of these materials.[21]

Controlling vacancies in perovskite structures emerges as a critical parameter to enhance their properties for various applications, including electro/photocatalysis and supercapacitors. Previously, Pei *et.al.*[22] and Wang *et.al.*[23] have demonstrated that surface oxygen vacancies in metal oxides can improve catalytic activity. Similarly, in perovskite oxides, oxygen vacancies play a crucial role by acting as shallow donors, leading to an increased carrier concentration and higher electrical conductivity. Importantly, these oxygen vacancies serve as active sites for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and by fine-tuning the surface-oxygen interaction, the energy barrier can be effectively reduced, resulting in enhanced OER activity.[23] Different types of thin films of oxide perovskite have been reported, such as Ba0.9Co0.7Fe0.2Nb0.1O3 <sup>δ</sup>, [22] LaNiO3, [23] and BaIrO3 [24] but amorphous LaCoO3 catalyst with defect-rich in oxygen vacancies for electrocatalytic activity of OER remains to be more explored.[15]

In this work, we employ a facile hydrothermal method to synthesize reduced LaCoO3, aiming to improve its electrocatalytic performance for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). The obtained results demonstrate that the urea reduction process effectively transforms crystalline LaCoO3 into an amorphous LaCoO3 structure. This process allows the formation of the disorder in the atomic arrangement that results in reduced crystallite size and increased oxygen vacancies, rendering the material highly proficient in catalyzing the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at lower overpotentials compared to the conventional pristine LaCoO3 catalyst. This study provides valuable insights into the superior electrocatalytic performance of amorphous LaCoO3 structures over crystalline LaCoO3 ones for OER catalysis. The combination of smaller crystallite size and abundant oxygen vacancies in the amorphous LaCoO3 catalyst plays significantly role in enhancing electrocatalytic activity, shedding light on the advantageous properties of disordered structures in electrocatalytic applications.

# **Experimental**

#### **Materials**

Cobalt chloride hexahydrate (CoCl2.6H2O), lanthanum chloride dihydrate (LaCl3.H2O), citric acid (C6H8O7), ammonia (NH3), and urea (CH4N2O) were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and used without purification. Deionized water used to prepare all these solutions was obtained from a Milli-Q (EQ-7000) direct water purification system (Merck KGaA, Darmstadt 64297, Germany).

#### **Synthesis of LaCoO3 Nanoparticles**

For preparing amorphous LaCoO3 with oxygen vacancies, lanthanum chloride dihydrate, cobalt chloride hexahydrate, and citric acid were combined with a molar ratio of 1:1:4, respectively, and then mixed with 50 mL of deionized (DI) water. The pH of the solution was adjusted to 8.0 by adding ammonia solution, followed by stirring the mixture for 2 hours. The resulting solution was then subjected to evaporation at 70°C to remove excess water, and the obtained material was further dried in a vacuum oven at 60°C for 6 hours. Subsequently, the obtained powder, referred to as LCO-P, was subjected to calcination at 550°C for 2 hours and cooled to room temperature, yielding pristine lanthanum cobaltite powder. LCO-P powder was uniformly mixed with urea at a mass ratio of

1:10. The mixture was then heated in a tube furnace at different temperatures: 350°C (LCO-3), 450 °C (LCO-4), and 550°C (LCO-5), with a heating rate of 5°C per minute under a nitrogen (N2) environment. Following the heat treatment, all the samples were allowed to naturally cool down to room temperature, successfully synthesizing reduced lanthanum cobaltite powders with varying degrees of amorphization and structural modifications. This protocol is significantly modify the process to create defect-rich oxygen vacancies in the final catalyst.[15]

### **Characterizations and Electrochemical Studies**

Powder X-ray diffraction patterns (p-XRD) of as-synthesized samples were recorded by using Bourevestnik Dron-8 diffractometer (St. Petersburg 190900, Russia) having Cu Kα radiation (λ=1.54 A°) and, operated at 40 mA current and 40 kV voltage. For elemental and morphological analysis, energy dispersive X-ray, elemental mapping, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were carried out with (HITACHI S-4700, Tokyo 105-6409, Japan), which is combined with Energy Dispersive X-ray (EDX) detector. For studying interplanar spacing and morphology JEOL 2100 F (Jeol U.S.A. Ins Peabody, MA 01960, USA), and high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) have been used. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was employed which was on the homebuilt system equipped with Microtech CLAM 2 hemispherical analyzer using a monochromatic Al Kα source (1486.66 eV), operating at 34 mA,10 kV, and 30°source. The little powder sample was dispersed on carbon tape, which is adhered to the stainless-steel sample holder. A survey scan was collected by using 0.2 eV step size and 1 second per step. Narrow scans were collected by using 20 eV pass energy and 10 s per step. For electrochemical studies, Gamry interface 1000 electrochemical workstation (Warminster, PA 18974, United States) was employed for obtaining various electrochemical data including Chronopotentiometry (CP), cyclic voltammetry (CV), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV). A three-electrode system was used, where Pt wire and Ag/AgCl/sat'd KCl act as counter and reference electrodes, respectively. 1 M KOH aqueous solution was used as an electrolyte. All the prepared electrodes were activated by performing cyclic voltammetry (CV) in the 0–1 V range versus (vs) Ag/AgCl/sat'd KCl at different scan rates. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was carried out in the 0 to 0.8 V range vs. Ag/ AgCl/sat'd KCl at variable scan rates. The potential measured versus Ag/AgCl (EAg/AgCl) was converted into hydrogen electrode potential (ERHE) by using the Nernst equation:[25]

$$\mathrm{E_{RHE}} = 0.197~\mathrm{V} + 0.059 \times \mathrm{pH} + \mathrm{E_{Ag/AgCI}}$$

Potentiostatic electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was also used to investigate the charge transfer resistance of the catalyst. The stability of the material was measured by chronopotentiometry at a current density of 100 mA for 10 hours. The Tafel plots and electrochemically active surface area were calculated from LSV and CV curves. The nickel foam (NiF) substrate was activated for the working electrode by sonicating it in 1 M HCl and washing it in acetone, ethanol, and DI water for 15 minutes, respectively. 20 μL Nafion was added in 5 mg of each catalyst, and each catalyst was ultrasonically dispersed in 1 mL ethanol. Drop casting deposited Prepared ink on Ni foam which was used as working electrodes.

# **Results and Discussion**

X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis of LCO-P confirms that the calcination at 550°C for 2 hours successfully transformed the precursors into LaCoO3 perovskite phase (according to JCPDS card 00-025-1060),[26] as shown in Figure 1. However, by introducing urea and subsequently calcining the material at different temperatures, we observed a crystal phase transition in LaCoO3, preferentially forming an amorphous phase. The results obtained from p-XRD indicate that LCO-P initially exhibited a crystalline phase. After the reduction process, the intensity of diffraction peaks progressively decreased in the reduced LaCoO3 samples. This significant decrease in peak intensity indicates the successful transformation of the crystalline phase into an amorphous phase during the reduction process. Figure 1 demonstrates the impact of annealing temperature on amorphization. It is evident that as the temperature increases from 350 °C to 550°C, no peak shift is observed but the peaks gradually become broader, indicating the progressive amorphization of the material with higher annealing temperatures. The XRD diffraction peaks at 24.7°, 29.3°, 30.0°, 37.1°, 40.1°, 50.0°, 51.8° and 52.3°, correspond to the *d*-spacing of 0.35, 0.30, 0.31, 0.23, 0.22, 0.21, 0.17, 0.17 and 0.17 nm and lattice planes (012), (110), (104), (200), (202), (006), (024), (112), (116) and (018), respectively.[27] The crystallite size was calculated by Scherrer Formula for LCO-P, which is found to be about 43.6 nm. It is evident that as the crystalline phase transforms into an amorphous phase through urea reduction, the broadening of peaks increases, and the crystallite size decreases. Subsequently, as the calcination temperature is raised to 550 °C, the p-XRD peaks display an increase in intensity and sharpness, increasing crystallite size.[28] This increase in crystallite size is associated with a decrease in catalyst activity.[28–29] The observed changes in crystallite size and amorphization significantly influence the material's catalytic performance as evidenced in OER performance.

The particle morphologies of the as-synthesized catalysts were obtained using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The SEM images of LCO-P and LCO-4 are shown in Figure 2a and Figure 2b, respectively, showing that both catalysts exhibit irregular and flower-like morphology. However, SEM results cannot conclusively suggest the process of amorphization. SEM images for LCO-3 and LCO-5, are shown in Figure S1 (supporting information). X-ray energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and elemental mapping further validate the uniform distribution of La, Co, and O elements even after the urea reduction, indicating a consistent 1 :1 ratio of La and Co in the samples (Figure S2, S3). This disordered structure exhibits numerous active sites, thus promoting the acceleration of the electrocatalytic water-splitting reaction as discussed in the OER performance. The disorderness and amorphization is further confirmed by p-XRD, as (110) and (104) planes in XRD of pristine sample (LCO-P) are reduced in LCO-3, LCO-4 and LCO-5 and other peaks are also disappeared which proves that during urea reduction treatment phase change is occurred from crystalline to amorphous.[30] This disordered structure exhibits numerous active sites, thus promoting the acceleration of the electro-

**Figure 1.** p-XRD patterns of LCO-P, LCO-3, LCO-4, and LCO-5.

catalytic water-splitting reaction as discussed in the OER performance. The amorphization process also leads to smaller crystallite sizes and increased oxygen vacancies, both known to enhance electrocatalytic activity.[31] Overall, the unique morphology and structural characteristics of the amorphous LaCoO3 catalysts, effectively facilitated by the urea reduction process, and the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images of LCO-P and LCO-4 provide conclusive evidence regarding their structural nature. Among the samples, LCO-P exhibits a crystalline structure, clearly displaying welldefined lattice fringes as shown in Figure 2c, whereas reduced LCO-4 sample appeared to be amorphous in nature, as evident from the lack of discernible lattice fringes and distorted lattice structure in Figure 2d. These results unambiguously confirm the successful amorphization achieved through the urea treatment.

The comparison of selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns further supports the amorphous nature of LCO-4 in Figure 3c, as the diffraction spots appear considerably weaker compared to those of LCO-P in Figure 3a. The bright spots in the SAED pattern of LCO-P correspond to well-defined lattice planes, specifically the (110), (006), and (116) lattice planes, which exhibit d-spacing values of 0.30 nm, 0.22 nm, and 0.17 nm, respectively. These values closely align with the dspacing values obtained from the p-XRD analysis. Conversely, the concentric circles observed in the SAED pattern of LCO-4 also represent the same lattice planes. However, the bright spots are noticeably weaker, confirming the transformation from a crystalline phase to an amorphous in the reduced sample. The HRTEM and SAED analyses confirm the successful amorphization achieved through the urea treatment, revealing the structural differences between LCO-P and LCO-4. The observed changes in lattice fringes and diffraction patterns precisely correlate with the findings from the p-XRD analysis, solidifying the evidence of amorphization and crystallization, respectively.

Figure 4 (a) provides a detailed view of the defects and lattice fringes presented in LCO-P. The indexing of these crystal lattice fringes reveal the interplanar spacing of 0.30 and 0.31 nm as depicted in Figure 4 (b,c,d,e), which are assigned to the (110) and (104) planes of LaCoO3, respectively.[30] These

**Figure 2.** SEM images of (a) LCO-P and (b) LCO-4 and TEM images of (c) LCO-P and (d) LCO-4.

interplanar spacing values closely match with the d-spacing of the intense peaks observed in the p-XRD analysis of LCO-P. Therefore, the HRTEM analysis confirms the successful formation of LCO-P with the desired crystalline structure.

In the case of LCO-4, TEM images display weaker lattice fringes. Nevertheless, the indexing of these fringes can identify the interplanar spacing of 0.30 nm and 0.31 nm, as shown in Figure S4. These values correspond to the (110) and (104) planes of LaCoO3 and are in close agreement with the d-spacing values obtained from the intense peaks observed in the p-XRD analysis of LCO-4. The results from HRTEM analysis further corroborate the findings from p-XRD, confirming the successful amorphization and subsequent crystallization processes in LCO-P and LCO-4, respectively. The apparent correspondence between the interplanar spacing values obtained from HRTEM and the d-spacing values from p-XRD reinforces the accuracy of the structural analyses. It strengthens our understanding of the distinct properties of the amorphous and crystalline LaCoO3 catalysts.

XPS data showed the electronic structure and chemical states of pristine and reduced LaCoO3. In the survey scans of both samples, distinct peaks corresponding to La, O, and Co were observed. However, the reduced sample, LCO-4, exhibited an additional peak corresponding to N, indicating that nitrogen was also doped during the urea reduction process in Figure 4(a). The higher intensity of all elements observed in LCO-4 compared to LCO-P is attributed to the increase in surface atoms resulting from the reduction process. The deconvoluted peaks of La shown in Figure 5(b) exhibited the typical La 3d doublet satellite structures for La (III). LCO-P exhibited two peaks for La 3d5/2 at 834.3 and 837.8 eV. Similarly, La 3d3/2 exhibited a doublet with peaks at 851.2 and 854.8 eV. The reduced sample (LCO-4) indicated a positive chemical shift by 0.4-1 eV binding energy in La 3d due to higher oxygen vacancies on its surface. LCO-4 also exhibits increased intensity of surface states as compared to LCO-P which is due to its structural transformation.[15] The oxygen deficiency increases the effective nuclear charge, which causes the positive shift.[32] The spin-orbit coupling difference between the binding energies of La 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 is about 16.6 eV, indicating that La is present in +3 form in the LaCoO3 perovskite.[28–29] The splitting of peaks corresponds to La 3d shake-up state due to electrons transfer from the valence band of O 2p to La 4f unoccupied orbital.[29] The Co 2p spectrum of LCO-P and LCO-4 displayed two sharp peaks centered at 780.2 eV, 780.7 eV for 2p3/2 and 795.7 eV and 796.1 eV for 2p1 *<sup>=</sup>*<sup>2</sup> , respectively, as shown in Figure 5(c). A spin orbit couple of approximately 15.5 eV confirms that Co exists in its +3 oxidation state, consistent with previous reports.[33] The XPS of LCO-4 shows a positive shift in binding energies as well as increased intensities as compared to

**Figure 3.** HRTEM images and SAED pattern of (a,c) LCO-P (b,d) LCO-4.

LCO-P which indicates more oxygen vacancies in reduced sample.[34]

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra analysis for oxygen in LaCoO3 revealed the presence of two distinct oxygen species within the sample. Deconvoluted peaks appear at 533.7 and 531.7 eV for LCO-P, while for LCO-4, the positive shift of 0.5 eV in all of the fitted peaks was observed. The peaks at a binding energy of 528–531 eV correspond to lattice oxygen ion (OI ), and the peaks at 531–533 eV correspond to adsorption peaks (OII), as in previous report.[35] The (OII) peak in Figure 5(d) is broad. It has a higher intensity in LCO-4 than in LCO-P, reflecting more oxygen vacancies in the reduced sample than in the pristine sample after amorphization. Naeem et al reported that (OII) is developed by increasing oxygen vacancies.[36] Peak area ratio of LCO-4 also illustrates that it exhibits more oxygen vacancies than pristine sample. More vacancies lead to more trapped electrons, exchanging lattice and surface-adsorbed oxygen and enhancing activity.[37,38,39] N 1s peak has been observed at 399.2 eV as shown in Figure S5, which is attributed to Cobalt coordinated N. This Co coordinated N XPS spectra illustrated that there is a chemical interaction between Co and N and Co N can act as active sites in OER. Thus helps in enhancing electrocatalytic activity.[40]

The influence of amorphization on the OER activity of LaCoO3 was investigated using in a conventional threeelectrode cell in 1 M aqueous KOH. To investigate the electrocatalytic activity LSV was done at scan rate of 10 mV/s, as shown in Figure 6, LCO-4 exhibits the best electrocatalytic activity than that of samples LCO-P, LCO-3, and LCO-5. These results indicated that LCO-5 was annealed at a higher temperature (550 °C), leading to agglomeration with rich effects, whereas LCO-3 was annealed at a lower temperature (350 °C), so it had lower defects than LCO-4. In contrast, LCO-4 exhibits a current density of 1000 mA/cm <sup>2</sup> at an overpotential of 460 mV as shown in Figure 6(a), which is much better compared to the current density of LCO-P, LCO-3, and LCO-5. The onset potential for OER with LCO-4 is 1.53 V, which is lower than the onset potential of LCO-P (1.65 V) and LCO-3, LCO-5 (1.61 V). Therefore, the incorporation of urea and a decomposition temperature of 450°C significantly contribute to the amorphization of LaCoO3, resulting in increased defects and enhanced catalytic activity. The overpotential was calculated from LSV data by using following equation:[25]

$$\eta = E_{RHE} {-} 1.23$$

The inset of Figure 6 (b) demonstrates that LCO-4 exhibits the lowest overpotential of 310 mV and 350 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively, better than other reported catalysts.[37,41] As shown in Figure 6

**Figure 4.** a) HRTEM image of LCO-P (b-c) Inverse FFT image (d–e) Profile graph of inverse FFT image b and c.

(b), LCO-4 exhibits overpotential of 370 mV to achieve a current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . The superior activity of LCO-4 can be attributed to its altered electronic and amorphous structures due to reduced LaCoO3. These structural changes introduce defects, such as oxygen vacancies, and render the catalyst more porous, further enhancing its catalytic performance. In comparison, at a current density of 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , LCO-P, LCO-3, and LCO-5 exhibit higher overpotentials of 530 mV, 490 mV, and 490 mV, respectively, indicating their inferior electrocatalytic performance compared to LCO-4. The prevalence of a long-range disordered structure in LCO-4 evidences beneficial for oxygen evolution reactions (OER) due to its unsaturated electronic configuration, undefined bond lengths, abundant active sites, and oxygen vacancies.[17]

Furthermore, we investigate the Tafel slope to assess the kinetics of different samples. The formula for calculating Tafel slope is:

$$\eta = a \times \log j + b$$

here,

η is overpotential, *a* is Tafel slope, *j* represents the current density and b is intercept. Lower the value of *a*, slower will be increase in overpotential and higher the activity of catalyst.[25] It should be noted that LCO-4 exhibits a significantly smaller Tafel slope of 70 mVdec <sup>1</sup> compared to LCO-P (366 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), LCO-3 (172 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), and LCO-5 (174 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) as shown in Figure 6(d). These results suggest that the amorphization process at 450°C enhances the reaction kinetics, resulting in faster and more efficient electrocatalytic activity than that of the pristine and other samples.[17] To quantify the catalytic activity of the assynthesized material, we calculated its ECSA, which was determined by measuring the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) in non-faradaic potential regions using cyclic voltammetry at different scan rates (10 mVsec <sup>1</sup> to 100 mVsec <sup>1</sup> ). The Cdl was obtained from the slope of a plot of the scan rate against current density. From value of Cdl ECSA can be calculated by using following formula:[25]

$$\mathsf{ECSA} = \mathsf{C}_{\mathsf{dI}}/\mathsf{C}_{\mathsf{s}}$$

Here,

Cdl is the double-layer capacitance and Cs represents the specific capacitance for the electrode.

As depicted in Figure S6 (a, b), LCO-4 exhibited a significantly increased Cdl value of 0.314 mFcm <sup>2</sup> compared to LCO-P (0.102 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), LCO-3 (0.213 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), and LCO-5 (0.161 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), indicating that LCO-4 possesses a larger ECSA,

**Figure 5.** XPS spectra of LCO-P and LCO-4 (a) Survey (b) La 3d (c) Co 2p (d) O 1s.

which also implies that LCO-4 consisted of a higher concentration of catalytically active sites and a defect-rich surface that can contribute to the enhanced electrocatalytic performance of LCO-4 in OER. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was also conducted to assess the kinetics and resistance of the electrocatalytic reaction at the interface between the electrolyte and the electrode.[42] The Nyquist plots were fitted using circuit CPE (Constant Phase Element) with diffusion, allowing us to calculate the charge transfer resistance (Rct). As shown in Figure S6 that the Rct value for LCO-4 (3.33 Ω) is significantly lower, in contrast to the higher resistances observed for LCO-P (16.87 Ω), LCO-3 (31.02 Ω), and LCO-5 (16.87 Ω) catalysts. These results indicate that the amorphization process effectively facilitates the rapid transport of electrons between the electrolyte and the electrode interface.

In addition to demonstrating robust electrochemical and catalytic activity, the stability of the catalyst is also a critical parameter in water-splitting applications. As discussed earlier, LCO-4 exhibits the best catalytic activity, prompting us to investigate its stability using chronopotentiometry (CP) at a current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Figure S6 (d) shows minimal attenuation in potential even after continuous operation of 10 hours, indicating the long-term stability of the as-synthesized electrocatalyst. Stability of control samples was also been investigated under same conditions and it is shown in Figure S7 that all of catalyst are very unstable. At 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> the potential of LCO-P, LCO-3 and LCO-5 keep on fluctuating which confirms that these catalysts are not stable. According to literature, the predicted dominant OER mechanism is AEM. As explained in literature the perovskite oxides changes into metal oxyhydroxides under alkaline environment and actual OER takes place in these transition metal oxyhydroxides and it follows the AEM mechanism due to lack of non-bonding states of oxygen The exact mechanism followed by this catalyst can be further studied by DFT calculations.[43,44]

Thus, amorphization of the LCO-4 at 450°C makes the catalyst stable and results in exposure of larger surface area and a higher number of active sites, thus facilitating the catalysts' electrochemical activity and long-term durability. The introduction of a heteroatom modulates the electronic structure and coordination environment of active metal sites, leading to transformation in the adsorption behavior of OER intermediates, thus improving the catalytic activity.[45] The enhanced electrocatalytic activity of LCO-4 is due to synergistic effect between

**Figure 6.** Electrochemical studies of LCO-P and LCO-4 (a) LSV curves (b) Overpotential of LCO-4 (c) Overpotential bar graph (d) Tafel plot.

the N introduction and the amorphous structure. The lone pair of electrons on nitrogen atom cooperates with empty d-orbitals of CoO3. Therefore, the formation of a stable LaCoO3 will be the result. Moreover, nitrogen also enhances the Co N bond energy, consequently influencing the charge transfer efficiency which then enhances conductivity. Besides this, nitrogen also contributes to increase in structural defects and exposes more active edge sites.[46] One of the more critical features is that amorphization maintains electronic structure and morphology, which not only deters the structure reconstruction but also increases the electrochemical activity of the catalyst.

In this study, we have effectively used urea reduction process to transforms the initial crystalline LaCoO3, which was annealed at 450°C, into an amorphous state. The resulting amorphous catalyst demonstrates remarkable electrocatalytic performance, highlighted by a substantial anodic current reaching 1000 mA/cm <sup>2</sup> with a low overpotential of 460 mV and, and Tafel slope of 70 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , indicating it as a highly promising electrocatalyst, even more due to its unique disordered structure. Remarkably, the achieved current density outperforms analogous catalysts, including noble metals, as shown in Table S1. This achievement carries special significance as our catalyst harnesses abundant and cost-effective materials. Furthermore, the as-synthesized catalyst exhibited remarkable stability, retaining nearly full catalytic activity even after 10 hours of continuous operation. Such long-term stability is a highly desirable characteristic for its practical applications in renewable energy systems. Our morphological analysis, employing SEM and HRTEM, has provided valuable insights into the catalyst's outstanding performance. The observed material defects are attributed to its disordered state, which likely plays a key role in enhancing its electrochemical activity and stability during OER. These defects in perovskite oxides play a crucial role by reducing the energy barrier for oxygen migration and increasing the density of oxygen vacancies on the catalyst's surface. Consequently, this enhances OER performance by creating a higher density of active sites on the catalysts' surface.[47] Overall, the successful conversion of the crystalline perovskite into an amorphous state has led to a promising electrocatalyst with exceptional activity and stability for OER.

Meanwhile, it has been demonstrated that amorphous oxides exhibit superior electrocatalytic activity compared to

their crystalline counterparts. This advantages stems from the array of benefits that amorphization offers, such as an increased density of active sites, enhanced mass transfer, and more favorable dynamics behavior.[48] In addition, the incorporation of nitrogen through the urea reduction introduces alterations in the catalyst's surface chemistry, exerting potential influence over its electrocatalytic properties. The integration of nitrogen dopants can modulate the electronic structure and catalytic activity of LaCoO3, making LCO-4 a promising candidate for enhanced OER performance. Furthermore, the process of amorphization induces the formation of disordered structures featuring edge-shared octahedra, which facilitates the effective binding of OH species to both bridging and terminal geometries, resulting in a remarkable increase in the concentration of active sites. In contrast, crystalline materials face the challenge of accommodating OH with bridging geometry due to the longer distance to neighboring metals active sites. Amorphous materials effectively overcome this limitation, increasing OER activity.[49]

# **Conclusions**

We have successfully developed a facile and practical synthesis method, yielding stable and efficient LaCoO3-reduced nanostructures as electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Among the synthesized catalysts, crystalline LaCoO3 reduced at 450°C (LCO-4) through the urea reduction process exhibited the highest OER activity. LCO-4 demonstrated exceptional performance, achieving the highest current density of 1 A/cm <sup>2</sup> at an overpotential of 460 mV, a smaller Tafel slope of 70 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , and a higher electrochemical surface area. The outstanding OER activity of LCO-4 can be attributed to its enhanced electrical conductivity, abundant oxygen vacancies, active catalytic sites, and unique amorphous structure. The electronic properties and disordered structure of perovskite amorphous oxides have proven advantageous, making them promising materials for OER applications with enhanced stability and activity compared to conventional catalysts reported in the literature. This study opens up new avenues for using amorphous materials in renewable energy storage and conversion applications. The success in synthesizing and understanding the enhanced electrocatalytic properties of amorphous LaCoO3 paves the way for further exploration and development of amorphous structures as efficient catalysts in the quest for sustainable energy solutions. These findings contribute to improving clean energy technologies and support the potential widespread use of perovskite amorphous oxides in future electrocatalysis applications.

# *Acknowledgements*

The Higher Education Commission (HEC), Pakistan, supported this work through grant No. HEC-HEDP LCF 07 & through "Indigenous 5000 Ph.D. Fellowship Project Phase II, Batch-VI. We extend our sincere appreciation to Researchers Supporting Program (RSP-2024R79) at King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia for the partial support. The authors also thank Mart Salverda (Groningen, Netherlands) for her support during the XPS experiments. Open Access publishing facilitated by Queensland University of Technology, as part of the Wiley - Queensland University of Technology agreement via the Council of Australian University Librarians.

# *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Crystalline to Amorphous Transition **·** Oxygen Evolution Reaction **·** Renewable Energy **·** Urea Reduction **·** Water splitting

- [1] Q. Wang, R. He, F. Yang, X. Tian, H. Sui, L. Feng, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.141056) Eng. J.* **2023**, *456*, [141056](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.141056).
- [2] S. Ali, R. Ahmed, M. Sohail, S. A. Khan, M. S. Ansari, *J. Ind. Eng. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2015.03.014)* **2015**, *28*, [344–350.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jiec.2015.03.014)
- [3] H. K. Zafar, M. Sohail, A. Nafady, K. K. Ostrikov, G. Will, M. A. Wahab, A. P. O'Mullane, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *641*, [158505](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.158505).
- [4] a) W. Zeb, A. Altaf, M. Aamir, N. Baig, I. Baig, A. Nafady, M. Sharif, M. Sher, M. Sohail, *J. Saudi Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *26*, [101542;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jscs.2022.101542) b) M. Bilal, Rashid, A. Altaf, N. Baig, G. A. Chotana, R. S. Ashraf, S. Rasul, A. Nafady, A. Ul-Hamid, M. Sohail, *Fuel* **2022**, *323*, [124324;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2022.124324) c) J. Song, C. Wei, Z.-F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, [2196–2214.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00607A)
- [5] A. Altaf, M. Sohail, A. Nafady, R. G. Siddique, S. S. Shah, T. Najam, *[Molecules](https://doi.org/10.3390/molecules28020572)* **2023**, *28*, 572.
- [6] a) D. Rathore, S. Ghosh, J. Chowdhury, S. Pande, *ACS Appl. Nano [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.3c00265)* **2023**, *6*, [3095–3110;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.3c00265) b) T. Li, K. Jiang, Y. Li, H. Luo, Z. Wang, Y.-Q. Liu, *[Int.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.11.107) J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, [7337–7345](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.11.107).
- [7] Y. Lin, Y. Pan, S. Liu, K. Sun, Y. Cheng, M. Liu, Z. Wang, X. Li, J. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2019**, *259*, [118039](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118039).
- [8] J. Yu, Q. Cao, Y. Li, X. Long, S. Yang, J. K. Clark, M. Nakabayashi, N. Shibata, J.-J. Delaunay, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, [1605–1611.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b00191)
- [9] J. Park, W. Yang, J. Tan, H. Lee, J. W. Yun, S. G. Shim, Y. S. Park, J. Moon, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, [136–145.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.9b02486)
- [10] T. Kou, S. Wang, J. L. Hauser, M. Chen, S. R. J. Oliver, Y. Ye, J. Guo, Y. Li, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, [622–628.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.9b00047)
- [11] H. Jin, X. Liu, A. Vasileff, Y. Jiao, Y. Zhao, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *ACS [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b07841)* **2018**, *12*, [12761–12769](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.8b07841).
- [12] A. Hameed, F. Nasim, N. Nisar, H. Ali, A. Qurashi, D. H. Anjum, M. Sohail, M. A. Nadeem, *Energy Fuels* **2023**.
- [13] W. Zhou, X.-J. Wu, X. Cao, X. Huang, C. Tan, J. Tian, H. Liu, J. Wang, H. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, [2921–2924.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ee41572d)
- [14] a) Y. Zhu, W. Zhou, Z.-G. Chen, Y. Chen, C. Su, M. O. Tadé, Z. Shao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, [3897–3901;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408998) b) A. Banerjee, M. K. Awasthi, P. Maji, M. Pal, S. T. Aziz, G. K. Lahiri, A. Dutta, *ChemElectroChem* **2023**, *10*, e202201098.
- [15] Z. Li, Y. Xie, Z. Huang, Y. Su, C. Sun, J. Fu, H. Wei, F. Wu, G. Ou, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c02982) Nano Mater.* **2022**, *5*, [14209–14215.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c02982)
- [16] S. Malkhandi, B. Yang, A. K. Manohar, A. Manivannan, G. K. S. Prakash, S. R. Narayanan, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2012**, *3*, [967–972](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz300181a).
- [17] C. Ma, W. Sun, W. Qamar Zaman, Z. Zhou, H. Zhang, Q. Shen, L. Cao, J. Yang, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2020**, *12*, [34980–34989](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c08969).
- [18] a) W. G. Hardin, J. T. Mefford, D. A. Slanac, B. B. Patel, X. Wang, S. Dai, X. Zhao, R. S. Ruoff, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, *Chem. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm403785q)* **2014**, *26*, [3368–3376;](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm403785q) b) H. Sun, X. Xu, G. Chen, Y. Zhou, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, R. Ran, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201902138)* **2019**, *12*, 5111–5116.

- [19] K. Iwase, M. Ohtaka, I. Honma, *Chem. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, [2773–2781.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.2c03099)
- [20] Z. Lei, T. Wang, B. Zhao, W. Cai, Y. Liu, S. Jiao, Q. Li, R. Cao, M. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2000478.
- [21] U. Kim, S. Lee, D. Koo, Y. Choi, H. Kim, E. Son, J. M. Baik, Y.-K. Han, H. Park, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2023**, *8*, [1575–1583.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.3c00145)
- [22] K. Pei, Y. Zhou, K. Xu, H. Zhang, Y. Ding, B. Zhao, W. Yuan, K. Sasaki, Y. Choi, Y. Chen, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2207.
- [23] Y. Wang, C. Huang, K. Chen, Y. Zhao, J. He, S. Xi, P. Chen, X. Ding, X. Wu, Q. Kong, X. An, F. Raziq, X. Zu, Y. Du, H. Xiao, K. H. L. Zhang, L. Qiao, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c16885) Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, [58566–58575.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c16885)
- [24] C. W. Song, H. Suh, J. Bak, H. B. Bae, S.-Y. Chung, *Chem* **2019**, *5*, [3243–](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2019.10.011) [3259.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2019.10.011)
- [25] S. Ni, H. Qu, Z. Xu, X. Zhu, H. Xing, L. Wang, J. Yu, H. Liu, C. Chen, L. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *299*, [120638](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120638).
- [26] F. Patel, S. Patel, *Procedia Eng.* **2013**, *51*, [324–329](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2013.01.044).
- [27] N. Sazelee, M. F. Md Din, M. Ismail, S.-U. Rather, H. S. Bamufleh, H. Alhumade, A. A. Taimoor, U. Saeed, *[Materials](https://doi.org/10.3390/ma16062449)* **2023**, *16*, 2449.
- [28] O. Wiranwetchayan, S. Promnopas, S. Phadungdhitidhada, A. Phuruangrat, T. Thongtem, P. Singjai, S. Thongtem, *[Ceram.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2018.11.175) Int.* **2019**, *45*, 4802– [4809.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ceramint.2018.11.175)
- [29] W.-Y. Lee, H. J. Yun, J.-W. Yoon, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2014**, *583*, [320–324.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2013.08.191)
- [30] X. Yan, L. Tian, M. He, X. Chen, *Nano Lett.* **2015**, *15*, [6015–6021](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.5b02205).
- [31] M. Chen, Y. Qiu, W. Wang, X. Li, J. Wang, H. Wen, Z. Yang, P. Wang, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.126224) [Hazard.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2021.126224) Mater.* **2021**, *416*, 126224.
- [32] S.-F. Weng, Y.-H. Wang, C.-S. Lee, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2013**, *134–135*, [359–366.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2013.01.025)
- [33] K. Liu, J. Li, Q. Wang, X. Wang, D. Qian, J. Jiang, J. Li, Z. Chen, *J. [Alloys](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.07.178) Compd.* **2017**, *725*, [260–269](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.07.178).
- [34] J. Qin, L. Lin, X. Wang, *Chem. Commun.* **2018**, *54*, [2272–2275.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CC07954K)
- [35] H. Liang, Y. Hong, C. Zhu, S. Li, Y. Chen, Z. Liu, D. Ye, *Catal. [Today](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2012.04.036)* **2013**, *201*, [98–102](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2012.04.036).
- [36] M. Naeem, S. Hasanain, M. Kobayashi, Y. Ishida, A. Fujimori, S. Buzby, S. I. Shah, *[Nanotechnology](https://doi.org/10.1088/0957-4484/17/10/039)* **2006**, *17*, 2675.
- [37] H. Wang, X. Chen, D. Huang, M. Zhou, D. Ding, H. Luo, *[ChemCatChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201902392)* **2020**, *12*, [2768–2775.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201902392)

- [38] L. Fu, H. Chen, K. Wang, X. Wang, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.161925)* **2022**, *891*, 161925.
- [39] C. Rath, P. Mohanty, A. Pandey, N. Mishra, *J. Phys. D* **2009**, *42*, [205101.](https://doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/42/20/205101)
- [40] H. Liu, X. Ren, H. Bai, H. Qiao, J. Lu, X. Wang, H. Huang, J. Hu, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.140211) Acta* **2022**, *414*, 140211.
- [41] a) F. Zhou, Z. Zhao, M. Xu, T. Wang, H. Yang, R. Wang, J. Wang, H. Li, M. Feng, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2022**, *28*, e202104157; b) R. Majee, S. Chakraborty, H. G. Salunke, S. Bhattacharyya, *ACS Appl. Energ. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00531)* **2018**, *1*, 3342– [3350.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00531)
- [42] F.-T. Tsai, Y.-T. Deng, C.-W. Pao, J.-L. Chen, J.-F. Lee, K.-T. Lai, W.-F. Liaw, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [9939–9950](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA01877E).
- [43] F. Zhou, Z. Zhao, M. Xu, T. Wang, H. Yang, R. Wang, J. Wang, H. Li, M. Feng, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2022**, *28*, e202104157.
- [44] X. Wang, H. Zhong, S. Xi, W. S. V. Lee, J. Xue, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107956.
- [45] Z. Shi, W. Yang, Y. Gu, T. Liao, Z. Sun, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 2001069.
- [46] S. Wu, X. Wang, J. Bai, Y. Zhu, X. Yu, F. Qin, P. He, L. Ren, *[Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.2c01225)* **2022**, *38*, [11210–11218.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.2c01225)
- [47] H. Arandiyan, S. S. Mofarah, Y. Wang, C. Cazorla, D. Jampaiah, M. Garbrecht, K. Wilson, A. F. Lee, C. Zhao, T. Maschmeyer, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202102672) Eur. J.* **2021**, *27*, [14418–14426](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202102672).
- [48] a) J. Cao, Y. Fu, Y. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Zheng, J. Pan, C. Li, *J. Solid [State](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jssc.2023.123877) Chem.* **2023**, *321*, [123877;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jssc.2023.123877) b) H. S. Sonwalkar, S. K. Haram, *[ChemistrySe](https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201700282)lect* **2017**, *2*, [3323–3328.](https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201700282)
- [49] G. Chen, Y. Zhu, H. M. Chen, Z. Hu, S.-F. Hung, N. Ma, J. Dai, H.-J. Lin, C.- T. Chen, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900883.

Manuscript received: October 4, 2023 Revised manuscript received: November 5, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: November 9, 2023 Version of record online: November 28, 2023