---
source: An 等 - 2023 - Balancing Activity and Stability in Spinel Cobalt Oxides through Geometrical Sites Occupation toward.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 74.222s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:06:06.624994Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

*Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution Hot Paper*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023,** *62,* e202214600 Internationale Ausgabe: [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202214600](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202214600) Deutsche Ausgabe: [doi.org/10.1002/ange.202214600](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202214600)

# **Balancing Activity and Stability in Spinel Cobalt Oxides through Geometrical Sites Occupation towards Efficient Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution**

*Li [An](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3879-5307)<sup>+</sup> ,\* Hong Zhang+ , Jiamin Zhu, Shibo Xi, Bolong Huang,\* Mingzi Sun, Yong Peng, Pinxian Xi,\* and Chun-Hua Yan*

**Abstract:** Designing active and stable oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysts are vitally important to various energy conversion devices. Herein, we introduce elements Ni and Mn into (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 nanosheets (NSs) at fixed geometrical sites, including Mnoct, Nioct, and Nitet, to optimize the initial geometrical structure and modulate the CoCo2O4 surface from oxygen-excess to oxygen-deficiency. The pristine (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet- (Co2)octO4 NSs shows excellent OER activity with an overpotential of 281.6 mV at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Moreover, without damaging their initial activity, the activated (Act)-(Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs after surface reconstruction exhibit long-term stability of 100 h under 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , or even 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . The optimal balance between electroactivity and stability leads to remarkable OER performances, providing a pivotal guideline for designing ideal electrocatalysts and inspiring more works to focus on the dynamic change of each occupation site component.

### *Introduction*

Escalating fossil fuel scarcity and depletion have raised growing attention toward energy conversion/storage technologies, such as rechargeable metal-air batteries[1] and electricity-driven water splitting.[2] Unfortunately, the high overpotential and sluggish kinetics greatly hinder the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), which is a pivotal process at the anode.[3] Currently, although iridium (Ir) or ruthenium (Ru)-based nanomaterials are used as highly efficient catalysts for OER; their high price and scarcity have cast a shadow over the widespread application.[4] This limitation thus imposes a considerable requirement on searching for more ideal OER electrocatalysts as alternatives.

AB2O4-type spinel oxides with controlled A and B geometrical sites, appear to be a class of promising candidates for the oxygen-involved reaction due to their low cost, high element abundance, and tunable electronic behaviors.[5] However, developing novel spinel oxides with excellent OER performance in alkaline media is still difficult. Therefore, various strategies have been applied to obtain ideal spinel-based electrocatalysts. For example, enhancing metal octahedral occupation, creating additional MO6 units, or fixing geometrical tetrahedral/octahedral geometrical sites via special metals substitution are common methods used to construct a structure–activity relationship.[6] Many TMs-based catalysts have been found to undergo irreversible structural reconstruction during the OER process and form newly-assembled species on the surface.[7] This reconstructed surface actually acts as a real place for related oxygen-evolved reactions.[8,9] It is widely accepted that doping transition metals can be used to introduce much more oxygen deficiencies to facilitate self-reconstruction.[6b] However, bridging the initial geometrical sites occupation of

[\*] Prof. L. An,+ J. Zhu, Prof. P. Xi, Prof. C.-H. Yan State Key Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry, Key Laboratory of Nonferrous Metal Chemistry and Resources Utilization of Gansu Province, Frontiers Science Center for Rare Isotopes, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Lanzhou University Lanzhou, 730000 (P. R. China)

E-mail: anli@lzu.edu.cn xipx@lzu.edu.cn

Dr. H. Zhang,<sup>+</sup> Prof. Y. Peng

Electron Microscopy Centre of Lanzhou University, School of Materials and Energy, Key Laboratory of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials of Ministry of Education, School of Physical Science and Technology, Lanzhou University

Lanzhou, 730000 (China)

Prof. S. Xi

Institute of Chemical and Engineering Sciences, Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A\*STAR)

1 Pesek Road,Singapore, 627833 (Singapore)

Prof. B. Huang, M. Sun

Department of Applied Biology and Chemical Technology, The

Hong Kong Polytechnic University

Hung Hom, Kow-loon, Hong Kong SAR (China)

E-mail: bhuang@polyu.edu.hk

Prof. C.-H. Yan

Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth Materials Chemistry and Applications, PKU-HKU Joint Laboratory in Rare Earth Materials and Bioinorganic Chemistry, College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University

Beijing 100871 (China)

<sup>+</sup>] These authors contributed equally to this work.

## **Forschungsartikel**

substituted cations and achieving changeable reconstruction for a highly OER active/stable surface still remain elusive.

Herein, we report a class of Ni/Mn substituted (Co)<sub>tet</sub>-(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (where "tet" indicates tetrahedral sites and "oct" indicates octahedral sites) spinel oxide nanosheets (NSs) obtained without destroying the normal spinel structure of (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. As the maximum M (Ni/Mn) occupation at geometrical octahedral Co sites, the optimized (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs with the largest Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> ratio, the lowest valence state of cobalt, the smallest  $e_g$  occupancy in the octahedron, and geometrical sites of Mnoct, Nioct, and Nitet give the best initial OER activity with an overpotential of 281.6 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In addition, Ni/Mn substitution helps to construct the oxygen-deficient surface to modify the surface environment and thus facilitates lattice oxygens to participate in the surface reactions through a decoupled proton-electron transfer process. This reconstructed surface can protect the inner structure from further oxidation to keep it stable during subsequent cycles. The activated (Act)-(Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs after surface reconstruction have similar OER activity to the initial NSs and can remain stable for 100 h at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, or even 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. DFT calculations confirm that the incorporation of Ni and Mn not only increases the electroactivity of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs by activating the O-sites but also guarantees long-term stability via the Mn 3d orbitals. The low-coordinated Ni sites at the edge are highly electroactive regions, and the Mn 3d orbitals mainly guarantee the robust electronic structures of Co and Ni sites for efficient OER performance.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) experiments demonstrated the successful synthesis of (M)- $(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4$   $(M = Ni/2)_{oct}O_4$ Mn) with normal spinel crystal, as exhibited in Figures S1 and S2. These spinel oxides have the morphology of 2D NSs, as shown in Figures S3-S5. Owing to their different natures, Mn elements tend to take up the middle sites in a sheet, whereas Ni elements prefer to occupy edge sites, as supported by the energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) elemental mappings (Figure S6). As is known, the electronic structure of spinel oxides is greatly affected by the spatial distribution of transition metal cations in octahedral or tetrahedral sites. In this situation, guided by related schematic crystal unit-cell models (Figure 1a), both experimental scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) images (Figure 1b-d) and theoretical simulated STEM images (Figure 1e-g) of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs oriented in the [011], [111], and [112] directions were projected to analyze the atomic arrangements. All these results illustrated that ordered metals occupied at tetrahedral A sites and octahedral B sites projected along either the [011], [111], or [112] zone axes are nearly 1:2, which matches well with the theoretical sites occupations of cations in an ideal normal CoCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> spinel oxide. Combined with atomicresolution high-angle annular dark-field aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy

(HAADF-STEM), the atomic oxygen arrangement captured by dark-field scanning TEM (DF-STEM) in Figure S7 also proves the spinel structure of the NSs. In addition, convergent beam electron diffraction (CBED) patterns under three orientations, as shown in the insets of Figure 1ac, further verify that hetero-atoms Ni/Mn was successfully substituted into the (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> lattice, but the basic structure of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs still remains as a normal spinel one. Meanwhile, atomic-resolution EDS elemental mappings of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs and the corresponding EDS line scan from three directions display the same arrangement and fluctuation form of Ni and Co, revealing that Ni has a similar site geometrical occupation tendency as Co, as shown in Figure 1h and Figure S8. Electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) mapping of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs oriented in the geometrical octahedral sites direction are shown in Figure S9, indicating that substituted Mn mainly occupied at the geometrical octahedral sites. According to the EELS spectral information of pure (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs and (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs, the valence state of Co could be reduced by Ni/Mn substitution (Figure 1i,j), which may be caused by their different electronegativities and electron spin states.<sup>[10]</sup> A Lower Co valence state can be observed at the local position with more hetero-atoms content (Figure S10). Besides, the hybridization of O 2p and Co 3d also changed owing to the presence of Ni/Mn dopants, demonstrating that Ni/Mn could modify the surface oxygen state of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs (Figure S11).

The local atomic structure of (M)- $(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4$  (M =Ni/Mn) NSs was further investigated utilizing Fourier transform (FT) extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EX-AFS) spectra. After elemental substitution, (M)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>- $(Co_2)_{oct}O_4$  (M=Ni/Mn) NSs have a complex Co structure (Figure S12). [6c,7a] The Raman spectra demonstrate a different geometrical site occupation condition and relatively more disordered structure in (M)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (M=Ni/ Mn) NSs (Figure S13). [5b] Figure 2a shows the EXAFS spectra of (M)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (M=Ni/Mn) NSs at Co Kedge in R space. Three significant peaks are shown ranging from 0.0-4.0 Å, which can be assigned to Co-O (from 1.0 to 2.0 Å, peak 1), Co<sub>oct</sub>-Co<sub>oct</sub> (at around 2.5 Å, peak 2), and Co<sub>tet</sub>-Co<sub>oct</sub>/Co<sub>tet</sub>-Co<sub>tet</sub> (at around 3.0 Å, peak 3), respectively.<sup>[5d,7a]</sup> As observed, the weakened peak 1 and reduced average coordination number by  $\approx 0.6$  (Table S1-S4) indicate that the cobalt-oxygen coordination number of (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs was lower after incorporating Ni/Mn. The intensity of peak 2 in  $(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4$  NSs' profile is significantly higher than metal-doped (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs, suggesting octahedrally coordinated Co may be affected by doped cations. The concentration of Co occupation at octahedral sites followed by  $(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4$  NSs > (Mn)- $(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni)-(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_4 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 NSs > (Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{oct}O_5 N$ (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs, which is consistent with the quantitative least-squares EXAFS curve fitting results (Figures S14, S15, and Tables S1-S4). The decreased number of Co octahedral sites is mainly due to Ni or Mn substitution. This is further demonstrated by the EXAFS profiles at Mn Kedge (Figure 2b) and Ni K-edge (Figure 2c) in R space,

*Figure 1.* a) Perspective view of unit cells along [011], [111], and [112] zone axes, respectively. Purple spheres mean tetrahedral sites and blue ones mean octahedral sites. b–d) The experimental HAADF-STEM images of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs observed in [011], [111], and [112] orientations, respectively. The inset shows the corresponding CBED patterns. e–g) The theoretical STEM images simulated by Quantitative TEM/ STEM Simulations Package (QSTEM) software projected along [011], [111], and [112] orientations, respectively. h) Atomic-resolution EDS line scan of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs obtained from line 1 in Figure S8a. The full (i) and magnified (j) EELS spectra of pure (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs and (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NS.

where the intensities of Mnoct Moct and Nioct Moct are significantly higher than that of Mntet Mtet/Moct and Nitet Mtet/Moct, suggesting that both the introduced Mn and Ni prefer to occupy geometrical octahedral sites. Two similar intensity maxima at approximately 6.6 Å <sup>1</sup> were observed in Figure 2d, demonstrating that the element doping process does not change the main structure of (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 spinel oxides (Figure S16 and S17).[11] Combined with the inferred results from HAADF-STEM and EELS, it is reasonable to deduce the doped atoms are geometrical Mnoct, major Nioct, and minor Nitet.

Moreover, the increased intensity and negative shift of peak 2 observed in figure 2b were due to the presence of the element Ni; in turn, an inverse correlation owing to the incorporation of Mn is seen in figure 2c, suggesting that manganese cations and nickel cations show a strong interaction via oxygen anion (Figure S18). This phenomenon between Mn and Ni was further proved by an X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis of Mn *2p* and Ni *2p* (Figure S19). Meanwhile, along with an enhanced substitution degree of geometrical octahedral sites (%) by Ni/ Mn, Co2<sup>+</sup>/Co3<sup>+</sup> exhibits an increasing trend (Figure S20 and Table S5), the valence state of cobalt becomes lower (which is consistent with the EELS results), and its *eg* occupancy is closer to unity (Figure S21).[12]

The initial OER electrocatalytic performance of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs was then measured by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) under alkaline conditions. After *iR* correction and normalization to the geometric area,[13] (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs as the best-performing electrocatalysts greatly outperform the commercial Ir/C (20%) (Figures S22 and S23) and can undoubtedly be classified as an efficient OER electrocatalyst when compared with stateof-the-art OER catalysts reported recently (Table S6). A consistent trend was also found based on intrinsic activity analyses (Figures S24–S26, Table S7, and Table S8).[12] In addition, the high correlation coefficients between oxidation/reduction potentials against scan rates suggest that (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs have a sensitive surface for catalytic reaction (Figure S27).[14] As shown in Figure S28, (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs exhibit different pseudocapacitive behaviors, and their intrinsic OER activ-

*Figure 2.* Fourier transform (FT) *k3χ(R)* at a) Co K-edge, b) Mn K-edge, and c) Ni K-edge EXAFS of (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs. The inset of (a) exhibits the scheme of sites occupation in (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 crystal. d) Wavelet transforms (WT) for the k3 -weighted Co K-edge EXAFS signals of (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs. e) CV curves of (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs in O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH with a scan rate of 2 mVs <sup>1</sup> . The potential window is capped below 1.5 (V vs. RHE) to show the pre-OER behavior dominated by pseudocapacitive property. f) The plot of phase angle relaxation as a function of frequency for (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs at 1.524 V (vs. RHE). g) The linear correlation between *η* @ 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (mV vs. RHE) and the substitution degree of octahedral sites (%).

ities correlate well with the pseudocapacitive charges, which are related to the redox of surficial active sites.[15] This trend indicates that the OER activity of (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs is dominated by the pseudocapacitive behavior of Co. Two pairs of redox peaks can be observed during the OER process of (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/ Mn) NSs, which are ascribed to the redox pairs of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/ Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Co4<sup>+</sup>, respectively (Figure 2e and Figure S29).[5b] The oxidation peak of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs with the largest Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Co4<sup>+</sup> area shows a significant shift from 1.463 to 1.437 V [vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)] compared with (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs, illustrating (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs are more easily to be preoxidized and deprotonated.[16] The easier it is to deprotonate and form active oxygen sites, the easier it is to proceed anodic process and thus trigger the OER at a lower overpotential. Earlier studies disclosed that the oxidation of cobalt from low-valence (Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>) to high-valence (Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Co4<sup>+</sup>, which serves as active an intermediate species) plays a critical role in OER enhancement and the reduced valence state of cobalt is more easily pre-oxidized.[17] Thus, we speculate that Ni/Mn substitution could promote the preoxidation of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> at geometrical tetrahedral sites with low potential, initialize the surface reconstruction before the OER stage, and trigger the subsequent formation of a stable catalytic surface. In addition, Ni in nanosheets contribute more to Faraday capacitance and double-layer charging response (Figure 2e and Figure S24), offer a lower onset potential for (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs, and trigger (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs to show smaller charge-transfer resistance (*R*ct) for enhanced electronic conductivity; in turn, Mn prefer to ensure (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs with smaller series resistance (*R*s), as analyzed from the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) (Figure S30 and Table S9). Figure 2f merges the Bode phase plots of (M)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs at the same applied bias of 1.524 V (vs. RHE). The high-frequency region ranging from 10<sup>2</sup> to 10<sup>4</sup> Hz should be related to the Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> at the octahedral sites,[6c] which shows a similar tendency with the result of EXAFS. Owing to the widely accepted effects of MO6 octahedra geometry on oxygen-evolved reaction,[6] we present the OER activity (described as *η* @ 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) based on the substitution degree of octahedral sites in Figure 2g. This activity contrast suggests that (Ni,Mn)- (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs with a higher substitution degree, larger Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Co3<sup>+</sup> ratio, the lower valence state of cobalt,[6c] and smaller *eg* occupancy at octahedral sites according to crystal field theory[18] are more active for OER. And the regular correlation reveals the important effect of Nioct and Mnoct on the OER activity.

Especially, using the continuous chronopotentiometry (CP)–cyclic voltammetry (CV) model, the stability and activation tendency was observed in Figure 3. It is noteworthy that the substituted oxides series, including both

Figure 3. a) Chronopotentiometric response of (M)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (M = Ni/Mn) NSs for OER at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. b) CV curves for (M)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (M = Ni/Mn) NSs after different times of CP measurements a scan rate of 2 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. c) The variation of current density for (M)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (M = Ni/Mn) NSs presented in histogram. d) Conventional concerted proton-electron transfer mechanism (left); One kind of non-concerted proton-electron transfer mechanism (middle); A non-concerted proton-electron transfer path triggered by the redox of lattice oxygen (middle). In the panels of (d), red and blue spheres denote lattice oxygens and species from the electrolyte, respectively.

single (Ni or Mn) and double (Ni and Mn) substitution, have superior stability than (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Figure 3a). Furthermore, the stability number (S-number)[19] of  $(Ni,Mn)-(Co)_{tet}(Co_2)_{oct}O_4$  NSs  $(1.29*10^7)$  and  $(Mn)-(Co)_{tet}$ (Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs (1.26\*10<sup>7</sup>) are both approximately two times higher than that of (Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs (6.61\*10<sup>6</sup>) (Figure S31). Such higher stability can be attributed to the presence of Mn. It thus can conclude that elements Ni and Mn contribute more to activity and stability, respectively. Figure S32 gives a visual analysis. It is clear that (Co)<sub>tet</sub>-(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs present continuously decreased OER activity of about 26.71 % after four CP measurements; the current density fluctuations of (Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and (Ni)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs remained under or about 10 % change, which is within the error range; in contrast, a remarkable activity promotion of about 31.50% occurs on (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs (Figure 3b,c). This prominent activity promotion (31.50%), the significant pH dependence (Figure S33a), and in situ <sup>18</sup>O isotope-labeling differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) measurements (Figure S33b) of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> demonstrate the possible pathway of non-concerted proton-electron transfer during the OER process.[20] We thus conclude that the largest octahedral site occupation by both Ni and Mn may switch the conventional concerted proton-electron transfer

to the decoupled proton-electron process (Figure 3d and Figure S34), which may involve the redox of lattice oxygen (for comparison, the corresponding equations are listed in Table S10).<sup>[3]</sup> This could be confirmed from the surface states. The surface is changed from having cation vacancies (meaning an oxygen excess of about +0.05) into having oxygen deficiency with a chemical formula of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4- $\delta$ </sub> ( $\delta$ =0.04), which is discussed in detail in Figure S35 and Tables S11, S12.<sup>[9,12]</sup> Surficial oxygen vacancies have been demonstrated to be a critical factor in modifying the surface environment for evolving active oxyhydroxides or even triggering the oxygen-exchange mechanism according to the defect chemistry. [6b,9,12] The decreased content of lattice oxygen in (Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Figures S36, S37, and Table S12) further confirms the lattice oxygen-mediated OER mechanism.[3] In addition, after 90 min CP electrochemical activation process, the ratio of (oxygen in OH<sup>-</sup>)/(oxygen in oxide) for Act-(Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tet</sub>-(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs is increased, demonstrating that the reconstructed surface is highly hydroxylated (Figure S37 and Table S13).[5c] This is further illustrated by HAADF-STEM images, where abundant oxyhydroxides were observed on the reconstructed surface (as shown in Figure S38). Most importantly, the Act-(Ni,Mn)-(Co)<sub>tot</sub>(Co<sub>2</sub>)<sub>oct</sub>O<sub>4</sub> NSs show long-term durability of 30 h under multi-current steps 18213737, 2023, 3. Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ang.e.020214600 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Co

,

*Angewandte*

measurement (from 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> to 60 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) and even keep stable for at least 100 h at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively (Figures S39 and S40). The 10.20% reduction for 120 min-CV in Figure 3b,c further confirm that after dynamic self-optimization, the activity of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs returns to the original value and keeps dynamic stability. All these results suggest that the lattice oxygen-exchange mechanism for the overall decoupled proton-electron transfer promotes surface reconstruction, and the self-assembled oxyhydroxides-rich surface is more stable in subsequent cycles (Figures S41 and S42). The involvement of lattice oxygen that occurred in the activation process is found to be not dominated during the subsequent OER catalysis (Figure S43).

Then, we further applied the density functional theory (DFT) calculations to investigate the remarkable OER performances of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4. Introducing Ni and Mn atoms does not cause a significant change in the electronic distributions near the Fermi level (EF) (Figure 4a,b). Surface geometrical octahedral sites are the main electroactive sites while the geometrical tetrahedral sites are dominated by the anti-bonding orbitals. Moreover, the surface Ni sites can activate the nearby O sites to be more electron-rich. It is also noted that the incorporation of Ni and Mn sites does not induce any evident structural distortions, supporting the stability of the structures. We further compared the electronic structures of (M)-(Co)tet- (Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) series (Figure 4c–f). For pristine (Co)tet(Co2)octO4, Co *3d* orbitals display an evident peak at EV 0.80 eV (EV =0 eV) and O *2p* orbitals mainly occupy the deeper position of *2p* orbitals. For (Ni)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4, we notice that Ni *3d* orbitals have a good overlapping with Co *3d* orbitals, which shows a slightly higher peak at EV 0.74 eV than Co *3d* orbitals at EV 0.82 eV. The Ni *3d* sites exhibit the closest position towards the EF, which indicates the high electroactivity of surface Ni sites, leading to the possible formation of NiOOH due to the high instability of low-coordinated Ni sites at the edge and surface. In (Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 system, the Mn *3d* orbitals demonstrate an evident eg-t2g splitting of 3.32 eV. Notably, although the Co *3d* orbitals are slightly suppressed to EV 0.84 eV, the good protection by the Mn *3d* orbitals improves the stability of Co sites. When Co3O4 is substituted with both Ni and Mn, we notice that Co *3d* is further suppressed to EV 0.84 eV, indicating the reduced valence states. Compared to (Ni)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4, the valence states of Ni have also been slightly lowered, which is consistent with the XPS results. For a detailed comparison, we summarized the *p* band center of O and *d* band center of Co in different structures (Figure 4g). Notably, (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 shows the largest barrier between the O *p* band center and the Co *d* band center, which reveals the lowest electroactivity. In comparison, (Ni)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 and (Ni,Mn)- (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 uplift the O *p* band center, leading to a much-reduced difference between the *d* band center and *p* band center. More discussions are made in Figure S44 about O *2p* PDOS. In addition, the smallest difference of the *p*-*d* band in (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 supports the highest

*Figure 4.* The 3D contour plot of electronic distribution near Fermi level of a) (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 and b) (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4. The left panel is the top view and the right panel is the side view. Blue balls=Co, orange balls=Ni, purple balls=Mn, red balls=O. Blue isosurface=bonding orbitals and green isosurface=anti-bonding orbitals. The PDOS of c) (Co)tet(Co2)octO4, d) (Ni)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4, e) (Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4, and f) (Ni,Mn)- (Co)tet(Co2)octO4. g) The summarized *d* band center and *p* band center of different structures. h) The site-dependent PDOS of Co *3d* in (Ni,Mn)- (Co)tet(Co2)octO4. i) The site-dependent PDOS of O *2p* in (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4.

*Angewandte*

electron transfer efficiency to promote OER performances. The geometrical site-dependent PDOS of Co sites demonstrates that the Ni and Mn sites show the opposite influence of nearby Co *3d* orbitals, where Ni enables the upshifting and Mn leads to the downshifting (Figure 4h). Such converse modulation directions balance the overall electronic structures, enabling the robust electronic structure during the OER process. The low-coordinated Co sites in the octahedral center show efficient electron transfer capability. On the other side, the O *2p* sites do not show significant change within the bulk (Figure 4i). However, the O *2p* orbitals are significantly activated by the nearby Ni sites, especially at the surface, which further promotes the site-to-site electron transfer for the alkaline OER. From the perspective of electronic structure, the optimized OER performances of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 are attributed to the optimal balance between high electroactivity and stability.

Such surface self-optimization of these three metal elements and the dynamical surface reconstruction process were further characterized by multiple in situ characterizations, EXAFS and *quasi*-operando XPS. As shown by the in situ EIS, the semicircle of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 decreased more significantly than (Co)tet(Co2)octO4, indicating its a faster-polarized degree (Figure S45).[21] In situ attenuated total reflection infrared (ATR-IR) was used to capture the adsorbed intermediate.[22] The absorption band at around 1235 cm <sup>1</sup> (means the surface-adsorbed OOH) of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (1.15 V) emerged earlier than pure (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (1.25 V), demonstrating that the doped Ni/Mn could promote surface hydroxyl groups accumulation (Figure S46a,b). No obvious newly-generated phase was detected during OER by in situ Raman spectra under different potentials, which can be attributed to the similar Raman peaks of Co-based oxides and oxyhydroxides, revealing the stable main structure of spinel oxides against oxidation reaction (Figure S46c).

Figure 5a–c gives the EXAFS profiles at Co K-edge, Mn K-edge, and Ni K-edge of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 and Act-(Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs. Three separate peaks indicate the average TM O bond, TMoct TMoct bond, and TMtet TMtet/TMoct bond, respectively, which can be observed in Figure S47. As for the TM O scattering path, a slightly compressed M O bond could be observed at the Ni K edge and Mn K edge, indicating partial surface oxidation.[6c] However, the length of the Co O bond remains nearly constant, suggesting that the presence of Ni and Mn makes surficial Co more stable, which is consistent with the enhanced S-number of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 (1.29\*10<sup>7</sup> ). It happens that there is a similar case in inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), after introducing Mn and Ni, the leached Co in the electrolyte is greatly decreased (Table S14). The decreased intensity of TMoct TMoct bond and TMtet TMtet/TMoct bond for all three elements further reflects the different metal-sites occupation conditions after OER activation. Interestingly, compared with the profiles of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4, peak 3 collected at the Ni K-edge disappeared after electrochemical activation, illustrating Nitet migration into unoccupied octahedral sites or leaching into

*Figure 5.* The FT-EXAFS profiles at a) Co K-edge, b) Mn K-edge, and c) Ni K-edge for (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 before and after OER activation process. d) The *quasi*-operando XPS of Co 2p, Ni 2p, and Mn 2p of (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4. These voltages are corresponding to RHE. e) Schematic diagram of possible disproportionation process and surface reconstruction.

the electrolyte during this process. As is known, both the Nispinel and Ni-(oxy)-hydroxide possess edge-sharing MO6 octahedral structure, thus it is challenging to distinguish and capture the real sites of octahedral-occupied Ni. However, it is reasonable to speculate that self-optimization of surface composition is directly relevant to Ni at tetrahedral sites and the completely transformed Nitet into Nioct or the Nitet leakage evolves or drives a stable state for the succedent catalytic reaction. No matter which possibility, the role of Nitet can not be ignored.

Furthermore, as displayed by the *quasi*-operando XPS results (Figure 5d and Figures S48, S49), with increasing applied voltage, the valence state of Co gradually goes up and an obvious phase shift occurs at 1.45 V. We thus speculate that a surface reconstruction can be mainly finished in the pseudocapacitive region between 1.40 V and 1.45 V, which is similar to the oxidation position of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/ Co<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> at 1.437 V (Figure S50). This low reconstruction voltage before the pre-OER and OER stage can ensure that the surface exhibits an excellent initial OER activity. A monotonically positive shift to higher binding energies (BEs) without an obvious shift gap is observed in the highresolution XPS profile of Ni *2p*, indicating an increased valence state of Ni during the oxidation process. This oxidized Ni with reduced ionic radium prefers to take up the geometrical octahedral sites and facilitate the surface reconstruction,[23] which is consistent with the EXAFS results. It is worth noting that the BE of Mn *2p* decreases with the applied potentials ranging from open-circuit potential (OCP) to 1.60 V (vs. RHE) with a sharp BE shift at 1.45 V and increase at 1.65 V (vs. RHE) after the surface phase change. This phenomenon could be a consequence of surface rearrangement and the dynamic equilibrium process of Mnoct on the reconstructed surface, making (Ni,Mn)- (Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs a robust catalyst with a stable selfassembled surface for efficient and stable oxygen-involved reaction. The dynamic balancing process was further supported by ICP-MS for analyzing the corresponding dissolved Co, Mn, and Ni from (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs over CP measurement. The concentration of Mn cations after CP tests (1.15 ppb for (Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs and 1.13 ppb for (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs is even lower than that of the pure KOH (3.96 ppb) before measurements. Visualized by the scheme in Figure 5e, this counterintuitive phenomenon can be rationalized by the dissolution and redeposition equilibrium of Mn proceeding via Mn2<sup>+</sup>!Mn<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> !Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> due to the disproportionation of Mn<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we have synthesized a class of (M)-(Co)tet- (Co2)octO4 (M=Ni/Mn) NSs, in which (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet- (Co2)octO4 NSs give rise to prominent OER electroactivity via tunning geometrical octahedral sites occupancy of substitution elements. This (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs with Mnoct, Nioct, and Nitet occupation shows an overpotential of 281.6 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . DFT calculations revealed that Ni and Mn sites could improve the electroactivity through efficient site-to-site electron transfer. In addition, selfoptimized surface reconstruction was triggered by surficial oxygen deficiency owing to Ni/Mn substitution via a nonconcerted proton-electron mechanism. Importantly, after this surface activation, the Act-(Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet(Co2)octO4 NSs has similar OER activity to initial (Ni,Mn)-(Co)tet- (Co2)octO4 NSs and superior stability of 100 h at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , or ever 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. Based on an in-depth understanding of the individual contributions of different geometrical sites, more precise modulations, and significant improvements in electroactivity can be expected in future works.

### *Acknowledgements*

We acknowledge support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 22201111, 21922105, 21931001, and 22271124), the National Key R&D Program of China (2021YFA1501101), and the National Natural Science Foundation of Gansu Province (22JR5RA470), the Special Fund Project of Guiding Scientific and Technological Innovation Development of Gansu Province (2019ZX-04) and the 111 Project (B20027). We also acknowledge support from the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (lzujbky-2021-sp62). B.H. acknowledges the support of the Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (No. 21771156) and the Early Career Scheme (ECS) fund (Grant PolyU 253026/16P) from the Research Grant Council (RGC) in Hong Kong.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### *Data Availability Statement*

Research data are not shared.

**Keywords:** geometrical site occupation **·** surface reconstruction **·** decoupled proton-electron transfer **·** OER **·** well-balanced performance

- [1] a) M. Armand, J.-M. Tarascon, *Nature* **2008**, *451*, [652–657;](https://doi.org/10.1038/451652a) b) W. Xiang, N. Yang, X. Li, J. Linnemann, U. Hagemann, O. Ruediger, M. Heidelmann, T. Falk, M. Aramini, S. DeBeer, M. Muhler, K. Tschulik, T. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 179.
- [2] a) M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, *Science* **2008**, *321*, [1072–1075;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1162018) b) Z. Shao, Q. Zhu, Y. Sun, Y. Zhang, Y. Jiang, S. Deng, W. Zhang, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, [2110172.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202110172)
- [3] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y.-L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, [457–465](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2695).
- [4] a) L. An, B. Huang, Y. Zhang, R. Wang, N. Zhang, T. Dai, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [9459–9463;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201903879) *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, [9559–9563](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201903879).

# *Forschungsartikel*

- [5] a) L. An, L. Huang, P. Zhou, J. Yin, H. Liu, P. Xi, *Adv. [Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201503784) Mater.* **2015**, *25*, [6814–6822](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201503784); b) Z. Xiao, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C. Xie, Z. Liu, S. Du, W. Chen, D. Yan, L. Tao, Z. Shu, G. Zhang, H. Duan, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, R. Chen, S. Wang, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c00257) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [12087–12095](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c00257); c) C. Wei, Z. Feng, M. Baisariyev, L. Yu, L. Zeng, T. Wu, H. Zhao, Y. Huang, M. J. Bedzyk, T. Sritharan, Z. J. Xu, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b00713) Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 4129– [4133;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b00713) d) C. Li, X. Han, F. Cheng, Y. Hu, C. Chen, J. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 7345–7353.
- [6] a) Y. Zhou, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, B. Chen, Y. Du, A. C. Fisher, F. Cheng, X. Wang, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802912)* **2018**, *30*, [1802912;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802912) b) J. Yin, J. Jin, H. Liu, B. Huang, M. Lu, J. Li, H. Liu, H. Zhang, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202001651)* **2020**, *32*, [2001651](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202001651); c) H.-Y. Wang, S.-F. Hung, H.-Y. Chen, T.- S. Chan, H. M. Chen, B. Liu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b10525) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 36– [39.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b10525)
- [7] a) T. Wu, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, Y. Du, B. Chen, W. A. Sasangka, H. Liao, C. L. Gan, G. G. Scherer, L. Zeng, H. Wang, H. Li, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0325-4)* **2019**, *2*, 763– [772;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0325-4) b) J. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, G. Rao, C. Wu, Y. Hu, X. Wang, R. Lu, Y. Li, J. Xiong, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201910716) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [17458–17464;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201910716) *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, [17619–17625.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201910716)
- [8] a) R. Zhang, N. Dubouis, M. B. Osman, W. Yin, M. T. Sougrati, D. A. D. Corte, D. Giaume, A. Grimaud, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201814075) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [4571–4575;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201814075) *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201814075) Chem.* **2019**, *131*, [4619–4623;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201814075) b) Y. Sun, R. Li, X. Chen, J. Wu, Y. Xie, X. Wang, K. Ma, L. Wang, Z. Zhang, Q. Liao, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202003755) Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, [2003755.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202003755)
- [9] J. T. Mefford, X. Rong, A. M. Abakumov, W. G. Hardin, S. Dai, A. M. Kolpak, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 11053–11063.
- [10] a) X. Zeng, J. Zhang, S. Zhu, X. Deng, H. Ma, J. Zhang, Q. Zhang, P. Li, D. Xue, N. J. Mellors, X. Zhang, Y. Peng, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, [7493–7500;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR02013A) b) J. Jin, J. Yin, H. Liu, B. Huang, Y. Hu, H. Zhang, M. Sun, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [14117–14123;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202104055) *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202104055) Chem.* **2021**, *133*, [14236–14242](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202104055).
- [11] a) Z. Xia, H. Zhang, K. Shen, Y. Qu, Z. Jiang, *[Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physb.2018.04.039) B* **2018**, *[542](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physb.2018.04.039)*, 12; b) G. Meng, W. Sun, A. A. Mon, X. Wu, L. Xia, A. Han, Y. Wang, Z. Zhuang, J. Liu, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201903616)* **2019**, *31*, [1903616](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201903616).

- [12] C. Wie, Z. Feng, G. G. Scherer, J. Barber, Y. Shao-Horn, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606800.
- [13] L. An, J. Feng, Y. Zhang, R. Wang, H. Liu, G.-C. Wang, F. Cheng, P. Xi, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, [1805298.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201805298)
- [14] L. An, P. Zhou, J. Yin, H. Liu, F. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Du, P. Xi, *Inorg. Chem.* **2015**, *54*, [3281–3289](https://doi.org/10.1021/ic502920r).
- [15] K. A. Stoerzinger, L. Qiao, M. D. Biegalski, Y. Shao-Horn, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz500610u) Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2014**, *5*, [1636–1641.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz500610u)
- [16] M. Görlin, J. F. de Araújo, H. Schmies, D. Bernsmeier, S. Dresp, M. Gliech, Z. Jusys, P. Chernev, R. Kraehnert, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [2070–2082](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b12250).
- [17] a) B. S. Yeo, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja200559j) Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 5587– [5593](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja200559j); b) M. W. Kanan, J. Yano, Y. Surendranath, M. Dincă, V. K. Yachandra, D. G. Nocera, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja1023767) Soc.* **2010**, *132*, [13692–13701](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja1023767).
- [18] J. Hwang, R. R. Rao, L. Giordano, Y. Katayama, Y. Yu, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science* **2017**, *358*, [751–756.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aam7092)
- [19] a) S. Geiger, O. Kasian, M. Ledendecker, E. Pizzutilo, A. M. Mingers, W. T. Fu, O. Diaz-Morales, Z. Li, T. Oellers, L. Fruchter, A. Ludwig, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, M. T. M. Koper, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0085-6) Catal.* **2018**, *1*, [508–515;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0085-6) b) Y. Chen, H. Li, J. Wang, Y. Du, S. Xi, Y. Sun, M. Sherburne, J. W. Ager III, A. C. Fisher, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 572–581.
- [20] a) L. An, C. Wei, M. Lu, H. Liu, Y. Chen, G. G. Scherer, A. C. Fisher, P. Xi, Z. J. Xu, C.-H. Yan, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202006328)* **2021**, *33*, [2006328](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202006328); b) L. Zhang, L. Wang, Y. Wen, F. Ni, B. Zhang, H. Peng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, [2002297](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202002297).
- [21] Q. Wen, K. Yang, D. Huang, G. Cheng, X. Ai, Y. Liu, J. Fang, H. Li, L. Yu, T. Zhai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, [2102353.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102353)
- [22] Y. Yao, S. Hu, W. Chen, Z.-Q. Huang, W. Wei, T. Yao, R. Liu, K. Zang, X. Wang, G. Wu, W. Yuan, T. Yuan, B. Zhu, W. Liu, Z. Li, D. He, Z. Xue, Y. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Juncai Dong, C.- R. Chang, Y. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, S. Wei, W.-X. Li, P. Strasser, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, [304–313](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0246-2).
- [23] Y. Zhou, S. Sun, C. Wei, Y. Sun, P. Xi, Z. Feng, Z. J. Xu, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201902509) Mater.* **2019**, *31*, [1902509.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201902509)

Manuscript received: October 4, 2022 Accepted manuscript online: November 11, 2022 Version of record online: December 8, 2022