---
source: Bai 等 - 2023 - Low Ruthenium Content Confined on Boron Carbon Nitride as an Efficient and Stable Electrocatalyst fo.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 55.033s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:11:18.660704Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202308704 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202308704](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202308704)

# **Low Ruthenium Content Confined on Boron Carbon Nitride as an Efficient and Stable Electrocatalyst for Acidic Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*[Xiaofang](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3266-1079) Bai, Xiuping Zhang, Yujiao Sun, [Mingcheng](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-1041-7734) Huang, Jiantao Fan, Shaoyi Xu,\* and [Hui](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8356-6154) Li\**

**Abstract:** To date, only a few noble metal oxides exhibit the required efficiency and stability as oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysts under the acidic, high-voltage conditions that exist during proton exchange membrane water electrolysis (PEMWE). The high cost and scarcity of these catalysts hinder the large-scale application of PEMWE. Here, we report a novel OER electrocatalyst for OER comprised of uniformly dispersed Ru clusters confined on boron carbon nitride (BCN) support. Compared to RuO2, our BCN-supported catalyst shows enhanced charge transfer. It displays a low overpotential of 164 mV at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , suggesting its excellent OER catalytic activity. This catalyst was able to operate continuously for over 12 h under acidic conditions, whereas RuO2 without any support fails in 1 h. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations confirm that the interaction between the N on BCN support and Ru clusters changes the adsorption capacity and reduces the OER energy barrier, which increases the electrocatalytic activity of Ru.

[\*] X. Bai, X. Zhang, Y. Sun, M. Huang, Prof. Dr. H. Li

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Southern University of Science and Technology

518055 Shenzhen, Guangdong (China)

E-mail: hui.li@sustech.edu.cn

Prof. Dr. J. Fan, Prof. Dr. S. Xu

Academy for Advanced Interdisciplinary Studies, Southern University of Science and Technology

518055 Shenzhen, Guangdong (China)

and

Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Energy Materials for Electric Power, Southern University of Science and Technology 518055 Shenzhen, Guangdong (China)

E-mail: xusy@sustech.edu.cn

Prof. Dr. H. Li

Key University Laboratory of Highly Efficient Utilization of Solar Energy and Sustainable Development, Southern University of Science and Technology

518055 Shenzhen, Guangdong (China)

and

Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Hydrogen Energy, Southern University of Science and Technology

518055 Shenzhen, Guangdong (China)

### *Introduction*

The oxygen evolution reaction (OER), which is a bottleneck in water splitting, as it suffers greatly from its sluggish fourelectron mechanism and slow reaction kinetics. Nowadays, state-of-the-art catalysts for OER are based on iridium(Ir) due to its excellent catalytic activity and stability.[1] However, the high price (Ir costs USD 157.54/g) and scarcity of these catalysts hamper their large-scale industrial applications.[1–2] Compared with Ir-based catalysts, those based on ruthenium (Ru) have recently attracted attention for water splitting due to their lower cost (Ru is USD 19.93/ g) and excellent electrocatalytic activity, but they are inclined to dissolve under high potentials and in acidic environments.[3] For these reasons, it is desirable to explore a Ru-based OER catalyst with enhanced durability and activity and low Ru content.

Good dispersity of noble metals on a nanostructured support is one of the most efficient strategies to reduce the use of precious metals. This strategy can increase the number of exposed active sites, improve the utilization of noble metal atoms, and enhance the structural stability of catalysts.[4] Coordination between noble metal atoms and the support can prevent metal aggregation, resulting in stable and finely dispersed noble metal clusters.[4d,5] The interface between the noble metal and the support can also cause electron rearrangement, which is conducive to the adsorption of intermediate products.[6]

Carbon materials have been extensively developed as catalyst supports. However, carbon-based supports are easily oxidized under proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolysis conditions. Recently, researchers have shown increasing interest in catalysts supported on graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) due to its high physicochemical stability during harsh acidic conditions for oxygen evolution.[7] The strong interaction between the lone-pair electrons of nitrogen and the d-orbitals of Ru offers significant possibilities for anchoring and stabilizing the noble metal.[8] Such strong coordination can lead to electronic structural rearrangements, which adjust the adsorption of reaction intermediates.[7b,c,9] Unfortunately, g-C3N4 cannot meet the requirements in the harsh environment of PEMWE.

It has been reported that incorporating boron into CNx can improve the latter's thermal stability and oxidation resistance.[10] Qiu's group also found that boron carbon nitrogen (BCN) showed smaller charge transfer resistance

15213757, 2023, 38, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308704 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

than g-C3N4 in capacitive deionization for ion removal from saline water.[11] For this reason, it is possible that BCN might be an excellent OER support for Ru catalysts. B atoms also can activate the N sites, because B N has greater electronegativity than C N, which could reinforce the coordination interaction between Ru and N. The durability of Ru-based catalysts might thus be enhanced against high-potential and corrosive conditions.

In this work, we designed, synthesized, and studied Ru catalysts supported on boron carbon nitrogen-based material (BCN-xRu, *x*=0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0) for acidic water splitting. The lone electron pair of the active N in BCN coordinated with the metal, forming highly stable Ru N. Benefiting from a graphene-like structure, the BCN-0.5Ru catalyst exhibited greater conductivity than RuO2. The strong interaction between Ru and the BCN support also allowed accelerated charge transfer at the electrode interface. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed to investigate the electron rearrangement of BCN-0.5Ru. The catalyst exhibited an extremely low overpotential of 164 mV at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> geo with a loading of 102 μgcm <sup>2</sup> catalyst, as well as excellent stability during continuous operation for 12 h of acidic OER. To further study this significantly improved electrocatalytic activity, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed to elucidate the influence of the interaction between the BCN support and Ru clusters.

#### *Results and Discussion*

A facile and efficient method was developed to synthesize the BCN-xRu catalyst (Figure 1a). The BCN precursor was first prepared by a hydrothermal process using melamine and boric acid. After mixing with Ru precursor, the supported catalyst was obtained by annealing under an Ar atmosphere (details in the Supporting Information). The X-ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern of BCN-xRu (*x*=0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0) is shown in Figure 1b. The peaks at 38.38°, 42.15°, 44.00°, 58.32°, 69.41°, 78.39°, 82.22°, 84.70°, and 85.95° correspond to the Ru (100), (002), (101), (102), (110), (103), (200), (112), and (201) crystal planes (JCPDS no. 06–0663), respectively. Six atoms in the crystal structure form regular hexagons, which surround a single atom in the center. This is known as the hexagonal close-packed (hcp) crystal structure. The space groups of Ru with a hcp structure are P63/mmc(194). The low crystallinity of BCN is attributed to incomplete thermal polymerization/condensation, which results in unreacted amino moieties. Those amino groups often cause defects in BCN, which results in low crystallinity, further suppressing in-plane charge mobility.[12] Compared to the bare BCN, BCN-0.5Ru exhibits two small peaks at 14.58° and 28.11°, which are not present in BCN. This indicates that loading Ru is beneficial for improving the crystallinity of BCN. This could be explained by the fact that the Ru ions can react with the amino groups, thereby reducing the defects in BCN and increasing its crystallinity.[8,12] Two small peaks at 14.58° and 28.11° in BCN-0.5Ru are shifted slightly higher than those of BN (BN: 13.22° and 26.62°, BN no. 74-1978). It suggests that the BCN possesses smaller crystal plane spacing than BN, possibly caused by the incorporation of C atom dopants, which have a smaller covalent radius than B (C, 0.75 Å vs. B, 0.84 Å). This indicates that C is incorporated into the BN lattice, causing a structural change. The crystallization of the BCN support in BCN-0.5Ru is enhanced compared to its analogues and the bare BCN, according to the XRD pattern results (Figure 1b). High crystallinity leads to an increase in structural orderliness, which further promotes the BCN inplane electron transfer.[12a]

The Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) images of the BCN precursor shown in Figure S1 imply the formation of BCN precursor nanosheets. In Figure 1c, the particle size of BCN-0.5Ru is smaller than that of the synthesized tetragonal RuO2 (JCPDS no. 88–0322), according to XRD analysis. Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) images and particle size distribution diagrams of BCN-xRu are shown in Figures 1d, 1e, and S2. They suggest that the Ru nanoclusters supported on the BCN support had small particle sizes and a narrow particle size distribution range. The particles with d-spacing of 2.06 Å, 2.14 Å, and 2.34 Å are consistent with the hcp Ru (101), (100), and (002) planes, respectively. (Figure S2). In Figure S3, RuO2 without the BCN support has seriously aggregated, forming large particles. The particle sizes of BCN-xRu (*x*=0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0) were significantly smaller than those of RuO2. These results suggest that the BCN support helped disperse the Ru metal nanoclusters more homogeneously than what occurred when the RuO2 catalyst was prepared without any BCN support.

To confirm the successful doping of B in the BCN, solidstate 11B nuclear magnetic resonance ( 11B NMR) analysis was performed. As shown in Figure 1f, the chemical shifts of 9.967 ppm and 7.7 ppm represent the corner B sites and bay B sites in BCN-0.5Ru, respectively.[13] The 13C NMR spectrum of BCN-0.5Ru (Figure 1g) further confirms the structure of the triazine ring, as evidenced by a chemical shift of 153 ppm.[14] Two characteristic peaks are located at 1349 and 1601 cm <sup>1</sup> in the Raman spectrum of BCN-xRu (*x*=0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0), as shown in Figure S4. These two peaks can be attributed to the D band and the G band, indicating the existence of amorphous carbon and graphitized carbon.[15] The BCN-0.5Ru showed the smallest Raman ID/IG ratio, indicating that it has the lowest number of defects and the highest degree of crystallinity. This result is consistent with the XRD results. The higher-order Raman spectrum appeared after doping with B and N.[16] The bands located at 2622 and 2893 cm <sup>1</sup> correspond to the secondorder Raman spectra, which can be attributed to the characteristics of the 2D band and the D+G band, respectively.[16] The D+G band cannot be observed for g-C3N4 but was detected after B doping.[15–16] The Raman results confirm the formation of BCN nanosheets.[15,17]

As shown in the Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra (Figure S5), the broad peak observed at 3413 cm <sup>1</sup> corresponds to the stretching vibration of N H. The peaks at 1634 and 1193 cm <sup>1</sup> can be assigned to the stretching vibrations of C N and C N, respectively. The successful

*Figure 1.* (a) Schematic diagram of the synthetic route of BCN-0.5Ru, (b) XRD patterns of BCN-0.3Ru, BCN-0.5Ru, BCN-0.7Ru, and BCN-1.0Ru, (c) XRD patterns of BCN-0.5Ru and RuO2, (d) TEM and (e) size distributions of BCN-0.5Ru, (f) 11B NMR and (g) 13C NMR of BCN-0.5Ru.

doping of B can be identified by the peaks at 1441 and 774 cm <sup>1</sup> , which correspond to B N stretching and B N bending vibrations, respectively. Considering the above experimental results and the elemental composition of BCN-0.5Ru (N/C/B ratio 54.38: 39.26:3.72) obtained from XPS analysis, the possible chemical structure of the BCN material is shown in Figure S6. In Figure S7, the low contents of Ru in BCN-xRu (*x*=0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 1.0) were 4.84, 6.01, 6.82, and 8.55 wt%, respectively, as determined by inductively coupled plasma emission (ICP) spectroscopy.

The surface electronic states of BCN-0.3Ru, BCN-0.5Ru, BCN-0.7Ru, and BCN-1.0Ru are illustrated by the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra in Figure 2. The B 1s spectra of BCN-0.3Ru, BCN-0.5Ru, BCN-0.7Ru, and BCN-1.0Ru can be deconvoluted into two peaks located at 191.5 eV and 192.5 eV, respectively. These two peaks can be assigned to the N2BH bonds (bay B) and B (N)3 bonds (corner B), respectively.[13,18] These results indicate the formation of B N C.

The electronegativity of N (3.0) is higher than that of B (2.0). As a result, N can easily attract electrons in the presence of B, leading to a relatively negative valence state. The N 1s peaks (shown in Figure 2b) are divided into three separate parts, which concentrated at 398.6, 399.5, and 400.5 eV, respectively. These peaks can be attributed to pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N, respectively.[19] As 15213757, 2023, 38, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308704 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 2.* XPS spectra. (a) B 1s spectra, (b) N 1s spectra, (c) Ru 3p spectra (1: BCN-0.3Ru, 2: BCN-0.5Ru, 3: BCN-0.7Ru, 4: BCN-1.0Ru), (d) the content of pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N over the N 1s spectra, (e) the content of Ru0 and Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> over the Ru 3p spectra.

the Ru content increased, the pyridinic N content fluctuated slightly, first increasing and then decreasing (Figure 2d). When BCN precursor and Ru precursor are thermally polymerized, the lone pair electrons on N in the tri-striazine-based Melon structure in BCN intermediate will strongly coordinate with the Ru d orbitats, resulting in Ru N bonds.[8–9] The addition of Ru may have an impact on the further thermal polymerization of BCN intermediates. Therefore, varying the amount of Ru ions can affect the subsequent thermal polymerization of BCN intermediates, thereby leading to different ratios of pyridinic N. BCN-0.5Ru displayed the highest pyridinic N content, at 0.4172. The binding energy of pyridinic N is lower than that of pyrrolic N and graphitic N, so pyridinic N had more electrons and active sites to anchor Ru. As a result, the pyridinic N was very capable of stabilizing Ru on the BCN support, due to the strong interaction between the lone-pair electrons of pyridinic N and the d-orbitals of Ru.[8–,9b] Thus, BCN-0.5Ru was more likely to show the best catalytic activity and highest stability among the BCN Ru series. As shown in Figure 2c, the peaks of Ru 3p at 461.0 and 462.9 eV correspond to Ru<sup>0</sup> 3p3*<sup>=</sup>*<sup>2</sup> and Ru4<sup>+</sup> 3p3*=*2, respectively.[20] The trend in Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> content presented in Figure 2e is similar to that of pyridinic N in Figure 2d: it increases first and then decreases. It can be inferred that the pyridinic N may coordinate with Ru ions at the hybrid interface, and partial electron migration may occur between pyridinic N and Ru. BCN-0.5Ru displayed a maximum Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> 15213757, 2023, 38, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308704 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

1521373, 2023, 3.8. Downloaded from https://onlinelbray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308704 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque C

**Angewandte** 

ratio of 0.6107, suggesting it had more pyridinic N-Ru coordination than the other catalysts. The XPS spectrum of RuO<sub>2</sub> is shown in Figure S8. The two peaks at 463.5 and 465.7 eV can be assigned to Ru<sup>4+</sup> and Ru<sup>5+</sup>, respectively. Compared to RuO2, BCN-0.5Ru had a lower binding energy without high valence state Ru<sup>5+</sup>, as the strong interaction between Ru and pyridinic N helped Ru maintain a lower valence state. This may be attributed to the charge compensation from pyridinic N in BCN to Ru, which prevents Ru oxidation.

Figure 3 shows the electrochemical performance of BCN-xRu catalysts in an O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution, which was conducted on a glassy carbon electrode with a disk diameter of 5 mm. In Figure 3a, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curve indicates that the OER performance of BCN-0.5Ru was better than that of the other BCNxRu analogues, as well as RuO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 3c). The overpotential of BCN-0.5Ru was 164 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>geo</sub>, compared to 174 mV for BCN-0.3Ru, 193 mV for BCN-0.7Ru, and 223 mV for BCN-1.0Ru (Fig-

Figure 3. Electrochemical performances. (a) OER LSV curves of BCN-0.3Ru, BCN-0.5Ru, BCN-0.7Ru, and BCN-1.0Ru in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>. (b) Tafel plots for BCN-0.3Ru, BCN-0.5Ru, BCN-0.7Ru, and BCN-1.0Ru, (c) OER LSV curves of BCN, BCN-0.5Ru and RuO<sub>2</sub>, (d) electrochemical impedance spectra of RuO<sub>2</sub> and BCN-0.5Ru from 100 kHz to 0.1 Hz (Rs: solution resistance,  $R_{ci}$ : charge transfer resistance, CPE: constant phase element), (e) comparison of the overpotential of BCN-0.5Ru for various reported Ru/Ir-based electrocatalysts<sup>[3b,22]</sup> at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>geo</sub> current density in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4$  (Table S1), (f) chronopotentiometry tests of BCN-0.5Ru and  $RuO_2$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> geo current density in  $O_2$ -saturated 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>.

*Angewandte*

*Chemie*

*Forschungsartikel*

ure S9). In Figure 3b, it can be observed that as the Ru content increases, the Tafel slope first decreases and then increases. The BCN-0.5Ru exhibits the lowest Tafel slope of 49.3 mVdec <sup>1</sup> . A smaller Tafel slope indicates that a higher current density can be produced with a small overpotential, which implies good electrocatalytic kinetics. The Tafel slope can provide valuable insights into the reaction mechanism of the rate-limiting step, which is potentially beneficial for understanding the fundamental interaction between the electrocatalyst and reactant. In a consecutive reaction, a small Tafel slope suggests that the rate-determining step is at the end of the multiple-electron transfer reaction, which can be regarded as a sign of a good electrocatalyst. Generally, the OER mechanism under acidic conditions involves the four proton–electron transfer pathways, which are presented in equations (1–4)[1a,2c,21] below.

$$M + H_2O \rightarrow MOH + H^+ + e^- \tag{1}$$

$$MOH + OH^{-} \rightarrow MO + H_{2}O + e^{-}$$
 (2)

$$MO + H_2O \rightarrow MOOH + H^+ + e^-$$
 (3)

$$MOOH + H_2O \rightarrow M + H^+ + e^-$$
 (4)

According to previous reports, if the second electron transfer reaction (Eq. 2) is the rate-limiting step, the theoretical Tafel slope for this reaction is about 60 mVdec <sup>1</sup> . [21a] If the third step of the reaction (step 3) is the rate-limiting step, its Tafel slope is approximately 30 mVdec <sup>1</sup> . As presented in Figure 3b, the Tafel slope of BCN-0.5Ru is 49.3 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , which falls within the range of 30 to 60 mVdec <sup>1</sup> . Therefore, the rate-limiting step in an acidic OER system may be either the second or third reaction step[21a].We will further explore the OER mechanism in the DFT discussion.

To evaluate the significance of the BCN support, the catalytic activity of RuO2 with and without support were compared. As shown in Figure 3c, the overpotential of BCN-0.5Ru (164 mV) was less than 262 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> geo of RuO2, which suggests that BCN-0.5Ru was more active than RuO2 for the OER. The bare BCN exhibits a poor OER activity. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) revealed that BCN-0.5Ru had a lower resistance than RuO2 (Figure 3d). The equivalent circuit was shown in Figure 3d.[23] The solution resistances of BCN-0.5Ru and RuO2 were approximately about 6.0 ohms. The charge transfer resistance of BCN-0.5Ru was 116.8 ohms, which is lower than194.7 ohms for RuO2. The lower charge transfer resistance of BCN-0.5Ru reveals that the BCN support accelerated the charge transfer process, possibly due to the strong interaction between the Ru and the BCN support. The overpotential of BCN-0.5Ru was lower than that of other recently published OER electrocatalysts, as shown in Figure 3e and Table S1,[3b,22a–c,e-g,i-q] demonstrating its remarkable electrochemical activity.

The stability of the catalysts was evaluated through chronopotentiometry testing at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> geo. In Figure 3f, RuO2 lost its OER activity after about 1 h at a geometrical current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> geo. The durability of BCN-0.5Ru with BCN support was dramatically improved, as shown in Figure 3f. Its overpotential rose slowly from 1.391 to 1.504 V at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> geo during 12 h of continuous testing. It has been widely accepted that the strong interaction between Ru and active N in BCN support can enhance the structural stability of catalysts.[7b] The higher the proportion of pyridinic N (indicated by XPS results) in a BCN-xRu catalyst, the greater its catalytic activity and stability. The XRD pattern of BCN-0.5Ru after OER reaction shows that the XRD peak position of Ru remains unchanged (Figure S10). Our XPS analyses indicated that the Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> content in BCN-0.5Ru after 12 h of OER reaction was 0.6118 (Figure S11), almost unchanged from the initial content of 0.6107, which further confirmed the stability of Ru in BCN-0.5Ru. This can probably be attributed to the activated N in the BCN support, which compensates the charges to Ru and prevent its oxidation. Moreover, the TEM image of BCN-0.5Ru after OER reaction shows that the Ru clusters have a dspacing of 2.14 Å, which corresponds to the hcp Ru (002) plane (Figure S12a). This suggests that the particles on BCN are still composed of the metallic Ru. It could be inferred that the active N in BCN can stabilize the metal Ru. Furthermore, the particle size distribution diagram of Ru on the BCN support indicates that the particle sizes ranges from 2 to 5 nm (Figure S12b), and the distribution is similar to that in initial BCN-0.5Ru. This could be attributed to the strong interaction between the Ru and the N on the BCN, which maintains good dispersity even after the OER reaction.

DFT calculations were performed to obtain further insights into the nature of the catalytic activity of BCN-0.5Ru and its OER mechanism. To model the catalysts' behavior toward the OER, we confined hcp Ru clusters on the BCN support surface structure. RuO2(110) is one of the most stable low-index facets of RuO2 nanocrystals for OER, so it was chosen as the comparison sample.[24] It is generally accepted that the adsorption energies of three intermediates during the OER process HO\*, O\*, and HOO\* remarkably influence the overpotential. According to Rossmeisl et al., the OER process includes charge–proton transfer, chemical bond cleavage/formation, and adsorption/desorption of a surface oxygen intermediate, as shown in equations (1–4).[25] The ΔG of every single proton–electron transfer step (equations 1–4) can be expressed by the following equations (5–8):[1a,25]

$$\Delta G_1 = \Delta G_{HO} * - \Delta G * + \frac{1}{2} G_{H_{2(g)}} - eU$$
 (5)

$$\Delta G_2 = \Delta G_O * - \Delta G_{HO} * + \frac{1}{2} G_{H_{2(g)}} - eU$$
 (6)

$$\Delta G_3 = \Delta G_{HOO} * - \Delta G_O * + \frac{1}{2} G_{H_{2(g)}} - eU$$
 (7)

$$\Delta G_4 = \Delta G_{O_2(g)} + \Delta G * - \Delta G_{HOO} * + \frac{1}{2} G_{H_{2(g)}} - eU$$
 (8)

15213757, 2023, 38, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308704 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte*

The largest ΔGmax in ΔG1–4 can be considered the ratelimiting step. The detailed optimized atomic configurations of oxygen intermediates (\*OH, \*O, \*OOH) adsorbed on the BCN-0.5Ru and RuO2(110) surface are presented in Figures 4a and Figure S12. The free energy diagrams of BCN-0.5Ru and RuO2(110) are provided in Figure 4b. \*OOH formation from \*O (\*O+H2O!\*OOH+H<sup>+</sup> +e ) presents the highest free energy gap. We thus can infer that this is the rate-limiting step in the OER, which is consistent with the Tafel slope results (Figure 3b). We also observe that the ΔG(\*OOH \*O) of BCN-0.5Ru (1.59 eV) is smaller than that of RuO2(110) (2.14 eV), suggesting the interaction between the BCN support and Ru reduced the reaction energy barrier. Based on the DFT calculations, this interaction significantly improved the reaction activity.

#### *Conclusion*

In conclusion, our prepared Ru nanoclusters immobilized on a highly stable BCN nanosheet support exhibited improved OER reaction activity and stability for water splitting in an acidic environment. The coordination of introduced B and active N sites in BCN provided strong interaction between Ru and N, facilitating the good dispersity of Ru and promoting catalyst stability. The EIS results indicated that the charge transfer of BCN-0.5Ru was better than that of

*Figure 4.* Density functional theory calculations for OER mechanism. (a) Schematic of the OER mechanism on BCN-0.5Ru catalyst in acidic electrolyte, (b) free energy diagram of OER processes of BCN-0.5Ru and RuO2(110).

RuO2 without any support, revealing that the BCN support accelerated charge transfer at the BCN-0.5Ru electrode interface. The BCN-0.5Ru also exhibited a small overpotential of 164 mV at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . In the chronopotentiometry durability test, the catalyst was able to operate continuously for over 12 h under acidic conditions, whereas RuO2 only lasted about 1 h. The DFT calculations demonstrated that the BCN support reduced the reaction energy barrier and changed the catalyst's surface adsorption capacity for intermediate products, which facilitated electrocatalytic activity. These findings offer a new perspective on the design and synthesis of supported electrocatalysts with low noble metal content for the acidic OER.

#### *Acknowledgements*

The authors gratefully acknowledge the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2021YFB4000200), the Foundation Research Project of Shenzhen (JCYJ20190809163611271), Shenzhen Fundamental Research Programs (JCYJ20200109141216566), and the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2022 A1515011917). The authors also would like to thank Li Xueming from Shiyanjia Lab (www.shiyanjia.com) for the NMR analysis.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** Boron Carbon Nitride **·** Catalyst **·** Oxygen Evolution Reaction **·** Ruthenium **·** Water Splitting

- [1] a) Z. Shi, X. Wang, J. Ge, C. Liu, W. Xing, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR02410D)* **2020**, *12*, [13249–13275](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR02410D); b) J. Kibsgaard, I. Chorkendorff, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0407-1)* **2019**, *4*, [430–433](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0407-1).
- [2] a) L. An, C. Wei, M. Lu, H. Liu, Y. Chen, G. G. Scherer, A. C. Fisher, P. Xi, Z. J. Xu, C.-H. Yan, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202006328)* **2021**, *33*, [2006328](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202006328); b) S. Hu, S. Ge, H. Liu, X. Kang, Q. Yu, B. Liu, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202201726) Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, [2201726](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202201726); c) Z. Lei, T. Wang, B. Zhao, W. Cai, Y. Liu, S. Jiao, Q. Li, R. Cao, M. Liu, *Adv. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202000478) Mater.* **2020**, *10*, [2000478;](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202000478) d) L. Li, P. Wang, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, [2004243](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202004243); e) H.-Y. Qu, X. He, Y. Wang, S. Hou, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.3390/app11104320) Sci.* **2021**, *11*, 4320; f) Y. Zhang, X. Zhu, G. Zhang, P. Shi, A.-L. Wang, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA11982B) Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [5890–5914](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA11982B).
- [3] a) S. Chen, H. Huang, P. Jiang, K. Yang, J. Diao, S. Gong, S. Liu, M. Huang, H. Wang, Q. Chen, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b04922)* **2020**, *10*, 1152– [1160](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b04922); b) J. Su, R. Ge, K. Jiang, Y. Dong, F. Hao, Z. Tian, G. Chen, L. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, [1801351;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201801351) c) X. Cui, P. Ren, C. Ma, J. Zhao, R. Chen, S. Chen, N. P. Rajan, H. Li, L.

- - Yu, Z. Tian, D. Deng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, [1908126;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201908126) d) S. Cherevko, S. Geiger, O. Kasian, N. Kulyk, J.-P. Grote, A. Savan, B. R. Shrestha, S. Merzlikin, B. Breitbach, A. Ludwig, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, *Catal. Today* **2016**, *262*, [170–180.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2015.08.014)
- [4] a) Y. Liu, X. Liang, H. Chen, R. Gao, L. Shi, L. Yang, X. Zou, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, [1054–1077;](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63722-6) b) M. Fan, X. Liang, H. Chen, X. Zou, *Dalton Trans.* **2020**, *49*, [15568–15573](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0DT02676J); c) T. W. van Deelen, C. Hernández Mejía, K. P. de Jong, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0364-x)* **2019**, *2*, [955–970](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0364-x); d) X.-F. Yang, A. Wang, B. Qiao, J. Li, J. Liu, T. Zhang, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, [1740–1748](https://doi.org/10.1021/ar300361m); e) A. Wang, J. Li, T. Zhang, *Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-018-0010-1) Rev.* **2018**, *2*, 65–81.
- [5] a) H.-S. Oh, H. N. Nong, T. Reier, A. Bergmann, M. Gliech, J. Ferreira de Araújo, E. Willinger, R. Schlögl, D. Teschner, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [12552–12563;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07199) b) R. Li, H. Wang, F. Hu, K. C. Chan, X. Liu, Z. Lu, J. Wang, Z. Li, L. Zeng, Y. Li, X. Wu, Y. Xiong, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3540.
- [6] a) Y. Tong, G. Xue, H. Wang, M. Liu, J. Wang, C. Hao, X. Zhang, D. Wang, X. Shi, W. Liu, G. Li, Z. Tang, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NR05801F)* **2018**, *10*, [16425–16430;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NR05801F) b) H. Frey, A. Beck, X. Huang, J. A. van Bokhoven, M. G. Willinger, *Science* **2022**, *376*, [982–987](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abm3371).
- [7] a) T. Bhowmik, M. K. Kundu, S. Barman, *ACS Appl. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b10436) Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, [28678–28688;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b10436) b) J. Chen, P. Cui, G. Zhao, K. Rui, M. Lao, Y. Chen, X. Zheng, Y. Jiang, H. Pan, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [12540–12544](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201907017); c) B. Jiang, T. Wang, Y. Cheng, F. Liao, K. Wu, M. Shao, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b11970) Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, [39161–39167](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b11970); d) C. Rong, X. Shen, Y. Wang, L. Thomsen, T. Zhao, Y. Li, X. Lu, R. Amal, C. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, [2110103;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202110103) e) Y. Chen, Q. Zhou, G. Zhao, Z. Yu, X. Wang, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, *Adv. [Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201705583) Mater.* **2018**, *28*, [1705583.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201705583)
- [8] X. Wang, W. Chen, L. Zhang, T. Yao, W. Liu, Y. Lin, H. Ju, J. Dong, L. Zheng, W. Yan, X. Zheng, Z. Li, X. Wang, J. Yang, D. He, Y. Wang, Z. Deng, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b01686) Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [9419–9422](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b01686).
- [9] a) W. Deng, T. Wu, Y. Wu, H. Zheng, G. Li, M. Yang, X. Zou, Y. Bai, Y. Yang, M. Jing, X. Wang, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA06351D) Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [20993–21003;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA06351D) b) X.-R. Wang, J.-Y. Liu, Z.-W. Liu, W.-C. Wang, J. Luo, X.-P. Han, X.-W. Du, S.-Z. Qiao, J. Yang, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201800005) Mater.* **2018**, *30*, [1800005.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201800005)
- [10] S. D. Nehate, A. K. Saikumar, A. Prakash, K. B. Sundaram, *Mater. Today* **2020**, *8*, [100106](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtadv.2020.100106).
- [11] S. Wang, G. Wang, T. Wu, Y. Zhang, F. Zhan, Y. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Fu, J. Qiu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, [14644–14650.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA04058C)
- [12] a) Y. Li, M. Gu, X. Zhang, J. Fan, K. Lv, S. A. C. Carabineiro, F. Dong, *Mater. Today* **2020**, *41*, [270–303](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mattod.2020.09.004); b) Y. Li, Z. Ren, Z. He, P. Ouyang, Y. Duan, W. Zhang, K. Lv, F. Dong, *Green Energy & Environ.* **2023**, *0*, 0, [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2023.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2023.02.012) [02.012.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2023.02.012)
- [13] W. Wang, H. Zhou, Y. Liu, S. Zhang, Y. Zhang, G. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, *Small* **2020**, *16*, [1906880](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201906880).
- [14] a) Q. Li, J. Jiang, B. Lin, D. Ding, H. Xu, P. Wang, Y. Chen, *Catal. Lett.* **2019**, *149*, [3296–3303;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10562-019-02897-2) b) W. Xing, F. Ma, Z. Li, A. Wang, M. Liu, J. Han, G. Wu, W. Tu, *J. Mater. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA04930A) A* **2022**, *10*, [18333–18342.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA04930A)
- [15] M. M. Hasan, G. E. Khedr, F. Zakaria, N. K. Allam, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.2c01349) Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2022**, *5*, [9692–9701](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.2c01349).
- [16] C. Y. Zhi, X. D. Bai, E. G. Wang, *Appl. [Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1479207) Lett.* **2002**, *80*, [3590–3592.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1479207)
- [17] R. Mighri, U. B. Demirci, J. G. Alauzun, *[Nanomaterials.](https://doi.org/10.3390/nano13040734)* **2023**, *13*, [734.](https://doi.org/10.3390/nano13040734)

- [18] B. Chang, L. Li, D. Shi, H. Jiang, Z. Ai, S. Wang, Y. Shao, J. Shen, Y. Wu, Y. Li, X. Hao, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *283*, [119622.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119622)
- [19] P. Giusto, H. Arazoe, D. Cruz, P. Lova, T. Heil, T. Aida, M. Antonietti, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [20883–20891.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c10945)
- [20] J. Tang, B. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, Q. Shen, J. Qin, S. Xue, X. Guo, C. Du, J. Chen, *J. Mater. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA08512C) A* **2022**, *10*, [4181–4190](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA08512C).
- [21] a) N.-T. Suen, S.-F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y.-J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, [337–365;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CS00328A) b) J. Gao, H. Tao, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, [2003786.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202003786)
- [22] a) L. Cao, Q. Luo, J. Chen, L. Wang, Y. Lin, H. Wang, X. Liu, X. Shen, W. Zhang, W. Liu, Z. Qi, Z. Jiang, J. Yang, T. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4849; b) D. Chen, T. Liu, P. Wang, J. Zhao, C. Zhang, R. Cheng, W. Li, P. Ji, Z. Pu, S. Mu, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.0c01384) Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, [2909–2915;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.0c01384) c) Q. Feng, Q. Wang, Z. Zhang, Y. Xiong, H. Li, Y. Yao, X.-Z. Yuan, M. C. Williams, M. Gu, H. Chen, H. Li, H. Wang, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.11.071) B* **2019**, *244*, [494–501](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.11.071); d) J. Gao, C.-Q. Xu, S.-F. Hung, W. Liu, W. Cai, Z. Zeng, C. Jia, H. M. Chen, H. Xiao, J. Li, Y. Huang, B. Liu, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b11456) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [3014–3023](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b11456); e) R. Ge, L. Li, J. Su, Y. Lin, Z. Tian, L. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, [1901313;](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201901313) f) J. He, X. Zhou, P. Xu, J. Sun, *Adv. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102883) Mater.* **2021**, *11*, [2102883](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202102883); g) L. Li, L. Bu, B. Huang, P. Wang, C. Shen, S. Bai, T.-S. Chan, Q. Shao, Z. Hu, X. Huang, *Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202105308)* **2021**, *33*, [2105308](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202105308); h) J. Lim, D. Park, S. S. Jeon, C.-W. Roh, J. Choi, D. Yoon, M. Park, H. Jung, H. Lee, *Adv. Funct. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201704796)* **2018**, *28*, [1704796](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201704796); i) Y. Lin, Z. Tian, L. Zhang, J. Ma, Z. Jiang, B. J. Deibert, R. Ge, L. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 162; j) Y. Pi, Q. Shao, P. Wang, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Adv. Funct. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201700886)* **2017**, *27*, [1700886;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201700886) k) C. Seitz Linsey, F. Dickens Colin, K. Nishio, Y. Hikita, J. Montoya, A. Doyle, C. Kirk, A. Vojvodic, Y. Hwang Harold, K. Norskov Jens, F. Jaramillo Thomas, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaf5050)* **2016**, *353*, [1011–1014;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaf5050) l) J. Wang, L. Han, B. Huang, Q. Shao, H. L. Xin, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5692; m) L. Yang, G. Yu, X. Ai, W. Yan, H. Duan, W. Chen, X. Li, T. Wang, C. Zhang, X. Huang, J.-S. Chen, X. Zou, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 5236; n) Q. Yao, B. Huang, N. Zhang, M. Sun, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [13983–13988;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908092) o) Z. L. Zhao, Q. Wang, X. Huang, Q. Feng, S. Gu, Z. Zhang, H. Xu, L. Zeng, M. Gu, H. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE01960G) Sci.* **2020**, *13*, [5143–5151](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE01960G); p) J. Zhu, Y. Guo, F. Liu, H. Xu, L. Gong, W. Shi, D. Chen, P. Wang, Y. Yang, C. Zhang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202101539) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *133*, [12436–12442](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202101539); q) Z. Zhuang, Y. Wang, C.-Q. Xu, S. Liu, C. Chen, Q. Peng, Z. Zhuang, H. Xiao, Y. Pan, S. Lu, R. Yu, W.-C. Cheong, X. Cao, K. Wu, K. Sun, Y. Wang, D. Wang, J. Li, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4875.
- [23] I. Vincent, E.-C. Lee, H.-M. Kim, *Sci. Rep.* **2021**, *11*, 293.
- [24] a) Q. Liang, A. Bieberle-Hütter, G. Brocks, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c08700) C* **2022**, *126*, [1337–1345;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.1c08700) b) K. A. Stoerzinger, L. Qiao, M. D. Biegalski, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz500610u) Lett.* **2014**, *5*, 1636– [1641](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz500610u).
- [25] I. C. Man, H.-Y. Su, F. Calle-Vallejo, H. A. Hansen, J. I. Martínez, N. G. Inoglu, J. Kitchin, T. F. Jaramillo, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, *[ChemCatChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201000397)* **2011**, *3*, 1159–1165.

Manuscript received: June 20, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: July 25, 2023 Version of record online: August 10, 2023

15213757, 2023, 38, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308704 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License