---
source: Bai 等 - 2023 - A p‐n  WO3   span style=font-variantsma.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 59.635s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:10:23.621511Z
---

Check for updates

Oxygen Evolution Reaction

# A p-n WO<sub>3</sub>/SnSe<sub>2</sub> Heterojunction for Efficient Photoassisted Electrocatalysis of the Oxygen Evolution Reaction

Ling Bai, Shijie Jia, Yidan Gao, Chuan Li, Xin Chen, Shuang Zhou, Junwen Han, Fengchun Yang, Xin Zhang\*, and Siyu Lu\*

Water splitting is important to the conversion and storage of renewable energy, but slow kinetics of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) greatly limits its utility. Here, under visible light illumination, the p-n WO<sub>3</sub>/SnSe<sub>2</sub> (WS) heterojunction significantly activates OER catalysis of CoFe-layered double hydroxide (CF)/carbon nanotubes (CNTs). Specifically, the catalyst achieves an overpotential of 224 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a small Tafel slope of 47 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, superior to RuO<sub>2</sub> and most previously reported transition metal-based OER catalysts. The p-n WS heterojunction shows strong light absorption to produce photogenerated carriers. The photogenerated holes are trapped by CF to suppresses the charge recombination and facilitate charge transfer, which accelerates OER kinetics and boost the activity for the OER. This work highlights the possibility of using heterojunctions to activate OER catalysis and advances the design of energy-efficient catalysts for water oxidation systems using solar energy.

#### 1. Introduction

Electrocatalytic and solar water splitting are promising pathways for the sustainable and renewable generation of hydrogen and oxygen. [1-3] However, splitting water usually suffers from significant inefficiency and high overpotential due to the slow kinetics of the oxidative half reaction (oxygen evolution reaction (OER)). [4,5] Therefore, a highly efficient electrocatalyst must accelerate the OER and reduce its overpotential. [6,7] Transition metal-based catalysts are important candidate materials due to their high potential for OER catalysis and high stability under alkaline conditions; they are also environmentally benign. [8,9] In many researches, 3d transition metal (Ni, Co, and Fe) hydr(oxy)oxides are most promising to promote OER in alkaline media and serve as the catalytically active centers. Their double metal hydroxides exhibit more excellent OER performance, which originates from the synergy

Dr. L. Bai, Dr. S. Jia, Dr. Y. Gao, Dr. C. Li, Dr. X. Chen, Dr. S. Zhou, Prof. F. Yang, Prof. X. Zhang

College of Chemistry and Material Science, Northwest University, Xi'an 710127, China

Dr. L. Bai, Dr. J. Han

Jinchuan Group Co., Ltd, Jinchang 737100, China

Prof. S. Lu

Green Catalysis Center, College of Chemistry, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China

E-mail: sylu2013@zzu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/eem2.12456.

DOI: 10.1002/eem2.12456

between the bimetals. [10–15] Thus, developing a facile and effective approach to provoke and achieve better OER performance of these promising bimetallic hydr(oxy)oxides is of great interests.

Solar energy is an abundant and clean energy source and is widely used to power chemical synthesis and catalysis in various promising technologies for light energy utilization and conversion. [ $^{16-19}$ ] Semiconductors such as Si, TiO<sub>2</sub>, ZnO, Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, and WO<sub>3</sub> with excellent optical properties have been developed for the absorption and utilization of solar energy. [ $^{20-24}$ ] WO<sub>3</sub> is an n-type semiconductor with a suitable bandgap of 2.7 eV. [ $^{25}$ ] It exhibits better sunlight absorption and superior electron transport ( $\sim$  12 cm<sup>2</sup>/V s) than TiO<sub>2</sub> ( $\sim$  0.3 cm<sup>2</sup>/V s), has a longer hole diffusion length than Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, and has higher resistance to photocorro-

sion in aqueous solution than Si or Ta<sub>3</sub>N<sub>5</sub>. <sup>[26]</sup> Therefore, it is particularly promising in photoelectrochemistry. <sup>[27]</sup> However, pristine WO<sub>3</sub> suffers from several shortcomings, including low solar spectrum absorption (about 12%), slow charge transfer at the WO<sub>3</sub>/electrolyte interface, sluggish water oxidation kinetics, and high electron–hole recombination, which greatly limit its photoelectrochemical performance. <sup>[28]</sup> To address this, heterojunctions constructed between WO<sub>3</sub> and a small bandgap semiconductor can effectively promote charge separation and transfer. <sup>[29]</sup> To our knowledge, SnSe<sub>2</sub> is a semiconductor with a small bandgap (1.6 eV) and has a more negative conduction band edge than WO<sub>3</sub>. <sup>[30,31]</sup> Therefore, n-p WO<sub>3</sub>/SnSe<sub>2</sub> (WS) heterojunction can be constructed to develop the absorption and utilization of solar energy.

Here, n-p WO<sub>3</sub>/SnSe<sub>2</sub> (WS) heterojunction was synthesized and hybridized to CoFe-layered double hydroxide (CoFe-LDH, CF) to perform photo-assisted electrocatalytic OER. The coupling carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and CoFe-LDH can be used as co-catalysts for OER process due to their strong electronegativity and high DOS of d-band electrons, respectively, which can improve charge separation of WS heterojunction and facilitate the charge transfer.<sup>[32–35]</sup> Thus the photogenerated holes of heterojunction can rapidly diffuse into CF and boost the OER performance. Under light illumination, the CF/WS/CNTs exhibit excellent photo-assisted electrocatalytic OER performance in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte. The CF/WS/CNTs require only a 224 mV overpotential to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Its Tafel slope of 47 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> is superior to that obtained using RuO<sub>2</sub>. In addition, the turnover frequency (TOF) and mass activity of CF/WS/CNTs are 42 and 5 times higher than those of RuO<sub>2</sub>, respectively. The excellent

catalytic activity of CF/WS/CNTs is due to the synergy among WS, CF, and CNTs. The method of increasing catalytic activity using a WS heterojunction is applicable to other efficient electrocatalysts, indicating the generality of the photo-assisted electrocatalytic OER strategy. This method for constructing p-n heterojunction as excellent photo-assisted electrocatalysts opens new possibilities for the further development of transition metals and semiconductors in the field of renewable energy.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The material was generated as illustrated in **Figure 1**a. CoFe-LDH (CF) was prepared by liquid reduction using NaBH<sub>4</sub> as a reducing agent; then the CNTs were added to obtain CoFe-LDH/CNTs (CF/CNTs) following by ultrasonication. At the same time, the composite of WO<sub>3</sub> and SnSe<sub>2</sub> (WS) synthesized by a modified hydrothermal method was incorporated into the CF and CNTs to fabricate CF/WS/CNTs. The general morphology, size, structure, and composition of these samples were determined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Figure S1a-c, Supporting Information, show the as-prepared CF, CF/CNTs, and CF/WS/CNTs, respectively. Images of WO<sub>3</sub> and SnSe<sub>2</sub> are shown in Figure S2a,b, Supporting Information, respectively.

Transmission electron microscopy was used to further characterize the as-prepared materials. As shown in Figure 1b, CF formed graphite-like nanosheets. Figure 1c shows that these nanosheets partially entangled with the CNTs homogeneously, consistent with the SEM results

SnCl, Hydrothermal Hydrothermal Calcination Na,WO, SeO, 180°C, 16h 140°C, 3h 450°C, 1h SnSe, CF/CNTs Ultrasonic Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> NaBH<sub>4</sub> FeSO<sub>4</sub> Stirring, 30min 80°C, 24h CNTs CF/WS/CNTs CF 50 nm 50 nm 50 nm Fe Sn 50 nm 50 nm 50 nm

**Figure 1.** a) Procedure for synthesizing CF/WS/CNTs. TEM images of b) CF and c) CF/CNTs, d) TEM and HRTEM images of CF/WS/CNTs. e) HAADF-STEM patterns of CF/WS/CNTs and corresponding EDS mapping for f) Co, g) Fe, h) Sn, i) C, j) O, k) W, and l) Se.

shown in Figure S1b, Supporting Information, indicating good interaction between CF and the CNTs. The morphologies of  $WO_3$  nanosheets and  $SnSe_2$  nanoplates are clearly observed in Figure S3, Supporting Information. Figure 1d shows a TEM image of CF/WS/CNTs with the lattice structure of each component. Figure 1e–l show the corresponding uniform distribution of the elements in CF/WS/CNTs as determined by high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and EDS mapping. From these TEM results, CF, WS, and CNTs are evenly distributed, suggesting these components readily interact and form an active interface.

Characterization of the crystallographic structures of the synthesized materials was by XRD (Figure 2a) and HRTEM (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The XRD pattern of CF shows diffraction peaks at 12.08°, 22.8°, and 33.9°, attributed to the characteristic crystal faces of (003), (006), and (009) of CF.[36] A crystalline lattice spacing of 0.26 nm is observed in Figure S4a, Supporting Information, corresponding to the (012) crystal plane of CF. [37] The addition of CNTs resulted in an additional diffraction peak at 26.4°, corresponding to the (002) crystal plane of CNTs (PDF#41-1487). Diffraction peaks due to SnSe2 (PDF#23-0602) and WO<sub>3</sub> (PDF#20-1323) were observed in the CF/ WS/CNTs data. The strong SnSe<sub>2</sub> diffraction peaks at 30.9°, 40.3°, and 47.9° respectively correspond to the (101), (102), and (110) crystal planes of the hexagonal crystal, and the crystalline lattice spacing of 0.29 nm corresponds to the preferential (101) crystal faces of SnSe<sub>2</sub> (Figure S4b, Supporting Information). [38] The diffraction peaks of WO<sub>3</sub> at 23.5°, 23.9°, and 24.7° respectively correspond to the (001),

(020), and (200) crystal planes and are associated with the crystalline lattice spacing of 0.25 nm for the (202) crystal faces, as shown in Figure \$4c, Supporting Information. [39]

The peaks in the Raman spectra shown in Figure 2b at 268, 321, 717, and 813 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be assigned to O-W-O bending vibrations and stretching vibrations of WO<sub>3</sub>, [40] and the peak at 185 cm<sup>-1</sup> is attributed to the 1 T phase of SnSe2, consistent with the hexagonal crystal structure indicated by the XRD results.<sup>[36,41]</sup> The characteristic carbon peaks were displayed at 1330 and 1580 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which could be assigned to the D and G bands of carbon, respectively.[42] The D band corresponded to the defects or structurally disordered carbon and the G band was associated with the ordered sp<sup>2</sup> bonded carbon, indicating the degree of the graphitic phase.<sup>[43]</sup> The I<sub>D</sub>/I<sub>G</sub> intensity ratios for the CNTs and CF/ CNTs were calculated as 1.31 and 1.40, respectively, indicating that the CF hybridization resulted in more structural defects in the CNTs and changes the electronic structure of the CNTs. CF/WS/CNTs contained a comparable level of defects ( $I_D/I_G = 1.39$ ), suggesting that the addition of WS does not introduce new defects or strong interactions with the other components but rather allows the absorption and utilization of light for the photoelectric

The energy band structure and photoelectric properties of WS were intensively studied. The

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns of the catalysts. b) Raman spectra of the catalysts. c) Mott–Schottky plots of WS, SnSe<sub>2</sub>, and WO<sub>3</sub> at an AC frequency of 10 Hz in the dark. d) UV–vis absorption spectra of the catalysts. e) Photoluminescence spectra of the catalysts. f) Transient photocurrent density versus time of the catalysts under pulsed light irradiation at 1.23 V versus RHE.

Mott-Schottky curves of WO3 and SnSe2 were measured in 0.1 M KCl electrolyte to determine the properties of the p-n heterojunction. Figure 2c shows a positive slope for  $WO_3$  (n-type) and a negative slope for SnSe2 (p-type). The V-shape of WS indicates the formation of p-n junctions between WO<sub>3</sub> and SnSe<sub>2</sub>. [44] In addition, the XRD diffraction, HRTEM and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results support the presence of WS heterojunctions (Figure S5, Supporting Information). UV-vis spectroscopy was used to measure the absorption and utilization of light by these materials. As shown in Figure 2d, WO<sub>3</sub> displays a wide absorption edge at around 450 nm with a large bandgap of 2.60 eV (Figure S6a, Supporting Information). In contrast, the WS extends the absorption range up to 480 nm, and the bandgap decreases to 2.33 eV. This enhanced visible light absorption of WS mainly originates from SnSe2, which has a small bandgap of 1.68 eV (Figure S6b, Supporting Information). This facilitates transfer of the generated holes from WO<sub>3</sub> to SnSe<sub>2</sub> and increases the utilization of visible light. The absorption range of CF/WS/CNTs is about 480 nm, the same as WS, with a bandgap of 2.33 eV, which indicates that the incorporation of CF and CNTs did not significantly alter the absorption of WS. This result, combined with the poor light absorption of CF/CNTs, shows that CF/CNTs do not affect light absorbance.

The photoluminescence (PL) emission spectrum of  $WO_3$  (Figure 2e) shows a strong emission peak at 521 nm, indicating rapid recombination of photogenerated carriers, whereas that of WS shows

lower PL intensity, implying more efficient charge separation. [45] More importantly, Figure S6c, Supporting Information, shows that the PL intensity of CF/WS, WS/CNTs, and CF/WS/CNTs decreases in that order, indicating that the recombination of photogenerated electrons and holes is effectively slowed by the addition of CNTs and CF.<sup>[46]</sup> Thus, CNTs and CF can effectively promote the separation of photogenerated charges, although they do not aid light absorption, as suggested by the UV-vis absorption results. From the Mott-Schottky curves (Figure 2c), the flat band potentials (EFB) of WO<sub>3</sub> and SnSe<sub>2</sub> are 0.42 and 1.45 V versus RHE, respectively. The conduction band (CB) potentials of n-type semiconductors are more negative than their EFB by 0.1 V, while the valence band (VB) potentials of p-type semiconductors are more positive than their EFB by 0.1 V. [47,48] Therefore, the CB potential of WO<sub>3</sub> is 0.32 V versus RHE, and VB potential of SnSe<sub>2</sub> is 1.55 V versus RHE, respectively. The corresponding VB potentials of WO<sub>3</sub> is 2.92 V versus RHE, and CB potentials of  $SnSe_2$  is -0.13 V versus RHE, which are calculated based on Eg according to the following formula: Eg = EVB-ECB. Their energy band structures are illustrated in Figure S6d, Supporting Information. When sunlight irradiates on the surface of WS, SnSe2 is excited to generate photoinduced electrons and holes. Since SnSe2 is in close contact with WO3 and WO3 has a higher energy level, photoinduced electrons in the CB of SnSe2 migrate to WO<sub>3</sub> and the holes transfer to the SnSe<sub>2</sub>, which can migrate to the surface of CF, promoting photogenerated charge separation, and lowering their recombination. [49,50]

As shown in Figure 2f, CF/WS/CNTs display a typical and reproducible on—off photocurrent response (53  $\mu$ A cm $^{-2}$ ), which is much higher than that of CF (8  $\mu$ A cm $^{-2}$ ), CF/CNTs (12  $\mu$ A cm $^{-2}$ ) and WS (22  $\mu$ A cm $^{-2}$ ) under light irradiation, indicating a significantly improved photoelectric response of the catalyst. The on—off response for CF/WS/CNTs, CF/CNTs, CNTs, and WS decreased slightly with the increase of on—off time, by 5%, 8%, 12%, and 18% respectively. Figure S7, Supporting Information, shows the surface redox behavior of CF/WS/CNTs. There are no other peaks except water redox, and the reaction under illumination exhibit much higher electrochemical activity.

Figure 3a and Figure S8, Supporting Information, show the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of the catalysts in O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH electrolyte at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. For comparison, an electrode modified with the same amount of commercial RuO2 was tested. CF shows excellent OER performance, with an overpotential of 329 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Compared with that, CF/CNTs required a reduced overpotential of 297 mV to achieve the same current density, similar to commercial RuO2. This enhanced activity of CF/CNTs originates the strong electronic coupling interaction between CNTs and CF. In Figure S8, Supporting Information, WS and WO<sub>3</sub> both show extremely poor OER performances with and without illumination, which are due to their inefficient electron transfer and charge separation. The addition of WS did not improve CF/WS/CNTs' electrocatalytic OER activity at an overpotential of 291 mV, indicating that the addition of WS heterojunctions does not immediately improve electrocatalysis capability. This lack of improvement is likely because the number of active sites in CF/WS/CNTs is not increased compared with CF/CNTs, consistent with the unchanged defects observed in the Raman results (Figure 2b). However, the CF/WS/CNTs exhibit significantly enhanced activity upon illumination, as evidenced by a remarkably lower overpotential of 224 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> along with a much lower onset potential and higher current increase rate (Figure 3a). In contrast, there are no corresponding improvements in CF or CF/CNTs. This compelling result demonstrates

<span id="page-3-0"></span>that the strong photoelectrochemical effect of WS p-n heterojunction can considerably promote OER activity upon illumination demonstrating. Furthermore, the activity of physically mixed CF/WS/CNTs exhibits inferior OER activity compared with that for the CF/WS/CNTs sample with or without illumination (Figure S8, Supporting Information). It suggests that WS increases OER performance, but the superior performance of CF/WS/CNTs still depends on the well-formed and strong coupling interfaces, which greatly promote the electron transfer and dissociation of water molecules.

The Tafel slope was further analyzed to explore the effect of light irradiation on the kinetics of the OER. As shown in Figure 3b, the Tafel slopes of CF and CF/CNTs are 126 and 116 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, indicating that the kinetics of the OER is slightly accelerated after the addition of CNTs. Illumination does not influence the Tafel slope of CF and CF/CNTs, consistent with the polarization curves. However, the CF/ WS/CNTs exhibit a Tafel slope of  $78~\text{mV}~\text{dec}^{-1}$  in the dark and 47 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> under illumination, clearly indicating that p-n WS heterojunctions significantly promote the OER kinetics of CF/WS/CNTs. It is notable that the Tafel slope of CF/WS/CNTs is lower than that of RuO2 (84 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). Table S1, Supporting Information, lists recently reported OER catalysts. CF/WS/CNTs perform better than most other catalysts designed for photo-assisted/induced electrocatalytic OER. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) further explores the charge transport behavior in the OER process of the catalysts synthesized here (Figure 3c). The equivalent circuit for impedance spectra is used to obtain the values of the ionic and charge transfer resistances of the OER (inset of Figure 3c), and the fitting results of the Nyquist plots have been listed in Table S2, Supporting Information. R<sub>s</sub> represents the series of resistance including electrolyte and the instruments. R<sub>sc</sub> represents the bulk transfer impedance of the sample, and R<sub>ct</sub> represents the transfer impedance at the sample/electrolyte interface. C<sub>sc</sub> and C<sub>ct</sub> represent the chemical capacitance of catalyst and catalyst/electrolyte interface, respectively. [51] When WS is excited by illumination to generate electrons and holes, the photogenerated holes are transferred to CF, which promotes the flow of carriers and inhibits the recombination of carriers, thus dramatically reducing the interface resistance of the catalyst.

The turnover frequency (TOF) of the catalysts is shown in Figure 3d. At a rather small overpotential of 300 mV, the TOF of CF/WS/CNTs increased from 0.68 to 2.94 s $^{-1}$  by photoactivation of the p-n WS heterojunctions under light irradiation, which is 42 and 7.7 times higher than that of  $\rm RuO_2$  and CF/CNTs, respectively. Enhanced mass activity upon illumination was confirmed (Figure S9, Supporting Information). Taken together, the results suggest that the addition of WS heterojunctions significantly enhances the catalytic activity of CF/WS/CNTs, allowing more efficient OER at a lower onset potential. Under illumination, the WS not only accelerates dynamics but also lowers the thermodynamic reaction overpotential.

We investigated the effect of WS content on photo-assisted electrocatalytic activity. The performance of CF/WS/CNTs containing different amounts (17, 33, 50, 66, and 83 wt%) of WS is shown in Figure 3e, f. With increasing WS, all the catalysts show decreased electrocatalytic OER performance without illumination, probably due to low conductivity and decreased interfacial electron transfer. However, under illumination, the activities of all the catalysts improved to varying degrees, with CF/WS/CNTs (33%) showing excellent photo-assisted electrocatalytic OER performance. Therefore, the addition of 33% WS supports the most efficient photo-assisted electrocatalytic OER.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was conducted to investigate the catalytic mechanism of the synthesized catalysts. The elemental

**Figure 3.** a) Polarization curves of the catalysts without iR-correction. b) Corresponding Tafel plots for the catalysts. c) Nyquist plots of the catalysts, generated from EIS measurements in 1.0 m KOH solution, the equivalent circuit for OER impedance spectra in illustration. d) Turnover frequency (TOF) values of the catalysts at different overpotentials. e) LSV curves of CF/WS/CNTs with different amounts of WS. The solid lines are under light, and the dotted lines are under dark conditions. f) The overpotential of CF/WS/CNTs with different amounts of WS at a current density of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

compositions of the catalysts are shown in Figure \$10 and Table \$3, Supporting Information. Figure 4a,b show the binding energies of Co 2p and Fe 2p, [52] which becomes more and more positive upon the addition of CNTs and WS. In contrast, as Figure 4c shows, the electron binding energy of C 1 s becomes more negative in CF/CNTs. The enlarged binding energy between CF and CNTs shows an interaction between CF and CNTs. It is consistent with the Raman result that the CF resulted in more structural defects in the CNTs and changes the electronic structure of the CNTs (Figure 2b). The electronic interaction between CNTs and CF implies the establishment of coupling interfaces, which is beneficial to the charge transfer. However, after introduction of the WS heterojunction, the C 1 s peak of CF/WS/CNTs shows no shift, while the Co 2p/Fe 2p is further positively shifted, suggesting WS mainly provides photogenerated holes to Co/Fe and makes them oxidized to higher valence as the active centers. Figure 4d shows the O 1 s XPS spectra, which consist of three oxygen peaks. The wellresolved component at 529.6 eV is associated with the typical metal oxygen bonds. The component at 530.9 eV is ascribed to the absorbed water and hydroxyl groups. The component at 532.5 eV can be attributed to a higher number of surface oxygen vacancies. The existence of the different O species presents shifted binding energies. WO<sub>3</sub> mainly contains metal oxygen. CF is composed of metal oxygen and hydroxyl

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Co 2p and b) Fe 2p XPS spectra for CF, CF/CNTs, and CF/WS/CNTs. c) C 1 s XPS spectra for CNTs, CF/CNTs, and CF/WS/CNTs. d) O 1 s XPS spectra for WO $_3$ , CNTs, CF, and CF/WS/CNTs. e) W 4f XPS spectra for WS and CF/WS/CNTs. f) Sn 3d XPS spectra for WS and CF/WS/CNTs.

oxygen, and CNTs possesses abundant hydroxyl oxygen and oxygen vacancies. After deconvolution of CF/WS/CNTs, the comparable presence of all these three oxygen species indicates the successful composition of WS, CF and CNTs. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 4e,f, the binding energies of W 4f and Sn 3d in CF/WS/CNTs are the same of that of WS. These results show that there is strong coupling between CNTs and CF beneficial for charge transfer, and the introduction of WS heterojunctions produces abundant photogenerated holes, which can transfer to CF and oxidize Co/Fe into higher valence as OER activity sites. Combined with the optical characterization results, it appears that CNTs and CF have no effect on light absorption but can effectively promote the separation of photogenerated charges, thus, greatly facilitate electron transfer between interfaces and boost the OER performance under illumination.

The surface area normalized activity of catalysts is very important for the intrinsic chemical analysis of materials. [53,54] Cyclic voltammetry (CV) can usually be used to calculate the electrochemical double layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) to reflect the electrochemical active area (ECSA) (Figure S11, Supporting Information) and then roughly determine the number of active sites. [55,56] As shown in Figure S11g, Supporting Information, whether with illumination or not, the C<sub>dl</sub> of CF/WS/CNTs does not increase compared with CF/CNTs, indicating the similar ECSA and comparable number of active sites of CF/WS/CNTs and CF/CNTs. Figure S11h, Supporting Information, shows the comparison of OER current density j at 1.53 V versus RHE. In the dark, the current density of CF/WS/CNTs shows a slight increase over CF/CNTs. But under illumination, the current density of CF/WS/CNTs significantly

increased, demonstrating that the photo-assisted electrocatalytic activity of CF/WS/CNTs does not derives from the increasing numbers of active sites, but from the effective charge separation and fast charge transfer under illumination.

In addition, UV–vis absorption result confirms the strong light absorption is from WS rather than CF and CNTs (Figure 2d); PL result shows CNTs and CF can suppressed recombination of photogenerated charges of WS and achieve fast charge transfer under illumination (Figure 2e); From the XPS, the Co 2p and Fe 2p XPS spectra of CF/WS/CNTs show the higher binding energy than CF/CNTs, presenting the pathways of the holes transport to CF, which can effectively prohibit charge recombination and facilitate charge transfer to boost OER performance. As shown in EIS results (Figure 3c), the CF/WS/CNTs displays the smallest charge transfer resistance, confirming the fastest charge transport kinetics.

Based on the results above, we propose the mechanism to clarify the enhanced OER performance in CF/WS/CNTs, as shown in Figure 5a. Under light illumination, photoexcited electrons (e<sup>-</sup>) and holes (h<sup>+</sup>) produced in WS occupy the CB and VB respectively. Because of the internal electric field, the electrons will be transferred to WO<sub>3</sub>, while the high density of holes will accumulate on VB of SnSe<sub>2</sub>. However, the electrons at the CB of WO<sub>3</sub> will reach the holes at the VB of SnSe<sub>2</sub>, which may facilitate charge recombination and result in the degradation of photoelectrochemical performance. Then the photogenerated holes in the VB of SnSe<sub>2</sub> transfer to the CF in contact with SnSe<sub>2</sub> surfaces and trapped in CF, which oxidize Co/Fe into higher valence, which allows OH to be quickly adsorbed by metal site (R1) and then deprotonates to generate \*O species (R2). Afterward, O-O coupling occurs through nucleophilic attack of OH to form an \*OOH intermediate (R3). Finally, the O2 molecule desorbs from the catalyst surface along with second deprotonation, releasing the active metal site and looping the reaction (R4).[57] Ultimately, the photogenerated holes reduce the energy barrier of water oxidation reactions and remarkably accelerate the kinetics and to boost the OER performance, that also facilitates charge transfer and suppresses the charge recombination of WS.

Further, the CF/WS/CNTs catalyst shows excellent stability with a negligible decrease in current density or composition after OER durability tests. Seen from Figure 5b, the current density of  $RuO_2$  decreased by 35% after 10 h OER measurement. However, in the dark, the current density of CF/WS/CNTs decreased only 0.5%, suggesting the remarkable stability of CF/WS/CNTs in electrocatalytic OER process. Under illumination, the current density decreased by 9.9%, indicating the slight deterioration of photostability. LSV curves of CF/WS/CNTs after 1000 cycles are presented in Figure 5c and essentially no change in overpotential and current density was observed upon illumination or in the dark. Figure \$12a,b, Supporting Information, shows the SEM and TEM images of CF/WS/CNTs after long time OER test. It can be observed that the catalyst generally remains its morphology and interfacial structure. However, some hexagonal SnSe2 nanoplates are deconstructed. The lattice fringes of SnSe2 can still be measured in HRTEM (Figure \$12c, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, lattice fringes of SnO<sub>2</sub> can be observed, which suggests the partial conversion of SnSe<sub>2</sub> to SnO<sub>2</sub>. Figure S12d-k, Supporting Information, shows the elemental mapping images, in which Sn and Se atoms are still distributed on the surface of CF/WS/CNTs, while O atoms also show homogeneous distribution in accordance with Sn. This is probably due to the high density of holes accumulating on SnSe2, which leads to the localized oxidation of Se during the OER process, forms resident vacancies, and defects on SnSe2. In addition, the XPS of CF/WS/CNTs after the OER

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Schematic illustration of the proposed mechanism of CF/WS/CNTs for OER in alkaline media. b) Chronoamperometry of the CF/WS/CNTs catalyst under an overpotential of 0.291 V versus RHE in 1.0 M KOH to test OER stability. c) OER polarization curves for CF/WS/CNTs before and after 1000 cycles in the stability test. The solid lines are under light irradiation and the dotted lines are in dark conditions. d) LSV curves of a typical two electrode system using CF/WS/CNTs and 20% Pt/C as the anode and cathode, respectively, in 1.0 M KOH. The results obtained using RuO $_2$  and 20% Pt/C as the anode and cathode, respectively, are shown for comparison. The solid lines are under light irradiation and the dotted lines are in dark conditions; Inset shows the photograph showing the smooth generation of hydrogen and oxygen bubbles from overall water splitting using CF/WS/CNTs||20% Pt/C.

measurement shows an negative XPS shift for Co and Fe (Figure S13a, b, Supporting Information), because there were a large number of electrons generated from the second deprotonation of OER (Figure 5b), which are not transferred out immediately, but concentrate on the released active metal site to remain the high DOS of d-band for the further capture of photoinduced holes under illumination. The XPS peaks of C1s, W 4f, Sn 3d and Se 3d did not shift (Figure S13c-f, Supporting Information). However, the O 1 s shows a positive shift (Figure S13g, Supporting Information), suggesting the photogenerated holes produce more surface oxygen vacancies in CF/WS/CNTs to enhance the OER performance. The XRD still maintains distinct WO<sub>3</sub> and CNTs patterns (Figure \$14, Supporting Information) after durability tests, but the (101), (102) diffraction peaks for SnSe<sub>2</sub> diminished after long-term test. It may be attributed to the partial conversion of SnSe2 to SnO2 results in the destruction of the smooth and orderly lattice structure. However, SnO2 is also considered as an excellent photocatalyst with its high stability and excellent durability, and surface decoration via amorphization is a feasible approach to construct a high-efficiency photocatalyst. [58] The crystalline–amorphous phase introduced by partial oxidation of SnSe2 could leave a mesoporous structure, form resident vacancies and defects, and provide abundant sites for photoresponse. Therefore, the CF/WS/CNTs still exhibits excellent stability during the long-term OER performance under illumination.

Based on the outstanding performance of CF/WS/CNTs, overall water splitting was conducted in 1 m KOH using CF/WS/CNTs as the anode and 20% Pt/C as the cathode. Cell voltages of 1.53 and 1.49 V were obtained at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  in the dark and in the light, respectively, lower than that of benchmark RuO $_2\|20\%$  Pt/C catalysts (1.59 V), as shown in Figure 5d. The inset shows the smooth generation of hydrogen and oxygen bubbles on the electrode surface from

overall water splitting. CF/WS/CNTs||20% Pt/C effectively lowers the overall water splitting potential and enhances the current density upon illumination, indicating the WS heterojunction greatly promotes the water splitting performance of CF/WS/CNTs.

Based on the above discussion, OER performance of CF/WS/CNTs is greatly promoted by the WS p-n heterojunction upon illumination. The WS heterojunction can also be used with other transition metal double layer hydroxides and carbon materials, such as NiCo-LDH (NC), NiFe-LDH (NF), carbon black (CB), and reduced graphene oxide (rGO). As shown in Figure \$15, Supporting Information, light illumination of the WS heterojunction improves OER performance of the resulting NC/WS/CNTs, NF/WS/CNTs, CF/WS/CB, and CF/WS/rGO: the overpotential decreases by 60, 45, 51, and 43 mV (Table S4, Supporting Information), respectively, to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> upon illumination compared with in the dark. These results show the generality of this strategy of promoting the catalytic activity of catalysts using a WS heterojunction. The greatly enhanced efficiency of the OER by these catalysts (NC/WS/CNTs, NF/WS/CNTs, CF/WS/CB, and CF/WS/rGO) demonstrates that this approach could open new

avenues toward the design of more energy-efficient light-driven catalytic water oxidation systems.

#### 3. Conclusions

In summary, CF/WS/CNTs composites were synthesized by a simple method to enhance photo-assisted electrocatalytic OER. The p-n WS heterojunction is used to adsorb and produce to absorb and produce photogenerated carriers. The photogenerated holes are trapped by CF to suppresses the charge recombination and facilitate charge transfer, which reduce the energy barrier of water oxidation reactions and accelerates OER kinetics. UV-vis absorption result confirms the strong light absorption is from WS rather than CF and CNTs. PL result shows CNTs and CF can facilitate the separation of photogenerated charges of WS and achieve fast charge transfer under illumination. Therefore, the CF/ WS/CNTs catalyst exhibits excellent performance with a very low overpotential and Tafel slope, as well as high mass activity, TOF and stability. This work combines WS p-n heterojunction and transition metalbased electrocatalysts to investigate their synergistic mechanism for maximization of the OER performance. In addition, the presented method can be extended to the preparation of other efficient electrocatalysts (NC/WS/CNTs, NF/WS/CNTs, CF/WS/CB, and CF/WS/rGO) to increase their OER performance with light illumination.

### 4. Experimental Section

Reagents and materials: Carbon nanotubes (carbonaceous purity: 40%–60%) were acquired from Carbon Solutions, Inc., as was carbon cloth. Cobalt nitrate hexahydrate (Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.5%), ferrous sulfate heptahydrate (FeSO<sub>4</sub>·7H<sub>2</sub>O,

<span id="page-6-0"></span>99.5%), nickel chloride hexahydrate (NiCl $_2$ ·GH $_2$ O, 99.5%), sodium tungstate dihydrate (Na $_2$ WO $_4$ ·2H $_2$ O, 99.5%), ammonium oxalate ((NH $_4$ ) $_2$ C $_2$ O $_4$ 99.5%), sodium borohydride (NaBH $_4$ 99.5%), potassium hydroxide (KOH, 99.5%, w $_{Fe} \leq 0.001$ %), hydrochloric acid, tin chloride dihydrate (SnCl $_2$ ·2H $_2$ O, 99.5%), and selenium oxide (SeO $_2$ 9.5%) were obtained from Aldrich and used without further purification. RuO $_2$  and Pt/C catalysts were from Macklin. N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), benzyl alcohol, hydrazine hydrate, acetone, and ethanol were purchased from the Chemical Reagent Company of Tianjin Hongyan. All inorganic salts (extra purity grade) were supplied by Sinopharm Chemical. Deionized water for preparing solutions was produced using an Autopure system (18.2 m $\Omega$ , Millipore, USA). Other solutions were made using secondary water.

Preparation of CoFe-LDH, NiFe-LDH, and NiCo-LDH nanosheets: Co  $(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$  (0.2 g) and Fe(SO<sub>4</sub>) $_2 \cdot 7H_2O$  (0.2 g) were added to 10 mL deionized water and 2 mL acetone and stirred to obtain a homogeneous solution. Then, 160 mg NaBH<sub>4</sub> was added, and the solution was stirred for 30 min at ambient temperature to obtain CoFe-LDH nanosheets. NiFe-LDH and NiCo-LDH nanosheets were similarly synthesized.

Preparation of WO $_3$  nanosheets: Na $_2$ WO $_4$ ·2H $_2$ O (0.495 g) and (NH $_4$ ) $_2$ C $_2$ O $_4$  (0.469 g) were dissolved in 135 mL deionized water. Then, 5 mL 3  $_1$  M HCl was added, and the solution was stirred for 0.5 h. A 10 mL aliquot of the solution was transferred into a 25 mL Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave and heated at 140 °C for 3 h. The as-prepared material was washed several times with deionized water and ethanol, then dried at 60 °C for 5 h. Finally, the material was annealed at 450 °C for 1 h in air at a heating rate of 5 °C/min to obtain WO $_3$  nanorods.

Preparation of SnSe<sub>2</sub> nanoplates:<sup>[60]</sup> SnCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O (9 mg), 4 mg SeO<sub>2</sub>, and 960 mg polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) were added to 16 mL benzyl alcohol, and stirred for 0.5 h. Then, the as-prepared precursor solution was transferred into a 25 mL Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave and heated at 180 °C for 16 h. After cooling naturally to room temperature, the product was washed several times with ethanol and acetone, then dried at 60 °C for 5 h.

Preparation of  $WO_3/SnSe_2$  (WS) heterojunctions: The obtained  $SnSe_2$  was dispersed into 3 mL ethanol, then added to the precursor solution of  $WO_3$ , transferred into a 25 mL Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave, and heated at 140 °C for 3 h. The as-prepared material was washed several times with deionized water and ethanol, then dried at 60 °C. Finally, the material was annealed at 450 °C for 1 h in air at a heating rate of 5 °C/min to obtain WS heterojunctions.

Preparation of CoFe-LDH, WS, and CNTs (CF/WS/CNTs) catalysts: WS (4 mg), CNTs (4 mg), CoFe-LDH (4 mg) were added in 20 mL DMF and obtained a homogeneous solution by ultrasonic treatment 24 h at 80 °C and room temperature, which were denoted as the CF/WS/CNTs and the physically mixed sample. Then, the obtained material was washed several times with ethanol and acetone and dried at 60 °C for 5 h. CoFe-LDH and CNTs (CF/CNTs) was obtained under the same procedure as above without adding WS.

Characterization: The crystallographic structure of Te was investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Bruker, D8 ADVANCE) with Cu Kα radiation ( $\lambda$  = 1.5418 Å). The morphology of the catalysts was investigated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Hitachi S-4800, Japan) equipped with EDS-mapping. Data were collected using a pass energy of 50 eV. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) were conducted on a FEI Talos F200X (USA) operated at 200 kV. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, ESCALAB250xi, USA) in an ultrahigh vacuum using an unmonochromatized Mg Kα radiation source was used to analyze composition and chemical valence. A UV–visible spectrophotometer (UV-2600, Shimadzu Corp.) was used to measure the absorption spectra of the as-prepared samples. Photoluminescence (PL) spectra obtained by excitation at 371 nm were recorded on a Spex Fluorolog-3 spectrofluorometer. WO<sub>3</sub> exhibited strong absorbance at 521 nm.

Photo-assisted electrochemical measurements: All the deposition and electrochemical measurements were conducted using a CHI 660D electrochemical workstation (CHII Instruments, Shanghai, China) equipped with a 300 W Xe lamp (PLS-SXE300, Beijing, China). The intensity of the light was calibrated and simulated to air mass (AM) 1.5 illumination. A conventional three-electrode system was used, consisting of modified carbon cloth as the working electrode (1 cm², loading  $\sim$  1 mg cm $^{-2}$ ), a saturated Ag/AgCl electrode as a reference electrode, and a graphite rod as an auxiliary electrode. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurements for OER were recorded in 1 m KOH solution at a scan rate of

10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The linear portion of the Tafel plots was fit according to the Tafel equation ( $\eta=b\log j+a$ ), where  $\eta$  is the overpotential, a is Tafel's constant, b is the Tafel slope, and j is the current density. All results were calibrated with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the equation E (RHE) = E(Ag/AgCl) + 0.1981 V + 0.059 × pH. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was performed in 1 m KOH solution at 1.5 V versus RHE at frequencies ranging from 0.01 Hz to 10 KHz. Transient photocurrent density is measured in 1 m KOH at 1.23 V using the same electrode materials as all the other electrochemical measurements.

#### Acknowledgements

L.B., S.J. and Y.G. contributed equally to this work. We gratefully acknowledge the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 41807213) and the Hydrogeological Survey Project of Huangshui River (No. DD20190331).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Keywords**

active species, oxygen evolution reaction, photo-assisted electrocatalysis, photogenerated charge separation, p-n WO<sub>3</sub>/SnSe<sub>2</sub> heterojunction

Received: December 14, 2021 Revised: June 8, 2022 Published online: June 17, 2022

- H. H. Duan, D. G. Li, Y. Tang, Y. He, S. F. Ji, R. Y. Wang, H. F. Lv, P. P. Lopes, A. P. Paulikas, H. Y. Li, S. X. Mao, C. M. Wang, N. M. Markovic, J. Li, V. R. Stamenkovic, Y. D. Li, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 5494.
- [2] L. Wang, Y. Zhang, L. Chen, H. X. Xu, Y. J. Xiong, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1801955.
- [3] L. Ai, R. Shi, J. Yang, K. Zhang, T. R. Zhang, S. Y. Lu, Small 2021, 17, 2007523.
- [4] X. X. Guo, R.-M. Kong, X. P. Zhang, H. T. Du, F. L. Qu, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 651.
- [5] C. Du, L. Yang, F. L. Yang, G. Z. Cheng, W. Luo, ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 4131.
- [6] D. J. Chen, C. Chen, Z. M. Baiyee, Z. P. Shao, F. Ciucci, Chem. Rev. 2015, 115, 9869.
- [7] S. Chen, J. J. Duan, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 13567.
- [8] D. Inohara, H. Maruyama, Y. Kakihara, H. Kurokawa, M. Nakayama, ACS Omega 2018, 3, 7840.
- [9] Y. Jia, L. Z. Zhang, G. P. Gao, H. Chen, B. Wang, J. Z. Zhou, M. T. Soo, M. Hong, X. C. Yan, G. R. Qian, J. Zou, A. J. Du, X. D. Yao, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1700017.
- [10] Y. Yang, L. N. Dang, M. J. Shearer, H. Y. Sheng, W. J. Li, J. Chen, P. Xiao, Y. H. Zhang, R. J. Hamers, S. Jin, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1703189.
- [11] C. Tang, H.-F. Wang, X.-L. Zhu, B.-Q. Li, Q. Zhang, Part. Part. Syst. Charact. 2016, 33, 473.
- [12] Y. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zhang, Z. J. Liu, C. Xie, S. Feng, D. D. Liu, M. F. Shao, S. Y. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 5867.
- [13] W. D. Li, Y. X. Z. Y. Liu, M. Z. Sun, G. N. Waterhouse, B. L. Huang, K. Zhang, T. R. Zhang, S. Y. Lu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 3290.

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>[14] Z. L. Chen, R. B. Wu, M. Liu, Y. Liu, S. Y. Xu, Y. Ha, Y. H. Guo, X. B. Yu, D. L. Sun, F. Fang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 10304.
- [15] W. L. Kwong, C. C. Lee, J. Messinger, J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 120, 10941.
- [16] T. Lana-Villarreal, G. Roberto, Electrochem. Commun. 2005, 7, 1218.
- [17] D. E. Roberto, Z. H. Zhao, A. P. Leitner, L. X. Xie, F. Qin, M. K. Alam, S. Chen, D. Z. Wang, Z. F. Ren, Z. M. Wang, J. M. Bao, K. H. Whitmire, ACS Nano 2017, 11, 4051.
- [18] J. Z. Su, L. J. Guo, N. Z. Bao, C. A. Grimes, Nano Lett. 2011, 11, 1928.
- [19] K. P. Zhang, S. Y. Lu, W. T. Guo, J. X. Su, S. H. Sun, J. Hai, F. J. Chen, A. Q. Wang, B. D. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 10180.
- [20] M. Li, X. L. Tu, Y. H. Wang, Y. J. Su, J. Hu, B. F. Cai, J. Lu, Z. Yang, Y. F. Zhang, Nano-Micro Lett. 2018, 10, 45.
- [21] A. Z. Liao, H. C. He, L. Q. Tang, Y. C. Li, J. Y. Zhang, J. N. Chen, L. Chen, C. F. Zhang, Y. Zhou, Z. G. Zou, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 10141.
- [22] S. P. Berglund, H. C. He, W. D. Chemelewski, H. Celio, A. Dolocan, C. B. Mullins, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 1535.
- [23] M. Ma, K. Zhang, P. Li, M. S. Jung, M. J. Jeong, J. H. Park, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 11819.
- [24] D. D. Zhao, C. Liang, B. Z. Wang, T. H. Liu, Q. Wei, K. Y. Wang, H. Gu, S. S. Wang, S. L. Mei, G. C. Xing, Energy Environ. Mater. DOI: [10.1002/eem2.12249](https://doi.org/10.1002/eem2.12249).
- [25] X. L. Zhang, X. Wang, D. F. Wang, J. H. Ye, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 5623.
- [26] Y. W. Liu, L. Liang, C. Xiao, X. M. Hua, Z. Li, B. C. Pan, Y. Xie, Adv. Energy Mater. 2016, 6, 1600437.
- [27] M. J. Yang, H. C. He, H. P. Zhang, X. H. Zhong, F. Q. Dong, G. L. Ke, Y. Q. Chen, J. Y. Du, Y. Zhou, Electrochim. Acta 2018, 283, 871.
- [28] Y. Zhao, S. Balasubramanyam, R. Sinha, R. Lavrijsen, M. A. Verheijen, A. A. Bol, A. Bieberle-Hutter, € ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2018, 1, 5887.
- [29] J. Zhang, Z. H. Liu, Z. F. Liu, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016, 8, 9684.
- [30] Y. C. Ding, B. Xiao, G. Tang, J. W. Hong, J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 121, 225.
- [31] Y. N. Xu, X. F. Liu, H. Su, S. Jiang, J. M. Zhang, D. Li, Energy Environ. Mater. 2022, 5, 627.
- [32] Y. T. Luo, H. D. Yang, P. Ma, S. Luo, Z. M. Zhao, J. T. Ma, ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 2020, 8, 3336.
- [33] F. Y. Ning, M. F. Shao, S. M. Xu, Y. Fu, R. K. Zhang, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, Energ. Environ. Sci. 2016, 9, 2633.
- [34] X. H. Wu, L. Tang, Y. Si, C. L. Ma, P. Zhang, J. Y. Yu, Y.-T. Liu, B. Ding, Energy Environ. Mater. DOI: [10.1002/EEM2.12316](https://doi.org/10.1002/EEM2.12316).
- [35] B. Lei, W. Cui, P. Chen, R. M. Chen, Y. J. Sun, K.-H. Kim, F. Dong, Energy Environ. Mater. DOI: [10.1002/eem2.12291.](https://doi.org/10.1002/eem2.12291)
- [36] C. You, Y. Y. Ji, Z. A. Liu, X. L. Xiong, X. P. Sun, ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 2018, 6, 1527.
- [37] L. Y. Hu, R. S. Xiao, X. Wang, X. S. Wang, C. L. Wang, J. Wen, W. L. Gu, C. Z. Zhu, Appl. Catal. Environ. 2021, 298, 120599.

- [38] S. Y. Lv, X. Y. Liu, X. H. Li, W. F. Luo, W. X. Xu, Z. J. Shi, Y. J. Ren, C. X. Zhang, K. Zhang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2020, 12, 43049.
- [39] Z. Ke, Y. Zheng, J. J. Zhang, G. T. Zhang, H. Wu, X. Y. Xu, W. Zhou, X. G. Zhu, Ceram. Int. 2020, 46, 20138.
- [40] K. E. Aretouli, D. Tsoutsou, P. Tsipas, J. Marquez-Velasco, S. A. Giamini, N. Kelaidis, V. Psycharis, A. Dimoulas, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016, 8, 23222.
- [41] L. Huang, Y. F. Yu, C. Li, L. Y. Cao, J. Phys. Chem. C 2013, 117, 6469.
- [42] L. Chen, M. Zeng, W. Q. Zhang, L. He, W. Y. He, F. C. Yang, X. Zhang, ChemCatChem 2018, 10, 1128.
- [43] Y. F. Li, J. Liu, X. P. Chen, J. X. Wu, N. Li, W. H. He, Y. J. Feng, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2021, 13, 58508.
- [44] J. L. Mu, F. Teng, H. Miao, Y. S. Wang, X. Y. Hu, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2020, 501, 143974.
- [45] Y.-C. Liang, S.-S. Guo, K.-K. Liu, W.-J. Wu, C.-Z. Guo, S.-Y. Lu, J.-H. Zang, X.-Y. Wu, Q. Lou, L. Dong, Y.-F. Guo, C.-X. Shan, Nano Today 2020, 34, 100900.
- [46] C.-Q. Li, S.-S. Yi, D.-L. Chen, Y. Liu, Y.-J. Li, S.-Y. Lu, X.-Z. Yue, Z.-Y. Liu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 17974.
- [47] Y. Su, C. Wang, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, D. D. Dionysiou, Mater. Res. Bull. 2019, 118, 110524.
- [48] K. Maeda, K. Domen, J. Catal. 2014, 310, 67.
- [49] X. Y. Wang, Z. L. Jin, J. Ind. Eng. Chem. 2021, 103, 222.
- [50] S. S. Kalanur, H. Seo, Appl. Catal. Environ. 2019, 249, 235.
- [51] L. Zhang, R. B. Tong, S. E. Shirsath, Y. L. Yang, G. H. Du, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 5000.
- [52] R. Liu, Y. Y. Wang, D. D. Liu, Y. Q. Zou, S. Y. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1701546.
- [53] C. Wei, S. N. Sun, D. Mandler, X. Wang, S. Z. Qiao, Z. C. J. Xu, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2019, 48, 2518.
- [54] Y. M. Yoon, B. Yan, Y. Surendranath, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 2397.
- [55] K. Y. Zhu, J. Y. Chen, W. J. Wang, J. W. Liao, J. C. Dong, M. O. Lam Chee, N. Wang, P. Dong, P. M. Ajayan, S. P. Gao, J. F. Shen, M. X. Ye, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, 30, 2003556.
- [56] H. Zhang, X. Li, A. H€ahnel, V. Naumann, C. Lin, S. Azimi, S. L. Schweizer, A. Wouter Maijenburg, R. B. Wehrspohn, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1706847.
- [57] N. Zhang, Y. Chai, Energ. Environ. Sci. 2021, 14, 4647.
- [58] S. Li, L. Meng, W. Tian, L. Li, Adv. Energy Mater. 2022, 12, 2200629.
- [59] Y. D. Wang, C. Chen, W. Tian, W. W. Xu, L. Li, Nanotechnology 2019, 30, 495402.
- [60] M. Davi, G. Ogutu, F. Schrader, A. Rokicinska, P. Kustrowski, A. Slabon, Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2017, 37, 4267.