---
source: Cheng 等 - 2021 - Platinum Nanoparticles Decorated IrO2 @MWCNT as an Improved Catalyst for Oxygen Evolution.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 38.066s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:24:27.049964Z
---

## z **Catalysis**

# **Platinum Nanoparticles Decorated IrO2@MWCNT as an Improved Catalyst for Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Yaping Cheng,[a] Fan Yang,[a] Jiafang Gong,[a] Bohua Wu,[a] Zhao Zhang,[b, c] and Jia [Chu\\*](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6823-221X)[a, b, c]

In this paper, IrO2 nanoparticles supported on multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) are synthesized via a facile hydrothermal method and calcination process at different temperature. Platinum nanoparticles decorated IrO2@MWCNT-400°C are prepared by chemical reduction method. The influence of MWCNTs and Pt on physicochemical properties and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) activity of IrO2@MWCNT composites were studied via transmission electron microscope (TEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman spectra, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopic (XPS) and electrochemical methods. Among the samples, Pt/ IrO2@MWCNT-400°C exhibits better catalytic activity with an overpotential of 270 mV at the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with a low Tafel slope of 85.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> . The outstanding OER performance of Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C is ascribed to the introduction of the MWCNTs, which can not only act as a support to prevent agglomeration of IrO2 nanoparticles that produces high surface area of catalytic sites, but also facilitates electron transfer between IrO2 nanoparticles and MWCNTs. On the other hand, the Pt optimizes electronic structure for excellent electrocatalytic performance. Therefore, the Pt/ IrO2@MWCNT-400°C catalyst is a good choice for application in OER.

## **1. Introduction**

In recent years, the increased energy demand, environmental concerns and depletion of fossil fuel are motivating researchers to seek alternative sustainable energy resources.[1–4] In this connection, electrochemical water splitting provides a feasible strategy to solve this problem. Electrochemical water splitting is composed of oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), among them OER is a crucial process with the complicated physical adsorption and desorption process, sluggish reaction kinetics as well as the high overpotential.[5–10]

The efficiency of the OER is the order of catalytic activity along with other parameters such as surface area structure, accessibility of the electrolyte, electrical conductivity and stability. Currently, the most efficient electrodes for OER are precious metal-based electrocatalysts.[5,11–13] Among the OER materials, IrO2 has been considered as the best choice for OER, which due to high electrocatalytic activity toward oxygen evolution, good conductivity, lower intrinsic reaction overpotential and stability under anodic conditions. However, nanomaterial easily arises agglomeration during the reaction, which seriously reduces the exposure of catalytic active sites,[1,14] thus the activity and durability of IrO2 catalyst are still significant challenges.[15–17] At present, building IrO2 hybrid nanostructure is one of the most feasible and efficient strategy by increasing active sites or improving structural stability.[18] Usually, depositing the catalysts onto suitable supports is a typical select to improve its electrochemical performance. In this regard, various conductive carbonaceous materials such as active carbon,[19] carbon black[20,21] and graphene[22–25] were considered as support materials for IrO2 catalyst, which will play their largest roles during the process of catalyst preparation and water electrolysis.[12,26] Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) for example gain particular interest as an ideal conductive substrate.[27] Previous reports have typically aimed at understanding the relationship between MWCNTs and IrO2 and reported the enhancement effect of MWCNTs for OER catalyst (See Table S1). Badam *et al.*[26] developed a simple and facile hydrothermal method for preparation of IrO2/CNT as excellent electrocatalyst for OER in 0.1 M H2SO4. The as-prepared IrO2/ CNT showed high electrocatalytic OER activity with the overpotential of 270 mV vs RHE at the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Guan *et al.*[28] showed the synthesis of IrO2 clusters supported on MWCNTs as a high performance electrode by a chemical vapor deposition method, which demonstrates excellent catalytic activities for OER in 0.5 M H2SO4, with an overpotential of 293 mV vs RHE (at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ). Experimental results indicated that the enhanced catalytic activity related to the IrO2/CNT sample not only provide more active sites but also expose more unsaturated surface Ir atoms. Wen *et al.*[29] adopted a simple impregnation strategy to prepare an ultrafine IrO2 on the surface of MWCNTs. The IrO2@CNT catalyst shows

- [a] *Y. Cheng, F. Yang, J. Gong, Dr. B. Wu, Dr. J. Chu* College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Xi'an University of Science and Technology, Xi'an, 710054, China
- [b] *Prof. Z. Zhang, Dr. J. Chu* Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310027, China
- [c] *Prof. Z. Zhang, Dr. J. Chu* Zhejiang Yuxi Corrosion Control Co., Ltd, Xiangshan County, Ningbo 315700, China E-mail: chujia@xust.edu.cn
- Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.202101127>

superior electrochemical oxygen evolution activity toward OER at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , with 272 mV vs RHE of overpotential in 0.5 M H2SO4. The significantly enhanced catalytic activity arises from the synergetic action between IrO2 and MWCNTs, which supply more electrochemical surface area for the catalyst. The key factors behind the IrO2@MWCNT nanostructural composites as advanced electrocatalytic electrode are as follows: (i) IrO2 catalysts are well dispersed on the MWCNTs matrix to avoid aggregation; (ii) the increase of electrocatalytic active surface area in contact with the electrolyte; (iii) high electric conductivity and excellent connection between active materials and MWCNTs substrate. In the OER system, the presence of carbon nanotube could effectively prevent aggregation of electrochemically active phases during prolonged synthesis process. In addition, efficient modification of the IrO2 with other noble metals has proven to be an effective way to further enhance the OER performance. Among the noble metals, Pt nanoparticles have received much attention as a result of its some advantages such as reliability, significantly stability and high electro-oxidation catalytic activity. So far, the effect of Pt addition in the IrO2@MWCNT composition subjected to different surface treatment processes on electrochemical performance of the anode is not studied before. Here, we aim to understand the influence of MWCNTs substrate and Pt on the electrochemical OER activity of IrO2. In doing so, we chose hydrothermal synthesis that can produce high quality nanostructural IrO2@MWCNT composites, and then the samples were calcined at 350, 400, 450 and 500°C, as illustrated in Scheme 1. Thereafter, the Pt nanoparticles loaded on IrO2@MWCNT by chemical reduction. Moreover, the IrO2@MWCNT-400°C with or without Pt addition in oxygen evolution reaction on the performance of the electrode were studied. Further, we use various characterization techniques including TEM, XRD, Raman spectra, TGA, and XPS to relate the structural and morphological changes to the observed electrochemical OER activity and catalyst stability.

## **2. Results and discussion**

#### **2.1. TEM analysis**

The morphology and microstructure of the as-synthesized IrO2@MWCNT composites were characterized by TEM and the resultant images are shown in Figure 1. Figure 1a and 1b show the TEM images of IrO2@MWCNT-350°C, it can be seen that the IrO2 nanoparticles are homogeneously loaded on the surface of MWCNTs with a regular spherical nanosize. Significantly changes on the state of MWCNTs and size of IrO2 nanoparticles were observed while increasing the calcination temperatures.

Figure 1c, f, i and l shows the average diameter of IrO2 nanoparticles for IrO2@MWCNT-350°C, IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, IrO2@MWCNT-450°C and IrO2@MWCNT-500°C are 1.77, 2.26, 2.65 and 3.23 nm, respectively. Clearly, the sizes of the IrO2 nanoparticles increase significantly with the increasing of calcination temperatures. In case of IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, the IrO2 nanoparticles growth to larger sized spherical morphology, as observed in Figure1d and e. After calcined at 450°C, the tubular MWCNTs were gradually damaged and the IrO2 nanoparticles attained deeper oxidation with larger particle size. When increasing the calcination temperature to 500°C, the MWCNTs were hardly seen in the sample and the IrO2 nanoparticles reached complete oxidation and showed larger sized particles. Since, at low calcination temperatures, the MWCNTs maintain well which act as the substrate for the growth of IrO2 nanoparticles. Although at calcination temperature of 400°C, the decomposition of the MWCNTs were led to the aggregation of the IrO2 nanoparticles to a certain extent, the IrO2 nanoparticles were still maintain well dispersion and large accessible surface area which facilitate the electron transport and ionic motion on the electrode surface. Meanwhile, the selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (insets) exhibits obvious concentric diffraction crystalline rings, indicating the crystalline nature of the IrO2 at different composites. Furthermore, the lattice fringes of samples are depicted in Figure 1b, e, h and k, respectively. As the calcination temperature increases, it is observed that the lattice fringes of the IrO2 nanoparticles have

**Scheme 1.** A schematic illustration for the fabrication of IrO2@MWCNT composites.

**Figure 1.** TEM images of the samples with different magnifications, corresponding SAED pattern (insets) and particle size distribution histogram of (a, b, c) IrO2@MWCNT-350°C, (d, e, f) IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, (g, h, i) IrO2@MWCNT-450°C and (j, k, l) IrO2@MWCNT-500°C.

been significantly improved, indicating the degree of crystallization of IrO2 nanoparticles has increased. Figure 2a shows the TEM images of Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C catalyst, in which the metallic spherical nanoparticles appear to evenly well-dispersed on the surface of MWCNTs. The HRTEM (Figure 2b) shows a typical lattice spaces of 0.31, 0.26 and 0.22 nm, which results from the (110), (101) planes of IrO2 (JCPDS-15-0870) and the (111) planes of Pt, respectively. This result confirms that the Pt/ IrO2@MWCNT-400°C catalysts are composed of small spherical Pt/IrO2 nanoparticles dispersed over the MWCNTs. Specifically, the crystal size for the Pt-decorated IrO2 is 2.63 nm (Figure 2c), approaching to that for pure IrO2 (2.26 nm). The observed morphological changes can be explained by the similar kinetics of transmetalation process for Ir and Pt in the preparation process.[30] These results depict that the Pt and IrO2 nanoparticles uniformly dispersed on the MWCNTs substrate and as an efficient carrier, the MWCNTs could effectively prevent the aggregation of IrO2 nanoparticles.

#### **2.2. XRD and Raman analysis**

Figure 3 presents the XRD patterns of the as-prepared IrO2@MWCNT and Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C composite. The obvious diffraction peaks at 27.88°, 34.64° and 53.95° can be indicated to characteristic peaks of the rutile IrO2(JCPDS 15- 0870), which corresponds to the (110), (101) and (211) planes, respectively. The wide diffraction peak of IrO2 rutile structure was observed for IrO2@MWCNT-350°C and IrO2@MWCNT-400°C. This is probably due to the formation of fine grains at 350 and 400°C.[31] In addition, the diffraction peaks of IrO2 become narrow and the peaks intensity of (110) and (101) planes were gradually improved with the calcination temperatures increase from 350 to 500°C, indicating that more crystalline phase of IrO2 will form at higher temperature, which are consistent with the TEM results. It was noteworthy that the diffraction peaks of MWCNTs at 25.91° can be observed in IrO2@MWCNT-350°C and IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, which belong to

**Figure 2.** (a) TEM images and corresponding SAED pattern (insets), (b) HRTEM images and (c) particle size distribution histogram of the Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C.

Figure 3. (a, b) XRD patterns and (c) Raman spectra of the as-synthesized samples.

the (002) planes of MWCNTs. However, this peak disappeared at 450 and 500°C, illustrating the decomposition of the MWCNTs at higher temperature. The results indicate that MWCNTs disappeared gradually and the crystalline phase of IrO<sub>2</sub> improved with the calcination temperature increases, which had been verified through TEM. Additionally, the XRD patterns of Pt/IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400°C are shown in Figure 3b. The peaks located at 25.91° are assigned to MWCNTs. Three diffraction peaks at 39.76°, 46.40° and 67.69° corresponded to planes (111), (200) and (220) belongs to the face-centered cubic (fcc) Pt metal, respectively. On the other hand, the (110) and (101) planes related to IrO<sub>2</sub> at 27.88° and 34.64° are overlapped, meanwhile the (211) crystalline plane was weakened. Furthermore, the crystallinity of IrO<sub>2</sub> remain the same with the addition of Pt.

The structure of the pristine MWCNTs and IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT composites were further analyzed by Raman spectroscopy. As shown in Figure 3c, two obvious peaks are observed in the pristine MWCNTs, which corresponds to the D-band (1345 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and G-band (1576 cm<sup>-1</sup>), respectively. The D-band indicates that there are amorphous carbon or structural defects in the MWCNTs, while the G-band corresponds to the stretch vibration with sp<sup>2</sup> hybridization of carbon materials.<sup>[19]</sup> As expected, it can be observed that the IrO2@MWCNT-350°C exhibits significant D-band and G-band. For IrO2@MWCNT-400 °C, the intensity of D-band and G-band significantly decreased, while new peaks of the typical Ir-O vibration of rutile IrO<sub>2</sub> emerged at 540 and 712 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be assigned to E<sub>q</sub> and B<sub>2a</sub> modes, respectively. Furthermore, as the calcination temperature increases to 450 and 500 °C, the peak intensity of IrO<sub>2</sub> increase gradually, indicate the degree of crystallization of IrO<sub>2</sub> increased gradually at higher temperature, however, the characteristic peak of MWCNTs disappeared, which can be interpreted as the decomposition of MWCNTs which was consistence with the TEM and XRD analysis.

#### 2.3. TGA analysis

To better understand the structure features of IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT composites at various calcination temperatures, TGA was carried out under air atmosphere, as shown in Figure 4. All samples show an initial about 4% weight loss gradually up to

Figure 4. TGA curves of  $IrO_2@MWCNT$  composites calcined at 350, 400, 450 and 500 °C.

200 °C, which corresponds to the removal of adsorbed water of the samples. A sharp weight loss (~54.5%) between 350 and 660 °C observed in the IrO2@MWCNT-350 °C is related to the combustion of MWCNTs in the composites. Similarly, apparently weight loss (~53.7%) of IrO2@MWCNT-400 °C can be observed in the range of 400–660 °C, which can also be ascribed to the totally decomposition of MWCNTs. In addition, the IrO2@MWCNT-450 °C and IrO2@MWCNT-500 °C show slight decline without distinct weight loss. The results not only indicated the weight percent of MWCNTs in IrO2@MWCNT composites calcined at 350 and 400 °C, but also indicated that the MWCNTs were decomposed after undergoing the calcination temperatures of 450 and 500 °C, which are consistent with the TEM, XRD and Raman analysis.

#### 2.4. XPS analysis

Further, the chemical states of the as-synthesized composites were studied by XPS. The survey spectra of Figure 5a and e indicate three obvious peaks attributed to the Ir, O, and C elements in the composites. In the case of  $IrO_2@MWCNT$  composites without calcination, the binding energies of  $Ir^{(III)}4f_{5/2}$  and  $Ir^{(III)}4f_{7/2}$  peaks were found at 64.4 and 61.4 eV, respectively, whereas, in the case of  $IrO_2@MWCNT$ -400 °C, the  $Ir^{(III)}4f_{5/2}$  and  $Ir^{(III)}4f_{7/2}$  peaks shifted to lower binding energies of 64.3 and

**Figure 5.** (a, b, c, d) High-magnification XPS spectra of IrO2@MWCNT composites, (e, f, g, h) IrO2@MWCNT-400°C and (i, j) Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C: (a, e) Survey, (b, f, j) Ir 4f, (i) Pt 4f, (c, g) O 1s and (d, h) C 1s.

61.3 eV, respectively. For the Ir(IV) 4f**7/2** and Ir(IV) 4f**5/2** peaks, the binding energies of 62.8 and 65.9 eV (Figure 5b) shifted to higher binding energies of 62.9 and 66.0 eV (Figure 5f), respectively.[13] The shifts of binding energies suggested that Ir(III) changes to Ir(IV) in the process of calcination.[33] On the other hand, the deconvolution peaks of O1s spectrum can be observed in Figure 5c and g, the binding energies of 530.2 eV can be

described to the Ir O specie and the other two peaks centered at 531.3 and 532.8 eV are attributed to the Ir hydroxide and oxygen-hydrogen bond of water, respectively. Moreover, it was noted that the peak intensity of Ir hydroxide have reduced after calcined at 400°C. Instead, the peak intensity of Ir O specie has improved, which indicates that the bonding force between Ir O bond was enhanced by calcination. In addition, the C 1s spectrum is displayed in Figure 5d and h, it can be fitted into three peaks located at 284.8, 286.3 and 287.1 eV, which can be assigned to the C C, C O and O C=O bond of functionalized MWCNTs, respectively.[34] Furthermore, it was found that the intensity of C O peak was weakened for IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, which originated from the decomposition of MWCNTs at 400°C. High-resolution XPS spectra for Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C is displayed in Figure 5i. The region relative to Pt 4f can be deconvoluted into two doublets with Pt 4f7/2 peaks centered at 71.2 and 72.3 eV, assigned to metallic Pt<sup>0</sup> and Pt<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively. Regarding the Ir 4f XPS data, the Ir 4f7/2 peaks centered at 60.9 and 62.1 eV were correspond to Ir(III) and Ir(IV) oxidation states. When compared with IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, the binding energies of Ir(III) and Ir(IV) 4f7/2 shifted toward the negative direction, which indicated the electronic structure of Ir changed after Pt decoration. Based on the above results from TEM, XRD, Raman and XPS, it can be concluded that the bimetallic IrO2 and Pt systems were formed.

#### **2.5. Electrochemical performance studies**

Electrochemical properties of the IrO2@MWCNT composites prepared at different calcination temperature were investigated by CV, LSV, Tafel and EIS measurements in 0.5 M H2SO4 solution. The OER performance was compared with that of Pt nanoparticles decorated IrO2@MWCNT-400°C. The CV curves of various samples are presented in Figure 6a. It can be seen that the broad redox peaks for all samples are due to the oxidation state transitions of Ir3<sup>+</sup>/Ir4<sup>+</sup>. The IrO2@MWCNT-350°C presents low current density, because the MWCNTs maintained well after calcined at 350°C, thus the corrosion of the MWCNTs was the main reason for the low catalytic performance. The IrO2@MWCNT-400°C shows higher current density. It is thought to result from two reasons: (i) the introduction of MWCNTs prevents agglomeration of IrO2 nanoparticles which produces high surface area of catalytic sites for excellent electrocatalytic performance; (ii) the more finer crystallite particles of active IrO2, which is beneficial for the electron and ion exchanges between the active IrO2 and electrolyte.[31] It is to be noted that

**Figure 6.** (a) Cyclic voltammograms, (b) LSV curves, (c) Tafel plots and (d) Nyquist plots of the as-synthesized samples.

the current density has reduced and also the referred anodic peak has shifted toward negative potentials with increasing calcinations temperatures from 400 to 500°C. In the case of IrO2@MWCNT-450°C, the loss of electrochemically active surface area is due to the agglomeration of IrO2 nanoparticles at 450°C. For IrO2@MWCNT-500°C, it can be explained as the IrO2 tend to grow into larger particles at 500 °C which results in the obvious agglomeration of IrO2 nanoparticles that makes the active sites reduced. Hence, MWCNTs support in IrO2@MWCNT composites revealed pronounced impact on the electrocatalytic activity for the OER performance. In addition, the effect of Pt doping on the IrO2@MWCNT composite was further explored. The conclusion is that Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C presents a CV profile similar to that of IrO2@MWCNT-400°C but shows higher current density. Therefore, with the decoration of Pt nanoparticles, obviously enhancement of electrochemical performance for OER was obtained. The LSV curves were used to investigate the OER activity of the IrO2@MWCNT composites. It can be seen from Figure 6b that the onset OER potential increased from 1.41 to 1.44 V as calcination temperature increases. The IrO2@MWCNT-350°C exhibited poor OER activity with the overpotential of 320 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . In contrast, IrO2@MWCNT-400°C clearly

exhibited the lower overpotential of 280 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , demonstrating the superior OER catalytic activity. As comparison, the OER activity was greatly reduced for IrO2@MWCNT-450°C and IrO2@MWCNT-500°C, with 308 and 321 mV for attaining 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> current density, respectively. The results suggested that the OER catalytic activity of IrO2@MWCNT-400°C possess superior electrochemical property than that of other composites. It can be ascribed to the MWCNTs bring well dispersion and large accessible active surface area for IrO2. In case of Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, the overpotential exhibit lower values than standard IrO2 (332 mV) and Pt (382 mV) with 270 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . At the same time, the OER activity of Pt/ IrO2@MWCNT-400°C is superior to that of IrO2@MWCNT composites. This enhancement of electrocatalytic performance has been ascribed to the synergistic effect for Ir Pt composite catalysts in OER mechanism. In case of IrO2@MWCNT-450°C and IrO2@MWCNT-500°C, the IrO2 nanoparticles agglomerated gradually at higher calcination temperatures, which reduce the OER catalytic activity.[35–37] The decrease of the activity should be related to fewer electrochemical surface area of the catalysts at higher temperature.

In order to follow the catalytic mechanism of the electrode reaction for OER, the Tafel plots were studied, as presented in Figure 6c. The OER mechanisms in acid medium on IrO2 surface can be described as:[38–40]

$$S + H_2O \rightarrow S - OH_{ads} + H^+ + e^- \tag{1}$$

$$S-OH_{ads} \rightarrow S-O_{ads} + H^{+} + e^{-}$$
 (2)

$$S-OH_{ads} + S-OH_{ads} \rightarrow S-O_{ads} + S + H_2O$$
 (3)

$$S-O_{ads} + S-O_{ads} \rightarrow O_2 + 2S \tag{4}$$

Where S represents the active sites of the Ir oxide,  $S-OH_{ads}$  and  $S-O_{ads}$  are adsorption intermediates. As well known, the rate determination step (rds) of OER plays a key role in the Tafel slope. When the Tafel slopes were 120, 40, 30 and 15 mVdec<sup>-1</sup>, the rds would be the reaction (1) (corresponding to the first electron transfer step), reaction (2) (corresponding to the dissociation of the O–H bond in the S-OH group step), reaction (3) (corresponding to the combination of S–OH) and reaction (4) (corresponding to the combination of S–O), respectively. The Tafel slope of  $IrO_2$ -based catalysts are in the range of 60-120 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, thus step (1) can be divided into the following two steps:  $IrO_2$ -based catalysts are in the following two steps:  $IrO_2$ -based catalysts are in the

$$S + H_2O \rightarrow S - OH_{ads}^* + H^+ + e^-$$
 (5)

$$S-OH_{ads}^* \rightarrow S-OH_{ads}$$
 (6)

Where  $S-OH_{ads}^*$  and  $S-OH_{ads}$  have the same chemical structure and the different energy state. As shown in Figure 6c, the Tafel slope for IrO2@MWCNT composites calcined at 350, 400, 450 and 500 °C are 90.5, 86.7, 88.9 and 91.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Consequently, the obtained Tafel slope values are in the range of  $60-120\,\text{mV}\,\text{dec}^{-1}$ , which indicates the rate determining step can be considered as the mixed kinetic control of (5) and (6). The IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400°C has lesser Tafel slope, which implies the preferable OER activity. A comparison of the Tafel slope of the composites with or without Pt based on the results presented in Figure 6c, the Pt/IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400 °C (85.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) displays the lowest Tafel slope to IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400 °C, meaning that the positive effect of the Pt presence on the OER activity of Ir oxide in the composites. The calculated electrochemical surface areas are 0.0945 cm<sup>2</sup>, 0.0288 cm<sup>2</sup>, 0.0402 cm<sup>2</sup>, 0.0358 cm<sup>2</sup> and 0.0134 cm<sup>2</sup> for Pt/ IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400 °C, IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT composites calcined at 350, 400, 450 and 500  $^{\circ}\text{C}$  respectively. Obviously, Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400 °C exhibits higher electrochemical surface areas, which could lead to improved catalytic activity towards OER. From the results of CV and LSV curves, it can be concluded that both the calcination temperature and the decoration of Pt nanoparticles are of great influence to the catalyst electrochemical property. With the decoration of Pt, the catalytic performance could be enhanced, which means that the amount of Ir used in the hybrid catalysts could be reduced without sacrificing the catalytic performance.

To provide further insight in the above electron transfer ability of the composites, the EIS was carried out and presented in Figure 6d. All electrodes show an incomplete semicircle, which represent the charge transfer resistance  $(R_1)$ . The EIS results were fitted via the corresponding equivalent circuit as

shown in the inset of Figure 6d. The value of R<sub>1</sub> for Pt/  $IrO_2@MWCNT-400$  °C is 74  $\Omega$  compared to 93  $\Omega$  for IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400 °C, indicating the rapid electron transfer rate in the OER process. Additionally, the charge transfer resistance of IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-450°C and IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-500°C are 114 and 343  $\Omega$ , respectively. This may be due to the decomposition of MWCNTs and agglomeration of IrO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles that lead to the decrease of electron transfer rate. These results, combining with the CV, LSV and Tafel tests, sufficiently demonstrate that Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C have a faster kinetics and a higher efficient catalytic activity for OER in acid electrolyte. Two reasons have been proposed to address the enhancement of OER performance. One is that MWCNTs act as a support to prevent agglomeration of IrO<sub>2</sub> at high calcination temperature which produces high surface area of catalytic sites; furthermore, the remained MWCNTs (by calcined at 400°C) facilitates electron transfer rate. The other one has been ascribed to the electronic as well as geometric (change in the Ir-Ir distance)

#### 2.6. Stability studies

Stability is another key parameter to determine the practicability of electrocatalysts. In order to evaluate the long-term stability of the electrodes, the initial LSVs were recorded and compared with the LSVs after 1000 cycles. The LSVs depicts that the IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400/450/500°C exhibits no obvious change after 1000 cycles, indicating stability of these electrodes. But a drastically decrease for IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-350°C is seen after 1000 cycles, which originated from the corrosion of MWCNTs during the OER. It can be seen that the Pt/ IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400 °C presents less shift of LSV which suggested better OER stability. Further, the chronoamperometry tests were carried out to evaluate of the durability of as-prepared catalysts, as shown in Figure 7f. Obviously, all the IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT electrodes showed obvious loss in OER activity at the initial 30 min, the current density reduced to 1.2, 6.6, 6.1 and 5.7 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 350, 400, 450 and 500 °C, respectively, and then reached a relatively stable state at the later stage. The IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-450 °C exhibits the lowest decline rate than that of other catalysts. This is mainly due to the decomposition of MWCNTs at higher temperature, which avoid the corrosion of the carbon support, but the IrO2 nanoparticles indicate no obvious agglomeration in this temperature. The performance obtained in Pt/IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400°C compared with that of IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-400°C indicates that the Pt has an effect on the electrochemical performance. The stability results for IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT-500°C indicates that as the calcination temperature increased, the dominant role in the catalytic performance changed from the role of MWCNTs to the agglomerated structure of IrO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles which may cause a decrease of the real active area.

#### 3. Conclusions

In conclusion, we have successfully prepared the IrO<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT composites via one-step hydrothermal method by attaching

**Figure 7.** Stability test for catalysts using LSV (a) IrO2@MWCNT-350°C, (b) IrO2@MWCNT-400°C, (c) IrO2@MWCNT-450°C, (d) IrO2@MWCNT-500°C, (e) Pt/ IrO2@MWCNT-400°C and (f) comparative chronoamperometric curves.

IrO2 to the surface of MWCNTs and the composites were subsequently calcined at 350, 400, 450 and 500°C, respectively. The IrO2@MWCNT composites were then modified with Pt nanoparticles by chemical reduction approach. Further electrochemical studies exhibit that Pt/IrO2@MWCNT-400°C required only 270 mV overpotential to deliver a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 0.5 M H2SO4. The superior electrocatalytic activity may be attributed to the MWCNTs prevent agglomeration of IrO2 which produces high surface area of catalytic sites and MWCNTs facilitates electron transfer rate and improves the migration of electrolytes; the other one is that Pt optimizes electronic structure for excellent electrocatalytic performance. Evidently, the application of MWCNTs and Pt to IrO2 can able to achieve an efficient catalyst for OER.

## **Supporting Information Summary**

The Supporting Information file contains Table S1 showing comparative OER activity of IrO2@MWCNT composite catalysts with other reported catalysts, Figure S1 showing the TEM image of blank MWCNTs, Figure S2 showing the electrochemical tests of the samples and the information of the Experimental Section.

## *Acknowledgement*

*This work was supported by the project of Excellent Youth Science and Technology Award of Xi*'*an University of Science and Technology (No. 2019YQ2-10) and the Postdoctoral Foundation from Zhejiang Yuxi Corrosion Control Corporation Co. Ltd.*

## *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** Hydrothermal Synthesis **·** IrO2 **·** Oxygen evolution reaction **·** Platinum **·** Multiwall carbon nanotubes

- [1] W. B. Guo, Z. H. Meng, N. Chen, H. Li, S. C. Cai, R. Wang, H. Tang, *ChemistrySelect* **2020**, *5*, 12131–12139.
- [2] X. Cheng, J. Zheng, J. Li, X. Luo, *ChemistrySelect* **2019**, *4*, 4271–4277.
- [3] Y. Z. Cai, W. Q. Cao, Y. L. Zhang, P. He, J. C. Shu, M. S. Cao, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2019**, *811*, 152011.
- [4] J. Chu, G. Sun, X. Han, X. Chen, J. Wang, W. Hu, I. Waluyo, A. Hunt, Y. Du, B. Song, P. Xu, *Nanoscale* **2019**, *11*, 15633–15640.
- [5] O. Diaz-Morales, S. Raaijman, R. Kortlever, P. J. Kooyman, T. Wezendonk, J. Gascon, W. T. Fu, M. T. Koper, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12363.
- [6] B. Jiang, J. Kim, Y. Guo, K. C. W. Wu, S. M. Alshehri, T. Ahamad, N. Alhokbany, J. Henzie, Y. Yamachi, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2019**, *9*, 3697–3702.
- [7] N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337–365.
- [8] S. Niu, Y. Sun, G. Sun, D. Rakov, Y. Li, Y. Ma, J. Chu, P. Xu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *2*, 3927–3935.
- [9] J. Zhang, G. Wang, Z. Liao, P. Zhang, F. Wang, X. Zhuang, E. Zschech, X. Feng, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *40*, 27–33.
- [10] M. Jahan, S. Tominaka, J. Henzie, *Dalton Trans.* **2016**, *45*, 18494–18501.
- [11] T. Reier, Z. Pawolek, S. Cherevko, M. Bruns, T. Jones, D. Teschner, S. Selve, A. Bergmann, H. N. Nong, R. Schlögl, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 13031–13040.
- [12] B. Wu, S. Lu, W. Xu, S. Cui, N. Zhao, G. He, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2017**, *699*, 489–497.
- [13] R. V. Genova-Koleva, F. Alcaide, G. Álvarez, P. L. Cabot, H. J. Grande, M. V. Martínez-Huerta, O. Miguel, *J. Energy Chem.* **2019**, *34*, 227–239.
- [14] C. Wang, F. Lan, Z. He, X. Xie, Y. Zhao, H. Hou, L. Guo, V. Murugadoss, H. Liu, Q. Shao, Q. Gao, T. Ding, R. Wei, Z. Guo, *ChemSusChem* **2019**, *12*, 1576–1590.
- [15] H. Ooka, A. Yamaguchi, T. Takashima, K. Hashimoto, R. Nakamura, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2017**, *121*, 17873–17881.

- [16] Y. Pi, N. Zhang, S. Guo, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 4424–4430.
- [17] M. Mehdipour, S. H. Tabaian, S. Firoozi, *Ceram. Int.* **2019**, *45*, 19971– 19980.
- [18] J. Li, G. Chen, Y. Zhu, Z. Liang, A. Pei, C. L. Wu, H. Wang, H. R. Lee, K. Liu, S. Chu, Y. Cui, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 592–600.
- [19] D. H. Kim, S. H. Park, J. Choi, M. H. Yi, H. S. Kim, *Mater. Sci. Eng. B* **2015**, *201*, 29–34.
- [20] J. Cheng, H. Zhang, H. Ma, H. Zhong, Y. Zou, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2010**, *55*, 1855–1861.
- [21] N. Terasawa, K. Asaka, *Sens. Actuators B* **2015**, *210*, 748–755.
- [22] X. Liu, X. Wang, Q. Han, C. Qi, C. Wang, R. Yang, *Talanta* **2019**, *203*, 227– 234.
- [23] S. Korkmaz, F. Meydaneri Tezel, İ. A. Kariper, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2018**, *754*, 14–25.
- [24] S. H. Lee, H. Lee, M. Cho, Y. Lee, *Carbon* **2017**, *115*, 50–58.
- [25] M. Khalid, P. A. Bhardwaj, A. M. B. Honorato, H. Varela, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2020**, *10*, 6420–6448.
- [26] R. Badam, M. Hara, H. H. Huang, M. Yoshimura, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2018**, *43*, 18095–18104.
- [27] Y. T. Shih, K. Y. Lee, Y. S. Huang, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2015**, *619*, 131–137.
- [28] J. Guan, D. Li, R. Si, S. Miao, F. Zhang, C. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 5983– 5986.
- [29] X. Wen, L. Bai, M. Li, J. Guan, *Mater. Today* **2018**, *10*, 153–160.

- [30] A. Papaderakis, I. Matouli, O. N. Spyridou, A. O. Grammenos, A. Banti, A. Touni, N. Pliatsikas, P. Patsalas, S. Sotiropoulos, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2020**, *877*, 114499.
- [31] H. Cao, M. Chen, L. Wu, G. Hou, Y. Tang, G. Zheng, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2018**, *428*, 861–869.
- [32] J. Gao, X. Wang, Y. Zhang, J. Liu, Q. Lu, M. Chen, Y. Bai, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *192*, 234–242.
- [33] J. Moral-Vico, S. Sanchez-Redondo, M. P. Lichtenstein, C. Sunol, N. Casan-Pastor, *Acta Biomater.* **2014**, *10*, 2177–2186.
- [34] K. Prabakaran, M. Lokanathan, B. Kakade, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, *466*, 830– 836.
- [35] B. Liu, C. Wang, Y. Chen, B. Ma, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2019**, *837*, 175–183.
- [36] Z. Zhao, Y. Xie, *J. Power Sources.* **2017**, *337*, 54–64.
- [37] J. Shen, J. Gao, L. Ji, X. Chen, C. Wu, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, *497*, 1–7.
- [38] E. Fabbri, A. Habereder, K. Waltar, R. Kötz, T. J. Schmidt, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2014**, *4*, 3800–3821.
- [39] E. Antolini, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 1426–1440.
- [40] S. Moon, Y. B. Cho, A. Yu, M. H. Kim, C. Lee, Y. Lee, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 1979–1987.

Submitted: March 28, 2021 Accepted: July 23, 2021