---
source: Chen 等 - 2024 - Trace Amount of Ir Decorated NiFe Phosphide In‐Situ Grown on Carbon Cloth as Cost‐Effective Electroc.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 38.381s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:19:46.423252Z
---

Check for updates

www.chemeurj.org

# Trace Amount of Ir Decorated NiFe Phosphide In-Situ Grown on Carbon Cloth as Cost-Effective Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Evolution Reaction

Xue Chen<sup>+</sup>,<sup>[a]</sup> Jiawei Xia<sup>+</sup>,<sup>[a]</sup> Yuxuan Tong,<sup>[a]</sup> Miaoen Zhou,<sup>[b]</sup> Yuming He,<sup>[a]</sup> Kun Wang,<sup>[a]</sup> Guangyu He,<sup>\*[a]</sup> and Haiqun Chen<sup>\*[a]</sup>

Cost-effective electrocatalysts is a key constituent to establish the balance of cost and catalytic efficiency for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) via water electrolysis in the area of energy conversion and storage. NiFe phosphide decorated with trace amount of iridium (Ir) species in-situ grown on carbon cloth was prepared by a facile wet chemistry approach followed by a phosphorization post-treatment at a relative low temperature. The optimal electrocatalyst, Ir<sub>2</sub>-NiFeP<sub>x</sub>/CC, exhibits excellent OER activity, with an low overpotential of 190 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for

alkaline OER, and a desirable long-term durability over 90 h. The outstanding OER performance stems from the structural evolution via phosphorization process, Ir decoration with more high-valence stated Ir<sup>4+</sup> species, and tight connection between individual components of the electrode, which gives rise to the strong activity to the active sites and faster reaction kinetics in the alkaline OER process. Mover, the Ir loading was as low as approximately ~1.7 wt% (0.29 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>), showing promissing propective in cost-effective OER.

### Introduction

Hydrogen production through electrolysis of water is a key technology to realize large-scale application of hydrogen energy due to its characteristics of environmentally friend-lessness, flexible production, and high product purity.<sup>[1]</sup> As one of the half reactions, the anode OER involves a four-electron transfer process, whose slow kinetics hinders the practical application of water electrolysis.<sup>[2]</sup> Therefore, designing highly active OER catalysts is of great significance for reducing overpotential and improving catalytic efficiency. The noble metals and noble metal-based oxides (such as RuO<sub>2</sub>, IrO<sub>2</sub>, etc.) are considered as ideal catalysts for OER.<sup>[3]</sup> However, their commercially widespread use is greatly restricted by the high cost and scarcity of earch reserves. To solve the issues above, it is necessary to optimize the utilization of noble metal resources, and establish the balance between cost and efficiency.<sup>[4]</sup>

As a feasible alternative to noble metal-based electrocatalysts, layered double hydroxides (LDHs) and their derivatives are star catalysts for OER via water electrolysis in recent years thanks to large interlayer distance, flexible composition and high catalytic activity. The unique two-dimensional structurd characteristic of LDH enables faster charge transfer to

[a] X. Chen, J. Xia, Y. Tong, Y. He, K. Wang, G. He, H. Chen Key Laboratory of Advanced Catalytic Materials and Technology, Advanced Catalysis and Green Manufacturing Collaborative Innovation Center, Changzhou University, Changzhou, Jiangsu Province 213164, China E-mail: hegy@cczu.edu.cn

[b] M. Zhou

WLSA Shanghai Academy, Shanghai 200136, China

- [+] Co-authors: Xue Chen and Jiawei Xia contributed equally to this work.
- Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202403022

yield accelerated kinetics for the reaction. Significant progress has been made so far on various transition metal-based LDH nanomaterials, including NiFe LDH, [6] NiCo LDH, [7] CoAl LDH, [8] CoMn LDH, [9] etc., among which NiFe LDH is currently recognized as one of the most advanced alternatives for alkaline OER.[10] However, the limited amount of active sites, poor stability and defecient conductivity result in inferior intrinsic catalytic activity compared to that of noble metal based electrocatalysts.[11] Introducing heteroatoms (transition metal ions, [12] rare metal ions, [13] noble metal ions, [14] or interlayer anions with redox activity<sup>[15]</sup>) into NiFe LDH is an effective strategy to improve the catalytic performance of NiFe LDH by means of regulating surface electronic property, as well as gaining the amount of active sites.[16] As a typical example, Ir species with a high-valence state can play an important role in weakening the adsorption of OER intermediates on the active sites, which is crucial for reducing the energy barrier of the ratedetermining step and thus accelerating the OER kinetics. [17] In addition, LDH usually exhibits a high specific surface area, enabling tight immolization and unform dispersion of noble metal based species.[18] In view of this, deposition trace amount of Ir species on the surface of NiFe LDH is expected to realize rational use of Ir resources, achieving the balance between the cost and catalytic activity. Nevertheless, the OH- ions will slowly embedded between the NiFe LDH interlayer during the OER process, inducing local acidity in the internal alkaline environment, which will cause dissolution and deterioration of the cycling performance for the NiFe LDH based catalysts. [19] Therefore, strategies to improve the OER stability of such catalysts are highly desired.

In general, converting LDH into corresponding phosphide can help to maintain the original sheet-like morphology, together with high dispersion of the noble metal-based species. By contrast, LDH derived phosphide usually contains more

active sites, showing a higher instrinsic catalytic activity.[20] As a carrier material, phosphides can regulate the electronic state of the metal species,[21] improving the catalytic activity and selectivity for OER.[22] Moverover, the strong interation between the metal and phosphide is beneficial for anchoring Ir, promoting a uniform distribution and meanwhile inhibiting dissolution and agglomeration.[23] For example, Wei et al.[24] synthesized a novel bifunctional electrocatalyst, Irn-CoMoPOx, by depositing Ir single atoms and clusters with a low loading content onto high-valence Mo6<sup>+</sup> modified CoPOx nanosheets. The Irn-CoMoPOx catalyst exhibits a significant low overpotential for OER and HER, attributed to the fact that the introduction of the high-valence stated Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> on the support can adjust the local electronic configuration of the Ir active site and optimize the binding energy of the intermediate through electron transfer, accelerating the generation of \*O and \*H2O. Mehmood et al.[25] reported a one-dimensional nickel phosphide polycrystalline heterostructure (labeled NPPH) as effective carbon-free functional carrier to anchor single-atom Ir species for water electrolysis. NPPH not only has strong alkaline water oxidation activity, but also has good stability and hydrophilicity, which is conducive to the monoatomic dispersion of Ir. The addition of Ir atoms to NPPH can rgulate the electronic structures of both individual Ir atoms and surrounding Ni atoms, where the synergistic effect benefits the improvement of the catalytic activity. At the same time, the NPPH O polycrystalline heterostructure can cooperate to optimize the valence electron state of the active site and the adsorption energy of the intermediate substance, which contributes to excellent OER performance. Therefore, designing Ir decorated metal phosphide from relevant LDH can effectively reach a high OER activity and desirable long-term stability, with a controlled Ir amount that can balance the catalytic efficiency and cost.

In this work, the Ir decorated NiFe bimetallic phosphide (Ir2- NiFePx/CC) was derived from NiFe LDH through a simple wet chemistry approach followed by a phosphorization process at a reratively low temperature. The decoration of Ir species can regulate the electronic structure of NiFePx, greatly enhancing the catalytic activity toward OER. The phosphorization process starting from NiFe LDH ensures a maintained nanoflake structure to that of Ir2-NiFePx/CC, and simultaneously realizes desirable long-term stability, achieving cost-effective OER via alkaline water electrolysis.

# **Results and Discussion**

As shown in Figure 1, NiFe LDH was first supported onto the surface of pretreated CC via a hydrothermal approach, followed by the deposition of Ir species on LDH, labelled as Ir-NiFe LDH/ CC. In this step, more active sites and higher conductivity can be realized by regulating the molar ratio of Ni/Fe components. After phosphorization by using NaH2PO2 ·H2O as the P source at a reletively low temperature (350 °C) compared to red phosphorus (550°C),[26] Ir-NiFePx/CC was obtained. Such posttreatment is expected to achieve desirable electrochemical stability and meanwhile maintain the high catalytic activity, which will be discussed in detail in the section of electrochemical test. Here it should be noted that the original CC is required to be refluxed in concentrated nitric acid to remove the surface impuroities, gaining the amount of surface oxygencontaining functional group for a better anchoring of active species, accompanying with an improved hydrophilicity. As characterized by the SEM images in Figure S1, the CC fibers show a smoother and cleaner surface without other noticeable morphological changes after pretreatment with concentrated nitric acid.

As shown in Figure S2a, b, the Ni5Fe1 LDH nanoflakes grow vertically on the surface of carbon cloth. The subsequent deposition of Ir species does not change the overall morphology, except for a slight shedding of the nanoflakes (Figure S2c, d).[27] After the post phosphorization treatment, the active species, Ir2-NiFePx (The subscript, 2, represents the volume of IrCl3 aqueous solution added during synthesis process. Detailed information can be found in the section of experimental section), wraps well on the CC fiber surface (Figure 2a and b), accompanying with a higher roughness compared to that of Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC,[28] which is expected to expose more active sites and promote faster electron transfer for an enhanced catalytic activity.[29] The Ir2-NiFePx/CC maintains a flake-like morphology (Figure 2c and d). The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image shows several obvious spacings of 0.21 and 0.28 nm, corresponding to (111) and (201) lattice planes of NiFePx phase (Figure 2e),[30] which is further confirmed according to the two diffraction rings in the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) image of Ir2-NiFePx/CC (Figure 2f). In addition, the elemental mapping images of Ir2-NiFePx/CC manifest a uniform deposition of Ir species, as well as a

**Figure 1.** Illustration of the preparation process for Ir2-NiFePx/CC electrode.

**Figure 2.** (a, b) SEM and (c, d) TEM images of Ir2-NiFePx/CC at different magnifications. (e) HRTEM image and (f) SAED pattern of Ir2-NiFePx/CC; (g) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping images of Ni, Fe, Ir, and P species.

successful phosphorization towards Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC precursor (Figure 2g).

Due to the low loading capacity of active species on CC and the inconspicuous diffraction peak, the remaining Ni5Fe1 LDH powder during the preparation process of Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC, the exfoliated Ir2- Ni5Fe1 LDH and Ir2-NiFePx powder assisted with mechanical rubbing and sonication were collected for XRD characterization. As shown in Figure 3a, the hydrothermal process gives rise to the formation of both NiOOH (PDF#73- 1520) and NiFe LDH (PDF#38-0715) phases in the precursor.[31] After the deposition of Ir species, no new diffraction peaks can be detected, demonstrating the Ir deposition with trace amount, and a negligible influence on the crystallinity of Ni5Fe1 LDH.[27] After phosphorization, the changes of the diffraction peaks suggest a successful conversion from Ni5Fe1 LDH to corresponding phosphide, Ir2-NiFePx. The diffraction peaks centered at 2 *θ* of 40.74, 44.5, 47.3 and 54.3 are indexed to the (111), (201), (210) and (300) lattice planes of Ir2-NiFePx, similar to Ni2P phase (PDF# 04–0953), while the other strong diffraction peaks are similar to Ni5P4 phase (PDF#18-0883). The FT-IR spectra of Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH, Ir2-NiFePx and Ir2-NiFePx/CC are shown in Figure S3. For Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH, the peak at 3450 cm <sup>1</sup> is attributed to O H stretching vibration, and the strong absorption peak at 1389 cm <sup>1</sup> is mainly caused by asymmetric stretching vibration inserted into NO<sup>3</sup> anion. The absorption peaks at 500~1100 cm <sup>1</sup> are attributed to M O and M O M lattice vibrations (M stands for Ni or Fe). After phosphorylation, a new peak at 1248 cm <sup>1</sup> can be detected assigning to the stretching vibration of P=O double bond. The newly observed absorption peak at 910 cm <sup>1</sup> belongs to the lattice vibration of (P M) bonds.[32] The above results indicate the formation of phosphide delivered from NiFe LDH, yielding Ir2-NiFePx/CC nanocomposites.

The chemical environment of each element in Ir2-NiFePx/CC was studied by XPS. The survey spectra reveal the existence of Ni, Fe, Ir and P as the main components in Ir2-NiFePx/CC (Figure 3b). An obvious peak assigning to Ir 4 f appears for Ir2- Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC after Ir deposition on Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC. And this signal is weakened after phosphorization (sample was labelled as Ir2-NiFePx/CC). Here it should be noted that the loading capacity of Ir species was examined as about ~1.7 wt% (0.29 mgcm <sup>2</sup> ) for both Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and NiFePx/CC by ICP analysis. As XPS collects the information of several nanometers on the sample surface, it can be inferred that the deposited Ir species migrates from the surface to the interior during phosphorization process. As for the XPS spectra of Ni 2p and Fe 2p (Figure 3c and d), the signal of Ni 2p shifts to a higher binding energy (BE) position, whereas a lower BE position shift happens to Fe 2p for Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC after Ir deposition onto Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC. Both BE shifts will further increase after

**Figure 3.** (a) XRD patterns of Ni5Fe1 LDH, Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH and Ir2-NiFePx; (b) Global XPS spectra and (c) Ni 2p, (d) Fe 2p, (e) Ir 4f, and (d) P 2p high-resolution XPS spectra of Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC, Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and Ir2-NiFePx/CC.

phosphorization treatment, indicating an electronic structure modulation that is expected to be conductive to the catalytic activity improvement.[14] The high-resolution XPS spectrum of Ni 2p for Ir2-NiFePx/CC in Figure 3c can be well deconvoluted into 6 peaks. A doublet located at the BEs of 853.8 and 871.1 eV belongs to Ni P.[33] The peaks at 857 eV (2p3/2) and 874.7 eV (2p1/2) are corresponding to Ni2<sup>+</sup>, while the last two peaks at 861.4 eV and 879.9 eV are the satellite peaks.[34] As for the highresolution XPS spectrum of Fe 2p (Figure 3d), the fitted peak at 705.4 eV belongs to Fe P, while the peaks at 711.6 and 724.7 eV represent the Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p3/2 and Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p1/2, whereas another doublets at 716.2 and 730.7 eV are indexed to the satellite peaks of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. [35] Figure 3e shows the Ir 4f XPS spectra of Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and Ir2-NiFePx/CC, where an extra peak at 67.9~68.8 eV is corresponding to Ni 3p.[36] As for Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/ CC, the main peaks at 62.0 and 65.0 eV are indexed to Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, while the others at 62.5 and 65.5 eV are assigned to Ir<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. By contrast, the fitted peaks for Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> and Ir<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> in Ir2-NiFePx/CC shift to lower BE positions. And meanwhile Ir2-NiFePx/CC shows a higher percentage for high-valence stated Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, which can help easily absorb OH or intermediates for OER and thus enhance catalytic activity.[37] The negative shift of Ir 4f in Ir2-NiFePx/CC also indicates a favorable electron transfer between Ir and NiFePx, which can enhance the metal-phosphide interaction and effectively regulate the electronic properties of metal sites with a higher intrinsic activity.[38] In addition, for P 2p highresolution XPS spectrum, the peaks at 129.7 and 130.5 eV correspond to P 2p3/2 and 2p1/2, respectively, which are assigned to the metal-P bond (Figure 3f).[39] The peak at 133.6 eV is mainly attributed to the P O bond, originated from the surface oxidation of transition metal phosphide by air.[40]

The OER performance of the catalysts was assessed through LSV. As shown in Figure S4a and b, the overpotential at the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> first decrease and then increase by varying the Ni/Fe molar ratios from 10/1 to 1/3. At the Ni/Fe molar ratio of 5/1, the Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC catalyst reaches the best OER performance, with the lowest overpotential of 250 mV *vs.* RHE and a corresponding lowest Tafal slope of 121.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> (Figure S4c). In view of this result, Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC was chosen for further modification, namely Ir deposition. As shown in Figure S5, Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC catalyst synthesized under the condition of 2 mL of IrCl3.xH2O aqueous solution added, Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC, gives rise to the lowest overpotential of 208 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with the lowest Tafel slop of 107.4 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , superior to those of Ir1-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC (224 mV, 136.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), Ir3-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC (210 mV, 118.6 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), and Ir4-Ni5Fe1 LDH/ CC (223 mV, 124.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ). However, Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC reveals an undesirable stability beneath 20 h. To solve this issue, we further modified the catalyst by means of a phosphorization post-treatment. As expected, the obtained phosphide, Ir2- NiFePx/CC, reveals the best OER activity, with an overpotential of 190 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and the lowest Tafel slop of 101.8 mVdec <sup>1</sup> compared to CC, Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC, and Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC (Figure 4a and b). In addition, the overpotentials obtained from three parallel LSV tests of the catalyst are shown in Tables S1, and it can be clearly seen that Ir2-NiFePx/CC still exhibits the lowest overpotential at current densities of 20 and 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 4c). To investigate the long-term stability of

**Figure 4.** (a) Linear sweep voltammetry curves of CC, Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC, Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and Ir2-NiFePx/CC; (b) Corresponding Tafel slope; (c) Comparison of the overpotentials of catalytic materials at current densities of 10, 20 and 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ; (d) The chronopotentiometry curve over Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and Ir2-NiFePx/CC at a constant current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for 90 h in 1 M KOH; (e) Electrochemical double-layer capacitance and (f) Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy of the different electrodes.

Ir2-NiFePx/CC, CP measurement was conducted at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , along with Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC as the reference (Figure 4d). The overpotential of Ir2-NiFePx/CC remains stable within 90 h without significant decay, whereas an significant overpotential increase occurs over Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC from 10th h. The Ir2-NiFePx/CC electrode still maintaines excellent stability within 60 h in the *i*-*t* test, as shown in Figure S6. Moreover, CV test was also measured to further prove the excellent long-term stability of Ir2-NiFePx/CC, where only a 4 mV increase of the overpotential at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> is detected after 5000 cycles, smaller than that of Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC (17 mV, Figure S7). We supplemented the performance of NiFePx/CC catalyst without Ir modification in Figure S8. Obviously, a prominent enhancement of the OER activity occurs upon the decoration of Ir species on the NiFePx/CC catalyst.

To further understand the superior OER catalytic activity of Ir2-NiFePx/CC, it is necessary to analyze the surface property involved in the electrochemical reaction. Here, electrochemically active specific surface area (ECSA) was measured according to electrochemical double-layer capacitance via CV curves at different scan rates in the non-Faraday interval.[26] Figure S9a–d shows the CV curves for different electrocatalysts at scan rates ranging from 20 to 100 mVs <sup>1</sup> between 0.90 and 1.00 V *vs.* RHE. The electrochemical *C*dl of Ir2-NiFePx/CC was calculated as 6.97 mFcm <sup>2</sup> , which is 2.1, 6.5 and 8.6 times that of Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC, Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and CC, respectively (Figure 4e). Therefore, the largest ECSA of Ir2-NiFePx/CC is able to provide more active sites for the electrochemical reaction, and thus contributes to a higher catalytic activity. EIS tests for the investigated electrodes were performed at the frequency from 10<sup>5</sup> to 0.1 Hz with an amplitude of 5 mV. As displayed in Figure 4f, the Nyquist plot of Ir2-NiFePx/CC reveals the smallest semicircle diameter among the investigated electrodes, demonstrating the lowest charge transfer resistance that is favorable to faster OER kinetics.[41] The OER activity of Ir2-NiFePx/CC catalyst in acidic and neutral media was tested in Figure S10. Ir2-NiFePx/CC shows overpotentials of 312 and 325 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at pHs of 0 and 7.4, respectively, with corresponding Tafel slops of 146.8 and 422.5 mVdec <sup>1</sup> .

Figure S11 shows the XPS spectra of Ni, Fe and Ir elements in Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC before and after OER stability test. Each species does not show noticeable changes to the chemical state, indicating an unaltered composition to Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC. As for Ir2-NiFePx/CC, we first studied its morphology after OER stability test, shown as the SEM images in Figure 5a and b. The scale-like nanoplates maintains with a larger size, and are still clearly visible. Characterized by XPS (Figure 5c and d), the fitted peaks assigned to Ni P and Fe P of Ir2-NiFePx/CC disappear after OER stability test, forming metal phosphide with redistributed electronic structure owing to the oxidation effect.[42] We checked the Raman spectra of Ir2-NiFePx/CC before and after 24-h stability test (Figure S12). After a 24-h CP cycle testing, a signal at 400~500 cm <sup>1</sup> can be detected, which can be classified as symmetrical stretching vibration of Ni OH in NiOOH converted during OER process. While the signal at 600~700 cm <sup>1</sup> is attributed to FeOOH.[43] These experimental results confirm that the OER process causes charge redistribution to form electron accumulation, accelerating Ir2-NiFePx/CC surface reconstruction, which is a prerequisite for OER to form an active phase.[44]

In Figure 5e and S13c, OER stability test for both Ir2-Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and Ir2-NiFePx/CC enables the oxidation of Ir<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, which is proved to be beneficial and important to an enhanced OER performance, as Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> can be act as highly active site in the

**Figure 5.** (a,b) SEM image of Ir2-NiFePx/CC after OER electrolysis in 1 M KOH. (c) Ni 2p, (d) Fe 2p, (e) Ir 4f and (f) P 2p of Ir2-NiFePx/CC spectrums before and after OER test.

reaction process.[17,45] The XPS spectra of P 2p only show P O signal after OER stability test, indicating the conversion of the surface component from metal phosphide to the corresponding metal phosphate (Figure 5f).[46] To gain an insight into the superior performance, we compared the XPS spectra of Ir2- Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC and Ir2-NiFePx/CC electrodes after OER stability test (Figure S13). The XPS spectra of Ni 2p and Fe 2p for Ir2- NiFePx/CC shift to a higher BE position, manifesting a more deficiency for the electron distribution, which is favorable for the adsorption of \*OH and \*O species at Ni and Fe sites to accelerate \*OOH generation, and thus accelerate the OER reaction kinetics.[47] Compared with LDH as the carrier of Ir, the strong interaction between Ir and phosphide and the intrinsic characteristics of NiFePx can increase the stability of Ir2-NiFePx/ CC against chemical corrosion, and thus improve the OER durability. Meanwhile, Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> can also serve as the active site and regulate the electron distribution of adjacent atoms, which can help to improve the OER activity and long-term stability.[48]

# **Conclusions**

In summary, trace Ir decorated metal phosphide electrocatalyst in situ supported on carbon cloth, Ir2-NiFePx/CC, was synthesized by a facile wet chemistry approach followed by a phosphorization post-treatment at a relative low temperature. The LDH delivered phosphide, NiFePx, maintains a similar nanoflake structure to that of NiFe LDH and gain the cycling durability to OER. The surface Ir species migrate into the skeleton NiFePx during the phosphorization process, yielding a modulated electronic structure for an enhanced activity towards the alkaline OER. And the increased amount of highvalence Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> further benefits the OER kinetics. The optimal Ir2- NiFePx/CC catalyst show an excellent alkaline OER performance (a low onset potential of 1.40 V *vs.* RHE, an overpotential of 190 mV at the current density is 10 mAcm –2) and desirable long-term stability without noticeable decay within 90 h, achieving a balance between the cost and catalytic efficiency. This study provides a new strategy for preparing cost-effective and stable OER electrocatalysts that shows great prospects in the commercial application of energy conversion.

# **Experimental Section**

### **Materials and Reagents**

Fe(NO3)3 ·9H2O and Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. (SCRC). CO(NH2)2 and KOH were purchased from Shanghai Lingfeng Chemical Reagent Co., LTD. Carbon cloth (CC) was supplied by Shanghai Hesen Electric Co., LTD. All the chemicals and reagents were of analytical grade and used directly without further purification unless stated otherwise.

### **Synthesis of NiFe LDH/CC**

The substrate, carbon cloth, was first pretreated in concentrated nitric acid at 60°C for 4 h, followed by washing with deionized (DI) water until neutral to remove surface impurities and meanwhile gaining surface oxygen-containing functional groups for the anchoring of active species. To prepare NiFe LDH/CC, Ni- (NO3)2 ·6H2O (0.5 mmol), Fe(NO3)3 ·9H2O (0.1 mmol) and CO(NH2)2

(2 mmol) were dissolved in 15 mL of DI water under continuous stirring until uniform. After that, a piece of carbon cloth (1×1.5 cm2 ) was immersed and the reaction mixture was shifted to a 25 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave for heating at 180°C for 12 h. After cooling down to room temperature naturally, CC supported NiFe LDH was wash with DI water and ethanol several times, and finally vacuum-dried at 60°C, labelled as Ni5Fe1 LDH/CC. By varying the molar ratios of Ni/Fe, reference samples were obtained under the same condition, marked as NixFey LDH/CC (where x/y=10/1, 5/1, 3/1, 1/1, 1/3, 1/0, 0/1, representing the molar feedings of Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O/ Fe(NO3)3 ·9H2O of 10/1, 5/1, 3/1, 1/1, 1/3, 1/0, 0/1,

### **Synthesis of Ir-NiFe LDH/CC**

respectively).

A piece of fresh-prepared NiFe LDH/CC was first put into a sample tube followed by adding 2 mL of IrCl3.xH2O solution (0.01 M). After shaking for 1 h, the sample was taken out, rinsed with DI water, and finally dried in vacuum. The sample was marked as Irx-NiFe LDH/CC, where x=1, 2, 3, 4.

### **Synthesis of Ir-NiFePx/CC**

Phosphorization was conducted in a tube furnace protected by using N2 as the inert atmosphere. NaH2PO2 ·H2O and Ir-NiFe LDH/CC (mass ratio 10/1) were placed at upstream and downstream in one porcelain boat, respectively. The heating program was set to 350 °C for 2 h with the ramping rate of 5°C min <sup>1</sup> . After cooling down to room temperature, Ir-NiFePx/CC was obtained.

### **Characterizations**

The crystalline structure and phase composition of the samples were studied by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Smartlab9) using Cu Ka radiation in the 2 *θ* range of 5–80°. Morphologies of the catalysts were investigated via transmission electron microscopy (TEM, FEI Talos F200x, 200 kV) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM, FEI Scios 2 HiVac, USA, 20 kV). The elemental compositions and chemical valence states were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Thermo Scientific K-Alpha). The actual amount Ir in the catalyst was determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry/mass spectrometry (ICP-OES/MS Agilent 7800(MS)).

### **Electrochemical Measurements**

All the electrochemical measurements were conducted on a CHI760E electrochemical workstation at room temperature equipped with a standard three-electrode system, using graphite rod, mercury/mercury oxide (Hg/HgO) electrode and catalyst loaded CC as the counter, reference and working electrode, respectively. 1 M KOH aqueous solution was served as the electrolyte. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) for material activation was conducted at a scan rate of 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> between 0 and 0.3 V. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarization curves of the catalysts were recorded from 0 to 0.8 V at a scan rate of 5 mVs 1 . Double layer capacitances (*C*dl) were calculated according to the CV curves from 0.8998 to 0.998 V *vs.* RHE at different scan rates (20, 40, 60, 80 and 100 mVs 1 ). Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) tests were performed at the frequency ranging from 10<sup>5</sup> to 0.1 Hz with an amplitude of 5 mV. The long-term stability of the catalyst at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> current density was measured by chronopotentiometry (CP). Here it should be noted that all the potentials were without *iR* compensation, and were converted to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) based on the Nernst equation: *E*RHE=*E*Hg/HgO+0.098+ 0.0592×pH.

# *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation of China (No. 22209016) and International scientific and technological cooperation program of Changzhou (CZ20220028). We also thank the Analysis and Testing Center of Changzhou University for assistance in characterizations. We thank the financial support from National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 21978026, 22078028), the Analysis and Testing Center of Changzhou University for assistance in characterizations.

# *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

# *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Alkanline oxygen evolution reaction **·** Metalphosphide interaction **·** NiFe phosphide catalyst **·** Trace Ir decoration

- [1] a) Z. Wang, C. Wei, X. Zhu, X. Wang, J. He, Y. Zhao, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA10964A) Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [1150–1158;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA10964A) b) B. Weng, X. Wang, C. R. Grice, F. Xu, Y. Yan, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA00404A) Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, [7168–7178](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA00404A); c) W. Jiang, X. Huang, W. Ke, L. Sheng, J. Li, F. Zhu, W. Cheng, Z. Zhang, Y. Lao, Y. Chen, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.171367)* **2023**, *965*, [171367](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.171367); d) S. Fu, S. Ullah Khan, R. Yang, H. Pang, C.-M. Au, H. Ma, X. Wang, G. Yang, W. Sun, W.-Y. Yu, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2024.04.057) Sci.* **2024**, *666*, [496–504.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2024.04.057)
- [2] a) T. Wen, Y. Zhao, X. Jiao, Q. Zhang, T. Zhang, X. Zhang, J. Qu, Y. Dong, S. Song, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.162845)* **2022**, *898*, 162845; b) Z. Zhang, Y. Qin, M. Dou, J. Ji, F. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *30*, [426–433](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2016.10.035); c) D. Liu, Y. Yang, J. Zhang, L. Wang, Z. Ma, L. Ren, J. Wang, B. Xue, F. Li, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.168994)* **2023**, *941*, [168994](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.168994); d) Z. Jin, A. J. Bard, *Proc. Natl. [Acad.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2002168117) Sci.* **2020**, *117*, [12651–12656;](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2002168117) e) Z. Wang, S. Shen, Z. Lin, W. Tao, Q. Zhang, F. Meng, L. Gu, W. Zhong, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2112832.
- [3] a) Y. Tan, Q. Che, Q. Li, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, [11981–11990;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.1c04472) b) J. Liu, J. Wang, B. Zhang, Y. Ruan, H. Wan, X. Ji, K. Xu, D. Zha, L. Miao, J. Jiang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, [2067–2072](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA10048E); c) M. Smiljanić, S. Panić, M. Bele, F. Ruiz-Zepeda, L. Pavko, L. Gašparič, A. Kokalj, M. Gaberšček, N. Hodnik, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 13021–13033.
- [4] Y. Jia, L. Zhang, G. Gao, H. Chen, B. Wang, J. Zhou, M. T. Soo, M. Hong, X. Yan, G. Qian, J. Zou, A. Du, X. Yao, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1700017.
- [5] X. Feng, Q. Jiao, W. Chen, Y. Dang, Z. Dai, S. L. Suib, J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, H. Li, C. Feng, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *286*, [119869.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119869)
- [6] S. H. Kim, Y. S. Park, C. Kim, I. Y. Kwon, J. Lee, H. Jin, Y. S. Lee, S. M. Choi, Y. Kim, *Energy Rep.* **2020**, *6*, [248–254.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2020.10.007)
- [7] J. Li, L. Wang, H. He, Y. Chen, Z. Gao, N. Ma, B. Wang, L. Zheng, R. Li, Y. Wei, J. Xu, Y. Xu, B. Cheng, Z. Yin, D. Ma, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [4986–4995.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4144-6)
- [8] X. Deng, H. Li, Y. Liu, J. Huang, Y. Li, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.03.224) Energy* **2021**, *46*, [21289–21297.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.03.224)

- [9] S. Tang, Y. Zhou, X. Lu, Z. Chen, Z. Huang, Z. Li, L. Tian, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2022.166415)* **2022**, *924*, [166415.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2022.166415)
- [10] Y. Zhou, H. Liu, X. Gu, X. Wu, L. Feng, *Carbon Energy* **2022**, *4*, [924–938.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cey2.206)
- [11] K. Jiang, B. Liu, M. Luo, S. Ning, M. Peng, Y. Zhao, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, F. M. F. de Groot, Y. Tan, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1743.
- [12] Y. Zhang, C.-Q. Cheng, C.-G. Kuai, D. Sokaras, X.-L. Zheng, S. Sainio, F. Lin, C.-K. Dong, D. Nordlund, X.-W. Du, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA06353C) Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [17471–17476.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA06353C)
- [13] D. Liu, J. Liu, B. Xue, J. Zhang, Z. Xu, L. Wang, X. Gao, F. Luo, F. Li, *ChemElectroChem* **2023**, *10*, e202201025.
- [14] Q.-Q. Chen, C.-C. Hou, C.-J. Wang, X. Yang, R. Shi, Y. Chen, *Chem. Commun. (Cambridge, U. K.)* **2018**, *54*, 6400–6403.
- [15] a) D. Zhou, Z. Cai, Y. Bi, W. Tian, M. Luo, Q. Zhang, Q. Zhang, Q. Xie, J. Wang, Y. Li, Y. Kuang, X. Duan, M. Bajdich, S. Siahrostami, X. Sun, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1750-9) Res.* **2018**, *11*, [1358–1368;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1750-9) b) J. Xin, H. Pang, C. J. Gómez-García, Z. Jin, Y. W, ang, C.-M. Au, H. Ma, X. Wang, G. Yang, W.-Y. Yu, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.12.145) Sci.* **2024**, *659*, [312–319.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2023.12.145)
- [16] J. M. Yu, J. Song, Y. K. Kim, J. Oh, K. Y. Kim, W. Y. Noh, W. J. Byun, J. U. Lee, C. Yang, J.-W. Jang, J. S. Lee, S. Cho, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, [5092–](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.3c01024) [5100.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.3c01024)
- [17] N. Yang, S. Tian, Y. Feng, Z. Hu, H. Liu, X. Tian, L. Xu, C. Hu, J. Yang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207253.
- [18] X. Zhang, A. N. Marianov, Y. Jiang, C. Cazorla, D. Chu, *ACS Appl. [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b02457) Mater.* **2020**, *3*, [887–895.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.9b02457)
- [19] R. Chen, S.-F. Hung, D. Zhou, J. Gao, C. Yang, H. Tao, H. B. Yang, L. Zhang, L. Zhang, Q. Xiong, H. M. Chen, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903909.
- [20] Y. Lin, Y. Pan, S. Liu, K. Sun, Y. Cheng, M. Liu, Z. Wang, X. Li, J. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *259*, [118039.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.118039)
- [21] H. Ishikawa, M. Sheng, A. Nakata, K. Nakajima, S. Yamazoe, J. Yamasaki, S. Yamaguchi, T. Mizugaki, T. Mitsudome, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, [750–757.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03300)
- [22] X. Li, W. Liu, M. Zhang, Y. Zhong, Z. Weng, Y. Mi, Y. Zhou, M. Li, J. J. Cha, Z. Tang, H. Jiang, X. Li, H. Wang, *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, [2057–2063.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b00126)
- [23] J. Wei, H. Tang, L. Sheng, R. Wang, M. Fan, J. Wan, Y. Wu, Z. Zhang, S. Zhou, J. Zeng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 559.
- [24] R. Wei, M. Liao, L. Sun, Q. Zhang, H. Zhang, L. Zhang, Z. Song, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.3c16507) Mater. Interfaces* **2024**, *16*, [7141–7151](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.3c16507).
- [25] R. Mehmood, G. Long, W. Fan, M. Li, L. Liu, F. Zhang, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.12.026) Chem.*
- **2023**, *79*, [410–417.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.12.026) [26] M. Ledendecker, S. Krick Calderón, C. Papp, H.-P. Steinrück, M.
- Antonietti, M. Shalom, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, [12361–12365.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201502438) [27] R. Fan, Q. Mu, Z. Wei, Y. Peng, M. Shen, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA03272G) Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 9871–
- [9881.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA03272G) [28] J. Ge, S. Diao, J. Jin, Y. Wang, X. Zhao, F. Zhang, X. Lei, *Inorg. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI02582E) Front.* **2023**, *10*, [3515–3524](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI02582E).
- [29] L. Tian, H. Wo, K. Wang, X. Wang, W. Zhuang, T. Li, X. Du, *J. [Taiwan](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtice.2019.01.023) Inst. Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *97*, [200–206](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtice.2019.01.023).
- [30] H. Liu, J. Gao, X. Xu, Q. Jia, L. Yang, S. Wang, D. Cao, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.137706) Eng. J.* **2022**, *448*, [137706](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.137706).

- [31] X. Liu, Z. Chang, L. Luo, T. Xu, X. Lei, J. Liu, X. Sun, *Chem. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm4040903)* **2014**, *26*, [1889–1895.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cm4040903)
- [32] a) Y. Sun, L. Wang, T. Wang, X. Liu, T. Xu, M. Wei, L. Yang, C. Li, *J. [Alloys](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.156963) [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.156963)* **2021**, *852*, 156963; b) Y. Pei, L. Huang, L. Han, H. Zhang, L. Dong, Q. Jia, S. Zhang, *Green Energy Environ.* **2022**, *7*, [467–476.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2020.10.019)
- [33] Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y. Sugahara, Y. Yamauchi, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1802442.
- [34] C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [842–846.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201608899)
- [35] a) Q. Li, Q. Chen, S. Lei, M. Zhai, G. Lv, M. Cheng, L. Xu, H. Xu, Y. Deng, J. Bao, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2022.10.130) Sci.* **2023**, *631*, 56–65; b) K. Chen, Z. Wen, P. Cai, G. Wang, S. Ci, K. Li, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *295*, [120275](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120275); c) R. Chai, T. Zhou, D. Sun, Y. Luo, J. Li, F. Wu, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.08.186) Energy* **2022**, *47*, 36129– [36138.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.08.186)
- [36] M. Wang, J.-Q. Wang, C. Xi, C.-Q. Cheng, C.-G. Kuai, X.-L. Zheng, R. Zhang, Y.-M. Xie, C.-K. Dong, Y.-J. Chen, X.-W. Du, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2100203.
- [37] X. Zheng, J. Tang, A. Gallo, J. A. Garrido Torres, X. Yu, C. J. Athanitis, E. M. Been, P. Ercius, H. Mao, S. C. Fakra, C. Song, R. C. Davis, J. A. Reimer, J. Vinson, M. Bajdich, Y. Cui, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.* **2021**, *118*, e2101817118.
- [38] X. Wang, W. Ma, Z. Xu, H. Wang, W. Fan, X. Zong, C. Li, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.04.011)* **2018**, *48*, [500–509.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.04.011)
- [39] K. Xiong, L. Yu, Y. Xiang, H. Zhang, J. Chen, Y. Gao, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2022.165234)* **2022**, *912*, [165234.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2022.165234)
- [40] M. Yang, R. Zhao, Y. Liu, H. Lin, *[CrystEngComm](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CE01621K)* **2022**, *24*, 1189–1194.
- [41] a) J. Yao, Z. Gao, Q. Meng, G. He, H. Chen, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.034) Sci.* **2021**, *594*, [621–634](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.034); b) L. Jin, Q. Wang, K. Wang, Y. Lu, B. Huang, H. Xu, X. Qian, L. Yang, G. He, H. Chen, *Dalton Trans.* **2022**, *51*, [6448–6453.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2DT00115B)
- [42] C. Guo, Q. Chen, J. Zhong, W. Peng, Y. Li, F. Zhang, X. Fan, *Ind. [Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c04643) Chem. Res.* **2023**, *62*, [4356–4363.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.2c04643)
- [43] D. Li, T. Li, G. Hao, W. Guo, S. Chen, G. Liu, J. Li, Q. Zhao, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.125738) Eng. J.* **2020**, *399*, [125738.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.125738)
- [44] J. Wu, Z. Ma, L. Yu, S. Wang, F. Yang, L. Feng, *Sci. China [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-024-2077-2)* **2024**, *67*, [2755–2766.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-024-2077-2)
- [45] F. Gu, L. Zheng, H. Wei, W. Mi, C. Zhang, Q. Su, W. Zhu, W. Lin, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2022.155008) Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *606*, [155008.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2022.155008)
- [46] Y. Li, H. Zhang, M. Jiang, Q. Zhang, P. He, X. Sun, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1702513.
- [47] M. Zhao, S. Zhang, Y. Hu, H. Xing, C. Li, W. Yuan, W. Sun, C. Guo, C. M. Li, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *51*, [998–1009.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.09.099)
- [48] M. Liu, Y. Ji, Y. Li, P. An, J. Zhang, J. Yan, S. Liu, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2102448.

Manuscript received: August 11, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: October 11, 2024 Version of record online: November 13, 2024