---
source: Chen 等 - 2024 - Construction of amorphouscrystalline Fe doped CoSe for effective electrocatalytic oxygen evolution.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 26.945s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:19:08.038734Z
---

# ChemComm

### COMMUNICATION

**View Article Online** 

Cite this: Chem. Commun., 2024, **60**, 4930

Received 27th February 2024, Accepted 31st March 2024

DOI: 10.1039/d4cc00866a

rsc.li/chemcomm

# Construction of amorphous/crystalline Fe doped CoSe for effective electrocatalytic oxygen evolution\*

Wenjuan Chen, ‡ Qian Zhang, ‡ Youzheng Zhang, Caidi Han, Jinting Wu, Jian Gao, Di Xiao-Dong Zhu\* and Yong-Chao Zhang \*\*D\*\*

Herein, amorphous/crystalline Fe-doped CoSe was synthesized (Fe-CoSe/NF), and it exhibited high oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance. The synergistic effect of the Fe dopant and the amorphous/crystalline structure is conducive to the formation of high valence Co<sup>3+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> active sites. Fe-CoSe/NF shows low overpotentials of 269 mV@50 mA cm $^{-2}$  and 280 mV@100 mA cm $^{-2}$ .

Clean and renewable hydrogen energy has become a highly competitive and promising alternative to fossil fuels. However, large-scale hydrogen production is still limited by synthetic methods, which heavily rely on steam reforming of natural gas, inevitably leading to carbon dioxide emissions. Electrochemical water splitting is an alternative and simple hydrogen production method without carbon emissions.<sup>2</sup> In particular, oxygen evolution reaction (OER) has received widespread attention due to its important role in water splitting. Because traditional OER electrocatalysts still rely on precious metals, it is necessary to design efficient and low-cost catalysts.3 Transition metal-based compounds have been widely studied as OER catalysts, and there has been new interest in the catalytic activity and stability of high valence transition metal compounds.4

In recent years, transition metals and their hydrogen/oxides, nitrides, carbides, phosphides, sulfides, borides, etc. have been considered as promising electrocatalysts for the OER.<sup>5</sup> Among different types of materials, transition metal sulfur compounds have good catalytic properties and high robustness to accelerate the OER. By contrast, transition metal selenides (TMSes) have a similar structure to the corresponding sulfides, but have a higher electrical conductivity than them. For example, MoSe<sub>2</sub> exhibits a higher intrinsic conductivity than MoS<sub>2</sub>. Compared with other substances, TMSes have some advantages, for example, a

State Key Laboratory Base of Eco-Chemical Engineering College of Chemical Engineering, Qingdao University of Science & Technology, Qingdao, China.  $\textit{E-mail: xiao-dong\_zhu@qust.edu.cn, yongchaozhang@qust.edu.cn}$ 

special layered structure, a relatively narrow bandgap and lowcost. Moreover, selenides undergo structural evolution during the OER catalytic process, accelerating the reaction by forming metal (oxygen) hydroxides.6 Therefore, TMSes are considered some of the most promising OER electrocatalysts in alkaline media and have received widespread attention in recent years.<sup>7</sup> Huang et al.8 reported an amorphous CoOx-CoSe composite directly grown on nickel foam, which has high OER performance. Yan et al.9 prepared FeSe2 nanosheets through a hydrothermal reduction method for the OER, which have a relatively low overpotential of 330 mV@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

By doping and constructing a crystalline/amorphous interface, the electronic structure of the catalyst and the binding energy of key oxygen-containing intermediates can be effectively regulated, providing more reactive sites and thus enhancing the catalytic activity.10 Dou et al.11 introduced Fe dopants and Co vacancies into atomic thick CoSe2 nanoribbons for the OER, and CoSe<sub>2</sub>-D<sub>Fe</sub>-V<sub>Co</sub> exhibited high catalytic activity. Yuan et al.12 constructed porous N-doped carbon encapsulated Fedoped CoSe2 (Fe-CoSe2@PNC/TC) on both sides of MXene, where Fe doping and well-designed multifacets can induce internal Se vacancies and electronic structure modulation to increase and enhance the active sites, thus lowering the energy barrier for the OER. The OER activity of the Fe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>(a)PNC/TC powder material was significantly improved, far better than that of the commercial IrO2. Taking inspiration from the crystal phase heterostructure, a simple synthesis strategy was developed to prepare amorphous/crystalline phase transition metal nanomaterials, and these nanomaterials may have unique properties and good application prospects. Yang et al. 13 synthesized a series of amorphous/crystalline heterogeneous Pd nanosheets with different crystallinity using a one pot wet chemistry method for catalyzing the hydrogenation of 4-nitrostyrene. The chemical selectivity and activity of the synthesized Pd nanosheets can be fine-tuned by controlling their crystallinity. Li et al.14 designed a uniform amorphous phase nanopositioning on the surface of crystalline metal oxides. Efficient charge separation and catalytic

<sup>†</sup> Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.1039/d4cc00866a

<sup>‡</sup> These authors contributed equally to this work.

Communication ChemComm

Fig. 1 (a) Schematic diagram of the synthesis process of Fe-CoSe/NF, (b) and (c) TEM images, (d) HRTEM image, and (e)-(h) TEM-EDS mapping images of Fe-CoSe/NF

kinetics for photoelectrochemical water oxidation were achieved by rational design of surface defects.

In this work, heterogeneous amorphous/crystalline Fe doped CoSe was synthesized (Fe-CoSe/NF) as a bimetallic OER self-supporting electrocatalyst by a simple and rapid one-step cyclic voltammetry (CV) electrodeposition method, which tends to expose more active sites, and it has high stability. The synergistic effect of the Fe dopant and the amorphous/crystalline heterophase can greatly enhance the OER activity. When the current density reaches 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the OER overpotentials of Fe-CoSe/NF are only 269 mV and 280 mV, respectively. The Tafel slope is as low as 38 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, and the electrochemically active surface area is 720 cm<sup>2</sup>, and the catalyst has important application potential in the field of electrocatalytic water splitting.

The synthesis of Fe-CoSe/NF was carried out using a simple one-step electrodeposition method (Fig. 1a). The microstructure of the catalyst was further studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). As shown in Fig. S1a (ESI†), it can be seen that the surface of Fe-CoSe/NF is composed of many plates, and the cracks between plates are caused by the surface stress generated by the electrodeposition process. The surface of the plate is composed of many spherical particles with a size of 100 to 300 nm. Obviously, a smaller particle size is beneficial to exposure of more active sites. In order to further analyze the effect of the surface particle structure and the composition of Fe-CoSe/NF on electrocatalytic OER performance, the Fe-CoSe particles were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Fig. 1b and c show that the Fe-CoSe particles are stacked by smaller petal-like layers. This structure is conducive to exposing more catalytically active sites, allowing them to come into full contact with the electrolyte, thereby improving the mass transfer ability for the OER process.<sup>15</sup> As shown in Fig. 1d, the white line area represents crystalline Fe-CoSe with a lattice spacing of 0.261 nm, corresponding to the CoSe (101) crystal plane. The other parts are amorphous regions. This indicates that Fe-CoSe has an amorphous/crystalline heterogeneous structure. This structure can induce abundant active

sites from amorphous components, and at the same time, the crystalline components can be used to improve the conductivity of the catalyst, which is conducive to the OER process and improves the catalytic activity. Fig. 1e-h show the energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) element mapping images of Fe-CoSe. It can be seen that Fe, Co and Se are uniformly distributed, which proves that Fe is uniformly doped into CoSe and Fe-CoSe/NF is successfully synthesized.

Fig. 2a shows the XRD pattern of the powder sample collected after ultrasonic treatment. CoSe has an obvious hump at 20-30°, indicating that CoSe has an amorphous feature. In addition, the weaker diffraction peaks of 33.7° and 62.7° correspond to the (101) and (201) crystal faces of CoSe, indicating that the synthesized CoSe has an amorphous/crystalline phase structure. Fe-CoSe has an obvious hump at 20-30°, indicating that Fe-CoSe also has amorphous characteristics. The peaks at  $44.5^{\circ}$ ,  $51.8^{\circ}$  and  $76.4^{\circ}$  are attributed to the (101) (200) and (220) crystal planes of NF. We analyze that this is caused by the stripping of nickel foam and mixing it with the material surface during the process of ultrasonic collection of the catalyst powder. The peaks were not significantly different from those of the standard samples. No diffraction peaks of FeSe were observed, indicating that Fe was doped into CoSe. The above results confirm the successful preparation of Fe-CoSe. The diffraction peaks at 33.7° and 62.7° are attributed to CoSe, and the intensities of the peaks are higher than those of CoSe, indicating that Fe doping can improve the crystallinity of CoSe, which indicates that Fe-CoSe has an amorphous/ crystalline heterophase structure. This once again indicates that Fe-CoSe has an amorphous heterogeneous structure, consistent with the HRTEM results. Fig. S2 (ESI†) shows the EDS diagram with elemental contents of Fe-CoSe, in which the atomic contents of Fe, Co and Se are 14.7 at%, 36.09 at% and 49.21 at%, respectively, which further confirm the successful preparation of Fe-CoSe/NF by electrodeposition.

Fig. 2 (a) XRD characterization of Fe-CoSe; (b)-(d) XPS spectra of Co 2p, Fe 2p and Se 3d of samples.

ChemComm

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was chosen to determine the composition and chemical state of the elements on the catalyst surface. Fig. S3 (ESI†) shows the XPS spectrum of Fe-CoSe/NF, which proves the presence of Fe, Co and Se elements on the catalyst. The electron configuration of Co species was analyzed by Co 2p spectroscopy. As shown in Fig. 2b, the Fe-CoSe/NF sample shows two main peaks of Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> at binding energies of 778.75 eV (Co<sup>3+</sup>) and 781.5 eV  $(Co^{2+})$ , respectively. Co  $2p_{1/2}$  can be divided into three peaks, at binding energies of 793.75 eV, 797.35 eV and 802.95 eV, corresponding to Co<sup>3+</sup>, Co<sup>2+</sup> and satellite peaks. Compared with CoSe/NF, the binding energy of the Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peak shows a positive shift of 0.2 eV to a higher binding energy, indicating that the doping of Fe can reduce the electron density of Co atoms in Fe-CoSe/NF, making some Co species tend to form high valence states. 16 Fig. 2c shows the Fe 2p spectra of FeSe/NF with peaks at binding energies of 711.15 eV and 713.8 eV corresponding to Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub>, attributed to Fe<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup>. The Fe-CoSe/NF sample shows two main peaks of Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub> at binding energies of 711.8 eV and 714.84 eV for Fe<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup>, respectively. Its peak at 706.95 eV is attributed to Fe. Compared with FeSe/NF, the binding energy peak of Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub> shows a significant shift to higher binding energy, and the proportion of Fe<sup>3+</sup> is significantly increased. Previous studies have shown that M-OOH species are prone to in situ production during electrochemical deposition.<sup>17</sup> We analyze that the presence of a large amount of Fe3+ is due to the production of more amorphous FeOOH. Thus, the OER process is accelerated. In addition, the amorphous/crystalline phase structure can expose more active sites. The formation of high-valent Co<sup>3+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> active substances in Fe-CoSe/NF can greatly improve its OER activity. 18 Therefore, Fe-CoSe/NF with high-valence structures may be promising OER catalysts. 19 Fig. 2d shows the spectrum of Se 3d. For Fe-CoSe/NF, the peaks at binding energies of 54.88 eV and 55.87 eV correspond to Se  $3d_{5/2}$  and Se  $3d_{2/3}$ , respectively, while the peak at a binding energy of 59.16 eV is attributed to SeOx, which is formed due to the surface oxidation of Se.

In order to study the electrocatalytic OER performance of the catalyst, a three-electrode system was used in 1 M KOH electrolyte saturated with O2. As shown in Fig. 3a and b, the overpotentials of Fe-CoSe/NF at current densities of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> are 269 mV and 280 mV, respectively, much lower than those of CoSe/NF (344 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and FeSe/NF (302 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). The performance of Fe-CoSe/NF is significantly better than that of some catalysts reported in the literature (Table S1, ESI†). As shown in Fig. 3c, Fe-CoSe/NF shows a minimum Tafel value of 38 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is smaller than those of CoSe/NF (55 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), FeSe/NF (46 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and NF (57 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). The results show that Fe-CoSe/NF has the fastest OER reaction kinetics. 1a In the CV test results at different sweep speeds, it can be seen from Fig. 3d and Fig. S4 (ESI†) that the double-layer capacitance of Fe-CoSe/NF is 28.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is larger than that of FeSe/NF (2.2 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), but CoSe/NF has the largest double-layer capacitance (188.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). According to the normalization calculation of the electrochemically active

Fig. 3 OER performance of Fe-CoSe/NF, CoSe/NF, FeSe/NF and NF samples. (a) Linear sweep voltammetry results with iR-correction, (b) comparison of overpotentials using different catalysts, (c) Tafel plot values, (d) electrochemical double-layer capacitance, (e) EIS results, and (f) stability testing through current-time chronoamperometric response of Fe-CoSe/NF

surface area (ECSA), Fe-CoSe/NF has higher specific activity compared to CoSe/NF (Fig. S7, ESI†). The intrinsic activity of Fe-CoSe can be assessed using turnover frequency (TOF). As shown in Fig. S5 (ESI†), Fe-CoSe/NF has the highest TOF compared to CoSe/NF and FeSe/NF. In particular, the presence of Fe on CoSe/NF significantly increases the TOF value, and the intrinsic activity of Fe-CoSe/NF is much higher than that of CoSe/NF. In addition, to investigate the origin of catalytic reaction active sites, we also prepared Co-FeSe/NF using the same method. As shown in Fig. S6 (ESI†), it can be seen that Fe-CoSe/NF has a smaller overpotential at a current density greater than 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. This further confirms that Fe doping can enhance the reaction activity. The calculated electrochemically active surface area of Fe-CoSe/NF is 720 cm<sup>2</sup>, much higher than that of FeSe/NF (55 cm<sup>2</sup>), indicating that Fe-CoSe/NF has more active sites. Fig. 3e shows that the  $R_{\rm ct}$ value of Fe-CoSe/NF is lower than those of CoSe/NF, FeSe/NF and NF samples, and they have lower charge transfer resistance, indicating that Fe-CoSe/NF has faster electron transfer ability at the interface. The above electrochemical results show that the doping of Fe optimizes the electronic structure of Co, thereby promoting the catalytic reaction process, and making the Fe-CoSe/ NF catalyst exhibit high OER activity.

Through a series of electrochemical tests, it can be found that Fe doping can improve the OER activity of the Fe-CoSe/NF catalyst. In order to study the effect of different Fe doping amounts on the catalytic activity for the OER, we prepared some catalysts with different Fe to Co ratios by electrodeposition, and then tested the OER properties of all samples in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte. When the Fe/Co ratio is 1:4, the Fe-CoSe/NF catalyst has the lowest OER overpotential and the highest OER activity (Fig. S4, ESI†). Stability is also an important parameter to evaluate catalytic performance. As shown in Fig. 3f we conducted stability experiments on Fe-CoSe/NF at a potential of 1.51 V (vs. RHE), and the current density did not significantly decrease during a 135 h test, indicating that the catalyst has good long-term stability.

In summary, amorphous/crystalline Fe-doped CoSe was synthesized using a simple and rapid one-step CV electrodeposition method, and the Fe-CoSe/NF exhibited high OER performance.

Communication ChemComm

The OER overpotentials of Fe-CoSe/NF were only 269 mV@ 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 280 mV@100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with a Tafel value of 38 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and a high electrochemically active surface area of 720 cm<sup>2</sup>. Moreover, the Fe-CoSe/NF can still maintain long-term stability for 135 h at a high current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. This high catalytic activity is attributed to the synergistic effect of Fe doping and the amorphous/crystalline phase structure, which favored the formation of high valence Co<sup>3+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup> active substances in Fe-CoSe/NF, and greatly improved the OER activity. This work provides a highly active and stable OER catalyst which is expected to be a potential catalyst for industrial water electrolysis.

The authors appreciate the support from the Natural Science Foundation of Shandong (ZR2022QB236, ZR2020KB011) and the Taishan Scholars Program (tsqn201909119), and the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2022M722363).

#### Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

#### Notes and references

- 1 (a) Y. Y. Li, H. R. Guo, J. Y. Zhao, Y. Zhang, L. Y. Zhao and R. Song, Chem. Eng. J., 2023, 464, 142604; (b) Y.-C. Zhang, C. D. Han, J. Gao, L. Pan, J. T. Wu, X.-D. Zhu and J.-J. Zou, ACS Catal., 2021, 11, 12485–12509; (c) Y.-C. Zhang, C. D. Han, J. Gao, J. T. Wu, X.-D. Zhu and J.-J. Zou, Chem. Eng. J., 2022, 446, 137036; (d) C. F. Li, L. J. Xie, J. W. Zhao, L. F. Gu, H. B. Tang, L. R. Zheng and G. R. Li, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2022, 61, e202116934.
- 2 (a) S. Zhang, T. Yu, H. Wen, Z. Ni, Y. He, R. Guo, J. You and X. Liu, Chem. Commun., 2020, 56, 15387-15405; (b) Z. Sun, M. Yuan, L. Lin, H. Yang, H. Li, G. Sun, X. Yang and S. Ma, Chem. Commun., 2019, 55, 9729-9732; (c) W. Yu, Z. Chen, W. Xiao, Y. Chai, B. Dong, Z. Wu and L. Wang, Inorg. Chem. Front., 2022, 9(8), 1847-1855; (d) V. Jose, V. H. Do, P. Prabhu, C. K. Peng, S. Y. Chen, Y. Y. Zhou, Y. G. Lin and J. M. Lee, Adv. Energy Mater., 2023, 13, 2301119.
- 3 (a) X.-D. Zhu, Q. Zhang, X. X. Yang, Y. N. Wang, J. T. Wu, J. Gao, J.-J. Zou, G. Wu and Y.-C. Zhang, SusMat, 2023, 3, 334-344; (b) H. Tan, B. Tang, Y. Lu, Q. Ji, L. Lv, H. Duan, N. Li, Y. Wang, S. Feng, Z. Li, C. Wang, F. Hu, Z. Sun and W. Yan, Nat. Commun., 2022, 13, 2024; (c) J. Qi, X. Shen, M. Chen, E. B. Shangguan, W. Zhang and R. Cao, Chem. Commun., 2022, 58, 10801-10804; (d) M. Lu, Y. Zheng, Y. Hu, B. L. Huang, D. G. Ji, M. G. Sun, J. Y. Li, Y. Peng, R. Si, P. X. Xi and C. H. Yan, Sci. Adv., 2022, 8, eabq3563;

- (e) Z. H. Pei, H. B. Zhang, Z. P. Wu, X. F. Lu, D. Y. Luan and X. W. Lou, Sci. Adv., 2023, 9, eadh1320.
- 4 (a) Q. Fu, J. Han, X. Wang, P. Xu, T. Yao, J. Zhong, W. W. Zhong, S. W. Liu, T. L. Gao, Z. H. Zhang, L. L. Xu and B. Song, Adv. Mater., 2021, 33, 1907818; (b) L. Li, X. J. Cao, J. J. Huo, J. P. Qu, W. H. Chen, C. T. Liu, Y. F. Zhao, H. Liu and G. X. Wang, J. Energy Chem., 2023, 76, 195-213; (c) M. H. Zhao, Y. N. Wang, W. L. Mi, J. T. Wu, J.-J. Zou, X.-D. Zhu, J. Gao and Y.-C. Zhang, Electrochim. Acta, 2023, 458, 142513.
- 5 X. Peng, Y. J. Yan, X. Jin, C. Huang, W. H. Jin, B. Gao and P. K. Chu, Nano Energy, 2020, 78, 105234.
- 6 (a) Z. P. Wu, H. B. Zhang, S. W. Zuo, Y. Wang, S. L. Zhang, J. Zhang, S. Q. Zang and X. W. Lou, Adv. Mater., 2021, 33(40), 2103004; (b) S. W. Zuo, Z. P. Wu, G. K. Zhang, C. L. Chen, Y. F. Ren, Q. Liu, L. R. Zheng, J. Zhang, Y. Han and H. B. Zhang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2024, 63, e202316762.
- 7 (a) Z. W. Fang, L. L. Peng, H. F. Lv, Y. Zhu, C. S. Yan, S. G. Wang, P. Kalyani, X. J. Wu and G. H. Yu, ACS Nano, 2017, 11(9), 9550-9557; (b) S. Hyun, V. Ahilan, H. Kim and S. Shanmugam, Electrochem. Commun., 2016, 63, 44-47.
- 8 X. J. Xu, P. Y. Du, Z. K. Chen and M. H. Huang, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 10933-10939.
- 9 R. Gao, H. Zhang and D. P. Yan, Nano Energy, 2017, 31, 90-95.
- 10 J. H. Ren, Y. M. Du, Y. L. Wang, S. G. Zhao, B. Yang, B. Li and L. Wang, Chem. Eng. J., 2023, 469, 143993.
- 11 Y. H. Dou, C. T. He, L. Zhang, H. J. Yin, M. Al-Mamun, J. M. Ma and H. J. Zhao, Nat. Commun., 2020, 11, 1664.
- 12 Y. X. Yuan, Y. Lian, T. Yu, Y. H. Qu, C. L. Yuan and M. M. Gao, Appl. Phys. Lett., 2022, 121, 173902.
- 13 N. L. Yang, H. F. Cheng, X. Z. Liu, Q. B. Yun, Y. Chen, B. Li, B. Chen, Z. C. Zhang, X. P. Chen, Q. P. Lu, J. T. Huang, Y. Huang, Y. Zong, Y. H. Yang, L. Gu and H. Zhang, Adv. Mater., 2018, **30**, 1803234.
- 14 Y. K. Li, M. Je, J. Kim, C. K. Xia, S. H. Roh, W. So, H. Lee, D. H. Kim, S. M. Cho, J. W. Bae, H. Choi and J. K. Kim, Chem. Eng. J., 2022, 438, 135532.
- 15 G. L. Li, X. Y. Qiao, Y. Y. Miao, T. Y. Wang and F. Deng, Small, 2023, 19(28), 2207196.
- 16 J. Y. Zhang, Y. Yan, B. B. Mei, R. J. Qi, T. He, Z. T. Wang, W. S. Fang, S. Zaman, Y. Q. Su, S. J. Ding and B. Y. Xia, Energy Environ. Sci., 2021,
- 17 J. D. Chen, F. Zheng, S. J. Zhang, A. Fisher, Y. Zhou, Z. Y. Wang, Y. Y. Li, B. B. Xu, J. T. Li and S. G. Sun, ACS Catal., 2018, 8, 11342-11351.
- 18 (a) Y. Y. Zhai, X. R. Ren, Y. Sun, D. Li, B. L. Wang and S. Z. Liu, Appl. Catal., B, 2023, 323, 122091; (b) M. S. Burke, M. G. Kast, L. Trotochaud, A. M. Smith and S. W. Boettcher, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2015, 137, 3638-3648; (c) J. Y. Zhang, Y. Yan, B. B. Mei, R. J. Qi, T. He, Z. T. Wang, W. S. Fang, S. H. Zaman, Y. Q. Su, S. J. Ding and B. Y. Xia, Energy Environ. Sci., 2021, 14, 365-373.
- 19 K. Y. Zhu, T. Wu, Y. Zhu, X. N. Li, M. R. Li, R. F. Lu, J. H. Wang, X. F. Zhu and W. S. Yang, ACS Energy Lett., 2017, 2(7), 1654-1660.