---
source: Chen 等 - 2022 - Modulating the Electronic Structure of RuO2 through Cr Solubilizing for Improved Oxygen E.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 44.012s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:17:45.913958Z
---

**www.small-methods.com**

# **Modulating the Electronic Structure of RuO2 through Cr Solubilizing for Improved Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Haixin Chen, Xiaofeng Zhang, Shipeng Geng, Shuqin Song,\* and Yi Wang\**

**Hydrogen production from water electrolysis is important for the sustainable development of hydrogen energy. Nevertheless, the naturally torpid property of anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) kinetics and poor stability of its catalysts significantly restrict the development of electrochemical water splitting. Here, a Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 electrocatalyst is synthesized, which reveals excellent OER activity with the overpotential of only 195 mV at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and excellent stability with the potential increase of merely 5.3 mV after 20 h continuous OER test in acidic media. Theoretical calculations reveal that the solubilizing of Cr into RuO2 could adjust the electron distribution, making the d-band center of Ru far away from the Fermi level. This behavior reduces the binding energy with Ru and O and accelerates the rate-determining step of OER (i.e., the formation of \*OOH), thereby increasing OER activity. In addition, the incorporation of Cr increases the energy of oxygen defect formation and reduces the participation of lattice oxygen, thus improving the stability of the catalyst. This research furnishes a feasible policy for the development of highly active and stable catalysts in acidic media by regulating the electronic structure of RuO2.**

#### **1. Introduction**

The energy shortage and climate worsening caused by the consumption of fossil fuels have become urgent problems impeding mankind's progress in the new century.[1] Hydrogen (H2) is the most viable energy alternative to conventional fuels with cleanliness, high calorific value, and renewability.[2] Combining renewable energy sources such as solar and wind with water electrolysis for H2 production is considered as the most promising technology to utilize new energy sources and reduce carbon emissions.[3] H2 production in acidic media has a higher reaction rate and fewer impurities than that in alkaline water splitting.[4] However, the adsorption/desorption and bonding/ debonding steps in the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) of

H. Chen, X. Zhang, S. Geng, S. Song, Y. Wang The Key Lab of Low-Carbon Chemistry and Energy Conservation of Guangdong Province PCFM School of Chemical Engineering and Technology School of Materials Science and Engineering Sun Yat-sen University Guangzhou 510275, China E-mail: stsssq@mail.sysu.edu.cn; wangyi76@mail.sysu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202200636.

**DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202200636**

water splitting in acidic media are complex and their electrocatalytic kinetics are sluggish with high potential.[5]

In addition, the electrocatalysts with excellent OER performance in alkaline media, such as FeNi,[6] Co3O4, [7] and NiS2, [8] are prone to corrosion in acidic media and are not suitable as catalysts for water splitting in acidic environment. Some Ir-based OER electrocatalysts with excellent activity and durability in acidic electrolytes have been recently reported,[9] including IrO*x*/SrIrO3, [10] IrNiO*x*, Irbased chalcocite,[12] and pyrochlore structured Ir-based oxides.[13] Unfortunately, the scarcity of Ir has severely hindered the industrial application of proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzers.[14] On the contrary, compared with the high price of IrO2, RuO2 seems to be a perfect catalyst for acidic OER due to its moderate oxygen intermediate binding energy and unique electronic structure, which has

high activity in acidic media.[15] However, the reported OER performance of RuO2 catalysts is still far away from commercialization. Besides, due to the high price of precious metals, reducing their loading is necessary for large-scale industrialization.[16] Therefore, a special design of RuO2 catalyst is required to further improve its OER activity and stability.

Usually, in the field of catalysis, two main strategies are used to improve the activity of catalysts: 1) designing the catalyst structure to expose more active sites, and 2) changing the electronic structure of the catalysts to modulate the adsorption of intermediates, which in turn enhances the intrinsic activity of each active site. As a common sense, the surface electronic structure is the main factor affecting the catalyst activity, and the incorporation of heteroatoms can modulate the intrinsic electronic structure of the catalyst active sites.[17] According to the d-band theory, the d-band center (*ε*d) of the active sites in the catalysts can be adjusted by doping with foreign atoms to optimize the adsorption free energy of the intermediates and eventually regulate the performance of the catalysts.[18] For RuO2, the introduction of heteroatoms with ionic radii smaller than Ru4<sup>+</sup> can regulate the electron distribution in the d orbitals, thus modulating the OER activity.[19] For example, Chen and coworkers reported that Mn doping for RuO2 changed the electronic structure of Ru and thus improved the OER activity.[20] Over et al. investigated the replacement of RuO2 surface atoms by Cr, Ir, Mn, V, Zr, Au, Rh, Co, and Pd by density functional theory (DFT) calculations and found that Cr and Ir substitution

small

2366908, 2022, 9, Downloaded from https://onlinelbray.w.ieley.com/6/10/10/20/3mid.20200636 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/20/26]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiely.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for uses of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-methods.com

could significantly reduce the bond strength of Ru to O in the active site, which enhanced the RuO2 activity. [21] Chen's group prepared a Cr-Ru oxide solid solution using MIL-101 (Cr) as a template, and Cr could tune the electronic structure of RuO<sub>2</sub> to enhance the catalyst performance. [22] Although considerable progress has been made in Ru-based catalyst activity, the in-depth study of catalyst stability is still lacking. Furthermore, their stability still does not meet the needs of practical applications, so it is necessary to improve the durability of RuO<sub>2</sub>. The excessive oxidation of Ru leads to the formation of soluble Ru, which is the main reason for the decrease in the stability of Rubased catalysts in acidic media. To prevent the excessive oxidation of Ru, the oxidation energy barrier of lattice oxygen (lattice O) should be increased by adjusting the electronic structure of RuO<sub>2</sub>. For example, Zhang et al. used codoping of W and Er to tune the electronic structure of RuO2, which not only enhanced the OER activity but also improved the oxygen defects (Vo) formation energy and in this way enhanced the stability of the catalyst.<sup>[23]</sup>

Here, we try to incorporate Cr into RuO<sub>2</sub> by the sol-gel method, which eliminates the preparation and removal of the template and small nanoparticles can be easily obtained. The incorporation of Cr exposes more active sites and simultaneously modulates the electronic structure of the catalyst to avoid excessive oxidation of Ru. DFT calculations reveal that the reaction energy barrier of lattice O in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is enhanced by solubilizing Cr to avoid the formation of highly valent and soluble Ru species. The chronoamperometry measurement shows that Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> could be stable for at least 20 h with the potential increase of merely 5.3 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 0.5 м H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>. The band center of Ru 4d is changed by incorporating Cr, which not merely reduces the free energy of RuO2 adsorption intermediates but also improves the OER activity. The overpotential  $(\eta)$  of the best-performing Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is only 195 mV, and the Tafel slope is 62.15 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. Furthermore, adopting Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> as the anode of the PEM electrolyzer possesses desirable activity while maintaining stability under high current conditions. This work not only prepares a new kind of RuO2-based catalysts in acidic electrolytes but also provides an in-depth mechanism comprehension for improving the stability and activity of OER by modulating the electronic structure.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The preparation route of catalyst is shown in **Figure 1a**. The Ru and Cr binary precursors were first synthesized by the solgel method. Then, the resulting precursors were further annealed at 500 °C for 1 h in air to synthesize  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  solid solution. The energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) analysis shows a Ru/Cr ratio of 0.58:0.42 (Figure S1a, Supporting Information), which roughly agrees with the initial feeding ratio. Afterward, X-ray diffraction (XRD) characterizations were carried out to study the phase composition and crystal structure of this catalyst. As shown in Figure S2 in the Supporting Information, the XRD patterns of  $RuO_2$  and  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  show the typical rutile-type structure (PDF#: 40-1290) with the dominant (110) peak. Notably, the XRD patterns of  $RuO_6Cr_{0.4}O_2$  shift to

higher angles, indicating that Cr has been successfully solubilized into RuO<sub>2</sub>.<sup>[24]</sup> While, the peak positions of Raman spectra do not change, manifesting that the solubilized structure is still rutile (Figure S3, Supporting Information).

The structure of the  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  catalyst is further studied by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The morphology of  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  is small nanoparticles as clearly seen from Figure 1b,e. The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) exhibits that the  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  catalyst possesses (110), (101), and (211) facets, consistent with the above XRD results (Figure 1c). The fast Fourier transform (FFT) and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) indicate that  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  crystals possess a facet along (110) direction (3.198 Å), which is the main active plane of  $RuO_2$  (Figure 1d). The EDS mapping images (Figure 1e–h) display the uniform distribution of Cr, Ru, and O in  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$ . The above results jointly indicate that the  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  catalyst has been successfully synthesized.

Subsequently, the chemical states and compositions of specimens were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Compared with those of RuO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 2a), the XPS spectra of Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> possess additional Cr 2p peaks, indicating the successful incorporation of Cr into RuO2 (Figure 2b). In addition, since the XPS peak of Ru 3d overlaps with C 1s, and C is ubiquitous as well as difficult to remove, it is not suitable to employ Ru 3d to identify Ru species. [26] The XPS peaks of Ru 3p overlap less with other elements and have high intensity, so it is becoming an important evaluator for identifying Ru species in the specimens. From Figure 2c, it is found that the Ru 3p spectra for RuO<sub>2</sub> and Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> can be separated into two forms. The binding energies of Ru4+ are located at ≈463 (Ru 3p<sup>1/2</sup>) and ≈485 eV (Ru 3p<sup>3/2</sup>).<sup>[27]</sup> While the binding energies at  $\approx$ 466 (Ru 3p<sup>1/2</sup>) and  $\approx$ 488 eV (Ru 3p<sup>3/2</sup>) belong to the corresponding satellite peaks. [28] The Ru 3p<sup>3/2</sup> for Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> shifts 0.19 eV to a lower binding energy compared with that of RuO2, demonstrating a slightly lower valence state of Ru in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> than Ru<sup>4+</sup>. In order to compare the chemical state of Cr in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, the CrO<sub>2</sub> was chosen as a control group. For the Cr 2p core level spectra (Figure S4, Supporting Information), three peaks can be observed in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and CrO<sub>2</sub>. The peaks located at ≈575 and ≈578 eV belong to Cr<sup>3+</sup> and Cr6+, respectively,[29] which implies the presence of small amounts of Cr3+ and Cr6+ in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and CrO<sub>2</sub>. The main peak occurs at ≈576.0 eV, corresponding to Cr<sup>4+</sup>.[30] Compared with CrO<sub>2</sub>, the Cr<sup>4+</sup> peak position of Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is shifted by 0.38 eV toward the high binding energy, indicating that the electron density of Cr in RuO2 is reduced, which also indicates the existence of electronic interaction between Cr and Ru. Besides, the O 1s spectra of Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> and RuO<sub>2</sub> in Figure 2d show three peaks at 529.9, 531.3, and 532.7 eV, belonging to lattice O, surface adsorbed hydroxyl groups, and surface adsorbed H<sub>2</sub>O, respectively.<sup>[31]</sup> Compared with RuO<sub>2</sub>, the lattice O peak in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is shifted by 0.23 eV toward the high binding energy (Figure 2d), indicating that O 1s is positively charged.<sup>[32]</sup> This result also suggests that the interaction between Ru and Cr is carried out through bridging O.[33] From the above analysis, it can be inferred that part of the electrons in O atoms are diverted to Ru atoms because of the incorporation of Cr in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub>, confirming the electron interaction between Ru, Cr, and O. Therefore, the presence of Cr can profoundly

**Figure 1.** The synthesis flow route and structural characterizations of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2. a) Schematic illustration of preparation process of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2. b,c) TEM and SAED images of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2, respectively. d) HRTEM image and corresponding FFT patterns (inset). e–h) high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopic (HAADF-STEM) image and corresponding EDS elemental mapping of f) Ru, g) O, and h) Cr.

alter the local electronic structure of Ru and enhance the Ru–O bonding interactions.

The OER properties of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 were studied in a threeelectrode system with carbon cloth (CC) as the substrate and 0.5 m H2SO4 aqueous solution saturated with O2 as electrolyte. As shown in **Figure 3**a,b, Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 exhibits excellent OER activity with a *η* low to 195 mV at 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and small Tafel slope (62.15 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ). To further contrast the inherent catalytic activity, the turnover frequency (TOF) based on the total noble metal loading is calculated (Figure S5, Supporting Information). At *η* = 230 mV, the TOF of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 (0.01373 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) is nearly 55 times higher than that of RuO2 (0.00025 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ). In addition, the activity of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 is also better than that of commercial IrO2 (Figure S6, Supporting Information), with the *η* of 195 mV, much higher than that of IrO2 (280 mV).

Taking into account the important influence of electron transfer rate on electrocatalytic activity, it is desired to prepare catalysts with high electrical conductivity.[34] Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were further applied at 1.4 V to reveal the electron transfer property during the OER process. As shown in Figure 3c, all of the EIS spectra show depressed semicircle, indicating the main charge transfer process related to the reaction impedance between electrode and solution. According to the fitting results of equivalent circuit, Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 has the minimum value of charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) (just 5.43 Ω), revealing that incorporating Cr into RuO2 nanocrystals can effectively accelerate the electron transfer efficiency and improve the reaction kinetics. In addition, the significantly higher *R*ct of Cr2O3 is due to the passive state of OER at 1.4 V, indicating the rather worse activity of Cr2O3.

To reveal the origin of OER activity of electrocatalyst, the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) was indirectly evaluated by the double layer capacitance in the non-Faraday region. As

**Figure 2.** XPS characterization. The wide XPS wide-scan for a) RuO2 and b) Ru0.6Cr0.4O2. c) Ru 3p and d) O 1s spectra for RuO2 and Ru0.6Cr0.4O2.

listed in Table S1 and Figure S7 in the Supporting Information, Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 possesses a much larger ECSA (777.43 cm2) than other samples, originating from its much more exposed active sites. Meanwhile, linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves normalized with ECSA are also used to compare the OER activity of different catalysts (Figure 3d). Moreover, Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 exhibits a higher current density under the same applied potential, exhibiting the highest intrinsic activity. It should be noted that the OER activity of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 is also superior to that of most recently reported catalysts in the acidic electrolyte (Figure 2e and Table S2, Supporting Information), indicating that Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 is indeed a promising OER catalyst in acidic media.

Due to the highly corrosive and oxidative properties of acidic environment, stability is also a key factor in evaluating catalyst performance closely related to the large-scale application. In this work, the stability of catalyst was evaluated with *η* difference (Δ*η* = *η*final – *η*initial) before and after the stability test by chronopotentiometry technique.[35] As seen in **Figure 4**a,b, the chronopotentiometry curve of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 exhibits high stability over 20 h with just a slight increase of Δ*η* = 5.3 mV. In contrast, a large increase of *η* (Δ*η* = 57.4 mV) could be clearly seen for RuO2 after the 20 h stability test. In addition, the TOF of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 just decreases by 1.46% (from 0.01373 to 0.01349 s−<sup>1</sup> ), while that of RuO2 attenuates by 40% (from 0.00256 to 0.00148 s−<sup>1</sup> ) (Figure 4c). In order to monitor the stability of the Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 under OER conditions, we gauged the ion solubility in the electrolyte during the OER process by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The results show that only slight dissolution of Ru and Cr ions occurs during the reaction, demonstrating the excellent stability of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2. All of the above results show that Cr incorporation not only helps to expose more active sites and thus improves the intrinsic activity of the catalyst but also enhances the stability of RuO2. Hereafter, a PEM electrolyzer was assembled to evaluate the performance of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 catalyst (Figure 4e). The steady-state LSV curve in Figure S9 in the Supporting Information indicates the high activity of this catalyst even in two-electrode system. In addition, the Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 electrocatalyst could be stably operated in the PEM electrolyzer after applying a constant current of 0.1 A cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure 4d), further confirming the great potential of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 for commercial applications. However, compared with commercial IrO2, the stability in the PEM electrolyzer still needs to be further improved to meet the commercial requirements (Figure S10, Supporting Information).

Furthermore, a series of characterizations were executed to minutely explore the structure evolution and chemical states of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 after OER stability test. The chemical states of RuO2 and Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 after 20 h stability test were analyzed by XPS (Figure S11, Supporting Information). For Ru 3p of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2, the peak of 463.31 eV does not significantly shift after stability measurement, indicating no chemistry and structure change for Ru during OER measurement (**Figure 5**a). In contrast, the Ru 3p peak of RuO shifts positively about 0.37 eV (from 463.52 to 463.89 eV), indicating the lost electrons and the transition to a higher valence state of Ru (Figure S12a, Supporting Information). This state of Ru may lead to defects and Ru dissolution, thus becoming harmful to both activity and stability of the catalyst. Additionally, the weak bonding of lattice O has been found to be directly participated in OER, forming more soluble sub-stable and activated complexes.[36] The ratio of adsorbed OH to lattice O can reflect the extent to which lattice O participates in the lattice O oxidation mechanism (LOM) in the catalyst.[37] The area ratio of the adsorbed OH to lattice O after stability measurement increases by 17.27% in the case of

Figure 3. OER activities of samples in 0.5 m  $H_2SO_4$  electrolyte on CC. a) The linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> corrected with *iR* and normalized with the geometric area. b) Comparison of corresponding Tafel slopes. c) EIS Nyquist plots at 1.4V and the equivalent circuit as shown in the figure used for fitting. d) Comparison of LSV curves normalized by ECSA. e) Comparison of *η* values of recently reported electrocatalysts and  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in acidic media.

Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> compared with that of RuO<sub>2</sub> (304%) (Figure S12b, Supporting Information), which also indicates that there is less surface oxygen involving oxygen participation mechanism (LOM) in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub>. Besides, the positive shift of Cr<sup>4+</sup> in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> after OER stability test indicates the positively charged state of Cr in Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> (Figure S13, Supporting Information). In general, these electronic state transitions are mainly due to the surface rearrangement of Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> during the acidic OER processes. Meanwhile, some electrons are transferred from Cr atoms to Ru atoms after surface rearrangement, realizing the charge balance among Ru, Cr and O. Similar phenomena have been observed for IrOx/SrIrO3 and  $W_{0.2} Er_{0.1} Ru_{0.7} O_{2-\delta}$  in acidic OER.[10,23] It is noteworthy that Ru 4d remains Ru<sup>4+</sup> after the electronic charge redistribution. Therefore, the charge redistribution among Ru, Cr, and O leads to the enhanced local interaction of Ru-O-Cr, and in this way represses the involvement of lattice O during the OER process, thus achieving the long-term stability of  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  in acidic OER.

The structure and composition of  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  catalyst after the OER stability test were investigated by TEM. The structure of  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  keeps unchanged and still consists of nanoparticles as observed in Figure 5c. The SAED (Figure 5d) exhibits that  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  remains a rutile structure after the OER stability test. Meanwhile, the HRTEM shows that the spacing of the (110) plane is also kept at 3.184 Å, which indicates that the structure of the catalyst remains intact after acidic OER stability test. Elemental mapping of  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  shows that Ru, Cr, and O remain uniformly distributed in the sample (Figure 5f–i). EDS analysis shows a Ru/Cr ratio of 0.62:0.38 (Figure S1b, Supporting Information), which can be ascribed to the dissolution of some Cr during OER. The above results can effectively illustrate that solubilizing Cr in  $RuO_2$  not only improves the OER activity but also prolongs its durability.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-methods.com**

**Figure 4.** The long-term stability study of OER and PEM electrolyzer. a) Chronopotential curves at a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 for 20 h in a half cell in 0.5 m H2SO4 on CC. b) LSV curves of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 and RuO2 before and after continuous OER test on CC. c) TOF results of (b) at *η* = 230 mV. d) The chronopotential curve of PEM electrolyzer operating at 0.1 A cm−<sup>2</sup> for 12 h (inset: PEM reaction device). e) Schematic diagram of the PEM electrolyzer.

The influence of Cr on catalytic performance was studied by changing the feeding molar ratios of Ru/Cr. The XRD patterns with different Ru/Cr molar ratios are shown in Figure S14 in the Supporting Information. Since the radius of Cr4+ ion (0.0055 nm) is smaller than that of Ru4<sup>+</sup> ion (0.0620 nm), the angle of XRD diffraction peaks increases with the increase of Cr content. As shown in Figure S15 in the Supporting Information, TEM images reveal that the prepared catalysts of Ru*x*Cr1−*<sup>x</sup>*O2 with different Cr contents are composed of small nanoparticles and the average particle size of Ru*x*Cr1−*<sup>x</sup>*O2 (≈9–13 nm) is smaller than that of RuO2 (18.6 nm) and Cr2O3 (51.3 nm). Moreover, EDS analysis shows that the Ru/Cr ratios roughly agree with the initial feeding ratios (Figure S16, Supporting Information).

2366968, 2022, 9, Downloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/do/1/0.1002/smtd.202200636 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0]/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library on [0]/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library on [0]/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/ems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Common Library on [0]/01/2026].

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-methods.com

Figure 5. Morphology and structure characterizations for  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  after 20 h stability test. a) Ru 3p spectra; b) O 1s spectra; c) TEM image; d) SAED image; e) HR-TEM image and corresponding FFT patterns (inset); f-i) HAADF-STEM micrograph and corresponding EDS elemental mapping of Ru (g), O (h), and Cr (i).

Meanwhile, a series of electrochemical methods were adopted to study the difference between Ru<sub>x</sub>Cr<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>2</sub> samples. As can be seen, the OER activity of  $Ru_xCr_{1-x}O_2$  is highly related to the ratio of Ru/Cr. With the increase of Cr content, the  $\eta$  of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> first decreases and then increases (Figure S17a, Supporting Information). To eliminate the effect of CC on material properties, the tests were performed using glassy carbon electrodes. The experimental results are consistent with those tested on CC ((Figure S18, Supporting Information). Notably, the OER activity of Ru<sub>x</sub>Cr<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>2</sub> is still higher than that of RuO<sub>2</sub> with a small amount of Cr solubilizing, highlighting the key role of Cr ions in enhancing OER activity. Simultaneously, Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> exhibits the fastest reaction kinetics with a small Tafel slope of 62.15 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and the highest TOF value of 0.01373 s<sup>-1</sup> at  $\eta = 230$  mV (Figure S17b,c, Supporting Information). In addition, at  $\eta = 230$  mV, Ru<sub>0.6</sub>Cr<sub>0.4</sub>O<sub>2</sub> possesses the highest mass activity, reaching 46.71 A g<sup>-1</sup> <sub>Ru</sub>, significantly higher than that of RuO<sub>2</sub> (7.13 A g<sup>-1</sup> Ru) and other Ru<sub>x</sub>Cr<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>2</sub> (Figure S17d and Table S3, Supporting Information). The EIS measurements further reveal the activity of Ru<sub>x</sub>Cr<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>2</sub> (Figure S17e, Supporting Information). According to the fitting results of equivalent circuit, the R<sub>ct</sub> first increases and then decreases with the increase of Cr content. Among the investigated samples,  $Ru_{0.6}Cr_{0.4}O_2$  possesses the smallest  $R_{ct}$ , which

is more conducive to charge transfer and thus improves the OER performance.

Then, ECSA is used to reveal the intrinsic activity of  $Ru_xCr_{1-x}O_2$  (Figures S7 and S19, Supporting Information). As listed in Tables S1 and S5 in the Supporting Information, the calculated  $C_{\rm dl}$  shares a similar trend to the TOF and mass activity. Meanwhile, LSV curves normalized with ECSA are also used to compare the OER current of different catalysts (Figure S17f, Supporting Information). Clearly, the same trend could be observed. In conclusion, when the Ru/Cr molar ratio is 0.6:0.4, the catalyst possesses the best activity.

Regarding the reaction process of OER in acidic media, according to literatures, the deep OER mechanisms could be mainly summarized in two paths according to the origin of oxygen molecules in the products, namely, LOM and adsorption evolution mechanism (AEM). Figure 6 reveals the different reaction pathways of OER. For LOM, lattice O is involved in OER and oxygen with lattice O atoms is produced (Path III). Due to the generation of oxygen,  $V_{\rm o}$  is formed in the catalyst crystal structure, which enhances the catalyst's OER activity. However,  $V_{\rm o}$  on the catalyst further accelerates the Ru exposure, which accelerates its oxidation in OER, leading to the formation of highly soluble Ru derivatives (such as RuO<sub>4</sub>). Therefore, with the release of oxygen, the catalyst structure is destroyed

**Figure 6.** Schematic diagram of OER mechanism in acidic media. a) The diagram of LOM and AEM pathways of RuO2. b) The reaction paths of RuO2 for LOM. c) The reaction paths of RuO2 for AEM (\* represents the adsorption sites on the RuO2 surface).

and the stability of the electrode is reduced. In AEM, the \*OOH adsorbed on the active sites is oxidized to generate oxygen. Compared with the LOM process, lattice O is not involved in the AEM process, and the structure of catalysts remains intact so that the catalyst possesses good stability.

In view of the way of OER in the acidic electrolyte, DFT calculations were used to further understand why Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 catalysts possessed higher intrinsic OER activity and stability in acidic media. For Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 and RuO2 samples, the (110) crystal plane is selected for the study based on HRTEM images (Figure 1d) and previous studies, since it is considered as the most stable plane because it possesses low surface energy.[38] Here, the model of the prepared electrocatalyst is constructed based on the RuO2 structure, while Ru atoms are partially replaced by Cr atoms to build the Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 model. In addition, since DFT mainly focuses on the influence of Cr solubilizing on RuO2, the solution effect is not considered in the calculations. The XRD simulation was performed on the constructed model. The simulation result agrees well with the experimental sample, indicating that the model structure is correct (Figure S20, Supporting Information). The active sites of the reaction are marked in green, and the Gibbs free energy is calculated for each step of the OER. **Figure 7**a shows the atomic structure of the oxygen intermediates adsorbed at the catalyst (110) interface during the OER. The corresponding energy maps for the reaction steps on RuO2 and Ru0.6Cr0.4O2

are calculated. Interestingly, under oxidizing conditions in water, the Ru site readily adsorbs OH to form \*OH. The rate determination step (RDS) is an important indicator for determining the catalytic performance of OER catalysts. For the model studied, the difference in adsorption energy between \*OOH and \*O intermediates (the third basic step from \*O to \*OOH) is the RDS of the OER. The formation energy of \*OOH on Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 exhibits a relatively low energy barrier of 1.63 eV compared with 1.74 eV on pristine RuO2. Figure 7b exhibits the free energy illustrations of the LOM calculated using DFT for RuO2 and Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 surfaces. It is found that in the LOM, the third electrochemical step is also the RDS. It can be seen that the OER overpotential of the LOM increases, indicating that Cr introduction increases the formation energy of *V*o and inhibits the participation of lattice O in the OER process. Therefore, the Ru dissolution in the acidic electrolyte will be inhibited in Ru0.6Cr0.4O2.

Generally, the electronic interaction between reaction sites and adsorbed oxygen species is an important factor affecting the catalytic reaction in OER.[41] For this study, the electron interaction is the mutual coupling between the d electrons of the Ru atoms in the active sites and the p electrons of the adsorbed oxygen atoms. Based on the rationalization of molecular orbital theory (Figure 7c and Figure S21a, Supporting Information), oxygen 2p overlaps with metal n d orbitals to produce bonding (MO) and antibonding (MO)\* bands, showing mainly

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-methods.com**

**Figure 7.** DFT calculations on the studied Ru0.6Cr0.4O2. a) The OER illustration of free energy through AEM of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 and RuO2. b) The OER illustration of free energy through LOM of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 and RuO2. c) The schematic illustration of modulation of the energy band for Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 and RuO2 toward OER. d) DOS plots of Ru 4d, O 2p, and Cr 3d states in RuO2 and Ru0.6Cr0.4O2.

oxygen and metal features, respectively.[18] Since the d-energy band center model can describe the adsorption-metal interaction well, the *ε*d is calculated by using the projected density of states (DOS) of the d orbitals (Figure 7d). Impressively, the *ε*d of RuO2 and Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 are −3.41 and −3.52 eV relative to the Fermi energy level (*E*f), respectively, illustrating that the *ε*<sup>d</sup> is far from *E*f after Cr incorporation. This also illustrates the reduction of antibonding energy states and the weakened interaction between the adsorbed oxygen species and Ru. By comparing published literature, weaker adsorption of Ru and O would lead to lower free energy for the RDS and exhibit excellent OER activity, which matches up with our calculations.[5,42] In addition, after incorporation with Cr, more unoccupied states are produced in the eg state of Ru.[43] This is further supported by the DFT calculated partial density of states results for Ru sites on the surface (Figure S21b, Supporting Information). The addition of Cr may modulate the electronic structure of Ru so that it possesses more unoccupied eg orbital at the active site about 1 eV above *E*f. Considering that the eg orbital electrons are directly involved in coupling with the *σ* orbitals of surface adsorbates such as H2O, OH<sup>−</sup>, or O2, reducing the occupancy of the eg orbitals for Ru tunes the binding strength to the oxygen intermediates in AEM, thus promoting OER. Furthermore, according to the charge density diagrams of Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 in Figure S22 in the Supporting Information, the charge density around the Ru atom is regulated by introducing Cr, which significantly adjusts the electron redistribution in the RuO bond. The empty eg orbital of Cr enhances DOS in the range of 2–6 eV, indicating a weak CrO binding strength (Figure S21c, Supporting Information). These results suggest that Cr incorporation could modulate the electronic state of Ru and thus enhance the OER activity on Ru sites.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, rutile Ru-based catalysts were synthesized by the sol–gel method. The experimental behaviors indicate that the electron distribution of RuO2 is changed with Cr incorporation, leading to the decrease of both *ε*d of Ru and the energy barrier of \*OOH adsorbed on RuO2 (110), which is favorable for the catalysis of acidic OER. Additionally, the oxidation resistance of Ru has been significantly improved by breaking the formation pathway of *V*o in the OER process, thus enhancing the stability. Owing to these superior electronic state and phase structure, the Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 catalyst exhibits high OER performance with *η* of only 195 mV at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , fast electrocatalytic kinetics with a Tafel slope of 62.15 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , and excellent stability with the potential increase of merely 5.3 mV after 20 h stability test in acidic media. This work not only reports a catalyst with excellent activity and stability in acidic media but also effectively reduces the cost of Ru-based catalysts. Moreover, the prepared Ru0.6Cr0.4O2 opens up new horizons for the large-scale application of PEM electrolyzer.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-methods.com**

23669608, 2022, 9, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smtd.202200636 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

Authors would like to thank the financial support of Training Program of the Major Research Plan of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (90261124), National Natural Science Foundation of China (21975292, 21978331, and 21905311), Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2020A1515010343 and 2021A1515010167), and the Fundamental Research Funds for Central Universities (Nos. 19lgpy136 and 19lgpy116).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

### **Keywords**

acidic media, Cr, density functional theory, oxygen evolution reaction, RuO2

> Received: May 17, 2022 Revised: June 19, 2022 Published online: July 25, 2022

- [1] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, 4998; b) C. Wang, H. Shang, H. Xu, Y. Du, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 857.
- [2] a) J. A. Turner, *Science* **2004**, *305*, 972; b) J. Liu, Z. Wang, J. Li, L. Cao, Z. Lu, D. Zhu, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1905738; c) M. S. Dresselhaus, I. L. Thomas, *Nature* **2001**, *414*, 332; d) R. Gao, M. Deng, Q. Yan, Z. Fang, L. Li, H. Shen, Z. Chen, *Small Methods* **2021**, *5*, 2100834.
- [3] a) J. Kibsgaard, I. Chorkendorff, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 430; b) A. Li, H. Ooka, N. Bonnet, T. Hayashi, Y. Sun, Q. Jiang, C. Li, H. Han, R. Nakamura, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *131*, 5108; c) C. Wang, H. Shang, J. Li, Y. Wang, H. Xu, C. Wang, J. Guo, Y. Du, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *420*, 129805.
- [4] K. Yang, P. Xu, Z. Lin, Y. Yang, P. Jiang, C. Wang, S. Liu, S. Gong, L. Hu, Q. Chen, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1803009.
- [5] S. Niu, X.-P. Kong, S. Li, Y. Zhang, J. Wu, W. Zhao, P. Xu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *297*, 120442.
- [6] a) X. Qiao, H. Kang, Y. Li, K. Cui, X. Jia, X. Wu, W. Qin, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2106378; b) J. Chen, H. Chen, T. Yu, R. Li, Y. Wang, Z. Shao, S. Song, *Electrochem. Energy Rev.* **2021**, *4*, 566.
- [7] J. Hu, X. Zhang, J. Xiao, R. Li, Y. Wang, S. Song, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, 2275.
- [8] K. N. Dinh, Y. Sun, Z. Pei, Z. Yuan, A. Suwardi, Q. Huang, X. Liao, Z. Wang, Y. Chen, Q. Yan, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1905885.
- [9] a) T. Reier, Z. Pawolek, S. Cherevko, M. Bruns, T. Jones, D. Teschner, S. Selve, A. Bergmann, H. N. Nong, R. Schlögl, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 13031; b) J. Zhang, G. Wang, Z. Liao, P. Zhang, F. Wang, X. Zhuang, E. Zschech, X. Feng, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *40*, 27.

- [10] L. C. Seitz, C. F. Dickens, K. Nishio, Y. Hikita, J. Montoya, A. Doyle, C. Kirk, A. Vojvodic, H. Y. Hwang, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2016**, *353*, 1011.
- [11] H. N. Nong, H.-S. Oh, T. Reier, E. Willinger, M.-G. Willinger, V. Petkov, D. Teschner, P. Strasser, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 2975.
- [12] O. Diaz-Morales, S. Raaijman, R. Kortlever, P. J. Kooyman, T. Wezendonk, J. Gascon, W. T. Fu, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12363.
- [13] D. Lebedev, M. Povia, K. Waltar, P. M. Abdala, I. E. Castelli, E. Fabbri, M. V. Blanco, A. Fedorov, C. Copéret, N. Marzari, T. J. Schmidt, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 5182.
- [14] M. P. Browne, Z. Sofer, M. Pumera, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 41.
- [15] a) Y. Yao, S. Hu, W. Chen, Z.-Q. Huang, W. Wei, T. Yao, R. Liu, K. Zang, X. Wang, G. Wu, W. Yuan, T. Yuan, B. Zhu, W. Liu, Z. Li, D. He, Z. Xue, Y. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Dong, C.-R. Chang, Y. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, S. Wei, W.-X. Li, P. Strasser, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 304; b) K. Sardar, E. Petrucco, C. I. Hiley, J. D. B. Sharman, P. P. Wells, A. E. Russell, R. J. Kashtiban, J. Sloan, R. I. Walton, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 10960; c) M. Blasco-Ahicart, J. Soriano-López, J. J. Carbó, J. M. Poblet, J. R. Galan-Mascaros, *Nat. Chem.* **2018**, *10*, 24.
- [16] Y. Li, J. Abbott, Y. Sun, J. Sun, Y. Du, X. Han, G. Wu, P. Xu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *258*, 117952.
- [17] N. Du, C. Wang, X. Wang, Y. Lin, J. Jiang, Y. Xiong, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 2077.
- [18] a) Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2016**, *1*, 1; b) Y. Yang, Z. Lin, S. Gao, J. Su, Z. Lun, G. Xia, J. Chen, R. Zhang, Q. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 469; c) T. Liu, D. Liu, F. Qu, D. Wang, L. Zhang, R. Ge, S. Hao, Y. Ma, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, L. Chen, X. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700020.
- [19] a) M. Retuerto, L. Pascual, F. Calle-Vallejo, P. Ferrer, D. Gianolio, A. G. Pereira, Á. García, J. Torrero, M. T. Fernández-Díaz, P. Bencok, M. A. Peña, J. L. G. Fierro, S. Rojas, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2041; b) G. Berti, S. Sanna, C. Castellano, J. Van Duijn, R. Ruiz-Bustos, L. Bordonali, G. Bussetti, A. Calloni, F. Demartin, L. Duò, A. Brambilla, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 11763.
- [20] S. Chen, H. Huang, P. Jiang, K. Yang, J. Diao, S. Gong, S. Liu, M. Huang, H. Wang, Q. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 1152.
- [21] K. S. Exner, J. Anton, T. Jacob, H. Over, *ChemElectroChem* **2015**, *2*, 707.
- [22] Y. Lin, Z. Tian, L. Zhang, J. Ma, Z. Jiang, B. J. Deibert, R. Ge, L. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 162.
- [23] a) S. Hao, M. Liu, J. Pan, X. Liu, X. Tan, N. Xu, Y. He, L. Lei, X. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5368; b) B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. García-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, F. P. García de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2016**, *352*, 333.
- [24] Y. Tian, S. Wang, E. Velasco, Y. Yang, L. Cao, L. Zhang, X. Li, Y. Lin, Q. Zhang, L. Chen, *iScience* **2020**, *23*, 100756.
- [25] R. R. Rao, M. J. Kolb, L. Giordano, A. F. Pedersen, Y. Katayama, J. Hwang, A. Mehta, H. You, J. R. Lunger, H. Zhou, N. B. Halck, T. Vegge, I. Chorkendorff, I. E. L. Stephens, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 516.
- [26] D. J. Morgan, *Surf. Interface Anal.* **2015**, *47*, 1072.
- [27] J. Y. Shen, A. Adnot, S. Kaliaguine, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **1991**, *51*, 47.
- [28] a) Z. Ma, S. Zhao, X. Pei, X. Xiong, B. Hu, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2017**, *7*, 191; b) B. Feng, C. Chen, H. Yang, X. Zhao, L. Hua, Y. Yu, T. Cao, Y. Shi, Z. Hou, *Adv. Synth. Catal.* **2012**, *354*, 1559.
- [29] a) E. Agostinelli, C. Battistoni, D. Fiorani, G. Mattogno, M. Nogues, *J. Phys. Chem. Solids* **1989**, *50*, 269; b) G. P. Halada, C. R. Clayton, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1991**, *138*, 2921.
- [30] a) P. Z. Si, H. X. Wang, W. Jiang, J. G. Lee, C. J. Choi, J. J. Liu, *Thin Solid Films* **2011**, *519*, 8423; b) R. Cheng, B. Xu, C. N. Borca,

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-methods.com**

- A. Sokolov, C.-S. Yang, L. Yuan, S.-H. Liou, B. Doudin, P. A. Dowben, *Appl. Phys. Lett.* **2001**, *79*, 3122; c) L. Mao, B. Gao, N. Deng, J. Zhai, Y. Zhao, Q. Li, H. Cui, *Chemosphere* **2015**, *138*, 197.
- [31] a) Y. Liu, J. Luo, L. Tang, C. Feng, J. Wang, Y. Deng, H. Liu, J. Yu, H. Feng, J. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 14857; b) F. Liu, H. Zhou, Z. Pan, Y. Liu, G. Yao, Y. Guo, B. Lai, *J. Hazard. Mater.* **2020**, *400*, 123322; c) Y. Zeng, Z. Lai, Y. Han, H. Zhang, S. Xie, X. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1802396.
- [32] J. Shan, T. Ling, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900510.
- [33] J. He, X. Zhou, P. Xu, J. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *80*, 105540.
- [34] a) S. Yuan, W. Chen, L. Zhang, Z. Liu, J. Liu, T. Liu, G. Li, Q. Wang, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1903311; b) E. Detsi, J. B. Cook, B. K. Lesel, C. L. Turner, Y.-L. Liang, S. Robbennolt, S. H. Tolbert, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 540.
- [35] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16977.
- [36] S. Geiger, O. Kasian, M. Ledendecker, E. Pizzutilo, A. M. Mingers, W. T. Fu, O. Diaz-Morales, Z. Li, T. Oellers, L. Fruchter, A. Ludwig, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, M. T. M. Koper, S. Cherevko, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 508.

- [37] Y. Wen, P. Chen, L. Wang, S. Li, Z. Wang, J. Abed, X. Mao, Y. Min, C. T. Dinh, P. D. Luna, R. Huang, L. Zhang, L. Wang, L. Wang, R. J. Nielsen, H. Li, T. Zhuang, C. Ke, O. Voznyy, Y. Hu, Y. Li, W. A. GoddardIII, B. Zhang, H. Peng, E. H. Sargent, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 6482.
- [38] a) A. Zagalskaya, V. Alexandrov, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 3650; b) T. Reier, H. N. Nong, D. Teschner, R. Schlögl, P. Strasser, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1601275.
- [39] J. Shan, Y. Zheng, B. Shi, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 2719.
- [40] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y.-L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 457.
- [41] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 5076.
- [42] H. Jin, S. Choi, G. J. Bang, T. Kwon, H. S. Kim, S. J. Lee, Y. Hong, D. W. Lee, H. S. Park, H. Baik, Y. Jung, S. J. Yoo, K. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 1119.
- [43] J. Y. Kim, S. H. Hwang, S. J. Kim, G. Demazeau, J. H. Choy, H. Shimada, *J. Synchrotron Radiat.* **2001**, *8*, 722.