---
source: Czioska 等 - 2018 - Hierarchically Structured NiFeO x  CuO NanosheetsNanowires as an Efficient Elect.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 39.448s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:26:50.665476Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Hierarchically structured NiFeOx/CuO nanosheets/nanowires as an efficient electrocatalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction

**Authors:** Steffen Czioska, Jianying Wang, Shangshang Zuo, Xue Teng, and Zuofeng Chen

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemCatChem* 10.1002/cctc.201701441

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201701441

**FULL PAPER**

# **Hierarchically structured NiFeOx/CuO nanosheets/nanowires as an efficient electrocatalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction**

Steffen Czioska, Jianying Wang, Shangshang Zuo, Xue Teng and Zuofeng Chen\*

**Abstract:** It is desirable to fabricate hierarchically structured NiFebased materials to further boost the performance of these state-ofthe-art electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Most of the NiFeO<sup>x</sup> catalysts in the form of layered double hydroxides feature the nanosheet structure which limits their spatial extension at the electrode substrate. Herein, we report the fabrication of unique NiFeOx/CuO nanosheets/nanowires and their use as efficient electrocatalyst for the OER. The surface-bound Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanowires were grown *in situ* on a copper substrate by a simple solution-based method, which were then converted to CuO nanowires by calcination in air. The coating of NiFeO<sup>x</sup> nanosheets was achieved by anodic co-deposition in concentrated carbonate solution containing Ni(II) and Fe(III). The presence of concentrated carbonate anions allows Fe(III) to be dissolved in a basic solution by complex ion formation. This strategy therefore avoids the destruction of CuO nanowires caused by the usual cathodic procedure in acidic solutions. At a planar copper foil, a small Tafel slope of 36 mV/dec was obtained in 1 M KOH and a current density of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> was reached at a very low overpotential of 300 mV from the Tafel plot. Electrolysis experiments showed high stability of the catalyst with nearly no loss in efficiency and morphology change after a prolonged period. The same catalyst could be established on a three-dimensional copper foam.

## **Introduction**

Fossil fuels like coal and oil account for most of the energy consumed by mankind today. With rising concerns about energy crisis and environmental pollution, the use of clean and renewable alternative energy sources to substitute these fossil fuels attracts more and more attention. One of the most promising clean energy sources is hydrogen produced by water splitting. The water splitting process consists of two halfreactions, the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). In comparison with the HER,[1] the OER is energetically more demanding and embodies the bottleneck of water splitting. The OER consists of four-electron and four-proton transfer concomitant with O=O double bond formation, which is more complex and kinetically sluggish than the HER.[2]

Although significant progress has been made, there remains an ongoing need to develop affordable electrocatalysts to efficiently speed up the OER. For instance, IrO<sup>2</sup> and RuO<sup>2</sup> exhibit excellent OER performance,[3] but their high cost and non-abundance hinder their large-scale application. Therefore,

S. Czioska, J. Wang, S. Zuo, X. Teng, Z. Chen Shanghai Key Lab of Chemical Assessment and Sustainability School of Chemical Science and Engineering, Tongji University Shanghai 200092, China E-mail: zfchen@tongji.edu.cn (Z. C.)

Supporting Information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

one focus lies on non-noble metal-based materials, mainly the 3d first-row transition metal oxides, hydroxides, or oxyhydroxides.[4] Among these materials, electrocatalysts consisting of a combination of nickel and iron have been demonstrated to catalyze the OER with high efficiency by taking the advantage of synergistic metal-metal interactions.[4c-h] Copper as another 3d transition metal element was also found recently to form OER electrocatalysts. However, the performances reached by copper-based materials were comparably low.[5]

Besides the nature of electrocatalyst materials, the electrode structure and morphology play a key role in determining the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) and therefore the catalyst performance.[6] In earlier reports, bimetallic oxide catalysts, such as CoFeOx, [7a] CoNiOx, [7b] and NiFeO<sup>x</sup> [4c-h] were typically in the form of layered double hydroxides (LDHs), which tended to assemble into two-dimensional nanosheets. It is challenging to construct one-dimensional nanostructured in particular NiFeO<sup>x</sup> for the OER, which should maximize the specific surface area of the electrocatalyst at a given electrode substrate, and therefore further boost the catalyst performance. By contrast, there are a large number of reports regarding the synthesis or fabrication of various Cu-based nanowire materials for various applications.[8] For example, metallic Cu nanowires have been synthesized by one-pot hydrothermal reaction,[8a] and Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanowires have been reported to grow from the copper surface either by surface reaction in a chemical bath or anodic treatment, which might be further converted to various copperbased materials.[5a, 8b-d]

Herein, we report the fabrication of NiFeOx/CuO nanosheets/nanowires and their use for efficient electrocatalytic water oxidation. The nanowires consisting of copper hydroxide were grown from copper substrate in a chemical bath and then converted to copper oxide nanowires by calcination in air. Subsequently, the NiFeO<sup>x</sup> nanosheets catalyst was anodically co-deposited onto the CuO nanowires in concentrated carbonate solution containing Ni(II) and Fe(III), a method generally employed to *in situ* deposit individual Co, Ni, or Cu oxides onto electrodes in buffer solutions for the OER.[9] In this procedure, high concentrations of carbonate anions are essential in complex ion formation to avoid precipitation of Fe(III) (Fe(OH)3, *K*sp = 2.6 × 10–39). Due to the poor solubility of Fe(III) in basic solution, the cathodic co-deposition was usually carried out in acidic solutions for preparation of NiFe-based catalysts,[4c-e] which in this case may destruct CuO nanowires by dissolution and reduction. In addition, the direct growth of nanowires from the underlying conductive substrate and *in situ* electrodeposition of NiFeO<sup>x</sup> catalysts can eliminate the use of any conductive agents and binders, which ensures good electrical contact between the electrocatalyst and the conductive substrate. The as-prepared nanosheets/nanowires at a planar copper foil exhibit a low Tafel slope of 36 mV/dec and a low overpotential of 300 mV to reach a current density of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> from the Tafel plot. Long-term electrolysis revealed high stability of catalyst performance with nearly no change in structure and morphology of the electrode. When established on a three-dimensional copper foam as the electrode substrate, the electrocatalyst requires an overpotential of only 265 mV for a current density of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> , which is among the best NiFeO<sup>x</sup> catalysts reported to date. The fabrication of this hierarchically structured nanosheets/nanowires electrode to maximize the NiFeO<sup>x</sup> catalyst efficiency is appealing and will contribute to the future development of this class of OER catalysts.

### **Results and Discussion**

*Preparation and characterization of electrocatalyst.* The fabrication process of the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode is illustrated in Scheme 1. Firstly, copper hydroxide nanowires were developed on a copper foil in an aqueous solution containing NaOH and (NH4)2S2O<sup>8</sup> for 25 min.[11] The general reaction was depicted in eq. 1 and the reaction mechanism for the formation of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanowires were discussed in detail elsewhere. In an alkaline solution, ammonium sulfate is reductively decomposed on the copper surface with concomitant formation of a blue layer of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanowires. As shown by SEM images in Figure 1A,B, the nanowires were uniformly grown on the copper surface.

$$Cu + 4OH^{-} + (NH_4)_2S_2O_8 \rightarrow Cu(OH)_2 + 2SO_4^{2-} + 2NH_3\uparrow + 2H_2O$$
 (1)

**Scheme 1.** Fabrication process together with photographs of (A) Cu foil, (B) Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu, (C) CuO NWs/Cu, and (D) NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu to show the color change of the electrode after each step.

Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanowires did not prove stable during prolonged anodic NiFeO<sup>x</sup> deposition, which were therefore converted to CuO nanowires by calcination in air prior to the coating. The annealing treatment is expected to improve the mechanical strength or stability of the electrode. While the color of the copper foil changed from light blue to brown after dehydration, the nanowires are retained perfectly, as shown in Figure 1C,E. The CuO nanowires were then coated with NiFeO<sup>x</sup> by anodic codeposition in concentrated carbonate solution containing 1 mM Ni(II) and 1 mM Fe(III).[12] The CuO NWs were highly stable during the electrodeposition by holding the potential at 1.74 V *vs.* RHE for 60 min. As can be seen in Figure 1D,F, the arranged structure of the nanowires was unchanged, while the diameter of the nanowires was increased and the surface became rough due to the coating of NiFeOxnanosheets. The TEM images in Figure 1G,H confirm the formation of the expected core-shell nanowire structure. The diameter of uncoated CuO nanowires is around 200 nm and the coating layer has a thickness of around 50 nm, giving the core-shell nanowires a diameter of around 300 nm.

**Figure 1.** SEM images of (A) Cu foil, (B) Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu, (C) CuO NWs/Cu, and (D) NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu. (E) and (F) are high-magnification SEM images of CuO NWs/Cu and NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu, respectively; (G) and (I) are their corresponding TEM images.

**FULL PAPER**

The electrodes were characterized by XRD, Raman spectroscopy and XPS. Figure 2A shows XRD patterns of Cu foil, Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu, CuO NWs/Cu and NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu. In all samples, the three main peaks at 43.3°, 50.4° and 74.0° are attributed to (111), (200) and (220) of the Cu foil substrate (JCPDS No. 03-1005), respectively. The XRD pattern of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu shows a set of diffraction peaks at 16.7°, 23.8°, 34.0°, 35.8°, 38.2°, 39.8° and 53.2°, corresponding to (020), (021), (002), (111), (022), (130) and (150) of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> (JCPDS No. 13-0420). By contrast, the XRD pattern of CuO NWs/Cu exhibits three diffraction peaks at 35.7° and 39.0° and 49.2° for (-111), (111) and (-202) of CuO (JCPDS No. 01-1117) with no evidence for the presence of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> residues. These results confirm the complete conversion of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs into CuO NWs after calcination. With NiFeO<sup>x</sup> coated onto CuO NWs/Cu, there is no observable change in XRD pattern, indicating the amorphous nature of the NiFeO<sup>x</sup> coating.

The electrodes were also investigated by Raman spectroscopy, as shown in Figure 2B. The copper foil substrate exhibits no Raman signals since metallic copper is not responsive toward Raman scattering. For the Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu electrode, the Raman bands observed at 300 and 488 cm–1 are consistent with the presence of Cu(OH)2. [13] For this sample, the Raman spectrum is complicated by the bands at 275, 320 and 615 cm–1 for the Ag, B<sup>g</sup> <sup>1</sup> and B<sup>g</sup> <sup>2</sup> mode symmetries of CuO, which are exclusively observed at the CuO NWs/Cu electrode. The presence of the CuO bands at the Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu electrode could be rationalized by the metastability of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> with respect to dehydration by laser power during Raman measurement, which was also observed for other hydroxide materials.[14] On the other hand, the absence of any Raman bands of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> at the CuO NWs/Cu electrode indicates the complete conversion of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs into CuO NWs after calcination, consistent with the XRD results. In contrast to the XRD result, Ni and Fe at the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode are observable by Raman spectroscopy. The peaks at approximately 460 and 526 cm–1 are contributed to the stretching Ni-O(H) bond and structural defects of Ni(OH)2. [15] The band located between 650 - 710 cm–1 can be assigned to either *γ*-FeOOH or Fe(OH)3. [16]

We performed XPS on the four electrodes to further characterize their compositional changes during the fabrication process. The survey XPS are shown in Figure S1. In Figure 2C, the Cu 2p XPS of copper foil exhibits peaks at 932.0 and 951.8 eV, consistent with the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 binding energies of Cu(0) metal. The small rounded peaks at 943.6 and 962.4 eV can be attributed to CuO/Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> that arises from the surface oxidation of Cu foil. These intense satellite peaks are the characteristic of the Cu 2p XPS of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu and CuO NWs/Cu electrodes. The Cu 2p XPS of the two nanowires electrodes are similar with exception of peaks shifted toward lower binding energies from Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> to CuO. For the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode, the intensity of Cu 2p XPS signals is greatly decreased because of the overlaying of NiFeOx. The Ni 2p XPS in Figure 2D displays two dominant peaks at 854.9 and 872.6 eV accompanied by two less intense satellite peaks, consistent with the presence of trivalent Ni, presumably NiOOH.[17] In the Fe 2p XPS in Figure 2E, two dominant peaks are observed at binding energies of 710.8 and 725.2 eV, consistent with the presence of trivalent Fe.[18]

The elemental composition was also investigated by EDX. As shown in Figure 2F-I, the only elements observed at the Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu and CuO NWs/Cu electrodes are copper and oxygen. As expected, the oxygen content at the latter electrode is significantly lower than that at the former one. At the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode, the EDX analysis reveals a molar ratio of nearly 1:1 for Ni (8.36%) and Fe (9.67%) (Table S1). The earlier study also revealed a similar optimized ratio to achieve the optimal performance of the FeNiO<sup>x</sup> catalysts.[12, 16a]

**Figure 2.** (A) XRD pattern, (B) Raman spectra, (C-E) high-resolution XPS of Cu 2p, Ni 2p and Fe 2p, and (F-I) EDX spectra of copper foil (black), Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu (red), CuO NWs/Cu (green), and NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu (blue).

*Electrocatalysis.* The OER activity of the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode was investigated in 1 M KOH (pH 13.6). For reference, the performance of Cu(OH)<sup>2</sup> NWs/Cu, CuO NWs/Cu, and NiFeO<sup>x</sup> coated on an untreated copper foil (NiFeOx@Cu) are also presented. As shown in Figure 3A, the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode exhibits much higher performance than all the other reference electrodes, which is attributable to the high ECSA of the core-shell nanowires combined with the high catalytic activity of NiFeOx. The high ECSA of the NiFeOx@CuO NWs/Cu electrode is evidenced by the oxidation wave of NiII to NiIII, which is ~25 times larger than that of the unsophisticated

Figure 3. (A) Polarization curves of Cu(OH)<sub>2</sub> NWs/Cu (black), CuO NWs/Cu (red), NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@Cu (green) and NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu (blue) of the same geometric surface area in 1 M KOH at 20 mV/s and (B) the corresponding Tafel plots. (C) CPE of NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu at an overpotential of 350 mV. (D) Multi-potential process obtained at NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu. (E,F) SEM images of NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu after 15 h electrolysis.

NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@Cu electrode. The Tafel plot in Figure 3B of NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu reveals a Tafel slope of 36 mV/dec for the electrode, which lies within the range of reported values (30 - 50 mV/dec) of well-known NiFeO<sub>x</sub> catalysts.<sup>[19]</sup> From the Tafel plot, the NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu electrode exhibits an impressive low overpotential of 300 mV to reach a current density of 100 mA for the OER, making it among the best NiFeO<sub>x</sub> catalysts supported at planar electrode substrates (Table S2). Additional electrocatalytic data for NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu fabricated by varied conditions for NiFeO<sub>x</sub> deposition are present and discussed in Figures S2-S4. To further investigate the high surface area of CuO NWs/Cu, ECSA measurements of CuO/Cu and CuO NWs/Cu were taken (Figure S5 and S6). The CuO NWs exhibit a much higher active surface area, which explains the high performance of NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs.

The electrode exhibited high stability with nearly no decrease in current density during long-term electrolysis in 1 M KOH solution, as shown in Figure 3C. After 15 h electrolysis at an overpotential of 350 mV, no change in electrode structure and surface morphology was observable as seen in Figure 3E,F. To further examine the electrode stability at different applied potentials, a multi-step chronocoulometry experiment was conducted. The controlled potential was increased from  $\eta=250$  to 500 mV with an increment of 25 mV per 600 s, and the corresponding change of current density was recorded. As shown in Figure 3D, the response currents remained constant at each step, indicating the high stability of the electrode within a

wide range of applied potentials. In addition, the fast response of currents to potential ramps indicated efficient charge transfer and mass diffusion across the nanostructured electrode. The current curve became fluctuated at higher potentials due to the disturbance of vigorous bubbles. At an overpotential of 500 mV, a current density of up to 230 mA/cm² was achieved.

**Extension to a three-dimensional copper foam.** We extended the strategy for the fabrication of the core-shell nanowires to a three-dimensional copper foam as the electrode substrate. The SEM images in Figure 4A-D,F confirm the formation of the core-shell nanowires on the copper foam (NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu foam).

As expected, the hierarchically structured 3D electrode leads to greatly improved catalytic performance in comparison with the reference electrodes (Figure 4H). The catalyst also showed a low Tafel slope of 35 mV/dec and an extremely low overpotential of 265 mV is required for a current density of 100 mA/cm² (Figure 4I). As listed in Table S3, these values are among the best reported for 3D electrode substrates. The CPE experiment shows sustained current density of 123 mA/cm² at an overpotential of 300 mV (Figure 4J). The SEM images in Figures 4E,G show that the electrode structure and surface morphology was well-retained during electrolysis, accounting for the high stability of the catalyst performance. Being able to establish the catalyst on a 2D as well on a 3D electrode opens a wide range of commercial applications.

WILEY-VCH

ChemCatChem

Figure 4. SEM images of Cu foam, i.e. CF (A), Cu(OH)<sub>2</sub> NWs/CF (B), CuO NWs/CF (C), and NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/CF before (D,F) and after (E,G) long-term electrolysis. (H) Polarization curves of Cu(OH)2 NWs/CF (black), CuO NWs/CF (red), NiFeOx/CF (green) and NiFeOx@CuO NWs/CF (blue) in 1 M KOH at 20 mV/s. (I) Tafel plot of NiFeOx@CuO NWs/CF. (J) CPE of NiFeOx@CuO NWs/CF at an overpotential of 300 mV.

### Conclusion

**FULL PAPER** 

In summary, we demonstrate the fabrication of hierarchically structured nanosheets/nanowires electrocatalysts based on earth-abundant 3d first-row transition metals - copper, iron, and nickel and their use for efficient electrocatalytic water oxidation. Ni and Fe were anodically co-deposited onto CuO nanowires which were conveniently prepared by a simple solution-based method followed by a calcination procedure in air. The high specific surface area provided by CuO nanowires and the coated NiFeOx nanosheets, combined with the excellent catalytic properties of the NiFeOx lead to efficient electrocatalytic water oxidation. To achieve a current density of 100 mA/cm2, the asconstructed electrodes with planar copper foil and threedimensional copper foam require low overpotentials of only 300 mV and 265 mV, respectively. These electrodes can deliver sustained high current density without modification of electrode structure and surface morphology. The use of inexpensive firstrow metals, the fast and scalable preparation method, the unique hierarchical structure of nanosheets/nanowires, and the high catalytic performance with high catalyst stability are remarkable. In addition, the preparation of the catalyst by anodic deposition in alkaline solution makes it possible for incorporating the preparation in the OER process. This study may therefore lead to more convenient and competitive routes for water splitting.

#### **Experimental Section**

Chemicals. Nickel(II) nitrate (Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%), iron(III) sulfate  $(Fe_2(SO_4)_3, 99\%)$ , sodium carbonate  $(Na_2CO_3, > 99.8\%)$ , sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO<sub>3</sub>, 99.3%), potassium hydroxide (KOH, 99%), sodium hydroxide (NaOH, 99%), and ammonium persulfate ((NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>O<sub>8</sub>,

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

99%) were obtained from Fisher Scientific. Copper foil and copper foam (1.6 mm thickness) were obtained from Delta Technologies, Limited. All reagents were analytical grade and used as received. All electrolyte solutions were prepared by Milli-Q ultrapure water (> 18 M $\Omega$  cm) unless stated otherwise. The concentrated carbonate solution of pH 10.8 was prepared by mixing Na<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub> and NaHCO<sub>3</sub> (c(CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>) + c(HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>) = 2 M; molar ratio Na<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub>:NaHCO<sub>3</sub> = 9:1). The pH for 1 M KOH is 13.6 according to literature reports.<sup>[9]</sup>

Apparatus. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images and energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX) data were obtained at Hitachi S-4800 (Hitachi, Japan) equipped with a Horiba EDX system (X-max, silicon drift X-Ray detector). After anodic electrodeposition, the NiFeO<sub>x</sub>-coated electrode was rinsed with deionized water and ethanol and dried in air before being loaded into the instrument. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images were obtained using Tecnai G² F20 S-Twin. The catalyst sample was removed from the electrode by sonication in absolute ethanol, and a drop of the mixture was dried on a micro grid copper network for analysis.

Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) was measured by Bruker Focus D8 via ceramic monochromatized Cu Kα radiation of 1.54178 Å, operating at 40 kV and 40 mA. The scanning rate was 5° per min in  $2\theta$  and the scanning range was from 15 - 80°. Raman spectroscopy was conducted on a confocal microscope laser Raman spectrometer of Rainshaw invia. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) for elemental analysis was conducted on a Kratos Axis Ultra DLD X-ray Photoelectron Spectrometer using 60 W monochromated Mg Kα radiation as the X-ray source for excitation. The carbon 1s peak (284.6 eV) was used for internal calibration. Electrochemical measurements were performed on a CHI 660E electrochemical workstation (Chenhua Corp., Shanghai, China). The three-electrode system consisted of a working electrode, a platinum plate counter electrode, and a saturated calomel reference electrode (SCE, ~0.244 V vs. NHE, the normal hydrogen electrode). Prior to each measurement, the platinum plate counter electrode was routinely treated by soaking in 1 M hydrochloric acid to remove any deposited Ni or Fe and afterwards rinsed with ultrapure water. Unless stated otherwise, all potentials in linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) were reported vs. RHE with iR compensation, while all potentials in constant potential electrolysis (CPE) were reported vs. RHE without iR compensation. All electrochemical experiments were performed at 22 ± 2 °C.

Preparation of hierarchically structured electrode. First,  $Cu(OH)_2$  nanowires were developed on a copper foil according to a method reported earlier. Briefly, a 40 ml aqueous solution containing 2 M NaOH and 0.1 M  $(NH_4)_2S_2O_8$  was filled into a 100 ml glass beaker. A piece of 4 cm  $\times$  4 cm copper foil was then immersed into the solution, leaning on the beaker wall. After 25 min in the chemical bath, a layered film of  $Cu(OH)_2$  nanowires in light blue was formed on the surface of the copper foil  $(Cu(OH)_2 \ NWs/Cu)$ . The foil was then rinsed by ultrapure water and ethanol and dried in air. The conversion of  $Cu(OH)_2$  nanowires into  $Cu(O \ nanowires)$  was achieved by calcination in air at 200 °C for 3 h with a ramping rate of 5 °C/min. The resulting electrode was designated as  $Cu(O \ NWs/Cu)$ .

The CuO nanowires were coated by a layer of NiFeO<sub>x</sub> nanosheets by anodic co-deposition of Ni and Fe in concentrated carbonate solution, [11] forming the NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO nanowires. Briefly, the copper foil with CuO nanowires were covered by scotch tape to define a geometric surface area of 0.25 cm² on the front of the electrode for electrochemical measurements. To obtain a pure copper contact, one end of the electrode was scratched by a knife to remove the CuO nanowires layer. The NiFeO<sub>x</sub> catalyst was deposited onto the CuO nanowires by electrolysis at 1.74 V vs. RHE for 1 h in 2 M Na<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub> (pH 10.8) containing 1 mM Ni(II) and 1 mM Fe(III). The resulting electrode, designated as NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu, was then rinsed with water and ethanol and dried in air. For comparison, a pure copper foil was also coated with nickel iron by the same procedure to obtain the NiFeO<sub>x</sub>/Cu electrode.

For preparation of the hierarchically structured three-dimensional electrode, a piece of copper foam was used as the electrode substrate and a similar procedure as for NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/Cu was applied to develop NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO nanowires on the three-dimensional copper foam. The resulting electrode is designated as NiFeO<sub>x</sub>@CuO NWs/CF.

**Tafel plot.** The current-potential data of the electrodes were obtained by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) at a very slow scan rate (0.1 mV/s). The Tafel slope was obtained from the LSV plot using a linear fit applied to points in the Tafel region. The solution resistance measured prior to the data collection (using iR test function) was used to correct the Tafel plot for *iR* drop.

#### **Acknowledgements**

We thank the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21573160, 21405114), The Recruitment Program of Global Youth Experts by China, and Science & Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (14DZ2261100) for support.

**Keywords:** NiFe-based electrocatalyst; copper oxide nanowires; water splitting; oxygen evolution reaction; hierarchical nanostructure

- [1] a) J. Greeley, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Bonde, I. B. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, *Nat. Mater.* **2006**, *5*, 909-913; b) D. Kong, J. J. Cha, H. Wang, H. R. Lee, Y. Cui, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 3553-3558; c) E. J. Popczun, J. R. McKone, C. G. Read, A. J. Biacchi, A. M. Wiltrout, N. S. Lewis, R. E. Schaak, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *13*, 9267-9270; d) E. J. Popczun, C. G. Read, C. W. Roske, N. S. Lewis, R. E. Schaak, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *126*, 5531-5534; e) Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, Y. Zhu, L. H. Li, Y. Han, Y. Chen, A. Du, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 3783.
- [2] T. R. Cook, D. K. Dogutan, S. Y. Reece, Y. Surendranath, T. S. Teets, D. G. Nocera, Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 6474-6502.
- [3] a) M. G. Walter, E. L. Warren, J. R. McKone, S. W. Boettcher, Q. Mi, E. A. Santori, N. S. Lewis, *Chem. Rev.* 2010, 110, 6446-6473;
  b) Y. Lee, J. Suntivich, K. J. May, E. E. Perry, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* 2012, 3, 399-404.
- [4] a) N. H. Chou, P. N. Ross, A. T. Bell, T. D. Tilley, ChemSusChem 2011, 4, 1566-1569; b) A. J. Esswein, M. J. McMurdo, P. N. Ross, A. T. Bell, T. D. Tilley, J. Phys. Chem. C 2009, 113, 15068-15072; c) X. Yu, M. Zhang, W. Yuan, G. Shi, J. Mater. Chem. A 2015, 3, 6921-6928; d) M. Gong, Y. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liang, J. Z. Wu, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 8452-8455; e) Z. Li, M. Shao, H. An, Z. Wang, S. Xu, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, Chem. Sci. 2015, 6, 6624-6631; f) X. Long, J. Li, S. Xiao, K. Yan, Z. Wang, H. Chen, S. Yang, Angew. Chem.

**FULL PAPER**

*Int. Ed.* **2014**, *126*, 7714-7718; g) Z. Lu, W. Xu, W. Zhu, Q. Yang, X. Lei, J. Liu, Y. Li, X. Sun, X. Duan, *Chem. Commun.* **2014**, *50*, 6479-6482; h) J. Wang, L. Ji, S. Zuo, Z. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, 1700107; i) J.-X. Feng, H. Xu, Y.-T. Dong, S.-H. Ye, Y.-X. Tong, G.-R. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *128*, 3758-3762; j) G. Jia, Y. Hu, Q. Qian, Y. Yao, S. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Zou, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 14527-14534; k) F. Song, X. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 16481-16484; l) Y. Zhang, B. Ouyang, J. Xu, G. Jia, S. Chen, R. S. Rawat, H. J. Fan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.*  **2016**, *55*, 8670-8674; m) C. G. Morales-Guio, L. Liardet, X. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 8946-8957; n) X. Gao, H. Zhang, Q. Li, X. Yu, Z. Hong, X. Zhang, C. Liang, Z. Lin, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.*  **2016**, *55*, 6290-6294; o) A. Sivanantham, P. Ganesan, S. Shanmugam, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, 4661-4672; p) H. Chen, Y. Gao, L. Sun, *ChemCatChem* **2016**, *8*, 2757-2760; q) Y. Wu, M. Chen, Y. Han, H. Luo, X. Su, M. T. Zhang, X. Lin, J. Sun, L. Wang, L. Deng, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 4870-4875; r) B. C. M. Martindale, E. Reisner, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1502095.

- [5] a) J. Du, Z. Chen, S. Ye, B. J. Wiley, T. J. Meyer, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 2073-2078; b) C. C. Hou, W. F. Fu, Y. Chen, *ChemSusChem* **2016**, *9*, 2069-2073.
- [6] a) B. You, N. Jiang, M. Sheng, M. W. Bhushan, Y. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 714-721; b) Z. Zhao, H. Wu, H. He, X. Xu, Y. Jin, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2014**, *24*, 4698-4705.
- [7] a) Z. Li, M. Shao, L. Zhou, R. Zhang, C. Zhang, J. Han, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *20*, 294-304; b) M. Shao, F. Ning, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2014**, *24*, 580-586.
- [8] a) S. Ye, I. E. Stewart, Z. Chen, B. Li, A. R. Rathmell, B. J. Wiley, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2016**, *49*, 442-451; b) J. Tian, Q. Liu, N. Cheng, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 9577-9581; c) H. Chen, Y. Gao, L. Sun, *ChemSusChem* **2017**, *10*, 1475-1481; d) S. Li, Y. Wang, S. Peng, L. Zhang, A. M. Al-Enizi, H. Zhang, X. Sun, G. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1501661.
- [9] a) M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, *Science* **2008**, *321*, 1072-1075; b) M. Dinca, Y. Surendranath, D. G. Nocera, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.* **2010**, *107*, 10337-10341; c) C. Lu, J. Du, X.-J. Su, M.-T. Zhang, X. Xu, T. J. Meyer, Z. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 77-83.
- [10] a) L. Kuai, J. Geng, C. Chen, E. Kan, Y. Liu, Q. Wang, B. Geng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 7547-7551; b) C. G. Morales-Guio, M. T. Mayer, A. Yella, S. D. Tilley, M. Gratzel, X. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 9927-9936.
- [11] W. Zhang, X. Wen, S. Yang, *Inorg. Chem.* **2003**, *42*, 5005-5014.
- [12] J. Wang, L. Ji, Z. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 6987-6992.
- [13] S. T. Mayer, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1992**, *139*, 426.
- [14] a) O. N. Shebanova, P. Lazor, *J. Raman Spectrosc.* **2003**, *34*, 845-852; b) N. Pinna, S. Grancharov, P. Beato, P. Bonville, M. Antonietti, M. Niederberger, *Chem. Mater.* **2005**, *17*, 3044-3049.
- [15] M. Vidotti, R. P. Salvador, S. I. Cordoba de Torresi, *Ultrason. Sonochem.* **2009**, *16*, 35-40.
- [16] a) M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329- 12337; b) C. C. Hou, C. J. Wang, Q. Q. Chen, X. J. Lv, W. F. Fu, Y. Chen, *Chem. Commun.* **2016**, *52*, 14470-14473.
- [17] M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, L. W. M. Lau, A. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, *Surf. Interface Anal.* **2009**, *41*, 324-332.
- [18] W. Temesghen, P. M. Sherwood, *Anal. Bioanal. Chem.* **2002**, *373*, 601-608.
- [19] a) R. D. Smith, M. S. Prevot, R. D. Fagan, S. Trudel, C. P. Berlinguette, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 11580-11586; b) Y. Qiu, L. Xin, W. Li, *Langmuir* **2014**, *30*, 7893-7901; c) J. B. Gerken, S. E. Shaner, R. C. Massé, N. J. Porubsky, S. S. Stahl, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 2376-2382; d) J. A. Bau, E. J. Luber, J. M. Buriak, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 19755-19763.

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

## **FULL PAPER**

CuO nanowires were developed by a solution-based method on copper foil or copper foam and an anodic deposition method in basic carbonate buffer solution was utilized for preparation of hierarchically structured NiFeO<sub>x</sub>/CuO nanosheets/nanowires for highperformance OER.

Steffen Czioska, Jianying Wang, Shangshang Zuo, Xue Teng and Zuofeng Chen\*

Page No. - Page No.

Hierarchically structured NiFeO<sub>x</sub>/CuO nanosheets/nanowires as an efficient electrocatalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction