---
source: Fang 等 - 2023 - Unveiling the electron configuration‐dependent oxygen evolution activity of 2D porous Sr‐substituted.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 38.671s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:32:06.976164Z
---

# RESEARCH ARTICLE

# Unveiling the electron configuration‐dependent oxygen evolution activity of 2D porous Sr‐substituted LaFeO3 perovskite through microwave shock

Guangyu Fang1 | Kaisi Liu1 | Miao Fan<sup>1</sup> | Jinglin Xian<sup>1</sup> | Zhiao Wu<sup>1</sup> | Liyun Wei1 | Haoran Tian1 | Huiyu Jiang<sup>1</sup> | Weilin Xu<sup>1</sup> | Huanyu Jin<sup>2</sup> | Jun Wan<sup>1</sup>

1 State Key Laboratory of New Textile Materials and Advanced Processing Technologies, Hubei Key Laboratory of Biomass Fibers and Eco‐Dyeing & Finishing, Wuhan Textile University, Wuhan, China

2 Institute for Sustainability, Energy and Resources, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia

#### Correspondence

Jun Wan, State Key Laboratory of New Textile Materials and Advanced Processing Technologies, Hubei Key Laboratory of Biomass Fibers and Eco‐ Dyeing & Finishing, Wuhan Textile University, Wuhan, Hubei 430200, China. Email: [wanj@wtu.edu.cn](mailto:wanj@wtu.edu.cn)

Huanyu Jin, Institute for Sustainability, Energy and Resources, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. Email: [huanyu.jin@adelaide.edu.au](mailto:huanyu.jin@adelaide.edu.au)

#### Funding information

National Natural Science Foundation of China, Grant/Award Number: 52203070; Open Fund of State Key Laboratory of New Textile Materials and Advanced Processing Technologies, Grant/Award Number: FZ2022005; Open Fund of Hubei Key Laboratory of Biomass Fiber and Ecological Dyeing and Finishing, Grant/Award Number: STRZ202203

#### Abstract

Developing an efficient and stable oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalyst is beneficial in various energy conversion and storage applications for achieving the "Carbon Neutrality" goal. Among the iron‐based perovskite oxides (AFeO3), LaFeO3 stands out as a preferred catalyst for electrocatalytic OER due to its exceptional selectivity in oxygen bonding at the A‐site. The introduction of A‐site substitution and controlled morphological engineering in perovskite structures has proven effective in enhancing the electrical conductivity and intrinsic catalytic activity. Nevertheless, the conventional A‐ site substitution approach often involves prolonged high‐temperature calcination, leading to the agglomeration of nanostructures, particularly in two‐ dimensional (2D) porous configurations. Herein, we introduce a novel method for synthesizing 2D porous LaFeO3 perovskite with A‐site Sr substitution using microwave shock. This microwave technique capitalizes on the benefits of transient heating and cooling, enabling simultaneous construction of 2D porous morphology and precise regulation of Sr substitution in one step. By conducting theoretical simulations of the electron configuration and analysis of crystal structure, we unveil the impact of Sr substitution on the OER activity of 2D porous LaFeO3. The synthesized La0.2Sr0.8FeO3 (LSFO‐8) catalyst exhibits an exceptional overpotential of 339 mV at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and a small Tafel slope of 56.84 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> in alkaline electrolyte. This investigation provides a fresh perspective for the design and engineering of electronic configuration in highly active 2D perovskite materials.

#### KEYWORDS

2D materials, electrocatalysis, microwave, oxygen evolution reaction, perovskite

Guangyu Fang, Kaisi Liu, and Miao Fan contributed equally to this study.

This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

© 2023 The Authors. Carbon Neutralization published by Wenzhou University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

# 1 | INTRODUCTION

The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is a crucial module in various renewable energy storage and conversion devices, including water electrolysis, carbon dioxide reduction, and rechargeable metal‐air batteries.[1–[8\]](#page-10-0) However, the intricate four‐proton coupled electron transfer process of OER poses significant challenges to achieving high energy conversion efficiency.[9–[12](#page-10-1)] Despite the recognition of traditional noble metal‐based electrocatalysts, such as RuO2 and IrO2, as benchmark materials for OER, their widespread deployment on a larger scale is restricted due to the high cost and inherent instability.[\[3\]](#page-10-2) Recently, perovskite oxides with a general formula of ABO3 (where A site represents an alkali metal or rare‐ earth metal atom, and B site denotes a transition metal atom) have emerged as promising alternatives to noble metal catalysts, owing to their cost‐effectiveness, abundant reserves, and versatile electronic structure.[[1,2,9,10,13](#page-10-0)–15] Among these, iron (Fe) based perovskite oxides (AFeO3) hold a particular allure due to their abundance, economic viability, and environmental friendliness. Previous work has identified that LaFeO3 has the highest selectivity of A‐site elements for bonding with the O element and is the most effective of all AFeO3 catalysts tested.[[14](#page-10-3)] LaFeO3 represents a typical perovskite oxide with a bandgap ranging from 2.0 to 2.7 eV.[\[16,17\]](#page-10-4) Structurally, it adopts a crystal structure in which the La cation is coordinated with 12 oxygen ions, while the Fe cation is coordinated with six oxygen ions to form aFeO6 octahedron. Unfortunately, despite the notable OER performance exhibited by LaFeO3, the majority of reported structures thus far are in the form of nanoparticles, characterized by restricted specific surface area, low mass activity, and inadequate electrical conductivity. These inherent limitations greatly impede its further optimization.

To achieve a harmonious equilibrium between the physical electronics underlying the inherent catalytic activity of LaFeO3 and the structural engineering targeting the generation of highly exposed active sites, it is crucial to explore effective synergies that integrate these two rational approaches to structural modification.[[10,18](#page-10-5)] Primarily, the incorporation of A‐site partial substitution has proven to be a highly effective approach for engineering the catalytic activity of perovskites, as it capitalizes on the crystal structure modifications arising from the varying cation radii at the A‐site.[[14,19,20](#page-10-3)] The contribution of the 4f electrons of the A‐site cation to the state density near the Fermi level will directly affect the electronic conductivity of perovskite.[[14](#page-10-3)] Simultaneously, the introduction of the A‐site defect will cause the lattice to expand due to the increase of oxygen vacancy, and optimize the eg orbital occupancy of the B‐site transition metal, which greatly improves the intrinsic OER activity of perovskite.[\[21\]](#page-10-6) For example, Lu et al.[\[22\]](#page-10-7) demonstrated that the incorporation of low‐valence Sr2+ in LaCoO3 increased the concentration of oxygen vacancies, thereby improving the OER activity and stability; Shen et al.[[23](#page-10-8)] reported that the incorporation of Sr into LaFeO3 effectively enhanced the Fe4+ state and strengthened the Fe–O bonds, resulting in the optimization of surface adsorption energetics for \*OH intermediates. This investigation showed a close correlation between the enhancement of OER activity and the presence of Fe4+ state. Apart from A‐site substitution, the structural engineering of perovskite oxides has also been recognized to significantly influence their catalytic activity. In contrast to conventional perovskite nanoparticles, two‐ dimensional (2D) structures offer increased accessibility to active sites and ion transport channels.[24–[27\]](#page-10-9) Moreover, the additional incorporation of a porous architecture within 2D structures enables an even more pronounced optimization of OER performance in terms of dynamic aspects.[\[28,29\]](#page-10-10) Nevertheless, the existing approach for A‐site substitution typically involves prolonged high‐temperature calcination, which often results in the agglomeration of nanostructures, thereby impeding the realization of 2D porous LaFeO3. [\[30,31](#page-10-11)] Therefore, it is of paramount significance, and presents a formidable challenge to devise a methodology capable of simultaneously addressing the A‐site substitution and the formation of a 2D porous structure in one‐step synthesis.

Over the past decade, microwave technology has emerged as a promising avenue for precisely optimizing the electronic configuration and morphology of nanomaterials.[\[32](#page-10-12)–35] In contrast to conventional energy conversion modes, the interaction of microwaves with matter relies on dipole loss, conductive loss, or magnetic loss to facilitate energy conversion.[[36,37](#page-11-0)] This efficient energy conversion mechanism enables rapid, instantaneous, and selective reaction processes. Considering its favorable kinetic and thermodynamic attributes, microwave reaction offers a well‐suited approach for the precise introduction of foreign elements into the parent matrix and the controlled growth of dimensional morphologies. Actually, Sukumar et al.[\[32\]](#page-10-12) have successfully synthesized Ca2+ substituted La2CuO4 perovskite nanostructures using microwave combustion, resulting in the attainment of stable and uniform distribution of elements. In our previous work, we also have effectively employed microwave strategies to achieve precise control over the content of foreign elements and the controlled evolution of 2D morphology.[\[38](#page-11-1)] Therefore, the microwave has the potential to efficiently produce the high‐performance 2D porous oxygen‐rich LaFeO3. Hence, leveraging the distinctive

27693335, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cml2.94 by University O'Seenee, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensense.

reaction mechanism inherent to microwave technology, it holds promising prospects for accomplishing the one-step fabrication of precisely controlled A-site substitution in 2D porous LaFeO<sub>3</sub> structures.

Herein, we present a successful synthesis of Srsubstituted 2D porous LaFeO3 utilizing a microwave shock method. This approach capitalizes on the transient heating and cooling characteristics of the microwave reaction, which enables an optimal balance between precise A-site substitution and the design of 2D porous structure. Theoretical calculations reveal that the successful incorporation of Sr effectively modulates the electronic state of LaFeO3, optimizing the Fe-O band electron configuration, and reducing the formation energy of oxygen vacancies. The abundance of oxygen defects and the well-coordinated 2D porous configuration collectively contribute to a substantial enhancement in the electrocatalytic OER activity of LaFeO3. The synthesized Sr-substituted 2D porous La<sub>0.2</sub>Sr<sub>0.8</sub>FeO<sub>3</sub> (LSFO-8) catalyst exhibited excellent OER performance under alkaline conditions, with an overpotential of 339 mV, and a Tafel slope of 56.84 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. This study presents a novel pathway for the systematic design and engineering of electronic structures in highly active 2D perovskite materials.

#### RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

# Theoretical prediction through **DFT** calculation

The introduction of a low valence of Sr will increase the concentration of oxygen vacancy and regulate the oxidation state of Fe. Figure 1a shows a schematic diagram of the electron energy levels LFO and LSFO-X. With the low valence Sr substitution,  $Fe^{3+}$   $(t_{2g}^3-e_g^2)$  of LFO loses an electron to  $Fe^{4+}$   $(t_{2g}^3-e_g^{-1})$  of LSFO with  $e_g$ filling number of 1.[23] To gain deeper insights into the influence of the perovskite structure on OER activity, we performed density functional theory (DFT) calculations to investigate the total state density (TDOS) and partial state density (PDOS) of LSFO-8, La<sub>0.5</sub>Sr<sub>0.5</sub>FeO<sub>3</sub> (LSFO-5), La<sub>0.8</sub>Sr<sub>0.2</sub>FeO<sub>3</sub> (LSFO-2), and LaFeO<sub>3</sub> (LFO). The calculated part of the state density diagram of the O 2p band center of LSFO-X is presented in Figure 1c. The O-p band centers of LFO, LSFO-2, LSFO-5, and LSFO-8 are located at -3.86, -3.56, -2.69, and -2.17 eV, respectively. These results demonstrate a reduction in the distance between the center of O 2p band and the Fermi level. This relative position serves as a crucial parameter that effectively predicts the OER electrocatalytic performance of

<span id="page-2-0"></span>FIGURE 1 (a) The electron configurations of LFO Fe<sup>3+</sup> (3d<sup>5</sup>) and LSFO-8 Fe<sup>4+</sup> (3d<sup>4</sup>). (Color code-Red-O atoms, Gray-Fe atoms, and Green-La or Sr atoms). (b) Density of states (DOS) plots of LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO catalysts. (c) Partial density of states (PDOS) diagrams of surface O p-band center of LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO. (d) Calculated O p and Fe d band center for LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO.

perovskite oxides. Higher O 2p band centers, in relation to the fermi level, correspond to lower energies for the formation of oxygen vacancy and oxygen‐metal covalent bond, thereby enhancing the electrocatalytic performance.[\[3,9,39,40](#page-10-2)] Upon the introduction of low‐valence Sr, the oxidation state of the B‐site ions increases to maintain charge neutrality.[\[2\]](#page-10-13) Meanwhile, the center of the Fe–d band also moves closer to the fermi level, leading to a reduction in the distance between the O–p band center and the Fe–d band center (Figure [1d](#page-2-0)). This favorable trend enhances the OER performance.[\[19\]](#page-10-14) Considering the advantages of 2D porous nanosheet morphology with a large active area, the precise adjustment of LSFO‐X structure offers a promising approach to effectively improve the electrocatalytic activity of perovskite oxide‐based catalyst for OER. Therefore, it is imperative to undertake the synthesis and preparation of 2D porous LSFO‐X perovskite oxide electrocatalysts with meticulous Sr substitution.

# 2.2 | Synthesis and characterization

To achieve precise regulation over Sr substitution with a 2D porous structure, we employed a vapour‐phase microwave shock strategy with transient temperature changes to quickly synthesize Sr‐substituted LSFO‐X (LSFO‐8, LSFO‐5, LSFO‐2, and LFO). Figure [2](#page-3-0) illustrates the schematic process for the preparation of LSFO‐X in a modified microwave oven equipped with a real‐time temperature detector. Glucose was utilized as an initiator to fabricate 2D structures, while lanthanum and ferric nitrate served as metal precursors for the perovskite materials. Strontium nitrate was incorporated as a crucial agent for Sr substitution. Following thorough mixing, the homogeneous mixture was transferred to a custom‐ designed quartz container surrounded by carbon nanotubes (CNTs). The reaction unit was placed in a modified microwave oven equipped with a real‐time temperature detection. During the microwave heating process, rapid heating and cooling were achieved by utilizing reactants with a high dielectric constant and dielectric loss of CNTs.[\[41](#page-11-2)] This unique vapour‐phase microwave reaction process facilitated the one‐step construction of 2D porous structures while ensuring precise control over the Sr content. Within a 10‐min microwave process, 2D porous LSFO‐X was obtained without any postprocedures. Detailed experimental procedures and apparatus parameters can be found in Section [4.](#page-9-0)

To gain deeper insights into the microwave reaction process, the temperature fluctuations within the reaction unit were monitored using an infrared detector (Figure [3a\)](#page-4-0). The interaction between microwave and carbon‐based material (CNT and glucose) resulted in a rapid temperature rise, reaching up to 750°C. The nitrate substance and the glucose‐reducing agent encountered a sudden high temperature, leading to a localized explosion. The substantial generation of gas caused the molten glucose to be blown, resulting in the formation of LSFO‐X perovskite materials with 2D nanosheet structures. The inset graph depicts a physical photo of the reaction unit after 6 min of microwave reaction, clearly showing the intense heating conduction phenomenon. Based on the rapid synthesis scheme of the 2D porous structure, the morphology characterization of

<span id="page-3-0"></span>FIGURE 2 Schematics illustrating the synthesis of 2D porous LSFO‐X by the microwave shock method.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>FIGURE 3 (a) Real‐time temperature test of samples heated by microwave method. The inset images are physical photos of the reaction unit at 6 min. (b) Scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of La0.2Sr0.8FeO3 (LSFO‐8). (c) Atomic force microscopy (AFM) image of LSFO‐8. (d) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of LSFO‐8. (e) The HRTEM image of LSFO‐8. (f) The corresponding elective electron diffraction (SAED) patterns of LSFO‐8. (g) The STEM images of LSFO‐8. (h) Corresponding EDS mapping of LSFO‐8.

the resulting products was further investigated. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was employed to examine the surface morphology of LSFO‐8 and LFO catalysts (Figure [3b](#page-4-0)). The LSFO‐8 exhibited a flexible and coiled large 2D nanosheet structure with a uniform distribution of porous features. The structure of LFO was analogous (Supporting Information: Figure S1). Atomic force microscopy (AFM) analysis confirmed that the LSFO‐8 nanosheets possessed a uniform thickness of approximately 1.5 nm (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0). Moreover, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images revealed that LSFO‐8 self‐ assembled into 2D porous nanosheets (Figure [3d](#page-4-0)). The corresponding high‐resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) image shows clear lattice stripes (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0). The d‐spacing value of 0.273 nm corresponded to the (110) crystal plane of rhomboid phase LSFO‐8. The selective electron diffraction (SAED) pattern displayed a polycrystalline ring, which corresponded to the (110), (030), and (220) crystal planes of LSFO‐8 (Figure [3f](#page-4-0)). High‐angle ring dark field (HADDF) analysis confirmed the spatial arrangement of perovskite nanosheets, further confirming the self‐assembly of the 2D porous structure from particles (Figure [3g](#page-4-0)). The energy‐dispersive X‐ray spectroscopy (EDX) mapping demonstrated the uniform distribution of La, Sr, Fe, and O elements within the 2D porous LSFO‐8 nanosheet (Figure [3h](#page-4-0)). This confirms that each element was successfully incorporated into the perovskite lattice and that there was no segregation or aggregation of detectable impurities. Additionally, the specific surface areas of 2D porous LFO and LSFO-8 nanosheets were measured using the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method (Supporting Information: Figure S3). The measured specific surface areas were approximately 14.286 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> for LFO and 15.854 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> for LSFO-8, showing little variation of the area results (Supporting Information: Figure S11). This 2D porous structure enhances the exposure of active sites on the catalyst. The successful synthesis of LSFO-8 nanosheets with a well-defined 2D porous structure validates the rationality of this method. Therefore, we anticipate that this rapid microwave synthesis strategy can be extended to the preparation of other 2D perovskite catalysts, although further investigations are necessary to verify this hypothesis.

Subsequently, we used similar methods to synthesize SFO, LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO catalysts. Through the precise regulation of Sr by microwave shock, we investigated the structure variations of LFO with different levels of Sr substitution. The SFO, LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO catalysts powder were measured by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Supporting Information: Figure S4, the primary diffraction peak exhibits a shift toward larger angles as the Sr doping increases. This peak shift can be attributed to alterations in lattice parameters resulting from the distinct ionic radii of Sr<sup>2+</sup> (1.44 Å) and La<sup>3+</sup> (1.36 Å) cations, indicating favorable solid solution properties. [42] The XRD patterns of the catalysts were further refined by Rietveld analysis (Supporting Information: Figures S5-S8), and the corresponding parameters were presented in Supporting Information: Table S1. LFO and LSFO-2 are demonstrated as the orthorhombic phase, while LSFO-5 and LSFO-8 are shown as rhombohedral phases with pbmn space groups. As shown in Figure 4a, the corresponding Rietveld refinement analysis of LSFO-8 exhibits rhombohedral phases with pbmn space groups (PDF# 01-082-1964). The Fe-O bond length decreases from 2.01 Å for LFO to 1.939 Å for LSFO-8. The reduction of lattice parameters and Fe-O bond length from the refined XRD patterns is attributed to the higher oxidation states of Fe4+ induced by Sr2+ (Supporting Information: Table S2). Notably, in the case of SFO, we encountered difficulties in synthesizing the pure phase, resulting in the appearance of miscellaneous peaks in the XRD pattern (Supporting Information: Figure S8). The refinement results demonstrate the values of  $x^2$  greater than 60 and  $R_{\rm wp}$  exceeding 23%. Supporting Information: Figure S9 presents the Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy spectra of LFO and LSFO-8 catalysts in the wavenumber range 400-4000 cm<sup>-1</sup>. The peak at about  $556\,\mathrm{cm}^{-1}$  can be attributed to the characteristic of the Fe–O stretching vibration in the FeO<sub>6</sub> octahedrons. [43,44] The whole spectra were quite featureless, confirming again the purity of the synthesized catalysts.

Then, the surface chemical composition and oxidation states of LSFO-8 and LFO samples were thoroughly investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). All spectra were calibrated with the binding energy of C 1 s at 284.8 eV. The full-wide scan spectra of LSFO-8 and LFO are presented in Figure 4b, revealing a distinct peak related to Sr 3d in the LSFO-8 catalyst. The highresolution spectra of the La 3d region of LFO and LSFO-8 exhibit two peaks at 834.7 and 851.4 eV (Figure 4c), corresponding to La 3d<sub>5/2</sub> and La 3d<sub>3/2</sub> (spin-orbit splitting 16.7 eV), respectively. [16] Figure 4d shows the Sr 3d spectrum of LSFO-8, which can be divided into four peaks of 133.7, 132.3, 135.5, and 134.1 eV. [45] The lower energy component is referred to as "lattice Sr," while the higher energy component is attributed to "surface Sr." [46] The Fe  $2p_{2/3}$  spectrum is presented in Figure 4e. where the binding energy value of Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub> with the satellite peak at 719 eV indicates the presence of Fe<sup>3+,[47]</sup> Three peaks observed at 709.6, 711, and 712 eV in both LSFO-8 and LFO can be assigned to  $Fe^{2+}$ ,  $Fe^{3+}$ , and  $Fe^{4+}$  of Fe  $2p_{3/2}$ , respectively. [42,48] The corresponding binding energy and relative area ratios of different oxygen species, estimated from the peak area of the fitted sub-peaks, are presented in Supporting Information: Table S3. The relative content of Fe<sup>4+</sup> in LSFO-8 is increased compared with LFO. This can be attributed to the introduction of the low-valent Sr2+ state, which disrupts the valence equilibrium of the LFO, leading to a higher oxidation state of the B-site ion. The appropriate increase in Fe<sup>4+</sup> in LSFO-8 provides favorable binding strength for the reaction intermediate and contributes to the enhanced OER performance. Moreover, the O 1s spectrum of LSFO-8 and LFO exhibits three peaks at 529.5 eV (labeled as O 1), 531.8 eV (labeled as O 2), and 533.8 eV (labeled as O 3) in Figure 4f. [49] Oxygen species with low binding energies exhibit the characteristics of lattice oxygen, whereas O 2 and O 3 associated with the presence of oxygen vacancies may be associated with oxygen species absorbed on low-coordinated surfaces, such as hydroxyl and/or carbonate species. As per the previous work report, the concentration of surface oxygen vacancies can be estimated by the ratio of oxygen species associated with surface oxygen vacancies  $(O_2^{2-})$  or O<sup>-</sup>) to lattice oxygen species (O<sub>ads</sub>/O<sub>latt</sub>). The relative areas of the corresponding oxygen species are shown in Supporting Information: Table S3. The O 2/O 1 ratio follows the order: LSFO-8 > LFO. The LSFO sample exhibited a relatively high O 2/O 1 ratio compared to LFO, suggesting that Sr substitution can enhance oxygen vacancy formation.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>FIGURE 4 (a) The rietveld refinement result of La0.2Sr0.8FeO3 (LSFO‐8). (b) Survey X‐ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of LSFO‐8 and LaFeO3 (LFO) catalysts. The high resolution of LSFO‐8 and LFO XPS spectra (c) La 3d. (d) Sr 3d. (e) Fe 3d. and (f) O 1 s. (g) The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra of LSFO‐8 and LFO. (h) Corresponding Tauc plots of LSFO‐8 and LFO, respectively.

The increase of oxygen vacancies induced by Sr doping was further verified through electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) measurements. As depicted in Figure [4g,](#page-6-0) EPR signals at the g = 2.004 position were detected for both the pristine LFO and LSFO‐8 electrocatalysts, corresponding to the presence of trapped electrons in oxygen vacancies.[\[50](#page-11-9)] Notably, the LSFO‐8 catalyst exhibited a higher EPR signal compared to the LFO catalyst, providing compelling evidence for its elevated concentration of oxygen vacancies. Furthermore, the UV‐VIS absorption spectrum revealed that the E2 bandgap of LSFO‐8 measured 2.53 eV, which is 0.08 eV lower than the E1 bandgap of undoped LFO (Figure [4h\)](#page-6-0). This observed reduction in the bandgap width signifies an improvement in electrical conductivity, thereby facilitating efficient electron transport throughout the material.[[51\]](#page-11-10)

# 2.3 | Catalytic activity for OER

As shown in Figure [5a,](#page-7-0) the OER catalytic process on perovskite electrocatalysts can obey the following typical single‐electron charge‐transfer process on metal‐ion centers.[\[3,5\]](#page-10-2)

$$OH^{-} + MOH \rightarrow MO + H_{2}O + e^{-},$$
 (1)

$$OH^- + MO \rightarrow MOOH + e^-,$$
 (2)

$$OH^- + MOOH \rightarrow MOO + H_2O + e^-,$$
 (3)

$$MOO \rightarrow M + O_2,$$
 (4)

$$M + OH^{-} \rightarrow MOH + e^{-}. \tag{5}$$

<span id="page-7-0"></span>FIGURE 5 The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance of LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO in 1M KOH. (a) The reaction mechanism of the prepared electrocatalysts during the OER. (b) LSV curves. (c) Overpotentials at  $10 \text{ mA} \text{ cm}^{-2}$  and mass activity of catalysts calculated at 1.57 V. (d) The corresponding Tafel plots. (e) Overpotential and Tafel plots comparison of LSFO-8 and other recently reported advanced La/Sr-based perovskite-type electrocatalysts. (f) Corresponding EIS spectra. (g) Estimation of  $C_{\rm dl}$  by plotting current density variation against scan rate to fit linear regression. (h) Chronopotentiometry test of LSFO-8 at the current density of  $10 \text{ mA} \text{ cm}^{-2}$ .

This whole process involves a series of reaction intermediates, including HO\*, O\*, and HOO\*, after which O<sub>2</sub> generation and desorption occur. According to the previous report, the increase of a certain amount of Fe<sup>4+</sup> will improve the adsorption efficiency of HO\*, the problem of HO\* rate limitation is avoided, thus speeding up the OER kinetics.<sup>[52]</sup> Following the Sr substitution, the increased concentration of Fe<sup>4+</sup> will accelerate the OER process. Additionally, the relevant EPR and XPS results have shown that Sr substitution elevates the concentration of surface oxygen, which is closely related to highly oxidized oxygen  ${\rm O_2}^{2-}$ . As the strongly electrophilic reactants, the highly oxidized  $O_2^{2-}$  and  $O^-$  oxygen species may attract OER intermediates (HO\*, O\*, or HOO\*), facilitating the OER process. Combined with the 2D porous structure can provide several inherent advantages, including an enlarged surface area that increases the density of active sites and efficient transfer of reactants/products through their structure, thereby effectively enhancing OER.<sup>[24,28]</sup>

To explore the impact of structural changes resulting from Sr substitution in LFO on the OER performance, we evaluated the OER activity of LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO electrocatalysts. Figure 5a illustrates the typical four-step OER catalytic process for the as-prepared perovskite electrocatalysts. Following three cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles, the normalized linear voltammetric scanning curve (LSV) profiles were obtained (Figure 5b). Notably, LSFO-8 exhibited a significantly lower overpotential of 339.2 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. This value is 42, 53, and 70 mV lower than those of LSFO-5 (381 mV), LSFO-2 (392 mV), and LFO (409 mV), respectively. For reference, the overpotential of the benchmark OER catalyst RuO2 was assessed, and LSFO-8 demonstrated comparable performance. Furthermore, LSFO-8 exhibits a remarkable mass activity

 $(20.57 \,\mathrm{Ag^{-1}}$  at 1.57 V vs. RHE), which is nearly nine times higher than that of LFO electrocatalyst (Figure 5c). The higher mass activity of LSFO-8 electrocatalyst indicates its superior cost-efficiency compared to the other prepared electrocatalysts. The tafel slope can be used as an important parameter to judge the kinetic properties of OER. As shown in Figure 5d, LSFO-8 exhibited a Tafel slope of 56.84 mV dec<sup>-2</sup>, surpassing that of LFO  $(77.37 \text{ mV dec}^{-2})$ , LSFO-2  $(65.09 \text{ mV dec}^{-2})$ , and LSFO-5 (58.89 mV dec<sup>-2</sup>). This indicates an improvement in the OER activity of LSFO-8 perovskite oxide through A-site Sr substitution. Additionally, we summarized reported overpotential and tafel slope values of other La/Sr-base perovskite electrocatalysts in recent years (Figure 5e). Remarkably, the low overpotential and Tafel slope of LSFO-8 electrocatalyst exhibit favorable performance comparable to state-of-the-art perovskite electrocatalyst, rendering it promising for practical applications. The relevant specific details are displayed in Supporting Information: Table S3.

To investigate the kinetic properties of the eletrocatalysts, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were conducted. The results obtained align with the trends observed in the LSV curves. LSFO-8 exhibited a relatively small radius and a charge transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ) of 5.3  $\Omega$  (Figure 5f), indicating enhanced charge transfer on the catalyst-electrolyte surface and improved OER performance. Through the low-frequency period, LSFO-8 electrode also exhibits significantly accelerated diffusion process of the reaction (Supporting Information: Figure S12). The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of the catalysts was estimated based on the electrochemical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{d1}$ ). CV curves were performed for all the catalysts with scan rates ranging from 2 to 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Supporting Information: Figure S13). Figure 5g shows that the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of LSFO-8 electrocatalyst is 26.68 mF m<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of LSFO-5 (17.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), LSFO-2 (16.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and LFO (10.03 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). The slight variation observed in the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) results suggests that fluctuations in catalyst-specific surface area do not primarily account for the variability in OER performance (Supporting Information: Figure S11). These findings indicate that LSFO-8, with A-site Sr substitution, possesses a larger ECSA, thereby significantly increasing the number of exposed active sites participating in OER process and improving its electrochemical activity. Overall, these results collectively validate that A-site Sr substitution in LSFO-8 perovskite oxides can effectively enhance conductivity and accelerate charge transfer during OER.

Moreover, the long-term stability of the catalyst is a crucial factor for its practical application. To assess the

stability and durability of LSFO-8 for OER, chronopotentiometry measurements were conducted at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. As depicted in Figure 5h, LSFO-8 demonstrated remarkable stability during OER, with no significant potential increase observed within 16 h. Additionally, the LSV curves were examined before and after the stability test, and the electrochemical properties of LSFO-8 remained largely unchanged. Furthermore, the XRD patterns and surface microstructure of LSFO-8 were investigated after the OER operation. The XRD analysis revealed that the phase composition of LSFO-8 remained stable (Supporting Information: Figure S14). The SEM image of LSFO-8 showed that the microstructure remained unaltered, maintaining its stable 2D porous structure (Supporting Information: Figure S15). HRTEM image showed that LSFO-8 retained a relatively perfect crystal surface structure (Supporting Information: Figure S16). These results indicate that the 2D porous structure and composition of LSFO-8 perovskite are maintained, which is beneficial to OER stability.

#### 3 | CONCLUSION

In conclusion, we have successfully synthesized 2D porous LSFO-X perovskite electrocatalysts utilizing a microwave shock strategy for OER. Through DFT theoretical calculations, we have identified that A-site Sr substitution can optimize the electronic structure of LFO perovskite electrocatalyst. This substitution induces a shift of the O 2p band center toward the Fermi level, resulting in reduced formation energy of oxygen vacancy and improved electrocatalytic performance. The precise regulation of Sr2+ in LFO was achieved through highenergy microwave shock, leading to the introduction of oxygen vacancies and Fe in high valence states. The enhanced oxygen vacancies and high-valence Fe concentration optimize the conductivity of LSFO-X and promote the improvement of OER performance, especially in the case of LSFO-8. Combined with the structural modifications with the large surface area provided by the 2D porous structure, it will further improve the OER performance of the electrocatalyst. The resulting LSFO-8 catalyst exhibits a low overpotential of 339.2 mV and a Tafel slope of 56.84 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, demonstrating excellent OER activity. These findings provide valuable insights into the structure-property relationship of perovskite electrocatalysts, which are essential for identifying potential catalysts for practical applications in OERs. Moreover, this rapid and high-energy microwave shock strategy provides a novel approach for precisely tailoring the configuration of 2D porous perovskite oxides.

### <span id="page-9-0"></span>4 | EXPERIMENTAL SECTION

#### 4.1 | Materials and chemicals

Glucose,  $La(NO_3)_3 \cdot 6H_2O$ ,  $Fe(NO_3)_3 \cdot 9H_2O$ ,  $Sr(NO_3)_2$ , and  $NH_4NO_3$  were all procured from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. in China. CNT, Carbon Black, Nafion, and  $RuO_2$  were purchased commercially. Additionally, all the reagents had no further purification.

# 4.2 | Synthesis of LSFO-8

In the synthesis of LSFO-8,  $0.4\,\mathrm{g}$  of glucose,  $0.5\,\mathrm{g}$  of NH<sub>4</sub>NO<sub>3</sub>,  $0.0173\,\mathrm{g}$  La(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O,  $0.0339\,\mathrm{g}$  of Sr(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> and  $0.0808\,\mathrm{g}$  of Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·9H<sub>2</sub>O mix well and grind, and then place in clean quartz tube (customized quartz tube, specification for 12 mm inner diameter and a wall thickness was 2 mm). The quartz tube was placed within a container surrounded by an appropriate amount of CNTs. Subsequently, the reaction unit was placed in a household 900 W microwave oven (Galanz, G90F25CN3LN). Within just 10 min, 2D porous LSFO nanosheets were obtained.

# 4.3 | Synthesis of LaFeO<sub>3</sub>

For LaFeO<sub>3</sub> (LFO), 0.4 g of glucose, 0.5 g of NH<sub>4</sub>NO<sub>3</sub>, 0.0866 g of La(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 0.0808 g of Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·9H<sub>2</sub>O were mixed well and ground evenly. Under the same conditions, 2D porous LFO was obtained by microwave within 10 min. 2D porous La<sub>0.5</sub>Sr<sub>0.5</sub>FeO<sub>3</sub> (LSFO-5), La<sub>0.8</sub>Sr<sub>0.2</sub>FeO<sub>3</sub> (LSFO-2), and SrFeO<sub>3</sub> (SFO) perovskite oxide nanosheets are similarly synthesized through the microwave shock method by replacing lanthanum nitrate hexahydrate with strontium nitrate.

#### 4.4 | Characterization

The XRD patterns of LSFO-8, LSFO-5, LSFO-2, and LFO catalysts were conducted using an X-ray diffractometer (XRD, Empyrean). Scanning electron microscope (SEM, TESCAN MIRA LMS) and TEM (JEOL JEM 2100F) equipped with an energy-dispersive spectrometer (EDS) were carried out to observe the morphology and microstructure of the electrocatalysts. LSFO nanosheet thickness was measured using AFM (Bruker Dimension Icon). The surface electronic structures and lattice defects of the electrocatalysts were investigated on XPS (Thermo Scientific K-Alpha). A Bruker EMXplus-6/1 spectrometer (EPR) was performed to test the oxygen

vacancy concentration of the electrocatalyst. The chemical bonds of the LSFO-8 and LFO samples are characterized by using an infrared spectrum (Nicolet iS50R) recorded in the 4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> to 500 cm<sup>-1</sup> range. The real-time temperature inside the reaction unit was detected by an infrared detector with model Raytek M13.

#### 4.5 | Electrochemical measurements

The electrochemical measurements were tested with a CHI 660E workstation and the rotating disk electrode of the PINE instrument (Model AFMSRCE) at room temperature. Hg/HgO electrode (1 M KOH) was used as a reference electrode while the Pt coil as a counter electrode. Seven milligrams of the catalyst powder and 3 mg carbon black were dissolved in a mixed solvent composed of 700 µL deionized water, 300 µL isopropyl alcohol, and 20 µL (5 wt%) Nafion solution. The mixture solution was sonicated under ice bath conditions for about 50 min until a homogeneous ink was formed. Five microliters of the sonicated mixed ink were loaded onto a mirror-polished glassy carbon electrode with an area of 0.07 cm<sup>-2</sup>, with a catalyst loading of approximately 0.49 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. For the OER, the test was carried out in 1 M KOH alkaline solution under argon flow. All the potential of the electrochemical test in this article have been transformed to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), and the correction formula of the reference electrode is as follows:

E(RHE) = E(Hg/HgO) + E(Hg/HgO vs. SHE) + 0.059 pH.

The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) technique was applied to measure the OER activity of the samples from 1 to 2 V versus RHE, the scan rate was 5 mV s $^{-1}$ . The EIS was applied at 10 mV of amplitude with a frequency range from 0.1 to  $10^6$  Hz. The ECSA of the samples were evaluated by the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ), which was tested by CV measurements with a different scan rate of 2–20 mV s $^{-1}$ . Long-term durability was tested by chronopotentiometry technique at a steady current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ .

#### 4.6 | Computational method

The Vienna Abinitio simulation package was used to perform DFT calculations. We employed the spin-polarized Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA), incorporating Hubbard U corrections (GGA + U). Specifically, we utilized the GGA + U with a U-J value of 3 in

27693325, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cnl2.94 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

our calculations. To represent the electronic structure, we employed all‐electron plane‐wave basis sets with an energy cutoff of 400 eV and the projector augmented wave method. For simulating LaFeO3, we employed a surface model with p (1 × 1 × 1) unit cell periodicity. Brillouin zone integrations were sampled using a (2 × 2 × 3) Monkhorst‐Pack mesh. The optimization process employed the conjugate gradient algorithm with a convergence threshold of 1 × 10−<sup>6</sup> eV for the total energy.

# AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

Guangyu Fang: Conceptualization; data curation; writing—original draft. Kaisi Liu: Data curation; software. Miao Fan: Data curation; methodology. Jinglin Xian: Formal analysis; software. Zhiao Wu: Formal analysis. Liyun Wei: Methodology. Haoran Tian: Software. Huiyu Jiang: Formal analysis; funding acquisition. Weilin Xu: Funding acquisition. Huanyu Jin: Conceptualization; supervision; validation; writing review & editing. Jun Wan: Conceptualization; data curation; funding acquisition; supervision; validation; writing—original draft; writing—review & editing.

### ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors acknowledge financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52203070), the Open Fund of State Key Laboratory of New Textile Materials and Advanced Processing Technologies (FZ2022005), and the Open Fund of Hubei Key Laboratory of Biomass Fiber and Ecological Dyeing and Finishing (STRZ202203). Prof. Jun Wan expresses gratitude for the financial support provided by the China Scholarship Council (CSC) Visiting Scholar Program. Huanyu Jin gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Institute for Sustainability, Energy and Resources, the University of Adelaide, the Future Making Fellowship.

#### CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT

Data will be made available on request.

# REFERENCES

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[1] M. Zhang, G. Jeerh, P. Zou, R. Lan, M. Wang, H. Wang, S. Tao, Mater. Today 2021, 49, 351.
- <span id="page-10-13"></span>[2] X. Miao, L. Wu, Y. Lin, X. Yuan, J. Zhao, W. Yan, S. Zhou, L. Shi, Chem. Commun. 2019, 55, 1442.
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>[3] J. Li, Nano‐Micro Lett. 2022, 14, 112.
- [4] P. Babar, J. Mahmood, R. V. Maligal‐Ganesh, S. J. Kim, Z. Xue, C. T. Yavuz, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 20218.
- [5] Z. Li, P. Wei, G. Wang, Energy Fuels 2022, 36, 11724.

- [6] Y. Wang, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhao, X. Ge, Q. Lu, T. Zhang, D. Xie, M. Li, Y. Bu, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 451, 138710.
- [7] X. Pei, Y. Mu, X. Dong, C. Ding, L. Xu, M. Cui, C. Meng, Y. Zhang, Carbon Neutralization 2023, 2, 115.
- [8] Y. Wei, M. Zheng, W. Zhu, H. Pang, Carbon Neutralization 2023, 2, 271.
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>[9] D. Liu, P. Zhou, H. Bai, H. Ai, X. Du, M. Chen, D. Liu, W. F. Ip, K. H. Lo, C. T. Kwok, S. Chen, S. Wang, G. Xing, X. Wang, H. Pan, Small 2021, 17, 2101605.
- <span id="page-10-5"></span>[10] H. Wang, M. Zhou, P. Choudhury, H. Luo, Appl. Mater. Today 2019, 16, 56.
- [11] Y. Li, X. Du, J. Huang, C. Wu, Y. Sun, G. Zou, C. Yang, J. Xiong, Small 2019, 15, 1901980.
- [12] C. Z. Yuan, H. Zhao, S. Huang, J. Li, L. Zhang, W. Zhao, Y. Weng, X. Zhang, S. Ye, Y. Chen, Carbon Neutralization 2023, 2, 467.
- [13] Y. Zhu, Q. Lin, Y. Zhong, H. A. Tahini, Z. Shao, H. Wang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2020, 13, 3361.
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>[14] X. Li, H. Zhao, J. Liang, Y. Luo, G. Chen, X. Shi, S. Lu, S. Gao, J. Hu, Q. Liu, X. Sun, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 6650.
- [15] F. Dong, L. Li, Z. Kong, X. Xu, Y. Zhang, Z. Gao, B. Dongyang, M. Ni, Q. Liu, Z. Lin, Small 2021, 17, 2006638.
- <span id="page-10-4"></span>[16] W. Kexin, A. Andac, W. Yinxu, Y. Gang, X. Ruzhen, L. Bo, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2021, 303, 120899.
- [17] K. Peng, L. Fu, H. Yang, J. Ouyang, Sci. Rep. 2016, 6, 19723.
- [18] H. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Pi, Q. Shao, Y. Tan, X. Huang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 2316.
- <span id="page-10-14"></span>[19] W. Xu, N. Apodaca, H. Wang, L. Yan, G. Chen, M. Zhou, D. Ding, P. Choudhury, H. Luo, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 5074.
- [20] J. Li, F. Yang, Y. Du, M. Jiang, X. Cai, Q. Hu, J. Zhang, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 451, 138646.
- <span id="page-10-6"></span>[21] B. P. Barbero, J. A. Gamboa, L. E. Cadús, Appl. Catal. B 2006, 65, 21.
- <span id="page-10-7"></span>[22] Y. Lu, A. Ma, Y. Yu, R. Tan, C. Liu, P. Zhang, D. Liu, J. Gui, ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng. 2019, 7, 2906.
- <span id="page-10-8"></span>[23] Z. Shen, Y. Zhuang, W. Li, X. Huang, F. E. Oropeza, E. J. M. Hensen, J. P. Hofmann, M. Cui, A. Tadich, D. Qi, J. Cheng, J. Li, K. H. L. Zhang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 4407.
- <span id="page-10-9"></span>[24] W. Zhang, K. Zhou, Small 2017, 13, 1700806.
- [25] J. Zhou, Y. Dou, A. Zhou, L. Shu, Y. Chen, J. R. Li, ACS Energy Lett. 2018, 3, 1655.
- [26] H. Y. Jin, H. M. Yu, H. B. Li, K. Davey, T. Song, U. Paik, S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202206050.
- [27] H. Jin, Q. Gu, B. Chen, C. Tang, Y. Zheng, H. Zhang, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, Chemistry 2020, 6, 2382.
- <span id="page-10-10"></span>[28] H. Chen, X. Liang, Y. Liu, X. Ai, T. Asefa, X. Zou, Adv. Mater. 2020, 32, 2002435.
- [29] B. Zhao, J. Fu, C. Zhou, L. Yu, M. Qiu, Small 2023, 19, 2301917.
- <span id="page-10-11"></span>[30] P. Li, R. Zhang, N. Liu, S. Royer, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2016, 203, 174.
- [31] Q. Li, J. Wu, T. Wu, H. Jin, N. Zhang, J. Li, W. Liang, M. Liu, L. Huang, J. Zhou, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2102002.
- <span id="page-10-12"></span>[32] M. Sukumar, L. J. Kennedy, J. J. Vijaya, B. Al‐Najar, M. Bououdina, G. Mudhana, Vacuum 2019, 167, 407.
- [33] S. Kang, L. Zhang, M. He, Y. Zheng, L. Cui, D. Sun, B. Hu, Carbon 2018, 137, 19.
- [34] G. Yang, S. J. Park, Materials 2019, 12, 1177.

27693325, 2023, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cnl2.94 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [35] F. K. Butt, A. S. Bandarenka, J. Solid State Electrochem. 2016, 20, 2915.
- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[36] R. R. Mishra, A. K. Sharma, Comp. Part A 2016, 81, 78.
- [37] S. Glowniak, B. Szczesniak, J. Choma, M. Jaroniec, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, 2103477.
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>[38] R. Hu, H. Jiang, J. Xian, S. Mi, L. Wei, G. Fang, J. Guo, S. Xu, Z. Liu, H. Jin, W. Xu, J. Wan, Appl. Catal. B 2022, 317, 121728.
- [39] H. Lee, O. Gwon, K. Choi, L. Zhang, J. Zhou, J. Park, J. W. Yoo, J. Q. Wang, J. H. Lee, G. Kim, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 4664.
- [40] Y. M. Zhu, L. Zhang, B. Zhao, H. J. Chen, X. Liu, R. Zhao, X. W. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. L. Liu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1901738.
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>[41] H. Wu, F. Huang, B. Wang, S. Wang, W. Nie, S. Li, F. Liu, H. Zhang, ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2022, 5, 13187.
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>[42] S. She, J. Yu, W. Tang, Y. Zhu, Y. Chen, J. Sunarso, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 11715.
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>[43] N. Sivakumar, J. Gajendiran, A. Alsalme, K. Tashiro, Phys. B Condens. Matter 2022, 641, 414086.
- [44] C. Cheng, S. Gao, J. Zhu, G. Wang, L. Wang, X. Xia, Chem. Eng. J. 2019, 384, 123377.
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>[45] E. J. Crumlin, E. Mutoro, Z. Liu, M. E. Grass, M. D. Biegalski, Y. L. Lee, D. Morgan, H. M. Christen, H. Bluhm, Y. Shao‐ Horn, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 6081.
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>[46] X. Cheng, E. Fabbri, M. Nachtegaal, I. E. Castelli, M. El Kazzi, R. Haumont, N. Marzari, T. J. Schmidt, Chem. Mater. 2015, 27, 7662.

- <span id="page-11-7"></span>[47] J. Wu, J. P. Dacquin, N. Djelal, C. Cordier, C. Dujardin, P. Granger, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2020, 282, 119621.
- [48] S. Rong, S. Laihong, W. Shuang, B. Hongcun, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2022, 316, 121598.
- <span id="page-11-8"></span>[49] L. Yanhui, Y. Kun, G. Zhenhua, L. Shen, L. Danyang, Z. Xing, W. Hua, L. Kongzhai, Appl. Catal. B Environ. 2021, 301, 120778.
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>[50] M. You, L. Gui, X. Ma, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, J. Zhang, J. Sun, B. He, L. Zhao, Appl. Catal. B 2021, 298, 120562.
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>[51] R. R. Katzbaer, F. M. dos Santos Vieira, I. Dabo, Z. Mao, R. E. Schaak, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023, 145, 6753.
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>[52] Z. Li, L. Lv, J. Wang, X. Ao, Y. Ruan, D. Zha, G. Hong, Q. Wu, Y. Lan, C. Wang, J. Jiang, M. Liu, Nano Energy 2018, 47, 199.

#### SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of this article.

How to cite this article: G. Fang, K. Liu, M. Fan, J. Xian, Z. Wu, L. Wei, H. Tian, H. Jiang, W. Xu, H. Jin, J. Wan, Carbon Neutralization 2023;2:709–720. <https://doi.org/10.1002/cnl2.94>