---
source: Gao 等 - 2020 - High efficiency electrocatalyst of LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 nanoparticles on oxygen-evolution reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 65.779s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:36:42.252920Z
---

natureresearch

# **OPEN** High efficiency electrocatalyst of LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles on oxygen-evolution reaction

Xiaoping Gao¹, Zhimin Sun²⊠, Jiaqi Ran³, Jufu Li³, Jingyan Zhang³ & Daqiang Gao³

Due to the multistep proton-coupled electron transfer, it remains a huge challenge to accelerate the kinetics of oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Here, we demonstrate that perovskite-type LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> nanoparticles can be used as highly active and stable OER electrocatalysts, where it shows a low overpotential of 390 mV at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, a small Tafel slope of 114.4 mV/dec and excellent stability with slight current decrease after 20 h, superior than that of their individual counterparts (LaFeO<sub>3</sub> and LaCrO<sub>3</sub>). This finding confirms that the present hybrid material would be an effective means to electrocatalyst for catalyzing OER.

It is very urgent that develop low cost, high stability and efficient energy convert and storage system (eg. metal-air batteries<sup>1</sup>, fuel cells<sup>2</sup> and super capacitors<sup>3</sup>) for clean energy. Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is the important step for many energy storage systems<sup>4-6</sup>, where noble metal-based (eg. IrO<sub>2</sub>/RuO<sub>2</sub>) catalysts are generally used as the most active catalysts to accelerate the kinetics of OER. However, it is difficult to meet the needs of commercialization, due to its scarcity and expensive of these precious metals<sup>7</sup>. Therefore, it is inevitable and great interest to explore the efficient and low-cost alternative non-precious electrocatalysts.

Recently, the stable structural, controllable electronic states<sup>8</sup> and relatively high ionic/electronic conductivity make oxide perovskite electrocatalysts popular. In particular, as the most important parent oxides in the family of perovskite, LaFeO<sub>3</sub> has been widely reported as efficient electrocatalyst. Unfortunately, calculations<sup>9,10</sup> and experimental measurements<sup>11</sup> results proved that individual LaFeO, perovskite has poor oxygen reduction reactions (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) activity in alkaline electrolyte. As a consequence, many attempts have been used to optimize the electronic structure and further optimize the ORR/OER activity of LaFeO<sub>3</sub>. For instance, Wang et al. used phosphorus doping strategy to optimize the OER and ORR electrocatalytic activity of LaFeO<sub>3-8</sub> perovskite<sup>12</sup>. Copper and zinc co-doped LaFeO<sub>3</sub> perovskite oxides with enhanced electrocatalytic activity were also reported by Mahmoud Omari<sup>13</sup>. Schon et al. reported the highest catalytic activity for CO oxidation in LaFe<sub>0.8</sub>Cu<sub>0.2</sub>O<sub>3</sub><sup>14</sup>. Furthermore, the OER activity of LaFeO<sub>3</sub> was enhanced through coating an amorphous cobalt-phosphate<sup>15</sup>. Based on the conclusions reported in the above articles, we can see that the A or B ions in the perovskite oxide (ABO<sub>3</sub>) are partially replaced by other ions can cause changes in oxygen vacancies, ion valence and structural distortions. These can also lead to the improvement of its catalytic performance. Generally speaking, the stability and electrocatalytic activity of the perovskite oxide are more affected by the B-site cation <sup>16</sup>. Therefore, the method of replacing the B-site cation by incorporating some heteroatoms is an effective strategy to promote the electrocatalytic activity.

Herein, double perovskite LaCr<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>3</sub> with enhanced OER activity is reported, where the optimized sample of LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> displays the lowest overpotential of 390 mV at 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup>, Tafel slope of 114.4 mV/dec and long-term durability (20 h). We also through the electrocatalytic test and the first principle calculations results prove that the excellent performance of LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> are raised from the improved conductivity, tailored electronic structure and strong hybridization between oxygen and imetallic atoms.

<sup>1</sup>Key Laboratory of Sensor and Sensing Technology, Gansu Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou 730000, Gansu, China. <sup>2</sup>Lanzhou Resources and Environment Voc-tech College, Lanzhou 730000, Gansu, China. <sup>3</sup>Key Laboratory for Magnetism and Magnetic Materials of MOE, Key Laboratory of Special Function Materials and Structure Design of MOE, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China. <sup>™</sup>email: zminsun@163.com

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Te DOS diagram of (**a**) LaFeO3, (**c**) LaCrO3 and (**e**) LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3. Te atomic structure optimization diagram of (**b**) LaFeO3, (**d**) LaCrO3 and (**e**) LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3.

#### **Results and discussion**

Since the OER electrocatalytic activity of the catalyst is highly correlated with its electronic structure, we therefore frst verify this relationship through frst principle calculation. Figure [1](#page-1-0) shows the calculated the density of states (DOS) results of LaFeO3, LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 and LaCrO3 models. Tey all exhibit the full electron occupied states at the Fermi level, revealing the metal-like state of LaFeO3, LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 and LaCrO3. For LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 case, there are more electron occupied states at the Fermi level, ascribing the strong hybridization of Fed/Cr-d/O-p orbits. Furthermore, it is well-known that the adsorbate–metal interactions can be predicted by the energy difference between d-band center and Fermi level (∆*E*O[\)17](#page-5-15)[,18](#page-5-16). Based on the d-band center model, the smaller value of ∆*E*O, the stronger bond between the metal atom and the adsorbed oxygen-containing substance, which means the higher intrinsic OER activity[19,](#page-5-17)[20.](#page-5-18) Apparently, our calculation results indicate that the LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 exhibits the smallest ∆*E*O value [O(−3.33 eV), Fe(−1.64 eV) ,Cr(−1.55 eV)] compared with LaFeO3 [O(−3.79 eV), Fe(−2.02 eV)] and LaCrO3 [O(−4.70 eV), Cr(−1.49 eV)], revealing the OER activity and electron can be signifcantly promoted through the strongest binding between surface Cr/Fe atoms and the adsorbed oxygenated species upon electrolysis.

Figure [2a](#page-2-0) and Figure S1 (Supporting Information) show the X-ray difraction (XRD) patterns of as-synthesized LaCrxFe1−xO3 (x= 0, 0.2, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9, 1, respectively) perovskite oxides. Te difraction peak of LaFeO3 (x=0) corresponds to the standard cubic spinel LaFeO3 (PDF# 75-0541). Nevertheless, as the concentration of Cr increased, the characteristic peaks gradually shifs to the body-centered tetragonal spinel structure of LaCrO3 (PDF #75-0441[\)21.](#page-5-19) Te morphology of the as-prepared LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 was examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) as presented in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) and Fig. [2](#page-2-0)b, respectively. Te morphology of LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 displays some pore structures formed by aggregated or randomly stacked irregularly shaped particles. Noting that all the samples show the same particles morphology

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** (**a**) XRD patterns of LaFeO3, LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3 and LaCrO3. (**b**) TEM images of LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3. (**c**) HRTEM image of LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3. (**d**) Corresponding EDX element mapping images of LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3.

<span id="page-2-1"></span>**Figure 3.** XPS spectrum of (**a**) La 3d, (**b**) Cr 2p, (**c**) Fe 2p and (**d**) O 1 s.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 4.** (a) The polarization curves, (b) overpotential at  $10 \text{ mA/cm}^2$  and (c) Tafel plots of LaFeO<sub>3</sub>, LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and LaCrO<sub>3</sub> for OER. (d) The CV curcalculated Cdl of all samples (e) EIS Nyquist plots of all samples. (f) Overpotential ( $\eta$ ) of previously reported material for OER at  $10 \text{ mA/cm}^2$ .

as revealed in Figures S2, S3 (Supporting Information). The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) was carried out to further characterize the structures of  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$ . As shown in Fig. 2c, the obvious lattice fringe of 0.388 nm matched with the (100) plane. Further, as revealed by the high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM-EDS mapping (Fig. 2d), the element distributions are highly even in  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$ .

The oxidation state and composition of the electracatalysts were detected via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Figure  $^{3}$ a exhibits La  $^{3}$ d spectra of LaFeO $_{3}$ , LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_{3}$  and LaCrO $_{3}$ , which are deconvoluted into two different characteristic peaks of La  $^{3}$ d $_{3/2}$  (850.4 and 854.7 eV) and La  $^{3}$ d $_{5/2}$  (833.5 and 837.5 eV) $^{22}$ . Noting that the peak positions of LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_{3}$  have a slight shift to low energy compared with LaFeO $_{3}$  and LaCrO $_{3}$ , revealing that there are valence change or electron transfer in LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_{3}$ . The high resolution spectrums of Cr  $^{2}$ P $_{1/2}$  and Cr  $^{2}$ P $_{3/2}$  peaks are consistent with 586.2 and 577.0 eV, respectively $^{23}$ . As can be seen in Fig. 3b, the peak at 577 eV of Cr  $^{2}$ P $_{3/2}$  can be assigned to Cr $^{3+}$ , and as the literature reports that the catalytic activity will be promoted by Cr $^{3+}$  of the high-valence Cr species $^{24}$ . As shown in Fig. 3c, the peaks at 709.9 and 723.6 eV were assigned to Fe  $^{2}$ P $_{3/2}$  and Fe  $^{2}$ P $_{1/2}$ , respectively $^{25}$ . Compared to the LaFeO $_{3}$ , the Fe  $^{2}$ P $_{3/2}$  peaks of LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_{3}$  shift from 709.9 eV to 710.2 eV. The O 1 s spectrum illustrated in Fig. 3d shows three peaks that are matched with lattice oxygen (O $_{1}$ , 529.8 eV), defect oxygen (O $_{2}$ , 531.5 eV) and surface absorbed oxygen (O $_{3}$ , 533.0 eV), respectively $^{26}$ . Furthermore, the result indicates that LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_{3}$  possesses higher ratio of oxygen defects (48.4%) than other samples (LaCrO $_{3}$ -31.3%, LaFeO $_{3}$ -40.7%), indicating that Cr doping can introduce more oxygen defects, which will enhance the interaction of hybrids and absorbed oxygen-containing species $^{27}$ .

As displayed in Table S1 and Figures S4, S6 (Supporting Information), the ration of x in LaCr<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>3</sub> (x = 0, 0.2, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9, 1, respectively) can tune the electrocatalytic activity of the electrocatalysts and the optimized x is about 0.5. Thus, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) of LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> reveals an OER overpotential at 10 mA/

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 5.** (a) LSV curves of  $LaCr_{0.4}Fe_{0.6}O_3$  catalyst before and after 1000 cycles. (b) The chronoamperometry test of  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$ . (c) The XRD pattern of  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$  after OER test. (d) The SEM image of  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$  after OER test.

cm² of 390 mV, which is smaller than 510 mV of LaFeO $_3$  and 550 mV of LaCrO $_3$  (Fig. 4a,b). Besides, as shown in Fig. 4c, LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_3$  owns the lowest Tafel slope (114.4 mV/dec) among LaFeO $_3$  (142.4 mV/dec) and LaCrO $_3$  (192.6 mV/dec), respectively. In addition, the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curve (Figure S5, Supporting Information) illustrates that C $_{dl}$  (Fig. 4d) of LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_3$  is about 21.6 mF/cm², larger than LaFeO $_3$  (11.1 mF/cm²) and LaCrO $_3$  (5.7 mF/cm²). To our knowledge, C $_{dl}$  is proportional to electrocatalytically active surface areas (ECSA) of electrocatalysts²8, and the largest C $_{dl}$  of LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_3$  indicates it possesses the largest ESCA. In addition, we also can get the Charge transfer resistance by electrochemial impedance spectra (EIS)²9 in Fig. 4e. It can be seen that the charge transfer resistance of LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_3$  is smaller than that of LaFeO $_3$  and LaCrO $_3$ , demonstrating that LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_3$  owns fastest OER rates and the optimal charge transfer capability. Further, as summarized in Fig. 4f, the LaCr $_{0.5}$ Fe $_{0.5}$ O $_3$  shows better electrocatalytic activity than some recent reported electrocatalysts, such as LFP-5¹², La $_{0.95}$ FeO $_{3.6}$ 30, SrCo $_{0.9}$ Ti $_{0.1}$ O $_{3.6}$ 3¹, La $_{0.7}$  (Ba $_{0.5}$ Sr $_{0.5}$ O $_{0.3}$ Sro $_{0.8}$ FeO $_{0.7}$ 3², and SrFe $_{0.9}$ Ti $_{0.1}$ O $_{3.6}$ 3¹.

At the same time, the excellent stability of the electrocatalyst can also be proved by the following tests. Figure 5a exhibits that the change of the overpotential ( $\eta$ ) for LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> is about 13 mV after 8,000 cycles under 35 mA/cm². Moreover, the chronoamperometry test also can be carried out to prove the excellent stability of the LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub>. It can be acquired from Fig. 5b and Figure S7 (Supporting Information) that the initial activity of LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> remains almost unchanged after 20 h, demonstrating the outstanding stability of LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> for OER. In addition, the XRD pattern (Fig. 5c), SEM image (Fig. 5d), TEM image (Figure S6a, Supporting Information) and HRTEM image (Figure S6b, Supporting Information) show that the structure is basically consistent with that before the OER test, confirming the LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> has good structural stability. In light of all these findings, it is corroborated that LaCr<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>O<sub>3</sub> possesses excellent electrocatalytic stability.

#### **Conclusions**

In summary, theoretical calculations demonstrate that  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$  possesses the stronger bond between the metal atom and the adsorbed oxygen-containing substance, and greater electrical conductivity for electron transport, thus having better OER electrocatalysis active. Experimentally, electrocatalytic activity of  $LaCr_xFe_{1-x}O_3$  (x = 0, 0.2, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9, 1, respectively) perovskites are studied, where the sample  $LaCr_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_3$  shows highly active (lower overpotential and larger ESCA) and excellent stability (structural and test stability). These results prove that doping the B-site perovskite oxide is an effective strategy to conceive more efficient and stable OER electrocatalysts.

#### **Experimental section**

**Preparation of LaCr**<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>3</sub>. The catalysts of LaCr<sub>x</sub>Fe<sub>1-x</sub>O<sub>3</sub> (x represent the amount of Cr incorporated ration in the sample, x = 0, 0.2, 0.5, 0.7, 0.9, 1) nanostructures were prepared by conventional sol–gel method. First of all, (0.005 mol) La(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O, (0.005\*1-x mol) Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>.9H<sub>2</sub>O, (0.005\*x mol) Cr(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>.9H<sub>2</sub>O and

(0.01 mol) C6H8O7 were added in 30 mL solution (VH2O:VC2H6O =1:2) with 10 min stirring. Next, the uniform mixture was dried in an oven (90 °C for 24 h). Subsequently, the precursor was annealed under air atmosphere at 600 °C for 5 h with a 2 °C min−1 rate of heating. When the value of x is 0.5, we name it LaCr0.5Fe0.5O3. By analogy we have prepared LaFeO3, LaCr0.2Fe0.8O3, LaCr0.7Fe0.3O3, LaCr0.9Fe0.1O3, LaCrO3, respectively.

Received: 2 June 2020; Accepted: 7 July 2020

### **References**

- <span id="page-5-0"></span>1. Wang, H.-F. & Xu, Q. Materials design for rechargeable metal-air batteries. *Matter* **1**, 565 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-1"></span>2. Wei, C. *et al.* Recommended practices and benchmark activity for hydrogen and oxygen electrocatalysis in water splitting and fuel cells. *Adv. Mater.* **31**, 180629631 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-2"></span>3. Yan, J., Li, S., Lan, B., Wu, Y. & Lee, P. S. Rational design of nanostructured electrode materials toward multifunctional supercapacitors. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **30**, 1902564 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-3"></span>4. Wan, W. *et al.* 3D carbon framework-supported CoNi nanoparticles as bifunctional oxygen electrocatalyst for rechargeable Zn-air batteries. *Appl. Catal. B* **240**, 193–200 (2019).
- 5. Zhang, C. *et al.* Boosting hydrogen evolution activity of vanadyl pyrophosphate nanosheets for electrocatalytic overall water splitting. *Chem. Commun.* **55**, 10511 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-4"></span>6. Liu, X. *et al.* Nanoporous Zn-doped Co3O4 sheets with single-unit-cell-wide lateral surfaces for efcient oxygen evolution and water splitting. *Nano Energy* **44**, 371–377 (2018).
- <span id="page-5-5"></span>7. Xu, J. *et al.* Amorphous MoOX-stabilized single platinum atoms with ultrahigh mass activity for acidic hydrogen evolution. *Nano Energy* **70**, 104529 (2020).
- <span id="page-5-6"></span>8. Wang, H., Zhou, M., Choudhury, P. & Luo, H. Perovskite oxides as bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts for oxygenevolution/ reduction reactions—A mini review. *Appl. Mater. Today* **16**, 56 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-7"></span>9. Lee, Y., Gadre, M. J., Shaohorn, Y. & Morgan, D. Ab initio GGA+U study of oxygen evolution and oxygen reduction electrocatalysis on the (001) surfaces of lanthanum transition metal perovskites LaBO3 (B=Cr, Mn, Fe, Co and Ni). *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **17**, 21643–21663 (2015).
- <span id="page-5-8"></span>10. Wang, Y. & Cheng, H. Oxygen reduction activity on perovskite oxide surfaces: A comparative frst-principles study of LaMnO3, LaFeO3, and LaCrO3. *J. Phys. Chem. C* **117**, 2106–2112 (2013).
- <span id="page-5-9"></span>11. Sunarso, J., Torriero, A. A., Zhou, W., Howlett, P. C. & Forsyth, M. Oxygen reduction reaction activity of la-based perovskite oxides in alkaline medium: A thin-flm rotating ring-disk electrode study. *J. Phys. Chem. C* **116**, 5827–5834 (2012).
- <span id="page-5-10"></span>12. Li, Z. *et al.* Engineering phosphorus-doped LaFeO3-δ perovskite oxide as robust bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts in alkaline solutions. *Nano Energy* **47**, 199–209 (2018).
- <span id="page-5-11"></span>13. Omari, E., Omari, M. & Barkat, D. Oxygen evolution reaction over copper and zinc co-doped LaFeO3 perovskite oxides. *Polyhedron* **156**, 116–122 (2018).
- <span id="page-5-12"></span>14. Schon, A., Dacquin, J.-P., Dujardin, C. & Granger, P. Catalytic activity and thermal stability of LaFe12xCuxO3 and La2CuO4 perovskite solids in three-way-catalysis. *Catal. Today* **320**, 30–39 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-13"></span>15. Peng, Q., Wen, Y., Shan, B. & Chen, R. Enhanced oxygen evolution reaction activity of LaFeO3 coated with Co-Pi. *ECS Trans.* **64**, 27–35 (2015).
- <span id="page-5-14"></span>16. Banerjee, S., Debata, S., Madhuri, R. & Sharma, P. K. Electrocatalytic behavior of transition metal (Ni, Fe, Cr) doped metal oxide nanocomposites for oxygen evolution reaction. *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **449**, 660–668 (2018).
- <span id="page-5-15"></span>17. Zhou, Y. *et al.* Enlarged Co–O covalency in octahedral sites leading to highly efcient spinel oxides for oxygen evolution reaction. *Adv. Mater.* **30**, 1802912 (2018).
- <span id="page-5-16"></span>18. Wang, H. *et al.* Double perovskite LaFexNi1@xO3 nanorods enable efcient oxygen evolution electrocatalysis. *Angew. Chem.* **131**, 2338–2342 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-17"></span>19. Pan, Y. *et al.* Electronic structure and d-band center control engineering over M-doped CoP (M=Ni, Mn, Fe) hollow polyhedron frames for boosting hydrogen production. *Nano Energy* **56**, 411–419 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-18"></span>20. He, D. *et al.* Active electron density modulation of Co3O4-based catalysts enhances their oxygen evolution performance. *Angew. Chem.* **132**, 6996–7002 (2020).
- <span id="page-5-19"></span>21. Paul Blessington Selvadurai, A. *et al.* Infuence of Cr substitution on structural, magnetic and electrical conductivity spectra of LaFeO3. *J. Alloys Compd.* **646**, 924–931 (2015).
- <span id="page-5-20"></span>22. Ran, J. *et al.* Modulation of electronics of oxide perovskites by sulfur doping for electrocatalysis in rechargeable Zn−Air batteries. *Chem. Mater.* **32**, 3439–3446 (2020).
- <span id="page-5-21"></span>23. Wu, Y. *et al.* Cr-doped FeNi–P nanoparticles encapsulated into N-doped carbon nanotube as a robust bifunctional catalyst for efcient overall water splitting. *Adv. Mater.* **31**, 1900178 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-22"></span>24. Yang, Y. *et al.* Highly active trimetallic NiFeCr layered double hydroxide electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **8**, 1703189 (2018).
- <span id="page-5-23"></span>25. Li, J.-S. *et al.* Nitrogen-doped Fe/Fe3C@graphitic layer/carbon nanotube hybrids derived from MOFs: Efcient bifunctional electrocatalysts for ORR and OER. *Chem. Commun.* **51**, 2710–2713 (2015).
- <span id="page-5-24"></span>26. Ji, D. *et al.* Te Kirkendall efect for engineering oxygen vacancy of hollow Co3O4 nanoparticles toward high performance portable zinc-air batteries. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **58**, 13840–13844 (2019).
- <span id="page-5-25"></span>27. Li, X. *et al.* MOF derived Co3O4 nanoparticles embedded in Ndoped mesoporous carbon layer/MWCNT hybrids: extraordinary bifunctional electrocatalysts for OER and ORR. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **3**, 17392 (2015).
- <span id="page-5-26"></span>28. Diao, J. *et al.* Interfacial engineering of W2N/WC heterostructures derived from solid-state synthesis: A highly efcient trifunctional electrocatalyst for ORR, OER, and HER. *Adv. Mater.* **32**, 1905679 (2020).
- <span id="page-5-27"></span>29. Garcıa-Osorio, D. A., Jaimes, R., Vazquez-Arenas, J., Lara, R. H. & Alvarez-Ramirezc, J. Te kinetic parameters of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) calculated on inactive anodes via EIS transfer functions: OH formation. *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **164**, E3321–E3328 (2017).
- <span id="page-5-28"></span>30. Zhu, Y. *et al.* Enhancing electrocatalytic activity of perovskite oxides by tuning cation defciency for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions. *Chem. Mater.* **28**, 1691–1697 (2016).
- <span id="page-5-29"></span>31. Liu, P. *et al.* Bifunctional oxygen electrocatalyst of mesoporous Ni/NiO nanosheets for fexible rechargeable Zn–Air batteries. *Nano-Micro Lett.* **12**, 68 (2020).
- <span id="page-5-30"></span>32. Jung, J. *et al.* Optimizing nanoparticle perovskite for bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysis. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **9**, 176 (2016).

#### **Acknowledgements**

Tis work was fnancially supported by the Application Research and Development Plan of Gansu Academy of Sciences (2018JK-16) and Key Research and Development Plan of Gansu Province (No. 18YF1GA088) and Innovative Team Construction Project of Gansu Academy of Science (2020CX005-01).

#### **Author contributions**

X.G., J.R. and D.G. wrote the main manuscript text. J.L. prepared Fig. [1,](#page-1-0) J.Z. prepared transmission test and data processing. All authors reviewed the manuscript.

## **Competing interests**

Te authors declare no competing interests.

# **Additional information**

**Supplementary information** is available for this paper at [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-70283-9.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-70283-9)

**Correspondence** and requests for materials should be addressed to Z.S.

**Reprints and permissions information** is available at [www.nature.com/reprints.](www.nature.com/reprints)

**Publisher's note** Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional afliations.

**Open Access** Tis article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. Te images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

© Te Author(s) 2020