---
source: Gao 等 - 2023 - Terrace‐Like 2D Hierarchically Porous IronCobalt Metal–Organic Framework Ambient Fast Synthesis an.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 42.370s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:37:24.627361Z
---

# **Terrace-Like 2D Hierarchically Porous Iron/Cobalt Metal–Organic Framework: Ambient Fast Synthesis and Efficient Oxygen Evolution Reaction Application**

*Tian Gao,\* Yan Cai, Qian Wan, Peixuan Deng, Qun Cai, Na Peng, Huan Xu,\* and Yi Liu\**

**It is urgent to design a low-cost electrocatalyst with high activity to enhance the efficiency of oxygen evolution reaction (OER), which is limited by the slow four-electron transfer kinetics process. Nevertheless, traditional synthetic methods, including calcination and solvothermal, of the electrocatalysts are high-cost, low-yield, and energy-hogging, which limits their industrial application. Herein, an ambient fast synthetic method is developed to prepare terrace-like Fe/Co bimetal-organic framework (TFC-MOF) electrocatalyst materials in gram scale in 1 h. The method in this paper is designable based on coordination chemistry. Fe and Co ions can coordinate with the carboxyl groups on benzene-1,3,5-tricarboxylic acid (H3BTC) to form a 2D-MOF structure. Structural characterizations, including SEM, TEM, and XRD are conducted to verify that the TFC-MOF is a terrace-like layered structure with uniform-sized mesoporous, which reduces the adsorption steric hindrance and facilitates the mass and electron transfer efficiency of OER. The TFC-MOF shows low overpotential, 255 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and a low Tafel slope of 49.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, in an alkaline solution. This work provides a planar coordination strategy to synthesize 2D-MOF OER electrocatalyst on a large scale with low cost and low energy consumption, which will promote its practical OER applications.**

# **1. Introduction**

Renewable green energy is regarded as one of the most important research fields in the world, on account of the dramatic decline of

T. Gao, Y. Cai, Q. Wan, P. Deng, Q. Cai, N. Peng, H. Xu, Y. Liu Hubei Province Key Laboratory for Coal Conversion and New Carbon Materials

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Institute of Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology Wuhan University of Science and Technology Wuhan 430081, P. R. China

E-mail: gaotian@whu.edu.cn; xuhuan@wust.edu.cn; yiliuchem@whu.edu.cn

Y. Liu

School of Chemical and Environmental Engineering Wuhan Polytechnic University

Wuhan 430023, P. R. China

Y. Liu

Hubei Key Laboratory of Radiation Chemistry and Functional Materials Hubei University of Science and Technology Xianning 437100, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202207735

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202207735**

natural fossil fuel resources and the deteriorated environment.[1] In recent years, alternative and sustainable sources of energy have been concerned to solve global environmental problems, reduce fossil energy consumption, lower carbon emissions, and alleviate climate pressures.[2] As typical green energies, hydrogen (H2), metal– air cells, and fuel cells have been further promoted.[3] H2 is an ideal carbon-free and green energy carrier, it has been considered the best option for solving energy and environmental issues. Currently, the steam reforming method of hydrocarbon is mainly used in industrial tonnage hydrogen production. However, hydrocarbons are still derived from fossil fuels, which unavoidably generate abundant carbon emissions and aggravate environmental pollution.[4] In this, a green and environmentally friendly electrolytic water splitting method has been developed to obtain sustainable H2 with no carbon emissions or other harmful side products.[5] To sum up, electrochemical water splitting is a sustainable approach to

obtaining hydrogen.[6,7] Hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) are included in Electrochemical water splitting.[8] Among these reactions, the OER is the most technically challenging one because of its four-electron transfer half-cell process and intrinsically sluggish kinetics, which result in the overpotential of OER being several times that of HER to afford the same current density.[2] Currently, materials containing noble metals, such as Pd, Rh, Ru, Ir, and their derivatives (e.g., IrO2, RuO2), exhibit the highest OER electrocatalytic efficiency. However, the commercial applications of the above-mentioned catalysts are severely limited by the high cost and low earth abundance. Therefore, it is urgent to develop new methods to prepare low-cost, high-performance, and environmentally friendly precious-metal-free electrocatalysts.[2]

Recently, metal–organic frameworks (MOFs) nanomaterials have been developed as novel electrocatalysts on account of the synergistic effect of components with different properties. MOFs are porous materials formed by the coordination of metal ions or clusters with organic ligands, which have been widely used in practical applications, such as sensors, gas storage/separation, and catalysis.[9] MOFs integrate both the advantages of organic (variety, permeability, and flexibility) and inorganic (large surface

area, fast charge transfer, and good conductivity) materials.[10] The types and quantities of catalytic active sites are enhanced due to this special structure.[11–14] Bulk MOFs possess limited micropores and mesoporous, which are essential for efficient mass transport of electrocatalytic activity. Additionally, polymetallic components can not only alter the crystal lattice and bonding mode of the catalyst but also improve the adsorption energy. Compared with monometallic MOFs, bimetallic MOFs (BMOFs) have advantages in OER, showing improved conductivity, abundant active sites, high charge capacity, and tunable electrochemical activity.[1] Other than bulk MOFs, 2D MOFs are consisted of layered nanosheets, which exhibit higher electrocatalytic activity due to numerous unsaturated coordination of metals, while the mass and charge transfer faster at the same time.[15–19] At present, approaches have been reported to synthesize 2D MOFs. These fall into two categories: top-down approaches and bottomup routes. Top-down methods refer to exfoliating the large layerstructured MOFs, such as mechanical exfoliation, sonication exfoliation, and chemical exfoliation. Bottom-up methods prepare 2D MOFs from small organic ligands and metal nods, such as interfacial synthesis, surfactant-assisted synthesis, and sonication synthesis.[15]

In recent years, the bottom-up synthesis of 2D MOF has been extensively studied. The bottom-up approach has significant advantages. Bottom-up methods can generate 2D MOFs with uniform thickness efficiently with a high yield.[20] Sonication synthesis, template-assisted synthesis, surfactant-assisted synthesis, and interfacial synthesis are typical bottom-up methods.[21–23] Nickel foam (NF) is a 3D microporous material with high conductivity and high specific surface area, which can be served as an attractive substrate for electrocatalysts.[24] For instance, Li et al. rationally designed FCN-BTC MOF/NF through a onestep solvothermal method, which exhibited chrysanthemum nanoflower structures and excellent OER performance.[25] Sharifeh Rezaee et al. prepared a 3D ultrathin porous carbon composite (NiCo/NiO-CoO/NPCC) for the methanol oxidation reaction. It was synthesized via two steps, including a hydrothermal approach and carbonization at 900 °C.[26] Xie et al. successfully fabricated Co/Fe-based BMOFs (CoxFe-MOFs) as an OER catalyst in an alkaline solution via a simple ultrasonic method.[27] However, the disadvantages of these methods are demonstrated in academic papers recently. High-temperature calcination would destroy the nanostructure of MOF-derived electrocatalysts, which decreased the active sites and caused shrinkage or agglomeration.[28] The intrinsic micropores of MOFs would be blocked by substrates such as carbonaceous materials, polyaniline, and graphene, leading to poor mass transport efficiency.[29] Moreover, sonification, calcination, high temperature, and highpressure methods are energy-extensive consumption, which hinders the commercial application of electrocatalysts.[11] Consequently, it is urgent to develop methods to prepare non-noble metal-based BMOFs on a large scale for high-efficiency electrocatalytic OER. It will simplify the synthesis equipment and improve the efficiency of water-splitting.

Herein, a new synthetic method is exhibited to prepare terrace-like Fe/Co bimetal-organic framework (TFC-MOF) via simply stirring at room temperature for 1 h. The TFC-MOF was fabricated by a coordination reaction between benzene-1,3,5 tricarboxylic acid (H3BTC) and Fe/Co ions. The TFC-MOF is characterized by SEM and TEM to prove that it possesses layered architecture, which increased the mass and electricity transfer area and afforded abundant exposed active sites. Thus, the TFC-MOF exhibited a low overpotential of 255 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in alkaline conditions with a Tafel Slope of 49.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Structure Design of the TFC-MOF**

In recent years, remarkable results have been achieved in the study of -conjugated 2D MOFs with high electrical conductivity. Some of them have been applied as electrocatalysts for HER and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[30] However, seldom of them were applied in OER.[16] Based on this, H3BTC, which extends in the equilateral-triangular direction, was selected as an organic ligand to prepare 2D MOFs. MOFs synthesized with H3BTC as ligands usually possess abundant micropores, unsaturated coordinated metal sites, and high thermal stability.[31] Especially, Cobased materials exhibit excellent performance in OER owing to oxidized cobalt centers promoting the formation of OOH species and subsequently deprotonate to form O2. [32] Moreover, the energy band structure and catalytic effect of OER can be further optimized when Fe ions are doped into Co-based catalysts.[33,34] Iron and cobalt ions grow horizontally by coordinating with carboxyl groups on H3BTC, facilitating the formation of 2D materials. In addition, there are benzene rings in the 2D materials from H3BTC, which tend to form – stacking structure. Thus, H3BTC conjugated Fe/Co bimetal-organic framework electrocatalysts tend to be layered structures, which possess robust coordination bonds in each plane and – interactions between the layers. The presence of the benzene ring of H3BTC allowed it to form a conjugated system, creating a loose porous structure in the TFC-MOF. The layered stacked porous structure is conducive to increasing the surface area and exposing the active site on the catalyst. This consequently leads to an improvement in the ability of the mass and electron transfer of the TFC-MOF, ultimately benefiting the process of OER. At the same time, it is reported that MOFs containing multi-carboxylic functional groups are beneficial to the structural and electrochemical stability.[35]

The activity of OER can be further optimized by tuning its surface morphology and electronic structures rationally.[36] According to the coordination number and complexation constant of iron/cobalt ions and H3BTC, the theoretical optimum substance ratios of Fe─H3BTC and Co─H3BTC are 1:1 and 3:2, respectively. The deprotonation of carboxyl function groups aroused from triethylamine (TEA) was proved to initiate the coordination polymerization, resulting in synthesizing highly porous metal–organic coordination polymerization. Additionally, the size, structure, and electrochemical performance of 2D MOFs can be easily manipulated by simply adjusting the metal ratio and reaction time. Compared with other complicated synthetic methods reported previously (Table S1, Supporting Information), this study opens a new way to develop novel porous hybrid MOFs with controllable morphology, surface properties, and a variety of functions.

As shown in **Scheme 1**, the TFC-MOF was prepared by simply stirring the mixed solution of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Co2<sup>+</sup>, and H3BTC in mixed solution with N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), ethanol, TEA, and

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration and chemical structure of the synthesis processing of the TFC-MOF. (Color code: C, black; H, white; O, red; Fe, crimson; Co, pink.)

deionized water, which cost only 1 h at room temperature (RT). The detailed experimental processes can be seen in the Experimental Section. In this study, the OER performance and morphology can be controlled by changing the proportion of reactants and the volume of solvents. Without TEA, the deprotonation process of H3BTC was too slow to form products (Figure S1, Supporting Information). In a typical preparation process, up to 1.8 g of TFC-MOF materials could be obtained with a yield of up to 100%. Oxygen in the air also participated in the reaction, which helped to increase the yield. It meant that the synthetic methods showed great advantages in mass production for commercialized applications.

#### **2.2. Advantages of the Synthetic Method**

At present, the syntheses of OER electrocatalyst mainly include calcination, solvothermal, and electrodeposition methods (**Figure 1**a; Table S1, Supporting Information). Some of them are complicated and involve multiple steps. At the same time, most of them have high energy consumption, time-consuming, and low economic benefits. This work paved a new way to develop novel porous hybrid MOFs with controllable morphology, surface properties, and a variety of functions. The reaction temperature and reaction time of each material can be directly obtained from the research papers (Figure 1b). As shown in Figure 1b, compared with other synthetic methods, the preparation of the TFC-MOF requires only low temperature and short reaction time simultaneously. High temperatures and long reaction times lead to high energy consumption and high cost, which are unfriendly to the environment and not beneficial to industrial applications.[25,27,37–42] Figure 1c–e exhibits the reaction energy consumption, product mass, and normalized cost of the preparation of the TFC-MOF and other representative OER electrocatalysts. FCN-BTC, 2D MOF-Fe/Co, Co2Fe-MOF, Zn─Co-LDH, and NiS─Ni2P2S6/NF were synthesized by hydrothermal, simple stirring, ultrasonic, one-step microwave-assisted, and calcination methods.[27,37–39] (See Table S2, Supporting Information for the detailed calculation procedure) Compared with these syntheses, the preparation of the TFC-MOF consumed even 1% energy, while the product mass could reach the gram scale, which was more than 100 times. (See Tables S3–S5, Supporting Information for the detailed calculation procedure) According to the costs and mass of the products, the TFC-MOF exhibited a very low normalized cost per gram. Thus, it is clear that the synthetic method of the TFC-MOF is low-cost, high-yield, and energy-consuming.

### **2.3. Morphology of the TFC-MOF**

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), as enhanced microscopy, are widely applied to investigate the morphology of electrocatalytic materials visually. The shape and microstructure of as-prepared TFC-MOF particles were revealed by SEM pictures. The layered structure of the TFC-MOF can be observed in **Figure 2**a–c, which enlarged the mass and electricity transfer area for the catalytic reaction. As depicted in Figure 2d, a distinct pattern of terracedlike porous structure can be observed. The nanosheets were connected spatially with each other. The existence of micropores not only improved the mechanical stability but also enriched the reactive active sites. The highly uniform distribution of C, O, Fe, and Co elements was demonstrated from energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) element mapping, proving the successful

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

**Figure 1.** a) Common instruments used for OER electrocatalysts: magnetic Stirrers; autoclave; tube furnace; laboratory microwave synthesis reactor. b) Reaction temperature and time of the synthetic process of different catalysts. c–e) Reaction energy consumption, product mass, and materials costs of the synthesis process of different catalysts.

hybrid of the TFC-MOF (Figure S2, Supporting Information). At the same time, the elements' contents information could be obtained, which was coincident with the ratio of Fe/Co reactants. This was basically the same as the structure envisioned, which confirmed the feasibility of designing ideas.

To better investigate the formation of the TFC-MOF, the microstructures of the Fe-MOF and the Co-MOF were observed by SEM. As schematically illustrated in **Figure 3**a–c, the Co-MOF has an irregular shape with a short rod bent at a certain angle. It can be judged from Scheme 1 that the secondary building units (SBUs) formed by the coordination of Co ions and H3BTC can be formed at any angle. The Fe-MOF has a multi-layered structure that can be seen in Figure 3d–f, which is similar to a flaky pastry. This is owed to the SBUs structure formed by Fe ions coordinated with H3BTC in Scheme 1. EDS element-mapping pictures show a highly uniform distribution of elements in the Co-MOF (C, O, and Co) and the Fe-MOF (C, O, and Fe) (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The TFC-MOF possessed a layered stacking structure with porous characteristics (the red circles in Figure 2c show the pores). This is due to the doping of Fe ions into the Co-MOF, resulting in a more stable planar structure of the material. Moreover, the presence of a conjugated structure formed by benzene rings promotes the stacking of the planar structures, which leads to the formation of terrace-like 2D hierarchically porous structures. By doping Fe into Co-MOF, the pattern of coordination is more diverse between metal ions and H3BTC, which leads to the formation of defects and ultimately creates pores in the material. As shown in Figure 2, the SEM images demonstrated that the TFC-MOF possesses a layered stacked porous structure, which is conducive to the enhancement of the active surface area and catalytic performance.

The microstructure of the TFC-MOF was further revealed by TEM pictures. The TFC-MOF was a layered structure formed by stacking one layer upon another, which was consistent with SEM pictures (**Figure 4**a). As demonstrated in Figure 4b, the TEM images display obvious platforms with diverse shades (the darker the color, the thicker it is), demonstrating that the TFC-MOF possesses a layered stacked structure, which is conducive to enhancing the effective surface activity of the catalyst. In addition, most of the regions are proved to be amorphous in the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) image (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Since MOFs are unstable under highenergy electron beam irradiation, no clear lattice fringes were observed in HR-TEM images.[43,44] According to the EDS, it clearly confirmed that C, O, Fe, and Co elements were homogeneously distributed in the TFC-MOF (Figure 4c–h). Furthermore, the ratio of Fe to Co ions in the sample is ≈1:2 from the EDS data (Figure 4i). This result was in accordance with the EDS result in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) and that design. In detail, the content of O was slightly higher than the initial reactants, which indicated that the oxygen in the air also participated in the reaction.

As shown in **Figure 5**a, the crystalline structure of the TFC-MOF was further investigated by X-ray diffraction (XRD). For comparison, the crystal structures of the Fe-MOF and the Co-MOF were examined. For the Fe-MOF, the dominant peaks located at 21.87°, 31.87°, 49.05°, and 52.15° are corresponded to the (013), (111), (208), and (209) plane of Fe2O3 (JCPDS#01- 076-1821), respectively.[45] The characteristic peak at 17.77°,

www.small-journal.com

16136829, 2023, 46, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207735 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA arctices are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** Morphology and structural features of the TFC-MOF. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of the TFC-MOF at different scales: a) 1  $\mu$ m, b) 500 nm, c) 200 nm, and d) 100 nm. Inserted red circles are the partially porous structure of the TFC-MOF.

20.50°, 25.82°, 33.47°, and 41.53° are assigned to the (020), (110), (120), (130), and (140) plane of Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>·H<sub>2</sub>O (JCPDS#00-08-0097), respectively. For the Co-MOF, the 21.86° and 28.23° peaks are the (111) and (120) plane of CoOOH (JCPDS#00-26-0480), respectively. The peak observed at 12.22° in the Co-MOF, 12.14° in the Fe-MOF, and 12.14° in the TFC-MOF corresponds to the characteristic diffraction peak of H<sub>3</sub>BTC, respectively. This indicates the existence of H<sub>3</sub>BTC in the electrocatalysts, which is important for the formation reactions. The crystallography feature of the TFC-MOF is confirmed by the comparison with the Fe-MOF and the Co-MOF. The TFC-MOF shows some characteristic peaks of the Fe-MOF and the Co-MOF, which proves the successful synthesis of the TFC-MOF.

#### 2.4. Surface Structure of the TFC-MOF

The surface properties of the materials are critical to their electrocatalytic performance. Surface functional groups and chemical bonding information of the TFC-MOF were revealed by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra. In detail, the FT-IR spectrum is shown in Figure 5b. A strong peak at 3432 cm $^{-1}$  is caused by the stretching vibration of O—H.  $^{[26]}$  The weak peaks at 2945 and 2742 cm $^{-1}$  are assigned to the stretching vibrations of CH $_3$ — and CH $_2$ — respectively.  $^{[48]}$  The absorption bands center at 1629, 1570, 1439, and 1378 cm $^{-1}$  arise from symmetric and asymmetric vibrations of carboxyl groups.  $^{[25]}$  The corresponding  $\Delta\nu(\nu_{\rm as}({\rm COO})-\nu_{\rm s}({\rm COO}))$  are 190 and 192 cm $^{-1}$ , depicting the existence of bridging coordination mode at the center of the metal ion and carboxyl group.  $^{[49]}$  The peaks at 1650 and 1629 cm $^{-1}$  were ascribed to the stretching vibration and the asymmetric stretching vibra-

tion of the metal ions-connected carboxyl groups, which formed a broad peak.  $^{[27,50]}$  The peak at 714, 1167, and 1107 cm $^{-1}$  are associated with the out-of-place C—H bending patterns, stretching vibrations, and in-place bending pattern of C—H.  $^{[25,51]}$  The peak at 766 cm $^{-1}$  indicated the bending vibration of C—C in the benzene ring.  $^{[49]}$  The peak around 942 cm $^{-1}$  is exhibited by the stretching vibrations of C—N.  $^{[51]}$  In particular, the obvious peaks at 577 and 461 cm $^{-1}$  were assigned to the Co—O and Fe—O tensile vibrations, respectively.  $^{[26,52]}$  The detailed data are available in Table S6 (Supporting Information).

The composition and surface state information of the TFC-MOF were revealed by XPS spectra in Figure S5 (Supporting Information) involving the presence of C, N, O, Fe, and Co elements. The survey spectra (Figure S5, Supporting Information) demonstrated that the TFC-MOF was composed of C (66.5%), O (23.9%), N (3.6%), Fe (2.6%), and Co (3.4%). As to the highresolution spectra of C 1s in Figure 6a, the peaks at 284.4 and 285.59 eV are attributed to C=C and C-O, respectively.[53] Additionally, the peak at 288.1 eV is associated with O-C=O, suggesting that the TFC-MOF possessed an oxygen-containing functional group obtained from H<sub>3</sub>BTC.<sup>[54]</sup> As shown in the O 1s spectrum (Figure 6b), the binding energy of 531.24 and 532.85 eV are corresponding to the characteristic peaks of COO-Fe/Co and O-H, respectively.<sup>[28]</sup> Figure 6c presents the high-resolution curves of the Fe 2p spectra, demonstrating two peaks at binding energies of 710.93 and 723.91 eV, which can be assigned to Fe<sup>3+</sup>  $2p_{3/2}$  and Fe<sup>3+</sup>  $2p_{1/2}$  of the TFC-MOF, respectively.<sup>[55]</sup> The binding energy of 716.87 and 723.73 eV are attributed to the characteristic peaks of Fe<sup>3+</sup>  $2p_{3/2}$  Sat. and Fe<sup>3+</sup>  $2p_{1/2}$  Sat., respectively.<sup>[5]</sup> By the way, the peak located at 713.47 belongs to Co LMN.

For Co 2p spectrum (Figure 6d), the peaks at 780.57 and 796.16 eV are assigned to  $\text{Co}^{3+}$  2p<sub>3/2</sub> and  $\text{Co}^{3+}$  2p<sub>1/2</sub>, respectively. The two peaks located at 782.52 and 797.63 eV are attributed to the  $\text{Co}^{2+}$  2p<sub>3/2</sub> and  $\text{Co}^{2+}$  2p<sub>1/2</sub>. The Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> split into two satellite peaks at 788.42 and 785.27 eV, while the peaks located at the binding energies of 800.72 and 802.58 eV can be ascribed to the Co  $^{3+}$  2p<sub>1/2</sub> Sat. and  $\text{Co}^{2+}$  2p<sub>1/2</sub> Sat., respectively. Due to the sequence of electronegativity (Fe<sup>3+</sup> (15.38) > Co<sup>2+</sup> (9.10)), Fe<sup>3+</sup> attracts the electron cloud of  $\text{Co}^{2+}$ , which could explain the changes in the valence of Fe and Co. The high oxidation states of Fe and Co ions are conducive to the OER process.

In order to further confirm the porosity of the surface, the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area of the materials was tested. Figure 6e presents that the TFC-MOF has five-type N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, which demonstrate that the nanosheets are abundant in mesoporous. The diagram indicated the surface area of as-prepared 2D nanosheets is 24.06 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>. The absorption capacity increased slowly before  $P/P_0 = 0.1$ , which indicated the existence of microporous. The hysteresis loop between  $P/P_0 = 0.4$  and 1.0 was caused by capillary condensation, which was formed by N<sub>2</sub> molecules condensed and filled mesoporous channels at lower atmospheric pressure. The desorption average pore diameter by the BJH adsorption curve of the TFC-MOF is 5.69 nm (Figure 6f). The high surface area and rich mesoporous property of the TFC-MOF afford a promotion for the transport and conversion of the ions and electrolytes with OER active sites. At the same time, N<sub>2</sub> adsorption desorption isotherms of the Fe-MOF (4.88 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and the Co-MOF (25.53 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) were exhibited in Figure S6a,c (Supporting

**Figure 3.** Morphology and structural features of the Co-MOF and the Fe-MOF. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of the Co-MOF at different scales: a) 1 μm, b) 500 nm, and c) 200 nm. Equivalent images of d–f) the Fe-MOF.

**Figure 4.** a) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and b) The partially enlarged details of a); c) scanning TEM image of the TFC-MOF; d) intergrated element map of C, N, O, Fe, and Co; The corresponding elemental mapping of e) carbon, f) oxygen, g) iron, and h) cobalt of the TFC-MOF. i) EDS spectrum of the TFC-MOF. The inset in (i) is the element composition table.

**Figure 5.** a) X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the TFC-MOF, the Fe-MOF, and the Co-MOF. b) Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) absorption spectra of the TFC-MOF.

Information). Meanwhile, the pore sizes of the Fe-MOF and the Co-MOF were 6.09 and 7.06 nm, respectively, which were shown in Figure S6b,d (Supporting Information). The results confirmed that micro and mesoporous coexist in the TFC-MOF, which facilitates the accessibility of the electrolyte and provides abundant active sites for OER.

#### **2.5. Electrocatalytic Properties of the TFC-MOF**

Based on the morphology and surface structure information, the electrochemical properties were analyzed to verify the superiority of the TFC-MOF. The electrocatalytic activity of the TFC-MOF toward OER was evaluated via testing in a typical threeelectrode system (as shown in Figure S7, Supporting Information). To minimize errors, all LSV of samples were tested under the same conditions in KOH electrolyte (pH 13.8). First, the quality of the catalyst is identified by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), as shown in **Figure 7**a. The required potential for achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is a crucial criterion for the OER catalysts, which is called overpotential (10). Cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves were recorded (≈100 cycles) to determine a steady state before assessing OER activity. The TFC-MOF (Fe/Co/H3BTC ratio 1:2:2) displays the highest OER activity, of which the corresponding overpotential is 255 mV (Figure S8a, Supporting Information). The value is much lower than that of most OER catalysts as previously reported (Table S7, Supporting Information) and commercial RuO2 (332 mV), which exhib-

**Figure 6.** High-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectrum (XPS) of a) C 1s, b) O 1s, c) Fe 2p, and d) Co 2p spectra, respectively. e) N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms of the TFC-MOF at 77 K and f) the corresponding pore size distribution of the TFC-MOF.

**Figure 7.** a) Polarization curves and b) the corresponding Tafel slopes of the TFC-MOF, the Fe-MOF, and the Co-MOF. c) Double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) of the TFC-MOF, the Fe-MOF, and the Co-MOF. d) EIS Nyquist plots of the TFC-MOF, the Fe-MOF, and the Co-MOF (inset is the equivalent circuit model).

ited better OER performance. For comparison, the overpotential of the Co-MOF and the Fe-MOF were tested, which were 350 and 619 mV (Figure 7a), respectively. It illustrated that Fe and Co display a positive synergistic effect. Moreover, the corresponding Tafel slope of the TFC-MOF is 49.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is obviously lower than that of the Co-MOF (101.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and the Fe-MOF (103.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure 7b). The result indicates that the outstanding kinetic conditions on the TFC-MOF can actuate the OER reaction quickly, due to the abundant active sites on porous layered structure. The OER performance has surpasses most of the former reported Fe-based and Cobased electrocatalysts in alkaline solutions (Table S7, Supporting Information).

To clarify the function of solvents in the synthetic system, the performance of electrodes derived from different organic solvents was also tested (Figure S8b, Supporting Information). It indicated that TEA played three roles: (1) deprotonated the carboxylic acids of H3BTC; (2) speeded up the coordination between BTC3- and metal ions under RT condition; (3) produced a small amount of OH<sup>−</sup> in water, which can stabilize the edge structure of 2D MOF layers and prevent 3D aggregation. During the preparation of 2D MOF nanosheets, a small amount of water and TEA played important roles in the stabilization of MOF nanosheets in the mixed solution. Additionally, Co and Fe nitrates were stable in the DMF/EtOH/TEA/DI solution. The uniform dispersion of metal ions in solution could facilitate the formation of multilayer stacking materials.

Double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) was also tested to verify the OER performance of the TFC-MOF. *C*dl is a vital parameter to clarify the exposed active sites toward OER. The *C*dl value is known to be in proportion to the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA).[50] It was calculated from CV, which is measured in the non-faradaic potential region at various scan rates (Figure S9, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 7c, the *C*dl of the TFC-MOF is 5.68 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is larger than that of the Co-MOF (4.61 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and the Fe-MOF (0.12 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2). According to Table S8 (Supporting Information), the ECSA of the TFC-MOF (142 cm2) is larger than that of Co-MOF (115.25 cm2) and significantly larger than that of Fe-MOF (3 cm2). Therefore, the TFC-MOF exhibited excellent ESCA, which meant that there were abundant expose active sites and large contact areas between the electrode and electrolyte. At the same time, the electron transfer kinetics characteristics of different samples were tested. The obtained Nyquist plots were fitted using the same equivalent circuit model, as shown in Figure 7d. The inset in Figure 7d demonstrates the equivalent circuit model of electrochemical impedance tests (EIS), which consists of constant phase elements *R*<sup>s</sup> and *R*ct. *R*<sup>s</sup> denotes the solution resistance, while *R*ct relates to the charge transfer resistance. *R*ct value of the TFC-MOF was 8.06 Ω, which was close to that of the Co-MOF (5.16 Ω) and the Fe-MOF (4.0 Ω). To sum up, the TFC-MOF possesses faster dynamics and smaller electron transfer resistance, contributing to its excellent charge transfer performance in the OER process.

Figure 8. Schematic representation of the electronic coupling between Fe and Co in the TFC-MOF.

#### 2.6. Electrocatalytic Stability of the TFC-MOF

The stability of electrodes is one of the primary concerns for large-scale commercial applications. Here, the stability of the materials was evaluated by chronoamperometry tests and chronopotentiometric measurements. The stability of the TFC-MOF for OER was evaluated by chronomperometry test at a fixed potential of overpotential, which was pre-activated by cycles through 100 curves. As displayed in Figure S10a-c (Supporting Information), the TFC-MOF exhibits better stability compared to the Fe-MOF and the Co-MOF. It is noteworthy that the Fe-MOF is quite unstable at the beginning. Figure S10d (Supporting Information) exhibited the CV curves of the TFC-MOF in 500 CV cycles in the potential range of 0.93-1.63 V (vs RHE), which remained unchanged. The polarization curve of the TFC-MOF after 500 CV cycles was similar to the initial polarization curve. It is due to their multilayered stacking structure, which provided affluent active sites and avoided large shrinkage or collapse during the catalytic process, thus displaying better stability. The stability of the TFC-MOF is not that good compared to some other electrocatalysts, due to its porous and loose structure. It can be further optimized by morphology modification and the addition of additives. [60] Except for the above two stability tests, the leaching of the TFC-MOF was analyzed by measuring the content of metal species in the electrolyte solution after 4 h by ICP-MS. According to the results in Table S9 (Supporting Information), the content of iron and cobalt in the reaction electrode solution is maintained at a rather low level, indicating the TFC-MOF has fine stability of element composition. In conclusion, although the TFC-MOF can only be

maintained for 4 h at an overpotential of 255 mV, the energy consumption and cost of a week of operation with the TFC-MOF are much lower than other materials (Figure S11 and Tables S10 and S11, Supporting Information). All the tests confirmed that as-obtained TFC-MOF exhibited great potential for commercial application and large-scale production.

## 2.7. Formation and Electrocatalytic Mechanism of the TFC-MOF

The electronic interactions at the interface of electrocatalysis have received growing attention, because of their critical role in enhancing the electrocatalytic efficiency. An analysis of the cooperative electronic interaction of Fe and Co cations in the TFC-MOF was performed. The electronic structure of the TFC-MOF is exhibited in Figure 8. The valence electron configuration of Fe<sup>3+</sup> (3d<sup>5</sup>  $(t_{2g}^3 e_g^2)$ ) was a low-spin state, in which  $\pi$ -symmetry  $(t_{2g})$  d-orbitals had three unpaired electrons. As a result, Fe<sup>3+</sup> interacted with bridging  $O^{2-}$  via  $\pi$ -donation. Meanwhile,  $Co^{2+}$  $(3d^7(t_{2a}^5 eg^2))$  was in the high-spin state with unpaired electrons in the  $\pi$ -symmetry ( $t_{2g}$ ) d-orbitals, hance  $\pi$ -donation was the primary interaction between Co<sup>2+</sup> and the bridging O<sup>2-</sup>. When Fe<sup>3+</sup> was coupled with Co<sup>2+</sup>, the partial charge transfer from Co<sup>2+</sup> to Fe<sup>3+</sup> due to the strength of  $\pi$ -donation between Co<sup>2+</sup>—O<sup>2-</sup> and  $Fe^{3+}$ — $O^{2-}$ . The carboxyl groups are conjugated with the benzene ring in H<sub>3</sub>BTC. It forms a conjugation area, facilitating the free movement of electrons. Thus, the electron transformation between Fe and Co elements is accelerated. Importantly, the redistribution of  $\pi$ -symmetry  $(t_{2g})$  d-orbitals between the

catalytic active sites (iron and cobalt cations) improves the adsorption/desorption of oxygen species, sequentially improving oxygen evolution performance.

The excellent electrocatalytic performance of the TFC-MOF was attributed to the following points: i) layered, microporous, and mesoporous structure of TFC-MOF was beneficial to improve the exposure of active sites and increase the mass/electron transfer efficiency; ii) owing to the use of H3BTC, which conjugated and stabilized Fe/Co ions, the TFC-MOF was multilayered stacking structure, avoiding shrinkage or collapse during the catalytic process. Terrace-like hierarchical structure contributes to the diffusion of electrolyte ions and the escape of oxygen from active sites.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a facile strategy is reported to synthesize terracelike Fe/Co bimetal-organic framework (TFC-MOF) electrocatalyst, which is 2D hierarchically porous, based on the theory of coordination chemistry. In this work, the TFC-MOF was prepared under mild conditions with high efficiency on a gram scale. The TFC-MOF was obtained via facile stirring at room temperature in just 1 h. Iron and cobalt ions grew horizontally by coordinating with carboxyl groups on H3BTC, to form planar construction. Furthermore, the terrace-like was generated by the conjugate bonding between the layers. The charge transfer efficiency and conductivity were improved by the mesoporous layerstacking structure, resulting in higher electrocatalytic activity. The as-prepared TFC-MOF exhibited excellent catalytic performance for OER with a low overpotential of 255 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a low Tafel slope of 49.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1. The layered stacked structure with uniform mesopore size avoided shrinkage or collapse during the catalytic process. The gram-scaled preparation of the TFC-MOF opens a new path for the ambient fast synthesis of high-performance OER electrocatalyst with low-cost and energysaving, which will promote its industrial applications.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This research was financially supported by funds from the Key Laboratory of Hubei Province for Coal Conversion and New Carbon Materials (Wuhan University of Science and Technology) (WKDM202110), the Chutian Scholar Program of Hubei Province of China (2021), and the Scientific Research Guidance Project of Hubei Provincial Department of Education (B2021014).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

electrocatalysts, low-cost efficient preparation, metal–organic frameworks, oxygen evolution reaction, terrace-like nanomaterials

> Received: May 30, 2023 Revised: July 11, 2023 Published online: July 28, 2023

16136829, 2023, 46, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207735 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] J. M. Huo, Z. L. Ma, Y. Wang, Y. J. Cao, Y. C. Jiang, S. N. Li, Y. Chen, M. C. Hu, Q. G. Zhai, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207044.
- [2] Y. Zhou, R. Abazari, J. Chen, M. Tahir, A. Kumar, R. R. Ikreedeegh, E. Rani, H. Singh, A. M. Kirillov, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *451*, 214264.
- [3] N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337.
- [4] N. Han, P. Liu, J. Jiang, L. Ai, Z. Shao, S. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 19912.
- [5] W. Chen, X. Zhu, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhou, K. K. Ostrikov, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 1826.
- [6] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [7] P. De Luna, C. Hahn, D. Higgins, S. A. Jaffer, T. F. Jaramillo, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2019**, *364*, eaav3506.
- [8] Y. Luo, Z. Zhang, M. Chhowalla, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *34*, 2108133.
- [9] L. S. Xie, G. Skorupskii, M. Dinca, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 8536.
- [10] M. Cheng, C. Lai, Y. Liu, G. Zeng, D. Huang, C. Zhang, L. Qin, L. Hu, C. Zhou, W. Xiong, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *368*, 80.
- [11] J. Meng, C. Niu, L. Xu, J. Li, X. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Xu, W. Chen, Q. Li, Z. Zhu, D. Zhao, L. Mai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8212.
- [12] C. C. Hou, L. Zou, Y. Wang, Q. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 21360.
- [13] W. Zhang, C. H. Xu, H. Zheng, R. Li, K. Zhou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200763.
- [14] L. Jiao, W. Yang, G. Wan, R. Zhang, X. Zheng, H. Zhou, S. H. Yu, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20589.
- [15] D. Zhu, M. Qiao, J. Liu, T. Tao, C. Guo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 8143.
- [16] H. Jia, Y. Yao, J. Zhao, Y. Gao, Z. Luo, P. Du, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 1188.
- [17] S. Kim, M. Ju, J. Lee, J. Hwang, J. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*,
- 9250. [18] K. Lan, Q. Wei, R. Wang, Y. Xia, S. Tan, Y. Wang, A. Elzatahry, P. Feng,
- L. Mai, D. Zhao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 16755. [19] P. Qiu, T. Zhao, Y. Fang, G. Zhu, X. Zhu, J. Yang, X. Li, W. Jiang, L. Wang, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *31*, 2007496.
- [20] M. Zhao, Y. Huang, Y. Peng, Z. Huang, Q. Ma, H. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 6267.
- [21] X. F. Lu, B. Y. Xia, S. Q. Zang, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 4634.
- [22] V. K. Au, K. Nakayashiki, H. Huang, S. Suginome, H. Sato, T. Aida, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 53.
- [23] Z. Hu, E. M. Mahdi, Y. Peng, Y. Qian, B. Zhang, N. Yan, D. Yuan, J.-C. Tan, D. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 8954.
- [24] F. Sun, G. Wang, Y. Ding, C. Wang, B. Yuan, Y. Lin, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1800584.
- [25] Z. Li, S. Deng, H. Yu, Z. Yin, S. Qi, L. Yang, J. Lv, Z. Sun, M. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 4230.
- [26] S. Rezaee, S. Shahrokhian, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *244*, 802.
- [27] S. Xie, F. Li, S. Xu, J. Li, W. Zeng, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2019**, *40*, 1205.
- [28] Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, L. Yu, G. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1901139.
- [29] R. R. Salunkhe, Y. V. Kaneti, J. Kim, J. H. Kim, Y. Yamauchi, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2016**, *49*, 2796.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 46, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207735 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [30] E. M. Miner, T. Fukushima, D. Sheberla, L. Sun, Y. Surendranath, M. Dinca, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10942.
- [31] N. Stock, S. Biswas, *Chem. Rev.* **2012**, *112*, 933.
- [32] B. S. Yeo, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 5587.
- [33] K. Liu, C. Zhang, Y. Sun, G. Zhang, X. Shen, F. Zou, H. Zhang, Z. Wu, E. C. Wegener, C. J. Taubert, J. T. Miller, Z. Peng, Y. Zhu, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 158.
- [34] X. F. Lu, L. F. Gu, J. W. Wang, J. X. Wu, P. Q. Liao, G. R. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1604437.
- [35] H. Wang, X. Zhang, F. Yin, W. Chu, B. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 22111.
- [36] D. Senthil Raja, X.-F. Chuah, S.-Y. Lu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801065.
- [37] K. Ge, S. Sun, Y. Zhao, K. Yang, S. Wang, Z. Zhang, J. Cao, Y. Yang, Y. Zhang, M. Pan, L. Zhu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 12097.
- [38] C. Qiao, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhu, C. Cao, X. Bao, J. Xu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 6878.
- [39] X. Zhang, S. Zhang, J. Li, E. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 22131.
- [40] L. L. Wu, Q. S. Wang, J. Li, Y. Long, Y. Liu, S. Y. Song, H. J. Zhang, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1704035.
- [41] C. J. Xuan, J. Wang, W. W. Xia, J. Zhu, Z. K. Peng, K. D. Xia, W. P. Xiao, H. L. L. Xin, D. L. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 7062.
- [42] X. Z. Fan, Q. Q. Pang, S. S. Yi, X. Du, S. Zhang, Z. Y. Liu, X. Z. Yue, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *292*, 120152.
- [43] Y. Zhu, J. Ciston, B. Zheng, X. Miao, C. Czarnik, Y. Pan, R. Sougrat, Z. Lai, C. E. Hsiung, K. Yao, I. Pinnau, M. Pan, Y. Han, *Nat. Mater.* **2017**, *16*, 532.
- [44] D. Zhang, Y. Zhu, L. Liu, X. Ying, C. E. Hsiung, R. Sougrat, K. Li, Y. Han, *Science* **2018**, *359*, 675.
- [45] G. I. Finch, K. P. Sinha, *Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser A* **1957**, *241*, 1.

- [46] J. C. J. J. Chenavas, J. J. Capponi, M. Marezio, *J. Solid State Chem.* **1973**, *6*, 1.
- [47] J. Zhang, J. Zhao, B. Jin, R. Peng, *Dalton Trans.* **2022**, *51*, 17620.
- [48] M. Jiang, X. P. Cao, D. D. Zhu, Y. X. Duan, J. M. Zhang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *196*, 699.
- [49] X. Zheng, L. Zhang, Z. Fan, Y. Cao, L. Shen, C. Au, L. Jiang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2019**, *374*, 793.
- [50] W. Huang, J. Li, X. Liao, R. Lu, C. Ling, X. Liu, J. Meng, L. Qu, M. Lin, X. Hong, X. Zhou, S. Liu, Y. Zhao, L. Zhou, L. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200270.
- [51] S. A. M. Rizvi, N. Iqbal, M. D. Haider, T. Noor, R. Anwar, S. Hanif, *Catal. Lett.* **2019**, *150*, 1397.
- [52] G. Nagaraju, S. C. Sekhar, B. Ramulu, S. K. Hussain, D. Narsimulu, J. S. Yu, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2020**, *13*, 17.
- [53] M. Al-Mamun, Y. Wang, P. Liu, Y. L. Zhong, H. Yin, X. Su, H. Zhang, H. Yang, D. Wang, Z. Tang, H. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 18314.
- [54] P. Thangasamy, S. Shanmuganathan, V. Subramanian, *Nanoscale Adv.* **2020**, *2*, 2073.
- [55] X. Jin, T. Tang, X. Tao, L. Huang, D. Xu, *J. Mol. Liq.* **2021**, *340*, 117290.
- [56] Y. Shi, D. Zhang, H. Miao, W. Zhang, X. Wu, Z. Wang, H. Li, T. Zhan, X. Chen, J. Lai, L. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 24261.
- [57] Y. Xu, B. Li, S. Zheng, P. Wu, J. Zhan, H. Xue, Q. Xu, H. Pang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 22070.
- [58] Y. Hu, G. Luo, L. Wang, X. Liu, Y. Qu, Y. Zhou, F. Zhou, Z. Li, Y. Li, T. Yao, C. Xiong, B. Yang, Z. Yu, Y. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *11*, 2002816.
- [59] Z. Gong, R. Liu, H. Gong, G. Ye, J. Liu, J. Dong, J. Liao, M. Yan, J. Liu, K. Huang, L. Xing, J. Liang, Y. He, H. Fei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 12284.
- [60] F. Zeng, C. Mebrahtu, L. Liao, A. K. Beine, R. Palkovits, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *69*, 301.