---
source: Guo 等 - 2024 - Zn‐Leaching Induced Rapid Self‐Reconstruction of NiFe‐Layered Double Hydroxides for Boosted Oxygen E.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 18.855s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:42:21.281235Z
---

# **Zn-Leaching Induced Rapid Self-Reconstruction of NiFe-Layered Double Hydroxides for Boosted Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Haonan Guo, Lei Zhang, Deliu Ou, Qiao Liu, Zhisheng Wu,\* Weiyou Yang, Zhi Fang,\* and Qing Shi\**

**Optimizing the active centers through reconstruction is recognized as the key to construct high-performance oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysts. Herein, a simple and rapid in situ leaching strategy to promote the self-reconstruction of NiFe-layered double hydroxides (LDHs) catalysts is reported. The trace Zn dopants are introduced in advance by a facile and one-step hydrothermal method, followed by leaching over the electrochemical activation process, which can remarkably reduce the formation potential of NiFeOOH active centers to enable the deeper self-reconstruction for the formation of abundant highly active centers. Moreover, the self-restructured NiFeOOH-VZn cannot only significantly lower the dehydrogenation energy barrier for the transformation from Ni(OH)2 to NiOOH, but also decrease the free energy barrier of rate determining step for the \*OH converted to \*O through a deprotonation process, thus significantly boosting the OER behaviors. As a proof of concept, the obtained NiFeOOH-VZn catalyst just requires a low overpotential of 240 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and delivers robust stability at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> over 120 h, which outperforms the benchmark of noble metal RuO2 and those of most non-noble metal catalysts ever reported.**

#### **1. Introduction**

The increasing prominence of environmental pollution and energy crisis, driven by the rapid development of economy and society, has necessitated to develop clean and renewable energy.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) Hydrogen energy has the merits of high combustion value and

H. Guo, L. Zhang, Z. Wu School of Material Science and Engineering Taiyuan University of Science and Technology

Taiyuan 030024, China E-mail: [zswu1963@tyust.edu.cn](mailto:zswu1963@tyust.edu.cn)

H. Guo, D. Ou, Q. Liu, W. Yang, Z. Fang, Q. Shi Institute of Micro/Nano Materials and Devices

Ningbo University of Technology Ningbo 315211, China

E-mail: [fangzhi@pku.edu.cn;](mailto:fangzhi@pku.edu.cn) [sq@nbut.edu.cn](mailto:sq@nbut.edu.cn)

Q. Shi

Zhejiang Institute of Tianjin University Ningbo University of Technology Ningbo, Zhejiang 315201, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202307069>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202307069**

carbon-free emission, which has been attracted extensive attention and become the research top.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) Electrocatalytic water splitting is an effective approach to provide hydrogen fuel, which involves cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and OER has been considered as the bottleneck for water splitting due to the sluggish reaction kinetics.[\[3\]](#page-10-0) At present, the state-of-the-art OER catalysts are noble metal-based materials (i.e., IrO2 or RuO2). However, their high cost, scarcity, and unsatisfactory stability limited their large-scale applications.[\[4\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, it is imperative and urgent to develop robust non-noble metal-based OER catalysts with excellent catalytic activity, low cost, and easy fabrication.

In recent years, non-noble metal-based OER catalysts, such as transition metal oxides, sulfides, nitrides, and hydroxides, have been extensively developed to design high-performance OER catalysts.[\[5\]](#page-10-0) Among

them, NiFe-based metal compounds have been considered as the potential alternatives of noble metal catalysts for OER in alkaline electrolytes, due to their advantages of abundance, budget, and intrinsic OER catalytic activity.[\[6\]](#page-10-0) In fact, most of the reported NiFe-based OER catalysts are precatalyst and high valence NiOOH or NiFeOOH formed via self-reconstruction have been confirmed as the actual active centers.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, the catalytic performance of catalysts is closely related to structural characteristics of their precatalyst, due to the morphology, electronic structure, and reconstruction potential of catalysts will significantly influence their electrochemical performance.[\[3a\]](#page-10-0) For example, Li et al. demonstrated that cation vacancy defects in the NiFe-LDH sample promote surface reconstruction process (crystalline Ni(OH)*<sup>x</sup>* → disordered Ni(OH)*<sup>x</sup>* → NiOOH) and enhance its OER performance.[\[8\]](#page-10-0) Mai and co-authors reported that S-doping NiFe-LDH can reduce the energy barrier and facilitate phase transformation into highly active S-doped oxyhydroxides (S-Ni*x*Fe*y*OOH).[\[9\]](#page-10-0) Yu et al. reported that in situ S leaching from the Fe-modified Ni hydroxysulfide (Fe-NiSOH) boosts its self-reconstruction and leads to generate highly active Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> species.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) Mo leaching from NiFeMoO*<sup>x</sup>* also promoted a rapid surface reconstruction to from (oxy)hydroxide active sites.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) Also,

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the structural evolution of NiFeZn-LDH. b) Structural model of Zn, Fe, and Ni vacancy in the NiFeZn-LDH sample. c) The corresponding vacancy formation energies of Fe, Ni, and Zn.

in situ V leaching from V-doping Ni3S2 precatalyst triggered the structural evolution from V-Ni3S2 to Ni(OH)2 and subsequently to NiOOH.[\[11\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, introducing defects or doping atoms is an effective way to promote the self-reconstruction and design high-performance OER catalysts. Furthermore, it is well known that defects or doping atoms cannot only boost selfreconstruction to form highly active sites, but also regulate electronic structure and optimize the absorption kinetic energy barrier of oxygen-contained intermediates, thus significantly improving the OER performance.[\[9,12\]](#page-10-0) Among numerous doped elements, Zn has been reported to be an interesting candidate dopant ascribed to its relatively low electronegativity and stable divalent state.[\[13\]](#page-10-0) Such as Zn-doped CoSe2 nanoarrays were reported as high-performance OER electrocatalysts, because the lower valence state of Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> weakens the binding strength of the active center (Co) to the oxygen-contained intermediate and surface Co atoms were converted CoOOH subsequently form CoO2 on the surface of Zn-CoSe2, thus promoting the OER activity.[\[14\]](#page-10-0) Zn also can regulate the electronic structure of Ni and Fe in Zndoped Ni/FeOOH catalyst, as well as stabilize the high oxidation state of Ni and Fe component, thus accelerating catalytic kinetics and activity.[\[15\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, by heating and stirring NiFeZn-LDH or CoFeZn-LDH materials in alkaline solution, Zn was selectively etched from materials to construct cation defects, thus designing high-performance OER catalysts.[\[16\]](#page-10-0) However, this method is complicated and catalytic performance is closely related to etching time and temperature. Consequently, it is highly desired to design a simple and rapid method to boost self-reconstruction and construct abundant highly active centers, thus fabricating highly efficient and low-cost OER catalysts. Furthermore, to provide theoretical guidance for the design of high-performance catalysts based on doping or defects, in situ characterization and theoretical calculations are needed to explore and reveal the actual active sites and catalytic mechanism of catalysts.

Herein, we propose a simple and rapid strategy by introducing Zn atom in NiFe-LDH and leaching Zn during subsequently electrochemical activation to promote self-reconstruction and form NiFeOOH active center, as depicted in **Figure 1**a. In situ Raman spectroscopy observations combined with electrochemical test demonstrate that in situ leaching of Zn triggers selfreconstruction to from NiFeOOH active centers, and lowers the formation potential of NiFeOOH. Simultaneously, theoretical calculation results clarify that in situ leaching of Zn significantly lowers the dehydrogenation energy barrier of the transformation from Ni(OH)2 to NiOOH and reduces the free energy barrier of rate-determining step (RDS) during the recognized 4e<sup>−</sup> adsorbate evolution process. These results confirm that in situ leaching of Zn is conducive to enhancing OER performance. As a result, the self-restructured NiFeOOH-VZn sample only requires a low overpotential of 240 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and delivers excellent stability at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 120 h, which outperforms the commercial noble metal RuO2 and most reported non-noble metal catalysts. This work systematically and deeply investigates the structural evolution of NiFeZn-LDH during OER process and **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 12, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202307069 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

reveals the catalytic mechanism of Zn doping in NiFe-LDH, providing a theoretical reference for the design and synthesis of high-perfromance OER catalysts.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH were synthesized by one-step hydrothermal method, subsequently, the sample NiFeOOH-Vzn was obtained by a simple electrochemical activation, as shown in Figure [1a,](#page-1-0) in which in situ leaching of Zn will promote the reconstruction to form NiFeOOH. In addition, to elucidate the mechanism of Zn leaching, theoretical calculations based on density functional theory (DFT) were employed to determine the vacancy formation energies of Ni, Fe, and Zn cations. Figure [1b,c](#page-1-0) demonstrates that the vacancy formation energies of Zn (1.82 eV) is lower than that of Fe (3.32 eV) and Ni (4.44 eV), suggesting Zn is more readily leached from the NiFeZn-LDH sample and Zn leaching may inhibit the precipitation of Ni and Fe.[\[17\]](#page-10-0) The morphology of the as-fabricated samples was first characterized by scanning electron microscope (SEM). As shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), NiFe-LDH is formed by aggregated irregular nanowires. Interestingly, compared with NiFe-LDH, the morphology of NiFeZn-LDH (**Figure** [2a](#page-3-0) and Figure S2, Supporting Information) evolves into nanosheets structure with a thickness of ≈5 nm according to the atomic force microscope (AFM) images (Figure S3, Supporting Information), this unique nanostructure provides an effective channel for facilitating electrolyte diffusion and gaseous product escape, thereby enhancing the stability and activity of the electrode.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) In addition, the SEM images of NiFeOOH-Vzn also demonstrate nanosheets structure, as shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), indicating electrochemical activation did not affect the morphology. To further study the structure and morphology of them, the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was applied. As demonstrated in Figure S5a (Supporting Information), the TEM image of NiFe-LDH is consistent with the SEM image, presenting an irregular aggregated nanowires. The HR-TEM image (Figure S5b,c, Supporting Information) and fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns (Figure S5d, Supporting Information) exhibit a lattice fringe of 0.197 nm corresponding to the (018) crystal plane of NiFe-LDH. The TEM images of NiFeZn-LDH (Figure [2b](#page-3-0) and Figure S6, Supporting Information) present a morphology of ultrathin nanosheets, and the HR-TEM image shows a lattice fringe of 0.258 nm (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0) corresponding to the (012) crystal plane of NiFe-LDH, which is also confirmed by the FFT patterns insert in Figure [2c.](#page-3-0) Furthermore, Figure [2d](#page-3-0) shows the high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF) image and the corresponding elemental mapping images of Ni, Fe, Zn, and O in NiFeZn-LDH sample, demonstrating that these four elements are uniform distribution in the NiFeZn-LDH nanosheets. Meanwhile, the atomic ratio of Ni:Fe:Zn is 10.4:3.8:1 (Table S1, Supporting Information) according to the test results of inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES). Figure [2e](#page-3-0) demonstrates the TEM image of NiFeOOH-VZn, further verifying the sample still keeps nanosheets structure after electrochemical activation. Furthermore, the HR-TEM (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0) presents an interplanar spacing of 0.219 nm assigned to the (104) planes of NiOOH,[\[18\]](#page-10-0) indicating NiFeZn-LDH sample undergoes self-reconfiguration to form NiFeOOH. Meanwhile, the selected area electron diffraction (Figure [2g\)](#page-3-0) also verifies the formation of NiFeOOH after electrochemical activation. Significantly, the element mapping (Figure [2h\)](#page-3-0) demonstrates the uniform distribution of Ni, Fe, and O elements on the NiFeOOH-VZn nanosheets, and Zn is almost non-existent. Additionally, Zn can not be detected by ICP testing either, as summarized in Table S1 (Supporting Information), indicating Zn was completely leached during the electrochemical activation process. The crystal structure and composition of the as-fabricated materials were analyzed via X-ray diffraction (XRD). As demonstrated in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-4-0) the NiFe-LDH sample shows a series of diffraction peaks at 2 values of 11.6°, 22.9°, 34.4°, 59.9°, and 61.3°, corresponding to the (003), (006), (012), (110), and (113) crystal face of NiFe-LDH (PDF#40-0215). And the diffraction peaks of NiFeZn-LDH match well with NiFe-LDH, however, the peak located at 11.6° in enlarged XRD patterns (Figure [3b\)](#page-4-0) exhibits a small angular shift with Zn doping, due to the isomorphic substitution of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> by Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> may induce a lattice distortion and lead to imperfections in the layers, since the ionic radius of Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.74 Å) is much larger than that of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.69 Å).[\[19\]](#page-10-0) The formation of Zn doped NiFe-LDH was further confirmed by Fourier translation infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, as demonstrated in the Figure [3c,](#page-4-0) the absorption bands at ≈496, 624, and 901 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are attributed to the lattice vibrations of M-O, M-O-M, and O-M-O in NiFe-LDH sample, respectively,[\[20\]](#page-10-0) while these absorption bands slightly shift in NiFeZn-LDH sample, further confirming the change of M-O, M-O-M, and O-M-O bonds in NiFe-LDH with Zn doping.

The surface chemical valence states and electronic properties of the as-fabricated materials were characterized via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Figure [3d](#page-4-0) shows the XPS spectra of NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH and NiFeOOH-VZn samples, and Zn was observed only in the NiFeZn-LDH sample. Specifically, the high-resolution spectra of Ni 2p (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0) located at 855.78 and 873.38 eV with two satellites are assigned to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 of Ni2<sup>+</sup> in NiFe-LDH sample. While compared with NiFe-LDH, a negative shift of ≈0.38 eV for the two peaks in NiFeZn-LDH sample, due to the stronger polarization effect of Zn in the NiFeZn-LDH, and the electrons could be attracted from the antibonding orbitals to the empty orbits, thus lowering the valence states of Ni.[\[9\]](#page-10-0) However, the high-resolution Ni 2p spectra of NiFeOOH-VZn show a positive shift of ≈0.78 eV in Ni 2p3/2 compared to NiFeZn-LDH sample, which also proves that Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> was oxidized to higher valence state and results in the formation NiFeOOH during the electrochemical activation process. As for Fe 2p spectra (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0), two peaks at ≈712.08 and 724.88 eV can be indexed to Fe 2p3/2 and Fe 2p1/2 of Fe3<sup>+</sup> in NiFe-LDH sample, and there is a positive shift of ≈0.21 and 0.24 eV for the two peaks in NiFeZn-LDH and NiFeOOH-VZn samples. The high-resolution spectra of Zn 2p (Figure [3g\)](#page-4-0) indicate that Zn was compeletly leached after electrochemical activation. Figure [3h](#page-4-0) demonstrates the highresolution of O 1s spectra, peaks located at ≈529.34, ≈530.96, and ≈531.94 eV are assigned to metal-oxygen (M-O) bond, metalhydroxide (M-OH) bond, and adsorbed H2O, respectively.[\[22\]](#page-10-0) Remarkably, the abundant M-OH bond suggests that the main components of both NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH samples are metal hydroxides, while the major M-O bonds in the NiFeOOH-VZn sample are derived from metal oxyhydroxides. The peak area ratio of *S*M-O/*S*M-OH (Figure [3i\)](#page-4-0) indicates that Zn leaching by electrochemical activation leads to an increased conversion of

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** The structural characterization of NiFeZn-LDH and NiFeOOH-VZn samples. a) SEM image, b) TEM image, c) high-resolution TEM image (inset FFT pattern) of NiFeZn-LDH sample, d) dark field TEM image and corresponding element mapping of Ni, Fe, Zn, and O. e) TEM image, f) highresolution TEM image, g) corresponding SAED pattern of NiFeOOH-VZn sample, h) dark field TEM image and corresponding element mapping of Ni, Fe, Zn, and O.

hydroxides into hydroxyl oxides on the surface of electrode materials. Moreover, in the high-resolution of O 1s spectra, compared with NiFe-LDH, a negative shift of ∼0.31 eV and positive shift ≈0.61 eV are observed in the NiFeZn-LDH and NiFeOOH-VZn, respectively, suggesting that the electronic structure of oxygen is effected by both Zn doping and subsequently leaching.

The as-fabricated materials were performed in 1 m KOH electrolyte to evaluate their OER performance, for comparison, the commercial RuO2 was tested at the same conditions. As shown

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) XRD patterns of NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH, b) corresponding enlarged XRD patterns at 11.6°. c) FTIR spectra of NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH. d) XPS survey spectra, high-resolution spectr of Ni 2p (e), Fe 2p (f), Zn 2p (g), and O 1s (h) of NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH, and NiFeOOH-VZn samples. i) The corresponding ratio of *S*M-O/*S*M-OH.

in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-5-0) compared with NiFe-LDH, RuO2, and NiFeZn-LDH samples, NiFeOOH-VZn exhibits remarkable OER catalytic activity. It is clear that NiFeOOH-VZn requires only a low overpotential of 240 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is far better than those of NiFeZn-LDH (312 mV), NiFe-LDH (330 mV), and RuO2 (316 mV; Figure S7a, Supporting Information). Furthermore, at an overpotential of 250 mV, the current density of NiFeOOH-VZn sample is as high as 91 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is ten times to that of NiFe-LDH (9 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure S7b, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the Tafel slope of NiFeOOH-VZn (19 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) is much lower than both of NiFe-LDH (63 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and RuO2 (58 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), suggesting NiFeOOH-VZn has excellent catalytic kinetics (Figure [4b\)](#page-5-0). Meanwhile, compared with most reported non-noble metal electrocatalysts, the NiFeOOH-VZn sample possesses a very small Tafel slope value and superior overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0), indicating NiFeOOH-VZn owns excellent kinetic characteristics and superior OER performance. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was further conducted to evaluate the OER kinetics of the as-fabricated materials. As shown in Figure [4d](#page-5-0) and Table S3 (Supporting Information), the charge transfer resistances (*R*ct) of NiFe-LDH, NiFeOOH-VZn, and RuO2 is 10.55, 5.60, and 25.80 Ω, respectively, further indicating the NiFeOOH-VZn sample has superior interface electron transfer kinetics, which is favorable to improve the catalytic efficiency.[\[23\]](#page-10-0) Electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) is usually used to estimate the actual

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** OER performance in alkaline electrolyte. a) LSV curves of NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH, NiFeOOH- $V_{Zn}$  and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub>. b) Corresponding Tafel slope curves. c) Tafel slope and overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of NiFeOOH- $V_{Zn}$  in comparison with most of the reported non-noble electrocatalysts. d) Nyquist plots of NiFe-LDH, NiFeOOH- $V_{Zn}$ , and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub>. e) The double-layer capacitance of NiFe-LDH, NiFeOOH- $V_{Zn}$ , and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub>. f) Chronopotentiometry curves of NiFeOOH- $V_{Zn}$  and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> at a current density of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 120 h. g) LSV curves of Ni<sub>1-x</sub>FeZn<sub>x</sub>-LDH. h) LSV curves of NiFeZn-LDH and e-NiFeZn-LDH.

numbers of exposed active sites and the intrinsic activity of the electrode materials, which is assessed by the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) derived from CV curves at different scan rates (Figure S8, Supporting Information).<sup>[24]</sup> The  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of NiFeOOH-V<sub>Zn</sub> sample is 6.9 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is much higher than both NiFeLDH (1.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and RuO<sub>2</sub> (4.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>; Figure 4e). In addition, long-term durability is another key index to evaluate the performance of catalysts in practical applications. As shown in Figure 4f, the NiFeOOH-V<sub>Zn</sub> sample exhibits good stability with a potential of 1.56 V for 120 h, however, the potential of the commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> increases from 1.90 to 1.98 V, further evidencing NiFeOOH-V<sub>Zn</sub> possesses excellent activity and stability.

To explore the optimal Zn content,  $\mathrm{Ni}_{1.x}\mathrm{FeZn}_x$ -LDH (X = 0.05, 0.1, 0.15, 0.20) samples with varied precursor ratios of  $\mathrm{Zn^{2+}}$  were fabricated. Figure S9 (Supporting Information) shows that no new diffraction peaks were observed in the XRD patterns of  $\mathrm{Ni}_{1.x}\mathrm{FeZn}_x$ -LDH compared to  $\mathrm{NiFeZn\text{-}LDH}$ . And the SEM

images (Figure S10, Supporting Information) also demonstrate nanosheets structure in Ni $_{\rm I-x}$ FeZn $_{\rm x}$ -LDH samples. However, the electrocatalytic activities of Ni $_{\rm I-x}$ FeOOH-V $_{\rm Zn}$ -X (X = 0.05, 0.1, 0.15, 0.20) evolved from Ni $_{\rm I-x}$ FeZn $_{\rm x}$ -LDH via electrochemical activation were closely related to Zn content, as shown in Figure 4g and Figure S7 (Supporting Information). The electrocatalytic activities of Ni $_{\rm I-x}$ FeOOH-V $_{\rm Zn}$ -X decrease with X increase from 0.1 to 0.2, consisting with the expected results due to NiFeOOH is the actual active sites in the Ni $_{\rm I-x}$ FeOOH-V $_{\rm Zn}$ -X samples, which will be elaborated in detail later on.

To further investigate the influence of Zn on the catalytic activity of NiFeZn-LDH sample. NiFeZn-LDH was etched under alkaline conditions according to the reported method, [16b] the product was named as e-NiFeZn-LDH. Figure S11 (Supporting Information) presents e-NiFeZn-LDH maintains the nanosheets structure, suggesting the morphology was undamaged during the etching process. As well as Figure S12 (Supporting

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) The evolution of the initial CV curve in the potential range of 1.12–1.72 V at a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. In situ Raman spectra of NiFeZn-LDH (b) and NiFe-LDH (c). d) The ratio of *IB/IS* of NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH. e) The value of Δ*IS/IB* of NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH. f) CV curves of NiFe-LDH and NiFeZn-LDH at a scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> without iR compensation. High-resolution XPS spectra of g) Zn 2p, h) Ni 2p, i) Fe 2p in NiFeZn-LDH, NiFeOOH-VZn, and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn.

Information) shows that the XRD pattern of e-NiFeZn-LDH matches well with NiFeZn-LDH. Part of the Zn was successfully etched in e-NiFeZn-LDH sample according to ICP test (Table S1, Supporting Information). Figure [4h](#page-5-0) demonstrates that the OER performance of e-NiFeZn-LDH significantly reduced in comparison with NiFeOOH-VZn, confirming Zn plays a vital role in boosting the OER performance in the NiFeZn-LDH sample.

To better in-depth insight into the electrocatalytic mechanism and reveal the real active sites. In situ Raman spectroscopy was used to further penetrate the mechanism of Zn doping in the NiFe-LDH. As shown in **Figure 5**a, the CV curve test includes the time-current-potential relationship for providing the applied potential (1.12–1.72 V). According to the in situ Raman spectroscopy evolution in Figure 5b and Figure S13a (Supporting Information), the dynamic reconstruction process can be divided into two stages: In the first stage (0–250 s, 1.12–1.62 V), three characteristic peaks are observed at ≈452, 525, and 696 cm<sup>−</sup>1, thereinto, peaks located at 452 and 525 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> are attributed to the Eg and A1g stretching modes of NiII-OH for Ni(OH)2, as well as peak at 696 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (denoted as A peak) is indexed to the FeIII-O

of FeOOH.[\[25\]](#page-10-0) Obviously, the intensity and shift of Raman spectroscopy remained unchanged at this stage. In the second stage (250–600 s, 1.12–1.62 V, and 1.72–1.12 V), however, peaks at ≈452 and 525 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> has apparently shifted, the newly emerged Raman peaks at ≈478 (denoted as B peak) and 565 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (denoted as S peak) are assigned to the Eg bending vibration and the A1g stretching vibration of NiIII-O in NiOOH, respectively.[\[26\]](#page-10-0) As the potential rises from 1.62 to 1.72 V and retracts from 1.72 to 1.12 V, the intensity of A, B, and S peaks gradually strengthen, demonstrating that the formation of more NiFeOOH active sites and the transformation from Ni(OH)2 species to NiOOH is an irreversible evolution. In contrast, the intensity of A, B, and S peaks of NiFe-LDH is weaker and the structure reconstruction needs higher potential, as demonstrated in Figure [5c](#page-6-0) and Figure S13b (Supporting Information). In addition, NiOOH contains and phase, a higher value of *I*B/*I*<sup>S</sup> manifests the formation of -NiOOH and the presence of high oxidized Ni<sup>3</sup>+ , which is considered as the high active center for OER.[\[27\]](#page-10-0) Figure [5d](#page-6-0) shows that the ratio of *I*B/*I*<sup>S</sup> of NiFeZn-LDH sample is higher than that of NiFe-LDH sample, indicating that the intrinsic activity of NiFeZn-LDH is better than that of NiFe-LDH.[\[28\]](#page-10-0) The degree of the self-reconstruction process can be further evaluated by the values of Δ*I*S/*I*B. [\[8\]](#page-10-0) As shown in Figure [5e,](#page-6-0) the value of Δ*IS*/*IB* of NiFeZn-LDH is significantly higher than that of NiFe-LDH, implying that NiFeZn-LDH undergoes deeper selfreconstruction in comparison with NiFe-LDH. This is also confirmed by the CVcurves of NiFeZn-LDH and NiFe-LDH. As displayed in Figure [5f,](#page-6-0) compared with NiFe-LDH, the CV curve of NiFeZn-LDH exhibits a larger oxidation peak area corresponding to the transition from Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, [\[29\]](#page-10-0) and the onset potential of the transition from Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> is 1.42 V in NiFeZn-LDH sample, which is lower than that of NiFe-LDH (1.46 V). Moreover, it is obvious that the catalytic activity improvement of NiFeZn-LDH is significantly better than that of NiFe-LDH during the electrochemical activation process. The results indicate that NiFeZn-LDH requires a lower self-reconstruction potential and forms more highly active NiFeOOH sites in comparison with NiFe-LDH.

To further investigate the structure evolution and clarify the catalytic mechanism of NiFeZn-LDH catalyst. The sample after the stability testing (Post-NiFeOOH-VZn) was first characterized by XPS. The XPS survey spectra (Figure S14, Supporting Information) and high-resolution of Zn 2p spectra (Figure [5g\)](#page-6-0) evidence that Zn element cannot be detected after stability testing either. These results indicate that Zn has been leached after electrochemical activation and redeposition of Zn did not occur during long-term stability testing. The high-resolution of Ni 2p spectra after electrochemical activation and stability testing (Figure [5h\)](#page-6-0) show a positive shift of ≈0.8 eV for Ni 2p3/2 in comparison with NiFeZn-LDH, which proves that Ni shifts toward high valence state and the formation of NiOOH in NiFeOOH-VZn and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn samples,[\[30\]](#page-10-0) further confirming that the high active sites is formed during the electrochemical activation process. Meanwhile, the Fe 2p spectra (Figure [5i\)](#page-6-0) also shift to higher valence in NiFeOOH-VZn and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn samples. These results indicate that Zn has been leached and the formation of a highly active NiFeOOH centers via rapid electrochemical activation. Meanwhile, as demonstrated in Table S2 (Supporting Information), compared with NiFeOOH-VZn, the relative content of Ni decreases and Fe remains basically unchanged after longterm stability testing, which may be due to the Ni and Fe ions dissolved during the stability testing and Fe occurred redeposition at this process.[\[17\]](#page-10-0) In the O 1s spectra (**Figure 6**[a\)](#page-8-0), the peak area ratio (*S*M-O/*S*M-OH) (Figure [6b\)](#page-8-0) is 0.95 and 0.27 for NiFeOOH-VZn and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn samples, respectively. The significant decrease of *SM-O/SM-OH* after long-term stability testing may be attributed to the partial dissolution of the active material (NiOOH) during long-term stability testing.[\[31\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, compared with NiFeZn-LDH, the high-resolution of O 1s positively shift in the samples of NiFeOOH-VZn and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn, suggesting that the coordination between M atom and O atom has changed obviously after electrochemical activation. Raman spectra at ≈470 and 552 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> correspond to the (Ni-O) and (Ni-O) vibrational modes of NiOOH, and peak at ≈690 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is ascribed to the Fe–O vibrational mode of FeOOH,[\[32\]](#page-10-0) as shown in Figure [6c,](#page-8-0) the Raman spectroscopy also confirmed the formation of NiFeOOH after electrochemical activation. In addition, the morphology and structure of Post-NiFeOOH-VZn were fully characterized by SEM and TEM to explore the structural stability. The SEM images (Figure [6d](#page-8-0) and Figure S15, Supporting Information) and TEM images (Figure [6e](#page-8-0) and Figure S16, Supporting Information) of Post-NiFeOOH-VZn demonstrate that its nanosheet structure was not destroyed after the stability test, suggesting NiFeOOH-VZn sample owns good structural stability. Meanwhile, few lattice stripes were observed in the HR-TEM images (Figure [6f](#page-8-0) and Figure S17, Supporting Information) with a lattice spacing of 0.239 and 0.219 nm attributed to the (011) facets of NiOOH and (140) faces of FeOOH, respectively. The EDS result (Figure [6g\)](#page-8-0) shows that the elements of Fe, Ni, and O are uniform distribution in Post-NiFeOOH-VZn sample, while Zn cannot be detected either. The above results clarify that in situ leaching of Zn via a rapid electrochemical activation causes a deeper selfreconstruction and forms abundant NiFeOOH active species at low potential, as well as maintains excellent structural stability, thus significantly enhancing the OER catalytic activity and stability.

The above *in/*ex situ structural characterizations reveal that in situ of leaching Zn lowers the self-reconstruction potential and induces the formation of abundant NiFeOOH active centers. To further clarify the role of Zn doping and subsequently Zn leaching in NiFeZn-LDH sample, theoretical calculations based on density functional theory (DFT) were further carried out. First, partialdensity of states (PDOS) of NiFe-LDH shows that the band gap between the valence and conduction bands is ≈1.173 eV (**Figure 7**[a\)](#page-9-0), while an ultra-small bandgap of ≈0.288 eV is observed in NiFeZn–LDH (Figure [7b\)](#page-9-0), indicating the conductivity of NiFeZn-LDH is superior to that of NiFe-LDH. The decrease of the bandgap is due to the promotion of electron transfer on the surface of the nickel atom by Zn doping, which causes the d spin orbitals of Ni to shift downward to a lower energy level.[\[5b\]](#page-10-0) The improvement of conductivity is beneficial for electron and proton transport, thus promoting the self-reconstruction and enhancing the OER performance. Furthermore, the dehydrogenation energy barrier from Ni(OH)2 to NiOOH was further calculated for NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH, and NiFeOOH-VZn (after Zn atoms leaching and self-reconstruction structure). As shown in Figure [7c–e,](#page-9-0) the dehydrogenation energy barrier of NiFeOOH-VZn (5.61 eV) is lower than both of NiFe-LDH (7.07 eV) and

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) High-resolution XPS spectra of O 1s of NiFeZn-LDH, NiFeOOH-VZn, and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn, b) corresponding ratio of SM-O/SM-OH. c) Raman spectra of NiFeZn-LDH, NiFeOOH-VZn, and Post-NiFeOOH-VZn. d) SEM image of Post-NiFeOOH-VZn. e) TEM image and f) high-resolution TEM image of Post-NiFeOOH-VZn. g) EDS spectra of Post-NiFeOOH-VZn (inset the element mapping of Ni, Fe, Zn, and O and element content).

NiFeZn-LDH (6.64 eV). The results demonstrate that the Zn leaching accelerates the conversion of Ni(OH)2 to NiOOH and greatly reduces the generation energy of high-valence nickel. This is mainly because Zn leaching creates new vacancies around which two hydroxyl groups (Figure [7f\)](#page-9-0) can easily form hydrogen bonds, always with one hydrogen atom easily removed, which in turn promotes the hydroxylation process.[\[33\]](#page-10-0) In addition, based on the widely recognized 4e<sup>−</sup> adsorbate evolution mechanism (\*, \*OH, \*O and \*OOH, where \* represents the active sites),[\[34\]](#page-10-0) the optimized structures of NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH and NiFeOOH-VZn catalysts adsorbed with intermediates are displayed in Figure S18a–c (Supporting Information), and their Gibbs free energy changes for each step are plotted in Figure [7g.](#page-9-0) For NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH, and NiFeOOH-VZn samples, the rate determining step (RDS) is \*OH converted to the \*O through a deprotonation process, with a maximum free energy barrier ∆*G*<sup>2</sup> (\*O) of 1.19, 0.54, and 0.43 eV (Figure [7h\)](#page-9-0) for NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH, and NiFeOOH-VZn samples, respectively. The decrease of energy barrier in RDS for NiFeZn-LDH and NiFeOOH-VZn is beneficial to facilitate the desorption of OH and improve the OER catalytic activity. The above results clarified Zn doping improves conductivity which is conducive to promote self-reconstruction, as well as in situ leaching of Zn subsequent boosts the hydroxylation process and optimizes the intermediate adsorption energy, thus significantly enhancing the catalytic activity and improving the kinetic performance.

#### **3. Conclusions**

In summary, we have demonstrated a facile and efficient in situ leaching strategy to promote the self-reconstruction of NiFe-LDH materials for exploring advanced OER catalysts. Based on the

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 7.** Partial density of states (PDOS) curves of the NiFe-LDH (a) and NiFeZn-LDH (b). Free energy diagrams of c) NiFe-LDH, d) NiFeZn-LDH, and e) NiFeOOH-VZn. f) Evolution of the atomic states before and after the self-reconstruction that occurs with zinc leaching. Note that the blue dashed line is the hydrogen bond and the oval dashed line is the position of the hydrogen bond. g) Reaction free-energy diagrams for OER on NiFe-LDH, NiFeZn-LDH, and NiFeOOH-VZn at different steps. h) Reaction energy barrier for each step of OER.

in*/*ex situ structural characterization and theoretical calculations, the mechanism of NiFeZn-LDH for boosted OER performance could be mainly attributed to following points: i) In situ leaching of Zn induces the deeper self-reconstruction, thus enabling the formation of abundant highly active centers at low potential; ii) In situ leaching of Zn lowers the dehydrogenation energy barrier for the transformation from Ni(OH)2 to NiOOH, thereby decreasing the potential for the formation of NiFeOOH active centers; iii) The self-restructured NiFeOOH-VZn significantly reduces the free energy of the rate-determining step, consequently facilitating the desorption of OH toward improved OER catalytic activity. As a result, the self-restructured NiFeOOH-VZn catalysts exhibit overall excellent OER behaviors with a low overpotential of 240 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with exceptional durability at a current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 120 h, superior to the benchmark of noble metal RuO2 and those of most non-noble metal catalysts ever reported,

representing their significance to be applied as high-performance OER catalysts toward practical applications.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by the Fundamental Research Program of Shanxi Province (Grant No. 20210302124227), and Outstanding Doctor Return Jin Research Fund (No.20222070).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>**Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

in situ leaching, in situ raman spectroscopy, NiFe-layered double hydroxides, oxygen evolution reaction, self-reconstruction

> Received: August 16, 2023 Revised: October 18, 2023 Published online: November 14, 2023

- [1] S. Zhang, C. Tan, R. Yan, X. Zou, F.-L. Hu, Y. Mi, C. Yan, S. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202302795.
- [2] J. Wang, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 1645.
- [3] a) X. Z. Song, N. Zhang, X. F. Wang, Z. Tan, *Mater. Today Energy* **2021**, *19*, 100597; b) L. Ma, S. Chen, H. Li, Z. Ruan, Z. Tang, Z. Liu, Z. Wang, Y. Huang, Z. Pei, J. A. Zapien, C. Zhi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2521.
- [4] a) T. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Yu, Q. Ye, L. Yang, Y. Li, H. J. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202195; b) Y. Qin, C. Cheng, H. Geng, C. Wang, W. Hu, W. Xu, Z. Shuai, D. Zhu, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2016**, *18*, 14094; c) H. Zhang, W. Tian, J. Zhang, X. Duan, S. Liu, H. Sun, S. Wang, *Mater. Today Energy* **2022**, *23*, 100915.
- [5] a) W. Xu, R. Zhao, Q. Li, B. Sun, J. Wu, W. Zhong, Y. Gao, X.u Nan, Q. Huang, Y. Yang, X. Li, N. Yang, Q. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, 202300978; b) P. Li, X. Duan, Y. Kuang, Y. Li, G. Zhang, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1703341; c) P. Thangavel, H. Lee, T.-H. Kong, S. Kwon, A. Tayyebi, J.-H. Lee, S. M. Choi, Y. Kwon, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *13*, 2203401.
- [6] a) G. Chen, T. Wang, J. Zhang, P. Liu, H. Sun, X. Zhuang, M. Chen, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706279; b) M. Gong, Y. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liang, J. Z. Wu, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 8452.
- [7] M. Cai, Q. Zhu, X. Wang, Z. Shao, L. Yao, H. Zeng, X. Wu, J. Chen, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209338.
- [8] Y.-J. Wu, J. Yang, T.-X. Tu, W.-Q. Li, P.-F. Zhang, Y. Zhou, J.-F. Li, J.-T. Li, S.-G. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26829.
- [9] H. Lei, L. Ma, Q. Wan, S. Tan, B. Yang, Z. Wang, W. Mai, H. J. Fan, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2202522.
- [10] C. Huang, Q. Zhou, D. Duan, L. Yu, W. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Liu, B. Peng, P. An, J. Zhang, L. Li, J. Yu, Y. Yu, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4647.
- [11] X. Liu, J. Wang, H. Liao, J. Chen, S. Zhang, L. Tan, X. Zheng, D. Chu, P. Tan, J. Pan, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 5027.
- [12] a) G. Yilmaz, S. B. Peh, D. Zhao, G. W. Ho, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6*, 1901129; b) G. Yilmaz, T. Yang, Y. Du, X. Yu, Y. P. Feng, L. Shen, G. W. Ho, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6*, 1900140.

- [13] a) Q. Dong, Q. Wang, Z. Dai, H. Qiu, X. Dong, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2016**, *8*, 26902; b) J. Wang, J. Liu, B. Zhang, F. Cheng, Y. Ruan, X. Ji, K. Xu, C. Chen, L. Miao, J. Jiang, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *53*, 144.
- [14] K. Zhang, G. Zhang, J. Qu, H. Liu, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1907001.
- [15] X. Zhang, H. Yi, M. Jin, Q. Lian, Y.u Huang, Z. Ai, R. Huang, Z. Zuo, C. Tang, A. Amini, F. Jia, S. Song, C. Cheng, *Small* **2022**, *18*, e2203710.
- [16] a) Y. Wang, M. Qiao, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Small* **2018**, *14*, e1800136; b) Q. Xie, Z. Cai, P. Li, D. Zhou, Y. Bi, X. Xiong, E. Hu, Y. Li, Y. Kuang, X. Sun, *Nano Res.* **2018**, *11*, 4524; c) Z. Kong, J. Chen, X. Wang, X. Long, X. She, D. Li, D. Yang, *Materials Advances* **2021**, *2*, 7932.
- [17] H.-J. Liu, S. Zhang, W.-Y. Yang, N. Yu, C.-Y. Liu, Y.-M. Chai, B. Dong, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, 2303776.
- [18] G. Chang, Y. Zhou, J. Wang, H. Zhang, P. Yan, H. B. Wu, X.-Y. Yu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2206768.
- [19] a) J.-H. Lee, B.-O. Park, *Thin Solid Films* **2003**, *426*, 94; b) L. Peng, N.a Yang, Y. Yang, Q. Wang, X. Xie, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 24612.
- [20] H. Xu, B. Wang, C. Shan, P. Xi, W. Liu, Y. Tang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2018**, *10*, 6336.
- [21] a) K. Wang, H. Du, S. He, L. Liu, K. Yang, J. Sun, Y. Liu, Z. Du, L. Xie, W. Ai, W. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2005587; b) L. Yu, L. Wu, B. Mcelhenny, S. Song, D. Luo, F. Zhang, Y. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3439.
- [22] a) A. Moysiadou, S. Lee, C.-S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 11901; b) Q. Zhang, W. Xiao, W. H. Guo, Y. X. Yang, J. L. Lei, H. Q. Luo, N. B. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102117; c) M. Fang, D. Han, W.-B. Xu, Y. Shen, Y. Lu, P. Cao, S. Han, W. Xu, D. Zhu, W. Liu, J. C. Ho, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2001059.
- [23] H. Xu, C. Shan, X. Wu, M. Sun, B. Huang, Y. Tang, C.-H. Yan, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 2949.
- [24] Q. Xia, W. Li, Z. Miao, S. Chou, H. Liu, *Nano Res.* **2017**, *10*, 4055.
- [25] M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329.
- [26] M. Liu, K.-A. Min, B. Han, L. Y. S. Lee, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2101281.
- [27] N. Zhang, X. Feng, D. Rao, X. Deng, L. Cai, B. Qiu, R. Long, Y. Xiong, Y. Lu, Y. Chai, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4066.
- [28] Y. Li, Y. Wu, M. Yuan, H. Hao, Z. Lv, L. Xu, B.o Wei, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *318*, 121825.
- [29] G. Liu, P. Li, G. Zhao, X. Wang, J. Kong, H. Liu, H. Zhang, K. Chang, X. Meng, T. Kako, J. Ye, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 9128.
- [30] a) Y. Hu, T. Xiong, M.-S. J. T. Balogun, Y. Huang, D. Adekoya, S. Zhang, Y. Tong, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2020**, *15*, 100267; b) Q. Liu, H. Zhao, M. Jiang, Q. Kang, W. Zhou, P. Wang, F. Zhou, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 13638; c) J. Zhang, X. Shang, H. Ren, J. Chi, H. Fu, B. Dong, C. Liu, Y. Chai, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1905107.
- [31] L. Francàs, S. Corby, S. Selim, D. Lee, C. A. Mesa, R. Godin, E. Pastor, I. E. L. Stephens, K.-S. Choi, J. R. Durrant, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5208.
- [32] Z. Yan, H. Sun, X. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Zhao, H. Li, W. Xie, F. Cheng, J. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2373.
- [33] B. Zhou, Y. Li, Y. Zou, W. Chen, W. Zhou, M. Song, Y. Wu, Y. Lu, J. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22908.
- [34] L. Gao, X. Cui, C. D. Sewell, J. Li, Z. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 8428