---
source: He 等 - 2023 - Atomically Dispersed Silver Atoms Embedded in NiCo Layer Double Hydroxide Boost Oxygen Evolution Rea.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 22.123s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:46:27.080732Z
---

# **Atomically Dispersed Silver Atoms Embedded in NiCo Layer Double Hydroxide Boost Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Wenjun He, Rui Zhang, Hui Liu,\* Qiuyan Hao, Ying Li, Xuerong Zheng, Caichi Liu, Jun Zhang, and Huolin L. Xin\**

**Bimetallic layered double hydroxides (LDHs) are promising catalysts for anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in alkaline media. Despite good stability, NiCo LDH displays an unsatisfactory OER activity relative to the most robust NiFe LDH and CoFe LDH. Herein, a novel NiCo LDH electrocatalyst modified with single-atom silver grown on carbon cloth (AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC) that exhibits exceptional OER activity and stability in 1.0 m KOH is reported. The AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC catalyst only requires a low overpotential of 192 mV to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , obviously boosting the OER activity of NiCo LDH/CC (410 mV@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ). Inspiringly, AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC can maintain its high activity for up to 500 h at a large current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , exceeding most single-atom OER catalysts. In situ Raman spectroscopy studies uncover that the in situ formed NiCoOOH during OER is the real active species. Hard X-ray absorption spectrum (XAS) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations validate that single-atom Ag occupying Ni site increases the chemical valence of Ni elements, and then weakens the adsorption of oxygen-contained intermediates on Ni sites, fundamentally accounting for the enhanced OER performance.**

**1. Introduction**

Electrochemical alkaline water splitting to produce H2 by the means of renewable sources such as solar, wave, and wind energies has attracted great interest in both scientific and industrial communities all over the world.[1] During electrolysis of water, the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) kinetics at the

W. He, H. Liu, Q. Hao, Y. Li, C. Liu, J. Zhang

Key Laboratory of Special Functional Materials for Ecological Environ-

ment and Information (Ministry of Education)

Hebei University of Technology

Tianjin 300130, China

E-mail: 2013104@hebut.edu.cn

R. Zhang, H. L. Xin

Department of Physics and Astronomy

University of California Irvine, CA 92697, USA

E-mail: huolin.xin@uci.edu

X. Zheng

State Key Laboratory of Marine Resource Utilization in South China Sea, School of Materials Science and Engineering

Hainan University

Haikou 570228, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202301610.

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202301610**

anode that involves complicated four electrons coupled with protons transfer process is more sluggish than the hydrogen evolution reaction at the cathode, resulting in more energy consumption.[2] Thus far, taking account of catalytic activity and stability, noble metal oxides such as IrO2 and RuO2 are still regarded as the state-of-theart OER catalysts, but they are scarce and expensive.[3] Therefore, exploiting low-cost non-noble metal OER catalysts that possess good activity and long-term durability is urgent for large-scale electrochemical hydrogen generation.

Recently, many kinds of earth-abundant OER catalysts, such as 3d transitionmetal layered double hydroxides (LDHs),[4] perovskite oxides,[5] spinel oxides,[6] selenides,[7] sulfides,[8] phosphides[9] et al., have been developed rapidly. From the view of activity, bimetallic NiFe LDH is considered as the most advanced OER catalyst in alkaline solution due to bime-

tallic synergistic effects, whereas CoFe LDH shows comparable activity.[10] Strasser et al.[11] investigated the structure evolution of MFe LDHs (M = Ni, Co) under high applied anodic potentials and observed that the as-prepared *α*-phase MFe LDHs are oxidized to the active *γ*-phase MFeOOH. Despite the controversy concerning the real active site of MFeOOH (M or Fe), the agreement on the key role of Fe in boosting the OER activity is almost universal. However, the activity of these Fe-incorporated bimetallic oxyhydroxides declines rapidly during OER process. Markovic et al.[12] studied the active-stability trends of monometallic and Fe-modified (oxy)hydroxides for OER and found that Fe is more easy to dissolve into the alkaline electrolyte compared to Ni and Co components, accounting for the degradation of these catalysts. Du's[13] investigation indicated that the dissolved Fe from NiFeOOH lattice would redeposit on its surface to generate a secondary phase of FeOOH, which deactivated the catalyst. These discoveries motivate researchers to explore Fe-free bimetallic (oxy)hydroxides/LDHs that possess both high activity and good stability in alkaline media, but it is yet to be satisfactory.

NiCo LDH, as one kind of Fe-free bimetallic LDHs, has been neglected for a long time because of its unsatisfactory OER activity relative to NiFe LDH and CoFe LDH, despite a good stability.[14] According to the previous studies, the inferior OER activity of NiCo LDH is mainly attributed to the strong bonding

**www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

interaction between active Ni sites and oxygen-contained intermediates, as well as its poor conductivity.[15] Many attempts have been made to regulate the electronic structure of NiCo LDH and enhance their intrinsic activity through heteroatoms doping,[16] heterostructure constructing,[17] and defects regulation.[18] However, despite the progress, the OER activity of NiCo LDH is still far less than the most robust Fe-contained bimetallic LDHs catalysts such as NiFe LDH and CoFe LDH. Hence, it is urgently needed to further optimize the electronic structure of NiCo LDH through other strategy to boost the intrinsic OER activity, meanwhile, without sacrificing its good stability.

Recently, noble-metal single-atom modification has emerged as a promising strategy to optimize the electronic structure of OER catalysts and boost their intrinsic activity, such as singleatom Au/NiFe LDH,[19] Ru/CoFe LDH,[20] Ir/NiFe LDH[21] and so on. This strategy possesses many benefits: I) optimizing the electronic structure of active site through the strong electronic coupling between single atom and support; II) enabling more active sites number; III) promoting the stability due to the lower solubility of noble metal atoms in alkaline solution compared to 3d transition metal; IV) competitive cost relative to noble-metal catalysts due to high atomic utilization. To our best knowledge, there have been few reports about using noblemetal single-atom modification strategy to improve the OER performance of NiCo LDH.

Herein, a novel Fe-free NiCo LDH modified with single-atom Ag grown on carbon cloth (AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC) was fabricated. High-angle annular dark field-scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and hard X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) validated that the atomically dispersed Ag atoms were embedded in NiCo LDH, and occupied Ni sites to form AgOM (M = Ni or Co) bond. Inspiringly, the AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC catalyst not only exhibits an exceptional alkaline OER activity with a relatively low overpotential of 192 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and a low Tafel slope of 39 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , but also maintain the excellent catalytic activity up to 500 h even at a large current density of 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , exceeding NiCo LDH/CC (410 mV@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), commercial IrO2 (325 mV@10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ) and most of single-atom OER catalysts reported recently. The in situ Raman spectroscopy uncovers that the in situ formed NiCoOOH during OER is the real active species. The DFT calculation demonstrates that single-atom Ag plays a key role in regulating the electronic density of active Ni sites, giving rise to an obviously reduced thermodynamics energy barrier, fundamentally accounting for the enhanced OER activity. Moreover, the increased NiO bond strength induced by single-atom Ag also enhances the stability of the catalyst.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterization**

NiCo LDH modified with single-atom Ag nanoflake arrays grown on carbon cloth (AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC) was synthesized by a two-step process, and the schematic illustration is displayed in **Figure 1**a. First, NiCo LDH nanoflake arrays were directly grown on CC (NiCo LDH/CC) by hydrothermal method. The results of XRD, SEM, and EDS indicated that NiCo LDH/CC nanoflake arrays were successfully synthesized (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Then, NiCo LDH/CC was used as the working electrode and 2.5 mm AgNO3 solution as the electrolyte, followed by cyclic voltammetry (CV) in a standard three-electrode system to synthesis AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC. The electrolyte after CV was tested by inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) (Table S1, Supporting Information), and the result indicated that slight Ni and Co atoms were dissolved during the cycle process, possibly resulting in the cationic vacancies on the surface of LDH, so Ag may occupy the cationic vacancy sites. Given that the dissolved Ni ions are one order of magnitude bigger than the Co ions, it is logical that Ag prefers to occupy the Ni vacancy sites. Moreover, we also compared the formation energies of Ag atoms that occupy Ni sites (0.36 eV) and Co sites (0.79 eV) on the surface of LDH by using DFT calculation, respectively, as illustrated in Figure S2, Supporting Information. The results also demonstrate that Ag prefers to occupy Ni sites instead of Co sites on the basis of thermodynamics.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of NiCo LDH/CC and AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC are shown in Figure S1a, Supporting Information and Figure 1b. In the XRD pattern (Figure S1a, Supporting Information), the characteristic peaks located at 2*θ* = 11.3°, 22.7°, 33.5°, 34.4°, 38.8°, 46.0°, 60.0°, and 61.3°, agreeing well with the (003), (006), (101), (012), (015), (018), (110) and (113) planes of hexagonal NiCo LDH (PDF No. 38–0715). After incorporating Ag atoms into NiCo LDH/CC, we observe that AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC shows almost the same XRD pattern as NiCo LDH/CC, validating the introduced Ag may exist as atomically dispersed single atom. Figure 1c,d illustrates the scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC, showing a uniform array of hexagonal nanoflakes, with an average length of ≈2 µm and an average thickness of ≈40 nm. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis also reveals that AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC sample displays hexagonal shapes of nanoflakes (Figure 1e and Figure S3, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S4, Supporting Information, the lattice spacing of 0.16 nm in the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image can be assigned to the (110) crystal plane of hexagonal NiCo LDH/CC. Furthermore, the HAADF-STEM image reveals the atomical dispersion of Ag atoms on NiCo LDH. (Figure 1f,g). Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping images illustrate the uniform distribution of Ni, Co, O, and Ag in AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC (Figure 1h–k). In addition, the results of ICP-OES show that the loading amount of Ag single atoms is 0.5 wt% (0.5 AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC). As a contrast, NiCo LDH/CC nanoflakes catalyst loaded with Ag nanoparticles (denoted as AgNP-NiCo LDH/CC) were synthesized by merely increasing the concentration of AgNO3 solution during electrochemical deposition, and the relative characterization of AgNP-NiCo LDH/CC such as XRD, EDS, and SEM are illustrated in Figure S5, Supporting Information.

To further investigate the chemical composition and valence state of NiCo LDH/CC and AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) characterization was carried out. Compared with the pristine NiCo LDH/CC, the XPS survey spectra of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC clearly shows the elemental signal of Ag, which further confirms the presence of Ag in AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC (Figure S6, Supporting Information). For

Figure 1. a) Schematic illustration for the formation of the Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC. b) XRD pattern of the Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC sample. c,d) SEM, e) TEM, f,g) HAADF-STEM images of Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH. EDS elemental mapping of h) Ni, i) Co, j) O, and k) Ag.

the high-resolution Ni 2p spectra of NiCo LDH/CC (Figure 2a), two distinct spin-orbit peaks located at 873.1 and 855.4 eV can be observed, which are ascribed to Ni  $2p_{1/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  of Ni<sup>2+</sup>, and their corresponding satellite peaks locate at 878.9 and 861.1 eV, respectively.<sup>[22]</sup> As shown in Figure 2b, the peak fitting analysis of the Co 2p spectra for NiCo LDH/CC reveals two kinds of cobalt species, where the peaks at 797.8 and 782.2 eV corresponding to Co2+, and the peaks at 796.4 and 780.5 eV are attributable to Co3+.[23] It is worth noting that the binding energy of Ni 2p and Co 2p in AgsA-NiCo LDH/CC shows a positive shift of ≈0.3 eV in contrast to the pure NiCo-LDH/CC, demonstrating the increased valence states of both Ni and Co.<sup>[24]</sup> According to previous studies, the high-valence Ni/Co is not only beneficial for the formation of active phase of metal oxyhydroxides, but also can optimize the electronic structure of oxyhydroxides to facilitate OER kinetics. [25] The high-resolution O 1s XPS spectra (Figure 2c) were deconvoluted into three distinct peaks, which are ascribed to physiosorbed H<sub>2</sub>O molecules, chemisorbed M-OH and M-O species, respectively.<sup>[26]</sup> In addition, the high-resolution Ag 3d spectra of AgsA-NiCo LDH/CC can also be deconvoluted into two peaks (Figure 2d), which locate at 373.4 and 367.4 eV, corresponding to Ag  $3d_{3/2}$  and Ag 3d<sub>5/2</sub>, respectively.<sup>[27]</sup> Compared with Ag<sub>NP</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC (Figure S7, Supporting Information), the peaks of Ag 3d<sub>3/2</sub> and Ag 3d<sub>5/2</sub> in Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC shift to the negative direction (≈0.4 eV), suggesting the formation of Ag<sup>+</sup>. [28] In conclusion,

16136829, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** XPS spectra of a) Ni 2p, b) Co 2p, c) O 1s, and d) Ag 3d of NiCo LDH/CC and AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC.

XPS results verify that the introduction of single-atom Ag can obviously modulate the electronic structure of NiCo LDH/CC, and the generated high-valent nickel and cobalt may be beneficial to improve the OER performance of the catalyst.

In addition, X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) characterization including X-ray absorption near-edge spectra (XANES) and Fourier transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra were used to identify the local electronic and coordinated structure of AgSA-NiCo LDH and NiCo LDH. The Ag K-edge XANES spectra of AgSA-NiCo LDH, Ag2O, and Ag foil are shown in **Figure 3**a. It can be seen that the absorption edge of AgSA-NiCo LDH is slightly lower than that of Ag foil but higher than that of Ag2O, indicating that the valence state of Ag atoms in AgSA-NiCo LDH is between 0 and +1.[29] In the EXAFS spectra (Figure 3b), AgSA-NiCo LDH does not show a peak at 2.63 Å belonging to AgAg bonding as Ag foil, but displays a main peak at 0.81 Å that belongs to AgO bonding like Ag2O,[30] validating the atomic dispersion of Ag atoms in AgSA-NiCo LDH support, which is consistent with the HAADF-STEM result (Figure 1f,g). The fitting result of Ag K-edge EXAFS spectra suggests that the isolated Ag atoms occupy Ni sites in AgSA-NiCo LDH, and the AgO coordination numbers are 5.7, implying a AgO6 moiety for AgSA-NiCo LDH (Figure 3c and Table S2, Supporting Information). Furthermore, wavelet transformed (WT) analysis of Ag K-edge EXAFS oscillation was used to obtain more information about the atomic configuration because of the high *R*-space and *K*-space resolution, as shown in Figure 3d–f. The WT of AgSA-NiCo LDH exhibits a maximum strength at ≈7.5 Å−<sup>1</sup> (Figure 3f), corresponding to AgO scattering (Figure 3e), and no AgAg scattering located at ≈12.4 Å−<sup>1</sup> illustrated in Figure 3d can be observed, which further validates the existence of single-atom Ag.

To investigate the effect of the atomically dispersed Ag atoms on NiCo LDH support, the XAFS analysis of Ni K-edge and Co K-edge are also performed, as illustrated in Figure 3g–i and Figure S8, Supporting Information. In the Ni K-edge XANES spectra (Figure 3g), the absorption edge of Ni in AgSA-NiCo LDH displays a positive shift relative to that in NiCo LDH, implying a higher valence state of Ni,[31] which is consistent with the XPS results (Figure 2a). The EXAFS spectra of AgSA-NiCo LDH exhibit two main peaks located at about 1.53 and 2.75 Å, corresponding to the nearest-neighbor NiO and NiNi/Co coordination (Figure 3h).[32] Notably, the NiO bond length (1.53 Å) of AgSA-NiCo LDH is shorter than that of NiCo LDH (1.63 Å), implying a stronger bond strength after incorporating Ag atoms.[33] The EXAFS fitting result based on the Ni- K-edge EXAFS spectra (Figure 3i and Figure S8, Supporting Information) also validates that the Ni sites are substituted by Ag atoms, which agrees well with the fitting result of Ag K-edge EXAFS spectra (Figure 3c). Furthermore, the calculated coordination number (N) of the second shell of Ni-Ni for AgSA-NiCo LDH (6.5) reduces obviously relative to that of NiCo LDH (7.5), also implying that single-atom Ag replaces the Ni site (Table S2, Supporting Information). The Co K-edge XAFS spectra of AgSA-NiCo LDH are also shown in Figure S9, Supporting Information. It can be observed that the Co K-edge XANES shows a positive shift compared with NiCo LDH, indicating an increased valence state of Co in AgSA-NiCo LDH,[34] which coincides with Co 2p XPS spectra (Figure 2b). However, there is no obvious Co-O peak change between NiCo LDH and AgSA-NiCo LDH. Based on the above discussion, the XAFS analysis reflects that the introduced Ag is in the form of single atom that occupies the Ni sites in NiCo LDH, and the doping of single-atom Ag can increase the oxidation state of both Ni and Co elements, which may enhance its intrinsic activity toward OER.[35]

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [9701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseq

**Figure 3.** a) Normalized Ag K-edge XANES, b) Corresponding FT-EXAFS spectra of Ag foil, NiCo LDH, and Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH. c) Corresponding EXAFS fitting curves at R space of Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH. d–f) Wavelet transforms results of Ag K-edge EXAFS. g) Normalized Ni K-edge XANES, h) corresponding FT-EXAFS spectra of Ni foil, NiCo LDH, and Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH. i) Corresponding EXAFS fitting curves at R space of Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH, inset showing the top-view structure model.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical OER Performance

The OER performance of the obtained samples and IrO2 was evaluated in 1.0 M KOH (the purified electrolyte without iron ions) by a typical three-electrode system. As shown in Figure 4a, 0.5Agsa-NiCo LDH/CC exhibits an excellent OER activity, only requiring an overpotential of 192 mV to deliver a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is significantly superior to pristine NiCo LDH/CC (410 mV), 0.3Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC (387 mV), 0.7Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC (290 mV) (Figure S10, Supporting Information), Ag<sub>NP</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC (352 mV), IrO<sub>2</sub> (325 mV) and the majority of single-atom catalysts recently reported (Table S3, Supporting Information). The corresponding Tafel slopes are shown in Figure 4b, AgsA-NiCo LDH/CC exhibits a smaller Tafel slope (39 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than NiCo LDH/CC (139 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Ag<sub>NP</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC (75 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and IrO<sub>2</sub> (78 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC has faster OER kinetics. Figure 4c quantitatively displays the overpotential at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> as well as the Tafel slopes of NiCo LDH/CC, Ag<sub>NP</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC, Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC, and IrO<sub>2</sub>. Moreover, turnover frequency (TOF) was used to measure the

intrinsic catalytic activity of each active site (Figure S11, Supporting Information), and the results suggested that the TOF of AgsA-NiCo LDH/CC was much higher than that of NiCo LDH/CC and Ag<sub>NP</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC at any potential, implying that Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC has the best intrinsic activity among the samples. The electrochemical double-layer capacitance  $(C_{\rm dl})$  is also measured by cyclic voltammetry (CV) to evaluate electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of catalysts, because the  $C_{\rm dl}$  is positively correlated with the ECSA of the electrode. The calculated C<sub>dl</sub> and relative ECSA are summarized in Table S4, Supporting Information. The C<sub>dl</sub> value of Ag<sub>SA</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC is 31.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4d), which is larger than that of NiCo LDH/CC (11.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Ag<sub>NP</sub>-NiCo LDH/CC (22.3 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), implying that AgsA-NiCo LDH/CC has a larger ECSA. More importantly, the specific activity of AgsA-NiCo LDH/CC toward OER (normalized by ECSA) is obviously better than that of NiCo LDH/CC and  $Ag_{NP}$ -NiCo LDH/CC (Figure 4e), which further suggests that the introduction of Ag single atoms in NiCo LDH/CC can obviously improve its intrinsic activity. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was further employed to evaluate the charge transfer process of the electrode reaction.

16136829, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves, b) Tafel plots, and c) the comparison of overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 and Tafel slopes of NiCo LDH/CC, AgNP-NiCo LDH/CC, AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC, and IrO2. d) *C*dl, e) polarization curves from normalized to ECSA, and f) EIS results of NiCo LDH/CC, AgNP-NiCo LDH/CC AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC.

NiCo LDH/CC and AgNP-NiCo LDH/CC show a large charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) of about 21.5 and 54.8 Ω, while the *R*ct of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC is only about 6.6 Ω (Figure 4f), demonstrating that the introduction of single atoms Ag in NiCo LDH/CC accelerates the charge transfer rate at the solid-liquid interface. Moreover, the contact angle between the electrode and the liquid also plays a key role in mass transfer during OER. Therefore, contact angle measurements were performed. As shown in Figure S12, Supporting Information, the contact angle of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC (30°) is smaller pristine NiCo LDH/CC (60°), indicating that AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC has a higher surface hydrophilicity, which will facilitate the mass transfer during OER.[36]

The stability is also another important factor to evaluate the OER performance of the electrocatalysts besides catalytic activity, especially considering the actual application. The stability of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC was first evaluated by 5000 cycles CV scanning, as shown in **Figure 5**a. The LSV curves of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC after 5000 cycles CV show negligible change compared to the initial curves, implying a good stability. Furthermore, the chronoamperometry test is also performed for investigating the long-term durability of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC. Figure 5b shows that the current density of single-atom catalyst exhibits a decay of only 5.3% at a large current density of ≈100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> after 500 h of long-term OER stability testing, highlighting the outstanding stability of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC during the OER process.

To further identify the actual active species of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC during the OER process, XRD, SEM, HAADF-STEM, TEM, and XPS were carried out for AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC after the OER test. As shown in Figure S13a, Supporting Information, no new peaks appear in the XRD pattern after OER, indicating that no new crystalline phase is formed. The SEM images (Figure S13b–d, Supporting Information) suggest that AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC still maintained the nanosheet arrays morphology and scattered individual Ag atoms are clearly observed in HAADF-STEM images (Figure S14, Supporting Information) after OER. However, the HRTEM image of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC after OER (Figure S15, Supporting Information) showed that an amorphous layer was formed on the surface of the nanosheets, which was markedly different from the sample before OER (Figure S4, Supporting Information). We conclude that the amorphous layer may be NiCo oxyhydroxides (NiCoOOH), according to previous studies.[37] The high-resolution XPS spectra were also utilized to investigate the chemical state of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC after OER. As shown in Figure 5c, For Ni 2p spectra of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC after the OER test, a pair of new peaks appears at 875.8 and 857.8 eV, corresponding to highvalence Ni (Ni3+) in NiCoOOH.[38] In addition, the peaks of Co 2p and Ag 3d spectra (Figure S16, Supporting Information) shift toward high binding energy, also suggesting the superior oxidation. To gain a deep insight into the structural evolution of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC during OER, in situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy technique was performed. As shown in Figure 5d, a series of Raman spectra for AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC were obtained by applying an anodic potential during CV scans [ from 1.20 to 1.55 to 1.35 V (versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE))]. When no potential is applied, the two obvious peaks observed at 463 and 521 cm−<sup>1</sup> are attributed to the NiO vibrations of defective or disordered NiCo LDH nanocrystals.[39] And the peak position did not change when the scanning potential was increased to 1.40 V (versus RHE). However, two new peaks appear at 469 and 527 cm−<sup>1</sup> when the potential reaches 1.45 V, which are assigned to the characteristic peaks of NiCoOOH,[40]

16136829, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC before and after 5000 CV cycles. b) Long-term stability test of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 for 500 h. c) XPS spectra of Ni 2p for AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC after stability test. d) Raman spectra of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC at different potentials (the arrow in the vertical direction is the direction of potential increase).

validating that the surface of AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC has been converted to oxyhydroxide (AgSA-NiCoOOH/CC) during the OER process, which agrees well with the XPS results (Figure 5c and Figure S16, Supporting Information). These two peaks still exist when the potential continues to increase to 1.55 V. Interestingly, while the potential sweep was back to 1.35 V, the two new peaks mentioned above still existed, indicating that the phase transition was irreversible. It is noteworthy that the formation potential of NiCoOOH is directly related to the corresponding OER onset potential, and the lower formation potential generally means the better OER performance.[41] The in situ Raman results show that the formation potential of NiCoOOH is significantly reduced from 1.65 V (Figure S17, Supporting Information) to 1.45 V (Figure 5d) after the introduction of Ag single atoms, implying a better OER performance for AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC. In a word, both XPS and in situ Raman spectroscopy results confirm that the in situ formed NiCoOOH is the really active specie for OER rather than NiCo LDH.

#### **2.3. Theoretical Calculations**

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were further applied to investigate the structure-property relationship between the electronic structure and the OER performance. Based on the above characterization analysis, we adopt NiCoOOH and AgSA-NiCoOOH instead of the pristine NiCo LDH and AgSA-NiCo LDH as the actual catalytic species, and choose the Ni sites on (110) plane as the active sites according to the previous studies,[42] as shown in **Figure 6**a. The Gibbs free energy diagrams of four OER reaction steps for NiCoOOH and AgSA-NiCoOOH are then illustrated in Figure 6b,c. It can be clearly observed that the rate-determining step (RDS) of NiCoOOH is the generation of \*OOH (step 3), with a high overpotential of 1.67 V. However, the RDS of AgSA-NiCoOOH is the formation of \*OH (step 2), and the overpotential decreases to 0.55 eV, implying that AgSA-NiCoOOH exhibits a better intrinsic activity than NiCoOOH, which is consistent with the experimental results.

To analyze the electron transfer, we calculate the Bader charge and differential charge densities (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The Bader charges analysis in Figure 6d reveals that the introduction of Ag atoms in NiCoOOH decreases the Bader charge of Ni atoms from 8.90 to 8.75, giving rise to the increase of Ni valence, which is consistent with the XPS (Figure 2a) and XANES (Figure 3d) results. The result of differential charge densities analysis also supports this conclusion. Additionally, the high-valence Ni in bimetallic Ni-based (oxy) hydroxides is considered to be favorable for facilitating OER kinetics.[43] To further reveal the impact of electronic structure of Ni active sites on the OER activity, the projected density of states (PDOS) of Ni 3d orbit and O 2p orbit in NiCoOOH and AgSA-NiCoOOH after adsorbing O\* intermediate is analyzed (Figure 6e,f). It is shown that the O 2pz and the Ni 3dz2 orbitals form *σ* bonding orbitals away from the Fermi level and *σ*\* antibonding orbitals near the Fermi level in both catalysts.[44] Compared to antibonding orbital (*σ*\*) of NiCoOOH that only appears above the Fermi level, part of the antibonding orbitals (*σ*\*) of AgSA-NiCoOOH appear below the Fermi level, meaning more electrons filling in antibonding orbitals, which results

16136829, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 6.** a) The side-view structure model of NiCoOOH and AgSA-NiCoOOH. Calculated free energy diagrams for the OER at different potentials of b) NiCoOOH and c) AgSA-NiCoOOH. d) Bader charge analysis of Ni site and free energy of oxygen adsorption (∆*G*O\*) for NiCoOOH and AgSA-NiCoOOH, inset showing the top-view structure model. PDOS of e) NiCoOOH and f) AgSA-NiCoOOH.

in the weaker MO\* bond strength in AgSA-NiCoOOH than in NiCoOOH,[45] agreeing well with the analysis of the Gibbs free energy diagrams (Figure 6b,c). The DFT calculation results reveal that Ag single atoms doping can effectively adjust the geometric and electronic structure of catalysts to improve OER activity.

#### **2.4. Stability Mechanism**

To investigate the enhancement mechanism of stability for AgSA-NiCoOOH, the NiO bond length as well as the formation energy of Ni vacancies (*E*vac) are also calculated by DFT, as shown in Figure S19a, Supporting Information. It can be observed that the NiO bond length in AgSA-NiCoOOH is shorter than that in NiCoOOH, indicating a stronger NiO bond strength, which may be conducive to the stable existence of Ni elements in AgSA-NiCoOOH lattice.[46] Furthermore, the calculated *E*vac of AgSA-NiCoOOH is 4.95 eV (Figure S19b, Supporting Information), which is much higher than that of NiCoOOH (2.37 eV), also suggesting that the introduction of single-atom Ag into NiCoOOH will inhibit the NiO bond breaking and the dissolution of Ni elements in the electrolyte, thereby strengthening the structure stability of NiCoOOH.[47] To further validate the theoretical calculation results, the concentration of metallic ions in the electrolyte after long-term OER stability test was measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES), as shown in Table S5, Supporting Information. It can be clearly seen that the concentration of Ni ions in the electrolyte after stability test for AgSA-NiCoOOH (0.0100 mg L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) is lower by an order of magnitude relative to that for NiCoOOH (0.5091 mg L−<sup>1</sup> ), which is consistent with the theoretical prediction results aforementioned. In a word, both the theoretical calculation and experimental results validate the increased NiO bond strength induced by single-atom Ag enhance the long-term durability of the catalyst.

### **3. Conclusions**

In conclusion, we have successfully fabricated Fe-free NiCo LDH/CC catalyst modified with Ag single atoms by hydrothermal and electrochemical CV methods. The single-atom catalyst exhibit distinguished catalytic activity and stability toward alkaline OER, greatly exceeding NiCo LDH/CC and commercial IrO2. HAADF-STEM and XAFS reveal that the atomically dispersed Ag atoms occupy the superficial Ni sites in NiCo LDH. DFT calculation result validates that the introduction of catalytic inert Ag single atoms not only optimizes the adsorption energy of OER intermediates on Ni active sites, thereby boosting the intrinsic OER activities, but also increases NiO bond energy and strengthens the structure stability of the catalyst, which enhance the long-term durability. This work sheds light on designing highly active and durable single-atom catalysts toward OER and beyond in the future.

### **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: All experiments used deionized water (DIW) purified by the Millipore system. Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, Co(NO3)2·6H2O, NH4F, urea, AgNO3 and ethyl alcohol were purchased from Aladdin. Nafion and Commercial IrO2 were acquired from Sigma Aldrich. Carbon cloth (CC) was obtained from Wuhan Instrument Surgical Instruments business, and the CC substrate was pretreated with DIW, H2SO4 solution, and ethanol.

**www.small-journal.com**

*Synthesis of NiCo LDH/CC*: NiCo LDH nanoflake arrays were synthesized on carbon cloth (CC) by a hydrothermal method. First, 2 mmol Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, 0.25 mmol Co(NO3)2·6H2O, 4 mmol NH4F and 10 mmol urea were dissolved in 35 mL DIW. Then the fully dissolved solution was transferred to a 45 mL autoclave with two pieces of pretreated CC (1 × 3 cm<sup>2</sup> ) and the sealed autoclave was kept in an oven at 120 °C for 6 h. After naturally cooling to room temperature, NiCo LDH/CC was washed with DIW and ethanol for several times and dried in a vacuum oven at 60 °C for 12 h.

*Synthesis of Ag*SA*-NiCo LDH/CC and Ag*NP*-NiCo LDH/CC*: AgSA-NiCo LDH/CC was fabricated by a simple cyclic voltammetry (CV) treatment. A piece of NiCo LDH/CC (1 × 1 cm2 ) was used as the working electrode and the electrolyte solution consisted of 2.5 mm AgNO3. Single atoms Ag were deposited in NiCo LDH/CC by stepping the potential from −0.75 to −0.35 V for 10 s for five cycles. AgNP-NiCo LDH/CC was obtained by the same CV treatment; the difference was that the amount of AgNO3 was 15 mm.

*Materials Characterization*: XRD patterns were obtained using X'Pert PRO MPD with a Cu K*α* radiation source (*λ* = 1.5406 Å). SEM was performed on Hitachi Regulus8100 at 15 kV. TEM, HRTEM, and HAADF-STEM were carried out on Titan Cubed Themi**s** G2300 operating at 300 kV. XPS spectra were obtained on Thermo ESCALAB 250XI with Al Ka anode (1486.6 eV). X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were acquired at Beamline 7bm, National Synchrotron Light Source, Brookhaven National Laboratory through a Si(111) monochromator and Lytle detector. Raman spectra were recorded on LabRAM HR Evolution at a laser with a wavelength of 532 nm.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: Electrochemical tests were performed on a CHI 760E potentiostat via a standard three-electrode system, which consists of a working electrode (synthesized samples), reference electrode (Hg/HgO), and counter electrode (graphite rod). All potentials were converted to RHE: E (V versus RHE) = E (V versus Hg/HgO) + 0.098 V + 0.059 × pH. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) tests for OER with 90% iR compensation were performed along a potential window of ≈0–0.8 V at a scan rate of 2 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . Double layer capacitance (*C*dl) was obtained using cyclic voltammetry (CV) at scan rates from 5 to 150 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . EIS experiments were carried out at frequencies from 100 kHz to 0.1 Hz with an AC voltage of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . The 5000 CV cycles stability test was researched at a scan rate of 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> .

*Computational Methods*: DFT calculations were performed in the Vienna Ab-initio Simulation Package (VASP) using the Perdew–Burke– Ernzerhof and projected enhanced wave methods.[48] The K-point grid for the Brillouin zone was set to a 3 × 3 × 1 and the energy cutoff for the plane-wave basis set was 450 eV. To simulate the catalytic process on the surface, a model with a vacuum layer thickness of 15 Å was constructed and the convergence criterion for energy was 10<sup>−</sup>5 eV between two electron steps.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Nature Science Foundation of Hebei Province (E2022202035, E2022202042) and the Graduate Innovation Funding Project of Hebei Province (CXZZBS2022031). In addition, R.Z. and H.L.X. were funded by the HLX start-up fund provided by the University of California Irvine. This research used the 7-BM beamline of the National Synchrotron Radiation Light Source II, which is operated by Brookhaven National Laboratory for the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

## **Keywords**

density functional theory calculations, NiCo layered double hydroxide, oxygen evolution reaction, silver, single-atom

> Received: February 23, 2023 Revised: March 19, 2023 Published online: April 24, 2023

16136829, 2023, 34, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202301610 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] a) A. Ali, F. Long, P. K. Shen, *Electrochem. Energy Rev.* **2022**, *5*, 1; b) Z. Li, J. Y. Fu, Y. Feng, C. K. Dong, H. Liu, X. W. Du, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 1107.
- [2] a) Y. Yao, S. Hu, W. Chen, Z. Q. Huang, W. Wei, T. Yao, R. Liu, K. Zang, X. Wang, G. Wu, W. Yuan, T. Yuan, B. Zhu, W. Liu, Z. Li, D. He, Z. Xue, Y. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Dong, C. R. Chang, Y. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, S. Wei, W. X. Li, P. Strasser, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 304; b) O. Diaz-Morales, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 193.
- [3] a) C. Liu, J. Qian, Y. Ye, H. Zhou, C. J. Sun, C. Sheehan, Z. Zhang, G. Wan, Y. S. Liu, J. Guo, S. Li, H. Shin, S. Hwang, T. B. Gunnoe, W. A. Goddard, S. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 36; b) I. T. McCrum, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 891.
- [4] a) S. Li, C. Xi, Y. Z. Jin, D. Wu, J. Q. Wang, T. Liu, H. B. Wang, C. K. Dong, H. Liu, S. A. Kulinich, X. W. Du, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1823; b) S. Dresp, T. Ngo Thanh, M. Klingenhof, S. Brueckner, P. Hauke, P. Strasser, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 1725; c) C. X. Zhao, B. Q. Li, M. Zhao, J. N. Liu, L. D. Zhao, X. Chen, Q. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 1711.
- [5] a) J. Li, F. Yang, M. Jiang, X. Cai, Q. Hu, J. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *451*, 138646; b) J. X. Flores-Lasluisa, F. Huerta, D. Cazorla-Amoros, E. Morallon, *Environ. Res.* **2022**, *214*, 113731.
- [6] a) J. Ge, W. Zhang, J. Tu, T. Xia, S. Chen, G. Xie, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2001856; b) J. O. Olowoyo, R. J. Kriek, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2203125.
- [7] a) X. Zheng, Y. Zhang, H. Liu, D. Fu, J. Chen, J. Wang, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, X. Han, W. Hu, *Small* **2018**, *14*, 1803666; b) Y. Wang, X. Li, M. Zhang, J. Zhang, Z. Chen, X. Zheng, Z. Tian, N. Zhao, X. Han, K. Zaghib, Y. Wang, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107053.
- [8] a) Z. Xue, X. Li, Q. Liu, M. Cai, K. Liu, M. Liu, Z. Ke, X. Liu, G. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900430; b) Y. Sun, J. Wu, Z. Zhang, Q. Liao, S. Zhang, X. Wang, Y. Xie, K. Ma, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 633.
- [9] a) Z. Wang, S. Wang, L. Ma, Y. Guo, J. Sun, N. Zhang, R. Jiang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2006770; b) Y. Wu, H. Wang, S. Ji, B. G. Pollet, X. Wang, R. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2020**, *13*, 2098.
- [10] a) L. Peng, N. Yang, Y. Yang, Q. Wang, X. Xie, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 24612; b) X. Shen, H. Li, Y. Zhang, T. Ma, Q. Li, Q. Jiao, Y. Zhao, H. Li, C. Feng, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *319*, 121917.
- [11] F. Dionigi, Z. Zeng, I. Sinev, T. Merzdorf, S. Deshpande, M. B. Lopez, S. Kunze, I. Zegkinoglou, H. Sarodnik, D. Fan, A. Bergmann, J. Drnec, J. F. de Araujo, M. Gliech, D. Teschner, J. Zhu, W. X. Li, J. Greeley, B. Roldan Cuenya, P. Strasser, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2522.

**www.small-journal.com**

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

- [12] D. Y. Chung, P. P. Lopes, P. F. B. D. Martins, H. He, T. Kawaguchi, P. Zapol, H. You, D. Tripkovic, D. Strmcnik, Y. Zhu, S. Seifert, S. Lee, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 222.
- [13] Z. W. Gao, J. Y. Liu, X. M. Chen, X. L. Zheng, J. Mao, H. Liu, T. Ma, L. Li, W. C. Wang, X. W. Du, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1804769.
- [14] J. Abed, S. Ahmadi, L. Laverdure, A. Abdellah, C. P. O'Brien, K. Cole, P. Sobrinho, D. Sinton, D. Higgins, N. J. Mosey, S. J. Thorpe, E. H. Sargent, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103812.
- [15] X. Han, Y. Niu, C. Yu, Z. Liu, H. Huang, H. Huang, S. Li, W. Guo, X. Tan, J. Qiu, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *69*, 104367.
- [16] B. Chen, Z. Zhang, S. Kim, M. Baek, D. Kim, K. Yong, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *259*, 118017.
- [17] R. Fan, Q. Mu, Z. We, Y. Peng, M. Shen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 9871.
- [18] W. He, D. Cao, D. Ma, Y. Li, C. Chen, L. Liang, H. Liu, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 7757.
- [19] J. Zhang, J. Liu, L. Xi, Y. Yu, N. Chen, S. Sun, W. Wang, K. M. Lange, B. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 3876.
- [20] P. Li, M. Wang, X. Duan, L. Zheng, X. Cheng, Y. Zhang, Y. Kuang, Y. Li, Q. Ma, Z. Feng, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1711.
- [21] X. Zheng, J. Tang, A. Gallo, J. A. G. Torres, X. Yu, C. J. Athanitis, E. M. Been, P. Ercius, H. Mao, S. C. Fakra, C. Song, R. C. Davis, J. A. Reimer, J. Vinson, M. Bajdich, Y. Cui, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2021**, *118*, e2101817118.
- [22] H. Yang, Z. Chen, P. Guo, B. Fei, R. Wu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *261*, 118240.
- [23] W. Chen, Y. Zhang, R. Huang, Y. Zhou, Y. Wu, Y. Hu, K. Ostrikov, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 4950.
- [24] J. Chang, G. Wang, Z. Yang, B. Li, Q. Wang, R. Kuliiev, N. Orlovskaya, M. Gu, Y. Du, G. Wang, Y. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101425.
- [25] J. Yin, J. Jin, M. Lu, B. Huang, H. Zhang, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C. H. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 18378.
- [26] S. W. Jang, S. Dutta, A. Kumar, Y. R. Hong, H. Kang, S. Lee, S. Ryu, W. Choi, I. S. Lee, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 10578.
- [27] S. A. Chala, M. C. Tsai, W. N. Su, K. B. Ibrahim, B. Thirumalraj, T. S. Chan, J. F. Lee, H. Dai, B. J. Hwang, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 1770.
- [28] C. Cai, M. Wang, S. Han, Q. Wang, Q. Zhang, Y. Zhu, X. Yang, D. Wu, X. Zu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, M. Gu, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 123.
- [29] C. Lee, K. Shin, C. Jung, P.-P. Choi, G. Henkelman, H. M. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 562.
- [30] F. F. Zhang, C. Q. Cheng, J. Q. Wang, L. Shang, Y. Feng, Y. Zhang, J. Mao, Q. J. Guo, Y. M. Xie, C. K. Dong, Y. H. Cheng, H. Liu, X. W. Du, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2021**, *6*, 1588.

- [31] L. Han, H. Cheng, W. Liu, H. Li, P. Ou, R. Lin, H. T. Wang, C. W. Pao, A. R. Head, C. H. Wang, X. Tong, C. J. Sun, W. F. Pong, J. Luo, J. C. Zheng, H. L. Xin, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *21*, 681.
- [32] Q. Wang, X. Huang, Z. L. Zhao, M. Wang, B. Xiang, J. Li, Z. Feng, H. Xu, M. Gu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 7425.
- [33] Y. Wang, S. Tao, H. Lin, G. Wang, K. Zhao, R. Cai, K. Tao, C. Zhang, M. Sun, J. Hu, B. Huang, S. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *81*, 105606.
- [34] K. Shah, R. Dai, M. Mateen, Z. Hassan, Z. Zhuang, C. Liu, M. Israr, W. C. Cheong, B. Hu, R. Tu, C. Zhang, X. Chen, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202114951.
- [35] M. Han, N. Wang, B. Zhang, Y. Xia, J. Li, J. Han, K. Yao, C. Gao, C. He, Y. Liu, Z. Wang, A. Seifitokaldani, X. Sun, H. Liang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 9725.
- [36] P. Chen, T. Zhou, S. Wang, N. Zhang, Y. Tong, H. Ju, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 15471.
- [37] H. Liang, F. Meng, M. Caban-Acevedo, L. Li, A. Forticaux, L. Xiu, Z. Wang, S. Jin, *Nano Lett.* **2015**, *15*, 1421.
- [38] Q. Niu, M. Yang, D. Luan, N. W. Li, L. Yu, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202213049.
- [39] F. Zhang, Y. Liu, L. Wu, M. Ning, S. Song, X. Xiao, V. G. Hadjiev, D. E. Fan, D. Wang, L. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2022**, *27*, 100841.
- [40] Z. Zhang, C. Feng, D. Wang, S. Zhou, R. Wang, S. Hu, H. Li, M. Zuo, Y. Kong, J. Bao, J. Zeng, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2473.
- [41] Y. Sun, J. Wu, Y. Xie, X. Wang, K. Ma, Z. Tian, Z. Zhang, Q. Liao, W. Zheng, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2207116.
- [42] C. Liu, Y. Han, L. Yao, L. Liang, J. He, Q. Hao, J. Zhang, Y. Li, H. Liu, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2007334.
- [43] Z. Li, X. Zhang, Y. Kang, C. C. Yu, Y. Wen, M. Hu, D. Meng, W. Song, Y. Yang, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2002631.
- [44] H. Shang, X. Zhou, J. Dong, A. Li, X. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Lin, J. Pei, Z. Li, Z. Jiang, D. Zhou, L. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, Z. Yang, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, T. Sun, X. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, J. Li, W. Chen, D. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 3049.
- [45] Z. He, J. Zhang, Z. Gong, H. Lei, D. Zhou, N. Zhang, W. Mai, S. Zhao, Y. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2191.
- [46] W. He, L. Han, Q. Hao, X. Zheng, Y. Li, J. Zhang, C. Liu, H. Liu, H. L. Xin, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 2905.
- [47] F. Dionigi, J. Zhu, Z. Zeng, T. Merzdorf, H. Sarodnik, M. Gliech, L. Pan, W.-X. Li, J. Greeley, P. Strasser, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 14446.
- [48] J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, X. Guo, C. Chen, C. L. Dong, R.-S. Liu, C. P. Han, Y. Li, Y. Gogotsi, G. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 985.