---
source: Hu 等 - 2023 - Active Site Tailoring of Metal‐Organic Frameworks for Highly Efficient Oxygen Evolution.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 25.720s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:48:58.582204Z
---

**Editor's Choice www.advenergymat.de**

# **Active Site Tailoring of Metal-Organic Frameworks for Highly Efficient Oxygen Evolution**

*Feng Hu, Deshuang Yu, Wen-Jing Zeng, Zih-Yi Lin, Silin Han, Yajie Sun, Hui Wang, Jianwei Ren, Sung-Fu Hung,\* Linlin Li,\* and Shengjie Peng\**

**The direct correlation between active sites and catalytic activity in multiple-component metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) is key to understanding their mechanism of oxygen evolution reaction (OER) but remains vague. Herein, supported multiple-site MOFs are adopted as model catalysts to quantitatively study the composition-dependent OER performance. Ni MOFs on Fe metal substrate possess the highest intrinsic OER activity with the Ni/Fe ratio of 1:2 in the presence of metal leaching of the substrate during synthesis. Further introducing a proper amount of Cu further boosts the OER performance of Cu-doped NiFe MOFs with an impressively low overpotential of 200 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Spectroscopic analysis with theoretical study indicates that the copper doping within the NiFe MOFs induces electron redistribution for high valence Fe sites with an optimized balance of OH/OOH adsorption and decreased energy barrier for improved OER. This work sheds light on the active site tailoring of MOFs which highly correlates with the OER activity.**

# **1. Introduction**

Electrocatalysis powered by renewable electricity to produce value-added chemicals from water and CO2 provides a sustainable route for the carbon-central nature and economy.[1] Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) plays a crucial role as one inevitable anodic reaction in these technologies of both water splitting and CO2 reduction.[2] The reaction kinetics is yet severely retarded due to the multiple proton-coupled electron transfer steps with high energy barrier and large overpotential. Currently,

F. Hu, D. Yu, S. Han, Y. Sun, H. Wang, L. Li, S. Peng College of Materials Science and Technology Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Nanjing 210016, China E-mail: lilinlin@nuaa.edu.cn; pengshengjie@nuaa.edu.cn W.-J. Zeng, Z.-Y. Lin, S.-F. Hung Department of Applied Chemistry National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University Hsinchu 300, Taiwan E-mail: sungfuhung@nycu.edu.tw J. Ren Department of Mechanical Engineering Science University of Johannesburg Johannesburg 2092, South Africa

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202301224

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202301224**

state-of-the-art catalysts are usually consisting of noble metal (e.g., Ru and Ir) oxides, but their wide application is prevented by high price, scarcity, and unsatisfactory durability.[3] The development and design of alternative catalysts containing first-row transition metals have attracted great efforts involving the strategies of morphology modulation, surface modification, and strain engineering with multi-metallic components.[4] However, the indistinct coordination and chemistry of active centers in these heterogenous catalysts often lead to unsatisfied reproducibility and impede the study of the underlying catalysis mechanism.

Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have emerged as a kind of effective OER catalysts due to their inherent high specific surface area, notable structure complexity, and adjustable property with

versatile coordination chemistry of metal cations.[5] Importantly, MOFs directly used as electrocatalysts without pyrolysis treatment could therefore efficiently bridge the homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis and facilitate the mechanistic investigation.[6] Nevertheless, most MOFs have poor electric conductivity, insufficient intrinsic activity as well as limited mass transport due to the micropore structure.[7] Recently, enhanced OER performance of MOFs has been achieved using strategies by constructing multiple components,[8] introducing lattice strain or surface defects,[9] and fabricating ultrathin morphology.[10] Active site tailoring of heterogenous catalysts with multiple metal centers has been recognized as one of the most efficient ways to improve catalytic performance by optimizing the binding energy of absorbed oxygen intermediates.[11] For example, the addition of Cu into transition metal oxide catalysts can promote the electron redistribution of catalytically active metals (e.g., Ni, Fe, and Co) and modulate the formation of their high oxidation states.[11c,12] Nevertheless, further efforts are needed to understand the effects of active site tailoring and the introduction of Cu into MOFs on their OER performance. Moreover, in situ growth of these MOF structures onto conducting metal substrates has been adopted to develop more efficient binder-free MOF-based OER catalysts, which not only facilitate electron and mass transport for high OER activity but also simplify the manufacturing process for easy industrial deployment.[13] In this case, however, the leaching of metal ions from the metal substrate during the in situ synthesis has to be inspected, which inevitably affects the

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advenergymat.de**

evaluation of the real active species and mechanism study.[14] Although it has been considered and intentionally applied to the synthesis of metal-supported catalytic materials, the understanding of such a leaching process and its generality for the fabrication of binary or ternary MOFs has rarely been explored.[15] Meanwhile, the effect of the leaching process on the composition and the composition-dependent OER activity is worth to be quantitatively studied in the MOF structures.

To explore the in situ synthesis for multi-component MOFs under the leaching process and correlate the MOF composition and OER intrinsic activity, we choose the Ni-based MOFs with the ligand of benzene dicarboxylic acid as the model catalysts and first perform the quantitative research of OER catalysis on the leaching-assisted binary MOFs on metal substrates. We achieve the systematical optimization of OER activity associated with the structure-performance correlation, in which NiFe MOFs with a Ni/Fe ratio of 1:2 possess a high OER activity experimentally and theoretically. By further introducing Cu into the NiFe MOF structures, the resulting ternary MOFs exhibit an outstanding OER activity, with an impressive overpotential of 200 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. In situ synchrotron X-ray absorption spectroscopy associated with density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the copper doping within the NiFe MOFs induces electron redistribution for high Fe oxidation states with an optimized balance of OH/OOH adsorption and decreased energy barrier forimproved OER. The findings in this work enlighten the function of rational active site tailoring of MOFs and its correlation with the high activity and underlying mechanism for high-current water splitting.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. DFT Investigations of the Effect of the Ni/Fe Ratio**

To uncover the effect of the Ni/Fe ratio on the electron structure of NiFe MOFs as well as the electrocatalysis activity origin, we first conducted the DFT calculations using the NiFe-BDC models with the Ni/Fe ratios of 2:1, 1:1, and 1:2, denoted as Ni0.67Fe0.33- BDC, Ni0.50Fe0.50-BDC, and Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, as well as the pure Ni MOFs (Figure S1, Supporting Information). These structures have similar profiles of the density of states (DOS) of Ni 3d and Fe 3d, while increased Fe content leads to higher metal 3d energy levels (**Figure 1**a,b, and Figure S2, Supporting Information). In contrast, the O 2p energy level undergoes a downshift with the increase of Fe content in the NiFe-BDC (Figure 1c and Figure S3, Supporting Information). The results prove that the Fe-O-Ni bonding in NiFe-BDC can well modulate the electronic configuration of the Ni site by Fe doping with the upshift of metal 3d center relative to Fermi level (Figure 1d), which has been recognized as a key factor for adsorption and desorption of reaction intermediates during OER. Following the four concerted proton-electron transfer mechanisms, the oxygen evolution process in an alkaline solution was displayed by the local structural configurations with intermediates adsorbed (Figure 1e and Figures S4–S7, Supporting Information). The OH<sup>−</sup> anion is firstly adsorbed on the metal active site to form M−OH\*. A deprotonation process takes place with the formation of M−O\*, which then reacts with OH<sup>−</sup> anion to form the M−OOH\* intermediate. Subsequently, O2 is produced through the deprotonation of the M−OOH\* intermediate, and the M\* active site is regenerated for the next OER cycle. Each step generates a proton-electron pair. The free energy profiles of OER steps with intermediates (i.e., OH\*, O\*, and OOH\*) adsorbed on Ni and Fe sites of these structures were presented in Figure 1f,g. At *U* = 0, the potential-determining step (PDS) for Ni-BDC on the Ni site is the electrochemical step of \*OOH formation with an energy barrier of 2.033 eV, while the PDS can be reduced to 1.788 and 1.670 eV on the Ni sites of Ni0.50Fe0.50- BDC and Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, respectively (Table S1, Supporting Information). For the OER process on the Fe sites of NiFe binary MOFs, the PDS of Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC has a small energy barrier of 1.539 eV, indicating that the Fe sites theoretically have high activity and increased Fe content favors the electron structure of Fe sites with the easier formation of \*OOH. At *U* = 1.23 V, Fe and Ni sites with regulated electronic structures have energy barriers of 0.309 and 0.440 eV for Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The plot of the energy barrier of the OER process against the Fe content in NiFe binary MOFs in Figure 1h shows that the energy barrier gradually decreases with the increased Fe content. The theoretical modeling demonstrates that the Ni/Fe ratio in the NiFe binary MOFs plays a crucial role in the OER activity.

#### **2.2. Quantitative OER Evaluation of Site-Tailored NiFe MOFs in the Presence of Metal Leaching**

A wide of supported materials have been fabricated on conducting metal substrates for high-performance electrocatalysis with increased electrocatalytic activity and reaction kinetics, which were generally attributed to the advantages of conducting supporting materials, hierarchical nanostructures with greatly exposed surface sites, as well as fast mass transport channels. Meanwhile, the element leaching from the metal substrate may provide a dissolution-crystallization process during the synthesis of formed nanostructures with additional element percolation, which thereafter may also play a significant role in the intrinsic activity of the in situ grown catalysts including MOFs (**Figure 2**a).[13a] Although a few works have used substrates as metal sources to prepare active materials, metal leaching widely exists in the in situ synthesis process which may be ignored. For example, a wide survey in Figure 2b shows that compared with catalysts grown on non-metal substrates, those grown on metal substrates usually have low overpotentials and Tafel slopes for water oxidation, which indicate superior electrocatalytic performance (See Figure S9, Supporting Information for detailed information). We take the Ni-based MOFs as the model catalysts for OER; a preliminary experiment by fabricating the Ni-BDC nanosheets on various metal substrates including Fe, Ni, Co, and Cu foams through the hydrothermal reaction has been conducted to show the leaching process of metal substrates. The Ni-BDCs grown on Fe, Ni, Co, and Cu foams are denoted as Ni-BDC/Fe, Ni-BDC/Ni, Ni-BDC/Co, and Ni-BDC/Cu, respectively. The color change of metal foams with enhanced surface roughness indicates the growth of MOF nanostructures (Figure S10, Supporting Information). The metal leaching behavior can be clearly observed by the residual reaction solutions with different colors corresponding to the used metal foams (Figure S11, Supporting Information). As shown in the SEM

**Figure 1.** DFT modeling of NiFe binary MOFs with tunable Ni/Fe ratios for OER. a) The density of states of Ni 3d of Ni0.67Fe0.33-BDC, Ni0.50Fe0.50-BDC, and Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC. b) The plots of d-center energy levels of Ni and Fe against the Fe content of NiFe binary MOFs. c) The plot of O 2p-center energy level against the Fe content of NiFe binary MOFs. Insets are the schemes of the energy level difference of metal 3d and O 2p of Ni MOFs and NiFe binary MOFs. d) Scheme of the Fermi level tuning before and after the introduction of Fe in Ni MOFs. e) Modeling of the elementary electrochemical steps for OER on the Fe site of Ni0.50Fe0.50-BDC. f) Gibbs free energy diagrams of the OER process on the Ni sites of Ni MOF and NiFe binary MOFs with tunable Ni/Fe ratios. g) Gibbs free energy diagrams of the OER process on the Fe sites of NiFe binary MOFs with tunable Ni/Fe ratios. h) The plots of energy barriers on Ni and Fe sites of NiFe binary MOFs.

images of these materials, Ni-Based MOFs on various metal substrates have a similar assembled nanosheet structure (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The metallic leaching behaviors existing in the in situ growth processes of various metal substrates have great effects on their OER performance, as shown in the cyclic voltammetry (CV) and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (Figure 2c and Figure S13, Supporting Information). The materials undergo distinct oxidation processes at different potentials. Upon the addition of Fe, the redox electrons (e<sup>−</sup> per Ni atom) of the Ni(OH)2/NiOOH redox transition are substantially decreased, associated with the positive shift of the anodic peak, which is disappeared in the curve corresponding to Ni-BDC/Fe.[16] Therefore, Ni-BDC/Fe shows high current density throughout the potential window starting from 1.45 V versus RHE compared with the other three electrodes, much better than the reference electrode of dip-coated RuO2 on Ni foam. To achieve a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the Ni-BDC/Fe electrode only requires an overpotential of 0.279 V, which is 57, 87, and 84 mV less than that of Ni-BDC/Ni, Ni-BDC/Co, and Ni-BDC/Cu, respectively. The Tafel analysis in Figure 2d also indicates the superior kinetics of Ni-BDC/Fe with a Tafel slope of 52.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, lower than Ni-BDC/Ni (91.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ni-BDC/Co

**Figure 2.** The quantitative study of NiFe binary MOFs with tunable Ni/Fe ratios by in situ growth for OER. a) Scheme illustrating the in situ synthesis process of the binary MOFs on a metal substrate. b) OER performance survey of self-supported catalysts by in situ growth (red dots) and powder catalysts loaded on metal substrates by drop-casting (blue dots). c) LSV curves of MOFs on various foams. d) Tafel plots. e) ICP results of in situ formed MOF on Fe, Ni, Co, and Cu foams. f) LSV curves of binary MOFs on Fe foams by tuning the amount of Ni precursor with the formation of Ni0.71Fe0.29-BDC, Ni0.46Fe0.54-BDC, Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, Ni0.26Fe0.74-BDC, and Ni0.08Fe0.92-BDC. g) The plot of potential to achieve the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> against the Ni/Fe molar ratio. h) The plot of surface-specific currents against the Ni/Fe molar ratio.

(66.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and Ni-BDC/Cu (82.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1). The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) shows that Ni-BDC/Fe has the lowest electrochemical impedance and the fastest charge transfer rate (Figure S14, Supporting Information). We assume that the key factor for the activity difference is the composition variation due to the metal leaching of different metal substrates during synthesis. Therefore, the element components of the series of MOF structures were then analyzed by the inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) (Figure 2e and Table S2, Supporting Information). The Fe percent of metal elements is around 62%, while the Ni percent is around 38%, indicating the remarkable Fe leaching from Fe foam into the MOF in Ni-BDC/Fe. On the other hand, the ICP-OES results of Ni-BDC/Co and Ni-BDC/Cu also show a similar metal leaching phenomenon. Although the in situ growth of catalysts on metal foams usually leads to enhanced performance, the existence of metal leaching in various metals may lead to a misunderstanding of the real active sites of electrocatalysts. Another evidence for metal leaching is that MOF structures on metal substrates (e.g., Ni, Fe, NiFe alloyed substrates) directly obtained in a hydrothermal solution containing BDC molecules without metal precursors lead to large differences in OER performance (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information). Therefore, a quantitative study on the composition of synthesized materials under metal leaching and its correlation with OER activity is urgent.

Given the remarkable enhancement of the OER activity of Ni-BDC/Fe, we further quantitatively study the degree of metal leaching under different experimental conditions and their effect on the OER activity. DFT results have demonstrated the Ni/Fe ratio is one key factor of the OER activity, in which Ni0.33Fe0.67- BDC has the highest intrinsic activity theoretically with the lowest energy barrier. We conducted the synthesis of a series of

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advenergymat.de**

Ni-based MOFs on Fe foam with different amounts of NiCl2, in which therefore the changes of Cl<sup>−</sup> anion concentrations could affect the degree of metal leaching and in turn change the Ni/Fe ratios.[15a] As expected, the metal leaching process significantly changed the Ni/Fe ratio of the in situ formed MOFs as measured by ICP-OES (Table S3, Supporting Information); adding more NiCl2 6H2O from 12 to 600 mg brings an increase of Ni/Fe ratio from 0.1 to 2.5, corresponding to Ni0.06Fe0.92-BDC, Ni0.26Fe0.74- BDC, Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, Ni0.46Fe0.54-BDC, and Ni0.71Fe0.29-BDC. We then evaluated their OER performance. The typical LSV curves show that increasing the amount of NiCl2 could gradually increase the water oxidation activity, with enhanced current density and decreased overpotential throughout the potential window from 1.20 to 1.65 V (Figure 2f). Specifically, Ni0.71Fe0.29- BDC has a current density of 79.5 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at the potential of 1.48 V, which is around 19.8 times higher than Ni0.06Fe0.92-BDC. It was noted that the Fe substrates were freshly cleaned and directly used for the synthesis of supported NiFe-BDCs preventing the oxidation of Fe, which would have better OER performance due to the uniform growth of nanosheet structures with less contamination (Figures S17 and S18, Supporting Information). The plot of overpotentials of different electrodes against the Ni/Fe molar ratio further demonstrates the enhanced performance with the increased addition of NiCl2 (Figure 2g and Figure S19, Supporting Information). The addition of NiCl2 has two functions. On one hand, more Ni source leads to improved growth of Ni-based BDC nanosheets grown on Fe foam, which follows the growth process from the formation of MOF seeds, growth to be nanowires, and final assembly of nanosheet array (Figure S20, Supporting Information), varying the number of the surface sites. On the other hand, the introduction of Ni could tune the Ni/Fe ratio by the dissolution-crystallization process with different amounts of Fe elements in the presence of various Cl<sup>−</sup> anion concentrations. Therefore, the overall performance could be attributed to either more exposed active sites with material growth or optimized intrinsic activity related to the Ni/Fe ratio. Indeed, the Ni/Fe ratio plays a more important role in OER performance, since just tuning the growth of NiFe-BDCs formed with different reaction periods cannot significantly tune the OER performance (Figure S21, Supporting Information). To quantitatively understand the intrinsic activity of active sites, we studied the electrochemically active surface area of these electrodes with different Ni/Fe ratios by measuring the electrochemical capacity by CVs (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The increased specific capacity indicates that more Ni sources would significantly enhance electrochemical surface area (ECSA) meaning more exposed surface active sites. Therefore, the intrinsic activity of the surface active sites could be evaluated by normalizing the current by the ECSA values with a consequence of the plot in Figure 2h. Obviously, the normalized current (*j* ECSA) highly depends on the Ni/Fe molar ratio. Increasing the Ni/Fe ratio from 0.1 to 0.5 results in the *j* ECSA from 0.02 to 0.28 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a 14-times increase, while further increasing the Ni/Fe ratio to 2.5 decreases the *j* ECSA, consistent with the previous report.[17] Therefore, when the Ni/Fe ratio is around 0.5, the intrinsic activity is highest, consistent with the DFT results. The Ni/Fe ratio of NiFe-BDCs on Fe foam could also be tuned by simultaneously using NiCl2 and FeCl3 as the precursors with different ratios. The obtained supported NiFe MOFs also show the Ni/Fe ratio-dependent OER activity (Table S4 and Figure S23, Supporting Information). Interestingly, the current densities normalized by the ECSA follow the tendency of the Ni/Fe ratio-dependent activity, indicating that the Ni/Fe ratio determines the intrinsic activity no matter the source of Fe (Figures S24 and S25, Supporting Information). This experiment clearly proves the effect of the Ni/Fe ratio on the intrinsic activity of NiFe-BDCs, the origin of which is worth to be further studied.

#### **2.3. Catalyst Characterizations**

During the synthesis of metal-supported MOFs involving a dissolution-recrystallization process, the metal ions typically dissolve from the metal substrate and are conjugated with BDC molecules in the solution, followed by the recrystallization of MOF structures in situ on the metal substrate. The material characterizations including morphology and phase structures were conducted. As shown in **Figure 3**a, the XRD pattern indicates the formed Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC has similar diffraction peaks with simulated Ni-BDC with a main peak at 8.9° corresponding to the (200) plane of MOF structure.[18] However, compared with that of simulated Ni-MOFs, the (200) planes of NiFe MOFs shift to a smaller diffraction angle, indicating the substitution of Ni by Fe ions leads to the expansion of crystal structure. Meanwhile, a peak splitting was observed in the main peaks indicating the lattice deformation due to the introduction of Fe into the Ni-BDC structure. The typical scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image in Figure 3b indicates a nanosheet array of MOFs on Fe foam with a thickness of around tens of nanometers, with a highly open 3D network for easy permeation of the electrolyte and fast diffusion of ions. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image conforms to the thin nanosheet morphology without nanoparticles preventing the formation of other NiFe species (Figure 3c). The high-resolution TEM image shows the lattice fringe of MOF with an interplane spacing of 1.105 nm, corresponding to the (200) plane of MOF structure (Figure 3d,e). The high-angle annular dark-field–scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF–STEM) image of NiFe-MOFs together with energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) images suggests the uniform distribution of Fe, Ni, C, and O elements (Figure 3f,g). To reveal the chemical valences and electronic interactions in NiFe MOFs, XPS analysis of three typical samples including Ni0.46Fe0.54-BDC, Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, and Ni0.26Fe0.74-BDC was then performed. The high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra in Figure 3h exhibit four fitting peaks of Ni2<sup>+</sup> along with two shakeup satellites. For Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, the peaks located at 856.0 eV (2p3/2) and 873.4 eV (2p1/2) can be attributed to the formation of Ni-O bands, while the peaks at 856.9 eV (2p3/2) and 874.8 eV (2p1/2) are ascribed to Ni-OH bands, indicating the formation of a link-effect between Ni ions and hydroxyl group in the MOFs.[8b,19] Meanwhile, as shown in the Fe 2p XPS spectrum of Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC in Figure 3i, the peaks at 710.9 and 724.6 eV can be assigned to Fe 2p3/2 and Fe 2p1/2, respectively, along with their satellite peaks, indicating Fe is in the +3 oxidation state. Compared with Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, the Fe 2p3/2 of Ni0.46Fe0.54-BDC has a lower binding energy value, while that of Ni0.26Fe0.74-BDC has a positive shift. However, the Ni 2p peaks do not show a notable shift of binding energy. The shift of Fe 2p3/2 to the low binding energy level with the increase of Fe may be ascribed to the effect of partial

**Figure 3.** Characterization of NiFe binary MOF. a) XRD pattern of Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC. b,c) SEM and TEM images of Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC. d,e) HR-TEM image and crystal plane spacing analysis of Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC. f,g) HAADF-STEM image and EDS elemental mappings of Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC. h–j) XPS spectra of Ni 2p, Fe 2p, and O 1s of Ni0.26Fe0.74-BDC, Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, and Ni0.46Fe0.54-BDC. k,l) XANES spectra of Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs and references. m) FT-EXAFS spectra.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advenergymat.de**

electron transfer from the metal nodes to the organic linkers with increased Fe element (Figure S26, Supporting Information).[20] The O 1s XPS spectrum of NiFe MOFs is fitted into three peaks at 531.1, 531.7, and 532.8 eV, which are ascribed to (Fe)Ni-O-R, O=C–O, and O–H (Figure 3j).[8b] In addition, the high-resolution C 1s XPS spectrum of NiFe MOFs can be deconvoluted into three peaks at 284.8, 285.5, and 288.5 eV, corresponding to the C–C bonds, C–O bonds, and carboxylate (O=C–O) groups of terephthalic linkers, respectively (Figure S27, Supporting Information), consistent with previous reports.[8b]

To further evaluate the site tailoring effect of MOF structures on OER, we extend the present system into ternary MOFs with the additional doping metal element into NiFe MOFs. In previous works, the element doping of Cu into NiFe compounds has been used to optimize the OER performance of NiFe-based catalysts by electron accepting for high-extent active metal valence.[21] We intentionally added a Cu source to prepare the metal-supported Cudoped NiFe MOFs. The prepared ternary MOF structures maintain the nanosheet morphology similar to NiFe MOFs with the lattice fringes corresponding to the (200) plane of the MOF structure (Figure S28, Supporting Information). The XPS was conducted to inspect the element valence states, in which a positive shift of Fe signal (2p3/2) could be observed after the addition of Cu compared with that of NiFe-BDCs (Figure S29, Supporting Information). No evident Cu could be detected, which may be due to its low concentration (Figure S30, Supporting Information). The X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) technique was further used to investigate the electronic structure and local coordination environment of MOFs. In Figure 3k, the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) shows that the as-synthesized MOF possess high Fe oxidation states with their K-edges close to the value of +3, which is significantly different from those of Fe foil, FeO, and Fe3O4. [11b] The shift of Fe K-edge to lower energies can be observed for NiFe-BDC compared with Fe-BDC, which is more pronounced in Cu-doped NiFe-BDC indicating ternary MOFs have a less-ordered structure promoting the electron transfer from the metal nodes to the organic linkers.[20] (Figure 3l). The Fourier-transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra show a decrease in the peak intensity at 1.50 Å of Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs compared with that of Fe-BDCs and NiFe-BDCs, corresponding to a locally distorted structure after the addition of Cu (Figure 3m). Meanwhile, a slightly shorter M–O bond compared with that of Fe-BDCs and NiFe-BDCs indicates more defects in Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs.[8b]

#### **2.4. OER Optimization of Cu-Doped NiFe MOFs**

As a proof of concept, the effect of copper addition on the electrocatalytic OER performance of MOFs in an alkaline medium (1 mol L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> KOH) was then studied in a standard three-electrode electrolytic cell. In **Figure 4**a, the polarization curves indicate that the current density of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC overwhelms those of NiFe-BDC, Fe-BDC, RuO2, etc. Specifically, Cu-doped NiFe-BDC has the lowest overpotentials of 200 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 4b), much lower than that of RuO2/NF (283 mV at 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Cu-doped NiFe-BDC also shows high performance at higher current densities, which requires 240 and 266 mV at 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, due to the supported structures with high intrinsic activity and fast mass transport property. Another evidence for high kinetics is the low Tafel slope of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC with 43.2 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, lower than that of NiFe-BDC (56.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and other catalysts in Figure 4c. The double-layer capacitance (*Cdl*) analysis indicates that Cu-doped NiFe-BDC has the highest electrochemical surface area, higher than NiFe-BDC and Fe-BDC (Figure 4d). To probe the effect of the doping amount of Cu on OER, we prepared Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs by tuning the addition of Cu with different amounts (Figure S31, Supporting Information). The series of obtained Cu-doped NiFe MOFs lead to distinct OER performance due to the variable of Cu (Figure S32, Supporting Information). Then, the ECSA and specific capacitance were evaluated (Figures S33 and S34, Supporting Information). The *j* ECSA of Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs were then calculated by normalizing the current against ECSA (Figure 4e). The optimal molar ratio of Cu/Ni is 0.1:1 for the highest *j* ECSA, corresponding to the intrinsic activity. Cu-doped NiFe-BDC can achieve electrocatalytic OER at a high current density of 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> to meet the requirements for industrial applications. The electrocatalytic OER stability of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC was studied by the chronopotentiometry measurement. In Figure 4f, Cudoped NiFe-BDC exhibits great stability for more than 100 h at the current density of 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and shows strong robustness after 5000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles. It is observed that the nanosheet morphology of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC could still maintain well after OER with the formation of surface oxidation species of metal hydroxides (Figures S35 and S36, Supporting Information). In addition, no significant signal corresponding to the new phase appears in the XRD pattern and TEM image of NiFe-BDCs after the OER. The highest catalytic activity surpasses the recently reported state-of-the-art non-noble metal-based OER electrocatalysts at high current densities (Figure 4g, and Tables S6, and S7, Supporting Information).

## **2.5. In Situ X-Ray Absorption Analysis**

To elucidate the origin of the outstanding OER catalytic performance and the structural advantages, the dynamic changes in oxidation state and local coordination environment at OER-relevant potentials were probed by in situ XAS. In situ XANES spectra were measured at open circuit voltage (OCV) and OER potential from 1.10 to 1.80 V versus RHE in 0.1 M KOH electrolyte (**Figure 5**). The Ni K-edge XANES spectra of NiFe-BDC and Cudoped NiFe-BDC show a notable decrease in the white-line peak intensity as the applied electrochemical potential is increased (Figure 5a,b). The corresponding XANES measured at the Fe K-edge has minor changes in the edge position indicating that Fe electronic states remain quite stable upon polarization similar to the previously reported NiFe hydroxide (Figure 5d,e).[17] A close inspection of Ni K-edge positions in the XANES spectra shows that the shift to more positive energy corresponds to the oxidation of surface Ni species from Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> considering that this redox couple is known to occur between ≈1.375 to 1.475 V (Figure 5c).[22] Interestingly, the Ni oxidation under the polarization condition follows a similar trend below 1.5 V for two samples, which is suppressed in Cu-doped NiFe-BDC at higher potential indicating the electronic state and local geometry of the Ni centers are stabilized upon polarization in the presence of Cu

**Figure 4.** Electrocatalysis performance. a) Polarization curves of various samples for OER. (b) Overpotentials of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC, NiFe-BDC, Fe-BDC, Fe foam, and RuO2 to achieve the current densities of 10, 100, and 300 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. c) Tafel plots of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC, NiFe-BDC, Fe-BDC, and Fe foam. d) Capacitance. e) Specific current densities of Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs with the addition of different amounts of Cu precursors. f) Chronopotentiometric curve of Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs. Inset displays the polarization curves before and after CV cycles of 1000, 2000, and 5000. g) The comparison of overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> with other non-noble metal materials for electrocatalytic OER.

(Figure S37, Supporting Information). In contrast, a small positive shift in the edge energy of Fe K-edge indicates that Fe is partially oxidized, in which the Fe K-edge of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC undergoes a rapid shift once the polarization is applied compared with that of NiFe-BDC (Figure 5f). Compared with the slow rise of the valence state of Fe ions in NiFe-BDC, the valence state of Fe ions in Cu-doped NiFe-BDC has a faster oxidation process. Typically, the increase of metal valence is the result of a deprotonation process during OER.[23] Cu doping is likely to promote the adsorption of the OH ions on the active sites to form adsorbed M-OH species and subsequently prompt the deprotonation process at a low potential to form active oxygen species (M-OOH) on the surface, as reflected in theoretical studies (Tables S1 and S5, Supporting Information). The balance of OH/OOH adsorption and decreased overall energy barrier likely account for the OER activity enhancement in Cu-doped NiFe-BDC. The local coordination information of metal sites under electrochemical reaction conditions was further analyzed by FT-EXAFS (Figure S38, Supporting Information). The peak at the radial distance of about 1.50 Å corresponds to single scattering paths of the metal ion to the closest neighboring crystal oxygen (Ni–O), while the peak at 2.85 Å was assigned to the radial distances of Ni site to their neighbor metal atoms. Under the applied potential, the radial distances of the Ni–O–M shell of both samples have a general increase with the applied bias, while the Ni–O bonds of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC have extended than that of NiFe-BDC indicating the distorted local coordination in presence of Cu. In contrast, the Fe-O and Fe-O-M shells show high stability under the applied potential.

#### **2.6. Theoretical Investigation of the Role of Copper**

To examine the experimental result that Cu doping can further boost the OER activity, we then conducted the DFT calculations using the models of Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs, in which the Ni/Fe

**Figure 5.** In situ XAS measurements. a,b) Normalized in situ Fe and Ni K-edge XANES spectra of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC recorded at different applied potentials. c) Ni K-edge position shift at varied electrochemical potentials for NiFe-BDC and Cu-doped NiFe-BDC. d,e) Normalized in situ Fe and Ni K-edge XANES spectra of NiFe-BDC recorded at different applied potentials. f) Fe K-edge position shift at varied electrochemical potentials for NiFe-BDC and Cu-doped NiFe-BDC. g) Schematic representation of the electronic coupling between Ni, Fe, and Cu in Cu-doped NiFe-BDC.

ratio was tuned to 1:1 and 1:2 denoted as Cu-doped Ni0.50Fe0.50- BDC and Cu-doped Ni0.33Fe0.67-BDC, respectively (Figures S39 and S40, Supporting Information). The adsorption behavior of the OER intermediates (i.e., OH\*, O\*, and OOH\*) on the catalyst models was examined (Table S5, Supporting Information), and the corresponding Gibbs free energy profiles for the OER are displayed in Figure S41, Supporting Information. Together with the Gibbs free energies on NiFe-BDC structures, ΔG\*O and ΔG\*OOH show the fitted scaling relations with ∆*G\*OH*, which are ∆*G\*O* = 0.45∆*G\*OH* + 1.78 and ∆*G\*OOH* = 0.26∆*G\*OH* + 3.64, respectively (**Figure 6**a). The results are different from that on metal oxide, which has a typical scaling relation of ∆*G\*OOH* = ∆*G\*OH* + 3.6; [24] the low value of Δ*G\*OOH* versus Δ*G\*OH* (0.26) for NiFe MOF structures indicates they are less correlated by the scaling relation. Based on the scaling relation, an ideal OER catalyst should generally have an optimal Δ*G*\*O value between Δ*G\*OH* and Δ*G\*OOH*. It can be concluded that the OER activity on all the catalyst models can be described as a function of the Gibbs adsorption energies (Δ*G\*OOH* − Δ*G\*O*) and Δ*G\*OOH*. The former corresponds to the steps of O−O coupling (\*O → \*OOH), and latter corresponds to O2 release (\*OOH → O2).[25] The OER activity of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC is improved, benefitting from the increased Δ*G*\*OOH and decreased (Δ*G\*OOH* − Δ*G\*O*) values. For example, Ni-BDC has a Δ*G\*OOH* of 3.866 eV and Δ*G\*OOH* − Δ*G\*O* of 2.033 eV, while Ni0.33Fe0.67 BDC has a Δ*G*\*OOH of 3.753 eV and Δ*G*\*OOH − Δ*G*\*O of 1.539 eV. After the addition of Cu, the Δ*G\*OOH* and

Δ*G\*OOH* − Δ*G\*O* are 4.024 and 1.493 eV for Ni0.33Fe0.67Cua-BDC, respectively. This means that the energy barrier of the potentialdetermining step of OOH formation is reduced. Accordingly, the theoretical overpotentials for the NiFe-BDC and Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs are plotted on a 2D map of (∆*GO\** − ∆*GOH\**) and ∆*GOH\**. The overpotential at the Fe site of Cu-doped Ni0.50Fe0.50-BDC is 0.44 V limited by the step of \*OOH formation, while it reduces to 0.26 V when the Ni/Fe ratio is around 1:2 in the Cu-doped NiFe-BDC consistent with the previous result demonstrating the effect of copper doping on the optimization of intermediate formation energy. Cu doping enhances the electrocatalytic activity by balancing the \*OOH/\*O adsorption by lowering the scaling relation.

## **3. Conclusion**

Under the theoretical guidance of the model catalysts of Ni-based MOFs with tunable Ni/Fe ratios, we experimentally demonstrate the highest intrinsic OER activity of NiFe-BDC when the Ni/Fe ratio is 1:2 by in situ growth on Fe foam in the presence of metal leaching. Introducing a proper amount of Cu further boosts the OER performance of the Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs with an impressively low overpotential of 200 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and high structural durability. In situ XAS spectroscopy shows that the copper addition can significantly induce electron redistribution with an abundant high valence state of iron species under the reaction.

Figure 6. DFT calculations. a) Scaling relations of adsorption energies among OER intermediates of O\* and \*OOH against that of \*OH. Insets are the structural configurations of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC with adsorbed intermediates. b) 2D map of theoretical overpotentials (η) as the function of  $\Delta G_{O^*} - \Delta G_{OH^*}$  and  $\Delta G_{OH^*}$  for the Cu-doped NiFe-BDC, NiFe-BDC, and Ni-BDC, labeled from 1 to 13 as shown in Tables S1 and S5, Supporting Information. The individual values of η are indicated in brackets. The contour map is constructed using fitted scaling as  $\Delta G_{(^*OOH)} = 0.26\Delta G_{(^*OH)} + 3.64$  eV in order to minimize the errors in the mapping.

The theoretical calculations indicate the enhanced activity can be attributed to the balance of OH/OOH adsorption and decreased energy barrier for improved OER. This work enlightens the effective active site tailoring of MOFs in the presence of metal leaching and its correlation with the high activity and underlying mechanism promising for high-current industrial water splitting.

### 4. Experimental Section

Chemicals: All reagents were purchased from commercial sources and used as received without further purification. nickel chloride hexahydrate (NiCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.0%), iron chloride hexahydrate (FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.0%), copper chloride dehydrate (CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O, 99.0%), benzene-1,4-dicarboxylic acid, hydrochloric acid (HCl, 37.5%), and ethanol are purchased from Nanjing Reagent, Inc. Potassium hydroxide (KOH, 99.9%), Pt/C (20 wt%), ruthenium (IV) oxide (RuO<sub>2</sub>, 99.9%), and Nafion solution (5%) were bought from Sigma-Aldrich, Inc. All of the chemicals were of research purity and used without any further treatment.

Synthesis of BDC on Metal Foam: First, DMF (26 mL), ethanol (1.6 mL), and water (1.6 mL) were mixed, followed by the addition of 200 mg of BDC to form a uniform solution under stirring. Subsequently, a piece of metal foam (e.g., Fe, Ni, Cu, Co) with a size of  $4 \times 2$  cm was immersed into the above solution, which was transferred to a stainless-steel autoclave and heated at  $140\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  for  $12\,\text{h}$ . After cooling down to room temperature, the metal foam was taken out and washed with plenty of ethanol, and then dried overnight under vacuum at  $60\,^{\circ}\text{C}$  for further use.

Synthesis of NiFe-BDCs and Cu-Doped NiFe-BDCs on Fe Foam: First, DMF (26 mL), ethanol (1.6 mL), and water (1.6 mL) were mixed, followed by the addition of 200 mg of BDC to form a uniform solution under stirring. Subsequently, a certain amount of NiCl $_2$ ·6H $_2$ O and CuCl $_2$ ·2H $_2$ O was added to the above solution and a piece of Fe foam (4 × 2 cm) was immersed. Then, the mixture was transferred to a stainless-steel autoclave and heated at 140 °C for 12 h. After cooling down to room temperature, the metal foam with grown Cu-doped NiFe-BDCs was taken out and washed with plenty of ethanol and then dried overnight under vacuum at 60 °C. For the synthesis of NiFe-BDCs on Fe foam, the method was similar to that of Cu-doped NiFe-BDC on Fe foam except that no CuCl $_2$ ·2H $_2$ O was added.

Materials Characterization: The morphology was characterized by SEM (Regulus 8100) and TEM (FEI Tecnai G2 F20 microscope), respectively. Crystalline structure was identified by a Bruker D8 Advance X-ray diffraction system with  $\text{Cu-K}\alpha$  radiation. Raman spectra were acquired on

a confocal laser micro-Raman spectrometer (Renishaw in Via) with an exciting wavelength of 514.5 nm. The chemical states of the materials were studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (Thermo ESCALAB 250).

Electrochemical Performance Evaluation: The electrochemical performance was evaluated in a three-electrode electrochemical cell filled with 1.0 M KOH electrolyte by using the CS studio electrochemical workstation. The Ag/AgCl electrode was used as the reference electrode, while a graphite rod was applied as the counter electrode. The metal foam in situ grown with catalyst materials was used as the working electrode for OER. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were obtained using the polarization method at the scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> by iR correction. The potentials were calibrated using the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by  $E_{VS,RHE} = E_{VS,Ag/AgCl} + 0.198$  (V) + 0.059 pH.

Calculation of ECSA and the Specific Current Densities: The ECSA was estimated from the electrochemical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) according to the following equation.

$$ECSA = \frac{C_{dl}}{C_s} \tag{1}$$

where  $C_s$  is 0.040 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> based on reported values.

CVs were obtained for a potential range in which no Faradaic processes were occurring, and the geometric current density was plotted against the scan rate of the CV. The slope of the linear regression gave the value of  $C_{dl}$ .

In Situ XAS Measurements: In situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy including X-ray absorption near edge spectra (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) at Co K-edge were collected in total-fluorescence-yield mode using a silicon drift detector in BL-44A at National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC), Taiwan. The measurement in a typical three-electrode setup as the same condition in the electrochemical characterization case was performed in a specially designed Teflon container with a window sealed by Kapton tape. The scan range was kept in an energy range of 7600–8300 eV for Co K-edge. Subtracting the baseline of pre-edge and normalizing that of post-edge obtained the spectra. EXAFS analysis was conducted using Fourier transform on k²-weighted EXAFS oscillations to evaluate the contribution of each bond pair to Fourier transform peak. All EXAFS spectra were presented without phase correction.

Calculation Methods: The first principles were employed to perform all spin-polarization DFT calculations within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) using the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) formulation.<sup>[26]</sup> The projected augmented wave (PAW) potentials were chosen to describe the ionic cores and take valence electrons into account using a plane wave

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advenergymat.de**

basis set with a kinetic energy cutoff of 520 eV.[27] Partial occupancies of the Kohn–Sham orbitals were allowed using the Gaussian smearing method and a width of 0.05 eV. The electronic energy was considered selfconsistent when the energy change was smaller than 10−<sup>6</sup> eV. A geometry optimization was considered convergent when the energy change was smaller than 0.05 eV Å<sup>−</sup>1. The vacuum spacing in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the structure is 15 Å. The Brillouin zone integration is performed using 3 × 3 × 1 Monkhorst-Pack k-point sampling for a structure. The free energy was calculated using the equation:

$$G = E + ZPE - TS \tag{2}$$

where G, E, ZPE, and TS are the free energy, total energy from DFT calculations, zero point energy, and entropic contributions, respectively. The Ni-MOF (100) surface has been chosen using the 3 × 2 × 1 supercell of the Ni MOF structure

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22101132, 51871119, and 22075141), the Scientific and Technological Innovation Special Fund for Carbon Peak and Carbon Neutrality of Jiangsu Province (BK20220039), Jiangsu Provincial Founds for Natural Science Foundation (BK20210311), and Jiangsu Agriculture Science and Technology Innovation Fund (CX(22)3134). The support from the National Science and Technology Council, Taiwan (NSTC 111–2628–M–A49–007), and Ministry of Education, Taiwan (Yushan Scholar Program) are gratefully acknowledged. The authors thank the National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC), Hsinchu, Taiwan for conducting EAXFS measurement.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the Supporting Information.

## **Keywords**

active site tailoring, in situ characterizations, multiple-component metalorganic frameworks, oxygen evolution reaction

> Received: April 25, 2023 Revised: May 31, 2023 Published online: June 17, 2023

[1] a) P. De Luna, C. Hahn, D. Higgins, S. A. Jaffer, T. F. Jaramillo, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2019**, *364*, aav3506; b) L. Wang, Y. Hao, L. Deng, F. Hu, S. Zhao, L. Li, S. Peng, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5785; c) Y. Chen, F. Hu, Y. Hao, Y. Wang, Y. Xie, H. Wang, L. Yin, D. Yu, H. Yang, J. Ma, D. Kai, L. Li, S. Peng, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 3283; d) J. W. Zhao, H. Zhang, C. F. Li, X. Zhou, J. Q. Wu, F. Zeng, J. Zhang, G. R. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3912.

- [2] a) Y. Sun, S. Xu, C. A. Ortíz-Ledón, J. Zhu, S. Chen, J. Duan, *Exploration* **2021**, *1*, 20210021; b) Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 2060; c) Z. Zeng, L. Y. Gan, H. Bin Yang, X. Su, J. Gao, W. Liu, H. Matsumoto, J. Gong, J. Zhang, W. Cai, Z. Zhang, Y. Yan, B. Liu, P. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4088.
- [3] a) P. Zhai, M. Xia, Y. Wu, G. Zhang, J. Gao, B. Zhang, S. Cao, Y. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Fan, C. Wang, X. Zhang, J. T. Miller, L. Sun, J. Hou, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4587; b) J. W. Zhao, C. F. Li, Z. X. Shi, J. L. Guan, G. R. Li, *Research* **2020**, *2020*, 6961578; c) C. F. Li, L. J. Xie, J. W. Zhao, L. F. Gu, J. Q. Wu, G. R. Li, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *306*, 121097.
- [4] a) B. H. R. Suryanto, Y. Wang, R. K. Hocking, W. Adamson, C. Zhao, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5599; b) Z. He, J. Zhang, Z. Gong, H. Lei, D. Zhou, N. Zhang, W. Mai, S. Zhao, Y. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2191; c) P. Zhai, Y. Zhang, Y. Wu, J. Gao, B. Zhang, S. Cao, Y. Zhang, Z. Li, L. Sun, J. Hou, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5462; d) A. Sivanantham, P. Ganesan, A. Vinu, S. Shanmugam, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 463; e) Y. Wang, X. Li, M. Zhang, Y. Zhou, D. Rao, C. Zhong, J. Zhang, X. Han, W. Hu, Y. Zhang, K. Zaghib, Y. Wang, Y. Deng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000231; f) F.-L. Li, Q. Shao, X. Huang, J.-P. Lang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 1888; g) X. Zheng, J. Yang, Z. Xu, Q. Wang, J. Wu, E. Zhang, S. Dou, W. Sun, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202205946.
- [5] a) W. Liu, D. Zheng, T. Deng, Q. Chen, C. Zhu, C. Pei, H. Li, F. Wu, W. Shi, S. W. Yang, Y. Zhu, X. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 10614; b) H. Wang, B. H. Chen, D. J. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008023; c) C. F. Li, J. W. Zhao, L. J. Xie, J. Q. Wu, Q. Ren, Y. Wang, G. R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 18129; d) C. F. Li, T. Y. Shuai, L. R. Zheng, H. B. Tang, J. W. Zhao, G. R. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *451*, 138618.
- [6] a) S. Zhao, C. Tan, C.-T. He, P. An, F. Xie, S. Jiang, Y. Zhu, K.-H. Wu, B. Zhang, H. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Chen, S. Liu, J. Dong, Z. Tang, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 881; b) S. Zhao, Y. Wang, J. Dong, C.-T. He, H. Yin, P. An, K. Zhao, X. Zhang, C. Gao, L. Zhang, J. Lv, J. Wang, J. Zhang, A. M. Khattak, N. A. Khan, Z. Wei, J. Zhang, S. Liu, H. Zhao, Z. Tang, *Nat. Energy* **2016**, *1*, 16184; c) J. Q. Shen, P. Q. Liao, D. D. Zhou, C. T. He, J. X. Wu, W. X. Zhang, J. P. Zhang, X. M. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 1778; d) S. Chen, W.-H. Li, W. Jiang, J. Yang, J. Zhu, L. Wang, H. Ou, Z. Zhuang, M. Chen, X. Sun, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202114450.
- [7] Y. S. Wei, M. Zhang, M. Kitta, Z. Liu, S. Horike, Q. Xu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7906.
- [8] a) F. Zheng, W. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, W. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103318; b) C. F. Li, L. J. Xie, J. W. Zhao, L. F. Gu, H. B. Tang, L. Zheng, G. R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116934; c) F. Shahbazi Farahani, M. S. Rahmanifar, A. Noori, M. F. El-Kady, N. Hassani, M. Neek-Amal, R. B. Kaner, M. F. Mousavi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 3411.
- [9] a) Z. Xue, K. Liu, Q. Liu, Y. Li, M. Li, C.-Y. Su, N. Ogiwara, H. Kobayashi, H. Kitagawa, M. Liu, G. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5048; b) W. Cheng, X. Zhao, H. Su, F. Tang, W. Che, H. Zhang, Q. Liu, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 115; c) Q. Ji, Y. Kong, C. Wang, H. Tan, H. Duan, W. Hu, G. Li, Y. Lu, N. Li, Y. Wang, J. Tian, Z. Qi, Z. Sun, F. Hu, W. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 5691; d) J. Zhou, Y. Dou, X. Q. Wu, A. Zhou, L. Shu, J. R. Li, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906564.
- [10] a) F.-L. Li, P. Wang, X. Huang, D. J. Young, H.-F. Wang, P. Braunstein, J.-P. Lang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 7051; b) L. Zhuang, L. Ge, H. Liu, Z. Jiang, Y. Jia, Z. Li, D. Yang, R. K. Hocking, M. Li, L. Zhang, X. Wang, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 13565; c) B. Wang, J. Shang, C. Guo, J. Zhang, F. Zhu, A. Han, J. Liu, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1804761.
- [11] a) L. Zhang, W. Cai, N. Bao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2100745; b) F. Hu, D. Yu, M. Ye, H. Wang, Y. Hao, L. Wang, L. Li, X. Han, S. Peng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200067; c) P. Zhang, L. Li, D. Nordlund, H. Chen, L. Fan, B. Zhang, X. Sheng, Q. Daniel, L. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 381.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advenergymat.de**

- [12] a) M. F. Sanad, A. R. Puente Santiago, S. A. Tolba, M. A. Ahsan, O. Fernandez-Delgado, M. Shawky Adly, E. M. Hashem, M. Mahrous Abodouh, M. S. El-Shall, S. T. Sreenivasan, N. K. Allam, L. Echegoyen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 4064; b) W. Cheng, Z. P. Wu, D. Luan, S. Q. Zang, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26397.
- [13] a) J. Duan, S. Chen, C. Zhao, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15341; b) D.-J. Li, Q.-H. Li, Z.-G. Gu, J. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 18519; c) S. Hou, W. Li, S. Watzele, R. M. Kluge, S. Xue, S. Yin, X. Jiang, M. Doblinger, A. Welle, B. Garlyyev, M. Koch, P. Muller-Buschbaum, C. Woll, A. S. Bandarenka, R. A. Fischer, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103218.
- [14] a) D. Y. Chung, P. P. Lopes, P. Farinazzo Bergamo Dias Martins, H. He, T. Kawaguchi, P. Zapol, H. You, D. Tripkovic, D. Strmcnik, Y. Zhu, S. Seifert, S. Lee, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 222; b) X. L. Wang, L. Z. Dong, M. Qiao, Y. J. Tang, J. Liu, Y. Li, S. L. Li, J. X. Su, Y. Q. Lan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 9660.
- [15] a) X. Liu, M. Gong, D. Xiao, S. Deng, J. Liang, T. Zhao, Y. Lu, T. Shen, J. Zhang, D. Wang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2000663; b) L. Huang, G. Gao, H. Zhang, J. Chen, Y. Fang, S. Dong, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *68*, 104296.
- [16] M. Görlin, P. Chernev, J. F. de Araujo, T. Reier, S. Dresp, B. Paul, R. Krahnert, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 5603.
- [17] D. Friebel, M. W. Louie, M. Bajdich, K. E. Sanwald, Y. Cai, A. M. Wise, M.-J. Cheng, D. Sokaras, T.-C. Weng, R. Alonso-Mori, R. C. Davis, J. R. Bargar, J. K. Nørskov, A. Nilsson, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 1305.

- [18] F. Sun, G. Wang, Y. Ding, C. Wang, B. Yuan, Y. Lin, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1800584.
- [19] L. Deng, F. Hu, M. Ma, S.-C. Huang, Y. Xiong, H.-Y. Chen, L. Li, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22276.
- [20] J. Yu, Q. Li, Y. Li, C.-Y. Xu, L. Zhen, V. P. Dravid, J. Wu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, 7644.
- [21] Z. Cai, L. Li, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, J. Yang, Y. Guo, L. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 4189.
- [22] D. F. Abbott, E. Fabbri, M. Borlaf, F. Bozza, R. Schäublin, M. Nachtegaal, T. Graule, T. J. Schmidt, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 24534.
- [23] Z. Xiao, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, C. Xie, Z. Liu, S. Du, W. Chen, D. Yan, L. Tao, Z. Shu, G. Zhang, H. Duan, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, R. Chen, S. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 12087.
- [24] I. C. Man, H.-Y. Su, F. Calle-Vallejo, H. A. Hansen, J. I. Martínez, N. G. Inoglu, J. Kitchin, T. F. Jaramillo, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, *Chem-CatChem* **2011**, *3*, 1159.
- [25] Y. Zhou, R. Lu, X. Tao, Z. Qiu, G. Chen, J. Yang, Y. Zhao, X. Feng, K. Müllen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 3647.
- [26] a) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Comput. Mater. Sci.* **1996**, *6*, 15; b) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169; c) J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [27] a) G. Kresse, D. Joubert, *Phys. Rev. B* **1999**, *59*, 1758; b) P. E. Blöchl, *Phys. Rev. B* **1994**, *50*, 17953.

16146840, 2023, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202301224 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License