---
source: Ishaque 等 - 2020 - Development of transition metal based electrolyzer for efficient oxygen evolution reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 62.379s
generated: 2026-01-09T06:52:00.499815Z
---

# **Development of transition metal based electrolyzer for efficient oxygen evolution reaction**

Cite as: J. Renewable Sustainable Energy **12**, 024102 (2020); <https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5123234> Submitted: 04 August 2019 . Accepted: 19 February 2020 . Published Online: 10 March 2020

[Muhammad Ishaque,](https://aip.scitation.org/author/Ishaque%2C+Muhammad) [Afzal Shah](https://aip.scitation.org/author/Shah%2C+Afzal) [,](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9465-9185) [Faiza Jan Iftikhar](https://aip.scitation.org/author/Iftikhar%2C+Faiza+Jan) , and [Muhammad Akbar](https://aip.scitation.org/author/Akbar%2C+Muhammad)

# **ARTICLES YOU MAY BE INTERESTED IN**

[Effect of encapsulation and additives doping on the thermophysical properties of erythritol for](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5134103) [thermal energy storage](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5134103)

Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy **12**, 024103 (2020); [https://](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5134103) [doi.org/10.1063/1.5134103](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5134103)

[Characterization and experimental validation of a semi-empirical fuel cell model for](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5121609) [investigating the water dynamics on the electrical behavior of a 5 kW Ballard stack system](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5121609) [using Nafion 117 polymer membrane](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5121609)

Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy **12**, 024301 (2020); [https://](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5121609) [doi.org/10.1063/1.5121609](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5121609)

[Correlated power time series of individual wind turbines: A data driven model approach](https://aip.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/1.5139039) Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy **12**, 023301 (2020); [https://](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5139039) [doi.org/10.1063/1.5139039](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5139039)

# Development of transition metal based electrolyzer for efficient oxygen evolution reaction

Cite as: J. Renewable Sustainable Energy **12**, 024102 (2020); doi: 10.1063/1.5123234 Submitted: 4 August 2019 · Accepted: 19 February 2020 · Published Online: 10 March 2020

Muhammad Ishaque, Afzal Shah, 2, a) b Faiza Jan Iftikhar, 5 and Muhammad Akbar

#### **AFFILIATIONS**

- <sup>1</sup>Department of Chemistry, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad 45320, Pakistan
- <sup>2</sup>Department of Chemistry, College of Science, University of Bahrain, Sakhir 32038, Bahrain
- <sup>3</sup>NUTECH School of Applied Sciences and Humanities, National University of Technology, Islamabad 44000, Pakistan

#### ABSTRACT

The greatest challenge of the 21st century is to develop renewable systems of energy, which are efficient, environmentally friendly, and scalable. In this context, production of hydrogen and oxygen from electrolysis of water is a smart approach. Its inputs are only water and potential. However, oxygen evolution reaction (OER) via water splitting is a sluggish reaction. So, herein, we report the synthesis of a novel OER hybrid tetrametallic electrocatalyst (Co–Ni–Fe–Zn) that is cost affordable as compared to the traditional precious noble-metal-based catalysts. It was grown over the surface of fluorine doped tin oxide by a facile potentiodynamic method, and the surface modification was ensured from XRD, scanning electron microscopy, and energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy analyses. The OER catalytic activity of the designed electrocatalyst was examined through electrochemical techniques. Linear scan voltammetric results revealed that the as-prepared catalyst generates a signal of OER with a current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> at an overpotential of just 90 mV under alkaline conditions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on an OER catalyst that demands the lowest overpotential. Hence, the synthesized catalyst is a promising candidate for realizing the dream of rapidly producing sustainable and environmentally friendly fuel.

Published under license by AIP Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5123234

### I. INTRODUCTION

The use of carbon based fuels has led to grave environmental concerns. The non-renewable nature of fossil fuels and their environmental implications have pushed the scientists to search for clean energy sources.<sup>1,2</sup> In this scenario, the current focus of researchers is on the development of sustainable technologies that could generate, store, and convert energy into usable forms.<sup>3-6</sup> The abundantly available energy resource such as water has attracted considerable attention as it can undergo electro-oxidation in the presence of catalysts to produce H2 and O2 via oxygen and hydrogen evolution reactions (OER and HER, respectively). The generated gases can be either stored and utilized for industrial purposes or used for power generation (via fuel cells) with no environmental hazards. It is important to mention that the overpotential to drive the OER at the anode has been found to be much higher than the HER at the cathode because of the slow kinetics of this reaction. Thus, efforts are under way toward developing sustainable and efficient catalysts for OER in different electrolytic environments. Rutile-type RuO2 and IrO2 are known as benchmark electrocatalysts for OER; however, high cost and meager availability hinder their utility for scalable applications.<sup>8–10</sup> Lower values of onset potential and overpotential and a higher value of current density define the activity of the catalyst toward OER. Thus, alternatives are needed, which could comply with the requirement of being inexpensive and abundant, as well as efficient.

In this regard, transition metals and their hybrids for harnessing the synergistic properties of the combining metals are promising options as OER catalysts. First row transition elements and their oxides are extensively studied for their enhanced catalytic activities. Oxide based complexes of Fe, Ni, and Co have been reported to act as efficient OER catalysts in alkaline media; however, the corrosion of these materials limits their utility. By alloying Ni with Fe, Co, Cu, W, and Mo, corrosion is hindered, and the use of these alloys improves the rate of water oxidation as reported in the literature. Santana *et al.* found that the Ni–Fe–Mo ternary alloy shows enhanced catalytic activity toward HER/OER compared to individual components of this material. Similarly, Jafarian *et al.* documented the improved OER catalytic activity of nanocrystalline Co–Ni–Fe over Ni alone. In obsed catalysts also improve the rate of OER. However, corrosion is still an issue when iron is attempted to be used alone for OER. For enhancing

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>a)</sup>Author to whom correspondence should be addressed: afzal.shah@utoronto.ca and afzals gau@yahoo.com

the corrosion resistivity of iron, it is usually alloyed with other metals such as Co, Ni, Mo, Cu, and Zn.16 Working in this area, Yang et al. made fine tuning of the electronic properties of binary and ternary alloys such as FeCo and FeCoNi by controlling the metal proportions functionalized on a graphene layer. The alloys were found to exhibit enhanced electrocatalytic activity due to synergistic effects of the combining components.<sup>17</sup> Similarly, Zn is an unstable water splitting catalyst in alkaline medium, while combining it with a Ni based catalyst such as Ni-Layered Double Hydroxides (LDHs) leads to its improved stability and activity toward OER. 18,19 In one particular study, combining Zn with Co was reported to enhance its OER activity and corrosion resistance.<sup>20</sup> Keeping these considerations in mind, we prepared a composite of the tetrametallic (Co-Ni-Fe-Zn) electrocatalyst by replacing the time consuming ex situ fabrication method for electrode modification by an in situ one-pot facile method. The preparation of this catalyst involving synergistic enhancement in the properties of the four metals is so far an unexplored matter. Imparting distinctive properties to a composite as a result of synergy of the combining components is a challenging task as all combinations do not lead to favorable enhancement in synergistic properties. Yet, we anticipate that by tuning the composite's composition and selection of the respective metals, electrocatalytic activity could be enhanced. Therefore, for the purpose of our study, we preferred to choose the transition metals due to their availability, cost affordability, and natural abundance, as well as being able to offer lower overpotential and high current density. Our work focuses on OER in alkaline medium by synthesizing a robust novel tetrametallic electrocatalyst; hence, the crux of the process occurring at the anode has been demonstrated by Suen et al., 21 who suggested the OER mechanism through two routes in alkaline medium by virtue of which formation of different intermediates such as M-OH, oxo M-O, and peroxide M-OOH and their subsequent decomposition to form O<sub>2</sub> are suggested for enhanced electrocatalysis.

Moreover, we used a simple one step *in situ* deposition method to grow the micro-particles of the tetrametallic composite on the surface of fluorine doped tin oxide (FTO) instead of using other complex synthesis methods as reported in the literature, which corroborated well with the frugality of the proposed study and justification to use a tetrametallic catalyst. The implication of the present research is expected to open up new research for combining useful members of the composites to get effective candidates for catalyzing OER. Interestingly, our synthesized tetrametallic composite catalyst significantly boosted the oxygen evolution reaction at the lowest overpotential (90 mV) ever reported in the literature.

#### II. EXPERIMENTAL

#### A. Materials

For the development of the proposed electrocatalyst and its performance, cobalt (II) sulfate heptahydrate (CoSO<sub>4</sub>·7H<sub>2</sub>O), nickel (II) sulfate pentahydrate (NiSO<sub>4</sub>·5H<sub>2</sub>O), zinc sulfate heptahydrate (ZnSO<sub>4</sub>·7H<sub>2</sub>O), iron (II) sulfate heptahydrate (FeSO<sub>4</sub>·7H<sub>2</sub>O), potassium hydroxide (KOH), boric acid (H<sub>3</sub>BO<sub>3</sub>), lithium sulfate (Li<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>), potassium chloride (KCl), citric acid (C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>8</sub>O<sub>7</sub>), sodium sulfate (Na<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>), and Trion X-100 were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and used as received. All salt solutions required for alloy formation were prepared in de-ionized water. FTO having a surface area of 1 cm<sup>-2</sup> was used as a transducer. Before using FTO, it was cleaned by rinsing with distilled water followed by ultrasonication with ethanol for 20 min, acetone for 20 min, and finally again with distilled water for

20 min. The *in situ* electrodeposition method was utilized for the development of the film of the electrocatalyst over the FTO substrate.

#### **B.** Instrumentation

All the electrochemical experiments such as cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronoamperometry (CA), and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) were carried out using a computer controlled potentiostat Metrohm Autolab PGSTAT-302N running with NOVA 1.11 software. A three electrode system was used for the electrochemical analysis of the samples by using Ag/AgCl (3M KCl) as the reference electrode and platinum wire as the counter electrode, while modified and unmodified FTO was used as the working electrode. Modification of the FTO substrate with different metallic films was examined through XRD, Energy Dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy, and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). XRD analysis was done with a Bruker Focus D8 via a ceramic mono-chromatized Cu  $K\alpha$  radiation of 1.54 178 Å with a scanning range of  $20^{\circ}$ – $70^{\circ}$  operating at  $5^{\circ}$  per min in  $2\theta$  at  $45\,\mathrm{kV}$  and  $45\,\mathrm{mA}$ . The SEM micrographs and EDX spectra were obtained on a Hitachi S-4800 (Hitachi, Japan) equipped with a Horiba EDX system (X-max, silicon drift x-ray detector). SEM images were taken with an acceleration voltage of 5 kV, while EDX mapping images and spectra were recorded at a scanning time of 20 min.

#### C. Electrode modification

Before immobilizing metal ions on the FTO surface, cyclic voltammetry was conducted in acidic solution containing 0.5M boric acid and 0.1M lithium sulfate to investigate the reduction potentials of the respective metal ions. After determination of the reduction potential of the selected metals, CA was conducted in order to electroplate metals on the electrode surface at a constant reduction potential. For effective electrodeposition, the applied potential at the FTO surface needs to be more negative than the reduction potential of the respective metals.<sup>22</sup> Therefore, for depositing a greater amount of metals on the FTO surface, chronoamperometric experiments were conducted at potentials more negative than the reduction potentials of the selected metal ions. In order to pursue a stable catalyst film formation on FTO, deposition was examined in various electrolytic media such as KOH (pH 9 and 14), boric acid, boric acid + sodium sulfate, citric acid, and boric acid + lithium sulfate to probe the most suitable medium for the electroreduction of metal ions at the FTO surface. 5 ml each of the salt solutions (CoSO<sub>4</sub>, NiSO<sub>4</sub>, FeSO<sub>4</sub>, and ZnSO<sub>4</sub>) either individually or in combinations to form bi-, tri-, and tetrametallic catalysts were added to a 20 ml electrolyte solution and placed in an electrochemical cell for electrodeposition via controlled potential electrolysis (CPE). The molar ratios among all metal components were optimized. The electrodeposition was investigated in various electrolytic media at three potentials, viz., -1.3 V, -1.4 V, and -1.5 V for 900 s. After modification of FTO surfaces, LSVs were conducted subsequently at 10 mV/s in 1M KOH solution of pH 13. Prior to recording LSV, the electrode was conditioned by cycling the potential between 0.5 and 1.5 V for several cycles until reproducible voltammograms were achieved.

## III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Cyclic voltammetry was applied to probe the reduction potentials of Fe (II), Ni (II), Co (II), and Zn (II) in  $0.5M\ H_3BO_3 + 0.1M\ Li_2SO_4$ . Their reduction potentials at  $100\ mV/s$  were noticed at -1.19, -1.15,

<span id="page-3-0"></span>1.12, and 1.18 V, respectively, vs Ag/AgCl (3M KCl). These values that are consistent with the literature reported values[23–29](#page-9-0) were used for electrodeposition of these metals over the electrode surface.

Electrodeposition of the film as accomplished through CPE on the substrate is affected by various factors such as deposition potential,

pH, and concentration of metals. The film morphology can be tuned by varying the deposition potential values as the elemental concentration of the reduced metals in the film varies linearly with applied potential. Figures 1(a)–1(e) show the electrodeposition of the tetrametallic catalyst by CA in different media.[30–36](#page-9-0) The acidic medium

FIG. 1. In situ deposition of Co–Ni–Fe–Zn in (a) 1M KOH of pH 14, (b) 0.5M H3BO3, (c) 0.5M H3BO3 þ 0.1M Na2SO4, (d) C6H8O7 of pH 4, and (e) 0.5M H3BO3 þ 0.1M Na2SO4 as supporting electrolytes at different values of deposition potentials for a deposition time of 900 s.

containing 0.5M H3BO3 along with 0.1M Li2SO4 was found to be the best for electrodepositing metals on the FTO surface. Due to the small size with high charge density, lithium ions move faster toward the FTO surface, which results in a stable and durable film formation. Thus, [Fig. 1](#page-3-0) shows successful deposition of metals onto the bare FTO in acidic media. However, in basic media, precipitates in the form of OH ions may hinder the diffusion of metal ions toward the electrode surface and hence prohibit successful electrodeposition as evident from the lower current density values.

From CPE results, it was concluded that a thin and stable film is established in an acidic medium containing 0.5M H3BO3 coupled with 0.1M Li2SO4. The FTO surfaces were modified with individual and combinations of metals to obtain different surfaces, which were characterized by XRD, SEM, and EDX. XRD analysis was carried out directly on the modified electrode to determine the physical characteristics, composition, and structure of the tetrametallic electrocatalyst film. Deposition of the respective metals was simultaneously confirmed by comparing their XRD peaks with the XRD peaks for the individual metals. The surface porosity of the catalyst film was investigated via SEM analysis, which is important for evaluating and establishing the performance of the OER catalyst. The elemental analysis of the catalyst film was performed via EDX.

The XRD pattern evidenced the presence of all four metals deposited on the FTO as shown in Fig. 2. In addition to signals appearing from the components of bare FTO, specific peaks appearing for the modified FTO ensured the presence of the respective four metals, i.e., Fe, Zn, Co, and Ni. Hence, the signal appearing at 33 for the tetrametallic modified film ensures the presence of Fe deposited on FTO, which matches with a similar peak in XRD of iron alone. A peak for Zn in the tetrametallic case also appears in the same region as that of the characteristic peaks for Zn at the bare FTO at 38. Similarly, 42.5 and 76 peaks correspond to cobalt and nickel deposition on the FTO substrate. When the XRD pattern of individual metals was compared with the XRD pattern of the tetrametallic film, matching peaks were found, thus confirming the deposition of all four metals on the FTO surface[.23,29–32,37](#page-9-0),[38](#page-9-0) The presence of oxygen in the XRD patterns suggest that the deposits are most likely oxides of the respective metals.

SEM images of the modified FTO were compared with those of the bare FTO surface. Each image shows that the catalyst is uniformly

FIG. 2. XRD pattern of the tetrametallic (Fe–Ni–Zn–Co) electrocatalyst film coated on FTO in an acidic medium (0.5M H3BO3 þ 0.1M Li2SO4, pH ¼ 4.5) at 1.5 V.

FIG. 3. SEM micrograph of the FTO surface modified with Fe–Co–Ni–Zn.

distributed over the FTO surface. The SEM images of the FTO surface containing nickel, iron, and zinc showed porosity, while the FTO surface containing a cobalt metal offered evidence of compactness of the material when compared to the unmodified FTO surface.[39](#page-9-0)[–41](#page-10-0) Figure 3 shows the surface morphology of the designed catalyst film. Elaborate flower like structures are evident from SEM micrographs. The flower like morphology is expected to help in trapping O2 produced during water oxidation, thus resulting in higher OER efficiency of the designed catalyst.

EDX analysis was performed to analyze the presence of all four metals deposited over the FTO surface. Figure 4 demonstrates the

FIG. 5. LSVs of the tetrametallic catalyst modified FTO recorded at a scan rate of 10 mV/s in 1M KOH using the electrocatalyst grown over the FTO surface in (a) H3BO3 þ Li2SO4, (b) KOH of pH 14, (c) H3BO3, (d) H3BO3 þ Na2SO4, and (e) C6H8O7 (f) KOH of pH 9.

EDX results of the tetrametallic catalyst film developed in acidic solution containing boric acid þ lithium sulfate at a deposition potential of 1.5 V. The results of EDX confirm the successful deposition of the respective metals, Co, Ni, Fe, and Zn at the surface of the FTO.

The modified FTO was then subjected to linear sweep voltammetry to evaluate its OER activity in different electrolytic media. Figure 5 demonstrates the LSVs recorded at FTO modified with the tetrametallic catalyst in 1M KOH at a scan rate of 10 mV/s using FTO with an electrocatalyst grown in media of different supporting electrolytes.

FIG. 4. EDX of FTO modified via electrodeposition of Fe–Zn–Ni–Co.

**FIG. 6.** LSV for the effect of the metal ion concentration in Co–Ni–Fe–Zn electrode-posited over the surface of FTO at  $-1.5\,\mathrm{V}$  in  $0.5\mathrm{M}$  H<sub>3</sub>BO<sub>3</sub> +  $0.1\mathrm{M}$  Li<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>.

From LSVs, it can be seen that the catalyst film deposited from 0.5M  ${\rm H_3BO_3}+0.1~{\rm Li_2SO_4}$  has the best catalytic performance in the context of high current density of about 85 mA/cm² at a very low value of onset potential [1.32 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)] as compared to the LSV results of the modified film grown in other media. The potentials were measured with respect to Ag/AgCl (3M KCl) and converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale according to the following equation:  $E_{RHE}=E_{\rm Ag/AgCl}+0.0591~{\rm pH}+E_{\rm Ag/AgCl}^{\circ}$ . The overpotential was evaluated from the relation  $\eta=V_{app}-iR-E_{pH}$ , where i denotes the stable current, R the uncompensated resistance (measured with the help of impedance spectroscopy for both modified and bare FTO),  $V_{app}$  the applied potential vs RHE, and

 $E_{pH}$  the thermodynamic potential for water oxidation at the pH of the solution of interest ( $E_{pH}$  = 1.23 V - 0.059 pH V vs RHE).

Figure 6 shows the variation in current and the onset potential values by varying the concentrations of metals ions. By increasing the concentration of metal ions up to a certain limit, the current value increases. An optimum value of the concentration of metal ions at high current values was chosen for further experiments. With the increase in the concentration of the catalyst, the rate of reaction was found to increase by lowering the kinetic energy barrier without changing the reaction equilibrium. An increase in the rate of reaction corresponds to a faster electron transfer rate at higher concentrations of metal ions. However, after a certain limit, the FTO surface becomes saturated, and no more increase in current density is observed.

The catalytic performance of all bimetallic and trimetallic combinations toward water splitting was found to be less than that of the tetrametallic combinations of the selected four metals  $^{39-41}$  as shown in Fig. 7. The catalytic performance of electrocatalysts based on different combinations of metals (Co, Ni, Fe, and Zn) on the FTO surface for OER catalysis is summarized in Table I. An observation of the overpotential values suggests improvement in catalyst performance owing to the synergetic effect of the combined four metals grown in boric acid and lithium sulfate media via CPE at  $-1.5\,\mathrm{V}$ . Thus, the electrochemically designed hybrid catalyst of four metals accelerates OER at the lowest ever reported overpotential, even surpassing the state of the art noble metal based electrocatalysts.

Figure 8(a) shows the LSV curves for Trion X-100 used as a binder to anchor the metal catalyst more efficiently on the FTO surface. On the contrary, it was found to inhibit the catalytic activity that is reflected by a low current and a high onset potential value by blocking the active sites of the catalyst film. Similar behavior was observed for other binders such as sodium dodecyl sulfate and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide. The catalyst without a binder was found to demonstrate the efficient catalytic role as indicated by higher current and a lower value of onset potential.

FIG. 7. LSV of the modified FTO in 1M KOH at a scan rate of 10 mV/s of different combinations of (a) a bimetallic electrocatalyst and (b) a trimetallic electrocatalyst fabricated in H<sub>3</sub>BO<sub>3</sub> + Li<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> at -1.5 V.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>TABLE I. OER catalytic activity with respect to onset potential, overpotential, and current density of various electrocatalyst films over the FTO surface.

| Metals combinations | Onset (V) vs Ag/AgCl | Onset (V) vs NHE | Over potential, $\eta$ (V) | j (A/cm <sup>2</sup> ) |  |
|---------------------|----------------------|------------------|----------------------------|------------------------|--|
| Fe-Co               | 0.65                 | 1.623            | 0.393                      | 0.0435                 |  |
| Ni-Co               | 0.48                 | 1.453            | 0.223                      | 0.0501                 |  |
| Ni-Fe               | 0.62                 | 1.593            | 0.363                      | 0.0407                 |  |
| Zn-Co               | 0.56                 | 1.533            | 0.303                      | 0.0369                 |  |
| Zn-Fe               | 0.67                 | 1.643            | 0.413                      | 0.0348                 |  |
| Zn-Ni               | 0.45                 | 1.423            | 0.193                      | 0.0318                 |  |
| Ni-Fe-Co            | 0.60                 | 1.537            | 0.307                      | 0.0621                 |  |
| Ni-Zn-Co            | 0.43                 | 1.403            | 0.173                      | 0.0583                 |  |
| Ni-Zn-Fe            | 0.49                 | 1.463            | 0.233                      | 0.0596                 |  |
| Zn-Fe-Co            | 0.56                 | 1.533            | 0.303                      | 0.0503                 |  |
| Fe-Zn-Ni-Co         | 0.315                | 1.288            | 0.090                      | 0.0906                 |  |

The stability of the synthesized catalyst was examined from the chronopotentiometric response recorded at a constant current density of  $50\,\mathrm{mA~cm^{-2}}$ . These results revealed that the composite needs almost an unchanged potential of  $1.82\,\mathrm{V}$  at  $50\,\mathrm{mA~cm^{-2}}$  for  $48\,\mathrm{h}$ . Thus, our stable and efficient catalyst is a promising addition to the list of catalysts suitable for renewable fuel production and applications.

The Tafel plot [Fig. 8(b)] was used to further assess the catalytic activity of the electrocatalyst film formed at the FTO surface by relating the current density (j) to the overpotential ( $\eta$ ) and yielded a low Tafel slope of 156 mV/dec with the mechanism as depicted in Refs. 21 and 42. The overpotential is expressed as  $\eta = Vapp - 1.23$  V, where Vapp is the applied potential vs a Normal Hydrogen Electrode (NHE) and 1.23 V is the thermodynamic potential for the oxidation of water at the pH of the solution of interest. Hence, in order to determine Vapp, the following equation was used: Vapp vs NHE = V vs Ag/AgCl + 0.059\* pH + V vs NHE. The designed tetrametallic electrocatalyst fashioned over the FTO surface generated a current density of 10 mA/cm² at an applied potential Vapp of only 1.32 V. This value has not been so far reported in relation to the OER electrocatalyst for water oxidation reactions. As is

evident from the values listed in Table II, our designed electrocatalyst excels all the catalysts reported for accelerating OER. <sup>39,41–57</sup>

#### IV. CONCLUSION

The development of a cost affordable, efficient, stable, and environmentally friendly water splitting electrocatalyst is important for addressing the key challenges for clean energy generation. An efficient novel and stable hybrid tetrametallic (Co–Ni–Fe–Zn) electrocatalyst of comparatively cheaper metals was designed for water electrolysis via a facile and cost affordable method in contrast to catalysts prepared from precious metals. The solution containing boric acid and lithium sulfate was found as the best medium for the electrodeposition of a film of the tetrametallic catalyst on the FTO surface. Successful deposition of metals on the FTO surface was ensured from the results of XRD, SEM, and EDX. Modified FTO was found to demonstrate the best water splitting response in a basic medium of pH 13. The results of linear sweep voltammetry revealed that a current density of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> demands an overpotential of just 90 mV, thus suggesting the best OER performance compared to all

FIG. 8. (a) A comparison in the LSV response (at 10 mV/s) of water oxidation at the bare FTO and designed catalyst modified FTO in the absence and presence of the modifier and (b) Tafel plot.

Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy

<span id="page-8-0"></span>TABLE II.Comparison of the designed electrocatalyst with various heterogeneous electrocatalysts for OER catalysis.

| ly<br>Ca<br>ta<br>st                                                                                              | he<br>ho<br>d<br>Sy<br>sis<br>/m<br>nt<br>et                                                                                                                                                                                     | lec<br>ly<br>E<br>tro<br>te                   | (m<br>V<br>at<br>g<br>2<br>)<br>mA<br>/cm<br>10 | On<br>set<br>l<br>(<br>)<br>nti<br>V<br>ote<br>p<br>a | fe<br>l s<br>lop<br>Ta<br>e<br>(m<br>de<br>)<br>V/<br>c | bi<br>lity<br>Sta                                                                                                | fer<br>Re<br>en<br>ces   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Ni<br>–F<br>Co<br>Se4<br>e–<br>3–                                                                                 | bin<br>l e<br>lec<br>de<br>Co<br>ria<br>osi<br>tio<br>ato<br>tro<br>m<br>p<br>n                                                                                                                                                  | 0.3<br>M<br>KO<br>H                           | 23<br>0                                         | 1.4<br>1                                              | 41<br>.7                                                | l<br>len<br>h<br>Ex<br>8<br>t<br>><br>ce                                                                         | 40                       |
| s C<br>O4<br>Po<br>rou<br>o3<br>les<br>(<br>)<br>Na<br>ic<br>NP<br>art<br>no<br>p<br>s                            | he<br>d t<br>he<br>l a<br>lin<br>W<br>mi<br>et<br>str<br>c<br>y<br>an<br>rm<br>a<br>nn<br>ea<br>g                                                                                                                                | KO<br>1M<br>H                                 | 52<br>3                                         | 1.5<br>14                                             | 71                                                      | Go<br>d a<br>t 1<br>40<br>mi<br>o<br>n                                                                           | 43                       |
| Co<br>O4<br>Mn<br>d<br>3<br>x<br>x                                                                                | l<br>f-t<br>lat<br>Se<br>ing<br>em<br>p                                                                                                                                                                                          | KO<br>0.1<br>M<br>H                           | 35<br>0                                         | 1.5<br>2                                              | 92                                                      | d a<br>h<br>Go<br>5<br>t<br>o                                                                                    | 44                       |
| be<br>d<br>de<br>d<br>Co<br>O4<br>me<br>so-<br>e<br>m<br>3<br>Au<br>NP<br>s                                       | ho<br>d<br>Na<br>tin<br>t<br>no<br>cas<br>g<br>me                                                                                                                                                                                | 0.1<br>M<br>KO<br>H                           | 0<br>44                                         | 1.5<br>3                                              | 46                                                      | l<br>len<br>Ex<br>t 2<br>00<br>0<br>t a<br>ce<br>l c<br>les<br>nti<br>ote<br>p<br>a<br>c<br>y                    | 45                       |
| -do<br>d m<br>Fe<br>-C<br>O4<br>p<br>e<br>eso<br>o3                                                               | ho<br>d<br>Na<br>tin<br>t<br>no<br>cas<br>g<br>me                                                                                                                                                                                | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 38<br>0                                         | 1.5<br>2                                              | 60                                                      | l<br>len<br>h a<br>d<br>Ex<br>t 3<br>3<br>t a<br>ce<br>n<br>l c<br>les<br>nti<br>45<br>0 p<br>ote<br>a<br>c<br>y | 46                       |
| Po<br>s 1<br>-D<br>Ni<br>Co<br>O4<br>rou<br>2<br>wi<br>na<br>no<br>res                                            | dro<br>he<br>l a<br>d t<br>he<br>l a<br>lin<br>Hy<br>t<br>rm<br>a<br>n<br>rm<br>a<br>nn<br>ea<br>g                                                                                                                               | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 46<br>0                                         | 1.5<br>2                                              | 90                                                      | h<br>Gr<br>10<br>eat<br>>                                                                                        | 47                       |
| he<br>Ni<br>Co<br>LD<br>H<br>ets<br>na<br>no<br>s                                                                 | lvo<br>he<br>l<br>So<br>t<br>rm<br>a                                                                                                                                                                                             | 0.1<br>M<br>KO<br>H                           | 42<br>0                                         | 1.5<br>2                                              | 11<br>3                                                 | d a<br>Go<br>t 4<br>00<br>0 s<br>o                                                                               | 48                       |
| du<br>d<br>Zn<br>Co<br>H/<br>LD<br>re<br>ce<br>he<br>de<br>i<br>g<br>rap<br>ne<br>ox                              | ho<br>d<br>Co<br>ip<br>ita<br>tio<br>et<br>-p<br>rec<br>n m                                                                                                                                                                      | KO<br>0.1<br>M<br>H                           | 43<br>0                                         | 1.5<br>6                                              | 73                                                      | d a<br>Go<br>t 1<br>0 0<br>00<br>o<br>s                                                                          | 49                       |
| Ni<br>Fe<br>Co<br>LD<br>H                                                                                         | dro<br>he<br>l<br>Hy<br>t<br>rm<br>a                                                                                                                                                                                             | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 22<br>0                                         | 1.4<br>4                                              | 42                                                      | for<br>h<br>Gr<br>11<br>eat                                                                                      | 50                       |
| de<br>Ni<br>–F<br>xi<br>e o                                                                                       | h<br>he<br>Co<br>ip<br>ita<br>tio<br>it<br>at<br>tre<br>atm<br>t<br>-p<br>rec<br>n w<br>en<br>lev<br>d t<br>at<br>ate<br>tur<br>e<br>em<br>p<br>era<br>es                                                                        | 0.1<br>M<br>KO<br>H                           | 32<br>8                                         | 1.4                                                   | 42                                                      | d a<br>h<br>Im<br>t 1<br>2<br>p<br>rov<br>e                                                                      | 51                       |
| Ni<br>Fe<br>LD<br>H                                                                                               | dro<br>he<br>l<br>Hy<br>t<br>rm<br>a                                                                                                                                                                                             | 0.1<br>M<br>KO<br>H                           | 28<br>0 a<br>t<br>2<br>mA<br>/cm<br>30          | 1.4<br>6                                              | 50                                                      | l<br>len<br>for<br>h<br>Ex<br>10<br>t<br>ce                                                                      | 52                       |
| foi<br>l<br>Fe<br>Ni<br>n F<br>eN<br>i<br>o<br>4.34                                                               | h o<br>f N<br>hr<br>h c<br>lci<br>On<br>Ps<br>tep<br>t<br>t<br>e s<br>g<br>row<br>ou<br>g<br>a<br><br>hig<br>h<br>tio<br>t<br>na<br>n a<br>he<br>e i<br>NH<br>iro<br>tem<br>tur<br>n t<br>t<br>p<br>era<br>3 e<br>nv<br>nm<br>en | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 28<br>3                                         | 1.4<br>7                                              | 53                                                      | l<br>len<br>Ex<br>t 1<br>00<br>0<br>t a<br>ce<br>l c<br>les<br>nti<br>ote<br>p<br>a<br>y<br>c                    | 53                       |
| Ni<br>Fe<br>Co<br>Ce<br>Ox<br>/<br>GC<br>0.3<br>0.07<br>0.2<br>0.43                                               | h r<br>lut<br>k j<br>ho<br>d/<br>Hi<br>ion<br>in<br>et<br>t<br>g<br>eso<br>me<br>lec<br>de<br>osi<br>tio<br>tro<br>e<br>p<br>n                                                                                                   | 1M<br>Na<br>OH                                | 31<br>0                                         | …                                                     | 40                                                      | l<br>len<br>h<br>Ex<br>t 1<br>00<br>t a<br>ce                                                                    | 54                       |
| do<br>d p<br>Ni<br>Fe<br>-N<br>p<br>e<br>oro<br>us<br>lot<br>h<br>C<br>C<br>on<br>c                               | l a<br>d e<br>hin<br>Me<br>ssi<br>ta<br>ste<br>tc<br>g<br>p<br>roc<br>ess                                                                                                                                                        | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 29<br>7                                         | 1<br>.5                                               | 84                                                      | l<br>len<br>for<br>h<br>Ex<br>20<br>t<br>ce                                                                      | 55                       |
| lat<br>d i<br>Fe<br>Co<br>Ni<br>en<br>cap<br>su<br>e<br>n<br>he<br>g<br>rap<br>ne                                 | lin<br>f<br>di<br>f<br>fer<br>l<br>Di<br>t M<br>t a<br>eta<br>rec<br>nn<br>ea<br>g<br>o<br>en<br>ks<br>(<br>)<br>Or<br>ic<br>Fra<br>M<br>OF<br>g<br>an<br>me<br>wo<br>r<br>s                                                     | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 28<br>8                                         | 1.4<br>5                                              | 60                                                      | l<br>len<br>les<br>Ex<br>t 1<br>0 0<br>00<br>t a<br>ce<br>cy<br>c                                                | 17                       |
| (<br>)<br>Ni<br>Fe<br>wi<br>SW<br>-st<br>ep<br>se<br>lec<br>de<br>d<br>f<br>i<br>lm<br>osi<br>tro<br>te<br>e<br>p | ho<br>dic<br>lec<br>ly<br>fo<br>l<br>low<br>d<br>by<br>Ca<br>sis<br>CV<br>t<br>tro<br>e<br>e<br>de<br>osi<br>tio<br>p<br>n                                                                                                       | bu<br>f<br>fer<br>0.1<br>M<br>eta<br>te<br>ac | 32<br>9                                         | 1.4<br>7                                              | 38<br>.9                                                | d<br>for<br>h<br>Ve<br>24<br>ry<br>g<br>oo                                                                       | 56                       |
| ba<br>d<br>Zn<br>M<br>OF<br>Co<br>Se2<br>se<br>he<br>Na<br>et<br>no<br>s                                          | Te<br>lat<br>d t<br>he<br>l a<br>lin<br>ing<br>mp<br>an<br>rm<br>a<br>nn<br>ea<br>g                                                                                                                                              | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 35<br>6                                         | …                                                     | 88                                                      | l<br>len<br>for<br>h<br>Ex<br>14<br>t<br>ce                                                                      | 57                       |
| Zn<br>Co<br>–N<br>i–F<br>in<br>e–                                                                                 | lec<br>de<br>ho<br>d<br>E<br>osi<br>tio<br>tro<br>et<br>p<br>n m                                                                                                                                                                 | 1M<br>KO<br>H                                 | 90<br>mV                                        | 1.2<br>8                                              | 15<br>6                                                 | d a<br>Go<br>t 9<br>00<br>o<br>s                                                                                 | T<br>his<br>k<br>wo<br>r |

<span id="page-9-0"></span>OER catalysts reported so far. The designed catalyst catalyzed OER more efficiently without a binder because the binder was found to block the active sites of the catalytic film and thus compromised the conductivity and performance of the catalyst. These desired features of the electrochemically grown catalyst over the surface of the electrode point to its suitability for use in the development of industrial alkaline water electrolysers.

#### **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

We acknowledge the support of Quaid-i-Azam University and Higher Education Commission of Pakistan.

The authors declare no competing interest.

#### **REFERENCES**

- <sup>1</sup>S. Chu and A. Majumdar, "Opportunities and challenges for a sustainable energy future," Nature 488(7411), 294–303 (2012).
- <sup>2</sup>A. K. Hussein, "Applications of nanotechnology in renewable energies—A comprehensive overview and understanding," Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 42, 460–476 (2015).
- J. Chen, D. Yang, D. Song, J. Jiang, A. Ma, M. Z. Hu, and C. Ni, "Recent progress in enhancing solar-to-hydrogen efficiency," J. Power Sources 280, 649–666 (2015).
   K. Mazloomi and C. Gomes, "Hydrogen as an energy carrier: Prospects and
- challenges," Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 16(5), 3024–3033 (2012).

  5H. Ibrahim, A. Ilinca, and J. Perron, "Energy storage systems—Characteristics

  10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 1
- and comparisons," Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 12(5), 1221–1250 (2008).
- <sup>6</sup>D. A. Rand, "A journey on the electrochemical road to sustainability," J. Solid State Electrochem. **15**(7–8), 1579–1622 (2011).
- <sup>7</sup>A. Veziroglu and R. Macario, "Fuel cell vehicles: State of the art with economic and environmental concerns," Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 36(1), 25–43 (2011).
- <sup>8</sup>R. Frydendal, E. A. Paoli, B. P. Knudsen, B. Wickman, P. Malacrida, I. E. Stephens, and I. Chorkendorff, "Benchmarking the stability of oxygen evolution reaction catalysts: The importance of monitoring mass losses," <a href="https://chemElectroChem1">ChemElectroChem1</a>(12), 2075–2081 (2014).
- <sup>9</sup>T. Reier, M. Oezaslan, and P. Strasser, "Electrocatalytic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) on Ru, Ir, and Pt catalysts: A comparative study of nanoparticles and bulk materials," ACS Catal. 2(8), 1765–1772 (2012).
- $^{10}$  R. Kötz, H. Lewerenz, and S. Stucki, "XPS studies of oxygen evolution on Ru and RuO2 anodes," J. Electrochem. Soc. 130(4), 825–829 (1983).
- <sup>11</sup>I. Katsounaros, S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin, and K. J. Mayrhofer, "Oxygen electrochemistry as a cornerstone for sustainable energy conversion," Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 53(1), 102–121 (2014).
- <sup>12</sup>R. Solmaz, A. Döner, and G. Kardaş, "The stability of hydrogen evolution activity and corrosion behavior of NiCu coatings with long-term electrolysis in alkaline solution," Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 34(5), 2089–2094 (2009).
- <sup>13</sup>R. Solmaz and G. Kardaş, "Electrochemical deposition and characterization of NiFe coatings as electrocatalytic materials for alkaline water electrolysis," Electrochim. Acta 54(14), 3726–3734 (2009).
- <sup>14</sup>R. A. Santana, S. Prasad, E. S. Moura, A. R. Campos, G. P. Silva, and P. Lima-Neto, "Studies on electrodeposition of corrosion resistant Ni–Fe–Mo alloy," J. Mater. Sci. 42(7), 2290–2296 (2007).
- <sup>15</sup>M. Jafarian, O. Azizi, F. Gobal, and M. Mahjani, "Kinetics and electrocatalytic behavior of nanocrystalline CoNiFe alloy in hydrogen evolution reaction," Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 32(12), 1686–1693 (2007).
- 16 M. Gong and H. Dai, "A mini review of NiFe-based materials as highly active oxygen evolution reaction electrocatalysts," Nano Res. 8(1), 23–39 (2015).
- 17Y. Yang, Z. Lin, S. Gao, J. Su, Z. Lun, G. Xia, J. Chen, R. Zhang, and Q. Chen, "Tuning electronic structures of nonprecious ternary alloys encapsulated in graphene layers for optimizing overall water splitting activity," ACS Catal. 7(1), 469–479 (2017).
- <sup>18</sup>O. Diaz-Morales, I. Ledezma-Yanez, M. T. M. Koper, and F. Calle-Vallejo, "Guidelines for the rational design of Ni-based double hydroxide electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction," ACS Catal. 5(9), 5380–5387 (2015).

- <sup>19</sup>B. M. Hunter, H. B. Gray, and A. M. Müller, "Earth-abundant heterogeneous water oxidation catalysts," Chem. Rev. 116(22), 14120–14136 (2016).
- 20S. Xiong, P. Li, Z. Jin, T. Gao, Y. Wang, Y. Guo, and D. Xiao, "Enhanced catalytic performance of ZnO-CoOx electrode generated from electrochemical corrosion of Co-Zn alloy for oxygen evolution reaction," Electrochim. Acta 222, 999–1006 (2016).
- <sup>21</sup>N.-T. Suen, S.-F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y.-J. Xu, and H. M. Chen, "Electrocatalysis for the oxygen evolution reaction: Recent development and future perspectives," Chem. Soc. Rev. 46, 337–365 (2017).
- <sup>22</sup>J. Wang, L. Ji, and Z. Chen, "In situ rapid formation of a nickel-iron-based electrocatalyst for water oxidation," ACS Catal. 6(10), 6987–6992 (2016).
- <sup>23</sup>A. Aldalbahi, E. Mkawi, K. Ibrahim, and M. Farrukh, "Effect of sulfurization time on the properties of copper zinc tin sulfide thin films grown by electrochemical deposition," Sci. Rep. 6, 32431 (2016).
- <sup>24</sup>A. Irshad and N. Munichandraiah, "Electrodeposited nickel-cobalt-sulfide catalyst for the hydrogen evolution reaction," ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9(23), 19746–19755 (2017).
- <sup>25</sup>G. Nemţoi, H. Chiriac, O. Dragoş, M.-O. Apostu, and D. Lutic, "The voltammetric characterization of the electrodeposition of cobalt, nickel and iron on gold disk electrode," Acta Chem. Iasi 17, 151–168 (2009).
- gold disk electrode," Acta Chem. Iasi 17, 151–168 (2009).

  26 L. J. Brogan, "Electrochemistry of FeSO<sub>4</sub>-Na<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> and CuSO<sub>4</sub>-Na<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> systems for template-assisted nanowire synthesis," Ph.D. dissertation (UC Berkeley, 2011).
- <sup>27</sup>R. Solmaz and B. D. Karahan, "Characterization and corrosion studies of ternary Zn-Ni-Sn alloys," Int. J. Minerals, Metall. Mater. 27(1), 74-82 (2020).
- <sup>28</sup>M. R. Khelladi, L. Mentar, M. Boubatra, and A. Azizi, "Study of nucleation and growth process of electrochemically synthesized ZnO nanostructures," <u>Mater. Lett.</u> 67(1), 331–333 (2012).
- <sup>29</sup>M. Blanco, J. T. C. Barragan, N. Barelli, R. D. Noce, C. S. Fugivara, J. Fernández, and A. V. Benedetti, "On the electrochemical behavior of Cu–16%Zn–6.5%Al alloy containing the β′-phase (martensite) in borate buffer," Electrochim. Acta 107, 238–247 (2013).
- <sup>30</sup>J. C. Ballesteros, C. Gómez-Solís, L. M. Torres-Martínez, and I. Juárez-Ramírez, "Electrodeposition of Cu-Zn intermetallic compounds for its application as electrocatalyst in the hydrogen evolution reaction," Int. J. Electrochem. Sci. 10, 2892–2903 (2015).
- <sup>31</sup>L. Mentar, "A study of the electrodeposition of Co-Cu alloys thin films on FTO substrate," Ionics 18(1), 223–229 (2012).
- <sup>32</sup>A. Redjechta, K. Loucif, L. Mentar, M. R. Khelladi, and A. Beniaiche, "Electrodeposition and characterization of Cu-Zn alloy films obtained from a sulfate bath," Mater. Technol. 48(2), 221–226 (2014).
- <sup>33</sup>V. Torabinejad, M. Aliofkhazraei, S. Assareh, M. H. Allahyarzadeh, and A. S. Rouhaghdam, "Electrodeposition of Ni-Fe alloys, composites, and nano coatings—A review," J. Alloys Compd. 691, 841–859 (2017).
- 34S. A. Silkin, A. V. Gotelyak, N. I. Tsyntsaru, and A. I. Dikusar, "Electrodeposition of alloys of the iron group metals with tungsten from citrate and gluconate solutions: Size effect of microhardness," Surf. Eng. Appl. Electrochem. 53(1), 7–14 (2017).
- 35X. Geng, E. Navarrete, W. Liang, and E. J. Podlaha, "Electrodeposited Fe-Mo-Ni nanowires and Cu-Mo-Fe-Ni alloy nanowire segments," Mater. Lett. 211, 9–12 (2018).
- 36V. S. Kublanovsky and Y. S. Yapontseva, "Electrocatalytic properties of Co-Mo alloys electrodeposited from a citrate-pyrophosphate electrolyte," Electrocatalysis 5(4), 372–378 (2014).
- 37P. Y. Chen, M. C. Lin, and I. W. Sun, "Electrodeposition of Cu-Zn alloy from a Lewis acidic ZnC<sub>12</sub>—EMIC molten salt," J. Electrochem. Soc. 147(9), 3350–3355 (2000).
- <sup>38</sup>X. Xu, P. Du, Z. Chen, and M. Huang, "An electrodeposited cobalt-selenide-based film as an efficient bifunctional electrocatalyst for full water splitting," J. Mater. Chem. A 4(28), 10933–10939 (2016).
- 39). Yao, K. Zhang, W. Wang, X. Zuo, Q. Yang, H. Tang, M. Wu, and G. Li, "Remarkable enhancement in the photoelectric performance of uniform flower-like mesoporous Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> wrapped in nitrogen-doped graphene networks," ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 10(23), 19564–19572 (2018).
- <sup>40</sup>X. Cao, Y. Hong, N. Zhang, Q. Chen, J. Masud, M. A. Zaeem, and M. Nath, "Phase Exploration and identification of multinary transition-metal selenides

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>as high-efficiency oxygen evolution electrocatalysts through combinatorial
- electrodeposition," [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b01977) <sup>8</sup>(9), 8273–8289 (2018). <sup>41</sup>E. J. Popczun, J. R. McKone, C. G. Read, A. J. Biacchi, A. M. Wiltrout, N. S. Lewis, and R. E. Schaak, "Nanostructured nickel phosphide as an electrocatalyst
- for the hydrogen evolution reaction," [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja403440e) <sup>135</sup>, 9267–9270 (2013). <sup>42</sup>S. Chen, J. Duan, M. Jaroniec, and S. Z. Qiao, "Nitrogen and oxygen dualdoped carbon hydrogel film as a substrate-free electrode for highly efficient
- oxygen evolution reaction," [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201305608) <sup>26</sup>, 2925–2930 (2014). <sup>43</sup>X. Zhou, Z. Xia, Z. Tian, Y. Ma, and Y. Qu, "Ultrathin porous Co3 O4 nanoplates as highly efficient oxygen evolution catalysts," [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA07214F) 3,
- 8107–8114 (2015). <sup>44</sup>T. Y. Ma, S. Dai, M. Jaroniec, and S. Z. Qiao, "Synthesis of highly active and stable spinel-type oxygen evolution electrocatalysts by a rapid inorganic self-
- templating method," [Chemistry](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201403946) <sup>20</sup>, 12669–12676 (2014). <sup>45</sup>X. Lu, Y. H. Ng, and C. Zhao, "Gold nanoparticles embedded within mesoporous cobalt oxide enhance electrochemical oxygen evolution," [ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201300975)
- <sup>7</sup>, 82–86 (2014). <sup>46</sup>C. Xiao, X. Lu, and C. Zhao, "Unusual synergistic effects upon incorporation of Fe and/or Ni into mesoporous Co3O4 for enhanced oxygen evolution," [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC04922E)
- [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC04922E) <sup>50</sup>, 10122–10125 (2014). <sup>47</sup>X. Yu, Z. Sun, Z. Yan, B. Xiang, X. Liu, and P. Du, "Direct growth of porous crystalline NiCo2O4 nanowire arrays on a conductive electrode for highperformance electrocatalytic water oxidation," [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA05315J) 2(48),
- 20823–20831 (2014). <sup>48</sup>J. Jiang, A. Zhang, L. Li, and L. Ai, "Nickel–cobalt layered double hydroxide nanosheets as high-performance electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction,"
- [J. Power Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.12.085) <sup>278</sup>, 445–451 (2015). <sup>49</sup>D. Tang, Y. Han, W. Ji, S. Qiao, X. Zhou, R. Liu, X. Han, H. Huang, Y. Liu, and Z. Kang, "A high-performance reduced graphene oxide/ZnCo layered double

- hydroxide electrocatalyst for efficient water oxidation," [Dalton Trans.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4DT01924E) 43,
- 15119–15125 (2014). <sup>50</sup>X. Long, S. Xiao, Z. Wang, X. Zheng, and S. Yang, "Co intake mediated formation of ultrathin nanosheets of transition metal LDH—An advanced electroca-
- talyst for oxygen evolution reaction," [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC08856E) <sup>51</sup>, 1120–1123 (2015). <sup>51</sup>J. Qi, W. Zhang, R. Xiang, K. Liu, H. Y. Wang, M. Chen, Y. Han, and R. Cao, "Porous nickel–iron oxide as a highly efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen evolu-
- tion reaction," [Adv. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.201500199) <sup>2</sup>, 1500199 (2015). <sup>52</sup>Z. Lu, W. Xu, W. Zhu, Q. Yang, X. Lei, J. Liu, Y. Li, X. Sun, and X. Duan, "Three-dimensional NiFe layered double hydroxide film for high-efficiency
- oxygen evolution reaction," [Chem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CC01625D) <sup>50</sup>, 6479–6482 (2014). <sup>53</sup>U. Y. Qazi, C.-Z. Yuan, N. Ullah, Y.-F. Jiang, M. Imran, A. Zeb, S.-J. Zhao, R. Javaid, and A.-W. Xu, "One-step growth of iron–nickel bimetallic nanoparticles on FeNi alloy foils: Highly efficient advanced electrodes for the oxygen
- evolution reaction," [ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b08922) <sup>9</sup>, 28627–28634 (2017). <sup>54</sup>J. A. Haber, Y. Cai, S. Jung, C. Xiang, S. Mitrovic, J. Jin, A. T. Bell, and J. M. Gregoire, "Discovering Ce-rich oxygen evolution catalysts, from high throughput screening to water electrolysis," [Energy Environ. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C3EE43683G) 7, 682–688
- (2014). <sup>55</sup>Y. Zhang, X. Xia, X. Cao, B. Zhang, N. H. Tiep, H. He, S. Chen, Y. Huang, and H. J. Fan, "Ultrafine metal nanoparticles/N-doped porous carbon hybrids coated on carbon fibers as flexible and binder-free water splitting catalysts,"
- [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201700220) <sup>7</sup>, 1700220 (2017). <sup>56</sup>W. Zhang, Y. Wu, J. Qi, M. Chen, and R. Cao, "A thin NiFe hydroxide film formed by stepwise electrodeposition strategy with significantly improved cata-
- lytic water oxidation efficiency," [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201602547) <sup>7</sup>(9), 1602547 (2017). <sup>57</sup>Q. Dong, Q. Wang, Z. Dai, H. Qiu, and X. Dong, "MOF-derived Zn-doped CoSe2 as an efficient and stable free-standing catalyst for oxygen evolution reaction," [ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b10160) 8, 26902–26907 (2016).