---
source: Kuang 等 - 2024 - Sr‐Stabilized IrMnO2 Solid Solution Nano‐Electrocatalysts with Superior Activity and Exce.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 62.368s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:02:54.102090Z
---

# **Sr-Stabilized IrMnO2 Solid Solution Nano-Electrocatalysts with Superior Activity and Excellent Durability for Oxygen Evolution Reaction in Acid Media**

*Jianren Kuang, Binglu Deng, Zhongqing Jiang, Yongjie Wang, and Zhong-Jie Jiang\**

**The development of cost-effective catalysts for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in acidic media is of paramount importance. This work reports that Sr-doped solid solution structural ultrafine IrMnO2 nanoparticles (NPs) (≈1.56 nm) on the carbon nanotubes (Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs) are efficient catalysts for the acidic OER. Even with the Ir use dosage 3.5 times lower than that of the commercial IrO2, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs only need an overpotential of 236.0 mV to drive 10.0 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and show outstanding stability for** *>***400.0 h. Its Ir mass activity is 39.6 times higher than that of the IrO2 at 1.53 V. The solid solution and Sr-doping structure of Sr-IrMnO2 are the main origin of the high catalytic activity and excellent stability of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. The density function theory calculations indicate that the solid solution structure can promote strong electronic coupling between Ir and Mn, lowering the energy barrier of the OER rate-determining step. The Sr-doping can enhance the stability of Ir against the chemical corrosion and demetallation. Water electrolyzers and proton exchange membrane water electrolyzers assembled with the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs show superb performance and excellent durability in the acid media.**

J. Kuang, Z.-J. Jiang

Guangzhou Key Laboratory for Surface Chemistry of Energy Materials Guangdong Engineering and Technology Research Center for Surface Chemistry of Energy Materials

College of Environment and Energy South China University of Technology Guangzhou 510006, P. R. China

E-mail: [eszjiang@scut.edu.cn](mailto:eszjiang@scut.edu.cn)

B. Deng

School of Materials Science and Hydrogen Energy Foshan University

Foshan 528000, P. R. China

Z. Jiang

Key Laboratory of Optical Field Manipulation of Zhejiang Province

Department of Physics Zhejiang Sci-Tech University

Hangzhou 310018, P. R. China

Y. Wang

Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Semiconductor Optoelectronic Materials and Intelligent Photonic Systems

Harbin Institute of Technology

Shenzhen 518055, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202306934>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202306934**

## **1. Introduction**

Electrochemical water splitting using proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzers is an effective way for renewable, clean and sustainable production of hydrogen, a promising energy carrier with great potentials to replace traditional fossil fuels.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) The development of acid-stable cost-effective electrocatalysts to drive efficient oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is therefore of great importance because the sluggishness of OER occurring at the anode of the PEM electrolyzers is a key factor hindering the efficiency of water splitting due to the involvement of multiple proton-coupled electron transfer steps.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) This, however, remains a great challenge since most catalysts reported for the OER cannot survive in the harsh acidic oxidative environments of PEM water electrolyzers (PEMWEs).[\[3\]](#page-8-0) Currently, the benchmark catalysts used for the acidic OER are Ir-based materials.[\[4\]](#page-8-0) These catalysts, however, suffer from low catalytic activities and high costs, which

have imposed big constraints on the commercialization of the PEMWEs . In particular, the Ir-based catalysts still undergo severe electrode corrosion in the long-term utilization, although they are considered as one of the most stable catalysts for the acid OER.[\[5\]](#page-8-0) In this sense, developing the corrosion-resistance Irbased catalysts with improved OER activity in the acidic media is of great significance.

Generally, the activity of a catalyst is mainly dependent upon the electronic structure of the atoms at the active sites, which determines the adsorption/desorption of reactants, reaction intermediates, and products.[\[6\]](#page-8-0) According to the Sabatier's principle, an optimal catalyst is required to have the adsorption of reactants, reaction intermediates, and products neither too high nor too weak to drive the efficient catalytic processes.[\[7\]](#page-8-0) Tremendous efforts have therefore been devoted to modulating the electronic structure of the surface atoms to promote the intrinsic activities of the Ir-based catalysts. In particular, this can be realized by doping with alien atoms,[\[8\]](#page-8-0) introduction of vacancy defects,[\[9\]](#page-8-0) carbon integration,[\[9b\]](#page-8-0) heterostructuring,[\[10\]](#page-9-0) and so on. Expect for catalytic activities, the use dosage of Ir is another important factor influencing the practical applications of the Ir-based catalysts.[\[11\]](#page-9-0) Due to the scarcity of Ir in earth's crust and high cost, exploitation

www.advmat.de

521 4095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202306934 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons.

of Ir-based catalysts with the least amount of Ir yet high activity is highly desirable.<sup>[12]</sup> An effective way to reduce the use dosage of Ir is nanostructuring of the catalytic materials, which can facilitate the exposure of more Ir atoms available to the catalytic reactions. Indeed, the major challenge of the Ir-based catalysts for practical applications is their instabilities in harsh acidic oxidative environments. Generally, the instabilities are mainly caused by the demetallation of surface Ir atoms due to their overoxidation into dissolvable IrO<sub>3</sub> under the OER conditions,<sup>[13]</sup> which is more obvious when the Ir-based catalysts are in the nanometer scales. To this end, the stabilization of the surface Ir atoms against the demetallation is therefore of particular importance to enhance the practical applicability of the Ir-based catalysts in the acidic OER. Up to now, although much progress has been made on developing Ir-based catalysts with improved OER activities, these with integrated advantages of low Ir dosage, but high catalytic activities and excellent stabilities have less been reported. This necessitates the development of new approaches to simultaneously improve catalytic activities, decrease the Ir dosage, and enhance the long-term stability of the Ir-based catalysts.

In this work, we report a solid solution approach to effectively improve the catalytic activity and the long-term durability of the Ir-based catalysts but decrease the use dosage of Ir. Specifically, the Sr doped IrMnO2 solid solution ultrafine nanoparticles (NPs) with rich oxygen vacancy (Vo·) and an average size of 1.56 nm grown on carbon nanotubes (the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs) have been synthesized through the hydrothermal reaction of IrCl<sub>3</sub>, KMnO<sub>4</sub> and Sr(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> in the presence of the acid-treated CNTs. The solid solution structure makes the Mn and Sr in the lattice of IrMnO<sub>2</sub> uniformly mixed, allowing for optimization of the electronic structure of each Ir atom through the Ir-O-Mn bond. It enables all the Ir atoms at the surface of the Sr-IrMnO2 NPs to be active for the catalytic reactions. Additionally, the ultrafine nanostructure can help more Ir atoms exposed at the surface due to the increased surface-to volume ratio. The Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs show superior activity and outstanding stability for the OER in the acid media, although its use dosage of Ir is 3.5 times lower than the commercial IrO<sub>2</sub> (c-IrO<sub>2</sub>). In particular, its Ir mass activity is 39.6 times higher than the c-IrO<sub>2</sub>. No obvious drop in the activity can be observed when the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs are used in the acidic OER for > 400.0 h. The denisty funtional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the high catalytic activity and excellent durability of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs mainly originate from the solid solution and Sr-doping structure of Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>. The solid solution structure can promote the strong electronic coupling between Ir and Mn through the Ir-O-Mn bonds, lowering the energy barrier of the rate-determining step (RDS) of the OER. The Sr-doping can enhance the stability of Ir against chemical corrosion and increase the energy cost of the Ir demetallation. When used in water electrolyzers and the PEMWEs, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs show superb performance and excellent durability for water splitting in the acid media.

### 2. Result and Discussion

**Figure 1a** shows a typical TEM image of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs. It reveals that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs have a structure comprising the small-sized NPs grown on the CNTs. The average size of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs is  $\approx 1.56$  nm (Figure 1b), well suggesting

the formation of the ultrafine NPs. These NPs show a good crystallinity with the diffraction rings corresponding to Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> clearly observable in the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) image (Figure 1c). It is well in line with the XRD pattern in Figure 2a, which shows the diffraction peaks corresponding to the CNTs and the Sr-IrMnO2, respectively. Worth noting is that all the diffraction peaks assignable to the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs appear at the  $2\theta$  positions in between those of Rutile structure MnO<sub>2</sub> (PDF No. 071-4824) and Rutile structure IrO2 (PDF No. 086-0330). This observation gives a strong support that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs are the Sr doped solid solution of MnO<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub> in the Rutile structure with the P42/mnm space group. Based on the XRD pattern in Figure 2a, it is inferable that the conventional cell of the  $Sr-IrMnO_2$  solid solution has the lattice parameters of a = b= 4.52 Å and c = 2.75 Å. The result is in good agreement with that calculated based on the Vegard law,[14] where the relatively atomic ratio between Mn:Ir is ≈0.65:0.35 (based on the ICP-OES analysis in Table S1, Supporting Information). The TGA analysis indicates that the relative weight percentage of Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> in the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is 54.06 wt% (Figure S1, Supporting Informa-

Figure 1d shows that the growth of nano-crystalline ultrafine Sr-IrMnO2 particles on the CNTs can be clearly observed in the HAADF-STEM image of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. The magnification of individual Sr-IrMnO2 NP shows the lattice fringes corresponding to the (111) and (101) planes of the Rutile structure IrMnO<sub>2</sub>, respectively. These lattice fringes are well consistent with the atom stacking configurations of the Rutile structure IrMnO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1e,f). The fast-Fourier transform (FFT) indicates the single-crystalline nature of these NPs. The subnanometerresolution elemental mapping images of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs are given in Figure 1g, in which a uniform distribution of Ir, Mn, Sr, and O throughout the entire Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NP can be visualized. It further supports the formation of the Sr-doped IrMnO2 solidsolution NPs. The relative atomic ratio of Mn, Ir, and Sr in the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs is 0.57:0.30:0.13, well close to that obtained from the ICP-OES analysis (Table \$1, Supporting Information).

The panoramic XPS spectrum in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) indicates that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is composed of Ir, Mn, Sr, O, and C. Deconvolution of the Ir spectrum shows the presence of several distinct peaks (Figure 2b). The peaks at 62.0 and 65.0 eV can be attributed to Ir  $4f_{7/2}$  and Ir  $4f_{5/2}$  of Ir at the oxidation state of +4, while the peaks at 62.6 and 65.6 eV can be attributed to Ir  $4f_{7/2}$  and Ir  $4f_{5/2}$  of Ir at the oxidation state of +3. The Mn 2p spectrum of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is given in Figure 2c. It shows the peaks at 642.8 and 654.7 eV, assignable to Mn 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Mn 2p<sub>1/2</sub> of Mn<sup>4+</sup>, respectively. Additionally, the peaks corresponding to  $Mn^{3+}$  at 641.6 (Mn  $2p_{3/2}$ ) and 653.4 eV (Mn  $2p_{1/2}$ ) can also be observed. The appearance of the Ir 4f and Mn 2p peaks at the low oxidation states of +3 suggests the existence of Vo· in the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs. This can be well verified by the O 1s spectrum in Figure 2d, which shows the distinct peaks assignable to oxygen in the lattice (O<sub>L</sub>, 529.8 eV), the Vo· (531.1 eV), the adsorbed oxygeneous species (O<sub>ads</sub>, 532.3 eV), and the bonds of C-O/C = O (533.6 eV), respectively. Sr in the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs exists at the oxidation state of +2. As shown in Figure 2e, two peaks corresponding to Sr 3d<sub>5/2</sub> and Sr 3d<sub>3/2</sub> of Sr<sup>2+</sup> at the respective binding energies of 133.3 and 135.0 eV can be observed in the Sr 3d spectrum of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs. Figure 2f gives the EPR

www.advmat.de

5214095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202306934 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licrory.

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. a) TEM, b) HRTEM, c) SAED, and d) HAADF-STEM images of Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. e,f) Magnification of the individual particles indicated in (d) and their corresponding FFT images. g) EDS mapping images of Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs.

spectrum of the Sr-IrMnO $_2$ /CNTs. It shows a pronounced signal at g = 2.003, assignable to the electron trapping in Vo·. This observation further validates the presence of Vo· in the Sr-IrMnO $_2$ NPs.

Closer examinations show there exists a strong electronic coupling between Ir and Mn in the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. Figure 2c shows that the peaks corresponding to Mn in the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs appear at the relatively lower binding energies with respect to the MnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs (synthesized in the absence of Ir and Sr). And meanwhile, the appearance of the peaks corresponding to Ir in the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs at the relatively higher binding energies than the IrO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs (synthesized in the absence of Mn and Sr) can be observed in Figure 2b. These observations give a strong support that the co-existence of Mn, Ir, and Sr would lead to a strong electronic coupling between the metal ions. In particular, the Sr doping has a less influence on the oxidation states of Mn and Ir. This can be demonstrated by the observations that no obvious shifts of the peaks corresponding to Ir 4f and Mn 2p can be observed between the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs and IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs (synthesized in the absence of Sr, Figure 2b,c). Figure 2f shows that the IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs also exhibit the EPR signals corresponding to Vo., but with the intensities lower than the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs. It suggests that the IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs in the IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs are accompanied with Vo·, but with a concentration lower than that of the Sr-IrMnO2 NPs in the

Sr-IrMnO $_2$ /CNTs. The increased concentration of Vo· in the Sr-IrMnO $_2$ /CNTs with respect to the IrMnO $_2$ /CNTs is presumably due to the reason that the replacement of a high valence Ir/Mn with a low valence Sr through the doping has to remove an oxygen atom to keep the charge neutrality of the material.

The Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs are shown to be an efficient catalyst for the OER in the acid media. The linear sweeping voltammograms (LSVs) in Figure 3a show that when subjected to the OER in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>, the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs only needs an overpotential of 236.0 mV to drive 10.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> ( $\eta_{10}$ ). Interestingly, this overpotential is lower than those of the c-IrO2 (292.7 mV, close to the reported value)[15] and other state-of-art catalysts reported recently, such as 3D dealloyed nanoporous IrNi(DNP-IrNi)[16] and IrO<sub>x</sub>/Zr<sub>2</sub>ON<sub>2</sub><sup>[17]</sup> (Table S2, Supporting Information). It suggests that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs is one of the best OER catalysts among those reported. This can be further demonstrated by its higher OER kinetics. As shown in Figure 3b, the OER by the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs has a Tafel slope of 55.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is lower than those of the c-IrO<sub>2</sub> (74.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and other catalysts reported.[10,18] Meanwhile, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs exhibits lower charge transfer resistance (13.1  $\Omega$ ) than the c-IrO<sub>2</sub> (91.4  $\Omega$ )

The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) normalized LSVs are used to evaluate the intrinsic catalytic activities of the catalysts. Specifically, we estimate the ECSAs of the catalysts

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2024, 13. Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/adma.20230934b, University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. a) XRD pattern of Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. XPS spectra of b) Ir 4f, c) Mn 2p, d) O 1s, e) Sr 3d, and f) EPR spectra.

based on their electrochemical double layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>), derived from the cyclic voltammograms (CVs) measured at the different sweeping rates (v) (Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information). It indicates that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs have an ECSA of 209.3 cm<sup>2</sup>. The ECSA-normalized LSVs in Figure S5 (Supporting Information) indicate that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs only need an overpotential of 238.4 mV to drive 0.02 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> ( $\eta_{0.02, ECSA}$ ). This overpotential is much lower than that of the c-IrO<sub>2</sub> ( $\eta_{0.02}$  <sub>ECSA</sub> =  $\approx$ 300.0 mV). It suggests that the catalytic activity of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is intrinsically higher than that of the c-IrO<sub>2</sub>. A rough estimation indicates that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs have a turnover frequency of 2.1 s<sup>-1</sup> at 1.53 V, which is higher than that of the c-IrO<sub>2</sub> (0.025 s<sup>-1</sup>, close to the reported value). [11b] It verifies well that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs have the higher intrinsic activity over the c-IrO<sub>2</sub>. The mass activity of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is calculated with respect to Ir. The inset of Figure 3a shows that even with the use dosage of Ir 3.5 times lower than the c-IrO2, the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs has a mass activity of 1932.7 A g<sub>Ir</sub><sup>-1</sup> at 1.53 V. Remarkably, this value is 39.6 times higher than that of the c-IrO<sub>2</sub> (48.8 A g<sub>Ir</sub><sup>-1</sup>) and outperforms other catalysts reported recently, such as SrZrO<sub>3</sub>-SrIrO<sub>3</sub> (1540 A g<sub>Ir</sub><sup>-1@1.53</sup> V),<sup>[19]</sup> Ir-NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (401 A  $g_{\rm Ir}^{-1 @ 1.53}$  V), $^{[20]}$  and et al. (Table S2, Supporting Information). The high mass activity of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs mainly arises from the solid solution and ultrafine nanostructure of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub> NPs, which increases the catalytic activity of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs, reduces the use dosage of Ir, and exposes more Ir atoms available to the catalytic reactions due to the increased surface-to-volume ratio. The result strongly confirms that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is a superior catalyst for the acidic OER.

The durability measurements are carried out to evaluate the catalytic performance of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs further. Figure 3d

shows that no distinguishable drop in the activity can be observed when the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs are used as the acidic OER catalyst for > 2 000 cycles of the CVs. The chronopotentiometric curve indicates that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs maintain their high efficiency for the acidic OER (Figure 3e) well. Only a particularly low increase of the overpotential can be observed when it is worked at 10.0 mA  $cm^{-2}$  for > 400.0 h. These results indicate that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs have excellent durability for the acid OER. In particular, the durability of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is significantly higher than the c-IrO<sub>2</sub>. As shown in Figure 3d, an obvious drop in the activity can be observed when the c-IrO<sub>2</sub> is cycled after 2 000 CVs. The complete loss of its catalytic activity is detected when it is operated at 10.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> within a short time of < 13.0 h (Figure 3e). The high catalytic durability of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs mainly stems from its excellent structure robustness. TEM indicates that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit no obvious structure changes after the OER (Figure S6, Supporting Information). Figure S7 (Supporting Information) shows that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs after the OER exhibit the XPS spectra of Ir 4f, Mn 2p, and Sr 3d with the profiles comparable to those before the OER. The decrease in the intensity of Sr 3d can be attributed to the leaching of surface Sr during the OER. In particular, the peak corresponding to Vo· can be still observed in the O 1s spectrum of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs after the OER. To give a stronger support that the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs exhibits a high structure robustness, its metal leaching during the OER is detected. Figure 3f shows that the metal leaching of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs mainly occurs at the initial period of the OER. Only 2.69%, 3.28% and 0.96% of the Ir, Mn and Sr leaching can be detected respectively when the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is subjected to the acidic OER for up to 12 h. The metal leaching almost levels off with a further increase in the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) LSVs (the inset shows the mass activity comparison between Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs with c-IrO2 at 1.53 V), b) Tafel plots and c) EIS spectra. d) LSVs of the catalysts before and after 2 000 CVs. e) Chronopotentiometric curves. f) Metal leaching of Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs, IrMnO2/CNTs, and c-IrO2. g) Ir content dependent <sup>10</sup> and 0.02, ECSA of the IrMnO2/CNTs; h) Sr doping level dependent <sup>10</sup> and 0.02, ECSA of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs.

operation time. It is greatly different from the c-IrO2, which shows a more obvious Ir leaching (≈9.76%) within *<*10.0 h. This observation gives a good interpretation of why the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs can exhibit a high stability for the acidic OER. In particular, the occurrence of the metal leaching mainly at the initial period of the OER is presumably attributable to the formation of the stable Ir-rich oxide layer at the surface of the Sr-IrMnO2 NPs. As shown in Figure 3f, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit a relatively more obvious leaching of Mn than Ir.

To gain a deeper understanding of why the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs can exhibit the high catalytic activity and excellent durability for the acidic OER, the IrMnO2/CNTs with different contents of Ir and the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs with the different levels of the Sr doping are synthesized and their catalytic activities toward the acidic OER are investigated. Figure S8a (Supporting Information) shows that the IrMnO2/CNTs exhibits the XRD patterns similar to the MnO2/CNTs, but with the diffraction peaks corresponding to the (101) and (211) planes of the Rutile structure MnO2 gradually shifting to the lower 2 angles with increase of the Ir content. The doping of Sr has no influences on the crystal phase of IrMnO2, but gradually shifts the diffraction peaks to the lower 2 with increase of the doping level due to the relatively larger ionic radius of Sr<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>(1.18 Å) with respect to Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.53 Å) and Ir<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.63 Å) (Figure S8b, Supporting Information). These observations further demonstrate that the IrMnO2 NPs in the IrMnO2/CNTs and the Sr-IrMnO2 NPs in the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs have a solid solution structure. Figure 3a–c shows that the MnO2/CNTs exhibits a negligible catalytic activity toward the OER. The incorporation of Ir significantly increases the catalytic activity of the MnO2/CNTs. Even at the extremely low content of Ir (≈8.0 at%), a great improvement of the catalytic activity can be observed in the IrMnO2/CNTs with respect to the plain MnO2/CNTs (Figure 3g; Figure S9a,b, Supporting Information). It suggests that the Ir atoms at the surface of the IrMnO2 NPs are the active sites of the OER. The increase of the Ir content increases the catalytic activity of the IrMnO2/CNTs, due to the increase of the active sites available to the OER. Interestingly, when the Ir content in the IrMnO2/CNTs **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202306934 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

is increased up *>* 0.31, a reduction of catalytic activity can be observed (Figure [3g\)](#page-4-0). Particularly, the IrO2/CNTs synthesized in the absence of Mn shows much lower catalytic activity for the acidic OER (Figure [3a–c\)](#page-4-0). These observations may suggest that the interactions between the Ir atoms in the solid solution is not favored to give a higher catalytic activity, since the high Ir content may lead to the domination of Ir-O-Ir bonds. It is different from the case of the IrMnO2/CNTs with the relatively low Ir content, where the Ir atoms in the lattice of IrMnO2 are well separated, leading to the better interactions between Ir and Mn through the Ir-O-Mn bonds. Figure [3g](#page-4-0) and Figure S9a,b (Supporting Information) show that the IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit a monotonic increase of the ECSA-normalized overpotential to drive 0.02 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (0.02, ECSA) with increase of the Ir content. It indicates that the IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit a decrease of the intrinsic activity with increase of the Ir content in the IrMnO2 NPs. The finding strongly highlights the great importance of the solid solution structure in the high catalytic activity of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNT, in which the Ir atoms are separated in the lattice of IrMnO2 to give a better electronic coupling between Ir and Mn.

The Sr doping has less influence on the activity of the IrMnO2/CNTs. Figure [3a,h](#page-4-0) shows that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs only exhibit a slight increase in the activity for the OER than the IrMnO2/CNTs. The change of the Sr doping level shows *<* 15.0 mV of the variations in <sup>10</sup> of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs (Figure [3h;](#page-4-0) Figure S9c,d, Supporting Information). This can be further demonstrated by 0.02, ECSA, which shows *<* 10.0 mV of the variations with increase of the Sr doping level. It might be attributable to the reason that the Sr doping has less influence on the oxidation states of Ir and Mn, as demonstrated in Figure [2b,c.](#page-3-0) Most notably, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit a significantly higher catalytic durability than IrMnO2/CNTs. As shown in Figure [3e,](#page-4-0) when used for the acidic OER, the IrMnO2/CNTs show a gradual increase of the potential to maintain the current density of 10.0 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. A complete loss of the activity can be observed when it is used for up to 112.0 h. In contrast, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs can maintain its high activity for the acidic OER for *>* 400.0 h well. The ICP-MS analysis in Figure [3f](#page-4-0) indicates that with the presence of Sr, the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit a significantly reduced leaching of Ir during the OER than the IrMnO2/CNTs, although the Sr doping has less influence on the leaching of Mn. This finding indicates that the doping of Sr can strengthen the stability of Ir in the lattice of the IrMnO2 solid solution against the chemical corrosion during the acidic OER. This is consistent with the recent work, which shows that the Sr incorporation can strengthen the stability of the IrO*x*/SrIrO3 against the chemical corrosion.[\[21\]](#page-9-0) Based on these results, it is clear that the high catalytic activity and excellent durability of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs for the acidic OER mainly stems from its peculiar solid solution and Sr-doped structure. Specifically, the solid solution structure makes the Ir atoms well separated, leading to a better electronic coupling between Ir and Mn and thereby the high catalytic activity toward the acidic OER. The Sr doping can increase the stability of Ir in the solid solution against the chemical corrosion, enhancing the durability of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs during the acidic OER. Additionally, we believe that the presence of the CNTs can be attributed to one of the important factors leading to the high OER activity of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. The carbonaceous nature of the CNTs can, on one hand, increase the electric conductivity of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs, reducing the activity loss caused by the resistance induced polarization. On the other hand, the presence of the CNTs is helpful to the formation of the nanosized Sr-IrMnO2 particles, preventing them from aggregation and increasing the availability of the active sites to the

OER. To gain a deeper understanding of why the solid-solution and Sr doping structure of Sr-IrMnO2 NPs improves the catalytic activity and stability of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs toward the OER, the DFT calculations are performed.[\[22\]](#page-9-0) Specifically, a Rutile structure Sr-doped IrMnO2 solid solution (Sr-IrMnO2) with the presence of Vo· is built. Based on the HAADF-STEM image of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs, the relative stable (110) surface of the defective Sr-IrMnO2 (Sr-IrMnO2(110)def) is used to calculate the catalytic activity (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0). The Vo· is energetically favorably generated in the position neighboring the Sr doping site (marked by a black dash circle in Figure [4a\)](#page-6-0). The DFT calculation indicates that the formation of Vo· is exothermic at the position neighboring the Sr doping site (ΔE = −0.39 eV), while it is endothermic at the position away from the Sr doping site (ΔE = 2.39 eV). This is probably due to the reason that Sr is favored to be at the valence state of +2 with the low coordination number. According to the computational hydrogen electrode model proposed by Nørskov et al.,[\[23\]](#page-9-0) the OER on the catalyst surface consists of four elementary proton-coupled electron transfer steps (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0). The energy barrier of the RDS can be utilized to assess the activity of the catalyst. Figure [4a](#page-6-0) shows that the active sites of the OER on Sr-IrMnO2(110)def are the Ir atoms at the surface, as marked with a red cycle. The possibility of the oxygeneous intermediate (\*OH) adsorption at the Ir and Mn bridging site has also been checked. The structure relaxation, however, shows the shift of \*OH to the site of Ir atom. The strong repulsion interaction between \*OH and the O atoms in the lattice of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def makes the adsorption of \*OH at the Ir and Mn bridging site energetically unfavorable. The free energy diagram in Figure [4c](#page-6-0) shows that the formation of \*O at the Ir site is the RDS of the OER by the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def, which has an energy barrier of 0.36 eV at the equilibrium potential of U = 1.23 V. In particular, the energy barrier of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def is lower than those of both MnO2(110) (0.85 eV, Figure S10, Supporting Information) and IrO2(110) (0.42 eV, Figure [4c\)](#page-6-0), which take the formation of \*OOH and the release of O2 as the RDSs, respectively. This finding indicates that the solid solution structure is an important factor leading to the high catalytic activity of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. In particular, the solid solution structure can induce the strong electronic coupling between Ir and Mn through the Ir-O-Mn bond. The Bader charge analysis shows that the atomic charges of Mn and Ir in IrMnO2 are +1.94|e| and +2.45|e|, which are lower and higher than the respective atomic charges of Mn in the pure MnO2 (+2.00|e|) and Ir in IrO2 (+2.14|e|).[\[24\]](#page-9-0) The result indicates that the electronic coupling between Ir and Mn through the Ir-O-Mn bond can lower the oxidation state of Mn and increase the oxidation state of Ir. It is well consistent with the XPS results in Figure [2b,c,](#page-3-0) which show that the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs exhibit the Mn peaks with the lower binding energies than the MnO2/CNTs and the Ir peaks with the higher binding energies than the IrO2/CNTs. The increase of the Ir content would lead to the domination of Ir-O-Ir bond. The DFT calculations indicate that the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def with the high Ir content (the

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Side (upper) and top (lower) view of Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. b) Illustration of OER on Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. c) Free energy diagram of OER. d) DOSs of Sr-IrMnO2(110)def, Sr-IrMnO2(110) and IrO2(110). e) COHPs of Ir-O for Sr-IrMnO2(110)def and Sr-IrMnO2(110). f) Pourbaix diagram of Sr-IrMnO2(110)def, Sr-IrMnO2(110) and IrO2(110).

Sr-IrmMnO2(110)def) exhibits a relatively higher energy barrier of the OER (0.40 eV) than the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def (Figure 4c). It is in good agreement with the result in Figure [3g,](#page-4-0) which shows that the IrMnO2/CNTs with the high Ir content exhibits the higher 0.02, ECSA for the OER. The presence of Vo· is also found to be important in the high catalytic activity of the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. As shown in Figure 4c, the Vo·-free Sr-IrMnO2(110) exhibits a high energy barrier for the OER (0.42 eV) than the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. The Sr doping has less influence on the catalytic activity of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. Figure 4c shows that the energy barrier of the OER by the IrMnO2(110)def is 0.36 eV, which is well close to that of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def.

The project density of states (pDOS) of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def is given in Figure 4d. It shows that the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def has a non-zero DOS at the Fermi level. This indicates that the solidsolution structure Sr-IrMnO2 NPs have relatively high electric conductivity, which is conducive to the electron transfer during the OER. Generally, the O p-band center (*p*) can be used to predict the intrinsic OER activity of the oxide.[\[25\]](#page-9-0) Figure 4d shows that the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def has an *<sup>p</sup>* of −3.11 eV, which is closer to the Fermi level than that of the IrO2(110) (*<sup>p</sup>* = −3.91 eV). It suggests that the solid solution structure induced Ir-O-Mn bond interaction can uplift the *<sup>p</sup>* of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def, enhancing its catalytic activity toward the OER. The presence of Vo· will make the *<sup>p</sup>* of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def away from the Fermi level. As shown in Figure S11 (Supporting Information), the Sr-IrMnO2(110) exhibits an *<sup>p</sup>* value of −2.84 eV, which is more positive than the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. This is not conducive to the high OER activity of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. Nevertheless, the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def exhibits higher OER activity than the Sr-IrMnO2(110). It can be attributed to the reason that the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def has an Ir d-band center (*d*) of −2.95 eV, which is more away from the Fermi level than that of the Sr-IrMnO2(110) (−2.79 eV). With *<sup>d</sup>* more away from the Fermi level, the bond strength between the active Ir sites and the adsorbed OER intermediates is weakened, which can promote the release of O2 during the OER process. Figure 4e gives the crystal orbital Hamilton populations (COHPs) of the Ir at the active site with oxygen adsorbed (Ir-O).[\[26\]](#page-9-0) It indicates that the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def has an integrated COHP value of −3.34 eV, which is less negative than that of the Sr-IrMnO2(110) (−3.50 eV). This result demonstrates well that the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def has a weakened adsorption of the reaction intermediates. Figure 4c shows that the fourth step of the OER (i. e. the release of O2) by the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def is downhill, while it is uphill by the Sr-IrMnO2(110). It strongly suggests that the weakened adsorption of the reaction intermediates can ease the release of O2 from the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. The Sr doping shifts *<sup>p</sup>* and *<sup>d</sup>* of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def both away from the Fermi level. As shown in Figure 4d, the IrMnO2(110)def exhibits the *<sup>p</sup>* and *<sup>d</sup>* values of −2.87 and −2.84 eV, respectively, both of which are closer to the Fermi level than those of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. This observation may suggest that the compromise between the downshift of both *<sup>p</sup>* and *<sup>d</sup>* can make the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def exhibit the OER activity comparable to the IrMnO2(110)def.

The calculations indicate that both the solid solution and the Sr doping structure can increase the stability of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def. The Pourbaix diagram in Figure 4f shows that

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Performance of water electrolyzers in 0.5 M H2SO4. b) Current density dependent input potential of Pt/C||Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs. c) Chronopotentiometric curves of water electrolyzers at 10 and 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (inset). d) Chronopotentiometric curves of the PEMWE at 50 and 250 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (inset). The inset on the left shows a photograph of the PEMWE.

the IrMnO2(110)def exhibits a higher stability against the chemical corrosion than the IrO2 (110). With the Sr doping, the stability of the IrMnO2(110)def can be further enhanced. As shown in Figure [4f,](#page-6-0) the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def exhibits a higher stability than the IrMnO2(110)def. This observation is well consistent with the experimental results in Figure [3e,](#page-4-0) which show that the stability of the catalysts follows the order of Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs *>* IrMnO2/CNTs *>* c-IrO2. The improved stability of the IrMnO2(110)def with respect to the IrO2(110)def can be attributed to the strong interactions between Mn and Ir through the Mn-O-Ir bond. The calculation indicates that the average bond length of Ir-O at the surface of the IrMnO2(110) is ≈1.96 Å, which is shorter than that of the IrO2(110) (≈2.00 Å) (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The shorter bond length would lead to a stronger electronic coupling between Ir and O, increasing the oxidation state of Ir. It is in good agreement with the XPS spectra in Figure [2b,](#page-3-0) which shows that the peaks corresponding to Ir in the IrMnO2/CNTs appear at the relatively higher binding energies than those in the IrO2/CNTs. The Sr doping has less influence on the average bond length of Ir-O at the surface of the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def, but it shortens the bond length of the surface Ir to the underneath O at the position nearing the doping site (Figure S12, Supporting Information). It suggests that the Sr doping can further enhance the electronic coupling between Ir and O, improving the stability of Ir against the chemical corrosion. However, due to the relatively low Sr doping level, the influence of the Sr doping on the oxidation states of Ir in the Sr-IrMnO2(110)def is not obvious, as shown in Figure [2b.](#page-3-0) Previous work has proposed that the poor stability of the IrO2 based catalysts for the acid OER is mainly caused by the dissolution <span id="page-8-0"></span>www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

of Ir into IrO $_3$  at the high potentials. [13,27] Our calculation shows that the energy costs of the Ir dissolution into IrO $_3$  from the Sr-IrMnO $_2$ (110) $_{\rm def}$ , the IrMnO $_2$ (110) $_{\rm def}$  and the IrO $_2$ (110) are 3.44, 3.09, and 0.52 eV, respectively (Figure S13, Supporting Information). This observation indicates the enhanced electronic coupling between Ir and O can protect the dissolution of Ir atoms well during the catalytic processes. The result further demonstrates that both the solid solution and the Sr doping structures can increase the stability of the Sr-IrMnO $_2$ /CNTs for the acidic OFR.

The high catalytic activity and excellent durability make the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs highly promising as the anodic catalyst for water electrolyzers in the acid media. The applicability of the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs is first examined by using it in water electrolyzers. Figure 5a shows that the water electrolyzer, assembled using the Pt/C and the Sr-IrMnO2/CNTs as the respective cathode and anode catalysts (Pt/C||Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs), only needs an input voltage of 1.507 V to drive 10.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Remarkably, this value is much lower than those of the Pt/C||c-IrO2 (1.578 V), and many state-of-art water electrolyzers reported recently, such as Pt/C||IrMoO<sub>x</sub>-450 (1.540 V),<sup>[28]</sup> 4CeO<sub>2</sub>@SrIrO<sub>3</sub>||Pt-C (1.510 V),<sup>[10]</sup> and Au@AuIr<sub>2</sub>||Au@AuIr<sub>2</sub> (1.550 V)<sup>[29]</sup> (Table S2, Supporting Information). Again, the Pt/C||Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs show excellent durability when operated at the different current densities. As displayed in Figure 5b, the Pt/C||Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs exhibits the stable input voltages of 1.507, 1.566, 1.618, 1.661, and 1.694 V to drive 10.0 to 20.0, 30.0, 40.0, and 50.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. In particular, the recovery of the input voltage to 1.507 V shows the resumption of the current density to 10.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The long-term durability measurements indicate that the Pt/C||Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs show negligible increase of the input voltage to maintain 10.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for > 400.0 h (Figure 5c). Even at the high current density of 50.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, no obvious increase of the input voltage can be also observed. This is stark different from the Pt/C||c-IrO<sub>2</sub>, which shows the dramatic increase of the input voltage within a short period of time (< 28.0 h) when operated at 10.0 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Additionally, the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs are also practically usable in the PEMWE. Figure 5d shows that the PEMWE, assembled using the Pt/C and the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs as the respective cathode and anode catalysts, exhibits excellent stability for overall water splitting at 80 °C. No obvious increases of the input voltages can be observed when it works at 50 and 250 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for > 450 and > 300 h, respectively. These results clearly demonstrate the great potentials of using the Sr-IrMnO<sub>2</sub>/CNTs for practical applications.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, the  $Sr-IrMnO_2/CNTs$ , consisting of Sr-doped  $IrMnO_2$  solid solution ultrafine NPs with rich Vo·, have been successfully synthesized. Even at the low use dosage of Ir, the  $Sr-IrMnO_2/CNTs$  show the superior activity and outstanding stability for the OER in the acid media. Its Ir mass activity is 39.6 times higher than the c- $IrO_2$ . No obvious drop in the activity can be observed when it is used in the acidic OER for > 400.0 h. The DFT calculations indicate that the solid solution structure can promote the strong electronic coupling between Ir and Mn through the Ir-O-Mn bonds, lowering the energy barrier of the RDS of the OER. The Sr doping can increase the energy cost of the Ir demetalla-

tion. These results well explain why the  $Sr-IrMnO_2/CNTs$  can exhibit the superior activity and outstanding stability for the OER. The water electrolyzers and the PEMWEs assembled with the  $Sr-IrMnO_2/CNTs$  show superb performance and excellent durability for water splitting in the acid media. The work provides a new perspective for rationally designing and preparing fascinating electro-catalysts of high performance for the acidic OER.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author

## Acknowledgements

The authors acknowledge the finanical supports from the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (Nos. 2020B1515120048, 2022A1515011794, and 2017A030313092), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 11975205 and 52102162), and the Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation (No. LR22E070001).

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

acidic oxygen evolution reaction,  ${\rm IrMnO_2}$  nanoparticles, solid solution structure, Sr-doping structure, superb performance and excellent durability

Received: July 14, 2023 Revised: December 14, 2023 Published online: December 31, 2023 1521495, 2024, 13. Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/adma.20230934b, University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] a) V. R. Stamenkovic, D. Strmcnik, P. P. Lopes, N. M. Markovic, Nat. Mater. 2017, 16, 57; b) J. A. Turner, Science 2004, 305, 972.
- [2] a) B.o You, Y. Sun, Acc. Chem. Res. 2018, 51, 1571; b) J. He, X. Zhou,
  P. Xu, J. Sun, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2102883.
- [3] T. Reier, H. N. Nong, D. Teschner, R. Schlögl, P. Strasser, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1601275.
- [4] Z. Chen, X. Duan, W. Wei, S. Wang, B.-J. Ni, Nano Energy 2020, 78, 105270.
- [5] S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin, A. A. Topalov, N. Kulyk, I. Katsounaros, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, *ChemCatChem* 2014, 6, 2219.
- [6] a) A. Ruban, B. Hammer, P. Stoltze, H. L. Skriver, J. K. Nørskov, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 1997, 115, 421; b) D. Cao, J. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Xu, D. Cheng, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 416, 129128.
- [7] D.-Y. Kuo, H. Paik, J. Kloppenburg, B. Faeth, K. M. Shen, D. G. Schlom, G. Hautier, J. Suntivich, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 17597.
- [8] a) F. Zhao, B.o Wen, W. Niu, Z. Chen, C. Yan, A. Selloni, C. G. Tully, X. Yang, B. E. Koel, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 15616; b) Z. Xia, B. Deng, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, Z.-J. Jiang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 23483.

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[9] a) Z. Fan, Y. Ji, Q.i Shao, S. Geng, W. Zhu, Y. Liu, F. Liao, Z. Hu, Y.u-C. Chang, C.-W. Pao, Y. Li, Z. Kang, M. Shao, *Joule* **2021**, *5*, 3221; b) H. Yan, Z. Jiang, B. Deng, Y. Wang, Z.-J. Jiang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 202300152.
- [10] M. You, Y. Xu, B. He, J. Zhang, L. Gui, J. Xu, W. Zhou, L. Zhao, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *315*, 121579.
- [11] a) M. F. Lagadec, A. Grimaud, *Nat. Mater.* **2020**, *19*, 1140; b) Z. Shi, Y. Wang, J.i Li, X. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Li, W. Xu, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, W. Xing, J. Ge, *Joule* **2021**, *5*, 2164.
- [12] Y. Zhu, J. Wang, T. Koketsu, M. Kroschel, J.-M. Chen, S.u-Y. Hsu, G. Henkelman, Z. Hu, P. Strasser, J. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 7754.
- [13] O. Kasian, J.-P. Grote, S. Geiger, S. Cherevko, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 2488.
- [14] A. R. Denton, N. W. Ashcroft, *Phys. Rev. A* **1991**, *43*, 3161.
- [15] W. Gou, M. Zhang, Y. Zou, X. Zhou, Y. Qu, *ChemCatChem* **2019**, *11*, 6008.
- [16] K.-R. Yeo, K.-S. Lee, H. Kim, J. Lee, S.-K. Kim, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3449.
- [17] C. Lee, K. Shin, Y. Park, Y. H. Yun, G. Doo, G.i H. Jung, M. Kim, W.-C. Cho, C.-H. Kim, H. M.o Lee, H. Y. Kim, S. Lee, G. Henkelman, H.-S. Cho, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301557.
- [18] F. Luo, H. Hu, X. Zhao, Z. Yang, Q. Zhang, J. Xu, T. Kaneko, Y. Yoshida, C. Zhu, W. Cai, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 2120.

- [19] X. Liang, L. Shi, R. Cao, G. Wan, W. Yan, H. Chen, Y. Liu, X. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2001430.
- [20] J. Yin, J. Jin, M. Lu, B. Huang, H. Zhang, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 18378.
- [21] L. C. Seitz, C. F. Dickens, K. Nishio, Y. Hikita, J. Montoya, A. Doyle, C. Kirk, A. Vojvodic, H. Y. Hwang, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2016**, *353*, 1011.
- [22] a) A. Notario-Estévez, S. M. Kozlov, F. Viñes, F. Illas, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169; b) V. Wang, N. Xu, J.-C. Liu, G. Tang, W.-T. Geng, *Comput. Phys. Commun.* **2021**, *267*, 108033.
- [23] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jónsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.
- [24] W. Tang, E. Sanville, G. Henkelman, *J. Phys.: Condens. Matter* **2009**, *21*, 084204.
- [25] A. Grimaud, K. J. May, C. E. Carlton, Y.-L. Lee, M. Risch, W. T. Hong, J. Zhou, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2439.
- [26] V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Phys. Chem. A* **2011**, *115*, 5461.
- [27] A. Zagalskaya, V. Alexandrov, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2020**, *11*, 2695.
- [28] X. Chen, W. Li, N.a Song, M. Zhong, S.u Yan, J. Xu, W. Zhu, C.e Wang, X. Lu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *440*, 135851.
- [29] H. Wang, Z.-N. Chen, D. Wu, M. Cao, F. Sun, H. Zhang, H. You, W. Zhuang, R. Cao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 4639.