---
source: Li 等 - 2025 - Upcycling of Multi‐Metal Contaminated Wastewater into High‐Entropy Layered Double Hydroxide for Oxyg.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 19.397s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:13:36.919621Z
---

# **Upcycling of Multi-Metal Contaminated Wastewater into High-Entropy Layered Double Hydroxide for Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Qian Li, Yihang Hu, Guihao Liu, Zhaohui Wu, Xiang Chen,\* and Yu-Fei Song\**

**The rapid growth of the electric vehicle industry has driven up nickel demand for batteries. However, the release of various metals during the smelting of nickel-containing ore leads to complex multi-metal contaminated smelting wastewater. Herein, CaFe layered double hydroxide (denoted as CaFe) is synthesized for the treatment of multi-metal contaminated wastewater, achieving removal efficiencies of 98.0%, 98.6%, 100%, and 100% for Co2<sup>+</sup>, Ni2<sup>+</sup>, Cu2<sup>+</sup>, and Zn2<sup>+</sup>, respectively. The quasi-situ X-ray diffraction (XRD) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) results indicate the formation of high-entropy LDH of CaCoNiCuZnFe by the isomorphic substitution of Ca2<sup>+</sup> in CaFe. Meanwhile, lattice distortion and the formation of metal vacancies can be observed due to the introduction of metals with different ionic radii and the dissolution of Ca2<sup>+</sup>. Given the stability and abundant active sites of high-entropy material, the CaCoNiCuZnFe shows good OER performance with an overpotential of 310.7 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and long-term stability of 250 h. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that lattice distortion optimizes intermediate adsorption energy by enhancing M**─**O covalency and metal vacancy activates lattice oxygen by generating non-bonding oxygen, which synergistically triggers the lattice oxygen mechanism (LOM). This strategy converts multi-metal contaminated wastewater resources into valuable products and achieves dual goals of environmental remediation and resource utilization.**

# **1. Introduction**

The electric vehicle (EV) industry has been growing rapidly, with the global market share of EV sales climbing swiftly from 4.2%

Q. Li, Y. Hu, G. Liu, Z. Wu, Y.-F. Song

State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering

Beijing University of Chemical Technology

Beijing 100029, P. R. China E-mail: [songyf@mail.buct.edu.cn](mailto:songyf@mail.buct.edu.cn)

X. Chen

Jiangsu Ruijia New Materials Co. Ltd Rugao 226532, P. R. China E-mail: [15250830823@163.com](mailto:15250830823@163.com)

Y.-F. Song

Quzhou Institute for Innovation in Resource Chemical Engineering Quzhou 324000, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202411043>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202411043**

in 2020 to 15.8% in 2023.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) As a crucial component of high-performance batteries, the demand for nickel (Ni) has surged dramatically. The Ni was primarily found in sulfide ores and laterite nickel ores, which often contain the associated metals including cobalt (Co), copper (Cu), and zinc (Zn).[\[2\]](#page-8-0) During the smelting process of these ores, the Ni loss results in heavy metal contamination in water. Additionally, other metals can also be released, leading to multi-metal contamination in the smelting wastewater.[\[3\]](#page-8-0) Due to the distinct chemical properties and reactivities of different metals, they can interfere with each other, further increasing the complexity and toxicity of mixed metals in waste.[\[4\]](#page-8-0) As such, it becomes more challenging to remediate wastewater containing multiple heavy metals contamination.

Currently, the main methods for treating heavy metal ions in water include chemical precipitation, electrolysis, membrane separation, ion exchange, and adsorption.[\[5\]](#page-8-0) Among them, adsorption was considered an effective way to remove heavy metals due to its adaptable design, simple operation, and broad applicability.[\[6\]](#page-8-0)

However, existing adsorbent materials typically exhibited strong selectivity for specific metals, making it difficult to simultaneously remove multiple metals efficiently in complex wastewater environments.[\[7\]](#page-8-0) In addition, most adsorbents showed sluggish adsorption rates and limited removal efficiencies when dealing with mixed heavy metal ions.[\[8\]](#page-8-0) For example, Juan et al. prepared core-sheath fibers with di(2-ethylhexyl)phosphoric acid carrier fixed on the outer surface for multi-metals adsorption of Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Ni2<sup>+</sup>, achieving removal efficiencies of 38.4%, 20.8%, and 13.2%, respectively.[[9\]](#page-8-0) Genuchten et al. used powdered olivine to treat Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. After 17 h of reaction, the removal efficiencies were 55% for Cu2<sup>+</sup> and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, while the removal efficiencies for Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> were both below 30%.[\[10\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, developing adsorbents that can rapidly, economically, and efficiently handle multiple heavy metals contamination in wastewater was of great importance.

Layered double hydroxides (LDHs) are a class of anionic clays with adjustable laminate composition and interlayer anions, capable of anchoring heavy metals within the layer or interlayer.[\[11\]](#page-8-0)

The high stability of LDHs with extremely low Ksp can prevent secondary pollution of the adsorption products, but resource reutilization of the adsorption product remains challenging.[12] To address this issue, the concept of high-entropy materials offers a promising approach. High-entropy materials can be defined as those containing five or more metal cations with varying radii and electronegativities in equimolar or near-equimolar ratios.<sup>[13]</sup> The introduction of different components helps to increase the entropy of the material, giving it unique structural stability and abundant active sites.[14] This inspires me with the idea of converting multi-metals adsorption products into valuable resources, achieving two goals of environmental remediation and resource reutilization.

Herein, we synthesized CaFe lavered double hydroxide (denoted as CaFe) for the removal of multi-metals contaminants in wastewater, achieving excellent removal efficiencies for Co<sup>2+</sup>, Ni<sup>2+</sup>, Cu<sup>2+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2+</sup> ions. Through detailed analysis using quasisitu XRD and XAFS, we identified the isomorphic substitution mechanism and observed lattice distortion, along with the formation of metal vacancies. Furthermore, the resulting high-entropy LDH material, CaCoNiCuZnFe, demonstrated exceptional performance as an electrocatalyst for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), with enhanced stability compared to CaFe. DFT calculations were used to thoroughly investigate the relationship between structure and activity.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Adsorption Performance in Multi-Metal Contamination System

We synthesized CaFe layered double hydroxide (denoted as CaFe) using the coprecipitation method. As depicted in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), XRD pattern revealed typical CaFe layered double hydroxide peaks (JCPDS # 44-0445), with an interlayer spacing of 7.89 Å ( $d_{003}$ ), corresponding to the intercalation of Cl<sup>-</sup>.[15] Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed that CaFe exhibited a flakelike morphology with a diameter of ≈500 nm (Figure S2, Supporting Information). The chemical composition was analyzed by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES). The molar ratio of Ca to Fe was determined to be 1.7:1, which matched the precursor ratio.

We conducted an experiment on the coexisting Co2+, Ni2+, Cu<sup>2+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2+</sup> to evaluate the coadsorption performance of CaFe. The initial concentration ( $C_0$ ) was 80 ppm (mg  $L^{-1}$ , that is 80 ppm for each metal). Figure 1a shows the removal efficiency as a function of time. For the four heavy metal ions, the removal efficiencies increased rapidly within the first 10 min and all reached equilibriums at 30 min, indicating that CaFe had good removal efficiency for heavy metals. The removal efficiencies of Co<sup>2+</sup>,  $Ni^{2+}$ ,  $Cu^{2+}$ ,  $Zn^{2+}$  within 120 min were 98.0%, 98.6%, 100%, and 100%, respectively. The kinetic curve can be fitted well with the pseudo-second-order model, suggesting that the removal process of heavy metals was governed by a chemisorption process (Figure S3 and Table S1, Supporting Information). [16] The XRD analysis of the adsorption product (denoted as CaCoNiCuZnFe) is shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information). It was revealed that Ca-CoNiCuZnFe exhibited only one set of characteristic diffraction

peaks of LDH, implying that the heavy metals all were integrated into the LDH layers to form a single-phase high entropy LDH.[14b] Additionally, no Fe<sup>3+</sup> dissolution was detected in the solution, but  $Ca^{2+}$  dissolution was detected at a concentration of 239.0 mg  $L^{-1}$ , demonstrating that isomorphic substitution of Ca<sup>2+</sup> in the laminate by Co<sup>2+</sup>, Ni<sup>2+</sup>, Cu<sup>2+</sup> and Zn<sup>2+</sup> took place.

Additionally, adsorption experiments were conducted with one less heavy metal present as control groups, specifically adsorbing  $Ni^{2+}$ ,  $Cu^{2+}$ , and  $Zn^{2+}$ ;  $Co^{2+}$ ,  $Cu^{2+}$ , and  $Zn^{2+}$ ;  $Co^{2+}$ ,  $Ni^{2+}$ , and Zn2+; and Co2+, Ni2+, and Cu2+. The corresponding adsorption products were denoted as CaNiCuZnFe, CaCoCuZnFe, CaCoNiZnFe, and CaCoNiCuFe, respectively. The results also showed high removal efficiencies (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The elemental composition of the adsorption products revealed that the molar ratio of Co2+:Ni2+:Cu2+:Zn2+ in CaCoNiCuZnFe was close to 1:1:1:1. Based on these results, the configurational entropy of the material was calculated, as shown in Table S2 (Supporting Information). Compared with CaFe, the resultant CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited the highest configurational entropy (1.62R, R was the gas constant), highlighting its highentropy characteristic.

The isotherm experiments were conducted to determine the adsorption capacity at various concentrations (10-800 ppm for each Co2+, Ni2+, Cu2+, and Zn2+). The results are shown in Figure 1b. When C<sub>0</sub> was 10-80 ppm, the removal efficiencies of all heavy metals were above 95%. As C<sub>0</sub> continued to increase, the removal efficiencies for Co2+, Ni2+, and Zn2+ gradually decreased, while the removal efficiency for Cu2+ remained essentially unchanged, indicating that CaFe has a high selectivity for Cu<sup>2+</sup> at high concentrations. The maximum removal capacity of Cu<sup>2+</sup> was 555.5 mg g<sup>-1</sup> (Figure S6, Supporting Information).

To better understand the detailed adsorption process and mechanism, adsorption products at various C<sub>0</sub> were identified by XRD (Figure 1c). The value of lattice parameter a ( $a = 2d_{(110)}$ ) reflected the distance between adjacent metal cations in the layers and varied with the type of metal atom, which provided a more detailed insight into the removal process (Figure 1d; Table S3, Supporting Information).<sup>[17]</sup> It was observed that at a C<sub>0</sub> of 10 ppm, the characteristic (110) diffraction peak of CaFe at 30.4° disappeared after adsorption, and the crystallinity deteriorated (Stage I). Furthermore, ICP-OES tests revealed significant dissolution of Ca<sup>2+</sup>, which explained the loss of crystallinity (Figure 1e). The dissolution amount of Ca<sup>2+</sup> (0.18 mmol L<sup>-1</sup>) was much greater than the adsorption amount of heavy metals (0.02 mmol L<sup>-1</sup>), indicating the presence of metal vacancies. At a C<sub>0</sub> of 30 ppm, a new (110) diffraction peak appeared at 35.32°, with a calculated a value of 5.078 Å, much smaller than the 5.876 Å of CaFe. The smaller interplanar distance was contributed by the generation of metal vacancies resulting from substantial Ca<sup>2+</sup> dissolution. As C<sub>0</sub> gradually increased (up to 80 ppm), the peak position progressively shifted toward a lower degree, and a value increased, indicating that more metals were entering the layers to fill the Ca<sup>2+</sup> vacancies, thereby increasing the distance between metal cations (Stage II). When C<sub>0</sub> reached 80–150 ppm, the (110) peak position began to shift toward a lower degree and its intensity decreased, corresponding to the gradually decreased a value. Given the preferential adsorption of Cu2+ at the high concentrations above mentioned, we understand that the negative shift was due to the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Kinetic curves of simultaneous removal of Co2+, Ni2<sup>+</sup>, Cu2<sup>+</sup>, and Zn2<sup>+</sup> (C0 = 80 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, t = 120 min, at ambient temperature); b) the effect of C0 on the adsorption efficiency; c) XRD patterns of adsorption products and d) corresponding a value at various C0; e) Dissolution of Ca<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and the removal capacity of heavy metals at various C0. f) Schematic illustration of adsorption product as a function of C0.

smaller ionic radius of Cu2<sup>+</sup> (0.72 Å) replacing the larger ionic radii of Co2<sup>+</sup> (0.74 Å), Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.72 Å), and Zn2<sup>+</sup> (0.74 Å). Therefore, as the amount of adsorbed Cu2<sup>+</sup> increased, the distance between metal ions decreased (Stage III). At 200 ppm, a fresh (110) peak appeared at 34.13°, and the intensity increased with the increasing C0. Previous studies indicated that this peak was ascribed to CuFe-LDH (Stage IV).[\[18\]](#page-8-0) The high selectivity for Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> could be ascribed to the lower lattice energy of Cu-based LDH and Gibbs free energy changes of substitution of Ca2<sup>+</sup> by Cu2<sup>+</sup> reported by Yan et al.[\[19\]](#page-8-0) The lattice energy of CuAl-LDH (−63.64 eV) was lower than CoAl-LDH (−59.82 eV), NiAl-LDH (−60.24 eV), and ZnAl-LDH (−60.72 eV), as lattice energy reflected the material's stability. Moreover, the Gibbs free energy change of the isomorphic substitution of Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (−12.75 eV) was lower than that of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (−8.74 eV), Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (−9.08 eV), and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (−9.67 eV). In summary, as C0 increased from low (10–150 ppm) to high (150–800 ppm), the adsorption product transitioned from high-entropy LDH to CuFe-LDH doped with Co2<sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (Figure 1f). Considering that metal concentrations in actual wastewater are mostly low, the high-entropy LDH products obtained at low concentrations were further utilized for resource recovery.[\[2a\]](#page-8-0)

#### **2.2. Structural Characterization**

To gain a deeper understanding of the structure of the highentropy LDH product, a number of detailed characterizations were conducted. High-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) observed that the interplanar spacing of Ca-CoNiCuZnFe was 0.21 nm, corresponding to the (024) crystal plane, which was smaller than the 0.24 nm spacing of CaFe (**Figure 2**[a,b\)](#page-3-0). This was due to the smaller ionic radii of Co2<sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> compared to Ca<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.99 Å), which was consistent with the XRD findings. The energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping showed a uniform distribution of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> elements on LDH without aggregation (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). The EDS images of CaNiCuZnFe, Ca-CoCuZnFe, CaCoNiZnFe, and CaCoNiCuFe were displayed in Figure S7 (Supporting Information). The X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) was used to examine the local coordination environment of elements in samples. Figure [2d](#page-3-0) exhibited Fourier transform (FT) EXAFS spectra for Fe K-edge. CaFe showed the first shell peak at 1.5 Å and the second shell at 3.0 Å corresponding to the Fe-O and Fe-O-M scattering path, respectively. The

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** HRTEM images of a) CaFe and b) CaCoNiCuZnFe; c) elemental mappings of Co2+, Ni2<sup>+</sup>, Cu2<sup>+</sup>, Zn2<sup>+</sup> for CaCoNiCuZnFe; d) FT EXAFS spectra of Fe K-edge with *k*4-weight; e) WT EXAFS spectra of Fe K-edge; f) lattice strain (xx) obtained from GPA of HRTEM images.

bond length of Fe-O and Fe-O-M were 1.98 Å and 3.40 Å (Table S4, Supporting Information). Likewise, for CaCoNiCuZnFe, it was revealed that the bond length of Fe-O (1.95 Å) was shorter than CaFe, implying the existence of a distorted structure due to the introduction of heavy metals of different sizes. A similar shift was obtained for the Fe-O-M shell, which can be attributed to the distorted structure and the smaller radii of the heavy metals, further confirming the mechanism of isomorphic substitution. Simultaneously, the Wavelet transform (WT) analysis of EX-AFS in Figure 2e provided evidence for this fact. From the fitting results of R-space spectra, the coordination number (*CN*) of the Fe-O-M shell decreased from 5.3 for CaFe to 2.9 for CaCoNiCuZnFe, meaning more metal vacancies after adsorption, which was due to the aforementioned dissolution of Ca2<sup>+</sup>. In addition, The Debye-Waller factor (2) of CaCoNiCuZnFe (0.0085 Å) was higher than that of CaFe (0.0032 Å), indicating a greater degree of structural disorder, which corresponded to the poor crystallinity observed in the XRD results. The lattice distortion was also visually manifested by geometric phase analysis (GPA), as shown in Figure 2f. Therefore, combining ICP, XAFS, and GPA results, it was demonstrated that adsorption introduced metal vacancies and lattice distortion emerged after adsorption.

#### **2.3. Electronic Properties of High-Entropy LDH**

To unravel the surface electronic structure of high entropy LDH, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) were performed. Our research was limited to Co, Ni, and Fe as active sites because NiFe-LDH and CoFe-LDH were the most active electrocatalysts for alkaline OER.[\[20\]](#page-8-0) In **Figure 3**[a,](#page-4-0) compared to precursor CoCl2·6H2O (781.9 eV), the Co 2p3/2 peak of CaCoNiCuZnFe showed an obviously negative shift to 779.5 eV, indicating that lattice distortion induced a reduction in the electron density on Co.[\[21\]](#page-8-0) The same trend was observed on Ni in Figure [3b.](#page-4-0) The Ni 2p3/2 peaks located at 854.3 and 851.4 eV for CaCoNiCuZnFe and NiCl2·6H2O, respectively,[\[22\]](#page-8-0) this positive shift of binding energy meant a higher chemical state of Ni.[\[23\]](#page-8-0) In the XANES Fe K-edge spectra, the absorption edge of CaCoNiCuZnFe shifted to a lower energy compared to CaFe, manifesting that the average oxidation state of Fe in CaCoNiCuZnFe was lower than that in CaFe (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0). XPS also detected the reduced oxidation state of Fe (Figure S8, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [3d,](#page-4-0) it was evident that compared to CaFe (535.2 eV), the O 1s peak of CaCoNiCuZnFe shifted to a lower binding energy (531.1 eV), indicating an increase in electron density on the O. Based on the above results, lattice distortion induced the transfer of electrons from Co and Ni sites to Fe sites through the Co/Ni-O-Fe structure, resulting in an enhanced covalency of Co/Ni-O.[\[24\]](#page-8-0) Additionally, the electronic structure of O was examined using O Kedge XAS (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0). In CaFe, peak A at 534.1 eV originated from the covalent interaction between Fe 3d and O 2p orbitals.[\[25\]](#page-8-0) The enhanced intensity of peak A in CaCoNiCuZnFe suggested that heavy metal substitution has occurred at the Ca site, rather than the formation of new electronic states within the LDH structure, aligning with the mechanism of isomorphic substitution mentioned earlier. Peak B at 541.4 eV in CaFe, arose from the hybridization of transition metal 4sp and O 2p orbitals. In Ca-CoNiCuZnFe, this peak shifted to higher energy, indicating an increase in the average oxidation state of the transition metal.[\[26\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, the charge density difference confirmed the clear

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) XPS spectra of Co 2p for CaCoNiCuZnFe and CoCl2·6H2O; b) XPS spectra of Ni 2p for CaCoNiCuZnFe and NiCl2·6H2O; c) Fe K-edge XANES spectra; d) XPS spectra of O 1s for CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe; e) O K-edge XANES spectra; f) the charge density difference of CaCoNiCuZnFe.

transfer of electrons from the Ni and Co sites to the Fe site in CaCoNiCuZnFe, agreeing well with the observations from XPS analysis (Figure 3f).

#### **2.4. Resource Reutilization on OER**

The electrocatalytic OER performance of CaFe and CaCoNiCuZnFe was assessed in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte at room temperature, with CaNiCuZnFe, CaCoCuZnFe, CaCoNiZnFe and Ca-CoNiCuFe as comparisons. Linear scan voltammetry (LSV) was performed at a sweep rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with 95% iR compensation. As shown in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-5-0) the samples followed the OER catalytic activity orders of CaCoNiCuZnFe *>* CaCoCuZnFe *>* CaNiCuZnFe *>* CaCoNiZnFe *>* CaFe. As shown in Figure [4b,](#page-5-0) CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited an excellent OER performance with an overpotential of 310.7 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> which was much lower than CaFe (767.8 mV), demonstrating the feasibility of resource recovery from adsorption products (Table S5, Supporting Information). This performance surpassed that of other previously reported catalysts. Furthermore, from Figure [4c,d,](#page-5-0) Figure S9, and Table S6 (Supporting Information), the CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited the smallest Tafel slope of 62.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and the lowest charge transfer impedance (Rct, 3.7 Ω), revealing its most rapid OER kinetics.[\[27\]](#page-8-0) The double-layer capacitance (Cdl) was measured to assess the electrochemical active surface areas (ECSA) using cyclic voltammetry in the non-Faradaic region (Figure [4e;](#page-5-0) Figure S10, Supporting Information). CaCoNiCuZnFe demonstrated the highest Cdl value of 209.8 μF cm<sup>−</sup>2, which was 2.3 times that of CaFe (90.0 μF cm<sup>−</sup>2), demonstrating a greater number of exposed active sites. However, the current density of CaCoNiCuZnFe was 198.4 times that of CaFe, suggesting that its great catalytic activity was not only due to the increased number of active sites but was also largely attributed to the enhancement of intrinsic activity.[\[28\]](#page-8-0) The ECSA-normalized LSV showed that CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited the best OER performance, indicating its higher intrinsic activity (Figure S11 and Table S7, Supporting Information).

Catalyst degradation during OER reaction can lead to performance decay and reduced stability. To evaluate this, we conducted an ICP test on the solution after 200 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles to quantify metal leaching. As shown in Figure [4f](#page-5-0) and Figure S12 (Supporting Information), the concentrations of Ca2<sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup> from CaCoNiCuZnFe were 1.58 mg L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 0.09 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, which were significantly lower than that from CaFe (7.02 and 1.50 mg L<sup>−</sup>1). Additionally, the dissolution concentrations of Co2<sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in CaCoNiCuZnFe were minimal, at 0.005 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, 0.02 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, 0.16 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, and 0.68 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, which were all within the World Health Organization's drinking water standards (with limits of 0.3 mg L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for Fe, 0.07 mg L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for Ni, 2.0 mg L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for Cu, and 3.0 mg L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for Zn), thereby preventing secondary pollution. The long-term stability of electrocatalysts was a crucial factor in the application. As shown in Figure [4g,](#page-5-0) the durability of CaFe and CaCoNiCuZnFe was evaluated using chronoamperometry at a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. After 250 h, the current density of CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited a decline of *<*1%, whereas, CaFe decreased by 28.5% after 76 h, demonstrating its excellent stability of high entropy LDH.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves, b) overpotentials at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2, c) Tafel scopes, d) electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS Nyquist plots, e) electrochemical active surface areas, f) the capacities of dissolved Fe after 60 min of CV tests of CaFe, CaNiCuZnFe, CaCoCuZnFe, CaCoNiZnFe, CaCoNiCuFe and CaCoNiCuZnFe; g) chronoamperometry tests of CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe in 1 m KOH.

#### **2.5. Exploration of Mechanism**

The high intrinsic OER activity of CaCoNiCuZnFe was further investigated in a series of experiments. Lattice distortions can drive charge transfer, which modifies the M-O covalency in Ca-CoNiCuZnFe and affects the adsorption of reaction intermediates, potentially altering the reaction mechanism. The OER reactions can be classified as concerted reactions or non-concerted reactions based on the sequence of proton and electron transfer. When the reaction order in pH was zero, it indicated a concerted proton-electron transfer pathway. A first-order reaction signified a linear dependence on proton activity, suggesting a non-concerted reaction.[\[24,29\]](#page-8-0) In the lattice oxygen mechanism (LOM) pathway, the deprotonation step was followed by a nonconcerted electron-proton transfer process with kinetics that was strongly dependent on pH.[\[30\]](#page-9-0) Therefore, we determined the reaction order (RHE) through pH-dependent experiments. As depicted in **Figure 5**[a,b,](#page-6-0) the OER activities of CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe were evaluated at different pH (12.0, 12.5, 13.0, 13.5, and 14.0). The RHE values at 1.55 V (RHE, RHE = ∂log(i)/∂pH) for CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe were calculated to be 0.98 and 0.78, respectively (Figure [5c\)](#page-6-0). The higher RHE of CaCoNiCuZnFe indicated a stronger pH dependence of its activity, suggesting the occurrence of non-concerted proton-electron transfer. CaFe followed concerted proton-electron transfer. The strong pH dependence of CaCoNiCuZnFe suggested a possible preference for the LOM pathway, while the relatively weak pH dependence of CaFe may indicate a greater tendency toward the adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM) pathway. To further verify this, we replaced the 1 m KOH electrolyte with 1 m tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAOH), using TMA<sup>+</sup> as a probe to track \*O2 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> and verify the OER mechanism. In the LOM pathway, lattice oxygen from the catalyst participated in the reaction, leading to the formation of highly reactive oxygen species (\*O2 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>) on the catalyst surface.[\[31\]](#page-9-0) The tetramethylammonium cation (TMA<sup>+</sup>) had a strong electrostatic attraction to these negatively charged oxygen

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** LSV curves of a) CaCoNiCuZnFe and b) CaFe in KOH with pH 12, 12.5, 13, 13.5, and 14; c) the logarithmic OER current density at 1.55 V versus RHE for CaFe and CaCoNiCuZnFe as a function of pH. d) LSV curves and e) overpotentials at 10 mA·cm−<sup>2</sup> for CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe in 1 m KOH and 1 m TMAOH; f) Tafel slopes of CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe in KOH to TMAOH.

species, effectively suppressing or slowing down the OER reaction. As shown in Figure 5d–f, the activity of CaFe showed a negligible change in the overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (from 767.8 to 761.8 mV) and Tafel slope (from 158.2 to 161.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating minimal formation of \*O2 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> during the OER process. In contrast, CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited a significant reduction in activity, with the overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> increasing sharply from 310.7 to 458.2 mV and the Tafel slope increasing from 62.1 to 101.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, suggesting that substantial \*O2 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> were generated and the reaction followed the LOM pathway.

#### **2.6. Theoretical Calculation**

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were conducted to uncover the underlying mechanisms behind the different OER pathways from the perspective of electronic structure. CaFe model with a Ca to Fe ratio of 2:1 was selected. The CaCoNiCuZnFe model was obtained by randomly replacing Ca atoms in the CaFe model with Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, and Ca vacancies, generating fifteen possible models, followed by optimization and selection of the most stable one (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The atomic ratio of Co:Ni:Cu:Zn was 1:1:1:1:1. The influence of covalency on the OER pathway was further investigated through crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) analysis, which provided a quantitative assessment of M-O covalency. The integrated ─COHP (─ICOHP) represented chemical bond strength, with more negative values indicating stronger bonds.[\[32\]](#page-9-0) As illustrated in **Figure 6**[a,](#page-7-0) the ─ICOHP of the Fe─O in CaFe and CaCoNiCuZnFe was −0.82 and −0.83 eV, respectively. In CaCoNiCuZnFe, the Co─O and Ni─O bonds, with ─ICOHP values of −1.28 and −1.10 eV respectively, were stronger than the Fe─O bond due to charge transfer. Notably, the Co─O bond has the smallest value, indicating the strongest adsorption for the OH\* intermediate, while the Fe─O bond has the largest value, reflecting the weakest adsorption. The Ni─O value falls in between, implying a moderate adsorption capacity for OH\*. [\[33\]](#page-9-0) In Figure [6b,](#page-7-0) the partial density of states (PDOS) revealed that the d-band center of CaFe (−3.07 eV) shifted away from the Fermi level, leading to a high occupancy of (M─O)\* antibonding orbitals, which weakened the M─O bond. In contrast, the d-band center of Ca-CoNiCuZnFe (−0.82 eV) was closer to the Fermi level, suggesting that the introduction of heavy metals can regulate the electronic structure through charge transfer, reducing the occupancy of antibonding orbitals and thereby enhancing the M─O covalency.[\[34\]](#page-9-0) In addition to the influence of lattice distortion enhancing M─O covalency on the OER pathway, it was also worth considering the impact of metal vacancies in the reaction. The metal vacancies can lead to electron density accumulation on the O atoms, resulting in the formation of non-bonding oxygen states (ONB), which triggers the activation of lattice oxygen.[\[35\]](#page-9-0) The PDOS of O 2p revealed a non-bonding oxygen band near the Fermi level in CaCoNiCuZnFe, whereas no such band was observed in CaFe (Figure [6b\)](#page-7-0).

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) COHP of the Fe─O bonds in CaFe and COHP of Fe─O, Co─O, and Ni─O bonds in CaCoNiCuZnFe; b) PDOS of CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe; c) schematic energy band of CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe caused by Mott-Hubbard splitting; d,e) Gibbs free energy diagram of OER steps for CaCoNiCuZnFe; f) schematic diagram of the LOM pathway.

Additionally, the (M─O)\* antibonding orbitals were split by d-d Coulomb interactions into an empty upper Hubbard band (UHB) and a filled lower Hubbard band (LHB). The distance between the centers of the UHB and LHB band, denoted as *U*, was inversely proportional to the orbital volume and was therefore highly sensitive to the valence state of metal.[\[36\]](#page-9-0) *U* was calculated to be 5.14 eV for CaFe and 7.94 eV for CaCoNiCuZnFe. This increase was attributed to a higher oxidation state of Co/Ni due to charge transfer, which consequently led to a reduction in orbital volume. For CaFe, the UHB and LHB are −4.31 and 0.83 eV, respectively, while for CaCoNiCuZnFe, they were −6.90 and 1.04 eV. The downshift of the LHB and the formation of ONB made electrons more likely to be removed from ONB, facilitating the LOM pathway (Figure 6c).[\[32\]](#page-9-0)

The reaction pathway was analyzed through DFT calculations. First, the active sites of CaCoNiCuZnFe were screened via the AEM pathway by calculating the free energies of OH\*, O\*, and OOH\* intermediates at the Co, Ni, and Fe sites, respectively. First, the Co, Ni, and Fe sites were selected for active site analysis (Figure S14, Supporting Information). Figure 6d exhibited the free energies of OH\*, O\*, and OOH\* at the Co, Ni, and Fe sites, respectively. For the Co site, the rate-determining step (RDS) was the deprotonation of OH\* to form O\*, with an energy barrier of 2.72 eV. In contrast, the RDS for the Ni and Fe sites were the attack of OH<sup>−</sup> on O\* to form OOH\*, with energy barriers of 0.80 and 1.62 eV, respectively. The difference in the RDS of the Co site arose from variations in M─O covalency. Compared to Ni─O and Fe─O, the Co─O covalency was the strongest, leading to the strongest OH\* adsorption and making deprotonation more difficult. In contrast, the moderate covalency of Ni─O was most favorable for OH\* deprotonation and subsequent OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption, resulting in the lowest energy barrier. This result was consistent with OER performance. Therefore, the Ni site was identified as the active site for OER pathway calculation. We further calculated the AEM and LOM reaction pathways for CaCoNiCuZnFe and CaFe separately (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information). For CaCoNiCuZnFe, the RDS in LOM was the formation of OOH\* with a lower energy barrier, decreasing from 0.80 eV for AEM to 0.69 eV (Figure 6e,f). In contrast, the AEM pathway (7.24 eV) for CaFe exhibits a lower energy barrier than LOM (7.98 eV, Figures S17 and S18, Supporting Information). This result aligned with experimental findings, indicating that the generation of ONB and enhanced M─O covalency contributed to increased intrinsic activity, affecting the adsorption of intermediates and thereby altering the reaction pathway to LOM.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we reported that CaFe can efficiently remove Co2<sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> from multi-metal contaminated wastewater with removal efficiencies of 98.0%, 98.6%, 100%, and 100%, respectively. These metals were mineralized to form CaCoNiCuZnFe high-entropy LDH by isomorphic substitution of Ca<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> on the laminate of CaFe. Combined XPS and XAFS analysis indicated that the different sizes of metals led to lattice distortion, inducing the transfer of electrons from Co and Ni sites to Fe sites through the Co/Ni-O-Fe structure, resulting in an enhanced covalency of Co/Ni-O. Meanwhile, the significant dissolution of Ca<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> led to the generation of metal vacancies. The CaCoNiCuZnFe exhibited good OER performance with an overpotential of 310.7 mV

<span id="page-8-0"></span>at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. DFT calculations quantitatively revealed that the moderate covalency of Ni─O was most favorable for OH\* deprotonation and OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption, resulting in the lowest energy barrier for OOH\* formation, thus shifting the reaction pathway toward the LOM direction. The metal vacancies facilitated the generation of ONB, making it more likely for electrons to be removed from ONB, promoting the LOM pathway. The high-entropy characteristics endowed CaCoNiCuZnFe with excellent stability, achieving long-term stability for 250 h without causing secondary pollution. This study demonstrates the applicability of LDHs in the treatment of multi-metal wastewater and provides a promising pathway for resource utilization.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22178019, 22208013, 22378012, 22288102) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (XK1802-6, XK1803-05, XK1902). The authors thank the 1W1B station in the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) and BL11B station in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) for XAFS measurement.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

# **Keywords**

coexisting metal ions, electrocatalysis, layered double hydroxides, oxygen evolution reaction, resource utilization

> Received: November 19, 2024 Revised: January 18, 2025 Published online: February 12, 2025

- [1] E. V. volume, Global EV sales for 2023, [https://ev-volumes.com/](https://ev-volumes.com/news/ev/global-ev-sales-for-2023/) [news/ev/global-ev-sales-for-2023/](https://ev-volumes.com/news/ev/global-ev-sales-for-2023/) (accessed: January 2024).
- [2] a) M. Muravyov, A. Panyushkina, A. Bulaev, N. Fomchenko, *Miner. Eng.* **2021**, *170*, 107040; b) N. Faris, A. J. Fischmann, S. Assmann, L. A. Jones, J. Tardio, S. Madapusi, S. Grocott, S. Bhargava, *Hydrometallurgy* **2021**, *202*, 105604.
- [3] W. Xiao, X. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Li, *Sep. Purif. Technol.* **2021**, *270*, 118789.
- [4] a) H. Wang, Z. Wang, R. Yue, F. Gao, R. Ren, J. Wei, X. Wang, Z. Kong, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *383*, 123107; b) J.-W. Liu, T. Fu, G.-D. Sun, X.-R. Shen, S. Liu, Y. He, Y. Xu, H.-Z. Zhao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *472*, 145005.

- [5] a) J. Li, Y. Song, D. Xu, X. Zhang, J. Du, R. Liu, R. Zhao, Q. Chen, A. Volodine, R. Dewil, Q. Gao, B. Van der Bruggen, *J. Membr. Sci.* **2024**, *708*, 123079; b) D. Guimarães, V. A. Leão, *J. Hazard. Mater.* **2014**, *280*, 209; c) W. Dou, Z. Zhou, L. M. Jiang, A. Jiang, R. Huang, X. Tian, W. Zhang, D. Chen, *J. Environ. Manag.* **2017**, *196*, 518.
- [6] J. Song, Z. Huang, M. Gamal El-Din, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *421*, 129937.
- [7] a) Y. Wang, W. Chen, X. Yang, A. Li, T. Lu, G. Qiu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *498*, 155463; b) T. Wu, X. Chen, H. Zhang, M. Zhao, L. Huang, J. Yan, M. Su, X. Liu, *Sep. Purif. Technol.* **2023**, *304*, 122284.
- [8] H. Ganji, M. Taghavijeloudar, S. R. Khodashenas, *J. Water Process Eng.* **2024**, *67*, 106061.
- [9] R.-S. Juang, W.-Z. Huang, C.-C. Fu, *Sep. Purif. Technol.* **2024**, *348*, 127735.
- [10] C. M. van Genuchten, H. Hamaekers, D. Fraiquin, S. Hollanders, A. Ahmad, *Water Res.* **2023**, *245*, 120583.
- [11] a) G. Fan, F. Li, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2014**, *43*, 7040; b) Q. Li, Z. Wu, S. Bai, Y. Liu, J. Li, Y. F. Song, *Chem.-Eur. J.* **2023**, *29*, 202300050.
- [12] T. He, Q. Li, T. Lin, J. Li, S. Bai, S. An, X. Kong, Y.-F. Song, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *462*, 142041.
- [13] C. Deng, T. Wang, P. Wu, W. Zhu, S. Dai, *Nano Energy* **2024**, *120*, 109153.
- [14] a) Y. Xin, S. Li, Y. Qian, W. Zhu, H. Yuan, P. Jiang, R. Guo, L. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11280; b) E. P. George, D. Raabe, R. O. Ritchie, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2019**, *4*, 515.
- [15] Q. Yin, D. Rao, G. Zhang, Y. Zhao, J. Han, K. Lin, L. Zheng, J. Zhang, J. Zhou, M. Wei, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1900983.
- [16] a) K. Wei, H. Li, H. Gu, X. Liu, C. Ling, S. Cao, M. Li, M. Liao, X. Peng, Y. Shi, W. Shen, C. Liang, Z. Ai, L. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200498; b) M. Li, H. Shang, H. Li, Y. Hong, C. Ling, K. Wei, B. Zhou, C. Mao, Z. Ai, L. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 17115.
- [17] Y. Fu, F. Ning, S. Xu, H. An, M. Shao, M. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 3907.
- [18] J. Wang, X. Kong, M. Yang, W. Xiong, Z. Li, H. Zhou, G. I. N. Waterhouse, S.-M. Xu, H. Yan, Y.-F. Song, H. Duan, Y. Zhao, *Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.* **2022**, *62*, 365.
- [19] X.-J. Zhao, S.-M. Xu, P. Yin, J.-Y. Guo, W. Zhang, Y. Jie, H. Yan, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *451*, 138500.
- [20] a) F. Dionigi, Z. Zeng, I. Sinev, T. Merzdorf, S. Deshpande, M. B. Lopez, S. Kunze, I. Zegkinoglou, H. Sarodnik, D. Fan, A. Bergmann, J. Drnec, J. F. Araujo, M. Gliech, D. Teschner, J. Zhu, W. X. Li, J. Greeley, B. R. Cuenya, P. Strasser, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2522; b) C. Yue, L. Wang, H. Wang, J. Du, M. Lei, M. Pu, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2022**, *126*, 18351.
- [21] Y. Zhang, W. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Gao, Q. Zhao, J. Li, G. Liu, *Small* **2024**, 2405080.
- [22] a) A. P. Grosvenor, M. C. Biesinger, R. S. C. Smart, N. S. McIntyre, *Surf. Sci.* **2006**, *600*, 1771; b) P. S. Bagus, C. J. Nelin, C. R. Brundle, B. V. Crist, E. S. Ilton, N. Lahiri, K. M. Rosso, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 18077; c) M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, A. P. Grosvenor, L. W. M. Lau, A. R. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2011**, *257*, 2717.
- [23] Y. Zhao, P. Zhang, J. Liang, X. Xia, L. Ren, L. Song, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204320.
- [24] S. Xin, Y. Tang, B. Jia, Z. Zhang, C. Li, R. Bao, C. Li, J. Yi, J. Wang, T. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2305243.
- [25] X. Sun, G. Liu, T. Shen, Y. Hu, Z. Song, Z. Wu, Q. Li, L. Zheng, W. Chen, Y. F. Song, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2310857.
- [26] W. Guo, C. Dun, C. Yu, X. Song, F. Yang, W. Kuang, Y. Xie, S. Li, Z. Wang, J. Yu, G. Fu, J. Guo, M. A. Marcus, J. J. Urban, Q. Zhang, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1409.
- [27] T. Kavinkumar, H. Yang, A. T. Sivagurunathan, H. Jeong, J. W. Han, D. H. Kim, *Small* **2023**, 19.
- [28] S. Sun, X. Zhou, B. Cong, W. Hong, G. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 9086.

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>[29] L. Giordano, B. Han, M. Risch, W. T. Hong, R. R. Rao, K. A. Stoerzinger, Y. Shao-Horn, *Catal. Today* **2016**, *262*, 2.
- [30] L. B. Liu, Y. F. Tang, S. Liu, M. Yu, Y. Sun, X. Z. Fu, J. L. Luo, S. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, 2402967.
- [31] J. Han, H. Wang, Y. Wang, H. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Xia, J. Zhou, Z. Wang, M. Luo, Y. Wang, N. Wang, E. Cortés, Z. Wang, A. Vomiero, Z. F. Huang, H. Ren, X. Yuan, S. Chen, D. Feng, X. Sun, Y. Liu, H. Liang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202405839.
- [32] Z. He, J. Zhang, Z. Gong, H. Lei, D. Zhou, N. Zhang, W. Mai, S. Zhao, Y. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2191.
- [33] Y. Zhang, T. Wang, L. Mei, R. Yang, W. Guo, H. Li, Z. Zeng, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2024**, *16*, 180.
- [34] a) X. Zhang, D. Gao, B. Zhu, B. Cheng, J. Yu, H. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 3212; b) Y. Qin, T. Yu, S. Deng, X. Y. Zhou, D. Lin, Q. Zhang, Z. Jin, D. Zhang, Y. B. He, H. J. Qiu, L. He, F. Kang, K. Li, T. Y. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3784.
- [35] W. K. Han, J. X. Wei, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, X. Peng, S. Zhao, Z. Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202206050.
- [36] Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 329.