---
source: Liu 等 - 2019 - Bio‐Inspired Synthesis of Hematite Mesocrystals by Using Xonotlite Nanowires as Growth Modifiers and.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.687s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:19:22.962058Z
---

## **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Bio-Inspired Synthesis of Hematite Mesocrystals by Using Xonotlite Nanowires as Growth Modifiers and Their Improved Oxygen Evolution Activity

**Authors:** Shu-Hong Yu, Yang-Yi Liu, Fu-Jia Chang, Huai-Ling Gao, Si-Ming Chen, Min-Rui Gao, Ya-Rong Zheng, Helmut Cölfen, and Chuan-Xin He

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.201900861

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201900861

# **Bio-Inspired Synthesis of Hematite Mesocrystals by Using Xonotlite Nanowires as Growth Modifiers and Their Improved Oxygen Evolution Activity**

Yang-Yi Liu,[a, b] Fu-Jia Chang,[b] Huai-Ling Gao,[b] Si-Ming Chen[b] , Min-Rui Gao,[b] Ya-Rong Zheng, Helmut Cölfen, [c] Chuan-Xin He\* [a] and Shu-Hong Yu\*[b]

**Abstract:** Bio-inspired synthesis of functional materials with highly ordered structure and tunable properties is of particular interest, but efficient approaches that allow the access of these materials are still limited. We describe here a novel method for the preparation of hematite particles by using xonotlite nanowires (XNWs) as growth modifiers. The concentration of the XNWs has a profound effect on the final morphology of the products, while the concentration of the iron(III) ions can significantly control the size of the hematite particles. Moreover, the underlying mechanism of such XNWs modified bioinspired mineralization process has been proposed. Remarkably, the obtained hematite particles exhibit good oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalytic performance. They can afford a current density of 10 mA cm-2 with an overpotential of 370 mV, a small Tafel slope of 65 mV decade-1 and show good stability in alkaline electrolyte. Such strategy preparing functional materials by using nanowires as the growth modifiers can be applied for constructing various materials with hierarchical structures and excellent performance in the future.

Bio-inspired morphosynthesis of inorganic crystals or inorganic/organic hybrid materials has received much attention recently, not only for their fascinating structures,[1] but also for the improved properties that can benefit applications in diverse fields.[2] Up to now, numerous inorganic materials with controlled morphologies have been developed by using various additives,[3] such as Langmuir monolayers,[4] self-assembled monolayers,[5] small organic molecules,[6] polymers [7] and block copolymers.[8] Moreover, recent research has demonstrated that charged ultrathin inorganic nanowires are analogous to macromolecules or aggregated assemblies of polymers.[9] These nanostructures show a polymer-comparable size, their conformation exhibit diversity and tunability comparable to that of bio-molecules.[9b] Accordingly, the question how to fabricate inorganic materials under the directing influence of ultrathin NWs has become a critical problem, because in such process the charges on the

ultrathin NWs could affect the nucleation and growth of inorganic crystals, which is analogous to the biomineralization process controlled by bio-macromolecules. For example, tellurium (Te) NWs can be seen as supermolecule analogues to control the formation of amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) NWs[10] and ACC nanosheets,[11] where the surface charges on the Te NWs can determine the phase and the structure of the final products.

Recently, hematite (α-Fe2O3) has received significant interest because it is cost-effective, abundant and thermodynamically stable and a semiconductor (E<sup>g</sup> = ~2.1 eV). Therefore, it has been studied in diverse fields[12], including lithium-ion batteries[13], lightinduced water splitting,[14] catalysis[15] and solar cells.[16] However, the electrocatalytic activity of hematite for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is hindered by several factors such as poor electrical conductivity and slow kinetics. To address these limitations and improve its catalytic activity, enormous efforts have been devoted to the development of hematite nanostructures by enhancing its specific surface area [17] or doping other elements. [14a, 18] However, the synthesis of hematite mesocrystals with highly hierarchical structure and good OER activity is still challenging. It requires to balance the relationship between the structure and the performance. Recent studies demonstrated that structural factors such as the crystalline, morphology and specific surface area have profound influence on the properties of hematite-based materials.[19] However, it is desirable to develop a novel and simple strategy for obtaining hematite-based materials with highly hierarchical structures and good catalytic activity.

Herein, inspired by the molecular control of biomineralization processes, xonotlite nanowires (XNWs) were used as supermolecule analogues to direct the mineralization process of hematite particles (HPs). [20] The morphology and the size of the products can be modulated by altering the concentration of the XNWs and the iron source, respectively. The formation mechanism for such HPs is proposed. Strikingly, these HPs can be used as highly efficient electrocatalysts for OER, which showed a small overpotential of 370 mV at the current density of 10 mA cm-2 , a Tafel slope of 65 mV decade-1 and good durability in alkaline electrolyte.

HPs were obtained through a hydrothermal process at 160 °C by using XNWs with a diameter of ~20 nm as modifiers (Figure S1) and FeCl<sup>3</sup> as iron source (Experimental Section). All the peaks in the X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) pattern of the products can be indexed to pure hematite phase (JCPDF NO. 33-0664, Figure S2a). The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis further demonstrates the hematite nature of the products (Figures S2b, c). All the peaks in the Fe 2p3/2 spectrum (Figure S2c) can be assigned to Fe(III) ions in Fe2O3. [18a] Field-emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were used to characterize the morphology of the as-

<sup>[</sup>a] Dr C. X. He and Dr. Y. Y. Liu

College of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Shenzhen University

Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518060, P. R. China. E-mail: hecx@szu.edu.cn

<sup>[</sup>b] Prof. Dr. S. H. Yu, Dr. Y. Y. Liu, Mrs. F. J. Chang, Dr. H. L. Gao, Mr. S. M. Cheng, Prof. Dr. M. R. Gao, Dr. Y. R. Zheng Division of Biomimetic Nanomaterials and Chemistry, Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale, CAS Center for Excellence in Nanoscience, Department of Chemistry, University of Science and Technology of China E-mail: [shyu@ustc.edu.cn](mailto:shyu@ustc.edu.cn)

<sup>[</sup>c] Prof. Dr. H. Cölfen

Physical Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Konstanz Universitätsstraße 10, Box 714, D-78457 Konstanz

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

prepared HPs. From Figures 1a and c, the spherical submicroscale particles can be detected. The surface of the particles is relatively rough and the particles are built from layered structures, as shown in Figure 1b. A representative highresolution TEM (HRTEM) image further proves the growth of the HPs through oriented growth with layered nanosheets (Figure 1d). The (110) lattice space (0.247 nm) and the (202) lattice space (0.210 nm) can also be clearly observed from the HRTEM image. The energy-disperse X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping images and EDX spectrum show that the Fe, Ca and Si elements are distributed on the HPs uniformly (Figures 1e and f).

**Figure 1.** The SEM (a, b) and TEM (c) images of HPs obtained after 10 h in the XNWs modified mineralization system ([XNW] = 0.06 wt %, [Fe(III)] = 0.06 mol L -1 ). (d) The HRTEM image of the edge of a representative HP. (e) The EDX mapping images of Fe, Ca and Si elements for a single HP. (f) The EDX spectrum of the obtained HPs, in which the signals of Cu and C are originated from the carbon support film and Cu grid.

In order to explore the role of the XNWs in such mineralization system, a series of control experiments was performed by varying the concentration of the XNWs from 0 to 0.1 wt % while keeping the concentration of the Fe(III) ions as 0.06 mol L -1 . Without adding XNWs, hematite crystal cubes with smooth surface were obtained (Figure 2a). When the concentration of the XNWs was relatively low (0.02 wt % and 0.04 wt %), some crystals turned to be spherical (Figure 2b and c). When the concentration of the XNWs was 0.06 wt %, hematite mesocrystals that consist of layered materials were prepared (Figure 2d). Moreover, the morphology of some products obtained at larger concentration ([XNWs] = 0.08 or 0.1 wt %) changed to ellipsoidal. In summary, when the concentration of the iron source is kept as constant, the morphology of the hematite evolves from the cubes to the spheres and then to the ellipsoids with increasing the concentration of the XNWs from 0 wt % to 0.1 wt %. These results imply that the structure of the HPs can be regulated by changing the concentration of the XNWs.

Moreover, the concentration of the Fe(III) ions was tuned by varying the concentration from 0.01 to 0.06 mol L-1 while keeping the XNWs concentration as 0.06 wt % to investigate the effect of the content of the iron source on the morphology of the products (Figure S3 and S4). When the Fe content is low (0.01 mol L-1 , Figure S3a), the product is spherical as well but the mean size is small with ~90 nm (Figure S4a). Enhancing the concentration, the size increased gradually (Figures S3b-e and S4b-e). The above data demonstrate that the size of the HPs can be controlled by tuning the concentration of the iron source (Figure S4f).

**Figure 2.** The SEM images of HPs obtained after 10 h while keeping the concentration of Fe(III) constant (0.06 mol L -1 ) with the different concentration of XNWs in the XNWs modified mineralization system: (a) 0 wt %; (b) 0.02 wt %; (c) 0.04 wt %; (d) 0.06 wt %; (e) 0.08 wt %; (f) 0.1 wt %. The insets show the magnified views of the obtained products.

To investigate the formation mechanism of the HPs, the timedependent evolution process was investigated. In the first 1.5 h, an amount of nanoribbons was formed on the surface of XNWs (Figures 3a-c, 3g and S5a-b). As the reaction went on, the size of the nanoribbons increased. The XRD patterns indicate that these nanoribbons can be assigned to pure akaganeite (β-FeOOH, JCPDF NO. 75-1594, Figure S6). From the Figures S7a-c, we can find that crystal lattices were becoming clear along with prolonging the reaction time, indicating that the crystallinity of the akaganeite crystals was improved in the first 1.5 h (Figures S7ac). From the HRTEM image of FeOOH nanoribbons obtained after reaction for 1.5 h (Figure S7c), the (240) lattice spacing (0.234 nm) and the (301) lattice spacing (0.226 nm) of akaganeite can be clearly observed. Notably, the β-FeOOH nanoribbons are composed of nanosheets that can be proven by the HRTEM technology (Figure S7d). After reaction for 1.5 h, the nanoribbons began to gather into spheroidal aggregates (Figures S5c and d). From the EDX elemental distributions in the transverse section of a representative HP, Ca and Si elements are barely observed, which demonstrates that most XNWs were etched during the mineralization process (Figures 3h and i). When the reaction time was prolonged to 1h 50 min, spheroidal aggregates consisting of the FeOOH nanoribbons began to dehydrate and formed spherical α-Fe2O<sup>3</sup> particles (Figures 3d and S6e) due to the instability of β-FeOOH under the hydrothermal condition. Further extending the reaction time, the number of β-FeOOH nanoribbons continued to reduce and the size of α-Fe2O<sup>3</sup> mesocrystals was enhanced (Figures 3e, f and S6f-h). Notably, with increasing the

,

## **COMMUNICATION**

reaction time, the uniformity of the HPs would be worse (Figure S8).

**Figure 3.** (a - f) The SEM images of products obtained in the XNWs modified mineralization system after different reaction time: (a) 0.5 h; (b) 1 h; (c) 1.5 h; (d) 2 h; (e) 2.5 h; (f) 10 h. Insets in (a) - (f) are corresponding magnified SEM or TEM images and digital photographs of products dispersed in water. (g) The representative TEM image and corresponding EDX elemental mapping images (Fe, Si, O) of XNWs coated with FeOOH nanoribbons that was obtained after 0.5 h in the XNWs modified biomineralization system. Side-view TEM image (h) and corresponding EDX elemental distributions (i) of a representative HP obtained after 10 h in the XNWs modified mineralization system.

**Scheme 1.** Schematic Illustrate of the Formation Mechanism of HPs.

According to the above illustration, the formation process of HPs in the XNWs modified mineralization system is summarized in Scheme 1. First of all, Fe(III) ions absorbed on the surface of the XNWs (Figure S9). During the initial hydrothermal process, Fe(III) ions absorbed on the XNWs are hydrolysed, the XNWs are etched partially by the hydrogen ions and the β-FeOOH nanoribbons grew along the XNWs. Subsequently, β-FeOOH nanoribbons will gather into spherical aggregates that can undergo dehydration transformation into hematite primary particles due to the unstable nature of β-FeOOH under high temperature. With the proceeding of the hydrothermal process, more β-FeOOH nanoribbons are absorbed on the surface of hematite primary particles for the further growth of HPs by Ostwald ripening,[14b] which also explains why HPs with larger size can be obtained when the concentration of Fe(III) ions is higher.

It is also worth noting that the morphology of the HPs changed from cubes to spheres and then to ellipsoids when increasing the concentration of the XNWs gradually. Without using XNWs as modifiers, most akaganeite nanostructures cannot attach on the XNWs but are inclined to assemble to thermodynamically stable hematite monocrystals with cubic shape. In the presence of XNWs, these nanoribbons can be attached on the surface of the XNWs and assembled to form the spherical mesocrystals. With increasing the concentration of the XNWs, XNWs absorbed by Fe(III) ions started to merge into bundles with larger size. We assume that these larger bundles should induce the oriented assembly of β-FeOOH along the [001] direction. As result of that, ellipsoid hematite mesocrystals are formed.

**Figure 4.** (a) *iR*-corrected polarization curves for OER on modified FTO electrodes comprising commercial RuO<sup>2</sup> and the HPs with the size of ~100 nm and ~400 nm, respectively; Inset in (a) are the digital photographs of FTO glass and FTO glass that was deposited with HPs; (b) Tafel plots (overpotential versus log current density) derived from (a); (c) ADT for the HPs with size of ~100 nm before and after 1200 cycles in 1.0 M KOH; (d) *iR*-corrected polarization curves for OER on modified FTO electrodes deposited by the products obtained after different reaction time in the XNWs induced mineralization system when the concentration of the XNWs and Fe(III) ions were 0.06 wt % and 0.01 mol L -1 respectively.

To evaluate the electrocatalytic OER properties of HPs, HPs with size of ~100 nm and ~400 nm were deposited on fluorinedoped tin oxide (FTO) glass (loading weight: ~0.2 mg cm-2 ) for linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH, respectively. For comparison, similar measurement for commercial RuO<sup>2</sup> was also performed. Potentials are reported versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). Figure 4a shows the polarization curves of above mentioned three samples, from which we can see that HPs with a size of ~100 nm exhibit greater current density and lower onset potential as compared to HPs with a size of ~400 nm but lower current density when compared to commercial RuO2. The overpotential (*η*) required for the current density of 10 mA cm-2 is often used to evaluate the catalytic activity of OER. A small *η* of 370 mV can be acquired for HPs with size of ~100 nm, which is close to commercial RuO<sup>2</sup> (overpotential

WILEY-VCH

### COMMUNICATION

of 340 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and mixed Ni-Fe catalysts (overpotential of 300 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>),<sup>[21]</sup> exhibiting most favorable OER activity even better than that of other hematite based catalysts that were investigated under sunlight condition<sup>[14a, 22]</sup>. Corresponding Tafel plots (n-log current density) are applied to evaluate the OER kinetics of the above mentioned materials (Figure 4b). The Tafel slope of HPs with a size of ~100 nm is 65 mV decade<sup>-1</sup>, which is smaller than that of commercial RuO2 and HPs with a size of ~400 nm and comparable to that of some Co-based electrocatalysts.[23] In addition, to assess the OER stability of the HPs catalysts, we performed accelerated durability test (ADT) for the HPs with a size of ~100 nm in 1.0 M KOH. After 1200 cyclic voltammetry sweeps, the *j-V* curves were almost the same as that of the initial catalyst, only with a little increase of the onset potential (Figure 4f). XPS, TEM, HRTEM and EDX technologies were further employed to demonstrate the high durability of the HPs with a size of ~100 nm (Figure S10). XPS data illustrate that all the peaks in the Fe 2p XPS spectrum can be ascribed to Fe atoms in hematite while the increase in the content of the Sn(II) atoms can also be observed in the Sn 3d XPS spectrum (Figures S10a,b and S11). TEM and HRTEM images can further illustrate such demonstration (Figures S10d-g). The morphology of the HPs can be maintained after ADT (Figure S10d) and the (006) lattice space (0.230 nm) and the (116) lattice space (0.165 nm) for hematite can also be detected from HRTEM image (Figure S10f). On the surface of the HPs, an amount of nanosheets were absorbed (Figure S10e). HRTEM image in Figure S10g shows lattice fringe of SnO (101) and (110) planes with a spacing of 0.296 nm and 0.272 nm, respectively (Figure S10g). EDX spectrum illustrates that Fe, Sn and O elements are still distributed uniformly on the HPs catalysts after

The high OER activity as well as good stability of HPs can be attributed to two aspects as follows: (i) in the sintering process, Sn content was transferred from the FTO substrate to the HPs, which can be illustrated from XPS data (Figure S11). According to a previous report, Sn dopant, as an electro donor can enhance the carrier density of HPs that can further enhance the catalytic activity<sup>[18a]</sup>; (ii) the HPs are constituted of nanosheets that can enhance the special activity because of more exposed surface atoms<sup>[24]</sup>. However, a more comprehensive mechanism for understanding the enhancement of the OER activity needs more systematic experimental data in the future.

In order to investigate the OER activities of intermediate products obtained from the XNWs modified mineralization system, iR-corrected polarization curves of samples that were obtained from XNWs modified mineralization system after different reaction time when the concentration of the XNWs and Fe(III) ions were 0.06 wt % and 0.01 mol L-1 respectively were performed (Figure 4d). All the measurements were carried out with loading samples on the FTO glass (loading weight: ~0.2 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>) without sintering. In the first 1 h 50 min of the mineralization process, the onset potential of intermediate products decreases with prolonging the reaction time duo to the formation of β-FeOOH nanoribbons that exhibit good OER activity. The sample obtained after 1 h 50 min exhibits the highest OER activity. The overpotential required for the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is only 340 mV. However, continuing to prolong the reaction time, the onset potential and the overpotential required for the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>

increases due to the transformation of  $\beta$ -FeOOH to hematite and the weak electrical conductivity of hematite. These results are consistent with aforementioned SEM and XRD data (Figures 3ac and S6).

In summary, we have reported that HPs mesocrystals can be synthesized by a hydrothermal process by using XNWs as growth modifiers. The final morphology and the size of the HPs can be controlled by altering the content of the XNWs and iron resource, respectively. The formation mechanism of such mesocrystals involving the controllable nucleation and growth process is also discussed. Moreover, HPs with a mean diameter of ~ 100 nm can serve as excellent OER catalysts with a small overpotential of ~ 370 mV at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a small Tafel slope of 65 mV decade<sup>-1</sup> and good durability in alkaline medium. The present study may offer a promising synthetic route for designing and preparing functional materials with unique structures and properties in the future.

#### **Experimental Section**

**Synthesis of XNWs.** The XNWs were synthesized according to a previous report.  $^{[20]}$  In a typical process, 0.5 M  $\text{Ca}(\text{NO}_3)_2$  solution was added to 0.5 M  $\text{Na}_2\text{SiO}_3$  solution dropwise under magnetic stirring at room temperature to obtain a white suspension that was then transferred to Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclaves and kept at 200 °C for 24 h. The obtained products were washed with deionized water (DIW) and ethanol for 3 times respectively and then redispersed in DIW to obtain XNWs solution.

Synthesis of HPs by using XNWs as growth modifiers. In a typical procedure, FeCl $_3$ -6H $_2$ O was dissolved in 25 mL of XNWs solution (0.06 wt %), in which the final Fe(III) ion concentration is in the range from 0.01 to 0.06 mol L $^{-1}$ . Then the solution was transferred to the Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclaves. The glass substrates coated with FTO that were washed sequentially with DIW, acetone and ethanol for two times were soaked in the above freshly prepared solution and kept at 160 °C for 10 h. After the hydrothermal treatment, HPs were deposited on the FTO substrates. Lastly, the FTO substrates with deposited HPs were annealed in the air at 550 °C for 4 h.

Physicochemical Characterization. TEM was performed on H-7650 (Hitachi, Japan) with an acceleration voltage of 100 kV. HRTEM and EDX were performed on a Talos F200X and a JEM-ARM200F transmission electron microscope with an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. SEM was performed on a field emission scanning electron microanalyzer (Zeiss Supra 40) whose acceleration voltage was 5 kV. XRD analysis was carried out on a Philips X'Pert PRO SUPER X-ray diffractometer equipped with graphite-monochromatized Cu Kα radiation. XPS characterization was performed on a ESCALAB MK II X-ray photoelectron spectrometer.

**Electrochemical Measurements.** Electrochemical measurements were performed on a CHI 760D electrochemical workstation in 1.0 M KOH solution at room temperature. A platinum foil was used as counter electrode while a Ag/AgCl electrode was used as reference electrode. Potentials versus RHE were obtained through the relationship  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm Ag/AgCl} + 0.0591 \times \rm pH + 0.1976 \ V$ . The electrolyte was degassed before the electrochemical measurement by bubbling oxygen for 30 min. We sweep the potential from -0.5 to 0.8 V vs. Ag/AgCl to get the polarization curves with a sweep rate of 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. All polarization curves were corrected with 90% *iR*-compensation. The impendence (R) was consistent (~4 ohms in 1.0 KOH solution) at multiple potential points. The accelerated stability tests were obtained by potential cycling between -0.5 and 0.8 V

vs. Ag/AgCl for 1200 times with a sweep rate of 100 mV s-1 . The electrode resulting from the end of each cycling was used for polarization curves.

#### **Acknowledgements**

We acknowledge the funding support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant 21761132008,21431006, 21805192), the Foundation for Innovative Research Groups of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant 21521001), Key Research Program of Frontier Sciences, CAS (Grant QYZDJ-SSW-SLH036), and the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Grant KJZD-EW-M01-1). C. X. He acknowledges the funding support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants 21374064, 21574084) and Shenzhen Government's Plan of Science and Technology (Grants JCYJ20140418182819151, JCYJ20160308104704791).

**Keywords:** bio-inspired • xonotlite nanowires • hematite mesocrystals • formation mechanism • electrocatalytic activity for oxygen evolution reaction

- [1] a) B. Kowalczyk, K. J. M. Bishop, I. Lagzi, D. Wang, Y. Wei, S. Han, B. A. Grzybowski, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 227-232; b) S. Kim, S. H. Ku, S. Y. Lim, J. H. Kim, C. B. Park, *Adv. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 2009-2014; c) S.-H. Yu, in *Biomineralization II: Mineralization Using Synthetic Polymers and Templates* (Ed.: K. Naka), Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, **2007**, pp. 79-118.
- [2] a) S. Kim, C. B. Park, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2013**, *23*, 10-25; b) W. L. Noorduin, A. Grinthal, L. Mahadevan, J. Aizenberg, *Science* **2013**, *340*, 832-837; c) J. Huang, L. Lin, D. Sun, H. Chen, D. Yang, Q. Li, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 6330-6374.
- [3] R.-Q. Song, H. Colfen, *CrystEngComm* **2011**, *13*, 1249-1276.
- [4] C. Li, G. Hong, P. Wang, D. Yu, L. Qi, *Chem. Mater.* **2009**, *21*, 891-897.
- [5] J. C. Love, L. A. Estroff, J. K. Kriebel, R. G. Nuzzo, G. M. Whitesides, *Chem. Rev.* **2005**, *105*, 1103-1170.
- [6] Z. R. Tian, J. A. Voigt, J. Liu, B. McKenzie, M. J. McDermott, M. A. Rodriguez, H. Konishi, H. Xu, *Nat. Mater.* **2003**, *2*, 821-826.
- [7] S. H. Yu, H. Colfen, *J. Mater. Chem.* **2004**, *14*, 2124-2147.
- [8] a) Z. Sun, T. Liao, Y. Dou, S. M. Hwang, M.-S. Park, L. Jiang, J. H. Kim, S. X. Dou, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*; b) S. H. Yu, H. Colfen, A. Fischer, *Colloid Surfaces A* **2004**, *243*, 49-52; c) S. F. Chen, J. H. Zhu, J. Jiang, G. B. Cai, S. H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2010**, *22*, 540-545; d) S. H. Yu, H. Colfen, K. Tauer, M. Antonietti, *Nat. Mater.* **2005**, *4*, 51-55.
- [9] a) S. Shaw, L. Cademartiri, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 4829-4844; b) S. Hu, H. Liu, P. Wang, X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 11115-11124; c) L. Cademartiri, G. Guerin, K. J. M. Bishop, M. A. Winnik, G. A. Ozin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 9327-9334.
- [10] Y.-Y. Liu, L. Liu, L. Xue, L.-B. Mao, H.-L. Gao, L. Xu, S.-H. Yu, *ChemNanoMat* **2016**, *2*, 259-263.
- [11] Y.-Y. Liu, L. Liu, S.-M. Chen, F.-J. Chang, L.-B. Mao, H.-L. Gao, T. Ma, S.-H. Yu, *Langmuir* **2018**, *34*, 5813-5820.
- [12] D. A. Wheeler, G. Wang, Y. Ling, Y. Li, J. Z. Zhang, *Energ. Environ. Sci.*  **2012**, *5*, 6682-6702.
- [13] a) H. Zhou, R. E. Ruther, J. Adcock, W. Zhou, S. Dai, J. Nanda, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, 2530-2539; b) H. Zhang, L. Zhou, O. Noonan, D. J. Martin, A. K. Whittaker, C. Yu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2014**, *24*, 4337-4342; c) L. Zhang, H. B. Wu, S. Madhavi, H. H. Hng, X. W. Lou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*  **2012**, *134*, 17388-17391.
- [14] a) W. Li, S. W. Sheehan, D. He, Y. He, X. Yao, R. L. Grimm, G. W. Brudvig, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 11428-11432; b) X.

- Fei, W. Li, Z. Shao, S. Seeger, D. Zhao, X. Chen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*,15781-15786 c) J.-W. Jang, C. Du, Y. Ye, Y. Lin, X. Yao, J. Thorne, E. Liu, G. McMahon, J. Zhu, A. Javey, J. Guo, D. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*; d) S. C. Warren, K. Voïtchovsky, H. Dotan, C. M. Leroy, M. Cornuz, F. Stellacci, C. Hébert, A. Rothschild, M. Grätzel, *Nat. Mater.* **2013**, *12*, 842-849.
- [15] a) X. Zhou, J. Lan, G. Liu, K. Deng, Y. Yang, G. Nie, J. Yu, L. Zhi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, 178-182; b) B. A. Balko, K. M. Clarkson *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2001**, *148*, E85-E91; c) Y. Ke, Y. Zeng, X. Pu, X. Wu, L. Li, Z. Zhu, Y. Yu, *RSC Adv.* **2012**, *2*, 5676-5682.
- [16] a) Y. Hou, D. Wang, X. H. Yang, W. Q. Fang, B. Zhang, H. F. Wang, G. Z. Lu, P. Hu, H. J. Zhao, H. G. Yang, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 1583; b) H. Niu, S. Zhang, Q. Ma, S. Qin, L. Wan, J. Xu, S. Miao, *RSC Adv.* **2013**, *3*, 17228-17235.
- [17] a) J. Zhu, Z. Yin, D. Yang, T. Sun, H. Yu, H. E. Hoster, H. H. Hng, H. Zhang, Q. Yan, *Energ. Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 987-993; b) L. Jia, P. Bogdanoff, A. Ramírez, U. Bloeck, D. Stellmach, S. Fiechter, *Adv. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *3*, 1500434; c) K. Sivula, R. Zboril, F. Le Formal, R. Robert, A. Weidenkaff, J. Tucek, J. Frydrych, M. Grätzel, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 7436-7444.
- [18] a) Y. Ling, G. Wang, D. A. Wheeler, J. Z. Zhang, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2011**, *11*, 2119-2125; b) D. K. Zhong, D. R. Gamelin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 4202-4207.
- [19] L. Machala, J. Tuček, R. Zbořil, *Chem. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 3255-3272.
- [20] K. Lin, X. Liu, J. Chang, Y. Zhu, *Nanoscale* **2011**, *3*, 3052-3055.
- [21] a) M. Görlin, P. Chernev, J. Ferreira de Araújo, T. Reier, S. Dresp, B. Paul, R. Krähnert, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 5603-5614; b) M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329-12337.
- [22] Z. Hu, Z. Shen, J. C. Yu, *Chem. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 564-572.
- [23] a) A. J. Esswein, M. J. McMurdo, P. N. Ross, A. T. Bell, T. D. Tilley, *The J Phys. Chem. C* **2009**, *113*, 15068-15072; b) Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780-786.
- [24] B. Iandolo, A. Hellman, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 13404-13408.

### **Entry for the Table of Contents**

## COMMUNICATION

**Hematite mesocrystals:** hematite mesocrystals that exhibit good oxygen evolution reaction catalytic activity can be synthesized by using xonotlite nanowires as growth modifiers through a hydrothermal process.

*Yang-Yi Liu, Fu-Jia Chang, Huai-Ling Gao, Si-Ming Chen, Min-Rui Gao, Ya-Rong Zheng, Helmut Cölfen, Chuan-Xin He\*, Shu-Hong Yu\** 

*Page No. – Page No.*

**Bio-Inspired Synthesis of Hematite Mesocrystals by Using Xonotlite Nanowires as Modifiers and Their Improved Oxygen Evolution Activity**