---
source: Liu 等 - 2023 - Fabrication of Ce‐doped Hollow NiCo2 O4 Nanoprisms with Heterointerface from M.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 48.629s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:23:44.349277Z
---

<www.chemasianj.org>

# **Fabrication of Ce-doped Hollow NiCo2O4 Nanoprisms with Heterointerface from MOF-Engaged Strategy for Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Qingyi Liu,[a] Fuyun Kang,[a] Tianyu He,[a] Liangliang Liu,\*[a] and Yu [Tang](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3933-043X)\*[a, b]

**Abstract:** The reasonable design and controlled synthesis of efficient and hollow nanocatalysts with plentiful heterointerface and fully exposed active sites to accelerate the electron transfer and mass transfer process for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is highly desirable for water splitting by electrolysis. Herein, a metal-organic framework (MOF)-engaged strategy is developed to prepare Ce-doped hollow mesoporous NiCo2O4 nanoprisms (NiCo2O4/CeO2 HNPs) for enhanced OER. Due to the advanced synthesis strategy generating a large number of interfaces between NiCo2O4 and CeO2, as well as modulated electrons of the active center by the synergistic action of multi-metals, the obtained catalyst exhibits excellent OER performance with a small overpotential of 290 mV at current density (*J*) of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Spinel/Perovskite hollow nanoprisms synthesized by a similar way demonstrates the versatility of our strategy. This work may provide new insights into the development of rare earth-doped hollow polymetallic spinel oxide catalysts.

## **Introduction**

Using electrolytic pathway to generate hydrogen from water is a promising approach to accomplish energy-conversion and decrease the excessive consumption of fossil fuels.[1] However, the oxygen evolution reaction (OER, 2H2O ! 4H<sup>+</sup> + O2 + 4e ) of the four electron transfer process has sluggish kinetics which is the key reaction in electrocatalytic water splitting.[2] Noblemetal-based materials (e.g. IrO2 and RuO2), as the most efficient OER catalysts at present, are still difficult to achieve large-scale applications.[3] Accordingly, it is imperative to develop highefficiency non-precious metal-based electrocatalysts with low cost, excellent stability and abundant reserves.[4] Recently, transition metal hydroxides,[5] nitrides,[6] oxides,[7] phosphides[8] and chalcogenides[9] as candidates for promoting the OER have become research hotspots,[10] and spinel oxides in particular have attracted much attention among various alternative options on account of their low cost-efficiency, superior OER catalytic activity and stability in alkaline media.[11] Nevertheless, the catalytic performances of spinel oxides are still confined by their low intrinsic conductivity and the limited exposed active sites, resulting in decreased kinetics and high overpotential in the OER.[11b]

To improve the electro-catalytic activity of spinel oxides, we can proceed from two aspects. First, the morphology of the catalyst can be adjusted. The structural design of spinel oxides, such as the synthesis of quantum dots[12] or nanowires/nanosheets arrays[13] or hierarchical porous/hollow structures[14] to expose more active sites and speed up the mass transport during water splitting process, has already been proved to be an effective approach to promote catalytic activity.[15] In terms of the synthesis of hollow materials, compared with the traditional hard templating method and soft templating method, which are limited by cumbersome steps, the selftemplating method has the advantages of relatively briefness synthesis steps, low cost and high product uniformity, but the precise synthesis of hollow nanomaterials with complex structure and components of is still tricky.[16] Second, designing and controlling the composition and components of catalysts is also a feasible strategy. On the one hand, regulating the metal composition and proportion of spinel, and taking advantage of the synergistic effect between different metals can tune the 3d electronic structure of the catalyst, optimize the adsorption free energy of reaction intermediate, and improve the reaction kinetics.[17] For example, compared with the corresponding mono-metallic oxides, the trimetallic NiCo2 xFexO4 nanoboxes deliver better electrocatalytic activity.[17c] On the other hand, the introduction of new components to construct heterogeneous interfaces can also be considered. Many studies have shown that rare earth element Ce and its related species (typically CeO2) have been widely used as a cocatalyst combined with the host material to improve the catalytic performance due to the unique 4f electrons and redox characteristics owing to the conversion between Ce3<sup>+</sup> and Ce<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>. [18] In order to effectively improve the electrochemical performance, it is necessary to enhance the heterojunction coupling interaction, among which, how to achieve sufficient interfacial contact between the two

[a] *Q. Liu, F. Kang, T. He, Prof. L. Liu, Prof. Y. Tang State Key Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry, Key Laboratory of Nonferrous Metal Chemistry and Resources Utilization of Gansu Province, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Lanzhou University 730000 Lanzhou (P. R. China) E-mail: tangyu@lzu.edu.cn liull@lzu.edu.cn*

[b] *Prof. Y. Tang*

*State Key Laboratory of Baiyunobo Rare Earth Resource Researches and Comprehensive Utilization*

*Baotou Research Institute of Rare Earths 014030 Baotou (P. R. China)*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/asia.202300317>*

phases is a critical but intractable challenge.<sup>[19]</sup> Thus, it is ideal to design and synthesize hollow multi-metallic spinel/ceria hetero-composites with high inherent activity, abundant interfacial and catalytic sites.

Recently, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs), with abundant pores, adjustable composition and morphology, as well as easy post-synthesis modification have been considered as effective catalysts for OER<sup>[20]</sup> and feasible precursors for direct pyrolysis synthesis of homologous spinel oxides.[11b,21] Using MOFs as precursors for catalyst synthesis will effectively enhance the exposure of active sites to the electrolyte and improve composition uniformity due to their high surface area and ordered structure. Inspired by the above considerations, we conceive that multi-component Ce-doped polymetallic spinel OER catalysts with desirable hollow structure, reasonable composition and rich heterogeneous interfaces could be constructed by means of a MOF-engaged strategy, and the correlation between structure and property will be understood based on this model. However, there are still few relevant studies at present, and it is still a challenge to realize this assumption.

In this study, Ce-doped hollow NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoprisms (NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs) through MOF-engaged strategy have been fabricated successfully. In this novel approach, a series of nickel/cobalt acetate hydroxides solid nanoprisms (Ni/Co SNPs for short) were used as self-sacrificial templates to synthesize corresponding hollow MOFs with organic ligands. Afterward, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs were obtained by ion exchange between Ce<sup>3+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>2+</sup> in hollow MOF whereafter pyrolysis in the air. The Ce-doped spinel with high specific surface area and hollow structure was successfully synthesized by MOF-engaged strategy, and the uniform dispersion of CeO<sub>2</sub> in spinel would be conducive to the production of more heterogeneous interfaces. Since the above mentioned morphology and structure advantages can effectively expose the catalytic active sites and shorten ion diffusion length, and at the same time, the interaction among different metals and different components in full contact which can adjust the electronic structure effectively, Ce-doped hollow NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoprisms deliver excellent OER properties with a small overpotential of 290 mV at current density (J) of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a small Tafel slope of 67.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>,

and long-term stability in alkaline electrolyte. Spinel/Perovskite hollow nanoprisms were also synthesized, proving the versatility of the proposed method.

### **Results and Discussion**

The synthesis of Ce-doped hollow NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanoprisms is depicted in Scheme 1. Firstly, Ni/Co precursors (Ni/Co SNPs) prepared through a precipitation method according to the previously reported procedure[22] were not only used as templates, but also as sources of metal ions to synthesize hollow Ni/Co-MOF-74 nanoprisms (Ni/Co-MOF-74 HNPs) by reacting with 2,5-dihydroxyterephthalic acid (H₄DOBDC) under solvothermal conditions. [23] After the Ce<sup>3+</sup> exchange and pyrolysis process, Ni/Co-MOF-74 HNPs were transformed into the final product NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs. From SEM images, a series of precursors with different ratios of nickel and cobalt are prismatic, smooth and uniform in size (Figure S1a-e). The solid characteristics of NiCo<sub>2</sub> SNPs could be distinctly observed by transmission electron microscope (TEM, Figure S2a, b). The XRD patterns (Figure S1f) of the synthesized Ni/Co SNPs are similar to the standard data (JCPDS NO. 22-0582), clarifying the formation of pure nickel/cobalt acetate hydroxides phase, where Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup> are randomly and uniformly distributed (Figure S2c).

Ni/Co-MOF-74 HNPs were successfully fabricated through a self-templating method using solvothermal reactions of organic ligands and Ni/Co SNPs in virtue of Kirkendall effect. As can be seen from the SEM images (Figure S3a–e), MOF-74 HNPs inherit the prism shape of the parent Ni/Co SNPs, but with a rougher morphology and larger size. It can be observed from the individual broken nanoparticles that MOF-74 HNPs have a hollow interior. The crystal structure of MOF-74 HNPs can be identified by XRD (Figure S3f), and there are no obvious peaks of precursors, indicating that the conversions are complete. TEM was conducted to investigate the inner structure of MOF-74 HNPs after the conversion process. From the TEM patterns, the hollow feature of NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs can be further demonstrated (Figure S4a, b). The elemental mapping demonstrates that the element distribution of NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs is

Scheme 1. Schematic illustration of the fabrication process of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs.

homogeneous (Figure S4c). Moreover, the ratio of Ni and Co in NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs is 1:2 calculated by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), which is showing no difference to the composition of precursors. Additionally, the Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra (Figure S5) were also measured to verify the composition of the product. The infrared adsorbing bands of NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs are consistent with the reported results. [23] The above presentations indicate that the Ni/Co-MOF-74 HNPs with different metal contents were successfully constructed using the corresponding Ni/Co SNPs as templates. MOF-74 has the characteristics of onedimensional (1D) hexagonal channels with plenty pores (Figure S6a).[24] The N<sub>2</sub> adsorption-desorption isotherm (Figure S6b) shows that NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs have a BET specific surface area as high as 534 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>, which provides the basis and possibility for the subsequent pyrolysis products with a large specific surface area.

The time-dependent experiments were carried out to explore the formation process and mechanism of hollow structures. After keeping the reaction systems at 120°C for 0 h, 0.25 h, 0.5 h, 1 h, 6 h and 12 h, the products were isolated and characterized. As shown in Figure S7, with the prolongation of reaction time, NiCo<sub>2</sub> SNPs gradually dissolve to form a granular shell. At the same time, the XRD diffraction peaks of the NiCo<sub>2</sub> SNPs disappear while the peaks of MOF-74 appear. Interestingly, there will be a yolk-shell structure in the intermediate reaction process due to incomplete conversion. When the reaction was extended to 12 hours, the precursors disappeared completely, and the morphology, cavity size and shell thickness of the final products had no distinct change when the reaction time was further extended. Besides, it can be clearly observed that the size increases obviously after the precursors are transformed into MOFs. Based on the above results, the formation process of MOF-74 HNPs can be revealed as follows. Firstly, the deprotonated DOBDC<sup>4-</sup> coordinates with Ni<sup>2+</sup> and/or Co<sup>2+</sup> cations released from the surface of precursor to form a MOF shell in situ. Subsequently, since the size of the ligand anions are larger than that of the metal cations, it is expected that the rate of outward diffusion of the latter is greater than the rate of inward diffusion of the former, leading to a void between the remaining precursor core and the newly formed MOF shell. Finally, the inner solid core is entirely etched and converted to MOF-74 with a complete cavity. On the basis of the above analysis, the conversion process from precursors to hollow MOFs is consistent with Kirkendall effect, which is essentially owing to the difference in diffusion rates between the two ions.[25]

In order to determine the optimum ratio of nickel and cobalt, the hollow MOFs prepared in the previous step were directly pyrolyzed at 300 °C in air. The spinel oxides obtained by thermolysis still remain the uniform prism-like morphology with nanoparticles anchored on the surfaces which are similar to that of MOF-74 HNPs (Figure S8a–e). The XRD patterns of the resultant products presented in Figure S8f can be attributed to the spinel phase (JCPDS NO. 73-1702) with reflection peaks at 31.1°, 36.7°, 44.6°, 59.1° and 65° that correspond to the (220), (311), (400), (511) and (440) planes, respectively. It can be

concluded from the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves that all pure spinel oxides have similar OER performance, and among a serial of catalysts, the catalyst synthesized at a nickel to cobalt ratio of 1:2 shows relatively better activity with 335 mV overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S9). Cerium doping was carried out for NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs to optimize the electrocatalytic performance. According to the SEM image, XRD patterns and FTIR spectra in Figure S10, the MOF nanoprisms obtained through the cerium ion exchange reaction at room temperature (abbreviated as NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74-Ce HNPs) have no change in morphology and crystallinity. The result of ICP measurement for the NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74-Ce HNPs confirms that the ratio of Ni, Co, and Ce is 1:2.3:0.35. The lower Ni content signifies Ni<sup>2+</sup> more easily replaced by Ce<sup>3+</sup> than Co<sup>2+</sup>, which may be related to the different formation energies of metal clusters.[26]

The final catalyst NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs was acquired by pyrolysis of cerium-doped MOF. The XRD pattern of the catalyst manifests NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> diffraction peaks, and the diffraction peak at 28.5° is indexed to the (111) plane of CeO<sub>2</sub> (JCPDS NO. 04-0593), indicating the crystalline nature of the product (Figure 1a). The diffraction peak intensity of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs is significantly weaker than that of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs, suggesting that the introduction of Ce causes the deteriorated crystallinity of spinel, which may be due to the generation of more defects caused by lattice distortion. [27] Whereafter, the structure of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs was surveyed by SEM and TEM (Figure 1b-f). The NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs maintain a uniform prism-like morphology with a length of about 600 nm and a width of about 300 nm, which is slightly smaller than that of NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74-Ce HNPs due to shrinkage caused by pyrolysis (Figure 1b). The TEM result shows that catalyst has a typical hollow structure and rough morphology with nanoparticles anchored on the surface (Figure 1c-d). Two lattice fringes with the interplanar distances of 0.314 nm and 0.27 nm are observed from the representative high-resolution TEM (HRTEM, Figure 1e) image, belonging to the (111) and (200) planes of CeO<sub>2</sub>, respectively, while the lattice fringes with a spacing of 0.245 nm can be assigned to the (311) plane of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The above results are in accordance with the XRD results in Figure 1b. Additionally, the elemental mapping manifests that the Ni, Co, Ce, and O elements were homogeneous distributed over the entire nano-framework (Figure 1f). The energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectrum (Figure S11) further confirmed the existence of Ni, Co, Ce, and O elements. The above representation indicated that CeO2 is successfully incorporated into spinel uniformly, which is different from the core-shell<sup>[28]</sup> or core-satellite structure<sup>[29]</sup> of the previous CeO2-based work, and will generate more heterogeneous interfaces, thereby improving catalytic performance.[30] Benefitting from the hollow MOF templates, the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs exhibit a high BET surface area of 78 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup> (Figure S12a), and meanwhile, mesopores were generated during the pyrolysis process (Figure S12b). The large specific surface area and hollow mesoporous structure were conducive to the exposure of more active sites and mass transfer process, which will promote the electrocatalytic water splitting.[17c] Contact angles of spinel before and after Ce-doping were also investigated to

, 12, Downloaded from https://aces.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/asia.202300317 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Cerative Commons Licensia.

Figure 1. (a) XRD patterns of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs. (b) SEM, (c, d) TEM and (e) HRTEM images of the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs. (f) HAADF-STEM image and elemental mapping images of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs.

demonstrate good hydrophilicity, which is conducive to electrolyte penetration (Figure S13).

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) were further implemented to investigate the surface electronic structure and chemical valence state of as-prepared NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs doped with or without cerium (Figure 2). As displayed in the high-resolution Ce 3d XPS spectrum (Figure 2a), Ce<sup>4+</sup> and Ce<sup>3+</sup> exist in the spinel material simultaneously. These peaks, labeled v, v', v''', v''', and u, u', u'', u''', correspond to the compositions of Ce  $3d_{5/2}$  and Ce  $3d_{3/2}$ , respectively (Figure 2a). The peaks with binding energies of 884.3 eV (v') and 903.9 eV (u') are indexed to Ce<sup>3+</sup>, while the rest of peaks are attributed to Ce<sup>4+</sup>, indicating the coexistence of Ce<sup>3+</sup> and Ce<sup>4+</sup>.[31] In addition, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs display a higher proportion of Ce<sup>3+</sup> (29%) compared with

Figure 2. High-resolution XPS spectra of (a) Ce 3d, (b) Ni  $2p_{3/2}$ , (c) Co 2p and (d) O 1s.

pure CeO<sub>2</sub> (15%), manifesting that partial electron transfer occurs at the interfaces between NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>.<sup>[32]</sup> The Ce<sup>3+</sup> species can improve conductivity and optimize the binding energy of OH\*, thereby greatly increasing the OER activity.[33] Figure 2b and 2c show the contrast of Ni and Co 2p spectra of the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs, respectively. It is worth noting that the peaks of Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> partially overlap with Ce 3d<sub>5/2</sub>, so only the peaks of Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> were analyzed here. The oxidation states of  $Ni^{2+}$  and  $Ni^{3+}$ ,  $Co^{2+}$  and  $Co^{3+}$ , are shown whether cerium is doped or not, but the peaks both clearly shifts to higher binding energies when cerium is introduced. The changes of binding energies imply that there are some strong electronic interactions between cerium, cobalt and nickel, which may cause charge redistribution on the coupling interface to improve the conductivity of the electrocatalyst. The O 1s XPS spectra (Figure 2d) of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs were also recorded and deconvolved into three peaks. The peaks located at 529.3 eV (O1), 531.9 eV (O2) and 533.6 eV (O3) are assigned to lattice oxygen, defect oxygen, and hydroxyl groups or surface-adsorbed oxygen respectively.<sup>[14b,34]</sup> The fact that the content of O2 on NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs is higher than that in NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs suggests that the existence of Ce can increase oxygen vacancies, thereby enhancing the adsorption capacity of H<sub>2</sub>O and further improving the OER performance. Notably, the introduction of Ce effectively modulates electronic structures which could alter catalytic activity, indicating that NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs have great potential for OER.

The OER performance of the optimized catalyst was further evaluated. Notably, according to the LSV curves and the overpotential histograms (Figure 3a, b), NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs show impressive OER activity with an overpotential of 290 mV to achieve current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH solutions, which is significantly better than NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs (329 mV), NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74-Ce HNPs (307 mV) and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs (335 mV).

**Figure 3.** (a) OER polarization curves, (b) overpotentials at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ , (c) Tafel slopes, (d) Nyquist plots and (e) Current density plots vs the scan rates of the as-prepared catalysts. (f) Chronopotentiometry curve of NiCo $_2$ O $_4$ /CeO $_2$  HNPs under a constant current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ .

Furthermore, as shown in Figure 3c, a lower Tafel slope of  $67.4 \text{ mV} \text{ dec}^{-1} \text{ than that of NiCo}_2\text{-MOF-74 HNPs } (75.5 \text{ mV} \text{ dec}^{-1}),$ NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74-Ce HNPs (88.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs (72.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) uncovers the faster kinetics for NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), usually used to investigate electrode kinetics and interfacial resistance, was tested at the frequency from 0.01 Hz to 100 kHz to further illustrate the OER activity in a deeper insight (Figure 3d). Nyquist plot of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs possess smallest semicircular diameter among all electrocatalysts, in agreement with the Tafel slope, verifying lower charge transfer resistance, which will accelerate electrons and mass transfer. The reinforced conductivity of the Ce-doped catalyst is attributed to the introduction of CeO<sub>2</sub> into the spinel matrix, which is beneficial for electrocatalysis. The electrochemical surfacearea (ECSA) was estimated through performing cyclic voltammetry (CV) at scanning speeds of 20, 40, 60, 80 and 100 mV·s<sup>-1</sup> in the non-Faradaic region to obtain the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ , Figure 3e, Figure S14). The  $C_{dl}$  of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs is calculated to be 21.5 mFcm<sup>-2</sup>, which is observably different from NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74 HNPs (3.5 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), NiCo<sub>2</sub>-MOF-74-Ce HNPs (6.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs (17.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating that there is a larger active surface area and active center in the electrochemical reaction. In addition, the long-term stability of electrocatalysts under alkaline conditions is an important index to be investigated. After 36 h chronopotentiometry (CP) measurement at a constant current density ( $J=10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), the OER performance of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs does not degrade dramatically (Figure 3f), showing good stability, which is critical for practical application. The morphology and composition of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs after the OER test were also tested by SEM, TEM and XRD, and it was found that the nanoprisms were basically maintained as shown in Figure S15, which also provided favorable evidence for the stability of the catalyst during the test. In short, the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs catalyst has excellent electrocatalytic activity and shows pleasant competition with the reported spinel oxide catalysts (Table S1).

Subsequently, XPS of the sample after OER test and in situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy were further executed to explore structural transition and capture the real active phase of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs in the electrocatalytic process. As shown in Figure 4a, the main peaks of the Ce 3d XPS spectrum are almost not shift, it can be speculated that the Ce only acts as a promoter and does not change before and after the reaction. The proportion of trivalent ions in both Ni and Co increases slightly, and the peaks of Co 2p move to the direction of higher binding energy (Figure 4b, c). Combined with the result of XRD (Figure S15c), it can be inferred that Ni and Co, as active species, have undergone partially oxidized, but the bulk structure of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs has not changed. This inference was further authenticated by in situ Raman test. It can be seen from Figure 4d that with the increase of the applied voltage (bias versus Ag/AgCl), the signal at 682 wavenumber belonging to CoOOH is gradually generated and strengthened. [35] The emergence of the CoOOH peak shows that the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs were reconstructed during the process of electrocatalysis, and Co-(oxy)hydroxide active species appeared. Ulteriorly, from the HRTEM images of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs after OER test, the lattice fringes with d=0.23 nm belonging to the (012) crystal plane of CoOOH were found besides the lattice fringes of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub> (Figure S16).

According to the above experimental results, the explanations for the better electrocatalytic OER activity of  $NiCo_2O_4$  hollow nanoprisms doped with Ce are as below.  $NiCo_2O_4/CeO_2$ 

Figure 4. (a–c) XPS spectra of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs before and after OER test; (d) in situ Raman spectra of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs with 532 nm excitation during OER process in 1 M KOH at various overpotentials vs. Ag/AgCl.

HNPs possess a hollow structure with a large specific surface area, which can expose more active sites and facilitate the ion/mass transfer process. Meanwhile, the doping of Ce not only creates oxygen vacancies, adjusts the electronic structure of nickel and cobalt, but also has synergistic effect with NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, which is conducive to accelerating charge transfer and improving electrochemical activity. Finally, Co-(oxy)hydroxide species oxidized from primitive NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> can be used as highly efficient active phases for OER.

Further, to verify the universality of the MOF-engaged strategy in the construction of transition metal/rare earth oxide heterogeneous materials, we replaced Ce3+ with La3+ and adopted a similar synthesis method, except that the feed ratio and pyrolysis condition were different. As in the case of Ce doping, there is no obvious change in MOF after La doping (Figure \$17). However, unlike the product obtained by Ce doping, spinel/perovskite complexes (Spinel/Perovskite HNPs for short) were produced. As shown in the XRD pattern of Figure 5a, diffracted signals of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs at 23.2°, 33.3°, 41.3°, 47.5°, and 58.9° were collected, which could be indexed to the (012), (104), (006), (024) and (214) diffraction planes of LaCoO<sub>3</sub> (JCPDS NO. 48-0123), respectively. From the results of SEM and TEM (Figure 5b, c, d, Figure S18), it can be seen that the Spinel/Perovskite HNPs show the morphology of hollow prisms with length of about 400 nm and width of about 200 nm. The selected electron diffraction pattern inserted in Figure 5d indicates that the Spinel/Perovskite HNPs have polycrystalline properties. It is found by HRTEM (Figure 5e) that lattice fringes belonging to spinel and perovskite exist at the interface, which further indicates the successful construction of heterogeneous materials. The ratio of Ni, Co and La in Spinel/ Perovskite HNPs is 1:2.7:0.74 obtained by ICP. In order to confirm the superiority of the synthesis strategy, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> hollow nanoprisms (labeled as NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HPs to distinguish them from the NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs mentioned earlier) without rare earth doping and Ni<sub>0.83</sub>Co<sub>2.17</sub>O<sub>4</sub> hollow nanoprisms (labeled as Ni<sub>0.83</sub>Co<sub>2.17</sub>O<sub>4</sub> HNPs, the ratio of nickel to cobalt is the same as that of Spinel/

**Figure 5.** (a) XRD patterns of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs, NiCo $_2$ O $_4$  HPs, Ni $_{0.83}$ Co $_{2.17}$ O $_4$  HNPs and Sol-Gel NPs (b) SEM, (c, d) TEM and (e) HRTEM images of the Spinel/Perovskite HNPs. Insets in (d) is the selected area electron diffraction pattern of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs.

Perovskite HNPs) were synthesized, and the traditional sol-gel method was also used to synthesize composite nanoparticles (labeled as Sol-Gel NPs, the proportion of metal ions is consistent with that of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs) for electrocatalytic performance comparison. The pyrolysis conditions of the above materials are the same as those of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs. From Figure S19, it can be seen that Sol-Gel NPs appear as irregular nanoparticles.

Then the electrocatalytic properties of the synthetic materials were tested. It is noteworthy that Spinel/Perovskite HNPs showed significantly better OER activity than the control materials. It has a low overvoltage of 340 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH solution, a low Tafel slope (78.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), a small charge transfer resistance, a large ECSA (16.5 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), and robust long-term stability (Figure 6a-e). Furthermore, the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) activities of the materials were also tested to explore the potential versatility of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs, and the catalyst's bifunctionality is of great significance for practical applications.[36] As expected, Spinel/Perovskite HNPs have the greatest limiting current density among all materials which may result from structural and compositional advantages. It should be noted that the ORR performance of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs still needs improvement.

**Figure 6.** (a) OER polarization curves, (b) Tafel slopes, (c) Nyquist plots and (d) Current density plots vs the scan rates of the as-prepared catalysts. (e) Chronopotentiometry curve of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs under a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. (f) Polarization curves of the as-synthesized catalysts for ORR. Insets in (c) is an enlarged view of Nyquist plots of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs.

### Conclusion

Ce-doped hollow mesoporous spinel nanoprisms electrocatalyst with excellent performance toward OER was successfully prepared using a MOF-engaged strategy, which provides a new way for the rational design and preparation of electrocatalyst to realize the conversion of electrical energy to chemical energy. Concretely, hollow nanoprisms exhibit a large specific surface area, and the electronic structure and defect state of the catalyst are changed due to the synergistic effect of additional Ce with cobalt and nickel, which significantly improves the catalytic performance. Moreover, XPS spectroscopy and in situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy revealed the true transition of the active catalytic species during the oxidation process. At the same time, the strategy of constructing hollow and heterogeneous structures through MOF may also be applied to other fields. Furthermore, the synthesis of Spinel/Perovskite HNPs shows that a series of transition metal/rare earth oxides can be obtained by controlling the synthesis conditions and applied to other fields. The related research of rare earth doping to realize the construction of heterogeneous interface is in progress.

### **Experimental Section**

#### Chemicals

Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP,  $M_w$ =58000), cobalt acetate tetrahydrate ( $Co(OAc)_2 \cdot 4H_2O$ , 99.5%), nickel acetate tetrahydrate ( $Ni(OAc)_2 \cdot 4H_2O$ , 98%), 2,5-dihydroxyterephthalic acid ( $H_4DOBDC$ , 98%), cerium nitrate hexahydrate, ( $Ce(NO_3)_3 \cdot 6H_2O$ , 99.5%), citric acid ( $C_6H_8O_7 \cdot H_2O$ , 99.5%), dimethyl formamide (DMF), ethylene glycol and anhydrous ethanol were all purchased from commercial sources and used as received without further purification.

# Synthesis of nickel/cobalt acetate hydroxides solid nanoprisms (Ni/Co SNPs)

Taking the synthesis of  $NiCo_2$  SNPs as an example. Typically, 3.5 g PVP, 0.43 g  $Ni(OAc)_2 \cdot 4H_2O$  and 0.86 g  $Co(OAc)_2 \cdot 4H_2O$  were dissolved into 200 mL of anhydrous ethanol by ultrasound to form a clear pink solution at room temperature. The solution was then heated to 85 °C under stirring and refluxing conditions for 12 h. Then the precipitate was separated by centrifugation, washed with ethanol for several times and dried at 80 °C in air. The synthesis conditions of other Ni/Co SNPs were the same as above with different feed ratio exceptionally.

# Synthesis of nickel/cobalt MOF-74 hollow nanoprisms (Ni/Co-MOF-74 HNPs)

20 mg NiCo $_2$  SNPs and 10 mg H $_4$ DOBDC were added into 50 mL of DMF and dispersed evenly under ultrasound. Then the mixture was transferred to an 100 mL Teflon-lined stainless steel autoclave and maintained at 120 °C in an oven for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature, the yellowish precipitation NiCo $_2$ -MOF-74 HNPs was collected by centrifugation, washed with DMF and ethanol several times and dried at 60 °C in a vacuum overnight.

# Synthesis of Ce-doped hollow mesoporous nickel/cobalt spinel nanoprisms (NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> HNPs)

30 mg of the as-prepared  $NiCo_2$ -MOF-74 HNPs was dispersed in 10 mL aqueous solution of 5 mg  $Ce(NO_3)_3 \cdot 6H_2O$  and stirred for 12 h at room temperature. The resulting production, labeled  $NiCo_2$ -MOF-74-Ce HNPs, was collected by centrifugation and washed with ethanol before drying. The above  $NiCo_2$ -MOF-74-Ce HNPs were placed in a crucible, and then transferred to a muffle furnace and heated to  $300\,^{\circ}$ C. After reacting for 2 h at  $300\,^{\circ}$ C in the air, the system was cooled to room temperature naturally.

# Synthesis of Spinel/Perovskite hollow nanoprisms (Spinel/Perovskite HNPs)

30 mg of the as-prepared  $NiCo_2$ -MOF-74 HNPs was dispersed in 10 mL aqueous solution of 30 mg  $La(NO_3)_3 \cdot 6H_2O$  and stirred for 12 h at room temperature. The resulting production, labeled  $NiCo_2$ -MOF-74-La HNPs, was collected by centrifugation and washed with ethanol before drying. The above  $NiCo_2$ -MOF-74-La HNPs were placed in a crucible, and then transferred to a muffle furnace. Held at  $300\,^{\circ}C$  for 1 hour before heating to  $600\,^{\circ}C$ . After calcining in  $600\,^{\circ}C$  for 4 hours, the system was cooled to room temperature naturally.

#### Instruments

The morphology, composition and structure of the obtained catalyst were characterized by various techniques, including inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra, Barrett-Emmett-Teller (BET), scanning electron microscope (SEM), transmission electron microscope (TEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra and Raman spectra. The details of the above characterizations are described in the supporting information.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

Electrochemical measurements of the OER performance were conducted in 1 M KOH electrolyte using an electrochemical work station (CHI660E, Shanghai) with a standard three-electrode system, in which a platinum pole and saturated Hg/HgO were used as counter and reference electrodes, respectively, and a polished glassy carbon (GC) coated with the electrocatalysts was used as working electrode. In this work, all experiments were measured at room temperature (25 °C), and unless otherwise specified, all potentials were converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), Tafel plots, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) were successively tested and calculated. In addition, all polarization curves obtained in this work were presented after iR compensation correction. The preparation method of the working electrode and the test parameters are recorded in the support information. The electrochemical measurements of ORR were carried out on a rotating disk electrode (RDE) in an oxygensaturated 0.1 M KOH solution at a scanning rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> under disk rotating rates of 1600 rpm.

### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Projects 22221001 and 22131007) and 111 Project (B20027).

## **Conflict of Interests**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

**Keywords:** metal-organic frameworks  $\cdot$  spinel oxide  $\cdot$  CeO<sub>2</sub>  $\cdot$  hollow electrocatalyst  $\cdot$  oxygen evolution reaction

- [1] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, Science 2017, 355, eaad4998; b) E. B. Mingquan Yu, H. Tüysüz, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202103824.
- [2] J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49, 2196–2214.
- [3] a) Y. Li, Y. Sun, Y. Qin, W. Zhang, L. Wang, M. Luo, H. Yang, S. Guo, Adv. Energy Mater. 2020, 10, 1903120; b) Q. Shi, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2019, 48, 3181–3192.
- [4] Z. P. Wu, X. F. Lu, S. Q. Zang, X. W. Lou, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, 30, 1910274.
- [5] F. Dionigi, Z. Zeng, I. Sinev, T. Merzdorf, S. Deshpande, M. B. Lopez, S. Kunze, I. Zegkinoglou, H. Sarodnik, D. Fan, A. Bergmann, J. Drnec, J. F. Araujo, M. Gliech, D. Teschner, J. Zhu, W. X. Li, J. Greeley, B. R. Cuenya, P. Strasser, *Nat. Commun.* 2020, 11, 2522.
- [6] H. Liu, J. Lei, S. Yang, F. Qin, L. Cui, Y. Kong, X. Zheng, T. Duan, W. Zhu, R. He, Appl. Catal. B 2021, 286, 119894.
- [7] L. Fan, B. Zhang, Z. Qiu, N. Dharanipragada, B. J. J. Timmer, F. Zhang, X. Sheng, T. Liu, Q. Meng, A. K. Inge, T. Edvinsson, L. Sun, *ChemSusChem* 2020, 13, 5901–5909.
- [8] Q. Chen, Q. Zhang, H. Liu, J. Liang, W. Peng, Y. Li, F. Zhang, X. Fan, Small 2021, 17, e2007858.
- [9] a) W. Zhou, X.-J. Wu, X. Cao, X. Huang, C. Tan, J. Tian, H. Liu, J. Wang, H. Zhang, Energy Environ. Sci. 2013, 6, 2921; b) C. Gu, S. Hu, X. Zheng, M. R. Gao, Y. R. Zheng, L. Shi, Q. Gao, X. Zheng, W. Chu, H. B. Yao, J. Zhu, S. H. Yu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 4020–4024; Angew. Chem. 2018, 130, 4084–4088; c) Q. Gao, C. Q. Huang, Y. M. Ju, M. R. Gao, J. W. Liu, D. An, C. H. Cui, Y. R. Zheng, W. X. Li, S. H. Yu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 7769–7773; Angew. Chem. 2017, 129, 7877–7881.
- [10] K. Zhang, R. Zou, Small 2021, 17, e2100129.
- [11] a) Y. Sun, H. Liao, J. Wang, B. Chen, S. Sun, S. J. H. Ong, S. Xi, C. Diao, Y. Du, J.-O. Wang, M. B. H. Breese, S. Li, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, Nat. Catal. 2020, 3, 554–563; b) Q. Zhao, Z. Yan, C. Chen, J. Chen, Chem. Rev. 2017, 117, 10121–10211.
- [12] H. Yang, Y. Liu, S. Luo, Z. Zhao, X. Wang, Y. Luo, Z. Wang, J. Jin, J. Ma, ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 5557–5567.
- [13] a) S. Liu, H. Cheng, K. Xu, H. Ding, J. Zhou, B. Liu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, ACS Energy Lett. 2018, 4, 423–429; b) L. Huang, D. Chen, G. Luo, Y. R. Lu,

- C. Chen, Y. Zou, C. L. Dong, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, e1901439.
- [14] a) J. Du, T. Zhang, J. Xing, C. Xu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5, 9210–9216;
   b) S. Peng, F. Gong, L. Li, D. Yu, D. Ji, T. Zhang, Z. Hu, Z. Zhang, S. Chou, Y. Du, S. Ramakrishna, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 13644–13653.
- [15] K. Huang, Y. Sun, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, W. Zhang, S. Feng, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, e1801430.
- [16] X. Wang, J. Feng, Y. Bai, Q. Zhang, Y. Yin, Chem. Rev. 2016, 116, 10983– 11060.
- [17] a) J. S. Kim, B. Kim, H. Kim, K. Kang, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1702774;
  b) J. Li, D. Chu, H. Dong, D. R. Baker, R. Jiang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 50–54;
  c) Y. Huang, S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z.-P. Wu, D. Luan, X. W. Lou, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 11841–11846;
  Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 11841–11846;
  Angew. Chem. 2021, 133, 11947–11952.
- [18] a) W. Yang, X. Wang, S. Song, H. Zhang, Chem 2019, 5, 1743–1774; b) X. Wu, T. Zhang, J. Wei, P. Feng, X. Yan, Y. Tang, Nano Res. 2020, 13, 2130–2135.
- [19] X. Zhang, S. Yang, W. Lu, Y. Tian, Z. Liu, Y. Zhao, A. Liu, Small 2022, 18, e2200656.
- [20] P. Thangavel, M. Ha, S. Kumaraguru, A. Meena, A. N. Singh, A. M. Harzandi, K. S. Kim, Energy Environ. Sci. 2020, 13, 3447–3458.
- [21] a) H. F. Wang, L. Chen, H. Pang, S. Kaskel, Q. Xu, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2020, 49, 1414–1448; b) B. Zhang, Y. Zheng, T. Ma, C. Yang, Y. Peng, Z. Zhou, M. Zhou, S. Li, Y. Wang, C. Cheng, Adv. Mater. 2021, 33, e2006042.
- [22] a) L. Yu, J. F. Yang, X. W. Lou, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 13422–13426; Angew. Chem. 2016, 128, 13620–13624; b) L. Yu, J. F. Yang, B. Y. Guan, Y. Lu, X. W. D. Lou, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 172–176; Angew. Chem. 2018, 130, 178–182.
- [23] X. Deng, L. Yang, H. Huang, Y. Yang, S. Feng, M. Zeng, Q. Li, D. Xu, Small 2019, 15, 1902287.
- [24] S. Zhao, C. Tan, C.-T. He, P. An, F. Xie, S. Jiang, Y. Zhu, K.-H. Wu, B. Zhang, H. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Chen, S. Liu, J. Dong, Z. Tang, *Nat. Energy* 2020, 5, 881–890.
- [25] S. Zhu, C. Chen, P. He, S. Tan, F. Xiong, Z. Liu, Z. Peng, Q. An, L. Mai, Nano Res. 2019, 12, 1371–1374.
- [26] T. Chen, F. Wang, S. Cao, Y. Bai, S. Zheng, W. Li, S. Zhang, S. X. Hu, H. Pang, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, e2201779.
- [27] S. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Zhu, Y. Yang, W. Hu, H. Zhao, R. Qu, C. Zheng, X. Gao, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2019, 479, 1132–1140.
- [28] Y. Long, S. Song, J. Li, L. Wu, Q. Wang, Y. Liu, R. Jin, H. Zhang, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 8506–8512.
- [29] H. Qiu, F. Pu, Z. Liu, Q. Deng, P. Sun, J. Ren, X. Qu, Small 2019, 15, e1902522.
- [30] W. Gao, Z. Xia, F. Cao, J. C. Ho, Z. Jiang, Y. Qu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1706056.
- [31] X. Wu, Y. Yang, T. Zhang, B. Wang, H. Xu, X. Yan, Y. Tang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 39841–39847.
- [32] X. Wu, J. Wei, T. Zhang, Y. Yang, Q. Liu, X. Yan, Y. Tang, Inorg. Chem. Front. 2021, 8, 4440–4447.
- [33] J. Yu, Z. Wang, J. Wang, W. Zhong, M. Ju, R. Cai, C. Qiu, X. Long, S. Yang, ChemSusChem 2020, 13, 5273–5279.
- [34] B. Qiu, C. Wang, N. Zhang, L. Cai, Y. Xiong, Y. Chai, ACS Catal. 2019, 9, 6484–6490.
- [35] a) Y. Li, X. Lin, J. Du, *Inorg. Chem.* 2021, 60, 19373–19380; b) X. Zhao, Y. Liu, J. Wang, L. Qian, L. Yao, Z. Chen, Q. Cai, X. Xing, Z. Wu, *Inorg. Chem.* 2019, 58, 7054–7061.
- [36] T. Yoon, K. S. Kim, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2016, 26, 7386–7393.

Manuscript received: April 13, 2023 Revised manuscript received: April 24, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: April 28, 2023 Version of record online: May 5, 2023