---
source: Liu 等 - 2018 - Two‐Step Synthesis of Cobalt Iron Alloy Nanoparticles Embedded in Nitrogen‐Doped Carbon NanosheetsC.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 12.950s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:18:49.270530Z
---

## **Accepted Article**

**Title:** A lyophilized and thermal two step synthesis of CoFe alloy nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets/carbon nanotubes for highly-efficient oxygen evolution reaction

**Authors:** Yang Liu, Feng Li, Haidong Yang, Jing Li, Ping Ma, Yan Zhu, and Jiantai Ma

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.201800961

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201800961

WILEY-VCH

### **FULL PAPER**

# A lyophilized and thermal two step synthesis of CoFe alloy nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets/carbon nanotubes for highly-efficient oxygen evolution reaction

Yang Liu, Feng Li, Haidong Yang, Jing Li, Ping Ma, Yan Zhu and Jiantai Ma\*

Abstract: There is a vital need to explore highly-efficient and stable nonprecious-metal catalysts for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) to reduce the overpotential and further improve the energy conversion efficiency. Herein, we report a unique and cost-effective lyophilized and thermal two step procedure to synthesize high-performance CoFe alloy nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets interspersed with carbon nanotubes (CoFe-N-CN/CNTs) hybrid. The lyophilization step during catalysts preparation is beneficial to uniform the dispersion of carbon-like precursors and avoid the agglomeration of metal particles. Meanwhile, the inserted CNTs and doped N in this hybrid provide better electrical conductivity, more chemically active sites, improved mass transport capability and effective gas adsorption/release channels. And all these lead to a high specific surface area of 240.67 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, favorable stability and remarkable OER activities with an overpotential of only 285 mV at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a Tafel slope of 51.09 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte, which is even superior to commercial IrO2 catalysts. The CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid thus exhibits great potential as a highly efficient and earth-abundant anode OER electrocatalyst.

#### Introduction

Hydrogen, as a potential and clean secondary energy sources of high quality, can be acquired by electrochemical water splitting which is made up of the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[1] The OER as a complex four-electron transfer process tends to consume larger thermodynamic potential (1.23 V vs. RHE) than the HER for its sluggish kinetics at the anode. [2] Thus, water splitting is normally restricted by the OER process. Up to now, noble mental oxides RuO<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub> are deemed to the optimal catalysts for the OER.<sup>[3]</sup> Whereas, their extensive commercialization is hindered by the high cost, rare reserves and poor stability.

L.Y,F.L,H.Y,J,L,P.M,Y.Z, and Prof J. M

State Key Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry (SKLAOC), College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Lanzhou University.

Lanzhou, Gansu, 730000, P. R. China

E-mail: majiantai@lzu.edu.e

Fax: +86-931-8912582; Tel: +86-931-8912577

L.Y,F.L,H.Y,J,L,P.M,Y.Z, and Prof J. M Gansu Provincial Engineering Laboratory for Chemical Catalysis, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Lanzhou

Lanzhou, Gansu, 730000, P. R. China

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.((Please delete this text if not appropriate))

To date, noble-metal-free materials, such as metallic nanoparticles on N-doped porous carbon (M-N-C) composites, metal oxides, metallic chalcogenides, metal phosphides and layered double hydroxides (LDHs) have been researched for ideal OER electrocatalysts.[4] Among these materials, M-N-C composites have aroused general concern over the past few years for the distinct characteristic of the combination of metal/alloy and aerogels<sup>[5]</sup>: (i) the mesoporous structure of Ndoped porous carbon (NC) materials offers large surface area and high porosity to intensify mass transfer; [6] (ii) the N dopant provides more active sites and anchor sites to accelerate catalytic reactions and deposit metal/alloy nanoparticles easily; [7] (iii) the synergistic effect between metallic nanoparticles and N dopant brings about boosted electrocatalytic activity;[8] (iv) the metallic or the carbonaceous structure leads to superior electron mobility and electrical conductivity for the efficient electrocatalytic activity; [9] (v) the embedded metallic nanoparticles could donate electrons to the neighboring carbon layers, letting the carbon surface catalytically more active;[10] (vi) encapsulating porous carbon layers can prevent the bare metal/alloy aggregating and protect it for superior stability in alkaline medium.[11]

Worth mentioning at this time is among the carbon type materials, the 3D carbon hybrids formed by incorporating carbon nanotubes (CNTs) into 2D carbon nanosheets (CN) have been beginning to get into our sights because they cannot only make the utmost of the both nanocarbon materials, but also raise a novel and attractive multifunctional nanostructured material.[12] On the one hand the inserted CNTs can serve as a complementary site for the electrochemical reaction to promote electron transfer, and on the other hand they can function as spacers to increase the basal spacing between graphite sheets for the effective transport of reactants.[13] As a consequence, the fabrication of a metallic nanoparticles on N-doped porous carbon nanosheets interspersed with carbon nanotubes (M-N-CN/CNTs) hybrid for the OER is highly anticipated and urgently needed.

Generally speaking, the M-N-C composites prepared by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process,[14] template methods[15] or a twostep thermal procedure. The two step thermal procedure includes electroplating,[16] ball milling,[17] hydrothermal[11, evaporating[19] precursors first, and then calcining. However, these procedures need prolonged time, complicated process, special instruments, low yields, high costs and may lead to aggregation, thus limiting their practical applications.[20] So a facile and cost-effective template-free method that can reach a satisfied metallic nanoparticles dispersion is the most pressing needs. Lyophilization is a drying technique which can immobilize the structural configuration of the material in its dispersion state through using the principle of sublimation dehydration to remove the solvents to gain a large void space and enhance surface area in final architecture.[21] By now, lyophilization as a novel method

to obtain high distribution and subsize catalysts which can minimize irreversible aggregation formed by van der Waals interaction and re-stacking inter the carbon sheets support is used in preparing carbonilike materials.[7a, 22]

Above all, the CoFe nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets interspersed with carbon nanotubes (CoFe-N-CN/CNTs) hybrid as a prospective electrocatalyst for the OER was synthesized by a facile and cost-saving two step thermal procedure. The fabrication procedure for the CoFe-N-CN/CNTs is demonstrated in Scheme 1. The first step is the lyophilization of the mixture solution of Co(NO3)2·6H2O, Fe(NO3)3·9H2O, urea, glucose and CNTs with the uniform dispersion. The second step is pyrolyzation the dried precursors. In this system, CoFe alloy is acquired by reducing Co2+ and Fe3+ at a high temperature while catalyzing the formation of N-doped carbon nanostructures.[13, 23] Urea which contains high N-content (46%) is used as nitrogen source. Glucose is selected as carbon source to form N-doped carbon nanosheets by copyrolyzation with urea, and CNTs are inserted during the formation procedure of N-doped carbon nanosheets mentioned above. The following electrochemical measurements illustrate that the as-prepared CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid exhibits long-term durability and splendid OER activity in alkaline electrolyte, exceeding commercial IrO<sup>2</sup> catalysts. The CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid reaches only 285 mV overpotential at 10 mA cm−2 and owns small Tafel slop of 51.09 mV dec-1 which is much better than Co-N-CN/CNTs, Fe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CN, CoFe-N-CNTs and CoFe-CN/CNTs hybrids. The results further verify that the excellent OER activity of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs may be ascribe to the inserted-CNTs, N dopant (graphitic N and pyridinic N), metal-nitrogen coordination (M-Nx, M=Co, Fe) sites and the efficient interaction within the CoFe alloy nanoparticles.

### **Results and Discussion**

**Scheme 1** The process flow chart of the synthetic procedure of the CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid.

The morphologies of N-doped carbon nanosheets interspersed with carbon nanotubes (N-CN/CNTs) are illustrated in Fig. 1a. Obviously, the N-CN/CNTs composites appear as nanotubes interspersing among gauzy and curly two-dimensional (2D) nanosheets. The TEM micrographs of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs are exhibited in Fig. 1b-c, and we can see that CoFe alloy nanoparticles (NPs) are dispersed homogeneously across the 3.39-45.30 nm range with an average particle size of 13.77 nm on the N-CN/CNTs (Fig. S1b). The EDX pattern is in the Fig. S1a, and the main elements revealed in the picture accord with our target catalysts except Cu element which is brought by copper grid. The HRTEM images of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid in Fig. 1de confirm that CoFe NPs with superior crystallinity possess a clear 2.02 Å lattice fringe which is ascribed to the (110) crystal plane of CoFe alloy. To verify the uniform distribution of each element, the HAADF–STEM image is shown in Fig. 1f. The corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray mapping images of C, N, Co-K, Co-L, Fe-K, Fe-L further manifest the successful doping of N and the alloy structure of CoFe.

**Fig. 1** TEM images of (a) N-CN/CNTs and (b, c) CoFe-N-CN/CNTs. (d ,e) HRTEM images of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs. (f) HAADF-STEM image of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs and corresponding HAADFSTEM-EDX elemental mapping images of C, N, Co-K, Co-L, Fe-K, Fe-L.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns are adopted to further demonstrate the crystal structure of the as-synthesized materials (Fig. 2a). The similar diffraction peaks of CNTs and N-CN/CNTs hybrid at 26.0° and 42.8° corresponding (002) and (100) planes of graphite (JCPDS Card No. 65-6212) indicate that the prepared N-CN/CNTs forms a well graphite structure. The lower peak of N-CN/CNTs hybrid derives from the successful doping of N heteroatom. Besides, the XRD patterns of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs at 2*θ* = 44.7°, 65.2°, and 82.4° are well assigned to (110), (200) and (211) planes of Co3Fe<sup>7</sup> (JCPDS Card No. 48-1817) except the peak at 26.0° which is in keeping with the (002) plane of graphite structure to illustrate the existence of N-CN/CNTs. Since then, the chemical compositions of the as-prepared catalysts are clearly identified with a highly crystalline face-centered cubic phase. Raman spectroscopy is widely used to describe the structural

defects and graphitization of carbonaceous materials.[24] As is shown in Fig. 2b, all the samples have two peaks located at around 1350 cm-1 and 1582 cm-1 which are line with D-band and G-band, respectively.[25] The G-band at 1582 cm-1 stands for the E2g phonon of graphitic sp2 C atoms, and the D-band at 1350 cm-

1 represents the disordered defects of carbon skeleton aroused by A<sup>1</sup> <sup>g</sup> vibration of edge and heteroatoms.[19b, 26] The intensity ratio of the D-band to G-band (ID/IG) is deemed to a criterion to evaluate the defects and disordered structure of carbonaceous materials. The ID/I<sup>G</sup> ratio of N-CN/CNTs hybrid (1.03) is much higher than CNTs (0.84). No doubt it manifests that the N heteroatomic doping and the formation of carbon nanosheets by the copyrolysis of glucose and urea bring about tremendous defects and disordered carbonaceous structure. The maximum ID/I<sup>G</sup> ratio of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs (1.19) suggests that the infusion of CoFe alloy increases the defects and disordered degree of graphite structure. The enlarged defects and disordered graphitization is in favor of promoting electrocatalytic performance of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs on account of boosted p-bonding and electron donor-acceptor features.[27]

N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption isotherms of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites are displayed in Fig. 2c, and we can distinctly observe that the adsorption-desorption plot with a pronounced H3 type hysteresis loop at high relative pressures (P/P0) from 0.4 to 1.0 is assigned to the type-IV isotherms by IUPAC classification, which indicates the existence of plentiful mesoporous within samples.[28] In addition, the pore structure of as-synthesized samples is analyzed by BJH (Barrett–Joyner–Halenda) method. As is exhibited in Fig. 2d, the resultant samples possess a broad pore width range of 1.7 nm–300 nm with the mean pore size of 7.91 nm. Moreover, the CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid has a high BET surface area of 240.67 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 and cumulative pore volumes of 0.48 cm<sup>3</sup> g -1 . The large surface area derived from macro- /mesoporous structures of the catalysts is beneficial to make hydroxide ions reactants and oxygen products transport rapidly to provide high electrochemical activity.

**Fig. 2** (a) XRD patterns and (b) Raman spectra of CNTs, N-CN/CNTs, and CoFe-N-CN/CNTs; (c) N<sup>2</sup> adsorption–desorption plots and (d) pore size distribution of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements are used to describe the electronic states and chemical components of CoFe-N-PCN/CNTs composites. The materials are mostly composed of Co, Fe, O, C and N elements exhibited in full-scan XPS spectra (inset of Fig. 3a). The existence of O element is due to residual oxygen.[20] The fine-resolution XPS of C 1s (Fig. 3a) can be deconvoluted into five peaks in accord with various carbon moieties, the peaks located at 284.6 eV, 285.2 eV, 286.5 eV, 287.3 eV and 289.0 eV correspond to graphite-like carbon (C–C) and oxygen or nitrogen related carbon (C–N, C–O, C=O and O=C–O), respectively.[29] The doping N in carbon presents five formations (Fig. 3b), namely, pyridinic N (398.4 eV), pyrrolic N (400.7 eV), graphitic N (401.5 eV) and oxidized N (403.3 eV), besides, the peak at 399.3 eV is attribute to the N combined with metal atoms (N–M).[18, 30] Obviously, there are maximum pyridinic–N, pyrrolic–N, N–M and graphitic–N but minimal oxidized N species in CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites, which is the proof of the CoFe alloy's presence. Studies have shown that graphitic N and pyridinic N among the doping N atoms are regarded as the most effective active sites for OER.[31] Whereas, a great deal of graphitic N and pyridinic N derived from the reaction between the amidogen of urea and the hemiacetal hydroxyl groups of glucose in this work make for promoting the OER activity of catalysts. For the Co element, the fine-resolution XPS spectra in Fig. 3c can be divided into five peaks at 778.6 eV, 780.2 eV, 781.7 eV, 785.7 eV and 796.8 eV which are assigned to the 2p3/2 peaks of Co (0) and Co (II), Co (III), shake-up satellite peak and 2p1/2 peak of Co (II), respectively.[10a, 30, 32] Similarly, the fine-resolution XPS of Fe 2p (Fig. 3d) can be fitted into four peaks corresponding with Fe (0) and Fe (III). The 2p3/2 peaks of Fe (0) and Fe (III) are located at 707.8 eV and 710.8 eV. The 2p1/2 peaks of Fe (0) and Fe (III) are located at 719.9 eV and 724.0 eV.[18, 33] The result states that both Co and Fe elements in resultant samples show metallic state derived from CoFe alloy and oxidized states derived from the oxidation of metal surface and the coordination of metal and N. [34] Thus, the N-M peaks and oxidized states of the meterial expound the existence of transition metalnitrogen coordination (M-Nx, M=Co, Fe) species. As is reported, the M-N<sup>x</sup> species have possibility as active sites to improve the OER activity.[31, 35]

**Fig. 3** The inset of image (a) XPS full-spectrum of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites. Deconvoluted fine-resolution spectrums of (a)C 1s, (b) N 1s, and (c) Co 2p and (d) Fe 2p spectrum of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites.

To evaluate the OER activity of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs and other referential samples (N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CNTs, CoFe-N-CN), the polarization curves are proceeded in Fig 4a. It is well known that the overpotential at the current density of 10 mA cm−2 is a criterion for different OER electrocatalysts. As is displayed in Fig. 4b, the overpotentials of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CNTs, CoFe-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CN and N-CN/CNTs are estimated to be 285 mV, 334 mV, 379 mV, 396 mV and 446 mV at 10 mA cm−2 , respectively. The N-CN/CNTs hybrid with a slight current density exhibits a relatively sluggish OER activity compared to the other samples decorated with CoFe alloy. The overpotential of CoFe-CN/CNTs is much higher than CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, manifesting that the doping-N from urea pyrolysis can significantly boost the OER activity of electrocatalysts on account of the synergistic effect between CoFe alloy and N dopant and the large quantities of active sites derived from graphitic N and pyridinic N. Besides, the carbon nanosheets of CoFe-CN/CNTs cannot generate very well without urea. This can be further testified by the TEM image of CoFe-CN/CNTs which displays as amount of carbon fragments interspersing with CNTs and CoFe alloy nanoparticles accompanied by slight agglomeration (Fig. S2a). The morphologies of CoFe-N-CNTs and CoFe-N-CN are also provided in Fig. S2b-c. These TEM images clarify that the carbon nanosheets can be formed without CNTs but cannot be without urea. CNTs, as a superior electro-conductive material usually serves as supporter to promote electrocatalytic activity. The OER activity of catalysts with simple N-CN is much inferior to the one with simple N-CNTs. But after the combination of N-CNTs and N-CN, the OER activity of the target catalysts gains noticeable increase. Meanwhile, the OER kinetics is further assessed by the Tafel plots in Fig. 3c. The Tafel slops are acquired by the Tafel equation [η= a + b log(j), where η , b, and j represent the over-potential, Tafel slope and current density, respectively]. The smaller the Tafel slop is, the more faster enhancement in the OER rate is.[36] The Tafel slope of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs is 51.09 mV dec-1 which is the lowest among that of CoFe-N-CNTs (66.52 mV dec-1 ), CoFe-CN/CNTs (99.12 mV dec-1 ), CoFe-N-CN (134.08 mV dec-1 ) and N-CN/CNTs (191.37 mV dec-1 ), demonstrating that the target catalysts own favorable OER kinetics.

The synergistic effect between CoFe alloy and N dopant may be attributed to the existence of M-N<sup>x</sup> sites. To further confirm the funtion of M-N<sup>x</sup> sites, the OER activity of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs is investagated in 1.0 M KOH solution with and without 10 mM KSCN. SCN<sup>−</sup> ,as a probe of poisoning experiment, can poison M-N<sup>x</sup> sites by coordinating strongly to metal ions of metal-centred catalytic sites, thus it can be used as a proof to verify the role of M-N<sup>x</sup> sites.[10a, 37] As exhibited in Fig. S3, the OER performance of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs shows a negative shift after introducing SCN<sup>−</sup> ions. The inhibited activity indicates that the active sites of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs contain M-N<sup>x</sup> species which play significant roles in enhancing the OER activity.

Further investigating the preponderance of lyophilization, the composite which is prepared traditionally by evaporating precursors to dryness and then calcining is recorded as CoFe-N-CN/CNTsEVA. The LSV curve of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs shows smaller overpotential and lower Tafel slop than CoFe-N-CN/CNTsEVA

indicating that the lyophilizing step in the preparation procedure of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid is superior to the evaporating step. Besides, we contrast the electrochemical performance of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs with Co-N-CN/CNTs and Fe-N-CN/CNTs in the same condition (Fig. 4d-f). The samples with bare Co and Fe exhibit high onset potential at 1.54 V and 1.56 V, while CoFe-N-CN/CNTs responds an earlier onset potential at 1.47 V. The onset potential is acquired by Butler plots in Fig.S4. [38] The overpotentials at 10 mA cm−2 were summed up in Fig. 4e. The CoFe-N-CN/CNTs also displays lower Tafel slop (51.09 mV dec-1 ) than Co-N-CN/CNTs (111.99 mV dec-1 ) and Fe-N-CN/CNTs (150.08 mV dec-1 ), expressing that the eminent OER activity is rooted from the efficient interaction within the CoFe alloy nanoparticles.[34] Above all, the CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid is the relatively optimal OER electrocatalyst, which also makes a comparison with commercial IrO<sup>2</sup> and RuO<sup>2</sup> in Fig. S5. IrO<sup>2</sup> yields inferior electrochemical performance with an onset potential of 1.49 V, an overpotential of 310 mV at 10 mA cm-2 and a Tafel slop of 82.40 mV dec-1 . RuO<sup>2</sup> is initially superior to CoFe-N-CN/CNTs with a lower overpotential of 222 mV at 10 mA cm-2 , but gets higher overpotential after about 30 mA cm-2 . Besides, it possesses a high Tafel slop of 118.27 mV dec-1 . As well, a table with the comparison of previously reported CoFe-based OER catalysts is exhibited in Supporting information (Table S3), further clarifies the prominent electrocatalytic performance of the CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites.

**Fig. 4** (a) The Polarization curves, (b) over-potentials at 10 mA cm-2 and (c) corresponding Tafel slops of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CNTs, CoFe-N-CN and N-CN/CNTs; (d) LSV curves, (e) over-potentials at 10 mA cm-2 and (f) corresponding Tafel slops of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CN/CNTsEVA, Co-N-CN/CNTs, Fe-N-CN/CNTs and IrO<sup>2</sup> in O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH solution.

To acquire the optimum catalyst, a sequence of conditions have been screened, such as pyrolysis temperatures and metal molar ratio of Co to Fe. It can be apparently observed in Fig .5a-b that the OER activity of these samples calcinating by different temperatures exhibits a volcanic type trend from 600 °C to 1000 °C. With the rise of temperature, the OER activity increases in the beginning and achieves maximum at 800 °C and then gets a decline at 900 °C and 1000 °C. When the pyrolysis temperature is 600 °C or 700 °C, the g-C3N<sup>4</sup> from urea decomposes inadequately, so the N dopant has a low content, this leads to a weak overpotential and Tafel slop. However, when the pyrolysis temperature is too high, the OER activity is also not very ideal related to the decline of the doping-N content.[39] The N content of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs600, CoFe-N-CN/CNTs700, CoFe-N-CN/CNTs800, CoFe-N-CN/CNTs<sup>900</sup> and CoFe-N-CN/CNTs<sup>1000</sup> is analyzed by the elemental analyzer corresponding to 0.29%, 1.09%, 5.00%, 2.55% and 0.37% (Table S1), this clearly conforms to the volcanic type trend of the OER activity of the above catalysts. It follows that the N dopant influenced by the pyrolysis temperature can affect the electrochemical activity of materials. In addition, the samples with various molar ratios of Co to Fe are researched so as to gain the optimum content for OER electrocatalysis. The final molar ratios of Co to Fe were analyzed by ICP-OES measurements in Table S2. In addition, the Co1Fe2-N-CN/CNTs is more superior among Co1Fe1-N-CN/CNTs, Co2Fe1-N-CN/CNTs, Co1Fe4-N-CN/CNTs and Co4Fe1-N-CN/CNTs for Linear Sweep Voltammetry detection of OER since smaller overpotential and lower Tafel slop (Fig. S6).

**Fig. 5** (a) The Polarization curves of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs calcinating at different temperatures; (b) Tafel plots of the corresponding catalysts.

The N-C materials not only provide high conductivity for electrocatalysts, but also afford large quantities of electrochemically active surface area (Aechem). The Aechem as a vital factor to measure the electrocatalytic activity of OER can be estimated by the double layer capacitances (Cdl) due to the positive proportional relationship between Aechem and Cdl. [40] While the Cdl is measured through a simple cyclic voltammetry (CV) method at different scan rates (2–100 mV s-1 ) within the range of 1.09–1.14 V *vs*. RHE. The Cdl of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CNTs and N-CN/CNTs is displayed in Fig. 6d corresponding to 30.56 mF cm-2 , 12.54 mF cm-2 and 4.27 mF cm-2 , respectively. This result indicates that CoFe-N-CN/CNTs has larger Aechem offering more active sites, thus may be connected with the interplay among N dopants, CoFe alloy and carbon materials, which is extremely conducive to its marvelous electrocatalytic activity.

**Fig. 6** CV curves of the (a) CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, (b) CoFe-N-CNTs and (c) N-CN/CNTs at different scan rates from 2 to100 mV s-1 ; (d) Cdl of corresponding catalysts.

The electrode kinetics is also researched by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) under the catalytic OER operating conditions. The Nyquist plots of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CNTs and CoFe-N-CN at an operating potential of 0.53 V *vs*. Ag/AgCl are shown in Fig. 7a. The semicircle at high frequency corresponding charge-transfer resistance (Rct) correlates electrochemical kinetics at the interface between catalysts and electrolyte, and the lower value is in accord with faster electron transfer rate.[41] The semicircular diameter of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs is much smaller than CoFe-N-CNTs and CoFe-N-CN, indicating that with the introduction of CNTs, affording a faster electron transfer rate which is in favor of the OER proceeding.

For a promising electrochemical catalyst, tolerance and durability are of crucial importance. In this work, the stability of our target catalyst is gauged by the chronoamperometric method in O2 saturated 1.0 M KOH. The chronopotentiometry (CP) curves of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites were implemented at 1.52 V *vs*. RHE for approximately 15 h in Fig. 7b. What is clear is that the current density reached about 10 mA cm−2 maintains constant during the whole time verifying the favorable durability of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites with negligible loss of the anodic current in alkaline solution.

**Fig. 7** (a) Nyquist plots of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CNTs and CoFe-N-CN were proceeded at 0.53 V *vs.* Ag/AgCl; (b) CP curves of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs hybrid at 1.52 V *vs*. RHE in O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH.

### **Conclusions**

In summary, CoFe alloy nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets/carbon nanotubes (CoFe-N-CN/CNTs) hybrid as a high-efficiency electrocatalysts for the OER has been successfully prepared by a novel lyophilized and thermal two step procedure. The electrochemical measurements showed that CoFe-N-CN/CNTs performed excellent OER activities and longterm durability, which might be ascribed to the reasons as follows: (i) the lyophilization step in the synthetic procedure brought about uniform dispersion of carbon-like precursors and avoided the agglomeration of metal particles; (ii) the synergistic effect between CoFe-embedding and N-doping to form M-N<sup>x</sup> (M=Co, Fe) species which can be regarded as efficient active sites played significant roles in enhancing the OER activity; (iii) the N dopant introduced more active sites (graphitic N and pyridinic N) for catalytic reaction and anchoring sites for metal nanoparticles deposition; (iv) the efficient interaction within the CoFe alloy nanoparticles was beneficial to enhance the catalytic activity; (v) the inserted CNTs contributed to enhance conductivity and provide faster electron transfer; (vi) the encapsulating porous carbon structure not only owned high specific surface area and multidimensional mass/electron transport pathways, but also protected CoFe nanoparticles for superior stability in alkaline medium. In consequence, this electrocatalyst may be a promising low-cost substitute to precious metal catalysts for the OER.

### **Experimental Section**

### **Materials**

The type of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) was TNM5 (external diameter: 20- 30 nm, length: 10-30 μm, ≧ 98% w/w) which were purchased from Chengdu Organic Chemicals Co.,Ltd. Chinese Academy of Sciences. Urea (≧99% w/w), Glucose (C6H12O6·H2O), Cobalt (II) nitrate hexahydrate (Co(NO3)2·6H2O, ≧ 99% w/w) and Ferric nitrate nonahydrate (Fe(NO3)3·9H2O, ≧98.5% w/w) were supplied from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co.,Ltd. Nafion (5 wt%) RuO<sup>2</sup> (99.95%) and IrO<sup>2</sup> (99.99%) were obtained from Alfa Aesar. All the reagents applied in this experiment were of analytical grade and not further purified. The water used throughout the experiment is the deionized water (18.2 MΩ).

#### **Preparation of CoFe-N-CN/CNTs**

The CoFe-N-CN/CNTs was synthesized by a one-pot lyophilization and then by a thermal treatment. In a typical experiment, 10 mg CNTs in 10 mL deionized water was sonicated for 1 h to get a uniform solution, then 1 g urea and 50 mg glucose were added with another 0.5 h sonication. 5 mL of aqueous solution involving 0.5 mmol Co(NO3)2·6H2O and 1 mmol Fe(NO3)3·9H2O was fed into above solution drop by drop. Subsequently, the mixture was lyophilized for 48 h after sonication uniformly. Afterwards, the freeze-dried gray powder was put into a combustion boat and calcined from room temperature to 800 °C for 2 h in Ar atmosphere at the rate of 3 °C min−1 .

The N-CN/CNTs hybrid was performed by lyophilizing the homogeneousdispersed mixture of 10 mg CNTs, 1g urea and 50 mg glucose and then calcined under above condition. The other samples in this study such as CoFe-N-CNTs, CoFe-CN/CNTs, CoFe-N-CN, Co-N-CN/CNTs and Fe-N-CN/CNTs were synthesized by the similar way. The CoFe-N-CN/CNTsEVA

hybrid was prepared by evaporating precursors to dryness at 80 °C and then calcining.

#### **Characterization**

Characterization instruments for the CoFe-N-CN/CNTs composites was placed in Supporting Information.

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

Electrochemical measurements were proceeded by the electrochemical workstation (CHI 660E, Shanghai Chenhua) at room temperature and without iR compensation. A graphite rode and an Ag/AgCl (3 M KCl) electrode were used as counter and reference electrodes, respectively. A glassy carbon electrode (GCE, 3.0 mm in diameter) loaded with 5 μL catalyst ink (loading 0.285 mg cm−2 ) was act as working electrode. The catalyst ink was obtained by dispersing 4 mg catalysts and 30 μL Nafion solutions (0.5 wt%) in 1 mL mixed solvent of water and ethanol (1:1) and then sonicating uniformly. The potentials (*vs.* Ag/AgCl) which appeared throughout the article were translated into reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by Nernst equation: ERHE = EAg/AgCl +0.059pH + EAg/AgCl<sup>θ</sup> ,( EAg/AgCl<sup>θ</sup>= 0.197 V).[42] In addition, the OER measurements were mentioned in Supporting Information.

#### **Acknowledgements ((optional))**

This work was supported by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (lzujbky-2017-kb11).

**Keywords:** lyophilization • carbon nanotubes • N-doped carbon materials • CoFe alloy • oxygen evolution reaction

- [1] a) J. G. Lee, J. Hwang, H. J. Hwang, O. S. Jeon, J. Jang, O. Kwon, Y. Lee, B. Han, Y.-G. Shul, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3541-3547; b) Y. Wang, C. Xie, Z. Zhang, D. Liu, R. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*  **2018**, *28*, 1703363.
- [2] F. Lu, M. Zhou, Y. Zhou, X. Zeng, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1701931.
- [3] M. Gong, H. Dai, *Nano. Res.* **2014**, *8*, 23-39.
- [4] a) N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337-365; b) D. Yan, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Zou, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, D. Liu, S. Shen, S. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 805-810.
- [5] a) Y. P. Zhu, C. Guo, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2017**, *50*, 915-923; b) J. Wei, Y. Hu, Z. Wu, Y. Liang, S. Leong, B. Kong, X. Zhang, D. Zhao, G. P. Simon, H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 16867-16873.
- [6] a) X. Li, Y. Fang, F. Li, M. Tian, X. Long, J. Jin, J. Ma, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 15501-15510; b) Z. Xing, W. Lei, Z. Zhenzhan, C. Xianlang, Z. Jian, Z. Yulin, Z. Guilin, L. Xiaonian, W. Jianguo, *Adv. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *4*, 1601029.
- [7] a) D. He, Y. Jiang, H. Lv, M. Pan, S. Mu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2013**, *132-133*, 379-388; b) Z. Xing, W. Lei, Z. Hu, Q. Yingying, X. Wenlei, J. Yu, S. Youyi, S. Zheqi, Z. Guilin, L. Xiaonian, M. Donghai, W. Jian‐Guo, *Advanced Materials Interfaces* **2015**, *2*, 1500365; c) X. Zhong, Y. Qin, X. Chen, W. Xu, G. Zhuang, X. Li, J. Wang, *Carbon* **2017**, *114*, 740-748.
- [8] S. Chao, Z. Bai, Q. Cui, H. Yan, K. Wang, L. Yang, *Carbon* **2015**, *82*, 77- 86.
- [9] N. Chandrasekaran, S. Muthusamy, *Langmuir* **2017**, *33*, 2-10.
- [10] a) J. Yang, X. Wang, B. Li, L. Ma, L. Shi, Y. Xiong, H. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1606497; b) X. Cui, P. Ren, D. Deng, J. Deng, X. Bao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 123-129.
- [11] J. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 2100-2104.

- [12] a) Z. Jin, H. Nie, Z. Yang, J. Zhang, Z. Liu, X. Xu, S. Huang, *Nanoscale*  **2012**, *4*, 6455-6460; b) H. R. Byon, B. M. Gallant, S. W. Lee, Y. Shao-Horn, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2013**, *23*, 1037-1045; c) Y. Jia, S. Haiyan, L. Haiyi, J. Hengxing, S. Li, G. Chao, X. Hangxun, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 4606-4613.
- [13] Y. Hou, S. Cui, Z. Wen, X. Guo, X. Feng, J. Chen, *Small* **2015**, *11*, 5940- 5948.
- [14] a) J. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, L. Yu, F. Yang, X. Bao, *Energy Environ. Sci.*  **2014**, *7*, 1919-1923; b) G. Yang, W. Choi, X. Pu, C. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 1799-1807.
- [15] a) C. Zhu, C. Kim, Y. Aoki, H. Habazaki, *Adv. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *4*, 1700583; b) L. Hu, R. Zhang, L. Wei, F. Zhang, Q. Chen, *Nanoscale*  **2015**, *7*, 450-454.
- [16] a) B. Jeong, D. Shin, J. K. Lee, D. H. Kim, Y. D. Kim, J. Lee, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 13807-13813; b) M. Li, L. Liu, Y. Xiong, X. Liu, A. Nsabimana, X. Bo, L. Guo, *Sensor. Actuat. B-Chem.* **2015**, *207*, 614- 622; c) Z. Wang, M. Li, L. Fan, J. Han, Y. Xiong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2017**, *401*, 89-99.
- [17] J. Deng, L. Yu, D. Deng, X. Chen, F. Yang, X. Bao, *J. Mater. Chem. A*  **2013**, *1*, 14868.
- [18] J. Chen, Y. Yang, J. Su, P. Jiang, G. Xia, Q. Chen, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 3596-3601.
- [19] a) C. Han, X. Bo, J. Liu, M. Li, M. Zhou, L. Guo, *J.Alloy. Compd.* **2017**, *710*, 57-65; b) Z. Gao, L. Wang, J. Chang, C. Chen, D. Wu, F. Xu, K. Jiang, *J. Power Sources* **2017**, *348*, 158-167; c) S. H. Noh, M. H. Seo, J. Kang, T. Okajima, B. Han, T. Ohsaka, *NPG Asia Mater.* **2016**, *8*, e312 e312.
- [20] P. Cai, Y. Hong, S. Ci, Z. Wen, *Nanoscale* **2016**, *8*, 20048-20055.
- [21] a) G. Lee, C. Lee, C. M. Yoon, M. Kim, J. Jang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 5222-5230; b) Y. Cao, J. Feng, P. Wu, *Carbon* **2010**, *48*, 3834-3839.
- [22] a) Y. Xin, J.-g. Liu, Y. Zhou, W. Liu, J. Gao, Y. Xie, Y. Yin, Z. Zou, *J. Power Sources* **2011**, *196*, 1012-1018; b) W. Li, F. Li, X. Wang, Y. Tang, Y. Yang, W. Gao, R. Li, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2017**, *401*, 190-197.
- [23] J. Wang, W. Cui, Q. Liu, Z. Xing, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 215-230.
- [24] B. H. R. Suryanto, S. Chen, J. Duan, C. Zhao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 35513-35522.
- [25] F. Li, L. Zhang, J. Li, X. Lin, X. Li, Y. Fang, J. Huang, W. Li, M. Tian, J. Jin, R. Li, *J. Power Sources* **2015**, *292*, 15-22.
- [26] M. Li, T. Liu, L. Fan, X. Bo, L. Guo, *J.Alloy. Compd.* **2016**, *686*, 467-478.
- [27] a) Z. Wang, S. Xiao, Z. Zhu, X. Long, X. Zheng, X. Lu, S. Yang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 4048-4055; b) X. Zou, X. Huang, A.

- Goswami, R. Silva, B. R. Sathe, E. Mikmeková, T. Asefa, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *126*, 4461-4465.
- [28] M. Zhai, F. Wang, H. Du, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 40171- 40179.
- [29] M. Yan, Y. Hua, F. Zhu, L. Sun, W. Gu, W. Shi, *Appl. Catal., B* **2017**, *206*, 531-537.
- [30] X. Zhong, W. Xu, L. Wang, Y. Qin, G. Zhuang, X. Li, J.-g. Wang, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2016**, *6*, 5942-5948.
- [31] Y. Liu, H. Jiang, Y. Zhu, X. Yang, C. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 1694- 1701.
- [32] a) D.-S. Um, J.-C. Woo, X. Yang, C.-I. Kim, *Ferroelectrics* **2010**, *406*, 185-191; b) J. P. Bonnelle, J. Grimblot, A. D'Huysser, *J. Electron. Spectrosc. Relat. Phenom.* **1975**, *7*, 151-162.
- [33] P. Zhang, L. Li, D. Nordlund, H. Chen, L. Fan, B. Zhang, X. Sheng, Q. Daniel, L. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 381.
- [34] S. K. Singh, D. Kumar, V. M. Dhavale, S. Pal, S. Kurungot, *Adv. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *3*, 1600532.
- [35] Y. Zhao, R. Nakamura, K. Kamiya, S. Nakanishi, K. Hashimoto, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2390.
- [36] Y. Liu, J. Li, F. Li, W. Li, H. Yang, X. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Ma, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 4472-4478.
- [37] a) W. J. Jiang, L. Gu, L. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. J. Zhang, J. Q. Wang, J. S. Hu, Z. Wei, L. J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 3570-3578; b) Q. Wang, Z. Chen, N. Wu, B. Wang, W. He, Y. Lei, Y. Wang, *ChemElectroChem* **2017**, *4*, 514-520; c) J. Yin, Q. Fan, Y. Li, F. Cheng, P. Zhou, P. Xi, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 14546-14549; d) L. Zhong, J. O. Jensen, L. N. Cleemann, C. Pan, Q. Li, *Sci. Bull.* **2018**, *63*, 24-30.
- [38] a) B. Iandolo, A. Hellman, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 13404- 13408; b) M. A. Butler, *Journal of Applied Physics* **1977**, *48*, 1914-1920.
- [39] X. Zou, X. Huang, A. Goswami, R. Silva, B. R. Sathe, E. Mikmeková, T. Asefa, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 4372-4376.
- [40] J. Li, F. Li, S. X. Guo, J. Zhang, J. Ma, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 8151-8160.
- [41] H. Yang, Y. Liu, S. Luo, Z. Zhao, X. Wang, Y. Luo, Z. Wang, J. Jin, J. Ma, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 5557-5567.
- [42] X. Lu, W.-L. Yim, B. H. R. Suryanto, C. Zhao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 2901-2907.

## **Entry for the Table of Contents** (Please choose one layout) FULL PAPER

*Yang Liu, Feng Li, Haidong Yang, Jing Li , Ping Ma, Yan Zhu and Jiantai Ma*\*

#### *Page No. – Page No.*

**A lyophilized and thermal two step synthesis of CoFe alloy nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets/carbon nanotubes for highly-efficient oxygen evolution reaction**

In this article, a novel lyophilized and thermal two step procedure was adopt to synthesize a high-performanced CoFe nanoparticles embedded in N-doped carbon nanosheets interspersed with carbon nanotubes (CoFe-N-CN/CNTs) hybrid which displays remarkably long durability and excellent OER activities with a low overpotential of 285 mV at 10 mA cm-2 and a small Tafel slope of 51.09 mV dec-1 .