---
source: Liu 等 - 2018 - Hierarchical Cobalt BorateMXenes Hybrid with Extraordinary Electrocatalytic Performance in Oxygen E.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 35.955s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:18:36.316100Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Hierarchical Cobalt Borate/MXenes Hybrid with Extraordinary Electrocatalytic Performance in Oxygen Evolution Reaction

**Authors:** Jiapeng Liu, Tao Chen, Peng Juan, Wenchao Peng, Yang Li, Fengbao Zhang, and Xiaobin Fan

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemSusChem* 10.1002/cssc.201802098

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201802098

# **Hierarchical Cobalt Borate/MXenes Hybrid with Extraordinary Electrocatalytic Performance in Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Jiapeng Liu[a], Tao Chen[a], Peng Juan[a], Wenchao Peng[a], Yang Li[a], Fengbao Zhang[a], and Xiaobin Fan\*[a]

**Abstract:** Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is a key reaction of many renewable energy storage and conversion techniques. Developing efficient non-precious metal electrocatalysts for OER has attracted increasing attentions. Herein, we report a fast strategy to fabricate the hierarchical cobalt borates/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> MXene (Co-Bi/Ti3C2Tx) through fast chemical reactions at room temperature. This interesting hierarchical structure is beneficial for the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid to expose more active sites, shorten the mass diffusion and charge transfer pathway upon electrochemical reaction. Moreover, strong interaction between Co-B<sup>i</sup> and Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> guarantees their prominent charge transfer and facilitates the electrostatic attraction of more anionic intermediates for fast redox process. As a result, this hierarchical Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid shows extraordinary OER catalytic activity, with the overpotential of 250 mV to deliver the current density of 10 mA cm–2 and a Tafel slope of about 53 mV dec–1 .

## **Introduction**

Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) plays an important role in many sustainable energy conversion and storage methods, such as electrochemica water splitting, rechargeable metalair batteries and electrochemical carbon dioxides reductions.[1] However, the sluggish kinetics and high overpotential of OER make it imperative to search for highperformance catalysts. To date, the noble-metal based materials (RuO<sup>2</sup> and IrO2) have been considered as the most active catalysts for OER, but the high cost and scarcity severely hinder their pervasive application. Therefore, great efforts have been made to develop earth-abundant catalysts that potentially could replace noble-metal based materials.[2] Among them, the metal–borides/borates materials have attracted increasing attentions owing to low cost, high intrinsic activity and superior stability.[3]

The density of exposed surface active sites is identified as a key factor influencing OER catalytic activity of metalborides/borates. Therefore, considerable efforts focused on engineering high surface active sites, such as high surface area nickel boride, cobalt–borate nanowire array, cobaltborate nanosheet array, nickel-cobalt-borate nanosheet arrays and nickel-cobalt boride film.[4] The electrocatalytic performance of the metal-borides/borates are also

determined by some kinetic factors, especially the electron transport between the metal-borides/borates and electrolyte. Therefore, conductive additives or supports, such as carbon nanotubes, 3D graphene foam, carbon cloth ,carbon paper and graphene, are usually introduced to reduce the resistive loss and enhance the catalytic activity, such as cobalt borate nanosheets/graphene hybrid, cobalt-borate/carbon nanotubes, cobalt borate/graphene foam, cobalt borate/carbon cloth.

Two-dimensional (2D) MXenes, such as Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> (T<sup>x</sup> denotes surface functionalization, such as –OH, –O and –F), is a new member of 2D materials.[6] Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> shows distinguished characteristics such as rich chemistries, highly hydrophilic surfaces and outstanding electrical conductivity with chemically functionalization tunable characters.[7] This unique character is hardly acquired in the traditional 2D material such as graphene and transition metal dichalcogenides.[8] In this regard, the Ti3C2Txcould be the superior substitute of chemically functionalized graphene for many processes where fast charge transfer kinetics, strong interfacial coupling and large active surface area is desirable. In particular, it has shown promising applications in electrochemical catalysis, electrochemical energy storage and conversion, etc. For example, MXenes supported Mn3O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticles, Fe3O<sup>4</sup> nanoparticles, polymer, carbon nanotube, few-layered MoS2, Co-BDC MOF, graphitic carbon nitride and layered double hydroxide catalysts have been successfully prepared and showed excellent catalytic performances in oxygen reduction reaction, supercapacitors, battery, hydrogen evolution reaction and OER.[9] Nevertheless, the development of MXene-based OER catalyst is still in a very infant stage in contrast to the prosperity of other 2D materials.

In this study, we report a simple strategy to fabricate the hierarchical cobalt borates/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> MXene (Co-Bi/Ti3C2Tx) through fast chemical reactions at room temperature. The novel hierarchical Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid shows outstanding OER catalytic activity, with overpotential of 250 mV to deliver the current density of 10 mA cm–2 and Tafel slope of about 53 mV dec–1 .

## **Results and Discussion**

The preparation process of the hierarchical Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid is illustrated in the Scheme 1. In brief, Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets were prepared by etching and intercalating Ti3AlC<sup>2</sup> with HF and organic base. During this process, negatively charged –OH and –F groups are introduced on the surface of Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets, facilitating the nucleation

*E-mail:* xiaobinfan@tju.edu.cn

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

<sup>[</sup>a] J. Liu, T. Chen, P. Juan. Peng, W. Peng, Y. Li, F. Zhang, Prof. X. Fan School of School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, China, 300072

**Scheme 1.** Preparation of the hierarchical Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid at room temperature.

and anchoring of amorphous Co-Binanosheets on Ti3C2Tx. The Co-Bi/Ti3C2Txhybrid was finally obtained through dropping sodium borohydride (NaBH4) aqueous solution into the mixture of Co(NO3)<sup>2</sup> aqueous solution and Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets with continuous stirring under room-temperature (see details in the experimental section).

**Figure 1.** a) Representative SEM of the exfoliated Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets. (b-d) Typical SEM of the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid under different magnifications.

The typical morphologies of as-prepared materials were observed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The distinct accordion-like layer morphology Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> MXene after HF-etching can be observed from Figure S1. The unique morphology manifests the Al was removed from the pristine Ti3AlC<sup>2</sup> particles (Figure S2). After organic base TMAOH intercalating and exfoliating, the few-layers 2D Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets with a clean surface and an average lateral size of several micrometers are displayed in Figure 1a. On the other hand, the amorphous Co-Bishows aggregated nanostructure with the random stacking of small nanosheets (Figure S3). Representative SEM of the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid is shown in Figure 1b-d. Interesting hierarchical structure with abundant small Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets on the 2D Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> can be readily observed. Actually, the Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets provide the 2D templates for the growth of amorphous Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets and suppress their aggregation.

To provide more details and the composition of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and elemental mapping were employed. As shown in Figure 2a-b, the amorphous Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets that grown on Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> show obvious folding, and abundant wrinkles can be easily observed. High-resolution TEM (Figure 2c) proves that these Co-Binanosheets are amorphous in nature. Meanwhile, the visible lattice fringes with a spacing of about 0.235 nm that corresponds to the (103) lattice plane of Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets.[10] EDX elemental mapping images (Figure 2d-i) confirm that the homogenous dispersion of Co, B, Ti, C and O along with the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid nanostructure. The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) specific area of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid is determined to be 102 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 , higher than that of Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets (47 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ) and Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets (19 m<sup>2</sup> g - 1 ). The corresponding N<sup>2</sup> adsorption/desorption isotherms of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid, Co-Binanosheets and Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets are shown in the Figure S4-6. Note that this interesting hierarchical structure should be beneficial for the Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets to expose more active sites, shorten the mass diffusion and charge transfer pathway upon electrochemical reactions.

The structure and phase characteristics of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid, Co-B<sup>i</sup> and Ti3C2Txnanosheets were determined by XRD (Figure 3a). In line with the TEM results above, the XRD patterns of both the Co-B<sup>i</sup> and Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid show no obvious characteristic peak, manifesting the amorphous structure of Co-Bi. Meanwhile, the disappearance of (002) peak from the Ti3C2Tx nanosheets in the XRD pattern of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid implies that the restacking of MXene sheets have been inhibited, due to the growth of abundant small Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets on their surface. These results here are consistent with the SEM and TEM observation and suggest the successful preparation of the hierarchical Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid.

Raman spectroscopic of Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets and Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid are shown in the Figure 3b. According to previous reports, the Raman spectra of exfoliated Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets includes three broad peaks at approximately 202, 378 and 605 cm−1 , which can be attributed to the vibrations from non-stoichiometric Ti3C2Tx. [11] These three characteristic peaks are clearly observed in the corresponding Raman spectra of the Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> and the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid. It's worth noting that the characteristic peak for

**Figure 2.** a-b) Representative TEM of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid. (black arrows point at some Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets). (c)Typical highresolution TEM of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid. (d-i) TEM images and EDX elemental mapping of Co, B, Ti, C and O of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid.

Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid (202 cm−1 attributed to the Ti−C vibrations) is up-shifted and broadened compared with that of Ti3C2Tx. This may be attributed to the formation of the chemical binding of Co-B<sup>i</sup> to Ti3C2Tx. Similar phenomena have been observed for other 2D material, such as graphene.[12] Note that there is no Raman peak of Co-Bi can be found in the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid, attributed to the amorphous nature of the Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets (Figure S7).

In order to further acquire the chemical composition and valence state of the products, we executed X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis on all the

samples. All the XPS peaks were calibrated by C 1s (284.6 eV). The survey scan of the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid (Figure S8) clearly reveals the existence of Co, B, Ti, C and O elements, in concert with TEM Mapping. The Co 2p high-resolution spectrum of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid (Figure 4a) exhibits the characteristic peaks at 781.9 eV and 797.9 eV, corresponding to the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 doublet of Co2+ . [5a] Note that these two peaks in the hybrid are significantly shifted by ~0.6 eV to higher binding energy when compared with the Co-Bi. This phenomenon identifies the chemical binding of Co-B<sup>i</sup> to Ti3C2Tx. Normally, the chemical binding may be

 $\textbf{Figure 3.} \ \, \text{a) XRD patterns of Co-$B_i$/$Ti}_3C_2T_x \ \, \text{hybrid, Co-$B_i$ and Ti}_3C_2T_x \ \, \text{nanosheets.} \ \, \text{(b)}Raman \ \, \text{spectra of Ti}_3C_2T_x \ \, \text{nanosheets and Co-$B_i$/$Ti}_3C_2T_x \ \, \text{hybrid}$ 

beneficial to spontaneous charge transfer from the Co-B<sub>i</sub> to Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub>, which makes Co centers in Co-B<sub>i</sub> more positively charged and thus facilitates the electrostatic attraction of more anionic intermediates for fast redox process in alkaline medium. [9i] This assumption is supported by the Ti 2p highresolution spectra of the  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid. As shown in Figure 4b, four doublets (Ti 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Ti 2p<sub>1/2</sub>) was used to fitted the core-level spectra. Compared with the Ti 2p highresolution of Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> nanosheets, TiO<sub>2</sub>, Ti<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> and Ti-X peaks are shifted to much lower binding energy.[13] The strong interaction between Co-Bi and Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> combining with the electron transfer should accelerate the redox process of Co- $B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid during the electrocatalytic OER. As observed, in the B region, the peak at 192.1 eV can be can be assigned to the 1s core levels of B3+ in borate species (Figure S9). [3p, 4d, 5a, 5c, 5d] And the C 1s high-resolution (Figure S10) is in keep with the previous reports. [7c, 9e, 14]

To systematically evaluate the electrocatalytic OER performance of the Co-B<sub>I</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid, a film of the samples was uniformly cast onto glassy carbon electrode and tested using a standard three-electrode system in 1 M KOH solution (see details in the experimental section). For comparison, the Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> and Co-B<sub>i</sub> nanosheets were used as controls. As shown in the Figure 5a, the iR-corrected polarization curves of Co-B<sub>i</sub> nanosheets exhibit a small overpotential requirement of 310 mV versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) to achieve a current density 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, whereas the Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> shows no catalytic activity for water oxidation within the examined potential window. However, the Co-B<sub>I</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid can afford the current density at a very small overpotential of 250 mV vs RHE,

**Figure 4.** a) Co 2p high-resolution XPS spectra of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid and  $Co-B_i$  nanosheets. (b) Ti 2p high-resolution XPS spectra of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid and  $Ti_3C_2T_x$  nanosheets

**Figure 5.** a) Polarization curves and (b) Tafel plots of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid,  $Co-B_i$  nanosheets. (c) Polarization curves were recorded for  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid before and after 1000 potential cycles. Insert: long-term chronopotentiometric stability behaviour of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid at constant overpotentials of 250 mV. (d) Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid,  $Co-B_i$  nanosheet. Inset: The partial enlargement electrochemical impedance spectroscopy of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid,  $Co-B_i$  nanosheet. (e) Ring current of  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid on RRDE (1600 rpm) in  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid on RRDE (1600 rpm) in  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  using the RRDE technique with a ring potential of 0.40 V in  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  using the RRDE technique with a ring potential of 0.40 V in  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  using the RRDE technique with a ring

much smaller than that of  $Co-B_i$  controls. Note that the performance of the  $Co-B_i/Ti_3C_2T_x$  hybrid is superior to that of reported non-noble-metal catalysts under alkaline conditions (Table S1).

The OER kinetics of the as-prepared catalysts were also investigated by the corresponding Tafel plots according to the Tafel equation. As shown in the Figure 5b, note that the corresponding Tafel plots of Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid was 53 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, smaller than that of Co-B<sub>i</sub> nanosheets (73 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting the favorable catalytic reaction kinetics of Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid. This result suggests the improved OER reaction kinetics because of the enhanced electron transfer capacity and strong coupled effects.

Moreover, long–term stability is another crucial criterion for a good electrocatalyst broader applications. The continuous CV cycling test was studied to probe their stability at a 100 mVs $^{-1}$  scan rate in 1 M KOH solution. As shown in Figure 5c, negligible decay of polarization curve can be noticed before and after 1000 cycles, which indicated that negligible loss in OER activity. In addition, the durability of Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid was also examined by chronopotentiometry at a static overpotential of 250 mV. The inset of Figure 5c shows that the current density experienced a negligible loss at ~10 mA cm $^{-2}$  for 20 h. The negligible difference confirms the

outstanding durability of the Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid as electrocatalysts in OER. The morphological and compositional after stability tests of the Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid were further investigated. Note that the hierarchical nanostructure did not change even after the stability tests, as shown in the Figure 6a-b. Meanwhile, the chemical states and surface chemical compositions of the Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid also show no obvious change after stability tests (Figure S11-13). These results also demonstrate that the Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid has a good stability.

**Figure 6.** a-b) Representative SEM of the Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid after stability tests under different magnifications

To obtain further insight into the electrode kinetics of the Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid in the OER process, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was also performed. The Nyquist plots depicted in Figure 5d showed that Co-B<sub>i</sub>/Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> hybrid has a much smaller charge-transfer

resistance than Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets, suggesting Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid possesses the faster charge transfer process owing to the presence of Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> nanosheets. The partial enlargement image inserted in the Figure 5d also clearly shows that Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid has a small charge-transfer resistance. According to the previous study on the cobalt borate nanosheets/graphene hybrid, the conductivity of the hybrid plays an important role in the electrocatalytic OER performances.[5a] Hence, the introduced Ti3C2Txnot only prevent the agglomeration of Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets, but also serves as an excellent conductive additive to facilitate the electron transfer from the substrate to the Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets.

Furthermore, to provide insight into the reaction mechanism, the rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) has been employed to analyze the peroxide intermediates that formed at the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid surface during the OER process. As shown in the Figure 5e, a very low ring current density (μA scale) was detected, which is 3 orders of magnitude lower than that of the disk current (mA scale). In addition, the ring current gradually decreases from low potential to high potential, indicating that fewer peroxide intermediates formed at the high potential region. This result demonstrates that negligible peroxide intermediates formed and therefore a desirable four-electron pathway for the OER process (4 OH<sup>−</sup> → O<sup>2</sup> + 2 H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup> ). To further verify that the observed disk current is originating from water oxidation rather than other side reaction, the OER Faradaic efficiency test was carried out by the RRDE technique. A continuous OER (disk electrode) → ORR (ring electrode) process was performed by RRDE with a ring electrode.[3c, 5a, 15] When the disk current is held constant at 300 μA to generate O<sup>2</sup> molecules from the surface of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid, and then the O<sup>2</sup> molecules are rapidly reduced by sweeping across the surrounding Pt ring electrode at an ORR potential of 0.40 V versus RHE (Figure 5f). Consequently, the detected ring current is ∼59.4 μA, corresponding to high Faradaic efficiency of 99.1%. This result confirms that the observed oxidation current catalyzed by Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid can be exclusively attributed to OER process. Hence, these electrochemical results demonstrate that Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid is a promising catalyst for OER in alkaline medium.

## **Conclusion**

In summary, we report a facile strategy to synthesize the hierarchical Co-Bi/Ti3C2Tx hybrid through fast roomtemperature chemical approach. The presence of Ti3C2Txnot only suppresses the aggregation of amorphous Co-Bi, but also enhance the electron transfer capacity. Meanwhile, strong interaction between Co-Biand Ti3C2Txguarantees their prominent charge transfer and facilitates the electrostatic attraction of more anionic intermediates for fast redox process. Therefore, the Co-Bi/Ti3C2Txhybrid shows extraordinary OER catalytic activity, with the overpotential of 250 mV to deliver the current density of 10 mA cm–2 and a Tafel slope of about 53 mV dec–1 . This method described here may be applicable to the fabrication of MXene-based hybrids for a variety of application.

### **Experimental section**

**Synthesis of Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> MXenes.** Hydrofluoric acid (HF) solutions was used to synthesize Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> by etching Ti3AlC<sup>2</sup> according to a previous literature.[16] Specifically, 1 g Ti3AlC<sup>2</sup> [Forsman Scientific (Beijing) Co., Ltd] were immersed into 10 ml 40% HF solutions [Aladdin (shanghai) Co., Ltd] slowly, then the reaction mixture was held for 18 hours at room temperature. After etching for 18 hours, the mixture was washed through several cycles of distilled water addition by centrifugation, until the pH value of the supernatant reached approximately 6. The powders were then dispersed in the 50 ml TMAOH [Tetramethylammonium hydroxide 25 wt% aqueous solution, J&K Scientific (Beijing) Co., Ltd] and shook in the water bath shaker for 24 hours at room temperature. Then the mixture was rinsed with for deionized water three times to remove residual TMAOH. Centrifugation for 30 min at 3500 rpm, the supernatant was separated from the sediment. The concentration of the supernatant was determined by lyophilizating a known volume of supernatant and measuring the weight of the powder.

**Synthesis of Co-B<sup>i</sup> nanosheets grown on Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> MXenes (Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid):** The Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrids were prepared according to previous report with slightly modification.[5a] In a typical synthesis, 291 mg cobalt nitrate hexahydrate was poured into a 250 ml beaker and added then 80 ml deionized water to guarantee to complete dissolution under ultra-sonication. Subsequently 10 ml Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> (2 mg/ml) were slowly added to the beaker and sonicated 15 min. And then, 5 ml sodium borohydride aqoeous solution (0.5 M) in 0.1 M NaOH was rapidly added to the beaker and vigorous stirred for 40 min at room temperature. At this stage, vigorous frothing occurred when the sodium borohydride solution was added quickly to the beaker and instantaneous formation of a large number of dark precipitate. The resulting precipitate was washed through several cycles of distilled water and ethanol addition. The resulting products were dried through lyophilization for further characterizations.

**Synthesis of Co-B<sup>i</sup> hierarchical nanosheets.** The preparation process was similar with the preparation of Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid except for without the introduction of Ti3C2Tx.

### **Electrode Preparation and Electrochemical Measurements.**

All the electrochemical measurements were carried out at ambient temperature in a standard three-electrode electrochemical cell with an electrochemical station (CHI 660D electrochemical station) in 1 M KOH. An Ag/AgCl (saturated KCl-filled) electrode was used reference electrode. A glassy carbon electrode (3 mm in diameter) was served as

the support for the working electrode. A graphite rod was used as counter electrode. Typically, 4 mg of catalysts and 40 μl 0.5 wt% Nafion solution were dispersed in the 1 ml water-ethanol solution with volume ratio of 4:1 by sonicating to generate a homogeneous ink. In short, 5 μl well-dispersed catalysts was pipetted onto the glassy carbon electrode surface and then dried at ambient temperature for measurements. Polarization curves were obtained by linear sweep voltammetry with scan rate of 5 mVs-1 . The long-term electrochemical stability tests were evaluated by continuous cycling at a scan rate of 100 mVs-1 . Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy was studied over a frequency sweeping 100 K to 0.1 Hz at overpotential of 200 mV with an amplitude of 5 mV AC impedance. All the potentials used in the paper here was converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), based on the Nernst equation ERHE =EAg/AgCl+0.059pH+EAg/AgCl θ .

In order to investigate the reaction mechanism for OER, RRDE voltammograms were performed by a Pt ring electrode and a glassy carbon disk electrode. The synthesized Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid was coated on the RRDE using above method. The RRDE tests were carried out at a scan rate of 5 mV s-1 with a rotation rate of 1600 rpm. Specifically, to detect the formed peroxide intermediates, the ring potential was held constantly at 1.5V vs. RHE in O2 saturated 1M KOH solution. To further verify that the observed disk current is originating from water oxidation rather than other side reaction and to calculate the Faradaic efficiency, a continuous OER (disk electrode) → ORR (ring electrode) process was performed by RRDE in a N2 saturated 1 M KOH solution. The ring potential was fixed at 0.40 V vs. RHE to reduce the O<sup>2</sup> molecules formed the Co-Bi/Ti3C2T<sup>x</sup> hybrid on the disk electrode. The Faradaic efficiency (ε) was calculated as follows:

ε = Ir/(IdN)

where I<sup>r</sup> is the ring current, Id is the disk current, and N is the current collection efficiency of the RRDE (N=0.2)

### **Characterization.**

Samples were characterized by SEM (Hitachi, S4800), TEM (JEOL, Jem-2100F), XRD (Panalytical X'Pert Pro, Cu−Kα radiation), Raman (Horiba, LabRAM HR Evolution with 532 nm laser excitation), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (Thermo Scientific, ESCALAB 250 XI).

### **Acknowledgments**

This study is supported by the National Natural Science Funds (No. 21676198) and the Program of Introducing Talents of Discipline to Universities (No. B06006).

**Keywords:** cobalt borates, MXene, hierarchical, strong interaction, oxygen evolution reaction

[1] aX. F. Lu, L. F. Gu, J. W. Wang, J. X. Wu, P. Q. Liao, G. R. Li, *Adv Mater* **2017**, *29*; bH. Liang, A. N. Gandi, D. H. Anjum, X. Wang, U. Schwingenschlogl, H. N. Alshareef, *Nano Lett* **2016**, *16*, 7718-7725; cJ. Ping, Y. Wang, Q. Lu, B. Chen, J. Chen, Y. Huang, Q. Ma, C. Tan, J. Yang, X. Cao, Z. Wang, J. Wu, Y. Ying, H. Zhang, *Adv Mater*  **2016**, *28*, 7640-7645; dD. U. Lee, P. Xu, Z. P. Cano, A. G. Kashkooli, M. G. Park, Z. Chen, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2016**, *4*, 7107-7134; eY. Yan, B. Y. Xia, B. Zhao, X. Wang, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2016**, *4*, 17587-17603; fT. Zhang, Y. Zhu, J. Y. Lee, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2018**, *6*, 8147-8158; gX. Ren, W. Wang, R. Ge, S. Hao, F. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Q. Wei, L. Chen, X. Sun, *Chem Commun* **2017**, *53*, 9000-9003; hX. Ren, G. Cui, L. Chen, F. Xie, Q. Wei, Z. Tian, X. Sun, *Chem Commun* **2018**, *54*, 8474-8477; iX. Ren, D. Wu, R. Ge, X. Sun, H. Ma, T. Yan, Y. Zhang, B. Du, Q. Wei, L. Chen, *Nano Research* **2018**, *11*, 2024- 2033.

[2] aX. Han, C. Yu, S. Zhou, C. Zhao, H. Huang, J. Yang, Z. Liu, J. Zhao, J. Qiu, *Advanced Energy Materials* **2017**, *7*; bY. Hou, M. R. Lohe, J. Zhang, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, X. Feng, *Energy & Environmental Science*  **2016**, *9*, 478-483; cJ. X. Feng, H. Xu, Y. T. Dong, S. H. Ye, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2016**, *55*, 3694-3698; dA. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rosler, W. Xia, P. Weide, A. J. Botz, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2016**, *55*, 4087-4091; eC. Hu, L. Zhang, Z. J. Zhao, J. Luo, J. Shi, Z. Huang, J. Gong, *Adv Mater* **2017**, *29*; fJ. Su, R. Ge, K. Jiang, Y. Dong, F. Hao, Z. Tian, G. Chen, L. Chen, *Adv Mater* **2018**, e1801351; gJ. Feng, F. Lv, W. Zhang, P. Li, K. Wang, C. Yang, B. Wang, Y. Yang, J. Zhou, F. Lin, G. C. Wang, S. Guo, *Adv Mater* **2017**, *29*; hM. Blasco-Ahicart, J. Soriano-Lopez, J. J. Carbo, J. M. Poblet, J. R. Galan-Mascaros, *Nat Chem* **2018**, *10*, 24-30; iD. Wu, Y. Wei, X. Ren, X. Ji, Y. Liu, X. Guo, Z. Liu, A. M. Asiri, Q. Wei, X. Sun, *Adv Mater*  **2018**, *30*; jY. Wei, X. Ren, H. Ma, X. Sun, Y. Zhang, X. Kuang, T. Yan, H. Ju, D. Wu, Q. Wei, *Chem Commun* **2018**, *54*, 1533-1536; kX. Ren, X. Ji, Y. Wei, D. Wu, Y. Zhang, M. Ma, Z. Liu, A. M. Asiri, Q. Wei, X. Sun, *Chem Commun* **2018**, *54*, 1425-1428.

[3] aS. Carenco, D. Portehault, C. Boissiere, N. Mezailles, C. Sanchez, *Chem Rev* **2013**, *113*, 7981-8065; bY. Yang, L. Zhuang, T. E. Rufford, S. Wang, Z. Zhu, *RSC Advances* **2017**, *7*, 32923-32930; cH. Li, P. Wen, Q. Li, C. Dun, J. Xing, C. Lu, S. Adhikari, L. Jiang, D. L. Carroll, S. M. Geyer, *Advanced Energy Materials* **2017**, *7*; dG. M. Arzac, T. C. Rojas, A. Fernández, *ChemCatChem* **2011**, *3*, 1305- 1313; eJ. Masa, P. Weide, D. Peeters, I. Sinev, W. Xia, Z. Sun, C. Somsen, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Advanced Energy Materials*  **2016**, *6*; fP. Kukula, V. Gabova, K. Koprivova, P. Trtik, *Catalysis Today* **2007**, *121*, 27-38; gJ. Zhang, X. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zeng, X. Cheng, Y. Wang, W. Tu, M. Pan, *Nanoscale* **2018**; hS. Gupta, N. Patel, R. Fernandes, R. Kadrekar, A. Dashora, A. K. Yadav, D. Bhattacharyya, S. N. Jha, A. Miotello, D. C. Kothari, *Applied Catalysis B: Environmental* **2016**, *192*, 126-133; iX. Ma, J. Wen, S. Zhang, H. Yuan, K. Li, F. Yan, X. Zhang, Y. Chen, *ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering* **2017**, *5*, 10266-10274; jG. N. Glavee, K. J. Klabunde, C. M. Sorensen, G. C. Hadjapanayis, *Langmuir* **1992**, *8*, 771-773; kR. Ge, X. Ren, F. Qu, D. Liu, M. Ma, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, L. Chen, X. Sun, *Chem-Eur J* **2017**, *23*, 6959-6963; lJ. M. V. Nsanzimana, V. Reddu, Y. Peng, Z. Huang, C. Wang, X. Wang, *Chem-Eur J* **2018**; mL. Zhang, R. Zhang, R. Ge, X. Ren, S. Hao, F. Xie, F. Qu, Z. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, B. Zheng, X. Sun, *Chem-Eur J* **2017**, *23*, 11499-11503; nG. Zhu, R. Ge, F. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Yao, X. Sun, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2017**, *5*, 6388- 6392; oX. Ji, S. Hao, F. Qu, J. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, L. Chen, X. Sun, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 7714-7718; pM. Ma, F. Qu, X. Ji, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Yao, L. Chen, X. Sun, *Small* **2017**, *13*; qL. Cui, F. Qu, J. Liu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *ChemSusChem*  **2017**, *10*, 1370-1374.

[4] aJ. Masa, I. Sinev, H. Mistry, E. Ventosa, M. de la Mata, J. Arbiol, M. Muhler, B. Roldan Cuenya, W. Schuhmann, *Advanced Energy Materials* **2017**, *7*; bW. J. Jiang, S. Niu, T. Tang, Q. H. Zhang, X. Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, Y. Y. Chen, J. H. Li, L. Gu, L. J. Wan, J. S. Hu, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2017**, *56*, 6572-6577; cX. Ren, R. Ge, Y. Zhang, D. Liu, D. Wu, X. Sun, B. Du, Q. Wei, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2017**, *5*, 7291-7294; dL. Chen, X. Ren, W. Teng, P. Shi, Chem-Eur J **2017**, *23*, 9741-9745; eL. Yang, D. Liu, S. Hao, R. Kong, A. M. Asiri, C. Zhang, X. Sun, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2017**, *5*, 7305-7308.

[5] aP. Chen, K. Xu, T. Zhou, Y. Tong, J. Wu, H. Cheng, X. Lu, H. Ding, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2016**, *55*, 2488-2492; bM. Zeng, H. Wang, C. Zhao, J. Wei, W. Wang, X. Bai, *Science Bulletin*  **2015**, *60*, 1426-1433; cR. Ge, H. Du, K. Tao, Q. Zhang, L. Chen, *ACS Appl Mater Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 15383-15387; dE. A. Turhan, S. V. K. Nune, E. Ulker, U. Sahin, Y. Dede, F. Karadas, *Chem-Eur J* **2018**, *24*, 10372-10382.

[6] aB. Anasori, M. R. Lukatskaya, Y. Gogotsi, *Nature Reviews Materials* **2017**, *2*; bF. Bonaccorso, L. Colombo, G. Yu, M. Stoller, V. Tozzini, A. C. Ferrari, R. S. Ruoff, V. Pellegrini, *Science* **2015**, *347*, 1246501; cM. Ghidiu, M. R. Lukatskaya, M. Q. Zhao, Y. Gogotsi, M. W. Barsoum, *Nature* **2014**, *516*, 78-81; dH. Ghassemi, W. Harlow, O. Mashtalir, M. Beidaghi, M. R. Lukatskaya, Y. Gogotsi, M. L. Taheri, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2014**, *2*; eQ. Yang,

- Z. Xu, B. Fang, T. Huang, S. Cai, H. Chen, Y. Liu, K. Gopalsamy, W. Gao, C. Gao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 22113-22119; fJ. Luo, C. Fang, C. Jin, H. Yuan, O. Sheng, R. Fang, W. Zhang, H. Huang, Y. Gan, Y. Xia, C. Liang, J. Zhang, W. Li, X. Tao, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2018**, *6*, 7794-7806.
- [7] aX. Wang, X. Shen, Y. Gao, Z. Wang, R. Yu, L. Chen, *J Am Chem Soc* **2015**, *137*, 2715-2721; bC. H. Yang, W. X. Que, X. T. Yin, Y. P. Tian, Y. W. Yang, M. D. Que, *Electrochimica Acta* **2017**, *225*, 416- 424; cY. Wen, T. E. Rufford, X. Chen, N. Li, M. Lyu, L. Dai, L. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *38*, 368-376; dZ. W. Seh, K. D. Fredrickson, B. Anasori, J. Kibsgaard, A. L. Strickler, M. R. Lukatskaya, Y. Gogotsi, T. F. Jaramillo, A. Vojvodic, *ACS Energy Letters* **2016**, *1*, 589-594; eY. Jing, Z. Zhou, C. R. Cabrera, Z. Chen, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2014**, *2*; fV. M. Hong Ng, H. Huang, K. Zhou, P. S. Lee, W. Que, J. Z. Xu, L. B. Kong, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2017**, *5*, 3039-3068.
- [8] aJ. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl* **2015**, *54*, 2100-2104; bY. L. Ding, P. Kopold, K. Hahn, P. A. van Aken, J. Maier, Y. Yu, *Adv Mater* **2016**, *28*, 7774-7782; cX. Fan, P. Xu, Y. C. Li, D. Zhou, Y. Sun, M. A. Nguyen, M. Terrones, T. E. Mallouk, *J Am Chem Soc* **2016**, *138*, 5143-5149; dX. Fan, P. Xu, D. Zhou, Y. Sun, Y. C. Li, M. A. Nguyen, M. Terrones, T. E. Mallouk, *Nano Lett* **2015**, *15*, 5956-5960.
- [9] aQ. Xue, Z. Pei, Y. Huang, M. Zhu, Z. Tang, H. Li, Y. Huang, N. Li, H. Zhang, C. Zhi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 20818-20823; bM. Zhu, Y. Huang, Q. Deng, J. Zhou, Z. Pei, Q. Xue, Y. Huang, Z. Wang, H. Li, Q. Huang, C. Zhi, *Advanced Energy Materials* **2016**, *6*; cM. Q. Zhao, C. E. Ren, Z. Ling, M. R. Lukatskaya, C. Zhang, K. L. Van Aken, M. W. Barsoum, Y. Gogotsi, *Adv Mater* **2015**, *27*, 339-345; dY. Dall'Agnese, P. Rozier, P.-L. Taberna, Y. Gogotsi, P. Simon, *Journal of Power Sources* **2016**, *306*, 510-515; eX. Liang, Y. Rangom, C. Y. Kwok, Q. Pang, L. F. Nazar, *Adv Mater* **2017**, *29*; fX. Wu, Z. Wang, M. Yu, L. Xiu, J. Qiu, *Adv Mater* **2017**, *29*; gL. Zhao, B. Dong, S. Li, L. Zhou, L. Lai, Z. Wang, S. Zhao, M. Han, K. Gao, M. Lu, X. Xie, B. Chen, Z. Liu, X. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Li, J. Liu, H. Zhang, X. Huang, W. Huang, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 5800-5807; hT. Y. Ma, J. L. Cao, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl*  **2016**, *55*, 1138-1142; iM. Yu, S. Zhou, Z. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Qiu, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *44*, 181-190; jZ. Lin, D. Sun, Q. Huang, J. Yang, M. W. Barsoum, X. Yan, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2015**, *3*, 14096-14100; kY. Wang, Y. Li, Z. Qiu, X. Wu, P. Zhou, T. Zhou, J. Zhao, Z. Miao, J. Zhou, S. Zhuo, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A*  **2018**, *6*, 11189-11197; lY. Sun, D. Jin, Y. Sun, X. Meng, Y. Gao, Y. Dall'Agnese, G. Chen, X.-F. Wang, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2018**, *6*, 9124-9131; mW. Zheng, P. Zhang, J. Chen, W. B. Tian, Y. M. Zhang, Z. M. Sun, *Journal of Materials Chemistry A* **2018**, *6*, 3543-3551.
- [10] aC. Peng, X. Yang, Y. Li, H. Yu, H. Wang, F. Peng, *Acs Applied Materials & Interfaces* **2016**, *8*; bM. Han, X. Yin, H. Wu, Z. Hou, C. Song, X. Li, L. Zhang, L. Cheng, *ACS Appl Mater Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 21011-21019.
- [11] aA. Sarycheva, T. Makaryan, K. Maleski, E. Satheeshkumar, A. Melikyan, H. Minassian, M. Yoshimura, Y. Gogotsi, *The Journal of Physical Chemistry C* **2017**, *121*, 19983-19988; bM. Han, X. Yin, X. Li, B. Anasori, L. Zhang, L. Cheng, Y. Gogotsi, *ACS Appl Mater Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 20038-20045; cX. Wang, C. Garnero, G. Rochard, D. Magne, S. Morisset, S. Hurand, P. Chartier, J. Rousseau, T. Cabioc'h, C. Coutanceau, V. Mauchamp, S. Célérier, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 22012-22023.
- [12] aI. K. Moon, J. Lee, R. S. Ruoff, H. Lee, *Nat Commun* **2010**, *1*, 73; bA. C. Ferrari, J. Robertson, *Physical Review B Condensed Matter*  **2000**, *61*, 14095-14107.
- [13] aR. B. Rakhi, B. Ahmed, M. N. Hedhili, D. H. Anjum, H. N. Alshareef, *Chemistry of Materials* **2015**, *27*, 5314-5323; bY. Dall'Agnese, M. R. Lukatskaya, K. M. Cook, P. L. Taberna, Y. Gogotsi, P. Simon, *Electrochemistry Communications* **2014**, *48*, 118-122; cC. Peng, X. Yang, Y. Li, H. Yu, H. Wang, F. Peng, *ACS Appl Mater Interfaces*  **2016**, *8*, 6051-6060.
- [14] aM. Naguib, M. Kurtoglu, V. Presser, J. Lu, J. Niu, M. Heon, L. Hultman, Y. Gogotsi, M. W. Barsoum, *Adv Mater* **2011**, *23*, 4248- 4253; bM. Naguib, O. Mashtalir, J. Carle, V. Presser, J. Lu, L. Hultman, Y. Gogotsi, M. W. Barsoum, *ACS Nano* **2012**, *6*, 1322- 1331; cB. Anasori, Y. Xie, M. Beidaghi, J. Lu, B. C. Hosler, L. Hultman, P. R. C. Kent, Y. Gogotsi, M. W. Barsoum, *ACS Nano*  **2015**, *9*, 9507-9516.
- [15] aT. Y. Ma, S. Dai, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *J Am Chem Soc* **2014**, *136*, 13925-13931; bS. Zhao, Y. Wang, J. Dong, C.-T. He, H. Yin, P. An, K. Zhao, X. Zhang, C. Gao, L. Zhang, J. Lv, J. Wang, J. Zhang, A. M. Khattak, N. A. Khan, Z. Wei, J. Zhang, S. Liu, H. Zhao, Z. Tang, *Nature Energy* **2016**, *1*, 16184.
- [16] J. Xuan, Z. Wang, Y. Chen, D. Liang, L. Cheng, X. Yang, Z. Liu, R. Ma, T. Sasaki, F. Geng, *Angewandte Chemie* **2016**, *128*, 14789- 14794.

## FULL PAPER

we report a fast strategy to fabricate the hierarchical cobalt borates/Ti C T <sup>x</sup> MXene (Co - Bi/Ti C T <sup>x</sup>) through fast chemical reactions at room temperature. The novel interesting hierarchical MXene based hybrid shows extraordinary OER catalytic activity, with the overpotential of 250 mV to deliver the current density of 10 mA cm – <sup>2</sup> and a Tafel slope of about 53 mV dec – 1 .

Jiapeng Liu, Tao Chen, Peng Juan, Wenchao Peng, Yang Li, Fengbao Zhang, and Xiaobin Fan\*

**Hierarchical Cobalt Borate/MXenes Hybrid with Extraordinary Electrocatalytic Performance in Oxygen Evolution Reaction**