---
source: Liu 等 - 2022 - Construction of Catalytic Covalent Organic Frameworks with Redox‐Active Sites for the Oxygen Reducti.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 27.205s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:21:06.418914Z
---

## *Zuschriften*

### *COF Electrocatalysts*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022,** *61,* e202213522 Internationale Ausgabe: [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202213522](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202213522) Deutsche Ausgabe: [doi.org/10.1002/ange.202213522](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202213522)

# **Construction of Catalytic Covalent Organic Frameworks with Redox-Active Sites for the Oxygen Reduction and the Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Minghao Liu+ , Sijia Liu+ , Cheng-Xing Cui+ , Qiyang Miao, Yue He,\* Xuewen Li, [Qing](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-9066-9837) Xu,\* and Gaofeng Zeng\**

**Abstract:** Construction of catalytic covalent organic frameworks (COFs) for oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is significant but rarely demonstrated. In this work, we have first constructed bifunctional COFs towards ORR and OER by integrating diarylamine derivatives into the Coporphyrin based frameworks. Both of the new COFs (CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF) have good ordered structures, high surface areas, and robust chemical stability. The diarylamine units, as a typical electron donor and redox-active cores, promote intramolecular electron transport along the frameworks and improve the electrochemically active surface areas. Thus, the COFs showed higher catalytic activities than that of the COF without redox-active units. CoTAPP-PATA-COF had a halfwave potential of 0.80 V towards ORR, and delieved an overpotential of 420 mV for OER in 0.1 M KOH. The theoretical calculation revealed introducing diarylamine unites improved the oxygen electrocatalysis.

*O*xygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) play vital roles in fuel cells, recharging metal-air batteries, and water splitting.[1] To achieve the active catalysts for ORR and OER, noble metal electrocatalysts such as Pt/C, IrO2, and RuO2 have been widely employed.[2] However, these catalysts suffered from the limitations including high cost, weak stability, and single function. To overcome the disadvantages of noble metal catalysts, non-precious metal atoms or nanoparticles with heteroatom-doped carbons as scaffold have been fully developed.[3] The activities, selectivities, and stabilities for these catalysts depended on the scale of active sites, heteroatom contents, doping locations and porous architectures.[4] However, it is difficult to preciously control these elements simultaneously, which hinders us from deeply exploring the relationship between the catalysts' properties and catalytic performances.

Covalent organic frameworks (COFs), constructed by modular building blocks through covalent bonds, are a class of ordered and porous polymers.[5] Their large structural diversity (including topologies, pores and skeletons) and precision of functionalization make COFs shown various applications in such as gas/molecular separation and capture, catalysis, chemical sensor, and photocatalysis.[6] Given that the fast ionic transport channels and well-defined electroactive sites, COFs have been used in electrochemical energy and conversion systems, including ionic conduction, supercapacitors, lithium-ion batteries and electrocatalysis.[7] In 2015, the COFs with anchoring Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> through bipyridine units had first been used in catalyzing OER.[8] And the hybrids of Co-porphyrin-based COF and reduced graphene oxide was first explored to catalyze ORR in 2017.[9] Afterwards, many COFs based catalysts have been developed for ORR or OER.[10] However, the limited electron transport ability along the frameworks and the low electrochemically active surface areas hindered their electroactivities. And developing active sites in COFs towards ORR and OER is still under explored.

The diarylamine units, as typical electron donors and redox-active cores, have been widely employed in electrochemical capacitors and batteries.[11] With introducing diarylamine into the frameworks, the resulting COFs have been used in lithium-ion batteries, and carbon dioxide reduction.[11] In this work, we have first constructed bifunctional COFs for ORR and OER by integrating diarylamine

[\*] M. Liu,<sup>+</sup> S. Liu,<sup>+</sup> Q. Miao, Prof. X. Li, Prof. Q. Xu, Prof. G. Zeng CAS Key Laboratory of Low-Carbon Conversion Science and Engineering, Shanghai Advanced Research Institute (SARI), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) Shanghai 201210 (P. R. China)

E-mail: xuqing@sari.ac.cn zenggf@sari.ac.cn

M. Liu,<sup>+</sup> Prof. X. Li, Prof. Q. Xu, Prof. G. Zeng School of Chemical Engineering, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences

19A Yuquan Road, Beijing 100049 (P. R. China)

Dr. C.-X. Cui<sup>+</sup>

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Institute of Science and Technology Xinxiang 453003 (P. R. China)

Prof. Y. He

Department of Oral and Maxillofacial-Head and Neck Oncology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai 200011 (P. R. China)

E-mail: hey1683@sh9hospital.org.cn

<sup>+</sup>] These authors contributed equally to this work.

derivatives into the Co-porphyrin based frameworks. The diarylamine unites not only enable to promote the electron transport along the frameworks, but also improve the electrochemical active surface areas in the catalytic process.

The CoTAPP-PATA-COF was synthesized from 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-aminophenyl)porphinato]-cobalt (TAPP(Co)) and 4,4',4'',4'''-(1,4 phenylenebis(azanetriyl))tetrabenzaldehyde (PATA) in a mixed solvents of o-dichlorobenzene/n-butanol, with HOAc (6 M) as catalyst, at 120 °C for 72 hours, with a yield of 84.7%. And the CoTAPP-BDTA-COF was synthesized by using 4,4',4'',4'''-([1,1'-biphenyl]-4,4'-diylbis(azanetriyl)) tetrabenzaldehyde (BDTA) as the substituted linker in the COF (Figure 1A), with a corresponding yield of 88.6%.

The structure of as-synthesized COFs was first investigated by Fourier transform infrared (FT IR) spectroscopy. The FT IR spectra showed the announced peaks at 1625 cm <sup>1</sup> and 1622 cm <sup>1</sup> , attributed to the C=N linkages of CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure S1, red curve) and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF (Figure S1, blue curve). The peaks at 713 and 726 cm <sup>1</sup> were from the Co N bonds in the COFs. In addition, the solid 13C cross-polarization/magic-angle spinning solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (CP/MAS ssNMR) was conducted to further study the chemical nature of CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF. It showed the peaks at 148 ppm were from the carbon in the C=N bond (Figure S2).

The crystallinities of as-obtained COFs were characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) measurements. As shown in PXRD patterns for CoTAPP-PATA-COF, the most intensity peak at 5.38 ° was clearly observed, which was from (011) facet. And many other obvious peaks at 8.05, 10.98, 12.12, and 20.87 ° were also identified, which were assigned to (020), (022), (031) and (001) facets, respectively (Figure 1B and 1D). Pawley refinements were applied to investigate the theoretical structures with the selfconsistent charge density functional tight binding (DFTB) method. The experimental results are in accordance with simulated results with *R*wp of 3.75% and *R*<sup>p</sup> of 3.02%, respectively. Both of eclipsed (AA) (Figure 1B) and staggered (AB) stacking (Figure S3) structures were simulated for the COFs, and the simulated PXRD patterns of the eclipsed structures have a much better agreement with the experimental results (Figure 1D). CoTAPP-PATA-COF adopts an eclipsed stacking in a *PM* space group with refined cell parameters of *a*=3.76 Å, *b*=23.80 Å, *c*= 25.29 Å, *α*=*β*=*γ*=90° (Tables S1–S2). With using BDTA to replace the PATA as the linker, the peak from (011) facet left-shifted to 5.02°. And the peaks at 10.66 and 21.65° were due to (022) and (001) facets, respectively (Figure 1C and 1E). From the Pawley-refined patterns for CoTAPP-BDTA-COF, the simulated structures (Figure S4) showed AA stacking, agreed well with the experimental results with *R*wp of 2.30% and *R*<sup>p</sup> of 1.73%. Furthermore, the optimized cell parameters for CoTAPP-BDTA-COF was close to that of CoTAPP-PATA-COF, with *a* =30.89 Å, *b*=23.24 Å, *c*= 3.76 Å, *α*=*β*=*γ*=90° (Tables S3–S4).

The porous structures of COFs were studied by N2 physisorption measurements at 77 K. CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF displayed similar IV-types (Figure 2A and 2B). CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF had Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface

*Figure 1.* A) Synthesis of catalytic COFs (CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF) from CoTAPP, PATA and BDTA, respectively. B) Theoretically modelled eclipsed-AA stacking model (C-grey, N-blue, H-white, Co-red) for CoTAPP-PATA-COF. C) Theoretically modelled eclipsed-AA stacking model (C-grey, N-blue, H-white, Co-red) for CoTAPP-BDTA-COF. PXRD profiles of D) CoTAPP-PATA-COF and E) CoTAPP-BDTA-COF of the experimentally observed (black), Pawley refined (red) and their difference (pink), simulated using the AA (blue) and staggered AB (green) stacking modes.

*Figure 2.* The nitrogen-sorption isotherms and pore size distribution curves for A) CoTAPP-PATA-COF and B) CoTAPP-BDTA-COF. The chemical stabilities for C) CoTAPP-PATA-COF and D) CoTAPP-BDTA-COF under different conditions. The high-resolution XPS spectra for E) N 1s and F) Co 2p of COFs. HR-TEM images of G) CoTAPP-PATA-COF and H) CoTAPP-BDTA-COF.

areas of 943.72 and 1047.82 m2 g <sup>1</sup> , with corresponding pore volumes of 0.75 and 0.99 cm<sup>3</sup> g <sup>1</sup> , respectively. The pore size distribution curves showed CoTAPP-PATA-COF and Co-TAPP-BDTA-COF had pore sizes of 1.1 and 1.2 nm, respectively.

The morphologies of prepared COFs were investigated by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The SEM images showed the rod shapes for CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure S5), which was further confirmed by the TEM images (Figure S6). The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) images showed the crystal domains were stacked with an interlayer π-π stacking, suggesting its good crystallinity (Figure 2G). As shown by SEM and TEM images, CoTAPP-BDTA-COF showed different morphology with aggregated spheres (Figures S5 and S7). The HR-TEM images also revealed its crystal domains (Figure 2H). The energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) mapping showed all the elements were uniformly distributed in the skeletons of COFs (Figures S8 and S9).

The chemical stability and thermal stability of COFs were investigated by treating COFs in HCl solution (1 M), NaOH solution (1 M) and boiling water for one week each. The mass retention for CoTAPP-PATA-COF were 98.5%, 99.1% and 99.5%, respectively. The PXRD patterns showed all the peaks for COFs were maintained, suggesting its good crystallinity (Figure 2C).

CoTAPP-BDTA-COF also had good chemical stability. The mass and crystallinity were well retained after treating under harsh conditions (Figure 2D). The thermal stability of COFs was investigated by the thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The TGA curves showed that both of COFs were thermostable before 400 °C under N2 (Figure S10).

The electron states of COFs play important roles in electrocatalysis. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results of the COFs showed the peaks of C, N, O and Co (Figure S11). And the weight contents of Co in CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 3.88 and 3.21 wt.%, respectively. The high-resolution of N 1s spectra showed the peaks from C N bond (pyrrolic nitrogen) from CoTAPP units, C=N bonds from imine-linkage, and C N bond from PATA or BDTA units, respectively (Figure 2C). The Co 2p spectra showed the Co elements were in divalent (Figure 2D). The weight contents of Co in CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 3.87% and 4.11%, as obtained by the inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) measurements.

The ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy (UV/Vis) absorption was adopted to invstigate the band gaps. Accordingly, the band gaps for CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 2.11 and 2.13 eV, respectively. The highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) was calculated by the Mott– Schottky method. The LUMO positions for CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 1.51 and 1.72 eV, respectively (Figure S12).

Thus, both of prepared COFs have good crystallinity, high surface areas, excellent chemical stability and outstanding electron-transport ability. We then investigated the catalytic behaviours towards ORR and OER based on the COFs. To gain more insight of the roles of diaryamine units in the catalytic process, we have synthesized Co-COF-366 as 15213757, 2022, 49, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202213522 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

a control. [12] Specifically, the PXRD patterns and simulated results of Co-COF-366 confirmed the crystral structure (Figure S13). In addition, the FT IR spectra showed the announced peaks at 1617 cm<sup>-1</sup> was attributed to the C=N linkages (Figure S1). Furthermore, the XPS N 1s spectra of Co-COF-366 showed the peaks from C-N bond (pyrrolic nitrogen) from CoTAPP units and C=N bonds from iminelinkage, respectively (Figure S14). The Co 2p spectra showed the Co elements were in divalent as the same of CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF.

The ORR behaviour was investigated in 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution. The commercial Pt/C (20%) was evaluated as a control. The cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were conducted in O2 or N2-saturated solution at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. There was an obvious peak at 0.67 V vs. Reversible Hydrogen Electrode (RHE) for CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure S15, red curve), while no peaks were identified under N2-saturated condition (Figure S15, black curve), indicating its activity towards ORR. And the peak for CoTAPP-BDTA-COF was at 0.66 V, close to that of CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure S15). Without the diaryamine units, the corresponding peak for Co-COF-366 was at 0.61 V, which was more negative than those of CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF, indicating its lower catalytic activity. We then used RDE measurements to explore the activity. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves showed the onset  $(E_0)$  and half-wave potentials  $(E_{1/2})$ for CoTAPP-PATA-COF were 0.926 and 0.801 V, with a limited current density  $(J_{lim})$  of 5.04 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 3A, red curve). CoTAPP-BDTA-COF had a similar ORR activity, and the corresponding  $E_0$ ,  $E_{1/2}$  and  $J_{lim}$  were 0.925, 0.803 V and 5.05 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The Co-COF-366 had more negative  $E_{1/2}$  of 0.693 V, with a lower  $J_{lim}$  of 2.55 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 3A, green curve). Although the activities for CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were inferior to those of Pt/C ( $E_0 = 0.92 \text{ V}$ ,  $E_{1/2} = 0.81 \text{ V}$  and  $J_{\text{lim}} = 5.56 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), the corresponding ORR catalytic parameters were better than other COF-based catalysts (Table S5).

The kinetic behaviours of catalysts towards ORR were investigated by Tafel slopes. The corresponding Tafel slopes for CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 55 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and 64 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, while Co-COF-366 had a larger Tafel slope of 111 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3B). In addition, the LSV curves were obtained at scan rates from 400 to 1600 rpm (Figure S16). The corresponding kinetic current density for CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 7.65 and 7.93 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a potential of 0.5 V, which were higher than that of Pt/C (Figure S17).

The rotating ring-disk electrode (RRDE) experiments were performed on the catalysts to evaluate the selectivity. Both of CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF had good selectivities. The electron transfer numbers (n) for both of COFs were higher than 3.6 from 0.2 to 0.8 V (Figure 3C). And the corresponding  $H_2O_2$  yields less than 19.29%, suggesting their  $4e^-$  pathway towards ORR. Co-COF-366 had a lower selectivity with n values from 2.9 to 3.3, and higher  $H_2O_2$  yields of 34% (Figure 3C, green curves). Thus, introducing diaryamine units into the skel-

Figure 3. A) LSV curves, B) the corresponding Tafel slopes, and C) electron transfer number and  $\rm H_2O_2$  yield plots calculated from the RRDE measurements over CoTAPP-PATA-COF (red), CoTAPP-BDTA-COF (blue), Co-COF-366 (green) and Pt/C (black) in  $\rm O_2$ -saturated KOH (0.1 M) aqueous solution. D) LSV curves, E) the corresponding Tafel slopes, and F) the TOF values over CoTAPP-PATA-COF (red), CoTAPP-BDTA-COF (blue), Co-COF-366 (green) and RuO $_2$  (black) in oxygen-saturated KOH (0.1 M) aqueous solution. The CV curves for CoTAPP-PATA-COF (G) and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF (H). I) The  $\rm C_{dl}$  values for CoTAPP-PATA-COF (red) and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF (blue).

etons enables to improve the catalytic activity and selectivity.

The OER activities of prepared COFs were evaluated by using a typical three-electrode system in KOH (0.1 M) aqueous solutions, respectively. The LSV curves showed the overpotentials (n<sub>10</sub>) at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for CoTAPP-PATA-COF was 420 mV (Figure 3D, red curve), and the corresponding Tafel slope was 56 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, while the  $\eta_{10}$  and Tafel slope for RuO<sub>2</sub> were 470 mV and 92 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Figure 3D and 3E, black curves). And the CoTAPP-BDTA-COF also showed good catalytic activity, with the  $\eta_{10}$  of 470 mV and a corresponding Tafel slope of 57 mV dec $^{-1}$ , whereas the  $\eta_{10}$  for Co-COF-366 was 484 mV, with Tafel slopes of 95 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3D and 3E, green curves). The turnover frequencies (TOF) were also obtained for the prepared COFs (Figure 3F). Accordingly, CoTAPP-PATA-COF achieved the TOF values of 0.19 s<sup>-1</sup> at an overpotential of 400 mV, which were 2 and 50 times higher than that of CoTAPP-BDTA-COF (0.09 s<sup>-1</sup>) and Co-COF-366 ( $0.0038 \text{ s}^{-1}$ ).

The OER performance for the catalysts are improved in 1.0 M KOH aqueous solution. The corresponding  $\eta_{20}$  were 380 and 370 mV for CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF, with corresponding Tafel slopes of 36 and 54 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The overpotentials together with the Tafel slopes were superior to other COF-based catalyst for OER (Table S5). The TOFs for CoTAPP-PATA-COF

and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 0.123 and 0.113 s <sup>1</sup> at an overpotential of 320 mV (Figure S18).

To eliminate the effects caused by different crystallinity and porosity in catalytic performance, we have synthesized another COF (CoTAPP-Py-COF). The PXRD patterns and simulated results confirmed the CoTAPP-Py-COF had similar crystral structures as that of CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure S19). In addition, the CoTAPP-Py-COF had the same pore size and pore volumes to those of CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure S20). The FT IR and XPS spectra confirmed its chemical structure (Figure S20). This COF have shown lower ORR activity with *E*1/2 of 0.68 V, and also displayed weaker OER activity with η<sup>10</sup> of 520 mV (Figure S21).

The long-term stability for CoTAPP-PATA-COF towards ORR showed the current density was 91.7% after 18 hours (Figure S22). The activity towards OER can be well retained at a current density of 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> after 20 hours, indicating its excellent long-term stability (Figure S23). To confirm the structure stability upon reaction, the CoTAPP-PATA-COF was measured by the PXRD, FT IR and XPS after the chronoamperometry measurement. The PXRD patterns showed no new peaks after long-term stability measurement (Figure S24A). And the FT IR spectra proved that all the peaks from the catalysts were well retained (Figure S24B). Additionally, the Co 2p spectra showed the Co element kept the same valence state (Co2<sup>+</sup>) before and after the long-term chronoamperometry test (Figure S24C). Thus, the structure of the catalyst was well retained.

To better understand the excellent catalytic behaviours for COFs, the electrochemically active surface areas (EC-SAs) were acquired by the electrochemical double layer capacitances (*C*dl) (Figure 3G and 3H). The *C*dl for Co-TAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF were 10.64 and 9.37 mFcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 3I), respectively, which were higher than the reported COFs (Co-TTCOF (6.0 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), TPPDA-CoPor-COF, (2.61 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ) and Ni-SAC@COF (6.5 mFcm <sup>2</sup> )) (Table S7), demonstrating more exposed active sites in ORR and OER process.[13]

To further investigate the redox-active mechanism, the CoTAPP-PATA-COF was measured by XPS. Specifically, the high-resolution of N 1s spectra showed the peaks of C N bonds from CoTAPP units, C=N bonds from iminelinkage, and C N bonds from PATA units, respectively, before the electrochemical test (Figure S25A). After the OER measurements, a new peak emerged at 402.2 eV from the oxidation of C N redox centers was observed, indicating the diarylamine derivatives units can provide redox activity in the process of the OER (Figure S25B).

The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was adopted to investigate the electronic transport behaviours of prepared COFs. The Nyquist plots showed that CoTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-BDTA-COF displayed lower charge transfer resistance than Co-COF-366, indicating their faster electron transfer ability. (Figure S26).

In addition, the COFs with different metal ions (Ni-TAPP-PATA-COF and FeTAPP-PATA-COF) were also synthesized to elucidate the roles of metal centers in oxygen electrocatalysis (Figure S27). With loading Ni2<sup>+</sup> or Fe2<sup>+</sup> in the frameworks, both activities for ORR and OER exhibited obvious declines. The *E*1/2 and for NiTAPP-PATA-COF and FeTAPP-PATA-COF were 0.67 and 0.61 V, respectively. Additionally, the NiTAPP-PATA-COF and FeTAPP-PATA-COF had η<sup>10</sup> of 670 and 550 mV, respectively (Figure S28). Thus, the Co centers are more active than Ni and Fe centers towards ORR and OER.

The reaction mechanism of oxygen electrocatalysis for CoTAPP-PATA-COF (Figure 4A) and Co-COF-366 was further elucidated by the calculated free energy pathway (Figure S29). The density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that the rate-determining steps (RDS) for COFs in ORR were the formation of \*O from OOH\* (Figure 4B). And the free energy change (Δ*G*) for CoTAPP-PATA-COF was 1.047 eV, smaller than that of Co-COF-366 (1.134 eV), indicating its high catalytic activity towards ORR. In addition, the DFT calculations exhibited RDS for OER were the formation of \*O from \*OH. And the Δ*G* for CoTAPP-PATA-COF was 0.255 eV, smaller than that of Co-COF-366 ( 0.308 eV), confirming its high catalytic activity towards OER. Thus, the CoTAPP-PATA-COF displayed higher activities in ORR and OER.

To better understand the different activity with different catalytic centers, the reaction mechanism of oxygen electrocatalysis for NiTAPP-PATA-COF and FeTAPP-PATA-COF were further elucidated by the calculated free energy

*Figure 4.* A) The catalytic ORR and OER mechanism cycles of the CoTAPP-PATA-COF model (C-grey, N-blue, H-white, O-red, Co-yellow). B) The free energy profles for ORR and OER process.

pathway (Figure S30). The DFT calculations revealed that the formation of \*OH from OH is an exergonic process by 5.377 eV for FeTAPP-PATA-COF, which is larger than those of NiTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-PATA-COF. The poor activity of FeTAPP-PATA-COF may originate from the formation of \*OOH to O2, which is a highly endergonic process by 5.310 eV for FeTAPP-PATA-COF. The whole process from OH to O2 is endergonic for FeTAPP-PATA-COF and exergonic for NiTAPP-PATA-COF and CoTAPP-PATA-COF. Consequently, oxygen electrocatalysis for FeTAPP-PATA-COF is of low activity herein. The rate-determining steps (RDS) for CoTAPP-PATA-COF in ORR was the formation of \*O from \*OH (Figure S30, red), while NiTAPP-PATA-COF in ORR was the formation of \*O from OOH\* (Figure S30, orange). The Δ*G* for CoTAPP-PATA-COF was 0.255 eV, which is lower than that of NiTAPP-PATA-COF by 3.974 eV. Thus, the CoTAPP-PATA-COF displayed higher activities in ORR and OER.

In summary, we have constructed bifunctional catalysts by combining redox-active units with catalytic centers in the frameworks. The redox-active units not only promote the electron transport along the frameworks, but also improve the active surface areas. By tuning the catalytic centers, the CoTAPP-PATA-COF catalyze the ORR and OER with high activity and stability. This work provides a new insight into developing catalytic COFs in energy storage and conversion systems.

#### *Acknowledgements*

Q. Xu acknowledges the financial support from the Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai (20ZR1464000). C. Cui acknowledges the financial support from the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2021M692908). G. Zeng acknowledge the supports from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21878322, 22075309), the Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (19ZR1479200, 22ZR1470100).

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Bifunctional Catalysts **·** Covalent Organic Frameworks **·** Oxygen Evolution Reaction **·** Oxygen Reduction Reaction **·** Redox-Active Sites

[1] a) Y. Tong, P. Chen, T. Zhou, K. Xu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [7121–7125;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702430) *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201702430) Chem.*

- **2017**, *129*, [7227–7231](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201702430); b) Q. Xu, Y. Tang, X. Zhang, Y. Oshima, Q. Chen, D. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, [1706330](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201706330); c) Z. Zeng, L. Y. Gan, H. Bin Yang, X. Su, J. Gao, W. Liu, H. Matsumoto, J. Gong, J. Zhang, W. Cai, Z. Zhang, Y. Yan, B. Liu, P. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4088; d) Y.-S. Wei, L. Sun, M. Wang, J. Hong, L. Zou, H. Liu, Y. Wang, M. Zhang, Z. Liu, Y. Li, S. Horike, K. Suenaga, Q. Xu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202007221) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [16013–16022](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202007221); *Angew. Chem.* **2020**, *132*, [16147–16156;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202007221) e) Q. Li, A. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Zhao, X. Wang, X. Jin, B. Xiong, C. Zhi, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3699; f) Q. Wang, Q. Feng, Y. Lei, S. Tang, L. Xu, Y. Xiong, G. Fang, Y. Wang, P. Yang, J. Liu, W. Liu, X. Xiong, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3689.
- [2] a) G. Wang, M. Yu, X. Feng, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00187B) Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 2388– [2443](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00187B); b) Y. Pan, S. Liu, K. Sun, X. Chen, B. Wang, K. Wu, X. Cao, W.-C. Cheong, R. Shen, A. Han, Z. Chen, L. Zheng, J. Luo, Y. Lin, Y. Liu, D. Wang, Q. Peng, Q. Zhang, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [8614–8618;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201804349) *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201804349) Chem.* **2018**, *130*, [8750–8754;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201804349) c) G. Wang, B. Kohn, U. Scheler, F. Wang, S. Oswald, M. Löffler, D. Tan, P. Zhang, J. Zhang, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, [1905681](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201905681).
- [3] a) K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang, H. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3783; b) J. Chang, G. Wang, M. Wang, Q. Wang, B. Li, H. Zhou, Y. Zhu, W. Zhang, M. Omer, N. Orlovskaya, Q. Ma, M. Gu, Z. Feng, G. Wang, Y. Yang, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, [1144–1153](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00940-4); c) J. Jiao, R. Lin, S. Liu, W.-C. Cheong, C. Zhang, Z. Chen, Y. Pan, J. Tang, K. Wu, S.-F. Hung, H. M. Chen, L. Zheng, Q. Lu, X. Yang, B. Xu, H. Xiao, J. Li, D. Wang, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Nat. Chem.* **2019**, *11*, [222–228](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41557-018-0201-x); d) S. Vijay, W. Ju, S. Brückner, S.-C. Tsang, P. Strasser, K. Chan, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00705-y)* **2021**, *4*, 1024– [1031](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00705-y); e) T. Zheng, C. Liu, C. Guo, M. Zhang, X. Li, Q. Jiang, W. Xue, H. Li, A. Li, C.-W. Pao, J. Xiao, C. Xia, J. Zeng, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-021-00974-5) [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-021-00974-5)* **2021**, *16*, 1386–1393.
- [4] a) K. Shah, R. Dai, M. Mateen, Z. Hassan, Z. Zhuang, C. Liu, M. Israr, W.-C. Cheong, B. Hu, R. Tu, C. Zhang, X. Chen, Q. Peng, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202114951; *Angew. Chem.* **2022**, *134*, e202114951; b) T. Sun, S. Mitchell, J. Li, P. Lyu, X. Wu, J. Pérez-Ramírez, J. Lu, *[Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202003075) Mater.* **2021**, *33*, [2003075;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202003075) c) Z. Jin, P. Li, Y. Meng, Z. Fang, D. Xiao, G. Yu, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, [615–622](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00650-w); d) Y. Wang, H. Su, Y. He, L. Li, S. Zhu, H. Shen, P. Xie, X. Fu, G. Zhou, C. Feng, D. Zhao, F. Xiao, X. Zhu, Y. Zeng, M. Shao, S. Chen, G. Wu, J. Zeng, C. Wang, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, [12217–12314](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00594).
- [5] a) P. Côté Adrien, I. Benin Annabelle, W. Ockwig Nathan, M. O'Keeffe, J. Matzger Adam, M. Yaghi Omar, *Science* **2005**, *310*, 1166–1170; b) E. Jin, M. Asada, Q. Xu, S. Dalapati, A. Addicoat Matthew, A. Brady Michael, H. Xu, T. Nakamura, T. Heine, Q. Chen, D. Jiang, *Science* **2017**, *357*, [673–676;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aan0202) c) T. Ma, A. Kapustin Eugene, X. Yin Shawn, L. Liang, Z. Zhou, J. Niu, L.-H. Li, Y. Wang, J. Su, J. Li, X. Wang, D. Wang Wei, W. Wang, J. Sun, M. Yaghi Omar, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aat7679)* **2018**, *361*, 48–52; d) T. Zhou, L. Wang, X. Huang, J. Unruangsri, H. Zhang, R. Wang, Q. Song, Q. Yang, W. Li, C. Wang, K. Takahashi, H. Xu, J. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3934; e) Y. Li, W. Chen, G. Xing, D. Jiang, L. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, [2852–2868;](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00199F) f) W. Zhang, L. Chen, S. Dai, C. Zhao, C. Ma, L. Wei, M. Zhu, S. Y. Chong, H. Yang, L. Liu, Y. Bai, M. Yu, Y. Xu, X.-W. Zhu, Q. Zhu, S. An, R. S. Sprick, M. A. Little, X. Wu, S. Jiang, Y. Wu, Y.-B. Zhang, H. Tian, W.-H. Zhu, A. I. Cooper, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-04443-4)* **2022**, *604*, [72–79](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-04443-4).
- [6] a) A. Halder, M. Ghosh, M. A. Khayum, S. Bera, M. Addicoat, H. S. Sasmal, S. Karak, S. Kurungot, R. Banerjee, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b06460) Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, [10941–10945](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b06460); b) T. Sick, A. G. Hufnagel, J. Kampmann, I. Kondofersky, M. Calik, J. M. Rotter, A. Evans, M. Döblinger, S. Herbert, K. Peters, D. Böhm, P. Knochel, D. D. Medina, D. Fattakhova-Rohlfing, T. Bein, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06081) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, [2085–2092](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b06081); c) Y. Song, Q. Sun, B.

- - Aguila, S. Ma, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6*, [1801410;](https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.201801410) d) J. Xu, Y. He, S. Bi, M. Wang, P. Yang, D. Wu, J. Wang, F. Zhang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201905713) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [12065–12069](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201905713); *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201905713) Chem.* **2019**, *131*, [12193–12197;](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201905713) e) Q. Xu, S. Tao, Q. Jiang, D. Jiang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201915234) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [4557–4563;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201915234) *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201915234) Chem.* **2020**, *132*, [4587–4593.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201915234)
- [7] a) J. D. Yi, D. H. Si, R. Xie, Q. Yin, M. D. Zhang, Q. Wu, G. L. Chai, Y. B. Huang, R. Cao, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202104564) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [17108–17114;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202104564) *Angew. Chem.* **2021**, *133*, [17245–17251](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202104564); b) B. Han, X. Ding, B. Yu, H. Wu, W. Zhou, W. Liu, C. Wei, B. Chen, D. Qi, H. Wang, K. Wang, Y. Chen, B. Chen, J. Jiang, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02145) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [7104–7113;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02145) c) X. Guan, H. Li, Y. Ma, M. Xue, Q. Fang, Y. Yan, V. Valtchev, S. Qiu, *Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41557-019-0238-5)* **2019**, *11*, [587–594](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41557-019-0238-5); d) H. Dong, M. Lu, Y. Wang, H.-L. Tang, D. Wu, X. Sun, F.-M. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *303*, [120897;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120897) e) C. Yang, K. Jiang, Q. Zheng, X. Li, H. Mao, W. Zhong, C. Chen, B. Sun, H. Zheng, X. Zhuang, J. A. Reimer, Y. Liu, J. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [17701–17707;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c08265) f) S.-W. Ke, Y. Wang, J. Su, K. Liao, S. Lv, X. Song, T. Ma, S. Yuan, Z. Jin, J.-L. Zuo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [8267–8277.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c01996)
- [8] H. B. Aiyappa, J. Thote, D. B. Shinde, R. Banerjee, S. Kurungot, *Chem. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, [4375–4379](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b01370).
- [9] Q. Zuo, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *Dalton Trans.* **2017**, *46*, [9344–9348.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7DT01694H)
- [10] a) Y. Zhu, P. Shao, L. Hu, C. Sun, J. Li, X. Feng, B. Wang, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02932) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [7897–7902](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02932); b) X. Zhao, P. Pachfule,

- S. Li, T. Langenhahn, M. Ye, C. Schlesiger, S. Praetz, J. Schmidt, A. Thomas, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [6623–6630;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b01226) c) R. Shi, L. Liu, Y. Lu, C. Wang, Y. Li, L. Li, Z. Yan, J. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 178.
- [11] a) L. Gong, B. Chen, Y. Gao, B. Yu, Y. Wang, B. Han, C. Lin, Y. Bian, D. Qi, J. Jiang, *Inorg. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI00336H) Front.* **2022**, *9*, 3217– [3223](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI00336H); b) L. Gong, X. Yang, Y. Gao, G. Yang, Z. Yu, X. Fu, Y. Wang, D. Qi, Y. Bian, K. Wang, J. Jiang, *J. Mater. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA03579K) A* **2022**, *10*, [16595–16601](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA03579K); c) S. Gu, R. Hao, J. Chen, X. Chen, K. Liu, I. Hussain, G. Liu, Z. Wang, Q. Gan, H. Guo, M. Li, K. Zhang, Z. Lu, *Mater. Chem. Front.* **2022**, *6*, [2545–2550.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QM00578F)
- [12] C. Liu, H. Li, F. Liu, J. Chen, Z. Yu, Z. Yuan, C. Wang, H. Zheng, G. Henkelman, L. Wei, Y. Chen, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c10636) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [21861–21871](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c10636).
- [13] a) Y.-h. Zhu, Y.-f. Cui, Z.-l. Xie, Z.-b. Zhuang, G. Huang, X. b. Zhang, *Nat. Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *6*, [505–517](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-022-00397-3); b) A. Dutta, A. M. Appel, W. J. Shaw, *Nat. Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *2*, [244–252](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-018-0032-8); c) J. Li, Y. Zhang, K. Kuruvinashetti, N. Kornienko, *Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-022-00379-5) Rev.* **2022**, *6*, [303–319](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41570-022-00379-5).

Manuscript received: September 14, 2022 Accepted manuscript online: October 14, 2022 Version of record online: November 10, 2022