---
source: Liu 等 - 2025 - Unraveling the Trade‐Off Between Oxygen Vacancy Concentration and Ordering of Perovskite Oxides for.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.592s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:26:51.575298Z
---

# Unraveling the Trade-Off Between Oxygen Vacancy Concentration and Ordering of Perovskite Oxides for Efficient Lattice Oxygen Evolution

Lin-Bo Liu, Yu-Feng Tang, Shuo Liu, Mulin Yu, Yifei Sun, Xian-Zhu Fu, Jing-Li Luo, and Suhiao Liu\*

Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) over perovskite oxides, upon undergoing a lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism, is strongly oxygen vacancy-correlated as determined by the oxygen ion diffusivity. Despite substantial efforts having been devoted to tuning the oxygen vacancy concentration in perovskite oxides, the impact of the concomitant altering of oxygen vacancy ordering is often underestimated. In particular, the underlying mechanism of how the ordering and the concentration of oxygen vacancy affect the lattice OER, and how to well balance them still remain inadequately understood. Herein, a series of  $Sr_{1-x}Ca_xCo_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_{3-\delta}$  with gradually increased oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering are synthesized. Theoretical calculations indicated that a higher oxygen vacancy concentration promoted the lattice oxygen migration, whereas a higher oxygen vacancy ordering impeded it. Particularly,  $Sr_{0.5}Ca_{0.5}Co_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_{3-8}$  with a relatively higher oxygen vacancy concentration and a lower ordering displayed the maximum oxygen diffusion rate and the optimal OER activity, affording a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a quite low overpotential of 310.2 mV, together with a small Tafel slope of 55.87 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. This study sheds light on the critical influence of oxygen vacancy configuration on the lattice OER, and paves a compromised avenue to screen and design advanced electrocatalysts for various electrochemical devices.

1. Introduction

The overreliance on fossil fuels remains virtually unchanged due to a sharply growing energy demand in modern society, which causes climate crises, and threatens ecosystems and human health through acute environmental issues, highlighting the imperativeness of harvesting clean energy in a sustainable manner.  $^{[1]}$  Electrochemical  $H_2O$  splitting, when powered by

renewable energy sources, offers a promising and appealing approach to obtaining green H2 for further clean utilization.<sup>[2]</sup> Typically, H<sub>2</sub>O splitting involves two half reactions, i.e., O2 evolution reaction (OER,  $4OH^- \rightarrow 2H_2O$ + O<sub>2</sub> + 4e<sup>-</sup>) at anode and H<sub>2</sub> evolution reaction (HER,  $2H_2O \rightarrow H_2 + 4OH^- +$ 4e<sup>-</sup>) at cathode.<sup>[3]</sup> Nevertheless, OER on most electrocatalysts usually suffers from an intrinsically slow kinetics due to a complicated four-electron transfer process which requires a high overpotential  $(\eta)$  to achieve a desirable current density (i).[4] Therefore, it is imperative to develop highly efficient and stable materials toward OER. Despite noble metal oxides (e.g., IrO2 and RuO2) having shown outstanding OER performance, the fast structural decay, high cost, and scarcity greatly limit their further industrial-scale application.<sup>[5]</sup>

To this end, substantial efforts have been devoted to developing highperformance yet cost-effective alternatives with varying degrees of success,

including but not limited to transition metal oxides, [6] hydroxides, [7] sulfides, [8] phosphides, [9] carbon-based materials and various composites. [10] Of particular note, perovskite oxides have emerged as promising candidates to promote OER due to their intrinsically high electroactivity, large reserve, and cost-effectiveness. [11] Currently, the widely recognized mechanism toward OER on most perovskite oxides is the adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM), where the B-site metal centers served as

L.-B. Liu, Y.-F. Tang, S. Liu, M. Yu, S. Liu
School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering
Central South University
Changsha, Hunan 410083, China
E-mail: subiao@csu.edu.cn
Y. Sun
College of Energy
Xiamen University

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202402967

DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202402967

Xiamen, Fujian 36 1005, China

X.-Z. Fu, J.-L. Luo
College of Materials Science and Engineering
Shenzhen University
Shenzhen, Guangdong 518000, China
J.-L. Luo
Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering
University of Alberta
Edmonton, Alberta T6G 1H9, Canada

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

the active sites to facilitate the evolution of the adsorbed oxygen intermediates (i.e., HO\*, O\*, HOO\*, and OO\*) via a sequence of concerted electron-proton transfer process.[3a,11a,12] According to the Sabatier principle, [13] an optimal OER activity requires that the transition metal cations bind the adsorbed oxygen intermediates neither too strongly nor too weakly. This thus opens up the exploration of electronic structure parameters capable of acting as descriptors to screen and design advanced electrocatalysts.[14] Representatively, a universal descriptor of e<sub>g</sub> orbital filling of B-site transition metals has been established to reflect the OER activity by examining a series of perovskite oxides, and it is found that  $Ba_{0.5}Sr_{0.5}Co_{0.8}Fe_{0.2}O_{3-\delta}$  with an  $e_g$  orbital filling of 1.2 exhibits the best OER performance, [5b] as further verified by other studies (e.g., LaMn<sub>0.3</sub>Co<sub>0.7</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, [15]  $SrNb_{0.1}Co_{0.7}Fe_{0.2}O_{3-\delta}$ , [16]  $Ca_{0.9}Yb_{0.1}MnO_3$ , [17] and  $PrBa_{0.5}Sr_{0.5}Co_{1.5}Fe_{0.5}O_{5+\delta}$  [18]).

In recent years, the conventional AEM has been challenged by the emerging lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism (LOM), which involves the direct participation of lattice oxygen during OER, and bypasses the linear scaling relationship of HOO\* and HO\* intermediates induced by the conventional AEM.[19] Therefore, the descriptor of eg orbital filling based on AEM cannot fully explain the observed differences in OER activity on various perovskite oxides.[20] For instance, Shao et al. discovered that despite having an e<sub>g</sub> orbital filling of 0.7, which significantly deviated from the optimal value of 1.2, the Sidoped  $SrCo_{0.95}Si_{0.05}O_{3-\delta}$  with rich surface oxygen vacancy still exhibited a comparably higher OER activity than the state-ofthe-art BSCF.[20b] In fact, introducing oxygen vacancy for perovskite oxides (e.g., Sr doped La<sub>1-x</sub>Sr<sub>x</sub>CoO<sub>3</sub>, [21] A-site deficient  $La_{1/3}Sr_{(2-3z)/3}Co_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_{3-\delta}$ , [22]  $Ir/CoO/SrCoO_{2.8}$  composites, [23] and  $La_{0.6}Sr_{0.4}Co_{0.8}Fe_{0.1}Mn_{0.1}O_{3-\delta}^{[24]}$ ) has been identified as a universal strategy to enhance OER activity with a LOM due to the accelerated oxygen ion diffusion and lattice oxygen refilling from the electrolyte. However, an excessive oxygen vacancy concentration in turn significantly deteriorates the OER activity, as evidenced by various perovskite oxides (e.g., PrBaCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5+5</sub>, [20a]  $PrBaCo_{2-x}Fe_xO_{5+\delta}^{[25]}$  and  $Sr_{2-x}Ca_xFe_2O_{6-\delta}^{[26]}$ ), which implies that other oxygen vacancy-related factors other than the concentration also strongly correlates with the OER activity. It is understandable that the smart tuning of oxygen vacancy concentration of perovskite oxides will inevitably rearrange the oxygen vacancy ordering, but it is normally ignored in most of previous studies.<sup>[27]</sup> For example, Miao et al. found that the oxygen vacancy concentration in  $PrBaCo_2O_{5+\delta}$  is not the higher the better, since a higher oxygen vacancy concentration in PrBaCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5.5</sub> reduced the e<sub>a</sub> filling, which increased the electrical resistivity and weakened the Co-O bond covalency, thus exhibiting a lower OER activity.<sup>[27a]</sup> Similarly, Fabbri et al. mentioned that the OER activity of the PrBaCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5+δ</sub> should increase with the oxygen vacancy concentration, but a visible drop for the sample with a  $\delta$  of 0.48 was observed.[20a] It was thus inferred that the local arrangement of oxygen vacancy other than the concentration might also influence the lattice OER performance, but they only proposed it without further investigation. These findings thus highlight that except for the oxygen vacancy concentration, the orderly aligned oxygen vacancy in perovskite oxides might also crucially affect OER. More importantly, the underestimation of it potentially results in the fundamental misunderstanding and conclusion conflict on the effects of oxygen vacancy for OER. Therefore, elaborating clearly the underlying relationship between oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering is of prime importance to reach an optimal balance capable of delivering the best OER performance.

Herein, perovskite oxides  $Sr_{1-x}Ca_xCo_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}O_{3-\delta}$  (x = 0, 0.5, and 1, denoted as SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF, respectively) with increasing oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering were synthesized by incorporating Ca to gradually decrease the average ionic radius of A-site cation. The pH-dependent OER kinetics, coupled with the chemical probe studies and the surface amorphization observations, collectivity suggested that all the perovskite oxides promoted OER via a LOM. In addition, the theoretical calculations and the oxygen intercalation measurements demonstrated that the CaSrCF possessed the lowest lattice oxygen migration barrier and the highest oxygen ion diffusion rate due to its relatively higher oxygen vacancy concentration and lower ordering, enabling the CaSrCF with the optimal OER activity. These evidences underscore the importance of compromising oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering for reaching a winwin situation toward efficient OER.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF were synthesized using a facile solgel method, [28] and their crystal structures were analyzed by Xray diffraction (XRD) and Rietveld refinement (Table S1, Supporting Information). As shown in **Figure 1**a–c, SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF were crystallized in the space groups of Pm-3m, Ibm2, and Pbcm, respectively, and the corresponding structure models were displayed in Figure 1d-f. The SrCF exhibited a typical cubic structure, where the transition metal coordinated with sixfold oxygen (Figure 1d), and oxygen vacancies were randomly distributed within this structure. Nevertheless, an ordered orthorhombic structure of CaSrCF composed of alternating octahedral (Co/FeO<sub>6</sub>) and tetrahedral (Co/FeO<sub>4</sub>) layers was formed after incorporating 50% Ca in the A-site of SrCF on account of a decrease in the average ionic radius of A-site cation, where the low oxygen coordination in the tetrahedral layer resulted in the formation of oxygen vacancies within this structure (Figure 1e). Upon continuously substituting Sr with Ca, the average ionic radius of A-site cation was further decreased and caused the formation of a highly ordered structure of brownmillerite CaCF. Different from CaSrCF, the Co/FeO<sub>4</sub> tetrahedron in CaCF exhibited an alternating orientation, leading to a distribution of oxygen vacancies only in every other layer with a high degree of ordering (Figure 1f), as also verified by previous studies on different perovskite oxides (e.g., SrCoO<sub>2.5</sub>, [29] and Ca<sub>2</sub>FeMnO<sub>5</sub>[30]).

Moreover, the low-resolution transmission electron microscopy (LRTEM) images in Figure S2 (Supporting Information) showed that SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF possessed a quite close particle size, and achieved a similar specific surface area typically  $\approx 0.58 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}^{-1}$ , as determined by the N<sub>2</sub> adsorption desorption plots (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The highangle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HADDF-STEM) and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) elemental mappings in Figure 2a-c further confirmed that all the constituent elements were homogeneously distributed in SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF, confirming a pure phase without any aggregates for all materials. With one step forward, the high-resolution HRTEM images of SrCF were displayed in Figure 2d,g in conjunction with the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a–c) XRD Rietveld refinement results, and d–f) crystal structures of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF.

**Figure 2.** HADDF images and corresponding EDX mappings of a) SrCF, b) CaSrCF, and c) CaCF; HRTEM images and corresponding FFT patterns of d, g) SrCF, e, h) CaSrCF, and f, i) CaCF.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Computational models of a) SrCF, b) CaSrCF, and c) CaCF without (top) and with (bottom) a single oxygen vacancy in perovskite oxide lattice. d) Calculated Evac values for the three samples. e) XPS survey scans; spectra of f) Co 2p, g) Fe 2p, and h) O 1s; i) EPR results, and j) relationship between oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering on SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF.

corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns along [023] and [011] directions, which typically represent a cubic perovskite structure. Moreover, the (200), (132), and (01 *̄* 1) planes possessed *̄* an interplanar distance of 0.28, 0.15, and 0.39 nm, respectively. Upon doping 50% Ca into CaSrCF, a decrease in the interplanar distance of (200) plane to 0.27 nm along [028] direction was *̄* observed in Figure [2e,](#page-2-0) since the ionic radius of Ca2<sup>+</sup> (0.99 Å) is much smaller than that of Sr<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (1.13 Å). Moreover, an interplanar distance of 0.77 nm for (101) plane and that of 0.39 nm for (020) plane along [101] direction (Figure *̄* [2h\)](#page-2-0) typically represented an orthorhombic structure of CaSrCF. This indicated that the cubic symmetry of the original SrCF was disrupted and a lattice distortion was introduced by Ca doping, which thus conceivably favored the formation of oxygen vacancy, similar to the Sr doped BaCo0.8Fe0.2O3. [\[31\]](#page-8-0) Furthermore, the CaCF in Figure [2f](#page-2-0) showed a similar orthorhombic structure to the CaSrCF, whereas the complete replacement of Sr with Ca resulted in a severe lattice distortion, potentially leading to the formation of a higher oxygen vacancy concentration. Additionally, the d spacings of 0.81 and 0.27 nm were obtained for (4*̄*1*̄*1) and (0 *̄* 11) along [ *̄* 122] direction *̄* (Figure [2i\)](#page-2-0), respectively, in consistent with the XRD results.

To verify that Ca doping in SrCF is potentially favorable for creating oxygen vacancy in the perovskite oxide lattice, the single Evac of the three samples based on the density functional theory + U (DFT + U) method was calculated based on the computational models in **Figure 3**a–c. Clearly, it was found in Figure 3d that an increase in Ca content resulted in a decrease in Evac (i.e., 0.50, 0.11, −0.48 eV for SrCF, CaSrCF, CaCF, respectively), convincingly indicating that the replacement of Sr with Ca could promote the creation of oxygen vacancy in perovskite oxide lattice.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves, b) *s* and mass activities, c) Tafel plots, d) the fitted circuit associated with the Nyquist plot; the inset shows the equivalent circuit, and e) calculated TOFs @ = 400 mV of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF; f) Chronopotentiometry measurement of CaSrCF at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

Following this, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) as a surface-sensitive technique was further employed to probe the electronic states of cations (Figure [3e\)](#page-3-0). The results revealed that an increase in the doping amount of Ca led to a decrease in the intensities of Co4<sup>+</sup> and Fe4<sup>+</sup> species, while those of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup>/2<sup>+</sup> species were significantly increased (Figure [3f,g\)](#page-3-0). Meanwhile, the valence states of Ca and Sr were remained as Ca<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Sr<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (Figure S4, Supporting Information), respectively, indicating that the incorporation of Ca into SrCF lowered the oxidation states of Co and Fe, and introduced a higher electronegativity, which in turn induced the formation of more oxygen vacancies to maintain the charge neutrality. This conjecture was further supported by the O 1s spectra of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF (Figure [3h\)](#page-3-0), where the subpeaks of O2<sup>−</sup> or O2<sup>−</sup>/O<sup>−</sup> species at 529.4 eV typically represented the oxygen vacancy,[\[32\]](#page-8-0) and followed an order of CaCF *>* CaSrCF *>* SrCF, providing solid evidence that Ca doping increased the oxygen vacancy concentration. Moreover, SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF all displayed a representative electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) signal at g = 2.003 (Figure [3i\)](#page-3-0), which was ascribed to the unpaired electrons trapped by the oxygen vacancy.[\[18b,33\]](#page-7-0) More importantly, the signal intensity also attenuated with a sequence of CaCF *>* CaSrCF *>* SrCF, consistent with the trend observed in the XPS results, further confirming an increase in the oxygen vacancy concentration in the Ca-doped samples. To determine the oxygen non-stoichiometric value (), the iodometric titration was conducted, and it was found that upon increasing the Ca-doping amount, the bulk Co and Fe oxidation states were decreased, in line with an increase in (Figure [3j;](#page-3-0) Table S2, Supporting Information). Specially, the CaCF exhibited the highest of 0.49 relative to the CaSrCF (0.41) and the pristine SrCF (0.27), well matching with the XPS and EPR findings. It is thus concluded that the "one stone killing two birds" strategy of A-site Ca-

doping tuned both the concentration and the ordering of oxygen vacancy.

To clarify the intrinsic effects of oxygen vacancy configuration on OER electrocatalysis, the catalytic activities of all the samples toward OER were assessed in an O2-saturated 1.0 m KOH solution using a rotating disk electrode at 1600 rpm, and all the reported potentials were calibrated to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). **Figure 4**a displays the geometric area-normalized linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF. Obviously, CaSrCF exhibited the optimal OER activity, which obtained a much lower of 310.2 mV to deliver a *j* of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> than SrCF (346.1 mV) and CaCF (320.6 mV), together with a much higher mass activity of 277.6 A g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 1.6 V than those of 90.34 A g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> on SrCF and 171.06 A g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> on CaCF (Figure 4b), indicative of the excellent OER activity. Moreover, CaSrCF exhibited a lower Tafel slope of 55.87 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> than the parallel SrCF (74.63 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and CaCF (66.75 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) in a wide range of *j* (Figure 4c), which outperformed most of the recently reported catalysts (Table S3, Supporting Information), implying a fast intrinsic OER kinetics. This was further confirmed by the electrochemical Nyquist plots in Figure 4d that CaSrCF possessed a relatively smaller charge transfer resistance (Rct) of 10.60 Ω than SrCF (25.29 Ω) and CaCF (16.06 Ω) (Table S4, Supporting Information), suggesting a more favorable charge transfer kinetics, in accordance with the Tafel analysis. Moreover, the cyclic voltammetry tests at different scan rates ranging from 20 to 100 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> were further performed to evaluate the effective electrochemical surface areas (ECSAs, Figure S5a–c, Supporting Information). The associated double layer capacitance (Cdl) and ECSA values of SrCF (2.21 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, 10.84 cm2), CaSrCF (2.07 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, 10.15 cm2) and CaCF (2.65 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, 13.00 cm2) were depicted in Figures S5d and S6 (Supporting Information), respectively. It is worth noting that CaSrCF showed a relatively smaller

Figure 5. a) pH-dependent LSV curves, b) plots of log *j* versus pH at 1.55 V, and c) LSV curves of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF; d) Tafel plots of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M TMAOH, respectively; e) HETEM images of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF post OER.

ECSA than SrCF and CaCF, implying that the higher OER activity of CaSrCF probably mainly benefited from the superior intrinsic activity of OER reactive sites. To further validate it, the intrinsic activities of the active sites in different samples were evaluated by calculating the turnover frequency (TOF), as shown in Figure 4e. Apparently, CaSrCF delivered a TOF value of 0.22 s<sup>-1</sup> at a  $\eta$  of 400 mV, much larger than SrCF (0.09 s<sup>-1</sup>) and CaCF (0.11 s<sup>-1</sup>). As a result, the intrinsic OER activity of CaSrCF, as indicated by the ECSA-normalized LSV curves (Figures S7, Supporting Information), was significantly higher than those of SrCF and CaCF. In addition, CaSrCF exhibited outstanding long-term stability with a negligible increase in  $\eta$  at a consistent j of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for over 100 h, superior to SrCF and CaCF (Figures 4f; Figure S8, Supporting Information).

In fact, OER on oxygen-deficient perovskite oxides have reported to occasionally experience both AEM and LOM pathways, [20b,21-22] particularly in alkaline electrolytes, and the deprotonation step in LOM pathway is a non-concerted electronproton transfer process, which typically exhibits a pH-dependent OER kinetics.[19c,23,34] Indeed, the OER activities on SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF were enhanced as the pH increased from 13 to 14 (Figure 5a), indicative of the pH-determined OER kinetics, and hence the occurrence of LOM during OER. The  $\log j$  of all the samples at 1.6 V was further compared in Figure 5b, and the slopes ( $\rho = \partial \log j / \partial pH$ ) were calculated.<sup>[22]</sup> It was found that CaSrCF exhibited the highest  $\rho$  value of 0.70 as compared to SrCF (0.55) and CaCF (0.61), implying that the LOM pathway was preferable over CaSrCF. To further validate it, the OER activities of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF in 1.0 M KOH and tetramethylammonium hydroxide (TMAOH) were thus conducted, as shown in Figure 5c. It is worth noting that the tetramethylammonium cation (TMA+) can bind strongly to the surface oxidized oxygen sites of the LOM-based electrocatalysts or interact with the active oxygen species (e.g., superoxo-like  $O^{2-}$ , peroxo-like  $O^{2-}$ ) generated during OER, thereby greatly inhibiting the OER activity. [19c,35] Induced by the inhibited LOM, a significantly increased OER  $\eta$  by 36 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> was observed on CaSrCF in TMAOH, higher than those by 17 mV on SrCF and 10 mV on CaCF. Concurrently, larger Tafel slopes were also achieved over all the samples in TMAOH (Figure 5d), persuasively verifying the strong participation of lattice oxygen during OER. A close inspection of the samples post OER in Figure 5e found that an amorphous layer of 3–4 nm was formed because of the surface reconstruction, strongly supporting the involvement of lattice oxygen redox over SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF during OER.

Given the LOM pathway in Figure 6a, it is thus inferred that the different oxygen vacancy configurations of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF critically determine their intrinsic OER activities. To demonstrate it, cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were conducted in Ar-saturated 6.0 м КОН solution (Figure \$9, Supporting Information), and the oxygen ion diffusion coefficients (Do) of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF were calculated using chronoamperometry based on a bounded 3D diffusion model.[20b,21] The plot of current versus the inverse square root of time (t<sup>-1/2</sup>) was presented in Figure 6b. Apparently, CaSrCF possessed a  $D_{\odot}$  of 7.18 × 10<sup>-11</sup> cm<sup>2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 6c; Table S5, Supporting Information), almost three- and twofold higher than SrCF  $(2.52 \times 10^{-12} \text{ cm}^2 \text{ s}^{-1})$  and CaCF  $(3.67 \times 10^{-11} \text{ cm}^2 \text{ s}^{-1})$ , respectively. However, the varying trend was deviated from previous studies that the oxygen vacancy concentration was linearly correlated with the oxygen ion diffusion coefficient.  $^{[20b,21\text{-}22]}$  In this regard, the sharp decrease of D<sub>O</sub> in CaCF appeared to be attributed to the highly ordered oxygen vacancy distribution, which reduced the oxygen diffusivity. With one step forward, the migration

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Scheme showing the LOM pathway on perovskite oxide, where M represents the transition metal, and the red dashed circle stands for the oxygen vacancy, b) the plot of current as a function of t<sup>−</sup>1/2, and c) the calculated DO of SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF. Em as a function of reaction coordinate on d) SrCF, e) CaSrCF, and f) CaCF, the inset shows the transition states of the lattice oxygen. The correlations of *j* at 1.6 V and g) DO, h) DV, and i) oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering.

energy barriers of lattice oxygen (Em) in bulk SrCF, CaSrCF, and CaCF were quantified by calculating the transition states of lattice oxygen migrating from one site to a neighboring site. Apparently, the Em of 1.61 eV in CaSrCF was comparably lower than that of 1.94 eV in SrCF (Figure 6d–f), suggesting that increasing oxygen vacancy concentration in CaSrCF promoted the lattice oxygen migration to some extent. Nevertheless, CaCF with a highly ordered oxygen vacancy distribution exhibited a relatively higher Em (1.72 eV) than CaSrCF, highlighting that the increased oxygen vacancy ordering impeded the lattice oxygen migration. This finding also well explained why previously reported PrBaCo2O5.5 with a higher oxygen vacancy concentration and the highest oxygen vacancy ordering exhibited the lowest OER activity among a series of PrBaCo2O5+ . [\[20a\]](#page-7-0) It was confirmed in Figure 6g that the superior OER activity on CaSrCF relative to SrCF and CaCF benefited from the facilitated oxygen ion diffusion rate, since it strongly correlated with the lattice oxygen participation within a LOM. Moreover, the diffusion rate of oxygen ion was physically equivalent to that of oxygen vacancy in the opposite direction, thus the oxygen vacancy diffusion coefficient (DV) could also be calculated.[\[20b,36\]](#page-7-0) Not surprisingly, the oxygen vacancy diffusion rate correlated with the OER activity (Figure 6h). It was thus inferred that the disparities in the OER activities of CaSrCF, SrCF, and CaCF were mainly caused by the variations in the oxygen ion diffusion rate stemming from the different oxygen vacancy configurations (Figure 6i). Among them, CaSrCF with a relatively higher oxygen vacancy concentration but a lower ordering exhibited the largest oxygen ion diffusion rate, and the optimal OER activity.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a series of Ca-doped Sr1<sup>−</sup>*x*Ca*x*Co0.5Fe0.5O3− with increased oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering were synthesized to unravel the trade-off between oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering of perovskite oxides for efficient lattice OER. The pH-dependent OER kinetics, coupled with the identification of oxidized oxygen intermediates by TMA<sup>+</sup> and the observation of surface reconstruction from crystalline to amorphous states, provided persuasive evidence confirming that all the electrocatalysts underwent OER via a LOM. Specifically, CaSrCF exhibited the best lattice OER activity, endowing itself with a remarkably <span id="page-7-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

16146840, 2025, 5, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202402967 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

lower of only 310.2 mV to deliver a *j* of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH, together with a lower Tafel slope of 55.87 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, and a superior long-term stability of 100 h, superior to its counterparts and most recently reported perovskites oxides. Theoretical calculations indicated that CaSrCF, with a relatively higher oxygen vacancy concentration and a lower ordering, exhibited the lowest lattice oxygen migration energy battier. This was verified by oxygen intercalation measurements that CaSrCF displayed the maximum oxygen ion diffusion rate, which was essentially responsible for the superior OER performance. These findings clarify the strong correlation of oxygen vacancy concentration and ordering of perovskite oxides with OER activity and get insightful guidance in designing advanced perovskite oxides for different energy conversion and storage devices.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Pilot Group Program of the Research Fund for International Senior Scientists (Grant No. 22350710789), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC, Grant No. 22109182), the Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province, China (2022JJ30684), and the Start-up Funding of Central South University (No. 206030104). The authors are grateful for resources from the High Performance Computing Center of Central South University.

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism, oxygen evolution reaction, oxygen vacancy concentration, oxygen vacancy ordering, perovskite oxide

> Received: July 7, 2024 Revised: August 20, 2024 Published online: August 29, 2024

- [1] W. Schlenker, M. Auffhammer, *Nature.* **2018**, *557*, 498.
- [2] M. Zhang, G. Jeerh, P. Zou, R. Lan, M. Wang, H. Wang, S. Tao, *Mater. Today.* **2021**, *49*, 351.
- [3] a) J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196; b) W. T. Hong, M. Risch, K. A. Stoerzinger, A. Grimaud, J. Suntivich, Y. Shao-Horn, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 1404.
- [4] a) F.-Y. Chen, Z.-Y. Wu, Z. Adler, H. Wang, *Joule.* **2021**, *5*, 1704; b) C. Wei, R. R. Rao, J. Peng, B. Huang, I. E. L. Stephens, M. Risch, Z. J. Xu, Y. Shao-Horn, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806296.

- [5] a) N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337; b) J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1383.
- [6] a) H. Donya, S. Aman, N. Ahmad, H. M. T. Farid, T. A. M. Taha, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy.* **2024**, *51*, 436; b) J. A. Haber, E. Anzenburg, J. Yano, C. Kisielowski, J. M. Gregoire, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2015**, *5*, 1402307; c) M. S. Waheed, S. A. Alsalhi, S. A. M. Abdelmohsen, S. Zaman, S. Ahmad, S. Aman, Z. Ahmad, A. M. A. Henaish, A. G. Al-Sehemi, T. A. M. Taha, *JOM.* **2024**, *76*, 3665.
- [7] L. Lv, Z. Yang, K. Chen, C. Wang, Y. Xiong, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1803358.
- [8] a) Y. Guo, T. Park, J. W. Yi, J. Henzie, J. Kim, Z. Wang, B. Jiang, Y. Bando, Y. Sugahara, J. Tang, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807134; b) A. M. Alenad, S. Fatima, U. Khalid, N. Bano, A. G. Abid, S. Manzoor, H. M. T. Farid, M. Messali, H. A. Alzahrani, T. A. M. Taha, *J. Korean Ceram. Soc.* **2023**, *60*, 868.
- [9] J. Joo, T. Kim, J. Lee, S.-I. Choi, K. Lee, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806682.
- [10] H. A. Alburaih, S. Manzoor, M. Abdullah, M. N. Ashiq, S. Aman, S. V. Trukhanov, T. I. Zubar, Z. Sun, T. A. Taha, A. V. Trukhanov, *RSC Adv.* **2023**, *13*, 8736.
- [11] a) C. E. Beall, E. Fabbri, T. J. Schmidt, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 3094; b) J. Hwang, R. R. Rao, L. Giordano, Y. Katayama, Y. Yu, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science.* **2017**, *358*, 751; c) K. Wang, C. Han, Z. Shao, J. Qiu, S. Wang, S. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102089; d) A. M. Alenad, N. Ahmad, S. Aman, M. Noman Saeed, H. M. T. Farid, T. A. M. Taha, *J. Taibah Univ. Sci.* **2023**, *17*, 2231132.
- [12] a) I. C. Man, H. Y. Su, F. Calle-Vallejo, H. A. Hansen, J. I. Martínez, N. G. Inoglu, J. Kitchin, T. F. Jaramillo, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, *ChemCatChem.* **2011**, *3*, 1159; b) K. Zhu, T. Wu, M. Li, R. Lu, X. Zhu, W. Yang, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2017**, *5*, 19836.
- [13] P. Sabatier, *Ber. Dtsch. Chem. Ges.* **1911**, *44*, 1984.
- [14] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science.* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998; b) D. Liu, P. Zhou, H. Bai, H. Ai, X. Du, M. Chen, D. Liu, W. F. Ip, K. H. Lo, C. T. Kwok, S. Chen, S. Wang, G. Xing, X. Wang, H. Pan, *Small.* **2021**, *17*, 2101605; c) A. Grimaud, K. J. May, C. E. Carlton, Y. L. Lee, M. Risch, W. T. Hong, J. Zhou, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Commun.* **2013**, *4*, 2439.
- [15] J. Sun, L. Du, B. Sun, G. Han, Y. Ma, J. Wang, H. Huo, C. Du, G. Yin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2020**, *12*, 24717.
- [16] Y. Zhu, W. Zhou, Z. G. Chen, Y. Chen, C. Su, M. O. Tadé, Z. Shao, *Angew.Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *127*, 3969.
- [17] Y. Guo, Y. Tong, P. Chen, K. Xu, J. Zhao, Y. Lin, W. Chu, Z. Peng, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 5989.
- [18] a) B. Zhao, L. Zhang, D. Zhen, S. Yoo, Y. Ding, D. Chen, Y. Chen, Q. Zhang, B. Doyle, X. Xiong, M. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14586; b) Y. Zhu, L. Zhang, B. Zhao, H. Chen, X. Liu, R. Zhao, X. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1901783.
- [19] a) A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y. L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 457; b) J. S. Yoo, X. Rong, Y. Liu, A. M. Kolpak, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 4628; c) X. Wang, H. Zhong, S. Xi, W. S. V. Lee, J. Xue, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107956.
- [20] a) E. Marelli, J. Gazquez, E. Poghosyan, E. Muller, D. J. Gawryluk, E. Pomjakushina, D. Sheptyakov, C. Piamonteze, D. Aegerter, T. J. Schmidt, M. Medarde, E. Fabbri, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 14609; b) Y. Pan, X. Xu, Y. Zhong, L. Ge, Y. Chen, J. M. Veder, D. Guan, R. O'Hayre, M. Li, G. Wang, H. Wang, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2002.
- [21] J. T. Mefford, X. Rong, A. M. Abakumov, W. G. Hardin, S. Dai, A. M. Kolpak, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 11053.
- [22] X. Xu, Y. Pan, Y. Zhong, C. Shi, D. Guan, L. Ge, Z. Hu, Y. Y. Chin, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, H. Wang, S. P. Jiang, Z. Shao, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2200530.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

- [23] H. Guo, Y. Yang, G. Yang, X. Cao, N. Yan, Z. Li, E. Chen, L. Tang, M. Peng, L. Shi, S. Xie, H. Tao, C. Xu, Y. Zhu, X. Fu, Y. Pan, N. Chen, J. Lin, X. Tu, Z. Shao, Y. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 5007.
- [24] L. Tang, T. Fan, Z. Chen, J. Tian, H. Guo, M. Peng, F. Zuo, X. Fu, M. Li, Y. Bu, Y. Luo, J. Li, Y. Sun, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *417*, 129324.
- [25] Q. Liu, F. Shen, G. Song, T. Liu, W. Feng, R. Li, X. Zhang, M. Li, L. He, X. Zheng, S. Yin, G. Yin, Y. Song, G. Wang, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202307057.
- [26] C. Bloed, J. Vuong, A. Enriquez, S. Raghavan, I. Tran, S. Derakhshan, H. Tavassol, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 6140.
- [27] a) X. Miao, L. Wu, Y. Lin, X. Yuan, J. Zhao, W. Yan, S. Zhou, L. Shi, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, *55*, 1442; b) J. Du, T. Zhang, F. Cheng, W. Chu, Z. Wu, J. Chen, *Inorg. Chem.* **2014**, *53*, 9106.
- [28] S. Liu, H. Luo, Y. Li, Q. Liu, J.-L. Luo, *Nano Energy.* **2017**, *40*, 115.
- [29] H. Han, A. Sharma, H. L. Meyerheim, J. Yoon, H. Deniz, K.-R. Jeon, A. K. Sharma, K. Mohseni, C. Guillemard, M. Valvidares, P. Gargiani, S. S. P. Parkin, *ACS Nano.* **2022**, *16*, 6206.

- [30] F. Ramezanipour, J. E. Greedan, L. M. D. Cranswick, V. O. Garlea, R. L. Donaberger, J. Siewenie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 3215.
- [31] a) D. Chen, C. Chen, Z. M. Baiyee, Z. Shao, F. Ciucci, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, *115*, 9869; b) Q. Ji, L. Bi, J. Zhang, H. Cao, X. S. Zhao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 1408.
- [32] a) X. Wang, H. Liu, M. Li, J. Li, Y. Lu, L. Wang, Z. Wang, X. Zhang, X. Ding, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2021**, *390*, 138872; b) H. Liu, X. Ding, L. Wang, D. Ding, S. Zhang, G. Yuan, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2018**, *259*, 1004.
- [33] J. Xie, Y. Gao, G. Chen, Y. Wang, J. Yu, F. Ciucci, D. Chen, Z. Shao, *Small.* **2022**, *18*, 2204109.
- [34] A. K. Tomar, U. N. Pan, N. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2022**, *8*, 565.
- [35] C. Yang, O. Fontaine, J. M. Tarascon, A. Grimaud, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *129*, 8778.
- [36] J. E. ten Elshof, M. H. R. Lankhorst, H. J. M. Bouwmeester, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1997**, *144*, 1060.