---
source: Lübke 等 - 2018 - Transition‐Metal‐Doped α‐MnO2 Nanorods as Bifunctional Catalysts for Efficient Oxygen Red.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.812s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:28:57.331965Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/slct.201702514

## ■ Materials Science inc. Nanomaterials & Polymers

# Transition-Metal-Doped $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$ Nanorods as Bifunctional Catalysts for Efficient Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Reactions

Mechthild Lübke,<sup>[a, b]</sup> Afriyanti Sumboja,<sup>[b]</sup> Liam McCafferty,<sup>[a]</sup> Ceilidh F. Armer,<sup>[b, c]</sup> Albertus D. Handoko,<sup>[b]</sup> Yonghua Du,<sup>[d]</sup> Kit McColl,<sup>[a]</sup> Furio Cora,<sup>[a]</sup> Dan Brett,<sup>[e]</sup> Zhaolin Liu,<sup>[b]</sup> and Jawwad A. Darr\*<sup>[a]</sup>

Nano-sized  $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$  nanorods doped with Co or Ru were directly synthesized using a continuous hydrothermal synthesis process (production rate 10 g h $^{-1}$ ) and investigated as relatively inexpensive (due to the small Ru content) bifunctional catalysts for both the Oxygen Reduction Reaction (ORR) and Oxygen Evolution Reaction (OER). The materials were extensively characterized using a range of analytical methods; these including Extended X-Ray Absorption Fine Structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy measurements, which was accompanied by density functional theory studies, in order to elucidate the role of dopants in  $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$  structure. Electrochemical ORR and OER

investigations of the as-prepared doped  $\alpha\text{-MnO}_2$  nanomaterials were compared to more expensive Pt/C or RuO $_2$  catalysts. The doped manganese oxide nanomaterials were used as bifunctional catalysts in the positive electrode of zinc air batteries (with oversized zinc metal negative electrode and limited density of discharge window) and displayed excellent performance (the overpotential was 0.77 and 0.68 V for  $\alpha\text{-MnO}_2$  modified with 7.6 at% Co and 9.4 at% Ru, respectively). Overall, as a result of doping, this study achieved improved bifunctional catalytic activities of metal oxide catalysts, which was comparable to more expensive alternatives.

#### Introduction

Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction Reactions (ORRs) and Oxygen Evolution Reactions (OERs) are important in the fields of electrochemical energy storage and conversion, with applications including fuel cells, [1] electrolysers [2] and metal air batteries. [3] In a metal air battery, O<sub>2</sub> is the active medium at the positive electrode, where OER and ORR occur during charging and discharging, respectively. The sluggish kinetics of OER and/or ORR catalysts, typically require a significant overpotential to drive the reactions, which is detrimental to round-trip efficiency. [4] Furthermore, many current catalysts of this type are

based on large precious metal contents, e.g. Pt/C or Pt-alloys for ORR and Ru-based materials such as RuO<sub>2</sub>, as the most effective OER catalysts.<sup>[3a,5]</sup> Thus, there is interest towards developing less inexpensive and more sustainable catalysts, which can ideally perform both OER and ORR reactions in one material (rather than two separate catalysts).

α-MnO<sub>2</sub> has been shown to be an excellent ORR (and potentially a OER) catalyst, with better performances compared to the other MnO<sub>2</sub> phases (e.g.  $\beta$ -,  $\gamma$ - or  $\delta$ -MnO<sub>2</sub>). Both the precursors and synthesis methods for the production of  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> are relatively inexpensive, which suggests this material could be a sustainable replacement for the Pt or Ru-based benchmark materials.[7] Nanosized particles (high surface area) are crucial for high-performance OER and ORR catalysts, due to the high accessibility of water molecules towards the catalysts and high ionic conductivities.<sup>[6a]</sup> For improved OER and ORR catalyst performance, several dopants have been introduced into  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub>, e.g. Fe, Co, Ni, Ti and Cu. [6a,8] Although  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> shows credible ORR catalytic properties, its OER performance needs improvement. One approach to achieve this has been to dope a known OER catalyst metals into  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub>, e.g. cobalt<sup>[9]</sup> or ruthenium.[3a,5] Several groups have shown the synergistic and advantageous performance of bifunctional catalysts composed of mixed cobalt-manganese oxides [9b,d,10] and mixed rutheniummanganese oxides.[11] Despite this, doping and simultaneous nano-sizing of α-MnO<sub>2</sub> (using scalable methods) towards improved OER performance, is underdeveloped.

Herein, the direct and scalable synthesis of doped  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> nanomaterials was performed using a continuous hydrothermal comproportionation reaction in the presence of a dopant,

2613

M. Lübke, Dr. L. McCafferty, K. McColl, Dr. F. Cora, Prof. J. A. Darr
Department of Chemistry, University College London, 20 Gordon Street,
London, WC1H 0AJ, UK
E-mail: j.a.darr@ucl.ac.uk

<sup>[</sup>b] M. Lübke, Dr. A. Sumboja, C. F. Armer, Dr. A. D. Handoko, Dr. Z. Liu Institute of Materials Research and Engineering (IMRE), A\*STAR (Agency for Science, Technology and Research), 2 Fusionopolis Way, Innovis #08-03, Singapore 138634

<sup>[</sup>c] C. F. Armer College of Engineering and Computer Science, Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia

<sup>[</sup>d] Dr. Y. Du Institute of Chemical & Engineering Sciences, A\*STAR, (Agency for Science, Technology and Research), 1 Pesek Road, Jurong Island, Singapore 627833

<sup>[</sup>e] Prof. D. Brett Electrochemical Innovation Lab, Department of Chemical Engineering, University College London, Torrington Place, WC1E 7JE, UK

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201702514

Figure 1. TEM images of a-b) MnO<sub>2</sub>, c-d) MnO<sub>2</sub>-7.6%Co, e-f) MnO<sub>2</sub>-9.4%Ru.

similar to that first reported by Wang et al.<sup>[12]</sup> As well as the dopant ions, two manganese salts containing Mn<sup>2+</sup> and Mn<sup>7+</sup>, were used as precursor solutions in the appropriate ratio, resulting in an average oxidation state of Mn<sup>4+</sup> in the product for Mn. This reaction with respect to Mn is comprised of two half-reactions:<sup>[12]</sup>

$$Mn^{2+} + 2 H_2O \rightarrow MnO_2 + 4 H^+ + 2 e^- (E^0 = 1.2 V)$$
 (1)

$$MnO_4^- + 4 H^+ + 3 e^- \rightarrow MnO_2 + H_2O (E^0 = 1.7 V)$$
 (2)

In the current study, nanosized  $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$  based powders were directly synthesized using a laboratory scale (<10 g per hour production rate) continuous hydrothermal flow synthesis (CHFS) reactor. This synthesis method has been developed at the lab-scale and pilot plant scale (production rates of up to 2 kg per hour) by the authors. [13]

The CHFS process is a green, rapid and continuous process that mixes supercritical water (in an engineered mixer) with appropriate metal salts in ambient temperature water, to instantly form nanoparticles of the corresponding metal oxides (via a rapid hydrolysis, decomposition and dehydration reactions) which are collected downstream after cooling in-flow within the process.<sup>[14]</sup> The CHFS process is described in more detail in the Supporting Information (Figure S1) and is suitable for the production of high surface area and small particle size materials<sup>[15]</sup> (including ORR and OER catalysts). Consequently,

the small size of these materials, may be useful to improve charge transfer and transport processes.<sup>[16]</sup>

The primary aim of this work was to identify more sustainable and inexpensive bifunctional (ORR and OER) catalysts that are alternatives to Pt/C or Ru oxide based catalysts. The electrochemical properties of doped  $\alpha\textsc{-MnO}_2$  nanomaterials (with <8 at% Co or <10 at% Ru content), were initially screened to assess their ORR and OER performances using rotating disk electrode (RDE) experiments. All materials were compared with a Pt/C (benchmark for ORR) and RuO $_2$  (benchmark for OER) catalysts, and the most promising materials were evaluated as bifunctional catalysts for the positive electrode of Zn-air batteries (vs. Zn metal).

#### **Results and Discussion**

#### **Materials Characterization**

All materials were labelled according to the dopant amount from elemental analyses (XRF) rather than the nominal values used in the CHFS precursors, e.g.  $MnO_2$ -4.8%Ru refers to a ruthenium content of 4.8 at% of Ru in the  $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$  based sample. All materials were collected as black powders with yields > 90 % (production rate ca. 10 g h $^{-1}$ ).

TEM images revealed 1D single-crystal nanorods as the main particle morphology for all samples (Figure 1). All particles showed high crystallinity as evidenced by the presence of lattice fringes with lattice spacing of ca. 0.31 nm, which is

Figure 2. (a) XRD patterns (Cu-source) of all synthesized samples, the included star (\*) indicates the secondary minor impurity peak positions for the samples MnO2-7.6%Co and MnO2-9.4%Ru. (b) Square tunnel structure of a-MnO2 emphasizing the (partially) location of K<sup>+</sup> as a stabilizing cation.

consistent with the (310) plane of a-MnO2, Figure 1a,b. Pristine MnO2 particles showed an average lengths in the range ca. 200 to 400 nm. Addition of Co2<sup>+</sup> or Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> salts to the precursor Mn salts, resulted in differing particle morphologies in the CHFS process. Nanorods and spherical particles were present in each doped sample (Figure 1c,d for MnO2-7.6%Co and Figure 1e,f for MnO2-9.4%Ru). The nanorods were significantly bigger for sample MnO2-7.6%Co (ca. 700 nm length) compared to MnO2- 9.4%Ru (range of ca. 200 to 400 nm in length). In the experience of the authors, a number of reasons can exist for the changes in size and shape. Factors concerning differences in size and shape due to dopants are complex; in some cases where process conditions are the same but the precursors are changed, the change in aspect ratio or size is often associated with the changing balance between nucleation and growth conditions, with larger/longer particles are generally due to a relative increase in solubility of the precursors, which can increase the time for the growth phase (in some cases if a fast growth direction exists in a crystal system, then this makes the particles longer in that axis), as has been observed for Zn oxides.[17] Due to differences in ionic radii, the authors have also observed that rounding effects on particles can also occur.[18] More TEM images can be found in Figure S2 in the Supporting Information. Additional SEM images revealed that a representative particle size distribution was measured via TEM (Figure S3).

The BET specific surface area was 72.7 m2 g-<sup>1</sup> for undoped MnO2 and ca. 38.1 and 49.4 m<sup>2</sup> g-<sup>1</sup> for samples MnO2-2.9%Co and MnO2-7.6%Co, respectively. In contrast, when a Ru3<sup>+</sup> salt was added into the Mn precursor solution, the resulting nanomaterials had a surface area of 71.0 and 87.4 m2 g-<sup>1</sup> for MnO2-4.8%Ru and MnO2-9.4%Ru samples, respectively. The changes in surface area are clearly a result of the differences in particle size and shape as well as different levels of agglomeration, which was observed for these materials.

The diffraction data of all materials can be matched to the tetragonal a-MnO2 as the main phase (space group I 4/m, No. 83, Figure 2a). The best Rietveld refinement fit for the a-MnO2 samples was found to be the hollandite type structure with the empirical formula of K2-xMn8O16\*nH2O (ICSD 59159) where K<sup>+</sup> (and/or H2O) is incorporated into some of the 2 3 2 MnO6 tunnel structure, see Figure 2b. Although hydrated a-MnO2 can be stable without any cations, the incorporation of K<sup>+</sup> within the 2 3 2 MnO6 tunnel is commonly seen in a-MnO2 synthesized using KMnO4 as a precursor and is known to significantly improve its stability.[6a] The major difference compared to the reference XRD patterns was that the (211) and (002) peaks of all as-synthesized materials, showed higher relative intensities compared to the ICSD reference (see also Figure S4 in the Supporting Information);[19] several reports have addressed reasons for these differences.[20] Li et al. ascribed this phenomenon to the (210) planes being aligned to the side walls.[19a,b] Simply described, the c-channels grow parallel to the nanorod axis (see TEM images with strongly detected lattices in the abplane, Figure 1). Rietveld refinement results are shown in Table 2. Due to the orientation of the particles, a proper fit was challenging, which was also noted by Li et al. (weighted profile R-factor, Rwp: 13.50).[19b] Refinement of the XRD patterns revealed a decrease in the a and b directions for the samples with cobalt and a slight increase for ruthenium doping, compared to undoped a-MnO2. The c direction increased for Ru-doping and decreased for Co-doping compared to a-MnO2. This matched the unit cell volumes with a decrease with Codoping and an increase with Ru-doping. The cationic radii in an octahedral environment for Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> are 67, 79, 68.5 and 76 pm, respectively. As the possible dopants had larger cationic radii than Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, a unit cell volume increase might have been expected for Co2+/3<sup>+</sup> doping. Duan et al. conducted theoretical investigations on the effects of Fe3<sup>+</sup> (69

pm) doping in the structure of a-MnO2 and suggested a significant contraction of the doped FeO6 octahedra compared to the MnO6 octahedra, which would lead to a reduction in the average M–O bond length.[21] Sample MnO2-9.4%Ru showed a minor rutile RuO2 secondary phase (similar to the reference pattern ICSD 15071, Figure S4 in the Supporting Information), and sample MnO2-7.6%Co showed a very small impurity in the XRD pattern at 2q=14.98 (Figure 2a), but the intensity was very low. No other impurities were observable in the other samples via XRD. XRF determined that the added transition metals were present in the final product. In addition to the transition metals, some potassium was detected for all samples (Table 1).

Investigation of Mn 3s spin-orbit splitting for each sample reveals the ratio of Mn<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> at the surface of the sample.[22] A splitting of 4.6 0.1 eV is indicative of Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> and 5.2 0.1 eV for Mn<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. [23] All samples showed a spin-orbit splitting in the range 4.6 0.1 eV (4+ state), Figure 3a.

Figure 3. High-resolution XPS spectra with splitting energies of (a) Mn 3 s, (b) Co 2p for sample MnO2-7.6%Co and (c) Ru 3p for sample MnO2-9.4%Ru.

Co 2p splitting energies are plotted in Figure 3b for sample MnO2-7.6%Co. The core level Co 2p3/2 signal was convoluted to four fitted peaks with binding energies (BEs) of 780.0 and 785.9 eV, which could be assigned to Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and its satellite line and the other couple at a higher BE (781.6 and 789.5 eV) could be assigned to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and its respective satellite line.[24] The BE value with a spin–orbit splitting of ca. 15.5 eV (795.4 eV Co 2p1/ <sup>2</sup> and 779.9 eV in the Co 2p3/2) indicated that the Co3<sup>+</sup> species are largely on the surface.[25] Using the Shirley method to calculate the exact Co2<sup>+</sup> to Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ratio, suggested a value of ca. 2:3,[26] (for additional XPS data for sample MnO2-2.9%Co see Figure S5 in the Supporting Information). Ru 3p splitting energies are plotted in Figure 3c for sample MnO2-9.4%Ru. The BE value with a spin–orbit splitting of ca. 21.7 eV (484.9 eV Ru 3p1/2 and 463.2 eV in the Ru 3p3/2) indicated that the Ru4<sup>+</sup> species are predominant on the surface.[27]

In order to further evaluate the oxidation states in the cobalt based samples compared to MnO2, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were performed, Figure 4a,b. The normalized Co-K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra are presented in Figure 4a. The standard samples of Co<sup>0</sup> , Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co3O4, were used to confirm the oxidation states. The sample MnO2-2.9%Co had more Co3<sup>+</sup> compared to sample MnO2-7.6%Co, as the former had similar valence with Co3O4, i. e. a ratio of 2+ to 3+ of 1:2 (Shirley method from XPS showed ratio of 2:3). The normalized Mn-Kedge XANES spectra are presented in Figure 4b, and showed Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> as main oxidation state for all samples, with slightly lower oxidation state for MnO2-7.6%Co (similar to the results obtained from XPS).

In order to determine the local structural parameters of phase pure a-MnO2 and the Co-doped MnO2, Fourier-transformed (FT) magnitudes of k<sup>3</sup> -weighted Extended X-Ray Absorption Fine Structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy, were obtained; see Figure 4c. The Mn-K-edge revealed distinct FT peaks within 3.50 A˚ range and showed the typical a-MnO2 features with a (2 <sup>3</sup> 2) tunnel structure. The strongest peak at 1.45 A˚ was the Mn-O bond in the MnO6 octahedra. The second (2.48 A˚) and third peaks (3.13 A˚) were assigned to the edge-sharing (Mn– Mnedge) and corner-sharing (Mn–Mncorner) MnO6 octahedra, respectively. Sample MnO2-7.6%Co showed a slight distortion for the Mn–Mnedge peak. For the Co-K-edge, distinct FT peaks showed that the majority of the Co ions were successfully doped into the a-MnO2 structure for each sample because their peak/reflection shape was more similar to MnO2 rather than that of Co3O4. For the higher Co-loading sample, the neighboring atoms were slightly distorted, which might also explain the detected additional phase from XRD. Lee et al. reported that for higher concentrations of Co2+/3<sup>+</sup> in a-MnO2, a shift towards d-MnO2 occurred.[28] Since the Mn-K-edge showed distinct FT peaks of a-MnO2, the secondary phase might be related to a cobalt compound.

To investigate the location of ruthenium in the Ru-doped MnO2, periodic density functional theory (DFT) calculations using the hybrid-exchange B3LYP functional were performed on MnO2 polymorphs (a- and b-) substituted with Ru. For full details of the calculations, see Supporting Information. Ru

Figure 4. Normalized XANES of different cobalt-doped samples compared to undoped MnO<sub>2</sub> for determination of the (a) Co- and (b) Mn-oxidation state. (c) FT data of Mn–K-edge and Co–K-edge without phase correction.

incorporation in  $MnO_2$  is relatively straightforward to investigate computationally, since no charge balancing is required when  $Mn^{4+}$  is replaced by  $Ru^{4+}$ . Investigating the location of Co incorporation into  $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$  using DFT, requires a full defect characterization study, including varying oxygen vacancy concentration to retain charge neutrality when  $Mn^{4+}$  is replaced by  $Co^{2+/3+}$ . As we can clearly see that Co incorporation is occurring from Co–K edge EXAFS, DFT studies were only applied for  $Ru^{4+}$  substitution. Calculations on the (rutile)  $\beta$ -MnO $_2$  polymorph were included since  $RuO_2$  only forms the rutile crystal structure. Thus,  $Ru^{4+}$  might be expected to substitute more favorably into a  $MnO_2$  polymorph that it shares a stable structure with, which could in turn have implications for the synthesis products.

 $\beta$ -MnO $_2$  is known to be the experimental ground state of pristine MnO $_2$ . However, precise comparisons of formation energy between the MnO $_2$  polymorphs is challenging experimentally since stability can be influenced by hydration levels and the incorporation of ions in the channels. For example,  $\alpha$ -MnO $_2$  can be stabilized by > 40 kJ mol $^{-1}$  relative to  $\beta$ -MnO $_2$  depending on K $^+$  ion incorporation and hydration. Furthermore, the accurate determination of relative stabilities of many crystalline polymorphs including MnO $_2$  is a well-known challenge for DFT. The ordering of experimental stability of the pristine polymorphs is correctly reproduced by the calculations reported herein, which show that  $\beta$ -form is more stable than  $\alpha$ -form by 17.4 kJ mol $^{-1}$ .

Defect formation energies in the 16 cation supercells (6.25 % concentration Ru) were determined relative to the energy of the relevant polymorph by the following calculation:

$$\Delta E_{sub} = E(Mn_{15}RuO_{32}) - 15 \times E(MnO_2) - E(RuO_2)$$
 (3)

Our calculations find that the defect formation energy for the incorporation of Ru<sup>4+</sup> into  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> is +0.92 eV / unit cell [0.068 eV / formula unit (f.u.) MnO<sub>2</sub>, or 6.5 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup>], whereas in  $\beta$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> it is +0.25 eV / unit cell (0.016 eV / f.u. MnO<sub>2</sub> or 1.5 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup>).

The destabilization of  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> relative to  $\beta$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> with the incorporation of  $Ru^{4+}$  in the order of +5 kJ  $mol^{-1}$ , may have implications for the synthesis products. These results may explain the observation of an impurity rutile phase in the MnO<sub>2</sub>-9.4%Ru sample (Figure 2), which could be attributed to the formation of a Mn doped RuO2 rutile phase (formula Rux Mn<sub>(1-x)</sub>O<sub>2</sub> phase), which mirrors the literature report of Xu et al.[31] However, the authors note that despite the higher thermodynamic Ru defect formation energy in α-MnO<sub>2</sub>, a low concentration of  $Ru^{4+}$  substitution into  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> cannot be excluded. Due to the exotic reaction conditions employed herein for CHFS, this usually results in the production of kinetic or metastable products (rather than strictly thermodynamic products), e.g. this can lead to an increase the solid-solution solubility<sup>[32]</sup> of metal oxides beyond that of conventional solidstate or batch hydrothermal syntheses. Herein, the calculated lattice parameters of Ru-substituted  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> (Table S2) are consistent with the small unit cell expansion observed for the experimental XRD data (Table 1).

To understand the electronic effects that might occur with Ru substitution into MnO<sub>2</sub>, the band structure of pristine and Ru-doped  $\alpha$ - and  $\beta$ - polymorphs of MnO<sub>2</sub> were investigated. The bandgap of pristine  $\alpha$ -MnO<sub>2</sub> is found by B3LYP to be 2.96 eV. The substitution of Ru<sup>4+</sup> at a nominal concentration of 6.25 %, closes the bandgap to 1.8 eV, and Ru 4d states form the top of the valence band (VB) and bottom of the conduction

Table 1. Materials characterizations: (a) Refined cell parameters; (b) atomic ratio of Mn to K obtained from XRF; (c) Mn3 s peak splitting obtained from XPS; (d) BET surface area.

| a           |           |           |                         |            | b                     | c                         | d                            |  |
|-------------|-----------|-----------|-------------------------|------------|-----------------------|---------------------------|------------------------------|--|
| Sample      | a / A˚    | c / A˚    | Unit cell Volume / A˚ 3 | Rwp<br>/ % | Atomic ratio / % Mn:K | Mn 3s peak splitting / eV | BET surface area / m2 g<br>1 |  |
| MnO2        | 9.847(1)  | 2.8580(4) | 277.14(7)               | 15.12      | 93.52:6.48            | 4.53                      | 72.7                         |  |
| MnO2-2.9%Co | 9.8226(9) | 2.8565(3) | 275.60(6)               | 16.60      | 92.78:7.22            | 4.50                      | 38.1                         |  |
| MnO2-7.6%Co | 9.8087(9) | 2.8567(3) | 274.85(6)               | 14.48      | 94.05:5.95            | 4.73                      | 49.4                         |  |
| MnO2-4.8%Ru | 9.847(1)  | 2.8620(5) | 277.51(7)               | 14.81      | 93.18:6.82            | 4.50                      | 71.0                         |  |
| MnO2-9.4%Ru | 9.847(3)  | 2.864(1)  | 277.7(2)                | 15.53      | 95.51:4.49            | 4.55                      | 87.4                         |  |

Table 2. Electrochemical characterizations: (a) onset potential at -0.1 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> and (b) saturating current at -0.8 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>, which were each obtained from the ORR results in Figure 5b; (c) onset potential at 0.1 mA.cm-<sup>2</sup> and (d) measured current at 0.8 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>, which were each obtained from the OER results in Figure 5c; (e) potential difference of the onset potentials for ORR and OER.

|          | a                                 | b                                               | c                         | d                                           | e         |
|----------|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Sample   | Ej=<br>0.1 ORR / V vs. Ag/<br>Ag+ | 2 @<br>jsat ORR / mA cm<br>0.8 V vs. Ag/<br>Ag+ | Ej=0.1 OER / V vs. Ag/Ag+ | 2 @0.8 V vs. Ag/<br>j0.8 OER / mA cm<br>Ag+ | DE /<br>V |
| MnO2     | 0.16<br>                          | 4.22<br>                                        | 0.67                      | 5.74                                        | 0.83      |
| MnO2-    | <br>0.18                          | <br>4.32                                        | 0.66                      | 6.63                                        | 0.84      |
| 2.9%Co   |                                   |                                                 |                           |                                             |           |
| MnO2-    | <br>0.18                          | <br>3.91                                        | 0.65                      | 7.63                                        | 0.83      |
| 7.6%Co   |                                   |                                                 |                           |                                             |           |
| MnO2-    | <br>0.12                          | <br>3.97                                        | 0.60                      | 15.65                                       | 0.72      |
| 4.8%Ru   |                                   |                                                 |                           |                                             |           |
| MnO2-    | <br>0.12                          | <br>4.77                                        | 0.59                      | 16.21                                       | 0.71      |
| 9.4%Ru   |                                   |                                                 |                           |                                             |           |
| Pt/C-ref | <br>0.09                          | <br>5.21                                        | 0.68                      | 5.61                                        | 0.77      |
| RuO2-ref | <br>0.28                          | <br>4.73                                        | 0.48                      | 29.68                                       | 0.76      |

band (CB) (Figure S6 in the Supporting Information). Ru substitution into b-MnO2 is also shown to close the bandgap, from 1.8 eV (pristine b-MnO2) to 1.4 eV (Ru-substituted b-MnO2), and the Ru 4d states form the top of the VB and bottom of the CB, as they do in Ru-substituted a-MnO2. We would therefore expect that in both MnO2 polymorphs, Ru substitution would contribute to improved electronic conductivity, and Ru atoms would provide electroactive sites for electron transfer for the OER and ORR.

To summarize, all samples showed a-MnO2 as the main phase and 1D single-crystal nanorods as the main particle morphology, with the rods oriented along the c-channels. Addition of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in the precursor solution during synthesis resulted in bigger nanorods and lower surface area. Moreover, the unit cell volume decreased. XAS measurements confirmed the successful incorporation of the Co atom in the Mn position. Addition of Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> precursor solution during synthesis resulted in higher surface area with a secondary spherical rutile RuO2 or Ru-incorporated b-MnO2 phase for higher Ru concentration combined with doping into a-MnO2. The successful doping of some of the Ru was confirmed via a change in the lattice parameters and suggested via DFT studies. Ru-doping into a-MnO2 (and b-MnO2) is expected to increase the electronic conductivity.

#### Electrochemical Characterization

### Oxygen Reduction Reaction

For investigation of the ORR activity, the materials were loaded onto glassy carbon electrodes for CV measurements in N2 and O2 saturated 0.1 M KOH (Figure 5a). All CVs conducted in Arsaturated KOH did not show discernible features as compared to the CVs in O2-saturated KOH, which suggested no significant reactions had occurred. The significant area under the CV plot for all a-MnO2 materials was indicative of its highly capacitive nature. As soon as O2 was introduced into the solution, a current from the oxygen reduction reaction was detected. The reduction peak was measured at -0.17 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup> for undoped a-MnO2. Samples MnO2-2.9%Co and MnO2-7.6%Co, showed a reduction peak at ca. -0.2 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup> and samples MnO2-4.8%Ru and MnO2-9.4%Ru, showed a prominent reduction peak at ca. -0.14 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>. In the Figure S8 (Supporting Information), a CV is presented for a potential region where mainly charge storage via double-layer capacitance occurred. The charging current was consistent with the measured (BET) surface area (see also Figure S9, where no carbon additives were used).

The superior bifunctional catalytic performance of the Rudoped MnO2 samples was also seen from the results of the RDE experiments (Figure 5b,c and Table 2). The onset potential (measured at a current density of 0.1 mA cm-) for all MnO2 based materials, was higher (all higher than -0.25 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>) compared to the pure RuO2 sample (-0.28 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>) and

Figure 5. (a) CV curves for all samples on glassy carbon electrodes in O2 saturated (solid line) and Ar-saturated (dash line) 0.1 M KOH. (b) Rotatingdisk voltammograms in O2-saturated 0.1 M KOH with a sweep rate of 5 mV s-<sup>1</sup> for ORR. (c) Rotating-disk voltammograms in 0.1 M KOH with a sweep rate of 5 mV s-<sup>1</sup> for OER at a rotating rate of 1600 rpm each.

lower compared to the Pt/C-reference sample (-0.09 V vs. Ag/ Ag<sup>+</sup>), Table 2. The onset potential of Ru-doped MnO2 and the Co-based samples was similar and the best performance was measured for samples MnO2-4.8%Ru and MnO2-9.4%Ru at 0.12 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>. The mass transport limiting (saturating) current measured at 0.8 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>, showed good catalytic activity for all samples (Figure 5b). The Co-doped MnO2 samples showed lower saturating currents with increasing cobalt content (see also Figure S10 in the Supporting Information). Ru-doped MnO2 samples showed a saturating current density of -4.77 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> for sample MnO2-9.4%Ru (versus 4.73 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> for the RuO2 reference sample). However, overall the Pt/C-reference sample showed the highest saturating current density of -5.21 mA cm-2, whilst MnO2-9.4%Ru had similar electrochemical oxygen reduction performance.

a-MnO2 is already known to be a good ORR catalyst in alkaline media. This was also shown by the Koutecky-Levich plots provided herein (see calculations and discussions in the Supporting Information). The electron transfer number was calculated at -0.7 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup> and showed a value of ca. 4 for the Pt/C-reference, undoped MnO2, MnO2-7.6%Co and MnO2- 9.4%Ru samples, suggesting a 4-electron transfer process. The RuO2 reference sample showed an average transfer number of only 3.4 electrons, reflecting its poorer ORR performance compared to the best manganese oxide samples.

Overall, a-MnO2 is known to be an excellent ORR catalyst,[33] which was further confirmed in the work herein. Co-doping of a-MnO2 at low concentrations, was expected to be beneficial for ORR (see data showing similar ORR activity, despite lower surface area). Considering that the surface area of Co-doped MnO2 was lower compared to undoped MnO2, its full potential was not evaluated in a fair comparison herein. With increasing cobalt dopant concentration, the activity was limited, which is in line with the literature[8a,10a] and comparable with pure Co3O4 (Figure S10). Ru-doping into a-MnO2 improved the ORR performance.[34] The Ru-incorporation within the sample (either doping and secondary phase) was expected to increase the electronic conductivity (see Figure S8 in the Supporting Information and results from DFT studies) leading to improved ORR performance compared to undoped MnO2.

#### Oxygen Evolution Reaction

As mentioned in the introduction, undoped MnO2 usually shows only moderate performance as an OER catalyst. The OER performance was also investigated via linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) at 1600 rpm (Figure 5c). As expected, the RuO2 reference was an excellent benchmark material for OER catalysts. The onset potential (at the defined current density of 1 mA cm-) was slightly reduced with Co-doping (0.67 and 0.65 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup> for MnO2 and MnO2-7.6%Co, respectively). Incorporation of Ru<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> into the manganese oxide, decreased the onset potential to 0.59 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup> for the MnO2-4.8%Ru sample, which could not quite match the performance of undoped RuO2 (0.48 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>), but exceeded the Pt/C reference material (0.68 V vs. Ag/Ag<sup>+</sup>). Doping of MnO2 with Co, slightly improved the OER performance, although the surface area was lower compared to undoped MnO2 (while Ru doping drastically shifted the performance towards a better OER catalyst). The superior OER performance of the doped

Figure 6. (a) Scheme of a Zn-air battery. (b) First cycles of Zn-air battery testing for samples MnO2 (red), MnO2-7.6%Co (green) and MnO2-9.4%Ru (blue) in comparison to Pt/C reference (grey) and RuO2 reference (black) at 5 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> for 5 min charge/discharge. (c) Overpotentials after various cycles. (d) Overall performance for more than 200 hours of testing.

MnO2 based samples compared to Pt/C reference, was further supported by the measured Tafel slope (Figure S13). The Pt/C reference showed a Tafel slope of 102 mV / decade,[35] whilst samples MnO2, MnO2-7.6%Co and MnO2-9.4%Ru showed a Tafel slopes of 63, 57 and 62 mV / decade, respectively, in the lower over-potential region. The excellent performance of the RuO2 reference sample was shown with a low slope of only 50 mV / decade.[11a,36] A decrease of the slope with higher cobalt dopant content has been previously observed for Mn-Co-oxides.[10a]

The main approach of the work herein was to dope transition metal elements (whose corresponding homometallic oxides are known to be excellent OER catalysts) into a-MnO2 to improve its OER performance. The onset potential was already higher for all doped MnO2 based materials compared to the Pt/ C reference (Figure 5c). The results herein for Co-doped a-MnO2 are similar to the results of Menezes et al., who reported increased ORR performance with higher Mn content and increased OER performance with higher Co content in mixed manganese cobalt oxides;[10a] see also further references herein.[37] A drastic increase of OER catalyst activity has been shown with Ru incorporation into a-MnO2. Interestingly, these samples had a similar surface area compared to the undoped a-MnO2 sample (71.0 m2 g-1 ); yet the onset potential was reduced and the saturation current was nearly three times higher (Table 2). It was shown elsewhere that optimum values of 5 to 10 at% Ru in MnO2 showed superior OER performance.[11a,34a] For the OER reactions herein, the presence of each dopant increased the catalytic activity.

One important parameter for ideal bifunctional catalysts for Zn-air batteries is the potential difference of the onset potential for ORR and OER (see the last column in Table 2). A low potential difference should positively improve energy efficiency. Pt/C and RuO2 reference materials, showed onset potential differences of 0.77 and 0.76 V, respectively. In comparison, potential differences of 0.83, 0.83 and 0.71 V were observed for undoped MnO2, MnO2-7.6%Co and MnO2-9.4%Ru samples, respectively. Therefore, these three samples were chosen for initial investigations as bifunctional catalysts in Zn-air batteries (Figure 6a). These tests can be also seen as an indirect investigation of the stability of the materials under basic testing conditions.

#### Zinc-Air Battery Testing

In Figure 6b, the initial charge/discharge curves for the MnO2 samples in comparison to the RuO2 reference and Pt/C reference samples, are presented. For the ORR (discharging), all MnO2 based materials showed similar discharge potentials of ca. 1.28 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and the RuO2 reference material showed a poorer performance of only 1.17 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, which is similar to the previous literature results (see Figure 5). The Pt/C reference sample showed a low discharging potential of 1.23 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>; this sample displayed a decrease in charge potential during the first 50 cycles, which was also observed in literature reports previously[38] and might be related to a surface activation effect. There was a higher difference for the OER (charge) performance between the samples and references. As expected for OER, the RuO2 reference sample showed the optimum performance (1.93 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>) followed by MnO2- 9.4%Ru (1.96 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>), then MnO2-7.6%Co (2.05 V vs. Zn/ Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>) and finally undoped MnO2 (2.13 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>), which is in agreement with the results from Figure 5c. Pt/C reference

only showed a charge potential of 2.16 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. The overall voltage difference (DE) was therefore 0.93, 0.85, 0.77, 0.68 and 0.76 V for Pt/C reference, MnO2, MnO2-7.6%Co, MnO2- 9.4%Ru and RuO2 reference, respectively (Figure 6c).

All materials appeared to be very stable for more than 1200 cycles in the zinc air batteries. After 200 hours of testing, the Pt/C reference and all MnO2 based materials showed similar charge/discharge profiles with a charge potential of 2.25 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and a discharge potential of 1.16 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (DE= 1.09 V). In comparison, the RuO2 reference sample was very stable considering the charge performance with a potential of 1.91 V vs. Zn/Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and showed a sloped discharge profile at 1.04 V vs. Zn/Zn2<sup>+</sup> (DE=0.87 V) (Figure 6d).

## Conclusions

In the current study, a-MnO2 based materials were synthesized in a single step using a CHFS reactor. Co and Ru atoms were chosen as the potential dopants and the successful doping was shown via Rietveld refinements and XAS measurements, and further supported from DFT modelling studies. The obtained nanorods appeared to have a specific orientation along the caxis and the dopant position was shown to be the Mn4<sup>+</sup> position in the MnO6 octahedra. DFT calculations suggested that the materials should have promising characteristics in terms of electronic conductivity for Ru doping in b-MnO2, which could be investigated in future. The materials were investigated as possible all in one bifunctional catalysts in direct comparison to using both Pt/C and RuO2 reference catalysts. Even though addition of Co<sup>2</sup>+/3<sup>+</sup> doping into the Mn oxide halved the specific surface area, its ORR performance was similar to the undoped a-MnO2 and its activity during OER was enhanced as compared to the a-MnO2, which was also seen for Zn-air battery testing. Ru doped a-MnO2 showed the most attractive bifunctional catalytic activities among the tested samples, which might be due to improved electronic conductivity during doping. Thus, the use of Co and Ru dopants had affected the physical properties of the host a-MnO2 and influenced the bifunctional catalytic activities of the host catalyst. Furthermore, the use of relatively modest amounts of dopants resulted in the significant improvements of the existing bifunctional catalysts, which might be also interesting for water splitting in future.

#### Supporting Information Summary

The Supporting Information includes the experimental section, further details on the CHFS process, more PXRD and XPS results, TEM and SEM imaging, details and more explanations for the DFT calculations, investigations on the electrochemical active surface area, comparisons of the ORR and OER performance of nano-sized Co3O4 versus the Co-based MnO2 samples, Koutecky-Levich calculations, Tafel slopes and finally a guide for the calculation of the potential conversion towards RHE.

# Acknowledgements

The EPSRC are thanked for funding the Centre for Doctoral Training in Molecular Modelling & Materials Science (UCL, UK) and A Star (Singapore) are thanked for supporting a studentship for ML. Mr Joe Nolan is thanked for technical support. Li Bing (IMRE, Singapore), Xi Shibo (ICES, Singapore) and Wenxian Li (UOW, Australia) are thanked for fruitful discussions. JAD, LM, FC and KM acknowledge EPSRC for funding [in the JUICED energy materials project EPSRC reference EP/R023662/1]. We acknowledge the use of the Archer UK National Supercomputing Service (http://www.archer.ac.uk) via our membership of the UK's HEC Materials Chemistry Consortium, which is funded by EPSRC (EP/ L000202).

# Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: Continuous hydrothermal flow synthesis · MnO2 · doping · oxygen reduction · oxygen evolution · Zn-air batteries

- [1] M. K. Debe, Nature 2012, 486, 43–51.
- [2] M. Carmo, D. L. Fritz, J. Mergel, D. Stolten, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2013, 38, 4901–4934.
- [3] a) F. Cheng, J. Chen, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41, 2172–2192; b) B. Li, Y. Chen, X. Ge, J. Chai, X. Zhang, T. A. Hor, G. Du, Z. Liu, H. Zhang, Y. Zong, Nanoscale 2016, 8, 5067–5075; c) B. Li, X. Ge, F. W. T. Goh, T. S. A. Hor, D. Geng, G. Du, Z. Liu, J. Zhang, X. Liu, Y. Zong, Nanoscale 2015, 7, 1830– 1838.
- [4] I. Katsounaros, S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin, K. J. Mayrhofer, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 102–121.
- [5] I. C. Man, H. Y. Su, F. Calle-Vallejo, H. A. Hansen, J. I. Martnez, N. G. Inoglu, J. Kitchin, T. F. Jaramillo, J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, ChemCatChem 2011, 3, 1159–1165.
- [6] a) Y. Meng, W. Song, H. Huang, Z. Ren, S.-Y. Chen, S. L. Suib, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2014, 136, 11452–11464; b) F. Cheng, Y. Su, J. Liang, Z. Tao, J. Chen, Chem. Mater. 2009, 22, 898–905; c) P.-C. Li, C.-C. Hu, H. Noda, H. Habazaki, J. Power Sources 2015, 298, 102–113.
- [7] W. Xia, A. Mahmood, Z. Liang, R. Zou, S. Guo, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 2650–2676.
- [8] a) M. Lehtimki, H. Hoffmannova, O. Boytsova, Z. Bastl, M. Busch, N. B. Halck, J. Rossmeisl, P. Krtil, Electrochim. Acta 2016, 191, 452–461; b) D. J. Davis, T. N. Lambert, J. A. Vigil, M. A. Rodriguez, M. T. Brumbach, E. N. Coker, S. J. Limmer, J. Phys. Chem. C 2014, 118, 17342–17350; c) T. N. Lambert, J. A. Vigil, S. E. White, C. J. Delker, D. J. Davis, M. Kelly, M. T. Brumbach, M. A. Rodriguez, B. S. Swartzentruber, J. Phys. Chem. C 2017, 121, 2789–2797; d) E. Pargoletti, G. Cappelletti, A. Minguzzi, S. Rondinini, M. Leoni, M. Marelli, A. Vertova, J. Power Sources 2016, 325, 116–128.
- [9] a) Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, Nat. Mater. 2011, 10, 780–786; b) Y. Liang, H. Wang, J. Zhou, Y. Li, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2012, 134, 3517–3523; c) F. Song, X. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2014, 136, 16481–16484; d) C. Li, X. Han, F. Cheng, Y. Hu, C. Chen, J. Chen, Nat. Commun 2015, 6.
- [10] a) P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, N. R. Sahraie, A. Bergmann, P. Strasser, M. Driess, ChemSusChem 2015, 8, 164–171; b) F. Cheng, J. Shen, B. Peng, Y. Pan, Z. Tao, J. Chen, Nat. Chem 2011, 3, 79–84.
- [11] a) M. P. Browne, H. Nolan, G. S. Duesberg, P. E. Colavita, M. E. Lyons, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 2408–2415; b) K. Guo, Y. Li, J. Yang, Z. Zou, X. Xue, X. Li, H. Yang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2014, 2, 1509–1514.
- [12] X. Wang, Y. Li, ChemComm 2002, 764–765.
- [13] I. D. Johnson, M. Lbke, O. Y. Wu, N. M. Makwana, G. J. Smales, H. U. Islam, R. Y. Dedigama, R. I. Gruar, C. J. Tighe, D. O. Scanlon, J. Power Sources 2016, 302, 410–418.

- [14] J. A. Darr, J. Zhang, N. M. Makwana, X. Weng, Chem. Rev 2017, 117, 11125–11238.
- [15] a) M. Lbke, J. Shin, P. Marchand, D. Brett, P. Shearing, Z. Liu, J. A. Darr, J. Mater. Chem. A 2015, 3, 22908–22914; b) M. Lbke, A. Sumboja, I. D. Johnson, D. J. Brett, P. R. Shearing, Z. Liu, J. A. Darr, Electrochim. Acta 2016, 192, 363–369; c) M. Lbke, D. Ning, C. F. Armer, D. Howard, D. J. Brett, Z. Liu, J. A. Darr, Electrochim. Acta 2017, 242, 400–407.
- [16] C. M. Welch, R. G. Compton, Anal. Bioanal. Chem 2006, 384, 601–619.
- [17] L. Shi, A. J. Naik, J. B. Goodall, C. Tighe, R. Gruar, R. Binions, I. Parkin, J. Darr, Langmuir 2013, 29, 10603–10609.
- [18] A. A. Chaudhry, J. Goodall, M. Vickers, J. K. Cockcroft, I. Rehman, J. C. Knowles, J. A. Darr, J. Mater. Chem. 2008, 18, 5900–5908.
- [19] a) W. Li, R. Zeng, Z. Sun, D. Tian, S. Dou, Sci. Rep 2014, 4, 6641; b) W. Li, X. Cui, R. Zeng, G. Du, Z. Sun, R. Zheng, S. P. Ringer, S. X. Dou, Sci. Rep 2015, 5, 8987; c) X. Hu, S. Zhu, H. Huang, J. Zhang, Y. Xu, J. Cryst. Growth 2016, 434, 7–12; d) A. Baral, D. P. Das, M. Minakshi, M. K. Ghosh, D. K. Padhi, ChemistrySelect 2016, 1, 4277–4285; e) Z. Li, Y. Ding, Y. Xiong, Q. Yang, Y. Xie, ChemComm 2005, 918–920; f) B. Li, G. Rong, Y. Xie, L. Huang, C. Feng, Inorg. Chem. 2006, 45, 6404–6410; g) H. Pan, Y. Shao, P. Yan, Y. Cheng, K. S. Han, Z. Nie, C. Wang, J. Yang, X. Li, P. Bhattacharya, Nat. Energy 2016, 1, 16039; h) Y. Duan, Z. Liu, H. Jing, Y. Zhang, S. Li, J. Mater. Chem. 2012, 22, 18291–18299.
- [20] S. Yamamoto, O. Matsuoka, I. Fukada, Y. Ashida, T. Honda, N. Yamamoto, J. Catal. 1996, 159, 401–409.
- [21] Y. Duan, Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, M. Wen, J. Mater. Chem. C 2013, 1, 1990–1994.
- [22] M. M. Sundaram, A. Biswal, D. Mitchell, R. Jones, C. Fernandez, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys 2016, 18, 4711–4720.
- [23] a) M. Chigane, M. Ishikawa, J. Electrochem. Soc 2000, 147, 2246–2251; b) A. Nelson, J. G. Reynolds, J. W. Roos, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. 2000, 18, 1072–1076.
- [24] X. Xiang, L. Zhang, H. I. Hima, F. Li, D. G. Evans, Appl. Clay Sci. 2009, 42, 405–409.
- [25] J. C. Dupin, D. Gonbeau, I. Martin-Litas, P. Vinatier, A. Levasseur, J. Electron Spectrosc. Relat. Phenom. 2001, 120, 55–65.

- [26] D. A. Shirley, Phys. Rev. B 1972, 5, 4709–4714.
- [27] D. J. Morgan, Surf. Interface Anal 2015, 47, 1072–1079.
- [28] S. H. Lee, T. W. Kim, D. H. Park, J.-H. Choy, S.-J. Hwang, N. Jiang, S.-E. Park, Y.-H. Lee, Chem. Mater 2007, 19, 5010–5017.
- [29] S. Fritsch, J. E. Post, S. L. Suib, A. Navrotsky, Chem. Mater 1998, 10, 474– 479.
- [30] D. A. Kitchaev, H. Peng, Y. Liu, J. Sun, J. P. Perdew, G. Ceder, Phys. Rev. B 2016, 93, 045132.
- [31] Y.-F. Xu, Y. Chen, G.-L. Xu, X.-R. Zhang, Z. Chen, J.-T. Li, L. Huang, K. Amine, S.-G. Sun, Nano Energy 2016, 28, 63–70.
- [32] a) X. Weng, J. K. Cockcroft, G. Hyett, M. Vickers, P. Boldrin, C. C. Tang, S. P. Thompson, J. E. Parker, J. C. Knowles, I. Rehman, J. Comb. Chem. 2009, 11, 829–834; b) R. Quesada-Cabrera, X. Weng, G. Hyett, R. J. Clark, X. Z. Wang, J. A. Darr, ACS Comb. Sci. 2013, 15, 458–463.
- [33] K. A. Stoerzinger, M. Risch, B. Han, Y. Shao-Horn, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 6021–6031.
- [34] a) A. J. Jeevagan, Y. Suzuki, T. Gunji, G. Saravanan, Y. Irii, T. Tsuda, T. Onobuchi, S. Kaneko, G. Kobayashi, F. Matsumoto, ECS Trans. 2014, 58, 9–18; b) H. Jang, A. Zahoor, J. S. Jeon, P. Kim, Y. S. Lee, K. S. Nahm, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2015, 162, A300-A307.
- [35] T. An, X. Ge, T. A. Hor, F. T. Goh, D. Geng, G. Du, Y. Zhan, Z. Liu, Y. Zong, RSC Adv. 2015, 5, 75773–75780.
- [36] Y.-H. Fang, Z.-P. Liu, J. Am. Chem. Soc 2010, 132, 18214–18222.
- [37] a) E. Davari, A. D. Johnson, A. Mittal, M. Xiong, D. G. Ivey, Electrochim. Acta 2016, 211, 735–743; b) X. Liu, M. Park, M. G. Kim, S. Gupta, X. Wang, G. Wu, J. Cho, Nano Energy 2016, 20, 315–325.
- [38] a) A. Sumboja, X. Ge, F. Goh, B. Li, D. Geng, T. Hor, Y. Zong, Z. Liu, ChemPlusChem 2015, 80, 1341–1346; b) S. Guo, J. Liu, S. Qiu, Y. Wang, X. Yan, N. Wu, S. Wang, Z. Guo, Electrochim. Acta 2016, 190, 556–565.

Submitted: October 23, 2017 Revised: February 17, 2018 Accepted: February 20, 2018