---
source: Ma 等 - 2025 - Boosting Superior Electrocatalytic OER Performance through Synergistic Effect of Fe-Doping and Latti.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 56.703s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:29:54.039544Z
---

# Boosting Superior Electrocatalytic OER Performance through Synergistic Effect of Fe-Doping and Lattice Oxygen Activation in Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> /GO

To cite this article: Linhao Ma et al 2025 J. Electrochem. Soc. 172 046509

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1149/1945-7111/adce36) for updates and enhancements.

# You may also like

- [First-principles insight into Li and Na ion](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/28/7/078201) [storage in graphene oxide](/article/10.1088/1674-1056/28/7/078201) Shu-Ying Zhong, , Jing Shi et al. -
- [Two-dimensional derivatives obtained by](/article/10.1088/2053-1583/aceb04) [oxidation of MXene for simulating the](/article/10.1088/2053-1583/aceb04) [oxidative properties of natural enzymes](/article/10.1088/2053-1583/aceb04) Qiang Peng, Nian Jiang, Ling Qian et al. -
- [Low Temperature Sulfur Deposition for](/article/10.1149/2.1051809jes) [High-Performance Lithium/Sulfur Cells](/article/10.1149/2.1051809jes) Ayako Kawase, Don Donghyeok Han and Elton J. Cairns -

Journal of The Electrochemical Society, 2025 172 046509 1945-7111/2025/172(4)/046509/11/\$40.00 © 2025 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited. All rights, including for text and data mining, Al training, and similar technologies, are reserved.

# **Boosting Superior Electrocatalytic OER Performance through** Synergistic Effect of Fe-Doping and Lattice Oxygen Activation in Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO

Linhao Ma,<sup>1,=</sup> Junjie Zhao,<sup>1,=</sup> Ming Zhang,<sup>1,2</sup> Yang Meng,<sup>2</sup> Yuqing Liu,<sup>1</sup> and Ruzhi Wang<sup>1</sup>

<sup>1</sup>College of Materials Science and Engineering, Beijing University of Technology, Beijing 100124, People's Republic of

The oxygen evolution reaction (OER), a key component of water splitting, is considered a promising technology for large-scale energy storage. Nevertheless, the sluggish kinetics and high costs of precious metal-based electrocatalysts like RuO<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub> limit its applications. This work focuses on developing non-precious metal-based electrocatalysts with low overpotential, high current density, and durability. Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composites were successfully synthesized via a straightforward one-step solvothermal technique. The NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite exhibits uniform growth and distribution of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> onto GO sheets, and a high specific surface area of 123.6 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, leading to superior OER activity with an overpotential of 250 mV at j = 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. This represents a significant improvement over pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (320 mV) and IrO<sub>2</sub> (368 mV). NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO also demonstrates good electrochemical stability, maintaining nearly unchanged current density for more than 48 h. Furthermore, validation experiments and density functional theory calculations reveal that the lattice-oxygen-mediated mechanism, instead of the traditional absorbate evolution mechanism, plays a crucial role in the OER process for both Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composites. Overall, our findings highlight NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO as a promising candidate for efficient and cost-effective OER electrocatalysts.

© 2025 The Electrochemical Society ("ECS"). Published on behalf of ECS by IOP Publishing Limited. All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved. [DOI: 10.1149/1945-7111/adce36]

Manuscript submitted October 12, 2024; revised manuscript received March 25, 2025. Published April 30, 2025.

Supplementary material for this article is available online

The rapid expansion of the global population, coupled with the continuous consumption of fossil fuels, has underscored the escalating worldwide interest in the evolution of sustainable and environmentally friendly energy storage and conversion technologies.<sup>1,2</sup> Water splitting, a highly anticipated energy storage technology, holds the key to an energy revolution owing to its capability of efficiently extracting hydrogen from abundant, costeffective, and readily available water sources at a low cost.<sup>3,4</sup> In principle, water splitting consists of two half-reactions in the alkaline electrolyzer, such as oxygen release at anode [40H]  $O_2(g) + 2H_2O + 4e^-$  and hydrogen releases at cathode [4H<sub>2</sub>O +  $4e^- \rightarrow 2H_2(g) + 4OH^-$ ]. The sluggish kinetics and complex multistep electron-proton transfer process of the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), accounting for approximately 90% of the total energy input,<sup>5</sup> pose significant challenges to achieving highly efficient overall water splitting. Currently, precious metal oxide catalysts like RuO2 and IrO2 are esteemed for their superior catalytic activity in OER. Unfortunately, their scarcity, high costs, and limited stability severely hinder their large-scale applications.<sup>6,7</sup> To overcome these challenges, it is essential to concentrate efforts on developing catalysts crafted from Earth-abundant non-precious metal elements that exhibit minimal overpotential, ample current density, exceptional catalytic activity, remarkable durability, and cost-effectiveness.8,9

Among numerous promising alternatives, transition metal-based compounds with low cost and resource abundance have garnered substantial attention as potential OER catalysts capable of replacing precious metal catalysts. 10-12 Specifically, transition metal hydroxides have attracted significant attention due to their excellent covalency, narrow bandgaps, and outstanding water redox properties, collectively bolstering their catalytic efficiency. Ni(OH)2, a well-studied transition metal hydroxide electrode material, stands out as a promising electrocatalyst for OER, attributed to its superior catalytic performance, cost-effectiveness, and low toxicity. <sup>13</sup> For example, Gao et al. reported nanosized  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, exhibiting an overpotential of 331 mV at j=10 mA cm<sup>-2.14</sup> Anantharaj and co-

Equal Contribution. <sup>z</sup>E-mail: mzhang@bjut.edu.cn authors successfully prepared the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets with overpotential of 300 mV at j=10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. <sup>15</sup> Nevertheless, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> suffers from its limited electrical conductivity and poor cycling stability, weakening its electrochemical performance and then restricting its widespread commercialization. <sup>16</sup> Fortunately, the incorporation of transition metal compound with conductive carbon nanomaterials has emerged as an effective strategy to effectively enhance its catalytic activity by improving conductivity and facilitating the uniform dispersion of active sites. <sup>17–20</sup> In particular, graphene oxide (GO) has been extensively explored as a feasible electrode material for supercapacitors due to its colossal specific surface area, exceptional electrical conductivity, and remarkable mechanical and chemical stability. 21,22 Nonetheless, previous studies on Ni(OH)2-GO composites suffer from inadequate OER catalytic activity, which fails to meet application demands.<sup>23</sup> Intriguingly, Goldsmith et al. demonstrated that Fe doping can effectively enhance the catalytic activity of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> by modifying its electronic structure.<sup>24</sup> Therefore, exploring the synergistic benefits of both composites and doping presents a promising strategy to further optimize the catalytic performance.

In this work, we successfully synthesized the highly efficient OER electrocatalysts, namely NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, via a straightforward one-step solvothermal approach that incorporates NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> or Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> onto GO. Pure microspherical Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> exhibits unsatisfied catalytic properties. However, if loading Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> particles onto the layered GO by the solvothermal synthesis, the Ni(OH)2/GO composite demonstrates significantly enhanced catalytic performance, manifesting an overpotential of 286 mV at a current density  $j = 10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ —notably lower than those of standalone Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (320 mV) and IrO<sub>2</sub> (368 mV). Furthermore, as expected, NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite achieves even more superior catalytic performance, benefiting from the synergistic optimization stemming from the Fe doping and the formation of composites, which exhibits the lowest overpotential of 250 mV at i  $= 10 \,\mathrm{mA \, cm^{-2}}$  among all materials concerned in this work. Additionally, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite can maintain excellent stability and high activity for over 48 h. Consequently, this exceptional composite emerges as a promising alternative to precious metal oxide-based catalysts for OER. Moreover, by means of DFT calculations and electrochemical measurements, this work elucidates

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup>Research Institute of Technology Shougang group CO., Ltd, Beijing 100041, People's Republic of China

that both NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO composites favor a novel OER mechanism known as the lattice oxygen-mediated mechanism (LOM) over the conventional absorptive evolution mechanism (AEM). This preference facilitates the efficient overcoming of the thermodynamic challenges inherent in AEM, leading to enhanced intrinsic catalytic activity. Consequently, these findings represent a more competitive and promising approach for the development of advanced OER electrocatalysts.

#### **Experimental**

Synthesis of NiFe(OH),/GO composites.—The NiFe(OH),/GO composites with varying Ni-Fe ratios synthesized using a straightforward and efficient one-step solvothermal method, as illustrated in Fig. 1. Nickel (II) nitrate hexahydrate [Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O] in amounts of 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, and 4.0 g was dissolved in 50 mL of N,Ndimethylformamide (DMF) along with a fixed 1.4 g of iron (III) nitrate nonahydrate [Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·9H<sub>2</sub>O] at ambient temperature, under vigorous magnetic stirring. Following this, 50 mg of graphene oxide (GO) was added, and the solution was sonicated for one hour to ensure homogeneous dispersion. The mixture was then carefully transferred into a Teflon-lined autoclave, which was securely sealed and placed in a preheated electric oven at 180 °C for 10 h. After the reaction, the autoclave was removed from the oven and allowed to cool down to room temperature. The obtained powder was thoroughly washed with deionized water and dried at 80 °C. The final samples were designated as NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO-1, NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO-2, NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO-3, and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO-4. Additionally, pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO were synthesized using the same protocol for comparison.

Characterization.—The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of all samples were collected by using a Shimadzu XRD-7000 diffract-ometer with Cu-K $\alpha$  radiation. To gain insight into the compositional properties and chemical states, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and EDX techniques were implemented. For the morphology and the microstructure examinations, a scanning electron microscope (SEM) model ZEISS Gemini 300 was utilized, alongside transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) analyses, performed using a JEM-F200 instrument, providing detailed visualization of the sample feature. The specific

surface areas of the samples were determined using a Micromeritics ASAP 2460 nitrogen adsorption instrument (USA), employing well-established Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) method.

*Electrochemical measurements.*—The CHI660E electrochemical workstation (CHI Instruments, CHN) was utilized for conducting a range of electrochemical measurements, including linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and chronoamperometry. A standard three-electrode system was employed, comprising a graphite electrode (approximately 6 mm in diameter) as the working electrode, a Hg/HgO electrode filled with a 1.0 M KOH solution as the reference electrode, and carbon cloth (1 cm × 0.5 cm) as the counter electrode.

During the experiment, a  $1.0\,M$  KOH solution saturated with  $O_2$  was employed as the electrolyte at room temperature. The potentials measured in this work were referenced to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the Nernst equation:

$$E(RHE) = E(Hg/HgO) + 0.098 + 0.059pH$$
 [1]

To prepare the ink, 5 mg of as-prepared catalyst powder was dispersed into 1.0 ml mixed solution, consisting of 490  $\mu$ l of deionized water, 490  $\mu$ l of ethanol and 20  $\mu$ l of Nafion solution. The mixture was then ultrasonicated to form a homogeneous ink. Subsequently, the uniform suspension ink was coated on the surface of the working electrode at a density of approximately 0.5 mg cm $^{-2}$ . The catalyst film was then dried at room temperature.

The LSV curves were conducted at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, and all polarization curves were corrected using 90% iR-compensation. EIS was performed at an overpotential of  $10\,\mathrm{mA\,cm^{-2}}$  across a frequency range of  $0.1\text{--}100\,\mathrm{kHz}$ , with an amplitude of 5 mV. The stability of the samples was assessed through chronopotentiometry measurements at a constant current density of  $10\,\mathrm{mA\,cm^{-2}}$ , without iR compensation. The corresponding test were conducted three times estimate the experimental error.

*Calculation method.*—All calculations were conducted using first-principles density functional theory (DFT), implemented in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP), and employing the projector augmented wave (PAW) method.<sup>25</sup> To accurately describe the exchange-correlation functional, the generalized gradient

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Synthesis procedure of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite catalyst.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** XRD patterns of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and GO samples.

approximation (GGA) with the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) functional was utilized. To account for long-range van der Waals (vdW) interactions, which are essential in systems with layered structures such as graphene oxide (GO), the DFT-D3 method with Becke-Johnson damping was employed. This approach has been shown to effectively capture vdW interactions. The cutoff energy was set to 550 eV for all calculations to ensure the convergence and accuracy of the results. The Brillouin zone was sampled using a  $5 \times 5 \times 1$  grid of k-points. Geometry optimizations were conducted with energy and force convergence criteria of less than  $10^{-4}$  eV and 0.01 eV Å, respectively.

A graphene oxide (GO) monolayer model with 32 carbon and 4 oxygen atoms was constructed by randomly adding epoxy groups to the graphene basal plane according to the widely accepted Lerf-Klinowski rules.<sup>29</sup> In this GO structure, each oxygen atom is bonded to two carbon atoms by breaking the double bonds, while the carbon

rings remain intact. NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> were placed as adsorbates on the GO and allowed to move during geometry optimizations. Notably, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> model was created by substituting Fe at the Ni site. A vacuum spacing of 20 Å was included in the c-direction to prevent periodic image interactions.

### Results and Discussion

Initially, an integrated electrochemical measurement and EDX characterization were conducted to screen out the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite possessing the optimal Ni-Fe ratio, which manifested the best electrocatalytic activity. As illustrated in Fig. S1a, LSV measurements reveals that NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO-3 exhibits the lowest overpotential of 250 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, indicating superior electrocatalytic performance among all NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composites. EDX analysis (Fig. S2) verifies that the optimal Ni-Fe ratio within the studied concentration range is approximately 2.2:1. Therefore, in the subsequent work, we will focus on this sample, which will be referred to NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO for convenience in the following text.

The crystal structure was characterized using XRD analysis. Figure 2 displays the diffraction patterns of the GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO samples. Five reflections corresponding to the crystallographic planes of (003), (006), (101), (012), and (110) are observed in the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO samples, indicating a hexagonal configuration of single phase  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (JCPD NO. 38–0715). A sharp peak around 11.0° related to the (001) plane is presented in the XRD pattern of GO sample, which agrees well with previous report.<sup>32</sup> Notably, the (003) plane of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> overlaps with the (001) plane of GO.

The surface morphology of the as-synthesized GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO samples was characterized using SEM. Figure 3a depicts the micrographs of GO, suggesting that it was well-exfoliated, resulting in fragmented thin sheets with noticeable wrinkles. This morphology provides a large specific surface area, which is advantageous for enhancing catalytic activity. As displayed in Fig. 3b, a microsphere assembled from nanosheets with an average diameter of approximately  $5\sim6~\mu m$  can be observed for the pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. These spheres form as a result of the dissolution of Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, which releases Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions into the solution. The H<sub>2</sub>O molecules from hydrate Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)·6H<sub>2</sub>O become free, supplying OH<sup>-</sup> ions that facilitate the growth of thin Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets.

<span id="page-3-1"></span>Figure 3. SEM images of (a) GO, (b) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, (c) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, and (d) NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO.

During the reaction, thin nanosheets of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> self-assemble via Ostwald ripening, leading to the formation of microspheres to minimize the surface energy. Figures 3c and 3d reveal that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> particles are uniformly grown on GO sheets, thereby confirming the formation of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO heterostructures. The diameter of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> particles in the composites ranges from approximately 300 to 500 nm, which is significantly smaller than that of pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. This suggests that the incorporation of GO prevents the growth of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> particles, leading to a reduction in particle size and the formation of irregularly shaped particles rather than distinct microspheres.

TEM and HRTEM were employed to further investigate the microstructure of the as-prepared Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composites, as well as to assess the homogeneity and dispersion of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> or NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> on the GO. As illustrated in Figs. 4a and 4c, GO exhibits a highly transparent and ultrathin lamellar morphology. Additionally, the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> particles are clearly visible on the microsurface of GO (indicated by the dark regions), suggesting that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> are predominantly homogeneously distributed across the GO surface, resulting in the formation of composite materials. Figures 4b and 4d present the HRTEM images showing enlarged views of the edges of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH), respectively. The images reveal highly parallel lattice fringes (as indicated in the figures) for both Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> within the corresponding composites. The measured 10fold lattice spacings are approximately 2.42 nm for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and 2.59 nm for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>, respectively. This indicates that the corresponding lattice spacings are approximately  $0.242\,\mathrm{nm}$  for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and  $0.259\,\mathrm{nm}$  for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>, which can be indexed to the (012) atomic planes. Furthermore, the contact boundary between Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> or NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> and GO can be clearly observed, validating the successful formation of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO heterojunctions through surface engineering.

Additionally, element mapping was performed using EDX analysis to further assess the dispersion of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> or NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> on the GO within the corresponding composites. Figures 5a and 5e are the TEM images for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> composites, respectively. Figures 5b to 5d and 5f to 5i display the corresponding EDX maps for Ni, C, O, and Fe in the corresponding Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> samples, respectively. This analysis strongly confirms the successful synthesis of both NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO composites via the solvothermal method.

The specific surface area, regarded as a vital parameter for OER electrocatalysis, was assessed for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite using the Nitrogen physisorption technique. The nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherm plot presented in Fig. 6a exhibits a type IV behavior characterized by H3 hysteresis loops, demonstrating the presence of mesopores in NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO. Consequently, the specific surface area, evaluated using the BET method, yields 123.6 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup> for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO. The pore size of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, determined using the Barrett–Joyner–Halenda (BJH) method, is approximately 3.06 nm, which further corroborates the formation of a mesoporous structure.

The covalent bonds and surface chemistry of the as-prepared NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO samples were examined through XPS analysis. As

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 4. TEM images of (a) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and (c) NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO; HRTEM image of (b) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and (d) NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 5. EDX elemental mapping images of  $(a-d) Ni(OH)_2/GO$  and  $(e-i) NiFe(OH)_x/GO$ .

shown in Fig. 6b, the wide-scan XPS spectrum of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO demonstrates the unambiguous presence of C, O, Ni, and Fe elements within the composite, validating the successful incorporation of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> onto the GO surface. Furthermore, the detailed C 1 s core-level spectrum (Fig. 6c) displays distinct binding energy peaks positioned at 284.7, 285.8, 288.3, and 289.9 eV, respectively attributed to C=C/C-C bonds (indicative of the graphene/graphite component), C-O, C=O, and O-C=O oxide components/functional groups. 34,35 This spectral signature provides conclusive evidence of the presence of GO within the composite. Figure 6d presents the O 1 s core-level spectrum, with fitted peaks at 529.6, 530.8, and 532.1 eV, corresponding to metal-oxygen bonds, oxygen within OH<sup>-</sup> groups, and GO, respectively, as reported in.<sup>36</sup> Notably, the area of the peak associated with the metal-oxygen bond (530.8 eV) significantly surpasses those of the other two peaks (529.6 and 532.1 eV), hinting at the pivotal role of lattice oxygen in the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) process. Meanwhile, Fig. 6e displays the Ni 2p core-level spectrum, featuring two distinct signals at 855.6 and 873.6 eV, accompanied by two satellite peaks at 861.6 eV and 879.5 eV. These spectral features are in excellent agreement with Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and Ni  $2p_{1/2}$ , assigned to characteristic of Ni<sup>3+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions

bonded to O and OH groups in Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiOOH, respectively.<sup>37</sup> Moreover, Fig. 6f depicts the Fe 2p core level spectrum, prominently featuring two dominant peaks centered at 711.3 and 724.1 eV, respectively corresponding to the Fe  $2p_{3/2}$  and Fe  $2p_{1/2}$  spin-orbit peaks.<sup>38</sup> Additionally, it is worth noting that two distinct peaks, centered at 706.0 and 718.9 eV, correspond to Fe  $2p_{3/2}$  and Fe  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively. These peaks are assigned to characteristic of the Fe<sup>o</sup> state. The presence of Fe° species in NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite could be attributed to the reducing effect introduced by DMF organic solvent, as evidenced in the literatures. 39-42 These findings substantiate the successful synthesis of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite, characterized by the presence of appropriate chemical functional groups and bonding configurations. Nonetheless, a comprehensive understanding of the electrochemical properties of this catalyst remains elusive, emphasizing the necessity for further electrochemical measurements to unravel its full potential.

Generally, electrocatalysts that exhibit reduced overpotential, heightened current density, and minimal resistance are highly coveted for a broad spectrum of electrochemical applications. For the purpose of this investigation, we conducted electrochemical measurements on all samples in a 1 M KOH solution at room temperature. Firstly, the sensitivity of catalytic performance to compositional variations is evaluated. As shown in Figs. S1a and S1b in Supporting Information, at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the un-doped sample, Ni(OH)2/GO, exhibits the highest overpotential of 286 mV. In contrast, the Fe-doped samples show little variation in overpotential with changes in the Ni/Fe ratio, ranging from 250 to 258 mV — reflecting a relative change of no more than 3.2% compared to NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO. However, at a higher current density of 50 mA cm $^{-2}$ , the influence of the Ni-Fe ratio on overpotential becomes more significant, varying from 300 to 347 mV and resulting in a maximum relative change of approximately 15.7% compared to NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO. This emphasizes the significance of optimizing the composition for achieving the best performance in catalysts.

Figure 7a shows the LSV curves for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, benchmark precious metal catalyst IrO<sub>2</sub>, and GO. It is worth noting that the electrochemical measurement results for pure GO are not included in Fig. 7, as pure GO demonstrates negligible catalytic performance, with a current density of only 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an overpotential of 620 mV (Fig. S3). Figure 7b presents the corresponding overpotential  $(\eta)$  derived from Fig. 7a. Notably, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite exhibits the utmost catalytic activity for the oxygen evolution reaction, showcasing an impressive overpotential of just 250 mV at  $j = 10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ , underscoring its exceptional performance. This overpotential is significantly lower than those recorded for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO (286 mV), bare Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (320 mV), and IrO<sub>2</sub> (368 mV), demonstrating the superiority of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO as an OER catalyst. The improved OER performance can be attributed to the effective dispersion of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> on the GO support. This prevents the agglomeration of NiFe(OH)x and Ni(OH)2 microspheres, maximizing the accessibility and exposure of active sites. Consequently, OH ion adsorption is facilitated, and the resistance for electron transfer is reduced, resulting in a substantial enhancement in electrocatalytic activity for OER. Additionally, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite benefits from a synergistic interaction between Ni and Fe, which finely tunes the electronic properties, fostering the adsorption of OER intermediates and thereby further elevating the OER

The Tafel slope serves as a key metric for evaluating the intrinsic kinetic characteristics of the OER catalyst, which can be determined in accordance with the Tafel formula,

$$\eta = a + b \cdot logj \tag{2}$$

where  $\eta$  represents overpotential, b denotes the Tafel slope, j is the current density, and a is the Tafel constant. As depicted in Fig. 7c, the Tafel plots distinctly reveal that NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO exhibits a

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 6. (a)  $N_2$  adsorption-desorption isotherms of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO catalysts; (b) XPS spectra of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO; and high-resolution XPS spectra of (c) C 1 s, (d) O 1 s, (e) Ni 2p and (f) Fe 2p for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO.

notably lower Tafel slope of 74.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in comparison to its counterparts, indicative of accelerated OER kinetics. Table I presents a comparative analysis of the catalytic performance compared Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO with previous related works. Notably, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO catalyst demonstrates comparable or even superior performance, emerging as a promising contender for OER catalyst.

Additionally, it is important to note that the electrocatalytic performance mentioned above was achieved using a small-sized electrode (6 mm) at a low current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. However, the catalytic performance of the catalyst in industrial water-splitting electrolysis cells, which typically operate at much higher current densities, is crucial for practical applications. Thus, we further conducted a detailed comparison of the catalytic performance at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> between NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO and the findings reported in

literatures. As depicted in Table S1 in Supporting Information, NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite still emerges as a highly competitive catalyst even at this relatively high current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. We anticipate that the experimental validation of the catalytic performance of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO in industrial water-splitting electrolysis cells will be implemented in the near future.

To devolve deeper into the OER kinetic characteristic, we performed EIS at open circuit potential, spanning a frequency range from  $10^{-1}$  to  $10^{5}$  Hz. Figure 7d displays all EIS plots for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub>, where a distinct pattern resembling the standard Nyquist curve is observed. This pattern comprises a semicircle in the high-frequency range and a straight line in the low-frequency range, respectively.<sup>53,54</sup> It is well known that the radius of the semicircle in the high frequency region corresponds directly to the charge transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ) of the

<span id="page-7-1"></span><span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 7. (a) LSV curves, (b) overpotential, (c) Tafel plots, (d) EIS, (e) the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ) measurements and (f) the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub>.

catalyst during the OER process, with a smaller radius indicative of lower resistance. As illustrated in Fig. 7d, it is evident that all EIS data can be satisfactorily fitted in accordance with the equivalent circuit presented in the inset of Fig. 7d. Notably, the  $R_{\rm ct}$  value of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO is determined to be 3.5  $\Omega$ , which is significantly lower than that of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO at 8.2  $\Omega$ , Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 8.4  $\Omega$ , and IrO<sub>2</sub> at 10.9  $\Omega$ . This demonstrates that NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO exhibits significantly enhanced conductivity and superior charge transfer kinetics

compared to all other samples, aligning with the results from the LSV and Tafel slope analyses. These findings underscore the remarkable OER kinetics and superior charge transport capability of the NiFe(OH) $_x$ /GO electrocatalyst, positioning it favorably among the evaluated materials.

What's more, electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) is another key parameter in assessing the performance of OER catalysts, as defined in, 55

<span id="page-8-0"></span>

| Table I. Comparison of the catalytic activity for | · OER in alkaline environment | between Ni(OH) <sub>2</sub> /GO, | NiFe(OH) <sub>x</sub> /GO and previously reported | ĺ |
|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|---|
| representative catalysts.                         |                               |                                  |                                                   |   |

| Catalyst                              | Synthesis method            | Electrolyte | $\eta_{10}~(\mathrm{mV})$ | Tafel slope (mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ) | References |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------------------|-------------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------|------------|
| NiFe(OH) <sub>x</sub> /GO             | solvothermal                | 1 M KOH     | 250                       | 74.1                                | This work  |
| Ni(OH) <sub>x</sub> /GO               | solvothermal                | 1 M KOH     | 286                       | 78.9                                | This work  |
| Co <sub>3</sub> S <sub>4</sub> /S-rGO | high-temperature annealing  | 1 M KOH     | 341                       | 103.0                               | 43         |
| Co-Ru@RuO <sub>x</sub> /NCN           | pyrolysis                   | 1 M KOH     | 270                       | 67.0                                | 44         |
| CMSO@rGO                              | vacuum annealing            | 1 M KOH     | 259                       | 87.0                                | 45         |
| $V_2CT_x/Ag-NPs$                      | surface modification        | 1 M KOH     | 310                       | 62.0                                | 46         |
| CoFe/NPC                              | pyrolysis                   | 1 M KOH     | 318                       | 45.3                                | 47         |
| FeNi SAs/NC                           | coprecipitation             | 1 M KOH     | 270                       | 54.7                                | 48         |
| CoNiFeO <sub>x</sub> -NC              | ion-exchange                | 1 M KOH     | 350                       | 80.0                                | 49         |
| CoFe-N-C                              | pyrolysis                   | 1 M KOH     | 360                       | 67.7                                | 50         |
| Cu@CoP                                | electrochemically deposited | 1 M KOH     | 270                       | 77.2                                | 51         |
| Fe-NG                                 | pyrolysis                   | 0.1 M KOH   | 390                       | 71.3                                | 52         |

$$ECSA = \frac{C_{dl}}{C_s}$$
 [3]

where  $C_s$  presents the specific capacitance of a smooth and planar electrode measured in the same experimental conditions. The value of  $C_s$  is typically set at 0.040 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> based on established values for metal electrodes.<sup>56</sup> The electrochemical double-layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$ , a measure of the interface between the catalyst and the solution, is determined by conducting cyclic voltammetry (CV) experiments at various scan rates, ranging from 20 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> Figure 7e depicts the  $C_{dl}$  results for various samples, demonstrating that the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite exhibits the highest  $C_{dl}$  value of  $3.20 \text{ mF cm}^{-2}$ , outperforming Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO (2.02 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (1.94 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), and IrO<sub>2</sub> (1.43 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). Applying Eq. 3, the corresponding ECSA values are calculated as 80.00 cm<sup>2</sup> for  $NiFe(OH)_x/GO$ ,  $50.50 \text{ cm}^2$  for  $Ni(OH)_2/GO$ ,  $48.50 \text{ cm}^2$  for  $Ni(OH)_2$ , and 37.75 cm<sup>2</sup> for IrO<sub>2</sub>, respectively. The enhanced  $C_{dl}$ and ECSA of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO can be attributed to two factors: the incorporation of Fe atoms, which modifies the catalytic activity, and the presence of a wide and thick layer of GO on the electrode surface. This GO layer not only provides a larger electrochemical reaction area but also facilitates the OER process by enhancing charge transfer and conductivity. Thus, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO emerges as a promising OER catalyst with superior performance characteristics.

When evaluating OER catalysts, long-term stability is a critical factor. To assess this, we conducted a test measuring the change in current density after a continuous 20- and 48 h operations at a constant voltage, with an initial current density set at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> As depicted in Figs. 8 and S4 in Supporting Information, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO catalyst maintains a nearly constant current density throughout the measurement period, demonstrating the highest stability among all samples. Following closely are Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalysts, while the noble metal catalyst IrO<sub>2</sub> exhibits the lowest stability. These findings suggest that the dispersion of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> onto GO can significantly enhance stability, with further improvements achieved through Fe doping. Additionally, Fig. 8 reveals that, at the onset of the chronoamperometry measurements, the current density for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO catalysts exhibits a slight increase over time. This increase is attributed to the surface reconstruction, which transforms Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> into NiOOH.<sup>57–6</sup>

After the 48 h stability test, the structure and morphology of the  $NiFe(OH)_x/GO$  composite were re-evaluated using XRD and TEM techniques. As shown in Fig. S5, the broadening of the diffraction peaks and the reduced signal-to-noise ratio clearly indicates a decrease in crystallinity following the stability test. Three diffraction peaks are detected. For the peak near  $12^\circ$ , apart from a certain extent of broadening, a shoulder peak can be also observed, which was attributed to the (003) crystal plane of NiOOH, hinting at potential

<span id="page-8-1"></span>**Figure 8.** Chronoamperometry measurements at constant potential for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub>.

surface reconstruction. The remaining two reflections correspond to the (012) and (110) planes of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, consistent with the XRD results (Fig. 2) obtained prior to the stability test. TEM analysis (Fig. S6) confirms that the morphological features are well-preserved after the 48 h test, and EDS elemental mapping demonstrates the homogeneous distribution of Ni, Fe, and O within the composite. Therefore, these experiments, along with the 48 h chronoamperometry measurements, demonstrate the good cycling stability of the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite. While the results of the 48 h stability test are promising, we recognize that a longer-term stability test—capable of inducing active degradation or loss in samples—along with an investigation into the underlying mechanisms, will yield more comprehensive insights and provide valuable references for practical application, and the corresponding study will proceed in the near future.

Furthermore, we studied the reaction mechanisms of  $Ni(OH)_2/OO$  and  $NiFe(OH)_x/OO$  to elucidate their high catalytic performance. In the proposed LOM route, direct O–O formation occurs through the coupling of lattice oxygen with \*O, circumventing the intermediate adsorption interactions involved in the AEM. This results in the generation of superperoxo-like  $(O_2^{-1})$  and peroxo-like  $(O_2^{-1})$  negative species, which do not contribute to the traditional the AEM mechanism. Therefore, if we can confirm that these negative species are significantly involved in the OER, it would indicate the participation of the LOM mechanism in the overall OER process. To explore this further, we introduced 1,4-

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 9. (a) Schematic of AEM pathway and LOM; LSV curve before and after joining BQ of (b) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and (c) NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO; free energy diagram of AEM and LOM pathway of (d) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and (e) NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO.

Benzoquinone (BQ) as a sacrificial agent to consume the  ${\rm O}^{2-}$  and  ${\rm O_2}^{2-}$  species associated with the LOM during the OER. A substantial decrease in electrocatalytic activity would be anticipated if the LOM mechanism indeed plays an important role in the OER. As shown in Figs. 9b and 9c, the OER activity of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO declines significantly upon the addition of 0.01 M BQ into 1 M KOH. Specifically, the OER overpotential for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO drops to 334 mV, while for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, it decreases to 289 mV. This observation provides indirect evidence in support of the involvement of the LOM mechanism in the OER process.

To gain a deeper understanding of the relationship between electronic properties and the OER catalytic mechanism, we conducted first-principles calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). Typically, the active descriptor for AEM involves metal cations, which participate in four concerted proton-electron transfer reactions (\*OH, \*O, and \*OOH) during the OER process. 63 Regarding LOM, oxygen vacancies are generated through the evolution of surface oxygen-containing molecules. These vacancies are subsequently filled by hydroxide ions from the electrolyte or by oxygen atoms diffusing from the bulk to the surface, 64 indicating that the surface of the catalyst undergoes dynamic changes during OER, 65 as illustrated in Fig. 9a. To gain an in-depth understanding of the mechanism, we determined the reaction Gibbs free energies for each step across various pathways for Ni(OH)2/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO using DFT calculations. The overpotential for the rate-determining step in the LOM pathway is 0.45 V for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and 0.41 V for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO. In contrast, the AEM pathway exhibits higher overpotential values of 1.05 V and 0.55 V for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO, respectively. These results indicate a preference for Ni(OH)2/GO and NiFe(OH)x/GO to follow the LOM mechanism rather than the AEM pathway.

Chemical reactions involve the breaking of chemical bonds in reactants and the formation of new bonds in products, fundamentally driven by electronic redistribution. The role of the catalyst is to guide the redistribution of electrons purposefully. Consequently, catalytic activity can be predicted based on the intrinsic electronic characteristics of the catalyst and active metal atoms. To investigate the activity origin of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>, we calculated the total and local density of states (TDOS and LDOS) for NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, both with and without OH adsorption. As shown in

Figs. 10a and 10c, although no significant differences of the total DOS of NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> can be observed compared to that of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Fe doping increases the density of states around the Fermi level in NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>, enhancing electrical conductivity and facilitating charge transfer during electrochemical reactions. After OH adsorption, the Ni 3 d and Fe 3 d states in NiFe(OH), interact more effectively with the O 2p states of \*OH across a broad energy range compared to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. This stronger interaction suggests that intermediates like OH can be more effectively adsorbed and activated by NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>, indicating superior activity compared to Ni(OH)2, as supported by previous electrochemical measurements. Moreover, previous studies have demonstrated that when intermediates like OH are adsorbed on catalyst active sites, the initial step involves electron transfer from the bonding orbitals of the intermediates to the active atoms, followed by transfer from the active atoms to the antibonding orbitals of the intermediates.<sup>66</sup> As illustrated in Figs. 10b and 10d, the LDOS of OH on Ni(OH)2 shifts towards lower energies. with more antibonding orbitals below the Fermi level. This shift facilitates more electron transfer from active metal atoms to the antibonding orbitals of OH, enhancing the activation of OH species. Besides, studies by Kiefer et al.<sup>67</sup> and Li et al.<sup>68</sup> highlighted the importance of the localized magnetic moment of active metal atoms and their spin-unpaired electrons in the adsorption and activation of small molecules. Based on Figs. 10a and 10c, the magnetic moment of Ni increases from 0.704  $\mu_B$  to 1.183  $\mu_B$  through Fe-doping, demonstrating enhanced spin polarization promotes the adsorption and activation of OH species.

### Conclusions

In summary, we present a straightforward strategy for designing and synthesizing efficient and cost-effective electrocatalysts. Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO were successfully prepared using an one-step solvothermal method. The GO sheets provides an ideal support for the uniform growth of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub> particles to form Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/GO and NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO heterojunctions. This structural arrangement facilitates the exposure of active sites within the multilayer nanosheets, enhances charge transfer, and boosts the catalytic potential of metal hydroxides for OER. Consequently, the NiFe(OH)<sub>x</sub>/GO composite demonstrates superior OER catalytic activity, achieving a significantly reduced overpotential of 250 mV

<span id="page-10-25"></span>Figure 10. TDOS and LDOS for NiFe(OH)x and Ni(OH)2 without (a and c) and with (b and d) OH adsorption.

at j = 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , compared to pure Ni(OH)2 (320 mV) and the state-of-art OER catalyst IrO2 (368 mV). Furthermore, it is founded that Ni(OH)2/GO and NiFe(OH)x/GO heterojunctions undergo LOM instead of AEM for OER, as confirmed by both sacrificial agent validation experiments and DFT calculations. The remarkable catalytic activity and stability of NiFe(OH)x/GO can be primarily attributed to the synergistic effect arising from the formation of heterojunctions and the incorporation of Fe into nickel hydroxide. This study may provide a simple approach for discovering new nonprecious metal-based OER electrocatalysts, aiming for outstanding performance, remarkable durability, and cost-effectiveness.

## Acknowledgments

Authors sincerely thank Dr X. H. Ju for her assistance of TEM and SEM experiments. This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2018YFB0703500). The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# ORCID

Ming Zhang <https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2430-7739>

## References

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>1. S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Sakthikumar, K. Karthick, S. Mishra, and S. Kundu, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b02479), 6, 8069 (2016).
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>2. J. S. Kim, B. Kim, H. Kim, and K. Kang, [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201702774), 8, 1702774 (2018).
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>3. C. Lin et al., [Nat. Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00703-0), 4, 1012 (2021).
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>4. J. Zhou, L. Zhang, Y. C. Huang, C. L. Dong, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, L. H. Tjeng, and Z. Hu, [Nat. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-15925-2), 11, 1984 (2020).
- <span id="page-10-4"></span>5. B. You and Y. Sun, [Acc. Chem. Res.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00002), 51, 1571 (2018).
- <span id="page-10-5"></span>6. Y. Pan et al., [Nat. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-15873-x), 11, 2002 (2020).

- <span id="page-10-6"></span>7. X. Wang, Z. Pan, X. Chu, K. Huang, Y. Cong, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, L. Li, G. Li, and S. Feng, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201905543), 58, 11720 (2019).
- <span id="page-10-7"></span>8. M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. Zhang, L. Wang, J. J. Zou, and Z. L. Wang, [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.05.022) [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.05.022), 37, 136 (2017).
- <span id="page-10-8"></span>9. D. Yan, Y. Li, J. Huo, R. Chen, L. Dai, and S. Wang, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201606459), 29, 1606459 (2017).
- <span id="page-10-9"></span>10. K. Cysewska, M. Łapiński, M. Zając, J. Karczewski, P. Jasiński, and S. Molin, [Beilstein J. Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.3762/bjnano.14.34), 14, 420 (2023).
- 11. C. Huang, Y. Zhong, J. Chen, J. Li, W. Zhang, J. Zhou, Y. Zhang, L. Yu, and Y. Yu, [Chem. Eng. J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.126304), 403, 126304 (2021).
- <span id="page-10-10"></span>12. Y. Liu, D. Zhou, T. Deng, G. He, A. Chen, X. Sun, Y. Yang, and P. Miao, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202101898) [Sus. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202101898), 14, 5359 (2021).
- <span id="page-10-11"></span>13. C. Jiang, B. Zhao, J. Cheng, J. Li, H. Zhang, Z. Tang, and J. Yang, [Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.05.081) [Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.05.081), 173, 399 (2015).
- <span id="page-10-12"></span>14. M. Gao, W. Sheng, Z. Zhuang, Q. Fang, S. Gu, J. Jiang, and Y. Yan, [JACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja502128j), 136, 7077 (2014).
- <span id="page-10-13"></span>15. S. Anantharaj, P. E. Karthik, and S. Kundu, [Catalysis Science & Technology](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CY02282K), 7, 882 (2017).
- <span id="page-10-14"></span>16. J. H. Zhong, A. L. Wang, G. R. Li, J. W. Wang, Y. N. Ou, and Y. X. Tong, [J. Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2jm15863a), 22, 5656 (2012).
- <span id="page-10-15"></span>17. N. K. Mahale and S. T. Ingle, [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2016.11.053), 119, 872 (2017).
- 18. S. Yin, W. Tu, Y. Sheng, Y. Du, M. Kraft, A. Borgna, and R. Xu, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201705106), 30, 1705106 (2018).
- 19. S. Wu, X. Shen, G. Zhu, H. Zhou, Z. Ji, L. Ma, K. Xu, J. Yang, and A. Yuan, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2017.01.085), 116, 68 (2017).
- <span id="page-10-16"></span>20. X. Zhang, X. Li, W. Wang, and Z. Yang, [Surf. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2021.122000), 717, 122000 (2022).
- <span id="page-10-17"></span>21. X. Ma, J. Liu, C. Liang, X. Gong, and R. Che, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA02221A), 2, 12692 (2014).
- <span id="page-10-18"></span>22. A. A. Zhou, J. Bai, W. Hong, and H. Bai, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2022.01.056), 191, 301 (2022).
- <span id="page-10-19"></span>23. S. Upadhyay, R. A. Mir, and O. P. Pandey, [Int. J. Hydrogen Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.06.115), 48, 36687 (2023).
- <span id="page-10-20"></span>24. Z. K. Goldsmith, A. K. Harshan, J. B. Gerken, M. Vörös, G. Galli, S. S. Stahl, and S. Hammes-Schiffer, [Proc. Natl Acad. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1702081114), 114, 3050 (2017).
- <span id="page-10-21"></span>25. S. Tian, C. Deng, Y. Tang, and Q. Tang, [The Journal of Physical Chemistry C](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.0c08513), 124, 24899 (2020).
- <span id="page-10-22"></span>26. B. Delley, [J. Chem. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1063/1.1316015), 113, 7756 (2000).
- <span id="page-10-23"></span>27. J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, [Phys. Rev. Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.3865), 77, 3865 (1996).
- <span id="page-10-24"></span>28. S. L. Li, H. Yin, X. Kan, L. Y. Gan, U. Schwingenschlögl, and Y. Zhao, [Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CP05195F) [Chem. Chem. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CP05195F), 19, 30069 (2017).

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>29. D. R. Dreyer, S. Park, C. W. Bielawski, and R. S. Ruoff, [Chem. Soc. Rev.](https://doi.org/10.1039/B917103G), 39, 228 (2010).
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>30. S. Gupta and N. Dimakis, [Appl. Surf. Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2018.09.260), 467–468, 760 (2019).
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>31. S. Tang and J. Zhu, [RSC Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4RA03910F), 4, 23084 (2014).
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>32. D. C. Marcano, D. V. Kosynkin, J. M. Berlin, A. Sinitskii, Z. Sun, A. Slesarev, L. B. Alemany, W. Lu, and J. M. Tour, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn1006368), 4, 4806 (2010).
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>33. X. San, G. Wang, B. Liang, J. Ma, D. Meng, and Y. Shen, [J. Alloys Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2015.02.191), 636, 357 (2015).
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>34. S. Ogawa, T. Yamada, S. Ishidzuka, A. Yoshigoe, M. Hasegawa, Y. Teraoka, and Y. Takakuwa, [Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.](https://doi.org/10.7567/JJAP.52.110122), 52, 110122 (2013).
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>35. A. A. Khaleed et al., [J. Alloys Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.05.310), 721, 80 (2017).
- <span id="page-11-7"></span>36. Y. Z. Su, K. Xiao, N. Li, Z. Q. Liu, and S.-Z. Qiao, [J. Mater. Chem. A](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA02486A), 2, 13845 (2014).
- <span id="page-11-8"></span>37. A. C. Ferreira, A. P. Gonçalves, T. A. Gasche, A. M. Ferraria, A. M. B. Rego, M. R. Correia, A. M. Bola, and J. B. Branco, [J. Alloys Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2010.03.021), 497, 249 (2010).
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>38. Y. Wu, H. Luo, and H. Wang, [RSC Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4RA07566H), 4, 40435 (2014).
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>39. B. I. Pastoriza-Santos and L. M. Liz-Marzan, [Advance Functional Materials](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.200801566), 19, 679 (2009).
- 40. S. Xu, L. Wang, H. Li, Q. Yue, R. Li, J. Liu, X. Gu, and S. Zhang, [Cryst. Eng.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ce40771c) [Comm.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3ce40771c), 15, 6368 (2013).
- 41. Q. Lu, R. Jin, T. Huang, Y. Zhu, H. Sun, Z. Su, F. Ma, and K. Eid, [Int. J. Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.10.143) [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2024.10.143), 91, 1127 (2024).
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>42. Y. Chang, J. J. Teo, and H. C. Zeng, [Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/la047671l), 21, 1074 (2005).
- <span id="page-11-19"></span>43. L. Chen, L. Hu, C. Xu, L. Yang, W. Wang, J. Huang, M. Zhou, and Z. Hou, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42823-023-00561-9) [Letters](https://doi.org/10.1007/s42823-023-00561-9), 33, 2087 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-20"></span>44. H. Wang et al., [Journal of Energy Chemistry](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2023.08.039), 87, 286 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-21"></span>45. N. D. Huynh, C. W. Mook, and H. S. Hyun, [Nanomaterials](https://doi.org/10.3390/nano13172463), 13, 2463 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-22"></span>46. Z. Haider, S. Fatima, S. A. Zahra, H. Li, S. H. M. Jafri, F. Amin, and S. Rizwan, [ACS Appl. Nano Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.2c04428), 6, 2374 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-23"></span>47. J. Zhou, C. Yang, R. Cui, D. Wang, Y. Zhao, X. Xiang, X. Pang, B. Zhang, and H. Shang, [J. Alloys Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.168792), 939, 168792 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-24"></span>48. D. Yu, Y. Ma, F. Hu, C. Lin, L. Li, H. Y. Chen, X. Han, and S. Peng, [Adv. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202101242) [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202101242), 2101242 (2021).

- <span id="page-11-25"></span>49. C. Chen et al., [Appl. Catalysis B](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.119953), 287, 119953 (2021).
- <span id="page-11-26"></span>50. X. Zhou, J. Gao, Y. Hu, Z. Jin, K. Hu, K. M. Reddy, Q. Yuan, X. Lin, and H. J. Qiu, [Nano Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c00658), 22, 3392 (2022).
- <span id="page-11-27"></span>51. P. Wang, Y. Lin, L. Wan, and B. Wang, [Energy & Fuels](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.energyfuels.0c01493), 34, 10276 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-28"></span>52. C. Wang, Y. Liu, Z. Li, L. Wang, X. Niu, and P. Sun, Chem. Eng. J., 411, 129492 (2021).
- <span id="page-11-12"></span>53. H. Wang, Y. Yang, Y. Ren, D. Chen, J. Wei, L. Wang, A. Xie, and S. Luo, [J. Electroanal. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2021.115641), 898, 115641 (2021).
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>54. A. Xie, H. Wang, Z. Zhu, W. Zhang, X. Li, Q. Wang, and S. Luo, [Surfaces and](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2021.101177) [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.surfin.2021.101177), 25, 101177 (2021).
- <span id="page-11-14"></span>55. S. Sheng, K. Ye, Y. Gao, K. Zhu, J. Yan, G. Wang, and D. Cao, [J. Colloid Interf.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.06.001) [Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.06.001), 602, 325 (2021).
- <span id="page-11-15"></span>56. T. Li, X. Ma, J. Wu, F. Chu, L. Qiao, Y. Song, M. Wu, J. Lin, L. Peng, and Z. Chen, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2021.139473), 400, 139473 (2021).
- <span id="page-11-16"></span>57. J. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, G. Rao, C. Wu, Y. Hu, X. Wang, R. Lu, Y. Li, and J. Xiong, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201910716), 58, 17458 (2019).
- 58. W. Cheng, S. Xi, Z. Wu, D. Luan, and X. W. Lou, [Sci. Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abk0919), 7, eabk0919 (2021).
- 59. Y. Duan et al., [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202015060), 60, 7418 (2021).
- 60. W. Zhai, Y. Chen, Y. Liu, T. Sakthivel, Y. Ma, Y. Qin, Y. Qu, and Z. Dai, [ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c05224) [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c05224), 17, 17254 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-17"></span>61. H. Zhong et al., [Adv. Energy Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202301391), 13, 2301391 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-18"></span>62. K. Xiao, Y. Wang, P. Wu, L. Hou, and Z. Q. Liu, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202308004), 62, e202308004 (2023).
- <span id="page-11-29"></span>63. M. Bajdich, M. García-Mota, A. Vojvodic, J. K. Nørskov, and A. T. Bell, [JACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja405997s), 135, 13521 (2013).
- <span id="page-11-30"></span>64. Y. Zhu et al., [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201905025), 32, 1905025 (2020).
- <span id="page-11-31"></span>65. E. Fabbri and T. J. Schmidt, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02712), 8, 9765 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-32"></span>66. J. C. Liu, X. L. Ma, Y. Li, Y. G. Wang, H. Xiao, and J. Li, [Nat. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03795-8), 9, 1610 (2018).
- <span id="page-11-34"></span><span id="page-11-33"></span>67. S. Kattel, P. Atanassov, and B. Kiefer, [J. Phys. Chem. C](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp2121609), 116, 8161 (2012).
- 68. X. F. Li, Q. K. Li, J. Cheng, L. Liu, Q. Yan, Y. Wu, X. H. Zhang, Z. Y. Wang, Q. Qiu, and Y. Luo, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b04778), 138, 8706 (2016).