---
source: Marques 等 - 2022 - Synergetic Effects of Mixed-Metal Polyoxometalates@Carbon-Based Composites as Electrocatalysts for t.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 69.670s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:31:44.677032Z
---

Article

# Synergetic Effects of Mixed-Metal Polyoxometalates@Carbon-Based Composites as Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Reduction and the Oxygen Evolution Reactions

Inês S. Marques <sup>1</sup>, Bruno Jarrais <sup>1</sup>, Israël-Martyr Mbomekallé <sup>2</sup>, Anne-Lucie Teillout <sup>2</sup>, Pedro de Oliveira <sup>2</sup>, Cristina Freire <sup>1</sup>, and Diana M. Fernandes <sup>1</sup>,\*

- REQUIMTE, Departamento de Química e Bioquímica, Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade do Porto, 4169-007 Porto, Portugal; up201608306@edu.fc.up.pt (I.S.M.); bjarrais@gmail.com (B.J.); acfreire@fc.up.pt (C.F.)
- Institut de Chimie Physique, UMR 8000 CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, CEDEX, 91405 Orsay, France; israel.mbomekalle@universite-paris-saclay.fr (I.-M.M.); anne-lucie.teillout@universite-paris-saclay.fr (A.-L.T.); pedro.deoliveira@universite-paris-saclay.fr (P.d.O.)
- \* Correspondence: diana.fernandes@fc.up.pt

Abstract: The smart choice of polyoxometalates (POMs) and the design of POM@carbon-based composites are promising tools for producing active electrocatalysts for both the oxygen reduction (ORR) and the oxygen evolution reactions (OER). Hence, herein, we report the preparation, characterization and application of three composites based on doped, multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT\_N6) and three different POMs (Na<sub>12</sub>[(FeOH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>Fe<sub>2</sub>(As<sub>2</sub>W<sub>15</sub>O<sub>56</sub>)<sub>2</sub>]·54H<sub>2</sub>O, Na<sub>12</sub>[(NiOH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>(As<sub>2</sub>W<sub>15</sub>  $O_{56}$ )<sub>2</sub>]·54H<sub>2</sub>O and  $Na_{14}$ [(FeOH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub> $N_{12}$ (As<sub>2</sub> $W_{15}O_{56}$ )<sub>2</sub>]·55H<sub>2</sub>O) as ORR and OER electrocatalysts in alkaline medium (pH = 13). Overall, the three POM@MWCNT\_N6 composites showed good ORR performance with onset potentials between 0.80 and 0.81 V vs. RHE and diffusion-limiting current densities ranging from -3.19 to -3.66 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 also showed good stability after 12 h (84% and 80% of initial current). The number of electrons transferred per O<sub>2</sub> molecule was close to three, suggesting a mixed regime. Moreover, the Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 presented remarkable OER performance with an overpotential of 0.36 V vs. RHE (for  $j = 10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ ), a  $j_{\text{max}}$  close to 135 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and fast kinetics with a Tafel slope of 45 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. More importantly, this electrocatalyst outperformed not only most POM@carbon-based composites reported so far but also the state-of-the-art RuO2 electrocatalyst. Thus, this work represents a step forward towards bifunctional electrocatalysts using less expensive materials.

**Keywords:** polyoxometalates; oxygen reduction reaction; oxygen evolution reaction; carbon nanotubes; heteroatom doping

Citation: Marques, I.S.; Jarrais, B.; Mbomekallé, I.-M.; Teillout, A.-L.; de Oliveira, P.; Freire, C.; Fernandes, D.M. Synergetic Effects of Mixed-Metal Polyoxometalates@Carbon-Based Composites as Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Reduction and the Oxygen Evolution Reactions. Catalysts 2022, 12, 440. https://doi.org/10.3390/ catal12040440

Academic Editor: Maria Victoria Martínez Huerta

Received: 21 March 2022 Accepted: 12 April 2022 Published: 14 April 2022

**Publisher's Note:** MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

Copyright: © 2022 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

#### 1. Introduction

The current environmental and energy crisis has stimulated the demand for viable, sustainable and clean energy solutions for energy storage and conservation. The development of energy storage and conservation devices, such as fuel cells and water-splitting devices, aims to reduce the effects of energy demand [1,2]. The electrochemical processes that occur in these devices are the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) at the cathode of the fuel cell and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the anode of an electrolytic cell [3,4]. The fuel cell generates energy from  $O_2$  and  $O_2$  and  $O_3$  [5,6].

For the ORR, the most active electrocatalysts (ECs) so far are based on noble metals, such as Pt, and, for the OER, the most effective ECs are IrO<sub>2</sub> and RuO<sub>2</sub>. However, these materials have some disadvantages, such as high cost, low abundance and intolerance to fuel crossover (methanol and CO). Besides, these materials do not work in both reactions; for

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 2 of 14

example, platinum-based materials have poor electrocatalytic activity for the OER because Pt oxidizes easily at large overpotentials [7–9]. So, these limitations and disadvantages have encouraged the growing search for new, more stable and economically viable alternatives. Therefore, possible alternatives to current electrocatalysts include carbon materials (CMs), polyoxometalates (POMs) and their corresponding hybrid materials POMs@CMs.

There are many types of carbon materials, including graphene and carbon nanotubes. These materials have advantages such as a high specific surface area, a symmetrical pore size and structure and a high electric conductivity [10,11], but their electrocatalytic activity may still be improved by doping with different heteroatoms such as nitrogen. The incorporation of nitrogen into the sp<sup>2</sup> carbon allows the tuning of the electronic properties of pristine carbon materials, giving rise to increased electrochemical performances and catalytic activities [12–14], improved tolerance to fuel crossover and higher versatility for a wide range of reactions [9]. The advantage of having electrocatalysts with high surface area and mesoporosity is that they can facilitate the adsorption of oxygen and, therefore, accelerate the surface reaction [15]. So, these advantages make carbon materials promising candidates for the ORR [12,16–22] and the OER [23–28].

Polyoxometalates, due to their high versatility, have potential applications in diverse areas ranging from catalysis, electroanalytical chemistry and materials science [29]. POMs are metal-oxo anionic clusters, the chemical properties of which can be controlled by transition metal substitution and the counter cation used [30]. They are ideal candidates for electrocatalysis because of their chemical properties, which can be adjusted as required by choosing the appropriate elements [31]. Undoubtedly, one of their most important properties is their ability to undergo reversible multivalent reductions/oxidations, leading to the formation of mixed valence species, which enable them with favorable electrocatalytic properties in relation to other electrochemical processes [32,33]. In recent years, the use of composites based on POMs and carbon nanomaterials as potential ECs for the ORR [34–36] and the OER [37–41] has been explored. The POMs used in this work are from the sandwich-type Dawson family and result from the reaction of a lacunary species  $[X_2W_{15}O_{56}]^{12-}$  (where X = As, P, Si, Ge, B, Al, ou Ga), with M (a d- or f-transition metal) to give the compound  $[M_4(H_2O)_2(X_2W_{15}O_{56})_2]^{y-}$ , in which the metal cluster  $M_4O_{14}(H_2O)_2$  is sandwiched between two lacunary fragments (Scheme 1).

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** Two-step formation of mixed, sandwich-type Dawson family derivatives,  $[(M_2M'_2(X_2W_{15}O_{56})_2]^{n-}]$ .

In these studies, we synthetized new composite materials based on multi-walled carbon nanotubes doped with nitrogen (MWCNT\_N6) and Wells–Dawson sandwich polyoxometalates with M = Fe, Ni and both metals ( $Fe_2Ni_2$ ) in order to understand the in-

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 3 of 14

fluence of the metal on the electrochemical performances towards both the ORR and the OER processes.

#### 2. Experimental Section

#### 2.1. Materials and Methods

Sodium acetate (99.5%, Merck, Algés, Portugal), acetic acid (100%, Merck, Algés, Portugal) and potassium hydroxide (99.99%, Sigma-Aldrich, Algés, Portugal) were used as received. Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (sample denoted as MWCNT) were commercially obtained from Nanocyl S.A., ref. 3100 MWCNT (>95% carbon purity; 9.5 nm average diameter, Sambreville, Belgium). Pt/C 20 wt% (HiSPEC® 3000, Alfa Aesar, Kandel, Germany), Nafion 117® (5 wt% in lower aliphatic alcohols and water, Aldrich, Algés, Portugal), isopropanol (99.5%, Aldrich, Algés, Portugal) and methanol (anhydrous, VWR, Amadora, Portugal) were also used directly. Ultra-pure water (18.2 M $\Omega$  cm at 25 °C, Interlab, Lisboa, Portugal) was used to prepare the solutions for materials synthesis and the electrolyte for the ORR and the OER tests. The materials prepared were characterized prior to their application through XPS and SEM/EDX, and the apparatus and the detailed methods used are described in the Supplementary Materials file.

Regarding the electrocatalytic tests, a PGSTAT 302N potentiostat (Autolab, Utrecht, The Netherlands) controlled by NOVA 2.1 was used. All details concerning the electrodes and the electrode preparation and modification are depicted in the file.

# 2.2. Materials Preparation

The tungstoarsenates  $Na_{12}[(FeOH_2)_2Fe_2(As_2W_{15}O_{56})_2]\cdot 54H_2O$  (Fe<sub>4</sub>),  $Na_{12}[(NiOH_2)_2Ni_2(As_2W_{15}O_{56})_2]\cdot 54H_2O$  (Ni<sub>4</sub>) and  $Na_{14}[(FeOH_2)_2N_{i2}(As_2W_{15}O_{56})_2]\cdot 55H_2O$  (Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>) were prepared according to already described procedures [42–44].

The incorporation of nitrogen onto the pristine MWCNT was accomplished through mechanical treatment in ball-milling Retsch MM200 equipment using melamine as the precursor, followed by adequate thermal treatment under  $N_2$  flow. Briefly, 0.60 g of MWCNT was mixed with 0.26 g of nitrogen using the melamine precursor, and the mixture was ball-milled for 5 h at a constant frequency of 15 vibrations s<sup>-1</sup>. Then, the resulting material was subjected to a thermal treatment under  $N_2$  flow (100 cm<sup>3</sup> min<sup>-1</sup>) at a rate of 10 °C min<sup>-1</sup> until it reached 600 °C, kept at that temperature for 1 h, cooled to room temperature under nitrogen atmosphere and stored in a desiccator.

The POM@MWCNT\_N6 composites were then prepared through the immobilization of the three POMs onto the previously prepared MWCNT\_N6. The immobilization of the POMs was achieved as follows: a 5 mL acetate buffer solution (pH = 4.0) containing 50 mg of POM was added to a 20 mL acetate buffer solution (pH = 4.0) containing 50 mg of MWCNT\_N6. The mixture was dispersed for 15 min in an ultrasonic bath and then left to stir for 2 h at 400 rpm. Afterwards, the resulting composites were filtered, washed and left to dry at 60 °C under vacuum overnight. The composites were labelled as Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6.

### 3. Results and Discussion

3.1. Electrocatalysts Characterization

3.1.1. X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy

All materials were analyzed by XPS to study their composition. The surface atomic percentages of each element for all the materials are presented in Table 1.

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 4 of 14

| Sample                                    | Atomic % |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
|-------------------------------------------|----------|------|------|------|------|------|------|------|
|                                           | C1s      | O1s  | N1s  | Na1s | Fe2p | Ni2p | As3p | W4f  |
| MWCNT                                     | 98.84    | 1.16 | -    | -    | -    | -    | -    | -    |
| MWCNT_N6                                  | 94.39    | 3.70 | 1.91 | -    | -    | -    | -    | -    |
| Fe <sub>4</sub> @MWCNT_N6                 | 90.62    | 6.76 | 1.21 | 0.76 | 0.05 | -    | 0.05 | 0.55 |
| Ni <sub>4</sub> @MWCNT_N6                 | 90.29    | 6.77 | 1.57 | 0.66 | _    | 0.06 | 0.07 | 0.57 |
| Fe <sub>2</sub> Ni <sub>2</sub> @MWCNT_N6 | 92.88    | 5.00 | 1.31 | 0.41 | 0.03 | 0.02 | 0.03 | 0.32 |

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Table 1.** XPS relative surface atomic percentages for all the materials <sup>a</sup>.

As can be seen in Table 1, the presence of nitrogen in the doped material (MWCNT\_N6) was confirmed, indicating that the doping procedure was successful, and the composite materials atomic percentages also revealed that the POM was present. There was a significant oxygen percentage increase after the POM immobilization, asserting the POM presence in the composite materials. After the POM immobilization, there was also a decrease of the N1s' atomic percentage in the composite materials. Considering that XPS is a surface technique that analyzes depths up to 10 nm, the presence of the POM at the surface of the materials may have hindered the nitrogen detection. The N1s high-resolution XPS spectra of the N-containing prepared materials are shown in Figure 1, and the relative atomic percentages of nitrogen obtained in different chemical environments are presented in Table 2. The high-resolution XPS N1s spectra of the N-containing prepared materials were deconvoluted into three main peaks and assigned to pyridinic N ( $\approx$ 398.9 eV), pyrrolic N ( $\approx$ 400.6 eV) and quaternary N ( $\approx$ 402.8 eV) [45–47]. For the MWCNT\_N6, a fourth peak at 405.5 eV was found and attributed to nitrogen oxide and/or nitrate species [45].

<span id="page-3-1"></span>**Figure 1.** Deconvoluted N1s high-resolution spectra of MWCNT\_N6-based materials (green: pyridinic N; pink: pyrrolic N; olive: quaternary N; gray: N-oxides/nitrates).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>a</sup> Determined by the areas of the respective bands in the high-resolution XPS spectra.

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 440 5 of 14

<span id="page-4-0"></span>

| Table 2. Relative atomic percentages of nitrogen obtained from the XPS high-resolution N1s spectra |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| of the prepared carbon materials.                                                                  |

|                 | % N                        |                           |                                |                         |  |  |
|-----------------|----------------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------|--|--|
| Material        | ≈398.9 eV<br>(Pyridinic N) | ≈400.6 eV<br>(Pyrrolic N) | ≈402.8 eV<br>(Quaternary<br>N) | ≈405.5 eV<br>(N-Oxides) |  |  |
| MWCNT_N6        | 49.3                       | 30.9                      | 10.9                           | 8.9                     |  |  |
| Fe4@MWCNT_N6    | 49.8                       | 44.3                      | 5.9                            | -                       |  |  |
| Ni4@MWCNT_N6    | 45.6                       | 40.2                      | 14.2                           | -                       |  |  |
| Fe2Ni2@MWCNT_N6 | 57.0                       | 36.6                      | 6.4                            | -                       |  |  |

The C1s high-resolution spectra of all the materials are shown in Figure S1 and were deconvoluted as follows: a main peak at 284.6 eV was assigned to sp<sup>2</sup> C, characteristic of graphitic structures; a peak at 285.2 eV corresponded to the sp<sup>3</sup> C hybridization; a peak at 285.9 eV was attributed to C–N; a peak at 286.9 eV was ascribed to C in C–O–C; a peak at 288.2 eV was assigned to C in C=O; a peak at 289.3 eV corresponded to C in O–C=O; and a peak at 290.7 eV was attributed to π−π\* transitions [\[48\]](#page-12-10). For the MWCNT\_N6, the deconvolution of the O1s high-resolution XPS spectrum (Figure S2) was not possible, but, still, the peak at 532.7 eV had the contribution of O in the C=O, COOH and C–OH groups. On the other hand, in the O1s spectra of all POM-containing materials (Figure S2), it was possible to identify a peak at 531.1 eV, associated with O in the C=O and COOH groups, and a second peak at 533.0 eV, attributed to O in the C–OH groups [\[49,](#page-12-11)[50\]](#page-12-12). The peak at lower binding energies also had the contribution of O in O–W arising from the presence of the polyoxometalate. The Fe2p high-resolution spectra of Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 showed a peak at 710.8 eV corresponding to 2p3/2 (Figures S3 and S5). The corresponding 2p1/2 was difficult to attribute due to the low signal-to-noise ratio. The same difficulty was encountered in the deconvolution of the Ni2p spectra. Both Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 showed a peak at ≈856.5 eV, assigned to 2p3/2 (Figures S4 and S5). All POM-containing materials also showed the presence of arsenic and tungsten, but, since As3d and W4f appeared in the same region, the percentage of arsenic was estimated from the As3p high-resolution spectra, which presented one peak at ≈145 eV. In the W4f highresolution spectra, the peaks could be resolved as 4f7/2 and 4f5/2 doublets that appeared at ≈ 36.0 eV and ≈ 38.2 eV, respectively [\[3\]](#page-11-0). The signal of Na1s for the three POM-containing materials was due to the presence of the POM counter cations in the final compounds.

## 3.1.2. Scanning Electron Microscopy

The morphology of the three composites prepared was assessed by SEM. Figure [2](#page-5-0) shows the SEM images for Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 at two magnifications, while the corresponding images for Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 and Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 are depicted in Figure S6. The SEM images at lower magnification (×5000) show a roughened texture, while, under higher magnification (×50,000), it is possible to observe the carbon nanotubes. An EDX elemental mapping analysis (Figure [3,](#page-5-1) Figures S7 and S8) was further conducted to assess the presence and distribution of the POMs in the composites. The EDX spectra showed the presence of C and O from the carbon materials and As, W and O from the POMs. The presence of Fe was also observed for Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 (Figure S7) and Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6, and the presence of Ni was observed for Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 (Figure S8) and Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6. The elemental mapping analysis also revealed a homogeneous distribution of all the elements throughout the composites, suggesting a uniform immobilization of the polyoxometalates throughout the MWCNT\_N6.

Catalysts **2022**, 12, 440 6 of 14

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 2.** SEM images of Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 at  $\times$ 5000 (a) and  $\times$ 50,000 (b) magnification.

<span id="page-5-1"></span>Figure 3. SEM and EDX elemental mapping images of  $Fe_2Ni_2@MWCNT\_N6$  at  $\times 2500$  magnification.

# $3.2.\ Electrochemical\ Performance\ of\ the\ Electrocatalysts\ towards\ the\ ORR$

Initially, the ORR electrocatalytic performances of Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 were assessed by cyclic voltammetry (CV) in KOH saturated with nitrogen and with oxygen. The CVs of the three prepared composites are depicted in Figure S9, where it can be clearly observed that, when oxygen is absent no peak can be

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 7 of 14

detected, whereas, in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated electrolyte, all composites present an irreversible reduction peak corresponding to the reduction of oxygen at  $E_{\rm pc}$  = 0.74, 0.75 and 0.75 V vs. RHE for Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, respectively. Pt/C and MWCNT\_N6 were also evaluated in the same experimental conditions, presenting the ORR peak at  $E_{\rm pc}$  = 0.86 and 0.76 V vs. RHE, respectively.

Further evaluation of the ORR electrocatalytic performances of the prepared composites was conducted by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in the same electrolyte saturated in both N<sub>2</sub> and O<sub>2</sub>. The LSVs at 1600 rpm of MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Pt/C are shown in Figure 4a, and the key ORR parameters are depicted in Table 3. It is important to note that these LSVs correspond to those in O<sub>2</sub>-saturated KOH after subtraction of the blanks (corresponding LSVs in N<sub>2</sub>-saturated KOH). As can be observed, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 presented practically identical diffusion-limiting current density values ( $j_L = -3.19$  and -3.20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively) while, for Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, the value increased to  $j_L = -3.66$  mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. These values are somewhat far from that obtained for Pt/C (-4.68 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>); still, it is clear that the introduction of POMs produced an improvement in the  $j_L$  values leading to an increase of  $\approx 20\%$  for Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and 37% for Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 when compared with the MWCNT\_N6.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** ORR LSV curves obtained in KOH (0.1 M) saturated with  $O_2$  for MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Pt/C at 1600 rpm and 0.005 V s<sup>-1</sup> (a),  $n_{O2}$  at several potential values (b), ORR Tafel plots (c) and chronoamperometric responses in KOH (0.1 M) saturated with  $O_2$  at 1600 rpm for 43,200 s (d).

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 8 of 14

| Sample                                    | E <sub>onset</sub><br>(5% Total) | $E_{\text{onset}}$ $(j = 0.1 \text{ mA cm}^{-2})$ | <i>j</i> L<br>(mA cm <sup>−2</sup> ) | Tafel<br>(mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ) | $n_{\mathrm{O2}}$ |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|----------------------------------|-------------------|
| Pt/C                                      | 0.91                             | 0.94                                              | -4.68                                | 87.7                             | 4.0               |
| MWCNT_N6                                  | 0.81                             | 0.81                                              | -2.67                                | 37.2                             | 2.3               |
| Fe <sub>4</sub> @MWCNT_N6                 | 0.80                             | 0.81                                              | -3.19                                | 35.4                             | 2.9               |
| Ni <sub>4</sub> @MWCNT_N6                 | 0.80                             | 0.80                                              | -3.20                                | 34.7                             | 2.7               |
| Fe <sub>2</sub> Ni <sub>2</sub> @MWCNT_N6 | 0.81                             | 0.80                                              | -3.66                                | 37.9                             | 3.2               |

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Table 3.** The ORR performance parameters for all the materials tested.

Even though the  $E_{\text{onset}}$  can be determined by different methods [31,51,52], we assumed the potential corresponded to 5% of the diffusion-limiting current density. The values for all materials were similar (0.80–0.81 V vs. RHE), while, for Pt/C, a value of 0.91 V vs. RHE was obtained.

The number of electrons transferred per  $O_2$  molecule ( $n_{O2}$ ) was estimated by applying the Koutecky-Levich equation to the LSVs (Figure S10) acquired at different rotation speeds (400 to 3000 rpm). Figure 4b shows the  $n_{O2}$  values vs. the applied potential, and Figure S11 shows the K-L plots. As can be observed, the values of  $i^{-1}$  increased with increasing  $\omega^{-1/2}$ , suggesting a first-order electrocatalytic O<sub>2</sub> reduction with respect to the concentration of dissolved oxygen. Moreover, the K-L plots of the three POM@MWCNT\_N6 composites prepared presented different slopes, indicating a dependency of  $n_{O2}$  on the applied potential. The mean  $n_{O2}$  value obtained for Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 was 2.9, 2.7 and 3.2, respectively, while, for Pt/C, a value of 4.0 was obtained. The ORR process, in alkaline medium, can proceed through either an indirect (2-electrons) pathway or a direct (4-electrons) one. The first involves the reduction of O<sub>2</sub> to HO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and then the intermediate's reduction to H<sub>2</sub>O/HO<sup>-</sup>, while, in the second,  $O_2$  is directly reduced to  $H_2O/HO^-$  [31]. Therefore, the results obtained for the three POM@MWCNT\_N6 composites suggest a mixed regime. Similar behavior was already reported for other POM@carbon-based materials [3]. On the other hand, Pt/C was involved in a direct process with  $n_{O2} = 4.0$ .

The Tafel plots (Figure 4c) were obtained from the LSV data in Figure 4a in 0.1 M KOH saturated with  $O_2$  at 1600 rpm. The Tafel slopes obtained between E = 1.00 and 0.76 V vs. RHE were 37.2, 35.3, 34.7, 37.9 and 87.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Pt/C, respectively. These values suggest that oxygen molecules were easily adsorbed and activated at the surface of these materials and that conversion of MOO<sup>-</sup> to MOOH ruled the overall reaction rate (M stands for an empty site on the electrocatalyst surface) [53].

To obtain more insights about the effect of the immobilization of different POMs on the intrinsic ORR activity, the current density values were normalized to the corresponding double-layer capacitances (Figure S12) considered as an approximation of the electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs). By applying this correction, it was possible to discard the influence of surface areas both from the support (MWCNT\_N6) and the final composite (POM@MWCNT\_N6). The similar nature of the materials evaluated in this work and the proportional relationship between the ECSA and the double-layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$  made it possible to compare the materials' C<sub>dl</sub> values. The double-layer capacitance values were determined via charging tests consisting of CV measurements at increasing scan rates (see full details in SI file and Figures S13 and S14). So, C<sub>dl</sub> values were calculated from the slopes of the linear fittings of CV current densities (measured at the same potential of 1.15 V vs. RHE,  $j_{1,15}$ ) reached at different scan rates (Figure S15). Still, these calculated capacitance values must be seen as estimated values due to the existence of some faradaic contributions in the CV plots of the charge–discharge tests. In this context, the  $C_{\rm dl}$  can be considered as an estimation of the number of accessible electrocatalytically active sites for a particular electrocatalyst [54]. The  $C_{\rm dl}$  values obtained were 1.4, 9.0, 9.3, 2.6 and 6.3  $\mu F$  cm<sup>-2</sup> for MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Pt/C, respectively. As can be observed in Figure S12, the electroactive surface area had a significant

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 9 of 14

impact on the ORR performance. These studies suggest that the immobilization of Fe $_4$  and Ni $_4$  onto the MWCNT\_N6 may not be advantageous as both these composite materials presented the lowest performance. Oppositely, the Fe $_2$ Ni $_2$ @MWCNT\_N6 performed better than the MWCNT\_N6 alone and even better than Pt/C in terms of the  $j_L$  values. Additionally, there was a clear synergetic effect in the Fe $_2$ Ni $_2$ @MWCNT\_N6 as this composite had a huge increase of the ORR activity when compared with the materials containing POMs with only one type of transition metal (Fe $_4$ @MWCNT\_N6 and Ni $_4$ @MWCNT\_N6). This suggests that the presence of mixed transition metals may be the solution to improve performance.

The stability of MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Pt/C was also evaluated, as this is an important parameter when evaluating the performance of an electrocatalyst. This was assessed by chronoamperometry at  $E=0.50~\rm V$  vs. RHE for 12 h in oxygen-saturated alkaline electrolyte, and the results are depicted in Figure 4d. The Pt/C electrocatalyst showed a good stability by retaining 86% of its initial current density after 12 h. The Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 composite presented the best retaining percentage of 84%, followed by Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 (80%), Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 (65%) and MWCNT\_N6 (19%).

#### 3.3. Electrochemical Performance of the Electrocatalysts towards the OER

The prepared electrocatalysts were also evaluated towards the OER in alkaline media, and the LSVs are depicted in Figure 5a, while the most important parameters are presented in Table 4. One of the parameters that is commonly determined to evaluate the OER electrocatalyst's performance is the potential that is needed to reach j = 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a value corresponding to the current density anticipated at the electrode in a solar water-splitting device (under sunlight) with an efficiency of 10% [31]. Thus, generally, the overpotential  $(\eta_{10})$  at j = 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is taken as a reference point. As observed, the three POM@MWCNT\_N6 composites presented relatively low  $\eta_{10}$  values of 0.58, 0.46 and 0.36 V for Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, respectively. This last composite also presented the highest current density at  $E_p = 1.86 \text{ V}$  vs. RHE (134.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), being much higher than the values obtained for Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 (13.7 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 (30.9 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). These results suggest that a possible synergetic effect occurs when the POM presents both metals (Fe and Ni). The incorporation of Fe possibly helps in activating the electrochemical processes of Ni (wellknown active oxygen evolution center), leading to an enhanced electrocatalytic activity but, at the same time, improves the conductivity of the composite material.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** LSV OER curves (**a**) and Tafel plots (**b**) of Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6, Ni<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6.

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 10 of 14

| Sample                                    | E <sub>10</sub> | $ \eta_{10} $ (j = 0.1 mA cm <sup>-2</sup> ) | j <sub>max</sub><br>(mA cm <sup>−2</sup> ) | Tafel<br>(mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ) |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| RuO <sub>2</sub>                          | -               | -                                            | 4.14                                       | 118                              |
| Fe <sub>4</sub> @MWCNT_N6                 | 1.81            | 0.58                                         | 13.7                                       | 102                              |
| Ni <sub>4</sub> @MWCNT_N6                 | 1.69            | 0.46                                         | 30.9                                       | 54                               |
| Fe <sub>2</sub> Ni <sub>2</sub> @MWCNT_N6 | 1.59            | 0.36                                         | 134.6                                      | 45                               |

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Table 4.** The OER performance parameters for all the materials tested.

The Tafel slopes were determined using the LSVs from Figure 5a, and the Tafel plots are shown in Figure 5b. Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 presented the lowest Tafel slope (45 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), followed by  $Ni_4$ @MWCNT\_N6 (54 mV dec $^{-1}$ ) and  $Fe_4$ @MWCNT\_N6 (102 mV dec $^{-1}$ ), suggesting faster kinetics for the first two composites. All these metrics are increasingly close to those collected in the bibliography (obtained under similar testing conditions) for the expensive, state-of-the-art references: RuO<sub>2</sub> with  $\eta_{10} = 0.30$  V, Tafel slope = 65 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and IrO<sub>2</sub> with  $\eta_{10} = 0.36 \text{ V}$  and Tafel slope = 82 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> [55]. Still, we evaluated the performance of commercial RuO2 under the same experimental conditions. However, our OER results were very far from those reported [56–58]. According to the literature, the preparation method has a huge influence on the OER performances of both IrO<sub>2</sub> and RuO<sub>2</sub> [57,58]. In addition, the electrocatalysts electroactive surface also has an influence on their electrocatalytic performances. Therefore, as for the ORR, the OER current densities were normalized to the corresponding double-layer capacitances (Figure S16). This correction highlights even more that Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 was the best performing composite for the OER from all the materials tested, including the RuO2. Our results with Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 are comparable with those reported in the literature (Table S1) for other POM-containing composites, but Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 outperformed all, even the Co-containing POMs well known for their good OER activities [59–62]. Compared with other metal-oxide-containing composites, our results outperformed some [63–65], but others presented even lower overpotentials (0.28–0.32 V) [66–68].

The stability of the three electrocatalysts prepared was assessed by chronoamperometry, and the results are collected in Figure S17. All plots show the characteristic, local current density drops originated by oxygen bubble formation on the electrode surface. For the  $Ni_4@MWCNT_N6$  composite, previous current density values were partially recovered with bubble release, and this electrocatalyst showed a good stability with a current retention of 87% after 12 h at a fixed potential of 0.50 V vs. RHE. For the  $Fe_4@MWCNT_N6$ , there was an initial increase in the current, but then it showed the typical behavior, presenting a current retention of 80%. Unfortunately, the  $Fe_2Ni_2@MWCNT_N6$  composite presented the worst performance in terms of stability, with a current retention of 64% after the same 12 h.

#### 4. Conclusions

Three POM@MWCNT\_N6 composites based on  $[M_4(H_2O)_2(X_2W_{15}O_{56})_2]^{y^-}$  with  $M_4$  = Fe<sub>4</sub>, Ni<sub>4</sub> and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub> were successfully prepared by a simple and scalable strategy without the need for linker molecules. The prepared composites showed good, intrinsic electrocatalytic activity toward the ORR, but a mixed regime was observed instead of the envisaged selectivity for the 4-electron process. Still, the Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 showed the best performance with a  $n_{O2}$  = 3.2 and a diffusion-limiting current density of -3.66 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Additionally, Fe<sub>4</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 and Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 also showed good stability.

Most importantly, Fe<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>2</sub>@MWCNT\_N6 presented a remarkable OER performance, outperforming most of the reported results for other composites based on POMs and carbon materials and reaching an overpotential of 0.36 V vs. RHE (for  $j=10~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$ ) and a current density of 135 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at  $E_p=1.86~\text{V}$  vs. RHE. Moreover, in the same experimental conditions, it surpassed the state-of-the-art RuO<sub>2</sub> electrocatalyst. Surprisingly, the results were much better than those for the composites containing POMs with just one type of

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 440 11 of 14

transition metal in the equatorial plane, which suggests a possible synergetic effect between the two types of metal resulting in an improvement of the electrochemical performances.

Future studies with POMs containing other transition metals will be conducted to confirm these findings but also to unravel the overall reaction mechanisms.

**Supplementary Materials:** The following supporting information can be downloaded at: [https:](https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/catal12040440/s1) [//www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/catal12040440/s1.](https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/catal12040440/s1) Figure S1. Deconvoluted C1s high-resolution spectra of the MWCNT\_N6-based materials; Figure S2. Deconvoluted O1s high-resolution spectra of the MWCNT\_N6-based materials; Figure S3. Deconvoluted high-resolution spectra for Fe4@MWCNT\_N6: Na1s (a), Fe2p (b), As3p (c) and W4f (d); Figure S4. Deconvoluted highresolution spectra for Ni4@MWCNT\_N6: Na1s (a), Ni2p (b), As3p (c) and W4f (d); Figure S5. Deconvoluted high-resolution spectra for Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6: Na1s (a), Fe2p (b), Ni2p (c), As3p (d) and W4f (e); Figure S6. SEM images of Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 and Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 at ×5000 (a,b) and ×50,000 (c,d) magnification; Figure S7. SEM and EDX elemental mapping images of Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 at ×2500 magnification; Figure S8. SEM and EDX elemental mapping images of Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 at ×2500 magnification; Figure S9. CVs of MWCNT\_N6 (a), Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 (b), Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 (c), Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 (d) and Pt/C (e) in N<sup>2</sup> - (dash line) and O<sup>2</sup> -saturated (red line) 0.1 M KOH at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> ; Figure S10. ORR LSVs of MWCNT\_N6 (a), Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 (b), Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 (c), Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 (d) and Pt/C (e) acquired at different rotation rates in O<sup>2</sup> -saturated 0.1 M KOH solution at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> ; Figure S11. Koutecky–Levich (K-L) plots of MWCNT\_N6 (a), Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 (b), Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 (c), Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 (d) and Pt/C (e); Figure S12. ORR LSV curves obtained in KOH (0.1 M) saturated with O<sup>2</sup> at 1600 rpm and 0.005 V s−<sup>1</sup> with current densities normalized to the respective double-layer capacitance values; Figure S13. CVs at different scan rates for MWCNT\_N6 (a), Fe4@MWCNT\_N6 (b), Ni4@MWCNT\_N6 (c) and Fe2Ni2@MWCNT\_N6 (d) in N<sup>2</sup> -saturated KOH (0.1 M); Figure S14. CVs at different scan rates of Pt/C and RuO<sup>2</sup> in N<sup>2</sup> -saturated KOH (0.1 M); Figure S15. Current density scan rate linear fitting plots for all materials. Numeric values correspond to the double-layer capacitances (*C*dl) for each material; Figure S16. OER LSV curves obtained in KOH (0.1 M) saturated with N<sup>2</sup> at 1600 rpm and 0.005 V s−<sup>1</sup> with current densities normalized to the respective double-layer capacitance values; Figure S17. Chronoamperometric responses in KOH (0.1 M) saturated with N<sup>2</sup> at 1600 rpm for 43,200 s; Table S1. Comparison of the OER electrochemical performance (overpotentials (*η*10) and current density (*j*)) for POM-based composite materials reported in literature [\[6](#page-11-3)[,41](#page-12-5)[,54](#page-12-16)[,63–](#page-13-3)[77\]](#page-13-7).

**Author Contributions:** The synthesis and characterization of POMs were performed by I.-M.M. and A.-L.T.; doped MWCNT by B.J.; and composite materials by I.S.M. The electrocatalytic experiments were conducted by D.M.F. and I.S.M. The research was supervised by D.M.F., P.d.O. and C.F.; and I.S.M. and D.M.F. were responsible for writing up the manuscript, which was proofread by D.M.F. and P.d.O. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

**Funding:** This research was funded by Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia through project PTDC/QUI-ELT/28299/2017 (FOAM4NER) and Programa Pessoa, and the APC was funded by the public Budget—OE by Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia through the project UIDB/50006/2020 and UIDP/50006/2020.

**Acknowledgments:** Acknowledgments are also due to the FCT—project UID/QUI/50006/2013- POCI/01/0145/FEDER/007265, as well as to Campus France—project PHC Pessoa 42341RM (O2@nanoCPOM). D.F. acknowledges the FCT/MCTES by the work contracts (in the scope of the framework contract foreseen in the numbers 4, 5 and 6 of article 23 of the Decree Law 57/2016 of 29 August, changed by Law 57/2017 of 19 July) supported by national funds (OE). I.-M.M., A.-L.T. and P.d.O. thank the CNRS and the Université Paris-Saclay for financial support.

**Conflicts of Interest:** The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.

# **References**

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>1. Seh, Z.W.; Kibsgaard, J.; Dickens, C.F.; Chorkendorff, I.B.; Norskov, J.K.; Jaramillo, T.F. Combining theory and experiment in electrocatalysis: Insights into materials design. *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1126/science.aad4998) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28082532)
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>2. Kado, Y.; Soneda, Y.; Hatori, H.; Kodama, M. Advanced carbon electrode for electrochemical capacitors. *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2019**, *23*, 1061–1081. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s10008-019-04211-x)

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 440 12 of 14

<span id="page-11-0"></span>3. Fernandes, D.M.; Novais, H.C.; Bacsa, R.; Serp, P.; Bachiller-Baeza, B.; Rodriguez-Ramos, I.; Guerrero-Ruiz, A.; Freire, C. Polyoxotungstate@Carbon Nanocomposites as Oxygen Reduction Reaction (ORR) Electrocatalysts. *Langmuir* **2018**, *34*, 6376–6387. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.8b00299) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29768921)

- <span id="page-11-1"></span>4. Kuang, M.; Zheng, G.F. Nanostructured Bifunctional Redox Electrocatalysts. *Small* **2016**, *12*, 5656–5675. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201600977) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27717177)
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>5. Katsounaros, I.; Cherevko, S.; Zeradjanin, A.R.; Mayrhofer, K.J.J. Oxygen Electrochemistry as a Cornerstone for Sustainable Energy Conversion. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 102–121. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201306588)
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>6. Fernandes, D.M.; Mathumba, P.; Fernandes, A.J.S.; Iwuoha, E.I.; Freire, C. Towards efficient oxygen reduction reaction electrocatalysts through graphene doping. *Electrochim. Acta* **2019**, *319*, 72–81. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.06.175)
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>7. Dun, R.M.; Hao, M.G.; Su, Y.M.; Li, W.M. Fe-N-doped hierarchical mesoporous carbon nanomaterials as efficient catalysts for oxygen reduction in both acidic and alkaline media. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 12518–12525. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA01807G)
- 8. Zhu, Y.L.; Zhou, W.; Yu, J.; Chen, Y.B.; Liu, M.L.; Shao, Z.P. Enhancing Electrocatalytic Activity of Perovskite Oxides by Tuning Cation Deficiency for Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Reactions. *Chem. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 1691–1697. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b04457)
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>9. Gao, K.; Wang, B.; Tao, L.; Cunning, B.V.; Zhang, Z.P.; Wang, S.Y.; Ruoff, R.S.; Qu, L.T. Efficient Metal-Free Electrocatalysts from N-Doped Carbon Nanomaterials: Mono-Doping and Co-Doping. *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1805121. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201805121)
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>10. Frackowiak, E.; Beguin, F. Carbon materials for the electrochemical storage of energy in capacitors. *Carbon* **2001**, *39*, 937–950. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/S0008-6223(00)00183-4)
- <span id="page-11-7"></span>11. Wang, Y.G.; Song, Y.F.; Xia, Y.Y. Electrochemical capacitors: Mechanism, materials, systems, characterization and applications. *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 5925–5950. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C5CS00580A) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27545205)
- <span id="page-11-8"></span>12. Zhu, Y.P.; Guo, C.X.; Zheng, Y.; Qiao, S.Z. Surface and Interface Engineering of Noble-Metal-Free Electrocatalysts for Efficient Energy Conversion Processes. *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2017**, *50*, 915–923. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.6b00635) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28205437)
- 13. Ma, R.G.; Lin, G.X.; Zhou, Y.; Liu, Q.; Zhang, T.; Shan, G.C.; Yang, M.H.; Wang, J.C. A review of oxygen reduction mechanisms for metal-free carbon-based electrocatalysts. *NPJ Comput. Mater.* **2019**, *5*, 78. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/s41524-019-0210-3)
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>14. Tang, C.; Zhang, Q.; Zhao, M.Q.; Huang, J.Q.; Cheng, X.B.; Tian, G.L.; Peng, H.J.; Wei, F. Nitrogen-doped aligned carbon nanotube/graphene sandwiches: Facile catalytic growth on bifunctional natural catalysts and their applications as scaffolds for high-rate lithium-sulfur batteries. *Adv. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 6100–6105. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201401243)
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>15. Pham, D.T.; Li, B.; Lee, Y.H. Nitrogen-doped activated graphene/SWCNT hybrid for oxygen reduction reaction. *Curr. Appl. Phys.* **2016**, *16*, 1242–1249. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cap.2016.03.027)
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>16. Guo, D.H.; Shibuya, R.; Akiba, C.; Saji, S.; Kondo, T.; Nakamura, J. Active sites of nitrogen-doped carbon materials for oxygen reduction reaction clarified using model catalysts. *Science* **2016**, *351*, 361–365. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1126/science.aad0832)
- 17. Sheng, Z.H.; Shao, L.; Chen, J.J.; Bao, W.J.; Wang, F.B.; Xia, X.H. Catalyst-Free Synthesis of Nitrogen-Doped Graphene via Thermal Annealing Graphite Oxide with Melamine and Its Excellent Electrocatalysis. *ACS Nano* **2011**, *5*, 4350–4358. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/nn103584t)
- 18. Silva, R.; Voiry, D.; Chhowalla, M.; Asefa, T. Efficient Metal-Free Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction: Polyaniline-Derived Nand O-Doped Mesoporous Carbons. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 7823–7826. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/ja402450a)
- 19. Chen, S.; Bi, J.Y.; Zhao, Y.; Yang, L.J.; Zhang, C.; Ma, Y.W.; Wu, Q.; Wang, X.Z.; Hu, Z. Nitrogen-Doped Carbon Nanocages as Efficient Metal-Free Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Adv. Mater.* **2012**, *24*, 5593–5597. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201202424)
- 20. Qu, L.T.; Liu, Y.; Baek, J.B.; Dai, L.M. Nitrogen-Doped Graphene as Efficient Metal-Free Electrocatalyst for Oxygen Reduction in Fuel Cells. *ACS Nano* **2010**, *4*, 1321–1326. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/nn901850u)
- 21. Matter, P.H.; Zhang, L.; Ozkan, U.S. The role of nanostructure in nitrogen-containing carbon catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction. *J. Catal.* **2006**, *239*, 83–96. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2006.01.022)
- <span id="page-11-12"></span>22. Hu, C.G.; Dai, L.M. Carbon-Based Metal-Free Catalysts for Electrocatalysis beyond the ORR. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 11736–11758. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201509982) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27460826)
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>23. Zhang, J.T.; Zhao, Z.H.; Xia, Z.H.; Dai, L.M. A metal-free bifunctional electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction and oxygen evolution reactions. *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2015**, *10*, 444–452. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2015.48) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25849787)
- 24. Wu, G.; Zelenay, P. Nanostructured Nonprecious Metal Catalysts for Oxygen Reduction Reaction. *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 1878–1889. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/ar400011z)
- 25. Tian, G.L.; Zhao, M.Q.; Yu, D.S.; Kong, X.Y.; Huang, J.Q.; Zhang, Q.; Wei, F. Nitrogen-Doped Graphene/Carbon Nanotube Hybrids: In Situ Formation on Bifunctional Catalysts and Their Superior Electrocatalytic Activity for Oxygen Evolution/Reduction Reaction. *Small* **2014**, *10*, 2251–2259. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201303715)
- 26. Liu, Z.J.; Zhao, Z.H.; Wang, Y.Y.; Dou, S.; Yan, D.F.; Liu, D.D.; Xia, Z.H.; Wang, S.Y. In Situ Exfoliated, Edge-Rich, Oxygen-Functionalized Graphene from Carbon Fibers for Oxygen Electrocatalysis. *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606207. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201606207)
- 27. Lyu, F.L.; Wang, Q.F.; Choi, S.M.; Yin, Y.D. Noble-Metal-Free Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Evolution. *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1804201. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201804201)
- <span id="page-11-14"></span>28. Qian, Y.H.; Hu, Z.G.; Ge, X.M.; Yang, S.L.; Peng, Y.W.; Kang, Z.X.; Liu, Z.L.; Lee, J.Y.; Zhao, D. A metal-free ORR/OER bifunctional electrocatalyst derived from metal-organic frameworks for rechargeable Zn-Air batteries. *Carbon* **2017**, *111*, 641–650. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2016.10.046)
- <span id="page-11-15"></span>29. Katsoulis, D.E. A survey of applications of polyoxometalates. *Chem. Rev.* **1998**, *98*, 359–387. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/cr960398a)
- <span id="page-11-16"></span>30. Li, G.; Ding, Y.; Wang, J.; Wang, X.; Suo, J. New progress of Keggin and Wells–Dawson type polyoxometalates catalyze acid and oxidative reactions. *J. Mol. Catal. A Chem.* **2007**, *262*, 67–76. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.molcata.2006.08.067)
- <span id="page-11-17"></span>31. Freire, C.; Fernandes, D.M.; Nunes, M.; Abdelkader, V.K. POM & MOF-based Electrocatalysts for Energy-related Reactions. *ChemCatChem* **2018**, *10*, 1703–1730.

Catalysts 2022, 12, 440 13 of 14

<span id="page-12-0"></span>32. Dolbecq, A.; Mialane, P.; Keita, B.; Nadjo, L. Polyoxometalate-based materials for efficient solar and visible light harvesting: Application to the photocatalytic degradation of azo dyes. *J. Mater. Chem.* **2012**, 22, 24509–24521. [CrossRef]

- <span id="page-12-1"></span>33. Fernandes, D.M.; Araujo, M.P.; Haider, A.; Mougharbel, A.S.; Fernandes, A.J.S.; Kortz, U.; Freire, C. Polyoxometalate-graphene Electrocatalysts for the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction. *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 273–283. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-2"></span>34. Xie, X.; Nie, Y.; Chen, S.; Ding, W.; Qi, X.; Li, L.; Wei, Z. A catalyst superior to carbon-supported-platinum for promotion of the oxygen reduction: Reduced-polyoxometalate supported palladium. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 13962–13969. [CrossRef]
- 35. Teillout, A.-L.; de Oliveira, P.; Marrot, J.; Howell, R.; Vilà, N.; Walcarius, A.; Mbomekallé, I. Synthesis, Crystal Structure, Electrochemistry and Electro-Catalytic Properties of the Manganese-Containing Polyoxotungstate, [(Mn(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>(H<sub>2</sub>W<sub>12</sub>O<sub>42</sub>)]<sup>6-</sup>. *Inorganics* **2019**, 7, 15. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-3"></span>36. Liang, Y.Y.; Wang, H.L.; Zhou, J.G.; Li, Y.G.; Wang, J.; Regier, T.; Dai, H.J. Covalent Hybrid of Spinel Manganese-Cobalt Oxide and Graphene as Advanced Oxygen Reduction Electrocatalysts. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 3517–3523. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-4"></span>37. Ji, Y.; Huang, L.; Hu, J.; Streb, C.; Song, Y.-F. Polyoxometalate-functionalized nanocarbon materials for energy conversion, energy storage and sensor systems. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 776–789. [CrossRef]
- 38. Toma, F.M.; Sartorel, A.; Iurlo, M.; Carraro, M.; Rapino, S.; Hoober-Burkhardt, L.; Da Ros, T.; Marcaccio, M.; Scorrano, G.; Paolucci, F.; et al. Tailored functionalization of carbon nanotubes for electrocatalytic water splitting and sustainable energy applications. *ChemSusChem* **2011**, *4*, 1447–1451. [CrossRef]
- 39. Wu, J.; Liao, L.; Yan, W.; Xue, Y.; Sun, Y.; Yan, X.; Chen, Y.; Xie, Y. Polyoxometalates immobilized in ordered mesoporous carbon nitride as highly efficient water oxidation catalysts. *ChemSusChem* **2012**, *5*, 1207–1212. [CrossRef]
- 40. Guo, S.-X.; Liu, Y.; Lee, C.-Y.; Bond, A.M.; Zhang, J.; Geletii, Y.V.; Hill, C.L. Graphene-supported [{Ru<sub>4</sub>O<sub>4</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub>(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>4</sub>}(γ-SiW<sub>10</sub>O<sub>36</sub>)<sub>2</sub>]<sup>10-</sup> for highly efficient electrocatalytic water oxidation. *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 2654–2663. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-5"></span>41. Gong, R.H.; Gao, D.D.; Liu, R.J.; Sorsche, D.; Biskupek, J.; Kaiser, U.; Rau, S.; Streb, C. Self-Activation of a Polyoxometalate-Derived Composite Electrocatalyst for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction. *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 12671–12676. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-6"></span>42. Mbomekalle, I.M.; Keita, B.; Nadjo, L.; Berthet, P.; Hardcastle, K.I.; Hill, C.L.; Anderson, T.M. Multi-iron tungstodiarsenates. Synthesis, characterization, and electrocatalytic studies of alpha beta beta alpha-(Fe<sup>III</sup>OH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>Fe<sup>III</sup><sub>2</sub>(AS<sub>2</sub>W<sub>15</sub>O<sub>56</sub>)<sub>2</sub><sup>12-</sup>. *Inorg. Chem.* **2003**, *42*, 1163–1169. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
- 43. Mbomekalle, I.M.; Mialane, P.; Dolbecq, A.; Marrot, J.; Secheresse, F.; Berthet, P.; Keita, B.; Nadjo, L. Rational Synthesis, Structure, Magnetism and Electrochemistry of Mixed Iron-Nickel-Containing Wells-Dawson-Fragment-Based Sandwich-Type Polyoxometalates. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2009, 34, 5194–5204. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-7"></span>44. Gomezgarcia, C.J.; Borrasalmenar, J.J.; Coronado, E.; Ouahab, L. Single-Crystal X-Ray Structure and Magnetic-Properties of the Polyoxotungstate Complexes NA16 M4(H2O)2(P2W15O56)2 Center-Dot-NH2O (M=MN-II, N=53, M=NI-II, N=52)—An Antiferromagnetic MN-II Tetramer and a Ferromagnetic NI-II Tetramer. *Inorg. Chem.* 1994, 33, 4016–4022. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-8"></span>45. Huang, M.C.; Teng, H.S. Nitrogen-containing carbons from phenol-formaldehyde resins and their catalytic activity in NO reduction with NH3. *Carbon* **2003**, *41*, 951–957. [CrossRef]
- 46. Kapteijn, F.; Moulijn, J.A.; Matzner, S.; Boehm, H.P. The development of nitrogen functionality in model chars during gasification in CO2 and O-2. *Carbon* **1999**, *37*, 1143–1150. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-9"></span>47. Shao, Y.Y.; Zhang, S.; Engelhard, M.H.; Li, G.S.; Shao, G.C.; Wang, Y.; Liu, J.; Aksay, I.A.; Lin, Y.H. Nitrogen-doped graphene and its electrochemical applications. *J. Mater. Chem.* **2010**, 20, 7491–7496. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-10"></span>48. Kovtun, A.; Jones, D.; Dell'Elce, S.; Treossi, E.; Liscio, A.; Palermo, V. Accurate chemical analysis of oxygenated graphene-based materials using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. *Carbon* **2019**, *143*, 268–275. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-11"></span>49. Botas, C.; Alvarez, P.; Blanco, C.; Gutierrez, M.D.; Ares, P.; Zamani, R.; Arbiol, J.; Morante, J.R.; Menendez, R. Tailored graphene materials by chemical reduction of graphene oxides of different atomic structure. *RSC Adv.* **2012**, *2*, 9643–9650. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-12"></span>50. Tang, L.B.; Li, X.M.; Ji, R.B.; Teng, K.S.; Tai, G.; Ye, J.; Wei, C.S.; Lau, S.P. Bottom-up synthesis of large-scale graphene oxide nanosheets. *J. Mater. Chem.* **2012**, 22, 5676–5683. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-13"></span>51. Daems, N.; Sheng, X.; Vankelecom, I.F.J.; Pescarmona, P.P. Metal-free doped carbon materials as electrocatalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, 2, 4085–4110. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-14"></span>52. Zhou, X.J.; Qiao, J.L.; Yang, L.; Zhang, J.J. A Review of Graphene-Based Nanostructural Materials for Both Catalyst Supports and Metal-Free Catalysts in PEM Fuel Cell Oxygen Reduction Reactions. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2014**, *4*, 25. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-15"></span>53. Mathumba, P.; Fernandes, D.M.; Matos, R.; Iwuoha, E.I.; Freire, C. Metal Oxide (Co3O4 and Mn3O4) Impregnation into S, N-doped Graphene for Oxygen Reduction (ORR). *Materials* **2020**, *13*, 1562. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
- <span id="page-12-16"></span>54. Abdelkader-Fernandez, V.K.; Fernandes, D.M.; Balula, S.S.; Cunha-Silva, L.; Freire, C. Advanced framework-modified POM@ZIF-67 nanocomposites as enhanced oxygen evolution reaction electrocatalysts. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 13509–13521. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-17"></span>55. Lyu, H.H.; Gao, B.; He, F.; Ding, C.; Tang, J.C.; Crittenden, J.C. Ball-Milled Carbon Nanomaterials for Energy and Environmental Applications. *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5*, 9568–9585. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-18"></span>Liu, S.W.; Tong, M.Y.; Liu, G.Q.; Zhang, X.; Wang, Z.M.; Wang, G.Z.; Cai, W.P.; Zhang, H.M.; Zhao, H.J. S, N-Containing Co-MOF derived Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>@S,N-doped carbon materials as efficient oxygen electrocatalysts and supercapacitor electrode materials. *Inorg. Chem. Front.* 2017, 4, 491–498. [CrossRef]
- <span id="page-12-19"></span>57. Suen, N.T.; Hung, S.F.; Quan, Q.; Zhang, N.; Xu, Y.J.; Chen, H.M. Electrocatalysis for the oxygen evolution reaction: Recent development and future perspectives. *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337–365. [CrossRef]

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 440 14 of 14

<span id="page-13-0"></span>58. Frydendal, R.; Paoli, E.A.; Knudsen, B.P.; Wickman, B.; Malacrida, P.; Stephens, I.E.L.; Chorkendorff, I. Benchmarking the Stability of Oxygen Evolution Reaction Catalysts: The Importance of Monitoring Mass Losses. *ChemElectroChem* **2014**, *1*, 2075–2081. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201402262)

- <span id="page-13-1"></span>59. Soriano-Lopez, J.; Goberna-Ferron, S.; Vigara, L.; Carbo, J.J.; Poblet, J.M.; Galan-Mascaros, J.R. Cobalt Polyoxometalates as Heterogeneous Water Oxidation Catalysts. *Inorg. Chem.* **2013**, *52*, 4753–4755. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/ic4001945)
- 60. Soriano-Lopez, J.; Musaev, D.G.; Hill, C.L.; Galan-Mascaros, J.R.; Carbo, J.J.; Poblet, J.M. Tetracobalt-polyoxometalate catalysts for water oxidation: Key mechanistic details. *J. Catal.* **2017**, *350*, 56–63. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2017.03.018)
- 61. Haider, A.; Bassil, B.S.; Soriano-Lopez, J.; Qasim, H.M.; de Pipaon, C.S.; Ibrahim, M.; Dutta, D.; Koo, Y.S.; Carbo, J.J.; Poblet, J.M.; et al. 9-Cobalt(II)-Containing 27-Tungsto-3-germanate(IV): Synthesis, Structure, Computational Modeling, and Heterogeneous Water Oxidation Catalysis. *Inorg. Chem.* **2019**, *58*, 11308–11316. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b01495) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31411866)
- <span id="page-13-2"></span>62. Stracke, J.J.; Finke, R.G. Water Oxidation Catalysis Beginning with 2.5 µM [Co<sup>4</sup> (H2O)<sup>2</sup> (PW9O34)<sup>2</sup> ] <sup>10</sup>−: Investigation of the True Electrochemically Driven Catalyst at >= 600 mV Overpotential at a Glassy Carbon Electrode. *ACS Catal.* **2013**, *3*, 1209–1219. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/cs400141t)
- <span id="page-13-3"></span>63. Zhang, C.X.; Wu, C.; Gao, Y.; Gong, Y.; Liu, H.Y.; He, J.P. FeNi Nanoparticles Coated on N-doped Ultrathin Graphene-like Nanosheets as Stable Bifunctional Catalyst for Zn-Air Batteries. *Chem. Asian J.* **2021**, *16*, 1592–1602. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/asia.202100347)
- 64. Battiato, S.; Urso, M.; Cosentino, S.; Pellegrino, A.L.; Mirabella, S.; Terrasi, A. Optimization of Oxygen Evolution Reaction with Electroless Deposited Ni-P Catalytic Nanocoating. *Nanomaterials* **2021**, *11*, 3010. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.3390/nano11113010) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34835772)
- <span id="page-13-4"></span>65. Liu, Y.Y.; Jiang, H.L.; Zhu, Y.H.; Yang, X.L.; Li, C.Z. Transition metals (Fe, Co, and Ni) encapsulated in nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes as bi-functional catalysts for oxygen electrode reactions. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 1694–1701. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C5TA10551J)
- <span id="page-13-5"></span>66. Zhang, J.W.; Zhang, H.; Ren, T.Z.; Yuan, Z.Y.; Bandosz, T.J. FeNi doped porous carbon as an efficient catalyst for oxygen evolution reaction. *Front. Chem. Sci. Eng.* **2021**, *15*, 279–287. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s11705-020-1965-2)
- 67. Song, F.; Hu, X.L. Exfoliation of layered double hydroxides for enhanced oxygen evolution catalysis. *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4477. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms5477)
- <span id="page-13-6"></span>68. Zhang, X.; Xu, H.M.; Li, X.X.; Li, Y.Y.; Yang, T.B.; Liang, Y.Y. Facile Synthesis of Nickel-Iron/Nanocarbon Hybrids as Advanced Electrocatalysts for Efficient Water Splitting. *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 580–588. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02291)
- 69. Lee, G.Y.; Kim, I.; Lim, J.; Yang, M.Y.; Choi, D.S.; Gu, Y.; Oh, Y.; Kang, S.H.; Nam, Y.S.; Kim, S.O. Spontaneous linker-free binding of polyoxometalates on nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes for efficient water oxidation. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 1941–1947. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA09306J)
- 70. Abdelkader-Fernandez, V.K.; Fernandes, D.M.; Cunha-Silva, L.; Fernandes, A.J.S.; Freire, C. Decorating MOF-74-derived nanocarbons with a sandwich-type polyoxometalate to enhance their OER activity: Exploring the underestimated bulk-deposition approach. *Electrochim. Acta* **2021**, *389*, 138719. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2021.138719)
- 71. Wang, Y.; Wang, Y.Y.; Zhang, L.; Liu, C.S.; Pang, H. Core-shell-type ZIF-8@ZIF-67@POM hybrids as efficient electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction. *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2019**, *6*, 2514–2520. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C9QI00798A)
- 72. Imani, A.H.; Ojani, R.; Raoof, J.B. Novel polyoxometalate-based composite as efficient electrocatalyst for alkaline water oxidation reaction. *J. Iran. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *18*, 2079–2089. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s13738-021-02169-0)
- 73. Zhang, L.; Mi, T.; Ziaee, M.A.; Liang, L.; Wang, R. Hollow POM@MOF hybrid-derived porous Co3O4/CoMoO4 nanocages for enhanced electrocatalytic water oxidation. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 1639–1647. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA08683K)
- 74. Huang, Z.; Yang, Z.; Hussain, M.Z.; Chen, B.; Jia, Q.; Zhu, Y.; Xia, Y. Polyoxometallates@zeolitic-imidazolate-framework derived bimetallic tungsten-cobalt sulfide/porous carbon nanocomposites as efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts for hydrogen and oxygen evolution. *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *330*, 135335. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.135335)
- 75. Tao, Z.; Wang, T.; Wang, X.; Zheng, J.; Li, X. MOF-Derived Noble Metal Free Catalysts for Electrochemical Water Splitting. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 35390–35397. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b13411) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27966855)
- 76. Xie, C.; Wang, Y.; Hu, K.; Tao, L.; Huang, X.; Huo, J.; Wang, S. In situ confined synthesis of molybdenum oxide decorated nickel–iron alloy nanosheets from MoO<sup>4</sup> <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> intercalated layered double hydroxides for the oxygen evolution reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 87–91. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA08149E)
- <span id="page-13-7"></span>77. Li, Y.; He, H.; Fu, W.; Mu, C.; Tang, X.Z.; Liu, Z.; Chi, D.; Hu, X. In-grown structure of NiFe mixed metal oxides and CNT hybrid catalysts for oxygen evolution reaction. *Chem. Commun.* **2016**, *52*, 1439–1442. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C5CC08150E)