---
source: Mukherjee 等 - 2022 - Anchoring MoS2 on an ethanol-etched Prussian blue analog for enhanced electrocatalytic ef.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 65.715s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:35:53.821202Z
---

# **MATERIALS** CHEMISTRY

## **FRONTIERS**

# RESEARCH ARTICLE

**View Article Online** 

Cite this: Mater. Chem. Front., 2022, 6, 1770

# Anchoring MoS<sub>2</sub> on an ethanol-etched Prussian blue analog for enhanced electrocatalytic efficiency for the oxygen evolution reaction†

Poulami Mukherjee, D Krishnamoorthy Sathiyan, R. S. Vishwanath and Tomer 7idki 10 \*

Controllable defects and interface engineering are promising routes for developing efficient noblemetal-free electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the bottleneck of overall water splitting. Herein, we prepared molybdenum disulfide (MoS<sub>2</sub>)-decorated hollow nanoframes of a Co-Fe Prussian blue analog (Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>) by mild chemical etching of the Co-Fe Prussian blue analog (PBA) nanocubes, followed by MoS<sub>2</sub> decoration. We propose using an ethanol-water mixture as a mild etchant, eliminating the need for a capping or stabilizing agent. Prominently benefiting from the enhanced active surface area and the synergistic effect of multi-components, the as-prepared Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes deposited on a microporous carbon cloth could deliver an excellent OER activity with an overpotential of only 260 mV to obtain a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with a Tafel slope of 55 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in 1.0 M KOH. This work provides a protocol to rationally design PBA-based heterostructures for inexpensive electrocatalysts

Received 1st March 2022, Accepted 16th May 2022

DOI: 10.1039/d2gm00183g

rsc.li/frontiers-materials

### 1. Introduction

To meet the recent challenge of the energy crisis, the investigation of water electrolysis as a hydrogen generation process is more comprehensive than before. Electrochemical watersplitting involves two half-reactions, a kinetically slow oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the anode and the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) at the cathode. The four-electron transfer process involving the OER (with multiple reaction intermediates) demands a higher overpotential than the two-electron transfer of the HER; consequently, the efficiency of the overall water-splitting is dictated by the OER.<sup>2,3</sup> Therefore, one of the most studied topics is developing highly efficient and stable electrocatalysts for the OER.4 The state-of-the-art noble metals and metal oxides (e.g., RuO2 and IrO2) have been recognized as efficient electrocatalysts.5 However, the scarcity, high cost, and stability issues (at high pH values) during the catalytic cycling justify the synthesis of other efficient, cost-effective, and stable non-noble metal electrocatalysts.<sup>6</sup>

3d transition metals, particularly Ni and Co with a small amount of Fe doping/incorporation, show an excellent catalytic

Department of Chemical Sciences and the Centers for Radical Reactions and Materials Research, Ariel University, Ariel, 4077625, Israel. E-mail: tomerzi@ariel.ac.ii

† Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: https://doi.org/ 10.1039/d2qm00183g

OER performance in alkaline media.<sup>7,8</sup> Although these metal oxides and hydroxides have demonstrated high performance,9 other anions in contact with the alkaline electrolyte are oxidized, resulting in the formation of oxides/hydroxides at the surface, which display better catalytic performance than the corresponding metal hydroxides/oxides directly synthesized. 7,10-12 Molybdenum disulfide, MoS2, is a well-known candidate for the HER but has rarely been used for the OER due to its poor performance. 13-15 Densityfunctional theory (DFT) calculations by German et al. showed that the two key reaction intermediates (hydroxyl and hydroperoxyl) have weak binding to MoS<sub>2</sub>. <sup>16</sup> MoS<sub>2</sub> might be a good source of sulfur ions which promote the formation of surface-active hydroxides/oxides, as previously demonstrated by WS2.10

Only a small portion at the surface of the catalytic material participates in the catalytic process. Therefore, the fabrication of a highly porous electrocatalyst with a large number of active sites accelerates the mass transfer and subsequently hits high current densities at low overpotentials.<sup>17,18</sup> In recent years, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have drawn attention for their exceptional OER performance due to their large surface area, the possibility of tuning their porosity, and functionalization using different metals/ligands. 19,20 Among various MOFs, cyanide-based Prussian blue analogs (PBAs) have been extensively investigated for several applications like designing sustainable electrochemical catalysts,21 supercapacitors,22 metal-ion batteries, 23 sensors, 24 etc. However, pristine PBA cubes show insufficient OER activity due to the low

conductivity, resulting in a high overpotential, 25 and hindrance of their OER electrocatalytic application.<sup>26</sup>

Interestingly, the constituents, configurations, and surface engineering of PBAs can be manipulated to enhance their efficiency toward OER electrocatalysts. 21,26 One common structural alteration is introducing vacancies (defects) within the PBA cubes to facilitate the ion diffusion process,<sup>27</sup> often by chemical etching that can change the local electronic configuration to boost the OER kinetics. 27,28 The resulting inner void also reduces the overall mass while maintaining the density of the active sites, offering effortless mass transfer within the catalyst, which, in turn, leads to a closer contact between the active sites and the reactants. Despite this exciting advantage, the quality of PBA etching is uncertain.<sup>29</sup> Depending on the etchant, the hollowing process can start from the corners, edges, or face centers of the cubes.<sup>29</sup> There are only a few studies on the selective etching of PBAs to enhance their performance; 30-32 therefore, modification of the PBAs by the chemical etching process is a trending topic in OER electrocatalyst design.

In this work, our efforts focused on hollowing Co-Fe PBA nanocubes and combining them with MoS2 to enhance their catalytic OER activity. We used a simple co-precipitation approach to develop well-crystallized Co<sub>3</sub>[Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>]<sub>2</sub> nanocubes—Co-Fe PBA—as previously reported.33 These nanocubes were etched with an ethanol-water mixture, resulting in Etched-PBA nanocages. The ethanol-water mixture acts as a milder etchant than pure ethanol, where the hollowing process starts from the cube corners and proceeds to the center through the diagonals.<sup>30</sup> The Etched-PBA nanocages were further decorated with MoS<sub>2</sub>, obtaining Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes. The fabrication of the Etched-PBA-MoS2 nanoframes benefits the OER by increasing active sulfur edges, exposing active sites at the interface, modulating the intrinsic electronic properties, and promoting the synergism between the heteroatoms present in Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> to improve the OER activity. For OER activity evaluation, the prepared electrocatalysts were deposited on both a glassy carbon electrode (GCE) and a carbon cloth (CC) substrate, and a comparison study was made. The Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes presented superior OER performance, requiring an overpotential of 260 mV and 340 mV on the CC and GCE, respectively, to obtain a 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> current density with corresponding Tafel slopes of 55 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> and  $92 \text{ mV } \text{dec}^{-1}$ 

## 2. Experimental procedure

#### 2.1 Materials

Ammonium tetrathiomolybdate [(NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>MoS<sub>4</sub>] was obtained from Loba Chemie. Trisodium citrate dihydrate (C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>5</sub>Na<sub>3</sub>O<sub>7</sub>· 2H<sub>2</sub>O), potassium ferrocyanide (K<sub>3</sub>[Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>]), cobalt nitrate hexahydrate (Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O), and 5 wt% Nafion solution were supplied by Alfa Aesar. CT carbon cloth without a microporous layer (330 microns in thickness) was purchased from FuelCell-Store. All other chemical reagents were of standard analytical

grade quality and directly used without further purification. Millipore water (deionized water, DI) with a resistivity > 15  $M\Omega$  cm was used in this work.

#### 2.2 Synthesis of PBA

The synthesis of Co-Fe PBA (Co<sub>3</sub>[Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>]<sub>2</sub>) nanocube precursors was carried out by a simple co-precipitation method.<sup>34</sup> In a typical procedure, 0.6 mmol of Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> and 1.34 mmol of sodium citrate were dissolved in 20 mL of deionized water to form a transparent solution A. Simultaneously, 0.4 mmol of K<sub>3</sub>[Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>] were dissolved in another 20 mL of deionized water to form solution B. Then, solution B was mixed with solution A and stirred vigorously for 10 min. The obtained solution mixture was aged for 24 h at room temperature. The resulting purple precipitate was then collected by centrifugation, washed with deionized water and ethanol several times, and dried at 70 °C overnight.

#### 2.3 Synthesis of Etched-PBA

The prepared PBA nanocubes were dispersed in 25 mL of the ethanol-water (1:1) mixture by ultrasonication for 10 min. Then, the resulting mixture was transferred into a Teflonlined stainless-steel autoclave (50 mL) and set for hydrothermal reaction at 180 °C for 24 h. After cooling to room temperature, the products were collected by centrifugation, washed thrice with DI water and absolute ethanol, and dried overnight at 70 °C.

#### 2.4 Synthesis of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>

75 mg of Etched-PBA and 25 mg of ammonium tetrathiomolybdate were dispersed in 25 mL of N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) with the assistance of ultrasonication for 10 min. Then, the mixture was transferred into a Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave (50 mL) and maintained at 180 °C for 24 h. The products were centrifuged after cooling to room temperature, washed with DI water and absolute ethanol thrice, dried at 70 °C overnight, and stored for future use.

#### 2.5 Synthesis of MoS<sub>2</sub>

As a control sample, the bare MoS2 was prepared from (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>MoS<sub>4</sub> by a hydrothermal process at 180 °C for 24 h. DMF was used as a solvent to reduce Mo<sup>VI</sup> to Mo<sup>IV</sup>. The posttreatment was carried out using the same procedure as mentioned above.

### 3. Results and discussion

#### Structural characterization

The Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes were prepared by a straightforward strategy in three sequential steps: template growth, framework etching, and subsequent decoration with MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers. The synthetic scheme for Etched-PBA-MoS2 is illustrated in Scheme 1. The successful fabrication of the complex heterostructures was confirmed by high-resolution scanning electron microscopy (HR-SEM) and high-resolution

Scheme 1 Schematic illustration of the preparation of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes and related structural evolution.

transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM). The electron microscopy images in Fig. 1a, e and i reveal a uniform cubic morphology of the PBA precursors with sharp corners and edges. The HR-TEM image of the PBA (Fig. 2a) highlights the smooth surface of the cubes.

During etching, the ethanol-water mixed solvent etches the PBA nanocubes through a specific diffusion pathway, eventually forming a diagonal hollow structure. The Etched-PBA nanocages retain their cubic morphology, but the surfaces become rougher than the precursor cubes (Fig. 1b, f and j). This structural alteration of nanocubes to nanocages was accompanied by a distinct color change from purple to greyish-green. Usually, the edge is favored over the faces or corners regarding corrosion.30 However, in this case, the loose interior part of the cubes, having a higher defect density, is preferentially etched compared to the compact exterior surfaces (Fig. 1j). Although the ethanol-water mixture is a mild etchant, controlling the etching duration is crucial; otherwise, complete cube dissolution occurs rather than the preferential dissolution of the cube's core. This dissolution will collapse the cubes and diminish their electrochemical activity. Optimizing the etching duration for proper structural and compositional control is always challenging.35 It has already been reported that, with ethanol as a single etchant, the whole internal moiety of the cubes completely disappears after 24 hours of etching, forming a fragile, thin shell.<sup>36</sup> Thus, polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (PVP) was added to prevent the breakage of the cubes.<sup>36</sup> In contrast, we propose using the ethanol-water mixture as a milder etchant for better stability without needing a capping agent, resulting

Fig. 1 HR-SEM images of PBA nanocubes (a and e), Etched-PBA nanocages (b and f), Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes (c and g), and MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers (d and h), and their corresponding TEM images (i, j, k, and l).

Fig. 2 HR-TEM images of PBA nanocubes (a) and Etched-PBA nanocages (b and c), TEM images of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes (d and e), HR-TEM image of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> (f), and STEM image of the Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> catalyst (g) with the corresponding elemental mapping for Fe, Co, Mo, and S

in nanocages that maintain the same catalytic performance even after 24 hours.

Both the SEM and TEM images (Fig. 1f and j) show that the surface of the cages is decorated with numerous nanoparticles. The central region of Etched-PBA attains hollowness due to the relocation of inner materials to the outer surface of the PBA cubes, resulting in an internal void space. A close examination of a single Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframe using HR-TEM reveals lattice fringes with an interlayer distance of 0.26 nm corresponding to the (104) plane of hematite (Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>) (Fig. 2c).<sup>37</sup> The hematite nanoparticles are attributed to the etching of inner components leading to a void space within the cubes (Fig. 1j and 2b). The interior void space increases the specific surface area and facilitates the electrolyte diffusion and rapid release of gas bubbles.38 Fig. 1c and g show the successful decoration of MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers along the edges and surfaces of the nanocages, while Fig. 1k and 2d and e highlight the uniformity of their surface coverage. The lattice fringes of the nanoflowers grown on Etched-PBA with a d-spacing of 0.62 nm correspond to the interplanar distance of the MoS<sub>2</sub> (002) plane,<sup>39</sup> which can be observed from the HR-TEM image (Fig. 2f). Thus, the nanoframes benefit from dual structural merits: a 3D void that increases the electroactive surface area to promote charge and mass transport and active sulfur sites that promote high electrochemical activity.40

In contrast, the PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanocubes have only active sulfur sites. The SEM-EDX elemental mapping images in Fig. 2g reveal surface compositional homogeneity of Fe, Co, Mo, and S in the nanocubes. Also, the synthesized bare MoS2 nanoflowers are shown in Fig. 1d and h. The TEM images of MoS<sub>2</sub> indicate the formation of nanoflowers from fine nanosheets, as shown in Fig. 1l and Fig. S1c (ESI†). The high magnification HR-TEM image of pristine MoS2 shows an averaged interlayer distance of 0.64 nm, which belongs to the (002) plane (Fig. S1b, ESI†). The weak van der Waals interactions between the MoS2 layers favor the interlayer expansion by intercalating the foreign species, NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> ions, released from DMF decomposition. 41

To identify the crystallographic phase of the as-prepared catalysts, the samples were examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) spectroscopy, and the results are shown in Fig. S2 (ESI†). The diffraction patterns of Co-Fe PBAs are in good agreement with the standard patterns (Joint Committee on Powder Diffraction Standards (JCPDS) card no. 75-0038), with no other peaks being detected, indicating the formation of Co<sub>3</sub>[Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>] without any crystalline impurity (Fig. S2a, ESI†).34 The sharp peak at around 17.0° suggests a face-centered-cubic structure with an Fm3m unit cell.42 After etching, the diffraction peaks of the Etched-PBA nanocages are downshifted compared with the pristine PBA. The XRD peaks of the nanocages become slightly broader, owing to the decrease in the original crystallinity of the PBA cubes. This observation can be assigned to the defects (vacancies) introduced during etching.36 Although the XRD peaks of MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers do not precisely match with JCPDS card no. 37-1492 of bulk MoS<sub>2</sub>, they well match with that of an interlayer expanded MoS<sub>2</sub> (Fig. S2b, ESI†). 39,43,44 The (002) diffraction peak of bulk MoS<sub>2</sub>, usually at  $2\theta = 14.4^{\circ}$ , shifts to a lower angle of 8.9°, indicating the expansion of the interlayer distance of the MoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets. 39,44 This interlayer expansion is beneficial for energy storage applications due to the lower ion intercalation and diffusion barriers.39

Interestingly, Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes also show similar XRD patterns to PBA, suggesting unchanged phases of the as-obtained catalyst. The peak intensities substantially decrease due to the poor crystallinity of the material resulting from the void interior and defects induced by the etching process. The crystalline patterns of MoS2 on the nanoframes are only seen in a slow XRD scan due to peak broadening, as shown in Fig. S2c (ESI†). The peak at a  $2\theta$  value of  $\sim 10^{\circ}$  is very broad and hardly seen; however, there is a more noticeable small peak at  $2\theta = 38^{\circ}$  which matches the MoS<sub>2</sub> pattern in Fig. S2b (ESI†). Note that the PBA etching may continue with the MoS<sub>2</sub> binding process. This, in turn, could offer more unsaturated atoms as active sites, facilitating the adsorption of reactants in the active area and thus accelerating the reaction rate. The more irregular the crystallinity of the sample, the weaker its diffraction intensity, which supports the SEM/TEM results.30

The energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX), shown in Fig. S3 (ESI†), presents the elemental composition of the Etched-PBA nanocages, where the molar ratio of Fe and Co is close to unity in the cube's center. However, when the focus is on the surface of the cube, the Fe dominates, revalidating the existence of Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> by the HR-TEM results in Fig. 2c. Because the elemental composition of Etched-PBA differs from that of the PBA, together with the inductively coupled plasma (ICP) results (Table S2, ESI†), we conclude that the Co was preferentially etched out from the loose central part of the cubes. The results of the EDX analysis for all the prepared catalysts are presented in Table S1 (ESI†). The Co/Fe ratios for PBA and PBA-MoS2 are

Fig. 3 High-resolution XPS spectra of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes: (a) Co 2p, (b) Fe 2p, (c) Mo 3d, and (d) S 2p

around 1.5, following the theoretical ratio in the Co<sub>3</sub>[Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>]<sub>2</sub> precursor. For the Etched-PBA nanocages and Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes, the ratio decreases to 1.0.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to analyze the surface chemical compositions and elemental valence states of the Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes, MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoflowers, and PBA nanocubes. In the high-resolution spectra (Fig. 3, Fig. S4b and c, S5b and c, ESI†), the black and red colors stand for the experimental and fitting data, respectively, and the other colors for the deconvolution data. Fig. S4a (ESI†) confirms Mo, O, and S in Etched-PBA-MoS2 and MoS2. The O originates from the adsorbed oxygen species and superficial oxidation due to air contact. Additionally, the peaks of Co and Fe are detected in Etched-PBA-MoS2 nanoframes. The XPS survey spectrum of PBA is provided in Fig. S5a (ESI†). It is worth noting that the peak intensity of O increases in Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> compared with PBA, indicating that the material gets oxidized upon etching (compare Fig. S4a and S5a, ESI†). In the high-resolution XPS Co 2p spectra, the binding energies (BEs) located at 779.1 eV and 794.3 eV correspond to the spin-orbitals of Co  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively, assigned to Co-S (Fig. 3a).<sup>45</sup> The peaks centered at 781.9 eV and 797.4 eV are, respectively, attributed to the 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and 2p<sub>1/2</sub> spin-orbitals of cobalt in Co-O, indicating partial cobalt surface oxidation by atmospheric oxygen.1 The satellite peak located at 785.9 eV is likely due to the shakeup excitation of the high-spin Co<sup>2+</sup> ions.<sup>1</sup> The Fe 2p BE peaks at 708.7 and 721.2 eV are, respectively, assigned to the 2p<sub>3/2</sub> spin-orbitals of Fe<sup>III</sup>-S, <sup>46</sup> and 2p<sub>1/2</sub> spin-orbitals of Fe<sup>II</sup>-S, 47 and the peaks at 711.3 and 725.2 eV belong to the oxidation of the surface Fe as Fe<sup>III</sup>-O (Fig. 3b). 46,48 The Mo XPS spectra show the characteristic peaks of MoS2 having binding energy values of 228.8 eV (Mo  $3d_{5/2}$ ) and 232.1 eV (Mo  $3d_{3/2}$ );<sup>49</sup> however, other peaks indicate some inevitable molybdenum oxide species due to surface oxidation (Fig. 3c).<sup>50</sup> Fig. 3d shows the sulfur 2p XPS spectra. The two strong peaks at 162.9 and 161.6 eV are, respectively, assigned to S 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and S 2p<sub>3/2</sub>

binding energies for S<sup>2-</sup> in MoS<sub>2</sub>, and the peak at 164.4 eV to S<sub>2</sub><sup>2-</sup> of bridging disulfides.<sup>50</sup> Some oxysulfide species are also detected at 163.10 eV.51 The sulfur peak at a BE of 168.8 eV could be ascribed to the existence of sulfate groups.<sup>52</sup> The presence of such an ionic group accelerates the OER process.<sup>40</sup> The dominant BE peaks of Mo  $3d_{3/2}$  and  $3d_{5/2}$ , S 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and 2p<sub>3/2</sub> are downshifted compared to bare MoS<sub>2</sub>, indicating the interaction between PBA and MoS2 is beyond physical with a chemical character (Fig. S4b and c, ESI†). This interaction facilitates the adsorption/desorption of intermediates during the catalytic process.

#### Electrochemical OER performance of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>

The linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) were acquired in 1.0 M KOH to investigate the OER performance of the synthesized electrocatalysts deposited on the GCE and CC substrate. CC is an extensively used support material due to its high conductivity and the open channels that improve the electrolyte access and gas release during the OER.53 As shown in Fig. 4a, Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>/CC exhibits an excellent OER activity requiring an overpotential of 260 mV to obtain a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is lower than those of Etched-PBA/CC (310 mV), PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>/CC (360 mV), and Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> deposited on the GCE (340 mV), as shown in Fig. S6a (ESI†). Note that CCs were not activated in this study since the oxidized CC substrate had OER catalytic activity.<sup>54</sup> Also, the catalyst loading on the GCE was optimized to get the best activity, requiring a lower potential to achieve a higher OER current density (Fig. S7, ESI†).

Moreover, the bare CC substrate, in Fig. 4a, hardly shows any catalytic activity; after loading with the electrocatalyst, the

Fig. 4 (a) LSV curves of electrocatalysts deposited on the CC at  $5 \text{ mV s}^{-1}$ in 1.0 M KOH; (b) corresponding Tafel plots; (c) EIS-Nyquist plots measured at 1.5 V vs. RHE in 1.0 M KOH; (d) OER stability test - LSV curves of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> before (solid red) and after (dashed black) 1000 CV cycles; the inset shows the chronoamperometric time-dependent current density curve during electrolysis at ~1.5 V for 24 hours on Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>/CC

OER activity increases and a substantial amount of oxygen bubbles evolve. Henceforth, the better catalytic performance of materials deposited on the 3D porous CC substrate than on the 2D GCE is mainly due to enhancing the accessibility of active sites and increasing the electron transfer within the whole electrode. The GCE is flat, which provides a single direction of electrolyte diffusion that limits the catalysis only to the surface of the catalyst. In contrast, the 3D CC substrate allows multiple pathways for electrolyte penetration from all sides of the catalyst and involves almost all the material of the OER catalyst. 53,55 The OER performance of the PBA is enhanced by etching. Etched-PBA exhibits a remarkable improvement on both GCE and CC substrates due to an increased active surface area and a tuned electronic structure, facilitating mass transport and increasing catalytic reaction kinetics. 36 Distinctly, PBA and MoS2 showed poor OER performances.

It is worth noting that the better OER activity of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> is related to the etching and MoS<sub>2</sub> decoration, resulting in a synergism between all components in the nanoframe. It is well known that catalyst activities enhance by the synergism within their components. 56 The electrochemical activity significantly increases in MoS2 wrapped PBA nanocages due to the increased sulfur active sites at the edges and surfaces of the cages<sup>57,58</sup> and the heteroatomic synergistic effect. The vertical alignment of MoS2 nanosheets grown over the PBA exposes the active edge sites of MoS2 (Fig. S4(a), ESI†). Note that the MoS2 active sites are located at the edges rather than the basal planes. 59-61 Moreover, the traces of active components (Co-O, Co-S, and Fe-S), as shown in Fig. 3, may also alter the electronic structure of Co, Fe, and Mo surface sites, which improves the OER kinetics. The small oxidation peaks in the LSV curves of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> and Etched-PBA, at  $\sim 1.2$  V and  $\sim\!1.3$  V vs. RHE (Fig. S6a, ESI†), correspond to the pHdependent Co<sup>II/III</sup> redox couple.<sup>62</sup> The consecutive CVs of the primary catalyst, Etched-PBA-MoS2, showed a stable onset OER potential and current density upon continuous cycling (Fig. S8, ESI†). However, the oxidation peak current at 1.2 V continuously decreased in the subsequent CV scans, revealing the electrocatalyst oxidation, leading to the formation of CoOOH under the OER conditions. On the other hand, the Co<sup>II/III</sup> oxidation peaks of the nanoframes and nanocages on the CC substrate are negligible (Fig. 4a).

Tafel slope values are the critical parameters directly related to the OER kinetics; a smaller slope indicates a rapid rate. Fig. 4b and Fig. S6b (ESI†) present the Tafel plots constructed from the LSVs of the catalysts deposited on the CC substrate and GCE, respectively. The linear fitting of the Tafel plots resulted in smaller slopes for Etched-PBA-MoS2 nanoframes compared to Etched-PBA and PBA-MoS2 on both electrodes (Table S3, ESI†). Hence, Etched-PBA-MoS2 is an efficient electrocatalyst with fast electron and mass transfer and displays better OER kinetics compared to other samples.

Furthermore, ECSA is another crucial parameter in identifying the electrochemical activity related to the exposure of the active surface area and the adsorption/desorption capabilities of the electrocatalysts. Therefore, we further evaluated the

kinetics associated with the increased active sites of the electrocatalysts using the ECSA, determined by the double-layer capacitance of electrocatalysts ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ). CVs performed in the nonfaradaic region of all catalysts at different scan rates in 1.0 M KOH are shown in Fig. S9 and S10 (ESI†). The current density differences in the middle of the potential window are plotted against the scan rate to get the Cdl values summarized in Table S4 (ESI†) with the ECSA values of all the electrocatalysts deposited on the GCE and CC. The nanoframes showed the highest ECSA values of 172.5 cm<sup>2</sup> and 87.5 cm<sup>2</sup> on the CC and GCE, respectively. The porous walls and hollow interior existing in the Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes increase the active surface area and expand the contact between the internal and external active sites and the electrolyte, hence accelerating the mass transport, reaction rate, and flow of gas bubbles to get a high current density at a low overpotential. Table S4 (ESI†) summarizes the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) values; the ECSA of the Etched-PBA-MoS2 electrocatalyst is about fivefold higher than that of PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>, demonstrating its remarkable OER activity. Note that the C<sub>dl</sub> and ECSA values of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> are almost doubled on the CC. Significantly, the large  $C_{dl}$  and ECSA values of the Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> electrocatalyst demonstrate its outstanding OER activity. On the CC, the Etched-PBA-MoS2 catalyst shows the highest ECSA with a value of 172.5 cm<sup>-2</sup>, about 4- and 5.6-fold higher than those of Etched-PBA and PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>, respectively (Table S4, ESI†). The larger ECSA indicates more exposed active sites in the hybrid structure, thus accelerating the catalytic reaction. Moreover, this value is  $\sim 50$ -fold higher than those of pristine MoS<sub>2</sub> and PBA with deficient OER performance.

We also performed comparative electrochemical impedance spectral (EIS) studies for all the electrocatalysts at 1.57 V vs. RHE to investigate the charge transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ). Fig. 4c and Fig. S6c (ESI†) show the Nyquist plots of the electrocatalysts deposited on CC substrates and GC electrodes, respectively. The measured Nyquist plots were fitted with a simplified Randles equivalent circuit model, R(QR)(QR), shown in the inset of Fig. 4c, and the fitted values are given in Table S5 (ESI†). Notably, the smallest semicircles for the Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> catalyst were observed both in the CC and GCE when compared to the other catalysts (Fig. 4c and Fig. S6c, ESI†). Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> possesses the lowest  $R_s$  values, signifying an excellent ohmic contact between the catalyst and the electrode. Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> benefits from enhanced charge and mass transfer more than its solid counterpart (unetched PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>) due to the tuned local electronic configuration and conductivity, which improve the energetics of the OER catalysis. Hence, in EIS data (Fig. 4c), the observed small semicircle for Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> indicates faster charge-transfer kinetics than PBA- $MoS_2$ . The trends of the  $R_{ct}$  values that represent the feasibility of electron transfer across the catalyst electrolyte, together with the Tafel values, and therefore the overall OER catalytic activity are identical: Etched-PBA-MoS $_2$  < Etched-PBA < PBA-MoS $_2$  <  $MoS_2 < PBA$ .

The long-term stability of the Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub>/CC nanoframes for the OER was initially investigated by chronoamperometry for 24 h, followed by the LSV studies. Fig. 4d (inset) shows the measured chronopotentiometry (at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and LSVs before and after 1000 CV cycles. The constant oxygen evolution process via the chronoamperometric method at 1.48 V vs. RHE for about 1 min was recorded in the ESI† Movie. The catalytic current density of Etched-PBA-MoS2 was stable with a slight decrease after 24 h. In addition, the LSV curve after 1000 CV cycles shows no significant loss in the catalytic performance. The HR-TEM images of the nanoframes before and after the long-term stability tests are shown in Fig. S11 (ESI†). Even after 24 hours of continuous oxygen evolution, the catalyst retains the original cubic framework with slight deformation of the cubes (Fig. S11c and d, ESI†). The EDX analysis shows a decreased metal content with an increased oxygen content (Table S6, ESI†). The results suggest that the catalyst has been transformed into metal oxides/(oxy)hydroxides during the OER process. Recall the increased catalytic activity of metal chalcogenides converted to amorphous oxides after their OER activity.7,11

XPS characterization was employed to study the chemical states of the catalyst after the continuous OER. The XPS survey spectra in Fig. S12 (ESI†) show an increase in the O peak after the catalysis. The prominent peak of the O 1s spectrum at 531.4 eV is associated with metal hydroxides, 63 and the peak at 532.5 eV with M-O in  $CoFe_2O_4$ , <sup>64</sup> or  $Fe_2O_3$  (Fig. S13, ESI†). The Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peak shifts from 784.5 to 780.8 eV after the OER, consistent with the formation of CoFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub><sup>66</sup> (Table S7, ESI†). Similarly, the peaks of Mo and S in Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> shift to higher BEs after the catalytic process (Fig. S14, ESI†). The XPS quantification results (Table S7, ESI†) agree with the EDX results (Table S6, ESI†). As mentioned above, metal sulfides are thermodynamically unstable under oxidizing potentials compared to oxides and hydroxides. They undergo oxidation to their corresponding metal oxides/(oxy)hydroxides in an alkaline environment. 67 This oxidation process of the metal sulfides is also beneficial for improving the OER catalysis. A comparison with previously reported non-precious metal-based catalysts for the OER is shown in Table S8 (ESI†). The outstanding performance of Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> nanoframes endorses their promising application in the OER.

## 4. Conclusions

In this work, MoS2 decorated Co-Fe PBA hollow nanoframes were prepared and assessed for the OER. The electron microscopy study of Etched-PBA-MoS2 has exhibited cubic nanocages with MoS2 nanoflowers attached at the surface. Etched-PBA-MoS<sub>2</sub> presented superior OER performance, owing to its low overpotential, low Tafel slope, small Rct, and high stability. The excellent electrocatalytic activity is assigned to two primary factors: (1) hollowing PBA nanocubes by the etching process increases the density of active sites and promotes mass transport; (2) binding MoS<sub>2</sub> on the surface of PBA nanocages induces a synergistic effect - the electronic interactions among the active components tune the electronic structures of Co, Fe,

and Mo sites. This work can render a workable pathway to optimize the etching effect and fasten different metal sulfide heterostructures on PBAs to achieve an excellent OER performance.

### Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

## Acknowledgements

P. M. is thankful to Ariel University for a Ph.D. fellowship. K. M. and V. S. acknowledge Ariel University for their post-doctoral fellowships. This work was partially supported by the Israeli Atomic Energy Commission – Prof. A. Pazy Joint Foundation under Grant number ID126-2020.

#### Notes and references

- 1 Y. Lian, H. Sun, X. Wang, P. Qi, Q. Mu, Y. Chen, J. Ye, X. Zhao, Z. Deng and Y. Peng, Carved Nanoframes of Cobalt-Iron Bimetal Phosphide as a Bifunctional Electrocatalyst for Efficient Overall Water Splitting, *Chem. Sci.*, 2019, **10**, 464–474.
- 2 M.-I. Jamesh and M. Harb, Tuning the Electronic Structure of the Earth-Abundant Electrocatalysts for Oxygen Evolution Reaction (OER) to Achieve Efficient Alkaline Water Splitting – A Review, J. Energy Chem., 2021, 56, 299–342.
- 3 T. Noor, L. Yaqoob and N. Iqbal, Recent Advances in Electrocatalysis of Oxygen Evolution Reaction using Noble-Metal, Transition-Metal, and Carbon-Based Materials, *ChemElectroChem*, 2021, **8**, 447–483.
- 4 I. Katsounaros, S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin and K. J.-J. Mayrhofer, Oxygen Electrochemistry as a Cornerstone for Sustainable Energy Conversion, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2014, 53, 102–121.
- 5 Y.-J. Tang, A.-M. Zhang, H.-J. Zhu, L.-Z. Dong, X.-L. Wang, S.-L. Li, M. Han, X.-X. Xu and Y.-Q. Lan, Polyoxometalate Precursors for Precisely Controlled Synthesis of Bimetallic Sulfide Heterostructure Through Nucleation-Doping Competition, *Nanoscale*, 2018, 10, 8404–8412.
- 6 L.-M. Cao, Y.-W. Hu, D.-C. Zhong and T.-B. Lu, Template-Directed Growth of Bimetallic Prussian Blue-Analogue Nanosheet Arrays and Their Derived Porous Metal Oxides for Oxygen Evolution Reaction, *ChemSusChem*, 2018, 11, 3708–3713.
- 7 S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu and S. Noda, "The Fe Effect": A Review Unveiling the Critical Roles of Fe in Enhancing OER Activity of Ni and Co Based Catalysts, *Nano Energy*, 2021, **80**, 105514.
- 8 Y. Huang, S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z. Wu, D. Luan and X. W. (David) Lou, Trimetallic Spinel NiCo<sub>2-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Nanoboxes for Highly Efficient Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2021, **60**, 11841–11846.

- 9 L. Wang, X. Huang and J. Xue, Graphitic Mesoporous Carbon Loaded with Iron-Nickel Hydroxide for Superior Oxygen Evolution Reactivity, *ChemSusChem*, 2016, 9, 1835–1842.
- 10 P. Mukherjee, K. Sathiyan, A. K. Vijay, R. Bar-Ziv and T. Zidki, Hybrid Nanostructure of Mixed Transition Metal Oxysulfides Supported by Porous PBA as Efficient Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction, *Isr. J. Chem.*, 2022, 62, e202100110.
- 11 A. Dutta, A. K. Samantara, S. K. Dutta, B. K. Jena and N. Pradhan, Surface-Oxidized Dicobalt Phosphide Nanoneedles as a Nonprecious, Durable, and Efficient OER Catalyst, *ACS Energy Lett.*, 2016, 1, 169–174.
- 12 S. Ghosh, S. R. Kadam, S. Kolatkar, A. Neyman, C. Singh, A. N. Enyashin, R. Bar-Ziv and M. Bar-Sadan, W Doping in Ni<sub>12</sub>P<sub>5</sub> as a Platform to Enhance Overall Electrochemical Water Splitting, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2022, 14, 581–589.
- 13 S. R. Kadam, U. V. Kawade, R. Bar-Ziv, S. W. Gosavi, M. Bar-Sadan and B. B. Kale, Porous MoS<sub>2</sub> Framework and Its Functionality for Electrochemical Hydrogen Evolution Reaction and Lithium Ion Batteries, ACS Appl. Energy Mater., 2019, 2, 5900–5908.
- 14 X.-Y. Yu, Y. Feng, Y. Jeon, B. Guan, X. W.-D. Lou and U. Paik, Formation of Ni-Co-MoS<sub>2</sub> Nanoboxes with Enhanced Electrocatalytic Activity for Hydrogen Evolution, *Adv. Mater.*, 2016, 28, 9006–9011.
- 15 L. Lin, M. Chen and L. Wu, Hierarchical MoP/NiFeP Hybrid Hollow Spheres as Highly Efficient Bifunctional Electrocatalysts for Overall Water Splitting, *Mater. Chem. Front.*, 2021, 5, 375–385.
- 16 E. German and R. Gebauer, Why are MoS<sub>2</sub> Monolayers Not A Good Catalyst for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction?, *Appl. Surf. Sci.*, 2020, 528, 146591.
- 17 Z. Li, R. Gao, M. Feng, Y. Deng, D. Xiao, Y. Zheng, Z. Zhao, D. Luo, Y. Liu, Z. Zhang, D. Wang, Q. Li, H. Li, X. Wang and Z. Chen, Modulating Metal-Organic Frameworks as Advanced Oxygen Electrocatalysts, *Adv. Energy Mater.*, 2021, 11, 2003291.
- 18 S. Li, Y. Gao, N. Li, L. Ge, X. Bu and P. Feng, Transition Metal-Based Bimetallic MOFs and MOF-Derived Catalysts for Electrochemical Oxygen Evolution Reaction, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 2021, 14, 1897–1927.
- 19 J. Du, F. Li and L. Sun, Metal-Organic Frameworks and Their Derivatives as Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction, *Chem. Soc. Rev.*, 2021, 50, 2663–2695.
- 20 X.-F. Lu, P.-Q. Liao, J.-W. Wang, J.-X. Wu, X.-W. Chen, C.-T. He, J.-P. Zhang, G.-R. Li and X.-M. Chen, An Alkaline-Stable, Metal Hydroxide Mimicking Metal-Organic Framework for Efficient Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2016, 138, 8336–8339.
- 21 L.-M. Cao, D. Lu, D.-C. Zhong and T.-B. Lu, Prussian Blue Analogues and Their Derived Nanomaterials for Electrocatalytic Water Splitting, *Coord. Chem. Rev.*, 2020, 407, 213156.
- 22 J. Nai and X. W. (David) Lou, Hollow Structures Based on Prussian Blue and Its Analogs for Electrochemical Energy Storage and Conversion, *Adv. Mater.*, 2019, **31**, 1706825.

23 T. Huang, G. Du, Y. Qi, J. Li, W. Zhong, Q. Yang, X. Zhang and M. Xu, A Prussian Blue Analogue as a Long-Life Cathode for Liquid-State and Solid-State Sodium-Ion Batteries, Inorg. Chem. Front., 2020, 7, 3938-3944.

Research Article

- 24 Y. Matos-Peralta and M. Antuch, Review—Prussian Blue and Its Analogs as Appealing Materials for Electrochemical Sensing and Biosensing, J. Electrochem. Soc., 2020, **167**, 037510.
- 25 Y. Kang, S. Wang, K. San Hui, H.-F. Li, F. Liang, X.-L. Wu, Q. Zhang, W. Zhou, L. Chen, F. Chen and K. N. Hui, [Fe(CN)<sub>6</sub>] Vacancy-Boosting Oxygen Evolution Activity of Co-Based Prussian Blue Analogues for Hybrid Sodium-Air Battery, Mater. Today Energy, 2020, 20, 100572.
- 26 D. Zhao, Y. Lu and D. Ma, Effects of Structure and Constituent of Prussian Blue Analogs on Their Application in Oxygen Evolution Reaction, Molecules, 2020, 25, 2304.
- 27 Z.-Y. Yu, Y. Duan, J.-D. Liu, Y. Chen, X.-K. Liu, W. Liu, T. Ma, Y. Li, X.-S. Zheng, T. Yao, M.-R. Gao, J.-F. Zhu, B.-J. Ye and S.-H. Yu, Unconventional CN Vacancies Suppress Iron-Leaching in Prussian Blue Analogue Pre-Catalyst for Boosted Oxygen Evolution Catalysis, Nat. Commun., 2019, 10, 2799.
- 28 F. Ma, Q. Li, T. Wang, H. Zhang and G. Wu, Energy Storage Materials Derived from Prussian Blue Analogues, Sci. Bull., 2017, 62, 358-368.
- 29 J. Ye, G. Zhuang, Y. Wen, J. Wei, J. Chen, Z. Zhuang and Y. Yu, Three-Dimensional Zigzag Prussian Blue Analogue and Its Derivates for Bisphenol A Scavenging: Inhomogeneous Spatial Distribution of Fe<sup>III</sup> in Anisotropic Etching of PBA, Chem. Eng. J., 2019, 372, 260-268.
- 30 Y. Zhu, B. Wang, Q. Gan, Y. Wang, Z. Wang, J. Xie, S. Gu, Z. Li, Y. Li, Z.-W. Ji, H. Cheng and Z. Lu, Selective Edge Etching to Improve the Rate Capability of Prussian Blue Analogues for Sodium Ion Batteries, Inorg. Chem. Front., 2019, 6, 1361-1366.
- 31 H. Xu, X. Zhao, C. Yu, Y. Sun, Z. Hui, R. Zhou, J. Xue, H. Dai, Y. Zhao, L. Wang, Y. Gong, J. Zhou, J. An, Q. Chen, G. Sun and W. Huang, Mechanistic Insight in Site-Selective and Anisotropic Etching of Prussian Blue Analogues Toward Designable Complex Architectures for Efficient Energy Storage, Nanoscale, 2020, 12, 11112-11118.
- 32 P. Yan, Q. Liu, H. Zhang, L. Qiu, H. Bin Wu and X.-Y. Yu, Deeply Reconstructed Hierarchical and Defective NiOOH/ FeOOH Nanoboxes with Accelerated Kinetics for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2021, 9, 15586-15594.
- 33 X. Ding, W. Uddin, H. Sheng, P. Li, Y. Du and M. Zhu, Porous Transition Metal Phosphides Derived from Fe-Based Prussian Blue Analogue for Oxygen Evolution Reaction, J. Alloys Compd., 2020, 814, 152332.
- 34 J. Zhang, Z. Lyu, F. Zhang, L. Wang, P. Xiao, K. Yuan, M. Lai and W. Chen, Facile Synthesis of Hierarchical Porous Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Nanoboxes as Efficient Cathode Catalysts for Li-O2 Batteries, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 6350-6356.
- 35 X.-Y. Yu, L. Yu and X. W.-D. Lou, Metal Sulfide Hollow Nanostructures for Electrochemical Energy Storage, Adv. Energy Mater., 2016, 6, 1501333.

- 36 Y. Feng, X. Wang, P. Dong, J. Li, L. Feng, J. Huang, L. Cao, L. Feng, K. Kajiyoshi and C. Wang, Boosting the Activity of Prussian-Blue Analogue as Efficient Electrocatalyst for Water and Urea Oxidation, Sci. Rep., 2019, 9, 1-11.
- 37 M. Akia, K. A. Mkhoyan and K. Lozano, Synthesis of Multiwall α-Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> Hollow Fibers via a Centrifugal Spinning Technique, Mater. Sci. Eng., C, 2019, 102, 552-557.
- 38 H.-H. Zou, C.-Z. Yuan, H.-Y. Zou, T.-Y. Cheang, S.-J. Zhao, U. Y. Qazi, S.-L. Zhong, L. Wang and A.-W. Xu, Bimetallic Phosphide Hollow Nanocubes Derived from a Prussian-Blue-Analog Used as High-Performance Catalysts for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction, Catal. Sci. Technol., 2017, 7, 1549-1555.
- 39 K. D. Rasamani, F. Alimohammadi and Y. Sun, Interlayer-Expanded MoS<sub>2</sub>, Mater. Today, 2017, 20, 83-91.
- 40 J. Wang, M. Zhang, J. Li, F. Jiao, Y. Lin and Y. Gong, A Highly Efficient Electrochemical Oxygen Evolution Reaction Catalyst Constructed from a S-Treated Two-Dimensional Prussian Blue Analogue, Dalton Trans., 2020, 49, 14290-14296.
- 41 J. Nai, Y. Lu and X.-Y. Yu, Formation of Ti-Fe Mixed Sulfide Nanoboxes for Enhanced Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 21891-21895.
- 42 A. Azhar, M. B. Zakaria, E.-Z. M. Ebeid, T. Chikyow, Y. Bando, A. A. Alshehri, Y. G. Alghamdi, Z.-X. Cai, N. A. Kumar, J. Lin, H. Kim and Y. Yamauchi, Synthesis of Hollow Co-Fe Prussian Blue Analogue Cubes by Using Silica Spheres as a Sacrificial Template, ChemistryOpen, 2018, 7, 599-603.
- 43 C. P. Veeramalai, F. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Xu, T. Guo and T. W. Kim, Enhanced Field Emission Properties of Molybdenum Disulphide Few Layer Nanosheets Synthesized by Hydrothermal Method, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2016, 389, 1017-1022.
- 44 M.-R. Gao, M. K.-Y. Chan and Y. Sun, Edge-Terminated Molybdenum Disulfide with a 9.4-Å Interlayer Spacing for Electrochemical Hydrogen Production, Nat. Commun., 2015, **6**, 7493.
- 45 Y. Huang, D. Lv, Z. Zhang, Y. Ding, F. Lai, Q. Wu, H. Wang, Q. Li, Y. Cai and Z. Ma, Co-Fe Bimetallic Sulfide with Robust Chemical Adsorption and Catalytic Activity for Polysulfides in Lithium-Sulfur Batteries, Chem. Eng. J., 2020, 387, 124122.
- 46 Y. Lan and E. C. Butler, Iron-Sulfide-Associated Products Formed During Reductive Dechlorination of Carbon Tetrachloride, Environ. Sci. Technol., 2016, 50, 5489-5497.
- 47 Y. Chen, S. Xu, Y. Li, R. J. Jacob, Y. Kuang, B. Liu, Y. Wang, G. Pastel, L. G. Salamanca-Riba, M. R. Zachariah and L. Hu, FeS<sub>2</sub> Nanoparticles Embedded in Reduced Graphene Oxide Toward Robust, High-Performance Electrocatalysts, Adv. Energy Mater., 2017, 7, 1700482.
- 48 C. Xuan, W. Lei, J. Wang, T. Zhao, C. Lai, Y. Zhu, Y. Sun and D. Wang, Sea Urchin-Like Ni-Fe Sulfide Architectures as Efficient Electrocatalysts for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2019, 7, 12350-12357.
- 49 B. Li, L. Jiang, X. Li, P. Ran, P. Zuo, A. Wang, L. Qu, Y. Zhao, Z. Cheng and Y. Lu, Preparation of Monolayer MoS<sub>2</sub>

- Quantum Dots Using Temporally Shaped Femtosecond Laser Ablation of Bulk MoS<sub>2</sub> Targets in Water, Sci. Rep., 2017, 7, 11182.
- 50 L. Zhao, J. Jia, Z. Yang, J. Yu, A. Wang, Y. Sang, W. Zhou and H. Liu, One-Step Synthesis of CdS Nanoparticles/MoS<sub>2</sub> Nanosheets Heterostructure on Porous Molybdenum Sheet for Enhanced Photocatalytic H<sub>2</sub> Evolution, Appl. Catal., B, 2017, 210, 290-296.
- 51 L. Benoist, D. Gonbeau, G. Pfister-Guillouzo, E. Schmidt, G. Meunier and A. Levasseur, X-Ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy Characterization of Amorphous Molybdenum Oxysulfide Thin Films, Thin Solid Films, 1995, 258, 110-114.
- 52 X.-J. Lv, G.-W. She, S.-X. Zhou and Y.-M. Li, Highly Efficient Electrocatalytic Hydrogen Production by Nickel Promoted Molybdenum Sulfide Microspheres Catalysts, RSC Adv., 2013, 3, 21231.
- 53 J. Lai, A. Nsabimana, R. Luque and G. Xu, 3D Porous Carbonaceous Electrodes for Electrocatalytic Applications, Joule, 2018, 2, 76-93.
- 54 N. Cheng, Q. Liu, J. Tian, Y. Xue, A. M. Asiri, H. Jiang, Y. He and X. Sun, Acidically Oxidized Carbon Cloth: A Novel Metal-Free Oxygen Evolution Electrode with High Catalytic Activity, Chem. Commun., 2015, 51, 1616-1619.
- 55 M. Tahir, L. Pan, F. Idrees, X. Zhang, L. Wang, J.-J. Zou and Z. L. Wang, Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution Reaction for Energy Conversion and Storage: A Comprehensive Review, Nano Energy, 2017, 37, 136-157.
- 56 S. Varshney, R. Bar-Ziv and T. Zidki, On the Remarkable Performance of Silver-Based Alloy Nanoparticles in 4-Nitrophenol Catalytic Reduction, ChemCatChem, 2020, **12**(18), 4680–4688.
- 57 B. Hinnemann, P. G. Moses, J. Bonde, K. P. Jørgensen, J. H. Nielsen, S. Horch, I. Chorkendorff and J. K. Nørskov, Biomimetic Hydrogen Evolution: MoS2 Nanoparticles as Catalyst for Hydrogen Evolution, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, **127**, 5308-5309.
- 58 T. F. Jaramillo, K. P. Jorgensen, J. Bonde, J. H. Nielsen, S. Horch and I. Chorkendorff, Identification of Active Edge Sites for Electrochemical H2 Evolution from MoS2 Nanocatalysts, Science, 2007, 317, 100-102.

- 59 X. J. Chua, J. Luxa, A. Y.-S. Eng, S. M. Tan, Z. Sofer and M. Pumera, Negative Electrocatalytic Effects of p-Doping Niobium and Tantalum on MoS2 and WS2 for the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction and Oxygen Reduction Reaction, ACS Catal., 2016, 6, 5724-5734.
- C. Tsai, K. Chan, F. Abild-Pedersen and J. K. Nørskov, Active 60 Edge Sites in MoSe<sub>2</sub> and WSe<sub>2</sub> Catalysts for the Hydrogen Evolution Reaction: A Density Functional Study, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2014, 16, 13156-13164.
- 61 S. M. Tan, A. Ambrosi, Z. Sofer, Š. Huber, D. Sedmidubský and M. Pumera, Pristine Basal- and Edge-Plane-Oriented Molybdenite MoS<sub>2</sub> Exhibiting Highly Anisotropic Properties, Chem. - Eur. J., 2015, 21, 7170-7178.
- 62 L. Han, P. Tang, Á. Reyes-Carmona, B. Rodríguez-García, M. Torréns, J. R. Morante, J. Arbiol and J. R. Galan-Mascaros, Enhanced Activity and Acid pH Stability of Prussian Blue-type Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysts Processed by Chemical Etching, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2016, 138, 16037-16045.
- 63 J. Du, G. Liu, F. Li, Y. Zhu and L. Sun, Iron-Salen Complex and Co<sup>2+</sup> Ion-Derived Cobalt-Iron Hydroxide/Carbon Nanohybrid as an Efficient Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalyst, Adv. Sci., 2019, 6, 1900117.
- 64 Y. Popat, M. Orlandi, S. Gupta, N. Bazzanella, S. Pillai, M. K. Patel, A. Miotello and N. Patel, Morphological and Elemental Investigations on Co-Fe-B-O Thin Films Deposited by Pulsed Laser Deposition for Alkaline Water Oxidation: Charge Exchange Efficiency as the Prevailing Factor in Comparison with the Adsorption Process, Catal. Lett., 2022, **152**, 438-451.
- 65 A. P. Grosvenor, B. A. Kobe, M. C. Biesinger and N. S. McIntyre, Investigation of Multiplet Splitting of Fe 2p XPS Spectra and Bonding in Iron Compounds, Surf. Interface Anal., 2004, 36, 1564-1574.
- 66 N. S. McIntyre and M. G. Cook, X-Ray Photoelectron Studies on Some Oxides and Hydroxides of Cobalt, Nickel, and Copper, Anal. Chem., 1975, 47, 2208-2213.
- 67 Z. Cao, T. Zhou, W. Xi and Y. Zhao, Bimetal Metal-Organic Frameworks Derived Co<sub>0.4</sub>Fe<sub>0.28</sub>P and Co<sub>0.37</sub>Fe<sub>0.26</sub>S Nanocubes for Enhanced Oxygen Evolution Reaction, Electrochim. Acta, 2018, 263, 576-584.