---
source: Natarajan 等 - 2025 - Effect of Zirconium Substitution in Thiospinel Cobalt‐Ferrite Nanoparticles Decorated over Nitrogen‐.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 85.044s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:39:18.083741Z
---

www.eurjic.org

# Effect of Zirconium Substitution in Thiospinel Cobalt-Ferrite Nanoparticles Decorated over Nitrogen-Doped Graphene Oxide Sheet as an Oxygen Evolution Reaction Electrocatalysts

Sumathi Natarajan, Hari Prasaad Somasundharam, Meyvel Subramani,\* Sakkarapalayam Murugesan Senthil Kumar, and Sathya Ponnusamy

The oxygen evolution reaction performance of spinel cobalt iron sulfide (CoFe $_2$ S $_4$ ) is constrained by its inferior charge transfer capabilities compared to RuO $_2$ . Herein, partial substitution of zirconium (Zr $^{4+}$ ) into the octahedral Fe site of CoFe $_2$ S $_4$  is explored to enhance its electrocatalytic performance. The structural and electronic characterization reveals that Zr $^{4+}$  incorporation induces lattice distortion and modulates the electronic environment, resulting in an enhanced charge distribution. Notably, the optimized Zr-doped catalyst (Zr $_{0.1}$ CFS/N-RGO) exhibits a significantly

improved oxygen evolution reaction performance, achieving a low overpotential of 470 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a small Tafel slope of 55 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> in 1 M KOH. Furthermore, the catalyst demonstrates remarkable durability, retaining 91% of its initial current density after 12 h of continuous operation. These findings underscore the potential of strategic transition metal doping to optimize nonprecious metal-based catalysts for sustainable electrochemical water splitting applications.

#### 1. Introduction

The rapid depletion of fossil fuels necessitates a swift transition to green and renewable energy sources. Technologies like electrochemical energy storage and conversion systems are emerging as sustainable alternatives. These innovations are critical to achieve future global energy demands while minimizing environmental impact and ensuring long-term energy security. <sup>[1,2]</sup> The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) plays a pivotal role in energy conversion technologies, yet its sluggish kinetics remain a major bottleneck. While precious metal-based catalysts, such as RuO<sub>2</sub> and IrO<sub>2</sub>, exhibit excellent activity and stability, their high cost and scarcity limit their large-scale applications.<sup>[3]</sup>

S. Natarajan, M. Subramani Department of Physics Chikkaiah Naicker College Erode, Tamil Nadu 638 004, India E-mail: cncollege\_2005@yahoo.co.in

H. P. Somasundharam, S. M. S. Kumar Electro-organic and Materials Electrochemistry (EME) Division CSIR-Central Electrochemical Research Institute (CECRI) Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu 630 003, India

H. P. Somasundharam, S. M. S. Kumar Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR) Ghaziabad 201 002, India

S. Ponnusamy Department of Physics Salem Sowdeswari College Salem, Tamil Nadu 636 010, India

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.ora/10.1002/eiic.202500082

Developing affordable, efficient OER catalysts is essential to advance practical energy conversion systems.

Alternatively, 3d transition metal-based electrocatalysts explore a strong OER activity due to their structural flexibility, synergy, and variable oxidation states. However, the intrinsic low electron conductivity of oxide-based materials remains a significant challenge.[4,5] Owing to their unique structural properties, transition metal-based nonoxide electrocatalysts are susceptible to surface oxidation and anion (e.g., S, Se, P, N) dissolution, which generates additional active sites and consequently enhances OER activity. [6,7] Transition metal sulfides (TMS) demonstrate enhanced OER performance, attributed to their higher intrinsic conductivity, abundant unsaturated metal sites, and adaptable crystal structures. In particular, ternary and quaternary TMS can access multiple oxidation states, resulting in superior electrochemical activity compared to monometal sulfides. Furthermore, the unsaturated metal sites facilitate the adsorption of reaction intermediates, thereby significantly improving OER performance.[8] Despite their promising features, the commercial application is hindered by inherent limitations such as poor electrical conductivity, structural instability under high oxidative conditions, and surface sulfur leaching during OER performance. Therefore, rational design strategies are essential to overcome these challenges and enhance their electrochemical performance and durability, thereby enabling broader application in sustainable energy conversion technologies.[5]

Electrocatalytic OER reactions predominantly occur at or near the surface of the electrocatalyst, where the chemical composition and microstructural characteristics of the electrocatalyst play a critical role in determining its overall performance. Electrocatalysts with high specific surface areas are particularly

advantageous, as they provide a greater density of exposed active sites, thereby enhancing catalytic efficiency. Recent studies have demonstrated that the unique spinel structure of transition metals facilitates efficient charge transfer and provides a high surface area and exceptional catalytic properties and stability, making it a promising candidate for improving the efficiency of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[9,10] From this perspective, thiospinel cobalt ferrite, an inverse spinel ferrite, has garnered more attention as a promising OER electrocatalyst due to its unique structure, redox activity, stability, and electrochemical properties.[11] However, its OER performance is hindered by low intrinsic activity and limited active sites. To address existing limitations, various synthesis strategies like the direct growth of nanomaterials on conductive substrates, heteroatom-doped conducting carbon, particle size optimization, and compositional engineering have been developed. These advancements are paving the way for more sustainable energy conversion technologies and hold great potential for significantly improving catalytic efficiency.[10,12] In particular, cationic regulation, that is, the electronic structure modulation by doping transition metal, can influence lattice parameters, bond lengths, and orbital occupancy, which in turn optimizes the adsorption energies of key OER intermediates. Collectively, increasing both the number of active sites and the intrinsic activity through deliberate compositional and structural design represents a promising and scalable strategy for advancing OER electrocatalysis.[13]

In general, CoFe2S4 nanoparticles tend to agglomerate, resulting in poor stability and limited electrochemical performance. To address this, N-doped reduced graphene oxide (N-RGO) was introduced as a support to enhance dispersion, increase active surface area, and facilitate electron transport of CoFe2S4. [14,15] Consequently, Zr<sup>4</sup><sup>þ</sup> substitution induces cation redistribution, such as Fe cation migration to tetrahedral sites, altering the electronic structure and local charge distribution. As a nonmagnetic tetravalent ion, Zr<sup>4</sup><sup>þ</sup> also introduces lattice distortions and creates vacancies by interacting with octahedral Co sites. These defects serve as additional active sites for oxygen intermediate adsorption, thereby enhancing OER activity and charge transfer.[13,16,17] Moreover, Zr can modulate the d-band center of the transition metal ions (Co and Fe), optimizing the binding energies of intermediates and accelerating reaction kinetics while reducing energy barriers. Electronic interactions between Zr and Co/Fe cations may further promote synergistic effects, collectively enhancing both catalytic activity and long-term durability.[17] For instance, S. Zhang et al. demonstrated that in situ synthesized Zr-induced cobalt iron phosphide (P-CoFeZr) on nitrogen-doped carbon fiber improved the catalytic performance,[18] while S. Anantharaj et al. reported enhanced OER activity in vanadium-doped cobalt hydroxide via chemical synthesis.[19]

Huang et al. demonstrated that the performance of Zr-regulated CoFe2O4 nanosheets on 3D nickel foam synthesized via a one-step solvothermal method enhanced the water electrolysis.[13] V. Kashyap et al. investigated the OER performance of solvothermal-assisted zirconium substituted cobalt ferrite nanoparticles on N-doped reduced graphene oxide (CoFe2xZrxO4/NrGO) electrocatalysts. Minimal Zr substitution into cobalt ferrite lowers the OER overpotential.[20] Building upon this, CoFe2S4, the sulfur analog of CoFe2O4, has recently garnered interest due to its superior electrical conductivity and tunable electronic structure. However, systematic studies on its compositional engineering remain scarce. In particular, zirconium (Zr) substitution in CoFe2S4 has not yet been widely explored. The incorporation of Zr4<sup>þ</sup> ions limits their surface oxidative degradation during prolonged electrochemical cycling, especially under alkaline conditions.

Here, Zr can play a pivotal role in modulating the electronic environment, enhancing structural stability, and introducing beneficial defect states such as sulfur or metal vacancies. These alterations are known to promote synergistic interactions with redox-active centers (e.g., Co and Fe) and facilitate more efficient charge transfer.[13,20] Nitrogen doping plays a pivotal role and introduces structural defects, facilitates charge delocalization within the graphene framework, and provides anchoring sites for CoFe2<sup>x</sup>ZrxS4 nanoparticles.[21] Moreover, they effectively suppress the nanoparticle agglomeration, ensure uniform dispersion, and enhance the exposure of electrochemically active surface area for OER.[22] In addition, they modulate the local electronic environment and promote synergistic interactions with the transition metal centers.[23] These effects collectively reduce the adsorption energy barriers of key OER intermediates (\*OH, \*O, \*OOH), thereby improving the intrinsic catalytic activity. In this study, Zr-substituted thiospinel cobalt ferrite, CoFe2<sup>x</sup>ZrxS4/N-rGO (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1 M), was synthesized via a hydrothermal-assisted coprecipitation method by systematically varying the Fe:Zr ratio. This method was employed for its simplicity, cost-effectiveness, and moderate temperatures. Also, the high vapor pressure facilitates the formation of phase-pure, highly crystalline nanoparticles with uniform dispersion, a narrow particle size distribution, and minimal agglomeration. This controlled environment enables homogeneous Zr<sup>4</sup><sup>þ</sup> incorporation and strong interfacial interaction with the N-RGO support, both critical for enhancing the electrochemically active surface area and improving charge transfer. Zr-substituted thiospinel cobalt ferrite decorated on the nitrogen-doped reduced graphene oxide support significantly influences the catalytic performance and durability of the composite by modulating the surface morphology, electronic structure, electron transfer, preventing aggregation, and increasing surface area.

# 2. Results and Discussion

Zr-incorporated thiospinel cobalt ferrite nanoparticles decorated on N-RGO were prepared via a hydrothermal-assisted coprecipitation technique and the adopted procedure (supporting information) is depicted in Figure 1. Nitrogen-doped reduced graphene oxide enhances electrocatalyst stability and surface active functional groups and acts as a substrate for composite formation. For comparison, the molarity of Fe and Zr precursors has been altered as 0.2:0, 0.15:0.05, and 0.1:0.1, and the resulting samples are represented as CFS/N-RGO, Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO, and Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO, respectively. To investigate the influence of nitrogen-doped graphene oxide and Zr, CFS is prepared without nitrogen-doped graphene oxide and Zr using a similar synthesis procedure.

Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the adopted methodology to synthesize the catalysts CFS, ZrxCoFe2<sup>x</sup>S4/N-rGO (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1 M).

#### 2.1. XRD Analysis

To confirm the formation of the Zr-substituted CoFe2S4, which was decorated on the N-RGO sheets, and the impact of Zr in the phase, morphology, and electronic structure, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman, Fourier transform infrared spectra (FTIR), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM)-EDX elemental mapping, high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis were performed. Figure 2a displays the XRD patterns of the prepared CFS, CFS/N-RGO, Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO, and Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO. From Figure 2a, the observed XRD peak patterns of pristine CFS and other materials reflect their oxide structure. Peaks at 18.21°, 28.86°, and 35.64° are ascribed to the (111), (220), and (311) planes of spinel cubic Fd3m (227) CoFe ˆ 2O4 (JCPDS NO: #22- 1086) with a slight peak shift to lower 2θ, existed along with some new diffraction peaks owing to the presence of ZrS2, Co3S4, Fe3S4, and nitrogen-doped carbon.[24,25] This shift may be attributed to the exile oxygen atom by a larger atomic radius S atom.

In contrast to pure CoFe2S4, the ternary TMS nanocomposites show peak widening.[26,27] Consequently, the change in peak location and intensity is ascribed to lattice strain brought on by greater exposure to metal atoms of high atomic radius and heteroatoms on the surface. Besides, no diffraction peaks have been observed at higher 2θ indicating the semi-amorphous nature of the materials. Correspondingly, the peaks of Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO and Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO shift to a lower 2θ value due to the Zr substitution. Increasing the Zr substitution to an extent in the Fe leads to phase separation of ZrS2 from Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO and a wellresolved sharp peak is observed at 27.20°.[20] In addition, the existence of a distinct diffraction peak appeared at 25.94° is due to the (002) plane of hexagonal N-RGO (JCPDS NO #75-0444),

Figure 2. Structural characterization of thiospinel cobalt ferrite nanoparticles on nitrogen-doped RGO sheets with various zirconium substitutions in the spinel matrix (CoFe2<sup>x</sup>ZrxSO4/N-RGO). a) XRD pattern, b) Raman analysis, and c) FTIR analysis.

confirming ZrxCoFe2<sup>x</sup>S4 (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1 M) nanoparticles are uniformly decorated on N-RGO.[16,20] In contrast to CFS/N-RGO and Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO, the peak intensity of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO decreased by half, confirming the optimum carbon content. Consequently, GO with the heteroatom (N) enhances the structural stability and electrocatalytic activity.[16] The peak displayed at 23.97° and 30.57° is attributed to (220) and (012) planes of cubic R3m(166) Fe ˆ 3S4/Co3S4 (JCPDS NO: 89-1998). Thus, Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO nanocomposites demonstrated the peaks associated with CoFe2O4, N-RGO, Co3S4, and Fe3S4. It is worth noting that the substitution of Zr revealed that almost the crystal structure is similar to CoFe2O4, but showed a slight shift in the peak position and intensity, confirming the formation of CoFe2S4 and ZrxCoFe2<sup>x</sup>S4/N-RGO (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1 M).

#### 2.2. Raman Analysis

As shown in Figure 2b, Raman spectra can be used to analyze the disorder in the microstructure of carbon materials, changes in the structure, chemical species, and molecular interactions of CFS with Zr and C. They exhibit five phonon modes: two A1g, one Eg, and two T2g, all of which are Raman active.[28,29] The observed high-frequency phonon modes of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO around 630 and 672 cm-<sup>1</sup> correspond to the symmetric stretching vibrations of M─S bonds in Td; low frequency 435 cm-<sup>1</sup> T2g(2), 534 cm-1 T2g(1), and 295 cm-<sup>1</sup> (Eg) modes are ascribed to symmetric bending of M─S bonds in Oh sites of cobalt ferrites, respectively.[29] The progressive replacement of Fe cations by Zr in the Oh sites and integration of N-RGO notably shift the peaks to the lower wavenumber side and reduce the peak intensity from CFS to Zr0.1CFS/ N-RGO owing to the substitution of Zr increases the bond length. This implies that the smaller radii Zr<sup>4</sup><sup>þ</sup> cations replace the large radii Oh cations and a change in energy of their mode of vibrations. The decreased T2g(2) intensity of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO compared to Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO reveals that it strongly prefers to interact with S anions rather than other cations on the surface of the catalysts and form ZrS2 and CoFe2O4. This could be consistent with XRD results. The interaction of Zr, Co, Fe, S, C, and O atoms and the redistribution of Co, Zr, and Fe between Td and Oh sites significantly affect the peak intensity. Thus, the relative peak intensity between A1g and T2g confirms the cation redistribution in the inverse spinel CFS.[29–33] The Raman peak observed around 1000– 1100 cm-<sup>1</sup> for all samples confirms the existence of sulfate species on the surface, resulting from the interactions of Fe, Zr, and Co with S and GO. Besides, Raman spectra quantify the degree of disorder in CFZS before and after integration with NRGO and Zr. In contrast to CFS, all the samples exhibit two characteristic peaks, one around 1345 cm-<sup>1</sup> (D band), which represents the degree of disorder in A1g symmetry vibrations of sp<sup>3</sup> hybridized carbon, and the other at 1582 cm-<sup>1</sup> (G band) corresponding to E2g vibrations mode of surface graphitic carbon in sp<sup>2</sup> hybridization.[34] The intensity ratio between these bands (ID/I<sup>G</sup> ratio) reveals the degree of disorder in N-GO owing to heteroatom and cation doping in the CFS. This value is blue-shifted from CFS to Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO owing to increased structural disorder by Zr substitution and carbon by nitrogen, which generates more defect sites and enhances the active sites.[35–37] The peak observed at 2400 cm-<sup>1</sup> is endorsed to Zr.[33] Hence, substituting Zr and N-RGO with the CFS may improve the electrocatalytic activity.

#### 2.3. FTIR Analysis

The successful formation of ternary CFZS nanomaterials and the influence of N-RGO and Zr on their functional groups are further elucidated by the FTIR analysis, and the results are displayed in Figure 2c. All samples exhibit a broad band at 2900–3700 cm-1 , indicating OH stretching vibrations on the catalyst surface. The high-frequency bands (660, 839 cm-1 ) correspond to tetrahedral metal-sulfur (M-Td <sup>2</sup>þ–S2-) stretching, while low-frequency bands (490, 540 cm-1 ) represent octahedral metal-sulfur (M-Oh <sup>3</sup>þ–S<sup>2</sup>vibrations.[17,38] The absorption peaks at 930–1030 cm-<sup>1</sup> represent Fe(Co)-Zr vibration bonds.[33] Likewise, characteristic bands observed around 1020, 1211, 1400, 1500, 1600, and 1700 cm-1 are attributed to stretching vibrations of C─O, OH, with C─O─OH/C─O─C, sulfate with OH (S═O), C═C, bending vibrations of N─H, and C═O stretching vibrations of the graphene oxide.[39,40] Hence, all these results confirm the existence of Zr and N-RGO with thiospinel cobalt ferrite.

#### 2.4. FESEM Analysis

The typical morphology of CFS, CFS/N-RGO, Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO, and Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO is provided by the high-resolution FESEM pictures, as seen in Figure 3. By their synergistic impact, different Co:Fe:Zr ratios substantially alter the morphology of the produced samples. Figure 3a–c depicts that the CFS of the (Co:Fe:Zr) 1:2:0 ratio mostly has a cubic rod-like shape with minimal aggregation of hexagons. After N-RGO is incorporated, the CFS/N-RGO cubic rod's length (Figure 3d–f ) is shortened with less agglomeration. A dispersed rod-like morphology with a limited number of hexagons is evident when Zr is introduced in the octahedral sites of CFS (Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO—Co:Fe:Zr) in a 1:1.5:0.5 ratio (Figure 3g–i). Since Zr has a greater ionic radius than Fe, raising the Zr content to the molar ratios of Co:Fe:Zr to 1:1:1 in Zr0.1CFS/ N-RGO may increase the particle size by ZrS2 formation.[27] Thus, the rod-like structure perished and formed a hexagonal shape with a rougher surface (Figure 3j–l), which boosted the OER activity by adsorbing more intermediates. Therefore, the molar ratio of the cations and their coordination determines the shape of Zrsubstituted CFS nanoparticles. According to the literature, these findings significantly increase the electrocatalyst's active sites and OER activity.[17,27,32]

Figure S1 and S2, Supporting Information demonstrate the energy-dispersive X-ray spectra (EDX) of CoFe2<sup>x</sup>ZrxS4/N-rGO (x = 0.05, 0.1). These results confirm the presence of Co, Fe, O, S, Zr, C, and N in the prepared nanocomposites. The atomic percentage of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO (Co:Fe:Zr:S) is 1:1.52:0.28:2.28, which validates the formation of ZCFS and ZrS2 (Table S1, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the emergence of S vacancies was confirmed by the high (Fe þ Co þ Zr)/S ratio (1.48), as well as the (Fe þ Zr)/Co ratio. These vacancies generate an oxy-hydroxy phase, which is an active site for the adsorption of intermediates.

Figure 3. FESEM characterization of CoFe2xZrxSO4/N-GO thiospinel cobalt ferrite nanoparticles on nitrogen-doped GO sheets with various zirconium substitutions in the octahedral spinel matrix. a–c) CFS, d–f ) CFS/N-RGO, g–i) Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO, and j–l) Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO.

Here, the primary factors that contribute to the high oxygen content are the hydrothermal synthesis, dry process, and nitrogendoped reduced graphene oxide.

#### 2.5. HR-TEM Analysis

The energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy employs the elemental mapping of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO as shown in Figure 4a–h, which confirms the existence of Co, Fe, S, O, N, and C and their distribution in the surface of the electrocatalyst. The elemental composition of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO and Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO samples can be found in Table S1, Supporting Information, confirming that Zr was successfully substituted into the CFS catalysts during hydrothermal synthesis. In this process, Zr has been integrated with B site Fe cations to adjust the electronic structure and size of CFS/N-RGO to enhance the exposure of more active sites on the surface of the catalysts. The HR-TEM analysis revealed that the Zr-incorporated CFS nanoparticles are distributed over wrinkled N-RGO sheets (Figure 4i–l).

The calculated interplanar lattice fringe space (d) is about (Figure 4n,o) 0.256 and 0.31 nm diameter, which can be attributed to (311) and (220) planes of CoFe2S4 respectively, as compared with the standard lattice spacing of 0.253 and 0.297 nm.[13,32,41] Consequently, HR-TEM results revealed that Zr is decorated on the surface of the Co─Fe─S. The critical insight into the structural properties of the catalyst was provided by selected area electron diffraction (SAED) displayed in Figure 4p. The diffused SAED pattern suggests the presence of disorder and defects, which may favor surface reconstruction by multiple phases of metal sulfides.[42] The synergistic effect between these phases may enhance the electrocatalytic performance and stability.

#### 2.6. XPS Analysis

The XPS technique offers a detailed quantitative analysis of the chemical valence states of core elements, elemental composition, and the effect of doping cations on the valence states across all the prepared samples. Figure 5 and Table S2, Supporting Information present the core-level spectra of C 1s,N1s,O1s, S 2p, Co 2p, Fe 2p, and Zr 3d, resulting from the spin-orbit splitting of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO. The survey spectra, corresponding core spectra, and compositions of other samples are provided in Figure S3–S5 and Table S2, Supporting Information. As shown in Co 2p spectra (Figure 5f and S3–S5, Supporting Information), the peak at ≈782.18 eV (Co3þ) is attributed to the overlap of the Co 2p3/2 peak with the Fe LM2 Auger peak. The peak at 784.83 eV (Co<sup>2</sup>þ) is accompanied by two satellite peaks at 787.61 and 790.94 eV, ascribed to Co 2p3/2. Similarly, peaks at 798 eV (Co3þ) and 800.1 eV (Co2þ), along with a shakeup satellite peak at 803.56 eV, are assigned to Co 2p1/2. [13] The satellite peak at 790.94 eV is attributed to the photoionization effect of Co-O species.[43,44] This confirms the coexistence of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>þ</sup> and Co<sup>2</sup><sup>þ</sup> in the spinel sites, with Co<sup>2</sup><sup>þ</sup> occupying the Oh sites. The spin-orbit splitting energy (Δ) between the Co 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 peaks is ≈15.82– 16.78 eV, with all sample values closely aligned to this range, irrespective of doping. Moreover, Zr substitution shifts the binding energy to higher values due to the Co<sup>2</sup><sup>þ</sup> to Co<sup>3</sup><sup>þ</sup> transition. On the other hand, from Fe 2p XPS spectra (Figure 5g and S3–S5, Supporting Information), the two peaks (711.1 and 713.12 eV) with two satellite peaks (716 and 719.63 eV) are ascribed to Fe3<sup>þ</sup> and Fe2<sup>þ</sup> ions of the Fe 2p3/2. Similarly, two peaks (723.95 and 726.5 eV) are attributed to Fe3<sup>þ</sup> and Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>þ</sup> ions of the Fe 2p1/2. [20] These results demonstrate the coexistence of Fe3<sup>þ</sup> and Fe2<sup>þ</sup> ions at the spinel ferrite sites.

Figure 4. a–h) EDX-elemental mapping of Zr, Co, Fe, S, O, N, and C; i–o) HRTEM images and lattice fringes with different magnifications; and p) SAED pattern of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO.

In contrast to Co 2p, the spin-orbit splitting energy (Δ) of the Fe 2p peak in Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO and CFS is around 13.81 eV, while other samples exhibit slight changes in their splitting energy values. The deconvoluted Co 2p and Fe 2p peaks exhibit binding energy shifts caused by Zr and N-RGO substitution, attributed to changes in their electronic structure. The literature indicates that doping, synthesis methods, and calcination temperature affect the degree of inversion and cation distribution in spinel ferrites.[20] Hence, the integration of Zr and N-RGO into the CFS lattice changes cation occupation, the degree of inversion in spinel ferrites, and their electronic structure. Moreover, Figure 5h and S5h, Supporting Information reveal that Zr 3d XPS spectra peaks at 182.56 and 184.96 eV represent Zr 3d5/2 and 3d1/2 states of Zr<sup>4</sup>þ. [45] It is evident from Zr 3d that the higher concentration of Zr increases the peak intensity, inferred by survey spectra. The ingestion of Zr<sup>4</sup><sup>þ</sup> amplifies the peak intensity of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>þ</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup>þ, resulting from the delocalization of electron density within the CFS. The corresponding S 2p spectra (Figure 5e and S3b, S4d, and S5e, Supporting Information) are resolved into two peaks, pertained at 168.7 and 169.9 eV, attributed to S 2p3/2 and S 2p1/2 of S─O in SO4 2-, respectively.[7] The observed shift to higher binding energy (1.2 eV) in the CFS/N-RGO, Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO, and Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO in contrast to CFS, is owing to their interaction with C, N, and Zr. These results revealed that there is no obvious shift in the sulfate peak after the introduction of Zr. In contrast, CFS showed two distinct lower binding energy peaks at 162.5 and 166.89 eV, ascribed to S2 2 and SO4 2-, respectively. Interestingly, this S2 2 peak completely disappeared when integrated with N-RGO and Zr, which formed sulfate owing to more oxygen vacancies by altering oxygen adsorption energy on GO. The C 1s spectra (Figure 5b and S4a and S5b, Supporting Information) revealed four peaks corresponding to C═C (283.78 eV), C─C (284.83 eV), C─N─S─O (285.6 eV), and C═O (288.79 eV).[46] Figure 5c, S4b, and S5c, Supporting Information display the deconvoluted core N 1s XPS spectra. The attained peaks at 401.5 and 400.08 eV are attributed

Figure 5. a) XPS survey spectrum of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO and b–h) corresponding XPS core spectra of C 1s,N1s,O1s,S2p, Co 2p, Fe 2p, and Zr 3d.

to graphitic-N (C─N) and pyrrolic-N, respectively.[12,47–49] The Zr integrated with CFS, substantially modified C 1s and N 1s spectra. The C─N bond indicated that nitrogen is doped with graphene oxide (GO) and a higher percentage of graphitic N enhances the stability. The acquired O 1s spectra of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO is shown in Figure 5d and S4c and S5d, Supporting Information and deconvoluted into M-O (530.18 eV), higher oxygen vacancy Ov or defect sites (531.92 eV), and water adsorbed surface species (532.68 eV).[13] Also, Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO acquired a high percentage of Ov and water-absorbed surface species. Hence, Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO exhibited the highest atomic percentages of Co, Zr, and the optimum sulfur (Table S2, Supporting Information), Co3þ/ Co2<sup>þ</sup> (Table S3, Supporting Information), and high Fe3þ/Fe2<sup>þ</sup> (Table S4, Supporting Information) values, which are the key factors for enhanced OER performance. Also from Figure 5, Zr incorporation into CFS altered the coexistence of Fe3<sup>þ</sup> and Fe2<sup>þ</sup> ions and the binding energy values of Fe, Co, N, Zr, O, and S ions, which in turn affects the electrocatalytic activity.

# 2.7. Electrochemical Analysis

#### 2.7.1. OER Performance

A series of electrochemical experiments, including linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), cyclic voltammetry (CV), and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), were employed to assess the intrinsic electrocatalytic performance of cobalt ferrite sulfide (CFS) modified by zirconium (Zr) substituted nitrogen-doped reduced graphene oxide (N-RGO). The LSV curves recorded in N2-saturated 1 M KOH electrolyte at a scan rate of 5 mV s-1 (Figure 6a, Supporting Information) demonstrated that Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO exhibits the most efficient OER performance among the synthesized catalysts, with activity comparable to that of the commercial RuO2 catalyst, as summarized in Table 1. CFS/ N-RGO and Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO exhibit overpotentials of 473 and 472 mV, respectively, which are comparatively higher and attributed to catalyst particle agglomeration, which compromises the interfacial interaction between the thiospinel ferrites and the N-RGO sheets. The resulting weak coupling impedes efficient charge transfer across the interface, thereby diminishing the overall electrochemical performance.[50] The OER performance of CFS, CFS/N-RGO, and Zr0.05CFS/N-RGO suggests that the activity is primarily by the transition metals rather than N-RGO support. Moreover, Zr and S play a vital role in generating oxygen and sulfur vacancies on the catalyst surface during OER performance.

Although Zr itself exhibits negligible OER activity, as a highly electropositive element with a stable <sup>þ</sup>4 oxidation state, Zr<sup>4</sup><sup>þ</sup> modulates the electronic environment CoFe2S4 lattice through cation redistribution of Co and Fe between the A and B sites. They induce charge imbalance and lead to the formation of cationic or anionic (sulfur/oxygen) vacancies. These defect sites serve to increase the density of active centers and facilitate the adsorption and desorption of key OER intermediates (e.g., OH-, OOH-), ultimately improving catalytic efficiency.[32] In addition, during OER, the relatively lower electronegativity of sulfur facilitates its preferential leaching from metal–sulfur (M─S) bonds, resulting in the formation of sulfur vacancies. These defects increase the number of coordinatively unsaturated metal centers and promote the adsorption of hydroxide ions (OH-), a crucial step for OER.[42,51–53] Consequently, Zr and S alter the bandgap and binding energies of Co and Fe ions, thereby facilitating the adsorption energy and stabilization of OH\*, O\*, and OOH\* intermediates on the catalyst surface. Also, nitrogen-doped carbon facilitates the OH adsorption and promotes the charge transfer between the adsorption intermediates and the catalyst's surface.[21] These adsorption energy values determine the OER kinetics. This effect not only accelerates the reaction kinetics but also stabilizes the active phases under OER conditions.

During electrocatalysis, the surface undergoes reconstruction into active oxyhydroxide species such as Co(Fe)-OOH, which serve as the real catalytic centers. The higher energy level of sulfur anions facilitates electron removal from M─S bonds, promoting the formation of oxyhydroxide intermediates.[42,51] Structurally, partial Zr substitution within the CFS lattice notably alters the Fe<sup>3</sup>þ/Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>þ</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup>þ/Co<sup>2</sup><sup>þ</sup> ratios. At lower substitution

25, 14, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ej;202500082 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 6. a) Measured LSV curves recorded at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> scan rate in nitrogen saturated 1 M KOH solution, b) Tafel plots, and corresponding c) exchange current density from extrapolated Tafel plot and d) EIS of CFS and CoFe<sub>2-x</sub>Zr<sub>x</sub>S<sub>4</sub>/N-RGO (x = 0, 0.05, 0.1 M) material recorded at 1.7 V.

| <b>Table 1.</b> Comparisons of OER performances of prepared CFS, CFS/N-RGO, $Zr_{0.05}CFS/N$ -RGO, $Zr_{0.1}CFS/N$ -RGO, and $RuO_2$ materials by RDE analysis at a scan rate of 5 mV s <sup>-1</sup> . |                                                        |                                     |                             |                                    |                                                |                      |                         |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------|
| Samples                                                                                                                                                                                                 | $E_{\rm OER} \ @ \ 10 \ {\rm mA \ cm^{-2}} \ [{ m V}]$ | Tafel slope [mV dec <sup>-1</sup> ] | $R_{CT}\left[\Omega\right]$ | Mass activity [A g <sup>-1</sup> ] | $J_{\rm o}~{\rm [mA~cm^{-2}]}~{\rm (10^{-3})}$ | C <sub>dl</sub> [mF] | ECSA [cm <sup>2</sup> ] |
| CFS                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 1.71                                                   | 67                                  | 431                         | 41.7                               | 0.44                                           | 0.000065             | 0.00153                 |
| CFS/NRGO                                                                                                                                                                                                | 1.73                                                   | 77                                  | 468                         | 26.1                               | 0.64                                           | 0.000056             | 0.0014                  |
| Zr <sub>0.05</sub> CFS/NRGO                                                                                                                                                                             | 1.72                                                   | 98                                  | 492                         | 36.7                               | 1                                              | 0.000023             | 0.00059                 |
| Zr <sub>0.1</sub> CFS/NRGO                                                                                                                                                                              | 1.70                                                   | 55                                  | 279                         | 50                                 | 1.5                                            | 0.000036             | 0.00091                 |
| RuO <sub>2</sub>                                                                                                                                                                                        | 1.61                                                   | 97                                  | 1863                        | 200                                | 79                                             | 0.00065              | 0.0016                  |

levels (e.g., Zr<sub>0.05</sub>CFS/N-RGO), excess Fe<sup>3+</sup> populates the octahedral sites, thereby limiting Co<sup>2+</sup> occupancy and diminishing OER activity. In contrast, higher Zr loading (Zr<sub>0.1</sub>) increases Co<sup>2+</sup> concentration in octahedral sites, tuning the local electronic environment and enhancing catalytic performance through optimized redox cycling. These substitutions also induce lattice strain and electronic redistribution, which improve orbital overlap and facilitate faster electron transfer.[32,42] Thus, Zr:Co:Fe of equal molar ratio delivers a low overpotential. To probe the OER kinetics. Tafel slope analysis was carried out by plotting overpotential against the logarithm of current density derived from the LSV results (Figure 6b). Among the investigated catalysts, Zr<sub>0.1</sub>CFS/N-RGO catalyst exhibited the lowest Tafel slope of 65 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, indicating their faster electron transfer rates and favorable reaction kinetics. Notably, Zr<sub>0.1</sub>CFS/N-RGO exhibited the highest exchange current density  $(J_0)$  of  $1.5 \times 10^{-3}$  mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a key indicator of intrinsic catalytic activity, suggesting its more favorable reaction kinetics compared to other samples. Mass activity, the current output normalized by the mass of the catalyst (in A g<sup>-1</sup>) is an important parameter in the oxygen evaluation of nanostructured electrocatalysts, which often feature highly dispersed active sites, complex morphologies.

or nonplanar and roughened surfaces. [54] Among the synthesized catalysts,  $Zr_{0.1}CFS/N$ -RGO demonstrates a notably high mass activity value of 50 A  $g^{-1}$ , revealing the enhanced catalytic efficiency per unit mass. This suggests that their efficient exposure to active sites and favorable intrinsic electrocatalytic characteristics contribute to their overall superior OER performance.

The kinetics of the prepared samples are revealed by the EIS spectra collected at a potential of 1.7 V (Figure 6d), further corroborating these findings. Zr<sub>0.1</sub>CFS/N-RGO showed the lowest charge transfer resistance ( $R_{ct} \approx 293 \,\Omega$ ), reflecting accelerated electron transport across the electrode-electrolyte interface. The EIS spectra of the other catalysts show no significant change in  $R_{CT}$  values upon N-RGO incorporation, confirming that the enhancement in activity primarily arises from Zr substitution. which effectively modulates the electronic structures of Co and Fe cations. This improvement is attributed to the enhanced electrical conductivity arising from optimal Zr incorporation with Co and Fe, S, and N-RGO hybridization, which together create a synergistic interaction network between the transition metal centers and the conductive carbon matrix.[13,32] From Raman analysis. an increased  $I_D/I_G$  ratio upon  $Zr^{4+}$  substitution indicates the greater structural disorder and defect formation within the

N-RGO matrix.[34,37] Interestingly, the defective D band becomes sharper in Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO compared to lower Zr content samples and CFS/N-RGO, suggesting a more uniform defect structure within the graphene framework. This may be attributed to the systematic incorporation of Zr<sup>4</sup>þ, which modulates the local coordination environment by stabilizing defect formation. Moreover, the particle size and shape of the ZCFS/N-RGO nanoparticles depend on the Fe:Zr ratio, and it increases with increasing Zr substitution. To compensate for the high positive charge of Zr<sup>4</sup>þ, cobalt and iron species within the material exhibit mixed valence states (Co<sup>2</sup>þ/Co<sup>3</sup><sup>þ</sup> and Fe2þ/Fe3þ), as evidenced by XPS analysis. This phenomenon facilitates electron hopping between the different oxidation states of cobalt and iron, consequently enhancing the material's conductivity.[55] Furthermore, the introduction of doping leads to an increase in sulfur vacancies, which also contributes to a rise in conductivity.

CV in the non-Faradaic region was employed to estimate the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) through double-layer capacitance (Cdl) measurements (Figure S6, Supporting Information). Among the tested samples, Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO exhibited a Cdl value of 0.000036 mF and a corresponding electrochemically active surface area of 0.00091 cm2 , comparable to that of RuO2. This observation indicates a higher density of accessible active sites, likely attributed to synergistic electronic interactions, heteroatom doping, and an optimized spinel framework. In conclusion, the superior OER performance of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO can be ascribed to multiple synergistic factors, including 1) enhanced conductivity, mass activity, and charge transfer due to Zr doping and S integration; 2) optimized redox-active metal site distribution within the spinel lattice; 3) surface reconstruction into oxyhydroxide phases; and 4) increased density of oxygen/sulfur vacancies, which together create a favorable electronic and structural environment for efficient OER performance. Further increasing the Zr substitution disrupts the optimal cation distribution and leads to a reduction in the population of OER-active sites, resulting in diminished catalytic activity.[18] The optimum introduction of Zr plays a key role in enhancing the catalytic performance.

#### 2.8. Stability and Postanalysis

Chronoamperometry (CA) analysis was performed to validate the durability of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO in 1 M KOH solution and compared with benchmark RuO2 catalysts, which ensures their efficiency and durability in energy conversion applications. The electrode was prepared using carbon cloth of cross area 1 1 cm2 with 0.6 mg cm-<sup>2</sup> mass loading and dried at ambient temperature. At a constant potential of 1.7 V versus RHE for 12 h, Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO has retained 91% of the relative current, owing to the synergistic interaction between Zr, N-RGO, and the cobalt ferrite, whereas RuO2 suffers a significant loss in the relative current and retains only about 45% due to dissolution at high oxidative potentials (Figure 7a). This outcome ensures the remarkable durability of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO over a prolonged potential condition. The structural stability and degradation of the Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO over a prolonged CA stability analysis gives an insight into their chemical and morphological alterations. Zr and N-RGO stabilize the CFS and may reduce metal leaching. Figure 7b reveals the acquired XRD pattern of the Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO catalyst after 12 h stability analysis. From the XRD pattern, the catalyst almost retained the same phase with some new broadened peaks at 43.16° (400), and 52.96° (422).[16] The observed additional peaks are due to the surface reconstruction during OER and peak broadening indicates the increased disorder in crystallinity. Particularly, during oxidation, S bonds with transition metals are prone to oxidizing easily and form their oxides and sulfates. This finding was further validated by Raman spectroscopy results, as in Figure 7c. The T2g and A1g vibrational peaks (371.6 to 990 cm-1 ) of CoFeZr sulfide associated with N-RGO are shifted, overlapped, and broadened, with a reduction in peak intensity, which was attributed to S oxidation, surface defects, and surface reconstruction, and roughness.[29] The CFZS catalyst undergoes surface reconstruction due to surface oxidation and high oxidation potentials during electrolysis. Additionally, the weakly bound surface S anions in Co─Fe─S promote leaching and create sulfur vacancies. These sulfur vacancies alter the electronic structure of CFS and promote the adsorption of water intermediates, thereby enhancing stability and performance.[6,42] Also, M─S bonds are dissoluted and form more O(OH) and M(SO4) during OER.[52] These oxy-hydroxides form a layer on the surface, which inhibits sulfur dissolution and improves stability. The increase in ID/I<sup>G</sup> (1.001) ratio reveals the degree of disorder with more OH on the surface. These results demonstrated that Zr enhances the electrochemical performance, structural stability, and conductivity of CFS/N-RGO, exhibiting activity comparable to previously reported OER catalysts (Table S7, Supporting Information). Even though the Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO catalyst

Figure 7. a) Long-term stability—CA analysis at an applied voltage of 1.7 V, in nitrogen gas saturated 1 M KOH solution, and corresponding post b) XRD and c) Raman analysis of Zr0.1CFS/N-RGO catalysts after 12 h stability process.

Chemistry Europe European Chemical Societies Publishing

demonstrated a comparatively high overpotential compared to others listed in Table S7, Supporting Information, its superior stability makes it an ideal candidate for practical applications.

### 3. Conclusion

In summary, Zr-substituted thiospinel cobalt ferrite nanocomposites decorated on nitrogen-doped graphene oxide were successfully synthesized via a cost-effective hydrothermal-assisted coprecipitation method for OER applications. The morphology of the resulting nanoparticles is strongly influenced by the Fe:Zr molar ratio (2:0, 3:1, and 1:1), where increasing Zr incorporation induces a morphological transition from rod-like structure to hexagonal structure, accompanied by enhanced surface roughness and agglomeration effects attributed to the intrinsic magnetic properties of cobalt ferrites. Zr substitution modulates the particle size and alters the electronic structure and binding energies of the Co, Fe, and S active sites within the CFS nanoparticles, as well as C, N, and O in the N-RGO matrix. Additionally, it influences the cation distribution and degree of inversion within the spinel lattice, which facilitates an optimal arrangement of Fe<sup>3+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup> ions at octahedral sites. The synergistic interplay among the trimetallic system (Co, Fe, Zr) and N-RGO significantly enhances electrochemical activity. Nitrogen doping further improves interfacial charge transfer kinetics between the conductive support and active sites. Notably, Zr<sub>0.1</sub>CFS/N-RGO (Co:Fe:Zr = 1:1:1) exhibited the best performance, achieving a low overpotential of 470 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, high mass activity of 50 A g<sup>-1</sup>, and excellent electrochemical stability comparable to that of commercial RuO2 catalysts. This study highlights the importance of compositional tuning and structural engineering in optimizing spinel ferrites, offering a promising route for the rational design of high-performance and stable electrocatalysts for practical alkaline water electrolysis. These insights provide a strategic foundation for the rational development of nextgeneration transition metal sulfide-based electrocatalysts for sustainable energy conversion and storage applications.

# 4. Experimental Section

#### **Materials Section**

Cobalt (II) nitrate hexahydrate and Nafion were acquired from Sigma-Aldrich. Zirconyl nitrate hydrate (anhydrous, 25-30%) and ammonium hydroxide (AR 25%) solution were purchased from SRL/Sisco Research Lab. Pvt. Ltd. Iron nitrate nonahydrate is procured from Merck. Sodium sulfide (anhydrous, Fe-free 60%) was acquired from Loba Chemie Pvt. Ltd. Urea has been hired from Molychem. Commercial graphene oxide powder is purchased from the local market. The obtained chemicals were directly used without further purification.

#### **Materials Structure Characterization**

The crystal structure and compositions of the prepared materials were affirmed with an advanced X-ray diffractometer (Bruker D8 powder XRD) running at 40 kV in the range of 10-80 $^{\circ}$  with Cu K<sub> $\alpha$ </sub> as the source at a scan rate of 0.02° s<sup>-1</sup>. The structure of the samples is further investigated by laser-assisted Raman spectra (LabRam HR evaluation by Horina Jobin Yvon,  $\lambda = 532 \, \text{nm}$ ). IR Affinity-1S (Shimadzu) infrared spectrum analyzer was employed to analyze the functional groups and vibrational modes of the prepared materials. The surface morphology, elemental mapping, and the existing elements were visualized using Carl Zeiss SIGMA 300 FESEM (V = 50-30 kV). The intricate morphology, microstructure, and dimensional data of synthesized materials are distinctly investigated by HRTEM (FEI, Tecnai G220 S, Netherland, and 200 kV). The elemental composition, electronic states, and cationic distribution of core elements of as prepared Zr-substituted cobalt iron sulfide were extensively examined by MULTI LAB 200 Thermo-scientific X-ray photoelectron microscopy.

#### Working Electrode Preparation

To prepare the working electrode, 4.713 mg of CFZS sample was mixed with 1 mL of 0.5% Nafion binder and ethanol solution and then ultrasonicated for 45 min. Then, 3  $\mu L$  of the resulting homogeneous black slurry was applied to the GC electrode (0.0707 cm<sup>2</sup>) which makes the optimum loading of 0.2 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>, and left to dry at room temperature overnight. A similar procedure was used to prepare all the catalysts.

#### **Electrochemical Characterization**

The intrinsic electrochemical performances of the prepared CFZS samples were carried out using a bi-potentiostat AUTOLAB PGSTAT 302 N, a three-electrode electrochemical workstation using a PINE RDE with NOVA 1.1 software. All the analyses were carried out in 1 M KOH base electrolyte medium. Ag/AgCl was used as the reference electrode, the graphite rod as a counter electrode, and the glassy carbon electrode as the working electrode to evaluate the OER performance. The LSV was conceded at a scan rate of 5 mV s $^{-1}$ . The ECSA and double layer capacitance ( $C_{\text{dI}}$ ) values were obtained from CV at various sweep scan rates of 2, 5, 10, 20, and 25 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in the non-Faradaic potential region. The stability of the catalyst was tested over 12 h at a potential of 1.7 V versus RHE by the CA method, where carbon cloth of cross area  $1 \times 1 \text{ cm}^2$  with  $0.6\,\mathrm{mg\,cm^{-2}}$  mass loading was used as a working electrode. Moreover, the EIS was performed in the frequency range of 1000 kHz to 0.01 Hz to study the kinetics and interfacial properties at 1.7 V versus RHE in 1 M KOH solution. All the obtained electrode potentials (versus the standard Ag/AgCl electrode potential) are measured as RHE potential.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledge Chikkaiah Naicker College (Affiliated with Bharathiar University, Coimbatore), Erode, Tamil Nadu, India, for providing the required lab facilities and support to carry out the research work.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

[doi.org/10.1002/ejic.202500082](http://doi.org/10.1002/ejic.202500082)

Keywords: charge distribution · cobalt iron sulfides · oxygen evolution reaction · zirconium

- [1] M. I. Jamesh, J. Power Sources 2016, 333, 213.
- [2] Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, Chem. Eur. J. 2020, 26, 3897.
- [3] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 16977.
- [4] A. Kundu, S. Mallick, S. Ghora, C. R. Raj, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2021, 13, 40172.
- [5] K. Zhang, R. Zou, Small 2021, 17, 1.
- [6] A. Sivanantham, P. Ganesan, A. Vinu, S. Shanmugam, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 463.
- [7] F. Zeng, C. Broicher, J. P. Hofmann, S. Palkovits, R. Palkovits, ChemCatChem 2020, 12, 710.
- [8] M. Wang, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, S. Shen, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 1855.
- [9] Q. Zhao, Z. Yan, C. Chen, J. Chen, Chem. Rev. 2017, 117, 10121.
- [10] P. Babar, J. Mahmood, R. V. Maligal-Ganesh, S. J. Kim, Z. Xue, C. T. Yavuz, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 20218.
- [11] J. Mei, Y. Deng, X. Cheng, X. Wang, Q. Wu, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2024, 35, 108900.
- [12] G. S. Dias, J. M. Costa, A. F. de Almeida Neto, Adv. Colloid Interface Sci. 2023, 315, 102891.
- [13] L. Huang, D. Chen, G. Luo, Y. R. Lu, C. Chen, Y. Zou, C. L. Dong, Y. Li, S. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1.
- [14] A. K. Mageed, A. B. Dayang Radiah, A. Salmiaton, S. Izhar, M. Abdul Razak, H. M. Yusoff, F. M. Yasin, S. Kamarudin, Int. J. Appl. Chem. 2016, 12, 104.
- [15] J. S. Sanchez, Z. Xia, K. Mirehbar, S. Sasidharan, S. A. Aravindh, A. Liscio, J. Sun, M. Christian, J. Palma, V. Palermo, R. Marcilla, J. Mater. Chem. A 2024, 12, 11945.
- [16] K. H. Kenari, A. Bahari, M. S. Lashkenari, J. Energy Storage 2023, 74, 109274.
- [17] S. Kalia, N. Prasad, Inorg. Chem. Commun. 2023, 147, 110201.
- [18] N. Wei, S. Zhang, X. Yao, X. Hu, Z. Sun, V. Nica, J. Yang, Q. Zhou, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47, 35254.
- [19] S. Anantharaj, K. Karthick, P. Murugan, S. Kundu, Inorg. Chem. 2020, 59, 730.
- [20] V. Kashyap, S. Kurungot, ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 3715.
- [21] B. Wu, H. Meng, D. M. Morales, F. Zeng, J. Zhu, B. Wang, M. Risch, Z. J. Xu, T. Petit, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 204137.
- [22] S. Shit, P. Samanta, S. Bolar, N. C. Murmu, T. Kuila, Electrochim. Acta 2020, 362, 137146.
- [23] A. Hardiansyah, G. K. Sunnardianto, S. A. Pradanawati, D. M. Aditya, T. Kida, T. Y. Liu, Mater. Today Commun. 2024, 38, 107740.
- [24] T. Wu, Y. Sun, X. Ren, J. Wang, J. Song, Y. Pan, Y. Mu, J. Zhang, Q. Cheng, G. Xian, S. Xi, C. Shen, H. J. Gao, A. C. Fisher, M. P. Sherburne, Y. Du, J. W. Ager, J. Gracia, H. Yang, L. Zeng, Z. J. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 207041.
- [25] P. Motavallian, B. Abasht, H. Abdollah-Pour, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 2018, 451, 577.
- [26] G. He, J. Wang, X. Lv, S. Lu, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2025, 683, 901.
- [27] S. Kavitha, M. Kurian, J. Alloys Compd. 2019, 799, 147.
- [28] K. Henry, J. V. Ahlburg, H. L. Andersen, C. Granados-Miralles, M. Stingaciu, M. Saura-Múzquiz, M. Christensen, J. Appl. Crystallogr. 2022, 55, 1336.
- [29] D. H. Manh, T. D. Thanh, T. L. Phan, D. S. Yang, RSC Adv. 2023, 13, 8163.
- [30] M. S. I. Sarker, A. Kumar, M. M. Haque, M. M. Rahman, M. K. R. Khan, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 2022, 541, 168542.

- [31] X. Wang, Z. Li, Y. Zhang, Q. Li, H. Du, F. Liu, X. Zhang, H. Mu, J. Duan, Chem. Eng. J. 2022, 429, 132270.
- [32] Y. Ait el haj, M. Elansary, K. Minaoui, M. Ibeniaich, Y. Belaiche, C. A. Ferdi, O. Oulhakem, Y. Mouhib, E. Iffer, O. M. Lemine, B. Salameh, A. M. Alsmadi, K. B. Alaoui, Mater. Today Commun. 2024, 40, 109838.
- [33] K. I. Hadjiivanov, D. A. Panayotov, M. Y. Mihaylov, E. Z. Ivanova, K. K. Chakarova, S. M. Andonova, N. L. Drenchev, Chem. Rev. 2021, 121, 1286.
- [34] L. Bokobza, J.-L. Bruneel, M. Couzi, C 2015, 1, 77.
- [35] S. Choi, C. Kim, J. M. Suh, H. W. Jang, Carbon Energy 2019, 1, 85.
- [36] Y. Zhang, S. Wei, P. Xing, L. Dai, Y. Wang, J. Electroanal. Chem. 2023, 936, 117323.
- [37] V. B. Mohan, M. Nieuwoudt, K. Jayaraman, D. Bhattacharyya, Graphene Technol. 2017, 2, 47.
- [38] M. Parastar Gharehlar, S. Sheshmani, F. R. Nikmaram, Z. Doroudi, Sci. Rep. 2024, 14, 1.
- [39] D. Du, P. Li, J. Ouyang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2015, 7, 26952.
- [40] H. P. Somasundharam, V. Duraisamy, N. Manju, ChemistrySelect 2024, 9, e202304194.
- [41] D. Cao, L. Pan, J. Li, X. Cheng, Z. Zhao, J. Xu, Q. Li, X. Wang, S. Li, J. Wang, Q. Liu, Sci. Rep. 2018, 8, 1.
- [42] S. Zhang, Y. Cheng, P. Wang, X. Lei, J. You, R. Guo, H. Zhang, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2024, 51, 545.
- [43] C. Linder, S. G. Rao, A. le Febvrier, G. Greczynski, R. Sjövall, S. Munktell, P. Eklund, E. M. Björk, Surf. Coat. Technol. 2020, 404, 126643.
- [44] T. Van Nguyen, L. T. Son, V. Van Thuy, V. D. Thao, M. Hatsukano, K. Higashimine, S. Maenosono, S. E. Chun, T. V. Thu, Dalton Trans. 2020, 49, 6718.
- [45] S. Gunasekaran, K. Thanrasu, A. Manikandan, M. Durka, A. Dinesh, S. Anand, S. Shankar, Y. Slimani, M. A. Almessiere, A. Baykal, Phys. B 2021, 605, 412784.
- [46] A. Fujimoto, Y. Yamada, M. Koinuma, S. Sato, Anal. Chem. 2016, 88, 6110.
- [47] V. Duraisamy, S. Venkateshwaran, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47, 40327.
- [48] V. Duraisamy, V. Sudha, V. Dharuman, S. M. Senthil Kumar, ACS Biomater. Sci. Eng. 2022, 9, 1682.
- [49] V. Duraisamy, N. Arumugam, A. I. Almansour, Y. Wang, T. X. Liu, S. M. S. Kumar, Colloids Surf., A 2023, 656, 130347.
- [50] P. Shinde, C. S. Rout, D. Late, P. K. Tyagi, M. K. Singh, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2021, 46, 2617.
- [51] T. Wu, Y. Sun, X. Ren, J. Wang, J. Song, Y. Pan, Y. Mu, J. Zhang, Q. Cheng, G. Xian, S. Xi, C. Shen, H. J. Gao, A. C. Fisher, M. P. Sherburne, Y. Du, J. W. Ager, J. Gracia, H. Yang, L. Zeng, Z. J. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2207041.
- [52] S. Natarajan, V. Duraisamy, M. Subramani, S. M. S. Kumar, S. Ponnusamy, Catal. Commun. 2023, 184, 106796.
- [53] R. Santhosh Kumar, S. Ramakrishnan, S. Prabhakaran, A. R. Kim, D. R. Kumar, D. H. Kim, D. J. Yoo, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 1999.
- [54] S. Anantharaj, K. Karthick, S. Kundu, Mater. Today Energy 2017, 6, 1.
- [55] S. A. Carminati, B. L. da Silva, J. L. Bott-Neto, M. A. de Melo, M. T. Galante, P. S. Fernández, C. Longo, J. A. Bonacin, A. F. Nogueira, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2020, 3, 10097.

Manuscript received: February 17, 2025 Revised manuscript received: April 29, 2025 Version of record online: May 19, 2025