---
source: Peng 等 - 2022 - Filling Octahedral Interstices by Building Geometrical Defects to Construct Active Sites for Boostin.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 37.825s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:41:14.316570Z
---

www.afm-journal.de

# Filling Octahedral Interstices by Building Geometrical Defects to Construct Active Sites for Boosting the Oxygen Evolution Reaction on NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>

Yang Peng, Churong Huang, Jingle Huang, Min Feng, Xinzhuo Qiu, Xin Yue,\* and Shaoming Huang\*

Owing to the faster kinetics and outstanding catalytic performance, spinel oxides are regarded as a potential non-precious metal electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Regulation of the geometrical structures of the spinel oxides is one of the most effective approaches for enhancing their OER performance. However, more wide and deep investigations remain because of the structural complexity of spinel oxides, for example, how to fill the unoccupied octahedral interstices to construct a large number of active sites for boosting the OER. Herein, iron foam (IF) supported NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocubes with high occupancy at octahedral sites (HOoct-NFO NC/IF) are synthesized by hydrothermal method followed by anchoring and annealing. Detailed structural characterizations indicate that the foreign Fe cations can be filled into the octahedral interstices along the geometrical defects channel of transition metal cations coordinated with six oxygen anions (TMO<sub>6</sub>) by etching TMO<sub>6</sub> units with an anchoring agent. As a result of the increasing of TMO<sub>5</sub> sites with better activity and tuning of the electronic structures, the as-fabricated HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC/IF electrocatalysts exhibit excellent performance for OER with overpotentials of 260 and 310 mV to reach 10 and 400 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Meanwhile, the catalysts show faster kinetics and superior stability.

1. Introduction

Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is considered as a crucial half-reaction of various electrochemical energy conversion processes,<sup>[1]</sup> for example, hydrogen production through electrochemical water splitting,<sup>[2]</sup> nitrogen reduction reaction,<sup>[3]</sup> metal-air batteries,<sup>[4]</sup> and so on. However, due to the formation

Y. Peng, C. Huang, J. Huang, M. Feng, X. Qiu, X. Yue, S. Huang Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Low-Dimensional Materials and Energy Storage Devices

Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Energy Materials School of Materials and Energy

Guangdong University of Technology Guangzhou 510006, P. R. China

E-mail: xinyue@gdut.edu.cn; smhuang@gdut.edu.cn

Y. Peng, C. Huang, J. Huang, M. Feng, X. Qiu, X. Yue, S. Huang Synergy Innovation Institute of GDUT

Guangdong University of Technology Heyuan 517001, P. R. China

(D)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202201011.

DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202201011

and transfer of complicated intermediates with four electron-proton process and the final production of O<sub>2</sub>, OER exhibits limited kinetics as well as high overpotential to overcome the energy barrier.<sup>[5]</sup> Although precious metal electrocatalysts exhibit acceptable performance, high costs, scarce resources, and poor stabilities restrict their large-scale and industrial applications.<sup>[6]</sup> Therefore, it is a key issue to design and develop low-cost and earthabundant non-precious metal electrocatalysts for OER with efficient activities and stabilities.<sup>[7]</sup>

Owing to the promising performance of OER, transition metal (TM) oxides have attracted more and more attention, including spinel oxides (AB<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>), perovskite oxides,<sup>[8]</sup> layered double hydroxides (LDHs),<sup>[9]</sup> and so on. Especially, AB<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is regarded as a potential candidate for OER to replace precious metals due to their outstanding catalytic activity. The crystal structure of AB<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> consists of the cubic-

packed O anions along with the TM cations filling into the octahedral interstices composed of six O anions and tetrahedral interstices formed by four O anions. Among them, half of 32 octahedral interstices are filled by the TM cations (TMoct) and one eighth of 64 tetrahedral interstices are occupied by the TM cations (TM<sub>td</sub>).<sup>[10]</sup> In general, the TM<sub>oct</sub> plays the dominant role in the catalytic process of OER.[10c] It is because that the TM<sub>oct</sub> is preferentially exposed on the near-surface of AB2O4 with much shorter distance between TMoct-TMoct, [11] compared with other competitive TM oxides, especially perovskite oxides.<sup>[12]</sup> It means that the OER on the surface of AB2O4 will undergo the synergistic multiple sites mechanism with accelerated kinetics, rather than the single site mechanism (perovskite oxides).<sup>[10b]</sup> Thus, designing and developing the octahedral geometry are considered as a reliable strategy to promote the large-scale applications of AB2O4 for OER. However, efforts have been mainly focused on the modification of filled octahedral sites for enhancing the performance of OER, for example, producing more active sites by doping of heteroatoms and substituting cations.[13] Although exciting progress has been made, it is still difficult to meet the requirements of large-scale applications. The attempt seems to be ignored by filling the other half of the

unfilled octahedral interstices to construct the active sites. It can not only maintain the rapid kinetics of OER without destroying the basic octahedral geometry, but also greatly promote the performance by constructing abundant TMoct sites. Nevertheless, because of the structural complexity of AB2O4, such a strategy faces great challenges.

Fortunately, it provides an opportunity for the realization of this strategy with the development of defect engineering in the field of nanomaterials, recently. Generally, manufacturing defects can obviously disturb and even destroy the periodic structure of the crystal.[14] Therefore, we propose to construct appropriate defects in AB2O4 to establish the cationic migration channels consisted of defects and unoccupied octahedral interstices. Subsequently, the AB2O4 is induced to recrystallize for filling the octahedral interstices, which can significantly boost the OER by building a large number of TMoct sites. In our previous report, we created cationic vacancies to induce the reoccupation of octahedral interstices for improving the catalytic activity of OER.[15] Although this strategy was successfully implemented, the number of octahedral interstices to be refilled was limited. This may be because that the anchoring effect of unsaturated O anions hampers the migration of foreign cations. Thus, herein, we design and prepare the NiFe2O4 nanocubes (NC) with geometrical defects of TMO6 units by etching with methyl-isorhodanate (MITC, CH3NCS) and successfully fabricate the iron foam (IF) supported NiFe2O4 nanocubes with high occupancy at octahedral sites (HOoct-NFO NC/ IF) by subsequently annealing to fill Fe cations into octahedral interstices. The Raman and X-ray absorption fine structures (XAFS) characterizations prove that the octahedral interstices of HOoct-NFO NC were filled by Fe cations. The as-prepared HOoct-NFO NC/IF electrocatalyst exhibits outstanding catalytic activity for OER with overpotentials of 260 and 310 mV at current densities of 10 and 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , respectively. Meanwhile, the HOoct-NFO NC/IF presents faster kinetics with Tafel slope of only 36.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and ultra–stability of maintaining the current density of 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 50 h. Moreover, the origin of enhancements on OER activity was investigated by the density functional theory (DFT) calculations.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The synthetic process of HOoct-NFO/IF is shown in **Figure 1**a, involving the hydrothermal treatment (for the synthesis of NiFe2O4 supported on IF) (Figure S1, Supporting Information), anchoring process (for the construction of geometrical defects to build cationic channels) and subsequent annealing process (for filling cations into octahedral interstices). IF was used as the conductive and porous supporting substrate for the electrocatalysts as well as the precursor of Fe cations.[16] Nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO3)2·6H2O) was served as the precursor of Ni cations. In order to build the geometrical defects of TMO6 units for establishing cationic migration channels, MITC was utilized as the anchoring agent. As reports, based on the electrophile property of MITC, the terminal carbon in -NCS, as electron acceptor, will anchor with the O anions of the TMO6 units and the terminal sulfur in -NCS will target the TM cations.[17] Afterward, the geometrical defects of TMO6 units are constructed by removing the produced metal-organic complex

**Figure 1.** a) Scheme of synthetic process of HOoct-NFO NC/IF. b) XRD patterns of HOoct-NFO NC, GDoct-NFO NC, and NFO NC. c) EPR spectra of HOoct-NFO NC, GDoct-NFO NC, and NFO NC. d) Raman spectra of HOoct-NFO NC, GDoct-NFO NC, and NFO NC.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

6163202, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/adm/20201011 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (07/01/2026), See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser

in the ethanol due to the moderate solubility. In view of the reasonable size of molecules, MITC is able to break into the interlayers and channels of octahedral interstices and continuously anchor onto the specific ions to build cationic migration channels. [18] IF supported NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocubes with geometrical defects of TMO<sub>6</sub> unit (GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC/IF) and IF supported NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanocubes (NFO NC/IF) without regulation were also prepared as comparisons (for details see Experimental Section).

The HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, and NFO NC were separated from IF by ultrasonic treating in alcohol and characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), respectively (Figure 1b). The diffraction peaks of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, and NFO NC observed at 18.4, 30.3, 35.7, 37.3, 43.4, 53.8, and 63.0° are corresponding to the (111), (220), (311), (222), (400), (422), and (440) facets of NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (PDF#54-0964), which belong to the phase of cubic spinel structure with the space group of Fd-3m(227) and the unit cell parameter of 8.337 Å. Meanwhile, the peak at 44.6° is ascribed to the (110) facets of Fe (PDF#06-0696), owing to the supporting substrate of IF. It indicates the successful synthesis of IF supported HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, and NFO NC. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy was used to investigate the structures of defects in various NFO electrocatalysts because of its sensitivity to unpaired electron in materials (Figure 1c).[19] The EPR spectra of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC and GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC exhibit two signals at g factors of 2.386 and 2.002, implying the existence of geometrical defects of TMO<sub>6</sub> units and ionized O vacancy, respectively.[20] It represents that the geometrical defects of TMO6 units were successfully constructed in the crystals of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC and GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC by etching with MITC. In addition, the EPR signals of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC are obviously more intensified and broadened, indicating more geometrical defects of TMO6 units. However, weak signals at g factors at 2.386 and 2.002 can be observed on the EPR spectrum of NFO NC which means the existence of a little number of intrinsic defects in the crystal of NFO NC.

The Raman spectroscopy and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy were used to study the lattice dynamics of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, and NFO NC, including composition, bonding, and chemical environment (Figure 1d and Figure S2, Supporting Information). The Raman spectrum of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, as presented in Figure 1d, exhibits five typical Raman active modes of crystal structures with Fd-3m space group  $(E_g + A_{1g} + 3F_{2g})$ .[21] For the Raman spectrum of  $HO_{oct}$ NFO NC, the  $F_{2g}(1)$  modes at Raman shift of 219 cm<sup>-1</sup> is attributed to the symmetric bending and stretching of the TM-O bond in tetrahedron and the  $F_{2g}(2)$  and  $F_{2g}(3)$  modes at 400 and 542 cm<sup>-1</sup> are ascribed to the asymmetric stretching mode and asymmetric bending of the TM-O bond in octahedron.[22] The  $E_{\rm g}$  and  $A_{\rm 1g}$  modes at 286 and 667 cm<sup>-1</sup> on the Raman spectrum of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC are based on the vibrations of tetrahedral and octahedral sub-lattice, respectively.<sup>[23]</sup> Given the unmodified structures of tetrahedral geometry, the intensity ratio of  $A_{1g}$ to  $E_{\rm g}$  band  $(I_{\rm A1g}/I_{\rm Eg})$  can be used to assess the filling degree of octahedral sites. [24] Due to the splitting of  $A_{1g}$  bands on the spectrum of  $GD_{oct}$ -NFO NC and NFO NC, the intensities of  $A_{1g}(1)$ and  $A_{1g}(2)$  are summed for comparisons  $(I_{A1g} = I_{A1g(1)} + I_{A1g(2)})$ . As result, the  $I_{A1g}/I_{Eg}$  of NFO NC is 1.04. After construction of  $TMO_6$  defects, the  $I_{A1g}/I_{Eg}$  of  $GD_{oct}$ -NFO NC decreases to 0.58, implying a lower occupancy at octahedral sites. It indicates the

successful building of cationic migration channels consisted of geometrical defects. Surprisingly, the  $I_{\rm Alg}/I_{\rm Eg}$  of HO $_{\rm oct}$ -NFO NC increases to 1.95, meaning a high filling degree of octahedral interstices. It confirms that the octahedral interstices were filled by the Fe cations. Additionally, all Raman active modes of HO $_{\rm oct}$ -NFO NC are blue-shifted as compared to NFO NC, especially  $F_{\rm 2g}(3)$  mode. It indicates the shorter bond lengths of TM-O in HO $_{\rm oct}$ -NFO NC that was due to the shrinkage of lattice caused by the filling of octahedral interstices. [25] In contrary, the red-shifted Raman active modes of GD $_{\rm oct}$ -NFO NC is deemed to be owing to the longer bond lengths, which is because of the expansion of lattice by constructing geometrical defects.

Morphologies of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, and NFO NC were characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). (Figure 2 and Figures S3-S7, Supporting Information). The network-like porous IF acts as a conductive and self-supporting substrate, which is beneficial for the adsorption of adsorbate and preparation of binder free electrode (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The SEM images presented in Figure 2a, b indicate that HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC possesses nanocube-like morphology with the particle size of 50-300 nm. Meanwhile, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC and NFO NC both present nanocubes-like morphologies (Figures S4 and S5, Supporting Information). A typical TEM image of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC with sizes of 50-250 nm is shown in Figure 2c. In addition, the GDoct-NFO NC and NFO NC with sizes of 30-100 nm and 50-200 nm are observed from the corresponding TEM images (Figures S6a and S7a, Supporting Information). The high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) images of HOoct-NFO NC are shown in Figure 2d-f. Figure 2e, f come from the corresponding square areas marked in Figure 2d. The crystalline indices of 0.25 and 0.30 nm correspond to the (311) and (220) facets of NiFe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. Moreover, the (220) and (113) facets of GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC and (220) and (400) facets of NFO NC can be observed from the HR-TEM images (Figures S6b, c, and S7b, c, Supporting Information). The lattice distortion in the HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC can be observed clearly in Figure 2f, which may be ascribed to the lattice strain arising from the misalignment of cations by the filling of octahedral interstices. [26] It is believed that the OER activity can be enhanced by inducing lattice-strain owing to the tuned electronic structures of electrocatalysts. [27] Furthermore, according to the HAADF-STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images, uniform distributions of Fe, Ni, and O can be observed across HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, GD<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, and NFO NC (Figure 2g-j, Figures S6d and S7d, Supporting Information).

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectrum of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC in O 1s shifts 0.3 eV to the higher BE than comparisons, meaning the higher valence states of O anions in TM-O bonds (Figures S8–S10, Supporting Information). When the valence states of Fe and Ni remain unchanged, it maybe because the increasing coordination numbers (CN) of neighbored cations to O anions. X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (XAFS) was performed to in depth investigate the electronic structure and coordination environment of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC. [28] X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra were recorded at Fe and Ni K-edge of HO<sub>oct</sub>-NFO NC, NFO NC, and other compounds for comparison, respectively (Figure 3a and Figure S11, Supporting Information). The

**Figure 2.** a,b) SEM images of HOoct-NFO NC. c–f) TEM and HR-TEM images of HOoct-NFO NC. g–j) HAADF-STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images of HOoct-NFO NC.

XANES spectra of FeO and Fe2O3 exhibit white line intensities at 7127.8 and 7132.5 eV, corresponding to the Fe2+ and Fe3<sup>+</sup>, respectively. Meanwhile, the XANES spectrum of Fe3O4 presents white line intensity at 7131.5 eV, indicating the co-existence of Fe2<sup>+</sup> and Fe3<sup>+</sup>. [29] NFO NC possesses the lowest valence state of Fe cations in various AB2O4 with the white line intensity at 7129.8 eV. However, HOoct-NFO NC exhibits a higher valence state than that of NFO NC, which shows white line intensity at 7130.3 eV. Moreover, the valence states of Fe cations in various materials were analyzed from the absorption energy positions of the highest peak of the first derivative for XANES spectra at Fe K-edge (Figure 3b).[30] As shown in Figure 3c, the average valence state of Fe cations in HOoct-NFO NC is Fe2.65<sup>+</sup>, which is higher than that of NFO NC (Fe2.56<sup>+</sup>). Similarly, the valence states of Ni cations in HOoct-NFO NC are a little higher than that in NFO NC (Figure S11, Supporting Information). It implies that the coordination environment and occupation of Fe and Ni cations in the crystal of HOoct-NFO NC are changed.[31]

As shown in the Fourier transform (FT) Fe K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra (Figure 3d), the peaks at around 1.5 Å are ascribed to the TM-O bonds, and the peaks at about 2.5 and 3.0 Å are attributed to the bonds between nearest octahedral cations (TMoct-TMoct) and bonding of octahedral cation with the nearest tetrahedral cations (TMoct-TMtd).[10b,32] As shown in Figure S12a, Supporting Information, the EXAFS spectrum of NFO NC only exhibits two peaks at about 1.5 and 2.5 Å. It indicates that almost Ni cations are filled into the octahedral interstices of NFO NC. However, the peak around 3.0 Å appears on the EXAFS spectrum of HOoct-NFO NC, representing the redistribution of Ni cations. It implies that a part of Ni cations are filled into the tetrahedral interstices in HOoct-NFO NC, as the result of Raman spectroscopy.[33] Although the positions of various characteristic peaks on the EXAFS spectrum of HOoct-NFO NC are unchanged as compared to NFO NC, the changes of amplitudes for the characteristic peaks are observed. There are declines in the amplitudes of the characteristic peak for the TM-O in the EXAFS spectrum of HOoct-NFO NC at Fe and Ni K-edge, respectively. It is because that the formation of geometrical defects of TMO6 units will destroy the coordination environment of octahedral geometry in the crystal.[17] However, the amplitudes of the characteristic peaks for TMoct and TMtd are observed to rise at both Fe and Ni K-edge. Usually, the etching of TMO6 units should lead to a lower CNs for cations. Therefore, it means the filling of cations into the unoccupied octahedral interstices. Furthermore, the experimental EXAFS spectra of HOoct-NFO NC and NFO NC were well fitted to the cubic structure of AB2O4 (*Fd-3m*) (Figure 3d and Table S1, Supporting Information). As result shown in Table S1, Supporting Information, the first shell of EXAFS spectrum for HOoct-NFO NC can be fitted to **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

16163028, 2022, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202201011 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 3.** a) Normalized XANES spectra at the Fe K-edge of HOoct-NFO NC, NFO NC, and comparisons. b) The first derivative of XANES spectra at Fe K-edge of HOoct-NFO NC, NFO NC, and comparisons. c) Relationship between valence states and absorption energy in the first derivative of XANES spectra at Fe K-edge of HOoct-NFO NC, NFO NC, and reference materials. d) Resulting Fourier-transformed (FT) *k3* weighted *χ*(*k*)-function of Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra for HOoct-NFO NC and NFO NC. e) Experimental data and fits of the Fe K-edge EXAFS spectra for HOoct-NFO NC and NFO NC. Coordination diagram of octahedral geometric structure in f) NFO NC and g) HOoct-NFO NC. Wavelet transforms (WT) for the *k3* weighted EXAFS contour plots of h) HOoct-NFO NC and i) NFO NC.

paths of Fetd-O bond with length of 1.971 Å and CN of about 4 and Feoct-O bond with length of 2.098 Å and CN of about 5.5. However, the CNs of Fetd-O and Feoct-O bonds in NFO NC can be fitted to close to 4 and 6. It means that a large number of "octahedral sites" in HOoct-NFO NC are composed of Fe cations with five O anions (FeO5) due to the destroying of octahedral geometry induced by the construction of TMO6 defects.[34] Meanwhile, the EXAFS spectrum for NFO NC can be fitted to paths of Feoct-TMoct, Fetd-TMoct, and Fetd-TMtd with CNs of about 6, 6, and 4, respectively. It is worth noting that the paths of Feoct-TMoct and Fetd-TMoct in HOoct-NFO NC is fitted to the bond lengths of 3.007 Å with CN of 10.810 and 3.484 Å with CN of 9.102. Similarly, the increases of the CNs for Nioct-Tmoct and Nitd-TMoct have been observed (Figure S12 and Table S2, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 3f, the CNs of nearest TMoct and octahedral interstices to a Feoct site are both six in an original crystal of AB2O4. Given the decreasing CN of Fetd-TMtd (3.167) and the expansion of lattice, such a high CN means that the octahedral interstices in HOoct-NFO NC are refilled by Fe cations based on the existence of iron foam, as shown in Figure 3g. In addition, the changes in the bond length of TMoct-TMoct, TMtd-TMoct, and TMtd-TMtd in HOoct-NFO NC indicate the expansion of the lattice after filling the octahedral interstices as compared to NFO NC. Wavelet transforms (WT) of the *k3* weighted EXAFS at Fe K-edge of HOoct-NFO NC and NFO NC are shown in Figure 3h, i. Coordination feature of NFO NC is correlated with a *k* value of 6.0 Å−<sup>1</sup>

and that of HOoct-NFO NC is left-shifted to the lower *k* value. Owing to the heavy elements located in regions with higher *k* values, it indicates the foreign Fe cations dominate the filling of the octahedral interstices based on the existence of IF served as supporting substrate.[35] Besides, it confirms the transformation of the Nioct to Nitd. To investigate the thermodynamic stability, the Ab initio molecular dynamics simulation was performed on HOoct-NFO model. The model was established according to the results of EXAFS, which is with octahedral interstices fully filled by Fe cations (Figure S13a, Supporting Information). It is found that the total energy oscillates within a small range along with the unchanged structure throughout the simulation (Figure S13b, Supporting Information). It implies that the structure of HOoct-NFO is stable.

The performance of OER on HOoct-NFO NC/IF electrocatalyst was measured in order to investigate the effects of constructing a large number of TMoct sites through filling the octahedral interstices. For comparison, linear sweep voltammogram (LSV) curves of OER on GDoct-NFO NC/IF, NFO NC/ IF, Ir/C, and IF electrocatalysts were also obtained. All LSV curves were *iR*-corrected. It is noting that the optimized synthetic conditions have been adopted for preparing HOoct-NFO NC/IF (Figures S14–S16, Supporting Information). As displayed in **Figure 4**a, Ir/C and IF only show negligible activities toward OER. NFO NC/IF electrocatalyst requires overpotentials of 290 and 330 mV to achieve current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . GDoct-NFO NC/IF electrocatalyst exhibits better activity for

**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves of OER on HOoct-NFO NC/IF, GDoct-NFO NC/IF, NFO NC/IF, Ir/C, and IF electrocatalysts in 1 m KOH at 25 °C with scan rates of 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . b) Tafel plots of HOoct-NFO NC/IF, GDoct-NFO NC/IF, NFO NC/IF, Ir/C, and IF electrocatalysts. c) Comparisons of OER performances in kinetics and overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 on HOoct-NFO NC/IF, GDoct-NFO NC/IF, NFO NC/IF, and reported state-of-the-art spinel based electrocatalysts. d) Relationships between capacitive current densities (*Δj*) measured on various electrocatalysts against different scan rates in 1.0 M KOH. e) The chronoamperometric plot of OER on HOoct-NFO NC/IF electrocatalysts at 1.54 V versus RHE in 1 M KOH with 25 °C.

OER than NFO NC/IF, which can reach the current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 at overpotentials of 270 and 310 mV. It is owing to the exposure of three excess TMoct sites at the near surface as active sites for OER induced by the etching of one TMO6 units on the surface and the creation of anchoring sites by constructing the defects.[34] Surprisingly, HOoct-NFO NC/ IF electrocatalyst presents the best activity for OER, which can achieve the current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at overpotentials of 260 and 290 mV, and even exhibit a current density of 400 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at only 1.54 V versus RHE. It can significantly promote the OER performance by filling octahedral interstices to construct a large number of TMoct sites, which is better than the enhancement of manufacturing geometrical defects. Based on the rapid kinetics mechanism of OER on AB2O4, HOoct-NFO NC/IF, GDoct-NFO NC/IF, and NFO NC/IF electrocatalysts both exhibit low Tafel slopes (Figure 4b). Among them, HOoctNFO NC/IF possesses the lowest Tafel slope of 36.1 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> , indicating the acceleration of kinetics by constructing active TMoct. Consequently, as-prepared HOoct-NFO NC/IF is at the similar or even better level compared with the reported stateof-the-art NiFe2O4 and other spinel based electrocatalysts in terms of kinetics and overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for OER in recent years (Figure 4c and Table S3, Supporting Information). Based on the construction of abundant Feoct as active sites, assynthesized HOoct-NFO NC/IF exhibits largest electrochemical surface area (ECSA) and smallest reaction resistance as compared with GDoct-NFO NC/IF and NFO NC/IF (Figure 4d and Figures S17–S19, Supporting Information). Additionally, the real active species were studied by electrochemical in situ Raman measurements(Figure S20, Supporting Information). The generated FeOOH on the surface of HOoct-NFO NC are considered to be the real active species for OER. Moreover, the **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

16163028, 2022, 29, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202201011 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** a) Gibbs free energy diagram of OER on the surfaces of HOoct-NFO and NFO. b) Histogram of energy barriers that HOoct-NFO and NFO need to overcome in the rate-determination step at *U* = 1.23 V (\*OOH to \*O). c) The curves of density of state (DOS) of Fe *d*, Ni *d,* and O *p* orbitals for \*OOH on HOoct-NFO and NFO, respectively. d) The *d*-band center of Fe *d* orbitals for \*OOH on HOoct-NFO and NFO. e) The optimized structures of key intermediates during OER on HOoct-NFO.

chronoamperometric plot of OER at 1.54 V versus RHE was tested to study the catalytic and structural stability of HOoct-NFO NC/IF (Figure 4e). The OER current density of 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> on HOoct-NFO NC/IF can be maintained for about 50 h without decline. The XRD, XPS, SEM, and TEM characterizations indicate that the crystal structure, valence states, and morphologies are not changed after stability test (Figures S21–S24, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, surface reconstruction can be not observed. It presents the robust structural stability of HOoct-NFO NC/IF for OER, which is considered to come from the superior thermodynamic stability of AB2O4 family.

For clarifying the origin of the enhancement of OER performance on HOoct-NFO NC/IF, the density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed to explore the active sites and catalytic mechanism (**Figure 5**). According to the results of Raman and synchrotron radiation spectroscopies, a computational model with octahedral interstices fully filled by Fe cations is established to represent HOoct-NFO. At the same time, due to the etching of TMO6 units by MITC, vacancies of O anions widely exist in the octahedral geometry. Thus, the model of HOoct-NFO was constructed with octahedral geometry consisted of TMO5 units on the surface. Moreover, a model of NFO with typical inverse crystal of spinel oxide was built as comparison. During the OER process in alkaline medium, the key catalytic process is the adsorption and transformation of intermediates involving \*OH, \*O, and \*OOH (Figure 5a, \* denotes adsorption states). As shown in Figure 5b, HOoct-NFO exhibits lower energy barrier in rate-determining step (RDS, \*O to \*OOH) of 0.54 eV as compared to NFO (0.97 eV), indicating higher activity for OER. To provide the insights into the difference in the \*O binding strength on HOoct-NFO and NFO, the density of state (DOS) and *d*-band center of Fe (true active sites of HOoct-NFO) *d* orbitals were calculated (Figure 5c, d). The most downshifted DOS of Fe *d* orbitals below Fermi level and *d*-band center illustrate a weaker binding between the \*O intermediate and HOoct-NFO as compared with that for NFO. The optimized structures of the intermediates on the surface of HOoct-NFO and NFO are obtained (Figure 5e and Figure S25, Supporting Information), and the exposed Feoct sites in FeO5 units are determined as the active site. Consequently, the modification of HOoct-NFO induces Fe cations to fill into the octahedral interstices, which not only constructs a large number of active Feoct sites, but also creates FeO5 sites with better catalytic activity. On the other hand, it tunes the electronic structure to optimize the adsorption of intermediates for enhancing the catalytic performance.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, for constructing a large number of TMoct sites to boost the OER, IF supported NiFe2O4 nanocubes with high occupancy at octahedral sites (HOoct-NFO NC/IF) was successfully synthesized. The foreign Fe cations were filled into the octahedral interstices along the cationic channels of TMO6 geometrical defects etched by MITC. The EPR spectroscopy

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

confirms the formation of geometrical defects in HOoct-NFO NC. The variation of intensities on the Raman spectrum of HOoct-NFO NC demonstrates that the octahedral interstices were filled by Fe cations. Meanwhile, it proves the successful building of geometrical defects in GDoct-NFO NC as well. According to the HR-TEM, lattice strain was induced by filling the cations and constructing the TMO6 defects. Furthermore, XAFS measurement reveals the changes of coordination environments and bond lengths, which confirms the filling of Fe cations into the octahedral interstices. As result, the as-prepared HOoct-NFO NC/IF electrocatalyst exhibits excellent performance for OER with overpotentials of only 260 and 310 mV at current densities of 10 and 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> . The HOoct-NFO NC/IF shows faster kinetics with Tafel slope of only 36.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and superior stability of maintaining the current density of 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 50 h, as well. According to the DFT calculations, the enhancements of the catalytic performance was contributed to the construction of a large number of Feoct sites in FeO5 units that are with better activity and tuning of the electronic structures that can optimize the bindings of key intermediates during the OER process. Thus, the study provides a new insight and opportunity for designing and developing the TM oxides to realize the applications of high efficient non-precious metal electrocatalysts for OER, including spinel oxides, LDHs, and perovskite oxides.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Chemicals*: Nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, AR), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS, C12H25O4NaS, AR), methyl isothiocyanate (MITC, CH3NCS, AR), potassium hydroxide (KOH, AR) were purchased from Shanghai Macklin Biochemical Co., Ltd. Iron foams were purchased from Kunshan Jiayisheng Electronics Co., Ltd. Hydrochloric acid (HCl, AR) was purchased from Chengdu Cologne Chemical Co., Ltd. The deionized (DI) water was homemade.

*Synthesis of Iron Foam Supported NiFe*2*O*4 *Nanocubes with High Occupancy at Octahedral Sites (HO*oct*-NFO NC/IF)*: First, an IF with size of 20.0 mm × 20.0 mm × 1.5 mm was ultrasonic treated in 0.5 m HCl solutions for 30 min to remove the surface oxides, and then washed by DI water until pH value = 7. Second, Ni(NO3)2·6H2O (0.100 mmol) and SDS (0.400 mmol) were ultrasonic treated and dissolved in 60 mL DI water for 30 min, and then transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined autoclave. Third, the prepared IF was put into the mixture in the autoclave together. The resulting autoclave was put into an electronic oven and heat-treated at 150 °C for 6 h. After cooling down to room temperature, the resulting complex was washed by DI water for three times, and then transferred into 4 mM MITC in a beaker and anchor-treated at 75 °C for 20 min. After washed by ethanol and DI water alternately for three times, the resulting complex was dried in a vacuum oven at 60 °C for 8 h. Finally, the complex was annealed in N2 atmosphere at 400 °C for 2 h.

*Synthesis of IF Supported NiFe*2*O*4 *Nanocubes with Geometrical Defects of TMO*6 *Unit (GD*oct*-NFO NC/IF)*: After the hydrothermal treatment, the resulting complex was directly annealed in N2 atmosphere at 400 °C for 2 h and finally anchor-treated with MITC. Other synthetic processes were as same as that of HOoct-NFO NC/IF.

*Synthesis of IF Supported NiFe*2*O*4 *Nanocubes (NFO NC/IF)*: Anchoring treatment was not carried out after annealing treatment. Other synthetic processes were as same as that of HOoct-NFO NC/IF.

*Electrochemical Measurement*: Electrochemical measurements were carried out in a typical three-electrode system. The counter electrode was a graphite rod and the reference electrode was a reversible hydrogen electrode. The working electrodes were HOoct-NFO NC/IF, GDoct-NFO NC/IF, NFO NC/IF, and IF with sizes of 10.0 mm × 10.0 mm. All electrochemical measurements were performed on an Autolab PGSTAT204 electrochemical potentiostat. The commercial Ir/C catalyst, served as comparison, was dispersed in 2 mL mixture of 1.5 mL ethanol + 0.5 mL Nafion (0.5 wt%, DuPont, USA) mixture by ultrasonic treating to form a well-dispersed catalyst ink. The catalyst ink was dropped onto a glassy carbon electrode with a diameter of 5 mm and dried with an infrared lamp, and the loading of Ir on the electrode was 102 µg cm<sup>−</sup>2. The polarization curves were tested in 1 m KOH solution at 25 °C with a scan rate of 1 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , and all polarization curves were *iR*-corrected. Stability test was performed using chronopotentiometric measurements at 1.54 V (vs. RHE) for 50 h.

*Characterizations*: X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements were taken on a Rigaku SmartLab 9 kW X-ray diffractometer. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) characterizations were carried on a ThermoFisher Apero C scanning electron microscope. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were performed on a FEI Talos F200S 200 kV scanning/transmission electron microscope. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) characterizations were carried on a Thermo Fisher Escalab 250Xi X-ray photoelectron spectrometer. Raman spectroscopy was performed on a Renishaw plc Raman spectrometer. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) measurements were performed on a Bruker A300 electron paramagnetic resonance popper.

X-ray absorption fine structures characterizations were performed on at Fe and Ni K-edge of various composites at room temperature in the transmission mode with silicon drift fluorescence detector at beam line TLS07A1 of National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (NSRRC) operated with a Si (111) double crystal monochromator. The synchrotron was detected at 1.5 GeV and 250 mA. HOoct-NFO NC and NFO NC were separated from IF by ultrasonic treating in alcohol for over 6 h before XAFS measurement. The photon energy was analyzed with the first inflection point of Fe K-edge in Fe metal foil and Ni K-edge in Ni metal foil. All acquired data were fitted and analyzed by Athena and Artemis software.[36] As known, the position of the highest peak of the first derivative for XANES spectrum at Fe K-edge on Fe foil is located at 7112.0 eV as well as 8333 eV for Ni foil in Ni K-edge.[37] Thus, XANES spectra of HOoct-NFO NC, NFO NC, and comparisons have been calibrated.

*DFT Calculation*: Our density functional theory (DFT) simulations were performed using the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP).[38] Core-valence interactions was described by the projector augmented wave (PAW) method. The Perdew–Burke–Ernzerh (PBE) functional within the generalized gradient approximation was used to describe the exchange and correlation functional.[39] The cutoff energy of 450 eV was set in our calculations, and 3 × 3 × 1 Monkhorst-Pack k grids were applied during the optimization. The vacuum space had been set to be over 15 A to avoid the interaction between periodical images. The weak interaction was described by DFT+D3 method using empirical correction in Grimme's scheme.[40] For NiFe2O4 structure, four layers of 110 surface were used with last two layers fixed during the calculation; for Ni and Fe atoms, a Hubbard effect was considered with a *U*eff = 5.5 eV for Ni atoms, and *U*eff = 3.5 and 3.4 eV for different Fe site atoms, according to the previous work.[41] For OER process, the reaction free energy changes (Δ*G*) for each elementary steps were calculated based on the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model as follows equation shown.

$$\Delta G = \Delta E + \Delta Z P E - T \Delta S \tag{1}$$

where Δ*ZPE* is the change of zero-point energies from DFT calculation, *T* is set to be the room temperature of 298.15 K, and *T*Δ*S* is the correction of entropy for adsorbed species. For the structures used in this work, the lattice parameters and atomic configurations of the bulk model of NiFe2O4 was first relaxed and then the model with all octahedral interstices filled by Fe cations was established. After the optimization, (110) surface was then cleaved from the filled and unfilled model to investigate their catalytic performance, respectively.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21802024, 51920105004), and the Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Low Dimensional Materials and Energy Storage Devices (20195010002).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

## **Keywords**

geometrical defects, high occupancy, octahedral sites, oxygen evolution reaction, spinel oxides

> Received: January 25, 2022 Revised: April 6, 2022 Published online: April 24, 2022

- [1] a) M. Tahir, L. Pan, R. R. Zhang, Y. C. Wang, G. Q. Shen, I. Aslam, M. A. Qadeer, N. Mahmood, W. Xu, L. Wang, X. W. Zhang, J. J. Zou, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2017**, *2*, 2177; b) Y. Shi, Y. Yu, Y. Liang, Y. Du, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 3769; c) L. Tian, X. Zhai, X. Wang, J. Li, Z. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 14400.
- [2] a) V. Vij, S. Sultan, A. M. Harzandi, A. Meena, J. N. Tiwari, W. G. Lee, T. Yoon, K. S. Kim, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 7196; b) Y. Zhu, W. Zhou, Y. Zhong, Y. Bu, X. Chen, Q. Zhong, M. Liu, Z. Shao, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1602122.
- [3] a) Y. Guo, J. X. Gu, R. Zhang, S. C. Zhang, Z. Li, Y. W. Zhao, Z. D. Huang, J. Fan, Z. F. Chen, C. Y. Zhi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2101699; b) I. E. Khalil, C. Xue, W. Liu, X. Li, Y. Shen, S. Li, W. Zhang, F. Huo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2010052.
- [4] a) D. Yang, L. Zhang, X. Yan, X. Yao, *Small Methods* **2017**, *1*, 1700209; b) P. Liu, D. Gao, W. Xiao, L. Ma, K. Sun, P. Xi, D. Xue, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1706928.
- [5] a) J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196; b) Q. Guo, J. Mao, J. Huang, Z. Wang, Y. Zhang, J. Hu, J. Dong, S. Sathasivam, Y. Zhao, G. Xing, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1907029.
- [6] a) D. Voiry, M. Salehi, R. Silva, T. Fujita, M. W. Chen, T. Asefa, V. B. Shenoy, G. Eda, M. Chhowalla, *Nano Lett.* **2013**, *13*, 6222; b) L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606793.
- [7] B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. Garcia-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, F. P. Garcia de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2016**, *352*, 333.
- [8] a) Y. M. Zhu, L. Zhang, B. T. Zhao, H. J. Chen, X. Liu, R. Zhao, X. W. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. L. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*,

- 1901783; b) D. Chen, M. Qiao, Y. R. Lu, L. Hao, D. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2018**, *57*, 8691.
- [9] a) Y. Wang, C. Xie, Z. Zhang, D. Liu, R. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1703363; b) F. Zheng, W. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, W. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103318.
- [10] a) Z. Liu, Z. Xiao, G. Luo, R. Chen, C. L. Dong, X. Chen, J. Cen, H. Yang, Y. Wang, D. Su, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1904903; b) Y. Zhou, S. Sun, C. Wei, Y. Sun, P. Xi, Z. Feng, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1902509; c) C. Wei, Z. Feng, G. G. Scherer, J. Barber, Y. Shao-Horn, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606800.
- [11] X. T. Wang, T. Ouyang, L. Wang, J. H. Zhong, T. Ma, Z. Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem.* **2019**, *131*, 13425.
- [12] X. H. Rong, J. Liu, E. Y. Hu, Y. J. Liu, Y. Wang, J. P. Wu, X. Q. Yu, K. Page, Y. S. Hu, W. L. Yang, H. Li, X. Q. Yang, L. Q. Chen, X. J. Huang, *Joule* **2018**, *2*, 125.
- [13] R. Wei, X. Bu, W. Gao, R. A. B. Villaos, G. Macam, Z. Q. Huang, C. Lan, F. C. Chuang, Y. Qu, J. C. Ho, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 33012.
- [14] a) W. Li, D. Wang, Y. Zhang, L. Tao, T. Wang, Y. Zou, Y. Wang, R. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1907879; b) D. Yan, Y. Li, J. Huo, R. Chen, L. Dai, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606459.
- [15] X. Yue, X. Qin, Y. Chen, Y. Peng, C. Liang, M. Feng, X. Qiu, M. Shao, S. Huang, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2101653.
- [16] Y. Jin, H. Wang, J. Li, X. Yue, Y. Han, P. K. Shen, Y. Cui, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 3785.
- [17] Y. Q. Wang, S. Tao, H. Lin, G. P. Wang, K. N. Zhao, R. M. Cai, K. W. Tao, C. X. Zhang, M. Z. Sun, J. Hu, B. L. Huang, S. H. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *81*, 105606.
- [18] Y. Ootani, K. Sodeyama, L. Y. Han, Y. Tateyama, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 234.
- [19] X. H. Yang, F. L. Ling, J. F. Su, X. R. Zi, H. Zhang, H. J. Zhang, J. Li, M. Zhou, Y. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *264*, 118477.
- [20] Y. Z. Li, Y. Li, X. M. Xu, C. Ding, N. Chen, H. R. Ding, A. H. Lu, *Chem. Geol.* **2019**, *504*, 276.
- [21] a) M. Foerster, M. Iliev, N. Dix, X. Martí, M. Barchuk, F. Sánchez, J. Fontcuberta, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2012**, *22*, 4344; b) Y. Qi, X. Xiao, Y. Mei, L. Xiong, L. Chen, X. Lin, Z. Lin, S. Sun, B. Han, D. Yang, Y. Qin, X. Qiu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2111615.
- [22] M. Virumbrales-del Olmo, A. Delgado-Cabello, A. Andrada-Chacón, J. Sánchez-Benítez, E. Urones-Garrote, V. Blanco-Gutiérrez, M. Torralvo, R. Sáez-Puche, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2017**, *19*, 8363.
- [23] a) M. A. Laguna-Bercero, M. L. Sanjuan, R. I. Merino, *J. Phys.: Condens. Matter* **2007**, *19*, 186217; b) Z. V. Marinković Stanojević, N. Romčević, B. Stojanović, *J. Eur. Ceram. Soc.* **2007**, *27*, 903; c) S. J. Hwang, D. H. Park, J. H. Choy, G. Campet, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 12713.
- [24] W. Xu, S. Li, G. H. Ryu, P. Tang, M. Pasta, J. H. Warner, *Chem. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 8243.
- [25] X. Chen, M. Yu, Z. Yan, W. Guo, G. Fan, Y. Ni, J. Liu, W. Zhang, W. Xie, F. Cheng, *CCS Chem.* **2021**, *3*, 675.
- [26] a) N. P. Wagner, P. E. Vullum, M. K. Nord, A. M. Svensson, F. Vullum-Bruer, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 11359; b) A. Demortière, D. N. Leonard, V. Petkov, K. Chapman, S. Chattopadhyay, C. She, D. A. Cullen, T. Shibata, M. Pelton, E. V. Shevchenko, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2018**, *9*, 1900.
- [27] a) L. Sun, Z. Dai, L. Zhong, Y. Zhao, Y. Cheng, S. Chong, G. Chen, C. Yan, X. Zhang, H. Tan, L. Zhang, K. N. Dinh, S. Li, F. Ma, Q. Yan, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *297*, 120477; b) S. Maiti, K. Maiti, M. T. Curnan, K. Kim, K.-J. Noh, J. W. Han, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3717.
- [28] W. Li, M. Li, Y. Hu, J. Lu, A. Lushington, R. Li, T. Wu, T. K. Sham, X. Sun, *Small Methods* **2018**, *2*, 1700341.
- [29] M. S. Kim, J. Lee, H. S. Kim, A. Cho, K. H. Shim, T. N. Le, S. S. A. An, J. W. Han, M. I. Kim, J. Lee, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1905410.
- [30] H. B. Zeng, S. Q. Chen, Y. Q. Jin, J. W. Li, J. D. Song, Z. C. Le, G. F. Liang, H. Zhang, F. Y. Xie, J. Chen, Y. S. Jin, X. B. Chen, H. Meng, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, 1908.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

- [31] Y. Zhou, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, B. Chen, Y. Du, A. C. Fisher, F. Cheng, X. Wang, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1802912.
- [32] Z. Liu, G. Wang, X. Zhu, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, S. Zang, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2020**, *59*, 4736.
- [33] a) M. Harada, M. Kuwa, R. Sato, T. Teranishi, M. Takahashi, S. Maenosono, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 8389; b) M. Harada, F. Kotegawa, M. Kuwa, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *5*, 278.
- [34] Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 1783.
- [35] C. Negri, T. Selleri, E. Borfecchia, A. Martini, K. A. Lomachenko, T. V. W. Janssens, M. Cutini, S. Bordiga, G. Berlier, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 15884.
- [36] B. Ravel, M. Newville, *J. Synchrotron Radiat.* **2005**, *12*, 537.
- [37] J. Wong, *Reference X-ray Spectra of Metal Foils*, El Cerro Blvd, USA **1999**.
- [38] a) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169; b) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Comput. Mater. Sci.* **1996**, *6*, 15.
- [39] a) J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865; b) J. P. Perdew, M. Ernzerhof, K. Burke, *J. Chem. Phys.* **1996**, *105*, 9982.
- [40] S. Grimme, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2006**, *27*, 1787.
- [41] a) X. Shi, Y.-F. Li, S. L. Bernasek, A. Selloni, *Surf. Sci.* **2015**, *640*, 73; b) X. Shi, S. L. Bernasek, A. Selloni, *Surf. Sci.* **2018**, *677*, 278.