---
source: Ping 等 - 2017 - Directed Growth of a Bimetallic MOF Membrane and the Derived NiCo Alloy@CNi x  Co.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 30.769s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:41:45.089083Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Directed growth of bimetallic MOF memebrane and the derived NiCo alloy@C/NixCo1-xO/Ni foam composite as an efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction

**Authors:** Dan Ping, Xiao Feng, Jun Zhang, Jianming Geng, and Xinfa Dong

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemElectroChem* 10.1002/celc.201700901

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201700901

A Journal of

WILEY-VCH

### COMMUNICATION

# Directed growth of bimetallic MOF memebrane and the derived NiCo alloy @C/Ni<sub>x</sub>Co<sub>1-x</sub>O/Ni foam composite as an efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction

Dan Ping, [a] Xiao Feng, [a] Jun Zhang, [b] Jianming Geng, [a] and Xinfa Dong, \*[a]

Abstract: Hierarchically structured bimetallic NiCo-MOF/LDH/Ni foam (NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF) composites were successfully fabricated via an in-situ growth of NiCo-MOF on the NiCo LDH buffer layer-modified NF surface. After carbonization, the derived NiCo alloy@C/Ni<sub>x</sub>Co<sub>1-x</sub>O/NF hierarchical nanocomposite showed excellent electrocatalytic activity with respect to oxygen evolution reaction (OER); specifically, it exhibited a very low overpotential of 300 mV at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The outstanding OER activity of the composite may be attributed to the open structure of the nanocomposite, the formation of highly dispersed CoNi alloy, and the synergistic interaction between CoNi@C and Ni<sub>x</sub>Co<sub>1-x</sub>O. This work introduces a new strategy for constructing advanced hierarchically structured nanocomposites for diverse applications.

The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is a half-reaction that is involved in water splitting and plays an important role in metal-air batteries and electrochemical water spliting devices. [1] To enhance the energy-conversion efficiency, highly efficient catalysts with large current density and small overpotential are required for OER. To date, carbon materials [2] and transition metal Ni- and Co-based materials (e.g. Ni, Co, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, NixCo<sub>1-x</sub>O and NiCo alloys) [3] have shown promising catalytic activity for OER. However, a single component material is not sufficient for providing the required performance. Therefore, exploring new composites with enhanced electrocatalytic performance is highly essential for meeting the practical requirements.

Metal-organic frameworks (MOF) are a class of porous crystalline materials with high specific surface area (SSA) and porosity and have recently attracted widespread scientific attention. [4] After thermolysis, the derived metal oxide/carbon materials that inherit the morphology and porosity of MOF precursors are considered to be promising electrode materials for OER. [3a, 5] Meanwhile, layered double hydroxides (LDH) are a class of inorganic lamellar compounds containing cationic brucite-like layers and exchangeable interlayer anions; LDH and and their corresponding derivatives have also demonstrated the great potential as electrocatalysts for OER. [1, 6] Thus, enhanced electrochemical performance is expected from the hybridization of MOF with LDH. Despite this, it should be noted that most

reported MOF and LDH (as well as their derivatives) are often prepared in powder form, and this often suffer from severe aggregation or deterioration, poor size and morphology control,<sup>[7]</sup> thereby limiting applications of MOF/LDH hybrids.

Recently, hierarchical nanocomposites with well-defined threedimensional structures have shown enhanced properties by integrating the intrinsic properties of each building blocks. Inspired by this, a great deal of efforts has been devoted to anchoring MOF/LDH composites onto highly conductive support materials, such as γ-Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> substrate,<sup>[8]</sup> Ni foil<sup>[9]</sup> and Ni foam.<sup>[10]</sup> In fact, because of the high affinity between LDH and MOF, many studies have reported the successful fabrication of the MOF membrane on an LDH buffer layer-modified porous substrate. [8, 9, <sup>11]</sup> The LDH in the composite is not only important for controlling the size and morphology of MOF, and it is also significant for the composition of the final product. In addition, previous reports have indicated that bimetallic MOF formed by doping with a second metal ions can further enhance the electrocatalytic performance. [12] To the best of our knowledge, the nanocomposite materials concerning MOF/LDH have been most investigated. However, the fabrication of the MOF/LDH composites and especially bimetallic MOF/LDH composites, directly onto conductive matrices has rarely been reported.

In this work, we have fabricated a series of hierarchically structured bimetallic NiCo-MOF on NiCo LDH buffer layer-modified Ni foam (denoted as NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF) for the first time. In this material, Ni foam served as both a Ni source and a substrate for the in-situ synthesis of NiCo LDH, and the NiCo LDH membrane was used as both the exclusive metal source and the sacrificial template for the growth of NiCo-MOF. During the growth process, part of Ni and Co in the LDH template may dissolve out and serve as active sites for the nucleation of NiCo-MOF. The size and morphology variation of NiCo-MOF was investigated by changing the Ni:Co feeding ratios (0:3, 1:2, 2:3 and 3:2) in the LDH precursor. After carbonization, the unique NiCo alloy@C/NixCo1-xO/NF hierarchical composite was obtained and used as an efficient electrocatalyst for OER.

The fabrication route for the composite is illustrated in Scheme 1. The optical image shown in Figure S1 indicates an apparent colour change of NF during the fabrication process. First, the NiCo LDH/NF nanocomposites were prepared via a simple chemical deposition procedure by immersing the NF in a mixed watermethanol (DI+MeOH) solution containing Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, and hexadecyltrimethy ammonium bromide (CTAB). The XRD pattern (Figure S2) of the resulting LDH/NF showed distinguishable diffraction peaks at low 2θ values of 11.5°, 23°, 34.8°, and 39°, corresponding to the (003), (006), (012), and (015) crystal planes of the LDH phase. The SEM analysis (Figure 1A) showed that the obtained LDH nano sheets (about 35 nm in thickness and 1.5 μm in lateral dimension), which have a highly interconnected and hierarchical structure, were vertically grown

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

<sup>[</sup>a] D. Ping, X. Feng, J. M. Geng, prof. X. F. Dong School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering South China University of Technology Guangzhou 510640 (P. R. China) E-mail: cexfdong@scut.edu.cn

Starriss ChemTech Limited
Guangzhou 510663 (P. R. China)

on the NF surface. Consequently, the LDH/NF composite was immersed in an aqueous solution of 2-methylimidazole (2-mIm) for 24 h to obtain the NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF hierarchically structured nanocomposites. The loading weight of the NiCo-MOF/LDH film on NF was about 7.3 mg cm-2 . The new emerging XRD patterns of NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF (Figure S2) were consistent with those reported using the ZIF-67 framework. [10] Additionally, the diffraction peaks corresponding to LDH were still present but had a decreased intensity, indicating that only partial LDH layer was dissolved and converted to the NiCo-MOF phase. This phenomenon is further confirmed by the XRD patterns (Figure S3) of the bulk samples synthesized using a similar process.

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the fabrication of the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF hierarchical composite from the NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF template.

The top-view SEM images (Figure 1B) of NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF show that the formed NiCo-MOF crystals (about 1.1 μm in size) are compact and uniform and have a morphology similar to that of the ZIF-67 powder (Figure S4). The side-view SEM image (Figure 1C) shows that the NiCo-MOF film has a thickness of around 7.7 μm and is firmly anchored on the LDH buffer layer, confirming the hierarchical structure of the composite. The corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDXS) result (Figure S5) shows the uniformly distributed elements (Ni, Co, C and O), and in particular, the detected signals for both Ni and Co element in the top layer confirm that the Ni and Co ions co-existed in the MOF membrane. The corresponding TEM image (Figure 1D) of the composite further indicated the successful combination of NiCo-MOF with LDH. With an increase in the Ni:Co feeding molar ratio (0:3, 1:2, 2:3 and 3:2), the size of LDH decreased dramatically (Figure S6) because of the increased number of nucleation centers of LDH crystallites. [8] Accordingly, the size and amount of the NiCo-MOF crystallites decreased greatly but had a higher uniformity in morphology. In particular, the maximum in both compactness and uniformity of the NiCo-MOF/LDH composite membrane was obtained with a Ni:Co molar ratio of 2:3. This is a clear indication that the size and morphology of MOF can be easily controlled by varying the Ni:Co ratio in the LDH precursor. Also, it is known that the pure NF has an extremely low specific surface area (SSA) of about 0.01~0.1 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 , but after the fabrication process, the SSA was greatly increased to 4 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 for the LDH/NF composite and further increased to 15.5 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 for the NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF composite.

**Figure 1.** (A) SEM micrograph of the LDH/NF composite, (B) top view and (C) side view SEM micrographs of the NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF hierarchical composite, (D) TEM image of the NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF composite.

The prepared NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF nanocomposite was subsequently treated in N<sup>2</sup> at 600 °C for 2 h to obtain the derivative of the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite (SSA: 5.5 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ). XRD, N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption, SEM, TEM and XPS were used to characterized the structure and morphology of the composites. As shown in Figure 2A, no obvious peaks for C and NiCo-containing phase can be identified from the XRD pattern of NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF. This is probably because of the intense diffraction peaks of the NF substrate. To better know the crystal structure of the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO membrane, the bulk NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO composite was also synthesized via thermal treatment of the NiCo-MOF/LDH powder samples. The XRD pattern of the obtained NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO powder sample shows diffraction peaks around 44.4, 51.7, and 76.2° (Figure 2A), which are ascribed to the face-centered cubic NiCo alloy. [13] The average particles size of the NiCo alloy calculated from the (111) reflection is about 31.4 nm according to the Scherrer equation. This suggests that during the carbonization, the Ni and Co species in the ZIF-67 were simultaneously reduced to metallic Ni and Co nanoparticles by the surrounding carbon that resulted from the decomposition of 2-mIm. The formed metallic Ni and Co then underwent alloying to form the NiCo alloy clusters because of their small size and close proximity. [14] In the meantime, the layered structure of the LDH buffer layer collapsed and decomposed into a NixCo1-xO composite as previously reported. [15] The absence of diffraction peaks for C and NixCo1-xO indicates their poor crystallinity in the sample, as evidenced by the TEM image. N<sup>2</sup> adsorption-desorption profile and pore size distribution of the obtained NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF electrocatalyst are shown in Figure S7. It can be seen that the sample shows typical IUPAC type IV pattern with a H3-type of hysteresis loop, indicating the existence of mesopores. The corresponding pore size distribution illustrates that the sample mainly consists of both smller mesopores (2-4 nm) and macropores (20-100 nm). The reason may be attributed to its hierarchical structure that is favorable for the charge and mass transport in catalytic process.

The SEM image in Figure 2D shows that the obtained material lost the original morphology of ZIF-67 and formed spherical rigidly-joined particles on the surface of the NixCo1-xO buffer layer. The TEM image in Figure 2E further shows that the formed spherical particles had a core-shell structure with NiCo core particles tightly confined in the porous carbon matrix. The HRTEM image (Figure 2F) indicates that the formed carbon matrix is armorphous and that the observed lattice spacing of ~0.21 nm is

well in accordance with the (111) plane of the NiCo alloy. The Raman spectra (Figure S8) also confirm the carbon formation; it shows two typical vibrations of carbon around 1356 (D-band) and 1600 cm-1 (G-band). Another vibration is observed around 536 cm-1 in the spectra, and it is ascribed to the NixCo1-xO in the derivative. [16] The corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) element mapping in Figure 2G shows that the Ni and Co elements in the particles are homogeneously distributed rather than being nucleated as an isolated nanoparticles, and this further verifies the formation of the NiCo alloy phase. This is in accordance with the XRD and TEM observations. It has been reported that such alloy formation shows better electrocatalytic performance than a single metal phase with respect to OER. [17] XPS analysis was carried out to obtain detailed information on the structure and oxidation states of the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF derivatives (Figure 2B and C). The full survey of the XPS spectra shown in Figure S9 reveals the coexistence of the Ni, Co, N, C, and O components in the composite. The XPS spectra of the Ni 2p3/2 (Figure 2B) displays two peaks, one at 853 and one at 855.7 eV, and these correspond to the metallic Ni and the Ni2+ oxidation state, [18] respectively. While the XPS spectra of the Co 2p3/2 (Figure 2C) has three main peaks (at 778.2, 781.0 and 782.4 eV), and these are characteristic of the metallic Co, Co3+, and the Co2+ , [18] respectively. Compared to the pure Ni and Co bulk metals (Ni 2p3/2=852.6 eV, Co 2p3/2=778.5 eV), the binding energies of metallic Ni and Co in the derived NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite are slightly shifted due to the different environment in the composite and this confirms the formation of a NiCo alloy. [19] Moreover, the binding energies for Ni2+ , Co2+, and Co3+ shown in the composite further indicate the formation of the NixCo1-xO phase. The results also conform to the reported derivatives from the Fe/Co-MOF and NiCo LDH samples, which mainly generate the FeCo alloy@C[14] and NixCo1-xO, [15] respectively.

**Figure 2.** (A) XRD patterns of the obtained NiCo@C/NixCo1 <sup>x</sup>O/NF (a) and NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO (b) derivatives, (B) Ni 2p3/2 and (C) Co 2p3/2 XPS spectra of the derived NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF hierarchical composite, (D) SEM image, (E) TEM, (F) HRTEM images, and (G) TEM-EDX elemental mapping of the derived NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF hierarchical composite.

The OER activity of the prepared NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF electrocatalyst was investigated in 1.0 M KOH aqueous solution using polarization curves (IR-corrected) that were measured using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV). For comparison, the electrocatalytic activity of LDH/NF and bare NF were also

evaluated. As shown in Figure 3A, the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite shows the highest OER performance as evidenced by the lower onset potential and higher current density. The anodic peaks in the polarization curves from 1.35 to 1.5 V are ascribed to the oxidation of Ni2+ to Ni3+. The NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF catalyst requires a potential of only 1.53 V (i.e., η100=300 mV) to attain a current density of 100 mA cm-2 , and this is much lower than that for bare NF at 1.69 V (i.e., η100=460 mV), LDH/NF at 1.59 V (i.e., η100=360 mV) and its derivative NixCo1-xO/NF at 1.61V (i.e., η100=380 mV). This indicates the excellent OER activity of NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF electrode, and this result is better than or comparable to many previously reported NiCo-based OER catalysts, such as Co@NC/NF (η10=390 mV), [20] NiCoP/C (η10=330 mV), [5] Co-Ni-Se/C/NF (η50=300 mV), [10] CoxNi1 <sup>x</sup>@CoyNi1-yO@C (η10=570 mV), [18] NiFe LDH (η100=300 mV), [21] NiCoFeS/NF (η100=160 mV), [22] NiCoTi/Ti foil (η100=330 mV), [23] NiCo alloy (η10=399 mV)[24] and those noble metal catalysts of RuO<sup>2</sup> (η10=380 mV) and IrO<sup>2</sup> (η10=380 mV) particles. [25] A detailed comparision has been summarized in Table S1. In addition, the tafel plot (Figure 3B) derived from polarization curve is considered as an important parameter to examine the OER catalytic kinetics.[1] The relatively small tafel slope often signifies the enhanced charge transfer capability and herein facilitates the OER process. As observed, the tafel slope of 106 mV dec-1 for the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF nanocomposite is much lower than that for bare NF (179 mV dec-1 ), LDH/NF (117 mV dec-1 ) and its derivative NixCo1-xO/NF (128 mV dec-1 ), implying the favorable reaction kinetics with respect to OER for NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF. The reason may be attributed to the enhanced electrical conductivity and the improved mass transport in the hierarchically structured nanocomposite. Additionally, the durability test of OER activity of the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite catalyst (Figure S10) was also evaluated at a constant potential of 1.56 V (vs. RHE) for 24 h. As can be seen, the current density decreased sharply at the beginning of the measurements and then became stable over 24 h. Despite this, the current density is still significantly higher than many reported results. The good catalytic activity of the asprepared NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite makes it a promising material as a highly active OER catalyst.

**Figure 3.** (A) LSV curves, (B) Tafel plots and (C) plots of charging current density differences (Δj) against the scan rate at 1.45 V of the obtained samples: (a) bare NF, (b) LDH/NF, (c) NixCo1-xO/NF and (d) NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF in the O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH aqueous solution.

In order to evaluate the electrocatalysis efficiency of each electrode material, the electroactive surface area (ECSA) is estimated by using a simple CV method (Figure S11). [5, 26] As shown in Figure 3c, the NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF has a much larger linear slope (ECSA) than the LDH/NF, NixCo1-xO/NF and bare NF, further confirming the superior electrocatalytic activity of NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite.

In summary, highly efficient NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF hierarchical nanocomposites were successfully fabricated from NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF templates and used as electrocatalysts for OER. Results showed that the materials have an excellent OER activity, displaying the overpotential of only 300 mV at a current density of 100 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> . The open structure of the nanocomposites, the promotion effect of the highly dispersed NiCo alloy, and the synergistic interaction between CoNi@C and NixCo1-xO may contribute to the high activity. The electrode material proposed herein may open a new window for the efficient catalysis of OER and can be extended to the fabrication of other hierarchically structured materials for diverse applications.

### **Experimental Section**

All of the chemicals and reagents, including Ni(NO3)2·6H2O (A.R., Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd), Co(NO3)2·6H2O (A.R., Tianjin Kermel Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd.), cetyltrimethylammoniu bromide (CTAB, 99%, Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd.), 2-methylimidazole (2-mIm, A.R., Aladdin), methanol (99.5%, A.R., Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd.) and absolute ethanol (99.5%, A.R., Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd.) were used as received. Deionized water was homemade. Prior to synthesis, the NF (110 PPI, 2 mm thick, Shenzhen Hanbo Co., Ltd.) was degreased with acetone, and then ultrasonically washed with deionized water and absolute ethanol.

Preparation of NiCo LDH buffer layers on the NF substrate: the NiCo LDH nanosheets on NF were prepared via a simple solvothermal process[1]with some changes (see Supplementary information for details). Typically, 1.8 mmol Co(NO3)2·6H2O, 1.2 mmol Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, and 1 g of CTAB were dissolved in a mixture of 12 mL of distilled water and 60 mL of methanol. The resulting mixture was poured into a 100 mL Teflon-lined autoclave, and the pretreated NF was vertically placed into this. The autoclave was sealed and heated at 180 °C for 24 h. The NiCo LDH nanosheets (Ni1.2Co1.8(OH)6Br1.2) on NF (denoted as LDH/NF-23) were obtained, then thoroughly washed with deionized water and dried in an oven overnight. The Ni:Co molar ratio was 2:3. The molar ratio of Ni:Co was changed to 0:3, 1:2, and 3:2, but the total amount (nNi+nCo=3 mmol) of metal ions was kept constant. The resulting samples were denoted as NiCo LDH/NF-x (x=03, 12, 32).

Fabrication of NiCo-MOF on the LDH buffer layer-modified NF substrate: The above prepared LDH/NF-x (x=03, 12, 23, 32) composites were immersed in the 2-mIm aqueous solution (2.5 g in 10 mL) for 24 h at a temperature of 60 °C, followed by washing with water and methanol several times. The resulting NiCo-MOF film was obtained and denoted as NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF-x (x=03, 12, 23, 32).

Synthesis of derivatives of LDH/NF and NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF via carbonization: The NixCo1-xO/NF and NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite was synthesized by annealing the as-prepared LDH/NF and NiCo-MOF/LDH/NF composite at 600 °C for 2 h in a N<sup>2</sup> atmosphere at a heating rate of 5 ° min-1 . Unless specified, the value of x in the composite was fixed at 23 (i.e. Ni:Co=2:3).

The materials characterizations were carried out via X-ray diffraction (XRD), field emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM, merlin), transmission electron microscopy (TEM, JEM-2100F), Raman spectra, X-

ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and N<sup>2</sup> adsorption/desorption experiments.

The electrochemical performance of each material was evaluated using a standard three-electrode system in an O2-saturated 1 M KOH solution on a CHI760e electrochemical work station (Shanghai Chenhua). The NiCo@C/NixCo1-xO/NF composite was cut into small pieces (1.0 cm×1.0 cm) and directly used as the working electrode. The SCE and Pt plate were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. Before the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) measurements, cyclic voltammetry (CV) was conducted at a scan rate of 50 mV s-1 for 20 cycles to stabilize the signals. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was performed at 5mV s-1 to obtain the polarization curves. The measured potentials vs SCE were converted to the RHE scale and all the data presented were corrected with iR-compensation. The ECSA was evaluated from the electrochemical double layer capacitance (Cdl) by the CV method conducted in a potential window of 1.40-1.50 V vs. RHE with different scan rates (5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 mV s-1 ). By plotting the charging current density differences (Δj=jajc) at 1.45 V versus scan rate, the obtained linear slope is used to represent the ECSA.

### **Acknowledgements**

This research was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (no. 21376102) and the Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province, China (no. S2013010012199).

**Keywords:** hierarchical nanocomposite • LDH • bimetallic MOF • electrocatalyst • oxygen evolution reaction

- [1] J. Jiang, A. Zhang, L. Li, L. Ai, *J. Power Sources* 2015, *278*, 445-451.
- [2] T. Y. Ma, S. Dai, M. Jaroniec,S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* 2014, *53*, 7281-7285.
- [3] a) J. Zhou, Y. Dou, A. Zhou, R. Guo, M. Zhao, J. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* 2017, *7*, 1602643; b) X. Liu, J. Liu, Y. Li, Y. Li, X. Sun, *ChemCatChem* 2014, *6*, 2501-2506; c) J.A. Haber, D. Guevarra, S. Jung, J. Jin, J. M. Gregoire, *ChemElectroChem* 2014, *1*, 1613-1617.
- [4] a) X. L. Lv, K. Wang, B. Wang, J. Su, X. Zou, Y. Xie, J. R. Li, H. C. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2017, *139*, 211-217; b) B. Wang, X. L. Lv, D. Feng, L. H. Xie, J. Zhang, M. Li, Y. Xie, J. R. Li, H. C. Zhou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2016, *138*, 6204-6216.
- [5] P. He, X. Yu, X. W. D. Lou, *Angew. Chem. Int. Edit.* 2017, *56*, 3897-3900.
- [6] a) H. Ju, Z. Li, Y. Xu, *Mater. Res. Bull.* 2015, *64*, 171-174; b) Z. Liu, C. Yu, X. Han, J. Yang, *ChemElectroChem* 2016, *3*, 906-912.
- [7] J. Tang, Y. Yamauchi, *Nat. Chem.* 2016, *8*, 638-639.
- [8] Y. Liu, N. Wang, J. H. Pan, F. Steinbach, J. Caro, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2014, *136*, 14353-14356.
- [9] Y. Dou, J. Zhou, F. Yang, M. Zhao, Z. Nie, J. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* 2016, *4*, 12526-12534.
- [10] F. Ming, H. Liang, H. Shi, X. Xu, G. Mei, Z. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* 2016, *4*, 15148-15155.
- [11] a) Y. Sun, F. Yang, Q. Wei, N. Wang, X. Qin, S. Zhang, B. Wang, Z. Nie, S. Ji, H. Yan, J. Li, *Adv. Mater.* 2016, *28*, 2374-2381; b) Y. Liu, N. Wang, L. Diestel, F. Steinbach, J. Caro, *Chem. Commun.* 2014, *50*, 4225-4227.
- [12] S. Chen, M. Xue, Y. Li, Y. Pan, L. Zhu,S. Qiu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* 2015, *3*, 20145-20152.
- [13] Z. Xie, X. Cui, W. Xu, Y. Wang, *Electrochim. Acta* 2017, *229*, 361-370.
- [14] Y. Yang, Z. Lun, G. Xia, F. Zheng, M. He, Q. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* 2015, *8*, 3563-3571.
- [15] H. Hu, B. Guan, B. Xia, X. W. Lou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* 2015, *137*, 5590- 5595.
- [16] E. R. Ezeigwe, P. S. Khiew, C. W. Siong, M. T. T. Tan, *J. Alloy. Compd.* 2017, *693*, 1133-1142.

- [17] a) J. Yu, Y. Zhong, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *J. Power Sources* 2017, *338*, 26- 33; b) S. Ci, S. Mao, Y. Hou, S. Cui, H. Kim, R. Ren, Z. Wen, J. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem.A* 2015, *3*, 7986-7993.
- [18] D. Sun, L. Ye, F. Sun, H. Garcíaet, Z. Li, *Inorg. Chem.* 2017, *56*, 5203- 5209.
- [19] S. Zhou, M. Wen, N. Wang, Q. Wu, Q. Wu, L. Cheng, *J. Mater. Chem.* 2012, *22*, 16858-16864.
- [20] A. Aijaz, J. Masa, C. Rösler, W. Xia, P. Weide, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, M. Muhler, *ChemElectroChem* 2017, *4*, 188-193.
- [21] K. Zhang, W. Wang, L. Kuai, B.Geng, *Electrochim. Acta* 2017, *225*, 303- 309.
- [22] X. Zhao, X. Shang, Y. Quan, B. Dong, G. Q. Han, X. Li, Y. R. Liu, Q. Chen, Y. M. Chai,C. G. Liu, *Electrochim. Acta* 2017, *230*, 151-159.
- [23] P. Ganesan, A. Sivanantham, S. Shanmugam, *ACS Appl. Mater. Inter.* 2017, *9*, 12416-12426.
- [24] T. V. Vineesh, S. Mubarak, M. G. Hahm, V. Prabu, S. Alwarappan,T. N. Narayanan, *Sci. Rep-UK.* 2016, *6*, 31202.
- [25] S. Jung, C. C. L. McCrory, I. M. Ferrer, J. C. Peters , T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* 2016, *4*, 3068-3076.
- [26] Y. Jiang, X. Li, T. Wang, C. Wang, *Nanoscale* 2016, *8*,9667-9675.

### COMMUNICATION

A novel NiCo alloy@C/NixCo1-xO/NF hierarchical nanocomposite fabricated from carbonization of the bimetallic NiCo-MOF/NiCoLDH/NF template showed excellent electrocatalytic activity for OER. Specifically, it exhibited a very low overpotential of 300 mV at a current density of 100 mA cm-2

*Dan Ping, Xiao Feng, Jun Zhang, Jianming Geng, Xinfa Dong\**

*Page No. – Page No.*

Directed growth of bimetallic MOF memebrane and the derived NiCo alloy@C/NixCo1-xO/Ni foam composite as an efficient electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction