---
source: Qin 等 - 2024 - Highly Efficient NiSNi(OH)x Heterogeneous Structure Electrocatalyst with Regenerative Ox.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 18.474s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:43:40.624073Z
---

ChemSusChem

Check for updates

**VIP** Very Important Paper

www.chemsuschem.org

# Highly Efficient NiS/Ni(OH)<sub>x</sub> Heterogeneous Structure Electrocatalyst with Regenerative Oxygen Vacancies for **Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Yue Qin<sup>+,[a]</sup> Qingli Xu<sup>+,[a]</sup> Rong Zhao,<sup>[a]</sup> and Qingfa Wang<sup>\*[a, b]</sup>

Developing low-cost and highly efficient electrocatalysts toward oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is of vital significance for electrochemical water splitting. Herein, we fabricate a heterostructure NiS/Ni(OH)<sub>x</sub> electrocatalyst (Ni-S-n) with regenerative oxygen vacancies via electro-deposition on nickel foam (NF) followed by a facile NaBH<sub>4</sub> reduction. The resulting Ni-S-5 catalyst with appropriate amount of oxygen vacancies (O<sub>vs</sub>) exhibits extraordinary activity for alkaline OER with overpotential of 142 mV and 248 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. This catalyst also shows remarkable durability with 40 h. After the stability test, the excellent OER performance is well recovered by regenerating the surface oxygen vacancies (O<sub>vs</sub>) significantly with additional NaBH<sub>4</sub> reduction. The Ni-S-5 catalyst still displays good activity even after repeating it three times (180 h). The surface oxygen vacancies act as vital active sites for OER. A mechanism of O<sub>vs</sub> species transformation and regeneration based on the Ni-S-5 catalyst is proposed, which provides a new direction for exploring ultrastable and efficient OER electrocatalysts with renewable active species.

#### 1. Introduction

Hydrogen is an ideal green energy carrier to convert electrical energy into chemical energy and accomplish energy storage.[1] Electrocatalytic water splitting is universally considered one of the most prospective technologies for large-scale hydrogen production to alleviate the stress on fossil fuels. [2-3] Currently, water splitting contains two main half-reactions: a two-electron hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in the cathode and a fourelectron oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in the anode. The OER process involving multiple electrons is confronted with the difficulties of sluggish kinetic and thermodynamic limits, leading to urgent exploration the highly efficient and robust electrode catalysts.<sup>[4]</sup> Currently, noble metals or their oxides (i.e. Ir, Ru oxides) still serve as the benchmark OER catalysts in alkaline media. Whereas, the high cost and low earth abundance restrict their commercial applications.<sup>[5-6]</sup> Therefore, it is highly desirable to exploit low-cost, high-efficiency noblemetals-free based catalysts.<sup>[7]</sup> Transition-metal oxides,<sup>[8–10]</sup> phosphides,  $^{[5, 11]}$  selenides,  $^{[12-13]}$  (oxy)hydroxides  $^{[3, 14-15]}$  and chalcogenides  $^{[3,\ 16-17]}$  have been reported as promising electrocatalysts for OER in alkaline media. Despite a large number of reported non-noble metal-based catalysts that have been

explored, designing excellent activity and robust durability electrocatalysts for quasi-industrial applications remains highly challenging.

Aimed to acquire large-current-density and durable electrocatalysts, it is necessary to increase the number of active sites and intrinsic activity of each site. [18] A variety of modification strategies have been explored to promote the intrinsic activity of materials, such as element doping, phase engineering, structure cooperation, strain engineering, interface engineering, and defect engineering.<sup>[19-23]</sup> Recently, more attention has been paid to interface engineering and defect engineering, especially for oxygen vacancies (O<sub>vs</sub>). Compared with other anion vacancies (i.e. Se, P), oxygen vacancies are easily introduced into catalysts. [5, 13] Oxygen vacancies widely exist in transition metal-based materials owing to their low formation energy. [24] Previous studies have demonstrated that the OER performance of catalysts is intensely affected by an appropriate content of oxygen vacancies, which could significantly modulate the bulk and surface properties of materials.<sup>[25-27]</sup> Oxygen vacancies are representative of electron donors, which can decrease the gap between upper edge of O 2p band and Fermi level, and create some new states, thus facilitating the electron transfer. [28] Furthermore, the oxygen vacancies could lower the covalency of the metal-oxygen bond, manifesting higher electronic conductivity and faster charge transfer during the OER process. [25, 29-30] In addition, the introduction of oxygen vacancies can optimize the adsorption energy of oxygen-containing intermediates, resulting in the enhancement of the ratedetermining step.[31-32] Beneficial from the adjustment in the electronic structure of electrocatalysts and the surface absorption/desorption of reactants, the introduction of oxygen vacancy is an effective modification strategy for designing OER electrocatalysts. Although the strategy of constructing oxygen vacancy on catalysts has been widely developed,[24, 33-34] the

Correspondence: Prof. Qingfa Wang, State Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Technology of Ministry of Education, School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, P. R. China. Email: qfwang@tju.edu.cn

<sup>[</sup>a] State Key Laboratory of Green Chemical Technology of Ministry of Education, School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Tianjin University, Tianjin, P. R. China

<sup>[</sup>b] Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin, P. R. China

<sup>[+]</sup> These authors contributed equally to this work.

<sup>☐</sup> Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202400961

regeneration of oxygen vacancy in used catalysts has been rarely reported.

In this context, a novel NiS/Ni(OH)x electrocatalyst enriched in crystalline/amorphous heterointerfaces and regenerative oxygen vacancies is developed by a straightforward and facile approach. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) demonstrated the successful introduction of oxygen vacancies by forming low-valence Ni. Combining the interface and oxygen vacancies engineering, the oxygen-vacancies-enriched Ni-S-5 catalyst displays superior activity and durability for OER with an ultralow overpotential of 142 mV@10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , 248 mV@100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH. Intriguingly, the performance can be recovered by a facile NaBH4 reduction after the stability test, which may be attributed to the regeneration of partial surface Ovs species. The as-prepared Ni-S-n catalysts exhibit remarkable durability and reproducibility. In addition, a mechanism for the transformation and regeneration of Ovs species based on Ni-S-5 is proposed, which would provide new insight into regenerating oxygen vacancies and recycling catalysts.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The morphology evolution of Ni-S-n catalysts prepared by a facile electro-deposition combined with NaBH4 reduction is shown in Figure 1 and Figure S1. The pristine Ni-S-0 catalyst exhibits a porous structure and a rough surface with interlinked nanosheet on NF, enlarging the contact area between the catalyst and electrolyte. Notably, some micro-cracks appear on the deposited layer, which may expose more active sites and provide pathways for gas release.[3] The interlinked nanosheet gradually evolves into a pinnate structure under the NaBH4 etching. With the reduction time prolonged, the unstable edges are further etched, and a stable large-surface nanosheet structure is formed in Ni-S-5 catalyst. Nevertheless, the agglomerates are observed in Ni-S-7 catalyst, which is disadvantageous to exposing the active sites. These results indicate that the process of creating oxygen vacancies (NaBH4 etching) on the surface of Ni-S-n catalysts did not destroy the whole structure but changed the roughness of nanosheet.[33, 35]

X-ray diffraction (XRD) and high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) were conducted to determine the microstructure of the Ni-S-n catalysts. As shown in Figure 2a, the Ni-S-n samples present two broad diffraction peaks at 2θ�34.4° and 60.5° belonging to the (101) and (103) lattice planes of NiS nanocrystal (JCPDS No.89-

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic diagram of Ni-S-n catalyst preparation process. SEM images of b–d) Ni-S-0, and e–g) Ni-S-5 at different magnifications.

**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns of Ni-S-n with different reduction time, b) TEM and c) HRTEM images of the unreduced Ni-S-0 sample, d) TEM and e) HRTEM images of the Ni-S-5 sample.

1957),[36] and three sharp peaks at 44.5°, 51.8°, and 76.4° are attributed to the NF substrate (JCPDS No.87-0712).[37–38] This suggests that the topology structures of Ni-S-n electrocatalysts are similar before and after NaBH4 reduction. However, the intensities of the diffraction peaks gradually decrease as reduction time prolongs. The broad diffraction peaks manifest the formation of a poor crystal phase, which might be due to the increasing amount of oxygen vacancies.[3, 9, 13] Besides, the peaks of NiS are inconspicuous compared with the strong peak of NF, further confirming the poor crystallinity. Notably, no new diffraction peaks of Ni oxides or hydroxides were detected, indicating the amorphous features.[39]

TEM and HRTEM images of Ni-S-n catalysts before and after the reduction show that all the Ni-S-n catalysts consist of ultrathin nanosheets with wrinkled surfaces (Figures 2b and 2d). As shown in Figures 2c and 2e, the images of Ni-S-5 verify the presence of amorphous/crystalline interfaces (white dotted line) and the poor crystallinity with interplanar spacings of 0.257 and 0.158 nm ascribed to (101) plane and (103) plane of NiS, respectively. Similarly, the same planes of NiS were also observed in the Ni-S-0 sample. Three ambiguous diffraction rings of selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns (Figure S2) were observed in both Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 catalysts, illustrating that the Ni-S-5 catalyst is enriched in both crystalline and amorphous phases, verifying the nature of the crystalline/ amorphous heterointerfaces. These results are consistent with the XRD characterization. The heterointerfaces could provide extra active sites and thus accelerate the electrochemical reactions, and poor crystalline NiS would serve as a conductive phase to promote charge transfer between active amorphous Ni(OH)x sites and the intermediates.[40–41] Furthermore, the elemental mapping analysis in Figure S2 certifies that Ni, S, and O are homogeneously dispersed on the catalysts, and Ni together with O elements dominate the surface of Ni-S-5 and Ni-S-0, which is confirmed by the detailed data of energy dispersion X-ray spectroscopy (EDS). The Ni-S-5 catalyst shows the ratio of Ni :O at 1:4.8 (16.9% vs. 80.5%) with 2.6% trace of S, which is attributed to the coexistence of NiO and Ni(OH)2. The mass loading of S in Ni-S-5 is 0.49 mgcm <sup>2</sup> determined by ICP-MS, which confirms the existence of S. In addition, a slight variation of elements was observed between before and after reduction samples (Table S1, Figures S2 and S3), certifying that the reduction treatment would have a negligible effect on elementary composition. All these results suggest that the catalyst Ni-S-5 is mainly composed of abundant Ni(OH)x and few NiS, and the crystalline/amorphous heterointerfaces of NiS/ Ni(OH)x were formed.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed to investigate the effect of different reduction times on the valence states and electronic structure of the Ni-S-n samples. In Figure 3a, the Ni 2p spectrum of Ni-S-0 exhibits two spin-orbit doublet peaks at 854.5 and 872.0 eV ascribed to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species, and two peaks at 855.7 and 873.8 eV corresponding to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species, as well as two broad satellite peaks (860.2 and 878.6 eV).[42–44] The energy level split is about 17.5 eV, verifying the existence of Ni(OH)x. [45] Moreover, the Ni 2p3/2 peak shifts toward lower binding energies after NaBH4 treatment resulting in a slight decrease in the oxidation state of Ni. This could be attributed to the increase of oxygen vacancies content leading to the increased density of electron clouds around the cations.[46] As for the Ni-S-5 catalyst, the O 1s spectra are divided into four spin-orbit peaks as depicted in Figure 3b including: (i) lattice oxygen with the lowest binding energy (529.6 eV), (ii) lattice hydroxyl oxygen at 530.8 eV, (iii) vacant oxygen at 531.9 eV, and (iv) adsorbed oxygen (533.3 eV) at the highest binding energy.[47–49] These results also confirm the formation of Ovs species in Ni-S-5 catalyst, and the high proportions of Ov and OM-OH species suggest that the Ovs-enriched Ni(OH)x is dominant in the Ni-S-5 catalyst. The density of Ovs species was further estimated by calculating the content of vacant oxygen via Ov/(Oabsorb+Ov+OM-OH+OM-O).[40, 50–51] As shown in Table S2, the Ovs content in Ni-S-0, Ni-S-3, Ni-S-5, and Ni-S-7 are calculated as 14.0, 22.3, 25.5, and 26.3%, respectively. This proves that the content of oxygen vacancies increases signifi-

**Figure 3.** a) Ni 2p, b) O 1s and c) S 2p XPS spectra of Ni-S-n. d) Raman spectra of NF substrate, Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 samples, e) XANES spectra and f) Fourier transformed EXAFS spectra in R-space of Ni-S-0, Ni-S-5, and the standard samples (NiO, Ni foil), g) comparison FT-XAFS spectra of Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5.

cantly with the extension of the reduction time. It was reported that electron delocalization appears around the oxygen vacancies, suggesting that these delocalized electrons and oxygen vacancies are activated to facilitate OER kinetics.[52] Additionally, there is no obvious peak in the S 2p region in Figure 3c for each sample owing to the low content of S, which is in accordance with the EDS result. A weak SOx peak at the binding energy of around 168 eV is also observed because of surface oxidation.[53–54] All above indicate that the heterogeneous nanosheet structure of the Ni-S-n catalysts is composed of low-content poor crystalline NiS and abundant amorphous Ovs-enriched Ni(OH)x.

Raman spectroscopy is adopted to characterize the structure of the electrocatalysts. As shown in Figure 3d, the Ni-S-0 exhibits two obvious peaks at the Raman shift of 497 and 1047 cm <sup>1</sup> , ascribed to the first-order longitudinal optical phonon mode (LO) and the second-order longitudinal optical phonon mode (2LO) of nickel oxides.[55] Two characteristic peaks are also observed at 318 and 453 cm <sup>1</sup> , corresponding to the *E*<sup>g</sup> (T) mode of Ni-OH lattice vibration and *A*<sup>1</sup> <sup>g</sup> (T) mode of Ni-OH stretching vibration.[56] This indicates the co-existence of NiO and Ni(OH)x. Notably, the peaks of Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 present an analogous situation, but the catalyst after NaBH4 treatment has blue shifts, ascribing to the photon confinement effect caused by the increased content of oxygen vacancies on the surface.[57] The results of Raman spectroscopy certify increased oxygen vacancy content in Ni-S-5 and the co-existence of NiO and Ni(OH)x, corresponding to XPS characterization.

X-ray adsorption spectroscopy (XAS) was employed to deeply investigate the electronic structures and coordinated status of Ni. The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of Ni K-edge (Figure 3e) show that the absorption edges of Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 are situated between NiO and Ni2O3 standard samples, indicating that the Ni species mainly present in the state of Ni<sup>δ</sup><sup>+</sup> (2*<*δ*<*3).[21, 33, 58] Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 show similar Ni K-edge profiles, verifying that the reduction treatment has an extremely slight effect on the crystal structure of the compounds. According to Figure 3f, the Fourier transform (FT) extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy is used to analyze the distinct local structures including the bonding configurations and coordination status of Ni. In Rspace, the spectra of Ni-S-5 and Ni-S-0 simultaneously display two prominent peaks around 1.55 and 2.72 Å that are well assigned to the first Ni O coordination shell and the second Ni Ni shell, respectively (The k space spectra were shown in Figure S4).[58–59] In addition, the EXAFS for Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 display decreased Ni O bond and increased Ni Ni bond compared with the typical NiO (Ni2<sup>+</sup>), which also supports the occurrence of the anion defects oxygen-vacancies.[26] As shown in Figure 3g, the peak position of Ni-S-0 and Ni-S-5 notably display identical energy, nevertheless, the intensity of Ni-S-5 emerges slight decrease in Ni O compared with the pristine sample, which is in accordance with the specific data in Table S3. The slight change in intensity is evidence of the decline of central atoms coordination numbers after NaBH4 treatment.[4, 21, 40, 59] These results were confirmed in the wavelet transform images (Figure S5). Moreover, the fitting results of EXAFS spectra for the Ni K-edge illustrate that the valence of Ni-S-5 is +2.543, which is slightly lower than that in Ni-S-0 (+ 2.599). This is indicative of lower oxidation states in Ni-S-5, caused by the extended quantity of oxygen vacancies,[33] which is in line with the XPS results. All the above reveals that the NaBH4 treatment is beneficial to forming new oxygen vacancies on the surface, with little effect on the bulk structure of the catalyst. It is believed that the under-coordinated metal and oxygen vacancies regulate the electronic structure and decrease the barrier for the adsorption of H2O and OH , which is beneficial for OER.[46, 60–61] Therefore, we expect that the increase in oxygen vacancy content have a positive effect on their OER reaction performance.

To further understand the contribution of NaBH4 reduction on the OER catalytic activity of Ni-S-n catalysts, we investigate

the polarization curves of catalysts in different reduction times. As shown in Figure 4a, with scanning to an anodic potential above ~1.45 V, a rapid increase of oxygen evolution current is detected with vigorous gas bubbles released at both electrodes. Before the LSV test, a CV scanning was conducted until a stable activity was obtained (Figure S6). Ni-S-0, Ni-S-3, Ni-S-5 and Ni-S-7 catalysts derived the overpotentials of 255, 220, 142 and 222 mV to provide a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively (detailed data was listed in Table S4 and Figure 4b). When a higher current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> is reached, a remarkable overpotential of 248 mV is required by Ni-S-5, which is 28% lower than that of Ni-S-0 (343 mV). This result confirms the significant enhancement in OER activity of Ni-S via NaBH4 reduction. Moreover, the abundant oxygen vacancies in Ni-S-5 nanosheet play a crucial role in promoting OER, endowing Ni-S-5 catalyst with excellent OER catalytic activity. On account of oxygen vacancy as a typical electron contributor, it can adjust the oxidation states of adjacent transition metals and enhance the electron transfer between different components synergistically.[24] On the other hand, it can also optimize the adsorption energy of intermediates, which benefits the formation and conversion of intermediates for enhancing the OER performance.[62] Interestingly, the Ni-S-7 sample with the highest amount of oxygen vacancies does not exhibit the best catalytic activity, indicating that the quantity of oxygen vacancies is not the only decisive factor toward catalytic activity. Additionally, a catalyst Ni-5 without thiourea source was prepared, the inferior activity and slower OER kinetic was obtained compared with Ni-S-5 (Figure S7), suggesting that the addition of trace sulfur source facilitates the OER kinetics with abundant crystalline/amorphous heterointerfaces and promotes the uniform distribution of catalysts on NF. Therefore, it can be inferred that the heterogeneous interfaces in the Ni-S-5 formed by electro-deposition with the Ovs-enriched Ni(OH)x contribute to outstanding OER reactivity.

The Tafel slopes of the electrodes have been evaluated, evidenced by 46.2 and 78.0 mVdec <sup>1</sup> for Ni-S-5 and Ni-S-0, respectively, demonstrating more marvelous kinetics of water oxidation with less polarization loss in Ni-S-5 (Figure 4c). Electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) is employed to further analyze the effect of Ovs species on the electrical resistance of the electrodes. Figure 4d demonstrates the Nyquist plots for samples under different reduction times for assessing the charge-transfer process. The semicircle curves of the different Ni-S-n catalysts reveal Ni-S-5 with the smallest charge-transfer resistance (*R*ct) (1.5 Ω), indicating the highest conductivity and fastest charge transfer of an appropriate amount of oxygen vacancies. The Bode plot reflects both the dynamic evolution of catalyst and OER process, which is shown in Figure S8. At low frequencies, the peaks of phase angle are on account of surface charge conduct during the OER process.[63] The larger the phase angle is, the fewer charges participate in the Faraday process. In other words, more charges are involved in the formation of double-layer capacitance, rather than the redox reaction.[64] At the potential of 1.5 V, the smallest phase angle was achieved in Ni-S-5, suggesting that more charges on the surface of Ni-S-5 are involved in the redox reaction rather than being stored at the electrode/electrolyte interface.[65] Additionally, the electrochemically active areas (ECSA) of Ni-S-n are determined by the double-layer capacitance method (Figure S9). The ECSA of Ni-S-5 is 1.36 mF cm <sup>2</sup> compared with Ni-S-0 (0.24 mF cm <sup>2</sup> ), illustrating that the NaBH4 reduction treatment actually induces a significant increase in surface area, in accordance with the morphology observed by SEM. Remarkably, the excellent OER performance of Ni-S-5 catalyst outperforms the reported chalcogenide-based electrocatalysts recently (Table S5), such as Ni3S2/NiO/NF (240 mV @10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ),[66] Co2P-Ni3S2/NF (332 mV@100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ).[67]

To examine the stability of the Ni-S-5 catalyst, the chronopotentiometric (CP) test was evaluated by applying a

**Figure 4.** a) Polarization curves of Ni-S-n for OER in 1.0 M KOH b) Overpotentials at the current density of 10, 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , c) Tafel slope plots, d) EIS plots of these samples (insert is the equivalent circuit), e) stability test of Ni-S-5 at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with reduction repeatedly for twice after the decline of catalytic activity.

constant current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH. The result in Figure 4e demonstrates that the potential of the electrode varies slowly within the first 40 h compared with the initial potential of 1.34 V vs. RHE. Whereas, a rapid steep-rise of potential to 1.53 V between 40–50 h, followed by reaching a new potential plateau. It is speculated that the oxygen vacancies are filled by the activated oxygen intermediates during OER, inhibiting the contact between the Ovs and electrolyte. In order to verify this speculation, the Ni-S-5 catalyst after the 60 h-stability test was treated by NaBH4 reduction again and re-evaluated the stability activity. Surprisingly, the potential is restored to the original level and experienced a similar process. To verify the feasibility of fast NaBH4 treatment to recover the catalyst activity, we conducted a secondary reduction treatment. Interestingly, the activity is renewed to the original state and repeats the similar process again. Besides, a gradual decreasing duration in low-potential plateau occurs after each repeated reduction, from 40 h to about 35 h and 30 h. Such an interesting phenomenon demonstrates that the Ni-S-5 catalyst can recover excellent OER activity through a

In order to explore the active phase of Ni-S-5, the ICP-MS was conducted on electrolyte after 12 h stability test (Table S6). The molar ratio of S/Ni in the electrolyte of 1.0 M KOH was calculated as 39.67, indicating that the obvious S leaching

simple reduction treatment after undergoing a "deactivation" process, showing remarkable durability and reproducibility.

occurred in the initial stage of stability test for forming the active phase NiOOH.[68–69] The content of S in Ni-S-5 was determined by ICP-MS as 0.49 mgcm <sup>2</sup> , and ~34.6% of S was dissolved into electrolyte after 12 h stability test. However, the trace Ni ion in KOH illustrates that the Ni of catalyst only undergoes phase conversion rather than dissolution, which ensures the robust stability of catalyst. After the 180 h-stability test, the Ni-S-5 sample was characterized by SEM and TEM to elucidate the cause of the catalytic degradation. The SEM image (Figure S10a–c) reveals no signs of detachment or dissolution of the electrode during the OER process with the retention of interlinked nanosheet morphology. However, some deeper and larger cracks are observed in the layer, which is attributed to the generation and accumulation of abundant O2 bubbles. In comparison with the pristine sample, the NiS lattice plane is still maintained, and the new lattice fringes belonging to NiOOH (101) and (104) planes (PDF#06-0075) can be observed in

To explore the mechanism of regenerative Ovs sites during the stability test, four states of Ni-S-5 catalyst at 0, 42, 50 and 60 h in the first stability cycle were monitored by the XPS and EPR measurements. The obtained samples were denoted as initial, steep-rise, plateau and regeneration, respectively. As shown in Figure 5a–b, the Ni 2p3/2 of the steep-rise sample

HRTEM (Figure S10e), indicating that the catalyst is oxidized to NiOOH species, and the crystalline/amorphous heterointerfaces

of NiS/NiOOH is retained.

**Figure 5.** a) The Ni 2p XPS spectra, b) binding energy of Ni 2p3/2 of samples, c) O 1s XPS spectra, and d) the curves of O species of samples.

shifts positively about 0.8 eV compared with the initial sample, which suggests the increased valence state of Ni.[70–71] This is in line with the oxidation of Ov-Ni(OH)x into NiOOH. After the NaBH4 retreatment, the Ni 2p3/2 peak recovers to the initial state (detailed data is listed in Table S7). Furthermore, the ratio of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Ni3<sup>+</sup> decreases accompanying the time prolongs, in accordance with the increasing valence state of Ni. The value increases on the regeneration sample, indicating the partial regeneration of Ovs sites. As depicted in Figure 5c–d, the peak of OM-O shifts negatively after the stability test, which may be caused by the reduction of surface Ovs. [72] The content of Ovs sites declines continuously, reaching the lowest content on the plateau sample. However, the content of Ovs sites recovers to the initial state after the NaBH4 retreatment, which indicates that the surface Ovs sites are regenerative and the deactivated Ovs sites can be easily renewed on the regeneration sample. The slight descending of Ovs sites and the ascending of lattice hydroxides demonstrate that very few parts of Ovs sites are transferred into OM–OH, which further verifies the formation of NiOOH. The decrease of oxygen vacancies may be the dominant factor of catalyst degradation, further demonstrating that the Ovs-enriched NiOOH is the crucial active site during OER.

These variation of Ovs sites was further verified by EPR. As shown in Figure 6a, all the catalysts exhibit strong EPR signals at g=2.003 corresponding to the oxygen vacancy, demonstrating the presence of oxygen vacancy in these catalysts.[33, 73–74] The stronger intensity represents the higher concentration of Ovs sites. It is observed that the intensity of the initial sample is higher than that of steep-rise and plateau samples, indicating the loss of oxygen vacancies during the stability test. However, the regeneration sample displays the highest intensity among the samples, verifying the recovery of oxygen vacancies after NaBH4 reduction. These results obviously demonstrate that the content of Ovs sites decreases during the stability test, and the deactivated Ovs sites can be renewed on the regeneration sample, which is well consistent with the XPS results. Therefore, the gradual transformation of Ovs-Ni(OH)x/NiOOH into Ovs-NiOOH occurs in state I resulting in the slowdown of activity, and the NiOOH displays as the active phase in state III (Figure 6b). The steep rise in state II is attributed to the partially filled or covered of the Ovs sites by oxygen species (i. e. OH\*, OOH\*, O\* and H2O), resulting in the complete phase transformation between the Ovs-NiOOH and NiOOH. To further explore the real factor of robust stability, the Ni-S-0 was conducted in chronopotentiometry test with CV-activation and direct operation (Figure S11), respectively. Only a potential plateau was observed in Ni-S-0 with CV- activation sample, whereas, a rapid potential steep-rise at 0.5 h was detected in Ni-S-0 sample. These results highlight that the oxygen vacancies generated by NaBH4 reduction are responsible for maintaining Ni(OH)x species accompanied with a lower potential, and the CV activation treatment can transform the Ni(OH)x into NiOOH.

**Figure 6.** a) EPR spectra of samples during the stability test, b) CV curves of initial and plateau samples (I, II, III represent the state at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), c) the first and second durations of stability test.

Therefore, the oxygen vacancies enriched Ni-S-5 maintain durability at lower potential can be attributed to the continuous transformation of Ni(OH)x and NiOOH owing to the abundant oxygen vacancies.

The catalytic activity of the samples in different stages was further evaluated to validate the variation of surface structure. An oxidation peak is observed between 1.3 and 1.45 V vs. RHE correlating to the phase transformation between Ni(OH)2 and NiOOH.[33] Interestingly, the potential of the first stage (Figure 6c) is observed at 1.33 V vs. RHE corresponding to the potential on the oxidation peak (Figure 6b-I), suggesting that the Ni(II) species transfer into Ni(III) species continuously. When the potential steps to the higher plateau, the steep-rise potential (1.38 V vs. RHE) is associated with the potential value of the reverse LSV curve (Figure 6b-II). The value of the new higher potential plateau (1.53 V vs. RHE) can be matched with the potential of the reverse LSV curve in the plateau sample (Figure 6b-III). Taking account of the 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> on the oxidation peak, the Ni(OH)2 phase converts into NiOOH continuously. On the contrary, the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in the reverse LSV curve represents the phase NiOOH, some of which is reversibly reduced to Ni(OH)2, and the others were accumulated as an isolated phase to weaken durability.[75] These are consistent with the reduced durations after each reduction treatment. During the stability test, stage I and stage III are matched with the state of I and III on the CV test, respectively, corresponding to the Ovs-Ni(OH)x/NiOOH and NiOOH phases. Stage II plays as a transition state, the complete filling of Ovs and thorough phase transformation occur simultaneously. To eliminate the effect of substrate NF, a substitutive substrate carbon fiber paper (CFP) was used to synthesize Ni-S-5/CFP, a similar phenomenon was observed in the stability test and CV curves (Figure S12), indicating that the characteristic of regenerative Ovs sites originates from the Ni-S-5 catalyst and the substrate determines the anchor strength with catalyst.

According to analyze the changes of catalysts on four pivotal states by XPS and EPR measurements, we propose a hypothesis of oxygen vacancy regeneration mechanism. The surface oxygen vacancies are partially blocked or filled by oxygen species, and the oxygen vacancies of bulk still remain due to their nature of stabilization,[24] which is consistent with the O 1s spectra and EPR result. It is proved that the Ovs sites of the subsurface are preserved after OER. This further corroborates our interpretation that the Ovs sites on the surface have been partially filled. A similar explanation was also reported in NRR, in which DFT calculation and electrochemical quartzcrystal microbalance results verified the surface oxygen vacancies filled with O species in the electrolyte after the stability test and a lot of bulk Ovs retained after 3 days test in C@ZrO2. [76] In addition, it is found that the surface of the catalyst after OER is composed of amorphous phase NiOOH and bits of NiS. We assume that the catalyst converts into (oxy)hydroxides during the OER process following the path: Ni(OH)x+xOH !NiOOH+ H2O+xe , referring to the oxidation peak in LSV curve. And NiOOH has been considered the active species of OER.[77] During the stability test, the superior potential at the initial stage is attributed to the presence of the highly active Ovs-Ni(OH)x/ NiOOH phase. Then, the surface Ovs sites are gradually filled by oxygen species and the phase transformation of Ni(OH)x! NiOOH, corresponds to a slow rise in potential. When the surface Ovs sites are completely filled by oxygen species, the Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> is formed and accumulated after prolonged oxidation of NiOOH, with a steep rise of the potential to a new platform, which is similar to the galvanostatic-aging process of nickel electrode in other reports.[78–79] Notwithstanding a slight accumulation of Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> on the surface, it can be partially recovered to NiOOH, thus, provisionally remaining stable in the stability test curve (Figure 7). The transient intermediate Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> could not be detected by XPS, which has been reported by literature.[78–79]

To further verify the Ovs-NiS/Ni(OH)x completely converted to NiS/NiOOH, the catalyst activity on the second platform was conducted by LSV, obtaining 273 mV@10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 370 mV@50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . These are consistence with the reported catalysts of NiOOH/NF at 266 mV@10 mAcm 2[80] and NiSe@- NiOOH at 332 mV@50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [81] When the NaBH4 treatment was carried out again, the overlying Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> and NiOOH were

**Figure 7.** Reaction pathway of the NiOOH and intermediate Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>.

reduced to Ni(OH)x, and the catalyst surface was etched leading to the oxygen vacancies recovery. Thus, the activity was recovered to the initial state. This fully demonstrates that the facile NaBH4 reduction can achieve the regeneration of oxygen vacancies in Ni-S-5.

## **3. Conclusions**

In summary, a high-performance NiS/Ni(OH)x electrocatalyst enriched with renewable oxygen vacancies surface was fabricated by a simple electro-deposition combined with NaBH4 reduction. Ovs-enriched Ni-S-5 catalyst is composed of lowcontent poor crystalline NiS and plentiful amorphous Ni(OH)x, possessing abundant defects with low-coordination metals. The appropriate amount of oxygen vacancies significantly enhances the catalytic OER performance and decreases the charge transfer resistance, offering an overpotential of 142 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and only 248 mV to reach a high current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . NaBH4 reduction treatment is a fast and facile method to generate Ovs to Ni-S catalyst and recover the Ovs sites. A possible pathway of Ovs transformation and variation during the stability test is proposed. The surface of Ni-S-5 gradually changes from Ovs-Ni(OH)x/NiOOH to Ovs-NiOOH at the beginning, which performs as the most excellent species in the first stage. Then, the potential steep rise is related to the large quantities accumulation of inactive Ni<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> and the complete coverage of Ovs, leading to a new phase of NiOOH in the inferior stage. After a long-term stability test, the Ni-S-5 catalyst could recover the OER catalytic activity by repeating the simple reduction treatment, reflecting its superb durability and reproducibility. The Ovs-Ni(OH)x and hybrid NiS/Ni(OH)x enhance the OER catalytic activity of Ni-S-5, and the Ovs-NiOOH are quite critical active sites for OER. This work provides new insights into recycling in the used catalysts by regenerating oxygen vacancies.

#### **Experimental Section**

Chemicals: Ni foams (NF, 0.5 mm) were purchased from Suzhou Jiashide Foam Metal Co., Ltd. Nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni- (NO3)2 ·6H2O, 99%, Sigma-Aldrich), thiourea (CH4N2S, 99%, Aladdin), sodium borohydride (NaBH4, 98%, Aladdin), potassium hydroxide (KOH, 99.99%, Aladdin), hydrochloric acid (HCl, 37 wt%, Damao Chem), acetone (C3H6O, Damao Chem) and ethanol (C2H5OH, Yuanli Chem) were used as received. The ultrapure water with a resistivity of 18.2 MΩcm was prepared by a Milli-Q.

Synthesis of Ni-S Catalysts: The Ni-S-n catalyst was prepared through a facile two-step method. A piece of NF (1×2 cm) was soaked and sonicated in 6 M HCl solution, then in acetone, ethanol, and ultrapure water for each 10 min. The electro-deposition was conducted in the solution containing 0.1 M Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O and 0.1 M CH4N2S by cyclic voltammetry (CV) with an Autolab PGSTAT302N workstation. A platinum sheet, Ag/AgCl (immersed in saturated KCl) electrode, and cleaned NF were used as the auxiliary, reference, and working electrode, respectively. The electro-deposition was carried out by CV in the range of 0.1 to 1.3 V vs. Ag/ AgCl with a scan rate of 10 mVs <sup>1</sup> for 10 cycles. The as-deposited samples were rinsed with deionized water three times and then dried in air (denoted as Ni-S-0).

Synthesis of Ni-S-n Catalysts: The as-prepared Ni-S-0 electrode was immersed in 0.2 M NaBH4 ethanol solution for given minutes (3, 5 or 7 min) to create the oxygen vacancies on the surface. During the reduction treatment, massive gas bubbles were generated indicating the partial reduction of catalysts surface. Then the reduced samples were rinsed with ultrapure water and dried in air. The obtained samples were denoted as Ni-S-3, Ni-S-5 and Ni-S-7, respectively.

Material Characterizations: The field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) images were acquired from a HITACHI S-4800 FE-SEM at an accelerating voltage of 30 kV. The transmission electron microscopic (TEM) images and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) spectra were carried out on the JEOL JEM-2100F. SEM and TEM were used to analyze the morphology and microstructure of the as-prepared catalysts. The phase and chemical state were determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) on an American Thermo Scientific ESCALAB 250Xi with Al Kα radiation (*hν*=1486.6 eV) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XRD) on a Rigaku D/MAX-2500 X-ray diffractometer with Cu K*α* radiation. The RENISHAW laser Raman spectrometer was used to characterize the molecular structures of the catalyst in the range of 100–1400 cm <sup>1</sup> , where a neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet laser with a wavelength of 532 nm. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra were recorded on electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometer A300. X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) is conducted to detect the valence state, local geometric structures, coordination structure and defects of the absorbed atoms of the electrocatalysts. The measurement was performed using the 12-BM beamline of the Advanced Photon Source light source, with Ni foil and NiO as the reference samples. The dissolved S and Ni species in the electrolyte and the composition of catalysts were measured by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer (ICP-MS) on the Agilent 7800 Series ICP-MS spectrometer.

Electrochemical measurements: All electrochemical performances of the as-prepared catalysts have been measured by a typical threeelectrode system with an Autolab PGSTAT302N workstation. The asobtained catalysts were used as the working electrode with geometric area of 1×1 cm infiltrated into the electrolyte (1.0 M KOH). A Hg/HgO electrode and a graphite rod served as the reference electrode and the counter electrode, respectively. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) test (0.1–1.05 V vs. Hg/HgO) was conducted. The potentials were converted into reversible hydrogen electrodes (RHE) based on the following equation: *E*(RHE)=*E*(Hg/HgO)+ 0.098+0.059×pH. LSV measurement was carried out at a scan rate of 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> with 95% *iR* compensation. Before the LSV test and chronopotentiometry, a CV scanning was conducted until a stable activity was obtained. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) curves were recorded in a frequency range from 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz at a potential of 0.6 V vs. Hg/HgO. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of the catalysts was calculated through double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) by CV scans in non-Faradaic region with the scan rates from 10 to 50 mVs 1 . Long-term stability tests were evaluated by chronopotentiometry at a constant current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> .

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### *Acknowledgements*

We acknowledge the funding support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 22279088).

### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** oxygen evolution reaction **·** regenerative oxygen vacancies **·** NiS/Ni(OH)x nanosheet **·** heterointerfaces

- [1] H. Dotan, A. Landman, S. W. Sheehan, K. D. Malviya, G. E. Shter, D. A. Grave, Z. Arzi, N. Yehudai, M. Halabi, N. Gal, N. Hadari, C. Cohen, A. Rothschild, G. S. Grader, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4* (9), 786–795.
- [2] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355* (6321).
- [3] Q. Che, Q. Li, Y. Tan, X. Chen, X. Xu, Y. Chen, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.01.082) B* **2019**, *246*, [337–348](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.01.082).
- [4] Z. Gong, R. Liu, H. Gong, G. Ye, J. Liu, J. Dong, J. Liao, M. Yan, J. Liu, K. Huang, L. Xing, J. Liang, Y. He, H. Fei, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11* (19), 12284– 12292.
- [5] F. A. Frame, T. K. Townsend, R. L. Chamousis, E. M. Sabio, T. Dittrich, N. D. Browning, F. E. Osterloh, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133* (19), 7264–7.
- [6] J. Zhou, T. Wang, C. Cheng, F. Pan, Y. Zhu, H. Ma, J. Niu, *Nanoscale* **2022**, *14* (9), 3579–3588.
- [7] Y. Li, L. Zhou, S. Guo, *EnergyChem* **2021**, *3* (2), 100053.
- [8] H. Fang, T. Huang, D. Liang, M. Qiu, Y. Sun, S. Yao, J. Yu, M. M. Dinesh, Z. Guo, Y. Xia, S. Mao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7* (13), 7328–7332.
- [9] A. Karmakar, K. Karthick, S. S. Sankar, S. Kumaravel, M. Ragunath, S. Kundu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9* (19), 11691–11704.
- [10] G.-Y. He, Y.-T. Wang, X.-M. Chen, Y. Zhou, C. Meng, F.-T. Li, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.140074) Acta* **2022**, *411*, [140074.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.140074)
- [11] Q. Yue, J. Sun, S. Chen, Y. Zhou, H. Li, Y. Chen, R. Zhang, G. Wei, Y. Kang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12* (16), 18570–18577.
- [12] L. Zhang, C. Lu, F. Ye, Z. Wu, Y. Wang, L. Jiang, L. Zhang, C. Cheng, Z. Sun, L. Hu, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *284*, [119758](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119758).
- [13] A. El Jaouhari, A. Slassi, B. Zhang, A. Pershin, W. Liu, D. Cornil, X. Liu, J. Zhu, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2021.230596)* **2021**, *514*, 230596.
- [14] C. Ye, M. Q. Wang, S. J. Bao, C. Ye, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11* (34), 30887–30893.
- [15] Y. Wei, L. Yi, R. Wang, J. Li, D. Li, T. Li, W. Sun, W. Hu, *Small* **2023**, *19* (37), e2301267.
- [16] L. L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G. D. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen, X. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137* (44), 14023–6.
- [17] J. Lin, P. Wang, H. Wang, C. Li, X. Si, J. Qi, J. Cao, Z. Zhong, W. Fei, J. Feng, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6* (14), 1900246.
- [18] T. Guo, L. Li, Z. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12* (24), 2200827.
- [19] J. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31* (31), e1808167.
- [20] L. Peng, N. Yang, Y. Yang, Q. Wang, X. Xie, D. Sun-Waterhouse, L. Shang, T. Zhang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2021**, *60* (46), 24612–24619.
- [21] S. Peng, F. Gong, L. Li, D. Yu, D. Ji, T. Zhang, Z. Hu, Z. Zhang, S. Chou, Y. Du, S. Ramakrishna, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140* (42), 13644–13653.
- [22] Y. Yan, P. Wang, J. Lin, J. Cao, J. Qi, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *58*, [446–462.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.10.010)
- [23] F. Li, H. Ai, D. Liu, K. H. Lo, H. Pan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9* (33), 17749– 17759.
- [24] K. Zhu, F. Shi, X. Zhu, W. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *73*, [104761.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.104761)

- [25] Y. Zhu, X. Liu, S. Jin, H. Chen, W. Lee, M. Liu, Y. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7* (11), 5875–5897.
- [26] Y. Zhao, C. Chang, F. Teng, Y. Zhao, G. Chen, R. Shi, G. I. N. Waterhouse, W. Huang, T. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7* (18), 1700005.
- [27] G. L. Li, X. Y. Qiao, Y. Y. Miao, T. Y. Wang, F. Deng, *Small* **2023**, *19* (28), e2207196.
- [28] T. Ling, D. Y. Yan, Y. Jiao, H. Wang, Y. Zheng, X. Zheng, J. Mao, X. W. Du, Z. Hu, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12876.
- [29] X. Liu, L. Zhang, Y. Zheng, Z. Guo, Y. Zhu, H. Chen, F. Li, P. Liu, B. Yu, X. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. Liu, *Adv. Sci.* **2019**, *6* (6), 1801898.
- [30] N. T. Suen, S. F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y. J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46* (2), 337–365.
- [31] W. T. Hong, M. Risch, K. A. Stoerzinger, A. Grimaud, J. Suntivich, Y. Shao-Horn, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8* (5), 1404–1427.
- [32] K. J. M. Jin Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Yang Shao-Horn, *Science* **2011**, *334* (9), 1384–1385.
- [33] M. Asnavandi, Y. Yin, Y. Li, C. Sun, C. Zhao, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3* (7), 1515–1520.
- [34] K. Ge, Y. Zhao, Y. Hu, Z. Wang, J. Wang, M. Yang, H. Cui, Y. Yang, L. Zhu, B. Shen, *Small* **2024**.
- [35] G. Yuan, J. Bai, L. Zhang, X. Chen, L. Ren, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119693) B* **2021**, *284*, [119693.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119693)
- [36] Q. Xu, W. Gao, M. Wang, G. Yuan, X. Ren, R. Zhao, S. Zhao, Q. Wang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2020**, *45* (4), 2546–2556.
- [37] X. Yan, W.-D. Zhang, Q.-T. Hu, J. Liu, T. Li, Y. Liu, Z.-G. Gu, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2019**, *44* (51), 27664–27670.
- [38] W. Zhao, C. Zhang, Y. Li, L. Yu, X. Ma, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *468*, [143596.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.143596)
- [39] X. Lu, C. Zhao, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6616.
- [40] H. Xue, A. Meng, T. Yang, Z. Li, C. Chen, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.04.052) Chem.* **2022**, *71*, 639– [651.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.04.052)
- [41] H. Han, H. Choi, S. Mhin, Y.-R. Hong, K. M. Kim, J. Kwon, G. Ali, K. Y. Chung, M. Je, H. N. Umh, D.-H. Lim, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, U. Paik, T. Song, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12* (8), 2443–2454.
- [42] H. Krishna Sadhanala, A. Gupta, A. Gedanken, *J. [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2022.116931) Chem.* **2022**, *926*, [116931](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2022.116931).
- [43] X. Teng, J. Wang, L. Ji, Y. Lv, Z. Chen, *Nanoscale* **2018**, *10* (19), 9276– 9285.
- [44] S.-Y. Lee, S.-J. Kim, W. J. Lee, Y.-K. Lee, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2021**, *4* (10), 10267–10274.
- [45] C. Hu, L. Zhang, Z. J. Zhao, A. Li, X. Chang, J. Gong, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30* (12), e1705538.
- [46] L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29* (17).
- [47] C.-F. Li, J.-W. Zhao, L.-J. Xie, J.-Q. Wu, G.-R. Li, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.119987) B* **2021**, *291*, [119987.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.119987)
- [48] S. Li, H. Wang, Z. Ma, Q. Xiao, Q. Gao, Y. Jiang, W. Shen, R. He, M. Li, *ChemSusChem* **2021**, *14* (24), 5534–5540.
- [49] S. Liu, R.-T. Gao, X. Liu, X. Zhang, L. Wu, L. Wang, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.11.008) Chem.* **2023**, *77*, [217–226](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.11.008).
- [50] H. Tian, L. Zeng, Y. Huang, Z. Ma, G. Meng, L. Peng, C. Chen, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2020**, *12* (1), 161.
- [51] F. Jiang, S. Wang, B. Liu, J. Liu, L. Wang, Y. Xiao, Y. Xu, X. Liu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10* (19), 11493–11509.
- [52] H. Yuan, S. Wang, Z. Ma, M. Kundu, B. Tang, J. Li, X. Wang, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.126474) Eng. J.* **2021**, *404*, [126474.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2020.126474)
- [53] X. Shang, W.-H. Hu, G.-Q. Han, Z.-Z. Liu, B. Dong, Y.-R. Liu, X. Li, Y.-M. Chai, C.-G. Liu, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2016**, *41* (30), 13032–13038.
- [54] T. Li, T. Lu, Y. Li, J. Yin, Y. Tang, M. Zhang, H. Pang, L. Xu, J. Yang, Y. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *428*, [131094](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.131094).
- [55] F. Ascencio, A. Bobadilla, R. Escudero, *Appl. Phys. A* **2019**, *125* (4).
- [56] R. Briones-Martínez, N. A. Garcia-Gomez, S. Sepúlveda-Guzmán, S. M. de la Parra-Arciniega, E. M. Sánchez, *J. Nanopart. Res.* **2020**, *22* (12).
- [57] Y. Su, H. Liu, C. Li, J. Liu, Y. Song, F. Wang, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2019.05.331)* **2019**, *799*, [160–168](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2019.05.331).
- [58] Y. J. Wu, J. Yang, T. X. Tu, W. Q. Li, P. F. Zhang, Y. Zhou, J. F. Li, J. T. Li, S. G. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2021**, *60* (51), 26829–26836.
- [59] Q. Xu, H. Jiang, X. Duan, Z. Jiang, Y. Hu, S. W. Boettcher, W. Zhang, S. Guo, C. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21* (1), 492–499.
- [60] J. Bao, X. Zhang, B. Fan, J. Zhang, M. Zhou, W. Yang, X. Hu, H. Wang, B. Pan, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2015**, *54* (25), 7399–404.
- [61] G. Huang, Z. Xiao, R. Chen, S. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6* (12), 15954–15969.
- [62] R. Zhang, L. Wang, Y.-H. Ma, L. Pan, R. Gao, K. Li, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7* (16), 10010–10018.

- [63] P. Zhai, C. Wang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhang, J. Gao, L. Sun, J. Hou, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14* (1).
- [64] J. Wu, X. Wang, W. Zheng, Y. Sun, Y. Xie, K. Ma, Z. Zhang, Q. Liao, Z. Tian, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144* (41), 19163–19172.
- [65] H. Li, Y. Yang, J. Zhang, Q. Wen, J. Fang, Y. Liu, T. Zhai, *ACS Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2023**, *6* (17), 8949–8956.
- [66] F. Luo, W. Liu, Y. Liu, P. Yu, X. Jiang, S. Chen, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.146140) Eng. J.* **2023**, *475*, [146140.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.146140)
- [67] H. Li, X. Gao, G. Li, *Small* **2023**, e2304081.
- [68] X. Zheng, X. Han, Y. Zhang, J. Wang, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Nanoscale* **2019**, *11* (12), 5646–5654.
- [69] S. Ghosh, B. Dasgupta, S. Kalra, M. L. P. Ashton, R. Yang, C. J. Kueppers, S. Gok, E. G. Alonso, J. Schmidt, K. Laun, I. Zebger, C. Walter, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *Small* **2023**, *19* (16).
- [70] S. Xu, P. Zhang, R. Zhao, J. Wook Bae, H. Li, J. Yong Lee, P. J. Yoo, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148787) Eng. J.* **2024**, *482*, [148787](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.148787).
- [71] X. Li, M. Wang, J. Fu, F. Lu, Z. Li, G. Wang, *Small* **2023**.
- [72] K. Wang, Y. Wang, B. Yang, Z. Li, X. Qin, Q. Zhang, L. Lei, M. Qiu, G. Wu, Y. Hou, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15* (6), 2356–2365.
- [73] Q. Yao, B. Huang, Y. Xu, L. Li, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.105909)* **2021**, *84*, [105909.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.105909)

- [74] H. Liao, G. Ni, P. Tan, Y. Liu, K. Chen, G. Wang, M. Liu, J. Pan, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121713) B* **2022**, *317*, [121713.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121713)
- [75] S.-Y. Lee, I.-S. Kim, H.-S. Cho, C.-H. Kim, Y.-K. Lee, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119729) B* **2021**, *284*, [119729](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119729).
- [76] S. Luo, X. Li, M. Wang, X. Zhang, W. Gao, S. Su, G. Liu, M. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8* (11), 5647–5654.
- [77] W. Li, D. Xiong, X. Gao, L. Liu, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, *55* (60), 8744–8763.
- [78] S. R. Mellsop, A. Gardiner, B. Johannessen, A. T. Marshall, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.04.020) Acta* **2015**, *168*, [356–364](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.04.020).
- [79] D. M. Sayed, G. A. El-Nagar, S. Y. Sayed, B. E. El-Anadouli, M. S. El-Deab, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.04.175) Acta* **2018**, *276*, 176–183.
- [80] Q. Zhang, C. Zhang, J. Liang, P. Yin, Y. Tian, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5* (5), 3808–3818.
- [81] X. Li, G. Q. Han, Y. R. Liu, B. Dong, W. H. Hu, X. Shang, Y. M. Chai, C. G. Liu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8* (31), 20057–66.

Manuscript received: May 5, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: June 20, 2024 Version of record online: August 8, 2024