---
source: Ran 等 - 2024 - Improving the Oxygen Evolution Reaction Kinetics in Zn‐Air Battery by Iodide Oxidation Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 38.817s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:46:09.954668Z
---

# **Improving the Oxygen Evolution Reaction Kinetics in Zn-Air Battery by Iodide Oxidation Reaction**

*Jiaqi Ran, Peng Chen, Xiangning Quan, Mingsu Si,\* and Daqiang Gao\**

**Zinc-air batteries (ZABs) have garnered considerable attention as a highly promising contender in the field of energy storage and conversion. Nevertheless, their performance is considerably impeded by the proliferation of dendrites on the Zinc anode and the slow kinetics of the redox reaction on the air cathode. Herein, taking Ag30%@LaCoO3 (Ag30%@LCO) heterojunction catalyst as the cathode, it is demonstrated that adding KI additives to the alkaline electrolyte can not only enhance the oxygen electrocatalytic reaction but also inhibit the formation of zinc anode dendrites, thereby achieving a comprehensive improvement in the performance of ZABs. Under the action of the KI additive, the optimized Ag30%@LCO catalyst shows a decreased overpotential from 460 to 220 mV at j = 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, while the assembled ZAB shows reduced charging potential (1.8 V), and long cycle stability (180 h). Furthermore, the morphology characterization results indicate a reduction in dendrites on the Zn anode. Both experimental and calculated results indicate that the presence of I<sup>−</sup> as a reaction modifier alters the trajectory of the conventional oxygen evolution reaction, resulting in a more thermodynamically favorable pathway. The introduction of KI additives as electrolytes provides a straightforward approach to developing comprehensively improved ZABs.**

# **1. Introduction**

With the rapid development of society, the existing fossil energy (e.g., oil, natural gas, and nuclear power) is insufficient to meet the growing demands of society.[\[1,2\]](#page-6-0) Zn-air batteries (ZABs) are promising power sources for future electric vehicles and portable electronic devices due to their exceptionally high theoretical energy density (1086 Wh kg<sup>−</sup>1) and safety.[\[3,4\]](#page-6-0) However, two major barriers must be overcome before ZABs can be

J. Ran, P. Chen, D. Gao Laboratory for Magnetism and Magnetic Materials Laboratory Lanzhou University Lanzhou 730000, China E-mail: [gaodq@lzu.edu.cn](mailto:gaodq@lzu.edu.cn)

J. Ran, X. Quan, M. Si Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology School of Materials and Energy Lanzhou University

Lanzhou 730000, China E-mail: [sims@lzu.edu.cn](mailto:sims@lzu.edu.cn)

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202402052>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202402052**

practically applied: 1) sluggish oxygen reduction/evolution reaction (ORR/OER) kinetics on the air cathode; 2) irregular growth of zinc anode dendrites or severe passivation leads to significant voltage hysteresis and poor cycle life.[\[5–9\]](#page-6-0)

To date, most research works focus on designing and optimizing cathode catalyst materials to improve aqueous ZABs.[\[10,11\]](#page-7-0) However, poor contact between the solid catalyst and the discharge product often leads to significant charge polarization.[\[12\]](#page-7-0) Additionally, zinc dendrites remain one of the major bottlenecks in the development of ZABs.[\[13\]](#page-7-0) Electrolyte additive engineering is an innovative and effective method. Several studies have demonstrated that incorporating diverse additives into the electrolyte can effectively address the aforementioned issues.[\[14,15\]](#page-7-0) Redox mediators (RMs) as a highly efficient liquid electrolyte additive offer a novel catalytic mode in a homogeneous manner by altering the reaction process to a solution pathway that can significantly enhance oxygen electrocatalytic reaction kinetics.[\[16–20\]](#page-7-0) Among

various RMs, iodine (I2)-containing species has been shown to be effective in reducing overpotential and tuning battery chemistry, attributed to its high redox kinetics, variable valence, low redox potential, and stable voltage profile.[\[21–23\]](#page-7-0) Previous reports have shown that CsI was introduced by Park et al. as a multifunctional redox mediator. CsI ionizes into Cs<sup>+</sup> and I<sup>−</sup> in the electrolyte, which hinders the growth of Li dendrite and reduces the overpotential, respectively.[\[24\]](#page-7-0) However, CsI may in some cases be affected by its larger ion Cs<sup>+</sup>, leading to some adverse effects such as reduced solubility or increased reactivity. In contrast, KI has a higher solubility in water, so it can provide more conductive ions, promote the ionic conductivity of the electrolyte, and help improve battery performance. KI may show better stability in some systems, which can increase the stability of the electrolyte, reduce side reactions, and improve battery cycle life. Moreover, Recent research indicates that (Pt, Ru)-based catalysts showed exceptional activity for single iodine oxidation reaction (IOR) and/or ORR.[\[25–28\]](#page-7-0) However, due to their high price and rarity, there is an urgent need to develop economically beneficial alternatives.

Perovskite oxide (ABO3) is considered one of the most attractive electrocatalyst constituents due to its exceptional characteristics, including abundant electronic structures, excellent stability

\_small

16136829, 2024, 43, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.202402052 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Feeting Commons Licensee and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Feeting Commons Licensee).

in various environments, and low cost. [29] In particular, LaCoO<sub>3</sub> has been recognized as a stable and active OER catalyst in alkaline solutions.[30] Shao-Horn et al. demonstrated that the OER/ORR activity of perovskite is related to the occupancy of the  $e_a \approx 1$  orbital and the covalency between the transition metal and oxygen.<sup>[31]</sup> However, the e<sub>a</sub>≈1 orbital of pure phase LaCoO<sub>3</sub>, which hinders the adsorption/desorption of oxygen-containing groups during the electrochemical OER/ORR process, significantly impacts its oxygen electrocatalytic performance.[32,33] Therefore, researchers have proposed various strategies to regulate the electronic structure of perovskites, including doping,<sup>[34]</sup> defect engineering,<sup>[35]</sup> stress engineering, [36] heterojunctions, [37] etc. Among them, developing perovskite-based composites is beneficial for promoting stability as well as improving reaction kinetics.[38] For example, Alshehri et al. fabricated LaCoO3@rGO highly efficient OER/ORR electrocatalysts by the ultra-sonication process.<sup>[39]</sup> Similarly, Zhang et al. reported an excellent ORR electrocatalyst consisting of LaCoO<sub>3.δ</sub> (LC) perovskite and Ag.<sup>[40]</sup> Compared to the conventional post-loading approach used in constructing Ag-decorated catalysts, the in situ growth technique results in a more robust interaction and uniform dispersion of Ag. This is crucial for enhancing the performance of Zn-O2 batteries.[41]

Inspired by the above discussions, bifunctional Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO catalysts were synthesized to accelerate the reaction kinetics of OER/ORR. Importantly, we introduced the KI additive into the electrolyte to reduce the charging potential of ZABs and inhibit the growth of anode dendrites, thus endows ZABs a prolonged cycle performance owing to following reasons: 1) the coupling of cathode catalyst Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO and heterogeneous interface induces spin state change in Co<sup>3+</sup> ions and introduces abundant oxygen vacancies, enhancing electron transfer rate; 2) compared with traditional oxygen electrocatalysis, iodine oxidation (electrochemical-chemical process) in an alkaline environment not only accelerates charge transfer and reduces overpotential, but also optimizes the morphology of the zinc anode during cycling. This work offers new insights into the comprehensively improved performance of the battery cathode and anode, which may promote the commercialization of future batteries.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

# 2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterization of ${\rm Ag_{30\%}}\, @\, {\rm LCO}$ Nanocomposites

Figures 1a and S1 (Supporting Information) demonstrate that the XRD patterns of the  $Ag_x$ @LCO catalysts (x = 0%, 1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%) correspond to the rhombohedral LCO perovskite (JCPDS No. 48–0123) and cubic Ag (JCPDS No. 04–0783), without any impurity phases. Especially, compared to pure phase LCO,  $Ag_x$ @LCO exhibits a negative shift in peak position, resulting in slight structural distortion. The scanning electron microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM) images show that  $Ag_{30\%}$ @LCO consists of LCO large particles with a diameter of ≈80 nm, with small Ag nanoparticles distributed uniformly (Figures S2–S4, Supporting Information). Remarkably, clear interfaces between Ag and LCO are generated in the prepared  $Ag_{30\%}$ @LCO (Figure 1b), which favor the ad-

sorption/desorption of intermediates and electrochemical products during the catalytic process. The lattice fringes of 0.24 and 0.27 nm correspond to the (111) and (110) faces of Ag and LCO, respectively. (Figure 1c). Simultaneously, the interface junction exhibits a large number of oxygen vacancies and lattice distortions that enhance the exposure of active sites, facilitate the release of generated gases, and promote the transport of electrolytes during the electrocatalytic process. Additionally, energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping results confirmed that Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO indeed contained La, Co, O, and Ag elements (Figures S5, Supporting Information). Subsequently, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) reveals the chemical composition and surface valence state of the Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO and LCO nanostructure (Figure 1d-f). The O 1s spectrum can be decomposed into three peaks representing lattice oxygen (O<sub>1</sub>, 528.6 eV), oxygen vacancies (O<sub>II</sub>, 530.9 eV), and surface absorbed oxygen  $(O_{III}, 532.7 \text{ eV})$  (Figure 1d). The relative  $O_{II}$  content in the article is defined as  $O_{\text{II}}$  / $O_{\text{total}}$ , which is calculated by integrating the peak area of the XPS spectrum.<sup>[43]</sup> The Ag<sub>30%</sub>@LCO sample exhibits a higher O<sub>II</sub> content (67.6%) compared to LaCoO<sub>3</sub> (46.7%), indicating that the introduction of Ag results in the creation of a significant number of oxygen vacancies. Research has shown that tailoring oxygen vacancies can effectively tune the electronic structure and surface adsorption or desorption ability of perovskite oxides.[44] This effect is also observed in electron spin resonance (ESR) as shown in the inset of Figure 1d. The high-resolution Co 2p spectrum in Ag $_{30\%}$  @LCO reveals peaks at 779.6 and 794.8 eV for the  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  of  $Co^{3+}$ , respectively, and peaks at 780.9 and 795.7 eV for the  $Co^{2+}$   $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively (Figure 1e). Notably, the XPS spectrum peak position of Co shifts to higher energy after the introduction of Ag in comparison with LCO. A lower Co oxidation state is correlated with the formation of oxygen vacancies. [45] The Ag 3d peak was deconvoluted into two peaks at 368.0 and 374.0 eV, indicating the presence of metallic Ag<sup>[42]</sup> (Figure 1f). Furthermore, the strong correlation between the fine structures identified in electron-energyloss spectroscopy (EELS) spectra and the electronic structure in transition-metal oxides has been widely recognized. [46] In the O K edges of Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO and LCO (Figure 1g), pre-peak A at around 531.4 eV represents the hybridization of unoccupied O 2p and Co 3d orbitals, peak B (537.3 eV) ascribes the hybridization of O 2p with La 5d, and peak C (544.5 eV) is attributed to the hybridization of O 2p with Co 4sp.  $^{[47]}$  The pre-peak A is significantly correlated with the spin configuration of LCO. Specifically, the higher-spin state shows a lower intensity pre-peak, and the peak split indicates that some electrons in  $t_{2g}$  orbitals fill the  $e_g$  orbitals, as documented in previous studies. [48,49] Moreover, the Co L<sub>2,3</sub> edges of Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO exhibit a noticeable chemical shift, in which the L<sub>3</sub> peak shifts toward lower energy compared with LCO (Figure 1h). This chemical shift suggests a transition in spin-state toward the higher-spin state for Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO (Low spin state, LS  $\rightarrow$  intermediate spin state IS). In LCO, the spin state is determined by the  $e_{\alpha}$ - $t_{2\alpha}$  gap (r), which is influenced by the crystal field (CF) and the exchange interaction (W/2). The value r is calculated as r =CF-W/2.<sup>[50]</sup> The t<sub>2g</sub> orbitals are fully occupied while the e<sub>g</sub> orbitals are unoccupied in diamagnetic Co $^{3+}$  ( $t_{2g}^{\phantom{2g}6}e_{g}^{\phantom{2g}0}$ , LS). The transition (LS  $\rightarrow$  IS) between spin states results in the movement of electrons from the  $t_{2g}$  to  $e_g$  orbitals, leading to an increase in the magnetic moment (Figures S6, Supporting Information). This

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) XRD pattern of LCO and Ag30%@LCO. b,c) HR-TEM images. XPS spectrum of the Ag30%@LCO and LCO samples: d) O 1s (inset: ESR spectra), e) Co 2p, and f) Ag 3d, respectively. The EELS spectrum of g) the O K-edge and h) Co L-edge for Ag30%@LCO and LCO. (i) DOS curves of Ag@LCO and Ag@LCO-Ov.

means that the magnetic state has more eg electrons than the diamagnetic state.

Subsequently, the electronic structures of Ag@LCO with O vacancy (Ag@LCO-Ov), Ag@LCO, and LCO were explored through density functional theory (DFT) simulations. A heterojunction model was constructed by using the (001) plane of LCO and the (111) plane of Ag (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The density of states (DOS) analysis (Figure 1i) demonstrates a significant change in the material properties caused by the formation of a heterogeneous interface between Ag and LCO. After the introduction of Ag particles, the materials Ag@LCO and Ag@LCO-Ov exhibit metalloids, leading to improved intrinsic conductivity and greatly enhanced electron transfer ability. As anticipated, the Fermi level of Ag@LCO is predominantly influenced by the Ag d-, Co d-, and O p-orbitals, providing additional evidence of the significant impact of heterogeneity. To analyze the interatomic bonding situation of the Ag@LCO after structural optimization, the differential charge density diagram was calculated. Figure S8 (Supporting Information) illustrates that electrons are less localized around the interface, resulting in faster electron transport during the reaction and the creation of an electron-fast transport channel.[\[51\]](#page-7-0)

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Properties of Ag@LCO Nanocomposites**

As aforementioned, the Ag@LCO has abundant oxygen vacancies and a tailored electronic structure, which is expected to result in exceptional electrocatalytic performance. The electrocatalytic performance of a series of Ag*x*@LCO samples was evaluated in a three-electrode system with 1 m KOH electrolyte for OER. It is evident that Ag30%@LCO exhibits an overpotential of 240 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a lower Tafel slope of 144.4 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, surpassing the LCO (560 mV @ 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, 266.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and other reported electrocatalysts. This suggests that the coupling effects between Ag and LCO play a significant role in promoting catalytic activity (Table S1, Supporting Information). Furthermore, as the performance of oxygen electrocatalysis is closely

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) LSV plots for OER in KOH and KOH/KI for OER. b) The overpotential and Tafel slope curves. c) EIS Nyquist plots. d) CV curves of the Ag30%@LCO in KOH, KOH/KI solutions at a scan rate of 10 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. e) CV plots of Ag30%@LCO at scan rates of 5–500 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in KOH/KI solution. f) The free energy diagrams of the Ag30%@LCO, and Ag30%@LCO-Ov. g) I<sup>−</sup> oxidation reaction (IOR) free energy diagrams of the Ag30%@LCO-Ov. h) The reaction mechanisms of the OER and IOR process for the case of Ag30%@LCO-Ov.

related to the nature of the electrolyte, we introduced the KI additive into the KOH electrolyte during the test. After introducing KI into the electrolyte, both the overpotential and Tafel slope values decreased. The degree of decline showed a trend of first increasing and then decreasing with the increase in KI concentration. (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The Ag30%@LCO catalyst achieves an overpotential of 220 V under 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 137.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with the addition of 1% KI addition (**Figure 2**a,b). This suggests that the I<sup>−</sup> additive accelerates the oxidation reaction kinetics of the catalyst as it is easier to oxidize than hydroxide during the OER reaction. The Nyquist plots from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy indicate that Ag30%@LCO has a low charge transfer resistance in KOH/KI solution (Figure 2c), which suggests rapid kinetics for the OER. Additionally, Ag30%@LCO exhibits the highest double-layer capacitance (Cdl) value of 8.7 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with KI additive, which is significantly higher than both Ag30%@LCO (3.6 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and LCO (2.6 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) without KI additive (Figure S10, Supporting Information). The observation indicates that Ag30%@LCO-KOH/KI has the largest electrochemically active surface area (ECSA).[\[52\]](#page-7-0) To gain a better understanding of the effect of the KI additive on the oxidation reaction process, the transformation of iodine species can be monitored by examining cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves at different scan rates in KOH solution containing KI additive (Figure 2d). Figure 2e shows that by adjusting the scan rate in the KOH/KI solution from 5 to 500 mV s<sup>−</sup>1, two peaks A and B gradually appeared. Anodic peak A stands for the oxidation of I<sup>−</sup>, whereas cathode peak B represents the I2/ IO3 <sup>−</sup> reduction peak in the solution.[\[53\]](#page-7-0) The kinetics of the 2-electron pathway from I<sup>−</sup> to I2 is much faster than the complex direct 6-electron pathway from I<sup>−</sup> to IO3 <sup>−</sup>, suggesting that I- is initially electrochemically oxidized to the unstable intermediate I2. However, I2 is unstable in alkaline environments and rapidly undergoes chemically disproportionate into I<sup>−</sup> and IO3 −. [\[54\]](#page-7-0) Furthermore, the peak current density of peak A correlates with the square root of the scan rate (inset Figure 2e), indicating that the diffusion hinders the oxidation of I<sup>−</sup>. [\[55\]](#page-7-0) Afterward, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to elucidate the mechanism behind the improved catalytic activity and reduced onset potential of Ag30%@LCO in KOH and KOH/KI electrolytes, respectively. Figure 2f shows that

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) The liquid ZAB diagram. b) The OCV curves of liquid ZABs (inset: the multimeter measured results). c) Plots of discharge-specific capacities at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. d) Polarization plots. e) Power density plots of the liquid ZABs. f) Charge–discharge cycle curves for Ag30%@LCO and LCO in KOH electrolyte at 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. g) Galvanostatic discharge–charge cycling curves for Ag30%@LCO in KOH and KOH/KI electrolyte at 2 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Each cycle charges for 10 min and discharges for 10 min.). h) Charge rate performance of the Ag30%@LCO-based ZABs in KOH and KOH/KI electrolyte. i) Two ZABs connected in a series of light yellow, green, red, and blue LEDs.

the Gibbs free energy change (rG) for the rate-determining step from \*O to \*OOH in the Ag30%@LCO-Ov catalyst (1.64 eV) is lower than that in the Ag30%@LCO catalyst (1.83 eV), indicating a lower energy barrier for the Ag30%@LCO-Ov catalyst. This result is consistent with the findings presented in Figure [2a.](#page-3-0) However, when the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is replaced by the iodine oxidation reaction (IOR), the rate-determining step changes to \*I→I2. The Gibbs free energy change (rG = 0.59 eV) for the Ag30%@LCO-Ov is lower than that observed in the OER process (Figure [2g\)](#page-3-0). These results clearly explain why the oxidative performance in Figure [2a](#page-3-0) is further enhanced with the addition of KI. The chronoamperometric measurement indicates that the current remains nearly unchanged after 20 h under the potential of 1.6 V in KOH/KI electrolyte. Additionally, after 10 000 cycles, the LSV plot of Ag30%@LCO shows no major changes, suggesting the stability of the catalyst during the test (Figure

S11, Supporting Information). Furthermore, Ag30%@LCO exhibits outstanding ORR performance (Figures S12 and S13, Supporting Information), making it a promising candidate for ZABs design.

### **2.3. Zn-Air Battery Performance of Ag30%@LCO Nanocomposites**

The catalytic efficiency of Ag30%@LCO in the OER and ORR has motivated an investigation into its potential practical applications in ZABs with KI additive electrolyte. Consequently, we constructed a homemade liquid ZAB as shown in **Figure 3**a. Adding KI to the Ag30%@LCO -based ZAB significantly increased the open circuit voltage to 1.50 V, surpassing the values of 1.49 V for Ag30%@LCO and 1.43 V for LCO ZABs without KI, which was steady test for 20 h (Figure 3b). Figure 3c shows that the

\_\_\_\_3IIIuII

16136829, 2024, 43, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.202402052 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Feeting Commons Licensee and Conditions) on Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Feeting Commons Licensee).

specific capacity of the Ag30%@LCO-based ZAB in KI is 785.2 mAh  $g_{Zn}^{-1}$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than the counterpart values of 778.3 and 564.8 mAh  $g_{Zn}^{-1}$  for the Ag<sub>30%</sub>@LCO- and LCO-based ZABs without KI, respectively. Figure 3d shows that the Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO-based ZAB with the KI additive exhibits a significantly lower charging voltage than the ZAB without KI. Compared to KI-free cells, ZABs with the KI modifier exhibit a significantly higher peak power density of 100.7 mW cm<sup>+2</sup> (Figure 3e). Galvanostatic voltage profiles were obtained under a current density of 2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> to evaluate the rechargeability and cycling stability of ZABs, where each charging and discharging cycle lasted for 20 min (Figure 3f,g). The ZABs with Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO afford excellent lifespan cycles than LCO-based ZABs (Figure 3f). Figure 3g shows the high energy efficiency of 69% of the KImodified ZAB with a notably reduced charging voltage of 1.8 V. These results exceed those achieved by previously reported catalysts, both metal-based and metal-free, which often require complex synthesis procedures and yield low efficiencies (Table S2, Supporting information). In Figure 3h, the charge profiles of ZABs at different current densities are depicted. The results indicate that the inclusion of KI decreases the charge voltage and improves the stability of the ZAB, especially at high currents of 25 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. This improvement can be attributed to the superior conductivities offered by KI-modified. Moreover, two liquidstate Zn-air batteries were also connected in series to power a commercial light-emitting diode (LED) with a rated voltage  $\approx$ 3 V (Figure 3i).

#### 2.4. Effect of the Introduction of KI Additive on Zinc Anode

To investigate the mechanism behind the performance enhancement of Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO improvements in KOH/KI electrolytes, we conducted a series of characterizations on the tested catalysts and zinc flakes after measuring ZABs. Initially, we analyzed the conductivity and pH of both KOH and KOH/KI electrolytes before testing, as presented in Table \$3 (Supporting Information). Our research indicates that the addition of a small quantity of KI does not affect the conductivity or pH of the electrolyte. Following the 12-h charge-discharge durability test, it was observed that the KI-free electrolyte changed color from transparent to a light brown hue (as illustrated in Figure 4a). This indicates the air cathode experiences minimal catalyst shedding and carbon erosion, especially under higher charging voltages. [56] Subsequently, we employ XRD, SEM, and XPS techniques to investigate the morphological alterations and chemical state of the Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO catalyst and Zn foil. As shown in Figure 4b, the catalyst maintains its original Ag30%@LCO phase structure after testing in pure KOH electrolyte, while the catalyst underwent an obvious phase change (Ag@LCO| AgI@LCO) after testing in KOH/KI electrolyte. This change occurred due to the reaction between the part of I<sup>-</sup> in the electrolyte and the catalyst Ag, which accelerated the mass transfer rate at the liquid-solid interface and the reaction. The XPS spectra of Ag 3d exhibit two characteristic peaks at 374.6 eV (Ag 3d<sub>3/2</sub>) and 368.7 eV (Ag 3d<sub>5/2</sub>) (Figure 4c). [57] Compared with Ag $_{30\%}$  @LCO-KOH, the Ag $_{30\%}$  @LCO-KOH/KI peaks of Ag exhibit a positive shift along the energy axis, indicating electron loss of Ag upon coupling with I-. This results in an increase in its valence state. Moreover, the analysis of the I 3d

spectra reveals a perfect match with the two distinct peaks detected in AgI, demonstrating the successful synthesis of AgI (Figure 4d).[58] Compared to the XPS spectra of O 1s and Co 2p (Figure S14, Supporting Information) after testing in KOH and KOH/KI, the formation of AgI confirms an elevated valence state of cobalt and the presence of oxygen vacancies on the surface. This is evident from the observed positive shift (≈0.6 eV) in the binding energy of cobalt and the result of ESR.[59] Furthermore, the TEM and SEM results demonstrate that the morphology of the catalyst remains unchanged after testing with various electrolytes (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information). Figure 4e shows the XRD pattern of Zn foil after cycling. The Zn surface exhibits a significant amount of the by-products in the KOH electrolyte. This indicates that the addition of KI effectively limits the formation of co-products in comparison to the system without KI. Additionally, the  $\rm I_{(002)}/\rm I_{(101)}$  ratio increases from 0.94 to 1.03 when KI is included, demonstrating a preference for Zn<sup>2+</sup> deposition on the (002) plane in the KOH/KI electrolyte. [60] Concurrently, the XPS findings reveal that Zn<sup>2+</sup> tends to transition to a higher valence state in the KOH electrolyte during the identical reaction time (Figure S17a, Supporting Information). This suggests that Zn<sup>2+</sup> diffuses at an accelerated rate in KOH and readily forms Zn dendrites, consequently resulting in a decline in battery cycle performance.<sup>[61]</sup> Furthermore, SEM results reveal that a compact surface with no obvious dendrite formation was observed on the zinc anode with the KOH/KI electrolyte. However, a rough surface with a significant presence of dendrites was detected on the zinc anode using the KOH electrolyte (Figure 4f,h; Figure S17b-f, Supporting Information). This indicates that the KI additive effectively muffles the by-product formation, resulting in a more stable electrolyte system. Figure 4i illustrates the effect of KI additives on the Zn anode based on the above experimental results. Compared to traditional alkaline electrolytes, adding KI helps to balance the diffusion of Zn<sup>2+</sup> ions and regulate electron exchange at a slower rate during charging. This results in the formation of a smooth and flat zinc metal surface, which improves the cycle performance of

### 3. Conclusion

In summary, we have developed an  $Ag_{30\%}$  @LCO-based catalyst as a bifunctional catalyst for rechargeable ZABs. The experimental results indicate that the formation of Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO heterojunction introduces a significant number of oxygen vacancies, enhances the conductivity, and regulates the spin state of Co<sup>3+</sup> (LS|IS). This regulation makes it easier to adsorb and desorb reaction intermediates during the reaction process, thereby improving the oxygen electrocatalytic performance. Additionally, the introduction of KI additives significantly reduces the overpotential of the OER reaction and enhances the performance of ZABs. This includes a low charging voltage (1.68 V), high energy efficiency (76.5%), and long-term cycle stability. The DFT calculations reveal the high conductivity and fast I-oxidation electrochemicalchemical reaction process of the Ag<sub>30%</sub> @LCO catalyst. This study is expected to provide valuable insights into the development of bifunctional catalysts and electrolyte additives and contribute to the future commercialization of ZABs.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) charge/discharge cycle performances at 5 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (per cycle was tested for 20 min). (Inset: the electrolytes and Zn foil's color change after cycling). b) Corresponding XRD pattern of Ag30%@LCO after the test. The XPS spectra of c) Ag 3d d) I 5d, and e) Zn 2p after the test with and without KI additives electrolyte. f–h) After and before battery cycling SEM images of Zn flakes. i) Schematic illustrations of the reaction process of the zinc anode with and without KI additives.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the Key R & D projects in Gansu Province (Grant No. 23YFGA0002), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. lzujbky-2022-it12).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

electrolyte additives, oxygen electrocatalysts, rechargeable Zn-air batteries, zinc dendrite

> Received: March 14, 2024 Revised: June 30, 2024 Published online: July 6, 2024

16136829, 2024, 43, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202402052 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<sup>[1]</sup> R. F. Service, *Science* **2021**, *372*, 890.

<sup>[2]</sup> W. Sun, F. Wang, B. Zhang, M. Y. Zhang, V. Küpers, X. Ji, C. Theile, P. Bieker, K. Xu, C. S. Wang, M. Winter, *Science* **2021**, *371*, 46.

<sup>[3]</sup> P. Zhang, K. Chen, J. Li, M. Wang, M. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Pan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2303243.

<sup>[4]</sup> T. Gu, D. Zhang, Y. Yang, C. Peng, D. Xue, C. Zhi, M. Zhu, J. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2212299.

<sup>[5]</sup> X. Zhou, S. Chu, Z. Jin, K. Hu, P. Liu, H.-J. Qiu, X. Lin, *ACS Materials Lett* **2023**, *5*, 1656.

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>[6] E. Y. Choi, D. E. Kim, S. Y. Lee, C. B. Park, C. K. Kim, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 122386.
- [7] J. Zhou, Y. Mei, F. Wu, Y. Hao, W. Ma, L. Li, M. Xie, R. Chen, *Angew. Chem.Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 2023044.
- [8] D. Qiu, B. Li, C. Zhao, J. Dang, G. Chen, H. Qiu, H. Miao, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *61*, 102903.
- [9] X. Song, L. Bai, C. Wang, D. Wang, K. Xu, J. Dong, Y. Li, Q. Shen, J. Yang, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 15113.
- [10] a) J. Ran, L. Wang, M. Si, X. Liang, D. Gao, *Small* **2022**, *19*, 2206367; b) X. Wei, S. Cao, H. Xu, C. Jiang, Z. Wang, Y. Ouyang, X. Lu, F. Dai, D. Sun, *ACS Materials Lett* **2022**, *4*, 1991.
- [11] a) J. Li, M. Lin, W. Huang, X. Liao, Y. Ma, L. Zhou, L. Mai, J. Lu, *Small Methods* **2023**, *7*, 2201664; b) Q. Yu, J. Lv, J. Li, R. Yu, J. Wu, S. Xi, X. Li, N. Xu, L. Zhou, L. Mai, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 12389.
- [12] Z. Guo, Q. Zhang, C. Wang, Y. Zhang, S. Dong, G. Cui, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2108993.
- [13] X. Wang, Sun, C., Z. S. Wu, *SusMat* **2023**, *3*, 180.
- [14] Y. Zhu, M. Ge, F. Ma, Q. Wang, P. Huang, C. Lai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *34*, 2301964.
- [15] Y. Du, Y. Li, B. B. Xu, T. X. Liu, X. Liu, F. Ma, X. Gu, C. Lai, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2104640.
- [16] J. B. Park, S. H. Lee, H. G. Jung, D. Aurbach, Y. K. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1704162.
- [17] B. D. McCloskey, D. A. Addison, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 772.
- [18] Y. Qiao, S. Wu, Y. Sun, S. Guo, J. Yi, P. He, H. Zhou, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2017**, *2*, 1869.
- [19] M. Tułodziecki, G. M. Leverick, C. V. Amanchukwu, Y. Katayama, D. G. Kwabi, F. Bardé, P. T. Hammond, Y. Shao-Horn, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 1828.
- [20] Z. Peng, *Nat. Chem.* **2023**, *15*, 1206.
- [21] I. Temprano, T. Liu, E. Petrucco, J. H. J. Ellison, G. Kim, E. Jónsson, C. P. Grey, *Joule* **2020**, *4*, 2501.
- [22] X. Bi, J. Li, M. Dahbi, J. Alami, K. Amine, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *34*, 2106148.
- [23] T. Liu, G. Kim, E. Jónsson, E. Castillo-Martinez, I. Temprano, Y. Shao, J. Carretero-González, R. N. Kerber, C. P. Grey, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 66.
- [24] C. K. Lee, Y. J. Park, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 8561.
- [25] S. Zhao, T. Liu, Y. Dai, J. Wang, Y. Wang, Z. Guo, J. Yu, I. T. Bello, M. Ni, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *320*, 121992.
- [26] Q. Liu, C. Xia, C. He, W. Guo, Z. P. Wu, Z. Li, Q. Zhao, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202210567.
- [27] Y. Zhang, H. Qin, M. Alfred, H. Ke, Y. Cai, Q. Wang, F. Huang, B. Liu, P. Lv, Q. Wei, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2021**, *42*, 88.
- [28] Z. Song, J. Ding, B. Liu, X. Liu, X. Han, Y. Deng, W. Hu, C. Zhong, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1908127.
- [29] a) M. Han, I. Gómez-Recio, D. G. Martín, N. O. Peña, M. L. Ruiz-González, M. Selmane, J. M. González-Calbet, O. Ersen, A. Zitolo, B. Lassalle-Kaiser, D. Portehault, C. Laberty-Robert, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 5733; b) P. Anand, M.-S. Wong, Y.-P. Fu, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *58*, 362.
- [30] a) Y. Duan, S. Sun, S. Xi, X. Ren, Y. Zhou, G. Zhang, H. Yang, Y. Du, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 10534; b) J. Ran, T. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, C. Xu, S. Xi, D. Gao, *Chem. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 3439.
- [31] a) J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 546; b) W. T. Hong, M. Risch, K. A. Stoerzinger, A. Grimaud, J. Suntivich, Shao-Horn, Y., *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 1404.
- [32] H. Wang, X. Chen, D. Huang, M. Zhou, D. Ding, H. Luo, *Chem-CatChem* **2020**, *12*, 2768.
- [33] a) C. Yang, H. Xie, B. Li, C. Shi, C. He, N. Zhao, E. Liu, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2023**, *941*, 168918; b) T. Wang, H. He, Z. Meng, S. Li, M. Xu, X. Liu, Y. Zhang, M. Liu, M. Feng, *ChemPhysChem* **2023**, *24*, 2022008.
- [34] a) S. She, Y. Zhu, X. Wu, Z. Hu, A. Shelke, W.-F. Pong, Y. Chen, Y. Song, M. Liang, C.-T. Chen, H. Wang, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*

- **2022**, *32*, 2111091; b) Y. Liu, C. Ye, S. N. Zhao, Y. Wu, C. Liu, J. Huang, L. Xue, J. Sun, W. Zhang, X. Wang, P. Xiong, J. Zhu, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *99*, 107344.
- [35] a) M.-J. Choi, T. L. Kim, J. K. Kim, T. H. Lee, S. A. Lee, C. Kim, K. Hong, C. W. Bark, K.-T. Ko, H. W. Jang, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 8040; b) S. F. Li, J. Zheng, L. Hu, Y. Ma, D. Yan, *Dalton Trans.* **2023**, *52*, 4207.
- [36] a) Y. Tong, Y. Guo, P. Chen, H. Liu, M. Zhang, L. Zhang, W. Yan, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Chem* **2017**, *3*, 812; b) B. You, M. T. Tang, F. C. Tsai, X. A.-P. Zheng, H. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1807001.
- [37] a) J. Ran, J. F. Wu, Y. Hu, M. Shakouri, B. Xia, D. Gao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 1506; b) N. K. Oh, C. Kim, J. Lee, O. Kwon, Y. Choi, G. Y. Jung, H. Y. Lim, S. K. Kwak, G. Kim, H. Park, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1723.
- [38] a) Y. Zhu, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1603793; b) X. Y. Wang, Z. Y. Pan, X. F. Chu, K. K. Huang, Y. G. Cong, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, L. P. Li, G. S. Li, S. H. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 11720.
- [39] J. Ahmed, T. Ahamad, N. Alhokbany, M. A. M. Khan, P. Arunachalam, M. S. Amer, R. M. Alotaibi, S. M. Alshehri, *Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry* **2023**, *121*, 100.
- [40] Y. Liang, D. Ye, N. Han, P. Liang, J. Wang, G. Yang, C. Zhang, X. He, M. Chen, C. Zhang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2021**, *391*, 138908.
- [41] a) D. Neagu, T.-S. Oh, D. N. Miller, H. Ménard, S. M. Bukhari, S. R. Gamble, R. J. Gorte, J. M. Vohs, J. T. S. Irvine, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 8120; b) Y. Cong, Q. Tang, X. Wang, M. Liu, J. Liu, Z. Geng, R. Cao, X. Zhang, W. Zhang, K. Huang, S. Feng, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 11743.
- [42] Q. Fan, S. Zhang, L. Sun, X. Dong, L. Zhang, W. Shan, Z. Zhu, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2016**, *37*, 428.
- [43] a) X. Zheng, B. Li, L. Shen, Y. Cao, Y. Zhan, S. Zheng, S. Wang, L. Jiang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *329*, 122526; b) L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606793; c) J. Bao, X. D. Zhang, B. Fan, J. J. Zhang, M. Zhou, W. L. Yang, X. Hu, H. Wang, B. C. Pan, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 7399; d) Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185.
- [44] K. Zhu, F. Shi, X. Zhu, W. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *73*, 104761.
- [45] C. Zhang, F. Zheng, Z. Zhang, D. Xiang, C. Cheng, Z. Zhuang, P. Li, X. Li, W. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 9059.
- [46] B. Singh, P. Mannu, Y.-C. Huang, R. Prakash, S. Shen, C.-L. Dong, A. Indra, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202211585.
- [47] J.-H. Kwon, W. S. Choi, Y.-K. Kwon, R. Jung, J.-M. Zuo, H. N. Lee, M. Kim, *Chem. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 2496.
- [48] a) N. Biškup, J. Salafranca, V. Mehta, M. P. Oxley, Y. Suzuki, S. Pennycook, J. S. T. Pantelides, M. Varela, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2014**, *112*, 087202; b) V. V. Mehta, N. Biskup, C. Jenkins, E. Arenholz, M. Varela, Y. Suzuki, *Phys. Rev. B* **2015**, *91*, 144418.
- [49] a) J. Gazquez, W. Luo, M. P. Oxley, M. Prange, M. A. Torija, M. Sharma, C. Leighton, S. T. Pantelides, S. J. Pennycook, M. Varela, *Nano Lett.* **2011**, *11*, 973; b) R. F. Klie, J. C. Zheng, Y. Zhu, M. Varela, J. Wu, C. Leighton, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2007**, *99*, 047203.
- [50] G. E. Sterbinsky, P. J. Ryan, J.-W. Kim, E. Karapetrova, J. X. Ma, J. Shi, J. C. Woicik, *Phys. Rev. B* **2012**, *85*, 020403.
- [51] a) J. Chen, Q. Long, K. Xiao, T. Ouyang, N. Li, S. Ye, Z.-Q. Liu, *Sci. Bull.* **2021**, *66*, 1063; b) R. Lu, C. Quan, C. Zhang, Q. He, X. Liao, Z. Wang, Y. Zhao, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 6067.
- [52] a) J.-H. Park, H. J. Kwon, D. Y. Lee, S.-J. Suh, *Small* **2024**, 2400046; b) S. Deka, M. K. Jaiswal, P. Rajputcd, B. Choudhury, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 9532.
- [53] Y. Tang, Y. Li, Z. Yu, Y. Bai, Y. Chen, Y. Sun, P. Wan, *Green Chem.* **2012**, *14*, 334;
- [54] B. Grgur, M. Gvozdenovi´c, J. Stevanovi´c, B. Jugovi´c, L. T. Trišovi´c, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2006**, *124*, 47.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [55] G. Strack, S. Babanova, K. E. Farrington, H. R. Luckarift, P. Atanassov, G. R. Johnson, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2013**, *160*, G3178.
- [56] Z. Song, J. Ding, B. Liu, Y. Shen, J. Liu, X. Han, Y. Deng, C. Zhong, W. Hu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132331.
- [57] X. Liu, J. Xu, Z. Ni, R. Wang, J. You, R. Guo, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2019**, *356*, 22.
- [58] a) G. Yang, L. Wang, S. Zheng, H. Wu, D. Hao, Q. Li, H. Du, H. Yamashita, Q. Wang, *J. Environ. Chem. Eng.* **2023**, *11*, 110071; b) S. Luo, X. Xiao, Y. Wang, M. Lu, *J. Chem. Technol. Biot.* **2021**, *96*, 2298.
- [59] Z. F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 329.
- [60] a) J. Hao, X. Li, X. Zeng, D. Li, J. Mao, Z. Guo, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3917; b) Z. Liu, R. Wang, Y. Gao, S. Zhang, J. Wan, J. Mao, L. Zhang, H. Li, J. Hao, G. Li, L. Zhang, C. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2308463.
- [61] Q. Zhang, Y. Li, E. Poh, Z. Xing, M. Zhang, M. Wang, Z. Sun, J. Pan, S. V. C. Vummaleti, J. Zhang, W. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2301748.