---
source: Song 等 - 2020 - Sodium‐nickel pyrophosphate as a novel oxygen evolution electrocatalyst in alkaline medium.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 66.580s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:54:30.911998Z
---

PROFESSOR DONG-WAN KIM (Orcid ID : 0000-0002-1635-6082)

Article type : Rapid Communication

# Sodium-nickel pyrophosphate as a novel oxygen evolution electrocatalyst in alkaline medium

Hee Jo Song, Hyunseok Yoon, Bobae Ju, and Dong-Wan Kim\*

School of Civil, Environmental and Architectural Engineering, Korea University, Seoul 02841, South Korea

## **Corresponding Author**

\*E-mail: dwkim1@korea.ac.kr (D.-W. Kim)

This article has been accepted for publication and undergone full peer review but has not been through the copyediting, typesetting, pagination and proofreading process, which may lead to differences between this version and the <u>Version of Record</u>. Please cite this article as <u>doi:</u> 10.1111/JACE.17195

#### **Abstract**

The development of robust and low-cost oxygen evolution reaction (OER) electrocatalysts is a challenging issue in electrochemical water-splitting technology. Tailoring the electrocatalysts through nano- and composition-engineering is an effective strategy to enhance the intrinsic and extrinsic electrocatalytic activities. In this study, for the first time, sodium-nickel pyrophosphate (Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>) is proposed as a novel OER electrocatalyst in alkaline environment. First, the electrocatalytic performance of micron-sized Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> (Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron) is evaluated. In addition, nanoscale Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> (Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano) and Fe-substituted Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano (Na<sub>2</sub>Ni)<sub>1</sub> xFe<sub>x</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano) are synthesized to improve the electrocatalytic performance of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>. Although Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron exhibits low electrocatalytic OER activity in alkaline medium, its catalytic activity can be significantly improved through reducing the particle size and substituting Fe in the Ni sites. The synthesized Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.75</sub>Fe<sub>0.25</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano exhibits optimal catalytic activity with an overpotential of 300 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and long-term durability with continuous O<sub>2</sub> generation over 100 h in alkaline medium.

**Keywords:** Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>, nanoparticle, oxygen evolution reaction, electrocatalyst

## 1. INTRODUCTION

Hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) is considered to be an ideal energy carrier and fuel for the near future due to its high energy density and carbon-neutral combustion products.<sup>1,2</sup> Combined with renewable resources, electrochemical water-splitting is expected to be a promising technology for efficient and sustainable hydrogen production.<sup>3,4</sup> The electrochemical water-splitting process involves two half-reactions: hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) at the cathode and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the anode. Out of the two, the OER is the major bottleneck in the water electrolysis process due to the sluggish kinetics originating from the four proton-coupled electron transfer reactions in the anode.<sup>5,6</sup> Therefore, exploring effective OER electrocatalysts to improve the overall system efficiency still remains a challenge.<sup>7</sup>

Noble metal-based compounds such as iridium- and ruthenium-based oxides have been regarded as state-of-the-art OER electrocatalysts due to their superior electrocatalytic activity.<sup>8,9</sup> However, high cost and scarcity restrict their large-scale commercial application.<sup>2,7</sup> So, there have been considerable efforts to develop low-cost OER electrocatalysts to replace the noble metal-based electrocatalysts.<sup>10</sup> Among them, transition-metal phosphates have attracted considerable attention as potential candidates for OER electrocatalysts due to their unique properties towards OER. Phosphate groups can act as proton acceptors that facilitate the oxidation of the transition metal and induce local distortion in the structure, which leads to favorable water oxidation.<sup>11-13</sup> Recently, transition-metal pyrophosphates such as Li<sub>2</sub>MnP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>,<sup>14</sup> Na<sub>2</sub>CoP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>,<sup>12</sup> and Co<sub>2</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub><sup>15</sup> have been reported to be effective OER electrocatalysts.

However, there have been no reports on the use of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> as an OER electrocatalyst as well as for other applications. In this work, we focus on the use of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> as a novel OER electrocatalyst in alkaline medium. Micron-sized Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> (Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron) was synthesized by a solid-state reaction process and its electrocatalytic activity was evaluated as a novel OER electrocatalyst. Meanwhile, recent studies have demonstrated that tailoring the size, morphology, and composition of electrocatalysts is an effective strategy to improve the electrocatalytic activity. <sup>16-18</sup> Therefore, we also synthesized Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> nanoparticles (Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano) and Fesubstituted Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano (Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano) to improve the intrinsic activity and enlarge the catalytic active sites of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>. Indeed, Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.75</sub>Fe<sub>0.25</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano not only exhibited significantly higher electrocatalytic activity than Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron, but also long-term durability with continuous O<sub>2</sub> generation in alkaline medium.

#### 2. EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES

# 2.1 Synthesis of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano

Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron was synthesized by a conventional solid-state reaction method. Na<sub>2</sub>CO<sub>3</sub> (Aldrich), NiO (Aldrich), and (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>HPO<sub>4</sub> (Junsei) were stoichimetrically mixed for 24 h. After mixing, the mixture was annealed at 600 °C for 1 h under an inert atmosphere flowing Ar gas. Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano was synthesized by a wet-chemical method, which has been described in detail in our previous reports.<sup>19,20</sup> Na(CH<sub>3</sub>COO) (Sigma-Aldrich), Ni(CH<sub>3</sub>COO)<sub>2</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O (Sigma-Aldrich), Fe(CH<sub>3</sub>COO)<sub>2</sub> (Alfa Aesar), NH<sub>4</sub>H<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub> (Sigma-Aldrich), and citric acid (Sigma-Aldrich) were dissolved in deionized water (D.I. water), where the ratio of Na:(NiFe):P:citric acid was 2:1:2:3. The fully dissolved solution was refluxed in a three-neck round-bottom flask at 80 °C for 6 h. After refluxing, the solution was dried and annealed at 550 °C for 1 h under flowing Ar gas. The obtained product was ball-milled using ZrO<sub>2</sub> balls with ethanol and then dried, heat-treated again under the same condition.

# 2.2 Characterization

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained with a Rigaku SmartLab diffractometer using Cu Kα radiation at a scan rate of 1° min<sup>-1</sup>. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images were obtained by a Hitachi SU-70. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping was conducted using a JEOL JEM-2100F.

# 2.3 Electrocatalytic measurements

The electrocatalytic OER properties were performed in a three-electrode cell configuration. A carbon paper (CP) casted with catalyst ink (exposed area:  $1 \times 1 \text{ cm}^2$ ) was used as the working electrode. The catalyst ink was prepared by dispersing a catalyst (20 mg) in D.I. water + IPA + Nafion mixture solution (750, 200, and 50  $\mu$ L, respectively), followed by ultrasonication over 30 min. The catalyst ink (50  $\mu$ L) was dropped onto the CP and dried. A Hg/HgO electrode and a graphite rod were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. 0.1 M KOH (pH 13) solution was used as the alkaline electrolyte. All potentials were converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the following equation:  $E_{RHE} = E_{measured} + 0.0591 \times pH + 0.098$ . Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were performed at frequencies ranging from 100 kHz to 100 mHz.

#### 3. RESUTS AND DISCUSSION

The crystal information of as-synthesized Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano is first analyzed. Figure 1a shows the XRD patterns of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano synthesized by the conventional solid-state reaction and wet-chemical methods, respectively. For the synthesis of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron, stoichiometric amounts of Na, Ni, and P sources were mixed (Na:Ni:P = 2:1:2), and this mixture was annealed at 600 °C for 1 h in Ar atmosphere. As shown in the XRD pattern of as-synthesized Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron, all the reflected peaks are in good agreement with the triclinic structure of Na<sub>3.64</sub>Ni<sub>2.18</sub>(P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>)<sub>2</sub> (PDF#11-0241, Figure 1b) without other impurities, indicating that single-phase Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> can be obtained by the annealing of a stoichiometric mixture of Na, Ni, and P. Likewise, single-phase Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano can be obtained through sol-gel and subsequent heat-treatment processes. Compared to Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron, Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano exhibits broader XRD peaks, indicating the nanocrystalline nature of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano. From the full-width at half-maximum (FWHM) at 2θ = 10.77°, the crystalline size of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano is estimated to be 21.3 nm using the Scherrer equation.

Figure 1c,d shows the SEM images of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano. The Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron particles are irregular in shape, while the Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano particles are uniform. To investigate the specific surface area, the nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms of the samples were measured at 77 K (Figure 1e). Using the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) model, the specific surface areas of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano are estimated to be 1 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> and 104 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Thus, Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano has higher specific surface area than Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron. The smaller particle size is likely to increase the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), thereby leading to higher electrocatalytic activity.

The as-synthesized samples were employed as electrocatalysts and their OER performances were evaluated in 0.1 M KOH solution, along with the performance of the benchmark nano-sized RuO<sub>2</sub> electrocatalyst for comparison. Catalyst ink coated on CP was used as a working electrode. All potentials were corrected with iR compensation and converted to the RHE scale. Figure 2a shows the polarization curves of the RuO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles (NPs), Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron, and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano obtained by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron shows a low OER activity with a high overpotential (500 mV) at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Moreover, the current density for the OER was decreased over 2.0 V by LSV from 1.0 to 2.5 V. In subsequent LSV measurements, the electrocatalytic OER activities are even worse than the former LSV measurement (Figure S1), indicating the irreversible deterioration and disappearance of electrocatalytic activity at high potentials. In contrast,

Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano shows a significantly higher OER activity than Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron. It requires an overpotential of 360 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is superior to the electrocatalytic activity of the benchmark RuO<sub>2</sub> NPs (410 mV). Furthermore, the electrocatalytic OER kinetics are investigated using Tafel plots (Figure 2b). We observe that the Tafel slope of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano (121 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) is much lower than that of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron (336 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) as well as RuO<sub>2</sub> NPs (300 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating fast kinetics of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano.

It is known that Ni<sup>3+</sup> sites act as electrocatalytic active sites for the OER.<sup>21</sup> Shown in inset of Figure 2a, Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano shows a higher anodic peak than Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron in the range 1.4–1.5 V (vs. RHE), which corresponds to the Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> anodic reaction in the alkaline solution. So, the Ni<sup>3+</sup> sites such as NiOOH are likely to be formed in Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano than in Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron; thus, the generation of more (oxy)hydroxide species enhances the OER activity. The double-layer capacitances (C<sub>dl</sub>) of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano were measured by cyclic voltammetry (CV) at a scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in a non-faradaic potential range of 1.0-1.2 V (vs. RHE); the C<sub>dl</sub> values were estimated to be 0.02 and 1.67 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (Figure 2c,d). As expected, the ECSA of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> is significantly increased by the reduction of the particle size, thus improving the OER activity of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>.

Next, we synthesized Fe-substituted  $Na_2Ni_{1-x}Fe_xP_2O_7$ -nano (x=0.25 and 0.5) to improve the electrocatalytic performance of  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano. In the synthetic process, the molar ratio of the Ni:Fe sources was controlled at 75:25 and 50:50, respectively, for x=0.25 and 0.5. As shown in the XRD pattern (Figure 3a), all the reflected peaks in  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano and  $Na_2Ni_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}P_2O_7$ -nano are in good agreement with the triclinic structure of  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$  without any impurities related to Fe, indicating that Fe is substituted into the Ni sites in the  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$  structure. The SEM and TEM images show that  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano and  $Na_2Ni_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}P_2O_7$ -nano have uniform nano-sized particles similar to  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano (Figure 3b,c and Figure S2). In addition,  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano also exhibits a high specific surface area of 83 m² g⁻¹ (Figure S3), indicating that the particle size is not affected by the Fe-substitution in  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano. The elemental composition of  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano is determined via EDS elemental mapping under scanning TEM (STEM) analysis (Figure 3d). All the elements (Na, Ni, Fe, P and O) were detected, also confirming the successful substitution of Fe.

The electrocatalytic OER performance of  $Na_2Ni_{1-x}Fe_xP_2O_7$ -nano (x = 0, 0.25, and 0.5) with different Ni/Fe ratios was also evaluated in 0.1 M KOH solution. Figure 4a,b show the polarization curves of  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano,  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano, and  $Na_2Ni_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}P_2O_7$ -nano by

LSV and the corresponding Tafel plots. The OER activity of  $Na_2Ni_{1-x}Fe_xP_2O_7$ -nano is significantly affected by the Ni/Fe ratio. Compared to  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano,  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano exhibits a significantly lower overpotential of 300 mV than  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Moreover, the Tafel slope of  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano is lower (110 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than that of unsubstituted  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano (Figure 4b), indicating that the substitution of 25 mol% Fe in  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano results in a higher OER activity and kinetics. However, further Fe substitution (50 mol%) resulted in a lower OER activity and kinetics with an overpotential of 400 mV and a Tafel slope of 162 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. EIS was conducted at an overpotential of 330 mV. Shown in the Nyquist plots (Figure S4),  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano exhibited lower charge transfer resistance of 4.1  $\Omega$  than  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -nano (10.7  $\Omega$ ), indicating the fast charge transfer after substitution of 25 mol% Fe. However, further Fe also resulted in higher charge transfer resistance (6.7  $\Omega$ ). Meanwhile, shown in the XRD patterns of  $Na_2Ni_{.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano after the 1000th CV, broad peaks with low intensity were obtained while other secondary peaks were not detected (Figure S5), suggesting the crystalline-to-amorphous transition in  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$  phase.

The long-term test of the Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano electrocatalyst is subsequently examined. Figure 4c shows the polarization curves of Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano obtained after continuous CV for 10,000 cycles (inset of Figure 4c) over the potential range 1.1–1.7 V (vs. RHE) at a scan rate of 200 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Compared to the initial state, the polarization curve shows a negligible shift after 10,000 cycles. Moreover, the chronopotentiometric test of Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano was performed. During the test, polarization curves were obtained after every 10 h (Figure 4d). Notably, Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano exhibits negligible degradation under continuous operation for 100 h at a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (inset of Figure 4d). Furthermore, the polarization curves show negligible shifts before and after the long-term chronopotentiometric test, indicating excellent catalytic durability of Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano for the OER in the alkaline solution.

# 4. CONCLUSION

In summary, we developed  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$  as a novel OER electrocatalyst in alkaline medium. Phase-pure  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -micron was synthesized by annealing a stoichiometric mixture of Na, Ni, and P. However,  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -micron exhibited a low electrocatalytic OER activity in alkaline medium. To enhance the electrocatalytic activity of  $Na_2NiP_2O_7$ -micron,  $Na_2Ni_{1-x}Fe_xP_2O_7$ -nano (x = 0, 0.25, and 0.5) was synthesized by the wet-chemical method. Indeed,  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano

exhibited a significantly higher electrocatalytic activity than Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and a long-term durability of over 100 h without any degradation in alkaline medium. Therefore, Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> and its derivatives are potential candidates for effective OER electrocatalysts.

#### **ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS**

This work is supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) Grant funded by the Ministry of Science and ICT, South Korea (2016M3A7B4909318) and by a Korea University Grant.

## **REFERENCES**

- [1] Mazloomi K, Gomes C. Hydrogen as an energy carrier: Prospects and challenges. Renew Sust Energy Rev. 2012; 16:3024–3033.
- [2] Xie L, Zhang R, Cui L, Liu D, Hao S, Ma Y, et al. High-performance electrolytic oxygen evolution in neutral media catalyzed by a cobalt phosphate nanoarray. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2017; 56:1064–1068.
- [3] Bergmann A, Zaharieva I, Dau H, Strassera P. Electrochemical water splitting by layered and 3D crosslinked manganese oxides: correlating structural motifs and catalytic activity. Energy Environ Sci. 2013; 6:2745–2755.
- [4] Nong HN, Oh HS, Reier T, Willinger E, Willinger MG, Petkov V, et al. Oxide-supported IrNiO<sub>x</sub> core-shell particles as efficient, cost-effective, and stable catalysts for electrochemical water splitting. Angew Chem Int Ed. 2015; 54:2975–2979.
- [5] Li W, Gao X, Xiong D, Wei F, Song WG, Xu J, et al. Hydrothermal synthesis of monolithic Co<sub>3</sub>Se<sub>4</sub> nanowire electrodes for oxygen evolution and overall water splitting with high efficiency and extraordinary catalytic stability. Adv Energy Mater. 2017; 7: 1602579.
- [6] Zhou H, Yu F, Zhu Q, Sun J, Qin F, Yu L, et al. Water splitting by electrolysis at high current densities under 1.6 volts. Energy Environ Sci. 2018; 11:2858–2864.
- [7] Nai J, Lu Y, Yu L, Wang X, Lou XWD. Formation of Ni-Fe mixed diselenide nanocages as a superior oxygen evolution electrocatalyst. Adv Mater. 2017; 29:1703870.
- [8] Guan J, Li D, Si R, Miao S, Zhang F, Li C. Synthesis and demonstration of subnanometric iridium oxide as highly efficient and robust water oxidation catalyst. ACS Catal. 2017; 7:5983–5986.

[9] Mahmood J, Li F, Jung SM, Okyay MS, Ahmad I, Kim SJ, et al. An efficient and pH-universal ruthenium-based catalyst for the hydrogen evolution reaction. Nat Nanotechnol. 2017; 12:441–446.
[10] Han L, Dong S, Wang E. Transition-metal (Co, Ni, and Fe)-based electrocatalysts for the water oxidation reaction. Adv Mater. 2016; 28:9266–9291.

- [11] Jin K, Park J, Lee J, Yang KD, Pradhan GK, Sim U, et al. Hydrated manganese(II) phosphate (Mn<sub>3</sub>(PO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·3H<sub>2</sub>O) as a water oxidation catalyst. J Am Chem Soc. 2014; 136:7435–7443.
- [12] Kim H, Park J, Park I, Jin K, Jerng SE, Kim SH, et al. Coordination tuning of cobalt phosphates towards efficient water oxidation catalyst. Nat Commun. 2015; 6:8253.
- [13] Li Y, Zhao C. Iron-doped nickel phosphate as synergistic electrocatalyst for water oxidation. Chem Mater. 2016; 28:5659–5666.
- [14] Park J, Kim H, Jin K, Lee BJ, Park YS, Kim H, et al. A new water oxidation catalyst: lithium manganese pyrophosphate with tunable Mn valency. J Am Chem Soc. 2014; 136:4201–4211.
- [15] Chang Y, Shi NE, Zhao S, Xu D, Liu C, Tang YJ, et al. Coralloid Co<sub>2</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> nanocrystals encapsulated by thin carbon shells for enhanced electrochemical water oxidation. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 2016; 8:22534–22544.
- [16] Yang L, Guo Z, Huang J, Xi Y, Gao R, Su G, et al. Vertical growth of 2D amorphous FePO<sub>4</sub> nanosheet on Ni foam: Outer and inner structural design for superior water splitting. Adv Mater. 2017; 29:1704574.
- [17] Song HJ, Yoon H, Ju B, Lee GH, Kim DW. 3D Architectures of quaternary Co-Ni-S-P/graphene hybrids as highly active and stable bifunctional electrocatalysts for overall water splitting. Adv Energy Mater. 2018; 8:1802319.
- [18] Song HJ, Sung MC, Yoon H, Ju B, Kim DW. Ultrafine α -phase molybdenum carbide decorated with platinum nanoparticles for efficient hydrogen production in acidic and alkaline media. Adv Sci. 2019; 6:1802135.
- [19] Song HJ, Kim DS, Kim JC, Hong SH, Kim DW. An approach to flexible Na-ion batteries with exceptional rate capability and long lifespan using Na<sub>2</sub>FeP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> nanoparticles on porous carbon cloth. J Mater Chem A 2017; 5:5502–5510.
- [20] Song HJ, Kim JC, Dar MA, Kim DW. Controlled phase stability of highly Na-active triclinic structure in nanoscale high-voltage Na<sub>2-2x</sub>Co<sub>1+x</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub> cathode for Na-ion batteries. J

Power Sources 2018; 377:121–127.

Song B, Li K, Yin Y, Wu T, Dang L, Cabán-Acevedo M, et al. Tuning mixed nickel iron phosphosulfide nanosheet electrocatalysts for enhanced hydrogen and oxygen evolution. ACS Catal. 2017; 7:8549–8557.

# **SUPPORTING INFORMATION**

[21]

Additional Supporting Information may be found online in the supporting information tab for this article.

# Figure captions

- **Figure 1.** (a) XRD patterns of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano. (b) Crystal structure of triclinic Na<sub>3.64</sub>Ni<sub>2.18</sub>(P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>)<sub>2</sub>. SEM images of (c) Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and (d) Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano. (e) Nitrogen adsorption-desorption isotherms of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano.
- **Figure 2.** (a) Polarization curves and (b) Tafel plots of benchmark RuO<sub>2</sub> NPs, Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron, and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano. (c) CV profiles of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-micron and Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano at various scan rate of 10-100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (d) Capacity current densities as a function of scan rate. All samples were measured in 0.1 M KOH.
- **Figure 3.** (a) XRD patterns of  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano and  $Na_2Ni_{0.5}Fe_{0.5}P_2O_7$ -nano. (b) SEM images of  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano. (c) TEM and (d) TEM-EDS elemental mapping of  $Na_2Ni_{0.75}Fe_{0.25}P_2O_7$ -nano.
- **Figure 4.** (a) Polarization curves and (b) Tafel plots of Na<sub>2</sub>NiP<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano, Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.75</sub>Fe<sub>0.25</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano, and Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Fe<sub>0.5</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano. (c) Polarization curves of Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.75</sub>Fe<sub>0.25</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano after every 1000<sup>th</sup> CV. (d) Chronopotentiometric test and polarization curves of Na<sub>2</sub>Ni<sub>0.75</sub>Fe<sub>0.25</sub>P<sub>2</sub>O<sub>7</sub>-nano after every 10 h. All samples were measured in 0.1 M KOH.

jace\_17195\_f1.tif

jace\_17195\_f2.tif

jace\_17195\_f3.tif

jace\_17195\_f4.tif