---
source: Sun 等 - 2024 - Nanoflower‐Like High‐Entropy Co‐Fe‐Cr‐Mo‐Mn Spinel for Oxygen Evolution.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.997s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:57:06.039897Z
---

www.chemeurj.org

# **Nanoflower-Like High-Entropy Co-Fe-Cr-Mo-Mn Spinel for Oxygen Evolution**

Yuhang Sun,[a] Tianmi Tang,[b] Liyuan Xiao,[b] Jingyi Han,[b] Xue Bai,[b] Mingyuan Shi,[a] Siyu Chen,[b] Jingru Sun,[b] Yuanyuan Ma,\*[a] and [Jingqi](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8498-1963) Guan\*[b]

Oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is the key anode reaction of electrolytic water. To improve the slow OER kinetics, we synthesize nanoflower-like Co Fe-Cr Mo-Mn high-entropy spinel (HES) nanosheets on nickel foam (NF) by one-step solvothermal method, which exhibit an overpotential (η10) of only 188 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , much lower than bimetallic CoFeOx/NF (233 mV), trimetallic CoFeCrOx/NF (211 mV), and tetrametallic CoFeCrMoOx/NF (200 mV). The OER overpotential decreases with the increase of the number of metals, indicating that the formation of HES has a positive effect on the improvement of electrocatalytic performance, since the synergistic effect between different metals enhances the charge transfer rate and decreases reaction barrier. In-situ Raman spectra demonstrate that the formation of γ-NiOOH on the HES surface is a crucial active species for the OER. This work demonstrates a simple and efficient synthesis method to prepare nanoflowerlike high-entropy electrocatalysts for efficient OER electrocatalysis.

## **Introduction**

With the development of science and technology, the urgent demand for energy in the current society is increasing day by day. However, the excessive exploitation of non-renewable resources results in severe environmental pollution.[1] Over the past few decades, renewable and green ecological energy has been gradually developed and put into practical application.[2] However, these energy sources are intermittent, which are limited for wide application. This issue can be effectively solved through electrochemical methods by converting electric energy to chemical energy. As a method of electrochemical hydrogen production, water electrolysis technology can efficiently produce hydrogen energy without causing pollution and damage to the environment.[3] Moreover, it is simple and easy to operate. However, the overall reaction rate of water electrolysis is constrained by the OER.[4] Due to the slow kinetics of the 4 electron transfer process of OER, high overpotential is needed. Therefore, the overpotential can be reduced and the OER efficiency can be improved only by overcoming the huge chemical energy barrier.[5] At present, Ru-based and Ir-based oxides are considered to be the best OER electrocatalysts, since they show appropriate binding energy with reaction intermediates and show low overpotentials. However, the high cost of precious metal materials and the lack on the earth greatly limit their large-scale practical application.[6] Thus, developing a nonprecious metal catalyst with excellent performance is the core of water electrolysis.[7] High-efficiency OER electrocatalysts in alkaline solutions are mainly composed of transition metals, such as NiFe,[8] CoFe,[9] NiCo,[10] NiMo,[11] NiCoFe,[12] and CoFeCr.[13] However, most binary and ternary oxyhydroxides have poor corrosion resistance and electrical conductivity, and their electrocatalytic activity is still unsatisfactory.[14]

As a rising star in the field of heterogeneous catalysis, HESs have attracted wide attention because of their unique microstructure and mechanical properties.[15] Generally speaking, HESs are basically composed of five or more elements, usually in equal or nearly equal molar half fraction (5–35 at.%).[16] The compositions in HESs will determine the binding capacity and microstructure to a certain extent, thus affecting the electrocatalytic properties. At the same time, HESs have high conformational entropy, meaning highly disordered structure and random distribution of multiple elements. The highly disordered structure makes HESs possess high density defects and coordinated unsaturated sites, which can be served as active sites for electrocatalysis.[17] The random distribution of multiple components will produce synergistic effect, promoting inter-atomic interactions, changing electronic structure and affecting the intrinsic activity.[18] Four kinds of synergistic effects exist in HESs, including high entropy mixing effect, severe lattice distortion, slow diffusion, and unique cocktail effect.[19] Therefore, high mechanical strength and excellent corrosion resistance of HESs can be achieved.[20] In addition, the entropic stabilization effect can effectively enhance the durability of HESs during the OER process.[21] Meanwhile, the homogeneous mixing of multiple elements in HESs not only produces a synergistic effect, but also leads to an increase in entropy value and a decrease in Gibbs free energy, thus improving the OER performance.[22] For instance, Wang et al. prepared FeCoNi-CuPd/CFC thin films by magnetron sputtering, exhibiting an η<sup>10</sup> of 194 mV under an alkaline condition.[23] Pan et al. synthesized

<sup>[</sup>a] *Y. Sun, M. Shi, Prof. Y. Ma Heilongjiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Surface Active Agent and Auxiliary, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Qiqihar University, Heilongjiang Province 161006, China E-mail: mayuanyuan1219@126.com*

<sup>[</sup>b] *T. Tang, L. Xiao, J. Han, X. Bai, S. Chen, J. Sun, Prof. J. Guan Institute of Physical Chemistry, College of Chemistry, Jilin University, Changchun 130021, China E-mail: guanjq@jlu.edu.cn*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202303779>*

MnFeCoNi HEAs by mechanical alloying, which exhibited a low η<sup>10</sup> of 302 mV.[24] Zhao et al. synthesized a high-entropy CoFeMnNiCu MOF, exhibiting an η<sup>10</sup> of 245 mV.[25] Tang et al. used microwave sintering to prepare CoCrFeNiMo high-entropy alloy, exhibiting an η<sup>10</sup> of 220 mV.[5] We synthesized a nanoflower-like high-entropy FeNiCrMnCoOOH/NF, exhibiting a low η<sup>10</sup> of 223 mV for the OER in 0.5 M NaCl+1.0 M KOH.[22] Therefore, the catalytic activity of HESs can be enhanced by optimizing atomic configurations or coordination between adjacent atoms.[26]

Most of the electrocatalysts are in powder form, but powdered electrocatalytic materials cannot be directly used as electrodes for experiment testing as well as practical applications, which need to be fixed on different kinds of electrodes, such as glassy carbon, carbon paper, and carbon cloth using binders.[27] However, the contact area between the electrolyte and the powdered electrocatalytic material is drastically reduced due to the presence of the binder. Additionally, the binder will lead to the blocking of the catalytically active sites, which reduces the active surface area and increases the electrical resistance, thus leading to a decrease in the electrocatalytic performance.[28] In addition, the electrocatalyst powder is easily detached from the conductive substrate at high current densities, resulting in poor stability of the electrode and a decrease in electrolysis efficiency. To avoid this issue, the use of self-supporting electrodes is an option. Self-supported electrocatalytic materials are made by growing or anchoring catalysts directly on conductive substrates through a certain process without the need of adhesives, thus avoiding the inhibitory effect on the conductive ability. At the same time, most of the self-supported substrates have a three-dimensional porous mesh structure, which ensures the electrolyte to be fully infiltrated and makes the electrochemical active sites be abundantly exposed. In addition, the nanoarrays can be *in situ* grown on the conductive substrate, which are favorable for electron transport, thus improving the electrode conductivity, preventing the catalyst from exfoliation and improving the catalyst stability.

Up to present, there are few reports about the application of HESs in OER electrocatalysis. Here, we report a nanoflowerlike CoFeCrMoMn HES with excellent electrocatalytic OER property, which was synthesized by a solvothermal method. Cobalt is an ideal OER candidate, while Fe, Cr, Mo, and Mn are individually beneficial dopants.[29] The combination can enhance the OER performance by lowering energy barrier of the potential limiting step.[30] The CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF only needs an ultralow η<sup>10</sup> of 188 mV in 1.0 M KOH, even better than the most advanced IrO2 catalysts. This work demonstrates that HESs can be applied to efficient OER electrocatalysis.

## **Experimental Section**

**Catalyst preparation**: Prior to the solvothermal preparation of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF, the nickel foam was washed in 3 M hydrochloric acid solution for 10 min to remove oxides, oils, and dust from the surface. After that, the nickel foam was washed at least three times with anhydrous ethanol and deionized water, respectively. Finally, the cleaned NF was dried in an oven at 60 °C overnight. In a typical synthesis, 0.3 mmol Co (NO3)2 ·6H2O, 0.3 mmol Fe (NO3)3 ·9H2O, 0.3 mmol Cr (NO3)3 ·6H2O, 0.3 mmol Na2MoO4 ·2H2O, 0.3 mmol MnCl2 and 2.5 mmol urea were dissolved in 20 ml of deionized water with continuous stirring. Then, the mixed solution was transferred to a stainless-steel Teflon lined autoclave, in which a piece of treated nickel foam was placed. The autoclave was heated at 120°C for 12 hours. After cooled to room temperature at the end of heating, the nickel foam was taken out, cleaned several times with deionized water and anhydrous ethanol, and then dried at 60°C overnight. For comparison, tetrametallic CoFeCrMoOx/NF without Mn elements, trimetallic CoFeCrOx/NF without Mo and Mn elements, and bimetallic CoFeOx/NF without Mo, Mn and Cr elements were prepared by a similar synthetic process.

## **Results and Discussion**

The preparation route of nanoflower-like CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF is shown in Figure 1a. In this experiment, CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF was constructed by Co2<sup>+</sup>, Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cr<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, MoO4 <sup>2</sup> , Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and urea through a solvothermal reaction. The crystalline structure of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF was determined by XRD (Figure S1). The diffraction peaks of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF corresponds well to those of FeCoCrO4 (JCPDS No. 28-1234), illustrating that it has a cubic spinel structure. The morphology was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Figure 1b-c shows the SEM images of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF with different magnifications, illustrating that CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF exhibits a three-dimensional nanoflower-like morphology. The nanoflowers are composed of interconnected and stacked patterns of ultrathin smooth nanosheets. More active sites can be exposed, which are favorable to adsorb and desorb reaction intermediates. The element mapping images show uniform distribution of Co, Fe, Cr, Mo, Mn, and O elements in the entire sample (Figure 1d–j), indicating that CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF synthesized by solvothermal method is indeed a pentametallic HES. The molar ratio of the elements Co, Fe, Cr, Mo, and Mn is about 1:1:1:1:1 (Table S1), further proving the successful synthesis of the pentametallic HES.

To investigate the catalytic OER activity of CoFeCrMoMnOx/ NF, a conventional three-electrode system was established in 1.0 M KOH. For comparison, we also measured the OER performance of the referred samples CoFeCrMoOx/NF, CoFe-CrOx/NF, and CoFeOx/NF under the same test conditions (Figure 2a). An evident reduction peak at 1.2~1.3 V is due to the reduction of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species. At 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential of bimetallic CoFeOx/NF is 233 mV. With the addition of Cr and Mo, trimetallic CoFeCrOx/NF and tetrametallic CoFeCrMoOx/NF are formed, and the overpotential continues to decrease from 233 mV to 211 mV and 200 mV, respectively. When Mn was further added, the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF becomes an excellent OER electrocatalyst, and its overpotential is only 188 mV (Figure 2b). By introducing different metals, the overpotential from bimetal to pentametal components decreases gradually, which is due to that the introduction of different metal elements regulates the electronic structure and mixing entropy, thereby improving the catalytic OER performance. To investigate OER

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic of the synthesis of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF. b–c) SEM images. d-j) Elemental mapping.

kinetics, Tafel slope was calculated. From Figure 2c, the Tafel slope of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF is 30 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , smaller than CoFeCrMoOx/NF (42 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), CoFeCrOx/NF (48 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), and CoFeOx/NF (65 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), implying that CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF has faster catalytic kinetics and higher OER activity. The introduction of multi-metals leads to lattice distortion and strong electronic interaction, which adjusts the adsorption energy of OER intermediates on the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF and accelerates the formation of O2. [31]

To better understand entropy effect, the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was evaluated (Figures S2-S5), showing that CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF (856.1 cm<sup>2</sup> ) has larger ECSA than CoFeOx/NF (83.9 cm2 ), CoFeCrOx/NF (239.8 cm<sup>2</sup> ), and CoFeCrMoOx/NF (376.8 cm2 ). With increasing metal components, the ECSA increases, illustrating evident entropy effect. To analyse the charge transfer ability, we conducted electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The semicircles in the Nyquist diagrams represent charge transfer resistance (Rct), in which the smaller the semicircles, the faster the charge transfer. As shown in Figure 2d, the Rct of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF (5.0 Ω) is lower than that of CoFeCrMoOx/NF (6.7 Ω), CoFeCrOx/NF (8.5 Ω), and CoFeOx/NF (9.6 Ω), suggesting that there is a stronger electronic interaction among the five metal elements in the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF, making it have faster electron transfer.

To further investigate the effect of high entropy on the OER energy barrier, we calculated the activation energy (Ea) according to the Arrhenius formula Ea¼ 2*:*3R ½*@* logðikÞ*=@* ð1*=*TÞ�. CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF has an OER barrier of 15.4 kJmol <sup>1</sup> , which is smaller than CoFeCrMoOx/NF (16.5 kJmol <sup>1</sup> ), CoFeCrOx/NF (21.0 kJmol <sup>1</sup> ), and CoFeOx/NF (23.6 kJmol <sup>1</sup> ) (Figure 3a and Figures S6–S9), indicating that CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF has more favourable OER dynamics. Long-term stability is a critical factor in determining the practical application of electrocatalysts. From Figure 3b, the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF demonstrates a stable performance in 24 hours. In addition, the LSV curves of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF before and after the stability test show no observable attenuation, further proving its excellent stability. The high stability of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF is due to the high mechanical strength and self-supporting structure of HES, which enhances the bonding between the active sites and the NF substrate.

The change of active species on the surface of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF was probed by *in situ* Raman spectra (Figure 4a). When the potential increases from 1.2 V to 1.5 V, the surface structure of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF changes prominently. Two distinct Raman bands present at 476 and 520 cm <sup>1</sup> , representing Eg Ni O bending vibration mode and A1g Ni O stretching vibration mode, respectively, implying the formation of γ-NiOOH phase.[32] Notably, when no potential is applied, the Raman band of γ-NiOOH disappears completely, leaving only a single Raman band centered at 476 cm <sup>1</sup> . Therefore, it is confirmed that one of the real active species of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF in the OER is γ-NiOOH formed *in situ* on the surface.

To determine the changes in the surface element composition and chemical state of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF, XPS spectra before and after OER testing were analyzed. The XPS survey spectra indicate Co, Fe, Cr, Mn, Mo, and O elements (Figure S10a). For the Co 2p spectrum before OER (Figure 4b), Co

**Figure 2.** a) LSV curves of CoFeOx/NF, CoFeCrOx/NF, CoFeCrMoOx/NF and CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF. b) Overpotential comparison at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . c) Tafel plots. d) Nyquist plots (inset: equivalent circuit diagram).

2p is composed of two main characteristic peaks: Co 2p3/2 (782.1 eV) and Co 2p1/2 (797.4 eV). After OER, two valence states of Co2<sup>+</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> can be fitted. The peaks at 785.2 eV and 799.3 eV are due to Co2<sup>+</sup>, while the peaks at 782.1 eV and 797.4 eV are identified as Co3<sup>+</sup>. [33] The content ratio of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/ Co3<sup>+</sup> is about 1/2.53, indicating that the HES surface contains a large number of CoOOH species after the OER. For the Fe 2p spectrum before OER (Figure 4c), four characteristic peaks can be observed. The peaks at 712.3 eV and 724.2 eV correspond to Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and the peaks at 715.2 eV and 728.6 eV correspond to Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. [34] After OER, the content ratio of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Fe3<sup>+</sup> is about 1/2.46, indicating that a part of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> was oxidized to Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> after OER testing. For the Cr 2p spectra, two characteristic peaks at 577.8 eV and 587.2 eV correspond to Cr<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, and two characteristic peaks at 579.3 eV and 589.1 eV belong to Cr<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> (Figure 4d).[35] The content ratio of Cr<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Cr<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> is about 1/2.34, indicating that a part of Cr<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> was oxidized to Cr<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> after OER testing. For the Mo 3d spectrum before OER (Figure 4e), Mo 3d5/ <sup>2</sup> at 232.7 eV and 229.4 eV corresponds to Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> and Mo<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively. After OER, Mo<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> is partially oxidized to Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup>. [36] The surface relative content of Mo<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>/Mo6<sup>+</sup> is estimated to be 1/2.41, indicating that Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> and Mo<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> coexist and Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> is the main component. For the Mn 2p spectra (Figure 4f), two characteristic peaks at 641.0 and

652.1 eV can be assigned to Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and two characteristic peaks at 643.7 eV and 654.1 eV correspond to Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>. [33] The content ratio of Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Mn4<sup>+</sup> is about 1/2.0, indicating that Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> was partially transformed into Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup>. The O 1s spectra are

**Figure 3.** a) Arrhenius plots of CoFeOx/NF, CoFeCrOx/NF, CoFeCrMoOx/NF and CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF. b) Chronoamperometric curve of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF (inset: LSV curves of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF before and after stability testing).

**Figure 4.** a) *In situ* Raman spectra of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF. b) Co 2p, c) Fe 2p, d) Cr 2p, e) Mo 3d, and f) Mn 2p XPS spectra.

shown in Figure S10b. After OER, three characteristic peaks at 532.8 eV, 531.4 eV, and 529.8 eV are allocated to the absorbed water, hydroxide, and metallic oxygen, respectively.[37] During the OER testing, Co2<sup>+</sup>, Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cr<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Mo4<sup>+</sup>, and Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in low valence state were partially oxidized to Co3<sup>+</sup>, Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Cr<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup>, Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Mn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> in high valence state, respectively, indicating that they are involved in the reaction. The surface morphology of the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF after the OER test was characterized by SEM. As exhibited in Figure 5, the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF still maintains the nanoflower-like morphology after the OER test,

**Figure 5.** a, b) SEM images of CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF after OER testing.

and no obvious damage is found, indicating that CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF is structurally stable.

## **Conclusions**

In conclusion, we have successfully synthesized a nanoflowerlike high-entropy CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF spinel catalyst using onestep solvothermal method. The CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF exhibited outstanding electrocatalytic OER performance with η<sup>10</sup> of 188 mV and Tafel slope of 30 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , surpassing most multicomponent electrocatalysts reported previously due to the synergistic effect between different high-entropy metal elements. The excellent catalytic performance can be attributed to three main factors. Firstly, CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF possesses a large ECSA, providing abundant active sites for the catalytic reaction. Secondly, the synergistic interaction among the five metal elements enhanced the electron transfer rate and reduced the OER energy barrier, thus boosting the electrocatalytic performance. Lastly, CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF exhibits excellent corrosion resistance, maintaining high stability under alkaline conditions. *In situ* Raman testing indicated that NiOOH is one of the main active OER species in the CoFeCrMoMnOx/NF. This study provides a feasible method for the synthesis of high-entropy electrocatalysts for energy and catalysis applications.

## *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 22075099), Natural Science Foundation of Jilin Province (No. 20220101051JC), and the Basic Science Research Project of Heilongjiang Provincial University (NO. 145109109).

## *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** High entropy oxide **·** In situ Raman **·** Nanoflower **·** Oxygen evolution reaction **·** Water splitting

- [1] a) I. Katsounaros, S. Cherevko, A. R. Zeradjanin, K. J. Mayrhofer, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201306588) Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2014**, *53*, [102–121;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201306588) b) B. You, Y. Sun, *Acc. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00002) Res.* **2018**, *51*, [1571–1580](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00002).
- [2] a) M. Z. Jacobson, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2009**, *2*, [148–173;](https://doi.org/10.1039/B809990C) b) X. Bai, J. Guan, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, [2057–2090](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)64030-5).
- [3] a) S. Anwar, F. Khan, Y. Zhang, A. Djire, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.06.191) Energy* **2021**, *46*, [32284–32317;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2021.06.191) b) T. M. Tang, Z. L. Wang, J. Q. Guan, *[Coord.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2023.215288) Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *492*, [215288.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ccr.2023.215288)
- [4] a) Q. Xu, H. Jiang, H. Zhang, Y. Hu, C. Li, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *242*, [60–66;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.09.064) b) A. Saad, D. Liu, Y. Wu, Z. Song, Y. Li, T. Najam, K. Zong, P. Tsiakaras, X. Cai, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *298*, [120529](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120529).
- [5] J. Tang, J. L. Xu, Z. G. Ye, X. B. Li, J. M. Luo, *J. Mater. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2020.10.079)* **2021**, *79*, [171–177](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2020.10.079).
- [6] a) Z. Gao, L. Xiao, X. Su, X. He, Y. Yu, X. Huang, F. Luo, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.05.023) Chem.* **2021**, *53*, [358–363;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.05.023) b) Q. Gao, C. Q. Huang, Y. M. Ju, M. R. Gao, J. W. Liu, D. An, C. H. Cui, Y. R. Zheng, W. X. Li, S. H. Yu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201701998) Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2017**, *56*, [7769–7773;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201701998) c) Y. Shi, Z. Lyu, M. Zhao, R. Chen, Q. N. Nguyen, Y. Xia, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, [649–735](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00454).
- [7] a) X. Wang, F. Li, W. Li, W. Gao, Y. Tang, R. Li, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA03167J) Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, [17982–17989;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA03167J) b) X. M. Xu, C. Su, W. Zhou, Y. L. Zhu, Y. B. Chen, Z. P. Shao, *Adv. Sci.* **2016**, *3*, 1500187.
- [8] Y. Wang, S. Tao, H. Lin, G. Wang, K. Zhao, R. Cai, K. Tao, C. Zhang, M. Sun, J. Hu, B. Huang, S. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *81*, [105606.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105606)
- [9] a) Q. Zhang, M. Sun, J. Zhu, S. Yang, L. Chen, X. Yang, P. Wang, K. Li, F. Xue, Y. Lu, J. Zhang, P. Zhao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *432*, [134275;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.134275) b) T. Tang, Z. Duan, D. Baimanov, X. Bai, X. Liu, L. Wang, Z. Wang, J. Guan, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *16*, 2218–2223; c) X. Bai, Z. Duan, B. Nan, L. Wang, T. Tang, J. Guan, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, [2240–2248.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)64033-0)
- [10] H. H. Ning, G. Q. Li, Y. Chen, K. K. Zhang, Z. Gong, R. F. Nie, W. Hu, Q. H. Xia, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, [1957–1968](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b13290).
- [11] S. Jeong, K. Hu, T. Ohto, Y. Nagata, H. Masuda, J.-i. Fujita, Y. Ito, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 792–799.
- [12] J. Lee, H. Jung, Y. S. Park, N. Kwon, S. Woo, N. C. S. Selvam, G. S. Han, H. S. Jung, P. J. Yoo, S. M. Choi, J. W. Han, B. Lim, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120246) B* **2021**, *294*, [120246](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120246).
- [13] L. Wen, X. Zhang, J. Liu, X. Li, C. Xing, X. Lyu, W. Cai, W. Wang, Y. Li, *Small* **2019**, *15*, e1902373.
- [14] a) R. Yang, Y. Zhou, Y. Xing, D. Li, D. Jiang, M. Chen, W. Shi, S. Yuan, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *253*, [131–139](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2019.04.054); b) S. Liu, J. Zhu, M. Sun, Z. Ma, K. Hu,

- T. Nakajima, X. Liu, P. Schmuki, L. Wang, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA12768B) Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [2490–2497](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA12768B).
- [15] H. Wang, R. Wei, X. Li, X. Ma, X. Hao, G. Guan, *J. Mater. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2020.06.045)* **2021**, *68*, [191–198.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmst.2020.06.045)
- [16] a) F. Okejiri, Z. Zhang, J. Liu, M. Liu, S. Yang, S. Dai, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201902705)* **2020**, *13*, [111–115;](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201902705) b) E. P. George, D. Raabe, R. O. Ritchie, *Nat. Rev. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41578-019-0121-4)* **2019**, *4*, [515–534;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41578-019-0121-4) c) T. A. A. Batchelor, J. K. Pedersen, S. H. Winther, I. E. Castelli, K. W. Jacobsen, J. Rossmeisl, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, [834–845](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.12.015); d) L. Xiao, Z. Wang, J. Guan, *Chem. Sci.* **2023**, *14*, [12850–12868.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3SC04962K)
- [17] Y. Zhang, T. Lu, Y. Ye, W. Dai, Y. a Zhu, Y. Pan, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c05916)* **2020**, *12*, [32548–32555](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c05916).
- [18] B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. García-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, F. P. García de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaf1525)* **2016**, *352*, [333–337.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaf1525)
- [19] Q. Ding, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, X. Fu, D. Chen, S. Chen, L. Gu, F. Wei, H. Bei, Y. Gao, M. Wen, J. Li, Z. Zhang, T. Zhu, R. O. Ritchie, Q. Yu, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1617-1)* **2019**, *574*, [223–227.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1617-1)
- [20] Z. Xu, H. Zhang, X. Du, Y. He, H. Luo, G. Song, L. Mao, T. Zhou, L. Wang, *Corros. Sci.* **2020**, *177*, [108954](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.corsci.2020.108954).
- [21] H. Chen, J. Fu, P. Zhang, H. Peng, C. W. Abney, K. Jie, X. Liu, M. Chi, S. Dai, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, [11129–11133.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA01772G)
- [22] M. Shi, T. Tang, L. Xiao, J. Han, X. Bai, Y. Sun, S. Chen, J. Sun, Y. Ma, J. Guan, *Chem. Commun.* **2023**, *59*, [11971–11974.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC04023B)
- [23] S. Wang, B. Xu, W. Huo, H. Feng, X. Zhou, F. Fang, Z. Xie, J. K. Shang, J. Jiang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *313*, [121472.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121472)
- [24] W. Dai, T. Lu, Y. Pan, *J. Power Sources* **2019**, *430*, [104–111](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2019.05.030).
- [25] X. Zhao, Z. Xue, W. Chen, X. Bai, R. Shi, T. Mu, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA09975A) Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, [26238–26242.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA09975A)

- [26] T. Löffler, H. Meyer, A. Savan, P. Wilde, A. Garzón Manjón, Y.-T. Chen, E. Ventosa, C. Scheu, A. Ludwig, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1802269.
- [27] a) Q. Wang, Y. Zhang, W. Ni, Y. Zhang, T. Sun, J. Zhang, J. Duan, Y. Gao, S. Zhang, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.03.016) Chem.* **2020**, *50*, 44–51; b) Y. Wang, S. Wang, R. Li, H. Li, Z. Guo, B. Chen, R. Li, Q. Yao, X. Zhang, H. Chen, Y. Li, K. Qu, Y. Zheng, *Carbon* **2020**, *162*, [586–594.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2020.03.011)
- [28] T. Wu, Y. Dang, J. He, T. Li, G. Qu, Y. Gao, F. Tan, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **[2019](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.07.156)**, *494*, [179–186.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.07.156)
- [29] H. Wu, J. Zhang, Q. Lu, Y. Li, R. Jiang, Y. Liu, X. Zheng, N. Zhao, J. Li, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, [38423–38432.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.3c05781)
- [30] L. Zhang, W. Cai, N. Bao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2100745.
- [31] X. Pang, H. Geng, S. Dong, B. An, S. Zheng, B. Wang, *Small* **2022**, *19*, 2205525.
- [32] Z. Chen, L. Cai, X. Yang, C. Kronawitter, L. Guo, S. Shen, B. E. Koel, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03191) Catal.* **2018**, *8*, [1238–1247.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03191)
- [33] B. J. Tan, K. J. Klabunde, P. M. A. Sherwood, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2002**, *113*, 855–861.
- [34] B. J. Tan, K. J. Klabunde, P. M. A. Sherwood, *Chem. Mater.* **2002**, *2*, 186– 191.
- [35] E. Desimoni, C. Malitesta, P. G. Zambonin, J. C. Rivière, *Surf. [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1002/sia.740130210) Anal.* **1988**, *13*, [173–179](https://doi.org/10.1002/sia.740130210).
- [36] B. Brox, I. Olefjord, *Surf. [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1002/sia.740130103) Anal.* **1988**, *13*, 3–6.
- [37] C. Dong, X. Yuan, X. Wang, X. Liu, W. Dong, R. Wang, Y. Duan, F. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, [11292–11298.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA04052G)

Manuscript received: November 14, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: December 14, 2023 Version of record online: January 31, 2024