---
source: Suzuki 等 - 2018 - Highly Enhanced Electrochemical Water Oxidation Reaction over Hyperfine β-FeOOH(Cl)Ni Nanorod Elect.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.840s
generated: 2026-01-09T07:58:28.412602Z
---

Advance Publication Cover Page

# **Highly enhanced electrochemical water oxidation reaction over hyperfine β-FeOOH(Cl):Ni nanorod electrode by modification with amorphous Ni(OH)2**

Tomiko M. Suzuki,\* Takamasa Nonaka, Kosuke Kitazumi, Naoko Takahashi, Satoru Kosaka, Yoriko Matsuoka, Keita Sekizawa, Akihiko Suda, and Takeshi Morikawa\*

> Advance Publication on the web March 2, 2018 doi:10.1246/bcsj.20170426

### © 2018 The Chemical Society of Japan

Advance Publication is a service for online publication of manuscripts prior to releasing fully edited, printed versions. Entire manuscripts and a portion of the graphical abstract can be released on the web as soon as the submission is accepted. Note that the Chemical Society of Japan bears no responsibility for issues resulting from the use of information taken from unedited, Advance Publication manuscripts.

# Highly enhanced electrochemical water oxidation reaction over hyperfine β-FeOOH(Cl):Ni nanorod electrode by modification with amorphous Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>

Tomiko M. Suzuki,\* Takamasa Nonaka, Kosuke Kitazumi, Naoko Takahashi, Satoru Kosaka, Yoriko Matsuoka, Keita Sekizawa, Akihiko Suda, and Takeshi Morikawa\*

Toyota Central R&D Labs., Inc., 41-1, Yokomichi, Nagakute, Aichi 480-1192

E-mail: tomiko@mosk.tytlabs.co.jp (T. M. Suzuki), morikawa@mosk.tytlabs.co.jp (T. Morikawa)

Tomiko M. Suzuki

Tomiko M. Suzuki received her bachelor and master degrees from Nara Women's University. She joined Toyota CRDL in 1992 and received Ph.D. Degree from Tokyo Institute of Technology in 2009. Currently, she is a senior researcher of Morikawa Senior Fellow laboratory in Toyota CRDL. She has been working on development of inorganic catalyst materials for artificial photosynthesis.

Takeshi Morikawa

Takeshi Morikawa received his bachelor and master degrees from Nagoya University. He joined Toyota CRDL in 1989 and received Ph.D. Degree in 2005. He has been working on development of sensors for automotive controls, magnetic materials, semiconductor photocatalyst, and CO<sub>2</sub> recycling systems by artificial photosynthesis. He is currently a manager of Morikawa Senior Fellow laboratory in Toyota CRDL.

#### Abstract

A highly crystalline, 10 nm-sized red rust water oxidation catalyst composed of pure β-phase FeOOH(Cl) nanorods (ca. 3 × 13 nm) doped with Ni ions (β-FeOOH(Cl):Ni) and surface-modified with amorphous Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, at a Ni to Fe ratio of 22 at.%) was synthesized by a facile one-pot process at room temperature. The overpotential during the electrochemical oxygen evolution reaction (OER) over the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> stacked nanorod anodes was 170 mV, and an OER current of 10 mA/cm<sup>2</sup> was obtained at an overpotential of 430 mV in a 0.1 M KOH solution. X-ray absorption fine structure analysis, Mössbauer spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, field emission scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction and impedance spectroscopy suggested that surface modification with the a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> lowered the OER overpotential of β-FeOOH(Cl):Ni, resulting in the very high current density at low potential compared with Fe-rich oxide and oxyhydroxide electrodes reported previously. Mössbauer spectroscopy suggested interaction between Fe and Ni species, which may be crucial evidence for the enhanced activity in the Fe-rich OER system.

#### 1. Introduction

The catalytic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), during which electrons are extracted from water molecules, is the key to artificial photosynthetic process for the future sustainable synthesis of useful chemicals. In this same regard, hydrogen generation by water splitting and the production of organic substances from  $\rm CO_2$  have become important research topics. Currently, it is widely accepted that the OER is a major bottleneck in the water splitting process, so oxide catalysts have been extensively studied, and iridium, cobalt, ruthenium, and nickel-based materials have been reported to be efficient for the OER.  $^{1-17}$  Fe-based catalysts, based on the fourth most

earth-abundant element, are also attractive, but are known to suffer from low OER activity. It is believed that this poor performance may be due to limited electrical conductivity and non-ideal electronic structures near the surfaces of these catalysts. 18 Demonstrations of the OER in the presence of  $\alpha$ -,  $\gamma$ and amorphous FeOOH have been reported, 19-26 and enhancement of the activities of these materials upon adding additional metals has been discussed. As examples, Choi et al. demonstrated the photo-oxidation of water using BiVO<sub>4</sub> coated with γ-FeOOH, <sup>23,24</sup> while Mullins et al. reported the photo-oxidation of water over SiGe-jn in conjunction with amorphous FeOOH.<sup>25</sup> Mullins also determined that the reaction overpotential could be reduced by doping with Ni (5-20%).<sup>26</sup> In contrast, there have been few reports regarding the use of crystalline β-FeOOH(Cl) (akaganeite) systems. 27-30 β-FeOOH(Cl) (red rust generally seen at seasides) is an iron oxyhydroxide polymorph of FeOOH with 4 double chains consisting of FeO<sub>3</sub>(OH)<sub>3</sub> octahedra, and tends to form a unique nanoporous structure with  $0.5 \times 0.5$  nm tunnels along the [010] direction (Figure S1, ESI). The tunnel sites are partly occupied by Cl ions and these negative charges are balanced by adding H+, which forms hydroxyl (OH-) groups with oxygen. The limited research regarding this material is presumably due to the difficulty in synthesizing experimental samples because of the very slow rate of formation (for example, 1 week at 70 °C) of the unique monoclinic crystals containing Cl<sup>-</sup> ions in tunnels composed of corner-shared bare O atom in the Fe-O octahedra.<sup>27</sup> However, in contrast to previous reports. Suzuki et al. have demonstrated the facile synthesis of highly crystallized hyperfine β-FeOOH(Cl) (herein, β-FeOOH) nanorods with diameters of 3 nm and lengths of 15 nm. This synthesis employs a combination of spontaneous peptization and Ostwald ripening with the aid of amines to form colloidal solutions of the nanocrystals at room temperature.<sup>31</sup> In addition, the pure β-FeOOH phase obtained by this one-pot, rapid (several hours), room temperature synthesis exhibits OER activity in an order of magnitude greater than those of previous β-FeOOH(Cl) catalysts31. The OER current of this highly crystalline β-FeOOH is also greater than those of α-FeOOH, γ-FeOOH, and amorphous FeOOH. Interestingly, the versatility of this synthetic process also enables doping with a wide variety of transition metals. Doping with Ni2+ (β-FeOOH:Ni, Ni/Fe=1.2 at.%) both shifts the OER threshold potential from 1.75 V to 1.64 V (vs. RHE) at 3.5 mA/cm2 in an alkaline electrolyte. This value is comparable to that of a conventional IrOx colloidal nanoparticle OER catalyst that has demonstrated a 4.6% solar-to-chemical conversion efficiency during the CO2 reduction reaction.<sup>32</sup> These hyperfine β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods have a unique structure compared to previously reported Ni:FeOOH with an amorphous long-range matrix and small embedded domains resembling β-FeOOH phases which do not generate obvious lattice fringes in high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) images.<sup>28</sup> These results demonstrate the possibility of highly active OER catalysts based on the earth-abundant element Fe. This scenario has been previously suggested by Koper and Boettcher.9, 19 and by Carter's work on doped hematite, which predicted that Ni or Co doping of hematite surfaces would provide the most thermodynamically favored reaction pathway for the OER.33 Mullin's work on Ni-doped amorphous FeOOH26 has also supplied helpful insights. Hence, it appears that the OER of the β-FeOOH:Ni could be improved by further modification. The demonstration of increased reaction currents due to reductions in the overpotential during the OER are important to future practical applications involving simplified systems which operate with low energy inputs.

In the present work, we added Ni species to β-FeOOH over a wide range of concentrations (Ni/Fe = 0 - 33 at.%) to form β-FeOOH:Ni in the facile one-pot synthesis. This addition generated highly crystalline, hyperfine β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods (⌀ 3 × 13 nm, assuming the nanorods are cylindrical) surface-modified with amorphous Ni hydroxide (β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2). Ni was doped in β-FeOOH lattice according to the previous literature, and excess Ni species formed amorphous Ni hydride on the β-FeOOH:Ni nanorod surfaces during the nanorod formation via self-organization. A stacked electrode composed of the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 nanorods deposited on carbon paper exhibited an OER overpotential of 170 mV and a current of 10 mA/cm2 at an overpotential of 430 mV (even without subtraction of iR drop), representing the very high OER rate compared to Fe-rich oxide or oxyhydroxide systems reported to date. Experimental analyses such as Mössbauer spectroscopy suggested electronic interaction between Fe and Ni species, which could be crucial evidence for the enhanced activity in the Fe-rich OER system.

## **2. Experimental**

**2.1 Preparation of the Ni-modified β-FeOOH colloidal solutions.** All starting materials were used as-received. FeCl3•6H2O (99%), Ni(NO3)2•6H2O (99.9%),ethylenediamine and a 1 M aqueous KOH solution were purchased from Wako Pure Chemical Industries (Japan). Each Ni-doped β-FeOOH colloidal solution was prepared by combining 500 mL of an aqueous solution containing FeCl3•6H2O (0.1 M as Fe3+) and the desired amount of Ni(NO3)2•6H2O along with ethylenediamine, followed by pH adjustment to the range of 2.0-2.4 and agitation with a magnetic stirrer at room temperature. After 30 min of continuous stirring, the solution was aged overnight at room temperature.

**2.2 Preparation of the Ni-modified β-FeOOH nanorods on carbon paper (CP).** Ni-modified β-FeOOH nanorods on CP were prepared by depositing 1000 μL of a given colloidal solution together with a small amount of ethanol on the CP (TORAY, TGP-H-060, 1.8 × 2.2 cm), followed by drying at room temperature for 6 h and further drying under vacuum at 40 ºC. The samples were subsequently washed with water and a 0.1 M aqueous KOH solution and then dried. In this manner, a 1.0 mg quantity of the metal-doped β-FeOOH nanorods was loaded on each 1 cm2 of the CP.

**2.3 Characterization.** Measurements of the particle size distributions of the colloidal solutions were conducted using a dynamic light scattering particle size analyzer (Nikkiso, Nanotrac UPA250EX, effective range: 0.8‒6000 nm). Dark field STEM (DF-STEM) and TEM images were obtained using a JEM-2100F TEM (Joel) at an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. The average particle sizes in test samples were calculated from measurements of 90 particles in an STEM image. SEM images were obtained using S-4300 (Hitachi) and S-5500 microscopes (Hitachi). The dopant concentrations in the Ni-modified β-FeOOH specimens was determined by ICP analysis (Rigaku, CIROS 120 EOP). The crystal structures of the samples were assessed by XRD (Rigaku, Ultima IV) using Cu Kα radiation at 40 kV and 40 mA, while the chemical states and concentrations of Ni and Fe were determined by XPS (Quantera SXM, ULVAC-PHI) using monochromated Al Kα radiation. All spectra were corrected relative to the C 1s peak at 285 eV. The chemical states of Fe and Ni were evaluated by XAFS spectroscopy using the Quick-XAFS technique.<sup>34</sup> Fe and Ni K-edge XANES data were acquired in the transmission mode using the BL33XU beamline at SPring-8 (Hyogo, Japan). 57Fe Mössbauer spectroscopy with a 57Co source was conducted with a conventional constant-acceleration method at room temperature in order to confirm the isomer shifts and quadrupole splitting of the compounds.

**2.4 Electrochemical measurements of oxygen evolution during water oxidation.** The electrochemical characteristics of nanorod samples on CP (1 × 1 cm) electrodes were investigated in an aqueous 0.1 M KOH solution (pH 12.8) with a three-electrode configuration using a Ag/AgCl reference electrode and a Pt wire counter electrode. Electrochemical O2 and H2 evolution during water splitting by the same electrodes were examined using a Pyrex sealed glass reactor (total volume: 115.5 ml) in an aqueous 0.1 M KOH solution (60 ml). A three-electrode configuration incorporating a Ag/AgCl reference electrode and a Pt wire counter electrode was employed with an applied potential of +1.56 V (*vs.* RHE). The amounts of O2 and H2 generated with the above electrodes as the anode and a Pt cathode were determined using a gas chromatograph equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (GC-2014, Shimadzu). 31,32

#### **3. Results and Discussion**

**3.1 Synthesis and characterization of Ni modified β-FeOOH nanorods.** Synthesis of the present materials is based on a modification of a previously-reported process incorporating amines in aqueous solution containing metal salt to promote Ostwald ripening.<sup>31</sup> As shown in Figure 1, FeCl3•6H2O, Ni(NO3)2•6H2O and ethylenediamine were added in pure water and adjusted to the appropriate pH, which generated transparent brown-colored aqueous colloidal dispersion after storing for 6-24 hours stirring at room temperature. Electrodes were constructed by depositing the aqueous colloidal solution of nanorods on carbon paper (CP), followed by washing with an aqueous solution of KOH and then with distilled water to remove any residual species. The uncertainty in the nanorod

**Figure 1.** Schematic illustration of the one-pot synthesis process of 10nm-sized highly crystalline β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods colloidal solution and preparation of Ni-modified β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods/CP electrode.

loading amount on the electrodes was confirmed to be within ±4%, and five to eight specimens were tested under each set of experimental conditions to ensure reproducibility. The average thicknesses of the β-FeOOH:Ni and β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 layers on the CP were determined to range from 100 to 200 nm based on cross-sectional scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images. The concentrations of Fe and Ni in the electrodes were evaluated by inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectroscopy.

In our previous study, we confirmed that the Ni in β-FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%) deposited on CP (β-FeOOH:Ni/CP) specimens synthesized by the method described above was doped into the β-FeOOH lattice, based on analyses using X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS), Mössbauer spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD) and X-ray photoemission spectroscopy (XPS).<sup>31</sup> Figures 2 (a), (b) and (c) presents the Fe 2p3, Ni 2p and Cl 2p XPS data acquired from β-FeOOH:Ni and β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 on CP specimens with Ni/Fe ratios of 1.2, 18, 22 and 33 at.%. These spectra indicate that the Fe and Ni were present as Fe3+ and Ni2+, and that a certain amount of Cl<sup>−</sup> was contained in the monoclinic crystal structure. Judging from previous reports, the peaks in the range of 711.2-711.9 eV in the Fe 2p3 spectra and at 855.9 eV in the Ni 2p are assignable to FeOOH and Ni(OH)2, respectively.35,36 The XRD pattern of the nanorod stacks exhibits peaks assignable to β-FeOOH and no other peaks are evident, indicating that the Ni species were amorphous (Figure 3). The XRD pattern of nanorod stacks coated on a silica substrate, acquired to reduce the broad C peaks between 2θ values of 30 to 60°, was also consistent with this suggested composition (Figure S2). The two doublet peak fitting (Fit 1 and Fit 2) of room temperature 57Fe Mössbauer spectra suggested that the pure β-FeOOH hyperfine structure (containing almost no amorphous, α or γ-phases)37 remained unchanged upon the addition of Ni up to 22 at.% (Figures 2(d), (e), and (f)). As the amount of Ni increased, the relative absorption decreased from 7 - 8% to 2%

**Figure 2.** (a) Fe 2p3, (b) Ni 2p, and (c) Cl 2p XPS spectra for β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods synthesized in a one-pot process with different total Ni concentrations, in the form of electrodes deposited on CP. Room temperature 57Fe Mössbauer spectra of (d) β-FeOOH nanorods/CP, (e) β-FeOOH:Ni (22 at.%) nanorods/CP, and (f) β-FeOOH:Ni (26 at.%) nanorods/CP. Percentages show the Ni/Fe ratios and square symbols represent experimental data while solid lines show the applied fits<sup>37</sup> of β-FeOOH phase.

or less, which is due to a decrease in the amount of Fe or a decrease in Debye temperature. With increasing Ni contents, the pure β-FeOOH hyperfine structure maintained, judging from almost unchanged value of isomer shift (IS). In contrast, local structure around the Fe atoms was disturbed, which was suggested by increased quadrupole splitting (QS) and full width at half maximum (FWHM) (Table S1). The QS reflects electronic and magnetic state in the neighborhood of the 57Fe nucleus in the sample, which was not obvious in β-FeOOH:Ni (Ni/Fe =1.2at.%).<sup>31</sup> Hence these results strongly suggested magnetic interaction between Fe in the β-FeOOH:Ni and Ni species in a-Ni(OH)2 on the surface, which is originated from certain electronic interaction between Fe and Ni. This interaction in the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 at 22 − 33 %-Ni differs from that in the doped β-FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%)/CP. XANES and *k* 3 -weighted FT-EXAFS K-edge analysis of samples with various Ni concentrations also suggest that the present β-FeOOH samples did not contain α-Fe2O3, α-FeOOH or γ-FeOOH (Figures 4(a) and (b)). In addition, the β-FeOOH structure was essentially unchanged regardless of doping at Ni concentrations ranging from 0 to 33 at.%. However, it is possible that the local structure around the Fe atoms might have been disturbed with increasing Ni amounts. These structural components are different from previous reports with larger β-FeOOH (100-200 nanometers) combined with N3+ species.<sup>38</sup>

The XANES and *k* 3 -weighted FT-EXAFS Ni K-edge data confirmed that the Ni atoms were divalent, so the levels of trivalent Ni compounds such as NiOOH and Ni2O3 were evidently negligible (Figures 4(c) and (d)). It is worth noting that the radial distribution function obtained via Fourier transformation demonstrated that the structures of the Ni species in the 22 and 33 at.% samples were close to that of crystalline Ni(OH)2, based on the observation that the positions and heights of the second nearest neighbor peaks decreased

**Figure 3.** The XRD patterns of β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods synthesized in a one-pot process with different total Ni concentrations, in the form of electrodes deposited on CP.

with increasing Ni content. This result suggests increased long-range disorder compared with crystalline Ni(OH)2. Based on these structural analyses, it is most likely that a certain proportion of the Ni atoms in the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 (Ni/Fe 22 and 33 at.%)/CP was doped into the β-FeOOH crystal (approximately 1 at.% based on previous literature), while the remainders of Ni species (around 21 and 32 at.%) of the two samples were on the surfaces of the nanorods. The

**Figure 4.** (a) XANES and (b) *k* 3 -weighted FT-EXAFS Fe K-edge spectra, and (c) XANES and (d) *k* 3 -weighted FT-EXAFS Ni K-edge spectra of various β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods /CP samples with different total Ni concentrations.

surface Ni species appear to have been amorphous Ni hydroxide judging from the XAFS, XRD and XPS data, and interacted with the bulk β-FeOOH:Ni inside, as determined by the Mössbauer spectroscopy results. The surface compositions (atomic ratio of Ni/Fe) of β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 examined by XPS were compared with ICP data (Table S2). These Ni/Fe ratios estimated by ICP and XPS correspond approximately to the information of bulk (total amount) and surface (within 2-3 nm in depth), respectively. Tendencies of the Ni/Fe ratios by bulk (ICP) and surface (XPS) were consistent with increasing Ni additive amount. The Ni/Fe ratios of Ni 1.2 at.% sample (β-FeOOH:Ni) were measured to be almost same (0.012 and 0.014) between ICP and XPS, while XPS (surface) Ni/Fe values were 1.6−2.0 times higher than those of ICP (bulk) for samples with 18, 22 and 33 at.% Ni. Therefore, it was speculated that a-Ni(OH)2 was on the surface of β-FeOOH:Ni nanorods for samples with Ni contents of 18, 22 and 33 at.%.

The aqueous colloidal β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 (Ni/Fe 22 at.%) suspension was very clear and brown in color, with the β-FeOOH crystals having a mean volume-based diameter of 10.5 nm. These suspensions showed no evidence of precipitation even after one month of storage at room temperature (Figure S3). The nanorods were very fine, with an average diameter of 3 nm and average length of 13 nm, based on the examination of 90 nanorods in a scanning tunneling electron microscopy (STEM) image (Figure S4). This size is slightly smaller than that of a previous β-FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%) sample, suggesting that the use of a higher concentration of Ni(NO3)2 in the one-pot synthesis inhibits the crystal growth of the β-FeOOH nanorods. Field emission SEM (FE-SEM) images show that the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 (22 at.%) was deposited on the CP in a folded state to form a stacked film with a thickness ranging from 100 to 200 nm (Figures 5(a) and (b)).

Lower magnification SEM images indicate that the nanorods adhered to the micron-sized carbon fibers of which the CP was composed (Figure S5), while SEM-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) detected Fe, O, Ni and Cl in the electrode (Figure S6). Accordingly, the proposed structure of the β-FeOOH:Ni (22 at.%)/CP specimen is as shown in the simplified schematic illustration in Figure 5(c). At this moment, it is very difficult clarify precise nanorod shape and crystalline orientation, and therefore we represented the nanorods using a cylinder shape in this figure. Here, amorphous Ni(OH)2 (a-Ni(OH)2) binds to the grain boundaries of the β-FeOOH:Ni nanorod film on the CP. However, considering the hyperfine β-FeOOH as confirmed by TEM diffraction patterns and the Ni/Fe ratio, it is highly likely that the majority of the β-FeOOH nanorod surfaces were coated with a-Ni(OH)2. It was important that there were interactions between the a-Ni(OH)2 and Fe atoms in the bulk β-FeOOH, as strongly suggested by the Mössbauer spectroscopy data.

As noted, depending on the rate of crystal formation, it can be difficult to incorporate 22 at.% Ni into the β-FeOOH lattice because of the mismatched ionic radii of Fe and Ni, so a certain amount of Ni species was precipitated on the surface of the nanorods as amorphous Ni oxyhydroxide. The Nyquist diagrams obtained by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) are shown in Figure 6(a). Since the impedance spectrum for Fe2O3 is determined by many factors, such as the resistance and capacitance of both the bulk and surface states, it is difficult to determine the origins of the resistance and capacitance via the fitting of only one semicircle.<sup>39</sup> However, we can compare the total resistance of the electrodes because

**Figure 5.** (a) Top view and (b) cross-sectional view FE-SEM images of a β-FeOOH:Ni (22 at.%)/CP stacked electrode, and (c) a simplified schematic image of a β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2/CP electrode deposited on carbon paper compared with an undoped b-FeOOH nanorod stack (inset). The shape of nanorods are represented as cylinders for illustration.

the radius of the arc relative to the Z′ axis corresponds to the total resistance. The radius of the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 (22 at.%)/CP sample was smaller than those of the undoped and 1.2 at.% Ni electrodes.

Alexandrov and Rosso have suggested that the room temperature charge transport of these materials is dominated by small-polaron hopping, in which the polarons have lower mobilities and larger effective masses than the original electrons. Therefore, the electrical conductivity of these iron oxyhydroxides will be very low (10<sup>−</sup><sup>8</sup> –10<sup>−</sup><sup>9</sup> Ω s−<sup>1</sup> ).<sup>40</sup> Based on these considerations, we believe that the total resistance in the electrode was decreased by the presence of the more highly conductive amorphous Ni(OH)2 on the β-FeOOH:Ni nanorod surfaces. The Ni species formed an intermediate layer that mediated the performance of the nanorods in the film, as shown in Figure 5(c). It is quite probable that the amorphous Ni(OH)2 not only lowered the impedance but modified an electronic interaction between the β-FeOOH:Ni and the a-Ni(OH)2 as was suggested Mössbauer spectroscopy, which lead to enhancement of the OER. The positive effects of interactions between Fe and Ni species have been discussed with regard to Ni-based systems containing Fe species in NiOOH based on research by Bell and others as will be explained later. <sup>10</sup> A smaller hemisphere at Z′ > 10 Ω was observed in the case of the β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 (22 at.%)/CP, indicating lower diffusion impedance originating from diffusion in the active electrode material and the electrolyte. 27

The lowering of the –Z′/Z′ slope with increasing Ni concentration could be associated with a gradual change in particle size, according to a previous theoretical analysis of the size and shape distributions in nanoparticle electrodes.41 These two factors, a small hemisphere and a gradual variation in particle size compared with those of the undoped and 1.2 at.% β-FeOOH, are thought to have resulted from the presence of surface Ni hydride species on the β-FeOOH and the suppression of the formation of uniform nanorod sizes due to a higher concentration of Ni ions in the synthesis solution, respectively.

**Figure 6.** (a) Nyquist plots from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy for β-FeOOH/CP (black circles), β-FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%)/CP (blue circles) and β-FeOOH:Ni (22 at.%)/CP (red circles), as obtained at +1.47 V (vs. RHE) with frequencies varying from 100 kHz to 0.1 Hz. (b) Current-potential characteristics of β-FeOOH:Ni nanorod/CP electrodes with different amounts of Ni, acquired in a 0.1 M aqueous KOH solution (pH 12.8), and (c) the potential required to achieve a current density (*j*) of 5.0 mA cm-2 for β-FeOOH:Ni with different total Ni concentrations. Error bars indicate the standard deviations obtained from multiple (4-8) electrodes. (d) Times courses of the currents (at +1.56 V vs. RHE) of undoped and Ni-doped β-FeOOH with varying Ni concentrations (1.2, 11 and 22 at.%)/CP electrodes, acquired in a 0.1 M aqueous KOH solution (pH 12.8).

# **3.2 Electrocatalytic OER of β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2**

**nanorods.** Figure 6(b) presents typical cyclic voltammograms (CVs) obtained from β-FeOOH/CP doped with Ni over the range from 0 to 33 at.%, as acquired in 0.1 M KOH. The overpotential during the OER gradually decreased with increasing Ni concentration, eventually plateauing in the range of 11 to 33 at.% Ni. Figure 6(c) summarizes the overpotential values required to generate a current density (*j*) of 5.0 mA/cm2 as a function of the Ni concentration. Here, the E5.0 *j* value was selected according to a previous report as sufficient for the photoreduction of CO2 to formate with a solar-to-chemical conversion efficiency of 6%.<sup>32</sup> The potential required to reach 5.0 mA/cm2 was determined to be +1.72 V (vs. RHE) for β-FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%) and +1.60 V (vs. RHE) for β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 (22 at.%). The rapid decrease in the overpotential with increasing Ni levels over the range of 0 to 3 at.% is explained primarily by the doping of Ni into the β-FeOOH lattice, as discussed in previous publications.31 The gradual decrease from 3 to 33 at.% Ni is possibly the result of the formation of a-Ni(OH)2 species on the nanorod surfaces. The E5.0 *j* decrease over the range of 0 to 11 at.% is mainly due to lowered overpotential as discussed for Figure 6(b). Effect of doping could dominate within the region of 0 to 1 at.%, while combination of the doping effect and surface a-Ni(OH)2 could contribute the OER over the range of 0 to 11 at.%. Further increase of a-Ni(OH)2 species reduce the impedance of the stacked film, as suggested by the Nyquist plot and the Mössbauer spectroscopy data in Figures 2(d), (e), (f) and 6(a), respectively. The reason for the lowest E5.0 *j* within the region of Ni/Fe 22-33 % is determined by both reduced overpotential of the material and reduced impedance of the stacked film. Fe would be the OER active site as will be discussed later, and therefore the plateau observed within the range of 22 to 33 at.% Ni could be determined by a tradeoff between the lowered overpotential and surface coverage of a-Ni(OH)2. The time courses of the reaction current measured at +1.56 V (vs. RHE) in Figure 6(d) confirm that doping with 1.2 at.% Ni increased the OER current density to 1.2 mA/cm2 , as has been previously reported. under these alkaline electrolyte conditions. In contrast, the formation of the Ni hydride species on the surfaces further increased the OER current to 2.2 and 3.9 mA/cm2 in the case of the β-FeOOH:Ni/ a-Ni(OH)2 (11 at.%) and β-FeOOH:Ni/ a-Ni(OH)2 (22 at.%), respectively. In these trials, the sudden increases in current at 290, 805 and 1080 s are attributed to the release of oxygen bubbles from the electrode surface. These β-FeOOH:Ni/Ni(OH)2 electrodes demonstrate stable OER currents.

The activities of various Fe-based oxide and oxyhydroxide OER anodes are compared in Figure 7. The Tafel plot confirms that the highly crystalline β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 shows very high performance compared with these other materials, and generated an OER current of 10 mA/cm2 at an overpotential of 430 mV (1.66 V RHE) in a 0.1 M aqueous KOH solution (even without iR drop subtraction). The superior performance of β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)2 has presumably not been previously reported because of the difficulty in synthesizing highly

**Figure 7.** Tafel plots comparing the activity of β-FeOOH:Ni (22 at.%, filled red circles) to various Fe-based catalysts in alkaline electrolytes. For comparison purposes, dashed lines with blue and deep blue filled circles show data for highly crystalline β-FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%) and β-FeOOH, respectively (from previous work).<sup>31</sup> Additionally, the dashed line with black unfilled circles provides data for poorly crystallized β-FeOOH from a prior report<sup>42</sup> and commercial α-FeOOH (Alfa Aesar). The orange line (amorphous  $Fe_2O_3$ )<sup>4</sup> and blue<sup>10</sup> and black triangles<sup>25</sup> indicates data from the literature.

crystalline  $\beta$ -FeOOH on the present 10 nm scale. Previous attempts generally produced crystals 100 nm to 1  $\mu$ m in size. It is speculated that the high OER activity is due to the high crystallinity with nanoscale 3x13 nm dimensions, Fe-Ni interaction by Ni doping and surface modification of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

Gaseous  $O_2$  evolution over  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH) $_2$  (22 at.%) was confirmed at +1.56 V  $\nu s$ . RHE using a sealed glass reactor  $^{31,32}$  filled with a 0.1 M aqueous KOH solution, as shown in Figure 8.  $H_2$  and  $O_2$  were generated stoichiometrically (at a 2:1 molar ratio), and the  $O_2$  evolution rates (based on consuming four electrons (e<sup>-</sup>/4)) remained constant during a period of 6 h together with almost 100% Faradaic efficiency (dotted line). The  $O_2$  evolution rate was increased by a factor of 9 compared with that previously reported for  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%).

As for stability, XRD data confirmed that the crystal phase of the  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (22 at.%)/CP remained unchanged after the electrochemical water oxidation reaction for 6 h (Figure S7). XPS also clarified that the chemical states of Fe and Ni remained unchanged (Figure S8). Exfoliation of the nanorods was negligible under these anodic conditions. In addition, we determined that post-coating of undoped  $\beta$ -FeOOH with amorphous NiO<sub>x</sub>H<sub>y</sub> resulted in lower activity than that of doped  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni (1.2 at.%) as reported previously. The simultaneous doping of Ni in the  $\beta$ -phase lattice and coating with a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in the one-pot synthesis could be critical to the high OER activity of the present  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

This  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni can be synthesized at room temperature in a one-pot process and the resulting colloidal solutions are very stable (showing no precipitation after up to one month of storage). Although the role of the amine in the facile synthesis of the crystalline  $\beta$ -FeOOH has not yet been

**Figure 8.** Stoichiometric electrochemical water splitting by β-FeOOH:Ni with different total Ni concentrations/CP anodes at +1.56 V (vs. RHE) in a 0.1 M aqueous KOH solution (pH 12.8) with a Pt cathode. The dashed lines indicate the theoretical amount of oxygen calculated from the observed current assuming 100% current efficiency.

clarified, this new synthetic procedure should be highly beneficial with regard to practical applications. As noted, it is well known that Fe-based additives significantly enhance the OER activity of Ni-based oxyhydroxide catalysts, although the mechanistic process is not yet clear. Recently, Bell, et al. reported operando X-ray absorption spectroscopy studies of Ni-rich Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>OOH in an alkaline electrolyte and determined that its low overpotential is due to Fe sites with unusually short Fe-O bond distances induced by edge-sharing with surrounding [NiO<sub>6</sub>] octahedra, and that Ni sites in Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>OOH are not active for the oxidation of water. <sup>10</sup> In addition, they proposed OER pathway in Ni<sub>1-x</sub>Fe<sub>x</sub>OOH catalysts with intermediates HO\*. O\*. and HOO\*. 10 Boettcher et. al. also suggested that Fe was the active site for OER on Ni-rich Ni-Fe-O system. 9, 18 Therefore, active site of the present Fe-rich β-FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst might be Fe, and electronic state of Fe correlated with interaction with the intermediates HO\*, O\* and HOO\* could be modified by adjacent Ni species in a similar manner. We believe that the present hyperfine β-FeOOH with added Ni species could serve as a good basis for further research on the OER activity of Ni-Fe systems. The present cost-effective Fe-based OER catalysts can be widely applied to construct artificial photosynthetic systems for solar fuel generation by combination with CO<sub>2</sub> reduction catalysts.

#### 4. Conclusion

The electrochemical OER activity of highly crystalline, hyperfine  $\beta$ -FeOOH nanorods doped with Ni during water splitting is further enhanced by a surface coating of Ni hydroxide species. This material can be synthesized using a simple room temperature procedure, and colloidal aqueous solutions of the  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanorods are very stable, with no apparent precipitation over a time span of at least one month. These nanorods are also readily processed into electrodes. An electrode composed of  $\beta$ -FeOOH:Ni/a-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>

(Ni/Fe = 22 at.%) nanorods, in which there appear to be interactions between Fe atoms and Ni species, generates an OER current of 10 mA/cm2 at an overpotential of 430 mV (+1.66 V vs. RHE) in 0.1 M KOH (without subtracting the iR drop). This performance is superior to that exhibited by Fe-rich oxide and oxyhydroxide catalysts. Mössbauer spectroscopy suggested electronic interaction between Fe and Ni species, which may be crucial evidence for the enhanced activity in the Fe-rich OER system.

#### **Acknowledgement**

This work was partially supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Innovative Areas Artificial Photosynthesis (AnApple) from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) for material synthesis (24107005), and by the Advanced Catalytic Transformation Program for Carbon Utilization (ACT-C) from the Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST). The XAFS data were acquired at the BL33XU and BL16XU beamline at the SPring-8 facility with the approval of the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI) (Proposal Nos. 2016B7032 and 2017A7034 <BL33XU>, and 2016A5070 and 2017A5070 <BL16XU>). The authors wish to thank Mr. Ikoma Narita and Ms. Saori Narita for experimental assistance and Mr. Noritomo Suzuki for TEM observations. The authors are also grateful to Dr. Shunsuke Sato and Dr. Takeo Arai for fruitful discussions.

Contributor other than co-authors and the financial support may by acknowledged in a separate paragraph at the end of the manuscript.

#### **References**

- 1. T. R. Cook, D. K. Dogutan, S. Y. Reece, Y. Surendranath, T. S. Teets, D. G. Nocera, *Chem. Rev.* **2010**, *110*, 6474.
- 2. M. G. Walter, E. L. Warren, J. R. McKone, S. W. Boettcher, Q. Mi, E. A. Santori, N. S. Lewis, *Chem. Rev.* **2010**, *110*, 6446.
- 3. C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *136*, 16977.
- 4. R. D. L. Smith, M. S. Prévot, R. D. Fagan, Z. Zhang, P. A. Sedach, M. K. J. Siu, S. Trudel, C. P. Berlinguette, *Science* **2013**, *340*, 60.
- 5. D. A. Corrigan, R. M. Bendert, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1989**, *136*, 723.
- 6. E. L. Miller, R. E. Rocheleau, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1997**, *144*, 3072.
- 7. M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329.
- 8. B. M. Hunter, J. D. Blakemore, M. Deimund, H. B. Gray, J. R. Winkler, A. M. Müller, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 13118.
- 9. L. Trotochaud, J. K. Ranney, K. N. Williams, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 17253.
- 10. D. Friebel, M. W. Louie, M. Bajdich, K. E. Sanwald, Y. Cai, , A. M. Wise, M-J. Cheng, D. Sokaras, T-C. Weng, R. Alonso-Mori, R. C.Davis, J. R. Bargar, J. K. Nørskov, A. Nilsson, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 1305.
- 11. Y. Surendranath, M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 16501.
- 12. Y. Surendranath, M. Dincă, D. G. Nocera, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2009**, *131*, 2615.
- 13. A. J. Esswein, Y. Surendranath, S. Y. Reece, D. G. Nocera, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 499.
- 14. J. W. D. Ng, M. Garcia-Melchor, M. Bajdich, P. Chakthranont, C. Kirk, A. Vojvodic, T. F. Jaramillo, *Nature Energy* **2016**, *1*, 16053.
- 15. L. C. Jia, K. Harbauer, P. Bogdanoff, I.

- Herrmann-Geppert, A. Ramirez, R. van de Krol, S. Fiechter, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2014**, *2*, 20196.
- 16. J. R. Swierk, S. Klaus, L. Trotochaud, A. T. Bell, T. D. Tilley, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2015**, *119*, 19022.
- 17. T. Nakagawa, C. A. Beasley, R. W. Murray, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2009**, *113*, 12958.
- 18. M. S. Burke, L. J. Enman, A. S. Batchellor, S. H. Zou, S. W. Boettcher, *Chem. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 7549.
- 19. O. Diaz-Morales, I. Ledezma-Yanez, M. T. M. Koper, F. Calle-Vallejo, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, 5, 5380.
- 20. G. L. Elizarova, L. G. Matvienko, V. L. Kuznetsov, D. I. Kochubey, V. N. Parmon, *J. Mol. Catal. A.* **1995**, *104*, 43.
- 21. J. W. Schultze, S. Mohr, M. M. Lohrengel, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **1983**, *154*, 57.
- 22. M. E. G. Lyons, L. D. Burke, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **1984**, *170*, 377.
- 23. J. A. Seabold, K-S. Choi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 2186.
- 24. K. J. McDonald, K-S. Choi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 8553.
- 25. W. D. Chemelewski, H-C. Lee, J-F. Lin, A. J. Bard, C. B. Mullins, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 2843.
- 26. W. D. Chemelewski, J. R. Rosenstock, C. B. Mullins, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2014**, *2*, 14957.
- 27. K. Stahl, K. Nielsen, J. Z. Jiang, B. Lebech, J. C. Hanson, P. Norby, J. van Lanschot, *Corrosion Science* **2003**, *45*, 2563.
- 28. L. L. Cai, J. H. Zhao, H. Li, J. Park, I. S. Cho, H. S. Han, X. L. Zheng, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2016**, *1*, 624.
- 29. D. Tang, O. Mabayoje, Y. Q. Lai, Y. X. Liu, C. B. Mullins, *Chemistryselect* **2017**, *2*, 2230.
- 30. G. Park, Y-I. Kim, Y. H. Kim, M. Park, K. Y. Jang, H. Song, K. M. Nam, *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 4751.
- 31. T. M. Suzuki, T. Nonaka, A. Suda, N. Suzuki, Y. Matsuoka, T. Arai, S. Sato, T. Morikawa, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2017**, *1*, 636.
- 32. T. Arai, S. Sato, T. Morikawa, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 1998.
- 33. P. L. Liao, J. A. Keith, E. A. Carter, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 13296.
- 34. T. Nonaka, K. Dohmae, T. Araki, Y. Hayashi, Y. Hirose, T. Uruga, H. Yamazaki, T. Mochizuki, H. Tanida, S. Goto, *Rev. Sci. Instrum.* **2012**, 83 (8).
- 35. J. Chastain, R. C. King, Jr., *Handbook of X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy* p.81, Physical Electronics, Inc., USA, **1992**.
- 36. D. Briggs, M. P. Seah, *Practical surface analysis second edition* Vol.1, p.608, Wiley, UK, **1990**.
- 37. E. Murad, *Clay Minerals* **1979**, *14*, 273.
- 38. J. Yan, P. Li, Y. Ji, H. Bian, Y. Li, S. F. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A*. **2017**, *5*, 21478.
- 39. B. Klahr, S. Gimenez, F. Fabregat-Santiago, T. Hamann, J. Bisquert, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 4294.
- 40. V. Alexandrov, K. M. Rosso, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *140*, 234701.
- 41. J. H. Song, M. Z. Bazant, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2013**, *160*, A15-A24.
- 42. S. H. Jiang, S. Park, Y. Yoon, J. H. Lee, W. M. Wu, N. P. Dan, M. J. Sadowsky, H. G. Hur, *Environ. Sci. Technol.* **2013**, *47*, 10078.