---
source: Teng 等 - 2025 - FeNi‐LDH Coated With Orange‐Peel Carbon Aerogel for Oxygen Evolution Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.073s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:00:18.089817Z
---

www.chemsuschem.org

# **FeNi-LDH Coated With Orange-Peel Carbon Aerogel for Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Yang Teng,[a] Peng-Cheng Ji,[a] and [Hai-Lang](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8837-3802) Jia\*[a]

In this work, the waste orange-peel was used as carbon source, and the orange-peel derived carbon material can be obtained through simple pyrolysis. Then, we designed the structure of orange-peel carbon aerogel grown on iron-nickel layered double hydroxides in situ to achieve the effect of carbon coating (FeNi-LDH/CA). The oxygen evolution reaction catalytic performance of FeNi-LDH/CA is excellent, far exceeding that of commercial RuO2. In 1 M KOH, the overpotential of FeNi-LDH/ CA is only 250 mV (10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), obviously better than that of commercial RuO2 (295 mV). FeNi-LDH/CA shows good cycling stability, and after long-term i-t testing, the performance only decays by 3% after running at 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for 100 h. When used as an anode, the voltage of water-splitting is only 1.48 V at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . The rechargeable liquid zinc-air battery based on Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA catalyst has higher open-circuit voltage (1.543 V) and galvanostatic discharge capacity at 1.23 V (830 min, 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ). Moreover, the zinc-air battery based on Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA has a small charge-discharge voltage gap (0.65 V) at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , after 200 consecutive cycles (66 h), the charge-discharge voltage gap only increased by about 30 mV, indicating good cycling stability.

## **1. Introduction**

Energy, as the vital resource for the survival and progress of human society, plays an immensely significant role in human production and daily life. The environmental pollution and greenhouse effect caused by the use of fossil fuels have a significant impact on the development of human society and negatively affect people's quality of life. Metal-air batteries, water-splitting, and fuel cells have gained considerable attention in the realm of new energy storage and conversion devices, primarily due to their remarkable efficacy, impressive energy density, and minimal carbon dioxide emissions. These technologies are being recognized as promising substitutes for fossil fuels.[1–2]

It is worth noting that electrochemical energy storage and conversion devices may undergo some electrochemical reactions during operation, such as oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), oxygen evolution reaction (OER), hydrogen evolution reaction (HER).[3–6] These reactions have the disadvantage of high energy barriers and requiring high overpotential driving, thus greatly reducing the conversion efficiency of the system. Currently, certain precious metal materials, such as platinumbased materials, ruthenium-based materials, and iridium-based materials, exhibit exceptional electrocatalytic properties in these

[a] *School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Annlysis and Testing Center of Jiangsu University of Technology, Institute of Advanced Functional Materials for Energy, Jiangsu University of Technology, Changzhou, P. R. China*

*Correspondence: Hai-Lang Jia, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Annlysis and Testing Center of Jiangsu University of Technology, Institute of Advanced Functional Materials for Energy, Jiangsu University of Technology, Changzhou 213001, P. R. China. Email: jiahailang85@126.com*

*Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202401276>*

electrochemical reactions.[7–9] While catalysts based on precious metals do showcase exceptional catalytic performance, they are not without drawbacks. These include high cost, limited stability, limited availability, and susceptibility to poisoning. Hence, the development of efficient, cost-effective, and stable electrocatalysts to replace conventional precious metal catalysts holds paramount importance.[10–13] Especially for the OER reaction, its high reaction potential and overpotential loss seriously hinder the development of water-splitting technology. Numerous novel and highly efficient OER catalysts have been successfully developed, including transition metal oxides, transition metal nitrides, transition metal carbides, and doped carbon materials.[14–16] Among them, iron-nickel layered double hydroxides (FeNi-LDH) has shown good catalytic activity and stability, which has attracted extensive research. FeNi-LDH has ordered units arranged periodically, with a hexagonal layered α-Ni(OH)2 unit structure. Some of the Ni positions in the crystal cell are replaced by Fe, and these hydroxides are easily transformed into γ-NiOOH with high OER catalytic activity in alkaline environments.[17–19] However, there are also drawbacks such as easy aggregation of layers and poor conductivity, which can affect mass and charge transfer efficiency and hinder the discharge of oxygen precipitation. Ishizaki et al. reported iron rich FeNi-LDH nanosheets (Fe/Ni=1:1.5 mol/mol) with a sheet size of 10–20 nm and abundant OER active sites, with an overpotential of only 269 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [20] Wu prepared high entropy FeCoNiMg-LDH nanosheets through a high entropy coordination strategy involving inert Mg, which not only exhibited high OER catalytic activity (reaching 302 mV at 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), but also exhibited good stability at a high current density of 300 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [21]

In addition, combining FeNi-LDH with other types of materials through synergistic effects can further improve the overall catalytic performance, such as composite with other metal nanomaterials or carbon materials, constructing hetero-

junction structures.[22–24] Qian fabricated a three-dimensional independent p-n junction FeNi LDH/CoP/CC electrode material, in which the positively charged FeNi LDH within the space charge region greatly facilitates the oxygen evolution reaction.[25] Yang constructs OER hybrid catalysts by sequentially stacking alternating layers of FeNi double hydroxide cation layers and negatively charged graphene oxide layers. This method can synergistically combine the high OER catalytic activity of double hydroxides with the conductive graphene layer, which helps to expose catalytic active sites, improve charge transfer, and achieve excellent catalytic performance.[26] In this study, discarded orange-peel is utilized as the raw material to produce biomass-derived carbon materials, which effectively exploit the inherent features of biomass to obtain carbon materials with high specific surface area, high porosity and good conductivity.[27,28] The carbon aerogel catalyst is designed by simple hydrothermal reduction method. Due to the uniform coating of carbon aerogel, the active site and intrinsic activity of FeNi-LDH/CA catalyst have been greatly improved. As a result, the catalytic performance has been significantly improved. Compared with commercial RuO2 and FeNi-LDH, FeNi-LDH/CA exhibits significantly better OER catalytic performance.

## **Experimental**

#### **Synthesis of FeNi-LDH**

FeCl3 ·6H2O (135 mg, 0.50 mmol), Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O (435 mg, 1.50 mmol), urea (300 mg, 5.0 mmol), NH4F (148 mg, 4.0 mmol) were added in deionized water (20 mL), and then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting homogeneous mixture was sealed in a Teflon-lined autoclave and maintained at 120°C for 8 h. The glass bottle was naturally cooled to room temperature, and the mixture was centrifuged and washed with deionized water, and dried at 60°C to obtain FeNi-LDH. For comparison, relevant experiments without Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O or FeCl3 ·6H2O were conducted under the same operating conditions.

#### **Synthesis of FeNi-LDH/CA**

Typically, soak the orange-peel in deionized water for 4 h, then wash with ethanol and deionized water, and dried at 70°C in vacuum overnight. Then, the remaining material is crushed into powder to obtain yellow powder. Then the yellow powder was sealed in a quartz tube and heated at 900°C for 2 h under highpurity N2 atmosphere, and the heating rate is 5°C min <sup>1</sup> . The resulting black powder was washed with 2 M HCl and deionized water, and dried at 60°C in vacuum overnight. Then the residue was added to HNO3, ultrasound for 10 min, then the mixture was stirred at 80°C for 4 h, cooled to room temperature. Then added deionized water for dilution and filtered, the residue was repeatedly washed with deionized water and ethanol, and separated by centrifugation, dried at 60°C.

After that, the orange-peel carbon (50 mg), FeNi-LDH (150 mg), trace amounts of graphene oxide (GO, 5 mg) and Vitamin C (VC, 60 mg) were added in deionized water (30 mL) in a glass bottle, ultrasound for 20 min. Then the sealed glass bottle was heated to 70°C and reacted for 18 h. After that, the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature. Then replace the ionized water and perform repeated freezing and thawing. At last, dried at 60°C to obtain FeNi-LDH/CA.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

The synthesis of FeNi-LDH/CA is schematically illustrated in Figure 1. By selecting readily available waste orange-peel as the raw material, a substantial quantity of carbon material can be obtained through straightforward pretreatment and pyrolysis processes. In our previous work, we have conducted relevant research on orange-peel derived carbon.[29] The results indicate that orange-peel derived carbon has many excellent properties, such as good graphitization degree and conductivity, few layer and ultra-thin structure, large specific surface area, etc. We have conducted some relevant characterizations on the prepared orange-peel carbon. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis of the orange-peel carbon is depicted in Figure S1. It is evident that orange-peel carbon exhibits two very typical diffraction peaks at 21.7° and 43.3°, corresponding to the (002) and (100) crystal

**Figure 1.** Fabrication process of FeNi-LDH/CA.

1864564x, 2025, 2, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401276 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

planes of the carbon material, respectively. Compared with general carbon materials such as graphene and carbon nanotubes, the angle at the (002) crystal plane is significantly smaller, indicating a larger interlayer spacing. After actual measurement, the interlayer spacing reached 0.439 nm (Figure S2). To gain deeper insights into the morphology of the material, Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) analysis was conducted to examine its structure. From Figure S2, it can be seen that orange-peel derived carbon materials have a significant ultra-thin layered structure, which is stacked and intertwined with each other. The Raman spectroscopy was used to test the degree of defects and internal structural characteristics of carbon materials. As depicted in Figure S3, the measured intensity ratio (ID/IG) of the D band (1350 cm <sup>1</sup> ) to G band (1590 cm <sup>1</sup> ) is 0.82, suggesting that the carbon material derived from orange-peel exhibits a relatively high level of graphitization while also possessing certain defects. Additionally, a prominent 2D peak is observed at 2647 cm <sup>1</sup> , with an I2D/IG ratio of 0.61, indicating that the carbon material possesses a reduced number of layers. In previous studies, we have conducted detailed studies on this orange-peel derived carbon, and the results showed that it has high graphitization degree, good conductivity, and few layers of structural characteristics, even better than purchased commercial graphene. These characteristics indicate that orange-peel derived carbon is a material with a thin layer structure, which is very suitable as a support or coating material for application in the field of catalysis. Moreover, we assume that if the orange-peel derived carbon is further designed as a carbon aerogel material, the specific surface area of the material will be greatly improved. If this carbon aerogel is further compounded with other catalytic materials as a support or coating material, the catalytic active sites will be fully exposed, and the electrolyte can also fully contact the active sites, thus enhancing the effect of material transfer and charge transfer. Based on this, we designed orange-peel carbon aerogel material by micro GO induction and hydrothermal reduction, and then in situ grown on FeNi-LDH to enhance the conductivity of the material. For effective comparison, we also prepared independent FeNi-LDH. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) was employed to examine and analyze the morphology of the materials. As shown in Figure 2a and Figure S4, FeNi-LDH presents a typical sheet-like structure, which is stacked together to form a flower cluster like structure. To further investigate the elemental distribution, we conducted SEM-EDS mapping analysis (Energy Dispersive Spectrometer) of the material. Clearly, the distribution of Fe, Ni, and O elements appears highly uniform, as observed in Figure S5. TEM images can also clearly show that FeNi-LDH exhibits a sheet-like structure. High-Resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy (HR-TEM) analysis was performed to provide further confirmation of the FeNi-LDH. As shown in Figure S6, the lattice spacing is clearly visible and measures 0.259 nm, which can be attributed to the (204) facets (PDF#26–1286).[30,31] Subsequently, we effectively compounded FeNi-LDH with orange- peel carbon aerogel. It can be seen from Figure S7 that FeNi-LDH/CA presents a good shape of carbon aerogel with light weight. From Figure 2b and Figure S8, it can be seen that the thin layered materials are intertwined and stacked together to form a honeycomb-like structure, with a large number of uniform and consistent holes on the surface. The adjacent holes are tightly connected, forming a regular three-dimensional (3D) network structure. This 3D structure exhibits a favorable specific surface area and numerous pores, facilitating efficient electrolyte infiltration and optimal exposure of active sites. We further used TEM to observe the coating of FeNi-LDH by carbon aerogel. Figure 2c–d and Figure S9, it can be clearly seen that FeNi-LDH is well coated in the carbon aerogel, and the carbon layer is very thin, this layer of carbon material on the surface can effectively improve its conductivity. After compounding with orange-peel carbon aerogel, the morphology and size of

**Figure 2.** (a) SEM image of FeNi-LDH, (b) SEM image of FeNi-LDH/CA, (c) TEM image of FeNi-LDH/CA, (d) HR-TEM image of FeNi-LDH/CA, (e) SEM-EDS mapping images of FeNi-LDH/CA.

FeNi-LDH did not change, but a layer of carbon material was coated on the surface of FeNi-LDH. To further analyze the element distribution, we conducted SEM-EDS mapping analysis of FeNi-LDH/CA. As depicted in Figure 2e, the distribution of Fe,

Ni, O, and C elements appears highly uniform.

The N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms of FeNi-LDH and FeNi-LDH/CA were also tested. As shown in Figure S10, the adsorption-desorption isotherm of FeNi-LDH presents II curve, with the isotherm rapidly increasing at low relative pressure and remaining almost unchanged at medium relative pressure. However, as the relative pressure approaches 0.9, it exhibits a sharp increase again, suggesting the existence of a significant number of mesopores or macropores. The specific Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area is only 41.3 m2 g <sup>1</sup> . The pore size distribution reveals the presence of predominantly large mesopores, with sizes around 40 nm (Figure S11). Carbon aerogels possess a high specific surface area and a welldeveloped pore structure. The strategy of in-situ growth of carbon aerogels on FeNi-LDH is designed to make full use of these advantages, the overall activity and effectiveness of the system can be enhanced. For FeNi-LDH/CA, the isotherm presents a typical II curve (Figure 3a). When the relative pressure is low, and the isotherm exhibits a rapid rise, it indicates the presence of a microporous structure. However, as the relative pressure approaches 0.9, the isotherm shows a rapid increase in adsorption capacity, which suggests the presence of a significant number of mesoporous and macroporous structures. From the analysis of the pore size distribution, it is evident that there are mesopores with sizes ranging from 3–4 nm as well as relatively larger mesopores around 40 nm. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) of these materials are shown in Figure 3b. It can be seen that FeOOH can be obtained without Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O, and its diffraction peak is consistent with the standard spectrum (PDF#75–1594). If there is no FeCl3 ·6H2O, what we get is Ni(OH)2 (PDF#14–0117). FeNi-LDH exhibits significant diffraction peaks at positions of 11.6°, 23.3°, 34.4°, 39.1°, 46.6°, 52.7°, 56.1°, 59.9° and 61.3°, corresponding to crystal planes of (006), (0012), (204), (2010), (2016), (306), (2022), (220) and (2120), respectively (PDF#26–1286). After compounding with orange-peel carbon aerogel, the structure of FeNi-LDH has not changed at all, and still maintains good crystallinity. In addition, this carbon aerogel belongs to amorphous carbon, so no obvious diffraction peak is found. To further analyze the elemental composition and chemical valence state of FeNi-LDH/ CA, X-ray photoemission spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed.[32–34] As depicted in Figure S12, the elements C, O, Ni, and Fe are clearly distinguishable and can be readily resolved in the XPS analysis. In the high-resolution C1s spectrum, three distinct peaks are observed, corresponding to C=C, C O, and C=O at 284.8 eV, 285.7 eV, and 289.1 eV, respectively (Figure S13). From Figure 3c, it can be seen that there are two significant peaks. Two peaks at 712.10 eV and 725.20 eV belong

**Figure 3.** (a) N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms of FeNi-LDH/CA (the illustration is the pore size distribution), (b) XRD of these materials, (c–d) high-resolution XPS spectra of Fe2p, Ni2p.

to Fe3<sup>+</sup> in the FeNi-LDH lattice, respectively. There are also two peaks at 706.40 eV and 717.40 eV belonging to Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p3/2 and Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p1/2, respectively. In high-temperature and high-pressure environments, urea and NH4F have a certain degree of reducibility, and water molecules also may dissociate into hydrogen (H\*) and hydroxyl (OH\*) radicals, which may be the reason for the presence of small amounts of Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. Fe<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> can regulate the local atomic structure of the catalyst to a certain extent, improving the OER catalytic activity.35–38 In the Ni2p spectrum, two distinctive peaks can be observed. As depicted in Figure 3d, these peaks have binding energies of 856.03 eV and 873.80 eV, indicating the presence of Ni2<sup>+</sup>. In addition, we further tested the XPS spectra of FeNi-LDH and found that it is consistent with FeNi-LDH/CA (Figure S14). In addition, ICP-OES (Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectrometer) was used to determine the metal composition ratio between Ni and Fe of FeNi-LDH before/after compositing with orange-peel carbon aerogel. For FeNi-LDH, the results show that Fe and Ni content is 162245 ppm and 488056 ppm, respectively. After compositing with orange-peel carbon aerogel, the results show that Fe and Ni content is 113435 ppm and 320706 ppm, respectively. It can be seen that the metal composition ratio of Fe and Ni remains unchanged, with a composition structure of 1:3.

The OER catalytic performance of the materials was evaluated using a three-electrode system under alkaline conditions.[39–41] Notably, in 1 M KOH, the materials displayed distinct catalytic effects, suggesting that the variations in morphology and structure significantly influence the catalytic performance. In order to conduct parallel comparisons, we conducted experiments without FeCl3 ·6H2O and without Ni- (NO3)2 ·6H2O under the same operating conditions. The XRD test results indicate that FeOOH is obtained without Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O, and Ni(OH)2 is obtained without FeCl3 ·6H2O. Figure 4a illustrates the OER catalytic performance, indicating that Ni(OH)2 exhibits the poorest performance. Specifically, Ni(OH)2 demonstrates an overpotential of 377 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . At a higher current density of 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential increases significantly to 513 mV. As the current density increases, its overpotential rapidly increases. The catalytic performance of FeOOH has shown remarkable improvement. At 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential has decreased to 347 mV, and at 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential has further reduced to 428 mV. For FeNi-LDH, its OER catalytic performance has been significantly improved. At 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential is only 309 mV. Compared with FeOOH and Ni(OH)2, the overpotential loss is greatly reduced, and can even be comparable to that of commercial RuO2. Under high current density, there is also a significant improvement in overpotential. At 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential has decreased to 425 mV. In Figure 4b, it can be observed that RuO2 exhibits an overpotential of 295 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 422 mV at 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . As is well known, for electrocatalytic materials, if their ability to transport substances and transfer charges can be improved, their catalytic performance will inevitably be greatly enhanced. We make full use of the advantages of high porosity, good conductivity and large

**Figure 4.** (a) Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of the FeOOH, Ni(OH)2, FeNi-LDH, FeNi-LDH/CA and commercial RuO2 catalyzed OER in 1 M KOH, (b) The overpotential of FeNi-LDH, FeNi-LDH/CA and commercial RuO2 at current densities of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively, (c) Tafel plots of FeOOH, Ni(OH)2, FeNi-LDH, FeNi-LDH/CA and commercial RuO2 catalyzed OER in 1 M KOH, (d) EIS of FeNi-LDH, FeNi-LDH/CA and commercial RuO2 in 1 M KOH.

specific surface area of carbon aerogel, and effectively coat FeNi-LDH. The results clearly demonstrate that FeNi-LDH/CA exhibits outstanding OER catalytic performance, surpassing RuO2 and many other similar catalysts under the same conditions (Table S1). For FeNi-LDH/CA, the overpotential is remarkably low. The overpotential is only 250 mV, 301 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. In addition, at higher current densities, its advantages are more pronounced. Even at a high current density of 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential of FeNi-LDH/CA is only 400 mV. This indicates that FeNi-LDH/CA possesses excellent reaction kinetics, which greatly contributes to its impressive catalytic performance. Therefore, we evaluate the reaction kinetics properties of these materials using the Tafel slope. The cyclic voltammetry curves (CV) of FeNi-LDH and FeNi-LDH/CA were also tested at a scan rate of 10 mV/s. As shown in Figure S15, it can be seen that they all have a pair of obvious redox peaks. The anode peak at 1.43 V belongs to the transition of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/ Ni3<sup>+</sup>, and FeNi-LDH and FeNi-LDH/CA are almost the same. As depicted in Figure 4c, the Tafel slopes of FeOOH and Ni(OH)2 are 73.9 mVdec <sup>1</sup> and 102.7 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , respectively. FeOOH shows a relatively low Tafel slope, and its catalytic performance also improves to a certain extent with the increase of current density. However, when a layered material such as FeNi-LDH is formed, the Tafel slope further decreases to 87.2 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , indicating a notable improvement in its kinetic performance. After compounding with carbon aerogel, the mass transfer and charge transfer properties will certainly be improved. The Tafel slope of FeNi-LDH/CA is only 69.9 mVdec <sup>1</sup> (RuO2, 83.7 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ). From the Tafel slope of FeNi-LDH/CA, it can be inferred that the OH species recombination step after the first electron transfer step is the rate-determining step. This smaller Tafel slope also means that the rate-determining step is the end step of a multielectron transfer reaction.[42,43] The charge transfer performance is a critical factor affecting catalyst performance. The electrochemical impedance spectrum (EIS) and charge transfer impedance (Rct) of the catalysts have been measured. As depicted in Figure 4d, the charge transfer impedance of FeNi-LDH in 1 M KOH is remarkably low, measuring only 20.83 Ω. This indicates excellent charge transfer performance of FeNi-LDH. Compared with commercial RuO2 (13.62 Ω), the charge transfer performance of FeNi-LDH is slightly inferior, which is related to its own unsatisfactory conductivity. However, after being compounded with carbon aerogel, the conductivity of the material will be greatly improved, so the Rct value of FeNi-LDH/CA is only 5.45 Ω. FeNi-LDH/CA has excellent kinetic reaction performance and fast charge transfer ability, which is consistent with its highperformance OER catalytic performance. We have used ICP-OES to test the content of Fe and Ni, and based on this, we have further calculated the turnover frequencies (TOF) and mass activity (Figure S16–17).[44,45] At the overpotential of 300 mV for FeNi-LDH/CA, the TOF value was 0.033 O2 s 1 , the mass activity was 0.22 Amg <sup>1</sup> . The OER faradaic efficiency of the FeNi-LDH/ CA was measured by collecting the actual amount of O2 gas using a water displacement method. As shown in Figure S18– 19, the volumes of O2 collected at the time points of 8 min, 16 min, 24 min, 32 min, 40 min, 48 min, and 56 min were 2.9 mL, 5.8 mL, 8.8 mL, 11.7 mL, 14.6 mL, 17.5 mL, and 20.4 mL, respectively. The Faraday efficiency of FeNi-LDH/CA exceeds 97% in alkaline electrolyte, indicating high energy-conversion efficiency.[46,47]

The electrochemical active area (ECSA) is an important parameter that reflects the catalytic activity of a material. It can be indirectly determined through double-layer capacitance (Cdl) measurements.[48,49] As shown in Figure 5a and Figure S20–S21, the Cdl of FeNi-LDH is only 4.8 mFcm <sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH. As expected, the conductivity and mass transfer performance of the material have been greatly improved after being coated with carbon aerogel, and the effective working active area is bound to increase a lot, so the value of Cdl of FeNi-LDH/CA has been increased to 16.4 mFcm <sup>2</sup> . The ECSA and roughness factor (RF) were determined by analyzing the recorded double-layer capacitance (Cdl) values in the non-faradaic region at various scan rates. This analysis provides insights into the surface area and roughness of the material. Based on Figure 5a, it is evident that FeNi-LDH/CA exhibits a significantly higher electrochemical active surface area and roughness factor under alkaline conditions (ECSA: 80.3 cm<sup>2</sup> , RF: 410) compared to those of FeNi-LDH (ECSA: 23.5 cm<sup>2</sup> , RF: 120). The results indicate that FeNi-LDH/CA has a larger electrochemical active area, which also means that it has more active sites and can fully contact the electrolyte for reaction. The stability of FeNi-LDH/CA through 5000 cycles of CV testing was tested. From Figure 5b, it can be seen that after 5000 cycles, the potential value of FeNi-LDH/CA remains almost unchanged, with only slight fluctuations at high current densities, indicating good cycling stability. After undergoing long-term i-t testing, the material exhibited negligible attenuation (3%) even after 100 h at a current density of 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH (Figure 5c). Furthermore, the utilization of Pt/C as the cathode catalyst and FeNi-LDH/CA as the anode in 1.0 M KOH allows for efficient water-splitting. The decomposition voltage is only 1.48 V at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . At higher current densities of 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the decomposition voltage slightly increases to 1.55 V and 1.60 V, respectively. Such a low overpotential means that energy loss will be greatly reduced and electrolysis efficiency will be improved during water-splitting.

In order to further investigate the OER catalytic performance of FeNi-LDH/CA, we assembled zinc-air batteries (ZAB) using FeNi-LDH/CA and commercial Pt/C as air cathode catalysts. Zinc foil as anode, FeNi-LDH/CA and Pt/C were loaded on foam nickel as cathode, and ZABs were constructed in 6 M KOH and 0.2 M Zn (OAc)2 electrolyte for performance comparison and evaluation. As shown in Figure 6a–b, the open-circuit voltages of Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA and Pt/C-RuO2 are 1.543 V and 1.448 V, respectively. This also indicates that Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA has better catalytic activity. Figure 6c shows the discharge polarization curve and corresponding power density of the zinc-air battery. Under the same conditions, the peak power density of the battery assembled with Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA is 110 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , which is higher than that of Pt/C-RuO2 (95 mWcm <sup>2</sup> ). Figures 6d show that at a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the discharge voltage of the zinc-air battery assembled with Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/ CA remains at 1.23 V for 830 minutes, while the discharge

1864564x, 2025, 2, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401276 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** (a) Cdl, ECSA, RF of the FeNi-LDH and FeNi-LDH/CA in 1 M KOH, (b) LSVs of FeNi-LDH/CA catalysts before and after 5000 CV cycles in 1 M KOH, (c) Long-term i-t response test for FeNi-LDH/CA at 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH, (d) the LSV curve of FeNi-LDH/CA as anode catalyst and Pt/C as the cathode catalyst for overall water-splitting in 1 M KOH.

**Figure 6.** (a) Schematic diagram of secondary zinc-air battery structure, (b) OPV of commercial Pt/C-RuO2 (left) and Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA (right), (c) Polarization and power density curves of commercial Pt/C-RuO2 and Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA, (d) Galvanostatic discharge curve of Pt/C-RuO2 and Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , (e) Long-term discharge-charge cycling performance of the batteries cycling at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , (f) The ZABs based on Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA were connected in series to supply adequate voltage to power the colored diode.

voltage of the battery assembled with Pt/C-RuO2 has dropped to 1.20 V at 345 minutes. As shown in Figures 6e, the ZAB based on Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA has a small charge-discharge voltage gap (0.65 V) at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , with an initial charge-discharge efficiency of 65.9%. After 200 consecutive cycles (66 h), the chargedischarge voltage gap only increased by about 30 mV, and the charge-discharge efficiency remained at 65.1%, indicating good cycling stability. The results are consistent with the excellent OER catalytic performance of FeNi-LDH/CA. In contrast, ZAB based on Pt/C-RuO2 showed significant degradation after 20 cycles (6.7 h) charge-discharge cycles, with a larger chargedischarge voltage gap (0.75 V). To further demonstrate the potential feasibility of this catalyst in some practical power devices, we connected several zinc-air batteries based on Pt/C-FeNi-LDH/CA in series, which can provide sufficient voltage and current for the colored diode (Figure 6f).

#### **3. Conclusions**

In summary, the waste orange-peel was used as raw material to obtain biomass derived carbon materials through simple pyrolysis. More importantly, orange-peel carbon aerogel can be obtained under normal temperature and pressure through micro-graphene oxide induction and hydrothermal reduction strategy. Then, a high-performance OER electrocatalyst can be obtained by in-situ growth of orange-peel carbon aerogel on FeNi-LDH. Due to the coating effect of carbon aerogel, the specific surface area and conductivity of the material have been significantly improved. The active sites can be fully exposed and in full contact with the electrolyte, the mass and charge transfer performance is enhanced, resulting in a significant improvement in the OER catalytic performance. FeNi-LDH/CA exhibits excellent OER catalytic performance and stability, greatly surpassing commercial RuO2. For FeNi-LDH/CA, the overpotential is only 250 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH. Even after 5000 CV cycles and 100 h of long-term operation, its performance has hardly decayed. During the water-splitting test, the material demonstrates a low decomposition voltage of only 1.48 V at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (1.60 V at 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ). Compared with the rechargeable ZAB based on Pt/C-RuO2, FeNi-LDH/CA shows better galvanostatic discharge capacity and good cycle stability. This strategy of coating with carbon aerogel is very simple, easy to repeat and scale preparation, and suitable for various types of carbon materials, which has a good guiding role in the development of new electrocatalysts.

# **Supporting Information Summary**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### *Author Contributions*

Yang Teng: Writing-review & editing, Formal analysis, Investigation, Methodology. Peng-Cheng Ji: Visualization, Formal analysis. Hai-Lang Jia: Writing-original draft, Conceptualization, Investigation, Funding acquisition.

# *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by grants from the Postgraduate Research & Practice Innovation Program of Jiangsu Province (SJCX23-1641) of China, Zhongwu Youth Innovative Talent Support Program of Jiangsu University of Technology, Qing Lan Project of Jiangsu Province.

#### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

Research data are not shared.

**Keywords:** Oxygen evolution reaction **·** Iron-nickel layered double hydroxides **·** Carbon aerogel **·** Water-splitting

- [1] M. Chatenet, B. G. Pollet, D. R. Dekel, F. Dionigi, J. Deseure, P. Millet, R. D. Braatz, M. Z. Bazant, M. Eikerling, I. Staffell, P. Balcombe, Y. Shao-Horn, Helmut Schäfer, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2022**, *51*, [4583–4762.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS01079K)
- [2] C. Chen, H. Jin, P. Wang, X. Sun, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CS00669G) Soc. Rev.* **2024**, *53*, [2022–2055](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CS00669G).
- [3] X. Song, Y. Song, X. Li, X. Wu, Z. Wang, X. Sun, M. An, X. Wei, Y. Zhao, J. Wei, C. Bi, J. Sun, H. Nara, J. You, Y. Yamauchi, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2305459.
- [4] M. S. Amer, P. Arunachalam, A. M. Al-Mayouf, A. A. Alsaleh, M. Alshalwi, Z. A. Almutairi, *ACS Appl. Energ. Mater.* **2023**, *6*, [11718–11731](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.3c02299).
- [5] P.-C. Ji, Y. Teng, H.-C. Li, M.-Y. Guan, H.-L. Jia, *[Sustain.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3SE01343J) Energy Fuels* **2024**, *8*, [82–89.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3SE01343J)
- [6] J. Wei, J. Lou, W. Hu, X. Song, H. Wang, Y. Yang, Y. Zhang, Z. Jiang, B. Mei, L. Wang, T. Yang, Q. Wang, X. Li, *Small* **2023**, *20*, 2308956.
- [7] X. Wang, X. Zhou, C. Li, H. Yao, C. Zhang, J. Zhou, R. Xu, L. Chu, H. Wang, M. Gu, H. Jiang, M. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204021.
- [8] X. Han, X. Yu, H. S. Park, *Mater. Chem. Front.* **2024**, *8*, [1536–1562.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3QM01002C)
- [9] J. Nishida, E. Kobayashi, T. Sugiyama, A. Matsuda, S. Toh, P. Ganesan, N. Nakashima, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2023**, *127*, [19325–19334](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.3c02321).
- [10] H. Zhu, Q. Wu, X. Yu, D. Zhao, W. Zhou, N. Wang, T. Hou, L. Li, *[Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matlet.2023.134333) Lett.* **2023**, *342*, [134333.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matlet.2023.134333)
- [11] M. Cai, L. Xu, J. Guo, X. Yang, X. He, P. Hu, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA05901D) Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, [592–612](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA05901D).
- [12] Y. Wang, L. Chen, H. Zhang, M. Humayun, J. Duan, X. Xu, Y. Fu, M. Bououdina, C. Wang, *Green Chem.* **2023**, *25*, [8181–8195](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3GC01828H).
- [13] L. Deng, S.-F. Hung, S. Zhao, W.-J. Zeng, Z.-Y. Lin, F. Hu, Y. Xie, L. Yin, L. Li, S. Peng, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, [5220–5230.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE01856C)
- [14] J. Zhang, Y. Fang, Y. Chen, Y. Gao, X. Zhang, T. Tang, B. Tian, H. Xiao, M. Zhao, E. Luo, T. Hu, J. Jia, H. Wu, *Dalton Trans.* **2024**, *53*, [619–627.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DT02899B)
- [15] J. Jian, M. Wang, Z. Wang, J. Meng, Y. Yang, L. Chang, *[Dalton](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DT03355D) Trans.* **2024**, *53*, [520–524.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DT03355D)
- [16] J. Wang, H. C. Zeng, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, [50324–50332.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c12305)
- [17] J.-M. Huo, Y. Wang, J.-N. Xue, W.-Y. Yuan, Q.-G. Zhai, M.-C. Hu, S.-N. Li, Y. Chen, *Small* **2023**, *20*, 2305877.
- [18] F. Zheng, W. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, W. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103318.

- [19] T. Song, H. Xue, J. Sun, N. Guo, J. Sun, Y.-R. Hao, Q. Wang, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC05540J) [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC05540J)* **2024**, *60*, 972–975.
- [20] M. Ishizaki, H. Tanno, H. Sutoh, T. Katsuki, T. Hayasaka, M. Yagi, Y. Tsubonouchi, K. Tajima, T. Kawamoto, Y. Sakuda, M. Kurihara, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.0c01439) Energ. Mater.* **2020**, *3*, [9040–9050](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.0c01439).
- [21] D. Liu, X. Yan, P. Guo, Y. Yang, Y. He, J. Liu, J. Chen, H. Pan, R. Wu, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00786) Catal.* **2023**, *13*, [7698–7706](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00786).
- [22] Z. Chen, Q. Li, H. Xiang, Y. Wang, P. Yang, C. Dai, H. Zhang, W. Xiao, Z. Wu, L. Wang, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2023**, *10*, [1493–1500](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI02703H).
- [23] S.-S. Liu, X.-F. Xu, J.-S. Li, *Dalton Trans.* **2022**, *51*, [11814–11822](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2DT01485H).
- [24] L. Wan, Z. Xu, Q. Cao, Y. Liao, B. Wang, K. Liu, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, [4535–](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c01388) [4543.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c01388)
- [25] K. He, T. T. Tsega, X. Liu, J. Zai, X.-H. Li, X. Liu, W. Li, N. Ali, X. Qian, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [11903–11909.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201905281)
- [26] X. Long, J. Li, S. Xiao, K. Yan, Z. Wang, H. Chen, S. Yang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402822) Chem.* **2014**, *53*, [7584–7588.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201402822)
- [27] L. Han, Y. Guo, H. Zhang, Z. Wang, F. Zhang, Y. Wang, X. Li, Y. Wang, J. Ye, *RSC Adv.* **2024**, *14*, [1813–1821.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3RA06799H)
- [28] J. Dhariwal, G. K. Rao, D. Vaya, *RSC [Sustain.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3SU00375B)* **2024**, *2*, 11–36.
- [29] Y. Teng, L. Zhou, Y.-Z. Chen, J.-Z. Gan, Y. Xi, H.-L. Jia, *[Dalton](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DT02969G) Trans.* **2023**, *52*, [15839–15847.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3DT02969G)
- [30] M.-X. Li, B. Xiao, Z.-Y. Zhao, Y. Ma, Y.-N. Zhou, X.-Y. Zhang, F.-G. Wang, Y.-M. Chai, B. Dong, *Fuel* **2023**, *336*, [126769](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fuel.2022.126769).
- [31] Y. Yang, Y. Wu, D. Guo, L. Liu, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2024**, *644*, [158810](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.158810).
- [32] S. Li, Z. Liu, F. Wang, F. Yuan, Y. Ni, *ACS Appl. Energ. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c02531)* **2021**, *4*, [12836–12847.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c02531)
- [33] X. Meng, J. Han, L. Lu, G. Qiu, Z. L. Wang, C. Sun, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1902551.
- [34] T. S. Munondea, H. Zhenga, P. N. Nomngongo, *Ultrason. [Sonochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultsonch.2019.104716)* **2019**, *59*, [104716](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ultsonch.2019.104716).
- [35] W. Zhao, H. Xu, H. Luan, N. Chen, P. Gong, K. Yao, Y. Shen, Y. Shao, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2102372.
- [36] Z. Li, M. Shao, H. An, Z. Wang, S. Xu, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5SC02417J) Sci.* **2015**, *6*, [6624–6631.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5SC02417J)

- [37] Y. Zhai, X. Ren, Y. Sun, D. Li, B. Wang, S. F. Liu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122091) B* **2023**, *323*, [122091.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122091)
- [38] D. Liu, Y. Yang, J. Zhang, L. Wang, Z. Ma, L. Ren, J. Wang, B. Xue, F. Li, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.168994) Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2023.168994)* **2023**, *941*, 168994.
- [39] J. Xia, H. Zhao, B. Huang, L. Xu, M. Luo, J. Wang, F. Luo, Y. Du, C.-H. Yan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1908367.
- [40] X. Bo, R. K Hocking, S. Zhou, Y. Li, X. Chen, J. Zhuang, Y. Du, C. Zhao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, [4225–4237.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE01609H)
- [41] Z. Yang, N. Jiang, S. Bei, K. Bao, M. Xiang, C. Yu, S. Dong, H. Qin, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2024.143768) Acta* **2024**, *476*, 143768.
- [42] S. Anantharaj, S. Noda, *Mater. Today Energy* **2022**, *29*, [101123](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtener.2022.101123).
- [43] A. T. Marshall, L. Vaisson-Béthune, *[Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2015.09.019) Commun.* **2015**, *61*, 23– [26](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2015.09.019).
- [44] L. Yaqoob, T. Noor, N. Iqbal, H. Nasir, N. Zaman, K. Talha, *J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.156583)* **2021**, *850*, [156583.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.156583)
- [45] M. Ishizaki, H. Tanno, H. Sutoh, T. Katsuki, T. Hayasaka, M. Yagi, Y. Tsubonouchi, K. Tajima, T. Kawamoto, Y. Sakuda, M. Kurihara, ACS Appl. *Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 9040 9050.
- [46] S. Zhao, Y. Wang, Y. Hao, L. Yin, C.-H. Kuo, H.-Y. Chen, L. Li, S. Peng, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2308925.
- [47] X. Shen, H. Li, Y. Zhang, T. Ma, Q. Li, Q. Jiao, Y. Zhao, H. Li, C. Feng, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121917) Catal. B* **2022**, *319*, [121917](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121917).
- [48] H. S. Jadhav, A. Roy, B. Z. Desalegan, J. G. Seo, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2020**, *4*, 312–323.
- [49] E. Saha, K. Karthick, S. Kundu, J. Mitra, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [26800–](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA06639K) [26809.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA06639K)

Manuscript received: July 6, 2024 Revised manuscript received: July 22, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: July 25, 2024 Version of record online: September 16, 2024