---
source: Walter 等 - 2018 - A Molecular Approach to Manganese Nitride Acting as a High Performance Electrocatalyst in the Oxygen.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 16.380s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:00:55.496521Z
---

## **Akzeptierter Artikel**

**Titel:** A Molecular Approach to Manganese Nitride Acting as a High Performance Electrocatalyst in the Oxygen Evolution Reaction

Autoren: Matthias Driess, Carsten Walter, Prashanth W Menezes, Martin Lerch, Steven Orthmann, Bernard Kaiser, Jona Schuch, and Paula Connor

Dieser Beitrag wurde nach Begutachtung und Überarbeitung sofort als "akzeptierter Artikel" (Accepted Article; AA) publiziert und kann unter Angabe der unten stehenden Digitalobjekt-Identifizierungsnummer (DOI) zitiert werden. Die deutsche Übersetzung wird gemeinsam mit der endgültigen englischen Fassung erscheinen. Die endgültige englische Fassung (Version of Record) wird ehestmöglich nach dem Redigieren und einem Korrekturgang als Early-View-Beitrag erscheinen und kann sich naturgemäß von der AA-Fassung unterscheiden. Leser sollten daher die endgültige Fassung, sobald sie veröffentlicht ist, verwenden. Für die AA-Fassung trägt der Autor die alleinige Verantwortung.

**Zitierweise:** Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 10.1002/anie.201710460 Angew. Chem. 10.1002/ange.201710460

Link zur VoR: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201710460 http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201710460 **COMMUNICATION**

# **A Molecular Approach to Manganese Nitride Acting as a High Performance Electrocatalyst in the Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Carsten Walter,[a]+ Prashanth W. Menezes,[a]+ Steven Orthmann,[b] Jona Schuch,[c] Paula Connor,[c] Bernhard Kaiser,[c] Martin Lerch, [b] and Matthias Driess[a]\*

*Abstract: The scalable synthesis of phase-pure crystalline manganese nitride (Mn3N2) from a molecular precursor is reported; it acts as a superiorly active and durable electrocatalyst in the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) from water under alkaline conditions. While electrophoretically deposited Mn3N2 on fluorine tin oxide (FTO) requires an overpotential of 390 mV, the latter is substantially decreased to merely 270 mV on nickel foam at a current density of 10 mAcm-2 with a durability of weeks. The high performance of this material is due to the rapid transformation of manganese sites at the surface of Mn3N2 into an amorphous active MnOx overlayer under operation conditions intimately connected with metallic Mn3N2 which increases the charge transfer from the active catalyst surface to the electrode substrates and thus outperforms the electrocatalytic activity in comparison to solely MnOx-based OER catalysts.*

The electrochemical overall water-splitting has emerged as an alternative approach for the large-scale production of hydrogen through the cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) along with the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[1,2] Although numerous inexpensive and active non-noble HER catalytic systems have been well established, the development of effective OER catalysts for the oxidative half-reaction of water is still challenging.[1] Presently, most of the best catalysts for OER are based on precious metals (i.e., MOx (M = Ir, Ru)), however, the high cost and scarcity greatly limit their practical large scale application.[2] Thus, considerable research efforts have been undertaken to the betterment of non-precious metal-based OER electrocatalysts employing earth-abundant metals. [3–7]

In this regard, Mn-based materials have drawn much attention as potential OER catalysts inspired by the Mncontaining oxygen evolving complex (OEC) in the natural photosystem II (PSII). Accordingly, various crystalline and amorphous MnOx materials have been synthesized and tested in the OER in the last few years.[8] The investigations led to the disposal of functional materials where a structure-activity relationship could be uncovered through the identification of the

- [a] C. Walter, Dr. P. W. Menezes, Prof. Dr. M. Driess Department of Chemistry, Metalorganics and Inorganic Materials Technische Universität Berlin Strasse des 17. Juni 135, Sekr. C2, 10623 Berlin (Germany) E-mail[: matthias.driess@tu-berlin.de](mailto:matthias.driess@tu-berlin.de)
- [b] S. Orthmann, Prof. Dr. M. Lerch Department of Chemistry, Solid State Chemistry Technische Universität Berlin Strasse des 17. Juni 135, Sekr. C2, 10623 Berlin (Germany)
- [c] J. Schuch, P. Connor, PD. Dr. B. Kaiser Institute of Material Science Technische Universität Darmstadt Jovanka-Bontschits-Straße 2, 64287 Darmstadt (Germany)
- +] These authors contributed equally to this work.

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

active sites and their dynamics by means of various microscopic and spectroscopic methods.[9] One of the decisive factors to boost the catalytic OER activity is the ability of polynuclear MnOx moieties in different coordination environments to undergo reversible redox transitions with mixed-valent states and to facilitate the formation of Mn3+ during O–O bond formation. Since all known MnOx systems are electrical insulators, they need to be immobilized on conducting supports to enable efficient electron transport from the catalyst surface to the electrode in the electrocatalytic OER. This 'thwarted' performance of MnOx in electrocatalytic OER prompted us to investigate whether or not its performance can be substantially increased if produced in situ on the surface of metallic manganese nitride. It has been shown lately, that nitrides of iron, cobalt and nickel can act as highly efficient pre-catalysts for OER and HER. [10] In spite of the fact that only a few manganese nitrides exist in the binary phase diagram of Mn−N, the applications of them are rather limited, primarily due to a lack of effective synthetic methods. [11,12] The commonly used solid state techniques require high temperature and favor the formation of multi-phase products.[12,13] Manganese nitrides are typically synthesized by annealing Mn powder in ammonia (NH3) atmosphere at relatively high temperature. [13,14,15] Other procedures include a solvothermal route via a high-temperature and high-pressure method using autoclaves.[15,16] Attaining manganese nitrides from molecular precursors is highly compelling due to the rational access and shape selectivity determined on the molecular level. Up to now only a few protocols on manganese nitrides have been reported using a molecular approach but they gave merely air-sensitive materials. [17,18]

Here we present the novel molecular route to air-stable, reliably scalable and phase pure crystalline manganese nitride (Mn3N2) which displayed an excellent performance as precatalyst in OER with outstanding durability in alkaline media. Mn3N2 was successfully prepared in a straightforward route through ammonolysis of manganocene [(C5H5)2Mn] as a molecular precursor at 700 °C for 12 h using a tube furnace (Scheme 1; see *Supporting Information*). Reproducibility, easy handling, fast production and facile up-scaling are the major advantages in comparison to other synthetic protocols reported for metal nitrides as yet. The as-prepared material was characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) and Rietveld refinement; the reflections could be unambiguously assigned to the pure η-Mn3N2 phase (Figure S1 in *Supporting Information*). The morphology of η-Mn3N2 was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) which showed agglomeration of large, irregular shaped particles (Figures 1a and S4). The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed that the η-Mn3N2 particles were highly crystalline; the resulting selected area diffraction pattern (SAED), extracted from a high-resolution TEM micrograph, revealed the spacing of 0.243 nm and 0.127 nm corresponding to (013) and (123) planes, respectively (Figures 1b and S5). The energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX)

mapping of Mn3N2 confirmed the homogenous distribution of Mn and N in the particles and the phase composition in accordance with the molar ratio derived from the chemical formula (Figures 1c-1d, S3 and Table S1).

**Scheme 1.** Synthesis and crystal structure of Mn3N2 which was electrodeposited (EPD) on the electrode substrate for the OER (green spheres: two-coordinated Mn; chartreuse spheres: five-coordinate Mn; blue spheres: six-coordinated N).

Mn3N2 crystallizes in the tetragonal Al3Os2-type structure in the space group *I*4*/mmm*. [19] Two types of crystallographically non-equivalent Mn positions exist in the structure, the first Mn has two neighboring nitrogen atoms with shorter Mn-N bonds while the second Mn is penta-coordinated to nitrogen atoms, leaving vacant octahedral voids within the structure (detailed descriptions are given in Figure S2 in *Supporting Information*).[19] The comprehensive surface composition of the as-synthesized Mn3N2 was gathered from X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The corresponding photoemission lines of Mn2p, Mn3p and Mn3s are shown in Figures 2 and S6. The Mn2p core level spectrum features two main spin–orbit peaks of 2p3/2 at 641.1 eV and 2p1/2 at 652.7 eV with a distance of 10.8 eV to the 2p1/2 satellite corresponding to a mixture of Mn2+/Mn3+ oxidation states.[20,21] This is also supported by the Mn3s photoemission line with a multiplet splitting distance of 5.3 eV as well as by Mn3p at binding energy of 48.1 eV. [20,21] The presence of Mn3+ is corroborated to surface passivation of Mn3N2 due to an ex-situ transport in air (see Figure S6).

Interestingly, it has been found that the presence of Mn3+ in the structure of manganese oxide is decisive for influencing catalytic activity and in this regard, Mn2O3 materials have been widely studied and proven to enhance catalytic OER activity significantly.[22] For comparison, the Cp2Mn precursor was also oxidized in dry synthetic air to give the highly crystalline manganese (Mn2O3) oxide with the cubic bixbyite-type structure. (Figures S7-S11 in *Supporting Information*). Four-probe resistivity measurements were carried out which confirmed significantly higher charge mobility of Mn3N2 compared to Mn2O3 (Table S2).

The electrocatalytic OER performance was examined using a standard three-electrode cell (see *Supporting Information*) where the Mn3N2 deposited on fluorine doped tin oxide (FTO) via the electrophoretic deposition (EPD) that directly served as working electrodes in aqueous 1 M KOH solution. Figure S12 displays the cyclic voltammogram (CV) of similarly prepared Mn3N2 and Mn2O3. Interestingly, Mn3N2 exhibited strikingly higher catalytic activity in terms of both overpotential and current density compared to Mn2O3. An overpotential as low as 390 mV was achieved at a current density of 10 mAcm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Mn3N2 whereas an overpotential of 470 mV was needed for Mn2O3 to reach the same current density. The Tafel slope (Figure S13) of Mn3N2 was found to be 97 mVdec-1 which was lower compared to the Mn2O3 (108 mVdec-1).

**Figure 1.** (a) SEM micrographs of Mn3N2 particles revealing large particles, (b), TEM image of a particle indicating the crystalline character as shown by SAED in the inset, (c) and (d) depicts the EDX mapping of homogenously distributed Mn (green) and N (blue) in the Mn3N2 particles.

While cycling between 1.12 V to 1.53 V vs RHE, a pair of reversible redox peaks were attained (prior to the OER) for both Mn3N2 as well as for Mn2O3 (Figure S12). This is attributed to the oxidation of Mn2+/Mn3+ to higher oxidation states and is well known for Mn-based materials. [23–26] The chronopotentiometric (CP) responses of both Mn3N2 and Mn2O3 were measured in alkaline OER conditions maintaining a constant current of 1 mAcm-2 and 10 mAcm-2. Remarkably, Mn3N2 was found to be very stable over 3 hours with a constant overpotential of 330 mV (at 1 mAcm-2) and 530 mV (10 mAcm-2). However, Mn2O3 required overpotential of 430 mV to maintain 1 mAcm-2 and showed a constant rise in overpotential within 3 h while maintaining a current of 10 mAcm-2 (Figure S12). The catalytic activity of Mn3N2 vs Mn2O3 were additionally compared to the commercial benchmark RuO2 and IrO2 catalyst on FTO, and Ptwire under exactly the same conditions (Figure S12). Apart from RuO2, all other catalysts exhibited decreasing trends in overpotentials compare to Mn3N2 making it to one of the best catalysts in the series of Mn-based OER catalysts (see Table S3).

**Figure 2.** High-resolution (a) Mn2p and (b) Mn3s XPS spectra of Mn3N2 (see text for details)

As the Mn3N2 manifested as efficient OER catalyst on FTO, we embarked further its catalytic activity on nickel foam (NF) which is currently an attractive choice among electrode substrates. The uniform, three-dimensionally interconnected network structure of the NF has been described as highly macroporous with a high specific surface area and increased electrical conductivity.[27] Consequently, Mn3N2 and Mn2O3 were electrophoretically deposited on NF and investigated for alkaline OER in aqueous 1 M KOH solutions. Figure S14 presents the recorded CV curves of Mn3N2 that displays much higher current density and extremely low overpotential compare to the respective Mn2O3 electrode. Remarkably, the overpotential exhibited at 10 mAcm-2 was merely 270 mV and at 100 mAcm-2, the overpotential was just 390 mV (Figure S14) while the derived Tafel slope was 101 mVdec-1 (Figure S15). The acquired overpotentials here are not only one of the lowest reported for Mn-based catalysts to date but also lower than most of the high performance first-row transition metal based catalysts. Additionally, the mass activity of catalysts were also compared with literature known catalysts (Tables S3, S4 and S5).[28] Furthermore, the commercially available precious metal-based RuOx and IrOx were deposited on NF and measured under similar conditions along with a Pt-wire. Notably, the activity of the Mn3N2 pre-catalyst was outstanding and exceeded those of RuOx, IrOx, and Pt wire (Figure 3a). Again, while cycling between 1.12 V to 1.53 V vs RHE, both Mn3N2 and Mn2O3 displayed a pair of redox peaks prior to oxygen evolution (Figure S14). The peaks appeared in the same potential region as that of FTO and could therefore be well attributed to the oxidation of Mn2+/Mn3+ to higher valencies excluding the possible influence of NF in OER catalysis. [23–26,29] Subsequntly, the long-term stability of Mn3N2 was tested in strongly alkaline OER conditions maintinaing a current of 10 mAcm-2. Unexpectedly, the stability exceeded a week (180 h) with exceptionally sustained overpotentials (~ 290 mV) which makes it the best durable system known among Mn-based OER catalysts (Figure 3b). After CP, a CV was measured again to provide a comparison with the initial CV (Figure S16). Negligible difference in overpotentials and current density was attained at 10 mAcm-2 and at 100 mAcm-2 with only a slight change in the current.

To gain insights into the near-surface structure transformations as well as the morphological alteration to arrive at the actual responsible active centers during the OER catalysis, microscopic, spectroscopic and analytical investigations were performed on both Mn3N2 and Mn2O3 post electrochemical (OER CP) materials (see *Supporting Information*). The respective TEM and HR-TEM images show the formation of an amorphous shell on the surface of the particles evidencing the structural reorganization at the near-surface structure after OER catalysis (Figures 4a and S19). Interestingly, the corrosion was limited only to the surface; the core of the Mn3N2 particles remained unchanged as shown by the lattice planes underneath of the amorphous shell. The reflections in the SAED pattern also confirmed that the core of the particles was intact (Figure S19). In addition, the Fourier transform infrared spectra (FT-IR) exhibited broad bands that are typical for hydroxylation in comparison to the as-prepared Mn3N2 material, where the respective bands were absent (Figure S2).

The XPS of as-prepared Mn3N2 was further compared with the post electrochemical CV (OER CV) to perceive immediate transformation on the surface and after long stability run (OER CP). The Mn2p photoemission lines (Figure 4b) of both post treated samples (OER CV and OER CP) displayed a shift to higher binding energies at ~ 642 eV and ~ 654 eV for Mn2p3/2 and Mn2p1/2, respectively. The distance of the Mn2p1/2 signal to the corresponding satellite changed from the as-synthesized 10.8 eV to 11.4 eV for the OER CV and increased to 11.8 eV for the OER CP. The values obtained here are consistent with the literature values reported for Mn2+/Mn3+ to Mn3+/ Mn4+. [20,21] The Mn3s multiplet splitting and Mn3p also followed a similar trend (Figure S21).[20,21]

**Figure 3.** a) Current-potential curves of similarly prepared Mn3N2 and Mn2O3 with commercial noble based catalysts electrophoretically deposited on NF with a scan rate of 5 mV/s in aqueous 1 M KOH. b) The chronoamperometric durability test of Mn3N2 in aqueous 1 M KOH.

The N1s spectrum exhibited a peak at 396.3 eV for all catalysts (as-prepared, after CV and CP) that can be assigned to elemental nitrogen (Figure S21).[17] The O1s XPS spectra of OER CV and OER CP displayed two peaks, one at ~ 529.7 eV corresponding to formation of metal-oxygen bonds (MnOx) on the surface due to corrosion whereas the second peak at 531.1 eV is largely related to oxyhydroxide/hydroxides (Figure S21). [30] Incidentally, similar modifications can also be observed for Mn2O3 with the formation of amorphous MnOx layers on the surface and no drastic increase in the oxidation state of Mn2O3 occurred after electrochemical OER in comparison to the asprepared material. All related SEM, TEM, SAED, XPS and FT-IR results are presented in the *Supporting Information* (Figures S22-S25).

**Figure 4.** a) HR-TEM image of Mn3N2 particle after OER CP forming a thick layer of amorphous MnOx. b) Comparison of Mn2p XPS spectra of asprepared, after OER CA and OER CP of Mn3N2 depicting Mn oxidization.

Based on the aforementioned results, the exceptional OER activity and remarkable stability of Mn3N2 can be dedicated to the following aspects. Foremost, the distinct crystal structure of Mn3N2 with two and five coordinatively unsaturated Mn undergo rigorous corrosion at the surface of the particles evidencing major structural rearrangement under strongly alkaline media of electrochemical OER. [19] Further, this corrosion leads into an active amorphous MnOx layer at the surface of Mn3N2 particles by oxidizing Mn2+/ Mn3+ to Mn3+/Mn4+. Such Mn3+ (in t2g3eg 1 configuration) assisted by Mn4+ are known to provide Jahn– Teller distorted Mn–O bonds for binding O–O with appropriate strength to felicitates OER and often documented as the real active sites in the literature.[3–7] Moreover, the metallic character of Mn3N2 also functions as a highly conductive layer between the surface of the catalyst and electrode substrate providing faster charge transfer capability by controlling the OER activity, which is rather a notable drawback in the case of merely MnOx-based systems. [31]

#### **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support by the Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung (BMBF cluster project MANGAN). The authors are also indebted to Mr. Christoph Fahrensohn for SEM measurements and Mr. Sören Selve for TEM measurements.

**Keywords:** metal nitrides • conductive materials • corrosion • energy storage • overpotentials •

#### **References**

- [1] H. B. Gray, *Nat. Chem.* **2009**, *1*, 7.
- [2] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, A. Bergmann, P. Chernev, C. Walter, H. Dau, P. Strasser, M. Driess, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 10014.
- [3] A. Indra, P. W. Menezes, I. Zaharieva, E. Baktash, J. Pfrommer, M. Schwarze, H. Dau, M. Driess, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 13206.
- [4] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, P. Littlewood, M. Schwarze, C. Göbel, R. Schomäcker, M. Driess, *ChemSusChem* **2014**, *7*, 2202.
- [5] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, N. R. Sahraie, A. Bergmann, P. Strasser, M. Driess, *ChemSusChem* **2015**, *8*, 164.
- [6] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, P. Littlewood, C. Göbel, R. Schomäcker, M. Driess, *ChemPlusChem* **2016**, *81*, 370.
- [7] A. Indra, P. W. Menezes, C. Das, D. Schmeißer, M. Driess, *Chem. Commun.* **2017**, *53*, 8641.
- [8] a) D. M. Robinson, Y. B. Go, M. Mui, G. Gardner, Z. Zhang, D. Mastrogiovanni, E. Garfunkel, J. Li, M. Greenblatt, G. C. Dismukes, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 3494; b) C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16977; c) J. Masa, W. Xia, I. Sinev, A. Zhao, Z. Sun, S. Grutzke, P. Weide, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 8508; d) P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, V. Gutkin, M. Driess, *Chem. Commun.* **2017**, *53*, 8018.

- [9] a) D. Shevchenko, M. F. Anderlund, S. Styring, H. Dau, I. Zaharieva, A. Thapper, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 11965; b) H. Dau, I. Zaharieva, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2009**, *42*, 1861; c) M. Huynh, C. Shi, Billinge, Simon J. L., D. G. Nocera, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14887; d) K. Rajiv, J. Rajni, *Spectrochim. Acta Mol. Biomol. Spectrosc.* **2011**, *79*, 1042; e) A. Bergmann, I. Zaharieva, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 2745; f) M. M. Najafpour, A. N. Moghaddam, H. Dau, I. Zaharieva, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 7245; g) F. Zhou, A. Izgorodin, R. K. Hocking, L. Spiccia, D. R. MacFarlane, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2012**, *2*, 1013; h) C. E. Frey, F. Kwok, D. Gonzáles-Flores, J. Ohms, K. A. Cooley, H. Dau, I. Zaharieva, T. N. Walter, H. Simchi, S. E. Mohney, P Kurz, *Sustainable Energy Fuels* **2017**, *1*, 1162; i) M. Mahdi Najafpour, D. Jafarian Sedigh, S. Maedeh Hosseini, I. Zaharieva, *Inorg. Chem.* **2016**, *55*, 8827.
- [10] a) K. Xu, P. Chen, X. Li, Y. Tong, H. Ding, X. Wu, W. Chu, Z. Peng, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 4119; b) M. Shalom, D. Ressnig, X. Yang, G. Clavel, T. P. Fellinger, M. Antonietti, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 8171; c) Y. Zhang, B. Ouyang, J. Xu, G. Jia, S. Chen, R. S. Rawat, H. J. Fan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 8670; d) F. Yu, H. Zhou, Z. Zhu, J. Sun, R. He, J. Bao, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 2052.
- [11] a) R. Niewa, F.J. DiSalvo, D.-K. Yang, D.B. Zax, H. Luo, W.B. Yelon, *J. Alloys Compd.* **1998**, *266*, 32; b) X. Song, Z. Sun, Q. Huang, M. Rettenmayr, X. Liu, M. Seyring, G. Li, G. Rao, F. Yin, *Adv. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 4690; c) J. B. Gosk, M. Drygaś, J. F. Janik, M. Palczewska, R. T. Paine, A. Twardowski, *J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys.* **2006**, *39*, 3717.
- [12] N. A. Gokcen, *Bull. Alloy Phase Diagr.* **1990**, *11*, 33.
- [13] M. D. Lyutaya, A. B. Goncharuk, *Soviet Powder Metall. Met. Ceram.* **1977**, *16*, 208.
- [14] a) A. D. Mah, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1958**, *80*, 2954; b) W. J. Feng, N. K. Sun, J. Du, Q. Zhang, X. G. Liu, Y. F. Deng, Z. D. Zhang, *Solid State Commun.* **2008**, *148*, 199; c) J.-W. Huang, J. Li, H. Peng, *Powder Metall.* **2013**, *50*, 137.
- [15] G. Kreiner, H. Jacobs, *J. Alloys Compd.* **1992**, *183*, 345.
- [16] a) J. Choi, E. G. Gillan, *Inorg. Chem.* **2009**, *48*, 4470; b) S. I. U. Shah, A. L. Hector, X. Li, J. R. Owen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 3612.
- [17] T. S. Spicer, C. W. Spicer, A. N. Cloud, L. M. Davis, G. S. Girolami, J. R. Abelson, *J. Vac. Sci. Technol.* **2013**, *31*, 30604.
- [18] M. Drygaś, M. M. Bućko, M. Musiał, J. F. Janik, *J. Mater. Sci.* **2016**, *51*, 8177.
- [19] H. Jacobs, C. Stüve, *J. Less Common Metals* **1984**, *96*, 323.
- [20] A. A. Audi, P. M. A. Sherwood, *Surf. Interface Anal.* **2002**, *33*, 274.
- [21] M. Oku, K. Hirokawa, S. Ikeda, *J. Electron. Spectrosc. Relat. Phenom.* **1975**, *7*, 465.
- [22] U. Maitra, B. S. Naidu, A. Govindaraj, C. N. R. Rao, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.* **2013**, *110*, 11704.
- [23] I. Zaharieva, P. Chernev, M. Risch, K. Klingan, M. Kohlhoff, A. Fischer, H. Dau, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 7081.
- [24] M. M. Najafpour, F. Rahimi, M. Fathollahzadeh, B. Haghighi, M.
- Holynska, T. Tomo, S. I. Allakhverdiev, *Dalton Trans.* **2014**, *43*, 10866. [25] M. Kölbach, S. Fiechter, R. van de Krol, P. Bogdanoff, *Catal. Today*
- **2017**, *290*, 2.
- [26] M. M. Najafpour, S. Salimi, R. Safdari, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2017**, *42*, 255.
- [27] X. Lu, C. Zhao, *Nature Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6616.
- [28] a) L. Trotochaud, J. K. Ranney, K. N. Williams, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 17253; b) M. B. Stevens, L. J. Enman, A. S. Batchellor, M. R. Cosby, A. E. Vise, C. D. M. Trang, S. W. Boettcher, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 120.
- [29] M. M. Najafpour, B. Haghighi, M. Z. Ghobadi, D. J. Sedigh, *Chem. Commun.* **2013**, *49*, 8824.
- [30] V. M. Jiménez, A. Fernández, J. P. Espinós, A. R. González-Elipe, *J. Electron. Spectrosc. Relat. Phenom.* **1995**, *71*, 61.
- [31] a) R. N. de Guzman, A. Awaluddin, Y.-F. Shen, Z. R. Tian, S. L. Suib, S. Ching, C.-L. O'Young, *Chem. Mater.* **1995**, *7*, 1286; b) R. Yu, X. Chong, Y. Jiang, R. Zhou, W. Yuan, J. Feng, *RSC Adv.* **2015**, *5*, 1620.

**COMMUNICATION**

### COMMUNICATION

**Better late than never**: A versatile molecular route has been achieved to produce manganese nitride as a suitable high -performance material for the electrocatalytic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in alkaline media. The coordinatively unsaturated nature of manganese, the active amorphous surface layer as well as the metallic character in manganese nitride pre -catalyst are identified as key factors for the outstanding catalytic performance with high durability.

*Carsten Walter, Prashanth W. Menezes, Steven Orthmann, Jona Schuch, Paula Connor, Bernhard Kaiser, Martin Lerch, and Matthias Driess\**

*Page No. – Page No.*

**A Molecular Approach to Manganese Nitride Acting as a High Performance Electrocatalyst in the Oxygen Evolution Reaction**