---
source: Wang 等 - 2025 - Interfacial Built‐In Electric Field and Interatomic Charge Transfer Synergistically Boosting Oxygen.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 50.633s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:11:06.399814Z
---

# **Interfacial Built-In Electric Field and Interatomic Charge Transfer Synergistically Boosting Oxygen Evolution on CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 Electrocatalyst**

*Ling-Xian Wang, Cheng-Zong Yuan,\* Cong-Hui Li, Yu-Ru Zhang, Fuling Wu, Lei Xin, Zheping Wang, Huan Yang, Xianxian Shi,\* Xiaomeng Zhang,\* Kwun Nam Hui, Shufeng Ye, and Yunfa Chen*

**Boosting oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performances of transition metal-based electrocatalysts via charge localization regulation is an effective strategy to reduce the cost of hydrogen production through water electrolysis, but still remains great challenging. Herein, a CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 OER electrocatalyst decorated with CeO2 nanoparticles and Ce single atoms has been fabricated using one deposition and calcination method. The as-obtained heterojunction structure of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 triggers interfacial built-in electric field and as-introduced Ce single atoms induce the charge transfer in Co-O-Ce configurations, thus tremendously tuning the electron localization of the Co sites. As expected, the CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 catalyst exhibits superior performances toward OER in alkaline condition, achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at an overpotential of only 216 mV, and demonstrating outstanding long-term stability for 100 h. Density functional theory and in-situ spectroscopic results confirm that the co-existence of heterojunction structure and single atom doping can contribute to electron localization and d band centers upshift of Co sites, thereby leading to the increased adsorption energy, lowered reaction barrier, and more proportion of lattice oxygen mechanism pathway. This work reveals the application and perspective of regulating spinel electronic structures via interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer for large-scale OER applications.**

**1. Introduction**

Hydrogen with high calorific value and environmental cleanliness features has been regarded as an effective alternative to fossil fuels in the 21st century.[\[1,2\]](#page-9-0) Electrocatalytic water electrolysis involving the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) at the cathode and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the anode is the green and efficient technology for hydrogen production. Compared to the cathodic HER, the anodic OER presents slow kinetics and high energy barriers because of its four-electron transfer process, making it the "bottleneck" reaction in water decomposition.[\[3–5\]](#page-9-0) Sequentially, developing efficient catalysts is promising to address the slow kinetics of the OER. Currently, noble metal-based catalysts, such as ruthenium (Ru) and iridium (Ir), exhibit excellent activity, but their widespread is restricted by high cost and scarcity.[\[6,7\]](#page-9-0) Therefore, preparing low-cost, high-activity, and stable OER electrocatalysts is crucial for reducing costs and enabling the large-scale application of hydrogen production from water electrolysis.[\[8–10\]](#page-9-0)

Among various materials, spinel structures have garnered significant attention in the realm of electrocatalytic OER reaction, owing to their abundance,

cost-effectiveness, straightforward material composition, intrinsic remarkable redox capacity, and robust structural stability.[\[11,12\]](#page-10-0) However, under alkaline conditions, spinel structure catalysts still face significant challenges, such as insufficient exposure of

L.-X. Wang, C.-Z. Yuan, C.-H. Li, Y.-R. Zhang, F. Wu, L. Xin, Z. Wang, H. Yang, X. Zhang School of Rare Earths University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China E-mail: [czyuan@mail.ustc.edu.cn;](mailto:czyuan@mail.ustc.edu.cn) [xmzhang@gia.cas.cn](mailto:xmzhang@gia.cas.cn)

L.-X. Wang, C.-Z. Yuan, C.-H. Li, Y.-R. Zhang, F. Wu, L. Xin, Z. Wang, H. Yang, X. Zhang

Ganjiang Innovation Academy Chinese Academy of Sciences Ganzhou 341119, China

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202502122>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202502122**

X. Shi

College of Aerospace Science and Engineering National University of Defense Technology

Changsha 410073, China E-mail: [shixx23@nudt.edu.cn](mailto:shixx23@nudt.edu.cn)

K. N. Hui

Joint Key Laboratory of the Ministry of Education, Institute of Applied Physics and Materials Engineering

University of Macau, Avenida da Universidade

Taipa, Macau SAR, China

X. Zhang, S. Ye, Y. Chen State Key Laboratory of Multiphase Complex Systems, Institute of Process

Engineering Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing 100190, China

www.afm-journal.de

active sites, diminished intrinsic conductivity, and low electron transport efficiency. [13,14] This indicates that to achieve large-scale applications of spinel structure OER electrocatalysts, it is necessary to tailor their electronic structures to further improve their activity and stability. To meet these challenges, numerous experiments and theoretical studies have been performed and uncovered that defect engineering, [15] single-atom engineering, [16] heterostructures, [17] as well as morphology regulation [18] are effective strategies for enhancing the activity and stability of spinel catalysts. For example, Bhaumik's group synthesized spinel-type Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalyst with different morphologies by changing the reaction conditions. Among them, the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> with nanoparticle morphology exhibited the best OER catalytic performance, requiring an overpotential of 296 mV to achieve current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.[19] In addition, single-atom engineering can adjust the electronic structures of metal atoms in spinel-type catalysts due to electron redistribution, thus optimizing the adsorption of intermediates and improving the kinetics during the OER reaction. For instance, Cao et al. reported that the doping of tantalum (Ta) atoms into the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> framework can greatly boost the electrocatalytic OER performances with an overpotential of 378 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and good stability for over 140 h,<sup>[20]</sup> which is due to that Ta atoms could contribute to one active and protective Co<sup>2+</sup> enriched surface. Despite enhanced performances by single-atom engineering, the synthesis of single atom catalysts is relatively difficult, as they tend to form clusters or nanoparticles during the preparation and application process. Additionally, developing heterostructure catalysts represents another strategic approach to enhance the OER performance of spinel catalysts, which is generated from the synergistic effect and interfacial built-in electric field. For instance, Guo et al. successfully constructed a CeO<sub>2</sub>@CoSe<sub>2</sub>/CC heterostructure catalyst, achieving a low overpotential of 245 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under alkaline conditions.<sup>[21]</sup> In the heterostructure, the CeO<sub>2</sub> has abundant oxygen vacancies that facilitate the adsorption of OH- and promote the conversion of CoSe<sub>2</sub> to CoOOH at lower potentials. The in-situ generated active CeO<sub>2</sub>@CoOOH heterojunction interface raises the d-band center of Co sites, thereby reducing the free energy of the rate-determining step (RDS) (from \*O to \*OOH) in the OER process. It follows that single-atom engineering and heterostructure formation are effective pathways for modulating the electronic structure of spinel catalysts to enhance OER performance, however, constructing well-designed heterojunction catalysts requires complex synthesis steps and precise composition control. Additionally, enhancing the conductivity and durability of hetero-structured catalysts also remains challenging. Until now, there are few studies on the simultaneous integration of these two approaches and the unified understanding of synergistic effects on catalyst performances.

Recently, rare earth elements (RE) with multiple electrons, high energy levels, and significant radii, have become attractive regulators for modulating the OER electronic structure of spinel catalysts. [22,23] Wang et al. reported a strategy for regulating the oxidation and reduction pathways of lattice oxygen in spinel oxides through rare earth substitution, thereby altering the reaction mechanism of nickel-cobalt spinel oxides during OER. [24] Using NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> as a model, Ce-O-M (where M represents Ni or Co) bridges have been constructed by introducing rare earth element Ce into the octahedral sites of the spinel structure. This Ce

incorporation leads to a redistribution of charge within  $\operatorname{NiCo_2O_4}$ , enhancing the electronic donation capability of the Ce site to the coordinated lattice oxygen, resulting in a favorable lattice oxygen mechanism (LOM) pathway over  $\operatorname{Ce-NiCo_2O_4}$ . Thanks to the presence of Ce in  $\operatorname{NiCo_2O_4}$ , the overpotential of 270 mV is required to achieve the current density of  $10~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$ , however, the complexity of the synthesis method and inferior stability poses challenges for large-scale application. Takeshi Matsuda's group reported that strong electronic correlation<sup>[25]</sup> and the dissolution of balanced elements<sup>[26]</sup> are crucial to boost OER stability under extreme conditions. Therefore, developing facile strategies to synthesize well-designed spinel-type catalysts modified with heterostructures and RE single atoms represents an effective approach to enhance the OER activity and stability, but that still in its infancy.

In light of the above conclusions, Ce element with costeffective and abundant features has been selected in this work to fabricate the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> as OER catalysts via one facile approach, which is characterized by the simultaneous presence of Ce single-atom and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> heterojunctions. Consequently, the heterojunction structure triggers interfacial built-in electric field and the introduction of Ce single-atom disrupts the original Co-O-Co equilibrium, leading to the formation of asymmetric Co-O-Ce configurations. The interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> modifies the electron redistribution of Co sites, thereby tuning its d band center and optimizing the adsorption of oxygen-containing intermediates during OER. As expected, the synthesized CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> showed remarkable electrochemical performance for OER under 1 M KOH alkaline conditions, achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an overpotential of only 216 mV, surpassing the performances of most spinel-structured and noble-metalbased catalysts previously reported. Additionally, the CeO2/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalyst exhibited excellent stability for ≈100 h at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In situ differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) analysis indicates that both Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> predominantly follow the conventional adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM); however, the latter exhibits an increased contribution from the LOM thanks to tuned d band center and adsorption ability. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further suggest that CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> possesses reduced energy barrier of the RDS, resulting in activity enhancement of the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. This research advances a novel coregulation approach of the electronic structure of spinel-type catalysts through the incorporation of single atoms and heterojunctions to improve OER performances.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The well-designed  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  and pure  $Co_3O_4$  spinel electrocatalysts were successfully fabricated by a one-step electrode-position and calcination method as shown in **Figure 1a**. Briefly, the clean carbon cloth (1 \* 2 cm²) was used as a substrate material and the solution of  $Ce(NO_3)_3$ ,  $Co(NO_3)_2$  was used as electrolyte for preparing  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$ . An electrodeposition strategy was employed to prepare  $Ce-Co(OH)_2$  precursors, followed by calcinating in the air to form the  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  electrocatalyst. In contrast, pure  $Co_3O_4$  was also prepared using a similar method, except that Ce source was not added to the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic of the synthesis process of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and Co3O4. b) XRD patterns. c) Raman spectra. d) SEM and e) TEM, f) HRTEM, and selected area electron diffraction image of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4. g) HAADF-STEM image of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and corresponding EDS elemental mappings of Co, O, Ce. h,i) HAADF-STEM image. j) 3D atomic overlapping Gaussian function fitting mapping and k) the profiles of the fast Fourier transform (IFFT) of the selected area in i).

electrolyte. The elemental composition of the as-prepared electrocatalysts was analyzed using inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) and the results were shown in Table S1 (Supporting Information), in which the mass fraction of Ce in CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 was calculated to be 18.26%. The crystal structures of the samples were subsequently analyzed by Xray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Figure 1b and Figures S1–S3 (Supporting Information), the obvious diffraction peak at 26.5° was assigned to the carbon cloth, and CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and Co3O4 showed the same spinel-type structure without the prominent www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

1616392, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.20250212 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

appearance of peaks related to CeO2. Notably, the characteristic diffraction peaks of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> slightly shift to lower angles compared to those of pure Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, suggesting the lattice expansion of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> due to the doping of Ce with larger atomic radii.[27,28] In addition, when the amount of Ce is further increased, CeO2 can be detected by XRD as shown in Figure S3 (Supporting Information). In order to precisely reveal the crystal structure of the catalysts, Raman tests were performed. As shown in Figure 1c, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> spinel exhibits five medium Raman activity modes (A<sub>1 g</sub>, E<sub>g</sub>, and three F<sub>2 g</sub> modes), and the Raman characteristic peaks of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> are almost the same as those of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, but shift to the high-frequency region. It should be noted that the shift of the  $A_{1\ g}$  (687 cm $^{-1}$ ) band to the high-frequency region is more pronounced than that of the  $F_{2g}$  (194 cm<sup>-1</sup>) band, inferring that Ce atoms preferentially occupy the octahedral sites rather than the tetrahedral sites.<sup>[29,30]</sup> In addition, the peak intensities of the  $A_{1g}/F_{2g}$  bands of  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  are also lower compared to those of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, which also suggests that the Co atoms in the octahedral sites have been replaced by Ce.[31]

The morphology of the obtained electrocatalysts was investigated by using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). As shown in Figure 1d and Figure S4 (Supporting Information), both CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> are composed of nanosheets, which is consistent with the TEM results (Figure 1e; Figure S5, Supporting Information). This structure is able to expose more active sites and improve the catalytic performance. The HRTEM image of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> in Figure 1f shows a clear lattice spacing of 0.293 nm ascribed to the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (220) facets, which is slightly larger compared to the standard lattice spacing of 0.285 nm in Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The lattice expansion agrees well with the XRD result and further confirms the incorporation of large-sized Ce atoms. In addition, the scanning TEM (STEM) image and its corresponding elemental mapping (Figure 1g) show that the Ce distribution, also indicating that Ce atoms are doped into Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The precise atomic arrangement of Ce in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> was captured from the high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) images (Figure 1h,i), where CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles with lattice spacing of 0.313 nm corresponding to its (111) face are observed. Moreover, the bright dots marked by red circles in Figure 1g,i demonstrate the presence of monodispersed Ce single atoms in the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The brightness of Ce atoms is more intense than that of the neighboring Co atoms due to the higher Z value. To further observe the distribution of Ce atoms, the 3D atomic overlapping Gaussian function fitting mapping (Figure 1j) and the profiles of the fast Fourier transform (IFFT) (Figure 1k) of the selected area in HAADF-STEM image were taken out, which also verifies the dispersion of isolated Ce atoms. These above characterization results definitely demonstrate that the as-synthesized electrocatalyst is decorated with both singleatom Ce and CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles, which can subsequently trigger the interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer effect in the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to investigate the surface chemical state and composition of the electrocatalysts. Figure S6 (Supporting Information) shows the XPS survey spectra of  $\text{CeO}_2/\text{Ce-Co}_3\text{O}_4$  and  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$ , in which the Ce, Co, and O elements can be detected in  $\text{CeO}_2/\text{Ce-Co}_3\text{O}_4$ . The high-resolution O 1s XPS spectra of  $\text{CeO}_2/\text{Ce-Co}_3\text{O}_4$  and  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$  in Figure 2a ex-

hibit three characteristic peaks located at 529.8, 531.6, and 533.6, which correspond to the lattice oxygen (O1), oxygen vacancies (O<sub>V</sub>), and the surface adsorbed hydroxyl species (OH<sub>ad</sub>), respectively. Importantly, the ratio of surface O<sub>V</sub> and O<sub>L</sub> significantly increases after Ce incorporation, implying that Ce atoms incorporation inspires more oxygen vacancy defects. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra further revealed the number of oxygen vacancies increased after Ce atoms were introduced (Figure S7, Supporting Information). It is usually considered that H<sub>2</sub>O could be preferentially adsorbed at O<sub>V</sub> of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> due to the reduction of spatial site resistance, leading to enhanced OER performances.<sup>[33]</sup> Figure 2b shows the Co 2p XPS spectra, where the peaks at 780.5 and 796.1 eV were assigned to Co3+ and Co<sup>2+</sup>, respectively.<sup>[34]</sup> Meanwhile, the ratio of Co<sup>3+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup> in CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 markedly decreases, indicating that the Ce atoms occupy the octahedral sites in Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and confirming the electron transfer from Ce to Co via the Ce-O-Co configuration.[35] In the Ce 3d XPS spectrum of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Figure 2c), three peaks at 882.8, 898.7, and 917.1 eV attributed to Ce<sup>4+</sup> are observed and the two peaks at 885.7, and 901.3 eV are attributed to Ce<sup>3+</sup>, suggesting that Ce atoms exhibit multivalent states.[21,24]

The detailed electronic structures and coordination environments of Ce and Co sites in CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 were further determined by X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray adsorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopic studies. The Ce L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES spectra of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 2d) display that the absorption edge position of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is located at a higher energy compared with that of standard CeO2, suggesting that the valence state of Ce in  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  is slightly higher than  $Ce^{4+}$  in  $CeO_2$ . [24] The Fourier transform EXAFS (FTEXAFS) spectra in Figure 2e demonstrate that the peak at 1.8 Å in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is attributed to the Ce-O bonding, similar to that of CeO<sub>2</sub>. Furthermore, the absence of a second layer peak near 3.6 Å in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> confirms the atomic distribution of Ce sites on Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, which is consistent with the results of the Ce K-edge wavelet transform (Figure 2f; Figure S8, Supporting Information).[24,36] The XANES spectra analysis on Co K-edge of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> shows a spectral pattern similar to that of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, but a slight decrease in the absorption energy (Figure 2g) suggests that the average oxidation state of Co atoms in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is lower, consistent with the Raman and XPS results. Figure 2h shows the FTEXAFS spectra at the Co K-edge, indicating three spectral peaks located at 1.56, 2.45, and 2.91 Å, corresponding to Co-O, Co<sub>oct</sub> -Co<sub>oct</sub>/ Ce<sub>oct</sub>, and Co<sub>oct</sub>-Co<sub>tet</sub>, respectively. [14,30,37] It can be clearly noticed that Ce atoms lead to a slight decrease in the strength of the Co-O bond, which suggests that the first Co-O shell is affected by the introduction of Ce atoms but maintains a relatively suitable crystal structure.[37-39] In addition, the Co<sub>oct</sub> -Co<sub>oct</sub> bond length increases, which is attributed to the preferential substitution of Ce for the Co<sub>oct</sub> position in the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> spinel structure.[37] Identically, the wavelet transform of the EX-AFS analysis on the Co K-edge of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalysts can observe strong Co-O signal, which differs from the Co-O contribution in Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Figure 2i; Figures S9 and S10, Supporting Information). Therefore, it can be concluded that the Ce species exist both as single atoms and nanoparticles in the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> according to advanced electronic microscopy and spectroscopic techniques.

1616932, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://advanced.onineliblary.wilej.co.ordoi/0.1002/atmf.20250212 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library of [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or 1001/10205).

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 2. a) O 1s XPS spectra and b) Co 2p XPS spectra of  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  and  $Co_3O_4$ . c) Ce 3d XPS spectrum of  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$ . d) Ce  $L_2$ -edge XANES spectra of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and CeO2. The inset of the panel shows the change in the adsorption energy edge. e) EXAFS spectra for CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and CeO<sub>2</sub> f) Wavelet-transformed EXAFS spectra of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> at Ce K-edge. g) Co L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES spectra of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and Co foil. The inset of the panel shows the change in the adsorption energy edge. h) EXAFS spectra of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Co foil. i) Corresponding wavelet-transformed EXAFS spectra of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> at Co K-edge.

The electrocatalytic OER performances of the resultant catalysts were evaluated using a typical three-electrode system in 1 M KOH electrolyte to understand the relationship of structure and electrocatalytic activity. First, the OER linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves of catalysts with different Ce contents (Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>(0%), Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>(5%), CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>(10%), CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>(15%)) were taken out with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and the results are shown in Figure S11 (Supporting Information). the pure Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> exhibited relatively poor OER activity, requiring an overpotential of 306 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> ( $\eta_{10}$ ), while significant improvement is observed in all catalysts after Ce regulating. As shown in Figure 3a, the CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 exhibits the best OER performances, requiring overpotential of only 216 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 309 mV to achieve a current density of 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  ( $\eta_{50}$ ), which was much lower than that of Ce-Co $_3$ O $_4$  $(\eta_{10} = 275 \text{ mV} \text{ and } \eta_{50} = 330 \text{ mV}) \text{ and } \text{Co}_3\text{O}_4 \ (\eta_{10} = 306 \text{ mV})$ 

and  $\eta_{50}$  = 383 mV), and even better than those of commercial  $IrO_2$  ( $\eta_{10}=323$  mV and  $\eta_{50}=428$  mV). In addition,  $CeO_2/Ce$ - $Co_3O_4$  exhibits a low Tafel slope of 87.6 mV  $dec^{-1}$  as shown in Figure 3b, which is significantly lower than that of Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>  $(108.9 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ ,  $Co_3O_4$   $(147.3 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$  and commercial  $IrO_2$ (186.9 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating its rapid reaction kinetics. The overpotential comparison results at 10 and 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in Figure 3c clearly confirm that CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 OER electrocatalysts synergistically decorated with CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Ce single atoms possesses optimum performances, which proves the boosting effect of the interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer. The turnover frequency (TOF) was used to evaluate the intrinsic catalytic activity of active sites, and as shown in Figure 3d, the TOF of  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  (16.77 ×  $10^{-4}$  s<sup>-1</sup>) is much higher than that of  $Co_3O_4$  (4.19 ×  $10^{-4}$  s<sup>-1</sup>), further indicating that boosting effect from the interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Alkaline OER performances of electrocatalysts. a) LSV curves, b) Tafel slope plots and c) overpotentials at 10, 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4, Co3O4, Ce-Co3O4, and IrO2 in 1.0 M KOH. d) TOF values, e) Electrochemical double-layer capacity (Cdl), (f) polarization curves normalized by ECSA, g) activation energies plots and h) the comprehensive comparison of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and Co3O4. i) The stability test of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4.

To elucidate the intrinsic activity of the samples, the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was evaluated by electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) (Figure 3e; Figure S12, Supporting Information). The Cdl of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 is calculated to be 14.49 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, significantly higher than that of Co3O4 (7.58 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), indicating increasement of intrinsic active sites of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4. In addition, the LSV curves normalized by using ECSA can also indicate the enhanced intrinsic catalytic activity of the CeO2/Ce-Co3O4, as shown in Figure 3f and Figure S13 (Supporting Information). It is also noteworthy that the catalytic activity of both CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and Co3O4 is enhanced with increasing temperature (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The apparent activation energy (Eapp) and the apparent pre-factor (Aapp) values of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and Co3O4 at a constant voltage of 1.55 V (versus RHE) were calculated via the Arrhenius equation. According to Figure 3g, it can be seen that the Eapp of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 is 11.30 KJ/mol, much smaller than that of Co3O4 (24.64 KJ/mol), which further proves that reduced barrier during the reaction of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 thanks to coexistence of CeO2 nanoparticles and Ce single atoms. The charge transfer resistance at the catalyst-electrolyte interface was evaluated using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). In the fitted Nyquist plot (Figure S15, Supporting Information), CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 exhibits the smaller charge transfer resistance (2.89 ohm) compared to Co3O4 (3.28 ohm), which reveals the fast charge transfer and reaction rate. As can be seen from the radargrams displayed in Figure 3h, CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 exhibits superior alkaline OER performance to Co3O4 in terms of 10, Tafel slope, TOF, Eapp and Cdl. The stability test in Figure 3i show that the CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 has excellent long-term durability at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with decay of 53 mV. As shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information), CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 retains 70.1% current density even after 97 h at 1.45 V (versus RHE). We also measured the dissolved metal content (Ce, Co) in electrolytes

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** LSV curves of a) Co3O4 and b) CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 in KOH at pH = 12.5, 13.0, 13.5 and 14.0. c) Current density of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 and Co3O4 as a function of pH at 1.55 V (versus RHE). d) Comparison of LSV curves of Co3O4 e) CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 in KOH and TMAOH solution. DEMS tests at potentials of 1.0-2.0 V (versus RHE) for (f) Co3O4 and g) CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 in H2 18O labeled 1 M KOH. h) Ratio of 34O2/32O2 for Co3O4 and CeO2/Ce-Co3O4. i) AEM and LOM paths of the OER on the electrocatalyst.

after the reaction to explore the stability. The ICP-OES results indicate that the addition of Ce atoms can effectively prevent the leaching of Co and thus enhance the structural stability of Co3O4 (Table S2, Supporting Information).[\[16,40\]](#page-10-0) In addition, XRD, SEM and XPS tests were further performed to explore the durability of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4. From Figure S17 (Supporting Information), it can be found that the spinel structure is well maintained without major changes in the XRD patterns after the long-term stability test. The laminated nanosheet structure of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 remains after OER proved by the SEM image in Figure S18 (Supporting Information). Analysis of the XPS (Figures S19–S21, Supporting Information) manifests that the binding energies of Co and Ce slightly shift to high energy. The ratio of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co2<sup>+</sup> undergoes an increase compared with before OER, which is attributed to the fact that the Ce element can effectively prevent the dissolution of Co even after oxidation, thus ensuring the long-term stability of the OER.[\[16\]](#page-10-0) Interestingly, the proportion of Ov in O 1s spectrum greatly increases, which suggests the probable generation of some intermediates via LOM pathway during the OER process over the CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 catalyst.[\[16\]](#page-10-0)

In order to uncover the boosting effect from the coexistence of CeO2 nanoparticles and Ce single atoms on OER activity, the catalytic mechanism over Co3O4 and CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 was explored. LSV tests in different pH solutions were first performed, which exhibited a significant change in the activity of both Co3O4 and CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 from pH = 14.0 to pH = 12.5. The results indicate both Co3O4 and CeO2/Ce- Co3O4 possess pH dependence in the basic OER activity (**Figure 4**a,b), and the pH dependence of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 is stronger compared to Co3O4 (Figure 4c). The pH-dependent behavior of Co3O4 and CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 in the OER reaction can indicate the presence of non-synergistic proton-electron transport processes during LOM pathway.[\[41,42\]](#page-10-0)

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. Magnetic hysteresis loop of  $Co_3O_4$  a) and  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$  b) at 10K and 300K. Bader charge images of c)  $Co_3O_4$  and d)  $Ce-Co_3O_4$ . e) Differential charge density analysis of  $CeO_2/Ce-Co_3O_4$ . The purple and cyan areas represent gained and lost electrons, respectively. f) Total DOS and PDOS images and g) the d-band center of  $Co_3O_4$  and  $Ce-Co_3O_4$ . h) Adsorption energy of \*OH, \*O, and \*OOH on  $Co_3O_4$  and  $Ce-Co_3O_4$ . i) Gibbs free energy diagrams of  $Co_3O_4$  and  $Ce-Co_3O_4$ .

Based on previous studies, it is believed that the peroxide species (\*O<sub>2</sub><sup>2-</sup>) is a reaction intermediate in the LOM pathway and that \*O<sub>2</sub><sup>2-</sup> can interact with tetramethylammonium (TMA<sup>+</sup>), leading to a decrease in the kinetics of the OER through the LOM.[16,24,43] Therefore, the LSV tests were carried out in KOH and TMAOH (Figure 4d,e) to further determine the presence of the LOM pathway in the OER reaction. The LSV curves of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> in electrolyte with TMAOH present higher overpotentials and thus, it is inferred that both Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> undergo LOM pathways during the OER. In situ DEMS and isotopic labeling experiments were employed to further investigate reaction pathways. The DEMS results in Figure 4f,g indicate that signals for  $^{32}O_2$  ( $^{16}O^{16}O$ ) and  $^{34}O_2$  ( $^{18}O^{16}O$ ) can be observed over both Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalysts, while no signal for <sup>36</sup>O<sub>2</sub>(<sup>18</sup>O<sup>18</sup>O) was detected, certifying the co-existence of AEM and LOM. Notably, the ratio of <sup>34</sup>O<sub>2</sub> and <sup>32</sup>O<sub>2</sub> in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is significantly higher compared to that in Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Figure 4h), confirming that its more favorable LOM pathway due to tuned adsorption ability of Co sites by CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Ce single atoms in the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. [44,45] The above results certify that oxygen evolution follows both AEM and LOM pathways as shown in Figure 4i, and the AEM is prominent.

To theoretically explore the synergistic impact of the CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Ce single atoms on the electronic structures and catalytic performances of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, magnetic hysteresis loop measurements and density functional theory (DFT) calculations were conducted. **Figure 5a**,b show the magnetic hysteresis (M-H) loop of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> at 10 K and 300 K. The Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> at 300K presents almost linear curve without any remanent magnetization, signifying its paramagnetic-like behavior.<sup>[46]</sup> Conversely, CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> shows one obvious hysteresis loop with a remanent magnetization when the applied magnetic field is 0 Oe, which suggests its ferromagnetic feature with unpaired electrons at 10 and 300 K.<sup>[47]</sup> The M-H

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) The boosting mechanism diagram of interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer in the as-prepared CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 electrocatalyst. b) The hydrogen production system using CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 as OER catalyst powered by solar cell. LSV polarization curves of c) CeO2/Ce-NixOy and d) CeO2/Ce-MnxOy.

loop and EPR spectra jointly indicate that the introduction of Ce leads to more unpaired electrons of Co sites in CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 due the interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer.[\[44,47\]](#page-10-0) Besides, DFT calculations were performed to theoretically understand the electron transfer. According to the HRTEM image, the optimized structures with (220) crystal plane of Co3O4, Ce-Co3O4, and CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 are shown in Figure S22 (Supporting Information). The Bader charges of Co3O4 and Ce-Co3O4 are clearly shown in Figure [5c,d,](#page-7-0) from which it is evident that the Ce single atoms break the equilibrium electron distribution in the Co-O-Co and leading to electron transfer via the Co-O-Ce configurations due to the smaller electronegativity of Ce. Furthermore, the formation of a built-in electric field between CeO2 and Ce-Co3O4 could accelerate the transfer of more electrons. As a result, the charge of the specific Co atom adjacent to Ce changes from −1.29 eV (Co3O4) to −1.27 eV (Ce-Co3O4) and further to −0.85 eV (CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 Figure S23, Supporting Information), suggesting electron localization around Co atom, which is in good agreement with XPS and XANES analyses. The differential charge density image of CeO2/Ce-Co3O4 (Figure [5e\)](#page-7-0) further illustrates the electron transfer due to the interfacial built-in electric field. The density of states (DOS) of Co3O4 and Ce-Co3O4 was calculated to investigate the electronic structure, as illustrated in Figure [5f.](#page-7-0) It is evident that the Ce-Co3O4 structure exhibits a smaller band gap, implying more excellent electron transfer capabilities. Notably, Ce-Co3O4 demonstrates a higher density of states near the Fermi level compared to Co3O4, attributed to the contribution of Ce atoms, which could also suggest enhanced electronic conductivity.[\[43,48\]](#page-10-0) Figure [5g](#page-7-0) presents the calculated d-band centers of surface Co active sites in Co3O4 and Ce-Co3O4, revealing that the Ce introduction can result in a significant upshift of the d-band center (−1.645 eV) compared to Co3O4 (−1.993 eV), which subsequently leads to enhanced adsorption ability of the Co sites. As

www.afm-journal.de

<span id="page-9-0"></span>expected, the adsorption energies of oxygen-containing intermediates (\*OH, \*O, and \*OOH) during the OER process on Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> are greatly improved (Figure 5h). [49,50] Last but not least, the corresponding OER process is simulated on the base of in situ DEMS result that the AEM pathway is the dominant mechanism over both Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The Gibbs free energy changes depicted in Figure 5i manifest that the generation of M\*-OOH from M\*-O represents the RDS with the highest energy barrier. It is also found that the introduction of Ce can sufficiently reduce the energy barrier of RDS from 1.55 to 1.44 eV, demonstrating good catalytic performances of OER.

Herein, we propose one regulation concept to facilitate electron transfer in the spinel electrocatalysts by constructing heterojunction and simultaneously introducing single atoms doping to tune the electron localization around active sites. As we all know, CeO<sub>2</sub> is a n-type semiconductor with relatively wide bandgap, [51] while Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> is a p-type semiconductor with relatively narrow bandgap (Figure 6a). [52] Therefore, the built-in electric field can be triggered based on the formation of CeO<sub>2</sub>/Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> heterojunction.<sup>[53]</sup> Due to the significant potential difference between the Fermi levels of CeO<sub>2</sub> and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, spontaneous electrons transfer from CeO<sub>2</sub> to Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> until the Fermi levels of both materials align, thus leading to the formation of a low oxidation state and electron localization of Co sites. More importantly, the introduction of Ce single atoms into Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> disrupts the original Co-O-Co balance, forming asymmetrical Co-O-Ce units. Because of the lower electronegativity of Ce, the electrons tend to aggregate around Co sites. Therefore, the interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer synergistically contribute to electron localization of Co sites, making the d-band center upshift, enhancing the adsorption of oxygen intermediates, and improving catalytic activity. Furthermore, one two-electrode water electrolysis system with Pt foil as HER catalyst and CeO2/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> as OER catalyst is used to assess feasibility of practical application, which is powered by solar cell (60 mm \* 60 mm). As shown in Figure 6b, the bubbles of O2 and H2 under irradiation are constantly being created, verifying the feasibility of the CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalyst for large-scale application under actual conditions. In addition, to verify the feasibility of this concept, a series of Ce-doped spinel structure catalysts with other transition metal elements are also prepared, such as Ni<sub>v</sub>O<sub>v</sub> and Mn<sub>v</sub>O<sub>v</sub>. The results shown in Figure 6c,d indicate that the strategy of constructing heterojunctions and introducing Ce single atoms is effective and universal to enhance the activity of spinel catalysts.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, one novel CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> electrocatalyst decorated by CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Ce single atoms was fabricated by using one facile deposition and calcination method. The CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> electrocatalyst exhibited excellent OER activity in alkaline electrolyte, achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an overpotential of only 216 mV, and can sustain for ≈100 h. In situ DEMS tests demonstrate the coexistence of AEM and LOM in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and enhanced proportion of LOM because of the electron localization regulation by CeO<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and Ce single atoms. Experimental and theoretical calculations demonstrate that Ce single atom in CeO<sub>2</sub>/Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> disrupts the original Co-O-Co equilibrium, which leads to electron transfer from

Ce to Co sites. The built-in electric field at the interfaces of CeO<sub>2</sub> and Ce-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> further promotes the electron transfer leading to electron localization and d band center upshift of the Co sites. thus contributing to enhancing OER performances. This finding provides valuable insights into boosting the electrocatalytic OER performances of spinel catalysts via interfacial built-in electric field and interatomic charge transfer for practical application in hydrogen production.

#### Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

L.-X. Wang and C.-Z. Yuan contributed equally to this work. The authors gratefully acknowledge support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52402132), Natural Science Foundation and Overseas Talent Projects of Jiangxi Province (20242BAB25217, 20232BAB214025, 20232BCJ25044), National Key Technology R&D Program of China (2022YFB3504302, 2022YFC3901503) and Double Thousand Plan of Jiangxi Province (jxsq2023201002).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

built-in electric field, charge transfer, d band centers, electron localization, lowered reaction barrier, spinel electrocatalysts

> Received: January 22, 2025 Revised: April 28, 2025 Published online: May 15, 2025

1616392, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.20250212 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] T. L. Lohr, A. R. Mouat, N. M. Schweitzer, P. C. Stair, M. Delferro, T. J. Marks, Energy Environ. Sci. 2017, 10, 1558.
- [2] X. Yang, C. P. Nielsen, S. Song, M. B. McElroy, Nat. Energy 2022, 7,
- [3] M. Chen, N. Kitiphatpiboon, C. Feng, Q. Zhao, A. Abudula, Y. Ma, K. Yan, G. Guan, Appl. Catal. B 2023, 330, 122577.
- [4] H. Li, Y. Lin, J. Duan, Q. Wen, Y. Liu, T. Zhai, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2024, 53, 10709.
- [5] Y. Zhao, D. P. Adiyeri Saseendran, C. Huang, C. A. Triana, W. R. Marks, H. Chen, H. Zhao, G. R. Patzke, Chem Rev. 2023, 123, 6257.
- [6] D. Li, Y. Zhang, W. Xie, Q. Zhou, F. Yu, Y. Qi, Z. Lian, L. Zhang, H. Wang, D. Tang, H. Zhou, Energy Environ. Sci. 2024, 18, 1320.
- [7] J. Sun, H. Xue, Y. Zhang, X.-L. Zhang, N. Guo, T. Song, H. Dong, Y. Kong, J. Zhang, Q. Wang, Nano Lett. 2022, 22, 3503.
- [8] C. Wang, D. Astruc, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2021, 50, 3437.

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[9] X. Gao, Y. Chen, Y. Wang, L. Zhao, X. Zhao, J. Du, H. Wu, A. Chen, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2024**, *16*, 237.
- [10] P. Aggarwal, D. Sarkar, K. Awasthi, P. W. Menezes, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *452*, 214289.
- [11] X. Han, D. Guo, Y. Wang, S. Huang, M.-Y. Wang, Y. Wang, M. Li, S. Wang, X. Ma, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 9812.
- [12] X.-M. Liu, X. Cui, K. Dastafkan, H.-F. Wang, C. Tang, C. Zhao, A. Chen, C. He, M. Han, Q. Zhang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *53*, 290.
- [13] Z. Wang, J. Huang, L. Wang, Y. Liu, W. Liu, S. Zhao, Z.-Q. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202114696.
- [14] H. Zhao, L. Zhu, J. Yin, J. Jin, X. Du, L. Tan, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202402171.
- [15] L. Yang, Z. Ni, Y. Zhao, Y. Long, M. Xi, A. Chen, H. Zhang, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 4c01829.
- [16] J. Cao, D. Zhang, B. Ren, P. Song, W. Xu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 5911.
- [17] J. R. Zhang, L. Pan, B. Guo, Z.-F. Huang, Z. Chen, L. Wang, X. Zhang, Z. Guo, W. Xu, K. P. Loh, J.-J. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 2271.
- [18] S. Wang, Q. Jiang, S. Ju, C.-S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, D. Zhang, F. Song, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6650.
- [19] B. Paul, P. Bhanja, S. Sharma, Y. Yamauchi, Z. A. Alothman, Z.-L. Wang, R. Bal, A. Bhaumik, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *582*, 322.
- [20] K. Lee, J. Shim, H. Ji, J. Kim, H. S. Lee, H. Shin, M. S. Bootharaju, K.-S. Lee, W. Ko, J. Lee, K. Kim, S. Yoo, S. Heo, J. Ryu, S. Back, B.-H. Lee, Y.-E. Sung, T. Hyeon, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 3618.
- [21] Q. Guo, Y. Li, Z. Xu, R. Liu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *15*, 2403744.
- [22] Y. Sun, T. Zhang, P. Sun, J. Wang, W. Duan, Y. Zhuang, L. Wang, Z. Li, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *94*, 778.
- [23] M. Li, X. Wang, K. Liu, H. Sun, D. Sun, K. Huang, Y. Tang, W. Xing, H. Li, G. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2302462.
- [24] X. Wang, J. Hu, T. Lu, H. Wang, D. Sun, Y. Tang, H. Li, G. Fu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *64*, 202415306.
- [25] S. Hirai, T. Ohno, R. Uemura, T. Maruyama, M. Furunaka, R. Fukunaga, W.-T. Chen, H. Suzuki, T. Matsuda, S. Yagi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 15387.
- [26] S. Hirai, S. Yagi, H.-C. Oh, Y. Sato, W. Liu, E.-P. Liu, W.-T. Chen, A. Miura, M. Nagao, T. Ohno, T. Matsuda, *RSC. Adv.* **2022**, *12*, 24427.
- [27] L. Bo, Y. Shen, S. Li, S. Yang, F. Nian, L. Pu, Z. Ma, L. Xu, J. Tong, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2024**, *12*, 12076.
- [28] Z. Zhang, M. Yan, Z. Xiong, S. Wang, C. Li, *J. Energy Storage* **2024**, *101*, 113668.
- [29] T. Li, Z. Wang, L. Wang, M. Wang, Y.-Q. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2024**, *352*, 123990.
- [30] W. Zhu, F. Yao, K. Cheng, M. Zhao, C.-J. Yang, C.-L. Dong, Q. Hong, Q. Jiang, Z. Wang, H. Liang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17995.
- [31] L. Chong, G. Gao, J. Wen, H. Li, H. Xu, Z. Green, J. D. Sugar, A. J. Kropf, W. Xu, X.-M. Lin, H. Xu, L.-W. Wang, D.-J. Liu, *Science* **2023**, *380*, 609.

- [32] H. Zhang, J. Diao, M. Ouyang, H. Yadegari, M. Mao, J. Wang, G. Henkelman, F. Xie, D. J. Riley, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2205974.
- [33] H. Zhang, L. Wu, R. Feng, S. Wang, C.-S. Hsu, Y. Ni, A. Ahmad, C. Zhang, H. Wu, H.-M. Chen, W. Zhang, Y. Li, P. Liu, F. Song, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 6000.
- [34] W. Shi, Y. Zhang, L. Bo, X. Guan, Y. Wang, J. Tong, *Inorg. Chem.* **2021**, *60*, 19136.
- [35] M. Ya, J. Wang, G. Li, G. Gao, X. Zhao, J. Cui, H. Wu, L. Li, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2023**, *11*, 744.
- [36] F. O. Boakye, K. Harrath, D. Zhang, Y. You, W. Zhang, Z. Wang, H. Zhang, J. Zhu, J. Long, J. Zhu, G. Yasin, K. A. Owusu, M. Tabish, L. Zhang, D. Wang, X. Shi, Z. Jiang, B. Wu, L. Mai, W. Zhao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2408714.
- [37] A. Li, S. Kong, C. Guo, H. Ooka, K. Adachi, D. Hashizume, Q. Jiang, H. Han, J. Xiao, R. Nakamura, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 109.
- [38] Y. Sun, J. Wang, S. Xi, J. Shen, S. Luo, J. Ge, S. Sun, Y. Chen, J. V. Hanna, S. Li, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Nat Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2467.
- [39] D. Li, D. Xu, Y. Pei, Q. Zhang, Y. Lu, B. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 28728.
- [40] S. Hirai, S. Yagi, W. Chen, F. Chou, N. Okazaki, T. Ohno, H. Suzuki, T. Matsuda, *Adv. Sci.* **2017**, *4*, 1700176.
- [41] Q. Deng, H. Li, K. Pei, L. W. Wong, X. Zheng, C. S. Tsang, H. Chen, W. Shen, T. H. Ly, J. Zhao, Q. Fu, *ACS. Nano* **2024**, *18*, 33718.
- [42] W. Zhang, K. Wang, L. Tan, F. Meharban, D. Wang, X. Li, C. Lin, W. Luo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2402034.
- [43] B. Yao, Y. Chen, Y. Yan, Y. Yang, H. Xing, Y. Xu, D. Jiao, Z. Xing, D. Wang, X. Yang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *64*, 202416141.
- [44] C. Yin, F. Zhou, J. Wu, X. Zhang, J. Wen, R. Zhu, M. Ma, S. Yoriya, P. He, Q. Fang, J. Wang, G. An, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2410429.
- [45] J. Mao, J. Iocozzia, J. Huang, K. Meng, Y. Lai, Z. Lin, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 772.
- [46] M. Bajdich, M. García-Mota, A. Vojvodic, J. K. Nørskov, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 13521.
- [47] X. Ren, T. Wu, Y. Sun, Y. Li, G. Xian, X. Liu, C. Shen, J. Gracia, H.-J. Gao, H. Yang, Z. J. Xu, *Nat Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2608.
- [48] C. Yang, W. Zhong, K. Shen, Q. Zhang, R. Zhao, H. Xiang, J. Wu, X. Li, N. Yang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200077.
- [49] J. Chen, H. Li, S. Chen, J. Fei, C. Liu, Z. Yu, K. Shin, Z. Liu, L. Song, G. Henkelman, L. Wei, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2003412.
- [50] J. Mei, J. Shang, T. He, D. Qi, L. Kou, T. Liao, A. Du, Z. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2201141.
- [51] E. Kusmierek, *Catalysts* **2020**, *10*, 1435.
- [52] A. Chauhan, R. Kumar, S. Devi, P. R. Sonu, P. Singh, V. K. Ponnusamy, A. Sudhaik, A. K. Mishra, R. Selvasembian, *Surf. Interf.* **2024**, *54*, 105152.
- [53] P. Zhao, C. Peng, Y. Luo, L. Cheng, Z. Li, Z. Jiao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *483*, 149121.