---
source: Wang 等 - 2024 - Anion Structure Regulation of Cobalt Silicate Hydroxide Endowing Boosted Oxygen Evolution Reaction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 42.598s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:09:20.628748Z
---

# **Anion Structure Regulation of Cobalt Silicate Hydroxide Endowing Boosted Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

*Yang Wang, Longmei Li, Shengguo Wang, Xueying Dong, Chongtao Ding, Yang Mu, Miao Cui, Tao Hu,\* Changgong Meng, and Yifu Zhang\**

**Transition metal silicates (TMSs) are attempted for the electrocatalyst of oxygen evolution reaction (OER) due to their special layered structure in recent years. However, defects such as low theoretical activity and conductivity limit their application. Researchers always prefer to composite TMSs with other functional materials to make up for their deficiency, but rarely focus on the effect of intrinsic structure adjustment on their catalytic activity, especially anion structure regulation. Herein, applying the method of interference hydrolysis and vacancy reserve, new silicate vacancies (anionic regulation) are introduced in cobalt silicate hydroxide (CoSi), named SV-CoSi, to enlarge the number and enhance the activity of catalytic sites. The overpotential of SV-CoSi declines to 301 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared to 438 mV of CoSi. Source of such improvement is verified to be not only the increase of active sites, but also the positive effect on the intrinsic activity due to the enhancement of cobalt-oxygen covalence with the variation of anion structure by density functional theory (DFT) method. This work demonstrates that the feasible intrinsic anion structure regulation can improve OER performance of TMSs and provides an effective idea for the development of non-noble metal catalyst for OER.**

### **1. Introduction**

Due to the depletion and pollution problems of fossil resources, the development of clean energy is necessary for the progress of society and technology.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) Hydrogen from the electrolysis of water is an important part of energy conversion and storage in the new clean energy relationship in the future.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) For its further application, the noble metal applied to the electrocatalysts should be replaced by non-noble metals based catalyst. However, anodic reaction, which corresponds to oxygen evolution reaction (OER),

Y. Wang, L. Li, S. Wang, X. Dong, C. Ding, Y. Mu, M. Cui, T. Hu, C. Meng, Y. Zhang

School of Chemistry

Dalian University of Technology

Dalian 116024, China

E-mail: [inorchem@dlut.edu.cn;](mailto:inorchem@dlut.edu.cn) [yfzhang@dlut.edu.cn](mailto:yfzhang@dlut.edu.cn)

Y. Mu, C. Meng

College of Environmental and Chemical Engineering

Dalian University Dalian 116622, China

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202401394>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202401394**

is still the bottleneck on the whole reaction due to its complex multi-electron transfer mechanism.[\[2–5\]](#page-10-0) The generally accepted mechanism of OER in an alkaline environment is water nucleophilic attack (WNA),[\[6,7\]](#page-10-0) which causes a high overpotential wall of 370 mV due to the constant Gibbs free energy gap of the two intermediate (\*OOH and \*OH).[\[8,9\]](#page-10-0) So far, the selection of a non-noble metal based anode catalyst for conquering the overpotential wall is still a difficult problem to overcome. Hence, two main breakthrough paths are regularly chosen. One is to reduce the Gibbs function of the key intermediate (mainly \*OOH) to minify the overpotential wall, such as forming intramolecular hydrogen bonds.[\[9,10\]](#page-10-0) The other is to bypass the overpotential wall by developing other mechanisms, mainly including lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism (LOM),[\[11–16\]](#page-10-0) interaction of two metaloxo entities (I2M)[\[7,17\]](#page-10-0) and extra single electron transfer mechanism (ET).[\[8\]](#page-10-0) The first path is usually chosen, where a key point that should be assured is keeping the

covalency between metal and oxygen in a suitable range called "neither too strong, or neither too weak".[\[18\]](#page-10-0) Recent researches illuminate a direct correlation between M-O covalency and electron structure (filling of eg orbitals) of metal sites, establishing a principle for catalyst design.[\[3,19–24\]](#page-10-0) Both the ability to cross the potential barrier and a suitable covalency always need to be taken into account during the design of OER electrocatalysts, and cobalt silicate hydroxide (denoted as CoSi) is such a material that possesses the above two features.

CoSi was initially attempted as an OER electrocatalyst in 2017 by Kim et al. in view of its special layered structure, highlighting the regulation of the local environment of the active sites by inert groups, which promoted the formation of intramolecular hydrogen bonds and stabled \*OOH intermediates.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, CoSi was proved to possess more appropriate metal-oxygen covalency than other transition metal silicates (TMSs) for OER.[\[18\]](#page-10-0) However, the theoretical activity of TMSs has been still limited by defects such as low conductivity, limited number and activity of active sites. Subsequent works in recent years have attempted various TMSs and their composites with other functional materials for overcoming the defects and improving electrochemical performance.[\[25–32\]](#page-10-0) Whereas, many of these works tended to set TMSs as the role of carriers, and meanwhile, few of them paid

attention to the intrinsic structure of TMSs, causing that the intrinsic activity has not been fully reflected, and the intrinsic problem has not been solved. In particular, the anion structure regulation of TMSs, which directly determines the distribution characteristics of active sites and affects the cationic chemical environment, has rarely been mentioned. The anion of layered TMSs, referring to the Si-O layers consisting of Si-O tetrahedral sixmembered rings, is the characteristic structure and a key to the properties.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) It is foreseeable that the successful adjustment of anionic structure will bring a new breakthrough on the catalytic properties of TMSs.

In the present work, to solve the intrinsic OER performance problem with the intrinsic structure regulation method, and to verify the positive effect of anion structure regulation on TMSs, we provide a method for creating silicate vacancies, which are caused by the anion structure regulation, in CoSi for the first time. Silica with silicon vacancy is synthesized by the phosphate interference hydrolysis method, followed by the vacancy reserve method for synthesizing SV-CoSi to create silicate vacancies. The existence of this particular structure and its influences on the overall framework and chemical environment are confirmed by direct and indirect evidences provided by various characterizations. In addition to the increase on the number of active sites, the effects of this adjustment also include the improvement of intrinsic activity. Density functional theory (DFT) method demonstrates that the introduction of silicate vacancies improves its conductivity and Co-O covalency, and the latter stabilizes the intermediate to reduce the reaction barrier and greatly improves the catalytic activity. The designed SV-CoSi reaches the best OER performance (301 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) of single metal silicate to date. Our work demonstrates the feasibility of intrinsic structure regulation to improve the electrochemical performance of TMSs, in particular emphasizing the function and advantage of anions and their structure adjustment and providing an effective idea for the development of TMSs as OER non-noble metal based catalysts.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

In order to adjust the anion structure in CoSi, we designed to primarily synthesize silica with SiO4 vacancies, and then to transfer these vacancies to CoSi with silicate vacancies (SV-CoSi) by self-template method. We found and confirmed that the added phosphate played a vital role in the sol–gel synthetic process of silica, which can induce the formation of SiO4 vacancies. Table S1 (Supporting Information) lists the designed comparative experiments and Figure S1 (Supporting Information) shows a morphology change of silica during the process of system adjustment, proving the detailed formation process of SiO4 vacancy in silica (detail analyses are shown in Supporting Information). Silica with SiO4 vacancies is named SV-SiO2, and normal synthesized silica is named SiO2. It can be discovered in transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images that SiO2 consists of solid spheres while SV-SiO2 consists of spheres with abundant pores (Figure S2, Supporting Information), and the latter has a much larger specific surface area and pore volume proved by N2 isotherms (Figure S3 and Table S2, Supporting Information). The dense pores probably result from the uneven growth of silica caused by the introduced vacancies. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) illustrates a shift in the binding energy of SV-SiO2 compared with SiO2, corresponding to an electron density change due to the vacancies (Figure S4 and Table S3, Supporting Information). Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) spectra verify the strength of the Si─OH bond in SV-SiO2, in line with the fitting of XPS, demonstrating the increased number of Si─OH bonds (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the weakening of the framework is proved by the redshift and vibration coupling weakening in FTIR spectra (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Moreover, elemental information from XPS and energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS) mapping illustrates a lower ratio of Si/O in SV-SiO2 (Table S4, Supporting Information), indicating the formation of SiO4 vacancies. All results support the exsitence of SiO4 vacancies in the SV-SiO2 structure (details in Supporting Information).

In brief, the reaction mechanism is speculated as follows (**Figure 1**[A\)](#page-2-0): HPO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> is hydrolyzed to produce H2PO4 <sup>−</sup> and OH<sup>−</sup>, both of which participate in the hydrolysis of TEOS, and the two steps form positive feedback regulation. The solubility of HPO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> in an ethanol-containing system is less than that of its hydrolysates H2PO4 <sup>−</sup> and OH<sup>−</sup> due to its higher formal charge, and the hydrolysis of HPO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> is thus promoted. On the contrary, water has a flattening effect on the solubility of these ions. Therefore, altering the ratio of water and ethanol can adjust the hydrolysis rate of HPO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>, thus controlling the rate of the entire hydrolysis reaction. The reaction formulas according to this mechanism are shown as follows:

hydrolysis

$$Si(OR)_4 + H_2O \rightarrow HO - Si(OR)_3 + ROH \cdots \rightarrow Si(OH)_4 + 4ROH$$
 (1)

$$HPO_4^{2-} + H_2O \to HO - PO_2 (OH)$$
 (2)

polycondensation

$$Si(OR)_3 - OH + HO - Si(OR)_3 \rightarrow Si(OR)_3 - O - Si(OR)_3 + H_2O$$
 (3)

$$Si(OR)_3 - OR + HO - Si(OR)_3 \rightarrow Si(OR)_3 - O - Si(OR)_3 + ROH$$
 (4)

$$Si(OR)_3 - OH + HO - PO_2(OH) \rightarrow Si(OR)_3 - O - PO_2(OH) + H_2O$$
 (5)

In the process of long-time hydrolysis or washing, the phosphate groups are removed due to the unstable combination with the silica tetrahedron (Figures S6 and S7, Supporting Information), and finally SV-SiO2 with SiO4 vacancies forms. FTIR spectra demonstrate the necessity of phosphate during the formation of SiO4 vacancies, whose generation is further promoted by the adjustment of solvent ratio, verifying the above mechanism (Figure S8, Supporting Information).

Figure [1B](#page-2-0) illustrates the vacancy reserve method in the synthesis of cobalt silicate hydroxide by self-template method using SV-SiO2 as a template. According to the mechanisms of the self-template method, including Kirkendall effect and Ostwald ripening,[\[33–35\]](#page-10-0) silica is etched under alkaline conditions and dissociated into anion groups, which then combines with the metal source Co(OH)2 (or Co(OH)Cl) to form cobalt silicate hydroxide, and the product finally deposits back onto the silica template.[\[36–39\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, The morphologies of silicates are similar to their corresponding template silica (Figure S9, Supporting

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Formation Mechanism of SV-SiO2 and SV-CoSi.

Information). In the etching process, silica with SiO4 vacancies is more likely to be etched into uneven anion groups, whose heterogeneous reaction with cobalt hydroxide tends to produce a discontinuous anion framework in the process of forming layered silicate, resulting in the formation of silicate vacancies. Therefore, it can be regarded that SiO4 vacancies in SV-SiO2 remain on the dissociated anion groups, which act as the medium for the transformation of vacancies. The hydroxyl sites on cobalt hydroxide corresponding to the vacancies on the anion groups are not replaced, and in this way, the SiO4 vacancies are further reserved to the silicate vacancies in product cobalt silicate hydroxide, named SV-CoSi. This process is called vacancy reserve mechanism (Figure 1B). Similarly, for comparison, the silica synthesized by general sol–gel method is named as SiO2, and the cobalt silicate hydroxide synthesized from SiO2 is named as CoSi.

The structures of SV-CoSi and CoSi are shown in **Figure 2**[a.](#page-3-0) Two kinds of silicate vacancies exist in SV-CoSi, one is intrinsic, called **vacancy I**, which can also be found in CoSi. Determined by the structure of layered metal silicate, it is the intrinsic vacancy that inevitably exists at the site surrounded by a six-membered ring.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) The other one is the silicate vacancy reserved from SV-SiO2 to SV-CoSi, which is called **vacancy II**. It's equivalent to removing one of the silicon atoms from a sixmembered ring structure and saturating the connected oxygen atoms with hydrogen. Therefore, formula of SV-CoSi should be adjusted to **Co3(OH1<sup>+</sup>4***x***)2(Si2-***x***O5)2** (0 *< x <* 2, *x* is the amount of vacancies II). Kim et al. have shown that **vacancies I** generally correspond to the site with the highest OER activity for surfaces of CoSi.[\[10,26\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, the introduction of **vacancies II** actually increases the number of active sites. In addition, the introduction of **vacancies II** is equivalent to the substitution of hydroxyl groups for silicates directly connected to cobalt, meaning an inevitable change in band structure, local electron cloud density, and bond covalency of cations. In this way, a series of properties such as the conductivity of bonds in cobalt silicate hydroxide and the catalytic activity of cobalt sites can be improved.[\[40\]](#page-10-0)

In order to testify the structure of SV-CoSi, it is necessary to primarily prove the rough similarity between the structure of SV-CoSi and CoSi, and then to verify the characteristics of SV-CoSi. The structures of CoSi and SV-CoSi are elucidated by

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Structure of CoSi and SV-CoSi, b) XRD patterns of CoSi and SV-CoSi, c–e) SEM, TEM and HRTEM images of SV-CoSi.

their X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns (Figure 2b). The diffraction peaks of both two samples can correspond to Co3(Si2O5)2(OH)2 (JCPDS No. 21–0871), indicating that CoSi and SV-CoSi have similar composition,[\[41\]](#page-10-0) and illustrating that the crystal structure is not damaged by structural regulation. Depicted by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and TEM images, the microstructure of SV-CoSi (Figure 2c,d) is likewise hollow spheres composed of nanosheets like CoSi (Figures S9a and S10a, Supporting Information). However, the size of the nanosheets that make up SV-CoSi hollow spheres (≈110 nm) is smaller compared with that of CoSi (≈150 nm). This is because the easier broken of nanosheets during growth process caused by **vacancies II**, which lead to a weakness of anion framework in SV-CoSi. EDS mapping images (Figure S11, Supporting Information) show a same uniform distribution of elements in both CoSi and SV-CoSi, in line with the conclusion of similar composition in XRD patterns. The highresolution TEM (HRTEM) of SV-CoSi in Figure 2e reveals an interplanar distance of 0.225 nm, while that of CoSi in Figure S10b (Supporting Information) is 0.220 nm, corresponding to lattice plane (014) of Co3(Si2O5)2(OH)2 (JCPDS No. 21–0871). The difference of interplanar distances between SV-CoSi and CoSi can be attributed to the change of interlayer structure due to anion structure regulation. There exist both amorphous structure and crystalline structure in HRTEM images of SV-CoSi (Figure 2e) and CoSi (Figure S10b, Supporting Information), reflecting the short-range ordered and long-range disordered characteristic of SV-CoSi and CoSi with low crystallinity. This feature is consistent with TMSs synthesized under the hydrothermal conditions.[\[42\]](#page-10-0)

The above conclusions can fully prove the similarity between SV-CoSi and CoSi in structure, and create the necessary premise for verifying the specific structure of SV-CoSi in three aspects. Primarily, the introduction of **vacancies II** obviously leads to an increase in the elemental proportion of Co/Si, which is the most direct reflection of the SV-CoSi structure. Posteriorly, the anionic structure of CoSi is composed of continuous six-membered rings of silicon-oxygen tetrahedrons, in which all silicon atoms are theoretically bonded in the form of Si─O─Si or Si─O─Co. However, the introduction of a **vacancy II** is equivalent to removing a Si from the anion framework, and associated Si─O─Si and Co─O─Si bonds are broken, inevitably leading to the saturation of the four oxygens, which should have been connected to silicon in CoSi, by hydrogen to form hydroxyl groups. One of those forms to Co─OH, and the other three forms to Si─OH groups that are nonexistent in CoSi. Therefore, another direct evidence for the establishment of SV-CoSi structure is to confirm the existence of Si─OH groups through various characterization methods. Finally, other factors like variation in electron cloud density can indirectly prove the structure of **vacancy II**.

XPS validates the design of SV-CoSi from the valence state of elements and electron cloud density. In the XPS survey spectra (Figure S12, Supporting Information), both CoSi and SV-CoSi contain elements of C, O, Si, and Co.[\[43\]](#page-10-0) The C 1s peak position is used to identify the binding energies. **Figures 3**[a–c](#page-4-0) show Co 2p, Si 2p, and O 1s peaks of CoSi and SV-CoSi. The binding energy of Co 2p1/2 and Co 2p3/2 peaks obviously increases, while that of Si 2p and O 1s decreases. This result can be traced to the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 3. a–c) XPS spectra of CoSi and SV-CoSi: (a) Co 2p, (b) Si 2p and (c) O 1s; d) UV-vis spectra of CoSi and SV-CoSi; e,f) FTIR spectra of CoSi and SV-CoSi: (e) full spectra and (f) partial spectra.

replacement of some of the silicate groups by hydroxyl groups. Due to the stronger electron-pulling ability of hydroxyl groups than silicate groups, the electron cloud density of cobalt decreases while that of oxygen and silicon increases, causing the shift in binding energy, which is shown in Table \$5 (Supporting Information). Peaks of Co 2p1/2 and Co 2p3/2 occur after their satellite peaks (Figure 3a). These peaks can all be fitted to peaks of two valence states, Co<sup>2+</sup> (higher binding energy) and Co<sup>3+</sup> (lower binding energy), respectively.[44] The area ratios of these peaks correspond to the ratios of the different valence states of cobalt in the samples. Via comparing the fitting results of the two samples, it can be observed that the proportion of Co<sup>3+</sup> in SV-CoSi is higher than that in CoSi. This result is consistent with the lower average electron cloud density of cobalt in SV-CoSi in the previous conclusion. The Si 2p peak of CoSi is fitted to the Si-O-Si band and Si-OH band, while that of SV-CoSi is fitted to a much stronger Si-OH band and Si-O-Si bond (Figure 3b). It is true in theory that there should be no Si-OH bonds in CoSi, but in practice, the normal synthesis of CoSi may also produce Si-OH bonds at the terminal of the layers or derive from local uneven reactions. However, the amount of Si-OH bonds in the CoSi must be very small compared to that in SV-CoSi. Similarly, the O 1s peak of SV-CoSi can be fitted to a larger Si-OH band in addition compared with CoSi (Figure 3c), corresponding to the relatively more existence of the Si-OH bond.

UV–vis spectra further confirm the above inference from another angle (Figure 3d). The absorption peaks at 225 nm correspond to the energy absorbed by the electron transition from the 2p orbital of  $O^{2-}$  to the 3d orbital of  $Co^{2+}$ . The absorption peaks at 335–376 nm correspond to a small number of  $Co^{3+}$  in the structure. The absorption peaks at 530 nm are derived from the

 $^4A_2 \rightarrow ^4T_1(P)$  transitions of high-spin (d') Co<sup>2+</sup>. [<sup>45,46]</sup> The similarity of UV-vis spectra of CoSi and SV-CoSi indicates the similarity of the coordination structures. The difference is that the absorption peak of SV-CoSi at 225 nm shows a certain degree of redshift relative to that of CoSi, indicating that the hydroxyl groups replace part of the silicate groups, in line with XPS spectra. The stronger inductive effect of hydroxyl groups increases the electron cloud density of O atoms in SV-CoSi while decreasing that of Co atoms. This transformation makes the stronger electron transition trend (O $\rightarrow$ Co), leading to a lengthening of the absorption wavelength and a redshift of the absorption peak. The above two characterizations are indirect evidences for the successful introduction of new silicate vacancies in SV-CoSi.

More direct evidences for the SV-CoSi structure are provided by FTIR and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). As shown in Figure 3d,e, both CoSi and SV-CoSi contain asymmetric stretching vibration peaks of Si-O-Si ( $v_{(as)Si-O-Si}$ ), stretching vibration peaks  $(v_{(s)Si,O})$  and bending vibration peaks of Si-O  $(\delta_{Si,O})$ , bending vibration peaks of Co–O ( $\delta_{\text{Co-O}}$ ) and stretching vibration peaks of 3Co–OH ( $\nu_{3\text{Co-OH}}$ ).[47] The presence of these bonds verifies that the structures of CoSi and SV-CoSi are generally similar, while the difference in FTIR strongly confirms vacancies II. In the spectrum of SV-CoSi (Figures 3d-e), the absorption peak at 960 cm<sup>-1</sup> corresponds to the stretching vibration peak of Si-OH, whose intensity is much lower in CoSi, indicating that some of SiO<sub>4</sub> units are replaced by hydroxyl groups. It proves the existence of vacancies II. Wavenumbers of  $v_{\text{(as)Si-O-Si}}$ ,  $v_{\text{(s)Si-O}}$ , and  $\delta_{\text{Si-O}}$ in SV-CoSi have a certain degree of redshift compared with those in CoSi, illustrating a weakening of the overall frame strength. This result is parallel to the above result that some of the SiO<sub>4</sub> units being replaced by hydroxyl groups. It is worth noting that

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. a) LSV curves and compared overpotentials of CoSi and SV-CoSi; b) compared overpotentials of SV-CoSi and samples in previous works; c) Tafel slopes of CoSi and SV-CoSi; d) ECSA of CoSi and SV-CoSi; e) EIS of CoSi and SV-CoSi; f) cycle stability of CoSi and SV-CoSi.

the position of bending vibration peak of Co—O in SV-CoSi is unchanged compared with that in CoSi. This phenomenon means that the framework structure change of SV-CoSi only occurs in the Si-O layers composed of  ${\rm SiO_4}$  structural units, but not in the Co—O layers composed of  ${\rm CoO_6}$  units, indicating that the structural change of  ${\rm SiO_4}$  units replaced by hydroxyl groups does not cause the collapse of the overall framework of SV-CoSi.

TGA can be used to predict the composition by analyzing the different reaction stages and the corresponding reaction heat with the temperature increase (Figures \$13 and \$14, Supporting Information). TGA curves illustrate a similar reaction process of CoSi and SV-CoSi. In general, the reaction is the simultaneous process of oxidation of Co<sub>3</sub>(OH)<sub>4</sub>Si<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> and decomposition into Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, which is then decomposed into Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The first half reaction is mainly exothermic, while the second half is endothermic. The inflection point of derivative thermogravimetry (DTG) curves can be used to determine the interval in which each reaction occurs, while differential thermal analysis (DTA) curves illustrate the reaction heat at different stages.[48] The trends of three curves of CoSi are in line with the above reaction process. However, the total reaction heat value of the DTA curve of SV-CoSi in the oxidation stage of Co<sub>3</sub>(OH)<sub>4</sub>Si<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub> is greater than zero in the interval before 238 °C, meaning an endothermic situation, which suggests that a new endothermic reaction occurs at this stage (Figure \$13, Supporting Information). In connection with the previous speculation on the SV-CoSi structure, this endothermic process is corresponding to the decomposition of the Si-OH structure. In addition, compared with CoSi (9.1%), mass of SV-CoSi declines more slowly (7.4%) before 422 °C. In view of the introduction of vacancies II, the proportion of Co increases in SV-CoSi. The oxidation of Co requires to absorb more oxygen, which offsets more mass loss. Similarly, faster mass decline of SV-CoSi (1.5%) than CoSi (1.1%) after 422 °C means more decomposed  $\mathrm{Co_2O_3}$ , which also confirms the conclusion that the proportion of cobalt is larger in SV-CoSi (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The existence of Si-OH structure confirmed by FTIR and TGA further demonstrates the successful regulation of SV-CoSi structure.

Furthermore, the elemental ratios of Co/Si, which are the most direct evidence for **vacancies II**, are verified by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), EDS mapping, and XPS (Tables S6 and S7, Supporting Information). All the characterizations prove that the ratio of cobalt to silicon in SV-CoSi is higher than that in CoSi, in exceptionally good agreement with the conclusions of TGA. The above characterizations successfully confirm the existence of **vacancies II** in SV-CoSi, which can provide more active sites on the surface and adjust the energy band, electronic structure, and bond covalency of SV-CoSi. The positive effect of these changes on OER catalytic activity is verified by the following electrochemical tests.

The overpotential of OER is analyzed by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) test, as depicted in **Figure 4a**. At the current density of 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, the overpotential of CoSi is 438 mV, while this value of SV-CoSi is greatly reduced to 301 mV. SV-CoSi achieves an unprecedented lowest overpotential relative to previous works on mono-metallic silicates, such as FeSNH (381 mV), CoSHN (358 mV), and NiSHN (420 mV) synthesized by Zhu et al,<sup>[18]</sup> and ACP synthesized by Kim et al,<sup>[10,26]</sup> SV-CoSi shows relatively low overpotential among bimetallic silicate and simple silicate-metal oxide complexes, such as CoSi-P synthesized by Ding et al,<sup>[32]</sup> FCNHSs-6 synthesized by Zhu et al,<sup>[30]</sup> ACFP64 synthesized by Kim et al,<sup>[26]</sup> Fe-Co<sub>2</sub>SiO<sub>4</sub> synthesized by Mu et al,<sup>[27]</sup> Co rich C/CoSi and NiO<sub>x</sub> C/CoSi synthesized by Pei et al,<sup>[28,31]</sup> as listed in Figure 4b. Furthermore, the more

**Figure 5.** a) Co K-edge XANES spectra of CoSi, SV-CoSi, SV-CoSi after electrolysis and their references (Co Foil, CoO and CoOOH), inset in (a) is the amplified curves of XANES pre-edge data; b) Co K-edge EXAFS spectra of CoSi, SV-CoSi, SV-CoSi and their references (CoO and CoOOH).

**vacancies II** are introduced, the better OER performance is achieved (Figure S15, Supporting Information). This is a positive correlation between the amount of introduced **vacancies II** and OER properties of cobalt silicate hydroxide in this work. The above results demonstrate the introduced vacancies in cobalt silicate hydroxide can greatly boost its OER properties, meaning positive effects of successful anion structure regulation on OER properties. The Tafel slopes (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0) show better reaction kinetics of SV-CoSi (88 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) than CoSi (201 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), which is caused by the changes in band structure and electron cloud density. The electrochemically surface areas (ECSA) from cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves in Figure S16 (Supporting Information) show more active sites in SV-CoSi (55.4 μF·cm<sup>−</sup>2) than those in CoSi (32.3 μF·cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure [4d\)](#page-5-0). On the contrary, the actual specific surface area of SV-CoSi obtained by nitrogen adsorptiondesorption is smaller than that of CoSi (Figure S17 and Table S8, Supporting Information), suggesting a much higher density of active sites in SV-CoSi. Since the intrinsic **vacancies I** correspond to the best active sites on the surface of CoSi, it can be concluded that the increased number of active sites is directly related to **vacancies II**. In this way, it can be inferred that introduced vacancies are regarded as highly active sites. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) in Figure [4e](#page-5-0) shows a higher conductivity of SV-CoSi, which roots in the adjustment of the cobalt band structure after the hydroxyl groups replace the silicate groups. As shown in Figure [4f,](#page-5-0) the introduction of **vacancies II** barely affects the cyclic performance of SV-CoSi. Moreover, SV-CoSi retains 88% of its catalytic activity after 100 h of long-term stability test (Figure S18, Supporting Information). In order to verify the structural stability of SV-CoSi under OER conditions, a series of characterizations are further carried out. Ex situ SEM and XRD confirm that SV-CoSi maintains its morphology and crystal structure after the OER process (Figure S19 and S20, Supporting Information). Moreover, in spite of slight irreversible oxidation reaction shown in Co 2p peaks of ex situ XPS (Figure S21, Supporting Information), unchanged Si 2p peaks still indicates that the silicate anion framework maintains in the structure of SV-CoSi. Furthermore, in situ Raman spectra (Figure S22, Supporting Information) prove the structure stability of CoSi and SV-CoSi during OER process in terms of bonding, demonstrating its stability in the process of catalyzing OER reaction. To ver-

ify this conclusion, DFT calculations for the stability of SV-CoSi under OER condition confirm that potential Co and Si leaching are both non-spontaneous (Figure S23 and Table S10, Supporting Information). The above results demonstrate the positive effect of new introduced **vacancies II** in SV-CoSi on its OER performance.

To further illustrate the structural difference between CoSi and SV-CoSi, and to confirm the structural stability of SV-CoSi after electrolysis, X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) analysis for these samples is carried out. The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of CoSi, SV-CoSi, and SV-CoSi after electrolysis and their references (Co Foil, CoO, and CoOOH) are depicted in **Figure 5**a. It can be observed that Co near-edges of CoSi and SV-CoSi located between CoOOH and CoO are almost coincident, demonstrating that Co elements in both CoSi and SV-CoSi have a similar mixed valence state of Co(II) and Co(III).[\[9\]](#page-10-0) The Co near-edge of SV-CoSi after electrolysis is more approach to CoOOH compared with that of SV-CoSi, confirming the existence of an irreversible oxidation during the OER process. Figure 5b shows the Fourier-transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra in R space without phase correction. The peaks approach 1.5 and 2.5 Å can be assigned to Co─O and Co─Co scattering, respectively. The [CoO6] octahedral coordination configuration in CoSi and SV-CoSi can be inferred by comparing the EXAFS spectra profiles of CoSi, SV-CoSi, CoO, and CoOOH.[\[9\]](#page-10-0) However, the Co─O and Co─Co distances of CoSi and SV-CoSi are obviously longer than those in CoO and CoOOH, illustrating the structural effect of Si─O anion framework on Co─O cationic framework in cobalt silicate hydroxide species. Moreover, compared with CoSi, the Co─O and Co─Co distances in SV-CoSi are more adjacent to CoO and CoOOH, corresponding to the structural change in the substitution of silicates by hydroxyl groups, which makes the structure of SV-CoSi more inclined to cobalt oxide and hydroxide than CoSi. EXAFS spectrum of SV-CoSi after electrolysis demonstrates a shorter Co─O distance due to the irreversible oxidation during the OER process, while the Co─Co distance almost maintains a relatively higher value than that in CoOOH, confirming the retention of anion framework during the OER process.[\[10\]](#page-10-0) From the EXAFS results, the adjusted anionic structure and its stability after electrolysis are both further verified.

**Figure 6.** a) primate cell and adjustment of CoSi; b) electron density difference of CoSi (left) and SV-CoSi (right); c) HOMO orbitals of CoSi and SV-CoSi; d) DOS and e) Co 3d PDOS of CoSi, SV10%-CoSi, SV20%-CoSi, and SV100%-CoSi.

To verify the effect of introduced **vacancies II** on the properties of SV-CoSi by DFT method, part of the silicate groups in the geometrically optimized CoSi model are replaced with hydroxyl groups, and the adjusted models are then carried out geometric optimization and property calculations again. The primate cell of CoSi is shown in **Figure 6**a, there exist two kinds of Si sites. One of them is replaced by hydrogen, whose doping ratios are increased from 10%, and 20% to 100%, respectively. The doped models are named SV10%-CoSi, SV20%-CoSi, and SV100%-CoSi in sequence (Figure 6a). The first calculated property is the electron density difference before and after silicate groups are replaced with hydroxyl groups (CoSi and SV100%- CoSi) (Figure 6b). Compared with CoSi (left), the electron cloud density of cobalt in SV-CoSi (right) is significantly reduced, in line with the results obtained by XPS and UV–vis, further proving the reduction of local electron cloud density by the introduction of **vacancies II**. [\[49\]](#page-10-0)

Next, the calculations of band structure and density of states (DOS) show a gradually narrow trend of band gap with the increase of doping concentration (Figure 6d; Figure S24, Supporting Information). Band gap value of CoSi is 0.485 eV, while those of SV10%-CoSi and SV20%-CoSi decrease to 0.350 and 0.330 eV, respectively. When the silicate groups at site 2 are completely replaced by hydroxyl groups, the Fermi level even crosses the band, making SV100%-CoSi display the property as conductors (Figure S24d, Supporting Information). This conclusion is consistent with the results of EIS tests (Figure [4e\)](#page-5-0), meaning that the structure of SV-CoSi is particularly favorable for electron transfer in electrode reactions.

It is confirmed by orbital calculation for both CoSi and SV-CoSi that, the highest occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO) are composed of Co 3d orbitals and O 2p orbitals (Figure 6c), and the former one obviously contributes more near the Fermi level (Figure 6e; Figure S25, Supporting Information). Therefore, the researches of the partial density of state (PDOS) of Co 3d orbitals can further explore the band variation adjacent to the Fermi level.[\[50\]](#page-10-0) Furthermore, PDOS of Co 3d orbitals can be used for explaining the performance improvement from a deeper perspective through the bonding situation of cobalt. Obviously, from CoSi (−1.54 eV) to SV100%-CoSi (−1.09 eV), the Fermi level gradually approaches the center of the Co 3d orbital and the highest PDOS region of Co 3d orbitals under Fermi level, corresponding to the phenomenon of the gradual narrowing of the band gap (Figure 6e). In addition, the increase of the energy level of Co 3d center signifies the increasing of energy level of the Co 3d anti-bonding orbitals, in which the probability of filling electrons is reduced, leading to an increased bond level and enhanced Co─O covalency. Similarly, in the calculations of the O 2p orbital

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a,b) WNA reaction processes on the surface of (a) SV100%-CoSi and (b) CoSi; c) Gibbs energy diagram of CoSi and SV100%-CoSi; d) volcano diagram of CoSi, SV10%-CoSi, SV20%-CoSi, and SV100%-CoSi.

PDOS, the energy level of the O 2p center rises as the doping ratio increases (Figure S25, Supporting Information). The above conclusions not only correspond to the decrease of electron cloud density at the cobalt sites, but also further explain the improvement of catalytic activity from the reaction mechanism.[\[51,52\]](#page-10-0)

For WNA mechanism under an alkaline system, the mechanism of OER can be divided into the following steps (**Figure 7**a,b) [\[2,53\]](#page-10-0) :

$$OH^- + * \rightarrow HO * + e^- \tag{6}$$

$$HO * +OH^{-} \rightarrow O * +H_{2}O + e^{-}$$
 (7)

$$O * +OH^{-} \rightarrow HOO * +e^{-}$$
(8)

$$HOO * +OH^{-} \rightarrow O_{2} + H_{2}O + * +e^{-}$$
 (9)

For normal catalysts, the difference between the Gibbs functions of OOH\* and OH\* intermediates (*G*\***OOH** − *G*\***OH**) is ≈3.2 eV. Even for catalysts such as CoSi and SV-CoSi, whose \*OOH intermediates can form intramolecular hydrogen bonds to reduce their energy, the sum of the Gibbs function changes at steps 2 and 3 should still occupy most of the total Gibbs function difference of 4.92 eV among all the four-step reaction. Therefore, step 2 or step 3 is the rate-determining step (RDS) of the entire reaction in general. To research the reaction mechanism of CoSi and SV-CoSi as OER electrode catalysts, (201) surface of CoSi is prepared and optimized by the Materials Studio, and one of the silicate sites on the surface is then replaced or partly replaced with a hydroxyl group to obtain the (201) surface of SVx%-CoSi. The

surface of SV100%-CoSi equals to the (201) surface of SV-CoSi (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Gibbs functions of different intermediates are calculated on these adsorbed surfaces to obtain a Gibbs energy diagram.

As can be seen from the Gibbs energy diagrams (Figure [7c\)](#page-8-0), RDS is the third step whether in CoSi or SV100%-CoSi, meaning that it is difficult for Co-\*O to adsorb \*OH and form Co-\*OOH. With the enhanced Co-O covalency, it is more conducive for Co active sites in SV100%-CoSi to stabilize the Co-\*OOH intermediate, reducing its energy relative to the corresponding Co-\*O intermediate, and thus reducing the energy barrier that needs to be crossed in RDS.[\[3,11,54–57\]](#page-10-0) The calculated theoretical overpotential of SV100%-CoSi shown in the Gibbs energy diagram is 0.3 eV, which is almost consistent with the LSV test results (300 mV practical overpotential) and much lower than that of CoSi. The above results indicate that Co-O covalency enhanced by the introduction of **vacancies II** makes for reducing the reaction barrier by stabilizing the intermediate in RDS and obtaining a better OER performance.

To further confirm the above conclusion, (*G*\***OOH** − *G*\***OH**) on the surfaces of CoSi, SV10%-CoSi, SV20%-CoSi, and SV100%- CoSi are measured subsequently, and a volcanic diagram of the energy difference and OER overpotential is then obtained (Figure [7d\)](#page-8-0). It is obvious that Co-O covalency gradually increases from CoSi to SV100%-CoSi, and the corresponding OER performance gradually approaches the top of the volcanic peak, adequately confirming the above results.

Similarly, it can be inferred that if the other silicate site is also replaced by the hydroxyl group, a single-layered cobalt hydroxide is obtained, which should be situated on the left branch of the volcano. DFT calculations of OER processes on (101) surface of Co(OH) *̄* <sup>2</sup> and CoOOH confirm this prediction (Figure S27 and S28, Supporting Information). Due to their excessive Co-O covalency, barrier potential of oxygen evolution step increase, even if stability of Co\*-OOH intermediate further increase. Therefore, the rate-determining step (RDS) turns into step 4, which possesses a much higher overpotential, making the whole OER process more difficult. The corresponding location of cobalt hydroxide in volcanic diagram is away from the highest performance region due to its excessive Co-O covalency, in agreement with the catalyst design principle: "neither too strong, neither too weak".[\[8\]](#page-10-0) For example, CoOOH NLs synthesized by Kim et al. showed a high overpotential of 405 mV,[\[10\]](#page-10-0) and CoHP synthesized by Lan et al. showed an overpotential of 369 mV.[\[58\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, a series of OER performance of cobalt oxides/hydroxides in previous works is listed in Table S11 (Supporting Information), in which SV-CoSi shows lower overpotential than all of the transition metal oxides/hydroxides, in line with our prediction (Figure [4b\)](#page-5-0). It illustrates that the role of silicate groups in cobalt silicate hydroxide is not only a tool to divide the cation layer to provide more active sites,[\[59\]](#page-11-0) or to display as sacrificed anion groups for the convenient adjustment of structure, but also to co-regulate properties such as band structure, electron density and covalency of the cation together with the hydroxyl groups. Creating **vacancies II** is equivalent to adjusting the ratio of silicate groups and hydroxyl groups in the structure of cobalt silicate hydroxide, making these above properties reach the most balanced and most conducive for the catalytic OER reaction.

# **3. Conclusion**

Overall, this work develops an effective strategy to replace part of the silicate groups with hydroxyl groups in the structure of CoSi by forming extra silicate vacancies, and this strategy fills the gap in the research of anion structure regulation on TMSs. The structural changes after successful anion structure regulation are verified in terms of electron cloud density, formation of Si─OH bond, and element ratio supported by both characterizations and DFT calculations. The designed SV-CoSi achieves superior electrochemical properties compared to CoSi, including a higher conductivity and a sensational low overpotential of 301 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2. The rise of the Co 3d center, which causes the enhancement of Co-O covalency and consequent stabilization of the intermediate in RDS, is the vital factor resulting in the boosted OER performance. What's more, silicate groups are beneficial for adjusting the OER properties of Co-based materials, highlighting the nature of anion structure regulation in TMSs for improving their electro-catalytic property. This work not only demonstrates that the OER performance of TMSs can be enhanced by anion structure regulation but also opens a new chapter for the structural design of TMSs with boosted properties.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors thank the Natural Science Foundation of Liaoning Province (2023-MS-115) and the Large Instrument and Equipment Open Foundation of Dalian University of Technology for supporting this work. The authors thank the Anhui Absorption Spectroscopy Analysis Instrument Co, Ltd. for XAFS measurements and analysis.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

anion structure regulation, cobalt silicate hydroxide, oxygen evolution reaction, vacancy

> Received: February 21, 2024 Revised: April 12, 2024 Published online: May 6, 2024

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[1] D. Larcher, J. M. Tarascon, *Nat. Chem.* **2015**, *7*, 19.
- [2] Y. Mu, T. T. Wang, J. Zhang, C. G. Meng, Y. F. Zhang, Z. K. Kou, *Electrochem. Energy R.* **2022**, *5*, 145.
- [3] J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1383.
- [4] M. Q. Yu, E. Budiyanto, H. Tuysuz, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202103824.
- [5] A. Moysiadou, S. Lee, C. S. Hsu, H. M. Chen, X. L. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 11901.
- [6] X. P. Wang, H. Y. Zhong, S. B. Xi, W. S. V. Lee, J. M. Xue, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107956.
- [7] H. Y. Jin, X. Y. Liu, P. F. An, C. Tang, H. M. Yu, Q. H. Zhang, H. J. Peng, L. Gu, Y. Zheng, T. S. Song, K. Davey, U. Paik, J. C. Dong, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, [https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-35913-6) [35913-6.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-35913-6)
- [8] M. J. Craig, G. Coulter, E. Dolan, J. Soriano-Lopez, E. Mates-Torres, W. Schmitt, M. Garcia-Melchor, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4993.
- [9] W. Z. Huang, J. T. Li, X. B. Liao, R. H. Lu, C. H. Ling, X. Liu, J. S. Meng, L. B. Qu, M. T. Lin, X. F. Hong, X. B. Zhou, S. L. Liu, Y. Zhao, L. Zhou, L. Q. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200270.
- [10] J. S. Kim, I. Park, E. S. Jeong, K. Jin, W. M. Seong, G. Yoon, H. Kim, B. Kim, K. T. Nam, K. Kang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606893.
- [11] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. H. Han, W. T. Hong, Y. L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 457.
- [12] Y. L. Pan, X. M. Xu, Y. J. Zhong, L. Ge, Y. B. Chen, J. P. M. Veder, D. Q. Guan, R. O'Hayre, M. R. Li, G. X. Wang, H. Wang, W. Zhou, Z. P. Shao, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2002.
- [13] F. Dionigi, J. Zhu, Z. H. Zeng, T. Merzdorf, H. Sarodnik, M. Gliech, L. J. Pan, W. X. Li, J. Greeley, P. Strasser, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 14446.
- [14] Z. Y. He, J. Zhang, Z. H. Gong, H. Lei, D. Zhou, N. A. Zhang, W. J. Mai, S. J. Zhao, Y. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2191.
- [15] N. Zhang, X. B. Feng, D. W. Rao, X. Deng, L. J. Cai, B. C. Qiu, R. Long, Y. J. Xiong, Y. Lu, Y. Chai, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4066.
- [16] Z. F. Huang, S. B. Xi, J. J. Song, S. Dou, X. G. Li, Y. H. Du, C. Z. Diao, Z. C. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3992.
- [17] N. Govindarajan, M. T. M. Koper, E. J. Meijer, F. Calle-Vallejo, *ACS Catal* **2019**, *9*, 4218.
- [18] J. X. Zhu, S. K. Li, Z. C. Zhuang, S. Gao, X. F. Hong, X. L. Pan, R. H. Yu, L. Zhou, L. V. Moskaleva, L. Q. Mai, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2022**, *5*, 231.
- [19] L. C. Bai, S. W. Lee, X. L. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3095.
- [20] Z. P. Wu, H. B. Zhang, S. W. Zuo, Y. Wang, S. L. Zhang, J. Zhang, S. Q. Zang, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103004.
- [21] L. J. Zhang, W. W. Cai, N. Z. Bao, H. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110511.
- [22] Y. M. Sun, S. N. Sun, H. T. Yang, S. B. Xi, J. Gracia, Z. C. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003297.
- [23] C. Feng, Z. R. Zhang, D. D. Wang, Y. Kong, J. Wei, R. Y. Wang, P. Y. Ma, H. L. Li, Z. G. Geng, M. Zuo, J. Bao, S. M. Zhou, J. Zeng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9271.
- [24] T. Z. Wu, X. Ren, Y. M. Sun, S. N. Sun, G. Y. Xian, G. G. Scherer, A. C. Fisher, D. Mandler, J. W. Ager, A. Grimaud, J. L. Wang, C. M. Shen, H. T. Yang, J. Gracia, H. J. Gao, Z. C. J. Xu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3634.
- [25] Y. F. Feng, C. Y. Xu, E. L. Hu, B. B. Xia, J. Q. Ning, C. C. Zheng, Y. J. Zhong, Z. Y. Zhang, Y. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 14103.
- [26] B. Kim, J. S. Kim, H. Kim, I. Park, W. M. Seong, K. Kang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 18380.

- [27] Y. Mu, Y. F. Zhang, X. Y. Pei, X. Y. Dong, Z. K. Kou, M. Cui, C. G. Meng, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **2022**, *611*, 235.
- [28] X. Y. Pei, S. P. Yi, Y. F. Zhao, Y. Mu, Y. T. Yu, M. Cui, C. G. Meng, C. Huang, Y. F. Zhang, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **2022**, *616*, 476.
- [29] J. Zhang, Z. L. Li, G. Bai, Q. B. Wang, J. Zhang, W. Wang, L. J. Zhou, J. Yi, Z. Y. Ma, *Fuel* **2023**, *332*, 126209.
- [30] J. X. Zhu, L. X. Xia, W. X. Yang, R. H. Yu, W. Zhang, W. Luo, Y. H. Dai, W. Wei, L. Zhou, Y. Zhao, L. Q. Mai, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2022**, *5*, 655.
- [31] X. Y. Pei, Y. F. Zhang, Y. Mu, M. Cui, F. P. Tian, C. G. Meng, *Chem. Eng. Sci.* **2022**, *251*, 117490.
- [32] C. T. Ding, Y. Yu, Y. Wang, Y. Mu, X. Y. Dong, C. G. Meng, C. Huang, Y. F. Zhang, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **2023**, *648*, 251.
- [33] A. Cabot, M. Ibanez, P. Guardia, A. P. Alivisatos, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2009**, *131*, 11326.
- [34] T. Sugimoto, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **1978**, *63*, 369.
- [35] E. J. Perry, *J. Phys. Chem-Us* **1958**, *62*, 585.
- [36] Q. S. Wang, Y. F. Zhang, H. M. Jiang, X. J. Li, Y. Cheng, C. G. Meng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2019**, *362*, 818.
- [37] Y. Cheng, Y. F. Zhang, H. M. Jiang, X. Y. Dong, J. Q. Zheng, C. G. Meng, *J. Colloid Interf. Sci.* **2020**, *561*, 762.
- [38] Q. Rong, L. L. Long, X. Zhang, Y. X. Huang, H. Q. Yu, *Appl Energy* **2015**, *153*, 63.
- [39] T. Okada, *Chem. Rec.* **2018**, *18*, 829.
- [40] J. C. Zhang, C. N. Ma, S. Y. Jia, Y. A. Gu, D. M. Sun, Y. W. Tang, H. J. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2302436.
- [41] T. Hu, Y. Wang, X. Y. Dong, Y. Mu, X. Y. Pei, X. Y. Jing, M. Cui, C. G. Meng, Y. F. Zhang, *Dalton T.* **2022**, *51*, 2815.
- [42] J. X. Zhu, L. X. Xia, W. X. Yang, R. H. Yu, W. Zhang, W. Luo, Y. H. Dai, W. Wei, L. Zhou, Y. Zhao, L. Q. Mai, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2021**, 655.
- [43] X. Y. Dong, Y. T. Yu, X. Y. Jing, H. M. Jiang, T. Hu, C. G. Meng, C. Huang, Y. F. Zhang, *J. Power Sources* **2021**, *492*, 229643.
- [44] H. Chai, P. Wang, T. Wang, L. L. Gao, F. Li, J. Jin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 47572.
- [45] C. Montes, M. E. Davis, B. Murray, M. Narayana, *J. Phys. Chem-Us* **1990**, *94*, 6431.
- [46] C. Montes, M. E. Davis, B. Murray, M. Narayana, *J. Phys. Chem-Us* **1990**, *94*, 6425.
- [47] X. Y. Pei, Y. Mu, X. Y. Dong, C. T. Ding, L. S. Xu, M. Cui, C. G. Meng, Y. F. Zhang, *Carbon Neutralization* **2023**, *2*, 115.
- [48] J. J. Sun, Y. F. Zhao, Y. Y. Liu, H. M. Jiang, C. Huang, M. Cui, T. Hu, C. G. Meng, Y. F. Zhang, *Small Struct.* **2022**, *3*, 2100212.
- [49] J. C. Zhang, Y. A. Gu, Y. Lu, C. C. Zhu, G. C. Liu, C. Wang, D. M. Sun, Y. W. Tang, H. J. Sun, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 122316.
- [50] T. G. Yun, Y. Heo, H. B. Bae, S. Y. Chung, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 824.
- [51] J. C. Zhang, G. B. Chen, Q. C. Liu, C. Fan, D. M. Sun, Y. W. Tang, H. J. Sun, X. L. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209486.
- [52] S. Y. Jia, J. C. Zhang, Q. C. Liu, C. N. Ma, Y. W. Tang, H. J. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 23489.
- [53] R. R. Rao, S. Corby, A. Bucci, M. Garcia-Tecedor, C. A. Mesa, J. Rossmeisl, S. Gimenez, J. Lloret-Fillol, I. E. L. Stephens, J. R. Durrant, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7622.
- [54] B. Zhang, X. L. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. Garcia-Melchor, L. L. Han, J. X. Xu, M. Liu, L. R. Zheng, F. P. G. de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. J. Fan, M. J. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. F. Liu, Y. H. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. L. Xin, H. G. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2016**, *352*, 333.
- [55] C. Z. Yang, G. Rousse, K. L. Svane, P. E. Pearce, A. M. Abakumov, M. Deschamps, G. Cibin, A. V. Chadwick, D. A. Dalla Corte, H. A. Hansen, T. Vegge, J. M. Tarascon, A. Grimaud, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1378.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [56] X. Lin, Y. C. Huang, Z. W. Hu, L. L. Li, J. Zhou, Q. Y. Zhao, H. L. Huang, J. Sun, C. W. Pao, Y. C. Chang, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, C. L. Dong, J. Q. Wang, L. J. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 416.
- [57] N. Li, R. G. Hadt, D. Hayes, L. X. Chen, D. G. Nocera, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4218.
- [58] J. Lan, D. Z. Qi, J. Song, P. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. X. Pan, *Front Chem Sci Eng* **2020**, *14*, 948.
- [59] Y. Song, I. Gómez-Recio, A. Ghoridi, F. Saldaña, D. Janisch, C. Sassoye, V. Dupuis, D. Hrabovsky, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 19207.

16136829, 2024, 36, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202401394 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License