---
source: Wang 等 - 2021 - Engineering Lattice Oxygen Activation of Iridium Clusters Stabilized on Amorphous Bimetal Borides Ar.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 40.995s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:04:02.394833Z
---

## **Forschungsartikel**

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 27126–27134 Internationale Ausgabe: doi.org/10.1002/anie.202112870 Deutsche Ausgabe: doi.org/10.1002/ange.202112870

# **Engineering Lattice Oxygen Activation of Iridium Clusters Stabilized** on Amorphous Bimetal Borides Array for Oxygen Evolution Reaction

Chen Wang<sup>+</sup>, Panlong Zhai<sup>+</sup>, Mingyue Xia<sup>+</sup>, Yunzhen Wu, Bo Zhang, Zhuwei Li, Lei Ran, Junfeng Gao,\* Xiaomeng Zhang, Zhaozhong Fan, Licheng Sun and Jungang Hou\*

Abstract: Developing robust oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysts requires significant advances in material design and in-depth understanding for water electrolysis. Herein, we report iridium clusters stabilized surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides on amorphous metal borides array, achieving an ultralow overpotential of 178 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for OER in alkaline medium. The coupling of iridium clusters induced the formation of high valence cobalt species and Ir-O-Co bridge between iridium and oxyhydroxides at the atomic scale, engineering lattice oxygen activation and non-concerted proton-electron transfer to trigger multiple active sites for intrinsic pH-dependent OER activity. The lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism (LOM) was confirmed by in situ <sup>18</sup>O isotope labeling mass spectrometry and chemical recognition of negative peroxo-like species. Theoretical simulations reveal that the OER performance on this catalyst is intrinsically dominated by LOM pathway, facilitating the reaction kinetics. This work not only paves an avenue for the rational design of electrocatalysts, but also serves the fundamental insights into the lattice oxygen participation for promising OER application

#### Introduction

With regard to a sustainable energy future, electrocatalytic water splitting is considered as one of the most promising

[\*] C. Wang, [+] P. Zhai, [+] Y. Wu, B. Zhang, Z. Li, Dr. L. Ran, X. Zhang, Z. Fan, Prof. Dr. L. Sun, Prof. Dr. J. Hou

State Key Laboratory of Fine Chemicals, School of Chemical Engineering, Dalian University of Technology

2, Linggong Road, Dalian 116024 (P. R. China)

E-Mail: jhou@dlut.edu.cn

M. Xia,[+] Prof. Dr. J. Gao

Laboratory of Materials Modification by Laser, Ion and Electron Beams, Ministry of Education, Dalian University of Technology

2, Linggong Road, Dalian 116024 (P. R. China)

E-Mail: gaojf@dlut.edu.cn

Prof. Dr. L. Sun

Center of Artificial Photosynthesis for Solar Fuels, School of Science, Westlake University

Hangzhou 310024 (P. R. China)

School of Engineering Sciences in Chemistry, Biotechnology and Health, KTH Royal Institute of Technology 10044 Stockholm (Sweden)

[+] These authors contributed equally to this work.

Supporting information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under: https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202112870.

strategies to produce hydrogen owing to high reaction efficiency, abundant reactants and green reaction process. [1-4] In the course of electrocatalytic water splitting to produce hydrogen, there is a major bottleneck of oxygen evolution reaction (OER) owing to the sluggish reaction kinetics, as a consequence widely reduces the hydrogen production efficiency. [5-7] To improve OER efficiency, a great number of electrocatalysts were explored, such as metal oxides, [8.9] oxyhydroxides, [10] phosphides, [11] chalcogenides, [12] nitrides, [13] and borides. [14.15] Nevertheless, these materials can still not satisfy the requirements of industrial applications. Therefore, it is extremely urgent to develop high-efficiency electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction.

Among various OER catalysts, 3d transition metal materials have been regarded as promising electrocatalysts in alkaline medium due to the formation of oxyhydroxide intermediates as favorable active sites for OER.[16-21] It is evident to identify the role of the surface reconstruction and termination, regulating the surface structure of the catalysts and the oxidation kinetics. Meanwhile, metal supported catalysts offer a promising approach to optimize the OER activity owe to the interfacial interaction of metals and the supports. Up to now, noble metal oxides, such as iridium (Ir) and ruthenium (Ru) oxides, are the most superior catalysts for OER. [22] A large number of materials present enhanced OER performance by the decoration of metal clusters on the supported electrocatalysts, such as organic molecule, [23] carbon nanotubes,<sup>[24]</sup> metal oxides<sup>[25]</sup> and phosphides.<sup>[26]</sup> Nevertheless, metal borides owe to high electronic conductivity and large density of active-sites are considered as potential OER candidates.<sup>[27]</sup> However, it is not clarified yet to elucidate the mechanism and OER performance of metal-supported electrocatalysts.

Generally, with regard to the conventional adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM), the OER involves four concerted proton-electron transfer steps of the catalysts. [28,29] As for this mechanism, the high activity of the catalysts based on AEM is always achieved through the modulation of the binding strength of reaction intermediates on the surfaces while limited by linear scaling relationship. However, the lattice oxygen-mediated mechanism or lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism (LOM) has been proposed, expediting the direct coupling of lattice oxygen, minimizing the limiting energy barrier and even offering valuable insights upon the design of high-performance OER catalysts, such as  $La_{1-x}Sr_xCoO_{3-\delta}$ , [28] Co-phosphate, [29] Co-Zn oxyhydroxide, nickel-iron-copper metal/metal oxide, 31] and Si-incorporated  $SrCoO_{3-\delta}$ , [32] Enlightened by the above analysis, it is still

a challenging task to elucidate the bottleneck of metalsupported electrocatalysts due to structural complicacy by fundamental insights of the correlated relationship between LOM mechanism and OER performance.

Herein, iridium clusters stabilized surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides on amorphous metal borides array as a typical model was fabricated by electrochemical activation strategy. This electrocatalyst exhibits the ultralow overpotentials of 178 mVat 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> in alkaline medium. The lattice oxygen oxidation (LOM) mechanism was confirmed by in situ <sup>18</sup>O isotope labeling mass spectrometry and chemical recognition of negative peroxo-like species. Theoretical simulations reveal that the OER performance on this catalyst is intrinsically dominated by LOM pathway, facilitating the reaction kinetics. This work paves an avenue to develop latticeoxygen-participated electrocatalysts for practical electrolysis application.

### Results and Discussion

Structure characterization. Iridium clusters stabilized surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides on amorphous metal borides array was fabricated by electrochemical activation strategy. Firstly, amorphous cobalt-nickel borides (denoted as CoNiB) array with different Ni/Co molar ratios was deposited on three-dimensional skeleton of Ni foam (NF) by an electroless plating approach. Secondly, Ir clusters were decorated on CoNiB (denoted as Ir/CoNiB) array through oil bath heating K2IrCl6–ethylene glycol suspension and CoNiB array. Finally, iridium clusters stabilized on selfterminated oxyhydroxides intercalated amorphous metal borides array was synthesized by electrochemical activation strategy. To understand the fundamental mechanism of AEM or LOM by use of this typical Ir/CoNiB catalyst (Scheme 1), it

Scheme 1. Illustration of catalytic mechanism of iridium clusters stabilized surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides on amorphous metal borides.

is essential to elucidate the correlated relationship of surface reconstructed structure and OER performance.

To check the crystalline structure of various materials, Xray diffraction (XRD) patterns show a steamed bread peak at 208, indicating amorphous structure for CoB and CoNiB (Figure S1ab). Only a broad peak appeared after polyol reduction reaction owing to the subsize of Ir clusters, corresponding to the (111) plane of Ir metal (Figure S1c).[33] To trace the morphology, field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) was used. The entire NF is covered by rugged CoB and CoNiB arrays (Figure S2), corresponding to the element mappings (Figure S3–S4) of CoB and CoNiB from energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectra. No obvious variation of surface morphology for Ir/CoNiB (Figure 1 a and Figure S5ab) was observed after the introduction of Ir clusters in comparison of CoNiB (Figure S2). However, two-dimensional (2D) nanosheets were formed on the surface of metal borides after the electrochemical activation process (Figure 1 b and Figure S5cd), indicating the in situ surface reconstruction of metal borides. Based on the analysis of EDX spectra (Figure S6–S9), the element mappings of Ir/ CoNiB array demonstrate the homogeneous distribution of various elements before and after electrochemical activation, presenting the existence of Ir clusters about 1.8 wt%.

In order to get in-depth details for the morphology, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), aberrations-corrected TEM (AC-TEM) and high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HADDF-STEM) were utilized. From TEM analysis, a mass of iridium clusters with an average size about 1.8 nm (Figure S11) were homogeneously dispersed on the surface of CoNiB before electrochemical activation (Figure 1 c). A halo image of concentric circles was presented in the inset of Figure 1 c, manifesting the amorphous structure of CoNiB. The lattice fringes from AC-TEM image possess a dspacing of 0.23 nm with an angle of 708, assigning to (111) plane of iridium clusters (Figure 1 d). After the electrochemical activation, 2D oxyhydroxide nanosheets were presented on the surface of metal borides owe to the surface reconstruction (Figure 1 e), meanwhile the SAED pattern demonstrates the amorphous structure of the surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides. Especially, a large number of iridium species were dispersed on the surface of oxyhydroxide nanosheets (Figure 1 f and Figure S10), corresponding to the homogeneous distribution of Co, Ni, O, and Ir from the element mapping of Ir/CoNiB after electrochemical activation (Figure 1 g). However, the elements of Co, Ni, B, and Ir were determined from Ir/CoNiB before electrochemical activation (Figure 1 h). Moreover, TEM images indicate that CoB and CoNiB array are composed of numerous nanoparticles, presenting a halo image of concentric circles from SAED patterns as a symbol of amorphous structure of CoB and CoNiB (Figure S12), which is in accordance with XRD patterns (Figure S1). Furthermore, the precise quality about 1.8 wt% of Ir element is almost consistent before and after activation, confirming by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES). Therefore, the combined results of XRD patterns, SEM and TEM images, and ICP spectra confirm the formation of iridium clusters stabilized on

Figure 1. Morphological characterizations. a,b, SEM images of Ir/CoNiB (a) before and (b) after electrochemical activation. c,d, TEM image and aberrations-corrected TEM image for Ir/CoNiB before electrochemical activation. e,f, TEM images for Ir/oxyhydroxides from Ir/CoNiB after electrochemical activation. g, Element mapping of HADDF-STEM image for Ir/oxyhydroxides from Ir/CoNiB after electrochemical activation. h, Element mapping of AC-TEM image from Ir/CoNiB before electrochemical activation.

surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides intercalated amorphous metal borides.

As-prepared catalytic materials were also detected by Xray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) to recognize the chemical states of different elements. With regard to CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB before electrochemical activation treatment, the metallic Co and Ni are the dominate states in CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB (Figure S13). The peaks at 777.3 (CoNiB), 777.4 (Ir/ CoNiB), 852.2 (CoNiB) and 852.3 eV (Ir/CoNiB) can be assigned to metallic Co and Ni signals, respectively. The negative shift was observed for Co and Ni signals in comparison of CoB and NiB, [34] indicating the interaction of Co and Ni and the formation of bimetal boride (Figure S13ab). The peak at 187.7 eV is attributed to B 0 from CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB (Figure S13c).[15] In addition, the peaks of oxidized Co, Ni and B as well as O 1s are also obtained (Figure S13a–d), presenting the surface oxidation of bimetal borides. Moreover, the peaks of 61.0 and 64.3 eV are attributed to metallic Ir for Ir/CoNiB (Figure 2 b). Meanwhile, the peaks located at 62.3 eV and 64.8 eV and two

Figure 2. X-ray photoelectron and X-ray absorption characterization. a, Co 2p of CoB, CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB. b, Ir 4f of Ir/CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB. c,d, Ir L<sub>III</sub>-edge XANES spectra (c) and Ir L<sub>III</sub>-edge EXAFS spectra (d) of Ir foil, IrO<sub>2</sub> and Ir/CoNiB. e, Corresponding model-based fittings of Ir EXAFS for Ir/CoNiB and simulated EXAFS spectra. f, In-situ Raman spectra of Ir/CoNiB.

satellites indicate the existence of Ir<sup>IV</sup>.[33] Based on the analysis of XPS spectra, it is evident that Ir clusters were coupled on the surface of CoNiB.

After electrochemical activation treatment, the peaks of metallic Co and Ni disappeared, indicating the obvious surface oxidation of CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB (Figure 2a and Figure S14a). The main peak at 780.3 eV for CoNiB is attributed to Co(III) (Figure 2a). [35,36] The positive shift was observed on Ir/CoNiB after the introduction of Ir clusters in comparison of CoNiB, demonstrating the enhancement of the valence state (higher than a 3+ valence state) of cobalt (Figure 2a). [32] However, there is no shift of nickel for all films (Figure S14a), indicating there is no influence upon nickel by the incorporation of Ir clusters after electrochemical activation. The O 1s peaks located at 529.4 and 532.1 eV of the activated CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB can be indexed to lattice oxygen and adsorbed oxygen or hydroxyl (Figure S14b).[36] The combined analysis of Co, Ni and O XPS spectra prove the formation of metal oxyhydroxide. Moreover, a new peak located at 531.8 eV for the activated Ir/CoNiB, which can be indexed to oxygen vacancies on the surface. As for Ir 4f spectrum of the activated Ir/CoNiB (Figure 2b), the peaks located at 62.5, 65.4, 61.5 and 64.5 eV can be assigned to Ir<sup>III</sup> and  $Ir^{IV,[37]}$  indicating the formation of  $IrO_x$  through surface reconstruction. Surprisingly, there is no any signal for B 1s peak for the activated Ir/CoNiB owing to the surface reconstruction of Ir/CoNiB, which is in accord with the analysis of SEM image (Figure 1b). Thus, iridium clusters were stabilized on surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides from amorphous bimetal borides array by electrochemical activation strategy.

To further reveal the surface reconstruction phenomenon of Ir/CoNiB, in situ Raman spectra was employed. A series of Raman spectra at different potential (1.1-1.5 V vs. RHE) exhibits the dynamic variation process of surface reconstruction, four Raman peaks located at 475, 502, 560 and 608 cm<sup>-1</sup> are recognized as M-O vibrations of metal oxides/(oxy)hydroxides, [38] as shown in Figure 2 f. At the onset potential of 1.1 V vs. RHE, no obvious characteristic peak could be observed, demonstrating the resting state of Ir/CoNiB at this potential. When the anodic potential was regulated up to 1.2 V vs. RHE, Raman peaks of metal oxides/(oxy)hydroxides start to emerge. It is distinct to obtain Raman peaks of 502 and 608 cm<sup>-1</sup> as the characteristic signals of Co-O variations in oxides/(oxy)hydroxides, indicating that the formation of the primary surface reconstructed cobalt oxides/(oxy)hydroxides at low anodic potential. Whereafter, the peaks located at 475 and 560 cm<sup>-1</sup> become gradually evident, corresponding to the Ni-O variations in oxides/(oxy)hydroxides. During the anodic potential from 1.3 to 1.5 V vs. RHE, all Raman signals of M-O variations gradually strengthen, demonstrating the accumulated surface oxides/(oxy)hydroxides. Meanwhile, the broad peak is presented in Raman spectra, referring the formation of amorphous species from oxides/(oxy)hydroxides. Compared to Raman spectrum before and after electrochemical activation of Ir/CoNiB, a broad Raman peak is shown (Figure S15), disclosing that the surface reconstruction is veritable and irreversible.

To gain insight into electronic structure and coordination environment of Ir/CoNiB after electrochemical activation, Xray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy and X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy have been explored. In Ir L<sub>III</sub>-edge XANES spectrum (Fig-

ure 2 c), the white line intensity of Ir/CoNiB was located between Ir foil and IrO<sup>2</sup> , indicating the oxidation electronic structure of Ir element. As shown in Figure 2 d, the local structure environment was determined by the Fourier transform EXAFS curve of Ir/CoNiB. The Ir@O bond lengths are 1.56 and 1.93 c in the first coordinate shell. The peak at 2.63 c is assigned to Ir@Ir scattering in the higher shell.[33] Moreover, the EXAFS fitting analysis was shown in Figure 2 e, corresponding to the structure parameter (Table S1). Therefore, the surface reconstruction was achieved on Ir/ CoNiB after electrochemical activation, forming IrO<sup>x</sup> clusters decorated oxides/(oxy)hydroxides layer as the real active species for OER.

OER performances. The OER performance of different catalysts was tested by a standard three-electrode system in oxygen-saturated 1 M KOH electrolyte. Based on cobalt boride, OER performance of CoNiB gradually increases by the the optimal Ni/Co molar ratio (Figure S16a). After the incorporation of Ir clusters, Ir/CoNiB exhibits the best OER performance in comparison of CoB and CoNiB (Figure 3 a), delivering the ultralow overpotentials of 178 mVand 242 mV at 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> and 100 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , respectively. Under the precise regulation of the content of Ir clusters, the best OER performance with a high current density up to 400 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> at 1.52 V vs. RHE was obtained for Ir/CoNiB with 1.8 wt% Ir clusters (Figure S16b) in comparison of all electrocatalysts (Figure 3 b). From Tafel plot (Figure 3 c), a small slope, 35.1 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> of Ir/CoNiB is lower than those of CoB (85.4 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), CoNiB (75.3 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ) and the reported catalysts (Figure S17 and Table S2),[39–45] suggesting favorable OER kinetics in alkaline electrolyte. The turnover frequency (TOF) represents the intrinsic activity of Ir/CoNiB (Figure 3 d), achieving the highest TOF value of 0.37 s @1 at the overpotential of 300 mV in comparison of the reported catalysts (Table S3).[46–55] The charge transfer resistance (Rct) by electrochemical impedance spectra is closely related to OER performance. From Nyquist plots (Figure 3 e), the Rct of Ir/CoNiB is the smallest among all materials, demonstrating the best conductivity and fast interface Faradaic reaction process after the introduction of Ir clusters. The electrochemically effective surface area (ECSA) is used to manifest the origin of the drastic improvement of OER activity by the calculation of electrochemical double-layer capacitances (Cdl) of different materials (Figure S18). The Cdl value of Ir/CoNiB is 27.4 mFcm@<sup>2</sup> (Figure S19), higher than those of CoB (3.2 mFcm@<sup>2</sup> ) and CoNiB (6.8 mFcm@<sup>2</sup> ). Meanwhile, the anodic current of Ir/CoNIiB, CoNiB and CoB are normalized by ECSA. The ECSA-normalized current of Ir/CoNiB is distinctly higher than those of CoNiB and CoB (Figure S20), indicating the excellent OER intrinsic activity. The amount of oxygen was measured in comparison of actual quantity against theoretical quantity (Figure S21), revealing that the Faradaic efficiency is 99% during OER process. For the stability, there is no apparent attenuation of the current densities of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> and 100 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> over 100 h, demonstrating remarkable long-term stability for Ir/CoNiB (Figure 3 f). Based on above analysis, Ir/CoNiB is a prominent candidate for efficient electrocatalytic water splitting.

LOM identification. In order to disclose in-depth insight into Ir/CoNiB, it is essential to elucidate the reaction mechanism. Among different OER reaction mechanisms, the lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism (LOM) is a nonconcerted proton-electron transfer pathway in comparison of conventional AEM pathway, originating from the mismatch between the electron transfer and the affinity at the oxide/ electrolyte interface. [28, 30] As shown in Figure 4ab, the polar-

Figure 3. OER electrocatalytic performance. a,b,c, OER polarization curves (a), overpotentials of typical current density (b) and Tafel slopes (c) of various metal borides. d, TOF values of Ir/CoNiB (blue dots), together with reported catalysts. e, Nyquist plots at overpotential of 250 mV. f, Current density versus time curves of Ir/CoNiB.

Figure 4. pH dependence of OER activity. a,b, The polarization curves of CoNiB (a) and Ir/CoNiB (b). c, Current densities of CoNiB and Ir/CoNiB at 1.5 V vs. RHE as a function of pH value. d, The detected MS signals of generated oxygen molecule using <sup>18</sup>O isotope-labeled catalysts, MS signals were normalized by initial intensity of <sup>16</sup>O<sup>2</sup> . e,f, The polarization curves and derived Tafel slopes (inset) of CoNiB (e) and Ir/CoNiB (f) in 1 M KOH and 1 M TMAOH.

ization curves of CoNiB at different pH value exhibit tiny variation, while the OER activities of Ir/CoNiB increases significantly by increase of pH value from 12.5 to 14. As shown in Figure 4 c, the current densities at 1.5 V vs. RHE for Ir/CoNiB represent distinct pH-dependent behavior at the RHE scale.

Different from AEM pathway, peroxo-like (O<sup>2</sup> 2@ ) and superoxo-like (O<sup>2</sup>@ ) negative species would be generated through LOM pathway. [30] Based on this phenomenon, the tetramethylammonium cation (TMA<sup>+</sup> ) was introduced as a probe, which could strongly bind with negative species, thereby affecting OER activities that obey LOM pathway. Compared with the reaction system of 1 M KOH, the OER activity of Ir/CoNiB and Tafel slope decreased in 1 M TMAOH (Figure 4 f), while there is a negligible variation upon OER activity and Tafel slope of CoNiB (Figure 4 e and Figure S22). Thus, the above-mentioned analysis indirectly proves that the OER mechanism converts from AEM to LOM pathway after the introduction of Ir cluster. In order to distinctly prove LOM pathway and clarify the origin of O<sup>2</sup> during OER, the <sup>18</sup>O isotope-labeled experiment was implemented. The Ir/CoNiB electrode was labeled by <sup>18</sup>O through the electroactivation in <sup>18</sup>O-labeled 0.1 M KOH electrolyte to generate M<sup>18</sup>OxH<sup>y</sup> species. The <sup>18</sup>O labeled Ir/CoNiB electrode was employed for OER electrocatalysis, corresponding to the generated gas tested by gas chromatography-mass spectrometer (GC-MS). As shown in Figure 4 d, the significant increase upon the intensity of the <sup>16</sup>O <sup>18</sup>O signal for mass spectra (MS) was observed for Ir/CoNiB, while there is an unchanged <sup>18</sup>O<sup>2</sup> signal for Ir/CoNiB in comparison of natural abundance, indicating the half O source in O<sup>2</sup> is from the lattice oxygen oxidation. Thus, GC-MS spectrum directly indicate the electrocatalytic OER mechanism of Ir/CoNiB is ascribed to LOM pathway.

To further explore LOM of Ir/CoNiB, Bader charge analysis was employed to estimate the electron density of atoms. Based on the Bader charge analysis, the electron transfer take place in Co, O and Ir after the introduction of Ir, which is consistent with the results of XPS analysis. The increase valence states of Co improve the covalency of Co-O, enhance the orbital hybridization, then inducing the transformation of reaction mechanism from AEM to LOM. Thus, the above-mentioned results manifest the excellent OER activity of Ir/CoNiB is intrinsically dominated by LOM mechanism.

Overall water splitting performance. Hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) performance of different catalysts was also conducted, reaching the low overpotential of 38 mV at 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> and the low Tafel slope of 36.5 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> (Figure S23–S24 and Table S4). Inspired by HER and OER performance, a two-electrode configuration electrolyzer (Ir/ CoNiB k Ir/CoNiB) was employed as functional catalyst. The polarization curves of Ir/CoNiB k Ir/CoNiB two-electrode system are shown in Figure 5 a, delivering the ultralow voltage of 1.46 V at 10 mA cm@<sup>2</sup> . Especially, Ir/CoNiB k Ir/CoNiB system achieves the cell voltage of 1.77 V at 500 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH at 258C, while presents the industrial current densities of 500 and 1000 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> with the cell voltages of 1.66 and 1.72 V in 6 M KOH at 608C, which is superior than most reported electrocatalysts (Table S5). Interestingly, assynthesized Ir/CoNiB k Ir/CoNiB system presents the performance of OER, HER and overall water splitting as well as the

Figure 5. Overall water splitting performance. a, Polarization curves of two-electrode system in 1 M KOH at 258C. b, Polarization curves of two-electrode system in 6 M KOH at 608C. c, Current density versus time curves of two-electrode system.

Figure 6. Theoretical OER activities on CoNiOOH and Ir/CoNiOOH. a,b, Schematic of (a) AEM pathway for CoNiOOH and (b) LOM pathway for Ir/CoNiOOH. c,d, Gibbs free energy diagram of (c) AEM pathway for CoNiOOH and (d) LOM pathway for Ir/CoNiOOH. The lavender box step is the rate determining step.

stability at high current densities. More importantly, the activity of overall water splitting can be maintained for more than 300 h without obvious decay at the large current density of 500 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH at 258C (Figure 5 c), providing a promising approach to develop high-performance Ir/CoNiB catalysts for large-scale water splitting. Moreover, FE-SEM and TEM images and XPS spectra were employed to explore the morphology and chemical states variation of Ir/ CoNiB after long-term electrocatalysis (Figure S25–S26), indicating the outstanding stability of Ir/CoNiB electrocatalyst.

Theoretical calculations. To further clarify the in-depth mechanism of Ir/CoNiB, density functional theory calculations (DFT) were conducted to capture the Gibbs free energies of each step for different pathway of CoNiOOH and Ir/ CoNiOOH as active reaction species. The AEM and LOM pathways for Ir/CoNiOOH as the model due to surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides on amorphous Ir/CoNiB array have been explored. The AEM pathway of Ir/CoNOOH (Figure S28), includes four elementary steps and experiences three different intermediates which are \*OH, \*O and \*OOH (the asterisks represent the active sites on electrocatalyst). As for LOM pathway for Ir/CoNiOOH (Figure 6), the step I is different compared with AEM pathway, especially, the peroxo-like (O<sup>2</sup> 2@ ) species are produced through O@O bond coupling between absorbed O and lattice O, which could be proved by use of the tetramethylammonium cation (TMA<sup>+</sup> ) detection (Figure 4 e,f). Then the Ir/CoNiB suffers a hydroxide nucleophilic attacking (step II) and oxygen releasing (step III) which half O source comes from lattice oxygen, while an oxygen vacancy leaves (Figure 6), in agreement with GC-MS test (Figure 4 d). Finally, two subsequent concerted proton-electron transfer steps (step IVand V) occur to regenerate the O– M–OH surface and the LOM pathway, completing a circulation (Figure 6). The calculated Gibbs free energy changes along the reaction coordinate via AEM and LOM pathways for Ir/CoNiOOH are shown in Figure S28 and Figure 6, indicating that it is more thermodynamically favorable to conduct OER for the Ir/CoNiB through LOM pathway. The AEM and LOM pathways for CoNiOOH as the model due to surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides on amorphous CoNiB array also have been explored (Figure S27 and Figure 6). Apparently, all OER reactions steps of CoNiB become favorable through AEM pathway (Figure S27 and Figure 6). WhatQs more, the overpotential of the rate-determining step for Ir/CoNiB through LOM is only 0.66 eV, much lower than CoNiB (1.08 eV, Figure 6). Theoretical simulations reveal that the OER performance on Ir/CoNiB is intrinsically dominated by LOM pathway.

#### Conclusion

In summary, we developed iridium clusters stabilized on surface reconstructed oxyhydroxides intercalated amorphous metal borides array by electrochemical activation strategy. This state-of-the-art amorphous metal borides based electrocatalyst exhibits the ultralow overpotentials of 178 mV at 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> in alkaline medium. The coupling of iridium clusters induced the formation of high valence cobalt species and Ir–O–Co bridge between iridium and oxyhydroxides at the atomic scale, engineering lattice oxygen activation and non-concerted proton-electron transfer to trigger multiple active sites for intrinsic pH-dependent OER activity. The lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism was confirmed by in situ <sup>18</sup>O isotope labeling mass spectrometry and chemical recognition of negative peroxo-like species. Theoretical simulations reveal that the OER performance on this catalyst is intrinsically dominated by LOM pathway. This work paves an avenue to explore the lattice-oxygen-participated electrocatalysts for practical electrolysis applications.

#### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21972015, 22088102, 12074053), Young top talents project of Liaoning Province (No. XLYC1907147, XLYC1907163), Joint Research Fund Liaoning-Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science (No. 2019JH3/30100003), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. DUT20TD06) and the Liaoning Revitalization Talent Program (XLYC2008032).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Stichwçrter: electrocatalytic water splitting · iridium clusters · lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism · metal borides · oxygen evolution reaction

- [1] J. A. Turner, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1103197) 2004, 305, 972 974.
- [2] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, Science 2017, 355, eaad4998.
- [3] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, [Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11475) 2012, 488, 294 303.
- [4] X. Zou, Y. Zhang, Chem. [Soc. Rev.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00448E) 2015, 44, 5148 5180.
- [5] J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, Chem. [Soc. Rev.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00607A) 2020, 49, 2196 – 2214.
- [6] B. M. Hunter, H. B. Gray, A. M. Muller, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00398) Rev. 2016, 116, 14120 [– 14136.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.6b00398)
- [7] Y. Sun, H. Liao, J. Wang, B. Chen, S. Sun, S. J. H. Ong, S. Xi, C. Diao, Y. Du, J. O. Wang, M. B. H. Breese, S. Li, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-0465-6) 2020, 3, 554 – 563.
- [8] H. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Pi, Q. Shao, Y. Tan, X. Huang, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201812545) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201812545) Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 2316 – 2320; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201812545) 2019, 131, 2338 [– 2342.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201812545)
- [9] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y. L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2695) 2017, 9, 457 – 465.
- [10] M. Chen, Y. Xie, J. X. Wu, H. Huang, J. Teng, D. Wang, Y. Fan, J. J. Jiang, H. P. Wang, C. Y. Su, J. [Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA00380K) A 2019, 7, 10217 [– 10224.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA00380K)
- [11] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, C. Das, C. Walter, C. Gçbel, V. Gutkin, D. Schmeiber, M. Driess, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.6b02666) 2017, 7, 103 – 109.
- [12] J. Yin, J. Jin, H. Lin, Z. Yin, J. Li, M. Lu, L. Guo, P. Xi, Y. Tang, C. H. Yan, Adv. Sci. 2020, 7[, 1903070.](https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.201903070)
- [13] Y. Hou, M. Qiu, M. G. Kim, P. Liu, G. Nam, T. Zhang, X. Zhuang, B. Yang, J. Cho, M. Chen, C. Yuan, L. Lei, X. Feng, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 1392.
- [14] Y. R. Hong, K. M. Kim, J. H. Ryu, S. Mhin, J. Kim, G. Ali, K. Y. Chung, S. Kang, H. Han, [Adv. Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202004330) Mater. 2020, 30, 2004330.
- [15] T. Tan, P. Han, H. Cong, G. Cheng, W. Luo, [ACS Sustainable](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b00258) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b00258) Eng. 2019, 7, 5620 – 5625.
- [16] M. Kim, B. Lee, H. Ju, S. W. Lee, J. Kim, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, 1901977.
- [17] D. Liu, H. Ai, J. Li, M. Fang, M. Chen, D. Liu, X. Du, P. Zhou, F. Li, K. H. Lo, Y. Tang, S. Chen, L. Wang, G. Xing, H. Pan, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202002464) Energy Mater. 2020, 10[, 2002464](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202002464).
- [18] Y. Duan, Z. Y. Yu, S. J. Hu, X. S. Zheng, C. T. Zhang, H. H. Ding, B. C. Hu, Q. Q. Fu, Z. L. Yu, X. Zheng, J. F. Zhu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201909939) Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 15772 – 15777; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201909939) 2019, 131, 15919 – 15924.
- [19] J. Wang, S. J. Kim, J. Liu, Y. Gao, S. Choi, J. Han, H. Shin, S. Jo, J. Kim, F. Ciucci, H. Kim, Q. Li, W. Yang, X. Long, S. Yang, S.-P. Cho, K. H. Chae, M. G. Kim, H. Kim, J. Lim, Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00578-1) 2021, 4, 212 [– 222.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00578-1)
- [20] E. Fabbri, M. Nachtegaal, T. Binninger, X. Cheng, B. J. Kim, J. Durst, F. Bozza, T. Graule, R. Schaublin, L. Wiles, M. Pertoso, N. Danilovic, K. E. Ayers, T. J. Schmidt, Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4938) 2017, 16, 925 – [931](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat4938).
- [21] C. Baeumer, J. Li, Q. Lu, A. Y. Liang, L. Jin, H. P. Martins, T. Duchon, M. Gloss, S. M. Gericke, M. A. Wohlgemuth, M. Giesen, E. E. Penn, R. Dittmann, F. Gunkel, R. Waser, M. Bajdich, S. Nemsak, J. T. Mefford, W. C. Chueh, Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-020-00877-1) 2021, 20, 674 [– 682](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-020-00877-1).
- [22] Z. Ma, Y. Zhang, S. Liu, W. Xu, L. Wu, Y. C. Hsieh, P. Liu, Y. Zhu, K. Sasaki, J. N. Renner, K. E. Ayers, R. R. Adzic, J. X. Wang, J. [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2017.10.062) Chem. 2018, 819, 296 – 305.
- [23] Y. Peng, Q. Liu, B. Lu, T. He, F. Nichols, X. Hu, T. Huang, G. Huang, L. Guzman, Y. Ping, S. Chen, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03747) 2021, 11, 1179 – [1188](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03747).
- [24] H. Hu, F. M. D. Kazim, Z. Ye, Y. Xie, Q. Zhang, K. Qu, J. Xu, W. Cai, S. Xiao, Z. Yang, J. [Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA07416K) A 2020, 8, 20168 – 20174.

- [25] C. Cai, M. Wang, S. Han, Q. Wang, Q. Zhang, Y. Zhu, X. Yang, D. Wu, X. Zu, G. E. Sterbinsky, Z. Feng, M. Gu, [ACS Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04656) 2021, 11, 123 [– 130.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04656)
- [26] K. Jiang, M. Luo, M. Peng, Y. Yu, Y. R. Lu, T. S. Chan, P. Liu, F. M. F. de Groot, Y. Tan, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 2701.
- [27] S. Gupta, M. K. Patel, A. Miotello, N. Patel, [Adv. Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201906481) Mater. 2020, 30[, 1906481](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201906481).
- [28] J. T. Mefford, X. Rong, A. M. Abakumov, W. G. Hardin, S. Dai, A. M. Kolpak, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, Nat. Commun. 2016, 7, 11053.
- [29] Y. Surendranath, M. W. Kanan, D. G. Nocera, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja106102b) Soc. 2010, 132, 16501 [– 16509](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja106102b).
- [30] Z. F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0355-9) 2019, 4, 329 – 338.
- [31] P. Zhang, L. Li, D. Nordlund, H. Chen, L. Fan, B. Zhang, X. Sheng, Q. Daniel, L. Sun, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 381.
- [32] Y. Pan, X. Xu, Y. Zhong, L. Ge, Y. Chen, J. M. Veder, D. Guan, R. OQHayre, M. Li, G. Wang, H. Wang, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 2002.
- [33] G. Zhao, P. Li, N. Cheng, S. X. Dou, W. Sun, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202000872) 2020, 32, [2000872.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202000872)
- [34] N. Xu, G. Cao, Z. Chen, Q. Kang, H. Dai, P. Wang, J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02644G) Chem. A 2017, 5, 12379 [– 12384](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02644G).
- [35] S. H. Ye, Z. X. Shi, J. X. Feng, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201712549) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201712549) Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 2672 – 2676; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201712549) 2018, 130, 2702 [– 2706](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201712549).
- [36] H. Sun, L. Chen, Y. Lian, W. Yang, L. Lin, Y. Chen, J. Xu, D. Wang, X. Yang, M. H. Rummerli, J. Guo, J. Zhong, Z. Deng, Y. Jiao, Y. Peng, S. Qiao, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202006784) 2020, 32, 2006784.
- [37] H. S. Oh, H. N. Nong, T. Reier, A. Bergmann, M. Gliech, J. Ferreira de Araujo, E. Willinger, R. Schlçgl, D. Teschner, P. Strasser, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 12552 [– 12563.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07199)
- [38] J. Zhang, J. Liu, L. Xi, Y. Yu, N. Chen, S. Sun, W. Wang, K. M. Lange, B. Zhang, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.8b00752) Soc. 2018, 140, 3876 – 3879.
- [39] Y. Sun, K. Xu, Z. Wei, H. Li, T. Zhang, X. Li, W. Cai, J. Ma, H. J. Fan, Y. Li, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802121) 2018, 30, 1802121.
- [40] J. X. Feng, S. H. Ye, H. Xu, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201600054) 2016, 28, 4698 [– 4703](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201600054).
- [41] W. Wang, Y. Jiang, Y. Hu, Y. Liu, J. Li, S. Chen, [ACS Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b21534) Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b21534) 2020, 12, 11600 – 11606.
- [42] Y. P. Zhu, T. Y. Ma, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201610413) Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 1324 [– 1328](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201610413); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201610413) 2017, 129, 1344 – 1348.

- [43] H. Zhang, X. Li, A. H-hnel, V. Naumann, C. Lin, S. Azimi, S. L. Schweizer, A. W. Maijenburg, R. B. Wehrspohn, [Adv. Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201706847) Mater. 2018, 28[, 1706847.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201706847)
- [44] Y. Lu, C. Li, Y. Zhang, X. Cao, G. Xie, M. Wang, D. Peng, K. Huang, B. Zhang, T. Wang, W. Junsheng, Y. Huang, Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.105800) 2021, 83[, 105800.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.105800)
- [45] P. W. Menezes, C. Walter, B. Chakraborty, J. N. Hausmann, I. Zaharieva, A. Frick, E. von Hauff, H. Dau, M. Driess, [Adv.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202004098) Mater. 2021, 33[, 2004098.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202004098)
- [46] D. Mullangi, V. Dhavale, S. Shalini, S. Nandi, S. Collins, T. Woo, S. Kurungot, R. Vaidhyanathan, [Adv. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201600110) Mater. 2016, 6, [1600110](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201600110).
- [47] J. W. D. Ng, M. Garc&a-Melchor, M. Bajdich, P. Chakthranont, C. Kirk, A. Vojvodic, T. F. Jaramillo, Nat. Energy 2016, 1, 16053.
- [48] N. W. Yang, D. Chen, P. Cui, T. Lu, H. Liu, C. Hu, L. Xu, J. Yang, [SmartMat](https://doi.org/10.1002/smm2.1032) 2021, 2, 234 – 245.
- [49] X. Ding, H. Huang, Q. Wan, X. Guan, Y. Fang, S. Lin, D. Chen, Z. Xie, J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.001) Chem. 2021, 62, 415 – 422
- [50] X. Wang, T. Ouyang, L. Wang, J. Zhong, Z. Liu, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202000690) Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 6492 [– 6499](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202000690); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202000690) 2020, 132, 6554 – [6561](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202000690).
- [51] J. Wang, K. Li, H. X. Zhong, D. Xu, Z. L. Wang, Z. Jiang, Z. J. Wu, X. B. Zhang, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201504358) Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 10530 – 10534; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201504358) 2015, 127, 10676 – 10680.
- [52] X. Li, L. Xiao, L. Zhou, Q. Xu, J. Weng, J. Xu, B. Liu, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202008514) Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 21106 [– 21113](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202008514); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202008514) 2020, 132, 21292 [– 21299.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202008514)
- [53] W. Huang, C. Peng, J. Tang, F. Diao, M. Yesibolati, H. Sun, C. Engelbrekt, J. Zhang, X. Xiao, K. S. Mølhave, J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.05.030) Chem. 2022, 65[, 78 –](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.05.030) 88
- [54] Q. Wang, L. Shang, X. Sun-Waterhouse, T. Zhang, G. Waterhouse, [SmartMat](https://doi.org/10.1002/smm2.1033) 2021, 2, 154 – 175.
- [55] T. Ouyang, X. Wang, X. Mai, A. Chen, Z. Tang, Z. Liu, [Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202004533) Chem. Int. Ed. 2020, 59, 11948 [– 11957;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202004533) [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202004533) 2020, 132, 12046 [– 12055.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202004533)

Manuskript erhalten: 21. September 2021 Akzeptierte Fassung online: 9. Oktober 2021 Endggltige Fassung online: 17. November 2021