---
source: Xiong 等 - 2017 - One‐Step Fabrication of Monolithic Electrodes Comprising Co9 S8 Particles Supp.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 26.135s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:14:54.263148Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** One-step fabrication of monolithic electrodes comprising Co9S8 particles supported on cobalt foam for efficient and durable oxygen evolution reaction

**Authors:** Dehua Xiong, Qingqing Zhang, Sitaramanjaneya Mouli Thalluri, Junyuan Xu, Wei Li, Xiuli Fu, and Lifeng Liu

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *Chem. Eur. J.* 10.1002/chem.201701391

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/chem.201701391

**Supported by**

WILEY-VCH

## **FULL PAPER**

# One-step fabrication of monolithic electrodes comprising Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> particles supported on cobalt foam for efficient and durable oxygen evolution reaction\*

\*Dedicated to Prof. Sishen Xie on the occasion of his 75th birthday.

Dehua Xiong,<sup>[a,b]</sup> Qingqing Zhang,<sup>[b]</sup> Sitaramanjaneya Mouli Thalluri,<sup>[a]</sup> Junyuan Xu,<sup>[a]</sup> Wei Li,<sup>[a]</sup> Xiuli Fu <sup>[c]</sup> and Lifeng Liu\*<sup>[a]</sup>

Abstract: We report a very easy and cost-effective approach to the fabrication of monolithic Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> water oxidation electrodes (Co@Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>), which is fabricated by one-step hydrothermal treatment of commercially available cobalt foam in the presence of thiourea. The morphology, crystal structure, microstructure, and composition of asfabricated Co@Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> electrodes are examined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscope (TEM), and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and their electrochemical properties are investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronopotentiometry (CP), chronoamperometry (CA), and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). When used to catalyze the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in alkaline solution, the Co@Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> electrode with an optimal Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> loading exhibits outstanding catalytic activity, requiring a low overpotential of 350 mV to deliver an anodic current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and showing fast kinetics for OER with a small Tafel slope (55 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and charge transfer resistance (0.44  $\Omega$  cm<sup>-2</sup>), which outperforms many sulfide-based OER catalysts and some state-ofthe-art noble metal catalysts recently reported in the literature. Importantly, the electrodes show excellent long-term stability, capable of operating at both a low current density and a high current density relevant to industrial water electrolysis up to 100 hours.

#### Introduction

Electrocatalytic water splitting into hydrogen  $(H_2)$  and oxygen  $(O_2)$  is a promising and appealing solution to renewable energy storage. Presently, one of major challenges to address for widespread deployment of water electrolyzers is to develop efficient, low-cost, and durable electrocatalysts for both the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), in order to make the electrolyzed  $H_2$  fuel economically competitive. Besides economic consideration, the

catalysts must consist of earth-abundant elements since water electrolyzers would need to be deployed in the future on a large scale commensurate with global demand. In such cases, noble metal catalysts such as Pt and RuO<sub>2</sub>/IrO<sub>2</sub>, are obviously not the best candidates of choice due to their prohibitive cost and scarcity even if they are highly active towards the HER and the OER, respectively. Hence, considerable research efforts have been devoted to transition metal (TM) based electrocatalysts in recent years.<sup>1-2</sup>

Compared to the HER, the OER involves a multi-step protoncoupled electron transfer process and is more kinetically and thermodynamically demanding, and therefore is regarded as the "bottleneck" of water electrolysis. Recent progress in TM-based catalysts has shown that the OER performance of many TM oxides, hydroxides, chalcogenides and phosphides has already been favorably comparable or superior to that of the state-of-theart RuO<sub>2</sub>/IrO<sub>2</sub> catalysts.<sup>3-14</sup> In particular, cobalt sulfides (Co-S) with various polymorphs have recently attracted considerable attention for use to catalyze the OER because of their low-cost, high catalytic activity and expected long-term operational stability. 15-26 However, Co-S usually possesses poor electrical conductivity that is not favorable for electrocatalytic reactions. To overcome this problem, composite catalysts consisting of Co-S nanoparticles (NPs) and highly conductive carbon materials have been developed. 17-19,21-26 For instance, Shanmugam and coworkers reported the synthesis of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> NPs dispersed on N,Scodoped graphene oxide (N,S-GO) by solid-state thermolysis at 600 °C. The resulting Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> (600)/N,S-GO catalysts showed an overpotential  $(\eta)$  of 400 mV vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) to deliver a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>( $\eta_{10}$ ), and a Tafel slope of 96 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for the OER in alkaline solution. 18 Despite remarkable improvement in OER activity, these composite catalysts must be immobilized on a current collector using a polymeric binder. The introduction of polymeric binders may not only increase the series resistance of the electrode, but also block some of active sites resulting in reduced activity. Moreover, the powder-like catalysts are prone to lose their physical contact with the current collector in the case a large electrolysis current/potential is applied, owing to the violent evolution of gas bubbles that tend to push the catalysts away from the conductive support. As a result, a long-term operational stability, which is practically important for water splitting, cannot be expected. In this sense, a monolithic electrode that directly integrates active electrocatalysts onto the current collector would be a better alternative. In a monolithic electrode, catalysts are directly grown from the conductive substrate forming a monolith with the

<sup>[</sup>a] Dr. D.H. Xiong, Dr. S. M. Thalluri, Dr. J.Y. Xu, Dr. W. Li, Dr. L.F. Liu International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory (INL), Av. Mestre Jose Veiga, 4715-330 Braga, Portugal E-mail: lifeng,liu@inl.int (L.F. Liu).

<sup>[</sup>b] Dr. D.H. Xiong, Q.Q. Zhang State Key Laboratory of Silicate Materials for Architectures, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan 430070, P. R. China

<sup>[</sup>c] Prof. X.L. Fu State Key Laboratory of Information Photonics and Optical Communications, and School of Science, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, P.R. China

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under http://dx.doi.org/10.1002xxxxx

substrate. Therefore, electrodes are much more robust over longterm operation, particularly under high potential/current conditions.

 In this work, we report for the first time a self-supported monolithic electrode comprising Co9S<sup>8</sup> sub-micrometer particles uniformly dispersed on a porous metallic cobalt foam (Co@Co9S8), which was fabricated by a very simple hydrothermal treatment of commercially available cobalt foam (CF) in the presence of thiourea. The as-fabricated Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> monolithic electrode with an optimal loading of Co9S<sup>8</sup> catalysts exhibits outstanding catalytic activity for the OER in alkaline solution, requiring a low overpotential of 350 mV to attain an anodic current density 10 mA cm-2 and showing fast kinetics for OER with a small Tafel slope and charge transfer resistance. Importantly, the electrode shows excellent long-term stability at both a low current density (20 mA cm-2 ) and a high current density (100 mA cm-2 ) relevant to industrial water electrolysis.

#### **Results and discussion**

**Figure 1** SEM images of (a) the bare Co foam and (b) Co@Co9S8-180 electrodes. (c) EDX spectrum of Co@Co9S8-180. Inset: SEM image. (d) XRD patterns of the electrodes. (e) Co 2p and (f) S 2p XPS spectra of Co@Co9S8- 180.

 Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes were prepared by hydrothermal processing of commercially available CF in aqueous solution of thiourea. To investigate the effect of Co9S<sup>8</sup> loadings on electrocatalytic performance, the hydrothermal treatment was carried out at 180 and 220 °C (hereafter denoted as Co@Co9S8- 180 and Co@Co9S8-220), resulting in a Co9S<sup>8</sup> loading mass of 1.1 and 9.7 mg cm-2 , respectively. **Figure 1a** shows a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of a bare CF, featuring a smooth surface covered with micrometer-sized holes (**Figure S1**). After hydrothermal processing at 180 °C for 12 h, the surface of CF becomes rough (**Figure S2**), on which uniformly distributed particles with diameters of 50200 nm can be clearly seen (**Figure 1b**). Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) analysis confirms the presence of both Co and S elements (**Figure 1c**), and the C signal in the spectrum stems from the conductive carbon tape used for SEM observation. Samples prepared at 220 °C show very similar morphology except that the particle size is a bit larger (**Figure S3**). A close inspection of the cross-section of ligaments displays that hydrothermal processing actually led to the formation of a continuous particulate film on the surface of CF, the thickness of which is approximately 500 nm for Co@Co9S8-180 (**Figure S4**) and ca. 1.9 µm for Co@Co9S8-220 (**Figure S5**), respectively. SEM-EDX elemental mapping examination reveals that both Co and S elements are homogeneously distributed over the particulate film (**Figures S4** and **S5**). In appearance, the CF turned to dark yellow from the initial light grey after the hydrothermal treatment (**Figure S6**), due to the light absorption of the formed cobalt sulfide layer.

 The nitrogen (N2) adsorption/desorption porosimetry was used to investigate the specific surface area and porous structure of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes. Both Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 show a type II isotherm with a hysteresis loop indicating the existence of mesopores (**Figure S7a**). The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area is 21.9 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 for Co@Co9S8-180 and 1.9 m<sup>2</sup> g −1 for Co@Co9S8-220, respectively. Moreover, both Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 exhibit a multimodal pore size distribution (**Figure S7b**), with a maxima centered at ca. 15 and 3.1 nm for Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220, respectively.

 The crystal phase of both the bare CF and Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> was examined by X-ray diffractometry (XRD, **Figure 1d**). The Co foam was confirmed to be a mixture of face-centered cubic Co (fcc-Co, JCPDS no. 15-0806) and hexagonal close-packed Co (hcp-Co, JCPDS no. 05-0727), as evidenced by the diffraction peaks located at 44.2°, 47.3°, 51.5° and 75.8°. After hydrothermal processing at 180 °C, new diffraction peaks located at 29.9°, 31.3° and 52.1° appeared, which can be perfectly indexed to the cubic Co9S<sup>8</sup> phase (JCPDS no. 86-2273). No peaks from other Co-S polymorphs were observed. Increasing the hydrothermal treatment temperature to 220 °C didn't introduce new phases either, but the intensities of Co9S<sup>8</sup> diffraction peaks become stronger than those shown in Co@Co9S8-180 (**Figure S8**).

To investigate the surface chemical states in more detail, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) study was performed. A survey XPS spectrum of Co@Co9S8-180 demonstrates that the sample consists of Co and S, consistent with the above EDX result (**Figure S9**), while C and O are originated from surface absorbent under ambient conditions. The fitting results of Co 2p and S 2p spectra are shown in **Figures 1e** and **1f**, respectively. The core level of Co 2p can be de-convoluted into two shakeup satellites (denoted as "Sat.") and two spin-orbit doublets. The first doublet appearing at 781.0 and 796.8 eV are assigned to 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Co2+ , while the second doublet appearing at 778.7 and 793.8 eV can be ascribed to 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of Co3+ . This agrees well with previous reports and confirms the formation of the Co9S<sup>8</sup> phase. <sup>23</sup> **Figure 1f** presents the core-level spectrum of S 2p with two main peaks and one shake-up satellite, in which the binding energy values of 161.7 and 162.9 eV correspond to S 2p3/2 and S 2p1/2, respectively, arising from the Co-S bonding.<sup>27</sup>

To further examine the microstructure and composition of individual Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) investigation was carried out. **Figure 2a** shows a low magnification TEM image, where interconnected sub-micrometer sized particles can be clearly seen. High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) analysis illustrates that these particles are highly crystallized, as evidenced in **Figure 2b**, and the measured interplanar spacing is ca. 0.55 nm, corresponding to the lattice distance of (111) crystal planes of cubic Co9S8. Fast Fourier-Transformation (FFT) of this HRTEM image shows a well-defined spotted pattern that can be assigned to the diffractions along [310] zone axis (**Figure 2b**, inset). Extensive TEM-EDX analyses confirm that the particles consist exclusively of Co and S (**Figure 2c**), consistent with the above SEM-EDX results (**Figures 1c** and **S3**), and the Cu peak originates from the TEM grid used. Furthermore, elemental mapping was performed in the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) mode. **Figures 2e-f** show the HAADF-STEM image, Co and S elemental maps of a representative particle aggregate, where Co and S are observed to uniformly distribute over the aggregate.

**Figure 2** TEM characterization of Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles. (a) Low-magnification and (b) high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images, (c) EDX spectrum. (d–f) HAADF-STEM image and elemental maps of Co and S. Scale bars: 300 nm.

The electrocatalytic activity of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes towards the OER was evaluated in O2-saturated 1.0 M KOH solution using cyclic voltammetry (CV). **Figure 3a** shows the CV curves of Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 electrodes. For comparison, the OER activity of a bare CF was also measured. The bare CF only shows a very small anodic current up to 1.7 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). After hydrothermal treatment, the anodic current density of electrodes is remarkably improved. From the reduction branch of the CV curves, the Co@Co9S8-180 shows a low onset potential (the potential at which the anodic current density is 1 mA cm-2 ) of 1.56 V vs. RHE (i.e., *η*on = 330 mV), and can reach 10 mA cm-2 at 1.58 V (i.e., *η*<sup>10</sup> = 350 mV, **Figure S10**), which exhibits performance comparable to or better than many other sulfide OER catalysts recently reported in the literature, such as Co9S8(600)/N,S-GO (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 400 mV),<sup>18</sup> N-Co9S8/graphene (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 409 mV), <sup>19</sup> Co9S<sup>8</sup> NPs (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 340 mV),<sup>23</sup> Co9S8/S-C-800 (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 339 mV),<sup>24</sup> ultrathin Co3S<sup>4</sup> nanosheets (*η*on = 355 mV),<sup>26</sup> bulk Co3S<sup>4</sup> (*η*on = 590 mV), <sup>26</sup> Co9S8@MoS2/CNFs (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 430 mV) and Co9S8/CNFs (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 512 mV),<sup>28</sup> hollow Co3S<sup>4</sup> nanosheets (*η*on = 363 mV),<sup>29</sup> Co/Co9S<sup>8</sup> core-shell structures anchored on S,N-co-doped porous graphene (Co/Co9S8@SNGS-900, *η*<sup>10</sup> = 400 mV ), <sup>30</sup> amorphous CoSe/Ti (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 292 mV),<sup>31</sup> NiS<sup>2</sup> nanoarray/Ti (*η*<sup>100</sup> = 420 mV),<sup>32</sup> NiSe<sup>2</sup> NPs/Ti (*η*<sup>20</sup> = 295 mV),<sup>33</sup> and Ni3S<sup>2</sup> particle film grown on nickel foam (*η*<sup>100</sup> = 431 mV),<sup>34</sup> Moreover, the OER activity of Co@Co9S8-180 also outperforms that of some state-of-the-art noble metal catalysts including nanoparticulate RuO<sup>2</sup> (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 38020 mV) and IrO<sup>2</sup> (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 38010 mV),<sup>35</sup> RuO<sup>2</sup> supported on N-doped CNTs (*η*<sup>10</sup> = 350 mV),<sup>36</sup> IrO<sup>2</sup> particles (*η*<sup>10</sup> 400 mV) (**Table S1**) as well as RuO<sup>2</sup> nanopowders supported on CF (**Figure S11**). The Co@Co9S8- 220 exhibits an OER activity very similar to that of the Co@Co9S8- 180, indicating that a higher loading of Co9S<sup>8</sup> doesn't help further boost the OER activity of the electrode. The durability of the bare CF and Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes was investigated by repetitive CV scans between 1.2 and 1.7 V vs. RHE at a rate of 50 mV s-1 . After 1000 cycles, the CV curves of both bare CF and Co@Co9S8-220 shift positively (dotted lines, **Figure 3a**, inset), while that of Co@Co9S8-180 remains virtually unchanged, showing excellent durability.

**Figure 3** (a) CV curves, (b) Tafel plots, and (c) Nyquist plots of the bare Co foam, Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 electrodes, Equivalent circuit models of (d) bare Co foam and (e) Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> used for fitting. All measurements were performed in 1.0 M KOH at room temperature (ca. 25 °C).

To gain additional understanding of the OER process, the Tafel analysis was carried out in the linear potential region by fitting the reduced branches of CV curves with the Tafel equation. The Tafel slope is found to be 70, 55 and 52 mV dec−1 for the bare CF, Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 electrodes, respectively (**Figure 3b**). The Tafel slope of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes is substantially lower than that of many sulfide-based OER catalysts (**Table S1**), suggesting much faster kinetics towards the OER. This was also corroborated by our EIS study. **Figure 3c** displays the EIS Nyquist plots of the bare CF, Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 electrodes, which were recorded at 1.65 V vs. RHE and are fitted with the equivalent circuit models consisting of an equivalent series resistor (*R*s) in series connection with a *R*-*C* component(s) representing the charge transfer process (*R*ct-*CPE*) and the charge transport at the interface between CF and Co9S<sup>8</sup> (*R*sc-*CPE*), as shown in **Figures 3d** and **3e**. According to the fitting results (**Table S2**), the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) of Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 are only 0.44 and 0.40 cm-, >2 times smaller than that of the bare CF (0.90 cm-2 ), indicating that the Co9S<sup>8</sup> NPs, as efficient catalysts, dramatically expedite the OER process.

**Figure 4** (a-c) CV curves of the bare Co foam, Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8- 220 electrodes measured in 1 M KOH in the non-Faradaic region with different scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s-1 . (d) Current density (*J* =0.5 (*J*<sup>a</sup> – *J*c)) as a function of the scan rates. *J*<sup>a</sup> and *J*<sup>c</sup> represent the anodic and cathodic current densities recorded at 0 V vs. SCE, respectively.

 Electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) of both the bare CF and Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes was also measured to compare the effective surface areas (ESA) of these electrodes, given that Cdl is positively proportional to ESA. Cdl was measured through CV scans in the non-faradaic potential region of 0.05 – 0.05 V vs. saturated calomel electrode (SCE) at different scan rates ranging from 10 to 100 mV s-1 (**Figures 4a-4c**).<sup>38</sup> As shown in **Figure 4d**, the Cdl values of the bare CF, Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8- 220 are 16.9, 67.2 and 43.2 mF cm−2 , respectively. Therefore, the Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes would possess a higher ESA than the bare CF, allowing more active sites to be exposed and contributing to the high electrocatalytic activity. Cdl of Co@Co9S8-180 is higher than that of Co@Co9S8-220, in agreement with the porosimetry measurements (**Figure S7**).

 The excellent OER activity of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes can be ascribed to the following factors: on the one hand, Co9S<sup>8</sup> has intrinsically high catalytic activity for OER. Recent reports have demonstrated that Co9S<sup>8</sup> has a favorable electronic configuration that facilitates the required level of chemical interaction between the O atoms in water molecules and the empty anti-bonding states in metal cations during the initial stage of the OER. <sup>21</sup> To substantiate that the OER catalytic activity indeed results from Co9S8, we managed to get rid of Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles from the CF current collector using an ultrasonicating probe, and measured the OER activity of Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles spread on a glassy carbon substrate (**Figure S12**). The result shows that Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles only require an overpotential of ca. 400 mV to deliver 10 mA cm-2 , showing reasonably good catalytic activity for OER. On the other hand, the unique monolithic electrode structure also contributes to the excellent OER performance of Co@Co9S8. Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles are directly formed on the surface of CF and therefore have an intimate physical contact with the conductive substrate. This is to a large extent conducive to charge collection. Additionally, the macroporous feature of CF facilitates mass transport of electrolyte and release of generated oxygen gas bubbles which would have been tricky for powder-like electrocatalysts.

**Figure 5** (a) Chronopotentiometric curves of the bare Co foam, Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 electrodes measured at 20 and 100 mA cm-2 . (b, c) SEM images (d, e) and EDX spectra of the bare Co foam and Co@Co9S8-180 taken after 100 h continuous chronopotentiometric tests.

 Long-term stability is another important indicator for OER catalysts and is a critical requirement for practical applications. The long-term stability of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes was evaluated at a constant current density of 20 mA cm-2 for 50 h, followed by a continuous electrolysis at 100 mA cm-2 for another 50 h. As revealed in the chronopotentiometric (CP) curves in **Figure 5a**, both Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 electrodes substantially outperform the bare CF with a smaller overpotential

to maintain electrolysis at 20 mA cm-2 . Moreover, the overpotentials needed for Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes virtually remain constant over 50 h, while that for the bare CF gradually increases over time. At the high current of 100 mA cm-2 , the Co@Co9S8-180 electrode shows the best performance with only a small increase of 15 mV in overpotential during 50 h electrolysis (i.e., a degradation rate of 0.3 mV h-1 ); in contrast, the overpotential increase for both the bare CF and Co@Co9S8-220 is 57 mV in 50 h. After electrolysis for 50 h, the bare CF needs an overpotential of *η*<sup>100</sup> = 578 mV to maintain 100 mA cm-2 , substantially higher than that for Co@Co9S8-180 (*η*<sup>100</sup> = 440 mV), suggesting that Co@Co9S8-180 has better long-term stability for OER at both low and high current densities. The long-term stability of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes was also evaluated using chronoamperometry (CA) at a constant potential of 1.58 V vs. RHE. While Co@Co9S8-180 shows stable electrolysis performance similar to Co@Co9S8-220, both Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes deliver an anodic current much higher than that of the bare CF over 55 h, exhibiting outstanding longterm electrocatalytic performance (**Figure S13**).

 The morphology, crystal structure, and composition of samples subjected to the extended long-term stability test (i.e., 50 h at 20 mA cm-2 followed by 50 h at 100 mA cm-2 ) were examined by SEM and XRD. A lot of sheet-like structures with a feature size of ca. 300 nm were found to appear on the surface of bare CF after electrolysis, due likely to the formation of Co (oxy)hydroxide during the OER in alkaline solution (**Figure 5b**). Extensive EDX analyses showed that no obvious change was observed in composition for the bare CF, except that a strong peak from O appeared after long-term electrolysis (**Figure 5d**). According to the XRD analyses, the CF still comprised a mixture of fcc-Co and hcp-Co, but weak broadened diffraction peaks from β-CoOOH (JCPDS no. 14-0673) could also be resolved (**Figure S14**), consistent with previous reports. 39-41 While for the Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes, it was found that the particulate morphology disappeared after the extended OER electrolysis, and the surface of both Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8-220 became smoother (**Figure 5c** and **Figure S15a**). EDX analyses demonstrated that the intensity of the S peak was dramatically attenuated, and a strong peak from O appeared after the OER (**Figure 5e** and **Figure S15b**), indicating that the Co9S<sup>8</sup> NPs were transformed into cobalt (oxy)hydroxide after the long-term OER test. This was also verified by XRD analyses where the diffraction peaks from Co9S<sup>8</sup> disappeared after the OER (**Figure S16**). Similar structural and compositional transformations of metal chalcogenides were also reported when they were used for OER catalysis. 39-41

## **Conclusions**

 In summary, we report a very simple and cost-effective approach to the fabrication of monolithic electrodes comprising Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles uniformly grown on a porous cobalt foam current collector. This was realized by one-step hydrothermal treatment of commercially available cobalt foam in the presence of thiourea. The as-fabricated monolithic electrodes with an optimal loading of Co9S<sup>8</sup> exhibit outstanding catalytic activity towards the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in alkaline solution, requiring a low overpotential of 350 mV to attain the anodic current density 10 mA cm-2 and showing fast kinetics for OER with a small Tafel slope (55 mV dec-1 ) and charge transfer resistance (0.44 cm-2 ). Importantly, the electrodes show excellent long-term stability at both a low current density and a high current density relevant to industrial water electrolysis. Given the commercial availability of cobalt foam, the simple and cost-effective sulfidization procedure and the outstanding catalytic performance, the monolithic Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes reported here hold substantial promise for use as anodes in alkaline electrolyzers.

#### **Experimental Section**

#### **Materials synthesis**

All chemicals used in this work are of analytical grade and were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Prior to hydrothermal treatment, the Co foam (110 PPI, 1 mm thick) was cleaned by ultrasonication in 6 M HCl for 5 min to remove the surface oxide layer, washed successively in water and acetone, and finally dried at 60 °C in vacuum for 30 min. 1.0 g thiourea (CH4N2S) was dissolved in 35 mL of deionized (DI) water to form a homogeneous solution by continuous magnetic stirring for 30 min. The solution was then transferred into a 50 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave reactor where a piece of clean Co foam (3.1 × 4.2 cm<sup>2</sup> ) was placed against the wall. Subsequently, the reactor was sealed, heated to 180 °C or 220 °C (denoted as Co@Co9S8-180 and Co@Co9S8- 220), and maintained at this temperature for 12 h. Finally, the reactor was naturally cooled down to room temperature. After the hydrothermal processing, the color of Co foam turned dark yellow from light grey, suggesting the formation of Co9S<sup>8</sup> nanoparticles on the foam surface. The resultant sample was then rinsed successively with DI water and ethanol, and dried in a N<sup>2</sup> flow.

#### **Structural characterization**

The morphology, microstructure, and chemical composition of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes were examined by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM, FEI Quanta 650) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM, FEI Titan ChemiSTEM 80-200 operating at 200 kV) equipped with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX). Nitrogen adsorption/desorption porosimetry was investigated using a Quantachrome surface area analyzer at liquid N<sup>2</sup> temperature. The crystalline structure of samples was studied by X-ray diffractometry (XRD, PANalytical X'Pert PRO) using Cu *K*<sup>α</sup> radiation (λ = 1.540598 Å) and a PIXcel detector. The surface chemical states were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, VG Multilab 2000).

#### **Electrochemical measurements**

The OER performance was evaluated by cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronopotentiometry (CP) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) in a three-electrode configuration in 1.0 M KOH (pH = 13.5) using a Biologic VMP-3 potentiostat/galvanostat. A platinum wire and a saturated calomel electrode (SCE) were used as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. The as-fabricated Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrode was directly used as the working electrode, and the active electrode area was 1×1 cm<sup>2</sup> . To compare the electrocatalytic activity of Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrodes with the state-of-the-art RuO<sup>2</sup> OER catalysts, commercial RuO<sup>2</sup> nanopowders (Sigma-Aldrich) were dispersed in a mixture of 500 L water, 480 L isopropanol and 20 L Nafion (5 wt%, Sigma),

and cast onto a piece of porous Co foam (RuO<sup>2</sup> loading mass: 1 mg cm-2 ). Moreover, to confirm their intrinsic catalytic activity Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles were also detached from Co foam and dispersed on a glassy carbon substrate for electrocatalytic tests. The Co9S<sup>8</sup> ink was prepared in a way similar to the RuO<sup>2</sup> one as mentioned above.

Cyclic voltammetric (CV) scans were recorded between 1.05 and 1.75 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) at a scan rate of 5 mV s-1 . The electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) of each sample was measured given that Cdl is positively proportional to the effective surface areas (ESA). Cdl can be extracted through CV scans at different rates (from 10 to 100 mV s -1 ) in the non-faradaic potential window of -0.05-0.05 V vs. SCE. All current density values are normalized with respect to the geometrical surface area of the working electrode. For comparison, the electrocatalytic performance of a bare Co foam was also measured. All CV curves presented in this work are *iR*corrected. The correction was done according to the following equation:

$$E_{\rm c} = E_{\rm m} - iR_{\rm s} \tag{1}$$

where *E*<sup>c</sup> is the *iR*-corrected potential, *E*<sup>m</sup> experimentally measured potential, and *R*<sup>s</sup> the equivalent series resistance extracted from the Zero-Input Response (ZIR) measurements. Unless otherwise specified, all potentials are reported versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by converting the potentials measured vs. SCE according to the following formula:

$$E (RHE) = E (SCE) + 0.241 + 0.059 pH$$
 (2)

The EIS measurements were performed in the frequency range of 20 mHz – 200 kHz under a constant potential of 1.65V vs. RHE.

#### **Acknowledgements**

L.F. Liu acknowledges the support of FCT Investigator grant (No. IF/01595/2014) and Exploratory grant (No. IF/01595/2014/CP1247/CT0001) awarded by the Portuguese Foundation of Science & Technology (FCT). D. H. Xiong and W. Li thank the financial support of Marie Curie COFUND programme under the FP7 framework (Grant Agreement No. 600375). D. H. Xiong also acknowledges the financial support by the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No. 2015T80847).

**Keywords:** water splitting, nanostructures, electrocatalysis, oxygen evolution reaction, Co9S8.

- [1] X. X. Zou and Y. Zhang, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2015, 44, 5148.
- [2] C. C. McCrory, S. Jung, I. M. Ferrer, S. M. Chatman, J. C. Peters and T. F. Jaramillo, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2015, 137, 4347.
- [3] J. Wang, W. Cui, Q. Liu, Z. Xing, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, Adv. Mater., 2016, 28, 215.
- [4] F. Wang, T. A. Shifa, X. Zhan, Y. Huang, K. Liu, Z. Cheng, C. Jiang and J. He, Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 19764.
- [5] Y. Shi and B. Zhang, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2016, 45, 1529-1541.
- [6] A. Singh and L. Spiccia, Coord. Chem. Rev., 2013, 17-18, 2607.
- [7] P. Ganesan, A. Sivanantham and S. Shanmugam, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 16394.

- [8] A. Sivanantham and S. Shanmugam, Appl. Catal. B: Environ., 2017, 203, 485.
- [9] X. Wang, W. Li, D. Xiong, D. Y. Petrovykh and L. Liu, Adv. Fun. Mater., 2016, 26, 4067.
- [10] D. Xiong, X. Wang, W. Li and L. Liu, Chem. Commun., 2016, 52, 8711.
- [11] W. Li, X. F. Gao, X. G. Wang, D. H. Xiong, P. P. Huang, W. G. Song, X. Q. Bao and L. F. Liu, J. Power Sources, 2016, 330, 156.
- [12] C. Tang, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, Chem. Commun., 2016, 52, 4529.
- [13] T. Liu, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, Nanoscale, 2016, 8, 3911.
- [14] W. Li, X. F. Gao, D. H. Xiong, F. Wei, W. G. Song, J. Y. Xu and L. F. Liu, Adv. Energy Mater., 2017, DOI: 10.1002/aenm.201602579.
- [15] W. W. Xu, Z. Y. Lu, X. D. Lei, Y. P. Li and X. M. Sun, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2014, 16, 20402.
- [16] T. T. Liu, Y. H. Liang, Q. Liu, X. P. Sun, Y. Q. He and A. M. Asiri, Electrochem. Commun., 2015, 60, 92.
- [17] B. L. Chen, R. Li, G. P. Ma, X. L. Guo, Y. Q. Zhu and Y. D. Xia, Nanoscale, 2015, 7, 20674.
- [18] P. Ganesan, M. Prabu, J. Sanetuntikul and S. Shanmugam, ACS Catal., 2015, 5, 3625.
- [19] S. Dou, L. Tao, J. Huo, S. Y. Wang and L. M. Dai, Energy Environ. Sci.,
- 2016, 9, 1320. [20] J. Wang, H. X. Zhong, Z. L. Wang, F. L. Meng and X. B. Zhang, ACS Nano,
- 2016, 10, 2342. [21] X. C. Cao, X. J. Zheng, J. H. Tian, C. Jin, K. Ke and R. Z. Yang, Electrochim.
- Acta, 2016, 191, 776. [22] Y. Q. Xu, Y. C. Hao, G. X. Zhang, X. Y. Jin, L. Wang, Z. Y. Lu and X. M.
- Sun, Part. Part. Syst. Char., 2016, 33, 569. [23] M. Al-Mamun, Y. Wang, P. Liu, Y. L. Zhong, H. Yin, X. Su, H. M. Zhang, H. G. Yang, D. Wang, Z. Y. Tang and H. J. Zhao, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016,
- [24] H. Y. Qian, J. Tang, Z. L. Wang, J. Kim, J. H. Kim, S. M. Alshehri, E. Yanmaz, X. Wang and Y. Yamauchi, Chem. Eur. J. 2016, 22, 18259.
- [25] B. K. Barman, K. K. Nanda, Dalton Trans., 2016, 45, 6352.

4, 18314.

- [26] Y. Liu, C. Xiao, M. Lyu, Y. Lin, W. Cai, P. Huang, W. Tong, Y. Zou and Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., 2015, 127, 11383.
- [27] S. H. Chang, M. D. Lu, Y. L. Tung and H. Y. Tuan, ACS Nano, 2013, 7, 9443.
- [28] H. Zhu, J. Zhang, R. Zhang, M. Du, Q. Wang, G. Gao, J. Wu, G. Wu, M. Zhang, B. Liu, J. Yao and X. Zhang, Adv. Mater., 2015, 27, 4752.
- [29] W. Zhao, C. Zhang, F. Geng, S. Zhuo and B. Zhang, ACS Nano, 2014, 8, 10909.
- [30] X. Zhang, S. Liu, Y. Zang, R. Liu, G. Liu, G. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang and H. Zhao, Nano Energy, 2016, 30, 93.
- [31] T. Liu, Q. Liu, A. M. Asiri, Y. Luo, X. Sun, Chem. Commun., 2015, 51, 16683.
- [32] N. Yang, C. Tang, K. Wang, G. Du, A.M. Asiri, X. Sun, Nano Res. 2016, 9, 3346.
- [33] Z. Pu, Y. Luo, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2016, 8, 4718.
- [34] N. Cheng, Q. Liu, A. M. Asiri, W. Xing, X. Sun, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2015, 3, 23207.
- [35] S. Jung, C. C. L. McCrory, I. M. Ferrer, J. C. Peters and T. F. Jaramillo, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 3068.
- [36] K. P. Xie, W. Xia, J. Masa, F. K. Yang, P. Weida, W. Schuhmann and M. Muhler, J. Energy Chem. 2016, 25, 282.
- [37] A. Maljusch, O. Conradi, S. Hoch, M. Blug and W. Schuhmann, Anal. Chem. 2016, 88, 7597.
- [38] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters and T. F. Jaramillo, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2013, 135, 16977.
- [39] C. W. Tung, Y. Y. Hsu, Y. P. Shen, Y. X. Zheng, T. S. Chan, H. S. Sheu, Y. C. Cheng and H. M. Chen, Nat. Comm., 2015, 6, 8106.
- [40] W. Zhu, X. Yue, W. Zhang, S. Yu, Y. Zhang, J. Wang and J. Wang, Chem. Commun., 2016, 52, 1486.
- [41] D. Xiong, Q. Zhang, W. Li, J. Li, X. Fu, M. F. Cerqueira, P. Alpuim,L. Liu, Nanoscale, 2017, 9(8), 2711-2717.

## **Entry for the Table of Contents** (Please choose one layout)

## Layout 1:

## FULL PAPER

One-step hydrothermal treatment of commercially available cobalt foam is reported here to fabricate monolithic Co9S<sup>8</sup> water splitting electrodes (Co@Co9S8). When used to catalyze the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the Co@Co9S<sup>8</sup> electrode exhibits outstanding catalytic activity and excellent longterm stability in alkaline solution, outperforming many sulfide-based OER catalysts reported in the literature.

*Dehua Xiong,[a,b] Qingqing Zhang,[b] Sitaramanjaneya Mouli Thalluri,[a] Junyuan Xu,[a] Wei Li,[a] Xiuli Fu[c] and Lifeng Liu\*[a]*

*Page No. – Page No.*

**One-step fabrication of monolithic electrodes comprising Co9S<sup>8</sup> particles supported on cobalt foam for efficient and durable oxygen evolution reaction**