---
source: Xu 等 - 2024 - Full‐Spectrum Light‐Harvesting Solar Thermal Electrocatalyst Boosts Oxygen Evolution.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.880s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:16:37.583367Z
---

### *Zuschrift*

*Oxygen Evolution Reaction*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202412049 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202412049](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202412049)

# **Full-Spectrum Light-Harvesting Solar Thermal Electrocatalyst Boosts Oxygen Evolution**

*Mingxia Xu<sup>+</sup> , Qiming Bing+ , Yunchuan Tu<sup>+</sup> , Yunlong Zhang, Mo Zhang, Yafeng Cai, Jinlei Li, Xianguang Meng, Jia Zhu, Liang Yu,\* and [Dehui](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9702-0531) Deng\**

**Abstract:** Enabling high-efficiency solar thermal conversion (STC) at catalytic active site is critical but challenging for harnessing solar energy to boost catalytic reactions. Herein, we report the direct integration of full-spectrum STC and high electrocatalytic oxygen evolution activity by fabricating a hierarchical nanocage architecture composed of graphene-encapsulated CoNi nanoparticle. This catalyst exhibits a near-complete 98% absorptivity of solar spectrum and a high STC efficiency of 97%, which is superior than previous solar thermal catalytic materials. It delivers a remarkable potential decrease of over 240 mV at various current densities for electrocatalytic oxygen evolution under solar illumination, which is practically unachievable via traditionally heating the system. The high-efficiency STC is enabled by a synergy between the regulated electronic structure of graphene via CoNi-carbon interaction and the multiple absorption of lights by the lighttrapping nanocage. Theoretical calculations suggest that high temperature-induced vibrational free energy gain promotes the potential-limiting \*O to \*OOH step, which decreases the overpotential for oxygen evolution.

*D*irectly harvesting solar energy to accelerate catalytic reactions via solar thermal conversion (STC) is an energysaving and sustainable route for improving reaction

[\*] M. Xu+

Department of Chemical Physics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, Anhui, P.R. China

M. Xu,<sup>+</sup> Q. Bing,+ Y. Tu,<sup>+</sup> Y. Zhang, M. Zhang, Y. Cai, X. Meng, Prof. L. Yu, Prof. D. Deng

State Key Laboratory of Catalysis, Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian 116023, P. R. China J. Li, J. Zhu

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Artificial Functional Materials, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023, Jiangsu, P. R. China

Prof. L. Yu, Prof. D. Deng University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, P.R. China.

E-mail: lyu@dicp.ac.cn dhdeng@dicp.ac.cn

<sup>+</sup>] These authors contributed equally: Mingxia Xu, Qiming Bing, Yunchuan Tu.

performances.[1] It requires functional materials that are not only solar thermal responsive but also catalytically active. However, state-of-the-art solar thermal catalysis systems are limited either by the low STC capability or low catalytic activity, which severely restricts the solar thermal-catalytic performance.[2] Currently, the semiconductor-based materials for solar-driven catalysis mainly absorb ultraviolet-visible spectrum due to their inherent wide band gap, but without sufficient utilization of the infrared band.[3] Plasmonic metals such as Au,[4] Ag[3a] and Cu[5] can only absorb a narrow band in the ultraviolet-visible (UV/Vis) region caused by localized surface plasmon resonance.[6] In contrast, monolayer graphene exhibits nearly uniform optical absorption for photon energies above 0.5 eV, which covers the entire solar spectrum.[7] Furthermore, solar light absorbed by graphene undergoes efficient conversion into thermal energy through electron-electron and electron-phonon scattering.[8] These two properties make graphene a promising candidate material for solar thermal conversion.[9] However, the inherently low chemical activity and low optical absorptivity (about 2.3%) of graphene severely limits its solar thermal catalytic performance.[10] Developing graphene-based highly active catalysts with both high absorptivity of full solar spectrum and high solar thermal conversion efficiency remains a great challenge.

Herein, by using graphene-encapsulated CoNi nanoparticles (CoNi@Gr) as building blocks to fabricate a hierarchical nanocage architecture (CoNi@Gr-nanocage), we report the simultaneous realization of high-efficiency full-spectrum solar thermal conversion and high electrocatalytic oxygen evolution performance. It enables an exceptional 98% absorptivity of full solar spectrum, rendering a high STC efficiency of 97%. Moreover, the CoNi@Grnanocage catalyst exhibits excellent activity in oxygen evolution reaction (OER), achieving a remarkable potential decrease over 240 mV at various current densities by simply using solar illumination. Based on comprehensive experimental characterizations and theoretical calculations, we propose that the high-efficiency solar thermal conversion is enabled by a synergy of two effects. One is the regulation of graphene electronic structure via CoNi-carbon interaction, which significantly enhances the full-spectrum light absorptivity of the graphene.[11] The other is the light-trapping effect of the hierarchical nanocage architecture, which effectively promotes multiple absorption of lights and suppresses light reflection and transmission (Figure 1). The solar thermal-induced high temperature leads to the formation of vaporization layer on the catalyst surface as well

*Figure 1.* Schematic illustration for the enhanced solar thermal conversion over the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst for the OER process.

as gas-liquid-solid interfaces, which decreases the equilibrium potential required for water splitting and facilitates the potential-limiting \*O to \*OOH step in the OER process.

The ultrafine CoNi alloy nanoparticles with an average diameter of 6.2 nm, were first loaded on the surface of SiO2 spheres with a diameter of about 400 nm (see Supporting Information for details, Figure S1). Subsequently, graphene shell was in situ grown on the surface of each CoNi nanoparticle by introducing methane as a carbon source at 800 °C. Then, the SiO2 template and the unencapsulated CoNi nanoparticles were completely removed by acid etching, forming a hollow hierarchical nanocage architecture composed of CoNi nanoparticles that are fully encapsulated by graphene (Figure 2a and 2b and Figure S2). The aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy (ACTEM) image reveals a lattice spacing of 2.1 Å for the CoNi alloy nanoparticle, corresponding to the (111) crystal plane of CoNi alloy in accord with the XRD results (Figure 2c and Figure S3). Elemental mapping images obtained through Xray energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) confirm the homogeneous composition of cobalt, nickel, and carbon elements within the hierarchical nanocage architecture (Figure 2d).

To identify the electronic interaction between CoNi and graphene in the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst, the atomicresolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS) characterization was conducted to probe the electronic properties of the graphene layer. The EELS characterization of a single CoNi@Gr nanoparticle and its graphene shell in the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst show two characteristic peaks at approximately 5 eV and 20 eV (Figure 2e), which are attributed to the π plasmon and π+σ plasmon of the graphene,[12] respectively. The absence of localized surface plasmon resonance peaks of cobalt and nickel indicates the complete encapsulation of CoNi alloy nanoparticle by graphene.[13] The observed blueshift of the two energy-loss peaks in the spectra are attributed to the interaction between 3d electrons of CoNi and 2p electrons of graphene.[14] Additionally, under the protection of graphene shell, the CoNi nanoparticles are maintained in metallic state, which is corroborated by the X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) results (Figure 2f and 2g and Figure S4).

The CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst exhibits an ultrahigh average absorption up to 98% across the entire solar spectrum, superior to that of graphene metamaterials (85%) or graphitic-based absorbers (*<*95%)[9,15] (Figure 3a). To better understand the mechanism of CoNi core and the hierarchical nanocage architecture in improving solar absorptivity of graphene, the CoNi@Gr structure without forming the nanocage architecture (Figure S5) and graphene shell (Gr-shell) without CoNi nanoparticles were synthesized as reference samples (see Supporting Information for details). The comparison between absorptions curves of CoNi@Gr and Gr-shell demonstrates that the interaction of metallic CoNi alloy with graphene significantly improves the light absorptivity of graphene in the whole solar spectrum (Figure 3b). This is further verified by DFT simulations of light absorption of the CoNi@Gr, which show that the combination of CoNi nanoparticle and graphene can induce an obvious enhancement in light absorbance especially in the UV/Vis region (Figure S6 and S7). This could be attributed to that the CoNi-graphene interaction evens the distribution of electronic density of C 2p states across the Fermi level and eliminates the C 2p band gap of the carbon layer, as shown in the calculated density of states of CoNi@Gr structure using a CoNi@C240 model (Figure S6d and S8a). which could enhance the wide-spectrum light absorption of graphene. Comparison between the CoNi@Gr-nanocage and CoNi@Gr catalysts indicates that the hierarchical nanocage architecture efficiently enhances the light absorption, especially in the infrared regions (Figure 3b). On the one hand, the close assembling of CoNi@Gr nanoparticles in the hierarchical nanocage leads to multiple overlapping optical modes that contribute to broadband absorption.[16] On the other hand, the hierarchical nanocage architecture with internal cavities enables re-absorption of the unabsorbed incident lights and the few transmission and reflected lights (Figure 1), thereby further enhancing the light absorptivity. As a result, the surface temperature of

*Figure 2.* Structural characterizations and compositional analyses of CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst. (a–b) Representative HRTEM images of CoNi@Gr-nanocage. (c) ACTEM image of the graphene-encapsulated CoNi nanoparticles for the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst. The white arrow denotes the graphene layers. (d) HRTEM image and corresponding energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy elemental mapping images of CoNi@Grnanocage. (e) Atomic-resolution EELS for single CoNi@Gr nanoparticle (red) and graphene (black). The single CoNi@Gr nanoparticle and graphene shell originates from the same sample containing abundant CoNi@Gr nanoparticles and few graphene shells devoid of CoNi cores. (f–g) XANES spectra of CoNi@Gr-nanocage at the Co (f) and Ni (g) K edge. The references of Co foil, Co2O3, Ni foil and NiO are also presented for comparison.

CoNi@Gr-nanocage rises sharply from 24.8 to 404 °C within the first three seconds, exhibiting a high heating rate of 126 °C s <sup>1</sup> with a high STC efficiency of 97%, surpassing those of CoNi@Gr (101 °C s 1 , 60%) and Gr-shell (51.2°C s 1 , 15%) under the same solar illumination density of 17.4 W cm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 3c and Figure S9). These findings reveal the fast-response solar thermal conversion capability of the designed CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst.

In addition to the high-efficiency solar thermal conversion, the CoNi@Gr-nanocage also exhibits an excellent activity for the OER under alkaline condition. Geometricnormalized linear sweep voltammetry curves show that, in the absence of solar illumination, the CoNi@Gr-nanocage requires a low η of 324 mV to reach a current density of 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 4d), which is comparable to commercial IrO2 (η=345 mV) and notably lower than that of the Grshell catalyst (η=520 mV) (Figure 4e). This result reveals the role of CoNi core in stimulating the catalytic activity of graphene. Under the solar illumination condition, the temperature of CoNi@Gr-nanocage electrode and catalytic performance rises proportionally with the increase of the illumination power (Figure 4a and Figure S11). Infrared thermal imager was employed for operando detection of the electrode surface temperature. Under solar illumination of 17.4 W cm <sup>2</sup> , the electrode attains a peak temperature of 85.2 °C in ten seconds, accompanied by an instantaneous

## *Zuschrift*

*Figure 3.* Optical properties of CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst and control samples. (a) The total transmission, reflection and absorption of CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst in 280–2500 nm wavelength range. The inset photograph illustrates the enhanced visible light absorption of carbon paper supporting the CoNi@Gr-nanocage. (b) Comparison of the absorption performance of CoNi@Gr-nanocage, CoNi@Gr nanoparticles and Gr-shell, presented against the standard Air Mass 1.5 global (AM 1.5 G) tilt solar spectrum. (c) Surface temperature profiles of different samples under the solar density of 17.4 W cm <sup>2</sup> .

*Figure 4.* Electrocatalytic performance of CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst and control samples measured in 1 M KOH electrolyte with and without solar illumination. (a) The illumination density-dependent steady-state temperature of the electrode surface and the oxygen evolution current density at a potential of 1.3 V vs. RHE. (b) The electrode temperature distribution of the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst under solar illumination. (c) The OER polarization curves of CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst with and without solar illumination. (d) Comparison of potential required for a 20-mA cm <sup>2</sup> current density over CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst and control samples with and without solar illumination. (e) Comparison of solar thermal heating (red) and bulk electrolyte heating (blue) for OER promotion. Calibration of the reference electrode is completed at corresponding electrolyte temperature. (f) Galvanostatic measurement of the electrode potential at an anodic current density of 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> under light on and off cycling. In b–f, the solar radiation intensity remains consistent under lighting condition, which is 17.4 W cm <sup>2</sup> .

augmentation in oxygen-production current (Figure 4b, Video S1 and Figure S12). After the cessation of solar illumination, the temperature of the electrode surface sharply drops back to room temperature and the corresponding oxygen production current also decreases rapidly. Under solar illumination of 17.4 W cm <sup>2</sup> , the electrode potential at a wide range of current density above 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> on CoNi@Gr-nanocage is significantly decreased by more than 240 mV, which is notably larger than the decrease of about 40 mV on commercial IrO2 and about 141 mV on the Gr-shell catalyst (Figure 4c and 4d).

Based on the temperature dependence of the equilibrium potential, the solar thermal enhancement of OER performance is equivalent to elevating the cell temperature to above 300 °C,[17] which is practically unachievable for the traditional electrocatalytic system in aqueous solution (Figure 4e). Furthermore, the CoNi@Gr-nanocage exhibits a reproducible solar thermal response to light on-off cycles,[18] revealing the robustness of the solar thermal-enhanced OER process on the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst (Figure 4f and Figure S13). X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) results demonstrate that the CoNi core maintains its metallic state after undergoing multiple cycles of light on/ off switch, which confirms the excellent thermal and chemical stability of the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst in the repeating drastic temperature fluctuations (Figure S14). Based on the solar thermal catalytic effect, water splitting was successfully driven by a 1.2 V commercial battery under solar illumination using CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst and Pt mesh as anode and cathode, respectively (Figure S15 and Video S2), which demonstrates the significant potential of the CoNi@Gr-nanocage for application in solar thermalenhanced electrocatalytic processes.

DFT calculations were further conducted to investigate the synergistic solar thermo-electrocatalysis process on the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst using the model of C240 fullerene encapsulating a CoNi nanoparticle (denoted as CoNi@C240) (Figure 5a and 5b). As shown in the calculated reaction pathways of OER, the potential-determining step (PDS) on both CoNi@C240 and pure C240 surfaces is the \*O+ OH !\*OOH+*e* with free energy change of 1.75 and 2.51 eV, respectively (Figure 5c and Table S1). Thus, the overpotential (η) on the CoNi@C240 (0.52 V) is remarkably lower than that on the C240 (1.28 V) at 25°C under non-solar thermal condition, indicating the superior intrinsic OER activity of CoNi@C240 than that of C240 (Figure 5c). The lower η of OER on the CoNi@C240 surface could be attributed to the enhanced adsorption of \*OH (OH !\*OH +*e* ) with a notably lower free energy change of 1.54 eV than that of 1.92 eV on the C240 surface, which evens the free energy changes of elementary steps to a certain extent compared with those on the C240 surface. These results indicate that the CoNi-graphene interaction significantly increases the catalytic activity of the carbon surface and enhances the OER performance by promoting the adsorption of surface oxygen species. Analyses of density of states (DOS) and differential charge density of the CoNi@C240 show that the CoNi-graphene bonding interaction reshapes the C 2p states near the Fermi level (Figure S8a) and enriches the carbon surface with electrons via CoNi-tographene electron transfer (Figure S8b), which disturbs the

*Figure 5.* DFT calculation results. (a–b) Structures of \*OH, \*O and \*OOH adsorbates and bond lengths (*d*O C) of oxygen-carbon bonds on the CoNi@C240 and C240 surfaces, respectively. (c) Reaction pathways of OER on CoNi@C240 and C240 at 25 °C under non-solar thermal condition. (d) Scheme of oxygen evolution process on the CoNi@C240 surface under solar thermal condition. (e) Temperature dependence for the free energy changes of elementary steps in OER under solar thermal condition. (f) The curves of limiting potential, equilibrium potential and overpotential (η) against the temperature of catalyst surface under solar thermal condition.

π bond of graphene and enhances the catalytic activity of graphene.[19]

With solar illumination, the surface temperature of CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst can reach over 400 °C due to the high-efficiency solar thermal energy conversion (Figure 3c). In the practical electrocatalytic system under solar illumination, the interface of the electrolyte and electrode with the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst can still reach a high temperature of about 225 °C, as detected by the infrared thermal imager (Figure S16a). This signifies the existence of water evaporation layer above the catalyst surface and thus the formation of gas-liquid-solid triple-phase interfaces (Figure S16b). Based on these experimental phenomena, the mechanism of solar thermal enhancement for OER on the CoNi@C240 was further studied (Figure 5d). By including the temperature effect on the free energies of surface species and gas phase H2O molecules under solar thermal condition, the free energy changes of the elementary steps (Δ*G*1: OH +\*!\*OH+*e* ; Δ*G*2: \*OH+OH !H2O+\*O+*e* and Δ*G*3: \*O+OH !\*OOH+*e* ) on the CoNi@C240 were calculated in a wide temperature range from 100 to 400 °C (Figure 5e). The results show that the PDS is always the third elementary step (Δ*G*3) and the limiting potential decreases 130 mV from 1.67 V at 100 °C to 1.54 V at 400°C (Figure 5e and 5 f). Considering that the OER equilibrium potential also descends as the temperature rises, the temperature-induced variation of η is obtained using the limiting potential minus the equilibrium potential, which decreases from 0.51 V at 100 °C to 0.45 V at 400 °C (Figure 5f). The reduction of the limiting potential originates from the different temperature effect on the vibrational entropy of the \*O, \*OH, and \*OOH species, which lowers the free energy of the \*OOH than that of \*O at higher temperatures (Figure S17), thus favoring the PDS (\*O+OH !\*OOH+*e* ). These results demonstrates that the solar thermal-induced high-temperature surface of the CoNi@Gr-nanocage catalyst can promote the catalytic performance based on the temperature-dependence of the surface reaction energetics.

In summary, by using graphene-encapsulated CoNi nanoparticles as building blocks to fabricate a hierarchical nanocage architecture, we demonstrate an efficient integration of full-spectrum STC and high electrocatalytic OER activity. In solar thermal-enhanced oxygen evolution, the efficient solar absorption (98%) and high STC efficiency (97%) lead to localized high temperature at the catalyst surface, facilitating the potential-limiting \*O to \*OOH step and lowering the equilibrium potential. It delivers a significant potential reduction of over 240 mV, which is unpractical to achieve via traditionally heating the aqueous solution. This work provides a new solar thermal catalyst design concept aimed at bridging the material gap in harnessing solar power to improve catalytic reactions and can be employed in various applications, such as solar desalination and photocatalysis.

### *Author contributions*

D.D. conceived the project and designed the experiments. M.X. and Y.T. performed the materials synthesis, characterizations and electrochemical measurement. M.Z. and Y.Z. carried out the TEM characterizations. Q.B. and L.Y. conducted the DFT studies. M.X., Q.B., Y.T., L.Y. and D.D. co-wrote the manuscript.

#### *Acknowledgements*

We gratefully acknowledge the financial support from the National Key R&D Program of China (No. 2022YFA1504500), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21988101, 22225204, 22272170 and 22102184), the Strategic Priority Research Program of Chinese Academy of Sciences (Nos. XDB36030200 and XDB0600000), and Liaoning Binhai Laboratory (No. LBLC-2023-02). We thank the staff at XAFS beamline (BL14 W1) of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facilities for their assistance on the EXAFS and XANES characterizations. We thank Dr. Duy Thang Dao from Silicon Austria Labs for his constructive discussions. We thank Prof. Xinhe Bao from University of Science and Technology of China for his valuable suggestions.

### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Full-spectrum solar thermal conversion **·** Graphene-encapsulated Metal **·** Hierarchical Nanocage **·** Oxygen evolution reaction

- [1] a) O. Neumann, A. S. Urban, J. Day, S. Lal, P. Nordlander, N. J. Halas, *ACS Nano* **2013**, *7*, [42–49](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn304948h); b) L. A. Weinstein, J. Loomis, B. Bhatia, D. M. Bierman, E. N. Wang, G. Chen, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, *115*, [12797–12838](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.5b00397); c) N. S. Lewis, *Science* **2016**, *351*, aad1920; d) P. Tao, G. Ni, C. Song, W. Shang, J. Wu, J. Zhu, G. Chen, T. Deng, *Nat. Energy* **2018**, *3*, [1031–1041;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-018-0260-7) e) V. H. Dalvi, S. V. Panse, J. B. Joshi, *Nat. Clim. [Change](https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2717)* **2015**, *5*, [1007–1013;](https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2717) f) F. L. Meng, G. Yilmaz, T. P. Ding, M. Gao, G. W. Ho, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903605.
- [2] a) U. Aslam, V. G. Rao, S. Chavez, S. Linic, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0138-x)* **2018**, *1*, [656–665](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0138-x); b) Y. Zhao, W. Gao, S. Li, G. R. Williams, A. H. Mahadi, D. Ma, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, [920–937](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2019.03.003); c) C. Song, Z. Wang, Z. Yin, D. Xiao, D. Ma, *Chem [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.checat.2021.10.005)* **2022**, *2*, 52–83.
- [3] a) S. Linic, P. Christopher, D. B. Ingram, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3151)* **2011**, *10*, [911–921](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3151); b) N. Serpone, E. Pelizzetti, *Photocatalysis: Fundamentals and applications*, Wiley-Interscience, **1989**; c) A. J. Nozik, R. Memming, *J. Phys. Chem.* **1996**, *100*, [13061–13078;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp953720e) d) X. Meng, T. Wang, L. Liu, S. Ouyang, P. Li, H. Hu, T.

- Kako, H. Iwai, A. Tanaka, J. Ye, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201404953) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, [11478–11482.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201404953)
- [4] G. Liu, P. Li, G. Zhao, X. Wang, J. Kong, H. Liu, H. Zhang, K. Chang, X. Meng, T. Kako, J. Ye, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05190) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [9128–9136.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b05190)
- [5] L. Zhou, D. F. Swearer, C. Zhang, H. Robatjazi, H. Zhao, L. Henderson, L. Dong, P. Christopher, E. A. Carter, P. Nordlander, N. J. Halas, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aat6967)* **2018**, *362*, 69–72.
- [6] a) C. Zhan, J. Yi, S. Hu, X.-G. Zhang, D.-Y. Wu, Z.-Q. Tian, *Nat. Rev. Method. Prim.* **2023**, *3*, 12; b) H. Zhang, T. Wang, J. Wang, H. Liu, T. D. Dao, M. Li, G. Liu, X. Meng, K. Chang, L. Shi, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, [3703–3710.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201505187)
- [7] a) K. F. Mak, M. Y. Sfeir, Y. Wu, C. H. Lui, J. A. Misewich, T. F. Heinz, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2008**, *101*, 196405; b) R. R. Nair, P. Blake, A. N. Grigorenko, K. S. Novoselov, T. J. Booth, T. Stauber, N. M. R. Peres, A. K. Geim, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1156965)* **2008**, *320*, 1308– [1308;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1156965) c) K. F. Mak, L. Ju, F. Wang, T. F. Heinz, *[Solid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssc.2012.04.064) State Commun.* **2012**, *152*, [1341–1349.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssc.2012.04.064)
- [8] A. Kuzmenko, E. Van Heumen, F. Carbone, D. Van Der Marel, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2008**, *100*, 117401.
- [9] H. Ren, M. Tang, B. Guan, K. Wang, J. Yang, F. Wang, M. Wang, J. Shan, Z. Chen, D. Wei, H. Peng, Z. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1702590.
- [10] a) Q. Bao, K. P. Loh, *ACS Nano* **2012**, *6*, [3677–3694](https://doi.org/10.1021/nn300989g); b) D. Deng, K. Novoselov, Q. Fu, N. Zheng, Z. Tian, X. Bao, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2015.340) [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2015.340)* **2016**, *11*, 218–230.
- [11] D. C. Elias, R. R. Nair, T. M. G. Mohiuddin, S. V. Morozov, P. Blake, M. P. Halsall, A. C. Ferrari, D. W. Boukhvalov, M. I.

- Katsnelson, A. K. Geim, K. S. Novoselov, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1167130)* **2009**, *323*, [610–613](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1167130).
- [12] a) T. Eberlein, U. Bangert, R. Nair, R. Jones, M. Gass, A. Bleloch, K. Novoselov, A. Geim, P. Briddon, *Phys. Rev. B* **2008**, *77*, 233406; b) T. Angot, M. Portail, I. Forbeaux, J. M. Layet, *Surf. Sci.* **2002**, *[502–503](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0039-6028(01)01902-1)*, 81–85.
- [13] J. Lu, K. P. Loh, H. Huang, W. Chen, A. T. Wee, *Phys. Rev. B* **2009**, *80*, 113410.
- [14] a) A. V. Generalov, Y. S. Dedkov, *Carbon* **2012**, *50*, [183–191;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2011.08.018) b) X. Chen, J. Xiao, J. Wang, D. Deng, Y. Hu, J. Zhou, L. Yu, T. Heine, X. Pan, X. Bao, *Chem. Sci.* **2015**, *6*, [3262–3267.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5SC00353A)
- [15] H. Lin, B. C. P. Sturmberg, K.-T. Lin, Y. Yang, X. Zheng, T. K. Chong, C. M. de Sterke, B. Jia, *Nat. [Photonics](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-019-0389-3)* **2019**, *13*, [270–276](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41566-019-0389-3).
- [16] L. Zhou, Y. Tan, J. Wang, W. Xu, Y. Yuan, W. Cai, S. Zhu, J. Zhu, *Nat. [Photonics](https://doi.org/10.1038/nphoton.2016.75)* **2016**, *10*, 393–398.
- [17] M. Miles, G. Kissel, P. Lu, S. Srinivasan, *J. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.2132820) Soc.* **[1976](https://doi.org/10.1149/1.2132820)**, *123*, 332.
- [18] C. Zhan, B.-W. Liu, Y.-F. Huang, S. Hu, B. Ren, M. Moskovits, Z.-Q. Tian, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2671.
- [19] L. Yu, D. Deng, X. Bao, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202007604) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [15294–15297](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202007604).

Manuscript received: June 26, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: September 5, 2024 Version of record online: October 30, 2024