---
source: Xu 等 - 2025 - Ultrathin transition metal oxychalcogenide catalysts for oxygen evolution in acidic media.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 88.717s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:18:06.309344Z
---

# nature synthesis

**Article** 

https://doi.org/10.1038/s44160-024-00694-3

# Ultrathin transition metal oxychalcogenide catalysts for oxygen evolution in acidic media

Received: 16 May 2024

Accepted: 5 November 2024

Published online: 2 January 2025

Wenshuo Xu $\textcircled{1}^1$ , Yao Wu $\textcircled{2}^2$ , Shibo Xi $\textcircled{3}^3$ , Yan Wang $\textcircled{3}^1$ , Ye Wang $\textcircled{3}^1$ , Yuxuan Ke $\textcircled{3}^4$ , Lingtong Ding $\textcircled{5}^5$ , Xiao Wang $\textcircled{6}^{57}$ , Jieun Yang $\textcircled{3}^8$ , Wenjing Zhang4, Kian Ping Loh $\textcircled{3}^9$ , Feng Ding $\textcircled{3}^{56}$ , Zheng Liu $\textcircled{3}^2$  & Manish Chhowalla $\textcircled{3}^1$ 

Two-dimensional transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) exfoliated from bulk layered materials possess interesting properties. Most transition metal oxides are not layered and therefore cannot be exfoliated. Here we report the synthesis of a family of ultrathin materials—transition metal oxychalcogenides (TMOCs)—and demonstrate their unique properties. Two-dimensional TMOCs  $(MX_xO_y, M = \text{group IV or V transition metal}, X = \text{chalcogen}, O = \text{oxygen};$ x, y = 0-2) from bulk transition metal dichalcogenides (MX<sub>2</sub>) have been fabricated using tetrabutylammonium intercalation. The stoichiometry of TMOCs can be adjusted, which enables control of their optical bandgaps and tunability of electrical conductivity by more than eight orders of magnitude. By tuning the chalcogen-to-oxygen ratio along with local atomic structure in TMOCs, it is possible to impart unexpected properties. For example, in contrast to conventional TMDs, the hybrid structure of TMOCs renders them surprisingly stable and electrochemically active in strong acids, allowing them to be used as proof-of-concept catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction at pH  $\approx$  0. The HfS<sub>0.52</sub>O<sub>1.09</sub> catalyst shows high mass activity (103,000 A g<sup>-1</sup> at an overpotential of 0.5 V) and exhibits durability in proton exchange membrane water electrolysers.

Liquid-phase exfoliation is a scalable method to produce two-dimensional (2D) nanosheets\(^1\). There are two approaches for liquid-phase exfoliation of layered transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs)\(^2\): one in which the solvent intercalates between the layers of TMDs without reacting to separate them into nanosheets\(^3\); the other involves a chemical reaction so that 2D nanosheets with properties different from the parent bulk materials are obtained\(^4\). For example, exfoliation of layered TMDs such as  $MoS_2$  using butyllithium chemistry leads to transformation from the semiconducting to the metallic phase that is

useful for applications in catalysis and energy storage<sup>5-8</sup>. By contrast, electrochemical exfoliation of TMDs using molecular ion intercalation has been used to synthesize large quantities of high-quality TMD nanosheets for high-performance electronics and opto-electronic devices<sup>9</sup>. Compared with TMDs, most transition metal oxides (TMOs) are non-layered<sup>10,11</sup>. Some TMOs are also electrically insulating and thus cannot act as active components in devices or catalysis. However, TMOs are typically more stable than TMDs, which makes them useful for applications where materials are exposed to harsh environments<sup>12</sup>.

<sup>1</sup>Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. <sup>2</sup>School of Materials Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore. <sup>3</sup>Institute of Sustainability for Chemicals, Energy and Environment, Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A\*STAR), Singapore, Singapore. <sup>4</sup>State Key Laboratory of Radio Frequency Heterogeneous Integration, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, China. <sup>5</sup>Faculty of Materials Science and Energy Engineering, Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology, Shenzhen, China. <sup>6</sup>Institute of Technology for Carbon Neutrality, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China. <sup>7</sup>Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Functional Oxide Materials and Devices, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China. <sup>8</sup>Department of Chemistry, Kyung Hee University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. <sup>9</sup>Department of Chemistry, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singapore, Singap

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Fig. 1**| **Synthesis of ultrathin TMOCs. a**, Suspensions of exfoliated TMOC nanosheets. **b-d**, Oxygen content [ratio of O to (S + O)] under varying exfoliation conditions. The effects of exfoliation potential on  $HFS_xO_y(\mathbf{b})$ , exfoliation temperature on  $VSe_xO_y(\mathbf{c})$  and  $TBA^+$  concentration on  $TaTe_xO_y(\mathbf{d})$  are presented.

The error bars represent the s.d. based on three independent experiments. **e**, Atomic force microscope image of a representative nanosheet with the corresponding height profile. **f**,**g**, Scanning electron microscope image (**f**) and the corresponding EDX elemental maps (**g**) of exfoliated HfS $_{\nu}O_{\nu}$ . Scale bars, 5 µm.

An example of this is the water oxidation reaction in acidic environments. Proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolysis allows efficient and sustainable generation of hydrogen energy  $^{13}$ , but the rare-metal-containing oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysts have high cost, leading to serious obstacles  $^{14-17}$ . Earth-abundant materials such as TMDs that consist of catalytically active transition metals cannot be used for OER because of their poor stability in acids  $^{18}$ . By contrast, TMOs such as HfO  $_2$  are stable in acids, but their poor electrical conductivity limits catalytic performance  $^{19,20}$ .

Transition metal oxychalcogenide (TMOC) materials reported thus far in the literature consist of transition metals such as cobalt (group IX) and bismuth (group XV)<sup>21,22</sup> or alkali (group I)<sup>21,23</sup>, alkaline earth (group II) and rare earth metals<sup>24</sup>. These TMOCs have discrete compositions and show crystalline structures. They are known for their physical properties that enable them to be useful in various types of device<sup>22,24–27</sup>. In this Article, we report a general and scalable method for synthesizing groups IV and V TMOC nanosheets (HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, ZrS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, TiS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, TaS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, VSe<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, HfSe<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, ZrSe<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> and TaTe<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>, where *x* and *y* are S and O concentrations, respectively; x, y = 0-2) by electrochemical exfoliation. They have mixed structures consisting of crystalline regions (mostly TMDs) and amorphous regions (mostly TMOs). By tuning the exfoliation conditions, a full compositional range between TMDs and TMOs is achieved. Our TMOCs possess catalytic properties and exhibit potential in energy conversion applications.

#### **Results and discussion**

#### **Synthesis of TMOCs**

The electrochemical exfoliation was achieved (Methods and Supplementary Fig. 1) by cathodic intercalation of molecular ions of tetrabutylammonium (TBA<sup>+</sup>) between the layers of TMD bulk crystals. This

results in volume expansion and exfoliation of nanosheets (Fig. 1a). The exfoliation parameters such as applied potential, electrolyte temperature and TBA<sup>+</sup> concentration (Fig. 1b-d) affect intercalation strength, intercalation efficiency and defect formation. The nanosheets are exfoliated down to a few layers with a typical thickness being ~2.3 nm (Fig. 1e). Mild exfoliation with short duration (moderate potential. moderate TBA+ concentration, room temperature) gives rise to a low density of chalcogen vacancies, resulting in  $MX_{2-x}^{2}$ , where M is transition metal and X is chalcogen. A high degree of exfoliation with high potential, long duration or elevated temperature helps to generate a high density of chalcogen vacancies and more disordered structures. We found that the TMD oxidises at normal pressure (1 atm) to form TMOC nanosheets (Fig. 1f) with the stoichiometry of MX, O<sub>w</sub> as suggested by chemical analysis using electron dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX; Fig. 1g). The oxygen content can be tuned by modifying the exfoliation conditions as shown in Fig. 1b-d.

# Atomic structure and chemistry

The atomic structure of the exfoliated TMOCs at different oxygen concentrations was examined by high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM). The TMOCs are stable under STEM observation (Supplementary Fig. 2). The HfS $_x$ O $_y$  shows a hybrid structure consisting of crystalline and amorphous regions as shown in Fig. 2a–c. By contrast, HfS $_z$  is crystalline (Supplementary Fig. 3a) and HfO $_z$  is amorphous (Supplementary Fig. 3b). The mixed crystalline/amorphous structures have also been observed for other TMOCs (Supplementary Fig. 4). The polymorphs of the crystalline regions of exfoliated TMOCs are the same as those of their parent TMDs that we obtained by commercial routes (Supplementary Figs. 3a, 4 and 5a). To further investigate the structure of TMOCs, we combined

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Fig. 2**| **Structural evolution of HfS**<sub>x</sub>**O**<sub>y</sub> with varying oxygen content. **a-c**, Crystalline/amorphous HfS<sub>1.64</sub>O<sub>0.28</sub> (**a**), HfS<sub>0.52</sub>O<sub>1.09</sub> (**b**) and HfS<sub>0.31</sub>O<sub>1.48</sub> (**c**). Scale bars, 5 nm. The diffraction spots and the diffraction rings in the FFT patterns correspond to the crystalline and the amorphous structures, respectively. The multiple sets of diffraction points in **a** show the various lattice directions due to grain rotations and indicate the polycrystalline nature of the nanosheet <sup>53,54</sup>. Images in **a-c** were obtained by HAADF-STEM. Insets: FFT diffraction patterns obtained from the images. **d**, Amorphous content [a real ratio of amorphous regions to (amorphous + crystalline) regions] and  $d_{100}$ 

spacing as a function of oxygen content in HfS $_x$ O $_y$ . Error bars represent the s.d. of three independent imaging results.  $\mathbf{e}$ , Raman spectra of HfS $_x$ O $_y$  with HfS $_2$  and HfO $_2$  for comparison.  $\mathbf{f}$ , Hf  $_4$ f core-level XPS spectrum of HfS $_0$ s $_2$ O $_1$ O $_9$ . The shaded peaks in  $\mathbf{f}$  represent contributions from the two oxidation states (4+ and 5+), as indicated.  $\mathbf{g}$ , HfL $_3$ -edge XANES spectra. Inset: an enlarged view of the grey box, where the edge position shifts show the different valence states.  $\mathbf{h}$ , HfL $_3$ -edge EXAFS spectra of HfS $_2$  and HfS $_3$ O $_y$  with increasing oxygen content and HfO $_2$ . The vertical lines in  $\mathbf{h}$  represent the peaks from Hf-O and Hf-S bonds.

HAADF-STEM with EDX. As shown in Supplementary Fig. 5b-d, the crystalline region is primarily composed of TMDs and the amorphous region is primarily composed of TMOs. Some O atoms are also present in the crystalline regions and S atoms are also present in the amorphous regions. The O atoms in the crystalline regions are incorporated substitutionally (Supplementary Fig. 5a). With increasing oxygen content, the fraction of amorphous regions increases and the  $d_{100}$  spacing acquired from fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns decreases (Fig. 2d). The lattice shrinkage is attributed to the formation of defects such as S vacancies<sup>28</sup>. The vibrational properties of the TMOCs were measured by Raman spectroscopy. It can be seen from Fig. 2e that the characteristic E<sub>g</sub> and A<sub>ig</sub> vibrational modes of HfS<sub>2</sub> are suppressed with increasing oxidation<sup>29</sup>. Similar trends were observed in the Raman spectra for other TMDs. For example, the integrated intensities of characteristic peaks of NbS<sub>2</sub> and VSe<sub>2</sub> decrease as a function of oxygen content (Supplementary Fig. 6). The E modes disappear at high oxygen content, signifying the breakage of in-plane Nb-S and V-Se bonds<sup>30,31</sup>. As VSe<sub>2</sub> is oxidized, a peak corresponding to elemental Se is observed  $^{32}$ . This is due to leaching of Se atoms from the VSe $_2$  lattice, which can induce amorphization  $^{31,33}$ .

The chemical states and coordination environment of the transition metals in TMOCs were examined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) spectroscopy. For group IV TMOCs, the core-level XPS spectra plotted in Fig. 2f and Supplementary Fig. 7a,b show that the transition metals (Hf, Zr, Ti) reside in the +4 state from their sulfides or oxides (for example HfS2 or HfO2) where they are fully coordinated. The peaks are shifted with oxygen content (Supplementary Fig. 8a), resulting from the different chemical environments of the transition metal that is bound to S or O. The transition metals also reside in +8 states ( $2 \le \delta < 4$ ) when they are uncoordinated due to the presence of defects such as chalcogen vacancies<sup>33</sup>. X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra of the Hf L3 edge in Fig. 2g show that the white-line intensity and absorption energy of HfS2,O4 are lower compared with

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Fig. 3** | **Electrical and optical properties of TMOCs. a,b**, I-V curves acquired from electronic devices (lower inset; scale bar, 20  $\mu$ m) where HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> (**a**) and TaS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> (**b**) act as the channel material. The upper inset in **a** is the logarithmic plots of the curves in the grey box. **c**, Electrical resistivity of HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> and TaS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>

as a function of oxygen content. The results corresponding to pure sulfides and oxides with different oxygen concentrations are shown in  $\mathbf{a} - \mathbf{c}$  for comparison. Error bars represent the s.d. obtained from three independent devices.  $\mathbf{d}, \text{Ultraviolet-visible spectra of HfS}_2O_y \text{ with HfS}_2 \text{ and HfO}_2 \text{ for comparison.}$ 

those of  $HfS_2$  and  $HfO_2$  (lowest for  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$ ), suggesting a decreased oxidation state for Hf (refs. 14,34), which is in agreement with the XPS results (Fig. 2f). The bump feature observed in crystalline HfS<sub>2</sub> is absent in HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> (Supplementary Fig. 9), indicative of a high concentration of defects in HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> (ref. 35). According to the HAADF-STEM, XPS and XANES results, the structure of HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> can be understood as HfS<sub>2</sub> with varying concentrations of S vacancies and O substitutions, rather than as a mixture of pristine TMDs and pristine TMOs. The extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) results in Fig. 2h show that HfS<sub>2</sub> contains mostly Hf-S bonds (black dashed vertical line) and HfO<sub>2</sub> contains mostly Hf-O bonds (grey dashed vertical line). By contrast, both Hf-O and Hf-S bonds are observed for HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> (ref. 36), demonstrating that Hf atoms are chemically coordinated by S and O atoms. The stoichiometry of TMOCs was obtained by fitting the XPS spectra to gain the average oxidation state and the EXAFS spectra to obtain coordination numbers 14,16,34,36 (see Methods for details and Supplementary Tables 1-4). The XPS spectra of group V TMOCs are presented in Supplementary Figs. 7c,d and 8b. The transition metals (V, Nb and Ta) reside not only in +4 states from their dichalcogenides (for example NbS<sub>2</sub>) and +2 states from their uncoordinated species but also in +5 states from their oxides (for example Nb<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>). The increase in state from

+4 to +5 indicates that oxidation has occurred on the starting TMDs. In contrast to Hf<sup>4+</sup>, the peaks corresponding to Nb<sup>4+</sup> show negligible shifts regardless of the oxygen content (Supplementary Fig. 8b), suggesting that the chemical state of Nb is increased once oxidized and Nb–O bonds are formed.

#### Bandgap and electrical conductivity

To explore the physical properties, we fabricated devices based on ultrathin TMOCs with increasing oxygen content. The electrical measurements (Fig. 3a,b) demonstrate that the resistivity of TMOCs exfoliated from semiconducting HfS<sub>2</sub> and metallic TaS<sub>2</sub> can be tuned by more than six to eight orders of magnitude (Fig. 3c). The optical absorption of TMOCs is shown in Fig. 3d. The corresponding Tauc plots (Supplementary Fig. 10) indicate that the bandgap widens as the oxygen content increases (HfS<sub>2</sub>: -1.7 eV < HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub>: -2.5-2.8 eV < HfO<sub>2</sub>: -5.0 eV)  $^{37.38}$ , leading to a decrease in electrical conductivity.

#### Electrocatalysis for OER in acid

Based on the above findings, we sought to translate the fundamental material characteristics into proof-of-concept demonstration. We chose OER to investigate the electrochemical activity and stability of

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Fig. 4 | OER catalysis in electrolyte with pH  $\approx 0$ . a, Polarization curves for  $HfS_2$  and  $HfS_xO_y$  with varying oxygen content and  $HfO_2$  after iR correction. b, Tafel slopes acquired from a. c, Nyquist plots obtained by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. Inset: the equivalent circuit used to obtain impedance. d, Chronopotentiometric tests for  $HfS_2$  and  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$ . e, Comparison among different TMOCs of mass activity (left) at the overpotential of 0.5 V versus RHE

and potential change (right) after 24 h at 50 mA cm $^{-2}$ . Error bars represent the s.d. of four independent measurements and the data distribution is shown using grey triangles. **f**, I-V curves from PEM electrolysers with HfS $_{0.52}$ O $_{1.09}$ , TaS $_{1.08}$ O $_{0.75}$  or ZrS $_{0.64}$ O $_{1.03}$  as OER catalyst on the anode and 1T-MoS $_2$  as HER catalyst on the cathode. **g**, Stability measurement for HfS $_{0.52}$ O $_{1.09}$ ||1T-MoS $_2$  electrolyser operating at a current density of 20 mA cm $^{-2}$ .

TMOCs in acidic media (Supplementary Fig. 11a). Groups IV and VTMDs are not stable as catalysts for OER in acid and their full coordination makes them unfavourable for adsorption of intermediate species<sup>39</sup>. Groups IV and V TMOs can be stable at low pH but are too insulating for the reaction to proceed. Therefore, groups IV and V TMOCs with uncoordinated transition metal atoms in their structure may be suitable electrocatalysts. To validate this, we have studied the OER electrocatalysis of TMOC nanosheets at pH = 0.25. Figure 4a shows the polarization curves [current density as a function of applied potential (versus a reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE)] of HfS<sub>x</sub>O<sub>y</sub> nanosheets with different stoichiometries, along with HfS<sub>2</sub> and HfO<sub>2</sub> for comparison. The  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$  exhibits a current density of >1,000 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a potential of < 1.8 V versus RHE. The polarization curves of some other TMOCs are shown in Supplementary Fig. 12. The potentials have been iR-corrected (where iR indicates voltage loss (that is, iR drop) due to internal resistance of measurement set-up; R is resistance of the electrolyte solution) and normalized to the electrochemical surface area obtained by cyclic voltammetry (CV) at different scan rates (Supplementary Fig. 13). The highest double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) for HfS<sub>0.52</sub>O<sub>1.09</sub> indicates that it has the largest density of active sites compared with other Hf-based catalysts. The average overpotential for HfS<sub>0.52</sub>O<sub>1.09</sub> was found to be 295  $\pm$  7 mV versus RHE at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and the average Tafel slope was  $64 \pm 5$  mV dec<sup>-1</sup> (Supplementary Fig. 14). The

Nyquist plots in Fig. 4c indicate the lower electrochemical impedance of  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$ —facilitating the charge transfer and allowing the OER to proceed more efficiently.

The stability of the TMOCs at pH = 0.25 was monitored by recording the potential (versus RHE) required to maintain a current density of 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  with time. The overpotential only shows a small increase  $(14\pm3~\rm mV$  for HfS $_{0.52}O_{1.09}$ ,  $37\pm8~\rm mV$  for ZrS $_{0.64}O_{1.03}$  and  $92\pm10~\rm mV$  for TaS $_{1.08}O_{0.75}$ ) after 24 hours and the TMOCs are more durable than TMDs (Fig. 4d and Supplementary Fig. 16). This originates from the fact that the S $^{2-}$  in TMOCs is stabilized by hybridization of the S3p and O2p orbitals. Hence, they are more robust against self-oxidation  $^{40}$ . TMOCs were characterized by XPS after stability tests and a slight increase in the chemical states was observed for Hf, suggesting good stability in acid electrolyte, whereas those for Ta were increased to a larger extent (Supplementary Fig. 17).

Mass activity indicates how much current is produced by loading per unit amount of a catalyst. Low-dimensional catalysts are desired for high mass activity owing to their high specific surface area and enriched active sites  $^{41}$ . The average mass activity of HfS $_{0.52}O_{1.09}$  for OER in acidic media (pH = 0.25) is  $102,959\pm6,834$  A g $^{-1}$  at an overpotential of 0.5 V versus RHE. The exfoliation conditions were adjusted to obtain TMOCs showing the highest activity (Supplementary Table 5). The mass activities of the optimized TMOCs are compared in Fig. 4e. While there is lack

of reference data for earth-abundant ultrathin OER catalysts in acid<sup>41</sup>, the mass activity of  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$  is higher than those of many other catalysts that are measured in alkaline media (pH = 13 or 14; Supplementary Fig. 18a and Supplementary Table 6). Moreover, the stability is also compared in terms of overpotential change after 24 hours at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Fig. 4e). The stability of  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$  is comparable to those reported for similar materials  $^{39,42-46}$  (Supplementary Fig. 18b and Supplementary Table 7). The activities of the TMOC catalysts that we have optimized for OER at pH  $\approx$  0 are in the order:  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09} > ZrS_{0.64}O_{1.03} > TaS_{1.08}O_{0.75} > TiS_{0.78}O_{0.91} > NbS_{1.16}O_{0.83} > VSe_{0.94}O_{1.07}$ . The activity–stability balance of  $HfS_{0.52}O_{1.09}$  demonstrates that it is viable for realistic applications.

To further evaluate the potential of TMOCs for producing hydrogen, we constructed PEM water electrolysers with treated Nafion 117 membrane  $^{14,16}$  (Supplementary Fig. 11b). This is a state-of-the-art PEM electrolyser where the catalysts are free from rare earth or noble metal elements  $^{14-16,33,47}$ . TMOC (HfS $_{0.52}O_{1.09}$ , ZrS $_{0.64}O_{1.03}$  or TaS $_{1.08}O_{0.75}$ ) nanosheets were employed as the anode for OER and 2D 1T-MoS $_2$  as the cathode for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). The characterization and catalytic activities of 1T-MoS $_2$  are shown in Supplementary Fig. 19. The electrolysers suggest that high current densities (Fig. 4f) and operation for 120 hours (Fig. 4g and Supplementary Fig. 20) can be achieved with TMOCs.

In summary, we have synthesized a family of ultrathin materials, namely, TMOC nanosheets. The control of synthesis enables us to tune the composition and structure of TMOCs. TMOCs have unique properties compared with TMDs and TMOs, which may render them promising in applications that are unlikely to be realized by TMDs or TMOs. The synthesis of TMOCs provides the community an open strategy of material design for targeted functionalities.

# Methods

# Materials synthesis

The TMOC nanosheets were synthesized by electrochemical exfoliation using a potentiostat (ModuLab XM, Solartron Analytical, Ametek Scientific Instruments or CHI 760E, Shanghai CH Instrument). Bulk crystals of TMDs (2D Semiconductors or HQ Graphene) acted as the cathode, a carbon rod acted as the anode and the electrolyte was tetrabutylammonium tetrafluoroborate (TBATFB, 99%, Sigma Aldrich) dissolved in N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF, 99.8%, Thermo Fisher Scientific). For each batch, the size of the TMD crystal was ~0.01 mm<sup>2</sup> and the anode-to-cathode distance was fixed at 1.2 cm. When a negative potential was applied, the TBA+ cations along with the DMF molecules co-intercalated into these layered materials, so that cathodic reduction and exfoliation took place simultaneously<sup>2</sup>. The exfoliation was controlled by tuning the cathodic potential, TBA+ concentration and electrolyte temperature, the parameters of which were kept constant during the whole exfoliation. The potential was applied by chronoamperometry. A thermocouple was immerged into the electrolyte to monitor the temperature. For comparison, single-crystalline TMD flakes were prepared by mechanical exfoliation with Scotch tapes. The 1T-MoS<sub>2</sub> was synthesized by chemical exfoliation using n-butyllithium solution in hexane (1.6 M, Sigma Aldrich) as the intercalation agent, the protocol of which was elaborated previously<sup>5</sup>. To rinse the electrochemically exfoliated products, the suspension was rested until the nanosheets completely sedimented. Then, the TBATFB-DMF electrolyte was removed and ethanol (≥99.8%, Thermo Fisher Scientific) was poured in, followed by gentle shaking of the vial to disperse the nanosheets. The above steps were repeated several times. Then, the samples were drop-casted onto a substrate and dried under normal temperature and pressure (20 °C and 1 atm) before characterization and measurements.

# Characterization

The nanosheets were supported by gold (100 nm)-coated Si chips for scanning electron microscopy, EDX and XPS, on SiO<sub>2</sub> (300 nm)/Si chips

for atomic force microscopy and Raman spectroscopy and on copper grids covered with carbon films for HAADF-STEM. The imaging took place at room temperature utilizing a scanning electron microscope (Nova NanoSEM 450, FEI) equipped with an energy-dispersive detector at an accelerating voltage of 15.0 kV and a high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscope (JEM-ARM200F, JEOL) equipped with double hexapole C<sub>S</sub> correctors (CEOS GmbH) at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. The samples were stored in ultrahigh vacuum overnight before EDX mapping to minimize the physiosorbed O species. The nanosheet thickness was examined using an atomic force microscope (Bruker Dimension FastScan) in tapping mode. The Raman spectra were recorded on a confocal Raman microscope (alpha 300 R, WITec). A1 mW, 532 nm (2.33 eV) diode laser was employed for excitation (spot size of 1 um, acquisition time of 10 s). XPS was conducted using a spectrometer (ESCALab250Xi, Thermo Scientific) in ultrahigh vacuum (base pressure of  $3 \times 10^{-10}$  mbar) with X-ray Al K $\alpha$  monochromatic light (energy of 1,486.84 eV). The diameter of the circular light spot was adjustable in the range  $900-100 \, \mu m$ . The testing depth was 3-7 nm. The XANES and EXAFS spectra were recorded at the Singapore Synchrotron Light Source using a Si(111) double-crystal monochromator at an accelerating voltage of 700 MeV and a beam current of 200 mA. The stoichiometry of TMOCs was determined by XPS (and EXAFS) measurements. For each TMOC, the core-level XPS spectrum of the transition metal was fitted to obtain its chemical states. The stoichiometric ratio of transition metal to (S + O) was estimated by integrating the areas under the curves for each state and calculating the percentage of each state. For Hf-based TMOCs, the EXAFS spectra were fitted to estimate the ratio of S to O, considering the small difference in binding energy between Hf-S and Hf-O (Fig. 2f). For other TMOCs, we used XPS to suggest the atomic ratio between chalcogen and oxygen, then high-resolution O1s XPS spectra were fitted to obtain the percentage of chemically bonded oxygen by excluding the contributions from chemisorbed and physisorbed oxygen<sup>14,48</sup> (see Supplementary Fig. 7c as an example).

# **Electrochemical measurements**

The catalytic performance was measured in N<sub>2</sub>-purged aqueous solutions of 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> (Sigma Aldrich). The pH value was 0.25, as determined by a microprocessor pH meter (Hanna Instruments). A three-electrode system was employed (ModuLab XM, Solartron Analytical, Ametek Scientific Instruments or CHI 760E, Shanghai CH Instrument). The working electrode was fabricated as below. The catalysts were rinsed using ethanol (≥99.8%, Thermo Fisher Scientific), after which 20 µl Nafion 117 solution (5 wt%, Sigma Aldrich) was added into  $1\,ml\,of the\,suspension.\,Once\,dispersed, the\,mixture\,was\,drop\text{-}cast\,onto$ a glassy carbon surface and dried in vacuum. Other supports including carbon paper (190 µm, polytetrafluoroethylene-treated for 5% wet proofing, Toray Industries) and fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO)-coated glass (750 nm/1 mm, Ossila) were also used to evaluate the reproducibility of the results. The mass loading of the catalysts was 0.1 mg. A carbon rod and standard calomel electrode (SCE) were chosen as the counter and reference electrodes, respectively. The polarization curves were obtained by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) under quasi-equilibrium conditions at a scan rate  $(k_s)$  of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. All the potentials measured against SCE were calibrated to RHE using the equation: E(RHE) = $E(SCE) + 0.241 \text{ V} + 0.0591 \times \text{ pH}$  and were corrected by iR compensation. The electrolyte resistance was determined as the high-frequency intercept of the Nyquist plot acquired from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The electrochemical surface area is the ratio of  $C_{\rm dl}$ to  $C_s(\frac{C_{dl}}{C})$ , where  $C_s$  represents the specific capacitance). CV was carried out at different  $k_s$  (5–120 mV s<sup>-1</sup>), then  $C_{\rm dl}$  was estimated by deriving the slope value from the linear regression between half of the current density variation and the scan rate  $(\frac{\Delta j_{geo}}{2} \text{ versus } k_s)$ .  $C_s$  is expressed as  $\frac{A_{\rm CV}}{2\times k_s \times \Delta V \times A_{\rm geo}}$ , where  $A_{\rm CV}$  is the area of the CV curve at a certain  $k_s$ ,  $\Delta V$  is the potential window and  $A_{\rm geo}$  is the geometric area of catalysts on the substrate. In PEM water electrolysis, the anode and the cathode were prepared by depositing the OER catalyst (TMOCs) and the HER catalyst (2D1T-MoS<sub>2</sub>), respectively, onto carbon paper. The cell was separated by a perfluorinated Nafion membrane (Nafion 117, Sigma Aldrich). The surface area of the electrodes was 1 cm × 1 cm. The polarization curves of the PEM water electrolysers were recorded from the current density of 100 to 2,300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The stability of OER and PEM water electrolysis was investigated by measuring the potential versus RHE and the cell voltage, respectively, while keeping the current density at constant values. The cell voltages of the water electrolysers were not iR-corrected. Potential reduction could take place at the beginning of the chronopotentiometric tests, which might be due to the activization of the system.

#### Density functional theory calculations

Density functional theory calculations were performed using the plane-wave technique in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP)  $^{49,50}$ . The projected augmented wave (PAW) pseudo-potentials and the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) exchange–correlation functional were adopted in all calculations  $^{52}$ . The energy cutoff was set as 400 eV for the plane-wave basis set for the sake of high accuracy. A vacuum layer of 20 Å was used to avoid the interference of the adjacent periodic images. For supercells featuring distinct geometries or sizes, Monkhorst–Pack k-point sampling was implemented with a grid spacing of -0.03 Å  $^{-1}$  along each reciprocal lattice vector within the Brillouin zone. The energy and force convergence criteria were set to  $10^{-4}$  eV and 0.01 eV Å  $^{-1}$ , respectively. The computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) method was applied to determine the Gibbs free energy ( $\Delta G$ ) of the reaction intermediates (OH\*, O\* and OOH\*), using the following equation

$$\Delta G = \Delta E + \Delta E_{\rm ZPE} - T \Delta S \tag{1}$$

where  $\Delta E$ ,  $\Delta E$ <sub>ZPE</sub> and  $\Delta S$  represent the difference between the total energy, zero point energy and entropy, respectively and T represents the temperature (298.15 K). The electrochemical potential of an electron–proton pair ( $H^++e^-$ ) is equal to the free energy of half a hydrogen molecule (1/2 H<sub>2</sub>) at standard pressure.

#### Data availability

All data that support the findings of this study are available in the article and its Supplementary Information. Source data are provided with this paper.

# References

- <span id="page-6-0"></span> Coleman, J. N. et al. Two-dimensional nanosheets produced by liquid exfoliation of layered materials. Science 331, 568–571 (2011).
- <span id="page-6-1"></span> Yang, R. et al. Synthesis of atomically thin sheets by the intercalation-based exfoliation of layered materials. *Nat. Synth.* 2, 101–118 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-2"></span> Zhao, M., Casiraghi, C. & Parvez, K. Electrochemical exfoliation of 2D materials beyond graphene. Chem. Soc. Rev. 53, 3036–3064 (2024).
- <span id="page-6-3"></span> Chhowalla, M. et al. The chemistry of two-dimensional layered transition metal dichalcogenide nanosheets. *Nat. Chem.* 5, 263–275 (2013).
- <span id="page-6-4"></span> Eda, G. et al. Photoluminescence from chemically exfoliated MoS<sub>2</sub>. Nano Lett. 11, 5111–5116 (2011).
- Voiry, D. et al. Conducting MoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets as catalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction. Nano Lett. 13, 6222–6227 (2013).
- 7. Acerce, M., Voiry, D. & Chhowalla, M. Metallic 1T phase MoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheets as supercapacitor electrode materials. *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **10**, 313–318 (2015).
- <span id="page-6-5"></span> Li, Z. et al. Lithiated metallic molybdenum disulfide nanosheets for high-performance lithium-sulfur batteries. *Nat. Energy* 8, 84–93 (2023).

- <span id="page-6-6"></span> Lin, Z. et al. Solution-processable 2D semiconductors for high-performance large-area electronics. *Nature* 562, 254–258 (2018).
- <span id="page-6-7"></span> Tan, C. & Zhang, H. Wet-chemical synthesis and applications of non-layer structured two-dimensional nanomaterials. *Nat. Commun.* 6, 7873 (2015).
- <span id="page-6-8"></span> Zhao, Z. et al. A general thermodynamics-triggered competitive growth model to guide the synthesis of two-dimensional nonlayered materials. *Nat. Commun.* 14, 958 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-9"></span> Chia, X. & Pumera, M. Characteristics and performance of two-dimensional materials for electrocatalysis. *Nat. Catal.* 1, 909–921 (2018).
- <span id="page-6-10"></span> Shih, A. J. et al. Water electrolysis. Nat. Rev. Methods Prim. 2, 84 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-11"></span>14. Chong, L. et al. La- and Mn-doped cobalt spinel oxygen evolution catalyst for proton exchange membrane electrolysis. *Science* **380**, 609–616 (2023).
- Wu, Z. Y. et al. Non-iridium-based electrocatalyst for durable acidic oxygen evolution reaction in proton exchange membrane water electrolysis. *Nat. Mater.* 22, 100–108 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-22"></span> Zheng, X. et al. Ir-Sn pair-site triggers key oxygen radical intermediate for efficient acidic water oxidation. Sci. Adv. 9, eadi8025 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-12"></span>17. Li, A. et al. Atomically dispersed hexavalent iridium oxide from  $MnO_2$  reduction for oxygen evolution catalysis. Science **2**, 666–670 (2024).
- <span id="page-6-13"></span> Gao, J., Tao, H. & Liu, B. Progress of nonprecious-metal-based electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution in acidic media. *Adv. Mater.* 33, 2003786 (2021).
- <span id="page-6-14"></span> Li, M. et al. Comparison of chemical stability and corrosion resistance of group IV metal oxide films formed by thermal and plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition. Sci. Rep. 9, 10438 (2019).
- <span id="page-6-15"></span> Zeng, K. et al. Recent advances in non-noble bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts toward large-scale production. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* 30, 2000503 (2020).
- <span id="page-6-16"></span> Cheng, J. et al. Superconductivity in a layered cobalt oxychalcogenide Na<sub>2</sub>CoSe<sub>2</sub>O with a triangular lattice. *J. Am. Chem.* Soc. **146**, 5908–5915 (2024).
- <span id="page-6-17"></span> Parida, A., Senapati, S. & Naik, R. Recent developments on Bi-based oxychalcogenide materials with thermoelectric and optoelectronic applications: an overview. *Mater. Today Chem.* 26, 101149 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-18"></span>23. Zhou, X. et al. Coherent approach to two-dimensional heterolayered oxychalcogenides using molten hydroxides. *Nat. Synth.* **1**, 729–737 (2022).
- <span id="page-6-19"></span>24. Kumar, P. C., Senapati, S. & Naik, R. A comprehensive review on synthesis, properties, and applications of quaternary transition metal oxychalcogenides. *FlatChem* **44**, 100619 (2024).
- Kumar, P. C., Pradhan, G. K., Senapati, S. & Naik, R. Two-dimensional Bi<sub>2</sub>O<sub>5</sub>Te nanosheets for sensitive and fast response broadband visible light photodetectors. ACS Appl. Electron. Mater. 6, 3311–3324 (2024).
- Kumar, P. C., Senapati, S., Pradhan, M., Pradhan, G. K. & Naik, R. Laser power and high-temperature dependent Raman studies of layered bismuth and copper-based oxytellurides for optoelectronic applications. *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* 26, 12231–12245 (2024).
- <span id="page-6-20"></span> Kumar, P. C., Mohapatra, A., Senapati, S., Pradhan, M. & Naik, R. A facile microwave-assisted synthesis of bismuth copper oxytelluride for optoelectronic and photodetection applications. FlatChem 42, 100580 (2023).
- <span id="page-6-21"></span> Chen, J. et al. Atomic-level dynamics of point vacancies and the induced stretched defects in 2D monolayer PtSe<sub>2</sub>. Nano Lett. 22, 3289–3297 (2022).

- <span id="page-7-0"></span>29. Xu, K. et al. Ultrasensitive phototransistors based on few-layered HfS2. *Adv. Mater.* **27**, 7881–7887 (2015).
- <span id="page-7-1"></span>30. Zhou, J. et al. Ultrathin metallic NbS2 nanosheets with unusual intercalation mechanism for ultra-stable potassium-ion storage. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **32**, 2204495 (2022).
- <span id="page-7-2"></span>31. Yu, W. et al. Chemically exfoliated VSe2 monolayers with room-temperature ferromagnetism. *Adv. Mater.* **31**, 1903779 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-3"></span>32. Liu, H. et al. Quasi-2D transport and weak antilocalization efect in few-layered VSe2. *Nano Lett.* **19**, 4551–4559 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-4"></span>33. He, Y. et al. Amorphizing noble metal chalcogenide catalysts at the single-layer limit towards hydrogen production. *Nat. Catal.* **5**, 212–221 (2022).
- <span id="page-7-7"></span>34. Qiao, B. et al. Single-atom catalysis of CO oxidation using Pt1/FeO*x*. *Nat. Chem.* **3**, 634–641 (2011).
- <span id="page-7-8"></span>35. Cho, D. Y., Park, T. J., Na, K. D., Kim, J. H. & Hwang, C. S. Structural disorders in an amorphous HfO2 film probed by x-ray absorption fine structure analysis. *Phys. Rev. B* **78**, 132102 (2008).
- <span id="page-7-9"></span>36. Sun, T. et al. Ferromagnetic single-atom spin catalyst for boosting water splitting. *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **18**, 763–771 (2023).
- <span id="page-7-10"></span>37. Mattinen, M. et al. Atomic layer deposition of emerging 2D semiconductors, HfS2 and ZrS2, for optoelectronics. *Chem. Mater.* **31**, 5713–5724 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-11"></span>38. Afanas'ev, V. V., Stesmans, A., Chen, F., Shi, X. & Campbell, S. A. Internal photoemission of electrons and holes from (100)Si into HfO2. *Appl. Phys. Lett.* **81**, 1053–1055 (2002).
- <span id="page-7-12"></span>39. Wu, J. et al. Exfoliated 2D transition metal disulfides for enhanced electrocatalysis of oxygen evolution reaction in acidic medium. *Adv. Mater. Interfaces* **3**, 1500669 (2016).
- <span id="page-7-13"></span>40. Wang, Q. et al. Oxysulfide photocatalyst for visible-light-driven overall water splitting. *Nat. Mater.* **18**, 827–832 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-14"></span>41. Hu, S. et al. Low-dimensional electrocatalysts for acidic oxygen evolution: intrinsic activity, high current density operation, and long-term stability. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **32**, 2201726 (2022).
- <span id="page-7-15"></span>42. Sun, J. et al. Ultrathin nitrogen-doped holey carbon@graphene bifunctional electrocatalyst for oxygen reduction and evolution reactions in alkaline and acidic media. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **57**, 16511–16515 (2018).
- 43. Zhao, Z. et al. Tailoring manganese oxide nanoplates enhances oxygen evolution catalysis in acid. *J. Catal.* **405**, 265–272 (2022).
- 44. Lei, C. et al. High-performance metal-free nanosheets array electrocatalyst for oxygen evolution reaction in acid. *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **30**, 2003000 (2020).
- 45. Mondschein, J. S. et al. Crystalline cobalt oxide films for sustained electrocatalytic oxygen evolution under strongly acidic conditions. *Chem. Mater.* **29**, 950–957 (2017).
- <span id="page-7-16"></span>46. Wei, Q. et al. Fabrication of Co doped MoS2 nanosheets with enlarged interlayer spacing as eficient and pH-universal bifunctional electrocatalyst for overall water splitting. *Ceram. Int.* **47**, 24501–24510 (2021).
- <span id="page-7-17"></span>47. Yang, J. et al. Ultrahigh-current-density niobium disulfide catalysts for hydrogen evolution. *Nat. Mater.* **18**, 1309–1314 (2019).
- <span id="page-7-18"></span>48. Frankcombe, T. J. & Liu, Y. Interpretation of oxygen 1s X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy of ZnO. *Chem. Mater.* **35**, 5468–5474 (2023).
- <span id="page-7-19"></span>49. Kresse, G. Eficient iterative schemes for *ab initio* total-energy calculations using a plane-wave basis set. *Phys. Rev. B* **54**, 11169 (1996).
- <span id="page-7-20"></span>50. Kresse, G. & Furthmüller, J. Eficiency of ab-initio total energy calculations for metals and semiconductors using a plane-wave basis set. *Comput. Mater. Sci.* **6**, 15–50 (1996).
- <span id="page-7-21"></span>51. Blöchl, P. E. Projector augmented-wave method. *Phys. Rev. B* **50**, 17953 (1994).

- <span id="page-7-22"></span>52. Perdew, J. P., Burke, K. & Ernzerhof, M. Generalized gradient approximation made simple. *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **77**, 3865 (1996).
- <span id="page-7-5"></span>53. Zhao, X. et al. Mo-terminated edge reconstructions in nanoporous molybdenum disulfide film. *Nano Lett.* **18**, 482–490 (2018).
- <span id="page-7-6"></span>54. Chen, J. et al. Atomic structure of dislocations and grain boundaries in two-dimensional PtSe2. *ACS Nano* **15**, 16748–16759 (2021).

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Royal Society of the UK (AL/211043). M.C. and W.X. acknowledge the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC, EP/V012932/1). Y. Wu acknowledges the Facility for Analysis, Characterization, Testing and Simulation (FACTS), Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, for use of their electron microscopy facilities. S.X. is grateful for support provided by the State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering-Open Fund (KL20-07). X.W. thanks the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC-52372054), the Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory Program of the Guangdong Science and Technology Department (2021B1212040001) and the Youth Innovation Promotion Association, Chinese Academy of Sciences. K.P.L. is grateful for a grant from the Centre for Hydrogen Innovation (CHI-P2022-01). F.D. thanks the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC-22333005) and the High Talent Support from Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology (SE3G0991010) and is grateful for a startup grant from Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology.

# **Author contributions**

M.C. conceived the idea, supervised the project and wrote the paper with W.X. Synthesis of the materials was performed by W.X. who designed the experiments and performed the scanning electron microscopy, EDX, atomic force microscopy, Raman spectroscopy, and electrical and electrochemical measurements. Y. Wu performed the HAADF-STEM. S.X. performed the XAFS measurements. Yan Wang performed the device fabrication. Ye Wang performed the ultraviolet−visible spectroscopy. Y.K. performed the XPS. J.Y. assisted in reproduction and analysis of the electrochemical data. L.D., X.W. and F.D. performed the theoretical calculations. X.W., W.Z., K.P.L., F.D., Z.L. and M.C. provided resources throughout the project. All authors discussed the results and commented on the paper.

# **Competing interests**

W.X. and M.C. are named on a UK patent application (GB2318420.3). The other authors declare no competing interests.

# **Additional information**

**Supplementary information** The online version contains supplementary material available at <https://doi.org/10.1038/s44160-024-00694-3>.

**Correspondence and requests for materials** should be addressed to Manish Chhowalla.

**Peer review information** *Nature Synthesis* thanks Ramakanta Naik and Nikos Tagmatarchis for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Primary Handling Editor: Alexandra Groves, in collaboration with the *Nature Synthesis* team.

**Reprints and permissions information** is available at [www.nature.com/reprints](http://www.nature.com/reprints).

**Publisher's note** Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional afiliations. **Open Access** This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless

indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

© The Author(s) 2025