---
source: Yang 等 - 2020 - Well‐Monodispersed Iron‐Doped InOOH Nanoparticles with Enhanced Activity for Oxygen Evolution.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.779s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:20:49.920808Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Well Monodispersed Fe Doped InOOH Nanoparticles with Enhanced Activity for Oxygen Evolution

**Authors:** Liping Yang, Jianxin Han, Jifu Zhang, Yanxin Li, Wei Wang, Lixin Cao, and Bohua Dong

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemElectroChem* 10.1002/celc.202000919

**Link to VoR:** https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.202000919

# **Well Monodispersed Fe Doped InOOH Nanoparticles with Enhanced Activity for Oxygen Evolution**

Liping Yang,[a] Jianxin Han,[a] Jifu Zhang,[a] Yanxin Li,[a] Wei Wang,[a] [b] Lixin Cao\*[a] and Bohua Dong\*[a]

[a] Liping Yang, Jianxin Han, Jifu Zhang, Yanxin Li, Prof. W. Wang, Prof. Lixin Cao and Prof. Bohua Dong, School of Materials Science and Engineering Ocean University of China 238 Songling Road, Qingdao, Shandong 266100, P. R. China E-mail: caolixin@ouc.edu.cn; [dongbohua@ouc.edu.cn](mailto:dongbohua@ouc.edu.cn)

[b] Prof. W. Wang Aramco Research Center-Boston Aramco Services Company Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, United States

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

**Abstract:** Designing efficient and stable catalysts with smaller-sized nanostructure holds promising in alkaline water electrolysis, especially for oxygen evolution reaction (OER), whereas selecting proper candidates and facile synthetic strategy remain challengeable. Herein, well monodispersed InOOH nanoparticles (NPs) tailored by Fe doping with diameters about 7nm are synthesized via two-phase colloidal method and secondary solvothermal process. Benefiting from the large electrochemically active surface area given by the unique monodispersed nanoparticles morphology, more active sites generated by tunable Fe doping which can increase the OER activity of the host oxide and the synergistic effect between In and Fe, Fedoped InOOH NPs exhibits superior electrocatalytic activity toward OER. As a result, well monodispersed Fe-doped InOOH NPs could achieve current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm−2 at overpotentials of 220 mV and 266 mV, respectively, in alkaline media (1.0 M KOH), and possess an excellent catalytic durability of 27 hours, transcending most of reported Fe-rich OER electrocatalysts.

### **1. Introduction**

The growing depletion of fossil fuels and the increasingly serious environmental pollution are prompting many efforts to seek green energy.[1] Hydrogen has been seen as the most promising clean and sustainable resources in the 21 century.[2] Compared with other developed new energy, hydrogen has several captivating characteristics such as high energy density, non-toxic and pollution-free, which can be synthesized by the water splitting process taking use of excess renewable resources. Water splitting process involves the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER).[3] Involving four electron-proton coupled reaction, the oxygen evolution reaction needs higher energy to overcome the kinetic barriers and is considered as the rate-limiting step in water splitting.[4] Thus, considerable research effects have been carried out to develop efficient OER catalysts with a high eleccatalytic activity and a lowered overpotential.[5-7] Until now, electrocatalysts based on IrO<sup>2</sup> and RuO<sup>2</sup> exhibited outstanding OER activity under both acidic and alkaline conditions.[8] However, the scarcity and high cost of these materials hamper their largescale commercialization.[9] Obviously, it remains to be a daunting but

imperative task to develop efficient, stable and low cost OER catalysts for furtherly improving the efficiency of water splitting.

The design and synthesis of OER catalysts based of nonprecious metals has become a research focus in the field of energy storage and conversion.[10-12] Transition metal–based oxyhydroxides are attractive electrocatalyst candidates due to their water oxidation activity in alkaline medium and low cost, such as FeOOH, CoOOH, NiOOH, VOOH, CrOOH and so on. [13-15] However, InOOH, a typical oxyhydroxide, which has been reported the photocatalytic activities in the organic contaminants degradation and water splitting, nevertheless, has received no attention among electrocatalysts towards OER. [16, 17] Generally, because of the disadvantage of limited electronic configuration, the catalytic efficiency of monometallic oxyhydroxide is still below expectation.[18] Therefore, doping with other metal elements with high catalytic activity has been regarded as an attractive way to increase the intrinsic activity. [19, 20] On account of the differences of the electronic configuration and atomic radius of the heteroatom, the initial lattices of host may tend to contort and trigger the local electron redistribution, which can activate the dopants or atoms of host to be the active sites and improve the conductivity of host catalysts, thereby providing more opportunities for improving the OER performance. In addition, constructing bimetal electrocatalysts by doping method attracted much attention due to the synergetic interplay between the two different metal atoms in adjusting the electronic features of catalysts.[21, 22] Intriguingly, it is discovered that Fe, an electrochemically active element, can strikingly enhance the OER catalytic activity of catalysts even at low dopant concentrations.[23, 24] Tremendous research has showed the important role of Fe in enhancing the activity of NiFeOOH system. [25] Furthermore, Fan et al. synthesized two dimensional (2 D) bifunctional electrocatalyst (Fe-Ni3C-2%), the Fe-doped Ni3C nanodots in Ndoped carbon nanosheets exhibited a good catalytic activity with η = 275 mV at 10 mA cm−2 .They supposed that the appropriate doping of Fe might generate new active sites and nickel vacancies, which can enhance the electronic properties and surface composition of Ni3C.[26] Similarly, Fominykh and co-workers found that Fe incorporation increases the intrinsic activity of NiO, and Fe0.1Ni0.9O exhibited the best catalytic activity with an overpotential of 297 mV to drive 10 mA cm−2 . [27]

As far as we all know, the morphology of the catalyst has a significant impact on its electrocatalytic performance, therefore, the morphology design has become another efficient means to modify OER catalysts.[27-29] Nanostructure design is one of the efficient ways to implement it. Smaller-sized nanostructured materials could provide a large surface area with numerous reaction sites, improving electrocatalytic performances [30] Taking this into account, reducing the size of catalysts and producing lowdimensional nanostructure to increase the number of active sites is a practical way to enhance OER activity. [31-33] For example. well-designed nanoparticles, which have intrinsic merits beneficial for OER such as large specific surface area, insufficient coordination of surface atoms, defects on surface and enhanced surface activity, can be a promising option for OER catalyst. [34, 35]

Inspired by the above discussions, it could be anticipated that monodispersed In-(oxy)hydroxides nanoparticles with optimum Fe content will exhibit excellent electrocatalytic performance. Herein, we present the synthesis of well monodispersed Fedoped InOOH nanoparticles (Fe-InOOH NPs) for efficient OER catalysis. The morphology-controlled strategy, which can tune the density of accessible active centers, are adopted for enhancing the OER activity of catalysts. The unique monodispersed nanoparticles morphology aggrandizes the active surface area and boosts the surface activity. The strategy of Fe doping not only ameliorative the defect of inherent low activity of InOOH but also generates synergistic effect between In and Fe which can improve the conductivity of Fe-InOOH NPs. In 1.0 M KOH, the obtained Fe-InOOH NPs manifest prominent electrocatalytic performance with an overpotential of 220 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> and Tafel slope of 44.23 mV dec-1 , as well as excellent long-term stability. This study can provide a promising candidate for transition metal hydroxides as high-efficiency electrocatalysts for OER.

### **2. Results and Discussion**

To fabricate well monodispersed Fe-doped InOOH NPs, we employ a facile two-phase colloidal method on the base of our previous work.[36] The Scheme 1 illustrates the fabrications of InOOH NPs and Fe-InOOH NPs. Oleylamine (OM) and octadecene (ODE) were chosen as hydrophobic phase, the hydrophilic phase was comprised of sodiummolybdate solution as an alkali source. The reaction is confined to the two-phase interface of the immiscible water and oil phases, which is conducive to the formation of low-dimensional morphology products. Compared with the synthesis process of InOOH NPs, the doping of Fe was conducted by secondary solvothermal process. And the stoichiometry can be readily controlled by adjusting the molar ratio of In3+ and Fe3+ precursors in the solvothermal process. We named the samples according to the mole ratio of Fe/In during the synthesis process, for example, 10Fe-InOOH means the molar ratio of Fe/In is 1:10. Unless otherwise stated, the Fe-InOOH in the entire article refers to the sample whose Fe/In ratio is 1:10. Pure InOOH NPs and Fe-doped InOOH NPs were recovered as powder from the autoclave (seeing more details in the Experimental Section).

What's more, the samples were characterized as follows. The structural characterization of samples carried out firstly. As is shown in Figure 1a, the XRD pattern of pure InOOH NPs exhibits several noticeable diffraction peaks matching well with

**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration for two-step solvothermal of well monodispersed Fe-doped InOOH NPs.

the standard patterns of InOOH (JCPDS no. 071-2283). Compared to InOOH NPs, the XRD pattern of Fe-InOOH NPs exhibits the same characteristic peaks with no significant difference in the XRD patterns, in line with the standard XRD patterns for InOOH. And that crystal structure of the doped InOOH sample kept well after Fe incorporating. Meanwhile, no obvious peaks induced from other materials were found in the XRD pattern, indicating the prepared catalyst is pure phase. The slight negative shift of the diffraction peaks of Fe-InOOH NPs implies the partial incorporation of Fe ions raise the tensile strain in the host matrix of InOOH. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was further employed to investigate the morphology of the InOOH, demonstrating uniformly dispersed nanoparticles in Figure 1b. The histogram of size distribution (inset of Figure 1b) shows that the average nanoparticle diameters of InOOH NPs are approximately 6.6 nm. Moreover, Fe-InOOH NPs still maintain similar morphology and size (6.7 nm) in comparison to InOOH NPs, as shown in Figure 1c. The zero dimensional and well monodispersed Fe-InOOH nanoparticles are expected to expose large specific surface area and facilitate the infiltration of electrolyte, thereby elevating the electrocatalytic activity. The corresponding selected-area electron-diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure 1d) displayed an ordered lattice structure indicating polycrystalline nature of the as-prepared Fe-doped InOOH NPs. In addition, as indicated in the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) (Figure 1e), the atomic lattice fringes with the spacing of 0.205 nm, 0.276nm and 0.323nm can be assigned to (120), (101) and (110) planes of InOOH, respectively. Note that the presence of HRTEM and SAED only show lattice fringe and ordered lattice for InOOH phase suggesting that the synthesized Fe doped InOOH sample is not a mixture of Fe2O<sup>3</sup> and InOOH. The energydispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping in Figure 1f demonstrates the homogeneous distribution of In, Fe and O elements over the selected area without apparent element aggregations or separations which could be observed. Inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) concludes an atomic ratio of 1:15.28 for Fe/In (Table S1).

The chemical composition and electronic state in the surface of Fe-InOOH NPs were confirmed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), which is an indispensable part in studying the electrocatalytic performance. As shown in Figure 2a, elements of Fe, In and O could be observed in the survey spectrum of Fe-InOOH nanoparticles. The XPS peaks of In (Figure 2b) are observed at 444.5 eV (3d5/2) and 452 eV (3d3/2), corresponding to oxidation states of In3+, which is

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD patterns of InOOH and Fe-InOOH products, (b) TEM image of InOOH NPs, (c) TEM image of Fe-InOOH NPs, (d) SAED pattern of Fe-InOOH NPs, (e) HRTEM image and (f) the elemental mapping of the elements O, In and Fe of Fe-InOOH NPs. Inset in (b): The histogram of size distribution of InOOH NPs. Inset in (c): The histogram of size distribution of Fe-InOOH NPs.

consistent with the previous study.[16] The Fe 2p spectrum in Figure 2c exhibits two main peaks for Fe 2p3/2 and Fe 2p1/2 at a BE of around 711.6 eV and 725.1 eV, indicating the presence of Fe3+ . [37-39] Figure 2d is the O 1s high-resolution XPS spectrum, which exhibits three peaks at a BE of 530.0 eV, 531eV, and 532 eV, corresponding to metal oxygen bond, -OH and adsorbed molecular water, respectively. [40-42] The above analysis confirmed the successful synthesis of Fe-InOOH NPs.

In 1.0 M KOH solution with a typical three-electrode configuration, we assessed the OER electrocatalytic performance of Fe-InOOH NPs catalysts. For comparison, InOOH, FeOOH, commercial IrO<sup>2</sup> and bare NF were also evaluated under the same condition as control samples The FeOOH was prepared referring to the previous methods,[43] and the XRD pattern (Figure S1) of FeOOH match well with the standard pattern (JCPDS 341266). All datas in this work were measured after cyclic voltammetry (CV) activation and implemented with 90% iR compensation. Figure 3a depicts the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of samples on a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale in 1.0 M KOH with a scan rate of 3 mV s−1 at room temperature. As displayed in Figure 3b, intuitively, the bare Ni foam provides lower anodic current density when the applied potential is below 1.70 V, indicating poor OER activity. For undoped InOOH, the overpotentials required to arrive at 10 and 100 mA cm-2 were 318 and 392 mV, respectively. Noticeably, FeOOH shows much better OER catalytic activity than InOOH, even better than IrO2, which is consistent with previous reports.[43, 45] Remarkably, the OER activity of the Fe-InOOH electrodes is superior to the other four electrodes, Fe-InOOH NPs only needs overpotential of 220

**Figure 2.** (a) Overall XPS spectra of Fe-InOOH NPs, (b) In 3d spectra, (c) Fe 2p spectra, (d) O 1s spectra for the Fe-InOOH NPs.

mV to afford 10 mA cm−2 . This improvement may attribute to the optimized electronic structure after the incorporation of Fe element. And the previous studies demonstrated that the introduction of Fe into the host nanostructured material can promote the formation and stabilization of the catalytically active sites, leading to superior OER performance.[43] In order to explore the OER performance under real conditions, the comparisons of OER performances of Fe-InOOH, FeOOH, InOOH and NF without iR compensation were shown in Figure S3. The catalytic performance of Fe-InOOH, is much better than others, indicating an excellent intrinsic activity towards OER, which is consistent with Figure 3a. And the same catalytic behavior was shown in LSV of the mentioned catalysts on the Cu foam (Figure S4). To get insight into the oxygen evolution reaction kinetics of the catalysts, the Tafel slope, which can be evaluated to reveals its electron transport in the electrocatalytic process, were calculated. Figure 3c displays the Tafel plots of the different composite electrodes, the Fe-InOOH exhibits a value of 44.23 mV dec−1 , which is much smaller than that of InOOH and FeOOH, indicating excellent OER reaction kinetics. The lowest Tafel slope value indicates that the kinetics of Fe-InOOH is improved after Fe doping, demonstrating the intrinsic outstanding OER activity. Furthermore, we performed electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analysis of the catalysts to investigate the charge transfer resistances (Rct) during electrochemical reaction which can indicate the charge transfer between the catalyst and

electrolyte. As shown in Figure 3d, the Rct of Fe-InOOH catalyst is distinctly lower than other catalysts in this test, which reveals its efficient electron transport and outstanding kinetically controlled reaction in the electrocatalytic process for OER. The doping of iron is a plausible reason for its smaller charge transfer resistance, and the experimental result agree well with the above OER performance. InOOH nanocrystals with the appropriate Fe doping content induces synergetic effect between In and Fe, thereby elevating the electronic conductivity and leading to the enhancement of OER intrinsic activity.

In addition, the Fe-InOOH catalyst with small particle size has a high specific surface and can provide more active sites to catalyze the oxygen evolution reaction. Thus, we calculated the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) by measuring double layer capacitance (Cdl) using a simple cyclic voltammetry (CV) method. which is presented in Figure S5. [46] As expected, the Cdl (Figure 3e) value of the Fe-InOOH catalysts is as large as 5.8 mF cm−2 , which is nearly 2 times than that of the pure InOOH nanoparticles (3.65 mF cm−2 ). The Fe-InOOH catalyst has a larger electrochemically active surface area and can provide more active sites exposed to the electrolyte, which is compatible with the aboved-mentioned results. Besides, we further normalized current density by the ECSA and the ECSA is evaluated by Cdl in terms of the equation: ECSA = Cdl / Cs. [47] Figure 3f present the normalized OER LSV curves of Fe-InOOH,

**Figure 3.** (a) OER polarization curves of different electrodes in 1 M KOH electrolyte with 90% iR compensation. (b) OER overpotentials of the related electrocatalysts. (c) The relevant Tafel plots of the catalysts. (d) Nyquist plots of different electrocatalysts. (e) Cdl values of related electrocatalysts. (f) Normalized OER LSV curves of Fe-InOOH, FeOOH and InOOH by ECSAs.

FeOOH and InOOH by ECSA, the normalized activity of Fe-InOOH catalyst still shows much higher than that of InOOH, indicating that the factors other than the ECSA also related to the enhanced OER activity, which can attribute to the strategy of Fe doping enhances the intrinsic activity toward OER not just increases the active surface area. To probe and compare the intrinsic activity of Fe-InOOH with other electrodes, the turnover frequency (TOF) for each active site of Fe-InOOH, InOOH and FeOOH were measured at 50 mV s-1 in 1.0 M solution PBS (pH = 7.0), as shown in (Figure S8). [48] The TOF value (Table S2) of Fe-InOOH is calculated to be 0.6485 s−1 and 6.73 s−1 at η of 220 mV and 266 mV, respectively, which is higher than other sample for reference. The results demonstrated the heightened intrinsic activity of per active site, which can be attributed to the modification of Fe in the InOOH composite. The OER performance of different metal doped InOOH catalysts were also investigated and the results show that Fe doped InOOH exhibits the best OER performance (Figure S6). Additionally, the OER activities of Fe-doped InOOH nanoparticles electrodes are notably influenced by the content of Fe dopant, with best activity at the doping content of 10% (Figure S7). The result indicates a suitable Fe content can significantly improves the performance of OER. In fact, as illustrated in Figure 4c, Fe-InOOH NPs are parallel or even superior to most of the Fe incorporated or Fe based electrocatalysts (Table S3). Above results showed that the doping of Fe boosted the intrinsic OER catalytic activity effectively. It was speculated that doped Fe could act as the active site to modulate the electronic structure of InOOH, could improve

conductivity by decreasing the charge transfer resistance resulting in a faster reaction kinetics, thereby finally contribute a lot to the enhanced catalytic activity. The detailed synergistic mechanism was still not clear and need to be further investigated.[49-51]

Only with remarkable catalytic performance and superior stability at the same time can the catalyst be used for OER in large-scale commercial applications. Therefore, a long-time chronopotentiometry test was recorded for 27 hours to estimate the stability of Fe-InOOH toward oxygen evolution reaction. Figure 4a shows the chronopotentiometric curves for Fe-InOOH at a constant current density of 10 mA cm-2 , Fe-InOOH exhibits the excellent durability with a very negligible shift in potential after 27 hours of continuous operation, proving the satisfactory stability. The illustration in Figure 4b exhibits the comparison of the LSVs before and after the chronopotentiometric test. The OER polarization curve of Fe-InOOH almost overlaps the original after the stability test. In addition, after long-term stability test, the Fe-InOOH catalyst was recovered and characterized by TEM analyses. TEM image (Figure S2) shows that the monodispersed nanoparticles morphology was reasonable preserved, implying the good stability of the Fe-InOOH NPs for OER in basic media. The XPS test (Figure S9, Supporting Information) shows a negligible change in Fe-InOOH after OER catalysis. The XPS spectra indicate that In 3d, Fe 2p, and O 1s still show their characteristic peaks in the Fe-InOOH after stability test, further suggesting the good stability of Fe-InOOH for the OER. All above results together illustrate the

**Figure 4.** (a) Chronoamperometric measurement of the OER at current density of 10 mA cm−2 . (b) OER polarization curves of Fe-InOOH electrode before and after stability test. (c) Tafel slopes and overpotentials of Fe-InOOH compared with other Fe based electrocatalysts, marked by red pentagrams.

performance and structural stability of Fe-InOOH NPs which is vital for practical applications.

Combining aforementioned electrochemical characterizations and analysis results, we can conclude that well monodispersed Fe-doped InOOH NPs with outstanding OER performance as well as long-term stability were successfully manufactured. The outstanding OER performance can be mainly attributed to the following synergistic effects: (i) via a two-phase colloidal method where the presence of oleylamine as a capping ligand can produce confinement effect to achieve morphologycontrolled, the unique monodispersed nanoparticles not only offers a high active surface area but also enhances the surface activity, accelerating the penetration of electrolyte, (ii) the Fe doping can generate a synergistic effect between In and Fe, and affect the surface chemical environment, thereby conducing to increase the OER catalytic activity, (iii) the doping of heteroatoms modifies the electronic structure of InOOH, improves the conductivity of electrocatalysts, which promotes charge transfer between reaction sites and intermediates and thus accelerates OER processes.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we reported well monodispersed Fe-doping InOOH nanoparticles with efficient OER performance as well as long-term stability in alkaline media for the first time. The electrochemical measurements show that when the molar ratio of Fe to In is 1:10, the Fe-InOOH catalyst shows the perfect OER activity and only need overpotentials of 220 mV and 266 mV to drive 10 and 100 mA cm−2 in 1.0 M KOH, respectively, which is significantly lower than other catalysts prepared in this work. In addition, the Fe-InOOH catalyst has a small Tafel slope of 44.23 mV dec-1 and excellent durability as well, and even after a 27-hour stability test, its current density still remains above 90% of the

initial value. This high performance can be ascribed primarily to the unique monodispersed structure, incorporation of Fe doping and the synergistic effect between In and Fe. All of above favorable conditions enable well monodispersed Fe-InOOH NPs to be a potential candidate for efficient water decomposition and provide further avenues to other energy conversions.

### **Experimental Section**

### **Materials**

Fe(NO3)3·9H2O, In(NO3)3·4.5H2O, Co(NO3)2·6H2O, Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, AgNO3, Zn(NO3)2·6H2O, Na2MoO4·2H2O, OAm (oleylamine), ODE (1 octadecene), Nafion (5 wt.%), cyclohexane and IrO<sup>2</sup> powder were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. CH3CH2OH, KOH and the other reagents were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. All reagents were used without further purification. Deionized water used in the experiment was purified with the GWA-UN1-F20 system (Beijing Purkinje General Instrument Co., Ltd.) with a resistivity > 18 MΩ·cm.

#### **Preparation of InOOH NPs**

Typically, 1.5 mmol Na2MoO4·2H2O dissolved in 10 mL of deionized water to form water phase solution. Meanwhile, the milky solution was prepared by dissolving 1 mmol In(NO3)3·4.5H2O in 5 mL OAm and 10 mL ODE oil solvent with continuous magnetic stirring for 30 min at 65 °C. Then, mix the water phase solution and milky solution, and transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined autoclave, sealed and heated at 180 °C in an oven for 24 h. After the reaction completed, the Teflon-lined autoclave was quenched with cold water to room temperature. After being washed off with cyclohexane and ethanol for several times, the sample was collected and dispersed the in 10 ml cyclohexane.

### **Preparation of Fe-InOOH NPs**

Taking the preparation of 10% Fe-InOOH NPs as an example. Firstly, dispersed the prepared indium oxyhydroxide in 10 ml cyclohexane. Secondly, 0.1 mmol Fe(NO3)3·9H2O was added to the mixture of OAm (5 mL) and ODE (10 mL) with continuous magnetic stirring for 30 min at 65 °C and sonicating for 5 min, then a red-brown solution was formed in the reaction cell. Thirdly, the obtained cyclohexane dispersion dissolved in brown-red solution and subsequently transferred into autoclave for solvothermal reaction at 180 °C for 2 h. The obtained product was collected by centrifugation and washed several times with cyclohexane and ethanol, and freeze-dried in a vacuum freeze drier for a night. Ag/Co/Ni/Zn-InOOH NPs was synthesized with the same method of Fe-InOOH NPs.

### **Preparation of FeOOH**

3.6 mmol of FeCl3·6H2O, 19.8 mmol of NaCl and 70 mL of deionized water were mixed to form 70 mL of aqueous solution. Then, the as-obtained solution was transferred into a 100 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave, sealed and heated at 120 °C for 12h. After being quenched with cold water, the Teflon-lined autoclave cooled to room temperature. The product was then washed several times with deionized water and ethanol, and freeze-dried in a vacuum freeze drier for a night.

### **Material Characterization**

The powder X-ray diffraction patterns were acquired on a Bruker D8 Advance X-ray diffractometer with Cu Kα radiation with a scan rate of 5°per minute in the 2θ range of 10°–70°. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) characterizations were carried out on a JEM 1200 TEM microscope functioning at 100 kV. HRTEM measurements were performed utilizing an

FEI Tecnai G2 F20 field emission electron microscope. XPS measurements were carried out on a Thermo ESCALAB 250XI X-ray photoelectron spectrometer use an Al excitation source with an excitation source of 180 W. ICP-OES analysis was conducted on an Agilent 5110 instrument.

#### **Electrochemical Characterization**

All the OER electrochemical tests were performed at room temperature with a CHI760E electrochemical workstation (ChenHua Instruments, Shanghai, China) in a standard three-electrode system. The working electrode was prepared as follows: Mixed and sonicated as-prepared catalyst (10 mg), ethanol (490 μL), cyclohexane (490 μL) and Nafion solution (20 wt.%, 20 μL) to form relatively homogeneous suspension, then 300 μL of the suspension was transferred onto the nickel foam, which was ultrasonically washed by hydrochloric acid and ethanol in advance. Next, dried at 60℃ for 6 h. The Hg/HgO electrode and platinum were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively, in a 1.0 M KOH electrolyte. All the potentials tested in this study were converted to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale using the calibration equation: E (RHE) = E (Hg/HgO) + 0.098 V + 0.059 ×pH, and the OER polarization curves were collected at a scan rate of 3 mV s -1 and corrected with 90% iR compensation. Under the open circuit voltage of OER, the EIS test was performed in the frequency range of 10 kHz to 0.1Hz.

### **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant 21301187) and Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province, China (Grant ZR2018QB001).

**Keywords:** monodispersed nanoparticles • InOOH • Fe doping • oxygen evolution reaction • transition metal hydroxides

- [1] Y. Liang, H. Wang, P. Diao, W. Chang, G. Hong, Y. Li, M. Gong, L. Xie, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Z. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 15849.
- [2] H. Xu, S. Ci, Y. Ding, G. Wang, Z. Wen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 8006.
- [3] Z. Fang, L. Peng, Y. Qian, X. Zhang, Y. Xie, J. J. Cha, G. Yu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 5241.
- [4] F. Lyu, Q. Wang, S. M. Choi, Y. Yin, *Small* **2019**, *15,* 1804201.
- [5] J. S. Kim, B. Kim, H. Kim, K. Kang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018***, 8,* 1702774.
- [6] M.-I. Jamesh, X. Sun, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *400*, 31.
- [7] L. Yang, R. Liu, L. Jiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30,* 1909618.
- [8] Y. Chen, C. Dong, J. Zhang, C. Zhang, Z. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 8430.
- [9] C. Guan, W. Xiao, H. Wu, X. Liu, W. Zang, H. Zhang, J. Ding, Y. P. Feng, S. J. Pennycook, J. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *48*, 73.
- [10] T. Gao, Z. Jin, M. Liao, J. Xiao, H. Yuan, D. Xiao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 17763.
- [11] M. B. Stevens, C. D. M. Trang, L. J. Enman, J. Deng, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 11361.
- [12] Biswarup Chakraborty, Rodrigo Beltrán-Suito, J. Niklas Hausmann, Somenath Garai, Matthias Driess, and Prashanth W. Menezes, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, 2001377.
- [13] J. G. Baker, J. R. Schneider, J. A. G. Torres, J. A. Singh, A. J. M. Mackus, M. Bajdich, S. F. Bent, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 3488.
- [14] Q. Zhang, C. Zhang, J. Liang, P. Yin, Y. Tian, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5*, 3808.
- [15] H. Shi, H. Liang, F. Ming, Z. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 573.
- [16] L. Song, C. Chen, S. Zhang, Q. Wei, *Catal. Commun.* **2011**, *12*, 1051.
- [17] S. Ge, B. Wang, J. Lin, L. Zhang, *Crystengcomm* **2013**, *15*, 721.
- [18] J. Huang, J. Chen, T. Yao, J. He, S. Jiang, Z. Sun, Q. Liu, W. Cheng, F. Hu, Y. Jiang, Z. Pan, S. Wei, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 8722.
- [19] Z. Xie, H. Tang, Y. Wang, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 1206.

- [20] Y. Zhou, H. C. Zeng, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 5953.
- [21] J. Zhang, R. Cui, C. Gao, L. Bian, Y. Pu, X. Zhu, X. a. Li, W. Huang, *Small* **2019**, *15,* 1904688.
- [22] C. Du, Y. Men, X. Hei, J. Yu, G. Cheng, W. Luo, *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 2564.
- [23] N. Cheng, Q. Liu, A. M. Asiri, W. Xing, X. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 23207.
- [24] J. Masud, S. Umapathi, N. Ashokaan, M. Nath, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 9750.
- [25] Chao Feng, M. Bilal Faheem, Jie Fu, Yequan Xiao, Changli Li, Yanbo Li, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 4019-4047.
- [26] H. Fan, H. Yu, Y. Zhang, Y. Zheng, Y. Luo, Z. Dai, B. Li, Y. Zong, Q. Yan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 12566.
- [27] K. Fominykh, P. Chernev, I. Zaharieva, J. Sicklinger, G. Stefanic, M. Doeblinger, A. Mueller, A. Pokharel, S. Boecklein, C. Scheu, T. Bein, D. Fattakhova-Rohlfing, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, 5180.
- [28] S. Peng, F. Gong, L. Li, D. Yu, D. Ji, T. Zhang, Z. Hu, Z. Zhang, S. Chou, Y. Du, S. Ramakrishna, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 13644.
- [29] Shenglai Yao, Viktoria Forstner, Prashanth W. Menezes, Chakadola Panda, Stefan Mebs, Eva M. Zolnhofer, Matthias E. Miehlich, Tibor Szilvási, Nanjundan Ashok Kumar, Michael Haumann, Karsten Meyer, Hansjörg Grützmacher and Matthias Driess, *Chem. Sci.* **2018**, *9*, 8590.
- [30] C. Dong, T. Kou, H. Gao, Z. Peng, Z. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8,* 1701347.
- [31] Y. Teng, X.-D. Wang, J.-F. Liao, W.-G. Li, H.-Y. Chen, Y.-J. Dong, D.-B. Kuang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28,* 1802463.
- [32] Y. Zhang, J. Xu, L. Lv, A. Wang, B. Zhang, Y. Ding, C. Wang, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 10196–10204.
- [33] L. Xie, R. Tong, W. Zhang, D. Wang, T. Liu, Q. Li, X. Peng, X. Wang, *Energy Technol.* **2019**, *7,* 1801053.
- [34] T. Gao, Z. Jin, M. Liao, J. Xiao, H. Yuan, D. Xiao, J *J. Mater. Chem. A*
- **2015**, *3*, 17763. [35] Y. Liu, J. Li, F. Li, W. Li, H. Yang, X. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Ma, *J. Mater. Chem.*
- *A* **2016**, *4*, 4472. [36] L. Yang, Z. Guo, J. Huang, Y. Xi, R. Gao, G. Su, W. Wang, L. Cao, B.
- Dong, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29,* 1704574.
- [37] X. Wang, W. Zhang, J. Zhang, Z. Wu, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 4550. [38] Y. Dong, J. Yang, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, Z. Dong, M. Cui, M. Li, X. Yuan, X.

Zhang, X. Dai, *Dalton Trans.* **2020**, *49*, 6355–6362.

- [39] J. Han, J. Zhang, T. Wang, Q. Xiong, W. Wang, L. Cao, B. Dong, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 13105.
- [40] M. Yang, X. Fu, M. Shao, Z. Wang, L. Cao, S. Gu, M. Li, H. Cheng, Y. Li, H. Pan, Z. Lu, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 2050.
- [41] R. Wu, B. Xiao, Q. Gao, Y.-R. Zheng, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, M.-R. Gao, S.-H. Yu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 15445.
- [42] M. S. Burke, M. G. Kast, L. Trotochaud, A. M. Smith, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 3638.
- [43] S. Niu, W.-J. Jiang, Z. Wei, T. Tang, J. Ma, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7005.
- [44] J.-X. Feng, S.-H. Ye, H. Xu, Y.-X. Tong, G.-R. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 4698.
- [45] C. Mahala, M. D. Sharma, M. Basu, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 3488.
- [46] T. Ling, T. Zhang, B. Ge, L. Han, L. Zheng, F. Lin, Z. Xu, W.-B. Hu, X.- W. Du, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31,* 1807771.
- [47] S. Umapathi, J. Masud, A. T. Swesi, M. Nath, *Adv. Sustainable Syst.* **2017**, *1,* 1700086.
- [48] N. Zhang, Y. Gao, Y. Mei, J. Liu, W. Song, Y. Yu, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2019**, *6*, 293.
- [49] Michaela S. Burke, Matthew G. Kast, Lena Trotochaud, Adam M. Smith, and Shannon W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc*. **2015**, *137*, 3638−3648.
- [50] Yuanjun Liu, Xulan Xie, Guoxing Zhu, Yu Mao, Yinan Yu, Suxiao Ju, Xiaoping Shen and Huan Pang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*,15851.
- [51] Yuan Teng, Xu-Dong Wang, Jin-Feng Liao, Wen-Guang Li, Hong Chen, Yu-Jie Dong, and Dai-Bin Kuang, *Adv. Funct. Mater*. **2018**, *28*, 1802463.

## **Entry for the Table of Contents**

Insert graphic for Table of Contents here.