---
source: Yang 等 - 2015 - In Situ Tetraethoxysilane‐Templated Porous Ba0.5 Sr0.5 Co0.8 Fesub.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 11.172s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:20:26.285591Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/celc.201402279

## In Situ Tetraethoxysilane-Templated Porous $Ba_{0.5}Sr_{0.5}Co_{0.8}Fe_{0.2}O_{3-\delta}$ Perovskite for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction

Yisu Yang, Wei Zhou,\* Ruochen Liu, Mengran Li, Thomas E. Rufford, and Zhonghua Zhu\*[a]

The perovskite  $Ba_{0.5}Sr_{0.5}Co_{0.8}Fe_{0.2}O_{3-\delta}$  (BSCF) is one of the best catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), which is critical to many energy-storage applications. However, the catalytic activity of BSCF perovskites is constrained by a low specific surface area (0.5 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>). We report here, for the first time, a facile, in situ template method using tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) to synthesize porous BSCF with surface areas of up to 32.1 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>, which to our knowledge is the highest reported surface area in a BSCF perovskite, and with excellent catalytic activity for the OER. For example, the BCSF prepared using a TEOS-to-BSCF ratio of 3.4 exhibited up to 35.2 Ag<sup>-1</sup> at 1.63 V versus a reversible hydrogen electrode (overpotential,  $\eta$  = 0.4 V) and this current is 5.3 times that exhibited by nonporous BSCF (6.6 A g<sup>-1</sup>). The high activity of the porous BCSF is attributed to the additional catalytic surface sites available in the pores created by the in situ TEOS-template method. The general application of this technique to produce porous perovskites is demonstrated in the synthesis of a second example, porous LaMnO<sub>3</sub>.

The generation of hydrogen by electrochemical water splitting is a potential route to store energy from intermittent renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind. [1] However, the development of efficient and cost-effective water-splitting technologies is limited by the kinetics of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER;  $4OH^- \rightarrow O_2 + 2H_2O + 4e^-$  in alkali or  $2H_2O \rightarrow O_2 +$ 4H<sup>+</sup> + 4e<sup>-</sup> in acid), which can be slow even when state-of-theart precious metal catalysts such as iridium oxide (IrO<sub>2</sub>) and ruthenium oxide (RuO<sub>2</sub>) are applied.<sup>[1b]</sup> A potential alternative class of low-cost catalysts to the precious metal oxide catalysts is ABO<sub>3</sub> perovskites, which are composed of an alkali or a rare earth metal (A) with a transition metal or metals (B) and show promise as lower cost alternatives, [2] of these materials Ba<sub>0.5</sub>Sr<sub>0.5</sub>Co<sub>0.8</sub>Fe<sub>0.2</sub>O<sub>3...δ</sub> perovskite (BSCF) has been reported to have one of the highest intrinsic OER activities, due to an optimal e<sub>q</sub> orbital filling, which is close to unity.<sup>[2a]</sup> To realize the full advantage of the intrinsic OER activity of BSCF, it is desirable to maximize the surface area to mass ratio of the catalyst.

[a] Y. Yang, Dr. W. Zhou, R. Liu, M. Li, Dr. T. E. Rufford, Prof. Z. Zhu School of Chemical Engineering, The University of Queensland St. Lucia, Queensland 4072 (Australia) Fax: (+)61 733654199

E-mail: wei.zhou@ua.edu.au z.zhu@uq.edu.au

Supporting Information for this article is available on the WWW under http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201402279.

BSCF can be enhanced fivefold by preparation of high specific surface area perovskites by using an in-situ silica sol-gel template method.

We demonstrate here that the mass-normalized OER activity of

The conventional approach used in catalysis to increase the specific surface area (SSA) of an active phase is to prepare nanoparticles, either supported on an inert structure, such as porous alumina, or in a colloidal suspension. Lee et al.[1b] reported such an approach for the preparation of rutile IrO2 and rutile RuO<sub>2</sub> nanocatalysts. Recently, BaTiO<sub>3</sub>-type perovskite nanocrystals have been successfully synthesized at low temperature using the vapor diffusion sol-gel method by Brutchey et al.[3] However, the nanoparticle approach is less suitable for the preparation of perovskites, as the high temperatures (approximately 900 °C for BSCF) required to calcine the perovskite can sinter the nanoparticles and result in low SSAs. Instead many researchers have investigated hard templating methods as a means to produce porous perovskites.[4] For example, Zhao et al. prepared three dimensional  $La_xSr_{1-x}FeO_{3-\delta}$  with poly(methylmethacrylate) (PMMA) microspheres, [5] Sadakane et al. prepared porous  $La_xSr_{1-x}FeO_{3-\delta}$  catalysts with colloidal polystyrene microspheres, [6] and Jiang et al. [7] and Lanfield et al.[4] each prepared strontium-based perovskites with cellulose-derived templates. A summary of porous perovskites prepared from templating methods is provided in Table S1 in the Supporting Information. One of the highest surface area perovskites reported in the literature is a partly ordered mesoporous LaFe<sub>0.4</sub>Co<sub>0.6</sub>O<sub>3</sub> catalyst with a SSA of 163 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>; this was synthesized by Wang et al. using the mesoporous silica KIT-6 as a template. [8] We attempted to follow the approach of Wang et al. to prepare BSCF perovskite by using a commercial mesoporous silica (Davisil Grade 643), but found the large grain size of the mesoporous silica hindered the formation of a crystalline BSCF phase (Figure S1). Furthermore, the multistage preparation process for mesoporous silica templates is itself an expensive operation, and thus, a porous perovskite produced by this method is unlikely to be cost effective.

In this study, our approach was the direct hydrolysis of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS), as a template particle, concurrently and in situ with the BSCF precursor solution to form a homogenous sol. Scheme 1 illustrates the synthesis procedure and the experimental details are provided in the Supporting Information. The TEOS+BSCF precursor gel was combusted at 260 °C then calcined at 900 °C, after which the solid was soaked in 2 м NaOH for 24 h to dissolve the silica impurities and leave a porous BSCF perovskite with a hierarchical pore structure. The effect of the silica on BSCF properties was investigated by

Scheme 1. Schematic illustration of the synthesis of porous Ba0.5Sr0.5Co0.8Fe0.2O3<sup>d</sup> perovskite (BSCF) by using a one-pot TEOS-template method.

varying the TEOS to BSCF precursor ratio and comparing the results of the in situ TEOS-template method to results obtained with preformed silica nanoparticles and preformed mesoporous silica (see Figure S1). The key difference between our in situ templating approach and the conventional methods using preformed hard template is that the mixture of TEOS+BCSF precursor solutions allows the formation of reactive nanosized silica species[9] that can either react with other species to form impurities, such as Sr2CoSi2O7 (see Figure S2) as observed by Porras-Vazquez and Slater in BSCF doping studies,[10] or precipitate as amorphous silica phases.[11] The Si-doped impurities are partly removed by washing with NaOH to leave voids in the BSCF perovskite structure.

The almost complete removal of the silica phase from the BSCF is evidenced by the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns in Figure 1, which show a BSCF peak around 2q=31.78, and in Table 1 by the low concentrations of Si measured by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS). The residual silica concentration increased with the TEOS-to-BSCF ratio up to 2.3% at. Si. Also, the XRD peak for BSCF shifts towards 2q=31.98 for higher TEOS and residual silica concentrations, and this shift may indicate a contraction of the BSCF lattice structure when doped with Si ions.[11] The structures and lattice parameters were further determined by Le Bail fitting of XRD patterns (Table S2). It was found that the porous BSCF samples maintained the cubic Pm3m crystal structure of the pristine BSCF perovskite. The slight decrease in the lattice parameters might stem from trace

Figure 1. XRD patterns of porous BSCF perovskites prepared with different TEOS-to-BSCF ratios: a) 2q from 10–908 and b) 2q from 30–348.

Table 1. Elemental composition of BSCF perovskites determined by EDS, and SSA calculated with the Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) equation from N2 isotherms measured at 77 K. Catalyst Atomic ratio of elements [% at.] SSA [m2g-1 Si Ba Sr Co Fe O BSCF 0 13.2 10.2 21.4 5.2 50.0 0.5 BSCF-X1 1.3 11.9 10.0 21.2 4.9 50.7 8.6 BSCF-X2 1.6 11.4 9.6 21.4 5.3 50.8 10.3 BSCF-X3 1.8 10.9 9.5 21.5 5.4 50.9 21.4 BSCF-X3.4 2.1 10.3 9.6 21.6 5.3 51.1 32.1 BSCF-X4 2.3 10.5 9.5 21.4 5.2 51.1 16.8 BSCF-X5 2.4 10.4 9.0 21.6 5.3 51.2 13.0

of Si ions doped into the perovskite lattice (<0.5%).This also indicated that most Si in the samples existed as residual impurities. Therefore, the insignificant changes in the structure of the porous BSCF catalysts might have but a minor effect on the electrocatalytic performance. In the expanded XRD patterns, (Figure 1 b) a minor peak around 2q=31.48 is observed and this peak is attributed to the small quantities of Si impurities that were not removed by NaOH.

The data in Table 1 shows the concentration of residual silica increased with the amount of TEOS used in the synthesis. Incorporation of an insoluble nonbarium containing phase, such as Sr2CoSi2O7, in the BSCF perovskite would leave an excess of Ba ions in the synthesis system that were more readily washed away by NaOH, thus leaving a lower final Ba concentration in the perovskite. (the concentrations of Sr, Co, Fe, and O did not change significantly.) We checked the effect of the NaOH wash on the BSCF elemental composition by washing a nonporous BSCF sample in 2m NaOH and observed that the Ba content dropped from 13.2 to 12.6% at. This treatment created an amorphous layer on the perovskite surface but did not alter the porous structure significantly. The differences in elemental compositions, together with the feature at 2q=31.48 in the XRD patterns, indicate that the relative concentration of TEOS in the gel with BSCF precursor affects the type of silica species formed in the calcined product; that is, the formation of insoluble silica compounds is favored at higher TEOS concentrations. The trend in the SSA with TEOS concentration in Table 1, highlights that the removal of the soluble Si phase is a key to

Figure 2. SEM and TEM images of porous and nonporous BSCF perovskite. SEM: a) BSCF, b) BSCF-X3.4. TEM: c) BSCF, d–f) BSCF-X3.4 at different magnification.

the development of porosity in the BSCF perovskite. This hypothesis is confirmed in the SEM and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure 2), which show segregated microdomains left after the leaching of the amorphous Si from the perovskite BSCF-X3.4. Figure 2 e clearly shows the intracrystalline pores in BSCF-X3.4. The lattice parameter <sup>a</sup> 0.28 p2<sup>=</sup> 0.3959 nm could be determined from Figure 2 f, and is in excellent agreement with the reported unit cell parameters for the cubic BSCF perovskite unit cell.[12]

Representative N2 sorption isotherms measured at 77 K on the BSCF perovskites are shown in Figure 3 a; isotherms for the other porous BSCFs are included in the Supporting Information. The surface area of 32.1 m2g-<sup>1</sup> obtained for BSCF-X3.4 is an increase in surface area of more than 60 times that of nonporous BSCF. The conventionally prepared BSCF exhibits a Type II isotherm typical of nonporous materials. In contrast, the BSCFs prepared by the in situ TEOS-templating method show a sharp increase in N2 uptake at low relative pressures (P/P0<0.1), which is attributed to micropores less than 2 nm wide, plus a continued increase in N2 adsorption across the measured pressure range. This second feature in the porous BSCF isotherms indicates a broad distribution of widths in mesopores and macropores [including interstitial voids between BSCF particles as seen in the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image in Figure 2]. The volume of pores with widths up to 2 nm does not vary significantly with the TEOS-to-BSCF ratio; these pores are intracrystalline pores (Figure 3 b). The volume of the mesopores in the size range 3–10 nm replicates the volume that was occupied by NaOH soluble silica impurities before alkaline treatment, and the volume of pores in this size range is maximal in the perovskite prepared with a TEOS-

Figure 3. a) Representative N2-sorption isotherms on BSCF pervoskites measured at 77 K and b) pore-size distributions calculated with a density functional theory algorithm. Isotherms of the other BSCFs are included in the Supporting Information.

to-BSCF ratio of 3.4 (BSCF-X3.4). The drop in SSAs and mesopore volumes for BSCF-X4 and BSCF-X5 is consistent with the trend observed in the XRD and EDS data, which shows the concentration of the insoluble silica phase increased at the expense of the amorphous phase, for TEOS ratios greater than 3.4. To demonstrate the in situ TEOS-templating method can be employed to synthesize other types of porous perovskites we prepared a porous LaMnO3 perovskite, which is a material that has been extensively studied as an air electrode.[13] By using our in situ TEOS-templating method we were able to increase the surface area of LaMnO3 from 14.6 to 21.0 m2g-1 (Figure S5).

The enhancement of mass-normalized OER activity achieved with porous BSCF perovskites was evaluated in an O2-saturated 0.1m KOH solution at 1600 rpm (Figures 4 a and S6). The slopes of the Tefal curves decreased from 86 to 62 mV dec-1 (Figure 4 b) and, as expected, the OER current density increased with the SSA of the BSCF electrodes (Figure 4 c). At 1.63 V versus a reversible hydrogen electrode [RHE; overpotential (h) of 0.4 V], the perovskite BSCF-3.4 with a SSA of 32.1 m2g-<sup>1</sup> exhibited the highest OER current density of 35.2 A g-1 , which is 5.3 times that of the nonporous BSCF (6.6 A g-1 ). Notably, the 5.3 fold increase in OER activity achieved in this study was even larger than the 2–3 fold increases achieved by Jung et al. with La-doping of pervoskites.[2b] The

Figure 4. (a) Representative OER current densities of glassy carbon (GC)-supported thin-film porous BSCF electrocatalysts at 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH at 10 mV s-1 . (b) OER mass activities for thin-film porous electrocatalysts. OER activities of the other BSCFs are included in the Supporting Information. (c) OER current densities of GC-supported thin-film porous BSCF electrocatalysts versus SSA at 1600 rpm in O2-saturated 0.1m KOH at 10 mV s-<sup>1</sup> (h=0.4 V).

results for BSCF-X1.0 with a SSA of 8.6 m2g-<sup>1</sup> (Figure 4 c) highlight that silica-containing impurities introduced in the template synthesis method can have a negative effect on catalytic performance, as these impurities may reduce the conductivity of the electrodes. This implies the electrocatalytic performance is closely related to microstructural properties of the catalyst. Ongoing studies in our laboratory seek to fully understand the mechanisms for improved catalytic performance in the porous BSCF perovskites and to optimize the synthesis procedure to reduce residual concentrations of Si-doped impurities.

We developed a novel in situ TEOS-templating method to prepare porous BSCF perovskites with hierarchical pore structures SSAs of 8.6–32.1 m2g-1 . The TEOS formed amorphous silica nanoparticles in a homogenous gel with the BSCF precursor and, when the silica was removed from the calcined BSCF, this template left 3–10 nm wide mesopores in the perovskite. The highest surface area BSCF exhibited a mass-normalized OER activity 5.3 times greater than the nonporous BSCF prepared by conventional synthesis. The mass-normalized activities of the porous BSCFs reported here are comparable with the most active precious metal oxide catalysts reported in the literature (e.g. IrO2, Ru2) [1b] and could form the basis of a lowcost, efficient energy-storage technology.

## Acknowledgements

This research was funded by an Australian Research Council Discovery Project. Y.Y. acknowledges financial support from University of Queensland (UQ) International Postgraduate Scholarships. The authors acknowledge the facilities, scientific and technical assistance of the Australian Microscopy and Microanalysis Research Facility at the UQ Centre for Microscopy and Microanalysis.

Keywords: electrocatalysts · heterogeneous catalysis · oxygen evolution reaction · porous perovskite · template synthesis

- [1] a) A. Grimaud, K. J. May, C. E. Carlton, Y. L. Lee, M. Risch, W. T. Hong, J. G. Zhou, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat. Commun. 2013, 4, 2439; b) Y. Lee, J. Suntivich, K. J. May, E. E. Perry, Y. Shao-Horn, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2012, 3, 399 – 404.
- [2] a) J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, [Science](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1212858) 2011, 334[, 1383 – 1385](http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.1212858); b) J. I. Jung, H. Y. Jeong, J. S. Lee, M. G. Kim, J. Cho, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.201311223) 2014, 53, 4582 – 4586; [Angew.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201311223) Chem. 2014, 126[, 4670 – 4674](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.201311223); c) W. Zhou, J. Sunarso, [J. Phys. Chem. Lett.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jz401169n) 2013, 4[, 2982 – 2988](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jz401169n); d) W. G. Hardin, J. T. Mefford, D. A. Slanac, B. B. Patel, X. Q. Wang, S. Dai, X. Zhao, R. S. Ruoff, K. P. Johnston, K. J. Stevenson, [Chem. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm403785q) 2014, 26, 3368 – 3376.
- [3] a) F. A. Rabuffetti, J. S. Lee, R. L. Brutchey, [Chem. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm301754z) 2012, 24, 3114 [3116](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm301754z); b) S. P. Culver, V. Stepanov, M. Mecklenburg, S. Takahashi, R. L. Brutchey, [Chem. Commun.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3cc49575b) 2014, 50, 3480 – 3483.
- [4] K. Langfeld, R. Marschner, B. Frank, R. Schomacker, [ChemCatChem](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201100033) 2011, 3[, 1354 – 1358.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cctc.201100033)
- [5] Z. X. Zhao, H. X. Dai, J. G. Deng, Y. C. Du, Y. X. Liu, L. Zhang, [Microporous](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2012.07.006) [Mesoporous Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2012.07.006) 2012, 163, 131 – 139.
- [6] M. Sadakane, T. Asanuma, J. Kubo, W. Ueda, [Chem. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm050551u) 2005, 17, [3546 – 3551](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm050551u).
- [7] S. S. Jiang, F. L. Liang, W. Zhou, Z. P. Shao, [J. Mater. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2jm33311b) 2012, 22, [16214 – 16218](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2jm33311b).
- [8] Y. X. Wang, X. Z. Cui, Y. S. Li, L. S. Chen, Z. Shu, H. R. Chen, J. L. Shi, [Dalton Trans.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3dt50151e) 2013, 42, 9448 – 9452.
- [9] C. H. Cheng, D. F. Shantz, [J. Phys. Chem. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp055124i) 2006, 110, 313 318.
- [10] J. M. Porras-Vazquez, P. R. Slater, [J. Power Sources](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2012.02.105) 2012, 209, 180 183.
- [11] Y. B. Chen, B. M. Qian, S. D. Li, Y. Jiao, M. O. Tade, Z. P. Shao, [J. Membr.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2013.08.021) Sci. [2014](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2013.08.021), 449[, 86 – 96.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.memsci.2013.08.021)
- [12] a) M. Arnold, T. M. Gesing, J. Martynczuk, A. Feldhoff, [Chem. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm801463h) 2008, 20[, 5851 – 5858](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm801463h); b) S. McIntosh, J. F. Vente, W. G. Haije, D. H. A. Blank, H. J. M. Bouwmeester, [Chem. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cm052763x) 2006, 18, 2187 – 2193.
- [13] J. H. Kuo, H. U. Anderson, D. M. Sparlin, [J. Solid State Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-4596(89)90053-4) 1989, 83, [52 – 60](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-4596(89)90053-4).

Received: August 13, 2014 Revised: September 4, 2014 Published online on && &&, 2014

## COMMUNICATIONS

Pores for thought: For the first time, a high-surface-area porous Ba0.5Sr0.5Co0.8Fe0.2O3<sup>d</sup> (BCSF) perovskite was prepared using tetraethoxysilane in a novel in situ template procedure. The porous BCSF perovskite exhibits activity for the oxygen evolution reaction that is 5.3 times the activity of conventional nonporous BCSF perovskite.

Y. Yang, W. Zhou,\* R. Liu, M. Li, T. E. Rufford, Z. Zhu\*

&& – &&

In Situ Tetraethoxysilane-Templated Porous Ba0.5Sr0.5Co0.8Fe0.2O3d Perovskite for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction