---
source: Yao 等 - 2022 - Random Occupation of Multimetal Sites in Transition Metal‐Organic Frameworks for Boosting the Oxygen.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 93.033s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:25:09.144146Z
---

www.chemeurj.org

# Random Occupation of Multimetal Sites in Transition Metal-Organic Frameworks for Boosting the Oxygen Evolution Reaction

Yuechao Yao, [a] Zhongtao Ma, [b] Yibo Dou, [a] Sung Yul Lim, [c] Jizhao Zou, [d] Eugen Stamate, [e] Jens Oluf Jensen, [b] and Wenjing Zhang\*[a]

Abstract: Developing robust oxygen evolution reaction (OER) electrocatalysts with excellent performance is essential for the conversion of renewable electricity to clean fuel. Herein, we present a facile concept for the synthesis of efficient highentropy metal-organic frameworks (HEMOFs) as electrocatalysts in a one-step solvothermal synthesis. This strategy allows control of the microstructure and corresponding lattice distortion by tuning the metal ion composition. As a result,

the OER activity was improved by optimizing the coordination environment of the metal catalytic center. The optimized Corich HEMOFs exhibited a low overpotential of 310 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, better than a RuO<sub>2</sub> catalyst tested under the same conditions. The finding of lattice distortion of the HEMOFs provides a new strategy for developing high-performance electrocatalysts for energy conversion.

#### Introduction

Employing efficient electrochemical conversion devices is highly desired for meeting the requirement for the use and storage of sustainable energy. The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is important in energy-related technologies like electrolyzers, metal-air batteries, and photoelectrochemical cells.<sup>[1]</sup> However,

- [a] Y. Yao, Dr. Y. Dou, Prof. W. Zhang Department of Environmental Engineering Technical University of Denmark Miljøvej 113, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby (Denmark) E-mail: wenz@env.dtu.dk
- [b] Z. Ma, Prof. J. O. Jensen Department of Energy Conversion and Storage Technical University of Denmark Fysikvej 310, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby (Denmark)
- [c] Dr. S. Y. Lim Department of Chemistry and Research Institute for Basic Science Kyung Hee University Seoul, 02447 (Republic of Korea)
- [d] Prof. J. Zou Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Special Functional Materials & Shenzhen Engineering Laboratory for Advance Technology of Ceramics College of Materials Science and Engineering Shenzhen University Shenzhen, Guangdong, 518060 (P. R. China)
- [e] Dr. E. Stamate National Centre for Nano Fabrication and Characterization Technical University of Denmark 2800 Kgs. Lyngby (Denmark)
- Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202104288
- © 2022 The Authors. Chemistry A European Journal published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.

the OER involves multiple proton-coupled transfer processes with high potential barriers, resulting in sluggish kinetics and high overpotential.<sup>[2]</sup> Ruthenium oxides (RuO<sub>2</sub>) and iridium oxides (IrO<sub>2</sub>) have been explored as commercial electrocatalysts for OER, especially in acidic environment, but also in alkaline.[3] However, their potential in widespread practical applications may be limited by the high cost and limited availability.[4] Typically, the OER occurs on the surface metal sites (M) during the alkaline OER process for the transition metal-based heterogeneous catalysis. The OER mechanism includes the formation of M-OH (the hydroxide anions absorbed on the metal active site), the transformation of M-OH to M-O and a further transformation of M-O to MOOH; finally, the oxygen is released, and catalysts come back to the initial state of M.<sup>[5]</sup> The binding energy of oxygen intermediates OH\*, O\* and OOH\* (\* represents the adsorbed state) on the catalyst surface has been considered the main governing parameter. [6] In particular, the two steps influenced by binding energy between reactants and catalytic surface, including the dissociation of OH\* to O\* and the formation of OOH\*, determine the OER kinetics.<sup>[7]</sup> Thus, the binding strength of oxygen intermediates to the metal surface is an excellent performance indicator of the OER process, and it can be optimized by tailoring the structure and composition of the catalyst. Despite tremendous efforts, the current OER catalysts face challenges of simultaneously meeting all industrial use requirements: high activity and stability at low cost.

Metal-organic frameworks, a class of compounds consisting of metal ions coordinated to organic ligands in periodic structures, have been widely used for oxygen evolution because of their molecular catalytic sites. <sup>[8]</sup> In particular, the isolated active metal sites, large specific surface area, and porous structure are favorable for the OER process. Most of the OER catalysts related to MOFs are derivatives of MOFs, <sup>[9]</sup> such as

Chemistry Europe

European Chemical Societies Publishing

NiCo alloys<sup>[10]</sup> and Co–N–C structures.<sup>[11]</sup> However, the MOF derived materials cannot effectively maintain their original structures. For instance, the typical calcination treatment of MOFs usually causes a loss of porous structure, lower surface area and agglomeration of the metal sites. To avoid these issues caused by a carbonization process, researchers have explored the possibilities of using MOFs directly as OER catalysts.<sup>[12]</sup> In order to optimize their intrinsic catalytic activities, strategies have been developed, including tuning electronic structure, photo-induced lattice-strain engineering,<sup>[13]</sup> metal node engineering,<sup>[8c]</sup> and lattice mismatch operation through missing linkers in MOFs.<sup>[14]</sup> Despite the efforts devoted to improving the electrocatalytic activity of MOFs and broadening the understanding of the MOFs used directly as OER catalysts, the field is far from exhausted.

Herein, we present the first proof-of-concept on the synthesis of high-entropy metal-organic frameworks (HEMOFs) with altered node properties to improve the activity or ORR. The HEMOFs with multi-metal ions, including Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, Cu and organic ligands of 2,5-thiophenedicarboxylic acid (TDC) and 4,4-bipyridine (BIPY) were synthesized according to a facile onestep solvothermal method. As shown in Figure 1, when introducing the randomly occupied multi-metal sites in MOFs, the formed high entropy state of the MOFs can cause a partial lattice distortion, which changes the surrounding coordination environment of the nodes to affect the electrocatalytic activity. As a result, an unsaturated coordination environment of the metal catalytic active center is formed, affecting the binding energy of the oxygen evolution intermediate.<sup>[15]</sup> Moreover, the electron density of metal active sites can be optimized to improve catalytic activity. The result illustrates that the lattice distortion of HEMOFs by introducing the multi-metal ions leads to improved OER activity compared to the pristine MOF with a single metal site. Furthermore, we carried out a study on the impacts of each metal in HEMOFs for OER. As a result, the Corich HEMOFs show an overpotential of 310 mV, outperforming the RuO<sub>2</sub> OER catalyst. The findings in this work pave the way for a novel facile method to synthesize HEMOFs that can be directly adopted as highly active, stable OER catalysts.

## **Experimental Section**

Chemicals CuCl $_2 \cdot 2$  H $_2$ O (>99%, AR, grade), MnCl $_2 \cdot 4$  H $_2$ O (>99%, AR, grade) and CoCl $_2 \cdot 6$  H $_2$ O (>97%, AR, grade), FeCl $_3 \cdot 6$  H $_2$ O, 2,5-thiophenedicarboxylic acid, 4,4-bipyridine and Nafion solution (5 wt%) were bought from Sigma-Aldrich. NiCl $_2 \cdot 6$  H $_2$ O (98%, AR, grade) were purchased from Alfa Aesar. KOH (99.98%) and NaOH (98%, AR, grade) were purchased from Merck KGaA. RuO $_2$  catalyst was bought from Sigma-Aldrich. All chemicals were used directly without further purification. Ultrapure water (18 M $\Omega$ ) used in the experiments was supplied by a Millipore System (Millipore Q).

Synthesis of Co-TDC-BIPY MOFs: First, thiophenedicarboxylic acid (0.85 mmol) and NaOH (0.0017 mmol) were mixed in Millipore Q water (6.33 mL). After it was dissolved, 4,4-bipyridine (1 mmol) was added into the above-mixed solution. Next, 0.5 mmol CoCl $_2$ ·  $6H_2O$  was dissolved in Millipore Q water (3.13 mL) in another beaker. Subsequently, the dissolved metal salt solution was poured into the solution of TDC and BIPY. The mixed solution was vigorously stirred for 5 min to obtain a uniform colloidal suspension of the MOF. After the reaction, the solution was centrifuged, and washed with Millipore Q water (2–3 times). Finally, the samples were dried in the freeze dryer and collected for further characterization.

Synthesis of high-entropy MOFs with equal metal components (EMC-HEMOFs) and metal-rich HEMOFs: The preparation process was the same as that of Co-TDC-BIPY MOFs, except for metal content changes. For the synthesis of EMC-HEMOFs, the atom proportions of Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, and Cu were 0.1, 0.1, 0.1, 0.1 and 0.1 mmol. For metal-rich HEMOFs, the rich metal was 0.2 mmol, and other metals 0.075 mmol. For example, for the Fe-rich HEMOFs, the iron amount was 0.2 mmol, and for Co, Ni, Mn and Cu it was 0.075 mmol. A picture of metal-rich HEMOFs can be seen in Figure S1 in the Supporting Information.

Composition and structure characterization: XRD was obtained with a Rikagu Smartlab operating at 40 kV and 40 mA with Cu<sub>k $\alpha$ </sub>

Figure 1. Modulating the metal catalytic active center coordination environment in MOFs by the introduction of multi-metal ions with various radii for efficient OFR.

Chemistry Europe

European Chemical Societies Publishing

radiation ( $\lambda$  = 1.541 Å). The transmission electron microscope (TEM) images were made by a JEOL 3000F (300 kV). SEM images were made by a Quanta FEG 250 Analytical ESEM field emission scanning electron microscope (SEM), and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping was obtained using an Oxford X-Max EDS detector. The BET specific surface area was measured by a Micromeritics Gemini 2375 specific surface area analyzer. X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) data were obtained by a Thermofisher K-alpha XPS instrument equipped with Al<sub>Kα</sub> radiation. The binding energies obtained in the XPS analysis were corrected for specimen charging by reference of C 1s to 284.8 eV. A Biologic SP300 potentiostat was used for the electrochemical characterization. The element composition was obtained using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS).

**Electrochemical measurements:** The catalyst ink was prepared using a mixture of 200 μL Milli Q water, 280 μL ethanol, 20 μL 5 wt% Nafion solution and 2 mg catalysts followed by ultrasonication for 3 h. Then, 10 μL of the ink was uniformly loaded onto the  $Al_2O_3$  polished glassy-carbon electrode (diameter = 0.5 cm, the area of glass carbon was 0.197 cm²), used as the working electrode with a catalyst loading of 0.2 mg cm². The loading mass of catalysts was obtained based on the calculation  $10 \times 2/500 = 0.04$  mg, giving the loading mass concentration of 0.04/0.197 = 0.2 mg cm², where 0.197 cm² is the loading area. The RuO₂ ink and electrode were prepared using the same recipe as mentioned above, except for the MOFs catalyst were replaced by the same mass of RuO₂.

Electrochemical tests were operated with a three-electrode configuration using a Pt foil as a counter electrode and a Hg/HgO electrode (Shanghai Yueci electronic Technology) with 1 mol L $^{-1}$  KOH filling solution as a reference electrode. Before OER tests, highpurity  $\rm O_2$  was purged into the 1 mol L $^{-1}$  KOH electrolyte for at least 15 min to saturate it with  $\rm O_2$ . The potential versus the Hg/HgO reference electrode was converted to the potential versus a reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the equation:  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm Hg/Hgo} + 0.098 + 0.059 \, \rm pH.^{[16]}$  With pH 13.78 in Figure S2,  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm Hg/Hgo} + 0.924$ .

For OER tests, before starting the capture of linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) and electrochemical surface area (ECSA) measurement, the working electrode was stabilized by potential cycling between 0.9 and 1.7 V at 25 mVs<sup>-1</sup> with respect to RHE, [12] until it showed stable cycling curves. Then plots were recorded at scan rates of 5 mVs<sup>-1</sup> in 1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH. The electrochemical surface area was obtained using CV with the scan range of 1.059-1.099 V versus RHE, various scan rates of 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The value of capacitance of double layer ( $C_{dl}$ ) was calculated from the slope of the linear relationship between the half capacitive current density  $((j_{anodic}-j_{cathodic})/2)$  at the middle of the applied potential range and the scan rates. The impedance spectra were captured under an open-circuit voltage in the frequency range from 10<sup>5</sup> Hz to 5 mHz under an amplitude of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. For the durability test, all catalysts used the same operation condition with a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and loading mass of about 0.2 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The polarization curves were plotted as the overpotential  $(\eta)$  versus the log current (log[J]) to obtain the Tafel plots. The Tafel slope (b) was obtained by fitting the linear portion of the Tafel plots to the Tafel equation  $(\eta = b \log[J] + a)$ .

### **Results and Discussion**

Firstly, five transitional metal ions,  $Fe^{3+}$  (64.5 pm),  $Co^{2+}$  (65 pm),  $Ni^{2+}$  (69 pm),  $Mn^{2+}$  (67 pm), and  $Cu^{2+}$  (73 pm), were employed as metal precursors because of their similar ionic radius.<sup>[17]</sup> They

coordinate with the organic ligands 2,5-thiophenedicarboxylic acid and 4,4-bipyridine to form the HEMOFs in solvothermal reaction, as exhibited in Figure 2a. For the synthesis of HEMOFs, NaOH was used to increase the pH value of the reaction solution to accelerate the dissolution of TDC.[18] A transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of the Co-rich HEMOF (Metalic molar ratio 40% Co) is shown in Figure 2b, which reveal a rod or whisker morphology (The SEM images of other samples can be seen in Figure S3). Figure 2c shows the powder X-ray diffraction pattern of HEMOFs with equal metal components (EMC-HEMOFs, Fe<sub>0.2</sub>Co<sub>0.2</sub>Ni<sub>0.2</sub>Mn<sub>0.2</sub>Cu<sub>0.2</sub>-TDC-BIPY) and single cobalt-based MOFs as a control sample (Co-TDC-BIPY). The patterns are consistent with previously reported work, [18a] indicating the successful synthesis of EMC-HEMOFs. It is noticeable that a relatively weaker peak intensity and a slight shift of the XRD pattern (by 0.05°) for EMC-HEMOFs (Figure 2d) compared to the Co-TDC-BIPY was observed, which was ascribed to partial lattice distortion caused by the introduction of multi-metal components in the center of the metal coordination, in accordance with the literature reported. [19]

To investigate the impacts of each metal ion on the crystal shape and the oxygen evolution activity of HEMOFs, various types of metal-rich HEMOFs (40% Fe, Co, Ni, Mn and Cu, respectively) were synthesized by varying the proportion of metal components. The XRD results illustrate that metal-rich HEMOFs have the same structure, as shown in Figure 2e. However, a slight shift of angles can be observed in Figure S4 because of the different radii of the various metal ions. The metal ion coordinating centers of the Co-rich HEMOFs were not the same because other metal ions with different radii occupy some of the positions, thereby partly distorting the crystal framework. As shown in Figures 2f and S5, the EDS spectrum of metal-rich HEMOFs exhibits all elements (C, O, S, Fe, Co, Ni, Mn and Cu) with uniform distribution. The content of each metal element in each of the synthesized samples was quantified by ICP-MS, as shown in Figure S6 and Table S1. The molar ratio of Fe/Co/Ni/Mn/Cu was 15:41:15:13:16% in the Co-rich-MOFs, respectively, which is consistent with the feed ratio of Fe/Co/Ni/ Mn/Cu (15:40:15:15:15%). For the other metal-rich HEMOFs, a slight difference between the actual value and feed ratio was be observed, especially in Fe-rich HEMOFs and EMC-HEMOFs (Figure S6 and Table S1). That is ascribed to their slow reaction with ligands than other metal ions because of their large cation radius (Mn<sup>2+</sup>) and high valence (Fe<sup>3+</sup>), thereby leading to an offstoichiometry. [20] Figure S7 and Table S2 show the specific surface area of the prepared samples. Co-rich HEMOFs have 38 m $^{2}$ g $^{-1}$  specific surface area, and Co-TDC-BIPY 12 m $^{2}$ g $^{-1}$ .

In order to investigate the influence of the high entropy state on electronic states and metal coordinating environment of HEMOFs, XPS was employed to investigate the electronic structure of the catalytic active center. As shown in the full range of spectra of Co-TDC-BIPY, metal-rich HEMOFs and EMC-HEMOF in Figure 3a, the peaks of C 1s, O 1s, N 1s and S 2p can be detected. Moreover, the peaks of Mn 2p, Fe 2p, Co 2p, Ni 2p, Cu 2p can also be observed in metal-rich HEMOFs and EMC-HEMOFS, except for Co-TDC-BIPY where only Co 2p was observed. As shown in Figure 3b, the O 1s of EMC-HEMOFs and

2, 14, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinebrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1092/chem.202104288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for nules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons Licenseauch (https://onlinebrary.wiley.com/erems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons

Figure 2. a) The strategy to prepare HEMOFs. b) TEM images of Co-rich HEMOFs. c) XRD pattern. d) The enlarged characteristic peaks of EMC-HEMOFs and single Co-based MOFs. e) XRD pattern of metal-rich HEMOFs. f) EDS mapping of Co-rich HEMOFs; scale bars: 1 μm.

Figure 3. a) XPS full spectra, b) O 1s spectra, and c) Co 2p spectra of the different HEMOFs and Co-TDC-BIPY.

Co-rich HEMOFs results in broad peaks and apparent low oxygen coordination compared to the single metal Co-TDC-

BIPY MOFs, which illustrates that the electronic structure of O 1s was changed with the introduction of multi-metal ions.

Chemistry Europe

European Chemical Societies Publishing

12, 14, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/chem.202104288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use C) A articles are governed by the applicable Certains Commons Licenses

Compared with Co-TDC-BIPY, a noticeable peak shift of O 1s for EMC-HEMOFs (0.5 eV) and Co-rich HEMOFs (0.2 eV) confirmed the produced oxygen vacancies.<sup>[21]</sup> To further reflect the modified surrounding coordination environment for Co centers, the high-resolution Co 2p spectrum of Co-TDC-BIPY, EMC-HEMOFs and Co-Rich HEMOFs was studied (Figure 3c). The Co 2p region for Co-rich-MOFs, EMC-HEMOFs and Co-TDC-BIPY exhibits two typical peaks at 781.0 and 796.7 eV corresponding to Co  $2p_{3/2}$  and Co  $2p_{1/2}$  electronic configuration, respectively. When introducing the high entropy state, the high-resolution Co 2p spectrum shifts to a higher energy state, and the increasing valence of cobalt demonstrates a changed local electronic structure of the Co center.[21,22] Compared with the Co-TDC-BIPY, the binding energy of Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> in Co-rich-MOFs, EMC-HEMOFs has a positive shift about 0.2 and 0.4 eV, respectively, which illustrates that an introduction of multimetal nodes can promote a high level of the binding energy of Co 2p. The oxygen is closely linked with Co metal ions. The appended satellite peaks of Co 2p<sub>2/3</sub> and Co 2p<sub>1/2</sub>, which could ascribe to the  $Co^{2+}$  and  $Co^{3+}$  states. Moreover, as shown in Figure S8, the Ni and Cu 2p show a large positive shift of 0.3 and 0.7 eV because of their large atom radii when comparing their binding energy in Co-rich HEMOFs and EMC-HEMOFs. Their changed chemical states prove the influence of introducing the multi-metal ions. The binding energy of Fe and Mn 2p in Co-rich HEMOFs and EMC-HEMOFs shows no apparent changes because of their almost equal atomic radii, like reported. [20b] In particular, oxygen vacancies are beneficial for the uptake of oxygen adsorbates and strengthening adsorption, thereby improving the OER activities. [23] Thus, the produced oxygen vacancies and high valence cobalt caused by introducing multi-metal ions in HEMOFs efficiently modify the electronic structure and coordination environment of the metal active site, which will affect the oxygen evolution reaction for Co-rich HEMOFs.

To verify that the changed metal coordination center of HEMOFs can promote oxygen evolution, we carried out electrochemical tests. Firstly, the as-prepared EMC-HEMOFs and pure phase Co-TDC-BIPY were tested with the three-electrode configuration by using Hg/HgO as reference electrode and Pt foil as counter electrode and our catalyst as the working electrode in an alkaline electrolyte (1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH). Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves depict the polarization curves without IR compensation. As shown in Figure 4a, the Co-TDC-BIPY has low electrocatalytic performance with the potential of 1.629 V vs. RHE at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which equals an overpotential of 399 mV. After introducing the high entropy state in Co-TDC-BIPY (EMC-HEMOFs), EMC-HEMOFs give improved electrocatalytic performance with a less positive potential value of 84 mV at a current density at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Figure 4b depicts the Tafel plots of EMC-HEMOFs and Co-TDC-BIPY, which show Tafel slopes of 49 and 56 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, thus indicating a similar reaction mechanism for OER. Figures 4c and S9 show the capacitance of the electrochemical double layer ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ). Among the EMC-HEMOFs and Co-TDC-BIPY, their  $C_{\rm dl}$  has a noticeable difference: 0.62 and 13.30 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. As shown in Figure 4d, the Nyquist curve of Co-TDC-BIPY has a semi-circle,

exhibit a lower electrochemical capacitance than Co-TDC-BIPY.

Next, we systematically investigated the influence of various cobalt contents on OER activities for target samples. As shown in Figure 4e, the LSV curves show that the HEMOFs with the proportion of Mn<sub>0.15</sub>Fe<sub>0.15</sub>Co<sub>0.4</sub>Ni<sub>0.15</sub>Cu<sub>0.15</sub>, also named Co-rich HEMOFs, give the best performance in all samples. The current density and overpotential of all samples are exhibited in Figure 4f. Decreasing the cobalt content in Co-TDC-BIPY (the Co content in various samples is 100, 80, 60, and 40% as molar metal fractions) means that the previous Co atom sites were occupied by other transition metal ions. As a result, the modified MOFs catalysts show lower overpotentials with decreased Co content. However, when the proportion of Co drops to 20% (all metal ion proportions are equal), here, the oxygen evolution performance of HEMOFs has a sharp turning point, showing an increased overpotential. This result could be due to the formation of a more unordered pore structure and is not beneficial for the diffusion kinetics for mass transfer in the OER process. More importantly, although the existence of a large number of other metals can modify the Co atoms acting as a main catalytic active center, the low proportion of Co should also be responsible for the poor OER performance.

To investigate which metal ions play the more essential role in oxygen evolution, a series of metal-rich HEMOFs were prepared with different types of metal ions leading to Fe-, Co-, Ni-, Mn-, and Cu-rich HEMOFs. The OER performance of metalrich HEMOFs was investigated in the same electrochemical system. Moreover, the control catalyst of RuO<sub>2</sub> as a reference was simultaneously investigated. Figure 5a shows that the Corich HEMOF gives excellent electrocatalytic performance with the potential of 1.54 V at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is better than the RuO2 electrode tested and other metal-rich HEMOFs catalysts based on the same test standard. Meanwhile, it should be highlighted that the Co-rich HEMOF exhibits a super-high current density of 112 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under the potential of 1.71 V versus RHE. The Tafel plots of Fe-, Co-, Ni-, Mn-, and Cu-rich HEMOFs as well as RuO2 are shown in Figure 5b to probe changes in the reaction mechanism, which are 52, 48, 55, 51, 51, and 52 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. The result shows that all metal-rich HEMOFs and RuO2 have the same reaction mechanism. In Figures 5c and S10, The Co-rich HEMOF shows the highest capacitance of 1.43 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> of all electrocatalysts. To further understand the diffusion process and conductivity of the prepared samples, the Nyquist plot is given in Figure 5d. The Co-rich HEMOF shows the biggest Warburg slope, [24] indicating the fastest diffusion kinetics. Compared to the other control samples, only the Co-rich HEMOF shows an apparent

2.14, Downloaded from https://chenistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/chem.2010/4288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/1/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. a) LSV curves, b) Tafel plots, c) double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ), and d) Nyquist plots measured at open circuit potential toward OER of EMC-HEMOFs and Co-TDC-BIPY. e) LSV curves of HEMOFs with different proportions of metal ions. f) The corresponding overpotential and current density under a voltage of 1.65 V vs. RHE when changing the proportion of cobalt in HEMOFs.

capacitance response behavior, as shown in the inset of Figure 5d; this is consistent with the  $C_{\rm dl}$  result in Figure 5c. The overpotential of the metal-rich HEMOFs, EMC-HEMOFs and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> for the oxygen evolution reaction is given in Figure 5e, and Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, Cu-HEMOFs, EMC-HEMOFs and RuO<sub>2</sub> is 345, 310, 323, 349, 365, 315 and 334 mV, respectively. The prepared Co-rich HEMOF has a lower overpotential (310 mV) than the RuO<sub>2</sub> catalyst (334 mV). The overpotential of RuO<sub>2</sub> we prepared is the same as the literature reported. [25] Thus, the above result concludes that the Co atoms can play more favourable catalytic activity than other transition metals in the prepared HEMOFs, which is consistent with the literature. [26] Finally, the stability was tested by using the optimized catalyst of Co-rich HEMOF as an experimental target and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> as a control sample, as shown in Figure 5f. The Co-rich HEMOF has a durability of 90% after 8.3 h cycling test (The

operation voltage is 1.54 V corresponding to  $10 \text{ mA} \text{ cm}^{-2}$ . For the control sample of  $\text{RuO}_2$ , the sample operation condition is also  $10 \text{ mA} \text{ cm}^{-2}$ ). Figures S11 and S12 shows the electrochemical characterization of another series of materials synthesized the same way and confirms a high degree of reproducibility.

Overall, combined with the characterization of the physical/chemical state of HEMOFs and electrochemical results, the superior performance of HEMOFs over single Co-TDC-BIPY should be attributed to two points. Firstly, the HEMOFs with high specific surface endows more electrochemical active sites, which are beneficial to the diffusion kinetics for mass transfer in the OER process. More importantly, the introduction of multimetals with various radii/or valence changed the catalytic atom surrounded coordination environment, show the existence of oxygen defects and increase of Co 2p with high binding

Figure 5. a) Linear sweep voltammetry curves, b) Tafel plots, c)  $C_{dlr}$  d) Nyquist plots measured at open circuit potential, and e) overpotential of toward OER of metal-rich HEMOFs (M=Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, or Cu) and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. f) Stability testing of Co-rich HEMOFs and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> for 8.3 h at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> KOH.

energies, thereby enhancing the OER activities via a changed electronic structure that influences the strength of desorptionabsorption for oxygen intermediates.

To better understand why the unsaturated coordination environment of the catalytic active center is caused by the introduction of multi-metal sites, more supports are provided based on Co-TDC-BIY's basic unit by using Co atom as a catalytic module. Figure 6a illustrates the concept of lattice distortion when introducing the metal ions with different ion radii or different valence states, attributing to the difference in the binding length when various metal ions bind with organic ligands. [14,27] More specifically, Figure 6b, c exhibits the influence on the active center from surrounded coordination environment. As shown in Figure 6b, from the perspective of the basic unit of HEMOFs, the other metals (purple dashed circle) could be Fe, Mn, Ni, and Cu, which could directly impact the Co catalytic center by M–O–C–Co. Meanwhile, the metal ions (red

dashed circle) linking with TDC are likely slightly influencing the Co coordination environment by partly twisting the bond angle. Moreover, as shown in Figure 6c, during the top/bottom position of the metal center linking with 4,4-BIPY that connects with other metals in another opposite position, there would be changeable binding energy, which could be a part of the unsaturated metal coordinate environment. Thus, introducing a high entropy state of metal ions provides a strategy to obtain the Co coordination environment with an unsaturated state and the modulation of cobalt electronic structure. During the oxygen evolution process in alkaline electrolyte, the reaction mechanism based on a Co active center is followed in Figure 6d. i)  $M + OH^- \rightarrow M - OH^* + e^-$ ; ii)  $M-OH^* + OH^- \rightarrow M-O^* + H_2O$ ; iii)  $M-O^*+OH^-\rightarrow M-OOH^*+e^-$ ; iv)  $M-OOH^*+OH^-\rightarrow M+O_2+OH^-$ H<sub>2</sub>O. In particular, the M represents the Co active center. During the oxygen evolution process, the OH<sup>-</sup> species usually prefer to adsorb on the transitional metal sites because of transitional

Licenses and Conditions (https://chemistry-europe.onlinelbrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/chem.202104288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errns-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/errns-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

Figure 6. a) The scheme of lattice distortion of MOFs caused by the introduction of multi-metal ions. b) Illustration of the interaction of the Co catalytic center (dark blue) with surrounded linking groups. c) The interaction between Co catalytic center (dark blue) and surrounded atoms, purple atoms represent the other metal atoms: Mn, Fe, Ni, or Cu. d) Scheme of the OER reaction mechanism of HEMOFs.

metal unpaired t2g orbitals, [28] thereby forming the adsorbent state of OH (OH\*) on catalytic sites surface (step i). When introducing the high entropy state in MOFs, the Co coordination environment is changed, as the previous XPS results demonstrated and discussed above; meanwhile, the Co catalytic active centers with unsaturated coordination environments are coined, which could be beneficial for the dissociation process (steps ii and iii), as many groups reported. [20b,29] Finally, oxygen must desorb from the M surface, and the M catalytic active center returns to the initial state. However, owing to the enormous chaos from the diversity of components, this design concept imposes a challenge of in-depth understanding of the mechanism for oxygen evolution reaction in high entropy MOFs. Hence, more effort is underway to design/fabricate high entropy materials and ascertain robust electrocatalytic active sites.

#### Conclusion

In summary, we have developed a facile method to synthesize efficient high-entropy MOF-based electrocatalysts by introducing multi-metal ions in a one-step solvothermal reaction. The investigation shows that introducing multi-metal ions into MOFs can distort the lattice, thereby changing the coordination environment for the metal catalytic active center. The tunable coordination environment can be a strategy to tailor the adsorption-desorption energies of oxygenated intermediates to enhance the OER performance. A series of synthesized individual metal-rich HEMOFs were investigated in oxygen evolution

to find a suitable unsaturated coordination environment for the metal active center, and it was shown that the Co-rich HEMOF gives the best performance of all the prepared HEMOFs. More specifically, the Co-rich HEMOF exhibits a low overpotential of 310 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Overall, introducing multi-metal ions to form a high-entropy-state MOFs with partial lattice distortion could be a new efficient strategy to modulate the catalytic atoms' coordination environment center so as to optimize the oxygen evolution performance of MOFs catalysts, which also provide a reference for the design od other functional materials.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Novo Nodisk Fundation (grant no. NNF18OC0034918) and the Danish Research Council (grant no. 8022-00237B). Yuechao Yao thanks for the support of the Chinese Scholarship Council.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

2, 14, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/chem.202104288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [06/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions)

on Wiley Online Library for rules

of use; OA article:

s are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Keywords:** high entropy materials • lattice distortion • metalorganic frameworks · oxygen evolution reaction · random occupation of multi-metals

- [1] a) M. Wu, Y. Wang, Z. Wei, L. Wang, M. Zhuo, J. Zhang, X. Han, J. Ma, J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 10918-10925; b) N. Xu, Y. Zhang, T. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Qiao, Nano Energy 2019, 57, 176-185; c) H. N. Nong, L. J. Falling, A. Bergmann, M. Klingenhof, H. P. Tran, C. Spori, R. Mom, J. Timoshenko, G. Zichittella, A. Knop-Gericke, S. Piccinin, J. Perez-Ramirez, B. R. Cuenya, R. Schlogl, P. Strasser, D. Teschner, T. E. Jones, Nature 2020, 587, 408-413; d) Z. Wang, J. Ang, B. Zhang, Y. Zhang, X. Y. D. Ma, T. Yan, J. Liu, B. Che, Y. Huang, X. Lu, Appl. Catal. B 2019, 254, 26-36; e) C. Wei, R. R. Rao, J. Peng, B. Huang, I.E. L. Stephens, M. Risch, Z. J. Xu, Y. Shao-Horn, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, e1806296.
- [2] J. Huang, P. Xu, T. Gao, J. Huangfu, X.-j. Wang, S. Liu, Y. Zhang, B. Song, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2019, 8, 1319-1328.
- [3] a) Y. Lee, J. Suntivich, K. J. May, E. E. Perry, Y. Shao-Horn, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2012, 3, 399-404; b) T. Audichon, T. W. Napporn, C. Canaff, C. u Morais, C. m Comminges, K. B. Kokoh, J. Phys. Chem. C 2016, 120, 2562-2573; c) J. Lim, D. Park, S. S. Jeon, C. W. Roh, J. Choi, D. Yoon, M. Park, H. Jung, H. Lee, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 28, 1704796.
- [4] J. Wu, T. Zhao, R. Zhang, R. Xu, J. Gao, J. Yao, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 2018, 644, 1660-1666.
- [5] a) H. Dau, C. Limberg, T. Reier, M. Risch, S. Roggan, P. Strasser, ChemCatChem 2010, 2, 724-761; b) K. Zhu, X. Zhu, W. Yang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 1252-1265; Angew. Chem. 2019, 131, 1264-1277; c) X. Rong, J. Parolin, A. M. Kolpak, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 1153-1158.
- [6] a) J. K. Pedersen, T. A. A. Batchelor, D. Yan, L. E. J. Skjegstad, J. Rossmeisl, Curr. Opin. Electrochem. 2021, 26.100651; b) D. Zhou, S. Wang, Y. Jia, X. Xiong, H. Yang, S. Liu, J. Tang, J. Zhang, D. Liu, L. Zheng, Y. Kuang, X. Sun, B. Liu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 736-740; Angew. Chem. 2019, 131, 746-750.
- [7] a) H. Y. Su, Y. Gorlin, I. C. Man, F. Calle-Vallejo, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Rossmeisl, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2012, 14, 14010-14022; b) C. Xie, D. Yan, W. Chen, Y. Zou, R. Chen, S. Zang, Y. Wang, X. Yao, S. Wang, Mater. Today 2019, 31, 47-68.
- [8] a) L. Tao, C.-Y. Lin, S. Dou, S. Feng, D. Chen, D. Liu, J. Huo, Z. Xia, S. Wang, Nano Energy 2017, 41, 417-425; b) Q. Shi, S. Fu, C. Zhu, J. Song, D. Du, Y. Lin, Mater. Horiz. 2019, 6, 684-702; c) F. L. Li, Q. Shao, X. Huang, J. P. Lang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 1888-1892; Angew. Chem. 2018, 130, 1906-1910.
- [9] a) Y. Pei, Z. Qi, X. Li, R. V. Maligal-Ganesh, T. W. Goh, C. Xiao, T. Wang, W. Huang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2017, 5, 6186-6192; b) X. Zhang, A. Chen, M. Zhong, Z. Zhang, X. Zhang, Z. Zhou, X.-H. Bu, Electrochem. Energy Rev. 2018, 2, 29-104.
- [10] H. Ning, G. Li, Y. Chen, K. Zhang, Z. Gong, R. Nie, W. Hu, Q. Xia, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 1957-1968.
- [11] D. Ji, S. Peng, L. Fan, L. Li, X. Qin, S. Ramakrishna, J. Mater. Chem. A **2017**, *5*, 23898–23908.
- [12] S. Zhao, Y. Wang, J. Dong, C.-T. He, H. Yin, P. An, K. Zhao, X. Zhang, C. Gao, L. Zhang, J. Lv, J. Wang, J. Zhang, A. M. Khattak, N. A. Khan, Z. Wei, J. Zhang, S. Liu, H. Zhao, Z. Tang, Nat. Energy 2016, 1.16184.
- [13] W. Cheng, X. Zhao, H. Su, F. Tang, W. Che, H. Zhang, Q. Liu, Nat. Energy **2019**, 4, 115-122.
- [14] Z. Xue, K. Liu, Q. Liu, Y. Li, M. Li, C. Y. Su, N. Ogiwara, H. Kobayashi, H. Kitagawa, M. Liu, G. Li, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 5048.

- [15] K. Ge, S. Sun, Y. Zhao, K. Yang, S. Wang, Z. Zhang, J. Cao, Y. Yang, Y. Zhang, M. Pan, L. Zhu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 12097-12102.
- [16] M. Qu, Y. Jiang, M. Yang, S. Liu, Q. Guo, W. Shen, M. Li, R. He, Appl. Catal. B **2020**, *263*.118324.
- [17] a) C. R. McCormick, R. E. Schaak, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2021, 143, 1017-1023; b) T. Wang, H. Chen, Z. Yang, J. Liang, S. Dai, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 4550-4554; c) C. A. Coulson, Nature 1961, 189, 3.
- [18] a) S. Liu, X. Zhang, G. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 34269-34278; b) C. Worch, F. Kettner, D. Lässig, J. Lincke, H. Krautscheid, R. Gläser, Catal. Commun. 2014, 44, 46–49.
- [19] a) X. Zhao, Z. Xue, W. Chen, X. Bai, R. Shi, T. Mu, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 26238-26242; b) A. K. Cheetham, T. D. Bennett, F. X. Coudert, A. L. Goodwin, Dalton Trans. 2016, 45, 4113-4126; c) W. Xu, H. Chen, K. Jie, Z. Yang, T. Li, S. Dai, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 5018-5022; Angew. Chem. 2019, 131, 5072-5076; d) A. Schejn, A. Aboulaich, L. Balan, V. Falk, J. Lalevée, G. Medjahdi, L. Aranda, K. Mozet, R. Schneider, Catal. Sci. Technol. 2015, 5, 1829-1839.
- [20] a) J. B. Rivest, P. K. Jain, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2013, 42, 89-96; b) W. Huang, J. Zhang, D. Liu, W. Xu, Y. Wang, J. Yao, H. T. Tan, K. N. Dinh, C. Wu, M. Kuang, W. Fang, R. Dangol, L. Song, K. Zhou, C. Liu, J. W. Xu, B. Liu, Q. Yan, ACS Nano 2020, 14, 17640-17651.
- [21] Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, Nat. Energy 2019, 4, 329–338.
- [22] a) J. Yang, H. W. Liu, W. N. Martens, R. L. Frost, J. Phys. Chem. C 2010, 114, 111-119; b) Y. Sun, S. Gao, F. Lei, Y. Xie, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2015, 44,
- [23] a) Y. Zhu, L. Zhang, B. Zhao, H. Chen, X. Liu, R. Zhao, X. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. Liu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29; b) A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, W. T. Hong, Y. L. Lee, L. Giordano, K. A. Stoerzinger, M. T. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn, Nat. Chem. 2017, 9, 457-465; c) J. J. Zhang, H. H. Wang, T. J. Zhao, K. X. Zhang, X. Wei, Z. D. Jiang, S. I. Hirano, X. H. Li, J. S. Chen, ChemSusChem 2017, 10, 2875-2879.
- [24] J. Z. Zou, P. Liu, L. Huang, Q. Zhang, T. B. Lan, S. Z. Zeng, X. R. Zeng, L. Yu, S. Y. Liu, H. L. Wu, W. X. Tu, Y. C. Yao, Electrochim. Acta 2018, 271, 599-607.
- [25] a) Z. Yang, C. Zhao, Y. Qu, H. Zhou, F. Zhou, J. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Li, Adv. Mater. 2019, 31, e1808043; b) T. Sun, J. Wang, C. Qiu, X. Ling, B. Tian, W. Chen, C. Su, Adv. Sci. 2018, 5, 1800036.
- [26] Y. Dang, P. Han, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhou, J. Mater. Sci. 2020, 55, 13951-
- [27] a) J. Li, Z. Zhang, X. Zhang, L. Xu, S. Yuan, H. Wei, H. Chu, Dalton Trans. 2021, 50, 9690–9694; b) K. Chen, S. Kim, R. Rajendiran, K. Prabakar, G. Li, Z. Shi, C. Jeong, J. Kang, O. L. Li, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2021, 582, 977-990; c) M. Retuerto, L. Pascual, O. Piqué, P. Kayser, M. A. Salam, M. Mokhtar, J. A. Alonso, M. Peña, F. Calle-Vallejo, S. Rojas, J. Mater. Chem. A 2021, 9, 2980-2990.
- [28] L. Wang, C. Shi, L. Wang, L. Pan, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, Nanoscale 2020, 12, 4790-4815.
- [29] J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, Science 2011, 334, 1383-1385.

Manuscript received: December 1, 2021 Accepted manuscript online: January 18, 2022 Version of record online: February 9, 2022