---
source: Yu 等 - 2021 - Enhanced oxygen evolution catalytic activity of NiS2 by coupling with ferrous phosphite a.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 56.921s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:29:42.001939Z
---

# Sustainable Energy & Fuels

**PAPER** 

View Article Online
View Journal | View Issue

Cite this: Sustainable Energy Fuels, 2021. 5, 1801

# Enhanced oxygen evolution catalytic activity of NiS<sub>2</sub> by coupling with ferrous phosphite and phosphide†

Jie Yu, <sup>ab</sup> Tao Zhang, <sup>a</sup> Changchang Xing, <sup>ab</sup> Xuejiao Li, <sup>ab</sup> Xinyang Li, <sup>ab</sup> Bo Wu <sup>bc</sup> and Yue Li <sup>b\*</sup>

We develop a facile method to improve the OER performance of  $NiS_2$  nanospheres by coupling ferrous phosphite and phosphide (simply abbreviated as Fe-P) with  $NiS_2$ . The as prepared  $NiS_2$ /Fe-P nanospheres possess abundant interfaces which can not only enrich the electroactive sites but also promote electronic transfer, thus further facilitating intrinsic activity for the OER. Consequently, optimal  $NiS_2$ /Fe-P exhibits outstanding OER activity with an ultralow overpotential of only 218 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a Tafel slope of 47.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. More importantly, it can achieve a relatively high current density of 800 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an overpotential of only 306 mV, as well as pretty good stability after 160 h testing, which is beneficial for practical applications.

Received 14th December 2020 Accepted 9th February 2021

DOI: 10.1039/d0se01837f

rsc.li/sustainable-energy

### 1 Introduction

It is imperative to develop renewable energy storage and utilization technologies to address the increasing energy demand and environmental issues.1-4 The OER is a necessary halfreaction in many renewable energy technologies, such as electrochemical water splitting,5-8 metal-air batteries9,10 and CO2 reduction reactions.11,12 However, the sluggish kinetic OER requires efficient electrocatalysts to reduce energy consumption.13-16 Electrocatalysts with a low overpotential, small Tafel slope and good stability are crucial for the OER. Although the most advanced noble metal-based electrocatalysts (e.g., RuO<sub>2</sub>, and IrO2) have been widely reported, the scarcity, high cost and electrochemical instability of theses catalysts seriously impeded their commercial applications.<sup>17</sup> Therefore, great efforts have been devoted to exploring OER catalysts with low cost, high efficiency and good stability. Recently, transition metal oxides/ hydroxides, chalcogenides and phosphides have been extensively studied because they could achieve good OER performance comparable to or even better than those of noble metalbased catalysts through rational activation. 18-20

Among these non-noble-metal based electrocatalysts, transition metal sulfides (TMSs) have attracted extensive attention owing to their earth abundance, remarkable electrocatalytic

performance and considerable electrical conductivity. Various TMSs such as MoS<sub>2</sub>, CoS<sub>2</sub>, FeS<sub>2</sub> and NiS<sub>2</sub> have been extensively investigated as electrocatalysts. <sup>21–23</sup> Unfortunately, the limited electroactive sites, insufficient current density and incompetent stability of these TMSs severely hindered their electrocatalytic activity, thus making it difficult to meet the needs of practical applications. <sup>24</sup> Much effort has been devoted to improving the electrocatalytic performance of TMSs, such as coupling TMSs with other materials to form composites. As for NiS<sub>2</sub>, coupling with Fe-based nanomaterials may facilitate its catalytic activity, since it is widely accepted that coupling Fe with the Ni matrix would lead to outstanding catalytic performance due to the flexible electronic structure of Fe. <sup>25,26</sup>

Considering that the electrochemical reactions always take place at the surfaces or interfaces of catalysts, it is reasonable that interfacial engineering would be one of the most effective methods to promote the activity of electrocatalysts.<sup>27–29</sup> In particular, it is a promising strategy to rationally engineer interfaces with two different components, thus optimizing the interfaces and surface electronic environment.<sup>28,30</sup> Thereby, this interface engineering could improve the OER efficiency by enriching electroactive sites and facilitating electron transfer.<sup>31</sup>

Herein, we successfully prepared NiS<sub>2</sub> coupled with ferrous phosphite and phosphide (simply abbreviated as Fe-P) to form NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres with abundant interfaces and a strong electronic interaction, which effectively improve the electrocatalytic activities of NiS<sub>2</sub> for the OER. The NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres were simply synthesized by a hydrothermal reaction and subsequent sulfidation process. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) proved the existence of abundant interfaces, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) further confirmed the strong electronic interaction

<sup>&</sup>quot;Key Laboratory of Materials Physics, Institute of Solid State Physics, HFIPS, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China. E-mail: yueli@issp.ac.cn

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>b</sup>University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, 230026, P. R. China

State Key Laboratory of Environment-friendly Energy Materials, Southwest University of Science and Technology, Mianyang, 621010, China

<sup>†</sup> Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: 10.1039/d0se01837f

between  $NiS_2$  and Fe-P. As a result, the optimal  $NiS_2$ /Fe-P exhibited outstanding OER activity with ultralow overpotentials of only 218 and 268 mV at current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, and a Tafel slope of 47.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. Furthermore, the optimal  $NiS_2$ /Fe-P can achieve a high current density of 800 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an overpotential of only 306 mV and exhibit pretty good long-term stability with the 160 h OER test, which is attractive for practical applications.

# 2 Experimental section

#### 2.1. Materials

Nickel(II) chloride hexahydrate (NiCl $_2 \cdot 6H_2O$ ), iron(II) sulfate heptahydrate (FeSO $_4 \cdot 7H_2O$ ), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS, C $_{12}H_{25}$ NaO $_4$ S), sodium hypophosphite monohydrate (NaH $_2$ -PO $_2 \cdot H_2O$ ), N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF, C $_3H_7NO$ ), sodium hydroxide (NaOH), elemental sulfur powders (S) and ethanol (C $_2H_6O$ ) were provided by Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Ruthenium oxide (RuO $_2$ ) was provided by Aladdin Industrial Corporation and used without further purification. Nitrogen (N $_2$ , 99.99%) was provided by Nanjing Special Gas Factory Co., Ltd. Deionized water (resistivity:  $\sim$ 18 M $\Omega$  cm) was used in all experiments.

#### 2.2. Synthesis of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P and pure NiS<sub>2</sub> nanospheres

As shown in Scheme 1, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres were synthesized following path 'a'. In a typical synthesis process, SDS (0.1 g), NaH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>2</sub>·H<sub>2</sub>O (10 mmol), NiCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O (2 mmol) and FeSO<sub>4</sub>-·7H<sub>2</sub>O were dispersed in 10 mL deionized water and stirred to form a homogeneous solution. Subsequently, 5 mL DMF and 5 mL 5 M NaOH solution were slowly added dropwise into the above solution with stirring. Then the above solution was poured into a 25 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and maintained at 160 °C for 10 h. The obtained Ni/Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(-OH)<sub>6</sub> (briefly named Ni/Fe-HPO) spheres were separated using a magnet, washed with deionized water several times, and then dried under vacuum overnight at 60 °C. Different products of Ni/Fe-HPO were prepared by finely controlling the amount of FeSO<sub>4</sub>·7H<sub>2</sub>O (0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.0 mmol) during the hydrothermal process, which were named Ni/Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-HPO, Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO, Ni/Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-HPO and Ni/Fe<sub>1.0</sub>-HPO, respectively.

The final products with different Fe contents (0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.0 mmol) were obtained through the subsequent

Scheme 1 Schematic illustration for the synthetic process of  ${\rm NiS_2/Fe-P}$  and pure  ${\rm NiS_2}$  nanospheres.

sulfidation process and briefly named NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-P and NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>1.0</sub>-P, respectively. Typically, the elemental sulfur powders and different Ni/Fe-HPO nanospheres with a mass ratio of 3 : 1 were placed upstream and downstream in a porcelain boat, respectively, and annealed at 300 °C under a N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere for 3 hours with a heating rate of 5 °C min<sup>-1</sup>.

For comparison, pure NiS<sub>2</sub> nanospheres were also prepared by the same methods without the Fe source ('b' path in Scheme 1). The pure Ni nanospheres were synthesized according to a previous report,<sup>32</sup> followed by a sulfidation process to obtain NiS<sub>2</sub> nanospheres.

#### 2.3. Structural characterization

Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) patterns were obtained on a Philips X'pert Pro X-ray diffractometer with Cu K $\alpha$  radiation ( $\lambda$  = 0.15419 nm). Field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) was performed on a Sirion 200. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) were performed on a Tecnai G2 F20. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) tests were performed with Al K $\alpha$  X-rays on a Thermo VG Escalab 250 photoelectron spectrometer. Inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was conducted on a Thermo Scientific iCAP6300. Raman measurements were performed with a 532 nm excitation wavelength on a Raman spectrometer (Renishaw inVia Reflex).

#### 2.4. Electrochemical measurements

2.4.1 Fabrication of electrodes. The as prepared NiS $_2$ /Fe-P, pure NiS $_2$  or RuO $_2$  coated on carbon paper were used as work electrodes. Typically, 5 mg catalysts were dispersed in 1 mL solution mixture of 0.5 mL de-ionized water and 0.5 mL ethanol, together with 25  $\mu$ L Nafion (5%) and sonicated for 30 min to obtain uniformly dispersed catalyst ink. Then, 200  $\mu$ L of catalysts ink were drop-coated on 1 cm $^2$  sized carbon paper with an electrocatalyst loading of  $\sim$ 0.98 mg cm $^{-2}$ .

2.4.2 Electrochemical measurement. Electrochemical tests were performed in a standard three-electrode system using 1 M KOH as the electrolyte with a CHI 750E electrochemical workstation at room temperature. A graphite rod (with a diameter of 6 mm) was used as the counter electrode, a Ag/AgCl electrode was used as the reference electrode and the as prepared catalyst coating on carbon paper was employed as the working electrode. The OER catalytic activity was gained by using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and the Tafel slope was calculated from the LSV data. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was performed with a frequency from 100 kHz to 0.1 Hz at a constant potential. Long-term stability tests were performed by cyclic voltammetry scans at a sweep rate of 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> for 2500 cycles, chronoamperometry measurements at an  $\eta$  of 220 mV for 160 h and chronopotentiometry tests at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 130 h. All test data were iR-compensated (95%) and not otherwise specified. All measured potentials vs. the Ag/AgCl electrode were switched to the potentials vs. RHE using the following Nernst equation:

$$E_{\text{RHE}} = E_{\text{Ag/AgCl}} + 0.0591 \text{pH} + 0.098 \text{ V}.$$

#### 3 Results and discussion

The NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres were simply synthesized through a hydrothermal reaction and subsequent sulfidation process. As we know NaH2PO2 is a reducing agent, and its reducibility can be improved under alkaline conditions.33 Since the oxidative ability of Ni<sup>2+</sup> is stronger than that of Fe<sup>2+</sup>, during the hydrothermal reaction process, the redox reaction firstly occurs between Ni<sup>2+</sup> and (H<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>2</sub>)<sup>-</sup> to generate Ni and (HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sup>2-</sup> (reaction eqn (1)). At the same time, Fe<sup>2+</sup> reacts with the generated  $(HPO_3)^{2-}$  in the alkaline environment to form  $Fe_{11}(HPO_3)_8(OH)_6$ (reaction eqn (2)) and couples with Ni, and thus Ni/Fe11(-HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> (briefly named Ni/Fe-HPO) is formed. Ni/Fe-HPO with different molar ratios can be obtained by controlling the content of Fe sources in the hydrothermal reaction process (Ni/ Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-HPO, Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO, Ni/Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-HPO and Ni/Fe<sub>1.0</sub>-HPO were synthesized in this work). And the  $NiS_2$ /Fe-P nanospheres with different molar ratios were finally obtained after the sulfidation process.

$$Ni^{2+} + (H_2PO_2)^- + 3OH^- \rightarrow Ni + (HPO_3)^{2-} + 2H_2O$$
 (1)

$$11\text{Fe}^{2+} + 8(\text{HPO}_3)^{2-} + 6\text{OH}^- \rightarrow \text{Fe}_{11}(\text{HPO}_3)_8(\text{OH})_6$$
 (2)

Fig. 1 (a) SEM images and particle size distribution of Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO. (b) TEM and (c) HRTEM images of Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO. (d) SEM, (e) TEM, and (f) HRTEM images and (g) energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy elemental mapping of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P.

The morphology and microstructure of the catalysts were firstly characterized by scanning and transmission electron microscopy (SEM and TEM). As displayed in Fig. 1a and S1a,† typical Ni/Fe-HPO (Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO) exhibits the same nanosphere structure as pure Ni. However, the particle size statistical analysis chart (the inset in Fig. 1a and S1a†) shows that the mean diameter of the Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO nanospheres (204 nm) is about 3 times larger than that of pure Ni nanospheres (70 nm). Besides, the high-magnification SEM image shows that, unlike pure Ni nanospheres, the Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO nanospheres show a rougher surface. And other Ni/Fe-HPO nanospheres also exhibit a larger size and rougher surface than pure Ni nanospheres (Fig. S1ad†), indicating that the formation of Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> affected the size and surface of the products. Furthermore, the TEM image (Fig. 1b) confirms the uneven surface of the Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO nanospheres. The obviously larger size and rougher surface of Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO than pure Ni indicate that the nucleation and growth of Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> with Ni nanospheres result in the formation of Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO nanospheres. In addition, the highresolution TEM (HRTEM) image (Fig. 1c) clearly demonstrates the formation of Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO nanospheres. The d-spacing of 0.20 nm corresponds to the (111) facet of Ni and the d-spacing of 0.18 nm corresponds to the (322) facet of Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub>. The corresponding elemental mapping shows the even distribution of Ni, Fe, P and O elements in the Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO nanostructure (Fig. S1e†).

After sulfidation, NiS2/Fe-P inherits the nanosphere structure with a substantially constant size from the pristine Ni/Fe-HPO nanospheres (Fig. 1d and S2†). However, the TEM images show that all the NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres are complex with many irregularly distributed nanodomains (Fig. 1e and S3b-e†).34 The HRTEM images show many randomly distributed interfaces at the nanoscale (Fig. 1f and S3g-j†). As for pure NiS<sub>2</sub> (Fig. S3a and f<sup>†</sup>), no nanodomains or interfaces exist, and the HRTEM image only shows the d-spacing of 0.20 nm corresponding to the (-202) facet of NiS<sub>2</sub>. These results indicate that the formation of these interfaces is due to the coupling of Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P with NiS<sub>2</sub>. Such irregular interfaces might provide more active sites for electrocatalytic reactions, since electrochemical reactions mainly occur on the surfaces or at the interfaces of the electrocatalysts.  $^{35-37}$  Typically, the HRTEM image of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P is shown in Fig. 1f; the d-spacings of 0.28 and 0.232 nm correspond to the (200) and (-1-12) facets of NiS<sub>2</sub> and the d-spacings of 0.196 and 0.225 nm are ascribed to the (421) and (500) facets of Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub>, respectively. In addition, another HRTEM image of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P is also shown in Fig. S4.† The STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping of Ni, Fe, S, P and O demonstrate that all the elements are evenly distributed in NiS2/Fe0.4-P (Fig. 1g). The SEM-EDS (Fig. S5†) and ICP-MS results (Table S1†) confirm that the elemental composition of all the samples, and the elemental ratios of Fe and Ni are basically the same as the ratio of the Fe and Ni source added in the experiment.

The XRD pattern in Fig. 2a shows that Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO possesses three strong peaks located at  $\sim$ 44.5, 51.8 and 76.4 $^{\circ}$ corresponding to the (111), (200) and (220) facets of Ni (JCPDS no. 04-0850), respectively. The other diffraction peaks located at

Fig. 2 (a) XRD patterns of Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO and NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P. (b) The XPS spectrum of the survey scan for NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P; (c) Ni 2p spectra of NiS<sub>2</sub>/ Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P and pure NiS<sub>2</sub>; (d) Fe 2p, (e) S 2p and (f) P 2p spectra for NiS<sub>2</sub>/ Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P

13.6, 23.7, 27.3, 31.8, 36.5 and 56.6° match well with the (110), (300), (211), (400), (410) and (203) facets of  $Fe_{11}(HPO_3)_8(OH)_6$ (JCPDS no. 82-1202). After the sulfidation process, the diffraction peaks of Ni disappear and the diffraction peaks belonging to NiS<sub>2</sub> (JCPDS no. 73-0574) arise, indicating that Ni was completely sulfided into NiS2. The remaining diffraction peaks belong to Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> and no other obvious diffraction peaks appear. The XRD patterns of other comparative NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P and their corresponding precursors before sulfidation are displayed in Fig. S6.† The XRD patterns of all Ni/Fe-HPO precursors show that Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> is in a hexagonal crystal phase and the position of the diffraction peaks does not change with the increase of Fe content, indicating that the crystal structure of Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> remains unchanged. However, the intensity of the diffraction peaks gradually strengthens with the increase of Fe content, which illustrates that the content of the  $Fe_{11}(HPO_3)_8(OH)_6$ in Ni/Fe-HPO composites gradually increases. And this trend remains unchanged after sulfidation. As for pure NiS<sub>2</sub>, it shows the characteristic diffraction peaks of NiS<sub>2</sub> without other peaks, indicating that only NiS<sub>2</sub> was produced when no Fe source was added.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed to investigate the valence state and chemical composition of the as prepared NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P and pure NiS<sub>2</sub>. The survey scan spectrum in Fig. 2b confirms the existence of Ni, S, Fe, P and O elements from NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P, which is consistent with the results of EDS and ICP. In the Ni 2p spectra, both the NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P and pure

NiS<sub>2</sub> displayed two spin-orbit doublets and two shakeup satellites (Fig. 2c). The peaks located at binding energies of 853.8 eV and 871.1 eV are assigned to  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  of Ni<sup>2+</sup>, which agrees with the previous reported values for NiS2. Besides, the peaks located at binding energies of 856.2 eV and 874.7 eV are attributed to  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  of Ni<sup>3+</sup>, indicating the slight oxidation of the nickel element on the surface of NiS2/Fe0.4-P, consistent with previous reports.38,39 The other two peaks at binding energies of 860.8 eV and 880.7 eV belong to the satellite peaks of Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$ , respectively. It is obvious that the binding energy of Ni 2p for NiS2/Fe0.4-P is higher than that of pure NiS2, indicating the strong electronic interaction between NiS<sub>2</sub> and Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P. To reveal the rule of electronic interaction, the Ni 2p spectra of other NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P (NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-P and NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>1,0</sub>-P) catalysts were also measured and compared with those of pure NiS2. As shown in Fig. S7,† all the peaks belonging to Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P positively shift compared with those of pure NiS2, confirming the electron transfer from NiS2 to Fe-P.40,41 The interfacial electronic interactions between NiS2 and Fe-P will further provide opportunity for facilitating the OER.39

In the Fe 2p spectrum (Fig. 2d), two peaks located at 712.1 eV and 725.5 are attributed to  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  of Fe<sup>2+</sup>, and other two peaks located at 714.1 eV and 727.4 eV are assigned to 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and  $2p_{1/2}$  of Fe<sup>3+</sup>, respectively. It is worth noting that, compared with Ni/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-HPO, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P shows two new peaks at 707.4 and 720.3 eV, which can be ascribed to Fe-P species according to the previous report (Fig. S8b†).42 It demonstrates that some Fe<sub>11</sub>(-HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(OH)<sub>6</sub> was converted to iron phosphide species during sulfidation process. However, no diffraction peaks belonging to iron phosphide species were found in the XRD pattern of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P, indicating that the amount of the formed iron phosphide species is little and probably amorphous. The S 2p spectrum of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P exhibits two peaks located at binding energies of 162.6 and 163.8 eV, which are assigned to 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and 2p<sub>1/2</sub> of Ni-S (Fig. 2e). As for the P 2p region (Fig. 2f), a set of peaks with binding energies of 133.3 and 134.1 eV can be attributed to P-O species.

The electrocatalytic OER performance of the as prepared NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P was evaluated in 1 M KOH electrolyte using a threeelectrode system at room temperature. Carbon paper with the  $NiS_2/Fe_{0.4}$ -P electrocatalyst loading of  $\sim$ 0.98 mg cm<sup>-2</sup> was used as the working electrode. The optical photo and the SEM images of the top and side surfaces of the working electrode are shown in Fig. S9.† For comparison, the performance of commercial RuO<sub>2</sub>, bare carbon paper, pure NiS<sub>2</sub> and other NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P (Fe<sub>0.2</sub>, Fe<sub>0.8</sub>, Fe<sub>1.0</sub>) catalysts was also studied under the same conditions. Fig. 3a displays the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of the catalysts with 95% iR compensation. The NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P and pure NiS₂ catalysts all reveal anodic peaks at ~1.4 V, representing the redox Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> reaction, and oxygen evolution starts at more positive potentials.43 As for NiS2/Fe0.4-P, the current density increases rapidly with the increase of potential, indicating its prominent OER performance. NiS2/Fe0.4-P requires overpotentials of only 218 and 268 mV to deliver current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, superior to those of other comparative catalysts, as well as commercial RuO2. More

Fig. 3 OER performance of the as prepared catalysts. (a) LSV curves of pure NiS<sub>2</sub>, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P, RuO<sub>2</sub> and bare carbon paper measured in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte. (b) The corresponding Tafel plots for the catalysts. (c) Histogram analysis of overpotential at a current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ and Tafel slopes for the catalysts. (d) TOF values of pure NiS<sub>2</sub> and NiS<sub>2</sub>/ Fe-P at different overpotentials. (e) Nyquist plots of pure NiS<sub>2</sub> and NiS<sub>2</sub>/ Fe-P given by EIS measurements and the corresponding equivalent circuit. (f) LSV curves of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P collected before and after 2500 CV cycles, and the inset shows the chronoamperometric responses of  $NiS_2/Fe_{0.4}$ -P at an  $\eta$  of 220 mV for 160 h

concretely, to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the required overpotentials for pure NiS<sub>2</sub>, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>1,0</sub>-P and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> are 353, 281, 268, 289 and 391 mV, respectively (Fig. 3c). The overpotential to reach current densities of 50 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, as well as the current density at the overpotential of 300 mV of all electrocatalysts were also compared in Fig. S10,† which further confirmed the best OER performance of the NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P electrocatalyst. Importantly, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P can achieve a high current density of 800 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an ultralow overpotential of only 306 mV, which is attractive for practical applications. The Tafel plots were calculated from the polarization curves. As shown in Fig. 3b, the estimated Tafel slopes of pure NiS<sub>2</sub>, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-P, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>1.0</sub>-P and commercial RuO<sub>2</sub> are 84.6, 68.1, 93.9, 104.9 and 138.9 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, while a smaller Tafel slope of 47.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> is achieved for NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P, indicating its higher charge transfer coefficient and faster OER kinetics. Therefore, NiS2/Fe0.4-P displays the lowest overpotential and Tafel slope among all the investigated catalysts. The faradaic efficiency (FE) of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P in 1 M KOH towards the OER is ~97.5%, which was calculated as the ratio of the experimental and theoretical values of oxygen production (Table S2†). Furthermore, the OER performances of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P are competitive among current non-noble-metalbased catalysts (Table S3†). Notably, it is found that the trend

of experimental OER activities of different NiS2/Fe-P nanospheres and pure NiS2 nanospheres agrees with the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), which is regarded as the principal factor for the catalytic behavior.  $^{44,45}$  The  $C_{\rm dl}$  value was recorded by cycling the electrode in non-faradaic regions (1.10-1.24 V vs. RHE) at different scan rates. As shown in Fig. S11,†  $NiS_2/Fe_{0.4}$ -P shows a  $C_{dl}$  value of 5.78 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, higher than that of  $NiS_2$  (2.91 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>),  $NiS_2$ /Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-P (3.84 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>),  $NiS_2$ /Fe<sub>0.8</sub>-P  $(4.18 \text{ mF cm}^{-2})$  and  $NiS_2/Fe_{1.0}$ -P  $(3.58 \text{ mF cm}^{-2})$ . The ECSA values were estimated using the equation of ECSA =  $C_{\rm dl}/C_{\rm s} \times S$ , where  $C_s$  is the general surface specific capacitance (0.040 mF cm<sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH solution), 46 and S is the geometric surface area of the working electrode (1 cm<sup>2</sup> in this work). The ECSA of different catalysts followed a decreasing order of NiS2/Fe0.4-P  $(144.5 \text{ cm}^2) > \text{NiS}_2/\text{Fe}_{0.8}-\text{P} (104.5 \text{ cm}^2) > \text{NiS}_2/\text{Fe}_{0.2}-\text{P} (96.0 \text{ cm}^2) >$  $NiS_2/Fe_{1.0}$ -P (89.5 cm<sup>2</sup>) >  $NiS_2$  (72.8 cm<sup>2</sup>). It explains that as the amount of Fe-P increases gradually, the ECSA increases first and reaches its maximum at Fe<sub>0.4</sub>. This indicates that the NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres with an appropriate ratio of NiS2 and Fe-P can produce abundant interfaces which would enrich the active sites and promote electronic transfer, thereby enhancing the OER efficiency, since the electrocatalytic reactions always occur on the surfaces or interfaces of the catalysts. 35,36,47

To verify the intrinsic activity, the current density of LSV profiles for the OER was normalized by the ECSA. As shown in Fig. S12,† to realize an ECSA current density of 0.15 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the overpotentials of NiS2, NiS2/Fe0.2-P, NiS2/Fe0.4-P, NiS2/Fe0.8-P and NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>1.0</sub>-P are 331, 289, 237, 278 and 298 mV, respectively, indicating that NiS2/Fe0.4-P possesses the highest intrinsic activity for the OER. Moreover, the turnover frequency (TOF) values refer to the amount of transferred electron per second for every active site which can also demonstrate the intrinsic OER activity of each catalyst. Thus the TOF values were determined, assuming that all metal atoms act as the active centers (see the calculation details in the ESI†).48,49 As shown in Fig. 3d, NiS<sub>2</sub>/  $Fe_{0.4}$ -P delivers the TOF value of 0.258 s<sup>-1</sup> at an overpotential of 300 mV, dramatically higher than that of 0.000920, 0.00696,  $0.00996 \text{ and } 0.00421 \text{ s}^{-1} \text{ for pure NiS}_2, \text{NiS}_2/\text{Fe}_{0.2}\text{-P}, \text{NiS}_2/\text{Fe}_{0.8}\text{-P}$ and NiS2/Fe1.0-P, respectively, further indicating its excellent intrinsic activity. The higher intrinsic activity of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P is mainly caused by the strong electronic interaction between NiS2 and Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P. The XPS results in Fig. 2c and S7<sup>†</sup> confirm that the electron transfer from NiS2 to Fe-P makes NiS2 more acidic (Lewis acid), and thus H<sub>2</sub>O molecules (Lewis base) can be easily activated on the surfaces of NiS2 through Lewis acid-base interactions thereby promoting the intrinsic activity for the OER.42,50,51 The origin of the excellent intrinsic OER performance of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P was further investigated using electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS). As shown in Fig. 3e, NiS<sub>2</sub>/ Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P shows the smallest charge transfer resistance (1.72  $\Omega$ ) with respect to pure NiS<sub>2</sub> (41.97  $\Omega$ ), NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.2</sub>-P (3.44  $\Omega$ ), NiS<sub>2</sub>/  $Fe_{0.8}$ -P (2.75  $\Omega$ ) and NiS<sub>2</sub>/ $Fe_{1.0}$ -P (3.75  $\Omega$ ), implying faster charge transfer in NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P. Notably, pure NiS<sub>2</sub> shows much larger charge transfer resistance than all NiS2/Fe-P nanospheres, indicating that the interfacial electronic interactions between NiS2 and Fe-P greatly accelerate electronic transport in NiS2/Fe-

The catalytic durability of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P was also estimated by the chronoamperometric test (CA) for 160 h, the chronopotentiometry (CP) test for 130 h and cyclic voltammetry (CV) for 2500 cycles (Fig. 3f and S13†). The CA curves (inset in Fig. 3f) show that the current density of  $NiS_2/Fe_{0.4}$ -P remains 92% after 160 h testing at an overpotential of 220 mV, and the LSV curves almost remain unchanged after 2500 cycles, indicating its excellent catalytic durability. The excellent catalytic durability of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P mainly attributes to the efficient charge transfer and mass diffusion process resulting from the abundant interfaces and electronic interaction in NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres.

In order to disclose the catalytic mechanism for the OER, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P after the long-term stability test was characterized by the SEM, TEM, XRD, XPS, ICP and Raman spectrum. It has been widely studied in many previous reports that transition metal-based sulfides, phosphides or carbides were always oxidized to transition metal-based hydroxides and/or oxyhydroxides during the OER process.<sup>52-54</sup> As shown in Fig. 4a, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P after long-term OER tests maintains the nanosphere structure, but many nanosheet layers appear on its surface, which can be confirmed by its TEM and HRTEM images (Fig. 4b and c). The XRD pattern in Fig. S14a† shows that several new peaks appeared after the OER test, in addition to the original diffraction peaks belonging to NiS<sub>2</sub> and Fe<sub>11</sub>(HPO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>8</sub>(-OH)<sub>6</sub> species. The peaks at  $\sim$ 43.3° and  $\sim$ 54.4° correspond to the (105) and (102) facets of NiOOH (JCPDS no. 06-0075) and FeOOH (JCPDS no. 13-0087), respectively. It illustrated the formation of Fe/Ni-OOH active sites on the surface of the NiS<sub>2</sub>/  $Fe_{0.4}$ -P electrocatalyst. Besides, a new peak at  $\sim$ 29.4° belonging

Fig. 4 (a) SEM, (b) TEM, (c) HRTEM and (d) EDS mapping for NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P after the chronoamperometric test for 160 h; (e) Ni 2p and (f) Fe 2p XPS spectra for NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P before and after the chronoamperometric test for 160 h.

to Fe(PO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub> (PDF #07-0184) proved the partial oxidation of P<sup>3+</sup> to P<sup>5+</sup>, which was explained in previous literature on phosphite based OER electrocatalysts.55 In addition, the peak at 26.3° for NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P after long-term OER tests is assigned to C produced by the carbon paper substrate. The Raman spectrum in Fig. S14b† also shows that the peaks at 471 and 558 cm<sup>-1</sup> belong to NiOOH further confirming the formation of NiOOH.<sup>56</sup>

XPS was employed to investigate the valence state change of the  $NiS_2/Fe_{0.4}$ -P catalysts after the long-time OER test. As for the Ni 2p spectra in Fig. 4e, the peaks for Ni<sup>2+</sup> disappeared and the peaks for Ni<sup>3+</sup> strengthened, indicating that the Ni<sup>2+</sup> on the surfaces was oxidized to Ni<sup>3+</sup>. The Fe 2p spectra also show that the peaks for Fe3+ strengthened, confirming the oxidation of Fe<sup>2+</sup>. These results indicate that the formed Fe/Ni-OOH layers on the reconstructed surfaces act as the real active species for the OER. Furthermore, the elemental mapping (Fig. 4d), EDS (Fig. S15†) and ICP (Table S4†) results demonstrate that the element compositions of the NiS2/Fe0.4-P catalyst remain unchanged after the long-time OER test. However, the content of the Fe, Ni, S, P elements decreased after the long-time OER test compared with the that in the original NiS2/Fe0.4-P catalyst. It is a common phenomenon in transition metal basedmaterials other than oxides (e.g. phosphides, chalcogenides, carbides, etc.) that the transformation of the materials surface into hydroxides and/or oxyhydroxides is often accompanied by a large loss of surface elements.54,57 And it has also been illustrated in the literature that this dissolution of cations or anions from the surface of electrocatalysts would be one of the key factors for enhancing the performance by promoting defects, vacancies or disorder at the surface. 55,57,58

Overall, the improved OER performance of the assynthesized NiS2/Fe-P nanospheres is attributed to the following respects: (1) the abundant interfaces in NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P could not only enrich the electroactive sites but also accelerate the electron transfer. (2) The interfacial electronic interactions between NiS2 and Fe0.4-P result in charge transfer from NiS2 to Fe<sub>0.4</sub>-P, which makes NiS<sub>2</sub> more acidic (Lewis acid), and thus H<sub>2</sub>O molecules (Lewis base) can be easily activated on NiS<sub>2</sub> through Lewis acid-base interactions. (3) The formed Fe/Ni-OOH layers on the reconstructed surfaces act as the real active species for the OER.

# Conclusions

In summary, NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P nanospheres with abundant interfaces were successfully fabricated and they served as electrocatalysts for the OER. The abundant interfaces in NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P could enrich the active sites and facilitate electronic transfer, which could be beneficial for electrocatalytic activity. Furthermore, charge transfer from NiS2 to Fe-P made the activation of H2O molecules (Lewis base) on NiS<sub>2</sub> (Lewis acid) more easily through Lewis acid-base interactions, thereby increasing the intrinsic activity of NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P for the OER. Consequently, the optimal NiS<sub>2</sub>/Fe-P exhibits outstanding OER performance with ultralow overpotentials of only 218 and 268 mV at current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a low Tafel slope of 47.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. Furthermore, it can achieve a relatively high current density of 800 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an overpotential of only 306 mV, as well as pretty good stability with the 160 h OER test, which is beneficial for practical applications.

# Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

# Acknowledgements

The authors acknowledge financial support from the National Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars (Grant No. 51825103), the Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51771188 and 51571189), the Major Program of Development Foundation of Hefei Center for Physical Science and Technology (Grant No. 2017FXZY002), the Anhui Provincial Natural Science Foundation (Grant No. 1708085QE92), and the Open Project of State Key Laboratory of Environment-friendly Energy Materials (Grant No. 19kfhg08).

# References

- 1 J. Shan, T. Ling, K. Davey, Y. Zheng and S. Z. Qiao, Adv. Mater., 2019, 31, 1900510-1900517.
- 2 D. Larcher and J. M. Tarascon, Nat. Chem., 2015, 7, 19-29.
- 3 S. Chu and A. Majumdar, Nature, 2012, 488, 294-303.
- 4 T. Zhang, Y. Sun, X. Li, X. Li, D. Liu, G. Liu, C. Li, H. J. Fan and Y. Li, Small Methods, 2019, 4, 1900709-1900717.
- 5 P. Cai, Y. Li, G. Wang and Z. Wen, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2018, 57, 3910-3915.
- 6 Y. Q. Sun, T. Zhang, X. Y. Li, Y. Bai, X. J. Lyu, G. Q. Liu, W. P. Cai and Y. Li, Adv. Mater. Interfaces, 2018, 5, 1800473-1800481.
- 7 L. Hang, T. Zhang, Y. Sun, D. Men, X. Lyu, Q. Zhang, W. Cai and Y. Li, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 19555-19562.
- 8 Z. Wen, S. Ci, Y. Hou and J. Chen, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2014, 53, 6496-6500.
- 9 H. F. Wang, C. Tang, B. Wang, B. Q. Li and Q. Zhang, Adv. Mater., 2017, 29, 1702327-1702335.
- 10 G. Li, X. Wang, J. Fu, J. Li, M. G. Park, Y. Zhang, G. Lui and Z. Chen, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55, 4977-4982.
- 11 D. Gao, Y. Zhang, Z. Zhou, F. Cai, X. Zhao, W. Huang, Y. Li, J. Zhu, P. Liu, F. Yang, G. Wang and X. Bao, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139, 5652-5655.
- 12 Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, P. Chen, M. Jaroniec and S. Z. Qiao, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139, 18093-18100.
- 13 K. Fominykh, P. Chernev, I. Zaharieva, J. Sicklinger, G. Stefanic, M. Döblinger, A. Muller, A. Pokharel, S. Bocklein, C. Scheu, T. Bein and D. Fattakhova-Rohlfing, ACS Nano, 2015, 9, 5180-5188.
- 14 C. Luan, G. Liu, Y. Liu, L. Yu, Y. Wang, Y. Xiao, H. Qiao, X. Dai and X. Zhang, ACS Nano, 2018, 12, 3875-3885.
- 15 D. Senthil Raja, X.-F. Chuah and S.-Y. Lu, Adv. Energy Mater., 2018, 8, 1801065-1801074.
- 16 J. Liu, Y. Zheng, Y. Jiao, Z. Wang, Z. Lu, A. Vasileff and S. Z. Qiao, Small, 2018, 14, 1704073-1704082.

- 17 K. Kordek, L. Jiang, K. Fan, Z. Zhu, L. Xu, M. Al-Mamun, Y. Dou, S. Chen, P. Liu, H. Yin, P. Rutkowski and H. Zhao, Adv. Energy Mater., 2019, 9, 1802936-1802944.
- 18 Y. Zhang, C. Wu, H. Jiang, Y. Lin, H. Liu, Q. He, S. Chen, T. Duan and L. Song, Adv. Mater., 2018, 30, 1707522-1707529.
- 19 L. Zhang, Y. Jia, G. Gao, X. Yan, N. Chen, J. Chen, M. T. Soo, B. Wood, D. Yang, A. Du and X. Yao, Chem, 2018, 4, 285–297.
- 20 A. Ray, S. Sultana, L. Paramanik and K. M. Parida, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2020, 8, 19196-19245.
- 21 J. Staszak-Jirkovsky, C. D. Malliakas, P. P. Lopes, N. Danilovic, S. S. Kota, K. C. Chang, B. Genorio, D. Strmenik, V. R. Stamenkovic, M. G. Kanatzidis and N. M. Markovic, Nat. Mater., 2016, 15, 197-203.
- 22 H. Zhang, L. Yu, T. Chen, W. Zhou and X. W. D. Lou, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2018, 28, 1807086-1807093.
- 23 S. Sultana, S. Mansingh and K. M. Parida, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2019, 7, 9145-9153.
- 24 Y. Liu, C. Xiao, P. Huang, M. Cheng and Y. Xie, Chem, 2018, 4, 1263-1283.
- 25 F. Dionigi, Z. Zeng, I. Sinev, T. Merzdorf, S. Deshpande, M. B. Lopez, S. Kunze, I. Zegkinoglou, H. Sarodnik, D. Fan, A. Bergmann, J. Drnec, J. F. Araujo, M. Gliech, D. Teschner, J. Zhu, W. X. Li, J. Greeley, B. R. Cuenya and P. Strasser, Nat. Commun., 2020, 11, 2522-2531.
- 26 Y. Dou, C.-T. He, L. Zhang, M. Al-Mamun, H. Guo, W. Zhang, Q. Xia, J. Xu, L. Jiang, Y. Wang, P. Liu, X.-M. Chen, H. Yin and H. Zhao, Cell Rep. Phys. Sci., 2020, 1, 100077-100090.
- 27 Y. Zhu, L. Peng, Z. Fang, C. Yan, X. Zhang and G. Yu, Adv. Mater., 2018, 30, 1706347-1706365.
- 28 T. Liu, A. Li, C. Wang, W. Zhou, S. Liu and L. Guo, Adv. Mater., 2018, 30, 1803590-1803598.
- 29 Q. Shao, P. Wang and X. Huang, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2019, 29, 1806419-1806441.
- 30 S. Zhao, R. Jin, H. Abroshan, C. Zeng, H. Zhang, S. D. House, E. Gottlieb, H. J. Kim, J. C. Yang and R. Jin, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139, 1077-1080.
- 31 C. Guo, Y. Zheng, J. Ran, F. Xie, M. Jaroniec and S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2017, 56, 8539-8543.
- 32 Y. Ni, L. Jin, L. Zhang and J. Hong, J. Mater. Chem., 2010, 20, 6430-6436.
- 33 F. Yuan, Y. Ni, L. Zhang, S. Yuan and J. Wei, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2013, 1, 8438-8444.
- 34 Q. Liang, L. Zhong, C. Du, Y. Luo, J. Zhao, Y. Zheng, J. Xu, J. Ma, C. Liu, S. Li and Q. Yan, ACS Nano, 2019, 13, 7975-
- 35 L. Shude, Y. Ying, W. Musheng, H. Kwan San, H. Kwun Nam, O. Chu-Ying and J. Seong Chan, Small, 2019, 15, 1803984-1803993.
- 36 S. H. Ye, Z. X. Shi, J. X. Feng, Y. X. Tong and G. R. Li, Angew. Chem., 2018, 130, 2702-2706.
- 37 Y. P. Zhu, T. Y. Ma, M. Jaroniec and S. Z. Qiao, Angew. Chem., 2017, 56, 1344-1348.
- 38 Y. Ruan, J. Jiang, H. Wan, X. Ji, L. Miao, L. Peng, B. Zhang, L. Lv and J. Liu, *I. Power Sources*, 2016, 301, 122-130.
- 39 Z. Xue, X. Li, Q. Liu, M. Cai, K. Liu, M. Liu, Z. Ke, X. Liu and G. Li, Adv. Mater., 2019, 31, 1900430-1900436.

- 40 Y. Yang, K. Zhang, H. Lin, X. Li, H. C. Chan, L. Yang and Q. Gao, *ACS Catal.*, 2017, 7, 2357–2366.
- 41 L. An, J. Feng, Y. Zhang, R. Wang, H. Liu, G.-C. Wang, F. Cheng and P. Xi, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2019, 29, 1805298– 1805308.
- 42 J. Yu, T. Zhang, Y. Sun, X. Li, X. Li, B. Wu, D. Men and Y. Li, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces*, 2020, **12**, 12783–12792.
- 43 J. Liu, D. Zhu, T. Ling, A. Vasileff and S.-Z. Qiao, *Nano Energy*, 2017, 40, 264–273.
- 44 C. Wei and Z. J. Xu, Small Methods, 2018, 2, 1800168-1800170.
- 45 K. A. Stoerzinger, M. Risch, B. Han and Y. Shao-Horn, *ACS Catal.*, 2015, 5, 6021–6031.
- 46 C. McCrory, S. Jung, I. M. Ferrer, S. M. Chatman, J. C. Peters and T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, 2015, **137**, 4347–4357.
- 47 Y. P. Zhu, T. Y. Ma, M. Jaroniec and S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2017, **56**, 1324.
- 48 J. Yin, J. Jin, H. Zhang, M. Lu, Y. Peng, B. Huang, P. Xi and C. H. Yan, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl., 2019, 58, 18676– 18682.
- 49 C. F. Du, Q. Liang, R. Dangol, J. Zhao, H. Ren, S. Madhavi and Q. Yan, *Nano-Micro Lett.*, 2018, **10**, 67–81.

- 50 M. R. Gao, Y. F. Xu, J. Jiang, Y. R. Zheng and S. H. Yu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, 2012, **134**, 2930–2933.
- 51 B. Liu, H. Q. Peng, C. N. Ho, H. Xue, S. Wu, T. W. Ng, C. S. Lee and W. Zhang, *Small*, 2017, **13**, 1701875–1701886.
- 52 Y. Jia, L. Zhang, G. Gao, H. Chen, B. Wang, J. Zhou, M. T. Soo, M. Hong, X. Yan, G. Qian, J. Zou, A. Du and X. Yao, Adv. Mater., 2017, 29, 1700017–1700024.
- 53 L. L. Feng, G. Yu, Y. Wu, G. D. Li, H. Li, Y. Sun, T. Asefa, W. Chen and X. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, 2015, 137, 14023– 14026.
- 54 L.-A. Stern, L. Feng, F. Song and X. Hu, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 2015, **8**, 2347–2351.
- 55 P. W. Menezes, C. Panda, S. Loos, F. Bunschei-Bruns, C. Walter, M. Schwarze, X. Deng, H. Dau and M. Driess, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 2018, 11, 1287–1298.
- 56 J. Lin, P. Wang, H. Wang, C. Li, X. Si, J. Qi, J. Cao, Z. Zhong, W. Fei and J. Feng, Adv. Sci., 2019, 6, 1900246–1900252.
- 57 X. Xu, F. Song and X. Hu, *Nat. Commun.*, 2016, 7, 12324-12330.
- 58 P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, A. Bergmann, P. Chernev, C. Walter, H. Dau, P. Strasser and M. Driess, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2016, 4, 10014–10022.