---
source: Zhang 等 - 2022 - In Situ Carbon Corrosion and Cu Leaching as a Strategy for Boosting Oxygen Evolution Reaction in Mul.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.218s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:35:14.862035Z
---

**Editor's Choice**

# **In Situ Carbon Corrosion and Cu Leaching as a Strategy for Boosting Oxygen Evolution Reaction in Multimetal Electrocatalysts**

*Jian Zhang, Thomas Quast, Wenhui He, Stefan Dieckhöfer, João R. C. Junqueira, Denis Öhl, Patrick Wilde, Daliborka Jambrec, Yen-Ting Chen, and Wolfgang Schuhmann\**

**The number of active sites and their intrinsic activity are key factors in designing high-performance catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). The synthesis, properties, and in-depth characterization of a homogeneous CoNiFeCu catalyst are reported, demonstrating that multimetal synergistic effects improve the OER kinetics and the intrinsic activity. In situ carbon corrosion and Cu leaching during the OER lead to an enhanced electrochemically active surface area, providing favorable conditions for improved electronic interaction between the constituent metals. After activation, the catalyst exhibits excellent activity with a low overpotential of 291.5 ± 0.5 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a Tafel slope of 43.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> . It shows superior stability compared to RuO2 in 1 m KOH, which is even preserved for 120 h at 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 7 m KOH at 50 °C. Single particles of this CoNiFeCu after their placement on nanoelectrodes combined with identical location transmission electron microscopy before and after applying cyclic voltammetry are investigated. The improved catalytic performance is due to surface carbon corrosion and Cu leaching. The proposed catalyst design strategy combined with the unique single-nanoparticle technique contributes to the development and characterization of high-performance catalysts for electrochemical energy conversion.**

J. Zhang, T. Quast, W. He, S. Dieckhöfer, J. R. C. Junqueira, D. Öhl, P. Wilde, D. Jambrec, W. Schuhmann Analytical Chemistry – Center for Electrochemical Sciences (CES) Faculty of Chemistry and Biochemistry Ruhr University Bochum Universitätsstr. 150, D-44780 Bochum, Germany E-mail: wolfgang.schuhmann@rub.de Y.-T. Chen Center for Solvation Science (ZEMOS) Ruhr-Universität Bochum D-44801 Bochum, Germany

© 2022 The Authors. Advanced Materials published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License, which permits use and distribution in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, the use is non-commercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202109108**

# **1. Introduction**

Electrochemical water electrolysis using electricity from renewable resources is promising to produce hydrogen (H2) as a clean fuel.[1,2] The abundance of noblemetal-based electrocatalysts, especially for overcoming the substantial overpotentials of the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), is insufficient for building the necessary devices for acidic electrolysis to satisfy the future demand.[3–5] Hence, despite uncountable publication in the last decade concerning highly active and highly stable OER electrocatalysts based on low-cost and earth-abundant elements for alkaline electrolysis, there is still room for improvement in terms of catalyst design.

A widely accepted mechanism for alkaline OER was proposed by Bockris and Otagawa.[6] During the initial step, MOH is formed by adsorption of OH− on metal sites, followed by the transformation of MOH to MO and further by hydroxylation to MOOH. MOOH reacts with

a second OH<sup>−</sup> to form adsorbed O2 and H2O. Finally, O2 is desorbed. The formation of the MOOH intermediate is considered to be the rate-limiting step.[7,8] A series of strategies, such as heteroatom doping,[9–12] interface engineering,[13–15] vacancy creation,[16–18] and synthetic strategies[19,20] is employed to improve the intrinsic catalytic OER activity. The most active catalysts were then optimized to enhance the kinetics of the hydroxylation reaction.[21–24] Recently, mixed multimetal catalysts were increasingly proposed assuming that synergistic effects between the different constituting metals directly modulate the electronic properties of the catalytic sites, thus facilitating, e.g. the MOOH formation, during the OER. Also, the initial OH− adsorption plays an important role in enhancing the OER performance since a higher number of OH− adsorption processes on exposed active sites provide favorable conditions for subsequent kinetic steps.[25,26] In situ electrochemical reconstruction was proposed as a strategy to change the microstructure and electronic properties of catalysts.[27–32] For example, in situ electrochemically-induced cation leaching, which is presently limited to delithiation processes,[33–35] supposedly

**2. Results and Discussions**

exposes more accessible active sites leading to improved catalytic activity.

We report the design, synthesis, and characterization of quaternary mixed-metal CoNiFeCu catalyst spheres with a homogeneous elements distribution and their application as OER electrocatalysts. Strong electronic interaction between the metals contributes to an optimized intrinsic OER activity of the catalyst. During subsequent activation under OER conditions, surface carbon corrosion and in situ leaching of Cu create accessible active surface sites and also modulate the electronic interaction between the remaining metals. We were able to unequivocally confirm surface carbon corrosion and Cu leaching and the impact on improving the OER using single nanoparticle electrochemistry.

**2.1. Catalyst Synthesis and Characterization**

The multimetal catalyst as well as the catalyst materials used for control experiments were obtained by a one-step hydrothermal reaction as schematically illustrated in **Figure 1**a. Hexamethylenetetramine (HMT) serves as C and N source and provides the necessary alkaline environment for metal precipitation, and the morphology of the as-synthesized catalysts was visualized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Binary metal catalyst (CoNi), ternary metal catalyst (CoNiCu and CoNiFe), and qua-

ternary metal catalyst (CoNiFeCu) were all obtained as spherical

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis strategy of the proposed multimetal catalysts. b) TEM images of CoNi (1:1), CoNiCu (1:1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), and CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5). c–f) EDX mapping of CoNi (1:1), CoNiCu (1:1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), and CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5).

particles (Figure 1b; and Figure S1 (Supporting Information)). The observed difference between internal and external contrast is due to the big spherical structure, which prevents the electron beam in the TEM to shine through the center of the particles. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) mapping images reveal the relatively homogeneous distribution of the constituting metals (Co, Ni, Fe, Cu) as well as of N and O (Figure 1c–f) throughout the whole spherical particles, while the peaks in the EDX spectra confirm the presence of the elements (Figure S2, Supporting Information). The carbon signal, which may be derived from the used organic binder material (Nafion) or the material of the TEM grid, was not further considered.

To unequivocally show the homogeneous distribution of all constituting elements at this scale, including C, within the spherical multimetal nanoparticle, we placed a single CoNi-FeCu nanoparticle on the surface of a carbon nanoelectrode and it will be further applied and discussed in Section 2.4. The obtained catalyst nanoparticle/carbon nanoelectrode assembly was then investigated with TEM-EDX mapping and line scan. Importantly, also C is uniformly distributed within the nanoparticle (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The atomic ratio of the metals in different samples was determined using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS; inset of Figure S2, Supporting Information). The molar content of the different metals is very close to the molar ratio of the initial metal precursors, which allows us to name the multimetal catalysts by the metals and the initial molar ratio of the precursor compounds, e.g., CoNiCuFe (1:1:1:0.5). The phase constitution was investigated by powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM). The XRD patterns (Figure S4, Supporting Information) contain peaks indexed to a mixture of Ni(OH)2·0.75 H2O (ISCD-38-0715) and Co2N (ISCD-72-1368). In the presence of other metals, a lower crystallinity or smaller particle size are signified by the broader peaks, as, e.g., seen for CoNiCuFe (1:1:1:0.5). For CoNiCu (1:1:1), the peaks near 20° can be indexed to Cu(OH)2 (ISCD-72-0140). The HR-TEM images of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) are consistent with the XRD characterization, showing lattice spacings of 0.234 and 0.266 nm, which are ascribed to the (011) and (100) plane of Ni(OH)2, and interplanar spacings of 0.217 and 0.312 nm, which are consistent with the values for Co2N(111) and Co2N(011) (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The high-resolution X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) of the Co 2p core level in CoNiCuFe (1:1:1:0.5) (Figure S6a, Supporting Information), were fitted with three components at binding energies of 780.3, 781.9, and 785.7 eV in the Co 2p3/2 spin–orbit. The former two peaks correspond to Co coordinated with OH and N, while the last is a satellite feature from Co2+. [32,36] The Ni 2p3/2 spectra presents a pair of peaks at 855.3 and 861.2 eV ascribed to Ni2<sup>+</sup> bonded with OH and corresponding shakeup satellites (Figure S6b, Supporting Information).[37] The Fe 2p spectrum was not fitted due to the possible overlap of the Co Auger peaks with Fe in this region (Figure S6c, Supporting Information)[38,39] to avoid inaccurate analysis in terms of the Fe properties in CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5). The two Cu 2p peaks at 932.5 and 952.5 eV correspond to Cu 2p3/2 and Cu 2p1/2, respectively, and because no obvious satellite peaks were observed, the existence of Cu+ is suggested (Figure S6d, Supporting Information).[40] The N 1s spectra deconvoluted into three componentsat 397.9, 398.9, and 400.2 eV, which are assigned to MN, CN, and NH bonds (Figure S6e, Supporting Information).[41] The three peaks at 530.5, 531.4, and 532.9 eV are ascribed to OH, O vacancies, and adsorbed O, respectively (Figure S6f, Supporting Information).[41,42] To investigate the possible chemical states of Fe in CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), the single metal Fe material was synthesized by following the same synthesis protocol. The obtained pure Fe material was then analyzed by XPS. As shown in Figure S7a (Supporting Information), in the Fe 2p3/2 spectra the peaks at 709.9 eV; 712:2 eV are assigned to Fe3<sup>+</sup>. Together with its corresponding satellite peak at 718.1 eV the features of Fe 2p spectra are consistent with Fe2O3. [43–45] The XPS results of the single Fe material indicate that Fe in CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) may also exist as Fe2O3. To further confirm this hypothesis, Raman spectroscopy was performed for CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) and pure Fe2O3 (Figure S7b, Supporting Information). The bands at 233, 288, and 541 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in the Raman spectra of CoNi-FeCu (1:1:1:0.5) correspond to pure Fe2O3, [46] which show that Fe in CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) exist as Fe2O3.

#### **2.2. OER Performance**

The OER activities of the multimetal catalysts were evaluated using rotating-disk voltammetry on glassy carbon electrodes (0.1256 cm<sup>2</sup> ) in purified 1 m KOH. RuO2 was evaluated under the same experimental conditions for comparison. The mass loading for all catalysts was ≈0.5 mg cm−<sup>2</sup> . For activation, the catalyst-modified electrodes were subjected to 32 cyclic voltammograms (CV) in the potential window from 1.03 to 1.53 V versus RHE at a scan rate of 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . **Figure 2**a shows the subsequent linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) of the multimetal catalysts together with that of RuO2. CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) shows the highest OER activity among all samples (see also the bar graph comparing the overpotential to attain a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in Figure S8, Supporting Information).

Catalysts with a higher number of constituting elements show a lower OER overpotential. CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) exhibits an overpotential of 291.5 ± 0.5 mV@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 compared with CoNiFe (1:1:1) (331.5 ± 6.5 mV@10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ), CoNiCu (1:1:1) (353.5 ± 3.5 mV@10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ), and CoNi (1:1) (366.5 ± 3.5 mV@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2).

The double-layer capacity (*C*dl) as a measure for the electrochemically active surface area was used to normalize the current density (Figure S9, Supporting Information), thus allowing the catalytic activity of the different catalysts to be compared more precisely. Even after normalization (Figure 2b), CoNi-FeCu(1:1:1:0.5) shows the highest OER activity compared with all other catalysts even surpassing RuO2. This is also reflected in the corresponding Tafel slopes (Figure S10, Supporting Information) of 43.9 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> for CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) which is substantially smaller than those of CoNiFe(1:1:1) (53.7 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ), CoNiCu (1:1:1) (83.4 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ), CoNi (1:1) (106.6 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ), and RuO2 (79.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ).

To evaluate the influence of the Cu content on the OER performance, we synthesized a series of quaternary catalysts with varying Cu content. CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) exhibits a lower overpotential and Tafel slope compared with CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:1) (294.5 ± 2.5 mV@10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , 65.4 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) and CoNiFeCu

**Figure 2.** a) Linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) of CoNi (1:1), CoNiCu (1:1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), RuO2, and bare RDE (GC). b) Double-layer capacitance normalized LSVs of CoNi (1:1), CoNiCu (1:1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), RuO2, and bare RDE (GC). c) LSVs of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) before and after 2000 CV cycles (the CVs were conducted between 1.2 and 1.7 V vs RHE at a scan rate of at 100 mV cm<sup>−</sup>2). d) Chronopotentiometric stability test of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) and RuO2 at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The inset in (d) shows the change in the potential difference between CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) and RuO2 in the course of the experiment. All shown measurements were conducted using 1 m KOH as the electrolyte; LSVs were recorded with a scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> .

(1:1:1:1.5) (327.5 ± 8.5 mV@10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , 89.5 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) (Figure S11a,b,d, Supporting Information). *C*dl normalized LSVs indicate that CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) and CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:1) have almost the same intrinsic OER activity (Figure S11c, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the OER activity of the quaternary metal catalyst CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) is comparable or even superior to recently reported non-noble-metal-based OER catalysts (Table S1, Supporting Information). Although the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) did not show a substantial improvement in the initial overpotential for OER compared with NiFe-based layered double hydroxides, which have been reported as the most efficient OER catalysts in alkaline media.[47,48] We demonstrate in the study a comparable active catalyst which shows a superior stability (see below stability test). As know, the Ni–Fe layered double hydroxides suffer from the structural and compositional changes during the stability test especially under highly alkaline conditions and at elevated temperatures, and thus lead to a drastic loss of their OER activity,[49,50] which are not true for the shown CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) catalyst.

We performed LSVs after each 8 activation CVs for all catalyst materials to further evaluate the activation process during the initial CVs. The changes in overpotential at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> after each 8 CVs are shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) exhibits the lowest OER overpotential during the activation process. For CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), CoNiFe (1:1:1), and CoNi (1:1:1), the overpotentials required to reach 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> decreased continuously after each 8 CVs, while CoNiCu (1:1:1) showed a comparatively stable OER performance. Compared to the overpotential at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> after 8 activation CVs, the overpotential after 32 activation CVs decreased by 42.8, 22.5, −0.3, and 40.6 mV for CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), CoNiFe (1:1:1), CoNiCu (1:1:1), and CoNi (1:1), respectively (Figure S13, Supporting Information).

The long-term stability of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) was first assessed by 2000 continuous CVs between 1.2 and 1.7 V versus RHE at a scan rate of 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and at an electrode rotation speed of 1600 rpm. The LSVs of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) at a scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> recorded before and after 2000 CVs are shown in Figure 2c. The two LSVs overlap, indicating the catalyst's excellent stability. The stability was further investigated by chronopotentiometry at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for 25 h in comparison with RuO2 (Figure 2d). A continuously decreasing potential was observed in the first 5 h for CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), suggesting activation and a continually improved OER activity, and then maintained stable for 25 h. In contrast, the RuO2 electrode exhibited a continuous deactivation shown by the increasingly anodic potential to maintain the current. The potential difference between CoNi-FeCu (1:1:1:0.5) and RuO2 became more prominent with time (inset Figure 2d). To further investigate the long-term stability at higher current densities, we modified Ni foam with the same

**Figure 3.** a) Chronopotentiometric stability test of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) on Ni foam at a current density of 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 7 m KOH and at 50 °C. b) Chronopotentiometric stability test of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) on Ni foam at a current density of 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 7 m KOH and at 50 °C in a flow-through electrolyzer. Current densities were normalized by geometric area of NF.

mass loading of the catalyst since glassy carbon is not suitable as an electrode material in alkaline electrolytes in the employed potential window due to carbon corrosion. No visible degradation was observed in chronopotentiometric measurements after 25 h at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 (Figure S14, Supporting Information), which is further confirmed by the slight increase in overpotential of 30 mV as seen in the LSVs before and after the stability test (Figure S14, Supporting Information, and inset Figure S14, Supporting Information). At even higher current densities of 300 and 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , the increase in overpotential was only 19 mV after applying each individual current density for 7 h in a continuous measurement (Figure S15 and its inset, Supporting Information).

The stability was further investigated at conditions closer to industrial electrolysis, namely at a temperature of 50 °C, in 7 m KOH, and at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 (**Figure 3**a).[51] The OER potential fluctuated at a ultralow range of 0.025 V versus Ag/AgCl/3 m KCl for 50 h, indicating the surprising stability of the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) OER catalyst at these harsh conditions. In a nonoptimized flow-through electrolyzer (Figure S16, Supporting Information), we increased the current density under the same conditions to 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure 3b). An average potential of 0.546 V versus Ag/AgCl/3 m KCl was recorded initially; however, the signal was very noisy due to the vigorous release of O2 bubbles. The overpotential increased by only 7.7% from 0.546 to 0.588 V after 120 h continuous operation in the flow-through electrolyzer. CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) exhibits superior corrosion resistance, high-temperature, and high KOH concentration catalytic OER stability.

The Faradaic efficiency (FE), i.e., the ratio of the quantity of the generated O2 and the transferred charge during the electrolysis, was determined in both 1 m KOH (25 °C) and 7 m KOH (50 °C) by gas chromatography (GC). The FE and amount of generated O2 in 1 m KOH at 100, 200, and 300 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> are shown in Figure S17a–c (Supporting Information). The FE increased from 75.8% to 91.9% in the first 90 min and to 97.5% until 120 min at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 (Figure S17a, Supporting Information). The initial relatively low FE is attributed to carbon corrosion and phase transitions at the catalyst surface. In the following measurements at current densities of 200 and 300 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure S17b,c, Supporting Information), the FE for the OER reached close to 100%. Similar results were obtained in 7 m KOH at 50 °C (Figure S17d–g, Supporting Information) demonstrating the activity and stability of CoNi-FeCu (1:1:1:0.5) for the OER after initial activation (Figure S17h, Supporting Information).

**Figure 4.** a–c) Overlapping EDX elemental mapping of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) before, after 32 CVs, and after 2000 CVs (The CVs were conducted between 1.2 and 1.7 V vs RHE at a scan rate of 100 mV cm<sup>−</sup>2). d–f) EDX line scans before, after 32 CVs, and after 2000 CVs (the CVs were conducted between 1.2 and 1.7 V vs RHE at a scan rate of 100 mV cm<sup>−</sup>2). g–i) ICP-MS of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) before, after 2 h, and after 20 h chronopotentiometry at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

#### **2.3. Understanding the OER Performance of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5)**

XPS results of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) were compared to those of the control materials. As shown in the high-resolution spectra of Ni 2p (Figure S18a, Supporting Information), the main Ni 2p3/2 peak in CoNiCu (1:1:1) was at 855.7 eV, for CoNiFe (1:1:1) at 854.9 eV, and for CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) at 855.3 eV, representing a shift in the binding energy of 0.7, −0.1, 0.3 eV, respectively, compared with the Ni 2p3/2 main peak in CoNi (1:1) (855.0 eV). Interestingly, the Ni 2p3/2 peak in the samples containing Cu exhibited a positive binding energy shift suggesting the modulation of the electronic properties by doping with Cu. The degree of positive binding energy shift is much lower for quaternary metals catalysts than that for the ternary CoNiCu (1:1:1) due to the double modulation of the electronic properties by Fe and Cu. A similar positive binding energy shift can also be observed for the Co 2p3/2 main peak in quaternary and ternary metals catalysts (Figure S18b, Supporting Information) compared to CoNi (1:1). In agreement with previously reported results,[10,12] the observed positive binding energy shift is beneficial for the OER activity due to the optimized OER kinetics. Thus, multimetal synergistic effects caused by electronic interactions contribute to the improved OER performance of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5).

To gain insight into the activation process of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), TEM, TEM/EDX, and ICP-MS measurements were performed with samples before and after electrochemical activation (**Figure 4**; and Figure S19, Supporting Information). The samples which were scratched from the RDE after 32 CVs at 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> show a slightly changed spherical structure, and a hole was generated in the center of the particle compared to the pristine sample (Figure 4a,b). For the samples scratched from the RDE after 2000 CVs (100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> ), the structural changes became more pronounced (Figure 4c). EDX line scans were performed to visualize the elemental distribution in the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) particle after different numbers of CVs (Figure 4d). The smooth curves indicate homogeneous element distribution in the spherical particle before OER measurements. The EDX line scan after 32 CVs (Figure 4e) shows an increased O content

and decreased N content, corresponding to the changed EDX element intensity (Figure S20, Supporting Information).

The decreased N-content is ascribed to the conversion of metal nitride to metal oxide/hydroxide in the OER potential window in alkaline electrolyte, which is consistent with the XPS survey spectrum before and after OER measurement (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Interestingly, we also found a relatively decreased content of Cu after 32 CVs, and a further decreased Cu content after 2000 CVs (Figure 4f). To further confirm the changes in Cu content, the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) was scratched off from the RDE after 2 h, i.e., during catalyst activation, and after 20 h chronopotentiometry at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> to quantify the metal content by ICP-MS (Figure 4g–i). The molar percentage of Cu decreased from initially 18.4% to 11.1%, and further to 6.4% during the chronopotentiometry, accompanied by an unchanged percentage of the other three metals, indicating that Cu leaching is highly related to the activation and in turn to the stability of the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) catalyst. Overall, We suppose that the superior OER performance of the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) is due to the coupling of multimetal synergistic effects with the dynamic surface activation triggered by Cu leaching.

### **2.4. Nanoelectrochemistry of Single CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) Particles**

To visualize the dynamic surface activation and investigate its effect on the intrinsic activity of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), we examined the structural evolution of a single CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) particle was placed on a carbon nanoelectrode. Before the fabrication of single particles at a nanoelectrode assembly, the morphology and size distribution of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) were investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (Figure S22, Supporting Information), the formed particles of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) with a similar spherical structure have a size distribution concentrated in the range of 0.45–0.95 µm. Hence, the single spherical particle with specific size could be seen as the representative structure for further investigation. To prepare this assembly, a FIB processed carbon nanoelectrode is employed as the platform for placing single particle on its surface (Figure S23 Supporting Information). A robotic micromanipulator arm inside the SEM was used, which allows the precise placement of the particle onto the tip of the carbon nanoelectrode (**Figure 5**a).[52–54] Notably, the surface functionalization on the carbon nanoelectrode contribute to an initial tight binding which after the carbonization at the heat-treatment procedure, leads to a favorable electrically contact between the carbon nanoelectrode and the single particle, which can effectively prevent the carbon corrosion of carbon nanoelectrode surface (Figure S24, Supporting Information).[55] As shown in the SEM image for Figure S25 (Supporting Information), the Carbon nanoelectrodes (CNE) modified with a single CoNiFeCu(1:1:1:0.5) particle were evaluated concerning their OER performance by CVs at a scan rate of 200 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in 1 m KOH (Figure S26, Supporting Information). The CoNiFeCu(1:1:1:0.5)@CNE nanoassemblies showed a substantial catalytic activation for the OER with an increasing number of CV cycles, which is consistent with the results obtained for particle ensembles in the RDE measurements shown before. The nanoassemblies exhibits a size-dependent OER current response (Figure S26c, Supporting Information), however, after normalization by the corresponding geometric surface area, the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5)@CNE nanoassemblies showed an identical OER response, suggesting the electrochemical reproducibility of the nanoassemblies and the particle size does not have a substantial impact on the intrinsic electrocatalytic activity (Figure S26d, Supporting Information). Due to the fast diffusion of the formed O2 to bulk solution and the mitigation of local pH changes, the proposed nanoparticle-on-the-nanoelectrode approach determines the intrinsic catalyst activity. Moreover, using a specifically developed TEM holder, identical location TEM becomes accessible, allowing investigation of the structural evolution of the same catalyst particle before and after electrochemical measurements. TEM images before and after different numbers of CVs are compared in Figure S27 (Supporting Information). The pristine particle exhibits small attached catalyst particles and partly amorphous carbon covered surfaces (Figure 5b,c; and Figure S27a–c, Supporting Information). With an increasing number of CVs, the surface became smoother, and the initially carbon-covered surfaces became exposed (Figure S27d–i, Supporting Information), as also supported by the high-resolution TEM images of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5)@CNE before and after the OER. These HR-TEM results confirm the suggested carbon corrosion during CV activation (Figure 5d–g), which also explains the initially low FE in Figure S17a (Supporting Information).

EDX elemental mapping of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5)@CNE after different numbers of CVs was performed (Figure 5h; and Figure S28a, Supporting Information). Cu, O, and the other elements are distributed homogeneously in the pristine CoNi-FeCu (1:1:1:0.5)@CNE nanoassembly. After 5 CVs, the spherical structure is preserved (Figure S28b, Supporting Information), but a noticeable change in the distribution of Cu is observed (Figure 5i). Cu was depleted from the bottom-left part of the particle indicating the leaching of Cu during the activation CVs. Simultaneously, the brighter part in the bottom-left of the spherical particle suggests an increased O content (Figure 5i). Considering OH− the only source of O, the increased O content can be attributed to the formation of MOOH species on the catalyst surface. With an increasing number of CV cycles, the leaching of Cu and the increased content of O becomes more pronounced (Figure 5j) than that for the other elements (Figure S28c, Supporting Information). These results were further evidenced by the noticeable nonhomogeneous distribution of Cu and O elements in the mixed elements mapping images (Figure 5k–m). EDX elements line scans along the particle were performed (Figure 5n). Before the CV activation, the elements are homogenously distributed, while already after 5 CVs Cu was depleted and O enriched (Figure 5o). This became more pronounced with increasing number of CVs (Figure 5p). If the EDX line scan was performed in a different direction through the particle, the localized correlation between Cu and O is not seen (Figure S29, Supporting Information), suggesting that Cu leaching is starting at a certain location at the nanoparticle eventually leading to holes as observed in Figure 4b,c. The simultaneous appearance of Cu leaching and the enrichment

**Figure 5.** a) Schemes of the various stages involved in the study of CoNiFeCu(1:1:1:0.5)@CNE nanoassemblies. b–g) High-resolution TEM images of a single CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) particle before the activation CVs (b,c); after 5 CVs (d,e); and after 15 CVs (f,g). h–j) EDX elemental mapping of Cu and O of the single CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) particle before CVs, after 5 CVs, and after 15 CVs. k–m) EDX elemental mapping of the single CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) particle before the CVs, after 5 CVs, and after 15 CVs. n–p) EDX line scans of a single CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) particle before the CVs, after 5 CVs, and after 15 CVs.

of O suggests that the partial leaching of Cu seems to benefit adsorption of OH− and in turn the formation of metal oxyhydroxides, contributing to the enhanced electrocatalytic OER activity.[6]

#### **2.5. The Role of Cu Leaching in Accelerating the OER Kinetics**

The Tafel slopes for the OER over CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5), CoNiCu (1:1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), and CoNiFe (1:1) after different

**Figure 6.** a–c) Change of Tafel slope, anodic peak position, and the anodic peak current densities of CoNi (1:1), CoNiCu (1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), and CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) with the number of activation CVs. d) O 1s XPS of pristine samples (bottom) and after 2 h chronopotentiometry (top) at a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in 1 m KOH.

numbers of activation CVs were analyzed (Figure S30, Supporting Information). In terms of the OER, the formation of oxyhydroxides is considered the rate-limiting step.[8] The Tafel slopes for the OER at CoNi (1:1) do not significantly change with the number of activation CVs (**Figure 6**a). CoNiCu (1:1:1) exhibits smaller Tafel slopes, indicating faster kinetics compared to CoNi (1:1). Also, the Tafel slopes for CoNiCu(1:1:1) slightly decrease from 92.3 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> after 8 CVs to 81.9 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> after 32 CVs. This slightly accelerating kinetics is attributed to an improved OH− adsorption caused by Cu leaching; however, since OH− adsorption is not rate-limiting, the impact on the overall reaction kinetics is limited. The lower Tafel slopes of CoNiFe (1:1:1) compared to CoNiCu (1:1:1) after activation CVs suggest a further acceleration of the OER due to Fe-doping most likely by a facilitated oxyhydroxide formation induced by strong electronic interaction between Fe and other metals (Co, Ni).[56–58] The Tafel slopes of the CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) catalyst is the smallest after 8 activation CVs, exhibiting the most obvious decrease with the increasing number of activation CVs. Taken together, the activation of CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) can be ascribed to the initially OH− adsorption, due to the Cu leaching-induced exposure of surface metal sites, followed by the facilitated oxyhydroxide formation invoked by Fe.

Furthermore, we evaluated the changes of the position of the oxidation prepeak in the CVs indicative for M2+ to M3<sup>+</sup> oxidation (M = Co, Ni) under formation of the corresponding oxyhydroxides (Figure S31, Supporting Information), considering that for Fe no redox features are visible in this potential range. The anodic peak for CoNiFe (1:1:1) is located at a lower potential compared to CoNi (1:1), indicating the role of Fe-doping in facilitating the conversion of M2+ to M3+ (Figure 6b). The M2<sup>+</sup> to M3<sup>+</sup> oxidation peak shifts to more negative potentials with the number of activation CVs in the case of CoNiFe (1:1:1). In contrast, the M2+ to M3<sup>+</sup> oxidation peaks exhibit a positive potential shift for the catalyst material containing Cu (CoNiCu (1:1:1)), suggesting increasingly difficult hydroxylation. However, in the case of the quaternary CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) catalyst, the M2+ to M3<sup>+</sup> oxidation peaks underwent a negative shift with an increasing number of activation CVs due to acceleration of

the surface hydroxylation due to the presence of Fe and the continuous Cu leaching. Furthermore, the charge under the M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to M<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> oxidation peak can be used to estimate the number of accessible active metal sites at the catalyst surface. Importantly, CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) and CoNiCu (1:1:1) exhibits a much higher charge after 8 activation CVs compared to CoNiFe (1:1:1) and CoNi (1:1), suggesting improved accessibility of the metal sites exposed at the surface (Figure 6c). Notably, also the samples without Cu, namely CoNi (1:1) and CoNiFe(1:1:1), show increasing charges with ongoing activation, which can be attributed to carbon corrosion and liberation of the surface. Considering the much higher charge observed in samples with Cu, we hypothesize that Cu leaching further contributes to exposing metal sites even inside the spherical particle. To further validate these hypotheses, the samples before and after OER at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 2 h in 1 m KOH were examined by XPS. The O 1s XP spectrum (Figure 6d) shows a new peak after 2 h corresponding to lattice O, suggesting the formation of a MOOH-like surface structure in all samples.[11,32] The content of lattice O in CoNi (1:1), CoNiCu (1:1:1), CoNiFe (1:1:1), CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) are 33.3%, 26.6%, 42.3%, and 47.7%, respectively. The lowest lattice O content in CoNiCu (1:1:1) indicates that the presence of Cu is not responsible for the hydroxylation reaction. CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) has the highest lattice O content after 2 h OER, which is ascribed to both the Cu leaching and the impact of Fe on boosting surface hydroxylation.

**3. Conclusion**

The multimetal catalyst CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) was designed for OER in alkaline media. By utilizing the multimetal synergistic effect together with initial corrosion of amorphous carbon as well as Cu leaching and the impact of Fe on the surface, hydroxylation allows optimization of the intrinsic catalytic OER activity. CoNiFeCu (1:1:1:0.5) exhibits a low overpotential for the OER of 291.5 ± 0.5 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 and a Tafel slope of 43.9 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> on glassy carbon electrode in 1 m KOH. Moreover, this catalyst exhibits surprising long-term stability for 120 h at 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 in 7 m KOH at 50 °C, suggesting its potential practical application under industrial conditions. The in situ carbon corrosion, the Cu leaching design strategy, and the nanoelectrode characterization technique contribute to the developing high-performance catalysts for energy conversion.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This research was funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) within the collaborative research center/transregio 247 "Heterogeneous Oxidation Catalysis in the Liquid Phase" TRR 247 [388390466] as well as under Germanys Excellence Strategy—EXC 2033-390677874—RESOLV. The project has received funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation program (Grant Agreement CasCat [833408]). J.Z. acknowledges the Chinese Scholarship Council for a Ph.D. fellowship. This work was supported by the "Center for Solvation Science ZEMOS" funded by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research BMBF and by the Ministry of Culture and Research of Nord Rhine-Westphalia. The authors are grateful to Martin Trautmann for ICP-MS measurements and to Dr. Sabine Seisel for PXRD measurements.

Open access funding enabled and organized by Projekt DEAL.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

carbon corrosion, in situ Cu leaching, multimetal electrocatalysts, nanoelectrodes, oxygen evolution reaction

> Received: November 10, 2021 Revised: January 11, 2022 Published online: February 17, 2022

- [1] B. M. Hunter, H. B. Gray, A. M. Müller, *Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 14120.
- [2] J. S. Kim, B. Kim, H. Kim, K. Kang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1702774.
- [3] J. Song, C. Wei, Z.-F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196.
- [4] X. Tian, P. Zhao, W. Sheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808066.
- [5] Z. Xue, K. Liu, Q. Liu, Y. Li, M. Li, C.-Y. Su, N. Ogiwara, H. Kobayashi, H. Kitagawa, M. Liu, G. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5048.
- [6] J. O. Bockris, T. Otagawa, *J. Phys. Chem.* **1983**, *87*, 2960.
- [7] A. Bergmann, T. E. Jones, E. M. Moreno, D. Teschner, P. Chernev, M. Gliech, T. Reier, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 711.
- [8] J. Rossmeisl, Z.-W. Qu, H. Zhu, G.-J. Kroes, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2007**, *607*, 83.
- [9] W. He, H.-M. Gao, R. Shimoni, Z.-Y. Lu, I. Hod, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *2*, 2138.
- [10] J. Masa, S. Piontek, P. Wilde, H. Antoni, T. Eckhard, Y.-T. Chen, M. Muhler, U.-P. Apfel, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *6*, 1900796.
- [11] J. Masa, I. Sinev, H. Mistry, E. Ventosa, M. de La Mata, J. Arbiol, M. Muhler, B. Roldan Cuenya, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700381.
- [12] J. Masa, P. Weide, D. Peeters, I. Sinev, W. Xia, Z. Sun, C. Somsen, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1502313.
- [13] J.-X. Feng, S.-H. Ye, H. Xu, Y.-X. Tong, G.-R. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 4698.
- [14] X. Luo, P. Ji, P. Wang, R. Cheng, D. Chen, C. Lin, J. Zhang, J. He, Z. Shi, N. Li, S. Xiao, S. Mu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903891.
- [15] H. Xu, J. Cao, C. Shan, B. Wang, P. Xi, W. Liu, Y. Tang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 8654.

- [16] Z. Cai, Y. Bi, E. Hu, W. Liu, N. Dwarica, Y. Tian, X. Li, Y. Kuang, Y. Li, X.-Q. Yang, H. Wang, X. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1701694.
- [17] Y. Liu, C. Ma, Q. Zhang, W. Wang, P. Pan, L. Gu, D. Xu, J. Bao, Z. Dai, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900062.
- [18] Z. Xiao, Y. Wang, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Wei, C.-L. Dong, J. Ma, S. Shen, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 2563.
- [19] Z.-X. Cai, Z.-L. Wang, J. Kim, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1804903.
- [20] J. Zhang, X. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zeng, X. Cheng, Y. Wang, W. Tu, M. Pan, *Nanoscale* **2018**, *10*, 11997.
- [21] W. H. Choi, K.-H. Kim, H. Lee, J. W. Choi, D. G. Park, G. H. Kim, K. M. Choi, J. K. Kang, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2100044.
- [22] B. Wang, K. Zhao, Z. Yu, C. Sun, Z. Wang, N. Feng, L. Mai, Y. Wang, Y. Xia, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 2200.
- [23] Y. Wang, L. Yan, K. Dastafkan, C. Zhao, X. Zhao, Y. Xue, J. Huo, S. Li, Q. Zhai, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006351.
- [24] L. Zhang, W. Cai, N. Bao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2100745.
- [25] R. Christensen, H. A. Hansen, C. F. Dickens, J. K. Nørskov, T. Vegge, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 24910.
- [26] G. Li, Q. Yang, J. Rao, C. Fu, S.-C. Liou, G. Auffermann, Y. Sun, C. Felser, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1907791.
- [27] X. Liu, R. Guo, K. Ni, F. Xia, C. Niu, B. Wen, J. Meng, P. Wu, J. Wu, X. Wu, L. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2001136.
- [28] X. Liu, J. Meng, J. Zhu, M. Huang, B. Wen, R. Guo, L. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**.
- [29] G. Chen, Z. Hu, Y. Zhu, B. Gu, Y. Zhong, H.-J. Lin, C.-T. Chen, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1804333.
- [30] A. Sivanantham, P. Ganesan, A. Vinu, S. Shanmugam, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 463.
- [31] B. Zhang, K. Jiang, H. Wang, S. Hu, *Nano Lett.* **2019**, *19*, 530.
- [32] W. Zheng, M. Liu, L. Y. S. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 81.
- [33] S. W. Lee, C. Carlton, M. Risch, Y. Surendranath, S. Chen, S. Furutsuki, A. Yamada, D. G. Nocera, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 16959.
- [34] Z. Lu, H. Wang, D. Kong, K. Yan, P.-C. Hsu, G. Zheng, H. Yao, Z. Liang, X. Sun, Y. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4345.
- [35] S. Zhang, S. Gu, Y. Wang, C. Liang, Y. Yu, L. Han, S. Zheng, N. Zhang, X. Liu, J. Zhou, J. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 736.
- [36] X. Lu, N. Sakai, D. Tang, X. Li, T. Taniguchi, R. Ma, T. Sasaki, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 33083.
- [37] D. Zhu, J. Liu, L. Wang, Y. Du, Y. Zheng, K. Davey, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nanoscale* **2019**, *11*, 3599.
- [38] C. Fettkenhauer, X. Wang, K. Kailasam, M. Antonietti, D. Dontsova, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 21227.

- [39] A. T. Kozakov, A. G. Kochur, A. V. Nikolskii, V. L. Sukhorukov, H. Huckfeldt, D. Holzinger, A. Gaul, A. Ehresmann, *J. Appl. Phys.* **2018**, *124*, 155301.
- [40] X. Zhang, X. Cui, Y. Sun, K. Qi, Z. Jin, S. Wei, W. Li, L. Zhang, W. Zheng, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 745.
- [41] H. Sun, C. Tian, G. Fan, J. Qi, Z. Liu, Z. Yan, F. Cheng, J. Chen, C.-P. Li, M. Du, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910596.
- [42] J.-C. Dupin, D. Gonbeau, P. Vinatier, A. Levasseur, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2000**, *2*, 1319.
- [43] H. Lv, H. Zhao, T. Cao, L. Qian, Y. Wang, G. Zhao, *J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem.* **2015**, *400*, 81.
- [44] A. Kleiman-Shwarsctein, Y.-S. Hu, A. J. Forman, G. D. Stucky, E. W. McFarland, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2008**, *112*, 15900.
- [45] Y. Cong, M. Chen, T. Xu, Y. Zhang, Q. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2014**, *147*, 733.
- [46] P. Kumar, H. No-Lee, R. Kumar, *J. Mater. Sci: Mater. Electron.* **2014**, *25*, 4553.
- [47] F. Song, X. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4477.
- [48] S. Yin, W. Tu, Y. Sheng, Y. Du, M. Kraft, A. Borgna, R. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1705106.
- [49] C. Andronescu, S. Seisel, P. Wilde, S. Barwe, J. Masa, Y.-T. Chen, E. Ventosa, W. Schuhmann, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2018**, *24*, 13773.
- [50] R. Chen, S.-F. Hung, D. Zhou, J. Gao, C. Yang, H. Tao, H. B. Yang, L. Zhang, L. Zhang, Q. Xiong, H. M. Chen, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903909.
- [51] M. Carmo, D. L. Fritz, J. Mergel, D. Stolten, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2013**, *38*, 4901.
- [52] P. Wilde, T. Quast, H. B. Aiyappa, Y.-T. Chen, A. Botz, T. Tarnev, M. Marquitan, S. Feldhege, A. Lindner, C. Andronescu, W. Schuhmann, *ChemElectroChem* **2018**, *5*, 3083.
- [53] T. Quast, H. B. Aiyappa, S. Saddeler, P. Wilde, Y.-T. Chen, S. Schulz, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3576.
- [54] H. B. Aiyappa, P. Wilde, T. Quast, J. Masa, C. Andronescu, Y.-T. Chen, M. Muhler, R. A. Fischer, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 8927.
- [55] S. Möller, S. Barwe, J. Masa, D. Wintrich, S. Seisel, H. Baltruschat, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 1585.
- [56] S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu, S. Noda, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *80*, 105514.
- [57] M. Bajdich, M. García-Mota, A. Vojvodic, J. K. Nørskov, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 13521.
- [58] B.-J. Kim, E. Fabbri, D. F. Abbott, X. Cheng, A. H. Clark, M. Nachtegaal, M. Borlaf, I. E. Castelli, T. Graule, T. J. Schmidt, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 5231.