---
source: Zhang 等 - 2022 - Implanting an Electron Donor to Enlarge the d–p Hybridization of High‐Entropy (Oxy)hydroxide A Nove.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.202s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:35:07.641281Z
---

# **Implanting an Electron Donor to Enlarge the d–p Hybridization of High-Entropy (Oxy)hydroxide: A Novel Design to Boost Oxygen Evolution**

*Lingjie Zhang,\* Weiwei Cai, Ningzhong Bao,\* and Hui Yang*

**High-entropy (HE) electrocatalysts are becoming a research hotspot due to their interesting "cocktail effect" and have great potential for tailored catalytic properties. However, it is still a great challenge to illustrate their inherent catalytic mechanism for the "cocktail effect", and there is also a paucity of quantitative descriptors to characterize the specific catalytic activity and give logical design strategies for HE systems. Herein, the unexpected activation of all metal sites in HE Cu–Co–Fe–Ag–Mo (oxy)hydroxides for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is reported, and it is found that metal–oxygen d–p hybridization, as an effective descriptor, can indicate the intrinsic activity of each metal site. According to the quantitative hybridization, introducing an electron donor (e.g., Ag) is raised and verified to reinforce the electrocatalytic activity of the HE system. Consequently, Ag-decorated Co–Cu–Fe–Ag–Mo (oxy)hydroxide (Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH) electrocatalysts are constructed by an electrochemical reconstruction method, and their OER performances are thoroughly characterized. The Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH is verified with a low overpotential (270 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> ) and a small Tafel slope (35.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ), as well as good electrochemical stability. The favorable activity of the electron donor and underlying synergistic "cocktail effect" are demonstrated and disclosed. This work opens up a new strategy to guide the design/fabrication of advanced HE electrocatalysts.**

**1. Introduction**

In order to eliminate the negative environmental influence brought by industrialization, urbanization, and the subsequent overconsumption of fossil fuels, the concept of reducing the use of fossil fuels and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions has been

L. Zhang, W. Cai, H. Yang State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials School of Materials Science and Engineering Zhejiang University Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310027, P. R. China E-mail: zhanglingjie@zju.edu.cn

N. Bao State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering College of Chemical Engineering Nanjing Tech University

Nanjing, Jiangsu 210009, P. R. China E-mail: nzhbao@njtech.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202110511.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202110511**

increasingly accepted and planned by a growing number of countries to achieve peak carbon emission and eventually carbon neutrality. Renewable energy technologies, therefore, have been drawing considerable attention and developed by leaps and bounds.[1–3] The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is the fundamental process in several renewable energy technologies including water splitting, fuel cells, and metal–air batteries, and has been considered as a core issue in the production of green energy carriers, while OER is also the bottleneck due to its intrinsically sluggish four-electron transfer process.[4–6] In this regard, developing efficient electrocatalysts to boost OER kinetics is highly demanded.

Typically, to replace noble metal (Ru or Ir) catalysts, first-row transition metal oxides, (oxy)hydroxides, and hydroxides are promising alternative electrocatalysts for the OER.[6–8] Meanwhile, diverse strategies have been continuously proposed to raise their catalytic activity and corresponding catalysts have been fabricated.[9–13] One of

the most effective ways is to introduce high-entropy (HE) design to trigger electrocatalytic sites with highly efficient OER kinetics, for which the highly disordered structural characteristics and random distribution of multicompositions in HE can provide correlated possibilities for tailoring of catalytic properties.[14,15] Especially, the HE materials are characterized by distinguished and interesting cocktail effects from conventional materials, implying enhancement of certain properties beyond prediction by the rule of mixture.[16–20] Based on the rule of mixture, ternary (oxy) hydroxide with optimal OER performance has been successfully designed and fabricated via energetics-based interpolation method,[10,21] but the cocktail effect of HE and design strategies for HE catalysts with the characteristic of four or five principle elements are still currently under-researched and not clear due to its highly increased complexity. So far, the typical DFT calculations of adsorption energetics for HE catalysts usually define Co or Ni site in HE catalysts as the active site consistent with the common understanding in the literature,[22–25] while the contribution of other metal sites is ignored chronically. Although descriptors concerning

the four-electron transfer process, including orbital occupancy close to unity,[26] charge-transfer energy[27] and metal– oxygen covalency,[28] have been widely used to illustrate the mechanism and help the development of conventional OER catalysts, there is a paucity of studies that directly address these issues of critical importance for HE catalysts. Thus, understanding the underlying mechanism and identifying the real active sites of HE catalysts are highly important for the development of efficient and robust OER electrocatalysts and help to give a clear and simplified guideline for the design of desirable components and structures.

Herein, we first conduct density functional theory (DFT) calculations for a newly raised Co–Cu–Fe–Ag–Mo (oxy) hydroxide HE catalyst to theoretically confirm the OER activity of each metal site. Unexpectedly, the activation of all metal sites, which leads to the cocktail effect of enhanced OER performance in this HE model, can be clearly revealed by the calculated adsorption energetics. The DFT results suggest the great activity of Ag site with a low limiting energy barrier of 1.574 eV corresponding to relevant overpotential (*η*) of 0.344 V (vs RHE) in CoCuFeAgMoOOH, while the rest of metal sites also show theoretical overpotentials (0.475 V for Co site, 0.427 V for Cu site, 0.453 V for Fe site, and 0.503 V for Mo site) comparable to that of Ag site, which is much lower than the theoretical value of Co site in pristine CoOOH under the same calculation details (limiting energy barrier of 2.230 eV, relevant *η* of 1.000 V).[10,24] Meanwhile, a positive correlation of metal–oxygen hybridization for each metal site with the OER activity is also demonstrated, revealing hybridization can be an effective descriptor to indicate the specific electrocatalytic activity of different metal sites in the HE system. Significantly, according to the above quantitative hybridization theory, metal nanoparticles or clusters (Ag nanoparticles in this paper) with higher Fermi levels are raised as electron donors to promote the hybridization and further boost the OER performance. In line with the calculated adsorption energetics, decorating CoCuFeAgMoOOH model with Ag cluster is proven to further decrease the reaction energy barrier of all metal sites in accordance with the prediction, and the Ag site in Ag cluster is unexpectedly defined as the comparable active site. Accordingly, a new quinary Co–Cu–Fe–Ag–Mo (oxy)hydroxide (CoCuFeAgMoOOH) and its composites with Ag nanoparticles (Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH) are fabricated by a low-temperature electrochemical reconstruction method. The Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH electrocatalysts are verified with excellent and non-decay OER properties, and the favorable activity of incorporated Ag NPs and their compensation for active sites are also confirmed. Typically, the optimal Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH electrocatalysts show a low overpotential of 270 mV at a current density of 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> (218 mV@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and a 35.3 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> Tafel slope in 1 m KOH as well as excellent stability over 50 h. This work not only promotes the underlying understanding of the cocktail effect of critical OER performance in the HE system, but also opens up new strategies to logically realize electronic structure modulation of HE catalysts with high complexity via raising metal–oxygen d–p hybridization and introduction of the electron donor.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

First, a theoretical calculation is carried out to predict the activity of different metal reactive sites in the high-entropy model and give a deep insight into the influences brought by the multi-element system on each metal reactive site based on the conventional adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM)[29,30] as follows, where "\*" represents the active site:

$$2H_2O + * \rightarrow *OH + H_2O + H^+ + e^-$$
 (1)

$$*OH + H_2O + H^+ + e^- \rightarrow *O + H_2O + 2(H^+ + e^-)$$
 (2)

$$*O + H_2O + 2(H^+ + e^-) \rightarrow *OOH + 3(H^+ + e^-)$$
 (3)

$$*OOH + 3(H^{+} + e^{-}) \rightarrow O_2 + 4(H^{+} + e^{-})$$
 (4)

The reaction free energies of reactions (1), (2), (3), and (4) are labeled as Δ*G*1, Δ*G*2, Δ*G*3, and Δ*G*4, respectively, and the theoretical overpotential *η* is defined as follows:

$$\eta = \frac{\max\{\Delta G_1, \Delta G_2, \Delta G_3, \Delta G_4\}}{e} - 1.23 \text{ V}$$
 (5)

As depicted by the theoretical calculation (**Figure 1**a), the step of the reaction (3) exhibits the largest energy barrier for all the metal reactive sites (i.e., Co, Cu, Fe, Ag, and Mo sites) in CoCuFeAgMoOOH model, indicating that the reaction (3) is the rate-determining step (RDS) for CoCuFeAgMoOOH. The relevant overpotentials (*η*) derived from the energy barriers of RDS are 0.475 V for Co site, 0.427 V for Cu site, 0.452 V for Fe site, 0.344 V for Ag site, and 0.483 V for Mo, respectively. To further verify the activities derived from calculated limiting energy barriers of each reactive site, estimations of hybridization between d states of active sites and p states of the adsorbed intermediates were conducted, where the hybridization parameters were computed based on the parameters from the integrated O 2p unoccupied density of states of the intermediates normalized by empty d states.[31] Herein, since Reaction (3) has been calculated as the RDS for all the metal reactive sites in CoCuFeAgMoOOH model, the hybridization parameters between O 2p states and metal d states were calculated for the adsorbed intermediates O to give a comprehensive estimation. The positive correlation between the hybridization parameters and OER activities can be confirmed, which is consistent with the reported critical role of hybridization for oxygen electrocatalysis.[26,32,33] Meanwhile, the 4d states of Ag site show the strongest hybridization with 2p states of O intermediate, corresponding to its highest OER activity (Table S1, Supporting Information). According to the theoretical results, Ag introduced into the high-entropy system can be tailored to be most active, and the activities of Co, Cu, Fe, Mo sites are tailored to be comparable to that of Ag site and much higher than that of the Co site in pristine CoOOH (limiting energy barrier of 2.230 eV under the same calculation details). Evidently, in order to further enlarge the OER performance, it is best to realize further activation of all the metal sites in the HE system. Typically, when compositing metal oxides or hydroxides with metals

**Figure 1.** a,b) Free energy landscape at 0 V for CoCuFeAgMoOOH (a) and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH (b). c,d) TDOS and PDOS plots for CoCuFeAgMoOOH (c) and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH (d).

of higher Fermi level, electrons would transfer to unoccupied conduction band primarily consisting of unoccupied metal 3d states in metal oxides or hydroxides to raise the Fermi level. Accordingly, the normalized hybridization parameter can be increased for decreased empty d states. Figure 1c shows the total density of states (TDOS) of modeled CoCuFeAgMoOOH and corresponding projected density of state (PDOS), indicating the CoCuFeAgMoOOH is a conductor and its unoccupied conduction band is primarily composed of Co 3d orbitals. In the theoretical prediction, the Ag cluster was introduced as an electron donor to raise the Fermi level of CoCuFeAgMoOOH (−1.1402 eV). Furthermore, the calculated Fermi level relative to vacuum of the resulting Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH is −0.5806 eV, confirming the positive effect of the introduced Ag cluster on raising the Fermi level of CoCuFeAgMoOOH. Meanwhile, as shown in Figure 1b depicting the energy barriers of all metal sites in Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, the relevant overpotentials derived from the energy barrier of RDS are 0.328 V for Co site, 0.374 V for Cu site, 0.363 V for Fe site, 0.338 V for Ag site, and 0.459 V for Mo, respectively, signifying the enhanced OER activity and further activation of the metal active sites. Likewise, the hybridization between O 2p states and metal d states was also estimated for the adsorbed intermediates O in Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. Apparently, according to the calculated hybridization parameters for each metal site of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, introducing Ag cluster increases the hybridization between O 2p states and d states of Co, Cu, Fe, and Mo, however, decreased the hybridization at Ag site due to its large O 2p character of unoccupied electronic states near the Fermi level as depicted by corresponding PDOS (Figure S1d, Supporting Information). Interestingly, the Ag site at the introduced Ag cluster shows the lowest calculated overpotential of 0.311 V consisting of its highest hybridization parameter. Overall, the theoretical calculations predict that the enlarged OER performance can be achieved by fabricating high-entropy materials and further enhanced by incorporating an electron donor of higher Fermi level.

Bearing the theoretically predicted results in mind, we adopted an electrochemical reconstruction process[24] to fabricate CoCuFeAgMoOOH decorated with nanoparticles (NPs) on Ag foil (Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag) as electrocatalytic electrode. The micro–nanostructures of fabricated catalysts are characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), respectively. As shown in **Figure 2**c, cross-linked nanosheets can be identified on the surface of sample. TEM analysis reveals that the Ag nanoparticles uniformly distribute in the cross-linked nanostructure (Figure 2e). The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images (Figure 2f) further confirm the composite structure consisting of nanosheets and Ag NPs and display lattice fringes with an interplanar spacing of 0.244 nm corresponding to the lattice planes of CoOOH (101), and 0.205 nm, 0.231 nm corresponding to the lattice planes of Ag (111), (200), respectively. The selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns (Figure 2d) of the composite display the (101), (006), and (202) diffraction rings of CoOOH and also (111) and (400) diffraction rings of Ag. In addition, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure S9, Supporting Information) also

**Figure 2.** a–c) SEM images of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. d) SAED pattern of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. e) TEM image of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. f) HRTEM image of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH nanocomposite. g) EDS elemental mapping images of Co, Cu, Fe, Ag, and Mo for Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH.

contains peaks indexed to a mixture of CoOOH, Ag, and Ag2O. Moreover, the uniform distribution of Co, Cu, Fe, Mo, and Ag elements is identified by EDS mapping (Figure 2g). Meanwhile, the CoCuFeAgMoOOH was also prepared as the counterpart for comparison. The CoCuFeAgMoOOH was fabricated on Cu foil (CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Cu) to avoid the introduction of Ag NPs since the Ag NPs were introduced from the Ag foil substrate through the re-precipitation process during the electrochemical reconstruction, which is disclosed by comparing the EDS results before and after electrochemical reconstruction (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Typically, the as-prepared CoCuFeAgMoOOH shows a similar cross-linked nanostructure consisting of nanosheets, however without decorated Ag NPs (Figure S2a, Supporting Information). The SAED patterns of CoCuFeAgMoOOH display (101), (006), (107), and (202) diffraction rings of CoOOH (Figure S2b, Supporting Information). Likewise, the uniform distribution of Co, Cu, Fe, Mo, and Ag elements is also confirmed by EDS mapping (Figure S2c, Supporting Information).

The Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH and CoCuFeAgMoOOH are further characterized with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). As depicted in **Figure 3**a, Co, Cu, Fe, Ag, and Mo are observed in both samples, while the presence and precise composition of Co, Cu, Fe, Ag, and Mo can be further confirmed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS, Table S4 in the Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the chemical states of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH and CoCuFeAgMoOOH were further investigated by the high-resolution XPS spectrum for Co, Ag, and O. A core-level peak curve fitted to two spin–orbit doublets and three shake-up satellites is presented in the highresolution Co 2p XPS spectrum of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH (Figure 3b). The first doublet at 779.78 and 794.91 eV is attributed to Co3<sup>+</sup>, and the second doublet at 780.73 and 796.49 eV is attributed to Co2+. [34,35] Similarly, the Co 2p XPS spectrum of CoCuFeAgMoOOH (Figure 3b) presents two spin–orbit doublets and three satellites, where the first doublet at 779.67 and 794.81 eV is derived from Co3<sup>+</sup>, and the second doublet at 780.58 and 796.30 eV is attributed to Co2<sup>+</sup>. The peaks of the high-resolution Ag 3d spectrum from Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH (Figure 3c) can be deconvoluted into two pairs of characteristic peaks at 368.02 and 374.03 eV, and 367.74 and 373.59 eV, which can be attributed to Ag<sup>0</sup> and Ag+, respectively, confirming the presence of Ag NPs.[36,37] As for CoCuFeAgMoOOH (Figure 3c), only one doublet at 367.73 and 373.74 eV associated with Ag<sup>+</sup> are observed, signifying the absence of Ag0 and Ag NPs. The O 1s spectrum from Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH (Figure 3d) shows

**Figure 3.** a) XPS survey spectra of CoCuFeAgMoOOH and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. b–d) High-resolution XPS spectra of Co 2p (b), Ag 3d (c), and O 1s (d) in CoCuFeAgMoOOH and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, respectively.

two peaks at 531.23 and 529.39 eV associated with O–H bonds and metal–oxygen (M–O) bonds of OH bonds, respectively.[38,39] As for CoCuFeAgMoOOH (Figure 3d), the O 1s two peaks associated with O–H bonds and M–O bonds of OH bonds are observed at 531.2 and 529.45 eV, respectively. Also, the OH/M–O ratios from Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH and CoCuFeAgMoOOH are 1.16 and 1.06, respectively, indicating their nature of (oxy)hydroxides.

In order to deeply understand how the incorporated Ag NPs affect the electronic and coordination structure of the highentropy catalyst, X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (XAFS) was conducted. The X-ray absorption near-edge spectra (XANES) of Co K-edge (**Figure 4**a) show that the Co K-edge of CoCuFeAgMoOOH is shifted to a higher energy position than that of CoOOH, indicating its Co valence state higher than +3. Meanwhile, the Co K-edge of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH is negatively shifted to a lower energy position than that of both CoOOH and CoCuFeAgMoOOH. The lower valence state of Co in Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH is consistent with the theoretical prediction that electrons would transfer to unoccupied metal d states in CoCuFeAgMoOOH when incorporated with Ag clusters due to the Fermi level difference between Ag and CoCuFeAgMoOOH. In addition, the lowered valence state of Cu species is confirmed by the negative shift of its absorption edge (Figure S10, Supporting Information), while the decreased valences of Fe and Mo by the introduction of Ag nanoparticles can also be confirmed by the XPS spectra (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Moreover, weakened white line peaks are observed for Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH and CoCuFeAgMoOOH in comparison with CoOOH, implying their enhanced incongruity in the coordination environment. From the Co K-edge EXAFS *k*2*χ*(*R*) spectra (Figure 4b), a negligible change of the intensity of the Co–M peak can be identified after incorporating Ag NPs, while a slightly weakened Co–O peak can be confirmed for Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, which signifies that incorporating Ag NPs only slightly increases oxygen vacancies and dangling bonds. The fitting results of the Co K-edge EXAFS *k*2*χ*(*R*) spectra (Figure S4 and Table S2, Supporting Information) show that the Co–O coordination number decreases from 5.3 for CoOOH to 5.0 for CoCuFeAgMoOOH, and 4.7 for Ag@CoFeAgMoOOH, respectively, while the Co–O bond lengths are 1.90 Å for all the three samples. The fitted Co–M coordination numbers are 6.1 for CoOOH, 4.8 for CoCuFeAgMoOOH, and 4.6 for Ag@ CoCuFeAgMoOOH, while the fitted Co–M bond lengths are 2.85 Å for CoOOH, 2.84 Å for CoCuFeAgMoOOH, and 2.84 Å

**Figure 4.** a) Co K-edge XANES spectra and b) Co K-edge EXAFS spectra of CoOOH, CoCuFeAgMoOOH, and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. c) Wavelet transform analysis of CoOOH, CoCuFeAgMoOOH, and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, respectively.

for Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, indicating that the other metal cations homogenously substitute for the Co sites of CoO6 octahedra.[29] Meanwhile, corresponding wavelet transforms (WT) in Figure 4c show that negligible difference of Co–O and Co–M k value intensity maximums can be confirmed for CoCuFeAgMoOOH and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH. Overall, a significant change of valence states of Co and a slight variation of coordination structure can be brought by incorporating Ag NPs with CoCuFeAgMoOOH.

To assess the catalytic OER activity, electrochemical measurements of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag were carried out in KOH solution (pH 13.9) based on a classic three-electrode cell with a platinum plate as the counter electrode and Ag/ AgCl in saturated KCl as the reference electrode (Ref.). Electrodes including Ag foil, Ag foil decorated with Ag NPs (AgNPs@Ag, Figure S3, Supporting Information), Cu foil, and CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Cu were also characterized for comparison. The polarization curves recorded with linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) are plotted in **Figure 5**a. Typically, we can identify that unmodified Ag foil and Ag NPs decorated Ag foil show negligible current density, corresponding to the highly inert nature of Ag for OER catalysis. Significantly, the overpotential of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag was measured to be 218 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 and 270 mV at 100 mA cm−2, which is much lower than that of CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Cu (262 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 and 325 mV at 100 mA cm−2) and unmodified Cu foil (661 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 and 771 mV at 100 mA cm−2). And it should be noted that Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag is one of the best HE Co-based OER catalysts in alkaline media, and is also comparable to the state-of-the-art non-HE catalysts containing cobalt/silver for the alkaline OER (Table S3, Supporting Information). Also, the LSV plots were normalized by Cdl (obtained from the cyclic voltammetry curves at different scan rates in Figure S6, Supporting Information, and shown in Figure 5e) values to confirm the intrinsic activity (Figure 5f). The enhanced intrinsic activity of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/ Ag is demonstrated by its higher normalized current than that of CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Cu, consisting of the optimal theoretical adsorption energy brought by introducing Ag cluster. Meanwhile, as depicted in Figure 5b, the lower Tafel slope of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag (35.3 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) than that of CuCoFeAgMoOOH/Cu (38.6 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ) further indicates its faster OER kinetic process. In order to confirm that if the Ag NPs in as-prepared Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH can be highly active sites as theoretically predicted, OER performances of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH with different Ag loading amounts fabricating were tested, where the amount of Ag increases with an increasing number of cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles

**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves of the CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Cu, Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag, AgNPs@Ag, Ag foil, and Cu foil. b) Tafel plots of CoCuFeAgMoOOH/ Cu and Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag. c) Chronopotentiometric curve of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag at a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . d) LSV curves of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag before and after 50 h test. e) The slope corresponds to the specific capacitance in the non-Faradaic region (Cdl). f) LSV curves normalized by the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl).

from 4 to 0 V (Figures S5 and S7b–e, Supporting Information). Typically, if the introduced Ag NPs were relatively inert, further introducing Ag NPs would not only enhance the activity of main active sites, but also shield the active sites thus inducing the decay of overall activity. On the contrary, if the introduced Ag NPs attain comparable activity with that of the main active sites in Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH, the introducing Ag NPs would compensate the shielding of active sites thus giving a relatively constant performance with further increased Ag loading amounts for the maximum densification of the active sites. Evidently, the OER catalytic activity enhanced with increased Ag loading amounts from Ag/Co ratio of 0.2 to Ag/Co ratio of 0.85. Further increasing the Ag loading amount to Ag/Co ratio of 1.27 does not enhance or decrease the catalytic activity, where almost identical OER performance can be identified for the samples with Ag/Co ratio of 0.85 and 1.27, signifying that the Ag NPs can be effective active sites for catalytic OER. The chronopotentiometry test (Figure 5c) conducted on the Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag for 50 h at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 shows only slight potential change over the long-life test. Meanwhile, the polarization curve of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag after 50 h test (Figure 5d, denoted as Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag 50 h), shows almost no decay and further demonstrates its excellent durability. The stability of Ag@CoCuFeAgMoOOH/Ag can be further confirmed by slight agglomeration (Figure S8a,b, Supporting Information), uniformly distributed Co, Cu, Fe, Ag, and Mo elements (Figure S8d, Supporting Information), and almost the same SAED pattern (Figure S8c, Supporting Information) of the sample after 50 h test.

## **3. Conclusion**

We have successfully demonstrated that metal–oxygen d–p hybridization can be an effective quantitative descriptor to indicate the intrinsic catalytic activity of each metal site in the HE system. Impressively, by the guidance of quantitative hybridization theory, it is found that the introduction of an electron donor (e.g., Ag) could reinforce the electrocatalytic activity of the HE system via enlarging d–p hybridization. Consequently, we construct novel Ag-decorated Co–Cu–Fe–Ag–Mo (oxy) hydroxide HE electrocatalysts for the OER by an electrochemical reconstruction method and testified with lower overpotential and smaller Tafel slope as well as better cycling life. Our work promotes a better understanding of the "cocktail effect" of critical OER performance in the HE system, and opens up a new strategy to logically realize electronic structure modulation of advanced HE catalysts.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This research was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (Grant No. 2020YFE0100100) and the Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51801180). The authors also thank Mr. Xiaokun Ding from Department of Chemistry in Zhejiang University for his great support and help of transmission electron microscopy.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

### **Keywords**

electron donors, high entropy, hybridization, oxygen evolution reaction, silver

> Received: December 24, 2021 Revised: February 27, 2022 Published online: May 22, 2022

- [1] L. Zhang, C. Lu, F. Ye, R. Pang, Y. Liu, Z. Wu, Z. Shao, Z. Sun, L. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007523.
- [2] X. Lin, Y. Huang, Z. Hu, L. Li, J. Zhou, Q. Zhao, H. Huang, J. Sun, C. Pao, Y. Chang, H. Lin, C. Chen, C. Dong, J. Wang, L. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *144*, 416.
- [3] S. Shen, L. Huang, X. Tong, R. Zhou, Y. Zhong, Q. Xiong, L. Zhang, X. Wang, X. Xia, J. Tu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2102796.

- [4] Y. Sun, H. Liao, J. Wang, B. Chen, S. Sun, S. J. H. Ong, S. Xi, C. Diao, Y. Du, J.-O. Wang, M. B. H. Breese, S. Li, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 554.
- [5] J. Wang, S.-J. Kim, J. Liu, Y. Gao, S. Choi, J. Han, H. Shin, S. Jo, J. Kim, F. Ciucci, H. Kim, Q. Li, W. Yang, X. Long, S. Yang, S.-P. Cho, K. H. Chae, M. G. Kim, H. Kim, J. Lim, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 212.
- [6] J. Ge, R. R. Chen, X. Ren, J. Liu, S. J. H. Ong, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101091.
- [7] A. G. Rajan, J. M. P. Martirez, E. A. Carter, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 3600.
- [8] Z. Cai, L. Li, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, J. Yang, Y. Guo, L. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 4189.
- [9] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [10] B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. Garcia-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, D. A. F. Garcia, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2016**, *352*, 333.
- [11] Y. Wang, L. Yan, K. Dastafkan, C. Zhao, X. Zhao, Y. Xue, J. Huo, S. Li, Q. Zhai, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006351.
- [12] L. Zhang, W. Cai, J. Ren, Y. Tang, *Mater. Today Energy* **2021**, *21*, 100703.
- [13] X. Zhao, H. Zhang, Y. Yan, J. Cao, X. Li, S. Zhou, Z. Peng, J. Zeng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 328.
- [14] T. Wang, H. Chen, Z. Yang, J. Liang, S. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 4550.
- [15] A. Sarkar, Q. Wang, A. Schiele, M. R. Chellali, S. S. Bhattacharya, D. Wang, T. Brezesinski, H. Hahn, L. Velasco, B. Breitung, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806236.
- [16] S. Ranganathan, *Curr. Sci.* **2003**, *85*, 1404.
- [17] J. W. Yeh, *JOM* **2013**, *65*, 1759.
- [18] Y. Zhang, T. Zuo, Y. Cheng, P. K. Liaw, *Sci. Rep.* **2013**, *3*, 1455.
- [19] O. N. Senkov, G. B. Wilks, J. M. Scott, D. B. Miracle, *Intermetallics* **2011**, *19*, 698.
- [20] Y. Dong, K. Ren, Y. Lu, Q. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Wang, *J. Eur. Ceram. Soc.* **2019**, *39*, 2574.
- [21] J. Chen, H. Li, Z. Yu, C. Liu, Z. Yuan, C. Wang, S. Zhao, G. Henkelman, S. Li, L. Wei, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2002593.
- [22] M. Han, C. Wang, J. Zhong, J. Han, N. Wang, A. Seifitokaldani, Y. Yu, Y. Liu, X. Sun, A. Vomiero, H. Liang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *301*, 120764.
- [23] S. Wang, W. Huo, F. Fang, Z. Xie, J. K. Shang, J. Jiang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132410.
- [24] L. Zhang, W. Cai, N. Bao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2100745.
- [25] M. Cui, C. Yang, B. Li, Q. Dong, M. Wu, S. Hwang, H. Xie, X. Wang, G. Wang, L. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *11*, 2002887.
- [26] J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1383.
- [27] W. T. Hong, K. A. Stoerzinger, Y. L. Lee, L. Giordano, A. Grimaud, A. M. Johnson, J. Hwang, E. J. Crumlin, W. Yang, Y. Shao-Horn, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 2190.
- [28] Y. Zhou, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, B. Chen, Y. Du, A. C. Fisher, F. Cheng, X. Wang, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1802912.
- [29] Z. F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 329.
- [30] M. J. Craig, G. Coulter, E. Dolan, J. Soriano-López, E. Mates-Torres, W. Schmitt, M. García-Melchor, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4993.
- [31] J. Suntivich, W. T. Hong, Y. L. Lee, J. M. Rondinelli, W. Yang, J. B. Goodenough, B. Dabrowski, J. W. Freeland, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2014**, *118*, 1856.
- [32] Y. Duan, S. Sun, S. Xi, X. Ren, Y. Zhou, G. Zhang, H. Yang, Y. Du, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 10534.
- [33] J. Suntivich, H. A. Gasteiger, N. Yabuuchi, H. Nakanishi, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Nat. Chem.* **2011**, *3*, 546.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2022, 26, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202110511 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [34] C. Wang, Y. Li, C. Gu, L. Zhang, X. Wang, J. Tu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132226.
- [35] R. Q. Yao, H. Shi, W.-B. Wan, Z. Wen, X.-Y. Lang, Q. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1907214.
- [36] Z. Zhang, X. Li, C. Zhong, N. Zhao, Y. Deng, X. Han, W. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 7245.
- [37] M. Yu, G.-h. Moon, R. G. Castillo, S. DeBeer, C. Weidenthaler, H. Tüysüz, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 16544.
- [38] C. Liang, P. Zou, A. Nairan, Y. Zhang, J. Liu, K. Liu, S. Hu, F. Kang, H. J. Fan, C. Yang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 86.
- [39] C. Lee, K. Shin, C. Jung, P.-P. Choi, G. Henkelman, H. M. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 562.