---
source: Zhang 等 - 2023 - Activated FeS2 @NiS2 Core–Shell Structure Boosting Cascade Reaction for Superi.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 45.627s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:36:06.466142Z
---

# Activated FeS<sub>2</sub>@NiS<sub>2</sub> Core—Shell Structure Boosting Cascade Reaction for Superior Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution

Lulu Zhang, Ju Rong, Yongqiang Yang,\* Huaze Zhu, Xiaohua Yu, Chunlin Chen, Hui-Ming Cheng, and Gang Liu\*

Unlike single-step reactions, multi-step reactions can be greatly facilitated only if all the intermediate reactions can be catalyzed simultaneously and progressively. Herein, the theoretical analysis and experiments to illustrate the superiority of the cascade oxygen evolution reaction (OER) are conducted. As different OER intermediate reactions demand  $Fe_xNi_{1-x}OOH$  with altered Fe/Ni ratios, gradient Fe-doped NiOOH can be an ideal electrocatalyst for the efficient cascade OER in line. Fine controlling of the nucleation sequence of iron and nickel sulfides leads to a  $FeS_2@NiS_2$  core—shell structure. The activated outward diffusion of Fe dopants results in the gradient Fe/Ni ratios in the  $Fe_xNi_{1-x}OOH$  shell, where a cascade OER can happen. Electrochemical tests suggest that the  $FeS_2@NiS_2$  only needs an overpotential of 237 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, with fast reaction kinetics and good stability.

#### 1. Introduction

Hydrogen produced by electrochemical water splitting is a promising way to develop sustainable and environmentally friendly energy systems for the ever-decreased electricity price<sup>[1]</sup> and the high calorific value of clean and renewable hydrogen.<sup>[2]</sup> In practice, the industrialization of water-splitting devices is

L. Zhang, Y. Yang, H. Zhu, C. Chen, H.-M. Cheng, G. Liu Shenyang National Laboratory for Materials Science Institute of Metal Research Chinese Academy of Sciences Shenyang 110016, P. R. China E-mail: yqyang@imr.ac.cn; gangliu@imr.ac.cn L. Zhang, H. Zhu, G. Liu School of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China Shenyang 110016, P. R. China J. Rong, X. Yu Faculty of Materials Science and Engineering Kunming University of Science and Technology Kunming 650093, P. R. China H.-M. Cheng Institute of Technology for Carbon Neutrality Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202207472.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202207472

Chinese Academy of Sciences

Shenzhen 518055, P. R. China

restrained by the sluggish anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) involving fourelectron transfer and multiple intermediate reactions.[3] According to the Sabatier principle,[4] the highly correlated OER intermediates require different properties of the reactive sites. For example, the adsorption of OH\* or O\* would be facilitated by the sites with strong binding strength to oxygenated species, while the OOH\* formation or O2 desorption favors weak bindings, [4a,b,5] meaning that OER should be effectively promoted by the electrocatalyst with multifunctional reactive sites.<sup>[6]</sup> To this end, a highly efficient cascade OER was proposed, and the schematic illustration was shown in Figure 1a. Specifically, the multiple reac-

tive sites were designed to guarantee the gradually changed binding strengths for oxygenated intermediates, thus all the OER intermediate reactions, including the adsorption and conversion of OH\*, O\*, OOH\*, and desorption of formed O2 could be simultaneously and progressively facilitated. Therefore, the energy barrier of the cascade OER ( $\Delta G_{\text{c-OER}}$ ) was determined by the minimum values of intermediate reaction barriers ( $\Delta G$ ) on different reactive sites (the following equation, numbers represent reactive sites), ignoring the large energy barriers required for the rate-determining steps and would be much lower than that of single reactive site.

$$\Delta G_{\text{c-OER}} = \max \begin{cases} \min \left( \Delta G_{\text{OH+}}^{1}, \Delta G_{\text{OH+}}^{2}, ..., \Delta G_{\text{OH+}}^{n} \right), \min \left( \Delta G_{\text{O+}}^{1}, \Delta G_{\text{O+}}^{2}, ..., \Delta G_{\text{O+}}^{n} \right), \\ \min \left( \Delta G_{\text{OOH+}}^{1}, \Delta G_{\text{OOH+}}^{2}, ..., \Delta G_{\text{OOH+}}^{n} \right), \min \left( \Delta G_{\text{O_{2}}}^{1}, \Delta G_{\text{O_{2}}}^{2}, ..., \Delta G_{\text{O_{2}}}^{n} \right) \end{cases} \left( 1 \right)$$

To well conduct the cascade OER, the economically viable Fe/Ni sulfide would be an appropriate electrocatalyst for the flexibility and variability of the easily formed Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>OOH in the binding strengths for oxygenated intermediates.<sup>[3b,7]</sup> Specifically, the electronic structure of Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>OOH reactive site was directly determined by the easily altered Fe/Ni ratios,<sup>[7b-d,8]</sup> for the absorption of oxygenates has strong strength on Fe sites,<sup>[3b,f,5,7b,9]</sup> while absorption of oxygenates on Ni sites was relatively weak,<sup>[4c,5,7b,10]</sup> thus the binding strength of oxygencontaining species on Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>OOH could be facilely regulated. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations verified the multifunctionality of different Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>OOH (Figure S1, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 1b,c, the Fe<sub>0.58</sub>Ni<sub>0.42</sub>OOH

16136829, 2023, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207472 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**Figure 1.** Schematic illustration of cascade OER. a) Schematic illustration of the cascade OER. b) Calculated free-energy diagram of OER and c) Energy barriers of each OER intermediate reactions on the Fe0.58Ni0.42OOH, Fe0.42Ni0.58OOH, Fe0.29Ni0.71OOH, and Fe0.12Ni0.88OOH.

with strong binding strength on oxygenated species could efficiently facilitate the OH\* adsorption while the Fe0.12Ni0.88OOH extremely favors the O2 formation. Besides, the Fe0.42Ni0.58OOH and Fe0.29Ni0.71OOH with moderate Fe/Ni ratios could promote the deprotonation process to form O\* and OOH\* in a targeted manner. In this situation, OER needs a much lower overpotential of 1.43 eV than the single site catalysis (1.93 eV of Fe0.58Ni0.42OOH, 1.97 eV on Fe0.42Ni0.58OOH, 2.17 eV of Fe0.29Ni0.71OOH, 1.69 eV of Fe0.12Ni0.88OOH), indicating the necessity and validity of cascade OER and highlighting the potential of the Fe/Ni sulfide for superior OER.

As the oxygen radicals are movable in the electrolyte,[11] it is plausible that the different intermediate reactions happen on different sites. In fact, the concept of cascade OER has been proposed as one of the possible catalytic mechanisms in high-entropy-alloy electrocatalysts.[6a,b] However, the experimental verification and follow-up studies were rarely focused. Meanwhile, such cascade OER might have been undesignedly constructed in the metal-based electrodes in which metal ions would diffuse under work conditions,[7a,12] such as Ni.[9c,13] The lack of research is mainly because of the insufficient analysis of reconstructed state and the difficulty or complexity to prepare the finely controlled multifunctional reactive sites. Considering the two prerequisites for realizing cascade OER, i.e., the multifunctional reactive sites and the ordered gradient spatial distribution of them, core–shell electrocatalysts with derived element gradient would be the promising candidates.[14] In practice, the Fe species tend to dissociate in electrolytes and be adsorbed by the formed NiOOH under alkaline OER conditions,[7a,d,12] thus the core–shell Fe/Ni sulfide with Fe inside and Ni outside could have great potential to construct the various reactive sites with element gradient and achieve the highly efficient cascade OER.

In this work, we construct a unique core–shell Fe/Ni sulfide (FeS2@NiS2) with the FeS2 as the inner core and the NiS2 as the outer shell to achieve the highly efficient cascade OER. The OER tests were conducted on the glassy carbon (GC) electrode and the reconstructed states under anodic potentials were focused. Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mappings and corresponding compositional line-scanning profiles clearly revealed the FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/Ni ratios could be easily constructed and well-maintained throughout the whole OER process. Combined with the DFT calculations of the cascade OER on the FexNi1-xOOH with different Fe/Ni ratios, the reconstructed multiple reactive sites would exhibit very low energy barriers for OER. Electrochemical tests suggested FeS2@NiS2 only needs an overpotential of 237 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, with fast reaction kinetics reflected in the Tafel slope of 31.4 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> and good stability. Meanwhile, the nearly identical OER performance of Fe/Ni sulfides with different Fe:Ni feeding ratios but similar core–shell character confirmed the robustness of core–shell structure for the superior cascade OER. This work exhibits high efficiency of cascade OER and provides a new avenue for the active multi-step reaction.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Structural and Morphological Characterizations of FeS2@NiS2**

The fact of the smaller Gibbs free energy of FeS2 than NiS2 rationalized the core–shell structure construction (Table S1, Supporting Information). Specifically, the easier formation of

16136829, 2023, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207472 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 2.** Formation and characterizations of FeS2@NiS2. a) Preparation scheme and b) Sectional view of FeS2@NiS2. c) Enlarged view of the NiS2 shell. d) XRD pattern, e) SEM image, and f) TEM image of FeS2@NiS2. g) HRTEM image of the NiS2 shell. h) Compositional line-scanning profiles and i–k) EDS mappings of FeS2@NiS2. The scale bar in (i–k) was 100 nm.

FeS2 than NiS2 implied that the latter could be nuclear and grow around the FeS2 particles to form the core–shell FeS2@NiS2. Based on the thermodynamical data, a hydrothermal process with an equal amount of Fe and Ni chlorides as precursors, polyvinylpyrrolidone as surfactant, and NaOH as pH modulator was conducted to synthesize FeS2@NiS2 (**Figure 2**a, Experimental Section, Supporting Information). The successful synthesis of core–shell FeS2@NiS2 was first confirmed by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD). The diffraction peaks (Figure 2d) were exclusively indexed to FeS2 (JCPDS No. 79–0617) and NiS2 (JCPDS No. 11–0099), without any by-product. The identical Fe/Ni molar amount revealed by inductively coupled plasmaoptical emission spectrometry (iCP-OES) is consistent well with the feeding ratios (Table S2, Supporting Information). The scanning electron microscopic (SEM) image (Figure 2e) of FeS2@ NiS2 shows the morphology of the uniform octahedra-like particles with a size of a few hundred nanometers. The core–shell structure was directly confirmed by the elemental distributions of Fe and Ni. The EDS mappings in Figure 2i–k clearly show that the Fe and Ni are located at the outer and inner parts of the particle, respectively, and S is distributed in the whole particle (Figure S2, Supporting Information). Besides, the features of both the absent Fe signal at the outer part and saddled-shaped profile of Ni signal in the compositional line-scanning profiles (Figure 2h) further verify the core–shell character with FeS2 as core and NiS2 as shell.

Transmission electron microscopic (TEM) and highresolution TEM (HRTEM) images clearly show that the FeS2@NiS2 was composed of loosely packed nanocrystals that would form numerous micro-channels (Figure 2f,g), as illustrated by Figure 2b,c. Such a loosely packed structure of FeS2@NiS2 would be suitable for the functioning of cascade OER. On the one hand, the gradient reactive sites could be efficiently formed by the facilitated outward diffusion of Fe species, to be discussed in next section for details. On the other hand, the reconstructed reactive sites would be highly available for OER because the interstitial spaces could promote the contact between the reactive sites and electrolyte,[15] and more importantly, the formed intermediates could be confined at the nanoscale gaps that would benefit to the duration of the envisaged reaction sequence to the final product.[6a]

www.small-journal.com

The chemical states of FeS<sub>2</sub>@NiS<sub>2</sub> were studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figure S3, Supporting Information). For the high-resolution core spectrum of Fe, the peaks at 707.3 and 720.2 eV are consistent with Fe–S.[8b,16] The Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  peaks located at 853.9 and 871.1 eV are corresponding to Ni<sup>2+</sup> in NiS<sub>2</sub>.[16,17] Besides, the signals with higher binding energies for Fe 2p and Ni 2p could be attributed to the surficial oxidized species when exposed to air.[16] The peaks in the S 2p spectrum correspond to  $2p_{3/2}$  (162.6 eV) and  $2p_{1/2}$  (163.8 eV) of  $S_2^{2-}$  ions in metal sulfide and the metal sulfate species (169.6 eV) derived from surface oxidization (SO<sub>4</sub> $^{2-}$ ).[15b,16,18]

For comparison, the electrocatalyst consisted of  $FeS_2$  and  $NiS_2$  but without core–shell structure ( $FeS_2\&NiS_2$ ), the single phase  $FeS_2$ , and  $NiS_2$  were also prepared (Experimental Section, Supporting Information). The investigations of  $FeS_2@NiS_2$ ,  $FeS_2\&NiS_2$ ,  $FeS_2$ , and  $NiS_2$  indicate that the core–shell structure would not much influence the chemical state or the phase structure (Figure S4-10, Supporting Information), suggesting the accuracy of the comparisons among the distinctive catalytic behaviors of the various electrocatalysts.

#### 2.2. Cascade OER on the Activated FeS2@NiS2

It is widely known that the Fe/Ni sulfide would transform into  $Fe_xNi_{1.x}OOH$  under OER conditions, [7a,8b,19] so the evolution

process and the actual reactive state should be focused. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) tests were commonly used to reduce the adsorbate interference and activate the electrocatalyst for reliable data. Figure 3a shows the CV activated process of FeS<sub>2</sub>@NiS<sub>2</sub>. The irreversible oxidation peak in the first CV curve and reproducible voltammograms within 20 times indicated that FeS<sub>2</sub>@NiS<sub>2</sub> was reconstructed for OER but the evolution process should easily tend to be stabilized. Besides, surficial chemical state after CV activation and morphological character after OER tests also revealed the presence of Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1.x</sub>OOH (Figures S11 and S12, Supporting Information), Ca. Supporting that the active sites of FeS<sub>2</sub>@NiS<sub>2</sub> for OER were in the form of Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1.x</sub>OOH.

Further insights into the active sites could be obtained from elemental distributions. The previous reports show that  $V^{a,d,12}$  under alkaline OER conditions surficial NiS<sub>2</sub> would simultaneously transform into NiOOH,  $V^{a,12}$  and Fe species would easily dissociate and be adsorbed by the NiOOH.  $V^{c,d,8d,12a}$  In this case, the Fe/Ni ratios in Fe<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>OOH could be flexibly changed. Herein, benefiting from the core–shell FeS<sub>2</sub>@NiS<sub>2</sub> and accompanied outward diffusion of inner Fe species, the NiOOH with gradient Fe doping would be efficiently formed at the shell, as revealed by the EDS mappings and the corresponding compositional line-scanning profiles (Figure 3b–e). Besides, the inner distribution of K element indicating the effective contact between the reconstructed reactive sites and the 1.0 m KOH

Figure 3. Illustration of  $Fe_xNi_{1-x}OOH$  with gradient Fe/Ni ratios and derived cascade OER. a) CV activated curves of  $FeS_2@NiS_2$ . b-d) EDS mappings and e) Corresponding compositional line-scanning profiles of the activated  $FeS_2@NiS_2$ . The scale bar was 100 nm. f) Schematic illustration of the formation of  $Fe_xNi_{1-x}OOH$  with gradient Fe/Ni ratios and derived cascade OER.

16136829, 2023, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207472 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.small-journal.com**

electrolyte (Figure S13, Supporting Information), suggests that the FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/Ni ratios could be accessible and function well for OER.

The schematical illustration of FeS2@NiS2 for OER was shown in Figure 3f. Specifically, the multiple FexNi1-xOOH with the Fe/Ni ratios gradually decreased from inside to outside could be easily constructed after the CV activation, as revealed by the magnified area in the shell. Based on the DFT calculations that FexNi1-xOOH with high, moderate, and low amounts of Fe could specifically promote the OH\* adsorption, the deprotonation to form O\* and OOH\*, and the desorption of O2, respectively (Figure 1b and c), the activated FeS2@NiS2 could efficiently achieve the cascade OER. The proposed overall OER pathways were shown in the magnified area in Figure 3f. With the gradually decreased Fe/Ni ratios, the OH\* adsorption, O\* and OOH\* formation, and O2 desorption could be efficiently facilitated from the inside to outside, clearly unveiling the high efficiency of the cascade OER.

#### **2.3. Evaluation of Alkaline OER Electrocatalysis of FeS2@NiS2**

The OER catalytic activity of the electrocatalysts was evaluated on the GC electrode in Ar saturated 1.0 m KOH electrolyte. Note that the backward scan was used in the linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) to rule out the interferences brought by the metal oxidative peaks on the real OER currents.[23] The iR-corrected LSV curves show that the FeS2@NiS2 exhibit superior OER performance to the FeS2&NiS2, FeS2, NiS2, or the commercial Ir/C (**Figure 4**a). When reaching the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , FeS2@NiS2 only needs an overpotential of 237 mV, much smaller than that of FeS2&NiS2 (287 mV), NiS2 (331 mV), and FeS2 (391 mV) (Figure 4b). The obvious activity gap between FeS2@NiS2 and FeS2&NiS2 strongly confirmed the excellent OER performance was derived from the core–shell structure, rather than the external Ni species. Furthermore, the smallest semicircle in the high-frequency zone in electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and lowest Tafel slope (31.4 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) indicate the smallest charge-transfer resistance and fastest reaction kinetics of FeS2@NiS2 among the tested samples (Figure 4c; Figure S14, Supporting Information).[2f] Considering the loosely packed structure of FeS2@NiS2, the activities normalized by the exposed reactive sites were evaluated to accurately illustrate the superiority of the core–shell structure on the OER performance.[24] Electrochemical doublelayer capacitances (*C*dl) measured at non-faradic regions show a slightly higher *C*dl value of FeS2@NiS2 than FeS2&NiS2 (Figure S15, Supporting Information), indicating more reactive sites exposed in FeS2@NiS2. But the result of the much higher electrochemical surface area (ECSA)-normalized current density of FeS2@NiS2 than FeS2&NiS2 clearly indicates the higher intrinsic OER activity induced by core–shell structure.

Benefiting from the unique core–shell structure, the OER performance of FeS2@NiS2 was much superior to that of most

**Figure 4.** Electrochemical characterizations for OER. a) LSV polarization curves of FeS2@NiS2, FeS2&NiS2, FeS2, NiS2, and Ir/C. b) Overpotentials at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and c) Tafel slopes of FeS2@NiS2, FeS2&NiS2, FeS2, and NiS2. d) Extended chronopotentiometric measurements of FeS2@NiS2 and FeS2&NiS2. e) Recent OER performance of Fe/Ni-based electrocatalysts. Circles and squares represent the GC electrode and other electrodes, respectively.

16136829, 2023, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207472 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** Elemental distributions of FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/Ni ratios. EDS mappings and corresponding compositional line-scanning profiles of FeS2@NiS2 after a–d) 24 h- stability test and e–h) 80 h- stability test. The scale bar was 100 nm.

recently reported Fe/Ni-based OER electrocatalysts (Figure 4e; Table S3, Supporting Information). Considering an approximately 60 mV larger overpotential at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 on GC electrode than other electrodes, such as nickel foam,[25] carbon cloth,[26] or porous Ni mesh,[13d] the differences in the substrates were highlighted in the comparison. Besides, the Tafel slope also was an important indicator to measure the reaction kinetics and evaluate the OER electrocatalyst.[2f] To this end, the low overpotential and small Tafel slope on the GC electrode further highlight the excellent OER performance of FeS2@NiS2.

The OER stability of FeS2@NiS2 and FeS2&NiS2 were evaluated to verify the positive effect of the core–shell structure. Benefited from the core–shell distributions of FeS2 and NiS2, the outside NiOOH would efficiently adsorb the dissociated Fe species from the inner side under alkaline OER conditions,[7c,d,8d,12a] that could not only improve the intrinsic activity through forming the FexNi1-xOOH with different Fe:Ni ratios, but also help to promote the stability by effectively maintaining the crucial Fe species. Thus, the extended chronopotentiometric curves at the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 show that FeS2@NiS2 exhibited good stability in an 80 h- duration test while FeS2&NiS2 degraded severely within 13 h (Figure 4d). Moreover, as for the FeS2@NiS2, the leached amounts of Fe and Ni in the electrolyte after the long-term test were below the test limit of the ICP-OES, which implied the beneficial effect of the core–shell structure for the OER stability. The high stability of the FeS2@NiS2 is also confirmed by the robust morphology (Figure S12, Supporting Information) and well-maintained elemental distributions (**Figure 5**; Figure S16, Supporting Information). Besides, the comparison of the EDS mappings and compositional line-scanning profiles of FeS2@NiS2 after 24 hand 80 h- stability tests with CV activated FeS2@NiS2 shows no obvious change in elemental distributions, suggesting that the highly efficient cascade OER can function well throughout the whole OER process.

The surface chemical state and elemental distributions of FeS2&NiS2 after OER test were also investigated (Figures S11 and S17, Supporting Information). Its similar XPS results to that of FeS2@NiS2 suggest that the active site of FeS2&NiS2 is also in the form of FexNi1-xOOH, but the uniform elemental distributions of Fe and Ni indicate that there is only one kind of Fe/Ni ratio in FexNi1-xOOH during the OER process, rationalizing the poor catalytic activity of FeS2&NiS2. The comparison of structural evolution and OER catalytic behaviors between FeS2@NiS2 and FeS2&NiS2 demonstrate the crucial role of core–shell structure on the high OER activity.

#### **2.4. The Robustness of Core–Shell Electrocatalysts for Superior OER**

To verify the crucial role of the core–shell structure in affecting the OER performance, a series of the core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides were prepared through almost the same hydrothermal methods except with different Fe:Ni feeding ratios (Experimental Section, Supporting Information). SEM images and XRD patterns clearly indicate that all the synthesized core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides exhibit similar morphology with octahedral character and phase structure that is consistent well with FeS2 (JCPDS No. 79–0617) and NiS2 (JCPDS No. 11–0099) (Figures S18 and S19, Supporting Information). More importantly, the core– shell character is confirmed by the elemental distributions. As shown by the EDS mappings (**Figure 6**a), the as-prepared Fe/ Ni sulfides with the feeding ratio of Fe:Ni = 4:6, 5:5 (labeled as FeS2@NiS2), and 6:4 exhibit obvious core–shell structure with

16136829, 2023, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207472 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

**Figure 6.** Elemental distributions and OER activities of core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides. a) HAADF-STEM image and corresponding elemental EDS mappings, the scale bar was 100 nm. b) LSV curves and c) Overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides with different Fe:Ni feeding ratios.

FeS2 as the core and NiS2 as the shell. Note that in the Fe/ Ni sulfides with Fe:Ni feeding ratio of 1:9 and 3:7, although a partial Ni element is present at the innermost side, the clear location of the Ni element out of Fe confirms the core–shell structure of these two samples. Therefore, all the synthesized samples can be recognized as core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides.

Water oxidation tests were conducted on core–shell Fe/ Ni sulfides with different Fe:Ni feeding ratios. As shown in Figure 6b, despite the different Fe:Ni feeding ratios, all the core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides exhibit similar LSV curves. Specifically, to reach the current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , the overpotential needed for all the core–shell Fe/Ni sulfides was about

**www.small-journal.com**

245 mV, and the overpotential difference was within 10 mV (Figure 6c). Different from the Fe content-dependent performance in previous reports,[7b,8b] the nearly identical OER activity of the synthesized Fe/Ni sulfides demonstrates the crucial role of the core–shell structure for the formation of FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/Ni ratios and the efficient cascade OER (Inset in Figure 6c). The above analysis indicated the robustness of the preparation method and the superior OER performances of the core–shell electrocatalysts.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have constructed FeS2@NiS2 core–shell structure with FeS2 as the core and NiS2 as the shell to efficiently achieve the superior cascade OER. Based on the theoretical analysis that altering the Fe/Ni ratios in FexNi1-xOOH can facilitate each OER intermediate reaction, including OH\*, O\*, OOH\* adsorption, and O2 desorption, the cascade OER functions well in the FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/ Ni ratios. As for FeS2@NiS2, the FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/Ni ratios could be effectively achieved through the outward diffusion of Fe species and their adsorption by NiOOH. Elemental distributions of the FeS2@NiS2 after CV activation and long-term stability tests indicated that the FexNi1-xOOH with gradient Fe/Ni ratios could be easily constructed and well maintained, thus the highly efficient cascade OER would proceed throughout the whole OER process. FeS2@NiS2 only needs an overpotential of 237 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, with fast reaction kinetics reflected in the Tafel slope of 31.4 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> and good stability. Besides, the nearly identical catalytic activity of Fe/Ni sulfides with different Fe:Ni feeding ratios but similar core–shell character suggests the robustness of core–shell structure for the superior cascade OER. This work emphasizes the high efficiency of cascade OER and exhibits a great potential of core–shell electrocatalyst with an element gradient for wide application.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

Z.L. and R.J. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (No. 2021YFA1500800), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 52072379, 51825204, 52188101, U2202252), CAS Projects for Young Scientists in Basic Research (YSBR-004), Youth Innovation Promotion Association of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (No. 2022190), and the International Partnership Program of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Grant No. 174321KYSB20200005.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

cascade, core–shells, electrocatalysts, FeS2@NiS2, gradient, oxygen evolution reaction (OER)

> Received: November 30, 2022 Revised: January 5, 2023 Published online: February 3, 2023

- [1] a) Z. Zhuang, Y. Wang, C. Q. Xu, S. Liu, C. Chen, Q. Peng, Z. Zhuang, H. Xiao, Y. Pan, S. Lu, R. Yu, W. C. Cheong, X. Cao, K. Wu, K. Sun, Y. Wang, D. Wang, J. Li, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4875; b) F. T. Haase, A. Bergmann, T. E. Jones, J. Timoshenko, A. Herzog, H. S. Jeon, C. Rettenmaier, B. R. Cuenya, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 765.
- [2] a) I. Roger, M. A. Shipman, M. D. Symes, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2017**, *1*, 0003; b) T. Wu, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, Y. Du, B. Chen, W. A. Sasangka, H. Liao, C. L. Gan, G. G. Scherer, L. Zeng, H. Wang, H. Li, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 763; c) H. Ding, H. Liu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 13174; d) G. Glenk, S. Reichelstein, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 216; e) J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196; f) Z. Y. Yu, Y. Duan, X. Y. Feng, X. Yu, M. R. Gao, S. H. Yu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007100.
- [3] a) J. Timoshenko, B. Roldan Cuenya, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 882; b) B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. Garcia-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, F. P. Garcia de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2016**, *352*, 333; c) T. R. Cook, D. K. Dogutan, S. Y. Reece, Y. Surendranath, T. S. Teets, D. G. Nocera, *Chem. Rev.* **2010**, *110*, 6474; d) Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 329; e) G. Zhou, P. Wang, H. Li, B. Hu, Y. Sun, R. Huang, L. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4827; f) Y. Sun, S. Sun, H. Yang, S. Xi, J. Gracia, Z. J. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003297.
- [4] a) C. Ling, L. Shi, Y. Ouyang, X. C. Zeng, J. Wang, *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, 5133; b) J. Rossmeisl, Z. W. Qu, H. Zhu, G. J. Kroes, J. K. Nørskov, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2007**, *607*, 83; c) J. Jiang, F. Sun, S. Zhou, W. Hu, H. Zhang, J. Dong, Z. Jiang, J. Zhao, J. Li, W. Yan, M. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2885.
- [5] H. Shin, H. Xiao, W. A. Goddard, 3rd, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 6745.
- [6] a) T. Loffler, A. Ludwig, J. Rossmeisl, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26894; b) J. K. Pedersen, T. A. A. Batchelor, D. Yan, L. E. J. Skjegstad, J. Rossmeisl, *Curr Opin Electrochem.* **2021**, *26*, 100651; c) J. A. Haber, E. Anzenburg, J. Yano, C. Kisielowski, J. M. Gregoire, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2015**, *5*, 1402307.
- [7] a) Y. Zhou, N. López, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 6254; b) D. Friebel, M. W. Louie, M. Bajdich, K. E. Sanwald, Y. Cai, A. M. Wise, M. J. Cheng, D. Sokaras, T. C. Weng, R. Alonso-Mori, R. C. Davis, J. R. Bargar, J. K. Norskov, A. Nilsson, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 1305; c) L. Trotochaud, S. L. Young, J. K. Ranney, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 6744; d) M. B. Stevens, C. D. M. Trang, L. J. Enman, J. Deng, S. W. Boettcher, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 11361.

16136829, 2023, 17, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202207472 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**www.small-journal.com**

- [8] a) L. Francas, S. Corby, S. Selim, D. Lee, C. A. Mesa, R. Godin, E. Pastor, I. E. L. Stephens, K. S. Choi, J. R. Durrant, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5208; b) B. Fei, Z. Chen, J. Liu, H. Xu, X. Yan, H. Qing, M. Chen, R. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2001963; c) S. Klaus, Y. Cai, M. W. Louie, L. Trotochaud, A. T. Bell, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2015**, *119*, 7243; d) M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329.
- [9] a) Z. P. Wu, H. Zhang, S. Zuo, Y. Wang, S. L. Zhang, J. Zhang, S. Q. Zang, X. W. D. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103004; b) F. Dionigi, Z. Zeng, I. Sinev, T. Merzdorf, S. Deshpande, M. B. Lopez, S. Kunze, I. Zegkinoglou, H. Sarodnik, D. Fan, A. Bergmann, J. Drnec, J. F. Araujo, M. Gliech, D. Teschner, J. Zhu, W. X. Li, J. Greeley, B. R. Cuenya, P. Strasser, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2522; c) W. Huang, J. Li, X. Liao, R. Lu, C. Ling, X. Liu, J. Meng, L. Qu, M. Lin, X. Hong, X. Zhou, S. Liu, Y. Zhao, L. Zhou, L. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200270; d) S. Niu, W. J. Jiang, Z. Wei, T. Tang, J. Ma, J. S. Hu, L. J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7005.
- [10] Y. Shi, W. Du, W. Zhou, C. Wang, S. Lu, S. Lu, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 22470.
- [11] S. Pei, Q. Wei, K. Huang, H. M. Cheng, W. Ren, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 145.
- [12] a) C. Kuai, Z. Xu, C. Xi, A. Hu, Z. Yang, Y. Zhang, C.-J. Sun, L. Li, D. Sokaras, C. Dong, S.-Z. Qiao, X.-W. Du, F. Lin, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 743; b) B. S. Yeo, A. T. Bell, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2012**, *116*, 8394.
- [13] a) M. Liu, K. A. Min, B. Han, L. Y. S. Lee, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2101281; b) J. Abed, S. Ahmadi, L. Laverdure, A. Abdellah, C. P. O'Brien, K. Cole, P. Sobrinho, D. Sinton, D. Higgins, N. J. Mosey, S. J. Thorpe, E. H. Sargent, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103812; c) F. A. Garcés-Pineda, M. Blasco-Ahicart, D. Nieto-Castro, N. López, J. R. Galán-Mascarós, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 519; d) S. Kitano, T. G. Noguchi, M. Nishihara, K. Kamitani, T. Sugiyama, S. Yoshioka, T. Miwa, K. Yoshizawa, A. Staykov, M. Yamauchi, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110552.
- [14] a) Y. K. Sun, Z. Chen, H. J. Noh, D. J. Lee, H. G. Jung, Y. Ren, S. Wang, C. S. Yoon, S. T. Myung, K. Amine, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 942; b) X. Liu, Z. H. Chen, H. Zhang, Y. Fan, F. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7041; c) X. Lyu, Y. Jia, X. Mao, D. Li, G. Li, L. Zhuang, X. Wang, D. Yang, Q. Wang, A. Du, X. Yao, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003493.
- [15] a) S. H. Lee, J. Kim, D. Y. Chung, J. M. Yoo, H. S. Lee, M. J. Kim, B. S. Mun, S. G. Kwon, Y. E. Sung, T. Hyeon, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*

- **2019**, *141*, 2035; b) R. Miao, B. Dutta, S. Sahoo, J. He, W. Zhong, S. A. Cetegen, T. Jiang, S. P. Alpay, S. L. Suib, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 13604.
- [16] Z. Tan, L. Sharma, R. Kakkar, T. Meng, Y. Jiang, M. Cao, *Inorg. Chem.* **2019**, *58*, 7615.
- [17] S. Piontek, C. Andronescu, A. Zaichenko, B. Konkena, K. junge Puring, B. Marler, H. Antoni, I. Sinev, M. Muhler, D. Mollenhauer, B. Roldan Cuenya, W. Schuhmann, U.-P. Apfel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 987.
- [18] Y. Wu, X. Liu, D. Han, X. Song, L. Shi, Y. Song, S. Niu, Y. Xie, J. Cai, S. Wu, J. Kang, J. Zhou, Z. Chen, X. Zheng, X. Xiao, G. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 1425.
- [19] a) W. Zhou, X.-J. Wu, X. Cao, X. Huang, C. Tan, J. Tian, H. Liu, J. Wang, H. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 2921; b) L. Zhang, Y. Yang, H. Zhu, H. M. Cheng, G. Liu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2022**, *608*, 599.
- [20] a) J. Masa, P. Weide, D. Peeters, I. Sinev, W. Xia, Z. Sun, C. Somsen, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1502313; b) H. Yang, L. Gong, H. Wang, C. Dong, J. Wang, K. Qi, H. Liu, X. Guo, B. Y. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5075; c) J. Masa, I. Sinev, H. Mistry, E. Ventosa, M. de la Mata, J. Arbiol, M. Muhler, B. Roldan Cuenya, W. Schuhmann, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700381.
- [21] C.-P. Wang, Y. Feng, H. Sun, Y. Wang, J. Yin, Z. Yao, X.-H. Bu, J. Zhu, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 7132.
- [22] P. W. Menezes, S. Yao, R. Beltran-Suito, J. N. Hausmann, P. V. Menezes, M. Driess, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 4640.
- [23] a) P. Zhang, L. Li, D. Nordlund, H. Chen, L. Fan, B. Zhang, X. Sheng, Q. Daniel, L. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 381; b) J. Zhang, T. Wang, D. Pohl, B. Rellinghaus, R. Dong, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 6702.
- [24] a) C. Liang, P. Zou, A. Nairan, Y. Zhang, J. Liu, K. Liu, S. Hu, F. Kang, H. J. Fan, C. Yang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 86; b) D. Voiry, M. Chhowalla, Y. Gogotsi, N. A. Kotov, Y. Li, R. M. Penner, R. E. Schaak, P. S. Weiss, *ACS Nano* **2018**, *12*, 9635.
- [25] G. Chen, Y. Zhu, H. M. Chen, Z. Hu, S. F. Hung, N. Ma, J. Dai, H. J. Lin, C. T. Chen, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900883.
- [26] B. Zhang, Z. Wu, W. Shao, Y. Gao, W. Wang, T. Ma, L. Ma, S. Li, C. Cheng, C. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *13*, 134.