---
source: Zhao 等 - 2023 - Deciphering the Space Charge Effect of the CoNiLDHFeOOH n–n Heterojunction for Efficient Electrocat.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 38.897s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:40:58.728143Z
---

# **Deciphering the Space Charge Effect of the CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n Heterojunction for Efficient Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution**

*Pandeng Zhao, Shaqi Fu, Yuancong Luo, Cheng Peng, Lingli Cheng,\* and Zheng Jiao\**

**Space charge transfer is an effective strategy to regulate the electron density of narrow bandgap semiconductors for enhancing electrocatalytic activity. Herein, the CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction hollow nanocages structure is constructed. The hollow structure provides abundant catalytic active sites and enhances mass transfer. The space charge region in the n–n heterojunction significantly promotes the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> and electron transfer; and the built-in electric field accelerates the electron transport, optimizes the electronic structure during the catalytic reaction process, and ensures the stability of surface charged active center sites in the heterojunction. Thus, CoNiLDH/FeOOH delivers an excellent oxygen evolution reaction (OER) overpotential of 250 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a small Tafel slope of 60 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, and superior electrocatalytic durability for 210 h at a high current density. Density functional theory calculations further verify that the space charge effect and built-in electric field in the n–n heterojunction of CoNiLDH/FeOOH can improve the electron transfer and lower the adsorption energy of OH<sup>−</sup> and the reaction energy barrier of the rate-determining step. This work provides a new fundamental understanding of the space charge effect of semiconductor heterojunction during the electrocatalytic process for developing more efficient OER electrocatalysts.**

#### **1. Introduction**

Water splitting through electrocatalysis is considered as a prospective strategy for electric conversion and storage. However, the practical application of water splitting is severely impeded due to the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) process, which

P. Zhao, S. Fu, Y. Luo, C. Peng, L. Cheng School of Environmental and Chemical Engineering Shanghai University Shanghai 200444, P. R. China E-mail: henglingli@t.shu.edu.cn Z. Jiao Shanghai Applied Radiation Institute Shanghai University

Shanghai 201800, P. R. China E-mail: zjiao@shu.edu.cn

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202305241

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202305241**

consists of a four-electron–proton transfer process causing sluggish kinetics and requiring higher overpotential. Nowadays, noble Pt/Ru/Ir-based catalysts with superior intrinsic OER activity are recognized as state-of-the-art electrocatalysts.[1] Due to the high cost, rare storage on earth, and poor durability of noble metal-based catalysts, non-noble metal-based catalysts with highly efficient, stable, and low-cost need to be developed to reduce the overpotential and accelerate the reaction kinetics.

Transitional metals (e.g., Fe, Co, and Ni) with the diversity 3d electrons and natural abundant have been conducted to prepare desirable non-noble metal-based electrocatalysts, such as oxides, sulfides, nitrides, phosphides, and (oxy)hydroxides.[2] However, the current electrocatalysts with intrinsic limitations cannot satisfy the requirement of practical applications, and it is necessary to develop efficient electrocatalysts for boosting OER performance. To address these problems, the rational design of the structure is one of the effective strategies to improve OER performance. For instance, hollow structures,

particularly promising candidates, feature large cavities and strong frameworks and greatly promote the exposure of the active site, thus enhancing the mass transfer.[3]

Besides, the surface electronic structure of prepared electrocatalysts is related to features in substantially enhancing OER intrinsic activity.[4] Accordingly, how to modulate the surface charge configuration to improve the catalytic activities of active sites itself in synthesized materials is still a high-profile subject in electrocatalytic reaction. Lately, strain modulation, heteroatom incorporation, and phase transition have been applied to regulate the electron transfer ability, electronic structure, and charge density.[5] Lee's group proposed that the oxygen vacancies in electrocatalysts could enrich the active sites with an optimized local electronic environment, thus enhancing the OER electrocatalytic performance.[6] In addition, the organic groups with different electrophilicity/nucleophilicity were also capable of modulating the electron structure of catalytic active sites.[7] Therefore, optimizing the electronic configuration of electrocatalysts is a feasible and efficient method to improve intrinsic catalytic activities. It is well known that the construction of semiconductor

heterojunction helps to achieve the thermal equilibrium state. In particular, the built-in interface electric field and opposite charge district on the interface are conducive to tailoring the electric structure of atoms nearby the heterojunction interface and enhancing the electrocatalytic performance.[8] And the space charge effect can lead to the electron transfer from the electron-rich sides to electron holes. Moreover, the charge transfer and targeted ions of adsorption during the OER process would also be affected by the charged interfaces.[9] Thus, engineering of different types of semiconductor heterojunction (n–n, p–p, and p–n heterojunctions) is regarded as a feasible tactic to regulate the electron configuration and reach enhancement of catalytic activity, which is attributed to the that the heterojunction can construct the powerful built-in electric field to accelerate the electrons transfer due to the large difference of Fermi energy level (*E*F).[10] The CoNilayered double hydroxide (CoNiLDH) as a typical n-type semiconductor is a desirable candidate for OER electrocatalyst.[11] When it contacts with another n-type semiconductor, the n–n heterojunction can be induced construction and the different energy levels of *E*<sup>F</sup> of two n-type semiconductors impel the *E*<sup>F</sup> to align and bend the band edge under the powerful interface effect to reach the thermal equilibrium. Due to opposite charge regions on the heterojunction interface, the built-in electric field will be constructed, this space charge effect can promote the electrons transfer to optimize the electronic structure of the interface and regulate the adsorption ability of OH<sup>−</sup> during the electrocatalytic process, thus improving the OER catalytic activity.

Herein, CoNiLDH/FeOOH hollow nanocages with abundant nanosheets and an open n–n heterojunction structure were successfully fabricated through cation exchanges using zeolitic imidazolate framework-67 (ZIF-67) as precursors. The space charge effect in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH greatly accelerates the electron transfer and the built-in interface electric field modulates the local electron configuration in the n–n heterojunction. Meanwhile, the unique hollow nanocages also provide sufficient active sites and promote mass transfer during the OER process. Accordingly, the CoNiLDH/FeOOH exhibits remarkable OER performance, showing a low overpotential of 250 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a small Tafel slope of 60 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1. Moreover, the results of density functional theory (DFT) calculations demonstrate that the space charge region can lower the adsorption energy of OH<sup>−</sup> and the reaction energy of the ratedetermining step (RDS). In brief, this work provides a fundamental insight into the space charge effect and a strategy for rationally developing more effective OER electrocatalysts.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

To deeply understand the construction of n–n heterojunction and space charge distribution, UV–vis spectroscopy, Mott–Schottky (M–S) plots, and valence band spectra measurements were carried out the construct energy band structure diagrams for exploring the heterojunction interface feature between the CoNiLDH and FeOOH. The M–S plots of CoNiLDH and FeOOH (Figure S1, Supporting Information) show the negative slopes, representing apparent n-type semiconductors manifest with the flat-band potential of −1.26 and −0.17 V (vs RHE, −3.26 and −4.34 eV vs vacuum level), respectively. Due to the conduction band (CB) potential (*E*CB) of n-type semiconductors having differences of 0.2 V to their respective Fermi level,[12] the *E*CB for CoNiLDH and FeOOH can be estimated to be −3.06 and −4.14 eV, respectively. The bandgap (*E*g) energies of CoNiLDH and FeOOH were calculated for 2.54 and 2.01 eV, respectively, which were determined from the Tauc plots (Figure S2, Supporting Information) according to *ahv* = Δ(*hv*–*E*g) *n*/2. Consequently, the valence band (VB) potential (*E*VB) of CoNiLDH and FeOOH also was obtained through *E*<sup>g</sup> = *E*CB *– E*VB. Furthermore, the location of the Fermi level can be obtained from the valence band spectra (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Therefore, the energy band structure of n-type semiconductors CoNiLDH and FeOOH can be proposed (**Figure** 1a). A significant difference in *E*<sup>F</sup> can be observed between the CoNiLDH and FeOOH under noncontact conditions. After the combination of two semiconductors forming an n–n heterojunction, the electron voluntarily flows from CoNiLDH to FeOOH until their *E*<sup>F</sup> transforms to be aligned, leading to the energy level shifting and band edge bending due to the formation of a strong space-charge region with a built-in potential of 0.65 V (Figure 1b). Furthermore, an efficient positively charged active center could be generated at the CoNiLDH surface, which is conducive to the transformation of electrons from OH<sup>−</sup> in the electrolyte to the VB of CoNiLDH. Afterward, the electrons will recombine with the holes (h<sup>+</sup>) in the VB of CoNiLDH, and then redundant electrons at CB of CoNiLDH will recombine with the h<sup>+</sup> at the VB of FeOOH to recover and keep the charge balance of CoNiLDH, while the VB of FeOOH with charge unbalance obtain the holes compensation through applying enough potential via the external circuit. As a result, the CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction with an intimate contact form a strong interfacial electric field, which not only enhances the conductivity and the efficient electrons transformation for effectively modulating the surface electronic structure of FeOOH and CoNiLDH but also enhances the adsorption of reaction intermediates in the charge active center sites, thus improving the OER catalytic activity.

The detailed fabrication route for CoNiLDH/FeOOH via simple cation exchange strategies under room temperature without extra energy is schematically depicted in **Figure 2**. ZIF-67 with a cube feature was applied as the starting material. The ZIF-67 was converted to CoNiLDH coated on the ZIF-67 core–shell structure through a rational cation exchange/etching process using nickel nitrate. During this process, the portion of ZIF-67 was etched with proton generating from the hydrolysis of nickel nitrates and released Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> ions, while Co2<sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> coprecipitated with OH<sup>−</sup> to form CoNiLDH nanosheets on the outer shell of ZIF-67. By further immersing ZIF-67@CoNiLDH into the Fe2<sup>+</sup> containing methanol solution, the interior ZIF-67 was thoroughly etched by the protons introduced from the hydrolysis of the Fe2<sup>+</sup> to form hollow structures, meanwhile, the Fe2<sup>+</sup> were oxidized by dissolved O2 in the solution to generate FeOOH. Finally, the CoNiLDH/FeOOH nanocages with unique hollow structures were obtained.

The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) characterizations (**Figure 3**a) show that the as-prepared ZIF-67 exhibits unique cube morphology with a smooth surface and an average size of ≈750 nm (Figure S4a, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images demonstrate the solid feature of ZIF-67 (Figure S4b, Supporting Information). Notably, after the cation exchange reaction, the ZIF-67@CoNiLDH particles still inherit their original cube shape

www.small-journal.com

Figure 1. a) The energy diagrams of CoNiLDH and FeOOH. b) The proposed mechanism for OER in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH n-n heterojunction under the condition of applying enough potential via the external circuit 1.

with a rougher surface composed of nanosheets due to the formation of CoNiLDH (Figure 3b). From the crack particles (Figure S5a, Supporting Information), the inner ZIF-67 core preserves a cube structure with a smooth surface, while the outer shell is composed of interconnected nanosheets, demonstrating the formation of a core-shell structure. In addition, the TEM image (Figure 3e) reveals the obvious core-shell structure of ZIF-67@CoNiLDH. The elemental distribution spectroscopy images indicate that Co distributes on the whole particles, while Ni only appears on the outer shell (Figure S5c-e, Supporting Information), further confirming that the CoNiLDH only exists on the outer shell. After the reaction between the Fe2+ and ZIF-67@CoNiLDH, SEM images exhibit that CoNiLDH/FeOOH retains the cubic structure and rough shell (Figure 3c; Figure S6a, Supporting Information). However, the TEM images (Figure 3f,g; Figures S6b and S7, Supporting Information) show the hollow structure with a shell thickness of ≈40 nm, where it still maintains the nanosheet structure comprised of interconnected features with distinct spatial distance. Therefore, the hollow structure can provide a large contact area between the active sites and electrolytes, expose the adequate catalytic site, and accelerate the mass transfer during the OER process, thus improving the catalytic performance with enhanced stability of CoNiLDH/FeOOH.

To get more structural information on the CoNiLDH/FeOOH, the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) characterization was conducted to verify the n-n heterojunction interface. HRTEM (Figure 3h,i) images show the well-resolved lattice fringes of the interplanar distances of 0.206 and 0.211 nm, corresponding to the (107) plane of CoNiLDH and the (321) plane of FeOOH, respectively. Notably, there are distinctly different surfaces on the two sides of the interface, where the CoNiLDH is tightly connected to FeOOH, revealing the successful formation of an n-n heterojunction interface between two different phases. In addition, CoNiLDH and FeOOH both mainly exist in the form of an amorphous phase which has been proven to be more efficient activity than the crystalline counterparts.<sup>[13]</sup> The high-angle

**Figure 2.** Schematic illustration of the synthesis of CoNiLDH/FeOOH.

**Figure 3.** SEM images of a) ZIF-67, b) ZIF-67@CoNiLDH, and c) CoNiLDH/FeOOH. TEM images of d) ZIF-67, e) ZIF-67@CoNiLDH, and f,g) CoNiLDH/FeOOH, and h) HRTEM image of CoNiLDH/FeOOH. i) Profiles inside the rectangular area of the HRTEM image. j–n) HAADF-STEM image and elemental mappings images of CoNiLDH/FeOOH.

annular dark-field STEM (HAADF-STEM) and elemental mapping results (Figure 3j–n) exhibit the homogeneous distribution of Co, Ni, Fe, and O elements on the hollow nanocages. These results indicate the successful conversion from ZIF-67@CoNiLDH core–shell structure to CoNiLDH/FeOOH n– n heterojunction hollow cages. To elucidate the contributions of CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction, the CoNiLDH, and FeOOH had been prepared through modifying reaction conditions. The CoNiLDH also displays the hollow cages and the shell was composed of interconnected nanosheets, which was similar to CoNiLDH/FeOOH hollow cages morphology (Figure S8, Supporting Information). And the FeOOH exhibits nanoneedles solid structure, which is different morphology from other samples (Figure S9, Supporting Information).

To better understand the evolution of crystallography during the synthesis process, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis was carried out. Compared to the pristine ZIF-67, the new peak at 60.9° assigned to the CoNiLDH phase appeared, indicating the formation of CoNiLDH after the cation exchange reaction with nickel nitrate (Figure S10, Supporting Information). Suffering a further etching process, the peaks of ZIF-67 disappeared and the diffraction peaks match well with the CoNiLDH and FeOOH (**Figure 4**a), suggesting the successful fabrication of CoNiLDH/FeOOH. Besides, the diffraction peaks of CoNiLDH hollow cages and FeOOH are also indexed to correspond to their standard PDF card. Raman spectra (Figure 4b) of CoNiLDH/FeOOH also deliver the significant feature of CoNiLDH and FeOOH, the two typical peaks at 463 and 527 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are assigned to the Ni(OH)2 and the broad peak at around 714 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> indicate the presence of FeOOH in the composite.[14]

The surface electronic structures and valence states of the asobtained CoNiLDH, FeOOH, and CoNiLDH/FeOOH were characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The survey spectrum shows the existence of Ni, Co, Fe, and O elements in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH composite (Figure 4c). In addition, the tiny changes in the surface electronic properties of the as-synthesized materials are also monitored through highresolution XPS characterization. According to the Co 2p spectrum of CoNiLDH/FeOOH (Figure 4d), the peaks center at 796.5 and 781.0 eV are attributed to Co 2p1/2 and Co 2p3/2 orbitals of Co3<sup>+</sup>, and peaks located at 797.8 and 783.8 eV are ascribed to Co 2p1/2 and Co 2p3/2 orbitals of Co2<sup>+</sup>, while the other peaks are satellite.[15] Compared with CoNiLDH, the peaks of Co 2p shift to higher binding energy, revealing more electrons donor. In Ni 2p spectra (Figure 4e), the main peaks at 855.7 and 873.1 eV are derived from Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, while the two peaks located at 857.6 and 875.1 eV are assigned to the Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 of Ni3<sup>+</sup>. Besides, the residual four peaks are attributed to

Figure 4. a) XRD patterns, b) Raman spectrum, and c) XPS survey spectrum of CoNiLDH/FeOOH, CoNiLDH, and FeOOH. High-resolution XPS spectrum of d) Co 2p, e) Ni 2p, and f) Fe 2p. g) Schematic diagrams of electronic coupling between Co, Ni, and Fe in CoNiLDH/FeOOH.

the satellite peaks of Ni 2p.<sup>[16]</sup> Compared with CoNiLDH, these peaks of CoNiLDH/FeOOH shift slightly higher binding energy, indicating the electron transfer from Ni to Fe and meaning the structural transformation from Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to Ni<sup>2+ $\delta$ </sup>OOH. As for the Fe 2p (Figure 4f), the observation peaks  $\approx$ 710.8 and 723.8 eV are assigned to Fe<sup>2+</sup>, and peaks of Fe<sup>3+</sup> locate at 713.5 and 726.4 eV. And the satellite peaks center at 716.5, 729.6, 719.7, and 733.7 eV.<sup>[17]</sup> Notably, Fe 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Fe 2p<sub>1/2</sub> in CoNiLDH/FeOOH negatively move to different degrees compared with FeOOH, presenting massive electron accumulation around the Fe atoms. These different changes in binding energy embody the different surface electronic states of the as-prepared materials. After the construction of the n-n heterojunction, the n-type semiconduc-

tor FeOOH in the composite is inclined to serve as an electron acceptor, causing the negative shifts of binding energy, while the CoNiLDH mainly acts as an electron donor resulting in the generation of a high oxidation state of Ni species. Namely, the formation of CoNiLDH/FeOOH n—n heterojunction promotes the more electrons transfer from CoNiLDH to FeOOH, further resulting in the downward migration of d-band center related to the Fermi level downward migration and generation of more effective charged active sites centers. Thus, the chemical adsorption and desorption of intermediates can be optimized and the electrocatalysis kinetics can be enhanced, which is conducive to boosting the OER performance. Moreover, the binding energy changes are well explained with their electronic structures

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 52, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202305241 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

(Figure 4g). The valence electron configuration of Ni2<sup>+</sup> is 3d<sup>8</sup> with a low-spin state, so the -symmetry (t2g) d-orbitals of Ni2<sup>+</sup> are fully occupied, the dominant interaction between the bridging Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and O2<sup>−</sup> is the electron repulsion. And the -symmetry (t2g) d-orbitals of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> have unpaired electrons, which are attributed to that the valence configuration of Co2<sup>+</sup> is 3d<sup>7</sup> with a high spin state, and the Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> interacts with the bridging O2- via -donation. As such, the electron repulsion between Ni2<sup>+</sup> and O2<sup>−</sup> can enhance the strength of -donation via Co–O in the CoNiLDH, promoting the partial electrons transfer from Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Co2<sup>+</sup> and increasing the electron density of Co, which slightly changes the valence configuration of Co with medium spin state and induces the generation of weak electron repulsion between Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and O2<sup>−</sup>. Meanwhile, five unpaired electrons in the -symmetry (t2g) dorbitals of Fe3<sup>+</sup> show a high spin state, the -donation via Fe– O can be enhanced due to the weak electron repulsion between Co2<sup>+</sup> and O2<sup>−</sup>, suggesting the electron further transfer from Co to Fe. In addition, the -donation via Fe–O can be directly enhanced by the electron repulsion between Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and O2<sup>−</sup>, triggering the charge transfer from Ni to Fe, as indicated by the XPS results.

Except for the electronic structure affecting the electrocatalysis performance, the hydrophilicity of catalysts is also related to the catalytic performance.[18] Before the introduction of FeOOH, the contact angle of CoNiLDH is 31.7°, and then the CoNiLDH/FeOOH is found to be super-hydrophilicity with a contact angle of 0°, which may be attributed to the construction of heterostructure between CoNiLDH and FeOOH enriching the contact of reactants. (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The significant change in wettability sufficiently ensures the infiltration of the catalysts and greatly accelerates hydroxyl group transfer as well as oxygen release, thus improving the electrocatalysis performance.

The oxygen evolution reaction performances of as-prepared materials were investigated in 1.0 m KOH via a typical threeelectrode system. As the linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) curves of these electrocatalysts were compared, and as expected, largely improved catalytic performance for OER was observed by the formation of CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction. The CoNiLDH/FeOOH shows the lowest overpotential of 250, 296, and 333 mV to arrive at required current densities of 10, 30, and 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is significantly superior to CoNiLDH, FeOOH, and NF at identical conditions (**Figure 5**a,b). Moreover, it is generally accepted that the Tafel slope can be applied to characterize OER kinetics. The Tafel slope of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is 60 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is much lower than that of CoNiLDH (90 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), FeOOH (80 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and NF (103 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) (Figure 5c), demonstrating the enhanced OER kinetics of CoNiLDH/FeOOH. Compared to commercial RuO2 (Figure S12, Supporting Information), the overpotential and tafel slope of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is much lower, suggesting its excellent electrocatalytic performance. The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) was determined by measuring the double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) obtained from the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves at different scan rates in the non-Faradaic region (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The CoNiLDH/FeOOH delivers the largest *C*dl value (1.82 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and ECSA value (1.37 cm2) among the as-prepared materials (Figure 5d; Figure S13, Supporting Information), suggesting that the unique hollow cage structure with interconnected nanosheets is beneficial to providing more exposed catalytic active sites for OER. To exclude the geometry effect, the LSV and Tafel slope is more reliable to investigate through ECSA-normalized current density. After normalization by ECSA, the CoNiLDH/FeOOH delivers lower overpotential (259 mV) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and Tafel slope (91 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) than that of CoNiLDH and FeOOH (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The CoNiLDH/FeOOH exhibits the best OER intrinsic activity. To investigate the average activity of a single active site, the turnover frequency (TOF) was calculated based on the active site number, which is measured from CV curves (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The CoNiLDH/FeOOH shows the highest TOF value at an overpotential of 250, 300, and 350 mV (Figure 5e), indicating the enhanced average activity of active center sites after constructing n–n heterojunction. The multicurrent steps chronopotentiometry curves shown in Figure 5f indicate better stability under different current densities and the superior mass transportation property during the electrocatalytic process. Given long-term stability, no obvious decrease in the constant current density of 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> could maintain for 210 h (Figure 5g), affording remarkable durability for CoNiLDH/FeOOH. Moreover, the OER activity of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is superior to those of many recently reported LDH-based catalysts (Figure 5h).

To track the interface reaction process between the electrocatalyst and electrolyte during the OER process, operando EIS was carried out. The Bode plots of CoNiLDH and CoNiFeLDH at different frequencies represent the different electrochemical behavior of electrocatalyst electrooxidation (high-frequency) and OER reactions (low-frequency).[19] As shown in **Figure 6**a, when the applied potential increases from 1.024 to 1.224 V, the phase angles variation of CoNiLDH/FeOOH in a high-frequency region is indistinctive, representing the existence of a high-frequency interface between the pristine electrocatalyst (CoNiLDH/FeOOH) and diffusion double layer (DDL) (Figure S16a, Supporting Information). The phase angles at the high-frequency region for CoNiLDH/FeOOH decrease obviously (1.224 to 1.374 V), which reveals the violent electrooxidation reaction without the OER process.[20] The result indicates that the electrooxidation reaction of the original electrocatalyst occurs at the high-frequency interface (Figure S16b, Supporting Information), where the real active sites (Ni<sup>2</sup>+OOH and Fe3<sup>+</sup>OOH) of OER gradually appeared. With the potential raising to 1.374 V, the phase angle shifts from high-frequency to low-frequency, indicating that OER occurs at the low-frequency interface between the reconstruction layer and DDL (Figure 6d). And the phase angle decreases with the increasing of potential (1.399 to 1.499 V), representing the more electrons transfer and faster kinetics of CoNiLDH/FeOOH during the OER process (Figure 6e). Therefore, the real active sites of OER are the electrooxidation species of Ni<sup>2</sup>+OOH and Fe3<sup>+</sup>OOH derived from CoNiLDH/FeOOH during the electrocatalysis process. Notably, similar variations also occur on the CoNiLDH and FeOOH, suggesting similar electrochemical behaviors. And the apparent transition peak at 1.399 V on CoNiLDH/FeOOH for OER is significantly lower than that of CoNiLDH (1.449 V) and FeOOH (1.424 V) (Figure 6b,c), demonstrating that the space charge effect in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH inducing the regulation of electronic structure which accelerates the reaction kinetics and declines the onset potential of OER. In addition, the fitting electrochemical impedance spectroscopy

**Figure 5.** Electrocatalytic properties of the electrode for OER. a) LSV plots, b) the potential at different current densities, and c) Tafel plots of CoNiLDH/FeOOH, CoNiLDH, FeOOH, and NF. d) Double-layer capacitance Cdl and e) TOF of CoNiLDH/FeOOH, CoNiLDH, and FeOOH at different overpotentials. f) The chronopotentiometry responses at different current densities (10–100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> with an increment of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) and g) chronopotentiometry curves of CoNiLDH/FeOOH at 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. h) The catalytic performance comparison of previous reports.

at an overpotential of 244 mV (**Figure 7**a; Figure S17, Supporting Information) shows that the charge transfer resistance of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is 1.935 Ω, which is significantly lower than CoNiLDH (23.340 Ω), FeOOH (3.219 Ω), and RuO2 (7.390 Ω), suggesting that the built-in interfacial electric field in the n–n heterojunction can diminish the charge transfer resistance and enhance the reaction kinetics.

The apparent activation energy (*E*app) of CoNiLDH/FeOOH was conducted to evaluate the impact of n–n heterojunction through temperature-dependent kinetic analysis. The LSV curves of CoNiLDH/FeOOH, CoNiLDH, and FeOOH were collected in 1.0 m KOH in the temperature from 30 to 70 °C, the significantly enhanced performance with the increase of temperature can be observed (Figure S18a–c, Supporting Information). According to the Arrhenius equation (Equation (1)),[21] the corresponding parameter can be calculated at fixed overpotential and further investigate the effect on the catalysis

$$i = A_{app} \exp(E_{app}/RT) \tag{1}$$

where *i* represents the current density, *A*app and *E*app are the apparent pre-exponential factor and apparent activation energy, respectively, *R* is the gas constant (8.314 J K<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> mol<sup>−</sup>1), and *T* stands for the Kelvin temperature (K). Therefore, the *E*app at different overpotentials can be calculated by fitting the slope of the Arrhenius equation (Figure S16d–f, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 7b, the *E*app of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is lower than those of CoNiLDH and FeOOH at different overpotential, suggesting the optimization in enthalpy of activation and generation of intermediates after the construction of n–n heterojunction.[20b]

The ex situ XPS survey spectrum shows the coexistence of Co, Ni, and Fe elements, where the new strong peak at 689.1 eV is attributed to the F 1s that comes from the Nafion after the OER process (Figure S19, Supporting Information). The practical reaction and the real active site of the catalyst during the OER process have been the subject of intense debate.[20a] According to the previous reports, the Ni2<sup>+</sup> or Fe3<sup>+</sup> in the composite may be electrooxidized into OER active sites such as Ni<sup>2</sup>+ and Fe3<sup>+</sup> . Thus, the surface chemical states of the CoNiLDH/FeOOH were further

Figure 6. Bode plots for a) CoNiLDH/FeOOH, b) CoNiLDH, and c) FeOOH during OER. d,e) Schematic illustrations of the interface evolution of CoNiLDH/FeOOH at the high potential.

analyzed to identify the real active sites by XPS measurement after the durability test. The main peaks of Fe 2p and Ni 2p shift to the higher binding energy (Figure 8a,b), revealing the valence state transformation from  $Ni^{2+}$  to  $Ni^{2+\delta}$  and  $Fe^{3+}$  to Fe<sup>3+ $\delta$ </sup>, representing the higher population of active Ni<sup>2+ $\delta$ </sup>OOH and Fe<sup>3+δ</sup>OOH species in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH catalyst, which may have contributed to its better OER performance. In addition, the negative shift of Co 2p demonstrates the existence of Co<sup>3+</sup> (Figure 8c). To further explore the influence of n-n heterojunction in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH, the Raman spectrum was collected after the OER process, revealing the composition and structure variation of catalysts. The doublet strong peaks at  $\approx$ 459 and 527 cm<sup>-1</sup> moved to  $\approx$ 467 and 535 cm<sup>-1</sup>, indicating that the shorter Ni-O bond caused the lattice shrinkage during the tran-

sition of Ni<sup>2+</sup> to Ni<sup>2+ $\delta$ </sup> (Figure S20, Supporting Information). And the new doublet peaks are attributed to the formation of the mix phase of γ-NiOOH (Ni ≥ +3) and β-NiOOH (Ni<sup>2+δ</sup>: +2 ≤ Ni  $\leq +3$ ).<sup>[22]</sup> Note that  $\beta$ -NiOOH intermediate can provide higher intrinsic OER activity compared to  $\gamma$ -NiOOH. Specifically, the lower ratio of the intensity of two characterization peaks  $(I_B/I_S)$ in CoNiLDH/FeOOH at ≈459 and 527 cm<sup>-1</sup> suggests a more relative quantity of  $\beta$ -NiOOH intermediate.<sup>[23]</sup> Thus, the construction of n-n heterojunction in CoNiLDH/FeOOH significantly improved the production of the relative quantity of  $\beta$ -NiOOH intermediate (Figure 7d). Additionally, SEM and TEM images reveal that the hollow nanocage structures maintain well after the durability test, ensuring the abundant active sites, which boost the excellent performance during the long-term test (Figure S21a,b,

**Figure 7.** a) Nyquist plots of CoNiLDH/FeOOH, CoNiLDH, and FeOOH at 1.474 V versus RHE. b) The corresponding *E*app at different overpotential.

Supporting Information). More importantly, the HRTEM image (Figure S21c, Supporting Information) after the OER test presented well lattice fringes with the distance of 0.187 and 0.211 nm, which are attributed to the (107) and (321) plane of -NiOOH and FeOOH, respectively. It confirms the generation of -NiOOH during the OER process.

To further elucidate the underlying mechanism of the CoNiLDH/FeOOH for the excellent OER catalytic activity by space charge effect in the n–n heterojunction, DFT calculations were conducted on the model structure. Due to the high degree of lattice matching of the (001) facet of CoNiLDH and (010) facet of FeOOH, two facets were selected as models. The differential charge density of CoNiLDH/FeOOH shows the significant charge accumulation around the FeOOH as well as dispersion of electron states around the CoNiLDH, suggesting the electron transfer at the n–n heterojunction interface from CoNiLDH to FeOOH (**Figure 9**a), which is consistent with the energy diagrams and XPS results. Additionally, this result also demonstrates that the charge active sites were produced on the n–n heterojunction interface, and forming the space charge region

**Figure 8.** High-resolution XPS spectrum of a) Ni 2p, b) Fe 2p, and c) Co 2p. d) Raman spectrum of CoNiLDH/FeOOH and CoNiLDH after OER test.

**Figure 9.** a) Charge density difference in the interface of CoNiLDH/FeOOH, the yellow and blue zones represent the charge accumulation or dispersion, respectively. b) Schematic illustration of the catalytic mechanism for alkaline OER on the CoNiLDH/FeOOH. c) Free energy diagram for OER of the CoNiLDH and CoNiLDH/FeOOH at zero potential (*U* = 0). d) Predicted reaction energies for elementary OER steps over the CoNiLDH and CoNiLDH/FeOOH at an external bias of 1.23 V. e) Schematic illustration of the mechanism for boosting OER electrocatalytic performance of CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction hollow nanocages.

with an interfacial electronic field accelerated the electron transfer from CoNiLDH to FeOOH (Figure 9e). This will be favorable for modulating the charge separation and optimization of the electronic structure for generating the -NiOOH, thus being beneficial to enhance the catalytic reaction kinetics for excellent OER performance. As shown in Figure 9b, the proposed fourelectron OER mechanism of the optimized structures of the intermediates in the free-energy landscape of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is revealed. According to the OER reaction paths, the fundamental insight for OER catalytic activity enhancement was further studied using the intermediate free energy on the CoNiLDH and CoNiLDH/FeOOH models. Generally, the RDS of the pathway is the largest Gibbs free energy value (Δ*G*).[3b] Figure 9c,d exhibits that the Δ*G* for the formation of \*OOH from \*O of CoNiLDH and **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

16136829, 2023, 52, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202305241 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

CoNiLDH/FeOOH is the largest in the different steps of \*OH, \*O, \*OOH, and O2, suggesting that the generation of \*OOH is the RDS. Moreover, CoNiLDH/FeOOH shows a lower Gibbs free energy of RDS (2.18 eV) than that of CoNiLDH (2.43 eV), and the calculation OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption energy of CoNiLDH/FeOOH is significantly smaller than that of pure CoNiLDH, confirming that the space charge region which was generated in the CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction can optimize the surface electronic configuration, enhance the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup>, and reduce the Gibbs free energy barrier of RDS to accelerate the catalytic kinetics, thus enhancing the OER performance.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, the hollow nanocages CoNiLDH/FeOOH n–n heterojunction was successfully prepared and proved as a high performance alkaline OER electrocatalyst. Noticeably, the CoNiLDH/FeOOH exhibits superior intrinsic activity and durability, which only required a low overpotential of 250 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and remained stable for 210 h at 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Experimental and DFT calculations confirm that the large Fermi level differences induce the formation of the built-in electric field, which not only can accelerate the electrons transfer for promoting the generation of high electrocatalytic activity species -NiOOH but also form opposite space charge region in the n–n heterojunction, promoting the production of positive charge active site and the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup>, thus reducing the Gibbs free energy of RDS during the OER process and enhancing the intrinsic activity of CoNiLDH/FeOOH. Additionally, hollow nanocages also can provide abundant active sites and accelerate mass transfer, improving the OER catalytic performance. Briefly, the fundamental insight of semiconductor heterojunction and space charge effect on electrocatalysis in this work provides ideas to design highly efficient non-noble metal-based electrocatalysts.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was jointly supported by the Belt and Road Initiatives International Cooperation Project (No. 20640770300) and Shanghai Technical Service Center for Advanced Ceramics Structure Design and Precision Manufacturing (No. 20DZ2294000). The authors also appreciate the High Performance Computing Center of Shanghai University, and Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Intelligent Computing System (No. 19DZ2252600) for providing the computing resources and technical support.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

built-in electric field, hollow structures, n–n heterojunction, oxygen evolution reaction, space charge effect

> Received: June 22, 2023 Revised: August 4, 2023 Published online: August 27, 2023

- [1] a) Y. Liu, Y. Ying, L. Fei, Y. Liu, Q. Hu, G. Zhang, S. Y. Pang, W. Lu, C. L. Mak, X. Luo, L. Zhou, M. Wei, H. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 8136; b) Z. Y. Wu, F. Y. Chen, B. Li, S. W. Yu, Y. Z. Finfrock, D. M. Meira, Q. Q. Yan, P. Zhu, M. X. Chen, T. W. Song, Z. Yin, H. W. Liang, S. Zhang, G. Wang, H. Wang, *Nat. Mater.* **2022**, *20*, 100.
- [2] a) Q. Liang, J. Chen, F. Wang, Y. Li, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *424*, 213488; b) 424, 213488 Hao, W. Yang, Z. Peng, C. Zhang, Z. Huang, W. Shi, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 4214; c) A.-L. Wang, H. Xu, G.-R. Li, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2016**, *1*, 445; d) W. Li, J. Liu, P. Guo, H. Li, B. Fei, Y. Guo, H. Pan, D. Sun, F. Fang, R. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102314; e) B. Qiu, L. Cai, Y. Wang, Z. Lin, Y. Zuo, M. Wang, Y. Chai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1706008; f) D. He, X. Song, W. Li, C. Tang, J. Liu, Z. Ke, C. Jiang, X. Xiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 6929.
- [3] a) Y. Zhao, Y. Guo, X. F. Lu, D. Luan, X. Gu, X. W. D. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203442; b) Y. Liu, G. Chen, R. Ge, K. Pei, C. Song, W. Li, Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, L. Feng, R. Che, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200726; c) Y. Chen, L. Shen, C. Wang, S. Feng, N. Zhang, S. Xiang, T. Feng, M. Yang, K. Zhang, B. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *274*, 119112.
- [4] a) Z. Li, Y. Zhou, M. Xie, H. Cheng, T. Wang, J. Chen, Y. Lu, Z. Tian, Y. Lai, G. Yu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *135*, 202217815; b) H. Shi, X. Y. Sun, Y. Liu, S. P. Zeng, Q. H. Zhang, L. Gu, T. H. Wang, G. F. Han, Z. Wen, Q. R. Fang, X. Y. Lang, Q. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214412; c) X. Li, H. Zhang, Q. Hu, W. Zhou, J. Shao, X. Jiang, C. Feng, H. Yang, C. He, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202300478.
- [5] a) J. R. Petrie, V. R. Cooper, J. W. Freeland, T. L. Meyer, Z. Zhang, D. A. Lutterman, H. N. Lee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 2488; b) Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 329; c) X. Zheng, X. Han, Y. Cao, Y. Zhang, D. Nordlund, J. Wang, S. Chou, H. Liu, L. Li, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000607.
- [6] Y. Liu, H. T. D. Bui, A. R. Jadhav, T. Yang, S. Saqlain, Y. Luo, J. Yu, A. Kumar, H. Wang, L. Wang, V. Q. Bui, M. G. Kim, Y. D. Kim, H. Lee, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2010718.
- [7] a) W. Huang, J. Li, X. Liao, R. Lu, C. Ling, X. Liu, J. Meng, L. Qu, M. Lin, X. Hong, X. Zhou, S. Liu, Y. Zhao, L. Zhou, L. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200270; b) Y. Zhou, S. Liu, Y. Gu, G. H. Wen, J. Ma, J. L. Zuo, M. Ding, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 14071.
- [8] a) D. J. Dick, A. J. Heeger, Y. Yang, Q. Pei, *Adv. Mater.* **1996**, *8*, 985; b) Y. Zeng, Z. Cao, J. Liao, H. Liang, B. Wei, X. Xu, H. Xu, J. Zheng, W. Zhu, L. Cavallo, Z. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *292*, 120160.
- [9] M. Gu, L. Jiang, S. Zhao, H. Wang, M. Lin, X. Deng, X. Huang, A. Gao, X. Liu, P. Sun, X. Zhang, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 15425.
- [10] Y. Zhang, L. You, Q. Liu, Y. Li, T. Li, Z. Xue, G. Li, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 2765.
- [11] X. Zhang, F. Yan, X. Ma, C. Zhu, Y. Wang, Y. Xie, S. L. Chou, Y. Huang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102141.
- [12] K. He, T. Tadesse Tsega, X. Liu, J. Zai, X. H. Li, X. Liu, W. Li, N. Ali, X. Qian, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 11903.
- [13] L. Kuai, J. Geng, C. Chen, E. Kan, Y. Liu, Q. Wang, B. Geng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 7547.
- [14] a) M. Chen, H. Li, C. Wu, Y. Liang, J. Qi, J. Li, E. Shangguan, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2206407; b) C. F. Li, L. J. Xie, J. W. Zhao, L. F. Gu, H. B. Tang, L. Zheng, G. R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*

- **2022**, *61*, 202116934; c) B. Wang, X. Han, C. Guo, J. Jing, C. Yang, Y. Li, A. Han, D. Wang, J. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *298*, 120580.
- [15] a) T. Dai, X. Zhang, M. Sun, B. Huang, N. Zhang, P. Da, R. Yang, Z. He, W. Wang, P. Xi, C. H. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2102593; b) Y. Zhang, Z. Li, K. Zhang, Z. Wu, F. Gao, Y. Du, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *590*, 153102.
- [16] a) Y. Hu, G. Luo, L. Wang, X. Liu, Y. Qu, Y. Zhou, F. Zhou, Z. Li, Y. Li, T. Yao, C. Xiong, B. Yang, Z. Yu, Y. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *11*, 2002816; b) Z. Qiu, C.-W. Tai, G. A. Niklasson, T. Edvinsson, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 572.
- [17] a) H. Li, Q. Zhou, F. Liu, W. Zhang, Z. Tan, H. Zhou, Z. Huang, S. Jiao, Y. Kuang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2019**, *255*, 117755; b) X.-Y. Zhang, F.-T. Li, Y.-W. Dong, B. Dong, F.-N. Dai, C.-G. Liu, Y.-M. Chai, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *315*, 121571.

- [18] N. Zhang, Y. Hu, L. An, Q. Li, J. Yin, J. Li, R. Yang, M. Lu, S. Zhang, P. Xi, C. H. Yan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202207217.
- [19] M. E. G. Lyons, M. P. Brandon, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2009**, *631*, 62.
- [20] a) W. Chen, B. Wu, Y. Wang, W. Zhou, Y. Li, T. Liu, C. Xie, L. Xu, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Li, J. Liu, Y. Zou, R. Chen, C. Chen, J. Zheng, Y. Li, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6428; b) X. Chen, Q. Wang, Y. Cheng, H. Xing, J. Li, X. Zhu, L. Ma, Y. Li, D. Liu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2112674.
- [21] C.-F. Li, L.-J. Xie, J.-W. Zhao, L.-F. Gu, J.-Q. Wu, G.-R. Li, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *306*, 121097.
- [22] M. Han, C. Wang, J. Zhong, J. Han, N. Wang, A. Seifitokaldani, Y. Yu, Y. Liu, X. Sun, A. Vomiero, H. Liang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *301*, 120764.
- [23] a) M. W. Louie, A. T. Bell, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12329; b) B. S. Yeo, A. T. Bell, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2012**, *116*, 8394.