---
source: Zhao 等 - 2024 - Stabilizing Lattice Oxygen through Mn Doping in NiCo2 O4‐δ Spinel Electrocatal.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 29.342s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:41:28.076387Z
---

## **Forschungsartikel**

Electrocatalytic O2 Evolution

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **2024**, 63, e202402171 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202402171

# Stabilizing Lattice Oxygen through Mn Doping in NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-δ</sub> Spinel Electrocatalysts for Efficient and Durable Acid Oxygen Evolution

Hongyu Zhao<sup>+</sup>, Liu Zhu<sup>+</sup>, Jie Yin<sup>+</sup>,\* Jing Jin, Xin Du,\* Lei Tan, Yong Peng, Pinxian Xi,\* and Chun-Hua Yan

Abstract: Design the electrocatalysts without noble metal is still a challenge for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in acid media. Herein, we reported the manganese (Mn) doping method to decrease the concentration of oxygen vacancy (Vo) and form the Mn-O structure adjacent octahedral sites in spinel NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-δ</sub> (NiMn<sub>1.5</sub>Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4.δ</sub>), which highly enhanced the activity and stability of spinel NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-δ</sub> with a low overpotential  $(\eta)$  of 280 mV at j = 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and long-term stability of 80 h in acid media. The isotopic labelling experiment based on differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) clearly demonstrated the lattice oxygen in NiMn<sub>15</sub>Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4.8</sub> is more stable due to strong Mn–O bond and shows synergetic adsorbate evolution mechanism (SAEM) for acid OER. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal highly increased oxygen vacancy formation energy (E<sub>VO</sub>) of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4-8</sub> after Mn doping. More importantly, the highly hydrogen bonding between Mn-O and \*OOH adsorbed on adjacent Co octahedral sites promote the formation of \*OO from \*OOH due to the greatly enhanced charge density of O in Mn substituted sites.

#### Introduction

Noble metal based electrocatalysts play an important role in acid oxygen evolution reaction (OER) to promote the four-electron/four-proton transition.<sup>[1-4]</sup> The high cost severely impedes their large-scale application in proton exchange membrane water electrolyze (PEMWE).<sup>[5-7]</sup> Great efforts

have been devoted to decrease the content of those noble metal in various acid OER catalysts. [8–10] Series strategies have been developed to fabricate numerous catalysts with less used noble metal, such as surface segregation (IrO\_x/SrIrO\_3), [11–14] single atoms catalysts (Ir–NiCo\_2O\_4), [1,15–18] interface engineering (Co\_3O\_4/CeO\_2), [19–22] doping method (Ni–RuO\_2), [23–26] and so on. Although those catalysts used little noble metal show an excellent performance for acid OER, it is still a big challenge to design acid OER catalysts without noble metal with improved activity and stability.

The \*OOH formation step (\*O→\*OOH) and deprotonation step (\*OH→\*O) are OER potential limiting steps for adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM) and lattice oxygen oxidation mechanism (LOM), respectively. [27-30] Usually, the LOM shows faster reaction rate than AEM for the participation of active lattice oxygen (O<sub>1</sub>) reduced O-O coupling energy.<sup>[31]</sup> However, the generated oxygen vacancy (V<sub>O</sub>) for release of O<sub>L</sub> causes the metal species to dissolve into electrolyte, especially in acid media, leading to the rapid degradation of catalysts. [32] Therefore, it is very important to design the materials with both advantages of AEM and LOM are extremely urgent for acid OER. Regulating the metal oxygen structure adjacent to the adsorption sites promotes the formation of \*OOH and \*OO, namely the synergetic adsorbate evolution mechanism (SAEM), is more conducive to further improve the OER performance, especially long-term stability in acid media.

Herein, we designed manganese (Mn) doped NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> spinel structure and heterostructure, namely NiMn<sub>1.5</sub>Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4- $\delta$ </sub> and NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4- $\delta$ </sub>/Mn<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, using the strong Mn–O bond to increase initial structural stability and prevent the metal ions dissolution into acid electrolyte.<sup>[33–35]</sup> The isotopic labeling experiment based on differential electrochemical mass

[\*] H. Zhao, J. Yin, J. Jin, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan

State Key Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry, Key Laboratory of Nonferrous Metal Chemistry and Resources Utilization of Gansu Province, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Frontiers Science Center for Rare Isotopes, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000. China

E-mail: yinj@lzu.edu.cn xipx@lzu.edu.cn

L. Zhu, + Y. Peng

School of Materials and Energy, Electron Microscopy Centre of Lanzhou University, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China

X Di

College of Chemistry, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001,

E-mail: dux@zuu.edu.cn

L. Tan

Key Laboratory for Magnetism and Magnetic Materials of the Ministry of Education, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China

C.-H. Yan

Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth Materials Chemistry and Applications, Peking University. The University of Hong Kong Joint Laboratory in Rare Earth Materials and Bioinorganic Chemistry, College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China

[+] These authors contributed equally to this work.

*Angewandte*

spectrometry (DEMS) clearly demonstrated the AEM for Mn2O3, LOM for NiCo2O4-δ, and SAEM for NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> in acid OER. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal the significantly reduced VO in NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, which can be attributed to the high VO formation energy for Mn O species. Both aberration-corrected scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and DFT show doped Mn atoms in spinel structure substituting the Ni/Co octahedral (CoOh/NiOh) or tetrahedral (CoTd) sites (Figure S1), and Mn O structure adjacent to CoOh sites regulated the electronic structure and promotes the dissociation of water and adsorption of \*OOH in acid OER. As expected, the NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows excellent acid OER performance with low overpotential (*η*, 280 mV @ *j*=10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) and longterm stability (80 h @ *j*=10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), which is much better than recently reported noble metal free catalysts. This work prepares a promising catalyst with superior SAEM for acid OER and offers a guideline for the fabrication of stable noble metal free catalysts in acid media.

#### *Results and Discussion*

We developed the electrochemical co-deposition method for synthesis various Mn based NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> nanomaterials (Figure 1a). The first step is electrodeposition on carbon cloth using three-electrode system at 1.0 V vs. Ag/AgCl and depositing for 1 h in metal salt solutions of 0.1 molL <sup>1</sup> (M, Ni(NO3)2, Co(NO3)2, Mn(NO3)2). In detail, NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> precursor was synthesized in Ni and Co solution of 60 mL with VNi : VCo=1 :2, the synthesis of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 precursors were identical to NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> except adding 6 and 30 mL Mn solution, Mn2O3 precursor was synthesized in Mn solution of 60 mL, respectively. Then, the carbon cloth with materials were annealed in air at 500 °C for 2 h to obtain designed catalysts. The inductively coupled plasma (ICP) was tested to confirm the content of Ni, Mn, and Co, and the chemical formula of those materials were obtained (Table S1). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure 1b) of those materials show that NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> are matching well with cubic NiCo2O4 for a space group of F\*3 (JCPDS No. 20–781, *a*= *b*=*c*=8.11 Å) without Mn2O3 species, and Mn2O3 shows cubic structure with a space group of Ia-3 (JCPDS No. 78– 390, *a*=*b*=*c*=9.43 Å), while NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 shows both peaks for NiCo2O4 and Mn2O3 structure. NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 display two A1g peaks in Raman spectra, while Mn2O3 and NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> just show one A1g peak (Figure 1c), suggesting the Mn O bond effects the adjacent octahedral sites in spinel structure. The electron spin resonance (ESR) demonstrates that NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> reveals the highest ESR signal in those materials for the strongest electron trapped on surface VO, [16,36] while the VO decreased in Mn based materials suggesting the strong Mn O bond stabilize OL in spinel (Figure 1d). The DFT calculation was further used to confirm the VO formation energies (EVO) of

*Figure 1.* Synthesis and oxygen vacancy characterization of those materials. (a) Schematic illustration of synthesized four materials. (b) XRD patterns, (c) Raman, (d) ESR spectra, and (e) DFT calculated EVO of NiCo2O4-δ, NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 and Mn2O3. (f) The ELF images of NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with Mn atoms substituted CoOh/NiOh or CoTd sites.

those materials.[37] As shown in Figure 1e, the calculated EVO values are 1.72, 2.66, 1.84 and 4.65 eV for NiCo2O4-δ, NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3, and Mn2O3, respectively. Much higher EVO of Mn2O3 suggests that Mn can stabilize lattice oxygen in spinel structure and reduce the concentration of VO. Then, the electron localization function (ELF) of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> around O species is stronger than that of NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> spinel structure either Mn substitutes Ni/Co O6 or Co O4 sites, suggesting enhanced degree of electronic localization of O in Ni/Co O Mn structure (Figure 1f), while the O doesn't get more charge in heterostructure and Mn2O3 (Figure S2). Therefore, it's worth to believe that introducing Mn into spinel structure can greatly improve the stability of lattice oxygen.

The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images display nanosheets arrays of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> on carbon cloth (Figure 2a&insert). Similarly, NiCo2O4-δ, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3, and Mn2O3 show the same morphology (Figure S3). The highresolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images display three lattice fringes for NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with inter-planar distance of 0.283, 0.200, and 0.243 nm corresponding to (220), (400), and (311) crystallographic plane for spinel NiCo2O4 structure (Figure 2b), which also confirmed by electron diffraction image (Figure S4). The results suggest Mn was introduced into spinel structure without formation of Mn OX species. The HRTEM images of NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 show heterostructure with both crystallographic plane for NiCo2O4 and Mn2O3 (Figure S5). The HRTEM image of synthesized Mn2O3 shows perovskite manganite structure (Figure S6).

Then, the atomic high angle annular dark field (HAADF) aberration-corrected scanning TEM (STEM) image (Figure 2c) shows the atomic dispersed Mn in NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> lattice, and the corresponding FFT image (insert in Figure 2c) shows the diffraction pattern of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> domain with polycrystalline structure of NiCo2O4 for {222}, {400}, {440}, {600}, {620}, {662}, and {831}. The STEM-HAADF images of Mn2O3 show [140] and [112] (Figure S7) and NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> exhibits three main zone [001], [011], and [211] (Figure S8). Meanwhile, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 has a clear interface between NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> [211] and Mn2O3 [112] zone (Figure S9). Then, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> atomic structure along [001], [011], and [211] zone was carefully tested (Figure 2d– f), demonstrating the Mn substituted the NiOh, CoTd, and CoOh sites, respectively. Importantly, the atomic arrangement and obvious defect in spinel structure did not change after Mn doping. The QSTEM results also confirmed the atomic structure along [001], [011], and [211] zone (Fig-

*Figure 2.* Morphology and atomic structure characterization of NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ. (a) SEM, (b) HRTEM, and (c) TEM diffraction images for NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ. HAADF-STEM image of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> along the (d) [001] orientation, (e) [011] orientation, and (f) [211] orientation. The QSTEM image (left) and standard atomic structure (right) on (d down) [001] orientation, (e down) [011] orientation, and (f down) [211] orientation. Line intensity profiles for Ni, Co, and Mn area along the (g) [001] orientation, (h) [011] orientation, and (i) [211] orientation in yellow square of (d), (e), and (f).

*Angewandte*

ure 2d–f down left), compare to the corresponding theoretical Mn doped atomic structure (Figure 2d–f down right). Additionally, the line intensity profiles (Figure 2g–i) were measured to confirm Mn atom positions in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> along [001], [011], and [211] zone in yellow area (Figure 2d– f), which indicates the Mn substituted the Ni O6, Co O4, and Co O6 sites, which also can be confirmed by ionic radius. In detail, the ionic radius of Mn3<sup>+</sup> (0.058 nm) is smaller than that of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.065 nm), Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.061 nm), and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.069 nm), suggesting Mn can substitute into CoOh/ NiOh or CoTd sites for in spinel NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> structure.

Transmission x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were performed on a laboratory device.[38,39] The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of Ni K-edge show obvious decreased intensity of Ni O peak (peak I), demonstrating the slightly weakened Ni O bond after Mn doped in NiCo2O4 lattice or formation of heterostructure. Similarly, the peak II in Ni K-edge XANES spectra display decreased structural symmetry of octahedral Ni sites (NiOh) from NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> to NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 (Figure 3a). Additionally, the extended Xray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of Ni K-edge in R space show clearly decreased Ni O bond (Figure 3b). More important information can be found in EXAFS wavelet transform (WT) analysis (Figure 3c). The Ni O bond in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> is clearly decreased both in intensity and K position compared to NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-δ/ Mn2O3, while NiOh NiOh is enhanced in NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, which can be attributed to the Mn O site adjacent NiOh site highly enhanced the covalence of Ni O bond. The Co O6 and Co O4 in spinel NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> structure form a chemical environment for easily formation of VO. Except slightly decrease in pre-edge peak, the Co K-edge XANES spectra show negligible change in those materials (Figure 3d), suggesting introduced Mn decreased CoTd sites and enhanced the stability of OL. More clearly, Co K-edge EXAFS spectra in R space display the Co O bond didn't change in those materials, while the CoTd peaks at 3.0 Å disappeared

*Figure 3.* EXAFS spectra characterization coordination structure of prepared materials. (a) The normalized Ni K-edge EXAFS spectra, (b) Ni K-edge FT-EXAFS in R space, and (c) Wavelet transforms for the k3 -weighted EXAFS signals for NiCo2O4-δ, NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, and NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3. (d) The normalized Co K-edge EXAFS spectra, the insert: the pre-edge peak for Co tetrahedral sites, (e) Co K-edge FT-EXAFS in R space, and (f) Wavelet transforms for the k3 -weighted EXAFS signals for NiCo2O4-δ, NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, and NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3. (g) The normalized Mn K-edge EXAFS spectra, (h) Mn K-edge FT-EXAFS in R space, and (i) Wavelet transforms for the k3 -weighted EXAFS signals for Mn2O3, NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, and NiCo2O4-δ/ Mn2O3.

with introduced Mn species (Figure 3e). Similarly, the WT-EXAFS images (Figure 3f) show that NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> has increased K position of Co O bond compared to NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> for the neighboring Mn doping, thus enhanced the covalence of Co O bond. Compared with Mn2O3, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 heterostructure shows the same chemical environment, while NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows an obvious left shift for preedge peak, peak I and peak II demonstrates slightly disordered coordination structure and decreased Mn value state were shown in Mn K-edge XANES spectra (Figure 3g). The Mn K-edge EXAFS spectra in R space (Figure 3h) and corresponding WT-EXAFS images (Figure 3i) also confirmed the slightly changed chemical environment of Mn species in those materials. The Mn O bond in first coordination shell enhances, while Mn O bond in second coordination shell, MnOh MnOh bond and MnTd MnTd peak intensity decreases in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> structure compared with NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 and Mn2O3. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) shows the chemical environment of those materials. The O 1s spectra show the same peak positions of OL, OH/VO, absorbed water (Figure S10a), and enhanced OL after introducing Mn into spinel lattice (Table S2). Compared to Mn2O3, the Mn 2p spectra of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 slightly changed for the formation of Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species in doping materials (Figure S10b). Meanwhile, the Ni 2p and Co 2p spectra (Figure S10c, d) were almost not changed after introducing Mn in spinel lattice (Table S3–5).

The electrocatalytic performance of a series of catalysts are evaluated by the linear scan voltammogram (LSV) in O2-saturated 0.5 M H2SO4 at 25°C.[40] As expected, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> displays the best OER performance among Mn doped spinel structure with different content of Mn (Figure S11), which shows the onset potential of 200 mV (*vs.* RHE) and *η* of 280 mV at *j*=10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> much better than those of NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 (260 mV and 350 mV), NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> (260 mV and 330 mV), and Mn2O3 show negligible OER performance (Figure 4a). In addition, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows comparable performance as commercial IrO2 (Figure S12). Meanwhile, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> also displays the smallest Tafel plots (insert Figure 4a) of 60 mVdec <sup>1</sup> than NiCo2O4-δ/ Mn2O3 (105 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> (82 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), and Mn2O3 (156 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), respectively. NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows much enhanced acid OER stability than NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> in 0.5 M H2SO4, and exhibits better activity (Figure S13) and stability in H3PO4 (pH=1) for 80 h with negligible potential change (Figure 4b). Additionally, Mn ion content in electrolyte is very low and does not increase under long-term testing, and the dissolution of Co and Ni ion quickly stable in the first few hours (Figure 4c). Therefore, both activity and stability of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> for acid OER demonstrate the Mn doping strategy is a useful method for enhancing catalysts performance and stability of OL. Further, in situ DEMS measured in acid H2 18O clearly show the oxygen resource of those catalysts.[41] The ratio of 34O2 and 36O2 in one CV cycle is 30.33%, 69.90%, and 10.38% of Mn2O3, NiCo2O4-δ, and

*Figure 4.* Acid OER performance and mechanism of prepared materials. (a) LSV curves of NiCo2O4-δ, NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3, and Mn2O3 for OER in 0.5 M H2SO4. The insert in (a): corresponding Tafel slopes for those catalysts. (b) The long-term stability of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> in 0.5 M H2SO4 and H3PO4 (pH=1). (c) Metal ions concentration in 0.5 M H2SO4 of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> during OER stability testing. The isotopic labelling DEMS testing for (d) Mn2O3, (e) NiCo2O4-δ, and (f) NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> in one CV curve for OER. The OER mechanism for (g) Mn2O3, (h) NiCo2O4-δ, and (i) NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with Mn substituted Co O4 sites, respectively.

*Angewandte Chemie*

NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, respectively (Figure 4d–f), indicating Mn2O3 follows almost AEM (Figure 4g), NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> follows almost LOM (Figure 4h), and NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> follows SAEM either Mn substituted Ni/Co O6 (Figure S14) or Co O4 (Figure 4i) sites for acid OER. Additionally, the DEMS result also shows NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 heterostructure with low 34O2 and 36O2 ratio of 10.22% (Figure S15) further confirmed the slight OL evolution for acid OER in spinel structure after introduced lattice Mn. Therefore, it's believable that Mn doping strategy greatly improved the OL stability and increased SAEM for acid OER.

The coordinate structure of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> after OER was carefully characterized. Compare to the initial Ni Kedge XANES spectrum of NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, the Ni valence state slightly changed with increased OER current (Figure S16a). The change in Ni O bond was found in Ni Kedge EXAFS R space spectra, which should be attributed to the defect structure formed by dissolution of Ni ion in spinel structure (Figure S16b). Co K-edge XANES spectra of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> show increased pre-edge peak and left shift in absorption energy (Figure S16c) indicating the enhanced CoTd sites after OER testing, and the corresponding spectra of Co K-edge EXAFS R space display obvious CoTd peak after testing at 3 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure S16d). The Mn valence state slightly changed at low OER current (Figure S16e) and coordinate structure also didn't change (Figure S16f). The XPS spectra (Figure S17, Table S6) and ESR result (Figure S18) also show the chemical environment of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> didn't change after long-term stability tests. Additionally, the TEM and elements mapping images (Figure S19a, b) show the morphology maintained and all elements are still uniform in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> structure. The HRTEM images (Figure S19c, d) confirmed the spinel structure and crystallographic plane of (220) and (400) for NiCo2O4 after OER.

NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows excellent acid OER activity and stability compared with other non-noble metal catalysts (Figure 5a, Table S7). Then, in situ spectra measurements were further performed to confirm the reason for better acid OER performance of NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ. Compared to other three synthesized catalysts, the in situ attenuated total reflection infrared (ATR-IR) spectro-electrochemical result of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows clear peaks for OHad and OOHad at lower potentials of 0.8 and 0.9 V (Figure S20a), which demonstrates faster O O coupling and formation of OOHad on NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> surface than other synthesized catalysts.[42] Additionally, the inconspicuous observation of OHad of NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> can be explained by the weak adsorption

*Figure 5.* In situ study for acid OER of prepared materials. (a) The performance comparation among NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and other non-precious metal catalysts. (b) Gause fitting results of 4-HB-H2O for NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> taking points at intervals of 0.2 V in the potential range 1.2 to 2.0 V vs. RHE. (c, d) The variation tendency of peak position and proportion of 2-HB-H2O in NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and Mn2O3. (e) Schematic diagram of SAEM catalytic process for NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, and the pink balls represent catalysts surface, containing Ni, Co, Mn atoms in crystal structures. (f) The variation tendency of OOHad/OHad intensity for NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and Mn2O3 in the potential range 1.2 to 2.0 V vs. RHE.

energy of active sites (Figure S20b), while the OHad on NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 surface was smooth at low potentials, but decreased with increased potentials (Figure S20c). The acid OER performance of Mn2O3 is limited due to strong OHad under different potentials (Figure S20d). Meanwhile, the wavenumber of OOHad peaks of NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, NiCo2O4-δ, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 and Mn2O3 are at 1202, 1231, 1220 and 1200 cm <sup>1</sup> , which further confirmed the strong adsorption of intermediates on Mn species.[34,35] The detail information of interfacial H2O on synthesized catalysts surface was carefully studied by in situ ATR-IR. The interfacial H2O can be resolved into two components, namely 4-coordinated hydrogen-bonded water (4-HB-H2O) and 2-coordinated hydrogen-bonded water (2-HB-H2O) (Figure 5b).[43,44] The peaks position of 2-HB-H2O is slightly increasing (Figure 5c) and ratio of 2-HB-H2O is declining gradually and proportion of 4-HB-H2O is regularly increasing (Figure 5d) on NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> surface, which indicates the relatively stable and efficient transition of interfacial H2O during OER. In terms of Mn2O3, the distinct wavenumber blue shift is displayed (Figure 5c) and similar interfacial H2O peaks change (Figure S21a, c, and d) compared to NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, but Mn2O3 shows strong adsorption of H2O molecule before OER (Figure S21a). However, the NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> spinel structure shows obvious change on both 4-HB-H2O and 2-HB-H2O components (Figure S21b–d). Figure 5e illustrates the reaction process of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> following SAEM in the adsorbed layer, preventing the leaching of lattice oxygen from catalyst structure. According to the vibration tendency of OOHad/OHad in Figure 5f, the introduction of Mn in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> regulates the conversion efficiency of OHad to OOHad under the lower potential range compared to NiCo2O4-δ. The intensity of OOHad/OHad of Mn2O3 is lower than NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-δ, which can be attributed to the strongest adsorption of OH on Mn2O3 surface and limited the O O coupling to form OOHad. Therefore, the changes of different types of interfacial water and oxygen intermediates have verified the improved performances of NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, providing more plausible explanations for reaction mechanism of noble metal-free catalysts functionalize in acidic OER. Furthermore, in situ Raman spectra show that NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> (Figure S22a) and NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> (Figure S22b) without reconstruction under different OER potentials. However, the in situ Raman spectra of NiCo2O4-δ/ Mn2O3 (Figure S22c), and Mn2O3 (Figure S22d) show formation of MOOH species at ~572 cm <sup>1</sup> on the surface with increased OER potentials.

DFT calculations reveal the electron density difference distributions of \*OOH on NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 surface with weak electron interaction (Figure S23a) and Mn2O3 surface with negligible electron interaction (Figure S23b). However, the NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> spinel surface show the stronger electron interaction (Figure S24a) than that of heterostructure and pure Mn2O3 structure, suggesting the better OER performance of spinel structure. More importantly, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> surface shows highly enhanced electron interaction between Ni/Co O Mn and \*OOH absorbent (Figure 6a), suggesting easier deprotonation of \*OOH and formation of \*OO on Mn doped spinel structure. Additionally, the shorter interatomic Co Co distance in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> (2.93 Å) with Mn atoms substituted NiOh/CoOh or CoTd sites (Figure 6b, c) is favor to \*O \*OH radical coupling compared to NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> (2.95 Å) (Figure S24b). Therefore, the Mn O structure adjacent to CoOh sites in spinel structure regulates the electronic structure and promotes the adsorption of \*OOH

and formation of \*OO in acid OER. Then, the density of states (DOS), electrostatic potential, and free energy of synthesized catalysts were calculated to further investigate OER performance in acid media. The position of the d-band center closer to the Fermi level will induce a stronger binding strength with adsorbates. The more negative ɛd could reduce the free energy of the ratelimiting step during OER and endows the catalyst with high intrinsic activity.[45,46] Expect NiCo2O4-δ, other materials are metallic for plenty of states crossing the Fermi level (EF) (Figure 6d, Figure S25). The d-band center on Co sites was calculated to demonstrate the adsorption ability for those catalysts (Figure 6e), in which NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> has more negative d-band center either substituting Ni/Co O6 sites ( 0.169 eV) or Co O4 sites ( 0.171 eV) than NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> ( 0.143 eV) suggesting Mn doping can optimize adsorption interaction between NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> surface and OER intermediates.[47] The surface electrostatic potentials of Mn doped NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and initial spinel structure (Figure 6f) show the clear electrostatic potential difference between Co and Mn sites, while the uniform electrostatic potential can be found in NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 and Mn2O3 (Figure S26). More importantly, the Mn sites in NiMn1.5Co3O4-δ, namely substituted Ni/Co O6 or Co O4 sites, become electrons aggregation center with higher electrostatic potential and promote the \*OOH deprotonation and \*OO formation. Finally, the adsorption of intermediates (\*OH, \*O and \*OOH) were optimized and the free energies of corresponding adsorption intermediates were computed on all the surfaces for fourstep OER.[48,49] The calculated Gibbs free energy (ΔG) profiles of each step involved in the OER process for pristine NiCo2O4-δ, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with Mn substituted CoTd sites, NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 and Mn2O3 at U=0 (Figure 6g) and U=1.23 V (Figure 6h) were calculated. In detail, the thermodynamic rate-determining step (RDS) is step IV (\*OOH!O2) for NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with a theoretical *η* of 1.72 and 1.39 V to accomplish the OER at U=0 V, while NiCo2O4-δ/Mn2O3 and Mn2O3 show RDS step III (\*O!\*OOH) with 1.56 and 2.55 eV, respectively. The RDS doesn't change at U=1.23 V, but the corresponding ΔG is highly decreased. Similarly, the RDS is step I (H2O! \*OH) for NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with Mn substituted NiOh/CoOh sites with the same theoretical of 1.39 and 0.16 V at U=0 and 1.23 V (Figure S27), respectively. The NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with abundant VO structure was further fabricated to study the OER progress. The ELF images of Ni/Co O6 (Figure S28a) and Co O4 (Figure S28b) sites substituted NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with abundant VO clearly show the VO become the electrons aggregation center and seriously increased the free energy for OER (Figure S29).[50] Therefore, it's credible that the Mn O structure adjacent octahedral sites (Ni/Co O Mn), as the electrons aggregation

*Figure 6.* OER pathway within acidic condition. (a) 3D electron density difference distributions of \*OOH on NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> surface with Mn atoms substituted CoTd sites. (b) Crystalline structure model and (c) Co Co bond of NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with Mn atoms substituted CoTd sites. (d) The total DOS, (e) Co-d DOS, and (f) the electrostatic potential of NiCo2O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with Mn substituted Ni/Co O6 or Co O4 sites in spinel structure. The free energy profiles for OER on synthesized catalysts at (g) U=0 V and (h) U=1.23 V.

center, are key point for NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> with improved OER performance.

### *Conclusions*

In this work, we used doping strategy and fabricated homogeneous structure and heterostructure materials based on spinel NiCo2O4-δ, namely NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> and NiCo2O4-δ/ Mn2O3, which highly enhanced the stability of spinel structure and decreased the VO concentration for the strong covalence of Mn O bond. Especially, NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> shows excellent acid OER performance with low *η* and long-term stability, such as 280 mV and 80 h at *j*=10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , much better than recently reported noble metal free catalysts. More importantly, the Mn O structure adjacent to CoOh sites in NiMn1.5Co3O4-<sup>δ</sup> promotes the formation of \*OO from \*OOH and creates SAEM for acid OER different with AEM for spinel NiCo2O4-δ. DFT calculations reveal the introducing Mn into spinel lattice achieve high EVO preventing formation of VO and stabilizing OL. More importantly, the Mn O structure adjacent octahedral sites not only enhance the covalence of adjacent CoOh sites favored to adsorption \*OOH, but also negative d-band center would lead to easy dissociation of reaction products and better catalytic activity promoted \*OOH deprotonation and O2 gas formation. This synergetic mutual activation between Mn O and adjacent Co O structure plays a key role for accelerating the conversion of intermediates and maintaining the structural stability of catalysts. This work gives a promising way to prepare noble metal free catalysts with boosting OER activity and stability in acid media.

#### *Supporting Information*

The authors have cited additional references within the Supporting Information (Ref. [51–72]).

#### *Acknowledgements*

We acknowledge supporting from the National Key R&D Program of China (2021YFA1501101), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) (Nos. 22221001, 21931001, 22201115 and 22271124), the Special Fund Project

of Guiding Scientific and Technological Innovation Development of Gansu Province (2019ZX–04), and the 111 Project (B20027), as well as by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (lzujbky-2023-eyt03).

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Stabilize Lattice Oxygen **·** Mn doping **·** Spinel structure **·** SAEM **·** Acid OER

- [1] Y. Hao, S.-F. Hung, W.-J. Zeng, Y. Wang, C. Zhang, C.-H. Kuo, L. Wang, S. Zhao, Y. Zhang, H.-Y. Chen, S. Peng, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c07777) Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [23659–23669](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c07777).
- [2] Y. Yao, S. Hu, W. Chen, Z.-Q. Huang, W. Wei, T. Yao, R. Liu, K. Zang, X. Wang, G. Wu, W. Yuan, T. Yuan, B. Zhu, W. Liu, Z. Li, D. He, Z. Xue, Y. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Dong, C.-R. Chang, Y. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, S. Wei, W.-X. Li, P. Strasser, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, [304–313](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0246-2).
- [3] H. N. Nong, T. Reier, H.-S. Oh, M. Gliech, P. Paciok, T. H. T. Vu, D. Teschner, M. Heggen, V. Petkov, R. Schlögl, T. Jones, P. Strasser, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, [841–851.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0153-y)
- [4] J. Gao, Y. Liu, B. Liu, K. W. Huang, *ACS [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c08519)* **2022**, *16*, [17761–17777.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c08519)
- [5] A. L. King, A. M. Hubert, C. Capuano, J. Manco, N. Danilovic, E. Valle, R. T. Hellstern, K. Ayers, F. T. Jaramillo, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2019**, *14*,1071–1074.
- [6] C. Lin, J.-L. Li, X. Li, S. Yang, W. Luo, Y. Zhang, S.-H. Kim, D.-H. Kim, S. S. Shinde, Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, Z. Jiang, J.-H. Lee, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, [1012–1023](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00703-0).
- [7] A. Li, H. Ooka, N. Bonnet, T. Hayashi, Y. Sun, Q. Jiang, C. Li, H. Han, R. Nakamura, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201813361) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 5054– [5058.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201813361)
- [8] Y.-T. Kim, P. P. Lopes, S.-A. Park, A.-Y. Lee, J. Lim, H. Lee, S. Back, Y. Jung, N. Danilovic, V. Stamenkovic, J. Erlebacher, J. Snyder, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 1449.
- [9] J. Kim, P. C. Shih, K. C. Tsao, Y. T. Pan, X. Yin, C. J. Sun, H. Yang, J *. Am. Chem.* **2017**, *139*, 12076.
- [10] L. Cao, Q. Luo, J. Chen, L. Wang, Y. Lin, H. Wang, X. Liu, X. Shen, W. Zhang, W. Liu, Z. Qi, Z. Jiang, J. Yang, T. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4849.
- [11] C. Seitz, L. F. Dickens, C. Nishio, K. Hikita, Y. Montoya, J. Doyle, A. Kirk, C. Vojvodic, A. Y. Hwang, H. K. Norskov, J. F. Jaramillo, *T. Science* **2016**, *353*, [1011–1014](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaf5050).
- [12] C. Rong, K. Dastafkan, Y. Wang, C. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211884.
- [13] Z. Chen, L. Cai, X. Yang, C. Kronawitter, L. Guo, S. Shen, B. E. Koel, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, [1238–1247.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03191)
- [14] X. Liu, S. Xi, H. Kim, A. Kumar, J. Lee, J. Wang, N. Q. Tran, T. Yang, X. Shao, M. Liang, M. G. Kim, H. Lee, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 5676.
- [15] Y. Zhu, J. Wang, T. Koketsu, M. Kroschel, J.-M. Chen, S.-Y. Hsu, G. Henkelman, Z. Hu, P. Strasser, J. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 775.

- [16] J. Yin, J. Jin, M. Lu, B. Huang, H. Zhang, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [18378–18386](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c05050).
- [17] R. Lang, X. Du, Y. Huang, X. Jiang, Q. Zhang, Y. Guo, K. Liu, B. Qiao, A. Wang, T. Zhang, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00797) Rev.* **2020**, *120*, [11986–12043](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.0c00797).
- [18] H. Su, M. A. Soldatov, V. Roldugin, Q. Liu, *[eScience](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esci.2021.12.007)* **2022**, *2*, [102–109](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.esci.2021.12.007).
- [19] J. Huang, H. Sheng, R. D. Ross, J. Han, X. Wang, B. Song, S. Jin, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3036.
- [20] C. Feng, Z. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Kong, J. Wei, R. Wang, P. Ma, H. Li, Z. Geng, M. Zuo, J. Bao, S. Zhou, J. Zeng, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00533) Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [9271–9279.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00533)
- [21] X. Wang, X. Wan, X. Qin, C. Chen, X. Qian, Y. Guo, Q. Xu, W.-B. Cai, H. Yang, K. Jiang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, [9437–9445.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c01944)
- [22] J. Zhu, Y. Guo, F. Liu, H. Xu, L. Gong, W. Shi, D. Chen, P. Wang, Y. Yang, C. Zhang, J. Wu, J. Luo, S. Mu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202101539) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [12328–12334.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202101539)
- [23] Z.-Y. Wu, F.-Y. Chen, B. Li, S.-W. Yu, Y. Z. Finfrock, D. M. Meira, Q.-Q. Yan, P. Zhu, M.-X. Chen, T.-W. Song, Z. Yin, H.-W. Liang, S. Zhang, G. Wang, H. Wang, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-022-01380-5)* **2023**, *22*, [100–108](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-022-01380-5).
- [24] Y. Liu, Y. Chen, X. Mu, Z. Wu, X. Jin, J. Li, Y. Xu, L. Yang, X. Xi, H. Jang, Z. Lei, Q. Liu, S. Jiao, P. Yan, X. Li, R. Cao, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, [3757–3767](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05940).
- [25] S. Chen, H. Huang, P. Jiang, K. Yang, J. Diao, S. Gong, S. Liu, M. Huang, H. Wang, Q. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 1152–1160.
- [26] Z. Shi, J. Li, J. Jiang, Y. Wang, X. Wang, Y. Li, L. Yang, Y. Chu, J. Bai, J. Yang, J. Ni, Y. Wang, L. Zhang, Z. Jiang, C. Liu, J. Ge, W. Xing, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202212341.
- [27] J. Song, C. Wei, Z.-F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, J. Z. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, [2196–2214.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00607A)
- [28] T. Reier, H. N. Nong, D. Teschner, R. Schlögl, P. Strasser, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1601275.
- [29] Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, J. Z. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0355-9)* **2019**, *4*, [329–338](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0355-9).
- [30] Y. Wen, P. Chen, L. Wang, S. Li, Z. Wang, J. Abed, X. Mao, Y. Min, C. T. Dinh, P. Luna, R. Huang, L. Zhang, L. Wang, L. Wang, R. Nielsen, J. H. Li, T. Zhuang, C. Ke, O. Voznyy, Y. Hu, Y. Li, W. A. III Goddard, B. Zhang, H. Peng, E. H. Sargent, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [6482–6490](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c00384).
- [31] A. Grimaud, O. Diaz-Morales, B. Han, T. W. Hong, Y.-L. Lee, L. Giordano, A. K. Stoerzinger, T. M. M. Koper, Y. Shao-Horn *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 457–465.
- [32] N.-T. Suen, S.-F. Hung, Q. Quan, N. Zhang, Y.-J. Xu, H. M. Chen, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6CS00328A) Soc. Rev.* **2017**, *46*, 337.
- [33] A. Li, S. Kong, C. Guo, H. Ooka, K. Adachi, D. Hashizume, Q. Jiang, H. Han, J. Xiao, R. Nakamura, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00732-9)* **2022**, *5*, [109–118](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-021-00732-9).
- [34] L. Zhou, A. Shinde, H. J. Montoya, A. Singh, S. Gul, J. Yano, Y. Ye, J. E. Crumlin, H. M. Richter, K. J. Cooper, S. H. Stein, A. J. Haber, A. K. Persson, M. J. Gregoire, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02689)* **2018**, *8*, [10938–10948](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02689).
- [35] A. I. Moreno-Hernandez, A. C. MacFarland, G. C. Read, M. K. Papadantonakis, S. B. Brunschwig, S. N. Lewis, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7EE01486D) [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7EE01486D) Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 2103.
- [36] F.-C. Shen, Y. Wang, Y.-J. Tang, S.-L. Li, Y.-R. Wang, L. Dong, Z. Li, Y.-F. Xu, Y.-Q. Lan, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00229) Lett.* **2017**, *2*, [1327–1333](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00229).
- [37] B. Liu, S. Sun, R. Jia, H. Zhang, X. Zhu, C. Zhang, J. Xu, T. Zhai, H. Xia, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1909546.
- [38] J. Yin, J. Jin, H. Liu, B. Huang, M. Lu, J. Li, H. Liu, H. Zhang, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2001651.
- [39] J. Yin, Y. Li, F. Lv, Q. Fan, Y.-Q. Zhao, Q. Zhang, W. Wang, F. Cheng, P. Xi, S. Guo, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, [2275–2283](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.7b00417).

## *Forschungsartikel*

- [40] O. Diaz-Morales, S. Raaijman, R. Kortlever, P. J. Kooyman, T. Wezendonk, J. Gascon, W. T. Fu, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 1–6.
- [41] N. Yao, G. Wang, H. Jia, J. Yin, H. Cong, S. Chen, W. Luo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e20211717.
- [42] Y. Xue, J. Fang, X. Wang, Z. Xu, Y. Zhang, Q. Lv, M. Liu, W. Zhu, Z. Zhuang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2101405.
- [43] Y.-H. Wang, S. Zheng, W.-M. Yang, R.-Y. Zhou, Q.-F. He, P. Radjenovic, J.-C. Dong, S. Li, J. Zheng, Z.-L. Yang, G. Attard, F. Pan, Z.-Q. Tian, J.-F. Li, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-04068-z)* **2021**, *600*, 81.
- [44] X. Chen, X.-T. Wang, J.-B. Le, S.-M. Li, X. Wang, Y.-J. Zhang, P. Radjenovic, Y. Zhao, Y.-H. Wang, X.-M. Lin, J.-C. Dong, J.-F. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 5289.
- [45] J. K. Nørskov, F. Abild-Pedersen, F. Studt, T. Bligaard, *[Proc.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1006652108) Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2011**, *108*, [937–943.](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1006652108)
- [46] C. Wei, Y. Sun, G. G. Scherer, A. C. Fisher, M. Sherburne, J. W. Ager, Z. J. Xu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b12005) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 7765.
- [47] J. Yin, J. Jin, Z. Yin, L. Zhu, X. Du, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, S. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1724.
- [48] Y. Wen, C. Liu, R. Huang, H. Zhang, X. Li, F. P. García de Arquer, Z. Liu, Y. Li, B. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4871.
- [49] C. Wang, L. Qi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [17219–17224.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202005436)
- [50] S. Zhang, Z.-Q. Huang, Y. Ma, W. Gao, J. Li, F. Cao, L. Li, C.- R. Chang, Y. Qu, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15266.
- [51] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *[Comput.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0927-0256(96)00008-0) Mater. Sci.* **1996**, *6*, 15–50.
- [52] G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, [11169–11186.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.54.11169)
- [53] W. Li, F. Wang, X.-y. Liu, Y.-y. Dang, J.-y. Li, T.-h. Ma, C.-y. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *313*, [121470.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121470)
- [54] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *[Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.3865) Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, [3865–3868.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.3865)
- [55] G. Kresse, D. Joubert, *Phys. Rev. B* **1999**, *59*, [1758–1775.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.59.1758)
- [56] M. Engel, M. Marsman, C. Franchini, G. Kresse *Phys. Rev. B* **2020**, *101*, 184302.
- [57] J. S. Mondschein, J. F. Callejas, C. G. Read, J. Y. C. Chen, C. F. Holder, C. K. Badding, R. E. Schaak, *Chem. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b02879)* **2017**, *29*, [950–957.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b02879)
- [58] F. Hu, S. Zhu, S. Chen, Y. Li, L. Ma, T. Wu, Y. Zhang, C. Wang, C. Liu, X. Yang, L. Song, X. Yang, Y. Xiong, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606570.

- [59] S. Anantharaj, K. Karthick, S. Kundu, *Inorg. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b00868)* **2019**, *58*, [8570–8576](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.9b00868).
- [60] W. L. Kwong, C. C. Lee, A. Shchukarev, E. Björn, J. Messinger, *J. Catal.* **2018**, *365*, [29–35.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2018.06.018)
- [61] H. Liu, X. Peng, X. Liu, G. Qi, J. Luo, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201802437)* **2019**, *12*, [1334–1341](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201802437).
- [62] J. Sun, S. E. Lowe, L. Zhang, Y. Wang, K. Pang, Y. Wang, Y. Zhong, P. Liu, K. Zhao, Z. Tang, H. Zhao, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201811573) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [16511–16515.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201811573)
- [63] L. Zhou, A. Shinde, J. H. Montoya, A. Singh, S. Gul, J. Yano, Y. Ye, E. J. Crumlin, M. H. Richter, J. K. Cooper, H. S. Stein, J. A. Haber, K. A. Persson, J. M. Gregoire, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02689)* **2018**, *8*, [10938–10948](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b02689).
- [64] K.-L. Yan, J.-Q. Chi, J.-Y. Xie, B. Dong, Z.-Z. Liu, W.-K. Gao, J.-H. Lin, Y.-M. Chai, C.-G. Liu, *[Renewable](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2017.12.003) Energy* **2018**, *119*, [54–61](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2017.12.003).
- [65] S. Yang, Y. Zhan, J. Li, J. Y. Lee, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b00437)* **2016**, *8*, [3535–3542](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b00437).
- [66] D. Lyu, Y. B. Mollamahale, S. Huang, P. Zhu, X. Zhang, Y. Du, S. Wang, M. Qing, Z. Q. Tian, P. K. Shen, *J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2018.10.025)* **2018**, *368*, [279–290](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2018.10.025).
- [67] X.-B. Han, D.-X. Wang, E. Gracia-Espino, Y.-H. Luo, Y.-Z. Tan, D.-F. Lu, Y.-G. Li, T. Wågberg, E.-B. Wang, L.-S. Zheng, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2020**, *41*, [853–857.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(20)63538-0)
- [68] J. Lai, S. Li, F. Wu, M. Saqib, R. Luque, G. Xu, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5EE02996A) Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, [1210–1214](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5EE02996A).
- [69] L. Wang, X. Duan, X. Liu, J. Gu, R. Si, Y. Qiu, Y. Qiu, D. Shi, F. Chen, X. Sun, J. Lin, J. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903137.
- [70] E. Saha, K. Karthick, S. Kundu, J. Mitra, *ACS [Sustainable](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b02858) Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, [16094–16102](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.9b02858).
- [71] R. Gao, Q. Dai, F. Du, D. Yan, L. Dai, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05006) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [11658–11666](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b05006).
- [72] Y. Zhu, T. Zhang, J. Y. Lee, *[ChemElectroChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201701360)* **2018**, *5*, 583– [588](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201701360).

Manuscript received: January 30, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: March 17, 2024 Version of record online: April 9, 2024