---
source: Zhao 等 - 2018 - Defect‐Rich Ni3 FeN Nanocrystals Anchored on N‐Doped Graphene for Enhanced Electrocatalyt.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 41.759s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:38:14.356735Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de Electrocatalysts**

# **Defect-Rich Ni3FeN Nanocrystals Anchored on N-Doped Graphene for Enhanced Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution**

*Shulin Zhao, Meng Li, Min Han,\* Dongdong Xu, Jing Yang, Yue Lin,\* Nai-En Shi, Yanan Lu, Rui Yang, Bitao Liu, Zhihui Dai, and Jianchun Bao\**

**Owing to their unique optical, electronic, and catalytic properties, metal nitrides nanostructures are widely used in optoelectronics, clean energy, and catalysis fields. Despite great progress has been achieved, synthesis of defect-rich (DR) bimetallic nitride nanocrystals or related nanohybrids remains a challenge, and their electrocatalytic application for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) has not been fully studied. Herein, the DR-Ni3FeN nanocrystals and N-doped graphene (N-G) nanohybrids (DR-Ni3FeN/N-G) are fabricated through temperature-programmed annealing and nitridation treatment of NiFe-layered double hydroxides/graphene oxide precursors by controlling annealing atmosphere. In the nanohybrids, the DR-Ni3FeN nanocrystals are anchored on N-G, and mainly show twin crystal defects besides ≈10% of stacking faults. Such nanohybrids can efficiently catalyze OER in alkaline media with a small overpotential (0.25 V) to attain the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and a high turnover frequency (0.46 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ), superior to their counterparts (the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G), commercial IrO2, and the-state-of-art reported OER catalysts. Except for the superior activity, they show better durability than their counterparts yet. As revealed by microstructural, spectroscopic, and electrochemical analyses, the enhanced OER performance of DR-Ni3FeN/N-G nanohybrids originates from the abundant twin crystal defects in Ni3FeN active phase and the strong interplay between DR-Ni3FeN and N-G.**

**1. Introduction**

Development of highly efficient and robust electrocatalysts toward oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is vital for implementing water splitting technology to produce clean H2 fuels, and for advancing regenerative H2–O2 fuel cells or metal–air batteries technologies.[1–4] Though the noble-metal oxides (e.g., IrO2 or RuO2) are highly active for OER, their scarcity, high cost, and low durability preclude their large-scale commercial applications.[5] Inspired from photosynthetic system II that produces oxygen from water using Mn-based complex (Mn4CaO5),[6] much efforts have been devoted to exploring alternative OER catalysts based on earthabundant 3d transition metals (e.g., Mn, Fe, Co, Ni) oxides, chalcogenides, metal– organic frameworks (MOFs), phosphides, and phosphates nanostructures.[7–17] Nonetheless, their performances are still needed to be improved for meeting the requirements of commercial applications. To this end, several steps have been taken, such as doping,[10] hybridization,[12,18] encapsulation,[19,20] and creating or engineering defects.[21–25] Among them, engineering defects have attracted considerable attention because they offer another degree of freedom for modulating the catalytic properties of desired materials without variation of their chemical composition.[26,27] For instance, Xie and co-workers found that the oxygen vacan-

cies rich NiCo2O4 nanosheets could improve the electrical conductivity and provide more available catalytic active sites, thereby showing greatly enhanced electrocatalytic OER performance compared with that of oxygen vacancies deficient NiCo2O4 nanosheets and bulk NiCo2O4. [24] Similarly, Zhang and co-workers discovered that ultrathin δ-MnO2 nanosheet

Dr. S. Zhao, M. Li, Prof. M. Han, Dr. D. Xu, J. Yang, Y. Lu, Prof. Z. Dai, Prof. J. Bao Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Biofunctional Materials School of Chemistry and Materials Science Nanjing Normal University Nanjing 210023, P. R. China E-mail: 07203@njnu.edu.cn; baojianchun@njnu.edu.cn Dr. Y. Lin Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale University of Science & Technology of China Hefei 230026, P. R. China

E-mail: linyue@ustc.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201706018.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.201706018**

Prof. N.-E. Shi, R. Yang Key Laboratory for Organic Electronics and Information Displays Institute of Advanced Materials Nanjing University of Posts & Telecommunications Nanjing 210023, P. R. China Dr. B. Liu Research Institute for New Materials Technology Chongqing University of Arts and Sciences Chongqing 402160, P. R. China

arrays with abundant oxygen vacancies could give rise to halfmetallicity properties and strong H2O adsorption, leading them to exhibit superior OER and hydrogen evolution reaction activities in comparison with their counterparts and bulk <sup>δ</sup>-MnO2. [28] In addition, Chung and co-workers found that the Ruddlesden–Popper 2D homologous faults can distort or elongate [NiO6] octahedral in LaNiO3 thin films and make them possess enhanced catalytic performance toward OER.[29] These outstanding works demonstrate that engineering defects is a feasible and enticing avenue for developing advanced OER catalysts to use in water splitting or other technological fields.

As one class of important functional materials, transition metal nitrides nanostructures exhibit unique optical, electronic, and catalytic properties as well as high chemical stability, and therefore widely used in optoelectronics, energy storage and conversion, and industrial catalysis fields.[30–37] Recently, ultrathin Ni3N nanosheets,[38] porous Co4N nanowires,[39] and Fe*x*N film[40] have been found to possess good electrocatalytic activity toward OER, which have stimulated considerable research on developing metal nitrides nanocrystals (NCs) as highly efficient OER electrocatalysts. Compared with monometallic nitrides, the activity of bimetallic nitrides can more readily be optimized through the manipulation of the valence and electronic states of the metal elements, resulting in enhanced electrocatalytic performance.[41] Among numerous bimetallic nitrides, Ni3FeN has aroused much attention very recently. To date, some Ni3FeN nanostructures with well-defined shapes, such as nanoparticles,[42] nanorods,[43] nanoplates,[44] and porous nanosheets,[45] have been prepared, and their applications for water splitting have been explored. Despite great progress has been achieved, rational synthesis of defect-rich (DR) Ni3FeN NCs or related nanohybrids (NHs) remains a challenge, and their electrocatalytic applications toward OER have not been fully studied.

Here, we report the synthesis of DR-Ni3FeN NCs and N-doped graphene (N-G) NHs (DR-Ni3FeN/N-G), and their electrocatalytic performance for OER. The typical synthesis is based on temperature-programmed annealing and nitridation treatment of NiFe-layered double hydroxides (LDH)/graphene oxide (GO) precursors by controlling annealing atmosphere. In the obtained NHs, the DR-Ni3FeN NCs are well-dispersed on N-G nanosheet, and mainly show twin crystals defects or grain boundaries (including fivefold twinned crystals and microtwinned structures) except for a small amount (≈10%) of stacking defects. The N-G component not only offers the "landing sites" for capturing and fixing DR-Ni3FeN NCs but also further enhances their conductivity and alleviates the stress that generated during the electrochemical process. Corresponding electrocatalytic tests demonstrate that such DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs can efficiently catalyze OER in alkaline media with a high turnover frequency (0.46 s<sup>−</sup>1). Additionally, their overpotential for attaining a current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> is only 0.25 V, outperforming to the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, pure Ni3FeN NCs and N-G nanosheets, NiFe-LDH/GO precursors, commercial IrO2, and other reported OER catalysts (e.g., Ni3FeN nanoparticles, NiFe-MOF thin films, three-dimensional graphene network (3D GN)/CoAl-NS, monolayer NiV-LDH nanosheets, etc.).[42,46–48] Moreover, such NHs also show better electrocatalytic stability than their counterparts (nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G). Combined with the microstructural, spectroscopic, and electrochemical analyses, the greatly enhanced catalytic performance of such DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs arises from the abundant defects in Ni3FeN NCs and the strong synergistic effect of their constituents, which not only improve the interfacial electron transfer kinetics and offer more available catalytic active sites but also efficiently deplete the stress and stabilize the interfacial structure of the NHs.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

For fabricating DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, the NiFe-LDH/GO precursors were first synthesized by in situ growth of NiFe-LDH on GO via a simple hydrothermal method. As we know, the GO possesses negative charge while the framework of LDH nanostructures possesses positive charge. Thus, driven by the strong static interaction, the in situ formed NiFe-LDH will spontaneously assemble on GO to generate the NiFe-LDH/GO precursors. The related morphology and component of the precursors are examined by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectrum (EDS), and powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information). It should be mentioned that the difference between the nominal and actual Ni/Fe molar ratios in the NiFe-LDH/GO precursors refers to the LDH formation mechanism.[42] Subsequently, by temperature-programmed annealing and nitridation treatment of such precursors from room temperature to 600 °C under Ar and NH3 atmosphere and keeping at 600 °C for 5 h, the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs will be obtained. In addition, keeping other conditions constant and only adjusting the annealing means or atmosphere (NH3 is introduced at 600 °C, not at room temperature), the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs also can be fabricated (Figure S2, Supporting Information), which are served as the control catalyst to discuss the impact of defects on electrocatalytic OER performance. The synthetic schematic diagram is given in **Scheme 1** and the detailed procedure is provided in the Experimental Section.

The component, crystallinity, and phase structures of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs were characterized by EDS, XRD, Raman, and X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS). Except for the O element that may originate from the adsorbed air, only Ni, Fe, C, N elements can be detected in the EDS pattern (Figure S3, Supporting Information). By integration calculation, the molar ratio of Ni, Fe, and N elements is about 3:1:5, indicating that the Ni3FeN component may exist in this sample. As for the excessive N element, it may incorporate into the G lattice to form the N-G component. Further evidence comes from the XRD analysis (**Figure 1**A). In contrast to the Joint Committee on Powder Diffraction Standard Card (JCPDS-50-1434), the three sharp diffraction peaks at the 2θ ranging from 35° to 85° marked with the red hearts can be indexed to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of the cubic phase Ni3FeN. Besides those three peaks, another broad peak that was marked with the blue dots can be assigned to the (002) plane of the hexagonal graphite structure that may originates from the N-G component in the NHs. To confirm the presence of N-G, the related Raman spectrum was performed. As shown in Figure 1B, the characteristic D-band (sp3 hybridized C), G-band (sp2 hybridized C), and 2D band for graphene-based structures can be observed in

**Scheme 1.** The schematic diagram for depicting the synthetic process of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs and the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs.

such NHs, and the intensity ratio of their D-band to G-band (*I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> = 1.13) is higher than that of pure N-G nanosheets (*I*D/*I*<sup>G</sup> = 1.06), implying the N element is doped into G that leads to the increase of sp3 hybridized or disordered C structures. Moreover, compared with that of pure N-G, the D-band and G-band of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs are red-shifted about 4–5 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S4, Supporting Information), revealing that there is a strong coupling between the DR-Ni3FeN and N-G constituents. To examine the chemical states of various elements and surface electronic structures of the NHs, the XPS tests were further performed. The survey XPS spectrum (Figure S5A, Supporting Information) shows the presence of C, O, Ni, Fe, and N elements. The related C 1s core-level XPS spectrum (Figure 1C) is highly asymmetric and can be deconvoluted into two strong peaks centered at 284.6 and 285.7 eV as well as one small peak at 289.2 eV, corresponding to the formation of CC, CN, and CO bonds, respectively.[49] Compared with that of CC and CN bonds, the very small integration area of CO peak indicates that the content of O element is extremely low. Usually, the trace amount of O element is believed to arise from the residual oxygen containing groups in initial GO,[50] or from the adsorbed air. Whereas in our NHs, the O 1s core-level XPS spectrum is nearly symmetric (Figure S5B, Supporting Information), and no characteristic peak can be found at 529.57 eV assigned to O2<sup>−</sup> in NiO and FeO bonds,[51] revealing that the trace amount of O element is mainly attributed to the adsorbed O2/CO2 in air. As for the Ni 2p XPS spectrum (Figure 1D), it shows two major peaks at 855.7 and 873.5 eV, assigning to the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 peaks for Ni<sup>2</sup>+ ions. Except for them, another two characteristic satellite peaks for Ni2<sup>+</sup> ions are observed at 861.7 and 879.7 eV, respectively. As for the disappearance of low-valence metallic Ni peak, it may be attributed to the charge transfer from DR-Ni3FeN to N-G,[52] which not only reduces the interfacial electron transfer resistance of the NHs but also enhances the adsorption of H2O molecules on DR-Ni3FeN active phase. While for the Fe 2p XPS spectrum (Figure 1E), the two peaks located at 712.0 and 723.9 eV are ascribed to the 2p3/2

and 2p1/2 peaks for Fe<sup>2</sup>+ ions,[52] respectively, accompanying with a characteristic satellite peak centered at 719.5 eV. Another peak at 707.3 eV (Fe 2p3/2) is usually assigned to the metallic Fe peaks that could be considered as the formation of metallic iron nitrides according to a previous report.[44] Based on the integration area ratio of Ni 2p and Fe 2p peaks, the molar ratio of Ni and Fe in the NHs is calculated to be 3:1, consistent with that of EDS analysis. To prove the presence of metal nitrides and N-G components, the N 1s core-level XPS spectrum is deconvoluted yet. As illustrated in Figure 1F, four featured peaks that correspond to the graphitic N,[53] pyrrole N,[49] pyridine N or Ni/Fe-N,[54] and metal nitride species[55] are observed at 401.7, 400.3, 398.6, and 397.5 eV, respectively, confirming the existence of N-G and metal nitrides in the obtained NHs.

The morphology and microstructure of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs were further examined by FE-SEM, TEM, and high-resolution TEM (HRTEM). From the low-magnification FE-SEM image (Figure S6A, Supporting Information), large-area sheetlike nanostructures with obvious wrinkles or curved edges can be observed, which are spontaneously organized into 3D framework-like motifs. Many small NCs are found to anchor on the edges, planes, or wrinkles of the nanosheets, as revealed by the high-magnification FE-SEM image (Figure S6B, Supporting Information). Further evidence comes from the lowmagnification TEM image shown in **Figure 2**A, from which one can see many black dots decorated on the surface of the light thin sheets. According to their differences on contrast, the light thin sheets are the N-G component, and the black dots are the formed Ni3FeN NCs, which are well-dispersed on N-G to generate well-coupled NHs. The average size of the DR-Ni3FeN NCs is measured to be ≈10 nm. The high-magnification TEM images (Figure 2B,C) confirm the rich defects containing nature of the Ni3FeN NCs, where the defects are indicated by the yellow dashed lines. By statistical analysis of 100 Ni3FeN NCs, the main defects (nearly 90%) are the twin crystal defects or grain boundaries including the fivefold twinned crystals and microtwinned structures, helpful for catalytic application.[56]

**Figure 1.** A) XRD pattern and B) Raman spectrum of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. C) Deconvoluted C 1s, D) Ni 2p, E) Fe 2p, and F) N 1s core-level XPS spectra for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs.

Figure 2D shows a representative HRTEM image of the fivefold twinned crystals (marked by the red rectangular framework). From the aberration corrected high-angle annular dark fieldscanning transmission (HAADF-STEM) image (Figure 2E), the fivefold twinning structure with obvious and complete twinning planes can be seen, which is outlined by the yellow dashed lines. The related fast Fourier transformation (FFT) pattern (Figure 2F) shows tenfold symmetry with two sets of diffraction spots corresponding to the (111) and (200) planes of the cubic phase Ni3FeN (JCPDS-50-1434), indicated by the yellow circles and squares, respectively. The zone axis is along the [011] direction. In addition, some microtwinned structures are observed yet. Figure 2G provides a representative HRTEM image for the microtwinned structures (marked by the blue rectangular framework). As revealed by the HAADF-STEM image (Figure 2H) and the related FFT pattern (Figure 2I), the microtwinned Ni3FeN nanostructures possess the active (111) and (200) twinning planes marked by the yellow dashed lines. Besides the fivefold twinned crystals and microtwinned structures, a small amount (≈10%) of stacking faults also can be found on some Ni3FeN NCs in the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. The representative HRTEM and HAADF-STEM images as well as the FFT pattern are given in Figure S7 (Supporting Information).

To get some insight on the formation process of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, several control experiments were performed. We found that the initial GO not only provides the physical confinement and coordination effects for in situ growth of NiFe-LDH but also affects the generation of defective structures in finally obtained Ni3FeN NCs. The evidence comes from the control experiment by only using NiFe-LDH as the precursors. In this case, pure Ni3FeN NCs with larger size will be obtained, but they are nearly defect-free and easy to aggregate (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Additionally, the interaction of GO

**Figure 2.** A) Low-magnification and B,C) high-magnification TEM images for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. D) Representative HRTEM and E) HAADF-STEM images as well as the related F) FFT pattern for the fivefold twinned crystal structured Ni3FeN NC in the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. G) Representative HRTEM and H) HAADF-STEM images as well as the related I) FFT pattern for the microtwinned structured Ni3FeN NC in the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs.

and NiFe-LDH in the precursors also affects the formation of DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. For example, by physically mixing of NiFe-LDH and GO (not in situ growth) and subsequently annealing under the identical condition, the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN NCs with larger size will be obtained (Figure S9, Supporting Information), which are randomly dispersed on the N-G. For comparison, the product obtained under this circumstance is marked as Ni3FeN+N-G mixtures. This result reveals that the in situ formed NiFe-LDH/GO precursors can enhance the interaction between NiFe-LDH and GO, and facilitate to generate the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs after annealing treatment. In addition, using in situ formed NiFe-LDH/GO as the precursors, the annealing means or atmosphere plays an important role for formation of defective structures in finally obtained NHs because the nitridation mechanism is distinct under different annealing atmosphere. Under the typical conditions (NiFe-LDH/GO precursors are annealed in Ar and NH3 atmosphere from room temperature to 600 °C and kept at 600 °C for 5 h), the NiFe-LDH will be progressively nitrided to form Ni3FeN NCs with the release of large amount of CO2, H2O, or H2 gas. The thermal and gas release generated high stresses may favor the formation of observed defects in Ni3FeN NCs, especially for formation of large amount of twin crystal structures.[57] Concomitantly, the GO will be reduced and converted into N-G, which is "ligated" with in situ generated defective Ni3FeN to form well-coupled NHs. Whereas by annealing the same precursors under Ar atmosphere from room temperature to 600 °C for 1 h and then introducing NH3 to react for 5 h, the Ni3Fe/G nanocomposites are found to be first formed (Figure S10, Supporting Information), which are served as the intermediates and gradually nitrided by the subsequently introduced NH3. In this synthetic protocol, no additional gas www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

(CO<sub>2</sub> or H<sub>2</sub>O) releases during the nitridation process, which may reduce the stress on formed Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN NCs surface that is harmful for twinning.<sup>[57]</sup> Thus, the Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs that nearly without twin boundaries or defects are formed accordingly. Similar phenomenon has been observed on treating hollow PtNi/C catalysts in different gas atmosphere by Dubau et al.<sup>[58]</sup> These facts demonstrate that the optimized annealing means for formation of DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs is under the Ar and NH<sub>3</sub> atmosphere annealing from room temperature to 600 °C. Moreover, to prove the necessity for designing NiFebimetallic nitride/N-G NHs, pure monometallic nitrides/N-G NHs including Ni<sub>3</sub>N/N-G (Figure S11, Supporting Information) and Fe<sub>2</sub>N/N-G (Figure S12, Supporting Information) are also prepared, and used as the control catalysts.

The electrocatalytic properties of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs were evaluated in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte by using the OER as the probe reaction. In relative to initial NiFe-LDH/GO precursors, Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN+N-G mixture, pure Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN NCs and N-G nanosheets (Figure S13, Supporting Information), as well as Ni<sub>3</sub>N/N-G and Fe<sub>2</sub>N/N-G NHs (Figure S14, Supporting Information), the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs exhibit greatly enhanced OER activity, indicating that the nitridation treatments and formation of bimetallic nitride based NHs are necessary, and there is strong synergistic effect or efficient electronic coupling between DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN and N-G constituents. To further examine the OER activity of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs and identify the impact of defects, the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs and commercial IrO2 are employed as the control catalysts. Figure 3A shows the OER polarization plots of those three catalysts at the potential window of 1.20-1.73 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)). The onset oxidation potential of the DR-Ni<sub>2</sub>FeN/N-G NHs is identified to be 1.45 V (vs RHE). And their onset overpotential  $(\eta_0)$  is calculated to be 0.22 V, which is smaller than that of the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs (0.27 V) and commercial IrO<sub>2</sub> catalyst (0.28 V). Except for  $\eta_0$ , the overpotential at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> ( $\eta_{10}$ ) is a key benchmark for evaluating the electrocatalytic performance of a desired OER catalyst. [59] As illustrated in Figure 3B, the  $\eta_{10}$  of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs is about 0.25 V, which is much smaller than that of the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs (0.32 V) as well as commercial IrO2 (0.34 V), and comparable or superior to recently reported some OER catalysts, such as 3D GN/CoAl-NS (0.252 V),[47] Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN nanoparticles (0.28 V),[42] NiFe-MOF thin films (0.27 V),[46] monolayer NiV-LDH nanosheets (0.32 V), [48] CoO<sub>x</sub>@N-doped C sheets (0.26 V),  $^{[60]}$   $Co_3O_4/N$ -rmGO (0.31 V),  $^{[61]}$   $Fe_3O_4@Co_9S_8/r$ GO (0.32 V), [62] N-doped crumpled G-CoO (0.34 V), [63] Ni<sub>3</sub>Fe/Ndoped C sheets (0.37 V),<sup>[64]</sup>  $Co_xO_v/N$ -doped C (0.43 V),<sup>[65]</sup> and so on. Except for  $\eta_{10}$ , the geometrical current densities at the overpotential of 300 and 350 mV are also compared and listed in Figure S15 (Supporting Information). Taking the overpotential at 350 mV as an example, it is clear that the current density of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs can reach 172.3 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 5.6 and 13.7 times as high as that of nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs and commercial IrO<sub>2</sub> catalyst. Additionally, to evaluate the OER kinetics of those catalysts, the related Tafel plots (E-log i) are obtained (Figure 3C). As can be seen, the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs show the smallest Tafel slope (38 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), implying that their OER kinetics is superior to other two catalysts yet. Besides the overpotential and Tafel slope, the turnover frequency (TOF) is another important parameter for examining the intrinsic activity of a desired catalyst. Among those

Figure 3. A) OER polarization curves for the DR-Ni $_3$ FeN/N-G NHs (plot a), the nearly defect-free Ni $_3$ FeN/N-G NHs (plot b), and commercial IrO $_2$  catalyst (plot c). B) Comparison of the overpotentials of those catalysts to attain the current density of 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ . C) Related Tafel plots for those catalysts. D) Durability test for the DR-Ni $_3$ FeN/N-G NHs.

three examined catalysts, the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NH exhibits the largest TOF value (0.46 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at η = 350 mV), further confirming it possesses the highest catalytic activity toward OER. Moreover, the TOF value of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs is superior to other reported OER catalysts yet (e.g., N-doped carbon supported Ni–Fe nanoparticles,[66] NiO/CoN porous nanowires,[67] Co*x*Ni1-*x*Fe2O4, [68] etc.). The detailed comparison of various catalytic activity parameters for DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs and other reported OER catalysts are summarized in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

Except for the catalytic activity, the long-term stability or durability is another important parameter for determining the practical applications of a specific electrocatalyst. The durability tests for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs are further performed, shown in Figure 3D. For comparison, the durability plots for the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs are also measured. As for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, their polarization plot is nearly overlapped with that of initial polarization plot after continuously working for 2000 cycles (12 h) in O2-saturated 1.0 m KOH solution. Whereas for the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, there is a large difference in their polarization plots before and after continuously cycling for 12 h under the same conditions (Figure S16, Supporting Information). These results demonstrate that the electrocatalytic stability of the former is also better than that of the latter. The higher catalytic stability of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs may arise from the presence of large amount of twin boundaries or defects in Ni3FeN NCs active phase, which can efficiently deplete the stresses and stabilize the interface structure.[69,70] Further evidence comes from the characterization of the catalyst after OER cycling tests. As illustrated in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), the microstructural analysis demonstrates that the twin crystal defects (fivefold twinned and microtwinned structures) or grain boundaries for Ni3FeN NCs can be reserved after continuously working for 2000 cycles. Moreover, the component identification (Figure S18, Supporting Information) reveals that the catalyst after cycling tests is still the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, and the Ni3FeN is only slightly oxidized to form small amount of amorphous Ni-Fe oxides/hydroxides.

To tentatively understand why the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs exhibit better catalytic activity than that of the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G ones, XPS was first employed to examine their surface electronic structure. As shown in **Figure 4**A, the binding energy (BE) of C 1s for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs is slightly negatively shifted to low-energy direction. As for the Ni 2p corelevel spectrum (Figure 4B), the metallic Ni(0) peak can be identified in the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs (the detailed deconvolution results are given in Figure S19, Supporting Information), but it disappears in the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. The disappearance of low-valence Ni(0) species in the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs could enhance the adsorption of H2O molecules that are helpful for improving the OER activity. Moreover, relative to that of the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, the BE of Ni 2p for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G is largely shifted to high-energy direction. In respect to the Fe 2p peaks (Figure 4C), there are nearly no changes on the BEs for those two catalysts. Whereas compared with that of nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, the BE of N1s peak (Figure 4D) for DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs is largely shifted to high-energy direction yet. These results imply that the

**Figure 4.** Comparison of A) C 1s, B) Ni 2p, C) Co 2p, and D) N 1s core level XPS spectra for the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs and the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs.

Figure 5. A) Nyquist plots for the DR-Ni $_3$ FeN/N-G NHs (plot a) and the nearly defect-free Ni $_3$ FeN/N-G NHs (plot b). B,C) CV curves for those two catalysts that measured at 1.14–1.19 V (vs RHE) with the scan rate ranging from 1 to 9 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. D) The plots of the current density versus the scan rate for those two catalysts.

electronic coupling or synergistic effect in the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs is much stronger than that in the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs, and the electrons or charge transfer may easily occur in the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs. In other words, the abundant defects in Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN NCs can enhance their interaction with N-G and improve the interfacial electron transfer kinetics of the NHs. Further evidence comes from the electrochemical impedance spectrum (EIS) tests under the actual OER conditions at the overpotential of 300 mV. The related Nyquist plots and equivalent circuit are shown in Figure 5A and Figure S20 (Supporting Information), respectively. After fitting the Nyquist plots, the value for various physical parameters can be obtained. As listed in Table S2 (Supporting Information), the interfacial electron transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ) of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs is identified to be 24.8  $\Omega$ , which is much lower than that of the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs ( $R_{ct} = 41.1 \Omega$ ). This result confirms that engineering defects facilitate to improve the interfacial electron transfer kinetics of the NHs.

Moreover, to verify the correlation of the defective structures and the number of the available catalytic active sites, the capacitance of the catalyst–solution interface and the roughness factors of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs and the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs catalysts were further estimated. As shown in Figure 5B,C, the current densities are measured from 1 to 9 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at the potential window of 1.14–1.19 V (vs RHE) and can be plotted as a function of the scan rate to study the effective surface area of those catalysts by evaluating the electrochemical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) and the roughness factor ( $R_{\rm fl}$ ). [20,24] As illustrated in Figure 5D, the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs is identified to be 3.13 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 1.6 times higher than that of the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs (1.95 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). Moreover, the  $R_{\rm fl}$  of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G

NHs and the nearly defect-free Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs are calculated to be 78.3 and 48.8, respectively, which follows the same order as that for  $C_{\rm dl}$ . Compared with their counterparts, the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs possess much higher  $C_{\rm dl}$  and  $R_{\rm f}$  values, revealing that there are more available active sites on them.

As discussed above, the enhanced electrocatalytic OER performance of the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs could reasonably be attributed to four aspects as follows: (1) As disclosed by the XPS spectra analysis, the abundant twin crystal defects enable the disappearance of low-valence Ni(0) species and largely shifting the Ni 2p and N 1s peaks to high binding energy direction, which can enhance the chemisorption for H<sub>2</sub>O molecules; (2) As evidenced by the EIS tests, the presence of abundant twin crystal defects in Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN NCs can improve the interfacial electronic transfer kinetics of the NHs; (3) As revealed by the number of active sites tests ( $C_{dl}$  and  $R_f$  values), the abundance of twin crystal defects in Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN NCs can offer more available catalytic active sites for the DR-Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN/N-G NHs; (4) the abundant twin crystal defects in Ni<sub>3</sub>FeN NCs can efficiently deplete the stress that generated during the OER and stabilize the interfacial structure of the NHs, as confirmed by analyzing the catalyst after cycling tests.

#### 3. Conclusions

In summary, the DR-Ni₃FeN/N-G NHs have been successfully synthesized through temperature-programmed annealing and nitridation treatment of NiFe-LDH/GO precursors by controlling annealing atmosphere. Except for the small amount of stacking faults (≈10%), the main defects observed in such NHs are the twin crystal defects or grain boundaries including

fivefold twinned crystals and microtwinned structures. Compared with that of the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs, Ni3FeN+N-G mixtures, pure Ni3FeN NCs and N-G nanosheets, and NiFe-LDH/GO precursors, the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs show greatly enhanced electrocatalytic activity for OER in alkaline media. Additionally, their catalytic activity outperforms commercial IrO2, and can compete with the state-of-the-art reported OER catalysts (e.g., Ni3FeN nanoparticles, NiFe-MOF thin films, 3D GN/CoAl-NS, Fe3O4@Co9S8/rGO, etc.). Moreover, they exhibit superior catalytic stability in relative to their counterparts (the nearly defect-free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs) yet. The excellent catalytic performance of such DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs results from the presence of abundant twin crystal defects in Ni3FeN NCs and the strong synergistic effect of their constituents, which not only enhance the interfacial electron transfer dynamics and offer more available catalytic active sites but also alleviate the stress and stabilize the interfacial structure of the NHs. This work not only offers a facile avenue for fabricating defect-rich bimetallic nitride NCs-based NHs but also paves the way for combining defects and hybridization strategies to develop advanced OER catalysts toward water splitting, artificial photosynthesis, or other renewable energy option.

### **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials and Reagents*: All the chemical reagents were obtained from the available commercial sources without further purification. The high purity graphite powder (>99.99%) and other reagents used for preparation of GO were purchased from Alfa Aesar. The NiCl2·6H2O (≥99.0%), FeCl3·6H2O (≥99.0%), NH4F (≥96.0%), and H2O2 (≥30.0%) were obtained from the Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. (Shanghai), and the NaNO3 (99.99%) and commercial IrO2 (99.9%) catalysts were bought from Aladdin.

*Synthesis of NiFe-LDH/GO Precursors*: Before the experiments, the GO nanosheets were prepared according to a modified Hummer's method. For each synthesis, the NiCl2·6H2O (118.9 mg), FeCl3·6H2O (27 mg), NaNO3 (81.6 mg), and NH4F (100 mg) were dissolved in 30 mL of GO aqueous solution (1.4 mg mL−<sup>1</sup> ) by violently magnetic stirring for 30 min. Then, 13 µL of H2O2 (30 wt%) was rapidly injected into the above mixed solution, and the pH of the reaction system was adjusted to ≈10 by drop-wise addition of 0.1 m NaOH solution. The resulting dark brown suspension was transferred to a Teflon-lined autoclave and kept at 150 °C for 12 h. After being washed with deionized water and ethanol for several times, the product was dried in vacuum at 50 °C for 2 h, and used for the subsequent synthesis.

*Synthesis of DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs*: In a typical synthesis, 100–150 mg of the NiFe-LDH/GO precursors was added into a porcelain boat, which was placed in the central region of a horizontal furnace. After purged with Ar gas for 20 min to exclude the air, the furnace was heated from room temperature (RT) to 600 °C under the flowing Ar and NH3 atmosphere with a heating rate of 5 °C min−<sup>1</sup> , and kept at 600 °C for 5 h. Finally, the furnace was naturally cooled down to RT, and the black product was collected for characterization.

*Synthesis of Nearly Defect-Free Ni3FeN/N-G NHs*: The synthetic process was similar to that for DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. The only difference is the annealing means. In this case, the NiFe-LDH/GO precursors were first annealed from RT to 600 °C under Ar atmosphere and kept at 600 °C for 1 h. Then, the NH3 was introduced and reacted at 600 °C for 5 h.

*Synthesis of Ni3FeN*+*N-G Mixtures*: First, the NiFe-LDH nanosheets were synthesized, and physically mixed with the GO to obtain the control precursors. Subsequently, the control precursors underwent the same annealing treatment as that for DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs.

*Synthesis of Ni3N/N-G and Fe2N/N-G NHs*: The synthetic procedures were similar to that for DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. The difference was that

only NiCl2·6H2O or FeCl3·6H2O was used to synthesize the precursors. It should be mentioned that the temperature was reduced to 500 °C and the time was shortened to 3 h for synthesis of Ni3N/N-G NHs.

*Synthesis of Pure Ni3FeN NCs and N-G Nanosheets*: The synthetic procedures were similar to DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs. The differences were that only the NiFe-LDH and GO nanosheets were used as the precursors for the subsequent annealing and nitriding treatment, respectively.

*Materials Characterization*: The XRD patterns were collected on a D/max 2500 VL/PC diffractometer (Japan) equipped with graphite monochromatized Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.54060 Å). The Raman spectra were recorded on a JY HR 800 (France) instrument with an optical multichannel spectrometer Microdil 28 (Dilor) equipped with a microscope. An objective with 100× magnification was used both for focusing the excitation light (Ar+ laser, 488 nm) and for collecting the scattered light. The XPS spectra were recorded on a scanning X-ray microprobe (PHI 5000 Versa, ULACPHI, Inc.) that uses Al Kα radiation. The FE-SEM images were conducted on JSM-7600F apparatus at the accelerating voltage of 10 kV. The related TEM, HRTEM, and HAADF-STEM images were carried out on JEOL-2100F and probe aberrationcorrected JEM ARM 200F apparatuses at the accelerating voltage of 200 kV, respectively. EIS tests were carried out on a CHI 700E electrochemical workstation in 1.0 m KOH solution at 298 K by applying a 10 mV potential modulation at the overpotential of 300 mV for OER. The EIS data were recorded at the frequency of 10−<sup>1</sup> –106 Hz. And the Zsimpwin software was employed to fit the EIS data.

*Electrocatalytic Tests*: All the electrocatalytic experiments were carried out on a CHI 700E electrochemical workstation equipped with the Gamry's rotating disk electrode (RDE, 5 mm in diameter). A standard three-electrode system was adopted for all the tests. The Ag/AgCl and Pt foil were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. The catalysts modified RDE were employed as the working electrodes, which were fabricated according to the following procedure: first, 2.5 mg of DR-Ni3FeN/N-G or other control catalysts were dispersed in 1 mL of ethanol and water, and 20 µL of 5.0 wt% Nafion solution by ultrasonication for 30 min to form a uniform catalyst ink. Subsequently, a total of 8 µL of this catalyst ink was coated on pretreated RDEs using a microliter syringe. After drying, the catalysts modified RDEs were fabricated. In this work, the total loading amount of various catalysts was fixed to be 20 µg. For the OER tests, the polarization curves were recorded in O2-saturated 1.0 m KOH electrolyte from 0 to 0.9 V (vs Ag/ AgCl) at the rotation rate of 1600 rpm. For comparison, all potentials were converted to a RHE values using the equation: *E*(RHE) = *E*Ag/AgCl + 0.197 + 0.0591pH. Moreover, all the polarization plots were corrected for solution resistance based on the equation: *E*corrected = *E* − *iR*, where *i* is the current and *R* is the uncompensated ohmic electrolyte resistance that was obtained from the high frequency region of ac impedance spectra in O2-saturated 1.0 m KOH.

The TOF Values of the DR-Ni3FeN/N-G NHs and other control catalysts were calculated according to the following equation: TOF = (*j* × *A*)/(4 × *F* × *m*). Here, the *j* is the current density obtained at a fixed overpotential in A cm<sup>−</sup>2, *A* is the surface area of the RDE (0.197 cm<sup>−</sup>2), *F* is the Faraday constant (96 485 C mol−<sup>1</sup> ), and *m* is the number of moles of the electroactive elements in the electrocatalysts modified on the RDE.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 21671106, 21271105, 21471081, 21471082, 11404314, and 21501095), research fund from the Priority Academic Program

Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions, Program for [20] Y. Chang, N. E. Shi, S. Zhao, D. Xu, C. Liu, Y. J. Tang, Z. Dai, Y. Q. Lan, M. Han, J. Bao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 22534.

- [21] Y. Liu, H. Cheng, M. Lyu, S. Fan, Q. Liu, W. Zhang, Y. Zhi, C. Wang, C. Xiao, S. Wei, B. Ye, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 15670.
- [22] L. An, Y. Li, M. Luo, J. Yin, Y.-Q. Zhao, C. Xu, F. Cheng, Y. Yang, P. Xi, S. Guo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2017**, *27*, 1703779.
- [23] G. Ou, P. Fan, H. Zhang, K. Huang, C. Yang, W. Yu, H. Wei, M. Zhong, H. Wu, Y. Li, *Nano Energy* **2017**, *35*, 207.
- [24] J. Bao, X. Zhang, B. Fan, J. Zhang, M. Zhou, W. Yang, X. Hu, H. Wang, B. Pan, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 7399.
- [25] Z. Nie, D. Ma, G. Fang, W. Chen, S. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 2438.
- [26] D. Yan, Y. Li, J. Huo, R. Chen, L. Dai, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, 1606459.
- [27] J. Hong, C. Jin, J. Yuan, Z. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606434.
- [28] Y. Zhao, C. Chang, F. Teng, Y. Zhao, G. Chen, R. Shi, G. I. N. Waterhouse, W. Huang, T. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700005.
- [29] J. Bak, H. B. Bae, J. Kim, J. Oh, S.-Y. Chung, *Nano Lett.* **2017**, *17*, 3126.
- [30] D. Shah, H. Reddy, N. Kinsey, V. M. Shalaev, A. Boltasseva, *Adv. Opt. Mater.* **2017**, *5*, 1700065.
- [31] H. Pan, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 21486.
- [32] M.-S. Balogun, Y. Huang, W. Qiu, H. Yang, H. Ji, Y. Tong, *Mater. Today* **2017**, *20*, 425.
- [33] T. Sun, Q. Wu, R. Chen, Y. Bu, Y. Jiang, Y. Li, L. Yang, X. Wang, Z. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 1857.
- [34] Y. Zhang, B. Ouyang, J. Xu, S. Chen, R. S. Rawat, H. J. Fan, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1600221.
- [35] L. Liu, X. Yang, N. Ma, H. Liu, Y. Xia, C. Chen, D. Yang, X. Yao, *Small* **2016**, *12*, 1295.
- [36] J. Luo, X. Tian, J. Zeng, Y. Li, H. Song, S. Liao, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 6165.
- [37] Y. Abghoui, A. L. Garden, J. G. Howalt, T. Vegge, E. Skúlason, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 635.
- [38] K. Xu, P. Chen, X. Li, Y. Tong, H. Ding, X. Wu, W. Chu, Z. Peng, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 4119.
- [39] P. Chen, K. Xu, Z. Fang, Y. Tong, J. Wu, X. Lu, X. Peng, H. Ding, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *127*, 14923.
- [40] F. Yu, H. Zhou, Z. Zhu, J. Sun, R. He, J. Bao, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 2052.
- [41] B. Cao, G. M. Veith, J. C. Neuefeind, R. R. Adzic, P. G. Khalifah, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 19186.
- [42] X. Jia, Y. Zhao, G. Chen, L. Shang, R. Shi, X. Kang, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L.-Z. Wu, C.-H. Tung, T. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1502585.
- [43] B. Zhang, C. Xiao, S. Xie, J. Liang, X. Chen, Y. Tang, *Chem. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 6934.
- [44] M. Jiang, Y. Li, Z. Lu, X. Sun, X. Duan, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2016**, *3*, 630.
- [45] Y. Wang, C. Xie, D. Liu, X. Huang, J. Huo, S. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 18652.
- [46] L. Wang, Y. Wu, R. Cao, L. Ren, M. Chen, X. Feng, J. Zhou, B. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2016**, *8*, 16736.
- [47] J. Ping, Y. Wang, Q. Lu, B. Chen, J. Chen, Y. Huang, Q. Ma, C. Tan, J. Yang, X. Cao, Z. Wang, J. Wu, Y. Ying, H. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 7640.
- [48] K. Fan, H. Chen, Y. Ji, H. Huang, P. M. Claesson, Q. Daniel, B. Philippe, H. Rensmo, F. Li, Y. Luo, L. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 11981.
- [49] Z. Wang, L. Qie, L. Yuan, W. Zhang, X. Hu, Y. Huang, *Carbon* **2013**, *55*, 328.
- [50] L. Lai, J. R. Potts, D. Zhan, L. Wang, C. K. Poh, C. Tang, H. Gong, Z. Shen, J. Lin, R. S. Ruoff, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 7936.

Outstanding Innovation Research Team of Universities in Jiangsu Province, Graduate Student Innovation Fund in Jiangsu Province (Grant No. KYLX16\_1267), and opening research foundations of the State Key Laboratory of Coordination Chemistry, Nanjing National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, Nanjing University.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Keywords**

defects, electrocatalysis, metal nitrides, nanohybrids, N-doped graphene, oxygen evolution reaction

> Received: October 17, 2017 Published online:

- [1] Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. T. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 2060.
- [2] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, 146.
- [3] J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1383.
- [4] L. C. Seitz, C. F. Dickens, K. Nishio, Y. Hikita, J. Montoya, A. Doyle, C. Kirk, A. Vojvodic, H. Y. Hwang, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2016**, *353*, 1011.
- [5] Y. Zhu, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1603793.
- [6] Y. Umena, K. Kawakami, J. R. Shen, N. Kamiya, *Nature* **2011**, *473*, 55.
- [7] Y. Pi, Q. Shao, P. Wang, F. Lv, S. Guo, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *129*, 4573.
- [8] A. Bergmann, I. Zaharieva, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2013**, *6*, 2745.
- [9] Y. Wang, T. Zhou, K. Jiang, P. Da, Z. Peng, J. Tang, B. Kong, W. Cai, Z. Yang, G. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2014**, *4*, 1400696.
- [10] K. Fominykh, P. Chernev, I. Zaharieva, J. Sicklinger, G. Stefanic, M. Doblinger, A. Muller, A. Pokharel, S. Bocklein, C. Scheu, T. Bein, D. Fattakhova-Rohlfing, *ACS Nano* **2015**, *9*, 5180.
- [11] Y. Liu, C. Xiao, M. Lyu, Y. Lin, W. Cai, P. Huang, W. Tong, Y. Zou, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *127*, 11383.
- [12] Y. Zheng, M. Gao, Q. Gao, H. Li, J. Xu, Z. Wu, S. Yu, *Small* **2015**, *11*, 182.
- [13] S. Zhao, Y. Wang, J. Dong, C. He, H. Yin, P. An, K. Zhao, X. Zhang, C. Gao, L. Zhang, *Nat. Energy* **2016**, *1*, 16184.
- [14] M. Ledendecker, S. Krick Calderón, C. Papp, H.-P. Steinrück, M. Antonietti, M. Shalom, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 12361.
- [15] D. Li, H. Baydoun, B. Kulikowski, S. L. Brock, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 3048.
- [16] Y. Liu, H. Wang, D. Lin, C. Liu, P.-C. Hsu, W. Liu, W. Chen, Y. Cui, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 1719.
- [17] H. Kim, J. Park, I. Park, K. Jin, S. E. Jerng, S. H. Kim, K. T. Nam, K. Kang, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 8253.
- [18] L. Zhao, B. Dong, S. Li, L. Zhou, L. Lai, Z. Wang, S. Zhao, M. Han, K. Gao, M. Lu, X. Xie, B. Chen, Z. Liu, X. Wang, H. Zhang, H. Li, J. Liu, H. Zhang, X. Huang, W. Huang, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 5800.
- [19] X. Cui, P. Ren, D. Deng, J. Deng, X. Bao, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2016**, *9*, 123.

- [51] C. Dong, T. Kou, H. Gao, Z. Peng, Z. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, 1701347.
- [52] Y. Fan, S. Ida, A. Staykov, T. Akbay, H. Hagiwara, J. Matsuda, K. Kaneko, T. Ishihara, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1700099.
- [53] Y. Hou, Z. Wen, S. Cui, X. Feng, J. Chen, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 2268.
- [54] Y. Wang, D. Liu, Z. Liu, C. Xie, J. Huo, S. Wang, *Chem. Commun.* **2016**, *52*, 12614.
- [55] B. Cao, G. M. Veith, R. E. Diaz, J. Liu, E. A. Stach, R. R. Adzic, P. G. Khalifah, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 10753.
- [56] A. M. Appel, *Nature* **2014**, *508*, 460.
- [57] J. Wang, Z. Zeng, C. R. Weinberger, Z. Zhang, T. Zhu, S. X. Mao, *Nat. Mater.* **2015**, *14*, 594.
- [58] L. Dubau, J. Nelayah, S. Moldovan, O. Ersen, P. Bordet, J. Drnec, T. Asset, R. Chattot, F. Maillard, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 4673.
- [59] Y. Gorlin, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 13612.
- [60] H. Jin, J. Wang, D. Su, Z. Wei, Z. Pang, Y. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 2688.
- [61] Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780.

- [62] J. Yang, G. Zhu, Y. Liu, J. Xia, Z. Ji, X. Shen, S. Wu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, 4712.
- [63] S. Mao, Z. Wen, T. Huang, Y. Hou, J. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2014**, *7*, 609.
- [64] G. Fu, Z. Cui, Y. Chen, Y. Li, Y. Tang, J. B. Goodenough, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *7*, 1601172.
- [65] J. Masa, W. Xia, I. Sinev, A. Zhao, Z. Sun, S. Grutzke, P. Weide, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2014**, *53*, 8508.
- [66] Z. Zhang, Y. Qin, M. Dou, J. Ji, F. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *30*, 426.
- [67] J. Yin, Y. Li, F. Lv, Q. Fan, Y.-Q. Zhao, Q. Zhang, W. Wang, F. Cheng, P. Xi, S. Guo, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, 2275.
- [68] V. Maruthapandian, M. Mathankumar, V. Saraswathy, B. Subramanian, S. Muralidharan, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2017**, *9*, 13132.
- [69] Y. Yan, L. Thia, B. Y. Xia, X. Ge, Z. Liu, A. Fisher, X. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2015**, *2*, 1500120.
- [70] X. Li, K. Lu, *Nat. Mater.* **2017**, *16*, 700.