---
source: Zhou 等 - 2021 - Simple Construction of Amorphous Monometallic Cobalt‐Based Selenite Nanoparticles using Ball Milling.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 34.075s
generated: 2026-01-09T08:47:33.526977Z
---

# Simple Construction of Amorphous Monometallic Cobalt-Based Selenite Nanoparticles using Ball Milling for Highly **Efficient Oxygen Evolution Reaction**

Ling-Li Zhou,<sup>[a]</sup> Dong-Sheng Pan,<sup>[a]</sup> Zheng-Han Guo,<sup>[a]</sup> Jin-Kun Li,<sup>[a]</sup> Sai Huang,<sup>[a]</sup> and Jun-Ling Song\*[a]

Amorphous transition-metal based materials with disordered structure are very desirable in the field of sustainable energy devices and technologies such as water-splitting and secondary batteries due to their inherent properties of anisotropy and defects. To date, it is very urgent to explore new methods to prepare amorphous electrocatalysts. Herein, we use a simple approach to construct amorphous Co-based selenite electrocatalyst by mechanical ball milling for oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Due to its amorphous structure as well as more active species, the obtained amorphous cobalt selenite C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h material on the glassy carbon electrode shows superior electrochemical performance with a low overpotential of 255 mV to drive 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte. In addition, this catalyst also has an excellent intrinsic activity (high mass activity of 162.0 Ag<sup>-1</sup> and TOF of 0.063 s<sup>-1</sup> at the overpotential of 350 mV) and remarkable long-term stability (at least 32 h at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). This study offers a simple and environmentally friendly method to construct highly efficient electrocatalysts for water oxidation.

### Introduction

The earth-abundant metal-based materials such as transitionmetal (TM) are currently applied as electrocatalysts under alkaline systems for renewable energy technologies (water splitting and metal air cells). [1-3] However, they still had relatively large overpotentials and slow reaction kinetics during water electrolysis due to their low intrinsic activity, especially for oxygen evolution reaction (OER), one of its half-reactions. [4-5] To reduce OER overpotential, many methods and strategies have been reported, such as heteroatom doping to improve the inherent activity by adjusting their electronic structure[6-8] or preparation of materials with amorphous structures to increase the number of active sites and accelerate ionic diffusion. [9-10] Recent investigations have pointed out that the amorphous phases associated with anisotropy and defect could be beneficial to achieve effective water oxidation owing to their more catalytically active sites.[11-17] Thence, more and more strategies for preparing electrocatalysts with amorphous structures have been reported. For instance, Zhou et al.[11] prepared an amorphous NiFe LDH grown on CuO nanorod arrays by an electrochemical deposition method, which could reach the current density of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with only an overpotential of 290 mV. Li et al. [13] proposed a three-step way of hydrothermal reaction (first and second step) and high temperature calcination (third step) to synthesize amorphous nickel-iron-molybdenum porous nanosheet arrays supported on foam nickel, which had a low potential of 255 mV to drive a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Zhong et al.<sup>[15]</sup> synthesized an amorphous F—CoO electrocatalyst with the overpotential of 237.7 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> using a two-step anodic oxidation. The methods mentioned above could improve their OER performance due to more active sites and greater stability compared to their crystalline counterparts, but the synthesis process involves multiple steps, leading to the more complicated preparation process. Thus, there is an urgent need to find simple and environmentally friendly ways to synthesize the highly efficient catalysts for practical industrial applications.

In recent years, mechanical ball milling technology has been considered as a simple and efficient method for constructing low-scale functional materials, the moving balls can transfer their energy to the ground materials during the ball milling process, resulting in the breakage and formation of chemical bonds on the new surfaces through crushing material particles,[18-19] such as alloys,[20] non-metallic material,[21] metal oxyhydroxides, [22] or metal phosphides, [23] For example, the red phosphorus-black phosphorus/graphite heterostructure as OER electrocatalysts, prepared by a simple ball milling method, showed high electrocatalytic activity with an overpotential of 328 mV @ 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  and a small Tafel slope of 58 mV dec $^{-1}$ .[21] Thorpe co-workers presented amorphous  $Ni_{79.2-x}Co_xNb_{12.5}Y_{8.3}$  (x=0 and 5 at %) nanoparticles through a two-stage ball milling technology, which maintained a low overpotential of 346 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> even after 10,000 cycles for OER in alkaline condition.<sup>[24]</sup> Furthermore, selenites have recently attracted interest as promising OER electrocatalysts because they significantly reduced the overpotential. For

School of Chemical and Material Engineering Jiangnan University Lihu Street 1800 Wuxi 214122 (P. R. China) E-mail: ilsona@iiananan.edu.cn

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cctc.202100123

Wiley Online Library ChemCatChem 2021, 13, 1-8 These are not the final page numbers!

<sup>[</sup>a] L.-L. Zhou, D.-S. Pan, Z.-H. Guo, J.-K. Li, S. Huang, Prof. J.-L. Song International Joint Research Center for Photoresponsive Molecules and

instance, very recently, an amorphous bimetallic NiFe-based selenite demonstrated superior OER activity with a low overpotential of 257 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , a small Tafel slope of 34 mV·dec <sup>1</sup> and excellent stability within 80 hrs through the vacancy-boosting strategy.[25] And recently we have successfully designed an amorphous CoFe selenite with nanospindle-like morphology based on a strategy of hydrothermal reaction and high temperature calcination, which showed great electrocatalytic performance toward OER with a low overpotential of 242 mV at the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [26] However, this method requires high temperature calcination, which increases energy consumption and the release of toxic gases. Up to date, there are few progresses on amorphous transition-metal based selenite electrocatalysts. We believe that it is of great importance to explore the high catalytic activity electrocatalyst for OER from the amorphous mono-transition metal selenite system. Therefore, in this work, via a simple, efficient, low cost and environmentally-friendly method, an amorphous threedimensional (3D) cobalt selenite with abundant active sites, namely, C4S-12 h, was prepared by mechanical ball-milling C4S precursor, which was illustrated in Scheme 1. This prepared C4S-12 h electrocatalyst exhibited superb electrochemical performance for OER, which could reach the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at a low overpotential of 255 mV and had fast kinetics with a Tafel slope of 71.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ; in addition, it displayed high mass activity with 162 Ag <sup>1</sup> at the overpotential of 350 mV, and long-term stability with almost no decay for 32 hours of continuous operation. Its superior OER performance should benefit from its amorphous structure resulting in more active sites.

# **Results and Discussion**

The synthesis route of amorphous TM-selenite electrocatalyst was shown in Scheme 1. Firstly, the pink needle-shaped C4S selenite crystals were fabricated through a hydrothermal method adjusting pH by 1,4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2] octane. Subsequently, the amorphous purple tiny bulk C4S-12 h powder was obtained followed by simple mechanical ball milling C4S sample.

The crystalline structure of the as-synthesized TM-selenite was systematically revealed by XRD as displayed in Figure 1,

**Figure 1.** The XRD pattern of C4S, C4S-6 h and C4S-12 h.

well matching that of Co4(H2O)3(SeO3)4 (Inorganic Crystal Database: ICSD-281510)[27] without any impurity peaks, indicating it is Co4(H2O)3(SeO3)4 phase, which is composed of CoO6 octahedra and SeO3 trigonal pyramids. Except for Co1, other Co atoms are coordinated by six-oxygen atoms from one water molecule and five SeO3 anions (Figure S1a–d), showing a moderate distortion from degree of distortion (Δd) as shown in Table S1. And these edge-sharing [CoO6] octahedra form Co2O10 dimers, further, these dimers linked via edge-sharing form 1D infinite zigzag chains [Co2O9]1. The above chains are interconnected, forming infinite zig-zag layers and the isolated SeO3 trigonal pyramids connect these layers to construct its 3D open-framework structure along the *b*-axis. Compared with the crystalline C4S sample, obviously, most diffraction peaks of C4S-6 h disappeared, besides, the intensity of the residual diffraction peaks was significantly lower after six hours mechanical ball milling, furthermore, the structure completely transformed into an amorphous structure after another six hours, which should be attributed to the formation of disordered structure induced by ball milling, which could produce more active sites to enhance the OER performance.[28] From SEM images (Figure S2a–b), the particle size of C4S-12 h were obviously smaller than that of the pristine cobalt selenite, C4S, the average particle size was

**Scheme 1.** The synthetic route for the C4S and C4S-12 h materials.

reduced to about 250 nm as shown in the particle size distribution image (Figure S2c), after 12 h of ball milling, facilitating the exposure of active sites. In addition, its chemical component and content of Co, Se and O has no significant change from EDX results (Figure S3) before and after mechanical ball milling. Furthermore, TEM and HRTEM were performed to further investigate their morphology, as presented in Figure 2. From the selected area electron diffraction (SAED, Figure 2a), it could be only seen a halo, further demonstrating that C4S-12 h exhibited an amorphous nature, in accordance with the above XRD result. And from Figure 2b, these particles are stacked up from thin-sheet, besides, there was no any lattice fringes in HR-TEM (Figure 2c), also further confirming its non-crystalline feature. In addition, the EDS mapping analysis (Figure 2d) clearly displayed that Co, Se and O were uniformly distributed throughout the amorphous cobalt selenite particle area.

As shown in FT-IR spectra (Figure S4a) of as-synthesized samples before and after mechanical ball milling, a typical absorption band of SeO3 <sup>2</sup> at 660 cm <sup>1</sup> could be observed,[29] the broad absorption band around 3200 cm <sup>1</sup> belongs to the coordinated H2O, and the absorption peak at 1600 cm <sup>1</sup> is indexed to O H stretching vibration,[30,31] The absorption bands at 1000 cm <sup>1</sup> are assigned to Co O coordination bonds.[32] As a comparison, for C4S-6 h and C4S-12 h, the intensity of peak at 1600 and 1000 cm <sup>1</sup> became weaker after ball milling than that of C4S. Besides, from Raman spectra, it can be seen that there is no obvious difference before and after mechanical ball milling. The band observed at around 840 cm <sup>1</sup> for crystalline C4S and amorphous C4S-12 h is attributed to the symmetric stretching mode (*ν*s) of SeO3 anions,[25,26] which was in agreement with FT-IR results. According to TGA and DTA curve (Figure S5), it could be found that there was no decomposition for as-synthesized C4S within 425°C, indicating its good thermal stability; therefore, the C4S-6 h and C4S-12 h should keep the same composition as C4S although they gradually changed from crystalline materials to amorphous structures during mechanical ball milling. We also investigated the BET surface area of C4S and C4S-12 h, which were obtained by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms, as shown in Figure S6. C4S-12 h had a relatively larger BET surface area of 6.6 m2g <sup>1</sup> than that of C4S (1.3 m2g <sup>1</sup> ), which was in line with the above SEM results (Figure S2a–2b). The relatively larger surface area of C4S-12 h should provide more paths and active sites for the charge and mass transport during the OER process, which should be beneficial to increase its electrocatalytic performance.[33–34]

XPS characterization was also performed to investigate their surface chemical valence and composition. The XPS survey spectrum in Figure 3a illustrated the existence of Co, Se and O elements on the amorphous C4S-12 h surface. In spectrum of Co 2p (Figure 3b), there was almost no shift after mechanical ball milling, two peaks at 780.7 eV and 796.8 eV were ascribed to Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2, respectively, accompanied by two satellite peaks (sat.). The peak located at 780.7 eV could be deconvolved into Co3<sup>+</sup> (780.2 eV) and Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (781.5 eV), and the other peak at 796.8 eV could be indexed to Co3<sup>+</sup> (796.4 eV) and Co2<sup>+</sup> (797.8 eV).[26,35–37] However, it was found that the peak of SeOx at 58.5 eV has some shift in the Se 3d spectrum (Figure 3c),[26,37,38] approximately a positive shift of 0.66 eV compared with that of the crystalline C4S sample, revealing the increase of lowcoordination Se content, which could be attributed to probable existence of Se vacancies in the amorphous C4S-12 h material, which would facilitate the enhanced OER performance.[39–40] Correspondingly, it could be seen that the Se O M peak around 530.7 eV[41–42] in the O 1s high-spectrum (Figure 3d) also has an obvious high-energy shift. Thus, the electronic structure of this amorphous material could be changed by this mechanical ball milling method.

The electrocatalytic activity of the prepared materials on a glassy carbon (GC) electrode toward OER was assessed in O2 saturated 1.0 M KOH alkaline electrolyte. As a comparison, commercial IrO2 was also investigated under the same condition. Figure 4a depicts the LSV curves without *iR* correction of C4S, C4S-6 h, C4S-12 h and IrO2 at 5 mVs 1 . Among the above

**Figure 2.** (a) Selected-area electron diffraction (SAED), (b) TEM, (c) HR-TEM image of C4S-12 h and (e) elemental mapping of Co, Se and O in the C4S-12 h.

**Figure 3.** (a) XPS survey spectra, (b) Co 2p, (c) Se 3d and (d) O 1s spectra for the crystalline C4S and amorphous C4S-12 h.

catalysts, C4S-12 h shows the best electrocatalytic performance. In detail, a low overpotential of 255 mV is applied to drive the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for C4S-12 h, which is significantly smaller than C4S (287 mV), C4S-6 h (273 mV) and IrO2 (310 mV), and dramatically better than many other transition metal-based materials reported in recent years (Table S3). At the same time, the C4S-12 h electrode has the smallest onset potential of 201 mV compared with that of C4S (239 mV), C4S-6 h (230 mV) and IrO2 (264 mV) in this study (Table S2). Furthermore, it demonstrates that the C4S-12 h possesses the lowest overpotential under different current density of 5, 10, 50 and 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure S7). According to the results mentioned above, the superior electrocatalytic activity of the electrocatalyst obtained from mechanical-ball milling method should gradually change from crystalline materials to amorphous structures during mechanical ball milling, leading to their more active sites and reconstructing electronic structure, compared with their precursor sample C4S.[43,44] Further, their reaction kinetics could be evaluated from Tafel slope in Figure 4b and 4c, which is attained by calculating LSV curve data on base of η=b log(j)+a, where η is equivalent to the overpotential, b denotes the Tafel slope. The fitted data reveals that the C4S-12 h has the smallest Tafel value of 71.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , which is lower than that of C4S-6 h (74.4 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), C4S (78.8 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) and commercial IrO2 (83.7 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) in this study, demonstrating this amorphous C4S-12 h catalyst exhibits an improved reaction kinetic rate compared with C4S-6 h and crystalline C4S during water oxidation process in 1.0 M KOH. In addition, we measure electrochemical surface area (ECSA) to estimate the

intrinsic activity of the above catalysts just by performing CV scans at different rates in the non-Faraday region, because ECSA is in linear relationship with double-layer capacitance (*Cdl*).[45] It can be seen in Figure S8, the current density of amorphous C4S-12 h is drastically higher than that of other electrocatalyst in this study at the same scan rate. As depicted in Figure 4d, the *Cdl* of the C4S-12 h catalyst is 60.43 mF/cm2 , such a high value is almost 1.3 times that of C4S-6 h (46.15 mF/ cm<sup>2</sup> ), 2.1 times that of C4S (28.95 mF/cm2 ), and especially 23.2 times that of IrO2 (2.61 mF/cm<sup>2</sup> ), respectively. This result indicates that C4S-12 h has a larger electrochemical surface area than other electrocatalysts in this study, which could be beneficial to effective adsorption and transfer of reaction intermediates, thereby resulting in its increased OER activity.[4] To deeper assess the intrinsic activity of the electrocatalysts prepared above, their mass activity (MA) and turnover frequency (TOF) (Table S2) are determined. It is worth mentioning that the C4S-12 h exhibits high MA of 162 Ag <sup>1</sup> at the overpotential of 350 mV in Figure S9, which is 1.36 times that of C4S-6 h (119.1 Ag <sup>1</sup> ), 1.59 times that of C4S (101.8 Ag <sup>1</sup> ) and even 2.97 times that of IrO2 (54.6 Ag <sup>1</sup> ), respectively, much higher than those of previously reported monometallic catalysts, further proving the superiority of amorphous C4S-12 h. What is more, we estimate the TOF based on each metal atom being active site at the same time. As can be seen in Table S2, the TOF value of C4S-12 h at the overpotential of 350 mV is the highest (0.063 s 1 ) compared with that of C4S-6 h (0.046 s 1 ), C4S (0.039 s 1 ) and IrO2 (0.016 s 1 ), respectively, further confirming the fact that C4S-12 h displays better intrinsic OER activity

**Figure 4.** The electrocatalytic performance of the as-obtained catalyst in 1.0 M KOH. (a) LSV curve without iR compensation and (b) the corresponding Tafel slopes of C4S, C4S-6 h, C4S-12 h and commercial IrO2. (c) Comparison of the η @ 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and Tafel slope values for C4S, C4S-6 h, C4S-12 h and commercial IrO2 catalyst, the error bars stand for the range of several individual test results. (d) Plots of ECSA at 1.14 V vs the scan rates from 20 to 100 mVs <sup>1</sup> for the above catalysts. (e) The Nyquist diagram for C4S, C4S-6 h, C4S-12 h and IrO2, the inset is a simplified equivalent circuit image. (f) The *i*–*t* curve of C4S-12 h coated on carbon cloth at a constant potential *E*=1.45 V vs. RHE for OER.

among other studied catalysts. And the Faradaic efficiency is calculated via gas chromatography (GC) by comparing experimental and theoretical of oxygen production. The C4S-12 h possesses the Faradaic efficiency of 95.4% (Figure S10), which reveals that the current charge formed is mostly derived from OER. In order to survey the electron-transfer kinetics of the asprepared electrocatalysts during OER process,[46] we carried out the EIS test and the Nyquist diagram was presented in Figure 4e. It is obvious that the semicircle diameter in connection with charge transfer resistance (*Rct*) of C4S-12 h is the smallest. The solution resistance (*Rs*) and charge transfer resistance (*Rct*) were shown in the Table S4 obtained by simulating the simplified equivalent circuit (inset of Figure 4), in which C4S-12 h has the smallest *Rct* (1.921 Ω), significantly less than those of C4S-6 h (2.613 Ω), C4S (3.229 Ω) and IrO2 (3.567 Ω), demonstrating that C4S-12 h with amorphous structure has favorable kinetic properties of charge transfer at the electrode and electrolyte interface, correspondingly contributing to the excellent OER electrocatalytic activity.[47]

From a practical point of view, the OER durability of electrocatalyst is a particularly important criterion, therefore, we performed chronoamperometric response at a potential of 1.45 V vs. RHE in 1.0 M KOH to evaluate the stability of C4S-12 h. As shown in Figure 4, the current density of C4S-12 h electrode has no obvious decay after 32 hours of continuous oxygen production, noteworthily, the current density can maintain 90.1% of the initial after long-term operation. Besides, we measure the LSV of C4S-12 h before and after 2000 consecutive CV within the range of applied 1.15~1.75 V vs. RHE (Figure S11a), the initial curve and the final one almost completely overlap, suggesting nearly no activity decrease, which is in accordance with the result of *i*-*t*, again proving the superior stability. All the above results prove that C4S-12 h shows the best OER electrocatalytic performance compared with other materials in this study. The outstanding electrocatalytic proper-

ties of C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h may be due to its disordered amorphous structure and regulated electronic structure, which reduces the energy barrier to facilitate the adsorption of reactants and exposes more active sites, [48] leading to its enhanced water oxidation activity. In addition, XRD, FT-IR, SEM, XPS and EDX were carried out for further insight of the structure and composition of the C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h after OER test. XRD pattern of C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h (Figure S12a) is different from the initial amorphous structure, some new diffraction peaks emerged, which might be derived from selenite, oxide, or hydroxide of cobalt, indicating the surface oxidization of the catalyst. In addition, as shown in Figure S12c, the percentage of O distinctly increases from its EDX, which agrees with the results of XRD after OER, also further illustrating the surface oxidization of the catalyst during the OER process. On the contrary, the content of Se reduced from 42.34% to 2.51%, possibly it was because that part of SeO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> transformed into SeO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> with higher solubility during alkaline water oxidization process, which dissolved into electrolyte, according to XRD of C₄S after soaking in 1.0 KOH solution for 24 h (Figure S13). Furthermore, a typical peak of SeO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> around 670 cm<sup>-1</sup> disappears from FT-IR spectra after OER measurement (Figure S12b). The significant peak around 3200 cm<sup>-1</sup> becomes broader, and the vibrational peak loaded at 975 cm<sup>-1</sup> indexed to O-H is also more obvious. All the results confirm the formation of metal oxide or hydroxide on the surface of the C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h catalyst. Besides, the post XPS result (Figure S14a and Table S5) displays that Co, O and Se elements still distributed in the catalyst surface after OER test. From Figure S14b, we can find that the peak of Co  $2p_{\scriptscriptstyle 3/2}$  has negatively shifted from 780.8 eV to 780.2 eV, the peak for Co 2p<sub>1/2</sub> also significantly shifts from 796.9 eV to 795.4 eV, indicating that Co on the surface of  $C_4S-12\ h$  was oxidized during the OER in 1.0 M KOH.[49,50] Moreover, the content of Se-O in the Se 3d spectrum (Figure S14c) obviously increases compared with the initial C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h. Meanwhile, as the O 1s spectra after the OER (Figure S14d) exhibited, the M-O-Se bond exists with a very low peak intensity, the content of the peak of M-OH (532.1 eV) evidently increases, and a new peak of H<sub>2</sub>O at 533.9 eV<sup>[51]</sup> appears, which suggest that the formation of oxy/ hydroxides on the surface of C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h during water oxidation, consistent with the result of the FT-IR after OER, which should also contribute to its enhanced OER performance via in-situ electrochemical activation during water-oxidation process. From SEM images of the C<sub>4</sub>S-12 h after OER test (Figure S15), its morphology could be maintained except these particles became more aggregated, the thickness was thinner and the surface were rougher, which also benefitted electrocatalytic performance.

#### Conclusion

In conclusion, we presented a simple and environmentally friendly method to construct amorphous cobalt selenite using mechanical ball milling. The amorphous Co-based selenite electrocatalyst exhibits excellent electrocatalytic activity with a low overpotential of 255 mV to achieve the current density of

 $10 \, \text{mA} \, \text{cm}^{-2}$  and a high mass activity of  $162.0 \, \text{Ag}^{-1}$  at the overpotential of 350 mV, which should be attributed to a large number of active sites, high intrinsic conductivity and fast mass/charge transport. The amorphous  $C_4S-12 \, \text{h}$  also displays remarkable stability, which remains  $90.1 \, \%$  of the initial current density after electrocatalytic oxygen production for  $32 \, \text{h}$ . Therefore, in this work, we developed a promising electrocatalysts by a simple method for energy conversion systems, especially water splitting and metal-air/ion batteries.

# **Experimental Section**

#### Synthesis of Co<sub>4</sub>(H<sub>2</sub>O)<sub>3</sub>(SeO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>4</sub> crystals (denoted as C<sub>4</sub>S)

 $C_4S$  materials were synthesized via a simple hydrothermal method. In detail, 4 mmol SeO<sub>2</sub>, 5 mmol NH<sub>4</sub>Cl, and 1 mmol CoCl<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O were dissolved in 4 mL deionized water with continuous stirring for 30 min in a small beaker, then 1,4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2] octane was added into the above solution under magnetic stirring to adjust pH to 4–5. Subsequently, the mixture was transferred to a 20 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and heated to 120 °C for 2 days. After cooling to room temperature at a rate of 5 °C/h, the pink strip-shaped crystals were obtained by vacuum filtration. Finally, the samples were rinsed with deionized H<sub>2</sub>O and absolute  $C_2H_5OH$  more than 3 times, respectively.

## Synthesis of C<sub>4</sub>S-6h and C<sub>4</sub>S-12h

The  $C_4S$ -6 h and  $C_4S$ -12 h catalysts were prepared by a simple one-step mechanical ball milling method in a vertical planetary ball miller. Typically, a certain amount of  $C_4S$  powder was placed in an agate ball milling tank with a capacity of 50 mL, and then agate balls were added. The ball milling process was performed at a constant rotating speed of 500 rpm. After 6 h and 12 h of ball milling, the final  $C_4S$ -6 h and  $C_4S$ -12 h powders were collected, respectively.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors would thank the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 21975106 and 21403232), MOE & SAFEA for 111 Project (B13025) for financial support and we thank for the instrument support of the central laboratory central laboratory, school of chemical and material engineering, Jiangnan University.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** Electrocatalyst  $\cdot$  ball milling  $\cdot$  long-term stability  $\cdot$  oxygen evolution reaction  $\cdot$  high mass activity  $\cdot$  nanoparticles  $\cdot$  selenite

[1] M. Yan, K. Mao, P. Cui, C. Chen, J. Zhao, X. Wang, L. Yang, H. Yang, Q. Wu, Z. Hu, Nano Res. 2020, 13, 328–334.

- [2] L. Zhou, M. Guo, Y. Li, Q. Gu, W. Zhang, C. Li, F. Xie, D. Lin, Q. Zheng, *Chem. Commun.* **2019**, *55*, 4218–4221.
- [3] P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, I. Zaharieva, C. Walter, S. Loos, S. Hoffmann, R. Schlo"gl, H. Dau, M. Driess, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 988–999.
- [4] X. Peng, Y. Yan, X. Jin, C. Huang, W. Jin, B. Gao, P. K. Chu, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *78* 105234.
- [5] X. Wang, L. Yu, B. Y. Guan, S. Song, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1801211.
- [6] T. Tang, W.-J. Jiang, S. Niu, N. Liu, H. Luo, Y.-Y. Chen, S.-F. Jin, F. Gao, L.-J. Wan, J.-S. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8320–8328.
- [7] Z. Shi, W. Yang, Y. Gu, T. Liao, Z. Sun, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 2001069.
- [8] X. Liu, X. Fan, H. Huang, H. Lin, J. Gao, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2021**, *587*, 385–392.
- [9] J. Liu, Y. Ji, J. Nai, X. Niu, Y. Luo, L. Guo, S. Yang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 1736–1741.
- [10] J. Wang, Y. Gao, H. Kong, J. Kim, S. Choi, F. Ciucci, Y. Hao, S. Yang, Z. Shao, J. Lim, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 9154–9196.
- [11] Q. Zhou, T.-T. Li, J. Qian, W. Xu, Y. Hu, Y.-Q. Zheng, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *1*, 1364–1373.
- [12] R. Sukanya, S.-M. Chen, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2020**, *580*, 318–331.
- [13] Y.-K. Li, G. Zhang, W.-T. Lu, F.-F. Cao, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1902034.
- [14] Y. Sato, Y. Aoki, K. Takase, H. Kiuchi, D. Kowalski, H. Habazaki, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 5269–5276.
- [15] C. Zhong, Z. Han, T. Wang, Q. Wang, Z. Shen, Q. Zhou, J. Wang, S. Zhang, X. Jin, S. Li, P. Wang, D. Gao, Y. Zhou, H. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 10831–10838.
- [16] H. Zhou, M. Zheng, H. Tang, B. Xu, Y. Tang, H. Pang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1904252.
- [17] H. Qiao, Y. Yang, X. Dai, H. Zhao, J. Yong, L. Yu, X. Luan, M. Cui, X. Zhang, X. Huang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2019**, *318*, 430–439.
- [18] P. Baláž, M. Achimovičová, M. Baláž, P. Billik, Z. Cherkezova-Zheleva, J. Manuel Criado, F. Delogu, E. Dutkova, E. Gaffet, F. J. Gotor, R. Kumar, I. Mitov, T. Rojac, M. Senna, A. Streletskii, K. Wieczorek-Ciurowa, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2013**, *42*, 7571–7637.
- [19] C. Liu, X. Liu, J. Tan, Q. Wang, H. Wen, C. Zhang, *J. Power Sources* **2017**, *342*, 157–164.
- [20] J. López-García, V. Sánchez-Alarcos, V. Recarte, J. A. Rodríguez-Velamazán, I. Unzueta, J. A. García, F. Plazaola, P. La Roca, J. I. Pérez-Landazábal, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2020**, *858*, 158350.
- [21] K. Bai, J.-C. Fan, P.-H. Shi, Y.-L. Min, Q.-J. Xu, *J. Power Sources* **2020**, *456*, 228003.
- [22] S. Song, L. Yu, V. G. Hadjiev, W. Zhang, D. Wang, X. Xiao, S. Chen, Q. Zhang, Z. Ren, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 32909–32916.
- [23] H. Xue, H. Zhang, S. Fricke, M. Lüther, Z. Yang, A. Meng, W. Bremser, Z. Li, *Sustain. Energ. Fuels* **2020**, *4*, 1723–1729.
- [24] K. M. Cole, S. Prabhudev, G. A. Botton, D. W. Kirk, S. J. Thorpe, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 10522–10530.
- [25] L. Zhang, C. Lu, F. Ye, Z. Wu, Y. Wang, L. Jiang, L. Zhang, C. Cheng, Z. Sun, L. Hu, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2021**, *284*, 119758.
- [26] B. Wang, L.-L. Zhou, Z.-Q. Huang, D.-S. Pan, Z.-H. Guo, J.-L. Song, *J. Power Sources* **2021**, *483*, 229196.
- [27] M. Poupon, N. Barrier, A. Pautrat, O. Perez, *J. Solid State Chem.* **2019**, *280*, 120962.

- [28] O. Shpotyuk, Z. L. Bujňáková, P. Baláž, Y. Shpotyuk, P. Demchenko, V. Balitska, *Adv. Powder Technol.* **2020**, *31*, 3610–3617.
- [29] M. Shang, P. S. Halasyamani, *J. Solid State Chem.* **2020**, *282*, 121121.
- [30] M. G. Johnston, W. T. A. Harrison, *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* **2011**, *19*, 2967– 2974.
- [31] Y. Xing, J. Ku, W. Fu, L. Wang, H. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *395*, 125149.
- [32] H. Chen, J. Wang, *J. Hazard. Mater.* **2021**, *403*, 123697.
- [33] L. Yang, H. Ren, Q. Liang, K. N. Dinh, R. Dangol, Q. Yan, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1906766.
- [34] H. F. Wang, L. Chen, H. Pang, S. Kaskel, Q. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 1414–1448.
- [35] J. Dai, D. Zhao, W. Sun, X. Zhu, L.-J. Ma, Z. Wu, C. Yang, Z. Cui, L. Li, S. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 10761–10772.
- [36] H. Zeng, M. Oubla, X. Zhong, N. Alonso-Vante, F. Du, Y. Xie, Y. Huang, J. Ma, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2021**, *281*, 119535.
- [37] B. Wang, W.-X. Lu, Z.-Q. Huang, D.-S. Pan, L.-L. Zhou, Z.-H. Guo, J.-L.
- Song, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *399*, 125799. [38] G. D. Park, J. H. Hong, J. H. Choi, J.-H. Lee, Y. S. Kim, Y. C. Kang, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1901320.
- [39] Y. Hou, M. Qiu, T. Zhang, X. D. Zhuang, C. S. Kim, C. Yuan, X. L. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*,1701589.
- [40] Y. X. Zhang, C. Zhang, Y. M. Guo, D. L. Liu, Y. F. Yu, B. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 2536–2540.
- [41] S. Anantharaj, H. Sugime, B. Chen, N. Akagi, S. Noda, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2020**, *124*, 9673–9684.
- [42] A. Muthurasu, B. Dahal, K. Chhetri, H. Y. Kim, *Inorg. Chem.* **2020**, *59*, 3817–3827.
- [43] J. J. Lee, M. Y. Oh, K. S. Nahm, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2016**, *163*, A244–A250.
- [44] J. Han, J. Zhang, T. Wang, Q. Xiong, W. Wang, L. Cao, B. Dong, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 13105–13114.
- [45] M. A. Lukowski, A. S. Daniel, F. Meng, A. Forticaux, L. Li, S. Jin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 10274–10277.
- [46] S. Pan, X. Mao, J. Yu, L. Hao, A. Du, B. Li, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2020**, *7*, 3327.
- [47] J. Liu, J. Zhou, S. Liu, G. Chen, W. Wu, Y. Li, P. Jin, C. Xu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *356*, 136827.
- [48] W. Jin, F. Liu, X. Guo, J. Zhang, L. Zheng, Y. Hu, J. Mao, H. Liu, Y. Xue, C. Tang, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2019**, *9*, 5736–5744.
- [49] H. Zhang, X. Li, A. Hähnel, V. Naumann, C. Lin, S. Azimi, S. L. Schweizer, A. W. Maijenburg, R. B. Wehrspohn, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1706847.
- [50] W.-X. Lu, B. Wang, W.-J. Chen, J.-L. Xie, Z.-Q. Huang, W. Jin, J.-L. Song, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 3083–3091.
- [51] A. Sivanantham, P. Ganesan, A. Vinu, S. Shanmugam, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 463–493.

Manuscript received: January 25, 2021 Revised manuscript received: March 20, 2021 Accepted manuscript online: March 22, 2021 Version of record online: ■■■, ■■■■

# **FULL PAPERS**

**Ball Milling Synthesis**: An amorphous monometallic cobalt-based selenite nanoparticle was obtained via a simple ball milling method for OER, exhibiting highly efficient performance owing to its unique composition and structure, especially, the transition from crystalline to amorphous could regulate its electronic structure and increase its electro-active sites, providing an efficient method to explore advanced electro-catalysts for energy storage and conversion.

*L.-L. Zhou, D.-S. Pan, Z.-H. Guo, J.-K. Li, S. Huang, Prof. J.-L. Song\**

1 – 8

**Simple Construction of Amorphous Monometallic Cobalt-Based Selenite Nanoparticles using Ball Milling for Highly Efficient Oxygen Evolution Reaction**