---
source: Chai 等 - 2022 - Efficient Catalytic Conversion of 5‐Hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5‐Furandicarboxylic Acid over Rutheni.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.544s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:33:09.760678Z
---

Check for updates

www.chemsuschem.org

# Efficient Catalytic Conversion of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural to 2,5-Furandicarboxylic Acid over Ruthenium Cluster-Embedded Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> Catalyst

Xinyu Chai<sup>+</sup>,<sup>[a]</sup> Kaiyue Jiang<sup>+</sup>,<sup>[b]</sup> Jianying Wang,<sup>[a]</sup> Zhouhong Ren,<sup>[b]</sup> Xi Liu,<sup>[b]</sup> Liwei Chen,<sup>[b]</sup> Xiaodong Zhuang,<sup>\*[b]</sup> and Tianfu Wang<sup>\*[a]</sup>

5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) can be oxidized to 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) for the production of biorenewable plastics to replace fossil resourced polyethylene terephthalate (PET). Development of a highly efficient electrocatalyst using renewable electricity as energy input is highly desired. In this work, Ru cluster-embedded Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets [Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>] were synthesized and exploited as electrochemical catalysts for the conversion of HMF to FDCA. Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> exhibited significantly improved current density (40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.41 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode) of over 7.7 times in comparison

with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, and nearly 100% conversion degree for HMF and 98.5% selectivity towards FDCA were obtained. Operando Raman experiments revealed the catalysis was facilitated by the interconversion between Ni<sup>3+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup>. Density functional theory calculations further revealed the effect of Ru clusters of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, thereby promoting HMF adsorption capacity on Ni sites to boost HMF oxidation activity. This work provides a novel strategy using Ru clusters to modify earth abundant Ni based catalyst for HMF oxidation to obtain high-value biomass-derived products.

## Introduction

Global concerns over the climate change caused by escalating carbon emission due to human activities especially through the irreversible exploitation of fossil resources call for sustainable solutions to replace current petroleum-based energy and materials production with renewables.<sup>[1]</sup> Lignocellulosic biomass, as the most abundant resource on Earth, represents a substitute for sustainably producing high value-added chemicals.<sup>[2]</sup> Several bio-products are selected as platform chemicals to meet the challenge of sustainability targets in the biorefinery industry. Among various biomass-derived chemicals, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is considered as promising starting material to replace fossil-derived products, because of the structural similarity between terephthalic acid and the oxidation product of HMF, 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA).<sup>[3]</sup> Therefore, as a biomass-derived monomer, FDCA has the

potential to produce next-generation bio-plastic for replacing fossil-derived polyethylene terephthalate (PET).<sup>[4]</sup> Although bio-based ethylene glycol (EG) has already started commercial production via the fermentation route, the large-scale production of FDCA remains a great challenge due to a variety of technical hurdles, including the lack of effective catalytic systems.<sup>[5]</sup>

The challenge of FDCA production in large scale relies on the development of highly efficient catalysts. In thermochemical processes, HMF conversion can be achieved in strict reaction conditions (30-130°C under 0.3-2.0 MPa of O<sub>2</sub>) for the production of FDCA. [6] Noble metal-based catalysts (Pt, Pd, Ru, Au, and their alloys) have been explored for HMF oxidation. For instance, Pt/C obtains 81% conversion of FDCA under 1 bar O<sub>2</sub> pressure, [7] and Pd can also facilitate HMF oxidation but obtains relatively low yield of FDCA. For improving the conversion, metal oxides are used to support the metal catalysts. [8] Ru(OH)<sub>x</sub>/ hydrotalcite was reported to catalyze HMF oxidation with 100% conversion in a neutral condition, but with relatively low yield of FDCA (48%). High yield of FDCA (99.1%) has be realized with MnCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> spinel-supported ruthenium catalyst with very limited byproduct of 5-formylfuran-2-carboxylic acid (FFCA).[9] Despite the progress of these catalytic systems for HMF oxidation, these thermochemical processes inevitably use fossil resources as energy input. However, the production of industrial chemicals in a sustainable way has been receiving increasing attention. [3c,10] Renewable electricity, including solar, wind, hydropower, and so on, could reduce the reliance on fossil fuels to drive chemical reactions.[11] Therefore, the conversion of HMF into FDCA through an electrochemical approach is promising and highly preferred.[12]

Precious metals have been adopted as electrocatalysts for HMF oxidation reactions. For instance, Pt/C was reported for

[b] K. Jiang,\* Z. Ren, Prof. X. Liu, Prof. L. Chen, Prof. X. Zhuang School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Shanghai Jiao Tong University 800 Dongchuan Rd., Shanghai 200240 (P. R. China) E-mail: zhuang@sjtu.edu.cn

[+] These authors contributed equally to this work.

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202200863

This publication is part of a collection of invited contributions focusing on "Green Conversion of HMF". Please visit chemsuschem.org/collections to view all contributions.

X. Chai, Dr. J. Wang, Prof. T. Wang
 School of Environmental Science and Engineering
 Shanghai Jiao Tong University
 Bod Dongchuan Rd., Shanghai
 200240 (P. R. China)
 E-mail: tfwang@sjtu.edu.cn

HMF conversion in an alkaline electrolyte (pH = 10), and low HMF conversion of 29% was realized at low current density (0.44 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>).<sup>[13]</sup> In addition, Au/C and Pd/C were reported, and low selectivity towards FDCA was observed. [14] Pd/C obtained 75% HMF conversion with 11% FDCA yield at 0.6 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), while Au/C catalyst obtained 100% HMF conversion with 1% FDCA yield at the same conditions. The low selectivity of these catalysts for HMF conversion was attributed to the competition reaction from water oxidation and the production of humin-type side products.[14] However, bimetallic precious metal Au/Pd can effectively increase FDCA yield compared with single-component metal catalysts, achieving 83% FDCA yield and 100% HMF conversion at 0.9 V vs. RHE. The synergistic effect of the alloy on the oxidation of HMF was found to improve the catalytic activities, increase the current density, and promote the complete oxidation of HMF.[14] Due to the resource limitation of precious metals, Earth-abundant transition metals, including nickel, cobalt, and manganese-based catalysts, were also explored and found effective for the HMF-to-FDCA conversion.[15] Grabowski et al. studied the HMF oxidation activity based on a nickel catalyst as early as 1991. [16] Recently, to improve the HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR) activity of nickel-based catalysts, several new strategies have been proposed, including adjusting the morphology of nickel-based catalysts for exposing more active sites, and improving the intrinsic activity of nickel sites. [17] For example, hierarchically porous Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub><sup>[18]</sup> was reported to achieve nearly 100% HMF conversion to FDCA without byproduct, and NiO/Ni(OH)2 and NiOOH were found to be active species of HMFOR.<sup>[19]</sup> Vertically oriented nickel nanosheet can introduce more edge-positioned  $Ni^{\delta+}$  species to improve the catalytic activity. [20] Nickel nanoparticles were also found to possess high HMFOR activity due to the exposure of Ni (101) facets. Generally, the morphology and coordination environment control of Ni can improve the catalytic performance.[21]

In this study, a ruthenium clusters-embedded Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheet catalyst is rationally synthesized to control the structural and electronic properties of Ni-based materials for further promoting the catalytic HMF oxidation. High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns demonstrated Ru clusters are uniformly loaded on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets, while X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra suggested Ru is slightly bonded with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> substrates through Ru–O–Ni interaction. The obtained Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> shows 7.7 times higher current density relative to bare Ni(OH)2 at the potential of 1.41 V vs. RHE, and complete HMF conversion can be realized with 98.5% faradaic efficiency towards FDCA. Operando Raman spectroscopy was employed to reveal Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> redox couples are active sites for HMF oxidation. In addition, computational results on the energetics of HMF adsorption on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $\Delta E$ = -0.84 eV) and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $\Delta E = -2.59 \text{ eV}$ ) have provided molecular evidence for the enhanced catalytic activities of Ru/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst.

## **Results and Discussion**

### Characterizations of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>

Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> were synthesized via one-pot hydrothermal reactions. XRD was performed to determine the crystal structure of each sample. The diffraction peaks could be distributed in hexagonal Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (PDF14-0117),<sup>[22]</sup> indicating Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is successfully synthesized, as shown in Figure 1a. But for Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, while the weak peaks located at 19.4 and 39.2° were assigned to Ni(OH)2, it is difficult to observe other diffraction peak belonging to Ni(OH)2, which suggested the destruction of the crystal structure. Meanwhile, the XRD patterns do not show the crystal diffraction peaks attributed to Ru, suggesting the formation of ultrafine Ru nano- or subnanoparticles.[23] As shown in Figure 1b, a typical two-dimensional nanosheets structure was shown by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of Ni(OH)2, [17a] meanwhile, the nanosheets show regular hexagonal structure from the TEM image of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. Figure 1c shows that some ultrafine Ru nanoparticles were deposited on the Ni(OH)2. Moreover, to explore the morphology and dispersion of Ru component on the catalyst, STEM was used. Some bright spots were observed on the surface under dark-field scanning as shown in Figure 1d, and the particle size statistics of 50 sample points in the inner image showed that the size of clusters was concentrated in the range of 1.5-2 nm. After that, the line scanning was used to determine the elemental distribution. In Figure 1e, the main element was Ni, and bright spot was considered of ruthenium element because of the heavier atom mass.<sup>[24]</sup> In high-resolution mode, the lattice fringes of dark and bright region structures have been further calculated, as shown in Figure 1f: the dark region lattice fringes were measured to 0.24 nm, corresponding to (110) facet of nickel hydroxide, [25] and the bright region lattice fringes are 0.206 nm, corresponding to (022) facet of Ru.[26] Mapping images, as shown in Figure 1g-i, reveal that ultrafine Ru clusters are densely distributed on the nickel substrate. The results show that the Ru cluster is highly dispersed in the form of clusters on the Ni(OH)2 nanosheets, but the Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets cannot maintain the hexagonal crystal structure due to the etching of Ru species.

XPS was used to further analyze the chemical states of Ru and Ni species on the catalysts. As shown in Figure 2a, it was found that Ni, O, and Ru elements were present in Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. Because of the strong effect of the C1 s signal to Ru3d, [27] Ru3p orbital between 450-492 eV was observed. As shown in Figure 2b, the high-resolution spectrum of Ru3p could be deconvoluted into signals at 465.7 and 467.2 eV, which were assigned to Ru<sup>0</sup> and Ru–O, respectively.<sup>[28]</sup> The species mainly existed in the form of Ru<sup>0</sup>, indicating the formation of metallic Ru clusters, and the remaining Ru was supposed to be embedded into the crystal lattice of Ni(OH)2, which results in the disappearing of peaks in the XRD pattern. Further information was obtained from the Ni 2p spectrum. For Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, as shown in Figure 2c, the high-resolution spectrum of Ni 2p could be deconvoluted into peaks at 855.5 and 860.5 eV, corresponding to Ni<sup>2+</sup>. Two peaks located at 873.1 and 879.1 eV

2. 16, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1092/essc.202200863 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the paplicable Cereaive Commons Licenson

Figure 1. Morphology and structural characterization of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. (a) XRD patterns. TEM images of (b) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and (c) Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. (d) STEM image (inner image: cluster size distribution), (e) liner scan results, (f) HR-STEM image, and (g-i) elemental mapping images of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, respectively.

Figure 2. (a) XPS spectra of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. High-resolution XPS spectra of (b) Ru 3p, (c) Ni 2p, and (d) O 1 s.

Chemistry Europe European Chemical Societies Publishing

are the satellite peaks; [5] the results show that the dominant chemical state of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> was Ni<sup>2+</sup>. However, for Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, the peak number increased and could be deconvoluted into six main peaks; the Ni doublets at 855.2 and 873.0 eV can be ascribed to Ni<sup>2+</sup>. The two peaks at 858.1 and 875.6 eV corresponded to Ni<sup>3+</sup>, and the peaks at 862.2 and 880.2 eV are their satellites. The formation of Ni<sup>3+</sup> species was probably attributed to the incorporation of Ru, and the Ru<sup>3+</sup> species may partly be inserted in the crystal lattice of the Ni(OH)2, and the electron transfer between Ru<sup>3+</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup> can cause Ni<sup>2+</sup> to be partially oxidized to Ni<sup>3+</sup> during this progress, which resulted in the appearance of Ni<sup>3+</sup>peaks in the XPS spectrum of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. This process might result in the deconstruction of nickel hydroxide crystal structure: the XRD results reflect that the peak belonging to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> disappeared. The presence of Ru species also caused severe disturbance to lattice oxygen, as shown in Figure 2d. For the spectrum of Ni(OH)2, the peaks of 531.1 and 533.7 eV could be assigned to lattice oxygen corresponding to Ni-O and bound water. For the spectrum of Ru/Ni(OH)2, the O1 s spectrum could be deconvoluted to three peaks of 530.9, 532.0, and 533.7 eV. Two peaks at 530.9 and 533.7 eV could be assigned to Ni-O and bound water, and the weak peak located at 532.0 eV can be attributed to Ru-O-Ni. These results indicate that Ru is slightly bonded with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> substrates through Ru-O-Ni, and most of them exist in the Ru cluster; these results are consistent with the STEM results shown above. At the same time, compared with the Ni(OH)2, the presence of Ru induced the Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to produce more high-valence nickel species, which is conducive to HMF electrooxidation reaction.

#### Electrochemical oxidation of HMF

The electrochemical measurements of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> were evaluated in a 1.0 m KOH solution with 5 mm HMF as substrate. As shown in Figure 3a, to evaluate the electrochemical activity of Ni(OH)2 and Ru/Ni(OH)2 for HMFOR, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were measured in 5 mm HMF solution. Compared with Ni(OH)2 and nickel foam (Figure S1), Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> showed a current density of 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.36 V vs. RHE, which is about 310 mV lower than that of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, indicating that the Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> can produce a larger catalytic current than Ni(OH)2 at the same concentration of HMF. As shown in Figure S2, it can be seen that a current density of 40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> can be obtained for the water-splitting reaction at a potential of 1.69 V vs. RHE in the alkaline solution without HMF addition, while in the 5 mm HMF solution, a current density of 40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>can be achieved with Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 1.41 V vs. RHE, about 280 mV lower than that of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), indicating that the catalytic current obtained by Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in the electrolyte containing HMF derived from the oxidation of HMF. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 3b, the Tafel slope was calculated to evaluate the electron transfer rate, and the results show that the Tafel slope of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> for the HMFOR is 35 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is much

Figure 3. (a) LSV curves of Ni(OH), and Ru/Ni(OH), for HMFOR. (b) Tafel curves. (c) Nyquist plots of Ni(OH), and Ru/Ni(OH), for HMFOR at 1.45 V. (d) CV with scan rates from 5 to 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and the  $C_{\rm dl}$  values Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

Chemistry Europe

European Chemical Societies Publishing

lower than that of  $Ni(OH)_2$  (81 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting higher intrinsic activity of  $Ru/Ni(OH)_2$ . The electrochemical impedance test (Figure 3c) exhibits a lower charge transfer resistance of  $Ru/Ni(OH)_2$  than that of  $Ni(OH)_2$ , and thus the effect of Ru on the intrinsic activity of  $Ni(OH)_2$  was further proved. Furthermore, the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{cl}$ ) of two catalysts was measured by cyclic voltammetry (CV) at 5–50 mV scan rates, as shown in Figure 3d and Figure S1. The  $C_{cl}$  of  $Ru/Ni(OH)_2$  was calculated at 8.7 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is higher than that of  $Ni(OH)_2$  (4.5 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating the abundant electrochemically active surface area for HMFOR.

#### Performance of electrodes for FDCA production from HMF

The electrochemical catalytic property of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst for HMFOR was further evaluated. All the experiments were performed at 1.0 m KOH solution with 5 mm HMF in a three-electrode system. As shown in Figure 4a, at 1.35 V vs. RHE, nearly 100% conversion of HMF at Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> was obtained with 98.5% yield of FDCA; the faradaic efficiency was calculated to be 98.5%. With the increase of voltage, the HMF conversion rate and the faradaic efficiency towards FDCA gradually decline. When the voltage was further increased to 1.6 V, the faradaic efficiency of FDCA dropped to about 64%. The decrease of faradaic efficiency was caused by the competition between HMFOR and OER at high voltage, which is consistent with the

results of LSV. Furthermore, for detailed investigation of HMFOR on Ru/Ni(OH)2, evolution process of reactant (HMF), target product (FDCA), and the intermediates with increasing amount of charge (from 0 to 28.7C, every 5C) was plotted. Highperformance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used to detect HMF, FDCA, and the intermediates, including 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA), FFCA, and 5-diformylfuran (DFF), shown in Figure 4b. At the beginning of electrolysis, HMF was immediately partially oxidized in the alkaline solution, but this process was very slow compared with electrooxidation process. Several weak peaks attributed to intermediates (FFCA, DFF, and HMFCA) and product FDCA were observed by HPLC. With the progress of electrocatalysis, the peak of HMF decreased and the peak of FDCA increased with the increase of charge transfer number. When the charge transfer reached 28.7 C, the HMF peak disappeared and the FDCA peak plateaued, indicating that HMF was successfully oxidized and converted to FDCA. Meanwhile, it was observed that HMFCA was the main intermediate, while DFF was hardly observed, indicating that the transformation of HMF on Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> proceeds dominantly through the HMFCA pathway. After the complete oxidation of HMF, the peaks of HMFCA, FFCA, and DFF disappeared, indicating that the intermediates were also completely oxidized. The conversion of HMF and faradaic efficiency of FDCA of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 1.45 V are shown in Figure 5c. Results show that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> achieved 83.5% yield of FDCA, which is far low than that of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. At last,

Figure 4. Electrooxidation performance of catalysts in 1.0 M KOH with 5 mm HMF. (a) Corresponding HMF conversion, faradaic efficiency, and FDCA yield at different electrolysis potentials of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. (b) HPLC chromatograms of the diluted electrolyte obtained in the HMFOR process catalyzed by Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 1.45 V with different amounts of charge passed. (c) Corresponding HMF conversion, faradaic efficiency, and FDCA yield of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 1.45 V, respectively. (d) Stability performance for six electrolysis cycles.

2. 16. Downonded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinebtary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cscs.202200863 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/206]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinebtary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Cereative Commons. Licenses

Figure 5. Operando Raman spectra. (a) A custom-built reaction cell was employed. Ni<sup>III</sup>OOH species formed (b) in 1.0 m KOH with no HMF beginning at 0.35 V vs. Hg/HgO, (c) 5 mm HMF at 0.4 V vs. Hg/HgO, and (d) 1.0 m HMF at 0.4 V vs. Hg/HgO. The peaks of Ni<sup>III</sup>OOH species disappeared.

the stability of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> for HMF oxidation was also investigated under the same conditions. As shown in Figure 5c, with the increase of charge passed, the catalytic current reduced with the consumption of HMF. After six catalytic cycles, as shown in Figure 5e and Figure S5, Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> still possesses a good performance for HMF-to-FDCA conversion. It is noteworthy that XRD (Figure S6) and XPS (Figure S7) of the electrode were tested after the surface of the electrode was cleaned after the cyclic reaction. It was found that the crystal structure and Ru—O—Ni of the catalyst could be maintained completely.

## Kinetic analysis using in-situ Raman spectroscopy

To determine the catalytically active species in HMFOR, the reaction of HMF on Ru/Ni(OH)2 was explored using a selfassembled in-situ Raman device (as shown in Figure 5a). Two Ni-related peaks appeared at 463 and 564 cm<sup>-1</sup> starting from 0.35 V vs. Hg/HgO without HMF. The intensity of these two peaks increased with voltage, and these two peaks could be attributed to the presence of nickel trivalent species. [29] Compared with Figure 5a, these two peaks in 5 mm HMF disappeared at 0.35 V vs. Hg/HgO, indicating that the addition of HMF has an inhibitory effect on the formation of Ni<sup>3+</sup>, and Ni<sup>3+</sup> is reduced to Ni<sup>2+</sup> after the addition of HMF, while HMF is oxidized. As the voltage further increased to 0.4 V vs. Hg/HgO, the peak of Ni<sup>3+</sup> appeared again, then increased with the increase of voltage. However, the peak strength is lower than that in the solution without HMF, indicating that 5 mm HMF concentration is insufficient to completely consume Ni<sup>3+</sup> species. To further test this hypothesis, 1.0 m HMF solution was examined, and it was found that the peak attributed to Ni<sup>3+</sup> species disappeared, as shown in Figure 5d. Overall, when a voltage of 0.35 V vs. Hg/HgO was applied, the nickel species in the catalyst were oxidized to Ni<sup>3+</sup>, so the abundant Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> redox couple are active sites of HMF oxidation. In the absence of HMF, the Ni<sup>3+</sup> species were oxidized until water oxidation occurred. In the presence of HMF, the oxidation reaction of HMF is correlated with the consumption of Ni<sup>3+</sup> species.

The adsorption of the HMF on the catalyst is one of the key steps in HMFOR catalytic process. To further explore the adsorption behavior of HMF molecules on the catalysts and understand the effect of Ru nanoclusters on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface during the reaction course, these two catalysts were modeled. As shown in Figure 6, the results show that the adsorption energy of HMF on the two catalyst structures is greatly different, and the binding energy on Ru nanocluster ( $\Delta E = -2.59 \text{ eV}$ ) is much lower than that on pure Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $\Delta E = -0.84 \text{ eV}$ ), indicating that the adsorption of HMF is more favorable on the Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, thus providing higher activity for HMFOR.

In particular, we tried to determine the priority of which functional groups of the HMF molecule contributed to the adsorption process. As reported previously, [30] two oxidation pathways (as shown in Figure 6a) started with alcoholic hydroxy or aldehyde group, respectively. In this work, we modeled two conditions that HMF molecule adsorbed on the catalyst with different functional groups (alcoholic hydroxy or aldehyde). The obtained optimization model is shown in Figure 6. For Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Figure 6b, c represents the proximity of alcohol hydroxy and aldehyde groups, respectively. Modeling results revealed that no matter which side groups were close to the surface, the final optimization results with both ends at the end of the catalyst surface adsorption at the same time, and the binding energy of each group was calculated to -0.87 and -0.84 eV, respectively. The difference is not greatly different, and this may explain that the reaction kinetics for both pathways on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> showed no obvious preference.

Computational modeling was also carried out for HMF over Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst. HMF molecules were vertically placed at

2. 16, Dowloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelblary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002csc2c12200863 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenses

Figure 6. Adsorption behavior of HMF molecule on catalysts. (a) Two possible pathways for HMFOR. Top view and side view of optimized model structure, and corresponding adsorption energies of HMF with two orientations (alcohol hydroxy and aldehyde groups) on (b, c) Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and (d, e) Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>.

the same position on the surface of the catalyst with different end groups (alcohol hydroxy group and aldehyde group, as shown in Figure 6d, e). The optimized results demonstrated that the final optimization results still tend to be end-group adsorption on the surface of the catalyst while the alcoholic group was perpendicular to the surface of the catalyst. However, with the aldehyde being vertically aligned on the surface of the catalyst, the results showed that the aldehyde group can strongly interact with the catalyst. As such, the resultant binding energies are very low, and the aldehyde group adsorption on the catalyst is favorable. This may suggest that on the surface of Ru-cluster embedded catalyst, the catalyst surface is more inclined to adsorb the aldehyde group first, followed by rapid dehydrogenation to obtain the intermediate HMFCA. This hypothesis is consistent with the HPLC measurements, and the DFF intermediate detected by HPLC only in trace amounts. Overall, the modeling results indicated that the presence of Ru cluster on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst could greatly improve the HMF adsorption with an aldehyde end bound to the surface and vertically aligned with the skeleton of HMF, promoting the HMF oxidation activities.

### **Conclusions**

Nickel hydroxide nanosheets were grown in situ on nickel foam by the hydrothermal method, and Ru clusters were successfully introduced on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst. Ru clusters are uniformly dispersed on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets and slightly bonded with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> substrates through Ru–O–Ni interaction. Ru clusters were effective to adjust the structural and electronic structure of nickel hydroxide nanosheets, inducing the generation of abundant high-valence nickel sites, and improving the activity

of electrooxidation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2,5furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA). The obtained Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> shows 7.7 times higher current density relative to bare Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at the same potential of 1.41 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), and complete HMF conversion can be realized with 98.5 % FDCA faradaic efficiency. Operando Raman spectroscopy was employed to reveal the abundant Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup> redox couple are active sites for HMF oxidation. In addition, computational results on the energetics of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $\Delta E = -0.84$  eV) and Ru/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> ( $\Delta E = -2.59$  eV) and HMF interaction have shown the adsorption of HMF molecule is more favorable on the Ru/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. The use of in-situ Raman spectroscopy in conjugation with computational methods provides insights on the improvement of Ni electrocatalyst by Ru cluster and can facilitate future design of reaction/catalyst systems for biomass conversion reactions.

## **Experimental Section**

## Synthesis of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>

Typically, four pieces of NF (10.0 mm $\times$ 10.0 mm $\times$ 30.0 mm) were transferred into a 100 mL hydrothermal Teflon reactor, and 5 mmol Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 5 mmol CO(NH<sub>2</sub>)<sub>2</sub>, and 60 mL deionized water were also transferred into the reactor. After heating, the reactor was kept 150 °C for 12 h and then naturally cooled down to room temperature. The obtained NF pieces were washed by deionized water for three times.

## Synthesis of Ru/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>

The obtained NF with Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> was carefully dried and then transferred into a 100 mL hydrothermal reactor. 5 mmol RuCl<sub>3</sub>·xH<sub>2</sub>O,

5 mmol  $CO(NH_2)_2$ , and 60 mL deionized water were also transferred into the reactor. After heating, the reactor was kept 150 °C for 12 h and then naturally cooled down to room temperature. The obtained NF pieces were washed by deionized water for three times.

#### Characterizations

TEM images, high-resolution (HR)TEM images, and aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images were obtained using Shimadzu G2 F20 S-Twin. The catalysts were carefully scraped off NF and then immersed into ethanol by ultrasonication treatment. XRD patterns were obtained by Shimadzu XRD-6100 diffractometer with the scanning rate of 2° min $^{-1}$  in 2 $\theta$ . XPS spectra were measured by a Kratos Axis Ultra DLD XPS with Mg K $_{\alpha}$  radiation.

The electrochemical measurements, products analysis, and theoretical calculations are supplied in the Supporting Information.

# Acknowledgements

We are grateful for financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (award No. 42171268 and No. U21A20320).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

**Keywords:** 5-hydroxymethylfurfural · electrochemical oxidation · nickel hydroxide · operando Raman spectroscopy · ruthenium

- a) F. Yang, S. Ding, H. Song, N. Yan, Sci. China Mater. 2020, 63, 982–992;
   b) F. Yang, J. Tang, R. Ou, Z. Guo, S. Gao, Y. Wang, X. Wang, L. Chen, A. Yuan, Appl. Catal. B 2019, 256: 117786;
   c) J. Xiong, Z. Li, P. Zhang, Q. Yu, K. Li, Y. Zhang, Z. Zhao, J. Liu, J. Li, Y. Wei, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2021, 32, 1447–1450.
- [2] a) H. Luo, J. Barrio, N. Sunny, A. Li, L. Steier, N. Shah, I.E. L. Stephens, M. M. Titirici, Adv. Energy Mater. 2021, 11, 2101180; b) C. Senthil, C. W. Lee, Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 2021, 137; c) X. Dong, X. Wang, H. Song, Y. Zhang, A. Yuan, Z. Guo, Q. Wang, F. Yang, ChemSusChem 2022, 15, e202200076.
- [3] a) W. R. Birmingham, A. Toftgaard Pedersen, M. Dias Gomes, M. Bo-je Madsen, M. Breuer, J. M. Woodley, N. J. Turner, *Nat. Commun.* 2021, 12(1), 1–10; b) K. I. Galkin, V. P. Ananikov, *ChemSusChem* 2019, 12, 2976–2982; c) I. Delidovich, P. J. Hausoul, L. Deng, R. Pfutzenreuter, M. Rose, R. Palkovits, *Chem. Rev.* 2016, 116, 1540–1599.
- [4] a) S. K. Burgess, J. E. Leisen, B. E. Kraftschik, C. R. Mubarak, R. M. Kriegel, W. J. Koros, *Macromolecules* 2014, 47, 1383–1391; b) J. Wang, X. Li, M. Wang, T. Zhang, X. Chai, J. Lu, T. Wang, Y. Zhao, D. Ma, ACS Catal. 2022, 12, 6722–6728; c) J. Wang, X. Li, T. Zhang, Y. Chen, T. Wang, Y. Zhao, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2022, 13, 622–627.
- [5] L. Gouda, L. Sévery, T. Moehl, E. Mas-Marzá, P. Adams, F. Fabregat-Santiago, S. D. Tilley, Green Chem. 2021, 23, 8061–8068.

- [6] a) S. E. Davis, L. R. Houk, E. C. Tamargo, A. K. Datye, R. J. Davis, Catal. Today 2011, 160, 55–60; b) Z. Zhang, K. Deng, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 6529–6544.
- [7] K. R. Vuyyuru, P. Strasser, Catal. Today 2012, 195, 144–154.
- [8] a) B. Siyo, M. Schneider, J. Radnik, M.-M. Pohl, P. Langer, N. Steinfeldt, Appl. Catal. A 2014, 478, 107–116; b) J. Zhang, F. Lin, L. Yang, H. Dong, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2020, 31, 2512–2515.
- [9] D. K. Mishra, H. J. Lee, J. Kim, H.-S. Lee, J. K. Cho, Y.-W. Suh, Y. Yi, Y. J. Kim, Green Chem. 2017, 19, 1619–1623.
- [10] a) Z. Zhao, G. Gao, Y. Xi, J. Wang, P. Sun, Q. Liu, W. Yan, Y. Cui, Z. Jiang, F. Li, Chem 2022, 8(4): 1034-1049; b) L. Pastor-Pérez, W. Jin, J. J. Villora-Picó, Q. Wan, M. M. Pastor-Blas, A. Sepúlveda-Escribano, T. R. Reina, J. Energy Chem. 2021, 58, 377–385.
- [11] a) S. K. D. Cevasco, A. J. Kolios, Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev. 2021, 136, 110414; b) Y. Wang, M. I. Dar, L. K. Ono, T. Zhang, M. Kan, Y. Li, L. Zhang, X. Wang, Y. Yang, X. Gao, Y. Qi, M. Grätzel, Y. Zhao, Science 2019, 365(6453), 591–595.
- [12] J. J. Bozell, G. R. Petersen, Green Chem. 2010, 12, 525-728.
- [13] R. Latsuzbaia, R. Bisselink, A. Anastasopol, H. van der Meer, R. van Heck, M. S. Yagüe, M. Zijlstra, M. Roelands, M. Crockatt, E. Goetheer, E. Giling, J. Appl. Electrochem. 2018, 48, 611–626.
- [14] D. J. Chadderdon, L. Xin, J. Qi, Y. Qiu, P. Krishna, K. L. More, W. Li, Green Chem. 2014, 16, 3778–3786.
- [15] a) B. J. Taitt, D.-H. Nam, K.-S. Choi, ACS Catal. 2018, 9, 660–670; b) M. Cai,
  S. Ding, B. Gibbons, X. Yang, M. C. Kessinger, A. J. Morris, Chem. Commun. 2020, 56, 14361–14364; c) X. Song, X. Liu, H. Wang, Y. Guo, Y. Wang, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2020, 59, 17348–17356; d) X. Yan, D. Yue, C. Guo, S. Wang, X. Qian, Y. Zhao, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2020, 31, 1535–1539.
- [16] G. Grabowski, J. Lewkowski, R. Skowroński, Electrochim. Acta 1991, 36, 1995.
- [17] a) Y. Ge, P. Dong, S. R. Craig, P. M. Ajayan, M. Ye, J. Shen, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1800484; b) X. Kong, Y. Zhu, H. Zheng, X. Li, Y. Zhu, Y.-W. Li, ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 5914–5920; c) L. Gao, Y. Bao, S. Gan, Z. Sun, Z. Song, D. Han, F. Li, L. Niu, ChemSusChem 2018, 11, 2547–2553; d) J. Gu, Y. Xu, Q. Li, H. Pang, Chin. Chem. Lett. 2021, 32, 2017–2020.
- [18] B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. Sun, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 13639– 13646.
- [19] X. Lu, K. H. Wu, B. Zhang, J. Chen, F. Li, B. J. Su, P. Yan, J. M. Chen, W. Qi, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 14528–14535.
- [20] A. R. Poerwoprajitno, L. Gloag, J. Watt, S. Cychy, S. Cheong, P. V. Kumar, T. M. Benedetti, C. Deng, K. H. Wu, C. E. Marjo, D. L. Huber, M. Muhler, J. J. Gooding, W. Schuhmann, D. W. Wang, R. D. Tilley, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* 2020, *59*, 15487–15491; *Angew. Chem.* 2020, *132*, 15615–15620.
- [21] a) Y. Meng, H. Li, S. Yang, ChemSusChem 2022, 15, e202102581; b) I. Sirés, E. Brillas, Curr. Opin. Electrochem. 2021, 27, 100686.
- [22] J. Hao, J. Liu, D. Wu, M. Chen, Y. Liang, Q. Wang, L. Wang, X.-Z. Fu, J.-L. Luo, Appl. Catal. B 2021, 281, 119510.
- [23] H. Tao, C. Choi, L.-X. Ding, Z. Jiang, Z. Han, M. Jia, Q. Fan, Y. Gao, H. Wang, A. W. Robertson, S. Hong, Y. Jung, S. Liu, Z. Sun, Chem 2019, 5, 204–214.
- [24] a) J. H. Kwak, L. Kovarik, J. Szanyi, ACS Catal. 2013, 3, 2449–2455; b) Y. Zhang, J. Li, J. Cai, L. Yang, T. Zhang, J. Lin, X. Wang, C. Chen, L. Zheng, C.-T. Au, B. Yang, L. Jiang, ACS Catal. 2021, 11, 4430–4440.
- [25] N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2019, 58, 15895–15903; Angew. Chem. 2019, 131, 16042–16050.
- [26] L. Zhu, M. Cao, L. Li, H. Sun, Y. Tang, N. Zhang, J. Zheng, H. Zhou, Y. Li, L. Yang, C.-J. Zhong, B. H. Chen, ChemCatChem 2014, 6, 2039–2046.
- [27] G. Chen, T. Wang, J. Zhang, P. Liu, H. Sun, X. Zhuang, M. Chen, X. Feng, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30(10): 1706279.
- [28] H. Hu, F. M. D. Kazim, Q. Zhang, K. Qu, Z. Yang, W. Cai, ChemCatChem 2019, 11, 4327–4333.
- [29] N. Heidary, N. Kornienko, Chem. Sci. 2020, 11, 1798–1806.
- [30] a) S. Barwe, J. Weidner, S. Cychy, D. M. Morales, S. Dieckhofer, D. Hiltrop,
   J. Masa, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2018, 57,
   11460–11464; Angew. Chem. 2018, 130, 11631–11636; b) A. C. Cardiel,
   B. J. Taitt, K.-S. Choi, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2019, 7, 11138–11149.

Manuscript received: May 3, 2022 Revised manuscript received: June 14, 2022 Accepted manuscript online: June 18, 2022 Version of record online: July 6, 2022