---
source: Chen 等 - 2025 - Spontaneous Corrosion Induced Scalable Fabrication of Bayberry‐Like Ni@Ni3 S2.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 76.192s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:34:43.580732Z
---

# **Spontaneous Corrosion Induced Scalable Fabrication of Bayberry-Like Ni@Ni3S2 Core–Shell Catalysts for 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Oxidation**

*Ye Chen, Jiayao Qiu, Shilong Li, Jingru Zhang, Yi Liu, Xin Chen,\* Xupo Liu,\* Shixue Dou, and Deli Wang\**

**Electrocatalytic oxidation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) presents a promising pathway for synthesizing the value-added chemical, 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA). However, it is still lack of scalable strategies to fabricate electrocatalysts with high activity and selectivity. Herein, a bayberry-like Ni@Ni3S2 core–shell catalyst is prepared via a spontaneous corrosion strategy for HMF electro-oxidation. The Ni3S2 shells with abundant electron-deficient Ni sites facilitate the generation of high-valence Ni3<sup>+</sup>OOH active species. Additionally, the in situ oxidation of S2<sup>−</sup> to SO4 2− enhances the electron and proton transport capacity. Both high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and density functional theory (DFT) analyses reveal that Ni@Ni3S2 preferentially selects the 2,5-dicarboxyfurylfuran (DFF) pathway due to the lower reaction energy barrier from HMF to DFF, and the rate-determining step of DFF oxidation to generate 5-formylfuran-2-carboxylic acid (FFCA) is significantly accelerated. Consequently, the yield of FDCA and Faraday efficiency are found to be 99.20% and 99.35%, respectively, and they still reach 88.79% and 90.33% after ten cycles, showing excellent stability. Moreover, a mass production of 13.97 g Ni@Ni3S2 is successfully synthesized using the spontaneous corrosion strategy. This work offers a valuable reference for designing scalable and high-performance catalysts by manipulating reaction routes to achieve efficient biomass conversion.**

Y. Chen, J. Qiu, S. Li, J. Zhang, X. Liu

Henan Engineering Research Center of Design and Recycle for Advanced Electrochemical Energy Storage Materials

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Henan Normal University

Xinxiang, Henan 453007, P. R. China

E-mail: [liuxupo@htu.edu.cn](mailto:liuxupo@htu.edu.cn)

Y. Liu, D. Wang

Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage

Ministry of Education

Hubei Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry and Service Failure

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering

Huazhong University of Science and Technology

Wuhan 430074, P. R. China

E-mail: [wangdl81125@hust.edu.cn](mailto:wangdl81125@hust.edu.cn)

X. Chen, S. Dou

Institute of Energy Materials Science

University of Shanghai for Science and Technology

Shanghai 200093, P. R. China E-mail: [chenxin@usst.edu.cn](mailto:chenxin@usst.edu.cn)

> The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202414587>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202414587**

## **1. Introduction**

The valorization of biomass into valueadded chemicals is pivotal for the sustainable evolution of our society.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) 5- Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), a biomassderived molecule from monosaccharides such as glucose or fructose, is acclaimed as a cornerstone platform compound in the industrial filed. Its oxidation product, 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), serves as a biobased progenitor for the production of high-performance bioplastics, with the potential to supplant petrochemical derivatives.[\[2\]](#page-8-0) Nevertheless, the typical oxidative transformation from HMF to FDCA necessitates noble metal catalysts and is contingent upon stringent conditions of high temperature and high pressure.[\[3\]](#page-8-0) In contrast, the electrochemical method proffers a more governable and eco-friendly alternative, and thus the electrochemical oxidation of HMF attracts extensive research and attention.[\[4\]](#page-8-0) However, the HMF oxidation performance is seriously limited by the development of highperformance electrocatalytic materials.

In particular, Ni-based catalysts have been identified as having immense potential for the electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF.[\[5\]](#page-8-0) Investigations have deduced that Ni(OH)2 intermediates within Ni-based catalysts facilitate the indirect oxidation of HMF via a proton-coupled electron transfer mechanism, with NiOOH being the veritable active agent for the oxidative process.[\[6\]](#page-8-0) Therefore, it is crucial to modify the surface layer of Ni-based catalysts to ensure the preferential generation of NiOOH. Among the various Ni-based catalysts, Ni3S2 is considered as an essential nickelbased catalyst due to its reconstruction in the HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR), which exposes more nickel sites and accelerates the electron transfer process, thus significantly promoting the generation of NiOOH.[\[7\]](#page-8-0) For instance, the research by Liu and colleagues led to the development of interlinked lamellar structured NiSx/-Ni(OH)2 catalysts, where the presence of NiSx optimized the adsorption energy of HMF and efficiently captured protons and electrons in HMFOR.[\[8\]](#page-8-0) Similarly, the study by Xu and co-workers confirmed that the local coordination environment modulation of the Ni site in Ni3S2 improved the adsorption kinetics of the intermediates.[\[9\]](#page-8-0) While these investigations

16163928, 2025, 5, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adff.20244587 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for less of use; O A articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons in [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; O A articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons in [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; O A articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons in [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; O A articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons in [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; O A articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons in [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library in [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on [05.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. a) Schematic illustration of synthesizing the Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$  core–shell catalysts through a spontaneous corrosion strategy. b,c) SEM images of Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$ . d) TEM image of Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$ . e) HRTEM image of Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$ . f) STEM image and g–i) the corresponding elemental mapping images of Ni, S elements in Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$ .

have elegantly elucidated the mechanism and catalytic prowess of  $\mathrm{Ni}_3\mathrm{S}_2$  materials in HMF electro-oxidation, factors like high cost and cumbersome preparation procedures have hindered their mass-production capabilities. Moreover, the pathway prioritization and reaction rates of key steps in the HMFOR process by  $\mathrm{Ni}_3\mathrm{S}_2$  are not sufficiently clear and need to be further explored.

To address these issues, this thesis synthesized a bayberry-like Ni@Ni\_3S\_2 core—shell catalyst and elucidated the pathway selection in the HMFOR process. The experimental results demonstrate that the surface reconstruction of Ni\_3S\_2, which is represented by the oxidation of S^2- to SO\_4^2-, not only produces a significant amount of Ni^3+ active sites, but also improves the electron and proton transport rates. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses confirm that Ni\_3S\_2 shells show a more preferential selectivity to the 2,5-dicarboxyfurylfuran (DFF) pathway, and the rate of oxidizing DFF is much higher than that of 5-

hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA). The Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$  is also prepared with a high yield of 13.97 g. This study not only reveals the HMF oxidation mechanism of the Ni $_3$ S $_2$  active shells, but also proposes a promising strategy for the mass production of electrocatalysts favorable for converting HMF into FDCA.

## 2. Results and Discussion

## 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> Core–Shell Catalysts

A spontaneous corrosion strategy is employed to synthesize the Ni@Ni $_3S_2$  core—shell catalysts, as illustrated in **Figure 1a**. Actually, the pristine Ni powders were submerged in a 40 mm Na $_2S$  solution for 24 h to complete the corrosion reconstruction. To verify the formation of Ni $_3S_2$  active shells, both Ni powders and Ni@Ni $_3S_2$  samples were analyzed by X-ray diffraction

ADVANCED SCIENCE NEWS

(XRD) spectroscopy. As displayed in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), unlike the Ni powders, Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> exhibits additional diffraction peaks at 31.104°, 38.271°, 49.733°, and 55.161°, corresponding to the (110), (021), (113), and (122) crystal planes of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> (JCPDS No. 44–1488), revealing the successful preparation of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> phase.<sup>[10]</sup> The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image in Figure S2a (Supporting Information) reveals the spherical morphology of Ni powders with a smooth surface. After soaking the Ni powders in ultrapure water for 24 h, no obvious change is observed (Figure S2b, Supporting Information). However, it is noteworthy that the originally smooth surface of Ni powders is covered by uniform spike-like protrusions after the corrosion in Na<sub>2</sub>S solution (Figure 1b,c; Figure S3a,b, Supporting Information), just like the shape of a "bayberry". These layers with spike-like protrusions are ascribed to the formed Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> phase in the spontaneous corrosion process. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images were also performed to confirm the structure of the Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst. It can be seen that Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> consists of dark and light parts (Figure 1d; Figure S4a,b, Supporting Information). Figure 1e shows the clear lattice streaks in the light parts, and the spacings of these lattice fringes are 0.184 and 0.287 nm, which correspond to the (113) and (110) crystal planes of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, respectively, further confirming the existence of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> shells.<sup>[11]</sup> The STEM images accompanied by EDS analysis (Figure 1f-i) indicate that the Ni elements are dominant throughout the nanospheres, while the S elements are mainly dispersed in the outer contours of nanospheres, proving the coexistence of Ni core and Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> shell. The above results reveal that the assynthesized catalyst displays a special bayberry-like Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> core-shell structure.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra were used to confirm the chemical structure and surface valence of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>. Figure \$5 (Supporting Information) exhibits the co-existence of S, Ni, and O elements on Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>. For the S element, the characteristic peaks of S  $2p_{1/2}$  and S  $2p_{3/2}$  appear at 163.3 and 162.0 eV, respectively (Figure S6a, Supporting Information). Moreover, the broad peak at 167.0 eV represents the formation of SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>, which is probably attributed to the oxidation of part of S<sup>2-</sup> in the air.<sup>[12]</sup> Figure S6b (Supporting Information) demonstrates the Ni 2p spectra of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and Ni@NiO, which consist of characteristic peaks of Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> and shakeup satellites.<sup>[13]</sup> Notably, compared to Ni@NiO, the Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and Ni 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> shift to the high binding energy direction by 0.95 and 1.33 eV, respectively, which is due to the fact that the electronic structure of Ni is optimized in the presence of S elements.<sup>[14]</sup> Generally, the electron-deficient Ni sites are favorable for the generation of Ni<sup>3+</sup> active phases for HMFOR.<sup>[15]</sup> In comparison with the O 1s spectra of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, Ni@NiO reveals an extra peak at 529.5 eV representing NiO material, which is not detected for Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> because of the full sulfidation (Figure S6c, Supporting Information).[16] Notably, the peak of the Ni-O bond of Ni@Ni3S2 is shifted by 0.30 eV toward a lower binding energy, suggesting that the addition of S distorts the original lattice, causing the electrons to be more readily removed from the Ni atoms.[17] In conclusion, the XPS results highlight that the production of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> is followed by the formation of abundant electron-deficient Ni sites.

Combined with the above analysis, we have inferred the growth process of Ni@NiO and Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>. For Ni@NiO, the sur-

face is oxidized by  $O_2$  in high purity water to form NiO phases  $(2Ni + O_2 \rightarrow 2NiO)$ . With respect to Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, Ni<sup>0</sup> on the surface layer of Ni powders is first oxidized to Ni<sup>2+</sup> by the  $O_2$  during the immersion process (Equation 1), while  $O_2$  dissolved in the solution gains electrons to generate OH<sup>-</sup> (Equation 2). Then, Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions react with S<sup>2-</sup> to produce NiS (Equation 3), and subsequently NiS further reacts with S<sup>2-</sup> to form a more structurally stable bayberry-like Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> shells (Equation 4). <sup>[19]</sup> The reaction process can be represented by the following Equations 1–4:

$$Ni \rightarrow Ni^{2+} + 2^{e-}$$
 (1)

$$O_2 + H_2O + e^- \to OH^-$$
 (2)

$$Ni^{2+} + S^{2-} \rightarrow NiS \tag{3}$$

$$NiS + Ni^{2+} + S^{2-} \rightarrow Ni_3S_2$$
 (4)

#### 2.2. Electrocatalytic Performances

A three-electrode configuration was implemented to examine the electrocatalytic performances of catalysts. Generally, the changes of open circuit potential (OCP) reflect the HMF adsorption ability on the catalyst surface. [20] As elucidated in Figure 2a, Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> exhibits an OCP reduction of 0.31 V upon the introduction of 10 mм HMF. It is about twice the value observed for Ni@NiO (0.15 V), revealing that the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> shell possesses an exceptional affinity for HMF adsorption. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves in Figure 2b unveil that the HMFOR activity of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> significantly outperforms that of Ni@NiO and Ni powders. As shown in Figure 2c and Table S1 (Supporting Information), the Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> catalyst exhibits the lower onset potential of 1.32 V and higher current density of 50.3 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.45 V, outperforming those of Ni@NiO (1.35 V, 9.58 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Ni powders (1.37 V, 7.49 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and other reported catalysts. Notably, the current density of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> at 1.45 V exceeds that of the Ni@NiO by over fivefold. The Tafel slopes were calculated according to the LSV curves, as depicted in Figure S7 (Supporting Information). The Tafel slope of 86 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> is quite lower than those of Ni@NiO (233 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Ni powders (217 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), further suggesting that Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> possesses a fast reaction kinetic. In addition, the HMFOR performance of Ni@Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> is greatly affected by the spontaneous corrosion time, and the corrosion time of 12 h is more beneficial for achieving the optimized HMFOR activity (Figure S8, Supporting Information).

In order to gain a deeper understanding of HMF oxidation on Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$  catalyst, we performed 60 cyclic voltammetry (CV) sweeps in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte (Figure 2d). Starting from the first cycle, the peak current density of the CV curves continuously to increase throughout the 60 cycles, indicating the surface activation of Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$ . More importantly, the oxidation peak of S $^{2-}$  to produce SO $_4$  $^{2-}$  at 1.38 V is indicative of a reconfiguration phenomenon on the catalyst surface. $^{[21]}$  A series of morphological and structural characterization were supplied to prove the surface reconstruction phenomenon of Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$ , which underwent an i-t test for HMFOR at 1.45 V. Figure S9 (Supporting Information) shows the SEM images of Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$  after the reconstruction. The original Ni@Ni $_3$ S $_2$  exhibits a bayberry-like appearance (Figure 1c), whereas many nanosheets are formed on

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) OCP curves of Ni@Ni3S2 and Ni@NiO in 1.0 m KOH solution and 1.0 m KOH + 10 mm HMF solution. b) LSV curves of Ni@Ni3S2, Ni@NiO and Ni powders for HMFOR. c) Comparison of onset potential and current density at 1.45 V. d) 60-circle CV curves of Ni@Ni3S2 in 1.0 m KOH solution. e) Raman spectra of Ni@Ni3S2 in 1.0 m KOH solution at varying voltages. f) Comparative impedance curves of Ni@Ni3S2 and Ni@NiO before and after the reconstruction (inset indicates the surface reconstruction of Ni@Ni3S2). The pH-dependent LSV curves of g) Ni@Ni3S2 and h) Ni@NiO, the inset indicates the dependence on pH at 1.58 V. i) The effect of Na2S concentration on the onset potential and current density magnitude of the catalysts at 1.45 V.

the nanosphere surface (Figure S9a,b, Supporting Information) after the surface reconstruction. Besides, TEM images in Figure S10a,b (Supporting Information) further prove the change of morphology. Figure S10c (Supporting Information) shows there are some amorphous regions formed after the reconstruction. The amorphous structure can provide a large number of unsaturated sites, which is beneficial for improving the catalytic activity. Figure S10d–g (Supporting Information) depict that more O elements occur on the nanoparticle surface, revealing the formation of Ni-based hydroxides or oxyhydroxides. In addition, the XPS spectra before and after the reconstruction are shown in Figure S11a–c (Supporting Information). The reconstructed Ni@Ni3S2 exhibits a higher Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> content and a higher percentage of Ni─O bonds. The original peaks of S 2p1/2 and S 2p3/2 disappear, which are replaced by the S─O bonds representing SO4 2−. The Raman spectra in Figure 2e further confirm the production of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> species. The Figure S12 (Supporting Information) depicts a marginal decline in the peak current density subsequent to the solution exchange, hinting at a subtle detachment of SO4 2− ions from the Ni@Ni3S2 surface, while emphasizing the robust overall stability of the adherence.

The charge transfer resistance in Figure 2f is fitted by the equivalent circuit in Figure S13 (Supporting Information). Notably, after reconstruction, Ni@Ni3S2 exhibits the lowest charge transfer resistance (4.95 Ω, a 16.53% decrease compared to prereconstruction), whereas the control sample of Ni@NiO is minimally affected by the reconstruction process (a mere 5.44% decrease). The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) findings suggest that surface reconstruction of Ni@Ni3S2 enhances the charge transfer rate. In addition, the effect of surface reconstruction on the proton transfer rate is further deciphered by pH-dependent experiments (Figure 2g,h; Figure S14, Supporting Information). At 1.58 V, the activated Ni@Ni3S2 exhibits a pHdependent slope of 0.70, which is significantly lower than that

of Ni@NiO (slope = 1.14) under the same conditions. In general, the smaller pH dependence of the catalyst, the higher proton transfer activity it exhibits.[\[22\]](#page-9-0) Therefore, the activated Ni@Ni3S2 exhibits a faster proton transfer rate in the alkaline condition. Similarly, the in situ formed SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> on the Ni@Ni3S2 surface can serve as proton receivers to facilitate proton transfer in the HMFOR process.[\[23\]](#page-9-0) To further substantiate the role of SO4 2−, a comparative experiment was conducted by incorporating varying concentrations of Na2SO4 into the electrolyte. As depicted in Figure S15 (Supporting Information), an increase in SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> concentration was observed to correlate positively with an augmentation in current density and a concomitant reduction in the onset potential of HMFOR. This finding underscores the beneficial impact of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> groups in enhancing the HMFOR properties. The effect of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> on the HMFOR active sites is also investigated. As can be seen from Figure S16 (Supporting Information), the oxidation peak area of Ni@Ni3S2 is much larger than that of Ni@NiO, which implies that more Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ions are generated on Ni@Ni3S2 under the influence of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>. Notably, the positions of the reduction peaks for the two catalysts corresponding to 1.22 and 1.29 V, respectively, can be attributed to the production of -NiOOH, which is more favorable to promote the HM-FOR process.[\[24\]](#page-9-0) Generally, the number of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> sites can be compared by the integrated area of the reduction peak. As shown in Figure S17a,b (Supporting Information), the reduction peak area of Ni@Ni3S2 (6.37) is nearly four times higher than that of Ni@NiO (1.63), illustrating more active Ni sites generated on the Ni@Ni3S2 catalyst. On this premise, we have evaluated the oxidation behavior of Ni@Ni3S2 in the presence and absence of 10 mM HMF (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Due to the formation of -NiOOH, the peak current density of HMFOR (56.02 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) is much higher than that of oxygen evolution reaction (OER, 40.75 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). However, the overpotential of OER is lower than that of HMFOR at the same current density, with a maximum difference of 30 mV. This is attributed to SO4 2− induced surface reconstruction that enhances the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> on the catalyst, which rapidly increases the current density of OER.[\[25\]](#page-9-0)

Furthermore, the electrochemically active surface areas of Ni@Ni3S2, Ni@NiO, and Ni powders were also evaluated (Figure S19, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S20 (Supporting Information), the *C*dl value of Ni@Ni3S2 is 24.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is considerably higher than those of Ni@NiO (5.8 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Ni powders (2.9 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2). The substantial increase in *C*dl value indicates that the active sites on the Ni@Ni3S2 surface are significantly increased due to the formed Ni3S2 shell. Based on the *C*dl value in Figure S20 (Supporting Information), electrochemical active surface area (ESCA) is estimated to compare the intrinsic activities of Ni@Ni3S2 and Ni@NiO. LSV curves of HMFOR are normalized by the ECSA values. As shown in Figure S21 (Supporting Information), the HMFOR current density of Ni@Ni3S2 at 1.45 V (0.05 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) is still higher than that of Ni@NiO (0.01 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). This finding underscores that the Ni sites on Ni@Ni3S2 possess better intrinsic HMFOR activity than those of Ni@NiO. To emphasize the superiority of S2<sup>−</sup> on the formed active shells, NaCl and Na2SO4 solutions with the same concentration were also used as controls. As can be seen from Figure S22 (Supporting Information), the HMFOR performance of Ni@Ni3S2 is superior to those of Ni-NaCl and Ni-Na2SO4 catalysts. We further explored the effect of Na2S·9H2O concentrations on the HMFOR performance of the catalysts. The results show that the best HMFOR performance is obtained when the concentration of Na2S is 40 mm (Figure [2i;](#page-3-0) Figure S23, Supporting Information). Thus, the spontaneous corrosion of Ni powders in the different reaction solution has important influence on the HMF oxidation performances of Ni@Ni3S2.

#### **2.3. Reaction Pathway Analysis for HMFOR**

Generally, the electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF into FDCA involves two distinct reaction pathways: the HMF → DFF → FFCA → FDCA route (Path I) and the HMF → HMFCA → FFCA → FDCA route (Path II).[\[26\]](#page-9-0) To unravel the reaction process on Ni@Ni3S2, the HMF oxidation was conducted in an H-type cell at 1.45 V (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-5-0). The intermediates and final products during the electrolytic process were qualitied and quantified by employing the HPLC analysis. Prior to the detection, the HPLC standard curves and mixed standard curves of HMF and intermediates were constructed (Figure S24, Supporting Information). Figure [3b](#page-5-0) elucidates the HPLC curves of HMF oxidation on Ni@Ni3S2, and the detection of DFF and bits of HMFCA (Table S2, Supporting Information) confirms the presence of both oxidation pathways in this system. A striking color transformation (inset of Figure [3b\)](#page-5-0) in the electrolyte from the initial yellow color (HMF) to a nearly colorless state (FDCA) reveals the high conversion rate of HMF, matching well the previous work.[\[27\]](#page-9-0) The percentage changes of HMF and intermediates were calculated based on the standard curve. As depicted in Figure [3c](#page-5-0) and Table S3 (Supporting Information), the HMF conversion, FDCA yield, FDCA selectivity and Faraday efficiency reach impressive 99.61%, 99.20%, 99.51%, and 99.35%, respectively. Compared with the recently reported catalysts of other workers, Ni@Ni3S2 also demonstrates competitive advantages (Table S4, Supporting Information). In order to evaluate the cycling stability of Ni@Ni3S2, ten cycles of HMF electrooxidation experiments were conducted. Figure [3d](#page-5-0) and Table S3 (Supporting Information) exhibit that, the HMF conversion rate and Faraday efficiency after the ten-cycle tests reach 97.13% and 90.33%, respectively, proving the prominent durability of Ni@Ni3S2. As shown in Figure S25 (Supporting Information)), the average content of Ni ions in the solution after an i-t test is 14.69 μg L<sup>−</sup>1, higher than that before the test (5.71 μg L<sup>−</sup>1). This proves that there is a desorption phenomenon of Ni elements on the Ni@Ni3S2 surface. Fortunately, the loss of some Ni-based species does not obviously affect the HMFOR property. Furthermore, the linear relationship of ln(CHMF/C0) versus time derived by fitting the conversion rates of HMF in Figure S26 (Supporting Information), reveals a firstorder kinetic reaction for Ni@Ni3S2, Ni@NiO, and Ni powders. As depicted in Figure S27 (Supporting Information), Ni@Ni3S2 displays a kinetic constant (k) of 0.065 min<sup>−</sup>1, substantially surpassing those of Ni@NiO (0.006 min<sup>−</sup>1) and Ni powders (0.004 min<sup>−</sup>1), revealing a quick HMF oxidation kinetic.

In order to deeply investigate the reaction pathway of HM-FOR on Ni@Ni3S2, the *i–t* curves for the oxidation of DFF, HM-FCA, furfuryl alcohol, and furfural were measured (Figure [3e\)](#page-5-0). A comparison of the electro-oxidation behaviors of furfuryl

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Schematic diagram of electrolytic cell. b) HPLC traces of HMF electro-oxidation catalyzed by Ni@Ni3S2 at 1.45 V in 1.0 m KOH with 10 mm HMF. c) Conversion changes during the HMFOR process of Ni@Ni3S2. d) HMF conversion and Faraday efficiency of Ni@Ni3S2 under ten consecutive cycles. e) *I–t* curves of Ni@Ni3S2 catalyzed DFF, HMFCA, furfuryl alcohol and furfural f) Kinetic constants of Ni@Ni3S2 catalyzed DFF and HMFCA. g) Proposed reaction pathways for the HMF electro-oxidation performed on Ni@Ni3S2.

alcohol and furfural reveals that Ni@Ni3S2 exhibits higher selectivity for furfuryl alcohol with a -OH group (Figure S28, Supporting Information). This observation can be used to explain the high content of DFF in Figure 3b,c due to the preferential oxidation of -OH groups in HMF by Ni@Ni3S2. Figure 3f, which is fitted from Figure S29 (Supporting Information), further shows that the oxidation rate of DFF on Ni@Ni3S2 (k = 0.030 min<sup>−</sup>1) is significantly higher than that of HMFCA (k = 0.011 min<sup>−</sup>1). This result confirms that the relatively high amount of DFF observed in Figure 3b,c is not a consequence of a slower oxidation rate. Based on the above findings, it can be concluded that the HMF oxidation on Ni@Ni3S2 proceeds through both DFF and HMFCA pathways, with the DFF pathway being dominant and the oxidation rate of DFF being considerably higher than that of HMFCA (Figure 3g). Different from other reported Ni-based electrodes mainly following HMFCA pathway, the preferential DFF pathway is achieved on Ni@Ni3S2, which will be analyzed in the DFT calculation part.[\[28\]](#page-9-0) Consequently, the enhanced oxidative capacity of Ni@Ni3S2 leads to the rapid generation of FDCA.

#### **2.4. HMFOR Mechanisms on Ni@Ni3S2 Catalysts**

The in situ EIS at different potentials was investigated to further analyze the surface charge transfer during the HMFOR process. Compared to the determination without HMF, the phase angle values of Ni@Ni3S2 decrease obviously with increasing potentials after the introduction of HMF (**Figure 4**[a,b\)](#page-6-0), signifying an obvious reduction of the electrochemical impedance values. This is due to the strong adsorption of HMF on Ni@Ni3S2, resulting in the accelerated charge transfer capacity in the active layers.[\[8\]](#page-8-0) Compared to Ni@NiO, Ni@Ni3S2 demonstrates a reduced interfacial phase angle at the same potentials in the HMF-containing electrolyte (Figure [4b,c\)](#page-6-0), indicating the enhanced charge transfer efficiency. Additionally, Ni@Ni3S2 shows lower resonance frequency peak positions, which implies the production of oxide active species of S and Ni, corresponding to the generation of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> and -NiOOH detected in Figure [2d](#page-3-0) and Figure S16 (Supporting Information).[\[29\]](#page-9-0) Besides, the Nyquist plots in Figure S30a,b (Supporting Information) show a rapid decrease in the

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Bode plots of a) OER and b) HMFOR of Ni@Ni3S2. c) Bode plots of HMFOR for Ni@NiO. In situ Raman spectra of d,e) Ni@Ni3S2 and f) Ni@NiO in 1.0 m KOH solution. g) Comparison of adsorption energies of Ni3S2 and NiO on HMF. h) Intermediate and transition state adsorption energies of Ni3S2 in the HMFOR process.

impedance of Ni@Ni3S2 in the presence of HMF within the potential range of 1.30 to 1.35 V. This suggests an activation process within this potential window, matching well with the onset potential of 1.32 V for HMFOR. As the potential ranges from 1.45 to 1.50 V (Figure S30b,c, Supporting Information), both Ni@Ni3S2 and Ni@NiO exhibit an increase in impedance, which is consistent with the reduction in current density observed on the LSV curve in this potential range. This observation is indicative of electrode surface passivation and the gradual dominance of the OER.[\[30\]](#page-9-0)

Moreover, the in situ Raman spectra were utilized to observe the real-time structural transformations on the Ni@Ni3S2 surface. Figure 4d,e shows the appearance of 471 and 553 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Raman peaks of Ni3<sup>+</sup> at ≈1.30 V, with coincides with the electrochemical behavior observed in Figure S18 (Supporting Information) where the OER current density starts to increase dramatically.[\[31\]](#page-9-0) As the voltage is further enhanced to 1.45 V, the peak intensity of Ni3<sup>+</sup> increases, indicating a higher content of Ni3<sup>+</sup> active species. These generated Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> active phases are attributed to the electron-deficient Ni sites and in situ formed SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> groups on Ni@Ni3S2, which promotes the quick activation and oxidation of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species. As the voltage continues to increase, the peak intensity of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> gradually weakens, suggesting that excessive voltage is not conducive for the efficient catalysis of HMF, but instead promotes the OER process.[\[32\]](#page-9-0) Compared with Ni@NiO (Figure 4f), Ni@Ni3S2 shows a much lower onset potential for the generation of Ni3<sup>+</sup> species. In addition, Ni@Ni3S2 has higher peak intensity, indicating that the number of the generated Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> active species far exceeds that of Ni@NiO. More importantly, when the experimental conditions were shifted to include 10 mm HMF, it was observed that these newly formed Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> sites were promptly reduced back to Ni2<sup>+</sup> by HMF (Figure S31, Supporting Information). This phenomenon not only underscores the direct involvement of Ni3<sup>+</sup> in the HMF oxidation reaction but also emphasizes their crucial role as catalytic active centers. Consequently, the dynamically generated Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> sites on the Ni@Ni3S2 surface are pivotal for achieving efficient HMF oxidation performance.

In addition, the adsorption energy changes of intermediates were calculated to elucidate the HMFOR mechanism on Ni3S2. The most favorable configuration of each intermediate was selected in the calculations (Figures S32 and S33, Supporting

**Figure 5.** a) Photos of 13.97 g Ni@Ni3S2-MP catalysts prepared from 12.00 g nickel powder. b) SEM images of Ni@Ni3S2-MP catalysts. c) XRD patterns of Ni@Ni3S2-MP and Ni@Ni3S2 catalysts. d) Conversion changes during the HMFOR process on Ni@Ni3S2-MP.

Information).[\[33\]](#page-9-0) The result in Figure [4g](#page-6-0) indicates that the adsorption of HMF on Ni3S2 is more favored than that on NiO, consistent with the OCP changes in Figure [2a.](#page-3-0) Figure [4h](#page-6-0) provides further insight into the adsorption energies of intermediates and transition states on the Ni3S2 surface during HMFOR. Notably, the energy barrier for HMF oxidation to DFF (0.56 eV) is considerably lower compared to the barrier observed for HMFCA formation (0.83 eV). Thus, the HMFOR on Ni3S2 preferentially selects the DFF pathway instead of the HMFCA route. Moreover, the reaction energy barrier for the transformation from DFF to FFCA as a rate-determining step (1.00 eV) is lower than that of the oxidation of HMFCA (1.23 eV), which coincides with the faster reaction rate for the oxidation of DFF to produce FFCA on Ni@Ni3S2 as mentioned above. Therefore, we can conclude that the HMFOR process on Ni3S2 catalyst is conducted by preferentially selecting the DFF pathway and accelerating the ratedetermining step of DFF oxidation to generate FFCA.

#### **2.5. Scalable Fabrication of Ni@Ni3S2 Catalysts**

Utilizing the benign reaction conditions of the spontaneous corrosion strategy, the mass production of Ni@Ni3S2 catalysts can be accomplished with relative ease. In this investigation, 13.97 g of Ni@Ni3S2-MP catalysts were synthesized from 12.00 g of Ni powders, as depicted in **Figure 5**a. The SEM image in Figure 5b reveals that the Ni@Ni3S2-MP catalysts possess a bayberry-like morphology, comparable to those synthesized in smaller quantities. XRD analysis further corroborates the establishment of Ni3S2 corrosion layers enveloping the Ni spheres, as shown in Figure 5c. Moreover, the HMFOR performances of the Ni@Ni3S2-MP catalysts were assessed. Displayed in Figure S34 (Supporting Information), both the Ni@Ni3S2-MP and the smaller batch Ni@Ni3S2 catalysts manifest an onset potential of 1.32 V for HMFOR, although the peak oxidation current density for Ni@Ni3S2-MP is marginally reduced at 47.26 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, in contrast to 50.33 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for the Ni@Ni3S2 catalysts. As shown in Figure 5d, there is almost no HMF left when the charge reaches 86.7 C, and the process of transforming HMF into FDCA is relatively thorough. Figure S35 (Supporting Information) further shows the excellent performance of Ni@Ni3S2-MP, with HMF conversion of 99.25%, FDCA yield of 96.69%, Faraday efficiency of 96.84% and HMF selectivity of 97.42%, similar to those derived by the Ni@Ni3S2 catalyst (99.61%, 99.20%, 99.35%, and 99.51%). These characterizations substantiate that the structural and electrochemical performances of the Ni@Ni3S2-MP catalysts are similar to those synthesized in smaller quantities. The ingenious application of spontaneous corrosion strategy has successfully achieved the mass production of high-performance Ni@Ni3S2 catalysts.

## **3. Conclusion**

This study reports the synthesis of a bayberry-like Ni@Ni3S2 core–shell catalyst via a spontaneous corrosion strategy for efficient electro-oxidation of HMF. The Ni3S2 shells with abundant electron-deficient Ni sites facilitates the generation of highvalence Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> active species, crucial for HMFOR catalytic activity.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>The surface reconstruction process of Ni3S2, (the oxidation of S2<sup>−</sup> to SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>) enhances the electron and proton transport capacity. Consequently, the synthesized Ni@Ni3S2 catalyst exhibits a remarkable oxidation current density of 50.3 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1.45 V, surpassing that of Ni@NiO by over fivefold. HPLC analysis reveals a high FDCA yield and Faraday efficiency of 99.20% and 99.35%, respectively, accompanied by outstanding cyclic stability. DFT calculations demonstrate that the Ni3S2 shell significantly enhances HMF adsorption while lowering the adsorption energy difference of transition states in the DFF pathway compared to the HMFCA pathway. This preferential adsorption and lower activation energy barrier in the DFF pathway leads to the predominant formation of FDCA via the DFF route, with a significantly accelerated rate-determining step for FFCA generation. Importantly, a scalable production of 13.97 g Ni@Ni3S2 has been successfully achieved, highlighting its potential for practical applications. These findings provide a valuable reference for designing high-performance catalysts based on manipulating the reaction routes for efficient biomass conversion.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Scientific and Technological Research Project, Henan province (222102320147), the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2021M690930), the Key Scientific Research Project of Henan Province Higher Education of China (No. 23A430005, 24A430023) and the Graduate Student Research and Practice Innovation Program of Henan Normal University (Grant no. YZ202405).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

2, 5-furandicarboxylic acid, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural, electrocatalyst, mass production, Ni@Ni3S2 catalyst

> Received: August 10, 2024 Revised: September 14, 2024 Published online: November 7, 2024

[1] a) X. Yuan, K. Lee, J. B. Eisenberg, J. R. Schmidt, K.-S. Choi, *Nat. Catal.* **2024**, *7*, 43; b) X. Yuan, K. Lee, J. R. Schmidt, K.-S. Choi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 20473; c) Y. Zhu, W. Deng, Y. Tan, J. Shi, J. Wu, W. Lu, J. Jia, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2304985.

- [2] a) Y. Wu, Y. Jiang, W. Chen, X. Yue, C.-L. Dong, M. Qiu, T. T. T. Nga, M. Yang, Z. Xia, C. Xie, L. Xu, R. Wang, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2307799; b) L. Zeng, Y. Chen, M. Sun, Q. Huang, K. Sun, J. Ma, J. Li, H. Tan, M. Li, Y. Pan, Y. Liu, M. Luo, B. Huang, S. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17577.
- [3] a) Z. Zhou, Y.-n. Xie, L. Sun, Z. Wang, W. Wang, L. Jiang, X. Tao, L. Li, X.-H. Li, G. Zhao, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2022**, *305*, 121072; b) S. Li, S. Wang, Y. Wang, J. He, K. Li, Y. Xu, M. Wang, S. Zhao, X. Li, X. Zhong, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214488.
- [4] a) T. Jing, S. Yang, T. Li, Y. Wan, H. Jia, Y. Feng, Y. Zuo, D. Rao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2407335; b) S. Li, X. Sun, Z. Yao, X. Zhong, Y. Cao, Y. Liang, Z. Wei, S. Deng, G. Zhuang, X. Li, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1904780.
- [5] Y. Li, H. Huang, M. Jiang, W. Xi, J. Duan, M. Ratova, D. Wu, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *98*, 24.
- [6] a) C. Chen, M. Lv, H. Hu, L. Huai, B. Zhu, S. Fan, Q. Wang, J. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311464; b) Z. Zhang, G. W. Huber, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 1351; c) Z. Yang, S. Wang, C. Wei, L. Chen, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 1603.
- [7] a) Y. Song, X. Zhang, Z. Xiao, Y. Wang, P. Yi, M. Huang, L. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2024**, *352*, 124028; b) L. Sun, Z. Zhou, Y. Xie, J. Zheng, X. Pan, L. Li, G. Zhao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301884.
- [8] C. Liu, X.-R. Shi, K. Yue, P. Wang, K. Zhan, X. Wang, B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211177.
- [9] P. Xu, Z. Bao, Y. Zhao, L. Zheng, Z. Lv, X. Shi, H.-E. Wang, X. Fang, H. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2303557.
- [10] J.-X. Feng, J.-Q. Wu, Y.-X. Tong, G.-R. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 610.
- [11] X. Ding, D. Liu, P. Zhao, X. Chen, H. Wang, F. E. Oropeza, G. Gorni, M. Barawi, M. García-Tecedor, V. A. de la Peña O'Shea, J. P. Hofmann, J. Li, J. Kim, S. Cho, R. Wu, K. H. L. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 5336.
- [12] a) H. Q. Fu, M. Zhou, P. F. Liu, P. Liu, H. Yin, K. Z. Sun, H. G. Yang, M. Al-Mamun, P. Hu, H.-F. Wang, H. Zhao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 6028; b) K. Zhang, Y. Duan, N. Graham, W. Yu, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2023**, *323*, 122144.
- [13] a) J. Liu, L. Pu, Q. Zhang, Z. Cheng, Y. Zheng, Y. Wang, W. Liu, S. Li, J. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *461*, 141910; b) Y. Song, Y. Zhao, G. Nan, W. Chen, Z. Guo, S. Li, Z. Tang, W. Wei, Y. Sun, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2020**, *270*, 118888.
- [14] a) D. Wu, X. Xie, J. Zhang, Y. Ma, C. Hou, X. Sun, X. Yang, Y. Zhang, H. Kimura, W. Du, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *446*, 137262; b) Y. Fan, X. He, H. Li, Y. Huang, C. Sun, H. Liu, E. Huangzhang, F. Sun, X. Zhao, J. Nan, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *450*, 138384.
- [15] a) L.-F. Li, Y.-F. Li, Z.-P. Liu, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 2581; b) X. Dou, D. Yuan, X. Liang, K. Song, R. Hu, L. Zhang, J. C. Roy, X. Jiang, H. K. Liu, Y. Dou, L. Yu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *468*, 143715.
- [16] a) Y. Yan, J. Lin, T. Xu, B. Liu, K. Huang, L. Qiao, S. Liu, J. Cao, S. C. Jun, Y. Yamauchi, J. Qi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200434; b) C. Mochizuki, Y. Inomata, S. Yasumura, M. Lin, A. Taketoshi, T. Honma, N. Sakaguchi, M. Haruta, K.-i. Shimizu, T. Ishida, T. Murayama, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 6149.
- [17] a) K. Hu, G. Lv, J. Zhang, X. Guo, Z. Wu, W. Xiang, X. Lan, K. Zhou, P. Xu, L. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 42660; b) Q. Dong, M. Wei, Q. Zhang, L. Xiao, X. Cai, S. Zhang, Q. Gao, Y. Fang, F. Peng, S. Yang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *459*, 141542.
- [18] L. Cai, B. Yan, Q. Xue, J. Li, P. Liu, X. Qi, G. Yang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 18939.
- [19] a) A. Rabenau, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **1985**, *97*, 1017; b) B. Wu, H. Qian, Z. Nie, Z. Luo, Z. Wu, P. Liu, H. He, J. Wu, S. Chen, F. Zhang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2020**, *46*, 178.
- [20] X. Liu, X. Wang, C. Mao, J. Qiu, R. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Chen, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202408109.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

- [21] W. Chen, Y. Liu, Y. Li, J. Sun, Y. Qiu, C. Liu, G. Zhou, Y. Cui, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 7588.
- [22] C.-F. Li, J.-W. Zhao, L.-J. Xie, J.-Q. Wu, Q. Ren, Y. Wang, G.-R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 18129.
- [23] M. Liu, N. Li, X. Wang, J. Zhao, D.-C. Zhong, W. Li, X.-H. Bu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202300507.
- [24] Z. Li, Y. Zhou, M. Xie, H. Cheng, T. Wang, J. Chen, Y. Lu, Z. Tian, Y. Lai, G. Yu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202217815.
- [25] a) D. Xiao, X. Bao, D. Dai, Y. Gao, S. Si, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, P. Wang, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, Y. Dai, B. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304133; b) J. He, X. Shi, Q. Liu, H. Wu, Y. Yu, X. Lu, Z. Yang, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2306258.
- [26] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Li, J. Chen, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007056.
- [27] X. Liu, R. Wang, M. Wei, X. Wang, J. Qiu, J. Zhang, S. Li, Y. Chen, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *657*, 438.

- [28] a) J. Wang, W. Zhao, H. Yu, W. Wang, Y. Xu, L.-L. Shen, G.-R. Zhang, D. Mei, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2024**, *353*, 124086; b) G. Lin, H. Fan, Y. Zhan, C. Chen, X. Zhao, W. Lin, B. Li, J. Wang, J. Li, W. Song, J. Fu, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 1862.
- [29] M. Lee, H.-S. Oh, M. K. Cho, J.-P. Ahn, Y. J. Hwang, B. K. Min, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2018**, *233*, 130.
- [30] P. Guo, S. Cao, W. Huang, X. Lu, W. Chen, Y. Zhang, Y. Wang, X. Xin, R. Zou, S. Liu, X. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311766.
- [31] D. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Cao, L. Wang, H. Lee, G. Lin, W. Li, G. Ding, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202309478.
- [32] a) X. Liu, J. Wang, H. Liao, J. Chen, S. Zhang, L. Tan, X. Zheng, D. Chu, P. Tan, J. Pan, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 5027; b) X. Wu, X. Song, H. Tan, Y. Kang, Z. Zhao, S. Jin, X. Chang, *Mater. Today Energy* **2022**, *26*, 101008.
- [33] S. Wang, G. Yang, Y. Jiao, Y. Liu, C. Tian, A. Wu, H. Yan, *Sci. China Chem.* **2023**, *66*, 3636.