---
source: Chen 等 - 2025 - Photothermal Assisted Biomass Oxidation for Pairing Carbon Dioxide Electroreduction with Low Cell Po.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 9.924s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:33:27.386155Z
---

www.chemsuschem.org

# **Photothermal Assisted Biomass Oxidation for Pairing Carbon Dioxide Electroreduction with Low Cell Potential**

Houjun Chen<sup>+</sup> , [a] Rongcheng Peng<sup>+</sup> , [a] Ting Hu,[a] Naizhuo Tang,[a] Yahan Wang,[a] Yan Zhang,\*[a] Wenpeng Ni,\*[a] and [Shiguo](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6651-2752) Zhang\*[a]

Integrating anodic biomass valorization with carbon dioxide electroreduction (CO2RR) can produce value-added chemicals on both the cathode and anode; however, anodic oxidation still suffers from high overpotential. Herein, a photothermal-assisted method was developed to reduce the potential of 5-hydroxymethyl furfural (HMF) electrooxidation. Capitalizing on the copious oxygen vacancies, defective Co3O4 (D-Co3O4) exhibited a stronger photothermal effect, delivering a local temperature of 175.47°C under near infrared light illumination. The photothermal assistance decreased the oxidation potential of HMF from 1.7 V over pristine Co3O4 to 1.37 V over D-Co3O4 to achieve a target current density of 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , with 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid as the primary product. Mechanistic analysis disclosed that the photothermal effect did not change the HMF oxidation route but greatly enhanced the adsorption capacity of HMF. Meanwhile, faster electron transfer for direct HMF oxidation and the surface conversion to cobalt (oxy)hydroxide, which contributed to indirect HMF oxidation, was observed. Thus, rapid HMF conversion was realized, as evidenced by in situ surfaceenhanced infrared spectroscopy. Upon coupling cathodic CO2RR with an atomically dispersed Ni N/C catalyst, the Faradaic efficiencies of CO (cathode) and 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA, anode) exceeded 90.0% under a low cell potential of 1.77 V.

# **Introduction**

Electrochemical carbon dioxide reduction (CO2RR), driven by sustainable electric energy, represents a promising strategy for mitigating the energy and environmental issues stemming from the excessive consumption of fossil fuels (e.g., coal, petroleum, and natural gas).[1] Not only can conventional CO2 reduction products (e.g., CO, CH4, C2H4, C2H5OH) be generated, but a plethora of other high-value-added chemicals have also been reported by tandem catalysis design. Endeavors, including catalyst and electrolyte design alongside electrolyzer engineering, have been earnestly directed toward enhancing CO2 conversion selectivity.[2–10] In the aqueous electrolyte, the widely accepted system for CO2 electroreduction, the cathodic CO2RR is paired with the anodic water oxidation process, known as the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). As in other electrolysis systems with the same anodic reaction, such as electrochemical overall water decomposition, the large kinetic barrier of OER leads to a very high cell potential required to power the electrolytic cell.[11] It has been claimed that approximately 90% of the electric energy is consumed by the anodic OER in the CO2RR system.[12]

[a] *College of Materials Science and Engineering, Hunan University, 410082, China*

*Correspondence: Yan Zhang, Wenpeng Ni and Shiguo Zhang, College of Materials Science and Engineering, Hunan University, 410082, China. Email: zyan1980@hnu.edu.cn and aniwenpeng@163.com and zhangsg@hnu.edu.cn*

<sup>+</sup>] *H. J. Chen and R. C. Peng contributed equally to this work.*

In addition to introducing a more active anodic electrocatalyst, substituting OER with a kinetic fast reaction has garnered increased attention of late, such as organic electrosynthesis and electro-oxidative waste treatment. This method not only operates with higher energy efficiency but also yields more valuable chemicals.[13] Potential candidates for coupling with CO2RR include hydrogen sulfide oxidation, hydrazine oxidation, urea oxidation, methane oxidation, alcohol oxidation, and biomass oxidation, all demonstrating theoretically lower onset potential than OER.[12, 14–21] Notably, 5-hydroxymethyl furfural (HMF), a prototypical bio-derived platform molecule with active hydroxyl and aldehyde groups, can be oxidized to 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) with the theoretical potential of 0.3 V (versus reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE).[22–35] As one of the most promising bioderived platform molecules, FDCA can act as an alternative chemical in fine chemicals and medicines. It also offers the appealing prospect of producing bioplastics, semi-aromatic nylon, unsaturated resin, and optical/ gas barrier special functional polymers. In this context, the coelectrolysis of CO2 reduction and HMF oxidation has been explored with elaborate catalyst design, ranging from noble metal to transition metal compounds.[36–39] For instance, oxygen-vacancy-rich indium oxyhydroxide showed a bifunctional catalytic role in CO2 reduction and HMF oxidation.[40] With a cell potential of 2.27 V, cathodic formate selectivity reached over 90.0%, accompanied by an FDCA yield of 87.5%, enabling the production of value-added chemicals on both sides of the electrolytic cell. Furthermore, employing a bipolar membranebased flow cell, a current density of up to 188.8 mAcm <sup>2</sup> can be obtained at a cell potential of 2.75 V over a bifunctional catalyst of hybrid Cu2O/Cu nanoflower.[41] In this system, ethylene and FDCA serve as the primary products for the cathode and anode, respectively. However, despite significant advancements in

*Supporting Information for this article is available on the WWW under <https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202400493>*

energy efficiency compared with the CO2RR-OER system, the required potential for HMF oxidation still exceeds 1.55 V to attain comparable product selectivity. Therefore, beyond pursuing the development of a more active electrocatalyst, a novel strategy for reducing the overpotential of HMF oxidation is urgently needed.

Introducing external fields to improve the electrocatalysis efficiency has attracted great interest.[42–43] From a thermodynamic perspective, the locally heated electrode induced by external fields, such as alternating magnetic field and solar, can enhance the endothermic adsorption steps for reactants and intermediates.[44–45] The photothermal effect, defined as the conversion of solar light to heat, can achieve self-heating of the working electrode and confine the heating effect on the electrode surface. Herein, we proposed a photothermal-assist method to promote the anodic oxidation of HMF molecules. Employing oxygen-vacancy-rich cobalt oxide (D-Co3O4) as the catalyst model, this approach features high catalytic ability toward HMF oxidation and an exceptional photothermal effect.[46–48] Under near-infrared light (NIR, 808 nm) illumination, the local temperature of the catalyst electrode increased to 175.47°C, markedly enhancing the adsorption of HMF molecules and hydroxide ions. Consequently, the oxidation potential, with a total current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Ej<sup>=</sup><sup>10</sup> mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), decreased from 1.57 V to 1.20 V. Following the coupling of photothermal-assisted HMF oxidation, CO2 reduction over an atomically dispersed Ni-N C catalyst delivered an Ej<sup>=</sup><sup>10</sup> mAcm <sup>2</sup> of 2.2 V, surpassing both the conventional CO2RR-OER system (3.2 V) and the CO2RR-HMFOR without light illumination (2.93 V), while maintaining a Faradaic efficiency (FE) for CO and FDCA higher than 90.0%.

# **Results and Discussions**

Co3O4 nanoparticles were prepared via a metal-organic framework-templated method, involving the direct calcination of zeolitic imidazolate framework-67 (ZIF-67) in an air atmosphere (Figure S1). Subsequently, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was utilized to characterize the morphology of the resultant catalyst. The SEM image illustrated that the calcination step led to the aggregation of irregular nanoparticles (Figure S2). The Xray diffraction (XRD) pattern showed characteristic peaks at 2θ =31.1°, 36.8°, 38.4°, 44.7°, 55.8°, 59.3°, and 65.3°, which can be indexed to the crystal planes of (220), (311), (400), (422), (511), and (440) of Co3O4 with a face-centered cubic structure (JCPDS No: 42–1467, Figure 1a). The pore structure was analyzed by N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm analysis. As depicted in Figure 1b, the adsorption mainly occurred in the medium and high-pressure regions, indicative of a mesopore or microporous architecture (Figure S3). The specific surface area (*S*BET) was determined to be 63.0 m2 g <sup>1</sup> . To introduce oxygen vacancies into the as-prepared Co3O4 nanoparticles, a NaBH4 reduction step was utilized and the sample was denoted as D-Co3O4. An identical XRD pattern was observed, and no diffraction peaks for reduced cobalt oxides or metallic Co were found (Figure 1a). This means the crystalline structure of Co3O4 was well preserved. Furthermore, comparable morphology and pore structure were also detected for D-Co3O4 (*S*BET =68.6 m<sup>2</sup> g <sup>1</sup> , Figures S4 and S5). Thus, it can be inferred that the surface reduction during the NaBH4 treatment process does not compromise the integrity of the Co3O4 nanoparticle texture.

To further identify the generation of the defective structure of D-Co3O4, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), electron

**Figure 1.** (a) XRD patterns, (b) N2 adsorption-desorption curves of Co3O4 and D-Co3O4. The high-resolution XPS (c) Co 2p, and (d) O 1s spectra of Co3O4 and D-Co3O4. (e) EPR spectra, and (f) Raman spectra for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4.

1864564x, 2025, 2, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202400493 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and Raman spectra analysis were conducted. Only Co, O, and C elements were found in the survey spectra for both Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 (Figure S6, with C attributed to the hydrocarbon contaminants inherently present in XPS analysis).[49] The high-resolution Co 2p XPS spectra disclosed the spin doublet of Co2<sup>+</sup> (781.2 and 796.7 eV) and Co3<sup>+</sup> (779.6 and 794.7 eV), along with discernible satellite peaks (Figure 1c). Upon the introduction of oxygen vacancies, the ratio of Co2<sup>+</sup>/Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> increased from 0.94 in Co3O4 to 2.38 in D-Co3O4, suggesting a reduced average valence state of Co atoms. This can be ascribed to the extraction of lattice oxygen during the formation of oxygen vacancy.[50] As illustrated in Figure 1d, the O 1s spectra can be deconvoluted into the lattice oxygen (529.7 eV), defect sites with low oxygen coordination (531.2 eV), and surface adsorbed molecular moisture (532.6 eV).[51] The proportion of defect sites was determined to be 46.4% and 68.2% for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4, respectively. Furthermore, lowtemperature EPR spectroscopy was conducted to validate the defective nature of D-Co3O4. A distinct peak at a g-factor of 2.001 was observed for D-Co3O4, indicating a higher concentration of oxygen vacancies compared to pristine Co3O4 (Figure 1e).[52] The Raman spectrum of Co3O4 shows three broad peaks at 474.1, 520.5, and 688.6 cm <sup>1</sup> , which are assigned to the characteristic modes of Eg, F2g(2) and A1g of Co3O4, respectively (Figure 1f).[53–54] In contrast, the Raman peaks of D-Co3O4 displayed a shift towards lower wavenumbers (by 5.7 cm <sup>1</sup> ). Additionally, the half-width of the principal A1g peak of Co3O4 measured 9.6 cm <sup>1</sup> , smaller than the 15.2 cm <sup>1</sup> observed for D-Co3O4. These findings strongly support the defect-rich structure of D-Co3O4. [54]

The highly crystalline structure of Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 were further corroborated by high-angle annular dark field highresolution scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM). As shown in Figure 2a, b, the well-defined lattice planes are observed in Co3O4 nanoparticles. The corresponding inverse fast Fourier transform (IFFT) patterns for the selected area with red and blue boxes, coupled with their intensity profile, clearly give the interplanar d-spacing of 4.67 and 2.43 Å, which response to the (111) and (311) planes of Co3O4 (Figure 2c, d, e, f). As for D-Co3O4, the HAADF-STEM image showed the atomic

**Figure 2.** (a–b) HRTEM images of Co3O4. (c–f) The IFFT patterns for the selected red and blue box in (a) and (b), and their corresponding integrated pixel intensity profile. (g) HRTEM image of D-Co3O4. (h) The intensity profile for the line A direction in (g). (i) False color image of D-Co3O4.

arrangement across the entire crystal phase, showcasing the polycrystalline orientation, including the (111), (220), and (311) planes (Figure 2d). This suggests a surface-confined transformation during the NaHB4 treatment. The integrated pixel intensity profile following the line A direction shown in Figure 2g demonstrated the defect sites (Figure 2h). Furthermore, the visible defect area was observed by the false color image of D-Co3O4 (Figure 2i).

The influence of oxygen vacancy on the photothermal effect of Co3O4 was subsequently explored using infrared temperature testing. Given the broad light absorption spectrum of Co3O4 extending up to 850 nm, near-infrared (NIR) light at 808 nm was selected as the irradiation source.[55] Upon direct laser irradiation of the catalytic electrode coated with the catalyst, the local temperature rapidly escalated to 151.94°C for Co3O4 (Figure 3a), indicating efficient conversion of light energy into heat. This phenomenon was attributed to the collective oscillation of holes due to the relatively high hole concentration in the valence band of Co3O4. [55] Introducing oxygen defects yielded a more pronounced photothermal effect, evidenced by a higher temperature of 175.47°C for D-Co3O4. Attention was then directed towards the influence of the photothermal effect on the electrocatalytic activity of both Co3O4 and D-Co3O4. In the electrolyte of 0.1 M KOH containing 50 mM HMF, D-Co3O4 exhibits a slightly lower potential than that of Co3O4, according to their linear scanning voltammetry curves (LSV, Figure 3b). Applying an 808 nm laser with a power of 3 W, the LSV curves exhibited a significant negative shift. For example, the potentials for achieving the current density of 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> are 1.44 and 1.37 V for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 (denoted as Co3O4-3 W and

**Figure 3.** (a) Infrared images of Co3O4 (up) and D-Co3O4 (down) under the 808 nm light irradiation. (b) LSV curves for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 with and without laser irradiation in 0.1 M KOH containing 50 mM HMF. (c) Comparisons about the potentials and current density for reported typical catalysts and our work. (d) The high-performance liquid chromatography spectra for electrolyte after electrolysis with different durations over the D-Co3O4-3W. (e) The concentration of HMF and the different intermediates/products collected at different times of D-Co3O4-3W. (f) The cycle performance of D-Co3O4-3W. (g) The variation of current density under alternately switched laser irradiation for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4. (h) Differences in charging and discharging current density were plotted against scan rates for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 with and without laser irradiation. (i) The ECSA normalized current density for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 with and without laser irradiation.

D-Co3O4-3 W). These values are significantly lower than those obtained without laser irradiation (1.7 V for Co3O4 and 1.69 V for D-Co3O4). Figure 3c compares potentials and current densities for our photothermal-assisted D-Co3O4 with other previously reported catalysts. D-Co3O4-3 W can achieve the target current density at a relatively lower applied potential. Thus, it can be concluded that the photothermal-assisted strategy can greatly accelerate HMF oxidation.

Next, the content of HMF and other reaction intermediates was analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HLCP) to disclose the HMF oxidation routes under laser irradiation. The standard quantification curves can be found in Figures S7 and S8. As shown in the HPLC spectra of electrolyte post-electrolysis at the constant potential of 1.35 V over D-Co3O4 for varying durations, the intensity of peak at the retention time of 7.5 min, attributed to the HMF, gradually decreased. Concurrently, the signal for FDCA detected at 3.9 min, exhibited an increase with reaction time. The reaction intermediates, including 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA) and 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA), were also identified. These results mean that HMF was converted into FFCA, involving the preferential oxidation of the aldehyde group into the carboxyl group first, as confirmed by the absence of 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF) in the HPLC spectra.[56] The concentration of FDCA reached 47.72 mM, and the remained HMF was 1.29 mM at the end of electrolysis (namely the stoichiometric charge for the theoretically full conversion of HMF to FDCA passed through), indicating a conversion efficiency of 97.42% and an FDCA yield of 95.44% (Figure 3e). A robust cyclic performance was observed for the photothermalassisted HMF oxidation system. The FDCA yield higher than 90.0% was maintained over 5 cycles **(**Figure 3f).

To disclose the origin of the excellent activity of D-Co3O4- 3 W, we initially examined the potential influence of temperature variations in the bulk electrolyte induced by the photothermal effect. Upon exposure of the electrode to an 808 nm laser, a slight increase in the electrolyte temperature was observed. Infrared imaging indicated that the temperature of the bulk electrolyte rose from room temperature (25.3–28.67°C) to 37.11–39.3°C (Figure S9). The introduction of HMF was found to have minimal impact on the temperature variation of the bulk electrolyte. Then we inspected the LSV curves of different catalysts in a heated electrolyte at 39°C (Figure S10). Despite the heated electrolyte reducing the potential required to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm <sup>2</sup> to 1.52–1.54 V for both Co3O4 and D-Co3O4, these values remained significantly higher than those observed in the photothermal-assisted system. These results underscore that the exceptional activity observed for Co3O4-3 W and D-Co3O4-3 W primarily stems from the photothermal effect of the catalytic electrode rather than temperature changes in the electrolyte. To corroborate this assertion, we alternately activated and deactivated the laser while monitoring the fluctuation in current density under a constant potential of 1.35 V (with a time interval of 100 s). The current density at the initial stage was 17.0 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , but it increased to 24.2 mAcm <sup>2</sup> immediately after laser illumination (Figure 3g). After turning off the laser, the current density reverted to the range of 16~17 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . These alternative variations were repeatable six times without observable decay in current density. Similar behavior was also observed for Co3O4, albeit with a lower current density compared to D-Co3O4. To investigate the changes in intrinsic activity upon photothermal assistance, the electrochemical specific area (ECSA) was measured for both Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 by double-layer capacitance analysis within the non-Faradaic response window (Figure S11). The calculated ECSA values for Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 were 1.60 and 2.05 cm<sup>2</sup> , respectively (Figure 3h). Laser illumination increased the ECSA to 2.28 (Co3O4) and 7.93 cm2 (D-Co3O4). Then the ECSA-normalized LSV curves were compared, and the results suggest that the photothermal effect can boost the intrinsic activity of HMF oxidation (Figure 3i).

The mechanism underlying the promotional role of the photothermal effect in HMF oxidation was further explored. The time-dependent variations in open-circuit potential (OCP) were monitored upon the addition of HMF and the introduction of laser irradiation. Since OCP is determined by the equilibrium of electrode potential, which is influenced by the exchange of adsorbates and ions within the Helmholtz layer, changes in OCP can serve as an indicator of the HMF adsorption performance of different catalysts.[57] As shown in Figure 4a, the OCP of Co3O4 collected in 0.1 M KOH was 0.91 V, which was reduced to 0.90 V immediately after injecting 50 mM HMF due to the adsorption of HMF. Conversely, the OCP change for D-Co3O4 was 30 mV after adding HMF, which can be rationalized by the stronger adsorption ability of oxygen vacancies towards HMF molecules. More interestingly, the adsorption capacities of Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 are both greatly enhanced under NIR exposure, as evidenced by the 370 and 450 mV OCP drop. Furthermore, the CV curves were acquired in 0.1 M KOH to assess the OH adsorption behavior. Since HMF molecules adsorb onto active sites via the C=C or C=O moiety, the interaction strength between active sites and O atoms can partially reflect the adsorption behavior of HMF.[58] Therefore, the lower OH adsorption potential of Co3O4-3 W (1.52 V) and D-Co3O4-3 W (1.44 V) compared to the counterparts of Co3O4 (1.55 V) and D-Co3O4 (1.49 V) further suggests the promoted adsorption capacity under photothermal assistance condition (Figure 4b). The stronger HMF adsorption capacity will accelerate the HMF oxidation.[59–62]

In situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted at various potentials using an electrolyte containing 50 mM HMF, to gain deeper insights into the variations in electron transfer and reaction kinetics under photothermal assistance. Within the potential window of 1.2–1.55 V, the Blode plots of Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 exhibited a predominant peak in the low-frequency region (10 <sup>2</sup> –101 Hz, Figure 4c, d). This response mainly relates to the non-uniform charge distribution for surface electrochemical reactions, specifically HMF oxidation in this context.[63] As the potential increased from 1.55 V to 1.7 V, the peak gradually shifted to higher frequencies, typically associated with oxidation reactions within the electrode. This shift likely arises from the formation of cobalt (oxy)hydroxide, with cobalt hydroxide believed to participate in HMF oxidation via an indirect reaction route.[64] The fitted interfacial charge

**Figure 4.** (a) Variations of open-circuit potentials of Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 when 50 mM HMF was injected and the laser irradiation applied. (b) CV curves for evaluating the OH adsorption over Co3O4 and D-Co3O4 with and without light irradiation. Bode plots acquired by in situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy for (c) Co3O4 and (d) D-Co3O4. (e) Two oxidation pathways of HMF. In situ ATR-SEIRAS for HMF oxidation over (f) Co3O4, and (g) D- Co3O4.

transfer resistances (Rct) at different potentials for D-Co3O4 and D-Co3O4-3 W are presented in Figure S12. It is noteworthy that the Rct values of D-Co3O4-3 W were consistently lower than those of D-Co3O4 across all studied potentials, indicating accelerated electron transfer and reaction rates for both direct and indirect HMF oxidation routes. There are two potential oxidation pathways of HMF (Figure 4e). The influence of the photothermal effect on the reaction pathways was further investigated by the in-situ surface-enhanced FTIR with the potential scanning from 0.6 V to 1.7 V (the potential interval is 0.1 V), as shown in Figure 4f, g. Besides the peak for HMF at ~1210 cm <sup>1</sup> , which appeared at low potentials and then disappeared due to the consumption on the catalyst surface, signals for the intermediates of HMFCA and FFCA were detected, along with the appearance of product FDCA. This also supports the preferential aldehyde oxidation mechanism, consistent with HPLC results. Notably, this phenomenon remained unchanged upon the introduction of laser irradiation, indicating that the photothermal effect does not alter the oxidation mechanism of HMF. However, it is important to note that the peak intensity of HMF was stronger for D-Co3O4-3 W than for D-Co3O4, particularly at low potentials such as 0.6 and 0.7 V, owing to the higher HMF adsorption capacity mentioned earlier. Furthermore, the disappearance of HMF peaks occurred at a potential of 1.1 V for D-Co3O4-3 W, while it was 1.4 V for D-Co3O4. Meanwhile, the recognizable peak of FDCA appeared at 1.0 V and 1.2 V for D-Co3O4–3 W and D-Co3O4, respectively. These results collectively demonstrate the rapid conversion of HMF over D-Co3O4 with the assistance of the photothermal effect.

The photothermal-assisted HMF oxidation was further integrated with a cathodic CO2 electroreduction reaction in a 0.1 M KHCO3 aqueous solution (Figure 5a). A Ni N/C catalyst was synthesized using a ZIF-8 template (Figure S13), as the Ni Nx site was identified as a highly active catalyst for CO2-to-CO conversion. Aberration-corrected high-angle annular darkfield scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM) demonstrated the high-density dispersion of Ni atoms on the carbon substrate at the atomic level (Figure S14). To meet laser irradiation, an H-type cell equipped with a proton

**Figure 5.** (a) Schematic illustration of the photothermal assisted HMF oxidation paired CO2 electroreduction system. (b) Cathodic CO selectivity, and (c) anodic FDCA selectivity at different cell potentials. (d) The cell potentials for achieving different current densities.

exchange membrane was used for two-electrode measurements, and the electrochemical performances under different cell potentials were analyzed. The gas chromatography and <sup>1</sup> H NMR for the gaseous cathode products and the liquid anode products are presented in Figure S15–16. The primary products for CO2RR are H2 and CO, and the prominent product for anodic HMF oxidation is FDCA. As shown in Figure S17, the total current density increased with the addition of HMF and the application of laser irradiation. For example, at a cell potential of 4.2 V, the current density was 38 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , but it increased to 41 mAcm <sup>2</sup> when 50 mM HMF was added to the anolyte. Upon the laser irradiation, the current density reached 50 and 79 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with and without HMF, respectively. As for the CO selectivity in the cathode, the system with laser irradiation also delivers the best activity, and the FECO higher than 90.0% was obtained across the potential window of 1.7–4.2 V with the highest value of 95.4% at 3.2 V (Figure 5b). Meanwhile, high FDCA selectivity was also achieved in the anode, with the FE ranging from 95.4% to 98.2% (Figure 5c). This means that the FE of CO and FDCA exceeding 90.0% can be attained under a cell voltage as low as 1.7 V in the di-electrode mode. Finally, the cell potential to achieve the target current density (5, 10, and 25 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) was compared (Figure 5d). The potential drops were 0.24, 0.27, and 0.25 V at 5, 10, and 25 mAcm <sup>2</sup> after introducing 50 mM HMF. In the photothermal effect-assisted system, the corresponding potential drop reached 0.74, 0.73, and 0.88 V, realizing the 35.0%, 31.2%, and 26.3% reduction in cell potential compared to the conventional CO2-OER system.

## **Conclusions**

In summary, this study proposes a photothermal effect-assisted strategy to reduce the overpotential of HMF oxidation, which can be coupled with cathodic CO2 electroreduction. By introducing oxygen defects into Co3O4 (D-Co3O4), a stronger photothermal effect was realized. When exposed to NIR irradiation (808 nm), the local temperature of the catalytic electrode increased from room temperature to 175.47°C. Thanks to the excellent photo-to-heat conversion efficiency, the photothermal-assisted D-Co3O4 greatly reduced the overpotential for HMF oxidation. For a target current density of 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in LSV curves, the required potential was 1.37 V, which is 330 mV lower than the pristine Co3O4 electrode. The

intrinsic activity of D-Co3O4 under photothermal assistance surpassed that of counterparts without laser irradiation. Mechanism analysis disclosed that the laser irradiation did not alter the reaction pathway of HMF oxidation, namely the preferential oxidation of the aldehyde group into the carboxyl group, as evidenced by the observed intermediate of HMFCA. The timedependent OCP variation and in situ EIS illustrated that the obtained excellent activity primarily stemmed from the enhanced adsorption capacity of HMF, and the fast interfacial transfer resistance toward HMF oxidation and the surface formation of cobalt (oxy)hydroxide, thus facilitating both direct and indirect oxidation routes for HMF. Finally, when integrated with a CO2 electroreduction reaction over a Ni N/C catalyst, the system achieved a selectivity exceeding 90.0% for both cathodic CO and anodic FDCA under a cell potential as low as 1. 7 V. The lower cell potentials were required for all target current densities ranging from 5 to 25 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . This work provides a novel approach for designing an energy-efficient CO2 electrolytic system, with potential applications in various electrochemical processes.

# **Experimental Section**

#### **Materials**

Cobalt nitrate hexahydrate (Co(NO3)2 \* 6H2O, Aladdin reagent, 99.99% metals basis), Nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni- (NO3)2 \* 6H2O, Sinopharm chemical reagent Co., Ltd, 98%), Zinc nitrate (Zn(NO3)2 \* 6H2O, Sinopharm chemical reagent Co., Ltd, 99%), 2-Methylimidazole (C4H6N2(2-MIM), Aladdin reagent, 98%), Sodium borohydride (NaBH4, Sinopharm chemical reagent Co., Ltd, 98%), Potassium hydroxide (KOH, Aladdin reagent, 99.99% metals basis), 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (C6H6O3(HMF), Adamas, 99%), methanol (CH3OH, *>*99.8%), 2,5- Furandicarboxylic Acid (C6H4O5(FDCA), Adamas, 99%), 5-Formylfuran-2-carboxylic Acid (C6H4O4(FFCA), Adamas, *>*98%), 5- Hydroxymethyl-Furan-2-Carboxylic Acid (C6H6O4(HMFCA), Adamas, *>*98%), De-ionized water with a specific resistance of *>*18.2 MΩcm <sup>1</sup> was obtained by reverse osmosis followed by ion-exchange and filtration (RFD 250NB, Toyo Seisakusho Kaisha, Ltd., Japan). All chemicals were purchased and used without further purification.

## **Synthesis of Co3O4**

Co3O4 was derived from ZIF-67. Specifically, 4 mmol of cobalt nitrate hexahydrate was dissolved in 50 mL of methanol, and 8 mmol of 2-methylimidazole was dissolved in another 50 mL of methanol. The cobalt nitrate solution was then quickly added to the 2-methylimidazole solution under magnetic stirring. The mixture was allowed to stand for 24 hours at room temperature. The resulting purple solid product (ZIF-67) was filtered, washed several times with absolute ethanol, and dried under vacuum at 60°C for 12 hours. The as-prepared ZIF-67 precursors were then placed in a muffle furnace, heated to 350°C at a rate of 15°C min <sup>1</sup> , and maintained at this temperature for 4 hours in the air. The furnace was then allowed to cool naturally to room temperature, yielding a black powder. This product was designated as Co3O4.

#### **Synthesis of D-Co3O4**

D-Co3O4 was prepared using the sodium borohydride reduction method. Specifically, the as-prepared Co3O4 was added to a 1 mol L <sup>1</sup> NaBH4 solution and soaked for 1 hour. The resulting product was then centrifuged, washed several times with deionized water, and dried under vacuum at 60°C for 12 hours. The obtained black powder was designated as D-Co3O4.

#### **Synthesis of Ni N C**

Ni N C was derived from Ni-doped ZIF-8. Specifically, 0.988 mmol of nickel nitrate hexahydrate and 0.988 mmol of zinc nitrate were dissolved in 30 mL of methanol, and 7.904 mmol of 2-methylimidazole was dissolved in another 30 mL of methanol. The metal salt solution was quickly added to the 2-methylimidazole solution under magnetic stirring, and the mixture was stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. The resulting light blue solid product (Ni-ZIF-8) was filtered, washed several times with methanol, and dried under vacuum at 60°C for 12 hours.

The as-prepared ZIF-8 precursors were first heated in a muffle furnace to 280°C at a rate of 3°C min <sup>1</sup> and maintained at this temperature for 1 hour in the air. The furnace was then allowed to cool naturally to room temperature, resulting in a yellow powder. This yellow powder was subsequently heated in a tube furnace to 1000°C at a rate of 3 °C min <sup>1</sup> and maintained at this temperature for 4 hours in an argon atmosphere. The furnace was then allowed to cool naturally to room temperature, yielding the catalyst designated as Ni N C.

#### **Characterization**

The powder X-ray diffraction using Cu Kα radiation (D/max 2550 VB X-ray diffraction) was used to characterize the phase identification. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was carried out by ECSALAB250Xi spectrometer with an Al Kα X-ray radiation for excitation, and the spectra were calibrated with the C1s peak at 284.6 eV. Using field emission scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Hitachi S-4800) and transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM, Titan G2 60–300) to determine the morphologies of the samples. The DXRI Raman Microscope (Thermo Fisher) using a 532 nm laser as the light source was used to obtain Raman spectra. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy was carried out on an X-band Bruker EMX-10/12 apparatus at 76.2 K, with the center field, static field, and sweep width of 3510, 3460, and 200 G, respectively. The N2 adsorption-desorption isotherm (JW-BK200 C, Beijing JWGB Sci.& Tech. Co. Ltd.) was used to analyze the specific surface area at 76.2 K, and the pore size was calculated by the adsorption branch of the isotherms based on the nonlocal density functional theory (NLDFT). The Fourier transform infrared spectrometer (Nicolet iS50), coupling with an in-situ electrochemical reaction cell (SPEC I, Yuanfang Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China) was used to collect the in-situ electrochemical FTIR spectroscopic. The catalyst ink was dropped on an Au filmcoated ATR Si prism, and Ag/AgCl (saturated KCl) and carbon rod were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. The FTIR spectra were collected by constant potential electrolysis at the same time with increasing applied potential.

#### **Electrochemical Measurements**

The electrochemical measurements for HMFOR in this study were conducted using a CHI 760e electrochemical analyzer in a conventional three-electrode system. This system comprised a nickel foam electrode coated with the catalyst, an Ag/AgCl reference electrode (saturated KCl), and a carbon rod counter electrode. The potentials were converted to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale using the Nernst equation:

$$E_{RHE} = E_{(Ag/AgCl)} + 0.059 \times pH + 0.205 \tag{1}$$

To evaluate the electrochemical performance, a catalyst ink was prepared by mixing 5 mg of catalyst with 500 μL of ethanol, 450 μL of water, and 50 μL of Nafion solution. This mixture was sonicated for 30 minutes to achieve a homogeneous solution. The catalyst ink was then drop-cast onto a nickel foam substrate (1 cm<sup>2</sup> ) and dried at 70°C for 12 hours. The preparation method for the cathodes in coupled systems followed a similar procedure. The mass loading of the catalyst was 1 mgcm <sup>2</sup> .

The electrolyte used was 0.1 M KOH, with or without 50 mmol HMF, and was saturated with high-purity Ar (99.999%) for at least 30 minutes before testing. For experiments involving a laser with 3 W power, the distance between the light source and the working electrode was 10 cm. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were collected at a scan rate of 10 mVs 1 . Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were conducted over a frequency range from 0.1 Hz to 100,000 Hz.

The OH adsorption analysis was performed using cyclic voltammetry with a three-electrode system. The reference electrode was an Ag/AgCl electrode, and a Pt mesh (1 cm2 ) was used as the counter electrode. The electrolyte was a nitrogensaturated 0.1 M KOH aqueous solution. Oxidation sweeps from 0.85 to 1.6 V (vs RHE) was carried out to evaluate OH adsorption. All scans were performed at 10 mVs 1 , and the current density normalized by geometric area was recorded.

The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was obtained by the capacitive current associated with double-layer charging (*Cdl*) in a potential window without the Faradaic process. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) was performed at scan rates of 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 mVs 1 . The ECSA was calculated as the following equation:

$$ECSA = \frac{C_{dl}}{C_s} \tag{2}$$

where *CS*is the double-layer capacitance for the flat electrode (20–60 μF cm <sup>2</sup> , 40 μF cm <sup>2</sup> was chosen in this work).

#### **Product Detection**

HMF oxidation products were analyzed using an HPLC system (Agilent 1200, Agilent Technologies, CA, USA) equipped with a Hypersil BDS C18 column (5 μm particle size, 4.6×250 mm). Specifically, 20 μL of the electrolyte was sampled after potentiostatic electrolysis, diluted to 2 mL with deionized water, and then analyzed by HPLC. The UV detector was set to a wavelength of 265 nm. The mobile phase comprised methanol (mobile phase A) and a 5 mM ammonium formate aqueous solution (mobile phase B), with a flow rate of 1.0 mLmin <sup>1</sup> .

The HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faradaic efficiency were calculated as follows:

HMF conversion (%) = 
$$\frac{n \text{ (HMF consumed)}}{n \text{ (HMF initial)}} \times 100$$
 (3)

$$FDCA \ yield = \frac{n \ (FDCA \ formed)}{n \ (HMF \ initial)} \times 100$$
 (4)

Faradaic efficiency = 
$$\frac{n (FDCA \text{ formed}) \times F \times z}{C} \times 100$$
 (5)

where *n* is the number of moles of reactant calculated from the concentration measured by HPLC, *F* is the Faraday constant (96,485 C mol <sup>1</sup> ), *z* is the number of electrons transferred to FDCA (z=6), and *C* represents the total charge.

For the CO2RR coupling system, the gas phase products were analyzed through an online gas chromatograph (Shimidzu, Model 2014) equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD, for H2 detection), and two flame ionization detectors coupled with a methanizer (for CO and C2<sup>+</sup> chemicals). The faradaic efficiency of CO and H2 were calculated as follows:

$$FE = \frac{Q_{CO/H_2}}{Q_{total}} \times 100 = \frac{n_{CO/H_2} \times F \times z}{C} \times 100$$
 (6)

where *nCO<sup>=</sup>H*<sup>2</sup> represents the mole numbers of CO or H2, *z*is the number of electrons transferred to CO or H2 (z =2), *F* is the Faradaic constant (96485 C mol <sup>1</sup> ), and *C* represents the total charge consumed by the working electrode.

## **Supporting Information Summary**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or the authors.

# *Acknowledgments*

This work was financially supported by the Intergovernmental International Science and Technology Innovation Cooperation Program of the National Key Research and Development Program (Grant No. 2022YFE0120200), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 21872046, 52072118, and 52102041), and the Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province (Grant No. 2020JJ4174, 2022JJ40073).

# *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no interest conflict. They have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** Photothermal effect **·** Biomass oxidation **·** CO2electroreduction **·** Pairing synthesis **·** Cell potential

- [1] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11475)* **2012**, *488*, 294.
- [2] S. Zhang, Q. Fan, R. Xia, T. J. Meyer, *Acc. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.9b00496) Res.* **2020**, *53*, 255.
- [3] W. P. Ni, Y. J. Guan, H. J. Chen, Y. Zhang, S. Y. Wang, S. G. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202303233.
- [4] M. B. Ross, P. De Luna, Y. F. Li, C. T. Dinh, D. Kim, P. Yang, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0306-7)* **2019**, *2*, 648.
- [5] S. H. Chen, Z. D. Zhang, W. J. Jiang, S. S. Zhang, J. X. Zhu, L. Q. Wang, H. H. Ou, S. Zaman, L. Tan, P. Zhu, E. R. Zhang, P. Jiang, Y. Q. Su, D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03875) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 12807.
- [6] H. J. Zhu, D. H. Si, H. Guo, Z. Chen, R. Cao, Y. B. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1479.
- [7] H. Guo, D. H. Si, H. J. Zhu, Z. A. Chen, R. Cao, Y. B. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202319472.
- [8] H. H. Zhang, C. Xu, X. W. Zhan, Y. Yu, K. F. Zhang, Q. Q. Luo, S. Gao, J. L. Yang, Y. Xie, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6029.
- [9] Y. K. Li, K. F. Zhang, Y. Yu, X. W. Zhan, J. J. Gui, J. Y. Xue, X. Jin, S. Gao, Y. Xie, *Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CC04780A)* **2022**, *58*, 387.
- [10] W. Zhao, M. Ding, P. Yang, Q. Wang, K. Zhang, X. Zhan, Y. Yu, Q. Luo, S. Gao, J. Yang, Y. Xie, *EES [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EY00029F)* **2023**, *1*, 36.
- [11] T. Z. Wang, X. J. Cao, L. F. Jiao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202213328.
- [12] S. Verma, S. Lu, P. J. A. Kenis, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0374-6)* **2019**, *4*, 466.
- [13] D. Li, J. F. Yang, J. H. Lian, J. Q. Yan, S. Z. Liu, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.10.031) Chem.* **2023**, *77*, [406](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2022.10.031).
- [14] W. G. Ma, H. Wang, W. Yu, X. M. Wang, Z. Q. Xu, X. Zong, C. Li, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201713029) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201713029) Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 3473.
- [15] X. F. Wei, Y. Li, L. S. Chen, J. L. Shi, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202012066) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 3148.
- [16] T. F. Li, Y. Cao, J. F. He, C. P. Berlinguette, *ACS Cent. Sci.* **[2017](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscentsci.7b00207)**, *3*, 778.
- [17] L. Y. Zeng, Y. J. Chen, M. Z. Sun, Q. Z. Huang, K. A. Sun, J. Y. Ma, J. Li, H. Tan, M. G. Li, Y. Pan, Y. Q. Liu, M. C. Luo, B. L. Huang, S. J. Guo, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02570) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.3c02570) Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17577.
- [18] S. F. Xie, H. C. Fu, L. Y. Chen, Y. W. Li, K. Shen, *Sci. China [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-023-1666-4)* **2023**, *66*, [2141.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-023-1666-4)
- [19] R. P. Luo, Y. Y. Li, N. Wang, R. Y. Zhong, L. X. Xing, L. Zhu, Y. C. Wang, L. Du, S. Y. Ye, *J. Phys. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.2c08946) C* **2023**, *127*, 4967.
- [20] Y. K. Song, W. F. Xie, Y. J. Song, H. Li, S. J. Li, S. Jiang, J. Y. Lee, M. F. Shao, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2022**, *312*, [121400.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121400)
- [21] Y. Sun, J. Wang, Y. F. Qi, W. J. Li, C. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2200957.

- [22] L. Guo, X. X. Zhang, L. Gan, L. Pan, C. X. Shi, Z. F. Huang, X. W. Zhang, J. J. Zou, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2205540.
- [23] Z. H. Yang, B. L. Zhang, C. Y. Yan, Z. M. Xue, T. C. Mu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122590) B* **2023**, *330*, [122590](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122590).
- [24] L. Y. Lu, C. Y. Wen, H. Y. Wang, Y. H. Li, J. C. Wu, C. G. Wang, *J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.05.001)* **[2023](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.05.001)**, *424*, 1.
- [25] T. Wu, Z. A. Xu, X. L. Wang, M. J. Luo, Y. Xia, X. C. Zhang, J. T. Li, J. Liu, J. C. Wang, H. L. Wang, F. Q. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2023**, *323*, [122126.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122126)
- [26] C. Y. Zheng, S. Zhang, Z. X. Li, L. Y. Xiao, M. N. Song, J. Du, J. Guo, X. Q. Gao, Y. W. Peng, Z. Y. Tang, M. T. Zhao, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2301331.
- [27] B. L. Zhang, Z. H. Yang, C. Y. Yan, Z. M. Xue, T. C. Mu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207236.
- [28] W. H. Lie, Y. W. Yang, J. A. Yuwono, C. Tsounis, M. Zubair, J. Wright, L. Thomsen, P. Kumar, N. Bedford, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA08306J) Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 5527.
- [29] S. Liu, S. Dou, J. Meng, Y. T. Liu, Y. Z. Liu, H. P. Yu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122709) B.* **2023**, *331*, [122709](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122709).
- [30] S. X. Yang, X. P. Xiang, Z. Y. He, W. Y. Zhong, C. H. Jia, Z. H. Gong, N. Zhang, S. J. Zhao, Y. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *457*, [141344](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.141344).
- [31] C. F. Liu, X. R. Shi, K. H. Yue, P. J. Wang, K. Zhan, X. Y. Wang, B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211177.
- [32] Y. F. Zhou, T. J. A. Slater, X. L. Luo, Y. Shen, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122218) B.* **2023**, *324*, [122218.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122218)
- [33] H. L. Wang, J. W. Zhang, S. Y. Tao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *444*, [136693.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2022.136693)
- [34] X. Y. Chai, K. Y. Jiang, J. Y. Wang, Z. H. Ren, X. Liu, L. W. Chen, X. D. Zhuang, T. F. Wang, *ChemSusChem* **2022**, *15*, e202200863.
- [35] R. P. Luo, Y. Y. Li, L. X. Xing, R. Y. Zhong, Z. Y. Qian, G. P. Yin, Y. C. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2022**, *311*, [121357](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121357).
- [36] Z. W. Yang, J. M. Chen, L. Q. Qiu, W. J. Xie, L. N. He, *Catal. Sci. [Technol.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY01195F)* **[2022](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY01195F)**, *12*, 5495.
- [37] J. H. Bi, Q. G. Zhu, W. W. Guo, P. S. Li, S. Q. Jia, J. Y. Liu, J. Ma, J. L. Zhang, Z. M. Liu, B. X. Han, *Acs [Sustain.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c02117) Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 8043.
- [38] Z. W. Yang, J. M. Chen, Z. L. Liang, W. J. Xie, B. Zhao, L. N. He, *ChemCatChem* **2023**, *15*, e202201321.
- [39] S. Q. Li, S. B. Wang, Y. H. Wang, J. H. He, K. Li, Y. J. Xu, M. X. Wang, S. Y. Zhao, X. N. Li, X. Zhong, J. G. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214488.
- [40] F. Ye, S. Zhang, Q. Cheng, Y. Long, D. Liu, R. Paul, Y. Fang, Y. Su, L. Qu, L. Dai, C. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2040.
- [41] Z. H. Zhang, S. Liu, Z. Wu, X. Y. Chen, J. G. Wang, Y. J. Gao, S. Wang, F. R. Tao, G. Q. Lv, *Green [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3GC01420G)* **2023**, *25*, 5404.
- [42] X. G. Gong, Z. Z. Jiang, W. Zeng, C. Hu, X. F. Luo, W. Lei, C. L. Yuan, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c03359) Lett.* **[2022](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.2c03359)**, *22*, 9411.
- [43] C. Niether, S. Faure, A. Bordet, J. Deseure, M. Chatenet, J. Carrey, B. Chaudret, A. Rouet, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-018-0132-1)* **2018**, *3*, 476.
- [44] F. L. Meng, G. Yilmaz, T. P. Ding, M. M. Gao, G. W. Ho, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903605.
- [45] Y. A. Chang, Z. Y. Ma, X. Y. Lu, S. S. Wang, J. C. Bao, Y. Liu, C. Ma, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202310163.
- [46] Y. X. Lu, T. Y. Liu, C. L. Dong, C. M. Yang, L. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, Y. F. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Q. Zou, S. Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185.
- [47] L. Lan, Z. K. Shi, Q. Zhang, Y. Z. Li, Y. Yang, S. W. Wu, X. J. Zhao, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA01362D) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA01362D) A* **2018**, *6*, 7194.
- [48] Y. J. Gu, J. Ding, X. Tong, H. Yao, R. Y. Yang, Q. Zhong, *J. CO2 Util.* **[2022](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcou.2022.102003)**, *61*, [102003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcou.2022.102003).
- [49] H. H. Chen, M. Yang, S. Tao, G. W. Chen, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2017.03.038) B.* **2017**, *209*, 648.
- [50] X. B. Miao, L. Wu, Y. Lin, X. Y. Yuan, J. Y. Zhao, W. S. Yan, S. M. Zhou, L. Shi, *Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8CC08817A)* **2019**, *55*, 1442.
- [51] L. H. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. S. Yang, M. R. Li, Y. Jia, X. D. Yao, Z. H. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606793.
- [52] J. Y. Zheng, Y. H. Lyu, C. Xie, R. L. Wang, L. Tao, H. B. Wu, H. J. Zhou, S. P. Jiang, S. Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1801773.
- [53] Y. Lou, L. Wang, Z. Y. Zhao, Y. H. Zhang, Z. G. Zhang, G. Z. Lu, Y. Guo, Y. L. Guo, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2013.06.007) B* **2014**, *146*, 43.
- [54] Z. L. Jiang, G. L. Xu, Z. Yu, T. H. Zhou, W. K. Shi, C. S. Luo, H. J. Zhou, L. B. Chen, W. J. Sheng, M. X. Zhou, L. Cheng, R. S. Assary, S. G. Sun, K. Amine, H. Sun, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *64*, [103896](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2019.103896).
- [55] B. J. Jin, Y. C. Li, J. N. Wang, F. Y. Meng, S. S. Cao, B. He, S. R. Jia, Y. Wang, Z. Li, X. Q. Liu, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1903847.
- [56] B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. J. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [13639.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07127)
- [57] P. L. Zhang, X. Sheng, X. Y. Chen, Z. Y. Fang, J. Jiang, M. Wang, F. S. Li, L. Z. Fan, Y. S. Ren, B. B. Zhang, B. J. J. Timmer, M. S. G. Ahlquist, L. C. Sun, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201903936) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 9155.
- [58] N. Heidary, N. Kornienko, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0SC00136H) Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 1798.
- [59] Y. P. He, B. T. Zhu, F. Wang, J. Xiong, M. A. Akram, L. Feng, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA01609A) Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, [14284.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3TA01609A)

- [60] B. Y. Xia, G. J. Wang, S. S. Cui, J. Y. Guo, H. Xu, Z. J. Liu, S. Q. Zang, *[Chin.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2022.107810) Chem. Lett.* **2023**, *34*, [107810](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cclet.2022.107810).
- [61] G. Zhao, G. Hai, P. Zhou, Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, B. Peng, W. Xia, X. Huang, G. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213170.
- [62] P. Zhou, X. S. Lv, S. S. Tao, J. C. Wu, H. F. Wang, X. X. Wei, T. H. Wang, B. Zhou, Y. X. Lu, T. Frauenheim, X. Z. Fu, S. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204089.
- [63] W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Z. H. Xiao, Z. X. Wei, S. Q. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. M. Ma, S. Y. Wang, *[Chem-Us](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.07.022)* **2020**, *6*, [2974](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.07.022).
- [64] Y. X. Lu, T. Y. Liu, Y. C. Huang, L. Zhou, Y. Y. Li, W. Chen, L. Yang, B. Zhou, Y. D. Wu, Z. J. Kong, Z. F. Huang, Y. F. Li, C. L. Dong, S. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c00174)* **2022**, *12*, 4242.

Manuscript received: June 13, 2024 Revised manuscript received: July 30, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: August 8, 2024 Version of record online: October 10, 2024