---
source: Huang 等 - 2025 - Modulated D‐Electron Transfer in Hypervalent Cobalt‐Based Electrocatalyst for Efficient 5‐Hydroxymet.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.132s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:38:49.914965Z
---

# **Modulated D-Electron Transfer in Hypervalent Cobalt-Based Electrocatalyst for Efficient 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Electrooxidation**

*Yuhui Huang, Yehan Tao,\* Zhenghao Jia,\* Chenglong Fu, Jinwen Hu, Jian Du, Jie Lu, Yanna Lv, and Haisong Wang\**

**5-hydroxymethylfurfural (5-HMF) electrooxidation is important in producing biomass-based valuable chemicals, whereas the preferential adsorption of only hydroxymethyl or formyl on a specific catalyst limits the reaction efficiency. Herein, the electrochemical synthesis of copper incorporated CoOOH electrocatalyst is reported that can execute the synchronized adsorption of both groups. The catalyst works under a low applied potential of 1.36 VRHE, achieving 100% HMF conversion, 100% furan dicarboxylic acid yield and 96.8% Faraday efficiency, with good stability, repeatability and variety in catalyzing furfural electrooxidation to furoic acid. This superior performance is attributed to Cu incorporation that reduces the bandgap of CoOOH by d-orbital electrons contributing more significantly near the Fermi level and adjusts the morphology through constructing smaller and more compact particles over granular or sheet-like motifs. The operando Raman characterization and theoretical calculations verify a strong interaction between 5-HMF and the Cu-integrated CoOOH catalyst, which is ascribed to the altered local charge density regions by Cu species and enables stable adsorption of both hydroxymethyl and formyl functional groups. This work lays foundation for a versatile and energy-efficient strategy for biorefinery, enabling seamless integration with green electricity-driven hydrogen production, while accelerating advancements in renewable energy and green chemistry.**

Y. Huang, Y. Tao, C. Fu, J. Hu, J. Du, J. Lu, Y. Lv, H. Wang Liaoning Key Lab of Lignocellulose Chemistry and BioMaterials Liaoning Collaborative Innovation Center for Lignocellulosic Biorefinery Department of Light Industry and Chemical Engineering Dalian Polytechnic University

Dalian 116034, China E-mail: [taoyh1818@dlpu.edu.cn;](mailto:taoyh1818@dlpu.edu.cn)[wanghs@dlpu.edu.cn](mailto:wanghs@dlpu.edu.cn)

Z. Jia

Division of Energy Research Resources Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics Chinese Academy of Sciences 457 Zhongshan Road, Dalian 116023, China

E-mail: [Jiazh@dicp.ac.cn](mailto:Jiazh@dicp.ac.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202501476>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202501476**

### **1. Introduction**

With the rapid depletion of non-renewable resources, applying renewable biomass with rich sources and a green economy to produce valuable chemicals as alternative of petroleum-based chemicals has attracted more and more attention.[\[1,2\]](#page-9-0) For example, the cellulose-derived compound, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) to 2, 5 furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) showed great industrial potential.[\[3–5\]](#page-9-0) FDCA was recognized as one of the 12 highly valuable biomass-derived platform compounds, which can substitute terephthalic acid in the production of polyester products in biomedicine and degradable plastics.[\[6,7\]](#page-10-0)

Compared with conventional thermochemical HMF oxidation reaction (HM-FOR), electrochemical routes display obvious advantages. The oxidation of HMF at the anode can be combined with hydrogen evolution (HER) at the cathode to produce both chemicals and fuels at the same time. Compared to the anode electrolysis of water to make oxygen, the thermodynamic conditions of HMFOR are more favorable, requiring lower applied potential and meanwhile producing valuable chemicals as FDCA.[\[8\]](#page-10-0) Additionally,

the reaction condition of electrochemistry is mild, avoiding the harsh requirements of reaction temperature and pressure. The electrocatalysis process can be adjusted simply by controlling the voltage or current and after reaction, the electrocatalyst can be easily separated and collected.[[9–11\]](#page-10-0)

At present, transition metal-based materials are the most widely used electrocatalysts, and their oxides, sulfides, phosphates, hydroxides have been developed as electrocatalysts for HMFOR,[\[12–15\]](#page-10-0) among which cobalt-based catalysts have been widely concerned.[\[16,17\]](#page-10-0) The defective cobalt oxide hydrate was successfully prepared by Zhong et al. via room-temperature reductive treatment. This material had abundant oxygen vacancy, high Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Co3<sup>+</sup> ratios and porosity. The optimal catalyst achieved FDCA yield of 98% and a Faraday efficiency of 83% within 200 min at 1.52 VRHE. [\[18\]](#page-10-0) Song et al. prepared Co3O4 rich in oxygen vacancies by adsorption and pyrolysis method, also showing

excellent catalytic activity for HMFOR.[\[19\]](#page-10-0) Although cobalt-based electrocatalysts have achieved excellent performance in HM-FOR, the simultaneous adsorption of hydroxymethyl and formyl groups is still difficult to realize and limits its catalytic efficiency.

The catalytic reactivity of cobalt-based catalysts can be further optimized through introducing a second metal (such as Ni, Cu, Fe, etc.). On the one hand, the electronic structure of the catalysts can be regulated. For example, Fe-doped Co hydroxides can alter the d-orbital electron density, making the electronic structure at active sites more favorable for oxygen adsorption and activation.[\[20\]](#page-10-0) On the other hand, the conductivity can be increased. For example, Ni and Cu have better conductivity than Co, so their introduction can enhance the overall conductivity of the composite material, reducing resistance losses in electrochemical reactions and thus increasing the reaction rate. Moreover, the surface area and the number of active sites can also be altered by the second metal. For example, adding Cu may encourage the formation of nanostructures or porous structures, thus exposing more active sites for catalyzing the reaction.[\[21\]](#page-10-0)

By carefully selecting the second metal, the electrochemical activity of Co-based catalyst can be significantly enhanced through a synergistic effect. Co-Ni bimetallic oxides exhibited excellent electrocatalytic properties in the OER, with over-potential that is better than mono-metal oxide-based catalysts and comparable to commercial RuO2 catalysts.[\[22\]](#page-10-0) Another reported Co-Ni bimetallic oxide prepared by electro-deposition method achieved 100% HMF conversion, 99% FDCA yield and 99.2% Faraday efficiency at 1.38VRHE in HMFOR.[\[23\]](#page-10-0) Ni2.5Co5C2O4 bimetallic catalyst achieved highly efficient oxygen evolution by optimizing electronic structure and interfacial charge transfer ability.[\[24\]](#page-10-0) Li et al. prepared copper-regulated cobalt carbonate hydroxide for electrooxidation of HMF at 1.42 VRHE, achieving HMF conversion of 99.6%, FDCA selectivity of 99.9%, and Faraday efficiency of 98.9%.[\[25\]](#page-10-0)

Herein, for improving the reactivity of Co-based catalysts in effectively catalyzing the transformation of hydroxymethyl and formyl groups in HMFOR, we proposed a simple strategy of introducing Cu species through co-electro-deposition method. The limited catalytic activity of Co species will be improved by Cu species through the following aspects. The valent state of Co was more prone to forming hypervalent state species. The electronic structure was altered toward benefiting the HMFOR reaction through enhancing d-orbital electron transport. The conductivity was enhanced by the incorporation of Cu species. The morphology was changed from unstable two co-existed morphologies into more compact particles. The catalyst was simple to produce and has an outstanding catalytic effect, enabling the simultaneous production of high-value chemicals and hydrogen.

## **2. Results**

#### **2.1. Electrochemical Property Measurement**

The Co, Cu and CoCu electrode materials were grown at the cathode on nickel foam via an electro-deposition method using single metal of bimetal precursors in electrolyte as shown in **Figure 1**[A.](#page-2-0) The obtained material was then activated at the anode by electrooxidation in KOH electrolyte to afford the final working electrode for HMFOR to produce FDCA as shown in Figure [1B.](#page-2-0) [\[26\]](#page-10-0) First, the electrochemical property measurements were performed. LSV tests in KOH electrolyte solution with and without HMF were carried out to evaluate the electrochemical behavior of different prepared electrodes as shown in Figure [1C.](#page-2-0)

When using Co electrode in KOH electrolyte without HMF, the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) was tested to occur at an onset potential of 1.50 VRHE. Upon increasing the applied potential beyond ≈1.60 VRHE, vigorous bubble release was observed at the anode. When employing CoCu electrode in KOH electrolyte in the absence of HMF, the onset potential decreased to 1.39 VRHE, indicating the potential at which an electrochemical reaction started to occur on this electrode. It should be noted that there was a distinct rise between 1.35 VRHE and 1.5 VRHE on CoCu or Cu electrode in KOH, which was speculated to be related to the transition of different Cu states. The vigorous bubble evolution occurred when the potential surpassed 1.49 VRHE, indicating the starting of the OER reaction. It could be speculated that the electrocatalytic activity of bimetallic CoCu electrode was prior compared to that of single Co or single Cu electrode. When 10 mM HMF was added into the KOH electrolyte, the onset potential of CoCu electrode further decreased from 1.39 VRHE to 1.23 VRHE and, along with, the current density was rapidly amplified within 1.30 VRHE, which indicated its ability in effectively catalyzing HM-FOR at a low applied potential. And there was an oxidation peak between 1.45 VRHE and 1.65 VRHE, which may be related to the oxidation of HMF.[\[25,27\]](#page-10-0)

For further confirming the catalytic advantage of CoCu electrode, more electrochemical tests were performed. As shown in Figure S1A–C (Supporting Information), CV curves at different scan rates were collected. The ECSA of different electrodes was calculated by analyzing the CV cycles in the non-Faraday region. The bimetallic CoCu electrocatalyst showed a higher value (125.96 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) than single metal Co (94.57 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) and Cu (83.43 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2) electrodes as shown in Figure [1D,](#page-2-0) suggesting that the CoCu electrode had a larger active surface area, which promoted electrochemical reactions. The Tafel slope of CoCu (83.88 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) was the lowest, followed by those of Co at 110.12 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and Cu at 155.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> as shown in Figure [1E.](#page-2-0) This suggested that CoCu electrode enabled more efficient electron transfer and had superior catalytic activity in anode oxidation reaction.[\[28\]](#page-10-0)

Next, in situ EIS was measured under the potential gradient of 1.2-1.6 VRHE. Nyquist diagrams of the three catalysts at 1 M KOH were collected to evaluate their resistance as shown in Figure [1F](#page-2-0) and Figure S1D (Supporting Information). The arc size of the EIS diagram represented the charge transfer resistance, CoCu electrode showed a standard semicircle, and the magnified diagram of Co under the same conditions also showed a tendency to approach the semicircle, while Cu did not because of the good conductivity of Cu species. The result showed that the incorporation of Cu species in CoCu electrode helped decrease the charge transfer resistance and endow faster and easier electron transfer.

When the measurement was taken in KOH electrolyte without HMF, the Bode slot showed a peak at 0.01-1 Hz under the potential of 1.5–1.6 VRHE attributed to OER as shown in **Figure <sup>2</sup>**[B.](#page-3-0) On addition of HMF in the electrolyte, as shown in Figure [2C](#page-3-0) the initial peak potential dropped to a lower potential of 1.25 VRHE, indicating that the required potential of HMFOR was much lower than that of OER, which was consistent with the previous LSV

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** A) Schematic illustration of the electrochemical deposition process; B) The scheme for the process of HMFOR and OER over CoCu electrode; C) LSV curves, D) Electrochemical surface area (ECSA), E) Tafel slopes and f) Nyquist plot of different electrodes.

curve trend. However, the peak for the curves of 1.4 VRHE (green line) and 1.45 VRHE (pink line) lost and the peaks for curves of ≥1.50 VRHE started to show, which was related to the competition of HMFOR and OER reactions starting from this potential value.[\[29,30\]](#page-10-0)

Based on the above electrochemical property test results, the combination of Co and Cu in CoCu electrode likely generated a synergistic effect to improve the electrochemical activity in HM-FOR by demonstrating larger active surface area, faster electron transport, higher conductivity and lower onset potential for HM-FOR reaction to avoid competition from OER.

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Oxidation of 5-HMF**

The constant potential HMFOR by Co, Cu and CoCu electrocatalysts were carried out, which might go through two routes toward the formation of FDCA as shown in Figure [2A.](#page-3-0) During the constant potential electrooxidation process, the transferred charge was accumulated over the reaction process. The HMF concentration reduced as its conversion and the amount of desired FDCA product increased associated with the reaction time.

First, the reaction was conducted in KOH electrolyte at 1.38 VRHE for 90 min. According to the LSV and Bode Plot result, the competition OER against HMFOR should not occur at such low voltage. As displayed in Figure [2D,](#page-3-0) the conversions of HMF over Co and CoCu electrocatalysts were similar (53.8% and 54.4%, respectively), whereas the yield of FDCA over Co (12.1%) was only half of that over CoCu electrocatalyst (24.4%). The yield of intermediate HMFCA over Co (13%) was higher than that over CoCu catalyst (9.7%). No peaks for other intermediates like DFF or FFCA were detected by HPLC. It should be noted that in the same time slot, the conversion of HMF and yield of FDCA over single Cu electrocatalyst were 19.6% and only 1.1%, respectively. These results indicated that the incorporation of Cu did not

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** A) Schematic illustration for the oxidation path of HMF converting into FDCA; Bode plots of CoCu in B) 1 m KOH and C) 1 m KOH with 5 mm HMF; D) Electrocatalytic performance of Co, Cu, and CoCu electrodes at 1.38 VRHE for 90 min; E) Electrocatalytic performance of CoCu electrode at different voltages for 10 h; F) The time-course of HMF, intermediated and product at 1.36 VRHE using 1 m KOH with 5 mm HMF as the electrolyte; G) The passed charge-course of FDCA yield and faraday efficiency at 1.36 VRHE in 1 m KOH with 5 mm HMF as the electrolyte; H) Comparison of color of the reaction solution before and after HMFOR.

promote the conversion of HMF, whereas when acting as the auxiliary catalytic role for Co electrocatalyst, it can significantly enhance the transformation of the intermediates HMFCA or FFCA to form FDCA.

The metal leaching in this process was also examined. For single-metal Co or Cu electrode, the Co or Cu leaching was 1.455 and 33.377 mg L<sup>−</sup>1, whereas in bimetallic CoCu electrode, both the Co and Cu leaching was reduced to 0.122 and 7.235 mg L<sup>−</sup>1. This result clearly indicated that the combination of Co and Cu can effectively enhance the stability of the electrode, especially for Co species, as its leaching decreased 92%.

After selecting CoCu material as the optimum electrocatalyst, for further benefiting the FDCA production, the constant potential for HMFOR was optimized by conducting the experiment at different applied voltages in the range of 1.32-1.40 VRHE for 10 h. As shown in Figure 2E, under all tested potential, the HMF conversion could reach 100%. With the increase of voltage from 1.32 to 1.36 VRHE, the yield of FDCA increased from 77.2% to 100%, and the Faraday efficiency increased from 77.9% to 96.8%. Further increase in the applied voltage would lead to a drop in the yield of FDCA and the Faraday efficiency. This result indicated that when the voltage was ≤ 1.36 VRHE, the anodic reaction was dominant by the HMFOR, therefore the increase in the voltage was conducive to the improvement of yield of FDCA and Faraday efficiency, while when the voltage was higher than 1.36 VRHE, the OER reaction was triggered, leading to the decrease in Faraday efficiency. This result was consistent with the result obtained from the Bode

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** A) Electrocatalytic effect of CoCu electrode for different concentrations of HMF; B) The cyclic HMFOR at 1.36 VRHE for 10 h; C) Catalytic performance of CoCu electrode with furfural as reactant at 1.36 VRHE for 10 h and comparison of color of the reaction solution before and after furfural electrooxidation reaction; D,E) Comparison of the result of our work with references.

diagram in Figure [2c](#page-3-0) as the peak disappeared from 1.35 VRHE to 1.40 VRHE.

For further understanding the reaction pathway over the CoCu electrocatalyst, the concentrations of reactant, intermediates and final product with the change of transferred charge during the reaction process under 1.36 VRHE were further analyzed by HPLC. The theoretical coulomb quantity for 15 mL of 5 mm 5-HMF was 43.3 C. As shown in Figure [2F,](#page-3-0) with the accumulation of passed charge, the concentration of HMF gradually decreased and the concentration of FDCA gradually increased, along with the formation of HMFCA and a small amount of FFCA. The concentration of HMFCA was a bit higher than that of FFCA, indicating that the speed from FFCA to FDCA was faster than that of HMFCA to FFCA. Another intermediate DFF was nearly not detected in the oxidation process. As shown in Figure [2G,](#page-3-0) both yield and Faraday efficiency increased with the accumulation of passed charge. When the passed charge reached theoretical Coulomb quantity of 43.3 C, the yield of FDCA and Faraday efficiency were 94.8% and 94.8% respectively. A slightly higher passed charge to 44.7 C would lead to the 100% yield of FDCA and 96.8% Faraday efficiency. And after the reaction, the solution became transparent compared to the bright yellow before the reaction as visually shown in Figure [2H.](#page-3-0)

The catalytic performance of CoCu in different concentrations of HMF was also investigated. The reactions were terminated at the theoretical passing charges of transforming 5, 10, and 20 mm HMF to FDCA. As shown in **Figure 3**A, with the concentration of HMF increased from 5 to 20 mM, the conversion rate of HMF can keep at 100%, whereas both the yield of FDCA and the Faraday efficiency decreased to 71.2%. This may be due to the following reasons. At higher HMF concentrations, the viscosity of the solution increased, which affected the mass transfer rate of intermediates around the electrode and restricted the fast formation of FDCA. Higher concentrations of HMF can also lead to adsorption of large number of intermediates on the electrode surface, forming a passivation layer. This passivation layer increased the thickness of diffusion layer and thereby hindered the contact between electrons and HMF, making it more challenging for the reaction to proceed, thus reducing both yield and Faraday efficiency. At higher HMF concentrations, side reactions were more likely to occur, such as over-oxidation of HMF or polymerization of intermediate products (e.g., HMFCA or FFCA). These side reactions consumed part of the current, thereby decreasing the Faraday efficiency. Additionally, with increased HMF concentration, the polarization effect on the electrode may become more pronounced, increasing the required overpotential for the reaction and thereby reducing Faraday efficiency.

Importantly, the stability and reusability of CoCu electrocatalyst was evaluated. As shown in Figure S2A (Supporting Information), when applying a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 24 h in KOH solution, the plot demonstrated stable potential ≈ 1.58 VRHE over the testing period, indicating the electrode's stability in maintaining the applied current density. When applying the same current density in HMF solution, the voltage demonstrated a lower starting value than that in KOH solution as shown in Figure S2C (Supporting Information), displaying the lower required potential for HMFOR than OER. With the consumption of HMF, the anodic reaction was gradually dominated by the OER

and the voltage gradually rose and then stabilized at a constant value. It should be noted that the electrooxidation of HMF to FDCA was carried out in a strong base environment, therefore the good stability also indicated the good alkaline resistance of the CoCu electrocatalysts.

The graph in Figure [3B](#page-4-0) shows the reusability of the CoCu electrode over 15 cycles, with the focus on the yield of FDCA and Faraday efficiency for each cycle (the conversion of HMF kept at 100% and not shown on the figure). The electrode was directly reused without any treatment until the 14th cycle and the testing time was kept for 10 h. Initially, both the yield of FDCA and the faraday efficiency were close to 100%. As the number of cycles increases, both parameters showed a fluctuating downward – trend overall, but can still remain at a value above 80% in most cases. Considering we didn't proceed with any post-treatment before reuse of the CoCu catalyst, this slight reduction might be due to minor degradation of the electrode surface, possible accumulation of by-products, or partial deactivation of active sites over repeated use. Therefore, we washed that electrode with 1 m KOH solution several times and performed the 15th catalytic test. The yield of FDCA and Faraday efficiency can be enhanced, showing the good stability and reusability of our catalyst.

Notably, the CoCu catalyst was also able to catalyze the electrooxidation of another valuable biomass-derived platform chemical, i.e., furfural, to furoic acid at 1.36 VRHE, achieving a furfural conversion rate of 100%, a furoic acid yield of 89.1% and a furoic acid selectivity of 89.1%, respectively as shown in Figure [3C.](#page-4-0) Finally, the performance of the CoCu electrocatalyst was compared with other recent years reported electrocatalyst for FDCA production as shown in Figure [3D,E.](#page-4-0) [\[18,23,25,30–34\]](#page-10-0) This catalyst has obvious advantages in both operating voltage and yield of FDCA.

#### **2.3. Physicochemical Properties Characterization**

Different characterization techniques were adopted to explore the reaction mechanisms of CoCu electrode for HMFOR. The surface morphology features of these samples were observed by SEM. The bare nickel foam had a porous and 3D network structure (Figure S3A, Supporting Information). Co deposition on the nickel foam resulted in a structured morphology with distinct features (**Figure 4**[A;](#page-6-0) Figure S3B, Supporting Information), displaying in the form of a uniform coverage with some granular and sheet-like features, which indicated different Co growth patterns. Cu deposition on the surface of the nickel foam revealed as surface coated with a rough flocculent layer with uniform morphology (Figure [4B;](#page-6-0) Figure S3C, Supporting Information). The bimetallic CoCu co-deposition resulted in a denser structure, with smaller clusters composed of particles scattered on the surface uniformly (Figure [4C;](#page-6-0) Figure S3D, Supporting Information). The element distribution of Co and Cu was characterized by SEM-EDS analysis. As shown in Figure [4F,](#page-6-0) Co and Cu species can mix homogeneously in the observation region. The atomic ratio of Co to Cu was measured to be 1:1.45, demonstrating a higher deposition rate of Cu in the catalyst preparation process.

The crystalline structure of different samples was characterized by XRD as shown in Figure [4H.](#page-6-0) When electrodepositing only Co species, the sample displayed characteristic peaks corresponding to the existence of both Co(OH)2 and CoOOH (purple line in Figure [4H\)](#page-6-0).[\[35\]](#page-10-0) The Cu sample showed characteristic peaks corresponding to the involvement of Cu (PDF#85-1326), CuO (PDF#45-0937), Cu(OH)2 (PDF#13-0420) species.[\[36\]](#page-10-0) When co-depositing Co and Cu species, the characteristic peaks of Cu species basically remained, whereas the characteristic peaks corresponding to Co species changed. The original 9.5° peak disappeared, replaced by a new 12.9° peak, and the 42.3° peak changed. According to previous studies, these two peaks corresponded to CoOOH.[\[35\]](#page-10-0) This result demonstrated that the incorporation of Cu species in the electro-deposition process would promote the formation of hypervalent Co species in the deposition process. We also tested the XRD spectrum of Co electrode after CV activation (orange line in Figure [4H\)](#page-6-0). The spectrum showed the change in crystallinity after CV activation, generating a CoOOH crystalline structure, which demonstrated that the CV activation would also lead to the formation of hypervalent Co.

The valence state of Co and Cu in different electrodes were characterized by XPS analysis as shown in Figure [4I,J.](#page-6-0) In the fresh Co catalyst, the characteristic peaks at 801 and 784 eV corresponded to 2p1/2 and 2p3/2 orbitals of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in Co(OH)2 species, and stronger peaks at 797.7 and 781.7 eV related to a higher content of 2p1/2 and 2p3/2 orbitals of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> in CoOOH species. These peaks were accompanied by two satellite peaks.[[25,37,38\]](#page-10-0) In the CoCu catalyst, the binding energies of Co2<sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup> were similar to those in the Co catalyst, but the intensities of the peaks were different, with obviously an increased amount of Co3<sup>+</sup> in CoCu catalyst, in consistent with the XRD result. The positions and intensities of the satellite peaks of Co in the CoCu catalyst also changed compared with those in the Co catalyst. This may be related to factors such as the introduction of Cu altering the electron density.

In the fresh Cu catalyst, the characteristic peaks located at 956.2 and 935.5 eV related to the 2p1/2 and 2p3/2 orbitals of Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and the peak at 952.5 and 932.3 eV were attributed to the 2p1/2 and 2p3/2 orbitals of Cu<sup>+</sup>. The satellite peaks of Cu 2p1/2 and Cu 2p3/2 were around 956.2 and 943.8 eV respectively, indicating the presence of an unfilled 3d<sup>9</sup> state of Cu2<sup>+</sup>. [\[39–41\]](#page-10-0) In the CoCu catalyst, the binding energies of Cu<sup>+</sup> and Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> were similar to those in the Cu catalyst, whereas the position of satellite peak also showed an obvious shift, indicating that the co-deposition of Co with Cu species would change the electron density of each other. The existence of various valent state metal would provide a variable valence state in HMFOR.[\[42\]](#page-10-0)

Combined with the above characterization, the addition of Cu affected the growth of Co species, resulting in smaller, more compact structures with higher valent state of Co. The finer and more uniform CoCu structure may increase the surface area and provide more active sites for catalytic reactions, potentially enhancing electrochemical performance.

#### **3. Mechanism Discussion**

For further illustrating the reaction mechanism over CoCu electrode, operando characterization and theoretical calculations were carried out. The Operando Raman technique was employed to observe the transformation of different valent states of Co species in the reaction process. The Raman spectra in a broader range was collected and provided in Figure S4 (Supporting Information). It should be noted that as Co was the active species

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** SEM images of A) Co, B) Cu, C) CoCu, D) used CoCu electrode before washing, and (E) used CoCu electrodes after washing by 1 m KOH and ethanol; SEM-EDS analysis of F) fresh CoCu and (G) used CoCu electrode after 4 cycles; H) XRD patterns of different samples; XPS spectra of I) Co; J) Cu and K,L) CoCu electrodes.

in catalyzing the formation of HMF, we only discuss the Raman shift range related to Co species. We first performed static Raman characterization as shown in **Figure 5**[A.](#page-7-0) The pure KOH solution did not show a Raman characteristic peak. The solid CoCu electrode presented characteristic peaks at 450–460 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> that related to Co2<sup>+</sup> in Co(OH)2 and, other two characteristic peaks at 520– 540 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 602 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> that corresponded to Co3<sup>+</sup> in CoOOH. These peaks remained unchanged when the CoCu electrode was immersed in the KOH solution.

Next, operando characterization was conducted under applied potential. The result in KOH without HMF was shown in Figure [5B,](#page-7-0) the two peaks in the range of 450–460 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 520– 540 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponded to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup>, which gradually vanished with the rise of potential to 1.55 VRHE. The peak at 602 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponding to Co3<sup>+</sup> was no longer obvious even at low applied voltage. We have observed the generation of bubbles near the electrode from OER under high voltage in the measurement, which may shield the signals for Raman spectroscopy. And, the quick assumption of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> or Co4<sup>+</sup> species by OER may also lead to the weakening and disappearance of their signals in Raman spectrum. This threshold voltage was consistent with the result from LVS and Bode plots. After HMF was injected, the trends of these peaks were different from those in KOH electrolyte. As shown in Figure [5C,](#page-7-0) the two peaks in the range 450–460 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 520–540 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which corresponded to the Co2<sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup>, did not disappear with the rise of voltage, only displaying a blue shift above 1.35 VRHE. A new peak appeared at 586 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at the voltage below 1.35 VRHE and disappeared at higher voltage. This peak may correspond to the Co4<sup>+</sup> or highly oxidized CoOOH.

Based on the results of operando Raman characterization, we can draw a few conclusions. First, from the static Raman spectrum, the Co3<sup>+</sup> species was the dominant valent state, whereas in the operando Raman spectra, the Co2<sup>+</sup> species became the major valent state, indicating that the hypervalent Co species was

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Static raman spectra of A) KOH solution, Solid CoCu, and CoCu in KOH solution. In situ Raman spectra of CoCu using B) 1 m KOH or C) 1 m KOH with 10 mm HMF as the electrolyte at different potentials; D) The theoretical model and E) partial density of states over CoOOH catalyst; F) The theoretical model and G) partial density of states over Cu-integrated CoOOH catalyst.

more active and had participated in the reaction, resulting in a lower peak intensity. The disappearance of peaks at 602 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> related to Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> in the operando Raman spectra further certified the higher activity of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> in HMFOR and OER. Second, in an HMF solution, the oxidation of Co species was obviously more hysteretic than that in KOH solution under the same applied potential. This was because the HMFOR reaction would lead to the reduction of active hypervalent Co species, making the formation of hypervalent Co species more difficult. Therefore, the Co species remained in a transitional state between Co4<sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup> or Co2<sup>+</sup>, manifesting as blue shift of peaks.

Next, theoretical calculation was conducted to determine the change of electronic structure between Co and CoCu electrocatalyst. The Co catalyst was constructed by importing CoOOH from the known database and underwent a geometry optimization under determined simulation parameters as shown in Figure 5D. The CoCu catalyst was constructed by replacing part of Co atoms at the surface of CoOOH by Cu atoms and underwent same geometry optimization process as shown in Figure 5F. The density of state (DOS) and electrostatic potential of two materials were calculated. The DOS plot for CoOOH showed a clear bandgap near the Fermi level (∼0.070 Ha) as shown in Figure 5E, confirming its semiconductor behavior. The d-states (pink) and p-states (yellow) contributed predominantly to the valence band. Cu doping dramatically reduced the bandgap (∼ 0.008 Ha) as shown in Figure 5G, with p-states and d-states contributing significantly near the Fermi level. The d-states dominated at the Fermi level, introducing additional electronic states that facilitated electron transfer between valence band and conductive band, which enhanced the catalytic activity and the conductivity as shown in **Figure 6**[A.](#page-8-0) Upon Cu doping, the electrostatic potential distribution changed, especially around the Cu atoms, where high potential regions (red) appear (comparing Figure [6B,C\)](#page-8-0). This indicated localized charge redistribution around Cu atoms and enhanced electronic inhomogeneity brought by Cu incorporation.

The HMF molecule was then introduced above the surface of the CoOOH (Figure [6D,E\)](#page-8-0) and Cu-integrated CoOOH (Figure [6H,I\)](#page-8-0) (placed at the same positions in two models). The built model underwent geometry optimization. On the surface of CoOOH, the formyl group at the right side of the HMF molecule first attached to the metal atoms, while driving the hydroxymethyl group at the left side of HMF molecule away from the surface (see the red mark in Figure [6F\)](#page-8-0). Oppositely, on the surface of Cu-integrated CoOOH, the formyl group and the hydroxymethyl group both attached to the surface of the catalyst (see the green mark in Figure [6G\)](#page-8-0), resulting in a stronger electron density overlap between the HMF molecule and the catalyst surface (comparing the differential charge density as shown in Figure [6G,K\)](#page-8-0). Mechanistically, the introduction of Cu atoms alters the surface electronic structure and electrostatic potential, increasing local charge density regions and enabling stable adsorption of both functional groups.

Based on the theoretical calculation and the HPLC analysis of intermediates of HMFOR, the HMFOR route over the CoCu

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 6.** A) Schematic illustration of electron transfer over different materials; Electron density of HMF adsorbed on the surface of B) CoOOH and C) Cu-integrated CoOOH after geometry optimization; D) Top and E) side view of theoretical structure of HMF molecule (highlighted in top view) positioned on the surface of CoOOH; F) Structure and G) electron density of HMF molecule adsorbed on the surface of CoOOH after geometry optimization; H) Top and I) side view of theoretical structure of HMF (highlighted in top view) positioned on the surface of Cu-integrated CoOOH; J) Structure and K) electron density of HMF molecule adsorbed on the surface of Cu-integrated CoOOH after geometry optimization.

electrode was speculated to happen following route 2 in Figure [2A.](#page-3-0) The formyl group of HMF molecule first attached to the catalyst surface as shown in Figure 6K and underwent oxidation to form carboxyl group, and we observe the formation of HMFCA in the HPLC measurement as shown in Figure [2f.](#page-3-0) In the next step, the hydroxymethyl group of HMFCA molecule was oxidized and formed FFCA. The reactivity of formyl group was higher than that of hydroxymethyl group, leading to a higher amount of HMFCA than the FFCA during the reaction process, consistent with the observation of intermediates in Figure [2F.](#page-3-0)

The changes of the catalyst before and after HMFOR we also characterized. The change in morphology was characterized by SEM. As shown in Figure [4D,](#page-6-0) after HMFOR, the surface of the CoCu electrode was covered with the product. After the used electrode was washed with KOH and ethanol, the product can be cleaned and the catalyst morphology of small clusters composed of particles can be almost preserved as shown in Figure [4E.](#page-6-0) We use SEM-EDS analysis to analyze the element mapping of used CoCu electrode after 4 cycles as shown in Figure [4G.](#page-6-0) The two elements can still keep good homogeneity with each other. This result also indicated the good stability and reusability of the CoCu catalyst. The crystallinity of used CoCu catalyst was also characterized by XRD as shown in Figure [4H.](#page-6-0) The Co species can basically keep its original crystal structure while two new peaks related to Cu(OH)2 at 16.5° and CuO at 38.7° appeared, indicating that as an auxiliary catalytic role for Co species,

<span id="page-9-0"></span>the Cu species underwent transformation between its different valent states.

The valent states of Co species in the used CoCu catalyst were verified by XPS analysis as shown in Figure [4K.](#page-6-0) For the fresh catalyst, the Co3<sup>+</sup> was the dominate state, whereas in the used catalyst, the intensity of Co2<sup>+</sup> obviously increased (peak at 797.5 eV), indicating its participation in the HMFOR. And, in the used catalyst, the binding energies of Co2<sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup> both slightly decreased, suggesting partial reduction of Co oxidation states. For comparison, we also analyzed the XPS spectrum of used Co catalyst as shown in Figure [4I,](#page-6-0) no obvious change Co2<sup>+</sup> can be observed, which was different from that observed in the CoCu catalyst. The preservation of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> in Co electrode showed its hysteresis quality in participating in HMFOR and led to its inferior activity compared to CoCu catalyst. The Cu species in the used CoCu catalyst was also analyzed as shown Figure [4L.](#page-6-0) The ratio of Cu<sup>+</sup> obviously decreased, indicating that the Cu species was partially oxidized after the reaction, which might lead to the reduction of Co species, in accordance with that observed in Figure [4K.](#page-6-0) It should be noted that this variation of Cu species was also opposite with that observed in Cu electrode (Figure [4J\)](#page-6-0). The XPS characterization indicated that the two species affected the electronic structure of each other and the existence of such redox pair would facilitate the cycle of metal species of different valent states.

### **4. Conclusion**

Co-based catalyst driving electrocatalytic HMFOR has shown an increasing potential in producing valuable FDCA products, whereas the simultaneous adsorption of hydroxymethyl and formyl groups still limits its efficiency. In this research, we improve the intrinsic catalytic activity of CoOOH catalyst by adjusting the electronic structure and morphology through introducing Cu species in the preparation process. The introduction of Cu species leads to a strong interaction between the catalyst and the HMF molecules due to the reduced bandgap and more efficient electron transport. Incorporatoin of Cu species also results in the change of CoOOH morphology by promoting a denser, more uniform particle distribution that differed from depositing Co alone. Cu species cannot effectively catalyze the formation of FDCA, whereas when acting as the auxiliary catalytic role for Co electrocatalyst, it can enhance the activity. At a low applied potential of 1.36 VRHE, both yield and Faraday efficiency keep close to 100%. Inspired by this work, we could achieve biomass upgrading in a more energy-efficient process, which has shown great potential in coupling with green electricity-driven hydrogen production.

#### **5. Experimental Section**

The chemicals used in the catalyst preparation and catalytic test were listed in the supplementary material. Nickel foam was cut into 2 cm × 2 cm and positioned in a mixture of hydrochloric acid and ethanol, washed under ultrasound for 40 min, and then dried. The working electrode was prepared by electro-deposition with 0.1 m Co(NO3)2 solution as the electrolyte. The nickel foam was used as the working electrode for depositing the desired material. Platinum wire and saturated Hg/HgO were utilized as the opposite electrode and the reference electrode, respectively. The deposition process was set as 100 s at -0.5 VRHE to obtain the Co catalytic electrode and naturally dried. Similarly, when the Cu or CoCu electrodes were made, the electrolyte were replaced by 0.1 M Cu(NO3)2 solution or mixture solution of 0.05 m Co(NO3)2 and 0.05 m Cu(NO3)2, respectively.

Electrochemical characterization was conducted in a 30 mL electrolytic cell utilizing electrolytes consisting of 1 m KOH, both with and without the inclusion of 5-HMF. Linear scan voltammetry (LSV) and Tafel slope measurements were performed with a scanning rate of 3 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of the electrode materials were recorded within a potential window of ± 0.05 V around the open circuit voltage to determine the electrochemical surface area (ECSA). In situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was conducted in the frequency range of 0.01 to 10 000 Hz, with an amplitude of 10 mV applied at 1.3 VRHE, both in the absence and presence of 10 mm HMF. Notably, all results presented herein were obtained without applying iR correction.

The details about electrooxidation reaction of HMF or furfural, the characterization techniques and theoretical calculation methods were supplied in supporting information.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China (No.22278047, No.22208038, and No.22208040) and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Universities of Liaoning Province (No. LJ112410152029, No. LJ222410152030 and No. LJ212410152038, No. LJBKY 2024056).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Author Contributions**

Y.H. performed conceptualization, investigation, and wrote-original draft; Y.T. performed conceptualization, supervision, and wrote-original draft; Z.J. performed methodology, and investigation; C.F. performed picture processing; J.H. performed methodology; J.D. performed methodology; J.L. performed investigation; Y.L. performed investigation; H.W. performed supervision, and project management.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

5-HMF, Co-based electrocatalyst, d-electron, electrooxidation

Received: February 5, 2025 Revised: March 24, 2025 Published online: May 28, 2025 16136829, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202501476 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<sup>[1]</sup> H. Li, G. Song, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 4054.

<sup>[2]</sup> H. Duan, F. Wang, *Chem. Catal.* **2022**, *2*, 641.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2025, 27, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202501476 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [24] S. Ghosh, R. Jana, S. Ganguli, H. R. Inta, G. Tudu, H. Koppisetti, A. Datta, V. Mahalingam, *Nanoscale Adv.* **2021**, *3*, 3770.
- [25] H. Li, X. Huang, Y. Lv, J. Zhang, W. Li, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, 38279.
- [26] J. Huang, J. Chen, T. Yao, J. He, S. Jiang, Z. Sun, Q. Liu, W. Cheng, F. Hu, Y. Jiang, Z. Pan, S. Wei, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 8722.
- [27] B. Zhang, Z. Yang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207236.
- [28] J. N. Hausmann, R. Beltrán-Suito, S. Mebs, V. Hlukhyy, T. F. Fässler, H. Dau, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008823.
- [29] Y.-L. Fan, H.-F. Zhao, J.-X. Wang, W.-H. Li, F. Wei, M. Liu, Y.-H. Yu, F. Yu, W.-T. Lu, G. Zhang, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2024**, *12*, 3256.
- [30] S. Fan, B. Zhu, X. Yu, Y. Gao, W. Xie, Y. Yang, J. Zhang, C. Chen, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *92*, 1.
- [31] G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455.
- [32] G. Zhao, G. Hai, P. Zhou, Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, B. Peng, W. Xia, X. Huang, G. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213170.
- [33] P. Zhou, G. Hai, G. Zhao, R. Li, X. Huang, Y. Lu, G. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 122364.
- [34] M. Cai, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Li, G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2020**, *8*, 20386.
- [35] Y. Q. Zhu, H. Zhou, J. Dong, S. M. Xu, M. Xu, L. Zheng, Q. Xu, L. Ma, Z. Li, M. Shao, H. Duan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202219048.
- [36] X. Li, W. Zhu, F. Yue, H. Pang, C. Wang, D. Wang, Y. Lu, C. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2024**, *358*, 124418.
- [37] L. Liu, C. Han, G. Ding, M. Yu, Y. Li, S. Liu, Y. Xie, J. Liu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *450*, 138302.
- [38] A. Gu, K. Chen, X. Zhou, C. Gong, P. Wang, Y. Jiao, P. Mao, K. Chen, J. Lu, Y. Yang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *468*, 143444.
- [39] K. Cao, H. Liu, W. Li, Q. Han, Z. Zhang, K. Huang, Q. Jing, L. Jiao, *Small* **2019**, *15*, 1901775.
- [40] W. Chen, H. Zhang, Z. Ma, B. Yang, Z. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2015**, *3*, 14202.
- [41] Y. Chen, N. Huang, Y. Liang, *Ionics* **2021**, *27*, 4347.
- [42] Y. Chen, B. Liaw, H. Chen, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy.* **2006**, *31*, 427.

- [3] Y. Yang, T. Mu, *Green. Chem.* **2021**, *23*, 4228.
- [4] J. J. Bozell, G. R. Petersen, *Green. Chem.* **2010**, *12*, 539.
- [5] W. Guo, E. J. M. Hensen, W. Qi, H. J. Heeres, J. Yue, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 10157.
- [6] B. Zhang, H. Fu, T. Mu, *Green Chem.* **2022**, *24*, 877.
- [7] Z. Zhou, C. Chen, M. Gao, B. Xia, J. Zhang, *Green Chem.* **2019**, *21*, 6699.
- [8] B. You, N. Jiang, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 9913.
- [9] X. Pang, H. Bai, H. Zhao, W. Fan, W. Shi, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1545.
- [10] X. Sun, Z. Liu, Z. Xue, Y. Zhang, T. Mu, *Green Chem.* **2015**, *17*, 2719.
- [11] Y. Zhang, J. Li, N. Kornienko, *Chem. Commun. (Camb).* **2021**, *57*, 4230.
- [12] B. Zhu, C. Chen, L. Huai, Z. Zhou, L. Wang, J. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *297*, 120396.
- [13] S. Yang, Y. Guo, Y. Zhao, L. Zhang, H. Shen, J. Wang, J. Li, C. Wu, W. Wang, Y. Cao, S. Zhuo, Q. Zhang, H. Zhang, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2201306.
- [14] D. Xu, Y. Yang, B. Zhang, Z. Yang, S. Liu, T. Mu, *ChemSusChem* **2022**, *15*, 202200822.
- [15] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *34*, 2407185.
- [16] Y. Feng, K. Yang, R. L. Smith, X. Qi, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2023**, *11*, 6375.
- [17] C. Guo, Y. Huo, Q. Zhang, K. Wan, G. Yang, Z. Liu, F. Peng, *Nanomaterials* **2023**, *13*, 2318.
- [18] R. Zhong, P. Wu, Q. Wang, X. Zhang, L. Du, Y. Liu, H. Yang, M. Gu, Z. C. Zhang, L. Huang, S. Ye, *Green Chem.* **2023**, *25*, 4674.
- [19] G. Song, L. Mu, P. Qiao, L. Yang, M. Zhang, F. Dai, L. Dai, H. Wu, Z. Gao, G. Shi, S. Song, *Results Eng.* **2023**, *20*, 101606.
- [20] T. Wu, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, Y. Du, B. Chen, W. A. Sasangka, H. Liao, C. L. Gan, G. G. Scherer, L. Zeng, H. Wang, H. Li, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 763.
- [21] Y. Zhu, G. Chen, Y. Zhong, Y. Chen, N. Ma, W. Zhou, Z. Shao, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2326.
- [22] Y. Jiang, K. Dong, Y. Lu, J. Liu, B. Chen, Z. Song, L. Niu, *Sci. China. Mater.* **2020**, *63*, 1247.
- [23] G. Nawaz, M. Fatima, Z. Ahmad, K. Saleem Joya, M. Ali Assiri, S. Imran Abbas Shah, F. Yasmeen, M. Naeem Khan, *Fuel* **2024**, *362*, 130828.