---
source: Klinyod 等 - 2024 - Unraveling the Electrocatalytic Activity in HMF Oxidation to FDCA by Fine‐Tuning the Degree of NiOOH.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 107.537s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:41:11.237146Z
---

# **Unraveling the Electrocatalytic Activity in HMF Oxidation to FDCA by Fine-Tuning the Degree of NiOOH Phase Over Ni Nanoparticles Supported on Graphene Oxide**

*Sorasak Klinyod, Nuttapon Yodsin, Mai Thanh Nguyen, Zikkawas Pasom, Sunpet Assavapanumat, Marisa Ketkaew, Pinit Kidkhunthod, Tetsu Yonezawa, Supawadee Namuangruk, and Chularat Wattanakit\**

**The development of an efficient electrocatalyst for HMF oxidation to FDCA has been in the early stages. Herein, the NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam is fabricated as an electrocatalyst for FDCA production. However, the electrocatalytic performance of the untreated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam is observed with moderate Faradaic efficiency (FE) (73.0%) and FDCA yield (80.2%). By electrochemically treating the NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam in an alkaline solution with positive potential at different treatment durations, the degree of NiOOH on metal surfaces is changed. The distinctive electrocatalytic activity obtained when using the different NiOOH degrees allows to understand the crucial impact of NiOOH species in HMF electrooxidation. Enhancing the portion of the NiOOH phase on the electrocatalyst surface improves electrocatalytic activity in terms of FE and FDCA yield up to 94.8±4.8% and 86.9±4.1%, respectively. Interestingly, as long as the NiOOH portion on the electrocatalyst surface is preserved or regenerated, the electrocatalyst performance can be intact even after several catalytic cycles. The theoretical study via density functional theory (DFT) also agrees with the experimental observations and confirms that the NiOOH phase facilitates the electrochemical transformation of HMF to FDCA through the HMFCA pathway, and the potential limiting step of the overall reaction is the oxidation of FFCA to FDCA.**

# **1. Introduction**

Nowadays, the production of carbonneutral compounds from an alternative resource, especially biomass-derived compounds, has been extensively studied from both academic and industrial points of view. Several crucial chemical platforms, such as 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF), 2,5-bis (hydroxymethyl)furan (BHMF), and 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), have been produced from biogenic compounds for further transforming towards high-value-added bio-based chemicals or materials. Among them, FDCA is the most promising bio-monomer for making polyethylene furanoate (PEF), which can be used to replace petroleum-derived polyethylene terephthalate (PET) due to its superior performance under severe heat conditions and environmental benefits.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) Consequently, the production of biobased PEF from biomass-derived FDCA derived from especially lignocellulose-derived

S. Klinyod, Z. Pasom, S. Assavapanumat, M. Ketkaew, C. Wattanakit Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering School of Energy Science and Engineering Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology Rayong 21210, Thailand

E-mail: [chularat.w@vistec.ac.th](mailto:chularat.w@vistec.ac.th) N. Yodsin Department of Chemistry Faculty of Science Silpakorn University Nakorn Pathom 73000, Thailand M. T. Nguyen, T. Yonezawa Division of Materials Science and Engineering Faculty of Engineering Hokkaido University Sapporo, Hokkaido 060–8628, Japan P. Kidkhunthod Synchrotron Light Research Institute (Public Organization) 111 University Avenue Muang, Nakhon Ratchasima 30000, Thailand S. Namuangruk National Nanotechnology Center (NANOTEC) National Science and Technology Development Agency Pathum Thani 12120, Thailand

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202400779>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202400779**

<span id="page-1-0"></span>

Scheme 1. The proposed pathways of HMF electrooxidation to FDCA.

5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), has played an essential role in addressing the issue of the shortage of fossil fuels as well as establishing a new technology to improve the carbon neutrality con-

It is well-known that FDCA is produced via either thermochemical or electrochemical oxidation of HMF. Unfortunately, the thermochemical process is typically operated under elevated temperatures (333-433 K) and pressure, requiring additional oxidants.<sup>[2]</sup> To overcome such limitations of the thermochemical oxidation, the electrochemical process is considered an essential strategy, particularly by applying the economic and environmental benefits of HMF as a reactant, using economic oxygen sources generated from a water molecule, and proceeding at ambient conditions.[3]

A highly active electrocatalyst is usually required to achieve the high yield of FDCA obtained from the HMF by using an electrochemical approach. Indeed, noble metals, non-noble metals, and carbon-based materials can catalyze the HMF conversion to FDCA. It should be noted that the electrocatalytic activity of HMF electrooxidation to FDCA over carbon-based material was relatively low, corresponding to the FDCA yield of 57.0%.<sup>[4]</sup> Therefore, the development of metallic electrocatalysts has been considered to create highly active sites for FDCA production. It was reported that monometallic noble metal electrodes, such as Pt, Ru, Au, and Pd, could catalyze the HMF transformation to 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF)<sup>[5]</sup> or 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA),[6] which are the intermediate compounds before transforming to desirable FDCA, as the main product (Scheme 1). Moreover, poor catalytic activity for producing FDCA in either acidic or basic conditions was observed when using monometallic noble metals as the electrocatalysts.<sup>[5,6]</sup> Therefore, either noble metal alloys or bimetallic noble metal electrodes, such as AuPd and AuPd/C, have been proposed to circumvent the limitations of monometallic noble metals for improving the yield of the desirable FDCA product. [6a,7] Although bimetallic noble electrodes are promising electrocatalysts for enhancing FDCA yield, rapid passivation during the electrochemical oxidation is observed, eventually lowering the catalytic performance. [6b] Moreover, applying noble metal electrodes for the electrosynthesis of FDCA has some drawbacks in high capital expenditure (CAPEX) and undesirable electrocatalytic activity of humin formation.<sup>[8]</sup> Consequently, other types of electrocatalysts, in particular, non-noble metals, have been developed. For example, it was reported that the Ni-based electrocatalyst, especially the Ni/NiOOH, is one of the most efficient working electrodes for accelerating HMF conversion to FDCA.[6b] Recently, nickel oxyhydroxide (NiOOH) anode was also discovered to be the

most electroactive phase with respect to other non-noble metaloxyhydroxide species, such as FeOOH and CoOOH.[3a] Subsequently. Ni-based metal electrodes have been extensively developed to address the above-mentioned limitations of noble metalbased electrocatalysts and to open up further perspectives on their potential applications in industrial processes.<sup>[8a,9]</sup> The development of Ni-based electrocatalysts to catalyze the HMF electrooxidation to FDCA has been widely studied. For example, Grabowski et al. initially demonstrated the electrocatalytic performance of HMF oxidation to FDCA in 1991 using a nickel oxide/hydroxide anode in an alkaline media. In such conditions, they can achieve FDCA yield and a Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 71% and 84%, respectively.[10] In addition, the Ni/NOOH electrode can also be applied as a working electrode under a flow system for continuously producing FDCA, eventually reaching the FDCA yield and FE of  $\approx$  90% and 80%, respectively.<sup>[6b]</sup>

Additionally, altering an electronic property of Ni active metals by combining with other promoters making the Ni-containing composites, such as NiFe layered double hydroxide, [11] Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, [12] Ni<sub>2</sub>P,<sup>[13]</sup> Ni/NiO encapsulated in oxygen-doped graphene,<sup>[14]</sup> and NiAl-MOR-CNTs composites,[15] is one of the most promising strategies for enhancing the HMF electrooxidation to FDCA. In addition to altering an electronic property of Ni-based electrocatalysts, tailoring an electronic property of Ni metal by changing the valence state of Ni from the low Ni valence state of Ni metal (Ni<sup>0</sup>) to the higher valence state of the NiOOH (Ni<sup>3+</sup>) phase through Ni surface reconstruction without adding any promoters is an attractive approach for improving the efficiency of the Nibased electrocatalysts in HMF electrooxidation to FDCA. It was observed that the Ni metal phase could be spontaneously reconstructed to a Ni(OH), phase in an alkaline solution, and it was further transformed to the high-valence state of NiOOH species when applying the high positive potential.[16] Recently, the HMF electrooxidation on the three different Ni-based surfaces, including Ni(OH)2, Ni(OH)2/NiOOH, and NiOOH species, have been reported. For example, it was revealed that the NiOOH phase is the most highly active species for HMF electrooxidation. [3a] Similarly, the DFT calculations also indicate that the NiOOH (Ni<sup>3+</sup>) is the most active phase compared to other Ni forms, including Ni (Ni<sup>0</sup>), NiO (Ni<sup>2+</sup>), NiO-O (Ni<sup> $\delta$ +</sup>), and NiOOH-V<sub>O</sub> (Ni<sup> $\delta$ +</sup>), in which  $\delta$  is in the range of 2–3.

Although the Ni materials have tremendously progressed as electrocatalysts for FDCA production, the systematic study of the impact of the NiOOH phase related to the electrocatalytic activity of HMF electrooxidation has not yet been understood clearly. In this contribution, we illustrate the crucial impact of the NiOOH phase using NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam on electrocatalytic activity for HMF conversion to FDCA. The different degrees of high-valence state of the NiOOH layer on the Ni metal surface were tuned systematically by alkaline treatment under applying with positive potential at different durations. Subsequently, electrocatalysts with varying portions of the NiOOH phase were used to catalyze the HMF electrooxidation in an alkaline solution. To analyze the concentration of reaction mixtures, calibration curves of corresponding chemical standards are applied (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Moreover, the relationship between the NiOOH portion and electrocatalytic activity in HMF electrooxidation was investigated to gain insights into the vital role of NiOOH species in the electrochemical pathways. Not only the effect of NiOOH

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2024, 27, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202400779 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

degree on the HMF electrooxidation activity but also the catalyst reusability was studied by regeneration of the Ni-surfaces to confirm the recoverability of NiOOH species even using them for several electrocatalytic cycles. Interestingly, it was found that as long as the NiOOH species on the electrode surfaces can be maintained, the high electrocatalytic performance of the electrode is observed in FDCA production. In addition, the density functional theory (DFT) calculations were applied to gain insights into the molecular level behavior during the electrochemical transformation of HMF to FDCA. The comprehensive study of the reaction mechanism on NiOOH surfaces can confirm the crucial impact of the NiOOH phase reconstructed from Ni metal surfaces, which agreed well with the experimental observations, indicating that increasing the fraction of the NiOOH phase can induce the electrochemical oxidation of HMF to FDCA via the preferable HMFCA pathway instead of DFF. These findings can disclose the influence of the metal valence state on the electrocatalytic activity toward opening up new ideas for the rational design of electrooxidation catalysts for biomass-derived compounds.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Preparation of x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-Foam**

To fabricate the x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam used as a working electrode, the graphene oxide (GO) was initially synthesized via the oxidation of graphite using the Hummers' method with some minor modifications.[\[17\]](#page-11-0) Typically, the graphene sheets are exfoliated to form individual sheets by introducing oxygen species to the pure carbon graphite under acidic conditions using KMnO4 as an oxidizing agent. As illustrated in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), it was observed that graphite could be oxidized entirely to form graphene oxide, confirmed by the characteristic diffraction peak at 2 of 10.8°, corresponding to the GO's lattice plane of 001.[\[18\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, TEM images indicate that the 50-NiNPs/GO shows the presence of highly dispersed spherical Ni nanoparticles (NiNPs) with a particle size in the range of 17.4±3.8 nm (**Figures 1**[a,b\)](#page-3-0). The HRTEM technique also confirms that there are two different Ni facets of Ni (111) and Ni (200) containing NiNPs supported on GO (Figure [1C\)](#page-3-0). In addition, the STEM-EDX technique was used to visualize the distribution of elements over the NiNPs/GO. As illustrated in Figures [1d–f,](#page-3-0) the interface between NiNPs (green) and the graphene oxide sheet (blue) can be identified, indicating the successful preparation of NiNPs supported on GO.

To further fabricate the working electrode containing the x-NiNPs/GO deposited on a Ni foam (x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam), the x-NiNPs powder dispersed in 0.5 wt.% of Nafion in isopropyl alcohol (IPA) was dropped on the Ni foam surfaces. SEM-EDX images (Figure S3, Supporting Information) reveal that the 50- NiNPs/GO was fully covered on the Ni foam surfaces, confirmed by a change of the Ni skeleton surface from smooth of the bare Ni foam to rough surface of NiNPs/GO.

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Properties of Prepared Electrocatalysts**

To further investigate the electrocatalytic properties of the NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam in the electro-transformation of HMF to FDCA, the oxidation potential of HMF on the 50-NiNPs/GO-Nifoam electrodes was initially analyzed using the cyclic voltammetry (CV) technique with various HMF concentrations (2, 5, and 10 mM) in 0.1 M KOH (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-4-0) using conventional threeelectrode system. It was found that the onset potential for oxidizing the HMF molecules begins at approximately 420 mV versus Ag/AgCl. The highest anodic current density can be found at 550 mV. To further increase the HMF concentration, an anodic current density in such an oxidation potential is significantly enhanced. Moreover, the CV voltammograms show that the onset oxidation potential for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) can be found at a higher positive potential than the potential for HMF electrooxidation. These observations also agree with the previous report confirming that the OER occurred on NiNPs supported graphene electrode at a higher positive potential (565 mV vs Ag/AgCl)[\[14\]](#page-11-0) than that of HMF electrooxidation (550 mV vs Ag/AgCl). It should be noted that HMF electrooxidation can take place at a lower oxidation potential than OER because HMF electrooxidation is thermodynamically favored compared to OER.[\[8a,19\]](#page-11-0)

Consequently, the chronoamperometric experiment at the constant positive potential of 550 mV versus Ag/AgCl was implemented on various working electrodes, including Bare-Nifoam, GO-Ni-foam, 10-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, 25-NiNPs/GO-Nifoam, and 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, using a divided electrochemical cell (**Scheme [2](#page-4-0)**) at a particular reaction time to compare the electrocatalytic activity among various catalysts. As exhibited in Figure S4a (Supporting Information), the relatively low FDCA yield (13.5%) was observed when using the Bare-Ni-foam as a working electrode. However, the FDCA yield was further improved to 22.3% by integrating with the GO deposited on the Ni foam (GO-Ni-foam). The reason for the increased activity is attributed to the deposition of GO materials, which have point defects at grain boundaries in their structure, on Ni foam electrodes, which can alter the electronic properties of Ni foam electrodes toward enhancing the electrooxidation of HMF molecules.[\[4,8a\]](#page-10-0) Nevertheless, it still suffers from a low FDCA yield when using the GO-Ni-foam. This would be because having only the -conjugated system in the GO structure on the Ni foam support might not be efficient enough to further oxidize HMF molecules to the final product of FDCA. Therefore, altering the electronic properties of GO-Ni-foam by introducing NiNPs supported on GO sheets might have a positive effect on FDCA production. This hypothesis can be confirmed by significantly improved FDCA yield in the order of 23.6%, 58.8%, and 73.0% when using 10-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, 25-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, and 50- NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes, respectively. The reason for the enhanced electrocatalytic activity when adding NiNPs on the GO surfaces relates to the change of the -conjugated system in the GO structure since the synergetic effect of the charge transfer between NiNPs and unpaired electrons of GO materials.[\[14,20\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the existence of the -conjugated system in NiNPs/GO-Nifoam was confirmed by the UV-Vis DRS technique (Figure S4b, Supporting Information). The characteristic bands at 226 nm and 235 nm, corresponding to → \* transition for C═C bonding[\[21\]](#page-11-0) were observed in the deposited GO on Ni foam surfaces (GO-Nifoam). Obviously, introducing the NiNPs onto the GO surfaces can even more emphasize these characteristics (Figure S4b, Supporting Information). These observations relate to altering the

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Particle size distribution of NiNPs on GO sheets, b) TEM, c) HRTEM, and d–f) STEM-EDX images of 50-NiNPs/GO composite.

electronic property in the NiNPs/GO materials. Therefore, it is reasonable to confirm that the fabrication of NiNPs supported on GO sheets can tune the electronic properties of GO and NiNPs, eventually enhancing the HMF electrooxidation activity. In addition, increasing the amount of NiNPs on GO sheets not only changes their electronic property but also enhances the ECSA of x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes in the order of 1.2 cm2, 2.9 cm2, and 4.5 cm<sup>2</sup> for 10-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, 25-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, and 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, respectively (Figures S5 and S6, Supporting Information). These observations also reveal that the 50- NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam is the most promising anode for HMF electrooxidation to FDCA, giving the highest FDCA yield compared to other electrodes. However, the Faradaic efficiency (FE) is relatively low (74.7%) due to the interference of OER at this applied oxidation potential (Figure S7 and Table S1, Supporting Information).

Therefore, exploring the optimal positive applied potential was further investigated to eliminate the OER. Based on the cyclic voltammogram (CV), the electrooxidation peak of 5 mM HMF was initially observed at about 550 mV versus Ag/AgCl. Consequently, the HMF electrooxidation at 550 mV was performed with the chronoamperometry technique. However, as shown in

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Cyclic voltammograms (CVs) of 50-NiNiPs/GO-Ni-foam in HMF solution with various HMF concentrations (2, 5, and 10 mM) using 0.1 M KOH as supporting electrolyte at a scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> and b) Linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) of 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam in 0.1 M KOH (red) and in 5 mM HMF in 0.1 M KOH solution (black) at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup>1.

Table S1 (Supporting Information), the relatively low electrocatalytic performance was observed with the Faradaic efficiency and FDCA yield of 74.7% and 68.1%, respectively. This corresponds to the interference of OER, which occurs at a positive potential of 565 mV versus Ag/AgCl when NiNPs-supported graphene is used as the electrocatalyst.[\[14\]](#page-11-0) Considering the differentiation of positive potential between OER and HMF electrooxidation, there is a 15 mV difference between both reactions. Consequently, the OER would be competitive to the HMF electrooxidation at 550 mV of applied potential, leading to overconsuming the total charge passed for FDCA production, so the calculated Faradaic efficiency (FE) for FDCA production from the equation (4) would be relatively low (74.7%). Therefore, the further study of the effect of applied potential on HMF electrooxidation was included. The different applied potentials ranging from 400 mV to 600 mV versus Ag/AgCl were applied by fixing the total charge passed by 5.35 C (Figure S7 and Table S1, Supporting Information). When the electrocatalytic system reaches the total charge of

**Scheme 2.** Electrochemical set-up of HMF electrooxidation to FDCA in alkaline solution using H-cell type separated by Nafion-115 (gray). In the anodic compartment (yellow) containing 5 mM HMF in 0.1 M KOH, x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam (red) was used as an anode for electro-transforming HMF to FDCA, while the counter electrode of Pt gauze (dark blue) was in the cathodic compartment (blue) containing a 0.1 M KOH.

5.35 C, 93.8% and 73.0% of HMF conversion, and FDCA yield, respectively, can be achieved at the applied potential of 500 mV. As the theoretical number of charges required to complete the oxidation of 2 mL of 5 mM HMF to FDCA is approximately 5.79 C, the Faradaic efficiency (FE) is calculated to be 80.2% (Table S1, Supporting Information). However, when increasing the applied potential to either 550 mV or 600 mV, the electrocatalytic activity of the catalyst was reduced, as can be seen from lowering FDCA yield and FE for FDCA production (Table S1, Supporting Information). In addition, applying a low oxidation potential, such as at 400 mV, is impossible because a longer reaction time is required to achieve a similar FDCA yield compared to the positive potential of 500 mV. It is, therefore, reasonable to conclude that the applied potential of 500 mV should be the most suitable for further study.

#### **2.3. Influence of Surface Reconstruction on Electrocatalytic Activity**

As stated above, although the suitable potential of HMF oxidation was investigated, the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam shows only a very modest FE. To further improve the electrocatalytic activity, we carried out additional experiments by creating a high-valence state of Ni species via partial surface reconstruction of the Ni metallic form of NiNPs to the partial NiOOH phase. To confirm the reconstruction of Ni metal to NiOOH phase, the linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) in 0.1 M KOH using 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode with and without HMF were demonstrated (Figure 2b). A single oxidation peak at a positive potential of ≈460 mV was observed when sweeping the potential toward the positive direction over the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam without HMF. Noticeably, the two oxidation peaks, including at ≈460 mV and ≈550 mV, were pronounced when scanning the potential to the positive direction on 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam in 5 mM HMF solution. Moreover, it is well-known that the transformation of Ni(OH)2, which is

obtained from the spontaneous conversion of the Ni metal phase in an alkaline media without applied positive potential, to NiOOH species, usually takes place at the positive potential of *>* 400 mV versus Ag/AgCl.[\[16\]](#page-11-0) Therefore, these findings imply that the two consequence electrochemical reactions, including the Ni(OH)2 oxidation to NiOOH species (≈460 mV; grey area)[\[3a\]](#page-10-0) and oxidation of HMF molecule (≈550 mV; green area), occur during the HMF electrooxidation (Figure [2b\)](#page-4-0). In addition, the generation of NiOOH species through Ni(OH)2 oxidation occurs before the HMF electrooxidation. This behavior agrees with the previous report.[\[3a\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, the electrocatalytic activity would be improved if the Ni surface is partially reconstructed to the NiOOH phase before catalyzing the HMF transformation to FDCA.

Additionally, the partial reconstruction of Ni metallic form to NiOOH phase on the surface of 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode was performed by treating the electrode in 0.1 M KOH under the positive potential of 485 mV for 60 min before catalyzing the HMF electrooxidation. To gain insight into the partial surface reconstruction of Ni metal to NiOOH phase, the Ni K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (Ni K-edge XANES) experiments were performed in transmission mode to further confirm differentiation between the untreated and treated electrodes. The Ni foil and NiO compounds were used as the chemical standard to represent the oxidation state of Ni0 and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively. Although the same edge energy of NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam and the bare Ni foam was found at ≈ 8332 eV, corresponding to the edge energy of Ni0, [\[22\]](#page-11-0) the white-line intensity of NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam is slightly higher than that of the Ni foam, possibly due to the increase in valence state of Ni species in the NiNPs/GO compared to the bare Ni foam. However, the differentiation of Ni3<sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> on untreated and treated NiNPs/GO cannot be confirmed owing to too low fraction of NiOOH and Ni(OH[\)2](#page-10-0) on the whole electrodes (Figure S8a, Supporting Information).

To further confirm the surface reconstruction, a dispersive Raman spectroscopy technique was further employed to visualize the Raman spectra of untreated and treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam characteristics. The results indicate that the Raman bands at 477 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 559 cm<sup>−</sup>1, corresponding to the characteristic vibration of the Eg Ni-O bending vibration mode and A1g Ni-O stretching vibration of NiOOH species, respectively,[\[23\]](#page-11-0) were contained in the Raman spectrum of the treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode measured immediately after treating process. In contrast to the Raman spectrum of the treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode, the characteristic vibration band of the N─O bond of the NiOOH phase was not observed in the Raman spectrum of the untreated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode (Figure S8b, Supporting Information). This finding can be used as solid evidence to confirm the surface reconstruction of the Ni metallic phase to the NiOOH phase when the NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes were treated in alkaline media under the positive potential.

Moreover, to provide additional solid evidence for transforming the Ni metallic form to the NiOOH phase, a Fouriertransform infrared (FTIR) spectrometry technique equipped with an attenuated total reflectance (ATR-FTIR) was used to examine the characteristic vibration band of untreated and treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes. It was observed that the vibration band at 520 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 567 cm<sup>−</sup>1, the characteristic vibration band of the Ni─O bond of NiOOH structure,[\[24\]](#page-11-0) and the motion of hydrogen-bonded linkages Ni-O-H and Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O stretching vibrations,[\[25\]](#page-11-0) respectively, is more pronounced in the ATR-FTIR spectrum of the treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode compared with the untreated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode (Figure S8c, Supporting Information). This observation can also confirm the enhancement of NiOOH generation when performing the electrodes with the alkaline treatment under the positive potential. These observations also agree well with the XRD results that reveal the existence of the high valence state of Ni(OH)2 and NiOOH species on the treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode (Figure S9, Supporting Information).

To further confirm the hypothesis of the impact of NiOOH species on HMF electrooxidation, the electrocatalytic performances in HMF electrooxidation over the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam surfaces containing the different degrees of NiOOH species were observed. In this case, the various degrees of NiOOH phase on electrode surfaces were obtained by treating the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam in 0.1 M KOH at 485 mV, which is more positive potential than the redox potential of Ni(OH)2/NiOOH conversion,[\[3a\]](#page-10-0) with different durations (30, 60, and 90 min). Interestingly, the XPS analysis indicates that the characteristic of NiOOH species corresponding to the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species appeared at 856 eV[\[22,26\]](#page-11-0) is present when the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam is treated in alkaline media under the positive potential (**Figures 3**[a–d\)](#page-6-0). Moreover, the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio, obtained from the integrated XPS area of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (856 eV) divided by the total area of all Ni species, including Ni<sup>0</sup> (852 eV), Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (854 eV), and Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (856 eV) increases when extending the treatment time (Figures [3a–d](#page-6-0) and **Scheme [3](#page-6-0)**). For example, when prolonging the treatment time from 0, 30, to 60, and 90 min, the ratio of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) increases from 0, 0.05, to 0.14, and 0.15, respectively, again confirming the different degrees of NiOOH phase on the electrode surfaces by easily tuning the treatment condition. Moreover, the XPS fitting results can be ensured with the theoretical peak position of Ni<sup>0</sup> (≈852 eV), Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (≈854 eV), and Ni3<sup>+</sup> (≈856 eV).[\[22\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the demonstration of the characteristic spin-energy separation of Ni<sup>0</sup> (≈17.3 eV), Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (≈17.6 eV),[\[27\]](#page-11-0) and Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (≈17.9 eV)[\[28\]](#page-11-0) was illustrated in Figure S10 and Table S2 (Supporting Information). It was also found that the XPS fitting results show the characteristic spin-energy separation of Ni0, Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Ni3<sup>+</sup> at ≈ 17.3 eV, 17.6 eV, and 17.9 eV, which were also correlated to theory.

In addition, the HRTEM images confirm the partial Ni surface reconstruction by monitoring the change of a d-spacing value before and after alkaline treatment. It was found that the d-spacing of the Ni metallic phase (2.0 Å) gradually enlarged to a higher value corresponding to the Ni(OH)2 (2.2 Å and 2.3 Å) and the NiOOH phase (2.4 Å), as shown in Figure [3e–h](#page-6-0) and Figure S11 (Supporting Information). These findings ensure that tuning the electronic property of an electrocatalyst by changing the valence state of Ni metallic phase to NiOOH can be successful.

To demonstrate the influence of NiOOH species on HMF electrooxidation to FDCA, the treated 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam with different degrees of NiOOH on the electrode surface was applied as the working electrode in an identical condition as mentioned above by fixing the total charge passed by 5.35 C. Noticeably, the FDCA yield was improved when increasing the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio (**Figure 4**[a,b\)](#page-7-0). Obviously, the FDCA yield increases from 73.5±1.3%, to 86.9±4.1%, when increasing the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio by up to 0.14. In addition,

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 3. a–d) Ni  $2p_{3/2}$  XPS spectra and e–h) HRTEM images of 50-NiNPs/GO with different alkaline treatment durations of a and e) 0 min, b and f) 30 min, c and g) 60 min, and d and h) 90 min.

the FE also significantly enhances from  $81.3\pm2.6\%$  to  $94.8\pm4.8\%$  when raising the Ni<sup>3+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) ratio from 0 to 0.14. According to the existence of the two high valence states of Ni species, Ni<sup>2+</sup>, and Ni<sup>3+</sup>, this might raise the question of which species are involved in promoting the HMF electrooxidation. Considering the impact between Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> on HMF electrooxidation, the different value of Ni<sup>2+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) and Ni<sup>3+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) ratios at each alkaline treatment duration was investigated. It was observed that the predominant differentiation of Ni<sup>3+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) ratio at different alkaline treatment duration is in the order of 0.00 (0 min) < 0.05 (30 min) < 0.14 (60 min), eventually improving the catalytic

**Scheme 3.** Illustration of partial reconstruction of low valence state of Ni metal (Ni<sup>0</sup>) phase to the high valence state of NiOOH (Ni<sup>3+</sup>) phase using alkaline treatment appoach under positive potential applied at different durations.

activity by increasing the faradaic efficiency (FE) and FDCA yield in the order of  $81.3\pm2.6\% < 85.3\pm6.5\% < 94.8\pm4.8\%$  and  $73.5\pm1.3\% < 78.3\pm6.3\% < 86.9\pm4.1\%$ , respectively. In contrast to the Ni<sup>3+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) ratio, the Ni<sup>2+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) ratios, including 0.10, 0.09, 0.08, and 0.10, of different alkaline treatment durations of 0, 30, 60, and 90 min are not much different. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the Ni<sup>3+</sup> species should have a stronger impact on HMF electrooxidation than the Ni<sup>2+</sup> species. In addition, the influence of Ni<sup>2+</sup> variation might be neglected for the contribution of HMF electrooxidation. Interestingly, the catalytic performance over treated NiNPs/GO-Ni foam electrocatalysts also agrees with the previous reports, confirmed by the values of the HMF conversion, FDCA selectivity, and Faradaic efficiency (Table S3). [3a,14,22,29]

However, further increasing the Ni<sup>3+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2+</sup>+Ni<sup>3+</sup>) ratio on the treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam surface up to 0.15 trends to reduce the electrocatalytic activity by slightly decreasing both FE and FDCA yield to 94.3±0.7% and 84.0±2.1%, respectively. These observations relate to the fact that increasing the thickness of the NiOOH layer on the NiNPs could negatively affect the electrochemical oxidation of HMF molecules by increasing the work function (W) of the working electrode toward increasing the onset overpotential of HMF electrooxidation. This assumption corresponds to the previous report demonstrating the impact of the NiOOH thickness on electrochemical oxygen evolution reactions (OER) in alkaline media, involving the first step of adsorption of OH- species on the electrode surface before the origination of O<sub>2</sub> molecules.<sup>[30]</sup> Moreover, this first step of adsorption of OH<sup>-</sup> species on the electrode surface is crucial for dehydrogenating HMF molecules in the electrooxidation. [8a] Therefore, it is reasonable to assume the impact of NiOOH thickness on HMF electrooxidation which is similar to that in OER. Based on a previous study, increasing the thickness of the NiOOH phase can negatively affect the electrocatalytic activity by increasing the onset potential due to increasing the work function of the working

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** The HMF electrooxidation activity on different electrocatalysts, including a (Ni3<sup>+</sup>/(Ni0+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni3+) ratio = 0), b (Ni3+/(Ni0+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni3+) ratio = 0.05), c (Ni3+/(Ni0+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni3+) ratio = 0.14), and d (Ni3+/(Ni0+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni3+) ratio = 0.15); HMF conversion (green), product selectivity of HMFCA (pink), DFF (yellow), FFCA (blue), FDCA (grey), and Faradaic efficiency (FE) for FDCA production (red), b) the FE (red line) and FDCA yield (green line) as a function of Ni3+/(Ni0+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni3<sup>+</sup>) ratio, and c) the reusability test (Cx) and the regeneration (Ry) of treated 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam (Ni3+/(Ni0+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni3+) ratio = 0.14), where x and y refer to the number of catalytic cycles and the number of regeneration sequences, respectively.

electrode towards lowering the electrocatalytic activity. Therefore, further increasing the degree of the NiOOH phase on the NiNPs surface might be disadvantageous to the HMF electrooxidation. This assumption was confirmed with slightly decreasing HMF electrocatalytic activity when the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio was further raised to 0.15.

To further gain insights into the crucial role of NiOOH species of electrode surfaces on the electrocatalytic activity, the reusability test of the treated 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode with the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio of 0.14 was performed for five catalytic cycles (C1 to C5). It was observed that the catalytic performance in terms of FE and FDCA yield slowly dropped from 94.8±4.8% to 84.9±1.6% and 86.9±4.1% to 79.6±1.5%, respectively, for 1st and 5th cycle as shown in Figure 4c (C1 to C5). Unsurprisingly, this phenomenon relates to losing the high valence state of NiOOH species when the electrode was used for several cycles under the electrooxidation condition. However, the catalytic performance of the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode can be fully recovered again by retreating the spent electrode in the alkaline media under identical conditions to regenerate the active NiOOH species. Fascinatingly, the electrocatalytic performance of the 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode can be again high (Figure 4c). It was found that the FE values after the 1st (R1), 2nd (R2), and 3rd (R3) regeneration cycles were calculated to be 95.1±2.8%, 94.2±3.1%, and 92.4±5.0%, leading to maintaining the FDCA yield of 89.5±3.3%, 88.1±4.1%, and 86.8±4.3%, respectively. To further confirm the hypothesis of the changed valence state of the Ni, the treated 50-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode, after electro-catalyzing the HMF transformation to FDCA of the 1st cycle (C1) and 3rd cycle (C3) without regeneration was investigated the change of valence state of Ni in terms of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratios, confirmed by the XPS analysis. The results indicate that the Ni3<sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio was reduced from 0.14 (fresh treated NNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode) to 0.04 (Figure S12a,b, Supporting Information) and 0.03 (Figure S12c,d, Supporting Information) after the electrotransformation of HMF to FDCA of C1 and C3, respectively. This finding reveals that the valance state of Ni can be changed by reducing the degree of the high valence state of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, leading to lowering the catalytic performance of NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode, confirmed by decreasing the Faradaic efficiency (FE) and FDCA yield (Figure 4c). To gain insight into the recoverability of Ni3<sup>+</sup> species on the NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam surfaces, the treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode after the 5th cycle was also examined using the XPS analysis after regeneration. It was observed that the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+Ni<sup>2</sup>++Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio of the treated NiNPs/GO-Nifoam electrode after the regeneration was again raised to 0.12 (Figure S12e,f, Supporting Information), which is close to the one before the reaction. Interestingly, when using such an electrode to catalyze the HMF electrooxidation, the catalytic performance was fully recovered by raising the FE and FDCA yield to 95.1±2.8% and 89.5±3.3%, respectively (Figure 4c). These findings can confirm the impact of the high valence state of the NiOOH phase on improved HMF electrooxidation activity. This study can disclose the perspective for systematically tuning the electrocatalyst's performance by adjusting the valence state of the Ni-based catalyst via electrochemical technique, leading to improving the electrocatalytic performance of the electrocatalyst.

Increasing the high valence state of Ni-based catalysts not only enhances the electrocatalytic activity but also affects the electrocatalytic pathway of HMF electrooxidation. It was observed that the HMF conversion to FDCA via the HMFCA pathway tends to be more favorable than the DFF pathway when the fraction of NiOOH species on the electrode surface increases. As exhibited in Figure S13 (Supporting Information), the detectable intermediate of the DFF compound gradually dropped as the portion of NiOOH species on the electrode surface increased while the formation of the HMFCA compound improved. This finding raises the question of why the high valence state of NiOOH species can influence the electrocatalytic pathway of HMF electrooxidation.

To further confirm the crucial impact of the NiOOH phase on improved electrocatalytic activity and the reaction pathways, the theoretical study of the mechanism of HMF electrooxidation on the NiOOH surface was examined using periodic DFT calculations. All intermediates involved in the HMF electrooxidation over NiOOH surfaces are located, and the Gibbs free energy (G) pathway is demonstrated. At first, all possible configurations of HMF adsorbed on the NiOOH surface were verified to obtain the most stable configuration, as illustrated in Figure S14 (Supporting Information). It was observed that the HMF molecule

**Figure 5.** Gibbs free energy profile of HMF oxidation to FDCA over NiOOH surface via two different electrocatalytic pathways of HMFCA and DFF; C, H, and O atoms are represented in grey, orange, and red, respectively.

could be chemically adsorbed on the NiOOH surface via H-bond interaction either through the alcohol or aldehyde group and/or simultaneously adsorbed through such two H-bonds. The HMFads-A configuration, involving dual adsorption through H-bonds of the alcohol and aldehyde groups, demonstrates the highest adsorption energy of −1.08 eV, indicating that it is the most stable configuration for HMF adsorption on the NiOOH surface. Therefore, the HMF-ads-A configuration was selected as an initial structure for further study of HMF electrooxidation. This finding indicates that alcohol and aldehyde groups in the HMF molecule can be competitively oxidized to produce DFF and HMFCA intermediates, respectively. Therefore, the mechanistic study of the electrochemical oxidation of HMF to FDCA via two different electrocatalytic pathways, such as the DFF and HMFCA routes, was further demonstrated. Typically, there are three main consecutive deprotonation processes for electro-transforming HMF to FDCA. Firstly, the HMF molecule is dehydrogenized to form the first intermediate, which can be either DFF or HMFCA. Afterward, the first intermediate is further deprotonated to produce the second intermediate of FFCA. Finally, the FFCA compound is forward dehydrogenated to the final product of FDCA.

The calculation results show that the reaction pathway can be divided into HMFCA and DFF routes, depending on the oxidation of the aldehyde or alcohol group, respectively (Scheme [1](#page-1-0) and Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information). For the DFF pathway, the first deprotonation can take place either on the C─H or O─H bond within the alcohol group of the HMF molecule to form the intermediate of iDFF-a (G = −1.04 eV) and iDFF-b (G = 0.02 eV), respectively. Because the free energy change of the iDFF-a intermediate (ΔG = 0.46 eV) was lower than that of the iDFF-b (ΔG = 1.52 eV) compared to the HMF adsorption step (G = −1.50 eV), the HMF molecule then prefers to form the DFF intermediate via C-H bond dissociation (**Figure 5**). Hence, the iDFF-a was further deprotonated to form DFF compound with the Gibbs free energy of −0.45 eV. Subsequently, the aldehyde group in the DFF molecule was further oxidized to the FFCA molecule with the Gibbs free energy change (ΔG) of 1.32 eV. Afterward, the aldehyde group contained in the FFCA molecule was further oxidized to the carboxylic group, eventually yielding the FDCA desired product with ΔG of 0.97 eV. Finally, the FDCA product is desorbed from the NiOOH surface. This observation disclosed that if the electrochemical oxidation of HMF to FDCA occurs through the DFF pathway, the first dehydrogenation step should originate from the C-H bond breaking of alcohol in the HMF molecule. The free energy change on the pathway makes the reaction slightly endothermic. The potentialdetermining step (PDS), or the most difficult step, is also identified as DFF oxidation to FFCA.

For the HMFCA route, the initial step starts from the deprotonation of the aldehyde group of the HMF to generate the iHM-FCA (G = −1.85 eV) intermediate with the ΔG of −0.35 eV. This value is much lower than that of iDFF-a and iDFF-b formation in the DFF pathway, implying that the deprotonation of the aldehyde group is more thermodynamically preferable to the alcohol group in HMF molecule (Figure 5). Afterwards, the iHMFCA was hydroxylated to produce the HMFCA with the ΔG of 0.56 eV. Then, the FDCA was formed via the two consecutive oxidations of the alcohol group in HMFCA to produce FFCA and the oxidation of the aldehyde group in FFCA to FDCA molecule with the Gibbs free energy barrier of 0.85 eV and 0.97 eV, respectively. These results demonstrated that the electrooxidation of HMF to FDCA through the HMFCA pathway began with the C─H bond dissociation of the aldehyde group in HMF. Furthermore, within this catalytic pathway, the formation of FDCA from FFCA is identified as the PDS, presenting the ΔG value of 0.97 eV. This observation also agrees well with the experimental data, which indicate that the transformation of FFCA to FDCA is the most difficult step according to the highest remaining portion compared to the DFF and HMFCA intermediates (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Therefore, it can be concluded that the most accessible catalytic pathway for electro-transforming HMF to FDCA on the NiOOH surface should be the HMFCA route. This finding agrees with the experimental data that once the degree of NiOOH phase is increased on the electrode surface, the electrocatalytic pathway prefers to proceed via the HMFCA route.

## **3. Conclusion**

The electrooxidation of HMF to FDCA was successfully obtained over NiNPs supported on GO sheets deposited on Ni-foam electrodes (x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam). Introducing NiNPs into the GO structure can tune the electronic properties of NiNPs and the GO structure, eventually improving the catalyst's performance. Nevertheless, the synergetic effect between NiNPs and the conjugated system in the GO structure cannot achieve an appreciated electrocatalytic activity with the modest Faradaic efficiency (FE) and FDCA yield of 81.3±2.6% and 73.5±1.3%, respectively. To further enhance the electrocatalytic performance of NiNPs, we tuned the valence state of Ni species from the low to high valence state, allowing us to improve electrocatalytic activity significantly. Increasing the NiOOH (Ni3<sup>+</sup>) phase, obtained from partial Ni metal (Ni0) surface reconstruction, with the enhanced Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/(Ni<sup>0</sup>+ Ni<sup>2</sup>++ Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) ratio from 0 to 0.14 leads to improve the FE and FDCA yield from 81.3±2.6% to 94.8±4.8% and 73.5±1.3% to 86.9±4.1%, respectively. Interestingly, systematically tuning the degree of the NiOOH phase on the Ni metal surface leads to understanding the crucial impact of the high valence state of NiOOH species in HMF electrooxidation to FDCA. The

www.small-journal.com

In an energy-dispersive X-ray surface appearance of the x-red by the scanning electron in a JSM-7610F (JEOL) field
GO-Ni-foam electrodes, and the examined by X-ray diffraction in a process of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the common of the commo

16136829, 2024, 27, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202400779 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Page 1978). The applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque

theoretical study also shows that the electrocatalytic process of HMF to FDCA on the NiOOH surface occurs through the HMFCA pathway due to a lower Gibbs free energy change compared to that of the competitive DFF pathway, and the limiting potential step is the oxidation of FFCA to FDCA, and this observation is similar to what has been observed in the experimental scheme. These findings open up a new perspective for rationally designing the Ni-based electrocatalyst to maximize the catalyst performance in an electrooxidation of biomass-derived compound.

## 4. Experimental Method

Reagent and Materials: Graphite powder (Fujifilm Wako Pure Chemical Corporation), sulfuric acid (H2SO4, 98%, Fujifilm Wako Pure Chemical Corporation), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2, 35%, Junsei Chemical Co., Ltd.), sodium nitrate (NaNO2, 99%, Junsei Chemical Co., Ltd.), potassium permanganate (KMnO<sub>4</sub>, 99%, Junsei Chemical Co., Ltd.), hydrochloric acid (HCl, 37%, Kanto Chemical Co., Inc.), Nickel (II) nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%, Kanto Chemical Co., Inc.), potassium hydroxide (KOH, 90%, Sigma-Aldrich), Nafion perfluorinated resin solution (5%, Sigma-Aldrich), isopropyl alcohol (IPA, 99.9%, Fisher Chemical), 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF, 95%, Tokyo Chemical Industry), diformylfuran (DFF, 98%, Tokyo Chemical Industry), 5-hydroxymethyl-2furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA, 98%, Tokyo Chemical Industry), 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA, 98%, Tokyo Chemical Industry), and 2,5furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA, 98%, Tokyo Chemical Industry) were used without further purification. MilliQ water with a resistivity of 18.2 M $\Omega$ cm was used to prepare all solutions. Moreover, nickel foam (Celmet #8, Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd., Japan) was used as a supporting material to fabricate the working electrodes.

Synthesis of Graphene Oxide (GO): GO was synthesized via the Hummers' method with some minor modifications. [17,31] Typically, NaNO<sub>3</sub> (1.0 g) was mixed with concentrated H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution (100 mL) to obtain solution A. Subsequently, graphite powder (2.0 g) was added to the prepared solution A under vigorous stirring at 0 °C for 30 min. Then, KMnO<sub>4</sub> (8.0 g) was added to the obtained mixture, and the reaction temperature was increased to 35 °C under vigorous stirring for 3 h. Subsequently, MilliQ water (200 mL) was added to the mixture. After adding MilliQ water, the reaction temperature was elevated to 98 °C. Then, the mixture was continuously stirred for 1 h. Afterward, the H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> was added to the solution. Then, the obtained powder was washed with HCl and MilliQ water until the pH of the filtrate was neutral. Finally, the as-synthesized materials were dried under a vacuum at 60 °C for 24 h. The obtained sample was denoted as GO.

Fabrication of x-NiNPs/GO Supported on Ni-Foam for Use as an Anode for HMF Electrooxidation): The obtained GO (200 mg) was initially dispersed MilliQ water (20 mL) by sonication for 2 h. Subsequently, the aqueous solution of Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O was added into the aqueous dispersed GO mixture under vigorous stirring for 24 h at room temperature. Afterward, the powders were recovered by centrifugation, dried at 60 °C under a vacuum, and finally treated under N<sub>2</sub> ambient at 350 °C for 4 h. The obtained powders were denoted as x-NiNPs/GO, where x refers to the weight percentage of NiNPs-loading, which can be 0, 10, 25, and 50 wt.%, on the GO sheets.

To fabricate the desired electrocatalyst, the x-NiNPs/GO composite (1 mg) was dispersed in Nafion (0.5 wt.%) in IPA solution to prepare the catalyst ink. Afterward, the as-prepared catalyst ink was dropwise on the Ni foam support, which has a geometric area of 1 cm<sup>2</sup>. Finally, the x-NiNPs/GO supported on Ni-foam was dried under a vacuum, and the obtained sample was denoted as the x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam for further use as an anode in HMF electrooxidation.

Characterization: The electrocatalyst morphology and the particle size distribution of Ni nanoparticles (NiNPs) on GO sheets were investigated using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) equipped with a JEM-ARM200F (JEOL) microscope performing at 200 kV. Furthermore, the boundary of NiNPs supported on GO was visualized by scanning trans-

mission electron microscopy equipped with an energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometer (STEM-EDX). Moreover, the surface appearance of the x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode was illustrated by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) technique performed on a JSM-7610F (JEOL) field-emission electron microscopy instrument.

The structures of GO, untreated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes, and treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes were examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) using the Bruker D8 ADVANCE model equipped with Cu  $K\alpha$  as the radiation source. A dispersive Raman spectroscopy technique using Brucker with the Senterra model was employed to further visualize the Raman spectra of untreated and treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam characteristics. The Raman spectra were collected in the 50-1530 cm<sup>-1</sup> range by the Olympus Plan N 4x/0.10 objective lens using the Nd-YAG laser at 532 nm with the laser power of 5 mW. Moreover, a Fouriertransform infrared (FTIR) spectrometer using PerkinElmer with universal-ATR model (ATR-FTIR) was used to examine the characteristic vibration band of untreated and treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes. The ATR-FTIR spectra were obtained in the 400-4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> range with 32 scans at 20 cm<sup>-1</sup> resolution. To confirm the existence of a  $\pi$ -conjugated system in the NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, ultraviolet-visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (UV-vis DRS) was performed on the PerkinElmer LAMBDA 1050 model. The UV-vis DRS spectra were obtained over the range of 200 nm to 800 nm using Nafion-Ni-foam as a reference. To gain insight into the electronic properties of untreated and treated NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode, the Ni K-edge X-ray absorption near edge structure (Ni K-edge XANES) experiments were performed in transmission mode at SUT-NANOTEC-SLRI (BL5.2) of the Synchrotron Light Research Institute (SLRI), Thailand. The Ni foil and NiO compounds were used as the chemical standard to represent the oxidation state of Ni<sup>0</sup> and Ni<sup>2+</sup>, respectively. Moreover, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed using the JEOL JPS-9010MC with a twin anode (Mg  $K\alpha$  source, 1253.6 eV, and Al K $\alpha$  source, 148 6.6 eV) at 12 kV and 25 mA. All XPS spectra were analyzed under a high vacuum pressure of 10<sup>-8</sup> Pa at room temperature.

Electrochemical Experiment: The electrochemical characterization was implemented using an Autolab PGSTAT204 equipped with a conventionally electrochemical cell of a three-electrode setup to investigate the electrochemical properties of the x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrode. Generally, x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam, Ag/AgCl (sat. KCl), and platinum gauze were used as working, reference, and counter electrodes, respectively. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of the x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam electrodes with a different weight percentage of Ni contents was measured using cyclic voltammetry in the potential range without Faradaic process to obtain the charging current  $(i_c)$  at various scan rates (v) in 1 M KOH. Subsequently, the double layer capacitance (CDL) was obtained from the plotting slope of  $i_c$  as a function of  $\nu$ . Finally, the ECSA can be calculated as the ratio of  $C_{DL}/C_s$ , in which  $C_s$  refers to a specific capacitance value in 1 M KOH.[32] To determine the suitable potential for HMF electrooxidation, a cyclic voltammetry (CV) technique at different concentrations of HMF (2, 5, and 10 mM) in 0.1 M KOH was applied by sweeping the potential toward the positive direction in the range of 0 mV to 800 mV with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at room temperature.

Moreover, the positive potential for the surface transformation of Ni metal to NiOOH was demonstrated using the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) technique in 0.1 M KOH by sweeping the potential toward the positive direction in the range of 0 mV to 800 mV with the scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. This technique can allow us to understand the two electrochemical events, including the electrochemical formation of NiOOH species and HMF electrooxidation, at the different positive potentials.

To study the catalytic activity of x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam as a working electrode in HMF electrooxidation, the chronoamperometry technique with a constant applied positive potential was carried out using a divided electrochemical cell. In the anodic compartment, the x-NiNPs/GO-Ni-foam and Ag/AgCl (sat. KCl) were placed into the 2 mL of 5 mM HMF in 0.1 M KOH, while the Pt gauze was used as a counter electrode in the cathodic compartment containing a 0.1 M KOH and these two containers were divided by Nafion-115 membrane as shown in Scheme 2. The electrochemical

www.small-journal.com

<span id="page-10-0"></span>oxidation of HMF was performed at room temperature with a stirring rate of 500 rpm.

Product Analysis: To calculate the HMF conversion and product selectivity, the remaining reactant and produced products after the electrocatalytic reaction were collected and analyzed using the calibration method. As shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), the linear calibration curves of the peak area and the concentration of corresponding compounds were demonstrated by the high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) equipped with an internal UV–vis detector. The collected samples were successfully separated using the mixture of 10 mM of  $\rm H_2SO_4$ , methanol, and acetonitrile with a volume ratio of 85:10:5 as a mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.3 mL min<sup>-1</sup> using the C18 column at 30 °C. Indeed, the remaining reactants and products were analyzed at the detection wavelength of 238 nm, except for DFF, which was examined at 305 nm. The HMF conversion, the product selectivity, and the Faradaic efficiency (FE) for FDCA production were calculated by equations (1) to (4).

HMF conversion (%) = 
$$\frac{\text{Converted mole of HMF}}{\text{Initial mole of HMF}} \times 100$$
 (1)

Product selectivity (%) = 
$$\frac{\text{Mole of desired product}}{\text{Converted mole of HMF}} \times 100$$
 (2)

FDCA yield (%) = 
$$\frac{\text{HMF conversion} \times \text{FDCA selectivity}}{100}$$
 (3)

FE for FDCA production (%) = 
$$\frac{\text{Mole of FDCA} \times (6 \times F)}{\text{Total charge passed}} \times 100$$
 (4)

where FE, 6, and F refer to the Faradaic efficiency, the number of electrons transfers in the electrochemical conversion of HMF to FDCA, and Faraday's constant (F = 96 485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>), respectively. In addition, the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) was calculated by equation (5), in which  $C_{DL}$ ,  $C_s$ ,  $i_c$ , and  $\nu$  represent the double layer capacitance ( $C_{DL}$ ), a specific capacitance ( $C_s$ ) value (0.040 mFcm-2), [32–33] the charging current ( $i_c$ ), and the scan rate ( $\nu$ ), respectively.

ECSA 
$$(cm^2) = \frac{C_{DL}}{C_s}$$
 where  $i_c = \nu C_{DL}$  (5)

Computational Studies: Periodic DFT calculations were performed using the Vienna ab initio simulation package (VASP). [34] The projector augmented wave method (PAW) was used to describe electronion interaction. [35] The exchange-correlation energy was described by Perdew–Burke– Ernzerhof functional within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA-PBE), [36] where the electronic wave functions were expanded into plane waves up to 450 eV cut-off energy. The Brillouin zone was sampled using  $3\times3\times2$  Monkhorst-Pack k-points. For the accuracy of prediction, Grimme's DFT-D3 methodology has been included to describe the van der Waals forces, which play an essential role in dispersion interaction. [37]

The Gibbs free energy (G) of the corresponding intermediates was calculated using the computational hydrogen electrode (CHE) model proposed by Nørskov et al.  $^{[38]}$  The chemical potential of the H $^+/e^-$  pair in an aqueous solution was related to that of half of the H $_2$  gas molecule at standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) conditions. According to this method, the G value can be determined as follows:

$$G = \Delta E - T\Delta S + \Delta ZPE \tag{6}$$

where  $\Delta E$  was the reaction energy directly obtained from DFT calculations, and T was the temperature (T=298.15 K).  $\Delta S$  and  $\Delta ZPE$  were the differences between the adsorbed species and the gas phase molecules in entropy and zero-point energy, respectively.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Research Council of Thailand (NRCT) and Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology: VISTEC (grant number: N42A660307) (to C.W.). In addition, this research received financial support from Thailand Science Research and Innovation ((TSRI), the fundamental fund, fiscal year 2024). This research has also received funding support from the NSRF via the Program Management Unit for Human Resources & Institutional Development, Research and Innovation (grant number: B42G670029). Furthermore, S.K. would like to thank Campus France, the French Embassy in Thailand, and the Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology (VISTEC) for a Ph.D. scholarship. The characterization instruments were supported by Frontier Research Centre (FRC) at VISTEC, and the computations were performed on the NSTDA supercomputer (ThaiSC).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

electrochemical pathways, HMF electrooxidation, NiNPs/GO material, periodic DFT calculations, valence state of Ni

Received: January 30, 2024 Revised: March 9, 2024 Published online: March 28, 2024 16136829, 2024, 27, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202400779 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Page 1978). The applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque

- [1] a) L. Jiang, A. Gonzalez-Diaz, J. Ling-Chin, A. Malik, A. P. Roskilly, A. J. Smallbone, Nat. Sustain. 2020, 3, 761; b) A. J. J. E. Eerhart, A. P. C. Faaij, M. K. Patel, Energy Environ. Sci. 2012, 5, 6407.
- [2] a) Y. Roman-Leshkov, C. J. Barrett, Z. Y. Liu, J. A. Dumesic, Nature 2007, 447, 982; b) M. Balakrishnan, E. R. Sacia, A. T. Bell, Green Chem. 2012, 14, 1626; c) S. Salakhum, A. Prasertsab, P. Pornsetmetakul, K. Saenluang, P. Iadrat, M. Chareonpanich, C. Wattanakit, ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 2021, 4, 14047; d) N. Siddiqui, A. S. Roy, R. Goyal, R. Khatun, C. Pendem, A. N. Chokkapu, A. Bordoloi, R. Bal, Sustain. Energy Fuels 2018, 2, 191.
- [3] a) B. J. Taitt, D.-H. Nam, K.-S. Choi, ACS Catal. 2018, 9, 660; b) J. J. Roylance, T. W. Kim, K.-S. Choi, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 1840.
- [4] Q. Qin, T. Heil, J. Schmidt, M. Schmallegger, G. Gescheidt, M. Antonietti, M. Oschatz, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2019, 2, 8359.
- [5] a) T. Cao, M. Wu, V. V. Ordomsky, X. Xin, H. Wang, P. Metivier, M. Pera-Titus, ChemSusChem 2017, 10, 4851; b) K. B. Kokoh, E. M. Belgsir, Tetrahedron Lett. 2002, 43, 229.
- [6] a) M. Park, M. Gu, B. S. Kim, ACS Nano 2020, 14, 6812; b) R. Latsuzbaia, R. Bisselink, A. Anastasopol, H. van der Meer, R. van Heck, M. S. Yagüe, M. Zijlstra, M. Roelands, M. Crockatt, E. Goetheer, E. Giling, J. Appl. Electrochem. 2018, 48, 611.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[7] D. J. Chadderdon, L. Xin, J. Qi, Y. Qiu, P. Krishna, K. L. More, W. Li, *Green Chem.* **2014**, *16*, 3778.
- [8] a) Y. Yang, T. Mu, *Green Chem.* **2021**, *23*, 4228; b) S. R. Kubota, K. S. Choi, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 2138.
- [9] X. Deng, X. Kang, M. Li, K. Xiang, C. Wang, Z. Guo, J. Zhang, X.-Z. Fu, J.-L. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 1138.
- [10] G. Grabowski, J. Lewkowski, R. Skowronski, *Electrochim. Acta* **1991**, *36*, 1995.
- [11] W.-J. Liu, L. Dang, Z. Xu, H.-Q. Yu, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5533.
- [12] B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 13639.
- [13] B. You, N. Jiang, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2016**, *55*, 9913.
- [14] J. Wang, Z. Zhao, C. Shen, H. Liu, X. Pang, M. Gao, J. Mu, F. Cao, G. Li, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2021**, *11*, 2480.
- [15] S. Tantisriyanurak, S. Klinyod, W. Leangsiri, W. Nunthakitgoson, A. Soyphet, M. Ketkaew, A. Thivasasith, P. Iadrat, C. Rodaum, T. Atithep, M. T. Nguyen, T. Yonezawa, C. Wattanakit, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 8784.
- [16] a) N. Heidary, N. Kornienko, *Chem. Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 1798; b) N. Heidary, N. Kornienko, *Chem. Commun.* **2020**, *56*, 8726.
- [17] W. S. Hummers, R. E. Offeman, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1958**, *80*, 1339.
- [18] G. Yasin, M. Arif, M. Shakeel, Y. Dun, Y. Zuo, W. Q. Khan, Y. Tang, A. Khan, M. Nadeem, *Adv. Eng. Mater.* **2018**, *20*, 1701166.
- [19] a) Y. Kwon, K. J. P. Schouten, J. C. van der Waal, E. de Jong, M. T. M. Koper, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 6704; b) S. P. Verevkin, V. N. Emel'yanenko, E. N. Stepurko, R. V. Ralys, D. H. Dzaitsau, *Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.* **2009**, *48*, 10087.
- [20] Y. Zhou, W. Chen, P. Cui, J. Zeng, Z. Lin, E. Kaxiras, Z. Zhang, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 6058.
- [21] T. F. Emiru, D. W. Ayele, *Egypt. J. Basic Appl. Sci.* **2019**, *4*, 74.
- [22] X. Lu, K. H. Wu, B. Zhang, J. Chen, F. Li, B. J. Su, P. Yan, J. M. Chen, W. Qi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2021**, *60*, 14528.
- [23] a) J. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, G. Rao, C. Wu, Y. Hu, X. Wang, R. Lu, Y. Li, J. Xiong, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2019**, *58*, 17458; b) W. Huang, Z. L. Li, Y. D. Peng, S. Chen, J. F. Zheng, Z. J. Niu, *J. Solid State Electrochem.* **2005**, *9*, 284.

- [24] C.-W. Hu, Y. Yamada, K. Yoshimura, *Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells* **2018**, *177*, 120.
- [25] E. Shangguan, H. Tang, Z. Chang, X.-Z. Yuan, H. Wang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2011**, *36*, 10057.
- [26] a) K. K. Lian, D. W. Kirk, S. J. Thorpe, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1995**, *142*, 3704; b) D. Xiong, W. Li, L. Liu, *Chem. Asian. J.* **2017**, *12*, 543.
- [27] Y.-Z. Su, K. Xiao, N. Li, Z.-Q. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 13845.
- [28] C.-W. Hu, Y. Yamada, K. Yoshimura, *J. Mater. Chem. C* **2016**, *4*, 5390.
- [29] a) S. Li, S. Wang, Y. Wang, J. He, K. Li, Y. Xu, M. Wang, S. Zhao, X. Li, X. Zhong, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214488; b) F. B. Liu, N. Lin, L. C. Cong, X. X. Li, F. Y. Han, D. Y. Xin, H. B. Lin, *Chem-CatChem* **2023**, *15*, 202300765; c) B. Zhang, Z. Li, Y. Zhou, Z. Yang, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, e2306663; d) D. Carvajal, R. Arcas, L. Gouda, F. Fabregat-Santiago, E. Mas-Marzá, *Mater. Chem. Phys.* **2024**, *311*, 128510; e) F. J. Holzhäuser, T. Janke, F. Öztas, C. Broicher, R. Palkovits, *Adv. Sustain. Syst.* **2020**, *4*, 1900151; f) M. Cai, S. Ding, B. Gibbons, X. Yang, M. C. Kessinger, A. J. Morris, *Chem. Commun.* **2020**, *56*, 14361.
- [30] X. Wang, X. Liu, C.-J. Tong, X. Yuan, W. Dong, T. Lin, L.-M. Liu, F. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 7762.
- [31] C. Fu, G. Zhao, H. Zhang, S. Li, *Int. J. Electrochem. Sci.* **2013**, *8*, 6269.
- [32] a) S. Iseki, K. Ohashi, S. Nagaura, *Electrochim. Acta* **1972**, *17*, 2249; b) P. Gu, L. Bai, L. Gao, R. Brousseau, B. E. Conway, *Electrochim. Acta* **1992**, *37*, 2145; c) J. Fournier, L. Brossard, J.-Y. Tilquin, R. Côté, J.-P. Dodelet, D. Guay, H. Ménard, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1996**, *143*, 919.
- [33] a) X. Lu, C. Zhao, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6616; b) C. C. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 16977.
- [34] G. Kresse, D. Joubert, *Phys. Rev. B* **1999**, *59*, 1758.
- [35] P. E. Blochl, *Phys. Rev. B.* **1994**, *50*, 17953.
- [36] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Emzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [37] S. Grimme, J. Antony, S. Ehrlich, H. Krieg, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2010**, *132*, 154104.
- [38] J. K. Nørskov, J. Rossmeisl, A. Logadottir, L. Lindqvist, J. R. Kitchin, T. Bligaard, H. Jo´nsson, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 17886.