---
source: Li 等 - 2025 - Engineering the Morphology and Electronic Structure of NiCo2 O4 to Boost the E.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 12.467s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:41:23.707882Z
---

Check for updates

www.chemsuschem.org

# **Engineering the Morphology and Electronic Structure of** NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> to Boost the Electrocatalytic Oxidation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural

Kewang Li,<sup>[a]</sup> Huiying Lu,<sup>[a]</sup> and Huijie Shi\*<sup>[a]</sup>

Electrocatalytic biomass conversion using green electricity is regarded as an important strategy to meet the requirement of sustainable development. NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> electrodes with different morphologies and electronic structures were fabricated by changing the precipitants used in the solvothermal process, and applied in the electrocatalytic 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation (HMFOR). The experimental and theoretical calculation results showed NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> nanosheets (NCO-Ns) with low Co/ Ni ratio exhibited larger adsorption energy towards HMF and superior intrinsic catalytic activity in HMFOR, while NiCo2O4 nanoneedles (NCO-Nn) with larger electrochemical active surface areas presented faster electron transfer kinetics and enhanced catalytic performance for 50 mM HMF with a higher conversion rate (99.9%), 2,5-furanodicarboxylic acid (FDCA) selectivity (98.6%) and faraday efficiency (98.6%). It indicated that compared with NCO-Ns, NCO-Nn providing more active sites was kinetically favorable for improving HMFOR efficiency. In-situ electrochemical Raman investigation revealed that in strong alkaline media, NiOOH formed by the electrochemical reconstruction of NiCo2O4 surface served as the main active species in HMFOR, and an indirect oxidation mechanism was elucidated. This work established the relationship between the electrocatalytic performance of a catalyst and the surface morphology and electronic structure in HMFOR, provided a new idea for improving the electrocatalytic activity of a catalyst, and supported it experimentally.

#### Introduction

Biomass upgrading for production of high value-added chemicals and biofuels is considered to be an effective way to solve the problems of energy shortage and environmental pollution.[1] 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), derived from lignocellulose, is one of the important bridges connecting biomass raw materials and energy chemical industry, which can be converted to a variety of useful products.<sup>[2-3]</sup> Among the possible oxidation products of HMF, 2,5-furanodicarboxylic acid (FDCA) is one of the most important biomass platform compounds, and serves as a precursor for producing the bio-based polymer polyethylene 2,5-furandicarboxylate (PEF), which has great potential to replace the widely used polyethylene terephthalate (PET) derived from fossil energy.<sup>[4]</sup> However, production of FDCA from the traditional thermochemical oxidation of HMF always required harsh reaction conditions, such as high temperature, high pressure of oxygen and strong alkaline reaction conditions, and was highly depended on precious metals as catalysts, thus limiting its application in the actual industrial HMF catalytic conversion.<sup>[5]</sup> In contrast, electrocatalytic process that always operated under mild conditions is a green and sustainable strategy for biomass upgrading due to the rapid development of green electricity. Currently, variety of electrocatalysts have been developed for conversion of HMF to FDCA. Many transition metal compounds based on nickel, cobalt, manganese and iron etc. have shown promising activity in the electrocatalytic HMF oxidation (HMFOR), including the oxides, [6-7] hydroxides, phosphides, sulfides etc. However, developing more efficient electrocatalysts to meet the requirement of high conversion rate, high selectivity and faraday efficiency, and understanding the underlying mechanism for improving the catalytic performance in HMF conversion were still urgent and challenging.

Spinel oxides are prominent in non-precious metal catalysts, such as cobalt oxides (Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>), which have been widely used in electrocatalysis.[14-15] However, attributed to the unsatisfactory conductivity and lack of active sites, the electrocatalytic activity of Co-based catalysts still need to be improved. Compared with Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, spinel NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> with nickel ions partially substituting the cobalt ions in the octahedral sites was a typical binary mixed valence oxide with two redox couples (Ni<sup>3+</sup>/Ni<sup>2+</sup>, Co<sup>3+</sup>/Co<sup>2+</sup>), exhibited significantly enhanced conductivity of 2 orders of magnitude higher and enhanced electrocatalytic activity.[16] Meanwhile, Gao et al found that by tuning the Ni/Co ratio in the nickel cobalt binary oxide, improved electrocatalytic performance could be achieved in biomass conversion compared to the pure Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>.[17] Zhao et al also revealed that the introduction of Ni into Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> could lead to crystal-strain, which was beneficial for the formation of NiOOH which was the main reactive species in HMFOR.[18] Besides, Yang et al found that the intrinsic activity of NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> was noticeably improved in HMF conversion owing to the introduction of anionic defects by F

<sup>[</sup>a] School of Chemical Science and Engineering, and Shanghai Key Lab of Chemical Assessment and Sustainability, Tongji University, Shanghai, China Correspondence: Huijie Shi, School of Chemical Science and Engineering. and Shanghai Key Lab of Chemical Assessment and Sustainability, Tongji University, 1239 Siping Road, Shanghai 200092, China. Email: shihuijie@tongji.edu.cn

<sup>☐</sup> Supporting Information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202402605

doping.[19] Although NiCo2O4 has found intensive application in the fields of water splitting,[20–21] supercapacitors[22–23] etc., its catalytic performance on electrochemical biomass conversion was not fully investigated, especially the relationship between the catalytic performance and the micro morphologies and the electronic structures was not deeply understood.

As a result, in this work a solvothermal method was employed for in-situ grown of spinel NiCo2O4 electrocatalysts on nickel foam with different micro morphologies and electronic structures by simply changing the precipitants used in the solvothermal process. The electrocatalytic HMFOR performance on both the electrodes was investigated, and the reasons for the different electrocatalytic activities of the two electrodes was verified by electrochemical methods, theoretical calculations and in-situ Raman spectroscopy. Furthermore, HMFOR performance on NiCo2O4 nanoneedles was investigated in detail considering different applied potentials and substrate concentrations, the reaction pathway and the oxidation mechanism. This work elucidated the relationships between the electrocatalytic HMFOR performance with the microstructure and electronic structure of the electrocatalysts, and provided valuable experimental and theoretical basis for designing efficient electrocatalysts for biomass conversion.

### **Results and Discussion**

#### **Fabrication and Characterization of NiCo2O4 Anodes**

NiCo2O4 electrodes with different morphologies were successfully prepared using different precipitants via a simple solvothermal method. The microstructurea and elemental distribution of the two electrodes were investigated by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS). As shown in Figure 1, by replacing urea with hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA) as precipitant, the micro morphology of NiCo2O4 changed from the highly dense nanoneedles (NCO-Nn) to the irregular nanosheets (NCO-Ns), and both were composed of nanocrystals with a size of approximate 10 to 20 nm. EDS indicated that the elements of Ni, Co and O were uniformly distributed on the surface of both the electrodes. The lattice fringes could be observed in the high resolution TEM images with a width of about 0.25 nm corresponding to the (311) lattice planes of spinel NiCo2O4. [19] The successful fabrication of spinel crystalline structures of NCO-Ns and NCO-Nn were further proved by the powder X-ray diffraction spectroscopy (XRD) (Figure 2A), where the diffraction peaks at about 18.3°, 30.5°, 36.2°, 44.1°, 58.5° and 64.5° were indexed to the (111), (220), (311), (400), (511) and (440) facets of NiCo2O4 (JCPDS :20–0781) respectively.[24] The polycrystalline structures of the NiCo2O4 electrodes were evidenced by the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns (Figure 1D and H), revealing the continuous diffraction rings corresponding to the (440), (311) and (220) lattice planes of NiCo2O4 in both the electrodes.[25]

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was applied to analyze the elemental composition and the chemical state of NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns electrodes. Figure 2B showed the XPS survey of the two electrodes, and the ratio of Co/Ni on the surface of NCO-Nn was deduced to be about 4.02, significantly higher than that of NCO-Ns (1.25) (Figure 2F), indicating different surface elemental distribution on NiCo2O4 electrodes. Meanwhile, the Co/Ni ratio in bulk NiCo2O4 electrodes were also detected with the inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), showing that both NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns had a Co/Ni ratio close to 2 (Table S1). It suggested that although the bulk composition of NiCo2O4 electrodes remained nearly the same, both the microstructure of NiCo2O4 and the elemental distribution of Ni and Co on the catalysts surface were modified by using different Lewis bases as precipitants in

**Figure 1.** SEM, TEM images and the corresponding SAED patterns of NCO-Nn (A–D) and NCO-Ns (E–H); the inset of A and E were the element mapping of O, Co and Ni.

**Figure 2.** XRD patterns (A), XPS survey (B) and high resolution XPS spectra for O (C), Ni (D), Co (E) and ratio of Co/Ni and M3<sup>+</sup>/M<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> derived from XPS results in NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns.

the solvothermal process, and it would finally lead to different electronic structure and electrocatalytic activity. The O 1s spectra of NiCo2O4 anodes (Figure 2C) could be fitted into three peaks at 529.4 eV, 530.9 eV and 532.3 eV, corresponding to lattice oxygen (O1), surface hydroxylated oxygen (O2) and surface adsorbed oxygen (O3) of NiCo2O4, respectively.[24,26] Among them, the O2 component accounted for nearly half peak area of O 1s spectra, indicating the presence of abundant MOOH (M=Ni or Co) on the electrode surface, which may serve as active species in HMFOR. Meanwhile, the peaks for O species in NCO-Nn shifted towards the lower binding energy compared with NCO-Ns, suggesting that more electrons transferred from the metal elements to oxygen. The Ni 2p spectra (Figure 2D) displayed two satellite peaks and four prominent peaks, and the peaks at around 854.3 eV and 855.8 eV, could be assigned to Ni2<sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively.[19] Meanwhile, the Co 2p spectra (Figure 2E) of both NiCo2O4 anodes also exhibited two doublet peaks except for the satellite peaks, while the peaks around 779.5 eV and 781.0 eV were corresponded to Co3<sup>+</sup> and Co2<sup>+</sup>, respectively.[27] It could be observed that compared with NCO-Ns, the characteristic peaks of Ni and Co species in NCO-Nn shifted towards higher binding energy, indicating that they were easier to be oxidized to higher valence state, leading to the lower onset potential during the electrochemical reaction.[28] Moreover, the ratio of Ni3<sup>+</sup>/Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co3<sup>+</sup>/Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> on the two electrodes surface were obtained from the XPS peaks splitting, and the results were shown in Figure 2F. The Ni3<sup>+</sup>/Ni2<sup>+</sup> ratio (1.32) of NCO-Nn was higher than that of NCO-Ns (1.12), while the Co3<sup>+</sup>/Co2<sup>+</sup> ratio followed the opposite trend. It was

presumed that the different surface electronic structure of the two electrodes would result in different HMFOR performance.

#### **Comparison Investigation on the Electrocatalytic Performance of NiCo2O4 Anodes in HMFOR**

The electrocatalytic performance of NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns in HMFOR was firstly evaluated by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in 1.0 M KOH solution with and without HMF. Both the electrochemical characterization and electrocatalytic HMF conversion were performed in a H-type electrolytic cell separated with a Nafion 117 proton exchange membrane. As shown in Figure 3A, compared with that of oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the lower onset potential and larger current density of HMFOR on the two electrodes suggested the more favorable HMFOR performance. Meanwhile, the potential required to achieve the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in HMFOR was about 1.35 V (vs. RHE) on the surface of NCO-Nn, which was 40 mV lower than that on NCO-Ns (1.39 V vs. RHE). It was reported that Co-based electrocatalysts always exhibited lower onset potential in HMFOR with sluggish kinetics, while Ni-based catalysts had faster kinetics with higher current but relative larger onset potential.[29–30] The LSV results suggested that the higher Co/Ni ratio on NCO-Nn was beneficial to decrease the oxidation potential of HMF, which was consistent with the reported works. The Tafel plots of NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns in 1.0 M KOH with 10 mM HMF were also recorded, and the smaller Tafel

1864564x, 2025, 9, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202402605 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 3.** LSV curves in 1.0 M KOH with and without 10 mM HMF (A), Tafel plots in 1.0 M KOH with 10 mM HMF (B), HMFOR performance at the potential of 1.50 V (vs. RHE) (C) on NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns; The *C*dl (D), LSV curves normalized by ECSA in 1.0 M KOH with and without 10 mM HMF (E), and adsorption energy of HMF and \*OH (F) on the surface of NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns (insets were the adsorption modes of HMF on the electrode surface); OCP curves before and after injecting HMF (G) and the bode phase plots of *in-situ* electrochemical impedance spectra of NCO-Nn (H) and NCO-Ns (I) in 1.0 M KOH and 10 mM HMF.

slope of NCO-Nn indicated the faster electron transfer rate and reaction kinetics compared with NCO-Ns (Figure 3B).

The electrocatalytic HMFOR performance on the two electrodes was also investigated and compared. A theoretical charge of 173.7 C was controlled for the complete conversion of HMF to FDCA through six-electron transfer in the reaction system. The concentration of HMF and the intermediates were monitored by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and calculated through the standard curves (Figure S1). It could be observed in Figure 3C that under the potential of 1.5 V (vs. RHE), HMF conversion rate, FDCA selectivity and faraday efficiency (FE) on NCO-Nn were 98.2%, 98.4% and 96.6%, respectively, which were all higher than that on NCO-Ns. The results proved that NCO-Nn presented an enhanced apparent electrocatalytic HMFOR behavior compared with NCO-Ns.

To explore the reasons for the superior HMFOR performance of NCO-Nn, the electrochemical active surface areas (ECSA) of the two electrodes were determined based on the double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) tests in the non-Faraday region through the cyclic voltammetry curves (Figure S2). As shown in Figure 3D, *C*dl of NCO-Nn (21.4 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ) was approximately 2.3 times that of NCO-Ns (9.2 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), indicating a larger ECSA of NCO-Nn with nanoneedles microstructure, which could provide more active sites for HMFOR. The LSV curves normalized by ESCA were derived and presented in Figure 3E. As shown, opposite to the results in Figure 3A, the current density of NCO-Ns was obviously higher than that on NCO-Nn, suggesting its higher intrinsic activity in electrocatalytic HMFOR. It was further supported by the theoretical calculation of the adsorption energy of HMF on NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns based on the density functional theory (DFT). As shown in Figure 3F, HMF was anchored on the surface of NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns via the formation of Ni-O (aldehyde group) bond. The relative higher adsorption energy of HMF ( 2.60 eV) and \*OH ( 5.49 eV) on NCO-Ns suggested a better electrocatalytic HMFOR activity compared with that of NCO-Nn. The results were consistent with the element distribution on the electrode surface (Figure 2F) that NCO-Ns with a low Co/Ni ratio could provide more Ni sites for HMF adsorption per unit area, considering that Ni atoms were the main active sites for HMF which would be proved afterwards. The adsorption behavior of HMF on the catalyst surface was further studied by the open circuit

potential (OCP) test based on the changes before and after addition of adsorbed substances.[31–32] It was observed in Figure 3G that after addition of 10 mM HMF, OCP of NCO-Nn decreased by about 131 mV, which was slightly larger than that of NCO-Ns (109 mV), indicating that more HMF were adsorbed on the surface of NCO-Nn. The results were contradictory to the calculated adsorption energy of HMF on the two electrodes. It was speculated that when detecting the OCP, the geometric area of the electrodes was kept the same, and the adsorption behavior of HMF on the electrode surface could be influenced by both the ECSA of the electrode and the adsorption affinity between them. Although the binding affinity between HMF and NCO-Ns was higher than that of NCO-Nn, the ECSA of NCO-Nn was about 2.3 times that of NCO-Ns. The two factors worked together so that more HMF was adsorbed on NCO-Nn, leading to the relatively larger OCP changes after adsorption of HMF.

Operando electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was further used to reveal the different interfacial dynamics and electron transfer behavior on the two electrodes in the process of electrocatalytic HMFOR. The Bode diagrams of NCO-Nn and NCO-Ns recorded in the absence and presence of HMF were illustrated in Figure S3 and Figure 3. Generally, the phase angle changes in high frequency region (101 ~10<sup>5</sup> Hz) is related to the surface oxidation of the catalysts, whereas that in the low frequency region (0.1~101 Hz) is corresponding to the oxidation of substrates (HMFOR).[33–34] As observed, the significantly small phase angle in the high frequency region for both the electrodes indicated the weak self-oxidation on the electrode surface, which may be due to the strong metal-oxygen bond in spinel NiCo2O4. [19] On the contrary, in the low frequency region, the phase angle of NCO-Nn gradually decreased in the potential range of 1.15–1.35 V (vs. RHE) attributed to the oxidation of HMF. Then, due to the passivation of the electrode, the phase angle increased. When the potential reached 1.55 V (vs. RHE), OER gradually dominated and the phase angle decreased again. NCO-Ns showed similar phenomenon. By comparison of the two electrodes, it was found that under the same potential, the phase angle of NCO-Nn in the low frequency region was much lower than that of NCO-Ns, suggesting a faster interface charge transfer and HMFOR kinetics on NCO-Nn. This result was consistent with that of Tafel plots (Figure 3B). The above results suggested that the electrocatalytic HMFOR was more favorable thermodynamically on NCO-Ns with higher intrinsic activity. However, the difference of intrinsic activity between the two electrodes was not significant and decisive. In this circumstance, ECSA played a more important role in improving the HMFOR performance. Since that the ECSA of NCO-Nn was much higher than that of NCO-Ns, it provided more active sites for HMF conversion and exhibited superiority in kinetics, leading to the high apparent current density and HMF conversion efficiency.

## **Performance and Mechanism of HMFOR on NCO-Nn**

Then the electrocatalytic performance of HMFOR on NCO-Nn was investigated in detail. As shown in Figure S4, the increment of current density before and after addition of HMF increased with the anodic potential at first, reached the highest at about 1.5 V (vs. RHE), and then decreased, indicating OER dominated at higher potentials. The electrocatalytic performance of HMFOR on NCO-Ns also followed the same trend. Therefore, HMF conversion at different potentials was conducted. As shown in Figure 4A, the conversion of HMF and the yields of oxidation products were closely related to the applied potential. In the potential range of 1.35–1.50 V (vs. RHE), the conversion rate of HMF gradually increased from 83.2% at 1.35 V (vs. RHE), and at 1.50 V (vs. RHE), the conversion rate (98.2%), FDCA selectivity (98.4%) and FE of FDCA (96.6%) all reached the highest (Figure 4B). After 1.50 V (vs. RHE), the conversion of HMF decreased slightly to 93.2% at 1.55 V (vs. RHE), and dropped to 58.2% at 1.65 V (vs. RHE) owing to OER competition, where the FE of FDCA decreased simultaneously. Moreover, NCO-Nn exhibited enhanced HMF conversion efficiency towards highconcentration HMF (Figure S5). At the potential of 1.50 V (vs. RHE), approximately 100% conversion rate of HMF and up to 98.6% FDCA yield and FE were obtained in HMFOR with HMF concentration of 50 mM. The electrocatalytic performance of NCO-Nn in HMFOR was comparative and even superior compared with the reported Co and Ni based electrocatalysts, especially that used in high-concentration HMF conversion (Table S2). However, when the concentration of HMF increased to 100 mM, the selectivity and FE of FDCA decreased to about 80%, and coloration of the solution occurred owing to the undesirable decomposition into humins under strong alkaline conditions.[35]

The stability and recyclability of NCO-Nn in HMFOR was also evaluated. Five consecutive cycles of HMF conversion on the surface of NCO-Nn were carried out, and the results showed NCO-Nn maintained satisfactory catalytic performance after five continuous electrolysis experiments (Figure 4C). In addition, SEM images and Raman spectra of NCO-Nn after usage (Figure S6) showed that the micro morphology and chemical composition of the electrode didn't change obviously after reaction. The XPS spectra of NCO-Nn (Figure S7) indicated that Ni, Co and O elements were still uniformly distributed on the electrode surface after the reaction, and Ni3<sup>+</sup>/Ni2<sup>+</sup> decreased significantly after the reaction due to the consumption of high valance species in HMF conversion, which could be regenerated in the electrochemical process. All the results proved the excellent recyclability and stability of NCO-Nn.

The conversion pathway of HMF on NCO-Nn was then investigated. HMF conversion and the evolution of intermediates were monitored at 1.50 V (vs. RHE), and the results were shown in Figure 4D and E. As shown, the concentration of HMF decreased rapidly in 1 hour while that of FDCA increased during the whole conversion process. Only a small amount of HMFCA and a trace amount of FFCA were detected, which increased and then decreased with time. However, during the whole process no DFF was detected. Therefore, we could infer that the oxidation of HMF on NCO-Nn mainly followed path 1 as illustrated in Figure 4F. Firstly, the aldehyde group of HMF adsorbed on the Ni sites was oxidized to carboxyl group forming HMFCA, and then the hydroxyl group of HMFCA was further oxidized to form FFCA, and finally to FDCA. This

1864564x, 2025, 9, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202402605 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** Conversion rate of HMF and the products yield (A), FDCA selectivity and faraday efficiency (B) on NCO-Nn at different potentials (10 mM HMF, 1 M KOH); HMFOR performance of NCO-Nn with consecutive 5-cycles experiments (C); Evolution of HMFOR intermediates on NCO-Nn in about 1 h at 1.50 V (vs. RHE) (D) and the HPLC (E); the adsorption behavior of HMF, HMFCA, FFCA and DFF on NCO-Nn (G); the passible reaction pathway of HMF (F); the electrocatalytic oxidation kinetic curves of HMF, DFF, HMFCA and FFCA on NCO-Nn (H).

presumption was consistent with the adsorption behavior of the intermediates on the surface of NCO-Nn. As that could be observed in Figure 4G, NCO-Nn showed the strongest adsorption towards DFF containing two aldehyde groups, while the adsorption of HMFCA without aldehyde group was the weakest. It indicated that the presence of aldehyde group rather than hydroxyl group was beneficial for the adsorption on NCO-Nn surface. It was also consistent with the DFT calculation that HMF was adsorbed on the NCO-Nn surface by the formation of Ni-O bond with the aldehyde group. And this may be the reason for the preferential oxidation of aldehyde group in HMFOR, leading to the formation of HMFCA. The electrocatalytic oxidation of HMFCA, FFCA and DFF was also performed on NCO-Nn (Figure S8), and the kinetic curves were illustrated in Figure 4H. The reaction rate of HMF was the slowest with a rate constant of 3.3 h <sup>1</sup> , indicating that HMF oxidation may be the rate determining step.

To further elucidate the oxidation mechanism of HMFOR, cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of NCO-Nn in 1 M KOH without and with HMF of different concentration were recorded and presented in Figure 5A. As illustrated, the CV curve recorded in KOH (black line) showed redox peaks at around 1.40 V and 1.25 V (vs. RHE), corresponding to the conversion of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>!Ni3<sup>+</sup> !Ni2<sup>+</sup>. After the addition of HMF, the highest HMFOR current density was basically increased linearly proportional to HMF concentration (inset of Figure 5A), indicating that the electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF was a diffusion-controlled process.[36] At the same time, it was noted that when HMF was added (red line), the reduction peak current significantly weakened, and almost completely disappeared when the concentration of HMF increased to 100 mM (purple line), indicating that indirect oxidation of HMF occurred. In this process, Ni2<sup>+</sup> on the electrode surface was electrochemically oxidized to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, which then extracted an electron from HMF and was reduced back to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (Figure 5C). This phenomenon was consistent with most of the reported works concerning Ni based catalysts.[37–38] This presumption was further proved by the multi-potential step I-t curves (Figure 5B). NCO-Nn was firstly electrolyzed at 1.50 V (vs. RHE) for 100 s in 1.0 M KOH solution (black line), and then electrolyzed at OCP (red line) after stayed in disconnected circuit for 300 s. A reduction current could be observed at the moment of potential switching, which indicated that a large

**Figure 5.** (A) CV curves of NCO-Nn in 1 M KOH without and with HMF of different concentrations (inset: the linear relationship between the highest peak current of HMFOR and HMF concentration); (B) multi-potential step curves of NCO-Nn for HMFOR; (C) schematic illustration of the HMFOR mechanisn in the electrocatalytic process; in-situ Raman spectra of NCO-Nn taken in 1 M KOH without (D) and with (E) HMF at different potentials; (F) in-situ Raman spectra of NCO-Nn monitoring the structure changes with time after disconnected the circuit.

amount of Ni3<sup>+</sup> produced at 1.50 V (vs. RHE) was reduced to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> at OCP; However, no reduction current (blue line) was detected if excess HMF was injected at the time period of disconnecting circuit, indicating that Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> produced by electrolysis at high potential (1.50 V vs. RHE) was completely consumed by HMF. As shown in Figure S9, we also monitored the OCP changes after electrolysis of NCO-Nn at 1.50 V (vs. RHE). When there was no HMF in KOH (red line), the conversion of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> was very slow,[39] and it was not completely reduced after 8 h. However, in the presence of HMF (blue line), Ni3<sup>+</sup> was rapidly reduced to Ni2<sup>+</sup> (Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> +HMF!Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> +HMFox) within 0.5 h and stabilized after 1 h.

The indirect oxidation mechanism of HMFOR on NCO-Nn was further investigated by in-situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy. Figure 5D–E showed the Raman spectra of NCO-Nn in KOH with and without HMF. It could be observed in Figure 5D that with the potential gradually increased from OCP to 1.30 V (vs. RHE), the characteristic peaks attributed to the Eg and A1g vibration modes of NiOOH appeared at 465 cm <sup>1</sup> and 545 cm <sup>1</sup> respectively[40–41] and gradually increased owing to the accumulation of Ni3<sup>+</sup> species on the electrode surface. After the addition of HMF (Figure 5E), the peak signals of Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O bond also appeared at 1.30 V (vs. RHE), but they were all significantly weaker than that without HMF at the same potential, indicating that part of generated Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> was consumed by HMFOR. It was worth noting that peaks at 508 cm <sup>1</sup> and 608 cm <sup>1</sup> reported to be the characteristic vibration of Co-O bond in CoOOH[42] were not detected in the whole investigated potential range, indicating that the main reactive species in HMFOR was Ni3<sup>+</sup> on NiCo2O4, usually in the form of NiOOH. The reaction of Ni3<sup>+</sup> and HMF was also verified by another experiment: electrocatalytic HMFOR was firstly performed at 1.50 V (vs. RHE) for ten minutes, and then disconnected the circuit. Then the characteristic peaks of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O was monitored by in-situ Raman spectroscopy, and it was found that the peaks at 465 cm <sup>1</sup> and 545 cm <sup>1</sup> gradually weakened and completely disappeared after 300 s (Figure 5F), further confirming that the reaction of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species and HMF continued without electric field, and the process was chemical spontaneous in thermodynamics. All the results proved that HMFOR process on the surface of NCO-Nn followed an indirect oxidation mechanism with NiOOH as main reactive species (Figure 5C).

## **Conclusions**

In this work, we reported the successful fabrication of NiCo2O4 electrodes with different micro morphologies and electronic structures and their different electrocatalytic activity in HMFOR. In-situ Raman investigation revealed that Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species formed by the electrochemical surface reconstruction of NiCo2O4 was the main active sites for HMF adsorption and oxidation. For

NCO-Nn with higher Co/Ni ratio, it provided relative less Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> sites per unit area compared with NCO-Ns, and was adverse to the adsorption and conversion of HMF, resulting in the lower intrinsic catalytic activity in HMFOR. DFT calculation also revealed that the binding affinity of HMF on NCO-Nn was slightly smaller than that on NCO-Ns. However, NCO-Nn with nanoneedles microstructure was endowed with high ECSA and more active sites. In the circumstance that the difference of intrinsic activity between the two electrodes were not significant and decisive, higher ECSA played a more important role in improving the apparent HMFOR performance in bulk electrolysis, so that NCO-Nn exhibited enhanced HMF conversion efficiency and faster electron transfer kinetics. The results showed that HMF were electrochemically converted via an indirect oxidation mechanism, and at the potential of 1.50 V vs. RHE, HMF conversion was nearly 100% with FDCA selectivity and FE of 98.6% in 1 M KOH containing 50 mM HMF. The work established the relationship between the electrocatalytic HMFOR performance and the surface properties of the catalysts, and provided deeper understanding of the HMFOR mechanism. It suggested that compared with the thermodynamic factors, the kinetic superiority such as large ECSA with more active sites also contributed a lot to HMF conversion efficiency.

# *Acknowledgments*

This work was supported by the Science & Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (14DZ2261100).

### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** Electrocatalysis **·** 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural **·** Morphology **·** Electronic structure **·** Surface adsorption

- [1] K. Wang, Z. Li, Z. Guo, J. Huang, T. Liu, M. Zhou, J. Hu, H. Li, *Green [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3GC04543A)* **[2024](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3GC04543A)**, *26*, 2454.
- [2] P. Zhu, M. Shi, Z. Shen, X. Liao, Y. Chen, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D4SC00546E) Sci.* **2024**, *15*, 4723.
- [3] Y. Gao, L. Ge, H. Xu, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S. Qiao, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02272)* **2023**, *13*, [11204.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02272)
- [4] K. Galkin, V. Ananikov, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201900592)* **2019**, *12*, 2976.
- [5] H. Liu, X. Tang, X. Zeng, Y. Sun, X. Ke, T. Li, J. Zhang, L. Lin, *Green [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2021.10.004) & [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gee.2021.10.004)* **2022**, *7*, 900.
- [6] X. Lu, D. Wang, X. Dai, Y. Li, X. Qin, W. Qi, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.154092) Eng. J.* **2024**, *496*, [154092](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.154092).
- [7] D. Liu, Y. Li, C. Wang, H. Yang, R. Wang, S. Li, X. Yang, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2023.119497) A* **2024**, *669*, [119497.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2023.119497)

- [8] G. Liu, T. Nie, Z. Song, X. Sun, T. Shen, S. Bai, T. Yu, L. Zheng, Y. Song, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2411284.
- [9] R. Zhong, P. Wu, Q. Wang, X. Zhang, L. Du, Y. Liu, H. Yang, M. Gu, Z. Zhang, L. Huang, S. Ye, *Green [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3GC00588G)* **2023**, *25*, 4674.
- [10] H. Wang, C. Niu, W. Liu, S. Tao, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2024**, *340*, [123249](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.123249).
- [11] H. Xu, J. Bi, T. Sang, W. Wang, J. Hao, Z. Li, *Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC02083E)* **2023**, *59*, [8440.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3CC02083E)
- [12] P. Xu, Z. Bao, Y. Zhao, L. Zheng, Z. Lv, X. Shi, H. Wang, X. Fang, H. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2303557.
- [13] D. Xiao, X. Bao, D. Dai, Y. Gao, S. Si, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, P. Wang, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, Y. Dai, B. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304133.
- [14] L. Cai, Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Q. Jia, J. Guan, H. Sun, Y. Yu, Y. Huang, *J. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2023.12.002) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2023.12.002)* **2024**, *92*, 95.
- [15] F. Haase, E. Ortega, S. Saddeler, F. Schmidt, D. Cruz, F. Scholten, M. Ruscher, A. Martini, H. Jeon, A. Herzog, U. Hejral, E. Davis, J. Timoshenko, A. Knop-Gericke, T. Lunkenbein, S. Schulz, A. Bergmann, B. Roldan Cuenya, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE02809G) Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 2046.
- [16] Y. Su, Q. Xu, G. Chen, H. Cheng, N. Li, Z. Liu, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.06.092) Acta* **2015**, *174*, [1216.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.06.092)
- [17] L. Gao, Y. Bao, S. Gan, Z. Sun, Z. Song, D. Han, F. Li, L. Niu, *[ChemSusChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201800695)* **[2018](https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201800695)**, *11*, 2547.
- [18] Z. Zhou, Y. Xie, L. Sun, Z. Wang, W. Wang, L. Jiang, X. Tao, L. Li, X. Li, G. Zhao, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *305*, [121072.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121072)
- [19] S. Yang, X. Xiang, Z. He, W. Zhong, C. Jia, Z. Gong, N. Zhang, S. Zhao, Y. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *457*, [141344](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2023.141344).
- [20] H. Shi, G. Zhao, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2014**, *118*, [25939.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp508977j)
- [21] T. Sahu, J. Saha, A. Anil, G. Salazar-Alvarez, M. Johnsson, *ACS Appl. [Energ.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.4c00386) [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.4c00386)* **2024**, *7*, 4445.
- [22] C. Yuan, J. Li, L. Hou, X. Zhang, L. Shen, X. Lou, *Adv. Funct. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201200994)* **2012**, *22*, [4592.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.201200994)
- [23] A. Lakshmi-Narayana, N. Attarzadeh, V. Shutthanandan, C. Ramana, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2316379.
- [24] Y. Song, Z. Li, K. Fan, Z. Ren, W. Xie, Y. Yang, M. Shao, M. Wei, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120669) Catal. B.* **2021**, *299*, [120669.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120669)
- [25] B. Zhang, Z. Li, Y. Zhou, Z. Yang, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Small* **2023**, *19*, e2306663.
- [26] X. Huang, J. Song, M. Hua, Z. Xie, S. Liu, T. Wu, G. Yang, B. Han, *[Green](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9GC03698A) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9GC03698A)* **2020**, *22*, 843.
- [27] G. Zhao, G. Hai, P. Zhou, Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, B. Peng, W. Xia, X. Huang, G. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213170.
- [28] Z. Yang, S. Wang, C. Wei, L. Chen, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE04543A) Sci.* **[2024](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE04543A)**, *17*, 1603.
- [29] K. Hung, J. Wu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *484*, [149772](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2024.149772).
- [30] Y. Yang, T. Mu, *Green [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1GC00914A)* **2021**, *23*, 4228.
- [31] N. Heidary, N. Kornienko, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0SC00136H) Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 1798.
- [32] M. Yang, Y. Li, C. Dong, S. Li, L. Xu, W. Chen, J. Wu, Y. Lu, Y. Pan, Y. Wu, Y. Luo, Y. Huang, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304203.
- [33] Y. Song, W. Xie, Y. Song, H. Li, S. Li, S. Jiang, J. Y. Lee, M. Shao, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121400) Catal. B.* **2022**, *312*, [121400.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121400)
- [34] Y. Wu, L. Ma, J. Wu, M. Song, C. Wang, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311698.
- [35] H. Wang, L. Xu, J. Wu, P. Zhou, S. Tao, Y. Lu, X. Wu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Chin. J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(22)64203-7)* **2023**, *46*, 148.
- [36] M. Cai, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Li, G. Li, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA07793C) Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, [20386.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA07793C)
- [37] D. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Cao, L. Wang, H. Lee, G. Lin, W. Li, G. Ding, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202309478.
- [38] R. Luo, Y. Li, L. Xing, R. Zhong, Z. Qian, G. Yin, Y. Wang, L. Du, *[Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121357) Catal. B.* **2022**, *311*, [121357.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121357)
- [39] X. Pang, H. Bai, H. Zhao, W. Fan, W. Shi, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c04880)* **2022**, *12*, 1545.
- [40] Z. Yang, B. Zhang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122590) B.* **2023**, *330*, [122590.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122590)
- [41] G. Zhang, R. Yu, Y. Zhou, W. Lu, F. Cao, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3NR02896H)* **2023**, *15*, 13750.
- [42] L. Reith, C. Triana, F. Pazoki, M. Amiri, M. Nyman, G. Patzke, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c03375) Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [15022](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c03375).

Manuscript received: December 7, 2024 Revised manuscript received: December 23, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: December 23, 2024 Version of record online: January 8, 2025