---
source: Li 等 - 2025 - Synergistically Enhanced Co‐Adsorption of Reactant and Hydroxyl on Platinum‐Modified Copper Oxide fo.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 41.937s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:42:13.186092Z
---

# **Synergistically Enhanced Co-Adsorption of Reactant and Hydroxyl on Platinum-Modified Copper Oxide for High-Performance HMF Oxidation**

*Jiaran Li, Rongxing Qiu, Siwang Zhang, Li Peng,\* Yangyang Dong, Yuan Jiang, Yin Li, Nan Fang, Jia Yu, Jin-Chao Dong, Haohui Zheng, Lingzhi Ding, Jinlong Wan, Isil Akpinar, Junhua Kuang, Gaofeng Chen, Jinyu Ye, Yong Sun, Lu Lin, Shisheng Zheng,\* Shuliang Yang,\* Jun Li,\* and Jian-Feng Li\**

**Electrochemical oxidation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) provides an environmentally friendly route for producing the sustainable polymer monomer 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA). Thus, precisely adjusting the synergistic adsorption among key reactive species, such as HMF and OHads, on the carefully designed catalyst surface is essential for achieving satisfactory catalytic performance for HMF oxidation to FDCA as it is closely related to the adsorption strength and configuration of the reaction substrates. This kind of regulation will ultimately facilitate the improvement of HMF oxidation performance. In this work, Pt nanoparticles modified CuO nanowires (denoted as Pt/CuO@CF) are constructed for the selective electrooxidation of HMF to FDCA under alkaline conditions. The well-designed Pt/CuO@CF demonstrates highly impressive catalytic performance across a range of HMF concentrations, ranging from the commonly used concentrations to higher levels typically not explored (10, 25, 50, 75, and 100 mm) with high FEFDCA (all above 95%) and outstanding long-term stability (15 cycles). In situ experimental characterizations confirm that the designed heterogeneous interface between Pt and CuO enhances the enrichment of HMF and OHads species on the catalyst surface. Theoretical calculations reveal the anchored Pt nanoparticles reduce the adsorption barrier for HMF and OHads, thereby promoting the highly selective oxidation of HMF to FDCA.**

## **1. Introduction**

Biomass is considered as a renewable energy source derived from plants and animals because the released carbon dioxide during its combustion is part of the natural carbon cycle, and the new plants can absorb the same amount of carbon dioxide during their growth.[\[1\]](#page-11-0) Thus, the efficient utilization of biomass has the potential to reduce the dependence of fossil fuels, mitigate greenhouse gas emissions, and contribute to a more sustainable and ecofriendly energy system.[\[2\]](#page-11-0) From a chemical perspective, biomass, as a raw material, can also be chemically converted to a variety of fine chemicals such as furfurals, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), levulinic acids, and so on.[\[3\]](#page-11-0) Among these, HMF is a vital biomass platform molecule obtained through the dehydration of isomerized C6 sugars. It can be further selectively transformed into a variety of valueadded chemicals. A prime example is the HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR), which offers a viable pathway to produce the

J. Li, R. Qiu, S. Zhang, L. Peng, N. Fang, L. Ding, J. Wan, J. Ye, J. Li, J.-F. Li Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Xiamen University

Xiamen, Fujian 361005, P. R. China

E-mail: [li.peng@xmu.edu.cn;](mailto:li.peng@xmu.edu.cn) [junnyxm@xmu.edu.cn;](mailto:junnyxm@xmu.edu.cn) [li@xmu.edu.cn](mailto:li@xmu.edu.cn)

Y. Dong, Y. Jiang, J. Yu, J.-C. Dong, H. Zheng, J. Kuang, Y. Sun, L. Lin,

S. Zheng, S. Yang, J.-F. Li College of Energy Xiamen University

Xiamen, Fujian 361102, P. R. China

E-mail: [zhengss@xmu.edu.cn;](mailto:zhengss@xmu.edu.cn) [ysl@xmu.edu.cn](mailto:ysl@xmu.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202417684>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202417684**

Y. Li Department of Chemical Physics University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230026, P. R. China

I. Akpinar

Department of Chemistry and International Institute of Nanotechnology Northwestern University

2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL 60208, USA

G. Chen

College of Environmental Engineering Henan University of Technology Zhengzhou, Henan 450001, P. R. China

www.advmat.de

321 4095, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417684 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (0501/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (they continuely and conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License and Conditions (they continuely and conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

important chemical 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA).<sup>[4]</sup> FDCA is a valuable near-market product derived from HMF oxidation, which is regarded as one of the twelve priority compounds in green chemical industries.<sup>[5]</sup> Moreover, it is a highly promising monomer for synthesizing bio-based poly(ethylene-2,5-furandicarboxylate) (PEF) polymer, which holds significant potential to replace the poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET), traditionally derived from the petroleum-based terephthalic acid (TA).<sup>[6]</sup> Nevertheless, the traditional synthetic process for converting HMF to FDCA has primarily been conducted at relatively harsh reaction conditions in liquid-phase thermocatalytic reaction systems. These conditions inevitably lead to increased costs and operational risks in practical applications, especially when considering modern green chemistry principles.<sup>[7]</sup>

Compared to the traditional thermocatalytic HMFOR, the electrocatalytic technique provides a greener approach for effectively converting HMF to FDCA under mild conditions. Previous studies revealed that Fe, Mn, Mo, Ni, Cu, and Co-based materials exhibit remarkable performance in HMFOR.[3d,8] Among these catalysts, Cu-based materials have emerged as promising electrocatalysts for HMFOR due to their relatively weak oxygen evolution reaction (OER) activity compared to other transition metal oxides. Shi's group designed a self-supported Cu(OH)2 electrode for efficient production of FDCA, maximizing the geometric activity by eliminating the need for additional adhesive. [9] However, the activity and stability of Cu-based catalysts in HMFOR remain limited due to the restricted exposure of active sites, which hampers the adsorption and activation of substrates. Furthermore, the understanding of the adsorption behavior of reactants on these catalysts remains elusive, despite being a topic that merits indepth investigation. To address these challenges and facilitate the practical implementation of electrochemical HMFOR, research efforts should prioritize the design of copper-based catalysts featuring multiple catalytically active sites. This strategy specifically aims to achieve high activity, selectivity, and stability for HMFOR.

Recently, the formation of heterostructures and the introduction of hybrids have been recognized as advisable approaches for enhancing the catalytic activity in HMFOR. The interactive electron transfers among multiple components could significantly impact the adsorption and desorption behaviors of reactive species on the catalyst surface, allowing for the precise regulation of catalytic activity. For example, mesoporous NiO-supported Pt nanoparticles (Pt/NiO)<sup>[10]</sup> and Pt/C<sup>[11]</sup> have been reported for the selective production of FDCA in thermocatalytic systems. Wang et al. synthesized a series of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub><sup>[12]</sup> and Pt<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>100-x</sub> bundle nanowires<sup>[13]</sup> with Pt modification, which optimized the HMF/OH<sub>ads</sub> adsorption capacity and enhanced the HMF oxidative activity. These creative works logically unveil an important clue: introducing a secondary component such as Pt, analogous to a coenzyme in enzymatic systems, to construct Pt-modified Cu-based bimetallic catalysts might potentially address the slow reaction kinetics in HMFOR by regulating the adsorption behavior of the reactive species, thus efficiently accelerating HMF conversion to FDCA.

Herein, we synthesized a heterogeneous Pt/CuO@CF electrocatalyst for high-performance HMFOR. The as-prepared Pt/CuO@CF catalyst is composed of dispersed Pt nanoparticles on CuO nanowires (CuO-NWs) arrays, in situ derived from a copper foam (CF) support via a simple chemical oxidation and im-

pregnation method. Benefiting from the introduced assistant Pt sites, the Pt/CuO@CF displayed outstanding anodic catalytic activity for HMFOR, achieving a significantly higher current density (119 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.50 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)), compared to the CuO@CF counterpart (62 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.50 V versus RHE). After comprehensive product analysis, HMF conversion of 99% and yield/FE of 99% for FDCA were achieved in 1.0 м KOH electrolyte with 10 mм HMF concentration under ambient conditions. Meanwhile, the excellent catalytic performance for selectively converting HMF to FDCA was further demonstrated when using Pt/CuO@CF as the anodic catalyst in electrolytes with higher HMF concentrations (25, 50, 75, and 100 mm with  $FE_{FDCA}$  all above 95%). Combination of cyclic tests and in situ Raman characterization confirmed that Pt/CuO@CF exhibits well catalytic and structural stability. Additionally, theoretical calculations and in situ attenuated-totalreflection surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (in situ ATR-SEIRAS) results verified that anchoring Pt over CuO significantly enhanced the adsorption ability of HMF and OH<sub>ads</sub> on the catalyst surface, facilitating the rapid conversion of HMF to FDCA. This work clearly elucidates the intrinsic relationship between improved HMFOR performance and the adsorption behaviors of HMF/OH<sub>ads</sub> on the Pt/CuO@CF heterogeneous interface. It also promisingly provides a valid strategy for designing high-performance electrocatalysts aimed at converting biomass into high value-added chemicals.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Characterization of Electrocatalysts

The 3D Pt/CuO@CF structure, doped with Pt nanoparticles, was successfully fabricated using a facile three-step method (Figure 1a). Initially,  $Cu(OH)_2$ @CF was synthesized through a wet-chemical process employing the commercial porous CF as a support to increase the electrochemical active surface area. Subsequently, the obtained  $Cu(OH)_2$ @CF was immersed into a specified concentration of chloroplatinic acid aqueous solution for 2 h. After that, the Pt-Cu(OH)<sub>2</sub>@CF was annealed under argon atmosphere to obtain the Pt/CuO@CF catalyst (see details in Experimental Section).

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) demonstrated that Pt/CuO with nanowires structure was successfully grown onto the surface of CF (Figure 1b,c; Figure S1, Supporting Information). Compared to the pure CuO@CF, the nanowire morphology of Pt/CuO@CF was preserved after the successive Pt impregnation and thermal treatment (Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information). TEM images of Pt/CuO@CF displayed the distinct Pt nanoparticles, contrasting with the morphology of pure CuO (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Pt (111) facet was also clearly observed in the HRTEM image and the aberrationcorrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM) image, which fully confirmed the Pt nanoparticles exist on the CuO matrix (Figure 1d; Figure S4, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, AC HAADF-STEM images revealed that Pt nanoparticles have an average size of 1.5 nm (Figure S5, Supporting Information). High-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image and the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Characterizations of Pt/CuO@CF catalyst. a) Schematic illustration of the Pt/CuO@CF electrode synthesis. b) SEM, c) TEM, d) HRTEM images and e–h) the corresponding elemental mapping images of Pt/CuO@CF.

corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping further revealed a uniform elemental distribution of Cu, O, and Pt over the entire architecture (Figure 1e–h). Moreover, the precise Pt content was determined to be 1.30 wt.%, as confirmed by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) (Table S1, Supporting Information). Overall, these results indicated that the evenly dispersed Pt species were successfully introduced into the CuO matrix.

To further understand the detailed structural information, powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) was applied to investigate the crystalline phase transformation from CF to Pt/CuO@CF. Three distinct peaks at 43.3°, 50.4°, and 74.1° were observed in the PXRD pattern, which were ascribed to the characteristic peaks of metallic Cu (JCPDS card No. 04–0836) (Figure S6, Supporting Information). After the chemical oxidation step, two new diffraction peaks located at 16.6° and 23.7° were observed, indicating the formation of Cu(OH)2 phase (JCPDS card No. 13–0420). Subsequently, Pt species were introduced into the Cu(OH)2@CF via an ion exchange approach,[\[14\]](#page-11-0) and no discernible difference was observed in the PXRD patterns of Pt-Cu(OH)2@CF compared to the pristine Cu(OH)2@CF. After thermal annealing, the diffraction peaks of the as-synthesized Pt/CuO@CF locate at 35.4° and 38.5°, corresponding to the (002) and (111) facets of CuO (JCPDS card No. 45–0937), respectively, with no presence of other impurities (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0). This observation is consistent with the HRTEM characterization. However, no visible plane diffraction peaks of Pt

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417684 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Structure characterizations of Pt/CuO@CF catalyst. a) PXRD patterns of copper foam (CF), CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF. b) High-resolution Cu 2p XPS spectra of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF. c) High-resolution Pt 4f XPS spectrum of Pt/CuO@CF. d) Pt  $L_3$ -edge normalized XANES and e) Pt  $L_3$ -edge EXAFS spectra in R space of Pt foil, PtO $_2$  and Pt/CuO@CF, respectively. f) Pt  $L_3$ -edge EXAFS spectra of the simulated R space. g-i) Wavelet transform plots of the Pt foil, Pt/CuO@CF and PtO $_2$ , respectively.

metal nanoparticles were detected in Pt/CuO@CF due to the low loading content, small size and high dispersion of Pt species on the CuO surface. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was employed to examine the valence state information of surface components and the electronic interaction between CuO and Pt nanoparticles. The XPS survey spectra of Pt/CuO@CF and CuO@CF were displayed in Figure S7 (Supporting Information), demonstrating the coexistence of Cu, Pt and O elements in Pt/CuO@CF after introducing Pt species. Moreover, the high-resolution XPS spectra (Figure 2b) show that two main peaks at 933.6 and 953.5 eV together with their satellite peaks at  $\approx$ 941.2, 943.7, and 962.3 eV, which are attributed to the Cu(II)  $2p_{3/2}$  and Cu(II)  $2p_{1/2}$  peaks, indicating the presence of CuO in Pt/CuO@CF. The Auger electron spectroscopy (AES) result in Figure S8 (Supporting Information) also clearly demon-

strates that the kinetic energy of the Auger electron transition of Pt/CuO@CF is 917.9 eV, which is consistent with the Auger electron transition of CuO (917.7 eV),<sup>[16]</sup> further proving Cu element exists in the form of Cu<sup>2+</sup>. Furthermore, the binding energy of Cu(II) 2p in Pt/CuO@CF exhibits a negative shift compared to the Cu species in CuO@CF after introduction of Pt. And the binding energy of O 1s also presents a negative shift (Figure S9, Supporting Information), indicating the presence of strong metal-support interaction between Pt and CuO.

Moreover, the doublets in high-resolution XPS spectrum at 71.9 and 74.5 eV are assigned to the Pt  $4f_{7/2}$  and Pt  $4f_{5/2}$  in Figure 2c, which could be ascribed to the Pt<sup>0</sup> and traceable surface oxidized Pt<sup> $\delta$ +</sup>, respectively. The electronic interaction between Pt and CuO is proved by the positive binding energy shift of Pt 4f compared to the binding energy of commercial Pt/C in Figure

S10 (Supporting Information) (71.1 and 74.3 eV assigned to the Pt 4f7/2 and Pt 4f5/2). This could be attributed to the proper electronegativity matching leading to the electronic metal-support interaction (EMSI) between CuO and Pt through the Pt─O─Cu.[\[17\]](#page-11-0) The additional two peaks observed at 75.9 and 78.3 eV were attributed to Cu(II) 3p1/2 and Cu(II) 3p3/2, as previously reported in the literature.[\[18\]](#page-11-0) XPS results provide clear evidence of a strong electron interaction between Pt and CuO within the hybrid structure. Consequently, we could reasonably conclude that the strong electronic synergy between Pt and CuO would play a crucial role in improving the electrochemical performance.

X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was further conducted to gain insight into the valence state and coordination environment of Pt species in Pt/CuO@CF. It is well-known that X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) at a 3d element K edge and a 5d element L3 edge is highly sensitive to the electronic structure. From the Pt L3-edge XANES spectra in Figure [2d,](#page-3-0) the white-line intensity of Pt/CuO@CF exhibits a slight shift toward higher energy compared to that of Pt foil, verifying the electron transfer from Pt to CuO support. Moreover, the local coordination structures of Pt/CuO@CF were revealed by extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy. The major peak position at ≈2.6 Å for the Pt foil is classified as Pt-Pt scattering in R space. As for PtO2, the major peak at ≈1.6 Å correspond to Pt─O paths. Regarding Pt/CuO@CF, the peak at ≈2.6 Å was observed, which is associated with the Pt─Pt scattering path in Figure [2e,f,](#page-3-0) suggesting that metallic Pt is dispersed at the CuO surface, in agreement with the HAADF-STEM observation.[\[19\]](#page-11-0) However, the peak at ≈1.5 Å is observed in Pt R-space spectrum of Pt/CuO@CF, which is attributed to the Pt─O bonds. The presence of Pt─O bonds in Pt/CuO@CF is primarily due to the elctronic interactions between the Pt nanoparticles and the oxygen atoms of the CuO support through the Pt─O─Cu bond, as well as the partial oxidation of Pt nanoparticles during the test process. The EX-AFS result of the Pt *k*-space is entirely fitted with the simulated structure (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The coordination environment of Pt/CuO@CF was further visually revealed by wavelet transform (WT) EXAFS. The WT-EXAFS analysis of Pt/CuO@CF, displays two distinct intensity maxima corresponding to Pt─Pt and Pt─O bonds (Figure [2g–i\)](#page-3-0). Structural parameters and fit quality evaluation were performed by conducting FT-EXAFS fits in R, 2, and R factor, as shown in Table S2 (Supporting Information).

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Property Analysis**

Next, the prepared Pt/CuO@CF was directly employed as the electrode for electrochemical HMFOR in H-type cell using a typical three-electrode system (Figure S12, Supporting Information). First, the performance of HMF oxidation with OER as the main competing reaction during HMFOR was evaluated by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) at 1.0 m KOH (pH 14) electrolyte with and without 10 mm HMF, separately. The LSV curves in **Figure [3](#page-5-0)**a show that Pt/CuO@CF catalyst possesses a lower overpotential than that of CuO@CF. The current density of Pt/CuO@CF during HMFOR was ≈2.0 times greater than that of CuO@CF at 1.50 V versus RHE (Figure [3b\)](#page-5-0), confirming that the introduction of Pt nanoparticles significantly enhanced the HMFOR activity. In addition, the increased current density was found to correlate with the concentration of HMF in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte (Figure [3c\)](#page-5-0), which indicates that the rise of current density originated from HMF oxidation, rather than the other side reactions. The corresponding Tafel slopes of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF were further calculated to evaluate the HMFOR kinetics. As shown in Figure [3d,](#page-5-0) the slope of Pt/CuO@CF is 133.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, obviously smaller than that of CuO@CF with 234.2 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, further revealing the faster catalytic kinetics.[\[20\]](#page-11-0) In the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analysis (Figure [3e\)](#page-5-0), a reduced charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) for Pt/CuO@CF in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte was detected compared to CuO@CF. When HMF was added into the KOH solution, the lowest *R*ct was observed for Pt/CuO@CF, which confirms that the existence of Pt on CuO endowed the catalyst's faster charge transfer ability. To elucidate the impact of the doped Pt on the intrinsic activities of CuO, the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) in HMFOR was assessed through cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves in the non-faradaic potential region at various scan rates. As illustrated in Figure [3f](#page-5-0) and Figure S13 (Supporting Information), Pt/CuO@CF exhibits higher current density and electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) compared to pure CuO@CF, which suggests that bimetallic hybrid structure contains high-density active sites contributing to enhance the HM-FOR activity.[\[21\]](#page-11-0) Furthermore, it is clear that the current density of Pt/CuO@CF remains higher than that of CuO@CF after normalized by ECSA (Figure S14, Supporting Information), indicating that the introduced Pt on CuO@CF exactly enhances the catalytic activity for HMFOR.

### **2.3. Evaluation of Electrocatalytic HMF Oxidation Performance**

In general, two possible reaction pathways have been proposed for the oxidation of HMF to FDCA based on the previous researches.[\[22\]](#page-11-0) As depicted in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-6-0) both reaction approaches involve a two-step oxidation process. The -CHO or -CH2OH group on the furan ring of HMF is initially oxidized, forming the corresponding intermediates, namely 5-hydroxymethyl-2 furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA) and 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF).[\[3d\]](#page-11-0) Subsequently, DFF and HMFCA undergo further oxidation reactions to yield FDCA. To study the possible reaction route, the concentrations of HMF, DFF, HMFCA, FFCA and FDCA were monitored by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) at different time intervals. Retention time of the above-mentioned reaction intermediates in HPLC is displayed in Figure S15 (Supporting Information). The evolution of reactant and different product concentrations with the amount of charge transfer is illustrated in Figures S16 and S17 (Supporting Information) using the calibration curves (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The concentration of intermediates HMFCA, FFCA and DFF were remarkably traced throughout the entire reaction process, demonstrating that Pt/CuO@CF exhibits outstanding reaction rate and catalytic activity during HMFOR. Additionally, it is noteworthy that the concentration of the intermediate HMFCA exceeded that of DFF, indicating the dominance of pathway I.

According to the chemical reaction equation, the conversion of HMF to FDCA involves a six-electron-transfer process. To achieve the complete conversion of 10 mm HMF in KOH electrolyte

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417684 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 3. Electrochemical activity characterizations. a) LSV curves of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF in 1.0 м KOH electrolyte with and without HMF, respectively. b) The OER and HMFOR current densities of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF at 1.50 V versus RHE. c) LSV curves of Pt/CuO@CF at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in 1.0 м KOH with varied HMF concentrations. d) Tafel slopes of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF in 1.0 м KOH electrolyte. e) EIS Nyquist plots in 1.0 м KOH with and without 10 mм HMF, separately. f) The capacitive current of Pt/CuO@CF and CuO@CF in 1.0 м KOH electrolyte.

(10 mL) to FDCA, an estimated charge close to 57.8 C would be theoretically required. In order to closely monitor the progress of the reaction, we employed constant potential electrolysis in conjunction with HPLC analysis. As depicted in Figure 4b, the signal intensity of FDCA, observed at a retention time of 19 min, exhibited a significant increase as the accumulated charge progressed from 0 to 57.8 C. The evolving pattern in the HPLC signals for HMF and FDCA with the increasing charge passed indicated a gradual conversion of HMF into FDCA. Concurrently, we observed a color change in the anodic electrolyte from the initial vellow to colorless as the chronoamperometric test progressed. Furthermore, the HMFOR performance was examined at various potentials ranging from 1.35 to 1.60 V versus RHE. The conversion of HMF and yield/FE/selectivity of FDCA are presented in Figure 4c. As the potential increased, both HMF conversion and FDCA yield/FE<sub>FDCA</sub> gradually increased, while the required reaction time for HMFOR decreased. The  $FE_{FDCA}$  increased from 83% at 1.35 V versus RHE to 99% at 1.50 V versus RHE. When potential continually increased to 1.60 V versus RHE, the  $FE_{EDCA}$ showed a downward trend, which could be attributed to the existence of competitive OER. Nevertheless, the HMF conversion rate remained above 80%, which could be ascribed to the HMF degradation forming the unfavorable humins in alkaline electrolyte environment at non-optimal potentials. With the concentration of HMF increased from 10 to 100 mm, the electrochemical test results indicated that Pt/CuO@CF still maintained the FE<sub>FDCA</sub> all above 95% at 1.50 V versus RHE (Figure 4d; Figure

S19 and Table S7, Supporting Information). Additionally, during the electrocatalytic process, we observed the current density gradually decreased at 1.50 V versus RHE using the potentiostatic method (Figure 4e). This decline was attributed to the continuous consumption of HMF in HMFOR. Meanwhile, the FE<sub>FDCA</sub> of CuO@CF was found to be 83.4% at 1.50 V versus RHE in 10 mm HMF electrolyte (Figure S20, Supporting Information). Besides, the HMF oxidation performance of CuO@CF in electrolytes with high HMF concentrations was also lower than that of Pt/CuO@CF suggesting the Pt nanoparticles play a crucial role in the high-performance HMFOR (Figures S21 and S22, Supporting Information).

#### 2.4. Stability Test of Pt/CuO@CF during HMFOR

Based on the above analysis, the optimal potential for HMF electrooxidation to FDCA was 1.50 V versus RHE for Pt/CuO@CF. Next, the cycling stability for HMFOR was evaluated at a constant potential of 1.50 V versus RHE in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte with 10 mm HMF. Gratifyingly, Pt/CuO@CF catalyst maintained a very impressive stability in terms of conversion of HMF (>99%), yield (>95%) and FE (>96%) of FDCA (Figure 4f) in the following 15 consecutive tests. Moreover, the excellent catalytic activity was observed for Pt/CuO@CF in HMFOR compared to the previously reported metal oxide or hydroxide catalysts for HMFOR in the literatures (Figure 4g; Table S7, Supporting

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** HMFOR performance and mechanism insight. a) Two possible reaction pathways for HMF oxidation into FDCA. b) HPLC traces with charge passed at 1.50 V versus RHE (signal labels. 1: FDCA; 2: HMFCA; 3: FFCA; 4: HMF and 5: DFF). c) FE, yield and selectivity of FDCA, and HMF conversion at various potentials when using Pt/CuO@CF as anodic catalyst. d) FE and yield of FDCA at 1.50 V versus RHE in electrolytes with different HMF concentrations when using Pt/CuO@CF as anodic catalyst (10, 25, 50, 75, and 100 mm HMF in 1.0 m KOH solution). e) Current density and passed charge versus electrooxidation time for HMFOR. f) FE/Yield (%) of FDCA production and HMF conversion using Pt/CuO@CF in 15 successive electrolysis cycles. g) Comparison of Pt/CuO@CF performance with previously reported literatures.

Information).[\[8e,h,21,23\]](#page-11-0) After HMFOR, SEM and HRTEM images of the recovered catalyst (Figure S23, Supporting Information) show that the nanowire structure of Pt/CuO@CF was well preserved. Furthermore, the PXRD patterns (Figure S24, Supporting Information) revealed that Pt/CuO@CF still maintained its initial crystalline phase. High-resolution Cu 2p and Pt 4f XPS spectra of the fresh Pt/CuO@CF and the recovered catalyst exhibits similar properties after HMFOR (Figures S25 and S26, Supporting Information). To further investigate the dynamic changes in the phase structure of Pt/CuO@CF during the HMFOR process, the potential-dependent in situ Raman spectroscopy was employed to monitor the surface features using a custom-made test device (Figure S27, Supporting Information). During HM-FOR, the vibration peaks at ≈297 and 345 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponding to the CuO species were consistently observed with the potential increased.[\[24\]](#page-11-0) No additional peaks were generated under the same conditions (Figures S28 and S29, Supporting Information). Furthermore, at the optimal potential 1.50 V versus RHE, in situ Raman results with the extended time revealed that there is no new characteristic peaks when using Pt/CuO@CF as the anodic catalyst. The Raman bands appear ≈297 and 342 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> still exhibited the characteristic peaks of CuO (Figure S30, Supporting Information). To further confirm no new species are generated for Pt/CuO@CF during HMFOR process, we also performed in situ elctrochemical XRD characterization to monitor the structural variation of Pt/CuO@CF. Experimental results demonstrate that the phase structure of CuO keeps stable in Pt/CuO@CF, and no additional diffraction peaks are observed (Figure S31, Supporting

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Investigation of the adsorption behavior for substartes. OCP changes of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF in 1.0 m KOH aqueous solution after a) HMF, b) HMFCA and c) FFCA injected. In situ ATR-FTIR spectra of d) CuO@CF and e) Pt/CuO@CF for HMFOR. f) LSV curves of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF in 1.0 m PBS aqueous solution. CV curves of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF in g) 1.0 m KOH, h) 1.0 m KOH + 10 mm HMF solution. i) Zeta potential of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF catalysts in 1.0 m KOH aqueous solution.

Information). Overall, these experimental results confirm that the crystalline phase structure of Pt/CuO@CF remains highly stable during the HMF oxidation process.

#### **2.5. Adsorption Behaviors of Key Reactants**

Subsequently, open circuit potential (OCP) was measured to examine the change of organic adsorbent content in the inner Helmholtz layer,[\[23d,25\]](#page-11-0) thereby aiming to deepen the understand of the adsorption behavior of substartes. When 50 mm HMF was injected, a lower OCP was observed for Pt/CuO@CF (0.68 V versus RHE) compared to CuO@CF (0.73 V versus RHE), indicating more HMF molecules were enriched in the inner Helmholtz layer (**Figure 5**a). In addition, the change trends of OCP for catalysts were consistent with that of HMF when the intermediates of HMFCA and FFCA were injected (Figure 5b,c). And the change range of HMF and FFCA containing aldehyde group was higher, suggesting that Pt/CuO@CF catalyst exhibited stronger adsorption capacity for HMF and intermediates, especially for species containing aldehyde group. In situ ATR-SEIRAS was further performed to investigate the adsorption behavior of the electrocatalyst to organic molecules (Figure S32, Supporting Information). It can be found from Figure 5d,e that the peak at 1212 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> was identified as the C─O stretching vibration peak of the HMF molecule or intermediates.[\[23a,26\]](#page-11-0) With the potential increased, a blue shift of the C─O peak was observed, illustrating a strong interaction between HMF/intermediates and catalysts. Compared to pure CuO@CF, in situ ATR-SEIRAS spectra of Pt/CuO@CF presented a higher initial peak position and

**Figure 6.** Study on interfacial adsorption kinetics. Bode plots of the CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF catalysts in a,b) 1.0 m KOH and c,d) 1.0 m KOH + 50 mm HMF; e) Fitting *R*<sup>1</sup> (*R*ct) values of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF catalysts during the OER and HMFOR; f) Schematic diagram of initial reaction in the inner Helmholtz layer.

intensity at the same potential, suggesting that the coverage of substrates on the Pt/CuO@CF surface is significantly higher than that on CuO@CF (Figure [5d,e\)](#page-7-0).

On the other hand, the HMF oxidation process also requires the participation of OHads species, which provides "oxygen atoms" for dehydrogenation of various substrates.[\[27\]](#page-12-0) Therefore, it is essential to clarify the adsorption and transformation behavior of OHads. In situ ATR-SEIRAS spectra indicate that Pt/CuO@CF exhibits higher O─H vibration peak intensity than CuO@CF in the range of 3100–3500 cm<sup>−</sup>1, suggesting that more OHads species are accumulated around the surface of Pt/CuO@CF during the reaction (Figure [5d,e\)](#page-7-0). The adsorption activity of OHads was also evaluated in a deficient OH<sup>−</sup> environment (1.0 m phosphate buffer saline (PBS) solution) by LSV tests. The results show that both of the HMFOR and OER performance of Pt/CuO@CF are much higher than that of pure CuO@CF, which also evidences that the introduced Pt nanoparticles are particularly conducive to capturing OHads (Figure [5f\)](#page-7-0). As displayed in Figure [5g,](#page-7-0) an obvious oxidation peak in the potential range of 0.80–1.05 V versus RHE in the CV curves could be observed, indicating the OHads adsorption on the catalyst surface.[\[28\]](#page-12-0) Regardless of the presence of HMF, the peak current of Pt nanoparticles significantly promotes the intrinsic adsorption of OHads (Figure [5h\)](#page-7-0). Zeta potential measurements were carried out to reflect the surface adsorption potential of CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF (Figure [5i\)](#page-7-0). Obviously, Pt/CuO@CF exhibits a lower value in an alkaline environment, implying that more OHads enriched on the catalyst surface in KOH solution, which is conducive to the occurrence of catalytic reaction.[\[29\]](#page-12-0) Based on these experimental results, it is reasonable to infer that the synergistic effect between Pt and CuO is beneficial for adsorbing the organic reactants and OHads, which further accelerates the reaction process.

To further analyze the interfacial electrochemical behavior during the catalytic process, in situ electrochemcial impedance spectroscopy (in situ EIS) was employed.[\[30\]](#page-12-0) The related Bode plots are given in **Figure 6**a–d. With the increased of potential, the inflection points (indicated by the green circle, and the area with a marked change in curvature) for CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF in the low-frequency region occur at 1.60 V versus RHE, suggesting that OER occurs at this potential. However, the phase angle value of the Pt/CuO@CF in the high-frequency region is lower than that of CuO@CF, indicating that the reaction kinetics of Pt/CuO@CF is faster. When HMF was added, the inflection points for CuO@CF and Pt/CuO@CF appeared at 1.40 and 1.30 V versus RHE, respectively, demonstrating that the HMF oxidation potential of Pt/CuO@CF is lower. Moreover, in the potential range of the HMF oxidation (1.30–1.60 V versus RHE), the phase angle value of Pt/CuO@CF is significantly lower than that of CuO@CF, which also confirms that the HMFOR reaction rate of Pt/CuO@CF is faster. The related equivalent circuit and Nyquist plots are shown in Figures S33 and S34 (Supporting Information), and the fitted *R*<sup>1</sup> (*R*ct) values were listed in Tables S3–S6 (Supporting Information). As illustrated in Figure 6e, Pt/CuO@CF exhibits lower charge transfer resistance and faster reaction rate. Combined with the above experimental results, a schematic diagram of the initial reaction in the inner Helmholtz layer is given (Figure 6f). In summary, due to the desirable **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417684 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

adsorption and conversion effect of the Pt/CuO@CF electrocatalyst for HMF and OHads, Pt/CuO@CF exhibits the faster catalytic reaction kinetics.

#### **2.6. Catalyst Structure and Mechanism Analysis**

To elucidate the mechanism of higher HMF oxidation performance for Pt/CuO@CF catalyst, and the peculiarities of electronic and geometric structure in this system, theoretical calculations were performed. The simulated structures of CuO and Pt/CuO are presented in Figures S35 and S36 (Supporting Information). As the key steps in HMFOR, the adsorption of HMF and OHads on the catalyst surface is critical for the whole reaction steps.[\[31\]](#page-12-0) Thus, we modeled different adsorption configurations for HMF and OHads on the surface of Pt clusters, CuO and Pt/CuO (Figures S37–S39, Supporting Information). Theoretical calculation results reveal that the oxygen atom in aldehyde group of the HMF molecule is bonded to Pt atom in Pt clusters. And the OHads adsorbs on Pt atom of Pt clusters. The adsorption energies of HMF and OHads on Pt clusters are −1.22 and −0.64 eV, respectively. On the bare CuO, the HMF molecule and OHads both tend to bond with the surface Cu atoms. On the contrary, the introduced Pt nanoparticles changes the adsorption behaviors of HMF and OHads. For Pt/CuO, the oxygen of the aldehyde group of HMF forms a bond with Pt, while the hydroxymethyl group at the other end interacts with the CuO interface through hydrogen bonding. The OHads prefers to adsorb on the interface of Pt and CuO, connecting with the Pt atom and Cu atom, simultaneously. The adsorption energies of HMF and OHads with optimal configurations on CuO are −2.04 and 0.88 eV, respectively. After surface modification with Pt, the adsorption energies are strengthened to −3.74 and −1.52 eV, respectively (**Figure 7**[a,b\)](#page-10-0). The analysis of HMF and OHads adsorption configurations and adsorption energies on Pt/CuO reveals a strong synergistic interaction between Pt and CuO, which contributs to the enhanced combination of reactive species with OHads and improves the reaction kinetics.

Besides, when Pt is supported on CuO, Bader charge analysis indicate that electrons flow from Pt to the CuO substrate, resulting in a partial oxidation of the Pt clusters (Figure [7c,](#page-10-0) +2.61 e<sup>−</sup>).[\[32\]](#page-12-0) This observation is further supported by projected density of states (PDOS) calculations in Figure [7d,](#page-10-0) which reveals that the Cu d-band center (*E*d) in Pt/CuO is ≈-3.16 eV, closer to the Fermi energy level (*E*f), and thus with a higher degree of electron filling compared to that in CuO (−3.21 eV). These findings imply a strong interaction between Pt and CuO, which accounts for the prolonged stability observed experimentally. In addition, the hole accumulation on Pt is inherently beneficial for the adsorption of HMF and OHads, which may responsible for the enhancement of catalytic performance. Moreover, the PDOS results of CuO and Pt/CuO catalysts exhibit gap-free characteristics for both models, which would favor rapid electron transfer during the electrocatalytic process (Figure [7e,f\)](#page-10-0).[\[33\]](#page-12-0) Notably, the Pt-5d orbitals in Pt/CuO show occupation near the *E*f, indicating that Pt nanoparticles also contribute to the enhanced conductivity.

To examine this, we calculated the reaction profiles and adsorption configurations associated with the lowest energy pathway of both CuO and Pt/CuO (Figure [7g;](#page-10-0) Figure S40, Supporting Information). For the bare CuO, the step of HMF to HMFCA (\*HMF → \*HMF + \*OH) is identified as the rate-determining step (RDS) with a maximum energy change of 1.73 eV to generate the FDCA. However, it is encouraging that the reaction barrier is significantly reduced to 1.13 eV on Pt/CuO under the RDS of FFCA to FDCA (\*FFCA + \*OH → \*C6H3O4), which reveals that the synergistic effect between Pt and CuO plays an essential role in boosting the HMFOR activity. We also note that HMF can react via the hydroxymethyl group. We calculated the energy profile for this pathway on Pt/CuO, and found that the RDS is HMF to DFF (\*C6H5O3 + \*OH → \*DFF) with an associated reaction energy of 1.76 eV, indicating that this pathway is energetically unfavorable and unlikely to occur (Figure S41, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the electrocatalytic oxidation performance of Pt/CuO@CF for different reaction intermediates shows that the high FE and yield of FDCA are achieved when the reactants are HMFCA and FFCA (Figure S42, Supporting Information). Experimental results also confirm that the aldehyde group in HMF tends to adsorb on the catalyst surface, making HMFOR more likely to proceed via pathway I. The detailed adsorption and conversion process of substrate molecules on the catalyst surface is shown in Figures S43–S45 (Supporting Information). These results verify that the construction of the heterojunction interface modifies the adsorption behavior of key substrate molecules on Pt/CuO@CF. Overall, the strong coupling effect between Pt nanoparticles and CuO, along with the gap-free interface in the heterogeneous catalyst, facilitates charge redistribution, tunes the d-band center of surface Cu atoms, and optimizes the adsorption of reaction intermediates. These attributes collectively contribute to the catalyst's high conductivity and stability during HMFOR. From a structural design perspective, incorporating Pt nanoparticles at the heterojunction interface maximizes the formation of active interface sites between Pt and CuO, enhancing the adsorption of substrate molecules and thereby significantly boosting catalytic activity in HMFOR. These experimental and theoretical findings are pivotal for advancing the understanding of interface dynamics and accelerating reaction kinetics, providing valuable guidance for designing advanced metal nanoparticle-metal oxide heterostructure catalysts.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we successfully modified Pt nanoparticles on CuO support, where the heterostructure and synergistic effect of Pt/CuO@CF significantly enhance the selective conversion of HMF to FDCA by subtly tailoring the adsorption ability of HMF/OHads. The electrochemical test results demonstrate that Pt/CuO@CF exhibits a two-fold increase in current density at 1.50 V versus RHE and a higher FEFDCA (≈99%) compared to bare CuO@CF. EIS and ECSA characterizations revealed that the high-density active sites in Pt/CuO@CF promote efficient charge and mass transfer, thereby significantly enhancing catalytic activity for HMFOR. Cyclic performance tests, in situ Raman and in situ XRD spectra also confirm the excellent structure stability of Pt/CuO@CF during the HMFOR. Combining in situ ATR-SEIRAS characterizations with theoretical calculation results, the introduction of Pt nanoparticles effectively regulated the electronic structure and reaction environment of Pt/CuO@CF,

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 7.** HMF oxidation mechanism investigation for Pt/CuO catalyst. Adsorption energies and configuration of a) HMF and b) OHads on CuO and Pt/CuO, respectively. c) Bader charge analysis on Pt/CuO model. d) PDOS of Cu atom in CuO and Pt/CuO, respectively. PDOS of e) CuO and f) Pt/CuO, respectively. g) Free energy diagram of HMFOR intermediates on CuO and Pt/CuO. Blue: copper; grey: platinum; pink: oxygen; brown: carbon; light pink: hydrogen.

optimizing the adsorption behaviors of HMF and OHads on the catalyst surface. Thus, the synergistic effect in Pt/CuO@CF accelerates the HMF conversion accordingly. The new approach reported here not only addresses the challenge of low catalytic activity under high HMF concentrations but also offers novel insights into achieving long-term stability in HMFOR through the introduction of synergistic metals. We believe that this methodology can also be applied to enhance the activity and selectivity of other electrochemical oxidation/reduction reactions that face intrinsic challenges.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22373080, 22078274, and 22402163), the Natural Science Foundation of Fujian Province (2022J05009, 2024J08008) and the Natural Science Foundation of Xiamen, China (3502Z202472001).

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417684 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

J.L., R.Q., and S.Z. contributed equally to this work. J.L. and R.Q. conducted the study. S.Z. and S-S.Z. performed the theoretical calculations. Y.D. and J.W. assisted with electrochemical HMFOR test. S.Y., L.P., J.L., and R.Q. supervised the work. Y.J. and N.F. implemented some in situ experiments. Y.L., L.D., J.K., and G.C. checked the manuscript. H.Z. took part in drawing the experimental flow chart. I.A., J.Y., J-C.D., Y.S., L.L., and J-F.L. discussed the experimental results. J.L., R.Q., S.Y., and L.P. wrote the manuscript. All the authors approved the manuscript.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

biomass upgrading, electrocatalysis, green chemistry, heterogeneous catalysis

> Received: November 14, 2024 Revised: January 17, 2025 Published online: January 28, 2025

- [1] a) H. F. Xiong, T. J. Schwartz, N. I. Andersen, J. A. Dumesic, A. K. Datye, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 7939; b) S. J. Davis, K. Caldeira, H. D. Matthews, *Science* **2010**, *329*, 1330.
- [2] a) S. Chu, A. Majumdar, *Nature* **2012**, *488*, 294; b) P. C. A. Bruijnincx, B. M. Weckhuysen, *Nat. Chem.* **2014**, *6*, 1035; c) L. C. Bai, C. S. Hsu, D. T. L. Alexander, H. M. Chen, X. L. Hu, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 1054.
- [3] a) L. Ardemani, G. Cibin, A. J. Dent, M. A. Isaacs, G. Kyriakou, A. F. Lee, C. M. A. Parlett, S. A. Parry, K. Wilson, *Chem. Sci.* **2015**, *6*, 4940; b) A. Corma, S. Iborra, A. Velty, *Chem. Rev.* **2007**, *107*, 2411; c) J. P. Lee, J. M. Lee, K. Y. S. Min, *Bioresource Technol.* **2023**, *371*, 128628; d) B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. J. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 13639; e) C. L. Chen, L. C. Wang, B. Zhu, Z. Q. Zhou, S. I. El-Hout, J. Yang, J. Zhang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *54*, 528.
- [4] a) M. R. Whitaker, A. Parulkar, N. A. Brunelli, *Mol. Syst. Des. Eng.* **2020**, *5*, 257; b) X. L. Jiang, W. Li, Y. X. Liu, L. Zhao, Z. K. Chen, L. Zhang, Y. G. Zhang, S. N. Yun, *SusMat* **2023**, *3*, 21.
- [5] K. A. P. Payne, S. A. Marshall, K. Fisher, M. J. Cliff, D. M. Cannas, C. Y. Yan, D. J. Heyes, D. A. Parker, I. Larrosa, D. Leys, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 2854.
- [6] a) A. F. Sousa, C. Vilela, A. C. Fonseca, M. Matos, C. S. R. Freire, G.-J. M. Gruter, J. F. J. Coelho, A. J. D. Silvestre, *Polym. Chem.* **2015**, *6*, 5961; b) A. H. Motagamwala, K. F. Huang, C. T. Maravelias, J. A. Dumesic, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 2212; c) S. K. Burgess, R. M. Kriegel, W. J. Koros, *Macromolecules* **2015**, *48*, 2184; d) S. K. Burgess, D. S. Mikkilineni, D. B. Yu, D. J. Kim, C. R. Mubarak, R. M. Kriegel, W. J. Koros, *Polymer* **2014**, *55*, 6870; e) M. Sajid, X. B. Zhao, D. H. Liu, *Green Chem.* **2018**, *20*, 5427.
- [7] a) R. J. Chimentao, H. Oliva, J. Belmar, K. Morales, P. Maki-Arvela, J. Warna, D. Y. Murzin, J. L. G. Fierro, J. Llorca, D. Ruiz, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2019**, *241*, 270; b) T. Pasini, M. Piccinini, M. Blosi, R. Bonelli, S. Albonetti, N. Dimitratos, J. A. Lopez-Sanchez, M. Sankar, Q. He,

- C. J. Kiely, G. J. Hutchings, F. Cavani, *Green Chem.* **2011**, *13*, 2091; c) X. Y. Wan, C. M. Zhou, J. S. Chen, W. P. Deng, Q. H. Zhang, Y. H. Yang, Y. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 2175.
- [8] a) C. Xu, E. Paone, D. Rodriguez-Padron, R. Luque, F. Mauriello, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 4273; b) X. Deng, X. Kang, M. Li, K. Xiang, C. Wang, Z. Guo, J. Zhang, X.-Z. Fu, J.-L. Luo, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 1138; c) X. Huang, J. L. Song, M. L. Hua, Z. B. Xie, S. S. Liu, T. B. Wu, G. Y. Yang, B. X. Han, *Green Chem.* **2020**, *22*, 843; d) N. Jiang, B. You, R. Boonstra, I. M. Terrero Rodriguez, Y. Sun, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2016**, *1*, 386; e) W. J. Liu, L. N. Dang, Z. R. Xu, H. Q. Yu, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5533; f) E. Hayashi, Y. Yamaguchi, K. Kamata, N. Tsunoda, Y. Kumagai, F. Oba, M. Hara, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 890; g) G. C. Yang, Y. Q. Jiao, H. J. Yan, Y. Xie, A. P. Wu, X. Dong, D. Z. Guo, C. G. Tian, H. G. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455; h) P. Zhou, X. S. Lv, H. N. Huang, B. X. Cheng, H. Y. Zhan, Y. K. Lu, T. Frauenheim, S. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2312402; i) D. H. Nam, B. J. Taitt, K. S. Choi, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 1197.
- [9] X. L. Pang, H. Y. Bai, H. Q. Zhao, W. Q. Fan, W. D. Shi, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1545.
- [10] H. Zhang, T. Y. Gao, Q. E. Cao, W. H. Fang, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 6056.
- [11] S. E. Davis, B. N. Zope, R. J. Davis, *Green Chem.* **2012**, *14*, 143.
- [12] B. Zhou, Y. Li, Y. Zou, W. Chen, W. Zhou, M. Song, Y. Wu, Y. Lu, J. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22908.
- [13] J. Wu, Z. Kong, Y. Li, Y. Lu, P. Zhou, H. Wang, L. Xu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 21518.
- [14] a) F. Y. Chen, Z. Y. Wu, S. Gupta, D. J. Rivera, S. V. Lambeets, S. Pecaut, J. Y. T. Kim, P. Zhu, Y. Z. Finfrock, D. M. Meira, G. King, G. H. Gao, W. Q. Xu, D. A. Cullen, H. Zhou, Y. M. Han, D. E. Perea, C. L. Muhich, H. T. Wang, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2022**, *17*, 759; b) H. T. Xu, T. Y. Liu, S. X. Bai, L. G. Li, Y. M. Zhu, J. Wang, S. Z. Yang, Y. F. Li, Q. Shao, X. Q. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 5482.
- [15] a) J. Li, X. Han, D. M. Wang, L. Zhu, M. H. Ha-Thi, T. Pino, J. Arbiol, L. Z. Wu, M. N. Ghazzal, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 2022102; b) Z. L. Zhang, J. C. Jung, N. Yan, *Nanoscale* **2016**, *8*, 19684.
- [16] P. Wang, S. Y. Meng, B. T. Zhang, M. He, P. E. Li, C. Yang, G. Li, Z. X. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 26133.
- [17] a) J. X. Wei, K. Xiao, Y. X. Chen, X. P. Guo, B. L. Huang, Z. Q. Liu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 4592; b) Y. Z. Zhu, J. Sokolowski, X. C. Song, Y. H. He, Y. Mei, G. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 190284; c) R. Liu, H. Wu, J. H. Shi, X. M. Xu, D. Zhao, Y. H. Ng, M. L. Zhang, S. J. Liu, H. Ding, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2022**, *12*, 6945.
- [18] Y. M. Zhao, Y. H. Jiang, Y. Mo, Y. M. Zhai, J. J. Liu, A. C. Strzelecki, X. F. Guo, C. S. Shan, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2207240.
- [19] a) M. J. Wang, Y. Xu, C. K. Peng, S. Y. Chen, Y. G. Lin, Z. W. Hu, L. Sun, S. Y. Ding, C. W. Pao, Q. Shao, X. Q. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 16512; b) F. Z. Wang, J. Yang, J. Li, Y. Y. Han, A. Li, R. Xu, X. Feng, T. Wang, C. Tong, J. W. Li, Z. D. Wei, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2023**, *9*, 93.
- [20] Y. Sun, J. Wang, Y. F. Qi, W. J. Li, C. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2200957.
- [21] H. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Tao, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2022**, *315*, 121588.
- [22] Y. J. Song, Z. H. Li, K. Fan, Z. Ren, W. F. Xie, Y. S. Yang, M. F. Shao, M. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *299*, 120669.
- [23] a) P. Zhou, X. S. Lv, S. S. Tao, J. C. Wu, H. F. Wang, X. X. Wei, T. H. Wang, B. Zhou, Y. X. Lu, T. Frauenheim, X. Z. Fu, S. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204089; b) R. Luo, Y. Li, L. Xing, N. Wang, R. Zhong, Z. Qian, C. Du, G. Yin, Y. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2022**, *311*, 121357; c) Y. Wu, L. Ma, J. Wu, M. Song, C. Wang, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311698. d) Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Y. Li, J. Chen, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007056.
- [24] a) X. Zhou, J. Shan, L. Chen, B. Y. Xia, T. Ling, J. Duan, Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 2079; b) B. Zhao, F. Chen, C. Cheng, L. Li, C. Liu, B. Zhang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2204346; c) Y. L. Deng, A. D. Handoko, Y. H. Du, S. B. Xi, B. S. Yeo, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 2473.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417684 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [25] Y. C. Yang, D. X. Xu, B. L. Zhang, Z. M. Xue, T. C. Mu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *433*, 133397.
- [26] a) S. Barwe, J. Weidner, S. Cychy, D. M. Morales, S. Dieckhofer, D. Hiltrop, J. Masa, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 11460; b) A. R. Poerwoprajitno, L. Gloag, J. Watt, S. Cychy, S. Cheong, P. V. Kumar, T. M. Benedetti, C. Deng, K. H. Wu, C. E. Marjo, D. L. Huber, M. Muhler, J. J. Gooding, W. Schuhmann, D. W. Wang, R. D. Tilley, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 15487.
- [27] a) X. H. Deng, G. Y. Xu, Y. J. Zhang, L. Wang, J. J. Zhang, J. F. Li, X. Z. Fu, J. L. Luo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 20535. b) Y. C. Yang, T. C. Mu, *Green Chem.* **2021**, *23*, 4228.
- [28] a) R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K. C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 550; b) L. Y. Zeng, Y. J. Chen, M. Z. Sun, Q. Z. Huang, K. A. Sun, J. Y. Ma, J. Li, H. Tan, M. G. Li, Y. Pan,

- Y. Q. Liu, M. C. Luo, B. L. Huang, S. J. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17577.
- [29] B. G. Mao, P. P. Sun, Y. Jiang, T. Meng, D. L. Guo, J. W. Qin, M. H. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 15232.
- [30] C. Xie, W. Chen, S. Q. Du, D. F. Yan, Y. Q. Zhang, J. Chen, B. Liu, S. Y. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *71*, 104653.
- [31] R. Z. Li, D. S. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 6888.
- [32] P. Zhou, G. Y. Zhai, X. S. Lv, Y. Y. Liu, Z. Y. Wang, P. Wang, Z. K. Zheng, H. F. Cheng, Y. Dai, B. B. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *283*, 119590.
- [33] a) G. Z. Li, T. Sun, H. J. Niu, Y. Yan, T. Liu, S. S. Jiang, Q. L. Yang, W. Zhou, L. Guo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2212514; b) Y. D. Liu, T. Sakthivel, F. Hu, Y. H. Tian, D. S. Wu, E. H. Ang, H. Liu, S. W. Guo, S. J. Peng, Z. F. Dai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2203797.