---
source: Liu 等 - 2025 - CoSe2 @NiSe‐CoSe2 Heterojunction for Enhanced Electrocatalytic 5‐Hydroxymethyl.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 74.566s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:45:29.090276Z
---

# **CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2 Heterojunction for Enhanced Electrocatalytic 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Oxidation Coupled with Hydrogen Evolution**

*Shuai Liu, Wenting Cai, Mengmeng Jin, Tongxue Zhang, Zhiwei Zhang, Qingzhao Liu, Xijun Liu, Xubin Zhang,\* and Fumin Wang\**

**Electrochemical 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction (HMFOR) offers a promising approach to producing valuable chemicals and facilitating coupled H2 production. A significant challenge in the HMFOR lies in elucidating the interaction mechanisms between the active sites and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF). However, the unpredictable reconstruction of active sites during the catalytic process complicates the understanding of these mechanisms. In this study, a novel heterojunction (CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF) is synthesized using a straightforward hydrothermal method combined with classical selenization. This heterojunction demonstrates exceptional electrocatalytic performance for direct HMF oxidation, achieving a Faradaic efficiency of 2,5-furanedicarboxylic acid (FDCA) up to 97.9%. Notably, it requires only 1.29 V versus RHE to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for the HMFOR-assisted hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). The high activity of the heterojunction primarily arises from interfacial electron redistribution. Specifically, Co modulates the band structure of Ni, with Se serving as the intermediary. This modulation increases the adsorption energy of HMF and reduces the energy barrier of the rate-determining step in HMFOR. This research not only achieves the selective synthesis of high-value chemicals but also provides a comprehensive analysis of the structure-performance relationship of the catalyst, offering a new pathway for the development of efficient heterogeneous catalysts.**

S. Liu, W. Cai, T. Zhang, Z. Zhang, Q. Liu, X. Zhang, F. Wang School of Chemical Engineering and Technology

Tianjin University

Tianjin 300350, P. R. China

E-mail: [tjzxb@tju.edu.cn;](mailto:tjzxb@tju.edu.cn)[wangfumin@tju.edu.cn](mailto:wangfumin@tju.edu.cn)

M. Jin

School of Chemical Engineering

The University of Adelaide

Adelaide SA 5005, Australia

X. Liu

MOE Key Laboratory of New Processing Technology for Nonferrous Metals and Materials

Guangxi Key Laboratory of Processing for Non-ferrous Metals and Featured Materials

School of Resources

Environment and Materials

Guangxi University

Nanning, Guangxi 530004, China

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202421447**

# **1. Introduction**

The depletion of fossil fuels and the associated environmental challenges have necessitated an urgent search for new, clean, and renewable energy sources. Hydrogen (H2), noted for its high energy density and zero emissions, is considered an ideal alternative to fossil fuels. Among the various methods for hydrogen production, water electrolysis stands out as one of the most promising pathways for largescale hydrogen generation due to its mild reaction conditions. Currently, significant research efforts are focused on optimizing water electrolysis, while the slow oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the anode still requires a high potential input. Thus, substituting the OER with the thermodynamically more favorable electro-oxidation of organic molecules will present a more promising avenue. This well approach can not only reduce the energy barrier of the anodic reaction but also produce valuable by-products, which have garnered substantial industrial and scientific interest. A notable example is 5-hydroxymethylfurfural

(HMF), derived from lignocellulose, recognized as one of the top 12 biomass-derived compounds. HMF is among the most widely utilized furanic compounds and serves as a multifunctional platform molecule for synthesizing high-value carbon products.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) The oxidation product of HMF, 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), has been classified by the U.S. Department of Energy as one of the 'Top 10 + 4′ biobased chemicals.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) In addition, FDCA is employed in the synthesis of polyethylene furanoate, a biobased plastic precursor that presents a sustainable alternative to the petroleum-derived precursor for polyethylene terephthalate.[\[3\]](#page-10-0) Alternatively, the electrocatalytic conversion of HMF, coupled with hydrogen evolution reactions,[\[4\]](#page-10-0) presents a potentially feasible pathway to get FDCA product due to its mild and controllable operational conditions.[\[5\]](#page-10-0) However, achieving highly selective oxidation of HMF still necessitates the development of efficient catalysts.[\[6\]](#page-10-0) Among non-precious metal catalysts, nickel-based catalysts have garnered substantial research interest owing to their distinctive eg orbital hybridization and tunable electronic structures for this conversion.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) Nickel-based

materials,[\[8\]](#page-10-0) including sulfides, phosphides, oxides,[[9\]](#page-10-0) nitrides, and alloys,[\[10\]](#page-10-0) have shown promising results for the HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR).[\[11\]](#page-10-0) However, these materials frequently undergo significant reconstruction into hydrophilic nickel oxides (e.g., NiO, Ni(OH)2, or NiOOH) during the HM-FOR process.[\[10a,12\]](#page-10-0) This reconstruction hinders HMF adsorption while promoting OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption, resulting in the predominant side reaction of OER under alkaline conditions. Consequently, it significantly diminishes both the catalytic activity of HMF and selectivity for FDCA. Furthermore, the aggregation of singlecomponent oxides decreases the active surface area, which can also influence the oxidation process. Therefore, regulating the coordination environment of Ni to attain excellent selectivity for HMFOR while preventing the uncontrolled complete reconstruction of nickel-based compounds continues to pose a significant challenge.

Addressing these challenges requires careful selection of appropriate regulatory strategies. Heterojunction engineering emerges as an effective solution by integrating various components through interfacial interactions.[\[13\]](#page-10-0) This methodology not only inhibits the aggregation of identical components but also modulates the coordination environment of active sites via charge transfer between distinct components. Yan's team developed a novel heterojunction nanocatalyst, Co9S8@Fe3O4 arrays, which exhibited remarkable stability for water electrolysis in an alkaline environment.[\[14\]](#page-10-0) The stability is primarily attributed to the random distribution of Fe3O4 within the heterojunction, which serves as a barrier against the aggregation of Co9S8 during structural reconstruction. Similarly, Xiong's team achieved long-term stability in acidic electrolytes by utilizing an IrW scaffold to anchor IrO2, effectively preventing excessive oxygen adsorption and accumulation.[\[15\]](#page-10-0) Fan et al. synthesized Co-Ni3N through epitaxial growth, demonstrating excellent stability and activity in water electrolysis.[\[16\]](#page-10-0) Their findings indicated that the intermetallic constraint among various metals significantly enhanced the catalyst's stability. Furthermore, the coordination environment of active sites plays a crucial role in influencing catalytic performance.[\[17\]](#page-10-0) Sulfur anion coordination has been shown to markedly improve the performance of nickel-based catalysts, as evidenced by the outstanding alcohol oxidation performance of NiSex and NiSx materials, Wang's research revealed that, compared to sulfur, Ni-Se coordination inhibited the deep oxidative reconstruction of the Ni-based interface during the glycerol oxidation reaction (GOR), thereby preventing the formation of NiOOH and minimizing Se dissolution, which collectively contributed to enhanced catalyst stability.[\[18\]](#page-10-0) Inspired by these findings, we synthesized a novel catalyst supported on nickel foam (NF) via heterojunction engineering (CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF), utilizing classical hydrothermal and selenization methods. The catalyst demonstrated exceptional activity and stability for the hydrolysis of HMFOR in an alkaline environment, achieving over 98.6% yield for FDCA and maintaining a Faradaic efficiency of 94% after more than 30 cycles, thereby surpassing most previously reported HMFOR catalysts. A series of in-situ spectroscopic measurements indicate that the heterojunction structure can facilitate HMFOR through a direct oxidation mechanism. This approach avoids the deep oxidation of the catalyst and its subsequent reconstruction into high-valent metals (Ni3<sup>+</sup>), thereby preventing the aggregation of active sites and enhancing the stability of the catalyst, CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF still demonstrates outstanding structural stability after 25000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) tests in an alkaline environment. Furthermore, theoretical simulation based on density functional theory (DFT) confirms that the high activity of the heterojunction is attributed to the modulation of the electronic structure of active sites via interface electronic redistribution between different components of the heterojunction, which strengthens the d- bond between CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF and HMF, thereby enhancing the adsorption energy of HMF. Furthermore, the Gibbs free energy suggests CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF has a lower energy barrier for the dehydrogenation of 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA) to furfuryl carboxylic acid (FFCA), which reduces the rate-determining step of HMFOR and accelerates the oxidation rate of HMF.[\[19\]](#page-10-0) This discovery provides new insights into the mechanistic understanding of HMFOR and presents design strategies for developing high-performance, nickel-based nonoxide electrocatalysts for electrochemical oxidation reaction.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Catalyst Characterization and Discussion**

As indicated in **Figure <sup>1</sup>**[a,](#page-2-0) Co(OH)2 nanowires (Figure S1, Supporting Information) supported on nickel foam were synthesized as Co(OH)2/NF under typical hydrothermal conditions. During the subsequent selenization process, nickel foam and Co(OH)2 served as the nickel and cobalt sources, respectively, which were selenized into NiSe and CoSe2, as detailed in Table S1 (Supporting Information). Additionally, Co(OH)2 can function as a nucleation site for smaller crystalline particles due to its relatively low surface energy, resulting in the formation of a core-shell structure. In this context, the rod-like core (Co(OH)2) gradually transforms into CoSe2 through subsequent ion exchange.[\[20\]](#page-10-0) Importantly, we did not introduce additional nickel and cobalt salts during the selenization process to avoid the formation of an excessively homogeneous single phase. Generally, smaller-sized crystals, due to the high energy associated with their high curvature, tend to dissolve in solution and deposit onto the surfaces of larger crystals (Co(OH)2). This phenomenon resembles the Ostwald ripening effect, which is driven by a decrease in the total particle-phase surface area, leading to a reduction in total interfacial free energy.[\[21\]](#page-10-0) This gradual crystallization and precipitation process will result in the synthesis of a heterojunction structure with a high-density interface.

The surface components of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF were gently scraped to mitigate the influence of the nickel foam peak, and the coexistence of CoSe2 and NiSe phases was confirmed by Xray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). Specifically, the diffraction peaks marked with blue circles correspond to the hexagonal NiSe (JCPDS: 18–0887), which indicates the presence of the NiSe crystalline phase. The peaks marked with red triangles demonstrate a strong match with the cubic CoSe2 (JCPDS: 88–1712). No additional peaks were detected, confirming that no impurities were formed. The morphology of the CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF heterostructure was characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Figure S2 (Supporting Information) demonstrates that the composite material comprises uniform rod-shaped nanosheets, while

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic of the preparation method of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. b) XRD pattern of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. c) SEM image and d) HAADF image of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. e) HRTEM image of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF core. f) HRTEM image of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF shell. g–j) TEM image and the corresponding elemental mappings (Co, Ni, Se).

the enlarged morphology depicted in Figure 1c clearly illustrates that the nanosheets grow around the rod-like nanowires, indicating the formation of the composite phase with a core-shell structure. Using high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) to separately analyze the crystal facets of the core and shell, thereby obtaining more structural information. Figure 1e presents a precise TEM image of the core. The image reveals that the crystal stripes of the core are uniform, with an interplanar spacing of 0.398 nm, which corresponds to the (332) crystal plane of CoSe2. Additionally, Figure 1f and Figure S3 (Supporting Information) are TEM images of the shells, which reveal lattice fringes with d-values of 0.249 and 0.263 nm, corresponding to the (220) and (021) planes of NiSe. Furthermore, the interplanar lattice spacings of 0.338 and 0.195 nm correspond to the (111) and (221) planes of CoSe2, respectively, with a distinct interface observed between CoSe2 and NiSe. The diffraction patterns of the two crystals, obtained from the Fourier transform (Figure 1f inserted picture), show that NiSe exhibits hexagonal diffraction spots that align with the diffraction characteristics of close-packed hexagonal crystals in reciprocal space, while the diffraction spots of CoSe2 display high symmetry and an evenly spaced arrangement, closely resembling the diffraction characteristics of the cubic crystal system, the above discussion suggests that both NiSe and CoSe2 phases are present in the shell

1616938, 2025, 20, Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/10.1002/atmf.202421447 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Onlin

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. High-resolution XPS spectra for a) Ni 2p and b) Co 2p. c) Normalized XANES spectra near Ni K-edge of CoSe<sub>2</sub> @NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF, commercial NiSe samples, and Ni foil. d) Normalized XANES spectra near Co K-edge of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF, CoSe<sub>2</sub>, and Co foil. e) WT-EXAFS spectra of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF at the Ni K-edge and Co K-edge. f) FT-EXAFS spectra. g) Schematic diagram of valence electron coupling.

of the CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF. Furthermore, the high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) image (Figure 1d) reveals atomic contrast corresponding to atomic number, with selenium (Se) exhibiting the highest brightness due to its atomic number, thereby confirming its significant dispersion within the heterojunction material. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) mapping images indicate that the Co, Ni, and Se elements are uniformly distributed within the CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF structure, suggesting a random distribution of NiSe and CoSe, within the assembled heterostructured nanosheets (Figure 1h-i). In comparison to traditional epitaxial heterojunction structures, this method theoretically provides a larger heterojunction interface. [22] More detailed information regarding the surface was acquired through ultrasonic exfoliation, as illustrated in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), which demonstrates a highly uniform distribution of elements across the surface. EDX after ultrasonication (shell) indicates a Co to Ni atomic ratio of 2.59:1 (Figure \$5, Supporting

Information), while the inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES) shows an overall (core and shell) Co to Ni atomic ratio of 11.16:1 for the CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF (Table S2, Supporting Information). Based on the preceding discussion, we can logically deduce that the rod-shaped atomic core is CoSe<sub>2</sub>, and the shell forms a NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub> heterojunction.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed to analyze the surface valence states and chemical environment of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF. As shown in Figure S6a (Supporting Information), the elements Ni, Co, and Se were distinctly identified in the full spectrum. In Figure 2a, the characteristic peaks at 855.3 and 856.1 eV are attributed to Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> of Ni  $2p_{3/2}$ , [23] while the peaks at 873.2 and 874.9 eV correspond to Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> of Ni 2p<sub>1/2</sub>.<sup>[2,24]</sup> In addition to the peaks at 853.1 and 870.7 eV and for metallic Ni, the peaks ≈859.9 and 879.7 eV are identified as Ni satellite signals.<sup>[25]</sup> The characteristic peaks at 778.5 and 793.6 eV correspond to  $Co^{3+}$  of  $Co\ 2p_{3/2}$  and  $Co\ 2p_{1/2}$ , while

the peaks at 780.6 eV and 796.8 eV correspond to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> of Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2, as illustrated in Figure [2b.](#page-3-0) The peaks at 802.1 and 784.6 eV are identified as satellite peaks of Co.[\[26\]](#page-10-0) In the Se 3d spectrum (Figure S6b, Supporting Information), two peaks at 54.2 and 55.1 eV are attributed to Se 3d5/2 and Se 3d3/2, resulting from the spin-orbit splitting of selenide. Another distinct peak at 59.3 eV is associated with SeOx, which arises from unavoidable surface oxidation upon exposure to air.[\[25,27\]](#page-10-0) Importantly, the binding energies of Ni 2p and Co 2p exhibit positive and negative shifts, respectively, indicating electronic redistribution between Co and Ni, with electrons transferring from Ni to Co.

To gain deeper insights into the chemical states of the heterojunction, the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) analysis was conducted to investigate the chemical states of the CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. As illustrated in Figure [2c,](#page-3-0) the Ni Kedge XANES absorption shifts to higher energy compared to pure NiSe, suggesting an increased oxidation state of Ni. Conversely, the Co K-edge in CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF shifts to lower energy relative to pure CoSe2, indicating a reduction in the average oxidation state, which is consistent with the XPS analysis. Wavelet transform results indicate that only Se atoms contribute to the Ni and Co shells within the heterojunction (Figure [2e;](#page-3-0) Figure S7, Supporting Information). The Fourier transform of extended Xray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectroscopy offers deeper insights into the local structure (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). The scattering path ≈2.19 Å corresponds to Ni-Se of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF,[\[18\]](#page-10-0) consistent with standard NiSe and confirming the existence of Ni-Se bonds. For the Co K-edge, the Fourier transform of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF shows a scattering path of 2.12 Å, corresponding to Co-Se bonds. Compared to standard CoSe2, the scattering path increases by 0.05 Å, which might be attributed to the enhanced interfacial coupling in the heterojunction. In addition, the EXAFS spectral fitting results of Ni and Co K-edges in Rspace for CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF are consistent with the theoretical coordination numbers (Figure S8 and Table S3, Supporting Information).[\[28\]](#page-10-0) From the preceding discussion, it is evident that Se exists at the interface of the heterojunction in a bridging configuration, and its electron transfer mechanism can be elucidated based on the electronic configuration illustrated in Figure [2g.](#page-3-0) The -symmetric (t2g) d orbitals of Co2<sup>+</sup> are in a high-spin state,[\[29\]](#page-10-0) containing one unpaired electron, and they interact with the bridging Se2<sup>−</sup> via - interactions. In contrast, the -symmetric (t2g) d orbitals of Ni2<sup>+</sup> are fully occupied, resulting in electronelectron repulsion during the interaction between Ni2<sup>+</sup> and the bridging Se2<sup>−</sup>. [\[30\]](#page-10-0) Consequently, the coupling between Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co2<sup>+</sup> leads to an enhancement of the electron donation capability of the Co-Se bond while diminishing the electron repulsion between Ni-Se bonds, ultimately facilitating partial electron transfer from Ni to Co.[\[31\]](#page-10-0) This transfer occurs spontaneously, resulting in a local redistribution of -symmetric electrons between Ni and Co, which promotes an increase in the oxidation state of Ni. This argument aligns with our anticipated electron transfer scenarios and is consistent with the analysis from XPS and XANES.

### **2.2. Electrochemical HMF Oxidation Performance**

To evaluate the catalytic activity of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF for HMFOR, a typical three-electrode system was employed in a 1 m KOH electrolyte, with or without the addition of 10 mm HMF (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-5-0). The influence of selenization time on the catalytic activity of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF was investigated (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves demonstrate that HMFOR activity increases with hydrothermal time from 2 to 4 hours and decreases at 6 hours, indicating that the sample subjected to hydrothermal treatment for 4 hours possesses an optimal 3D hierarchical micronanostructure, which enhances substrate mass transfer and provides abundant active sites for the electrocatalytic reaction. The LSV curves indicate that the HMFOR efficiency of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF is significantly higher than that of pure NiSe and pure CoSe2 (Figure [3b\)](#page-5-0). Notably, CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF exhibits superior HMFOR activity, requiring potentials of only 1.29 and 1.36 V versus RHE to achieve current densities of 10 and 50 mA∙cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, thus outperforming most catalysts reported in recent works (Table S4, Supporting Information). Moreover, when the current density reaches 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the potential difference with OER is 270 mV, indicating that HM-FOR on the CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF electrode is significantly more favorable than OER. Furthermore, the Tafel slope corresponding to the electron transfer rate for CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF was calculated to investigate the kinetics of the electrooxidation reaction. As shown in Figure S10 (Supporting Information), the Tafel slope for CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF in the HM-FOR is 55 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is notably lower than that of NiSe (91 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and CoSe2 (131 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1). This indicates that the electron transfer rate between HMF molecules and the CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF electrocatalyst interface is faster and that NiSe exhibits greater activity for HMFOR compared to CoSe2. The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) of the catalyst was evaluated (Figure [3c;](#page-5-0) Figure S11, Supporting Information). The ECSA of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF is greater than that of NiSe and CoSe2, demonstrating that the unique wrinkled structure of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF nanorods provides an increased number of electrocatalytic active sites. Subsequently, the LSV curves of HMFOR were normalized based on the ECSA values, Figure S12 (Supporting Information) indicates that CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF exhibits higher intrinsic activity. The open-circuit potential (OCP) was utilized to investigate the adsorption behavior of HMF in the Helmholtz layer. Upon injecting 50 mm HMF into a 1.0 m KOH solution, the ΔOCP of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF (0.102 V) exhibited a more substantial decrease than that of NiSe (0.080 V) and CoSe2 (0.060 V) (Figure [3d\)](#page-5-0). This suggests that the interfacial electron redistribution between NiSe and CoSe2 enhances the adsorption of HMF. Chronoamperometric measurements (Figure [3e\)](#page-5-0) were conducted to assess the electrooxidation of HMF on CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF using an H-type electrochemical cell. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was employed to monitor and quantify the concentration changes of HMF, intermediates, and oxidation products. The calibration curves are illustrated in Figure S13 (Supporting Information). Since one HMF molecule requires six electrons to be oxidized to one FDCA molecule, a theoretical charge of 98.4 C is necessary to completely convert 1.7 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>4</sup> mol HMF (10 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> M HMF in 17 mL of electrolyte) into FDCA. From Figure [3e,](#page-5-0) it is evident that when a theoretical charge of 98.4 C is applied, the HMFOR reaction current approaches zero, indicating complete consumption of HMF in the electrolyte. Additionally, the

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) Electrochemical system for the oxidation of HMF. b) LSV curves of NiSe, CoSe2, and CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF in 1 m KOH with and without 10 mm HMF. c) Cdl curves of NiSe, CoSe2, and CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. d) OCP changes of the samples in 1.0 m KOH after injecting 50 mm HMF. e) The current density and charge versus electrooxidation time curve of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. f) HPLC chromatogram as charge accrues at 1.4 V versus RHE (inset: color change of electrolyte before and after electrolysis). g) Concentration of HMF, intermediates and FDCA during HMFOR for CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF in the three-electrode system. h) HMF conversion tests of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF for FDCA under 30 cycles.

influence of potential was assessed, Figure S14a (Supporting Information) demonstrates the Faradaic efficiency of FDCA approaches 97.9% at 1.4 V versus RHE. Furthermore, during the ten consecutive tests, the total Faradaic efficiency and FDCA yield reached 98.1% and 98.6%, respectively, with a conversion rate approaching 100% (Figure S14b, Supporting Information). CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF exhibits outstanding catalytic performance for HMF oxidation, surpassing that of most currently reported catalysts (Table S5, Supporting Information). The HMF molecule contains two oxygen-containing functional groups (aldehyde and hydroxyl), both of which can be oxidized to carboxylic acids, leading to different reaction pathways (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The reaction pathway for the generation of FDCA from HMF on CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF was investigated. Figure 3f,g illustrate the variations in concentrations of HMF, intermediates, and FDCA in relation to the number of applied electrons. During the oxidation process, only HMFCA was detected, with no evidence of 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF), suggesting that the reaction pathway exclusively follows the HMFCA route. This may be attributed to the oxidation of the aldehyde group in HMF being energetically more favorable than that of the hydroxyl group in a high pH environment.[\[32\]](#page-10-0) Additionally, when the theoretical number of electrons is applied, the electrolyte changes from orange to colorless and transparent, indicating the complete conversion of HMF (Figure 3f). To evaluate the practicality of the CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF catalyst, continuous HMF conversion experiments were conducted. Remarkably, it maintained a Faradaic efficiency for FDCA exceeding 94% over 30 consecutive cycles (Figure 3h), demonstrating its excellent stability for HMFOR. To further assess the stability of the heterojunction structure, CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF underwent 25000 CV tests, during which the LSV curve of HMFOR exhibited only a www.advancedsciencenews.com

1616932, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.20242147 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.afm-journal.de

slight decay post-testing (Figure \$16, Supporting Information), confirming the remarkable stability of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF. SEM results (Figure \$17a, Supporting Information) indicate that the 3D hierarchical micro-nano structure remained largely intact after stability testing, with no significant alterations in the thickness of the nanorods. EDX analysis further validated the high uniformity of Ni and Co (Figure \$17c,d, Supporting Information), further confirming the structural stability.

#### 2.3. Insights into the HMFOR Mechanism

To further investigate the surface changes of the electrode material during the HMFOR process, we conducted a series of insitu spectroscopic and impedance measurements. Initially, we established electrochemical reactions at various potentials using in-situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). This approach elucidated the relationships among interfacial kinetics, electron transfer, and mass transport, thereby clarifying the correlation between structure and catalytic activity. The lowfrequency region ( $10^{-2}$  to  $10^2$  Hz) of the Bode plot corresponds to the uneven charge distribution caused by the electrochemical reactions (OER/HMFOR), particularly the oxidation occurring at the electrode-electrolyte interface. In contrast, the high-frequency region (10<sup>2</sup> to 10<sup>5</sup> Hz) is associated with the internal oxidation of the electrode.[33] **Figure 4a** shows a peak in the low-frequency region at 1.50 V versus RHE, indicating that OER occurs within the range of 1.45 to 1.50 V versus RHE. Furthermore, Figure 4b illustrates a continuous decrease in the phase angle of the lowfrequency region starting from 1.10 V versus RHE. By correlating this potential with the LSV current density  $(1.27 \text{ mA cm}^{-2})$ , we infer that this represents the onset potential for HMFOR, which is significantly lower than that of CoSe<sub>2</sub> (1.40 V vs RHE, Figure \$18b, Supporting Information) and NiSe (1.35 V vs RHE, Figure \$18d, Supporting Information). This suggests that the interfacial interactions within CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF substantially enhance its catalytic activity for HMFOR. In conclusion, CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF in the OER necessitates a higher oxidation potential to reconstruct into high-valent metals, whereas in the HMFOR process, the activation potential of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF is significantly lower than that of the oxidation reconstruction potential, suggesting that HMFOR is more advantageous than deep reconstruction. Such deep reconstruction typically results in the formation of high-valent NiOOH, which arises from the adsorption of OH\* oxide species at the Ni sites. While this phenomenon can enhance the oxidative capacity of the Nibased catalyst, it also significantly damages the non-oxide crystalline matrix before the formation of an ordered dense passivation layer.[34] To elucidate the relationship between the internal oxidation of the electrode and the interfacial reactions, we fitted the EIS data using an optimal equivalent circuit model (Figure \$19, Supporting Information). The fitting parameters for each component are detailed in Tables S6-S8 (Supporting Information). The parameters  $R_p$  and  $R_{ct}$  represent the internal oxidation and interfacial oxidation resistances of the electrode, respectively. Notably, the initial R<sub>p</sub> of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF is significantly lower than that of NiSe and CoSe2, suggesting a reduced internal oxidation resistance (Figure 4c). Furthermore, the observed decline in resistance between 1.05 and 1.1 V versus RHE

suggests a shallow reconstruction phenomenon attributable to internal oxidation, which aligns with Bode's analysis. The R<sub>ct</sub> value is also lower than that of NiSe and CoSe<sub>2</sub> (Figure 4d), indicating a decreased charge transfer resistance and an accelerated electron transfer rate. This value reaches a minimum at 1.05 V versus RHE, confirming the occurrence of HMFOR. Importantly, this shallow reconstruction phenomenon occurred almost simultaneously with HMFOR, demonstrating the presence of direct oxidation. In-situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy was employed to identify the actual active intermediates and the reconstruction process of the catalyst (Figure S20, Supporting Information). As illustrated in Figure 4e, the peak at 186 cm<sup>-1</sup> corresponds to the Se-Se stretching mode of cubic CoSe<sub>2</sub>, while a smaller peak at 682 cm<sup>-1</sup> is associated with the A<sub>1 o</sub> mode of CoSe<sub>2</sub>.[28,35] In 1 M KOH, CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF does not display significant Raman shifts (1.0-1.5 V vs RHE), confirming that no apparent oxidation reconstruction occurs in the catalyst. When the potential reaches 1.55 V versus RHE, two distinct Raman bands emerge, corresponding to the Ni-OH vibration of standard  $\alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> at 450 cm<sup>-1</sup> and the A<sub>1 g</sub> mode of  $\gamma\textsc{-NiOOH}$  at 540  $\textsc{cm}^{-1}.^{[36]}$  This observation indicates a surface reconstruction phenomenon of the catalyst, which follows the sequence NiSe  $\rightarrow \alpha$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>  $\rightarrow \gamma$ -NiOOH. During the HMFOR process, the Raman peaks of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF disappear (Figure 4f) due to the rapid and spontaneous redox reaction between HMF and Ni<sup>3+</sup> (Ni<sup>3+</sup> + HMF  $\rightarrow$  Ni<sup>2+</sup> + HMF<sub>ox</sub>), [10a] indicative of indirect oxidation. This finding is consistent with the in-situ EIS analysis. Notably, the Raman peaks attributed to Se-Se (CoSe<sub>2</sub>) remain unchanged, confirming that the active site of the heterojunction is Ni. In contrast, the comparison sample NiSe exhibits the Raman band of  $\gamma$ -NiOOH (A<sub>1 $\alpha$ </sub>) at 1.0 V versus RHE suggesting an irreversible reconstruction phenomenon during CV scanning (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Upon applying a potential of 1.35 V versus RHE, a new Raman band associated with the Ni-O bending vibration of  $\gamma$ -NiOOH at 479 cm<sup>-1</sup> appears.[37] The intensity of this Raman band increases with the applied potential, demonstrating that NiSe undergoes gradual reconstruction to a higher oxidation state. Additionally, a broad Raman band at 833 cm<sup>-1</sup> is attributed to selenate (SeO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>),<sup>[33]</sup> which likely results from the NiSe surface remodeling process where Ni is oxidized to high-valence NiOOH while selenium is oxidized to selenate. This transformation disrupts the non-oxide matrix and leads to a decrease in the catalyst's performance. It's worth noting that SeO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> was not detected in CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF, even at a high potential of 1.55 V versus RHE. This is attributed to the occurrence of shallow remodeling at low potentials, which helps maintain the stable structure of NiSe crystals. However, SeO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> was not detected at high potentials, primarily due to the low rate of selenium dissolution and the potential formation of bubbles on the surface, which may have affected the adsorption of SeO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>. The dissolution rate of selenium at a potential of 1.5 V versus RHE was assessed using a constant potential, revealing that the dissolution rate of selenium in CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF, following a continuous 14-hour chronopotential test, was 11.21 ng cm<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>, significantly lower than that of NiSe at 57.58 ng cm<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> (Table S9 and Figure S22a, Supporting Information). This finding indicates that CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF exhibits high stability even under high oxidation potentials. Furthermore, the structural and compositional changes observed in

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Bode plots of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF in a) 1 m KOH and b) with 10 mm HMF at various potentials. c, d) Rp and Rct values of NiSe, CoSe2, and CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF during HMFOR. e) Potential-dependent operando Raman spectra of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF in 1 m KOH. f) Potentialdependent operando Raman spectra of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF in 1 m KOH with 10 mm HMF. g) Potential-dependent in-situ attenuated total reflectance surface-enhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR- SEIRAS) during HMFOR.

XPS and XRD analyses before and after the reaction corroborate these results (Figure S22b,c, Supporting Information). In summary, CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF experiences an initial oxidative reconstruction at the onset of the reaction. Once the surface reconstruction is complete, it remains in a relatively stable state characterized by shallow reconstruction. In contrast, the rapid dissolution of Se at the NiSe interface suggests a deep reconstruction process and the formation of NiOOH in a high oxidation state. Collectively, these results demonstrate that CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF expands the catalytic activity potential window of

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) The electron density difference of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF at the interface. b) Mulliken charge of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. c) The DOS of NiSe, CoSe2, and CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. d) HMFOR free energy of NiSe, CoSe2, and CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF. e) The PDOS of HMF and HMF adsorptions on NiSe or CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF.

HMFOR through a direct oxidation mechanism, while simultaneously mitigating the formation of NiOOH in a high valence state, thereby reducing the likelihood of competing reactions. The high stability of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF can be attributed to the presence of different components within the heterojunction material, which inhibits the formation and aggregation of any single component into a hypervalent state.

High-sensitivity ATR-SEIRAS was employed to investigate the reaction intermediates and pathway of HMF during the HM-FOR (Figure S23, Supporting Information). The peaks observed at 1027, 1189, and 1670 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> correspond to adsorbed HMF, while the peaks at 1529 and 1569 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are characteristic of the HMFCA (Figure [4g\)](#page-7-0).[\[3,38\]](#page-10-0) HMFCA is detectable at an applied potential of 1.0 V versus RHE, attributed to the occurrence of the Cannizzaro reaction.[\[39\]](#page-10-0) As the applied potential increases, the intensity of the HMFCA peaks diminishes, indicating its rapid conversion. The peak at 1113 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponds to the asymmetric stretching of the aldehyde group, while the peak at 1150 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> results from collective vibrations of the furan ring.[\[40\]](#page-10-0) The peaks at 1286 and 1450 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are associated with FFCA, the absorption peaks of FFCA and HMF increase with increasing potential and maintain a nearly consistent strength at high potentials. This is attributed to the rapid consumption of reactants near the electrode and the slow mass transfer controlled solely by diffusion in the thin-layer cell of the electrochemistry-coupled ATR-SEIRAS setup, preventing the complete conversion of HMF to FDCA. Consequently, spectra recorded at higher potentials still detect the accumulation of HMF and FFCA, and the peak at 1386 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is characteristic of FDCA.[\[19b\]](#page-10-0) A wide peak in the 3100–3300 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> range are associated with adsorbed hydroxy (H2O). As the applied potential increases, the cumulative intensity of the -OH peak rises, which may enhance the occurrence of competitive reactions (OER). Notably, no peaks corresponding to DFF (1508 cm<sup>−</sup>1) were observed, confirming that the oxidation of HMF follows the HMFCA pathway, consistent with the results obtained from HPLC. These findings reinforce our conclusion that the electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF on the catalyst preferentially adheres to the HMFCA pathway.

DFT calculations were employed to investigate the interface coupling effects generated by the heterojunction, selecting NiSe (220) and CoSe2 (210) crystal planes to construct the heterostructure. The optimized CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF heterojunction model is detailed in Table S10 (Supporting Information). An analysis of the electron density differences reveals a variation in charge density at the heterojunction interface (**Figure 5**a), where green regions denote areas of relative electron density accumulation, and yellow regions indicate areas of electron density depletion. The results of the differential charge calculation indicate significant electron accumulation and consumption at the heterojunction interface, suggesting a redistribution of charge. This charge redistribution and electron transfer may enhance the electronic properties of CoSe2@NiSe-CoSe2/NF, thereby improving its reactivity in the reaction. Notably, distinct yellow and green regions are observed around the Se atoms at the interface,

1616938, 2025, 20, Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/10.1002/atmf.202421447 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library of Commons Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Online Library (of Science, Wiley Onlin

www.afm-journal.de

confirming that Se exhibits both electron accumulation and depletion, thereby functioning as an electronic bridge, which is consistent with our analysis. Additionally, the Mulliken charge distribution results provide a clearer representation of the direction of electron transfer (Figure 5b), where positive values signify that the corresponding atoms are positively charged (in red font) and negative values indicate that certain atoms carry a negative charge. Mulliken charge distribution results imply that Ni loses electrons, Se transfers electrons, and Co gains electrons. The density of states (DOS) reveals the difference of band structure among different structures, Figure 5c demonstrates that CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF exhibits a greater density of electronic states near the Fermi level. This phenomenon can be attributed to the coexistence of Ni and Co 3d orbitals in conjunction with Se p orbitals. The increased density of states suggests that CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF exhibits superior electron transport dynamics compared to single-phase NiSe or CoSe<sub>2</sub>. The d-band center theory is commonly utilized to elucidate the strength of interactions between adsorbates and surfaces, the energy level of the d-band center significantly influences the occupancy of the antibonding bands, ultimately determining the stability and strength of the resultant adsorption bonds. The d-band centers for bulk NiSe and CoSe<sub>2</sub> are measured at -2.09 eV (ε<sub>d</sub>-Ni) and -2.12 eV (ε<sub>d</sub>-Co), respectively. In the optimized CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF heterojunction, the  $\varepsilon_d$ -Ni (-1.94 eV) and  $\varepsilon_d$ -Co (-2.41 eV) exhibit a positive and negative shift, respectively, with the  $\varepsilon_d$ -Ni of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF being closer to the Fermi level. This proximity indicates that Ni serves as a more favorable adsorption site, characterized by reduced electron filling in the antibonding orbitals, leading to enhanced stability of HMF adsorption. Various adsorption modes were evaluated using the DFT method. As indicated in the Table S11 (Supporting Information), the adsorption energy associated with the horizontal adsorption mode on the surface of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF is lower than that of the vertical mode, which also demonstrates an increased adsorption capacity ([-0.12] eV). In the vertical adsorption mode, the Ni sites exposed on the surface serve as adsorption sites for HMF molecules, exhibiting significant reactivity towards HMF adsorption. The carbonyl oxygen (C=O) in the HMF molecule forms a bond with the Ni atom. Additionally, the adsorption energy of HMF on CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF is -0.85 eV, which is the highest compared to NiSe, indicating that interface electron redistribution enhances HMF adsorption on CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF, thereby improving the electrocatalytic reaction activity. Additionally, we examined the evolution of Gibbs free energy associated with the electrooxidation of HMF to FDCA across various configurations. Based on the experimental and characterization results, the oxidation pathway of HMF follows the HMFCA route. The optimized models for the adsorption of HMF and its intermediates are summarized in Table S12 (Supporting Information), while Figure 5d illustrates the corresponding free energy profile. The rate-determining step is utilized to characterize the HMFOR activity, with the dehydrogenation of HMFCA to FFCA identified as the step exhibiting the greatest energy change, quantified as 0.51 eV for CoSe<sub>2</sub>, 0.38 eV for NiSe, and 0.31 eV for CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF. Notably, the reaction barrier for the ratedetermining step of CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF is the lowest, indicating that interfacial transfer and electron redistribution significantly enhance HMFOR activity. To elucidate the bonding

characteristics of this configuration, we conducted a density of states analysis of the catalyst in the adsorption state, as depicted in Figure 5e. The observed changes in the density of states before and after HMF adsorption confirm that electron redistribution occurs between HMF and the catalyst. Furthermore, the projected density of states (PDOS) of HMF with Ni in CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF reveals orbital broadening near the Fermi level, suggesting that the d orbitals and energy levels of Ni in CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe- $CoSe_2/NF$  are well-aligned with the  $\sigma$  orbitals of HMF, facilitating the formation of d- $\sigma$  bonding orbitals. Additionally, the overlap area of the d orbitals of Ni with HMF in CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF is greater than that in NiSe, underscoring the significant role of interfacial electron redistribution in promoting HMF adsorption. Consequently, both DFT simulations and experimental findings validate the high efficiency of the heterojunction CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF electrocatalyst and elucidate the mechanisms underlying its exceptional catalytic performance for HMF.

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary, we developed a highly dispersed heterojunction catalyst utilizing the Ostwald ripening effect, which exhibited outstanding performance in HMFOR, achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an anodic potential of 1.29 V versus RHE. The catalyst demonstrated an impressive Faradaic efficiency of 98.1%, along with remarkable stability. Through a comprehensive analysis involving in-situ EIS, Raman spectroscopy, and ATR-SEIRAS spectroscopy, we explored the interfacial reconstruction and oxidation mechanisms of the catalyst under HMFOR conditions. The CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF catalyst extended the active potential window for HMF through a direct oxidation mechanism during HMFOR. Subsequent structural characterization and DFT calculations revealed that cobalt, mediated by selenium, modulated the band structure of nickel, thereby enhancing the d- $\sigma$ bond between Ni and HMF. This resulted in the CoSe<sub>2</sub>@NiSe-CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF interface exhibiting the highest HMF adsorption energy and a reduced energy barrier for the rate-determining step of HMFOR. This work not only presents an efficient and highly stable catalyst for HMFOR but also inspires new approaches for the design and synthesis of high-performance catalysts. Furthermore, it enhances our understanding of the mechanisms underlying HMFOR.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

S.L.,W.C. and M.J. contributed equally to this work. The work was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant numbers: 22479109, 21978198).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>**Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction, biomass conversion, electrocatalysis, heterojunction, hydrogen energy

> Received: November 6, 2024 Revised: December 23, 2024 Published online: January 2, 2025

- [1] R. Ge, Y. Wang, Z. Li, M. Xu, S. M. Xu, H. Zhou, K. Ji, F. Chen, J. Zhou, H. Duan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202200211.
- [2] Y. Sun, J. Wang, Y. Qi, W. Li, C. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 202200957.
- [3] S. Barwe, J. Weidner, S. Cychy, D. M. Morales, S. Dieckhöfer, D. Hiltrop, J. Masa, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 11460.
- [4] X. Zhang, M. Fevre, G. O. Jones, R. M. Waymouth, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *118*, 839.
- [5] D. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Cao, L. Wang, H. Lee, G. Lin, W. Li, G. Ding, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202309478.
- [6] Y. Lv, C. Yang, H. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Xiang, S. Lu, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2020**, *10*, 2484.
- [7] P. Xu, Z. Bao, Y. Zhao, L. Zheng, Z. Lv, X. Shi, H. E. Wang, X. Fang, H. Zheng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *14*, 202303557.
- [8] a) T. Zhang, S. Liu, W. Cai, X. He, H. Wang, B. Zhu, Y. Qin, J. Zhang, X. Liu, X. Zhang, F. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *500*, 156766; b) S. Liu, M. Jin, J. Sun, Y. Qin, S. Gao, Y. Chen, S. Zhang, J. Luo, X. Liu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *437*, 135294; c) S. Liu, L. Wang, H. Yang, S. Gao, Y. Liu, S. Zhang, Y. Chen, X. Liu, J. Luo, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2104965.
- [9] X. Zhang, J. Zhao, C. Che, J. Qin, T. Wan, F. Sun, J. Ma, Y. Long, *J. Catal.* **2022**, *416*, 129.
- [10] a) D. Xiao, X. Bao, D. Dai, Y. Gao, S. Si, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, P. Wang, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, Y. Dai, B. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304133; b) L. Zeng, Y. Chen, M. Sun, Q. Huang, K. Sun, J. Ma, J. Li, H. Tan, M. Li, Y. Pan, Y. Liu, M. Luo, B. Huang, S. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17577; c) J. Chen, Z. Ma, J. Qin, M. Chen, L. Dong, W. Mao, X. Zhou, Y. Long, J. Ma, *Fuel* **2023**, *353*, 129216.
- [11] a) S. Yang, Y. Guo, P. Zhao, H. Jiang, H. Shen, Z. Chen, L. Jiang, X. Xue, Q. Zhang, H. Zhang, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 449; b) Z. Yang, J. Hui, W. Fan, P. Liu, C. Zhang, S. Dong, Z. Yang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2025**, *101*, 156.
- [12] a) W. Chen, Y. Wang, B. Wu, J. Shi, Y. Li, L. Xu, C. Xie, W. Zhou, Y. C. Huang, T. Wang, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, C. Chen, J. Zheng, J. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. Zou, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 202105320; b) R. Luo, Y. Li, L. Xing, N. Wang, R. Zhong, Z. Qian, C. Du, G. Yin, Y. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2022**, *311*, 121357; c) N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 15895.
- [13] N. Xi, Y. Zang, X. Sun, J. Yu, M. Johnsson, Y. Dai, Y. Sang, H. Liu, X. Yu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2301572.
- [14] Q. Ji, Y. Kong, H. Tan, H. Duan, N. Li, B. Tang, Y. Wang, S. Feng, L. Lv, C. Wang, F. Hu, W. Zhang, L. Cai, W. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 4318.

- [15] R. Li, H. Wang, F. Hu, K. C. Chan, X. Liu, Z. Lu, J. Wang, Z. Li, L. Zeng, Y. Li, X. Wu, Y. Xiong, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3540.
- [16] Y. Zhu, Q. Qian, Y. Chen, X. He, X. Shi, W. Wang, Z. Li, Y. Feng, G. Zhang, F. Cheng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2300547.
- [17] G. Liu, T. Nie, Z. Song, X. Sun, T. Shen, S. Bai, L. Zheng, Y. F. Song, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202311969.
- [18] S. Wang, Y. Yan, Y. Du, Y. Zhao, T. Li, D. Wang, P. Schaaf, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2404290.
- [19] a) D. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Cao, L. Wang, H. Lee, G. Lin, W. Li, G. Ding, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2023**, *62*, 202309478; b) Y. Wu, L. Ma, J. Wu, M. Song, C. Wang, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311698.
- [20] Y. Fang, X. Y. Yu, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706668.
- [21] a) J. Xue, R. Wang, K.-L. Wang, Z.-K. Wang, I. Yavuz, Y. Wang, Y. Yang, X. Gao, T. Huang, S. Nuryyeva, J.-W. Lee, Y. Duan, L.-S. Liao, R. Kaner, Y. Yang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 13948; b) M. Schieder, C. Bojer, J. vom Stein, S. Koch, T. Martin, H. Schmalz, J. Breu, T. Lunkenbein, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 13968.
- [22] S. Liu, F. Wang, J. Wang, Z. Wang, X. He, T. Zhang, Z. Zhang, Q. Liu, X. Liu, X. Zhang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2024**, *355*, 124148.
- [23] J. Kim, M. C. Kim, S. S. Han, K. Cho, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2315625.
- [24] Y. Li, X. Wei, L. Chen, J. Shi, M. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5335.
- [25] B. Zhao, J. Liu, C. Xu, R. Feng, P. Sui, L. Wang, J. Zhang, J. L. Luo, X. Z. Fu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *31*, 2008812.
- [26] a) H. J. Song, H. Yoon, B. Ju, D.-Y. Lee, D.-W. Kim, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 702; b) R. Liang, C. Shu, A. Hu, M. Li, Z. Ran, R. Zheng, J. Long, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *393*, 124592.
- [27] T. Chen, Y. Tan, *Nano Res.* **2018**, *11*, 1331.
- [28] Y. Liu, H. Cheng, M. Lyu, S. Fan, Q. Liu, W. Zhang, Y. Zhi, C. Wang, C. Xiao, S. Wei, B. Ye, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 15670.
- [29] D. Wang, Y. Chao, K. Guo, Z. Wang, M. Yang, J. Zhu, X. Cui, Q. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2405642.
- [30] R.-Y. Fan, H.-Y. Zhao, Z.-Y. Zhao, W.-H. Hu, X. Liu, J.-F. Yu, H. Hu, Y.-M. Chai, B. Dong, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *16*, 12026.
- [31] J.-G. Li, H. Sun, L. Lv, Z. Li, X. Ao, C. Xu, Y. Li, C. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 8106.
- [32] X. Lu, K. H. Wu, B. Zhang, J. Chen, F. Li, B. J. Su, P. Yan, J. M. Chen, W. Qi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 14528.
- [33] W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C. L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7297.
- [34] X. Hu, R. Wang, W. Feng, C. Xu, Z. Wei, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *81*, 167.
- [35] M. Yousaf, Y. Chen, H. Tabassum, Z. Wang, Y. Wang, A. Y. Abid, A. Mahmood, N. Mahmood, S. Guo, R. P. S. Han, P. Gao, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1902907.
- [36] Y. Sun, H. Shin, F. Wang, B. Tian, C.-W. Chiang, S. Liu, X. Li, Y. Wang, L. Tang, W. A. Goddard, M. Ding, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 15185.
- [37] J. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, G. Rao, C. Wu, Y. Hu, X. Wang, R. Lu, Y. Li, J. Xiong, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 17458.
- [38] Y. Xie, Z. Zhou, N. Yang, G. Zhao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102886.
- [39] T. Wang, L. Tao, X. Zhu, C. Chen, W. Chen, S. Du, Y. Zhou, B. Zhou, D. Wang, C. Xie, P. Long, W. Li, Y. Wang, R. Chen, Y. Zou, X.-Z. Fu, Y. Li, X. Duan, S. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *5*, 66.
- [40] a) P. Zhou, X. Lv, H. Huang, B. Cheng, H. Zhan, Y. Lu, T. Frauenheim, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2312402; b) J. Vander Steen, F. Boissou, M. Luhmer, C. Buess-Herman, S. Baranton, C. Coutanceau, T. Doneux, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2023**, *933*, 117269.