---
source: Liu 等 - 2025 - Bifunctional MoNi4 Nickel Foam Electro‐Catalyst for Ultra‐Efficient Oxidation of High‐Co.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 26.409s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:44:14.521362Z
---

Check for updates

www.chemsuschem.org

# Bifunctional MoNi<sub>4</sub>/Nickel Foam Electro-Catalyst for Ultra-Efficient Oxidation of High-Concentration 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural and HER

Hao Liu,<sup>[a]</sup> Jie Xia,<sup>[a]</sup> Xiaohui Liu,\*<sup>[a]</sup> Yongfeng Hu,<sup>[b]</sup> Mohsen Shakouri,<sup>[c]</sup> Haoran Wu,<sup>[d]</sup> Minghui Zhu,<sup>[d]</sup> Yong Guo,\*<sup>[a]</sup> Jingye Chen,<sup>[e]</sup> Haifeng Wang,<sup>[a]</sup> and Yanqin Wang<sup>[a]</sup>

The electro-catalytic oxidation of biomass-derived 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) provides an attractive route to produce 2, 5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) as a substitute for terephthalic acid used in the plastics industry. Herein, we prepared MoNi<sub>4</sub> alloy on nickel foam (NF) using a simple hydrothermal method followed by hydrogen reduction. Applied MoNi<sub>4</sub>/NF as the bifunctional electrodes for the electro-catalytic HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR) and HER, 98.7% FDCA yield and 97.3% Faraday efficiency (FE) can be achieved even with HMF concentration as high as 200 mM. Notably, no obvious

deactivation was observed after ten consecutive cycles. In-situ Raman, XANES and EXAFS results show that the nickel species of MoNi<sub>4</sub>/NF is first oxidized to Ni<sup>3+</sup> species under the applied voltage, and after undergoing the electro-catalytic HMFOR, then reduced to Ni<sup>2- $\delta$ </sup> state (with a valence between 0 and +2) due to the electron-donating effect from Mo. MoNi<sub>4</sub>/NF with more than one electron transfer between Ni<sup>3+</sup> and Ni<sup>2- $\delta$ </sup> during the HMFOR enables it to have excellent electro-catalytic oxidation ability toward HMFOR.

#### 1. Introduction

Over the past century, the increasing demand for oil and its products has led to a higher consumption rate of the earth's limited fossil energy resources. [1,2] Increasing environmental pollution and fossil energy shortages have prompted in-depth research on efficient, clean, environmentally friendly and sustainable energy systems. [3,4]

Biomass energy, being renewable, plays a crucial role in protecting and improving the ecological environment, making it one of the most desirable sources of renewable energy. Among the derived intermediates of biomass, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is one of the furan compounds and considered to be the most important precursor chemical for the production of plastics, liquid fuels and pharmaceuticals. For Jacobs 16,71 2, 5-Furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), one product of HMF oxidation, can replace the use of terephthalic acid in the plastics industry. Among

[a] Shanghai Key Laboratory of Functional Materials Chemistry, Research Institute of Industrial Catalysis, School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, P. R. China

Correspondence: Xiaohui Liu and Yong Guo, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Functional Materials Chemistry, Research Institute of Industrial Catalysis, School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, P. R. China. Email: xhliu@ecust.edu.cn and quoyong@ecust.edu.cn

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.202401516 various HMF oxidation methods, electro-catalytic oxidation is a promising pathway, which has features such as mild reaction conditions, low energy consumption, high atom utilization, and good safety performance compared with thermochemical oxidation. [9] For HMF electro-catalytic conversion, electrode materials play a decisive role to improve the efficiency of electro-catalytic HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR).[10] Among which precious metal materials such as Pt,[11,12] Pd,[13,14] Au,[13,14] and Ru<sup>[15]</sup> have been widely reported to be applied in the electro-catalytic HMFOR. However, the high cost limits their widespread commercial application, leading to a growing interest in non-precious metal materials.[16] Nickel-based materials were found to a class of non-precious metals which have great potential for electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF.[17-19] Wang and his colleagues demonstrated by in-situ Raman spectroscopy that during the electro-catalytic HMFOR NiFeP heterojunction was reconstructed to produce NiOOH to oxidize HMF, which is itself reduced to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, and then forms NiOOH again under the applied potential, making the HMFOR a cyclic process.[20] However, in the vast majority of reported electrocatalytic HMFOR, only very low concentrations of HMF (typically 10 mM) are used for catalyst characterization and determination of the mechanism of the reaction.[16] There is a lack of exploration for the oxidation of high-concentration HMF, which is necessary for practical application. On the other hand, utilizing the HMFOR instead of the traditional oxygen evolution reaction (OER) as the anodic reaction, combined with the cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) in the same cell, the integrated system not only significantly reduces the cell voltage but also generates hydrogen while producing highvalue products, thus greatly enhancing the utilization of input energy.[21] Nevertheless, it is worth noting that while nonprecious metal materials are used as anodes, precious metal Pt

<sup>[</sup>b] Sinopec Shanghai Research Institute of Petrochemical Technology, Shanghai, China

<sup>[</sup>c] Canadian Light Source Inc., Saskatoon, SK, Canada

<sup>[</sup>d] State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai, China

<sup>[</sup>e] Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada

is still commonly employed as the cathode electrode material. The idea of replacing precious metal materials with nonprecious metal materials has not yet been realized practically. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a new type of non-precious metal electrode to replace the precious metal materials used for both anode and cathode to achieve high efficiency oxidation of high-concentration HMF.

In our previous work,[22,23] we studied the performance of phosphorus-doped nickel-based catalysts in the electro-catalytic oxidation of HMF to FDCA. According to ATR-SEIRAS, XPS, and in-situ Raman results, it can be concluded that Ni2<sup>+</sup> species under applied potential was transformed to the high-valence nickel species/Ni3<sup>+</sup> species with P OH and the ring-shaped P O group. Therefore, we believe that it is feasible to change the electronic state of Ni species by doping some elements, especially those with slightly greater electronegativity than Ni, in order to facilitate the rapid conversion between different Ni species during the reaction process for efficient HMFOR.

MoNi4 alloy is a widely reported electro-catalyst with high HER performance.[24–26] It is expected to replace the noble metal Pt as the cathode material in HMFOR, but its application in biomass oxidation reaction has been rarely studied. May the incorporation of Mo with higher electronegativity into Ni-based catalysts also be beneficial for their electro-catalytic oxidation performance? Therefore, in this study, we report the application of MoNi4/nickel foam (MoNi4/NF) as a bifunctional catalyst for HMFOR coupled with water reduction for hydrogen production. Just as we have hypothesized, the results showed this unique catalyst enables simultaneous production of high-value FDCA and H2 with lower energy consumption, while exhibiting high electro-catalytic activity even at high concentrations of HMF. It should be noted that, MoNi4/NF can be prepared using a simple hydrothermal method followed by thermal reduction with H2. The catalyst can achieve up to full conversion of 200 mM HMF and 98.7% FDCA yield with 97.3% Faraday efficiency (FE) at 1.45 V vs. the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). Moreover, in the cathodic HER, electrochemical tests show that MoNi4/NF can completely replace the traditional noble metal Pt material.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Characterization of Electro-Catalysts**

As shown in Figure S1a, the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the MoNi4/NF precursor, namely that before reduction, can be attributed to NiMoO4 (PDF# 45–0142) and MoO3 (PDF# 35– 0609), proving the successful synthesis of NiMoO4/NF. The XRD patterns after H2 thermal reduction treatment (Figure S1b) show that the diffraction peaks at 2θ=43.5°, 50.4°, 51.2°, 74.7° correspond to the MoNi4 alloy (PDF# 65–5480). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) shows that in the Ni 2p spectra (Figure S1c), the peaks at 852.8 and 870.0 eV correspond to the Ni<sup>0</sup> 2p3/2 and Ni<sup>0</sup> 2p1/2, respectively.[26] Figure S1d shows that in the Mo 3d XPS spectra, the peak at 228.1 eV corresponds to Mo<sup>0</sup> 3d5/2. [24] The above results indicate that NiMoO4/NF was reduced to MoNi4/NF in the reducing atmosphere.

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images (Figure S2) show that the NiMoO4/NF precursor is composed of a large number of nanorods distributed with a 3D structured Ni foam backbone, and the nanorod structure is preserved after hydrogen reduction treatment (Figure 1a-b). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure S3) show that the surface of NiMoO4/NF nanorods is uniform and smooth. After hydrogen reduction treatment, the surface of the nanorods shows some areas of darker color (Figure 1c). As shown in Figure 1d–f, highresolution TEM (HRTEM) shows clear lattice fringe with lattice distances of 0.183 nm and 0.206 nm corresponding to the (310) and (121) facets of MoNi4, respectively. The EDS elemental mapping image (Figure 1g–h) shows that Ni and Mo elements are uniformly distributed over the entire surface of the nanorods.

#### **2.2. Electro-Catalytic Performance for HMFOR and HER**

We evaluated the electro-catalytic activities of Ni/NF, Mo/NF and MoNi4/NF in 0.1 M KOH and 10 mM HMF solutions using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) (It should be noted that Ni/NF and Mo/NF refer to catalysts prepared using the same method as MoNi4/NF, but with the addition of only Ni(NO3)2 ·6H2O and (NH4)6Mo7O24 ·4H2O, respectively). As shown in Figure 2a, MoNi4/ NF requires only 1.44 V (reversible hydrogen electrode, RHE) to achieve a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is significantly lower than the other two catalysts. As shown in Figure S5, the currents of all three catalysts were significantly increased after the addition of HMF, indicating that HMFOR is thermodynamically more favorable than OER.[27] It is a remarkable fact that for Ni/NF and MoNi4/NF in the absence of HMF, an oxidation peak is observed, which is formed by the oxidation of low valence Ni to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. [20] The oxidation peaks on MoNi4/NF disappeared after the addition of HMF, which was due to the fact that the Ni oxidation characteristic current peaks were overwhelmed by the currents from the HMF oxidation. In this case, Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> generated from the oxidation of the electrode surface is rapidly consumed by the oxidation of HMF, so that no obvious oxidation peaks are observed.[8] However, for Ni/NF, the oxidation rate of HMF on its surface is slower and the resulting oxidation current is too small to completely cover the peaks generated by the oxidation of nickel species.

In order to further compare the reaction performance of the above catalysts in electro-catalytic HMFOR, a series of performance evaluations were carried out for the constant potential oxidation of HMF in an H-type electrolytic cell at 1.35, 1.40, 1.45, 1.50, and 1.55 V for a controlled reaction time of 2 h, respectively. For MoNi4/NF (Figure 2b), the HMF conversion, FDCA yield and FE were simultaneously maximized at 1.45 V with 99.9%, 98.8% and 98.9%, respectively. Continuing to increase the voltage leads to a slight decrease in FE, which is due to the insufficient supply of HMF at the electrode surface under high potentials, resulting in part of the charge being used for OER.[11] Ni/NF and Mo/NF showed poor electro-catalytic activity in the whole potential range (Figure S6). In addition, due to the low catalytic efficiency, some HMF will undergo the

1864564x, 2025, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401516 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1. (a–b)** SEM images, (c) TEM image, (d–f) HRTEM images for MoNi4/NF. Elemental mapping images for MoNi4/NF (g) Ni, (h) Mo.

**Figure 2.** All anode tests were performed in 0.1 M KOH with 10 mM HMF (a) LSV curves, (b) FE, conversion of HMF, and the FDCA yield at different potentials on MoNi4/NF, (c) Nyquist plots, (d) capacitive currents, (e) Product distributions for potentiostatic electrolysis reaction of HMF on MoNi4/NF versus reaction time at 1.45 V, and (f) The LSV curves of the MoNi4/NF and Pt sheet catalysts in 0.1 M KOH for HER.

,

Cannizzaro reaction under alkaline conditions, which made HMF conversion high but FDCA yield low. The above results indicate that the single-component Ni or Mo catalysts exhibited low electro-catalytic performance in HMFOR, but when these two components undergo a hydrothermal reaction and further hydrogen reduction to produce a nickel-molybdenum alloy, the electro-catalytic activity is significantly enhanced. In addition, MoNi4/NF also exhibited good HMFOR electro-catalytic activity compared with other Ni-based catalysts that have been reported (Table S1).

The catalytic kinetics of the above catalysts in electrocatalytic HMFOR were tested by electro-chemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements. As shown in Figure 2c, Nyquist plots show that MoNi4/NF has the semicircle with the smallest diameter. This indicates that the charge transfer resistance of MoNi4/NF is significantly reduced compared with Ni/NF and Mo/NF, and the electrons are more favorable to be transported on the surface of the electrode, which promotes the charge transfer between the electrode and the electrolyte during the reaction process. In order to gain insight into the intrinsic activities of the above catalysts, their electrochemical surface areas (ECSA) in HMFOR were compared by estimating their electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) in the non-Faradaic regions using cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves (Figure S7). As shown in Figure 2d, the Cdl values of Ni/NF, Mo/NF and MoNi4/NF are calculated to be 2.26, 2.01 and 6.76 mFcm <sup>2</sup> respectively. This clearly shows that doping Mo into Ni and further hydrogen reduction treatment lead to a dramatic increase in Cdl value as well as ECSA. This suggests that more catalytically active sites can be exposed on the MoNi4/NF catalyst for HMFOR.

As shown in Figure S8, there are two pathways involved in the oxidation of HMF to FDCA. We performed HMFOR tests in an H-type electrolytic cell using MoNi4/NF as a catalyst and used HPLC to detect changes of the concentrations of HMF, FDCA and intermediates. Since the complete oxidation of HMF to FDCA theoretically requires a charge of 34.7 C (10 mM HMF in 6 mL electrolyte), we tested the charge of 34.7 C at a voltage of 1.45 V. From the HPLC chromatogram results obtained at 1.45 V (Figure S9f), the peak intensity of HMF decreases gradually while the peak intensity of FDCA increases as the charge accrues from 0 to 34.7 C. Figure 2e shows the product distributions of HMFOR on MoNi4/NF versus reaction time. It can be seen that there are two main intermediates, HMFCA and FFCA, and both of their concentrations are lower than 0.6 mM during the HMFOR of 10 mM HMF. This suggests that MoNi4/NF catalysis of HMFOR has fast reaction kinetics, with intermediates being immediately oxidized to FDCA as soon as they are produced. Unfortunately, it is not possible to make a final conclusion on the reaction pathway based on the product distributions.

For the whole electrolytic cell, HMFOR is only the anodic oxidation reaction, in other words, the half-cell reaction. The hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), which occurs simultaneously at the cathode, also plays an important role in the performance of the whole cell reaction. We evaluated the HER activity of MoNi4/NF in 0.1 M KOH solution and compared it with Pt sheet. As shown in Figure 2f, MoNi4/NF requires an overpotential of only 101 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , while Pt sheet requires an overpotential of 148 mV. Tafel slope calculations showed (Figure S10) that the MoNi4/NF catalyst was only 40.7 mVdec <sup>1</sup> , which was much smaller than that of the Pt sheet (85.6 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), and the lower Tafel slope of MoNi4/NF proved that it had faster HER catalytic kinetics. This is due to the fact that MoNi4/NF with a three-dimensional structure provides a large number of active sites, which effectively promotes electrons and ions transport.[26] We also evaluated the overall electro-catalytic HMFOR activity when MoNi4/NF or Pt was used as counter electrodes, respectively. As shown in Table S2, the two electrodes exhibited similar HMF conversions and FDCA yields. These results suggest that MoNi4/NF can substitute noble metals as a bifunctional catalyst to simultaneously promote HMFOR and HER.

In addition, we studied the HER and HMFOR performance of NiMoO4, MoNi4/NF and foam nickel NF. Here, MoNi4/NF acts as the anode in all reaction. As shown in Figure S11 and Table S3, the activity order of the three catalysts in HER is as follows: MoNi4/NF*>*NiMoO4/NF*>*NF. At the same time, the performance in HMFOR is also displayed in descending order as MoNi4/ NF*>*NiMoO4/NF*>*NF. This indicates that the HER reaction rate at the cathode will affect the activity of HMFOR at anode if the catalytic performance of the anode is good enough, that is, the rate of HER slowed down then the activity of HMFOR would reduce. This is likely due to that HER reaction speed decreases, resulting in deferring cathodic charge transfer and slower overall charge transfer rate then reducing the activity of HMFOR.

#### **2.3. Electro-Catalytic Performance and Stability for Different Concentrations HMF Oxidation**

As mentioned earlier, MoNi4/NF exhibited good catalytic activity in the electro-catalytic HMFOR and HER. Therefore, we realized paired electrolysis by integrating the two half-reactions in the same electrolyzer to fully utilize the potential of water as an oxygen and hydrogen source (Figure 3a). In order to evaluate the performance of MoNi4/NF as a bifunctional electrode material, we performed ten consecutive HMFOR cycling tests at a potentiostatic electrolysis of 1.45 V. As shown in Figure 3b, after ten cycles of electrocatalytic reaction, 100% HMF conversion, more than 95% FDCA yield and FE could still be achieved on MoNi4/NF. In order to explore the prospect of MoNi4/NF catalysts for the industrial application of catalytic HMFOR coupled HER, we evaluated the electro-catalytic activity and stability of MoNi4/NF in 100 mM and 200 mM HMF electrolytes, respectively. As shown in Figure 3c-d, 98.7% FDCA yield and 97.3% Faraday efficiency (FE) can be achieved even with 200 mM HMF. Moreover, we found that MoNi4/NF had no obvious deactivation in ten cyclic reactions of high-concentration HMF, which indicated that MoNi4/NF has strong alkali resistance and catalytic ability to catalyze high-concentration HMFOR. At the same time, we noticed that the reaction consistently maintained a high carbon balance throughout the

**Figure 3.** (a) Schematic diagram of H-type electrochemical cell, HMFOR performance in (b) 0.1 M KOH+10 mM HMF (c) 1 M KOH+100 mM HMF and (d) 2 M KOH+200 mM HMF for ten successive cycles on MoNi4/NF.

cycle, indicating that MoNi4/NF has a very fast electrocatalytic HMF reaction rate, which reduces degradation loss of highly concentrated HMF under KOH. The above results demonstrate the potential of MoNi4/NF catalysts for powerful electro-catalytic HMFOR coupled to hydrogen production.

#### **2.4. Electronic Properties of MoNi4/NF Catalyst During the HMFOR Process**

To further investigate the actual catalytic species on electrodes during the HMFOR, we conducted in-situ Raman spectroscopy experiments at various potentials. As shown in Figure 4a, no atomic vibrations were detected by Raman technique for MoNi4/NF alloy without applied voltage.[26] By comparison, three sets of obvious peaks were detected without applying voltage on the NiMoO4/NF sample (Figure 4b). The peak at 948 cm <sup>1</sup> belongs to the stretching vibration of Mo O Ni bond,[28] and the peaks at 357 cm <sup>1</sup> and 787–897 cm <sup>1</sup> are attributed to the asymmetric bending vibration and symmetric stretching vibration of Mo=O in the MoO4 tetrahedron, respectively.[29,30] For MoNi4/NF sample, gradual enhancement of the above mentioned three peaks with increasing voltage indicates that the catalyst undergoes an oxidation reaction to form Mo O Ni and Mo=O bond. When the voltage was increased to 1.45 V, a new peak belonging to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species appeared at 555 cm <sup>1</sup> . [20,28] This peak continues to climb as the voltage grows further, indicating that more Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species are generated at higher voltages. Similarly, as shown in Figure 4b, NiMoO4/NF also shows peaks belonging to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> at 475 and 555 cm <sup>1</sup> when the applied voltage is increased to 1.45 V. Unlike MoNi4/NF, the peaks become weaker after further improving the voltage to 1.75 V. This is likely caused by the rapid depletion of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> due to the simultaneous occurrence of OER and HMFOR at high voltages. This also suggests that Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species in NiMoO4/NF are more easily consumed by OER than MoNi4/NF at high voltages.

The electronic structure of the fresh and used catalysts was further investigated using X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectroscopy. Generally, a higher ''white line" in the XANES spectrum could be observed for metals in higher oxidation states.[31] As shown in Figure 4c, fresh NiMoO4/NF and MoNi4/NF exhibited the highest and lowest white line intensity in the Ni K-edge XANES spectra, respectively. And the white line intensity of MoNi4/NF is different from that of Ni foil, indicating that the Ni species in MoNi4/NF sample are different from metallic nickel but form alloys with Mo. After ten HMFOR, the white line intensity of Ni K-edge of both NiMoO4/NF-post and MoNi4/NF-post is below that of NiO. Moreover, the white line

**Figure 4.** In-situ Raman spectra of (a) MoNi4/NF and (b) NiMoO4/NF during HMFOR under increasing potential. XANES spectra of the (c) Ni K-edge and (d) Mo K-edge. EXAFS spectra of the (e) Ni K-edge and (f) Mo K-edge.

intensity of Ni K-edge of MoNi4/NF-post is much lower than that of NiMoO4/NF-post sample. These show that the valence state of Ni species of MoNi4/NF-post is between 0 and +2 valence and much lower than that of NiMoO4/NF-post sample after HMFOR. On the other hand, we observe a shift of the edge position toward a higher binding energy in the Mo K-edge spectrum of MoNi4/NF compared with that of NiMoO4/NF whether it is a fresh catalyst or a catalyst after HMFOR (Figure 4d), which implies that the oxidized valence state of Mo species of MoNi4/NF sample is higher than that of NiMoO4/NF sample.[32] Based on these results, we inferred that electron transfer occurs from Mo species to Ni species of MoNi4/NF by forming the nickel molybdenum alloy,[33] thus leading to the Ni<sup>2</sup> <sup>δ</sup> species with a valence between 0 and +2. This assignment is further supported by direct comparison in the corresponding k2 weighted Fourier Transform of the EXAFS spectra. As shown in the Ni K-edge EXAFS of Figure 4e, for NiO, we observed a Ni Ni distance in the second coordination shell at 2.49 Å and for the Ni foil the Ni Ni bond in the first coordination shell is 2.15 Å. However, MoNi4/NF exhibited neither NiO nor Ni foil like results, and it shows a broad peak near 2.36 Å indicating that its Ni Ni overlaps with Ni Mo bond. We also did not observe Mo Mo bond belonging to the first shell layer in the Mo Kedge EXAFS spectra (Figure 4f), which suggests that Mo was successfully doped between the Ni Ni bond to form a nickelmolybdenum alloy. After ten HMFOR, it can be seen on the Ni K-edge EXAFS, a shift of the Ni Ni distance to 3.04 Å, and the peak of the Ni O bond appears at 1.87 Å which is larger than the bond length of Ni O (1.63 Å). This suggests that the generation of Mo O Ni bond during HMFOR reduces the Ni Ni coordination and increases the Ni Ni distance length, and the Ni O bond in MoNi4/NF is elongated due to the electrondonating effect of Mo.[33] In addition, we also found that the Mo Ni distance increased from 2.09 Å to 2.21 Å after HMFOR in the Mo K-edge EXAFS spectra. The combination of XANES and EXAFS shows that there is an interaction between Ni and Mo, which leads to the elongation of Mo Ni distance.

We observed the presence of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species during the reaction in in-situ Raman spectra and the Ni2 <sup>δ</sup> species (with a valence between 0 and +2) after the HMFOR reaction in XANES spectra. Therefore, we believe that the Ni species in the MoNi4/ NF catalyst are oxidized to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> firstly by the applied voltage during the reaction, and once Ni3<sup>+</sup> is generated, it will be quickly reacted with HMF and is itself reduced to Ni<sup>2</sup> <sup>δ</sup> species. It is noteworthy that the nickel-based catalysts reported by previous researchers generally assumed that Ni species would be oxidized to Ni3<sup>+</sup> species to catalyze HMF oxidation, returning itself to the Ni2<sup>+</sup> species.[23,34,35] In contrast, we found for the first time in nickel-molybdenum-based catalysts that Ni3<sup>+</sup> species can be reduced to Ni<sup>2</sup> <sup>δ</sup> . The nickel species of MoNi4/NF with greater than one electron transfer (Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> \$Ni2 <sup>δ</sup> ) during HMFOR has the superior electro-catalytic activity for the HMFOR reaction.

## **3. Conclusions**

In summary, we report a bifunctional MoNi4/NF electro-catalyst applied for the electro-catalytic high-concentration HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR) and HER. MoNi4/NF can achieve near

complete conversion of 200 mM HMF, 98.7% FDCA yield and 97.3% FE while also producing pure H2. In-situ Raman confirmed Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> as the active species for its electro-catalytic HMFOR. XANES and EXAFS showed that after undergoing HMFOR, the nickel will be maintained in the Ni2 <sup>δ</sup> state due to the electron-donating effect of Mo. This nickel species with greater than one electron transfer during the HMFOR process has the ability to electrocatalyze the oxidation of HMF with higher efficiency. In addition, reduction treatment with H2 increases the conductivity of the Ni-based electrode and the number of active nickel sites. Moreover, MoNi4/NF also exhibited excellent electrocatalytic stability even at highconcentration HMF (200 mM). MoNi4/NF demonstrates the potential for industrial applications as a bifunctional catalyst coupling HMFOR with H2 production.

## *Author Contributions*

**Hao Liu**: conceptualization; methodology; data curation; writing-original draft; writing-review & editing. **Jie Xia**: graphic design. **Xiaohui Liu**: conceptualization; methodology; writingreview & editing; funding acquisition; supervision. **Yongfeng Hu**: synchrotron radiation technical support; writing – review & editing. **Mohsen Shakouri**: synchrotron radiation technical support; writing – review & editing. Haoran Wu: in-situ Raman technical support. **Minghui Zhu**: in-situ Raman technical support. **Yong Guo**: writing-review & editing; funding acquisition; supervision. **Jingye Chen**: synchrotron radiation technical support. **Ning Chen**: synchrotron radiation technical support. **Haifeng Wang**: conceptualization; methodology. **Yanqin Wang**: writing-review & editing; funding acquisition; supervision.

## *Acknowledgements*

The research was sponsored financially by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21872050, 22072042 and 21403065) and National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2022YFC3902500). X-ray absorption measurements were performed at SXRMB and HXMA beamlines of Canadian Light Source, a national research facility of the University of Saskatchewan, which is supported by the Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI), the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC), the National Research Council (NRC), Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR), Government of Saskatchewan, and the University of Saskatchewan.

## *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no competing financial interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** MoNi4/nickel foam **·** 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural **·** 2, 5- Furandicarboxylic acid **·** Electro-catalytic oxidation **·** Bifunctional electro-catalyst

- [1] A. R. Morais, A. M. da Costa Lopes, R. Bogel-Lukasik, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr500330z) Rev.* **2015**, *115*, 3–27, [http://doi.org/10.1021/cr500330z](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr500330z).
- [2] M. J. Climent, A. Corma, S. Iborra, *Green Chem.* **2011**, *13*, [520–524,](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0gc00639d) [http://doi.org/10.1039/c0gc00639d.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0gc00639d)
- [3] W. Martin, R. J. Brodd, *Chem. Rev.* **2004**, *104*, 4245–4269, [http://doi.org/](http://doi.org/10.1021/cr020730k) [10.1021/cr020730k.](http://doi.org/10.1021/cr020730k)
- [4] Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087)* **2011**, *10*, 780–786, [http://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3087)
- [5] S. Rajendran, R. Raghunathan, I. Hevus, R. Krishnan, A. Ugrinov, M. P. Sibi, D. C. Webster, J. Sivaguru, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408492) Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2015**, *54*, 1159–1163, [http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408492](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201408492).
- [6] J. J. Bozell, G. R. Petersen, *Green Chem.* **2010**, *12*, 539–554, [http://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1039/b922014c) [org/10.1039/b922014c.](https://doi.org/10.1039/b922014c)
- [7] R. J. van Putten, J. C. van der Waal, E. de Jong, C. B. Rasrendra, H. J. Heeres, J. G. de Vries, *Chem Rev* **2013**, *113*, 1499–1597, [http://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300182k) [1021/cr300182k.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr300182k)
- [8] M. Cai, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Li, G. Li, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA07793C) Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 20386–20392, [http://doi.org/10.1039/d0ta07793c](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA07793C).
- [9] R. Francke, R. D. Little, *Chem Soc Rev* **2014**, *43*, [2492–2521,](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cs60464k) http://doi. [org/10.1039/c3cs60464k](https://doi.org/10.1039/c3cs60464k).
- [10] D. A. Giannakoudakis, J. C. Colmenares, D. Tsiplakides, K. S. Triantafyllidis, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 1970–1993, [http://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c07480) [1021/acssuschemeng.0c07480](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c07480).
- [11] K. R. Vuyyuru, P. Strasser, *Catal. Today* **2012**, *195*, 144–154, [http://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2012.05.008) [org/10.1016/j.cattod.2012.05.008.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2012.05.008)
- [12] J. Wang, X. Zhang, G. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, *Chem. Commun. (Camb)* **2020**, *56*, 13611–13614, <http://doi.org/10.1039/d0cc06087a>.
- [13] D. J. Chadderdon, L. Xin, J. Qi, Y. Qiu, P. Krishna, K. L. More, W. Li, *[Green](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4GC00401A) Chem.* **2014**, *16*, 3778–3786, [http://doi.org/10.1039/c4gc00401a](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4GC00401A).
- [14] M. Park, M. Gu, B. S. Kim, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 6812–6822, [http://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c00581) [10.1021/acsnano.0c00581.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.0c00581)
- [15] G.-R. Xu, M. Batmunkh, S. Donne, H. Jin, J.-X. Jiang, Y. Chen, T. Ma, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA10267A) Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 25433–25440, [http://doi.org/10.1039/](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA10267A) [c9ta10267a.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA10267A)
- [16] Y. Zhao, M. Cai, J. Xian, Y. Sun, G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [20164–](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA04981J) 20183, [http://doi.org/10.1039/d1ta04981j.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA04981J)
- [17] B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [13639–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07127) 13646, [http://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07127](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07127).
- [18] B. You, N. Jiang, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201603798) Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2016**, *55*, 9913–9917, [http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201603798](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201603798).
- [19] P. Zhang, X. Sheng, X. Chen, Z. Fang, J. Jiang, M. Wang, F. Li, L. Fan, Y. Ren, B. Zhang, B. J. J. Timmer, M. S. G. Ahlquist, L. Sun, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201903936) Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2019**, *58*, 9155–9159, [http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201903936.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201903936)
- [20] R. Luo, Y. Li, L. Xing, N. Wang, R. Zhong, Z. Qian, C. Du, G. Yin, Y. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *311*, 121357, [http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121357) [2022.121357](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121357).
- [21] B. Zhu, C. Chen, L. Huai, Z. Zhou, L. Wang, J. Zhang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *297*, 120396, [http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120396.](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120396)
- [22] X. Song, X. Liu, H. Wang, Y. Guo, Y. Wang, *Ind. Eng. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01312) Res.* **2020**, *59*, 17348–17356, [http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01312](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.iecr.0c01312).
- [23] X. Xu, X. Song, X. Liu, H. Wang, Y. Hu, J. Xia, J. Chen, M. Shakouri, Y. Guo, Y. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, [5538–5547,](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c00121) http://doi. [org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c00121.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c00121)
- [24] J. Zhang, T. Wang, P. Liu, Z. Liao, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, M. Chen, E. Zschech, X. Feng, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15437, [http://doi.org/10.1038/](http://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms15437) [ncomms15437.](http://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms15437)
- [25] Y. Jin, X. Yue, C. Shu, S. Huang, P. K. Shen, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA10802D) Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 2508–2513, [http://doi.org/10.1039/c6ta10802d.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6TA10802D)
- [26] Y. Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, T. Tang, H. Luo, S. Niu, Z. H. Dai, L. J. Wan, J. S. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1703311, [http://doi.org/10.1002/](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201703311) [adma.201703311](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201703311).

1864564x, 2025, 5, Downloaded from https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/cssc.202401516 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [27] G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, C. Tian, A. Wu, Y. Wang, H. Fu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3125, [http://doi.org/10.1038/s41467–022–30495–1](http://doi.org/10.1038/s41467--022--30495--1).
- [28] X. Liu, J. Meng, K. Ni, R. Guo, F. Xia, J. Xie, X. Li, B. Wen, P. Wu, M. Li, J. Wu, X. Wu, L. Mai, D. Zhao, *Cell Rep. Phys. Sci.* **2020**, *1*, [http://doi.org/10.](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2020.100241) [1016/j.xcrp.2020.100241.](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.xcrp.2020.100241)
- [29] O. M. Popovych, I. M. Budzulyak, V. O. Yukhymchuk, S. I. Budzulyak, D. I. Popovych, *Fuller. Nanotubes Car. N.* **2021**, *29*, 1009–1015, [http://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1080/1536383X.2021.1925253) [10.1080/1536383x.2021.1925253.](https://doi.org/10.1080/1536383X.2021.1925253)
- [30] J. Wang, Q. Pan, Q. Liu, Y. He, T. Mann, R. Li, M. Zhang, L. Liu, *Solid [State](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solidstatesciences.2012.01.004) Sci.* **2012**, *14*, 562–566, [http://doi.org/10.1016/j.solidstatesciences.2012.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solidstatesciences.2012.01.004) [01.004](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solidstatesciences.2012.01.004).
- [31] T. Tong, W. Guo, X. Liu, Y. Guo, C.-W. Pao, J.-L. Chen, Y. Hu, Y. Wang, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.08.024) Catal.* **2019**, *378*, 392–401, [http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.08.024](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.08.024).
- [32] D. Lu1tzenkirchen-Hecht, R. Frahm, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2001**, *105*, 9988– 9993, <http://doi.org/10.1021/jp003414n>.

- [33] W. Liu, Y. Yang, L. Chen, E. Xu, J. Xu, S. Hong, X. Zhang, M. Wei, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *282*, 119569, [http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119569) [119569.](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119569)
- [34] N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.* **2019**, *58*, [15895–15903,](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908722) http:// [doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908722](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908722).
- [35] Y. Sun, J. Wang, Y. Qi, W. Li, C. Wang, *Adv Sci* **2022**, *9*, 2200957, [http://](http://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202200957) [doi.org/10.1002/advs.202200957](http://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202200957).

Manuscript received: July 11, 2024 Revised manuscript received: October 15, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: October 21, 2024 Version of record online: December 5, 2024