---
source: Liu 等 - 2023 - S‐Species‐Evoked High‐Valence Ni2+δ of the Evolved β‐Ni(OH)2 Electr.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 52.098s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:43:48.096642Z
---

# **S-Species-Evoked High-Valence Ni2+***<sup>δ</sup>* **of the Evolved** *β***-Ni(OH)2 Electrode for Selective Oxidation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural**

*Chaofan Liu, Xue-Rong Shi, Kaihang Yue, Peijie Wang, Ke Zhan, Xianying Wang,\* Bao Yu Xia,\* and Ya Yan\**

**An efficient NiS***x***-modified** *β***-Ni(OH)2 electrode is reported for the selective oxidation reaction of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMFOR) with excellent electrocatalytic 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) selectivity (99.4%), conversion (97.7%), and Faradaic efficiency (98.3%). The decoration of NiS***x* **will evoke high-valence Ni2**+*<sup>δ</sup>*  **species in the reconstructed** *β***-Ni(OH)2 electrode, which are the real active species for HMFOR. The generated NiS***x***/Ni(OH)O modulates the proton-coupled electron-transfer (PCET) process of HMFOR, where the electrocatalytically generated Ni(OH)O can effectively trap the protons from the CHO end in HMF to realize electron transfer. The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) competes with the HMFOR when NiS***x***/Ni(OH)O continues to accumulate, to generate the NiS***x***/NiO***x***(OH)***y* **intermediate. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations and experimental results verify that the adsorption energy of HMF can be optimized through the increased NiS***x* **composition for more efficient capture of protons and electrons in the HMFOR.**

**1. Introduction**

Green biomass energy conversion is a new direction for sustainable development. Recently, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) extracted from glucose or fructose, as a biomass-derived molecule,

C. Liu, K. Zhan School of Materials and Chemistry University of Shanghai for Science and Technology 516 Jungong Road, Shanghai 200093, China C. Liu, K. Yue, X. Wang, Y. Yan CAS Key Laboratory of Materials for Energy Conversion Shanghai Institute of Ceramics Chinese Academy of Sciences (SICCAS) 585 Heshuo Road, Shanghai 200050, China E-mail: wangxianying@mail.sic.ac.cn; yanya@mail.sic.ac.cn X.-R. Shi, P. Wang School of Material Engineering Shanghai University of Engineering Science 333 Longteng Road, Shanghai 201620, China B. Y. Xia School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Key Laboratory of Material Chemistry for Energy Conversion and Storage (Ministry of Education)

Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202211177.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202211177**

E-mail: byxia@hust.edu.cn

1037 Luoyu Road, Wuhan 430074, China

has attracted much attention industrially.[1] The main oxidation product, 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), as a crucial biobased alternative precursor with high added value, can replace some derivatives of petroleum to produce bioplastics with superior mechanical and thermal properties.[2] However, the traditional oxidation process from HMF to FDCA necessitates the employment of noble metal catalysts, challenging pressure (1–40 bar) and temperature (50– 160 °C), which will inevitably lead to energy loss and run counter to green chemical production.[3] Electrochemical conversion is recognized as a green, environmentally friendly, and efficient method compared to the conventional industrial conversion of HMF. Electrochemical oxidation reaction of HMF (HMFOR) can not only yield highvalue oxidation products at the anode but

can also substitute for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and couple with the cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) for highly efficient hydrogen production.[4]

Nickel-based catalysts have widely been studied for electrocatalytic biomass oxidation. Previous studies have shown that Ni(OH)2 intermediates can indirectly oxidize biomass through proton-coupled electron-transfer (PCET) processes.[5] During these processes, the preferential evolution of Ni(OH)O on these Ni(OH)2 catalysts is essential for the nucleophilic oxidation of HMF. However, with increasing applied voltage, the constantly accumulated Ni(OH)O species are eventually transformed to NiO*x*(OH)*y*, which is more active for catalyzing the OER.[5a,6] How to modulate the surface structure of Ni-based catalysts to promote the formation of favorable Ni(OH)O sites under low voltage is still a knotty problem for HMFOR. Previously, Fu and co-workers designed cobalt hydroxide@hydroxysulfide nanosheets for the electro-oxidation of methyl alcohol, and they found that replacing OH− in hydroxides with S can regulate the electronic structure and optimize the adsorption of methyl alcohol.[7] A recent study reported that the S evolution to SO4 2− in the NiMo3S4 structure during the electrochemical process can effectively prevent the deep oxidation of the surface and thus increase the reaction kinetics of HMFOR.[8] Nevertheless, the influence of different S doping on the behavior of surface reconstruction, HMF adsorption, and oxidation mechanism of these Ni-based catalysts is still rarely reported and lacks deep and systematic study.

www.advmat.de

3214095, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://advanced.on.inelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.20221117 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (0501/2026), See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons.

To address the abovementioned concerns, in this work, we synthesized efficient NiS<sub>x</sub>-decorated  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (NiS<sub>x</sub>/ $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>) nanocomposites as a demo catalyst to elucidate the oxidation mechanism of S modification on  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalysts for HMFOR. Owing to the optimized electron structure modulation and rapid charge-transfer ability between NiSx and β-Ni(OH)2, the potential of HMFOR decreases by 302 mV to reach a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> compared with the OER process. Subsequently, the ex/in situ electrochemical characterizations confirm that the real catalytic active species are the high-valence Ni<sup>2+ $\delta$ </sup>. Importantly, with the S modification, the electrocatalytically generated Ni(OH)O can effectively trap the protons from the CHO- in HMF to realize electron transfer and thus facilitate the PCET process during HMFOR. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further verify this result. Specifically, the different coordinated NiS<sub>x</sub> structures on  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> display different degrees of ability for the adsorption of HMF and OH-, which provides a competent guide to design Ni-based catalysts and the understanding of the HMFOR mechanism on these catalysts.

### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of the Samples

The synthesis procedure of nickel-foam-supported NiS<sub>x</sub>/β- $Ni(OH)_2$  ( $NiS_x/\beta$ - $Ni(OH)_2/Ni$ ) is illustrated in Figure S1 (Supporting Information). First, the precursor of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni (hp-Ni) composed of thin nanosheets is electrodeposited on the foamed nickel substrate under a DC power supply in the presence of NiCl<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and NH<sub>4</sub>Cl (Figure S2a,b, Supporting Information). Due to the presence of NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>, the reaction process is often accompanied by the generation of OH<sup>-</sup> and thus facilitates the formation of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. Then, the obtained hp-Ni is impregnated in a mixed solution of NaOH and (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>O<sub>8</sub>, and the surface of Ni(OH)2 is oxidized into NiOOH with a rough surface (Figure S2c,d, Supporting Information). The as-prepared  $NiOOH/\beta-Ni(OH)_2/Ni$  hybrid is thereafter impregnated in a solution of Na<sub>2</sub>S. According to the solubility equilibrium, the  $K_{\rm sp}$  of hydroxide (1.1 × 10<sup>-15</sup>) is much higher than that of sulfide  $(4.0 \times 10^{-21})$ , so OH<sup>-</sup> could be easily replaced by S atoms transforming to the  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni composite.<sup>[7]</sup> The optimized  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni hybrid is obtained under sulfidation over 5 h (Figure S7c-f, Supporting Information). The atomic ratios of  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni at different times were tested by the energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) (Table S1, Supporting Information). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images show that  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni maintains the microsphere structure with numerous interconnected lamellae (Figure 1a,b). A typical high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image accompanied by EDS analysis demonstrates the existence and uniform distribution of Ni, O, and S (Figure 1c-f; Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information).

X-ray diffraction (XRD) characterization indicates that except for the strong peaks for Ni, no obvious other diffraction peak is observed in all three samples (Figure 1g). To eliminate the peak intensity of the foamed nickel, carbon cloth is received as a substrate to prepare the sample. The XRD results show that strong Ni peaks still exist for all samples, while the missed peaks for NiOOH after the oxidation process may be due to the low crystalline nature of the as-formed NiOOH (Figure 1h; Figure S5, Supporting Information). After sulfidation treatment, the diffraction peak of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> can be obviously observed from the XRD pattern of  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni, suggesting the successful modification of S. The structure and composition of the samples were further determined by Raman spectroscopy (Figure 1i). NiOOH/ $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni displays obvious Raman peaks at 471 and 553 cm<sup>-1</sup>, corresponding to NiOOH.<sup>[9]</sup> For  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni, the characteristic peak at 200–400 cm<sup>-1</sup> corresponds to the vibration mode of the Ni-S bond [10] while the Raman peaks at 452, 610, 980, and 1078 cm<sup>-1</sup> represent a defective  $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> species.<sup>[11]</sup> All these observations indicate that the strong oxidation and sulfidation modification process only acts on the surface of the electrodeposited Ni core and the successful formation of NiS<sub>x</sub>/ $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni.

The chemical composition and surface electronic states of the samples were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The survey spectra further verify the successful doping of S and coexistence of Ni, O, and S on the surface of  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni (Figure S6, Supporting Information). After the sulfidation treatment, the S 1s spectrum displays characteristic peaks of S 2p<sub>1/2</sub> and 2p<sub>3/2</sub> at binding energies of 163.5 and 162.3 eV, respectively, which can be assigned to the S atoms bonded to Ni (Figure 1j).[12] Another wide peak at 168.4 eV may be due to the formation of  $SO_4^{2-}$  species under the strong oxidation environment. The Ni 2p spectra of NiS<sub>x</sub>/ $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/ Ni (Figure 1k) consist of two spin-orbit doublets characteristic of Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> and two shakeup satellites. Correspondingly, a 0.3 eV shift of the Ni 2p peak of  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni toward higher binding energy is observed, further revealing that the modified S could adjust the electronic structure of Ni and thus optimize the adsorption energy of intermediates on the Nibased electrode (Figure 1k).[12a,14] By comparing the O 1s spectra of the samples (Figure 1l), apart from the peaks at 530.9 and 531.5 eV for the metal-oxygen bond and oxygen-hydrogen bond, respectively, [15] the missed peak for Ni-O-Ni further suggests that the original lattice is distorted due to the doped S, [13a] thus resulting in the decreased crystallinity for  $NiS_x/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Overall, the XPS results show the effective S substitution of OH- and the formation of NiS<sub>x</sub>/ $\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni with a rich S surface composition and optimized electron structure of Ni.

### 2.2. Electrocatalytic Performance for HMFOR

In light of the structural features of the  $\mathrm{NiS}_x/\beta\mathrm{-Ni}(\mathrm{OH})_2/\mathrm{Ni}$  hybrid, its electrochemical property toward HMFOR is evaluated by using a typical three-electrode system. As shown from the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in **Figure 2**a, aside from a wide peak at 1.40 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) arising from the oxidation of Ni species, a negligible anodic current is observed below the potential of 1.40 V vs RHE in 1.0 m KOH. After the addition of HMF (50 mm), the  $\mathrm{NiS}_x/\beta\mathrm{-Ni}(\mathrm{OH})_2/\mathrm{Ni}$  electrode displays an obvious current response within the potential window, indicating that the

**Figure 1.** a,b) SEM images of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni. c) HAADF-STEM image and d–f) the corresponding elemental mapping images of Ni, O, and S elements in NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni. g,h) XRD patterns of different samples on nickel foam (g) and carbon cloth (h). i) Raman spectra of NiOOH/*β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni, *β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni, and NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni. j–l) High-resolution XPS spectra of S 2p, Ni 2p, and O 1s for NiOOH/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni and NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni.

NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni catalyst is sensitive to HMFOR (Figure S7a, Supporting Information). Significantly, the onset potential is greatly reduced, indicating the competitive edge of the HMFOR over the OER on the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni catalyst. Further study shows that the oxidation current density of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni is proportional to the concentration of HMF under a constant OH− concentration (Figure S7b, Supporting Information). To better observe the difference, the following electrochemical tests for HMFOR are all performed under 50 mm HMF containing 1.0 m KOH, and *β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni, NiOOH/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni, and hp-Ni were also prepared and investigated for comparison. As seen from Figure 2b, the S-modified NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni displays the best HMFOR activity with the lowest onset potential and the highest oxidation current density. It also yields a much smaller Tafel slope (124 mV dec−<sup>1</sup> ), suggesting relatively fast HMFOR kinetics for the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrode (Figure 2c). Additionally, the electrochemical surface area was compared by measuring the double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) via cycle voltammetry (Figure S8a–h, Supporting Information). In 1.0 m KOH, the *C*dl of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni is only 11.2 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S8i, Supporting Information). After adding 50 mm HMF, NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni has the largest *C*dl value of 34.2 mF cm−<sup>2</sup> (Figure 2d), revealing a good catalytic response to HMF as well as a high electrochemical surface area. Subsequently, the open-circuit potential (OCP) reflecting the absorber change in the Helmholtz layer was recorded to evaluate the adsorption behavior of HMF on the catalyst (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The OCP of the electrochemical cell at the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrode (0.65 V) was significantly reduced when 50 mm HMF was injected, indicating stronger surface adsorption of HMF on NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni. Moreover, the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrode also exhibits good HER activity

**Figure 2.** a) Polarization curves of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni in 1.0 m KOH with and without 50 mm HMF. b) Polarization curves and c) Tafel slopes of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni and reference samples for HMFOR in 1.0 m KOH with 50 mm HMF. d) Capacitive currents of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni and reference samples in 1.0 m KOH with 50 mm HMF. e) Cathodic polarization curves of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni in 1.0 m KOH with and without HMF. f) Polarization curves of the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni assembled flow cell in 1.0 m KOH with and without 50 mm HMF.

with an overpotential of 33 mV to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and there are no observable changes in the HER polarization curves after adding HMF (Figure 2e). Meanwhile, an almost 100% Faraday efficiency (FE) for H2 production was observed (Figure S10, Supporting Information). Subsequently, an alkaline electrolytic flow cell with NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni as both the cathode and the anode is constructed to evaluate the performance of the materials in such a hybrid cell. As observed from Figure 2f, the flow cell needs an input voltage as high as 1.68 V to reach 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> . In contrast, after the addition of 50 mm HMF, this voltage is significantly reduced to 1.24 V, which indicates that the OER process is successfully replaced by the HMFOR process, resulting in the production of valuable chemicals and reduced energy consumption. These results suggest that the obtained NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni has superior catalytic activity for HMF due to the positive effect of S doping. Thereafter, the SEM performed on the samples after the HMF oxidation reaction reveals that the morphology of the catalyst does not display obvious changes (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The bulk composition obtained from XRD shows that the diffraction peaks of the Ni3S2 species are still maintained but weakened, which may be due to the loss of S species (Figure S12, Supporting Information). This is consistent with the XPS characterization, where the Ni 2p and O 1s spectra in NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni remain the same as the initial state, while the S 1s spectrum shows a significant decrease in content (Figure S13, Supporting Information), which is also in good agreement with the EDS results (Figure S14, Supporting

Information). Therefore, it can be concluded that NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni maintains the original surface environment after HMFOR, thus maintaining the HMFOR catalytic activity.

#### **2.3. Reaction Path for HMFOR**

To investigate the oxidation path of HMF on the surface of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni, the electrode was tested at a voltage of 1.413 V vs RHE in 10 mL 1.0 m KOH with 10 mm HMF, then the HMF oxidation intermediates and final product during electrolysis were detected by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The response time of different oxidation products of HMF in HPLC is shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information) for reference. Generally, there are two pathways for the oxidation of HMF (**Figure 3**a).[15a,16] In path 1, dehydrogenation sites combined with the H on the aldehyde functional group *α*-C of HMF. The *α*-C desorbs H and then reabsorbs OH− in the solution, finally resulting in the formation of carboxyl functional groups. In path 2, dehydrogenation sites combined with the H on the hydroxyl group and *α*-C connected to the hydroxyl group and finally dehydrated to form an aldehyde group. The two pathways form 2-formyl-5-furanediformic acid (FFCA) before FDCA and eventually form FDCA.[17] As shown in Figure 3b, with the accumulation of charger transfer, the content of HMF gradually decreases while the content of the final product FDCA gradually increases, and the intermediates of HMFCA and

**Figure 3.** a) Two possible pathways of HMF oxidation to FDCA. b) HPLC traces of HMF electro-oxidation catalyzed by NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni at 1.413 V vs RHE in 10 mL 1.0 m KOH with 10 mm HMF. c) Conversion changes of HMF during the HMFOR process. d) The HMFOR of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni under five successive cycles.

FFCA are eventually consumed with negligible 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF) content. This result is also evidenced by the color change of the anodic electrolyte from dark brown to light yellow (Figure S16f, Supporting Information). When the transfer charge reaches 58 C, which is the theoretical charge number for the complete conversion of HMF to FDCA, the HPLC trace of HMF almost disappears, but the HPLC trace of FDCA is maximized. These results indicate that the oxidation of HMF on the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrode proceeded via path 1: HMF → HMFCA → FFCA → FDCA. Moreover, the conversion of HMF and selectivity of DFF, HMFCA, FFCA, and FDCA are quantified. As shown in Figure 3c, NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni displays a superior catalytic performance for HMFOR, in good agreement with the observed LSV curves in Figure 2a. The calculated HMF conversion rate, FDCA selectivity, and FE for NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni are 99.4%, 97.7%, and 98.3%, respectively (see the "Experimental Section" in the Supporting Information for details). Furthermore, the stability test of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni for HMFOR is conducted by applying a constant potential of 1.413 V vs RHE in a 10 mL electrolyte containing 1.0 m KOH and 10 mm HMF (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Another 10 mm of HMF is subsequently added to the electrolytic cell when the previously added HMF is converted. As observed, the current density over five successive cycles remains almost unchanged. Correspondingly, the HMF conversion (98.8– 99.3%), selectivity (97–98.5%), and FE (96–98.5%) for FDCA all fluctuate in narrow ranges (Figure 3d). In addition, NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni also outperformed most of the reported Ni-based

HMF catalysts (Table S2, Supporting Information), suggesting the promising application of the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrode for practical HMF oxidation.

#### **2.4. Oxidation Mechanism and DFT Calculations**

To further reveal the oxidation mechanism of the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni catalyst for HMF, the relationship between reaction kinetics and electron transfer is first explored by in situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The equivalent circuit and the resistance of each component are shown in Figure S18 (Supporting Information). After fitting the test results (**Figure 4**a), it can be found that the phase angle of the interface corresponding to the Bode plot decreases with increasing potential in the interval of 1.25–1.40 V vs RHE, indicating an enhanced reaction rate. When the potential rises to 1.40–1.45 V vs RHE, the phase angle starts to increase with increasing potential, which corresponds to a significant decrease in current density in the interval corresponding to the LSV curve, implying passivation of the catalyst surface. With a further increase in the potential, the change in the phase angle suggests that the electrode oxidation of the catalyst dominates and that the OER response gradually occurs. This observation is in good agreement with the Bode and Nyquist plots of the HMFOR and OER, where no changes at high potentials (>1.6 V vs RHE) are discovered (Figure 4b; Figure S19, Supporting Information). The best-fit parameters for the EIS data are

**Figure 4.** a) Bode plots of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni for HMFOR (1.0 m KOH with 50 mm HMF) and b) OER (1.0 m KOH). c) Density of states on NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni systems. d–f) In situ Raman spectra of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni for the HMFOR (d), OER (e), and OER combined HMFOR (f) processes.

shown in Tables S3 and S4 (Supporting Information). The *R*<sup>p</sup> and *R*ct values correspond to Bode and Nyquist plots, indicating a higher charge-transfer rate and simultaneous processes of HMFOR than OER. Additionally, the catalysts of *β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni and NiOOH/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni gave similar results (Figure S20 and Tables S5–S8, Supporting Information). These EIS results indicate that HMFOR occurs more rapidly than the oxidation process. The modification of NiS*x* is expected to accelerate the charge-transfer rate in the HMFOR process. To uncover the much higher charge-transfer rate of HMFOR relative to OER for NiS*x*-modified *β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni, density of states (DOS) analysis is subsequently conducted to discuss the effect of different degrees of NiS*x* modification on the electro-oxidation behaviors of *β*-Ni(OH)2 for HMF. The dehydrogenation structure of *β*-Ni(OH)2 is regulated by different degrees of Ni3S2. Calculations found that the decoration of Ni3S2 at the Ni(OH)O surface shifted the whole DOS curve to lower energy (Figure 4c). Different from the semiconductor nature of the *β*-Ni(OH)2-(001) surface with an apparent bandgap, the Ni3S2-modified Ni(OH) O-(001) surface displays states just below and up the Fermi level and presents a much narrower bandgap, revealing the improved electronic conductivity of the Ni3S2-decorated Ni(OH)O. The projected DOS proves the contribution from the p orbitals of S near the Fermi level. With different degrees of NiS*x* modulation, the NiS*x*/Ni(OH)O composite shows increased states near the Fermi level, which favors rapid electron transfer in electrocatalysis, matching well with the EIS results.

In situ Raman spectroscopy is further used to investigate the surface construction evolution of the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrocatalyst during the HMFOR and OER processes. For the OER process (Figure 4e), when the voltage exceeded 1.35 V vs RHE, two peaks at 474 and 553 cm−<sup>1</sup> appeared in the Raman spectra, corresponding to the vibration peaks between NiO,[9b,18] which also indicated the generation of a series of species in NiS*x*/NiO*x*(OH)*y*. In contrast, when the applied voltage reached 1.40 V vs RHE during the HMFOR process, NiO was not generated significantly (Figure 4d). This indicates that there is a dynamic conversion between NiS*x*/Ni(OH) O and HMF. However, the peak of NiO gradually becomes stronger until the applied voltage increases to 1.45 V vs RHE, indicating that the existence of HMF could suppress the formation of NiS*x*/NiO*x*(OH)*y* species. These results are consistent with the EIS and LSV curves. Previous studies have shown that Ni2+*<sup>δ</sup>* has a high electro-oxidation ability for alcohol–aldehyde biomass.[6,19] Electrochemically generated high-valence metal (oxygen) hydroxides can spontaneously oxidize organic molecules with no requirement for voltage input (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Once Ni2+*<sup>δ</sup>* is generated at a certain voltage, the subsequent HMFOR process occurs spontaneously.[20] Subsequently, we investigated the role of the NiS*x*/ NiO*x*(OH)*y* intermediate during HMFOR. An electrolysis process is first conducted without the addition of HMF for 40 s (the OER occurs) and then with the presence of 10 mm HMF for 40 s by keeping a constant voltage of 1.45 V vs RHE (the HMFOR occurs) (Figure 4f). During the first 40 s of the OER process, the characteristic peak of NiO gradually appeared, suggesting the formation of NiS*x*/NiO*x*(OH)*y*. With the addition of HMF to the cell, the characteristic peaks of NiO decreased

**Figure 5.** a) The energy profiles for NiOH dehydrogenation at the Ni(OH)2 and S-doped Ni(OH)2 electrodes. b) Side views of HMF adsorption configurations on various models and corresponding adsorption energy. The H-bond length (in Å) is labeled. The Ni, O, H, S, and C atoms are marked in blue, red, white, yellow, and black colors, respectively.

over time, suggesting that there is a dynamic transition of NiS*x*/ NiO*x*(OH)*y* during HMF oxidation. Subsequently, we compared the XPS of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni before and after the OER processes, indicating that the OER process has NiO*x*(OH)*y* species evolution, which is also consistent with the above experimental results (Figure S22, Supporting Information). In fact, the evolution of Ni2+*<sup>δ</sup>* species dominates the entire process of HMFOR, and a series of Ni2+*<sup>δ</sup>* species are also proven to be the real source of HMFOR reactivity. Based on the above discussion, it can be concluded that the species of Ni2+*<sup>δ</sup>* are very important to the HMFOR process. Under a voltage below the oxidation current (HMFOR), the active NiS*x*/Ni(OH)O intermediate is generated, and the PCET process occurs. During this process, the electrocatalytically generated Ni(OH)O can effectively trap the protons from the CHO in HMF to realize electron transfer.[5a,21] When NiS*x*/Ni(OH)O continues to accumulate until NiS*x*/NiO*x*(OH)*<sup>y</sup>* is generated, the OER reaction also gradually occurs, and the OER and HMFOR compete and cooperate with each other.

To further understand the effects of S modification on the outstanding HMFOR catalytic activities of NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/ Ni, DFT calculations are conducted based on the above-discussed structure and HMF electrochemical analysis. First, we studied the kinetics of dehydrogenation of NiOH. As shown in **Figure 5**a, under the coordination conditions of SNiOH, Ni3S2OHNi, and Ni6S4OHNi, the dehydrogenation free energies of the three are 4.38, 3.73, and 2.52 eV, respectively, while that of *β*-Ni(OH)2 is 4.64 eV. This result indicates that the introduction of NiS*x* can significantly promote the kinetics of dehydrogenation. Namely, the formation of Ni3S2 facilitated the transformation of *β*-Ni(OH)2 to the actual catalyzing phase Ni(OH)O. As a key step of HMFOR, the adsorption of HMF on the surface of the catalyst is very important for its spontaneous reaction with the intermediate Ni(OH)O. As revealed by the simulation results in Figure 5b and Figures S23 and S24 (Supporting Information), NiS*x* can change the adsorption behavior of HMF, and doped S favors HMF adsorption. As noted, single atomic S doping (e.g., SNiOH) only slightly alters the adsorption ability, while the formation of Ni3S2 groups at the surface strongly favors HMF adsorption. Particularly, at Ni6S4/ Ni(OH)O, the surface dehydrogenated O site and the coordinatively unsaturated Ni in Ni6S4 act as dual adsorption centers for HMF, in which the former is to accommodate the dissociated adsorption of the OH− end of HMF and the latter is to bond to the CHO end of HMF. It yields the most sN HMF adsorption with an *E*ads of −1.66 eV. The two-end adsorption configuration also provides the possibility of activating the OH or CHO functional group to produce DFF or HMFCA intermediates. Compared with that on NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2, HMF adsorption on the dehydrogenated structure NiS*x*/Ni(OH)O is more favorable, indicating that the dehydrogenated phase may be the actual catalyzing center. This is in line with the experimental results.

# **3. Conclusion**

A NiS*x*-modified Ni electrode, NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni, is designed to explore the effect of S species-induced surface reconstruction on the enhanced HMFOR of Ni electrodes. The oxidation path of HMF on the NiS*x*/*β*-Ni(OH)2/Ni electrode is confirmed to proceed via HMF → HMFCA → FFCA → FDCA. The in situ Raman spectroscopy and EIS analysis reveal that the doped NiS*x* optimizes the adsorption energy of *β*-Ni(OH)2 for HMF by tuning its electronic structure, and the evolved highvalence species of Ni2+*<sup>δ</sup>* are the real active species for HMFOR. Importantly, the PECT process occurs when NiS*x*/Ni(OH)O is generated, where the electrocatalytically generated Ni(OH) O can effectively trap the protons from the CHO in HMF to realize electron transfer. As NiS*x*/Ni(OH)O continues to accumulate to form NiS*x*/NiO*x*(OH)*y*, the OER also gradually occurs, which competes and cooperates with the HMFOR. The

DFT calculations further verify the significant role of the NiS*<sup>x</sup>* group in promoting the electron-transfer rate and accelerating the formation of the Ni(OH)O dehydrogenation intermediate, and the increased S doping on Ni(OH)O (Ni6S4/Ni(OH)O) will offer dual-ended adsorption sites for HMF due to the more exposed dehydrogenated O site. Therefore, this work not only provides a profound and comprehensive mechanism for the electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF but also combines biomass oxidation with the hydrogen evolution reaction to realize sustainable hydrogen generation along with valuable biomass production. Thus, the present work has great potential to stimulate thinking about multidisciplinary integration between nanomaterials and energy technology conversions.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

C.L. and X.-R.S. contributed equally to this work. This project was funded by financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 22279159), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (Grant No. 2021YFA1600800), Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai (Grant No. 22ZR1471900), and Shanghai Rising-Star Program (Program No. 22QA1410300). The authors also acknowledge the financial support by the Shanghai Municipal Science and Technology Commission of Carbon Peak & Carbon Neutrality Project (Project No. 21DZ1207900).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation, electrocatalysts, high-valence Ni, proton-coupled electron transfer, reconstruction

> Received: November 30, 2022 Revised: January 2, 2023 Published online: February 12, 2023

- [1] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998; b) Y. Lu, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Y. Zou, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. Li, N. He, J. Shi, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 19215.
- [2] a) B. J. Taitt, D. H. Nam, K. S. Choi, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 660; b) Y. A. Xie, Z. Y. Zhou, N. J. Yang, G. H. Zhao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102886.

- [3] a) C. Wang, Y. Wu, A. Bodach, M. L. Krebs, W. Schuhmann, F. Schuth, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *62*, e202215804; b) S. Li, X. Sun, Z. Yao, X. Zhong, Y. Cao, Y. Liang, Z. Wei, S. Deng, G. Zhuang, X. Li, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1904780.
- [4] a) Y. Yan, J. Y. Zhang, X. R. Shi, Y. Zhu, C. Xia, S. Zaman, X. Hu, X. Wang, B. Y. Xia, *ACS Nano* **2021**, *15*, 10286; b) H. Niu, C. Xia, L. Huang, S. Zaman, T. Maiyalagan, W. Guo, B. You, B. Y. Xia, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, 1459; c) W. Guan, Y. L. Zhang, Y. N. Wei, B. Li, Y. H. Feng, C. H. Yan, P. W. Huo, Y. S. Yan, *Fuel* **2020**, *278*, 118362.
- [5] a) W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Z. H. Xiao, Z. X. Wei, S. Q. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. M. Ma, S. Y. Wang, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 2974; b) Y. Sun, H. Shin, F. Wang, B. Tian, C. W. Chiang, S. Liu, X. Li, Y. Wang, L. Tang, W. A. Goddard 3rd, M. Ding, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 15185.
- [6] M. T. Bender, Y. C. Lam, S. Hammes-Schiffer, K. S. Choi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 21538.
- [7] K. Xiang, D. Wu, X. H. Deng, M. Li, S. Y. Chen, P. P. Hao, X. F. Guo, J. L. Luo, X. Z. Fu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1909610.
- [8] T. Wu, Z. Xu, X. Wang, M. Luo, Y. Xia, X. Zhang, J. Li, J. Liu, J. Wang, H.-L. Wang, F. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *323*, 122126.
- [9] a) Z. Cai, P. Wang, J. Zhang, A. Chen, J. Zhang, Y. Yan, X. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110696; b) H. Chen, Y. Zhou, W. Guo, B. Y. Xia, *Chin. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *33*, 1831; c) J. Wang, L. Ji, S. Zuo, Z. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1700107.
- [10] a) Y. Sun, J. Wu, Z. Zhang, Q. L. Liao, S. C. Zhang, X. Wang, Y. Xie, K. K. Ma, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 633; b) B. Q. Li, S. Y. Zhang, C. Tang, X. Cui, Q. Zhang, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1700610.
- [11] a) B. Shruthi, B. J. Madhu, V. B. Raju, S. Vynatheya, B. V. Devi, G. V. Jayashree, C. R. Ravikumar, *J. Sci.: Adv. Mater. Devices* **2017**, *2*, 93; b) C. Liu, Y. Li, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2009**, *478*, 415; c) D. S. Hall, D. J. Lockwood, S. Poirier, C. Bock, B. R. MacDougall, *J. Phys. Chem. A* **2012**, *116*, 6771.
- [12] a) W. Song, M. Xu, X. Teng, Y. Niu, S. Gong, X. Liu, X. He, Z. Chen, *Nanoscale* **2021**, *13*, 1680; b) D. Cao, D. Liu, S. Chen, O. A. Moses, X. Chen, W. Xu, C. Wu, L. Zheng, S. Chu, H. Jiang, C. Wang, B. Ge, X. Wu, J. Zhang, L. Song, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 906; c) Q. Cui, Z. Luo, Q. Cui, W. Zhu, H. Shou, C. Wu, Z. Liu, Y. Lin, P. Zhang, S. Wei, H. Yang, S. Chen, A. Pan, L. Song, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2105339.
- [13] a) K. Hu, G. Lv, J. Zhang, X. Guo, Z. Wu, W. Xiang, X. Lan, K. Zhou, P. Xu, L. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 42660; b) Z. Sun, L. Xu, C. Dong, H. Zhang, M. Zhang, Y. Ma, Y. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Zhou, Y. Han, Y. Chen, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *63*, 103887.
- [14] a) H. Yang, L. Q. Gong, H. M. Wang, C. L. Dong, J. L. Wang, K. Qi, H. F. Liu, X. P. Guo, B. Y. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5075; b) F. M. Li, L. Huang, S. Zaman, W. Guo, H. Liu, X. Guo, B. Y. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200840; c) Q. He, D. Tian, H. Jiang, D. Cao, S. Wei, D. Liu, P. Song, Y. Lin, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1906972.
- [15] a) G. C. Yang, Y. Q. Jiao, H. J. Yan, Y. Xie, A. P. Wu, X. Dong, D. Z. Guo, C. G. Tian, H. G. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455; b) M. Hou, S. Gong, L. Ji, J. Huang, M. Xu, Z. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *419*, 129575.
- [16] a) Y. X. Lu, T. Y. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Y. F. Li, J. Chen, Y. Q. Zou, S. Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007056; b) Y. X. Lu, T. Y. Liu, Y. C. Huang, L. Zhou, Y. Y. Li, W. Chen, L. Yang, B. Zhou, Y. D. Wu, Z. J. Kong, Z. F. Huang, Y. F. Li, C. L. Dong, S. Y. Wang, Y. Q. Zou, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 4242.
- [17] a) X. L. Pang, H. Y. Bai, H. Q. Zhao, W. Q. Fan, W. D. Shi, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1545; b) B. Zhou, Y. Y. Li, Y. Q. Zou, W. Chen, W. Zhou,

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

15214095, 2023, 12, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202211177 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- M. L. Song, Y. J. Wu, Y. X. Lu, J. L. Liu, Y. Y. Wang, S. Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22908.
- [18] K. H. Yue, J. L. Liu, Y. T. Zhu, C. F. Xia, P. Wang, J. W. Zhang, Y. Kong, X. Y. Wang, Y. Yan, B. Y. Xia, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 6546.
- [19] R. P. Luo, Y. Y. Li, L. X. Xing, R. Y. Zhong, Z. Y. Qian, G. P. Yin, Y. C. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *311*, 121357.
- [20] a) L. Gao, Z. Liu, J. Ma, L. Zhong, Z. Song, J. Xu, S. Gan, D. Han, L. Niu, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *261*, 118235; b) Y. Sun, J. Wang, Y. F. Qi, W. J. Li, C. Wang, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2200957.
- [21] S. Barwe, J. Weidner, S. Cychy, D. M. Morales, S. Dieckhofer, D. Hiltrop, J. Masa, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 11460.