---
source: Lu 等 - 2025 - Heteroarchitectural Gas Diffusion Layer Promotes CO2 Reduction Coupled with Biomass Oxida.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.914s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:49:26.288356Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

*CO2 Electrolyzers*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202423263 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202423263](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202423263)

# **Heteroarchitectural Gas Diffusion Layer Promotes CO2 Reduction Coupled with Biomass Oxidation at Ampere-Level Current Density**

*Chenbao Lu, Pengfei Shi, Senhe Huang, Chongqing Yang, Jinhui Zhu, Jichao Zhang, Changchun Ke, Yuezeng Su, Xiaodong Zhuang, and [Tianfu](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0026-5458) Wang\**

**Abstract:** Achieving high product selectivity at ampere-level current densities is essential for the industrial application of electrochemical CO2 reduction. However, the operational stability of CO2 electrolyzers at large current density has long been hindered by flooding of gas diffusion layer (GDL). Herein, a new heteroarchitectural GDL is designed to overcome flooding. Such GDL is constructed by sequentially sputtering the conductive silver and titanium boride (TiB2) onto a polytetrafluoroethylene substrate. Assembled with Cu catalyst in a flow cell, a maximum ethylene Faradaic efficiency of 64.7% was achieved at a current density of 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> in 6 M KOH. Furthermore, the GDL is capable of stable operation for over 40 hours at 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Theoretical calculations and in situ experiments demonstrate enhanced intermediates adsorption on the TiB2-supported Cu surface, thereby reducing the energy barrier for C C coupling. When coupling the CO2 reduction reaction with 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction, Faradaic efficiencies of 49.2% for ethylene and 85.4% for 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid were achieved at 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> . This work provides a highly stable GDL for efficient CO2 conversion at ampere-level current density and paves the way for integrating biomolecules conversion in stack-level devices.

#### *Introduction*

Electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) has attracted significant attention for its potential to convert CO2 into value-added chemical products using renewable green electricity.[1] In previous studies, most researchers are dedicated to developing catalysts, resulting in the creation of various catalysts with high selectivity for different products.[2] However, beyond selectivity, current density is another crucial metric for evaluating the industrial viability of electrochemical CO2 conversion technologies.[3] To achieve industrial current density, the use of advanced electrolyzer system is particularly vital. Due to the low diffusivity of CO2 in aqueous electrolytes, the current density produced in an H-cell is generally below 100 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . In contrast, membrane electrode assembly and flow cells allow CO2 to be delivered directly to catalyst surface via gas diffusion layers (GDLs), enabling current densities to reach several hundred or even ampere-level values.[4] However, electrolyte flooding and carbonate precipitation in GDLs under high negative potentials severely hinder their stable operation at large current density.

Carbon fiber (CF)-supported GDLs are commercially available and are the most commonly used GDLs due to their high conductivity and suitability for all types of catalysts (Figure 1a). CF-supported GDLs typically consist of a microporous layer (MPL) and a hydrophobic carbon fiber substrate (CFS). The MPL is usually composed of hydrophobic polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) nanoparticles and conductive carbon black, which plays a crucial role in preventing electrolyte flooding.[5] Despite the widespread use of carbon-based GDLs in CO2 electrolyzers, their

[\*] Dr. C. Lu, Prof. T. Wang

School of Environmental Science and Engineering Shanghai Jiao Tong University 800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China) E-mail: tfwang@sjtu.edu.cn

Dr. C. Lu, P. Shi, S. Huang, Dr. J. Zhu, Prof. X. Zhuang The Soft2D Lab, State Key Laboratory of Metal Matrix Composites, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Electrical Insulation and Thermal Ageing, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Shanghai Jiao Tong University

800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China) Dr. C. Lu, Prof. X. Zhuang Frontiers Science Center for Transformative Molecules, Zhangjiang Institute for Advanced Study, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 429 Zhangheng Road, Shanghai 201203 (China)

Prof. C. Yang College of Smart Energy Shanghai Jiao Tong University 665 Jianchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China) Prof. C. Ke School of Mechanical Engineering Shanghai Jiao Tong University 800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China) P. Shi, Prof. Y. Su School of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering

Shanghai Jiao Tong University

800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China) Dr. J. Zhang Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Shanghai Advanced Research Institute Chinese Academy of Sciences 239 Zhangheng Road, Shanghai 201204 (China)

hydrophobicity is known to decrease during operation at high negative potentials due to salt precipitation and electrowetting.[6] Salt precipitation primarily arises from the interaction between CO2 and OH ions, leading to the formation of bicarbonate (OH +CO2!HCO3 ) and carbonate ions (HCO3 +OH !CO3 <sup>2</sup> +H2O). These anions can react with residual divalent cations in electrolyte to produce insoluble salts. The precipitated salts obstruct the pores within the GDL and increase ionic resistance, ultimately inhibiting CO2 reduction efficiency. Electrowetting, on the other hand, describes the reduction of the GDL's contact angle under an applied electric field, allowing the liquid to spread more readily across the surface. If excessive voltage is applied or if the electrowetting effect persists, the GDL may become overly saturated, resulting in water accumulation within the pores and further impeding CO2 transport.[7] To address these issues, Sargent et al. proposed a PTFE-based gas diffusion electrode (GDE) strategy, in which the catalyst layer (e.g., Cu, Ag, Au) is directly sputtered onto a PTFE membrane, forming the PTFE based GDE (Figure 1b).[8] The superhydrophobicity and good chemical stability of the PTFE based GDE effectively prevents flooding and carbonate precipitation, allowing stable operation at high current density. However, the inherent insulating properties of the PTFE membrane currently limits its use to sputtered catalysts, restricting the application of catalysts that cannot be sputtered or have low electrical conductivity.

In this work, we develop a heteroarchitectural GDL by sequentially sputtering the conductive layer and inert stable support layer onto a superhydrophobic PTFE membrane (Figure 1c). The theoretical calculations were firstly performed to investigate the effect of the interaction between support layer and Cu catalyst on the catalytic activity of CO2RR, aiming to guide the selection of the surface support layer. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the strong metal-support interaction between TiB2 and Cu facilitates the adsorption of \*CO intermediates and reduces the energy barrier for \*OCCHO generation on Cu surface, positively affects the reduction of CO2 to C2H4. Experimentally, silver (Ag) and titanium boride (TiB2) were sequentially sputtered onto a PTFE substrate as the conductive and support layer, respectively, to construct a TiB2-based heteroarchitectural GDL. When assembled in a flow cell, Cu catalyst loaded on TiB2-based GDL achieved a maximum C2H4 Faradaic efficiency (FE) of 51.4% at 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH. Moreover, as-prepared GDL also proved suitable for use with higher concentration KOH electrolytes. The FE of C2H4 increases with higher KOH concentrations, reaching a FE of 64.7% in 6 M KOH electrolyte. The in situ Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) measurements demonstrate that Cu loaded on the TiB2-based heteroarchitectural GDL shows stronger intermediate adsorption than that on C-based heteroarchitectural GDL, favoring CO2 reduction. The GDLs developed in this work demonstrate several advantages, including strong hydrophobicity, good conductivity, high chemical stability, and compatibility with various catalysts and electrolytes. When coupled with cathodic CO2RR and anodic 5hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction, high value added C2H4 and 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) were produced with a total electron efficiency of 134.6% with lower reaction potential. This work not only proposes a robust outline for constructing highly stable GDLs for CO2 conversion at ampere-level current density but also presents a promising biomass coupling strategy to reduce energy consumption, thereby advancing the industrialization of CO2 conversion technology.

### *Results and Discussion*

Titanium (Ti) and its composites, e.g. titanium boride (TiB2), titanium oxide (TiO2), titanium nitride (TiN), titanium carbide (TiC), and titanium telluride (TiTe2), possess good electrical conductivity and chemical stability, and are electrochemically inert, making them suitable candidates as the electrode support layer. To investigate the interaction effect between supports and Cu catalyst, theoretical calculations were conducted. Firstly, the surface energies of the (111), (110), and (100) planes for TiB2, Ti, C, TiC, TiN, TiO2, and TiTe2 were calculated. The results, shown in Figure S1 and Table S1, indicate that TiB2(100), Ti(100), C(001), TiC(111), TiN(100), TiO2(100), and TiTe2(110) exhibit relatively lower surface energies among the evaluated planes. These findings suggest that these surfaces are

*Figure 1.* Schematic illustration of a) the carbon fiber supported GDE, b) PTFE based GDE, and c) home-made heterojunction architecture GDE.

15213757, 2025, 13, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202423263 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

thermodynamically stable and more likely to be exposed. Therefore, these surfaces were selected to support Cu. The TiB2(100)/Cu(111), Ti(100)/Cu(111), C(001)/Cu(111), TiC- (111)/Cu(111), TiN(100)/Cu(111), TiO2(100)/Cu(111), and TiTe2(110)/Cu(111) models were constructed (Figure 2a and Table S2). The interface formation energies for these models were calculated as 4.27, 4.06, 0.55, 4.37, 2.21, 1.06, and 1.85 Jm <sup>2</sup> , respectively (Figure S2 and Table S3). All formation energies are negative, confirming the thermodynamic stability of these interface structures. To identify the thermodynamically stable sites for H\* and CO2\* adsorption, Bader charge analysis was performed for each surface-layer Cu atom (Figure S3). Then, adsorption energies of H\* and CO2\* were calculated on the most protruding Cu atom and on Cu atoms with the minimum and maximum Bader charges. The results show that the adsorption energies of H\* and CO2\* for different Cu atoms on the same surface were similar and consistently negative, indicating their thermodynamic stability. Given that protruding sites often exhibit higher catalytic activity compared to flat sites,[9] the most protruding Cu atoms were selected as active sites for CO2RR and HER in this study. Then, the Gibbs free energies for generating C2H4 and H2 on Cu surfaces were calculated (Figures S4–S19). As shown in Figure 2b, the production of \*COOH and \*OCCHO intermediates is endothermic during CO2RR. Compared to the bare Cu surface, the heterojunctions show a lower energy barrier for these two steps, indicating a smoother process. For the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), the adsorption of H2O is exothermic on all examined surfaces. While, the dissociation of H2O into adsorbed OH and H\* intermediates (the Volmer step) is endothermic on the TiB2(100)/Cu(111),

*Figure 2.* DFT calculations. a) The theoretical models of Cu, C/Cu, Ti/ Cu, TiB2/Cu, TiC/Cu, TiN/Cu, TiO2/Cu, and TiTe2/Cu. b) Gibbs free energy diagrams of C2H4 and H2 generated on different Cu surfaces. c) ΔG\*OCCHO and d) \*CO Eads on Cu(111) surface as a function of CO coverage.

Ti(100)/Cu(111), C(001)/Cu(111), and TiC(111)/Cu(111) surfaces. As C C coupling reaction to produce \*OCCHO is the rate determine step for generating C2H4, [10] the Gibbs free energy change value for \*OCCHO formation (ΔG\*OCCHO) is positively related to the activity of electrocatalytic reduction of CO2 to C2H4. As show in Figure 2c, the ΔG\*OCCHO of Cu, C/Cu, Ti/Cu, TiB2/Cu, TiC/Cu, TiN/Cu, TiO2/Cu, and TiTe2/Cu is calculated as 1.62, 1.29, 1.22, 1.20, 1.49, 1.45, 1.48, and 1.51 eV, respectively. ΔG\*OCCHO decreases on the heterojuctions, where TiB2/Cu, C/Cu, and Ti/ Cu show relatively lower ΔG\*OCCHO, suggesting the higher potential catalytic activity toward reduction of CO2 to C2H4. To further identify the effect of supports, the adsorption energy of \*CO intermediate (\*CO Eads) on different Cu surfaces was calculated. As shown in Figure 2d, the heterostructures show higher \*CO Eads than that of bare Cu at different CO coverage, likely due to the strong metal– support interaction between Cu and support layers. The calculation results demonstrate that Cu supported on TiB2, Ti, and C exhibits relatively lower ΔG\*OCCHO and higher \*CO adsorption ability, making them potential surface support layer candidates.

Based on the theoretical calculation results, TiB2, Ti and C were selected as the support layer to sputter onto the PTFE surface as GDLs (see details in Supporting Information). Taking TiB2 as an example, TiB2-based GDL was prepared and characterized. Initial attempts to prepare GDLs by directly sputtering TiB2 onto the PTFE surface resulted in poor conductivity, with an impedance of 56.01 kΩ even after 30 min of sputtering (Figure S20). To address this issue, a layer of highly conductive Ag was first sputtered onto the PTFE surface as a conductive layer, followed by sputtering an inert TiB2 layer onto the Ag surface to prepare the PTFE/Ag/TiB2 heteroarchitectural GDL (denoted as TiB2-GDL). This strategy significantly improved the conductivity of the GDL. Sputtering Ag for 30 s, 45 s, 1 min, and 2 min followed by 5 min of TiB2 sputtering, the corresponding impedances of the prepared GDLs were 55.2, 11.6, 10.2, and 10.0 Ω, respectively. The results indicate that Ag sputtering durations beyond 45 s consistently produce GDLs with high conductivity. Since Ag is a highly electrochemically active metal, an excessively thick Ag layer may adversely affect catalytic performance. To balance conductivity and electrochemical performance, an Ag sputtering time of 45 s was selected for GDL preparation. In addition, the impact of pore structure on the properties of GDLs was also investigated. GDLs with varying pore structures were prepared using PTFE substrates with pore sizes of 0.45, 1, and 2 μm. The contact angle of GDLs with pore size of 0.45, 1, and 2 μm are 135°, 132°, and 130°, respectively (Figure 3a). As the pore size increases, the hydrophobicity of the GDL surface decreases slightly. Moreover, larger pores would be easily filled with electrolyte molecules, while smaller pores have to overcome significantly higher capillary pressure.[11] Therefore, the PTFE with pore diameter of 0.45 μm was used as the substrate for GDL preparation. The scanning electron microscopy and elemental mapping images reveal that Ag and TiB2 were homogeneously coated on PTFE subject (Figures 3b-3k). To prove the concept, 15213757, 2025, 13, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202423263 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 3.* Contact angle analysis of TiB2-based HAGDLs with different PTFE pore sizes, a) 0.45 μm, b) 1 μm, c) 2 μm. d) and e) SEM images of TiB2-GDL. f–k) Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy mapping images of TiB2-GDL.

graphite-and Ti-based GDL (denote as C-GDL and Ti-GDL, respectively) were also prepared via the same procedures, by sputtering graphite and Ti as the support layer, respectively (Figures S21 and S22). The impedances of Ti-GDL and C-GDL were measured as 9.0 and 20.4 Ω (Figure S23). Compared with Ti- and TiB2-GDLs, C-GDL exhibits higher impedance, which is attributed to the lower electrical conductivity of C compared to Ti and TiB2. The contact angle analysis demonsreates the similar surface hydrophobility, with the contact angles of approximately 130° (Figure S24). The nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurement results reveal the similar surface areas of 1.20, 1.19, and 1.21 m2 g <sup>1</sup> for TiB2-, Ti-, and C-GDL, respectively (Figure S25). The Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) analysis reveals that the average surface roughness (Ra) values of TiB2-, Ti-, and C-GDL are 2.47, 2.72, and 2.45 nm, respectively (Figure S26). All these results indicate that TiB2-, Ti-, and C-GDLs possess similar physical properties. Previous studies have demonstrated that Ag sputtering on PTFE exhibit potential electrocatalytic activity in reduction of CO2 to CO.[12] To this end, the CO2RR activity of blank GDLs was evaluated. As shown in gas chromatography (GC) spectra (Figures S27–29), only a very small amount of CO is generated, indicating that the constructed heteroarchitectural GDLs are inert to CO2RR and will not interfere with subsequent performance studies. Therefore, the GDLs prepared in this work possess good conductivity and hydrophobicity, and the interface support layer can be easily adjusted based on the catalyst or reaction type.

Copper oxide (CuO)-derived Cu is one of the most used catalysts for converting CO2 to C2H4. In this work, twodimensional CuO nanosheet was synthesized (Figures S30 and 31) and loaded on to GDLs to fabricate gas diffusion electrodes to evaluate the electrochemical performance of prepared GDLs.[13] The CuO was pre-reduced to Cu (0) by cyclic voltammetry (CV) method before CO2RR. As shown in Figure S32, the catalyst loaded on different GDLs exhibit similar onset potentials. However, as the reaction progresses, C-GDL requires a higher overpotential compared to TiB2-GDL and Ti-GDL. As a result, C-GDL displays a higher Tafel slope than TiB2-GDL and Ti-GDL, indicating relatively slower reaction kinetic. The slower kinetic is likely due to the lower electrical conductivity of C compared to TiB2 and Ti. Then, CO2RR was performed at constant current densities ranging from 600 to 1400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1 M KOH. C2H4 is the main product of CO2RR (Figure S33), maintaining high selectivity even under ampere-level current densities. Typically, Cu loaded on TiB2-GDL achieves a maximum C2H4 FE of 51.4% at 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> , outperforming that achieved on Ti-GDL (40.3%) and C-GDL (42.2%). For comparison, the performance of Cu catalyst loaded on common commercial CF supported GDLs was also evaluated, including Sigracet 28BC, Toray TGPH060, Freudenberg H23 C9, and CeTech W1S1010 (Figure S34). However, all of these commercial GDLs experience varying degrees of flooding when the operating current density exceed 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . The FE of CO and C2H4 drops sharply, while the FE of H2 rises at a current density of 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 4a). Post-measurement analysis reveals that the backsides of these commercial GDLs were penetrated by electrolyte (Figure S35). Videos in Supporting Information record the states of TiB2-GDL and 28BC after operating for 30 min at 1200 and 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. TiB2-GDL remains clean and dry after operating at 1200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for 30 min, while obvious droplets were observed on the backside of 28BC after 30 min of operation at 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Flooding fills the GDL pores with electrolyte, hindering CO2 supply to the catalyst surface and dramatically reducing CO2 conversion efficiency. To study the causes of flooding, these commercial GDLs were continuously operated for 2 hours at 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and the contact angles of these GDLs before and after the test were measured. Before electrochemical testing, the surface contact angles of 28BC, TGPH060, H23 C9, and W1S1010 are 153, 150, 151, and 143°, respectively, indicating strong hydrophobicity. However, the contact angles drop to 59, 56, 66, and 80°after electrochemical testing (Figure S36). The hydrophobicity of these commercial GDLs dramatically decreases after operation at large current density, causing flooding. Flooding in GDLs is a critical issue that needs to be addressed for the industrial CO2RR production. Benefiting from the superhydrophobicity of PTFE, the GDLs fabricated in this work enable operate stably at ampere-level current density. Large current density with high C2H4 FE result a high C2H4 partial current density of 688.8 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 4b), surpassing all of previous reported studies in 1 M KOH (Table S3). Moreover, the as-prepared GDLs can also be applied to harsher electrolyte environments, such as higher concentrations of

*Figure 4.* CO2RR performance. a) FE of C2H4 based on different GDLs in 1.0 M KOH. b) C2H4 partial current densities of TiB2-GDL, Ti-GDL, and C-GDL. c) FE of C2H4 measured from TiB2-GDL in 1.0, 3.0, 6.0, and 8.0 M KOH. The error bar represents the fluctuation of the data over the three tests. d) C2H4 partial current density comparison with previous reported works. e) Long-term stability measurement at 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> .

KOH. As shown in Figure S37, the overpotential shifts to even positive values with increasing KOH concentration, stabilizing at concentration exceeding 6.0 M KOH. Product analysis reveals a maximum C2H4 FE of 64.7% at 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> in 6.0 M KOH (Figure 4c), with a high C2H4 partial current density of 776.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . When the electrolyte concentration increases to 8.0 M KOH, the C2H4 FE exceeds that observed in 6.0 M KOH at lower current densities (Figure S38). However, as the current density increases to 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> , the C2H4 FE decreases, with a corresponding rise in the selectivity of the competing HER. To our knowledge, only Cu foil or GDEs obtained by sputtering Cu onto PTFE have been applied in strong alkali environments (Figure 4d).[14] Commercial CF supported GDLs are unsuitable for high-concentration KOH electrolytes due to their severe flooding and salt precipitation.[4c]

To assess the active surface area of as-prepared electrodes, CV measurements were performed at scan rates ranging from 40 to 180 mV s <sup>1</sup> within the potential range of 0.30 to 0.40 V (Figure S39). The double-layer capacitance (Cdl) values for TiB2-, Ti-, and C-based electrodes are calculated to be 0.33, 0.36, and 0.31 mFcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. Correspondingly, the electrochemical surface areas (ECSAs) of TiB2-, Ti-, and C-based electrodes are calculated as 11.38, 12.41, and 10.69 cm2 , respectively. Normalizing the partial C2H4 current density to the ECSA reveals that the catalyst loaded on TiB2-GDL exhibited a higher value than those on Ti-GDL and C-GDL across all current densities (Figure S40), demonstrating the superior catalytic activity.

Then, the GDL was continuous testing at a constant current density of 400 and 1000 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. After 45 hours of continuous testing at 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the working potential remains stable and the FE of C2H4 shows a slight attenuation (Figure 4e), indicating the good long-term stability. Compared with commercial CF supported GDLs, the constructed GDLs exhibit a 200-fold increase in the running lifetime. When operating at 1.0 Acm <sup>2</sup> , the FE of C2H4 begins to decay after 8 h of continuous testing (Figure S41). Then, the catalyst structure after catalysis was characterized. As shown in XRD spectrum, the diffraction peaks of CuO disappear, and the peaks corresponding to Cu and Cu2O are detected (Figure S42). The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy results demonstrate the co-exist valence state of Cu (0) and Cu (2+) (Figure S43).[15] The presence of oxide Cu species could result from the oxidation of the electrode when exposed to air after the electrochemical reaction.[16]

To investigate the dynamic state of Cu species during CO2RR, in situ X-ray absorption (XAS) was performed. Prior to testing, CuO was pre-reduced by CV method. XAS spectra were then monitored at open circuit potential (OCP) and 1.5 V, respectively. The X-ray absorption near edge structure spectra (XANES) spectra in Figure 5a show that the edge adsorption energy at both open OCP and 1.5 V is lower than that of CuO, but similar to that of Cu foil, demonstrating that the dominant valence state is 0.[17] Furthermore, the Fourier-transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra show a strong Cu Cu interaction at approximately 2.23 Å (Figure 5b), confirming that CuO was reduced to Cu(0) during electrochemical measurement.[18] Notably, a weak peak corresponding to the Cu O interaction was also detected after

*Figure 5.* In situ electrochemical measurements. a) Cu K-edge XANES and b) FT-EXAFS spectra obtained at OCP and 1.5 V. c) In situ FTIR spectra recorded on the TiB2/Cu and C/Cu electrodes.

15213757, 2025, 13, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202423263 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

operating at 1.5 V, indicating the presence of residual O. The residual O has been shown to favor \*CO adsorption on Cu surface,[19] which is benefit for C C coupling. To further monitor the adsorption intermediates on the Cu surface during CO2RR, in situ Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) was conducted (Figure S44). The in situ FTIR spectra of Cu loaded on TiB2-GDL and C-GDL were recorded to study the effect of the support on the adsorption capacity of intermediates on the Cu surface. A distinct peak at 2353 cm <sup>1</sup> , assigned to the asymmetric stretching of CO2, was detected on both TiB2/Cu and C/Cu surfaces (Figure 5c),[20] with the intensity of these peaks decreasing as the test potential increased, due to the consumption of CO2 at negative potential. Additionally, two peaks at 1639 and 1515 cm <sup>1</sup> , assigned to \*COOH and \*HCO3 symmetric stretching, were observed on TiB2/Cu surface.[21] While, these peaks shift to 1612 and 1477 cm <sup>1</sup> on C/Cu surface. The blue shift of these peaks on TiB2/Cu surface indicates stronger interactions, demonstrating a stronger adsorption ability of intermediates on the TiB2/Cu surface, which contributes to the promotion of CO2RR.[22]

Traditional cathodic CO2RR is general coupled with the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER). However, due to the sluggish kinetics of OER, substantial energy consumption is required.[23] Moreover, the anodic OER product O2 has low economic benefits.[24] To address these issues, HMFOR was applied to couple with CO2RR in this work. For this purpose, we synthesized nickel foam supported Ni(OH)2 nanoarrays (Ni(OH)2@NF) as the electrocatalyst for HMFOR (Figures S45–S47). The catalytic performance was first evaluated in H-type cell. As shown in linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (Figure S48), after introducing HMF into the electrolyte, the potential required to achieve the same current density is significantly reduced. In contrast, the bare NF displays similar LSV curves in KOH electrolyte with or without HMF, and the current density is much smaller than that of Ni(OH)2@NF at the same potential. Ni(OH)2@NF shows potential catalytic activity toward HMFOR, with Ni(OH)2 serving as catalytic active sites. Based on the LSV curves, the Tafel slope of Ni(OH)2@NF in 1 M KOH and 1 M KOH containing 10 mM HMF is calculated to be 101 and 60 mV dec <sup>1</sup> , respectively (Figure S49). The lower Tafel slope in the presence of HMF indicates faster kinetics for HMFOR compared to OER.[25] Additionally, the Nyquist plot measured in HMF containing electrolyte shows a smaller diameter than that in pure KOH solution, revealing faster charge transfer at the electrolyte and electrode interface (Figure S50).[26] Generally, the oxidization of HMF into FDCA follows two possible pathways (Figure S51). Pathway 1 preferentially oxidizes HMF to dialdehyde 2,5-dicarboxylfuran (DFF), pathway 2 preferentially oxidizes HMF to 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA). Then, DFF and HMFCA are oxidized to 5 formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA) and finally to FDCA.[27] To quantify the concentration of intermediates and products of HMFOR, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was conducted. According to the equation S2 and S3, the conversion efficiency of HMF and FE of FDCA at specific potential are calculated. The Ni(OH)2@NF exhibits nearly 100% HMF conversion and FDCA FE at 1.40 and 1.45 V (Figure S52). HPLC curves recorded the concentration changes in each component as the reaction proceeds at a potential of 1.45 V. Both DFF and HMFCA intermediates were detected, indicating that both pathways were occurring simultaneously. The HMF signal disappears upon 58 C charge transfer, indicating complete conversion of HMF. Continuous testing over 5 cycles maintains high HMF conversion and FDCA FE (Figures S53 and S54), demonstrating the good stability.

To achieve higher product economic benefits and reduce energy consumption, a CO2RRj jHMFOR system was integrated (Figures 6a and S55). Compared to the CO2RRj j OER system, the CO2RRj jHMFOR system requires a lower anode potential (Figure 6b). The anode potential decreases by approximately 200 mV on average at various constant current densities (Figure 6c), thereby reducing the energy consumption. Cathode product analysis shows a C2H4 FE of 49.2% at 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 6d), which is comparable to that obtained in CO2RR-OER system (51.4% in 1 M KOH), proving that the presence of HMF in anolyte does not affect the CO2RR. For anodic HMFOR, FE of FDCA remains 85.4% (Figure 6e), the FDCA production rate reaches 0.994 g h <sup>1</sup> . The combined electronic efficiency of C2H4 and FDCA reaches 134.6% (Figure S56), demonstrating the significant advantages of this coupling

*Figure 6.* a) Schematic illustration of CO2RR coupled to HMFOR. b) LSV curves of CO2RRj jOER and CO2RRj jHMFOR systems. c) Potential difference between CO2RRj jOER and CO2RRj jHMFOR systems at different current densities. d) FE of C2H4, CO and H2 obtained from cathode. e) HMF conversion and FDCA FE obtained from anode.

## *Forschungsartikel*

system in enhancing energy efficiency. Moreover, after six continuous reaction cycles at a constant current of 1.0 A, the FDCA FE remained above 85% (Figure S57). Post-measurement XRD and SEM analyses revealed the same crystal structure and morphology as before the test (Figures S58 and S59), demonstrating good stability of Ni(OH)2@NF. The CO2RRj jHMFOR coupling system not only reduces energy consumption but also increases the value of anode products, showing great economic profitability.

### *Conclusion*

In summary, we develop a new heteroarchitectural GDL by sequentially sputtering the conductive Ag and TiB2 onto a superhydrophobic PTFE substrate. Such GDL exhibits excellent conductivity, strong hydrophobicity, high chemical stability, and compatibility with various catalysts and electrolytes. Integrated into a flow cell with Cu catalyst, a maximum C2H4 FE of 64.7% was achieved at 1.2 Acm <sup>2</sup> , result in a large partial current density of 776.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Additionally, the GDL demonstrates stable operation at 400 mAcm <sup>2</sup> over 40 hours, a performance 200 times greater than that of commercial carbon-based GDLs. Coupling CO2RR with HMFOR reduces the anode potential by approximately 200 mV, and the FEs of C2H4 and FDCA reach 49.2% and 85.4%, respectively. The development of highly stable GDLs and the implementation of coupling strategy in this work will benefit the industrialization of CO2RR.

#### *Acknowledgements*

C. Lu and P. Shi contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC: 52173205, 42171268) and NSFC Young Scientists Fund (22208213, 22208210). The authors also thank the support from China Postdoctoral Science Fund (2022M712032). We thank the beamline BL14W1 and BL15U1 of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and BL11U of Hefei Synchrotron Radiation Facility for providing the beam time. The computations in this paper were run on the π 2.0 cluster supported by the Center for High Performance Computing at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. We thank the support from the Instrumental Analysis Center of SJTU.

### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** heteroarchitecture **·** gas diffusion layer **·** flooding **·** ethylene **·** ampere-level current density

- [1] a) J. Jin, J. Wicks, Q. Min, J. Li, Y. Hu, J. Ma, Y. Wang, Z. Jiang, Y. Xu, R. Lu, G. Si, P. Papangelakis, M. Shakouri, Q. Xiao, P. Ou, X. Wang, Z. Chen, W. Zhang, K. Yu, J. Song, X. Jiang, P. Qiu, Y. Lou, D. Wu, Y. Mao, A. Ozden, C. Wang, B. Y. Xia, X. Hu, V. P. Dravid, Y.-M. Yiu, T.-K. Sham, Z. Wang, D. Sinton, L. Mai, E. H. Sargent, Y. Pang, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-05918-8)* **2023**, *617*, [724–729;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-05918-8) b) J. Gu, C.-S. Hsu, L. Bai, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Science* **2019**, *364*, [1091–1094](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaw7515); c) M. Zhong, K. Tran, Y. Min, C. Wang, Z. Wang, C.-T. Dinh, P. De Luna, Z. Yu, A. S. Rasouli, P. Brodersen, S. Sun, O. Voznyy, C.-S. Tan, M. Askerka, F. Che, M. Liu, A. Seifitokaldani, Y. Pang, S.-C. Lo, A. Ip, Z. Ulissi, E. H. Sargent, *Nature* **2020**, *581*, [178–183](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-2242-8); d) J. E. Huang, F. Li, A. Ozden, A. Sedighian Rasouli, F. P. García de Arquer, S. Liu, S. Zhang, M. Luo, X. Wang, Y. Lum, Y. Xu, K. Bertens, R. K. Miao, C.-T. Dinh, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *Science* **2021**, *372*, [1074–1078.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abg6582)
- [2] a) X. She, L. Zhai, Y. Wang, P. Xiong, M. M.-J. Li, T.-S. Wu, M. C. Wong, X. Guo, Z. Xu, H. Li, H. Xu, Y. Zhu, S. C. E. Tsang, S. P. Lau, *Nat. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-023-01415-4)* **2024**, *9*, 81–91; b) X. Chen, J. Chen, N. M. Alghoraibi, D. A. Henckel, R. Zhang, U. O. Nwabara, K. E. Madsen, P. J. A. Kenis, S. C. Zimmerman, A. A. Gewirth, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 20–27; c) C. Song, K. Jiang, P. Shi, X. Chai, J. Zhang, C. Lu, Y. Su, X. Zhuang, T. Wang, *Chem. Eng. Sci.* **2023**, *277*, [118838;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ces.2023.118838) d) C. Xia, P. Zhu, Q. Jiang, Y. Pan, W. Liang, E. Stavitski, H. N. Alshareef, H. Wang, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0451-x) Energy* **2019**, *4*, [776–785](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0451-x); e) T. Wang, J. Wang, C. Lu, K. Jiang, S. Yang, Z. Ren, J. Zhang, X. Liu, L. Chen, X. Zhuang, J. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2205553; f) L. Han, S. Song, M. Liu, S. Yao, Z. Liang, H. Cheng, Z. Ren, W. Liu, R. Lin, G. Qi, X. Liu, Q. Wu, J. Luo, H. L. Xin, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b12111) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [12563–12567](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b12111); g) Y. Zhang, L.-Z. Dong, S. Li, X. Huang, J.-N. Chang, J.-H. Wang, J. Zhou, S.-L. Li, Y.-Q. Lan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6390; h) Y. Wu, Z. Jiang, X. Lu, Y. Liang, H. Wang, *Nature* **2019**, *575*, [639–642.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1760-8)
- [3] a) Y. Chen, X.-Y. Li, Z. Chen, A. Ozden, J. E. Huang, P. Ou, J. Dong, J. Zhang, C. Tian, B.-H. Lee, X. Wang, S. Liu, Q. Qu, S. Wang, Y. Xu, R. K. Miao, Y. Zhao, Y. Liu, C. Qiu, J. Abed, H. Liu, H. Shin, D. Wang, Y. Li, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-023-01543-8) [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41565-023-01543-8)* **2024**, *19*, 311–318; b) W. Fang, W. Guo, R. Lu, Y. Yan, X. Liu, D. Wu, F. M. Li, Y. Zhou, C. He, C. Xia, H. Niu, S. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Mao, C. Zhang, B. You, Y. Pang, L. Duan, X. Yang, F. Song, T. Zhai, G. Wang, X. Guo, B. Tan, T. Yao, Z. Wang, B. Y. Xia, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06917-5)* **2024**, *626*, 86–91; c) Y. Hao, Y.-L. Wang, X. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 17187–17191.
- [4] a) F. P. García de Arquer, C.-T. Dinh, A. Ozden, J. Wicks, C. McCallum, A. R. Kirmani, D.-H. Nam, C. Gabardo, A. Seifitokaldani, X. Wang, Y. C. Li, F. Li, J. Edwards, L. J. Richter, S. J. Thorpe, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aay4217)* **2020**, *367*, [661–666](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aay4217); b) E. W. Lees, B. A. W. Mowbray, F. G. L. Parlane, C. P. Berlinguette, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2022**, *7*, 55–64; c) T. N. Nguyen, C.-T. Dinh, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00230E) Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 7488– [7504](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CS00230E).
- [5] S. Hong, H. G. Abbas, K. Jang, K. K. Patra, B. Kim, B.-U. Choi, H. Song, K.-S. Lee, P.-P. Choi, S. Ringe, J. Oh, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2208996.
- [6] a) L. Li, J. Chen, V. S. S. Mosali, Y. Liang, A. M. Bond, Q. Gu, J. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202208534; b) K. Yang, R. Kas, W. A. Smith, T. Burdyny, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.0c02184) Lett.* **2021**, *6*, [33–40;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.0c02184) c) W. Fang, R. Lu, F.-M. Li, C. He, D. Wu, K. Yue, Y. Mao, W. Guo, B. You, F. Song, T. Yao, Z. Wang, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202319936.

# *Forschungsartikel*

- [7] Y. Wu, L. Charlesworth, I. Maglaya, M. N. Idros, M. Li, T. Burdyny, G. Wang, T. E. Rufford, *ACS [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.2c01555) Lett.* **2022**, *7*, [2884–2892.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.2c01555)
- [8] a) Y. Li, A. Ozden, W. R. Leow, P. Ou, J. E. Huang, Y. Wang, K. Bertens, Y. Xu, Y. Liu, C. Roy, H. Jiang, D. Sinton, C. Li, E. H. Sargent, *Nature [Catalysis](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00749-8)* **2022**, *5*, 185–192; b) X. Wang, Z. Wang, F. P. García de Arquer, C.-T. Dinh, A. Ozden, Y. C. Li, D.-H. Nam, J. Li, Y.-S. Liu, J. Wicks, Z. Chen, M. Chi, B. Chen, Y. Wang, J. Tam, J. Y. Howe, A. Proppe, P. Todorović, F. Li, T.-T. Zhuang, C. M. Gabardo, A. R. Kirmani, C. McCallum, S.-F. Hung, Y. Lum, M. Luo, Y. Min, A. Xu, C. P. O'Brien, B. Stephen, B. Sun, A. H. Ip, L. J. Richter, S. O. Kelley, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, [478–486;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-020-0607-8) c) X. Wang, P. Ou, J. Wicks, Y. Xie, Y. Wang, J. Li, J. Tam, D. Ren, J. Y. Howe, Z. Wang, A. Ozden, Y. Z. Finfrock, Y. Xu, Y. Li, A. S. Rasouli, K. Bertens, A. H. Ip, M. Graetzel, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3387.
- [9] Carsten Bridget, Szarko, Jodi M., Son, Hae Jung, Wang Wei, Lu, Luyao, He Feng, Rolczynski Brian S., Lou Sylvia J, Chen, Lin X, Yu Luping, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, **2003**, *125*, 1958–1967.
- [10] a) X. Wei, Z. L. Yin, K. J. Lyu, Z. Li, J. Gong, G. W. Wang, L. Xiao, J. T. Lu, L. Zhuang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, [4103–4111;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00049) b) J. Wang, T. Cheng, A. Q. Fenwick, T. N. Baroud, A. Rosas-Hernández, J. H. Ko, Q. Gan, W. A. Goddard Iii, R. H. Grubbs, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [2857–2865](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c12478).
- [11] R. Haaring, P. W. Kang, Z. Guo, J. W. Lee, H. Lee, *[Acc.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.3c00349) Chem. Res.* **2023**, *56*, [2595–2605](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.3c00349).
- [12] K. Ye, G. Zhang, X.-Y. Ma, C. Deng, X. Huang, C. Yuan, G. Meng, W.-B. Cai, K. Jiang, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE02966E) Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 749– [759.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1EE02966E)
- [13] X. Wang, K. Klingan, M. Klingenhof, T. Möller, J. Ferreira de Araújo, I. Martens, A. Bagger, S. Jiang, J. Rossmeisl, H. Dau, P. Strasser, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 794.
- [14] a) C.-T. Dinh, T. Burdyny, M. G. Kibria, A. Seifitokaldani, C. M. Gabardo, F. P. García de Arquer, A. Kiani, J. P. Edwards, P. De Luna, O. S. Bushuyev, C. Zou, R. Quintero-Bermudez, Y. Pang, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aas9100)* **2018**, *360*, [783–787](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aas9100); b) M. G. Kibria, C.-T. Dinh, A. Seifitokaldani, P. De Luna, T. Burdyny, R. Quintero-Bermudez, M. B. Ross, O. S. Bushuyev, F. P. García de Arquer, P. Yang, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1804867; c) Z. Wang, Y. Li, X. Zhao, S. Chen, Q. Nian, X. Luo, J. Fan, D. Ruan, B.-Q. Xiong, X. Ren, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, [6339–6348.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c13384)
- [15] Y. Zhao, X. Zu, R. Chen, X. Li, Y. Jiang, Z. Wang, S. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Sun, Y. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [10446–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c02594) [10454.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c02594)

- [16] S. Mu, H. Lu, Q. Wu, L. Li, R. Zhao, C. Long, C. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3694.
- [17] H. S. Jeon, J. Timoshenko, F. Scholten, I. Sinev, A. Herzog, F. T. Haase, B. Roldan Cuenya, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b10709) Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [19879–19887](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b10709).
- [18] H. S. Jeon, J. Timoshenko, C. Rettenmaier, A. Herzog, A. Yoon, S. W. Chee, S. Oener, U. Hejral, F. T. Haase, B. Roldan Cuenya, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [7578–7587.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c03443)
- [19] W. Zhang, C. Huang, Q. Xiao, L. Yu, L. Shuai, P. An, J. Zhang, M. Qiu, Z. Ren, Y. Yu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c01562) Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [11417–11427](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c01562).
- [20] a) Q. Zhang, S. Gao, Y. Guo, H. Wang, J. Wei, X. Su, H. Zhang, Z. Liu, J. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1147; b) L. Cheng, X. Yue, L. Wang, D. Zhang, P. Zhang, J. Fan, Q. Xiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105135.
- [21] X. Li, Y. Sun, J. Xu, Y. Shao, J. Wu, X. Xu, Y. Pan, H. Ju, J. Zhu, Y. Xie, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, [690–699.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-019-0431-1)
- [22] J. Li, H. Zeng, X. Dong, Y. Ding, S. Hu, R. Zhang, Y. Dai, P. Cui, Z. Xiao, D. Zhao, L. Zhou, T. Zheng, J. Xiao, J. Zeng, C. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 340.
- [23] a) K. Xie, A. Ozden, R. K. Miao, Y. Li, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3070; b) C. Cao, D.-D. Ma, J. Jia, Q. Xu, X.-T. Wu, Q.-L. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008631.
- [24] M. A. Bajada, S. Roy, J. Warnan, K. Abdiaziz, A. Wagner, M. M. Roessler, E. Reisner, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202002680) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [15633–15641](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202002680).
- [25] S. Li, S. Wang, Y. Wang, J. He, K. Li, Y. Xu, M. Wang, S. Zhao, X. Li, X. Zhong, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214488.
- [26] a) S.-Q. Liu, M.-R. Gao, S. Wu, R. Feng, Y. Wang, L. Cui, Y. Guo, X.-Z. Fu, J.-L. Luo, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE01999C) Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 5305– [5314](https://doi.org/10.1039/D3EE01999C); b) H. Dai, Y. Huang, H. Bai, H. Li, H. Zhao, F. Wang, W. Fan, W. Shi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, 2402789.
- [27] a) X. Liu, X. Wang, C. Mao, J. Qiu, R. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Chen, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, e202408109; b) X. Lu, K. Qi, X. Dai, Y. Li, D. Wang, J. Dou, W. Qi, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D4SC01752H) Sci.* **2024**, *15*, [11043–11052](https://doi.org/10.1039/D4SC01752H).

Manuscript received: November 28, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: January 7, 2025 Version of record online: January 17, 2025

15213757, 2025, 13, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202423263 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License