---
source: Lu 等 - 2025 - Integrated Electrochemical Biomass Oxidation and CO2 Reduction over Ultra‐wide Potential.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.105s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:49:32.395767Z
---

## *Forschungsartikel*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202502846 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202502846](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202502846)

# **Integrated Electrochemical Biomass Oxidation and CO2 Reduction over Ultra-wide Potential Window**

*Chenbao Lu, Sen Yang, Pengfei Shi, Senhe Huang, Chengcheng Cai, Jinhui Zhu, Xiaodong Zhuang, and [Tianfu](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0026-5458) Wang\**

**Abstract:** Electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) coupled with biomass oxidation using renewable electricity is considered as a promising strategy for carbon management. However, achieving both high selectivity and large current density over wide potential window remains a significant challenge, hindering practical applications. In this study, a Ni/Fe dual metalatom catalyst is developed for CO2 reduction, achieving nearly 100% CO selectivity across an ultra-wide potential window of 1.6 V, surpassing state-of-the-art catalysts. Remarkably, this high CO selectivity is maintained above 98% even after 100 hours of continuous operation at an industrial current density of 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , demonstrating excellent long-term stability. When integrated into a solar electricity-driven CO2 reduction coupled 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation system, nearly 100% CO Faradaic efficiency and 90% 2,5 furandicarboxylic acid yield are simultaneously obtained. Theoretical calculations reveal that the ratelimiting step for the CO2 reduction reaction varies with the applied potential, and the synergistic interaction between Ni and Fe atoms effectively lowers the limiting energy barrier. This work offers valuable insights for the strategic design and synthesis of catalysts with high activity and selectivity across wide potential window, providing a versatile platform for coupling CO2 reduction with diverse anodic biomass oxidation reactions and renewable energy sources.

[\*] Dr. C. Lu, S. Yang, C. Cai, Prof. T. Wang School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China) E-mail: tfwang@sjtu.edu.cn

Dr. C. Lu, P. Shi, S. Huang, Dr. J. Zhu, Prof. X. Zhuang The Soft2D Lab, State Key Laboratory of Metal Matrix Composites, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Electrical Insulation and Thermal Ageing, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China)

Dr. C. Lu, Prof. X. Zhuang

Frontiers Science Center for Transformative Molecules, Zhangjiang Institute for Advanced Study, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 429 Zhangheng Road, Shanghai 201203 (China)

P. Shi

School of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 Dongchuan Road, Shanghai 200240 (China)

### *Introduction*

Electrocatalytic carbon dioxide reduction (CO2RR) has emerged as a promising sustainable technology for carbon utilization, attracting great attention for its potential to convert CO2 into valuable chemicals and fuels under mild conditions.[1] CO2RR can yield a diverse array of products, including carbon monoxide (CO), methane, formic acid, methanol, and ethylene etc., all of which exhibit vital applications in the chemical and energy sectors.[2] Among these, CO stands out as particularly promising for industrial applications due to its high conversion efficiency and substantial demand in established industries, such as chemical synthesis (e.g., Fischer–Tropsch processes and methanol production) and fuel production (e.g., syngas).[3] In conventional CO2RR electrochemical systems, the anode reaction typically involves the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). However, the high overpotential of OER and the low economic value of its product, O2, limit the overall economic viability of the process. Recent studies suggest that coupling CO2RR with the oxidation of biomass-derived molecules can lower the reaction overpotential while generating valueadded chemicals at both the cathode and anode, enhancing the system's commercial potential.[4] Since different biomass-derived molecules exhibit varying oxidation overpotentials, developing CO2 reduction catalysts with high activity across a broad potential window is crucial for ensuring compatibility with diverse oxidation reactions.

Over the past few years, various types of catalysts have been explored for electrocatalytic CO2RR, including metal catalysts,[5] molecular catalysts,[6] and single-atom catalysts (SACs).[7] SACs, in particular, have gained great attention because of their outstanding catalytic activity, tunable active sites, and ultra-high atomic efficiency.[8] In the CO2-to-CO process, Ni N C catalysts serve as a prominent example, demonstrating nearly 100% selectivity and efficient catalytic performance for CO.[9] However, most Ni-N C catalysts exhibit high activity only within a narrow potential range, with their active voltage window typically not exceeding 1 V,[10] which limits their applicability under the complex conditions of industrial operations.[11] For industrial applications, a wider potential window allows the reaction to occur over a broader voltage range, making it easier to adjust operational conditions based on energy availability (e.g., fluctuating renewable energy sources like solar or wind). Moreover, an extended potential window minimizes overpotential losses, thereby reducing overall energy consumption. For the large-scale implementation of CO2 electrolysis,

# *Forschungsartikel*

the system must be adaptable to varying operational conditions. A wider potential window enhances integration into diverse industrial setups by accommodating different feedstock compositions and energy inputs. Therefore, expanding the potential window for CO2 reduction improves efficiency and adaptability, making large-scale industrial CO2 conversion more economically and technically viable– an ongoing challenge in the field.

In this study, a porous carbon-supported Ni/Fe dual metal-atom catalyst is developed using a facile molten salt method. As an electrocatalyst for CO2RR, the catalyst achieves nearly 100% CO Faradaic efficiency (FECO) over a broad potential range from 0.2 V to 1.8 V, as well as a maximum CO partial current density of 608.2 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . During continuous operation at a constant current density of 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for 100 hours, the overpotential remains stable, and the FECO maintains above 98%, demonstrating exceptional long-term stability. When the cathodic CO2RR is coupled with anodic 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction (HMFOR) or ethylene glycol oxidation reaction (EGOR), the cell potential drops by approximately 200 mV. In a solar electricity-driven CO2RR coupled HMFOR system, nearly 100% FECO and 90% 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) yield are simultaneously achieved at the cathode and anode, respectively. Theoretical calculations reveal that the free energy for CO2 adsorption decrease with increasingly negative applied potentials, and the rate-limiting step varies with the applied potential. The introduction of Fe atoms into the single-Ni-atom structure to form a Ni/ Fe dual metal-atom architecture effectively reduces the limiting energy barrier across the entire potential range, thereby enhancing CO2 reduction activity. This study offers both experimental and theoretical insights for designing and developing CO2RR catalysts with superior activity and selectivity over a wide potential window.

#### *Results and Discussion*

The SACs in this study were prepared using a straightforward molten salt approach (Figure 1a). Nitrogen-rich 1,1' dimethyl-1H,1'H-[2,2']biimidazolyl-4,5,4',5'-tetracarbonitrile (DBTB) was synthesized and served as the carbon and nitrogen precursor. To prepare the Ni/Fe dual metal-atom catalysts (Ni/Fe-DAC), a mixture of DBTB, zinc chloride (ZnCl2), nickel chloride (NiCl2), and iron chloride (FeCl3) was ground in a glove box and transferred to a quartz tube. The tube was sealed and subjected to pyrolysis in a muffle furnace at 800 °C for 2 days. After cooling to room temperature, the resulting powder was treated with aqueous HCl to remove zinc and unstable metal components, yielding the Ni/Fe-DAC. The single-Ni-atom catalyst (Ni-SAC) and single-Fe-atom catalyst (Fe-SAC) were synthesized using the same method by adding the corresponding metal source during the preparation processes.

The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns display two peaks at approximately 23.5° and 43.2° (Figure S1), indicating an amorphous carbon structure.[12] No diffraction peaks associated with metal compounds can be observed, ruling out the presence of metal nanoparticles. Raman spectra show that the intensity ratios of D and G bands for Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC are 1.03, 1.02, and 1.06, respectively (Figure S2), further confirming the amorphous carbon structure.[13] The scanning electron microscopy images of Ni/ Fe-DAC (Figure S3) reveal an irregular block morphology. Then, HAADF-STEM was carried out to verify the state of metal species in an atomic-scale. As shown in Figure 1b, amounts of bright spots uniformly distribute within the carbon framework, indicating atomically dispersed metal species. Moreover, some atomic pairs can be observed (Figure 1c), with the interatomic distance measured to approximately 2.70 Å (Figure 1d). The elemental mapping (Figure 1e) reveals the uniform distribution of Ni, Fe, C, and N elements. These results verify the successful preparation of Ni/Fe-DAC. For Ni-SAC and Fe-SAC, HAADF-STEM analysis confirms the atomic dispersion of Ni and Fe (Figures S4 and S5). The molten salt method presented in this study is an effective approach for synthesizing SACs, allowing adjust the incorporation of specific metal atoms.

To study the chemical states of metal centers, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) were performed. The Ni K-edge XANES spectra (Figure 2a) reveal that the pre-edge energy of Ni in Ni/Fe-DAC and Ni-SAC is similar to NiPc but higher than nickel foil, indicating a +2 valence in Ni/Fe-DAC and Ni-SAC.[14] This conclusion is further supported by XPS results, which show two peaks at ~872.6 and 855.4 eV (Figures S6 and S7), corresponding to the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 2p1/ <sup>2</sup> and 2p3/2, respectively.[15] For Fe species, the pre-edge energy of Fe in Ni/Fe-DAC and Fe-SAC is higher than that of FeO but lower than that of Fe2O3 (Figure 2b), suggesting an intermediate oxidation state.[16] The XPS spectra of Fe 2p present two peaks at ~723.9 and 710.7 eV (Figures S6 and S8), in agreement with the oxidation state.[17] Together with the XANES results, Fe in Ni/Fe-DAC and Fe-SAC exhibit a mixture valence state of +2 and +3.

The Fourier-transformed Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra for Ni (Figure 2c) reveal that the main peak in Ni/Fe-DAC and Ni-SAC is located at ~1.40 Å, attributable to the Ni N coordination.[18] No Ni Ni signal (2.18 Å) is detected, demonstrating the atomic dispersion of Ni in both Ni/Fe-DAC and Ni-SAC. Similarly, the Fe FT-EXAFS spectra of Ni/Fe-DAC and Fe-SAC present a strong peak at ~1.43 Å (Figure 2d), attributable to the Fe N interaction, with no evidence of Fe Fe scattering (~2.20 Å), demonstrating the atomic dispersion of Fe.[19] Moreover, the EXAFS wavelet transforms images for both Ni and Fe K-edges exhibit a single prominent intensity around 4.0 Å <sup>1</sup> in Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC (Figure 2e), corresponding to Ni N and Fe N interactions, further proving the atomic dispersion of Ni and Fe species.[20] To deeper study the coordination environment of metal sites, quantitative fitting analysis was conducted. The results reveal that the coordination number (CN) of Ni N and Fe N in Ni/Fe-DAC are 4.10 and 3.92, respectively (Figures 2f and 2 g, Table S1). Similarly, the CN of Ni N in Ni-SAC and the Fe N in Fe-SAC are fitted as 3.85 and 4.25, respectively (Figures S9 and S10). Combining the HAADF-

*Figure 1.* a) Schematic diagram of Ni/Fe-DAC preparation. b, c) HAADF-STEM images of Ni/Fe-DAC. d) The distance between atomic pairs. e) EDS mapping images.

STEM and XAS results, it is conclusively demonstrated that the independent Ni and Fe SACs, as well as Ni/Fe dual metal-atom catalysts, were successfully synthesized.

Preparation of carbon-based SACs using the molten salt method in a closed environment not only ensures a higher carbon yield but also typically results in carbon materials with a rich pore structure. To study the pore structure of the prepared SACs, nitrogen adsorption-desorption measurement was performed. The isotherms presented in Figure S11 display a distinct hysteresis loop, indicating the abundant 15213757, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202502846 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

15213757, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202502846 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Figure 2.* a) Ni K-edge XANES spectra of Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, NiPc, and Ni foil. b) Fe K-edge XANES spectra of Ni/Fe-DAC, Fe-SAC, FePc, FeO, Fe2O3, and Fe foil. c) FT-EXAFS spectra of Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, NiPc, and Ni foil. d) FT-EXAFS spectra of Ni/Fe-DAC, Fe-SAC, FePc, and Fe foil. e) Wavelet transform EXAFS images of Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni foil, and Fe foil. f) Ni and g) Fe EXAFS fitting results of Ni/Fe-DAC.

mesoporous structures.[21] The specific surface areas of Ni/ Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC are calculated as 1975, 2103, and 1920 m2 g <sup>1</sup> , respectively (Table S2). Using the nonlocal density functional theory model, the pore volumes of Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC at *P/P*<sup>0</sup> of 0.99 are determined to be 2.79, 3.13, and 3.24 cm<sup>3</sup> g <sup>1</sup> , respectively. This rich pore structure can facilitate gas diffusion and expose more active sites, which contributes to improve the catalytic performance.[22]

The electrochemical CO2RR was performed in flow cells (Figure S12). As depicted in Figure 3a, Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC show a similar onset potential for CO2RR. Specifically, the current densities reach to several hundred at 3.0 V, with Ni/Fe-DAC and Fe-SAC exhibit larger current densities across the entire potential range compared to Ni-SAC. Then, CO2RR was performed at constant potentials to evaluate the selectivity for CO2 reduction products. No liquid products can be detected (Figure S13), and the gaseous products consist solely of CO and H2. Based on Equation S1, the FE of CO and H2 are calculated. As shown in Figure 3b, Ni/Fe-DAC and Ni-SAC exhibit significantly higher selectivity for CO2 reduction to CO compared to Fe-SAC, suggesting that the Ni species possess higher catalytic activity toward CO production. Remarkably, Ni/Fe-DAC achieves nearly 100% FECO at potential from 0.2 V to 1.8 V, representing a wide potential window of 1.6 V. Furthermore, it maintains a FECO of 92.1% even at a negative potential of 2.3 V, resulting in a potential window with FECO *>*90% extending to 2.1 V. Based on the measured current densities and FECO values, the maximum CO partial current densities (JCO) for Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC reach to 608.2, 396.3, and 299.6 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure 3c), respectively. The JCO value for Ni/Fe-DAC is approximately 1.5 times that of Ni-SAC and 2 times that of Fe-SAC, highlighting the superior conversion efficiency of Ni/Fe-DAC. Overall, Ni/Fe-DAC demonstrates

*Figure 3.* CO2RR performance measured in flow cells. a) LSV curves, b) FECO, c) CO partial current density of as-prepared SACs. d) Comparison of CO partial current density and potential window with other reported catalysts. e) TOF, f) double-layer capacitance, and g) Radar chart summarizing CO2RR performance metrics of as-prepared SACs. h) Long-term stability record for Ni/Fe-DAC at a constant current density of 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , with arrows indicating electrolyte refreshing events.

not only a state-of-the-art active potential window but also a large current density compared to the previous reported catalysts (Figure 3d and Table S3), showing a great potential for practical applications.

To evaluate the intrinsic activity of the obtained SACs, the turnover frequency (TOF) and double-layer capacitance (Cdl) were calculated. As illustrated in Figure 3e, Ni/Fe-DAC exhibits a maximum TOF of 74,728 h <sup>1</sup> at 2.3 V, nearly twice as high as that of Ni-SAC (40,595 h <sup>1</sup> ), indicating that the incorporation of Fe atoms notably enhances the intrinsic activity of the Ni N sites.[23] In contrast, the maximum TOF of Fe-SAC is only 17,801 h <sup>1</sup> , demonstrating that Ni N sites possess superior electrocatalytic activity for CO2 reduction compared to Fe N sites. The Cdl was determined from cyclic voltammetry measurements at various scan rates (Figure S14), yielding values of 50.1, 49.1, and 49.3 mFcm <sup>2</sup> for Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC, respectively (Figure 3f). The comparable Cdl values can likely be attributed to the similar specific surface areas and metal contents for the as-prepared SACs.[24] When normalizing the partial CO current density to the electrochemical surface area, Ni/Fe-DAC shows the higher value than that of Ni-SAC and Fe-SAC (Figure S15), indicating its superior intrinsic catalytic activity. Additionally, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy measurement reveals similar Nyquist plots for Ni/Fe-DAC, Ni-SAC, and Fe-SAC (Figure S16), indicating comparable charge transfer capabilities. These results demonstrate that Ni/Fe-DAC exhibits a wider active potential window, higher JCO, and TOF, while maintaining comparable electrochemical surface area and charge transfer capability, when compared to both Ni-SAC and Fe-SAC (Figure 3g). The Ni N sites in Ni/Fe-DAC hold 15213757, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202502846 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte Chemie*

higher intrinsic activity for CO2RR. In addition to its outstanding catalytic activity, Ni/Fe-DAC also shows remarkable long-term stability. After continuous working for 100 hours at an industrial current density of 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential remains stable, and the FECO maintains above 98% (Figure 3h). Notably, in the first 80 hours, FECO was consistently above 99%.

In general, CO2RR is coupled with the OER. However, the economic viability of CO2RRj jOER system is limited by the high overpotential and low product value associated with the OER.[25] Recent studies have shown that coupling CO2RR with biomass-derived molecule oxidation reactions can not only reduce the reaction potential but also produce higher-value products, offering significant application potential.[26] The Ni/Fe-DAC developed in this work displays an ultra-wide active potential window for CO2RR, making it compatible with various oxidation reactions, such as the HMFOR and the EGOR. To improve the reaction efficiencies of HMFOR and EGOR, palladium-loaded nickel foam (Pd-NF) was prepared as the catalyst (Figures S17–S20). The catalytic activities of Pd-NF for HMFOR and EGOR were first assessed in a traditional three-electrodes system. Compared to pure KOH electrolyte, the addition of HMF and EG result in a lower required potential at the same current density (Figures S21 and S22), indicating the faster reaction kinetics than OER.[27] HPLC and NMR analyses reveal that the primary products of HMFOR and EGOR are 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) (Figure S23) and glycolic acid (GA) (Figure S24), respectively. Subsequently, CO2RRj jEGOR and CO2RRj jHMFOR electrochemical systems were evaluated in a flow cell. As shown in Figure 4a, both CO2RRj jEGOR and CO2RRj jHMFOR systems require a lower cell potential than that of CO2RRj jOER system, with a reduction of approximately 200 mV (Figure 4b). It is worth noting that whether in CO2RRj jEGOR or CO2RRj jHMFOR system, nearly 100% FECO is obtained under different current densities (Figures 4c and 4d). For the production of one ton of CO, the energy input required for the CO2RRj jEGOR and CO2RRj jHMFOR systems is reduced by 13.8% and 12.2%, respectively, compared to the CO2RRj jOER system. The wide potential window for CO2RR facilitates the coupling of multiple reactions, enabling efficient resource utilization. Moreover, the wide potential window allows the system to adapt to fluctuations in green power sources. To verify the feasibility, a CO2RRj jHMFOR system was powered by a commercial crystalline silicon (Si) solar cell (Figures 4e and S25). A current of approximately 200 mA is recorded based on Si solar cell system. During a continous three-hour test, nearly 100% FECO and 90% FDCA yield are obtained at the cathode and anode (Figure 4f), respectively, comparable to the test results under stable input current. Therefore, reduction of CO2 under a wide potential window not only enables the coupling of anodic oxidation reactions with

*Figure 4.* a) LSV curves measured in CO2RRj jEGOR, CO2RRj jHMFOR, and CO2RRj jOER systems. b) Comparison of working potentials in different coupled systems. c) FE of CO and GA measured in CO2RRj jEGOR system. d) FE of CO and FDCA measured in CO2RRj jHMFOR system. e) Digital image of solar electricity-driven CO2RRj jHMFOR system, and f) corresponding FE of CO and yield of FDCA.

15213757, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202502846 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte*

different overpotentials but also adapts to fluctuations in renewable electricity, highlighting its promising application potential.

To better understand the catalytic mechanism, DFT calculations were performed. Based on the previous HAADF-STEM and XAS results, model of NiN4 and FeN4 sites bridged with 2 nitrogen (NiN4-FeN4) was constructed to represent the Ni/Fe dual metal-atom catalysts, independent NiN4 and FeN4 models represent the Ni-SAC and Fe-SAC (Figures 5a–c). During the calculation, using Ni@NiN4-FeN4 and Fe@NiN4-FeN4 represent the Ni and Fe sites in NiN4- FeN4 structure. Bader charge analysis was first conducted to explore the electronic properties of Ni and Fe sites. As shown in Figures 5a–c, the Bader charges of the Ni and Fe atoms in NiN4-FeN4 are calculated to be 0.80 e and 1.13 e, respectively, both of which are lower than those in NiN4 (0.83 e) and FeN4 (1.14 e). The lower Bader charge implies lower electron density, which has been demonstrated to be beneficial for the adsorption of CO2 and intermediates.[28] In addition, the PDOS analysis reveal that the d-band centers of Ni ( 1.71 eV) and Fe ( 0.81 eV) in NiN4-FeN4 are shifted positively compared to those of the independent NiN4 ( 1.80 eV) and FeN4 ( 1.04 eV) (Figures 5d and S26). This shift confirms the weak interaction between the Ni and Fe atoms in NiN4-FeN4, causing charge migration and rearrangement. Then, the Gibbs free energy changes (ΔG) for CO2RR occur on each site were calculated. As revealed in Figure 5e, the rate-limiting step (RLS) on the Ni sites is CO2 adsorption, while the RLS on the Fe sites is \*CO desorption. The limiting potential (UL) for Ni@NiN4-FeN4, NiN4, Fe@NiN4-FeN4, and FeN4 are calculated to be 1.01, 1.11, 1.14, and 1.17 V, respectively (Figure S27). The Ni

*Figure 5.* DFT calculations. Theoretical models and Bader charge of metal centers for a) NiN4-FeN4, b) NiN4 and c) FeN4. d) PDOS of Ni@NiN4- FeN4 and NiN4. Gibbs free energy profiles for e) CO2RR and f) HER on Ni@NiN4-FeN4, Fe@NiN4-FeN4, NiN4, and FeN4. g) The differences in UL between CO2RR and HER. h) Gibbs free energy profiles for CO2RR at different applied potentials occur on Ni@NiN4-FeN4. i) The UL values of Ni@NiN4-FeN4 and NiN4 at different applied potentials.

sites exhibit a lower UL value than the Fe sites, indicating that CO2RR is more likely to occur on the Ni sites. Since HER is the competing reaction for CO2RR, the Gibbs free energy for HER was also calculated (Figures 5f and S28). The HER UL for Ni@NiN4-FeN4, NiN4, Fe@NiN4-FeN4, and FeN4 are 1.42, 1.39, 0.57, and 0.54 V, respectively. Therefore, the UL(CO2RR)—UL(HER) for Ni@NiN4-FeN4, NiN4, Fe@NiN4-FeN4, and FeN4 are calculated as 0.41, 0.28, 0.57, and 0.63 V, respectively (Figure 5g). Ni@NiN4-FeN4 and NiN4 show a positive value of UL(CO2RR)—UL(HER), while Fe@NiN4-FeN4 and FeN4 show a negative value, suggesting that Ni sites possess higher catalytic activity for CO2RR than Fe sites.[29] Moreover, Ni@NiN4-FeN4 presents a more positive UL(CO2RR)—UL(HER) value than NiN4, demonstrating superior selectivity toward CO production.[30]

To dynamically study the CO2 reduction occured at different potentials, grand-canonical DFT (GC-DFT) calculations were applied to confirm the Gibbs free energy for CO2RR at different applied potentials (Figures S29–S32).[31] It can be found that, as the potential becomes more negative, the free energy change for CO2 adsorption on all metal sites gradually decreases (Figure 5h). This change can be ascribed to the enhanced interaction between the CO2 dipole and the surface electric field.[32] In contrast, CO desorption is less affected by the potential. As a result, the RLS varies at different applied potentials. When the applied potential drops below 0.5 V, the RLS on Ni@NiN4-FeN4 and NiN4 shifts from CO2 adsorption to \*COOH formation. By comparing the UL(CO2RR) of Ni@NiN4-FeN4 and NiN4 at various applied potentials, Ni@NiN4-FeN4 exhibits lower values (Figure 5i), thereby broadening the active potential window. In addition, the charge density differences demonstrate the charge transfer occurring between the Ni and Fe atoms (Figure S33). The difference in electronegativity between two metals induces electron flow from metal with lower electronegativity to that with higher electronegativity, leading to charge redistribution. In the Ni/Fe dual metalatom catalyst, the electronegativities of Ni and Fe are 1.91 and 1.83, respectively. In this system, Fe serves as an electron reservoir, helping to stabilize Ni in its lower oxidation state, which conductive to enhance the CO2RR activity.[33] All the calculation results indicate that CO2RR is more likely to occur on the Ni sites than on the Fe sites. The RLS is not fixed and varies with the applied potential, and the synergistic effect between Ni and Fe atoms contribute to reduce the UL (CO2RR), thereby promoting CO2 reduction.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, a Ni/Fe dua metal-atom catalyst is synthesized to facilitate the reduction of CO2 to CO, achieving nearly 100% FECO across an ultra-wide potential window of 1.6 V, along with a maximum CO partial current density of 608.2 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . After 100 h of continuous working at a constant current density of 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the overpotential remains stable, and the FECO maintains above 98%, demonstrating exceptional long-term stability. When coupled CO2RR with anodic EGOR or HMFOR, the cell potential drops by approximately 200 mV. Moreover, nearly 100% FECO and 90% FDCA yield are simultaneously achieved in a solar electricity-driven CO2RRj jHMFOR system. Theoretical calculations indicate that the synergistic interaction between Ni and Fe atoms reduces the Bader charge and shifts the d-band center of the metal sites, which conductive to the adsorption of CO2 and intermediates. GC-DFT calculations reveal a shift in the rate-limiting step under varying applied potentials, with the Ni Fe synergy lowering the limiting energy barrier at various applied potentials. This study offers a promising strategy for preparing high-activity catalysts with broad potential windows, advancing the development of catalysts capable of operating under complex and fluctuating conditions.

### *Acknowledgements*

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC: 52173205, 42171268) and NSFC Young Scientists Fund (22208213). We thank the beamline BL14W1 and BL15U1 of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and BL11 U of Hefei Synchrotron Radiation Facility for providing the beam time. The computations in this paper were run on the π 2.0 cluster supported by the Center for High Performance Computing at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. We thank the support from the Instrumental Analysis Center of SJTU.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** carbon dioxide reduction **·** wide potential window **·** industrial current density **·** biomass oxidation **·** fluctuations

- [1] a) J. E. Huang, F. Li, A. Ozden, A. Sedighian Rasouli, F. P. García de Arquer, S. Liu, S. Zhang, M. Luo, X. Wang, Y. Lum, *Science* **2021**, *372*, [1074–1078;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abg6582) b) Z.-M. Zhang, T. Wang, Y.-C. Cai, X.-Y. Li, J.-Y. Ye, Y. Zhou, N. Tian, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2024**, *7*, [807–817.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-024-01179-4)
- [2] a) C. Zhan, F. Dattila, C. Rettenmaier, A. Herzog, M. Herran, T. Wagner, F. Scholten, A. Bergmann, N. López, B. Roldan Cuenya, *Nat. Energy* **2024**, 1–12; b) X. She, L. Zhai, Y. Wang, P. Xiong, M. M.-J. Li, T.-S. Wu, M. C. Wong, X. Guo, Z. Xu, H. Li, H. Xu, Y. Zhu, S. C. E. Tsang, S. P. Lau, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-023-01415-4) [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-023-01415-4)* **2024**, *9*, 81–91; c) X. Chen, J. Chen, N. M. Alghoraibi, D. A. Henckel, R. Zhang, U. O. Nwabara, K. E. Madsen, P. J. Kenis, S. C. Zimmerman, A. A. Gewirth, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 20–27; d) Y. Wu, Z. Jiang, X. Lu, Y. Liang, H. Wang, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1760-8)* **2019**, *575*, [639–642](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1760-8).

15213757, 2025, 20, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202502846 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [3] a) J. Gu, C.-S. Hsu, L. Bai, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *[Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaw7515)* **2019**, *364*, [1091–1094](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aaw7515); b) D. S. Laitar, P. Müller, J. P. Sadighi, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja0566679) Chem. Soc.* **2005**, *127*, [17196–17197;](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja0566679) c) W. Gao, Y. Xu, L. Fu, X. Chang, B. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, [885–894;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-023-01002-6) d) Q. Wang, M. Dai, H. Li, Y. R. Lu, T. S. Chan, C. Ma, K. Liu, J. Fu, W. Liao, S. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300695.
- [4] a) F. Ye, S. Zhang, Q. Cheng, Y. Long, D. Liu, R. Paul, Y. Fang, Y. Su, L. Qu, L. Dai, C. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2040; b) C. Lu, P. Shi, S. Huang, C. Yang, J. Zhu, J. Zhang, C. Ke, Y. Su, X. Zhuang, T. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, e202423263.
- [5] a) S. Back, M. S. Yeom, Y. Jung, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00462)* **2015**, *5*, 5089– [5096;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00462) b) J. Rosen, G. S. Hutchings, Q. Lu, S. Rivera, Y. Zhou, D. G. Vlachos, F. Jiao, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, [4293–4299](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b00840); c) W. Luc, C. Collins, S. Wang, H. Xin, K. He, Y. Kang, F. Jiao, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b10435) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [1885–1893;](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b10435) d) F. Xie, Z. Wang, C. W. Kao, J. Lan, Y. R. Lu, Y. Tan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202407661; e) K. Liu, W. A. Smith, T. Burdyny, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.9b00137) Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, [639–643](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.9b00137).
- [6] S. Sung, D. Kumar, M. Gil-Sepulcre, M. Nippe, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b07709) Soc.* **2017**, *139*, [13993–13996.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b07709)
- [7] a) L. Wang, W. Chen, D. Zhang, Y. Du, R. Amal, S. Qiao, J. Wu, Z. Yin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, [5310–5349](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00163H); b) T. Zheng, K. Jiang, N. Ta, Y. Hu, J. Zeng, J. Liu, H. Wang, *[Joule](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.10.015)* **2019**, *3*, [265–278;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2018.10.015) c) S. Shu, T. Song, C. Wang, H. Dai, L. Duan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, e202405650; d) C. Yue, X. Yang, X. Zhang, S. Wang, W. Xu, R. Chen, J. Wang, J. Yin, Y. Huang, X. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2401448.
- [8] F. Chang, K. Zhu, C. Liu, J. Wei, S. Yang, Q. Zhang, L. Yang, X. Wang, Z. Bai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, 2400893.
- [9] a) T. Möller, W. Ju, A. Bagger, X. Wang, F. Luo, T. N. Thanh, A. S. Varela, J. Rossmeisl, P. Strasser, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE02662A) Sci.* **2019**, *12*, [640–647;](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE02662A) b) D. Chen, F. Wang, Y. Liu, W. Lyu, X. Zhao, R. Fang, L. Chen, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, e202421149.
- [10] a) T. Wang, J. Wang, C. Lu, K. Jiang, S. Yang, Z. Ren, J. Zhang, X. Liu, L. Chen, X. Zhuang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2205553; b) Y. Chen, J. Zhang, J. Tian, Y. Guo, F. Xu, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, L. Yang, Q. Wu, Z. Hu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214658; c) D.-D. Ma, S.-G. Han, C. Cao, W. Wei, X. Li, B. Chen, X.-T. Wu, Q.-L. Zhu, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE03731A) Sci.* **2021**, *14*, [1544–1552.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0EE03731A)
- [11] T. Zheng, K. Jiang, H. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1802066. [12] C. Liang, Y. Chen, M. Wu, K. Wang, W. Zhang, Y. Gan, H.
- Huang, J. Chen, Y. Xia, J. Zhang, S. Zheng, H. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 119.
- [13] K. Won, E. Jeong, J. Yoon, D. Jeon, J. Hong, H. Yoo, Y. Bang, P. K. Srivastava, B. Singh, H. M. Jeong, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, 2413732.
- [14] X. Rong, H. J. Wang, X. L. Lu, R. Si, T. B. Lu, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201912458) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *132*, [1977–1981](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201912458).
- [15] Y. Guo, S. Yao, Y. Xue, X. Hu, H. Cui, Z. Zhou, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120997) B* **2022**, *304*, [120997](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120997).
- [16] a) H. Tian, A. Song, P. Zhang, K. Sun, J. Wang, B. Sun, Q. Fan, G. Shao, C. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Li, G. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210714; b) X. Li, C.-S. Cao, S.-F. Hung, Y.-R. Lu, W. Cai, A. I. Rykov, S. Miao, S. Xi, H. Yang, Z. Hu, J. Wang, J. Zhao, E. E. Alp, W. Xu, T.-S. Chan, H. Chen, Q. Xiong, H. Xiao, Y. Huang, J. Li, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *[Chem](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.027)* **2020**, *6*, 3440– [3454.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.027)

- [17] a) Z.-Y. Wu, M. Karamad, X. Yong, Q. Huang, D. A. Cullen, P. Zhu, C. Xia, Q. Xiao, M. Shakouri, F.-Y. Chen, J. Y. Kim, Y. Xia, K. Heck, Y. Hu, M. S. Wong, Q. Li, I. Gates, S. Siahrostami, H. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2870; b) H. Yang, Z. Li, S. Kou, G. Lu, Z. Liu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119270) B* **2020**, *278*, [119270](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119270).
- [18] Y. Li, N. M. Adli, W. Shan, M. Wang, M. J. Zachman, S. Hwang, H. Tabassum, S. Karakalos, Z. Feng, G. Wang, *[Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE00318J) Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, [2108–2119](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE00318J).
- [19] L. Jiao, X. Li, W. Wei, S.-H. Zhou, S.-G. Han, D.-D. Ma, Y. Mao, Q. Xu, X.-T. Wu, Q.-L. Zhu, *Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122638) B* **2023**, *330*, [122638](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2023.122638).
- [20] C. Lu, J. Yang, S. Wei, S. Bi, Y. Xia, M. Chen, Y. Hou, M. Qiu, C. Yuan, Y. Su, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1806884.
- [21] H.-F. Fei, W. Li, A. Bhardwaj, S. Nuguri, A. Ribbe, J. J. Watkins, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [17006–17014](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b09572).
- [22] L. L. Ling, L. Jiao, X. Liu, Y. Dong, W. Yang, H. Zhang, B. Ye, J. Chen, H. L. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2205933.
- [23] H. Yang, L. Shang, Q. Zhang, R. Shi, G. I. Waterhouse, L. Gu, T. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4585.
- [24] H. Kim, D. Shin, W. Yang, D. H. Won, H.-S. Oh, M. W. Chung, D. Jeong, S. H. Kim, K. H. Chae, J. Y. Ryu, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c11008) Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [925–933.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c11008)
- [25] a) C. Cao, D.-D. Ma, J. Jia, Q. Xu, X.-T. Wu, Q.-L. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008631; b) K. Xie, A. Ozden, R. K. Miao, Y. Li, D. Sinton, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3070; c) M. A. Bajada, S. Roy, J. Warnan, K. Abdiaziz, A. Wagner, M. M. Roessler, E. Reisner, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202002680) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [15633–15641](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202002680).
- [26] a) Y. Qin, Y. Wang, G. Jin, X. Tong, N. Yang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2402429; b) C. Lu, Q. He, S. Huang, P. Shi, C. Yang, J. Zhang, J. Zhu, J. Zhang, T. Wang, X. Zhuang, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2415092.
- [27] A. Pei, P. Wang, S. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Jiang, Z. Chen, W. Zhou, Q. Qin, R. Liu, R. Du, Z. Li, Y. Qiu, K. Yan, L. Gu, J. Ye, G. I. N. Waterhouse, W.-H. Huang, C.-L. Chen, Y. Zhao, G. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 5899.
- [28] a) S. Mo, X. Zhao, S. Li, L. Huang, X. Zhao, Q. Ren, M. Zhang, R. Peng, Y. Zhang, X. Zhou, Y. Fan, Q. Xie, Y. Guo, D. Ye, Y. Chen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202313868; b) H. Jin, K. Zhou, R. Zhang, H. Cui, Y. Yu, P. Cui, W. Song, C. Cao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2494.
- [29] a) J. Jia, Z. Zhang, A. Wang, Y. Liu, Z. Liu, J. Wang, Y. Guo, L. Peng, J. Li, J. Robertson, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2412056; b) C. Wang, Z. Lv, Y. Liu, R. Liu, C. Sun, J. Wang, L. Li, X. Liu, X. Feng, W. Yang, B. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202404015.
- [30] H. Cheng, X. Wu, M. Feng, X. Li, G. Lei, Z. Fan, D. Pan, F. Cui, G. He, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, [12673–12681.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c02319)
- [31] N. V. Tran, J. Liu, S. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202411765.
- [32] K. Chan, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5954.
- [33] H. B. Yang, S.-F. Hung, S. Liu, K. Yuan, S. Miao, L. Zhang, X. Huang, H.-Y. Wang, W. Cai, R. Chen, J. Gao, X. Yang, W. Chen, Y. Huang, H. M. Chen, C. M. Li, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *[Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-017-0078-8) Energy* **2018**, *3*, [140–147](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-017-0078-8).

Manuscript received: February 4, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: February 24, 2025 Version of record online: March 6, 2025