---
source: Shi 等 - 2025 - Engineering Oxygen Intermediates Adsorption on Amorphous NiFe Alloys for Highly Active and Selective.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.127s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:54:53.507932Z
---

# *Forschungsartikel*

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202424345 [doi.org/10.1002/anie.202424345](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202424345)

# **Engineering Oxygen Intermediates Adsorption on Amorphous NiFe Alloys for Highly Active and Selective Electrochemical Biomass Conversion**

*Lei Shi+ , Weizheng Cai+ , Feng Zhang<sup>+</sup> , Siqi Li, Xinyang Liu, Yunyi Liu, Peidong Ren, Bin Li,\* Song Liu,\* and [Bin](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-4685-2052) Liu\**

**Abstract:** Electrochemical 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) oxidation reaction (HMFOR) offers a promising route to transform biomass into value-added chemicals. However, the competing oxygen evolution reaction (OER) greatly limits the HMFOR selectivity. Herein, we report a facile doping strategy to engineer oxygen intermediates adsorption on amorphous NiFe alloys to boost highly selective electrochemical HMF oxidation to produce 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), among which, amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy displays a low HMFOR onset potential of 1.35 V *vs.* RHE, achieving 100% HMF conversion with 88% FDCA selectivity at an applied potential of 1.4 V *vs.* RHE, outperforming amorphous NiFeB (73% FDCA selectivity) and Mo-doped NiFeB (65% FDCA selectivity) alloys. Experimental characterizations suggest that the introduction of Mn/Mo into amorphous NiFeB alloy can increase/decrease its electronic density and thus strengthen/weaken oxygen intermediates adsorption. *Operando* experiments indicate that the amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy can significantly reduce the onset potential to form active Ni3<sup>+</sup> species, which spontaneously react with HMF via nucleophile dehydrogenation to form FDCA. Furthermore, *in situ* infrared spectroscopy measurements verify that the HMF oxidation pathway follows the 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA) route rather than the 2,5-diformyfuran (DFF) route.

#### *Introduction*

5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), a key biomass-derived platform molecule, can be electrochemically converted into value-added chemicals, such as 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF), 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA), 2,5-furandimethanol

[\*] Dr. L. Shi,<sup>+</sup> Dr. F. Zhang,<sup>+</sup> Dr. S. Li, Dr. X. Liu, Dr. Y. Liu, Dr. P. Ren, B. Li, Prof. S. Liu

Chemical Engineering and Resource Utilization Northeast Forestry University Harbin 150001, P. R. China E-mail: libinzh62@163.com

carlosliusong@nefu.edu.cn

Prof. B. Liu

Department of Materials Science and Engineering City University of Hong Kong Hong Kong SAR 999077, China

E-mail: bliu48@cityu.edu.hk

Prof. B. Liu

Department of Chemistry, Hong Kong Institute of Clean Energy (HKICE) & Center of Super-Diamond and Advanced Films (COSDAF)

City University of Hong Kong Hong Kong SAR 999077, China

Dr. W. Cai+

Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Micro/Nano-Porous Functional Materials, Department of Materials Science and Engineering Southern University of Science and Technology Shenzhen 518055, China

<sup>+</sup>] Lei Shi, Weizheng Cai, and Feng Zhang contributed equally to this work.

(BHMF), 2,5-dimethylfuran (DMF) and so on, which offers a promising strategy to alleviate the global energy crisis and environmental challenges.[1] Specifically, FDCA can react with ethylene glycol to make biodegradable plastic poly(2,5 furanedioic acid glycol ester) (PEF).[2] However, during the electrochemical HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR), the competing oxygen evolution reaction (OER) greatly limits the HMF-to-FDCA conversion selectivity.[3]

To tackle this challenge, the HMFOR mechanism needs to be first understood. Oxygen intermediates have been identified to play an important role in both HMFOR and OER.[4] For HMFOR, Zou et al. revealed that the introduction of Ni into Pt could modulate the d-band center of Pt, which facilitated the adsorption of HMF on Pt and at the same time boosted OH adsorption on Ni sites.[5] Huang and co-workers achieved HMF oxidation at high current densities by in situ construction of Ni3S2/NiOx with controllable compositions, which balanced competitive HMF and OH adsorption on the catalyst's surface.[6] For OER, Liu et al. enhanced the binding strength of metal hydroxides to OHads by a facile ball-milling method. The tensile strain induced in metal hydroxides could upshift the d-band center and make the anti-bonding states less filled, which contributed to improved OER activity including earlier OER onset potential and faster current growth.[7] Furthermore, Liu et al. developed a general method for operando probing OER intermediates under real working conditions. The exceptional generality of this method was demonstrated in different reaction mediums (alkaline and acidic) and on different types of materials (oxides and hydroxides).[8]

Obviously, the roles of oxygen intermediates in HMFOR and OER are different (the oxygen intermediates will react with HMF in HMFOR, competing with OER).[9] Thus, it is crucial to modulate the adsorption of oxygen intermediates on the catalyst's surface to realize highly active and selective electrochemical HMFOR.

In this work, we design and develop amorphous transition-metal-doped NiFe alloys for HMFOR. The amorphous structure of NiFe alloys can not only provide a large number of catalytically active sites for electrocatalysis but also allow for easy composition modulation to tune the electronic structure. In particular, the introduction of Mn/ Mo into amorphous NiFe alloys can strengthen/weaken oxygen intermediates adsorption, which in turn boosts/ hinders HMFOR and suppresses/promotes OER. Following this design approach, the amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst achieves excellent electrochemical HMFOR performance with a low HMFOR onset potential of 1.35 V *vs.* RHE, achieving 100% HMF conversion with 88% FDCA selectivity at an applied potential of 1.4 V *vs.* RHE.

#### *Results and Discussion*

Amorphous NiFe alloy catalysts were synthesized by a solution chemical method at room temperature. As shown in Figure 1a and b, both scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images revealed interconnected nanoparticles with an average size of 50 nm. The selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns (inset in Figure 1c and S1) displayed diffusive rings. The bright inner ring in the SAED pattern, along with X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis (Figure 1e), confirmed the formation of an amorphous structure. Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) mapping revealed a uniform distribution of Mn, Ni, Fe, and B elements in the as-prepared amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy (Figure 1d). The doping amount of Mn and Mo were determined by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) and the results are shown in Table S2. The chemical compositions and elemental states of the amorphous NiFe alloy catalysts were determined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figure 1f). As displayed in Figure 1g, the high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra could be deconvoluted into Ni<sup>0</sup> (852.7 eV) and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (855.6 and 873.0 eV) species.[10] The O 1s XPS spectra could be deconvoluted into two peak groups assignable to lattice oxygen (531.2 eV) and adsorbed oxygen (532.4 eV), respectively (Figure 1h).[11] It was observed that the ratio of lattice oxygen to adsorbed oxygen could be altered by introducing Mn/Mo into the NiFe alloy. As shown in the valence band spectra (Figure 1i), it was evident that the valence band of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB, NiFeB, and Mo-doped NiFeB catalysts all converged to the Fermi level, confirming the alloy state of the catalysts. Notably, the amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB sample displayed the highest electron density near the Fermi level (EF).

The electrochemical OER and HMFOR performance of the as-prepared amorphous NiFe alloy catalysts was examined in an H-type cell filled with 1 M KOH aqueous solution (pH=14) without and with HMF (5 mM). As shown in Figure 2a and Figure S4, the amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst exhibited the highest OER onset potential with the smallest OER current density beyond 1.45 V *vs.* RHE in 1 M KOH aqueous solution as compared to amorphous NiFe and Mo-doped NiFe alloy catalysts. If 5 mM HMF was introduced into the KOH electrolyte, the onset potential over amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst significantly shifted to 1.35 V *vs.* RHE, indicating that the oxidation of HMF was much more preferable than OER on amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy surface. Note that the electrochemical HMFOR activity of the nickel foam substrate is negligible (Figure S5). Among the various studied amorphous NiFe alloy catalysts, amorphous Mndoped NiFeB alloy catalyst showed the highest HMFOR activity with the largest potential difference between HMFOR and OER (Figure 2b). The Tafel slope of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy derived from the LSV curve was much smaller than that of amorphous NiFeB alloy and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy. In general, a lower Tafel slope indicates a faster reaction kinetics and a higher catalytic efficiency (Figure 2c). To compare the intrinsic catalytic activity, we obtained the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) by recording the voltammetric curves in the non-Faraday region at different sweep rates and then calculated the electrochemically active surface area (Figure S6). As displayed in Figure 2d, the three samples showed comparable Cdl values, indicating that the performance discrepancy should not originate from the different quantities of active sites. According to the Nyquist plots at 1.45 V *vs.* RHE (Figure 2e), the Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst exhibited a lower interfacial electron transfer resistance (*R*ct), which was conducive to the occurrence of an electrocatalytic process.

Constant potential electrochemical oxidation of HMF to FDCA was studied at 1.4 V *vs.* RHE in an H-cell separated by a Nafion proton exchange membrane (Nafion 117). The concentration of HMF and its oxidation products in the anode compartment was monitored by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Figure 2f presented the conversion of HMF and the yield of HMF oxidation products over an amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst. Notably, the added HMF could be selectively converted to FDCA within 3 hours. The slight mismatch between the conversion of HMF and the yield of FDCA could be attributed to the polymerization of HMF to form nondegradable humins in a strong alkali system (pH *>*13) (Figure S7 and S8).[12] Compared to amorphous NiFeB and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy catalysts, amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst achieved a remarkable HMF conversion (97.2%) with FDCA yield and Faradaic efficiency reaching 86.6% and 94.2%, respectively (Figure 2g). Besides excellent catalytic activity, the amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst also displayed outstanding catalytic durability. After three successive HMFOR electrocatalytic cycles, the HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faradaic efficiency could be well maintained (Figure 2h). Meanwhile, the HMFOR could be coupled with HER to simultaneously produce H2 and FDCA at a current density of 30 mA/cm2

*Figure 1.* Structural and morphological characterizations. (a-d) SEM, TEM, HRTEM images, and EDX elemental mapping of the as-prepared amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst. (e) XRD patterns of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy (top), NiFeB alloy (middle), and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy (bottom). (f) XPS survey spectra of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy (top), NiFeB alloy (middle), and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy (bottom). (g-h) Ni 2p and O 1s XPS spectra of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy (top), NiFeB alloy (middle), and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy (bottom). (i) Valence band spectra for amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy, NiFeB alloy, and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy. Inset in panel c shows the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern.

and a cell voltage of as low as 1.61 V (Figure 2i and S11). FDCA has a low solubility in water (0.1 g/100 mL H2O) and is almost insoluble in acid, which provides the possibility for crystallization and separation of FDCA from the electrolyte. If the pH of the electrolyte after electrochemical reaction was adjusted to ~3.0, after cooling to 0 °C, FDCA could precipitate out from the electrolyte, and white FDCA solids could be obtained after filtration (Figure S12).

To understand the greatly enhanced HMFOR activity on amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy, cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements were first conducted in 1 M KOH electrolyte. Among the three prepared amorphous NiFe alloys, amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy displayed a redox peak at the lowest anodic potential (Figure 3a) resulting from the strongest \*OH adsorption as verified by electrochemical methanol oxidation experiments (Figure S13 and Figure 3b).[13] To further explore the HMF oxidation mechanism (direct oxidation vs. indirect oxidation) over the amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst, the proton and electron transfer in the HMFOR were investigated (Figure 3c and S14). As shown in Figure 3c, the Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst was first electrooxidized in 1 M KOH aqueous solution at 1.5 VRHE to accumulate high-valent nickel species (Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O-OH). Subsequently, the applied

*Figure 2.* Electrochemical performance. (a) Linear sweep voltammetry curves of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst recorded in 1 M KOH solution (pH=14) with and without HMF (5 mM) at a scan rate of 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> . (b) The potential difference between HMFOR and OER over different amorphous NiFe alloy catalysts at a current density of 10 mA/cm2 . (c) Tafel slopes for HMFOR. (d) The double layer capacitance. (e) Nyquist plots recorded in 1 M KOH solution with 5 mM HMF. (f) Conversion of HMF, yield of HMF oxidation products over amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst at 1.4 V *vs.* RHE for 3 h. (g) Conversion of HMF, yield of FDCA, and FDCA Faradaic efficiency recorded over different amorphous NiFe alloy catalysts at 1.4 V *vs.* RHE. (h) Conversion of HMF, yield of FDCA, and FDCA Faradaic efficiency over Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst at 1.4 V *vs.* RHE for three successive HMFOR cycles. (i) LSV curves of Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst in 50 mL of 1 M KOH with or without 20 mM HMF in a single electrolyzer.

anodic potential was removed. After resting the catalyst at open circuit potential (OCP) for some time, an anodic potential (0.95 VRHE) was applied again. Immediately, there displayed a large reduction current at 0.95 VRHE, which was attributed to the electroreduction of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (Figure 3d). However, if the same experiment was performed again with addition of HMF during catalyst resting at OCP or in the presence of HMF, the reduction current became negligible at 0.95 VRHE, suggesting that electrons and protons were spontaneously transferred from HMF to NiOOH during HMFOR (Figure S14).[8,14] As shown in Figure 3d, a large number of Ni3<sup>+</sup> species could be generated over the Mndoped NiFeB alloy catalyst at 1.5 VRHE (Figure 3d).[15] The percentage of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species decreased significantly once the applied anodic potential reduced to 0.95 VRHE. On the contrary, with presence of HMF (regardless added midway or existing from the beginning) at 1.5 VRHE, the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> content was much lower over the Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst as compared to the condition without HMF at 1.5 VRHE (Figure 3e and f), which suggested that the high-valence Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species could spontaneously react with HMF to produce FDCA.

*Figure 3.* (a) OER polarization curves of amorphous alloy catalysts. The catalyst loading amount is 0.075 mg/cm<sup>2</sup> . (b) The relationship between ΔE\*OH and the d-band-center over various NiFe alloy catalysts. (c) Multipotential step curves of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst recorded in 1 M KOH solution before and after injecting 0.5 M HMF. (d-f) High-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra for amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst under different conditions.

To better understand the HMFOR process, in situ Raman spectroscopy measurements were conducted (Figure 4a and 4b). Recorded in 1 M KOH electrolyte without HMF, two distinct vibration peaks at 464 cm <sup>1</sup> and 532 cm <sup>1</sup> were observed on amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst at low applied anodic potentials, which could be assigned to Ni-O stretching in Ni(OH)2. [16] Beyond 1.3 V *vs.* RHE, these characteristic peaks shifted to 477 cm <sup>1</sup> and 553 cm <sup>1</sup> , corresponding to the Eg bending vibration (δ(Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> -O)) and A1g stretching vibration (ν(Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O)) of Ni3<sup>+</sup>-O-OH,[17] indicating oxidation of Ni2<sup>+</sup> to Ni3<sup>+</sup>. For amorphous NiFeB and Mo-doped NiFeB alloy samples, the position of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> transition was observed at higher anodic potentials (Figure S18, S19 and S20), aligning well with the LSV results. Upon addition of HMF into the KOH electrolyte during in situ Raman spectroscopy measurements, the formation of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> was not detected, possibly due to the rapid reduction of the formed Ni3<sup>+</sup> species by HMF. To probe the evolution of nickel species during HMFOR, we first recorded the Raman spectrum of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst at 1.3 V *vs.* RHE in 1 M KOH, followed by adding HMF. As displayed in Figure 4b, an obvious Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> conversion to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> was observed in the in situ Raman spectra following the addition of HMF into the KOH electrolyte. These results further confirmed that the Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst surface exhibited enhanced interaction with oxygenated species and promoted the reconstruction of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>-OH to form Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O at lower

potentials. To elucidate the reaction mechanism of electrochemical HMFOR, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy measurements were performed. As shown in Figure S21a, without HMF, the peak decrease in the frequency region of 10<sup>0</sup> to 10<sup>2</sup> Hz represented oxidation of the electrocatalyst (Ni2<sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>) at 1.3 V *vs.* RHE. Another peak started to appear at 1.5 V *vs.* RHE in the low-frequency region (10 <sup>1</sup> 10<sup>0</sup> Hz) and this peak shifted toward a lower phase angle with increasing anodic potential, indicating onset of OER. In contrast, with HMF (Figure S21b), a peak appeared at 1.25 V *vs.* RHE in the low-frequency region, which corresponded to the occurrence of HMFOR. An additional peak related to OER was observed at 1.5 V *vs.* RHE. These results indicated more favorable HMFOR kinetics.[18] There are two possible reaction pathways for the HMFOR involving the oxidation of aldehyde and hydroxyl functional groups in HMF (Figure S22). To explore the reaction path of HMFOR, the oxidation of the hydroxyl group and aldehyde group over the Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst was first studied by using the electrooxidation of the simplified substrates furfuryl alcohol (FA) and furfural (FF) (Figure 4c). The current density of FF oxidation is higher than that of FA, revealing that the conversion of aldehyde to carboxyl group occurs prior to that of hydroxyl to aldehyde group.[19] To clarify the routes more precisely, advanced in situ detecting technique should be applied. Figure 4d-f showed the operando ATR-FTIR spectra recorded at varying applied anodic potentials in KOH + HMF electro-

*Figure 4.* (a) In situ Raman spectra recorded in 1 M KOH over amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst at different applied potentials. (b) In situ Raman spectra recorded over amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst at 1.3 V *vs.* RHE after adding HMF to the KOH electrolyte. (c) LSV curves of amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy catalyst obtained in 1.0 M KOH with 30 mM FF and FA. (d-f) In situ infrared spectra recorded over various as-prepared NiFe alloys at different applied potentials for HMFOR. (g) Schematic diagram explaining how transition-metal doping into amorphous NiFe alloy affects HMFOR.

lyte. A new characteristic peak (1214 cm <sup>1</sup> ) emerged at an applied anodic potential of 1.15 V *vs.* RHE, which could be assigned to -OOH in Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O-OH (Figure 4d and 4e).[20] It is worth mentioning that the -OOH vibrational peak appeared at a lower anodic potential on amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy than amorphous NiFeB and Mo-doped NiFeB alloys, resulting from the stronger oxygen intermediates adsorption on amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy surface. Furthermore, only HMF bands at 1658 and 1507 cm <sup>1</sup> were detected at anodic potentials less than 1.3 V *vs.* RHE. Above 1.3 V *vs.* RHE, typical fork-shaped bands associated with HMFCA were detectable at 1372 and 1343 cm <sup>1</sup> , indicating that the aldehyde group of HMF was preferentially oxidized. As the applied anodic potential increased, FDCA bands at 1546 and 1517 cm <sup>1</sup> appeared.[21] The operando ATR-FTIR results suggested that the electrochemical HMFOR on amorphous NiFe alloys proceeded predominantly through the HMFCA pathway (Figure S22). Doping of Mn into amorphous NiFe alloy greatly strengthened the adsorption of oxygen intermediates on amorphous Mn-doped NiFeB alloy surface and thus reduced the onset potential to generate active Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O-OH, which spontaneously oxidized HMF to produce FDCA.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we have engineered the oxygen intermediates adsorption on amorphous NiFe alloys via a simple doping strategy. Mn-doping into amorphous NiFe alloy has been found to effectively increase the surface electron density, leading to enhanced adsorption of oxygen intermediates to generate active Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>-O-OH for HMFOR. As a result, the amorphous Mn-doped NiFe alloy exhibits excellent

15213757, 2025, 18, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202424345 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte Chemie*

HMFOR performance, displaying exceptionally high HMF conversion (100%), FDCA yield (88%), Faradaic efficiency (99%), and cycling stability at 1.4 V *vs.* RHE. Our findings shall open up new possibilities for optimizing electrocatalysis via engineering reactive intermediates adsorption.

## *Supporting Information*

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## *Acknowledgements*

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22208048 and 22478067), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (2572022AW28), the Natural Science Foundation of Heilongjiang Province (YQ2022B001), the Young Elite Scientists Sponsorship Program by CAST (YESS20210262), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (2572023CT10), the City University of Hong Kong startup fund (9020003), ITF-RTH-Global STEM Professorship (9446006), and JC STEM lab of Advanced CO2 Upcycling (9228005). We would like to acknowledge the technical support from the Analysis and Testing Center of Northeast Forestry University

## *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Electrocatalysis **·** Alloying **·** Oxygenated species adsorption **·** 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation

- [1] a) D. G. Boucher, E. Carroll, Z. A. Nguyen, R. G. Jadhav, O. Simoska, K. Beaver, S. D. Minteer, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202307780; b) R. Li, K. Xiang, Z. Peng, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102292; c) J. Wu, X. Yang, M. Gong, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, [2966–2986;](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(22)64121-4) d) L. F. T. Novaes, J. Liu, Y. Shen, L. Lu, J. M. Meinhardt, S. Lin, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CS00223F) Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, [7941–8002](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1CS00223F); e) M. T. Bender, X. Yuan, M. K. Goetz, K.-S. Choi, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, [12349–12368](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c03606); f) M. Yang, Z. Yuan, R. Peng, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1002/eem2.12295) Mater.* **2022**, *5*, [1117–1138;](https://doi.org/10.1002/eem2.12295) g) Y. Fan, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *[Sci.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scib.2023.09.024) Bull.* **2023**, *68*, [2695–2699.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scib.2023.09.024)
- [2] a) L. Guo, X. Zhang, L. Gan, L. Pan, C. Shi, Z. F. Huang, X. Zhang, J. J. Zou, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *10*, 2205540; b) Y. Gao, L. Ge, H. Xu, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02272)* **2023**, *13*, [11204–11231;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02272) c) S. Li, X. Sun, Z. Yao, X. Zhong, Y. Cao, Y.

- Liang, Z. Wei, S. Deng, G. Zhuang, X. Li, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1904780.
- [3] a) R. Luo, Y. Li, L. Xing, N. Wang, R. Zhong, Z. Qian, C. Du, G. Yin, Y. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2022**, *311*, [121357;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121357) b) D. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Cao, L. Wang, H. Lee, G. Lin, W. Li, G. Ding, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202309478.
- [4] a) B. Zhang, L. Wang, Z. Cao, S. M. Kozlov, F. P. García de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, J. Li, Z. Wang, X. Zheng, L. Zhang, Y. Wen, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, P. De Luna, T. Regier, W. Bi, E. E. Alp, C.-W. Pao, L. Zheng, Y. Hu, Y. Ji, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, L. Cavallo, H. Peng, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-00525-6)* **2020**, *3*, 985– [992](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-020-00525-6); b) J. Zhang, H. B. Yang, D. Zhou, B. Liu, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c01003) Rev.* **2022**, *122*, [17028–17072;](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c01003) c) J. Song, C. Wei, Z.-F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00607A) Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, [2196–2214](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CS00607A).
- [5] J. Wu, Z. Kong, Y. Li, Y. Lu, P. Zhou, H. Wang, L. Xu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *ACS Nano.* **2022**, *16*, [21518–21526](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c10327).
- [6] D. Xiao, X. Bao, D. Dai, Y. Gao, S. Si, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, P. Wang, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, Y. Dai, B. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304133.
- [7] D. Zhou, S. Wang, Y. Jia, X. Xiong, H. Yang, S. Liu, J. Tang, J. Zhang, D. Liu, L. Zheng, Y. Kuang, X. Sun, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *58*, 736–740.
- [8] H. Tao, Y. Xu, X. Huang, J. Chen, L. Pei, J. Zhang, J. G. Chen, B. Liu, *Joule.* **2019**, *3*, [1498–1509.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2019.03.012)
- [9] a) Y. Song, Z. Li, K. Fan, Z. Ren, W. Xie, Y. Yang, M. Shao, M. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2021**, *299*, [120669;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120669) b) Z. Yang, B. Zhang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Appl. Catal. B.* **2023**, *330*.
- [10] a) W. Cai, H. Yang, J. Zhang, H.-C. Chen, H. B. Tao, J. Gao, S. Liu, W. Liu, X. Li, B. Liu, *ACS [Materials](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmaterialslett.0c00146) Lett.* **2020**, *2*, 624– [632](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsmaterialslett.0c00146); b) W. Cai, R. Chen, H. Yang, H. B. Tao, H.-Y. Wang, J. Gao, W. Liu, S. Liu, S.-F. Hung, B. Liu, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00840) Lett.* **2020**, *20*, [4278–4285](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c00840).
- [11] a) X. Li, L. Xiao, L. Zhou, Q. Xu, J. Weng, J. Xu, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, [21106–21113](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202008514); b) C. Morant, J. M. Sanz, L. Galán, L. Soriano, F. Rueda, *[Surf.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(89)90156-8) Sci.* **1989**, *218*, [331–345](https://doi.org/10.1016/0039-6028(89)90156-8).
- [12] N. Han, W. Zhang, W. Guo, H. Pan, B. Jiang, L. Xing, H. Tian, G. Wang, X. Zhang, J. Fransaer, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 185.
- [13] a) H. Shen, H. Shan, L. Liu, *ChemSusChem.* **2019**, *13*, 513–519; b) V. Calderón, J. Carlos, J. S. Arora, S. H. Mushrif, *ACS Omega* **2022**, *7*, 44786–44795; c) H. Wang, L. Xu, J. Wu, P. Zhou, S. Tao, Y. Lu, X. Wu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Chin. J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(22)64203-7)* **2023**, *46*, [148–156](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(22)64203-7).
- [14] R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K.-C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, [550–557](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat3313).
- [15] a) W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Xiao, Z. Wei, S. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. Ma, S. Wang, *Chem.* **2020**, *6*, [2974–2993](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2020.07.022); b) Z. Li, X. Li, H. Zhou, Y. Xu, S.-M. Xu, Y. Ren, Y. Yan, J. Yang, K. Ji, L. Li, M. Xu, M. Shao, X. Kong, X. Sun, H. Duan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5009.
- [16] a) M. Cai, Q. Zhu, X. Wang, Z. Shao, L. Yao, H. Zeng, X. Wu, J. Chen, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209338; b) C. Hu, Y. Hu, C. Fan, L. Yang, Y. Zhang, H. Li, W. Xie, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [19774–19778](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202103888).
- [17] a) X. Liu, X. Wang, C. Mao, J. Qiu, R. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Chen, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202408109; b) B. Gao, X. Mu, J. Feng, H. Huang, J. Liu, W. Liu, Z. Zou, Z. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *n/a*, e202413298.
- [18] a) D. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Cao, L. Wang, H. Lee, G. Lin, W. Li, G. Ding, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202309478; b) S. Li, S. Wang, Y. Wang, J. He, K. Li, Y. Xu, M. Wang, S. Zhao, X. Li, X. Zhong, J. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214488; c) Y. Yang, W. H. Lie, R. R. Unocic, J. A. Yuwono,

# *Forschungsartikel*

- M. Klingenhof, T. Merzdorf, P. W. Buchheister, M. Kroschel, A. Walker, L. C. Gallington, L. Thomsen, P. V. Kumar, P. Strasser, J. A. Scott, N. M. Bedford, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2305573; d) F. Ye, S. Zhang, Q. Cheng, Y. Long, D. Liu, R. Paul, Y. Fang, Y. Su, L. Qu, L. Dai, C. Hu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2040.
- [19] X. Wang, G. Long, B. Liu, Z. Li, W. Gao, P. Zhang, H. Zhang, X. Zhou, R. Duan, W. Hu, C. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202301562.
- [20] a) J. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, G. Rao, C. Wu, Y. Hu, X. Wang, R. Lu, Y. Li, J. Xiong, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201910716) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 17458–
- [17464](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201910716); bY. Xie, Z. Zhou, N. Yang, G. Zhao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102886.
- [21] L. Lu, C. Wen, H. Wang, Y. Li, J. Wu, C. Wang, *J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.05.001)* **2023**, *[424](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2023.05.001)*, 1–8.

Manuscript received: December 12, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: January 28, 2025 Version of record online: April 1, 2025