---
source: Sohail 等 - 2025 - Simultaneous Electrochemical Upgrading of Biomass and CO2 Utilization Using FeNi‐Derived.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 70.950s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:56:04.461033Z
---

Zitierweise: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202501404 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202501404 *Biomass Conversion*

# **Simultaneous Electrochemical Upgrading of Biomass and CO2 Utilization Using Fe/Ni-Derived Carbon Nanotubes Derived from CO2**

*Anousha Sohail, Watinee Nunthakitgoson, Sorasak Klinyod, Anawat Thivasasith, Anittha Prasertsab, Peeranat Chaipornchalerm, Warot Prasanseang, Wanmai Srisuwanno, Poobodin Mano, Somlak Ittisanronnachai, Supawadee Namuangruk, and Chularat Wattanakit\**

**Abstract:** Fossil fuel consumption has caused petroleum shortages and increased carbon emissions; thus, utilizing renewable resources in biorefineries for biomass-derived chemical synthesis is promising. Among them, 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) is a key alternative to terephthalic acid (PTA) for sustainable polyester production. In this work, we demonstrate an efficient approach for the simultaneous production of FDCA while utilizing carbon dioxide (CO2) via an electrochemical approach. Complete electrooxidation of hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) at the anode yields FDCA, while CO2 reduction at the cathode produces valuable compounds such as carbon monoxide (CO). This concurrent HMF electrooxidation and CO2 electroreduction strategy enables high-value chemical production at mild conditions. In addition, we developed efficient single catalysts, FeNi metals supported on CO2-derived multi-walled carbon nanotubes deposited on nickel foam (FeNiCNTs/NF) as both the anode and the cathode for HMF oxidation and CO2 reduction, respectively. Remarkably, faradaic efficiencies reached 99.60% for FDCA (FEFDCA) at the anode and 96.25% for CO (FECO) at the cathode. This study highlights the effective use of synthesized non-noble metals supported on CO2-derived CNTs for integrated biorefinery and CO2 utilization.

#### *Introduction*

Lignocellulosic biomass-derived compounds are electrochemically utilized in a promising and green approach to produce biofuels and chemicals.[\[1\]](#page-9-0) Several lignocellulosic compounds have been electrochemically attained, such as glucose, furfural, and hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF).[\[2,3\]](#page-9-0) In particular, HMF is one of the primary chemicals, which is then upgraded to 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA), 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF), 5-formyl-2 furancarboxylic acid (FFCA), and 2,5-furan dicarboxylic acid (FDCA) via oxidation.[\[4,5\]](#page-9-0) Among them, FDCA is the most interesting candidate due to its similar composition to fossil-derived terephthalic acid monomer, used as a petroleum-based monomer to produce polyethylene terephthalate (PET).[\[6\]](#page-9-0)

[\*] A. Sohail, W. Nunthakitgoson, S. Klinyod, A. Prasertsab, P. Chaipornchalerm, W. Prasanseang, W. Srisuwanno, C. Wattanakit School of Energy Science and Engineering, Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology, Rayong 21210, Thailand E-mail: [chularat.w@vistec.ac.th](mailto:chularat.w@vistec.ac.th)

A. Thivasasith, S. Ittisanronnachai Frontier Research Center (FRC), Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology, Rayong 21210, Thailand

P. Mano, S. Namuangruk National Nanotechnology Center (NANOTEC), National Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA), Pathum Thani 12120, Thailand

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section

Traditionally, FDCA production from HMF involves costly noble metals and harsh conditions, limiting industrial viability. A green approach suggests using economical nonnoble metal catalysts for HMF electrooxidation under mild ambient conditions. Grabowski et al. first studied HMF electrooxidation on Ni(OH)2 electrodes in 1 M KOH at 1 atm, achieving a 70% FDCA yield.[\[7\]](#page-9-0) Further investigation was extended to study the efficiency of transition metal hydroxides, NiOOH, CoOOH, and FeOOH, for FDCA production in alkaline conditions.[\[8\]](#page-9-0) Among them, NiOOH served as the most promising candidate, delivering the complete HMF conversion within a short reaction time with a 96% FDCA yield. Recently, Liu et al.[\[9\]](#page-9-0) employed Fe-Ni-based catalysts in HMF oxidation, eventually improving FDCA yield by up to 98%. Indeed, the electrocatalytic efficiency could be enhanced with bimetallic or trimetallic materials: NiO-Co3O4, [\[10\]](#page-9-0) Ag@NiCo-LDH,[\[11\]](#page-9-0) and NiCoFe LDH,[\[12\]](#page-9-0) giving over 85% FDCA yield with complete HMF conversion. Despite the high demand for inexpensive transition metal-based catalysts, their corrosion vulnerability is problematic. Consequently, conductive supports like carbon nanotubes (CNTs) containing their sp2 carbon structure and efficient electron transport behaviors enhance stability in catalysis.[\[13,14\]](#page-9-0) Zhang et al.[\[15\]](#page-9-0) reported that Ni3N@C achieved a consistent 98% FDCA yield over multiple catalytic cycles, which was attributed to effective Ni3N-carbon interaction that altered the electronic structure of a catalyst, thus preventing aggregation and boosting efficient charge transfer and stability.

Typically, aqueous electrocatalysis involves hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen evolution reactions (OER)

at the cathode and the anode, respectively.[16] Recently, the HMF oxidation reaction (HMFOR) was introduced in watersplitting cells to replace OER and address its slow kinetics and high overpotential requirements.<sup>[17]</sup> Therefore, HMFOR not only increases the energy conversion efficiency of an electrolyzer but also boosts the production of value-added products in a biorefinery scheme.<sup>[18]</sup> Besides biomass upgrading, carbon dioxide reduction reaction (CO<sub>2</sub>RR) is also one of the most interesting research outlines for greenhouse gas utilization. The simultaneous electrooxidation of biomassderived compounds in the anodic compartment and CO<sub>2</sub> electroreduction in the cathodic compartment can increase an electrolyzer's energy conversion efficiency. Typically, CO<sub>2</sub> reduction can take place in the cathodic compartment with competitive HER. The primary challenges in HMFOR and CO<sub>2</sub>RR lie in achieving high selectivity and efficiency for both reactions. The main challenges in HMFOR and CO<sub>2</sub>RR are achieving high selectivity and efficiency, as HMFOR competes with OER, and CO<sub>2</sub>RR faces HER competition. A paired electrolysis setup using cheap transition metal electrocatalysts can address these issues by improving energy efficiency and reaction selectivity. Transition metals decorated CO<sub>2</sub>-derived CNTs serve as electrocatalysts, enabling efficient CO<sub>2</sub> conversion into valuable chemicals like FDCA and CO, simultaneously increasing efficiency while supporting sustainable CO<sub>2</sub> utilization and chemical processes for climate change mitigation. However, the introduction of CNTs at a working electrode together with transition metals alters metals' electronic structure by enhancing the d-electron delocalization, by which they act as an electron donor, [19-21] transferring electrons to the antibonding orbitals of CO2, which facilitates the activation and reduction of CO<sub>2</sub>, eventually inhibiting HER,<sup>[22]</sup> while also providing support and efficient charge transfer to active metals.<sup>[23]</sup> Thus, optimizing the cathodic potential range is vital for maximizing yield and minimizing energy consumption in electrochemical cells. Electrode and electrolyte selections are tailored to each half-cell reaction, adding complexity and cost. Despite its potential to synergize biomass upgrading and CO<sub>2</sub> reduction, literature on this integrated approach remains scarce.[24-26]

In this contribution, we illustrate the concurrent HMFOR and CO<sub>2</sub>RR at anodic and cathodic sites, respectively, over the single catalyst, FeNi, supported on CNTs derived from CO<sub>2</sub>. At first, as shown in Scheme 1, Fe and Ni nanoparticles were separately deposited on hierarchical ZSM5 nanosheets by a wet impregnation method to produce the physically mixed Fe and Ni on ZSM5 (FeNiZSM5, step I). Then, CNTs are grown using  $CO_2$  as a carbon source<sup>[27]</sup> on the FeNiZSM5 (FeNiZSM5-CNTs, step II). After zeolite removal (step III), the FeNiCNTs were deposited on nickel foam as working electrodes (FeNiCNTs.NF, step IV), which were applied for both anode and cathode to feature FDCA production and CO<sub>2</sub> reduction simultaneously (step V) (see more experimental detail in Supporting Information). This is the first example to emphasize using carbon-based composites derived from CO<sub>2</sub> for the simultaneous electrooxidation of HMF and CO<sub>2</sub> reduction.

#### **Results and Discussion**

Due to the multi-step process involved in synthesizing the electrocatalyst, subsequent characterization is undertaken precisely. At first, for the preparation of FeNiZSM5 samples, PXRD analysis validates the crystallinity of bare MFI (Socony Mobile-five) or ZSM5 and its metal-impregnated counterparts. The PXRD pattern of a typical MFI-type zeolite topology is observed at  $2\theta$  of  $8.0^{\circ}$ ,  $9.0^{\circ}$ ,  $14.8^{\circ}$ ,  $22.9^{\circ}$ ,  $24.0^{\circ}$ , and 29.8°, signifying the crystal plane indices of (101), (200), (301), (501), (303), and (503), respectively.<sup>[28]</sup> Incorporation of Fe, Ni, or both introduces additional characteristic peaks at 37°, 43°, and 33°, 36°, 41°, 50°, 54°, and 58°, corresponding to (111), (200) for NiO and (104), (110), (113), (024), (116), and (018) for Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, respectively<sup>[29,30]</sup> (Figure 1). Evaluation of the textural properties using N<sub>2</sub> adsorption–desorption (Figure S1) was then studied, indicating the presence of hierarchical zeolite structures for both bare ZSM5 and metals-impregnated ZSM5 nanosheets, corresponding to the combined type I and IV isotherms, suggesting the presence of both micropores and mesopores.[31] Impregnation of Fe or Ni nanoparticles leads to a decreased surface area and porosity, as shown in Table S1, suggesting the successful incorporation of Fe and Ni, thereby blocking zeolite-pore channels. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is conducted to study the metal average particle size (Figure S2), which is revealed to be  $8.0 \pm 3.0$ ,  $12.5 \pm 3.5$ , and  $22.3 \pm 6.1$  nm in FeZSM5, NiZSM5, and FeNiZSM5, respectively. Transmission electron microscopy energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (TEM-EDS) shows the separated islands of Fe and Ni species deposited on ZSM5. At the same time, a homogenous mixture of physically mixed Fe and Ni is observed in FeNiZSM5 (Figure S3).

Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and TEM were employed to analyze and confirm the successful formation of CNTs on FeZSM5, NiZSM5, and FeNiZSM5 catalysts (Figures \$4 and \$5). These catalysts, denoted as FeZSM5-CNTs, NiZSM5-CNTs, and FeNiZSM5-CNTs, respectively, exhibited uniform CNTs structures with an average diameter of  $14.0 \pm 4.0$  nm,  $16.4 \pm 7.3$  nm, and  $22.3 \pm 5.5$  nm. Notably, the CNTs formed using the FeNiZSM5 catalyst demonstrated a larger average diameter compared to those formed with the individual Fe- or Ni-based catalysts because Fe-supported CNTs facilitate enhanced carbon dispersity, while the Nibased CNTs promote C-C and C-H bond cleavage, leading to a synergistic effect that significantly improves CNTs production when utilizing the mixed FeNi-based catalyst. [32] As shown in Table S2, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and Raman spectroscopy further corroborated these findings. The FeNiZSM5-CNTs exhibited the highest CNTs yield of 22.9% and the lowest  $I_D/I_G$  ratio of 0.80, indicating superior graphitization and reduced structural disorder compared to CNTs produced by the other catalysts.<sup>[33]</sup> Fairly the finely tuned CNTs can be attributed to the physically mixed metalzeolite instead of co-impregnation, as the former allows smaller and more dispersed metal clusters for nucleation on the zeolite support, resulting in smaller diameter CNTs  $(28.1 \pm 7.0 \text{ nm})$  and lower defect sites  $(I_D/I_G \text{ ratio} = 0.57)$ as shown in Figure S6 and Table S3, suitable for enhancing

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Scheme 1. Schematic illustration of the elaboration of FeNiCNTs deposited on nickel foam (FeNiCNTs.NF) for simultaneous oxidation and reduction of HMF and CO<sub>2</sub>, respectively, including physically mixed Fe and Ni on ZSM5 (FeNiZSM5) preparation (step I), CNTs grown on the FeNiZSM5 (FeNiZSM5-CNTs, step II), zeolite removal (step III), deposited the FeNiCNTs on nickel foam (FeNiCNTs.NF, step IV), featuring FDCA production and CO<sub>2</sub> reduction on the FeNiCNTs.NF as both the anode and the cathode, respectively (step V).

Figure 1. XRD patterns of ZSM5 (black), NiZSM5 (blue), FeZSM5 (red), and physically mixed FeNiZSM5 (green).

electrocatalytic performance. In contrast, co-impregnation leads to larger metal nanoparticle aggregates, which produce larger diameter CNTs (45.5  $\pm$  9.6 nm) with more defects ( $I_{\rm D}/_{\rm G}$  ratio = 1.25). Subsequently, the as-synthesized FeNiCNTs, FeCNTs, and NiCNTs after zeolite removal were analyzed using TEM-EDS (Figures 2 and S7), confirming the presence of Ni and Fe on the CNTs. Selected area electron diffraction

**Figure 2.** a) TEM image, b) SAED pattern, and c) EDS elemental mapping images of C, Fe, Ni, and overlay of Ni and Fe of physically mixed FeNiCNTs.

(SAED) images of FeNiCNTs (Figure 2b) confirm the plane indices of (104), (116), (110), (113), and (024) for  $Fe_2O_3$  and (200) for NiO, respectively, which are consistent with the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns as shown in Figure 1. Figure 2c demonstrates the distribution of Fe and Ni, physically combined in a 1:1 weight ratio, which is crucial

*Figure 3.* a) Linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) of various catalysts to determine the potential range required for a) HMFOR in 1 M KOH with 5 mM HMF, at a scan rate of 20 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , b) HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and product selectivity as a function of applied potentials with FeNiCNTs.NF as the working electrode for HMFOR with 5 mM HMF in 1 M KOH for 60 min. All experiments were conducted in a three-electrode setup separated by Nafion-115.

for facilitating their synergistic catalytic interaction during the HMFOR. This equal distribution allows for enhanced electron transfer and optimal interaction between the active sites of Fe and Ni, promoting improved catalytic efficiency and redox cycling.

Moreover, the catalyst was deposited onto nickel foam to form an electrocatalyst, referred to as FeNiCNTs.NF. The catalytic efficacy of the FeNiCNTs.NF catalyst was assessed for HMF electro-oxidation in a 1 M KOH aqueous electrolyte using an H-type electrochemical cell (Figure S8), where the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) competes predominantly. The LSV curve in the absence of HMF, in supporting electrolytes of FeNiCNTs.NF, displayed a distinct metal oxidation peak, indicating the surface oxidation of metals, followed by a decrease in current density to a stable region, with a notable rise in current density due to the initiation of OER (Figure S9).[\[34\]](#page-9-0) However, upon 3 mM HMF addition, a characteristic HMFOR peak appeared within the potential range of 1.40–1.55 VRHE. The intensity of this peak increased with increasing HMF concentration, while the OER became prominent at a potential of 1.60 VRHE, proving the thermodynamic favorability of HMFOR. A comparative study for HMFOR was conducted on various electrodes, including bare Ni foam, NiCNTs.NF, FeCNTs.NF, and FeNiCNTs.NF in 1 M KOH with 5 mM HMF (Figure 3a). Remarkably, FeNiC-NTs.NF reached 3.8 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at the lowest overpotential of 1.49 VRHE, indicating effective catalysis of HMFOR with respect to other catalysts (also mentioned in Figure S10). The effect of potential on HMFOR over FeNiCNTs.NF was then illustrated using a three-electrode system with 5 mM HMF in 1 M KOH for 60 min (Figure 3b).

Quantification analysis of the remaining reactant and produced products was performed by a calibration method using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) equipped with the PDA detector at 238 nm for HMF, FDCA, HMFCA, and FDCA, and at 288 for DFF (Figure S11). Results confirmed that 1.49 VRHE is an optimal condition showing the highest yield of FDCA, which is 98.03%. Additionally, the Nyquist plots in Figure S12a compare the electrochemical behavior of bare NF, FeCNTs.NF, NiCNTs.NF, and FeNiCNTs.NF at 1.49 VRHE, with the fitted parameters in Table S4 (for details, see Supporting Information). The results show that FeNiCNTs.NF has lower *R*<sup>t</sup> and *R*film, indicating better electronic conductivity and faster charge transfer than the other catalysts. Moreover, the Nyquist plots over FeNiCNTs.NF were studied at various potentials during HMFOR (Figure S12b). At 0.35 VRHE, the vertical lines indicate high charge transfer resistance, implying no significant Faradaic reactions.[\[15\]](#page-9-0) At 1.42 VRHE, a semicircle appears, signaling reduced resistance and the onset of HMF oxidation, consistent with LSV data (Figure 3a). At 1.56 VRHE, a smaller semicircle suggests improved kinetics; however, it is most likely OER, as the catalytic efficiency of HMF oxidation starts to decrease (Figure 3b). Higher voltages tend to reduce HMF conversion because the concurrent OER becomes the dominant process at elevated potentials. However, quantitative electrocatalytic assessments of products and remaining reactants against various electrodes highlighted that FeNiCNTs.NF exhibited exceptional catalytic performances at 1.49 VRHE (Figure S14). In terms of the reaction mechanism, HMF oxidation typically proceeds via the oxidation of either aldehyde or hydroxyl groups, leading to the formation of HMFCA or DFF intermediates, which are further oxidized to FFCA before the final product, FDCA, is obtained (Figure [4\)](#page-4-0). As the reaction progresses, the concentration of HMF decreases, while FDCA concentration increases over time, accompanied by a visible color change from light yellow to colorless. Notably, in the FeNiCNTs.NFcatalyzed process, HMF oxidation predominantly follows the HMFCA pathway due to the elevated pH conditions, effectively suppressing DFF formation. This selective route contributes to the catalyst's enhanced efficiency in driving the oxidation reaction (Figure S15).[\[35\]](#page-9-0) A previous study by our group[\[34\]](#page-9-0) has shown that the oxidation of HMF to FDCA proceeds through two possible pathways: the DFF or HMFCA pathway, both leading to the final intermediate, FFCA, before its oxidation to FDCA, as shown in Figure [4.](#page-4-0) The study further highlights that the dual H-bond adsorption of HMF

15213757, 2025, 19, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202501404 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-4-0"></span>

*Figure 4.* Proposed mechanisms of the HMF oxidation reaction: a) from HMF to FDCA and b) the detailed mechanism of FFCA to FDCA via iFDCA. [Correction added on 20 March 2025, after first online publication: Figure 4 has been updated.]

(through its alcohol and aldehyde groups) on the NiOOH surface, which is easily observed during the electrooxidation when using Ni-based electrodes,[\[36,37\]](#page-9-0) is the most stable configuration, favoring the competitive production of DFF and HMFCA intermediates. Deprotonation of the aldehyde group is more thermodynamically favorable than that of the alcohol group, and the potential-determining step (PDS) for the HMFCA pathway (conversion of FFCA to FDCA, 0.97 eV) is energetically lower than the DFF pathway's PDS (conversion of DFF to FFCA, 1.32 eV). This suggests that the HMFCA pathway is the most favorable for HMF oxidation to FDCA on the NiOOH surface. Thus, to explore the catalytic mechanism and selectivity of Ni-based over Fe-based species (Fe2O3 as the predominant species in this case), density functional theory (DFT) calculations were studied to compare the FFCA oxidation pathways on both catalysts. The optimized structures of all intermediate adsorptions on Fe2O3 are shown in Figure S16, while the corresponding reaction pathways and electronic energy profiles are presented in Figure S17 (refer to Supporting Information for more details). The results indicate that FFCA oxidation to FDCA is exothermic (−0.76 eV) on Ni-based surfaces but highly endothermic (1.76 eV) on Febased surfaces, with significantly higher FDCA desorption energy on Fe2O3. These findings suggest that the reaction from FFCA to FDCA is energetically unfavorable on Fe2O3, as supported by the catalytic activity in Figure S14, showing higher HMF conversion and FDCA yield on NiCNTs.NF compared to FeCNTs.NF.

Additionally, the catalytic activity of FeNiCNTs.NF was enhanced, arising from the precise engineering of CNTs facilitating HMF oxidation coupled with the synergistic influence of Fe and Ni species. Notably high-valence Ni species (NiOOH) also help promote the complete HMF oxidation.[\[38\]](#page-9-0) Simultaneously, Fe incorporation enhances the long-term stability of the catalyst and facilitates the generation of reactive NiOOH species,[\[39\]](#page-9-0) which also serve as crucial active sites for the HMFOR. To further elucidate the efficiency of FeNiCNTs.NF, the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of FeNiCNTs.NF was evaluated through its double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) in 1 M KOH, alongside other catalysts. A non-Faradaic potential region was identified via cyclic voltammetry (CV), and the charging current (*i*c) was recorded at varying scan rates (Figure S18). The linear relationship between *i*<sup>c</sup> and scan rate was used to determine *C*dl (Figure S19). ECSA was then calculated using a specific capacitance (*C*s) of 0.040 mF cm−2, which was also used to normalize the current density (mA cm−2) in the LSVs provided. It should be noted that FeNiCNTs.NF exhibited a substantially higher ECSA, highlighting its enhanced catalytic efficiency. Moreover, LSVs were conducted on glassy carbon (GC) to compare the support material with nickel foam as shown in Figure S20a. GC exhibited higher current density for HMF oxidation compared to bare nickel foam (NF), likely due to faster electron transfer kinetics, despite its lower ECSA (Figure S20b,c).[\[40\]](#page-9-0) However, the oxidation peak occurs at 2 VRHE on GC due to its inert nature, while NF catalyzes HMF oxidation at a lower potential of 1.65 VRHE. Although GC shows higher current density, NF is superior due to its lower overpotential and no need for binders like Nafion to attach FeNiCNTs, making it more practical for scalable electrode design.

Then the superior catalytic performance of FeNiCNTs.NF in contrast to other carbon-supported electrodes such as (FeNiActivatedCarbon.NiF and FeNiCommercialCNTs.NF) is observed in Figure S14, which arises from the fine-tuning of CNTs in FeNiCNTs.NF. To address this comparison in detail, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) is used to understand the characteristics of the prepared FeNiCNTs.NF (Figure [5\)](#page-5-0) and the FeNiCommercialCNTs (Figure S21). Two samples were taken including the as-prepared catalyst and the spent catalyst after five consecutive cycles of HMFOR at 1.49VRHE in 1 M KOH solution containing 5 mM HMF. Figures [5](#page-5-0) and S21 present the XPS spectra for carbon (C 1s), oxygen (O 1s), nickel (Ni 2p), and iron (Fe 2p). These spectra are further analyzed to elucidate the relative atomic concentrations of each element within the sample mentioned in green color. The quantification is achieved by calculating the species ratio for each element, defined as the area under the peak corresponding to a particular species (C─C, C─O, or C═O) normalized by the aggregated area under all the peaks (C*<sup>a</sup>*) observed in the spectrum. This methodological approach facilitates a nuanced understanding of the elemental composition and chemical state of FeNiCNTs.NF and FeNiCommericalCNTs.NF. At first, the fresh FeNiCNTs.NF catalyst displays a sp2 carbon peak at 284.6 eV, characteristic of graphitic carbon structures, and additional peaks at 286.6 and 288.9 eV, attributable to carbon bonded with oxygen (C─O) and carbonyl groups (C═O), respectively (Figure [5a\)](#page-5-0). After the reaction, the spent catalyst's C 1s spectrum (Figure [5b\)](#page-5-0) demonstrates an amplified sp2 peak, with an increased C─C/C<sup>a</sup> ratio from 0.40 to 0.86, suggesting a potential reduction in oxygenated groups or a reorientation of the carbon matrix due to the electrocatalytic activity, which implies a surface reconditioning induced by the electrochemical process. During HMFOR, the carbon species in FeNiCommercialCNTs.NF

<span id="page-5-0"></span>*Figure 5.* FeNiCNTs.NF's XPS spectra plotted and compared between as-prepared catalyst a), c), e), and g) and spent catalyst after five consecutive cycles of HMF oxidation at the anode in 5 mM HMF in 1 M KOH solution for 1 h at 1.49 VRHE b), d), f), and h).

is more readily oxidized, contributing to its lower FDCA yield of 77.72%. This behavior can be attributed to the larger diameter of the commercial CNTs, which is 30 nm, compared to the 22 nm for CNTs synthesized as FeNiCNTs.NF. The larger diameter results in lower surface curvature, affecting the distribution and density of defect sites and potentially making the CNTs more susceptible to oxidation.[\[41,42\]](#page-9-0) This is supported by the C 1s XPS spectra of the fresh and spent catalysts, where the C─C bonds correspond to defect sites. The ratio of these C─C/Ca bonds increases significantly in FeNiCNTs.NF (Figure 5a,b) after the reaction, from 0.40 to 0.86, indicating a higher defect density that enhances metal interaction, eventually improving catalytic activity. Additionally, the surface area-to-volume ratio decreases with increasing CNTs' diameter, as can be seen in the commercial CNTs compared to the prepared FeNiCNTs.NF, leading to a less effective dispersion of metal nanoparticles and thereby weakening metal-CNTs interactions (Figure S7c). Likewise, previous studies have shown that incorporating carbon into the metal matrix modifies the d-electron density of states

15213757, 2025, 19, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202501404 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>*Figure 6.* a) Linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) of various catalysts to determine the potential range required for CO2RR in CO2 saturated 1 M KOH, at a scan rate of 20 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , b) potential optimization at various potentials of FeNiCNTs.NF for CO2RR at the cathode, with continuous CO2 purging in 1 M KOH. All experiments were conducted in a three-electrode setup separated by Nafion-115.

(DOS) in carbides, shifting it towards the Fermi level, akin to that in noble metals.[\[43\]](#page-9-0) This indicates that stronger metal-CNTs interactions in smaller, controlled-growth CNTs shield the CNTs from oxidation and direct the oxidative process toward the metal itself. Enhanced electron transfer from the metal to the CNTs, resulting from this stronger interaction, provides better protection against CNTs' oxidation, thus encouraging superior catalytic performance.

Next, the O 1s spectra from both fresh and spent catalysts (Figure [5c,d\)](#page-5-0) exhibit peaks indicative of hydroxyl groups and metal oxides, with a notable post-reaction increase in the hydroxyl peak intensity and a decrease in the metal-oxide feature. This shift implies an alteration of surface oxygen moieties during the HMFOR, confirming the formation of NiOOH (Ni<sup>3</sup>+). Moreover, the Fe 2p XPS spectrum of the fresh catalyst (Figure [5e\)](#page-5-0) shows peaks corresponding to both Fe2<sup>+</sup> and Fe3+, with the spent catalyst spectrum (Figure [5f\)](#page-5-0), with no dramatic change hinting at the stability of Fe2O3 during the oxidation process, due to its thermodynamic stability and weaker ability to adsorb hydroxyl ions crucial for HMFOR.[\[44,45\]](#page-9-0) Meanwhile, the Ni 2p spectrum for the fresh catalyst (Figure [5g\)](#page-5-0) presents Ni2<sup>+</sup> peaks and a distinct peak for metallic Ni, pointing to the presence of unoxidized Ni post 1 M HCl cleaning treatment on nickel foam. The spent catalyst (Figure [5h\)](#page-5-0), however, shows a reduction in Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (0.55 from 0.75) and the emergence of Ni<sup>3</sup>+, indicative of oxidation to Ni3+(Ni3+/Nia) from 0 to 0.12 compared to the fresh catalyst, which is proposed to participate actively in the oxidation of HMF, as evidenced by the formation of NiOOH. These shifts illustrate Fe's stability and Ni's dynamic oxidation, pivotal for the catalytic oxidation efficacy.[\[46\]](#page-9-0) whereas nickel undergoes partial oxidation, enhancing its role as an active species in the catalytic process under alkaline conditions favorable for HMFOR.

Then, the electrocatalytic activity of FeNiCNTs.NF was tested for CO2RR in 1 M KOH. The reaction conditions, especially pH, were carefully standardized across experiments for accurate comparison and interpretation of electrocatalytic performances in various gas environments. Utilizing Ag/AgCl (sat. KCl) as the reference electrode necessitates pH adjustment when translating potential, as the electrode's response is pH dependent. Initial conditions with N2 purging in 1 M KOH exhibited a pH of 14 (Figure S22). However, introducing CO2 resulted in a lower pH of 10 due to bicarbonate and carbonate formation. To align the pH conditions for both N2 and CO2 systems, sodium bicarbonate was introduced into the N2-purged 1 M KOH solution until the pH reached 10. This step ensured that the pH remained consistent for subsequent catalytic activity assessments for both, providing a controlled comparison baseline. The obtained LSVs revealed a pronounced catalytic preference for CO2RR when using the FeNiCNTs.NF electrode (Figure 6a) in comparison to other electrodes (bare NF, FeCNTs.NF and NiCNTs.NF). The CO2RR on FeNiCNTs.NF manifested at potentials lower than -0.3 VRHE, with the electrode achieving a peak current density of 5 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at −0.5 VRHE. This demonstrates the effectiveness of FeNiCNTs.NF as a catalyst in reducing CO2 under alkaline conditions, with less energy required than that for HER, which is consistent with the thermodynamics of the reactions involved.[\[47\]](#page-9-0) However, we addressed the low current density compared to other works of CO2RR by varying the temperature and electrolyte concentration in LSVs in CO2 saturated systems (Figure S23). Increasing the temperature from 25 to 45 °C and 65 °C significantly improved the current density, reaching nearly 12 mA cm−2, due to enhanced reaction kinetics and improved ion mobility. However, the Faradaic efficiency (FE%) decreased from 87.50% at 25 °C to 65.25% at 65 °C, with a shift in the product distribution towards CO, formic acid, and a notable increase in HER at higher temperatures. Furthermore, increasing the KOH concentration from 1 to 3 M at 25 °C also improved current density (∼11 mA cm−2), as higher KOH concentrations enhanced ionic conductivity and OH<sup>−</sup> availability, leading to better CO2 reduction. The FE% also increased from 87.50% at 1 M to 93.31% at 3 M allowing stabilized reaction intermediates. Despite these improvements, 1 M KOH at 25 °C was chosen as the optimal standard condition for CO2 reduction, balancing performance with stability and energy efficiency. Long-term use of higher temperatures could cause catalyst degradation and reduced energy efficiency, while higher KOH concentrations could lead to corrosion. However, this study highlights the novelty of CO2-derived

CNTs integrated with metals for CO2 reduction and suggests that future improvements, such as gas diffusion electrodes (GDEs) and optimized catalyst designs, could further enhance performance and current density.

Furthermore, a three-cell setup was organized to study the optimum voltage required to obtain decent Faradaic efficiencies (FE) (Figure [6b\)](#page-6-0), calculated using the calibration method (Figures S24 and S25). As can be seen at −0.21 VRHE, the highest FECO is 80.69%, followed by formic acid (FEformic = 5.12%) and acetic acid (FEacetic = 1.70%) on FeNiCNTs.NF was observed within 2 h with the neglectable HER, attributed to the synergetic effect of Fe/Ni on CNTs. Transition metals like Fe and Ni facilitate CO2RR and HER by donating electrons to the unoccupied orbital of CO2. When integrated with CNTs, the electron density at the metal surface is altered, increasing the affinity for CO2 while reducing HER activity. Therefore, CNTs can modify the metal's electronic structure and d-orbital occupancy, eventually suppressing hydrogen adsorption by inducing charge redistribution. This effect blocks active sites on the metal for HER, steering the catalytic activity toward CO2RR. CNTs also optimize the metal's ability to transfer electrons to CO2, enhancing acceptor–donor interactions and stabilizing intermediates, promoting CO2 reduction over hydrogen evolution.[\[48–52\]](#page-10-0)

Typically, in CO2RR, catalyst selectivities and efficiencies are influenced by several factors, particularly the metal component's role in favoring CO formation over formic acid. To understand the mechanism of CO2RR at the cathode, a theoretical study was conducted using density functional theory (DFT). This study involved modelling the NiO and Fe2O3 matrices separately, based on the structural characterization by the PXRD, and SAED results (Figures [1](#page-2-0) and [2\)](#page-2-0) that highlighted their distinct phases, with NiO (200) and Fe2O3 (104) surfaces being predominant (for more details, please refer to the Supporting Information). Fe2O3 and NiO were selected for DFT calculations instead of their reduced forms (Fe and Ni) because the applied potential of −0.2 VRHE is near the onset reduction potential of Fe and Ni (−0.3 VRHE), as shown in the LSV data (Figure S22). At this potential, Fe2O3 and NiO remain in their oxidized states, which is more appropriate for accurately modeling the CO2RR mechanism. To validate the selection of Fe2O3 and NiO as representative surface species for DFT calculations under CO2RR conditions, XPS analysis was performed on spent FeNiCNTs.NF after 2 h of CO2RR in 1 M KOH at −0.21 VRHE to provide insights into the oxidation states of Fe and Ni on the catalyst surface. The C 1s spectrum (Figure S26a) of the spent catalyst showed an increased C─C/C<sup>a</sup> ratio (0.64 vs. 0.40 in the fresh catalyst), suggesting a reduction in oxygenated groups and structural reorientation of the carbon matrix, enhancing metal-support interactions. The Fe 2p spectrum (Figure S26c) confirmed the thermodynamic stability of Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> from Fe2O3 in both fresh and spent catalysts. The Ni 2p spectrum (Figure S26d) showed a reduction in Ni2<sup>+</sup> (Ni2+/Ni<sup>a</sup> decreased from 0.75 to 0.65) and an increase in Ni<sup>0</sup> species (Ni0/Nia = 0.35), indicating partial reduction of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> to Ni<sup>0</sup> during CO2RR. Thus, XPS confirms Fe remains as Fe2O3 and Ni primarily as NiO with a partial reduction to Ni0, supporting Fe2O3 and NiO as appropriate DFT model choices under these conditions.

The stability of the antiferromagnetic (AFM) state in both NiO and Fe2O3 was confirmed by calculating the relative energy per conventional cell, which represents the energy difference between the AFM and ferromagnetic (FM) states for a unit cell containing 64 atoms. (Figures S27 and S28). In this context, the lower the relative energy, the more stable the configuration. Since the AFM state in both materials shows a lower total energy per atom compared to the FM state (Tables S5 and S6), it indicates that the AFM configuration is energetically favored and thus more stable, consistent with findings from previous studies.[\[53–62\]](#page-10-0) The Hubbard *U* values were carefully selected for Ni and Fe atoms, as discussed in Supporting Information and Tables S5 and S6. Following this initial assessment, the slab models of Ni (200) and CO2-adsorbed Fe2O3 (104) were employed, as depicted in Figure S29. The mechanistic study began with investigating CO2 adsorption, as the binding configuration is critical for influencing product selectivity, illustrated in Figure S30. It was confirmed that CO2 adopts a C-bound configuration on both NiO and Fe2O3 surfaces, while no O-bound configurations were identified (Figure S30), and the adsorption-free energies of CO2 were evaluated. In step 1, the C-bound adsorptive state of CO2 (*G*∗CO2 ) is 0.56 eV on NiO (Figure S30a) and −0.18 eV on Fe2O3 (Figure S30b), indicating that Fe2O3 is a more active surface for CO2RR than NiO. Then, the mechanisms of these pathways were systematically studied and compared. The reaction undergoes two protonation steps, and two possible pathways were found: 1) The O-protonation pathway via \*COOH intermediate to produce CO and 2) the C-protonation pathway via \*OCHO intermediate to produce HCOOH. Considering the free energy pathway of the two mechanisms, the CO pathway is more thermodynamically preferable than the HCOOH pathway on both surfaces (Figure [7\)](#page-8-0). For NiO, the first protonation step to \*COOH is the potential determining step (PDS)[\[63\]](#page-10-0) with a free energy of 1.48 eV. Conversely, for Fe2O3, the second protonation to \*CO is that CO can easily desorb from both surfaces, thereby minimizing PDS[\[64\]](#page-10-0) with a free energy of 0.97 eV for Fe2O3, with a lower free energy barrier step compared to the \*HCOOH step formation (Figure [7\)](#page-8-0), which agrees with the previous works.[\[53–62\]](#page-10-0) By comparison of the PDS, the calculations suggest that Fe2O3 shows higher catalytic performance for CO2 reduction to the CO product than NiO. Thus, compared with the CO and COOH formation pathways, the C-bound configurations determined that O protonation (\*COOH pathway) is more feasible, enhancing selectivity toward the CO production pathway rather than formic acid (HCOOH) formation (Figure [7\)](#page-8-0). In the final step, the desorption of \*CO from the surface was calculated as shown in step 2 of Figure S30. The desorption energy of CO is 0.21 eV on NiO and −0.07 eV on Fe2O3. The weak binding energy indicates subsequent protonation and promotes the formation of the \*CO product. This comprehensive analysis underscores the distinct roles of NiO and Fe2O3 in facilitating selective CO2 reduction pathways.

The above-mentioned results highlight that FeNiC-NTs.NF's distinctive catalytic sites make it the best candidate

<span id="page-8-0"></span>*Figure 7.* CO2 activation and the CO adsorption free energy on a) NiO (200) and b) Fe2O3 (104), where ρ represents the charge density difference before and after adsorption. The yellow and blue regions show electron accumulation and depletion, respectively.

for both HMFOR and CO2RR. Thus, the combined HMFOR-CO2RR cell was studied using FeNiCNTs.NF as both electrodes with *E*cell of 1.47 V (for details, see Supporting Information). Theoretically, as CO2RR intermediates (\*CO) act as nucleophiles, specific sites with positive charges can attack these species, and thus act as active sites. In this context, both Fe and Ni ions exhibit positive changes. Consequently, the Fe site and Ni site on FeNi-supported CNTs composites are identified as active sites facilitating 2e– transfers in CO2RR. The initial step involves the adsorption of CO2 onto the electrode surface. Subsequently, when the CO2 molecule captures an electron, producing CO2 <sup>−</sup>, which analogously undergoes protonation, leading to the formation of \*COOH. Protons in the catalyst environment interact with \*COOH<sup>−</sup> to produce CO. Ultimately, these adsorbed CO entities are released into the electrolyte environment[\[65\]](#page-10-0) while concurrently generating FDCA at the anodic compartment (Figure 8). Furthermore, the catalytic stability of our catalyst in a combined cell setup is then studied, and 99.60% FEFDCA with 96.25% FECO was obtained in 3 h and maintained over 95% for at least five consecutive cycles (Figure S31). Compared to the works listed in Table S7, this study represents the first novel approach to simultaneous electrochemical HMFOR and CO2RR using a CO2-derived metal-CNTs electrocatalyst in a single supporting electrolyte for both the anode and cathode. This approach achieves a Faradaic efficiency exceeding 95% for both reactions at the anode and the cathode.

#### *Conclusion*

In conclusion, this work highlights the successful synthesis of FeNi-supported multi-walled carbon nanotubes (FeNiC-NTs) electrodes derived from CO2 as the feed gas for the

*Figure 8.* Faradaic efficiencies of combined HMFOR-CO2RR at various voltages for 2 h with FeNiCNTs.NF as both the anode and cathode, in 5 mM HMF in 1 M KOH and 1 M KOH with constant CO2 purging as the anolyte and catholyte, respectively. Experiments were conducted in a two-electrode setup separated by Nafion-115.

simultaneous electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF to FDCA and the reduction of CO2 to CO in a combined cell. The FeNiCNTs.NF electrocatalyst showed fantastic performance, attaining 99.60% FEFDCA with 96.25% FECO under optimized ambient conditions. The superior catalytic activity is attributed to the benefits of Fe and Ni metal nanoparticles supported on uniform CNTs, further enhancing catalytic stability and efficiency by promoting better charge transfer, which can be confirmed by techniques like TEM, XPS, and EIS. Moreover, the mechanisms of both the HMFOR and CO2RR were studied using DFTs to understand the active sites and their role in the reaction to obtain significant FE. This dual-functional electrocatalytic approach not only improves the energy efficiency of electrolyzers by replacing the sluggish OER with HMFOR but also promotes the

15213757, 2025, 19, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202501404 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# *Forschungsartikel*

<span id="page-9-0"></span>simultaneous sustainable conversion of biomass-derived compounds and CO2 into valuable chemicals. This work paves the way for further development of integrated biorefinery and CO2 utilization systems, with significant potential for industrial applications.

#### *Acknowledgements*

This project was funded by the National Research Council of Thailand/Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology (N42A660307), the Thailand Science Research and Innovation (TSRI, FRB680014/0457), and the Program Management Unit for Human Resources & Institutional Development, Research and Innovation (grant number: B41G680026 (Global League)).

#### *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

**Keywords:** Carbon dioxide electroreduction • Carbon nanotubes • HMF electrooxidation • Iron • Nickel

- [1] X. Tang, M. Zuo, Z. Li, H. Liu, C. Xiong, X. Zeng, Y. Sun, L. Hu, S. Liu, T. Lei, L. Lin, *ChemSusChem* **2017**, *10*, 2696–2706.
- [2] D. Zhao, T. Su, Y. Wang, R. S. Varma, C. Len, *Mol. Catal.* **2020**, *495*, 111133.
- [3] C. V. Nguyen, D. Lewis, W. Chen, H. Huang, Z. A. AL Othman, Y. Yamauchi, K. C. Wu, *Catal. Today* **2016**, *278*, 344–349.
- [4] P. L. Arias, J. A. Cecilia, I. Gandarias, J. Iglesias, M. López Granados, R. Mariscal, G. Morales, R. Moreno-Tost, P. Maireles-Torres, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2020**, *10*, 2721–2757.
- [5] H. Zhou, Z. Li, L. Ma, H. Duan, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 897– 907.
- [6] A. J. J. E. Eerhart, A. P. C. Faaij, M. K. Patel, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2012**, *5*, 6407–6422.
- [7] G. Grabowski, J. Lewkowski, R. Skowronski, ´ *Electrochim. Acta* **1991**, *36*, 1995.
- [8] B. J. Taitt, D. H. Nam, K. S. Choi, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 660–670.
- [9] W. Liu, L. Dang, Z. Xu, H. Yu, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5533–5541.
- [10] Y. Lu, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, *Sci. China Chem.* **2020**, *63*, 980– 986.
- [11] J. Jin, Y. Fang, T. Zhang, A. Han, B. Wang, J. Liu, *Sci. China Mater.* **2022**, *65*, 2704–2710.
- [12] M. Zhang, Y. Liu, B. Liu, Z. Chen, H. Xu, K. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 5179–5189.
- [13] X. Tan, W. Deng, M. Liu, Q. Zhang, Y. Wang, *Chem. Commun.* **2009**, *46*, 7179–7181.
- [14] D. S. Su, S. Perathoner, G. Centi, *Chem. Rev.* **2013**, *113*, 5782– 5816.

- [15] N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 15895– 15903.
- [16] I. Roger, M. A. Shipman, M. D. Symes, *Nat. Rev. Chem.* **2017**, *1*, 0003.
- [17] H. G. Cha, K.-S. Choi, *Nat. Chem.* **2015**, *7*, 328–333.
- [18] A. Sohail, C. Wattanakit, *Curr. Opin. Electrochem.* **2025**, *49*, 101628.
- [19] S. Paul, S. Sarkar, A. Adalder, A. Banerjee, U. K. Ghorai, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2023**, *11*, 13249–13254.
- [20] Y. Li, S. Zheng, H. Liu, Q. Xiong, H. Yi, H. Yang, Z. Mei, Q. Zhao, Z. Yin, M. Huang, Y. Lin, W. Lai, S. Dou, F. Pan, S. Li, *Nat Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 176.
- [21] W. Nunthakitgoson, P. Chaipornchalerm, A. Sohail, A. Thivasasith, C. Wattanakit, *Chem Comm.* **2024**, *60*, 12177–12180.
- [22] J. Mukherjee, S. Paul, A. Adalder, S. Kapse, R. Thapa, S. Mandal, B. Ghorai, S. Sarkar, U. K. Ghorai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2200882.
- [23] Z. Wen, S. Xu, Y. Zhu, G. Liu, H. Gao, L. Sun, F. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202201086.
- [24] J. Bi, Q. Zhu, W. Guo, P. Li, S. Jia, J. Liu, J. Ma, J. Zhang, Z. Liu, B. Han, *ACS Sustain. Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 8043–8050.
- [25] J. Fan, Y. Zhao, Q. Wang, M. Gao, X. Li, D. Li, J. Feng, *Dalton Trans.* **2023**, *52*, 1950–1961.
- [26] Z. Zhang, S. Liu, Z. Wu, X. Chen, J. Wang, Y. Gao, S. Wang, F. Tao, G. Lv, *Green Chem.* **2023**, *25*, 5404–5415.
- [27] W. Nunthakitgoson, C. Rodaum, P. Pornsetmetakul, C. Wattanakit, P. Wattana, A. Thivasasith, *ChemPlusChem.*, **2023**, *88*, 1–8.
- [28] M. Liu, J. Li, W. Jia, M. Qin, Y. Wang, K. Tong, H. Chen, Z. Zhu, *RSC Adv.* **2015**, *5*, 9237–9240.
- [29] M. ul Haq, Z. Wen, Z. Zhang, S. Khan, Z. Lou, Z. Ye, L. Zhu, *Sci. Rep.* **2018**, *8*, 1705.
- [30] J. Xu, Q. Yao, P. Li, X. Zhang, S. Wang, C. Pan, *J. Mater. Sci.: Mater. Electron.* **2022**, *33*, 22549–22559.
- [31] A. Chakraborty, B. Sun, *Appl. Therm. Eng.* **2014**, *72*, 190–199.
- [32] Y. Shen, P. Zhao, Q. Shao, D. Ma, F. Takahashi, K. Yoshikawa, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2014**, *152–153*, 140–151.
- [33] A. Jorio, R. Saito, *J. Appl. Phys.* **2021**, *129*, 021102.
- [34] S. Klinyod, N. Yodsin, M. T. Nguyen, Z. Pasom, S. Assavapanumat, M. Ketkaew, P. Kidkhunthod, T. Yonezawa, S. Namuangruk, C. Wattanakit, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2400779.
- [35] Y. Yang, T. Mu, *Green Chem.* **2021**, *23*, 4228–4254.
- [36] S. Choi, M. Balamurugan, K.-G. Lee, K. H. Cho, S. Park, H. Seo, K. T. Nam, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2020**, *11*, 2941–2948.
- [37] H. Wang, J. Zhang, S. Tao, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *444*, 136693.
- [38] F. Y. Xiong, S. Hu, J. Jiang, Y. Liu, W. Zhao, X. Ji, C. Chen, M. Fan, K. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *499*, 1385–8947.
- [39] Z.-D. He, R. Tesch, M. J. Eslamibidgoli, M. H. Eikerling, P. M. Kowalski, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 3498.
- [40] W. Zheng, M. Liu, L. Y. S. Lee, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2020**, *5*, 3260– 3264.
- [41] Y. Cheng, C. Xu, L. Jia, J. D. Gale, L. Zhang, C. Liu, P. K. Shen, S. P. Jiang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2015**, *163*, 96–104.
- [42] D. Y. Kim, C.-M. Yang, Y. S. Park, K. K. Kim, S. Y. Jeong, J. H. Han, *Chem. Phys. Lett.* **2005**, *413*, 135–141.
- [43] S. Bathla, C. Tran, S. Kaliaguine, S. H. Mushrif, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 13980–13998.
- [44] H. B. Tao, Y. Xu, X. Huang, J. Chen, L. Pei, J. Zhang, J. G. Chen, B. Liu, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, 1498–1509.
- [45] Y. Lu, T. Liu, Y. C. Huang, L. Zhou, Y. Li, W. Chen, L. Yang, B. Zhou, Y. Wu, Z. Kong, Z. Huang, Y. Li, C.-L. Dong, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 4242.
- [46] T. Kahlstorf, J. N. Hausmann, I. Mondal, K. Laun, I. Zebger, T. Sontheimer, P. W. Menezes, *Green Chem.* **2023**, *25*, 8679–8686.
- [47] A. Kundu, B. Kumar, A. Rajput, B. Chakraborty, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, 8010–8021.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>

- [48] N. Tit, M. M. Al Ezzi, H. M. Abdullah, M. Yusupov, S. Kouser, H. Bahlouli, Z. H. Yamani, *Mater. Chem. Phys.* **2017**, *186*, 353– 364.
- [49] C. Zhao, Y. Yu, C. He, J. Huo, *Vacuum* **2023**, *209*, 111759.
- [50] J. Wang, J. Soo-Hyun Park, A. Imam, Z. Yu, Z. Fang, M. Noroozifar, H.-B. Kraatz, *ChemCatChem* **2024**, *16*, e202400959.
- [51] J. Li, Y. Zhou, X. Xiao, W. Wang, N. Wang, W. Qian, W. Chu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 41224–41236.
- [52] Y. Cheng, J. Chen, C. Yang, H. Wang, B. Johannessen, L. Thomsen, M. Saunders, J. Xiao, S. Yang, S. P. Jiang, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2023**, *6*, e12278.
- [53] R. Song Li, D. Qiang Xin, S. Qi Huang, Z. Jian Wang, L. Huang, X. Hua Zhou, *Chinese J. Phys.* **2018**, *56*, 2829–2836.
- [54] B. Kisan, J. Kumar, S. Padmanapan, P. Alagarsamy, *Physica B Condens. Matter.* **2020**, *593*, 412319.
- [55] C. Arrouvel, S. G. Sanches, J. Werckmann, J. G. Eon, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2019**, *478*, 398–407.
- [56] W. Xing, Y. Zhang, J. Zhu, R. Yu, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2020**, *532*, 147427.
- [57] D. Ködderitzsch, W. Hergert, W. M. Temmerman, Z. Szotek, A. Ernst, H. Winter, *Phys. Rev. B Condens. Matter. Mater. Phys.* **2002**, *66*, 644341–644349.

- [58] G. A. Sawatzky, J. W. Allen, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1984**, *53*, 2339.
- [59] S. Bandaru, I. Scivetti, C. Y. Yam, G. Teobaldi, *Prog. Nat. Sci.: Mater. Int.* **2019**, *29*, 349–355.
- [60] P. Wanaguru, J. An, Q. Zhang, *J. Appl. Phys.* **2016**, *119*, 215104.
- [61] G. Rollmann, A. Rohrbach, P. Entel, J. Hafner, *Phys. Rev. B Condens. Matter. Mater. Phys.* **2004**, *69*, 165107.
- [62] C. E. Cava, L. S. Roman, C. Persson, *Phys. Rev. B Condens. Matter. Mater. Phys.* **2013**, *88*, 075301.
- [63] M. D. Hossain, Y. Huang, T. H. Yu, W. A. Goddard, Z. Luo, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2256.
- [64] J. Gu, C.-S. Hsu, L. Bai, H. M. Chen, X. Hu, *Science* **2019**, *364*, 1091.
- [65] S. Liang, L. Huang, Y. Gao, Q. Wang, B. Liu, *Adv. Sci.* **2021**, *8*, 2102886.

Manuscript received: January 17, 2025 Revised manuscript received: February 28, 2025 Accepted manuscript online: March 11, 2025 Version of record online: March 20, 2025