---
source: Wang 等 - 2025 - Proton Flux Engineering via Built‐in Electric Fields in N‐doped CuO@Co3 O4 @Ni.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 61.349s
generated: 2026-01-10T09:01:40.321730Z
---

How to cite: *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202514438

### **Proton Flux Engineering via Built-in Electric Fields in N-doped CuO@Co3O4@Ni(OH)2 Heterostructure for Rechargeable Zn-NO3 <sup>−</sup>/5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Multielectron Transfer Systems**

*Wenbiao Wang, Fan Bai, [Kaibin Chu,](https://orcid.org/0009-0004-0439-1800)\* Meiqing Cai, Xiangya Xu,\* Zifang Guo, Ximin Zhang, Jingjing Qin, Youbing Huang, and [Jun-Ling Song\\*](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6948-4862)*

**Abstract:** Electrocatalytic coupling of nitrate reduction (NO3RR) to ammonia with 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) oxidation to 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) enables simultaneous wastewater remediation and biomass valorization. However, developing efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts for these multiproton-coupled electron transfer reactions remains challenging as conventional single-active-site catalysts inherently suffer from linear scaling relationships between intermediates and adsorption energies, particularly sluggish proton transfer. To address this, we engineered a triphasic Ndoped CuO@Co3O4@Ni(OH)2 heterostructure with a gradient built-in electric field (BIEF), which synergistically enhances interfacial charge polarization and accelerates proton transport through dynamic coupling effects in both reactions: sufficient \*H supply for NO3RR and fast Ni(OH)2/NiOOH redox cycling during HMF oxidation (HMFOR), thus achieving unprecedented bifunctional performance: at − 0.4 V versus RHE, Faradaic efficiency (FE) for NH3 reaches 96.49% with a yield rate of 45.36 mg h−<sup>1</sup> cm−2; under 1.53 V versus RHE, the FDCA FE achieves 95.23% with a yield of 95.24%. The bifunctional design reduces energy consumption by 31.39% at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> in a NO3RR||HMFOR flow electrolyzer compared to traditional electrolytic water splitting. A rechargeable Zn-NO3 <sup>−</sup>/HMF battery shows 70–280 mV lower charging potential with exceptional cycling stability (>450 cycles). This work provides a new design paradigm for bifunctional electrocatalysts in sustainable energy conversion and waste valorization.

#### *Introduction*

The escalating carbon and nitrogen emissions from human activities have precipitated severe environmental crises, necessitating sustainable resource cycling to achieve carbon neutrality and balanced nitrogen cycles. Promising strategies include sustainable biomass utilization and converting nitrate (NO3 <sup>−</sup>) contaminants into valuable resources while concurrently generating electric energy.[\[1,2\]](#page-10-0) Especially, this synergistic electrocatalytic process combines nitrate reduction with biomass oxidation, achieving concurrent wastewater purification and value-added products:[\[3,4\]](#page-11-0) i) NH3 from NO3 reduction (NO3RR)—an essential feedstock for fertilizers

International Joint Research Center for Photoresponsive Molecules and Materials, School of Chemical and Material Engineering, Jiangnan University, Lihu Street 1800, Wuxi 214122, P.R. China

Dr. F. Bai, Dr. X. Xu, Prof. Z. Guo SINOPEC Beijing Research Institute of Chemical Industry, Beijing 100013, P.R. China

[\*] W. Wang, M. Cai, X. Zhang, Y. Huang, Prof. Dr. J.-L. Song

E-mail: [xuxy.bjhy@sinopec.com](mailto:xuxy.bjhy@sinopec.com)

E-mail: [jlsong@jiangnan.edu.cn](mailto:jlsong@jiangnan.edu.cn)

Dr. K. Chu, Dr. J. Qin

School of Materials Science and Engineering, Linyi University, Linyi 276000, P.R. China

E-mail: [chukaibin@lyu.edu.cn](mailto:chukaibin@lyu.edu.cn)

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section

and industry[\[5,6\]](#page-11-0) ; ii) FDCA from HMF oxidation (HMFOR) a key monomer for biodegradable plastics[\[7,8\]](#page-11-0) Thus, bifunctional electrocatalysts balancing efficiency, stability, and cost are crucial to surpass monofunctional systems. Significantly, the emerging Zn-NO3 <sup>−</sup> batteries (ZNBs) combining NO3RR and HMFOR will offer advantages in energy storage, chemical synthesis, and waste valorization, drawing significant research attention.[\[9–13\]](#page-11-0) Nevertheless, ZNBs also face a critical challenge: the inherently sluggish kinetics of multiprotoncoupled electron transfer (PCET) processes in both reactions introduce substantial kinetic barriers and promote undesirable side reactions, ultimately impairing catalytic efficiency. These sequential PCET processes necessitate electrocatalysts with spatially isolated active sites to decouple proton/electron transfer and overcome proton transport kinetic bottlenecks. The inherent structural limitations of conventional single-site catalysts preclude fulfillment of these requirements, severely limiting their bifunctional performance (Figure [1a\)](#page-1-0). For example, NO3RR relies on proton-activated surface active hydrogen (\*H) but often suffers from insufficient proton supply.[\[14\]](#page-11-0) In contrast, HMFOR demonstrates enhanced efficiency on electrode surfaces with rich hydroxide reconstruction. However, sluggish proton transfer kinetics hinder catalyst reconstruction, ultimately hampering HMFOR activity.[\[15\]](#page-11-0) Thus, addressing these coupled proton constraints is pivotal for advancing bifunctional catalysts tailored for both reactions.

Current research has revealed that spatially decoupled intermediate shuttling dynamics can disrupt the linear

<span id="page-1-0"></span>*Figure 1.* Preparation and characterizations of electrocatalysts. a) Schematic diagram of single-site catalysts and triple-phase heterostructures for bifunctional NO3RR/HMFOR applications. b) Schematic diagram of CuCoNi heterostructure architecture for highly-efficient bifunctional catalytic mechanism. c) Stained HRTEM image of the hierarchical CuCoNi heterostructure electrocatalyst with corresponding lattice fringe patterns obtained through fast Fourier transform (FFT) filtering and inverse FFT reconstruction from a representative region. In the HRTEM image, the inner blue layer corresponds to N-CuO, the intermediate orange-yellow layer to Co3O4, and the outer red layer to Ni(OH)2. d) Diagram of lattice distance measurement process for CuCoNi layered structure. e) High-angle annular dark-field TEM (HAADF-TEM) image and corresponding elemental mapping images of Cu, Co, Ni, N, O. f) The KPFM image of CuCoNi and cross-sectional CPD line scan analysis. g) UPS spectra of the CuCoNi heterostructure. h) Comparative Co 2p XPS profiles between CuCo and CuCoNi.

scaling relationships in intermediate adsorption energetics. Especially, bicomponent catalytic systems enable dynamic migration of intermediate products across discrete active sites, thereby demonstrating superior performance in driving multistep reactions compared to mono-component catalysts.[\[16\]](#page-11-0) For instance, Ni3N support facilitates \*H generation and spillover to Cu clusters through Ni─N─Cu bonds,[\[17\]](#page-11-0) enhancing intermediate protonation and overcoming the proton supply limitation in pure Cu systems due to NO2 <sup>−</sup> accumulation.[\[18–20\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, the strategic integration of Cu with transition metals (e.g., Co, Ni) synergistically modulates electronic environments and creates tandem catalytic pathways.[\[20–22\]](#page-11-0) Furthermore, under anode conditions, the incorporated Co and Ni species electrochemically restructure into CoOOH 15213773, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

and NiOOH, serving as active sites for indirect organic substrate oxidation.[\[23,24\]](#page-11-0) Besides, heterostructured electrocatalysts boost performance via electronic and interfacial modulation, optimizing reaction kinetics. Notably, the spontaneously formed built-in electric fields (BIEF) in Mott– Schottky heterojunctions, driven by small work function differences (-), mitigate charge accumulation and drastically reduce the hydrogen spillover barrier, synergistically accelerating spillover, enhancing charge transfer, and enriching local reactants, significantly boosting electrocatalytic performance.[\[25–29\]](#page-11-0) Remarkably, in Ru-CoP heterostructures, Ru-to-CoP hydrogen spillover markedly enhances alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) kinetics.[\[25\]](#page-11-0) Similarly, the built-in polarization field in MoS2/NiPS3 heterostructures promotes \*OH and \*OOH deprotonation via dual-pathway mechanisms.[\[26\]](#page-11-0) Despite advances in binary heterostructures for optimizing half-reactions, their simultaneous NH3 and FDCA electrosynthesis remains hindered by insufficient active sites, kinetic limitations, and proton competition. Developing multi-interfacial electrocatalysts combining NO3RR and HMFOR components is therefore crucial yet challenging to enhance multi-PCET processes via synergistic interfacial effects.

Herein, we present a triphasic N-doped CuO@Co3O4 @Ni(OH)2 heterostructure (denoted as CuCoNi) on nickel foam (NF) as a bifunctional platform for coupled NO3RR and HMFOR. The BIEF dually modulates charge density distribution through electronic configuration optimization while enhancing proton flux via dynamic interfacial coupling (Figure [1b\)](#page-1-0). This synergistic effect enables CuCoNi to achieve exceptional performance in both NO3RR (NH3 Faradaic efficiency (FE): 96.49%, yield rate: 45.36 mg h−<sup>1</sup> cm−<sup>2</sup> at −0.4 V versus RHE) and HMFOR (FDCA FE: 95.23%, yield: 95.24% at 1.53 V versus RHE), outperforming most reported state-of-the-art electrocatalysts. This unique heterostructure enables stable operation (>140 h at 50 mA cm−2) in a flow electrolyzer co-producing NH3 and FDCA. Density functional theory (DFT) reveals that the Ni(OH)2 component lowers the H2O dissociation barrier, optimizes the d-band center, and enhances proton transport across interfaces, thus improving the energy barriers of rate-determining steps (RDS) for both initial 2e<sup>−</sup> and subsequent 6e<sup>−</sup> hydrogenation in NO3RR. Additionally, integrating HMF into the NO3RR electrolyte facilitates a rechargeable Zn-NO3 <sup>−</sup> battery, replacing oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with HMFOR during charging and reducing the charging potential by 70–280 mV.

#### *Results and Discussion*

#### *Synthesis and Characterization of the CuCoNi Bifunctional Electrocatalyst*

The stepwise fabrication of bifunctional electrocatalyst N-doped CuO@Co3O4@Ni(OH)2 (CuCoNi) is illustrated in Figure S1, and scanning electron microscope (SEM; Figures S2–S5) reveals its surface morphological evolution. The synthesis begins with the in situ growth of uniform copper hydroxynitrate (Cu2(OH)3(NO3)) rod-like structures on NF (CuNH; Figure S2a–c) via nitrate-mediated molten salt synthesis. Subsequently, Co species were electrodeposited onto CuNH to form CuCo-pre precursor (Figure S2d–f), where an activation polarization-induced dissolution-recrystallization dynamics increased surface roughness.[\[30\]](#page-11-0) Controlled calcination of CuCo-pre yielded N-doped CuO@Co3O4 heterostructure (denoted as CuCo; Figure S2g–i), which retained its original rod-like morphology while exhibiting a surface uniformly decorated with Co3O4 nanoparticles. The preserved rod-like morphology of CuCo results from Co-induced structural reconstruction of damaged CuO frameworks during calcination, which might simultaneously enhance active site accessibility and mass transport.[\[31,32\]](#page-11-0) Finally, hydrothermal Ni(OH)2 anchoring on CuCo yielded the triphasic N-doped CuO@Co3O4@Ni(OH)2 heterostructure featuring surfaceattached dense nanosheets (Figure S3). Control samples of N-doped CuO (N-CuO) and N-doped CuO@Ni(OH)2 (CuNi) were similarly prepared (Figures S4 and S5).

The synthesized electrocatalysts were characterized by XRD (Figure S6a), revealing characteristic peaks corresponding to monoclinic CuO (PDF#97–006–9094), spinel Co3O4 (PDF#97–000–9362), and 3Ni(OH)2·2H2O (PDF#00– 022–0444). Notably, the signal peaks for 3Ni(OH)2·2H2O and CuO in CuCoNi both shift positively (Figure S6b,c), indicating lattice strain at the heterointerface.[\[33\]](#page-11-0) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image further illustrates that the CuCoNi exhibits rod-like morphology with adhered sheet structures (Figure S7). Meanwhile, high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images reveal well-defined light-dark interfaces, confirming the hierarchical structure (Figure [1c\)](#page-1-0). HRTEM analysis reveals distinct lattice spacings of 0.253, 0.227, and 0.193 nm within the innermost dark region, corresponding to the (101), ¯ (111), and (202) plane of CuO; 0.247 nm in the intermediate ¯ layer, assigned to the (311) plane of Co3O4, and 0.213, 0.239, and 0.251 nm in the outermost layer, matching the (103), (200), and (111) planes of 3Ni(OH)2·2H2O (Figures [1d](#page-1-0) and S8a), respectively. The corresponding diffraction rings in selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) further verify these results (Figure S8b). Additionally, TEM-EDS elemental mapping reveals a uniform distribution of Cu, Co, Ni, N, and O across the catalyst, confirming the successful synthesis of the CuCoNi electrocatalyst (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0).

To probe the BIEF in the CuCoNi electrocatalyst, Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) first mapped its surface potential distribution. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) revealed rod-like structures with dimensions matching TEM observations (Figure S9). KPFM further reveals significant surface potential inhomogeneity across the CuCoNi hierarchical triple-phase heterostructure (Figure [1f\)](#page-1-0), with a contact potential difference (CPD) of up to 41.1 mV between inner and outer layers, confirming the presence of BIEF. Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) measurements of the secondary electron cutoff (*E*cutoff) for individual N-CuO, Co3O4, and Ni(OH)2 revealed work functions ( = 21.22 eV − *E*cutoff) of 4.48, 4.39, and 3.72 eV (Figure [1g\)](#page-1-0), respectively.[\[34,35\]](#page-11-0) The resulting work function gradient drives spontaneous electron transfer from Ni(OH)2 (lower ) to N-CuO (higher ) upon heterojunction formation. This charge redistribution establishes a cascade-enhanced built-in electric field

Angewandte
International Edition Chemie

across Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to N-CuO, promoting charge separation and boosting electrocatalytic efficiency.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed to systematically probe the surface chemical states of the CuCoNi electrocatalyst. The Cu 2p spectrum (Figure S10a) exhibits characteristic peaks at 934.72 and 933.26 eV, corresponding to Cu<sup>2+</sup> 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and Cu<sup>1+</sup>/Cu<sup>0</sup> 2p<sub>3/2</sub>, respectively. Moreover, the  $Cu^{2+}/Cu^{\delta+}$  ( $\delta = 0, 1$ ) ratio derived from CuLMM Auger spectra progressively increases from 0.25 in Ndoped CuO to 0.41 in CuCo and further to 0.55 in CuNi (Figure \$10b). This demonstrates that incorporating Co and Ni species effectively modulates the valence states and local electronic structure of Cu sites. Meanwhile, the Co 2p spectra (Figure 1h) reveal a Co<sup>3+</sup>/Co<sup>2+</sup> ratio of 2.06 for CuCo and 1.84 for CuCoNi, further indicating that Ni incorporation enhances charge polarization through intensified electron redistribution effects. Further, XPS analysis reveals pronounced interfacial charge redistribution in the CuCoNi heterostructure, as evidenced by distinct peak shifts (Table S1). Compared to pristine N-CuO, the Cu 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks (corresponding to Cu<sup>2+</sup> and Cu<sup>1+</sup>/Cu<sup>0</sup>) in CuCo, CuNi, and CuCoNi systems show uniform negative binding energy shifts, suggesting electron enrichment at Cu sites. Obviously, the CuCoNi demonstrates: i) negative shifts in Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks (Co<sup>3+</sup>/Co<sup>2+</sup>) relative to CuCo, ii) a positive shift in the Ni2+ 2p3/2 peak compared to CuNi (Figure \$11), and iii) further negative shifts in Cu 2p<sub>3/2</sub> peaks versus bimetallic counterparts. This  $Ni(OH)_2 \rightarrow Co_3O_4 \rightarrow N-CuO$  electron redistribution pattern confirms cascade charge transfer and the directional BIEF in the CuCoNi heterostructure, consistent with the above KPFM and UPS results. Additionally, the N 1s XPS spectrum of CuCoNi reveals the presence of diverse chemical states of nitrogen dopants (Figure \$12a), effectively generating abundant oxygen vacancies (Figure S12b and S13). These vacancies will promote active site exposure and enhance reactant adsorption.[36-38]

#### Cathodic Electrocatalytic NO<sub>3</sub>RR Performance

The NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance of the as-prepared electrocatalysts was assessed in an H-cell. Figure 2a presents the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) profiles of N-CuO and CuCoNi catalysts in Ar-saturated 1 M NaOH with and without 50 mM NaNO<sub>3</sub>. Notably, both catalysts exhibited substantially enhanced current densities in the presence of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, confirming their intrinsic NO<sub>3</sub>RR activity. Remarkably, CuCoNi achieved a current density of -650.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at -0.4 V versus RHE, surpassing N-CuO by 202.4 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a ~45% enhancement in activity. Especially, this triple-phase heterojunction outperformed its binary counterparts CuCo (-630.4 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and CuNi (-349.2 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), highlighting the synergistic effect of concurrent Co/Ni incorporation (Figure \$14). Moreover, Tafel analysis (Figure S15) revealed that CuCoNi exhibited the lowest Tafel slope (144 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating optimized reaction kinetics due to heterojunction-induced charge transfer driven by gradient interfacial charge polarization.<sup>[27,28]</sup>

The NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance was further quantified through chronoamperometric coupled with UV-vis analysis of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> concentrations (Figures S16–S18). As illustrated in Figures 2b and S19a, the NH3 yield rate of CuCoNi under different applied potentials is significantly higher than that of N-CuO, CuNi, and CuCo, and it increases with the applied potential, reaching 46.33 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> at -0.5 V versus RHE. Figure 2c presents the FEs for NH<sub>3</sub> (FE-NH<sub>3</sub>) and NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> (FE-NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>) production at different potentials. The FE-NH<sub>3</sub> of CuCoNi is significantly higher than other samples across varying potentials, exhibiting a volcanic trend that peaks at 94.54% (-0.4 V versus RHE) with an NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate of 44.15 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>. By employing an acid trap to recover escaping NH<sub>3</sub> gas (Figure S20), the total NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate reached 45.36 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> at -0.4 V versus RHE, corresponding to an FE-NH<sub>3</sub> of 96.49%. Additionally, the FE-NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> of CuCoNi is significantly lower at various potentials compared to other samples, suggesting that the synergistic incorporation of Co and Ni species promotes NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> conversion and enhances NH<sub>3</sub> selectivity. The NH<sub>3</sub> and  $NO_2^-$  partial current density ratio  $[j(NH_3)/j(NO_2^-)]$  of each catalyst at different potentials is further depicted in Figure 2d. The result shows that individual Co or Ni incorporation minimally affects  $j(NH_3)/j(NO_2^-)$ , while the Co-Ni bimetallic co-modification enhances this ratio by 2.32-fold at -0.4 V versus RHE (versus N-CuO), highlighting their synergy in boosting NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub> conversion efficiency. Meanwhile, CuNi exhibits the lowest overall NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance (Figure S19b,c), predominantly due to intense HER competition and the reduced exposure of Cu active species (Figures S21–S23).

Electrochemical analysis suggests that the improved NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance of CuCoNi catalyst likely originates from the Co-Ni synergy, which markedly increases the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA), thereby offering more active sites (Figure S24). Meanwhile, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) revealed significantly lower charge transfer resistance in the CuCoNi system (Figure \$25), indicating its well-ordered BIEF architecture enhances reaction kinetics through synergistic electronic effects. To elucidate the nitrogen source of electrochemically producedNH<sub>3</sub>, we conducted sotopic tracer experiments using <sup>15</sup>NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> and <sup>14</sup>NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> as N sources under identical electrolysis conditions. The <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectrum of the electrolyte (Figure 2e) displayed well-resolved doublet and triplet peaks corresponding to <sup>15</sup>NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> and <sup>14</sup>NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>, respectively, with no detectable impurity signals. Control tests at open-circuit or without NO<sub>3</sub>showed negligible NH<sub>3</sub> (Figure S26), excluding contamination or electrode dissolution as sources. Additionally, the bare NF substrate showed negligible NO<sub>3</sub>RR activity (Figure S27), demonstrating that the superior catalytic performance arises from the intrinsic synergy of triple-phase heterostructure. To assess the NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance of the CuCoNi catalyst in neutral wastewater, we performed electrochemical tests in 1 M PBS (pH = 7) with 50 mM  $NO_3^-$  (Figure S28). The CuCoNi catalyst demonstrated excellent performance (Figure 2f), maintaining an FE-NH<sub>3</sub> >92.80% over a broad potential range (-0.4 to -0.8 V versus RHE), with a peak efficiency of 97.20% at -0.7 V and an NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate of 32.77 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>. Thus, this CuCoNi exhibits remarkable versatility for alkaline and neutral wastewater treatment. Furthermore, long-term stability assessment revealed excellent durability. At -0.4 V

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 2. Electrocatalytic performance of NO<sub>3</sub>RR. a) LSV curves of N-CuO and CuCoNi in 1 M NaOH with and without 0.05 M NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> (w/o means without). b) NH<sub>3</sub> yield rates, and c) FEs of various electrocatalysts (N-CuO, CuCo, and CuCoNi) at different applied potentials. d) The partial current density ratio of NH<sub>3</sub> and NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> [j(NH<sub>3</sub>)/j(NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>)] for electrocatalysts at different potentials. e) <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectra of electrolytes using <sup>15</sup>NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> and <sup>14</sup>NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> as reaction N sources over CuCoNi. f) NH<sub>3</sub> yield rates and FEs of CuCoNi in neutral 1 M PBS (pH = 7) with 0.05 M NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> at varying potentials. g) Stability evaluation of CuCoNi at -0.4 V versus RHE: NH<sub>3</sub> yield rates and FEs during 15 consecutive recycling tests. h) Benchmarking of NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance against recent state-of-the-art heterojunction electrocatalysts.

versus RHE over 15 consecutive cycles, the NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate stabilized at 41.14 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> (86.24% retention), while the FE-NH<sub>3</sub> and electrolytic current density exhibited negligible degradation (Figures 2g and S29). Post-electrolysis characterization revealed the structural and compositional integrity of CuCoNi (Figures S30–S34), ensuring its outstanding stability. Notably, CuCoNi outperforms most reported NO<sub>3</sub>RR benchmark electrocatalysts, including heterojunction and self-supported architectures. (Figures 2h and S35, Tables S2 and S3).

# Anodic Electrocatalytic HMFOR Performance and Construction of Coupled Electrolytic System

The anodic electrocatalytic oxidation performance of the bifunctional CuCoNi electrocatalyst was evaluated using HMFOR in a standard three-electrode H-cell. Figure 3a shows the LSV curves of CuCoNi in 1 M NaOH with and

without 20 mM HMF. Without HMF, the oxidation peak at ~1.50 V versus RHE corresponds to Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> oxidation. [39] Notably, HMF introduction boosted the current density, lowering the potential required for 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> by 275 mV, indicating its exceptional HMFOR activity. Chronoamperometric HMFOR was performed at varying potentials, with reaction products quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) coupled with ultraviolet detection (Figures \$36 and \$37). The CuCoNi catalyst exhibited nearquantitative HMF conversion (~100%) across a broad potential window (1.43-1.63 V versus RHE), and the FDCA yield and FE both reached their maximum values of 95.24% and 95.23%, respectively, at 1.53 V versus RHE (Figure 3b). Comparative analysis with control catalysts (N-CuO, CuCo, CuNi) revealed the superior activity of CuCoNi, delivering FDCA yield rates 4.85-fold, 1.84-fold, and 1.97-fold higher than N-CuO, CuNi, and CuCo, respectively (Figure \$38), suggesting synergistic Co/Ni effects. Electrolysis with varying HMF concentrations (5 and 50 mM) yielded high FDCA FE (90.85%

15213773, 2025. 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-5-0"></span>*Figure 3.* Electrocatalytic HMFOR performance and coupled system for co-production of FDCA and NH3. a) LSV curves of CuCoNi in 1 M NaOH with and without 0.02 M HMF. b) FDCA yields, FEs, and HMF conversion rates of CuCoNi at different potentials. c) Cyclic stability of FDCA yields and FEs for CuCoNi at 1.53 V versus RHE over 10 consecutive tests. d) Distribution of HMFOR products during the HMFOR process on CuCoNi at 1.53 V versus RHE. e) LSV curves of NO3RR||HMFOR and HER||OER coupled systems, dashed line marks 10 mA cm−2. f) The NH3 yield rates and FEs of the NO3RR||HMFOR system under different voltages. g) The FDCA yield rates and FEs of the NO3RR||HMFOR system on the anode side under identical conditions. h) Long-term stability test of CuCoNi at 50 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> with periodic electrolyte renewal (24 h constitutes one cycle, and the electrolyte is refreshed during each cycle).

and 84.02%, respectively), suggesting robust HMFOR performance of CuCoNi across different substrate concentrations (Figure S39). The slight decline in HMFOR efficiency at elevated concentrations arises from HMF dimerization.[\[40,41\]](#page-11-0) Notably, CuCoNi demonstrated pronounced cycling stability over 10 electrolysis cycles at 1.53 V versus RHE, maintaining >93% FDCA yield and FE while preserving structural integrity (Figures S40–S44). HMFOR has two possible reaction pathways due to its aldehyde and hydroxyl groups (Figure S45). The initial two-electron reaction process may generate 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furan carboxylic acid (HMFCA) or 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF), corresponding to the HMFCA and DFF pathways, respectively.[\[41\]](#page-11-0) At 1.53 V versus RHE in 1 M NaOH and 20 mM HMF, the HMFOR product distribution over CuCoNi varies with charge amount (Figure 3d), while the corresponding HPLC peak dynamics are detailed in Figure S46. With increasing charge, the HMF concentration in the electrolyte progressively decreased until full conversion, while FDCA formation gradually increased. Remarkably, HMFCA levels consistently exceeded those of FFCA and DFF throughout electrolysis, suggesting that the HMFOR process on CuCoNi follows a dominant aldehyde group-prioritized oxidation pathway via HMFCA.

Electrocatalytic oxidation often involves electrochemical reconstruction to form high-valent metal oxyhydroxides (M3+-OOH), which subsequently drive indirect chemical oxidation pathways.[\[42–44\]](#page-11-0) To elucidate the synergistic mechanism and active species in CuCoNi during HMFOR, in situ Raman tests were conducted in 1 M NaOH with/without 20 mM HMF (Figure S47). While CuCo showed no distinct peaks, both CuNi and CuCoNi exhibited potential-dependent characteristic peaks at 463 and 551 cm−1, assigned to Ni3+- O species.[\[44\]](#page-11-0) The addition of HMF suppressed these peaks at identical potentials, confirming Ni<sup>3</sup>+OOH as the true active species. Importantly, without HMF substrate, CuCoNi displayed stronger Ni3+-O signals than CuNi at the same potential, indicating the introduced Co3O4 promotes Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> deprotonation and oxidation to Ni3+. In the presence of HMF, 15213773, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

CuCoNi showed significantly greater peak attenuation versus CuNi, indicating enhanced Ni<sup>3+</sup> utilization. This reveals that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> facilitates Ni<sup>2+</sup> regeneration after dehydrogenation process during HMFOR.<sup>[45]</sup> Meanwhile, multistep chronopotentiometry results reveal that N-CuO and CuCo only exhibited weak M<sup>3+</sup>-OOH formation/electroreduction signals, whereas CuNi and CuCoNi exhibit pronounced activity (Figure S48a, c, e).[42,46,47] Upon introducing 20 mM HMF, the Ni<sup>3+</sup>-OOH electroreduction signal disappeared entirely (Figure \$48d,h), demonstrating its role as the active species in HMFOR. CuCoNi showed a stronger Ni<sup>3+</sup>-OOH signal than CuNi, suggesting Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> accelerates Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-to-Ni<sup>3+</sup>-OOH kinetic conversion via optimized proton dissociation pathways. The Tafel slope for Ni3+ reduction to Ni2+ in CuCoNi is less than half that of CuNi (Figure \$49). This indicates that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> enhances proton capture by Ni<sup>3+</sup>-OOH during HMFOR, enabling rapid Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> regeneration. [48] These results demonstrate that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> triggers proton transfer kinetics, promoting the reversible Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni<sup>3+</sup>-OOH cycle and synergistically enhancing HMFOR efficiency for FDCA production.

To further clarify the interfacial effects and enhanced bidirectional proton transfer kinetics in the CuCoNi heterostructure for efficient HMFOR-to-FDCA conversion, Mott-Schottky analysis and UV-vis diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) were performed to probe the band structure configuration. Figure \$50 reveals N-CuO as an n-type semiconductor (positive slope), whereas Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> display p-type behavior (negative slope), and CuCoNi exhibits an inverted V-shaped Mott-Schottky plot, confirming p-n heterojunction formation.<sup>[49]</sup> UPS analysis of N-CuO, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> quantified the energy separation ( $\Delta E$ ) between their Fermi levels and valence band edges, enabling precise determination of the valence band maxima ( $E_{VB}$ ). Tauc plots derived from UV-vis diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) (Figure S51) provided reliable bandgap ( $E_g$ ) estimates.<sup>[50]</sup> The conduction band minimum ( $E_{\rm CB}$ ) positions were derived from  $E_{\rm VB}$  and  $E_{\rm g}$  ( $E_{\rm CB}=E_{\rm VB}-E_{\rm g}$ ), collectively defining the precontact band alignment (Figure \$52a) and revealing notable Fermi-level offsets. Upon intimate interfacial contact, two distinct heterojunctions form: a p-n junction between N-CuO and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and a p-p junction between Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure S52b). The significant Fermi level differences induced spontaneous band bending and established a BIEF across the heterostructure. This interfacial field could facilitate directional charge transfer from Ni(OH)2 to N-CuO through the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> mediator, while promoting proton transport by reducing the hydrogen spillover barrier due to small work function differences among the triple-phase components.[27-29] Consequently, this tandem BIEF system plays a pivotal role in facilitating rapid proton transport during the PCET process, substantially accelerating proton transfer kinetics throughout the reversible Ni<sup>2+</sup>(OH)<sub>2</sub>/Ni<sup>3+</sup>OOH redox cycle. Simultaneously, BIEF-induced charge redistribution creates an electron-depleted region at the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> interface, generating highly positive active sites that promote OH<sup>-</sup> adsorption and HMF activation.<sup>[51]</sup> This synergistic effect may contribute to the subsequent oxidation process involving Ni<sup>3+</sup>OOH species, substantially boosting HMFOR catalytic performance.

Given the notable performance of CuCoNi in both NO3RR and HMFOR, a NO3RRIIHMFOR coupled electrolysis system was constructed using CuCoNi as both the cathode and anode in a flow electrolytic cell (Figure \$53). As shown in Figures 3e and \$54a, the coupled system achieved 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a low cell voltage of 1.174 V, outperforming NO<sub>3</sub>RR||OER (1.462 V), HER||HMFOR (1.409 V), and HERIIOER (1.711 V) systems. This represents a 537 mV reduction in overpotential and a 31.39% energy saving compared to conventional HER||OER systems (Figure \$54b). Notably, the NO<sub>3</sub>RR||HMFOR system requires a lower voltage (10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) than most state-of-the-art bifunctional electrocatalyst-based coupling electrolysis systems (Figure \$55, Table \$4). Additionally, the NH<sub>3</sub> and FDCA produced by the coupled electrolysis at different voltages were detected (Figure 3f,g). The FE for NH<sub>3</sub> production peaked at 95.77% under 1.7 V, with an NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate of 3.58 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>, representing the highest performance in NO<sub>3</sub>RR electrocatalysis, and the anode achieved a FE of 92.93% for FDCA production at 1.8 V, with a yield rate of 53.34 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>. At a renewable electricity price of US\$0.03 kWh<sup>-1</sup>, the NO<sub>3</sub>RR||HMFOR system achieves an energy consumption of 22.39 kWh kg<sup>-1</sup> NH<sub>3</sub> and a production cost of US\$0.67 kg $^{-1}$  NH $_3$  at 1.7 V, $^{[52]}$  significantly lower than the current commercial price ( $\sim$ US\$1.0-1.5 kg $^{-1}$ ).[53] Moreover, the concurrent high-value FDCA production at the anode further improves economic feasibility. Critically, during six consecutive chronopotentiometric tests (>140 h total) at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the system maintained a stable operating voltage (Figure 3h), confirming durability for practical application.

#### Assembly of Rechargeable Zn-NO<sub>x</sub> - Battery

Leveraging the exceptional NO<sub>3</sub>RR performance of CuCoNi, we assembled a rechargeable Zn-NO<sub>x</sub><sup>-</sup> (x = 2, 3) battery using a CuCoNi cathode (in 1 M KOH + 100 mM NaNO<sub>x</sub>) and a polished Zn anode (in 1 M KOH +  $20 \text{ mM Zn}(\text{CH}_3\text{COO})_2$ ). The assembled Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery and Zn-NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> battery exhibited high open-circuit potentials (OCP) of 1.42 V and 1.40 V (versus Zn<sup>2+</sup>/Zn), respectively, and maintained relatively stable performance over 10 hours (Figure 4a). The Zn-NO<sub>2</sub>-battery exhibits a lower OCP than the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub>system due to the less favorable reduction potential of NO<sub>2</sub>to NH<sub>3</sub> relative to NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> to NH<sub>3</sub>.<sup>[54,55]</sup> Figure 4b presents the discharge curves of the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery and Zn-NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> battery from the OCP to 5 mV versus Zn<sup>2+</sup>/Zn. The output current of these batteries increased with negative voltage, achieving peak power densities of 7.41 and 4.83 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at current densities of 23.66 and 15 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. In the constant current discharge tests at different current densities, the voltage responses of the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery and Zn-NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> battery were stable (Figure 4c), demonstrating their robust rate performance.

To assess the  $NH_3$  production performance of the assembled  $Zn-NO_x^-$  battery and investigate the  $NO_3RR$  behavior of CuCoNi during the discharge process, the contents of  $NH_3$  and  $NO_2^-$  in the electrolyte were measured after 1 hour of constant-current discharge at various current densities. For

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 4. Assembly and performance of rechargeable  $Zn-NO_3^-$  batteries. a) The OCP profiles of rechargeable  $Zn-NO_3^-$  and  $Zn-NO_2^-$  batteries over 10 h. Inset: Digital photos of the constructed rechargeable  $Zn-NO_3^-$  (red line) and  $Zn-NO_2^-$  (blue line) batteries. b) Discharge curves (OCP to 0.005 V versus  $Zn^{2+}/Zn$ ) and corresponding power density profiles of rechargeable  $Zn-NO_3^-$  and  $Zn-NO_2^-$  batteries using CuCoNi. c) Rate capability of rechargeable  $Zn-NO_3^-$  and  $Zn-NO_2^-$  batteries under discharge at varied current densities. d)  $NH_3/NO_2^-$  yield rates and FE-NH $_3$  during galvanostatic discharge of the  $Zn-NO_3^-$  battery at 20 mA cm $^{-2}$ . e)  $NH_3$  yield rates and FEs of the  $Zn-NO_3^-$  battery over 5 cycles at 20 mA cm $^{-2}$ . Each cycle lasts 10 h. f) Demonstration of the  $Zn-NO_3^-$  batteries powering an electronic timer, mini-fan, and LEDs. g) Schematic of a  $Zn-NO_3^-/OS$  battery utilizing organic substrate (OS) oxidation for energy-efficient charging. h) Long-term charge/discharge cycling stability test of rechargeable  $Zn-NO_3^-$  and  $Zn-NO_3^-/HMF$  batteries at different current densities. Each cycle comprises 5 min of galvanostatic discharge followed by 5 min of recharge.

the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery, NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> was the major product while the yield rate of NH<sub>3</sub> was extremely low (Figure S56a). Furthermore, a neutral Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery exhibited a similar product distribution to its alkaline counterpart (Figure S57). In contrast, the Zn-NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> battery achieved a FE for NH<sub>3</sub> of nearly 100% at 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S56b). This suggests that the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery discharge follows a two-step discharge process involving  $2e^-$  ( $NO_3^- \rightarrow NO_2^-$ ) and  $6e^ (NO_2^- \rightarrow NH_3)$  reactions, where the initial  $2e^-$  step predominates as the rate-limiting step and limits the faster 6e<sup>-</sup> conversion. This observation suggests a cascade catalytic mechanism of CuCoNi in the NO<sub>3</sub>RR process, consistent with previous reports.<sup>[56]</sup> Extended galvanostatic discharge at 20 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> revealed progressive accumulation of NH<sub>3</sub> in the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery, reaching a peak FE-NH<sub>3</sub> of 86.40% at 10 h, corresponding to an NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate of 1.37 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4d). Five consecutive cycles demonstrated exceptional stability, with negligible voltage decay in discharge profiles and consistent NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate/FE-NH<sub>3</sub> (Figures 4e and S58). Furthermore, the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> batteries show long-term power delivery capabilities for commercial electronics (e.g., timer, fan, and LEDs; Figure 4f), demonstrating their viability as a sustainable energy supply.

During charging in conventional Zn-NO<sub>x</sub><sup>-</sup> batteries, the OER imposes a high overpotential at the cathode chamber. To maximize the bifunctional electrocatalytic activity of CuCoNi, an organic small-molecule substrate with a low oxidation potential was incorporated into the cathode of conventional rechargeable Zn-NO<sub>x</sub><sup>-</sup> battery (Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>/OS battery). This approach exploits the faster kinetics of the organic molecule oxidation (SOR) compared to OER during charging (Figure 4g). LSV of CuCoNi in 1 M KOH confirms significantly enhanced current densities in the presence of HMF, methanol, ethanol, and urea compared to the blank

15213773, 2025. 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

15213773, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/adv10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (05/01/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

### Research Article

control (Figure \$59), validating the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub>-/OS battery concept for reducing energy consumption. Typically, we incorporated HMF into the cathode of a conventional rechargeable Zn-NO<sub>x</sub> battery to construct a Zn-NO<sub>3</sub> /HMF hybrid battery. Although strong HMF adsorption on CuCoNi electrode surface reduces both OCP and peak power density compared to Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> battery (Figure \$60), the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>/HMF battery maintains uncompromised NH<sub>3</sub> production efficiency during discharge while co-producing valuable HMFCA/FDCA during charging (Figure S61). Crucially, during extended cycling at varying current densities, the Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>/HMF battery demonstrated charge plateaus 70-280 mV lower than those of conventional rechargeable Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> batteries (Figure 4h), indicating superior energy efficiency during charging. The Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>/HMF battery demonstrates exceptional cycling stability (>450 cycles at 0.5 A cm<sup>-2</sup> and >300 cycles at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>; Figure S62), outperforming most reported Zn-NO<sub>x</sub><sup>-</sup> systems (Figure S63, Table S5). Notably, integrating methanol, ethanol, or urea into the cathode universally lowers charging plateaus compared to conventional Zn-NO<sub>3</sub> batteries (Figure S64), indicating the broad applicability of this energy-saving organic substrate strategy.

### Mechanism Research and DFT Calculation of NO<sub>3</sub>RR

To elucidate the tandem catalytic mechanism of the hierarchical CuCoNi electrocatalyst and the role of Ni(OH)2 in NO<sub>3</sub>RR, systematic experimental and DFT investigations were conducted. First, the nitrite reduction (NO<sub>2</sub>RR) performance of the catalysts was evaluated in 1 M NaOH + 0.05 M NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>. As shown in Figure 5a,b, CuCoNi exhibited significantly higher NH<sub>3</sub> yield rates and NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> conversion rates than N-CuO and CuNi across -0.1 to -0.5 V versus RHE, confirming that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> accelerates the six-electron reduction of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> to NH<sub>3</sub>, forming a tandem catalytic pathway with the initial two-electron reduction  $(NO_3^- \rightarrow NO_2^-)$  on N-CuO. DFT calculations further reveal that on CuO, the energy barrier for \*NO<sub>2</sub> $\rightarrow$ \*NOOH ( $\Delta G = 2.92 \text{ eV}$ ) is higher than that for \*NO<sub>2</sub> desorption to NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> ( $\Delta G = 0.85 \text{ eV}$ ), leading to NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> accumulation on CuO surfaces. In contrast, the \* $NO_2 \rightarrow *NOOH$  step on  $Co_3O_4$  is thermodynamically spontaneous ( $\Delta G = -3.21$  eV), effectively driving NH<sub>3</sub> generation (Figure S65).

The continuous and efficient supply of \*H is critical for high-performance NH<sub>3</sub> production in NO<sub>3</sub>RR.<sup>[14,57]</sup> Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra with 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO) trapping demonstrate that in the absence of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, all catalysts exhibit nine characteristic peaks with an intensity ratio of 1:1:2:1:2:1:2:1:1, corresponding to DMPO-H (Figure 5c). Upon NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> introduction, these peaks diminish to near-background levels at OCP (Figures 5c and S66), suggesting near-complete \*H consumption for intermediate hydrogenation during NO<sub>3</sub>RR. Notably, the initial DMPO-H signal intensity of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-loaded CuNi and CuCoNi is significantly higher than that of CuO and CuCo, proving that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> facilitates \*H generation by accelerating water dissociation. DFT calculations reveal that the H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation barriers on CuNi (-0.21 eV) and CoNi (-

0.72 eV) are substantially lower than those on CuO (0.62 eV) and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (0.13 eV) (Figure 5d), confirming that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> kinetically promotes H generation and accumulation, in agreement with EPR analyses. The rapid \*H generation from hydrolysis on Ni(OH)2 might originate from the unique, robust hydrogen bonding between hydroxide and interfacial water molecules.[13] To further validate the pivotal role of \*H in NO<sub>3</sub>RR, we employed \*H scavenging experiments using tertiary butanol (t-BuOH) at -0.4 V versus RHE. As the t-BuOH concentration increases from 0 to 500 mM, the NH<sub>3</sub> yield rate of CuCoNi decreases from 44.15 to 26.76 mg h<sup>-1</sup>  $cm^{-2}$ , and the FE drops from 94.54% to 80.91% (Figure 5e), suggesting the critical role of \*H in NO<sub>3</sub>RR. Moreover, kinetic isotope effect (KIE) measurements show markedly lower average KIE values for CuCoNi than for N-CuO and CuCo (Figures 5f and S67), reflecting faster water dissociation kinetics and improved \*H supply enabled by Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. This represents the fastest hydrogen transfer kinetics observed in the CuCoNi system, which should be primarily driven by the BIEF of its ordered ternary gradient heterostructure. The directional interfacial field lowers the energy barrier for \*H migration, optimizing proton-coupled electron transfer dynamics and enhancing hydrogenation steps essential for NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub> conversion.

Systematic mechanistic investigations were conducted to further elucidate the directed \*H spillover hydrogenation pathways. In situ EIS Bode plots reveal that without NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, increasing potential shifts low-frequency peaks toward mid-frequency for both CuCoNi and CuCo, with CuCoNi exhibiting a significantly larger shift (Figure \$68a-c), indicating Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-enhanced water dissociation. Upon NO<sub>3</sub> addition, a mid-frequency peak appears with reduced phase angle versus NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>-free conditions, confirming \*H consumption in NO<sub>3</sub>RR (Figure S68d-f),<sup>[29]</sup> and the phase angle decrease at equivalent potentials is markedly greater for CuCoNi than CuCo, while the peak intensity of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> shows a negligible decrease. This implies Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is not the primary nitrate hydrogenation site but rather promotes water dissociation to generate \*H for spillover to Cu/Co sites. The Nyquist plots were fitted using a dual-parallel equivalent circuit model (Figures S69 and S70a-c), where  $C_{\varphi}$  and  $R_2$  correspond to pseudocapacitance and resistance for hydrogen diffusion and adsorption (Table S6), respectively.<sup>[17]</sup> Tafel analysis of log R<sub>2</sub> (Figure S70d) revealed hydrogen adsorption kinetics, with Tafel slopes ordered as CuCo >Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> >CuCoNi, indicating Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> incorporation enhances \*H adsorption/transfer.[58] The hydrogen adsorption charge (QH), derived from Co integration, followed CuCoNi >Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> >CuCo, demonstrating superior active hydrogen adsorption capacity of CuCoNi (Figure S70e).[17] Cyclic voltammetry (CV) analysis shows CuCoNi exhibits \*H desorption peaks (0.25-0.35 V versus RHE) that shift positively with scan rate (Figure S71a-c). [58,59] The suppression of these peaks upon NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> addition directly indicates \*H involvement in the hydrogenation process. In contrast, CuCo displays negligible \*H desorption, unaffected by NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, further supporting Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> as the primary \*H source (Figure S71d-g). Kinetic analysis of \*H desorption peak potential versus scan rate indicates faster \*H desorption

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 5. NO $_3$ RR Mechanism Research on CuCoNi. a) The NH $_3$  yield rates and b) corresponding NO $_2$  conversion rates of the different electrocatalysts under different potentials in 1 M NaOH + 0.05 M NaNO $_2$ . c) EPR spectra of N-CuO, CuNi, CuCo, and CuCoNi in 1 M NaOH with and without NO $_3$  using DMPO as the radical trapping reagent. d) Gibbs free energy diagram of hydrogen adsorption of CuO, Co $_3$ O $_4$ , CuNi, and CoNi. e) The NH $_3$  yield rate and FE of CuCoNi at -0.4 V versus RHE after adding different concentrations of t-BuOH. f) KIE tests of N-CuO, CuCo, and CuCoNi electrocatalysts. The KIE is quantified as the current density ratio observed during electrochemical testing when replacing H $_2$ O with D $_2$ O under identical potentiostatic conditions. g) Free energy diagram of NO $_3$ RR over CuO, CuNi (the initial 2e $^-$  conversion process) and Co $_3$ O $_4$ , CoNi (the subsequent 6e $^-$  conversion process). The small spheres of white, red, light blue, brown, and dark blue represent H, O, Cu, Co, and Ni atoms respectively. In situ ATR-FTIR spectra for h) N-CuO, i) CuCo, and j) CuCoNi across a potential range of OCPs and 0.1 to -0.8 V versus RHE.

on CuCoNi >CuNi >Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure \$71h), suggesting \*H spillover to Cu/Co sites. Hydrogen temperature-programmed desorption (H<sub>2</sub>-TPD) shows a lower hydrogen desorption peak temperature for CuCoNi than CuCo (Figure \$72), further suggesting \*H spillover from Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to CuCo within this tandem heterostructure.<sup>[59]</sup>

In situ ATR-FTIR spectroscopy monitoring of intermediate evolution during NO<sub>3</sub>RR reveals distinct mechanistic

roles within the CuCoNi heterostructure (Figure 5h–j). Peaks at 3370 and 1350 cm<sup>-1</sup> are attributed to O–H stretching vibrations and bending vibrations of \*H<sub>2</sub>O, respectively. Notably, CuCoNi shows markedly weaker O–H signal intensities than N-CuO and CuCo, implying accelerated water dissociation kinetics that ensure abundant \*H availability for hydrogenation step. Inverted bands at 1210 and 1150 cm<sup>-1</sup> correspond to N–O stretching vibrations, indicat-

15213773, 2025. 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-10-0"></span>ing NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> consumption.<sup>[60,61]</sup> Compared with N-CuO, CuCo and CuCoNi trigger rapid NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> consumption at lower potentials, demonstrating that Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> introduction promotes NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> reduction kinetics. Peaks at 1530 and 1340 cm<sup>-1</sup> represent asymmetric and symmetric N-O stretching vibrations of \*NO<sub>2</sub>-. [62] Stronger \*NO<sub>2</sub> peaks on CuCo indicate Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> provides favorable adsorption sites for NO2-, consistent with a tandem catalytic mechanism. The disappearance of \*NO<sub>2</sub>--related peaks in CuCoNi is attributed to surfaceenriched \*H promoting rapid hydrogenation of \*NO<sub>2</sub>. This interpretation is directly supported by significantly enhanced \*NH ( $\sim$ 3640 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and \*NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> ( $\sim$ 1440 cm<sup>-1</sup>) peaks on CuCoNi. The Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>→Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>→N-CuO BIEF-mediated synergistic interplay concurrently optimizes reactant activation (NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> adsorption at N-CuO), active hydrogen donor supply (\*H generation at Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>), and hydrogenation kinetics (\*NO<sub>2</sub> conversion at Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> sites), collectively resulting in enabling superior NH<sub>3</sub> production efficiency. In addition, DFT calculations further reveal that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> incorporation markedly optimizes the electronic structure of the catalyst (Figure S73). DFT-optimized models provided estimates of work functions, the relative trend in work function variations in CuNi and CoNi remains consistent with experimental trends (Figure S74a-b). In addition, the differential charge density maps of CuNi and CoNi heterojunctions reveal Fermilevel modulation and interfacial charge accumulation. This electronic redistribution likely significantly lowers the hydrogen spillover barrier, thereby boosting the intrinsic activity of NO<sub>3</sub>RR via gradient BIEF in this tandem electrocatalyst (Figure \$74c,d).[28] The calculated d-band centers locate at -2.23 eV for CuO, -2.27 eV for Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and -1.89 eV for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure S75). Upon Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> integration, the d-band centers shift upward to -2.15 eV for CuNi and - 2.31 eV for CoNi, closer to the Fermi level, thereby optimizing NO<sub>3</sub>RR intermediate adsorption. Adsorption energy calculations for NO<sub>3</sub>RR intermediates on CuNi and CoNi demonstrate that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> introduction enhances  $NO_3^-$  adsorption in the initial  $2e^-$  reduction step ( $\Delta E$ : -1.72 eV versus -1.42 eV on CuO) and enables spontaneous \*NO<sub>3</sub>→\*NO<sub>2</sub>OH conversion on CuNi by optimizing the RDS. For the subsequent 6e<sup>-</sup> pathway, charge redistribution at the CoNi interface substantially reduces the energy barrier of the RDS (\*NOOH→\*NO conversion) from 1.71 eV to -0.69 eV (Figure 5g), significantly improving NO<sub>3</sub>RR kinetics. Based on the experimental findings, we propose a potential triple synergistic mechanism in CuCoNi mediated by BIEF, where CuO predominantly facilitates NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> adsorption and its subsequent 2e<sup>-</sup> reduction, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> could regulate NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> conversion, notably, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> dramatically enhances both water dissociation and \*H spillover. These components work synergistically to significantly improve the overall NO<sub>3</sub>RR efficiency.

#### Conclusion

In summary, we successfully constructed a triple-phase N-doped CuO@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>@Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructure electrocatalyst with a gradient built-in electric field demonstrating

enhanced catalytic performance. This unique architecture orchestrates interfacial charge polarization to boost proton flux, thereby overcoming the kinetic limitations of multistep proton-coupled electron transfer in cathodic NO<sub>3</sub>RR and anodic HMFOR. The CuCoNi catalyst delivers outstanding performance: achieving a FE-NH<sub>3</sub> of 96.49% with a yield rate of 45.36 mg h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> for NO<sub>3</sub>RR, and an FDCA FE of 95.23% with a yield of 95.24% for HMFOR, surpassing most reported state-of-the-art catalysts. The system's high efficiency arises from synergistic component interactions: CuO predominantly adsorbs/activates NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> regulates the six-electron NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub> conversion, and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> supplies \*H while enabling rapid Ni3+OOH/Ni(OH)2 redox shuttle for HMF dehydrogenation. Utilizing this bifunctionality, a coupled NO<sub>3</sub>RR||HMFOR electrolyzer demonstrates outstanding stability (>140 h) at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Moreover, the constructed rechargeable Zn-NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>/HMF battery replaces the energy-intensive OER with HMFOR during charging, resulting in a substantial 70-280 mV reduction in charging overpotential and extended cyclability over 450 cycles. This study demonstrates that proton flux engineering, achieved through tailored built-in electric fields in heterostructures, enhances multielectron-transfer catalysis—providing a viable pathway for sustainable energy storage and circular valorization of nitrogenous and biomass-derived wastes.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledge support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 22471099 and 21975106), Postgraduate Research & Practice Innovation Program of Jiangsu Province (SJCX25\_1332) for financial support. Kaibin Chu is grateful for the financial supports from the Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (Grant No. ZR2024QE084) and the Linyi University 2023 High-level Talents (PhD) Research Start-up Fund (Natural Sciences) (Grant No. Z6124015). The authors acknowledge Ms. Luo Huan from Scientific Compass (www.shiyanjia.com) for XPS and UPS measurements. The authors gratefully acknowledge Prof. Dr. X. C. Jiao for performing the in situ Raman and FT-IR spectroscopic analyses.

#### **Conflict of Interests**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### Data Availability Statement

Research data are not shared.

**Keywords:** Built-in electric fields • Catalytic shunt • Graded energy-gap • Multicomponent synergy, Ternary heterostructure

15213773, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/adv10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (05/01/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<sup>[1]</sup> X. Zhang, B. B. Ward, D. M. Sigman, Chem. Rev. 2020, 120, 5308–5351.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>

- [2] Y. Feng, S. Long, X. Tang, Y. Sun, R. Luque, X. Zeng, L. Lin, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 6042–6093.
- [3] Z. Zhu, S. Ma, S. He, M. Song, B. Y. Xia, B. You, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2025**, *527*, 216399.
- [4] H. Zhang, H. Wang, X. Cao, M. Chen, Y. Liu, Y. Zhou, M. Huang, L. Xia, Y. Wang, T. Li, D. Zheng, Y. Luo, S. Sun, X. Zhao, X. Sun, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2312746.
- [5] H. Tan, Y. Tian, W. Peng, X. Liu, L. Wang, Y. Peng, C. Wang, J. Liang, X. Yan, *Adv. Sustainable Syst.* **2025**, *9*, 2400934.
- [6] K. Chu, B. Weng, Z. Lu, Y. Ding, W. Zhang, R. Tan, Y.-M. Zheng, N. Han, *Adv. Sci.* **2025**, *12*, 2416053.
- [7] C. Chen, M. Lv, H. Hu, L. Huai, B. Zhu, S. Fan, Q. Wang, J. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311464.
- [8] Y. Wang, H. He, H. Lv, F. Jia, B. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 6761.
- [9] W. Lin, E. Zhou, J.-F. Xie, J. Lin, Y. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2209464.
- [10] Y. Wang, M. Sun, J. Zhou, Y. Xiong, Q. Zhang, C. Ye, X. Wang, P. Lu, T. Feng, F. Hao, F. Liu, J. Wang, Y. Ma, J. Yin, S. Chu, L. Gu, B. Huang, Z. Fan, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2023**, *120*, e2306461120.
- [11] R. Zhang, H. Hong, X. Liu, S. Zhang, C. Li, H. Cui, Y. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Hou, P. Li, Z. Huang, Y. Guo, C. Zhi, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202309930.
- [12] J. Zhou, Y. Xiong, M. Sun, Z. Xu, Y. Wang, P. Lu, F. Liu, F. Hao, T. Feng, Y. Ma, J. Yin, C. Ye, B. Chen, S. Xi, Y. Zhu, B. Huang, Z. Fan, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2023**, *120*, e2311149120.
- [13] Y. Wan, M. Pei, Y. Tang, Y. Liu, W. Yan, J. Zhang, R. Lv, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2417696.
- [14] S. Zheng, X. Yang, Z.-Z. Shi, H. Ding, F. Pan, J.-F. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 26965–26974.
- [15] K. Wang, M. Wu, Y. Zhang, B. Jiang, Y. Su, S. Yang, X. Lu, H. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *n/a*, 2424435.
- [16] Q. Wang, S.-F. Hung, K. Lao, X. Huang, F. Li, H. B. Tao, H. B. Yang, W. Liu, W. Wang, Y. Cheng, N. Hiraoka, L. Zhang, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Chen, Y. Xu, C. Su, J. G. Chen, B. Liu, *Nat. Catal.* **2025**, *8*, 378.
- [17] X. Ouyang, W. Qiao, Y. Yang, B. Xi, Y. Yu, Y. Wu, J. Fang, P. Li, S. Xiong, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202422585.
- [18] Y. Xiong, Y. Wang, J. Zhou, F. Liu, F. Hao, Z. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2304021.
- [19] Y.-Y. Lou, Q.-Z. Zheng, S.-Y. Zhou, J.-Y. Fang, O. Akdim, X.-Y. Ding, R. Oh, G.-S. Park, X. Huang, S.-G. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 5098–5108.
- [20] R. Zhao, Q. Yan, L. Lu, L. Yu, H. Chen, T. Yan, L. Liu, J. Xi, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 17046–17054.
- [21] Q. Yan, R. Zhao, L. Yu, Z. Zhao, L. Liu, J. Xi, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2425084.
- [22] C. Han, L. Sun, S. Han, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202416910.
- [23] H. Pan, G. Zhao, G. Hai, B. Peng, F. Gao, C. Zhang, Y. Wang, X. Huang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 29550.
- [24] Z. Su, K.-K. Liu, Y.-Q. Xu, B. Yan, S. Wang, Z.-J. Guan, Y. Zou, Y. Fang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202420945.
- [25] S. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Chang, M. Gyu Kim, H. Jang, J. Cho, L. Hou, X. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202400069.
- [26] Y. Liu, Y. Chen, Y. Tian, T. Sakthivel, H. Liu, S. Guo, H. Zeng, Z. Dai, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203615.
- [27] D. Xu, S.-N. Zhang, J.-S. Chen, X.-H. Li, *Chem. Rev.* **2023**, *123*, 1–30.
- [28] D. Zhao, C. Ma, Y. Li, H. Xie, K. Zhu, J. Yan, D. Cao, J. Yao, G. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2025**, *142*, 111237.
- [29] Y. Chen, H. Bai, J. Lan, C.-W. Kao, F. Xie, L. Meng, J. Li, Y.-R. Lu, M. Peng, H. Pan, Y. Tan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202504568.
- [30] B. Hu, W. Zhou, K. Tsuchiya, *Mater. Des.* **2025**, *254*, 114071.

- [31] Y. Zhu, H. Duan, C. G. Gruber, W. Qu, H. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Zhong, X. Zhang, L. Han, D. Cheng, D. D. Medina, E. Cortés, D. Zhang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202421821.
- [32] J. Zhang, J. Li, W. Chen, Q. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Ren, X. Ouyang, X. Meng, J. Qiu, J. Hu, S. Ye, J. Liu, Q. Zhang, *Applied Catalysis B: Environment and Energy* **2025**, *373*, 125333.
- [33] Z. Hou, C. Cui, Y. Li, Y. Gao, D. Zhu, Y. Gu, G. Pan, Y. Zhu, T. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209876.
- [34] W. Wu, Y. Wang, S. Song, Z. Ge, C. Zhang, J. Huang, G. Xu, N. Wang, Y. Lu, Z. Deng, H. Duan, M. Liu, C. Tang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202504972.
- [35] H. Jin, Y. Zhang, Z. Cao, J. Liu, S. Ye, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2502977.
- [36] J. Su, K. Shi, B. Liu, Z. Xi, J. Yu, X. Xu, P. Jing, R. Gao, J. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2401194.
- [37] M. Zubair, P. M. Usov, H. Ohtsu, J. A. Yuwono, C. S. Gerke, G. D. Y. Foley, H. Hackbarth, R. F. Webster, Y. Yang, W. H. Lie, Z. Ma, L. Thomsen, M. Kawano, N. M. Bedford, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2400676.
- [38] S. Wang, H. Feng, T. Liu, Y. Deng, M. Zhang, S. Zhao, J. Han, X. Zhang, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 9860–9869.
- [39] J. Wang, W. Zhao, H. Yu, W. Wang, Y. Xu, L.-L. Shen, G.-R. Zhang, D. Mei, *Applied Catalysis B: Environment and Energy* **2024**, *353*, 124086.
- [40] J. Li, R. Qiu, S. Zhang, L. Peng, Y. Dong, Y. Jiang, Y. Li, N. Fang, J. Yu, J.-C. Dong, H. Zheng, L. Ding, J. Wan, I. Akpinar, J. Kuang, G. Chen, J. Ye, Y. Sun, L. Lin, S. Zheng, S. Yang, J. Li, J.-F. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2417684.
- [41] D. Chen, W. Li, J. Liu, L. Sun, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2025**, *18*, 3120–3128.
- [42] M. Han, Y. Luo, L. Xu, W. Chen, C. Li, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Wu, Y. Jiang, W. Wu, R. Wang, Y.-R. Lu, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 33893–33902.
- [43] L. Guo, J. Chi, T. Cui, J. Zhu, Y. Xia, H. Guo, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2400975.
- [44] J. Choi, S. Yoo, P. M. Nguyen, E. Lee, H. Shin, Y. J. Hwang, *ACS Catal.* **2025**, *15*, 6906–6917.
- [45] M. Tan, T. Liu, Y. Sun, D. Wu, X. Liu, X. Zhang, M. Ni, Q. Luo, H. Du, L. Cao, T. Yao, *ACS Catal.* **2025**, *15*, 7823– 7832.
- [46] W. Chen, J. Shi, Y. Wu, Y. Jiang, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, J. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202316449.
- [47] W. Chen, Y. Wang, B. Wu, J. Shi, Y. Li, L. Xu, C. Xie, W. Zhou, Y.-C. Huang, T. Wang, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, C. Chen, J. Zheng, J. Liu, C.-L. Dong, Y. Zou, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2105320.
- [48] Z. Yang, B. Zhang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *330*, 122590.
- [49] B. Huang, J. Wang, D. Xie, Q. Huang, D. Wen, X. Zeng, D. Lin, W. Guo, H. Sun, F. Xie, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *498*, 155006.
- [50] J. Wu, X. Gao, Z. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *492*, 152241.
- [51] Y. Zhu, J. Wei, J. Wu, R. Chen, P. Tsiakaras, S. Yin, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *673*, 301–311.
- [52] S. Han, H. Li, T. Li, F. Chen, R. Yang, Y. Yu, B. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 402–414.
- [53] D. R. MacFarlane, P. V. Cherepanov, J. Choi, B. H. R. Suryanto, R. Y. Hodgetts, J. M. Bakker, F. M. Ferrero Vallana, A. N. Simonov, *Joule* **2020**, *4*, 1186.
- [54] R. Zhang, S. Zhang, Y. Guo, C. Li, J. Liu, Z. Huang, Y. Zhao, Y. Li, C. Zhi, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3024.
- [55] W. Yu, Y. Wang, H. Tan, M. Huang, J. Yu, L. Chen, J. Wang, H. Liu, W. Zhou, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2402970.
- [56] H. Jiang, G.-F. Chen, O. Savateev, J. Xue, L.-X. Ding, Z. Liang, M. Antonietti, H. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202218717.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>

- [57] M. Zhang, X. Cheng, Y. Duan, J. Chen, L. Wang, Y.-Q. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2413070.
- [58] S. Huang, B. Han, Y. Liu, Z. Cheng, H. Ge, L. Zhang, R. Zhang, B. Wang, J. Kong, J. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202512654.
- [59] W. Guo, G. Zhao, Z. Sun, B. Zhang, D. Xin, M. Gao, Y. Liu, Z. Zhuang, H.-W. Liang, H. Pan, W. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2025**, *16*, 6741.
- [60] Y. Wang, F. Hao, H. Xu, M. Sun, X. Wang, Y. Xiong, J. Zhou, F. Liu, Y. Hu, Y. Ma, X. Meng, L. Guo, C. Wang, M. Shao, G. Wang, J. Wang, P. Lu, J. Yin, J. Wang, W. Niu, C. Ye, Q. Zhang,
- S. Xi, B. Huang, M. Shao, Z. Fan, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2025**, *64*, e202508617.
- [61] J. Guan, L. Cai, W. Li, H. Zhou, Y. Huang, *Applied Catalysis B: Environment and Energy* **2024**, *358*, 124387.
- [62] R. Jia, X. Zhang, L. Gan, M. Tahir, Z.-F. Huang, L. Pan, R. Gao, C. Shi, X. Zhang, G. Yang, J.-J. Zou, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2025**, *13*, 5732–5743.

Manuscript received: July 02, 2025 Revised manuscript received: August 14, 2025 Manuscript accepted: August 27, 2025 Version of record online: September 04, 2025

15213773, 2025, 44, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/anie.202514438 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License