---
source: Xiao 等 - 2023 - Boosting the Electrochemical 5‐Hydroxymethylfurfural Oxidation by Balancing the Competitive Adsorpti.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 75.208s
generated: 2026-01-10T09:03:52.008607Z
---

# **Boosting the Electrochemical 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Oxidation by Balancing the Competitive Adsorption of Organic and OH<sup>−</sup> over Controllable Reconstructed Ni3S2/NiO***<sup>x</sup>*

*Difei Xiao, Xiaolei Bao, Dujuan Dai, Yugang Gao, Shenghe Si, Zeyan Wang,\* Yuanyuan Liu, Peng Wang, Zhaoke Zheng, Hefeng Cheng, Ying Dai, and Baibiao Huang\**

**The electrocatalytic oxidation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) is a promising method for the efficient production of biomass-derived high-value-added chemicals. However, its practical application is limited by: 1) the low activity and selectivity caused by the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup> and 2) the low operational stability caused by the uncontrollable reconstruction of the catalyst. To overcome these limitations, a series of Ni3S2/NiO***x***-***n* **catalysts with controllable compositions and well-defined structures are synthesized using a novel in situ controlled surface reconstruction strategy. The adsorption behavior of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup> can be continuously adjusted by varying the ratio of NiO***<sup>x</sup>* **to Ni3S2 on the catalysts surface, as indicated by in situ characterizations, contact angle analysis, and theoretical simulations. Owing to the balanced competitive adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>, the optimized Ni3S2/NiO***x***-15 catalyst exhibited remarkable HMF electrocatalytic oxidation performance, with the current density reaching 366 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1.5 VRHE and the Faradaic efficiency of the product, 2,5-furanedicarboxylic acid, reaching 98%. Moreover, Ni3S2/NiO***x***-15 exhibits excellent durability, with its activity and structure remaining stable for over 100 h of operation. This study provides a new route for the design and construction of catalysts for value-added biomass conversion and offers new insights into enhancing catalytic performance by balancing competitive adsorption.**

D. Xiao, D. Dai, Y. Gao, S. Si, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, P. Wang, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, B. Huang State Key Laboratory of Crystal Materials Shandong University Jinan 250100, China E-mail: wangzeyan@sdu.edu.cn; bbhuang@sdu.edu.cn X. Bao School of Environmental and Material Engineering Yantai University Yantai 264005, China Y. Dai School of Physics Shandong University Jinan 250100, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202304133

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202304133**

# **1. Introduction**

5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), an important biomass-derived platform chemical, has recently attracted attention owing to its wide application in the production of various high-value-added chemicals.[1] Among its many derivatives, 2,5-furanedicarboxylic acid (FDCA) is regarded as one of the most important high-value-added chemicals because it can be polymerized into poly(ethylene 2,5-furanedicarboxylate) as an eco-friendly substitute for petroleumderived poly(ethylene terephthalate).[2] HMF electrocatalytic oxidation (HMFOR) is emerging as a promising method for producing FDCA owing to its compatibility with renewable electricity and milder operating conditions than those in conventional thermochemical routes.[3] However, the practical application of HMFOR is limited by the unsatisfactory activity and selectivity of reported catalysts, making the further improvement of catalytic performance an important research goal.

The interaction between the catalyst and substrate is considered crucial to heterogeneous catalysis because it determines

the overall reaction activity and product selectivity.[1c,4] Under alkaline conditions, the conversion of HMF into FDCA via HM-FOR requires the joint participation of both HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>. However, owing to limited reactive sites on the catalyst surface, the adsorption of these two substrates is competitive, which means a stronger HMF adsorption will inevitably weaken the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> and vice versa.[6] Therefore, optimization and further enhancement of HMFOR performance can be achieved by balancing the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>. Unfortunately, catalysts usually suffer from severe and uncontrollable surface reconstruction in aqueous electrolytes during HM-FOR, leading to the formation of oxides or hydroxides.[7] For example, Ni-based sulfides, nitrides, and phosphides (denoted as Ni-X-ides, X = S, N, and P) can be gradually reconstructed to hydrophilic NiO*<sup>x</sup>* (e.g., NiO, Ni(OH)2, or NiOOH) completely during HMFOR process.[8] This reconstruction inhibits HMF

1521495, 2023, 45, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/anda.202304133 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on the Conditions of the Commons Licensean Conditions on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions on the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of the Conditions of

Figure 1. Schematic illustration of the in situ controlled surface reconstruction of  $Ni_3S_2$ . The degree of surface reconstruction can be controlled by adjusting the 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) coverage of the  $Ni_3S_2$  surface. The blue, red, and white balls represent carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen atoms, respectively.

adsorption while enhancing OH<sup>-</sup> adsorption, leading to the severe oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the main side reaction of HMFOR under alkaline conditions, which can significantly reduce the HMFOR performance of the high expected Ni-X-ide catalysts. Therefore, it still remains a great challenge to balance the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>-</sup> and further enhance the HMFOR performance by prohibiting the uncontrollable and completely reconstruction of Ni-X-ide catalysts.

The reconstruction of Ni-X-ide to NiO<sub>x</sub> originates from its spontaneous oxidation upon direct contact with OH<sup>-</sup>.<sup>[9]</sup> Thus, if the Ni-X-ide surface is partially protected by strongly adsorbed HMF molecules, surface reconstruction can be controlled such that only the unprotected part of the surface would be reconstructed to NiO<sub>x</sub>. In this way, the competitive adsorption of both HMF and OH<sup>-</sup> could be easily balanced with continuously controllable surface reconstruction by forming Ni-X-ide/NiO, lateral heterostructures. Finding a Ni-X-ide catalyst with strong affiliation to HMF molecules is the prerequisite for achieving the above assumption. Investigation of commonly available Ni-Xide catalysts by temperature programmed desorption and density functional theory (DFT) calculations revealed that Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> has the strongest affinity to HMF, as indicated by the highest desorption temperature and the negative adsorption energy (see Figure S1-S10 and Note S1, Supporting Information). By varying the HMF concentration in KOH aqueous electrolyte to control HMF coverage ratio on the  $Ni_3S_2$  surface, a series of  $Ni_3S_2/NiO_x$ -n catalysts with continuously controlled composition were obtained, as illustrated in Figure 1. Continuous variation in the ratio of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> to NiO<sub>x</sub> in the catalysts obtained through this in situ controlled surface reconstruction strategy enabled control of the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH-Benefiting from the balanced adsorption of these two substrates, the optimized Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 catalyst exhibited excellent catalytic performance with a current density exceeding 360 Ma cm<sup>-2</sup> and FDCA selectivity approaching 100% at 1.5 V vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). Moreover, the catalytic performance and structure of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 remained highly stable throughout 20 consecutive cycles (100 h). This work highlights the importance of balancing competitive adsorption in improving catalytic performance, contributes to a deeper understanding of biomass oxidation, and provides a new inspiration for the design and construction of efficient catalysts.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n Catalysts

To obtain Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n catalysts, in situ controlled surface reconstruction was performed by consecutive anodic linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) scans, in which as-prepared Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> was used as the working electrode and a 1 M KOH solution containing different HMF concentrations ( $c_{\text{HMF}} = 2.5-60 \text{ mm}$ ) was used as the electrolyte. At most of the HMF concentrations, the subsequent LSV curves (i.e., 2nd-5th cycles) were different from those of the first cycle (Figure S11, Supporting Information), indicating that the surface state of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> changed during the LSV scans, that is, surface reconstruction.<sup>[9,10]</sup> Notably, the LSV curve stopped changing after the 2nd or 3rd LSV scan, indicating that surface reconstruction can be accomplished in two or three cycles of scanning. The HMF concentration affects the surface reconstruction process, as evidenced by the difference in the LSV curve variation at each HMF concentration. According to the change in current density (j) after surface reconstruction (Figure S11, Supporting Information), the applied HMF concentration was divided into three groups: passivation group (group I, a–c,  $c_{\rm HMF} = 2.5$ – 7.5 mm)—low  $c_{\text{HME}}$  and decreased j after surface reconstruction (e.g.,  $c_{\text{HMF}} = 5$  mм, **Figure 2**a); activation group (group II, d–i,  $c_{\rm HMF} = 10$ –25 mm)—moderate  $c_{\rm HMF}$  and increased j after surface reconstruction (e.g.,  $c_{\rm HMF} = 15$  mm, Figure 2b); and stable group (group III, j–l,  $c_{\text{HMF}} = 30-60 \text{ mM}$ )—high  $c_{\text{HMF}}$  and constant j throughout the five LSV scans (e.g.,  $c_{HMF} = 30$  mм, Figure 2c). The relationship between j and  $c_{\text{HMF}}$  before and after in situ controlled surface reconstruction could be depicted as volcanotype curves (Figure 2d). The distinctly different shapes of these two curves confirm that surface reconstruction behavior can be

**Figure 2.** Synthesis and characterization of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts. a–c) Consecutive LSV scans of Ni3S2 in 1 m KOH containing 5 (a), 15 (b), and 30 mm (c) HMF. d) Relationship between the current density (*j*) and HMF concentration (*c*HMF) of Ni3S2 before and after surface reconstruction. e) Change in *j* after Ni3S2 reconstruction at different *c*HMF values. f) S 1s XPS spectra of Ni3S2/NiOx-*n* catalysts and pristine Ni3S2. g) Ni *K*-edge XANES spectra of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts, NiO and Ni foil. h) HR-TEM image of the Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 catalyst.

modulated by changing the HMF concentration in the electrolyte. Furthermore, the relationship between Δ*j* (difference between the current densities before and after surface reconstruction) and *c*HMF also had a volcanic shape (Figure 2e), which is consistent with our initial hypothesis; a specific description and analysis can be found in Note S2 (Supporting Information). The maximum Δ*j* (57 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) was located at *c*HMF = 15 mm, implying that the catalyst structure at this HMF concentration is the most favorable for HMFOR.

All catalysts obtained by in situ controlled surface reconstruction at different HMF concentrations are promising for HM-FOR. As representatives, the catalysts obtained at *c*HMF = 5, 15, and 30 mm were chosen for further studies and denoted as Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n*, where *n* is the *c*HMF. The catalyst obtained by five consecutive LSV scans in 1 m KOH without HMF (Figure S12, Supporting Information) was also used for the subsequent HMFOR and denoted as Ni3S2/NiO*x*-0. The diffraction peaks in the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the catalysts corresponded to Heazlewoodite Ni3S2 (JCPDS No. 44– 1418), and no peaks attributed to NiO*<sup>x</sup>* phases were observed because of the low amounts of NiO*<sup>x</sup>* species produced by surface reconstruction (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Compared with pristine Ni3S2 (Figure S6, Supporting Information), Ni3S2/NiO*x*-0 had severely disrupted nanosheet arrays with evident cracks (Figure S14a,b, Supporting Information), indicating severe surface reconstruction. The degree of structural disruption decreased with increasing HMF concentration (Figure S14, Supporting Information), which directly indicates that adjusting the HMF concentration can control the degree of surface reconstruction of Ni3S2.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted to evaluate the surface chemical compositions of the catalysts. The XPS

521 4095, 2023, 45, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202304133 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensers and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons.

survey spectra of all four catalysts were similar to that of pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> (Figure S15a), indicating that surface reconstruction did not change the elemental composition. However, the S 1s XPS spectra of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n catalysts were distinctly different. Only two characteristic peaks at approximately 162.0 and 163.5 eV (purple range), corresponding to S<sup>2-</sup> in Ni-S bonds, can be detected for pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> (Figure 2f). However, for Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-0, these two characteristic peaks almost disappeared, while two new large peaks appeared at ≈168.2 and 169.6 eV (pink range), which were attributed to  $SO_4^{2-}$ . This indicates that most of the S<sup>2-</sup> on the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> surface was oxidized to SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> after surface reconstruction in 1 M KOH.[11] The peak area of SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> decreased, while that of  $S^{2-}$  increased, from  $Ni_3S_2/NiO_x$ -0 to  $Ni_3S_2/NiO_x$ -30. In other words, the  $SO_4^{2-}/S^{2-}$  ratio sequentially decreased from Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-0 to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-30 (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Since the low content of leached S was detected in the electrolyte (Figure S17, Supporting Information) and the oxidation of S accompanied by the formation of  $NiO_x$  and  $SO_4^{2-}$ , the SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>/S<sup>2-</sup> ratio from XPS analysis can roughly describe the degree of surface reconstruction of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>. Thus, a higher SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>/S<sup>2-</sup> ratio corresponds to a higher degree of surface reconstruction and a higher NiO<sub>x</sub>/Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> ratio on the catalyst surface. The reconstruction process occurs only on the surface of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, which can be demonstrated by the recovered of S2- peaks and the disappeared SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> peaks in S 1s XPS spectra after Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 was etching for 3 nm by Ar<sup>+</sup> ion (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Further, operando Raman spectra were employed to detect the surface reconstruction, in which the as-prepared Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> was used as the working electrode and the Raman spectra were acquired immediately after completing five consecutive LSV scans in 1 M KOH solution containing different HMF concentrations. As shown in Figure S19 (Supporting Information), the peak  $\approx$ 980 cm<sup>-1</sup> was attributed to  $SO_4^{2-,[10]}$  and its intensity decreased sequentially from Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-0 to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-30, which was consistent with XPS analysis. Furthermore, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) were measured to investigate the chemical state of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n catalysts. As shown in Figure 2g, the XANES of Ni K-edge exhibit gradually shift of absorption position toward higher energy from Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-30 to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-5, indicating the increased Ni oxidation state<sup>[12]</sup> and the deeper surface reconstruction, which is in line with the XPS and operando Raman spectra analysis. Based on the XPS, operando Raman and XANES results, it can be drawn the conclusion that the composition and structure of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n catalysts can be effectively controlled by adjusting the HMF concentration in the electrolyte, which is consistent with our original hypothesis. Combining the Fourier-transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra and O 1s XPS spectra of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n catalysts, the derived reconstructed NiO<sub>x</sub> species may be close to NiO (Figure S20, Supporting Information). The high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR-TEM) image of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 showed alternating crystalline (corresponding to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>) and amorphous (corresponding to NiO<sub>x</sub>) regions (Figure 2h), which can also be confirmed by the non-uniform distribution of sulfur elements in STEM mapping images (Figure S21, Supporting Information). This alternating structure enhance the synergistic effect of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and NiO<sub>x</sub>, which is conducive to balancing the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH- (Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and NiO<sub>x</sub> regions enhance the adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>-</sup>, respectively) and im-

proving the catalytic performance. In summary, the  $\mathrm{Ni_3S_2/NiO}_x$ -n catalysts with continuously controlled compositions and well-defined structures were successfully synthesized using the in situ controlled surface reconstruction strategy.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical HMF Oxidation Performance

To evaluate the electrochemical HMF oxidation performance of the catalysts, LSV curves were measured in a 1 м КОН solution containing 20 mm HMF. The optimized Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 catalyst exhibited the highest catalytic activity, with the current density reaching 366 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a potential of 1.5 V vs RHE (Figure 3a). Additionally, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 having the lowest Tafel slope (58.0 mV dec-1, Figure S22, Supporting Information) implied that it had the fastest reaction kinetics.<sup>[13]</sup> As shown in Figure 3b, both the current density and Tafel slope of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 were significantly better than those of the other  $Ni_3S_2/NiO_x$ -n catalysts and pristine  $Ni_3S_2$ . Notably, the catalytic performance had a volcano-type relationship with the relative content of NiOx on the catalyst surface (Figure S23, Supporting Information), and also exhibits a volcano-type relationship with the ratio of NiO<sub>x</sub> to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> of the catalyst surface (Figure 3b). The best-performing Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 also exhibited the largest current increase during its synthesis via in situ controlled surface reconstruction (Figure 2e). This implies that a catalyst with a proper NiO<sub>x</sub> to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> ratio synthesized with the appropriate degree of surface reconstruction is the most conducive to the synergistic effect of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and NiO<sub>x</sub>. This effect balances the competitive adsorption between HMF and OHand results in the best catalytic performance. Further, the potential interference of Ni Foam substrates for the catalytic performance were excluded. The bare Ni Foam exhibits poor HM-FOR performance (Figure S24, Supporting Information), furthermore, the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> grown on carbon cloth (Figure S25, Supporting Information) or on Ni Foam showed similar trends in surface reconstruction behavior (Figure S26 and S27, Supporting Information) and performance (Figure S28, Supporting Information). The catalytic performance of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 was better than those of most reported catalysts, as evidenced by its larger current density at the same potential and lower overpotential at the same current density (Figure 3c). [3b,8a,c,14] To investigate the behavior of interfacial electrons, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) spectra of the catalysts were measured. The Nyquist plot of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 exhibited the smallestdiameter semicircle among those of the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n catalysts, implying the fastest charge transfer (Figure S29, Supporting Information).  $^{[15]}$  Ni $_3$ S $_2$ /NiO $_x$ -15 having the largest double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl} = 72.2 \text{ mF cm}^{-2}$ ) also indicated that it had the most exposed catalytically active sites (Figure S30, Supporting Information).[16]

The selectivity for HMFOR over the OER is another important issue because the latter is the predominant potential side reaction in alkaline electrolytes. The potential demand at the same current density was significantly reduced after adding 20 mm HMF to 1 m KOH ( $\Delta E = 295$  mV at j = 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure S31, Supporting Information), implying that HMFOR on Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 was more favorable than the OER.<sup>[17]</sup> To assess the HMFOR and OER selectivity more accurately, organic products and

**Figure 3.** Electrochemical tests of as-prepared Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts for HMF oxidation. a) LSV curves of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* and pristine Ni3S2 in 1 m KOH containing 20 mm HMF. b) Comparison of the current densities (*j*) at 1.5 V vs RHE and Tafel slopes of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* and pristine Ni3S2. c) Comparison of the performance of Ni3S2/NiOx-15 with those of previously reported electrocatalysts. d) Faradaic efficiencies (FEs) of organic products and O2 generated on Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15, pristine Ni3S2, and NiO. e) Current density of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 and FEs of the products during chronoamperometry measurements for over 100 h.

O2 were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography, respectively. Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 and pristine Ni3S2 exhibited higher HMFOR selectivity at all potentials than NiO and achieved nearly 100% HMFOR selectivity at 1.3–1.55 V (Figure 3d). Notably, although 1.55 V was within the working potential of the OER (*j* OER at 1.55 V = 28 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, Figure S31, Supporting Information), HMFOR still occurred almost quantitatively on Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15. This confirms the strong adsorption of HMF on Ni3S2 and weakened contact of excess OH<sup>−</sup> with the electrode. In addition, because the coexisting – OH and –CHO groups in HMF can be oxidized (Figure S32, Supporting Information), several potential oxidation products (e.g., 2,5-Furandicarbaldehyde, 5-Formylfuran-2-carboxylic acid,

5-Hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid, and FDCA) can be generated during HMFOR.[4a,18] Therefore, HPLC was used to quantify the concentration of all organic products and evaluate the selectivity for FDCA (Figure S33, Supporting Information).[19] Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 exhibited extremely high selectivity for FDCA, as evidenced by the almost complete conversion of HMF into FDCA with minimal intermediate products during HMFOR at 1.5 V and the high Faradaic efficiency of FDCA (up to 98%) (Figure S34, Supporting Information).

To evaluate the stability of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 during HMFOR, chronoamperometry was performed at *E* = 1.5 V, during which the HMF concentration in the electrolyte is always maintained over 15 mM by replenishing the HMF or changing the electrolyte,

the specific description can be found in Supporting Information. The current density and Faradaic efficiency remained almost constant throughout 20 consecutive cycles for over 100 h (Figure 3e), indicating the excellent stability of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15. In addition, XRD pattern, SEM image, and XPS spectrum of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 after the stability test were approximately the same as those of unused Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 (Figure S36–S38, Supporting Information). The HR-TEM image of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 after the operation was also the same as that of the unused one, showing that the crystalline regions alternated with the amorphous regions and Ni3S2 remained intact (Figure S39, Supporting Information). These results prove that the Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 catalyst has extraordinary durability and stability and that the Ni3S2 on the catalyst surface is not easily reconstructed into Ni-based (hydr)oxides.

#### **2.3. Exploration of the Catalytic Mechanism**

The well-designed Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 electrode exhibited excellent catalytic activity, product selectivity, and stability in HMFOR. Subsequently, we systematically investigated the mechanism of the Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts and explored the reasons for the excellent performance of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15. To determine the origin of the activity and understand the catalytic mechanism, identifying the active species is necessary. Its valence state was determined by monitoring the open-circuit potential vs time (OCPT) after oxidizing the Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 working electrode at 1.5 V vs RHE in 1 m KOH. The open-circuit potential (*E*OCP) of the oxidized Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 was initially 1.32 V vs RHE, corresponding to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (**Figure 4**a). This implies that the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species was derived from the Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 surface after oxidation at 1.5 V.[20] Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> could not react with KOH, as indicated by the long time it took (up to 7000 s) for it to revert to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> (*E*OCP = −0.81 V) in pure 1 m KOH (blue line). However, in the presence of HMF, Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> was rapidly reduced to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> within 200 s (red and green lines, respectively). This result shows that HMF undergoes a rapid and spontaneous redox reaction with Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> + HMF → Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> + HMFox), implying that electro-generated Ni3<sup>+</sup> may be the key active species in HMFOR. Potential-dependent operando Raman spectra were further analyzed to determine the composition of the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species and reveal the reaction process (Figure S40, Supporting Information). Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 was initially used as the working electrode, and the surface changes at different potentials in 1 m KOH were monitored. At a potential of 1.35 V, two peaks, corresponding to the Ni─O vibration of NiOOH,[21] began to appear at 477 and 533 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure 4b), implying that the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species in the OCPT measurements was NiOOH. However, when 20 mm HMF was added to 1 m KOH (i.e., HMFOR process), these peaks were not observed until the potential exceeded 1.65 V, implying that the electro-generated NiOOH was rapidly consumed by HMF in a spontaneous reaction. This demonstrates that NiOOH is the active species for HMFOR.[22] When the potential exceeded 1.65 V, the NiOOH signal was monitored again because the limited amount of adsorbed HMF could not completely consume NiOOH. This triggered the OER, which was consistent with the detection of O2 at 1.65 V (Figure 3d). The NiOcatalyzed HMFOR was also monitored by operando Raman spectroscopy. The NiOOH signal appeared 100 mV earlier than that for Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 at 1.55 V (third image, Figure 4b), indicating that there was insufficient HMF to react with NiOOH owing to its weak adsorption on NiO. This explains the poor selectivity of NiO for HMF.

Based on these results, we propose the following mechanism of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-catalyzed HMFOR. First, NiO*<sup>x</sup>* on the catalyst surface is electro-oxidized to NiOOH by OH<sup>−</sup> (step 1, NiO + OH<sup>−</sup> → NiOOH + e<sup>−</sup>). Subsequently, NiOOH spontaneously oxidizes HMF to FDCA and is simultaneously reduced back to NiO*<sup>x</sup>* (step 2, 6NiOOH + HMF → 6NiO + FDCA + 4 H2O), the specific reaction routes were suggested in Figure S31 and Note S4 (Supporting Information). Therefore, to achieve high catalytic performance, the catalyst surface must meet the following requirements: 1) a suitable amount of NiO*<sup>x</sup>* to generate the NiOOH active species, and 2) a suitable amount of Ni3S2 to enhance HMF adsorption, which will prevent NiOOH from inducing the OER.

The ratio of Ni3S2 to NiO*<sup>x</sup>* of the catalyst surface is therefore the key factor affecting catalytic performance because it regulates the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>. Accordingly, the adsorption of these two substrates on the Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts was investigated. The open-circuit potentials (OCPs) of the catalysts in 1 m KOH were measured, and the difference between the OCPs with and without HMF (Δ*E*OCP) was used as an indicator of the adsorption strength of HMF on the catalyst.[5a,23] Pristine Ni3S2 exhibited almost the highest Δ*E*OCP (197 mV) (Figure 4c), implying the strongest adsorption of HMF. From Ni3S2/NiO*x*-30 to Ni3S2/NiO*x*-0, Δ*E*OCP gradually decreased, indicating the gradual weakening of the adsorption of HMF. Taken together with the change in the catalyst surface composition (Figure 2f,g), these results show the evident correlation between HMF adsorption on Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* and the Ni3S2 content of the surface: the higher the Ni3S2 content, the stronger the adsorption of HMF. Ni3S2/NiOx-15 also exhibited a substantial Δ*E*OCP of 158 mV albeit not as high as those of pristine Ni3S2 and Ni3S2/NiO*x*-30 (204 mV), indicating that the adsorption of HMF was still strong. In situ attenuated total reflectance surface-enhanced infrared adsorption spectroscopy (ATR-SERAS) was performed to evaluate the adsorption behavior of catalysts for HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>. As shown in Figure 4d, the NiO exhibits strongest adsorption for OH<sup>−</sup> (H2O) as evidenced by the highest O–H vibration peak intensity in the range of 3100–3500 cm<sup>−</sup>1, meanwhile, the adsorption of HMF for NiO is weakest as confirmed by the lowest intensity for C≐O bond of HMF (located at ≈1660 cm<sup>−</sup>1).[5b] In sharp contrast to NiO, Ni3S2 exhibits the lowest intensity of O─H vibration peaks and the strongest intensity of C≐O bond with redshifts to ≈1644 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> indicting that Ni3S2 is weakly adsorbed to OH<sup>−</sup> and strongly adsorbed to HMF. Excitingly, Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 showed moderate adsorption capacity for both HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>, and was able to balance the competing adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup> on the catalyst surface. Static contact angle tests were employed to further evaluate the affinity of the all Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts for HMF and OH<sup>−</sup>. Pristine Ni3S2 had the strongest affinity for HMF (19°) and the weakest affinity for OH<sup>−</sup> (85°) (Figure 4e). Although there would be sufficient HMF molecules for HMFOR, the supply of OH<sup>−</sup> for the conversion of HMF into FDCA would be inadequate, leading to reduced HMFOR activity. In contrast to pristine Ni3S2, NiO had the strongest affinity for OH<sup>−</sup> (25°) and the weakest affinity for HMF (75°). Although the amount of OH<sup>−</sup> would be sufficient and the NiOOH active species would be generated, the weak adsorption of HMF would lead to severe OER and hinder

vww advmat de

1521495, 2023, 45, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/adata.202304133 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** Identification of active species and balancing of competitive adsorption. a) Open-circuit potential vs time curves of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 in 1 m KOH with and without 20 mm HMF. b) Potential-dependent operando Raman spectra of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 in 1 m KOH with and without 20 mm HMF and NiO in 1 m KOH with 20 mm HMF. c) Open-circuit potentials of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n, pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, and NiO in 1 m KOH with and without 20 mm HMF. d) In situ ATR-SEIRAS spectra over Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15, pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> and NiO catalysts in 1 m KOH with 20 mm HMF at 1.35 V<sub>RHE</sub> and 1.4 V<sub>RHE</sub>. e) Static contact angles of Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-n, pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>, and NiO in the presence of HMF and KOH.

HMFOR. Consistent with the OCP results (Figure 4c), the affinity for HMF gradually increased from Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-0 to Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-30 owing to the increase in the Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> content of the catalyst surface. At the same time, the affinity for OH<sup>-</sup> gradually decreased owing to the decrease in NiO<sub>x</sub> content. Based on the above analysis, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/NiO<sub>x</sub>-15 exhibited the highest HMFOR performance because of its ability to balance the competitive adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>-</sup>, which coordinated the generation of active species and supply of reactants.

Considering the large amount of  $SO_4^{2-}$  on the  $Ni_3S_2/NiO_x$ -n surface (Figure 2f) and the  $SO_4^{2-}$  can be stably exist during HM-

FOR process (**Figure 5**a), the effect of  $SO_4^{2-}$  on HMFOR was also investigated. Because the generation of the NiOOH active species is the rate-determining step of HMFOR, we focused on the effect of  $SO_4^{2-}$  on the oxidation of  $NiO_x$  to form NiOOH. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves in the pseudocapacitive region in 1 M KOH containing different  $K_2SO_4$  concentrations were first measured to study the redox properties of NiO, which was used as the working electrode to represent  $NiO_x$ . The increased pseudocapacitance and reduced onset oxidation potential suggested that  $SO_4^{2-}$  promoted the oxidation of NiO to NiOOH (Figure 5b), resulting in increased HMFOR activity (Figure S41, Supporting

**Figure 5.** Effect of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> on HMFOR. a) Time-dependent operando Raman spectra of Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 in 1 m KOH with 20 mm HMF electrolyte. b) CV curves of NiO in 1 m KOH containing different K2SO4 concentrations. c) Bode plots of NiO in 1 m KOH with and without 30 mm K2SO4. d) operando Raman spectra of NiO in 1 m KOH with or without 0.1 m K2SO4 electrolyte. e) Free energies for the generation of NiOOH from NiO and NiO–SO4, and the corresponding optimized structures. f) Densities of states of Ni 3d orbitals in NiO and NiO–SO4. The gray, red, yellow, and white balls represent nickel, oxygen, sulfur, and hydrogen atoms, respectively.

Information).[24] Furthermore, operando EIS was employed to study the potential-dependent reaction interface in 1 m KOH with and without 30 mm K2SO4 (Figure S42, Supporting Information). Two semicircular arcs and two peaks were observed in the Nyquist and Bode plots, respectively. According to the classic mechanism of the OER, the high-frequency region is associated with electrode (NiO) oxidation, and the low-frequency region with the interface reaction involving nonhomogeneous charge distribution at the electrode–electrolyte interface (i.e., OER).[22,25] The addition of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> significantly accelerated the oxidation of NiO, as evidenced by the reduced phase angles of the peaks in the high-frequency region when the potential reached 1.35 V (oxidation potential of NiO) (Figure 5c). A similar conclusion was drawn from the decreased diameter of the Nyquist semicircle (Figure S43, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the operando Raman spectra also confirm the SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> can promote the generation of NiOOH active species. As shown in Figure 5d, larger peaks attributed to NiOOH (in the orange region) can be found when the NiO electrode oxidized in 0.1 m K2SO4 contained 1 m KOH electrolyte. To further demonstrate the promotive effect of SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> on the generation of NiOOH, DFT calculations were conducted. A model of SO4 adsorbed on a NiO (111) slab was constructed (denoted as NiO–SO4), in which SO4 is spontaneously adsorbed with an adsorption energy of −1.62 eV (Figure S44, Supporting Information). The free energy for the generation of NiOOH on NiO–SO4 was −1.47 eV (Figure 5e), which was 0.15 eV more negative than that on bare NiO, indicating that SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> promotes the formation of NiOOH by lowering the energy barrier. The partial densities of states of NiO and NiO–SO4 were also calculated. The d-band center (ɛd) of NiO– SO4 (−1.91 eV) was closer to the Fermi level than that of bare NiO (Figure 5f), implying stronger bonding with the reaction intermediates. Thus, it can be concluded from both experimental and theoretical evidence that surface-adsorbed SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> promotes the oxidation of NiO*<sup>x</sup>* in Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* and accelerates the generation of NiOOH, which is beneficial for enhancing the HMFOR performance.

## **3. Conclusion**

Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalysts with controllable compositions and welldefined structures were prepared via a novel in situ controlled surface reconstruction strategy. Complementary experimental characterization and DFT calculations revealed that the ratio of Ni3S2 and NiOx in Ni3S2/NiO*x*-*n* catalyst can be effectively adjusted by controlling the degree of Ni3S2 surface reconstruction, thereby modulating the adsorption of HMF and OH<sup>−</sup> on the catalyst surface. Benefiting from the balanced competitive adsorption of these two substrates, Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 exhibited excellent HM-FOR performance with a current density of 366 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 1.5 V and Faradaic efficiency of 98% for FDCA, which exceed those of most of the reported catalysts. Ni3S2/NiO*x*-15 also overcame catalyst deactivation caused by uncontrolled surface reconstruction, which is usually encountered in Ni-based catalysts, and the

catalytic performance and structure remained highly stable for over 100 h of operation. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the SO4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> adsorbed on the electrode surface can promote the generation of the NiOOH active species and adsorption of intermediates in HMFOR, which favors further improvement of the catalytic performance. This work not only provides an efficient and highly stable catalyst for HMFOR that serves as a new inspiration for the design and synthesis of high-performance catalysts but also contributes to a deeper understanding of the HMFOR mechanism.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

D.X. and X.B. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported by BL13SSW Beamline and User Experiment Assist System of SSRF. The authors acknowledge the Prof. Lina Li (Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility) for her help in conducting the XAS measurements. This work was financially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2020YFA0710301), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21972078, 51972195, 21573135 and 51602179), the Shandong Provincial Natural Science Foundation (ZR2022QB134). Z.Y.W. acknowledges support from Shandong University Multidisciplinary Research and Innovation Team of Young Scholars (2020QNQT11), Qilu Young Scholar Program of Shandong University.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

5-hydroxymethylfurfural, competitive adsorption, controllable reconstruction, electrocatalysis, electrochemical biomass conversion

> Received: May 3, 2023 Revised: July 7, 2023 Published online: October 2, 2023

- [1] a) C. Xu, E. Paone, D. Rodríguez-Padrón, R. Luque, F. Mauriello, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 4273; b) H. Zhao, J. E. Holladay, H. Brown, Z. C. Zhang, *Science* **2007**, *316*, 1597; c) X. Bao, M. Liu, Z. Wang, D. Dai, P. Wang, H. Cheng, Y. Liu, Z. Zheng, Y. Dai, B. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1919.
- [2] a) B. You, N. Jiang, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 9913; b) X. Wang, X. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Tang, H. Zheng, P. Zhang, D. Gao, G. Che, Z. Wang, A. Guan, J.-F. Xiang, M. Tang, X. Dong, K. Li, H. Mao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 21837.

- [3] a) C. Liu, X.-R. Shi, K. Yue, P. Wang, K. Zhan, X. Wang, B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2211177; b) Y. Lu, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Zou, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. Li, N. He, J. Shi, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 19215.
- [4] a) Y. Lu, T. Liu, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Li, J. Chen, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007056; b) J. Hulva, M. Meier, R. Bliem, Z. Jakub, F. Kraushofer, M. Schmid, U. Diebold, C. Franchini, G. S. Parkinson, *Science* **2021**, *371*, 375; c) X. Bao, X. Lv, Z. Wang, M. Wang, M. Liu, D. Dai, L. Zheng, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, P. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Dai, Y. Fan, B. Huang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 37782.
- [5] a) P. Zhou, X. Lv, S. Tao, J. Wu, H. Wang, X. Wei, T. Wang, B. Zhou, Y. Lu, T. Frauenheim, X. Fu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204089; b) J. Wu, Z. Kong, Y. Li, Y. Lu, P. Zhou, H. Wang, L. Xu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 21518; c) Y. Lu, T. Liu, Y.-C. Huang, L. Zhou, Y. Li, W. Chen, L. Yang, B. Zhou, Y. Wu, Z. Kong, Z. Huang, Y. Li, C.-L. Dong, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 4242.
- [6] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C.-L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185.
- [7] a) Y. Song, W. Xie, Y. Song, H. Li, S. Li, S. Jiang, J. Y. Lee, M. Shao, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *312*, 121400; b) B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2016**, *138*, 13639.
- [8] a) R. Luo, Y. Li, L. Xing, N. Wang, R. Zhong, Z. Qian, C. Du, G. Yin, Y. Wang, L. Du, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *311*, 121357; b) S. Yang, Y. Guo, Y. Zhao, L. Zhang, H. Shen, J. Wang, J. Li, C. Wu, W. Wang, Y. Cao, S. Zhuo, Q. Zhang, H. Zhang, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2201306; c) N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 15895.
- [9] W. Chen, Y. Liu, Y. Li, J. Sun, Y. Qiu, C. Liu, G. Zhou, Y. Cui, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 7588.
- [10] Y. Shi, W. Du, W. Zhou, C. Wang, S. Lu, S. Lu, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 22470.
- [11] a) Q. Wen, Y. Lin, Y. Yang, R. Gao, N. Ouyang, D. Ding, Y. Liu, T. Zhai, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 9572; b) H. Li, Y. Gao, Y. Wu, C. Liu, C. Cheng, F. Chen, Y. Shi, B. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 19456.
- [12] a) Y.-Q. Zhu, H. Zhou, J. Dong, S.-M. Xu, M. Xu, L. Zheng, Q. Xu, L. Ma, Z. Li, M. Shao, H. Duan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *135*, e202219048; b) X. Li, H.-Y. Wang, H. Yang, W. Cai, S. Liu, B. Liu, *Small Methods* **2018**, *2*, 1700395; c) R. Ge, Y. Wang, Z. Li, M. Xu, S.-M. Xu, H. Zhou, K. Li, F. Chen, J. Zhou, H. Duan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202200211.
- [13] a) C. Feng, Z. Zhang, D. Wang, Y. Kong, J. Wei, R. Wang, P. Ma, H. Li, Z. Geng, M. Zuo, J. Bao, S. Zhou, J. Zeng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 9271; b) S. Anantharaj, S. Noda, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2021**, *6*, 1607; c) Q. Wang, C.-Q. Xu, W. Liu, S.-F. Huang, H. B. Yang, J. Gao, W. Cai, H. M. Chen, J. Li, B. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4246.
- [14] a) W. Chen, Y. Wang, B. Wu, J. Shi, Y. Li, L. Xu, C. Xie, W. Zhou, Y.-C. Huang, T. Wang, S. Du, M. Song, D. Wang, C. Chen, J. Zheng, J. Liu, C.-L. Dong, Y. Zou, J. Chen, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2105320; b) G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455; c) W.-J. Liu, L. Dang, Z. Xu, H.-Q. Yu, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5533; d) X. Huang, J. Song, M. Hua, Z. Xie, S. Liu, T. Wu, G. Yang, B. Han, *Green Chem.* **2020**, *22*, 843; e) J. Zhang, W. Gong, H. Yin, D. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, G. Wang, H. Zhao, *ChemSusChem* **2021**, *14*, 2935; f) X. Lu, K.-H. Wu, B. Zhang, J. Chen, F. Li, B.-J. Su, P. Yan, J.-M. Chen, W. Qi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 14528; g) C. Chen, Z. Zhou, J. Liu, B. Zhu, H. Hu, Y. Yang, G. Chen, M. Gao, J. Zhang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *307*, 121209; h) S. Barwe, J. Weidner, S. Cychy, D. M. Morales, S. Dieckhöfer, D. Hiltrop, J. Masa, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 11460; i) Z. Yang, B. Zhang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *330*, 122590.

### **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

- [15] a) D. Xiao, X. Bao, M. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Wang, Y. Gao, Z. Zheng, P. Wang, H. Cheng, Y. Liu, Y. Dai, B. Huang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *452*, 139358; b) G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, C. Tian, A. Wu, Y. Wang, H. Fu, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3125; c) D. Gao, O. A. Moses, B. Sheng, S. Chen, H. Pan, L. Wu, H. Shou, W. Xu, D. Li, L. Zheng, S. Chu, C. Hu, D. Liu, S. Wei, X. Zheng, Z. Qi, X. Wu, J. Zhang, L. Song, *Sci. Bull.* **2021**, *66*, 667.
- [16] C. Chen, Y. Wang, C. Nie, J. Shen, Z. Wei, S. Zou, X. Su, R. Fan, Y. Peng, M. Shen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *12*, 2102865.
- [17] L. Gao, Z. Liu, J. Ma, L. Zhong, Z. Song, J. Xu, S. Gan, D. Han, L. Niu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2020**, *261*, 118235.
- [18] Y. Lu, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Zou, Y. Liu, Y. Li, N. Zhang, W. Chen, L. Zhou, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Sci. China Chem.* **2020**, *63*, 980.
- [19] B. Zhou, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, N. Zhang, Y. Wu, Y. Lu, X. Yue, Z. Xiao, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *61*, 179.

- [20] P. Zhang, X. Sheng, X. Chen, Z. Fang, J. Jiang, M. Wang, F. Li, L. Fan, Y. Ren, B. Zhang, B. J. J. Timmer, M. S. G. Ahlquist, L. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 9155.
- [21] a) Y. Huang, X. Chong, C. Liu, Y. Liang, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 13163; b) Y. Sun, H. Shin, F. Wang, B. Tian, C.-W. Chiang, S. Liu, X. Li, Y. Wang, L. Tang, W. A. Goddard III, M. Ding, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 15185.
- [22] W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Xiao, Z. Wei, S. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. Ma, S. Wang, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 2974.
- [23] N. Heidary, N. Kornienko, *Chem. Sci.* **2020**, *11*, 1798.
- [24] a) T. Wu, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, Y. Du, B. Chen, W. A. Sasangka, H. Liao, C. L. Gan, G. G. Scherer, L. Zeng, H. Wang, H. Li, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 763; b) J. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1808167.
- [25] B. Zhou, Y. Li, Y. Zou, W. Chen, W. Zhou, M. Song, Y. Wu, Y. Lu, J. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22908.